A SA IIOtfAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 7 OHN F F.N NO, No. 69, HIG H-STREF.T, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 100, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, April ii, 1792.
PHILADELPHIA
THE ChiefsoftheFive Nations, last Monday week, met the Go
vernor in the Council-Chamber, to return a lormal answer to
his address, delivered to them, in the lame place, on the 28th ult.
SAGOYEWATHA, or RED JACKET, firft addrellcd his
Excellency, as follows :
Brother Onas * Governor,
OPEN unprejudiced ears to what we have to fay. Some days
since you addreiled us, and what you said gave us great pleasure. ,
This day, the Great Spirit has allowed us to meet you again in
this Council-Chamber. We hope that vour not receiving an im- .
mediate answer to your address, will make no improper impres
sion upon your mind.
We mention this, left vou should fufpeft, that your kind wel
come and friendly address, has not had a proper effett upon our
hearts. We allure vou it is far otherwifc.
Brother, Onas Governor,
In your address to us the other day, in this ancient Council
chamber, where our forefaiheis have often converl'ed together, se
veral things (truck our attention very forcibly. When vou told
us this was the place in which our forefathers often melon peace
able terms, it gave us sensible pleasure and more joy than we couh
express.
Brother, Onus Governor,
Though we have not writings like you ; vet we remember of
ten to have heard of the friendfhip that existed between our fore
fathers and yours. The pi&ure to which you drew our atten
tion + brought frefh to our minds the friendly conferences that
used to be held between the former Governors of Pennsylvania,
and our Tribes, and (hewed the love which your forefathers
had of peace, and the friendly disposition of our people. It
>s ftillour wish, as well as yours, to prefcrve peace between our
Tribes and you, and it would be well if the fame spirit existed a
mong the Indians to the Westward, and through every part of
the United States.
Brother, OrtAs Governor^
You particularly exprefTed, that you were wrll p'eafed to find,
that we differed in disposition from the Indians Wellward. Your
difpofitioo is that for which the ancient Onas Governors were re
markable. As you love peace, (o do w» also ; and we wifa it
could be extended to the mod distant parts of this great country.
Brother, Onas Governor,
We agreed in council this morning, that the Tenements I have
exprefled, should be communicated to you, before the delegates
of the Five Nations, and to tell you. that your cordial welcome to
this city, and the good sentiments contained in your address, have
made a deep impreflion on our hearts, have given us great joy,
and from the heart I tell von so. This is all I have to fay.
AGWELONDONGWAS, or GOOD PETER, next addres
sed the Governor.
He fuft congratulated the delegates of the Five Nations upon
so happy and friendly a meeting, and on having so good an op
portunity of (hewing their peaceable disposition, and ot answer
ing the Governor's friendly address, which had given them io
much pleasure ; then turning to the Governor he began :
Brother, Or.as Governor,
I rake part in the joy you feel, in meeting your brothers of the
Five Nations at this day on such peaceable terms, and I rejoice
with my brethren of the Five Nations, on the fame account. This
meeting brought to my rccolleftion the days when our forefathers
were united as brethren.
Brother, Onas Governor t
Lei me tell you how much I wifli, that the hearty friendftiip
■which subsisted between our forefathers ftiould fubfiil equally be
tween their children. What is there more desirable than that we,
who live within hearing of each other, should unite tor the com
mon good. This is my wifti. It is the wtfli of my nation, al
though I am sorry I can't fay, of every individual in it ; tor there
are differences of opinion among us, as well as among our white
brethren.
Brother, Onas Governor,
Your country is happy. It has a complete and firm govern
ment, whose peace is secured, and where all obey your voice.
We are in a different fituction. Our government is not eftablifh
«d like yours, and though many attend to the voice of our coun
cils, yet some don't, especially the young men. They fometimcs,
however, alio do hear us.
Brother, Onas Governor,
I have been long acquainted with some cufloms, and in a de
gree with the natuie of your governments, and especially with
n £ ovrmrn ent of this State, and of the difficulties you had in
cibblifhing it ; and I with you to remember, that your forefa
thers laboured much, notwithstanding ihofe difficulties, to live
10 T^ Ce us ' P rotc & us, notwithstanding our weaknesses.
Dc » Brother, Onas Governor, that we shall derive some
a ting benefit from this visit to your city, and carry home with
an imprcfiion on our minds, that will make us keep Onas in
mmd. This is ail I ftiall fay.
' he Governor t'nen delivered the following reply :
Brother s,
You have spoken the language of friendfhip and peace.
rejoice to find that our sentiments, upon the piefent occasion,
arr rtiuch alike; for I am persuaded, that the happiness of your
nations, us well as of the United States, will be bell promoted b.y
a mutual regard, and the liberal exchange of good offices.
I hope, ind-ed, that, when the other Indian Nations behold
the drifts of the harmony cftaWifhed between us, they will cn
C » V ° r l ° °^ ta ' n *he fame blcflings, bv treading in the fame path.
Titles giren to Governors of Pennsylvania.
+ A copy of the well known print of Penn's treaty with the Indians,
fainted hy a young artifi in this, city, with which they were much pleajed
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THF. UNITED STATES.
COMMON SENSE,
f To the rARMFRS simds Greeting.
I ""HE holders ot the .blic debt arc held up to view in various
A oair u: lights. \ hey are caPed harpies,cheats, robbers, &c.
It in pri- :te life • y ar" really bad men, they will be despised js
bad men alw~ iarc. If they have done any thing against law,
the law «.«• ~jjrn to punifli thein. There ar? charges against them
as eli v 1 .in?.l men, more proper for a grand jury than a newspa
per. T hole who have any thing to do with them, will look to
their pnncipjes ot moral conduct. The public has nothing to do
"i the affair of their private chara&ers but the rage of those who
<2 i them such hard names, carries them to other assertions. It is
pretended that every other order ot men has fuffered in propor
tion as thefajjmcn have profiled by the funding fyftern. To give
a food colof? to thf.r auger, anil to gain adherents, they affett to
ie*l conteine-d for the injury fuffeied by tbe landed inter eft.—ls
there anv ground for faying that the landed interest has fuffered
by the funding ast ?
The price of land has rifcn in consequence of that act. The
great increase of a&ive property has promoted foreign trade, <o
that the market for the produce of the land in foreign countries,
is induftriouflv fought out and supplied. It is not only easier tor
a farmer to fell his land than formerly, but it is alio less difficult
to borrow money to pay off legacies, or to make improvements.
Canals also, and roads, and schools, and innumerable advantages
to the country in general, and many of them peculiarly and emi
nen'ly beneficial to jhe farmers, are set on foot, which would
not have been (o much as thought of, had not the means ol fun
plying such expences been increased by converting the public
debt to such a6tively ufetul purposes. By these means, as well as
by the spirit of the farmers themselves, the landed interest is
growing in wealth and importance more rapidly than any in the
United States. The increase of this most valuable order of men,
in point of numbers, exceeds all the other orders of society put
together; for all our new settlements are wholly compoled of
farmers. And yet this is the class of men who are internperately
told in every paper, that they are fuffering and finking in conse
quence of the taxes, to pamper up the certificate men.
It will be said, the public debt is a public burden, and it falls
on the farmers. True, it falls on all consumers of foreign arti
cles. It is a burden—but is the burden increased by funding ihe
debt? Take the answer from matter of fact. Before the debt
was funded, heavy direst taxes were paid, and yet :ts credit funk
to almost nothing. It did not answer as money. Since the new
government funded the debt, it has been railed above par with
cash ; and the taxes have been scarcely felt, and not felt at all to
the oppreflion of any body.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ODE to CHARITY.
HATL, Spirit of Heav'n, tail !
Well do I know thy seraph form,
Descending from the realms of light :
The foul-enlivening grace !
That well the torpid heart might warm,
Spread o'er thy lovely face :
Thine eye with sweet companion bright;
Hail, Spiiit of Heav'n, hail !
When firft descended from the sacred throne,
The Jlar of piety to walk the earth ;
To clasp round purer hearts her blazing zone,
And warm the mind into a heav'nly birth :
Her daughter thou, where'er thefpirit turn'd,
Gave thy sweet temper to the generous foul ;
Whose breast with piety since then hath burn'd,
Feels god-like Charity pervade the whole.
Hail, Spirit of Heav'n, hail!
Warm'd by thy melting breath,
Benignant How a r d fought the dreary jail,
To snatch the fufferer from the g r asp death.
Mov'd by thy impulse, where the ghastly crew,
F.'er-gnawing famine, flaring horror dwell,
And peftilenceof ever-fick'ning hue,
Her fateful breath around her blew;
He smiling trod nor fear'd those fiends of hell.
When thy life-giving light
Beam'd thro' the big round tear
That started from his pitying eye !
The wretch whose hopeless fight,
Beheld 'till then, flafii thio' the dungeon's night,
Nought save convulsed figures ol despair;
Felt his heart beat with new-born joy :
Such his unutterable extacy,
As fill'd the foul of him whose eye,
'Till manhood's prime, was wrap'd with clouds around,
And now his fight full found,
Now firft beheld the world, and the bright blazing wonders
of !
Thou pour'd'ft thy music from his tongue;
And as of old, when to the fiend of hell,
Immortal Orpheus brearh'd his melting song.
The curjcr's madness fell;
While fix'd in death-like filcnce all around,
Furies forgot their rage, and lift'ned to the found :
So when to tyrant Kings he spoke
The just complaint of fubjefts griev'd,
By laws which cruelty had form'd ;
Thev felt their iron fouls with pity warm'd,
Their frames, for once, with anguifti shook;
They wifh'd, they crav'd to be relirv'd
From fccnes, which starting to their view,
Of tortur'd wretches piere'd their bosoms through.
The lifl'ning Angels, leaning from the sky,
To hear him urge ihe melting tale,
Accordant breath'd a pitying ftgh,
That flew to earth, borne on a heav'nly gale.
Sound high with one accord, they fatd,
The warbling flute, the (weeping lyre ;
Let (acred fame to him be giv'n,
Who fill'd with Charity from Heav'n ;
To raise a hopeless brother's head,
To flop the fountains of despair,
Explores the gloomy dungeon's (Vade,
Where death and lamine (talk around
The wretch condemn'd to fetters on the ground.
And pierce him thro' with p?*ns 'till tortui d Hie expire.
Too great —too good to live below !
O ! may he soon our high-born rapture know ;
To Heav'n be call'd where from our Angel tongues
Cel'ftial music falls, and varying flows in our melodious song!
A!i ! soon —too soon for man tne pray'r wai heard !
God spake the final word ;
The moital (aw the beck'ning hand,
And mounted into Heav'n at God's command.
Hail, Spirit of Heav'n, hail!
Tho' call'd from earth's deep night,
li;to the boundless realms of living light,
The tendereft, noblest fori!
O ! bid thy power fttll prevail,
Still, dill diffufe ihy spirit o'er
The human foul, from where the fun
Bums in the East, to where he gilds the (urge
Thatdafhing foams along th-- wcltern Ihore.
397
111. LIN'
[Whole No.
LONDO N, February 9.
ACCORDING to the preliminary articles of rtie
treaty (igned at JafTy on the 19th ult. be
tween Ruflia and the i 'one, €t the Empress of
Russia keeps all the territory between the Bog
and the Dniester, conformable to theconvennon
(igned at Galacz, the 12th of Augtift* 1791* fcbe
restores to the Porte Wallachia, which is to be
governed in the fame manner it was before the
declaration of war.
" The Porte cedes rn Ruflia a certain diftricftof
country on the fide of Caucasus.
" The prisoners taken in the war, of what na
tion soever, are to be liberated without ranfoni.
" The navigation of the Dneiiter is to be free
for all nations.
" Russia renounces the demand of 12,000,000
of piastres for damage during the war ; and the
Ruffian armies are to evacuate all the Turkish
territories by the end of May."
' We learn from Ceutathac Don J. Barcela, our
interpreter, has been nuirthered by the Gover
nor of Tetuan, under the fan<ftion of a fl;lg of
peace. Don Barcela repaired to the cam]) before
Ceuta, when the Governor of Tetuan perceiving,
him, without aliening any reason tor the at!t,
(hot him with a pillol. Don Barcela, who was
on liorfeback, fell immediately. His head was
sent by the Governor to the King of Morocco,
which proves that he was aflaflinated by the or
ders of that monarch.
His Royal Highness the Prince of Walts, the
patron of ingenuity and ta!le, was about t-vvo yearn
fir.cethe purchaferof a fnuff-boxthosornamented
and contrived :—lt was a double box opening on
both fides, with rims of gold. On one fide, a
splendid medallion appeared in the centre, round
which was a row of large pearls. When this fide
of the box was placed upwards upon the table,
the medallion upon a very flight preH'ui fcopened,
and an artificial goldfinch, executed in gold anil
coloured, so as to have a very near resemblance
to nature, sprung up. 'I he bird picked its wings,
hopped round the little circle allotted it, and,
for about two minutes, chirped the few notes
making the morning song of the goldfinch, lc
then parted into a delightful air of Haydn's, and
gave it so well, that the notes night have been
lillened to for their found, as well as for the cu
riosity of their production. So ended its perfor
mance and its appearance
A thousand guineas was the reward given by
he Prince to the mechanist of this admirable
fnuff-box.
The following hint, of importance to owners
and occupiers of lands, is given by Mr. Leyburn,
jun. of Hunmanby. This gentleman fays, that
in order to prevent manure finking too Jeep in
low and springy meadow or palture land,a I ufHci
ent quantity of the strongest lime that can be got,
should be laid on it ; that he has used Knotting
ley lime wit h great fnccefs ; the quantity not less
than 6 chaldrons to a statute acre, to be laid on
in the winter season. In 12 or ij months after,
by pntting a spade into the ground, it will be
found that the lime will be formed into a solid
body, which will prevent manure finking any
•lower than the lime, and consequently the lands
will receive benefit so long as the manure will
lalt. The lime should be laid in heaps til] it be
very wet, before it be put on the land.
The Ihip Grange, arrived at Liverpool from
Philadelphia, has brought over no less than 300
tierces of apples of that country.
A Mr. Swan, a gentleman of fortune in North
amptonlhire, hopp'd one hundred and twenty
yaids in a minute, for a wager of five hundred
pounds, which with difficulty he won. There is
lotne sense, ye Cits, in this kind of Swan bopping.
A very extraordinary legacy has lately been
left by the late Mr. George Tennant, carpenter,
of Bethnal Green, viz. twenty pounds a year,
which is to be expended for Jhav'tng a number of
the poor parilhioners on a Saturday night, by
two barbers in that parifli. The intention is to
facilitate the attendance of the lower class of
people at divine worship on a Sundaj.
Seventten thovfand pounds ! were loft by a noble
.it Brooks's lalt week. Such ruin, sure
itijd inevitable, attends the indulgence of sport
ing within this horrible vortex.
Conjugal Fidelity.—A female, wist to a man
sometime since transported to New South Wales
for robbing a bookseller, having the sum of one
thousand pound lately left her by a relation, has
engaged lierfelf as a paflenger to that fettleiiicnt.
-~o8."|
»/ jCONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
BOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY, March 8.
Debate on the resolution reported by ast left commit
tee—That the Secretary of the Treasury be diretf
edto report'his opinion to the House, on the befl
mode of raising thofi additional /applies vihich the
public fcrvice m*y require for the current year.
MR. PAGE—I (hall always vote against a mo
tion for applying to the Secretary of the
Treasury for information refpeifting the means
of procuring the sums of money neceflary for the
exigencies of government.
It is no argument to me to be told that the a<?t
which established the department, at the head of
which that ofiicer is placed, authorises that mo
tion. That aift may be plead as obligatory on
the Secretary to reply to such enquiry when made
by Congress, but not to induce this House to make
such enquiry. Whan that a<ft, which is now
urged in juftification of the motion before the
House, was under the confederation of the House
which formed it, I raised my feeble voice against
it—l endeavored to fltew that the powers given
to an ofiicer, who was appointed by the Preli
dent and Senate, and removeable by the Preli
dent alone, were such as were utterly incompa
tible with the principles of the constitution, and
perhaps with the letter of it, as that does not per
mit even the independent Senate, the represent
atives of the legislatures of the several states, to
originate a money bill. I remarked that if the
bill palled, it would verify the predictions ofthe
afiti-federalifts, as they were called, and would
Jilarm many friends of the new government —1
observed that the practice of the former Con
gress, which was adduced as a precedent for such
applications to the Secretary, for his statements
and reports, was not a cafe in point ; as the
Congress under the confederation was looked
upon as a mere diplomatic body, whofea&s were
reviled, approved or rejected by the Itate aflem
blies—which (hews that it was immaterial who
planned the schemes of finance, —whence infor
mation was derived, or who drew the atfls of the
then Congress ; as they were not, as the laws ol
the present Congress are, paramount to the laws
of all the dates.—l contended, Sir, that it was
the peculiar duty of this House, to originate mo
ney bills, and to devise ways and means, as they
are called—l am still moll decidedly of the fame
opinion ; and I think with the member from
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzfimons) that such a refer
ence to the Secretary of the Treasury, is a dere
liction of our duty, and an abandonment of the
trust reposed in us ; & that many other references
must have the appearance of an unbecoming in
dolence—l am also of opinion with the member
from Georgia, (Mr. Baldwin) that if ever we
make a stand, it should be on this ground.
I will add, that it is high time to make that
stand.—For a bill having palled which was op
posed as dangerous to the constitution, and ut
terly incompatible with the principles of a free
government, and indeed as inconlilfent with the
plain conftru<Ttion, and I may fay the very lat
ter of our own constitution ; and that bill be
ing now appealed to as a juftification of a moti
on which can be supported on no other princi
ples, but such as inay be used to subvert our go
vernment, and to introduce a monarchy, as un
limitted as that lately rvboliflied in France—for
surely if more wisdom can be found in a few
heads of departments, than in the whole repre
sentative body of the people—and if those heads
can be made responsible, whilst the representa
tives are free from responsibility, and dispatch
and energy can be obtained without theexpence
of a Congress, or of this House at least ; I fee not
why the people might not make a favorite Presi
dent as absolute as the kings of France have been
and call on Congress, like the Parliainentsof Pa
ris, only to register his edidts. 1 fay, as this is
the cafe, it is high time to make a stand But we
are told that the heads of departments are re
cognized by the constitution, and the business
now required of one of them sanctioned by law
and we are also told of precedents eftablilhing
and authorising this mode of proceeding—it is
f irely then high time for every member, who
views that law and such proceedings under it,
in the light 1 do, to join with the member from
Georgia, and make a stand, as he called it—And
I trust, Sir, that rather than fufFer that law to
be thus resorted to, they will unite to amend or
repeal it.
I repeat it, Sir, here we ihould make a (land ;
for however well intended such measures may
be, and the arguments in support of them, their
tendency is mischievous, ana ought to be opposed
by every friend to a free government.
The bills establishing the departments of go
vernment, have strong monarchical features ;
and have too often led Congrels into the steps
of monarchical governments. The republican
part of the Britiih government, rely on a com
mittee of ways and means—the heads of depart
ments being members of the House of Com
mons, are always forward to take the lead
in the plans or proje&s of the Crown—and
they have so ingeniously involved the plans
of finance, that few understand the myfterioos
business, and therefore it is in the minister's
hands alone.—Sir, the House of Commons always
severely scrutinize their plans, and are not foob-
I'equious to their minilters, as some gentlemen
are disposed to be to our Secretaries.
But what would Englishmen fay, if their Par
liament were to pais such a bill as this now re
ferred to ; and Ihould call on a man, not a mem
ber of either House, but appointed by the King,
with the advice indeed of the House of Lords,
removeable however by the King alone ; to lay
before the House of Commons a plan of ways
and means ? Would the people of England be
fatisfied with the strange story of his responsibi
lity ? And of his superior abilities ? But what is
this responsibility so much talked of ? The Pre
sident may dismiss the Secretary from his office,
or this House may impeach him—but when the
President and Congreis both are his accomplices,
who will dismiss or who impeach, and where then
is his responsibility ? And what is to become of
the people's rights, if this be the cafe, and this
House be not accountable to the people for its
adts ? as a member yesterday said.
But, Sir, I wi!l noc alk what Englishmen would
fay on such an occasion, I will tell you what
Americans have said—They have said, that un
der this boasted a<st, you might as well apply to
the President in the firft instance, as to any head
of department under him, were it not for their
virtue ; and that at the rate Congress have pro
ceeded in some cases, their rights are at the mer
cy of departments. But here we are asked, if
we have not wisdom enough to reje<ft an impro
per plan, how we could be fuppol'ed capable of
deviling a good one ?—To this, Sir, I fliall only
reply, that when we have done our best, welhall
have discharged our duty ; and our bills will at
lealt be fiamed according to our constitution—
and the doubting members may ask the opinion
of the Secretary, if they please. One member
endeavored to ridicule republican jealousy—l
thank God, although I am a republican, I know
where todiretfl my jealous attention ; and where
and when to repose confidence ; when to llrength
en government, and when to restrain it.
We were aiked indeed, are you afraid of truth,
and unwilling to receive inftruiSion ? I answer
no—Truth is our gl-eat object, and just informa
tion our only aim—but to get at truth, refpetS
ing the moll likely means of railing a revenue,
with as little inconvenience as poflible to our
ronftituents, was I conceive, a principal object
in the view of the framers of our constitution,
when they instituted this House of Representa
tives. In this House alone I should search for
truth, refpecfting this important queftion—from
the representatives of the states 1 (hould expecft
to receive all the necefl'ary information refpetft
ing it ; and if the Secretary be poffefled of vouch
ers or further information, the House should call
for it.—ln the committee of the whole, every en
quiry (hould be made—resolutions be proposed,
examined, amended, and when maturely consi
dered and approved by the House, where all the
further information which the heads of depart
ments can give may be called for, our bulinefs
would be done. 1 fay this is the way for Con
gress to get at information, and to arrive at truth
—but to apply in the firft instance to a single in
dividual, mult beimproper—to an individual cir
cumstanced as the heads of departments are ;
that is removeable by the President ; liable from
the infirmity of human nature, to local attach
ments, to imposition, even of ingenuity and good
sense ; 1 mean the imposition ot their own the
oretical reasoning, borrowed from writers on oo
vernments not altogether refemblingour own.
Whatever he should propose, would come witli
such advantages as to require much time, and
perhaps more penetration than this House could
readily command, to fee through and rejed:, if
improper—but some, I know, are of opinion that
a Secretary may venture to propose what no mem
ber would be hardy enough to mention—Some
have doubted whether the Funding Syitein, the
Afl'umption, or the Excise could have been intro
duced by any other means—lf this be true, and
these schemes be such as in the iflue of them (hall
be attended with happy consequences, so far as
we have gor.e, such applications to the Secretary
were right—but it is unmanly, and unbecoming
the representatives of freemen, to acl in this man
ner—to adopt measures which we dare not pro
pose, and to applaud them because they were
planned by this or that Secretary.—lt is ungene
398
rous to hold up a Secretary as responsible for er
rors adopted by Congress—and it is unreasonable
to impose upon Inn, a talk which, althoflirh our
peculiar duly to perform, we (brink from. The
multitude of references already made to the Se
cretary of the Treasury, and the necessary length
of route of hit reports, leave him no leisure to
attend properly to the different branches of his
own department.
But what information do we alk ? VVe know
the estimates of expences for the present year—
We have estimates of the probable amount of
the revenue—and we have called for a report of
the amount of furplufles, if any, in the treasury
We can theu, as well as the Secretary, determine
whether any additional revenue will be necelfo
ry ; and if so, we alone ought to devise the ways
and means of raising it. If dispatch is necellary
it is better to determine here at once what is to
be done, than to apply to the Secretary, w h o f e
plans we inay, after long debates, reject As to
the Secretary of the Treasury, 1 acknowledge
his abilities ; 1 know too that some of his reports
do honor to his heart, as well as to his head—
his gallant behaviour in the late war, has com
manded my highest refpedi and esteem—but I
owe too much refpecft to our cauntry to agree
to the resolution before you 1 wish, there
fore, that this House would refer only such
cases to him, as they cannot decide on without
official information in his hands—and chat in the
present cafe, the House would, in a committee
of the whole on the state of the Union, take un
der their consideration the means of raising the
supplies which may be found necellary for the
support of government, and protection of the
frontiers.
(to be continued.)
FRIDAY, April 6
The President's meflage, with the representa
tion bill returned to the House with objections
and the bill being read, —
On the motion.
" Will the Houfs, r>n rtconfidcration, agree to pass
the bill ?"—ic palled in the negative ; ayes, 28 ;
noes, 33.
AYES.
MefiVs. Ames, Benfon, S. Bourne, B. Bourne,
Clark, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue,
Gordon, Hartley, Jacobs, Kitchell, Kittera, Law
ranee, Learned, Livermore, Niles, Schoonmaker,
Sedgwick, J. Smith, I. Smith, Steele, Thatcher,
Tread well, Vining, Wadfworth, Ward—2B.
NOES.
Messrs. A(lie, Baldwin, Barnwell, Brown,
Findley, Giles, Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Heifter,
Hillhoufe, Huger, Key, Lee, Macon, Madison,
Mercer, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Page,
Parker, Seney, Sheredine, W. Smith, Sterrett,
Sturges, Sumpter, Tucker, Venable, White,
Williamfon, Willis— 33.
SATURDAY, April 7
The bill supplementary to the ad: for the e(la
blifhment and support of light-houses, beacons,
buoys, and public piers, was read twice, and ta
ken up by the committee of the whole; who, af
ter making one amendment, rose, and the chair
man reported the bill accordingly.
This amendment was moved by Mr. Parker—
which was to establish three floating beacons in
the Chefapeak.
The amendment beingagreed toby tlieHoufe,
the bill was read a third time and palled.
The bill to ere(st a liglit-houfe 011 Montuk
Point, in the (late of New-York, was read the
third time and palled.
The House receded from their amendment to
the bill for fixing the compensation of the Door
keepers of both Houses of Congress, disagreed to
by the Senate. .
A committee was appointed to prepare aiiu
bring in a bill for the apportionment of repre
sentatives among the several Hates, at the lat 10
of one representative for every persons.
A bill was brought in, which was read twice,
and made the order of the day on Monday next.
In committee of the whole on the repoit 0
the Secretary of the Treasury on the \V ays an
Means—the committee agreed to sundry relulu
tions, which being reported to the Houle, acom
mittee was appointed to bring in a bill.
Adjourned.
MONDAY, April 9,
A resolution for anthorifing the comniiffionc"
for fettling the accounts o£ the Unite
with tiie individual states, to liquidate a c
the state of Maryland, was taken into con 1 ,
tion, and agreed to, and a committee appo
to brine in a bill accordingly. „„„nr-
In committee of the whole on the 1 PJ*
tioning representatives among the fevera
&c. —Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair. 1(
The bill being read, Mr. Clark moved »W
the firft blank with 3?I ooo. Wh.te
30,000. After some debate, the 1 . s r jf.
33,000 being put, it was earned, 34 m
ill<v in the affirmative.The committee then rose and reported the bill
with one amendment. The House took this
amendment into conlideration—on the question
to agree to the lame, the ayes and noes being
demanded, are as follow :
Meflrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, S. Bourne,
B. Bourne, Bomlinot, Clark, Dayton, Fitzfimons,
Oilman, Goodhue, Gerry, Gordon, Gregg, Hart
ley, Heifter, Hillboofe, Huger, Jacobs, Kitchell,
Kittera, Learned, Liverm»re, Niles, Sedgwick,
J. Smith, I. Smith, W. Smith, Sturges, Sylvester,
Thatcher, Vining, Wadfworth, Ward— 34.
Meflrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown, Findley, Giles,
Gritfin, Grove, Key, lawrance, Lee, Macon,
Madison, Mercer, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray,
Page, Parker, Schoonmaker, Seney, Sheredine,
Steele. Sterrett, Suinpter, Treadwell, Tucker,
Venable, White, Williamfon, Willis—3o.
The blanks were then filled up, as follow
New-Hamplhire 4 Delaware
M attach u let rs 14 Maryland
Vermont
Rhode-liland
Connecticut
New-York
New-Terfey
Pennsylvania IJ
It was then ordered that the bill be engrofled
for a third reading to-morrow.
The bill for altering the times of holding the
Circuit Courts, &c. was taken into consideration ;
some amendments were agreed to, the bill read
the third time, and parted.
A Mefiage front the Senate, by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informed the House that the Senate have
agreed to the amendments of the House to the
bill providing for the eftablilhment and support
of light-houses, &c.
A communication from the Secretary ot War,
pursuant to orders from the Prelident of the
United States, was read, accompanied with vari
ous papers relative to the late expedition under
General St. Claire
In committee of thewholeon the bill toextend
the time heretofore granted for the payment of
duties on certain teas. —Mr. \V. Smith in the
chair.—The committee made no amendment to
the bill, and the House ordered that it be en
grofled for a third reading.
In committee.of the whole on the bill received
from the Senate, concerning Consuls and Vice-
Consuls.—Mr. B. Bourne in the chair.
The committee went through the discussion of
the bill, and made sundry amendments ; one of
which was to strike out the Bth feJtion—which
were reported to the House ;—the House took
the amendments into confederation, and adopted
the fame. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, April 10.
the bill concerning Consuls and Vice-Consuls—the bill
10 exieod the lime heretofore granted for the payment of the du
:rs on certain teas mported fmce 3a March, 1791— -and the new
Reprefentanoa bill.
Mr. F T.d,; . of the committee on the memorial of Henry Hill,
vcporvefl :r:at it would be proper to annex a provifionary clause to
the : M now pen: ng before the House, for the indemnification of
the estate of th- bae Mv. --General Greene—This report was re
ferred to the committee v* Ifee whole on the above bill.
A report read 1» Ac aietnorial of Moses Young, which
was n favor of thc ilwmonij. r ML
A b was read twice, tt> ctreft the fettletnent of a certain claim
of the ftaie at Maryland—and m*ie the order of the day to-mor
row.
la<amm>htee ofi(he«*holc,<ai the bill to indemnify the eflate
of tbe late Ifajot-Gcneoil Utalihuiiel Greene—Mr. Seney in the
ciaar— Oa -BMltwo of Jfrr. *. Beetee, the provifionary clause a
bo*e sKatHucd, was added lathe bill—Come other amendments
were added—■and rima the aim—lnrr rote, and the amendments
were remaned <• slfae House The Honfe took the fame imo
coafidcnuaa,a»d agreed U® (the*, except the proviso—several
other tmemdtaemt wece made, aad oa thequeftion for engrailing,
the rja were gy—anosg. A* follow,
Meflin. Atr% Baldwin, &*'owcil, Ben Ton, S. Bourne, B.
• ; •••in . '->• >, Gordon,
fifl, HartJey, Miner* Key, Kutrra, Lawrance, Learned,
Lee, Lcverroare, WLa' IC'.rccr, Muhlenberg, Murray, Page,
fihmrdliT. W. Smith, Sterrut, Thatcher, Ve-
Watfuwit, Willis 37.
MeiTjf. e, Bojomoc, Brown, Clark, Goodhue, Grove, Hill
r. Ole, J«, Kitchell, Macon, Moore, Niles, Schoonmaker,
•Vn-y, J. Smith, I. Smith, Steele, Sturgcs, Sumpter, Treadweli,
Ward, White, VTilliamfon— 23.
Mr. Bourne, of the committee of enrollment, reported that
they had examined tour bills, and found them duly enrolled.
A message was received from the Senate, informing the House
that they hdve pa (Ted the bill apportioning Representatives accord
ing to the firit enumeration.
Another message from the Senate informed the House that they
agree to the amendments of the House to the bill for altering the
the timet of holding the circuit Courts, See. also to the amend
ments to the bill concerning Consuls and Vice-Confuls.
The House took into consideration the amrndments of the Se
nate to the m litia bill—and agreed to the principal part; the con
sideration of two additional fc&ions proposed by the Senate was
postponed till to-morrow —and then the House adjourned.
HUDSON, March 2
On Saturday lad a number of gentlemen from
different parts of the country, met at the city ta
vern, agreeable to notification, in order to
into confideratiion the proposed plan for esta
blishing a bank in this city. The proposed con
futation was difeu fled with temper, and finally
adopted with very few alterations.
AYES
NOES
Virginia
Kentucky
North-Carolina
South-Carolina
Georgia
2
2
7
10
A T E S.
S O E S.
HALIFAX, January $.
ExtraEl of a letter fromGsnerat Bowles, to a gentle
man in this Town, dated Natfuu, New-Providence,
Juguft sr.
" This is the third letter I have diredied to
you since 1 left Halifax, by virtue of an atft wor
thy of the Britilh Parliament, I have this day
hoilted the flag of the Creek nation, on board
our new armed brig called the Union, which flag
received all the honors, by salutes, &c. that
could be possibly given by the Governor, and
who likewise gave a very sumptuous entertain
ment to a vast concourse of refpedtable charac
ters, who attended upon the occasion. This eve
ning or to-morrow morning we intend to fail for
our nation, where I hope to fee you shortly after
my arrival
" We still continae in the opinion, to build
oar new town, for the feat of Government, at
the Forks of the Apalachacola, where velfels of
considerable burthen may come to, from the
Bay ef Mexico.
1
S
'9
2
" From the goodness of the land, healthful
nefs of the climate, and the great emigrations
that are taking place, I am in hopes our country
will, in a few years, vie with, if not exceed the
progress and rapid strides of the States of Anie-
10
6
2
rica."
Philadelphia, April 11.
The Statue of Dr. Franklin was last Saturday fixed in its
niche, over the front door of the new library in Fifth-ftreet.
Francois Lazzarini is the sculptor, and Carrara the name
of the place where it was executed. It the intrinsic merit of this
master-piece of art did not speak its value, the name of the artist,
where he is known, would evince it. Heie perhaps its price may
give the best idea ot its worth. We have heard, but not from
such a quarter, however, as positively to warrapt the affertiou,
that it cost above 500 guineas.
The Statue ot Dr. Franklin is a full length figure, erect, clad
with a Roman Toga—the position easy and graceful in the right
hand is a sceptre reversed, the elbow resting on books placed on
a pedestal—the left hand, a little extended, holds » scroll.
Proposals for carrying the Mail of the United States, agreeable
to the ast for establishing the Poft-Office, which takes place the
firft of June next, are advertised for by the Postmaster-General
the terms to be given in by the firft of June.
By accounts from Cape-Francois, to the beginning of March,
it appears that the civil comtniflioners sent by the King and the
Colonial Assembly do not agree —the consequence is a continu
ance of the diflentions which diftraft that unhappy country.
Sixty-four dwelling houses ; nine kitchens independent of the
houses, and eleven (tables, were built in this city last year.
On Saturday last a meflage was delivered to the legislature of
the State, in which the Governor mentions, that he had repaid the
loan of £ 60,000 to the Bank of North America ; and that he had
finally fettled and discharged the legiflatiye grant to the Proprie
taries. The meflage was accompanied with a full acquittance of
the claims and demands on account of that grant.
Friday last arrived in this port the barque Neptune, Captain
Earlr, from Calcutta, which (he left the 26th of November, at
which time lord Cornwallis had marched from Bangalore, pre
paratory to the re-commencement of his operations against Se
ringapatam, the capital of Tippoo's dominions —A fhipthat had
been sometime ready to fail for England, was detained to carry
home his lordship's dispatches, which it was fuppufed would
contain an account of the event of tbt expeditions.
The fine new (hip Prefideot Washington, built in the State of
Rhode-Island, wai fold at Calcutta, in November last, for 140,000
ficra rupees, or 15,000!. sterling.
The accounts from India, by the Neptune, state, that a pesti
lential distemper, piobably the plague, prevails in various parts of
that country—that in addition to the other forts taken by tne troops
under Lord Cornwallis, he has captured Nundydroog; this place
was carried by llorm, and was a poll of conliderable strength—
That Seringapatam, Tippoo's capital, is in great diftrets for pro
visions, owing to a long drought—That the Engli(h army is en
camped 14 miles from Bangalore. Keencopy is another hill fort
which has surrendered, and leveral others are invested.— That
Lord Cornwallis expe&ed to be before Seringapatam by the firft
of November—That a marauding party of Tippoo's army had
taken about 900 bullocks belonging to the grand army—That
Gurrumcundah, a place in pofleffion of Tippoo's forces, was be
sieged by the Nizam's army, one of the Enghlh allies ; but they
met with great opposition—That a party of Mahrattas had been
defeated by a detachment from Tippoo's forces—That Tippoo
had recently put to death great numbers of Englilhand native pii
foners in a roost savage manner. The drought had prevailed very
extensively, and grain had in confequetice greatly advanced in
piice. Rice was felling Irom to 8 rupees per bag.
An account was received by a passenger in the Neptune, of a
dispute between a French and Englilh frigate; in conferenceol
which, a broadlide was fired into the French veflel, by which a
number of men were killed. The Englilh frigate was the Thames.
This frigate had the last dispatches from the British Government
in India. Lord Cornwallis had not commenced an attack on Se
ringapatam ; and his operations hitherto, were not considered in
a very important point of view.
DESCRIPTION.—FROM QUEBEC.
The Mefiafago Chief is a person 6 feet high—about 45 years of
age, of a very (our and morose countenance, and apparently very
cratty and subtle. His dress was Indian hose and moccafons, a
blue petticoat that came half way down his thighs—an European
waistcoat and fourtout ; his head was bound with an Indian cap
that hung half way down his back, and almost entirely filled with
plain silver broaches to the number of more than two hundred—
he had earrings to each ear, the upper part of each was form
ed of th r ee silver medals about the size of a dollar—the lower part
was formed of quarters of dollars, and fell more than 12 inches
from his ears—one from each ear over his breast—the other over
his back—he had three very large nose jewels ot silver that were
curiously painted. The account he gave of the a&ion, was, That
tfiey killed -.400 of the Whites, with the lols of g only of their
party, one of whom killed himfelf by accideut.—Our informant
is full in the opinion, that the British have not in any mftance
encouraged the Savages—but that the Refugees are very bitter a
gamft the United States. He was frequently in companv with the
MefTafago and other Chiefs at the House ot a gentleman who was
a linguiil to thefavages, and from him derived this information.
We hear, that on Thursday evening the Trustees of the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania elected their Profeflors—when the Rev. Dr.
Ewing, the Rev. Dr. Andrews, Dr. James Davidfon, Mr. Robert
Patterfon, the Rev. Dr. Rogers, and Rev. Dr. Helmuth, were
duly chofct).
399
The New-York Journal conta'ns a letter dated Port-a*-Prince
March 16—which lays that the Negroes on the plains ol Leoganc
have revolted and embodied—that on the 12th March their whole
force entered the town of Lcogane, but by the whiles and mulat
tos they were driven out again, and in a desperate action which
ensued, report fays that 2000 ot the revolters were killed. Near*
ly 56 plantations were burnt and ruined by thcni.
A writer in the Freeman's Journal points out the following, a
mong o(herdete£h in the patent system :
There is no fufficient provision to render patents furreptitiouflv
obtained, voidable ; in cafe patent privileges uic violated, com
petent provilion to obtain redress and damages is not made iu the
law—patents may be issued to twenty dirtcrent peifons for the
fame thing—there being no mode for trying and alcertdimng the
meritsof the applications ; a more perfetfc system therefore ap
pears absolutely necessary iu justice uot ouly to many ingenious
citizens who have expended much time and money in pro
fecuiing thetr inventions, but alto to the public who are now de
prived of the benefit of their ufeful discoveries. Every tree citi
zen has an inherent right to the acquisitions ot his labor and in
dustry—but if there is any property which appears from any pe
culiar quality to have a superior claim to the piote&iou of law and
government, it is that which a perfou derives from the exertions
ot his mental faculties.
Our fyftemsof finance arefnd to be servile copies of the British.
One would fnppofe the ault finders would scorn to copy ; but
the terms in which this charge is made and the tenor ot the com
plaints in the newspapers againlt the administration of the na
tional government,are all copies from old London papers. They
rail at the minijlry and corruption and court parajilcs, and jobbing
and forty orher cramp words that are not yet well understood lu
America. It would ease the virtuous labors of our fault finders
in their work of writing down an oppreflive government which
has crushed the people almost to death without their knowing it,
if an importation of tome old London papers were made. They
might take out paragraphs almost without changing a word which
would answer the purpose to a charm. Tne clergy it is thought
sometimes preach old feimons, and why ftiould not a like accom
modation be permitted to a dozen writers in the ncwtp3peis, who
virtuously take upon themselves the trouble of finding out ihe
grievances that the people do not fuffer and who are making thelc
grievances known so eloquently as to make ihem feel just as if
they did fuffer them. Make a man heartily angry with another,
and he will soon find or make a cause it he had none at firft. It
these worthy writers can make the people angry with their own
government, there is no doubt suspicion will find a multitude ot
devils and devils imps which are now invifibie. Hitherto ihcle
hunters for grievances have not found much game.
Three enlightened nations are enjoying freedom *-id prosperity
under three different forms of government. The kuowltdge ot
the best means of promoting the public liberty and happincls will
be improved by their experience.—We lhall fee how diifeieitily
•hefe are affe&ed by the political systems »f America France and
England. Perhaps we (hall fee that eacii plan has its merit, who
has a right to dccide dogmatically that there is but one 1 ight way
in politics ? Yet there seems to be in some a persecuting ipirir, as
if the world was to be conveited to the true orthodox political
faith by force.
SHORT AT LEAST
TO pay, or not to pay—that is the question ?
To pay—l'm ruin'd for a time—perhaps.
To stop—my chara&er is damn'd forever.
APPOINTMENT.
George Tay lor, Chief Clerk in the office of the department
of State, m the room of Henry Rem sen, resigned.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Industry, CafTen, Cadiz
Four Friends, De Hart, do.
Suflcx, Marshall, Cora ana
RifingSun, Eldridgc, do.
Brig Minerva, Thomploo, Fayal
Cadet, Oswald, Madeira
Loaifa, Moore, Antigua
Nancy, Barry, " ~
Schooner Franklin, Eve,
Sloop Polly, Brady,
Commerce, Belcher,
Lively, Baird,
Renown, Ingraham,
Eliza, Tatem,
Arrived at New-York, the ftiip Washington, Captain Hodg
kinfon, after a paifage of 3 mouth* and 25 days from Canton.
Captain Hodgkinfon, on his passage from Canton, spoke a
Dutch East-India (hip trom Calcutta, who informed him that the
ships Prelident Washington, and Governor Bowdoio, of Boftoo,
were arrived at that place.
The British Packet Daihwood, Capt. Roberts, from Falmouth,
has arrived at New-York.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
2 of fl.£
12,f
12/6
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cent#
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 1 95 do.
Indents 12J 60 do.
Halt ihares Bank Stock—so per cent, premium.
ADVERTISEMENT.
&T TO comprize in the present volume of this Gazette all the
Laws which are and may be enaded by Congress in the present
it will be necejfary to extend the numbers to the lafl of May. The fourth
volume, therefore, will commence with the beginning of June —and will
be printed on paper of larger dimenfons than the present, provided the
Editor's receipts of arrearagesfhall enable him to do it—the price to con
tinue at Three Dollais/>er annum.
Three years are nearly expired, Jince this publication JirJl made its ap
pearance ; during which, scarcely a Jingle injlance has occurred of re
mijfnefs in punctually dijpatching the papers from the Printing-Office—
their failures in reaching the fubferibers, have been owing to causes
which were entirely beyond the controul of the publisher. Under the
new regulations of the Poft-Off.ee Department, the Subfciibers for the
Gazette of the United States may therefore promise themfclves
the advantage of the JlrideJl punQualtty on the part of the Editor—
which % aided by that energy we have the greatejl reason to exped will
djlinguifh thefupgrintendance of the Gentleman now at the head of the
Poft-Ofjice Department % will ensure a Ready trarCmJion of New/babe rs
to all parts of the Union.
Cape-Fraucoi*
Port-au-Prince
Virginia
Cape-Francoi*
Malaga
St. Km*
Cadiz
par
60 pr. cent.
62 J do.THE Editor pJ the Gazette of the United States, mojl
carneflly requefls that those of his fubferibers, tvhofe arrearages have
been accumulating for more than twelve months, would make payment as
con as possible—at farthefl, before the fir [I day pJ june next.
Those persons whofhall fye djpofed to patronize thii Gazette after
. r the Pofl-Office Law shall go into operation, will pleaje to fgnfy their
intention to the Deputy Poft-Maflers in the United States, who are
requeued tojorwardJuchfubferiptions as may be received, to the Editor,
previous to the fuidfirfl oj June. The terms of fubferif tion are
Three Dollars per annum, exclusive of p<flage—One half to be paid at
the time offdbferibing, the other half to be advanced at the expiration of
the frfl fx months.
Bank of the United States.
March 21, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby art, au
thorised to compleat their Shares by payment at any time
before the periods required by the law ot incorporation.
Resolved, That each Share so coinpleated, shall be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits of the BanK, from and alter the firft
dav of the month next succeeding the day of compleaiing such
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's intercft upon the Pub
lic Debt transferred to complcat any Share as afcrefaid, as shall
have accrued before the firft day of the month next succeeding the
completion of such Share, shall be received bv the Bank, and paid
to the persons who shall have transferred the fame.
By oider of the Prtfident and Directors,
(eptiftj) JOHN KEAN, Cajkier.
At a meeting of the Directors op the Bank op
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of DiscOUnt and Deposit be
authorised to receive of Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Share* in the Capital Stock of the Bank, and
that the Cafliieis of the said offices give duplicate receipts for such
payments, one of which receipts, accompanied, with evidence of a
transfer of public debt fuflicicnt to complete said shares, upon be
ing produced at the Bank, shall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for full shares, and to all the benefits of the Resolutions
of the Board of Directors parted the 21ft inftanr, relative to com
pleting shares by payment at any time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the President and Directors.
. JOHN KEAN, Cajhicr.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,"|
March 31, 1 792. J
NOTICE is hereby given, Th«t the interell for the quarter,
yidirtgthis day,on the FUNDED DEBT oh lie United States,
Handing on the books of theTieafury, and of the Commiflioneroi
Loans foi this State, will be paid at the Bank of the United States.
' frp-'f)
WASHINGTON, hi the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF a LOT in th-s City, to be designated by impartial judges,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; ora MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party; will be given by the Commis
sioners of the Federal Buildings, to the pcrfon who, before the
fifteenth day of July, i 79 2 > produce to them the moll ap
proved PLAN, it adopted by them, fora CAPITOL, tobe erected
in this City ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
fliall adopt, The building to be of biick, and to contain the fol
lowing apartments, to wit:
A Conference Room ) fufficient to ac-"}
A Room for the Representatives < co n"nodatc 300 | thefc rooms
) persons each. ! to be of
A Lobby or Antichamber to the latter f full cleva-
A Senate Room of 1200 square feet area | tion.
An Antichamber or Lobby to the lafl J
12 Rooms of 600 square feet ana each, for Committee Rooms and
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Drawings will be expeded of the ground plats, elevations of
each front, vd feflions through the building in such dircftions
as may be necefTaiy to explain the internal ftrufture; and anelli.
, .male of the cubic feet of brick-work composing the whole mass
of the walls.
March 14, 1792,
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com
nrHiioners of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, (hall produce to them the mod ap
proved PLAN, if adopted bythem,fora PRESIDENT'S HOUSE
to be erefled in this City. The lite of the building, if the artist
will attend to it, will of course influence theafpeft and outline of
his plan ; and it j dellination will point out to him the number,
iize, and diftnbution of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if th« central part of it may be detached" and
u ' h , e PJ rf ' nt > w,th the appcarance of a complete whole
and be capableof admitting the additional pans, in future, if thev
lhall be wanting Drawings will beexpefted of the ground plats
elevations of each front, and feflion, through the building, in such
directions as may be necessary 10 explam the internal ftruflure •
»nd an eft,mate of the cubic feet of br.ck-work composing the
whole mass of the walls. 5
March 14. 1792,
STOLEN,
"IXriTHIN a few days last part, from (he Subfcriher, the sol-
J,*, ] ™;"Z N ° TES ' h Y ''>e Trcafurcr of the Common.
wealth of MalTachufctis: No. 18721, Dec. j , 7 8ci /7a
payahle to Phi n eas Lv man ; No. .8379, Nov. j, ,-8t /' ,6 7
payabeto W.ll.am Lyon; No. .30,, Dec. ~ ./g,q'
pavableto Nathahif.,. Wright ; No. ,6230. An- , ,-Bo'
tAittru- ° & * *<■"
Twenty Dollars; and whoever will" produce the above
Notes, and retu,n them to the fubferiber, (hall receive a reward
of One Hundred Do,, lars, and all necessary char fi r,
ha l\ n .S been taken to prevent tl.cr ever Vein, paid
njfo ,h T "by Trcaf " r " abovementioned° P A
persons therefore are cottoned not to outchafe the above Not,
of any one offering them for falc. '
Northampton, Feh. 29, 1792.
Public Securities,
Bought and Solu, on COMMISSION hv
SAMUEL ANDERSON, ' Y
Chefnut-Strcct,next door to the iiaak, No. 97,
tf the commissioners.
the commissioners.
4* NATH. WRIGHT.
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSC R I PTIOV,
In the Commonwealth of MaJJachufett s,
A
SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE of the ARTILLERY
in the UNITED STATES of AMERICA;
o It,
THE YOUNG ARTILLERISTS POCKETCOMPANION.
IN THREE PARTS.
Parti. ONTAINING the duty and practice of light field
V_y artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and pra&ice of heavy artillery :
tp which will be added, an extract of a Treatifc on the origin and
principle of Courts-Martial, wrote by an experienced Officer in
the line, and who did duly as Judge-Advocate in America.
Part 2- Laboratory duty ; containing a great variety of dire£tions
for Lompofition, and the method of making artifi ial fire-works,
and the formation of ammunition for the different kinds ot ord-
nance.
By IVILLIAM STEVENS, Esq.
An Oflictr in the American Artillery through the whole of the
late revolution, and (ince in the Militia.
conditions
This wotk to be printed on good paper with a handsome type,
neatly bound and lettered, in three pocket volumes, containing
upwards of one thousand pages; illustrated with a great variety
of explanatory plates, executed by abie artifls.
The price to lubferibers, One Dollar each volume—lo non-fub
f.'ribers, One French Crown each volume : and those who iubfcribe
for fix setts, shall have a feventhgratis.
This work shall be publifhcd as soon as five hundred copies are
fublcribed for.
Sunfcription papers will be lodged with the principal Printers
and Bookfelfers in the United State? of America.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON, Bookfe/ler,
At the Stone House in Sccond-Street,
The First Volume of
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS-.
Confiding of state papers, and other authentic documents,
as materials for an History of the United States
America,
By EBENEZER HAZARD, a. M.
Member of the American Philosophical Society, held at Philadel.
phia for promoting ufeful knowledge ; and Fellow of the Ame
rican Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The design of this compilation being to preserve and exhibit a
regular (fries of the mod important and authentic documents re
lating to the history of Amcrica, from its discovery by Columbus
to the present time, it mufl be peculiary interesting to ail who wifli
to acquire a thorough knowledge of this fubjett,
A P nl 4-
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Wa h ehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-flreei Wharf, adjoining their New Faflory—
where they have now made, and ready for Tale, a general a {fort,
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, tlie
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufafiured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addreiled to either of the
above Fattories, will be thankfully received, and execnted 011 the
Ihorteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, indnftrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments wili be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquii ens Meffts. Moss s Aust tti& Co
at iheir Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. tf
FOR S A L E,
BLOOMSBURY,
r T" , HAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
0 Trenton, in New-Jersey, occupied for many years past by
the subscriber; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, besides
a traa of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided hy the main street leading from
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearlv
equal in quantity ; the ealtwardly part being arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the said street on the ealf, and by the liver on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined effect of situ
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the 1110 ft
beautiful and desirable feats in the date. The manfion-houle is a
hand Tome, well-fmifhed brick building, 5 o by 40, containing lour
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extensive and pleasing view of
ir n r'i' 130111 abovxan d below, as well as including the falls, and
alio of rrenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings arc a new fton:
coach-hou.e and (tables, fufßcieut to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay; adjoining theft is a very complete granary,
rat proofs and a stone cow-house, upwards of 100 feet in length
containing thirty-one paved flails, over which is a roomy loftloi*
hay, &c Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the higlieit
" Jle °1 Culture, and abounding with a rich collection of the
choiccfl fruits of almost every kind, and several large alparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient diftancc from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, well
built, Hone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheefe-rooin,
Ipring-houfe, garden, &c. a complete stone smoke-house, corn
cobs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and everv other ne
celfary out-building. The ground is properly divided into [mall
fields, all well watered, highly impioved, and chieflv undtr the
molt approved grass. This square has produced annually, for se
veral years past, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay,' belides
supporting through the summer season twenty to thirty homed
cattle, ami eight or ten horses. It contains alio two bearing or
chards of good fruit The river abounds, in the proper seasons,
with great plrnty of all kinds of fill, usually found in frrfh wa.e?
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl ; both of which
may afford a pleasing amusement to the sportsman, as well as a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his table. The
wnole of the land, except the wood-land, is inched and divided
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar posts,
and rails of chefnut and white cedar. 1 !ie pu.chafir mav have
KeVrrv t ' para,dy ' ° r ' h< " whoi - 'Ogelher, as may
best fu.t him There is an mexhauftible quantity of ? ood build
ing stone on the river shore. The purchase money, if well secured,
and the interest punctually pa.d, will not be demanded for many
on r «°" c"' VICW '" S ,he ""y Ix- eiratifi d
on application ,o S AM „ EL W, Stockton, Efq/of Ttemon,
Dart of .l^ A | LL " A 'j W ?' vrt ' fcntoccu P'« , hetaim-hou!eand
pa t of the lano-and may know the price on apphcation to the
Ma k« in Vh'' Sccond " llr « t . opposite to the X'ew
rKct, in x hiiAdclphu. JOHNT COX
400
feo.xm)
Jones & Burroughs.
STOCK-BROKERS,
Bttv ar .1 St *"-. s »«t, BOSTON',
UY =>"<? fell every k.nd of (fie Stach of tfie l>n<fd SM-, on
Comm.ffinn, by I'nvate Comraft, aml p uUlt AatV^
*™tl«n«n who m bc plcafcd favor with their
command, may rely on fidelity,- fix.ecy and d.fpatch '
no/ton, March, 1702.
— ' ( l 3 w qn>)
A INFORMATION.
NEGRO MAN by t lie i«mt of CATO V.ER>VOV I
Mi Newport (Rhodc-.lflmd) et.liUed CoJ. R C T
meat of B Uk. early ,n the late War. He lurvivcH ,he Wa, S
fettled, as (uppoied, in or near Philadelphia. If he will
to thelEditor hereof, he will b c in f„ rn & 0 f foi'h, lg '
rably co his advantage. a., , 8 , at *
r "prtt 4- fcp.4?)
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, ~ *
fI'RICR 6/6.)
By MATHEVV CAREY
No. 118, Market-Street, near Fourth-blue!, '
The Ladies' Librany ■
CONTA I N I NC,
.. Mi<i More', E (Tays 5 . Swift's Letter 10,n,„ mar
2. Gregory's Legacy r?ed Lady
3. Lady Pennington* Advice 6. M.ft Ch'aponr on command
4. Marchioness of Lambert'* of Temper
rAui"*- cu* ur • 7 ' Morc ' sF " h !«fortheLadie 9
npHE editor of his publication hope,, f rom th . eftaMtih , ®
.ru ,at ; on f thc rcveral tr ? as ot which " ll Qompofed, ,h a ;
it will be found a more complete system for the inlUuftion oi the
female world, than perhaps any other extant.
A volume, under the present title, was lately puMillied in En»
land and Ireland, and had a mod rapid sale, having bern rmichafrH
bv almost every lady of taste tn those kingdoms. To tb'svolu™
the editor has added MlfsMore's Elfays-Mrs. Ch.ipone's'lett,,,
on the government of the temper-and Swift's letter to .1
lad--newly married. These have confiienbly enhanced its v»l u -"
and he doubts not, the ladies on this fide .of the Atlantic will !„
generous in their encouragement n c a work intended for their <d>
vantage as those in England and Ireland have been.
%* SETS OF THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
ASfevera/ gentlemen in different parts of the United States, hnt
been heretofore disappointed in their applications far complete sets of lit
American Museum, tin- printer inj,rms the public, that h, is
gaged in reprinting the deficient numbers of the work, anihf maani
will henceforward have a conjiant f„pply of jets in hand\-fuchfntle.
men, therefore, at please, may bejurnijhed with sets neatly bound', in ten
volumes,ai sixteen dollars.
This work wiU be found to contain ai lenjf as great a vari-tv ofpolL
tiraf, agricultural, and mjcellaneous ejjays, as any ever pukiijlej r»
America.
Said Carey has lately publijhtd,
t. Beauties of Poetry, British and Amencan, 6'.
2. Beattie's Elements of Moral Science, ss.
3. M'Fingal, an epic poem, 2/9^
4. Blair's Sermons, complete iri 2 vols. 15s.
5. Necker's Treatise on Religious Opinions, 6<.
6. Examination of Sheffield's Observations, 4/8
7. American Constitutions, qfH
8. Dowav Bible— neat, 6 dolls.—elegant, soft
q. Vade Mreum, i/*io£
10. Charles Grandifon, abtidged, 1/3
Si. Humphrey's Poems, bound i/"6, in blue paper i/iol
12. American Jcft Book, in two parts, bound, 4 1~6
13. Srlefl Poems, 1/3
14. Think well on't, ifio%
x ,5. The Christian Economv, lftvh
Offaid Carey may be had. Bibles, Tcflaments, Spelling-tods.
Primers, Quills, lok-Powd r, ff riting-Paper of various kinds, Bonnet-
Piper, Pocket-fiooks. Scales and Dividers, Ink-Stands, Melhge and
Playing Cards, (3c. (3c.
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
N'o. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
BOOKS,
Which may be seen every Hay, untilfive o'clock, r. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TT OMER, Xenoplion, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Sozo
-1 1 men, Theodores, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Patcr
culus, Pliuv, Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceroni s. B'blia Junii and Tremellii. Bible de Martin,Wells's Map*,
Scaoula:— Phavoriui—Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, Voffn Etymo
ogicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Sritannicae.See.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropasdia, Bentlcy's Horace, Torenre and
Pn«dru«, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceroni* op. om. Cxfar. Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram. Cluvc
rii Geographia, Jultinian Code, See.
Octavo et injra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes, Longinus,
Theophrallus, Hcfiod, Poetae minores Gr. Ifocrates, Phalaris,
rtous editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, I'lau
us, Lucan, Martial, Claudi<«n, Val. Flaccus. Aufoqius, Buchanan,
Sallult, Cuitius, Flows, Juftirt, Val. Maximum, A. Gcllius, HilL
August. Scriptores, Englijh and French Tranjlations of some o: the
Claflics, a great variety or Greek aod Latin Grammars, &c. &c.
(£3" Catalogue? may be had of MeflYs. Rice A: Bo<^kTellers,
Market-flreet, or of JOHN CAREY.
Ofipber 31. feptO
MPERIAL HYSON,SOCJCHONG, and BOHKA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.&e.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No ipt
Third-Street, bet ween Chefnut and Market Streets.
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR*
A TABLE for receiving and paving Gold at the Bank o. t c
United States, (hewing the Value of Gold in a " 1
Cents, from One to a Thousand Pennyweights —according to t c
of Conureft, the Standard and '■"* r C,->
Pubiilhed. and to be |~!d bv the Editor, pnee £th oi a Do"» r .
TWEN'TY-SIX LETTERS,
On the most important Subjects.
Refpeft'n? the REVOLUTION of AM! RICA
Written in Holland in the vear 1780,
Bv the V; € e-Pr es :dl m of the L'mud States.
&T Mank Powers to receive Melntcreft, and forth etransjerfifth*
principal ofpublic debt % <i?reeahle tothe Rules ejiablijt e e rea
fur\ Department: Atfo BlanksJorabJlracts of Certificates, t<. cjo a
the Editor.
CfT The JOURNALoftHs THIRD StS^lOSof tit S£lfJ
of the UNITED STATES, at) k hticf the Ealtrteric,.