A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FF.NW), No. 69, HIGH.STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 102, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, April iB, 1792.
general post-office,
Philadelphia, March 24, I 79 2 -
PROPOSALS foi carrying M.iilsof ihe Uniied Sum, oil
the following pnft roads n> South-Carohna and Georgia, wil
be received at the Paji-Ojjtct iu Charlejon, umil the full day ol
June next,
In Sot;tH-Carolina.
, From Stat'fturg to CharUJhv, once - week—The mail to
jvc Statciburg eve, y Monday morning at nine o'clock, or other
wile in half an bout alter ilie arrival ol the northern mail , and
; r „ve in Charleston the next day at four o'clock in the afternoon.
Rtturnhj;, to leave Charkllon every Friday at three o clock ... tne
alternoon, and airive at Statelbuig the next Sunday, ~t nine in the
Charlejlon to George-lawn, once in two weeks—The
mail to leave Charleston every other Tuesday, at five o'clock in
,he afternoon (or otherwise in one hour after the arrival of the
mail from Statelburg) and arrive at George-town the next day, at
ftvm in the afternoon. Returning, to leave George-town the next
morning at four o'clock, and arrive at Charleston the following
day (Fridav) alexin the morning.
Q From Charlejlon to Savannah, once in two weeks—The mail
to leave Chatltfton every other Friday, at nine o'clock in the
morning, and arrive at Savannah the next Sunday, at ten o'clock
in the forenoon. Returning, to leave Savannah the fame day, at
two o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Charleston the next
Tucfday at joar in the afternoon.
In Georgia.
4 From Augujla to WaJlnnglon (111 Wilkes county) thence round
\siGucnhorougGreat Falls of Ogechee and Georger-Hum to Au
raSa—once in two weeks. The mail to leave Augusta every o.
thcr Thursday, at four o'clock in Ihc morning, arrive at Walh
injrton the fame day, and complete the circuit on the tlurd day,
getting back to Augusta by fix o'clock in the evening of Saturday.
. f Jom Savannah to Newport Bridge and Sunbury, once in two
-weeks. The mail to leave Savannah every other Friday it one
o'clock in the afternoon (or in one hour after the arrival of the
northern mail) and arrive at Sunbury on the next day at noon.
Rehtrmngs to leave Sunbury the next Monday at four o'clock in
tkeujorning, and arrive at Savannah the fame day, at fx in the
afternoon. —
general post-office,
Philadelphia, March 30, 1792.
PROPOSALS will be leceived at this Office until the firft day
of June next,for carrying the Mails of the United State* on
the following pod roads :
In North-Carolina, ence in two weeks.
1. From Halifax by Warrington, Hill/borough, and Salem to Sahf
bury. The mail to leave Halifax every other Thuifday at four
o'clock in the morning, deiiver the mails at all the port-offices
from thence to Salisbury at such times as (hall be found rnoft be
neficial to the public ; and return with the mails from all thole
poft-oftces, so as to arrive at Halifax at fix o'clock in the evening
of the Tuesday next preceding the Thursday when it is again to
leave Halifax.
2. From Halifax, by Bluntjville, Williampn and Dailcys, to Ply*
mouth. The mail to leave Halifax every other Thursday at four
o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Plymouth the next morning
at eight o'clock ; leave Plvmouth the fame day, and arrive at
Halifax the day after, at Jix in the evening.
3. From Edenton by Hertford, Nixonton, Sawyer s Ferry, in
Camden county, to Indiantown, in Currituck county. The mail
to leave Edenton eveiy other Saturday at four o'clock :n the
morning, arrive at Indian-town that night, and return to Edenton
the next Monday at Jix in the evening.
In Virginia.
4. From Frederickfburg to Port Royal, Tappahannock, VrbfrtV't,
thaice across the Rappahannock to Northumberland Court- House,
to Kinfale on Yeocomico, Wejlmoreland Court-Honje, and Leea-
Jlown, to Frederickfburg, once a week. The mail to leave Fre
derickfburg every Friday at five o'clock, in the morning, :ind
making the tour above aefcribed, return to Freder.ckfburgh on
the next Thursday at noon.
5. From Alexandria to Wirtchejier, once a week. The mail to
leave Alexandria eveiy Thursday at noon, and arrive at Winches
ter the next Saturday, at five o'clock in the afternoon; and re
turning, to leave Winchefler every Mondav, at ten o'clock in the
torenoon, and reach Alexandiia the next Wednesday, by fve in
the afternoon.
6. From Winchejier to Staunton, onre a week. The mail to
leave Winchcfter every Monday, a: eleven o'c'ock in the forenoon,
and arrive at Staunton the next Wednesday by five in the after
noon ; and returning, to leave Siaunton < very Thursday at eleven
o'clock in the forenoon, and arrive at Winchelter the next Satur
day by Jive in the afternoon.
la Virginia, the Territory South of the Ohio and
Kentuckey.
7. From Staunton by Lexington, Tincaftle, Montgomery Court Houf,
Wythe Court House, and Abingdon, to Hawkins Court House, in the
Territory South of the River o*iio, once in two weeks. The
mail to leave Staunton every other Thursday, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon, and arrive at Hawkins Court Houle the next Wednes
day at five o'clock in tne afternoon ; and returning, to leave Haw
kins Court House the next morning at five o'clock, and arrive at
Staunton the week following, on Wednesday at noon.
3. From Hawkins Court House to Danville in Kentuckey, once in
two weeks. The mail to leave Hawkins Court House every other
Thursday, at fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Danville
the next Tuesday at five o'clock in the afternoon ; a/id returning,
to leave Danville the Friday following at fix o'clock in the morn
ing, and arrive at Hawkins Court House the next Wednesday by
noon.
Note.—As the condition of the country between Hawkins
Court Houfc and Danville may rcndei the regular carriage of tin
mail impra&icable, the persons who shall ofter to contract, will
&ate in their proposals the times and manner in which they think
the carriage of that mail most eligible and praflicable, so that it
he not oftener than once in two weeks, nor le<s tiequent than once
in Jour weeks, as far as such a dfgrce of regularity is aitainabie.
and (late the terms on which they will so carry it : or, it they
think it pra&icable, to carry this mail regularly once in two
weeks (going and returning) or on re in four wreks ; they will
diftin&ly date the terms on which they will carry it for one pe
riod and for the other.
Jn the State of Delaware and Virginia.
9, Frorw Wilmirgton by Nencaji/e, (antweh's Bridge and Duck-
Creek to Dover, once a week. The mail to leave Wilmington
cvei y Monday at three o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Do
ver on Tuesday try five in the afternoon—returning, to leave Dover
on Wednt fday by jive o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Wil
mington by fix in the evening, or by nine o'clock, on Thurlday
morning. From Dover to the Eejlern Shore of Virginia and
Neifolk, once in two weeks. The mail to leave Dover every o
ther Wrdncfday, at five o'clock in the morning, pass Dagfiorough,
Snow-Hill, and Accomac Court House, and arrive at Northampton
Court House the following Saturday by five o'clock in the after
noon, proceed across the terry to Noi folk the next day, and re
turn to Northampton Court House the following Tuesday, by five
o'clock in the afternoon ; leave Northampton Couit Houie on
Wednesday at five o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Dover
> the next Saturday by five in the evening.
(jCf The pirlons offering propofaU for carrying this mail, will
i be pleased to state the terms on which they will carry it once in
every meek.
In Maryland
10. From Eajlon (on the Kaftern Shore) to Vienna, and thence
by Salijiury, to Snow Hill, once a week. The mail to leave Eailon
on Wednesday, at eleven o'clock in the forenoon, and arrive the
n«xt day at Snow Hill by two in the afternoon. Returning, to
leave Snow Hill on Friday morning at fix, and aruve at tallon
on Saturday by noon.
11. From Annapolis to Upper M&r thorough, Pifcatawa, Port To
bUcco, Allots Fre/h, Newport, Chaftico, and Leonard-town, once a
week. The mail to leave Annapolis on Tuesday, at fix o'clock in
the morning, reach Pifcatawa that evening,and arrive at Leonard,
town on Wednesday evening, or by nine o'clock on 1 hurfday
moining. Returning, to leave Leonard-town on Thursday, at
three in°the alternoon, and arrive at Annapolis on Saturday, at
five in the alternoon.
12. From Baltmoreby Frederick .town and Sharp/burg,to Hager s
towv, and thence to Chamber burg, once a week. Ihe mail to
I leave Baltimore on Saturday, at three o'clock in the alternoon, and
arrive at Cnamheifburg the next Monday byJeven in the evening,
or on Tu fday by jeven in the moining. Returning, to leave
Chambeifbu'g on Wednesday morning at five o'clock, and ar
rive at Baltimore on Friday by four in the afternoon.
In the States of Pen nsy l v a n i'a, New-Jsrsiy and Nsw-York.
13. From Philadelphia to Bethlehem, once a week. The mail to
leave Philadelphia onThurfday by fix o'clock in the morning, and
arrive at Bethlehem on Friday by nine in the morning. Return
ing, to leave Bethlehem on Monday by fix in the morning, and
arrive in Philadelphia by nine on Tueiday morning.
14. From Bethlehem to Reading, once a week. The mail to
leave Bethlehem on Friday, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, and
airive at Reading by eight on Saturday morning. Returning, to
leave Reading at nine o'clock the fame morning, and arrive at
Bethlehem by seven in the evening.
x 5. From Reading by Rarrijburg, to Carltjle, once 4 week. The
mail to leave Reading on Friday mornig by lix o'clock, arrive at
Carlisle the next day by seven in the evening. Returning, to leave
Carlisle on Monday moining' at fix o'clock, and arrive at Harrif
btirg by noon ; leave Harrifburg the next Wednesday by lix
o'clock in the morning, and aruve at Reading by fix on Thurlday
evening. „
16. From Bethlehem by laflon and Sussex Court House, to Gofhen,
once a week. Ihe mail to leave Bethlehem every Friday at ten
o'clock in the forenoon, and arrive at Gofhen by nine o'clock the
next Monday morning. Returning, to leave Gofhen the lollow
lng Wednesday at fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Beth
lehem by nine o'clock the next Friday morning.
17, From Goftim by Ward's Bridge and Ktngjlon to Rhmebeck,
once a week. The mail to leave Gofhen on Wednesday morning,
at fix o'clock, and arrive at Rhinebeck, 011 Thursday forenoon by
eleven. Returning, Wave Rhinebeck the fame day by noon, and
arrive at Gofhen on Friday evening by fix. , £ . r
18 From Elizabeth-touin or Newark to Morns-town and Sujjex
Court House, once a week. The mail to leave Elizabeth-town or
Newark on Wednefdav at noon, and arrive at Suficx Court Houie
. on Thursday by two o'clock in theafternoon. Returning, to leave
I SufTcx Court House on the some day at three in the afternoon, and
1 arrive at Elizabeth-town or Newaik on Friday, by fix in the
evening. ,
iq From V/oodbridgc to Amkoy, on Tuesday, Tburfday, and
Saturday, or every day in the week, Sunday excepted. The per
sons disposed to contr a a for the carriage ol this mail, to slate the
different terms on which they will thus carry it, three orJS* times
a veil The hours of arrival and departure to correspond with
the arrivals of th mail from Philadelphia at Woodbridge.
so. From Philadelphia, by Salem to BrUgtioum, once a week.—
The mail to leave Philadelphia every Thuilday at three o'clock in
the afternoon, and arrive at Bridgetown on Saturday by [even in
the morning. Returning, to leave Bridgetown on Monday by four
in the afternoon, and arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday b
eight in the morning.
In the States of New-York WViuiomt.
i_ _ _ t.L. n J "
21. From Albany by ischenaßady to Connajorharne, ouee a week.
The mail to leave Albany e«ry Thurlday at 6x o'clock in the
morning, and arrive at Connajorharrie on Fr.day by Un m the
forenoon\ leave Connajorharne the fame day at one ... the after,
noon, and return to Albany the next day by five m the afternoon.
?2 From Albany (by Troy and Lanfingburg) to Btnntnglun, Man
cheller and Rutland, once a week. The mail to leave Albany every
Thursday at fix o'clock in the morning, and »rrive at Bennington
the fame day at four in .lie afternoon; to leave Brnn, "«'°"
turday at fix in the morning, and proceed to MancheAer and Rut
land : get back to Bennington the next Tuelday, and arrive at
Albanv'bv Wedncfdav noon.
2 , From Rutland to Burlington on Lake Champlain, once in
two weeks. The mail to leave Rutland on every other Monday
at fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Burlington on l uef
day at noon : leave Burlington on Wednesday at fix in the morn
ing, rai arrive at Rutland the next day by noon.
£3" The perrons who offer proposals foi the carriage of this
mail, will be pleased to state the terms on which they will carr
it once a week.
River.
24 From Springfield in b y Northampton to Brat
tltbmovgh in Vermont, one, a week. The ma,l to 'eave pr.ng
field every Mondav at one o'clock .n the afternoon, and
Brattleborough the next day ufve in the afternoon : Brat
tleborough the next Saturday at noon,and arrive at Springfield the
n*vt Moiidsv by fitnt in the rooming.
2 5 . From Bratllcborough, by CharUftomaiKinifir, to
in New-H.mpn.ire, onee a week. The mail to leave Braalebo.
rough every Wcdnefday at five o'clock in the morning and reach
405
[Whele No. 510.]
Windsor by five in the afternoon : leave it on Thursday at one
o'clock in the afternoon, and reach Hanover at jive : leave Hano
ver at five o'clock on Ftiday morning, and arrive at Brattlebo-
rough by eleven o'clock on Saturday forenoon.
26. Front Springfield in Massachusetts, by Stockkridge 10 Kinder
hook in Ihe State oi New-York, once a week. The mail to leave
Springfield eveiy Monday at noon, arrive at Stockbtidge the next
day by noon, and at Kindeihook on Wednetday by noon : to
leave Kinderhook on Thursday at noon, and return to Springfield
by the next Monday at nine in the morning.
27. From New-York to Hertford in the ftite of Conne6licilf ?
through White Plains, North-CaftK Salem, Ridge
field, Danbmy y Newtown, New-Miltord, Litchjieldy Harrington
and Farmington, once a week. The mail to lei've New-York oa
Thursday at tour o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Hartford
by eight o'clock iu the morning of the next Monday. Returning,
to leave Hartford the fame Monday at ten o'clock in the forenoon,
and arrive at New-York by eight o'clock in the morning of the
next Thursday.
As it is supposed that the parting of the mail through some
other towns, or pait of this upper route, from New-York to
Hartford, may be more extensively ufeful, the peiions inclined to
contra6l lor the carriage of it, will be pleased to make iwo diftinck
proposals ; one for the route above described ; the other with
such deviations as they think will be mod ufelul to the inhabi
tants ; but in both cases to pass through Danbuiy and Litchjield.
In Massachusetts and RhodkJsland.
28. From Salem to Gloucejler, twice a week. The mail (o leave
every Monday and Thursday morning at fix o clock,
and arrive at Salem by nine. Returning, to leave every
Wednesday and Saturday by tcvo in the afternoon, and airive at
Gtoucefter the fame day by Jive.
I£T If a itage-waggon run* oftenev, or on any other days, be
tween Salem and Gloucester, any persons disposed to contrail for
the carnage of the mail, may conform their propolals io the ufua*
al days and hours of the departure and ariival of the (lage-waggon.
29. From Salerti to Marblehead- Persons inclined to contrail to
carry this mail, are desired to make three different propoials :
dating the terms on which they will carry it twice a week, three
times a week, and every day in the week, Sunday excepted ; the
times of departure and arrival to correspond with the times of the
arrival and departure of the ftage-waggous ufuatly patting between
Bojlon and Salem.
30. From Salem to Bojlon, everv day in the week, Sunday ex
'< cepted ; the hours of departure and arrival to conform to the usual
hours of the departure and arrival ot the ft.ige-waggon daily palling
between those two places.
31. From Bojlon, by Plymouth, to Barnjlab/e, once,a week. The
mail to leave Bolton on Thursday by seven in the morn
ing, and arrive at Barnftable by five 9'clock in the afternoon on
Friday. Returning, to leave Barnftahle on Monday by seven
o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Bodon on Tueiday by five
in the afternoon.
32. From Bojlon to Taunton, once a week. The mail to leave
Boston on Thursday by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at
Taunton by two o'clock in the afternoon. Returning, to leave
Taunton on Tuesday by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at
Boston by Jour in the afternoon.
33. From Taunton, through IVarren and B'ijlol, to Newport,
once a week. The mail to leave Taunton on I hurfday at three
o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Newport on Friday by
noon. Returning, to leave Newport on Monday by eight o'clock
in the morning, and arrive at Taunton by Jive in the afternoon.
34. From Taunton to Ncw-Beajord, once a week. Ihe mail to
leave Taunton 011 Thursday at three o'clock in the afternoon, and
arrive at New-Bedford on Friday by noon. Returning, to leave
New-Bcdfoid on Monday by ninfc o'clock in the morning, and
arrive at Taunton byJivt in the afternoon.
35. Per Cons offering proposals for carrying the three hit mails
(No. 32, 33, 34,} will be plea fed to state the terms on which the/
will carry the mail from Beflon through Taunton to Newport, arid
the mail from bojlon through Taunton to New Btdjord, and back t<i
Bnfton at the tinus abovementtoned.
36. From Providence 10 Worcefler, once a week. The mail to
leave Providence on Wednesday by fix o'clock in the morning,
and arrive at Worcester by fix in the evening. Returning, to leave
Worcefler on Monday by fix in the morning, and arrive at Pro
vidence by fix in the evening.
In New-Hampshire.
37. From Portjmouth by Exeter to Concord, once a week. The
mail to leave Povtfmouth every Monday morning at fix o'clock,
arrive at Exeter by nine\ proceed to Concord, and rctuinto Ports
mouth by five o'clock the next Wednesday afternoon.
*** The peifons offering to contract for this road, aie defircd
also to state the terms on which they will carry the mail from
Exeter to Concord and back, once a week ; leaving Exeter every
Monday at ten o'clock in the morning, reaching Concord the nex:
day b) noon, and returning to Exeter on Wednelday by two in
the afternoon.
38. From Concord (by Plymouth and Orjord) to Hanover, once in
twoo weeks. The mail to leave Concord every other Wednesday
by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Hanover the next day
by five in the afternoon : to leave Hanover on Friday at fix o clock.
:n the morning, and returning by the new road, arrive at Concord
on Saturday by five in the afternoon.
39. For carrying the mail from Concord to Hanover, by the route
above described, once in everv week.
40. For carrying the fame mail (from Concord to Hanover) by
the new road, both going and returning, once in every week, and
once in two weeks.
*4.* The terms for carrying the mail between Concord and Ha
nover, in the four different ways here mentioned, to be diftin&y
ilated. .
As some of these mails mav be conveniently carried »n
perffms inclined lo contra# will be picaTv dto itatc
the terms on which they wilj/o carry any ps them, as well as the
terms on which they will carry them on horseback.
Note 1. It hereafter it ftiould appear thai any other times for
the arrival and departure ot the nnils would be more convenient
and ufeful than thole above proposed, alterations may accordingly
be made. r ...
2. For every hour's delay in arriving after the times preicnbca
in any contra#, the contraftorto forfeit one dollar; and tor the
non-pcrfonnance of a nip, double the sum which the value ot
one trip shall bear to the value of the whole number of trips to be
perfoimed. . . , r
3. The cont rafts to continue in force until the hat aay or
Juup, 1/94- TIMOTHY PICKERING, reflmfer-Gcntr-a!.\
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY, March 8.
Debate ou the resolution reported by a filed commit
tee—That the Secretary of the Treasury be direcl
edto report his opinion to the House, on the befl
mode of raising ihofe additional supplies "which the
public service may require for the current year.
MR. STEELE observed, that a motion to bring
forward a bill for repealing the law esta
blishing the treasury department, would afford a
proper opportunity for the display of that ora
tory which the House had been entertained with
yesterday and to-day.—But on the present ecca
fion, he conceived the remarks werenot in point.
He observed that it was customary with thefirft
Congress, to make references of fubjecfts of this ns.
ture to the Secretary of the Treasury ; the pre
sent Congress has done the fame—and he had
heard of nothing that fuggells a fufficient reason
to deviate from the practice. All the reports
that have been received, have been attended to,
investigated, and scrutinized with a zeal and di
ligence, which have not marked the conduct of
the House on the reports from fele<3; committees
—He is-ftanced several reports of the latter rle
fcription,to which little attention had been paid.
The independence of the Honfe has been mani
lefted in refpecft to reports from executive offi
cers, even from the highest ; and hetrufted that on
all occasions the House would continue to sup
port its independence of chara<fier. He fhoulcl
always rejoice in an opportunity to oppose eve
ry report from the heads of departments, when
his judgment did not approve of them.
>. He contrasted the present conduct of those op
posed to the motion, with their conduit on the
bill providing for the defence of the frontier*—
Every one who now opposes this proposition, was
in favor of almost a« implicit adoption of the re
port from the Secretary of War—Heoppofed that
report —but these gentlemen now oppose the molt
obvious mode of devising ways and means to de
fray an enormous expence, brought on the coun
try by that very bill.
Mr. Murray oblerved, that on fiich a question,
his object should be to pursue what appeared to
him the wisest mode of raising taxes—ln agreeing
however with the resolution and its reference,
he could neither fee danger in the precedent,
nor surrender of confticutional right in the con
sequences—As to the privilege of originating mo
ney-bills—When waysand ineansareto be fought
for, his firft objecfl should be to gain all the in
formation the delicacy of the cafe demanded
The duty of exploring the resources of a coun
try, as yet untried in many of its objedts of tax
ation, was certainly the buflnefs of the House of
Representatives—but why they should refufe to
themselves an opportunity of gaining additional
knowledge, beyond what the leisure of any one
here, or the abilities of few could collecft, was
extraordinary—He wished for a reference to the
Secretary in the firft instance, because it would
not very well comport with the dignity of the
House to refer to him in the fccond
If on trial, there {hould appear either a crudity
or a confliaingoffyftems j and if, as would moil
probably be the cafe, partiality in the mover of
any undebated set of resolutions, should fliow it
felf, the House must either make the mod of the
plans proposed, or in the very last resort, rail on
the officer of government to suggest his opinion
on the fubjetft—The fubjetf: was extremely in
tricate—But part of the intricacy of taxation and
finance was removed, by the well arranged order
in which he prefuined the documents relative to
the department were preserved.— An ad of Con
gress has already delineated the duties of the va
rious departments—T o the Secretary of the Trea
sury it belonged to colledi information refpeiting
the objects of taxation—To invent or adopt anil
propose schemes, by which the revenues were to
be improved— to digest ideas on the political e
conomy of the country, and to superintend its
finances—ln such a department, he must think
that a mass of information existed on the various
resources of this country, and their probable pro
duftivenefs, which was not necefl'arily to be ex
pected elsewhere—He wished to avail himfelf of
this information, on which he would exercise his
right of judging, altering or rejeifting ; and he
wished to obtain it in the mode most congenial
•with his own n.ind, an open refpoufible commit-'
r.ication to the whole House.—He was certain
that, though in no habits of intimacy* himfelf
that coultl juftify a private communication with
the Secretary, nor warrant from the Secretary
an unsolicited opinion to him, the opinions and
ideas of the Secretary would, in fonie way or o
ther most alfuredly find their way into the Hotife
—He wished to fee 110 minilterial out door influ
ence—The wholesome influence offuperior judg
ment and of well digested opinion, he did not
fear ; on the contrary, that superiority was the
only one to which he could bow ; and the only
way in which the unmixed benefit of such an in
fluence can be felt, was that way in which the
law refpedting the heads of departments contem
plated the fubjedt.—From this mode of commu
nicating all the knowledge of the treasury de
partment, two benefits would be derived—The
Secretary would fend to us his best opinions on
the fubjetfi, and in a way of which the whole
House and the public itfelfcould avail themselves
in forming a judgment—and private influence,
partially, and irresponsibly given to individu
al members, would be rendered useless.—He beg
ged leave to remark that the objection to this
mode, that the power and right was in the House
of Representatives to originate money-bills,could
not have much weight—The House of Repre
sentatives of right, and by the constitution were
properly constituted the sole origin of money
bills—But this reference does not deny the right,
nor can it weaken its operation—A bill does not
originate till the House has agreed to some prin
ciples or resolutions ; or a committee reports a
bill by order :—principles then eltablifhed by
vote, resolutions, or leavt, are the only ways in
which, in a legillative sense, any thing can be
known to this government to originate in the work
of legislation—He who has not a feat here, of
whom for the fake of multiplied information we
require controulable opinion, does no more ori
ginate the legislative work of the House, than the
author of a work on finance, from whose opini
ons we form a scheme of revenue, can be said to
tax the people. There is certainly this good at
tending a reference in such cases—a greater
chance for simplicity in the fyftein of finance,
and greater (lability—The opinions thus obtain
ed, are not obligatory farther than as they ap
pear founded in wisdom—we can alter, add, cr
rejetfl—a complete controul is in our power.—lt
is thus we shall unite the efficiency and regulari
ty which are the only good parts of bad govern
ments, with the controul and right of reiecfiion
which belong to the most free. Gentlemen, af
ter all, will not be precluded from furnilhing the
house with the result of their individual labors,
and talents.—Some gentlemen had agreed, that
if a committee were to submit a plan to the House,
that committee might obtain all the intelligence
neceffiry from the Secretary—This would, he
thought, be better than obtaining information
secretly by individuals ; but would be very ob
jedfionable, and attended with this inconveni
ence that the opinions of the Secretary on which
the committee might make their report, would
be but partially known to the House, and would
come into it unaccompanied by the higti refpon
flbility which an official report from the officer
made in the face of the world, would give them
He said he would vote for the leference, be
cause he wished, on so tender a fubjetft as that of
taxation, to have all possible information be
cause he felt his right to rejedt opinions to which
he might not be able to subscribe ; and because
he thought the House too delicate to obtain of
ficial information in any other mode than that
in which they might rightfully exert their im
partial judgments in its admiifion or rejection.
Mr. findley—l objedt to the resolution for
calling upon the Secretary to report upon the
ways and means—as contrary to the principles
of the government, and inconsistent with the pu
rity and independence of the House of Repre
sentatives, whose duty it is exclusively to prepare
or originate revenue laws.
I consider this mode as a transfer of legislative
authority—lt is a serious qtiei'.ion, if legislative
authority can be transferee! by the constitutional
representatives of the people—if it can how far !
It any part of the constitutional legislative trust
C r'i trans^ may not all or any part there
of be so ? The opinion 1 have received, and in
which I am firmly perfuadea, is that the legifla
rui e, nor any branch thereof, can do any part of
legislation by proxy—The members only are re-
Iponfible for the discharge of that trust ; they
are the official judges of the principles and ob
jects of legislation.
• £ Houie of Representatives are peculiarly
intruded with the authority of digelling fifcal ar
rangements and principles ; of faying what (hall
e a fubjecfl of taxation, to what amount, and the
uses to which it (hall be applied—This power is
luppofed by the constitution of the United States
and by the constitutions of most or all of the se
parate dates, to be a most important and influ
ential part of legiflmive authority; hence the
senates, though they are alio the people's repre
sentatives, are in other relpetfs vested with equal
egifiative authority, are not permitted to prepare
revenue systems ; their attempting to do it,would
ie an unc onftituiional usurpation of legislative
power. 6
406
The method of tra'nsfering a pofrer to the S»
cretary to digest the principles of moi|ey.biß»
and report them officially to the Houfej,* nccot*
panied with his arguments in support oftbeprin.
ciples and arrangementi contained in & report ,
which has been ian&ioned by Congrewp and it
now about to be repeated by "the refutation b*
fore you, I consider as a method of originati*
money-bills highly improper in itfelf, and
hath a dangerous tendency.
But a worthy member (I believe Mr. Ames)
informs us, iu defence of the resolution, that the
Secretary can prepare a revenue system w i t (,
more consistency with ref'pec r t to the txilfin<T re .
venue laws, and better calculated to support pub
lie credit—that it will pais with greater facility
through the House— that the members are une.
qual to the bufinefs—tlnu the members do not
potTefs fufficient information to enable them to
originate the business—that the Secretary only
is poflefled of the information competent "to it—
that we can judge of his systems when they are
laid before us—as there will be always fonie to
find out his defects and expose them. All ( h e fe
arguments refpetSing the incompetency of the
members for the business, and the fuperiorfitnefs
of the Secretary, apply against the government
itfelf ; if the constitution vests this House with a
trull which it is not qualified to discharge, it is
time to change it, and adopt a more fimpleform.
It is much better to have a minister responsible
to the people for the revenue systems theyintro
duce, that to have his responsibility loft 'in the
legislature—is the members of this Houfeareon
]y to give a fanftion to the minister's fylleins, it
is better to dispense with that fandion. I have
no doubt but that the Secretary of the Treafurv
is very capable of discharging this duty ; and if
he was a member of this House, would not fay
he was unfit far his part of that trull—but this is
not the place for panegyric—The minider's emi
nent abilities or his want of them, is all one to
me on this fubjetft.—The modelly of gentlemen
who declare themselves unfit, is not very honor
able to the House, nor easy to be credited.—Let
tne House fix its own principles, judge for them
selves <?f the proper sources of revenue, and of
the !>fes to which it ought to be applied ; and
capacity and information will grow out of the
investigation—if the members differ in opinion,
as may be expedted, they will propose different
systems ; and by comparison and discussion they
will become the better acquainted with the fub
ject—lf the members stand in need of that in
formation which arises from the operation of ex
isting laws, or of the efficiency of operating re
venues—the President has a conffitutional power
to call upon the heads of departments for that
information, and communicate it to the legisla
ture ; and the House, by its own authority, has
a right to call for information from any officer
or department, upon any fubjecft respecting which
it may originate laws—this is a power incidental
to iegiflation.—But with refpe<ft to the general
interests of the community, the knowledge of
which mull grow out of a reprefentauon of all
the local interests, this can only be found among
the members of this House—and if the represent
ation was more numerous and more equal, that
kind of information would be still more perfect
—Certainly this House contains in itfelf more ex
tensive knowledge of the people's wants and
pressures, of their situation and prepollelfions,
and of their refburces, than the moil enlightened
minister can possibly do ; especially when it is
considered that all the documents locked up in
the minister's office is at their command —the
pra&ice of the House in depending on the mi
nister for to originate principles, and to furnifh
the House with volumes ot arguments in favor
of those principles—and the custom of membets
having recourse to those arguments as authorities,
has done more to dishonor Congress and le'leii
the members in the public efteen»,fince the change
of the government, than any other part of their
conduit. How can Congress be reipeiftable, if
they spend long felfions at a great expense on the
molt influential parts of legislation, only to gi* =
a fancftion to ministerial fyllems ; or at beftonl/
to criticile and corretft them.
(The remainder of this speech in our next.)
MONDAY, April 16.
Several petitions and memorials were reac.ai
referred — among others, a petition from J u ' e P
Ree, an Oneida Indian, praying compenfationlo
lodes and services during the late war—and 3
memorial from the Firit Presbyterian Society"
New-ferfey, praying compensation for the lo
of a building formerly occupied as an acadetnv,
and delTroyed by the enemy in the late war. >
A petition of Eliphalet Lacid, praying an abate
ment of the duties on certain goods laved fi° ,n
the wreck of the ship Columbia, loft on a le S e
of rocks near Plymouth, MaiTachufetts.
The report of the Secretary of the I reafuf)>
relative to the compensations of the officer 50
the revenue, was referred to a feletft coninntt
of five. . . e
The report of a committee on the petition o
the inhabitants of Newark, praying coinp el '"'tion for an Academy destroyed in the late war,
was read. This report was made on general
principles, nnd in favor of tiie petition.
A meflage was received from the Pre-fident of
the United States, communicating a letter from
the Judges of the Supreme Court of the United
States, dated at New-York the sth init. Itating
their opinion and agreement relative to the " Ait
to provide for the claims of widows and orphans,
barred by the limitations heretofore elfabliflied,
and to regulate the claims to invalid petitions."
Read and laid 011 the table.
This letter contains certain objertions to the
above law, as blending the brandies of the go
vernment, and improperly fubje<fting the judici
ary to thecontroul of the legiflativc and execu
tive powers—the judges however agreed to exe
cute the law as couimiflioners.
A meflage was received from the Senate by
Mr. Secretary Otis, informing the House thatthe
President of the United States has notified the
Senate that the acl for altering the times of hold
ing the circuit court in certain dittricfts of the
United States—and the art: concerning Consuls
and Vice Consuls, have received his approbation
and signature.
A second meflage from the President of the
United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, informed
the House that the adl apportioning reprefenta
tjves according to the fir It enumeration, has re
ceived the President's approbation and lignature.
In committee of the whole on the bill entitled,
" An acft to regulate procefles in the courts of the
"United States, and providing compensations for
the officers, jurors and witnelles. Mr. B. Bourne
an the chair.
The committee proceeded through the difcnf
fion of the bill, and agreed to fun dry amend
ments, which were reported, and laid on the
table. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, April 17.
A bill to provide for calling forth the militia
to execute the laws, fupprels infurretflions, and
repel invasions, was read twice, and committed
for Thursday next.
The committeeon the memorial of J. Ceracchi,
brought in a report, in which, after reciting a
xefolution of the Congress under the late confe
deration, for erecting an Equestrian Statue to the
memory of General Washington—the report fays,
That the honor and dignity of government re
quire a speedy execution of the above resolution
—and nominates the Secretary of State, the Se
cretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of
War, to superintend the business—laid on the
table.
Two reports from the Secretary of the Trea
sury were read—the firft Hating the exports of
the several slates—the other refpetfting additi
onal appropriations for the services of the cur
rent year : the lad report was refered to a feledl
committee, with inftrudtions to report a bill—
report to be printed in the interim.
A third report was read from the Secretary
on the memorial of the marine society of Boston,
xefpe&ing a marine hospital—also on a memorial
on the fame fubjetft from Virginia, referred to a
feledl committee confilting of Mr. Ames, Mr.
Sterrett and Mr. Parker—loo copies to be printed.
A report from the Secretary on a number of
petitions was also read, and xoo copies ordered
to be printed.
A petition from W. and J. Symtnes, owners of
the/hip Brothers, cast away on her voyage from
.New-York to Philadelphia, praying to be dis
charged from a bond given to the colleiffor of
New York for the duties on the cargo of faiu
ship—read and referred to a select committee.
A petition from in behalf of himfelf
snd other French emigrants, settlers at Gallio
polii—praying a right of exemption ro a traifi of
l*nd on the Miflilfippi, near the French fettle
Went of Illinois, on paying conipenfation for
the fiune ; read & referred to acoinmittee of five.
_ In (jftminittee of the whole on the bill for rais
ing a farther futn of money for the protetfion
«f the Frontiers.—Mr. B. Bourne in the ehair.
The committee proceeded in the difculfion as
fat as the 6th feftion—and made foine amend
ments—they then rose and reported progress.
A meflage by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed the
Honfe that the Senate
Have pafled an a<ft, authorizing the grant and
conveyance of a certain tra<fl of land to the Ohio
Company of Aflociates, with an amendment.
Adjourned.
SHIP NEWS.
AR-RIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Trimmer, Murphy,
Virginia, De May,
, Neptune, Appiebcan,
Nancy, Strofbury,
Schooner Sans Souci, Crozier,
Lawrence, Perry,
.Merrick,
Noop John, Thatcher,
Two Brothers, Mjrlin,
' Cleopatra, Bacon,
.P. W. Henry, "While,
'
„ JL,, ATTHE FIKST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city o( Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
lylvania, Monday the twcnty.fouhh of oaober, one
thouland (even hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT for fining the Light-House on Bald .
Lead, at the mouth of Cape Fear River, in the
State of North-Carolina.
T>Eit enacted by the Senate and Houfeof Representatives of the
JJ United States of America, in Congress assembled, That th,
fhe C Uni?-fV, , e T y K U "r er ' he dircft,ra ° f ,he P'efident of
r K '' ' autho ' ,fed '" foo" « ™ay be, tocaufe to be
nniihed m such manner as (hall appear advilable, the I.ight-Houfe
heretofore begun under the authority ot the state of North-Caro
lina, on Baldhead, at the mouth of Cape-Fear river in the said
tate : And that a sum, not exceeding four thousand dollars, be
appropriated tor the lame, out of any monies heretofore appropri
ated, which may remain unexpended,after fatisfying the purposes
for which they were appropriated, or out of any other monies
which maybe in the Treasury, not fubjea to any prior appro-
A PARAGRAPHIST in the Gazette of the
-tk United States, whose remarks have been
copied into some of the public prints, would
gravely persuade us that those who write against
the measures of government, are no more than
' a dozen persons!' It is well he is candid enough
to allow there are even twelve honeil men in
America, who still preach up found dodtrine
But it is alked, whether the apoltles of the con
trary dotSrine amount to half that number ?
From the dull famenef3 of the style, it may be
presumed, that small indeed is the number of
those worthy gentlemen,who employ their leaden
pens in eking out those drowsy fulfome panegy
rics upon government, which every body now
begins to smoke, and the high-fliers themfelvcs
can hardly read without a sneer.
" A man's foes jhall be those of his own hou/hold.
By the Ship Manchejler, Capt. Clay, arrived in this
port, European accounts are received to the 2Jth
February.
A letter from the Minister of the interior de
partment of Paris, Feb. 14th, states, that reports
are abroad which fill with anxiety and terror the
minds of well disposed citizens; and that the
enemies of the constitution are employed in
spreading alarms among the people. Proper
measures are pursuing to prevent the public tran
quility from being disturbed.
Jealousies appear to be entertained of the new
Minister of War by the National Afletnbly. The
officers of the regiment de Soiflonnois, excepting
five, have deserted, and quitted the kingdom.
Rumors of a counter-revolution continue—and
the accounts add, that the Emperor has declared
that he takes the French emigrants under his
protection ; and has transmitted to them the sum
of two millions, &c.—lt may be observed here,
that similar reports have been in circulation for
two years pad !—The populace of Dunkirk have
wrecked their vengeance on the monopolizers of
corn, and have destroyed nine houses—as usual
in such cases, foine innocent persons fuffered in
their property with the guilty—the military put
a (top to their depredations, and dispersed the
rioters.
Eight millions two hundred thousand pounds
of the capital of the British debt, is stated to have
been paid off since the peace.
in 1783, their Imports
w,£ t _
./vete valued at £. 13,825,000—111 1790, £. 19,130,000
Exports, £. 14,741,000 —in 1790, £. 20,120,000
111783 —Ships entered, 7690 —ini79o, 12,292
Ships cleared, 7329 —in 1790, 12,760
Imports in 1782, were in value 9,714,000]. —
they had been gradually riling, and amounted in
the year 1790, which was the latest account made
up of the imports, to 19,130,0001. Thevalueof
the exports of British Manufactures in the year
1783, was 9,109,0001. —in the following year,
10,409,0001. —in the year 1 790, 14,921,000k —and
in 1791, the accounts of which were jult made
up, 16,420,000!.
C. Francois
Malaga
Liverpool
Surinam
Virginia
Shelburnc
Nantucket
In the year 1791, the revenue proves to be
above the expenditure on the peace eftabli/hment,
one million nine hundred thoufaud pounds !
Boston
St. Kitts
N. Carolina
The bill for the relief of the Roman Catholics
11 Ireland, has been thrown out by a great ma
ority.
Bermuda
Ifcwburyport
SECOND CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of RepreJ'entatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejident of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
APPROVED APRIL THE SECOND, 1792.
GEORGE WASfiINGTON,
President of the United States.
FROM THE NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Philadelphia, April iB.
407
The National Assembly has decreed thar all
o diers composing the King's body guard, ihould
take an oath—to be faithful to the nation, tht law
and the king—to maintain tht Conjtitutiori of tin
kingdom— to watch over the f-curity of th? Kin?' j
psrfon, and to obey no order or rtquifithh foreiyf la
thf pll rpofe jor which th c y were embodied.
™. g ".rC is not to follow the King, if he
eltablilhes his residence more than twenty lei t UC .s
from the place of the Afletnbly's meeting, "land
on no account whatever are they to attend him
out of the kingdom.
1 he spirit of freedom has eroded the Pyrenees.
The eagerness to procure information rei'pe&ino
the French Revolution, and the difcufiions which"
in consequence of that event, took place in Spain'
have given the alarm to Government. All French
books are prohibited, even the Medical Journal
of Paris: They seem as if they would wiih toin»
terdid: the language itfelf, fuice it has become
the vehicle of the sentiments of freedom.
A loan, on account of the United States, has been recently ne
gotiated at Amsterdam, of Six Millions Florins, at five per cent,
and another in Antwerp of Thr'ee Millions, at four and an half
per cent.
By accounts from Georgia, it appears that the Indian line,
agreeable to the treaty with the Creeks, will be (hortly run—and
that there is a fair profpeft of a continuance of peace with that na
tion. Mr. M'Gillivray was expetled at the Rock-Landing the
141 h March.
An article under the Paris head, fays the King has several timrj
rode through the different quaiteis ot the city, accompanied only
by one officer, the commandant of the guard—he has perforially
infpefted all the markets and (lores. In thete excursions he every
where met the mod affe&ionate demonstrations of loyalty.
Dr. Piieftley loft thirteen manuscripts when his house was de
stroyed by the rioters of Birmingham—some of them tranferibed
and ready for the press.
Some murders have been recently committed by the Indians a\
a small station between Bellpix and Bellville, on the weft fide of
the Ohio. The wife and three children of one Deliverance Brown,
were, it is said, the unfortunate vi&ims on this occasion. The
Cornplanter has given fre(h afl'urances of his own and people's
attachment to the United Stales.
Major Butlsr, who was badly wounded in the engagement on
the 4th November, has arrived at his farm near Carlille, and we
have the pleasure to hear, is in a fair way ot recovery.
The dealers in the public funds have come to a rcfolution not
to attend any public falcs of (locks in this city, until by a general
meeting it (hail be thought proper to determine otherwifc.
Capt. Belcher, ot the (loop commerce, arrived at Philadelphia
from Cape-Francois, failed the 24th ult. informs that three days
previous to his departure, the National troops had an engagement
with the Blacks, killed about 600 of them, amongll which were
two white men commanders; that two thousand.troops were ar
rived the day before he failed, and more daily expe&ed.
At an Election tor managers for the Humane Society for the
present year, held on Wednesday lad at the Dii'penfary, the fol
lowing petfons were chosen :
Doctor Benjamin Rush,
Caspar Wiftar,
Benjamin Say,
Peter S. Glentwortb,
William Clarkfon,
John Hopkins,
John Crukfhank,
, Samuel Pancoaft, jun.
Robert Paridi,
Caleb Lownes,
Charles Martha]],
Joseph Lownes,
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
" In the day of prosperity rejoice—in the day of adversity
consider"—is a divine injunction : when peace succeeded and
crowncd the glorious contest for liberty and independence, the
people of the United States gave an unbounded scope to their im
agination ; and from anticipating an uninterrupted series of pros
perity they plunged into scenes of luxury and extravagance but
the triumph of folly was (hort—debts public and piivate soon
brought us to sober reflection ; the result was the adoption of the
new fyflem of government—(ince the creation, a greater cfiange
for the belter, was never known in the circumstances of any peo
ple ; and so far from being an imputation on the government, or
itsadminiftration, are the few clouds at the present moment
flitting in the Iky of our political horizon, that when the fun
of reason shall have dissipated them, our public prosperity will
through their intervention be more permanently established.
The present however is considered by the enemies of our fede
ral union as a favorable opportunity to promote their views and
if the people can be brought to believe that their senses deceive
them, and that those who build up and preserve are their enemies,
and that those whose talents extend no further than to full down
and destroy are the only patriots of the country —our profpetU
will be evanescent indeed.
When it shall become criminal to support the government
which the people establish—when those who traduce and ma
lign that government (hall be considered as friends to the people
—when those who diileminate principles subversive of public
honor and private faith—and by anticipating the public judgment,
preclude a fair investigation of truth, palm themselves on the peo
ple as patriots—when the foundations of virtue are attacked by
reprefeniations which tend to deltroy all refpeft for character pro
feffions and abilities, by blending in one undiftinguilhed mas»
knaves, rogues and honed men—when such is the state of things
in any community, the harvest of the sons of anarchy and rapine
If foreign nations had not an higher opinion of the Government
of the United States than certain persons among ourselves, whoaf
fume to themselves (with what propriety, time will fliew) the name
of patriots, we might solicit loans to eternity without effect.
The demon of slander broke loose last summer—but being
frowned upon by a discerning public, he retreated to his den;
where, for the honour of our country, and human nature, it w.is
to be hoped he would have reposed in silence and oblivion—buc
some restless, envious spirit, has disturbed his repofc; and the
fiend having broken his chain, has commenced his woik of lie»
and detraction in an attack on certain personages, with (it is
lhrewdly fufpefted) the laudable defignof fubveiting the attach
ment of the people to the Union and government of the Hates, by
fowir.g divisions among those who adminider our affairs, and
thereby rendenng them odious to the people. May the nefari
ous dcfigns be blalted.
There are some men who pretend to love their country better
than themselves; but they hate every thing done to promote its
happinels that is not of their own proje&ing.
" It is easier to find faults than to mend This is an
old, but just remark ; we eveiy day fee it verified in the conduit,
of thole who with the greateil eal'e can fpeediiy dctnoiifti what :c
coil the labor of years to ere&.PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
PER QUANTITY
April 18.—-Dollars 100 Centsesch.
ANCHORS pr.lb. ;cßc
Allum, fcnglilh, pr.c. 73c
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11c
Alhes, pot, per ton, 100 d
Peari, 137^140*/
Arrack pr. gall, id 33c id 6jc
Brandy, common, id 26c
Cogrnac id 6cc
Braziletto, pr. ton. $cd
Bricks, pr. M. 4 d §d
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. id 80c 2d
Ditto, pilot 3d6jc
Ditto, final 1 water 36c 40c
Beer, American, in *] ,
bot.pr.doz. but. incl. J 1
pr. bbl. 67c
n f Oak pr.M feet, 9 d 10d
0 j Merch. pine 16d i"jd
<( Sap, do. &d 50c 9d
3 | N. £ng. nd
L Cedar 14d
The above are the Shallop prices
Jor the Yardpjices add id 33
pr. M.
y flonern' 1 -
rimftone rolls pr.cwt. 3 d
- C Irilh pr. bbl,
j < Boston
3 ( Country
Butter pr. lb
in kegs
£ r S P". pr. li
>-1 | Wax
p Myrtle Wax
j Mould,tallow
rj iOv
Cheese, Englifli, pr. lb. 19c
Country Bcicc
Chocolate 17 c 18c
Cinnamon 2d 40 c 2d 67c
Cloves *d 33c
7 d 8 d
6 d 7 d
10c 12c
53 c
>3 C
IIC
Coal pr. bushel 20c 22c
Coroa pr. cwt. 14 d 33 c
Coffee pr. lb. 18c
Copperas pr. cwt. \d67c
Cordage *d6ic%d
Cotton pr. lb. 3 oc 4 2C
Currants »3 C
Duck, Russia, pr. pierc 11^33*:
Ravens 8d 93c yd 67c
Feathers pr. lb- 40c 44c
Flax toe
85c 90 c
5 d 6c
74 c
Flax feed pr. bush.
Flour, Super, pr. bbl
Common,
Bur middlings,beft 4d 13c
Meal, Indian 2d 67c
Ship-ftuff pr.cw. id 1 33 r
Fustic pr. ton, 20d
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe,
Do. pr. gall. Bcc
Glue, pr. cwt. 9.0 d 2id 30c
Ginger, whiterace 7^7 d 33 c
Ditto, common 7d 2cc
Ditto, ground pr. lb. gc
Ginseng, 2cc 24 c
Gunpowder, can-) , .
noTi, pr. q. c. \ 0
Ditto, fine glared 4d
f Wheat pr. bu(h 95c 1 d
Rye
£ I Oa<s 26c
«( Indian corn 40c 44c
Barley 90c iocc
Best (helled pr. Ib. 3c
Buckwheat per bulb. 40c
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, 120 d 146.67 c
American, pr. lb. 4 c 5c
Herrings, pr.bbJ. 2d67c
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9 c i\c
Hops 97c
Hogthead hoops, pr. M
Indigo, French lb. \dioc \d33c
Carolina 40c id
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 c/ 33c
f Callings pr. cwt
£ j Bar pr.ton, 67c
O Pig 67c
S | Sheet 173</ 33c
Nail qCid
Junk, pr. cwt. 4d
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9 c ioc
Lead in pigs pr.c.
in bars 7d
Lead, white \od\od67c
red 6d 40c 6d 6;c
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 17c 20c
Lignum vitse pr. ton, §d 60c 6d
Logwood 24^
Macc pr. lb. yd 33c 67c
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. gd
• fVcond quality 6d 67c
Madder, bed pr. lb. i6r 20c
Marble.wrought, pr.f.
Mafl spars 33c 67c
MolasseS pr.gall. 44c 48c
Mustard per. lb. 87c
Mahogany pr. foot, 10c
Ntfils, todizd and 20d 10c
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7d 8d
r Linfced, pr. gall. 54c
I Olive 87c
J Ditto pr. cafe, 2d 50c
, I Bcft sweet in ) ,
*-> < flafks.pr.box }
® —baskets 12 bottles $d
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
Train 24C27C
_ Whale 22c 28c
Porter pr. cask, $d 33c
London,pr.doz. id6oc
Porter, American ) .
pr.doz. bo;.inch J
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 31, 1 792. J
NOTICE is hereby given. That the interelt for the quarter
ending this day,on the FUNDED DEBT ot the United States',
(landing on the books of theTreafurv, and of the Commiliionrr of
Loaijs {01 this State, will be paid at the Bank of the United Stales.
(ep.tf) '
id 73 c 2d
11433 c
ic d
9 U
1. 73 c
44 c 47c
16c
Fitch, pr. bbl i
¥oi£, Burluigion,
. '■■Lower couniy
— Carolina
Pe*«,Albany pr. bu(h,
PtppSr, pr. lb.
Piniento
Kaifins, bcft, pr. keg 7d
Ditto pr.jar 3^
Ditto pr. box 4^
R«ce pr. cwt. 67c
Rolin pr. bl)l. S,ds%cidbjc
C Jamaica pr. gall. 112 c
I Antigua i° ot
? J Windward 86f 9 0t "
1 Barbadoes 77 c
1 Country, 6 7c
ialt petre, pr. cwt. 13J 33c 14^
aflafra's pr. ton 6d 8d
Ihot \\od
j pr. lb. 9<
j )Englifh, blistered cwtio./
- j American pr. ton 113d-yy
o (Crowley's pr. fag 10J67
it-
Snake root pr. lb. 20c 42
Soap, Brown 6.
White 5 8<
Castile ii<
Starch 7<
Snuff pr. doz. hot. 4d $d 6o(
Spermaceti, refined, 484:
Sail cloth, English,"] o g f
No 1, per yard, J
Boston, No. I. 3 0t
No. 11. 29 c
Ruflia faceting, pr.p. 12J
C Lump, pr. lb 22t
; Loaf, Tingle refined 25*
£<| Ditto, double do. 36
_ y--
j Havanoah, white 17c 18c
w5 j Ditto, brown, 15 C
L Mufco.pr.cwt 14^i6(/33 c
Spirits Turpentine p. g. 33c37c
f Allum pr. bufti.24C27f
j jLiverpool 29c
< J Cadiz 23c 24c
4/5 (Lisbon 27c
Ship build. W.O.T lidl3d
frames p. ton, J 0
Do. X. O. »33c 167 c
red cedar, p. f. 33 c 40c
gles, fh. p. M. 2d 33c 2d 67
long &rcfTed 12^13^33^
Do.
Shin;
Do. 1
:ling, heart, 2 3 </33 c
—Sap 8d 8d 6y c
Scanl
r Pipe pr. 1000 30 d
2 j W. O. hogthead 19d 33c
> J R. O. do. 19d50c
< j Lcogan 16d
Barrel io d
[.Heading 26J 67c
f Otter, best pr. pie. 4^67c
I Minks 20c 40c
I Fox, grey 40c 80c
red
Martins
« < Fifticr?
Bears
id 20c
24c id
33' 6 7 c
3d
"J I
Racoons 27c 00c
J Mulk-rat» 11c 20c
I Beaver, pr. lb. 67c id 33c
Deei, in hair 20c 30c
Tar,N. Jcrfcy, 24 gal. p. bbl. id
—Carolina, 32 gall. \d^
Turpentine pr. bbl. id 67c 2d
< James R. bed 3 d 60e 73 c
£ inferior 2d67c 3d
g old 4 d 67^
Rappahannock 2d 50 csd
q Colo.Maryland Sd
U Dark 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2d 4cc
cq Eastern-shore s*/ 23c
O Carolina,new 2d yc <id
f- I old do*
f Hyson pr. lb.
go i Hyson fk'.n, 53 c 67c
< Souchong, s oc 93c
H I Congo, 43c 50c
30c 34*"
Tallow, refined 9 c
Tin pr. box, 33c 67c
Tar,
—C;
Tur
Veidigreafe pr. lb. 47* S3 C
Vermillion
Varnish, '33c 37c
j" Madeira, pr.p. ic6*f 200*/
j Lisbon g6diood
I Teneriffe, pr. gal. 51C60C
b) I Fa y al 49 c
7* J Port pr. p. 106*/67 c i2od
TZ Do. m bottles.pr. doz.
Claret 4d 6d
Sherry pr.gall. goc
Malaga 77c Bor
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25c 27c
Whale-bone,long pr.Jb. 13^30^:
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 davs 8i) „ ,
60 days JC Plunder
30 oays 6f )
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder,
90 days
Government bills, drawn at 10
days per 11 guilders, 44c
France, 60 davs Bjc
ADVERTISEMENT.
TO comprize in the present volume of this Gazette all the
Laws which are and may be enacted by Congress in the present session,
it will ke necejfary to extend the numbers to the lafl of May. The fourth
volume, therefore, will commence with the beginning of June and wih
be printed on paper of larger aimenfions than the present, provided the
Editor's receipts of arrearages\fhdll enable him to do it-—the price to con
tinue at Three Dollars per annum.
Three years are nearly expiredJince this publication firjl made its ap
pearance; during which, fcarcelj a f n gle ,7 [ft ance i as occurred of re
mijfnefs in punctually dijpatching the papers Jrom the Printing-Office
their failures in reaching the subscribers, have been owing to causes
which were entirely beyond the controul of the publfher. Under the
new regulations oj thje Pofl-Ofjicc Department, the Subscribers for the
Gazette of the United States may therefore promise thcmfelves
the advantage of the flriflejl punctuality on the part of the Editor
which, aided by that energy we have the greatcfl reason to expett will
diflinguifh the fupcrintendance oj the Gentleman now at the head oj the
Pofl-Ofjice Department, will ensure a Jleady transmission of Newspapers
to all parts of the Union.
Bank of the United States.
March 21, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby are, au
thorised to compleat their Shares by payment at any lime
before the periods required by the law of incorporation.
Resolved, That each Share so compleatcd, (hall be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits of the BanK, from and after the firft
dav of the month next succeeding the day of compleating such
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's imereft upon the Pub
lic Debt transferred to compleat any Share as aforefaid, as (hall
have accrued before the firft day of the month next succeeding the
completion of such Share, (hall be received by the Bank, and paid
to the persons who (hall have transferred the fame.
By order of the President and DireQors,
(eptiftj) JOHN KEAN, Cafkier.
At a meeting of ibi Directors of the Bank of
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Discount and Deposit be
authorised to receive of Stockholders the 3d and 4'h Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock of the Bank, and
that the Calhiets of the said offices give duplicate receipts for such
payments, one of which receipts, accompanied with evidence ot a
transfer of public debt fufficient to complete said (hares, upon be
ing produced at the Bank, (hall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for full (hares, and to all the benefits of the Resolutions
of the Board of Dire£lors palled the 21ft inltant, relative to com
pleting (hares by payment at any time before the periods requited
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the Frefidcnt and Directors.
JOHN KEAN, Cajhier.
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
OF a LOT in this Citv, to be designated by impartial judgrs,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party; will be given by the Commif
(ioncrs of thfe Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July, 1792, (hall produce to them the mod ap
proved PLAN, it adopted bv them, for a CAPITOL, tobe ere&ed
in this City ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
shall adopt. The building to be of biidk, and to contain the fol
lowing apartments, to wit
A Conference Room
A Room for the Ri
per ions each. ! to be of
A Lobby or Antichatn»->er to the latter { full eleva-
A Senate Room of 1200 square feet area | tion.
An Antichamber or Lobby to the last J
12 Rooms of 600 square feet area each, for Committee Rooms and
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Drawings will be expc&ed of the ground plats, elevations of
each fiont, and fcttions through the building in such diredhoris
as may be necessary to explain the internal ftru£lure; and an esti
mate of the cubic feet of brick-work composing the whole tnafs
of the walls.
March 14, 1790
WASHINGTON, in the Tnrritory of Columbia
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com
miflioners of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, (hall produce to them the mod ap.
proved PLAN, if adopted bythem.fora PRESIDENT'S HOUSE,
to beerefied in this Citv. The fneof the building, if the artist
will attend to it, will of course influence theafpeft and outline of
his plan ; and it's destination will point out to him the number,
size, and diffribution of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of it may be detached and
erected for the present, with the appearance of a complete whole,
and be capable of admitting the additional parts, in future, if they
shall be wanting. Drawings will beexpc&edof the ground plats,
elevations of each front,and feftions through the building, in such
directions as may be neccflary to explain the internal ftruflure ;
and an estimate of the cubic feet of brick-work composing the
whole mass of the walls.
March 14, i7Q«.
STOLEN,
WITHIN a few days last pad, from the Subscriber, the fol
lowing NOTES, iflued by ihe Treasurer of the Common.
wealth of Mallachufctts : No. 18721, Dec. i, 1783, £.72 15,
payable to Phineas Lyman ; No. 18375, Nov. 1, 1783, 36 4,
payable to William Lyon; No. 1301, Dec. 1, 1781, £.80 9,
payable to Nathan! f i. Wright j No. 16239. Au g- 1783,
£ .28 16—No. 71, o£t. 1, 1781, £.48 1, payable to Do6for
Samuel Ware.
Whoever will apprehend and secure the Thief or Thieves, so
that he or they may be brought to justice, shall receive a reward
of Twenty Doliars; and whoever will produce the above
Notes, and return them to the fubferiber, (ball receive a reward
of One Hundred Do liars, and all neceflary charges.
Precaution having been taken to prevent their ever being paid
to the thief or Thieves by the Treasurer abovementioned : All
persons therefore are captioned not to purchase the above Notes,
of any one offering them for sale.
37 Jr
36 ! ;C
Northampton, Fgh. 2Q, 1792.
Public Securities,
Roucht and Sold, on COMMISSIO N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Cliefout-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
408
fuffir.irnt to ac-")
> commodate3oo | thcCe rooms
} -LI-
atives
.cpre'
// • THE COMMISSIONERS.
THE COMMISSIONERS.
4t NATH. WRIGHT.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON, Bo&kfe/Jer,
At the Stone House in Sccond-Street,
The First Volume of
HISTORIC J L COLLECTIONS:
Consisting ot state papers, and other authentic document
intended as materials tor an Hiftorjr ©f the United States'
OF America,
By EBENEZER HAZARD, a. M
Member of the American Plnlofophical Society, held at Philadel
phia for promoting ufefui knowledge; and Fellow of ihe Ame
rican Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The design of this compilation being to preserve and exhibit a
regular (fries of the moll important and authentic documents re.
lating to the history of America, from its discovery by Columbus
to the present time, it mult be peculiary interesting to all who w:(h
to acquire a thorough knowledge of this fubjt_&,
April 4.
F Q R SALE,
BLOOMSBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in New-Jcrfey, occupied for many years paftby
the subscriber; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, belides
a tra& of wood-Jand of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main street leading from
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly pait being arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the said street 011 the east, and by the nver on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combmcd etfed of fim
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the molt
beautiful and desirable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-finifhcd brick building, 50 by 40, corttaining four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extenlive and plcafmg vitw.oE
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements <>u
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings are 3 new ftonr
coach-house and stables, fufticient to conrain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining there is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a stone cow-houle, upwards of i©o feet in length,
contaiumg thirty-one paved flails, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, &c. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
state of culture, and abounding with a rich collection of the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and several large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the man-
Gon-houfe, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, well
built, ltone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheefe-roow,
spring-house, garden, See. a complete stone smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
cefTary out-building. The ground is properly divided into fmil
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chiefly under thi
most approved grass. This square has produced annually, for fe
vera! years past, upwards of lixty tons of the best hay, beftdt
supporting through the summer season twenty to thirty hornci
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains alio two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper season?
with great phnty of all kinds of fifh usually found in frefti watt
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both of whic!
may afford a p.leafing amusement to the sportsman, as well as
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his tabic. Tb
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and divide
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar post:
and ravls of ch. ftiut and white cedar. The purchakr may hav
the improved square fcparately, or the whole together, as ma
best fijit him.. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good build
ing stone on the river shore. The purchase money, if well secured
and the interest pun&ually paid, will not be demanded for mao
years.
Any peifon desirous of viewing the premises, may be gratified
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. Trenton,
or Mr. Inallman, who at prcfent occupics the tarm-houleand
part of the lano—and may know the price oh application to the
lubfcriber, a* No. 213, South Second-street, opposite to the New-
Market, in Philadelphia. JOHN COX.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Wa rehouse, two doorj
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New Factory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general aflort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englifti workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to nianufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrefled to either ot the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
flirted notice. ~
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the laid
Mines, where conitant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, an
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Moses Austinocl-o.
at their FaCtory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
INFORMATION. .
A NEGRO MAN by the name of CATO VERNOV> born
1 JL. in Newport (Rhodc-Ifland) eHlifted in Col. Greene s fg 1
merit of Blacks, early in the late War. He furvivedthe ar ' a!
fettled, as fuppoled, in or near Philadelphia. If he wii >PP 7
to thelEditor hereof, ho will be informed of fomcthing cotu <■
rably to his advantage. April 4. ( c Pj^
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
State-Street, BOSTON,
BUY and sett every kind of the Stocks of the
Commiflion, by Private Contrail, and Public Au 1 13
Those gentlemen who may be pleased to favor them wit
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
Eoflon y March, 1792. (i aW 3
THE Editor of the Gazitte ef the United Statu, »l/|
earneflly r/cqnefti that those of his fubfenbers, zchofe arrearage
been accumulating for more than twelve months, would make pi)
soon as pofji'ole—at farthefl, £<r/tfr£ frfl day oj June next.
Those persons who/hull beSfpofed to patronize this Gazette
the Poft-Oftcc Lawfhall go into operation i willpleaje tofg*'!>
intention to the Deputy Post-Masters in the bnited States, 0
requeued to forwardJuchfulfcriptions as may be received, to the
previous to the faidfrfi of June. The terms
Three Dollars per annum, exclufve of poflage—Cr.eha Jto t?
the time offubferibing, the other hats te be advanced at, tie exp
the frfl fx months.
« Vw
?-•
♦
(ep.xro)