- ifv
i- v j -• - - • / .//
r
[No. 4, of Vol. IV.],
JUVT PUBLISHED,
AMD TO EE SOLD (PRICE ICf.)
By HAZARD and ADDOMS,
At the corner of Third & Chefnut streets,
HISTORY
New-Hampshire,
Containing; a ideographical cfrcfr.ription of the
Slate—with (ketches of its natural hiltory, pro
<Ju£fions, improvements, and present ftaic of fo
cietv and manneis, laws government
Jeremy Be i. knap, A.M.
This volume compleats the history, and is
peculiarly interesting, *-Subscribers are delired
to rail for their books.
RuN AWAY from the luptcriber, Jtving in
Kent Countv, and State of Maryland, on
Sunday the May last, a NEGRO MA N,
named Hark ; about 40 year's of age, about five
feet nine inches high, has a fear o*er one of his
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs his head on
one fide, and looks up—had on and took with
him the following cloaths, viz. a fearnought coat,
a black and white kerfcy coat, cut round, a white
ket fey jacket and breeches, two pair of yarn (lock
ings, the one pair lately footed, and the other not,
two oznaburgh Ihirts. each pieced on one fide,
two pair of tow-linen trowfeis, one pair patched
with new tow-linen down the fore parts, and an
old felt hat.
Whoever takes up said Negro, if out of this
State. ?nd secures him in gaol, shall receive FOUR
TEEN* DOLLARS reward—and if taken within
this and secured as aforcfaid, shall receive
EIGHT DOLLARS reward ; and it brought
home, realonable expences will be paid by
PEREGRINE LETHRBURY
Ch'Jicr-To-vn, June 4, 1791- 8w )
THE following feehons of the act entitled,
4< An ast for raising a further sum of money
for the protection of the frontiers, and for
other purposes therein mentioned, are repub
lifhed for the information of all persons, who,
on the 29th day of Jnne next (1792) shall be
pofTcfTcd of WINES.
" SeJt. 10. A ND be it further enacted, That
jljl all Wines which after the said
last day of June next, shall be imported into the
United States, shall be landed under the care of
the infpeftor of the port where the fame shall be
landed, and for that purpose, every permit for
landing any Wines, which shall be granted by a
Collector, shall, prior to such landing, be pro
duced to the said infpettor, who, by endorsement
thereupon under his hand, shall fignify the pro
duction thereof to him, and the time when, af
ter which, and not otherwise, 011 pain of forfei
ture, it lliall be lawful to land the said Wines.
And the said infpeiftor shall make an entry of
all such permits, and of the contents thereof, and
each pipe, butt, hogshead, cask, cafe, box or
package whatsoever, containing such "Winds,
lhill be marked by the officer under whole im
mediate inipe<stion the fame shall be landed, in
legible a;ul durable characters, with prpjgreiSve
numbers, the name of the said officer, and the
quality or kind of Wine as herein before enu
merated and diftinguilhed. And the said officer
shall grant a certificate for each such pipe, butt,
liogfkead, cask, cafe,box or package, fpecifying
therein the name or names of the importer or
importers, the ship or veflel in which the lame
shall have been imported, and the number there
of, to accompany the fame wheresoever it shall
be Tent. And if any pipe, butt, hogshead, cask,
cafe, box or package, containing Wine, fhailbe
found without such marks ar.d certificates, the
fame (hall be liable to be seized, and the want of
fuch'marks and certificates shall be preemptive
evidence, that such Wine was unlawfully im
ported and landed."
" ?e&- 11. And be it further enabled, That
•very person, who lhall have in his or her pof
feflion, Wiues which arc intended for sale, in
quantity exceeding one hundred and fifty gal
lons, iliall prior to the fa ; d fact day of June next,
make entry thereof in writing at some office of
infpe&ion in the city, town or county where he
or Hie shall rellde, fpecii'ying and describing the
casks, cases, boxes and other packages contain
ing the fame, and the kinds, qualities and qua:**
tities thereof, and where,and in whose pblTeflion
they are ; and the oiiicerof inlpedlion,at whose
office such entry may be made, lhall, as soon as
may be thereafter, visit and infpedl, or cause to
be visited and infpe&ed, the Wines so reported,
and lhall mark,or cause to be marked, the calks,
cases, boxes and packages containing the fame,
with prog re (tive numbers, with the name of the
person to whom the fame may belong, the kind
or kinds thereto/", and wprds u Old Stock," and
fiiaU grant a certificate for each calk, cale, box
V- package containing such Wine, describing
therein tue said call:, cafe, box or package, and
the Wines therein contained, which certificate
lhall accompany the fame, wherever it may be
sent. And if any person who may have Wines
in his or her ppffeflion for sale, lhall not, prior to
the said last day of June next, makpentry there
of, as abo ve directed, he or Ihe, for such omiiHon
or neglect, lhall forfeit and pay the value of the
Win 6 omitted to be entered, to be recovered
with colts of suit, for the benefit of any person
who lhall give information thereof, and the
Wines so omitted to be entered, lhali be for
lfs;ited.,, (ept29)
A NATIONAL PAPili, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATUKDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO. No. 60, HJG ITS IRF.F.T, PHILADELPHIA
THE
Vol. 11l
Wednesday, June 13, 1792.
WHEREAS it ?ppear>, by the proceedings in
* catrfenow dt p. tiding in die
Court of Chancery in inland, wherein William
Webb is rhe plaintiff, and John Porker (the exe
cutor of Thomas Bradley, deceased) is the defen
dant that Henry Wf.bb was pur out apprentice
by the School, for the £en service, in or
about the year 17 and who was then of the age
of 14 years, or thereabouts, snd failed from Eng
land in the year 1776, to some part of North-
America, in the ship or vcffcl railed the ArtemiflTa,
Captain Llewellyn, formerly a Spanilh Trader, and
at that time a Navy Victualler or Transport, in
his Majesty's service. And whereas it appears
that the fa:d Henry Webb defer ted and run away
Irom the said fti.por velTVl. and entered on board
a certain privateer or vefTel, called the Revnge,
or Vengeance Privateer, of which one John Dean
was then matter or commnndcr, then lyinjr in
New-York, in Nonh-America ; and that the said
Vengeance Privateer, on or about the sth of No
vember, 1779, failed from New-York, aforefaid to
Savannah, and arrived at fiich last mentioned place
in or about the month of March, 1780, and failed
from thence in the said month of March, or in the 1
month of April following, to some portor plaee in
America, but to what poit or place is not known ;
and that in the Month of May, 1780, the said fttip
or vefTel was lecri at Piarbadoes, in the We(l-Tn- j
dies, but the said Henry Webb hath not since been \
heard of, and is fqppofed to be dead, it having
been reported that the Tender belonging to the
laid ship or velfel callcd the Vengeance, which
ship was then commanded by Captain Knowles,
with a number of her men, to the amount of so,
or thereabout among whom the said Henry
Webb is supposed to be one) were ta'ken by the
enemy, and carried into Philadelphia.
NOW, in purfu.ince of an order made in the
said cause, bearing date the 3d day of December,
1790, any pcrlon or persons who can give any ac
count or information touching the said Henry
Webb, or of the laid (hip V. ngeance, or whe(he r
ihc said Henry Webb is living or dead, and if
dead, when and where he died, are required to
give such accoupt or information to William
Well br Pe py s, Esq. one of the Maflers of the
said Courf, at his Chambers, in Svmonds-Inn,
Chancery-Lane, London, on or before the 6ih day
Oj November, 179?.-— and such pe'rfon or uerfons
will be rewarded for their trouble by applying to
Mr. Samuel Nay lor, the follicitor in the cause,
at No. 4, Great Newport-Sueet, London ; or to
the Rev. John Stanford, No. 46, William-
Street, New-York; or to John Prettyjohn,
Esq. Bridge-Town, Barbadoes.
(3"'pw) W. W. PEPYS.
Wm. CLE LAND,
BOSTON,
Tranfa&s business in the Funds of the United
States ;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &c.
Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
with' Diligence and Punctuality.
June 1
PHILADELPHIA.
4f a meeting of the Committee appointed by the Ameri
can Philofophica!Society Jor the purpose of
cr,d. communicating to the Society materials for form
ing the Natural Hijlory of the infeti called the
Hefjian- Fly, as also information of the be ft means of
preventing or aeflroying the JnfeS, and whatever etfi
relative to the fame may be inter ejlir.g to Agfi.
culture :
RESOLVED that, for obtaining information ol
the lasts necessary for foi ming the natural his
tory ot this infect, before its entire cvanifhinent
from among us, it be iccominended 1.0 all persons
whofc situation may have brought them into ac
quaintance with any such ta& to communicate the
lame by letter addrefled to Thomas Jefferfbh,
Efcj. Secretary of State to the United States.
And that the proper obje&s of inquiry and in
formation may he more particularly pointed out,
the following QuciVions arc proposed.
Section 1. Inwhatyear, snd at ■what time
of the year, was th s animal observed for the firft
time ? Does it fecm to have made its appearance in
this country only of late years, or are there any
reasons for supposing that it was known in any
part of the United Slates previously to the com
rnencemcni of the late revolution ?
Sec. 2. At what time ol the year has this infe£l
beenobferved in the Egg-State ? At what time in
the Worm-State ? And at what t ime in the Fly-
State ? How long does it remain in each of these
several states ? Does it pass through more than one
generation in the course of a year ? If it docs,
which generation of the infc.dt is it that proves moit
injurious ?
Sec. 3. What kind of Wheat does this infe£i
prove most injurious to ? Has it ever been fecn on,
or has it proved dcftruflive to,'the Spelts ? Does
it ever injure the roots of the wheat, &c ? Has it
ever been fecn in the flowers ? Docs it afFtdl the
leaves ? What part of ihe stalk is it chiefly con
lined to ? Has ii ever been known to attack the
grain, or to be 1 rani ported with it ? In what man
ner docs it seem to operate its injurious effects ?
At what season are these effects firft observed to
commence ?
Sec. 4. Does it ever injure the Spring-wheat,
the Barley, the Buck-wheat, and the Oats ? Does
it injure the Rye or the Indian-corn ? It it does,
on what part of these several vegetables does it
chiefly reside ? Dots it inhabit any of the Grasses,
or other.{mailer vegetables, which v e cultivate in
our fields, our meadows, gaidens, &c ? I fit does,
what aie the names of these grafTes, See ? And on
what parts of these vegetables does it chiefly re
10
frde ? llds it ever been obferve-d, in any of its fta-.
pes, iu their flowers ? Has it ever been known to
•jure their feeds ? Does it appear so be molt 'de
tiru6tivc to the grades, See. of the more wet, or to
ihofc of the more dry, (oils ? Has it ever been ob
served upon any of. the larger trees or (hrubsof the
forcil, garden, &c ? If it has, what are the names
of these trees and shrubs ? And what paits ol ihcm
does it commonly aftcft ?
Sec. 5. Does this infe£l seem to havecommitted
depredations on the different grains, but
particularly on the wheat, when sown in one foil
th?n when sown in another ? Thus, for inlfance,
u it ascertained whether this animal has proved
mod deftruttive to wheat which has been sown in
a light artd loose foil, or to that which has been
(own in a fliong and heavy foil ? Do its ravages,
anpear to have been greater or less upon the wheat j
of land which has been recently manured, than
upon the wheat of laud that has never been manu
red stall, or which has not been manured for a
eonfiderable lengih of time ? N. B. All the que
ries of this fettion have alfoa reference to the Rye,
the Oats, the Barley, &c.
Sec. 6. How far has ih» Bearded.-wheat efca
pcd the injuries of this infeffc ? Which variety of
'he Bearded-wheat, the Yellow, the Red, or the
White, has Keen observed to be most exempt from
its injuries ? Has any variety or species of the
: heat entirely escaped the ravages of this infect ?
Sec. 7. Is it pofliblj to afcertain,with'any degree
of Certainty, extent of country which this inft£l
has fravcrfed in a year, or in any other pe
riod of time ? Are iis movements rapid ? Does
it appear that the progress of the infe£l has been,
in any degree, retarded, or obftrufteel, bv rivers,
by mountains, See ? Does it appear that it has pur
sued any general or fixed rou'e through those coun
tries, in which it has b<*en observed, as to the
North, the South, &c ? How far to the North has
it been observed ; How far to the South ? How
Jar to Weft ?
Sec. 8. Have any experiments been made to
demonstrate the degree oi cold which this infect,
in the different stages of its existence, is capable of
supporting ? Is it food for other animals P
Sec. 9. What means have been found most fuc
cefsful for preventing the injuries committed by
this infect,? How t<ir has the prattice of rolling
the wheat and the rye in the autumn and in the
faring been found of service ? Have any good con
fequenccs rdulted from the pra&ice of feeding the
grain close in the spring time ? Has the pra&ice of
■steeping the grain of the wheat, &c. (previously
to its being sown) in infufions of the Elder, and of
other vegetables, found of any fetvice ?
And while the committee alk, with earncftnefs,
information from every person who can answer
anyone or more of the preceding questions, ihey
address themfclves in a peculiar manner lo those
on whose farms this i»(e£t has appeared, praying
that they will give them fnCli details as thev cah
give with certainty, regardlels of the style or form
of theircommunications, since it will be the duty
of the committre to reduce all the faCts receivea
from different pcrfons' into ail <?rdeily narrative,
to be reported to the Society.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, ")
BENJ AM IN. SMITH BARTON/ r
TAMES HUTCHINSON, ( Comm.ttee.
CASPAR WISTAR, )
Philadelphia, April 17, 1792.
[ep\m & \aw2m)
REFLECTIONS on the STATE of the UNION.
Concerning the mavufaElures of the United States, ai
they ajfect the mercantile itterefi.
MANY of the Ihip holders and merchants
trading with foreign countries, suppose,
but it is believed erroneously, that they have
no interell in the promotion of manufactures.
It is known that Great Britain with seventy
millions of acres of cultivated land, (hips four
teen millions (her whole exports being near
twenty millions) in her own maunfaCtures.
The foreign trade of that kingdom, without
manufactures, would manifeftly be neither so
great nor so various—for the value of the pro
duce manufactured is increased from one hun
dred to ten hundred per cent, as is also that of
the imported raw materials, which constitute
a great portion of their trade. The foreign
commerce of the United States, is already enli
vened by manufactures. Ships, boats, oars,and
handspikes, bar iron, steel, nail rods, carriages
of ail kinds, hats, (hoes, cordage, candles, soap,
oils of several kinds, starch, hair powder, dif
tilfcd spirits, malt liqnors, cabinet ware, plate,
puncheon packs, gunpowder, potashes, bricks,
chocolate, mustard, tow linens, fail cloth, pot
ter's ware, fadlery and harnei's, wool and cot
ton cards, paper and paper hangings, tanned
leather, books, fnutf, manufactured tobacco,
and iron manufactures are now frequently ex
ported to foreign countries. Coaftwifc there
is alfp a great trade in these and many other
manufactured articles, and in raw materials
and provisions for the manufacturers within the
United States.
An argument of great importance to the Ihip 1
holder?, exporters, and underwriters, and, in
deed to the cultivators of the earth, in support
' of manufactures is to he drawn from their ten- 1
dejicy to promote in an easy, certain, fafe, and
cheap way, the naval capacities and strength
of the United States. The transportation ,of
provilions, coal, raw materials, and otlier arti
cles from the and middle states to the
northern, and the of the niamifadtures,
FROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
(continued.)
[Whole No. 526.]
to the towns on the coast, througout the union,
already employs many veifels. The rice, indi
go, cotton, hemp, flax, iron, hides, furs, tar,
pitch, turpentine, rozin, wax, tobacco, wood
and timber, flour and grain, (hipped from the
states, on, and to the southward of* the Che fa
peak. for the manufacturers in the middle and
northern states, give employment at this time
to a very refpe&able portion of our tonnage.
This cannot be doubted, when it is remember
ed that our coasters are I io,oo:> tons, though
our veflels in all the foreign trades probably do
not much exceed tons; and the for
mer are entirely out of the reach of foreign re
ftri<ftions,confequently (with tbe fifliing veflels)
are our most certain dependence. The'weight
of this circumstance, will be not a little increas
ed by the recollection that the coasting trade is
uncommonly interesting to a nation without
transmarine colonies or dominions.
When we consider the filheries as one of th«
modes of creating the powers of offence and
defence at sea, and that our agriculture and
commerce, must therefore be supported and de
fended by our fiftiermen, and fifhing veiTels, a
mong other means, it will be fatisfactory to the
cultivators, and merchants, that they will be
promoted by the success of our manufactures.
Skins and furs of sea animals, whalebone, and
the head matter of the whale, are used by vari
ous manufacturers for leather, hats, whips,can*
dies, &:c. The oils are used by leather drelf
ers, shipbuilders, &:c. andinftead of candles.
It will be unneceflarv to adduce to our mer
cantile citizens any arguments to prove, that
the United States generally pay a premium on
the bills purthafed for their remittances for
European manufactures. The exports, sales
of veiTels, their outward freights and the sales
of lands, to foreigners, are the ordinary means
applied to the payments for our imports, after
deducting that part of them which,
to the emigrators, is not to be remittedor paid
for. It is interesting to ascertain the reasons
for our continuing to lose by the course of ex
change. The principal cause probably is, that
we draw so very large a proportion of our ma
nufactures from one nation, that there is con
stantly h double demand for bills on that coun
try. It is of importance to discover how this
is to be remedied. The other Europeans rations
have had the eight \ears of the war almojl exclu/ively
and the vine yean of the pcace in a fair competition and
do not fuppiy us zoith minufailure* equivalent to half of
the Jlatcd value of the shoes made by ourjelves /It ap
pears then, that our own exertion \ only, can re
lieve our merchants from this annual loss, on
their remittances forfeveral millions of dollars.
It may not be improper to take a view of the
article of distilled spirits as a commodity which
we are capable of manufacturing to any extent,
and which will be an aid to agriculture, and an
object of coasting and foreign trade. We have
imported, in a finale year, above eleven milli
ons of gallons of foreign spirits and moUfles.
If one million of gallons of the latter used
in substance, then our imports of spirits and in
j gredients made into spirits, would stand at ten
millions of gallons. The value of thele, as they
cost the country may be fairly taken at one
third of a dollar on a medium, and will give
3*333*333 dollars, which is above one sixth
part of the annual value of our exports. As
five millions of bulhels Qf grain would be con
sumed in the manufa&ory of a quantity of spi
rits equal to what was imported, in the form
of spirits or ingredients employed to make them,
there is no occasion for argument to prove, thati
the lavdediniertji would be benefited by the ma
nufacture of grain liquors (or fruit liquors) in
lieu of tiie ten millions of gallons drawn from
Foreign sources. And in regard to the mercantile
ivterrjl, it may be observed, that the supply of a
foreign conynodity is always precarious, and
accordingly the disturbances in the several parts
ot the French empire, and the loss of their vin
tage, have deprived us of the usual importation
of their brandies since the last: autumn, and of
the accustomed supply of molasses from the crop
of 1792 of their principal colony. Thcfe two
defalcations will probably amount to some mil
lions of gallons, and must produce a void in a
confidcrable branch of our foreign trade, for
we shall not have it in our power to import the
brandies and molafTes, nor to export the returns
for them, which have employed many thousand
tons of shipping, and a considerable part of our
mercantile capital and industry ; nor shall we
be able to export diftilicd spirits, manufactured
from molasses, which has also employed our
vessels, private funds and industry. How are
the merchant and snip holder to be relieved unr
der these injuries to their business ? Manufac-*
turing distilled spirits and malt liquors from na
tive materials will afford considerable relief.
Their capital and vessels mav be employed in
purchasing and tranfportingfrom the rivers and
bays of the United States-to the distilleries and
breweries a part at least of the requisite quan
tities of grain, hops, fuel, and lumber, and of
the manufactured liquors to domefticor foreign
markets. Nor is this a* mere probability. It
is already an 1 existing fact. The manufacture
of grain liquors in the town of Providence (in
Rhode Ifland).alone, in the firft three months of
the prefentyear, was equivalent to 12,056 ca£>
es of geneva per annum. If the Dutch import
grain from the north of Europe, to make and
diftributegin from Archangel to Canton, whichis really the cafe, it cannot be doubted that the
United States, which have the greateit surplus
of grain of any country upon earth, which art
rapidly increafmg it, Vine a are farther from
their conlumers than any nationexportinggrain,
which have the lumber to make toe cajks for
it, and tie flipping t > transport it, and are
themfe've; great consumers of malt liquors and
distilled fpirii:;, it cannot be doubted t::at a na
tion thus circiimikanced, mutt be able to iiunu
fafture thoie articles with facility and advan
tage to any extent of the demand. The be le
fits to foreign trade fr >m the manufa&uie of
ships, cordage, fail cloth, and anchors, as necei
fary inicruments, and from those articles and
potall*, soap, candles, fleel, carriages and other
articles, for sale to foreigners here, or as pay
ments or remittances to them abroad are al
ready too obvious to need mor<* than to be enu
merated : but too much attention cannot be
given to our situation, qualifications, and prof
pefts in regard to the home manufacture of li
quors, conSdering the diilurbed state of the su
gar iflcjnd "., the increased consumption and pri
ces of all the productions of the cane, the impe -
diments to the ordinary importation of slaves,
the objections to the.slave trade which are ap
pearing in different. quarters, tle im:nenfe po
pulation of the manufacturing countries oi* Eu
rope, and their consequent neceiUty to employ
in the culture of grain the lands tie;/ recently
appropriated to the vine, as well as the inipof
fib'dity of their sparing for the making of liquor
all the barley, rye, and oat', which were for
merly consumed in that manufacture.
T'lece is ;iifo a considerable portion offoreign
trade created by the importation of raw mate
rials and other neceliaries for the employment
aid consumption of the manufacturer;. Cot
ton, hemp, bar iron, Iheet iron, copper and
brass in pigs and Iheets, lapis calaminaris, lead,
pewter, wire of every metal, woolen, cotton,
and linen yarns, hempen yarns, hides, ikins, and
furs, woo 1 , paper for books and hangings, dyers
colour, and some others,* varniftu printing
types, bullion for gold and lilver smiths, gold
and fiiver leaf, glue, mahogany, and other ca
binet wood;, molalTer, and crude sugars for dis
tillers and refiners, manufacturers tools and
implemen s, such as vises, fcrewplates, anvils,
hammers, hatchets, knives, awls, pincers,
hatters bowltrings, &rc. glass plated
for looking glass makers and coach makers,
calicoes and linen for printing, morocco skins,
and many other commodities which are expend
ed in the workshops or families of our manufac
turers, including foreign articles of apparel,
furniture, food, and drink.
(to be continued.)
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
r r*H AT the cause oft uthwill not differ from
X a free difcuflion, is an ufefai and important
maxim. But, like maxims in general, it liiiili
be understood only in a limited sense. Its firlt
cftablifhment Teems to have arisen from a lau
dable delign of discouraging the Interpoiition of
civil and ecclesiastic power in matters of opinion.
Such interpoiition no doubt tends to retard the
progress of know ledge, and exclude improve
ment from the world. But supposing fuii liber
ty to {peak and write on every fubje&j it ap
pears obvious from the situation in which man
kind mutt forever exist, and from the immuta
ble and va« ions fir u<slure of their mind-, and
the principles of their hearts, that this liberty
may be used in a way unfavorable, at leall for
a time, to the cause of truth—and that a difcuf
flon in this sense free, may take place, by which
error shall be propagated. Were all men en
dued with the penetrating under (landings, and
did all poilefs the acquired knowledge of the
l\ezvtons and Lockes of our species, and were all
equally capable as they of separating error from
truth—were we especially all free from thebiafs
and irapetuofity of paflion, the preceding maxim
would be more But while man
kind in general are far inferior to individuals
in mental faculties and treasures ; a few of the
latter may, and the more artful and a&ivethev
are, the more fuccefsfully, abuse their fnperio
rity to the delusion of multitudes. While the
pallions have so much power in the human
breast, thole opinions which flatter the -indul
gence of them, will be propagated with pecu
liar facility. Besides, from a variety of cir
cumstances, as the inattention and silence of her
fiends, in some instances from their inferior
abilities, and frequently from their iuferior
wealth, rank, power or fame, &c. Truth mav
remain unfupporled on the field of battle • all
her forces may not be brought forward, or the
contefl be decided more from some accidental
circuaifcances, t. an the real lirength of the
parties.
Tnefe reflexions are genera!, and will apply
to any time p.rd any fubjeft. There is, how
ever", a particu :ir propriety. in bringing them
forward to public attention at present, when
eriois and vices are rapidly imported from Eu
rope, 01 spring forth li ke noxious weeds from
tte luxuriance of our native foil. To speak
plainly, for,v; of oar publications b:gin to infi-
Ji'i ite, or aiTe-", tenets equally inimical to truth,
and the eitential ir.terefts of man It
the preceding observations a e iuft,thefe tenets
notwithftand ng their abfurditv and dangerous
tendency, might probably find a welcome re
ception from some of our citizens, even after
a free and open difcufTion. Yet, so valllv fupe
nor is the evidence in favor of the veiref&We
and important truths of religion to the subtle
ties oi feepticifm, that it mnlt, if fully heard,
overcome the power of ignorance and of palflon.
But when art, which the friends of truth dif
- 1; and ridicwle, which tho' no test of tort
may destroy its influence, arc employed in tie
crrer ~ this is not fair difcuflion—
Wnen mftone', travels, and all the varietv of
periodical publications, even down to newfp. -
po "' ~ -"'t sd "'! th '"finuations ar.d assertion ,
■n ith fl> hint-, and warm inveftiyes against re
ligion and it< minifrers, under the titles cf e.
thufiafm, fujwrftition and priefh-fgis is nodif
cuffion at all. For l£ is ranking pretend£(!;
with t' l e real abuses of relifion, imputing to it
thole error; which in its own nature it tends
co prevent; and doing it too in such a way,
tbat ail chat is said mist pas* in general undn J
r wered and uncontradicted- Religion, morality,
and the welfare of focietv, may be deeply
wounded by these unheedfcd but poisonous ar
rows. These methods, united to the licenti-!
ou'.hcfs of courts, and some otiier caules, have |
been more or leis fuccefsful through Europe.
'Hie friends of their country, reason, and chrif
tia»iity, ought, by uifipouracing or ar ering, as
tar as their nature whl admit, luch publications,
-to ftopjm America the molt glooiiiv and debat
ing, absurd and pernicious of all tenets, from
being pi&ufed. Many of the advocate? for this
ia:hionabJe fcepti'cifni caii tliejnfelves phi'ofo
phers, and prof eft the warmest benevolence to
mankind. Hut ,is it pofijble (I ajk not thofifc
whom the pride of learning and opinion, a rage
to dittingu.ilh them:elves from the vulgar, tlie
reftfefsnefs of bold impiety or licentious Jves
ha ve rendered deaf, but thole who calmly think
for themfelve>) is it poflible that the happiness
of the human race can be increased by fubvert
jng their belief of those opinions which comfort
andfupport them in every calamity anddiftrels—
by destroying those views and hopes which give
profoerity its value, and life its most rational
and exalted joys ? Will the interefls of focietv
be promoted :—viil the rights of individuals l)e
more when the strongest barriers;
againrt the violence of the paf;ons are thrown
down—when the tribunal within our breasts,
and the venerable fanftions of religion, are dis
regarded—when the existence of the Author of
the Universe is denied?—lt cannot be. When
a man renounces christianity, if he has feeling
and cool reilleftion, he must become a prey to
doubt and gloomy anxiety. Not one in a thou-'
sand however Hops, I believe, at such renuncia-!
tion. And when he denies the immortality of
the foul, and abandons the universe to an inex
plicable chance, be is degraded in his own eyes',
and in t '.ole of every one who embraces ins
creed —right and wrong cease to exiff.
Were it po' ? ib!e that a w!y>!e nation should
(become so credulous and corrupt as to believe
with some celebrated philosophers, we should
thus exclaim—Every restraint, adieir ! Un
bounded ambition, avarice and fenfualitv, ad
vance and enter ! Here is your kingdom ! Ctni
jning and power, here you may triumph without
a rival! — The reign and triumph would indeed
be short—all the fierce and ravenous monsters
jof tiie defarts would be collected in a single
den.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
I THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 1792.
On the motion to enhance the duty on
imported hemp and cordage, and to
Jirtke out imported cotton from articles
i exempted from duty.
MR. BOURNE (aid he hoped this
encreaf# would not be agreed
to—the navigation of the United
States would fuffer by it—as the sup
ply furni/hed by the cultivation of
that article, was not competent to tht
demand.
Mr. White said that on the princi
ple of uniformity, he thought this
fluty ought to be rpifed ; but when
it is considered that many of the du
ties are defigncd to encourage the
manufactures of the United Stares, he
thought that equal attention fliould
be paid to the agricultural interellv
an interell as important as any other
at lealt.
Mr. Willianifon fnpported the
amendment— he said the indepen
dence of rlie United States, in refpetft
to its navioarioii, was so important an
ohjeifi, that lie conceived every thiiio
ought to be dene to effeift it. Among
others, proper encouragement (hould
be given to the railing of hemp, efpe
ciaily vhen it is cojilidered tiiac we
have a grearer proportion of land
than any other country—that expe
i iments have proved that it can be
raiferf to advantage , that it will, if
duly encouraged, conduce to rooting
out the cultivation of tobacco, which
impoverifi)e S the foil, a „d is a mere
aitiele of luxury. He was at a lois
to account for the omiflion of this
duty in the firft inftttifce.
Mr. Parker fnpponed the amend-
Ce,lh " gedon the good policy
(• r' g IIIIS encoura gement—lie
(aid jf the gentleman who moves to
diJagree to ihe amendment had pro
posed to reduce the duty op canvas
he thought it would be more confill
ent; and in this cafe he fhnuld be
willing to relinqui/h this enhanced
duty on hemp.
Mr. Goodhue said he fiiould agree
o the enhanced duty. j
11
' Mr. Lawrance nppofed if, princi
pally on account of its being a tax on
a raw material, and a very essential
:o«e too 'O the navigation and com
merce of the United States.
Mr. Mfdifon offered some remarks
in favor of the enhanced duty.
The amendment was agreed to.—
Foreign cotton being inserted among
the anicles to be exempted from duty.
Mr. macon moved that it (hould be
tltruck out —he thought it belt that
the duty lhould becontinued. Great
quantities, he ("aid, were raised in the
louthem Hate's, for which they could
not find a market.
Mr. Anics opposed the motion—lie
said there were manufactures carried
on in the United States which requir
ed foreign cotton—foine things con Id
not be manufactured without cbtton
of a particular (ta-ple. He further re
marked, that the enconragement to
the railing of cotton depends on the
manufactures formed from it—hence
he inferred that this very encourage
ment is suspended on a due attention
to the manufactures.
Mr. Steele dated sundry particulars
to (hew that the cotton raised in the
southern dates was adapted to every
species of manufatfures; and de
pending on encouragement froi» go
vernment, the farmers of North-Ca
rolina had gone largely inro the cul
tivation of that article. It is well
known, said he, that the fttuation of
the three fouiibtrn dates is fa-vorable
to the raising of hemp and cotton—
and on the principles of reciprocity,
be thought it but just and equal to
extend encouragement to the agri
cultural interest of tbofe dates.
Mr. Baldwin observed that be could
have wifned the gentleman had nien
tioned the particular fnecies of cot
ton which was so necessary in the ma
nufactures, that could not be procur
ed from the fonthern staves. Hefaid
that there were two forts of cotton
raited there ; one of a fliort, the other
of a long daple ; and under due en
couragement, they would in a few
years raise every description of that
article.
Mr. Fitzfitnons, Mr. Murray and
Mr. Kittera, fupportejl the motion
for driking out the article.
Mr. Page, in favor of the dury,
observed, thai the gentleman (Mr.
Ames) who had exprelied his fears
that American cotton would not suit
the manufacturers, might lay aside
his fears ; for he knew from experi
ence the contrary—that even if what
had been said of the cotton of the
United States were true, he knew
that there was reason to believe that
the cotton of the Weft and East-in
dies would grow even in Virginia
that both had been lately introduced
into that slate. Such feats, he said,
might upon examination perhaps be
traced to the fame origin with Come
formerly introduced into Virginia
that the flieep of America wci e only
ufefnl as food, their wool being; unfit
for the woollen manufactui e. He
added that he well remembered it
was with difficulty lome people were
convinced that the fait water of Ame
rica would yield fait. He said, for
his part, he fhoukt as easily be per
luaded that the fifh of the United
Stales wei e unfit for food, and as in
capable of being cured so as to be
merchantable, as that the cotton of
America was unfit for the cotton ma
nufactories; he thereforeadvifed the
worthy member to be upon his guai d
againlU'uch inlinuations. As to him
felf, Mr. Page declared he had no
idea that any member of either House
could wiili to injure the of
any of the Itates ; but he said he was
authoi ifed to fuppole that as the ma
nufacturers in general were foreign
os, they had their prepofteflions and
prejudices, which might give rife to
tiie opinions entertained by some gen
tiemcn respecting the unfunels of our
cotton forntar.ufrftfure; but header
ed that whatever gave rile to them
they were ill founded, as he had
ofien seen and worn in the late war
cotton cloth and Tickings, as good
and fine as ever had been imponeg.
As to encouraging the manufactures
..ouever, said he, I have ever thought
it foreign to the bulinefs of Congress,
and if not so, a mere taking from one
" an *L n ? g' v '»g to another—a deli
cate affair, which might be mifunder
;tood and ir.ifapplied—however, as it
is thrown in before us, I take
(hare for my conflituents,
As to tlie fears of the member from
Pennsylvania (Mr. Kittera) that the
culture of cotton may injure the far
mer, Mr. Page said he could afi'ure
him that he had found cotton a j;ood
preparative for whear, and that lands
where lie lived, which had been worn
out in tobacco, yielded excellent cot
ton, and left the ground in fine order
for wheat, and that cotton, if proper
ly encouraged, would be a good sub-
II it in e for tobacco. >
STOCKHOLM, April 3.
SOME of the persons taken into
cttliody refolotely declared that
the King had merited his fate, and
that there were an hundred persons
eajjer to contend for the honor of
giving him the mortal blow, for the
welfare of mankind. »
This aiftion certainly cannot be juf
tified, but it is at the fame time, a
striking and dreadful lellbn to Sover
eigns, who think to famftion tyran
ny oy law, and regard t he rell ofmcn
as a -vile herd, whom they may dil
pofe of at their pleasure.
LONDON, March 1
G F. R M A N Y
The Elector of Mentz,' as Great
Chancellor of-the Empire, will iflue
summonses to ihe Electors, within a
niOnili. and the day fixed for the elec
tion of an Emperor, niuft be within
three months of that time. The cir
jomittance of the late Emperor's foil
not being elected King of the Romans
during iiis lather's life lime will not
obftrnrt his eletfion as has been sup
posed. The cafe has happened fre
quently.
When the throne becomes vacant
by the death of the reigning Empe
ror, and no King of the Romans has
been previonfly ch.'fen, the Eleiftor
Palatine, and Elector of Saxony, have
the title of Vicat s of the Empire, in
right of their refpetflivc offices ; the
one of Count Palatine, the other of
Arch-Marshal of the Empire. The
Emperor, ku his capitulation, con
stantly engages to ratify and confirm,
iu the fulleft manner pofliblc all ai r ts
performed by the Vicars General,
during the time of the interreguuui..
Though the Empire be elective,
vet it is so rather in words rlian in
fa«sl. From the time that Albert 11.
of the House of Austria, was rhofen
Emperor in 14:8, ihe Icnjieiial tligi li
;y has continued in the House of Au
stria, in which the order of primo
geniture has always determined the
Electors.
With regard to the King of the
Romans (which, by the bye, is a mere
title) it he is chosen before the cie
inife of the Emperor, he succeeds to
the Empire without any other elec
tion ; if not he has all the forms to
go through, and though requiring
time, yet they are founded upon rules
from which there is seldom any va-
nation
It is a miflake ro suppose that
firings for tlie flioes are a modern in
vention. The Beaux of Sr. Bartho
lomew's and Bridewell hospitals liave
worn them time out of mind ; and
that they were fafhionable when But>-
ler wrote his Hndibrns, is proved by
the following diliich i« his addreii
to the widow ;
Madam, I tin as in my duty,
Honor the fliadow of your (hoe tic.
"l here never was an instance where
public cnriofity was so universally ex
cited, as by the expectation of hear-,
ing Mi s. Siddons recite Collins's beau
tiful Ode to the Fafiions, at her Be
nefit, on Monday evening. This ad
mirable composition allows our fa
vourite an opportunity of crowding
the varieties of her exprcflion into a
space, where all the merits of her
countenance and action may at oncf
be comprehended at a lingle view.
; Great Britain is now flourifliing in
arts and connnercc, and Vcsping' lb*
fruits both of her own industry and
the deftruinion of her neighbours. —•
In this elevation of fortune, and ex*
icrnal fecuriry, it will be political
wisdom to guard against these inter
nal paflions, which excels of profpe
riiy is wonr to generate. It will b#
wisdom to anticipate, by partial and
gradual reformation,thofe evils which
might orherwife arifefroni a general
convulsion. The molt brilliant gc*
myiiitifcs on the opposite fides of the
House of Commons, are botli equally
pledged to do every thing in then
power to elfetft a Parliamentary Re
formation. Mr. Pitt and Mr. Fox
are united in this declared decermi-
nation.
It was well remarked, as is okferv
ed by an able and jadicious friend to
civil ami religious liberty, by Mr.
Fox, " that not only the established
church, but the constitution itfelf,
(lands materially indebted for a great
proportion of its rectitude, vigor,and
beatify, to rational itinovaiions. Im
provements may be grafted, without
tumults or diftiirbanees, 011 the forms
0 ',«ii excellent constitution ; where
a other countries, wanting those
'firms, and being under the necelfity
01 erecting a new constitution on the
ruins of an old one, cannot acquire
liberty without setting every thing
afloat, and making their escape from
slavery through the (hoals and quick
lands of anarchy."
LIVERPOOL, April 14
A gold medal has been adjudged
by the Agricultural Society of Paris
to M. Morcan, of Brillon, near Bar
]<* Due, who though poor, and the
father of fix children, has bi ought up
a child which he found, on the high
way perilling with cold and dil'eafe
CHARLESTON, May 29.
A correspondent informs, that j
Mefi'rs. Hallam and Kenry, of the'
New-York Theatre, are expe<fted
here fnottly, for the purpose of erect
ing a house -and exhibiting their per
formances the ensuing winter. Such
gentlemen, therefore, as wifli to fuh
fcribe to this company, which was
formerly Mr. Douglas's, will /hortly
have an opportunity of doing so.
General Jackson has declined ferv
ir,:r as a representative of the slate of
Georgia in Congtefs,
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in
Augujla, dated May 23.
" By a gentleman from Roek Land
ing, we have received advice of Ge
neral M'Gilli*ray's arrival
a number of the upper chiefs; but,
in consequence of two white wen be
ing irtUraeied fotne little time back,
they have all returned to the Creek
nation, in order to hold a grand coun
cil to decide this business, which will
in all probability detain the running
of the lim s for ihefe three months.''
Married, the 6:h inilant, the Hon.
Thomas Wadfworth, a senator of
Ninety-Six dilhitft, to the amiable
Miss Lamb, late of Bolton.
C O L U MBI A, May 8.
On Saturday tlie 28th of'lalt month,
as Cbm.nodore Gillon, in coinp.iny
with Major Butler, was returning to
his feat on the Congaree from Col.
Thornton's plantation, hishorfe took
fright and ran away with a chair.
The commodore jumped out and un
fortunately bvol<e his leg. He was
taken to the house of Mrs. Hart, who
lives ne«ar the place where the acci
dent happened, and attended by Dr.
Lent hold and two other gentlemen
cf the faculty. Several splinters were
extracted Both the bones were brolc
en and had forced their way through
the boot.
Sunday last one Gardner Williams
was ftiot dead by a person of the name
of Mafley, on his plantation about 16
miles from town., Mafley is n'jt yet
apprehended.
May rj. On Saturday last the fe
deral circuit court was held here,
when their honors judge Jredell and
judge Bee were present, The court
adjourned to Monday ten o'clock.
Wednesday last William Mafl'ev,
who killed Gardner Williams a fevy
days finee, surrendered himfelf to
Johi» Wilson, Klq. jultice of peace,
and was by him committed to Camden
gaol, in order to taking his trial the
next frifion.
AN N A.PO L I S, (M,).M 3 y 31.
ExtraQ ' dJ~ a tetter from Philadelphia,
j'.. j n,r .
dated May 30,
" From what I could learn, there
feetned to be a clivifior. among the re
publicans in favor of Clinton for tbe
office of vice-president. The present
incumbent, tis generally thought,
would think better of tlip people by
mixinga little \vi:h them. He would
find they were tnjld, amiable, and not
difpofeil to riot; that, in fa«ft, no
danger is to be- apprehended from
hem to any of the salutary objects of
'ociety. by being under the govern-
ment of the law, adminiflered by o
.hers, without the prolpccft of wield
ing any other IoJ of authority than
an ordinary walking cane, he might
gradually feel with them, and look
with an eye of jealouly toward thole
who live on public taxes, and defpile
the four.ee from whence they arc
drawn."
ALBA NY, June 4
The pvelul'ent and directors of the
Brink ofNew-York have, in the poHr
elt terms, tendered the service* of
their Bank to the Bank of Albany,
offering to receive and exchange our
paper without any particular limita
tion— Hence the immediate advanta
ges and utility of our Bank, must be
obvious to every man of the fniallell
reflection
The warmed advocates for our
Sauk, la It winter, did not anticipate
such a close connection with the iiank
of New-York, before ours (hould be
in full operation
A convenient house for the Bank,
and all other mutters, being nearly
in readiness, it is supposed difcount
ng will commence by the mid tile oi
ext week.
By letters fiom New-York, it ap
pears thfU 1200 ihares are fubferibed
to-the northern and weiteni canals—
which added to the mighty exertions
of the'-whole northern
Schcncftady included, the aggregate
number of lhares fubferibed amount
to 1425 —whereas 1000 ihares would
have been fufficient to have fee the
whole of both canals in motion ;
which in their ultimate consequences.
will enrich and animate the whole
llate, and greatly benefit our new
Bank
As the choice of Directors for the
Sank will take place on Tuesday the
I2th inft. I have to recommend the
following gentlemen as Directors for
.lie year eni'uing—Stephen V. Renllel
laer, Philip Schuyler, Abraham Ten
Broeck, John iV':<iley, Daniel Hale,
Jaiiies Caldwell, Cornelius Glen, John
sievenfon, Jeremiah Van Renfieilaer
"Goldfbrow Bahyar, J'»hn Taylor,
Leonard Ganfevoort.
A Stockholder
I BALTIMORE, June 6.
Yesterday the District Court of the
United States was opened at the court
iioufe in this town, when a well a
dap-ed charge was delivered by the
Hon. Judge Paca to the jury, and
proceeded to bulinefs—after which
iliey adjourned till 10 o'clock this
day.
Y O R K, (Pen.) June 6.
Yesterday arrived at this place, on
his way to the Westward, his Excel
lency Major General Anthony Wayne.
FROM THE NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Oyez ! OY £ Z ! O Y E z !
Hear ! heai ! hear, and attend, !
ATTEND, ye.Eoglifrnnen, ye lufhmen, y<
Scotchmen! ve High-Dutch, ye Low-Dutch !
ye Middle-Dutch ! ve Frenchmen, ye Spaniards, ye
Portugucfc ! ye Ruffians, ye Piullians, ye Hessians !
ye Swiss, Savoyards, and Piemouu I'e ! Ealt-In
dians, Weft-Inciiar.s, and Wild-Indians! Tuiks,
Jews,and Algerines, attend ! —attend, ye foreigners,
'from every country, and from every clime ! at
tend to my words, if you wi(h to save ) our bacon.
You will be all hanged like rogues, if you d<
not pack oif, bag and baggage, and disappear fron
the tei ritorics of the United SLates, before the nex
meeting ot Congreis : lor—
Lo! and behold !
Here is John fenno conic a.I the way from Boston,
to lodge informations agan.ll yon. This veiv
morning, in the Gazette oj the United States, he
/War's—(and who Mans ciiibelieve' him when he
swears ?) —that you foreigners area set of rebel
lious turbulent dogb, a pack of run-away Jlav(S,
who arc come here to oveitutn the government! *
It is happy tot you, that Congress are uot now
fitting; or who knows, but John Fenno might
have influence endugh. to get you all tianfporccd
10 BoUuy-Bay, oi iomeot the defart islands in tiic
Southern Ocean ? Luckily |he Lcgiflaiure is now
in recess : make hay, therefore, while the fur
dhines : feam'per off as quick as you can, whiie
you are yet at liberty to choose the place of yout
future iroode : but be sure you write beforehand iv
all your ragged turbulent friends and acquaintance
in your relpcilive countries, to caution them a
gaiuft coming here, to diffurb the peace of Ame
rica, by willing agaiftd the government!
Saturday, June 9.
* His words are, " The abuftrs oj governmem
a majority of them are peiiotis from
other countries, ivho having lately e leaped from
bondage, know not hozv to enjoy liberty !"
THE paragraph alluded to in the above, which
apuean d in our last, is a literal tranfeript from the
Newark Gazette, and is marked as a quotation in
the Gazette of the United States. The Editor
12
hefcof knows not the author,and therefore theaf
ferrion'ihat ihey are " his words " is a vrffake.
tipm a fulj conviction that rhe insinuation is*
wel i. founded, and that it isulcful and impor-"
Unt thft people should bedifabuled in rcfpeCl
to the authojsol many of thofc publications which
hold up ihe adminiiirators of our government as a
knot of knaves; and exhibit the people o» the
United States to the world, as the mifciffble
dupes ol the worst characters among them—the
ifei lion wa"S made.
rheioi cgoiugjiiom the National Gazette, is a fpe
citnen ot tin; polue and candid manner in which
the hditor ol ihis papei has had the honor of be
ing repeatedly rum in that Gazette, and in Jvme
h?is, condufcLd on equally tolerant principle
I he writer has evidently two obje£U in vijew —
>ne is', to ftigtnatize 11 Joh n Ft nn o" ps inimical
to foreigners ; the other, to checK. ihe ireedom of
the prcis. With refpeft to the fir It, " John
Ff n no*' conlidcrs no man as a tofergnc'r who ha-s
"cliofeh this for his rounrry, and is interfiled in its
'ate ; and as to the second, ihe attempt IhaM-noi suc
ceed. The author ot the Newark paragraph may be
fatisfied by i 4 the roaring, that ho has hit right."
N. B. None but mutilated extrafls jrom the Gazette
ot the United Slates, have hitherto appealed in \he
National Gazette.
EXTRACT Jrom " Notes on the State oj Virginia."
BY MR. JEFFERSON.
44 IT is for the happiness ot thoi'e united in so"
ciety. to harmonize as much as poflibld in ma<tcr 6
whveft they mull of neccfiity traulaft together.
Civil government being the sole ofoje6l of forming
locieties, its adm'niftration must be conduced by
ommon content. Every foecies ol government
has its fpccific principles. Ours perhaps are more
peculiar than those of any other in the uruverfe.
li is a tompofition of the fie<ft principles in the
t.nglirti Constitution, with others derived trOm na
tural light and natural icalbn. To thele, nothing
can be more opposed than the maxims ot ablo'.ute
monarchies. Yet, from such we arc to ex jjcdt the
number of emigrants. They will bnng
with them the principles of the governments they
leave, inibibed in their ly youth ;or it able lo
ihiow them off, it will be in exchangejor an un
bounded liccntioufr.ef s, as is ujualjrom one ex
treme' to another. It uould be a miracle were they to
fiop precisely at the point oj temperate liberty
Philadelphia, June 13.
The oldest inhabitant of Pennsylvania does
not remember weather in the month of June
equally unseasonable. Monday morning at
fix o'clock, the Mercury in the thermometer
stood at S J decrees, within 18 degrees of the
freezing and 43 degrees colder than it
was in this city on the 3 1 it of May, at three
o'clock, P. M.
We are sorry to learn, that Capt. Montfort,
and a fo'.dier of the firft regiment,- being lately
a (hort distance from Fort Jeiierfon, were killed
and scalped by the Indians, parties of whom are
constantly hovering rcyjnd that post, so that it is
dangerous to venture out of fight of it.
This happened at the fame place where Capt.
Shaylor's lbn was killed lalt February.
Now is a favorable occasion for the occupiers
of fugar-maplc lands, to make an univrrfal ittort.
The present is the fealon. The ensuing fix weeks
ought to be made the best use of. Let every fami
ly make a hogfheaa, a barrel, a keg ; according to
its ability. There seems to be little doubt that
the price of sugars will be more than two fix
teeruhs, probably near three sixteenths of a dollar
per pound, according to the quantity ar<d quality,
through the ensuing year.
Col. Edwaid Wigglefworth, is appointed Col
lector of the Customs, for the port of Newbury
port, in the room of Stephen Cross, Elq.
A southern paper informs that the bulk of the
materials, f6r t*he public buildings of the interidtd
Fcdeial City have been contra£l<:d for and are pre
paring, and that the walls of the si: ft story of both
the Congress house and the Prefidcnt's house will,
certainly, be completed in the present fummcr and
ensuing fall.
His Excellency John Hancock, is /e-eltfted Go
vernor, and the Hon. Samuel Adams, Lieut. Go
vernor df the State ot Maflachufctts.
Pafftngefs 111 tiie from
ton
Mr. Hazlehurft & family, Mr. Davis,
Mr. Dj&Sauflure&family, Dr. Rush,
Mrs. Heyrne,
Mils Sproat,
Mi. Mitchell,
Mr. Warrington,
" 1 here is a morning of reason rising upon
man on the fubjeft of government, that has not ap
peared before. As the barbarism of the present
old governments expires, the moral condition of
nations with refpedt to each other will be changed.
Man will not be brought up with a savage idea
of considering his species as hiscntmv, because the
accident of birth gave the individuals exiflence in
countries diftinguifbed by difFerent names ; and as
conilitutions have always some relation to cxter-*
rial as well as to domelhc ctr'cumUances, the means
of benefiting by every change, foreign or domellic,
(hould be a pait of ev«ry conllitution."
" I do not believe that the peopie of England
have ever been fairly and candidly dealt by.—
They have'been imposed upon by parties, and
by men uflTuming the character of leaders. It is
time that the nation Ihou'd rife above tri
jlcs. It i; time to dismiss that inattention
which has so long been the encouraging caule of
stretching taxation to excess. It is time todil
mifs all those fangs and toasts which are calcu
lated to enslave, and operate to fufTocate re
flection. On ail such fubjefts man have but to
think, and they will neither ast wrong nor be
milled. To fay that any people are not fit for
1 freedom, is to make poverty their choice, and
to fiv they had rather be loaded with taxes than'
not. If such a cafe could be proved, it would
equally prove that those who govern are not fit
to govern them, for they are a part of the fame
national mass." Paint's Fights oj Man.
OH LA!
By the Sand ".rich Packet, Capt. Dillon, de-
rived at Ncw-York, account > are received from
Europe to the 26th of April—-they itats that
the National Allembly has accorded with the
general anticipation, by palling a decree in the
fitting of Friday antecedent to the 26th oi April,
which fanftions the hcfftilities ot Fiance with
the king of Bohemia and Hungary —and thac a
j deputation of twenty-four members Ihould carry
| the Decree to -the King for his fanCtion.
A correspondent informs uthat at a late
meeting of thfe fubicfibei/s to the Universal 1 on- 4
tine, the principles of the inft'-tution were fully
ancj fairly difculied ; and it appeared t : it, not
withstanding the late pecuniary dtii»culcies,'near
ten thousand /hares had been fubiCribed in-t.ri*
city, exclusively of a number ot fiiafes disposed
of by one of the agents in other states; and that
there was a reafonabie pro<~pe& that the society
u<6uld be loon eftabliflied upon an exteniive, a
permanent, and benefichl foundation. The
aftiount of ihe depofitshad been velteri in fix per
cent, frock, at an advantageous price ; and the
agent employed to chfpole of ihare; in other
rftates, had given ample security for the iaithtul
ciifcharge of his trult. It is to be expected, that
a very rapid fubfeription will take place bet jre
the Ift of July next, as after that day, the de
polit is encrcafed ten cents in each share.
Those who are acquainted with the principles
and objects of this Tontine, cannot but recom
mend it to all persons who are Wefirous ot lecur
ing an independence for thcrnfeives, or their
children. The state of the fubferiptions is for
tunately such, as to preclude the idea of its be
ing a fabjeft of speculation, the fubferibers in
general meaning to retain their interests in the
society; and as the articles declare that, at all
events, the number of {hares fubicribed on the
Ift of January next, fnall constitute tie capital
of the Tontine, there can be no pollibility of a
premature diifolution of the Company.
Dunlup's Dai. Adv.
Extraß of a Utter from St. Georges r Grenada, to 4
: \i - vr- ' *
geutlem.tn in New-York, May 16.
" J ifl • I clofcd my later o: yxikr.iay, a
dieadful fire bioke out in tlie Carcnage ot chis
in the course of three h >urs every houle
there was burnt to afhrs except three. The fire !S
not yei tot aH y extinguished but 1c Ingot under as
to relieve the people in the bay irorn the dreadful
apprehension of sharing the (ate of the Cdrenage.
| The loss is eftimatcd at, at Icaft 100,0001. ftcrlmg."
Opinions on government, c!pecia 11 y thofc which
are novel, (hould be scrutinized belore they are
receivrd as truths ; if on examination they turn
out to be merely dogmatiftns, uniupporied by fa£U
or cxpericnce—nor justly deciucible from tuhcr
the positive or relative iUuatioO of lociety manners
or things under any foi m at government whatever,
I it is to be prefumcd that the) will not be jwallow
| cd like a quack rioftium, left we thereby take poi
son tnllead of wholcfome medicine.
There are opinions fpoi ted now a days which
are lo extremely right, thai they are attended with
all the pernicious confluences of the levcrie.
]uft and equal laws have been coufidered ss the
only competent guardians el T'ght and liberty \ but
an opinion has I een lately Jet up, that any dcjiti'lt
ideas of liberty, tho fanttioned by the vo.ice or the
people, whether contained in written laws, or any
other inflrumeni, are not so lafe a depofuum, as
that general feufe of the rights of man which is
impri iTed on human nature—and which iuper
cedes the use 01 riecelfuy of all expielTcd {octal
agreements, covenants or charters whatever.
fXT In the Price Current of this day, are forty va
riations from the lafl published in this Ga/dtte.
%* Advertifemeriti of onefquare, or less, will be
pubhfhed in this papa once for 50 Cents, and eachfub
fequevt insertion at 20 (rut
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Indents,
Final Settlements,
Half (bares Bank U. S. 65 per cent. prcm.
Shares Bank North-America, 17 dirto.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship, Delaware, Art, Ckarleflon
Brig Hannah, Latimer, Cape-Francois
St. George, Be Cofla, Oporto
Poil\, London
Sloop Commerce, Belcher, Cape-Franco: i
Lively, A7t?£-, New-York
By accounts from London, brig Polly, Captain
Reed, rut learn that a verbal account arrived in London
on Sunday morning 1 April, brought by the Purser of
the Gen. (oote Indiaman, from Bengal, /Aaf JiJ poo
Saib was surrounded on all quarters, his army deserting
in great numbers, a// rejourcei cut off from him.—
From these circumflances, there is little doubt but that
he will be captured.
lhefhip Birmingham Packet, Simmons, for
Brijhl, cleared the Capes of Delaware (with a Jine
breeze) lafi ThurJday morning.
The brig Peace and Plenty, /frnr? fohnfon, mafler,
of Newbury-Port, has arrived in London from dt. Mi
chaels ; /A* vcjfe,l was so bad, and so totally decayed,
thatfhe was condemned, m*?^Jorfervice.
CharUflon, 23. Yejlerday arrived the brig
Benjamin, Broohhoufe, Salem. Mew-England, 12 days ;
schooner Betsey, Dunrey, Wilmington, NX.
Mr. Roe,
Mr. P. Prioleau,
Mr. I. Prioleau.
Philadelphia, June 6, 1792.
TH F« Printers o.f Newfpapeis in the United
States are desired to take Notice* That Mr.
Francis. Bti/ey, Mr. Daniel Humphreys, and Meff»s.
SpotfwQod and Carey, of this Cny, have, ceased to
print Newfpapcrs, and of course can receive none
from the other Printers tree of Pofhge. The
Printers of Newfpapcrs are therefore desired to dis
continue fending their Papers to those Gentlemen,
unless they fliould become Subfcribcrs, on the toot
ing of other Citizens.
As divers Printers, in other Places may havedif
conrinued their printing of Newfpapcrs, the Post
masters in those places are desired to give Notice
thereof in the Newfpapcrs in which they usually
Advertise; that the Newspapers Tent to such for
mer Primers may be discontinued, and the Pub
lic Mails be relieved from useless liurthena.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
SHIP NEWS,
GENERAL POST-OHTICE
T. PICKERING.
t9.fi
>3/
■ay sPRICE CURRENT.—PHIL ADELPHIAT
1 PER QUANTITY.
June 13.—D0l lar s 100 Cents each.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7c 8c Pitch, pr. bbJ. id 73c 2d
Allum, Engliih, pr.c. 3d73c\d Pork, liurlingion, \id 11J 67c
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11c Lower county tod
Allies, pot, per toi:, god lood ■ -Carolina gj
" Pearl, 13yd i±od PeaE,Albany pr: bulh. 73c
Arrack pr. gall, id 33c id 6yc Pepper, pr. lt>. soc5 oc
Brandy, common, id 20c Pimento' ,6c
4cd *£""> b< -?> P r - kc 8
a rick,, pi. m. 37 '4/7 d„ 0 pr ' JJ K r . 3 i
Bread, ftiio, pr. cwt. \d Bcc zdt [, ° P'- ,)OX 4 d
D.ito, pilot 3 „'6 7C P r - cw '- J 7 c
Ditto, small water 36c 40c ° P r - bD • :^33r dbyc
Beer, American, .n 1 , f Jamaica pr.gall.nßc 122 c
b< i pr.doz.bot.incl.J ' d * OC £>"«■» uic
—— pr. bbl. 67c u J W "' dwilrd 93c tooc
c, f Oak pr.M feet, q died ci Barbados 87 c
| Merch. pine 16d 17d N. Ev 07 c
Sap, do. 8d Salt petre,pr. cwt. 13J33c 141/
0 I N.Eng. ltd Sailafras pr. ton 6d 8d
® LCtdar 14J Shot 140J
'he above are the Shallop pri:-s\ f German pr.lb. g f
Jo> tin Yardpjices add id 33c w JEnglifh, bliftcred cwtiod
H ") American pr. ton : 131/33 C
Bnmllone rolls pr.cwt. 3 4 33c ( Crowley's pr. fag 10J67C
c '» Boll'on 8d Spake root pr. lb. 20c 42c
Country 6d 7d Soap, Brown 6c
Butter pr. lb. 16c White 8c
— m kegs gc 10c Caßile n c
ui I Sner. pr.ib. 43c Starch y c
q I ax 53 c s^ c SnufF pr. doz. bot. 4J 60c
■{ Myrtle Was- 13c Spermaceti, refined, 48c
Mould,tallow nc Sailcloth, 1
u LDipprd toe No 1. p.r v'ard, J zßi;
Cheefc, Engltfh, pr. lb. tgc Bolton. No. I. 30c
— -Country Bcioc No. 11. aoc
atc :7C *8c Rnilia fin'cl 1 na. nr.p. 12d
t::ir,amo„ 2 d 40c 2d 67c r Lump, pr.lb 22c
_"'7 S , xd zoc . Loaf, fin»le refined 25c
Coal pr. bulhel 20c 22c < j Ditto, double do. 36c
pr. cwt. 141/67 c U . Havannah, white 17c 18c
Collce pr. lb. 20c £ Dllloi brown, i s c
Copperas pr. cwt. id6 7 c t Mufco. p, .cwt H di6d6 : c
or yaQ-jt&d SpiritsTurpcnt:nc p. g. 33c 37c
Cotton pr. lb. 26c 33c J ( Allurn pr. bfilh. 24c!'c
.."'V" 1 ' 5 „ . , 1 3 c 2 J Liverpool 2Qc
Due* Rulia.pr. piece < C ad,z ' c
Ravens 8d 93c gd 67c <"( L ifl>on 25c 27c
leathers pr.lb. 40c 44c Ship build. W. 0.1 , ,
n aX c , „ o U,2C p. ton, j 121 3^33
Haxfeed pr. bum 8 5 c 90c Do. LO. i s d 33c i6d6 7 c
our, Super. pr. bbl. 438.1: Do. red cedar, p. f. 33c 40c
Common Shingles, ih. p. M. 2d 33cId 67
—•Bur middlings,heft 3dß4c Do. long drcfTc<! iidi 3 d 33 <c
•eal, Indian 2,d £c Scantling, heart, 23d ,jjc
d '"°Kve, 2 d6yc s Bdidb"d
Ship-itufF pr.cw. \d
Fultlc pr. ton, zod [ °'P e P r * lQ o° 29d
Cin it 11 j - , , 'Si W. O. hogdiead iqd 38c
Gin, Holland,pr.cafe, 67c > JR. O. do? lad^cc
Do. pr. gall. B=c <] L 2idL-
Glue, pr cwt. zod 2id 33c Barrel sod
Ginger, whiteracc yd [Heading 2 6i6 7 c
Ditto, common ,d r otUr b S tR it .
cbfe°; 5 p ; Bt ' Minks 20c 4 oc'
„ 0> 2Ct 2i i c 1< ox, grey 40c 80c
Gunpowder, can- ) , , a j
..on, pr.q.c. S 3'' 73' ~ red 'J W
t>' r 1 Martins 2ac \ti
Dim, fine glazed 4 J 1 ¥llh r} *
H heat pr. bufti gcc 9,c X Bc . Jrs < c
Z OaTs 1%. Racoons 27c 6oc
5,, .? 26c Mufk-.ais lic 20c
5 Indian corn 40c r , ~ ,
* Barlev ooc Beaver, pr. lb. 33 c
° Best Ihelled pr. lb. ;j c L Deei, 1,1 hair aoc 3 uc
Buckwheat per bulli. 40c Jcrfey, 24 gal. p. bbl. \d
Hcinp,fo.pr. ton, \%od 146.67 c Carolina,32 gall. 1 '/33c I^6yc
American, pr. lb. \c 5c Turpentine pi. bbl. \d 67c 2d
Herrings, pr. bbl. 2</6;c • f J drncs &• b«.:it %d 6cj 73c
■Hides, raw pr.lb. gc nc -inferior zd6jc $d
Hops ? j C o old 4*/ 67c
Hogfhcad hoops, pr. M \§d 1 Rappahannock 2d 50c3^
Indigo French lb. tiaoc „/ 3 3c S j Colo.Maryiand 5^ 3 c (V
Carolina 40c id O r , ,• , 4 oc
Irons, fad pr. ion, 1331/ v°o° %d
f Callings pr. cwt; 3 1/!? c
z I Bar p,. ton, gL'eJc 2 i Carohna.new 2d 7 c 3d
* | Slifet 73J 33c f2 y f on r' b - Cld '' ic
1 Nail rods 3 g6d < J e Hyf °" fk '"' 53'6?c
J«k, pr. cwt. 4 ,L/ u^S° uct, "«g. 5 0c 93 c
Lard, hogs pr. lb. cc 10c H -13 r s°c
Ua_din pigs p, £ . TaHoJ,'"fined
Lead, white iodiod6 7 c pr. box, i3 ! '33 c 67c
red 6t/ 4 oc6</6c Veidigreafe pr.lb 47c,53c
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 17c 20' c Vermillion id33Cid'(> 7 c
Lignum vitae pr. ton, $d6oc6d Varnish, 33c 37c
Logwood Hd f Madeira, pr.p.,c6<*cood
M l P i r 't! nit 3 3' 6:C i Lia,on 961/100 <y
—67c lZ' m ' gaL 5 l c' 6 ° C
Madder, bell pr. lb. ,6c 20c g J P o ,t pr. p. ioGd6 7 Titld
5
££ pff-
Mahogany pr. foot, IOC L ' 7C Soc
Nails, icdizd and ioc Wax 'B cl?s pr.lb. 25c 27c
Nutmegs pr. lb. Wh3le-bone,long'pr.lb. 13C30C
f Linleid, pr. gall. 6/ 6-c
I °. hve 87c
Ditto pr. cafe, a <Kcc
I Bell sweet in )
— flalks.pr.box 5 lod SCC5 CC
| —ba&ets 12 bottles
1 Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
wf?
I Whale 22c 28<
Porter pr. c.aflc, 5 d 3y
- London, pr.doz. ,Js oc
Porter,AmericaYi >
pr.d-02. bot.incl {
N E W TE A S.
SOUCHONG .
Net , :Y,^:';V^r a ;; on,,omCimon '' ia
No. ig,
' ™ rfl - be ' Wec " Chefn U .,ndM.rfc«S, r< . P ;.
TW in 'u c NEW-brunswick lonr R Y
X be had at the following oiaecs »!» V , ' are to
Ferry; at Burlington, of R rr,„"" Sa ' rrite)'e ) Cooper's
John Van Embury Moom Holt 'of ?' R Mr "
ot John Singer, Esq. Amboy, of Unts I'Lt 'vr q " 1 rfn,on .
Town, of R.Gray; Fowl/,.H00k nf Vf'« Eli «be.!u.
Hunt; Cranbury, of' William Thrne'l Smith anil Judge
the Managers in Bnsnfwick. ' mortonS P otfw °od ; and of
COURSE
>r EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days ij) pr.ci. atovepar.
60 days 3-! V ditto.
30 aays 4§ ) pr.ct. above par
Ainftcrdatn, day?,
pr. guilder, 37 I C
90 days g(jl c
Government bills, drawn at 40
days per 1, guilders, 4 J 4 , C
France, 60 j avs * g (( .
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Molly, Captain Pitt, from Lisbon,
/V FEW pipes and quarter-calks of LISBON WINE, far
fnperior in quality to what is generally imported
And a few bales of the very' belt CORKS,
TO BE SOLD BY
George MEADE,
" . WHO HAS ALSO FOR. SAJ.E,
Y® OICe three and five years old Bill ot'Sxpbajlgc MADEIRA
;VviNE, by the pipe or quarter-calk.
; Loudon Market MADEIRA WINE, five years old, by the
pifw or quarter-cask.
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-calk.
of a fuperier quality, and such as is fit for
a 'V? .India voyage, put up in, this city.
Choicefirft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto second ditto do.
equal to any frsmi. flat country.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the firft qualitv an 4
114'Hhds. FLAX-SEED. &c. &c. '
J Amy 16, 1752
April 27, 1702.
TO BE SOLD AT RRIVATE SALS,
At any lime between ihe fir(t day,of, Jply ensuing,
A very valuable FARM, '
PI.EASANTIY litueted, and bounded on (he East by the river
Delaware, 17 mil« alcove Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft ra.tc Timothy Meadow, which may le
watered in a dry time ; 25 aoes, a rich low bottom, inay be made
very good meadow at an cafy The upland lays in the
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marsh, from which (by an ealy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expfnee ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing stream of water runs-througb this tra&, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook ; plenty of rabbits and small game j and on the fhts, abun.
dance of wild ducks it) the fcafoiy. A good manfion-honfe, gar.
den, and neccflary out-buildings i an orchatd of the be ft kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherrv trees, bearing; a cropol wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to
„. E T E , R , L , E BARB,ER Du Ples ? ls > Efq- N0.86, Chefnut-ilrect,
Pniladelphia ; Mr. Hum ph key Waterman, at the Walliinr
tqn, on the Bliftol road; or 10 Doctor Tomb, at Ncthamany
Ferry, Bucks County. The purchafcr, paving one third of il,e
price down, may have a term of years to pay ihc rclidue, paving
"" crefl - May 5 . (ep.tf.j '
Stock Brokers Office,
TNo. 4 S) Great Dock-ltreet, New-York,
HE Subscriber intending to confine himfclf entirely to the
PURCHASE and SALE OF STOCKS ON COMMISSION
IJegs leave to off v his ferv.ces to his friends and others, ,n the
line of a Stock. Broker. Those who may plcateto favor him with
their business, may depend upon having it tranfafied with the ut
moll fidelity and difpaich.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of the
Unucd States will be finally attended to.
May 2
Jones &c Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
B„ v State.Street, BOSTON,
UY and fell every k.nd of the Stocks of the United Slcta, on
CommiflTion, by Pnvate ContraS, and Public Auction _
rhofe gemlemu. who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
Eg/lon, March, >79 ,. (,aw 3 m)
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
O " VE f H , bND,If - D .DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
V at the opt.on Of the party, will be g,v cn bv the Com.
mi ill oners of the Federal Building,, ,o the perlo.t who, before the
fifteenth ..ay ol uly next, shall produce to them the moll „p
proved LAN, if adopted by them, for a PRESIDENT'S HGUSF
to be erected in tl.,s City. The site of the building, if the artilt
I X and V ft" ' ; '"" rc ,nflucnce lheaf "Id outline of
his plan and us oettmation wijl point out to him the number
hze, and distribution of the apartments. It will be a rccommen '
< ifipril of any plan if the ecntral part of it may be detached and
creaed for the prcfent, w.th the appearance of i complete whole
shall h, ' admitting the additional pans, in future, if ,| U y
.11 be wa "'"'g- Drawings will be expeatd of the ground plats
eicvauons of «c,i front,and feGlon. through the building in such
dlreflionsas may be nec-ffary to explain the internal ft,„f ture .
Qt b ' i£k - wo ' k compor I ng the
March 14, 1792
WASHINGTON, h the Territory of
A Premium
value, at the opt.on of the party ; wl || be ziven bv th, r
"•"a, «S£™;
A Conference Room ) Efficient to ac _-j
A Room for [he Representatives f c "m'""date 3 oo | theferooms
A Lobby or Amichamber ,o the lauer^"" 8
A Senate Room of ,200 square feet area | tl0 " C ' eVa "
An Antichamber or Lobby to ih- lail
0! the walls. brick-work comoof.ng the whole mass
March 14, 1 -jq 2
'■f- THE COM MISSION' F RS.
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC )
the SUBSCRIBER hath opened A '
House of Entertainment
At !h, Slg „ of i he PRESIDENT of the UNITED ST \TFS
" >at CO ' m " 9dlOUS '-ly occupied by S f L
~ , , Mayor of this Town q '
wi" a of ' thc and
fcafon, the bell of every l-ccics oforif t" J".' >cul ln their
JU ,J GEORGE H. LEIGH.
13
C e P9')
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(<•'•)
THE COMMISSIONERS,
j Bank of the United States,
RESOLVED, That the fpeae propose,
JLV nu.ut due on the fit ft Monday of luiv «ex' nn rarli n, '
«h« of.be UnucdW,. Jy J,
M° !l K " ° CO "" L i "" 1 P °- U 1 a "d that tranters of
pubhc dcbtOH account ot Inch payment, mav he "
books ot the Trclury of the United States, or in the office ofa'ny
of the Cowmifliomrs of Loans in any ot the Sates, certificates of
w.iuh transfers to be depofiud in the officc in which the foeei,
proportion ot fuel) paymem fnall be made. F
Rcfolvcd, That !he transfer books be closed fourteen days ore
vious to the firtt days of July and January ot each year.
Kv Order, JOHN KF.\\ T Cafhi
A LATTERY,
ag lr j at », C "'*'! 3ti oltlle ' Lc s' a *' u, e il>c State of N cw . l cr f ev '
pdiica November 1701. J *\
1
2
5
10
30
9°
1675
Prue of i'Doo Dallais is sooo
idi 4 P',jzes.
3520 Blanks,
5331 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 1600 Dol's
fiT ThisLuti'Ty is co.npoled of 5334 T.ckcls. „ ot ttto
to onel'nze.and fubjcil to, a deduftio,, o( twelve and an haift2-
ant, which IS more favojable to adventurers than any Lonav vet
offered K> the public -ami ,t bang ot such evident utility, t h J it
cannot he doubled but the undertaking will n.ert with the most
liberal lupport. '
1 he drawing will pofuively commence on the second Monday
in July, o.fooner if the Tickets are disposed of, ,n ,he city o{
New-Bronfwick, under the infocflion of Col. John liayard p re
fidlnt of fa.d city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor - os the city of Am
boy; and Archibald Mercer, lift]. Deputy Governor of the \la
nuta6luring Socrety of New-J-rfey.
1 ickctsllo be had ot the following peifons, who are duly an
po.med Managers, are under oath, and have given (ccurity for tLe
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he pubbfhed, and th.
pnz.es paid immediately after the drawing of the LoUerv
lOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, ( Mawger.
ANTHONY W. WHITE.\
N. B. Thole pnzes which are no, demanded within fix monUi,
after the d,awing of .he Lottery, w.ill be considered a, a generous
donation to the Church. "
» Advei.tur.rs ,n the above Lottery have a chance of more
th... 3 cent, per month tor their money. To accommodate
Ml hole who may be d.fpofed to purcbafe Tickets, letters direS.
Ed to P Keenon, Manager, and Poft,natter, at Ncw.Brunfwick
«nd enclofmg good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for-!
warded on reccipC of fych letters.
New-Brunfwtck, April 20. 1 790.
F O R SALE,
bloomsbury
yHAT elegant SEAT at.be Fall, ot Delaware, in the viciqity
thr f„M N^w-Jcrfey, occupied for many years pall by
l ( J containing upwards ot 200 acres ot la:id, besides
a traa of wood-land of about ,85 acre,, at the distance of two
Tremnnf rT " dm ? Cd by ,hc main fading from
en 1 La '°bcrton ; and Philadelphia, i,„o two parts, nearly
equal in quantify; the eaflwaidly pa,t being arable land .. laid
off in convenient field, and good fanning order. The oth.r
part, hounded by the fa,d street on the call, and by the nver oa
the well forms 4 qua.e; which, from the combined effect of fiw
ation and implement „ generally allowed to be one ofthe moil
l>eau.tful and deli,able (eats in the IW. The mansion-house is «
handfonu-, wflUnilhed brick building, 5 o by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two ftorv brick
kitchen ; and Commanding 3 very extenf.ve and pleating view < f
me nv._r, both above and below, as well as including ,he fall., and
alio of 1 re,Hon and the neighbouring fears and improvements on
both (ides of the river. Among the ou.-buildings are 0 new Hone
coach-house and fhblrs, fufticent to contain fix carnages and tea
horses, accommodated w.th a cu,ting and feedmg room, and , ca
pacious loft lor hay ; adjoining ihcft is a very complete granarv,
rat Pro, ; f, and a (lone cow-houlV, upwards of too ftet in length;
containing thirty-one paved flail., over which is a roomy loft for
hay.&r Adjoining the coutt-yard pi the mansion-house, is a gar
r tn of about two acrrs, extending towards the river, in the highcii
Rare of culture and abounding with a rich colkflion of the
choicest fruits of almoil every kind, and several large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the ccntre ofthe fqnare, is a new, well
r ' l ' onc ,ar ' r, - ho " fc » accommodated with a largecheefc-room,
lpnng-houfr, garden, See. a complete (lone smoke-house, corn
enhs, waggon-house, a capacious icc-lioufe, and everv oilier ne
ee lary out-balding. The ground is properly divided inlo small
field,, all well walered, highly mipioved, and chiefly under ihe
moll approved grass. This ftjuare has pioduced annually, for se
veral years part, upwards of sixty ton. of the be ft hay, befidcs
supporting through the summer f.afon twenty to thirty horned
-tt , an eig tor ten horles. It contains alio two bearing or
chards o. good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper failons,
With great plenty 0! all kinds of fifli usually (ound in frcft water
in this climnte, and with a variety of wild-fowl; boih of wlnei.
mavattord a plealing acmfement to the sportsman, as well at a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his table. The
whole ofthe land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and divided
>\ c uces, great part o( winch is formed of red cedar polls,
and rans of chefnut and white cedar. The purchaser may have
Ihe improved (qnaie separately, or the whole together, as may
bell .u,t him 1 here is an inexhauflible quantity of good build
ing pne on ihe river shore. 'i he purchase money, if well fecurcd,
an< t ie mterefl puntfually paid, will not be demanded for many
years.
Any Pci son defirnus of viewing the ptcmifcs, may be gratified
° n ' cal,on to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. of Trenton,
or ; i. nal i.man, whp at prcferit occupies the far m-houfeand
part o tic ianp and may know the price on application to the
"" ( r M Kr > at No. 213, South Sccond-ftreet, opposite to the New-
Mnrkpr. In Philadelphia. JOHN COX.
Twenty Dollars Reward.
"O UN AWAY f.om the fubf.riber, on Monday the 9th cur*.
rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROUIN, >s c{ years of age,
out ma e, and bred a farmer; oneof his thumbs much swelled;
is 5 \"-i (1 inches high ; had on when he went away a big purple
C,o 'nred cloth coat, a (hurt linen coat, a pair of fullian breeches,
a rufbed Ih.rt, au old beaver hat, with (hoes, (lockings and buckles,
all good. Alio, a youu<7 NEGRO BOY named SAM, is 19
vrais at age, (lout and well made, 5 feet 9 inchej high, much
mai cd with the small-pox ; had on when he went away, a big
nine cna'. a browijt short coat, overalls of a mixed cloth, fulled
ttockings, a new wool hat, ne* (hoes and buckles. Whoever
vytll secure said Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to the fub
enher, ibjll receive the above reward, and all reasonable charges
P a " ■ ALEXANDER ROBERTSON.
Morns-Town, April 17,1792.
SCHEME.
1000
5 6 P
200
100
5°
20
4
♦I,
"l
5E
d
IOO'D,
1000
1000
IOCQ
l s°®
1800
6700,
16000