&(tzdU
A NATIONAI. PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH.STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. hi, of Vol. lII.]
SECOND CONGRESS OP thf. UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SRSSION,
Begun and held at the city ol Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
sylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thouland seven hundred and ninetv-one.
An ACT for raising a further Sum of Money for
the Protection of the Frontiers, and for other
Purposes therein mentioned.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Reprefcntatives of
the United States ot America, in Congress airemblcd, That
from and after the last day of June next, the duties now in force
upon the articles hereinafter enumerated and described, at their
importation into the United States, shall ccafe, and that in lieu
thereof, there shall be thenceforth laid, levied and collected upon
the said articles, at their fa id importation, the several and respec
tive rates of duties following :—viz.
Wines: namely, Madeira, of the quality of London particu
lar, per gaUon fifty fix cents: —Madeira, of the quality of London
market, per gallon, forty-nine cents :—Oiher Madeira wine, per
gallon, forty cents :—Sherry, per gallon, thirty-three cents: —
Saint Lucar, per gallon, thirty cents : — Lisbon, per gallon, twen
ty-five cents :—Oporto, per gallon, twenty-five cents; —Tene-
rifFe and Fayall, per gallon, twenty cents—All other wines, forty
per centum ad valorem, Piovided that the amount of the duty
thereupon shall, in no cafe, excecd thirty cents per gallon.
Spirits, distilled wholly or chiefly from grain :— Of the fir ft
class of proof, per gaJl6n, twenty-eight cents : —of the fecorrd
class of proof, per gallon, twenty-nine cents : —of the third class
of proof, per gallon, thirty-one cents:—of the fourth class of
proof, per gallon, thirty-four cents :—of the fifth class of proof,
per gallon, forty cen;s :—ot the sixth clals of proof, per gallon,
fifty cents.
All other distilled spirits:—Of the second class of
proof and under, per gallon, twenty.five cents :—of the third class
of proof and under, pei gallon,twenty-eight cents :—of the fourth
class of proof and under, per gallon, thirty-two cents: —of the
fifth class of proof and under, per gallon, thirty-eight cents: —
of die sixth class of proof and under, per gallon, forty-fix cents.
"Which fevera! clafTes or denominations of proof shall be deemed
and taken to corrcfpond with those mentioned in the 44 ast rc
-44 pealing after the last day of June nexr, the duties heretofore
44 laid upon distilled spirits imported from abroad, and laying
4< others in their stead, and also upon spirits distilled within the
44 United States, and for appropriating the fame."
Beer, ale and porter, per gallon, eight cents :—fteel, per hun
dred weight, one hundred cents :—nails, per pound, two cents :
—cocoa, per pound, two dents :—chocolate, per pound, three
cents : —playing cards, per pack, twenty-five cents :—fhoes and
flippers of silk, twenty cents :—all other shoes and flippers for
inen and women, clogs and golofhoes, ten cents : —all other shoes
and flippers for children, seven cents : —on hemp, for every one
hundred and twelve pounds, one hundred cents :—on cables, for
every one hundred and twelve pounds, one hundred and eighty
€cnis :— on tarred cordage, for eveiy one hundred and twelve
pounds, one hundred and eighty cents: —on untarred cordage
and yarn, for every one hundred and twelve pounds, two hun
dred and twenty-five cents :—on twine and pack-thread, for eve
ry one hundred and twelve pounds, four hundred cents :—on
coal, per bushel, four and a half cents :—on falls called Glaubt r
salts, for every one hundred and twelve pounds, two hundred
cents.
Articles ad valorem : — China wares, looking glass, win
dow and other glass and all manufa£lures of £lass, black quart
ton les excepted ; muskets, piflols, and other fire arms; swords,
cutlafles, hangers and other fide arms; (larch; hair powder;
wafers; glue;' laces, lines, fringes, talTels. and trimmings com
monly used by upholftcrers, coachmakers and fadltrs, and paper
hangings ; painters colours, whether dry or ground in oil—fifteen
per centum ad valorem : —caft, flu and rolled lion, and generally,
all manufa&ures of iron, steel, tin, pewter, copper, brass, or of
which either of these nutals is the article of chics value, not being
other wife particularly enumerated, brass and iron wire excepted ;
cabinet wares ; leather tanned and tawed, and all manufactures
of leather, or of which leather is the article of chief value, not o
therwise particularly enumerated ; medicinal drugs, except thoft
commonly used in dying ; hats, caps, and bonnets of every fort f
gloves and mittens ; (lockings ; millenary ready made ; artificial
flowers, feathers and other ornaments for women's head dresses ;
fans ; dolls, diefTed and undressed ; toys ; buttons of every kind ;
Carpets and carpeting, mats and floor cloths ; fail cloth ; sheath
ing and cartridge paper; afll powders, pastes, balls, balsams, oint
ments, oils, waters, wafhe , tinfturrs, clTcnccs, or other prepara
tions or compofnions commonly calltd fweil fctnts, odois, per
fumes or cosmetics ; all dentrifice powders, tinflures, preparati
ons, or compositions whatloevcr for the teeth or gums,—ten per
centum ad valorem.
Provided always, and be it further ena&ed, That all articles
•which are excepied and exempted from duty by the u a£b mak
ing provision for the payment of the debts of the tJnited States,"
shall continue to be so excepted and exempted, and that, to the
articles heretofore made free from duty, the following shall be
added, namely, copper in pigs and bars, lapis calaminaris, unrtia
uuta&ured wool, wood , sulphur.
And be in further cnaftcd, That from and after the last day of
June next, in computing the duty heretofore laid upon fait, a
bushel of fait shall be deemed not to exceed the weight of fiftv-fix
pounds avoirdupois : and as often as the a&ual bushel of fait shall
exceed the said weight, such fait shall be charged in the proporti
on of the prelcnt rate of duty per bushel for every fifty-fix pounds
of its attual weight.
And be it further ena&ed, That after the said last day of June
next, thv re shall be laid, levied and colle&ed, in addition to the
present duty thereupon, a duty ©f two and a half per centum ad
valorem, upon all gosds, wares and merchandizes, not above enu
Saturday, May 19, 1792.
merated or described, which, if imported in ships or veflels of
the United States, are now chargeable with a duty of five per cen
tum ad valorem.
And be it further cnafted, Thai the addi'ion of ten per cen.
turn made by the second feftion of the " ast making further pro
vision for the debtsof the United States," to the rates ot duties on
goods, wares and merchandize, imported in ships or veflels not
of the United S'ates, shall continue in full force and operation,
after the said last day of June next, in relation to the articles here
in befoie enumerated and described.
And be it further enaftcd, That all drawbacks and allowances
authorized by the ast aforefaid, which have not been heretofore
abolished or changed, shall continue to operate, as in the said ast
prescribed in relation to the several duties which lhall become
payable by virtue of this ast, and that in addition thereto, there
(hall be allowed and paid upon provisions faltcd within the Unit
ed States, except upon dried fifh, upon the exportation thereof to
any foreign port or place, as follows, to wit : On pickled fifh,
at the rate of eight cents per barrel, and on other provisions at the
rate of five cents pcT barrel ; and f'om and after the fir 11 day of
January next, there shall be an addition of twenty per centum to
the allowances, refpeftively granted to Ihips or velfels employed
in the bank or other cod-fi(heries, and in the terms provided b)
an ast, intituled, " an ast concerning certain fifheries of the Unit
ed States, and for the regulation and government of the fifhermen
employed therein," and during the continuance of the said act.
And be it further t nafted, That all dunes, drawbacks and al
lowance which, by virtue ot this ast, shall be payable or allowa
ble on any fpecific quantity of goods, wares and merchandize,
shall be deemed to apply, in proportion, to any quantity more or
lefsthan such fpecific quantity.
And be it further enacted, That the term of credit for the pay
ment of duties on fait shall be nine months, and on all articles,
the produce of the \Veft Indies, fait excepted, wbtne the amount
f the duty to be paid by one person or co-partnership shall ex
ceed fifty dollars, shall be four months, and that the duties on all
other articles, except wines and teas, which shall be imported af
ter the last day of June next, shall be payable, one half in fix, onr
quarter in nine, and the other quarter in twelve calendar months
from the time of each refpeftive importation.
And be it further enacted, That the ast intituled, 41 an ast to
provide more etfeftually for the colle£f">n of duties imposed by
law on goods, wares and merchandize imported into the United
States, and on the tonnage of ships and vcflels," and as touching
the duties on eiiftilled spirits only, the ast, intituled, " an ast re
pealing, alter the last day of ]unc next, the duties heretofore laid
upon eiiftilled spirits imported from abroad and laying otheis in
their stead ; and also upon spirits distilled within the United
States, and for appropriating the fame," shall extend to, and be
in full force for the collection of the duties fpecified and laid in
and by this ast, and generally for the execution thereof, as fully
and effeftudlly, as if every regulation, reftriftion, penalty, provi
sion, clause, matter and thing therein contained had been herein
infertcd re-enacted.
And be it further enacted, That all wines, which, aftei the Paid
last day of June next, (hall be imported into the United States,
(hall be landed under llie care of the infpeftor of the port where
the fame (hall be landed ; and for that purpose, every permit for
landing any wines, which (hall be granted by a collector, shall,
prioi 10 such landing, be produced to the said infpeftor, who, by
endorsement thereupon under his hand, Ihall (igrnfy the produc
tion thereof to him, and the time when, after which, and not
other wife, on pain of forfeiture, it shall be lawful to land the said
wines. And the said infpeftor shall make an entry of all such
permits, and of the contents thereof, and each pipe, butt, hogs
head, cask, cafe, box or package whatsoever, containing such wines,
shall be marked by the officer under whose immediate infpeftion
the fame shall be landed, in legible and durable characters, with
progressive numbers, the name of the said officer, and the quality
or kind of wine, as hereinbefore enumerated and distinguished.
And the said officer shall grant a certificate tor each such pipe,
butt, hogshead, cask, cafe, box or package, fpecifying therein the
name or names of the importer or importers, the (hip or vessel in
which the fame shall have been imported, and the number thereof,
to accompany the fame wheiefoever it lhall be sent. And if any
pipe, butt, hogshead, cask, cafe, box or package, containing wine,
shall be found without such marks and certificates, the fame shall
be liable to be seized, and the want of such marks and certificates
(half be presumptive evidence, that such wine was unlawfully im
ported and landed.
And be it tuithcr enacted, That every person, who shall have
in his or her pofTefTion, wines which are intended for sale, in
quantity exceeding one hundred and fifty gallons, shall, prior to
the said last day of June next, make entry thereof in writing at
some office of infpeftion in ihe city, town, or county where he or
ffie shall reside, fpecifying and describing the casks, cases, boxes
and other packages containing the fame, and the kinds, qualities
and quantities thereof, and where, and in whose polleflion they
are ; and the officer of infpeftion at whose office such entry may
be made, shall, as soon as may be thereafter, visit and infpeft, or
cause to be visited and infpefted, the wines so reported, and shall
mark, or cause to be marked, the casks, cases, boxes and packages
containing the fame, with progressive numbers, with the name of
the per (on to whom the fame may belong, the kind or kinds
thereof, and the words Old Slock and shall grant a ccrtifi.
catc for each cask, cafe, box or package, containing such wine, de
scribing therein the said cask, cafc, box or package, and the \a ines
therein contained, which certificate fhafl accompany the fame,
wherever it may be sent. And if any person who may have wines
in his or her po fie (lion for sale, shall not, prior to the said last day
of June next, make entry thereof, as above directed, he or (he,
for such oiniffion or neglect, shall forfeit and pay the value of the
wine omitted to be entered, to be recovered with costs of su it, for
the benefit of any person who shall give information thereof, and
the wines so omitted to be entered, shall be forfeited.
And be it further cna&ed, That from and after the last day of
December next, no beer, ale «r porter, (hall be brought into the
United States, from any foreign port or place, except in calks or
veiTcls, the capacity whereof shall not be less than forty gallons,
or in packages containing not less than fix dozen of bottles, on
uain of forfeiture of the said beer, ale or porter, and of the ship or
veflel in which the fame shall be brought.
And be it further enacted, That the fcveral and refpe&ive du
ties aforefaid, except that mentioned in the fourth fettion of this
a£l, shall continue to be levied, colle&ed and paid, until the debts
arid purpofei, to and for which the duties, nereby dire&ed to ccafe
after the lafl day of June next, were pledged and appropriated,
shall have been fully paid and fatisficd; and that so much thereof
as may be necefTary, (hall be, and arc hereby pledged and appro
441
[Whole No. 519.]
priated, in the fame manner, for the fame purposes, and with the
fame force ai>d efleft, as thofc which 31 e hereby directed 'o ceafl
atter the said last day of June next ; and that so much of the resi
due thereof as may be nectflary, shall be, and are hereby appro
priated for making good deficiencies in any funds which may
have been defignatcd lor fat'.sfying grants and appropriations here
tofore made.
And be it further eriafted, That the additional duty of two and
an half per centum ad valorem, fpectfied in whe fourth frftion of
this ast, shall continue for the term of two years, from the com
mencement thereof, and no longer.
And be it further enacted, That the sum of one hundred and
fifty thousand dollars, out of the surplus of the duties which ac
crued to the end of the year one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-one, and a farther sum of five hundred and twenty-three
thousand five hundred dollars, out of the surplus of the duties
hereby established, as the fame shall accrue, making together tlx;
futti of fix hundred and seventy-three thousand five hundred dol
lars, shall be, and are hereby appropriated and applied, in add.-
fion to any former appropriation for the military establishment j)i
the United States, towards carrying into execution the ast, inti
tuled, " An ast for making farther and more effectual provision
for the protection of the frontiers of the United States."
And be it further enacted, That the President of the United
States be empowered to take on loan on account of the United
State.', from the president, directors and company of the bank of
the United States, who are hereby authorized and empowered to
lend the fame, from any other body politic or corporate within
the United States, or from any other person or persons, the whole
or any part of the aforefaid sum of five hundred and twenty-three
thousand five hundred dollars, to be applied to the purpofc to and
for which the fame is above appropriated, awd to be reirnburfed
out of the aforefaid surplus of the duties by this ast imposed,
which surplus is accordingly appropriated to the said reimburse
ment. Provided, That the rate of interefl of such loan shall not
exceed five per centum per annum, and that the principal thereof
may be reirnburfed at the plcafure of the United States.
And be it fuYther ena&ed, That so much of the ast, intituled,
44 An ast to provide more cfTeftually for the collection of duties
imposed by law on goods, wares and merchandize imported into
the United Slates, and on the tonnage of ships or vessels," as hath
rated the livre tournois of France at eighteen and an half cents,
be, and the fame is hereby repealed.
And be it enacted and declared, That if the principal, in ahy
bond which shall be given to the Ur.ited States, for duties o.i
goods, wares and merchandize imported, shall be insolvent, or if
such principal being desd, his or her estate and efiefts, which shall
hare come to the hands of his or her executors or administrators,
shall be inefficient for the payment of his or her debts, and if, in
either of the said cases, any surety in the said bond, or the execu
tors and administrators of such surety, shall pay to the Ufuted
States the monies thereupon due, such surety, his or her executors
or administrators shall have and enjoy the like advantage, priority
and preference, for the recovery and receipt of the said monies
out of the estate and effects of such insolvent or dcceafed princi
pal, as are refer ved and secured to the United States, by the forty
fourth feftionof the ast, intituled, " An ast to provide more ef
fectually for the collection of duties imposed by law on goods,
wares and merchandize imported into the United States, and on
the tonnage of ships or velTels," and shall and may bring and
maintain a suit upon the said bond, in law or equity, in his, her
or their own name or names, for the recovery of the monies which
shall have been paid thereupon. And it is further declared, That
the cases of insolvency in the said forty-fourth feftion mentioned,
shall be deemed to extend, as well to cases in which a debtor, not
having fufficient property to pay all his or her debts, shall have
made a voluntary aflignment thereof, for the benefit of his or her
creditors, or in which the estate and effects of an abfeonding. con
cealed or anfent debtt>r, fhail hare been attached by procels of
law, as to cases in which an ast of legal bankruptcy lhall have
been committed.
And be it further enabled, That the President of the United
States be, and hereby is authorized to appoint such place within
the diftrift of Vermont to be the port of entry and delivery within
the said diftrift, as he may deem expedient, any thing in the ast,
intituled, " An ast giving effect to the laws of the United States
within the state of Vermont," to the contrary notwithstanding.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Houje oj Representatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, trefident
pro tempore of the Senate.
APTROVED MAY THE SECOND, 1 792.
FROM THE AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER.
Mr. Dunlap,
AS Corner Stones to public buildings are merely intended
for the information of pollcrity, when their ruins may be
searched, to trace their antiquity, nothing should be handed
down by the press, which, profeffing to be authentic, is an in
correct relation of a fart. Your paper of this morning, con
tain?, as a reader would be apt to suppose, a copy of the in
scription on the corner stone of the President's house, taken
by a person who had feeti it.
I will take the liberty ofprefenting you tvith a true copy,
taken from the stone as it lay in the stone cutter's shop. That
the inscription you have been pleased to give is not superior to
that on the stone, I will not after t; but as old Hearne, tfye an
tiquarian, would have deemed it an unpardonable deviation,
if chance had presented to his view an antique falfely delcrib
cd by a writer cotemporary with the artist, I would gladly
screen you from the Hearnes of future days. The true in
scription is as follows : {( This Corner Stone, of the House to
accommodate the President of the United States, was laid,
May 10, 1792 : when Pennsylvania was happily out of debt;
Thomas Mifflin then Governor of the State/'
WARDENS OFFICE.
ALL persons acquainted with the River and Bay of Dela
ware, and willing tr> take charge of veflels and tonduft
thera either to fafe anchorage at Reedy Island, or to sea, will
find immediate employment and good encouragement, by ap
plying to the Board of Wardens at their office in Walnut
ftreet. NATHANIEL FALCONER, M. W.
Philadelphia, May 17, 1792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
SATURDAY, March 31.
In committee of the whole on the report of th; Secre
tary of th: Treafnry on the public debt ; the fijib
proportion reported by the feletl committee refpells
a further assumption of the State debts, was read.
MR. GERRY ofFered a few remarks on the
fubje<ft—and urged the jallice and found
policy of compleating a buiinefs which had
for reasons well known, been left in an unfin
ilhed state ; but which equity and precedent
now called 011 Congress to finifh.
Mr. Clark was opposed to the proposition
Mr. Hartley : After so long a difculfion my
attempting to take up any great length of time
would not be excusable, but I consider it my
duty ro fay a word or two in answer to some
expreflions and observations ui'ed against the con
stitution and operation of this government ; and
give a few realons why I (hall now vote for the
resolution under consideration.
it will not be necellary for to rake into view
the principles upon which the constitution was
framed ; they were fully examined in the ge
neral convention as well as the several State con
ventions, ank ltood the test of the ftridteft scru
tiny. They are favorable to liberty and justice.
As to tlie operation of the government we
may best understand it, by contrasting the state
of America at the adoption of the constitution
with the present day. At the former period our
credit as United States of America was at a low
ebb. Few of the individuals of foreign coun
tries would give a credit to the individuals of
this. The capitals of Europe would not be trust
ed in America.—They doubted our justice as
well as our government ; there was scarcely any
credit given to individuals here ; a nniverfal
diftrull prevailed. Agriculture languiflied ; the
farmer diffident—he had loft his confidence ;
the great fpuv to indultry was wanting.—No
(hips on our flocks, few veflels in your harbors—
commerce decoyed ; the vital spirit loft. I might
fay more—but I will turn from a difigreeable
scene to one more pleasing.
What is our present (late ? The credit of our
government is as good as that of any country.
Individuals of all nations will trust the individu
als of America. Individuals here (until a late
unfortunate bubble or abuse of credit, arising
from bad men or bad management and which
will poflibly only do hurt for the moment) gave
full credit to each other as far as their capitals
extended, as well in the city as in the country
and confidence prevailed.
Agriculture where the people are indtiftrions
and apply their attention to the raifiug of thole
articles which are most in demand, is in the
highest improvement ever known here before
I can speak with confidence of the State I live in.
The idle and indolent can expert no great
cess in an art which depends upon the (teady
hand of industry.
There are ships on the stocks in every part
where there are fliip-builders and materials. The
tonnage 1i 11 will evidence the mighty increase
of the American shipping ; It has far exceeded
the most sanguine expectation. Several of the
firft merchants state your commerce in a molt
refpedtable situation far beyond any other pe
riod. Indeed, the returns from the Secretary
of the Treasury (hew la iw great our imports and
how vad our exports.
In point of juitice our reputation (lands high
with the world. Our courts will do justice.
Pray what foundation for thole llrong afler
tions which have been made against
tution and the government ?
As to the funding system I shall fay little at
present. I much doubt if it deserves' the hard
names which have been given it. Abuses will
be committed in ail countries ; no human plan
can be secure against them.
The afl'umption of the State debts was fully
considered upon a former occasion. Severkl of
us wilhed to fund the debt of the union alone,
many gentlemen of the south when we came to
look for ways and means, voted against us, and
the eaftei n 1 eprefentatives were always ready
to join in defeating us, unless the aflumptiou of
State debts also rook place.
The bill pad the House of Representatives for
funding the debt of the union alone; but the
Senate lent it back with an amendment aHinninn
State debts to a certain amount. After much ar
gument the amendment of the Senate was agreed
to by the House of Representatives. Jufticewas
nearly done to some States ; others do complain
and 1 think Rhode-Island with much real'oii.
I could have wiftied that the accounts between
the United States and the several States had been
fettled. But I will give the gentlemen who
complain so much, an opportunity of fatisfying
this house (if they are able) when the blanks are
to be filled up in the bill, that the funis they de
mand-are reasonable and are intended to give re
lief to the people of their States.
1 will vote for the resolution
Mr. Find i-e y, in answer, faicl :—lf I am not
altogether so elated with our present profperitv
and resources, as my worthy colleague who is
jult (at down, laffure you 1 am not despond
ing 1 think our relources are competent,
and our circunidances not deprefled ; the great
indultry of our citizens, and the great de
mand and high price for our produce in foreign
markets, which took place about two years ago,
gave a spring to our wealth and industry, and
fornilhed ample resources to government ; our
feelings have not been pierced with the cries of
general distress, nntil very lately, through the
abuse of the novel principles introduced in the
funding system.
But though I rejoice with the gentlemen 111
the fufficiencv of our means, yet I consider our
selves in the (ituation of an unexperienced heir,
newly come to the enjoyment of a great estate,
who, being dazzled with his own splendor, and
confident of his means, sets about spending with
out fyltem or principles, and gets embarrafied
before he is aware.
We are told, that the principle of afluming
the State debts is already admitted by the lalt
Congress, therefore it ought to be completed
now ;we are juit told, too, that it was fully con
sidered there.
lafkrhen, Why was not the bnfinefs fully
complered at that time—if it was not, then what
good reason can be given for carrying it further
now ?—ls there any new discovery of better
rules to apportion by, or is the distress of the
States who have yet some unaffumcd debt, as
prefling as when they had to bear the burthen of
three or four millions more than now ? Gentle
men knew that the length thisbufinefs has gone
already, has given great uneasiness to those
States who made the grea eft exertions to extin
gui(h their own debts, and to whose circumltan
ces and feelings the resources applied to the as
sumed debts of the States, are diflreifing and
disagreeable.
For what purpose are the commifijoners em
ployed in adjusting the accounts between the in
dividual States and the United States, if the
whole of the State debts were to be afl'umed pre
vious to that settlement ? We know the govern
ment is not vested with powers to compel delin
quent States to do justice, and that if ever justice
is done to those States who have extinguished
their own debt, it must be by iiicreafing of the
general revenue in proportion to the money
Congress will have to pay to those States, and it
is an unjuflifiable and dangerous policy to draw
the money from the people with the one hand,
to pay ir to the state governments with theother.
I have such information as 1 can depend upon,
that the commissioners will report upon the final
settlement of the State debts, in the-courfe of
next winter ; and the resolution before the com
mittee makes no provision for interefl until af
ter the year 1792. Why then take this further
leap in the dark, when those States who will be
actually entitled to it, will be as soon relieved
according to the principles of justice, as thev
would be by diltributing the public property in
this manner by rule of thumb.
T always thought the afiumption of the State
debts a meafnre which the constitution did not
contemplate, and which had a tendency to sow
the feeds of discontent in many parts of the Uni
ted States, and now it is argued that the piece
dent being set by the last Congress we ought to
copy it :— 1 admit of no principles of infallibi
lity in Congress—and if precedents produce an 1
obligation, we ought to be the more careful ncft
to (trengthen them by repeating such as are im
proper or doubtful. The only plausible reaf'ow
for afluming the State debts in the last Congress
so far, was to ease the burthen of such States as
had been mod backward in providing for their
refpedive debts, so as that they might be able
to provide for what remained until I he accounts
would be fettled, and to make some provision
for the Srates who had done much to extinguish
their debt as a security that the debts would be
brought to a final settlement. Certainly tliofe
Srates, at whose desire, and for wbofe conven
ience so much has been done, ought to have a
little more moderation.
Mr. Madison observed, that a great deal had
been laid to prove that the general government
is under obligation to provide for the debts of
the individual States : The gentlemen who
maintain this opinion said he, have not shewn
that the creditors themselves ever entertained
an idea that they fliould look to the United
States for payment of those debts ; it is not pre
442
i (ended that ilie new constitution varies the fit ß
anon of . lie creditors-they It and precifel, "
the lame ground they did under the old confe.
deration. Mr. Madison denied that in"the for
tner aflumption the creditors of the individnal
States were considered in the fame point of light
as the creditors of tile continent, and for the
truth of this he appealed to thelaw itfelf " ma k
ing provition for the public debt."
The proposition now before the committee he
confiderekl as unjust as it would place fume of
the States which had made no exertions to ctif
charge its debts, in a more eligible fi'uatiuu
than those winch had made the greatelt exer
tions to efFetft that objetft. He denied that the
"rlt aflumption had been generally approved or
had heen acquieiced in—and adverted to'the
proceedings and resolutions of the State of Vir
ginia on the fubjetft j papers (aid he, are on the
table to (hew the truth of what is now aflerted •
he added that he was sorry to find that 110 more
attention had been paid to those papers. Mr
Madison then noticed the slate of imports and ex
ports from the several States, to ftiew the une
qual operation of the aflumption as it affetfts
those States, particularly Virginia,which pays f 0
great an overproportion of the interest on the
debts of some of the States.
Mr. Gerry stated a variety of instances to shew
that the debts of the individual States were al
ways considered as founded ultimately on the
faith of the union ; that the creditors had ta
ken the paper of the States on that idea—that
the States were considered as agents for the Uni
ted States—and on this principle the contracts
for l'upplies and services on a continental ac
count had been which the war
must have ceased, and the subjugation of the
United States have followed.—Mr. Gerry re
marked on the partiality and evident injolticeof
leaving the pofleflbrs of the remainder of the
state debts totally unprovided for.
The qneltion on agreeing to this proportion
was carried in the affirmative this day, 5? to 2J
but was eventually loft.
LONDON, March 5.
It isfaid the Lords will carry Mr. Haftings'sde
fence into the country with them during the rc
cefs, and think upon it at their Jeifure. Weflioitfd
rather presume that they havefufliciently thought
upon it already.
Extrafl of a lett:r from Paris, "Jan. 26.
" The prodigious and progreliive fall of the
exchange 011 Prance in every commercial place
in Europe, is but too true n consequence of the
immense decay of credit, which mult e-ifue from
the fort of chimerical government under which
we live at present, in our way to the better fort
of government we were promised by this afton
idling revolution. —It will come no doubt ; but,
in my opinion many eflential changes in thepre
fent conftrudiion of the machine mull previonfly
take place ; till then it will be the lotos the present
generation to be totfed about on a very rough
sea indeed.
" Tlie relotn'ce of afTignats, which consider
ing their excellent security, when used in mo
deration, might have proved thefalvation of the
country, finee they actually enabled the National
Aflentbly to do at Jeaft one whole year without
taxes, independent of the redemption of a great
part of the debt ; those aflignats, I fay, have
proved poison in the hands of the weak and the
wicked ; for inflead of using them sparingly and
temporarily as a gift from heaven, to fiin/h and
fettle the conftitntion, they have leaned on then
as on a very convenient pillow, and cared much
less about reltoring proper force to government,
which wai, however the only certain means of
enforcing the payment of taxes. They go on
digging into the mine till at la(t they find the
quick ; they are not near it neverthelcfs, for
the church land is worth fullchree milliards and
an half [a milliard is iooo millions] equal to ip
millions flerling, of which one milliard remains
at illiie, besides the immense valueofthe forells,
which, without injuring the interests of the navy,
may yield perhaps twenty millions fterhng-
What a country ! surely tlie moll exalted imagi
nation could not bave wished for a richer foil
for improvements and remedies of every kind,
had they been but well husbanded."
NOOTKA SOUND
Many abfnrd reports having crept into the pi
pers on the fubjec't of the indemnification to be
given to thole gentlemen who fuffered by the
capture of their (hips, it is neceflary to state the
aiftual progress of this affair.
The Spanish agent or Envoy, who is now here,
had it in commiilion to enquire the amount o
the damage follained, that is, the value of the
ships, their cargoes, See. This was ftatefl at
ijo,oool and this sum he is autliorifed to p*y-
But the fufferers make another demand ; W " )C ,
is, tlie Aippofed profits that would have accme
by the trade, for initance, carrying their furs to
the China marker. The Envoy fays, he has no
commission to allow any thing for this loss a"
here the matter Hands for the juefent.FROM THE NATIONAL GAZETTE.
To SIDNEY AMD the WHISKEY-DRINKERS.
YOU are an unreasonable set of fellows, to make such a
plaguy rout about a paltry excise. What! do not you
know it has the ianction of some of the moil experienced dis
tillers in the United States, men of wealth and opulence, wno
could buy and fell the whole ragged race of whi Ike y-drink c:,
twenty times over ? When Mem beiis of Congress rile in their
places, and mode ft ly inform the House that they are person
ally concerned in some of the most extensive distilleries in
New-England, you cannot furelv imagine those honorable dis
tillers would be such fools as to join in any plan to ruin the d:l
---tillerv—that of rum and gin* I mean —tor as to your vulgar
whilkey, it is not to be expedited that gentee!, well-bred men,
ftiould pav any regard to such mean plebeian liquor. When
they a (fur 3 you that New-England gin is equal at least, it not
superior to any th at is imported, can you question the
truth of their disinterested aflertions, or hesitate to swallow
their rum and their gin, together with their excise, in prefer
ence to your filthy whilkey, that is only fit to poison the hostile
Indians ? ~
If you were not an ungrateful antifederal crew, you v, <-».. ici
thank them for sparing you the trouble of distilling toi your
felvcs. All the plague and pother of whilkey-brewing « ill now
be at an end : You will have nothing more to do henceforward,
than to drag down your grain to the sea-coast, a trifling
diftaice of five or fix hundred miles (which is nothing to a
back-woods-man) and there barter it for the ambrof.al juices
of the New-England stills. Ought you not to think yourselves
happy to (ret any thing for the redundant produce of your
farms? How much worse would be your situation, if the yn
distillers were to take it for nothing ?
Take a hint from a friend : hold your tongues, and either
pav the excise dutv, or break up your stills, left an army of
militia, collected from the gin and rum distillers, ftiould be
sent out into the back country, to make you ling a diiterent
tune over your whilkey. llecollecr the law that has been
lately palfed, authorizing the Vrefident to march and counter
march the militia as. lie pleases. Recollect and tremble : tor
although the present chief magistrate would never confetit to
murder his fellow-citizens for drinking liis health and toaftmg
th- federal constitution in a glass of un-excised whilkey, wiio
know, what freak his fucceflor may take into his head, il ever
he get; it heated with higli-proot rum or gin >
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE world mav be considered as a new settlement. Tiieie
is only a patch under good improvement. Part of Europe
is the flower-garden, and yet what a multitude of foul weeds.
They have grown rank by manuring and hoeing the- p.&nts
But they seem to be weeding and new lavmg out the garden.
Even in Europe, what briars and thorns, and barren shrubs.
Ruflia is a naked heath. Spain is the field of the lluggard.—
On every ilde what room for improvement. India indeed is
the homestead which leems to produce the most abundantly for
the family of mankind. America is abu (h pasture for the young
cattle. It will soon become the garden and the wheat field for
the hungry world.—But Africa is the range of wolves and
Hons, some on four, some on two legs.
It would he some consolation to an old philosopher, to fee tuc
labor of maiikind directed to the bettering and bringing to, the
great common farm.—The time will arrive when our poflenty
will read extracts from the Gazettes of Angola, and will hear
of the universities of the Hottentots. The juries of Bengal
will try causes, and the free representative afl'emblies of Con
stantinople and Grand Cairo will be diftinguilbed for their elo
quence and wisdom. Industry will cover the earth, now bar
ren, with plenty, The fogs of ignorance will vaniili, and
man restored to his eve fight, will fee nature and exert all his
power to adorn and improve it. Is this a vision > Why tell us
so ? Let the imagination regale itfelf with a feaft of its own
cooking. Bvit is not this progress evidently begun and tar
advanced, and what shall stop it > The Goths and Vandals,
and Huns and Tartars are not to renew their irruptions and
to destroy the arts. The Northern hive swarms no more.
But science and the arts shall penetrate the regions where the
Roman eagles never flew. The wild Arabs shall be sedentary
and improve the arts by their inventions. The Caspian lea
lhatt be hospitable to commerce. The future ages will won
del-at the barbarous state of the present. The human mind
cannot remain inactive,either knowledge ahd civilization must
turn retrograde or continue in their present-progress till ig
norance and barbarism are banished the earth.
Philadelphia, May 19.
ABSTRACT OF FOREIGN NEWS.
A foip arrived at New-York on Tuesday, in 39 days from
Glasgow, by which European accounts are received to the
29th March—These fay, that incredible quantities of all kinds
of ammunition daily arrive at Namur—-That the Emperor of
Germany died suddenly in the arms of his wife, at Vienna, the
firft of March, of an inflammation in the lungs and bowels—
subsequent articles in the Engliih papers fay that he was taken
o;f bv poifon —the lufpicion tails on various defcnptions of
perrons—the Monks, the Brabanters, the Emigrants, and the
Jacobins, are mentioned —probably all innocent but the great
inuft have something extraordinary to kill them. Immediately
on the Emperor's decease, his foil Francis "took the reins of
government in the Austrian Monarchy—the garrison of Vlenna
took the oaths to the eldest foil of the Emperor two days after
lik father's death.
March 16. Medals made of the iron bolts of the Baihlewere
presented to the members of the Legislative Aifembly. When
the Queen of the French heard of the death of her brother the
Emperor, Ihe said, " If my misfortunes were not before at
their height, their measure would now lie filled."
Reports of every kind are in circulation in Paris great
tommotions are said to exist in Flanders. — The day after the
news of t! " Emperor's death was received, the fifh-women
were marching to ptefent a pike to the Queen; they were
flopped however by the guard.—Accounts ei e received that
Aries, Carpentras and Avignon, were in a state of open re
volt ; the anti-revolutionists had driven away or imprisoned
all tl'e patriots. —M. Dumourier is appointed French Minister
for foreign affairs, and M. Lacofte, Minister of Marine.
Count Florida Blanca, Prime Minister of Spain, has been ar
retted, and afterwards exiled, and his papers fealcd. M.
D'Aranda is his fuccefTor.
An express over land arrived at the India-House, London,
the 24th March—The intelligence is said to be, that Lord
Cornwallis took Seringapatam by storm on the 15th Novembei
last. His loss said to be 433 Europeans, and 7000 natives.—
That Genera! Meadows was killed, and Lord Cornwallis
wounded. India Stock rose 2 per cent. r This turned out
to be a hum.}
The new King ftf Hungary, it is fait!, in letters from Vienna,
of the sth March, had countermanded the troops that were
marching, and had declared that he wo*dd have no concern in
the disturbances of France. —The Prince Royal of Denmark
has published aji arret, by which the slave-trade is to cease,
and be forever abolished after 1803.
The beginning of March an earthquake was felt in several
parts of England—some old houses were ftiaken down, but no
lives loft.
By the shin Brothers, Capt. Anderfon, arrived here in seven
weeks fromLifbon, accounts are received that Doaor Willis
had arrived there from England—found the Queen in a very
alarming situation— —but his treatment of her, had been attend
ed with very favorable fymptoin* —*"he Oueen having lo far
recovered when Capt. Anderfon fnilcd, as to lecognize those
about her person. The Doctor will doubtless meet a suitable
reward.
The Princ£ Recent has acquired great reputation for the
affectionate attention paid by him to his mother in the course
of her illness; having constantly fliewn the most solicitous
anxiety for her recovery.
Salem, May 8.
WAR BETWEEN FRANCE AND SPAIN.
Captain W. A. Perry arrived at Marblehead on Sunday
night last from St. Martins, which place he left the 16th of
April, and brings the following important intelligence.
That the dav he failed, a brig arrived from St. Lucie, the
master of which (James Green) informed Capt. Perry, among
manv other gentlemen in the public coffee-houfe in that place,
that an Englifti man of tvar arrived at St. Lucie the day be
fore he left it, the commander oi which informed the French
Commodore there, that WAR was declared between France
arid Spain. This intelligence was communicated by Captain
Green in the molt public manner, so that no doubt ol its truth
wai entertained at St. Martins.
[This news was repeated by an arrival at this port from
St. Xitts, but is most probably premature.]
The Pre fide nt of the United States arrived at Baltimore last
Saturday evening—he pursued his route on Monday following.
We are informed that very large sales of lands, the property
of this state, have been recently made—and fold on such prin
ciples, and in such quantities as will induce a speedy populati
on of the fame. Such is the present situation of affairs inmost
of the European States, that we may reasonably expert great
emigrations to this asylum of freedom.
His Excellency Samuel Huntington is re-elected Gover
nor, and the Hon. Oliver Wolcott Lieutenant Governor of
the State of*Comie<sKcut.
M U M.
At the General Election at Newport, on the 2d instant,
his Excellency Arthur Fenner, Esq. was chosen Governor,
and the Hon. Samuel J. Potter, Esq. Deputy Governor of the
State of Rhcde-Ifland.
Morse's Geography is printed in London on fine wove
paper.
The Onartermafter-General of the state of MafTachufetts
(fays a late Boston paper) has employed Col. Revere, of that
town, to cast sixteen brals field-pieces, for the use of the Artil
lery of that state.
The last Pittlburgh Gazette, received by post yesterday,
contains no account of any recent depredations of the In-
dians.
Extrad of a letter from a gentleman in Havannah to his friend
" The famous Mr. Bowles and thrtc of the principals of
the Creek Nation were brought in here a few days since—Mr.
Bowles was conduced to the Moro, where he now remains,
and it is thought the depredations he has committed on the
Spanifli settlements will cost him his life. It is reported that
he was in the action against St. Clair."
The facts contained in the article entitled, " Reflections
on the State of the Union," copied into the G. U. S. from the
American Museum, are a complete refutation of the principal
(landers on the people and their government, which constitute
the celebrity of some publications.—N. B. All forts of weapons
are allowable in a cause, the advocates of which, stick at no
thing.
A correspondent observes, that the paragraph copied from
the National Gazette, in our last, refpefting counterfeit certi
ficates, is a specimen of the ftimfy foundation on which the
moll: formidable charges against public measures are raised.
Let it never escape the recolle&ion of the friends to the
union, that the persons who now oppose the government of the
United States, and its administration, are of the fame cut with
those who have kept the world in a state of fermentation thro'
all ages. "
As there never was, so there never will be a perfect system
of government —but, that system ispofitively bad, fays Chro
nus, which X have no hand in administering.
In this countrv, the people made and uphold the government.
It lives and moves, and has its being from them. Their power
is seen and felt not only in revolutions which alter its form,
but in the ordinary arts of its administration. Not a particle
of authority is held but from them. They chufe the legisla
ture they make their voice heard after they have chosen
them, and if they concur in their wifties, the general sense is
obeyed. The government trusts the execution of the laws to
civil force, to the marfhaJ, and the people themselves called,
if necefTary, to his afliftance. They, as grandand petit jurors,
have the laws in their hands, and in effect, as well as in ap
pearance, wield the sceptre. They may be said, as truly as
any people on earth, to be a royal people. They are sove
reigns, and have already (hewn sense and prudence enough to
make us throw up our hats and (hout.—God save the people—
Long may they reign. This is no rant, but a truth which
even' American, unless degenerate, will glory in. But men
, are not wanting who dare to represent to the people this go
vernment as a despotism. The newspapers are (luffed with
licentious invectives as if they were aimed at the administra
tion of Turkey or Tippoo Saih—and all this while a man who
(lands unrepro&ched as well as unrivaled (its in the chair of
authority, while the nation prospers and grows in numbers, in
wealth, in refpeflability, while knowledge increases, and adds
something daily to the security of liberty and the means of
happiness. What will happen when adversity, to which all
nations are liable, (hall have (harpened the edge of discontent,
when personal rival(hips (hall have engendered and armed fac
tions with deadly hatred,when the little remnant of authority
left to government after these deductions, (hall be turned a
gainst itfelf, heaven, that disposes of men and their concerns,
and makes them the instruments to puni(h their own vice and
folly, only knows.
443
in New-Port, dated April 10.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS'.
LOAN OF THE UNITED STATES.
BY- the 44 Ast supplementary to the ast for making provi
sion for the clebt of the United States," it is provided that
the term for receiving on loan that part of the domestic debt
of the United States which hath not been fubferibed purAiant
to the above ast, flia.ll be extended, on the fame terms as in
the above ast is provided, to the firft day ot March, I793~~"
Books to be opened bv Commiflioners oi Loans in each State,
on the firft day of June next.
Non-fubfcribing'creditors to receive an intereifc equal to the
lubfcribinp, on interelt and principal of To much ot their re
fpe&ive demands, as on or before the firft day oi March fliall
be registered.
The term for receiving the unfubfcribed part of the state
debt, agreeable to the fame ast, is extended to lit March,
1793 —the books to be opened as above, on the firli ot Jnne
next.
The CommifTioner of Loans for North-Carolina is not to
be allowed to receive any certificate ilTued by PatrickTravers,
or by the Commilfioners of Army Accounts at Warrenton.
The debt due to foreign officers, the interest whereof is
payable in Europe, to be paid off and discharged, principal and
interest.—The reft of the ast relates to the finking fund. The
whole lhall appear in the next number of this Gazette.
APPOINTMENTS.
Joseph Howell, Accountant to the War Department.
Caleb Swan, PayreSrfter to the Army in the V/eftern
Territory.
SHIP NEIVS
ARRIVALS AT the PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Brothers, Anderfon, Lisbon,
Sampson, Howell, Canton,
Hope, Trefdale, Port-au-Prince,
Brig Nancy, Horton, St. Johns,
Polly, Charnock, Cape-Francois,
Industry, Franklin, St. Thomas,
All veiTels outward bound arc to rendezvous at Reedy Island,
and on Monday next proceed from thence to sea, wind and wea
thei permitting, under orders and directions of Capt. Lawler,
who will then lead the way with the (hip of the largest draught
of water. Mail.
rice of Stocks as in our laji
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the subscriber, on Monday the 9th cur
rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROBIN, is 55 years of age,
flout made, and bred a farmer ; oncof his thumbs much {welled;
is 5 feet 6 incites high ; had on when he went away a big purple
coloured cloth coat, a short linen coat, a pair of fuftian breeches,
a ruffled shirt, an old beaver hat, with (hoes, stockings and buckles,
all good. Also, a young; NEGRO BOY named SAM, is 19
ycaisofage, ftoutand well made, 5 feet 9 inches high, mucii
marked with the small-pox ; had on when he went away, a big
blue coat, a brown short coat, overalls of a mixed cloth, fulled
stockings, a new wool hat, new (hoes and buckles. Whoever
will secure said Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to the sub
scriber, lhall receive the above reward, and all reasonable charges
paid. ALEXANDER ROBERTSON.
Morris-Town, April 17,1792
BOOKS,
printed and sold 6Y
MATTHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. A MERICAN MUSEUM, fiom its commencement in Janu
l\ ary 1787, to December 1791, in ten vols. Price, neatly
bound and lettered, sixteen dollars.
This work, which is now conduced on an improved plan, con
taining the best pieces published for and against the proceedings
of government, will be found to contain at leafl as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and miscellaneous tffays, as any ever pub
lished in America. Perhaps in no one work are so many valuable
documents refpe&ing the history of this country, collected toge
ther. His Excellency the President of the United States, has de
clared of it, that " a more ufeful literary plan has never been un
dertaken in America, nor one more deserving of public encou
ragement." The fubfeription is two dollars and a halt per ann.
Gentlemen in the country who wish to be supplied with this
work, are requested to give commifiion to friends in the city to
(übferibe for and receive if Any of the back numbers may
be had in order to complete fcts.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss More's EfTayj,
Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pennington's Advice, Manrhioncfs of
Lambert's Advice, Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs.
Chapone on command ol Temper, More's Fables for the Ladies,
Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New-York, from its firft settlement to
the year 1732. To which is annexed, a description of the coun
try, with a (hort account of the inhabitants, their religious and
political Rate, and the constitution of the courts of justice. Piice
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beattie, l. l. d. pro
feflor of moral philosophy and logic in the Marifchal College,
Aberdeen—Price three-fourths of a dollar. Oi this book, the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : " We have seen nothing
on these fubje&s more plain, more pcrfpicuous, or more generally
ufeful." N. B. It is introduced into the Univcrfity in Phila
delphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, British and American, containing feleft
productions of the molt eminent British and American poets-
Price four-fifths of a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the three volumes
of the Biitlfh edition, in two—-Price two dollars.
7. Necker's Treatise on the importance of Religious Opinions-
Price four-fifths of a dollar.
8. Examination of the Observations of Lord Sheffield on Ame
rican Commerce—Price, on very fine paper, 5 Bthsofa dollar.
9. The Conflitutions of the several United States, with the Fe
deial Constitution, &c. Price five-eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in i2mo.—Price
three-eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jefl Book, in two parts, with two very neat en
gravings— Pricc, bound, three-fifths of a dollar.
12 Garden of the Soul, by Bishop Chalenor—Price, bound in
calf and lettered, three quarters of a dollar—plain, half a dollar.
13 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bible, in quarto-
Price, elegantly bound and lettered, 50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecuna— Price a quarter dollar.
15. Think well on't, or refle&ions forevery day of the month.
Price a quarter dollar.
16. Christian Economy, translated from a Greek manuscript,
found in the island of Patmos, where St. John wrote the Apoca
lypse -Pn ce a fifth of a dollar.
17. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged—Price a sixth of a
dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third of a dollar.
19. Selefl Poems, chiefly American-—Price a sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment of Books, Euro
pean as well as American which he will dispose of on the
moll icafonable terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied in the most fatisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to such as purchase quantities
for public libraries, or to (ell again.JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Jlolly, Captain Pitt, from Lisbok,
A FEW pipes and quarter-casks of LISBON WINE, far
superior in quality to what is generally imported
And a few bales of the very best CORKS,
TO BE SOLD BY
George Meade,
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
Choice three and five years old Bill of Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or quarter-cask.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-cask.
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-cask.
MESS BEEF, of a superior quality, and such as is fit for
an East-India voyage, put up in this city.
Choich firft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto second ditto do.
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that country.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the firft quality, and
114 Hhds. FLAX-SEED. &c. &c.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1792 ( e P9')
For BRISTOL,
The Ship . Birmingham Packet,
Leeson Simmons,
A remarkable fact sailer, her jargois all ready—nevert'nclefs, to
accommodate those -who may he diipofed to put freight on board,
it will be taken ill. She will fail in a few days. For freight or
padage, apply to the Captain on board, layiug at Walnut-ftieet
V/harf, orto GEORGE MEADE.
Thofc who have goods on board, are earnestly requcftcd to
enter them, take out their permits, and give the necelTary direc
tions to their porters to attend the (hip.
N. B. The owners are determined that the ship shall leave
Bristol with the firft Fall ftiips.
May 14.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-Ilreet, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf entirely to the
PURCHASE AND SALE of STOCKS ON COMMISSION,
Begs leave lo offer his fcrvices to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to favor him with
their business, may depend upon having it tranfafted with the ut
most fidelity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of the
United States .will be ftridtly attended to.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(t.f.)
JV lay 2.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the firft day of July ensuing,
ii
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and bounded on the Eafl by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy expence. The upland lays in the
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marsh, from which (by an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing stream of water runs through this tract, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook ; plentv of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good mansion-house, gar
den, and necessary out-buildings; an orchard of the best kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees., bearing; a crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to Dr.
loh n Gi bbons, in Arch-street, or Peter Le Barbier Du
Plessis, Esq. No. 86, Chefnut-ftreet, Philadelphia ; Mr. Henry
Waterman, at the Washington, on the Biiftol road; or to
Mr. Joseph Baldwin, at Nefhamany Ferry, or Mr. Barnet
Du ree n, fame place, Bucks County. The purchafcr, paying one
third of the price down, may have a term of years to pay the re
ffdue, paying interest. May 5. (ep.tf.)
Farms & Mills for Sale &Lease.
TO BE SOLD,
A VALUABLE FARM, situate on the Turnpike Road lead
ing from Baltimore-Town to Rifter's-Town, about 6£ miles
from the former ; containing about 430 or 440 acres of good
farming land, 70 or 80 acres of which are excellent grass ground ;
about 170 acres are cleared, upwards of twenty whereof are made
meadow; the rcfidue abounding in good timber, and other trees
for enclosure and fuel: There are two apple-orchards thereon,
and buildings that may do, for the present, for an Overleer and
bis family.
Also, aTraftof LAND, containing about 600 acre , within
two miles of the fame road, and about 18 or 20 miles distant from
Baltimore-Town ; about 700 acres whereof are cleared, well en
closed and improved by culfure and with valuable buildings, some
excellent meadow, near 20 acres, made.
Also, a small FARM, ori a public road leading to fjid town,
about the fame distance therefrom as the last described land ; con
taining 103 acres, whereon is an txccllent apple-orchard, but no
other improvements of much value.
The two firft above-mentioned Farms are furnilhed with (laves,
dock of each kind, and all necelTary implements of husbandry,
vhich may be had with them ; they are sown with wheat, which
promises an abundant crop;—the business of the last of the two
has been, for nine years, and is now, conduced by a (kilful in
dustrious Manager, who may be continued in the management,
on terms. °
A FARM, on the said Turnpike Road, leading from Rifter's-
Town to Winchefter,Taney-Town, Frederick,and Hager'sTown
whereon is erected a large commodious brick house, that has been
used for some years pall as a tavern, and, by a tenant qualified for
that bulinefs, could be made an excellent stage ; within a few
rods of which, and on the main Falls of Petapfco, is also er»fted
a GRIST-MILL, now in good order for Merchant-Work, with a
new SAW-MILL, and Land therewith.
For the title and terms of sale, and the lease, of all or any part
of the above valuable property, apply to
Baltimore County, March 7, 1792
Ps WANTED, the Ftrft Volume of the Gazstij of the
United States—for which Six Dollars will be paid by
the Editor.
April 27, 1792.
TO BE LET,
THOMAS TO\'ES.
[6t]
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very fiift quality, and latest importation from Canton, via
New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
ADVERTISEMENT.
TICKETS in the NEW-BRUNSWICK LOTTERY, are to
be had at the following placcs, viz.—Samuel Cooper's
Ferry; at Builington, of R. Pierlooj Esq. Bordentown, of Mr.
John Van Emburgli ; Mount Hollv, ot J. Read, Esq. 1 renton,
of John Singer, Esq. Amboy, of James Parker, Esq. El'.zabeth-
Town, of R. Gray; Powles-Hook, of Col. Smith and Judge
Hunt; Craubury, of William Throckmoiton Spolfwood ; and of
the Managers in Brunfwick.
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC.)
THE SUBSCRIBER HATH OPENED A
Honfe of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of the UN ITED ST ATES,
Id that commodious House lately occupied by Thomasßßea t Esq.
Mayor of this Town.
He has furnifhed himfelf with a flock of the bed Liquors, and
will life every exertion 10 give fatisfa&ion by procuring, in their
season, the bed of every species of provision, and having the fame
served up in the moll neat ana elegant manner.
[tawiftjul.] GEORGE H. LEIGH.
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
State-Street, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind of the Stocks of the United States, on
Commiflion, by Private Contra#, and Public Auction.—
Those gentlemen who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
Eoflon. March, 1792. ( raw 3 m )
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY VIRTUE of an order from John Holmes, Edmund
Weatßerby and Benjamin Holmes, Efqrs. Judgesof
the Court of Common Pleas for the Count* of Salem, directing
us to make Sale of so much of the Lands of Benjamin Cripps.
in the Townlhip of Manington, in the County of Salem aforefaid.
as will defray the expences attending the division or petition ot
Lands held in common between Abraham Hewlinc and thi
aforefaid Benjamin Cripps, agreeably to an ast of Assembly, &c.
In pursuance of the above order, will be Sold by public Vendue,
a trad or piece of Land (or as much thereof as will defray the
above expences) being part of the above, foliate and bounded b)
Lands of Job Shreeve, the aforefaid Abraham Hewlings, and
others, on seventh day 26th of May next, 1792.—At the houfi
ofHeury Sparks, Inn-keeper in Salem aforefaid—by
WILLIAM GOODWIN,;)
JOHN WISTAR and V Commiflioners.
THOMAS CLEMENT, )
20th April. 17Q3
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing ehe
Protellant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Biunfwick,
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature of the State of Ncw-Jerfey,
passed November 1791.
SCHEME.
t Prize of 2000
1 icoo
2 500
c 200
d
10
3°
90
1675
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
ThisLotteiy is composed of ,5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prire, and fubjett to a deduction of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being ot such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the most
liberal support.
The drawing will positively commence on the fecortd Monday
in July, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the citv o!
New-Brunfwick, under the infpe&ion of Col. John Bayard, Pre
sident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Am
boy; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufa&uring Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets 10 be had ot the following petfons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given fccurity for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he published, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, C Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
N. B. Those prizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confidcred as a generous
donation to the Church.
%* Adventureis in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per mouth for their money. To accomm d te
all those who may be disposed to purchase Tickets, letters dnect
ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Poftmaflcr, at New-Brunfwick
and enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for
warded on receipt of such letters.
New-Brutifwick, April 20. 1792.
Bank of the United States.
March si, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders he, and hereby art, au
thonfed to compleat their Shares by payment at any time
belore the periods required by the law oi incorporation.
Resolved, That each Share so compleated, (hall be entiiled to
draw a dividend of the profitsof the BanK,from and after the firft
day of the month next fuccceding the day of compleating such
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's interest upon the Pub
lic Debt transferred to compleat any Share as afcrcfaid, as ihall
have accrued belore the firft day of the month next fucteeding the
completion of such Share, Ihall be received by the Bank, and paid
to the persons who Ihall have transferred the fame.
By order of the PreGdent and Directors,
(''• n " lt ') JOHN KEA, Cxjkitr.
fr-f* the Pofl-OJjicc Ast, after the frfl of June next, newjpaperj
Jent by the mail are fubjetl to poflage of one cent each paper, for
100 miles carriage, or lefs—andfor all dtflances wore than an hundred
• miles, one cent and an half each, paper. The poflage to bepaidb\ the
Suhferibers, at the office where the papers are delivered. As it
is optional with Subscribers to receive their papers through thz medium
of the Pofi Office, or to control with the Stage Proprietors, the putrans
of this Gazette, vfthin a ffiort diflance of this city, may End it advan
tageous to adopt the latter mode.
444
Dollars is
2000
1000
1000
1000
toco
ico
5°
20
4
1500
1800
6700
16000
Bank of the United States,
May 8, 1702
"D F.SOLVED, That the specie proportion of the thud
XV ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each (hare of
the Bank of the United Sratcs, may be made at the Bank, or 2t
any of ibe offices of di fcount and deposit; and that trans'fers of
public debt on account of luch paymem, roav he made on the
hooks of the Treasury of the United Stairs, or in the office o fan v
of the Commiflioners of Loans in anv ot the Slates, cenificat-s of
which transfers to be deposited in the office in which the fpcc.e
proportion of filch payment ffiall be made.
Rcfolved, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre.
vious to the firft days of July and January of each year.
Bv Order, JOHN KEAN, CafhVr
At a muting of the Directors of thi Bakk ot
the United States, March 30, i^qg.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Difcouui and DVpnfit be
authorised to receive ot Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Slock of ihe Bank, and
that the Cafhieis of the said offices give duplicate receipts for inch
payments, oneot which receipts, accompanied with evidence of a
transfer of public debt fufficient to complete laid (hares, upon be
ine produced at the Bank, shall entitle such Stockholders tu cer
ti trates for full (hares, artd to all the benefits of, ihe Refolutioiu
ot the Board of DiVeftors passed the 21ft instant, relative to com
pleting (hares by paymentatauy time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the President 3nd Direflois.
JOHN REAM, Cajhier.
American Lead Manufa&ory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN* & Co.
HAVE juftnow opened theirLiAD-WAiteKousE, two doors
south of Walnut-llreet Wharf, adjoining their New Faflory-i
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general assort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, (he
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. At they have etnplayed*
number of experienced Englifk .workmcnj they warrant it 10 be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the atxjve articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addieffed to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and execntcd on the
lhorteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Laboming Men, at the fiid
vlines, where conflant employ, good wages, and other encourage,
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
irtufes for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Moses Austin&Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia. December 3, 1791
BLOOM SBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
ot Trenton, in New-Jei fey, occupied for many years pad by
the fubfciiber ; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, bcfidt*
a tra£l of wood-land of abour 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main street leading from
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two pans, nearlv
equal in quantity ; ihe eaflwardly part being arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the said flreet on the east, and by the liver 011
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined effect of situ
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the mofk
beautiful and desirable feats in the Rate. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-finifbed brick, building, 50 bv 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellais, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extensive and pleasing view of
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new stone
coach-house and stables, fufficient. to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining these is a very complete granarv,
rat proof, and a stone cow-house, upwards of 100 feet in length,
containing thiriy-one paved stalls, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, Sec. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is a gar
den of about two acres, expending towards the river, in the highest
state of culture, and abounding with a rich collc&ion of the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and several large afparagut
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, weii
built, ifone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheese-room,
spring-house, garden, &c. a complete (tone smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-lioufe, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
cefrary out-building. The ground is properly divided into fmutt
fields, all well watered, highly impioved, and chiefly under the
moll approved grass. This square has produced annually, for fc
veral years part, upwards of sixty tons of the befl hay, besides
supporting through the summer season twenty to thirty homed
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper feafoos,
with great plenty of all kinds of fifti usually found in frefh water
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both of which
m?y afford a plcafing amusement to the sportsman, as well as a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his tabic. The
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is iqclofed and divided
bv good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar ports,
and rails of chefnut and white cedar. The purchaser may have
the improved fquaic fcparately, or the whole together, as mav
best suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good build
ing flone on the river (bore. The purchase money, if well secured,
and the interest punttualiy paid, will not be demanded foi many
years.
Any peifon desirous of viewing the piemifes, may be gratifi'd
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. of Tienton,
or Mr. Ikallman, who at present occupies the far m-houleand
part of the land—and may know the price on application to the
fubferiber, at No. 213, South Second-ftrcet, oppofne to the New-
Market, in Philadelphia. JQH\ T COX.
4W.CT>.
Publilhed this day, and to be (old by
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
Bookseller, No. 54, Second-street, South—and by all the principal
Bookfelleis in Philadelphia— Price $ths of a Dollar,
FROCEEDINGS IN the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
of the United States of AMERICA,
Refperting the
contested election
For the Eastern Diftrift of the State of
GEORGIA.
CONTAINING the petition of General 7'antes J*ckfo* t *&™k
the el#£tioa of General Anthony 11 dyne, and the proteed>ng>
relative to the Resolutions directing the mode of Conducing the
Trial; with a sketch of the debates fiom the commencement to
the end of the business ; including the speeches of the parties,*
Iketch of Mr. Lewis's defence, council for Gefieial Wayne, »n
the concludjng speech of General Jackson. for which he receive
the applause of the auditors: also, the subsequent proceedingso
the House refpefting his right to a feat after the election of the
tin£ member had been declared illegal.
Together with a SUPPLEMENT, f
Containing a summary of the proceedings of the Leg: nature*'
Georgia, relative to the Impeachment of Judge Ojttrrx.
FOR SALE,