PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 72, of Vol. lII.]
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPR ES E NTATIV ES,
MONDAY, December T9.
DEBATS ON THE REPRESENTATION BILL.
{ The Senate had amended the bill by encreafing the ratio jrom 30,000,
to 33,000 ; the House had djagreed to this amendment ; the Senate vo
ted to adhere. It was moved in the House this day y that they Jhould re
cede Jrom their disagreement.]
MR. AMES laid, the amendment proposed by the Senate,
though a iingle propofnion,, involves two qucitions, which
it wnl be proper, on this occalion, to discuss dillinctly.
Is ihe bill wrong, as the House pal Ted it ? and is the proposed
amendment of the Senate fit and proper ?
The original bill gives the latio of one member to 30,000 per
sons, and proceeds to stare the number of Representatives which
the refpe6tive Slates fhail have in the next Congiefs. If in this
dillribution of members, it shall appear that we have not pur
sued tnconfliiution, the bill is a bad one, and it is our duly to
concur with the Senate, at leafl in finking out the exceptionable
part.
Tne conflitution dircfts that Representatives shall he appor
tioned among the fcvcral States according to their refpctfive num
bers. The tt n >fe number of Reprefeniativcs being firlt fixed,
they fh ' apportioned to any Siate accoiding to its census.
Then; I tinee will shew what part of the reprelentation any
State I.: The wisdom and caution of the conftuutioo
have - - tie to Congress in this affair. Though Congress
is to 1 the members, ihe rule of apportionment is fixed ;
thenumb.ro: Rc puft ntatives will be 112. Tnele are to be ap
portioned to < . cii > ate according to its numbers. What part of
she 112 membeis will Virginia have according to its people?
The answer is e<ifily lound. Virginia, having 630,000 persons,
(which is her federal number, after deducting two filths for the
fbves according to the constitution) is entitled to 19 members?
The bill gives her 21. Isthat nglK ? Who will (ay tnat the words,
or meaning of the conflitution are puriued ? Are the Re prefenta
tives,then, apportioned or dilpioporttoned ?
We may believe the 1 1 lull ol figures. The sum is short and easy I
to reckon. Let us not then p<rlill in a measure which palpably
violates the constitution. Tne aiguinent might flop heie—but,
to shew how other States will be wrong d by the bill, it may be
well topioceed. If the conllitution had been silent, as we are
men, common lenfe would have told us, and as we aie freemen,
we Ihould nave Icai ned from our habits of acting—that an une
qual reprefentaiion is wrong. But the conflitution is not filcut,
ansi yet the bill gives Virginia 21 members.
The States of Vermont, Hew-Hamplhir , Rhode-Island, Con
necticut, New-Jcrlev and Delawate. have 766,428 persons, and
they will have by the bill only 21 membeis. With upwards of
one hundred and thirty thouland per'ous more than Virginia,
they will have no more members ihan that fingie State.
"1 hus Virginia has by ihe bill iwo members more than her due
number compared with the who e union, and not less than four as
u relpp&s the lix States before mentioned.
From this view of the operation of ihe bill, I draw this con
clufion,which I presume is anticipated,that the proposed diihibu
tion ol representatives is neither just and iqual 111 ufelf, nor war
ranted by the conllitution.
If lurther evidence of this injustice should be demanded, it can
be turnifhed. Rcpreltntaiives and dire£t taxes are to be appor
tioned by the fame rule—and there is a manifeit propriety 111 the
rule—in the dillribution of benefits and burden?-, the conflitution
has wilely excluded this means and temptation to partially.
It is an additional fecunty to our property that those who hold
the power are made to feel it when they exercile it ; and that ex
actly in the d egree that ihey hold it ; taxes are to be apportioned
according to the numbers in the refpe£tivc States. It would not
be alio wed by the conflitution to use one rule lor apportioning
taxes and anothei for tne members. If two things are to be com
pared with a third and made equal to it, it follows that they mult
be equal 10 each other. Let us suppose ihis bill to have become a
law; and for the more piainly fhewmg its tendency, let us sup
pose Virginia to have 630,000 persons, her true number, and 21
members, and the 13 States to have, as Delaware actually has,
59.000 persons each, and one member to each State—in the whole
1 <397> 000 P €| fens. Let us suppose a tax to be laid equal to a dol
lar tor each perlon in the 14 States, that is, a tax ol 1,397.000 dol
lars. V irgmia, in point ol justice, and by ihe couftilutton, should
pay only according to her numbers, or 630,000 dollars ; yet Ihe
would pay 21 parts in 34, or 1,007,000 collars, being 377 000
more than her proportion. Whether with 21 members in 34 this
wrong would be imposed or submitted to } is not my qucltion.
1 his maybe called an exti erne cafe ; yet in fact Delaware, New-
Jerley, Connecticut,New-Hampfhire and Vermont, on a tax equal
10 a dollar a head, would avoid more than 150,000 dollars of
their just proportion ; the justice and the conflitutionality of luch
an apportionment of taxes aie upon an qual looting.
Lztraoidinary as this flattment may teem, it is not easy to shew
an authoiity in Congreis to apportion a tax 011 any other princi
ple. It would not do to deprive a State of its pioporlion of
mein ers, and yet to laddie it with taxes, according to numbers :
I he departure from the rule ol the conflitution in the cafe of re
prefeniativcs would be rendered both more flagrant and more
ga by an adheiente to it in the imposition of texes. Such a
comment upon thi* law would filcnce its advocates, such an ex
ecution of it would disfranehife the fufferers.
But this is not the country, and I trust this is not the govern
ment to do a violence ol this fori— therefore no tax would be Lid
and yet, unless a new census should be taken, or a new law, at
lea It, tor apportioning icpreieniai ives should be pa (Ted, Congress
might be found d. flitute o! one of its conttilutional faculties.
1 he gentlemen who vote for this law have been importuned to
defend 11; anxious as wc are undw the fear of feeing the coitfti
Wednesday, January 4, 1792.
tution and our primal y civil rights violated, we have liitened to
hear regions which would shew fomc refpeft tor the one and the
other. It is needless to decide v hether men's pafTions will be
soothed or their under Handings convinced by an argument of this
kind—that as the small States are equally with the large ones re
presented in the Senate, the advantage which the bill will secure
to Virginia in the iepiefentative branch is fit and proper, and
that ii was To intended by the Conftilution. Is one inequality if
it reallf exilted to hp balanced by another ? Because the confu
tation has secured to cach S:ate an equal vote in the Senate, are we
at liberty to make a new confutation as often as w£ make a re
presentation law, to counterpoise it ; and under a form of govern
ment contrived to feeure equal liberty, and to fix right above
opinion are the measure and the nature of this retribution to
the great vStates to depend on our arbitrary difcietion ? This an
fwei is perhaps moie feiious than the argument. Let it be re
futed by itfelt.
Because the great States fuffcr wrong in the constitutional com
patl, w ill this bill do them right? Is Maflachuletts or North-
Carolina benefited by giving Virginia two extra members? B/
this bill the great States are injured as well as the small ones. The
lmall ones are injured as it refpe£U each other. Delaware will
have one member, Rhode-Island two—yet the latter has only
nine thousand more people than the former. But the doflrine
tears up the foundation otcompa&on which we Hand, and under
the appearance of vindicating the bill from a charge oi violating
the conftituiion, establishes a claim to violate it at pleasure.
It has been (aid that th<r representatives are to be apportioned
among the several States—that Congress is not to regard the num
ber of the whole nation ; It is not easy to fee how the hill can be
defended on any principle of diflribution among the States. The
representatives are to be apportioned according to numbers. The
number of members allotted to a State mult correspond either
with the number of persons in any other Stale, or the number 111
all the States ; compare Virginia with either of the fix States be
forementioned, or with the whole fix ; it appears that 130,000
persons in the latter will go unrepresented ; compare Viiginia
with the nation, she has two members more than her proportion.
Why then is it so zealously contended, that the apportionment is
not to be made upon the entire number of the union, but upon
the census of each State ? The bill is as naked of defence on the
one companfon as the other. Jt departs as widely from the
principles of its advocates as from those of its adversaries.
It is indeed intimated that you are to take the ratio of 30,000,
and to apply it to each State, without regarding its operation.
To juftify this interpretation, the text of the confiitution ought to
read, each State shall have as many members as the ratio of 30.000 ap-
number of per Jons wit! give it ; But that lnltrument is ve
ry differently cxpiefled,and much better ; repref ntatives and diretl
taxes are to be apportioned among the several States according to their
refpetlive numbers—will any gentleman who votes for the bill lay
that it is luch an apportionment P Will it accoid with theConfti
tuiion to take, inlicad of such an apportionment, an arbitrary ra
tio, which, instead of apportioning, disproportions riprefenta*
tives to numbers ? The ratio mentioned in the Conftitiiiion, and
in the proposed amendment to it, evidently relates to the whole
number of representatives which according to it may be had from
the whole nation, and not from the number of people in a State ;
any other fenle besides being unnatural, would difagrce with the
clause which diretfs how representatives shall be apportioned.
By the 1 alio of one to 30,000 may be known the greatest num
ber of reprelentatives which shall form this branch ot the govern
ment. Having deteimined the number it remains to apportion
the members according to the census in the refpe&ive States. No
thing is more natural cr torrefponds more pei tecliy with the con
llitution than to find firft the whole number of representatives,
and then to apportion them as ttie constitution diredts. But this
method would not suit the present emergency ; for that would
give Virginia 19 members and no more. Instead of beginning
with ihe whole number, the bill lays, let us begin at the other
end ; give Virginia her 21 firft, and, if the number should hold
out, give to all the States at that rate. It ieems on trial the num
ber will not hold out to apportion in that manner, fttl!, however,
fays the bill, give Virginia her 21.
Let theconftitution become what the bill makes it, a dead let
ter. Still however, men, and freemen, will remain, who wil
prcferve the departed 4pirit ; for before the constitution was form
ed our rights were equal; and can it be believed that compafcl
has made them less ; Men equal in rights allented to a government
which prclervcs them equal in power : 30,000 citizens reliding
where they may, must pollefs civil rights and powers equal to
30,000 in any other part ol the union; yet though a compatfc
which ought to be inviolable, has ordained that rcprefentation,
>hat is to lay, power, shall be apportioned according to numbers,
this bill coniraditbng the language of naiurt and compact, dtre&s,
that 30,000 in Virginia shall have as much power as near 60,000
in Dciawaieand levcial other States.
It would ill suit the seriousness ot my present emotions to fay
how little the luppolcd expediency ot a numerous alfembly and
many other favorue topics have to do with the debate ; Contti-
JUtional questions are so frequent they have almofl loft then pow
er to impress us. But this touches the firft organization of the
-ody politic ; it goes to ftifle liberty 111 her cradle —it establishes
the power of a part over the whole—it is a distranchifement of
some of the States. 11 the rights of Virginia were invaded, I
riift I should be equally zealous to maintain them. For the com
mon right is the common fecunty; but this bill tears the title
deed in pieces.
Having compaied the bill with the conftitution,and seen the re
fu!t of the comparison, it remains to enquire what amendment
w:ll be proper and constitutional. In this part of the enquiry, I
will not pretend to fay that I have ariivtd at equal certainty. I
h.uc no doubt that the bill is bad, but I am not equally fatisfied
of the best mode of amending it,
To determine what is right, some principle must be ascertained,
That firft pi inciple is equality ; it is another name for justice :—
Thai which is the right of the people:, therefore, is the duiy of thv
government. But as it is noi pradlicable to apportion representa
tives exa6flv among the several Hates accord ng to their numbers,
it is our duty 10 approach as nearly to that equality as may be. If
an apportionment is proposed, and it can be shewn that a more
equal one can be made, it becomes our duty so to make it. For if
we have an arbu ai y discretion to reject the mod equal apportion
ment , and to adopt a less equal, what is to rcftrain us from chufing
(he lead equal of all, that is to fay, having no apportionment at all.
If this principle is not to govern us, then we are to a& without
ony rule at all, and the constitution was made in vain. We cannot
have more representatives than one to 30,000 —but in apportioning
them, let us follow the constitution, and do it according to num
bers—and when we Hop, as we mull, (h&rt of a perfect equality,
285
fslop o
[Whole No. 280.]
it will be the conflitution that restrains us. In doing this, we
ihall aflunie no arbitrary controul over the equal and sacred rights
ot the people. We {hall have done all that we can to give them
energy. 11 has appeared on difcuflion that the rule of 30,000, pro
posed by the bill, is so iar from being the most equal,that no more
capricious and unjust difpropoitionrnent of representatives has
yet been suggested. The ratio of 33,000, tho' not free from ex
ception is less unequal, and leaves less unrepresented tractions.
The amendment (Mr. Benson's) which was proposed to the
amendment of the Senate, would increase the representatives to
119. Two objections have been made to this increase—it has been
called a representation ot fra6tions—and a number of changes were
rung upon the idea. It has also been said to be as dispropor
tionate a representation as that given by the bill.
As to the- fir ft objection, it is a mere play upon the word frac-
tions—for if the effett be as it will appear to be, to pioduce a
more equal representation, it may be retorted that the bill gives a
rcprefentation by fractions—whereas the other mode makes 119
whole paits, nearly equal to each other, and gives a member 10
each.
This brings me to the next obje&ion, and which has been stre
nuously urged against having the amendment of 119 members f
that it will be as unequal as the bill.—Then I shall think as un
favorably of it—we should not hesitate to renounce them both.
But figures will shew with certainty whether it is true that the
amend ment which proposes to add one member to (even of the
States will operate as uncquallv as the bill. To refute this I have
made a table in which are leen the effe£ls of the two plans which
are to be compared.
Mr. Ames then read the following ftitement :
RATIO OF REPRESENTATION.
The amendment proposed in the Houle to the amendment of
the Senate, will make an addition of one meinbei to each of the
following seven States.
In the third column of figures is the ratio according to which
each State will be represented in cafe the bill should pals as it flood
when it. was sent to the Senate.
I? J 1 o t . 5
< ft: n
5 5455 N.Hampshire 3,5455 218--O 28365 16.35") °
16 *9 1 9 Maffachiifctts 31919 25327 29924 291 Ig vT
8 4223 Connecticut 34223 29805 195 |
3 12766 Vermont 42766 25533 28511 g
6 5911 New-Jerf y 359*» 2 9559 29826
12 2138 N. Carolina 32138 23522 29460 540 | 3
2 25539 Delaware 5553J 2 77 6 9 22 3 l J
52 according to the amendment.
The following States to which the reje&ed amendment makes
no addition, (land thus:
i t
14 Pennfyivaiiia 30919
New-York
9 Maryland 30946
21
55
2
2
2
Virginia 30026
Kentucky 3435 2
Georgia 35421
Rhode-Ifl.md 34223
He then remarked, that if the ratio of 30,000 deserved so much
refpett as gentlemen had declared was due to it, because the
amendment of the conflituuon has adopted it, they cannot for
bear to fay that the bill in every inftancc, except four Stales, de
parts from that ratio ; whereas the plan he was comparing with
the bill has made it the common measure and applied it with less
variation than perhaps any other scheme will permit.
It appears from the foregoing ftatemeut, that the latio of thirty
thousand is applied with more equality, in put fu a nee ot the amen J
meut, than by the bill—For 50 members will be chosen by fix of
the seven States to which one member is propoled to be added,
and the ratio of 30,000 will be nearly observed.
The short numbers, in the cafe of 5 members, will be 1635 —
of three members, 1489 —of twelve, 540.
The deficiency oi numbers tor chuhtig 16, will be less than 300,
and for 14, less than 200.
The deficiency for the choice of the* two Delaware members,
will be greater —but that will be only 2231.
Add to this, 55 membets will be cholen by New-York, Penn
fyWania, Maryland and Virginia, at the rate of one to 30,000.
So that 107 members will in effect be chosen by ihe ratio of
one to 30,000.
By the bill, fomc States, efprcially the seven to which additions
are proposed, will lose numbers. In ihe plan of the amendment,
they will gain —by comparing their loss, in one cafe, with the
gain in the other, the degree of equality can be exa&ly comput-
Ed, viz.
K.
V>
-«»
$
-s;
,5 New-Hampftiire
16 MafTachufetts
8 Connecticut
3 Vermont
6 New-Jersey
12 North-Carolina
2 Delaware
Difference of numbers in favor of the
amendment',
He said that if by this plan the seven States to which a member
was added gainers, that is to fay, would be allowed mem
bers for a less number than 30,000, the gain was very little. In sac
the Slates would be reprefemed very nearly according to the f >
scale ; the bili on the contrary makes the feale, or ratio, vary
from 55,000 to 30,000.
But if tfie advantage to the seven States, or the number lef«
than 30,000 for one member is compared with the or ine
quality, luftained by the bill, it is found to be as 30,861 gain, by
adding seven members, to 178,171 loss, by th-e unreprefeiued trac
tions'—as the bill ftartds.
Tefal loft by
the Ratio.
»5 8 4
12866
85<4
546
3<"44
8704
*0842
8447
£
41820
253 2 7
26841
*5533
«355 2
25539
e S -5
B
w k o
<J 2-a h
'63.5 8175
4673
1,560
4-167
i°44
6480
4462
30851
B
§ K
s:
5455
1919
4^3
12766
59' <
138
2 5539
291
148-, -
.54°
2231
>78171.
>473'°
30851Mr. Ames made a number of remarks to elucidate the state
ments and to fiiew the unequal operation of the bill, and the
fairnefs of the other plan,
After which he proceeded to shew that the States of Kentucky,
Georgia, and Rhode-Iflaud would have the mod cause to com
plain of tra&ionsor unprefented numbers* But he laid the frac
tions of those three States amounted to the fra£tional number of
one only of the seven States to which a member would be added.
If no nearer approach could be made towards an exa&ly equal
proportion, no just objection could be urged against the plan on
the part of Rhode-Island, Georgia, or Kentucky ; tor thev would
fee the cafe could not be remedied. He then urged the equal
operation of the plan bet ween States having equal numbers, and
contrasted the bill and the amendment which had been proposed
in the House.
From aggregate loss and gain on the two modes of apportion
ment in the foregoing flatements, fee the comparison more parti
cularly between particular States, viz.
Virginia has 21 members. The loss, that is, the excess of her
numbers over 30,000, is 54"
Massachusetts has 15 )
New-Hampftiire The loss to those two slates ?
One to be added C on 19 members is 1
to each. 2 ) or nearly as 90 to 1.
Members 21
On the other hand, the gain on 21 members, or numbers short
of 30,000 for a member, is, for New-Hampshire and Mairachu
fetts only, 12848
New-York has n members—loss, or excess of ) i «
numbers over 30,000 for one member, is >
North-Carolina, 11 members—loss 2 355 2
Whereas the gain to North-Carolina by adding )
a member, will be only >
The difference between the loss and gain, or the ? 17072
balance against tbe bill, is ) ; '
Maryland has nine members—her loft numbers f Q
by the oill, ? 85 '*
Connecticut has seven members—loft numbers }
by the bill are, 26841 ( . 2 „..
Vermont has two—loft numbers by the bill are,T
2 5533 )
Difference against the bill is 43860
By adding a member to Conne&icut and Ver- £ fooi
mont, the numbers gained will be $
Balance against the bill is
The question is—will the amendment* adding one member to
Massachusetts, and one to New-Hampshire, cure the error ?—
The answer appears by tbe statement, that Virginia will be as
fully represented, according to numbers, as those two states, saving
a difference of 13389, or within two-fifths of a member. In 42
members, that fra&ional inequality is scarcely an error.
In like manner, by adding a member to North-Carolina, the
error or inequality compared with New-York, is equal to a fourth
part the number for one member—whereas, by the bill, Malla
chufetts and New-Hampshire will lose almost two members, and
Virginia will gain two ; a difference little short of four members.
Mr. Dayton said that if the vote which was a
bout to be taken, were merely to determine what
should be the ratio of representation, he should
have been contented, he said, to have remained
in his feat, and to have given a ftlent vote upon
the occasion ; but to him it appeared to involve
in it a question and a principle of infinitely high
er moment. «
Two of the members from Virginia, Mr. Day
ton observed, had candidly admitted the inequa
lities complained of in the apportionment pre
lcribed by the bill sent up to the Senate, and had
acknowledged the advantages to be given to their
llate over every other : they did not, he faid,con
tradict the calculations, nor combat the argu
ments which had been offered again ft it, but they
boldly claimed and exatfed those advantages as
a right. This being the cafe, the question was
in reality no longer, whether 30 or 33000 ihould
be the rule of apportionment, but whether the
Jegiflature of the Union were in future to frame
their a<Ss with a view to the particular and all
moft exclusive advantage of Virginia, and to bend
and accommodate their laws to the interests and
will of the people or representatives of that (late.
It was now also to be determined, Mr. Dayton
further obferveil,whether Pennlylvania was here
after destined to hold in her hands, as ihe had
been in some measure used to do, the political
balance of the states, to be the umpire in our
disputes, and the centre ofourunion.—Judging,
he laid, from the votes upon record relating to
this business, and from some other circnmftances,
she was no longer intended or qualified to hold
that important station. The ancient prophecy,
he said, seemed to be verifying among a people
for whom he had never considered it as intend
ed. The saviour of this country, the political
Shiloh, was now among us,and universally known
and acknowledged, and the sceptre was about
to depart from Judah. Tbefe, he added, were
the well known preparatives to the summons
which was soon to follow for their adembling at
the New-Jertifalem. He concluded with faying,
that not I'ennfylvania alone, but far the greateit
part of the union would have reason to repent
the determination againll: the amendment of
the Senate, and of adherence to the original bill.
He, for his own part, believed that such a deter
mination not only struck at the existence of the
state sovereignties, but reached to the very vitals
of the general government, and that it must e
■ventually produce either a general consolidation
of the union into one national mass, or an abfo-
Kits separation of its members.
Mr. Venable supposed that a Virginian was
poflefled of equal rights with other men ; if this
lie a government of compaift, he has equal rights
with other men ; but is it a reason, that because
Virginia has relinquiflied a part of her rights
•when this compact was forming, that (he fliouid
not now hold what she has not resigned ? The
dispute on the ratio ot'reprefentation does not
affedt Virginia ; for whatever ratio may be a
dopted, her representation mud always be com
plete : whether this be a confblidated or federal
government, Virginia will have her full propor
tion in every cafe except one, that is, in cafe she
should be reduced to a less number than onemem
ber ; so that, upon whatever grounds we take
it, whether fractional or condittitional, the re
sult will be nearly the fame. Calculations there
fore are out of the question, and after all thear
guinents of northern and southern intereds, of
the differences between (mall Hates and large
dates, the companion is brought to Virginia and
Delaware, and the queltion to drike off seven
members from the five large dates, and add tp
the seven final'.er ones—Thus is one-fixteonth of
the whole representation of the union to be dc
duifted unconditionally from one part, & given
away to another, which has already more than a
jud proportion in the government : for although
it is contended that we fhonld not argue from
the proportion the small states bear in the Senate,
yet I hold it fair, in speaking of a government
of representation, to take the whole into view,
and not to be governed by such partial compari
sons. Under this consideration I fay, that every
man inVirginia,as represented in the two branch
es of the legislature, is to a man in Delaware on
ly as one to eleven and one half, And in the electi
on of a President only as one to sne and an half.
This is an advantage enjoyed by individuals in
the smaller dates more than by those in the larg
er, and this advantage would be dill increafet! by
I an adoption of the amendment of the Senate :
Is it therefore just toincreafe this inequality ? Is
it fair that a man living in the neighbourhood
ofanother, with only the boundary line ofadate
between tliein, should be represented only in the
proportion of one to eleven and an half ? I contend
that the principle which comes the nearest to
hold out equal rights to every man, is the mod
proper one, and one that I will always contend
for as a citizen of the United States, and as a ci
tizen of Virginia. I shall never wish to encroach
upon the conditution, but I will be equally a
gaind dedroying the balance between the rights
which the people have delegated, and those they
have retained.
37733-
Take the fubjeft in any point of view, the five
large itates will fend, suppose 81 members, to
the House of Representatives, and 10 to the Se
nate, whilst the nine smaller ftatcs will have 31
members in this house, and 18 in the Senate ;
so that the majority of the representation in the
one is overpowered in "the other, and taking
the whole aggregate of the inhabitants of
the United States, if divided into the majority
contained in those five large states, and the mi
nority in the nine smaller ones, it appears that
the minority of the people candidate to the ma
jority in elections, &c. &c.
Government is formed by an aflociation of the
people upon principles of equality, and whilst
we admit the argument of sovereignty retained
to the states in Senate, let us not lose fight of jus
tice, right, and equity. He concluded by declar
ing himfelf of the fame opinion as formerly, iri
favor of the bill ; and as there were no reasons
oiFered by the Senate, or for them, that could in
duce him to change, consequently he could not
recede from his opinion. (To be continued.)
MONDAY, January 2.
Read third time and pafled, the bill for extend
ing the time liinitted for fettling the accounts
between the United States and individual states.
Mr. Findlcy presented the petition of William
Hailell, praying compensation as (tore keeper to
the military hoipiral of the United States ; read
and referred to the Secretary of War.
Mr. Seney presented the petition of Emanuel
Ebbs, praying payment of arrearages of pay ;
read and referred to the Secretary of War.
Mr. Ames presented the memorial of Benjamin
Lincoln, in behalf of himfelf. Cyrus Griffin, and
David Humphreys, Conimiflioners for fettling a
treaty with the Indians South Weft of the River
Ohio—praying a fettleinent of their account,and
payment of the balance due to them for their
services—read and referred to the Secretary of
War, to examine and report.
A meflage was received from ihe President of
the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, com
municating a rtateinent of the dilpofition of the
funis expended from the 10,000 dollars appropri
ated for contingent expences of government.
In committee of the whole, on the bill relative
to the election of a President, and Vice-Presi
dent, &c. Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
The 9th feftion under consideration—A moti
on had been made to strike out the Piefidentof
the Senate pro tempore,and Speaker of the Houf'e
of Representatives, &c.
The queflion being divided, the vote on the
President of the Senate pro tempore, was put and
negatived -on the Speaker of the Houf'e of Re
prefentarives was also negatived—The ioth,i ith,
12th, and 13th fedtions were difcufled and agreed
to.— The committee then rose and reported the
286
bill with the amendments to tli£ tton^e—Tin
House took the fame into confederation—the
firft amendment was not : adopted—'the feconc
aniendineii twas to insert I'igijlalun instead of au
thority, which was agreed, to.
Mr. Williamfon, in the House, renewed th(
motion to (trike out of the 9th section, "tin
Prefideni of the Senate pro tempore and the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, &c."—
This motion was divided—On the question for
(biking out President of the Senate pro tern pore,
the Yeas and Nays were as follow :
Meff'rs. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown, Findley, Fitz
fimons, Giles, Griffin, Jacobs, Lee, Macon, Madi
son, Muhlenberg, Page, Parker, Seney, Srerrit,
Sturges, Sumpter, Thatcher, Venable, Wayne,
White, Williamfon, Wyllis—24.
Mefl'rs. Ames, Barnwell, Boudinot, Benfon, S.
Bourne, B. Bourne, Clark, Gerry, Gilman,
Goodhue, Gordon, Grove, Heider, Key, Learn
ed, Livertnore, Murray, Niles, Schoonmaker, I.
Smith, J. Smith W. Smith, Sylvelter, Treadwell,
Tucker, Wadfworth, Ward—27.
On striking out " the Speaker of the House of
Representatives," the Yeas and Nays were as fol
low :
Messrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown, Finciley, Fitz
fimons, Gerry, Giles, Griffin, Jacobs, Lee, Macon,
Madison, Muhlenberg, Page, Parker, Seney, Ster
rit, Sturges, Sumpter, Treadwell, Thatcher, Ve
nable, Wayne, White, Williamfon, Wyllis—26.
Meflis. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot, S.
Bourne, B. Bourne, Clark, Goodhue, Gordon,
Grove, Heifter, Key, Kitchell, Learned, Liver
more, Murray, Niles, Schoonniaker, J. Smith, I.
Smith, W. Smith, SSylvefter, Tucker, Wad!worth,
Ward — 25.
A clause was added to the bill, on motion of
Mr. Tucker, providing for the choice of a Presi
dent of the Senate pro tempore, ill cafe of vacan
cies in the office of Prefidenc and Vice-Prefident.
The bill was then laid on the table, and the
House adjourned.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 3.
Mr. Bourne of the committee of enrolment informed the House
that they had laid before the President of the United States, for
his approbation, the bill, entitled an ast for carrying into effefta
contrast between the United States and the State of Pennsylvania.
The mefTage received yesterday from the President of the United
States, v-ith its accompanying statement were read—by which it
appears that upwards of 8000 dollars of the sum appropriated for
the contingent expences of government, remain in the Treasury,
fubjefl to the future orders of the President of the United States.
Sundiy petitions for compensations and pensions, were read and
referred to the Secretary ot War.
Mr. Lawrance presented the petition of John Stagg, principal
Clerk to the Secretary of War, praying an augmentation of his
salary ; read and referred to a feleft committee, confifling of
Melfrs. Lawrance, Giles and Learned.
A meflage was received from the President of the United States
by Mr. Secretary Lear, informing the House that he had this day
approved and ligned the ast for carrying into effect the contrail
between the United States and the Stale of Pennsylvania.
Mr. J. Smith, of the committee to whom were recommitted
the 17th and ißih fe&ions of the Poft-Office Bill, reported two
clauses in lieu of those fe&ions, which they proposed (hould be
struck out. The 17th and 18th feftions were expunged agree
able to the report, and the clauses reported, agreed to.
The 16th fettion was also struck out, and the 15th fe£hon al-
tered
Mr. Fitzfimons proposed a fe&ion making it the duty of the
post-master general to advertise for proposals to carry the mail,
either in stages or on horse-back, through the United States—this pro
portion was agreed to, after (hiking out the words in italic.
A second proportion offered by the fame gentlemen, to author
ize the stages which carry the mail, to carry passengers on the
poll roads, occafion-d considerable debate —which arose from the
circumstance of certain persons in the states ot Maryland and Vir
ginia enjoying under their (late laws, an exclusive right to iranf
port passengers thro these states. The Hotlfe adjourned with
out coming to a decision.
NEW CITY Of WASHINGTON
The following description is annexed to the plan of the
City oj IV afhingtcn, in the dijlrtft of Columbia, as
sent to Congress by the President fotue days ago.
Plan-os the City intended for the permanent feat
of the Government of the) United States, pro
je<fied agreeably to the direction of the Presi
dent of the United Slates, in pursuance of an
A(ft of Congrel's, pafled on the 16th of July,
1790, " establishing the permanent feat 011 the
banks ofthe Poto\vi«ack"--By Peter Charles
L'ENKA NT.
Observations explanatory of ths plan
I. v 8 HE positions for the different grand edi-
X sices, and for the leveral grand squares
or areas of different (hapes as they are laiddown,
were firft determined on the most advantageous
ground, commanding the most extensive prof
pedts, and the better fufceptibl'e of such improve
ments as the various interests of the several ob
jects may require.
11. Lines or avenues of diredl communication
have been devised to connect the separate and
most distant objetfts with the principals, and to
preserve through the whole a reciprocity of fight
at the fame time. Attention has been paid to
t lie palling of t hole leading avenues over the molt
favorable ground for profnedt and convenience.
111. North and south lines, interfered by o
ihers ruimingdue east and weft, make the diftri-
YEAS,
NAYS.
YEAS.
NATS.
/Jiution as the city into fqmrei, &c. and
those lines have been so combined as to meet at
certain given points with those divergent ave
luies, so as to form ontliefpaces " fn ft determin
ed," the different squares, or areas, which are
all proportional in magnitude to the number of
avenues leading to then).
BREADTH OF THE STREETS
Every grand transverse avenue, and every
principal divergent one, such as the communica
tion from the Prefldent's House to the Congress
House, &c. are l'6o feet in breadth, and tlins di
vided
10 feet for pavement on each fide is
go of gravel walk, planted with trees
on each fide,
So in the middle for carriage way,
The other streets are of the following dimen
flons, viz.
Those leading to the public buildings
or markets,
C iro
I 90
Others,
In order to execute the above plan, Mr. Elli
cott drew a true meridian line by celestial obser
vation, which pasTes through the area intended
for the Congress-House ; this line he crofled by
another due enft and weft, and which pafles
through the fame area. Tliefe lines were accu
rately meafored, and made the basis on which
the whole plan was executed. He ran all the
lines by a transit inftrnment, and determined the
acute angles by a&ual measurement, and left no
thing to the uncertainty of the compass.
REFERENCES
A. The eqneftrian figure of George Wafliing
ton, a monument voted in 1783, by the late Con
tinental Congress.
B. An liiftoric column—also intended for a
mile or itinerary column, from whole (Nation (at
a mile from the federal House) all distances and
places through the continent are to be calculat
ed.
C. A naval itinerary column, proposed to be
eredjed to celebrate the firft rife of a navy, and
to stand a ready monument to perpetuate its pro
gress and atchievments.
D. A church intended for national purposes,
fisch as public prayer, thanksgivings, funeral o
rations, &c. and afligned to the special use of no
particular fedi or denomination, btit equally o
peiv to all. It will likewise be a proper shelter
for such monuments as were voted by the late
Continental Congress, for those heroes who fell
in the cause of liberty, and for such others as
may hereafter be decreed by the voice of a grate
ful nation.
E. £. E. E. E. Five grand fountains, intended
with a constant spout of water. N. B. There
are within the limits of the city 2J good (piings
of excellent water, abundantly lupplied in the
dried: season of the year.
F. A grand cascade, formed of the water of
the sources of the Tiber.
G. G. Public walk, being a fqnare of 1200
feet, through which carriages may ascend to the
upper square of the Federal House.
H. A grand avenue 400 feet in breadth, and
about a tnile in length, bordered'with gardens
ending in a Hope from the houses on each fide :
this avenue leads to the moniimcnt A. and con
ne<fts"the Congress garden with the
I. President's park and the
K. Well improved field, being a part of the
walk from the President's house of about 1800
feet in breadth, nnd three fourths of a mile in
length. Every lot deep coloured red, with green
plots, designates -some of the situations which
command the most agreeable profpe>Jls,and which
are bed calculated tor spacious houses and gar
dens, fnch as may accommodate ioreign minis
ters, &c.
L. Around this square and along the
M. Avenue from the two bridges to the fede
ral house the pavements on each fide will pass
under an arched way, under whose cover (hops
will be nioft conveniently and agreeably iituated :
this street is i6o feet in breadth and a mile long.
The fifteen squares coloured yellow, are pro
posed to be divided among the several flutes in
the Union, for each of them to improve, or sub
scribe a sum additional to the value of the land
for that purpose, and the improvements round
the squares to be completed in a limited time.
The centre of each square will admit of flatties,
columns, obelisks, or any other ornaments, such
aa the different dates may choose to ere<st, to per
petuate not memory of such individuals
whose councils or military atchievments were
conspicuous in giving liberty and independence
to this country ; but those whose ufefulnefs hath
rendered them worthy ef imitation ; to invite
the youth of fucceeclirtg genera;ions to tread in
the paths of those sages or heroes whom their
country have thought proper to celebrate.
Ihe flttiation of those squares is such, that
they are iJie nioft advantageously and reciprocal
ly seen from each other, and as equally dittribut-
Ed over the whole city diftridl, and connected by
spacious avenues round the grand federal im
provements, and as contiguous to them, and at
the fame time as equally distant from each other
as circum(lances would admit. The settlements
round tliefe squares mult fuon become connect
ed.
The mode of taking pofTeffion of, and improv
ing the whole difbritft at firft, mull leave to pof
teiity a grand idea of the patriotic interefl which
promoted it.
The fill all ("paces coloured red, are intended for
the use of all religious denominations, on which
they are to eretft places of worship, and are pro
posed to be allotted to them in the manner as
tliofe coloured yellow are to the different llates
in the Union ; but no burying ground will be
admitted within the limits of the city, an appro,
priation being intended for that purpose with
out.
L'tet.
no
60
S?o
i6o
N. B. There are a number of squares or areas,
unappropriated, and in situations proper for Col
leges and Academies, of which every society,
whose objetft is national, may be accommodated.
ijo
Every house within the city will Hand square
on the streets, and every lot on the divergent a
vennes will run square with their fronts on the
most acute angle, will not tneafure less than 56
feet, and may well be above 140.
Some of the streets running north and south,
and east and weft, are about 1200 poles, and the
transverse streets about 1300 poles.
Latitud-e of Congress House,
long. o. o.
X. Tiber creek. The water of this creek is
intended to be conveyed on the high ground
where the Congress-House Hands, and after -va
tering that part of the city, its overplus will fall
from under the base of the edifice, and in a cas
cade of 20 feet in heighth, and 50 in breadth, in
to the reservoir below, thence to run in three
falls through the gardens into the grand canal.
The perpendicular heighth of theground where
the Congress house dands, is above the tide of
Tiber creek 78 feet. '
Perpendicular heighth of the weft branch above
the tide of Tiber creek, 115 feet, 7 inches and
two eighths.
This branch and that of the Tiber, is intended
to be conveyed to the President's house.
From the entrance of the river Potowmack up
to the second, the depth of water is from 5 1-5
to 4 fathoms—the deeped all along the shore
where wharves are marked.
Philadelphia, January 4.
Last Saturday afternoon Lieut. Devin, of the
Levies, arrived in town from the Western Coun
try. He left Fort-Washington the 22d of Novem
ber, at which lime Foris Hamilton and JefFerfon
were well supplied with men and provihons, and
there was no apprehension for their (afety. Ge»
neral St. Clair continued in bad health. Moll: of
tfee remaining Levies were returning home, ex
cept such as had enlisted in the regular service.
The wounded had been, brought to Fort Wash
ington, and were moll of tliem in a fair way of
recovery. No account of the Indians since the
action
Lieut. Devin met General Scot, vvirh a party of
militia, within go miles of Fort Wafliington, on
the 23d of November.
The President of the United States has appoint
ed, by and with the advice and consent of the Se
nate, Lemuel Reddick, to be fiirveyor of the port
of SufFolk, in the state of Virginia, vice Benja
min Bartlett, resigned.
Mr. Peter Zacharie, of Baltimore, hasinvented
a Machine, patenteed by Congress, by which a
single man, by walking in a hollow wheel, will
raif'e a fpoonful, containing a ton of mud, whilst
another spoon, by the fame operation, goes down
to take in a like quantity.—He has alio invented
an easy method of discharging mud from a fcovv,
on a wharf or other place, hy means of a small
addition to the common conftrucftion of that spe
cies of veflel, and by which a single man will
empty it in one minute.
A number of gentlemen in New-York have
fubferibed for a portrait of Alexander Hamilton,
Esq. Secretary of the Treasury of the United
States. This portrait is to be executed by Mr.
Trumbull, and placed in oneof the public build
ings df that city.
The lofsof the brave officers and men who have
fallen in the Western Expedition, is deeply felt
as a public one—bur as private—and to those who
were connectfed with them by the ties of friend
fliip and confanguiniry—the fliaft pierces deep.
" Tread lightly o'er thetr ajhes, ye men of honor,
for they were your BRETHRER —weep o'f'r their fate
ye men oj friendship and sensibility, jur they
•were your brothers." \Qolumb. Cent.']
Peter Zachnry Lloyd, Esq. having resigned his
office of Clerk to t lie Houfo of Repi efentatives of
this State, Peter Baynton, Esq. was on Saturday
lali unaniinor.fly eleifted in his room.
287
38- 53
On F rlclaj- morning wns presented to the pre
sident of the United States, a Box, ele«antlv
mounted with silver, and mark of the celebrated
Oak Tree that fheltefcd tile V/afbtiigton of Scot
land, thtf brave and patriotic Sir William Wal
lace * after his defeat at the battle of Kail;irk
in i he beginning of the fourteenth century, by
Edward the H*. I his magnificent a'ltd truly cha
ratfiei iflical present is from rhe E.iYt of flucian
by the hands of Mr. At chibald Rot-crtfbu, a Scots
gentleman, and portrait painter, who arrived in
America fame months ago. The lu,x was pre
fentecl to Lord Buchan by the Goldsmiths' cornp-,.
Ny at Edinburgh ; from whom his lord/hip lc
quefted, and obtained leave 10 m.ike it over to
a man whom he deemed more defervin? of it
than hi in (elf, and the only man in the world to
whom he thought it jultly due. We hear fii• -
ther, that lord Btichan has, by letter, requeued
of the President, that, on i he event ol hisdeceaffe
he will consign the box to that mdrt, in ila ,
try. who f.iall appear, in his judgment, to merit
it belt upon the fame considerations that induced
him to fend it to the present pollellbr.
The inscription upon a silver plate, on the in
side of the lid, is as follows: Prefcnted by the
Coldfnithf of Edinburgh, to David Stuart Erjkine,
Earl of Buchan, with the freedom of their corpora
tion, by their deacon—A. D. 1782.
* Sir William Wallace, at firfl a private gentleman, vvfuccefifuUy at
tempted a revolution in Scotland, nearly on th( Jame grounds with that
mote recently accomplished in America, to cupel the EngUfll and their ad
herents, who had ujhrped the government. Having/ameda vi&oryover
the Jorces of Edwa-id the frjl, at Stirling, he icas [/on after attacked bv
Edward at the head of 80,000 foot and 7.000 horse ; whereas the whole
force of Sir William did not exceed 30,000 foot; and the main division
of this army was tampered with by a traitor, and rendered of no uje to
the patriotic party. Net long after the battle of Falkirk, Sir H'iliiaa
was made prijonei byfome of Edward's partizans, earned to England,
and beheaded. ' [Nat. JQ«.J
Another year hns now opened upon ns—the
contemplative mind, reviewing the pad, is natu
rally led to reflet 1 ! on the future—the scene has
been checquered, but our country has not been
checked in its career of prosperity—every annual
period since the adoption of the New Conltini
tion, has found the United State 9 in a more eli
gible fuuauon than the lad .—Providence, Nature
and Time, unite their influence in accelerating
our progress to apoint of civil freedom and glory,
hitherto unattained by the efforts of man. But
while our bofonis glow with the fire of patrior
ilin, and a lively gratitude to the Author of all
good, the rear of regret should (iow at the recol
lection of the untimely fate of those bra'se citi
zens who, by the hands of ruthless savages, havff
fallen in the wilderness.
" There, as the toe pour'd in the deadly fire,
" In glory's arms our haple'fs Chiefs expire !"
The fonrces of the public revenue are' not yet
exhanfled—A tax upon the instrumental. part of
the calling of fine ladies and gentlemen would
yield a considerable fun)—Meflage cards, in par
ticular, may be deemed the tools of the trade,
and as such, it niay.be urged, that they (hould ba
tax free—But reasons of state ought to prevail
over any narrow objetfiions. As the friendlhips
contrntfted by the interchange of message cards
are rather cold, being formed out'of doors be
tween persons who become intimate acquaint
ances without feeing each other's faces, u little
public spirit would rather cheer than discourage
those 011 whom the duty would fall.
A correspondent, fpeakingofa late publication,
entitled, " The Young Gentleman & Lady's -dffij}'
ant," fays, that few books are more proper to bff
put into the bands of young people—it contains
a great quantity of matter, in a finall compass,
and treats of a variety of ufeful branches of Edu
cation, with judgment and accuracy—so that it
may, with fome,degree of propriety, be faijl to
constitute a final! English library for youth; its
merits will doubtless introduce it to the general
notice of teachers and others.
At a stated meeting of the Pennsylvania Society for promoting,
the Abolitron of Slavery, &c. held on Monday evening last, -the
following Members were ele&ed Officers for the ensuing year :
President. —James Pemberton, Esq.
Vicc-Prefidents.— Rev. Dr. William Rogers,
jlev. Dr. Nicholas Collin.
Treojurer.—Mr. James Starr.
Secretaries.—MelFrs. John M'Crea, Joseph P. Norris.
Couvfellors. — Miers Fisher, William Lewis, William Rawle, John
D. Coxe, John Todd, jun. and Joseph Thomas, Efq'rs.
CorrefpondingCommitteg.— fames Pemberton, Esq. Rev. Dr. William
Rogers, Dr. Samuel P. Griffitts, Dr, CafparWiftar,"Mr. Caleb
Lownes, John Kaiehn, F'n M<. Tofeph Saniom.
NEWsPrtftio.
THAT universal information
Should circulate thro'out the nation,
And knowledge be as free as air,
Our S3ges all as one declare—
But in the bill they've fram'd, behold
This knowledge made as dear as gold ! —
The elefliou oi Diicctois. io Hk isank ot ihe United States, wats
not closed when this paper went to press.
PRICA CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.>.
FUNDED' DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 23/4 pr. £
3 pr. Cents 14J
Defered 6 pr. Gents 14/2
UNFUNDED DEBT,
Final Sett 1. and othei Certificates 20/6 do.
Indents
Bank Subfci iptions.
i i6f pr. cent.
70 do.
71 do.
J3/ „ 6 5
178 . Dollars,PROM A LONDON PAPER
Thejollowing extraElsJrcm a Poem, which we underjland is to make its
appearance theJirfl parliament fejfion, mayJkow Jome of our nobility,
that if they are determined to be ridiculous through wantonnejs oj
wealthy their Jollies will not escape the cenjure of genius.
what is family? fee C funk
Beneath contempt, and delicately drunk :
Not drunk like manhoood in his generous mood,
When bright'ning humour o'er the quicken'd blood
Springs into life, and honcftly declares
The glowing sentiments his bosom bears;
But drunk with show, ridiculously vain,
And pleas'd with all things that the wife disdain.
In muslin trowfers tied with silken firings,
Shoes with rosettes, and fingers deck'd with rings;
With glitt'ring chains that from the waistcoat (liow,
How much the man is buried in the beau !
The mighty Lord of
And mimics woman even in her fears :
Of frame so delicate, that on his breast
The ribband's pinn'd, tp give the nosegay reft
The flow'r, alas! too heavily might lie,
And load the murmur of a gentle sigh ;
So vast a burthen on a heart so foft,
Would furc be fatal, if his lordfliip cough'd.
In this all-fruitful commutative age,
When even ministers pursue the rage,
And honest toil is bountiiully given-—
If dearly bought —the circling air of heav'n,
Is there no mode, since manhood must perplex,
To suit his nature by the change of sex ?
Or, must the thing indefinite remain,
A modern Abetard, without his pain !
Fie ! fie ! my lord ! give back the painted fa»,
Aflert your freedom, and aflume the man :
Show, by the deeds humanity reveres,
That kings at least have honorable heirs :
Snatch, from the lips of propagating fame,
A tale, whose whisper's everlasting (hame.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
[Conclusion of a speculation began in theift pa s e of our last paper.]
SHOULD we have reason to regret our relapse
into errors, which we have heretofore deter
mined with ourselves to correct, and hoped to
subdue—let us carefully examine whether we
have not chosen a wrong method to effedi such
refolutions—ihe passions of men, as well as their
reason, are the gift of nature, and intended to
make complete the moral character of man : it
is our natural access to vice, which enhances the
charms of virtue ; and " he that conquers hiin
felf is the greatest of conquerors"—and in no si
tuation do we derive equal fatisfatfion to our
ielves, or appear with greater advantage to those
around us, as after a fair competition with our
passions, vre can boast the ascendancy of reason
but our failure in acquiring this supremacy, is
oftener to be attributed to a want of ikill in con
ducing the conflict, than from real depravity—
as when under the conviction of error we feel
an ingenious wish of amendment ; we are apt to
forget the strength and intimate connexion of
our natural propensities, still confirmed by habit,
and by too sudden an attack on anyone of them'
we give the alarm to the reft and rouse the whole
phalanx of our passions to resistance, which are
found too strong for the feeble barrier of reason
and collefling power from success, impose a hea
vier bondage whereas, if we would endeavor
their gradual and adroit fubjugarion, calling in
occasionally by reflexion the pieafure we deriv
ed from one conquest to our aid in the pursuit of
another—we should soon find reason smiling in
the feat of empire, and by her rays be led to the
region of truth. MENTOR
LONDON, Oiftober 10.
Tlie decrees of the National Aflembly are al
ready very voluminous, consisting of thirteen
ottavo volumes, in a small character ! a vast
compilation !
HPHE annual elcftion of Officers of the American Ph,.
X losoph ic al Society, will be held at their Hall between
the hours of 2 and 5 , r. m. on Friday the 6th of lanuary
rcxr. ' J
December -31
American Lead Manufa&ory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co.
HAVE jufl now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
font h of Walnut-It reel Wharf, adjoining their New Factory
where they have now made, and ready for fair, 3 neneral adort
ment oISHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD the
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they wa.rant it to be
equal i» quality to any manufafturcd ill Europe, and at a reduced
pice from the colt of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrefled to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and execnted on the
shortest notice.
N. B. Wanted, indubious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of convcyance being provided, and
house* for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Meflrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their Fattory in Richmond, or as above.
Phi(ade/phia y December 3, 1791
appears,
JONATHAN WILLIAMS, Sec'ry
Bank of the United States.
December 22, 1791.
RESOLVED, That the Di(counts in future be made upon
Tuesday and Friday, and that the Notes or Bills offered for
Dilcount, be presented al the Bank on Monday and Thurfdav.
(41) JOHN KF.AN, Cajhicr.
Bank of the United States.
December 3, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Bank of the United States
will be opened on Monday the sth inltant.
Transfers of the fubferiptions to the stock of said Bank may
then be made.
On Monday the 12th instant, deposits will be received, and on
Tuesday the 20th instant, discounts maybe made.
By order of the Prefidentmnd Directors*
JOHN KEAN, Cajhier.
All Bills or Notes efFered for Discount (hall be delivered into
the B-tnk on Mondays 01 Wednesdays, the Discount shall be fet
tled on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and shall be made known the
next succeeding days.
At a MEETING of the DIREC TORS of the
BANK of the UNITED STATES,
Dechmbxr 5, 1791.
RESOLVED,
THAT ihc payment of the portion of the Capital Stock of the
Bank of the United States, consisting of Specie which will be
due on the several Shares on the firft Monday of January next,
may be made at the refpcttive Banks of Majfachufetts and New-York.
Provided, That any Stockholder claiming the benefit of such
payment, shall, on or before the firft Monday in January next,
exhibit to the Cashier of the Bank of the United States, a Certifi
cate signed by the Cashier of the Bank into which such payment
(hall have been made—anything in the regulations' heretofore
eftablilhed to the contrary notwithstanding
By order of the President and Directors,
JOHN KEAN, Ca/kier.
Bank of the United States.
Phi lade l phi a, November 22,1791.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United States
are herebv informed, that accotding to the statute of incor
poration, a general election for twenty-five Di recto r s will be
held at the Bank of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the second day of January next, at t£n o'clock in the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh feftion of the Bye-Laws, the
Stockholders of the said Bank are hereby notified to assemble in
general meeting, at the fame place, on Tuesday the third day of
January next, at five o'clock ih the evening.
By order of the President and Dire&ors,
JOHN KEAN, Oijhier.
Second fundamental Article of Statute of Incorporation.
" Not more than three-fourths of the Dire&ors in office, exclu
sive of the President, (hall be eligible for the next succeeding year.
But the Director who (hall be President at the time of an eleflioii,
mav alwavs be re-elected." ("po'fj
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&rc
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market Streets
A few TICKETS in 3d and last Class of the
NEW-JERSEY LOTTERY.
TO BE SOLD,
Oil the Waters of Tye River, a Branch of James River, in
the County of Amherfl, and State of Virginia,
About 7,000 acres of rich Land,
Well adapted to produce every kind of grain and grass a farmer
can wifti to cultivate, distant from navigation twenty miles.——
For terms apply to JAMES ROSE, reHding on the Land.
Amherft County, Virginia, Dec. I®, 1791. (^t)
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear.Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be seen every day, until Jive o'clock, ?. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xeuophon, Plato, Plutarch, Etifebius, Sozo-
I A men, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
culus, Pliny, Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceronis. Biblia Junii and Tremellii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapula:— Phavoriui—Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, Vollii Etymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Sritannieae, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropjedia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Phaedrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Csefar, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voffii Ars Gram, ciuve
rii Geographia, Justinian Code, &c.
Octavo et injra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes, Longinus,
Thcophraftus, Hefiod, Poetce minores Gr. Ifocrates, Phalans, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claitdian, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan,
Salluft, Curtius, Flotus, Juftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius, Hilt.
August. Scriptores, English and French Translations of some of the
Claflics, a great variety of Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. &c.
G3" Catalogues may be had of MefTrs. Rice & Co. Booksellers,
Market-llreet, or of JOHN CAREY.
Oaober 31. (eptf.)
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SF.LLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every <\e£cv\\->t\nn,onCommijpon,
at the following ratts:
ON the specie amount of all sales at auflion, one eighth pej
cent. d K
On ditto at private falc or purchase, one-kalj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interefl at the Loan-Office, one prr cent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers at ditto, Jcvcntr-Jive cents transfer.
(yjT Such persons as may incline to tavor the fubferiber with
their orders may relv on their being executed with punffua/ily,
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and extenlive dealings
in the public (Wks, together with a well eftablirtied correlpon
dence throughout the United States, enable hipi to conduit his
"perations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
Ntw-Ymk, No. 57, King-Street.
Oftobcr 15, 1731
288
At No. 263, South Front-Street,
This flight, John Macph erson will LcSureon MECHANICS,
and begin precisely at Eight o'Clock.
Tickets arc fold by Mr. Pou/fon, at the Library ; Mr. Pclcft, at
the Merchant's Coffcehoufe; and by said Macpherjim, at one hail'
a doMar each.
George Meade
Has for SALE, at his Stores on Walnut-Street Wharf,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bills of exchange Madeira
WINE, which he will dispose of by the pipe, hogshead or
quarter cask.
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of the Rrft quality, by the hogflicad of
quarter cask.
Three and 4 vears old Lisbon WINE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter cask, or larger
quantity.
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or larger
quantity.
A few quarter cbefts of firft quality Hyson TEA.
He has just received by the Pigou, Loxley, matter, from London,
a few quarter calks of old Madeira WINE—And
By the brig Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few boxes
of Irish LINENS, low priced and well aflorted ; a few bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and fomc GLUE.
A few boxes of Spcrmaceti CA NDLES of the firft quality, and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
He has also to dispose of, a quantitv of dre/Ted White Oak
STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of First Quality Madeira
and Lisbon WINES, and whoever is pleased to favor him with
their custom, may be assured of being well served.
He will, through the Winte» and Spring, buy undrefTed HAND
SPIKES. He is purchasing FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, and
will give the highest price for them.
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER and
Taunton ALE, just received, and lo be difpoled of.
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, od COMMISSION by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,''
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97,
TO BE SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant situation on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the fub
fenber now resides; about 25 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvements, which area /leat and commodious two story house,
compleatly finifhed from the cellar 10 the garret, a kitchen, launl
dry, meat-house, dairy, two story barn, and ice house, al 1 finifhed
in the best manner, together with fcveral 01 her necefTarv outhouses.
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a fidllful gardner now em
ployed inputtiag it in fine order; the land well enclosed with a
post and rail fence; a well, and springs of excellent water the
profpeft is equalled by few, and excelled by none in America
its contiguity to Alexandria, the Federal town, and George.
Town, having a fine < nd full view of each place, mud render it in
a few years of great value, being direftlfrina line of communica
tion from Alexandria to the other two towns. Should a purchaser
offer befoie the 15th of February next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indilputablr title, clear of i<ll incumbrances, will be made
bv the fubferiber. I will also fell with this place, 220 Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 miles difiant, which will suit well to (up
port the above in wood and timber.
December 14, 1791
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, fometimeiu August 1789, i yellow NEGRO
MAN, named Abraham, laic the property of Kathtnid
Wickhff, deceased—about forty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inches high, pretty well set, with a large woolly head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his teetand ancles—by trade a bricklayer, stone mason and
plaflerer. He is a very handy fellow as a house-waiter, and it fond
of such business. He is a great diflembler, and no doubt pretends
he is a freeman. He has been eloped Co long that no description of
hu prefeut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.—
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any person that will fe
curefaid Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will be paid—or Thirtv Dollars
will be given if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. John Kinchelor. bv
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
f raw 9 w )
O&oher 12, 1791
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worcester, Massachusetts, mod refpefl
fully informs the public, that he has this dav completed the
Old and New Testaments of his Royal Quarto Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, &c. will be finith
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Paters, he begs will
return them to him at Worcejler, or to him and Company at Boflen,
by the last day of November next, and as much sooner as they con
veniently can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highest approbation; both as to the execution of the;
printing, its correftnefs, and its cheapnels compared with Englilh
copies of the fame size and quality.
As this verv laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking
is carried 011 solely at his own cost, he is led to hope that all those
who wish to polTefs a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudable undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the fubfeription.
29, 1791
TO PE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABI.E for receiving and paving Gold at the Bank of the
United States, (hewing the Value of Gold in Dollars and
Cents, fr»m One to a Thousand Pennyweights—according to the
Ast of Congrels, ascertaining the Standatd and Value of Gold.
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY lite arrivals from France, the Editor has received from
No. 10/031, both mchfve, of a Publication which cones out twue a
week tn Par;, entitled. " Cor respond anc f. Nat ion a l e."__
from No 1 to No. 10, have been flipped, but are not yet come to 'hand
Any per/on who may incline to fubjenbe for this work, which appears to
be ingenwn, impartial and patriotic, mar be furmjked with the number <
as they arrive by applying to the Editor of tins Gazette.
(yT Mavh Powersto receive wintered, and for the transfer ol tie
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eflablifhed in the Trea
sury Departmen t: Also Blanks for abJlraEts of Certificates, tobefoldhy
SC7 3 The price of this Paper is 3 Dollars per ann,
One half to be f aid at Subferibhig.
(ep 6w.)
BALDWIN DADE
ISAIAH THOMAS.