A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 29, of Vol. IV.]
Certificates Loft.
MISSING, Five New-JferJey Certificates, ligned
by Silas Condiviz.
No. 740 for £. 75 o o
1978 11 12 9
715 100
3482
The fubferiber iuppofes the above Certificates
are stolen. Whoever will discover the Thief, or
Certificates, and leave information at the Treasury
or Loan-Office in New-]erfev. or in the County
Colle&or's Office at Morris-Town, (hall be hand
somely rewarded by
Manis-Town,
New- Jersey, July 12, 1792.
BOOKS,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
M A T H E W CAREY,
No. itß, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
i. A MERICANMUSEUM,fiom itscommence-
XjL ment in January 1787, to June 1792, in
vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered,
.^f vpnleen dollars and three filths.
' This work, which is now conduced on an im
proved plan, containing the bed pieces publiflied
for and against the proceeding# of government,
will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and miscellaneous essays,
as any ever published in America, Perhaps in no
one work are lo many valuable documents refpeft
ing the history of this country, colle&ed together.
His Excellency tHe President of the United States,
has declared of it, that 44 a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement."
The fubfeription is two dollars and a half per
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wish to
be supplied with this work, are requeued to give
cornmifiion to friends in the city to fubferibe for
and receive if Any of the back numbers
may be had in order to complete sets.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on Nurf
ing and the management of Children.
" We recommend these letters to the perusal o
those to whom they are particularly addressed."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. tot — Price, bound.
€2 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—so c?nts.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss
More's EfTays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone on command ot" Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6f6.
7. Smith's History of New-York,
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. profeffor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : 41 We
have seen nothing on these fubje&s more plain
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."—• —
N. B. It is introduced into the University in Phi
ladelphia. £
9. Beauties of Poetry
dollar,
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
11. Necker's Treatlfe on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bihs of a dollar.
13. The Conllitutions of the several United States,
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dpllar.
14. M'Fingal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths o!
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
•17 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—Price, elegantly bound and lettei
ed, 50/2— plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecunt—Price a
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Chr iflian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged—
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
of a dollar.
23. Selett Poems, chiefly American- —Pricc a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment of
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will difpole of on the most reasonable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being fupplicd in
the most fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchafc quantities ior public libraries,
or to fell aa^in.
Wm. cleland,
BOSTON,
Tranfafts btffinefs in the Funds of the United
States;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, Brc.
Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
*ny other part of the Union, will be attended to
witk Diligence and Punctuality.
_Junt i
WANTED—TO RENT,
From the last of O&ober next,
<nr A convenient House. in or near the centre oj
thi City—Enquire of the Eaitgr.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE of the UNION
Concerning the Foreign Debts of the United Slates.
AT the commencement of the present go
vernment, in 1789, the United States
were indebted to France, Holland, and Spain,
and to the foreign officers ol the late army, in a
sum amounting to near twelve millions ot dol
lars. Near a million and two-thirds of this sum
was due for arrears of interest, inattention to
which, would have been too difgraceful to have
admitted of a hope ot public credit, until inea
-1 fures were taken for its discharge. Above a
million and one-third of the principal sum had
become due, and the time ot other installments
was coming round. The resources of the coun
try had been examined and considered, but not:
tried. The claims of thefc foreign creditors,
were,originally,the most delicate in themselves;
and in the cafe of France, the ft&te ol her revo
lution in the summer of i79-> placed her de
mand in a situation peculiarly interesting. It
was perceived that the adoption of the Federal
Constitution and the measures taken to restore
public credit, had made strong and favorable
impreflions on the European money-lenders :
and it was not doubted, that the arrears of in
terest and the principal due, might be discharg
ed by loans, upon terms which would produce
very little loss. The requisite authorities were
given by the Legislature, which resulted in the
borrowing of a sum equal to the discharge of all
the exigible debts. But as the occasions of the
French were likely to be emergent, and there
was reason to confide, that a firm and steady
pursuit of the financial system, which had by
that time been adopted, and an adherence to
the upright spirit of the Constitution, would ra
pidly meliorate the credit of the United States,
it was deemed expedient to extend the autho
rities to borrow, to a sum equal to the whole of
the foreign debt, provided the installments not
due could be discharged by means of loans ad
vantageous to the United States. The interest
of above seven millions of the foreign debt, be
ing at the rate of five per cent. per annum, it
was not doubted that the money might be ob
tained so as to render the discharge of the part,
not exigible, really advantageous. It has ac
cordingly happened, that a sum adequate to the
principal and interest due, has been borrowed
' within the terms of the law, so as to support
the credit and good faith of the United States,
1 and critically to accommodate the people of
France. The further expe<stations of Congress
have also been fulfilled ; a considerable loan at
four and one-half, and two loans at four per
cent, having been effected, so as to realize an
advantage in the discharge of a large part of
the principal, which was at an interest of five
per cent. The United States having thus com
: muted their foreign debt, further than is due,
: with honor, and, on a medium of the whole,
, with advantage, are relieved by these operati
ons from any possibility of preflure to perform
the remainder of their European engagements.
The friends of our public credit, of our national
1 fafety and refpe&ability, and of the revolution
of France, among the citizens of the United
States, will reflect upon this actual course of
' events with cordial fatisfaftion.
I The condufion : being mifcellaneowi thoughts on the
government.
The people of the United States enjoy a pe
culiar felicity in the ppifeffion of principles of
government and of civil and religious liberty,
more found, more accurately defined, and more
extensively reduced to practice, than any pre
ceding republicans. There is not one iota of
delegating or delegated power, which is not
poiTelfed, or may not be acquired by every citi
zen. It is true, that there are in practice, se
veral deviations in the distribution of powers
to the various sub-divisions of the country, and
to the proprietors of cei taindefcriptions of pro
perty ; but these are acknowledged departures
from principle, and are known to have risen out
of the antecedent state of things. They could
not be immediately corre&ed without violent
struggles and disorders, and without injury to
the property of descriptions of citizen*, too
great for the country at any former period to
, compensate. Mild remedies are,however, dai
ly applied to these partial diseases; and it is
manifeft, that the course of time is diminishing,
and will finally remove them. The right of le
gislative interposition, on the part of the chief
magistrate, which, in the practice of another
country, has been commuted for an unlawful
and injurious influence, is here wrought into
the essence of the constitution, and is not only
exercised in the independent and uncontrouled
consideration of every resolution and bill, but
by the practical application of the negative.
The execution of the office of the chief ma
gistrate has been attended through a term of
almost four Jyears with a circumstance, which
to this nation and to the surrounding world re
quires no commentary—a native citizen of the
United States, elevated from private life to
that station, has not, during so long a term, ap
pointed a single relation to any office of honor
or emolument.
The senatorial branch of the government has
been created and continued in a mode prefera-
I ble to that which i-. purfucd in any other nation.
1 4 6
° 12 9
JOSEPH LEWIS.
(lawyw)
Piice a dol
Price four-fi/ths of a
(epim & xaruiin)
Saturday, September 8, 1792.
FROM TIIE AMERICAN MUSEUM,
113
Tne representative branch of the govern
ment is equally well constituted.
The military code for the government of
such troops as are occaiionally raised and em
ployed, is well calculated to produce discipline
and efficiency, when time is allowed for the I
purpose, and consequently to render the United
States refpeftable in the eyes of foreign nations.
All christian churches are so truly upon an e
qual footing, as well in practice as in theory,
that there are and have been in the legiilative,
executive, and judicial branches ot the general
government, persons of the following denomi
nations :—epifcopalians, pve{byteriaii, indepen
dent or congregational, quaker, Lutheran, re
formed Roman, and probably others, which do
not occur. There have been, and indeed yet
are, a few ecclesiastical distinctions in the state
governments, which reason and time are rapid
ly destroying. It is easy to 'perceive that reli
gious liberty supported by the National Conlli
tution, and a great majority of the ftatc con
stitutions, cannot but attain, in a very fliort
time, the fame theoretical and practical perfec
tion in the remainder, which it has acquired in
them.
(To be concluded in our next.)
FOR THE GAZETTE OF TIIE UN IT E D STATES
REPRESENTATIVES in CONGRESS.
IN a despotic government the slaves and tools o
power affctt to treat the people with contempt
for though a sovereign without fubje&s, impliei
an abfurditv—and the multitude of the people
rcallv constitutes the glory of a Prince, yet so in.
confident and besotted have the tyrants of the
earth beeru, that the people by whom they reign
and from whom they derive all their support, arc
too often considered in no better a light thar
beasts of burden: hence their obedience to the
laws is a blind spontaneous fubmiflion, withoui
sentiment, and consequently never to be depended
on.—ln a free government the cafe is far other
wise; a wife and virtuous people, in refpe&ing
their rulers, honor their o*n chara&er—and the
magistrates, while executing the laws, confidei
themselves as agents of the people and organs of
the public will.—The name of citizen is the high
est political appellation—and the approbation of
the virtuous majority, the highest reward of an
honest ambition. There are various currents in
the tide of human affairs, ro precipitate nations to
ruin. History and experience afford abundant
teflimony to prove, that free States as well as in
dividuals, have been carried down the smooth
dream of flattery to thegulph of slavery and des
potism : we need only refer to that notable in
stance, Julius Csfar ; if the Roman people had
been invulnerable to the flattery, adulation and
largefles of that nfurprr, they would not have fallen
;he vi£Hms of his artifices, the Haves of absolute
luthority. The duties of governors and of the
governed, are reciprocal ; when all impreflions of
efpeft fiom one to the other are obliterated—on
he one hand government becomes contemptible,
ind is inevitably considered as tyrannical—on the
)ther, the people become supine and invite mif
ule and oppreflion ; fa&ions fuccccd, and thefc
)verturning the free government, open the door
o anarchy, confufion and dcfpotifni.
There is a public magnanimity of character
vhich ?1 ways accompanies a superior ftatc of civil
ibertv; the loss of this ma'gnanimity generally
>recedes the loss of freedom. This noble fenti
nent should inform, enlighten and animate the
reat public will ; it is this alone which can
nake a people superior to the adulation of those
»afe minds, who flatter, to deceive and betray—
nd at the fame time equal to sustaining the ele&ri
ying power of truth. For it may fafely be af
erted, that truth and freedom are so intimately
Hied, that whenever the former is found to offend,
he latter very Toon takes its departure.
In fele£ling their civil rulers, a wife people will
iot be deluded by the syren song of unprincipled
latterers ; of all attainments, a proficiency in the
rts of adulation is the easiest of acquisition ; at
he present day the world abounds with models
,n which perfonsof themoft slender abilities may
orm their chara&ers ; and it is too much to be
amented that those who never had honesty enouon
o piopofe an unpalatable truth to the public con
ideration, are considered as patriots. How dif
erently mankind condutt in matters of religious
oncern, from those of a political nature ! The
>opular preacher is he who draws the mod dr
eading picture of our species ; —in politics some
nodern patriots apply a certain do&rine to the
><rO/>/e, which republicans justly reprobate as ap
>licd by the people of England to their chief ma
[iftrate, viz. That the King can do no wrong;
his is daubing wi<h untempered mortar, uniefs it
an be demonftratcd that the popuhr opinion,
lowever variable, is always right. We have fern
n our country a variety of changes in the fenti
nenls of the people—amidst them all, truth has
lever fhifted fides ; and the inflexible patriot
a, ho makes her d £tates his fupteme monitor, will
icver be found enrolled under the banners ot
farfy.
" Uubrib'd, unazu'd, he dares impart,
" The hovejl didates of his heart —
14 No party fmile'iy or frowns he Jears,
44 ?77 An virtue perjeveres
Such are the charo£lers to whom the public at
tention ought to he drawn — persons of this dc
fcription will make the public good their objc& ;
their prescriptions and advice may be sometimes
unpalatable, but their judgment will save the body
politic—the laws and the liberties of their coun.
UUso
[Whole No. 551.]
.—When the people are folicitou* to eltft only
those •« who prop.heiy Smooth things, 1 ' theirtiu®
glory may be fa id to be oh the eve ofits departure;
but so long as they can bear the discipline which
truth and freedom pre Scribe, their happineSs will
be secure.
It is Sometimes fafbionable to Speak favorably
of public credit ; to extol the virtues of temper
ance ; to Support the cause of the mechanic and
manufacturer, &c> Then again, it is discovered
that public credit is a bubble, that public debts
aie public curSes, and ought to be annihilated —
that taxes on ardent spirits are oppreflive—and
that a land tax, which never can be laid, ought to
be substituted ; or in other words, that no pro
vision should be made for the public debt ; that
prote&ing duties ought not to be laid—that the
manufa&ures of our country ought to be left to
fhift for them Selves, See. &c. On these topics,
the candidates for the Suffrages of the people hav#
often given their opinions ; and while those who
appear to have formed competent and confident
ideas, and have uniformly Supported their fyflems,
ought to meet with the approbation of the people :
those who have whiffled and veered to every dif
ferent point, that appeared to suit their personal
■ntereft and the company thev were in, should be
marked with neglefl bv every f»ee eleftnr. This
advice is freely given ; for it will found on ex
amination, that the real friends of the constitution
of the United States are those, who have uniform
ly Supported the united and inSeparable interests
of the farmer, the manufa&urer, the mechanic,
and the merchant. C.
No. VI.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
Mr. Fenno*
IJ yourfelf and your brother Printers through the Con
tinent, who have published certain flriflvres on the
conduSl of Mr. Jefferfon, which appeared in your
Gazettes of the \th and 11 th of lafl month, under
the [tgnature of" An American," will now
publfk the it will evidence your impar
tiality and regard to jujlice,
Philadelphia, September 4, 1792
Mr. Fenno,
IN your Gazettes of the 4th and nth of last
month, there appeared two publications un
der the signature of " An American," replete
with the most virulent abuse of Mr. Jefferfon }
and containing charge 1 ; against him, founded in
the basest calumny and falfhood. The intem
perance of this writer, and his utter difreg&nf
of truth and candor, will be readily perceived
by an impartial public, when they refer to one
of his concluding suggestions in the firft publi
cation, to wit—that Mr. Jefferfon is the patron
and promoter of national di/uviun, national infig
nificanct, public difordcr and discredit ;-*-a fuggeP
tion, made on no better foundation, than
being oppsfed to some of the principles of the'
funding system, of the national bank, and of
certain other measures of the Secretary of the
Treafurv ; an offence, which, I fear, if crimi
nal, will involve a great majority of the inde
pendent yeomanry of our country in equal
Tuilt. How long Mr. Jefferfon has been diftin
riufhed as the Cataline of the day, or as the
imbitious incendiary, who Would light a torch
:o the ruin of his country, may be matter of
lfeful speculation; and whether he is now, for
:he firft time, thus distinguished, because of the
nanly freedom with which he declares his ab
lorrence of some of the leading principles of
Vlr. Hamilton's fifcal administration ; or, that
iccaufe of his known attachment to republic
:anifm, he is feared, as the decided opponent ot
riftocracy, monarchy, hereditary fuceeffion, a
itled order of nobility, and all the other mock-*
ia<*eantry of kingly government, will be the
übjedt of future enquiry; in which it will be
:onfidered, how far the distinguishing traits I
lave glanced at, form the appropriate and pro
ninent features in the character of another po
itical luminary, and of the measures of his ad
niniftration. An enquiry like this may be use-
Ul, has been invited by the writer I' refer to,
ind, as the invitation will not be refufed, may,
n the test of comparative merit, disclose fa&s
ind principles in relation to public men, which,
lowever important for the public to know,
low concealed in the arcana of a certain con
"ention, or remain involved in all the obfeurity
if political mystery and deception. At present
nv sole purpose is, by a reference to certain
'aft',, of which I have been pofTeffed by a gen*
leman in this city, to exonerate Mr. Jefferfon
"rom the two principal charges made -against
lim, and, in so doing, to prove the malignity
ind falfhood of them.—The firft charge is,
• that Mr. Jefferfon was opposed to the present
:onftitution of the United States"—and the
ither is, " that Mr. Jefferfon, when Minister
:o the Court of France, advised Congress to
icgociate a transfer of its debt due to thtt>
"Tench nation to the hands of individuals in 1
Holland, upon the idea, that if the United States
hould fail in making a provision for the debt,
he discontents, to be expected from the omif
ion, may honesty be transferred from a govern
nent able to vindicate its rights, to the breasts
if individuals, who may firft be encouraged to
lecome the substitutes to the original creditors,
ARISTIDES.„d may afterwards be defrauded without dan-
CI"
In re!', tto she f.rft charge, and any ratio
or candid inference to be derived from it,
j. ~,-..'. co , d not ...van that Mr. Jeiferlon was
frier. .1 - to, '•id' re mended the adoption ot
t u e (•„ - ■ , lt ;. a ; and vet, Inch is the plain and
fi m p!c i'.i r. v. kh writer for bis own mli
i\ to.rua ; into an inference,
that M l ' wr. opp,.':d to the constitu
tion, ar.d is yet an eneivy to that, and to the
American Union.
Let tho'b w! o re, ' d the truth, recur to the
Dibates of the Virginia Convention, pages 100
an d i oi—where, in the fpee'ch of Mi. Pcndle
ton, the President of thatConventipn, they wil.
find the following fentiinents :
" I was surprised when I hea'd introduced
the opinion of a gentleman (Mr. jefferfon) whom
1 highly refpeft. I know the great abilities of
that gentleman. Providence has, for Me good
of mankind, accompanied thole abilities with a
di'pofition to make u<i of them for the good ot
his fellow beings; and I wilh, with all n.v heart,
that he was here to assist us on this intereftmg
occasion. As to his letter, imprefled, as I am,
with the force of his authority, X think it v is
improper to introduce it 0.1 t is occasion. The
opinion of a private individual, however en
lightened, ought not to influence our decision.
But admitting, that this opinion ought to be
conclusive with us, it strikes me in a different
manner from the honorable gentleman. I have
seen the letter, in which this gentleman has
written his opinion upon this fubjeft. It ap
pe ir ;'that he is pofleled of that Constitution,
and has in his mind the idea of amending it.—
He has in his mind the \ ery question of ttbfe
nu-nt or previous amendments, which is row
und?- consideration. His fentiinents 011 this
fubjet are as follow : —" I wilh with all my
foul, that the nine firft Conventions may accept
the Xew Constitution, because it will secure to
us the good it contains, which I think real and
important. I wilh the four latest, whichever
they be, may refule to accede to it, till amend
nieuts are secured." He then enumerates the
amendment', which he wilhes to be fecuieil,and
add —'• we inuft take care, however, that nei
ther this, nor any other objection so the form,
produce a schism in our Union. That would
be an incurable evil; because friends falling
out, neve • cordially re unite."—Are the r e fen
tiinents in favor of those who wilh to prevent
it" adoption by previous amendment? He wilhes
the firft; nine States to adoot it. What are his
reasons ? Because it wil! r ecure to us the good
it contains, which, he thinks,great and important;
and he wilhes the other four mav refufe it, be
cause he thinks it will tend to obtain necelfory
amendments. But he would not wilh that a
schism Ihould take place in the Union, on avx
conjrdoation. If then we are tcbe influenced by
his opinion at all, we will ratify it, and secure
thereby the good it contains."
The public will observe, that this part of
Mr. Pendleton's speech was made in reply to
another member of that Convention, who then
made the fame attempt to pervert Mr. Jeffer
fon's sentiments, which the present writer has
now done—and that the unexpected quotation
of Mr. Jefferfon's letter, with the jnft and judi
cious comment upon it, made by Mr. Pendle
ton, arretted the influence of the poison, in that
instance, as I trust it will now do, to the fatis
feftion of an enlightened and impartial public,
to whom, without farther animadversion, it is
submitted.
In re'peft to tlie other charge of the advice
given by Mr. Jefferfon to the former Congress
concerning the French debt, it is worthy re
mark, that the accufcr skulks from the charge,
when, in a note subjoined to his publication, Ire
favs—" The precise terms are not now recol
lected, but the fubltance maybe depended upon;
the poor Hollanders were to be the victims."—
Thus (tabbing the reputation of an old merito
rious publu servant, by an unwarrantable con
clusion, whillt he disavows a recollection of the
farts, on which lone tV conclusion could be
jnftified. B.'t the pitiful evasion will not avail
him; he has produced a falemn charge at the
tribunal of the public—a charge, which, involv
ing no fiuall de :rrr of moral turpitude, will
render the accused, if guilty, unworthy the con
fidence off his fellow citizens. It is his duty,
therefore, to substantiate his charge, not b\
vague and unfounded inference, but by an ap
peal to truth, a reference to plain and simple
facts, and a recital of the preci'e terms of the
advice given by Mr. Jeffe son; without a
Knowledge of which, the public cannot be ena
bled to render a just or impartial judgment —
If he fails in this, the public will regard him as
a ba e and wicked calumniator. I have no
hop;, howeve', that he will ever attempt to
bring forward the proofs of this charge—fatis
fied with the time, manner and efleft of his ca
lumny, he will now retreat behind an anonymous
filature, and vent his flanders at the reputa
tion of anv other honest man he meets, like a
coward; affaflin, who strikes ia the dark, and
securely v.ounds, because he is unseen.—l fav,
he will retreat, because he well knows, notwith
standing anv affected ignorance on the fubjeft,
that bv an appeal to facts, the truth will appear
that Mr. Jefferfon gave advice to Congress ex
prefslv contrary to that which he has ascribed
to him.—That this was the cafe, and that Mr.
Jefferfon even pointed out a mode by which the
honor and credit of t ie United States might be
p e'erved, can and will be proved to the public,
if the pre ont accuser (hall dare to bring for
ward the proof in support of his charge.
It ha; be?n faifl, Mr. Fenno, that a certain
heid of a department is the real author o«- in
itiator of this utiprovokecjand unmanly attack
on Mr. Jefiferfo —and that the time of that
gentle departure from this city, on a visit
to his home, was considered as best foited to
answer the tlefign it was intended to efteft
Be that as it may, or whether the writer be of
this or that state, or of th's or that partv, cer
tain it is, that no *nan can envy the depravity
ef heart he po.rclTes.
Philadelphia, Sept. 4, 1792
Foreign Affairs.
VIENNA, June 23.
THE King of Prnilia will command
the army deftincd again It the
French, in person, and the reigning
Duke of Krunlwick will command
under him.
BRUSSELS, July 6.
It appears, from the accounts which
have been published by this govern
ment,, that early in the morning of
the 30th nit. the French troops, it at i -
oned at Courtray, retreated from
thence to Menin, where Monsieur
Luckner had fixed his head quarters,
and that the whole French aimy, al
ter this junction, fell back to Lille,
where they arrived ihe fame night,
I having entirely evacuated theAuitri
an Low Countries.
The Duke of Brunfwick arrived at
Coblentz the 3d inlt. and the firft co
lumn of the Prussian army reached
that place the fame day.
BRUXELLES, July ir
The interview between ihe Empe
ror and the King of Pruflia, is fixed
to take place on the 21 It inft.
A Counsellor of the Paris Parlia
ment has received an order ;o repair
no 111 hence to Manheim, .where the
Dukes and Peers of all the Parliaments
of the French kingdom are l'ummon
ed. The meeting is fixed for the 18th
inft.
OSTEND,, July 19
Yesterday we received an account
of a battle between the French and
Auftrians, in which the latter were
vi&oiious. It is said, 1200 French
were killed, and 600 taken.—ln con
feqoence of this defeat, the town of
Orchies is in pofleilion of the AulVri
ans, with a great quantity of It 01 es of
all kinds. On Monday the Austrian
army was reinforced by 28,000 men,
lately arrived from Germany.
M. Valid,uiune has this moment
arrived from Lisle—he was a f'pecta
tor of the battle : it was between
Lisle and Orchies. The body of
French were 5000, who were going
from Lille to Alsace : they were at
tacked by 16 or 1700 Auftrians, who
rather had the worll of it at fir ft ;
but in the end made terrible havock,
and drove the enemy into Lifle.whei e
they were very badly received by the
people.
W A R S A W, June 20.
Some days ago, the account of the
Ruffians entering Wiloa, was made
public here.
Two battles have taken place, the
one on the ioth of June, where we
101 170 men, and the second 011 the
nth, which did not last long. We
were obliged to retreat, which we
effected in the bed order. Hoili bat
tles were fought near Mire and Swer
zen.
The King will go this week to Ko
ziniice, and from thence 10 the camp
at Lubar, in otdei to adt in conjunc
tion with General Poniatowfki.
M. Bulgakow, Ruffian anibaflador,
has not yet left this place.
M. Ignace Potocki, grand Marshal
of the grand Dukedom of Lithuania,
arrived here from Berliu ; the an
fwer he brought from that court is laid
to be unfavorable 10 our republic.
Camp, near Zanjlaw, June 19.
Fighting and marching for ihele
five days pait, have left us no time to
give regular accounts of our motion
and fit uation.
On the 14th inft. having perceived
a column of Ruffian troops on the
right of our camp at Lubar, and ano
ther on the left, crofling the river
bluez, our General, Prince J. Ponia
towfki, ordered Gen. Kofciulzko,with
four battalions of infantry, one bri
gade of national cavalry, and one
pulk of light hoi fe, to march towards
Czartorija ; whillt General Urelhorf
ki, with Ihe brigade of Mukzonow iki,
went along the river Sluez, to recon'
noitre the enemy towards Oftropol.
The Prince hiinfelf soon followed
with the sth regiment of Luboniirlki
He found Gen. Urelhotfki already
engaged with four battalions of chal
(ems, two battalions of light horse
and a pulk of Coflacks. Seeing our
cavalry pre lied by superior numbers
rhe Prince fell on the left flank of 1 he
enemy, which put them into confuii-
ARISTIDES.
114
Oil, and they retreated towards Uri
niopol, where the vanguard of Gen.
Kochowfki was eficamped, composed
of* two battalions of grenadiers, two,
chito of challffurs, two pulks of light
horse, one piilk of cnrafiiers, and one
'ditto of collitcks. After having re
connoitred ilie Hifiny, the Prince,
returning towards Lobar, gave or
ders to It) ike t lie camp, and the whole
.u my began the liiari h at tour 111 the
morning, leaving Gen. Urelboifki vo
bring uptherear. The rear was con
tinually liarraHed by 4000 Ruffians,'
lill coiningto Corufzkowee, our march
was interrupted by a fatal accident.
I he wooden bridge gave way 1111
der the weight ot the cavalry. ihe
enemy in the mean time brought up
[heir main force, and their cannon
began to play 011 the mill-dam which
we had to pals. Two battalions, un-
Col. Grochowiki and Capr. Bronikow
ski, were thus left expol'ed to a furi
ous attack, after a 1110 ft gallant relilt
ance, having loft 200 infantry, and a
bout 50 cavalry—the remainder re
treated through the water, having
firft funk their cannon. We loft in
this action x major and 8 officers kill
ed, and 2 milling.
The main army finding the fortifi
cations at Volonna untenable, on the
1 7th inft. marched lowards Zielime,
where, being reinforced by some
troops fromZanflaw, it halted to give
battle to the enemy. They footi ap
peared, confilting of about 8000 ca
valry, 9000 infantry, and 24 pieces
of cannon. The action began with
1 he greatest fury, and continued from
7 o'clock in the morning till five in
the afternoon, when the enemy was
obliged to retreat, leaving 11s the field
of battle, whereon having rested for
two hours,our army inarched toZanl
law, near which it is now encamped.
We cannot yet ascertain our loss—
it appears to be about 800 infantry,
and 300 borfe ; and that of the ene
my about 4000. The Ruffian forces,
when joined, under Gen. Kocholki,
we hear, will be three times more nu
merous than ours, to which we have
only our courage and patiioiifm to
oppose.
LISLE, July 3
The army is eftablilhing itfelf at
Fama and at Maulde—nothing re
markable si.ice the affair of Couitray
— Mr. Dumourier is arrived at Valen
ciennes.
July 7. The progress of the Belgic
patriots seems at a Hand ; the pre
parations for the equipment of a
number who are still unclothed, are
deferred, and they are in 2 Hate of
general dejection.
Immediately after the evacuation
of Courtray and Menin, the Aulhi
ans penetrated into all their former
stations, though it was night, and o
vertook a party of about fifty of the
Belgic legion, who had not timely no
tice of the French retreat, being up
on guard at an out post. They fell
into the hands of the enemy, and next
day ten were hung on the public mar
ket place. The reft have probably
by this time experienced a similar
fate.
It is not yet known whether any
part of Marlhal Lucklier's army will
relume the pofiiion near this city,
but notice has been given to the pea
fa in s not to till the ground formerly
occupied.
Deserters from the Auftrians are
constantly coming in ; ami our pa
troles, sent out to scour the country
at night, commonly return with pri
foners.
PARIS, July J.
if any thing can save us from im
mediate civil war, it is the variety of
parties, which is so great, that among
twenty persons, we scarce find two
ot the fame disposition ; and confc
quently no one party can judge where
to fix a point of union. The number
ot leifis in politics seem to be as great
as that which pievails in religion,
and every fetft is equally enthusiastic,
violent, and intolerant.
1 liat a Itorni iuu(t m the end break
over us is certain ; but it is impoffiUle
to judge when it will happen ; for
at present all the kingdom is invelo
ped ina fog that the eye cannot pe
netrate ; and all our politicians :ut
continually j jftling again!* each o
;ther in the obscurity, without being
lable to difiinguilli fiiend from let.
The light receive from enr j .
nous Artembly, lerveit>„ t «o f£t
ouHdarknelsmorevfitle, as £*£
tfract of their Journals will st ew
July 12. The country ig at leiiwk
declared formally , 0 be i„ da„,S
l f he nil Of Whom it 4, b ;
found by the aflembly report,, h,J
rehgned, avowed ti.emfe|V es total !
unequal tothe t«fkofrrt,deri»-, h g
country any lervite.
General Ja?ry, who is ft, mucl| „
fulyeA of conversation, a„d who i!
to be tried by a Court Martial forrfU
burmiigofCon.tray.i, not a
O(licer, as fiated to the Afibmbly but
a (Jalcogne Whether Mr
meant to ievenge bimfelf U p O J J
paity, or upon the Brabancons f or
the cool reception he had originally
received, is not known- but certain
it is, that the burning of the fubmbs
ofCourtray, containing warehotil'es
and bleach (tores, from the different
manufactories, so much etteemedall
over Europe, was one of the molt
wanton and cruel pieces of military
authority ever pratftifed, and which
perhaps will put a close, by an excm
plary punishment, to this gentleman's
career, and v/ipe the (tain it h,,
thrown upon the French chara^er.
1 he forces of the emigrants sire
stated to amount to 6,j00 horse, and
20,000 foot.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLYf^
J ULY 4'
This clay produced nothing rery
rem a i kable—The King announced
the nomination ot Mr. Dejoly totht
place of Miniiter of Justice.
M. Terrier demanded some fucconrj
for tliofe French families who have
been obliged to quit Spain, for refil
ling to take the oath prescribed by
government— Referred to the differ
ent Committees. <
M. Amelot announced tire burning
of seven mjllioiiSof Affignats, making
in the whole 561 millions dellroyed.
July 5.
M. Palloy communicated to the As
sembly the piojedt of a public fefti
val to be celebrated for the 14th July
on the ruins of the Baftile.
The order of" the day called the at<
teiuioi) of the Atfembly, to the mea
sures necell'ary to be taken for the
general (kfety
M. Forne fs-.id, That lie ascribed
ill the evenis-which had lately oc
:uri ed, to a project of degrading the
Legi'lature, in order imperceptibly
o cftecft its speedy diflolution. He
juoted, as proofs, the Veto opposed
by.the King; his proclamation to the
dilbanded guard ; the choice of Mi
niiiers ; the persecution excited a
gainlt the friends of their country j
the conduit of government ; the de
nunciation of the sums of money dis
tributed by the civil lilt ; the misfor
tunes of St. Domingo ;»the dieadtul
calamities of Aries and Avignon ;
the necessitous Hate in which the ar
mies have long been placed, the cir
cumltaucei which have compelled
Luckuer to (top in his march, and
retreat backwards; the conduct of
the itaic Mayor of Paris, the petition
of M. La Fayette, his jourfiey to Pa
ris, &c. This General, confirmed he,
quits his army, in order to make war
againlt the Patriotic Societies ; he
blames every armed aflemblage, a»,n
presents a petition in the name ot
Jo,ooo mulkets ; Polterity, gratefu
for all thele exploits, will not,
out doubt, fail to bellow 011 bin) t e
name of La Fayette, the Jcobin, as
Scipio in Rome was ftiledthe A n
canus. He then disclosed a p an >
which he affirmed was in
to abandon France to invasion, 1
membei merit, and profcripnon.- ""
" You are all of you hall Enitg an
(said he) you are falfely
you are parties in this plot ; you p
nuance with your mouth, the on
tution or Death, and in your e '
the death of the people by tn«
ftitution." , . i, nt
These words occafioried a vio
tumult. M. Lacuee wilhed tofp '
but could not be heard. „i 11( l,d
The bifliop of Bo urges concl"
bj proposing to decree,
the country is n: dangei, f nll h
That the Alietnbly Call
o.ifuk l<> law but that of ihe 7
' i 'l'e p .>ple. lij's
ily applauded. U
ided to be primed. „ n the
M. Partoret and •.tnob'aitrtr
coiitiary demanded mi't ICfxecrateii, and the author lint to the
Abbaye,
,\!:er in nch tumnlt the " Aflerably
>ali'ed to the order of the day.
Tlie Minitter of J nftice demanded
to be heard, and piefented the sol-
lowing
letter from the king
" Gentlemen,
" We approach the famous epoch
when the French throughout all the
Empire are again to celebrate the
anniversary of liberty. The law pro
hibits every particular federation ;
it only permits the renewal of the
civic oath in every diltriCt. But we
have a measure to adopt which, with
out being attended wiih any violaii
on of law, appears to me extremely
neceflary in the present critical situ
ation of affairs. It is particularly at
the moment when a great nation car-l
ries on a foreign war, and when thw
factious excite internal diilemions
that peaceable citizens Hand in need
of being confirmed.
" I am of opinion, that we ough'
to give the signal of the re-union ot
the conll iiuted powers—a great num
ber of Frenchmen ademble and re
pair to the frontiers—they desire to
(wear at the altar of the country, to
live free or to die. — I inform you ot
iny desire, to go in the midftof them
to receive their oaths, and to prove
to the factious, that we have only
one spirit — that of the conftiturion.
(Signed) " LOUIS.
(Counter-Signed) " DeJOLY."
July 7.
In the session of the 7th the pre-|
ficlent informed the AlTembly, that
the order of the day was allotted to
the difcufiion of the nieafures to be
taken for the general fafety. M- Bvif
fot was to open the business. M. La
mourette, however, arose and inform
ed the Aflembly, that he had a mo
rion which he willied to make previ
ously, That all thoi'e members who
both abjured and execrated a repub
lican form of government, or ove con
j:[tin? of two hor/fes, fh'juld rife. The
whole Aflembiy immediately arose,
and solemnly declared, they never
would fuffer, either by tlie introduc
tion of the republican system, or by
the eftablilhment of two honfes,
any alteration whatever in the cou
ftitiuion. A geneval cry of union
followed diretftly. The members who
fat 011 1 his fide formerly deiiosgjfclnted
the left, went and mixed with the
members on the onpofue fide, who
received them with open arms, and
in their turn went and placed thern
felves on the benches on the left
fide ; in fadt all parties mingled to
gether.
Scarcely had t'uey clone this, when the ap
proach of the King was announced. He was
received with loud and reiterated applauses.
He was accompanied by his ministers, and plac
ed himielf without ceremony beside the presi
dent.
THE KING'S SPEECH.
" Gentlemen,
" No fpectade can be more aftec c iing to nv
han the general re-union of opinion and fen ti
ne nt which has now taken place. This re-un»
on I have long defircd, at lait mv wish is fulfil
ed, the nation and the King form only one
Tlie constitution will now become that point of
union, around which all Frenchman will afieji!-
ble in order to protect it, and the King will al
ways set them the example."
THE PRESIDENT'S REPLY.
" Sire,
u This memorable epoch miift inspire wit!
;he greatest pleasure all the friends of liberty.
It is a dreadful epoch for its enemies, hence
forth the nation is invincible. In vain tyrants
conspire against liberty."
Both tbefe speeches were received with the
loudest applause.
The King made Tome efforts to answer, hut
was so much aflfe<sted that he could only fay, in
a tone which indicated the utmost emotion,
44 The pleasure which I feel is delicious." He
then retired, accompanied by a deputation, and
the fitting rose, amidst the acclamations of Vive
la Nation ! Vive la Liberty ! Vive le Iloi !
July 12.
A deputation of the active citizens ofVer
failles appeared at the bar to denounce what the
termed, " the insolence of that little di&ator
JLa Fayette,who had abandoned the French
army a prey to the enemy, in order to cone to
dictate laws to the legidative body.
A petition \vreceived from the citizens ci
Roye, ftatinn;, t!iat tiiey considered the execu
tive power as the head of all those who wifhcd
a counter-revolution, and as the princip 1 ' aufe
of the present infuificieney of the laws; •i d pro
poling to remove from the King t'w r!(oi
putting his veto upon decrees of •<
This otcrtiioned a violent tumuli
m:i", wliowas in'the chair, interrupted the -e
ti. ~; ,— 2 quitted the c lair and darted t > ti..
tr lr ->— e was refused permifTion to fpor k-*-
t . '-izens of Roye were heard out, and the:
• .dtion referred to the ComiTii/lion ot Twelve
An address from the Community of Mar
seilles demanding the abrogation of the law
which declarer, the crown hereditary in the fa
mily of Bourbon, occasioned a violent clamour.
On a call .of the Hotile.—Prefent 663 mem
bers. Sick 16—3 engaged in business-—6 dead
and not replaced—27 did not answer. Broke
up at 11 o'clock.
While the affair of Petion was di'cuffing in
the AfTembfv, the mob raised an outcry agatnft
M. de !a Co'ombe, aid de camp of M. la Fay
ette, who happened to be in the neighborhood,
and probably would have made fotne attempt
on his pcrfon, had not the deputies extricated
him from his danger, by causing him to be ar
retted and put into cttftody.
Sunday, July 15.
M. Lafourcc d uianded a particular report
on the conduit of La Fayel te.
M. Bazire observed, that the project of M.
Laniontey was a mana uvre to save that dic
tator.
M. Merlin wished an anathema to be pro
nounced arainft the whole army of the centre!
thev had sworn to follow their Genei*
Wherever he ihauld ciioofe to lead them. w
LONDON, July 9.
Letters received over land yefterdav from
Bombay, via Suez, state, that the Confederate
'owcrs had fett'ed their refpeclive lhares of the
rhree Crore and thirty Lacks, paid by Tippoo,
as follows :
The N i /,am, 4-16 ths
Pefhwa, 5-16 ths
F.aft-India Company, 7- 16ths
The. lik-ewife confirm'the report refpecling
Gen. Meadows, who, as soon as the ton ei
Tippoo reached the camp, lodged three balls in
his body, two of which have been extracted. —
The General has determined to quit India, and
is now 1110 ft probably 011 his paflage to Europe.
LIVERPOOL, July 16.
A new invention of making a cable by means
of a piece of machinery, i uft crecti d iuPoti
inouth yard ; the continuation of which is very
curious, has been submitted to the Board of
Admiralty.—By means of this engine, which is
put in motion by lixteen horses, twenty men,
whollv unfltilled in rope-works, will be enabled
to make t cable of dimeniions for the largest
Oiip, iuiefs time than two hundred men can
make one according to the usual methods.
Wherever Manufactures and Commerce feat
themfeh t~, their influence upon landed pro
perty (to a confideralile diltance) is felt in an
inconceivable degree; and how much it mufl
be for t':)e interest of the land owners to cher : (h
them, tlie following fail clearly demonstrates :
Less t! an twenty years fmce, the annual rent
of an ((fomewhat above 200 acres) f'tuate
at the village of Appleby, near Mealham, in
the county of Derby, was under one hundred
pounds; and after reserving so much of this
land iss now lets for eighty pounds per annum,
the remainder was last week fold by auction by
Mr. boost, and produced upwards of thirteen
thouf.nd pounds ! —As Inch advantages have
arisen in the neighbourhood of Meafham, from
e::c.' '* of tv/o or three individuals, what may
not the proprietors of land in the vicinities of
Tamwortb and Burton expect ? at both of
which places manufactures, upon a very grand
scale, have recently been eilabliflied by the fame
gentlemen.
Philadelphia, Sept. 8.
ABSTRACT of EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
By the English papers it appears that on the
19th and 20th June, ail iminenfe body of the
people of Paris went to the Tiiuilleries, and
demanded of the King that he should fan ft ion
the two decrees of the National Assembly ; one
for the expulsion of the nonjuring and refrac
orv clergy.; the other for forming a camp of
twenty thousand men in the environs of Paris.
The mob on the 20th June was supposed to con
f;ft of 100,000 persons—they committed great
! excesses, and at length broke into the King'
apartment. In the confufion a bayonet was
aimed at the King, but the stroke was parried
by the. interference of one of the National
Guards. The King, by address and great pre
sence of mind, evaded a compliance with the
demand—and by subsequent accounts, it feenv;
that thole decrees have not received his appro
bation.—The tranfa&ions of the 20th of June,
cau'ed a considerable ferment in the army 011
the frontiers, particularly that division under
the command of M. dela Fayette. A petition
t.o the National Aifembly was the coniequence,
praying for an abolition of all the Club^—this
was carried to Paris by M. de la Fayette, and
P'efented to the AfTembly. Violent debates
took place on the occasion, in which the most
i'evere and pointed ftri&ures were made on the
cond 116 VofM. La Fayette. He was compared
to Julius Csefar, Oliver Cromwell, &c. and
charged with dilating laws to the country at
the head of an army. The result of the debate
was a spirited decree, declaring that military
officers, commanders, &rc. should not petition
the Legislature on any fubjett except those im
mediately relating to the army. The Jacobins
appear to have been greatly exasperated at the
condutt of M. de la Fayette—an attempt was
made to burn him in effigy, which was prevented
by the interposition of the National Guards. A
motion was made in the AlTeinbly to fend M. de
!a Fayette to Orleans as a prisoner—this how
ever did not obtain—and without effecting his
he left Paris and rejoined the army.
A letter i- publilhed, fa id to be from the Kin.e
of" Pnil'ia to the King of Poland—in which he
fa. — u Whatever be the frienclfl 1 ■ that X 1-ave
; worn'to you - Mzjefty, and t ; H- inrsreit that I
t.ike in every thing that concerns you, you will
your re if believe that the state of tlu.igs i.oHg en
tirely chained f nee tl'.e alliance t': it I c< ntraft
d with the Republic, and t >c pre < > i tic
ture biought 011 by tlx Confutation oft " Id of,
i. Du
JI"LY 14.
115
r*T;;v, 1691, posterior to my treaty, not being
| applicable to the engagements therein flipulated,
it does not belong to me to refill the attack made 1
jon your IVlajefty, if the intentions of the patrio
tic party, a.c Hill the fame, and- if they perlift 11 ;
the desire of maintaining tlieir own work ; bur;
if, retracing their steps, they fhalll consider the!
difficulties that are up on all fides, 1 flial 1
f>e ready to concert measures with iier Majeity
the Emp.r fs of ftuflia, and to explain myfelf at
the fame time, with the Court of Vienna, to
strive to reconcile the different interests, and
to agree on measures capable of restoring to
Poland its tranquility." The EngliJli of all this
is y that J Poland will bow the neik, dejputjm will re
place the yoke which they have thrown off.
Official accounts of the fuccel's of the Britifli
arms in India, had arrived in England—receiv
ed over land via Constantinople.
Jljnke Ferdinand of Erunfwick died at Brunf
the 3d of July, of an apoplexy.
mM'he National Affembjy having declared by a
i fclic ast that the nation is in danger—an ad-
ifs to the people, and another to the army,
Jras been published by their order; in which they
'all upon both, by every confederation that can
move freemen to such exertions, as may diiap
point their enemies and preserve the Constitu
tion.—A letter from the King to the Alfembly,
on the ioth July, informed them that all the Mi
nisters in their resignations. M. De
mourier, late Minister of War, had gone 10 Va
lenciennes. —Great difolders took place in the
galleries on the evening of the ioth. The mob
hiflTed, hooted and even menaced the Alfembly.
Voices were heard calling out, u Get you gone,
get you gone—your labors are not worth your
eighteen francs a day«"—The Piefident order
ed the guard to restore order in the galleries—
which, after forne difficulty, was effected.—-The
Ministers, in the account which they gave in of
the state of the kingdom, fay, that the frontiers
would soon be attacked by about 200, 000 men,
to which France had about 248,000 to oppose—
that the King of Sardinia might be reckoned*
among her foes —and that fbe had not a single
ally, except America, from whom nothing could
be expected, but supplies for her Colonics.
The grand federative meeting took place in
the Champs de Mars on the 14th July, and the
clay pal Ted without any disagreeable occurrence
whatever—the procerfions of the citizens, the
military, &c. were splendid—The King and
lloyal Family attended on the eccafior.—when
he renewed the oath to support the Constitution.
The Englifli papers further fay, that the pro
vince of Holland, and the city of Amsterdam,
had agreed to join Austria and Pruflla against
France—and it was expected that the reil of the
provinces would do the fame.—Meaiurcs are
pursuing to have M. I'Abbe Mauryelertcd Bishop
of Liege Adivifion of Poland between Austria,
Ruflia & Prussia, & the King, is talked of—who i:
tobeprefented with the smallest part. —The King
of Hungarv has ordered prayers to be put up in His
dominionsfor fuccefsagainft tLeFrench. —Great
insubordination had prevailed in the French ar
mies, to which may be attributed the partial
'needles gained over them by the Auftrians j
but since the French Generals have got their
troops into better order, they have £hewn them
selves. in fcveral instances more than a match
for their enemies.—The command of M. Je la
Fayette's division of the army, devolved on M.
d'Hangeft, during the journey of the former to
Paris.
M. Petliion, the Mayor, has publilhed obser
vations on the events of the 2oth June. He
attributes all to mere accident. The Mayor,
it appears had been suspended—but a decree of
the National Aflembly had restored him to the
exercise of his fun&ions.—An Englifli paper
fays, M. de la Fayette's army may yet save the
French nation from deftru&ion—not by oppos
ing the Auftrians, nor by fighting the Pruflians,
but by marching to Paris, and in conjunction
with the National Guards, restoring the Crown
to its dignity, and the people to their lenses.—
The Erg lifh Royal ijis appear anxious Jor a second Gen.
Monk to Jhew himjelj in France.
A writer in the Pittsburgh Gazette of last Satur
day, speaking of the Excise Law, lays—" I con
gratulate the Western Counties, of which I am an
inhabitant, that the opposition to the law is on thr
decreafe —last year it appeared as a committee
chosen by a number of people in the different
Counties, and came forward with some kind of
powers ; this year it was not even the ghost of a
committee, only a few persons assembled, notwiih
ftanding a public invitation was given, end thofc
but from two Counties; they endeavored to be
come refpedable by attempting to drag in bye
danders, but in vain ; they were abashed (their
only merit!) and adjourned to a more obiciirr
place, where they might foment divisions, and form
tickets at their leisure "
No Indian intelligence by the last post from
Pitifbugh.
The anniversary Commencement of Dart
mouth College, N. H. was held the 22cl August;
when, after a miscellaneous Literary exhibition
by the Students, the Degree of Bachelor of Arts
was conferred on 27 young gentlemen.
Last Wednesday arrived here from Hull, the
ship Clothier, Captain Strong, with whom came
the following paflengers :
Messrs. Charles Smith,CharlesStovin, George
B'agden, John Lanthrall, Richard Jones, George
lOgden, William Green, William Littlewood,
| John Armftrdfcg, John Hanlon.
Exlrafl of a letterfrom C*pe-Vra.ncoii y dated Aug. 18.
u The beginning,of this week a dispute arose
between a white man and a mulatto, about a
negro girl, when the former killed the latter.
The town was immediately alarmed—five
whites were ioftantlv killed and three wounded,
and one mulatto. Thus the affair ended ; but
as long as a mulatto remains in the island, so
longwiQ these disturbances be: for the lower claf
of whites are very much ex:\fperated agtfinfi
them on account of their liberr . —The negrcc-,
almost every night let fire to tie young canes,
and do as they pJeafe—-being in quiet pfclieilrori
of all the country around the Cape."
Lad Monday arrived the Hoop Sally, Capt.
Ridgeway, t'rom Cape-Francois.
Letters by this veflel dated the JBth August
mention, that they had accounts from Aux-
Caye.t, that it was destroyed by fire, that the
negroes had beat the white people in an engage
ment, killed about 300 of them, and took their
Cannon : —The fsme letters mention that dis
turbances had begun in the Cape between the
mulattoes and whites, that there were several
lives lofi ; that the negroes were in arms, and
going 011 with as much fury as formerly ; that
an embargo was laid at the Cape, that the vef
(elswere afraid to land their cargoes, as both
lives and property in the city were considered
as in great danger.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Adrirfna, i<obinf"n, Liverpool
Clothier,
Strong,
Withall,
Ridgeway,
La wrence,
Davifon,
Kef r,
Smith,
Luce,
Fanny,
Sloop Sally,
Sally,
Elizabeth,
Hawk,
Sch'r Ranger,
Isabella,
The Adriana left Liverpool the 24th July—the
London Ihips deiliued for this port, failed ten
days before.
The Minerva, Capt. Scot, is arrived at London
from this port.
Four fhipsarc arrived at Newcastle, Delaware,
with passengers— 3 from Ireland, and 1 from Am*
ftetdam.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 22/
3 per Cents, i 3 y
Deferred, I^6
Full Ames Bank U. S. 49 50 per cent, prem.
| (bares. 60
*#* The Author ofthe piece figved " Aristides,"
will please to objervc, that Jhould his future communi
cations contain personal flritluies, it will be necejjary
that the Editor Jhould know where to apply, in cafe of
emergent ). If "A r ist ides" chvfes to remain con
cealed, the Editor zvill think himfelf at liberty to exer
cise his own difcretienin refpefi to pnblijhing, or other*
wife, ejfays oj a personal complexion.
A variety of Domeflic Articles, original and
fele£lcd t are necejfarily omitted this da v.
The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars per
annum—One half to be paid at the time of fubferibing.
Grand Family Bible.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
An ELEGANT FDITWN of the
SACRED SCRIPTURES
Of the OLD and NEW TESTAMENTS, with the
Apocrypha,'
Oil a very large and beantiful new Type, andJuperjint
Paper.
THE great importance of the Holy Scriptures,
imcrcfting to every individual; the divine excel
lence of its do&rines and precepts, and the beauty
and sublimity of its passages, have so long made it
capital obje& of attentioo, as 10 preclude occa
sion or opportunity for eulogium.
The piety or entrrprize of individuals has pre
fcnted this invaluable book to the public in a va
riety of forms ; in some editions it has been highly
cmbcllifhed with superb engravings, which have
greatly enhanced its price ; in others it has been
accompanied with voluminous commentaries,
which neceflarily encreafed the size; while a va
riety of plain cheap copies have generally diffufed
the knowledge of the Scripture, and made the
purchase ealy to every class.
Without wifning in the smallest degree to leflen
the merits of the various editions, whether plain
or ornamented, which the public are already in
poffeflion of, it is pertinent to remark, that very
many readers of taste and judgment have exprefled
a wiih for a Familv Bible unencumbered with ad
ditions. There still appears room for another
edition on a beautiful new type, superior in size
and elegance to any bible that has yet been printed
in the Englilh language, arid which, leaving the
adventitious circumstances of ornament or com
ment, may exhibit the Oracles oj God in their na
tive limplicity.
SPECIMEN OF THE TYPE.
5 And God said,
d Let there be light: and
there, was light.
With refpe&ful fubmiflfion to the judgment and
candour of the public, the following proposals arc
offered :
I. The woikfhallbc printed with the gieatcft
fidelity and attention to corre&nefs both in the
text and marginal references, on a fuperfine Paper
made on purpole, with an elegant new Type calt
for the woik of the size of the above Specimen.
11. The woik will be comprised in twenty
number?, nuking two elegant volumes in Folio;
to be furnifhed to fubfciibers at one dollar each
number. To prevent any complaints ot v d«t of
punttuality, no p«rt of the work will be deh\crc<*
unless paid for.
111. The fir ft: number, containing sixty folit>
pages, elegantly printed, will be furnifhed on the
fiilt Saturday of July next, when fubferibers
to pay the price of the firft and lecond numbers*
and the price df one number to be always in ad
vance till the work is completed. The subsequent
numbers to be published regularly on the firft Sa
turday ot each succeeding month, till the whole
is finifhed.
(£3r Subscriptions will be'received in Philadel
phia by the Publishers, Thomas Dobson, No. 41,
South Second-street, and John Parker, N0.259,
North Stxond-ftrret ; and by all the Booksellers ;
in Charleston, by William P.Young; Richmond,
bv Aichibald Currie ; Baltimore, by James Rice ;
Wilmington, by Peter Brynberg ; New-York, by
Thomas Allen; New-Haven, bv Ifuac Beers;
Providence, (R. I.) by William Wilkinfon; Sa
lem, by Thomas Cufhing ; Boston, by David
Weft, Benjamin Guild, and Thomas & Andrevi.
Hull
Exeter (G. B.)
C. Francois
Nevis
St. Thomas'
Jamaica
Boflon
dittoBank of theUnitedStates.
RESOLVED,
THAT an Office of Discount and Depolit, lie
cftablifhcd in the City of Richmond, Siateol
Virginia.
RESOLVED,
That the 2d Tuefdav in September next be ip
pointed for the Election of Thirteen D're£tors and
a Calhicr, lor the Ottice of Discount and Dcpolit,
in the City of Richmond.
By Older of the Piefident and Directors,
JOHN KEAN, Calhier.
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY.
'T'HOMAS jamis, wax chandler
X from London, refpeflfnllv informs the public
that he has efbhliihed a Mannfaaory of th? above
branch, at the uoperend ot Mulberrv-Street,New-
York, where Merchants, Captains of Vessels,
Drugsifts, and Families, mav be supplied with
excellent and pure White Wax C indie.., While
Wax in Cakes, Tapers, Wax'd Lamp Wicks.
Flambeaux, &c. warranted equal to any made in
London, and twenty percenr. cheaner.
Orders in this and the adjacent States, received
bv Mr. John Gooan't, Bridge-Street, Mr.
William Frobisiiek, Fletcber-Sireet, and at
the Manufactory, where samples inav be seen.
N B. Bees-Wax taken in payment, or bleached
011 mocferate terms.
New-York, Jul/ 19, 179"
To be publijktd h Su^fcription^
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCEEDINGS OF TBI
Old Conyrejj,
From September 1774, to March 1789 ; —
An authentic and original collection of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c.
written during the late war;
And ext r acts from the
SECRET JOURNALS.
( For particularj f Jee Proposals at large*)
Subscriptions are received by .the principal
Booksellers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON, and other
Booksellers in Philadelphia,
AColleftion of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS; seleCted from differeut
Authors, and published by Order of the Con
vention holding the Do&iine of the Salvation of
alljMen, met in Philadelphia, May 25, 1791.
Price of a single book, bound, 3>Bths of a Dollar,
with good allowance to those who take quantities.
August 4. (eptf.)
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
June 28. 1792.
PURSUANT to the last Will and Teilamentof
the late Rev. Alexander Williamson,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurl
day, the nth of O&ober next,at Georgetown,
on a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved security, to bear interest from
the date—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; ti.e late dwelling
plantation of the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatest part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very considerable
quantity ct fine meadow ;—Situated about 6 miles
from the Federal City,and the fame dift mce from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy part of the country.
1 he improvements ate, a very elegant two story
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
paflage, or entry, on a floor) and the neceflary out
houses. HENRY TOWNSEND,)
BENJ. STODDERT, C Executors.
(epfO) THOMAS JOHNS, )
TERRITORY ok COLUMBIA
TJu L Y 6, 1 792.
HE Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-Seat on
Hock Creek, deemed by those who have ex
mined it, equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter of
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile from
the market house in Georgetown, and one mile
from the President's fquaie, in the city ot Wash
ington—on tide water, navigable for vessels of fc
veral hundred bushels burthen.—The ftrearn is
fufficient.the year round,to turn four pair of stones,
and the fall may be made from 25 to 30 feet It
is ur.neceffary to dwell on the advantages of'fuch
a situation.
The purchaser may be accommodatcd with a
few hundred acres of land adjoining the Mill-Seat,
if that (houid be an object.
(ep3 m 14JUI)
Sixty Dollars Reward.
T) ROKF. goal in Baltimore, the 10th of April
™ i e . h ' S efca P e ' a Nc « ro Man .
BILL FLANAGAN, the property of the fub
lcriber. He is a stout, straight likely fellow, about
25 years o! age; 5 feet 8, 9or 10 inches high. He
afte£ls to be asealous Methodilt, is extremely art
ful, talkative and plausible ; can read, and it ii
supposed can write. He had on a failoi's red cloth
jacket, a fbiped dilto, an old coarse linen shirt
and a pair of canvass trousers ; he was barefooted'
It is not doubted he will alter his drels, and ch.inpe
his name. He was lately the property of Cap't
Joseph Goutrou, ot Baltimore, and was employed
aj a sailor on board his packet ; and it is probabir
may try to get on board some veffcl in capacity ol
seaman.
Ii is fuppofrd he is now in New-York or Phila
delphia Whorvri lakes up and secure? laid
Negro, so that :he (übfiriber gets him again, (hall
receive Sixty Dollars reward, and rrafombh
charges. CHRISTOPHER HUGHES
Baltimore, Augufi i, j 79 a. ( i aw 4 t)
New-Brunswick.
Church Lottery.
JO-L Y 10, 1792.
npKE peculiar circumilances of a gentleman
X who had undertaken to difpofpof a propor
ion of the tickets in the New-Brunfwick Church
Lottery, having, in his opinion, rendered it incon
venient tor him further to proceed in the (ale
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
ets art unexpectedly returned to the Re&or,
Church-War dens and Veftry-mcn. This lays the
Managers udder t he neceflity of further adjourning
the drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of Odtober next, that they rrav have time to trans
mit thefc tickets to the parts of the state where they
are applied for, and teceive the returns Asihete
ire but few tickets besides these remaining on
hand, all persons who are disposed to promote ihe
pious obje£t of this Lottery, or to take a chgije
for the pi izet therein, are requeued to supply tftil
felves by the full of October; and the gentleEA
appointed to dispose of them, are desired to ret»W
those to the Managers which then remain unfo^J||
to answer the applications of some gentlemen
: he neighbourhood, who are postponed to this
fouice lor a supply.—And noiice is hereby given,
that the tickets not returned to the Managers by
the eighth day of O&ober, will be considered as
at the risk of the holders.
N. B. Robert Morris, Esq. of New-B'unf
wick, is duly chosen one of the Managers of the
said Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law. (epiOi)
[ e P7 w ]
A Number of LOTS in every situation which
may be c'efired in City of Washington,
will be offered for falc by the Commiflioners, on
Monday the Bth day of Ottober next. One fourth
part of the money to be paid down, the residue in
three equal annual payments, with yearly interefl
on the whole principal unpaid.
June 2, 1792
A Valuable FARM,
T)LEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
X containing 213 acres, whereof 47 are wood
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made ; the
cleared land is under good fence, and is well
adapted to grass, and there being so much meadow,
a large stock may be raised : it is also natural to
wheat, and a proper attention to a well-kept flock,
will much improve its quality, and be the mod
piofitable : it has a young orchard of 200 apple
trees, a variety of peach and cherty trees, and a
large garden. There are on the premises a hand
f*~«me two story stone house and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza ; also, a good barn, with stabling,
cow-house, granary, waggon-house, work-shop,
and fmoak-houfe. The fiiuation is high, pleasant,
and healthv, and affords some very agreeable pro
fpetts, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies 011
the main road to New-York, about a mile and a
half from Princeton, New-Jersey, and 43 from
this city. The till was examined and approved
by eminent council before thefubferiber purchased.
For further particulars apply to the fubferiber, at
No. 141, South Second-street, or at No. 81, South
Water-ftrect, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
N. B. Stock for the farm may be had of the prc
fent tenant.
Also, to be Sold, and entered immediately,
A two-story Brick HOUSE and BAKE-HOUSE
in Arch-street, No. 93, 16 feet two inches in front,
and 102 feet in depth. Apply as above,
July 17,
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfell
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE or
STOCKS ON COMMISSION, Begsleave u» ofter
his services to his friends and others, in the line
ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with 'heir business, may depend upon
having it tranfafted with the uttnoft fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bolton, orany other
part of me United States will be ftriaiy attend
ed to. 7
May 2
100 Dollars Reward.
T OST on Cambtidge Common, Massachusetts,
i~d on the afternoon of the 18'h uli. a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK, with a lice! clasp,
a number of valuable papers, among which were
the following Public Sec u r 1 x 1 es, viz
Malfacliufeus State Notes-No. 2,425, dated
December ~ .782, payable to Thomas Greenwood,
tor £.23 i6j. principal—No. 22.390, dated Ja
nuary 1, 1 785, payable 10 Nathaniel Partridge 10,
f .0 tor principal.-No. , da „ d
!, 1782, (an army note) payable to Timothv How.
ard, to. / . 8 8;. id. principal.— No. a Nl ,„
(the number da-.c, and ,0 whom payable, no,
known) lor £.3 os. 3 J. pnncipal.—Onc Indent
r r ? olhrs - and a New-Hamp
oie to the Subscriber. The Sccurnies are checked
u ihe different offices from whence they were
! a, . ,d the N ' m « <>f Hand by il, e different
;row^ h ;
H, T ! , " SUbf n il ' erh: ' rCby reward of On.
H L ND R tD Do LIARS lo anv i« r fnn
Who has found the fame, and will return them "o
him, or leave them wiih the Printer hrrrnf a
no Cjuelhons will be aflced. «Eof, and
B. STODDERT
%**/f ? y
had of the 1 AT£S ' ""> kt
George-T own.
JOHN M'GANTT, Clerk
to the Comnnflioners.
[eplf]
TO BE SOLD,
(And polleflion given immediately)
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(t.f.)
116
Treasury Department,
AuGUiT 10, 1792.
XTOTICE is hereby given, that proposals wiil
lN be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next inclusive, foi the supply of ail Rations
which may be required for the ufc of the United
States, from the firft day of January to the thirty
firft day of December, 1793, bo-h days inclusive,
at the places, and witlmi the diftridts hereafter
mentioned, viz.
1. At any place or placesbetwixtYoik-Town &
Carlifle,infhe state ot Pennfylvan>a,and Pitt (burgh,
And at Pittsburgh, York-Town and Carlisle.
2. At any place or places from Pittsburgh to the
mouth of Bis Beaver Creek, and at the mouth of
Big Beaver Creek.
3. At anv place or places from the said mouth to
the upper falls oJ the said Btg Beaver, and at the
upper falls.
4. At any place or places from the said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places from the said Mahonin?
mve r to the Head Navigation of the River Caya-
and at the said Head Navigation.
|&6. At any place or places from the said Mead Na-
to the mouth of the said Rivet
said mouth.
7/fcx any place or places betwixt the mouth of
the Big Beaver Creek to the mouth of the River
Mufkingum, and up the said River to the Tufca
rowas, and at the Tufc'arowas, and thence over to
the Cayahoga River, and thence down the said
River to its mouth.
8. At anyplace or places betwixt the mouth of
the River Mufkingum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, and at the mouth of *he said River Scioto.
g At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the mouth of the Great Miami, and from ihence
<0 the Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
10. At any place or places betwixt the mouth o
the Great fyliami, up the said Miami to and ai
Pique Town.
11. At any place orplaces from Fort Washington
to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
place or places from Fort Hamilton 10 Fort Si.
Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At any place or places from Fort St. Clair to
Fort Jefferfon, and at Fort jrfferfon.
13. At any place or places from Fort Jefferfon to
the field of a&ion of the 4th of November, 1 ,
and at the said field of action.
14. At any place or places from the said field of
action to the Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
15- At anv place or places from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls of the Miami River, which
empties into Lake Erie, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at iis mouth.
16. At any place or places from the mouth of ihe
said Miami River of Lake Erie toSandufky Lake,
and at Sandufky Lake.
17. Atany place or places from \he said Sanaufkv
Lake to the mouth of the River Cavahoga.
18. At anv place or places from the mouth of the
laid River Cayahoga to Prefque lfle, and at Prefque
Ide.
19. At any place orplaces from Prefque Ifleto the
stream running into Lake F.rie from towards the
Jadaghque Lake, and thence over to and at the
said Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alleg
hany River to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place or places IromPrefquelfle toLe
Beuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At anv place or places from I.e Beuf to Fort
Frankl'n, and at Fort Franklin, and from thence
to Pittfburgfi.
22. Atany place or placesfrom theßapidsof the
Ohio to the mouth of the Wjbafh River, and fn>m
the mouth of the said Wabalh River to the mouth
>1 the River Ohio.
(eptf)
23. At anv place or places on the East fide of the
River Mifliflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the Illionois River.
24. At any place or places on the Eaftfideof t'.-
Miflifiippi, between the mouth of the Ohio and
the River Margot inclusively.
25. At any place or piaces from the said River
Ma 1 to the River Yazous inclusively.
26. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said Wabafh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fort
Knox.
27. At any place or places from Fort Knox, up
the said Wabalh, to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
28. At any place or places from Ouittanon,up the
said Wabalh, to the head navigation of a branch
thereof called Liule River, and at the said head
navigation ol J.utle River.
29. At any place or places from itie said head na
vigation of Little River over to the Miami Village.
30. At anv place or pbces from the mouth of the
River Tencffee to Occochappo or Bear Creek, on
thefaid Rivei, inclusively.
31. At any place or placesfrom the mouth of the
River Cumberland 10 Nalhville, on the said River,
nnd at Nallmlle.
And at any place or places within thirty miles
if said Nalhville to the Southward, Wcftward or
Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any placcs, or
within other diftri&s, not fpecififd in these pro
pofalsj the price of ttoe fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the contra&si.
The rations to be supplied are to confiil of the
folio wing articles, viz.
One pound of biead or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whilky,
One quart of fait,
Iwo quaits of vinegar, \
Two pounds of soap, r P er 100 raf >ons.
One pound of candles, )
The rations are to> be furnilhed in such quanti
-1 ies as that there shall at all time*, during the laid
term, be fufficient for the consumption of tht
troops at each of the said posts, lor the space of at
least three months in advance, in good and wholc
fome proviftons, if the fame shall be required.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that allloffes
fallal tied by the depredations of the enemy, or by
means of the troops ot the United States, lhall be
paid for at the prices of the articles captured or dc
ltroyed, on the depositions of two or more credita
ble charters, and the certificate of a commission
ed ofheer, ascertaining the circumstances of the
lols.and the amount of the articles lot which com
pensation is claimed.
T he contrast for the above supplies will be made
either for one year, or for two years, as may appear
eligible, IVfont difpofcd t« MBmtf *
r = confine their ofFe.s M« m
make .heir proppfi [lcw , so „
of the term of two yeaiv ' ~
The offers may comprise ,11 ,l, e phct.^vdr
b «° defied, or , part of (hem „, y h%S
Treasury Department,
August aoth, i 79 2.
NOTICE is hereby given, that promt,!, wi |.
be received at th-- office of .he '
the Treasury, until the 13th day of Oct ,t, ?
include, for the lupoly if ail T
be required for the ufc of the L'uiicd S-air, 1
-hefirftday of January to lhe
December , 793. bo.„d„y s inr.lufi,;, „ Sp,i nt fi tl °
in tne Sidle ot Maflachuletu. and the PolUl Well!
Point, in the State of New-York.
The rations to be fupplicd, are to cons.st u ( lhj!
following articles, M
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef, or Jof a pound of k
Half a jill of rum, brandv or whifkv
One quart of fait,
|Two quarts of vinegar, /
■Two pounds of soap, ( P er 100 r "ionf.
Cne pound of candles. )
The proposals mav be madt for both or the
'» s "». ;
Treasury Department,
Aucus-r, 20th, l-g 2 .
NOTICE is hereby given, that propcfaU will
be received attheoffire of the Secretary of
the Treasury until the fourth day of Oftnber next
"icluflvely, lor the supply of the following articles
of Clothing for the Troops in the service of
the United States viz.
For the INFANTRY and ARTILLERY
46c8 Hats 18460 Shirts
4608 Coats 7 q,5« Pair of Socks
Vests ' 4608 Blankets
8668 Woolen Overalls 4608 Stocks
9216 Linen Overalls 4608 Stock Clasps
18376 Pair of Shoe* 4608 Pair of Buckle*
For the CAVALRY.
360 Caps T2O Pair of Stockings
360 Coats 1440 Shirts
360 Vests 360 Blankets
360 Pair of Leather 360 Stocks
(Breeches 360 S'ork Clalps; also,
720 Pair of Boots 1200 Rifle Shirts, to be
360 Pair of Spurs (made of Ruflia Sheeting.
The above Clothing to be delivered either in
New-York, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the op
tion of the contra&or or contractors, on or before
the 15; h day of June, 1793.
The proposals may comprise the whole of the
before-mentioned Clothing, or any one or more
I of thecomponent articles; to be furniflied agreea
bly to patterns or specimens, which will be (hewo
at the War Oflfrcc. Good security will be requir
ed for the pun&ual and faithful perlormance of
( he contra&. The payment will be on the delive
ry of the Clothing, or, if neceflary, such reasona
ble advances will be made a. the Secretary of the
Treasury shall deem expedient.
War Department,
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are intitled for fix months
of their annual pension. from the 4th day of March
1792, and which will become due on the sth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the said day
by the Commiflioners of the Loans within the
States refpeftively, under the ulual regulations,viz.
Eve»y application for payment must be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
The certificate given bv the ftate,fpecifying
that the person poffefling the fame is in fact an in
valid, and afceitaining the sum to which as fuchhc
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Jujlices of the
county of in the slate of and made oath that
he is the fume A. B. to whom the original certificate
in his possession was given, of which the following is
a copy (the certifcale given by the slate to be recited)
That he served (regiment, corpt or vessel) "t
the time he was disabled, and that he now refaes in
the and county of and has refilled
there for the lafi years, previous to which he re
sided in
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by
an attorney, the said attorney, besides the certifi
cate and oath before recited, mull produce a spe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to :he following
form :
I. A. B. of county of "I f'
hereby conflitute and appoint C. D. of ' an j u
attorney, to receive in my behalf of my penjion
for fix months, as an invalid of the United totes,
from the fourth day of March, one thou/and even
hundred and ninety-two, and ending the fjth 7
September, one thoujandfeven hundred and ninety-two-
Signed and sealed
in the presence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and admi"
mufi be accompanied with legal evidence 0
refprttive office?, and also of the time the inva
died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the
Prcfident of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the ref P cai^Sla*Xa-
requefted to publifli the above in their »
pers, for the space of two months.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG,
Of the very fiift quality, and ' a, <^
from Canton, *ia New-York, by retai ,
No. 19,
Third,between Chcfnut and Market Str« ■
V'
■5
August 6, 1792,
Witnejfcs.