A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHIL ADF.I PHI A
[No. 82, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, February 8, 1792.
FROM A VIRGINIA PAPER
LEGISLATURE OF GEORGIA
ON the ryth of December the Senate after
having examined into the several charges a
gainst Judge Olborne, pronounced him guilty,
as follows :
Whereas Henry Ofborne, Esquire, one of the
judges of the Superior Court of the State of Geor
gia, hath been impeached by the Honorable the
House of Reprel'entatives before the Senate of
the said State, and in General Assembly met ;
the Senate having heard evidence in support of
the said charges, and on hearing argument, as
■well on the part of the prosecution, as on the
part of the said Henry Ofborne, and taking the
premises into conflderation, do find the said Hen
ry Ofborne, one of the judges of the Superior
Court, GUILTY of the firft, second, third, fifth,
and sixth articles of impeachment against him.
The Senate do find the said Henry Ofborne not
guilty of the fourth articlc against him. And
for the offences whereof the said Henry Ofborne
is declared guilty, this High Court, founded on
an express article of the Constitution of the State
of Georgia, doth award and adjudge.
First. That the said Henry Olborne fliall be no
longer'one of the Judges of the Superior Court
of the State of Georgia ; and that his naine be
struck off the lift of Justices in Cambden county.
Secondly. That he (hall be incapable to hold
any office of trust, honor or profit, iV» this State,
for thirty years
Thirdly. That his name ftioll be struck off the
roll of the attornies at law.
Fourthly. That he shall pay the sum of fix hun
dred in specie, oh or before the firft Mon
day in June next, to defray the adtual costs of
this profecntion : and that the recognizance of
the laid Henry* Qlborne, and his sureties, remain
of force nntil the said fnm be paid into the Treia
fnry, or his body surrendered to the (heriff of
Richmond county, in discharge of such sureties.
On the 23d of December, both Houses of As
fembly of that state came to the following refo-
Jution :
Refotved, That the approbation and thanks of
this Legtflatnre be communicated to Gen. James
jackson, a Representative from the county of
Chatham, for his exertions in bringing forward
to public investigation an attack on the liberties
and privileges of the citizens of this Hate, in the
last election for a member to represent this (late
in the Cotigrefs of the United States.
The conducft of the citizens of the State of
Georgia, in thus punishing an officer who had
made so nnjuftifiable a life of his appoiniment,
deserves to be highly applauded by every friend
to his country. This noble example will prove
to our rulers, that the people watch with due
circumfpetftion, their rights and privileges, and
that they are at all times ready to step forth in
defence of them.
BOSTON
A letter from J fines Bowdoin, Esq. proposing
a plan for the dies of the poor, in the article
of fuel, and offering in cafe the town should con
cur in the measure suggested, to pay to whonifo
ever the town should decree to receive it, tool,
by way of donation, towards carrying said plan
into full execution, vras communicated to the in
habitanis by the feletftroeu j whereupon it was
voted, That the thanks of the town, &c. be given
Mr. Bowdoin, for his generous offer, and also
that the fele&men be a committee to take the
proposed plan into consideration and report
therfcon.
Q, U E B E C, December 19.
By a letter from a gentleman at St. Paul's Bay,
to a refpec r table mercantile house in this city, we
are favotctl with accounts of a diftrefling ten
dency— Ihe 6ih inft. a shock of an earthquake
was felt, and between that and the 15th (the
date of the letter) 29 (hocks more were felr, 9 of
which were very severe, and did considerable da
mage to feveial houses, the church, &c. It ob
liged the inhabitants to quit their honfes very
often, feai ful of their falling every moment, as
nothing lei's could be expetfed. At the time of
the gentleman's writing the account, lie felt two
lhocks more ; a poor female loft her senses by the
fright—they did not hear of any lives being loft,
buc the people were in a state of apprehension
for other quarters.
FROM THE QIJFEEC HERALD.
MONODY
Alas, where wish for I have Jlray'd
/ can wander with pleasure, alone !
LEAVE me, my friend, the wild fequefter'd wood,
The melancholy brook, the whifp'nng wind,
The plaintive linnet's «ote,* and solitude
Suit bcft the tender anguifhof my mind,
Nor wonder at my choicc, if fond I stray,
Refign'd to thought, beneath the lonelv grove ;
Absent and dull I lounge among the g a y;
Their jokesdifpJeafe,—my heart is with my love.
Would'ft thou with friendly conveife sooth my c«re,
Praise the mild azure of my Delia's eye;
Dwell on the loften'd graces of my faii%
Nor call it affe6tation, if I sigh.
Her foft, expressive, melting eyes bcfpeak
A foul as gentle as her acccnts How ;
Mild is the dimple on her crimlon cheek,
Her auburn trefles shade a neck of snow r
Tall Chines thcgrsceful maid—yet ?b desist,
In pity cease to praise the matchlcfs fair ;
You nurse the anxious sorrows of my breast.
And only plunge me deeper in despair.
In silence oft, and with a ftifled sigh,
An humble tender glance I fond have stole ;
if I met her foul fubduiog eye,
Let lovers tell the transports ot my foul !
I thought (be pity'd me—ah fool, the while !
Her lovely eyes a thousand hopes can move ;
Despair is banifh'd by her beauteous smile ;
And ah, how talfe a flatterer is love !
Here muting, let me pass my penfiveday ;
Disturb no more, my friend, the sacred fliade ;
For here. *n happier hours, she deign'd to stray,
Each objed round recalls my fav'rite maid.
On this green bank, where once her limbs reclin'd,
Romantic let me sigh mv hours away,
And in fond raptures gladly call to mind.
The gentle things my charmer deign'd to fay.
Ah whv thy melancholy friend persuade
The dull, unfeeling revellers to join ?
To quit the image of the beauteous maid.
And drown my cares in turbulence and wine ?
I hate such gross debarments of the foul,
Such falfe, unfteadv joys I scorn to prove ;
Full well thou know-'ft 'he magic of the bowl ;
And wine deceives and flatters more than love.
Haft i-hou iy>t seen a veteran profound
In drunken ostentation count his fears,
Hisflufh'd companions nodding ail around,
Tir'd with a long detail of endless wars ?
His u-nprais'd arm would many a hofl engage
Down it deeends—nor e'en the table spares
Then, with a (VgH, wc pity'd prating age,
And loft the reverence due to silver haits.
Haft thou not seen, deceiv'd by fraudful wine,
In felf conceit and nauseous bumpers drown'd,
Ten orators, at dnce, attempt to (hine,
And sputter nonfenfeand confufion round ?
The foul, rrrijlrujtirtg, ajks iftkifbe joy /+
Such groveling scenes are poor relief for sorrow ;
E'en while falfe hopes his heated mind employ,
Each bloated caitiff trembles for to-morrow.
Say, ftiouid I quit love's pure, refining sway,
To claim a despicable drunkard's praise ?
As soon I'd change the morning'schearful ray
For the dull crackle of a stubble blaze !
Rut flattering love ill can mv foul withstand ;
My Delia's eyes inspire a brighter flame;
The *rntleft preffureof her lilly hand
Thrills with ethcrial transport through my frame.
F.'lacious Love, thou dear deluding pwwer,
Soften her tender bosom while I sigh ;
Or change my being to a vernal flower,
Plac'd on her breast to taste of bliss—and die !
Fancy, be itill ! ah why increase my pain ?
Why fondly dwell, invidious on her charms ?
Why aid Dlspai r to paint some happier swain
Clafp'd to her breast, and folded in her arms ?
And felf tormenter, Envy, shun mv breast
Whate'er my fate, be this my conftaint pray'r ;
In all her wilhes let the maid be blcft,
And be her life as happy as she's fair !
* An American bird, remarkable for the dull monotony of it's note.
+ Goldsmith.
PARIS, O&ober 26
THE Archduke and Council ot Brabant have
lately taken the most decided and even vigo
rous nieafures againfl the refracftory Hates ; as
they give room for apprehending serious conse
quences, and are even considered as 011 the eve of
a declaration of hollilities. ,
The minister at war has given a farisfaftory
account to the national afl'embly of his condudt
with regard to the four soldiers who are detain
ed in prison notwithstanding the amnelty. It
appears that the non-conforming priests are in
force in several of the provinces. At St. Pierre
le Bonne, they appeared at the head of five hun
dred peasants, and plundered the church of the
holy utensils, &c. &c.
325
Shenston E.
tit&o
[Whole No. 290.]
Mr. Hooft, the patriotic Burgomafler,and one
of the 1110 ft diftinguifbed of the Dutch refugees,
has been insulted in a very violent manner ac
Deventer, and conduced out of the town amid
the abuse and pelting of the populace, who filled
his carriage with mud. The government are
fufpecfted to have countenanced this proceeding
from political motives.
In the department de l'Orne, the refradtory
priefls have attempted to make themselves mas
ters of the parifti church of , by force of
arms. This sedition has been quelled by the
good eonduil of the municipality.
The carriage and free circulation of grain and
other provisions, continues to meet with greac
interruption from the fears and fufpicionsof the
people in the provinces ; particularly in the de
partments of the Loiret, Loir and Chur, Indre
and Loir, and Magenrie and Loire, which has
drawn upon the directories of those department*
a very sharp monitory from the minilter, by the
King's order.
M. de Damas, late governor of Martinique, is
accused before the national aflembly, by (oineof
the persons whom he sent to France, of sedition
and rebellion at the commencement of the trou
bles in that island. Are there no tribunals of
juftire but the legiflarive body, which cannot ex
ercise it without violating the constitution ? But
what is become of the amnesty !
VIENNA, October 14.
Government has just published an ordinance,
enjoining all its magistrates " ftriftly to observe
the conduct of the French emigrants in the pro
vinces of Austria : to prevent all unlawful exces
ses and dangerous enterprizes on their part, and
to be particularly careful that they do not enlist
any Austrian fubjetfs—and even to compel all
such Frenchmen to quit the country, who are un
der suspicions of that nature—tofeize upon their
persons, if necessary, to examine them, and to fee
that they he furnidied with no (applies whatever
by the fubjecfts of Austria, that might enable them
to acl offenfively against their country.
LONDON, November x^6
It is said that the lofles of the Nootka Sound
Proprietors are now in a fair train of being
speedily reimbursed by Spain.
A private letter from Count Bruhl has beea
published, in which he aflerts, that the only mo
tive for encouraging the French Noblesse to emi
grate, was to get as much of their specie as pos
sible.
PEARL FISHERY
With the late advices received from the East-
Indies, a letter was received by a gentleman in
the city, giving an account of a late season of
Pearl-fifhing, full of information as to the nature
of it, and the success with which it was altered.
There fell some very fine rains at theo'*ej>ing
of the season. The several barks employed ia
the filhery put off each morning before the fuu
rose, and returned about noon.
The clivers were some of the mod expert in the
world. As soon as a bark had cad anchor, every
diver tied an heavy weight to one as his feet,
which funk him to the bottom of the sea. Here
he moved upon the sand, or among the points of
rocks, tearing off the oysters he met with, and
pulling them into a net tied to him by a long
cord, the other end of which was fattened to the
fide of the bark. By the fame cord he was pul
led when he was supposed to want air.
A fine /killFul boy, of spirit and adventure, ne
ver returned with his net; he was destroyed by
some fi(h. This sometimes happens, and is on<
of the greatest perils of pearl-fiftiing.
» • • - 1
The divers in general wore no sooner brought
up, than into the Tea they jumped again, conti
nuing this violent exercise without, intermission
for many hours. On the fliore they unloaded
their barks, and laid their oysters in pits dug in
the sand, till the fun opened and killed them
and oot dropped the pearls.
The pearls have an advantage over precious
(tones dug out of rocks, which owe their lustre
entirely to human industry ; — whereas the for
mer are einbellifhed purely by nature, and the
finiftiing of them is only by art: they are formed
wirh that brilliant waier which makes them so
highly prized : they have an elegant polifli in the
sea : nature adorns them herfelf, before they are
taken from her: they coine fair, perfetfl, and
beautiful from their mother.CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY, January 10, 1792-
Continuation of the Debate tn the Petition oj Catha
rine Greene, widow of the late Gen. Greene.
General sumpt-er raid, with refpetft to
the resolution as it now hands, he should
always feel himfelf obliged to oppose it—no
thing that has fallen from the gentleman over
the way (General Wayne) has convinced me that
the measure is proper or just. It was necelikry,
he said, to be cautious in the manner of difcufl
ing a matter of so much delicacy—he did not
rife to make any pointed objections at present
that can in any degree injure the reputation of
the officer whose abilities he refpedted, or to hurt
the feelings of his family or connections. I lup
pofe, said he, that no gentleman will decide in
favor of the resolution without examining the
merits of the cafe : the committee will have that
information which they shall deem to be requi
site on the occasion. lam f»rry to difFer in opi
nion with the gentleman from Georgia, and am
therefore difpol'ed to make lacrifices of my own
feelings of part injuries, and will not fufFer them
to warp or bias my judgment, but will endeavor
to decide in conformity with the opinions of the
people the state of South Carolina, and in parti
cular of the diftri<st which I have the honor to
represent. In going into the investigation of this
matter, I will give my reasons why 1 do not think
the country, although in extreme distress, was
in that deplorable situation which has been re
presented ; neither was its credit reduced folow
but that relief might have been obtained, and
that so small an army might have been accom
modated had a proper application been made in
time to the government. —The gentleman mult
therefore be mistaken in Itating those circum
stances, for if the proper documents be examin
ed, it will appear that the army received very
ample supplies from the fame source, some months
previous to the contract made by Mr. Banks—
which mult have been in November, or early in
December, and previous to the evacuation of
Charleston. Whether it was better to adopt the
means used by Gen. Greene, or those within the
power of the government, 1 shall i»ot pretend to
determine, but I have no doubt but that the go
vernment poflefled both the means and the incli-
nation.
The contrail was firft made by Banks in No
vember or December, and Gen. Greene did not
become the guarantee until the April following
—whether there were any reasons for preferring
this mode to that of an application to govern
ment, will perhaps appear in the course of the
investigation.
Mr. Chairman, this contract has been consider
ed to have operated rather as a misfortune, al
though it may have afforded a temporary relief:
it was the occasion of much complaint, vexation
and difltruft, rather than of conciliation : and
th&t difcouten-t ran through the army is with
in wie knowledge of several officers whose names
could be mentioned.
It is therefore neceflary to bring the matter
into the full view of the committee, and to have
rec«urfe to the files of the public offices, before
we agree to the resolution on the table. At the
fame time it is my sincere wiffi to render jullice
to the family of the deceased in every reasonable
accommodation ; but it does not appear to me
that the family are reduced to that disagreeable
situation which has been represented—The large
grants that have been made by the dates of Geor
gia, North and South-Carolina, are (till in the
pofleflion ofthe heirs ofthe deceased, and 1 have
been informed that a gentleman offered 30,000
dollars for that granted by N. Carolina, so late as
last fumtner—neither have I Iveard that any dis
tress has been levied upon any of these estates, or
that they are so much affedted in reality, but tha:
the claims made againll them are rather of a no
minal and visionary nature.—But admiting that
General Greene was fertility for the United
States, and that the operation had been benefi
cial, (which by the bye I deny) does it appear
that executions have been levied to any consider
able amount, or to such an extent as to iuftify
the present application ?_To me it does not ap
pear this has been the cafe, neither do 1 believe
that the estate has been reduced in the manner
represented ; and whilst I fay it, I honestly and
unceieJy hope it ; under which impreflion I can
never accede to the resolution on the table
Mr. Wadfworth—The gentleman lalt up has
saul many things to me utterly unintelligible
and others which diredtly militate with what I
lias been said by the gentleman from Georgia— '
He has, however, declared that no real or sup
posed perfotia! injury (hall influence him in giv
ing his opinion or vote—l hope, fir, he will not
now feel or resent those real or supposed inju
ries Ido believe they are not real—and from
my long and intimate acquaintance with Gen.
Greene, 1 had good opportunity to know him—
a better man I never did know—that he had e
nemies is not to be wondered at—the nature of
his command to the southward was important,cri
tical and difficult, and he might be constrained
to do things that neceflity only would joftify—
if he has injured any man he has attoned for it
neither the tougue or pen of malice have been
able to affix a ltigma on his charadier—lf I ever
knew a man whose heart was pure and without
guile, it was Gen. Greene—yet he had enemies
—no man deserved them so little—more honed
fame is due to no man—and if his fortune is to
be facrificed, and his family beggared, it is a con
folarion that his good name will lall forever.—
Being one of his executors, I know something of
his affairs, but it was with reludlance 1 rose, as
my attachments to him and concern for his fa
mily, render it extremely difficult for me to en
ter on the fubjedi—The gentleman from South-
Carolina has told us he is acquainted with the
affairs of the estates in the Carolinas, and has
told us they are without any executions against
them, the bonds on good credit, and the family
in no danger of poverty, &c.—l can hardly al
low, fir, that he is acquainted with the affairs of
Gen. Greene, even in South-Carolina and Geor
gia—but if he is, I will ask him if he does not
know that all the negroes from the South-Caro
lina estate are fold, and the land totally unpro
ductive—that Mr. Rutledge has prevented exe
cutions from taking the Georgia estate by his
personal interference—that all the estates in
Rhode-Island and New-Jersey are fold and
that the hope of the justice we now ask for, has
delayed the sale of all the reft—to fatisfy his
creditors—his southern creditors !
The proofs and documents alluded to by the
gentleman, (Gen. Sumpter) have been before
Congress for several years, and the friends and
executors of Gen. Greene, have challenged his
enemies in every part of the Union to disprove
them—and I hope no delay will now take place
—the business is fully before Congress—l hope
justice will be done to the widow and orphans
of the late Gen. Greene—and that the investiga
tion -will now be finifhed—his honed fame vin
dicated and eftabliihed—and his family saved
from the ruin that awaits then).
MONDAY, January 24.
Same Subjefl continued.
Col. Hartley, in support of General Wayne's
motion, observed, I have paid some attention to
the report and the documents referred to in it,
as well as the objections made to the resolutions
under consideration.
Many of the objections have been answered by
gentlemen who were nearer the Scene of a&ion
than myfelf: I shall strive to obviate others.
The mode of conducting our affairs in South-
Carolina, does not seem to have been agreeable
to the gentleman opposite to me from that state
(Gen. Sunipter) and he expresses his high disap
probation of many parts of it. When 1 disagree
with that gentleman, I do it with great reluctance;
for no one en this floor has a greater refpecft for
him than myfelf.
In a hazardous and difficult situation, or in
carrying on war, or even in great politicaj ques
tions, the bell friends may differ in the mode of
conducing the fame ; and it has too frequently
happened, that such difference has tended to les
sen the friendfhip which formerly existed. Upon
the whole, our arms to the southward were
crowned with success: we must presume the
means generally used, were right.
If supplies could have been furnifhed by the
state of South-Carolina, it is a pity they were not
granted. I fay, it is poflible Gen. Greene might
have pursued a different mode to obtain cloathino
and prorrifion. He did not. He was of
no other plans could have been fuccefsfully fol
lowed, but those which were adopted.
The idea of his being a partner with Banks
and Co. seems to be given up bv the opposition.
The mere insinuation of Mr. Banks and some
others, can have no influeuce against such a cloud
of evidence and documents. These for the Ge
neral are so ttrong, that they would work con
viction upon almost the greatefl infidel.
I shall barely advert to a part of them, as men
tioned in the report, and on this head srive a few
observations of my,own.
The application to the legiflarnre of South-
Carolina, in order to create a competition. Had
he been concerned as a partner, or intended to
be io no competition through that channel would
have been proposed. If he was to be a partner,
ad'Zige " "• lnr * 5U, •". "iEI." lh«
Tile bond of indemnity so General Greene.
Oaths of Banks and Hunter,
326
Certificate from Major Forfytb.
Natbahiel Pendleton's oath.
Charles C. Pinckney's oath (now Governor of
Sonth-Carolina) and the certificates of the tw o
Chancellors of South-Carolina, who were both
high in the executive, when tliefe tranfaiftions
/hould have happened.
Besides, fir, if we consider how many partners
there were concerned with in the different
transactions ; had General Greene been one of
the Company, it must long since have been ma
nifefted to the world. The secret could not have
been kept nor can we possibly think, that Gen.
Greene (who was undoubtedly a man of nnder-
Itanding) would have exprefled himfelf in the
manner he has done, in the close of his letter
from Newport, dated the 24th of August, 1785
had he been a partner. He fays there, " Thus
have I given your Excellency a short narration of
the origin and situation of this matter, and have
only to add on this fubjedt, that I never held any
commercial connexion with the company, other
than what concerned the public, either diretflly
or indiredtly, or ever received onefarthingprofit
or, emolument, or the promise of any one from
them ; and my bond of indemnity expressly de
clares that I have 110 interest, connexion or con
cern in the debts for which I became bound, all
which I am willing to verify on oath."
Could he pledge his honor, his reputation, had
he been guilty of an untruth ? No, it is impotfi
ble ! nature cannot credit it. He would have
been silent had he been a culprit, and not have
challenged the world, as the power of detection
would have laid with so many, and the (haft of
envy always ready—l hope every man tnuft be
fatisfied that the General was no partner.
The great points of contest before the commit
tee seem now to be, v
I ft. Did the Genera! enter into these engage
ments out of personal regard to individuals, with
out a view to the public interest?
2dly. Was not the good of the public his prin
cipal object ?
Under all circumstances, (hould riot his
eftatebe indemnified ?
As to the firtt, I cannot think that the General,
out of mere personal regard to individuals, with
out a view to the public good, would have been
bail. He had been elteemed a man of prudence,
and was not a person of large fortune. How
would he embarrass his family and property in
such engagements? Who, under mere motives
of friendship, would have done so ? The sum was
too large—he had no interest. He got no goods
or money for himfelf. He might have had a fa
vorable opinion of some of the company, bat his
relponfibility was become neceflary with a view
to the public good.
As to the second, public good inuft have been
his principal object. The contracts before made
would not have been carried into execution,
without the aid of the contract, for which the in
demnity was made in April 1783. A great manv
articles were absolutely neceflary to the army—
they were connected with others—the neceflaries
could not at that critical period, or for the mo
ment, be obtained else where. The merchants,as
I understand, infilled upon two conditions before
they would deliver the goods—ift, that all (he
goods should go together—2d, that the command
ing officer should become security.
There was a necessity for an additional capital,
Co furnifh the means for supporting the army;
and as mod of the goods were ufeful and neces
sary, the residue might be disposed of to the bed
advantage, and the money arising from them be
applied towards payment of the debt*-
Public necessity and the (late of things would
oblige the General to agree to the firft condition.
The compliance with the second condition be
came a neceflary consequence.
The General's letter from Newport, and Gen.
Wayne's oath, Nathaniel Pendleton's oath, and
other evidence, prove the situation of the army.
As to the third point, should nor his eflate be
indemnified ?—Through his zeal for the public
good, he has unfortunately involved hiseftatem
difficulty, whatever the conduct of the company
might be. The creditors were not to be ?ffected
either by the fraud or failure of Banks and the
purchasers. General Greene was liable.
The General, when he hears of mifc«ndoct,
does all he can Co save and indemnify himfel'*
and through him the United States fecuriti'j
were taken in as ample a manner as they com
be obtained from the delinquents ; and Genera
Greene never wished to call upon the public,
until every other means failed. So late as t
year 1785 he had dill hopes there would be no
loss, but then he found the danger ; a fenff 0
duty obliged him to come forward to save hiw
felf and family, to ask the protection of thep"
lie, to indemnify him from a debt that he '
contracted to save an army from mutiny and >
banding ; to protect a country which other"" e
would have been exposed. Many exertions ij>
he to make to feed the hungry and co*c 1 ®
naked : were not these for the public good, a"
(hall his private property fuffer ? Shall his
ly be reduced to beggary, be ltiipped of t 61all to discharge what the United States are in
honor and jnftice bound to pay ?
Retrospective l«tws, to afFeift rights attacked,
ou"ht never to pais ; but laws have frequently
been enacted to indemnify persons tor a con
du<ft, though not ftridlly legal, but founded on
the special circumstances of the cafe : the l.itety
or honor of a nation or army, where the contli •
tutional authority could not come forward in
time. Such was the treaty or system formed by
the Duke of Marlborough and the great DeWitt.
The j)utch instead of punishing their minilteiy
approved the inealure ; it eventually tended to
the fafety and honor ol the allies.— Ihe indivi
dual risks the step fW his country's good —a mag
nanimous government will always fanclify.
We fliould consider the cafe upon fubltamial
principles, not according to the letter, not a<ft as
the Lacedemonians did to one o( their leaders ;
they fined him for the infringement of the let
ter of the law, yer for the fame act rewarded the
hero with a garland.
The fine here ruins the General's eltate, and
the garland alone, ! fear, in this country, will
not give his children bread or a becoming edu-
cation. . ,
In our late contest the common maxims of old
nations could not always be adhered to. We
were obliged to ndl according to emergencies
In the cafe Greene, he seems to have in
tended for the best. He helped to fei ve and
save a country. His merit Itands high indeed.
I need not repeat the nmnber of his great and
glorious actions, which mark him the General
and the hero. His name will be handed down
with honor to succeeding ages.
Under all circuniftances 1 think his estate
should be indemnified. If the committee do not
like the whole of the resolution, let there be a
division, as proposed by one of the gentlemen
from South-Carolina ; though I fhoiild think we
might iafely vote for the whole of the rel'oltti
ob, and let the bill make airp other provisions
■which may be thought neceflary.
("The fubje<ft was further difcufled—Mr. Lee,
Mr. Barnwell, Gen.-Wayne and Mr. Bourne, R.I.
speaking in favor of agreeing to the resolutions,
and Mr. Macon and Mr. Sturges against the mo
tion. General Snmpter closed the debate it) sun
dry remarks on extratfs from letters wrote by
General Greene during the late war, inferred in
Gordon's History of the American Revolution,
■which extracts contain unfavorable reflections on
the militia of South-Carolina, & the patriotism of
the inhabitants of that state. These reflections;
Gen. Snmpter Taid, Were gross calumnies on, and
mifrepi efentations of the character of that peo
ple, which he said were invalidated by faifts
that at that time »o6k place, and by the gene
ral tenor of the condu<fi of South-Carolina
throughout the whole course of the war.
General Wayne's resolutions, as before stated,
were negatived, and a proportion laid on the ta
ble by Mr. Bourne, of Rhode-Island, for taking
Hp the business in a different form.]
MONDAY, February 6
John Francis Mercer, a new member from Ma
ryland (eleifled in the room of Mr. Pinckney, who
had resigned) appeared, was qualified, and took
his feat.
Mr. Bald l in presented a petition from General
Jackson, fetdng forth, that he had not, till a very
late period, received notice of the regulations
eltabliflied by the house, for the trial of the con
tested election for the state of Georgia, and of the
time limited for collecting evidence ; and that he
had agreed with the attorniesof General Wayne
to a prolongation of the term, ih cafe it (hould
meet the approbation of the house—and requeu
ing that the house would agree to a postpone
ment of twenty days.
On morion, resolved, that the prayer of the
said petition be granted.
Mr. Boudinot presented a petition of the tan
ner's of the town of Newark, in the state of New-
Jerfcy, requesting lire interference of Congvefs,
to prevent the inconveniences which persons of
their trade are likely to fuffer from the operation
of Mills, that grind bark for exportation
Ordered to lie on the table.
The House resolved itfelf into a committee of
the whole—Mr. W. Smith in the cliair—and re
sumed the consideration of the Fishery Bill; and
after further debate 011 the motion for striking
oot the firft fettion, rose without coming to a de
cision, reported progress, and had leave to fit
again. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, February 7,
foundry petitions were read and refered to the Secretary of War.
The petition of the Tanners ot Newark, (N. J.) was refered to
a ieleft committee.
The Speaker laid before the House a letter from the Secretary
of the Treasury, enclosing a report from that officer, pursuant to
the orders of the Hbufe of the firil of November last.
This report amoni; other important particulars states, That
The amount hibfcribed of the domettic debiof the Dollars.
United States, principal and interest, ,is
XJnfubfcribed residue of said domestic debt,
This residue consists of variout descriptions of public paper; the
Secretary propotcs that a tu/ther time (houid be allowed to fub
rribc the fame.
Hie a-no'int flibfcribed of the debts of the indi
vidual Stares, is
Trie sum which remains to be fubTcribed agreea
ble to the acl for alfuming the State debts, is 4.427,665.61
To eF-'f 1 ft
frvrral f-.ite
It is propofet
this aifumpi ion,
This report was retereri to the committee of the whole, and
made the order of the day for Monday next.
Mr. Bcnfon, ol the oommmittee appointed for the purpose,
brought m a bill for the apportionment of representatives among
the people of the several states, and making provision for a second
enumeration, &c. which was read the fiiit lime.
In committee of the whole 011 the fifhery bill ; the motion for
(biking out the firft fettion under difcuflion—after further de
birr, the question was put and negatived— 32 —to 26.
The committee rose and reported progrtfs, and then the House
adjourned
KINGSTON (Jamaica) Nov. 29.
With the nioft heart felt sorrow, we commu
nicate to the public, the mournful intelligence,
that the Right Hon. the Earl of Effingham, out
late worthy and much refpe<fted Governor, ex
pired between the hours offive and fix this morn
ing
I Our readers will recolletfi that tlie Lady of
this much esteemed and beloved Nobleman died
not long lince on her paflaee from Jamaica to
New York.]
The 19th regiment, which lately left this
island, was reviewed at Hillfey, fifteen days af
ter its arrival in Great-Britain ; and it was then
found that there were fifty men above the usual
compliment. It is faid,that such a circumdance
had never before occurred in any part of the
Army that had been on a foreign eftabliftiuient ;
and that Captain O'Conner, to whose exertions
it was owing, had been presented to Major-Ge
neral Hyde, who proniifed to mal<e a proper re
presentation to his Majesty.
EXTRACTS FROM AN EUROPEAN PUBLICATION.
NO time ought to be loft in North America to introduce a ge
ral attention to the right inftruftion of youth. Combinations
ought to be formed in every county, province and city lor that
purpose, and small academies, instead of large colleges ought to
be promoted, particularly under the clergymen ; by which means
a brood of learned clergymen will be established on thecontinent,
and every parish will have the feeds of learning carefully sown,
which will produce a virtuous and proiperous people hereafter.
The education of the-female sex ought to be particularly at
tended to, and the fatal error avoided, that a woman's chief excel
lence consists in being able to make a pudding.
On the virtue, diligence, and fufficient learning and sentiment
of women, depend thecolourand texture of the character of their
sons.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
I OBSERVE that in your last Gazette, it is said, that " Lord
Dorchester" was given as a toast bv three of the companies
which met in Quebec to celebrate the Constitution ; it may have
escaped your recolle&ion that Lord Dorchester is Governor General
of Britjh America—and as such is in the Hi ft lift of toasts publilhed
in a formei paper—consequently was not omitted by either of
the companies aflembled on that occasion.
Philadelphia, February 8.
Extrafls from a letter jujl received J rom Cape-Francois, December 16.
" Wc expect 20,000 troops horn France, and true it is they
are much wanted ; the revolted negroes are still in arms, within
a few miles of us, and people of color are murdering the whites all
over the colon} : They have takejn sundry principal places, and
unless troops arrive loon, this country will be ruined ; 253 sugar,
and 1600 coffee works have already been burned, and a number
ot villages.
" A small veflel from Jamaica brings acconnts that the martial
law had been declared there to keep the negroes quiet."
" Since writing the above, the revolted {laves have, by two de
puties, demanded freedom tor their chiefs, and thev will make
peace; this was retufed. A vcflcl of war arrived yesterday with
130 soldiers, and accounts of 4000 being ready to embark.
" A small schooner trom Jamaica brings an account of the
whites having armed the negioes against the mulattoes, and thap
they had killed many of them."
The Brig Hannah, Capt. Latimer, of Philadelphia, arrived at
New-York on the evening of 2d Feb. Accounts from Cape-
Francois fay, the negroes continue burning and destroying the
country. The day before the Hannah failed, viz. Jan. Ift, the
Negroes made a deiperate atiack on Fort Dauphin, the event of
which was not known ; the produce of the Island of every kind
was very scarce, and niiog daily in value. Four hundred troops
had arrived 111 a frigate from France and brought the account of
3,000 more troops icaov for failing in two or three days after,
this frigate was immediately difparched to Port-au-Prince, from
whence the news arrived, that the remains of that town was de
populated. On the 15th Dec. an engagment began at Port-au
"Prince between the Mulattoes and Whites, the event unkown, the
lhipping of the harbor were under an embargo. St. Marks was in
pofTeflion of the Mulattoes who had armed a (hip and several small
vefl'cls which were cruifing'to intercept vefiels going in to Port-au-
Prince, rtiey had taken a French fch. loaded with provisions arid
carried her into St. Marks ; the Capt. in attempting to escape was
shot, a frigate was sent to cruifeoff St. Marks in search of the a
bove mentioned veflels.
The profpeft which the Managers of the Hospital have in view
of extending the building lo provide for a greater number of pa
tients, must be highly acceptable to a charitable and humane peo
ple.
When it is considered, that the inhabitants of the State are more
than double the number they were when the present house was
erected, the piopricty of enlarging it in proportion to the iticreafe
is evidently felt.
On enquiry it will be found, that, at this time, there are in the
Hospital not less than forty lunatic patients, and the apartments
provided for the accommodation of maniacs, will not admit of
more than twenty.
31,797,481. 22
10,616,604. 63
The consequence is, they are either improperly huddled
ther, or dispersed through the wards to the great injury of others,
who are affliffced with acute and dangerous difcafes.
327
of all the debts of the
re rcmai-.istobe provided for 3,903-362. 72
r. ihe report that piovifion should be made for
the next fefiion of Congress.
December 18.
•Jowfvcr inconvenient this m»y Vie, Co the f„& is, it is not men.
t'on»d as any reflection on the gentlemen who iupo intend the in
(titution ; for it is well known, (hey contribute their money, arid
much of their time, to relieve the unhappy objefls of their cjrc
but how ran they effectually do it, unlets apartment* art provided
adequate to the numbers they receive.
it would excite pity in the bread of any fpe#ator, to observe a
c*fe which happened the other day (and cases of that kind are not
uncommon) —A youug lad whose feet were frozen, was in luch a
condition, that the physicians, on confuting, thought it was nted
lul to take off his legs in order to f#ve his life.
The poor boy lay in the long ward near three maniacs confined
in chains, which rattled in h.s hearing, while the cries of murder,
fire, and every alarmingnotfe, was diihirbing his repose day and
night. To relieve a person in this situation, seems to be almolt
impossible ; yet I am told he is likely ro lecover, under the grea*
care of the hospital physicians. A due separation of such patients
is theohjeft in extending the building, and, it is hoped, that all
the charitable citizens ol Pennsylvania will embrace the views of
their benevolent predecefTors, who founded the institution on a
liberal scale, to relieve the miserable lunatic and Tick poor, with
out partiality or preference to any.
Bv uniting together in their public and private stations. to es
pouse the cause of humanity, they could eafxly complete the build
wig, which hath already been founded, and hitherto condudted,
sO much to the honor of Pennfylvaniu.
17,072,334- 39
21,500,000
If it (hould be admitted that our frontier people have been the
aggressors, it only shews that the duty of a just government would
be to offer leparation for the wrong, and to seek peace. Buc
when every offer of peace is reje&ed, as it has been by the Indians,
they become the aggrefTors. [utlice is on the fide of the United
States.
But in time of war, the law of force subsists. lam nor to stand
"'ll and let another put me to death, because I have given him
reason to be angry. In this state did the government find matters.
Mutual injuries and provocations had kindled a predatory war on
the frontiers. The President fought peace, and lought it in vain.
No government, unless administered by Quakers, would lit it ill
and fee its citizens butchered. Congress did what seemed tM> be
right at the time. They had not a war to make, but they haa one
to carry on. They proposed to make it a short It seemed
to be the cheapest way to raise a fttong force and take a strong
post, which probably would bring the Indians to accept peace;
that being all rhai was defied. Had Congress negle&cd the de
fence of the frontiers, would they have avoided complaint? Had
they trufled to sudden inroads of an iiregular force, would not
the complainers have said tfiat 'hey were afraid of putting an end
to the war ? The'man in the fable, who was not allowed to drive
his ass, nor to ride him. nor to fuffer his son to ride him, has dif
fered perplexity for our benefitand inftruftion.—There is no inea
fuie which will suit every body—Government must do it's duty,
and protest the defencelcfs. according to the social compact, and
trust to the good fenle of the citizens for it's juftification.
Government is a trust in the hands of the rulers—Doubtless this
is true ; but it is equally true that a free government is a trust, and
a precious one, in the hands of the people. Each individual con
fides in the reason and good disposition us every other individual,
not only that he wilj obey the laws, but that he will atford ins
voice, and, if necefTary, his strength, to preserve or restore good
order. Without this support of the lovers of order, the govern
ment of this country would not have so much as the (hadow of
force. Its life is in every man's hand, and every good man will
consider this trust as a sacred one. It is such a man's duty, as
well as his interest, to watch for the government which he has as
sisted to establish—his duty, because he has engaged to do it—and
his interest, beraufe a free government is a rare privilege and blet
fing, and, if loft, not rafilv to be recovered. It is besides the only
mound between him and anarchy—a state in which every man
becomes the tyrant of the weak, and the Have ot the strong.
In this free country, therefoie, the people havecaufe to be jealous
of the attempts madeagainft government. It is being jealous for
themselves. It is to be lamented, that so many writers think it
their duty to hold np the government of the United States, and the
men who are entrusted with the administration of it, in such fright
ful colors. Thedefire to gain the praHe'of doing well, is as natu
ral to men in office as to men in a less conspicuous condition o£
life.
Your's, Q.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr.Cent*
Final Setll. and other Certificates 2zf
Indents 14J
Bank Stock—half (hares 106 per cent premium,
A FEW puncheons choice old Jamaica Spirits,
Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis Rum,
Port-au-Prince, Cape-Francois and Surinam Molafles,
Coffee, Cotton, and Pimento,
Hyson and Souchong Tea, of the (irft quality,
Cloves, Caflia, and Boston Chocolate,
Spermacaeti Candles and drained Oil,
Salmon and picked Mackarel,
Boston Beef and Burlington Pork,
RufTia and Boston Canvas,
A few bales excellent Hops,
Myrtle Wax Candles,
St. Martin's Salt,
Madeira Wine, in pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks,
And a few cases old Batavia Arrack,
February 8, 1792.
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the wafers of Elizabeth
River in Virginia, to those of Pafquotank in North-Carolina,
or for conducing the work, will be leceived until the ninth day
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg; Thomas
Newton, jun. and Darnel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; by
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
about sixteen miles; the country through which it will pass, is
swampy, free from flones, and covered with heavy wood. The
Canal is to be thirty-two feet in width, and eight feet at least in
depth, below the furface of the eartb, and capable of being navi
gated in dry seasons, by vessels drawing three teet water.
Good fecuritv will be required of contra&ors; and performs
making application to be employed as managers, mu(k produce
certificates (from chara&ersot refpe£tability) of their qualifications
for a bufmefs of this kind.
Norfolk f January 2t, 1792,
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS,
FUNDED DEBT.
*sf i b w-l
---l5f r
>4/3
UNFUNDED DEBT".
Joseph Anthony, & Son,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Store, No. 5, on Chef nut-Street Wharfs
By order of the President and Directors,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Clerk.
( C P'9 A )
pr. cent.
75 do,
76J do.
no do.
70 do.
[ep 4 w]PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
Febr ua r y B.—Do lla r s 100 Cents each.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7c 8c
Allum, Englilh, pr.c.
Ditto, Roch pr.lb. tie
Alhei, pot, per too, god tood
Pearl, 137 d 140 d
Arrack pr. gall, id 33c 1 d bye
Brandy, common, id 11c
Cogniac id 20c 1 d 30 c
Braziletto, pr. ton. 37^33c $cd
Bricks, pr. M. 4d 5d
Bread, Ihtp, pr. cwt. id 88c 2d
Ditto, pilot 67c
Ditto, small water 36c 40c
Beer, American, in "j ,
bot.pr.doz. bot. incl. j 1 C
pr. bbl. 4d 67c
00 f Oak pr.M feet, qd lod
0 | Merch. pine i6d Iyd
<( Sap, do. %d ,50c 9*/
O I N. Eng. nd
[.Cedar 14d
The above are the Shallop prices ;
for the Yard puces add 1 d 33c
pr. At.
Brimstone rolls pr.cwt. 3d
u- C InfW pr. bbl.
< Boston id 8d
33 ( Country 6d 7d
Butter pr. lb. 16c
——in kegs 10c 12c
2 fSper. pr.lb. 43c
U | Wax 53c 56c
P Myrtle Wax 13c
5 I Mould,tallow 11c
q I Dipped 10c
Cheese, Englifb, pr. lb. 19c
Country 8c 10c
Chocolate 15c
Cinnamon 2d 40c 2d 67c
Cloves id 33c
Coal pr. bulhel 2cc 22c
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10d67c \ id 33c
Coffee pr.lb. 17c 18c
Copperas pr. cwt. 1 d6yc
Cordage jd6jcßd
Cotton pr. lb. 23c 34c
Currants 13c
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece 1 i^33C
Ravens 8d 93c gd 67c
Feathers pr. lb- 40c 44c
Flax 10c
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 85c 90c
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. $d
Common, 4d 74c
Bur middlings,beft 4a 13c
Meal, Indian 2d 67c
—Ship-ftuff pr.cw. iW 1433 c
Fufttc pr. 20d
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe, \d \d33c
Do. pr. gall. 80c
Glue, pr. cwt. 20d zxd 33c
Ginger, whitcrace 7^ 33c
Ditto, common 7"
Ditto, ground pr. Ib. 9c
Ginseng, 2cc 24c
Gunpowder,-can- > , ,
non, pr. q. c. J 0
Ditto, fine glazed 4^
f Wheat pr. bufti gec 93c
Rye 5c c 5¥
ZL Oats pbc
< <( Indian corn 40c 44c
Barley 6or 6oc
Best (belled pr. lb. 3c
Buckwheat per bush. 40c
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, 120 d 146. 67c
American, pr. lb. 4c 5c
Herrings, pr. bbl. 2*/67 c
Hides, raw pr. lb. gc 11 c
Hops 9-jc
Hogftiead hoops, pr. M 15d
Indigo, French lb. \dzoc id23c
—.-Carolina 40c id
Irons, fad pr. ton, 33c
f Cartings pr. cwt,
£ j Bar pr. ton, 82d
O pig 26d 67c
S j Sheet i; 3 rf 33 c
(_ Nail rods g6d
Jjnk, pr. cwt. 4^,5^
Lard, hogs pr. Ib. c,c ice
Lead in pigs pr.c. $d33c ijd6yc
in bars 7d
Lead, white \odlod6yc
red 6d 40c 6d 6 - c
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 17c 20c
Lignum vita: pr. ton, sd6oc 6d
Logwood 24<i
Mace pr. lb. 7^33c 6~c
Mackarel, bed pr. bbl. yd
• f cond quality 6d 6jc
Madder, best pr. lb. 16c 20c
Marble.wrought, pr.f.
Mast spars 33c 67c
MolaiTes pr.jall. 41c 45c
Mustard per. Ih. 87c
Mahogany pr. foot, toe
>Jail>, \od\2d and 20d 10c
Nntmegs pr. lb. 8d
rLinfeed, pr. gall. 50c
| Olive 87c
j Ditto pr. cafe, 2d $cc
, I Best fwetl in )
~ <J flaiks,pr.box 101
w —baskets 12 bottles $d
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
Train 24C27C
t Whale 22c 28c
Porter pr. cask, 5^33c
London,pr. dot. idfoc
Porter, American ) ,
pr.doz. bot.incl. ) 4ciabzc
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
teas,
REr INED SUG.AHS, COFFEE, &SPICES.&e.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail,
®9»
Thwd-Strret-betwernChefntrt and MarketStreetj.
MI QUANTITY
Pitch, pr. bbl \i fee zi
Pork, Burlington, »o<<33c
Lower county yd 33c
Carolina Sd
Peas, Albany pr. bulh. 73c
Pepper, pr. lb. 44c 47c
Pimento 19c 20c
Raisins, best, pr. keg 7d Sd
Ditto pr.jar 3^
Ditto pr. box 4 d
Rice pr. cwt.
Rosin pr. bbl. ■_></67c
f Jamaica pr. gall. 90c
| Antigua 87c
g j Windward 73 c 77c
& S Barbadoes 73c
t Country, N. E.
Salt petre, pr. cwt. 33c
Saffafraa pr. ton 6d 8d
Shot 140^
j f German pr.lb. 9c
W )Englifh, blistered cwtioj
American pr. ton ;
<0 ( Crowley's pr. fag iod6jc
Snake root pr. lb. toe 45c
Soap. Brown 6c
White 8c
Castile u c
Starch y C
Snuff pr. doz. hot. 4d $d 60c
Spermaceti, refined, 48c
Sailcloth, Englifh,~|
No 1, per yard, J
-Boston, No. I. 30c
No. 11. 29 c
R-uflia Iheeting, pr.p. \id
Lump, pr. lb. 18c
cC j Loaf, single refined 25c
Ditto, double do. 33c
j Havannah, white lCc 17c
</a j Ditto, brown, 12c 14c
L Mufco.or.cwt
Spirit s Turpentine p. g. 33c 37c
f Allum pr. bufh.24c2;c
_3 89c
< j Cadiz 23c 24c
00 (Lisbon 25c 27c
Ship build. W. 0.1 . .
frames p. ton, il2 *3 <33
Do. L O. isd 33c i6d6?c
Do. red cedar, p. f. 33c 40c
Shingles, fh. p. M. 2</33c 2d 67
Do. long drefled i2disd 33c
Scantling,heart,
Sap 8d 8d 67c
C Pipe pr. 1000 qod
{ W. O. hogQiead 19 d 33 c
> j R. O. do. lgd 50c
< I Leogan ,6d
in Barrel JO d
I Heading j6« 6 c
Otter, best pr. pic. 4d6yc
Minks 20c 40c
Fox, grey 40c80c
red \d 20c
Martins 24c id
5 Fibers 33c 6 7c
£ Bears 3 d
27c 60c
Musk-rats ncsoc
! Beaver, pr. lb. 67c \d 33c
in hair 20c 30c
Tar,N.Jerfey, 24 ga). p. bbl. 1 d
—Carolina, 32 gall. idrftcidSfc
Turpentine pr. bbl. I,i 67c 2d
. James R. best 3*/ 6oe 73c
-2 inferior 3d
o old 4d 67c
* Rappahannock id 50c 3d
Q J Colo.Maryland
Dark 2d 40c
Long-ltaf id 40c
cq Eaftern-ftiore 2d 2d 93c
O ! Carolina, new 2d jc 3d
H L old do.
( Hvfon pr. lb. gyidzSc
£ I Hyson fk n, 53*- 67c
< i Souchong, 5«93c
I Congo, 43c SCC
LBohea, 34 c 3 6t
Tallow, refined gc
fin pr. box, 67c
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 47c ,53c
Vermillion
VarniOi, 33 c s?c
f Madeira, pr. p.
Lif}»on q6«/ ioo<f
Teneriffe, pr. gal. $ic6oc
w £ a y al 44 c
J Port pr. p. ic6J 67c" i 2od
JT Do. in bottles.pr. dot.
Claret 6d
Sherry pr.gall, got IJ2OC
Malaga 77c 80c
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25c 27c
Whale-bonejlongpr.lb. i3f3oc
Wax.
Whal
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 davs
60 days pr.cent, prem
30 aays 2^)
Ainfterdam, 60 dayi, n
pr. guilder, 39C P
90 days q"8 c n
Government bills, drawn at io
divs per 11 guilders, 4*/44 c
France, 60 davs 80c
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Township of Benfelem, in the County ftf Bucks,
Eiqnire, deceased, pnrfnant to the Directions
of his Jaft Will and Teliament.
OM Tuesday the 27th ot March next will be exposed to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, on the premises—One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Firm, containing about two
hundred and n'nety-nine acres, ficiiate on the liver Delaware; on
which is ere&ed a handsome two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good barn, stables, hay-house,
and other convenient outhoufc 5. A good orchard of the belt kind
of grafted iruit,now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and in good order; and a shad and herring fiftiery before the door.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a fufficicncy of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the post-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above j containing
about two hundred and seven acres, the greatest part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, stables,
and other outhouses, -ywrith a young thriving orchard of the best
grafted fruit, and a shad and herring fiftiery. It has long been a
well accustomed tavern; and the ferry belonging to it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the best profpe&s on the
liver, and are remarkably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about sixty-three acres, situ
ate in the townftiip of Southampton, in the aounty aforefaid ; on
which are erected two log-houses. There is a fmfcll orchard, and
a great fufficiency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lot. containing four acres, situate on the great post-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log dwelling-house, and work-ftiop ad
joining, with a well ot excellent water at the doer : now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame time and place, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Hou(hold-furniture, Farming Utensils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of falc will be, one-third of the purchase
money to be paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments with interest.
JOHN SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBIT, >• Executors.
(eptm 2 7) SAMUEL BENEZET, )
TO BE SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant iituation on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereofrthe sub
scriber now resides; abottt or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvements, which are 9 neat and commodious twtJ story honft*,
compleatly fin I (bed from the cellar to the garret, a kitchen, laun
dry, meat-house, dairy, two story barn, and ice house, all 6ni(hed
in the best manner, together with several other neceffarv outhouses,
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a (killful gardner now em
ployed inputting it in fine order; the land well enclosed with a
post and rail fence ; a well, and springs of excellent water—the
profpefl is equalled by few, and excelled by none in America
its com iguity to Alexandria, the Federal Town, and George.
Town, having a fine and full view of each place, must render it in
a few years of great value, being direaif in a line of communica.
tion from Alexandria to the other two to wns. Should a purchaser
offer before the 15th of February next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indilputable title, clear of all incumbrances, will be made
bv the subscriber. I will also fell with this place, 220 Acr«s of
Wood Land, about 3 miles distant, which will suit well to fop.,
port the above in wood and timber.
Decemier 14, 1791
A LOTTERY,
'"pO raise the sum of £ 750 for the purpose of repairing the
A Prnteftant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Brunfwick,
agreeable to an ast of the Legillaturc of the State of New-Jersey,
patted November 1791.
SC H £
1
}
2
5
10
3°
9°
*675
Prize of
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls,
This Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a deduction of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lotteiy \et
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the mod
liberal lupport.
The drawing w.ll commence on the second Monday in April
or sooner if the Ticket, are disposed of, in the otv of New'
Biunfwick, underiheinfpeftionofCol. John Bayard, Prefideot
t A Pa,^ r ' Efq ' M 'y° rof ,h e city of Ambov;
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Manufaaur
ing Society of New. Jerky.
T ' C j e » S . to be had ° f lhe followin S perfoiu, who are dulv ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given security for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, ( Managers.
VRTk f • A u N T HON Y W. WHITE, $ g
af.er'.h; 7 pr,z ( " k w J' ch "<• not demanded within fix months
,r Cbtch. L ° ,tery ' WiU " e COnf,dC ' ed "1 6™
Nw-Bruvfwicky January <*o, 17g , ».
American Lead Manufa&orv.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co
TTAVH: juftnow opened their L»ad-War ehouse, two doors
h " alnut-ftreet Wharf, adjoining their New Faflorv
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a General assort
memof SHOT of all with SHEET and BAR LFAD the
production of the Mires in Virginia As ,W ** tAU « the
n»mk„„r„ p „i,„ crf Enjlifc workmrn, ,V» ~.,3 "J, b "
X w M acs- '• w: -«.
ASSSri'^c'S-,;:
fcoTeft SZ"' W '" bC thankfU " y »"n,ed Z
N. B. Wanted, indubious, sober, LaVouiin<r Men at.hr said
men"' "nT <mP '° y ' &°° d w •««' ™ Jo.hc,'r,£„
roX7oMh^:;"p ( Tor sofc, ' rtvesa ' ,cc ■«*
" 3', ' * Co "
Pht'iiae phia, Decemter 3, 1791.
328
BALDWIN DADE
M E.
Dollars is 2000
2QO«
1000
500
£00
100
50
SO
4
1000
J 000
1000
1000
*s*°
1800
€700
16000
[ep 3 m]
American Apollo.
SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR THE AMERICAN APO'LO
A new Publication, just commenced in Boston "* '
ARE RECEIVED BY THE EDITOR HEREOF
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION K„
SAMUEL ANDERSON y
Chefnut-S;reet,nextdnortoth>- Bank, No! q-
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & -AUCTIONEER
PURCHASES and SELLS '
PUBLIC DEBT of every description, on Ctmmißn
at the following rates: '
fPCCieamoUntOf a " fa '" " «*'eighth pt,
On ditto at private faleor purchase, tne-halj per cem
On remittances, ditto
Receiving interest at the Lban-Office, one per cent nn .w.
amount of the interest.
Formaking tNaaFers >t p« r tF , n ,r tr
C3T Such perlona as may incline to favor the fubferiber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with
fidelity toi frfratch. Hi« long experience and extenC»e deaKn™'
IB the public ftocka, together with a well eftabliflied oorrtfm*
dence throughout the United Slates, enable him toCMdufihii
.operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57l Rhg.Strut.
O&obtr tg, 17Q1
War Department.
TAN vary t, 1709
TN'FORMATIOV is hereby given to all the military invalid,
A of the United States, that the sums to which they are infilled
for fix months of their annual penlion, tiom the 4th day of Sep.
tember, 1791, and which will become due on the s th day of
March, 1795, will be paid on tHe said day by the Commiffione,,
of the Loans withm the states refpeflively, under the utual rt-fra.
lations, viz. b
Every application for payment mutt be accompanied by the
following v&uthers.
I ft. The certificate given by rtie fete, fpttifyitjg (fiat At vir.
lon poffcffinjr the fame i« in fact an irivalid, and afotrtainiW*t
sum to which as such he i« annually entitled.
sd. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B. camc before me, 6ne of the Jufticesof ihec'ouMyW
intJitftatfeof and tfiade oath that be is rfi.efVftie A.TS.I*
whom the original certificate in hisi>o(fiefUon-w»« given, ofwhfcjr
the following is a copy (the certificate given by the state to be re
cited) That he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the time he
was disabled, and that he now resides in the and coutlty of
and has resided thtre tor the haft years, prtvious'td tfh&fc
resided in
In care an invalid should apdy for payment by 40 attorney, the
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recired, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. B. of county of state of do hereby consti
tute and appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my
behalf of my pension for fix months, as an invalid of the Uni
ted States, from the fourth day of September, one thOuTVnd (even
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and sealed
in the pretence of
WitneiTes.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of t-htir refpe&ive offices, and also ot the
time the invalids died, whose pcnfion they may tlaim.
By command of the President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
$3" The Printers in the refpeftive dates are requested to publish
th." above in their newspapers, for the space of two months.
Annapolis, January 1, 1792.
At a Meeting of the Visitors and Governors of St. John's College,
in the State of Maryland, on Thursday the loth of Novem
ber last,
RESOLVED,
THAT this Board, at the quarterly meeting in May next, pro
ceed to elect a Vice-Principal of St. John's College.
That it be the duty of the Principal and Vice-Principal, to
teach some of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek, certain
parts of the Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural Philoso
phy; and that the departments of the said Principal and Vice-
Principal shall heieafter be ascertained with precision, on consi
derations of their mutual convenience and refpe&ive qualifications.
That the Vice-Principal (hall be entitled to receive, for his ser
vices, a salary of three hundred and fifty pounds, current money,
rating dollars at fjS each, to be paid quarterly.
1 hat persons desirous of, and qualified for the appointment of
Vice-Principal, be, by public advertisement. requested to makeop
plication to Mr. Charles Wlllace, Mr. Charles Cairoll of Carroll
ton, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hanfon, all of the city of Anna-
P°li*- By order of the Board,
JOHN THOMAS, Prefidenf.
N. B. The fundamental Laws of St. John's College prohibit all
preference on account ol religious tenets or opinions.
As the appointment of a Vice-Principal is alone wanted, to
compleat the plan of this rising seminary, the Board will certainly
proceed to the ele&ion at the stated time; provided a person qua
lified, in their judgment, for this important Ration, can be pro
cured. The personal attendance of the candidates, although not
positively required, will beobviouflv proper.
It mav be ufeful to remark, that the salaries of all the profeffoTS
sud teachers have huh'rto been paid with entire punctuality ; and
that the funds of St. John'.s College produce a certain annual in
come, superior to all the appropriations, which have been, or pio
bably will be made.
C-J The Printers of newspapers throughout the United States,
are earnestly requested to insert the above resolve and remarks-—
and 'o repeat the publication as often as convenience will permit.
RUN AWAY from the Subscriber, living in Elfenborough,
nearly opposite Reedy-Island, on the night of the 2Ctb of
November, i 79lf an Apprentice Lad, named JOHN MORRIS:
about 16 years of age; took with him a new le.'t hat, homespun
doth co«t and breeches, corduroy jacket, two pair stockings, two
homclpun (hirts, two pair shoes, and some fummerdeaths. I l ' s
r uppofed he went on board some veflel, as he was seen going ' n a
baticau towards some vefTels that were at the Piers, nrar
Rredy-Ifland.— Whoever takes sard apprentice, and reiutns him
0 hss mart r again, (hail receive Two Dollftrs reward, by
B'F.NIAMIN HQLMF.
TO Ft SOLD THE ITU TOR,
/\ T.A FV r :?;<ri v ingr pr> Ihe of t" c
' i Vr.'.u* Stnu<h ? w in r the Valor of Gold in Dollars and
•">•-.<• »- 1 f ,nd p*"nv'.v eights—according tf> t*
he Sumb; d and Value of Gold-
Ast of C
jlcrrti;?iin