A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 60. HIGH-STREET, PHU A DELPHI A
[No. 27, of Vol. IV.]
Treasury Department,
August 20th, 1792
NOTICE is hereby given, that propof«i!s will
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury, until the 13th day of October next
inclusive, for the fupplv of all rations which may
be required for theufe of th-* United States, from
thefirikday of January to the thirty-fit ft day of
December 1 793, bothdays inclusive, at SpringfHd,
in the State of MafTachufetts, and the Post of Weft-
Point, in the State of New-York.
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of th.
following articles, viy.
One pound ol bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandv or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, f
-r n j c r . > per ioo rations.
Iwo pounds of loap, f 1
One pound of candles. )
The piopofals mav be made for both of thr
above-mentioned Pofts,or separately, for Spring
field and Weft-Point.
Treasury Department,
August, 20th, 1792
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals wil !
be received at the office of the Serretary o ;
the Treasury until the fourth day of October nex:
inclusively, (or the supply of the following articles
of Clothing for the Troops in the service of
the United States viz.
For the INFANTRY and ARTILLERY.
4608 Hats 18460 Shirts
4608 Coats 7956 Pair of Socks
4608 Vests 4608 Blankets
8668 Woolen Overalls 4608 Stocks
9216 Linen Overalls 46C8 Stock Clafp,a
18376 Pair of Shoes 4608 Pair of Buckles
For the CAVALRY.
360 Caps Pair of Stocking?
360 Coats 1 44° Shirts
360 Vests 360 Blankets
360 Pair of Leather 360 Stocks
(Breeches 360 Stock Cla(p r , ; also,
720 Pair of Boots 1200 Rifle Shirts, to be
360 Pair of Spurs (made of RulTia Sheeting.
The above Clothing to be delivered either in
New-York, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the op
lion of the contractor or contractors, on or b.lore
the 15th day of June, 1793.
The proposals may comprise the whole of th
before-mentioned Clothing, or any one or liiori
of thecomponent articles ; to be furnifhed agreea
bly to patterns or specimens, which will be (he wn
at the War Offi e. Go.)d fccurity will be requir
ed for Ihe pun&ual and faithful performance ol
the contrast. The payment v. ill be on the delive
ry of the Clot hi ng, or, if necelfary, such reasona
ble advances will be made the Secretary of the
Treasury shall deem expedient.
War Department,
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United Statts, tha
the sums to which they are intitlcd for fix months
of their annual pension. from the 4th day of Match
179?, and which will become c'ue on the sth dav
of September 1792, will be paid on the laid Hay
by the Commiflioners of the Loans within the
States refpedlively, under the usual regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mull be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
ift. The cerrificatf given bv the state, fpecifying
that the person poffciling the fame is in fact an in
valid, and afcei taming the sum to which as such he
is annually entitled.
An affidavit, agreeably to the following
2d.
form
A. B. came before me, one of the Jaflices of the !
oounty of in the flute of and m ide oath that 1
he is the fame A. B. to whom the origin 1/certificate
in his pofjef/ion was given, of which the following is 1
*t coby (the certificate given b\ the fiate to be recited)
Thjt he ftrved (regiment, corps or vessel) at
the time he was disabled and that he now resides ?>■
the and county of and has refilled
there for the lajl years, previous to which he re
fid d in
In c ,fe an invalid should apply Tot payment by
an attorney, the fa id attorney, hefidjts the cert fi
xate and oath before recited, muit produce a fpr
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the following
form :
I, A R. of county of Jiate of do
hereby confiitute and appoint (. D. of my lawful
sttorney r to receive in my behalf of my pen ft on
for fix months, as an r valid oj the United Utiles
from the fourth das of M rch. one thou fa d seven
hnnired and ninety-t-co and ending the fifth day of
September, ore thouj dfeven hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and f< died
in the pjcleuce ot
Acknowledged bcfo<e me,
A narrations of cxe niofs aril adminiftiator<
*>'.(! eacr»n pa n' ■ vuf. ~-vv.ii .vidtn~e of then
rcfpcftiVc 1 offices, and alio <>t ihe time ihc invalids
flied, whoft j . in y claim.
JSy < otn;U .r>d -i! 'it
Pi Hi "I i' U f'. S' ' s,
H. M\ (>?•'. s ' of War.
Prnfcrs if> ihe • - ,nc» an
•'t to . fn • 1 1 -e iu . wfpa
pen, iyi (he spa.. of two uioq..:«.
THE following authentic Documents refoefting
the Progress which has been made by the prefcnt
G jvrrnmcnt of the United States, towards ex
tingm thing 'he Debts contra&ed underlheformer
Government, will, it is prefumrd, be very ac
ceptable to the People of the United States ; and
it is hoped, thai the different Editors of Newf
papeis will give the Information the general
Circulation which its Importance merits.
I HAVE the honor to enclose an abftraft state
ment of the debt incurred by the late government,
nd which has been paid off from the funds of the
ores nt government, amounting to one million
'• ght hundr.d and forty-five thousand two hun
dred and 1 venieen dollars forty-two cents; but
ih's sum will be encreafed, when the balance of
three hundted and ninety-ieven thousand twentv
'our dollars fileeii cents, remaining to be appro
priated in the farther purchafe'of the public debt,
shall be applied, and which more particularly ap
pears bv the subjoined statement.
With everv sentiment of th-" highest respeCt,
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient,
And most humble servant.
JOSEPH NOURSE, Reg.
Honorable Alexander Hamilton, Esq.
Statement of the Balance which remains to he applied
in the furthei Purchases of the Public Debt.
By the atl paflTed i2fh August, 1790, mak'iig pro
vision for the redu&ion of the Public Debt, fer
tion 2d, it is rnatted, that all such surplus of the
product of the duties ar-.fing from imooft and ,
tonnage to 31ft December, 1790, after f tis<v»ng
the several aporopriations theic in foecfied, shall
be applied to the purchase of the public debt :
Dollars.
306.070
i,687.11>4 81 j
The product of said duties were,
The total appropriations were,
The surplus fund to 31ft Decem-
ber, 1 790,
Dcdu6t the amount paid for dol
lars 1,456,743 38-100 of the
public debt cx'.inguiftied at per
abftraft,
Leaves n balance which remnins
to be applied to the farther pur
chases of the public debt,
ITT.
An abflraft flatement of the sum extin%ui shed of thr
Public Debt, also of the p7\ment from the fundi of
the prefect government of certain claims, which were
incurred by the late government.
Purchases ot the Public Debt : Dollars.
Amount thereot extingmfhed, *>456,743 38
Warrants drawn by the Board of
treasury under the late govern
ment, and which have been dif-
August 6, 1792.
ch.irged in pursuance of the ast
of Congress of 29th Sept. 1 789,
Civil Lilt—for various payments
made upon accounts which ori
ginated under the late govern
ment.
War Department, being for ar
rearages of pay due to sundry
officers of and for p»o
---vifions furnifhed,
Abraham Skinner, late Commis
sary-General of prisoners, for the
board of Am<*rican prisoners of
■war, at Long-Island; appropri
ated by Congiefs, per their ast
parted 12th 1790,
Old accnuntSy viz.
Representatives of Morif.
Decoudray, bal. of pay 2,977 24
Do. Hon. John Lawrens,
his sal jry on an embafly
to (he French Court, 6,017 31
Francis Dana, salary on
an embalTv 10 the Court
of Si. P.ierlbur^,
Benfon, Smith & Parker,
t l >eir expenses attending
thr embarkation of the
Bri'ifh troops at New-
York,
Hi Mod Christian Ma
jcfty, tor military ard
ntdnance (tores fuppfi
ed ihc American (hips
of war in the French
W ft-Indcs,
Ol'ver Polio k, for ba
lance clue him for fup
pli«s at New-Oi Ir-aiis,
with miereft ihereon, in
confo-mity with thr* fe
vr»al acts of Conor's, 108,605
M« fit s.Gardoqui & Son,
bnlance due 'or fup
plics furnilhrd in Spaiq, 502 §6
| rr itrtjjis.
'Mis of cx' han rp which had b' .1
d-awn on fo-r-ign commilfion
erj,, and n »t ikj <1 by the n,
Tim « by Pick? ting, late qua ter
maft r-genrral, being on ac
count of the app'opTianon of
40 000 dollars, palled July t,
l 7y°i
Saturday, September i, 1792.
PHILADELPHIA,
Treasury Department,
Rcgijlcr's 24M Augujl, 1792.
SIR,
Secretary of the Treasury
11.
«>4'° 3
1,000
49,029 68
105
John M'Cord, per ast of
Congress of lft July*
179°,
M'Jockfin,
of
'ch,
Glaobcck, per
ast of 29th September,
1789,
Seih Harding, per ast
nth August, 1790,
Caleb Brtwfter, ditto,
ditto,
Treasury Department,
Aegifler's OJfice, Augujl 23, 1792.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
REPRESENTATIVES in CONGRESS.
THAT liberty depends on government for
its existence and preservation, is a senti
ment recognized by the Constitution of the
United States, by all our State constitution"-,
and by the National Allembly of France on fe
veral occasions ; this is as true in politxs as t
anv principle in the economy of nature ; it is
true in a more extensive sense than some t'leo
rifts appear ready to allow—for while it is af
•erted that government depends on opinion, It
seems to be affuined by certain writers, that if
the public opinion was hoftiie to any form of go
vernment whatever, still liberty might be pre
served : Whereas civil liberty becomes extinct
t'ie moment that government is diflolved—fur
in a state of natu^l',Ji r en ■_th tilone is the supreme
dilator j and life freedoai and property are
held entirely at fuiferance.—Liberty then rot
only depends on government, but the perfec
tion of freedom is in proportion to the Jlrcngth
and permanency of government : A weak go
vernment is always fluctuating, its measures
are perpetually changing—confidence is let a
float—uncertainty fuccecd industry grows
d : 'cou-agcd, property recedes from an active
fp'iera ; distrust, indolence and a long train of
vices public and private succeed, and complete
the public disgrace, and the public m ferv. This
i-njtan exaggerated rep-efentation, it is a
tranfeript from real life ; we are but just ef
caoed from a fitnation which more t'>an juftifies
t'ie defciiption. Government founded on just
Ujid e ]ual principles is an exemplification of rc
pub'icanifm—'uch a government every wife
people, favorably fitirjted, will adopt—and of
w'nic I, so long as they retain a virtuous and
confiltent character, nothing but superior ex
ternal force can dep ive them. The above re
marks are not offered as being new ; thev are
felf-evident principles, which cannot be con
troverted, they are written in the book of ex
perience ; every age, and every nation has
lorne teftnnonv to their immutability: But
what have these ob r ervation- to do with the bu
rners of electing Representatives in Congress ?
Much every way. They however have special
reference to sentiments which a.e advanced bv
foms person?, to e'feft sinister purposes at this
critical and important juncture. It is an old re
mark that mankind are prone to change ; this
propensity gives rife to inuumerable projects in
every puiTuit object and profeflion—for an un
certain good always flatters more than positive
enjoyment. In every free country there are
always to be found men who are, or pretend to
be, dillatisfied with t'eexifting state of things J
hut were itnot for this mutability of disposition,
vhich such persons know how to avail them
elves of, the people, when happy, would remain
so, and forever fruftrate the machination* of
the enemies of their peace and freedom. At
t sis time various artifices are used to deceive
and div di the people—attempts have been
made to depreciate in their estimation, their
own government—and it is made a criterion of
patriotic worth and abilities, to condemn the
majority of those men whom the people have
e.efted in the si ft and second Congress, as a
•;roup of the vilest inifcreaiits that ever fold or
betrayed a country. Let not the free electors
be dece ved, "by their fr u ts ye (hall know
them"—" ;f thou dost well (halt thou not be ac
cents*!,." fai;l Satan to Job. That the general
government has done well, all our senses teftify
— >ur country is renovated—" Liberty has been
:hi ited round the globe"—Tie has here found a
retting plact J but iftheavem.e to public fa
vo* is n\ :■ ■ t.ie -urns of that glorious fabric, the
new conft.tution, and a fubverfionof those mea
sures which it ha '"anftioned ; liberty, difgnft
ed With a fickle age, will <juit t'<e ea rh for
ever. T,e re r a!t of wrhat ha? been said i<-, that
to aa honest mind, and an enl ghtenod under
standing,we ftould -e -juire, as indiipenfable qna
-1 ncations, principles of government consistent
with the pre ervat'nn of f-eedom, which will
tnOolye a decided attachment to the conftitu
ao.i oi tae United States. C.
>338,875 8 4 j
941,85'
397,024151
•57.789 94
25,768 50
7,3°8 40
38,683 13
•5°i54« >4
4-' B S 5°
2,077 89
Grants of Congrejs, viz
1 >3°9 7»
140 26
348 57
Dollars, 1,845,217 42
JOSEPH NOURSE,
HU$, o
[Whole No. 545).
FROM THE PENKSYIVAKIA GAZETTE.
No. I.
Observations on the Letters of " A Farmer,"
Add?ejjrd to the Yeom mr t \ of the United State*.
THEhiltorvof mankmd too frequently >n
(bufts us, that nieafures, intended fur t'ti
public good, and really calculated to produce iliac
deliiaolc end, have been hincftly mifunderltooo,
or wilfully mifreprcfenU'd. Ii is 1101 known, nor
is it important to the freemen o! ihefe flat' <, to
which class the wnier of "The Farmer" be.
longs; but it is a matter of no small cons quence,
lhat the truth or error of his affcrtions and opinions
should be ascertained.
2,118 54
So many of his leafonings are deduced from
examples, said loexift in foreign countries, tliac
ir becomes neceifarv to ix min., whether he has
knowi., or ftaltd, as they really
are.
Holland, he observes in the fourteenth paee, a r .
lords a Unking con rait in f lV or u' jree commerce.
The yeomanry of "the Unied States will judge
how !ar they are to rely on the information of
1h i Farmer," w hen it is made known , o
them, tha 1 F/our, .he principal in cL of their pro
duce, and of out exports, is liable to 'eizuie on
importation into any of thr European ports of
that country, and that (latch, biscuit, . nd <vtr»
ginge.-bread, are piohibited by their re-
Krittions, There is not to hi found, in the h lto.
ryot the world, a country, in which (o many
branch, sos tra ie have been thtown in:o th t hands
of monopolizing companies or corporate s.
The> have an £a/2-India eompanv, a V ej! lnr>n
company, tnclud ng he African trade, a Levant
company, a Swrinam company, 4 Beykhe rompa.
"y> * Adnk coipuiaiton, and b'Jhing companies.
Ihi Dutcn fptci t'ade is the mntt rigid monopoly
in the woi Id. A Dutch merchant is forbitni iv
to participate, dirctlly or indiit£lly, in an\ to
leign Ealt-India Ihtp, or even 10 infuic her, or
hci caign. Then government ha> allowtd a
bounty of ihiriy gu ldets, equal to twelve of our
dollais, to e cli man employed iri theii
veflcis. 1 hey have duties upon txpoits, whicrj
art loibidd nby our tonflnuiion, ai.d the n ft
oppreffne weight of taxa: ton < f any conn ry in
tin ope ; 2.760,0 o petfons, living in a country
• ess than one fouith < t P nnfvlvania, having paid,
1 n 1783. 20,0C0.C00 of do la r s in vaiiousnuiits of
im poitatiou, and in axes and txc fes upon v> oca,
diltilled fpirtts, rnead, tobacco, beer, malt, vine
gar, giound grain or ineal of all kinds, soap, f.,!t 4
buttir, buichcis' n.i at. pou irj. fifh, tur!, toil n.d
wood fuel, coffee and tea, weighing of c-onnliy
pioduce and loieign goods, ftuits, garden Hurt",
cattle, including milch cows, feiriagcs and pa 11...
ges even of emigrants 10 their couuir\ j ~n the
great ehaigcs of the Slate, Itamp duns, on mauu*
lafturing bands, and ferVanii, coaches and hoifs,
livery llables, low 11 lands, whclht r in train, 51 „fs
or vegetables, hatd ware and lead, mainagej, bu
rials, r.ews-papets, magazines and nihei pt nod'-
cal pamphlets, the lales ot goods, certain beq> t its
and devilts t\ will, certain heir-lbips, hoelts,
chimnies and lands, >eftdis lythes. The fucce!»
of the Dutch has not been owing to the atti .il
Irecdom of their commetcf , but to a pa it nt and
laborious induflry, an uutxatnpled fiugalitv, an
obligation to trade ind manulafluie, l.\ real not
then want ol foil to cultivate, a difmveiy of || 1(;
bent fits and secrets ol con mem, fifherics and
manuladtures, when moll oiher nations neglect d
or defptfed them, an ablliuence ftom w r in a
greater degice than an\ oh. r piwer, <iy! mode,
ration in their public 1 xpent es, teligious rolcra
tion, a confi.lerable portion, f irp H units, ot ci
vil liberty, and, above all, by a rigid punctuality
in their dealings, and attention to public order.
Ihey exclude lorcigners from the gieater part of
iheir foreign trade, a<>d rcllrain the rights of the r
citizen-, who do not btcome m 111b is of ihttr
mercantile corp rations and companies, thus re
gulating the bulinels and the fb.ck of their citizens
in an unusual degree. Ha ing vetv In le land™
tax, and modcrat duties onimpoiisand txpoits,
they, of course, drew their tcvenuis principally
from excises 01 con/umf'tion duiies, ftrll uj.on a few
foreign articles, and utur a little time upon tm.d,
meat, drink, lali, luel, and o|her neceflariei and.
conveniences of l.fc.
Regijlcr.
No. IV,
" The FARMER"speaks of the state of tMnge
in France with as little accuracy, as he lhews
in regaid to Holland. He convevs the idea of
that kingdom being under raifcra'jl; cultivation
in refpedt to grain. Mr. Necke., however
allures u«, t at they have not, fur fifty yeurs
past, imported more than one or'two bushel* i/l
the hundred of their consumption, and that 'hey
annually consume above i03,"j00,00j of lui/hel's
ot grain. This is confirmed by a French writ.*?
of eminence, who fays that Fr; nee p . di ces
three and a hali tJines the qusrtit of grailt
which was exported fume years ago fro.,. i_n
glanu, Poland, Dantzic, and the Nurt: , HoUandy
Sicily, Bai bary, ard the 'Archipelago. When
it is remembered that large quantities of grain
werS coniumed in France by their iinmenfe ar
my, their navy, the manufa&urers, and the cul*
tivators of the vine, and that there was a con
iidernbli? exportation to their colonie -, it will
appear, that farming in France cannot be on
so despicable a footing as he would have u« to
believe. He ailerts further, in the 17th page,
that not only farming, but maiiufaflu:es alio,
were in a ruined state, in conlequence of* t: ft
measures of Lewis XIV. and of his Minifler
Lo/ieit. Here again, " The Farme*" is in a
great error ; fur, though it is well known tl at
the Fiench conlume an uncommon proportion
oi their own manufactures, and they hays <,w»and one half times the people to supply at home
which t ie Britilh have, yet is was declared b;.
Mr. Necker,in 1784, that they constantly ship ;
surplus of manufafturc-., amounting to ont
hundred and fifty millions of livres in value pet
annum. These great eftablifhinents of niuiiu
faftures, founded much.more than thofc of En
gland or Holland 011 native produftibns,' are the
work of Ljeri, whom " The Farmer" holds
in so little eltimation. Had tie Miniiier adopt
ed the leading idea in the report of the Secre
tary of the Treasury, that munujafhtref are prin
cipally 10 be de/itedand piomotcd, on account of the de
mand they occafimi Jor the yioduce of the tuitli
France, which respects his memory, would nave
hadreafon to blefs.h s name. All (olbert's er
rors aroTe from too strong a perception ot hail
the truth.
The principal causes of those evils which ex
isted in France before the late revolution were,
'the despotism, the extravagance, and the am
bition of their government, the inordinate di)-
tin&ions of mJn, contempt of the trading and
manufacturing citizen, local imposts and other
commercial errors, the inimeiife wealth of a
clergv, who could afford annual contributions
to the government, from their poflelltons, of
above i 0,000,000 of livres, religious perlUu
tions, a standing army of 212,000 men, ftlie
great expence of the marine, and, above all, a
system of taxation and revenue, through the
meani of the Farmers-General, extortionate,
anddeftruftive of the landed interest andlabori
oas poor.
Britain, which has tried the fyftein of direct
ing the internal induft-r? and flock of her citi
zens, by a<!ts of the legislature, in the most par
ticular detail, has carried manufactures to a
greater height than any ptv" nation, and has
a; much freedom in her go 'i i merit as fbe had
twenty or forty years ago. The evils of her
prcfent flatc are not of a natftre to
produced by the regulation of manufactures. —
Their public debt has been created, by their
efforts to fettle tfeeprefent family on the throne,
by wars on the continent of Europe, by the de
sire of naval superiority, arid, lafllv,
of the whole by a seven years war \yltli the
United State-, to maintain the fupre'«*acy of
their Parliament. But could they discharge
their public debt, eflablilh, on an equal footing,
all chriflian churches, and obtain an equal re
presentation in Parliament, few evils could be
inanifefted to have arisen from the interference
of their legislature with the business and flock
of their citizens.
" The Farmer," tells us, that Americans
are to be taught the leilon of freedom by the
French nation, and to be saved from ruin by
following their example. The people of the
United States, it is presumed, will dispute with
all other nations the honor of setting an illustri
ous example in the field of liberty, civil and re
ligious. In the theory and practice of free go
vernment, they surely are the firlt great mas
ters. Witness, Favctte, and Rochambcdu, and Hi.
Ton (Lauzun) and F)u Forfait, and A J oai//es 1 and the
lamented Gouiion, firfl the pupils of America,
and then the diftinguilhed champions of French
and European liberty. Witness, a truth, of
which no man can doubt, that every citizen of
France, who is not an aristocrat, would rejoice
to fee his country firmly and peaceably fettled
under such a government as that which we
enjoy.
So much for the errors of the leiTaris, which
u The Farmer" has extracted froiif his obser
vations on foreign countries. The . fubjeft of
another paper will be, the mistakes he has made ,
in regard to affairs at home.
ON REPRESENTATIojtI.
Extract from the Herald of Vprmont.
TT were a consummation devoutly to be
J. wished, that the true principle l ; of repre
sentation might be fairly difculfed in public, in
stead of the intereft<; and feelings of individuals.
It is very easy to discern the drift'of pretend
edly patriotic declaimers. Their views are
not public, but personal. X remember, when
the Judges of the County Courts were firft to be
appointed in this State, a certain would-be
Judge, in one of the counties, wasjafked, Who
•would be appointed Judges ?—he rfadilv nomi
nated/our (there were to be five atjfhat time)
he could not name a man qualified for the fifth.
Being alked, If he would not himfelf accept the
appointment? he freely consented—hut the
people did not approve the nomination. This
fame man would, 110 doubt, have thought, that
many of those who were nominated, were fit for
Governors—Generals—any thing, which did not
interfere with his present ambition."
EXTRACT.
" \J OTHING ought to be more weighed
i\ than the nature oi" books recommended
by public authority, So recommended, they
soon form tie character of the age. Uncertain
indeed is the efficacy, limited indeed is the ex
tent of a vi/tuous institution. But if educa
tion takes in vict as any part of its fvftem, there
is no doubt but that it will opc ite with abun
dant energy, and to an extent indefinite. Tie
magistrate, who in favor of freedom thinks
hiiAfelf obliged to fuffer all forts of publications
is under a ftrifter duty than any other, well to
conllder what fort of writers he (hall authorize
and (hall recommend by the strongest of all sanc
tions, that is, by the public honors and rewards.
He ought to be cautious how lie recommends
authors of mixed or ambiguous morality. He
ought to be fearful of putting into the hands of
youth writers indulgent to the peculiarities of
their own complexion, left they fhou'.d teach the
humours of the profeffor, rather than the prin
ciples of the ft ie ice. He ought, above all, to
be cautions in recommending ativ writer win
has carried marks of a deranged umlerftanding;
for where there is no found rearon, there car
be no real virtue ; ayd njadnefs is ever vicious
i and malignant."
BRUSSELS, July 12.
TNTELLIGKNCE lias been itceived
L by this government, that early
yesterday morning a bodyof Aull li an»,
consisting of about 5000 men, attack j
ed a French corps, commanded by i
M. Gouvion, who were encamped 1
near a finall town called Herfill), di
rec r tly in the line to Mons, and afier
defti oying all the batteries, carried
the camp and obliged the French to
shelter thetnfelves in Maubeuge. Ihe
loss on the fide of"the latter wasffaitd t
to be 200 men, and that of the Mill ri
ans only 30. .
A letter from Rochelle, datSßPia
2d inftanr, Hates, that the preceding!
Monday was the day fixed on by the)
Proteltants, the Jacobins, and tJnl
conltituiional prieits, to drive fronj
that place all the priests w ho had nofl
consented to take the oaths. Jn tii//
morning two battalions of Nation
Guards arrived, and every thing r<
mained pretty quiet till three o'clock,
when a mob afl'embled in the Rue des
Auguftins- By degrees the peoplr
became inflamed, and at length, arm
ed with sabres, allsiled the church.
Tliofe within fide, endeavoring to
fly, were severely handled, and two,
men were trod to dea h. ' They af
terwards went to the htiilfe of M.
Triaioulle, whom they would have
killed, had it not been for the May
or's interposition.
The Municipality formed a decree,
by which it was ordered, that every
priest who had not taken the oaths,
(hould leave the department in three
days, or to be driven from thence by
public force.
PROCLAMATION.
By order of his Koyal the
Duke tie Saxe-Teft hen, Generalifinno
of the Aufti ian armies in the Low
Countries, it is enjoined, that all
thole who have delerted from the
laid armies, and all thole who have
emigrated with a view to join the ar
my oi Bethnne Charoft, or any troops
armed againlt the houle of Austria—
if found in uniforms, or dtefled like
citizens with arms in their hai ds, 01
among the enemy, will he irea'ed as
rebels and traitors to iheir country,
and punilhed 011 ihe i'pot, without a
ny other trial than ihat'called jland
recht, by the si (t regiment or corps
by whom they (hall be discovered-
By 01 <ler,
(Signed) PKRtNT, Ac
NATIONAL A£SEMB
A FREEMAN.
June 13.
ACTION WITH THE JUST RUNS.
LETTER [ROM LA KAYETTE TO THE
Entrenchsd Cawp at Matibmge,June 11
" 1 NOW fit clown, Sir, to fend
you an account of the affair neai
Maubeuge. The day before yeltei
day, our Light Troops had a Ikirmifli
with those of the Enemy, in which
the latter loft three men, and a few
of both fides were wounded.
" The Enemy attacked my advanc
ed guard this morning, which they
doubtlels hoped to ftirprize ; but M.
Gouvion, who was informed of tfeeii
intentions in good time, sent cff the
baggage to Maubeuge, and began a
Ikii mifli during his retreat, in which
his infantry was continually cover
ed with hedges, and (he Enemy's co
lnmns luffeted greatly from our Ar
tillery, and particularly from four
pieces d'Artillerie, a Cheval, under
Captain Barrois.
The 3 cl and iith regiments of
Chaflenrs, and the 2d of Huflars, ma
moeuvred molt admirably ; the latter
cut up a detachment of Hulans which
advanced againftit.
A violent storm, that prevented
us from hearing the signal guns, re
tarded our knowledge ot the artack
The moment intelligence of it was
received in our camp, a column of
infantry under M. Lignevilie, and l
another of cavalry, under M. Tracy
were conducted by M. Narbonne to
wards the enemy's left flank, while
t . e ' e,e, " ve - led on by M. Mauberp
advanced to the succour of the ad
vanced guard.
-1 immediately ordered nine
jtioops to advance, and the enen.y,
Foreign Affairs.
PARIS, J tine 13
MINISTER AT WAR
FOURTH YEAR OF LI B f 11 T Y
106
after abandoning the field of battle
tu us, and alio pare of iheir killed
and wounded, retreated to thcr for-
mer cainj-
" We marched upwards of a league
jeyond the liaiion formerly occupied
by the advanced guard, which relum
ed iii former polls.
" 1 flioulc) have felicitated myfelf
upon the little fuccels accruing from
this attack, if it hail not by a cruel
fatality beet) the means of snatching
from his country one of the belt ot
citizens, from the army one ot the
molt ufeful officers, and from myfelf
a friend ofnolefsthan IJ years Hand
ing. 1 mean M. Gouvioii, whole vir
tuous life was terminated by a (hot
from a cannon. He is bewailed by
the soldiers, by all the army, and in
l.teed by every body conscious of the
value of puie patriotism, an unalter
able faith, and the happy union of
coinage and abilities. 1 speak not
of my personal chagrin oti this occa
lion ; my friends will pity me.
" The loft of two Lieutenant Co
•lonels of the department oftoie d'Or,
alio call for my ju(l regret ; one was
>-1. Cazotte, aged 7J, who had seen
50 years of service ; he was killed in
(he late affair, while alfilting M. Gou
vion to save a dismounted cannon.
" File remainder of our luli ton
fills in 25 wounded ; the number of
killed is inconsiderable. The enemy
has fuffered much more considerably
than us. We have made some pri
lotters, and I have received no ac
count of any being taken 011 our fide.
*' This is the mod exacfl relation
that I am able to tranfuiit you, pre
vious to the receipt of official and
authentic accounts.
(Signed) " La FAYETTE.
" General of the Army."
The A trembly initamly ordered
the committee of public inftriitfiou
to bring in a report, in what manner
the efteeni and gratitude of the nati
on might be tellified towards the me
mory of M. Gouvion.
DUNKIRK, June 16
The little army which was encamp
ed in this neighbourhood, confining
of jooo men, composed nearly of an
etjual number of regular troops and
national guards, under the command
of .Gen. Carl, and General Mouronen
feeond, marched this morning on the
Triad towards Lisle, attended by a
train of artillery, for the declared
pUrpose of joining the Grand Army
under the command of Gen'rls Luclt-
r and La Fayette
/ [ he Citizens of Dunkirk had been
previously fuminoned, and ordered
ro furnifh all their horses for the use
Gen
of the artillery and baggage waggons,
with alacrity was accordingly
done : Ample rellitution however
will be made by the Nation, to every
individual who fultains any lols or
damage by the accommodation.
Much cannot be said in favor of
lie discipline of the Troops, or their
military afpetff ; but they declare
that their deficiencies in these re
fpecfts (hall be made up by personal
valor.
It was apprehended, that the army
of Dunkirk was destined for the cap
ture ofOHend ; but (uch an attempt
*ou 1 d have only proved the want of
ifi formation, or a frivolous gasconade,
as half a dozen men, with a single
cannon, would obtain the surrender
of that town : all the military stores
and other properly lately there, be
longing to the Auflrian government,
having been removed, and the place
consigned to whatever military force
might chufe to attack it. No opposi
tion-, therefore, would be attempted,
farther than (hutting the gates, and
openin g them again,wii h a surrender
of the keys,on their beingdenianded.
The port is now free to traders of
every nation, and the property of
ihe merchants and individuals is and
will be held sacred. The fact is, ilie
French do not think that place worth
taking, which the Auftrians do not
think worth defending.
The maritime commerce of each
country will meet with equal protec
tion—Some French frigates and (hips
of war are Rationed off Ollend, and
other (hips of force are cruising in
lie Roads, to prevent piratical de
iiredations, ratherthan from any ap
urehenfioiis of national hostilities by
sea.
LONDON, Junei ,
fi* ,lt 'cnian who arrived ;
yellei day afternoon f',„ m
mentions, that the Austrian « 1
the amount of i 7 0 00 m* ' 1
command of Geneial He"' r" ' ,h<
niavthed
lall, and General LuckneiC"
was known to be , n J
lame tune • tlnr »•; 1
was heard at Oltend on
that just on the departure of, h,'l
«• «>'« Greffier h„l receivld
Press from the Governor of Won!"
with aii account of the A ulli ia„s hav'
ing taken ouneen pieces of
and two howuzer, j„ thil aC(] '
I,
1 he Polirti army is encamped in
feve.al d.v.fions upon the frontier,
which the king was expected to vifi[
about the beginning of this month.
The head quarters of Prince Poni a .
towlki, his Majelly's nepliew, are
near Winicka ; General Wieloher
fki is ported with yooomen near Tulc.
zyn ; and General Kofcinfko protect
the road towards Kiovic.
The Puiffian army has entered the
territory of the Republic in several
columns, each of which is accompani
ed by forue of the discontented No
bleflc. Upon their fiift entrance,a
detachment of about 800 men fell up.
on one of the Polish advanced polls
near Tolozyu, confining only of 80
men, who, after a vigorous defence,,
rejoined their main body?, carrying
off their dead and wounded. The
following is a letter from tlie head
quarters of Prince PoniatoWiki.
MAY 24.
" We have jnft received advice
from Lieut. Col. Gaachowlki, that the
enemy's Cofl'aks have been repulled
by our Patroles, near Czerniejowic,
and pursued as far as Serbow, where
was found a large body ofßulTian in
fantry, and 12 cannon. Upon per
ceiving this foperiority, our troops
retired in good order, but wereo
bliged to abandon to a thoufandCof
facks, who pursued thein, a quantity
of ammunition, which they had tak
en from .< he enemy."
The Court of Vienna is faitl at
length to have granced permission to
the French Emigrants to embody
tliemfelves against their country,and
to iiave advanced them a Aim of mo
ney for that purpose, 011 condition of
submitting their military operations
to the direction of the Austrian Com
mander in Chief.
During the march of La Fayette I
nvmy, two of the private soldiers at
tempted to excite a mutiny, by crying
out that they were betrayed, and re
quiring to know whither they were
marching. They wereinftantly lei*
ed, tried by a drum-head Court-Mar
tial, condemned, and executed in
the fight of the army. _
There have been frequent (kirmiffl
es between the Coflacks and the rj
lift National cavalry ; but the Rullj
an forces have not advanced oil ei
ther fide, more than a league into
the territory of the Republic- , 5
Polilh army'was expedled to have lti
complete number, an hundred t on
fand men on the of May.
The King of Prussia has a ferwM
dilute with the circle of Francoflia,
who not only persist in their i> eu ■"
lity towards France, bat wil
permit the paflage oftworepmi
of Prnflian hussars through their
millions.
June 31.
The Hungarian Nation ha« offer
ed ro the King twenty five
of florins, to contribute to
pences of the war declared b) •
The Dnke_ of Brnnfvvick, '^
Commander in Chief of the K
army, is to go to Cob rfCep
vfry thing is prepared (
tion, at the laiert the 2 .V'U
The combined armies, it'« H
will be ready to aJi by ti
that month. . , bnrri-
Monday fe'nnight a viol fi|ni .
cane happened at Bj'-nnng |ht
lar to one which liapp e which
fame place this time two y p ar k (
blew across Packington, [htn ,
and tore up 2{ e' mS > „"'!" U iiknf ar, 5 r
50 feet high, and 1 1 flde|C arrjing
two feet in diamete , al id
away large benches fr«m
other trees.A report has been very current this
morning, that a meeting took place
lalt night between Lord Lauderdale
and General Arnold, in which the
latter was killed ; but we have not
yet been able to learn' to wh it degree
of credit this rumour is entitled.
A letter from Straiburg, by this
day's mail, slates that Francis, King
of Hungary, died of an hemorrhage
by which he had been some time at
tacked—This, however, wants con
formation.
The juncftion of the two armies of
La Fayette and Luckner, places the
former as second in command, Luck
ner holding the superior rank oi
Marefchal.
The accounts from Marefchal Luck
ner's camp ot the ijth in It. make no
mention of an attack by the Aultri
ans. The report of an engagement
and a defeat, said to have come by
the way of Oitend,/ probably relates
to the attack on M. La Fayette's ad
vanced guard, of which we have giv
en the particulars.
La Fayette does himfelf much ho
nor by the handlome manner in which
he ("peaks of Monl'. Gouvion. As far
as this General's character has hi
therto unfolded itfelf, there is a de
gree of sincerity rarely to be met in
men that are leaders in great and pub
lic events. Through all the I'cenes
of the Revolution, La Fayette was
the only man who maintained con
spicuously on every occalion the firm
nefs of a patriot, and the gallantry
of a gentleman.
The city of Antwerp flill persists
in its opposition to the government ot
the House of Austria.
The martial law lately proclaimed,
and rigorously enforced there, has
tended not a little to the num
ber of the difaffe«sted. : :
The King of Poland ' thus affection
ately concludes his address to his ar
my—" Do not fuffer a traitor among
you (should any unfortunately be
found) and the fafety of your coun
try will be yourown work. In every
danger remember and think of your
dear country; our life is the Jeaft
thing that we can offer her. Your
common father, your King, and your
commander, gives you for ever this
word of command—Children ! Let us
live free and refpedted, or die with
honor!"
Prince Henry of Prufiia isfuppofed
not much to approve the concert with
.Austria againlt France. It is certain
that he was not consulted on for ming
it. He is gone lately to Dresden to
converse with the Elector of Saxony
on the affairs of Poland.
The Empress of Ruflia has a great
regard for the welfare of the Poles ;
and because they cannot swallow hap
piness fact enough, (he is determined
to pulh it into their H omachs with the
bayonet ! What a good and disinter
ested creature {he must be !
A very capital failure has happen
ed at Paris within tliefe few days.—
The lioufe of Touton and Ravel has
flopped payment for 24 million of li
vres [about 1 million llerling] which
will affeift many houses both 111 Lon
don and Paris.
On EUEl'ttncering EntertainmcHts,
An Ext r act —Jrom the Maryland Herald.
THE day for the hulband a
broad, too frequently produces a day of
falling for the poor wife and children at home.
But perhaps it is the honor of the thing that is
so dazzling and seducing : the honor of dining
in company with Mr. A. drinking a glass ot
wine with Mr. B. or a glass of grog with Mr.
C. is notto be refilled. Alas, my good friends,
if you did but know the real sentiments of thele
fountains of honor—did you but know how they
laugh in private simple credulity—how
would you despise yourselves and them for this
familiarity of a moment, which difgraccs you
both ? If these honorable gentlemen are really
so fond of your company, how comes it tUat
you receive no invitation, to dine with them
but on the eve of an election ? Do you expect
to receive any after the si ft of O<stober ? You
know you are not to look for them. Be always
suspicious of the man, who oppreltes you with
the warmth of his friendfhip and civilities in
July ; but who, if he meets you in November,
is cool as the season. But to be more serious.
There is scarcely I believe a single man amongst
you so uninformed as not to know, that this
country is, or at least' ought to be, governed by
laws made by the Repreiientatives of the People,
chosen by their free and independent votes.
is on this freedom of election alone that the
people can depend for any iecurity for their
lives, their property, and their civil and reli
gious liberties. Let this freedom of election be
once violated by bribery, by corruption, by vio
lence, or by any other means, and you are leit
without any security at all.
Domestic .Articles.
NEW- HAMPSHIRE, August 18,
From the eastward we are inforhied, that
laud is daily iucrjuting in value—the town of
Vifcallet that a few years since was a d-fert,
is now become a flourilhing mercantile town,
people from all quarters are flocking thither to
lettle, which has so enhanced the price of house'
lots tnat 230 dollars is now the pi ice for a lot
which not long lince could be purchased for
Should the province of Maine be separated from
MalTachufetts and be made a State by itlclf,
it is more than probable \v lfcaliet will be the
feat of government.
RUTLAND (Vermont) Augull 20.
On Thursday night the 9th inft. the dwelling
liou e of Mr. Alexander Patterfon, of Pittsford,
was consumed by fire —It leems that Mr. Pat
teri'on had been milling several weeks, l'uppofed
to have fled 011 account of some threats he had
receivectf. om his wife, by which he thought his
life was in danger. On the evening before the
fire, Mrs. Patterfon told her children that Ihe
was going to a neighbour's house, not to return
that night—her pewter, See. was observed by a
neighboring woman to be packed up the day be
fore—fome time in the night the lire alarmed a
neighbor, who reached the house just as the
children escaped out of the door—the house was
too far consumed to render any attempts to
save it eifeftual—a day or two after, as some
children were learchingfor pewter amongst the
rubbilh, just under where the bed flood, they
discovered a number of bones, whicH 011 exair.i
nation, were adjudged to be human bones, the
Ikull, teeth, &:c. remaining in their natural
form. On information of this, a Jury of inquest
was summoned—in the mean time, it is fup
j pofccl that .Mrs. P. went and secreted the ikull,
teeth, &c. and broke the left of trie bones into
! many small pieces, in order to render all fut ther
j enquiries fruitlefs. It was the opinign of the
Jury, that the bones were human bones, and
that the murder had been committed there,but
by whom could r.ot be alcertained Suspicions
I r.re strong against Mrs. P. who has been exa
! mined ; but God alone can develope the hidden
fee;.# of iniquity.
Extraß of a letter from the Commanding Cjjicer at
Bennington, to a gentleman in IVindfor, dated gt/i
Auguji, 1792.
" Lalt Tuesday night a very unfortunata ac
cident happened in my company. I have in
confinement under quarter guard, four delet
ers Irom the army, whom my noncommiflioned
oilicers have taken lurking in this state ; over
these prisoners 1 keep two centinels by night—
one of whom has orders, after beating of tattoo,
to hail and bring too every man who lhould be
seen on tin parade, and to demand of him a
counterlign, or an account of himfelf—(This
order is in consequence of the men's having,
some of them, too frequently left their barracks
in the night, and practiced abuse upon the citi
zens) —About one o'clock at night a private
lbldier, by name, WALSH, was challenged by
the centincl, and ordered to advance and give
the counterlign—Walfh being intoxicated, stag
gered up to the centincl, and ottering resistance,
the centinel attested to cock his piece, in hope
of terrifying him to order; unfortunately his
thumb flipped from the cock; the piece dis
charged its contents through the heart of the
hapless Walfli: He died without a gasp I Yes
terday an inquest fat on his body, and gave
de&th.—Wallhwasan Iriftiman
of about 45 years—veryfubjeft to intoxication.
\V ORG ESTER, August 23.
Extrafi of a Utter Jrom a patriotic and diflinguifhd
literary charafler f near London, to his correjpon
dent in the State oj New-Hampfliire, dated Lay 2,
1792.
44 It gives me the most sincere pleasure jo
hear, as I frequently do, of the growing pros
perity of the United States. Long may that pros
perity continue ; and long may your refpe&a
ble seminary of learning, with every similar in
stitution, in North America, continue to par
ticipate in the general welfare of that country,
to which I have ever been a most ardent well
wisher.
44 Let me not close this letter without con
gra ulating you, as a friend to the best interests
of mankind, on the great ilep that has been ta
ken in France towards the diffusion of general
freedom over every habitable part of the globe.
May no unfortunate turn of affairs, no injuriou
blight, prevent this glorious blofTom of the sa
cred tree of liberty from perfe&ing its choicest
fruit !
44 It pains me, however, to add, that I am
not without some apprehensions, from the pow
erful union of the ueigh'ooring Despots, who are
breathing out threatcnings and agajnft a
brave people, who are ltruggling for the main
tenance of those bleilings, to which all men
have had an undoubted natural, and unalienable
right : —ln alTerting which, America set them
so noble an example l ,f
NORWICH, August 23.
We learn that the fix Indians (lately men
tioned in this paper) who were in & about Wal
pole, in pursuit of a Mr. Brown, have at last fa
tisfied their vindictive pailion by killing him ;
in the contest however, Mr. Brown dispatched
two of them.
Perhaps no war was ever carried on before
the present between France andGermany,where
the base practice of privateering was not sanc
tioned by Law—This is one refinemeut in po
litics, to be attributed to the political reforma
tion which appears to be illuminating the world.
SPRINGFIELD, (MafT.) August 22.
FEMALE EXERTION.
u On the 3d inft. about 12 o'clock in the day,
the dwelling bouie of Mr. Zachariah Barber, ol
Warwick, was difcoved by a small child to be
on fire—who fe r ' " fall into the cham-
107
ber fioin the roof, through v. : c
soon gave the alarm ; 110 help being near, ex
cept IVI-rs-barter dna a number of imall chi.
drcn, the eldest of whom Hie inftantlydllpatched
to cail Mr. liarber and a hired man, wlio were
half a mile diiiaut : It being very dry am
windy, the fire raged with great fury, and lliui
have coitfumed the hou'.e with a great part 01
its contents, had it not been for the extraordi
nary vigilance of the woman, who drew from a
well near 40 feet deep, almoltjo pails of water,
part of which (he applied to wet the chamber
floor, after removing all combuitibles, and part
flie applied with great dexterity to the roof;
having 110 ladder, lhe was obliged to ascend
the roof of a finall wood house, from thence,
with great difficulty, to the roof that was in
flames. She ascended this precipice a number of
times, carrying each time a full pail of water
in her hand ; in this manner lhe contested the
merci.'efs element, in the 1110 ft fpi-.ited manner,
for tiie of half an hour, when her hus
band and mail arrived, who by their united ex
ertions happily extinguilhed the lire in a Ihort
■cility would ever pic /cat."
It is lomewhat remarkabl# that the piSn
iple on whicn. this wile resolution is grounded,
s to be found in a fuggeftiou of rue Secretary
f the Treasury to Congief , in his lirit report
:onc«rning tne public debt, in tiiele words: —
" Persuaded as tiie Secretary is,that the pro
ier funding of the prelent debt will reude. it a
uttional bieliuig i 'Vtt he is Jo Jur from acceding
:o the poiition, in t;ie latitude in wii ch it is
iometimes laid dowr, that " public debts are
jublic benefits" —a poiition inviting to prodigality
and liable to dangerous at-uje —that lie ardently
willies to fee it imoipuiated us afundamental maxim
in ihcf jten ojpublic credit of tne United States,
that the creation oj debt Jhould always be accompanied
with the means cj extinguijhment* This lie lejjai ds
as the true Jecret Jo' rendering public credit immoital.
And he piefumes it is dm.cult to couceive a ii
tuation, in which there may not be an adhe
rence to the maxim. At least he /eels an un*
feignedfohcttudi, that this may be attempted by the
United States—and that they may commence their
measures for the eitabliihnieiit of credit, rxilti
the observance oj it."
It is itill more remarkable, that a paflage
which contains a principle 10 hoinle to the per-
—petuation of public debt—which gives :u cm-
Abjlratl of further European Intelligence. phatical a dissent to the proportion as a general
The Priiffian Cabinet has formally engaged one, " that public debts are public blehings
o defend the prelent Constitution of Holland, lliould have brought a charge upon tne Secretary
to guard it against the innovating spirit of the of the Treasury of being the advocate of that
French, and to maintain the dignity of the Stadt-! very doctrine. Soproi eis the ipirit ot ladtiou
lolder. —There is said to be a falling off on the to conveit even what is praile-worthy, into
art of Pruflia, in respeCt to prosecuting the topics ol accuiation ! So reaoy aie our politi
rar-of the combined courts against Fiance — cal gnomes to inilieprelent and malign thole
Phe Prussian army is, however, in motion.— whom they envy, and therefore hate.
l"he Elector of Bavaria has given up his neu- | * j/, e and unprincipledfomenters of dijeori
time.
Philadelphia, Sept. 1.
trality, and has joined the league against France.
The National Allbmbly have decreed—That
there shall be railed on the site of the Eaftile, a
Square, to be named the Square of Libert)—a
column is also to be railed, supporting the Sta
tue of Liberty—the firft Itone to be laid 011 the
14th julv next—by a deputation from the Na
tional AiTembly. All persons under 60 years of
age, are to be enrolled for military duty, except
pub ic functionaries, &c.
The plague was in the city of Tunis the be
ginning of the Summer—the necessary precau
tions were taken at Marseilles to prevent its
introduction into that city.
The Chevalier D'Eon has sent a request to
the National M'einbly, deliringto be employed
in the French armies. Her letter was received
with applause, and was referred to the Military
Committee,
The Queen of Portugal continues ill—Dr.
Willis fays she turns out to be themoft obstinate
fubjeft lie ever had under his care.
The Pittsburgh Gazette of lad Saturday, con
tarns some information which confirms the ac
count already publifned of the Indians having
murdered the flags (ent to treat with them.
C4pt. Mills, with a deiachment of 300 men, and
Cppt. Smith with a company fiom Virginia, art
arrived at Pittsburgh.
At a meeting of sundry inhabitants of the Wes
tern Counties at Pit'fburgh, a number o! Rcfolu
tions were passed sgainft the Law of the Union,
laying a duty on Spirits diftillcd within the Uni
ted States.
Two players from the Theatre Royal, Exeter,
are drrived at New-Yoik, in the Brig Providcucc,
Capt. Gilchiift.
Some valuable additions have lately been made
to Mr. Pealc's Museum, which tender it more and
more an object of attention to the curious.
The last Anniversary of Independence was
celebrated at Madeira by our Consul, Mr. Pin-
T'ARi> —at whose house a number of American
Captains of vefTels, and other gentlemen, dined
on occasion ; \yhen a variety of feiitimenta!
and patriotic toads were drank.
The completion of the third century since
the difcpvery of America, by Christopher
Columbus, will he celebrated by the Histori
cal Society, on Tuesday the 23d day of t)fto
ber next, at Boston ; when a Discourse, suited
to the occasion, will be delivered by the Rev.
Jesemy Belknap, D. D. at the Meeting house
in'Brattle-ltreet, he being elected by the Society
for that purpose.
The particulars of the siege of Seringapatam,
and surrender of Tippoo Saib, are published in
the St. Chriflopher's Gazette—it contains ex
tracts from the Madras papers to the firft of
March. There can be no doubt of the authen
ticity of the news : an abftraist of which, shall
be given in our next. —Tom Thome has doubtless
anticipated the feelings of the Britilh Minister
on this occasion—
I cannot txprcji how delighted 1 am,
To know at have taken Sermgapat m.
His Excellency M. de Clugny, Governor of
Martinique, is dead—his loss is greatly regret
ted by the Colony. M. d'Arrot succeeds to the
command.
The buildings of the Manufactory at Pater
fon, New-Jersey, and the dwelling-houses for
the accommodation of the workmen and artists,
are going on rapidly; and it is expected, from
the spirited exertions o the workmen employ
ed, that the whole will be compleated before the
winter sets in.
The Poles having committed the concluding
of the war to the King—his Majesty, and the
aflembled States, have publiflied an animated
and patriotic address to the nation, which con
cludes with this devout supplication to Heaven.
" A faithful king ar.d nation implore thy aflift
ance, and will praise in hymns of gratitude thy
providence and mercy."
The British House of Commons, in their ad
tlrefs to the Kin'r, at the prorogation of the 15th
Tu: e last, inform him, among other things—
" That they had made provifior for prevent
ing the future pirmanent encreafe of the national
* .
ji) , •>;
viiig felb'/cd that cn all future loans
fit eutijkuuld be jo it ad for th.ur dijcuur^e t wiiich ope
i atioa it was the liopc ot tiie Commons no ne-
t had burnt,
ire guilty oj Hie mojl barejaced attempts to deceive the
Vcopu, publijhwg jatjhuods which, they mcauj/ioutd
lave a pejtjerous mJLuence. — In a late aadrej* to the
bubiic, Jisned H my which JirJi appeared in a
Virginia paper, ana has JinceOeen puunjhed in ttiisaty,
we find thejollovcwg candid expoption oj tms maxim
oj the Secretary, viz. " 1J we arc to conclude mjuturc
Jrom the pajl, JJear toe jhallbeled on to experience the
favorite and cti?bolicd maxim, that the exigencies oj
uld be aluiux< - 'to her rejources."—
government jhould be always equal to her ,
Such perverjion oj a J ntiment t Jo plain und eujy to b<
underjtood. and which Conveys an opinionjo totally op
pofite, needs no comment. —Say, coula there be any jham
lejt to blujh ?
In the fame address it is infinvaled, thut the impojl
duty on nails hai rajedthe priceJrom loj.toi 2\J. perM.
|N. B. The duty on nails is one cent per and /
Of all games that of ruling is the most be
witching ; the lookers on are not the lealt in
terdict'.—they feel all the palftons of thole who
play % t he hand, belides a burning impatience to
take their places. Accordingly experience a£id
our knowledge of men, will convince us that
power is the real object of all parties, and li*
berty the pretence of all uniucceisful ones -
America in the infancy of its government dis
plays the monster, party, arrived to its lull
growth. Many who hear of a party combined
for the purpose of seizing the power of govern
ment, feein furpriled at the tact. Thole who
turn to other countries and to human nature
for light, would be more furpriled if it were
not so ; the style of a cei tain Gazette affords
the molt undoubted evidence. Happily for the
cause of good order, this fattion labors to little
purpose ; the state of things is against then:—
lfcill however, they ft:ck to their work J with
them, a good law was paffcd to effedt ionie bad
end. Public faith is kept to produce a corrupt
influence : Manufactures are favored by pro
tecting duties to promote the schemes of op
preflion, and of the Southern interest ; the Foit-
Office is made auxiliary to the circulation ©f
the newspapers, for the fake of flopping infor
mation, and keeping the people ip ignorance.
There is 110 land tax—but tlie landholders are
ruined by a government that does not touch
them with its little finger. The bank, it is
true, is favorable to trade, to manufactures
and to the collection of the revenue—and mo
ney is become more plenty ; but all this, is a
wicked plot to raile up a moiued influence, and
to promote lpeculation. Nothing can be more
provoking to a party, than the luccefs of the
measures of a government which they wish to
govern ; while things go well, the old lervants
of the people will do. In such a bad cafe, bad
motives mull be afligned by the party, for good
aCtions, and imaginary dangers must be hitched
on to prosperous events. In time, some lucky
public misfortune or blunder may happen, and
then those who always prophecy evil, may exult
and cry, we told you so.
pis Letters for the Biitijh Packet, Capt. Boulder
fon% via Halijax, tit// be received at the PoJl-OJfiie iit
this City, «n/i7 8 o'clock on Tuejday morning next.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Nancy, Barry, Jamaica
Two Sifters, Fortr, Virginia
Molly,
Schr. Bcifcy,
Britannia,
Friendship,
Sloop Folly,
Bet fey,
Post Chaise,
Bel fey,
6 per CenU,
3 per Cents,
Deterred, »3&«
full shares Bank U. 9. 49 per cent.prera.
$ H>arts # 61
WAN! ID—TO RENT,
From the last of Oftobcr next,
A convenient Hottfc, in or near tht centre »J
the til), —inquire ojthe Hdtlor*
SHIP NEWS.
Mercer,
Williams,
Young,
Cai ver,
Smith,
Chnftopher,
Cobb,
Earle,
Cafco-Bay
Boston
Curacoi
Bolton
Bermuda
Port-au-Prince.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Madeira
Savannah
»./■
<3 rBank oftheUnitedSt&tes
RESOLVED,
THAT an of Discount and Deoofif, be
eftabliflied-iu the City of Richmond, Siateof
Virginia,
RESOLVED
That Ihe 2d Tut fd ■ V in September next be ap
pointed for the Election ot Thirteen Directors arid
a CafhieY, for 'he Office of Discount and Depolit,
in the City of Riehmond.
By Oi der of the Pr< fident and DireOors,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier
Certificates Loft.
MISS IN , Five New- Jersey Certificates, figncd
by Silas Condi ft, viz.
No. 740 for £. 75 o o
1978 11 12 / 9
715 100
3482 1 4 6
1 '
829 o 12 9
The fubferiber supposes the above Certificates
are Rolen. Whoever will discover the Thief, 01
Certificates,'and leave information at the Treafur\
or L >an-Office in New-Jersey, or in the County
Collector's Office at Morris-Town, (hall be hand
fomelv rewarded by
Mori is-Town,
JJew- lerfe\, July 12, 179s
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY
Thomas james, wax chandlfr
from London, rrfpc&fiilly informs he public
that h has eft lifhed a Manufactory of the above
branch, at the ur>perend of et.Ncw-
Yn.k, wh it Mcrchanis, Captains of Veflels,
Diugpids, and Families. w <v be supplied with
excellent and pure White Wax Candlrs, Whi-p
Wax in Cakrs, Taprrs, Wax'd Lamp Wicks,
Flambeaux, Sec. warranted equal to any made in
London, and twenty percen . cheaper.
O' ders'n this and the acjjacent States, received
by Mr. John Goodeve, Bridge-Street, Mr.
William Frobisher, Fletcher-Street, and at
the Manutafctory, where samples may be fecn.
N B. Bees-Wax taken in payment, or bleached
•n moderate terms.
Jul< iq, 1792,
Stock Brokers Office,
No.45. Ore t D 'ck-lheet, New-York,
TH K Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to th( PURCHASEandSALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to ofiri
bis Cervices to his friends andoiluis. in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with ih<ii bufinef-, may depend upon
having it tranfa£ted with the utmost fidelity and
difoatch.
O'ders from Philadelphia, Boston, orany othe
part of the United States will be ikriftiy attend
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKFR.
CM
Mi- 2
Ebenezer Hazard,
STOCK-BROKER,
H\S Removed his, OFFICE to No. s?Bnorfli
S' cond-Street, where he continues to uurchafe
and fell on Commiflion. Certificates of debt of 'h
United, and Individu, States, Bank Slock, Canal,
and Turnpike Share*. & \ See.
(p? Subscribers to the Universal Tontine who>
have not vet received their Certificates aie defircd j
to call for ihem
.July 18,
TERRITORY ok COLUMBIA
P June 28. 170-.!.
URSUAN'T to the tall Will and Ti.il uiicm „l
;hc late R v. Alexander Williamson,
dcceafcd, will t>r .-xpofcd to Public Sale <.n I hurl,
da), the 11th r,I Octobir next, at (Jeokcetown.
on a cr. dn ol three veais, the purchasers givin
bond with -tppwved security, to bear intercfl Irom
thedate—That valuable Seat of Land, in Monigo
ro<;ry county, called Haves; the late dwelling
plantation o( the deceased, containing betvycen fix
and ff ven hundred acrt *, the greatt 0 part of which
is rich, Heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
ter* d, and capable of affording a very confid'-rabli
Juantity r.f fine m.'adow ; —Situated about 6 miles
rom ihc F> deral City.and the fame did. ncc from
Gcorge-T.iwn, in a genieel neighbourhood, and a
rcmaikable healthy part of ihe country.
The improvement arc, a very •legant two ftorv
Buck Duelling House, (with four rooms md j
callage, 01 entry, on a f] ,n.) and the nectffjry out
houses. HENRY TOWNSF.N'D, )
BEMJ. VTODDF.RT,
(epiO) THO vIAS JOHNS,
TERRITORY or COLUMBIA.
r p;lE Subscriber offers for Sale, a M,|j.sJ jf'on
X Sock Creek, d emed bv 'hose who have ex
muied it, equal to ,ny in the United States The
M.ll-Houferoaybe placed within on. quarter of
a m le \ the mver Pmowmac, half a mile from
the market house in Georgeto- n, and one mile
1 t'im r he Piefident't square, ui /he city nt Waib
in r-on on tide water, navigable for v, ffels of fe
ver*! hundred bulbels burthen.-The stream is
lurhcicni,the year round,to turn four pair of (tones
and »he fall may be made from 030 feet. It
is uniiccefTiry to dwell on the advantage* of I'uch
a Ittuanon.
The puichafcr may be accommodated with a
f w hundred ,cre» of land adjoining the M.ll-Srat,
if i i<i' fliouM he .in ohjfft,
(fpyn i 4 |ul)
George-Town.
A Number ol LOl'S.n every Iruatibn which
may be <fir.d ,n C.ty of Wa«iunoton
v.II be offered to, f.,le bv Iho Com.., doners on
Monday-h. 8; <> day of Oflober n- x>. Onr tounh
par' ot .ho noneyto ho pa.d down, the icfiduo ...
1 r q ual «>nu»l pavnents. wi.h yearly ime.cft
on ihc whole prinrina! uncnid.
JOHN M'GAMTT, Clerk
to the Commifljcnevfi,
June 2, 1792,
100 Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cambridge Common, Maffachuk tts,
on the afternoon of the j 8 !i nl . a Morocc
POCKET-BOOK, with a ltcc! clasp, containing
a number ot valuable papers, among wbicl) were
i 1 c *o I' wmgr Public Securities, vz.
July 10, 1 792,
MafTai bufctts State Nmcs- Ko. 2,425, d »te< :
Dtcember 1, 1782, payable to Thomas Greenwood
tor £ . 23 tfij. principal—No. 22.399, J..-
uuary 1, 1785, o.iyable to Nathaniel Partridge, ior
£■10 10s. principal.—No. , dated juiuary
1, 1782, fan army note] payable ro Timothy How
ard, t'or£\ 8 Bs. Id. principal.— No. , a Not.
(the number, da'e, and 10 whom payable, not
known) tor £. 3 os. principal.— One Inderi
Ceriificate tor Four Dollars, and a New-Hamp-
Oiire Cen'ficate for about /.12 payable to John
and Daniel Jenks ; nlfo a numjber ol Notes of Hand.
• ne of which was for £. 572 given by Nathan
Bond to Samuel IV. Pomeroy fby whom it was tn
dor ltd) dated Ifl May, >792, and payable 011 the
1 lth Aucuft following; me O. hers were all Daya
Ie 10 the Subscriber. The Securitles are checked
at ihe different offices from whence thev wt«e
•flucd, and the N tes of Hand by the different
they can iherefore be of no use to any but
he own r.
The Subferiber hereby offeis.a reward of One
Hundred Doliars lo any person or persons
who has found the f,ime, and will return ihem io
him, or leave thetn with the P >nt(.r hiteof, and
no questions w 11 be asked.
JOSEPH LEWIS.
(1 jw 7w)
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Salem, Maffaehufetts, AuguJl 1, 1792. (eptt)
Tranradls bufincfs in the Fu:idi of the United
State";
BANK STOCK, BILLS cf EXCHANGE, &c.
{£f* Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will he attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality.
New-B aun s wick.
Church Lotterj^.
THE peculiar ciicu'i fiances of a gentleman
who had undcriakn to diifpofe of a prop >r
rion of the tickets in the New-Brunfwick Church
Lottery, having, in is opinion, rendered it incon
venient tor him furthi-r to proceed in tlie fair
thereof, between leven and twelve hundred tick
's are unexor&dlv r< turned to the Rtftor,
Cliur h-Wardens and Veftiy-min. This the
M nageis under the r»ec ffity of fuither adjourning
he drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth dav
ol Ottob r n« xt, that they may have time to tianf
inii these tickets to the p.<risof the ttate whs re the\
'i»e applied for, and te'.»ive ihe returns Astheie
aie but lew tickets besides thefc remaining on
'iand, all persons who arc dtfpofed to promote 'he
oious ob.j< ft of this Lottery, or to lake a chance
for the p- izes therein, are requeued to supply them
selves by 'h fiill «» f October ; and the gentlemen
appointed to ifpofe of them, aie defir< dto return
those to the Managers which then remain unfold,
'o answer he applications of some gentlemen in
he neiglibotiihood, who are postponed to thi re
source for a supply.— And notice is her< bv given,
that the tickets not returned to the Manageis b\
he eighth d v of October, will bt considered
at thr risk of the holders.
r«7-i
N. B Robert Morris, Esq. of N w-Bunf
wick, is duly chosen one of the Managers of the
said Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agree to law. p, Oj)
(1 p.tf;
A Valuable FARM,
PEASANTL\ fttuated, and well unproved,
containing 7.13 arres, whereof 4,7 arc wood
land. 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made ; the
cleared land is under go<d frncr, an d is well
adapted tografs, and 1 here being Co mu h meadow,
a large (10. k may be ra'fed : it is also natural to
wheat, and a proper attention to a wcll-kep( stock,
will much improve itt quality, and be the mod
piofitahle : it has a young orchard of 200 apple
!,e'B» a variety of peach and cheny trees, and a
Luge garden. There arc on the premises a hand
some two (lory (lone house and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza; also, a good barn, with (tabling,
cow-hotife, waggon.house, wotk-fliop'
and fmoak-houfe. The fr uation is high, pF ( afant.
and h.althv, and affords some very agreeabl.- pro
fpeefs, and is in a good ne' ghbonrhood : it lit sou
the main road to New-Y ,rk, about a mile and.a
half from Princeton, New-Jcrfey, and 43 from
this ci'y. The till was examiner! and approved
bvetninent council beforethefubferiber pu chafed.
For (urther pani ulais apuly to the fubfetiher, a
No. 141. South Second.(freer, or at No. Bt, South
Water-ftieet, Philadelphia.
Executors,
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
N.B. Stock for the fat m may be had of the prc
fent tenant. 1
All. I, In 1,0 Sold, and rnt■ red immet)iateh ,
A twn.ftnrv Br rk HOL'.SE and KAKF.-HOI'SE
l" Arch-ftrrcl, No. ,3. ,6 'r, I lw,.i„ h. s 111 Iront,
and 102 feet in deplh. Auplv js, above
'"I* 17
I Mxty Dollars Reward.
T) ROKE goal in B l iinore, the ich ol Aoril
KM I tffi P*.«NcpoM.-.n,named
LL FLANAGAN, the property ot the fub
fcnber. H, .. ft-aight likely f. How,about
A n a ' S " '• 5 ,e '' 8, 9or 10 inches high. He
ali.fls io bf Methociift, i, extremely an.
"I, talkative a.rd planfii.lt-; c m read, „,d lt ~
,, p k p ;;;?a, n B :r e -
B. STODDFRT.
a pair of canvafj ttoufrrs; he was barefooted
It .. not doubted h. w,U ,1., r hi, drels, an,) ch,„^
VV'Tr was !a " ly ,h<- p r ' H>c "y of ch P ;
Jofrph Goutrou, , Bal„ m „, e , and was emploWH
» la,loron> ,„rd h.» par ke, ; a .d it i, probable
n-V try to gel on boa.d some v.lfel i„ rapacty ot
teaman.
delph'i S a fUPP "wi Y n Z NWY °* «r Phil,.
driph,a_ Who,v,V 'akos up ..nd fcoure. f, A
N qro. f- .hat »vf„MV l ,bor„o„b„ n ag,,
h » B D " U^S — ' I
IV j r a Htt,S TO|>HliRHirGHt.S
Ball,more, Augujl i, , 79 ,. („ p
[>ptlj
Wm. c l el an d,
BOSTON,
1
TO BE SOLD,
(And p > ifc(lion given immrdately)
108
Treasury Department,
A. gust 10, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proofs. will
be received at the office of the S cretarv o
the Trcafurv, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
mber next inclusive, foi the supply of all Rations
he h may be required for the rife of the United
Sates, from 'he si 1 ft day of January to ihe thirty
firfl day of December, 1793, bo h days inclufivt ,
the olaces, and within the diftiidts hereaftei
mentioned, viz.
i. At any place or placesbetwixtYoik-Town &
Ca, 11(lr, in the Hate of P> nnfylvatva.and Pr (burgh
and at Pittsburgh, York-Town and Carlisle.
2. At any place or places from Pittsburgh to th
mouth of Big Beaver Creek, and at the mouth o
R ; g Beaver Creek.
3. At any pl.ee o» places from the fa id mouth
the upper falls of the fa-d Big Bsaver, and at t
upper falls.
4 At anv place or places from the said uppe
'alls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning;.
5. At anv pla e or places from the said Mahonin
ovc to the Head Navigation of the River Caya
and at the said H' ad Navigation.
6. At anv place or places from the said Head Na
vigation to the mouth of the said Rivei Cayahogj
and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt the mouth o
hr Big Braver Cieek to the mouth of the R»vr
[Muflunguro, and up the said River to the Tufca
r "a n«, and at the Tufcarowas and thence over te
the Cayahoga River, and thence down the fail
K iv er 10 its mouth. ,
8. Ar »nv olacc or places bet w ; xt the mouth o
the River !Vfqfkingt>m and the mouth of theSciot*
River, and at the month ol *.he said River Scioto
q A 1 *nv place or pldrrs betwixt the month o'
Scoto R'v-rand the month of the Great M am',
as 'he mouth of the Gn at Miami, and from hencc
oh Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
10. At anv place or places betwixt the mouth
•he Great Miami, up th said Miami to and a
Pique Town.
>/» i TV *$ lawQtn)
11. At any place or places frnmFort Washington
;r> Fott Hamilton, and at Fort At any
ice or plarrs from F,, rt Hamilton to Fort Si.
Clair, and at F'"»rt St. Clair.
12. A' my plaeeot places Fort St. Clair t
Fort feflferfon, and at Fott Jeff-r<on.
13. At mv place or nlacrs from Fort Jefferfon to
he field ol action of the 4th of November, 1 ygi,
md he said H'-ld of a£Hon.
14 At anv plaee or places from the said field o:
aftiori to the Miami Villages, and at the Miam
Village-.
15. At an\ place or places from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls of the Miami River, which
empties into Lake E»ie, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouih, and at its mouth.
16. At anv placeo» places fromthe mouth of the
r aid Miami River of Lake Erie toSandufty Lake,
and at Sandnfkv Lake.
17. At anv o 1 ace or places from 4he said Sandufkv
L-.ke to the mouih of the River Cavahoga.
18. At anv place or p'acesfrom rhe mou'h of th'
'aid River Cayahoga to Prefqu. Isle, and at Prcfque
I fie.
19. At any place orplaees fromPrefque Isle to the
running in'o Lake F.'i< from towards the
1 idaghque I.ake, and thence over to and at the
said Jadaghqne Lake, and thence down the Allcg
hanv River to Fori Franklin.
20. At anv place or places from Prefque Isle toL
Bru', and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or places from I.e Beuf to Fort
F*ankbii. and at Fort Franklin, and ftoin thence
to Pnifbittgh.
9.2 Ai nv place or places from tin Rapids of the
Ohio (o the moiif h of! h W bash River, and fr un
the mouth of the said Wabalh River to the mouth
ol the River Ohio.
23 At ,» v olace or places on the East fide of the
Rivi t M fTifTmpi, from the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the m iu'h of the Illionois River.
?4 A' any place or places on the Eoilfideof the
Millifliopi. between the mouth of the Onio and
ho River Marmot Piclufivtly.
25. At any olace or places from the said River
Ma< oot to the River Yazous incluflvely.
26. Nt any place or places from the mouth of the
'a d YVabafh River up to Tort Knox, and at Fort
Knox.
27. At any pl.ice o« obcei from Fort Knox, up
he '"aid Wabafh, 10 Oni tanon, and at Omttanon.
"8 \t any place or places from Ouiitanon,up the
' ; d Wa'iafh, to the h<ad navigation of a' branch
thereof . allid Little River, atKl at the said head
n of L.ttle River.
29. A anv p ace or pla, es from ihe said head na.
viqatton of Little River over to the Miami Village.
go. anv place 01 places from the mouth of the
Riv.i T.nefftf 10 Occochappo or Bear Creek, on
the f. d Rive , inr nfively.
31. At any place 01 placesfromthe mouth of the
Rivit Cumber and to Nalhville, on the said River,
and at N. fhville.
And .11 anv -lace or places within thirty miles
of said Nafhvilie. to the Southward, Westward 01
Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any places, or
within other diftuft , not Ipecifird in (hele pro
posals, tire uric of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on hruvxt the uhlicandlhccontratl.il.
Th- rations to be fupplicd are to consist of the
following articles, vi 2.
(civ f'
One pound ot b'ead 01 flour,
One pound of hc<f, or J ol a pound of pork,
Mil' a | ill of mm. bi anuy or \v h ifky,
One of fait, '
Two quai ts of vinegar, f
Two pounds o ( fuap, f P er rations.
One pound ol candles, )
Ihe rations are to be furnilhcd in fitch quanti
ties as that their (hall at alt times, during the laid
term, be fufficteni f..r the consumption ol th
11oops at each of the said polls, tor the spare of at
Iraft three mon hs in advance, in good and whole
loirie proviftor.s, if the lanK (hall be teqtiittd
I is to be undetflood in each cafe, that all loss .
fiftjttied by Ihe depredations of the enemy, or l>\
means of the troops ot the United Stairs, ihall I e
paid for at the prices of the articles captured or di
iiroseH, on the d' pofirions oi two or more crcdiia
nle chun£tcrs, and the certificate of a commitfioii
d officer, afc'-rtaining thr orcuinft mce« of tli
I lls, and theamonn- of the articles sot which corn
ocnfatioo is claimed.
1 he rornaft 'or 'he above fiioolirs wil! he mad
cither lor one year, or for two years, as may appeal
'•ligiblc. Persons diTooft >n i
"re confine .heir olFcs w! " '4-
nakt ,h«r prop„f ulons f „ Js J" '< o, ,h„.
)f ,he l crm of two years. aneJ cflic|
1 tic ofFtrs may comprise all iK« i
ipecfica,„ r a part <- f thc„r o a n c ;;. whi^
To hc
AMERICAN R T EMEMBR ANCer
0F THl NtE *,'
Ulct' (sori(jprej?j ,
From September 1774, ~ to M " cti
written during the | att WJ ,.
Anrf EXT*ACTjf mmth .
*f c ;\ ET journals.
(For part,clt« S ,J u I'ropcfaU a, l.r g! }
"* P r '"cipi|
.OHNCARKY.^c^j
Universal Hymn Book
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON and
Booksellers ,n °' h "
A CollfSion of PSALMS, HYMNS an J c D t»
/I RITUAL SONGS; fel'ea ( . ri f, N 0 S m 3 ;2
Authors, and publithed by Order of ,k. r
vemion holding the Doctrine of the S.lvwft
-II Men, met in Philadelphia, M» «, ~Q ]
Pr-ee of a (ingle hook, bound, 3.Bth s of a Doi|„:
Auouft / " CC thofC Wh °
" 4 ' (ep'f.)
BOOKS,
"I»TID AND SOLD BY
M A T H E W CAREY
A No. 11 8, Market-Street, Phihdelbhw '
MF.R IC ANMUShUM.f.om itscoiiimrnct
mem in January 1787, to Jnne tin,, m
Hovcn vols. Pncc, neatly bound and kucrcd,
Seventeen dollars and three fifths.
This work, which it now condufled on an im.
orov d plan, containing the bell pieces publilh. d
'or and against the proceedings of government,
will he found to contain at leall as great a variety
of political, agricultural,and miscellaneous effais
as any ever published in America. Perhapsin
one work are lo many valuable docum ntsrrfprft.
ing the hiltory of this country, colleflcd together.
His Excellency the Pieftdent of the United States*
has declared of it, that " a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one m ire deserving of public encouragement."
The fnhferi ption is two dollars and a half per
inn. Gentlemen in the countty who «i(li to
be supplied with this work, are requested tn give
commilfion to friends in the city to fubferibefor
and 1 eceive it- Any of the back numbers
maybe had in oHer to complete feu.
2. Smith's Letters 10 Married Women,on Nurf
ue: and the ol Children.
"We recommend these letters to the perufjlnf
'h'ife to whom they are particularly addrt (Ted."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101—Ptice, bound,
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s cenu.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents,
5. Beauties of Blair—so cents.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss
More's EfTays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
oil's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone on command of Temper, More's Fable*for
'he Ladies, Price 6f6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Piicc adol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, l. l d. profeffor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Mariicha) College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fouiths of a dollar. 01 »his book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : "We
have seen nothing on these fubjr&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful." —-
N. B. It is introduced into the Univcrfityin Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry,
doilar.
io. Blair's Q ermons. Price two dollars.
11. Nf cker'sTreatifc on the imponanrc of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price foui-fit'hs of a dollar.
is. Examination of the Obfcrvat ion* of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bths ofa dollar
13. The Con ft it u 1 ions of the several United States#
with the Federal Cinftitution, See. Price five
eighths of a dollar. ,
14. M'Fingal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price ihree-fifthJ of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The D >way Tranflntion of the Vulgate Bi
bl<", in quarto— P> ice, elegantly bound and letter
ed, 50/2—-plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Chrillian's Vade Mecum—P" c * a
quarter dollar. ..
19. Think well on'f. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Ch' iftian Economy. Price a filth of a 0. ar.
21. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a Hollar. «
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys —Pncca
of a dollar. p • ~
23. Scleft Poems, chiefly American-- '
fixr hof a dollar. _ ant n f
Said Carey has for sale, a large affor
Books, European as well as Amcfiean e r' na h)c
which he will dispose of on the 111 f a '
terms. Country gentlemen, who >■ ( i - n
commands, may depend upon being U P P |ice
'he m<>fl fan'sfactory manner. A libera d ' - f5
'o such as quant.lies for pub ic
>r 10 (ell again. —
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAI.,HYSON&SOIICKONj
O t the vrt \ si' II quality, and Ijif" P
from Can,on, ~, NVw-Yo.k, bjf «uil,«
rhnd, between Chefiiu' "f 5 _ r '^' ' f s yi
rr The JOURNAL of the Tin '
of t-!,e SEXj'l ol MM **>■■")
had oj the Editor hereof.
Price four-filths of a