%
A NATIONAL PAPER. PITHTISHi ~ 1 —
AND """BAYS'., Ko. tB , LiI)ILfH ,;
[No. 54 of Vol. IV.]
Foreign Allaire.
VIENNA, Sepr. 12
WE iearn by letters From Semlin,
dated the 4th inlt, that the
Turkish inhabitants of Belgrade, who
had withdrawn from ibence during
the war, after having afieuibled to
the number of 2000 men near Se
mendiia, and provided themfielves
in their route with cannon, on the
gilloflart: month marched under
the command ofCarra HafTan before
Belgrade, where they fummaned the
Pacha to grant them a free entrance
into the city, and to re- establish them
in their former polfeffions. Their
demand having been refufed, they
prepared to obtain it by force. On
the morning of the 3d of this month
they aflaulted the city, and obliged
the Pacha to retire with his garrison
iiw» citadel, which, at the de-
parture of the courier, was menac
ed by the rebels.
FRANKFORT, Sept. 17.
The two daughters of the heredi
laryPrince ofßaden-Durlach,Loui fa-
Maria, aged 1 3 years and a half, and
Frederica-Dorothea, aged 1 r years
and a half, palled through this city
011 their way to Petersburg ; we are
allured that these two princeiTes are
dellined as consorts for the two el
dest (ons of the grand duke of Ruf
lia,Alexander and Conftantine ; that
they will complete their education
at Petersburg, and that they will be
ioftrudied there in the Greek reli
gion.
PARIS, September
The coinmilfioners appointed to
fttparintejid tha Royal PriJ'ouets ill
the Temple, have informed the
Council General of the Com-mons,
that three or four hundred people
ti'oinetiines assemble in the night,
iliear the tower where the king lodg
es,-and calling out fometiines Vive
It Roi. Meafuree have been taken
.by the Council to prevent such af
-femblages in future j and tliev have
proposed to take frotn the king his
red ribband and other insignia of
royalty, as feudality which iliey
fay ought not to be fuffered.
The Cominonsof Paris sent to the
Convention an inventory of the sil
ver plate found in the lioufes of the
brothers of die King.
Carobon—•• I mole that all the
filler plate found in the different
churches, and in the houses of the
emigrants, be immediately sent to
the mint.".— Decreed.
The Commons of Paris wrote to
tile Convention, that the three mil
lions afligned to them fo r the pur-
J)ofe of liquidating notes iflued by
the Bank of Aids, were expended,
f hey therefore requefled two mil
lions more, that they might be ena
bled to liquidate the whole of these
Dotes.
This occasioned a long debate, in
which la Croix and Cambon com
plained that the Commons of Paris
demanded new funds, without (hew
ing to what purpose they had appli
ed the former grant.
Ihe President quitted the Chair,
tojultify the Commons, and said,
tl\at when their accounts fhoold be
'"IpetSed, no caule of blame would
be tound againit them.
Ln Croix and Chauibon moved,
''that the department ofParis fliould,
in three days, give in an account of
the purposes to which they had ap
plied the three millions formerly
granted ; and also a particular ac
count of the present Itate of the pri
vate Banks of Paris which have il
fued noies—Decreed.
The Conuniffkijiers of the Execu
tive Power wrote from Lille, dated
September stating, that the
jtlace was regularly besieged ; that
Wednesday, D :zmber 5, 175)2.
:tu- cccmy wrrf in force, and the
garrison very weak, but that ths
courage of the soldiers and citizen;
gave ihem reaCon to hope that the
enemy would be repnlfed.
A deputy of the Department of
the North declared, that the coiti
miffioners were mifinfornied ; for
lie knew beyond a doubt, that the
garrison confided of s,sooinfantry,
and 600 cavalry.—There was no
evening fitting this thry.
The position of the armies is
still the fame, anil the Pruliians are
in as much diltrefs as ever. It is
well known that there have been
private conferences between the
Dukeof Brunfwiek, Lucchrfini, and
some Frencfy olficers : and it is sup
posed these conferences are intend
ed to bring about fame accommoda
tion between the contending Pow-
ei s."
General Kcllerman'i Cmnp, Sept. 25.
" Since the affair of t lie 20th, no
thing has palled between the two
armies. They are always in fight
of each other. That of the enemy
has advanced upon our left ; by
which means they occupy the two
routes of Chalons and Rheiuis, and
have blocked up both these conimu
i)ications. They ravage all the
neighbouring villages, but they will
all loon die of hunger, for the pea
l'ants have carried ofFall their cattle.
" At present there is a verbal sus
pension of hoftilitjes. SomePruflian
officers have been to dine wiih Ge
nerals Kelieiman and Ounumiier.—
M. Heyman, an emigrant officer, at
present a Major General in the ser
vice of Pruflia, wai among the num
ber. 'There have been foine private
conferences, bat they have produc
ed nothing. The proposals present
ed by the Prussians are, that the
King fliould be re-eftabliihed. You
need not doubt how these were re-
ceived
" Yesterday the King of Prussia's
fir ft Aid de-Camp dined with Geri.
Dumourier. His name is Manftrin,
when the Nation, and the health of
the King of Pruflia, were given as
toasts.
" A conference was just going to
be held, when intelligence arrived
that Royalty had been abolished in
France by a decree of the National
Convention.
"All that I can fay is, that the
Pruftians are in a deplorable fixa
tion—the affair of the 20th has (hewn
that the soldiers of "Liberty are fu
perlor to those of Despots."
Tbe volunteers of the diftri& of
Bernay, have fix fine pieces of can
non, taken at the battle ot Bergen,
from the fame Duke of Brutifwick,
who now leads an army in France,
and given by Loui-s XV. to the Ma
refchal Broglio.
Eight hundred Marfeillois, chosen
from tbe molt eager patriots in the
place, are upon their march to Paris,
to replace those gone to the fron
tiers of Spain, ana to defend the ca
pital. They are provided with pis
tols, sabres ahd mufquets, and have
each an affignat of five hundred li
vres, the gilt of their fellow citi
zens. Two hundred horse entirely
equipped accompany them.
The procurer-Syndic of,the de
partment of La Marne, and the Polt-
Master, have fled from Chalons, up
on perceiving fonie suspicions of
their treachery.
The tumults at Rouen have sub
sided, and thecoirtmiflioners return
ed to the National Convention, have
declared, that, during their whole
journey, they perceived themoft ar
dent fyiuptoms of patriotism in the
people.
The street St. Ann, in Paris, in
which Helvetius was born, is order
ed to be called the street ol Helve
tius.
213
«« unarfimoufly declared by
• ! National Convention, in the fit
' '"g°n Tuesday, that '• the French
republic is one and indivisible."
I he fame evening the aflerably
abolithed the high national court of
Orleans. Peace is reltored at Or
leans by the presence of the coin
mifhoners from the National Con
vention.
M. Cazotre, who was involved in
t<he j lans of the court, was con
demned and executed in the place
de Greve, on Tuesday last. He went
to the fcaffold with much fijfnnefs.
The bridges of the Marne" have
been cut to prevent the Prussian d£
tachments from puffing them for the
purpofeof obtaining forage.
A lecond convoy of cannons from
thefoundery of fndrer, arrived at
Paiis on Tuesday night.
Jacobin t'iujf, 26
Chabor revived again his motion
to bring Louis and his wife to trial
and to force the Convention u> or
ganize tlie government, and to de-
Uroy all intermediary administrati
ons between the execuiive power
and the people, except the munici
palities. It is not the convention
ttiat we must petilion for this it is
the sovereign of the convention,the
people. Let the sovereign order,
and their representatives must obey.
It has been said, that one miniller
cannot correspond with 44,000 mu
nicipalities. I inean to propose
80,000 municipalities, to correspond
with whom let there be 30 or 40 mi
nisters. [Murmurs.]
A letter was read from the Abbe
Kauchet, juftifying himfelf against
thr accufaiions upon which he I.ad
been expelled the society, but they
persisted in his expulsion.
Chabot's motions were resumed,
and another very warm debate took
place, and again Perion, and his
friends who wereprefent, procured
the adjournment, without trying
their strength in bringing the in
flammatory quertions to vote.
NATIONAL CONVENTION
September 30.
Citizens Robert, Mayor ofVancq,
and Benier, Re<ftor of that Commu
nity, being admitted to the bar, ad
dressed the Convention as follows :
" Representatives of the French
people ; we here addrefsyou in the
name of seven or eight hundred ci
tizens, to Whom nothing remains
but the alhes of their habitations,
and their fidelity to the republic,
and who, for their attachment to
* the laws, have experienced the ven
geance of the enemies of liberty.
" On Monday, the 24th of this
month, the Municipality ofVancq,
in the diftric't of Vouzieres, and de
partment of Ardennes, received an
order in the name of the ci-devant
Marshal tie Broglio, coiuinandiiig a
body of Emigrants, whose head quar
ters were then at Vouzieies, tofup
ply his army with provisions. The
Municipal Officers faithful to their
duty refufed to comply. In the
course of the day a second summons
was sent, with threats of military
execution, and setting fire to the
place in cafe of refufal, but the Mu
nicipality (till returned their for-
mer answer.
" In a moment the flames consum
ed our whole crop both of wheac
Ariel barley, with our barns, stables,
horses, and nearly 200 houses which
were about a third of the whole
number in the place
of the Mayor, that of his brother,
a deputy ofibe national convention,
and the church were also destroyed.
" Their rage was not yet Hirisfied
they maflacred wi-.hout diltin«fti
on, «W men, women, and children
"r—'(hey prevented a mother from en-
tering her house cof.i\e her thiee
children,who perished in ihe flames.
They offered a pardon to anv
pei foil who would deliver up , f." c
Mayor and the Rector, but luckily
we found means to lave «iurfei*c<,
by routs luikuovvfi to the wonftcfts
who are thus ravaging our countiy,
" The emigrants faiiated wiih
carnage, and covered wit h the blood
of their fellow citizens, at length
retired ; but they tied to the tairt
of their horfen some of the inhabi
tants, whom tltey carried off with
them to ferye as a trophy of their
infamous triumph.
" We requelt an aid of 50,000 li
vres, to relieve the urgent wains of
our community, as rhe loss we have
fullained is ettimated at mere than
500,000 livres."
On a motion made by M. Lacroix,
the convention :lece«J, " t hat t!:t
above sum fiiould be aifigned to the
Minister of the Home Department
to relieve the village of V'ancq, and
that it should be taken from the
money produced by the sale of ef
fects belonging to the Emigrants."
A number of members, amonp
whom were Cambon, Manuel, ami
Collot d'Herbois, moved " that all
the effects of Broglio should be im
mediately fold." The lull member
moved, "that the punishment of
death Ihould be inflicted on every
Frenchman who fcou)d quit his
country, 10 go and inhabit any
country now at war with France."
A number of other propofitiors were
also made, but afer a little discus
sion, they were all of them referred
to a committee.
ACCS'SATIO NS Itt. THE HiClO'i.l
On Tuesday, on a proposal made
by M. Merlin for alloting a guard
to the National Convention fiorn
lie eighty-Flnee departments, a
long debate arose, of which we (hall
only endeavor to give a gtner*l
idea.
M. Merlin said, that a dictatorial
party had been denounced to him
in the Aflipmbly ; he demanded to
have this party pointed out, that he
might poignard the firft man who
should arrogate to himfelf the pow
er of a dictator.
M. Lafource made a very able re
ply. He had not fpaken of a dic
tator, or a dictatorship ; but he hatd
alluded to a dictatorial power, which
some men of intrigue and ambition
might aim at. At the conclusion of
his speech he referred to the au
thors of the late dif6rders, and one
or two members mentioned M. R6-
bercfpierre.
M. Oflelin denounced M. Robert
fpierre. He accused him of being
connedled with several other mem
bers of the department ?.f Paris,in,a
league for eretfing a tribunitial pow
er, that was to role and govern the
republic under the name of n Jri
umvirat: or diHature. ** -
M. Barbareux, a deputy forMar
feilles, affirmed, that one 01 Robert
fpierre's si tends (M. Pains) had
pointed him out to the Marfeilloi*
as a proper, and indeed the only
person to fill, or at least to head the
diftatorfhip ; but they had all ex
claimed, " That ha-.ing never bow
ed their necks beneath the tyranny
of a king, they would not acknow.
ledge the despotism of a public ma
gistrate."
M. Robertfpierre recalled
memory of his public fei vices, at a
man of letters, and a uieinber of
the conftituenr aflembly. He dis
avowed every idea of personal am
bition ; and at length formally, but
rather equivocally, denied tl h»
charge.
The house
[Whole No. 576'.]
CONVENTIONSeveral members called tapoiyhim to speak
plainly, and M. Lecointre Pyraveau i a id,
4 Robertfpierre, do not tell us what you did
in the comtitueut alTemblv, but fay plainly,
whether you have aspired to a deflatorfhip, or
a triumvirate !"
In anofher part of his speech, three mem
ber-, M. M. Cambon, Babey, and Lalle, re
peated tie lame demand. M. Robertfpierre
continued hji equivocal defence to a great
length.
Marat was also accused of writings tend
ing to excite the people to aflaflination. It
was with difficulty that he was permitted to
speak ; and when he observed, 44 that he had
many personal enemies in the convention,"
the whole body role up amidst (houts of dis
approbation, and declared their hatred to him.
Being at length permitted to proceed, he
spoke of his attachment to cause of liberty ;
his comtant and open enmity to a corrupt
court; his long iinprifonmeut; and, above
all, his predictions relative to La Fayette,
whole treason he had anticipated, and whose
guilty Juccefs lie had been lucky enough to
prevent.
M. Boileau, who futceeded him in the tri
bune, pulled out one of the afliches, or adver
tifeinents, circulated by him, in which he
told the people, 44 that if in the eight firft
feiiions of the convention, the basis of the
was not laid and adjusted,
a new infant;<Jtion, and a subsequent di&a*
ture would be absolutely neceiTary."
There is no manner of doubt hut the af
feinbly would have launched a decreeof accu
farion against him, if he had not declared his
repentance in regard to this proceeding, and
produced a journal polterior to the date of
tiie above, in which he evinced more modera
tion, and recommended far different princi
ples to the people.
In the course of his defence Marat said,
lt If you enquire concerning my heart, I can
answer with t(udi that it is pure, but as to
my thoughts, tney are my own ; no power
under Heaven has a right, to demand an ac
count of them. I declare, that if the decree
is carried against me, 1 lhall here biow my
brains out." —The fight of the weapon, and
of the exprellive gestures of M. Marat, agi
tated the convention considerably, and a loug
debate followed, until the call for the order
us the day.
Mar Dial Luekner sent a letter to the con
vention, j ullifying himlelf from the asper
sions thrown out againlt him in the fitting of
the 27th ult. to the charge made against him
of having left the incendiary Jarry unpunifti
ed, he replied, that the court martial of the
army of'the north Was not organized ; that
there was neither a coinmiflai y of stores, nor
a commiiTary of accounts ; and that he had
requested the itiinifter at war, but in vain, to
appoint such officers.
" When 1 let out for the Belgian Nether
lands," added he, " I was alfured that I
should be joined by 30 or 43,030 men ; but 1
remained there 14 days without feeing one of
them. I however continued at Courtray,
from which 1 wrote to the minister, entreat
ing him to fend me a reinforcement, that 1
might either maintain my post, or March
against Ghent, which 1 could not do without
more troops, because the enemy, who were
on my flank at Tournay, would infallibly have
cut off my retreat."
He concluded by observing, that his papers
were among his baggage, which would arrive
next week, and t: at he would then lay before
tbe commissioners the different letters he had
received from the ministers.
DIPLOMATIC AFFAIRS,
The following is a copy of the memorial de
livered in last nigluby the miuifterof foreign
affairs, concerning the situation of the prin
cipal European Powers, as far as refpcCts
trance.
RuJjU—" It has been announced, that a
Ruflian fleet is to piri's the Dardanelles, and
enter the Mediterranean ; but this fleet is
not as yet equipped.
4t It has a]lo been told us, that 20,000
Ruffians have left Poland, and are now on
their march tosVa vd \ out frontiers ; but
22,033 more are still wanting, hi order to
subjugate that country.
Denmark—" I-> too poor and too wife not
to remain neutral.
Sxu.den—" His been enlightened by a great
doineitic example, which has evinced the
dangers with w.iich despots and ufuipers are
conltantly surrounded; and its Regent polfeffes
too many virtues, not to re!pe£t a people de
termined to the laws only, which are Co
many written virtues.
md Aujtnu.—" At Berlin, the greut
elt fermentation reigns among the people of
a king who wiflus to attack our rights. They
adore that liberty which he blasphemes and
combats, but cannot overturn.
The I'uairn oj Brandrniurg—Auftria, which
can never be united but by means of criminal
passions, are nearly divided by those very
passions; and the King of Pruflia is actually
defirou , of making peace with France.
ou t to declare war against
us; lhe wants money, notwithfhinding her
mines ; and men, notwithstanding her pof
ieilions in the two worlds.
Gr eJ t.J),,ia, n .-*"ln England the king detests
us, but the people efteein us; and although
the constitution permits the king ta declare
war he dare not do it without the consent of
ins luojeCts.
Smucrbnd.—" Thcle brave mountaineers
are irmated aga.r.ft it ; but they will never
be luch parru-.de, as u, run, their arms a
gainst a people w!l0 wi.O, to be the brothers of
all the nations nprvi earth.''
t0 b - P-''"*-''', and tranf-
Dlitti'd tj the 83 departments.
tae inotion of Vi. Canibjii, who fta< . e .|
plat they (h.>uld liare ».> French Princes in a
republic, and tjat tl.c nation paid an annuity
of three millions, as the appanage oJ the gen
tlemen.
44 The National Convention no onger ac
knowledging French Princes, fuppnfl.es their
salaries of appanage."
M. Leonard Bourbon observed, that the
Lsgiilative Alfembly had fixed the salary of
tjhe ci-devant King at five hundred thousand
livres, he obierved that no prifonerhad ever
such a salary ; and therefore propo/ed that it
be fuppreired, and tne Municipality of Paris
charged to supply the wants of the prisoners.
After a few observations from M. Tallier,
it was referred to the Committee ot Fi.iqce,
and the Convention rose at five o'clock.
Paris, Sept. 29.
44 The two leading factions jfl-rm ai.mi 4
which (hall be the firft to betray ach e'er,
by delivering up the King and Roy. 1 Family
to the Duke of Brunfwick, should tl vbe able
to eleape being maiTacred in this conflict of
super-eminent wickedness and treachery.
<4 The Chiefs of the Jacobin faction in Pa
ris are perfectly well allured among them
selves, that their armies cannot face the
Duke of Brunfwick. They therefore mean
to put the best face on a bad cause, in order
to prcferve a little popularity with the peo
ple at large, and retire with an army, such as
it is, composed of the' hordes of banditti who
are very numerous, to Bourdeaux, fVom
whence it will be an easy matter for the
chiefs to embark for some part of America.
Most of the leading men of the fa&ion have
plenty of money, for they have been pillaging
the public coffers for the last two years, par
ticularly Duinourier. Condorcet's wife is
already gone off with the most valuable of her
husband's etfe&s, and he always carries his
own paflport about about him, that he may
be able to escape on the firft moment of dan
ger. Bourdeaux is evidently their place of
refuge. Whether in the event of the king's
not b«°ing delivered up, he is to be forced to
go with seems a matter Undetermined.
But probably he will be taken with fhem.
" 1 have reason to expect, that Gkneral
MOll tefquiou,who commands tTieFr'encl forc
es in the South, has made an irruption into
Savoy for no other purpofc than to capitulate
with the enemy.
" The city of Lyons is particularly favor
able to the aristocratic party, and the Sardi
nian trnops will be welcomed whenever they
come there with great joy by the inhabitants
at large, if we except about joo of the ban
ditti, who compose the Jacobin Club of that
city. The Sardinian troops would have been
there already, had 10,000 of the Auftrisns
from Milan joined themfooner.
" Although the King of Spain has not feem
cd much disposed to interfere, yet he proba
bly will now,the fame as the Swiss have done,
rhe latter would have declared war long
since, had not many of their regiments been
divided in several parts of France, which
made them apprehensive of their troops fall
ing-victims to such a proceeding.
" The troubles in the Department of Fi
nifterre are not yet terminated. Foartien
parishes have revolted, refufing to pay the
taxes, under the pretext that without a King
there can be 110 nation, and consequently nei
ther government nor authority capable of ex
acting contributions from the people. The
volunteers, provided with artillery, have
marched to crush this rebellion, but it is tho't
this expedition will not terminate so fuccefT
tully as the former one. The unfortunate
peasants have been condemned to pay 2j,000
livres to defray the expenses of the patriots,
incurred at the time of the firft infurreftion.
" It is generally known, that there is some
very bad news in town from our armies, but
what it is, I have not been able to learn.
Every thing that turns out unfortunate is so
cautiously concealed, that we know very lit
tle of what goes forward till two or three
days after the news arrives, and then" it is
pre r ented in so mangled a (late, that it is dif
ficult to discover the truth."
" P. S. We havejuft learnt the news of
Chalons and Rheims being taken by the com
bined armie*. This news niuft have been
known by some for many day» pad, but all
the Gazettes are silent on the fubjeft."
It appears that the Canton of Berne is dis
posed to give up the paPs of Portentrui to the
Emperor, and to a<st hoftilely against France.
A letter from Bienne toM. Carra, which no
ticed this inclination, was referred to the ex
ecutive power.
Lucknei is at Paris. He came to concert
th nof a campaign with the temporary
ve Power. He demands an audience
ot the National Convention, who appointed
him an hour to-morrow. He is to give his
observations in writing in the German lan
guage.
The execution of the Thieve* who stole
the Crown Jewels, is respited.
The Marine Mmifter has prepared a most
fatisiaftory account of the French Navy, for
the purpose of laying it before the National
Convention. From this llatement it will ao
peli' , tha ' the .- v have one hundred and two
L «T ,OUS r ateS ' P , ' fri^ates ' P^k
ets, and flutes at sea, or prepared to fail im
mediately ; and fifty-three Ihips of the line
£ r 'Ae.g h t frigates, and a proportionate num
ber of (mailer veiTels, in ordinary, or repair,
ing, witha lufficient quantity of navalftores
to put their marine on such a footing at the'
(horteft warning, that the minister observes
it may defy all the naval powers of Europe.
L O N D O N, October 2
P S' lC f Po ' X ' and ar
rived in England. He was among the armed
force m the rhulllerieson the 13thof Autn,ft :
he was taken in a Marechal's uniform, and
being left in the room of the committee of
j lance, e^ ca P et l by borrowing a coat
and waistcoat of the commillioners, and has
ever (met oeen secreted by a friend, in Paris ■
214
but escaped in dlfguife, as he /ays, haying
bought a paflport for one hundred thousand
livres.
The following is the present state of the
plan for relieving the unfortunate French
Priests.
The chief subscription amounted, onThurf
day, to four thoufaud pounds.
About four hundred and twenty persons
have at present applied for relief. The Pa
lace at Winchester, which, in the last war,
held 1,100 Fr«nch and Dutch prisoners, is
now preparing for their reception, and a
thousand may probably be accommodated
there, in such a manner as to fhfew that our
cb irity is nbt iniuitiiigly given. But the no
tion that the place is a lort of prifori has, we
ui. .erftand, prevented great numbers from
applying for admiflion to it.
A contractor furnifhes beds, during a cer
tain term, for 20001. : each person adopted
oy the charity,is to have two guineas a month
for the purchase of food ; and the greater part
will receive betides, twenty (hillings, the fir ft
month, as an allowance for clothes.
The great saloon in the Palace will be en
tirely filled with beds.
In the mean time,fubfcriptions are proceed
ingin several of the principal towns in En
gland ; and, as this is purely a question of
humanity, all political confidei ations are hap
pily excluded from it.
Should M. Dumouiier have Sfted, as is re
ported he has done, from principles of loyalty
to his Sovereigu, the worst that his enemies
can fay of him, is that he was a good kernel
in a bad shell.
M. de Calonne reached Dover on Sunday,
and went to pay his refpefts to Mr. Pitt at
WalmerCaftle. But he was not arrived in
London yefttrday afternoon, though hourly
expected.
M. Duma-., a member of the late national
aflembly in France, is arrived in London.
He is among those who voted for M. de la
Fayette, and of tourfe it was not fafe for him
to relide any longer in Paris.
It appears by Utters from Fribourg, in
Germany, that the Viscount Mirabeau, who
arrived at Oflemboutg on the 15th ult. at Jjrft
refufed every kind of remedy, dreading that
he should bo poisoned. At length he resigned
bimfelf into the hands of his physicians,' and
became better. In a violentdifpute with one
of his officers, he fell into an apoplexy, of
which he died, much regretted by the mili
tary under bis command.
The erouils of foreigners who land,and tra
vel to the metropolis on all fides of the stages,
render it very difficult to get a palTage from
the sea coast in any fort of carriage., All, all,
all, from the broad wheel waggou to the fly
ing dilly, are occupied.
Of the aftonilhiug increase of business in
the bank of England, the bcft idea may be
formed from considering the. increase of its
servants. Between 40 and 50 years ago there
were scarcely more than that number of
Clerks in employ there; this is still in the re
eolleftion of a few of the oldeit servants of
the bank ; at present the number employed
amounts to more than 400.
It has been averted that some merchants
have advanced l'ums to a considerable amount
to the King of France, (153 millions) nothing
can be more falfe. Had this been fact, their
houses would have been plundered, and their
lives forfeited to the summary vengeance of
the many-headed monster, the mob. They
have denied the charge, and it has not been
supported.
The Canton of Berne, in Switzerland, has
ordered a public mourning for fifteen days
on account of the defeat and slaughter of the
Swiss Guards at Paris on the loth of August.
During this time all the public fpe&acJes are
to be (hut up.
Tumult at Toulon.
The following is a letter from Toulon, dated
September 12.
" A plan of a counter Revolution discover
ed itfelf here fifteen daysfince. Unfortunate
persons confined in prison, forced, with sa
bres in their hands, the gaolers; and. those
malefactors, who were in number 1536 per
sons, spread themselves in bands over the
city, and gave rife to well founded fears. The
council general of the community allembled
immediately, ordered the gates of the town
to be (hut, the generate to beat, and seized
the galley prisoners, who, upon interrogation,
answered, that arms, and the means of ensur
ing their liberty, had been promised them.
u The authors of this movement were also
arrested and iniprifoned. They were inter
rogated, and declared guilty of confpiracv ;
yefterdav they were hanged. M. Flotte, com
mandant of marine, and M. Rochmaure, cap
tain of a vefTel, met with the fame fate.
There are flill in the prisons many officers,
accused of having refufed to take anns on the
day of the tumult."
The following decree, proposed by M. Du
mas, in the National AlTembl v was adopted
in the following words :
The National AiTembly confidently the ne
cetuty of providing as fpeedilv as possible, for
an exchange of prisoners of war, and fjr re
leasing luch of our brethren in arms; who, in
combat ng for their country, mj»y have fallen
into the hands of the enemy. Considering al
io, that the basis upon which the Executive
power, or the generals of armies, may con
clude treaties, conventions, or agreements,
ought to be founded on the principles of li
berty and equality, pass the following decree
refpecHng the exchange of prisoners.
i. There ftiall be no pecuniary tarif for the
exchange, according to the difference of rank,
but in terms relative to the corresponding.
ranks in the armies of the enemy.
2. There fliall be 110 tarif of exchange, so
that no officer or subaltern can be exchanged
aoamft a greater number of individuals of an
inferior rank.
3' The fcommon basis oi ail eVch- i
winch no modification can alter, fiiall b n "
change man Cor man, and ra,,k for rank.
Lxtrad tij a letterJiotn Lijle, dated Sept. 27
" We arc absolutely furroundeil bv the <■
nemy, and all the roads arc intercepted The
cannonading was kept up all day yeiter.l'.v
from both parties.; that of the befie» d
well as the besiegers. We hadfive m.n k'iled
by one ball. We fee the enemy (Vein tie ra-ti
parts carrying off their dead in' waggons. w
fet fire yesterday to part of the luourbs.
enabled the enemy to approach r.c-.cr tat'«
wall."
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday y November 23.
In committee of the whole.
A bill for regulating foreign coins u».
aer conlideration, which enacts that the
gold coins of Great-Britain and Portugal
(hall be a legal tender for payment of all
debts, at the rate of one dollar for everv
twenty-seven grains of the actual weight
thereof, and the gold coins of France and
Spain at the rate of one dollar for eveiy
twenty-seven and two-fifths of a grain of
the weight thereof.
Mr. Page said, he wished to be inform
ed whether there really was the difference
between the French and British coins
rtated in the bill—if so, how that differ,
ence had been ascertained 'That a few
years since he had examined hydroftati
cally the different gold coins named in the
bill, and a variety of coins of the German
empire ; and that although he readily dis
covered that the fpecific gravity of the
latter was so little as to juftify the low va
lue at which they were generally rated
he remembered well, that there was by no
means such difference between the fpeci
fic gravity of the former as could juflify
the discrimination made in the bill. He
added, that he doubted whether, iftheie
leally rtiould appear to be that difference
between the coins, it would be proper ta
introduce the diftin&ion by a law of the
general government, as it might be at
tended with some inconvcniencits, and
might be construed into a partiality to
Bi itifh commerce—he theiefore, to take
the lenfe of the committee, moved to
amend the claule, so as that the goldcoitu
of Great-Britain, Fiance, Spain, and Por
tugal (hould be payable at the fame rates.
Mr. Tucker seconded Mr. Page, and
supported hrs motion with fitnilar argu
ments.
Mr. Fitzfimons said he should vote a
ainft the amendment,becaufe, he believed
that the diftin&ion proposed in the bill
was really that which did exist in the in
trinlic value of the coins alluded to.
Several other members opposed the
motion, because, said they, we have no
doubt that the Senate, who originated the
bill, had conlidered the fubjeft fully, and
had made the proper ellimate (on full ir
foi mation) of the real value of the differ-
ent coins.
Mr. Page replied, that since he had on
ly heard the opinions and suppositions of
gentlemen opposed to his opinion, and no
latisfadlory proof offered to fnpport the
bill againlt his amendment, he (liould per
sist in his motion ; for, said he, although
I will not be so dogmatical as to assert
that 1 am right, and the Senate wrong —•
yet, in a matter of this nature, which ad
mits of politive proof and\demonfttatiou,
and which, as far as my own a&ual expe
riments have gone, eftablilh my opinion,
I cannot give it up, till I have been con
vinced by other arguments than such as I
have heard. Had 1 been told that the
different coins alluded to had been exa
mined hydroftaticaDy, or had been alTay
ed by proper persons appointed for that
putpofe, I (liould have acquicfced. I
might poflibly however have supposed that
they were of a different coinage or emis
sion from those which I had examined.
I think the clause under confideiation is
of such importance as to require full and
fatijfadtory proof to the world, that it has
not been adopted without a thorough w
veltigation of the truth and propriety v'
the diferimination it establishes between
the coins of the nations with which we
have such a conTiderable commercial m
tercourfe; with that proof, I Ihoiild be fa
tisikd, and would defy the invidious lu>-picioß of our being influenced by impro
per motives; but til! such proof be affor
ded, I mult think it would be better to a
roend the bid as I proposed, which would
leave those coins on their prefetit footing
duiitig only the (horfterm to which their
circulation is limited by the bill.
£ro.n what fell from feme gentlemen,
he laid, it appeared that they thought the
examination of the relative value of coins
could only be ascertained by an alfayer.—
He affirmed that any person acquainted
with the use of an hydrostatic balance
might easily examine them:—That it was
with reludtance he said any thing which
might look like a fcientific parade, but he
thought it his duty to bring forward the
inquiry he made; and what had fallen
'fraiß some gentlemen compelled him to
explain and lupport his motion.
To explain what he had said refp«£ting
the hydrostatic experiment, he observed,
that it had pleased nature, or rather the
great author of nature, to annex to moll
bodies, and particularly to metals, a dif
ferent weight: Happily each species of
substances have different weights, which,
with propriety are called their fpecific
gravities : That most happily for our pur
pofe,acubic foot of water weighs lOOOozs.
avoirdupois ; and a body when immersed
in water, displaces a mass of water equal
to the bulk of the immersed body, in dis
placing which mass of water, the body, if
suspended to a pair of scales, is found to
lose a weight exadtly equal to the weight
of the mass of water so displaced ; ib,
that if any piece of money be weighed
firft in air, and then in water, its lol's of
weight in water will be exattly the weight
of an equal bulk of water, whicli mud at
once give the comparative weight of that
piece of money and of water. And as
by this method pine gold has been found
to be about nineteen times heavier than
water, and copper nine times—which has
beengenerally th&alloy used in gold coins,
if copper be mixed iu any propoition (or
any other metal whose fpecific gravity is
known) the fpecific gravity of the com
pound may be found, and the exact pro
portion of each ingredient ascertained ;
and here I will remark, that as in the ast
eftablifning a mint, arid regulating the
coins of the United States, the proportion
offilver and copper, which are declared to
be the composition of the alloy for our
gold coins, ia not e.%aA!y fixed ; t h erc
muit be a difficulty of finding the real va
lue of that coin without an a&ual and ac
curate allay, and also room for varying its
value. But as this is happily left to" the
uiferetion of the director of the mint,
whose abilities, accuracy and integrity ate
lo remarkable, no inconvenience need be
appiehended, as there is no doubt that he
will observe the trust reposed in him,
a;iu that he will point out, from time to
time, the exact proportion of these two
ingredients of the alloy, which are left by
bill t0 h,s discretion. This I looked
»<pon as a defect in the bill, and mention
ed when it was before us the lalt session,
as a reason why I wi/lied to have it recom
mitted—but to return to the question.—
As 1 have found that the fpecific
® t e gold coins of England, France,
Spam and Poitugal was, as well as I can
«ow remember, about seventeen and an
a > and that of some German coins not
teen that is, that the former weighed
entecn and an h a ]f [J mes more t] lan an
equal mass of water, and the latter not fif
«'.i times as much, or in other words,
lat a cubic foot of the former, weighed
7.J00 oz. whilst a cubic foot of the lat
er wouM not weigh 15,000. I f ay as I
f* e tound thl6 be the cafe, I wish to
know now whether any later experiments
10 0 coins have been made to p/ove
tthe ';eisthe difference stated in the
.1 there have been such experiments
h llwnhdraw my motion, if not, I must
"lutt upon it.
_ MONDAY, December 3.
ofw^ r °^ nd J- sims > was
mto ; and, On mo
»uttM 4*. ey * was referred t0 " fele(ft com -
Km TXr. tPPOimed "*• Mcff -
Wtkh ' wit *° w of Hiz.
theiH ofc'er, killed at PenAfcot, praying
mUifcr ° f 1 PeDfion " thc -'dow of!
M? WT T read - and '«<» ou the table.
Uth P r «f«nted a petition from a
C f h " lafto ".S- C. praying
T Pif,a bankru P t ; read
•a that buC,«f 6 c onimittee already appointed
the h0 a letter
'• flan fn/tk j °i theTrcafur y. endofing a
f- h ° f tHe puHic deb '"
\opiet i-. „ g , r ™ d ' " was ordered that joo
P r ioted for the ufc of the house.
1 prcre ' lted th " p et[tion ° f E"-
SwWrZ w »« rcad and referred to Mess.
tiylveiUr, Ward and Ivicchell.
i p r ' D »y ton '» motion, laid on the table on
7 il ' Wii called U P •>/ that gentleman ;
That the Secretary of War be directed to lav
before thu houfc, a iiffc of the names oTthe per
' Circ«Tr t0 hIS ° tfice for by the
: f' i Coum > 1,1 purfuancof the ast entitled
an a<a to provide for the settlement of tne claims
' heretofore TiiM'tT' by the I,mitatio "
toTnvaS, r' '° rCgulate the ciiul "
the fJ J T ' ; togethcr with 'he rates of
ability It" thC , CaUseS a % ned dif
faA w P T ed Wuh a Sterne.* of such
Mr n C,rCUmI l anCes W rek£e
. Dayton oblerved, that he considered it
the indifpeniable duty of the legislature to en
quire into this business, in order to avoid ,m
---pofition. He held a paper in his hand conta.V
ig an account oi a number of persons admitted
on the pension lift by the Circuit Courts, on ac
countof complamts, which if they were gener
f crmZef WOU cncre afe the penfionhfUn
luch manner as tea times the present revenue
fnppon" g 3,65 W ° uM " 0t be 'o
Mr B Bourn observed, that the govern
ment had veiled a discretionary power with the
Secretary of War to check the grant ofpenfions
■n improper cases; that the Secretary was pre
panng a report on thisfubjed ; and that a full
statement of the whole business would be laid
for°tlie refolutfon. H ° ° ee^
Mr Sedgwick said he hoped nothing was in
tended by th; motion to counteract the benevo
ent news of the legislature, m the only acSt of
legislative generoficy ever exhibited by this g- 0 -
vernment, the law of the laftfeffion making par-
P r ° Vl J oa for invalids. Mr. Sedgwick
™ thou the necessary information on the
subject would come before the house in course;
but he was anxious that no steps lhould be taken,
°[ lm p r °pcr grants of pensions.
~ U l_ ratC designs of government, or divert
the jufhee and humanity of the country from a
clals of citizens who have fou e ht the battles of
, to whom the United States are so
much indebted for their present freedom and
happiness
f C Mr.W. Smith, Mr. Lawrance,
and Mr. Hilihoufe, supported the motion. It
was said that the law was found inadequate to
the purpose for which it was made; that while
m some cases it was not carried into executi
on, in others very improper grants of pen
nons had been made. Information was wanted;
this information may be obtained; the law is de
fe&ive, and ought to be revised. Justice, there
fore, to real objedh; to guard against imposi
tions, and to make that provision which the fi
nances of the country are competent to—impose
a necc-i: ty that the motion lhould be adopted. In
reply to the objection, that information would
ceme in of eourfe, from the War Office, it was
said, the motion wtnt to several points, on which
it was not the duty of the Secretary to report, .
unless he was required to do it.
Mr. Dayton's motion was agreed to. '
Mr. Boudinot, »f the committee appointed for '
the purpose, brought in i
A bill to determine the northern boundary of
the territory ceded by the date of North Caroli
na to the United States—read the firft time.
In committee of the whole, on the Secretary's
report of the estimate ©f appropriations for the
year 1793.
Mr. Sedgwick in the chair.
The committee proceeded in hearing a reci
tal from the chairman of the items in the esti
mate. The sum fpecified for the contingencies
of the war department was struck out, and a
blank left. The reading of the estimate being fi
nitfied, Mr.Fitzfimons submitted sundry resolu
tions pursuant thereto, which were read and
laid on the table. The committee then rose, re
ported progress, and had leave to fit again.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to a
scertain the fees demandable on admiralty pro
ceedings in the courts of the United States.
Mr. Dayton in the chair.
The committee made some amendments, they
then rose, and reported progress.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, December 4.
The bill for determining *he Northern
boundary of the territory ceded to t'ie United
States by the State of North-Caioiina, was
read the second time, and committed for
Thursday next.
A letter was read from the Secretary of the
Treasury, conveying the accounts of the Com
miflioners of Loans, See. pursuant to a resolu
tion of the house. These accounts were re
ferred to the committee of the whole on the
estimate «f appropriations.
The petition of Gafpar Kuhl, praying for a
pension, was read and referred to the com
mittee on similar applications.
The petition of Elijah Boftwick, presented
the last session, was referred to a feledt com
mittee, confiding of MelTrs. Sylvester, Key,
and Gtove
Order of the Day, on the Estimate of
Appropriations.
In committee of the whole—Mr. Sedgwick in
the chair.
The papers above mentioned,received from
the Secretary of the Treafurv, on which the
estimate of the expence of the Loan-Offices
was founded, were read.
The accounts of the Loan-Officers of Mas
sachusetts, New-York, Pennsylvania, Mary
land and Virginia, were particularly called
for, and read in detail. The expences of
tbefe offices were very different, owing to the
business being much greater, by reason of
transfers, in some states than in others. The
amount of the expence was generally com
plained of It was oblerved that some other
mode of doing the business ought to be adopt
215
tfierebv Several i! e 5 x '" ce occafioiied
were n-'.de i!, ? ?: te,at! »' correction,
tic'e,. eft'mate, respecting tnis ar-
d ; jila ' 5 for the CO,,tin
i«odX;i d thatthe biank >* w
c„.S' n ° i;on wa> withdrawn, a„d was f uc
That ll\-V'?!i t,,C Allowing purport—
qu ft d „ er V denl ° flhe U " l!ed Sa '« re .
<* faint "t t0 be laid bet "'e 'he Houfc
» f o^ SCOn^" U " ng " ,e ,umm '
'° J be a PWO P r. at rd tor
in the > n <-'dental, and conjetiural charges
Dte rde r anmcnt - Th " was o g b
dJltt " °r al ' ni ' fdf - and con,r " r y <o
POD t CC , otlheHoufe --' 1 w » s urged that the
the h:ld o o t ,h WOUld , betOCdll ° n ' L o*""'
the Hn f ht war department, to lay before
cordfn it ' nCCeffar y documents-l/ w ,sac:
'he UnftJd n s° VCd V th n t ' he WOrds Prcfl<itr " l of
b ' at « "tuck out of the mot.on-
Cd to lal b t , aryot War lhoUld be d
for ftrikL, " ,e , H " ofe ' &C - Thc "'otion
on th S cut was loft—and then the question
i o»,he motton as original, made, was pit and
r,n^ he rer ° lut,ons moved yesterday by Mr. Fitz
fimons e rea ead __f he V ft
oa w g u Cdt °- Thr fourlh - "Cpcaing .
reporterf 6 W " hdrawn ' The committee role and
progress.
th-« e „ r abovc Rated being reported to
tne House, was agrerd to.
Mr. F tzhmons, of the committee on the re.
funH . rcrf tary of State, relative to , he
comf ofrh^T 1 -' h r " ,e fu PP ortot lh c inter,
ouife of the l/ntted States with foreign nation.
on us; tJble reP ° rt ' Wh ' Ch WaS r " d ' and laid '
The b.ll to reimburse certain extr, expenses
Creek 7'!"" lrca "' n S°f peace' with
remind, taken in[Q confidera|ion _
liOoTn"" c had.agr-ed to fili the blank with
200 dollars, and reported accordingly.-This
Xmfe fT debate 0n thc fub j (ft - ,n which
er's wer ofthe „ a PP ' ca "0"0f the comrniflTion-
Mr n\ Cr '*} !>'■ cralln '"d-Mr. Snmpter,
onoofrd ,h' Kltc 1 hc l "' and Mr - Wtlltamfon
PP ed the report of the committee— Mr Bou
d'not Mr. MiMedge.Mr.Atnes, and M,' Page
tpokein favor of it. ®
colmi.? deftion ° n a ? rec ; n s to lhe "port of (he
uZZw— Dega " V£d - lhe d >" a " d n °«*»
AYES
Mrffrs. Am,,, Baldwin, Barnwell, Benfon
Sr'r Jk" 1 ' 1 W - I, ' ind Filifi'nons,
Gilmao Goodhue, Hctfter, Huger, Learned
Muhlenberg. Murray, Milledge, Paae, Sedgwick,
worfr'w I SM ' Tha ' d " r ' Tuck ". Wads.
worm. Ward 24.
NOES.
Meft-s. A (lie, B. Bourn, Clark, Dayton, Giles,
I Grcf ""P' Grove - Hillhoufc, Jacobs,
u ; o CC * I ' lvcrm <>™ , > Moore, Niles, Schoon
makjerj.l. Smith,,,f. Steele, Sumpter, Svlveftcr.
V—H, t White, W.lliamfon, Willis, A. Orr
-25.
A motion to fill the blank with noo dollars
was loft ; a moti.n for goo was agreed to—the
btll WH' ordetedtc be engrofled, and thru the
noulc adjourned.
Philadelphia, Dec. 5.
YeAerday the Senate and Houfc of Reprefen
tativcs of the Commonwealth of Pcnufylvania
met at the S*ate-houfe in this city.
The superior court of New-Jtrfey, held at
Trenton Uft month, conferred the degree ofSer
geant at_ Law on EiiAia Boudmot and Joseph
Bloomfield, Efqrs.
It mentioned in the North-Carolina Jour
nal of thf 14th inft. that depredations arc daily
committed by the Indians in the vicinity of
NaOiville—and that a military force was col
le&ed under Gen. Sevier, who was *bout to
march imo the Indian country, fr*m whole ex
ertions an ufiporiant blow waa expe&ed.
The Lts;ht House on Cape Henry was light
ed the seventeenth of' November.
Extra?! from a letter dated Amfleriam, Sept. 27,
• —- ■ ■ - JL A , . i-L.n - C_u D . .L.*
i 79 2 - received by the Chejlerjield Packet.
" The French affaiis grow daily more feri
ous ; ihe Pruflian army has advanced beyond
Ch»lofis» which waa rhe principal rendezvous of
the French, who retreated in great difoider.—
The Duke of Brunfwick approaches Paris, by
Aon' and cautious marches, and it is imagined he
will rcach it about the lft of O&ober ; riois and
the mod abominable rneafures continue in that
devoted city. As the Pruflians approach, it is
expe&ed the mob will become more outrageous,
that the rr.urder of the King and Queen cannot
be prevented, and that the city will probably
be plundered and destroyed. The new national
convention has aflcmbjed and declared itfelf
constituent ajij supreme, they however submit
to the mob in every thing, and fanflion their
vile proceedings. The armies have had several
actions, in which the undisciplined French have
been generally worsted. As th' Friend of Li
berty, I weep over the fate of that unhappy
people."
Extrafl of a letter from Majfathufitts, dated OSoier
»3> '79 2 '
" It is happy for the union tliatthe northern
States are tranquil, and firm in support of the
government. I cannot but hope the mal-con
tents are a small minority in any of the states.
Theciiftra&ions in the government of France,
I wilh may be a warning to Americans.—
Unhappy Frenchmen, what will be their
fate? Unless Providence, by unexpected e
vents, check the natural course of things, the
confederate kings with their armies, may im
pose on the French just \Vhat.i'orm of govern
ment they chafe. Their aflembly always ap
peared very destitute of men oi abilities, and
for a long time past they stem to have been
governed by the mob oi I'arij.—- How
'nen at filled oui' Nati ( . cl,ni i J ° rcd
'"«*Con gr e,s,:c: N Nt7 t C i;Ur.Venti<,n
public benefit. T i e f. at '- to ß rcat
ttiefr nJi' ,'£ ey lO : hear '° »>»<h wh«
own "nd ih° ri "T ,ht ' r
held \T ll)Cm "lf ,he V wcre D; " '■<> t*
el'a, l 0 ° n rr n , v acc " um - D,d -y «*"««»
tiun to iiv 8 r , cvcr '"•* a P a ' li " n
«»«> to lay, wuh a late vvrifrr «* a 1 j
XmTAZ'"-- 6 10
The argument in falh.on T)lal ,
be■ fa-rhful as Vicc Prei.de,„ the o
fe!l r Onhtibhori ' Who hlJ ' ds firit
of a Const T" C " H ™P t and v.ol a uo„
Constitution he pretends to refpeft It
would be too much that one rat „ saM have
the marring of two Conftit u ri ons
of S /T ra /' i ate L WriterS h «e«fTumed the signature
,hat n,i & ht lead 10
(hrw wh » <°« of fedc
c)' »re.-Read their pieces and the,,
Tl/ n » »"fiake. A aaijtrm hieralifi . re
pull,can federal] and an anti-fe&aHflXlu pas,
for the lame ln the twilight olTtuth. P
[Intended for our /ast Gazette. 1
From what quauer of the Union (alks a cor.
respondent) f pi i ngs the opposition to the re-elec
eTub ic^ A st dara! ? Fr ° m those ftat " where
republican tnftitut.ons abound f Where, to use
h!r ™ and " Uly re P u h'tcan language of
b t confident patriot, the mean, of k„Llfd£
are so umverfally dominated,not one kuln
n'TtZ l" bro ' J i kt *P 'n ignorance
P . fpr'ng tr„m those patriots who are the
belt acqu,,nted w„h the whole teflor of thai
gcntl.man s political career, through the «rdu
us conflict of this country, tor all that refcn
wish m° h °'s ' V ft ' ma, '° n ? Do " " o «S'<>"e
fnerdw" I have d-iflingui (hed themfrlves a,
Url » th< ; equal rights of nrro, either in pit.
itfelf im'th" C ? th ' ! °PP° r " ion mamfeft
me L C Wh ° can P°>»<°ut the
f, r,' a """J' o "' wh<rn the y ever fugeefted,
fcioufly or honclt.; supported any*
zrea, hnrt f P™" 10 ""!! lhe '"'"efts of the
g at body of the people, by diffufing light and
o/rrrr amo, "^ hrr "' lhrou gh the medium
Of publ.c femnune, of learning? Doe, it ap.
pear on the part oftheoW and (rc>rfrepublicans-»-
or can 11 be traced to the compatri.t, of Mr
Adams in a (ingle mftance ?_Thefe queries muflr
be anlwered in the negative. The inference ls
plain. Let not the people be deceived by ibe
peaous pretence, to patriotism of those who
tcck t° ocfiroy their confidence in the long tried
and faithful guardians of the public libei ty.
It must be acknowledged by every one, that
the mtans of happiness were in the power of
the people of the United States, jirmVw to the
au r picions event of adopting the cotftitutim,
to as g'eat an extent as they now are—but
the most stubborn adversary of the measures
of the general government which have called
those means into exercise and effect, will not
aflert that no change for the better has taken
place.
NOTICE to MARINERS.
That on Thyrfday morning last, the 18th inft.
the Lanthern of the l.ight-houfe on Tvber, took
fire, and was entirely conlimed, iu confluence
of which unfortunate accident, rio light can ap
pear for some time. It is expe&ed that the
building will soon be repaired, of which due
notice will bp given.
Lately died in New-York, Dr. James Coos
wel l —a man, whose virtues and abilities mak.e
his death a public loss.
P.iCKET NFWS.
Just at the time the Pruflians were near ftarv-
ln g;
The Duke and all his Auftrians near Bur-
goyn'd;
Just as the French this state of things obferv-
ing;
Laid down their arms themselves, and
chang'd their mind.
Just at this moment fails the luckless
And now the lies make a confounded racket-
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 21f
3 per Cents, 12/4
Deferred, 1 gj
Full (hares Bank U. S. 45 per cent, prem,
$ Shares, 56
TO DISTANT SUBSCRIBERS.
(£3" A recent regulation at the Poft-Office,
requiring that newspapers should be left there
the Day bcjorc they are to be dispatched, will
prevent this Gazette from leaving the city by
Weduefday's post, av usual—till a new arrange-
men;.
Savannah, Nov. 17AT A MEETING OF THE
Insurance Company
NORTH-AMERICA,
Held, by adjournment, at the Siaie-Houfe in ibis
Cny, on the tgih inft. the following PLAN,
report d by tneir Committee, was unani
mously agreed to, and adopted as the
CONSTITUTION of the SOCIETY.
J, r I !;■)£ fubfciibers agree to form themselves
X into a focteiy under ihe name of PHE
INSURANCE COMPANY OF NOR 1 PI
AMERICA, for the puipofc of carrying on the
bulinefs ol alTurance, and for ra.fing a lund to
nay and fatisfy any loff-.s which may happen, or
any juit demands which may be made upon the
said focieiy.
II The (aid fublcribcrs do leverally, that is
to fay, each lor h.mfelf, or herfetf, his or her
heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, here
by covenant, promtfe and agree, to and with
each and every other ol the-fuofcribcrs, their
and e.ich and evt ry of their heirs, ext-cutors, ad
miniftratou and allign., and to and with all and
every person and perfous who (hall hereafter be
comeaffurcd in the office of the company, to do,
fulfil and pel form each and every of the articles
of this afiociation, and such other articles as
(hall hereafter from tune to time be made and
agreed upon by (lie members of this allocation
at any ol their general meetings: Provided ne
vertkelefs, That no subscriber, or his or her al
(igtiee, (hall be bound, or held relpunfible to the
other subscribers.or any of them, their or any
of their assigns, or to any per(on or perfous who
(hall become assured by the company, for any
Cum or sums ol money or other charge whatso
ever exceeding 1 lie amount of his or her (hare
or interefl in this aflociation.
111. The capital (lock of The Insurance Com
pany of North-America shall not exceed fix
hundred thousand dollars ; and (hall be divided
iut,o sixty thousand lhares, ot ten dollars each ;
and a subscription towards conftituiwig iuch
stock Ihall be opened in the city ot Philadei
phia'on the aoth day of November, 179?., under
the infpeftion of Ebenezcr Hazard, and fha'l
continue open until the whole of the said stock
ftiall have been fubfcubed,
IV. Any person or persons, copartnerfoip or
;>ody politic, fnay subscribe to this afToeiatton ;
and the (hares lubfcribed Ihall be paid for by
inftaiments as follows; that is to fay,
For each and every share fubfciibcd, there
Ihall be paid —
One Dollar at the time of subscribing,
One Dollar on the 2d Monday of July, 1793,
Two Dollars on the 2d Monday of January,
*794-
Two Dollars 011 the 2d Monday of July, 1794.
Two Dollars on the 2d Monday of Januaiy,
*795-
And two Dollars on the 2d Monday of July,
*795-
Pfovided, That until the twelfth day of De
cember next, the payment ot the full instalment
shall be made in the receipts issued by the og nts
anrl secretary ol the late Universal Tontine As
sociation ; and alter the (aid twelfth day of De
cember, no person lhall fubfenbe for a greater
number of fhaies than twenty.
And the monies so paid (hall be vested in such
securities of the United States, or of the state of
Pennsylvania, or in the stock of the bank of the
United States, or of the bank of North-Ame
iica,as shall bythe Board of Dire£tois be thought
nioft advifeable.
V. If any fubferiber or other owner of any
(hare or (hares, shall neglect to pay any one of
the instalments on the day before appointed for
the payment thereof, such fubferiber or other
owner shall forfeit all the monies which (hall
have been paid on account of such (hares; and
Ihall moreover forfeit all his or her right, title,
interrft, claim and demand, resulting from such
fharcs, of, in r and to the funds of this alTociation,
and the privileges thereof All monies so for
feited (hall enure to the use and benefit of the
company.
VI. Every fubferiber to these articles, his or
her afligoee, or other legal representative, (hall
be considered as being to all intents and pur
poses, a member of The lufurance Company of
North-Amejica ; arid all (hares held in the fame
lhali be transferable} in such manner, and "under
such regulations as the Dire&ors of the Compa
ny shall determine and direst.
VII. For the well ordering and conducing
the affairs of the company, there (hall be fifteen
t>ire£>ors chosen by ballot,on the 2d Tuesday of
January tn each year, by the Stockholders, by
plurality of votes; and the Directors so chosen.
shall serve as such until the expiration of the 2d
Tuesday of January next ensuing such elt&ion,
and no longer : Provided, Th*t as soon as forty
thousand (hares shall have been fubferibed, no
tice thereof (hall be given by the said Ebtnezer
Hazaid, in at least two of the ncwfp;ipers pub
lished in the city of Philadelphia ; and the fa»d
Ebenezer Hazard (hall at the fame time and in
like manner, notify a day not more than ten
days diftmi from the date of such notification,
for proceeding to theelcthoTi of Directors, ai a
place in the city of Philadelphia, to be therein
fpecified : At which time and place the cleftion
Ihall be made, and the persons then chofcn (hall
be* the firft Directors, and shall forthwith Com
mence the operations of The Insurance Com
pany of North-Ami lira. They shall continue
in office until the 2d Tuesday of January next
ensuing their election.
VIII. Tke D:rctlors ebofen as aforefaid shall
at their firft m -tug, el.ct by ballot, one of
their number to be l'refid<nt of the compam,
and shall then divide thtrnfelves (excluding the
President) into committee.', e.ch committee to
confifl of iwo DneSors. The said committees
(hall attend at the office ot the comuany every
week, in rotation; and the attending commit
tee, with th. Pirfident, (who (hall »lfo atiend
daily at the office) (hall fme full power and au
thority, in the name and on behalf of the com
pany, to make such insurance* upon vcffels and
merchandize at sea, or going to sea, or upon the
lite or lives ot any perfun or peifons, or upon
.any goods, wares, merchandize 01 other pro
perly gone 01 going by land or by water j and
at such rates of mfuraricc, or premium, as they
flitll deem advifcable. A::d the) Ihall, geuc
rally, do and tranfaft, on behalf of tic compa
ny, all the bufioefs usually attending insurances
on ihe objrfls aforelaid ; fubjedl, nc'enlielels,
to such regulations as the Stockholders at any
general meeting (hall think proper to ir.akc; and
lubi<-tt also to such rules and regulations as the
Board ol Direttors (ball, fiom time to time
make, relating to the bufioefs ol the company.
Uiuil the company (ball be legally incorpo
rated, all notes, deeds, or other securities taken
for the use of the company* (ball be tJken in the
name of the President, as luch ; and all policies
(hall be signed by the Pieftdent, as such ; and
such signing (hall be deemed and taken to be
the ast of each member of (he company, and
tor which the President (hall not be liable to
any peculiar perlonal responsibility ; and, in
order to prevent dilutes, there (ball be inferred
in every policy, a claule or covenant purporting
ihat the allured confideis the Prffident asafchng
on behalf of the company, and icleafes him 11 om
all perlonal refponfibiluy on account of such sig
nature. But when the company lhal! have been
legally incorporated, ihe policies shall pass un
der the seal of the corporation, and be attested
by their Secretary.
The President (hall lay before the Board of
Directors, at each of iheir meetings, an account
of the proceedings of the communes since the
last meeting of the Board.
IX. There shall be stated meetings of the
Board of Due&ors once in every foiteight, and
occasional meetings at such other times a# the
President shall think p'Oper : At all which meet
ings the President shall preside, but shall have
no vote on any question, except in cafe of an
equality of votes, in which cafe he (hall have
the calling voice.
Two thirds of the whole number of Direc
tors, whereof the President shall be one, fhali
form a quotum ; and all qucftious before the
Board lhall be decidfd by a plurality of votes :
But no vote shall be u-confricred by a less
number than was present when luch vote paifed.
X. The Board of Diredois shall have power
to employ such and so many officers, cle'ki iod
other afliftams, as they (hall from time to lime
find neceirary, and to tnake and reasonable
compensations to the pcrfon.s inployed by them.
They (hall also have power to establish rales and
regulations for transferring shares in the com
pany's stock, and for the management of the
company's concerns.—They shall
generally, the whole bulinefs of the company,—
shall examine the proceedings of the committees,
and all officers employed ; —they shall keep fair
minutes of their own proceedings, and submit
the fame to the infpe&ion of the Stockholders at
every of their stated general meetings.
XI. The Stockholders (hall meet together on
the second Tuesday of January in every year, af
ter the firft election of Dire&ors, for the pur
pose of examining int© the foliation of the com
pany's affairs, and for making such additional
and other rules and regulations as they (hall
judge ; —and in all questions coming
before such meetings, as well as in the choice of
Directors, they lhall refpe£tivcly vote according
to their several interests in the company's (lock,
in the following ratio ; that is to fay,
Every member (hall be entitled to one vote
for each share of (lock he or she (hall hold :
Provided, That no member shall have more than
fifty votes : And provided also, That no propKe
tor of stock shall vote at any cle&ion for Direct
ors (after the firft) unless the stock (hall have
stood in his own name on the company's books
three months next preceding the time of such
ele&ion. But any member may vote either for
Directors, or upon any other business, by his
proxy duly authorifid ; and every rule, ordi
nance and regulation made at any such meetings,
(hall be binding on each member of the society
as fully to ail intents and pni poses as if each and
every member were personally present, and con
senting thereto.
XII. In cafe ot the sickness or necelTary ab
sence of the President, his place shall befupplied
by such other Dire&or as the Board ihall ap
point for that purpose
XIII. No Director shall be entitled to any
emolument unless the fame shall be agreed to at
a general meeting of the Stockholders; but the
company shall allow the President a reasonable
compensation for his extraordinaiy attendance
on thei^bufinefs.
XIV. The Dttcftors (hall on the fid Mon
day of January and the firft Monday of July
rclpe&ively in every year, declare a dividend of
so much of the profits of the society as to them
shall appear advifeable ; and the dividend so de
clared, shall be paid to the refpedtive proprie
tors in seven days after the fame (hall be so made.
—But the monies received as premiums on
nfques wh-ch (hall be undetermined and ouU
(landing at the time of making such dividend
shall not. be considered as a part of the profits of
the company. And in cafe of any loss or lofl'es
whereby the capital stock of the society IhaU be
jeftcned, no subsequent dividends Ihall be made
until a sum equal to such diminution, and ari
fingfrom the profits and interests of the society,
(hall have boen added to the capital.
XV. Tlk' company (hall hold no real cftate
other than such as (hall be neccflary lor the con
venient tranfaflion of their bnlinel's at (hall
be bona fide mortgaged to them by way ol se
curity ; —or conveyed to them in fatisfa&ion of
debts ; or purchased at falcs upon judgments
which (ball have been obtained upou debts due
to them.
XVI. Anymemberof the Insurance Corn
pan; of North-America, may at any time be
come allured by the company, on any ship or
veflel, goods, merchandize or lives, in the fame
manner, and to the fame tSc», » s if futb num
ber had no intcrcft in the company.
Extratt jrom the minutts,
EBENhZER HAZARD, Sccrctary.
Philadelphia, November igth, 1792.
ADVERTISEMENT.
%-TThii Gazette :s pubhjhedin North Ei/th-Slreet,
No. 34, between lltgh and Mulberry Streets—inhere
the Editor neaj resides.
A LARGE CELLAR TO LET,
Sufficiently capacious to /loreJtveralhundred bar?els.
Enquire as above.
iPf The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars
per annum—One h»!j to be pa.id at tie time offub
fcribing. JJ
216
Agreeably to. the Seventh Atiicl# erf tkAr
Constitution,
■NOTICE IS HER&My GIVEN,
TO the Membcy of the Infurw Company of
Noith-Amtrlai. ,th»t Forty Tiioufapd Shares
are fubferibed; and that a General Meeting*>t
the Subfcribera is to be held at the State-House
in this city, on 10th iuft. at 10 o'clock, A. M.
when the Dire&ors ar? to be cbofen.
SBEN£ZER HAZARD,Secretary.
The holders of Certificates in t)ie la,te
Tontine A(lociati«n, who intend to become
members of the Insubancb Company, are
desired to call at No. 145, Arch-llreet, where
their fubftriptions will be received, and a pre
fer«n*: tothero, until the iath in#.
bank ok the united states.
Phi lad el mi a, November 10, 179 a.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
Slates are heteby infotmed, that according
to thefta+ute of incorporation, a general el r 6110:1
for twenty-five Diteftors will be held at the Bank
cf the United Siaies, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Mouday the seventh day of January next, at
ten o'cock in the forenoon.
And purfuan to the eleventh feftion of the
Bye-Laws,the Stockholders of the said Bank aie
hertbylnoiified to assemble in general meeting
at the lame place, on Tuesday the eighthday of
January uext, at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President and Directors,
JOHN KEAN, Cafbier.
EOWEN-'-s EXHIBITIONS OF
Wax-Work&Paintings,
ARE open every day and evening (Sundays
excepted) at the House lately occupied
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eighth-ftreetv
First Room—Contains upwards of 100
elegant Paintings, and about 30 Wax Figures,
in full flature—among which are Likenefles
of a number of the principal chara&ers in
America ; Baron Trenck tu chains, an Indian
Chief, andfeveral beautiful young Ladies of
different States, <stc. &c.
Second Room—Contains eighteen large
Wax Figures, which form a Sociable Club,
or the Oyster Supper ; and the School for
Scandal, confining of twelve female Figures,
making their observations 011 a young Lady,
who had eloped with a Footman.
Admittance One Quarter of a Dollar each
Room.
TO BE SOLD,
A Plantation,
LYING on the river Delaware, miles above
Trenton, containing 165 acrcs ; whereon is.
a d weliing-houfe, pleasantly situated, 36 by 24 feet,]
hiving three rooms with fire-places on the lower
floor, and four above, one of them with a fire
place ; a kitchen adjoining, near to which is a re
ma«kable laige fpiingof excellent water, accom
-1 modated with a good spring-house ; a bam 36 feet
by 26; a waggon, chaii and smoke-houses, besides
other ufeful out-buildings ; a large orchard, chiefly
of grafted fruit. The farm is well watered, and
has a proportion of wood and meadow land, thro*
which the road runs that is known by the name
of the River Road.
On the Premises is also ere&ed,
A Grift-Mill,
In the midst of a good wheat country, on a never
failing stream ; the mill-house is 54 by 24 feet,
has one water-wheel, a pair of burrs and a pair of
Cologne stones, rolling screen, bolls for merchant
and country work, 6cc. and is accommodated with
a cooper's (hop, 18 feet square, near the mill —
which is *' out 300 yards trom the Delawaie, and
very conveniently situated to receive wheat, &c.
fron\ boats pafling down the river.
There are also for Sale,
20 Acresof Wood-Land,
within less than a quarter of a mile of the above
mentioned Plantation, which lies in a fine hich
healthy country.—For teims apply u> the sub
scriber on the premises.
OBtAer y 179 1,
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-street, New-York, |
HP 1 HE Subfcriher intending to confine himfelf:
X entirely to the PURCH ASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Bfgsleave 10offer
his fervtces to his Friends and others, in theiinc
of a Stock Broker. Those who may plea fe to fa
vor him with their bufniefs, may depend upon
I having iuranfa£led with the ulmoft fidelity and
dispatch.
Ordersfrom Philadelphia.Boston, orany other
part of the United States will be itriftly attend
ed to.
Ma\ 2,
To the Public.
THE fubferihe*- begs leave to acquaint the pub
lic in genera), and his cuftomeis in particu
lar, that he has entered into partnership with
Mr. HENRY KAMMERER, and that the Print
ing bufinels in the English and German languages
is uow carried on under the firm of STEINER
and KAMMERER, No, 85, in Racc-ftrect, be
tween Sccood and Third-streets.
The Go man Newspaper will be published by
them, as usual, on 1 uefdays, and all kind of Print
ing work done with care and expedition.
MELCHIOR STEINER
Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 179 a.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON &SOUCHONO
Of the very fit ft quality, and iateft iniportatioi
from Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chcfnut and Market Streets.
N. B. A Jcuj Boxci of the above HYSON Jorfa'ie.
JOHN MOTT.
( law 4 l )
LEONARD BLEECKER.
M-)
B O OK S, '
PRINTED A NO SOLD BY
MATHEW CAREY
A'o. i 18, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
i. A MERICANMUSEUM,f.omiisc«w»h, ft
IX tnciit .11 January 1787, to June 1702 '
eleven vols. Pace, neatly bound and lJuitA
feventecn dollars and thiei filths. 1
1 his work, which is now cortduflcd on an i m
proved plan, containing the heft pieces publilhrrt
for and against the proceedings of govuniwr
will be found to contain at leaft'as great a vanc '
of political, agricultural, Sod miscellaneous til
as any ever publifhcd in America, IV,hajWj,,i,j
one work aie so many valuahledocurti' nts refprt'j
ing the history of this coumry, colleSed togciher*
His Excellency the Prefidcni of the United Siai„'
has declared of it, that '« a more Ofefuj liter ry
plan has never been undertaken in America.,,;,'
one more defcrving ot public cncoiirageoicdi, l
The fubfeription is two dollars and a hail if
ann. Gentlemen in the country who will, , 0
be supplied with this work, are requeftcd to vivt
commiflion 10 friends in the city to fubfcnbrtor
and receive it- Any ol the back number
may be had in order to complete sets.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women,ori Nurf.
ing arid the management of Children.
" We recommend theft letters to the pfrvf?lnf
those to whom they are'particularly addicted."-.
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101—Price, buuud
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—73 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—so crnis.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mrft
More's EfTays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning,
ton's Advice, Marchioncfs of Lambert's Advice
Swift's Letter to a newly married Ladv,Mrs.Ch>-
pone on command ot Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Prrce 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Piiceadol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by
tie, L. l D. profelfor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marilehal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay ; 41 We
have seen nothing on theftr fubje&s more plaio,
more perspicuous, 01 more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univerfityin Phi.
! ladclphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four.filths of.a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
11. Nccker'sTreatife on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bihs of a dollar.
13. The Conltituiionso/ the several United States,
with the Federal Conftitutiori, &c. Price fivc«
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Pricethree-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jefl Book. Price three-fihhs of
16. G
11a do'jarden of the Soul. Pi ice half a dollar.
17 The Do way Translation of the Vulgate iii
bl , in quarto— Price, elegantly bound and lettci
ed, £0/2— plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecura—Price*
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Prise a quarter dollar.
20. Christian Economy, Pr ice a fifth of a dollar.
21. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Piiccatfctul
of a dollar.
23. Select Poems, chiefly Amcricao—Piicea
sixth of a dollar.
Said Cariy has for sale, 3 large affortincnt
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the most leafonable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, m3y depend upon being fupplicd i*
ihe moll faiisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to Tuch as purchafc quantities for public ÜbrancJ
,or to fell ag.iin.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
BOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & CROMBANK.
John Gould,
HAIR-DRESSER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in
ral, that he continues to carry onhis buiinefs
as usual, at No I, South Third-Street, near
Market-Street,and thanks his former cuftom*'S
for the favors he has received.
Said Gould has for sale, an infallible cure for
Weak or Sore Eyes, which on trial, has and v.i
he found to anlwer the purpose.—-He has it 1*
vials from one quarter of a dollar to a dollar—
Any person trying the above, if not f°u n ° J*
answer the character given, the money wl e
returned. t"J
TO EE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
An alphabetical list of ftjH"
payable on all Goods, Wares and Merchan
dize imported into the United Statei; ex i ' in h
rhr Rates payable on those impo.ted in 2>h.ps o
VelTels of the United States, and in Foreign W P
or Veffeli; including the additional Duties
which the refpeflive Articles aic liable.
ALSO,
A TABLE for receiving and P»y'"?
jrradunttd according to £aw—BUn* < an
And Blanks for the varioui Powers o A
iKceffary in tranfa&ing Bunncfs at the r >
n the Bank of the United Stales.
Pr The JOURNAL of the
tf the SEN At of the UNITED *■>! •
i.adoj the Edittr hereof.