A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 28, of Vol. IV.]
PRICE CURRENT. DUs.cu. DlU.ct<.
r. , Oil, Ditto nr. cafe, 250
*%*. bl-ant,tv.—Dollars 100 Cents each. S wce t, belt, in flalk»,pr.box 10 5 o
PHILADELPHIA, September 5. Ditto balkets, 12.bottles 5
——Spermaceti pr. gall. 48
Dlls.Cts. Dlh.Cts. Train ,24 27
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7 8 Whaie 24 26
Allum, EnglilH, pr.cwt. 4 67 Por[cr pr Cjlk
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. ,1 lo ndbn, pr.doz. 160
Ashes, pot, per ton, 90 too „ American rt tto bot.iacl. 1 4 1 6or
T~T ' „ 137 ' 4 ° , pi "h, P-'- bbl. .73 2
rrac pr. ga 133 16, Pork, Burlington, per barrel, n 11 33
Brandy, common, l -Lower county 10
Coniac l 20 Carolina 9
Braziletto, pr. ton. 32 34 Peas, Albany pr. Lufhcl 73
Bricks, pr. M. 5 7 Pepper, pr. lb. 37
Bread, ship, pr. cwt. 1 67 2 Pimento 16
Ditto, P'lo' 3 R a isi ns bed, pr. keg 9
D.tto, small water per keg 36 4° Ditto pr. iar 25s
Beer, Americans.,, bottles Ul|to , J box 0
pr.doz. bottles, ..eluded, >4» R, ce pr.cwt. 250 267
D.ttopr barrel, 4 Rosin pr. bar,el 233 267
Boards Ceaar pr M feet, ,b Rum, Jamaica, pr. gallon ~8 .22
New England „ Antigua
W , £ 9 Windward 83
Merchantable p,ne .6 ,7 Barhadlics g,
?° P ,' V 8 Country, N. E. 67
• Mahogany, per toot 10 ,
T . , n ~ Salt petre, pr. cwt. 14 33
The above are the Gallop prices, Saffafras pr. ton 6 8
fortheyard price, add i dol- shot r dUto :
'ar 33 cents per .000, Steel, German pr. lb. 9
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. 333 Englifh,bliftered, pr. cwt. 10
Beef, Boston, per bar,el 8 American pr. ton :i3 33
\* Country ditto 6 7 Crowley's or. fuggot 10 67
Fielh, per cwt. 3 33 4 67 "make root pr. lb. acr 42
Butter pr. lb. 16 Soap, Brown per lb. 6 ,
in kegs 9 ic While 8
Candles, Sperm, pr. lb. 4', ' Castile 11
Wax i 3 Vt S . tarch ?
Myrtle Wax Snufi pr. doz. bot. 4 i bo
Mould, tallow 11 Spermaceti, refined, pr. lb. 48
Dipped I 0 Sailcloth, Englilh,No.i,pr. yard, 28
Cheele, Englilh, pr. lb. U) Boston, No. I. ditto 30
Country 8 ic T °* "9
Chocolate 17 iB Su S :,r Lump, pr.lb 24
Cinnamon 267" Loaf, single refined 26
Cloves 1 £C Ditto, double do. ' 36
Cocoa pr. cwt. 1, Havannah, white 17 18
Coffee pr.lb. 18 19 Ditto, brown, 12
Coal pr. bulhel 20 22 Muscovado. pr. cwt 13 2567
Copperas pr.cwt. , g ? Spirits Turpentine pr. gallon 33 37
Coinage, American, per evi t. 767 8 Salt, Allum pr. bulhel 24 2,
Cottjon pr. lb. 26 4c Liverpool 29
Cui rants ,3 Cadiz 53 24
n 1. t> rr- Lisbon 25 27
uc - uTia, pr. piece it 33 Ship build. W. O, frames p. ton, 12 13 33
averts 893 967 q uio jj ve Oak, 15 33 16 67
Dutch fa,l duck, .8 20 Qitio red cedar, per foot 33 40
Feathers pr. lb- 40 44 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 233 267
Flax- ditto 11 12 Ditto 2 feet, 5 33 6
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 85 9 r Ditto 3 feet, dreflcd, 12 15
Flour, Superfiue pr. barrel 4 93 Staves, Pipe pt. 1000 29
Common, 4 8c White Oak hogshead, 19 33
Bur middlings, best 3 73 Red Oak do. 19 50
Meal, Indian 2 52 Leogan 21 33
ditto Rye, ' 2 40 Barrel 10
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. 80 1 Heading 26 6 7
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Skins, Otter, best pr. piece 4 67
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 467 " Minks SO f
Do. pr. gall. 8c Fox, grey 4 o 80
Glue, pr.cwt. 2» 21 y. Ditto led t 20
Ginger, white race, per cwt. 7 Martins 24 1
Ditto, common 7 Fishers 33 7
Ditto, ground pr.lb. 8 Bears 3
Ginseng, 20 24 Racoons 27 60
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.calk, 373 4 f Mulk-rats it 20
Ditto, fine glazed 4 3caver, pr. lb. 67 1 33
Grain, Wheat pr. bush 80 89 Dcei.inhair ao 30
Rye 47 Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 1 20
Oats ifc Carolina, 32 gall. 1 33 1 67
Indian corn 44 Turpentine pr. bbl. 1 67 2
Barley * 9c Tobacco, J. River, bell loolb. 360 373
Best (helled pr. lb. 3 inferior 2 67 3
Buckwheat, per bulh. 4c old 4 67
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 120 146 67 Rappahannock 2 50 3
American, pr. lb. 4 s Coloured Maryland, 5 33 8
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 Dark, 2 40
Hides, raw pr. lb, 9 "11 Long- eat 2 40
Hops 2- Eaftern-lhore 2 2 23
Hoglhcad hoops, pr. M. 1, Carolina, new 2 7 3
_ ~ -old, 27 3
Indigo, French per lb. 1 20 t 32 Tea, Hyson pi. lb. 93 1 28
Carolina 60 t Hyson fk n, 53 67
Irons, lad pr. ton, 133 33 Souchong, 50 93
Iron, Callings pr. cwt, 34: Congo, 43 " 50
Bar pr.ton, 82 6 Bohea, 31 33
2 4 67 fallow, refined, per bl. q
NaiTrods 1 96 33 Tin pr ' b ° X ' 13 33 1367
Junk, pr.cwt. 4 5 Verdigreafe pr.lb. 47 ,53
Lard, hogs pr. lb. * 9 ic Vermillion, do. 133 167
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 533 5 67 Varnilh, per gallon 33 37
in bars 7 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 200
white 10 10 67 Lisbon 120 126
~ rcc * 640 6 6 Teneriffe, pr. gallon 63
Leather, foal, pr. lb. 17 2 c Fayal 52
Lignum vita: pr. ton, 6° 6 Port pr. pipe 113 33
Logwood 24 Ditto in bottles, pr.doz. 4
Mace pr.lb. 7 33 7 6 Claret 4 6
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. ' 9 Sherry pr.gall. 90 1 20
• fcond quality 6 67 Malaga 77 80
Madder, best pr. lb. 16 2c Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 27
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 133 2 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
Mast spars ditto >io 6:
Molafles pr.gall. 44 5 c COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Mustard per. lb. 8; On London, at 30 days, per ioo£ . fterl. 453 33
— -flour, in bottles, pr.doz. 12c a ' 60 days 450 67
Nails, Bd. lod.\id. and 20<i. pr.lb. ic , a \aL -ij
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 60 days, pr. guilder, 41
. . ' 90 days, 4c
Oil, Linseed, pr. gall. $5 6' Government bills, drawn at 10
~ Olive • days, per 11 guilders, none at market.
Wednesday, September 5. 1792.
109
FOR .'HE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES
REPRESENTATIVES in CONGRESS
[The following remarks appear in xhe Herald
of Vek mont —they are ingenious, liberal,
national—and having particular relation to the
important subjeCt of Representation, can
not be too extensively known. — The Author of
the Essays under the fignaturr of C. therefore
offers them as a substitute for No. 5, of his own
writing—fully convinced thatihe performance
w il meet the approbation of every candid
reader.J
IT is of great importance, that the commu
nity ihould be properly represented. The
true principles of representation require, that
every interest, which is of national consequence,
ftiould be proportionably represented in the Le
gislature. The interests of Arts, Sciences,
Agriculture, Commerce and Manufactures,have
an equal claim to attention. On a due atten
tion to all these, depends the highest prosperity
of a nation. Agriculture is, perhaps, the firft,
and rvjft extensive interest ; but it can hardly
e.xift t ithotit th * aid of some inanufa<sture^—it
can never flourifh in any country, without the
aid both of manufactures and commerce, by
which the tiller of the ground is enabled to ex
change his fuperfiuous productions for necefla
ries or conveniences, not otherwise within his
reach. It is the great business of legrflation, to
compromise the seeming opposition or' tiicfe in
terests, to give to each its due weight in the na
tional scale, and by this mean to render them,
as designed by Providence, reciprocally subser
vient to each other. As important as the in
terest of Agriculture is to society, it would be
not only unjust, but extremely pernicious to
the whole, to facrifice every other interest: to
this principal interest. Men, whose occupations
place them in one particular interest, may un
derstand it simply, and yet never have attended
to all its connections, so as to be able toeftimate
its jnft importance to society. All men, where
their immediate interest, or that of their class
is concerned, are subjeCt to a degree of delusion.
They are disposed to appreciate it too highly.
Such, however, are the men of whom legislatures!
inuft generally be composed; and thus the Intc-j
reftr., sentiments, manners, and pallions of the i
people, to which every law ought to be accom
modated, are individually brought forward to
discussion.
The science of legislation, in its failed extent,
comprehends a thorough knowledge of the prin
ciples of the government; of the manners, sen
timents, paftjons, and iuterefts of the people;
of the pursuits pointed out by the nature of
their situation ; of the means both of acquisition
and enjoyment; a knowledge of all national re
lations and connexions, internal and external;
of the moral, natural, and political influence of
measures. This science is exactly similar to I
the science of natural philosophy, in which, lit
tle or nothing can be known, without actual
experiment and observation ; without a clear
knowledge of causes, fubjefh and cffe&s, in all
their vast variety of combinations. It is evi
dent, that few men will be found to poflefs such
an extent and variety of knowledge. The de
ficiency mult be supplied by the knowledge
which individuals may acquire, of particular
parts. Each will have acquired a degree of
knowledge of those matters in which he is most
converfaut- He whose circle in life is more
confined, will be more confined in his know
ledge. He who is led to a<st in a more extensive
circle, comprehending a greater variety of ln
terefts, manners, and lentiments, will have a
more extensive knowledge, a greater fund of
that information, which is neceflary in legisla
tion.
No one interest ought to be negle&ed, or fa
crificed to another. No profeflion of men, no
class of citizens ought to be proscribed, no single
interest: toengrofs the dire&ion of national mea-
lures.
If* there be, among the class of Farmers,
Physicians, Merchants, Lawyers, or Manufac
turers, any men of known integrity of life, and
of more general information, who are able fully
to clilcern the importance of the several inter
ests, and their mutual connection in promoting
the national welfare, certainly narrow preju
dices ought not to deprive the people of the use
of such abiiities. Such men cannot fail to be of
the greatest fcrvice in a legislature, • Is not the
present prosperity of these States to be, in a
good measure, attributed to an attention to
these principles in the choice of Representa
tives? A FREEMAN.
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT.
ExtraCt of a letter from Bucks County.
" Last year we had no apples in this neigh
bourhood—the present year God has blessed us
with abundance, but an insolent Excife-Oflicer
is placed over us to prevent our making use of
this bounty of Heaven, as we think best—This
is the boasted liberty of the Federal Govern
ment." {Phi I ad. hid. Gaz.)
Such grievances are not a little ridiculous.—
u Last year we had no apples; this year God
has given us a plenty, and we may drink cider
duty free ; but cider is not fiery enough for the
throats of freemen, and if we diftill it into hot
[Whole No. 350.]
ardent spirits, that make our throats tingle, we
have jeveral cents to pay to government." A
mighty grievance ! and will freemen bear all
this ?—An Excise Officer ! Why the col left or of
a land tax is a civil man; but appoint the fame
man to collect a duty on gin and xvhijky, and what
a devil he is ! Pimps and negro drivers are no
thing to him ! Sp much for prejudices acquired
in another country and under flavilh laws ; for
these violent grumbletonians, many of them at
least, were born abroad.
No. V
But all their grumbling has no effecft The
laws of* the nation are generally ageeable to the
community—the execution of them gives no
general uneasiness. The complaints of a few
four restless minds in the back parts of Pennsyl
vania and Virginia, produce no great effect in
the counties where they are echoed, and in eve
ry other part of the Union, they are treated
with their merited contempt. They proceed
from narrow-minded men, whose views, like
those of the pismire, are limited to the hillock
where, they live. Men who can take a com
prehend ve view of government, in all its de
partments and connections, juftify the nicafures
taken to raise money in the United States. In
deed in the northern States, people of all de
scriptions, though the price of spirits has been
raised within a year almost fifty per cent, not
onlv approve of the funding as", the duty
and the regulations of the Poll-office, but they
feel no small degree of gratitude to the Execu
tive officer and to Congress, who have planned
the present system of adminifcration. A com
plaint is scarcely heard in these states, norwould
the people willingly fee the fyflem altered in
the minuted particular—But " offences mufl
come and when a fpir.it of censure and com
plaint exists in the body, it is best it lhould find
vent. Newspapers are the convenient vehicles
to carry off this spirit, and grumbletonians arc
the men to do the work. Every large town
must have a grumbling paper or two : they are
the common sewers of public opinion, and very
ufeful in discharging the filth of four minds, and
the dregs of wrong heads. The moving of this
filth is a little difagrceable for a moment to the
by-ftanders. but is necefTary to preserve the air
pure and salubrious. CATO.
CAPTURE OF SERINGAPATAM
FROM THE ST. CHRH>TOriIER'i GAZETTE.
MADRAS, March I
Camp,- Seringapatam, 24,1792.
LORD has great
pleasure in announcing to the
army, that preliminaries of peace
have been fettled between the confe
derate powers and Tippoo Sultan,
containing conditions highly honora
ble and advantageous to the Compa
ny, and the British Nation ; and in
consideration of the uncommon va
lor and fhmnefs that has been shewn
maiiifeftly by the officers and soldiers
of the king's and company's troops,
during the whole course of the war,
it is his Lonlfhip's intention to take
upon himfelf to order a handsome
gratuity to be diHiibuted to them
in the fame proportion as prize
money, from the sum that Tip
poo has bound himfelf by one of
the articles to pay to the Company
It has been agreed that from thia
day hostilities (hall cease on both
fides, but the army is not only to re
tain its present posts till further or
ders—but his Lordship likewise en
joins in the ftrongett manner, that
no troops, nor persons belonging to
Tippoo shall be allowed to pass the
Picquet and approach the encamp
ment without a paflportor permiilion
regularly notified, and in general,
that the fame vigilance and ftriiflneft
that has been customary during the
war, lhall be observed by all officers
and soldiers in the execution of every
military duty, until the troops (hall
arrive at the port that shall be allot
ted to them, in the Company's terri
tories—His Lordfliip thinks it almost
unneceflary to desire the army to ad
vert, that moderation infuccefs, is no
less expe«sied from brave men, than
gallantry in action, and he trusts that
the officers and soldiers in his army,
will not only be incapable of com
mitting violences in any intercourse
that may happen between them and
Tippoo's troops, but that they will
even abltain from making use of any
kind of an insulting expreflion to
wards an eneuiy now fubdocd and
humbled.GRAND ARMY
On our arrival near this place o.i
the sth in ft. Tippoo's army appeared
encamped 011 the north ot the Cave
ry, his rear to the island ot Seiinga
pat am. His right extending to the
toot of the hill 011 which the Carlgat
ta Pagoda ttands, and his left to the
Cavery above ihe island. Ihe Lock
any river which winds through the
plain to the northward ot Seringapa
tain, ran clole along part ot the 11 out,
and round the right of his line,where
it joined the Cavery, and several wa
ter coiirfes,ravines, and much Iwa 111 py
ground, ilrengtheiied his left.
The whole of his encampment was
enclol'ed with a bound hedge, in ma
ny places extremely impenetrable,
and several ftrongand well conftruift
ed redoubts, furniihed with a nume
rous artillery, were so placed as to
defend Hie approach, particularly to
wards the left of his polition.
This encampment having been re
connoitred 011 the morningofthe 7th,
orders were i(Tiled in the evening for
a general attack 011 the lines. —The
army in three divilions commanded
by Lord Cornwallis, Gen. Meadows,
and Col. Maxwell, without guns, was
ordered to parade at feveti in the e
vening.
Gen. Meadows, with the right co
lumn, to enter on the left of the
enemy's camp, Lord Cornwallis to
attack their centre, and Colonel Max
well to gain the Carigatta Pagoda,
and the hill commanding it ; 011
which works had been conttrudled by
the enemy to defend their right.
The right and centre attacks were
directed to penetrate nearly to the
depth of the enemy's camp before
they turned to sweep along it, and
the whole were inftrutfted in the e
vent of success to fuffer their leading
diviHons to mix with the fugitives,
and if possible to enter the island with
them.
About nine o'clock the column
moved off, and at I 2 the attack com
menced on the left in, the centre.
The hills were rapidly carried by
Col. Maxwell's diviiion, and after a
fliarp contest for several minutes, the
centre column penetrated the hedge,
and put the enemy to flight.
Lieut. Col. Knox, with the leading
companies of his attack, pufliing the
fugitives, entered the island with
them at the great ford close to the
fort, and advanced across it, while
Coi. Stuart, with the 71ft regiment
and two sepoy battalions took a very
llrong redoubt, and drove the enemy
to his left, along the camp. Here
they were met by the column under
Lieut. Col. Maxwell, who quitting
the hills, had attacked the right of
the camp, and was forcing the enemy
towards the centre.
Anxions to pufli the advantage as
far as poflible, the leading part of the
left column under Col.Baird entered
the river, and attempted it by a very
rugged paflage, in which attempt Col.
Stuarts division joined.
The depth and rocky bottom of
the river, with a heavy fiie from the
lines, formed to defend it on the op
posite bank, for a considerable time
prevented the progress of the troops ;
but after more than an hour's exer
tion, the 71ft and 72d regiments, got
footing on the opposite bank, nearly
at the fame time that the few compa
nies who had pafl'ed at the proper
ford, and penetrated across theifland
to the southern river, returned to
wards the Pettah of Charganjain,
which was now taken pofleilion of by
the troops which had eroded.
The (hong lines which defended
the hold—near the Carigatta Pago
da, being now abandoned bytheene
my, several Sepoy corps eroded here,
and reinforced the troops already on
the island, so that by two o'clock in
the morning, all the eastern part of
the place, including the gardens of
Tippoo, the Tomb of Hyder, and
Charganiam (a Pettah on the centre
of the iflind) was taken by our troops.
In this Pettah a number of our un
fortunate countrymen were found in
chains, and released, as well as many
of the topafes taken at Coimbatore,
with Lieut. Chalmers.
While the centre and left divisions
were thus employed, Gen. Meadows,
whose march had been impeded bv
bad roads till after the attacks 011 the
other fide had commenced, entered
the hedge near a -very strong re
doubt, which the advance cf his di
vision under Col. Neibiti immediately
attacked
A considerable body of the enemy's
best troops, am.onglt whom was Lal
ly's corps, defended poit, and
the ilrength ot tlie work, which
mounted len pieces 6i' cann » i, to
gether with the ohitinaie reiiftance
of its defenders, made its reduction
an operation ofcoiiiiderable difficulty.
After several attacks had been made
and as often repnlfed, w it h great loss.
our troops at lail gained and eritered
tlie redoubt ; upwards of 300 of: the
enemy falling within it.
The delay occasioned by thisobfti
tiate defence, and some miltakes
which our little knowledge of the
exac r t (ituation of the camp (objected
us to, prevented the column from pe
netrating on this tide as far as was
intended, so that the lefc wing of the
enemy remained in a great degree
unbroken, while this column moved
to the left along the outside ot the
hedge, inltead of keeping within it,
and came 110 more into action during
the night.
Lord Cornwallis, with part of the
centre column, had remained near
the foot where the column had enter
ed the hedge to (u ft a ill the attacks if
neceflaiy, and be at hand to coimnu
nicate his orders to the whole.
About four in the morning, the e
neiny collecting from their left, which
had not been touted like the relt of
their army, came down in a very for
midable body, and attacked thefmall
force that remained near his Lord
fliip's person.
The attack was warm, and reso
lutely received by the 74th, and pari
of the J2d regiments, with two bat
talions of Madras Sepoys and three
companies of the 13th Bengal Sepoys.
The enemy were repeatedly charg
ed and broken, bur as often formed
again, and renewed the attack, with
a constant fire of cannon, rockeis,
and inufquetry. Removed from the
support of the reft of the army, and
ignorant of their situation, it became
necefiary, as day approached, to re
tire from under the range of; he can
non of the fort.—The corps charged
and broke the enemy, and profiting
by their confufion, retired in good
order to the hedge at the footofCar
rigatt hills, where they were joined
by Maj. Gen. Meadows' division : at
the fame time the troops in the island
abandoned the Pettah, and several
of the advanced posts they had gain
ed, as they did not think it prudent
to risque the loss of rhe advantages
tliey were certain of pofl'effing, from
fecuringa smaller extent in the island,
by attempting to maintain more polls,
than the number of men they had
were capable of defending—efpecial
ly ns they were not fufficiently ac
quainted with the situations to judge
of their strength—at day light we
were enabled to view the scene of
action, and mark the efrects of the
night attack.—All the encampment
of the enemy appeared in the great
cft confufion—molt of the tents, a
mongst which was that of the Sultan,
ft'll standing ; guns and tumbrils,
laying fcatterfed over every part of
the lines, camels and bullocks wan
dering about, and horses galloping
amort git the dead and dying, wholaj
in heaps along the ground. Shelter
ed by the fire of the fort, the enemy
collected in great bodies, and cover
ed by large parties of horse attempt
ing to carry off the remains of their
tents and stores—but a redoubt near
ly in the center of their camp, into
which Capt Sibbald, with a company
of the 7111 regiment and two of Se
poys, had been thrown during the
night by Col. Stuart, in a great mea
sure prevented their operations.
' here redoubts thev surrounded
and during the whole of the 7rh, at'
tempted by every means to force
ihey were conflantly beat off, and
front the Hills and Islands we witr.efl
ed the interetting spectacle of a fmal!
work which we had the night before
earned with the greatell ease, i„ lhe
mid It of r ippoo's army, refiftinjr all
his force, which repeatedly aflaulted
it—towards evening the enemy re
tiredl abandoning all their works on
this fide the River, after blowing up
the umbilis, and burning some of
the carnages of their guns; and altho'
levei al of the guns we had taken dn
ring the night were drawn oft' by
110
them in the course of the day, 76 pie
ces of fine cannon, remained in pof
feiiion.—Nothing but tile neighbour-]
hood of the Fori, the guns of which
commanded all the plain, enabled
.Tippoo 10 lave one of his field artil
lery. The camp equipage being
brought from the former ground on
the evening of the 7ih, the army en
camped fronting Sei ingapatam, and
as near the place as the range of the
lliot would permit.
Our loss in the action is not nearly
so great a& might have been expect
ed, when the circumltances of the
attacks are considered, the whole a
inount of killed and wounded not ex
ceeding 520. The proportion of ofH
cers is great, but moil of thole wound
ed aie doing well.—T he lols of the
enemy cannot be ascertained. By the
most probable accounts their killed
and wounded are 5000, their deser
tions in consequence of the defeat
near 20,000 —It leems to have given
a decisive blow to the power ot the
Sultan, as his troops have loit all con
fidence. The Europeans in his ser
vice are defer ting, whenever they
have an opportunity of doing (o, and
many of these molt ufeful to him,
are among the number already come
to cam J).
In our lad courier we anticipated
the arrival of the hollages in camp.
—li was on the 27th, instead of the
24th, nit. that the important event
took place - about twelve o'clock tiie
works of the fort of Seringapatam
wei e crowded with an innumerable
multitude of people ; and the Sultan
was plainly clifcovered amongst them.
—111 a few minutes afterwards the
young princes made their appearance,
they were conduc r ted from the island
■o a large pavilion pitched lor their
reception, near Sibbald's redoubt,
aboMt a mile from the fort.
Here they were received by Sirjohn
Kenneway, who attended tlieni, ac
companied by an escort, to liead-quar
ters.
On entering the cainp, they were
fainted with nineteen guns ; and the
part of the line they palled was un
der arms, and the officers fainted —
Lord Cornwallis saluted them in his
tent, which was guarded by a bat
talion of Sepojs ; and they were then
formally delivered over to his Lord-
Ihip, by Gullum Ally Beg, the Sul
tan's Vackeel, as hollages for the due
performance of the treaty.
The scene was grand and affecting,
and imprerted all present with those
feelings which are not easily deliue
ated
It was a proud scene to the conque
rors—it was the moll humiliating to
( O
the vanquifheo.
An awful lilence for a moment pre
vailed, and every one seemed absorb
ed in the tumult of which the
occasion naturally called forth.
At length Gulium Ally approach
ing Lord Coi nwallis, and under much
agitation, addrelled his Lord/hip in
tha following emphatic words "1 hefe
children," said he, pointing to the
young princes, whom he then pre
sented, " were this morning the sons
of the Sultan my matter—their situa
tion is changed, and they must now
look up to your Lordfliip as their fa
ther," —and the tender and affection
ate manner in which his Lord (hip re
ceived them, seemed to confirm the
truth of the expi ellion.
The attendants of the young prin
ces appeared astonished at what they
saw, and their countenances were
highly expressive of the fatisfaiSion
they felt in the benevolence of his
Lordship.
Some conversation took place be
tween His Lordship and ilie Vackeels
of Tippoo, in which the latter de
clared that the termination of the
war difFufed happiness throughout all
ranks of people, and after fining a
few minutes, they retired, accompa
nying the young Princes to their
Tents ; under the escort of a party of
our Troops, which remained with
them as their guard.
Before they took their leave, His
Lordship presented a gold watch to
each of rhein, as a mark of his regard.
The next morning his Lordship
made them a visit a t their Tents,
which are pitched near to the left of
Tippoo's redoubts.
1 he body guard and spearmen of
1 lie Princes, formed an avenue of con
siderable extent from the Tent of ce-
i-emoiiy, which is fpacioiil, ail
magnificent. .
His Lordfliip alighted at the end c f
the avenue, and walked up t0 u, e
Tent, saluted as he palled by
Pi ince's guai ds.
They met his Lordlhip at the en
trance, and by their refpeftful be'
havior, {hewed that they held i u
pleating remembrance the kind at.
tention his Lordfliip had lhewn t0
them.
At the extremity of the Tent, and
somewhat elevated, a number of chairs
were placed ; here his Lordship f eat .
eel himfelf with the eldest Prince on
his right hand, and the younger oil
his left.
Sir John Kenneway fat on one fide
of the i imces and Mr. ( hery on the
other, as iiis Lordfliip's Interpreters*
The Varkeels ot Tippoo of whom
one was the person fen't fotne time a
go on an embafly to Conftaiuiliople,
and thole of the Nizam and Marraitas
arranged themselves in the fame or
der ; so that the whole formed a fe
rn i-circle : after a conversation of a
bout an hour, in which the Conllan
tinople Ambassador bore a consider
able share, his Lordship embraced the
Princes and gave to theeldeila fufee
richly mounted, and to the yomigelt,
an elegant cafe of pistols, and in re
turn each of them prefemed his Lord
ship with a sword ; beetle and Ottar
weie then broughc in, and his Lord
ship immediately afterwards with
drew, leading a prince in each hand,
to the extremity of the rich carpet
which was spread on the ground and
embraced them with the utmoll cor
diality. They remained on the spot
some time, paying their compliments
to the gentlemen of his Lordfliip's
li'uite, who falured them.
They are very fine boys; the eldest
is about eleven years of age, and ap
pears to be very quirk, (hrewd, and
penetrating : He addressed his Lord
(hip in a very pertinent speech, with
a great deal of propriety and without
any kind of confufion or embarrafl
nietn, and in the fame manner, 011
being defned by Gullum Ally, he re
peated some paflages from the Koran.
The youngest is remarkably hand
some—his features are very regular
and expreflive, and his countenance
is mild and open, lie is about 7 years
of a g e —They are both very graceful,
perfectly correct in their manners,
and appear to be extremely well bred.
They were drefled in white mus
lins, and round their necks they wore
fonie rows of beautiful pearls,to which
were suspended a peftagon, consisting
of an emerald and a ruby of consi
derable size, surrounded with a pro
fufion of brilliants.
Capt Maden, of his Majesty's 76th
Regt. Aid'de-Carnp to Earl Coruwal
lis, Jest the army on the 29111 inft
charged with hisLordfliip'sdifpatchei
for England ; one of the Indiamen
now in the roads, will be immedi
ately dispatched for the purpose of
announcing to Government, the im
portant intelligence of the honorable
and advantageous peace made
I.ordfhip with Tippoo Sultan, and or
the conclusion of a war, whose prin
ciple was humanity, whose progrels
was glory, and whose termination is
as honorable as its aim was just.
S O L E U R E, May p-
Our Diet has declared itfelf permanent unU
the tranquility of Europe will permit it: to 1
parate. and has resolved unairirnouily t a
Swiss Hi all observe the strictest armedl iieutra -
ty ; in consequence of which orders ave:
sent to M. de Custine to evacuate tle a ■
of Porentrui, otherwise they will oblijc hin
evacuate them. It has also been ' ; ' .
listen to 110 proposition for the renewa 0
agreements with France until they t- 2
with the King himfe'f.
PARIS, June 14-
Various are the reasons afligned tor IV. - ■
vara 's difmiflal from the military depa. tn
but what seems mofl probable is, t. a
could not with propriety Keep a (oliciting
had invaded the royal prerogative, by fthc' £
an increase of public force without bu P"« c
The new War Minister gives a ftcl Gc _
of the army; 40,000 men Ihll wanted-
nerais calling for arms, for .mmumtion,
camp equipage, there is allo
horse.—Such was the report which
rier, in his" W "W." *'
t'ue Aflemblv ; he concluded with asking
tW 'The' fecond'battalion of Walfli'slrifc brigfk
Queen. The unhappy Pnntffs ha „, n bdW
ry where, but among the am . {
the reigns of government. l al
;d S M yof the ladies of Honor, that the Royal Person
ages went last night and took the Sacrament,
preparatory to the fatal moment.
June 16. The report of M. Dumourier, on
the state of toe War Department, feeins to in
dicate a wifli in the R.oyal party to difpole the
nation to listen to a conciliating propopofition
from the powers in concert, as soon as tlieir ar
mies arrive on the Rhine. This is expected
about the 4th of July.
The King ha", refuted his fanftion, yesterday
at the Council, to the decree on the Prielts, and
to the eftablifnment of a camp of 20,0d0 men
near Paris.
WARSAW, June 2.
Ycfterd'.iy an express from Prince Joseph Po
iiiatowfki arrived with the following account,
dated at Vienna the 27th of May:—Lieutenant
Oolciowfki of the National Cavalry, occupying
ail out-poft with three hundred men, perceived
a body of 2300 Ruffians approaching, who firft
began the attack, while Golciowfki having re
turned the fire, charged the enemy lword in
hand with such impetuosity, that their line was
compleatly broken ; a general action then be
gan, which lasted two hours and an half. Not
withstanding so great a superiority of numbers,
the field of battie remained to our troops; 33®
Ruffians were left on the spot; our lols is 43
killed and 23 wounded This body of the Ruf
fians was chosen from the nation called Czarno
morce, bordering on the Black Sea, reckoned
tjie bravest ; it is they who took Berezina, near
Oczakow, and who led tfie van in storming 11-
mailow. Elated with former fucCelTes, and
trusting to their numbers, they marched down
with seeming contempt, and littleexpefted such
a warm reception from a handful,of Poles.
Our different divisions are marching to Lithu
ania and to the Ukraine, with the greatest ex
pedition and alacrity. They had not a single
dei'erter. In Lithuania we fee the greatelt ardor
for defending their liberty and independence.
Even their ladies strive to encourage the youth
to noble actions ; instead of cries and tears, un
worthy of free women, they collected among
themselves 1,533 ducats at Wilora, for the ex
pences of the war.
We hear from the diftrift of Rzeczvca, that
the Ruffians have entered on that defenceless
fide, and begun to carry off all the peasants and
their families into ilaverv, to people their de
farts. Such are the proofs of the friendly as
surances given in the Empress's declaration.
LONDON, June 23.
By private letters from Paris, we learn, that
that capital is at present in extreme dilorder.
The late changes in the adminiflration, and
the firmnefs of°the King's reiiftance to certain
measures, have placed h\m in a situation ot im
minent danger.—The Queen, always the im
puted origin of every obnoxious a&, is virulent
ly reviled, threatened and insulted. The Jaco
bins publicly talk of giving a very signal exam
ple to the world. May it lie that of popular
afcsndency used with mildness and moderation!
A deputation of the citizens of the Sediion of
Croix-llouge appeared at the bar of the Airem
bly, 011 Sunday, and delivered their lentiments
by the mouth of their orator, in the following
terms
" For the four last years the people have
been ailailed with plots, which seem to have
been favored, seconded, nay even concerted by
those who surround the Executive Power.
u What evil genius has been the adviser of
Louis XVI. ? Forgetting his perjuries, we have
placed him upon the most brilliant throne in
the Unive 'fe, and yet he hath forgotten his be
nefactors !
You have enacted two most excellent De
crees, one against the Priesthood, another for
forming a Catnp of Reserve,/ and he hath refu
led to fanftion them ! You disbanded a Guard
audaciously aristocratic, and he hath recurned
thanks to it for its conduct, by means of a Pro
clamation ! Most excellent Ministers formed
his Council —'ie hath difmilfed them !
" This hath given us the most lively
alarm. We wish to carry terror to the hearts
of the Conlpirators, and to teach them that the
Constitution shall never perish, as long as one
of its Defenders remains alive.
u Permit the Aflemblies of this Section to be
permanent. Armed and devoted to your cause,
we shall then be able to fly to your defence in a
single moment."
[After a short, but spirited debate, a decree pajed,
nem. con. Jor the appointment of a Spfcul Com
niiilion, to consider and jeport on the dangers that
funound France.]
The Capt. of a French Packet, which arri
ved 011 Wednesday night at Dover, brings in
telligence that a general a<stion has taken place
between the French and Austrian armies, that
it was a hard fought battle, attended with ve
ry great flanghter, the Auftrians having 10,00::
killed and wounded, and the French upwards oi
5000, but that the victory was greatly in favor
of the French.
Menen and some other places are taken by
the French, and they were besieging Mons,
wh'ch they expelled to carry.
The Gorgon of 44 guns, Capt. Parker, from
Jackson's Bay, arrived at Portsmouth, failed
from Spithead the I Jth March, 1791, and reach
ed her destined port tlie 22d of September fol
lowing.
They found this infant colony in the greatest
distress, being in want of every necelfary of
life, and by no means in that fertile Hate repre
sented, nor is there the Itrongeft probability oi'
its ever being rendered so*
The Gorgon left the wretched settlers 7 2
spirits, with every fpeyes ofpro
vifions fne could possibly spare,
Barrington, of famous memory, is appointed
by Governor Philips, High Constable of Parra
matta, a new fettiement about 14 miles from
Sidney Cove, in which he conducts himfelfwith
great propriety, and distributes justice in the
nioft impartial manner, discovering in his deci
sions Angular abilities and humanity.
BOSTON, August 27.
In addition to the Foreign Intelligence, wc
can briefly add—That Pari , continued in great
ferment—That the King dared not appear it:
public—That vast numbers were daily leaving
France—That the change in the French admi
nistration, as proceeding folcly from the King,
was deemed the 1110 ft important event that
could ever have taken place ; the iflue is ex
pected to be either a counter-revolution, or the
aflaffination of the King—That the King of
Hungary was not dead, but was very ill; —and
that the British government had equipped for
sea a fleet of observation, under Lord Hood.
We are forrv to inform the public, that the
Raft Ship, which failed from this port, was on
Thursday last week quitted at sea, being full of
water. The crew took to their boats, and four
of them arrived here in a lchooner from Liver
pool, yeftcrday.
Extrail of a Utter dated Macao, 13M December, 1791,
to a gentleman tn-thi* town.
li Captain Kendrick had his veifel attacked
on the coast, and the natives got pofTeflion of his
deck ; however, after killing about forty na
tives, they recovered her ; the natives had so
far poflcflion, that they handed over into their
canoes, iron, copper, guns, &c. without leave
or licence. I forgot in my last to mention to
you I discovered seven islands in the South Seas,
which I am sure from an examination of the dif
ferent voyages from the year 1400 to the pre
lent date, all my charts, and globes of modern
date, were never discovered before ; they are
between the Marquefa's and the Sandwich I fie s.
My journals being on board, puts it out of my
power to transmit you by the present convey
ance their particular latitude and longitude.
However, the French ship I mentioned to you
in my last, arrived here from the >3. W. law
of them, and claimed them as a new dif
coveryj but on examining my journals," the
lfles they had seen were the fame we had seen a
month before them."
We farther learn, that the natives of the
N. Weft got pofftffion of the brig Wamington,
Capxt. Kendrick, who killed sixty of them before
he could recover his veilel—and that the two
leamen of the Columbia, Capt. Gray, who were
iwaifacred on that coa{t, did belong toNatucket,
by the names of Folgier and Barnes.
That our countrymen are not allowed to fell
their Furs inChina,is certain—and it is equally
certain it's not as has been said, through the
British influence—as we find they equally fuffer
—In the London price current of the 20th April,
the General Coote, Captain Baldwin, from
China, entered fifteen cales of Sea-Otter Skins,
brought from Canton.
Philadelphia, Sept. 5.
The Patent Condu&or from Fire, is now of
fered to the public by the Inventor, Samuel
Green, No. 59, Gold-street, New-York—or
by Mr. William Zanies, Philadelphia. Prices
from 10 to 14 dollars.
These machines are so easily mnde use of,
fays the Patentee, that a boy of 12 years old,
who never saw one before, can fix them instant
ly, and deliver twenty persons, and furniture
in proportion, every minute, from the grcateft
heighth. Their utility mull therefore be very
apparent.
111 our last it was. mentioned that Mr.Napper
Tandy was acquitted on his trial for challeng
es J°hn Toler, Esq. the King's Solicitor Gene
ral, Ireland. The following remarks on the
above trial appear in an Etiglifh paper.
" That in lupport of the indictment, charg
ing Mr. Tandy with endeavoring, by letters
and otherwise, to excite and provoke Mr. To
ler to fight, it was allowed by Mr. Tandy, that
he did write the letters fpecified—and Mr. Smith,
Mr. Tandy's friend, declared in evidence, his
belief—that Mr. Tandy meant to provoke Mr.
Toler to fight—and wijhed to put the necejfity of
challenging on Mr. Toler.—Mr. Tandy, never
tbelefs, was acquitted of endeavoring to excite Mr.
Toler to jght.
Mr. Tandy considered Mr. Toler to have gi
ven the offence, and accordingly called on him
for an explanation ; —yet strange to find—Mr.
Tandy expected that Mr. Toler would lend
him (the affronted party) the challenge.
It is evident Mr. Toier was for fettling mat
ters inftantlv—and it is as evident, that Mr.
Tandy's backwardness to fight, increaled in pro
portion to Mr. Toler's forxvardnefs. Yet this
hero of heroes—this redoubtable Napper Tandy,
was chaired after his acquittal, and illumina
tions made on his account, that his courage, it is
presumed, might appear the more conjpicucus.
Extract of a letter from a person in a dijlanl State
... jl. L J. i
to the Editor.
" Nothing can shew more plainly the ill dis
positions of certain slanderers of government,
than their misrepresentations of the Poll-Office
law. They (tick at nothing to blacken the cha
racters of our rulers. It seems, on trial of the
Poft-Office law, impoflible that even such lrien
as the writers of scandalous paragraphs, Ihould
be hardy enough to charge the authors of that
law with a design to stop the newspapers and to
deprive the people of any means of knowing
how their affairs are managed. Not to men
tion that the provisions of that art carry on
their very face a strong desire to diffufe politi
cal information, experience has Ihewn already
that the law is well calculated for that purpose.
For it is well known that your papers formerly
came so seldom and so irregularly, that several
of your customers were discouraged and have
dropt your G; -.ette, notwithstanding their high
approbation of it, and their curiosity to under
stand public tranfartions. Since the firft of
June however, when the Poft-Oifice art came
into operation, I have not miffed receiving one
of your paper*, and I have no reason to appre
hend any difappointnient in future. 0
111
M. Rolland, one of the French Ministry, late
ly difmified, wrote the following letter to the
King on that occalion :
u Sire,
" The present state of things cannot conti
nue long; it is a violent crisis. The French
have made t! emfelves a conftitutior; this con- 1
liitution has made a number of malcontents.
The minority relying on culpable hopes, intrigue
with a high hand for the lupport of monarchy.
Your Majesty enjoyed great prerogatives, and
has not been able to bear the idea of losing them.
From this the enemies of the constitution have
counted upon secret prote&ion. Your Majesty
must at present chufe the alternative, either of
yielding up these habitudes, or of being fulpeft
ed of complicity. Every thing has its term ;
that of uncertainty is arrived. Will your Ma
jesty choole to defend the constitution, or to
range on the fide of the enemies of France?—
The declaration of rights is become the Evangil
of the people. Country is no longer a vain
word. The Revolution cannot but be com
pleated, even though it be terminated at the
price of blood. The Priests disturb the state ;
iandlion the decree which was intended to re
press them. Do not oppole the national will.
Sanction the decree for the levy of twenty thou
sand citizen soldiers."
A writer in one ot the Eastern papers, fays—
" It is with singular plealure I obftrve the thriv
ing state of agriculttne, commerce, and arts in
every pat*t of the country I have visited. At no
former period of the last twenty-five years, have
people so gencrglly enjoyed the bltflings of pcace,
plenty and fatisfattion. It is a remark of farmers
in the interior country, that people were never be
fore so industrious, and never acquired property
so tafias at the present time. This industry is,
through the northern states, rewarded with the
molt plentiful crops ever known. Three years
;:gq industry languished, and multitude s of people
were wandering about the country in quest of
< mploymcnt. Day laborers were about the flreets
of our large towns in herds. But times are chang
ed. It is now almost lmpoifible to procure la
borers at any price. In the town and country
there is more employment than men—the mecha
nic's undertaking retarded, and the farmers crops
wafting in the field for want of laborers. Even
emigration totheweftern lands is checked by this
lavorable state of btifinefs,
" Let the reader pause a moment and enquire
what is the cause of this new and unexpected
change of affairs. To what phyfical s moral or
political energy shall this flourifliing state of
things be alcribed ? There is but one anlwer to
tliefe enquiries ; Public credit is rejlorcd and ejla
bltjhed. The general government, by uniting,
and calling into action, the pecuniary rclources ol
the ftaies, has created a new capital stock of seve
ral millions of dollars, which, with that before
exifli ng ,\is dire&ed into every branch of bufintfs,
g'.ving life arid vigor to industry in its infinitely
divcVhfied operations. The enemies of the gene
ral government, the funding and the National
Bank, may bellow tyranny, arijlocracy and specula
tors ihiough the Union, and repeat the clamorous
din as long as ; but the attual Hate of
.gricubure and commerce, the peace, the content
merit and fatisfatf'on of the great mass of people,
;;ive the lie to their aflertions, and stamp on them
in capitals, Vox et praterea nihil. It is furpr.iftng
tliis pouting whining herd of dilappointed wiong
hcads will not be Jilent and retire with shame from
public notice, when they fee all their viiionary
predi6tions falfified, and instead of their eXpeded
calamities, thev fee the public mind at ease, and
.ill parts of the community congiatulating each
other on the full enjoyment of the bleflings of
peace, liberty, fafety and general prosperity.
One would think that baffled ambition itfelf
would retire from aflailingour ears and annoying
our bappinefs ; af;er having fcr two years mur
mured out its puny whinings m vain. But why
should government be exempted from the vexa
tions of harbonng toes in its bosom ? There was
a Judas among the difciplcs of Jesus, and the joys
of paradifc were interrupted by the leftlefs ambi
tion of a Satan. How then can the moil perfect
' fyflem of human government fatisfy all the wants
and wishes of its fnbje&s ?
" And little less than angels, would be more."
Those who deny that they are enemies of the j
government, and yet labor to undo all that the!
government has been three years in doing, af-i
fume all ihapes and use even contradictory pre
tences to carry their point. They call thern
felves firnple republicans, and they of course
abhor, as they afFedl to fay, the fine spun theo
ries and new fangled visions which Congress lias
adopted from the Minister of the Treasury.—
The irredeemable quality of the debt, the bank,
and almost all the principles drawn from ma
thematics, the most certain of the sciences, are
called schemes and visions with which the Se
cretary has bewitched the country. The fame
men do not however allow the merit of these
new invented schemes to the Secretary. Jea
lous of giving credit for any thing, they fay he
treads in the steps of the British financier. Ac
cording to these confident wife men, our sys
tems are at the fame time fanciful theories and
servile imitations of the pra&ice and experience
of other nations —they want invention and they
have too much of it—they are whims that no
perlon in his wits ever thought of before, and
they are dull and stupid because other nations
have done just so. This is blowing hot and
cold with the fame breath. But if the people
can be made to abhor the laws of Congress the
I end will juflify the means.
Thole who recommend good order and who
aid those who inculcate it will be right ninety
times out of an hundred ; for there will not
happen one occasion in a million when the peace
of society will not be found to be of more wort!
than any thing that the people will gain by dis
turbing it ; the agents of mifchief will gain,
though the people may fuffer ; for by blowing
up the coals of discord, they will be hired to
work at the bellows. Many political bullies
who wrangle themselves into places become ti;e
quieted men till they lose pofleflion—and ther
they have only to begin another fcjuabble.
COMMUNICATIONS.
That the debt of the United States is dimi
nished one million eight hundred forty-five
thou fan d two hundred seventeen dollars and
forty-two cents, is a fa(sl—and that it is a fa<st
is the rub—it rubs off one of those raifreprefen
tations on which the junto founded their prin
cipal pretence to patriotilm. But as this fatffc
is so stubborn a testimonial in favor of the ad
ministration, it mud be obscured, and, if pofii
ble, overwhelmed—by what ?—by the abomi
nable crime of funding and providing for a part
of the public debt, which was as due
as any other part of it—and this is called en-
CTcafing the debtl It is the most fortunate thing
for the enemies of the government, that Con
grcfh have considered the publicJaUk as sacred
and as binding as private faith —had a different
line of conduct been adopted, our pre'ent de
claimers, to have been confident, inuft have
been silent.
What a clamor rung thro' the continent during
the firft > ear ol the new government, because COll
- delayed funding the debt—because they did
not provide for the defencelefs frontiers—did not
protest trade and, manufa&ures—with a score of
other complaints. All these things have been at
tended to, and the laws fecm to operate as well as
was expected. But the peal is now rung against
those a6ts. The government would get nothing
by turning Quaker, for one cheek is smit
ten, these angiy men stand ready to finite the other
also.
At a Meeting of ftindry Inhabitants of theWeftern
Counties of Pennsylvania, held at Pittsburgh,
August 22, 1792,
The following report of a Committee was unani-
inoufly adopted, viz.—
Strongly impressed with a sense of the fa
tal consequences thac mull attend an Excise, con
vinced that a tax upon liquors which are the com
mon dtink of a nation operates in proportion to
the number and not to the wealth of the people,
and of course is unjust in itfelf, and oppreflive up
on the poor : taught by the experience of other
countries that internal taxes upon consumption*
from their very nature, never can effe&ually be
carried into operation, without veiling the offi
cers appointed to collett them with powers mod
dangerous to the civil rights of freemen, and must
in the end deflroy the liberties of every country
in which they are introduced; feeling that the
late Excise Law of Congress, from the present
circuwilUnces of our agriculture, our want of mar
kets, and the scarcity of a circulating medium,
will bring immediate distress and ruin on the
Western Country. We think it olir duty to per
sist in our remonflrances to Congress, and in every
j other legal measure that may obftruft the operati
|on of the law, until we are able to obtain its total
repeal.
Therefore, Resolved, Tliat David Bradford,
James Msi fhal, Albert Gallatin, Peter Lisle, and
David Philips, he appointed for the purpose of
drawing a remonstrance to Congress ilatng our
ohj< ftions against the law that imposes a duty up
on spirituous liquors distilled within the United
States, and praying for a repeal of the lame, and
that the Chairman of the meeting be directed to
sign the fame in the name of the meeting, and to
take proper meafuies to have it prefentcd to Con
gress at their next fcflions.
RefoJvcd, That in order that our measures mav
be carried on with regularity and concert, that
Wm, Wallace, [here follow 20 other names] bejc
fpesivelyappointed committeesof correspondence
for the counties of Washington, Fayette and Al
leghany, and that it shall be their duty to corres
pond together and with such committee as shall
be appointed for the fame purpose in the county
of Weftmoreland, or with any committees of a
similar nature that may be appointed in other
parts of the United States, and also, if found ne
cessary, to call together either general meetings of
the people in their refpeftive counties, or confer
ences of the several committees.
And whereas some men may be found amongst
us, so far loft to every sense of virtue and feeling
for the distresses of this country, as to accept of
fices for the collection of the duty.
Resolved therefore, That in future we will
rtonfider such persons as unworthy of our friend
fhip, have no intercourse or dealings with them,
withdraw from them every aflittance, and with
hold all the comforts of life which depend upon
those duties that as men and fellow-citizens wc
owe to each other, and upon all occafior.s treat
them with that contempt they deserve, and that it
be and it is hereby most earnestly recommended
to the people at large to follow the fame line of
conduct towards thein.
On Motion, Resolved, That the Minutes of this
meeting be signed by the chaifinan, attested by
ihe Cleik,and publiriiediajjie Pittsburgh Gazette.
JOHN CANON, Chairman.
Attest. Albert Ga l latin, Clerk.
The State Bank of South-Carolina was to
commence business on the 27th August.
We learn that an attempt is now making to
render the north branch of the river PotowmaC
navigable for boats, from Fort-Cumberland to
Old Town. That the work is carried on un
der the infpe&ion ofCapt. Thomas Beall, who
has sixty hands couftantly employed, and when
compleated, boats with produce can pass from
Fort-Cumberland to Georgetown. Salt.Da. Rep.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Active, M'Keever, Guadaloupe
Mary Ann, Ramage, Havre-dc-Grace
Betsey, Merchgay, Port-au-Prince
Jenny, Tarris, St. Stbaftians
Four Brothers, Robb, Barbadoes
Sloop Patron, Gibfon, Nevis
Commerce, B. lcher, C. Francois
Peggy, WhitalJ, Baltimore
Eunice, Griffith, New-Providcnce
Pillv. Savannah
Schr. Peggy,
John,
Columbia,
Since our Jaft: a ship with four hundred pa-fc
fengers has arrived at Wilmington from Ireland.
Price of Stocks as in our /<?/?,
Skclly,
Bray,
M'Cormick,
Savannah
Charlrftou
do.Stock Brokers Office,
N0.4 e, Great Dock-llreet,' New-York,
rput auhferiber intending 10 confine h.mlcll
1 entirely to the PURCHASI andSALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, liegsleavc looltrr
his services to his friends and others, in the line
ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with th.-ir bufutefs, may depend upon
having it tranfafled with the utmost fidelity and
dl Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon, or any other
part of the United States will be ftriftly attend
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKER
(t.f.)
May 2
ioo Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cambridge Common, Maffarhufetts,
on the atternoon of the 18th ult. a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK,' milh a sUe! clalp, containing
a number of valuable papers, among which were
the'following Public Securities, viz.
Massachusetts State Notes- No 2,425, Hated
December 1, 1782, payable to Thomas Greenwood,
for/. 23 i6s. principal—No. 22,399, dated Ja
nuary 1, 1785, payable to Nathaniel Partridge, tot
£. 10 tot. principal. —No. , dated January
1, 1782, (an army note) payable to Timothy How
ard, for/'. 8 Bt. 11i. piincipal.—No. , a Note
{the number, date, and to whom payable, not
known) for £.3 os. 3d. principal.—One Indent
Oer'.ificate tor Four Dollars, and a Nem-Hamp-
Ihire Certificate lor about £. 12 pavable to John
and Daniel Jenks ; also a number of Notes of Hand,
one of which was for /'. 572 given by Nathan
fond to Samuel W. Pomeroy (by whom it was en
dowed) dated jft May, 1792, and payable 011 thf
itth August following ; the others wete all paya
ble to the Subscriber. The Securities are checked
at the different offices from whence they weri
iffupH, atid the Notes of Hand by the different
signers, they can therefore be o[ no use to any bin
the owner.
The Subfcribcr hereby offers a reward of One
Hundred Dollars to any peifon or pcrfons
who has found the fame, and will return them to
him, or leave them with the Printer hereof, and
no questions will be asked.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Salem, Majfachufetts, Augujl 1, 1792. (cptf)
New-Brunswick
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circumstances of a gentleman
who had undertaken to dispose of a propor
tion of the tickets in the New-Brunfwick Church
Lotttry, having, in his opinion, rendered »t incon
venient for him further to proceed in the sale
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
ets are unexpettedly returned to the Re&or,
Church-Wardens and Vcftry-mi 11. This lays the
Managers under the nec< flity of further adjourning
the drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of O&ob. r next, that they may have time to trans
mit these tickets to the partsof the state where they
areapplied for, and receive the returns. As there
are but few tickets betides these remaining on
hand, all persons who are disposed to promote ihc
pious objett of this Lottery, or to take a chance
for the prizes therein, are requefled to supply them
fclves by the firfl of O&ober ; and the gentlemen
appointed to dispose of them, are defircd to feturn
those to the Managers which then remain unfold,
to answer the applications of some gentlemen in
ttic neighbourhood, who are postponed to this rc
fource for a supply.— And notice is hereby given,
that the tickets not returned to the Manager s by
the eighth day of O&ober, will be considered as
at the risk of the holders.
N. B. Robert Morris, Esq. of New-Brunf
wick, is duly chosen one ot the Managers of the
said Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law. (eptOi)
■ George-Town.
A Number of LO I S in every situation which
may be rVfircd in City of Washington,
will be oftcred for sale by the ComrnilTioners, on
Monday the Bth day of O&obcr next. One fourth
part of the money to be paid down, the residue in
three equal annual payments, with yearly interclt
on the whole principal unpaid.
JOHN M'GANTT, Clerk
to the Commiflioners.
[eptl]
June 2, 1792
TO BE SOLD,
(And pofleftion given immediately)
A Valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
containing 213 acres, whertol 47 are wood
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made ; the
eleared land is under good fence, and is well
adapted to grass, and there being so much meadow,
a large (lock, may be railed : it is also natural to
wheat, and a proper attention to a well-kept stock,
will much improve its quality, and be the moli
profitable : it has a young orchard of 200 apple
trees, a variety of peach and cheny trees, and a
large garden. Theie are on the premises a hand
some two (lory stone hogfe and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza; also, a good barn, with (tabling,
cow-house, granary, waggon-house, work-(hop,
and fmoak-houfe. The (liuation is high, pleafani,
and healthv, and affords some very agreeable pro
fpe£ls, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the main road to New-York, about a mile and a
half from Princeton, New-Jersey, and 43 from
this city. The title was examined and approved
by eminent council before the fubferiber purchased.
For further particulars apply to the fubfenber, ai
No. i 4l . South Second-ltreet, or at No. 81, South
"VVater-ftieet, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
• B. Stock for the larm may be had of the prc
fent tenant.
Also, to be Sold, and entered immediately,
A two-dory Br ck HOI'SE and BAKE-HOUSE
in Arch-ftrect, No. 16 {ect two inches in Iroi
and ic2 Iccl in deyih. Apply as above,
July 17,
(t3" The JOURNAL of the TlltßD SESSION
of the SEN Ast c/ the UNITED STATES, may i e
had of the Editer hcreef. }
Bank of theUnitedState's.
RE«OLVED,
TH AT an Orfice of Discount and Deposit, !>t
established in ihc Cuy of Richmond, Siaieol
■Virginia.
RESOLVED,
That the 2d Tuefdiy in September next he ap
pointed for the Election of Thirteen Dirrflors and
a Caihier, for the Office of Difcouul and Deposit,
in the City of Richmond.
By Order of the President and Direflors,
JOHN KEAN, Calhier.
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY
Thomas james, wax chandlf.r,
from London, refpe&fnlly informs ihe public
that he has eftablflhed a Manufactory of the above
branch, at the upper end of Mulberry-Street,New-
Yoik, where Merchants, Captains of Veflels,
Drugftiits, and Families, may be fupplicd with
excellent and pure White Wax Candles, White
Wax in Cakes, Tapers, Wax'd Lamp Wicks,
Flambeaux, See. warranted equal to any made in
London, and twenty percent, cheaper.
Oiders in this and the adjacent States, received
bv Mr. John Goodeve, Bridge-Street, Mr.
William Frobisher, Fletcher-Street, and at
the Manutafctory, where samples may be seen.
N B. Bees-Wax taken in payment, or bleached
on moderate terms.
New-York, Jul/ 19, 1792.
To be pukli/hed by Subfcriptiov %
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCIEDINGS OF THE
Old (som^re^s,
From September 1774, to March 1789; —
An nuth ntic and original colle£lioii of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c.
written during the late war;
And extr acts from the
SECRET JOURNALS.
( For particulars, Jee Proposals at large.)
Subfci iptions arc received by the principal
Booksellers, and bv the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON, and other
Booksellers in Philadelphia,
A Collection of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
/jl RITUAL SONGS ; feie&ed from different
Authors, and published by Order of the Con
vention holding the Do&rine of the Salvation of
alljMen, met in Philadelphia, May 25, 1791.
Price of a single book, bound, 3-Bths of a Dollar,
with good allowance to those who take quantities.
Augult 4. ( C P l^-)
A further Caution.
ALL perions are hereby cautioned from receiv
ing of Thomas Mackic & Co. or any other
peifon, lour Notes of Hand, given by the late
James Gardner, of Wilmington, North-Caiolina,
to Samuel Jackson, of Philadelphia, all bearing date
the 19th July 1785, amounting 111 the whole to
£. 2,600 13 3 North-Carolina currency ; the
greateil part ol which said Notes have been paid
to said rhomas Matkie 8c Co. in proqf of which
■he fub(criber.« have the deposition of Mr. Jasper
I Aiaudu'i Jackson, and other documents which will
fully and clearly illustrate the matter.
It is therefore expc&ed that this notice, with
the one adveriifed in this paper in May and June,
1791, will he a fufficient caution to the public.
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executors.
MAR. R. WILLKINGS, )
(N. C.) Aug. 1, 1792. (tarngm)
TERRITORY ok COLUMBIA
June 28, 1792. ,
PURSUANT to the last Will and Testament of
the late Rev. Alexander William son,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurs
day, the 1 ith of .October next, at C eorcetow n
jon a crcdit of three years, the purchalers giviiv.
bond with approved fecurity,to bear interest from
;he date—l hat valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelhng
plantation of the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatest part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very confiderablr
quantity ct fine meadow Situated about 6 miles
'rom the Federal City,and the fame dilbnce from
George-1 own, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy part of the country.
The improvements are, a very elegant two story
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
oaflrfge, or entrv, on a floor) and the necessary out
houses. HENRY TOWN'SEND,"
BENJ. STODDERT,
(eptO) THOMAS JOHNS,
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
HPHF. Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-Scat'on
A Rock Creek, deemed by those who havcex
inined it, equal to any in the United Slates. The
Mill-House maybe placed within one quarter of
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a m ,] e f rom
he market houlc in Georgctov.n, and one mile
rom the Prelidcnt's fquaic, in the city ot Walh
■•ngton—on tide water, navigable for vcffels of fe
vera I hundred bulhels burthen—The flream is
(uftictcnt the year round,to turn four pair ol stones,
and the tall may be made from 2 5 to 30 feet li
IS m.necessary to dwell on the advantages of'fuch
a lituatjon. °
The pur-chafer may he accommodated with a
few huodted acu-s of land adjoining the Mill-Seal
it lhat mould be an object,
( c P3 m Mj u ')
(epif)
WANTED— TO RENT,
From the lad of Oaobcr next,
A convenient Ilou/e, in or near tie centre ot
the City.—Enquire ojthe Editor. •*
112
Treasury Department,
August 10, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofais will
be received at the office of the Secretary ol
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next incluftve, sot the ftipply ol ail Rations
which may be required for the tile of the United
Sutes, Irom the firll day of Januai v to the thirty
firll day of December, 1793. both days incluftve.
It the places, and within the diflritta hercahei
mentioned, viz.
JULY 10, 1792.
1. At any place or places betwixtYotk-Town &
Catlifle,in the Hale of Pcnnfylvania.aud Pittlburgh,
and at Putlburgh, York-Town and Carlisle.
2. At any place or places from Pittsburgh to thi
mouth of Big Beaver Creek, and at the mouth of
Big Beaver Creek.
3. Al any place or places from the said mouth to
the upper fall sol the said Big Beaver, and at the
upper falls.
4. At anyplace or places from the said upper
(allsto Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places from the said Mahoninp
ove r to the Head Navigation ol the River Caya
hoga, and at the said H< ad Navigation.
6. At any placeor places from the said Head Na
vigation to the mouth yf the said Rivet Cayahoga,
and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
the Bit; Beaver Creek to the mouth of the River
Mufkingum, and up the said River to the Tufca
rowas, and at the Tufearowas, and thcnce over to
the Cayahoga River, and thence down the fjid
River to its mouth.
[ep7w]
8. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
the River Mufkingum and the mouth of the Scioio
River, and at the mouth of *hc (aid River Scioto.
9 At any place or places betwixt the mouth ol
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the mouth of the Great Miami, and from thence
to the Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
fa id Rapids.
10. At any place or places betwixt the mouth oJ
the Grent Miami, up the said Miami to and at
Pique Town.
1 l. At any place or places from Fort Washington
to Foit Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
place or places from Fort Hamilton co Fort St.
Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At any place or places from Fort Sr. Clair to
Fort Jefferfon, and at Fort J- ffcrfon.
1 <3. At any place or places from Fort Jt fTerfon to
the field ol attion of the 4th of November, 1 791,
and at the said field of action.
14. At any place or places from the said field of
action to the Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
15. At any place or places from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls of the Miami River, which
empties into Lake Eiie, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at its mouth.
16. At any placc or places from «he mouth of the
said Miami River of Lake Erie toSatidufky Lake,
and at Sandufky Lake.
1 7. At any place or places from *he said Sandufky
Lake to the mouth of the River Cavaho^a.
18. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said River Cayahoga to Prefque I fie, and at Prefque
Isle.
19. At any place orplaces fromPrcfquc Isle to the
ftre*m running into Lake F.rie from towards the
Jadaghque Lake, and thence over tQ and at the
said Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alleg
hany River to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place or places fromPrefque Isle loLe
Beuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or olaees from I.e Beuf to Fort
Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and lioin thence
to Pittsburgh.
22. At any place or places from thcßapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of the Wabafh River, and from
the mouth of the said Wabafh River to the mouth
of the River Ohio.
23. At any place or places on the Eafl fide of the
River M'flTiflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the Illionois River.
24. At any place or places on the Eait fide of the
Mittillippi, between the mouth of the Ohio and
the River M argot vnclufively.
25. At any place or places from the said River
Margot to the River Yazous inclusively.
26. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said Wabafh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fort
Knox.
27. At any place or places from Fort Knox, up
:he said Wabafh, to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
28. At any place or places from Ouittanon,up the
said Wabafh, to the head navigation of a branch
thereof called Little River, and at the said head
navigation ot Little River.
29. At anv place or places from the said head na
vigation of Little River over to the Miami Village.
30. At ajiv place or places from the mouth of the
River TencfTee to Occochappo or Bear Qreek, on
the said River, inclusively.
31. At any place or places from the mouth of the
River Cumberland to Nalhville, on the said River,
and at Nafliville.
And at any place or places within thirty miles
of said Nashville to the Southward, Wcftward or
Northward thereof.
Should any rations.be required at any places, or
within other diftn&s, not lpecifird in these pro
posals, the price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the contra£lo«.
Executors.
The rations to be fiipplied arc to consist of the
following/articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, f
Two pounds of soap, > P er 100 ratlons '
One pound of candles, )
1 he rations are to be furnifhed in such quanti
ties as that there shall at all times, during the fair!
term, be fufficient lor the consumption of the
troops at each of the fa;d posts, for the space of at
least three mom lis in advance, in good and whole
some provisions, if the fame shall be required.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofTes
sustained by t he depred ations of the enemy, or by
means of the troops of the United States, lhall be
paid for at the prices of the articles captured or de
ft royed, on the depofiiions of two or more credita
ble chata£ters, and the certificate of a commiflion
ed officer, ascertaining the circumstances of the
loss, and the amount of the articles for which com
pensation is claimed.
B. STODDERT.
The contract for the above supplies will be made
either for one year, or for two years, as may appear
eligible. pLtions v .
fore oh,line th ir oiiv.is lo UIU ,
make their pro >
The ptfrrs may comprifc ,|| , ht ,
h,vc bcc " Uc.hed.or, part of the ft o j| v>
j department,
August 20th, 1702,
KTO HCE is herthy given, ihat prn nn f wi:l
i. > be received ai the office of the Secrrtarv 1
Uw Trcafury, unttl the , a th day „f Octobc
.ncluhve.torthL■ lupply all ,„ iont " *
be requited for the ule of ,h • Utme.l States f"Z
.he full day of January to the Lh.rty-firft day „f
December, 793, honeys „K!nl;v,, Sp,i n . fic |°
ip tne bmcoi Maffachuleuv ami tl,e PolUt Weill
Point, in the State of New-York.
The rations to be f.ippjied, ate lo conuft of the
following articles,
One pound of bread or flour.
One pound of beef, „ r 1„f „ fc
I-lalf a jill of rum, brandy or wlnlkv,
f >ne quart of fali,
Two quarts of vinegar, f
l'wo pounds of foao, C P er 100 H lions.
One pound of candies. )
The ptopofajj may be made for both of the
si M'"T™",?-:! 01 fcparatcly, i ur Sunn*,
held and Well-Point. • °
Treasury Department,
August, 20ih, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, Ihdt proposals wilt
be received attllc office of the Secretary of
the Treasury until the fourth dav of Oftoher next
incliilively, lor the supply of ihf following article*
of Clothing for tin- Troops in ihe lervicc of
the United States vi?.
FOR THE INFANTRY AVD ARTILLERY,
Hats 18|6o Shirts
4608 Coats 7956 Pair of Socks
4608 Veils 4608 Blankets
8668 Woolen Overalls 4608 Stocks
9216 Linen Overalls 4608 Srock Clasps
18376 Pair of Shoes 4608 ? ; nr of Uuckles
For the CAVALRY.
360 Caps ?20 Phir ol Stockings
360 144° Shirts
360 Veils 360 Blankets
360 Pair cf Leather 360 Stocks
(Breeches 360 Slock Clalps; also,
790 Pair of Boots u'oo Rifle Shirts, tobe
360 Pair of Spurs (made of Rullia Sheeting.
The above Clothing to be delivered either in
New-Yoik, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the op
lion of the contrattor or contractors, on ur betoic
the 15*h day of June, 1793.
Tlie piopofals may comprise the whole of the
beroie-mencioiicd Clothing, or any one or more
of thecomponent articles ; to be turnilhcd
blyto patterns or specimens, which will be (hewn
at the War Olfice. Good iecurity will be requir
ed for the puji&ual and iaithlnl performance of
theconira£h ihe payment will be on the de.live
-1 y of the Clothing, or, if n. ceflary, iuch realona-
Me advances will be made as the Secretary of the
Treasury (hall deem expedient.
War Department,
INFORMATION is hereby given to ail the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
ihe fuens to which they arc imilled for lix months
of their annual pension, from the 4th day of Maicb
1792, and which will become due on tbe,sth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the fa>d day
by the Commilnoners of the Loans within the
States reipeftivel v, under the usual regulations,viz.
Eveiy application for payment muil be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
:ft. The certificate bv the ftaie, fpecifymg
that the perfonpofiVfiing the fame '$ in fa£t an in
valid, and afceitaining the sum to which as such lie
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the JuJlices of tit
counts'of inthepteof and made otthM
he is the fame A. B. to whom the original urtifutt
in /lis pofjeffion was given, of which thefollmi'g >'
a copy (the certificate given by the pte to be rwttt)
That he fervei (regiment, corps or vej/e/ a
the tunc he was disabled, and that he now refits >«
the and county of and has uW
there for the teji y'"s, previous It whuh he r
sided in
In cafe an invalid ftould apply for payment by
an attorney, the fa id attorney, bcfides * ' ie cn '' l
catc and oath before recited, mult produce a fe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the to (""•"o
form
I, A. B. of county of p'"f f'.
ereiy corjlitute and appoint CD oj ™>'
ttO! ney, to receive in my behalf oj < r J
for f,, months, as an hvdU oj the l",ud
fiom the fourth day of March, one t oifj" J r
hundred and ninety-two, and ending t*e jij /
Septembery one thoujandjeven hundreds nine)
Signed ind (ealed
in the prcfencc of
Acknowledged before ipe>
Application* of executors and
must be accompanied with legal evlde ' l ' • , va J,<ii
refpeflive offices, and alio 'I> C ,UI,C
died, whose pension ihey may claim-
By command ot the
Prcfident of iheUnitco States.
H. KNOX, SccrtW] «J
frr The Printers in the rcfpeaive S^ at«»
requested to publtfh the above m
pers, for l.e space of two months. ,—
NEW T E AS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCH >
Of the very firft quality, and latest
from Canton, »ia New-York, by reta. , .
Third, betweenChefnut and Maikel.S"""'.,
5»
August 6, 1792.
| ll'itnejfes.