A KAt ZONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 34, NiP/H tJFI H-STREEI
,50 of Vol. IV.]
[No.
fr» r; ..KHFH.W /"»'• •'
A S it appear* by the publicprints t here
will He J ' onteit tor the office of Vite-
JTeiident, wiitth becomei vacant on the
«f March next, and which roust be supplied l>y
the free fuffVage of the people, it may not be
<leeiiied Ui'j'Mi er f in reiuti..n ta thole prin
cip es w..icli Ihjuld be held focred, t- make
ibme comments on the relative pretentions of
tii) e who are said to be competitors lor this
important ftarion. TW? trait in the execu
te department of our government, k. among
the in oft important of tho e which diftinguifli
it from the monarchies of Europe ; and a ; its
prefervatioa must in a great measure depend
upon the political cond.ict of thotp who till it,
a candid enquiry into the characters of the
competitors becomes a matter of public right,
it belongs to a free people to guard thein
ftlves from injury ; and to this great principle
the forms of ceremony or conipiaifunce for
persons must, upon all occalions, yield. Even
the competitors, therefore, however puiniul
the scrutiny be, fliouid console thei'i
felves under the reflection, that upon the pie
fc.'vatif" of J 1 "? prirciplp, t ' •'f'C- r *
country depend-.
Ia particular circles several gentlenen have
been ipoken of for the office in queliion, but
at present all others seem to be withdrawn
from view, and the conteU to reft fol-ly be
tween John Adams, Elq. and Governor C'i.i
ton. To their comparative ni-' its, therefore,
as the only competitors, I flxu.ll confine thele
observations.
Tt> treat of them in the affirmative line'
would be useless, as it could lead to no {atis
fa<f£ory conc ufiou j for every perion will ad
mit that, in fomc'refpeet , they both poflels
the requisite qualifications '• that both, tar in
stance poiFefs an adequate capacity for the
of its ofiiciai fun&ion-— ire of kif
jjjcient ajije arfd ftattding in America—ai.d
have likeTvife rendered important Jervites to
their country. To fix the preference, ttieir
merit i mult he viewed from a different ground.
The oi.jeftiyns which apply to each mult: he
fc armed, and he against wl.om t<e more
wciy,:.:/ a;: ; -i,. rejiv"<:ed.
To Mr.' Arijin; it iias been o j 0•••«', f.ut
he is attaci*?n \ *>vc- nuient",oi ft?'-. '
and common*; and that the allegation is true 1 ,
it is to be pre fumecty will not be controverted.
Hi; writing*?, eutitled, '* A Defence of tne
American Constitutions," and u DMcourfes
upo;i Davila," fully demonstrate it 11 it
could be supposed that doiihts ex.fied upon
this point, extracts from tho'e publications
ihould be now furniflied ; they lHa.ll however
immediately, if any intimation of the kind
be given. And to Mr. Clinton, an objection
of a different kind, —his oppoiition to the pre
sent constitution, before its adoption, has been
urged. These, I believe, are the principal ob
jections made to either : they are, howeve r ,
tuofe ouly upon which I lhall make a: y com
ijienc. T» whom, then, does the Wronger one
apply? On who e political principles, at the
present moment, would the good people ct
fchefe States with greater propriety bellow
their fancti >n ?
To form a found deciiion upon this inter
qaeftion, two ot iers, on which it de
pe«di, lHould be previously fet'led. First,
which of these gentlemen's political fenti-
IBSilts wander f,ifrom t"ie present coi
ftitution; atfcf fecundly, -On which liJjß does
greater danger lie, in the progrefi of the
jpjvsrtnuent, ot' a;i undue inclination towards
the fori 1 ! preferred !>y Mr. Adam 1 ;, or that as
cribed to Jtr. Clinton?
WithVefjwft to those of Mr. Adams, it will
be readiiy perceived, that they depart, in all
the £ieat o'itl : i;from the present contti
tittiui. The eltablilhmcnt of a government
of king, lnrdi, and commons, would entirely
fjktjvert the present one, which rests on the
fr«g (bifrage of the people. Two d: Ain ft or
ders with hereditary rights, would be erei'ted
tbe.n, and they reduced to a limited por
tion of authority only, forming a kind of ba
lance against thoie higher and' hoftite orders.
With refj«cl to tho'e of Governor Clinton,
It is to be oblerved, .that they have always
ranged within the republican theory. * His
nuxi:r\ has b?;n, to V «ep the government, in
all its department-, eifentially connected with
the people. The question about t '.e consti
tution involved only a modification of this
principle. Beside it it to be pre fumed that
ilanv of it> o':jsCtionr,:Jiave been done a. ay
by the amendments ; fothat, in fact, it must
be deemed, ii. ail its part", a", nearly corres
pondent with his own theory, as the contra
riety of feat intent, always displayed on a fub
je;cl of such importance, could rcafonably ad
mit of.
The chanatfteiifcic difference, then, in their
political principle fiinply amounts *to this,
that those of Mr. Adams varv radically from
the constitution, in the main features of the
repub ican fyftcrn ; where a* the e of his com
petitor harmonize With it in that elTential
point. In addition to which it is of mpor
tance tx> observe, that upon the eftabli Oilment
of the Constitution, and prior to the adaption
of amendment Mr. Clinton's Oppofitioirccaf
Wednesday, November 21, 1792.
vent, Mi. Ao«us Iris, in the discourses above
aUtided to, endeavored, by all fchea#gunifcnt<>
in his power, to inijpire, in t-ie mine# of hi-;
countrymen, a difti uft of a government iouiyl
ed on the people alone, and to prepare them
for the gradual introduction of hereditary or
ders in tlife State.
i.t'. • h < >
In regard to the other quelhon, on which
fide does the greater danger lie, 0) a more
probable inclination towards the fybvcr.ion
of the republican fyilem, by the introduction
of a government of an higher tone, or too
great a relaxation of it-? principle, I am
persuaded that 110 peiTon can feridu/ly enter
tain a doubt 011 the fubjeft. He must be lit
tle Skilled in the political balance, and the true
complexion of the times, who fuipcfr s in any
degree, a preponderance of the latter evil.
That the government may (land on : .tr pre
ient ground,- is certainly the wish of those to
whom a contrary sentiment has been attri
buted : for Jet the objections of those who
were opposed to it, where opposition was
made, be examined, and it will be four
the space v/hich separated the body of the 3y-
r ~:-; i. . . : ... - ..'l. ..w. ; . »
row one.—That, in fact, the difference in ma
iiy mftaaces, was but trifling, and that this
has been generally accommodated by the a
mendments. The. truth of this po lit lon h s
been so well eftabiifhcd by events, t : iat to
doubt it, argues a mind so inveterately blind
ed by prejudice or interest, that the force of
truth canuot reach it. No danger the- ot a
vibration back need be apprehended ; f«j, in
truth, no person \vti flies it. O;; the other
handi it must be admitted, that the evident
tendency is in the opposite direction. A par
ticular enumeration of those me afu res which
contribute to give this bias, is ut present un
nccelf.iry, and would certainly, in their de
velopement, exceed the bounds of tbefe ob
servation:.. lor the truth, however, of the
remark, I beg leave to appeal to the judg
ment of every impartial and well-informed
American.
If then, the good people of these States wifli
to preserve their guvermnent as at present,
elective in its form and limited in its
can they hel.tate in deciding to which oftjiele
prTitVi""'*" (V ■ , -l K* si ' ' ?
An unequivocal declaration of their fenti
nients upon this point, thus exprefl'ed, wouid
hereafter l.e feit by the candidates for public
favor, and reflected. It would give a re
publican tone to the American cliarafter,
that might tend to preserve their liberties
forever No confide ration of local attach
ment, ftioutrf interpose to defeat a measure,
which their interest requires and their judg
ment dictates. For the security of those
great princip'es upon which their revolution
was founded, and their present government
rests, Tii«ir union ihould be firm, Jolid and in
diilolubte. ' LUCIUS.
PHILADELPHIA Nov. 21
AT a meeting of the Officers of the Militia
of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia,
at the house of Michael Kitts, on the 15th of
November instant, agreeable to notice, in order
to receive the report of their committee appoint
ed 011 the aoth of August last.
Colonel William IVilliams in the Chair.
Colonel Sbte, from the committee, presented
the following report.
The committee appointed on the 20th day
of August, by the Militia Officers of the City
and Diftri&s »f Philadelphia, to designate the
chara&ers to whom refpe& ought publickly to
be {hewn, with the time and manner mod eli
gible to manifeft that attention, —to determine
the order of funeral proct-flions ; and to report
on such other fubje&s, as had immediate rela
tion to them in their military capacity; with
deference i'ubmit the following refoiutions : —
ift. That the characters to whom it is in
cumbent to manifeft such attention, are, the
President of the United States, and the Gover
nor of the State.
ad. That the time of preferring our refpe&s
{hall be on the anniversary of those days, on
which happened events, auspicious to our riling
empire,
3d. That, as lone as this city shall continue
to be the feat of the General Government, we
we will annually wait on the President, on the
fourth day of July, in commemoration of an
era, at once "propitious to our country, and glo
rious to him who so eminently contributed to
itseftablifhment. For this purpose we will as
semble at the State-House, at eleven o'clock, in
the forenoon, with fide arms, and in the uniform
of our refpc&ive corps. The Governor oil fuel)
occasions to be requeued to precede us.
4th. That at the fame place and hour, and
in like manner equipped, we a!fo will annually
aflemble on the second day of September, be
ing theanniverfary of the adoption 01 the Con
stitution of Pennsylvania, and felicitate the Go
vernor on an event, which, while diffufing hap
piness through the (bate, gratifies him in the
means of becoming more extexifively ufeiui to
it's citizens.
197
\t , ' ■ >
That the order of procofn i in cither
in Hance, lhall be regimentally, conformably to
the rank of battalions and corps
6th. That, upon the death of ary commis
sioned officer, of the militia aforefa.'d, the com-
mandant of the corps, to which he belonged,
ilia!j, if agreeable to the connexions of the de
ces&d, caule written notice to be given of the
fame to the several commanders of curps; nien
rionirg the place from whence, as well as the
hour, at which the funeral will depart. He
likevrife will cause to be publiffied in the Ga
zette an invitation to the officer;, containing:
tiie foregoing information, and requeuing their
The officers of the regiment or
corps, to which the deceased did belong, (hall,
if fufficiently numerous, be the bearers of the
corpse ; but field-officers are to be borne by those
of the like description. In all proceflions of this
nature, the officers of the youngest regiment,
and of that, those of the lowefl grade are to
take precedence, and succeed immediately to
die mourner a.
th. That, with a view to add to the res
■"pcch.i/? appearance of the militia* we will,
w»th the uniform 01
belong, and will appear at all
tin*iri the lame, when on duty, ©r when at-
t • ' utr vroceffions,
'Thich being conlidered by paragraphs, was
un; limoufly adopted.
urdered that the foregoing proceedings be
puMihed.
WILLIAM WILLIAMS, Chairm&n.
JOHN SMITH, Secretary.
' Foreign Affairs.
; PARIS, Septcpiber 14.
:jl EC E OF TIiIONv ILL E. *
' ; 'HE following is the account of
J- the laic attack of Thlonville,
on :he sth and 6tii of September,
nr.< of tlie lefiftance of the gatri
ft 'dated in a letter which M. Mer
ii .' ■" ii. • 1 • ' ' - ' Vl-.
i J . •T*. »•-! > *.• W. X »W« V' W» — ' J
on Friday lal>, and the authenticity
of which he warranted.
" The enemy had eret'ted their
batteries near tlie chapel of Sainie
Anne, between the Luxembourg
gate and that of Metz, in a small
plain, which commanded the fort
above La Hauteguge, 011 the right
bank of the JNlofeile. The troops
llationed to defend the fort, per
ceiving 1 hat the enemy were en
deavoring to tiirow up works, and
to form a trench, with a view of
eitabli(hing their batteries in the
spot abovementioiied, agreed to lut
fer them to proceed, until a favora
ble opportunely for interrupting
might occur. The besieged being
informed that the enemy meant to
give the figr.al of attack by firing a
waited patiently lill midnight,
each of the cannoneers lying down
bv the fide of their guns.—As loon
as tiM? beliegers gave the signal,
their batteries began to play, but
their fire continued only a quarter
of an hour, dm ing which time three
fliells fell in the town, one on the
pnri/li church, another on thehoule
of M. Hen lion, in the grand Itreet,
which did 11 *» damage, and tlie o
ther in the third ifory iri the house
of V.. Jofle, in Hospital-It reet, which
de(!'roved ilie furniture, at.d fei fire
to the bed.
" At the end of a quarter of an
hour the batteries of the town and
fort, lighted by fire-pots, piayed for
three hours. The- firft dil'charge,
which was with Jangridgc, killed
many of the enemy, who had ad
vsyic<;d in order to attempt an efca
)ade, and this fire oblige (I ihcallail
ants to abandon the place. Ihe
garrifou then being at libel ty to
felly forth, collected the fjioils left
by the enemy, among which they
found the plank? defined to r.flilt
them in scaling the walls Having
carried all these things into the fort,
a second ("ally was made to deilroy
the works of the enemy. It is as
serted that three Princes were killed
~ * A fir<m<! fortified town, lyiu* oti I lie liver
Mufcllc', ibuut 150 n.iltsfrum Pans.
■00
PUli APLLPHIA
[Whole No.
in this acti >»>, hikhisj wli.m was
the Prince of Watdeck, wHo ai It.ift
loft an arm ; and that the enemy
carried oft three Wa<»gm loails i»}"
dead bodies. When il.e
made their fii ft forrie, they fonud
near the batteries of La Hnoteptioe,
liinbn and arms of every ki;,d, to
gether with clo.iks, watches, &c.
The enemy, fntisfiod with this si It
check have attempted nor in tip since.
J he dcfei ters from the catnp of
Richemont fay, that they loft in
this afFair 450 men, and that they
would have given four tlioiifand to
prelerve the Prinre of Waldeck.
The environs of the town are at
present inundated by the river Se
ville, the current of which lias been
(lopped. Kiefli orders have b u en
given to the citizens to cot dmvn
all the tfeas withi'i ??g rmfas o.f*H»
J - \il .Ar< mrnrf-|l.llt : »Jyry,
composed now of 15,000 men, i Jrojo
of whom a 1 e cavalry, c|tiit!erl Vr I
fur la Meinetaft Sandaf, in order
to advance towards Bsr. Oihe, v s
iay that a patt of this army have
joined that of Dumotirier, and that
two columns have blocked up the
King of Prussia in Verdun.
SEPTEMBER It).
New Chrijh/iing of the. farmer
DUKE OF ORLEANS.
(In confeqnertce of defiritig to ha-'O rime)
EL XTORAL ASSEMBLY Or >AK.IS.
Decnc of ths Commons of Paris, the
15 th of September, qth year of Liber
ty, and the if! if Equality.
On the request of Louis Philip
Joieph, F'rench Prince, made ihro*
the Attorney General of the Com
mons, the General Chuiicil have de-
creed,
lu, i hiU i iiriip j'Sfi prt ami
his posterity, (hall in future be.r
the family name of EqUA 1.1 r r.
2d, That the Garden, known at
present under the name of Palsi*
Royrd, (hall in future be callcd the
Garden oj the Revolution.
3d, Louis Philip Joseph Equality is
hereby authorised to have the pre
sent Decree entered in the public
Regiliers, and in the Notarial Av.'is.
4th, The present (hall be primed
and affixed up for public notice.
BOULA, President.
C OLOMBKA U,Sec'ry RegiHer.
TALLIEN, Regider General.
September 30.
The following comtminic vions
are dated from Thursday to Friday
inclusive.
Operations of the Army.
On Thursday morning the 20th,
M. Servan announced to the Nati
onal Aflembly, thJlt he had received
a difpacch from M. Duinourier, dat
ing that the several detachments ex
pected had joined his army ; t hat he
was, at the moment of wi icing, equal
in force to the enemy. That he had
under his command 70,000 men,
12,000 of which were cavalry. He
fuys, that the whole army had de
manded the punishment of therun
aways; that he had deprived ihein
of their uniforms ; he doubts not
but that there are many in his army
foldtothe enemy ; but that the Lite
executirtns he has made, will keep
the reft in their duty. That his ar
my no'.T is ardent to engage ; aiul
he concludes, " what may I itot
hope to do now, when I have been
able to rcfift the enemy with infe
rior forces ?"
Mr. Rules writes to the miuirter,
that the invasion of the French ter
ritories in the department of the
Lower Rhine, is reduced to a mere
nothing.
The Auftrians remained only a
few minutes in the village of Berth.
The peasants who favored the inva
sion, aie seized and delivered up to
the tribunals.
After these letters had been read,
i M. Merlin informed the Aiienibly,
j.■ *"Jthat he hail received accounts of the
reinforcement deltined for Thion
ville, having entered that place
without the knowledge of the ene
piv. The following decree was
palled with much applause :
1. M. Wimpfen, the troops of the
line, and the volunteers who com
pose the gari ifon of Thionville, and
the citizens of that town, have ho
nourably discharged their dmy.
2. An extract from theproccfs ver
bal fliall be addrefled to them, to the
83 departments, and to the army ;
and alio to the thiee huilais who
while the enemy inverted that town,
were not afraid to bra*e the dan
gers which threatened them, and
carried to the place of their defo
liation some difpaiches entrulled to
their care. The executive power is
ordered to devjfe some mode of re
warding and proniotiug these brave
huflars.
3. A fund shall be committed to
the disposal of the minister of war
far eretfting barracks at Thionville.
BREST, September 14.
Mr.LaTouche,commandant ofthe
Languedoc, has sent a letter to the
Marine Minister, dated the 24th of
August, at Bred, in which he ac
knowledges having received his in
itru&ions, and which he has taken
every neceflary step immediately to
put into execution. That he ex
petft*4 to be ready to by the 2 7rh
at fdrtheft, on his expedition, and
hoped in the campaign, to give un
equivocal proofs of his patriotilm.
That the nation might rely on his
services, and that he would fulfil
the oath he had taken, to maintain
liberty and equality, and to die at
his pod.
LUXEMBURG, September 11.
We are informed from Clerment
in Argoune that a detachment of
Pruflian Huflars, consisting of 100
men, having yesterday attempted to
pass through a wood, near that town,
was suddenly surrounded by 900
French, who had concealed them
selves among the bushes, with 4 pie
ces of cannon. On the fir ft dif
charge forty of the Huflars were
killed upon the spot, the other 60
cut their way through the enemy
with their sabres. A body of troops
fufficient to surround the wood,
were instantly ordered to march,
and succeeded so well in their en
terprize, that not one of the French
escaped ; four hundred being killed,
and the reft taken prisoners ; the
Prussians loft only one man.
Part of the army of the Princes,
having Monsieur and the Count d'
Artois at their head have quirted
the camp of Hetange, near Thion
ville, to join the army of the Duke
of Brunfwick, near Verdun. The
Prince de Hoheulohe has marched
for the fame purpose, with a great
part of the Austrian army under
his command.
GAZETTE KXTRAORDINARY.
13 R U S S E L S, Sept. 18.
On the nth, the army under the
command of General Count Clair
fayt. having quitted the camp of
Romayne, went and took post on
the heighths which command Bari
court Befancy.—The head quarters
*ere eftablilhed at Nouach. Apart
of the Pruflian army, which had
been encamped in the environs of
Cierges, made a movement almost
in a parallel direction to that of the
army of General Glaii fayt.
Next morning the two armies di
rected their march pall Befancy, to
wards the post occupied by the
French troops, a detached body ef
whom engaged with the Pru'ffian
column ai tl>e entrance of a wood.
The Austrian army having then
formed in order of battle, made
some movements, during which the
enemy di(appeared, so that only a
few piquets of hollars and chafieurs
were able to engage in light fkir
nnflies with the dragoons and ad
vanced pofls of the French army.
The lattet-however, attempting to'
wards evening to fall back upon the
right of our army, were prevented
by a company of chafleurs, support
ed by cavalry, infantry and artille
ry. The badness of the weather
and the darkness of the night pre
vented any further opeiations.
On the 14th in the morning, M.
Duniourier attacked us at the port
of Roux aux Birs, with about 6000
men ; but our troops defendedthem
felves with their ul'ua] bravery, and
that port having been reinforced by
two battalions and two squadrons,
the enemy were repulsed with con
siderable loss, and obliged to pass
the river Aifne in the greatelt dif.
order.
The advantage which we have
gained by this affair, cannot com
pel) fate for the loss we sustained in
the death of Prince Charles de Li(|Qe
colonel of the engineers', whose
excellent character, military talents,
intrepidity,and great adtisity,makes
him juflly regreted, hurried on by
the ardor of his zeal and courage,
he marched forward with a
men only, towards the enemy's ar
tillery, and was killed by a bullet
(a cartache) which unfortunately
struck him.
Our loss besides consists of 4 offi
cers wounded and 30 rank and file
either killed or wounded.
LONDON, September 22.
The Savoyards, it is said, are de
ferring in great numbers from the
King of Sardinia's army. Nine hun
dred and fifty of them, if the ac
counts may be believed, wen' over
to the French in fix days.
From Paris, Stpi. "J.
This country continue! to i><*
drenched in blood ; and the ®eni
us of this once polished people,ftems
to fuffer a gradual deterioration ;
their cruelty exceeds belief, *nd
they every day give new and (hock
ing proofs of their ingenious baiba
rity. In my lad I had occasion to
mention an order of the National
Afleinbly,for transferring the State
Prisoners from Orleans to Saumtir :
ihe banditti of Marseilles, whom
the sanguinary chiefs of the capital
sent to escort them, received and
disobeyed the legislative and muni
cipal mandate, marched on to Ver
sailles, where they arrived yeftsr
day, with their devoted vidiims—
they led them in great pomp tiro*
the principal streets, until they
came exactly opposite to the War-
Office, where, dreadful to tell ! tkey
put every loul of them to death,
without even the formality of a
mock trial ! the prisoners, fifty
three in number, were all either
Bifliops, Dignitaries of the Church,
or Officers in the army.
The ruling faction in Paris has
intimated in writing to the Duke of
Brunfwick, that his attempt to ap
proach the capital lhallbe thefignal
for murdering the King and Queen
of France.
Letters from Barcelona state, that
five fail of French (hips of the line
were at anchor off Nice the 24th of
last month, for the avowed pnrpofe
of bombarding that place on thefirlt
movement of the Sardinian troops
to join the confederate army.
Advices received yesterday from
Frauce mention, that it was rcpjrt»d
that the Duke of Brunfwick bad en
countered the French army under
command of Dumourier in a gene
ral action near Chalons, and obtain
ed a decisive victory : near 10,000
of the French being said to be cut
to pieces. War was declared by
Spain against France on the ad of
this month, and Meff'rs. Rubi, Alva
rez, and Delafey, are appointed to
be his Catholic Majesty's Generals.
Sept. 27. A letter from Verdun,
of the 17th September, fays, that
General Glairfayt has put Dumou
rier to flight, dislodging him from
his post with only t 7,000 men, rho'
Dumourier had 22,000; that the
latter had retreated to another body
of 30,000, making in the whole
52,000 men, with which hefled with
such precipitation as to abandon ai)
his out ports, with his mi litary chest,
containing 50,000 livres in crown
pieces, besides affignats, and 60 wag
gon loads of proviiion. The money
is said to have been divided amoup
thg Hulans.
In consequence of the imminent
clanger to which the lives of the
royal family of France aie exposed,
toe undersigned miniitera have pre
fcntcd the following note to Lord
Grenville.on thefubjetf. Themea
fures inuft appear to every perfou
198
extremely wife ancT expedient, and
we rruft that it will be attended
with salutary consequences.
Tranflat'ton from the original.
The nnderfigned envoys extraor
dinary and Ministers Plenipotentia
ry of his Imperial Apostolic Majesty
and of his Majesty the King of the
two Sicilies, in consequence of the
ties of blood and friendfliip which
attach their Sovereigns to the King
and Oueen of France, have the ho
nor to address Lord Grenville, to
represent to him the imminent dan
gers which threatens the lives of
their Moll Chrittian Majesties, and
their royal family, and the appre
hensions they have too much cause
to entertain, that the atrocities
which the factious in France prac
tice against thefeauguft personages,
will not cease until the crime is com
pleated. They are authorised to
express the wirti of their refpec s tive
cotrfts, that his Britannic Majesty
in the event of such an horrible at
tempt, will not permit the residence,
nor give any protection or asylum
to those persons who may be known
to have participated in such a step.
Signed,
Cte Stadions,
Prince Castelicicala.
Sept. 20, 1 792.
To this application Lord Gren
ville feiu the following answer.
" The uiiderfigned, Secretary of
State, in answer to the official note
of yelterday's dale, which lie has
received on the part of the Count
de Stadions & the Prince of Cafteli
cicala, Minilters Plenipotentiary,
and envoys extraordinary of his Im
perial Apostolic Majesty, and of liis
Sicilian Majesty, has the honor of
renewing to those Minilters the ex
preflion of the sincere interest which
the King has always taken in what
ever peiTonally regards their Most
Chriftlan Majesties : an interest
which cannot help being increased
by the unfortunate circuinflances of
the situation in wliich their Majes
ties find themselves at present.
" It is the King's niofl ardent wi/h,
that the fears declared in the note
of the Count de Stadions and the
Prince of Caftelicicala, may not be
realized, but if happily the event
should prove otherwise, his Majesty
will not fail to take the most effec
tual measures to hinder the guilty
persons offo atrocious acrintefrom
finding an asylum in the states of
his Majesty. The King feels a plea
sure in formally giving to Princes
so closely united by the ties of blood
to their most Chriflian Majesties
this aflbrance, which his Majelfy re
gards but as the immediate and ne
cefTary consequence of the principles
and sentiments which have always
directed his condurt:.
Signed, "Grenville."
At Whitehall, 1
Sept. 21,1792. i
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
A WRITER in the American Daily Ad
vertiser of the 14th inft. under the signa
ture of Lu c t us, fays, " it appears by the public
prints that there will be a coined for the office of
Vice-President, which becomes vacant 011 the
3d of March next. For the honor of our coun
try, particularly as referring to iti consistency of
character as a r ipoblic, it is to be hoped that
this " conrrfl" will not appear among the inde
pendent ele£lors, whatever importance it may
ajjume in " the public prints."—The ele&ors of
President, and Vice-President will probably be
mert of information, liberally and independence-,
they will think inA judge\or themselves notwith
flanding all the arts employed to bias their o
pimons, and to place in an unfavorable point of
view the grefent occupant of "the important
ilation" of Vice-P'cfident. The calumniators of
Mr. Adams pretend to be pcrfeflly fatisfied with
the administration of the President of the Uni
ted States—and while they discover great soli
citude to depreciate the former ih the public efti
ma'ion, they scarcely rifo a whisper against the
latter ; to fay nothing ot the monarchical features
strongly impicffed on this mode of conduct, a
few simple qu (lions will set its invidious quali
ties in a flrijung point of view.—Has not the
administration o* the supreme executive given
the highest fatisfaftion to the friends of our re
publican c«n(titution ? Is not the Vice-Presi
dent, so far as his " (lation is of importance"
fully implicated in all the applause so justly paid
to the chiel magillrate ? Has ihe eye of
jealousy difcovcred a single trait in the conduct
of thel'e gentlemen, during the period they have
been in office together, which sullies their tame, or
throws the fainteft imputation 011 their public
chara&ers ? Does not the rcafonin* therefore
that applies to the removal of the one, apply
with equal force to the removal of the other ?
But, fay our brethren of Virginia, Mr. Adams is
attached to a hti/anced-government ; he has writ
ten iaiavor of the JJiilifh contliuiLion—"a go
verrimcnt of king, lords and commons."—] faj >
not go into a defence of the orinciplos contained
in Mr. Adam's writings ; they are bftorc the
public—and if his euetnie* would fuffer the peo.
pie freely to read and judge for theinfelves, f
am fully of opinio thai the rcfult would be,'' o
remove the mists Of prejudice and error with
wh\ch party has in some parts of the uniou cloud
ed the public mind ; the writer of thit is well
informed that a gentleman. f n public life, 0 f an
acute penetrating under (landing, and wliofe re
publican principles can never be doubled — attcr
reading Mr, Adams's Defence lad winter for the
firll t:me, was asked whether he lound that woife
to contain the anti-rtpH.b\ican principles imputed
to the writer : he replied, " direCtly the revcrfe"
— that in his optnion, c< the Defence ot the
American Canfhtutions," is the best defence of
a hrr republican government in n,c F.:. 1 lan.
guaj/e."—lt is abundantly evident ih.»t toe con*
ftttotion of the United Stares i founded on li«
milar principles with those of everv Sate in im?
union — and as it is well known, thai Mr. Adams'*
opinion had great Weight in forming many ot
the Stale LovjlitutionSy aud the conftirution of the
United Stales :s confefledly an improvement up*
on all of them ; it must neceflavily follow, that
it has a decidcd preference in the judgment of
the Vice-President—accordingly we find it ths
fubjeft of eulogium in the last letter ot the 3d
vol. of his Defence. In short, his known at
tachment to this government hoi been one of the
obje&ions to his political cbara&cr m
the minds of his enemies—but it seems to have
been lately discovered that this objection wiii
not suit the prtfont temper of the times; a moil
earneit solicitude being manifefted by the tede
ral intertft through the union, to retain in the
public councils this firm patriot, this unconupt,
and independent politician.
With refpr £t to the candidate in oppofitioii,
started orignally in a pretended *' ex>rad of a
letter from Camden South-Carolina," it is ob»
fervable what pains the writer of LuCi us takes
to induce a change of whe general sentiment re-
Ipe&ing his political tenets—but recent eirrum-.
(ranees firtvc to evince toat Mr Clnwvo'l op.i»*
ions are not changed. The house of reprefentj
tives of the state of New-York, in their address
to the Governor, in answer to his fpeeck the
present feflion, have recognized in pointed iern»s
the bleflings derived to the people, and to that
slate in particular, from the operation of the ge<*
neral government; but the reply to this patriotic
arid federal address, has not one federal feature
in it. " Impressed (fa\s the Governor) with a
high sense of the happiness we enjoy, under ovt
excellent conjlitution, it will give me pleafme to
concur with you in every measure that may tend
to perpetuate the bleflings it is so eminently
calculated to confer." Lucius fays, " it is to
be prelumed that many of his (Mr. Clinton's)
objecfc,oris have been done away by the amend
ments"—this," it is to be presumed," is a con.
cession made for that gentleman, which not one
thorough-paced antifederalift in the Union would
make. Has one individual of that party evel
made a funilar contelfion ?
The amount of all this business Adams
mull be fct aside—his honest and independtot
principles have always been in the way to ob«
ft raft the machinations of a faction. Alter va
rious coufultations, it has been determined on
to set up Mr. Clinton as a candidate in appor
tion to Mr. Adams, not as a friend to the repub.
fican interest in the United States, but as one
who would concenter the greatest number of an
tifcieral votes. In what quarter these will prin
cipally appear, it is not difficult to determine—
but, fhouM the plan succeed, is it not evident
that the fpint of the constitution wil' be in
fringed ?—lf the state of Virginia should io
feft fay that Mr. Clinton (hall be Vice-President
of the United Srates, will Hie notdi&ateto ail
the dates in rcgaid to this important officer ?
The provision in the constitution that the
President and Vice-Prcfident finll be ele&ed
from different states, was not intended as an
ideal business—but where is the difference be
tween a powerful state's conftitutinr the majo
rity in both, cases, and choofmg both from among
its own citizens ?—Will the people of the Uni
ted States consent that any one state shall give a
President and Vice-President to the Union ?
Mr. Adams, it is insinuated by Lucius, holdi
certain principles unfriendly to republicariifni-*.
all the world may know what that gentleman's
principles are—He has never been in the habit of
concealing his printiple«. «jti|er, er ;a
Europe—These principle* are republican, in the
true it sense of the word—his country has for ma
ny years, and on innumerable occasions, derived
the mod solid and durable advantages from tho(«
principles. Mr. Clinton, it is readily conceded,
has rendered important services to hisconntry ;
that country has remunerated those service
there must be a change, or a serious profpeft of a
change, in regard to his present before
he will relitiquilh the profitable government of
the flare ot New-York, for the honor of being
of the United States, or the writ
er is very much miftaken—lt is not to be pre.
fumed that this idea has escaped the advocate*
for his election in a particular part of the Union
— but there was great difficulty in coalefciug in
favor of any other competitor to Mr. Adams.—
The consequence, a choice by a very small pro
portion o* the electors, in cafe a diviGon could
be excited among the northern electors, wis not
considered of the fmalletl importance, however
fubvei five of republicanism—-The real republican*
of our country are happily apprized of all thefc
manoeuvres—the dtfigm ot those who, under
the pretence of foftermg republican principle*,
would destroy every bauier of freedom, by ren
dering the government of the Union contemptible,
are fully cotnptehended—even in that state in
which it has been said, that Mr. Adams would
" not have one vote"—" To give a republican
tone therefore to the chara&er, that
may tend to prcferve our liberties lorever,
let the cn lightened electors of the fevera 1 Hates
ftilTdiftinguifii by their fufFragcs, those illustri
ous patriots, Wash i ngTon and Adams—men,
whose lives have exhibited one continued feriel
of facrifices and services, for their country*
happinefj, freedom and honor —-whose uprij!
nets and integrity are the fubjefts of extoite
panegyric from those who would make a J*pp°J e
political opinion the foundation of a profcr pti
or» from the public favar. MARCIS.
A r ov. »9» 1792CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES?
Monday, November 19.
Mr. Mercer from Maryland took Ins
bill leccived from the senate by Mr.
Otis, their Secretary, on b riday, enti
' led "an ad to regulate foreign coins and
for other purpofts" passed the fenate,was
K ad tlie tii ft and ftcoud time, and made
the order of the day for Monday next.—
Interim (o be printed for the life of the
report wa* lead from the trustees of
the fund for reducing the public debt,
dating their progrefa in the buiinefs pur
fua.it to the acts of Congress.—Ordered
to be printed for the use of the house.
A petition was read from the executor
of the estate of the late general Sehriev
ner, of Georgia, stating Lhe loss of cer
tain continental fecuiities, the property of
the heir's of said jdeceafed refeued to
the committee of the whole 011 the fubjeft
of loft ceruiicates.
Serecjl petition* from iov?!ids wt:e
read and referied to the committee alrea
dy appointed on similar applications.
A memorial was read from the society
ofthe people called Quakers, refpc&ing
the Indian war, fuggeiting the import
ance of an invelUgation of the grievances
ofthe Indians, and of peace on just and
equitable terms. —This memorial watfrom
he delegates ofthefociety alTembled from
New-Jersey, Delaware, Pennsylvania, and
part of Maryland and V irginia.—Laid on
the table.
Mr. Williamfon called the attention of
the house to the fubjeft of American fea
men —he observed, that it was of the
greatest importance that the number of
jiative fcamen should be encreafed, and
meaftfres adopted promotive of that ob
ject j he stated the inconveniencies the
American commerce laboured under in
■confcjjuetice of ihe number of Jlri
tifh seamen employed in navigating Ame
rican veflels : he recitcd several in (lances
in point, which have occurred within a
Ihort period, and which have been pub
liihed in the newfpapers.—>Thefe iafts
refpe&ed the violent taking of British
sailors from American veflels. After
hinting at the inseparable connection be
tween agriculture and commerce, he iug
geftea various modes by which native sea
men might be encreafed j he adverted to
the necessity of provilion for lick and in
itm seamen—that hospitals ftiould be e-
K&ed, and a fund provided for the pur
pofein such way as on mature conlideia
tiun (hall appear advifeable.
Mr. Williamfon accordingly moved,
That a committee be appointed to pre-»
pare and report a bill for the relief of lick
and &rftr*i fcftmen i this motion w»s a
freed to, and Messrs. Williamfon, Law-
TOnce, Goodhue, B. Bourn and Barn well
wtrc'ajt pointed.
Qn motion of Mr. Parker, the report
of the Secretary of the Tieafury on ma
rinehofpitals—alio the report of a feleft
eoromittee on tbe fame fubjeft were re
ferred to the fame committee.
Mr. Williamfon then offered the follow
ing motion, that a committee be appoint
ed to prepare and report a bill for pio
moting commerce, by the encreafe ot A
ir.erican seamen : agreed to and referred
to the above committee.
Mr. Boudinot moved that a commit
tee be appointed to prepare and report a
bill or bills providing a nniform fyttem of
bankruptcy throughout the United
States.
1 his motion was laid on the table.
In committee of the whole on the Pre
sident'? tpeech to both houses, (Mr. Law
'unce in the chair.) The speech was read
by the clerk, and then in paragraphs by
'lie chairman.
On the fivft paragraph,refpefting the In
dian war, Mr. Boudinot after adveiting to
the confidential communications received
fiom the supreme executive, relative to In
dian affairs, proposed a resolution expref
live of the fatisfadfion of the house at the
meafurts which have been pursued by the
executive to effect a peace with the hostile
tabes— -this motion was withdrawn furthe
pi'rpofe of bringing it forward in the house
Mr. Parker moved this resolution—
That it is the opinion of this committee,
that provision should be made for the wi
dows and orphans of those persons who
may have been killed while under the pro
tection of flags of truce to the Indian
tribes, which was agreed to.
Mr. Sedgwick moved, that it be re
solved as the opinion of this committee,
that that part of the Piefident's speech
which relates to the Judiciary fyllem, be
referred to a feledl committee, to consider
and report. Mr. William Smith proposed
an addition, by incoiporating in the mo
lion the clauft in the'ipeech, which refers
to a description of offences against the
laws of the United States—This addition
was waved, that it might be made the
fubjedt of a fcparate and particular refer
ence.
Some conversation ensued refpefting
the most eligible mode of taking up this
business, whether by a committee of the
whole, or by a feledl committee ; the re
sult was, the withdrawing of the motion
by Mr. Sedgwick, for the present.
On the paragraph of the speech rela
ti?e to the intercoufe with foreign nation*,
Mr. W. Smith moved a resolution to this
purport, That provision ought to be made
for that oljjeCt. This resolution was a-
greed to.
The paragraph relative to theYoreign
loans being read, Mr. Fitzfimous proposed
a resolution to the following purport :
Relolved, th?t it js the of ijii#e jftf U
committee, that measures ought to be
taken for the redemption of io much of
the public debt, as by law the govern
ment has a right t® redeem ; and that the
Secretary of the Tiealury be dire&ed to
report a plan for that purpose.
This motion occationed a debate, par
ticularly with refpe£t to the last clause, re
ferring to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Madison, Mr. Mercer, Mr. Findley
and Mr. Page, obje&ed to, and Mr. Fitz
fimons, Mr. W. Smith, Mr. Sedgwiek,
Mr. Williamfon, Mr. Hillhoufe and Mr.
Murray, in various views supported the
proposition. A motion to strike out the
words, toward the close of the debate,
was not decided when the committee rose,
and reported progress.
Mr. Murray moved that a com
mittee be appointed to bring in a
bill to alter and amend the clause
in the Militia La-w relative to arm
ing—A difference of opinion taking
place between Mr. Murray and fonie
other gentlemen refpetfing the ex
tent of the revision of that law, and
the hour of adjournment beingpaft,
the motion was not decided on.
TUESDAY, Nov. 20.
Mr. Murray renewed his motion refpeftjng
a revision of the Militia Law. He offered a
resolution in the following words— 41 That a
committee be appointed to bring in a bill sup
plementary to the Law,'parted the last
felfion."
This resolution was altered, on motion of
Mr. Williamfon, and by consent of Mr. Mur
ray, to read, " a bill to amend the Militia
Law/'—Some debate eufued on the question
to agree to the resolution—Mr. Murray, Mr.
Greenup, and Mr. Mercer, I'upported the mo
tion ; Mr. Williamfon, Mr. Hillhoufe, and
Mr. Fitzfimons, opposed it. On taking the
question, the motion was negatived.
Mr. Murray then laid the following motion
on the table—"Thai a conrnittee be appoint
ed to bring in a bill to repeal so much of the
Militia Law as relates to the arming of the
Militia."
Oil motion of Mr. Ames, the report of the
Secretary of tlie Treasury on the petition of
Joleph Henderfon, was taken into confidera
tioii—this report being read, the following re
solution was submitted, viz.
Resolved, That there be allowed per
annum, to Joseph Henderfon, for liis Cervices
as Naval-Puyinafter to the Navy Board for
the Eastern Department, from s'h August,
1778, to »78a
This resolution, with the Secretary's re
port were referred to the committee of t!ie
whole, to-morrow. The petition of Miran
du, Strrgar was read, and referred to Meflrs.
Giles, Macon and Niles.
The memorial of William Cooftable and Co.
merchants of New-York, was read—stating,
that owing to an unavoidable accident, the*
have not been able to furnifh, compleat, tl»e
reqtiifite formalities, to obtain the draw-back
of the duties 011 a quantity oftt-a, actually ex
ported from New-York to Dunkirk, and not
re-landcd in the United States—and praying
relief in the prc-mifc;; referred to the Secre
tary of the Treasury.
The Petition of" Dr. John Bartlet was read
sfnd referred to a Teleci: committee, consisting
of' Mr. B. Sourn, Mr. Clark and Mr. Kittera.
The petition ot William MJckay wa» read,
and laid on the tabl^!
In committee ot ihe whole on the Prefideni'i
Sorech—Mr. Lawrence 10 the chair—The con
federation ot the resolution fubmuted by Mr.
fnzfirnons ycfterdav, was refumed—l.hc moti
on for ftriki'ng oist these words, " and that the
Sccreuiy ot Lhe Treafuiy be dirc&ed ,t/> report
199
a plan for that pnrpofe," wasfurtlier dcb«ted —
and on the qucftion to »gree to this motion, it
was negatived, 31 to 25. —An amendment was
propofsn by Mr. While, in thele v. ores, " so
far as contijls with Ihe present revenue of the
United Swtea." Tins motion was negatived.
1 he original refoluuon was then put, and auorit
ed. . '
1 he. paragraph of the Specch delating to the
loan of the bank ot theUrmed States being read,
Mr. Diyton propoied a relolution to the follow
ing pujport-
i tut the Secretary of the Treasury be dirctled
to report a plan for reimburltng the lo;m of the
bdiik of the United States, agreeable to liic pio
vilions made by law—l his reloluiion v. as agreed
to.
The Speech being gone through with, the
committee rose and reported that they had come
tu iundry itiiilutmns 011 the fame—The report.,
was laid *,i , the table, and tile House Adjourned.
Philadelphia, Nov. 21.
By the (l-.ip Fanny, Capt. Braine, from Glas
gow, arrived at New-York, London and G!af
gow papers are received to the 4tli October—
By thele it appears that the National Aflem
bly closed its career the 21ft September—Oll
that day au address to the National Conven
tion was agreed on by the Afl'embly—Alter
the address was read, and approved, a deputa
tion from the National Convention havingen
tered the Hull, their (pokefman (aid,
" The National Convention has lent us to
inform you, that they are constituted, and
that they are going t» repair hither, ta com
mence their fittings."
M. Francois, who was in the chair, inform
ed the deputation, that the National Legilla
tive AlTeinbly had just decreed, that they
(hould proceed in a body to the Thuilleries,
to serve as a guard to the Convention.—All
the members immediately rose up, and thus
terminated, after the existence of a year, the
uoue. which the French
nation marched with giant strides towards
Republicanism
The firft fitting of the National Convention
was on Friday, the 2ift of September—M.
Petion, F-refident —The Secretaries, Mefl'rs.
Camus, Qondorcet, Vergniaud, BrifTot, La
fource, a'nd Rabaut-de-St. Elienne.
Two proportions by M. Manuel and Ma.
thieu, caused a long debate—the firft moved
that the Piefident, whom he called the Preli
dent of fiance, iliouid reside in the National
Palace : that he Ihould always be preceded
by the bridges of the law ; and that when he
entered the Hal], the people Ihould always ho
nor the National Sovereignty, represented in
his per on, by rising up.—The latter moved,
" that t(ie Convention, invested with the So
vereigny of the People, ihould begin its pro-
by a grand ast of that sovereignty—
It mult, (laid he) annihilate in their name all
those authoiities which subsist in the empire,
in order that the power may revfit to the
people."
Theft'jifopolitions were combated by M.
Chabgi f pfto concluded bis remarksJby frying,
" Deciari} that you will invite (he French
people, in the Sections or Aflemblies of the
Commons, to ratify or reject those decrees
which } ou pass."
M. Couthon said, " Let us all swear to
maintain the Sovereignty oj the People—the whole
oj that Sovereignty— and nothing but that Sovereign
ty."
After various propositions, which occaficn
ed some debate, the following, presented by
M. Cheuier, was decreed by the Convention :
" The National Convention declare, that
there can be no Constitution, but that which
is accepted by the people. They declare al
so that persons and property are under the
protection of the law ; that they will after
wards concert the mode which the French
people at large thall pursue to manifeft their
opinion refpefting that Constitution which
(hall be prelented to them."
It was then moved, " that the National
Convention (hould expressly declare, that all
the authorities at present in the exercise of
their functions,thall be provisionally maintain
ed until-further orders."
This occasioned some debate, and at lafl
the principle of the motion was decreed in
the following words :
I. Those Jaws which have not been abro
gated) and those powers which have not been
suspended, (hail be provisionally preserved and
supported.
IJ. The taxes adtually existing (hall be eol
lefted as formerly.
Convention was about t« terminate
the fitting, when M. Collot d'Herbois, ftart
itig up, cfied out, " There is one declaration
" which ought not to be deferred, even till
the evening—it is the eternal abolition
'•or ROYALTY ll* FRANCE."
The Deputies all rose up, and demanded,
that it might be put to the vote*.
M. B:tzireexclaimed against the enthufiafni
which had taken poffeffon of their minds,and
requeftcd that a question of fiich magnitude
(hould be debated with that calmness and dig
nity becoming the Representatives of a great
People.
Various plans were then offered, a: d the
Convention at length passed the following
Decree •
« THE NATIONAL CONVENTION
DECREE, THAT ROYALTY IS ABOL
ISHED IN FRANCE."
This Decree was followed by loud and long
continued applauses, and the exclamations of
Vivt U Nation !
The procefs-veVbel of this fitting was or
de> ed to be sent by exprcfies to all the depart
ment-.,, and the armie-, ai d to be proclaimed
on the morning of the 22<i,in the Ctt> oi Pans
—The fitting rofc at half after four o'clock.
In Saturday's fitting the Convention de-
all public aftr fliall be dated, " Tie
jfr/2 year oj tJit French Republic. '
11. 1 nat the State Sea) flaali be cl»anjc**L
and have for legend, »«frtrrch HcptMh. '
111, That the National Seal Jliall reprint
a woman fitting on a bundle of arms, a:>d l.a«. -
i'ig in lier hand a pike with the cap of JibertT
upon it; a*id on tlic exergue, 44 Anhiv<s of
the French Republic."
JV. That all the Administrative and
ciary Bodie? lhould be re elected.
. " That Judges may be cliofen v ;rl out
aiftiuytiou from among the Citizens."
Extract oj a Utlerjrom Iljpanioid, CY.V r \ ' y
il A Ihip is arrived at Cayes, wit!< }y: :r _>«
of the battalion of Aube. Tbele troops, who
were much abused by the enemies of the pub
lic good, appear to be well difpojed, perfectly
well disciplined, and shew great impatience
to be led against t ; .ie revolteil.
" The fliip St. Anne, which brings the re
mainder of the battalion, appeared for a mo
ment, but has been again driven out to lea
by the currents.
u It is time France lhould think of as.—
Fifteen days more and all was loft.
u We wilh much for the arrival of M.
de Montefquitu, to re-eftabblh goodordcr At d
enforce that obedience which is due to legal
authority.
" We j nft now hear, and the intelligence
may be depended on, that Cavillon, Jeremie,
Cayemitte, Petit Trout, and L'Anfe a Veau,
have surrounded the rebels of Petit Trout,
had pursued ihem for nine days, and killed
almost the whole of them; the fiirvivors
prayed for raercy, and all 15 restored to order.
It lhould be observed that they had as com
mander, no agent of the old executive."
A correspondent observes, that tbeoppofers
of the re-eleffoon of the Vice-President, have
carefully avoided the affirmative in their dif
cuflion of that gentleman's pretentions to the
fuffrages of his fellow-citizens-—well knowing
hi»mbitthr? and Jfrtmces an
ble barrier to the force ©f thole wire-drawn in
sinuations which have an influence on unin
formed and prejudiced rflinds—-but, continues
our correipondent, the artifices of these theo
retical and intolerant politicians, who torture
opinions, not imbibed in their school, into
ci imes, will most afTuredly fail, so long as rea
son and common sense ihail influence the con
duct of the citizens of the United States.
A correspondent observes, that the experi
ence of the good people of this country is alto
gether opposed to the doArine of tho e who
appear so zealous for coniUtuting a board of
sixty or seventy financiers. It is not perhaps
too much to lay, that the public debt of this
country has been enhanced one quarter part
from the mode of managing the state and con
tinental money concerns by boards and
committees—-and the event is devoutly to be
deprecated, when the idea of responsibility, by
being transferred from an individual to a coi
le&ive body, lhall vanifti into air—into thin
air.
A correspondent, who beard the motion
made by the gentleman from New-Jeifey, for
bringing forward the business of a Bankrupt
Law for the United States, cannot retrain
from exprefTing his fatisfa&ion on the occa
sion. The efforts heretofore made to bring
that ftabje6t to maturity, have certainly fallen
short of the exertions made on many other
point?, to fay the least, not more interesting
to the people.
Boston, November 7,
Extraflof a letter from a gentleman oj the Law, in
London, to his friend in MaJJachufetts, dated
July 10, 1792.
" Pa i n e has been endeavoring to excite the
people of th:s country to destroy our govern
ment, and to substitute his Utopia. I fancy he
knows more of the " Rights" than of the nature
of man; and can have paid but little attention
to the sagacious, temperate, hu«maneand pratti
cabie dottrines of that true friend to mankind,
our illustrious Adams. If we really fufhrcd
those grievances here which alone could fan£iioo
a revolt of the people—l mean, such as ouf
weighed our prosperity and happiness, a Mas.
saniello or a Wat Tyler, would perhaps
be more likely to carry it than Paine; for our
mob, I find, cannot understand his visions : —
America, I take it, has no mob, nor ever had. In
that country he spoke to a people, under the
very menaces of oppicflion, and who were ge
nerally intelligent enough to undcrilland his Ipi
ritcd sentiments : And as to the several dcfcrip--
tions of people here, who are superior to the
mob (fuclj people, less than any, will not be rea
soned out of their feelings) I take thcfc to feel so
individually, so substantially, and so generally
happy, that it will be at present impofliblc to
persuade them that they are otherwise.
" We fee plain enough how it is in France.
They have fquandeied out so much liberty
among a people, ignorent ot the ule of it, that
there is scarcely energy enough left in the exe
cutive power to extinguish a riot of drunken
Weavers.
" Several attempts have been made here, by
vain Frenchmen (and others who appear to
know full as little of the genius of Joh n Bull.)
to make the "Ca ira" popular; but they might
as well offer him a Ftog—He will never pro
nounce the one, any mote than be will fwsllew
the other."
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVF.Da/ the PORTcj PHILADELPHIA.
B*>que Hope, Miller, Oporw
Schooner Pi i nee of Wales, In ham, St. Kitt*
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cer.ts,
3 per Ccnis,
Deferred,
full /hares Bank U. S. As
4 (hnres, 57
Unfunded debt of U.S. iij6 on the prtp-pij.
And on the Jntereit yp to lit Jsn. 1788,
m ft
12jt
»a/3
per criit, prczn*
m
rROM THE COLUMBIAN CENT/NEL.
THE LOVELY TWINS
'X 'O fay they're pretty, blooming, fair,
Or praise their brilliant features,
To celebrate each shape and air,
And swear they're 41 lovely creatures,'' —
Are words of conrfc—fpoutaneous fruit
Which science yields to beauty ;
Nay, often, the uncultui'd brute
Thus pays his awkward duty
11.
But when through their enchanting
And animated faces, >
The man of sterling ferife descries
Their polifh'd mental graces ;
When he, attentive, hears them speak
In pure, mellifluent measure,
Mild admiration glows his cheek,
His foul dissolves in plea fare !
111.
With timid eye on either face
Alternately he gazes;
The fafcinating charms of Grace*'
His raptur'd fancy praises :
But while he breathes in amorous style,
He finds his wifties vary—
And then, perhaps, a fleeting fmilt
Attaches him to Mary.*
IV.
In vain efTays its art,
His eye its tranquil glances,
For, ah ! his palpitating heart
Is loft itv pleaftng trances!
The fair one by his frequent sighs
His wishes may discover,
- And read in his responsive eye«
The (ond, refpeSful Lover 1
Otlobtr, 1794.
* Names of the Ladies.
COPENHAGEN, August 28.
IT i s difficulttocxprefs the sensation which the ac
counts of the events of the 10th of August, which
the French Minister has received by a courtcr, has
eaufed here- Our court has resolved for the prc
fent to break off all official communication with
France, and not to resume it during the suspension
of the royal authority. Baron de Bluhme, the
Danifti envoy at Paris, has by this time quitted
that unfortunate capital.
TRLVES, August 28.
The Swiss regiment of Chateau-Vieux, which
remained in the pay of Fiance, 011 the 241b of
August quitted its garrison of Bitche, to repair to
Toul ; hut when about a league from the former
of these places, the officers proposed to the men
to return to their own country. This was in
stantly acceded to; each foldier'received 40 car
tridges, and the regiment the fame day arrived
without any accident at Deux-Ponts. Thii corps,
which loft a great number at Nancy, consists of
about 600 men.
LIVLRPOOL, September 8.
Do&ors Piieftlcy and Towers, with Meflleurs
Piinc and M.ickinrofh, having obtained the sub
lime honor of being made citizens of France, we
are in daily expedition of hearing of those patri
otic gentlemen having taken then departure for
that nation ol equality, justice, and profoerity ; for
it i& certainly the duty of every good citizen to ex
ert himfelf in defence of the country he belongs
to—Specially when that country is under such a
government, as he conceives to be the best that
can be adopted.
LONDON, September 11
The town of Versailles has raifcd a battalion
•f infantty, two companies of cavalry, and a
detachmentof artillery A voluntary fubferip
tion of 23,000 liv res was raised in an hour, to
defiay the expcnces oi this equipment.
Madame du Barry has been arretted at Luci
ennes, and conducted to Paris. She was appre
hended about two o'clock in the morning of
31ft ult. &
A person who very properly stiles himfelf a
mad dortor, lately publifoed an address in a pro
Ihctfw'"' l ' eglnnin «' H ' ort b <>« attention of
September 22,
M cle la Fayette Ims published, in the Lev
den Ghetto, the following address to the army
lately commanded oy him.
" At a time, when after having concurred
in two great revolutions, I enjoyed in retire
ment tne success of my constant efforts' for the
canfe of the people, the dangers of the country
"latched me from a private life ; I came in the
micft ot the applauses of the nation, to com
roancLtoe army which the kin- had «„trufte ( l to
me; and t.,e narionaf affemblv de.gned, bv the
organ of tts present, tofavtome, < We on
pofe to the enemies coalesced 'against us, the
Conftnution and La Fayette.' Since this ~
you have had the means of judging ,„ e
Your confidence (hewed me that you approved
my conduct ; your fnendlhip answered to the
tender attachment-wjiich I had vowed to v„ u
Happy to defend, m the midst of fotdiers de-tr
lifeT lal''I al '' the P nnd f ,k '" 1 to "h'ch mv whole
Ji.e has been consecrated, and the conflitution
inthi- t resst at,onal ». fove .r e iS nnyt y £*ve us,l f UUIK i
thi„ relittance ot a tree people to f 0 manv
eifor s re-umted agaiult then,, every thing that
opinions and animate my
tl You will remember, I fear, with uneafmefs
that a turbulent faction, whose movements &p-
peered to me to correspond with those of our
exterior enemies, endeavored to deprive us of
that which makes the force of a free people, res-
pest for the laws and fidelity to the constitution,
which in this moment seemed to me to be our
only point for rallying. My conduit was known
to, and my opinion.-, were snared by you—my
franknefs animated more and more against me
all the enemies of the constitution ; but what
ever were their efforts and their menaces, the
national afTembly, by a majority of two-thirds,
repulsed their absurd accusations heaped up a
gainst me. Ycu know the violences offered the
next day to the national alltmbly j those exer
cised on the loth of August agaiuft the king;
the state of Paris at the moment i'-'ien the ftil
pension of the king was decreed ; thp murders,
the proscriptions which took place, not only
during the battle at the Thuilleries, but even
during the following days. I refer in this ref
pe<st to the decrees of the department of Ar
dennes and of the municipality of Sedan, and
to the few accounts which were fuffered to pass,
while all the papers, devoted to the Jacobin
party, were circulated with profufion. It was
evident, that the measures taken on th** loth
of August were contrary to the constitution atf,
and that they were forced from the national as
sembly. This con vision guided my conduct.
The administrative bodies and the municipa
lities required you to renew the ci/icoath; the
constitution has determined this and or
dered you to obey the requisitions of the con-,
ftituted authorities. It was with regret that I
saw a part of the army so far from the fulfill
ment ot this duty, that I would have spared
them the evil of refuting it. The pains taken
to calumniate me in your opinion, have suc
ceeded so far as to alienate a part of your con
fidence. On the ot-her fide the commifjioneri
ot the national afTembly, who"; accept don
the loth of August, the ex- cutic. the de
crees which violence to 1 c > fchetf them,
deprived me of part o my r C - i-d from
Dunkirk to Maubeuge ; im\ r proposed
equally to destitute me o* u.ai which united
me to you, and to renew against me those ac
cu fat ions which neither the aflembly, the juries
or the judges, were any longer free to decide
upon, in the state to which violence had re
duced them.
" Iu these circumstances, and when the pre
sent faction directs itfelf principally against the
authors of the revolution, against the true
friends of the constitution, I ceased (%' be des
tined to fight at your head, and I could no
longer hope for an ufeful death. What re
mained for me to do > To remove from you a
general, whom you would be forbidden to obey,
and to preserve to liberty a defender, whose in
flexibility has merited for him, in this moment,
the honor of being proscribed. I separate mv
felf, therefore, from you; I fepa> Lte mvfclf
with a sentiment of grief, which it is, at Jeaft,
sweet to pojjr into the bosoms of those of my
companions in arms, who have preserved for
me their affection. I took, before letting out,
all the measures which could anfwet t« me for
your fafety ; and I go far from my country,
where a party reigns which proscribes me, far
from the enemies coalesced against us, and
whom I hoped to combat at your head, to taste,
in my retreat the consolation of a pure con
science and to form ardent willies for the tri
umph of French liberty over all the fa&ions
who seek to enslave it.
(Signed)
This address was certified to the Editor ol
the Levden Gazette by fix officers of M. de la
Fayette's late etat major, who left France
with him, but who have been released from tlie
prisons at Luxembourg. He is ftil) in thatTor
trefs with M. M. la Tour Maubourg, Alexan
der Lameth aud Bureau de Puzy, who appear to
be distinguished by this rigour on account of
their having been members of the constituent
national afTembly of France. In their journey
from Nivelles to Luxembourg, an Austrian of
ficer fat in the carriage with each person, and
30 hnnars efcoi ted the party.
The other pril'oners remain for further or
ders, either at Nivelles, or Luxembourg.
'ixtraß oj * letter from France, brought iy tie Mai! oj
ycjlcrda\.
" 1 Kings in the capital remain much as they
were last pod ; the flow approach of the com
bined armies gives rife to many conjectures'-
their friends attribute the slowness of their ad
vance to prudent well-digested caution, whilst
their enemies attribute it to fear of being fur
lounded, defeated and cut to pieccs; but we
have lome reason to believe that it will turn out
that the wisest councils direst tbeir operations
and that it will appear that measures of confe'
qnence are concerting that will occasion an im
portant change in the affairs of France; in fact
the sensible part of the nation, those who nei!
therwifh to fee despotism re-eflahlifhed, nor
the reign of anarchy prevail, but who anxiouflv
desire to fee a liberal government established,
nch as will do honor to human nature, are (fe
conded by a strong party) bulily employed in
negotiation with ti.e Court of Great-Britain
id tnat of Prnflia, in endeavoring to brii.o a
noitt a proposal from these two Courts, to ac
knowledge the conditntion as accented and
sworn to by Louis XYlth, and upon that „r o u"d
Mr ™rch again up,,, tK-
Throne of France, and enter into alliance with
the French nation for the formation of a Go
vernment upon the above principles. It is
thought that should fuel; a proposal be made to
the National Convention, they would not re
■> e it, as it would be grounded upon luch fai
pnnciples that the nation would not fttfl so
glorious an opportunity of establishing a cation
al Government to pass by.''
Extratl of a Utter from Brighton
tt Wtignfi 30.
, .. . Th,s Place, in its proportion ex
ed S of any P r r °,r fS ° f t,le wrelcil "
ed ltate of our Gaihc nei £ h hours, by
200
the number of refugees, as the capi
tal itfelf; every day bringing over
more or less, as lheir several means
of escape afford ihem opportunity.
" Yesterday, among others, arriv
ed Madame Noailles. This lady,
whole celebrated husband is among
the emigrants, has gone through in
credible hardships with a fortitude
almost unparalelled.
" She reached Dieppe about a week
ago, with an infant child and it:
nurse ; these got away without much
difficulty, the woman pafling the in
fant as her own ; but it was not till
yederday the mother could effecft hei
escape. '
" During the whole time she was
obliged to appear in male and mean
attire. She once offered herfelf to a
collier, to work her paflage as a fai
lor, hut was refufed : at length, how
ever, urged withdefpair, and difclof
ingher real situation to the Captain
of one of the I'ackets, he with much
humanity contrived to bring her off,
by concealing her under a coil of a
cable on the deck (where she was,
incredible as it may seem, obliged to
He for j4 hours) and was landed fafe
here yesterday, exhanfled with the
fatigue and terrors she had under
gone.
" The Prihcc of Wales, with dif
tinguilhable humanity and gallantry,
paid every attention to this amiable
i
A iettei frotu M. Luckuer Lnclofes
a note, received by him from M. Du
inourier, Commander in Chief of the
French .army at Grandpre, in which
the letter slates, that two principal
attacks w?re made upon his left and
right wings on the 13th inft. in both
of which the Prulliaus were repulsed
with loss. A detachment of Prussian
light troops had entered an abbattis
of wood, from which he had fentfive
battalions to remove them. At the
time of his writing, he expe<?led that
another attack would be made on the
[fame day, if the weather, jvhich ifoas
jthen vpry bad, fliould permit it.
THE subscribe*- begs leave to acquaint'the pub
lic in general, and his cußomers in particu
lar, thai he has entered into partnership with
Mr. HENRY KAM MERER, „nd that the Print
ing bulincfs in the EnglUb and German languages
is now carried on under the firm ot STEINER
and KAMMERER, No. 85, in Race-ftrcet, be
tween Second and Third-ltreels.
The Geimrfn Newspaper will he published by
them, as ufual,on TuefJays, Mid all kind of Print
ing work done with care arjd exoeditinn.
La FAYETTE."
A Plantation,
LYING the river Delaware, miles abovt
Trenton, containing 165 acres ; whereon u
a d weiiing-houfc, plcafantly situated, 36 by 24 feet
having three rooms with fire-places on the lowei
floor, and four above, one of them with a fire
place ; a kitchen adjoining, near to winch is a re
markable large fpnngof excellent water, accom
modated with a good spring-house ; a bain 36 fee
by 26; a waggon, chair and fmoke-.houfes, befido
other ufeful out-build\ngs ; a large orchard, chiefly
of grafted fruit, The f>»joi is v.-:!} watered, ar.,'
has a proportion of wood and meadow land, thro'
which the road runs that is known by the name
of the River Road.
A Grift-Mill,
In the midfl of a good wheat country, on a never
failing stream ; the mill-house is 54' by 24 feet,
has one water-wheel, a pair ot burrs and a parr of
Cologne stones, rolling screen, bolls for merchant
and country wotk,&r\ and i -accommodated with
a cooper's (bop, 18 teet square, near the mill
which is about 300 yards from the Delawate, and
very conveniently situated to receive wheat, &r.
from boats pafling down the river.
There are also for Sale,
20 Acres of Wood-Land,
within less than a quarter of a mile of the ali.iv.-
memioncd Plantation, which lies in a fine hirh
healthy country.—For iciuu apply to the lub-
Icriber 00 ihc prcmifes.
Trenton, ORcbtr, 1792
Stock Brokers Office,
N°.4fl, Great Dock-ftrcet, Niw-Yoik,
T'HL Subscriber intending to confine himfclf
A entirely to the PURCHASI and SAI L ot
STOCKS ON COMMISSION, B-gsleavc to offer
his fervces to hitfriends and other,, in the line
0 d ' broker. Thofc who may oleafc to fa
vpr him with their bufincO, may depe'nd upon
having i! tiaiifadled with the utmost fidelity and
fttlpatch.
Oiders from Philadelphia, Soften, or mv othc.
ed'to UIS LT "" ed Statc * wi " bc attend-
May >
To the Public.
MELCHIOR STKINER.
Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 1792.
TO BE SOLD,
On the Premises is also ere&ed,
LEONARp BLEECKf R.
1 ' :•»;/
, - -J '* 1
_ ADVE*PIS]-.MKfcT
This Gazette is fuMJhed in\ o 'rt> FifoStr,*
No. 34, between High, ar.d Multeity 5i,,!,.'
the tailor row resides.
A LARGE (FILAR TO LTT
Sufficiently Captciou* J r7 ., rrl hundred betrieh
inquire as above.
BOWEN's FXHJMTi7.\"7Jf
Wax-Work & Paintings
A 1 the House tately occjnjc-f 1 Ijv r i T , P. '
XX ln Eigh l li-street, is now .r ! 1 '
tertainmcpt of tjie Public e e ' ,_
va net.v Of Paintings, are u „f ■ £rc,t
& F&EN£ii Hi ces
which are new amltai.. pi,-,;,,,, ' *
Also, a large coL. „f ''
NEW WAX FlGiffi t s
Die Exhibition is ouenevei vo- f *, •
}>'dock in the mor„i, lf ', URti , nil
H '.lf aDou.au frrWjl.
and Gentlemen, and Ulj jaiu for Children.
F itzz?z tlie *-*"»• (not
TT , Sj ' { ' <" SM„; n Rcom
LIKENESSES of the WtESIDrV'T 'if t-V
UNITED STATES, i„ W -y
And a variety of ilegant i"Rl>i'J'S in*Fram«,
(e.r-f)
Grand Family Bible.
SACRED SCRrPTIfRES
OF the OLD and NEW TESTAMKNITS, with rie
Apocr*jh«, ,
On.« very large and beautijui » lv > Tyfe,««
THE great imporiance of the Holy Scripture,
imrrefting t.)tv C ,y inrtiyidbrff <hedM„ r txre!*
and lite Wauif
>nd fubhro.ty of it, pa%«, t have so lo nfr m«de J
• capital objea of attention, as to prcciude occa
lion or oppoitunity for euloglum.
, Th f P ic, r or 'ntcrprweof individual, la,
fented this ..invaluable book r? '.he public in/vj,
riety ot forms ; in Come edition! it has been highly
emhclltfticd tvi'.h fuprib engravings, which ha.«
greatly enhanced us price; id others it ha, berg
accompanied with voluminous tOmtAemancs.
i which necessarily encreafed the flit; while a *2
riety of plain cheap copies have genially diffufrd
the knowledge of the Scripture, N and made th«
purchase easy to every class.
Without wishing in the smallest degree to tefb*
the merits of rhe variouseduionr, whether plan,
or ornamented, which the public are already ia
pplfcflion of, it is pertinra'. to remark, that ve r»
many readers of tafteand judgment have (Xore/H
a wifhfora Family Bible unencumbered witha<t
ditions. There fllll appeals room for .another
edition on a beautiful new type, fuperiof in foe
and elegance to any bible thai has V rr bee.i,p,mifd
in the English language, and which, leaving the
adventitious circumftan. e,'of ornament or com.
fnent, iniy exhibit the tirades oj Cod ia their m. *
jiv* iifiipliciiy.
j ®! And God fa id,
Let there be light: and
there was light.
With rcfpcftlul fubmifljon to the and
candour of the public, the following proposals are
offered :
I. The work (hall be printed with the grcatcft
fidelity and attention to coire&nefs both in the
text and marginal references, on a fuperfine Paper
made on pnrpofe, with an elegant new Type C2s
lor the work of (he size of the above Specimen.
IT. The work will be comprised in twtnty
numbers, making two elegant volumes m Folio 5
o be furnidied to fubfetibet s at one dollar e««ch
number. To prevent any complaint* 1 of want <-f
pun&uality, no part of the work wll be delivered
unlef- paid for.
111. The firft number, containing sixty folia
pa/res. elegantly m»nteH, wiU b*" 1 'rn'lV:*! -j. .'*•&
prft Saturday of' July next, when fubfciibers are
so pay the price of the firil and second numbers,
and the price of one number to be always in ad
vance till the work is completed. The fubfcqusnC
numbers to be publiftied regularly on the fitfl Sa
turday of each fuccecdtng month, till the whole
is finifhed.
{Jf-lT Subferiptions will be received in Philadel
phia by ihe Publishers, Thom as Dobson, No. 41,
SouthSccond'-ftrect, and John Parker, N0.259,
North Serond-ftreet ; and b) all the Book feller* :
in Chat lefton, by Will: am P. Young; Richmond,
by Archibald Curtie ; Baltimore, by James Rio ;
Wilmington, by P<ter Brynberg; New-York,f'V
1 bomas Allen; New-Haven, by I fair Beers;
Providence, (R: I.) by William Wilkinfon; Sa
lem, by Thomas Cufliing ; Boston, by David
Weft, Benjamin Guild, and Thomas & Andrews.
City of Washington,
JOHN MOTT,
(iaw^t)
fiensoN, 1.4 M.Y. youh'c,, a ckv^h^'K-
NEW TEA S.
IMPERIAL,HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Of the very fit ft quality, and latcft importation
from Canton, *ia New-York, by retail,at
No 19,
Third,between Chefnir and Marie e; Streets.
N. R. A f(ic Boxci of the above HYSON for f'^-
A TABLE ; r>r receiving and paying Gold
Sjraduot-d accoiding to Law—Blank Martifrft*
A,od Blanks for the various Powers o> Attorney
ucefl'vy in BuiWfs at the Trcafuiyf
at the Bank of the United States.
21
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION
An ELEGANT (.Dlt'tdH ej tkt '
SPICIMEN OF THE TYPE.
PLANS
OF THE
Sold hv the P,ooxsili.kk»4' '
TO bt SOLD BY THE EDITV.R,
1