* . . , • ,4j , ' i.. .. i■ * - _ :• J • "i j I; f ■ I .• i > ! I; * . . ,
A N/ITWNAI. PAPER, PUBi.ISI-itP jy |i»MtSDAVS AND «jVTU»BAyS FfJih'O,. No, 69., Hl<fH-S\
[No. 40, of Vol. IV.]
!! i .
'■ f. • ' >■ -9- • •* ' -vi 1 . f
„• * t -1' K ( ' • ' - . '
•< Grand' Family -Bible.
P R O P O S' A I. S
*O K PRINTING BY SI'tBSCR I I'TION,
An ELEGANT EDITION of the
SACRED SCRIPT T 7 R E S
Of the OLD and 'NEW TESTAM'E XTU, vllih Hhe
APOCRYPHA,
On a very ta'r*c ajtd tepntljn! new T\ft, and fjperjini
t < \r. ff c; » I
TtiE great importance of l lie lU'ly,Scriptures,
interfiling i<> every individual.; the divine excel,
•fence « ft J doAnnes and precept*. nn'd tlife' beauty
»ri*l>ftt»liroMy of its have fitting made it
.a capital »bj<--a» ot auejitioii, as 10 pieclude oeca
iion ox eflpottmiity lor eulogium.
The piety or cntetprize of individuals l»as pre-
Tentcri flits nivafiinble book to,the public;in a va
riety ot fonhs ; m some editions it has'beed Highly
e-mboliillied with fupeib engravings, winch ha«e
j;re>tly enhanced its price; in pily? fieen
accompanied with v.olumuiv*)» conrmenunei,
which neceOarily Uic tize; while a va
ritty .Vt plain ei'rtUp crftneS hsftft general}? diffirfed
+hL'*(Vi:owiedge of the SrttJWlej Snrt made the
nnwrhale easy to every class.
Without wifhiivg in the IfnaHeft decree to leden
"tfie merits'ift the various edition's, wnefher plain
or ornamented, which' the public are in
mlTofflon of, it ts Dcrtinent to remark* that verv
Olinv rejdeis of taste aud judgment hive ex pre ffed
a with tor a Family Bible unencumbered with ad
ditions.' There ftiil appea'is room , tor another
edition on a bcaiitiful new type, luperior in size
and elegante to any bible that has ycrbeen printed
111 the Ervgli-fh language, and. .which, Isaving the
adventytops of ornament or com
ment, may exhibit the Orddcs or .God in their na
tive simplicity.
SPECIMEN,OF THE TYt'E.
5 And God laid,
d Let there be .light: and
there Was light.
With rc/.#?£U.uJ Civbipiflion judgment ami
candour jof the public, the f^)lpw.ing 41 e
~
I. The wftik'{halljbe printed with tlic cafelV
-fidelity and attention to correfV-.tefs boih in tflr
.text aifd margin. 1 references, on i iuperfme Paper
made on purpose, with an elegant new Type cail
for the york of the,fize of the above Specimen.
11. The Work wiil be computed in twenty
•number*, making two elegaii* vohifnes in I'olio;
,to be lufqiftied to fubfctibers at one dollar eacjh
nyqiber. To prevent any complaints of. want of
punctuality, no part of the work wll be delivered
unless paid ft>r.
• lit. Th<£ fir ft number, containing sixty folio
elegantly printed, will be fu*nilbed on the
firfl Saturday of Jujy next, when fubferibers are
to pay the price of the firifc and second numbers,
and the price of one number to b' always in ad
vance till "the work is completed. The fwbfequerf:
numbersAo be published regularly on the fiiif Sa
turday of csrch succeeding month, till the wlfou
is finilhrd.
Subscriptions wi.il be received in Philadel
phia by the Publifbers, Thomas Dqbsqn, No. 4;.
South Second-lVeet, and Joh n Parker, N0.259
Second-ftreei ; and bv all the Bo«k(cHers :
jn by William P. Youngs Richmond,
by Aichibald Curne ; Baltimore, by James Rice ;
Wilmington, by Peter Bfynbcig ; New-\ork,by
Thomas Allen; Nevv-Haverl, by iHiac Beers;
Providence, (R. I.) by Wilham Wilkinlon; Sa
jem, by Thomas Cufb ng ; Botton, by L-Jvid
Weft, B njamin Guild, and Thomas Sc Andrews.
; - 1 ' ' '' Hie' ffERS. tp the' ' ' .
-'»•> 'Tdntine
Arc informed, ihit a general rrleciine js to be held
at the Staic-Houfe in this city. Vm Saturday the 3d
jday ot November next, at 1.0 o'clock., A. M.
agreeably to the sixth articlc oh their aiTaciatioii.
By order of the Agfnts,
EBENEZfcR HAZARD, Sec'rv.
Philadelphia, Sept. 15, 1792. (rpt>33)
Universal Hymn Book
To be Sold W THOMAS'DOF.SQN T , and other
Bookfcllers in Philadelphia,
o '
ACoHttfion of PSALMS, HYMN'S, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS; ftle&U'ftdrh different
-Authors, and published by Order of the Con
vention holding the Do&rir.e .of ihe-Salvation of
all Men, met in Philadelphia. ?-«s> i 79]-9 ] -
Price of a fingVbo'ok, bb&na,3 Btbs qf a pollar.
wuh good allowance 10 tho'fa Wh'6 takeVparitittes.
Augull 4. (?P"*)
P L
!i ' B y-r'Vii ; E
City of Wafliington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DO)mON, CAREY, \OUXG, & CWWHAKK.
fTj- T/i$ -}OVR \ \L sj .f '» THiRI) SESSIOX
ef Ac . I :ke UNil'Eft. STATES, may be
had oj the Editor hereof.
■TOR THE GAZETTE 0 F TIjE ITE.D ST-AtsES.
ATTEMPTS in different shapes bave been j
made so re,pel the charges which have been J
brought aguinft the Secretary of State. I'liej
defence of him ho tore vie t in the'q«iUfctsi* in j
he bis been .principally afiitied/fhah "illCh fcrtp
gone 110 farther than a mere lhe\v of dsfefadiug'
him. I steak A* r t° .his-improper (
with the Editor of the National Gazette;. Bin
a more feriout and more pfaufifele effort
; been made M v'Pate the ari
j from-hfc having bedn originally an 'ofcje&oir
Ito t lusl pre fan t*xp n ijit u t ton' p£ r I jUpi (q tre j.
.: Ki»i" this purprtfe; fevprijl.. letters ( %ijl.t£; hf vfcl
bee£»nrjtjten^Wj, j¥ffer(o|i,,'w(;iJe m^ur^pd,*
have'been cpiijmunit'atedr* How' far .tpey aife:
gefiafne kttersjor tfiW.?ftbHL4flAnV'^l)3\^'far
ftaJe"beeil alttfetfwiii\ftU4t¥4'Wlii;
life the mahiiepof their Iocs; Ilei
tis*!, and. doMtt+T Jf-i'
CStrtiift of tbp (itb in
the American Dajly.Aaver.tifer of tne loth mlf.
j ttiiugh It. (cerAs to bfe intended* !iS of rheone
rtiinfroriiftl Ins th& "V"?r-
cription given ofit
fflTps,to liav.e,fef,nit}, for,
prefsly dates with regarcj. to that. jtiat
TvTr. JefijiTonafteT fiftving,'declared'kis(k|
'thfe' '61' tte dMiWrattfinfr lii>*op
tNe ednftlrtitiort'f>^3<se«l<fe ; t6 t'tiitoiYate Uti ihithJf
merit> which he tuiflics to be secured. The
wbicla'y* ff{,j^lulL.qf'r^/its',
a,s thQ^ir to jje
the of.foyr,States-—which by no "leyu ;
fatlsfies the latitude of MK
fioris." ' ■ : 1 '■ '" 1
Sucti-netoftlfeteft, as it is y it affords an ad
drtional confirmation of that part of the Ame
rican's ftatemeut, which repi'£fents Mr,
Ton. as havipg ad v. fed the people ot Virginia to.
adopt or not upon a contingency. ~
It happens'likewife that the letters which
have been communicated Vend tx> confirm th<j
only parts of thb Aineriean'Vftatfement of the
fentiinents and?condnft of Mr. JefferJoti, hire.
1 latffoatfrth* conftitHtiori wlvich remained I to ba
■ fuppiorted ; namely, that h&v:as oppoied to it
in fymcttf ifi iqqjl • iv; port ant ffij y >cs, and -at firfl
went A; far as to diiccunfenance irs adoption.'*
By this I underft'and \Vithou't previous amend
ment; '
N S
■A-
WEDNESD AY, OCTOBEII JJ. IJ<J 2 .
Pronl the si fft of* those letter.?,; da ted u Paris
the 2X&December, it appears that Mr.
Jefferfon among other topics of objcjftioi), " clif
liked, and greatly difiiked tlte abandonment of*
the principle of rotation in office, a:;c] ir.oft p ar
ticular fy in the cafe of Ptefulent from which
tlte inference is clfcar, tliat he WOtild hc(ve \Hoi
ed the principle df rotation to have extended
not only <feo ttoe -executive, but to othpi
branches of the go.vernment, to the. Senate at
! Jeafl, as is explained bv a fiiufequent letter. —
This objection goes to the ftrufrure ai' the go
veVnnient in a very important Article ; and
while It juftifies' the afl'ertion, that Mr. Jeffer
forf was-oppofed to the conflfifcution, in fomco/ ih
mojl impoitant features, it is a fpeciipen,of the vi
iionarv system of politics of its author. Had
it been confined to the office of chiet
it might haVe pretended not only to plaufibiiitv,
l?Ut t6 a degree of weight and refpo(sHbilitv.
Bv being extended to other branches of the. go
vernment, it aflumes a different characlef, and
evinces amine} prone to proje.ifh, which are in
compatible with the principles of liable and fyi
tematic government; difp6*e"d to multiply the
outworks, and leave the citadel weak and tot
tering.
But; the faCh not the meri/<bf the •objaftioh is
!jp ipfteri^ljpp,^., : iitcWl® 5
.uliwup to the. suggestion, which has, be.eri.i)}ade.
It now* only'remains to (ee.howlar It .ivpro-i
♦Ed; the!
adoption of the conft'.tution in its ptfiTtltive,
twrm.' 1 I
Of this a person acquainted with the manner
of that gentleman, and with the force of terms,
will find fufficietft evidence in the following
pafTagt: 1 ' Ido not pretend to decide, What would
be the heft method ot procuring the establish
ment tfft'ie manifold things ill t.it confti-
Uition, and o igelling r:d oj the bid: whether by
adopting it tti hopes of future amendment ; or
after it has been duly weighed and canvafTed by
the people; after'feeing the parts they generally
dislike, and those they generally approve to fay
to tlMm'i " we fee now what von tvifli—■'end
together your deputies again—-let them frame
a couftitution for you ; omitting what you have
condemned, and eltabliihing the poweis > on ap
prove-"
Ms. lefirfou did not e-tplicifly decide which
two mcries waslieft ; and whilew is dear,
notdeteimined irr favor of an adoption
without previous amendments, it isjioWiflicult
to iuier front the teran of expression employed,
that he preferred the last of tpe tco modes ; a
recurrence to a lecond convention. The faint
nefs of the phrase " in hopes of future amend
ment," and thtf einpbaticat method of difpjav
ing the alternative are fuliicient indications of
the preference he entertained.
The pains which he takes in the fame letter
tec remove the alarm naturally inspired by the
iufurrcXion which had happened in Malfachn-
157
• -■ • ivsfc mii Z
fctts, are ari additional illnftratibu of the fame! tnde jof the'at!v'ic«. which w«:.risen rtfoeftin?
bias.— It is not easy to ur.derttand what otlipt jt le Fi\-utlf debt. -it j/s i..pv i-mit! fiiutla c|)in
flbjsA iis .comments 01 t!»t, .circnmttantej pany ofadvejit.iriiVg (peculators iw« otfe.cij t.»
qould have, but, to obviate the anxiety which it) pnrcliai'e the "debt at a diicount, f.«rrfcriii;> tl.
was cakiilafed'.to inljjilV, for an adoption off delay of paviiient, < nkiVUt.iut; t;,e ptnliabid'lof,
the tdnttitutfen, ivitiout a previous expert -1 and willing to e/rcunnter tfie - hraaM. Tbe
ment' to auiend it. j forms employed. by Mr. te refute rhi-;
1 It.is no£pa&!Me,bi avoid remarking l>y the
: way, that; tittle ctyi}inpnts afibrd a.furijqus, and
cbar3|fterijlic ljimple ol'logic .and c?\ci;!aoiaii.
'' ons rebellion jn thiiteen States, iii the
eUi'ti) ytai's is ; but one tor eacfi State ii.d '
I'tyrituH'Aml i-bilf White It feiWs'Hid
fl^cbdlrie : ii three >u*Bt's. .la tie
of tup 9(l^
>f?? n
.they are the giotiud of calculation,-;— And tbms
afttiVeiaWe (BphVtln is 1 grivelytiiJldfe a •BAsis (if
politicical couluiation and' c«H3fi£t.' : Fofr afc-
IrottJing to tiki data fated,'it Mti s.ai ti tref tlijt
$ht(> lwibad ome : r%llipn.\#,,eJpv,dii
tlteif fyfety;' aito
wcliire,a> that Franc; had had three infurrefc
tionsfii tni'ie'years'. ' '
Thus it appear^'Trmn 1 the "Ver/ dot'inuerts
OfVMv.
Tit Iftfaa in tite> fir#'iuHwife
.tlJp adoption of ,tj(j, cpnfntutton,
idea of an attempt at previoyp. y.
a fefpnd convention ; which.is 'fjle only part >f
'thi ■aifiga'Hoirt trf'th<s Alftcritsffr 'rtiif remained
'to : hsKft»lffli«i/ .: " ' 1
As»tothole letters of Mr. JeferDhj which
are. iiibftjquent tp hfip.knowledge tj}9 i
tion of the cunltitution by the. recp.i'.:ita m.mUi
prove nothing but t! ;;i Mr.
Jefferfon waj to play the polir.ci;.:
They can at best -oniy be received as.a'&'s ot
fubmifiion to the opinion of tta majority, which
he profefies to Relieve infftlflibkf-n >rsfi£**lftg
alj p«fiilfl<2 JiuiwKty, not hi iidua,
but his judgment^
ft will pe remarked, that there pppears to
hav'e bee'it nd want of vfcrfatiiity in hts opinions.
They kept ptiee tolerably well with the*]) ropjrefs
ot'tic business, and were quite as £cucnimt
dating as cii cnmfi. inccs (".-cnivd to . i cqiiiic.—
Oh the 51ft 178?, when .the p.riaption o
the conilitution va:, known, the \l.riou",
weight y pbje( "l ~S~. 1 ■ 1 fTo! v
■d themselves into the (Yniple want of a bill <y.
igtits; in November fotltfwijir, 011 the firengtl
if the authority of three Stilus uimg'it.
hat inilance, tlu- maxim of implicit_dpl2rencf
or the opinion of a 111:jority) that k.:e!y ibli
ary deleft acqigic; a companion, in a reviva
.f theobfeftittn to the perpetual re-sKgftilitj
)f the Prelident. And' another, convention,
vhich appeared no very alarming expedient,
vliile the eutire confutation was in jeopa,rdv
:ecame apobject to be d /■' ■'' whvn partial
■mcndnients' to an already eftaWiihcd ,'cuniti
iflorfwbrt altyAe 111 qufiftion.
Prom the fluctuations of fentimen't v/hlchap
>ear in the letters that have been piiblilhed, it
5 natural to infer, that had the whole of Mr.
[efteriem's ,correspondence 011 the fubjeft been
iiven to the public, much greater diverfi'ties
vould Have'been ditcovered.
In the preface to the puWitatiori of the le't
ers under coitfideration, the question is put,
' wherein was the merit or offence of a favor
ible or unfavorably opinion of the
md to whom rendered V
It is a futticient answer to this qu'erfion, as it
■elates to the pnefent difenflion, to lav, that the
ntimation which was given ot Mr. Jenerfon's
lillike ps the conft'.tutioi., in the firft instance,
vas evidently not intended as the imputation
if a pofjtive crime, but ;ts one link ii> a chain
.f evidence tending to prove th,at the National
isifetteWa? cttAdtlftcd ilhtitr His ailfpites, and
n confoiVnity to hi* view>s.
After lliewing that the Editor of that paper
vas in his pay, and had been taken into it foine
hort time previous to the commencement of
he publication, the inference rcfnlting from
:he circumstance, of that paper being a politi
:al engine, in his hands, is entleavbred to be
.orroborated, ffrlt by the ftfggtfttohthai Mr.
lefferfon had originally serious objections to the
•oaftitutio!); fecpmUyJjy the further fuggeftio.i,
:hat he h?s difapprpved cf mcft of the impor
:ai?t measures adopted in the course of the ad
nWiftration of the government.
In this light, and with this special reference
vera those iuggpftions made ; and certainly, a:
ar as tliev are founded jii fact, th<; argument
:hev afford i; fair and i'o; ciblc. A tonefpnn
\: ."cv of the principle-, and opinion". of Mr. Jef
'ji'oii, v it'a :>< complexion of ,1 paper, the
■ortdurtor of « Vch is in the rc«.i;l;i,- pay of his
lepartmcht, is surely a ftxong continuation of
he conclulion —that tire pap.ji is conduced un
ler his influence, and ag'Cua':>!y to his views.
Nothing but a known opposition of sentiment
on tba part of Mr. Jefferfoh to th'e dotfrines in-
culcated in the National Gazette, could obvi
ate the inference deducible from his afcertain
9«l#nd Vliny BHtraordinarY qonneftion with it.
A coin«idence of £ntii«ents is a dirert and ir
refiltaWe ponflrmation of that inference.,
An effort Scarcely plausible has been made by
ArffticWs* to explaifi away the turpi-
* The 'Ildl iijfimilarityaf flile ard manner, leant
M doubt that the u riter of the firjl pitct.Jigne'd " Arif
ndes." is a dijft rent perf n j rnin tie unlet of the fojl:
The Jar cei are uell marfialhti.
DHIL'AVCfcPHtA
[Whole No.
fpecie.s-ef ppolt&y. His words an , ' k 31. there
is a,danger the .payments i'-t fytfg /»wm
tua/', 11||l)niit v.-hc:iicr itmav notbj? teiytbat
ti.C c/'j ' ichith i * d!■< ■• r/lfionld '<<■
tr&nifeWaWot\\ a < ?r; lrfi9hd{&jf(t,ill''zvW&k hate
fu much u.tha'btevffo a&* ■fwv*u- \*nf*ahr>'
j .He If I#^:gifto ttrif!ft:^7/io"-
tints Koulfljui[z t (Vogitjj£,\vjjitfiAfqupte
in Hfs'cbn
ciptloiijithe jlirtc'lfcf fc W ■' fcuil tft WOtatcfl on Asia;/
anjl Jofv! ... j . iuii Iw.o! '■■'■ •il-.'ii
pany expected to purchase' at an
from the probability, tJint *Ue csoH't oT'f.raijce
isa OIJ tftis
rfi6V«*J ii Iftfc •4tie»cV'r>4^fcl*S't''-
miglit be left •Brefl Stfc -
ment; not tiiat the'y caJ«u!i.e<t" Wl material
dfiay, or negl&t wfym tin' .transfer frould b'
mi'de si) tbeLn! ' 'pVcbaHlv inade 1 d very
tliffiient*?alhtl4tiorf, -fto ft/at 1 aV'it''♦"MM
Jha oi-fHei Uhilcd.' SflKe-.
M wegWt pwb; pone cri'iitsi «Jc*iwfilch
nnfji^ho
iir.polhbiiity of' one pai t tie.ii^.
from aiiQ,tlier jn the public appreli'ejfion ; tnis
: H>'V*trM6ns to
lreiviite'fftrW. "AMI I'd it j H TfVAAi'liis
jvb worbiitiiat Jifaj i(effer!bn unlfarftxioti i*. . '
• Bud irttf^«iConJ<'>ttW itaiptitfcftafe,
Wre-anavl'aDoies; i I'dlfit c-rvt»f[lfpo<nilstionla';
ifijaj jf f(T«ip t i;
M fj ?fifa ,u d|A ,:d
I'eacli o{ faith... . . ; . ,
Tt si 'ffue, >¥< 'a'llfcWte'd;' l tfiar > Mi*.. l jeferon
neritiched'aA alternative, the obtaining-of mo
ey by ijcw, loans to reiniburfe rhe court <
Fraiicc ; but this is not mentioned in any \Vti
that derogates from, or the ad\ ice yi
-ii in the h.rft insane c. Me merely piefenl" :
alternative, in cafe the Mrfl idea firouicl he cii.
approved.
ilt may-he addad fhn*; the r.dvice refpecbir:
the transfer4»f the debt littjfe more hoaiir
able to the United Stages,, a,-? it .se^ardtd »tl.<
court of Franee, .tjxui. as it .refb^Aeclthe Ditff i
company. "What a blejuifn on our nationa
character tint a debr of so fscred a nati:ic
should have been transferred at so confiderablv:
a loss to so. meritorious a ere •* of-L .
A flill less plausible effort kn made tr
vindicate tjhe iNfttiopfll Gazette from ibe thar£c
of being a paper deypted 4;o the calumhiatiiiy
and depreciating the government of the Unitcc
States. No original performance in defence ol
she gfli-eVnttient, Vjr'ffs mfe&ftires,'Ms) ft is £a ; .d
been refilled bv the Editor of that paper. A
few publications of that tendency have appear
ed in it ; principally, if not wholly iirice the
public dcfellion of the initiation of its con
ductor.
What''a wretched apology ! Eccaufetlic par
tiality ha-? not been fa-daring and unprecedent
ed, as to extend to a refufal of original pub
lications in jlefenee of the government, a papei
which indufti ioufiy copies every inflammatory
Publication against it that appears in any part ci
the United States, and carefully avoid; every
infwer wh ; ch is giyert to (hem, even when fpe
rially handed to t!>e Editor for the purpose, i
jot to be accounted a malicious and pernicious
mgine of detraction and calumny towards the
rovernment ! ! !
But happily here no proof nor argument is ne
relTary. The crije chat after and tendency o!
:he paper may be left to the evidence of even
•eader's senses and feeling l ;. Aiid Ariftides, a<
jften as he looks over that paper, must blush, ii
15 can blpQi, at the afTcrtion, u that it lias
\boundcJ (\\\ce jts commencement with publica
tions'in favor of the meaiuies of the govcrn
nenf."
Deception, however artfuHV veiled, fcldbm
'ails to betray Tome unsound part. Ariftides
mures us, that JVlf.Jefibrfon u has advajly refufed
n any ioftancc to mark a single paragraph,
ivhich appeared in the foreign prints for repub
icatiOn in the' National Gazette. On what
ground was futh an application to Mr. Jefferfon
nade, if he was not considered ai the patron of
:he paper ? What printer wouidmake a similar
Spiication to the head of any other depart
nent ? I verily believe none.—And I consider
:he circumstance fated as a confirmation of ih<
-elation of Patron and Cltf.nt, between th<
of State, and the Editor of tV.e Na
tional Gazette.
The refufal, if it happened, is one of those
little under plots, with which the rr.cft in
triguing rp/Wi in the United States is at no loss,
to keep out ol light the main dtfign of tie
drama. • CATULLUS.
UNIVERSITY of PENNSYLVANIA,
October 12, >792.
THE Medical Lcilnre". will begin on Thvrf
dav, the firft ct'No\emler.
. *
&Foreign Affairs.
PARIS, August 14.
THIS capital is now, after fix Jays
of toniult, jii a (late of peace.
The populace no longer fill the itreets
and the crowd round the National
Allembly is 110 greater than ulual ;
even the forlorn 1 huilleries has a!
mod ceased to be ail obje<!t of curio
sity.
Nothing transpires concerning the
coiidutf of the king and queeu in
their new habitation, the temple,rind
indeed there is very little enquiry
concerning them. 1 hey are lodged
in an upper suite of apartments, the
heighth of which as a lecurity againfl
escape, donbtlels made a conliderable
part of their recommendation.
The executive power, in the mean
time, begins to acquire somewhat of
form and consistency. The National
Afiembly have decreed, that a Nati
onal Council ihall lit, for theexercife
of this power, each member of which
shall, in his turn, fill the President's
chair; that all pi oceedings (hall be
in the name of the nation ; and that
their seal (hall itnprefs only the si
gure of liberty, with a suitable in
scription.
The Aflembly determined, that the
King's rcfideme lhotiUl be at the
Teirtple Y to which he (liould be con
ducted ;he next day.
August* tj
The troops took their appointed
polls at two o'clock, and the King
with his family arrived in perfect
fafefy at the temple, of which a re
port was instantly made by M. Petion
to the Aflembly
At the places where the Itatues oi
ormer Kings had been demolilhed,
he crowd was greatest ; and at each
>f these the populace, remembering
low much the glories of these mo
larchs had impoveriflied the nation,
ind what defolatioti their cruelties
Had spread among families, exprefled
their joy upon the altered state of
events with (houts, which might o
therwise have been fparedto a subdu
ed individual.
La Fayette is declared a traitor to
his country, and every individual is
invited to (hoot him, if he cannot be
brought alive to-the bar of the Naii.
onal Aflembly ; he has declared him
felf for the conflitutional King, con
sequently against the Aflembly, that
have invaded every article of the con
fiitution—l»e is at present said to be
under the walls of Sedan, with fif
teen thousand men, and supported
by the whole country, where he is
adored.
The fchtmcr Dumourieris appoint
ed in his room.
The globe, which as an emblem of
royalty was placed over the principal
gate that led to the Thuilleries, has
been pulled down ; and the busts of
Meflrs. La Fayette, Bailly and Neck
ar, which were placed in the hall of
the Aflembly, have been treated with
the fame indignity.
August iS
The (late prisons are filled with
prisoners.—The number of those de
tained in the Abbayeonly, on account
of the affair of the loth, amounts to
a hundred and thirty-four persons.
The Commons, who are made an
swerable forthe feci) rity of the king's
pei (on, are taking new precautions
toenfure their important charge
They permit no persons to remain
with hi in but such as are absolutely
neceflary. They are making a ditch
all around the building where he is
imprisoned ; and besides the exterior
guard, the interior is compofe'd of
fifty men, who for the twenty-four
hours they are on duty, cannoc itir
out of the wall, and who are main
tained at the public charge. Each
battalion of the national guard fut
nilhes 2J in rotation.
August 20
efterday, in consequence of sus
picions and difcoveries,all the queen's
attendants were removed from the
temple to the commons.house, fiom
which after undergoing an examina
tion, they were conduced to the ho
tel de la force.
Forty Savoyards have deferred from
the army of the king of Sardinia, and
prefeuted themselves with their arms
and baggage, to one of the French
generals.
M. Gonvion, the excellent patriot
and friend to Gen. La Fayette, had 1
three brothers, the eldert was killed
at Nancy, in defence of the law; and
the fccond, after having fought with
dirtin(ftion on tlie plains of America,
after having served honorably in the
National Allembly, and nieritted the
elleem of all good men, fended his
glorious career in the battle of Grif
owei. We learn that his surviving
brother, who is a Captain of Artillery,
is now with M. La Fayette in the ca
pacity of an Aid de-Cainp.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
August 9.
A letter from M. Jolivef, a mem
ber, was read—lt set forth, rhat he
liad been yelterday at M. Vaublanc's
house. He saw fcveral people ot the
door—To learn what was going for
ward, he walked up and down the
Rue St. Honore. As he palled by the
Jacobins, he perceived a prodigious
crowd in the yard. He went into
the crowd ; and learning that the Ja
cobins were going to relate several
recent events, he stepped into the
hall. He heard the following ques
tion agitated :
" How (liall the names of those
members of the National Afl'embly
who are fold to the Civil Lilt, and
voted for La Fayette, be made known
through the kingdom?
Then M. Monteaux de Montreal, a_
member of the National Allembly,
Prelident of the Jacobin Club, put the
question thus :
" Lst those who vvifh to pals to
the order of the day, on the motion
of posting up the names of the mem
bers fold to the Civil I.ift, and who
voted for La Fayette, (land up."
M. Merlin interrupted the Secre
tary, and declared that M. Jolivet is
an infamous liar.
M. Girardin asked and obtained
leave to speak. Hefaid, hehadbeeri
(truck near the National Assembly.
M. Merlin a(ked him on what part
of his body. M. Girardin answered
with disdain — behind to be Cure,
where vile afl'affins llrike ; but he de
clared he had not been touched by
any citizen of Pari.?.
M. Vaublanc,M.La Fayette's friend
and advocate, ran to the tribune—
My houl'e, (aid he, was belieged ; the
villains not finding me at home, allied
for my wife and my children ; their
[heads, said they, would lit well on a
pike until mine was placed on one—
my family escaped by means of a lad
der ; but 1 shall never perjure myfelf,
1 shall vote as 1 think. — I voted for
La Fayette yeilerday ; to-day I will
vote for his King and mine. — Let ns
leave this wicked town, where liberty
is no more. No doubt, continued he,
there are few in this House of M.
Kerfaint's dilpofition, few who think
that the matter before us is not fuffi
cieutly important. He concluded
with moving, that the Attorney Ge
neral flionld be summoned to the bar
to declare what measures he had a
dopted to maintain good order. He
added with moving, that the confe
derates should (lay no longer in the
capital.
M. Lagrevole wished the Mayor of
Paris to be sent for also, that he might
declare whether or not he could an
swer for the fafety of th<? National
Aflembly.
M. Choudieux was convinced, that
since the National Aflembly had ab
solved the factious soldier, they were
no longer capable of governing the
(late.
The Aflembly decreed, that the
Mayor of l'aris, and the Attorney Ge
neral of the Department, fliould come
to the bar.
The Attorney-General came to the
bar.—He declared, that the General
Council were informed, that several
members of the Aflbmbly had been
inlulted and (truck ; —that at mid
night (Thursday) the alarm-bell was
to be rang to aflemble all ihe citi
zens, in ordpr to invert the Palace ofj
the Thuilleries.
August 1
M. Merlin—" I announce to the
I Aflembly, that, perhaps, at this nio
■ment, the trenches are open before
I hionville. The PrnUians and Auf
trians are niafters of ihe poll of Ro
demack. My father informs me,that
all his fellow citizens will loofeiheir;
lives 011 1 lie ramparts rather than
give up the town—[applaufes.]
158
The Committee of fafety have more
than 400 letters in their poHellion,
which prove that the plan and time
of this attack were known in Paris,
and that Paris is the focus of the con
spiracy of Coblentz. 1 requefl, there
;fore, that the wivss and children of
the Emigrants, as well as the family
of Louis XVI. be detained as hoftag
es. — Deci ced.— [ A pplanfes.]
A lift was ordered to be primed of
nil the members who were prelent on
the tenth, and of the hour at which
they severally took the oaths, toge
ther with the motives assigned by
those who were absent, and sent the
fame in writing.
M. Bazire read some papers found
in an efcrntoire of the King's, which
contain a llatement of the expences
of the King of France's household ai
Coblentz.
One of them is a letter from M;
fie Poix, who remits to the King an
account of the payments made to his
four companies of Gardesdu-Corps,
since the ift of July, 1791. M. de
Poix remarks with what alacrity he
has executed his Majesty's withes 011
an objetft so ipteretting to his heart.
Anprher letter is dated Coblentz,
7th o<ft. 1791, without signature, the
anonymous writer gives an account
of the military chest, Slid of the Anns
he has received for the four compa
nies. The Aflembly ordered the pa
fperp to be printed, and sent into the
eighty-three departments.
The author of a third, letter, dated
31ft January, 1792, seems to have in
view the reinftatenients of the Parli
aments and the restoration of the or
ders.
The reporter of the Extraordinary
Commiflion informed the Aflembly
that the King's Civil Lift, had been
confiuned in keeping in pay a vast
number of writers, the names and
objects of whose writings he gave a
Hft of. While this was reading,the As
fembly interrupted him by pronounc
ing; the following decree in a rranf
port of rage ! —The Aflembly decrees,
that the fathers, the mothers, the
wives, and children of Emigrants
(hall be put in a slate of arrest, and
be kept as hostage* for the ill* which
the Emigrants will produce in France.
Soon after, a decree of accusation
patTed against Me(f. Barnave, Alexan
der Lameth, and Me AT. Duport, Dn
tcrtre, Bertrand, Duportail, and M.
Muntniorin
August 16
M. Merlin announced, that the
Pruffinns had been driven from the
town of Sierck by Marflial Luckner :
That the enemy while in pofleffion
of the town, had committed great ex
ceflTes ; that they had been committed
by an emigrant who marked out cer
tain victims, and the houl'es to be
burnt and pillaged ; but that this
man had been taken, and is now in
he prison of Thionville.
M. Merlin requeued that a severe
law might be pafled against the in
ternal Emigrants, who pointed out
to the enemy thole citizens on whom
they wilhed them to exercifc their
vengeance, and those traitors totheir
country whom they ought to spare.
The Aflembly said, that laws exist
ed for punishing that traitor, but
charged the Committee of Legislation
to-propofe more severe ones for such
as might in future commit the like
crimes
M. Montmorin 's papers seized
and he himfelf ordered to be arretted,
but he had quitted Paris with his wife
and children fonie days befoie.
August i 7
The citizens came up with an ad
dress, complaining of the flow pro
ceedings of the Tribunals in judging
the Prisoners of State. They said
that if the Swiss officers in particular
were not speedily brought to trial,
there would be a new infurr.e<ftion ;
that the tocsin was ready to be mng.
But the objert of this petition had
been obviated by a decree, which the
Aflembly had just made for the for
mation of a new jury, taken from the
Electoral Corps ; and it was publiflv
ed soon after in all quarters of Paris.
A letter from Marefchal Luckner
was read ; it contained nothing re
lative to the events of the 10th. The
Marshal announces, that the towns
of the frontier, are on the point of
being besieged, and that the loss is
'o great on the allignats, that he de
lires the soldiers pay may cither be
5,1 n '°»ey, Or if continued „r
na A')e 't at r may beinc,f:,rc "
letter from a Volmiin , ; •
ri ' G™„,l D»„,OU.
riei was More aoreeable. He pr„
tests in it that he will a |w» y9 remain
T h "'l «f Z
people. rh.» letter is ordered to be
m' %/' f" to tlie departments.
M- Vei ninaud read a | et ,, r ironl
Valenciennes, which ac( . ;mie(|
one from Sedan, which ga>e the a
larming intelligence that the a*■
ARR?STm OIV, , MISS,ONERS we ' e
ARK LSI LD in i h.nt City. Couri
er arrived a, , he end of the fitting,
which confirmed this intelligence.
M>gust 18.
A letter was read from the home
mimfter, announcing ibat the nrrelt
of rheC'omuiifTioiieis f, o m the Aflem
bly at Sedan having evidently shown
the influence of the generals, the pro
visional executive council, had recall
ed M. ia Fayette, and given the com
mand he held to Domourier.
An address was read from the com
monalty at Rheims, stating that the
three cominilljoners had been arrett
ed at Sedan, and that the life of M.
Kerfain: had heen in danger. The
city and oarrifon having taken the
oath of fidelity to the king, a propo
sition was made to march to Paris ;
the volunteers alone objected to it.
i he Mayor declared he wonld lofe
his life in defence of the constituti
onal authority of the king.
M. Merlin informed the Aflembly
that he had received a letter from
Sedan, announcing that the troops
had taken the oath to be faithful to
the nariorr, the law, and the king ;
and that the city of Sedan is in an o
pen state of counter-revoulution.
The aflembly decreed, that the may
or and council general of Sedan fhonld
be arretted, and that the lives of the
citizens should be answerable for the
fafety of the three commissioners
whom they had arretted. Several
charges were brought against M. Dei
trich, mayor of Strasbourg, who was
ordered to be brought before the af
lembly.
An address was read from the de
partment of the upper Rhine to their
fellow-citizens, exhorting them to
remain faithful to the constitution,
the king, and the allembly.
M. Francois gave an account of the
foneral ceremony in honor of the
slain federates of MarfeilJes.
A sea! has been placed on the pa
pers of M. Roclerer, procurenr fyn
die of the department. He is aecuC
ed of being a friend to tlie king, and
of favoring his views.
O
LONDON, August 15
Through the thick mist of parry,
it needs " a Dragon Watch with nn
enchanted eye" to discern any thing
truly. They who reprobate the pfe
fenr disorders in France, ate ftiled
the enemies of Freedom. They who
defend them, rhe enemies of all go
vernments. Alas! confufion of ideas
is pJone to blame in this apparent di
versity ; and without mutual concel
fion, the fair front of Political truth
can never be discovered. Efficient
government, equally admitted by all
parties in the fact to be necejfary, is
by all, at present, denied there to
exiit.
The present reign of the Jacobins,
and the delation of the common people
of Franco, is not unprecedented in
their l.iftory. The fair provincei of
that kingdom in the time of their
Fifth Charles, were devallated by an
infamous rabble, ft:iled a Jacqueiir
(fotnewhat near Jacobin) whose fir It
principle was a hatred of Nobles, and
whose object was the extermination
of the superior orders. Then, how
ever, a body of ever-ill uftrious
ifined from the castle of Meaux, am
difcomfited this host of destroyers.—
The days of Chivalry, however,
110 more. .
Everv feeling of humanity revc ■
from th? idea of the provinces o
Fiance pouring out their Myrtles
ihe verv gates of Pari s , an<. a, ''' n >->
the deftrtKftive altercations of p»«Y
within. in the enfceblec
the once glorious Rowc, when inn al convulsion rendered her a ready
■prey, " the distant Legions took the
alarm, and gave away the Empire."
AOOCST 23
It is mentioned in an article from
Warsaw, that the Poiifh troops have
refuted to fub«nit to the Rullians; and
that on bearing this intelligence, the
King went to the house of M. Bulka
how, to inculcate bis wilh that the
Ruffians might contrive to avoid thent;
when M. de tiulkahow is laid 10 has e
answered in the following terms ;—
44 The soldiers of my Sovereign are
not to be diverted from their deter
mined course, and death will be the
ronfequence to every one who (hall
dare to oppole them."
Copy of a letter circulating in the
Camp of La Fayette, the Ex-
Gen £ R Ai., as beiscermed in Paiis,
which, though not signed by him,
is universally understood to have
his sanction.
" Soldier CITIZEN?,
" It is not to be diflembled, that
the Conftiturion, "which you have
(worn to maintain, is no more. The
Marfeillois, and a troop of factious
insurgents, have besieged the palace
of the Thuilleris. The National
Guards and the Swiss Guards nave
made a vigorous resistance, but vcant
ing ammunition, they were obliged
to surrender.
" M. D'Atfry, bis.Aides de Camp,
and binrholefittiljr, bwbeen mas
sacred.
" The King, the Oueen, and the
Royal Family, took refuge in the
National Afleinbly ; the insurgents
followed them, and forced them to
decree the suspension of the King,
which was done tofave his life.
" Ckiz6ns, you have no longer
Representatives; the National As
sembly is >11 slavery ; your armies are
without commanders.
" Petion reigns; the savage Dan
ton and his satellites are mailers : —
therefore, soldiers, choose whether
you will re «flablifh the Heir to the
Crown on the Throne, or you will
have Petion for King.
C* .
The eloquent M. Clermont de Ton
nerre perillved, mistaken for the
Prince de Poix, in the mafl'acie oftbe
Swift Guards.
I) U B L I N, August 23.
lOTIL family or francf.
The following particulars tefpetft
ing the Royal Family of France, du
ring the dreadfol scenes which lately
disgraced Paris, have not yet been
communicated to the public.
The King, Queen, and their chil
dren, were thrust into the President's
room, adjoining to the Assembly.—
This room had in it only a few bare
fourms, npon which they lay during
the nights of Fridav and Saturday.
For the firft twelve hours of their
confinement, not a foul went near
th em, nor had they any kind of re
freihment. At length one of the
door-keepers went and pnrcliafed, out
of his own pocket, a few biscuits and
a bottle of wine, which he brought
to them.
The feelings of the unhappy Mo
narch. and his contort, it is almost
impoflible to imagine—in the mo
mentary dread of insult and outrage,
and if spared from the butchering
hands of the savages who were de
inolifbing the Palace, with the horrid
profpetft of feeing their children pe
rilh for wane! Such accumulation of
misery hittorv cannot parallel !
Ihe King and his family are now
in close cultody in the Temple of the
Palace, formerly belonging to the
Duke of Orleans, and their keepers
are the mob.
In addition to the horrid excefTes
already detailed, the mob have broke
into all the prisons at Orleans, and
maflacred the unfortunate prisoners
in cold blood.
'fioftieftic Articles.
TRENTON, (N. J.) o<ft. 10.
On Tuesday the 2(1 intt. the cir
cuit court of the United and
for New-Jersey diltridt, was opened
at this place, before the hon. Willi
am Cuihing, and the hon. Robert
Morns, F.fquires ; and continued fit
ting until Saturday last, when it ad
journed, after trying several causes,
and invelligating and adjudging up
on the claims of a number of invalid
applicants.
KUZABETH TOVVN*, Otf. 10
By the report of a committee of
five, of the Society for promoting
ufcful Manufactures in thu ftate,cho
len agreeably to the charter, ic ap
pearcrfthst there liad been paid in
fay fubferibers, in full of thefirtt pay
ment, and in part of the fecund,
160,290 dol. 93 c.
riiat there had been expend
ed for the purcbafe of lands
on the Great-Falls, for the
lire of the town, a grift and
(aw mill, 14,1^87
For machinery, materials, Sc
implements of manufac
turing- 7,500
For borfes, oxen, carts and
waggons.
Laid out tor sundry materi
als for building, paying fa
laries,laborers wages to the
Ift o<ft. and incidental ex
pences,
Veiled in bills of exchange,
and lent to Europe on ac
count of the fjcietv, which
have been noted for nonac
ceprance,&in jeopardy,tho'
j a probability of laving, per-
I liaps jo per cent.
In the hands of Mr. Duer.
the late Governor, unac
coonted for,
In cash and deferred stock of
the United States, 65,29563
That the Directors have establish
ed the feat of the Manufactory at the
town of Paierfon, at the foot of the
Great-Falls, where they are proceed
ing to etlablith the Cotton Manufac
tory and the Printing and (laining of
Calico :—That there are near 200
hands employed in carrying on the
buildings and other works :—That
the committee have recommended
the fpeedv appointment of an able
fuperiniendant, and have diretfied
the next annual meeting of the Soci
ety to be held at the Court-house in
New-Ark :—That the new Directors
are to reeet next Friday at the town
of Paterfon, for ele«sling a Govrnor
and Deputy Governor.
PROVIDE N C£, October 6.
At the annual meeting of the Stockholders of
the Providence Bank on Monday last, the di
rectors for the lair year were unanimously re
eie<sred, excepting Mr. Nicholas Brown, who
reined, and nominated Mr. George Benfon,
who was also unanimously elected ; —and at a
meeting of the directors in the evening, the
fame gentlemen were chosen Prelldent and Of
ficers of the Bank that filled those places the
last year.
We learn, by a gentleman who was at Bel
low s's Falh, in Walpole, on Connecticut River,
the 2 ift ultimo, that the river was so contra<st
ed at that place, by the late severe drought,
that all the water palled within the space of
12 feet wide and 2£ deep. The river banks
at the place where he measured them were 250
feet from one to the other, and 25 feet deep,
I and generally run full of water.
BOSTON, October 8.
We are well alTured that the number of per
sons who have lately had the Small-Pox in this
town, by inoculation and the natural way, a
mount to nine thousand, three hundred eig.ity
four—of whom not more than one hundred
ninetv-eight have died ; notwitaftanding re
ports to the contrary.
Of the above number, one thousand and thir
ty-eight were from the country.
Philadelphia, Oft. 17.
A merchant of thi? city, has received from I
his correspondent in CbarL-fton (by the Georgia
Packet just arrived here,) a letter dated the Jth
instant, wbich mentions that a vellel from
France, arrived at Savannah, brings news to
the firft of September —That the Queen of
j Franco bad been murdered —that the King and
the Marquis de la Fayette were milling, that
SDOO of the people of Pa "is had been put to
death; and that the Duke of Brunfwick and his
army, were within 30 miles of Paris. Douhrfal. 1
Sundav failed from this port for London, the;
ship William P_-nn. The palfenger; in this lhip
a: e in theca'oio, Mr. and Mrs. Otto and son ;
[Mr! and Mrs. la Peine; Mrs. Jofiah; Mr-. Sta
•'er; Mr. Izard; Mr. Bnchannar, and Mr.
Ga drer.—'There are also, sundry steerage pas-
I len S er! '
| • Y.- FSr. Corfu! of the I n:ted State -
for t.ic Island of St. Croix, is arrived r.ere in the
brig Newton.
A correspondent, who hat'i Teen the large map
of Ptnnfylvania lately pubUOird by Reading
Howell, remarks that the public are much in
debted to that gentleman for his exertions and
■nwearied pains, by which they are now put in
poffeflion of a work performed with great accu
racy, manv parts of which were frem lurveys
mad > at his own expence, and which hath been
executed aud engraven with neatneis and e.e
gance.
159
ELECTION".
Amount ot tue Vote, for Repnjfer.titive; ir,
•r'^ fefi » retarced from Philadelphia Citv and
Uwat>v Delaware, Chester, Bucks, Moiitgo
"nerv, Northampton and York Cuuniies.
Findley »444-*
D. Heifter 14-160
T.Hartley , 4 2 9S
F. A. Muhlenberg 141 M
f. W. Kittera 142:-
W. Irviue
P ■ MahJecberg
T.Scott
T, Fitzfimons
H. Wynkoop
S. Sitgiravci
J- Annftrong
* M r . .Bingham
J. D. Sergeant
C. Thornpfun
J. Barclay
A. Gregg
W. Montgomery
J. Siaiiie
J. Jacobs 2.
2v. Johnfton 2
J. Arndt 2
# Erroneously itated in our iaft at 5221
720
«2,545 43
George Edie, Esq. i, elected fcnalor for toe
drftrict of Lancalleraod York.
Reprefentativej in the General AtiembN- of|
this State •• |
Lenttjicr.—John Brcckbilf, Jofepb V/ork,
James Old, Jam£s Morrifon, Samuel Boyd,
[faac Ferre.
Bucks Cckw/v.—"John Chapman, Gerardus Wyn
koop, Ralph Stover, James Bryan.
SortkjTKpton County Thomas Mawhorter,
Thomas Hartman, Jacob Everly, Peter Burk-
Walter.
50,000
io,occ
A Charleston paper of September 29, fays—
jyiitfijn a few dayspaft, two expreifes nave ar
rived here from general Pickens and col. An
derfon, with dispatches for his excellency the
governor, they contain the alarming accounts,
that a general Creek w*r may be cxpefted
(hortly to take piace; and that the four lower
160,200 93
-Cherokee towns are boftiJely disposed, and will
act in concert with the Creeks. A body of the
Cherokees, Creeks and Shawanefc, in ail about
s>o inen, are now out, and it is supposed will
tall upon the settlements at Cumberland or
Holftein. Col. Anderfon has erected four block
nouses on the frontiers ; and, we are informed
that the governor has sent forward a large sup
ply of arms and ammunition, with orders to
the Commanding oficer in ninety-fix diftricl to
have the militia put in a date of preparation for
afrive duty, and to raise and equip a troop of
horse for each of the regiments.
On Saturday the President of tbeUnited State?,
his Lady and Family, arrived in town from
Mount Vernon, Virginia.
We are authorized to allure the public, that
the following is the purport of* the information
received from Governor Blount.
Qn the nth of September last, he states that
the fcherokees of the five lower Torres on tl>e
Tene'ee, headed by John Watts, had declared
War against the United States, and that the
warriors, according to various information,
amounting from three to fix hundred, including
about one hundred Banditti Creeks, had set out
upon some expedition against the frontiers,pro
bably against the Cumberland settlement.
That iu consequence of this alarming intelli
gence, he b:*d ordered one regiment of the mi
fitia of Wa&ington district into actual service,
and that he bad alio- dispatched an express to
Mejo diftrict,on Cnmberlar.d river, with orders
to brigadier-general Robertfon, to put his bri
gade into the best pofiible fta?e of defence.
| That the Cherokcea had never complained to
him of a (ingle infraction of the treaty cf Hol
| item, nor did he know of one committed by any
citizen of the United States.
But on the 15th of September, he writes that
he had received letters from Efquaka, other
iwiie the Bioodv Fellow and the Glass, dated on
the ioth of Sept. at the Look-out mountain
town, informing that they, with the afliilance
of Jpbn Watts and other head men, had prevail
ed the party that were collected for war,
tadifperfe and go peaceably to their hunting. |
That upon receiving this agreeable information,
he had been induced to difclrarge the regiment
of and to dil'patch an express to General
Robertfon, of Mero district, with orders to dis
charge foch of bis brigade as might be in ser
vice under the orders of the i ith instant.
We have the pleasure of informing the pub
lic, that the Light-house on Cape-Henry is near
ly finifhed, and that a light will, in a Ihort
time, be placed in it.
4>vi«l on Saturday last, br the Rev. Dr.
Sproat, Nathaniel Cabot Higginfon, Esq. to
Miff Salt; Rhea.
ARRIVED at the PORT 0] PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Hope, Stokely, Cadiz
Alfred, Thompson, Teneriffe
Industry, Brewfter, ;
Potacre Bon Jesus, Montro,
Sth*ooer Isabella, Greene,
Swallow, Odlin,
SatreSOTStV " Crojier,
Philadelphia Packer, Tanner, do. I
Recover), Fortefcue, Trinidad
Sloop St. Jofepb, DuMberry, Curacoa]
Suiannah, HortOD, Port-au-.
Thorr, Waterman, Nantucket;
Polly, M'Lane. Jamaica
PRli.t. <Jt yiULAb.
I Int.off.
itjio S
1 3/4
pci cent. prem.
6 per Cecta,
J J«r CcWi
Drfwrcd,
fuU thirti lank V. S. 45
£ (hares,
The Rzpr-HJCAN, No. 4, will appear in our
dekt.
Norfolk, Sept. 29.
Elliot,
Bet fey,
M*. Fa o;
Pleaic insert tbe following extract (so highly
honorable to tbe cit.aem oi Narth-CarolL»
id your paper.
£«/«? cj < utter, imtri 5 -
*792.
3"i -
THE fuperio. com; is rair near!v at a
cioie ciie gr.iud jury were din barged '-vtfter
dav—and what ds great h- to our bonof, oota
u 6:e L made durine
the whole term. T,. ls pro « 5
progreiies -unongft u s tfie lawiare ,c
---minilUred witii taecl. A drcatna like
U.i>, wouid be e-traqrdioary (I p„-
lor.it; even in the State of PeiiuMvaaia, wlm
jiuU_/•
\Wth the ftregoinf, I ftnd yoo tfae tOOrArf
the Hon. joHs Jrau, to his couftinjents. «taV
the grand jury of bis district, »n hh dwiiw
to serve in the capacity of a Keprefrntative in
Congress with ti* anlwer of the jraod j«r»-
which pleaje alio inlert, aud oblige Tom's, "
>3993
11458
i' 373
11163
13441
412,"
3594*
3453
3406
&-
•261
238
2j4
L.
Gintlimex,
THE term ol my r -dion to reprefcr.t ibi« d:-
• Jion in Conjrtfj, the 3d of Marc/v
3 xt, at which pciiod, lhm dctrrin;ned to d;-
ettue ins honor ot tint impon an; truA.
My principal rcaloa for a oeteraiiaation unex
pected bv ill, and I lear aiipk.uag 10 fame oC
mytncndi. u contained ,n this letter, ttc fub
cc w r.e.Tof j-ou aie rctjuelUd to pub;.& .a
your rrlpccttvccountici, punout 10 the eo:u. o £
clectir,a. *
In accepting UtU appmatacai •ripatUy, I n
aiHuenced by an boodt zeai to
|iu«l a laudable aabiiioo ite ctiMHal
|ff my conttuoem*.
| The repeated trltimoaies wfctffc
los ihe latier, atford ibe mot j—Kiiag iedocfci™
f ,cni4 to* nit to cootmue MibecMNMtf ~
»'cfcout..e, .ud -t- | —*--p- —-f| | j
*>|nnciiD<tiaa to retire, if lU W
Hcuftomcd 10 believe that ■ rotation raOScfeu '
4ne ol lac most bluivy i* pottticat •'
Economy. . ">
Ir a (eat in Congress bchonoraW'. or lucrative,
I have enjoyed tbefe advantages long enough : If
buithenfome, a regard to cqiukty would ijitify
me :u declining it.
Refpedting my fuceeflbr—l feel hot one wifti,
that he may be a manor virtue and talents, and
d.it!i:guilhed-for his attachment to order, and
jood government.
As tar as I pofiefs information, which can in
any degree be Ocemea ufetul to him, or beneGcial
u> the public, he may receive it with my prayers
-orii:s perianal happiness, and profpenty.
I luve the honor to be,
Gentlemen,
Wiin perteft refpefi,
Your most humble servant,
JOHN STEELE.
To the Gentlemen of the
Grand Jury,
S4'jbury bijtrid.
Six,
THE grand jury now fitting, have appointed
Mr Ker.daJ, Mr. Price, and Mr. Pinchback,
three oi tbcir members, to wait upon yon and
infoi m you that an anJ'wer will be returned to
your letter on Wednesday next —which, with
your perniillioc, they mean as terwards to pub
lish. Dvr.e v*animt)ujly y «
GEORGE HENRY bERGER, Fcrc*cx.
To the Hon. John Steele.
: tyednelilay, 26th September, at tz o'clock iv
tj* forenoon, a committed of the grand fury
Waited upon Mr. Stole, at his own tnofe m
Saliflmry, and Col. Boon,'(be Foreman, deli
vered the following au£»er: .
Sir,
WE the grand jury of Salifbnry diftricfc,be
ing favored with your very polite letter, m
formiog us, that when tfce term for which you
!:ave been elected a3 our representative inCon
grefs fhali expire, you mean to decline tbe bo
ner of tbat important trull, and have been
pleased to assign.us your principal reafons,which
you request us to publilh in our refpe&ive coun
ties previous to the ensuing ele&ion.
Tnis declaration of your determination, pre
cludes us the pleasure of making you tbe object
ijf our future choice (which we ihould gladly
have done]. And in compliance with your re
quest we will pdbiilh in our refpeftive counties
the substance of your letter.
We hold it incumbent on us to present
iti our names, and iu behalf of our fellow riti
zens, our lie cere and unfeigned thanks for your
pail services, rendered to us and our country
with 10 great punctuality, uprightness and ho
nor.
So very agreeable and fatisfaftory has your
cot.duct been, to us, and as we presume to the
reft of your constituents, that we desire to de
monttrate the fame by every mean in our pow
er, and as we wilh that when the time arrives
to make a frelh choice, we may be able to fix
upon a lucceflor, who (like yourfelf) lhall be a
man of virtue and talents, and who will emi
nently distinguish himfelf by bis attachment to
crdei and good government: The information you
potTefs will undoubtedly be of great service to
him, as well as beneficial to tbe public.
"While you remain in, and wheu you retire
from vour present honorable station, our pray
ers fliall be for the contiroance of every blclTng
and happiness to attend you through a long and
fuccelsiful life.
We aie. Sir,
Very refpeftfoily your humble fervanrt-
GEORGE H. BERGER, Foremar.
John Pinchback, Samuel Harris,
Thompson Glen, Thomas Black,
James Reynolds, John Monro,
John Pat lis, Thomas Poumt,
William Kendall, Robert J. Steele,
William Matthews, Isaac Price,
Joseph Haden, Frederick Miller,
John Menzies Heq»y Hughey.
Andrew Mitchell,
To ihr //»». John Stklf.
Cape-Francois
Port-au-Prince
t Brazil
do.
St. Thomas
do.
Co rots 16,
A. T.
Stftrmhr >i, 1792.- - - ii"... Dils.Cts. Dlls.Cts.
——— " <>:i, Ditto pr. cafe, '-2 S°
PRICE CURRENT !Sv*ect,4>eft, in flaflcs,pr.l>Ox 10 50
tar ,# c D'itlo baikets, 12 bottles 5
PER QUANTITY. — DOLLARS 100 CtlltS each. o
* Spermaceti pr. gall. 40;
PHILADELPHIA, October 17. Train 24 ' 27
— Whaic 26
DUs.Cts. Dlli.Ct».
A . 7rijru)C .. _ Porter pr. calk, 5 33
£ « P „I London, pr.doz. >6°
AUrnn, Mgl>lVpr.cw«. 433 , American dmo boi.infcl. .4 ' <i°
D.uov Roch pr.lb. - " Pt.ch, pr. bb! ,33
A lhe«, romper ton, too Po , k) Burlingl(J11) per bai , clf „ „33
a . ' ' n . ™ , c* Lower county J°
ArracK pr. gall. >33 '6, Ca ,. ohna , 9
Brandy, common, i Peas, Albany pr. bulhel 73;
Coniac 12° Pepper, pr. lb. 20
Braz.iletto, pr. ton. 3 2 34 Pimento 18 20
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 D - , n
Bread. Ihip. pr.cwt. >~$J 2 heft, pr. keg q
Dllfo, pilot 3 33 5' ° Pf'J" " 5
Ditto, small water, per keg 36 40 P" ,H pr- bo* 3
Beer, American, rn Wtle., * ,ce P'■ cwt - , 25°
pr.doz. bottles included, i> f° lln pr.. bar,el 233 *6 7
-Ditto pr. barrel, 4 g. Jamaica, pf. gallon , 7
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 16 "t»" tl j Ua 1 lor
. » >T . 1 1 ~ t W inefward 80
wew England 11 u
——Oak 89 Barbadoes 03
-\terchantable pine 16 17 * Country, N. E. 6/
j Sap, do. 8 It pet.re, pr. cwt. 14 33
--Mahogany, per foot K pr. ton 0 8 .
Tbe.abpve are tlnr.fbaUwp tAicPs, 10 * _ ditto 140
for the yard price; add 1 doK itee , German pr.lb. <)
J*r 33 tents per 1000. —hngl.fh,bliftcred, pr.cwl. 10
, . i American pr. ton :1 3 33
Bi't-mftone in rrllls.pr.cwt. 3 .33, i_£ row W* pr . fogg«* 10 67
Beef, lintton, per banc! 7 X Inake root pr. lb. " 20' 42'
Onn;ry d.tto • 6 7, Sdap, ftrown per lb. 6|
per cwt. ■' 333 46- Wbi(c R
Bu,t "- .?■;•. ,b : , ,-rniu .. .4 .1 «< f-Caftilc
-JJUn-kegs , <>| , . 9 , uffil jtarch . .. .. 7
Candles, Sperm, pf. •*!>*♦ 4; >riu!T pr. doz. bot. 4 5 60
-Wax 53 'Ipermaceii, refiSird, pr. lb. 48
. -- M> rile Wa\ 1 • nlcloth, Engli(b,No.i,pr. yard, ,28
~ " louUi <jta.low 11 Boston, No. I. d.tto 30
rv D «' d ; " . No. 11,
Ciiccfe, JEnghih, pr.,lb. , " t"gar Lump, pr. lb 24
r U : '' Loaf., Tingle refined 26
.ioco,ate >7 Ditto, double do. 36
Cuniamon 040 ,6; Havannah, white .7 %
OVCS 1 01 Dino', brown,
' 18 ' 5 rw« ,3
w" ~ tIE iS'T'aa ' »• g
Copperas nr. cwt. i"o T • , 1
Cor«la«e„.Amerie.ft, P erewt. j f»7 8 I_] c^V/" 0
Co{tQn pr.lb. 26 4c , n 4
r r ' Ltfbon <2 r 27,
9 lC . . 1
nrr P build. W. O. frames p.lon, 12 13 93
Duck,Ruiua, pr. piecc 11 3 k- ~ r
~ 1 1 or J 'tto Live Oak, R'i 16 67
— L Bqi q6; nt» 1 j r
T\. ut • 1 1 1 rt Ditto red cedar, per foot 40,
Du»tH fail dudk, 18 o ,J,J 7
ihitigles, 18 inch, per M\ 2 33 2 67
Featntrs' pr. lb- 40 Ditio 2 feet. 533 6
flax ditto f n IDitto 3 drefTed, 13 15
Flax feed pr. bush. 7,5 Staves, Pipe pr. 1000 ' 29
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 5 White Oak hogfticad, 1933
Common. 46; —Red Oak do. " 19 50.
■ Bur middlings, befi 4 21 33
Meal, Indian 2 y ■ Barrel 10
ditto Rye, 24c —Heading 2667,
Ship-fluff pr. cwt. 80 i ikins, Otter, best pr. piece 467
Fullic pr. ton, 20 J— -Minks ' 'do 40
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 6 : grey 40 80
£)o. pr. gall. 8 Dit'o red 120
Glue, pr, cwt, 20 21 3; —Ma.rtins 24 1
Gingci;, white race, per 7 .yijFiflvcr? 33 67
common ; —-Bears
Dftto, ground, pr.lb. \ -j—-Racoons ' 27 60
Ginlcng, go 2 Musk-rats 11 20
Gunpowder, cannon, ,pr. q.calk, 3 73 4 pr. lb. 67 1 33
Ditto, fine glazed 4 -f Deei, in hair 20 30
GrauV, Wlicai pr. bush g£ far, N. Jerfry, ?4 gal. p. bbl. ~o
. Qjf. 47 I—Carolina,1 —Carolina, 32 gall. ,33 167
T , ,3 turpentine pr. bbl. 167 2 1
3a r lev C ° rn »» fobaccn.J. River, b«a,toolii. 360 373
Best (Helled-pr. lb. 3 1 HZZ'';'" 10 ' 3 33
Buckwheat, per bulb. 4 o , Rappahannock 333
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 12s 1466; ~—'—Coloured Maryland, 533 8
American, pr. lb. 4 ;-I Dark, 240
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 ■" Long-leaF 2
Hides, raw pr.lb. g ~ Eastern-shore 2 2 93
Hops Carolina,new 27 3
HogDiead hoops, px. M. i 5 ' old, ' 333 :
Indigo, French per lb. Ito 1 m Ica 'Hyfon pr.lb. g 3 t2 g
Carolina , , ? c —H>\n (kin, ,53 67
Irons, (a.d pr. ton, ,3., „ 0 Souchong, £0 93
Iron, Calling; pr. cwt, 43 50
—-Bar pr. ton, 826 rTI x , , 3' 33
— Pig 24 6 fallow, refined, peril. g
— Sheet 173 3, ; « P r ' box > 1333 1367
\ailrods g6 " Verdigreafe pr.lb. 47 „
J-jnk, pr.cwt 4 5 Verm.llton, do . , 4 . 7 „ ,
Lard, hogs pr . l b . g JcV arnilh, pergallo a 33 07
Lead, m pigs pr, cwt. 5 30 r si- „• . • . dJ J/
—-—in bars * • w. Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 226
—■ I 0 J0 g„ l; lli,on 120 126
red 6 0 6 si / : Teneriffe, pr. gallon g 3
Leather, foal, pr. lb. ~ „ ! J a V al
Upturn vita: pr. ton,- 5 . 6o 6 Po»t P r - P'Pf 11333
Logwood 24 lJttLo in bottles, pr.doz. 4
1% P r.bk ?33 I - pr - gan - v !«
— frcond quality 6 8 Wax, Bec s 'pV lb. " B °'
Madder, best pr.lb. ,6 2. '*'hah -bone. lon-pr lb *
Marble, wrought, pr. foot", ! oo 9 . x <* '' 3° '
Malt spars di'tto 03 r
g .b!'. «' i 0 , cornsf. err ExafAK'CE. !
flour, in bottles, pr.doz. , , " "1' "lays, per ftcrl. 460
Niils, U iod.nd. and »erf. p,.lb. .. at qooay,' «7 33 |
S l 7w lb - 7 ' 8 - guilder,
OiU LjnW, pr. gail. Sj
' — ' at 40(716 pergmider,
|: I TO BE SOLD MY THE EDITOR
»r W I I outcs.and in Foreign Ships
including Uie additional Duties ,0
• ch 'he iefp(,^t„ e Articles a:c liable.
PRICE CURRENT.
PER QUANTITY. — DOLLARS 100 (-CUtS each.
„$?/• ', H u- tJI " earnrlth re„M
all thofeof h,s iuifcnten, uihofe a<cou*tTk,e T£ t
r s . pr - d - s >"- >
*••' —«
a"/'/' 'S* 7 ' 'chnowirdprtrt is due to l/wf
whofi piuißuohty has enabled the Editor th< h, t
c°nt,vu( tht.p»bliat,m-he is obtigkto vbfenttit
J° great is the expence attending
large tkt amount qJarrearages, that i I >LE fn ! r€, ceiv:ng and paying Gold—*
imboibl am ° Un 1 n^fPeed ''y realized, H"*kkt Wlila r °
mpofjute for him to continue the Gazette zvit\ aw r, \ J. ,lauks fo > »h* various Powers ol Atfornev
Jcrc.cc to a dtjiant and n the Tr«.u • 0
tnc Hank of the United Siaics.
Dih. Cts. DUs. Cti.
a .&o
io 50
5
also,
160
NEW TEAS.
IMI J ERI/\L,HYSON &SOUCHONG,
Of the very fiiO quality, and latefl importation
from Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third , bet ween Chefnui and Market Streets.
100 Dollars Reward.
LOST on Canibiidge Common,
on the afternoon of the 18 h lilt, a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK, with a fttt! clasp, containing
a number of valuable papers, among which wen
the <ollowinff Public Sfcurities, viz.
Maffachufetis State Notes—No dared
pccember 1, -1782, payableVo Thomas Greenwood.
for £.23 i6j. principal— No. 22.399, dated Ja
nuary j, 1785, payable to Nathaniel Partridge, JOl
if. 10 lOi.' principal.— No.. — —, darted ]annpiy
1, 1782,' fan army note) pSyab'le to' Timothy Hoiv
ard, for/". 8 Bs. id. principal.— No. — , a Not
(ihe number, date, and to w4iom payable, not
known) for /'. 3 04. 3d,, pr incipal.-?One Jndeni
Ccriificate lor Four ajid a New-Hamp
fiiire Certificate for about £.12 payable to John
and Daniel 7enis'\ alfoa niutibr'r of' Notes of H,rnd
one of whjch was for £.572 given by Nathar
Pond to Samuel IV. Pomcroy (by whom it w*s <n
dorfed) dated 1 ft iMav, 17.92,, and payable 011 the
1 ith August following ; the others were all paya
ble to the Subscriber. The Securities are checked
It the different offices from -whence thev were
ifTued, and the Notes of Hand by the different
I lifjners, they can therefore be of no nfe to any but
1 {l.e owner.
. Thfe Subfefibcr hereby offers a reward of One
Hu NDR ED D.ol 1 Ast s to any Vfrß)ii op pcrfons
who has found the fame, and will rut«n them to
him, or leave them with the Printei' hereof, and
uo queftiohs \vill be asked.
A 6 R A FTA M FOST ER.
Sa'em, Muffachvfetls, Avftujl j, 1792. fepM)' »
Stock Brokers Office,
NGreat Doci-llreet, Njw'-Yqsk',
THE Suhfcn'bcr intending to confine' him'felf
entirely to the PURCHASE akbSALF. o'f 1
STOCKS. 0* COMMISSION, Begilrave tbrtffer'
his (epiiccs to hisiriends and .otbeft, in the line
rita Stock Krokcr. Tbofe who may. pifafe to fa
«or him with thrii buii'iiefs, may depend upon
having it franMed with (he utmost fidelity and
iifpatch^'i
Oid<*»sfrpm orany other
[>att the United State\ J* liLbe firUtly attend
jd to'.
I ; Max 2.
BOWEN's FXHIBITION OF
Wax-Work & Paintings
AT the Hbufe lately occupied by Mrs. Plne,
in 'Eighth-ftfeet, h fiow tfeady for the en
tertainment of the Public.———-Anion a great
tariety of Paintings, are a number of
ITALIAN & FRENCH PIECES,
which are new and very pleafuig.
Also, a larpe collection of
LEONARD BLEECKF.R.
■ (t.F.r
NEW IV4X FIGURES.
| -The-Exhibition is ©pen everyday,from nine
W'cldck in the. morning, imtfl rithe in
4 T ?~' —A<ftnittance Half aDoll-ar for Ladies
;4n«f Gentlemen, ami hat] price for CMkiren.
? Ticket's! {for the fc&fbri, (ndt
.Two Dollars.
: _ For Sale, at the Exhilifioh. Reorns, ■ '■ -
: LIKENESSES of the PRESIDENT of the'
I UNITED STATES,, in \\'AX, , ~ :
Ahd a vafiety of Elegant-PRlN'rs iq Frapies.
f! Sept. iat. .. ' (eotf)
War Department,
August 6, 1792.
JX FOR.MATION is hereby given ro all the
Military Invalids ps the United Starts, Iha 1
the Turn's to which they are iotiiled for fix monihs
of their annual pension. from the 4th day of Match
1792, and which will become due on the sth day
of September 1 792, will be paid on the f<* 1 d day
bv the Commlirioners of the Loans within the
States refpeflively, under the usual regulations,viz.
Evetv application lor payment muil be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
:fl. The certificate given by the ftate,fpecifying
that the perlon poflTefling the f<tme is in fact an in
valid, and afcettaining the sum to which as fur.h he
is annually entitled.
2d. affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
: c . ame before me, ops of\ the Juflicts of the
county of m Jlate'of and made oath that
be is the fine A. R. to whom the original certificate
in -his pojj'ejjion was giveh, of which the foUowivg is
copy-[ttirrznificat:given by the Jiate to be recited)
That he fined (regitnent, corps or vejfelJ at
the time he was disabled, 'and that he now refidis in
f l' c end county 'ttf and hasrefided
there for the lajl years, previous to whjch he re
\fidcdin
In cafe an invalid (Tronic! apply Tor payment by
an attorney, the fa id attorney, besides (he certifi
cate and oath before recited, mult produce a spe
cial letter of altoi ney agreeably to the following
form .•
I, A. B. of county of Jlate of do
her thy conflitute and appoint C. D. of iny lawful
attorney, to receive in my behalf of my penjion
ior fix months, as an ifivatid of the United States, !
f) om the fourth day of March, one thou land five*
"Jtndrni and ninety.two, and ending Ihe pith day oj
September, one thoujandfeven hundred and mncty-two.
Signed and fealcd
in the presence of
Acknowledged befftrc'mc,
Applications of executors and nrl mini Orator
,m«ft b* accompanied with leg i! evidence oftheii
'Clpcfttwofficcs, and Hllo "I the linie"lhe invalid*-
died, whofc penfjonT ihcV may claim.
Bv cotnhi»i>d o* the"
Prtfident or the United Pntej.
H. KNOX, Sftreii/r)- oj War.
To the Public.
X ttS Center returns hi*- mo st r?!V«f,>
<r. ' iMie rrtS to hi, friend a,,! the p,
tiic many favors he has rr ivivcrl, and |> r ,
fel££? d,em that *!*?»**•
Forte Pianos,
:»rV-f w ? rrant f "P er! '»' f any imports,
ami Which he will difpofc of on reafonabie term,'
J !1C p,reat number of Forte Pianos lately
..nponec, from London and Duffle,, induces the
"tfenber to caution the public apainrt tlie art
ful infinuqfjppTpf persons cotnmiliioned to vend
them who, for a very trifling coiiroenfatior
recommend inftrumenH that are not! is •• fcu?
the retufe of the EnropeaH'Mufic-Shops,"
imported at a mere trifle, and fold fertile fame
price as a good inftrnment r to the <{re;tt :dif;ip
pointmeut of the ignorant pijrcbafeV, who -
neraoy pays as much % repairs,in a year or
"ft of a good inftruinent.
I'- IV ,"sical Instruments let out bv the
month or quarter, likewise
tuned ami rcpaiied/m thb bcij jy.ar.ner, q, d on
the nioil; lcaJonab'e terms, bv
CHARLES'TAWES,
L'Wj . N\(C, \Valnnt, near Third-Street.
B O O K S,
rri nt e'd ax d s6l n by
M A T H E V/ C A Il E Y,
$«'• 1 y^ri.ct-Shcet, 77iiddelj/hi.i.
1. A MF..R.I CAa MUS 1.1 1 M, f, oni its comnv
/ A, rnent in January i 787, tp 1.7(9?., iiv
.eleven Vols. Pi ice, neatly bound and' K tiered
fevcntcen dollars and thrc fifths.
1 Irs work, which is' now conduced onan I'ni
prov d plan, containing ill? .brft.pieces publi.'W
lor and the■pioceecings of
W , e Jr ur !? 10 eonjain at Jeaflas great a vancty.
of politico-agricultural,and miscellaneous tflay,
ai any ever pubtifhed in America, Pei harts irt'tvj
[one work aic so many valuablcidokumcnts Jefppflw
ing n> e history of this count-ry, tugcthir.
His Excelfcncv the President oi the l/mtpd States,
hds declarefl oflr, that " a jrtofe uferiil literary
pbn- ha«! tdvep.been iindena-Tcc n in Afhirrfca nor"
one more deserving ot public chcourag:emrnt.' r
I he fubferi ption is two .dollars and a half per
ann. Geuilcineji in the countfy who vfifh to
be fuppiied with this work H are requeftcdlo give
tofnen'ds in the ctt'v to fubjenbe lor
and receivfe ft• : ' AViy of the back 'numbers
may be had inordcuto complete sets.
2. Smith's Letters to Women,on Xorf-'
ing ancj 1 he management ol Cbijdien.
''We r'efAmtjiend these letters to the ppruGl of
thole to whom they are particularly addkflVd,"—
Monthlyflcvitw, vol. 38, p. ic-1 —Price, boirtid,
$|«cfnts.
3. Elements of Logic--73 cents.
4. Beauties of FieldiHg-'-^o'centi.
,5. Beauties of Blair---50 cents.
6. Ladieff Pocket Ltmtaty', containing Miff
MOl e's h flays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchion<jfs 0/ Lambert's Advipe,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone on Command of Tamper. M'orc's Fables for
che Ladles, Price 6/8.
7. Smith's History of New'-York. Piice a dol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Scieupc, bv Jajnes Seat
tie, 1.1.d. prweffor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Mariichal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book-the
Critical .Revic wers (voli 6g, p. 628! fay : "We
have seen nothing on these fubjc£jU more plain,
more perfpitoous, drmqVVgenerally ufeiui."
X. B. It is nuroduced into the L T nivcrfity in Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry, P/icd lour-fifths of a
< 1"!: ar.
10. Blair's . c ermqns. Price two dolors.
11. N. cker'sTrea; ife on the importartce of Re
ligions Opinions.-- Pried fow'-fifiihs of a dollar.
¥0-. Examination of Ove Oblervatiofrs of Lord
Sheffield on American Commc'rcf r .-Pii£e, on very
fine paper, 5 ikhsofa dollar.
1 3. Tlie<l<Ynflitu^onSo/ the several Unifrd St3(cs,
with the Ke'derfll Conftitui ion, &*C. PricefivC-'
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fiiigal. Price of a dollar.
15. American )tll tfook. Pi ice three-fifths of
a dollar.
iy Tbe Dovvay Trauflojli(>n of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto*-. Price, elegantly bouud aiidkttei
cd, plain, fix dolla>>.
18. Chriftiari's Vaile Mecnjnr-j-Price *
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on'f. Price a Ho' iar,
20. Clitirttßn.l'>*>noniy. Price a fifth ot a dollar.
21. Miflory of Charles Grandilon, abridged -
Price a (ixth of a dollar.
22. ,Poems bv Col. Humphreys —Price a third
rtl.a dollar.
23. S. «6l Poems, chiefly Americao--P" lc£a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large srfTo!t merit<
Books, European as welt as American ledi'ioi J,
which' he wjII di r pole of on th most : J
terms. Country gentlemen, *hof«jvor hini" 1
commands, may depend upon heinj fnpj u
the ntoft" fa fix factory manner. A l»ht"i a.
'to Cuch as purchc?fe quantities for public libra: >
or 10 fell as* 'in.
Witneps.
i: % 7/ e price of this Gazette is Thru D* ■
anm tr.—(he haj to be paid at ike time ojful'fi ' V
John Gould,
n rt i ii. j> r n s er
' ,islVie, ' <!s public m'fere.
■ e,.ound to anj'\yer the purpofc He- ia- t .
vlalJ i. um o ,i e quarter „ fa rl( ; ]iar
Any penon trying tie above, if , nl -
' [tn
16. Garden of the So'bT. Price half a dollar.