A NAriONAL I 'PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENiIO, No. 6q, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA. lj i
[No. iy, of Vol. IV.]
The fallowing Account of
GUM ELASTIC, or INDIAN lIUBBEH,
is taken from THE BILE.
By Dr. AaneasoN,</Edinburgh.
On the vfes that may te made of Coutchovc, F.lajhc
Cum, vr Indian Rubber, in Arts and Manufactures,
with an act, our.t of the manner oj obtaining and ma
nufacturing it.
TIIE substance which forms the object of our
present disquisition is called Loutchouc. by
the natives of the country where it is spontane
ously produced. It is denominated elajlic g •,«,
01* elajtic refirty by philosophers in Europe j but it
is now generally known in the shops by the name
of Indian rubber \ a substance that few of our
readers are not acquainted with. It is a firm,
tough, pliable substance, greatly resembling some |
Jcina> of leather ; but it pofteffes a degree of"
el fticity that cannot be equalled by any known
substance in nature. It admits of beingftretch'd l
out in every direction to an aftoniOiing degree ;
and when the distending power is removed, it
recovers its former shape and appearance. It
neither can be difTolved in water, in ardent
spirits, in acids, nor alkaline in the or
dinary Itate of our atmosphere. Oils, in some
measure, a<ft upon it; but the vitriolic aetheri
is the only complete solvent of it that Is as yet 1
knou'a. It is inflammable, and burns with a ■
clear steady flame, emitting then a flight fme!','
not at all disagreeable. When exposed to a j
cold air, it is more hard and rigid than under a!
milder temperature, but it neither becomes fiu-!
id, nor loses its elasticity, till it be exposed to
a much more intense degree of heat than is ever
experienced in any climate on the globe. It
may, however, be melted by a very intense de
gree of heat; and then it aifumes a thick vis
cid appearance, like some kind; of femi-fluid
oils. And having once been reduced to that
state, it cannot be again made to acquire its
former consistence or elasticity.
This substance is now well known to be the
jnfpiiTated juice of" a tree. The natives in
thole regions where this tree abounds, extract
the juice by making longitudinal incisions in the
bark. It bleeds freely, and the juice, in a thick
state of femi-fluidity, is collected into vefl'els
placed to receive it at the bottom of the tree.
It is then, by means of a brush, spread upon
moulds prepared for the purpose, and fuffered
to dry in the fun, or before a fire, which, by
evaporating the moisture, soon brings it to the
state in which it is sent over to us. Ey adding
fucceflive layers above each ether, it may be
brought to any degree of thickness wanted ;
and by varying the form of the mould, it may
be made to a flume any ihape.or appearance you
incline; which shape, as has been laid, it will
ever afterward: retain, if no distending force
be applied to alter it.
From this limple detail of fa&s, it is easy to '
fee, that the uses to which this substance I
be applied in arts and manufactures are inriu J j
merable, and such as can be effected by no other
known substance in nature. Yet so blind have
mankind hitherto been to these advantages,
that no attempts have been made in any acces
sible region where ex ten five manufactures
could be established, either to cultivate the tree
that produces it, or to induce the natives to
fend tne juice in its fluid state to Eur ope, where
it could be properly manufactured. All that
has been done is, to fuffer the natives to mould
it into the. form of a finall kind of bottles,
which is found to answer some purpose among
themselves ; and these, when brought to Eu
rope, are applied to scarcely any other use than
being cut to pieces for the purpose of effacing
marks made upon paper by a black lead pencil,
or that of idly aniufing children by stretching it
out, and observing how perfectly it again reco
vers it pristine form, after having been distend
ed to agreat length in any direction. We a -
muse ourselves with the phenomenon without
profiting by it, as children uled to be amused
with the attraction of amber, before the pheno
mena of electricity were exolained.
It is now time, that we should begin to make
some use of this very valuable substance, which,
probably, a hundred years hence, will adminis
ter in a variety of ways to the accommodation
of our defendants. With that view, I /hall
here venture to point out a few of the ufeful
purposes it may be made to answer ; not doubt
ing but the invention of men, whenever they
can get the materials in their hands in abun
dance, will discover a variety of other impor
tant purposes it will serve, that have not as
yet been dreamt of.
1 ft- This substance so much resembles lea
ther, that it naturally occurs that it might be
employed for the pnrpofe of making boots.
These would not only admit of being made in
the neatest ftrape that could be imagined, but
aVo, by being impervious to water, or the other
cor ro five liquors above named, would be fu.fi
cient to protest men from wet, though Handing
in water. For feamcn, filhermen and others,
who are by their business obliged to wade in
water, such boots would be of the greatest uti
lityl The feet and legs might thus be protect
ed from the action of even acids or alkaline
substances theinfelves, wheievc-r that fnould
become necelTary.
2d. Clevei of this fubilar.ce would be so foft
and pliable, as to aU»w tise fingers perfect ac
Saturday, August 4, 1792.
lion, and in tjio.e kinds of bufineiies, that re
quire artificers to put their hands among; acids
or corrosive liquors, they may become highiy
convenient.
3d. Caps. Tfee uses that might be made .of
thrir, iukftance for defending tlie head froin wat,
are infinitely v rious, and might piwe highly
beneficial. A thin covering of tliis fiibftance
might made .or travelling hats, which, witli
ou£ adding any ecfble weight, would be per-'
fe&ly impervia! le by wet of any kind. Evjry
other kind of covering for the head, liiirht be
thins rendered water tight, merely by giving
thenf a cout of coutchouc, which would
in no tenable degree alter tlieir other qualities.
Bathing caps in particular, could thus be made
extremalv commodious, and at a fmallexpcnce.
This could be done, by covering with a coat of
coutchouc an elafticflocking cap, which, mere
ly by being pulled tight oVer 'the head, v ould
embrace every part of it all round, so as tc
prevent the entrance of water. The iiocking
and the covering being -equally elastic* they
would contrail and expand together without
any fort of difficulty.
4th. Umbrellas.— of jilt,
materials, cloaks or travelling coats of any
fort, that ihould be judged proper, could thus
be rendered perfectly water tight, without de
ft roving their pliability in the iinalleft degree.
It would only be ncceilaTy to cover them witli
a coat or this foft varnilh after ti»ey were
made, so as to close up the feains. Buckets
too, ajl ofeanvas, or any other cheap substance,
might be made w.ater ti'&fat and incorruptible,
by merely covering them with this matter.
VclTels al.'o for holding water and other liquors,
that would not be liable to breakage, might
thus be made of any size or fiiape at a finall ex
pence. In fliort, it would take too much room
to attempt to enumerate half the uses that!
might be made of it in the houftiold way.
sth In the army and navy, its uses would
be still more numerous and important. Tents
are an article of very great expence : Thecan
vas for them rnuft be of the very best quality
and closest texture ; and ?fter all, they aie sel
dom proof continued fain. At any
rate, the vicifStudes of weather fben rot the
canvas, and make a new supply in a short time
be necciTarv. Were these tents covered with
a coat of this Aibffar ce, the er.t vanc e of rain
through it would not only be altogether preclud
ed, out also, the very wetting of the canvas it
felf would be prevented, and cfcourfe its dura
bility be augmented to a tenfold degree. On
the lame principle, the fails of a lliip would not
only be made to hold the wind in themoft com
plete manner, but by being covered by a thin
coat of it on both fides, the fail cloth itfelf could
never be wetted, and cf course, its durability
be augmented, while its flexibility would not
!be diminilhed. Other uses to which it could be
j applied :n the army and navy, are so numerous,
!as not to admit of being here foecified. It is
only neceiTary barely to mention, that on a mi
litary expedition, to have a velfel capable of
containing fluids, which, when empty, admits
of being wrapped up like a handkerchief and
put into the pocket, might on some occasions
be of inestimable value ; and the fame at sea.
(To be concluded in our next.)
Thejoilovjing Fafquinade on the Abbe Maury, ii
Jaidappeared m Rome.
" ROME is in mourning. O Pius the fixtii,
now that you are loading with favors a m?.n,
whom religion,.learning, and his country equal
ly disavow—deign then to liflcn to Pafquin, and
acknowledge your error. As the organ of pub
lic opinion, I am more infallible than yourfelf
—Born of an obfeure family, Maury had the
baseness to blulh at his origin—educated from
his youth upwards in the arts of intrigue and
hypocriiy, he grew ambitious of the honors of
the academy and the wealth of the church.
According as either was prosperous he courted 1
the atfceiilical Aleinbert or the jefuiticai Beau
mont. He preached up atheifiti and calumni
ated philosophy. Convinced of the w-eaknefs of
his abilities, he removed his rivals from the <a
cred tribunal by the most infamous accusations
In the heat of brutality he has endeavored to
seize by force the favors of unfufpecling beauty
aild ihtiocence, and has been known to alfume
the charactei c! an allajiin to be received as a
lover.—Decorated with literary titles, obtained
by the baled a; oftacy, enriched by the wealth
of a church'he had treated with the blacked in
gi atltnde, it'll his ambition was imlatisfied :
always imitating the serpent, which to raise it-
Jelf, muff creep, he became the defender and"
patron of slavery, and hired out his pen to a
despotic miniiter—this vile supporter of ty
ranny .vas invited by the difaffefled clergy of
France, to intrude himielfamong the represent
atives ol a people who are determined to be
free, &x—Such is the portrait of tile Abbe
Maury—O Pins, we pardon you, your effemi
nate'luxury, y, ur hypocritical pilgrimages,your
insolent profufion and your antichriftian policy
-.but who can, without indignation; fee a ttai
terdus Judas elevated to apostolical dignity,
and the Roman purple disgraced bv a Pope who
•js only delerving of the purple of the jjaUqy
73
ON PRIDE
Ftvi-t Jltti Spy,
u As love of pleasure into pain betray?,
So most grow iniarfious through love 61'pralfe."'
IT is rather whiinfical, if the above
aphorism is true,, that the motive
to action, with tlie means and acquiii
cion, should so generally revei fe each
other. Dilliniftion is tie object of
pride: Infamy its acquisition, when
the means are not selected by virtue,
nor directed by judgment. It is not
difficult to read this truth in common
characters—Those whimlical beings,
who, through poverty, laziness, or
mifanthiopy, get into the habits of
peculiarity in manr.ei s and dress, by
neglecting, or combating the general
opinion and taste of the world, are
not only denied its applauies, but
meet is reproaches anc! contempt ,
i and are no i> herwife did inguifhed,
than by their diitance the wrong way
frera ilie favoui ites ot mankind.—
This is a broad lubjeCt. Perhaps i:
would be easy to trace all the ciiines
that disgrace human nature to tins
one powerful pioj.enfity, the love of
diftindtion. This is the real cause
why one half of the woild is bowed
down, and enslaved by the burden
and tyranny of the other half—why
the lofty towers and the splendid mo
numents of human glory, have- been
reared and decoiaitd in one age, and
broken down and totally fsvept away
in the next. It will e\er be the call ,
while we value no nioic the conlci
oufnefs of merit, than the utu ibuies
of it ftoleii from the woild, by fajfe
appearances and pretences, that true
fame, like the decayed titles of a once
valuable and honorable nobility, xle
'ccnded toa degeneraie progeny, v.ill
depreciate, and lole its original It amp
and principles, in the general plun
der of envy, ambition, accident and
knavery. And (he erior and evil
consequences, in the one cafe, is a
very exaCi referoblance of them in the
other. In both cases, real worth has
as little encouragement to expect, as
it has of motive to obtain, the tiiftinc
tion of mankind. lit a society where
this objetff, lb important to its glory
and faiety, has loft its power to iii
fpire a benevolent, emulative and pa
triotic difpofitioir, the weak and fun
pie members of it have every thing
to apprehend from the cunning and
powerful.
Much has been written, and maiiv
fever* things said, against piide : Yet
it is peihaps as necellary a propensity
as grows out of human nature. Be
cauJe I have wounded my finger with
my knife, 1 do not think pioper to
batter its edge—Neither fhoitld the
moralist, in zealous revenge for the
blood it has spilt, endeavor to eradi
cate pride f'roul the heart. The ob
jrrt to which it is direded, flipuld be
feletfted by real'on, so likewise fliould
the means. And then, like the bieeze
that fills the fail, or the fpurto adull
horse, it adds a flimulator as well as
an impetus to progress and acqui
sition.
FROM THE (Nf.W-YORK) WEEKLY MUSWM.
A CURIOUS FACT
TN the month of June of the present
i- year, a Pea-lien in the Alms-house
garden, set on a number of eggs, but
whenever lhe quitted the iielt, the
Peacock (as their manner is) would
destroy some of them, until at length
flie had left but one. A large hotTfe
cat, which ninth frequented the gar
den, probably having obfei-ved now
matters had lien conducted, now paid
Wore than ordinary attention, and
took it upon her, whenever the hen
left the i.eft, ro take her place, and
Ive spread very broad on the eog, un .
til tie hen returned, when the would
very orderly deliver up her charge id
the natural owner; m d so it was
rhat in the fulinefs of time, their
Syfdii^
[Whole No.
united vigilance and care, produced a
iine Pea-cl)ick. Nowtheeud PufshadL
in view, in this curious proceli of in
cubation, is submitted to Vhe natn
ralill, whither she meant to contri
bute what (lie could towards the pro
duction, or, whether it W3s to guard
the sacred rfepofits from the depreda
tions of the wanton deftrbyer.
P. S. Miss, or more properly (fiuce
fte has a young one) Mistress Puis
and the chicken are ofien seen toge
ther in the garden, while the heifac
a diltance seems apprehensive of no
danger, but happy in the confidence
of the jt ieudly grimalkin.
PARIS, May 2.
'"T"' WO conventional treaties arecotn
-E- mtinicated this day from the mi
nister of foreign affairs to theAffembly,
and are decreed ; the one with prince
Loweinftheim, the other with th&
reigning prince of Salm Salm. These
two treaties, when ratified by the;
National Afleinbly will serve as an
answer to all the hott offlanders witli
which ccrtain powers have affecled
to ltigmatize a great nation, who
have vindicated themselves into free
dom, ami who wish to oppose their
enemies with no other Weapons than
reason and justice.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, May 12.
ON the motion of M. Dumas, it
\\:is decreed, that the formation ot
courts-martial ihould be left to the
Generals who command the different
armies
M. Gaudet made fame severe far
caliic remarks on the conduct of M.
de )n Fayette, and a Iked whether such
a General lhould have the power of
enacting military laws : His remarks,
however, were not produtflive of any
effcdt.
'J lie Mi niftier for the Interior De
partment said, that Paris was full of
toi eignei s ; and that he was preatly
alarmed for the fafetv of the capital,
fufpetfting that some- dark designs
were in agitation, which the preferic
police coulil not discover.— Referred
to the committee of twelve.
Decreed, " That the immense heap
of papers and parchments which re
late to the Nobility, and collected
frc.m vaiious monalteries, &c. and de
polued in the Church des Grands Au
gultins, ill ai 1 be burned."
M. Hi:licy de Robecourt said, oil
the occalion, that the Aflcuibly were
a let of Coths—feu! aujcu! re
funded from all parts of the Hall,
and the conflagration was accordingly
decreed.
M. Carnot,jtin. moved, "That the
regiment of King's Swiss Guards be
110 longer in the King's service, buc
in the service of the Nation ; that the
National Guard of Honor be respon
sible to the Nation for the fnfeiy of
the King's pet son, and not liable to
receive orders from the Officers of the
Guards paid by the King." This
motion was adjourned.
Decreed, ] hat the Commanders in
Chief shall have the privilege of ap
pointing Commandants of uariifons
&c. from among the Captains and Of
ficers of superior rank, who, beside
the emoluments attached to Comman
dants, shall (till receive the pay, as
Officers, according to their rank."
LONDON, May 5.
Remlutiyn in Poland* ' . '
This bfipgttiefirft aiijilvcrfimy
of the peaceful aiul'dignified. Revolu
tion hi Poland, (a Revolution whicift
gave to tliat couuttjr a ne^ t a nobler,
and more fecurc exigence aniong tl\e
Nations) a company.
sixty peifons, dined at thp Mitre-Ta
vern, Miire-Court, Aldgate, in com*
tiiemoratjon of an eveijt which lo hap
pily dempsjitrated the wcreafing.ligiic
and liberality of the age. "TKANKFOIIT, May i.
The Election of the Emperor is
cd for the 4th/of Jnly.
COBLENTZ, May r
* .« *
The at last
vei. the- , anlV>'er> iliac the unt<jrcu
te Princes have waited ior luir.e
:ie—he ?e'!s them, that he is 110*
t chief ot the. Empire, and that iitr
inot difpuie ot any thing, or put
in active ; that as
soon as holtilkits ihall begin, they
(hall be to.
Ma; 6. The Elector of T: eves, by
a formal decree, has ordered ail the
French Emigrants to q-tit hi? EieCfo
rate; and has requelied the Charge
des Affaires of Prance, resident here,
to make his intention known to the
French government —his (edulousde
iire to live on terms of friendibi pand
peace with France, and of his hopes,
that the French nation would not, in
consequence, attack his dominions.
Scj° It was in this ele<Sorate, that
the head quarters ot the French re
fugee Princes and Nobles, was ellab
lifhed.
MADRID, May 6.
A new order of Nobility was the
last: week eftablifhed—lc confifls en
tirely ot Ladies, patronized bv the
Queen, and are styled " Tlie Royal
order of Queen Maria-Louiila."
Count a'Aranda, the Prime Minis
ter, has conciliated the efteein and
confidence of the nation. He endea
vours to ameliorate the fitnatinn of the
numerous victims to the ambition and
hatred of his predecessors. Several
exiles have been recalled. To judge
by exterior marks, our connection
with Francc becomes daily more fa
vorable.
May 8. M. Bourgoing, the new
Ambalfador of France, has been for
mally introduced at this Court, and
his credentials received.
SWITZERLAND.
May The French troops teok
poflelfioii of Parentinethe 29th April,
after the Auitrians had left it. The
people of all degrees welcomed the
arrival of the Freneh, with " Vivt la
nation Francais," ami other expres
sions of friendihip and regard.
BOSTON, July 25
The French papers the Editor lia?
received, give the latest inieiligence
from France, yet arrived. They do
not however (and they are impartial)
contain a word rel'pecting either the
late intended flight of the French
or the miraculous deltru<Sion of
the i 5,000 troops of France, in a thin)
engagement with the Aultrians and
Rulihr.s; which the Englifli papers
hsve been so particular in detailipg—
and which the American papers have
been so faithful in copying. A sum
mary of what they do contain, is—
That the National Alfembly has been
agitated by a suspicion, that there
existed in Paris, a club inimical to
France, the members of which had
access to the Councils of the King,
a..d cjnveyed information of every
nieafure to Foreign Courts, even be
fore they were divulged in France—
Thai the King had addressed the As
fembly on this subject, alluring them,
if such a body did exist, of which he
was doubtful, that he would take the
mod efficacious measures to discover
its members, and to defeat their ma
chinations. At the fame time he cau
tions the AUembly againtt being led]
ioto intemperate measures, by reports
and conjectures spread among them
solely to deceive them. — That a de
cree bad beeu debated for banishing
' from France, all the Clergy, who do
not take the civic oath.—That a cen
sus of the inhabitants of Paris was in
agitation, in order to discover their
occupations, means of fubfifteiiie, and
probable objects —That tbe revolu
tion spirit of the nation had not a
bated, but daily displayed it fell" in
patriotic gifts and public facrifices.—
That the molt effective means appear
to be taking to eftablilh a severe dis
cipline in the armies—toeffedi which.
Gen. Rcchambeau had been prevailed
on, uotwithftandingthe ill ftateofhis
health, to continue his command of
tbe Northern army—and Gen. Luck
ner to return to his command 011 the
Rhine—And that measures were in
train for the mod exemplary punifli
r.ient of tlie murderers of Gen. Dil
lon.—ln Ibort, iKKwitbHandHig the
agitation.and intemperance of« part
pt'jJie nation, which discovers illelt
in uian? base and impolitic
tious, ! here appears a co*l r detf u%to
re! fpirti in the great body
which.mud rife fnperior to every dif
altrous event, and wiiich BHifl Wta
tually ellablifh their glorious Revo-.
i lotion, onih; br-aad and solid basis of;
jdue Equality and Freedom. . '
The Atiignats of France, like the
" Old Conti" of America, is a ther
mometer by which we can judge of
the Hate of the nation. On the 22d
Viav, 100 livres in tilver, commanded
16.3 litres in aflignats—an inconCder
al>le depreciation, conlidering the
then situation of the kingdom.
At the close of the poll lor t he choice
of Directors of the Union Bank, on
Thurldav lalt, it appeared that the
number of votes for each candidate
was as follows :—Jofeph Blake, 1 397 ;
Benjamin Greene, 1348 ; Nathaniel
Feliowes, 1268 ; Samuel Salilbury,
1252 ; Moles Gill, 1244 ; DavidGreene,
1229; Samuel Brown, 1149 ; William
Smith, 1041 ; Samuel Biodget, jun.
1041 ; Perez Morion, 982; Samuel
ISewall, 959; Samuel Phillips, 937;
Bei jamin Atiftin, jun. 924 ; Samuel
D'exrer, jun. 874; John j)erby,
and Oliver Wendell, 636. The 12
firlt having the highell number, were
chcfen.
WORCESTER, July 26.
We have the pleaTure of inform
ing ihe public that the gentlemen
who are now in this town, on the sur
vey of a canal from Connecticut river
to Boston, have discovered a very na
tural and easy communication from
the Connecticut, by Miller's River to
the Nafiiua, and from thence to Laiv
caller. It is sincerely wilhed they
may be as fuccefsful from Lancaller
by this town to Bcfton. Such a wa
ter communication would be as high
ly dignifying to government as it
would be advantageous to the capital
of this commonwealth, to the weilern
counties,and the Hates ot New-Hamp
fhire'and Vermont.
ALBANY, July 26.
The dwelling-house ofa Mr.Broik.
near Johnstown, was lately deftroj;cd
by fire—when three of his children
periihed in the flames, and the wh6le
of his boufe-hold furniture and wear-
ing apparel was consumed.—This ve
ry melancholy affair happened in the
morning, when neither Mr. Brock
nor his wife were at home—she bad
gone about a mile distance to milk
h?r cows, and when she returned the
honfe was nearly consumed.
The dwelling-house and black
fmiih's (hop of Mr. Nathaniel Burr,
alf"o near Johnttown, was likewise
destroyed by fire a short time fiuce,
together with 100 dollars in bank
bills, which he had a few days before
obtained by mortgaging his farm to
the loan office, and all his house-hold
furniture, wearing apparel and work
ing tools, except two or three articles.
bath spring waters
Several chemical experiments liave
been made on these medicinal waters,
'oy different medical gentlemen. They
agree that the waters contain a neu-
'ral fait, which moll probably is the
vitriolic acid combined with an earth.
Further experiment will determine
this point with greater certainty. The
only ingredients used were nitrat
ed fi!ver, nitrated mercury, lime-wa
ter, fixed vegetable and pure volatile
alkalies and nutgalls. Evaporation
and diliillation were had recourse to.
Their operations upon the human
body are undoubted. Generally when
half a pint is taken anaufea is imme
diately excited ; when larger quan
tities are drank, ihey prove laxative
with foine, to others they act as an
emetic, and they generally increase
their appetite.
Upon the whole, the gentlemen
of the faculty conclude that the wa
ters may be of great service in dis
eases originating from a rednndar.cy
of bile,and relaxations of the (lotnach
and bowels being alfi> a molt excel
lent cold bath, they may be advanta
geoufiy used in cases of chronic rlieu
matiftns, and of,general de'oilit".
ALEXANDRIA, (Vir.) July 26.
On Sunday last the following ine.
lancholv accident happened a: the
74
\camp near this torn. Serj.Kr.ECH,
of Capr. Hannah's company, going
through the manual exercile with 2
Corpoial, the la'.ter had chanced to
take up a nntfket which, for a parti
cular purpose, had been left loaded.
When they caine to the fatal words
—Prefcrt —Fir:"—The Corporal
did so, and lodged the contents in
the Serjeant's body—which iuftatitly
pot a period to his exigence !
Serjeant Keech was a young man
of great military prcmife. His zea!
for the service—his correct deport
ment— and exemplary conduit—ren
der his loss a fubjert of general re
gret, both in and out of the company.
His remains were attended by his
brother soldiers, and interred with
such military honors as were in iheir
power. In testimony of thegood de-
Ifert of the deceased, an unusual num
ber of citizens joined in the procefli
on to the burying ground of the
Episcopal Church, vrliere a very ani
mated discourse was delivered by the
Rev. Mr. Page, fiom the following
words:—(t. Corinthians x. 12.) —
" W hcrefbrc let hint thai thinkith he
ftandeth, take heed left k: fall."
BALTIMORE, July 27.
We hear thac Charles Ridgelt,
Esq. of Hampton, in this connty, in
tends offering himfelf a Candidate to
1 eprefent this State in Congress, in the
room of Samuel Sterett, Elq who,
we are aflTured, declines fervi;:g in ike
next Congress.
/ROM THE NAT 10SAL GAZi.HI.
ode.
Kate well—the [oflowing is to be f mi gor fiiJ> as oc
§tijoH m<i\ require.]
SINtE the day we attempted the Nation's
Gazette,
Pompofo's dull printer does nothing but fret;
Now preaching
And screeching,
Then nibbling
And scribbling,
Remarking
And barking,
Repining
And whining.
And ilili in a pet
From rooming till night with the Nation's Gazette.
Instead of whole columns, our page to abuse,
Your readers would rather be treated with news ;
While wars are a-brewing
And kingdoms undoing.
While monarch* are falling
And princesses squalling,
While France is reforming
And Irishmen storm ng —
In a glare of such splendour, what nonsense to fiet
At so humble a thing as—the Nation's Gazette !
"o favours we afc'd from your frierds in the east;
On your w« etched I left them to feall;
many bafc lies you have sent them in print,
That scarcely a roan at our paper will squint :
And now you
With a grunt and a grin.
With the bray of an ass,
And a visage of bras*.
With a quill in your hand, and a lie in your mouth,
To play the fame trick on the men of the south.
Cre'Xation&l Paper, you think, is enough
To flatter and lie, to pallaver and puff;
To preach up in favor of roonarchs and titles.
And garters, and ribbons, to prey on our vitals :
Who knows but our Congress will give it in tee,
And make Mr. Feono the grand patentee !
Then take to your scrapers
Other national papers—
No logue Hi all eo snack*,
Aud (he n EvrsrAf *r-t ax
Shatl be putPd to the flues
A* a rr.eafure mfil wife—
So a spaniel, when raster is angry and kicks it,
Soeaks up to bis {hoe, and fubmiiXively licks it.
July 26.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UK IT ED STATES.
Mr. Fekno,
Icm a lever of Poetry—The Editor of tie S r ot : anal
Gazette has given us \onr in vrrfe —Turr.
about if Jair pia\—l fend >«?» his, ready done to year
hand by a brether Yankee of your'j ; the author of a
faper entitled 44 Echo"—lt has never been frubkjkzd
here—Jt certainly has great merit \ aid Mr. Fre
ncau'i paper tjill prove that at leofi the ji>jl part if
the lafi couplet has criat justice. Pi a* give
the extrafi a piace in your paf>er t a*d awtg
a thousand other j, you r jriend, Ic.notus.
• * O IXBAT, the chi-d ot Clio and o* Trur.<:i;%
O Whoreclsotf verfe«ashereelsoff fpun-yaro.
Sinbat, whose ardrn* foul mistook a fail
For the broad feathers on a Mufc's tail;
Who really tho't the hoatfwa'.ns whillle-tountl
Pegasus whinnying 011 P«rnaSian ground ;
Hu quartet-deck the son» infpirir.g mount,
And cans of grog the pure Caftal'-an fount;
Who held for years the pitch-p-ctic tudder,
Came home from sea, kilj'd death, and wed the
S widow. +
Sinbat, alike well fkill'd in either trade.
To fiulh his vcffrl's or his matter's head :
Smbai, the author, captain, printer, tar,
The news-boy's poet and the dog of war,
THE BLACK-GUARD's PATTERN, and the
grea: man's fool,
The lawning parafi'e, and minion's tool."
* air. Frcr.estv*s te;i:c
■ t S:t a fotm entitled "The Htufe ot X'ght"—
f'J Slh-SAT.
Fer tit CAZETTE tf
| ' *•*. Pehno, - ' -*.
TT
f [ '^|'' g w s&
ken of its wan of rtplicrtarfa tad
*> make the cncomtaacr BWari £
Jtenc*» kb&toTaigtfnitt rfla»
latereAednefs. SucJt-a tw«f Utt
be perjnited to fuceerd. ' It it ""T
the whole trtithihpaldbc IoU, utlwS.jS
Hate of the iAn btwdtaMUgr
Mr. Freaneao before he --IT la "
comiuS the National DmKjm mda|3L
CbiMs anlStnnr, ft iuitlUinfc
io New-Yoik, in the capacity.of editpt or .in.
* •' I *
. A pip CT fnoit &erint&ta the »~*-ir
party, of which Mr. jtlitrft* it- the head, •>-,
any to be lattad tfcwcky «n
nesti was thought a ttr tttftramfaf ;j
wai opened" with t>ni« which tadhf iat'fy"
blifbmentof the Nmmml Gucfle Mfcicr W &-
reSIOO. . . v>- ; *
Mr. Freneau came he?e at once Ed'tor of thr
j National Giieiie, and Clerk foreign languages
i :i the department of Mr. Jefferfon, Secraaiy of
S:ate ; an experimeut fomev hat new io the h:iorv
of political mai aeuvres io this country : A oewU
paper instituted by a public Officer, and iheEotior
of it regularly peuGoucd with the public mooey
n the disposal of that ofneer ; an exaicp.* fa\our
ng not a little of that spirit, which in tbe citu
nrration of European abuses is the continual theme
of declamatory censure ; an example which could
not have been set by the head of any oth:r depart
ment without having loo? fwee run* throughout
'he United States.
Mr. Freneau is no! then »> he -would have {bp.
posed, the independent Edttor of a Ncwfoaoer,
who thoogh receiving a falarv from
has firmnefs enough to expofeits mal-ador.r ftra
::on ; he is tbe faithful and devoted fcrvamof the
read of aj>artv, from whose hands he receives tbe
boon. The whole complexion ol his paper, ex
hibits a decisive internal evidence of ibe ifc&ueoce
of that patronage under which hca£L*.
Whether the ferxiccs rendered by i*im are equi
ilent to the compensation be receives, u odk
knov-n to his employer and himfelf; there is how
t ver fomc room to doubt. !i is well kn wa ttnt
his employer is himfelf well acquainted with the
I- tench language, the only one of which |fr. Fre
neau is the tranlbtor ; and it may be a queaioa
how often his aid is occeffary.
It is foraewhat lingular tcothat a man aequHOt
ed with but one foreign language, engaged in aa
occupation which it max be preftured de;naadshis
a hole time and attention—'he Editor of a nevC
paper—fhould be the person felefted as the Cle»k
foreign languages in the department of tnrc
l'ni;ed Stateslor foreign affairs. Could no perfoa
be found acquainted with more than cnc
language, and who in so confidential a trait cocld
have been rrgo!ai!y attached to, in the confhot
empioy of the deoa»tnje»u ( and immediately ender
t:ie eve of the head of it ?
! But st may be aiked—is it poS'ole that
! I-ffeifon, the head of a principal department of
[the government can be the p_tron of a paper, tbc
! evident objefl of which is to decry thegovernment
and its measures ? If he disapproves of rhe go
vernnnent itfelf and thinks .t def rving of his.cp
pofinori, can he reconcile it to his own persona,
dignity and the principles of probity to hold an
office under it, and employ the me?ns of o£c»al
influence in that oppoGtion ? If he disapproves
the leading meafurts which have been adoptr". :n
the cot:ife of its adminiflration—can he rccoo:. ?
it with the principles of delicacy aad propriety,
to hold a place in that administration, and at :ne
!araf time to be instrumental in *inf\ uj roeaures
which have been adopted by majorities of both
branches of the ar.d j
Ciii(f SLigiflrctc of the Ukicn
Tbefe questions \could certainly be nature.—
Ananfwer might be left to the ..iCii wnich e.u
blifti the relation between the Secretary of St<:e
and the Editor of the National Gazette as ;hetex%
and to the general tenor of that paper aj iae com
mentary. Let any intelligent man iead «hep:pcr
t rora the comniencetr.cnt of :t, an- let him deter
mine for himfelf whether it be no: a p i?c." * :[J
lently hoftilj to the government aud its -nca'jres.
Let him then ask himfelf whether,
connexion which has fnbhtled betweerf theScdC
tarv ot State and the Editor of that pap*' coeval
with its 6rft eftabltfhment, it be probable
tne complexion of the paper :s coutrary to toe
views of that officer*
If he wishes for a confirmation of the :n
which he cannot fail to as a prob-blc ooc t
!et him be informed in anc'ion, . ,
lft, That while the cooihtuiion of the l o-w
States was depending before the peo?:* s
country, Tor their conhderat'.on ard deciiion, . r.
jefftrfoo being m France, was cpuo." to it, "»
some of its moA important anu wro.e
obje6lion«'to ft»me of his frieccs in Vtrg na
T it he at firft went so far as to di!couctt«oces.s
aiont on. though he afterward*
on the ground of expediency in certain
gencie?. , » -i
2d, That he !s the declared opponent ot
al) t! e important meafurcs which ha« be?n *-
vised bv the governsneot: '
orovifion *<hich has brto made for tc ' ,
the inftitutsoo of the Bank. ot t c *•
Stares, and such o-.her racafure* as ™ rc , r ?
public crcd;: and the finances of the J- ® ltf '
It is proper thai theic Saß*ftlould e • »
for ifihe people of the I niied States ei? •
their happinefa and tneir lafety are conn Ct
theexiftence and ir.arjiteaance ot so f'~f*"^ ; : noC
icna! or Federal Government ; it t
ir> think that, v.fcich llity have create , fe
blilhea, worthy of ihcii coohdetwt •> .
•%'ilhng thai the powt'ithev havegia°-
irxould be «?xercifea wr.h foftcient lantnd
tain the ends they had :a »«ev; m craning
to do the essential baliaeis 0 v"C ': 10 f t beir
they .eel an honed pride ;n feeing
country so lately prollraie, e.evate <
Ration with that of wy n*«on u P° n
arc conscious that their "» 0 '®P ort,^. U ca _-.
Ed, by .he mcrrafed refc«&b.h« T °. f J?£££
try. Jihic'h from aa S t>*3 a»d
•/i? to the wiot of govein ntm. .
bliOimect of a wife
which ha« been punuco under«, bcum
<
i.tor the praise and admit* ion ot mankind ; if they
experience" that their own situation is improved
and improving—that commerce and navigation
have advanced, that manufactures are progrcllive,
< hat agriculiute is thriving—that propeity is more
iecure than it was—indultry more certain of a real
not nominal reward —ptrional liberty perfectly
protected—that notwithftaruling the unavoidable
demands upon them to fatisfy the juitice, retrieve
the reputation, and anlwer the exigencies of the
they are either less burthened than they
Svere, or more equal to the buithgn they have to
iuftain. H these are their opinion* and their ex
perience, let them know and understand, that the
fenti merits of the officer who lias been mentioned,
both as to the principles and the practice ot the
cor.ftitution which was framed by them, and ha*
\been administered by their reprefenratives, freely
chosen—are essentially different Itom theirs.
If, on the contrary, the people of the United
"States are of opinion, that they erred in adopting
their present conftuution —tnat it contains perni
cious princioles and dangerous powers—;hat it has
been administered injudiciouil/ and wickedjy—
that men whofc abilities and patriotism-were tried
in the word of times, have entered into a league to;
•deceive, defraud and opprtfs them that thev aie
really oppreflfed and ruined, or in imminent dan
ger of being so. If they think the prcfcrvation ot
national nnion a matter of no or small confequencc
if they are willing to return to thefi'uation from
which they have el'caped, and to strip the govern
ment of some of the most nccetfary powers with
which they have cloathed it— II they are desirous
that those which may be permitted to remain
Should be frittered away by a narrow, timid and
feeble exercise of themr— If they are disposed to lee
the national government transformed into the ske
leton of power —if they are persuaded that nations
are under no ties of moral obligation ihat public
credit is useless, or something worle—that ouWlit
debts may be paid or cancelled at pieafure— that
•when a provj/ion is not likely to oe made for
them, the discontents to be ex pelted from the
omiflion, may honestly be traustered from a go
vernment able to vindicate its rights to the breads
of individuals, who mavfirft be encouraged to be
came the fubOitutes to the original creditors, and
.may afterwards be dfffrauded without danger ■*-—
If to national union, national refpettabikty, pub.ic
order, and public credit, thev art willing to sub
stitute national disunion, national
public di{'order and difcredit —then let them write
their acclamations and plaudits in favor of Mr.
JefFcrfon; let him be the toast ot every political
club, and the theme of every popular huzza—for
to those points, without examining his motives,
do the real or pretended political tenets of that
gentleman most assuredly tend.
These ftri&ures are made from a convi&ion that
it is important to the people to know the charac
ters entrusted with their public affair*.
As Mr. Jefferfon is emulous ol being the head
-of a party, whose politics have ever aimed at de~
prefTmg the national authority, let him enjoy all
the glory and all the advantage of »t. But let it at
ihe fame time be unaerftood by thofr who are per
suaded that the real and permanent welfaie ol the
country is to be promoted by o'her means, that
such are ihe views by wlr.ch he is aftuaicd.
* Such was the advice given to Congress fa Mr. Jef
ferfon, when Miniflar Plenipotentiary to the Court of
F*-ance y refuelling the debt due to the French notion—
The ptedje terms are not recollected, but the Jubjlance
inay be depended upon. The poor Hollanders were to
be the mffims, j
FOR THE GAZETfE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fen no,
YOUR correspondent T. L. in your paper of
the lit mil. should have quoted fairiy and
ingenunufly. a\ man once argued on the fide of
Aiheiftn, becaufc the words, 44 There is no God"
were to be found in the Scnoture, without prefix
ing, The fool hath faiJ in his heart." Instead of
your correspondent's quotation, which ftandsthus,
" Rcce'.vcs a final! stipend for feivices rendered as
French Translator to the deparunent o* State, and
as Editor of a ftee nezvfpaper"—he (hould faiily
have quoted the words as follow, in the National
Gazette of July 28-—" Receives a ftnall stipend
for services Tendered as French Translator to the
department of State, and, as Editor of a fire news
paper, admits into his publication impartial flric
tures on the proceedings of government, &c."—
A man that in quoting another's words, wilfully
curtails or wholly misrepresents the natural con
ftruttion of a sentence, in order to miflcad, will
soon find himfelf beneath the attention of every
candid reader. X. Y.
Philad. August 2, 1 792.
for the GAZETTE of the U MIT ED STATES.
Election of Rtfrefentativcs in Congress.
IN this important business every individual
has a common interest, and the great object
ihould be to unite in exercising the inestimable
right of fuffrage in foch manner as will be most
likely to insure a continuation of the bleflings
we enjoy under an adminillration of the best of
governments.
The happy advantages derived from that in
ftitiition are evident tt> the world, and must be
acknowledged by all ranks of people and by eve
ry member of the society, who will compare the
present fitnation of our country ivith what it
was a few years ago.
It would therefore appear ad vifable, all other
circumstances equal, to endeavor by every law
furmeans to ele& such men as are tlrmly at
tached to the government and to such measures
as have been adopted under it for the support
and advancement of our true interests ; and
not be swayed by the artifices of those who stand
in oppoi-.tion, and who, disclaiming all party
and antifederal principles and views, are ex
erting their influence to have such a representa
tion as, it is feared, would join in bringing a
bout an entire change of mcafurec, and over
turn the whole of the system that is now in ope
ration ; by which means they would open a
new and exteniive field for speculation, and
disturb the peace and quiet of the community
tor the advaatage of a few.
Philadelphia, Aug. 4.
The BritHh Packet for June is arrived at
New-York—letters byiier\Vere received at the
Pofl-Odice in this city, Thuriday evening ; the
packet brings accounts to the yth June.
French papers from Europe to the 6th ■
June, oy Cap t. Harding, iiatc —That through
the exertions of Genera] C. Lameth, order and
discipline were likeiy to be loon restored in the
French army ; and 12 of the guilty of the regi
mentof Colonel-General concerned in the affair
of Mons were already iclectccl for trial.—That
tiie joy of the emigrants at Coblentz 011 the liic
cefs of the Auilrians was exceflive—they were
for marching immediately to the frontiers, per
suaded that every city would operi its gate's to
receive them— t appears they checked their
ardour by a iittie timely reflection.
The National AUembly have decreed that
the grunt of one million a year to each of the
king's brothers be iuppreifed—their creditors
to apply to the National Treasury. A fraall
aifair has happened at Bavey, a body of Amlri
ans of 2300 men and 6 pieces of cannon attack
ed the place on the 17th May ; the Frciicbgar
rilon of 8o men fliewed much courage, and
killed and wounded some of the enemy —but de
viating from the orders given by M. liocham
bcau, they were made prii'oners of war; the
Aultrians kept polfelSon of the town only 2
nours, they then left it carrying away the arms
but withont plundering it, which the foidiers
were very delirous of doing, but were restrain
ed by their oliicers ; the place would probably
have been immediately retaken, as a large de
tachment of the French army was put in 1110-
tion for that purpoJe. Warlike preparations
are carried on with great vigor in Berlin—but
doubts appear to be entertained by the Court of
Vienna, a: to the honelty of the Court of
Pruiiia. The declaration of war has produced
very different,legations, at the Hague—the pa
triots in the seven provinces are laid to be all
in favor of the French—the Stadtholdcr on the
contrary appears desirous to take part in the
war againlt France—but the States will never
consent to it.
Trie papers received by Capt. Harding, are
several days later than thole which furniftied
the materials for the abftraft, from the Centi
nel. No engagement of importance had taken
place in May. In such Jkirmiihcs- as had occur
red, the French troops fliewed discipline arid
courage. Some time fmcean account was pub-
liftied of the defeat of a detachment of M. la
Fayette's army, under the command of M.
Gouvion, on a foraging party, by an inferior
force. That account is far from the truth. It 1
appears that M. Gouvion was attacked by a fu- 1
perior force, but managed a retreat with great
lkill and success, having, notwithstanding the
opposition he experienced, attained the object
of his expedition, with little or no loss.
Mr. Rochambeau, tis said, retires; nothing
however positive and conciufive is publiihed on
this head.
AN AMERICAN.
Nothing said of the death of the Emprefp of
RuiTia.—Under t'.ie Vienna head of May 14,'
we find an account of the death of the Emprels'
Dowager of Germany.
Paris was in a flute of fomefermentation the
latter end of May. Some proceedings on the
exigence of an Austrian committee (which is
yet far from being proved) gave rife to the fer
mentation. No actual disturbance.
Captain Harding, left the
6th of June. American produce at that time j
was low, and there -were pleafmg accounts of;
plentiful crops all over France.
The fliip Phoebe, Capt. Justice, left Lisbon
the 27th June, at which time the Queen was
recovering from her late indisposition. Two
ships of the line, and two frigates were fitting
out, that the Queen, accompanied by Dr. Wil
lis, might, in a short voyage, enjoy the benefit
of the sea air.
Ey the Pittlburgh gazette of 28th ult. we are
informed that the Cornplanter and other chiefs
who met in council at Buffaloe-Creek, have de
termined to fend a message to the lioftile Indi
ans, and have difpatchedCapt. Henry and three
other Indians with it—That Capt. Brady had
made a tour of 30 days into the Indian country
—from some hints thrown out since his return,
it appears that he couid not approach Sandu&y,
nearer than within five miles, as there were a
great number of Indians in the woods near tlut
place.
The result of the several meetings of the ci
tizens at the State House, refpeflling the cha
racters proper to be nominated as members of
Congress, and electors of President and Vice-
Prelident, is the appointment of a Committee
of Correlpondencc to collect information of tie
I'enfe of the people in different parts oftheiftnte
>n this bufinefi—The committee appointedcon
•ft? 'of the following gentlemtn, viz Hon.
Thomas M'Kean, Dr. James Hutchinfon, Hon.
ames WUfon, Alexander I. Dallas, John Bar
lay, Hilary Baker and Jared Ingerfol, Efq'rs.
Ixtraft of a Utter to a gentleman in this City,, dated
J ~l | " o ;
Columbia, Kentucky, June 19.
" The Indians from time to time steal our
horses—l am clearly of opinion frnee the
firft settlement they have ilolen horseS to the
amount of upwards of that is from Co
lumbia alonj and its vicinity.
44 They now and then kill some of our ci
tizens and scalp them, or carry them into a hor
rid captivity. The latter end of April they
killed within 3 miles of Columbia a Mr. James
Nevil, a Lieut, in our militia—a young man of
great worth ; they nearly Ikinned his head all
over in taking of his scalp. The loss of this
valuable member of society was greatly regret
ted, and was a very severe blow to his afflitted
mother, who had but a few months before fol
lowed her husband to the grave ; and was left
with ievcral fmail children, leaning and depend
| ing in a great measure on this her dear for—
I He was brought in agd buried with great.de
75
cency ; the Rsv- John Smith preached a funeral
fermoa on the occasion. A Mr. Ball was killed
or taken prisoner at the fame time ; Ire has not
lince been heard of. A Mr. Orcut who was in
company received two wounds, but got in and
is nearly recovered. About the beginning ol
May 3 men were killed at Diuilap's fiatioii—
and within a few week, two men were killed
on the road between Cincinnati ami Lexington.
Three amballadors are lent to the different In
dian nations, to negotiate a peace,—a Mr. Ge
rard, an inhabitant of Columbia to the Shawa
nefe—Major Trueman to the Delawares —and
Col. Hardin to the Vv iandots(as I am informed.)
"Y/e have as yet no news from them and grow
uneafv on their account.
u The Indians who are prisoner* at Fort-
Wafhingt-on, behave as 1 am told with great
fortitude and propriety ; and are industrious in
their way, when they can get any thing to do,
and seem anxious to procure wampum. The
Ihdiati Queen is well—a week or two ago Ma
jor Trueman alked her acceptance of a guinea,
which ihe Teemed not to know the value of; but
being informed it would procure her io much
she accepted it with becoming grati
tude ; fipce which their greatest artists have
beeu busily employed in making a belt of the most
brilliant kind ; after they had linifhed this, they
took a DodVor Brown who is in the medical de
partment, a man ef great humanity and good
ness of heart, who on all occaiions had sympa
thized with them in their captivity ; and with
all the ceremonies of Royalty crowned him
King of their nation—alter the Coronation the
Queen approached and paid him all that homage
due to his Majesty, her rightful sovereign
after which all the reft in due order approached
and paid their obeisance. They had procured
for him all the Kingly robes in their power, and
drelfed him in the grand belt of wampum they
had made."
In the National Gazette of Wednesday last
it is said, " since the operation of the general
;overnment, leveral branches of the mechanics
and manufacturers, and even the pilots have
cojjibiued to raile their wages on their employ
ers." In the lame paper it is said that the anti
republicans are those who would support the
government upon manufadurcs ; it is also said in
the fame paper that the agricultural interest is
the only true and solid natural basis of the go
vernment of the United States : on all which a
correspondent remarks, that those who affect
to set up one interest in opposition to another,
under a free government, where all have an
6qual right to protection, is equally an enemy
to both. Can either interest flourifli independ
ent of the other ?
It is an old artifice of the enemies of the real
happiness and freedom of our country, to sow
divisions and create jealousies between the agri
cultural or landed interest, and the commercial,
manufacturing and mechanical; but we trust
the people are too wife to be duped by these fel
n(h, partial politicians, or to be thus cheated
out of those substantial blessings which depend
on unanimity alone.
With refpeft to an enhancement of wages,
on the part of the mechanics, &:c. if it Is a
fafr, what does it import but this j that money
is plentier than it has been ; or that there is a
scarcity of hands, or an encreafe in the price of
Tome of the necefFaries of life—to which may
'oe added the rife of rents, occasioned by the in
flux of foreigners, and the great accession to the
number of citizens, drawn hither in consequence
of this being the feat of government ? With ref
peft to the pilots, it is well known that they
have been dilTatislied with their customary fees
for several years; grant however that wages
are raised, what is the natural inference which
candor would deduce from the circumitance ?
It is this, that the influx of money, arifiugfrora
the demand for our produce, the security and
confidence enjoyed under the government,
which has awakened every latent spring of ex
ertion and enterprize in the human mind, have
created an extraordinary demand for the labor
of artizans in almost every branch of business—
particularly in this metropolis—and should this
be the cafe every where, it is but a more exten
rive symptom of this general fa&, that an ex
cess in the circulating medium will uniformly
occasion in a Jru country, an addition to the price
oHabor in every branch j in a free country, I fay;
for it is not the cafe in despotic governments,
where one even tenor of reward, labor and fuf
tenaqce, are apportioned to the agricultural,
mechanic, and manufacturing interests by the
hand of arbitrary power.
tl The blessed advantages of the government is alone
to be found among jpeculators who are living on the
spoils of an injured and infuUcd people, and among a
jew needy citizens who enjoy the profits of lucrative
offices." —See. National Gazette of Wednesday last.
The junta have not explicitly laid in the National
Gazette, that the public debt ought to have been
annihilated ; hut tis well known, fays a correspon
dent, that u was and is their opinion ; that as the
public had the power, they had the right to do it :
fonie ot the enemies of the funding lyftem were
not lo destitute of piinciple—they acknowledged
thejuftice ot the debt ; and it is said, projected
fyftemsof their own on various calculations. It
is however to be remaiked, that none of them,
which lud the semblance of honor lor their lup
port, would have precluded (peculation ; some of
them would have opened a door to this bufine(s
that neither the present, or future generations
would have seen doled ; otheis wete predicated
on a \>afis that would have ground the people to
powder in their execution, and at the fame time
have damned the public credit forever : one of
them propcled to have paid an higher interest than
is now paid on the whole debt, and lo make an
rual grants for that purpose,—Speculation has rea
<oo to lament that this plan was not adopted.
In every stage of the bufintfs, the declaimers a
gaiuft the system which was finally agreed to, have
shewn their incompetency'to manage the finances
of this country. As was early predi&ed,the fund
ing system has brought fpe.ulation nearly to a
close, and in a much Ihoiur period than its mod
fanguinc friends cxpidted. The value oi the debt
in tbe.fnarket is now almost, if not quite as fta
uonary as bills of exchange ; but it [he machina
tions of the new confci vators of our peace, ho
nor and public credit, should prevail, a scene of
[peculation would be openedthat would coufound
the advocates for the dignity of our species. The
people ot this country are too ienfible ot the im
portance of national reputation to luficr so indeli
ble a stigma to be fixed on their character,as would
be theconfequence of annihilating the public debt
by law. The enemies of the funding fyltsm know
this; and therefore, whatever they may pretend
to the contrary, [peculation in a acbt tiiey arc cou*
vinced mull and will t>e paid, is their ol>j< ckiuop-
tiie meaiurco ot the govei nuicnt. IHe vnly
que If ion iheu wnethei tnai fyttem thai ihe *up
ported which has proltrated the power ot fpscul#*
Hon, by giving a fixed and prompt value to the
negociable obligations ol the government—or
whether, by altering or subverting ih»s lyikern, we
Ihall be put afloat iigain on a kd, in winch the
chances are a million to one, conljdering who and
what will be the conductors, thai peace, liberty and
lately, honor, public faith anu credit, will be
wrecked together ? So much lor (peculators.—*
With refpeel to the iJandci on gentlemen in public
offices, it is a lingular combination ol ideas to lay,
ihtii needy perious enjoy the pToJiis ot lucrative
offices.
It is to the honor of the Supreme Executive,
hat worth and abilities, independent ot adventi-
tious circumstances, have been carefully feletted as
!ar as information could be obtained, ior appoint
ments, in all pans of the United Slates. It tome
of them are persons who were lutferei s in the cause
of freedom, and in the general ca'amities which
overwhelmed the countiy previous to the happy
change etfe&ed by the government, others mighc
be mentioned, whose talents would always have
given them the firil rank in their several proieilions,
and fccured them a compttcncy, it not an inde
pendency.-—Such lhi&ures as the quotation are
not abufivc—no-—bv no means— tot they are puu
lilhed in the Nation'& Gazette.
Two Odes received jrom Lor re] pondents, on
\the Ode of Odes—arc Ju per ceded by the extratl in this
\ day's paper.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIWED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Pcnnfylvama, Harding, Havrc-de-Grace
Phoebe, Juliict*, Lisbon
Brig Minerva, Thompson, Cadiz
Catherine, Trammer, Hamburgh
bally, Andeifon, St. Euiljtia
Sloop Hiram, Gorton, Provi deuce
Ranger, Biiliop, Maffachuletts
Polly, Ofler, Jamaica
Capt. AudeiTon brings accounts, that 011 ljth
July , a gale ot wind happened at the Windward
Islands ; it continued 8 hours. That moil of the
veflels at St. Euftatia put to lea. At St. Kitts a
large Ihip, not being able to put to lea, wasdrjven
on lhort, having on board 500 hoglheads of sugar,
which, with tne lhip, were all loft. And that ap
prehensions were entertained ot an hurucane.
The P. nnlylvania, Capt Harding, brought 40
pad'engeri Irom Havrc-de-Grace, to fettle in this
countiy, at Sciota.
The Catherine has 130 German paftengers.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cenu,
Deferred,
hull fharts Bank U. S. 46
shares, 58
Letters by the Britijh Packet mentionj that the En
gH/h 3 per cents had roje to 96' —and that American
stocks had been low, but had lately roJe,jix per cents to
no, and 3per cents to 65 per cent.
The Volunteer Company of Artillery is
delireo to meet at the State House, on Monday
next, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
Augult 3. JEREMIAH FISHER, Captain.
N. £. As there is buftnefs ot importance 10 be
laid before the company,it is ev uc&ed txery mem
ber will attend.
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON, and other
Bookfeliers in Pmladelphia,
AColleaiou of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS; feletted trom diffeieuc
Authors, ana publiihed by Order ot the Con
vention holding the Dodtrme ot the Salvation of
all Men. Met in Philadelphia, May 25, 1791.
Price ot a single book, bound, 3*Bths ot a l)ollaf,
with good allowance to those who take quantities.
August 4,
TO BE SOLD,
(And potfeflion given immediately)
A Valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
containing 213 acres, whereof 4-7 are wood*
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made; the
clcarcd laud is under gaod ifVnce, and is well
adapted tografs,and there being l» much meadgw,
a large stOck may be railed : it is alio natural to
wheat, and a proper attention to a well-kept stock.
will much improve its quality, and be the most
piofitable : it has a young orchard ol 200 apple
trees, a variety of peach and ctieny trees, and >
large garden. Theie are on tbe prrmifet a hand
feme two flory stone house and kitchen, and aa
elegant piazza ; also, a good barn, with stabling,
cow-house, grauaty, waggon-houle, work-fbop,
and fraoak-houle. The liiuation is high, pleasant,'
and healthy, and affords forue very agreeable pro
fpefls, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the main road to New-York, about a mile and a
half from Princeton, New-jcrfey, and 43 fron*
this city. The title was examined and approved'
byemintnt council before thelublcriber purchased.
For further particulars apply to the fubCciiber, at
No. 141, South Sccond-ftreet, or at No. 81, South
Water-facet, Philadelphia. , '
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
N. B. Stock for the firm may be.ha 4 o* ihc prc
fcnt tenant.
Alto, to be Sold, tind'enterrd immediately,
A twoiftory Br.ck HOUSE and BAKE-HOUSE,
;in Arih-ftrect', itfo; 23, i6.eetiw<>ihchis inirout,
[and 102 feet in depth. Apply as above,
July 17.
e IJ'6
12J*
»3J6
per cent. prein.
(cptf.)
( £ P'OBanker theUnltedStates.
RESOLVED,
THAT an Orflc-e of JViicount and Oepofit, lit
tftabliliied in the Cny of Richmond, S;aieo!
V irgmia.
RESOLVS.D,
Ti-.a- t' jd T>u frif.y Si p• : . x >."r next Vc np
tointed for tlie Election ot Thirteen Dije&ors and
a Cashier, for the Office ol Diicuunt and Dfpoiit,
;;i the City ot Richmond.
By Order of the President and Directors,
JOHN' KKAN, Cattiier.
Certificates Loft.
A vTISSINC, Five Afca- jerfo Ctrijicaies,
1 by Si/as Couditf, *ir.
No. 740 for £\ 73 o o
1978 JI f 9
7 t - 100
348.1 i 6
82c) O 12 9
The fubfcribcr luppofes the above Certificates
arc flolen. Whoever will discover the Thief, 01
Certificates, and leave information at the T
or Loan-Ofßce in New-Jersey, or in the Cauoty
Colleftor'i Orßce -it Moms-To*n, lhall be hand
lomeiy rewarded by
MoniS'Toivn, JOSEPH LEWIS.
New- ferfey, july 12,1792. (i ay 7 w)
Ebenezer Hazard,
STO CII-RROKEK,
HAS Removed OFFICE to N.o. 1-28 north
Second-Street, vvlieie he continues to purchale
and fell on Comquflian, Certificates of debt of the
United, and Individual States, Bank Stock, Canal,
and Turnpike Shares, &c. &c.
(Jdt* Su.brcrib.ers to the yriiverfal Tontine who
have not yet received their Certificate* arc deiircd
to call for tkem.
July xB.
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Grczt Dock-Ureet, New-York,
THE Subfciibcr intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to ofTer
his services to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to far
vor him with their business, may depend upon
having it tranfa&ed with the utmoll fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other
part of the United States will be ftri6ll v attend
td to.
LEON'ARD BI.EECKER.
(t.1.)
Mi jv 2,
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY
PiOMAS JAMES, WAX CHANDLER,
from London, refpeftfnlly informs the pubitc
that he has eilablilhed a Mnnufaffory of the abovq
branch, at the upper end of Mulberry-Street,New-
Y • ik, where Merchants, Captains of Vessels,
Drugg i its, and Families, may be supplied with
excellent and pure White W« Candles, White
fapcrs, Wa-t'd Lamp Wieks,
Flambeaux, &c. warranted equal to any made in
London, and twenty per cent, cheaper.
Orders m this and the adjacent States, receiv'cri
by Mr. J9.HN Goojdeve, Bridge-Street, M
William Frobishf.r, Fletcher-Street, and at
the Manufattorv, where famp|es may be Teen.
N B. Bees-Wax taken in payment, or bleachcd
on moderate terms.
New-Yotk, Jul/ ig, 1792,
WAN.TED, to go to.Boston,
X JOURNE.YxMAN COPPERSMITH, at
X 1. small work, such as Tea-Kettles, Coffec-
EfftMy:. —Good wages and constant employment
given to a pcrfon with good lecomn.enHa
man,would be preferred. Enquire
or the Editor.
J ul K 26
NEW TEA S.
IMPERIAL,HYSON& SOUCHONG
Of .he very Fnft quality, a„d la,eft importation
irom Canton, via New-York, by retail, at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Street!.
'T'HE Partoerlhtpof HAZARD & ADDOMS
X isdlllolvedj-All perfom having demands
on th.t FIRM, are desired to call f„ r
upon EBENEZER HAZARD, at No. 12 g, North
Second-Street-and those indebted to it are re
quelled to make immediate payment to him.
EBiNEZER HAZARD,
Pi 7 iui- - , JONAS ADDOMS.
Philadelphia, July 10, 1792. / |fl
American Lead Manufactory
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVEjuft now opened their Lead-Ware
house, two doors Couth of Walnu;-ftreel
v«n?rf,adjoin,agtheir New Faflory-where thev
*ve now made, a ,,d rrad lur £ ]f . < h '»
MRLIAD th° T of , a "/ z "' wilh SHEIT Ind
AAK LtAD, the production of the Mir.es in
Vjrjima. As they have employed a number of
ttpcri.-need Engl,ih workmen/.hey w a , rlnt
P beiqual .m quality to any manufactured in
tarcdu " dpri " from the c °» or
a-Jdes' a f° H ". n,in «;°-^ufaau r e all <h, ab ovc
awicies at Richmond, in Virgin,a. All order,
bllhl If n CUhe - ° f ,he abovc will
rece.vcd.aod executed on the (hort-
Men, th^fai'd^vr" du " r ' ° u *' Labouring
. ■ , N,lnc V where constant cmolov
*f' ° thtr cnc P u ™S cmcn ts will be
A« F s ° T r , fUr i h ?. r,,articular " n< i uircofMe "''- s . Moses
c °- at ,hcir in.Rich.on,.,;:;
Fnilatlclpkia, December 3,1 ; 91 . tf
T H E
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
July 10, 1792.
From September 1774, 10 March 1789; —
An auVh niic jhkl oiiginal colWttiou of
OFlfieiAL LETTERS, &c.
seciu;t journals.
(For particulars, fie iiupijuli ai (urge.)
Suhfcript'.otis are receiveu by the principal
flqojktellers, by iht Kciit^r,
JpHN 26, Pi'dT-Strtct, Philadelphia.
, JUST /iJ iI.L 1$ Htfiy
By Thomas Dobfon,
Boulvtciicf, «n liic $Lum-ir;i.ou(r., uv Sccaafi.Str©«j^
f'h: i,r , e phia, '
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
Or 3 Dictionary o. Arts, Sciences,
and Mif'eellaiic» > Literature,
On a plan entirely new : By witch the different
fc enct s r d . s 2rc !: d jnto the form
Of dip in ft Tr:fzs or Syjiems.
T"' s fixm vi* >.11 1 ' . ~ arwong a vaiiety of
rll ci; s,
Dioptncsjdiu;,!. ' \ in..; t>i ll,art of drawing,
Dub I u an of. Dying, theory of ihe t.. rth and earth
quakes, Edinburgh, education,"history of Egypt,
dyil&m pt elect: icuv, hiltory ol engrav
:ug, eilayiu#, ot t.hiop'a, &c. &c. &c.
LduJlj aled. with twenty-tao copper plates. j
I. The work is printing on a fuperfinc paper, and
new types (ca.t lor the purpose in Philadelphia)!
which wi 1 be occasionally renewed befoie the)
contra-cla worn appearance.
I. :1 ■: y.o.rk may be had in volumes or h^/f-volumes;
ii b in; propo/ird to deliver the volumes in
pa'(Sj at twenty lhi'lingi(P nnfylvania currency}
each, in boaidi, or ior the whole volume, fiu
dollars, in boards. The volumes now fimfticd
aic to be oaid for on the price ot on«
vo.ume is to be Daid in advance, and the piice,
of each iucceeding volume »o be paid on de
livering the volume preceding it.
111. In the courfeof publication will be exhibit
ed above five hundred copper plates, elegantly
engraved in Philadelphia ; which by far exceed*
in nuinbtr in any other fcientißc
di&ionary. At the close of the. publication will
be delivered, an elegant frontifpiece, the dedi
cation, pieface, and proper title pages for the
different volumes.
(ep.tf)
%* As the very great ex pence attending the
unrlertaking, makes pun&uaJit) of payment in
difpeniably ijgceffary, the publisher flatters- bim-
I'elf that the fub!cr;bers will be perfedly farisfi d
with h: s adhering ttri&ly to his original plan o|:
de I» v4.'i ing the books only on receiving payment,
agreeable othe conditions of publication.
Subscriptions Jor the Encyclopedia,
Will coptmye (o be received on the lame terms as
usua l , till the full of September, 1792, when the
price will l.e encreafed. Tf.k Dollars to be
paid <>n ful.fcripiiou, by ihofe who have not sub-
Icnbtd before that time.
Thole who have fubferib d, but not fallen their
books before that time, will be confidercd as no:
having fubferibed.
As Ihe fubfcripiion will probably be closed bi
Cnri(tni3s, such <is chufe lo be pofleflors of lb
very valuable and important work, will do wel
to come forward in time, that thev may not b.
d'Mrpomtc.-i. J„l v f
[<p 7 w]
TERRITORY ok COLUMBIA
P r T June 28. 1792.
v RSUANT to the last Will and Teftamcnt ol
Ihe late Rev. Al exand e r Wi lli am son,
dcceafcd, will lie cxpofed to Public Sale onThuii.
day, the nth ot Odtober next, at Geohgetow n
on a credit of three years, the purchafen givin '
bond Willi approved feenrity, to bear interest Iron
the date—l hat valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo.
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwellint
plantation of the dtceafrd, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatcft part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa .
t' red, and capable of affording a very confidcrablr
quantity ct fine meadow Situated about 6 milr
liom thet« deral City,and the fame d ift,nce from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy part of the country.
1 tie Improvements aie, a very elegant two (lory
~ veiling House, (with four rooms and a
ullage, or entry, o:. a floo.) and the necessary out
tioufes. HENRY TOWNSEND,)
BEN J. STODDERT, ( Executors
(epiQ) THOMAS iOHMS \
[ep 3 w]
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
Tin.r if .. _ JULY 6, ! 7Q2.
hJtkr u'f "J" Sa,C, a M'H-St-at on
Rock Cieek, deemed by those no have ex-
M n H™,r qu 'K an , v ,n thc Unucd s,at "- Th,
;< "-H. use may be placed within one quarter o'
a mile ut the rivet Potowmac, half m,]e fro,,,
fl»n ,I'o n in . Gror g«o*n I .and one m.lr
in non " j ' > fqua.e, in the city of Wa(h.
irvon-on "de navigable for veil",. Is „f fe.
ruffi .en .t' bu!hdS h " r,h ">—The ilream is
lufficient the year round,to turn four pal, „f ft Olies
nd the (all may be made from , 5 ,o 30 feet I
;vr a :^ arytodwciionth - d -4e» <. f to,
Ihe purchaser may be acrommodated with-1
( e P3 m MJul)
George-Town.
A Num t"fr L ? rs in every r, which
be desired in Pim tnr
will he offered for fair bv the C A, " ,NCTON .
Monday lhe Bth dav of ohotr ,°T' ol" r"' °K
fhre 0f ,he to be paid down.'.he refidu"' t
-
JOHN M'G A NTT, Clerk
10 'he Coinnliffinncrj.
[eptlj
June a,
To U pullijhcd bj Sufjiriplion,
O«,PROCEEDINGS OP TMI "
Old C-on^rejZ),
wriuen during the lai.f war;
extract's the
VU L U 1 .. Vf o?
C 'XN IXI T 1 ON S
B. STODDERT.
76
New-Brunfwick Lottery.
HIGHEST PRIZE, 2,000 DOLLARS.
HHHE Public are hereby informed, that the
i drawing of ilie abpye Lottery is poiiponcd
nil the third day of September ne?tt —.a which
time, the Managers are pofuively determined Ihe
drawing fho 11 commence, in Mr. Norman's Long
Room, in ihe City til New-Brunfwiek.
Tickets are to be had at Samuei Cooper's
Ferry, where fortunate adventurers may receive
iheir pi ize-money ten dtys after drawing. A lift
*»f fortunate numbers will be pnblifbed in the
Gazette of the United States.
$3" Cucumftances unforeleen, and unfavorable
10 Lotteries, have pecafioned the ncceflitv of this
furOv r poiiponement. T'(ic Re&or and Wardens
ask tfye of their cpt (copal and other
friends, in supplying theinlclvcs with Tickets pre-1
v oys to the above day—ronfuWut that no Loiury
more favorable to adventuieis has hern tp
he public;—the dfd.y£kion bemg only per
cent, and not ivyo blanks to a prize.
THE MANAGERS.
* # * Letters directed to Peter Keen on,
Poft-M«iftcr, Ne w-Brunfwick (po(l paid) will L»e
immediately attended to.
New-BrunTwick, July 25, 1792
SECURITIES.
SOLDIERS, Mariners, «nnd militia m,eo's pay
lands, and claims on the public,
611 ARES,in the Banks, in the Canals,and Turn,
pike Road,
CERTIFICATES, granted by the public, and
ihe old and late paper monies,
NOTES of hand, bills, bonds, and mortgages
with or without depoiits,
BOUGHT, Cold, or negotiated, at No. 2, in
Fourth-lbect below Ma:ket-flrect, by
FRANCIS WHITE,
Who trajofa&s bufincfs in the public offices for
country people and others, by virtue of a power,
of ai:o-uey, or bv perianal application
PHILADELPHIA,
GENERAL POST-OFEICE,
Ph l 1. AD* LPHI A, Jutv 7, 1792.
F>R the information of Merchants and ihe Mi.f
icrs or Commandos ofvi ireli, are publidicd
t!ic following extracts from the Law lor <-flah 1 ifh_
ng Polt-Officcsand Poft.Roa.ds within the United
States.
I In fe&iou 10, it is ena&ed that there (hall he
chaigrd for tverv letter or packet brought into
'he United States, or carried from one port there
in toao.Oiher by lea, in any private fl>ip or vefTt 1,
four cents, if delivered at the place where the fame
shall a,nivef and if dtrc;£}ed to be delivered *t afly
other p'ace, with the add't.io of the like pottage,
|as other letters are made fubjett to the payment 1
of by this ast,"
In (edlio# 12, " That no ship or vefi;;], arriving
-t any port wit.hin the United Slates, where a poii
ollice is shall be permit;ed to report,
ei/try or bre-jk bulk, till the maflcr or com
mander shall hrfve delivered to the poitmafter, ajJ,
letters diretted to any pcrfon or performs within,
he United States, which, under his care or wji-hin
ms power, (hall be brought in such (hip or vtft.l,
>ther t an such as are dn<6fed to the owner 01
onfignee : but when a vefTel shall be bound
notiier port, than that, at which she may enter, tt)«'
letters belonging to, or to be delivered at the (aid
port of delivery > (hall not be delivered to the o o ffc_
-nailer at the port of entry. And it shall be the
duty of the colleflor or other officer of the port,
empowered to receive entries of fhijrs or vcffels
ro require from every mailer or comm,nd< r of
luch th ip or vellel, an oath or affi, matior,, put port
ing tnat he has delivered all such letters, except as
lforelaid.!' ' 5
In fcflion t 3 , « That the poftmafUr to whom
i " c !j 'ctteia may be delivered, (hill pay to ,h c
matter, commander, or other pclno delivering
mc - the commanders of foreign par.!;'!
ecs, two centss!or every such letter or packet; and
fnad. obtain from the perron delivering ih.; fame,
a certficatc fpccifying the number of letiers and]
■ nackc-ts, with the name of the (hip or vcili I, |
and the place from whence the la ft failed ; wh'ch!
-nfkate, together with a receipt for the mo„ y.|
to 11 r'Vft »" accounts, tranfmittcd
to the Poftmafter-Gcneral, who (hall credo ihe
amount thereof to the pollma'kr forwarding the
' * me." °
I; \ njonnatm, the . 4 th feflinn is nub.
I.toed, '• And be ,t further en,£ied, That if 'any
person, other than.the P,.(l n „ft w .Grner,t, „ r hl .
deputies or persons by them employed, shall take
"P. receive, order, difpa.ch, cor.vev! ca'rry or d*!i
iver any lettt, or letters, packet or packets, other
newspapers, for hire or reward, or IV,!1 be
concerned m fating up any foot or ho.fe post
«-3SOi. or other carnage, by „ r i n whil „ any le,
ter or packet (hall be cried for lure, on any ..ft,.
..'J bo'al '° f a " V pack "' or ° :lwr vfiW;
boat, or any conveyance whoever, whereby the
e,enue of the general poll-orfice may be injured
;my person, f„ offend,ng, Ihal! forfeit, for every!
Provided" tV n ,° f lwo dollars.
rv Derfon'i r u ' na> ' hc ' 2wtul for cvc '
fcng" ">r packets by special mcf-
JI'ST PUBLISHED.
AND TO BE SOLD (p kI c E l'O^)
By EBENEZER HAZARD,
128 North Sccond-Sircet,
the
history
O F
New-Hampshire,
r . . Vol. in.
__ Uoniamme a geographical dcfcription of (he
aC t , no etch ' sot " s " atural £«""•, P -
::rn;;; d orcfc " t state °' f °-
' lies, |«WS ~„d ; ,„ fr n mr ,„ t
~-5- J"»»' BiusAf, A.M.
r„; con,p s c T?- lh ; hi "" rv - ami ! >
■° fnr tho.r Uot"~ Sub!Cr ' bcIS are de «~d
A tar't v E f iolu Ev THE tD1IO «>
A 111- r I [ r ? c - cu ' ! "S a "d paying Gold a t
of Gold. rtr '' afCCrUlnl^t h^t a ° Q r da,d ind h V'atut
800 K <
-x *
/
PR I Iv r I j A X O ..OLD BY
M A 'i 11 £ VV CAR£Y
No. ii 8, Market-Street, Philadelphia '
A MERICANML:SEUM,t,o, nttscolnrapnct
/ \ inent m January 1787, to December
lin ten voir. Puce, neatly bound and I u 1'
iixteen dollar.. " d lnt( - rc d,
This work, which is now conduced on an , m
prov d plan, containing the belt p,ccc s puW.lhTj
far and against the proceeding, u ; eovtl , 1
will be ton mi lo contain at lead as great
of political, agricultural, and raHiellaneou.
as any ever puhliihed in America, P, ,h „ '
one work are lo many valuable docum mZ f "I"
nig the h,koiy ol this country; coUeStd tumii, ,
! Exccllency the P,el,de„,of the U,„ !r£ Sm (1 '
hw declared of ... that " a more ufclul
plan has never been undertaken in A i,cr„ , nor
T| e T'Jr of P ub '' c cncnrr.ptnicu, »
Ihe liibfcrtptien is two dolbrs and a |~|l '
am. Gentle,iien in the country wh, will,' t0
lit- fupplted with this work, are requdlid to m ,
can.rniiliun to blends in the citv to lubfcn3e",or
and receive Any of tke back nua.bcu
fr.ay be had in order to complete fei's.
2. Ladies' Pocket I.ihraty, cou'tauu,. Miss
More s Eoays, Giegory's Legacy, Lady Ptum.w
10ns Advice, Karchionefs ol Lambeit's Adv..r.
SwiO's Letter to a uewly married Lady, Mis. Cr.a
pune on eotnm.md ot Temper, Muie'a I'abka i U r
the Ladies. Price 6/6.
3. Smith's Hiltory of New-York, fromits
lettlement to the year 1733. To which is am,o..
Ed, a (kfcription of the country, wuh a (Hon
account of the inhabitants, their reli S ious mm
political date, and the conftitutian of the courts
o) justice. Price a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat,
tie, l. l d. profefior or moral phiinfopliy and
logic in the Marifchai College, Aberdeen Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Ot ibis book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fav : "We
have ken nothing no tbefc fubjetts nm plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful." 1
N. E. It is introduced into the UuivcFfiiy in Phi-
I&delphia.
(cpis)
(l»W'€w)
•5 Be»uti«ff Potiry, Britift mi American,
con Laming feleS prodiiQioas of the mud'etaum*
Bniifh iod Aiwtncan poets—Bnce hjui-&Uu of
* doiiar. '
6. Bioir's Sermons,containing tho wliolc of :-he
three volumes of the BritlUi cdilion, in dvu
Price two dollars.
7. N cker's freatife on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.— Price four-fifth* of a dollar.
8. Examination of the Obfrrvarions
Sheffield on American Commerce—Prices on very
fine paper, 5 B:hs of a dollar.
9- The Conlkuu: ions of the several Uhite<tSmes,
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Pnco five
eighths of a dol'ar.
10. M'Fmgal, an epic poem, » new edition in
I2m».— Price three-eighths of a dollar.
j ts. American Jdt Book, in two parts-, with
[ tvo very neat engravings-—Price bound, three
fifths of a dollar.
12, Garden of the Soul, by Bilhop Chilenor—
Price, hound in calf, and lettered, three cjuaritu
of a dx>'rlar—plain, a dollar.
'3. The Dovvdv Translation of the Vulgate bi
bl' 1 , in quarto—Price, eie-gamly bound audJtue**
SC/2—plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecura— Pricc a
quarter dollar.
15. 1 hink well on't, or refl flions for every
day of the month.—Price a quarter dollar.
Is. Christian Economy, tran dated' from a
Greek, manuscript, found in the iflanclof Paimoa
where Sr. John wrote the ApocaJypfe— prices*
fifth of a dollar.
17. Hulory of Charles Grandifon, abridged—
Pricc a sixth of a dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a ih rd
of a dollar.
19. Select Poems, chiefly American-.-P;icea
ftxth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a Jarge aflbrtment of
Book?, European as wtl) 2s Amcrscan editions,
which he will difpole of on the molt leafonablc
Terms. Country gentlemen, wlio (avor him with
commands, mjy depend upon berng supplied in
the most fatisfactory manmr. A liberal allowance
to such as purchrifc quantities for public libraries,
or to fell again.
Wm. CLELAND,
BOSTON,
Tranfa'fh buiinefs in the Funds of the United
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &c*
03" Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attem'ed
with Diligence and Punctuality.
June 1
RUN AWAY from the febferiber, living in
Kcm County, and State of Marviaud, on
Sunday the anb May last, a NEGRO M A Ny
named Hark 7 aoout 4a years of age, about five
feet nine inches high, has a fear over one of In*
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs his head oit
one fide, and looks up—had on and took with
him the following cloaths, viz. a fearnought coat,
a black and white kersey coal, cut round, a white
kerfev jacket and breeches, two pair of yarn flock
ing*, thfftme pair lately footed, and the o.'ber
two oznaburgh shirts. each pieced on one fioe,
two pair of tow-linen trowfers, one parr patched
with new tow-linen down the fore parts, and an
oJd/elt hat.
Whoever takes up fair! tfepro", if out of rhift
Slate.and feeures him in gaol, shall receive yO^R
-1 6£N DOLLARS reward—and if'tafcfri within
this State, and fecuced as aforefaid, ihall receive
EIGHT DOLLARS reward ; and if brought
ho-mtf, reasonable expences will be paid by
PEREGRINE LETHRBURV.
Ch'fter-Towtif June 4, 1791. (ep Bw J
WANT ED-TO RENT,
fps" A convenient House, in or near' the centrecf
the City.—Enquire of the Editor.
f£T The JOURNAL of the TIHJW SJD6SJO*
of Phe SENATE of the UNITED h
hadoj the Editor hcrcej.
/ *5
*3
'■» ■.
States;
(epim & \aiwzm)