A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS ANJ) SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 114, of Vol. lII.]
LAWS OF THE UNION.
SECOND CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun a«d held at the city of Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
fylvfcnia, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT for regulating Processes in the Courts
of the United States, and providing Cpmpenfa
tions for the Officers of the said Courts, and
for Jurors and Witnesses.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America, in Congress assembled, That
all wriis and processes issuing from the supreme or a circuit court,
shall bear test of ihe chief justice of the supreme court (or if that
office (hall be vacant) of the associate justice next in precedence ;
and all writs and processes issuing from a diftrift court, Ihall bear
test of the judge of such court (or if that office shall be vacant) of
the clerk thereof, which said writs and processes shall be under
the seal of the court from whence they issue, and signed by the
clerk thereof. The seals (hall be provided at the expense of the
United States.
And be it further enacted, That the forms of writs, executions
and other process, except their stile and the forms and modes of
proceeding in suits in thofc of common law shall be the lame as
are now used in the said courts refpeftivciv in pursuance of the
ast, entitled, " An ad to regulate processes in the courts of the
United States." in thole of equity and in those of admiralty and
maritime jurifdiftion according to the principles, rules and usages
which be long to courts of equity and to courts of admiralty ref
peftively, as contra diftinguilhed from courts of common law ;
except so far as may have been provided for by the ast to esta
blish the judicial courts of the United States, fubjeft however to
such alterations and additions as the said courts refpeftively. shall
in their discretion deem expedient, or lo such regulations as the
supreme court of the United Slates shall think proper from time
to time by rule to prefctibe to any circuit or diftrift court con
cerning the fame : Provided, That on judgments in any of the
cases aforeiaid where different kinds of executions are ifluable in
fuceeffion, a capias ad Jatisfaciendum being one, the plaintiff shall
have his election to takeout a capias ad JaiisJacttnduin in the fiiit
instance.
And be it further enacted, That from and after the parting this
ast, the fees and compensations to the several officers and other
pei foils hereafter mentioned, shall be as follows ; that is to fay,
to the marshals of the several diftrifts of the United States, for the
service of any writ, warrant, attachment or process in chancery,
on each person named in the fame two dollars : for his travel out
in serving each writ, warrant, attachment or process aforeiaid five
cents per mile, to be computed from the place of service to the
court where the writ or process shall be returned ; and if more
persons than one are named therein, the travel shall be compu
ted from the court to the place of service which is mod remote,
adding thereto the extra travel ncceffary to serve it on the other :
Provided, That the fee for travel where there is one person named
in fnch writ, warrant, attachment or process, shall in no cafe ex
ceed seven dollars, and when there are more than one the fee for
extra travel shall not exceed one dollar above seven dallars for
each person. For each bail bond, fifty cents: for felling goods
and vessels condemned, and receiving and paying the money three
per cent : for every commitment or discharge of a prisoner, filty
cents: for summoning witnesses, where he does it, each thirty
cents : for summoning a grand or petit jury, each three dollars :
Provided, That in iholeftates where jurors by the laws of the
State are drawn by constables or other officers or corporate towns
or places by lot, the marshals fha'l receive for the use of such con
stables or officers the fees allowed for summoning juries : For
attending the supreme, circuit or diftrift courts five dollars per
day, and at the rate of ten cents per mile for his expenses and !
time for travelling from the place of his abode to either of the laid
courts: for levying an execution, and for all other services not
herein enumerated, such fees or compensation as are allowed in
the supreme court of the State where the services shall be render
ed : To the clerk of the supreme court of the United Slates, ten
dollars per day tor his attendance in court, and for his other ser
vices in ditcharging the duties of his oflice, double the fees of the
clerk of the supreme court of that State in which the supreme
court of the United States shall be holdcn. To the clerk of the
diftrift and circuit courts such fees in each Slate refpeftively as
are allowed in the supreme courts of the fame ; and five dollars
per day for his attendance on any circuit or diftrift court, and at
the rate of ten cents per mile for his expenses and time in travell
ing from the place of his abode to either of the said courts. And
in cafe any clerk of a court of the United Slates shall in discharg
ing the duties of his oflice perform any kind of service which is
not performed by the clerks of the courts of the State, and so:
which the laws of the State make no allowance, the court in
which such service shall be rendered may allow a reasonable com
pensation therefor. To each grand and petit juror fitty cen;s per
day for attending in court, and for travelling at the rate of five
cents per every mile from their relpeftive places of abode to the
place where the court is held, and the like allowance for return
ing : To witnesses summoned in any of the courts of the United
States the fame compeufatiorrs in each State rdpeftively as aie al
lowed in the supreme courts of the fame : To the attorney of the
United States :or the diftrift, such fees in each State refpeftively as
are allowed in the supreme courts of the fame, and also the like
compensation for travelling as is above allowed to the clerk of the
diftrift and circuit courts.
And be it further ena&ed, That the marChal shall have the cus
tody of all vessels and goods seized by any officer of the revenue,
and shall be allowed such compensation therefor as the courts
may juifge rtafonable : And there shall be paid to the marshal
the amount of the expense for fuel, candles, and other .rcafonable
contingencies that may accrue in holding the courts within his
diftrift, and providing the books necessary to record the proceed
ings thereof : and such amouut, as alio the compensations afore
faid so the grand and petit jurors.—To the witr.elTes summoned
on the part of the United States, to the clerk of the supreme court
for his attendance—to the clerks of the diftritt and circuit courts
for their tiavelltng and attendance—to the attorney of the diftri6l
for travelling to court—to the marshal for his attendance at couit;
for fummomng grand and petit jurors znd witnefles in behalf of
any prisoner to be tried for a capital offence ; for the maintenance
of prison rs confiiicd in gaol for any criminal offence, and for the
commitment or difchargeof such prisoner—and also the legal fees
Wednesday, May 50, 1792.
of the clerk, attorney and marshal, in criminal prosecutions, shall
be included in the account of the marshal ; and the fame having
been examined and certified by the court or one of the judges ol
it in which the service shall have been rendered, Ihall be pafled in
the usual manner at aud the amonnt thereof paid out of the trea
sury of the United States, to the marshal, and by him shall be paid
over to the persons entitled to the fame, and the mai fhal be allow
two and a half per cent, on the amount by him so paid over to be
charged in his future account.
And be it further enacted, That in every prosecution for any
fine or forfeiture incurred under any statutes ot the United States,
if judgment is rendered against the defendant he shall be fubjeft
to the payment of costs—and on every conviction for any othei
offence not capital the court may in their difcietion award tnat
the defendant shall pay the costs of prosecution—And if any in
former or plaintiff on a penal ftat,ute to whose benefit the penalty
or any part thereof it recovered is directed by law to accriie shall
discontinue his suit or prosecution or shall be non suit in the fame,
or if upon trial a verdict shall pass for the defendant the court
shall award to the defendant his costs, unless such informer or
plaintiff be an officer of the United States specially authorifid to
commence such prosecution, and the court before whom the action
cr information shall be tried, shall at the trial in open court, cer
tify upon record, that there was reasonable cause for commencing
the fame) in which cafe no costs shall be adjudged to the defend
ant. * „ .
And be it further enacted, That the fees and compensations to
the several officers and persons herein before mentioned, other
than those which are above dire&ed to be paid out of the trealury
of the United States, shall be recovered in like manner as the tees
cf the officers of the dates refpeftively for like services are reco
vered
And be it further ena&ed, That if any officer herein before
mentioned, or his deputy, (hall by reason and colour of his office
wilfully and corruptly demand and receive any greater fees than
those allowed by this a6fc, he shall on conviftiou thereof in any
court of the United States, forfeit and pay a fine not exceeding
five hundred dollars, or be impriloned not exceeding fix months,
at the discretion of the court before whom fhall^be.
And be it fuither enacted, That the ast passed at the last feflion
ot Congress, entitled, An ast to continue in force for a limited
time, an ast palled at the tirit feflion of Congress, entitled, "An
ast to regulate procefles in the courts of the United States ; and
also another ast palled at the last feflion ot Congress, entitled,
" An ast providing compensations for the officers of the judicial
courts of the United States and for jurors and witnefles, and for
other put poses," be and the fame are hereby repealed.
And be it further euafted, That it fhali be the duty of the
clci k of thp supreme court of the United States, forthwith to
tranfrnit to the clerks ot the several circuit courts the form of a
writof error, to be approved by any two of the judges ot the su
preme court, and it (hall be lawful for the clerks of the said cir
cuit courts, to iflue writs <»f error agreeably to such forms, as near
ly as the cafe may admit, under the seal of the said circuit courts,
returnable to the supreme court, in the fame manner as the clerk
of the supreme court may iflue such writs, in puifuance of the
intituled, 4t An ast to establish the judicial courts of the United
States."
And be it fuither enacted, Tnat it shall and may be lawful for
the clerks of the diftrift and circuit couits, in the absence or in
cafe of the disability of the judges, to take recognizances of spe
cial bail de bene ejfe t in any action depending in either of the said
courts, and also the affidavits of all surveyors relative to their re
poits, and to administer oaths to all persons identifying papers
found on board of velTels or elsewhere, to be used on trials in ad
miralty causes.
And be it further enacted, That in all suits and actions in any
diftrift court of the United States, in which it shall appear that
the judge of such court is, any ways, concerned in interest, or has
been of counsel for either party, it (hall be the duty of such judge
on application of either party, to cause the fact to be entered on
the minutes of the court, and also to order an authenticated'copy
thereof, with all the proceedings in such suit or action, to be forth
with certified to the next circuit court of the diftrift, which cir
cuit court (hall, thereupon, take cognizance thereof, in the like
manner, as if it had been originally commenced in that court,
and ' all proceed to hear and determine the lame accordingly.
Aud be it further enacted, That all the records and proceedings
of the court of appeals heretofore appointed, previous to the adop
tion of the present constitution, shall be deposited in the office of
the clerk of the supreme court of the United States, who is hereby
authorized and directed to give copies of all such records and
| proceedings, to any person requiring and paying for the fame,
in like manner, as copies of the records and other proceedings ot
the said court are by law directed to be given ; which copies Ihall
have like faith and credit, as all other proceedings of the said
court,
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Houfc of Reprefcntativcs,
RICHARD HENRY LEE, President
pro tempore of the Senate.
APPROVED MAY THE EICHTH, 17Q2.
An ACT concerning the claim of John Brown
Cutting againlt the United States.
BE it ena&ed by the Senate and House ot Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress aflembled, That
in consideration of certain expenditures on behalf ot the United
States, made by John Brown Cutting in the year one thouland
seven hundred and ninety, there be advanced and paid to the said
John Brown Cutting, the sum of two thousand dollars, out of any
public money not otherwise appropriated.
And be it further en acted, Thatthe Secretary ofSrate be au
thorized to enquire into the entire claim ot the said John Brown
Cutting, against the United States, and upon receipt ol the prooU
and exhibits in support thereof, to afcertaui what sum shall there
upon appear to be due to or from him, in account with the Unit
ed States, including the advance hereby directed, and to report
the fame to the next fefTionof Congress.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Iloufe of RcpreJcntatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, Vrefident
pro tempore oj the Senate.
APPROVED. MAY THE EIGHTH, 179?..
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prefidentof the United States.
453
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
0&&O
[Whole No. j 2 2.]
An ACT to compensate the services of the late
Colonel George Gibson.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House ot Reprelentatives of
the United States of America in Congress affcmbled, That
there be allowed and paid to the executors or adwiniitrators of
the late Colonel George Gibfon or to their attorney or attornics
legally appointed and authorised to receive the fame for ihe use
and benefit ot his heirs, the sum of one thousand dollars for extra
ordinary services by him rendered to the Uni'ed States during the
year one thousand seven hundred and frventy-fix.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Houje of Representatives,
RICHARD HENRY LEE, President
pro tempore of the Senate.
APPROVED. MAY THE EIGHTH, 1792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
President of the United States.
AN ACT to provide for a Copper Coinage.
BE it ena£led by the Senate and House of Reprefentdttves of
the United States of America in Congress alfembled, That
the director of the mint, with the approbation of ihe Prefider.t of
the United States, be authorized to contraff for and purchase a
quantity of copper, not exceeding one hundred and fifty tons,
and that the fatd diie&or, as soon as the needful preparations (hall
be made, cause the copper by him purchafcd to be coined at the
mint into cents, and half cenis pursuant to 11 the a6l eftablifbing a
mint, and regulating the coins of the United States," and that the
said cents and half cents, as they (ball be coined, be paid into
the Treafurv of the United States, thence to iflue into circulation.
And be it further enaaed, That alter the expiration of fix ca
lendcr'months from the time when there (hall have btrSti paid in
to thetreafury by the said dircftor, in cents and half cents, a sum
not less than fifty thousand dollats, which time (hall foithwith be
announced by the trcafurer in at lead two gazettes or news-papers,
publilhed at the feat of the government of the United States, for
the time being, no copper coins or pieces whatsoever, except the
said cents and half cents, (hall pass current as money, or (hall be
paid or offered to be paid or received in payment for any debt,
demand, claim, matter or thing whatsoever ; and all copper coins
or pieccs, except the said cents and half cents, which (hall be paid
or offered to be paid or received in payment contrary to the pro
hibition aforrfaid, (hall be foifeited, and every person by whom
any of them (hall have been so paid or offered to be paid or re
ceived in payment, (hall also forfeit the sum of ten dollars, and
the said forfeiture and penjlty (hall and may be recovered with
costs of suit for the benefit of any person or petlons by whom in
formation of the incurring thereof (hall have been given.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of Representatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, President
pro tempo 7 eof the Senate.
APPROVED, MAY THE EICHTH, 1792
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
RESOLVED by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress aftembled, That
the Secretary of the Treafuiy eaufe to be provided, for the use of
the several collectors in the United States, printed clearances, on
the back whereof shall be a printed account of the methods, which
have been found to answer for obtaining freih, from fait water,
and of conftrufting extempore ftvlls, of such implements, as are
generally on board of every vessel, with a recommendation, in all
cases, where-they fliall have occalion to resort to this exp dtent
for oblaining water, to publish the result of their trial in some ga
zette, on their return to the United States, or to communicate it
for publication, to the toffice of the Secretary of State, in order
that others may, bv their success, be encouraged to make fnnilar
trials, and be benefited by any improvements or new ideas, which
may occur to them in prattice.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of Reprejcntativcs.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, Ptefident
pro tempore oj the Senate.
APPROVED, MAY TH £ EIGHTH, 1792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
AN ACT to alter the time for the next Annual
Meeting of Congress,
BE it enatted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America, in Congress assembled,
That after the adjournment of the present session, the next
annual meeti*g of Congress lhall be on the firft Monday in
November next.
Jonathan Trumbull, speaker
of the limfe of Representatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, PrtJUnt
pro tempore ej the Semale.
APPROV £0, MAY TH« lIFTH, *
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prefidentof the United States.
AN ACT for making compensations to the Com*
mitfioners of Loans for extraordinary expences.
BE it ena&ed by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America, in Congress aflembled,
That the Commifiioners of Loans in the several states (hall be
allowed, in the settlement of their accounts, such sums as shall
appear to have been necefTarily expended by them in the pur
chase of stationary for the use of their several offices, and also
for the hire of clerks to aflift in executing the duties of their
refpe&ive offices, from the firft day of October last, until the
firft day of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety
three.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Houje of Representatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, Pre/ident
pro tempore oj the Senate.
APPROVED MAY THE EICHTH, 1792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Pref.dent of the United States.AN ACT making certain appropriations therein
fpecified.
BE it enacted by t' e Senate and House of Representatives
of the Urjited States of America, in Congress assembled,
That there be granted and appropriated the following funis for
the following purposes, to wit: For the dikitarge oi: a balance
to the commUT'oners, appointed under the ast of Congress of
the fifteenth of March, otjc thou (and feveu hundred and eighty
five, two thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven dollars and
eighty-eight cents: For additional salary to the iirft clerk of
the commiflioners for fettling accounts between the United
States and individual ftatess one hundred and eighty-leven dol
lars and ninety-one cents: For defraying the e&pence of -flut
ing and printing certain public accounts pursuant to the order
of the House of Representatives of the thirtieth of December,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one,eight hundred dol
lars : For discharging the accounts of officers of the courts oi
the United States, jurors and witnelles, in aid of the fund here
tofore appropriated, seventeen thousand dollars: For making
good deficiencies in former appropriations for defraying the ex
pence of the enumeration of the inhabitants of the United
States, four thousand fix hundred and ninety-five dollars and
fifty-nine cents: For discharging certain accounts againit the
treasury department, to the end of the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-one, including a sum of fix hundreddollars
for furnifhing the supervisors of the revenue with fcrew-proiTes,
seals and other articles, one thousand nine hundred and fifty
five dollars and fixty-oue cents : For a balance due to Lieute
nant John Freeman, of the late Maryland line, on account of
. subsistence for the years one thousand seven hundred and eighty
two, and one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three, forty
one dollars and feventy-five cents : For compensations to the
clerks'of the a&ing commillioner of army accounts, and con
tingencies of his office, one thousand three hundred and twenty
nine dollars and sixteen cents: For additional.compensations
to the door-keepers of the House of Reprefeutatives, pursuant
to.a resolution of the House of the twenty-fourth of March
la ft, seven hundred dollars: For the di (charge of such demands
against the United States, not otherwise provided for, as ■ftiall
have been ascertained aad admitted, in due course of* settle
ment at the treasury, and which are of a nature according to
the usage thereof, to require payment in specie, five thousand
dollars : All which said sums, amounting together to thirty
four thousand four hundred and ninety-seven dollars and ninety
cents, shall and may be paid out of the funds following, any or
all of them; namely, the furplulfes* which may remain cf ap
propriations heretofore made, after fatisfying the purposes of
iuch appropriations; monies which have been paid iftto the
treasury, in consequence of balances which have been found
due froth individuals, relating to tranfa&ions prior to the pre
sent government of the United States; the surplus not here
tofore appropriated, of the duties on imports and tonnage,
which accrued to the end of the year one thousand even hun
dred and ninety-one.
And be it further enacted, That To much of the aforefaid
(iirplus of the duties on impost and tonnage, which accrued to
the end of the year one thonfand seven hundred and ninety
one, as may be neceiTarv, flia.ll be and is hereby appropriated,
in addition to the provilion heretofore made, towards defray
ing the expences, which shall have been incurred in the execu
tion of the ast for raising and adding another regiment to the
military eftahlifhment of the United and for making
further provilion for the protection of the frontiers, within the
limits o* the sum of three hundred and twelve tioufand, fix
hundred and eighty-fix dollars and twenty cents, thereby au
thorised ; and towards reimbursing any funis which may have
been borrowed, or advances of money which may have been
obtained for that purpose.
And be it further enacted, That a sum of fifty thousand
dollars, in addition to the provision heretofore made, be appro
priated to defray any expence which may be incurred in rela
tion to the intercour/e between the United States and foreign
nation?, to be paid out of any monies which may be in the trea
sury, not otherwise appropriated and to be applied under the
direction of the President of the United States, who, if necef
fury, is authorised to borrow on the credit of the United States,
the said sum of fifty thousand dollars; an account of the ex
penditure thereof, as soon as may be, shall be laid before
Congress.
JONATHAN TRUMBULI., Speaker
of the House of Rtprefentatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, Prejtient
pro tempore ojthe Senate.
APPROVED MAY THE EIGHTH, 1792.
A" ACT refp«Sing the Government of the Ter
ritories of the United S-tates North Well and
South of the River Ohio.
"D E '-t cnafted by the Senate and Htmfe of Keprcfentatives of
-L* tiie Ignited States of America, in Congress afiembled,
JTliat the laws of the territory no; th weft of the river Ohio,
that have been or hereafter may be enacted by the governor
and judges thereof, shall be printed under the direction of the
Secretary of State, and two hundred copies thereof, together
with ten sets of the laws of the United States, (hall be deliver
ed to the said governor and judges, to be distributed among
the inhabitants fur their information, and that a like number
oi the laws of the United States, shall be delivered to the go
vernor and judges fonth weft of the river Ohio.
And be it further enacted, That t!ie governor and judges
o. t.ie territory north weft of the river Ohio shall be, and here
by are authorized to repeal their laws by them made, whenso
ever tue fame may be found improper.
And be it further enacted, That'the official duties of the
f cietaries ot the fa id territories ftiaU be under the control of
such laws, as are or may be in force in the said territories.
And be it further enacted, That any one of the fnpreme or
superior judges of the said territories, in the absence of the
other judges, shall be and hereby is authorized to hold a court.
And be it further enacted, That the Secretary of slate,
provide proper seals for the several and refp<fti\ e public offices
in the said territories.
And be it further enacted, That the limitation act. pa/Ted
by the governor and judges of the said territory, the 28th day
of December, one thousand leven hundred and eightv-eight be
and hereby is disapproved.
Andbeit furtherenafted, That the expenfesincurredbv John
Cleves Syrames and George Turner, two of the judges of the
said territory, in fending an exprefs,and in purchasing a boat to
go the circuit, in the year one thousand seven hundred ;• nd nine
ty, mall be liquidated by the officer, of the treasury, ard paid
cut ol the treasury of the United States.
-JONATHAN TRUMBUIL, Speaker
oj the Hcufe ol RepTeUntatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, Prejdcrt
pro tempore oj the Senate.
APPROVED, MAY -HE llr-HTH, 1792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prejidcnt of the United States.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President as the United States.
AN ACT autliorifing the grant and conveyance
of certain Lands to John Clsves Symutts, and his
Aflociates
BE itenafted by the Senate and Ha use of Representatives
of the United States of America, in Congref;
That the President of the United States be, and he hereby is
authorized and empowered to ilTue letters patent in the name
and under the seal of the United States, thereby granting and
conveying to John Cleves Symmes and his affeciatc , and to
their heirs and afiigns, in fee limple, such" number of acres of
land as the payments already made by the said John Cleve~,
Symmes, his agents or afVociates, under their contract of the
fifteenth day of October, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
eigiit, will pay for, estimating the lands at two-thirds of a dol
lar per acre, and making the reservations fpecified in the faiid
contract.
And be it further endfted, That the President be, and he
hereby is further authorized and empowered, by letters patent
as aforefaid, to grant and convey to the laid John Cleves
Symmes and his aflbciates,and to their heirs and afiigvis in fee
simple, one other tract of one hundred and fix thousand eight
hundred and fifty-feven acres, with the reservations as afore
faid :—Provided, That the said John Cleves Symmes, or his
agents or aiiociates, or any of them, shall deliver to the Secre
tary of the Treasury, within fix months, warrants which iiTued
for army bounty rights fufficient for that purpose, according
to the provfion of the resolves of Congress of the twenty-third
of July, and second of O&ober, one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-seven; but in cafe so many warrants (hould not he
delivered, then the letters patent last aforefaid to be given for
such number of acres, as lha.il be in proportion to the war
rants so delivered.
And be it further enabled, That the President be, and he is
hereby authorized and empowered, by letters patent as afore
faid, to grant and convey unto the said John Cleves Symmes
and his alTociates, their heirs and afligns, in trull for the pur
ne'e of eftablilhing an academy and other public schools and
feminavies of learning, one compleat townlhip, conformably to
an order of Congress of the second of October, one thousand
leven hundred and eighty-lever, made in of the
application of the said John Cleves Symmes, for the purchase
of the trart aforefaid.
And be it further enacted, That the several quantities of
land, to be granted and conveycd as aforefaid, shall be included
and located within fnch limits and lines of boundary, as the
President may judge expedient, agreeably to an ast palled the
twelfth day of April, one thousand seven hundred and ninety
two, " for ascertaining the bounds of a tract of land purthafed
by John Cleves Symmes.
JONATHAN TRUMBULI, Speaker
oj the Houje oj ReprcfevtJtiveJ.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, President
pro tempore of the Senate.
APFROVED MAY THE FIFTH, 179 2.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President oj the United Stutes.
STOCKHOLM, March 20.
The following account of the attempt to aflaf
finate the King, in the night of the 16th March,
was read in the Royal Chancery and published
by authority in the public papers of the 18th.
" Last Friday the i6th of March, at three
quarters past eleven o'clock night, a fhorttime
after the King had entered the nialked ball-room
in theßoyal Opera Houfe,an unknown mafic forc
ed his way through the croud of masks which
surrounded the King, and fired a pistol at him,
the charge wher.eof .entered a little above the
left hip and touched the back bone.
" Although so severely wounded, the King
had yet strength enough to walk to the next clo
set, whei e he reclined on a fopha, andconverfed
with some of the gentlemen of the court, as well
as some of the principal officers of State, who
had obtained leave to follow him, with thegreat
eft chearfulnefs until the surgeons arrived, when
ttie wound was examined and the firft drefling
laid on.—His Majesty was then carried to the
palace, and at 4 o'clock in the morning be was
bled.
" Immediately after the fliot was fired thcfre
were found in the Opera Room two pistols, one
of which the aflaflin had made use of ; but the
other was yet loaded with two buck-shot, a quan
tity of fniall shot, and some points of cut nails.
" The afiaffin, a discharged captain, John Ja
cob Ankerftrom, was discovered the nexc day,
the 17ih of March about 10 o'clock in the fore
noon and arrested. He confeded his crime, and
acknowledged that the pistol he fired had been
loaded with two bulleis, the one round, the o
ther beat square, besides with 12 grains of (hot
and 7 small nail points ; that the other piitol
had been loaded nearly in the fame manner ;
and that he held besides a knife in the other
hand, which he had bought,but a week before
and had caused it 10 be ground with an edge on
each fide.
" Though the wound has not been fullv clear
ed yet of the many parts of the charge, the fur
geons heverthelefs have been able to a fibre '.he
diftrefl'ed Royal Family, as well as the afloniflied
inhabitants of this capital, tliat the ftiot did not
touch those parts whose violation might have
produced more dangerous consequences for the
life of the King.
His Majesty is as well as his circuniftances
will permit, and has enjoyed now and then some
rell in his Deep.
'< His Majesty not only sustained the exami
nation of tile wound, and other pains with thc't
perfeift serenity and strength of mind, which
have dilhnguifhed Co many atfttons of the life of
the King, but he likewise received the Roval
family, numbers of the court, officers of state,
and foreign ministers at his bed fide. His Ma
jcitj in the fame iitnuiicr himfelf regulaicd the
454
Royal Regency dictated their inflations, and
signed both lnit runients with his own h tnd
" The examinations respecting this horrid
deed, and all that has any connexion therewith
continue in the forenoon and afternoon before
the Royal Court of Chancery, and the public
will receive in tins manner all poflible elucida
tion refpetf ing an event, which nearly concerns
every faithful fubjeJt, and which, until 'litis im
portant moment, never had been heard ofiu the
kingdom of Sweden/'
Let.ter lo the King of Sweden,apprizing him
of die intended aflafiiuation.
" Sire,
" Deign to attend the information of a jnan
who, though not honoured by serving yon, noc
ambitious of your favour, and not flattering' four
foibles ; yet endeavors to avert the danger whicb
menaces your life. They are about to aflaffi
nate you : do not doubt it. They were in des
pair to fee themselves disappointed when the
ball was last week put off, but they refolveJ ta
try it to day. Keep yourfeif private, and avoid
the ensuing entertainments, at least for t his sea
son—give the ccyifpirators time to moderate their
passions ; please to avoid alfo-the lower patt of
the caflle of Haga.—ln,a word, use every cir
cumi'petftion, at least .for onft month.—Do not
take pains to discover the author of this letter :
he happened by chance to be acquainted with
the bloody scheme that threatens your life ; and
belive that he is not interested id destroying
the .plan which threatens you.—ln cafe your
mercenary loldiers had atfed with violence a
gain It the citizens at Gefte, the author of this
letter would have opposed you sword in hand i
but he detelts aliallination."
PARIS, March '*
Several cirizens of colour, reiident rn Paris,
prefenred an address of thanks to the legiflacive
aflembly on the decree which restores them to
their rights in the colonies.
An account was received on Wednesday even
ing, that the iufurgcnts in the city of Aries had
surrendered, and marched out to receive tbe
troops sent against them.
All the plots of the enemies of our liberties
fail in regular fuccefi'jon, and we hear of their
projetfs and defeats almost in the fame breath.
M. La Fayette is f'et out for Meiz, in company
with Meflrs. Montesquieu, De Crillon, Cadet,
De Tracy, and Le Wimpfen, ail members of the
Conftiment Aflembly, and who are employed in
his division of the army in quality of General
Officers.—Bon Voyage !
M. Gamier, whom the King had named tq be
Minister of Justice, has declined. M. Claviere,
late President of the Jacobins, has been named
Minister of public contributions, in the room of
M. Tarbi, resigned. The King has flgnifiecf all
tliofe appointments to the Lfcgiflature, in a«
elegant note, which he addrefled to them on Sa
turday
The di farming of the regiment of Ernest has
3een taken up in the molt ("erious manner by the
Swiss Cantons ; the republic of Berne have made
a Reclamation to the King, againll the hostile
conduct of the National Guards of Marfei|les,
and have formally demanded their retreat, and
the restoration of their arms.
Since the installation of our new ministry, the
iitmoft tranquility reigns in Paris.and as foonas
time will permit, their operations from the ar
rangement of the accounts of their predeccflors,
we hope to liearof the fame peaceable difpofitioii
throughout the reft of the kingdom.
MADRAS, (K. 1.) November 25.
By advices from the Southward, we learn, that
the gallant Chalmers, after a lioble defence, in
which he displayed the greatest bravery, joined
to an exertion of equal abilities, has at length
been obliged to surrender Cointbatore to the
enemy
VIENNA, March 7.
All that has hitherto transpired relative to the
<leath of the Emperor, tends to icfnte tlieiuppo
'itiotis of those who attribute his death to any
bui natural caul'es. ,
Inflead therefore of indulging suspicions at al
times odious, the cauft" of the disorder which 11-
leritly undermined the Emperor's conflitntion,
may he ascribed to a dysentery toofuddenly »°P
ped last year, the time of his coronation, as King
of Bohemia, at Prague.
March 10. The Empress Dowager, overcome
with giief, has been very unwell, was bled ti e
times, and received the Sacrament, but has
much better fines yefterdav.
HAGUE, Mareh 27-
An extraordinary council was held the cbj c
fore yelterday, By the Prince of Orange, leiative
'o the derangement of finances of the Rep" c t
which are in a much worse condition than is 0
nci :illv believed
Weal e yet uncertain what answer will *>e K 1 * .
to tbe niemerial tranfinitted by tbe 1 e ® c .' i.
nifter relative to tlie insult committed at B 1
hourg againlt tbe French National flag-Philadelphia, May 50.
By the Pigou, Capt. Loxley, arrived at this port from Lon
don," English nev/lpaper; are received to the 4th April the
following is an abstraCt of the intelligence they contain
The new King of Hungary has declared that the f.tuation of
things will not permit him to interfere in the aflairs of France.
Leopold died on the very day limited by the National AUenibly
for him to give his final answer refpeft.ng the part
to take in French affairs. The ex-princes Conde &<1 Artois,
find themselves duped by M. Calonne, who had promifcd them
more immediate success. Ihe Einpre so \u '
letter to the Pope, condoles with him on the loss ol Avignon
auid promises to do all in her power to re-inltate hnn in the
estates he has been deprived ot by the National Assembly.
The negociations between Austria and Prulha, interrupted by
the death of the Emperor, have been renewed at Y lenna with
the new King of Hungary. The diet for the coronation of
Francis I. in Hungary, is fixed tor the 23th May. An lnfu
reft',on broke out in Hesse Caffel, occasioned by a re g'^ ents
demanding full pay as in war time, on being ordered to.Marc
to a town on the Rhine. The coniufion and danger
great, that the Landgrave retired to his castle, and from ttienc |
fled to Hanai. near Franckfort. This is the prince who fold
his fubjefts at so much a head during the late war x imesap
pear to be changed—The plague has been so horrible '"Egypt,
that 63,003 have died of it in Grand Cairo alone t.ie last .sum
mer—At a meeting of the Humane Society, London, Doctor
Lettfom stated that 1579 persons have been restored to hie by
the means recommended by the society. -The lofles n .
Domingo, by the infurreftion, are estimated at 5, , - •
sterling.—Letters from Conftantmople mention, thattheG.and
Seignior has caused the famous Baffa of Ackifca to be ftran
pled, and his head to be expoled on the walls of the Seraglio
this Baffa was a principal instigator of the war with Russia—
Orders have been given bv the King of the French to form a
camp in the south of France—Fifteen articles of impeach
ment against M. de Leffart, one of the late French Mimfters,
are publilhed under the Paris head; they relate chiefly to re
miffnefs and inattention-in refpea to the conduit of the Em
peror of Germany and the ex-princes, and neglecting and
betraying his duties—he is to be impeached and tried—A new
office is created by the King of the French, that ot a Director-
General of Foreign Affairs ; to which M. Bonnecarrere, a bo
som friend of Mirabeau, decealed, is appointed—On the 13th
March, the French Court went into mov.rning on account of
the death of the Emperor, but only a few ventured to appear
publiclv therein. The Jacobins had declared publicly, in the
cmfee-houfes and other places, that all those deferyed to be
-nicked down who were pofleffed of so little patnotiim as to
ear in mourning—The death of the Emperor was confi
de.' 's an event so favorable to the revolution, that alhgnats
roj , 'ay 10 per cent, but fell again to their old price.
rrr )UI om Messrs. Fenwick and Co. Bourdetfux, received
at Vi ■ idence, R. I. fav, that exchange was in favor of affig
nat f .h t thev had gained from 15 to 20 per cent, with
every „• -.eai :nce of a further rife.—Further accounts to 26th
March,'ftate, that the political affairs of France had affnmed
a verv pleafmg aspeCt since the Emperor's deatl—and that
there were 300,000 national troops 011 the frontiers ready, to
repel anv invasion.
On the third of April, the fubjeft of the Slave-Trade was
the order of the day in the Britifli House of Commons—when
Mr. 'Wilberforqe, after a lengthy speech, in committee of the
, hole, on the injustice, cruelty and inhumanity of this corn
m -rce, made the following motion :
rhat it i; the opinion of this committee that the flave
•-ide carried on by this country ought to be abolifhet!—and
Tint the chairman move for leave to bring in a bill to
procure its abolition.
After a Jong debate, the motion was amended to read thus :
That it is the opinion of this committee, that, the trade in
(laves between the coast of Africa and the Weft-India islands,
fliould be gradually aboil(hed.
The motion, thus amended, was agreed to —ayes 23c,
noes 8 5-
M''. Pitt, Mr. Fox, Mr. Thornton, and others, v.ete in fa
vor of an immediate abolition—the Speaker, Mr. Dnr.das,
Mr. Jenkinfon, and others, for a gradual peril nf to its exiiicuce.
Benjamin Weft, Esq. is chosen President of the Royal Acade
micians, in the place of Sir Joshua Reynolds, deceased.
Accounts are received from India to the 28th December, at
which time Lord Cornwallis had not taken Seringapitam.
Tippoo was advanced ten miles from his capital, and had
strongly fortified his camp, which it was hourly txpeftcd tl e
allied army would attack.
We some time since mentioned that there had been an er.-
gagem«nt between a French and English frigate in the Irdian
seas—the French frigate was the Resoi.ui, of 32 guns—the
English, the Phenix, Capt. Strachan. The action happened
on the 19th November, occasioned by the Frenchman's oppos
ing the English in their attempt to search some French mer
chantman—after a well fought aCtion, the Kesoive v. as taken; |
she had 25 men killed, and 40 wounded—the Fhenix, fix killed
and 11 wounded. The French frigate was left in IValle Road,
her officers and men refufing to ha\ e any more to do with her.
The English frigate Pandora, is loft 011 a reef of' rocks off
the north end of New Holland.. —The Provideme, Captain
Bligh, failed from tv Cape of Good Hope for the South Seas.
This is the fliip destined to bring the Bread-Fruit-Tree to the
Weft-Inuia islands. —India Stock fell 11 per cent, in conse
quence of the above news brought home by the Thames
Frigate.
Paris accounts, via Hamburgh, inform, that a new appoint
ment of Ministers had taken place. M. Grenice is Keeper of
the Seal—M. Roland de la Platierre, of Lyons, Mirifter of the
Home Department—M. Claviere, Minister of Finance.—The
House of Le Normand, of Cadiz, has failed for ten millions,
and has involved the Houl'e of Lalanne, and several others.—
M. Dumourier, French Minister of Foreign Affairs, constantly
attends the Jacobin Club.
Francis, the new Sovereign of Germany, has adopted the
system of the Emperor Joseph—educated in his school, and
having imbibed his principles, it is expeCted he will carry them
into execution—A frigate has arrived at Cadiz from the Ha
vannah, with a cargo of 1,192,904 piastres for the King, and
128,359 on private account, &c. —A decree of aranefty has
pal Ted the National Affemblv, in behalf of the people of Avig
non, concerned in the excesses and massacres which took place
in that city, as mentioned in a former paper—this is repre
sented in the English papers, in an extract of a letter from
Paris, as having excited universal indignation in that city—
several of the members publiflied protests against it.—The so
" reign accounts vary exceedingly as to the part which Francis
the firft will ultimately take in the affairs of the emigrant
princes—the predominant idea i:, that he will cultivate a pa
cific system.—The articles under the head of CoblentE are full
• • of flattering representations.—The late change in th« Spaaifli
Ministry, they fav, is auspicious to thecaufe of the emigrant 1 :,
as the new Prime Minister, Count D'Aranda, is laid to be much
attached to the House of Bourbon —whereas Count Floi'icia
Blanca was unfriendly to the ianiily compact with i- ranee.
The petitions to Parliament for the abolition of the ilavt
trade, were exceedingly numerous, and were received ti oni
almolt all the principal towns in Kngland and Scotland; and
for the honor of human nature, and this enlightened is
inoft earneflly to he wished that this inhuman traffic in black
men raav no longer blacken the character ot white men.
We can aFure the public, from good authority, that the
Bank of the United States have lately made a Loan to the
Government of Five Hundred and .Twenty-Three 1 houland,
Five Hundred Dollars, at a rate o*'intereft of five per cent,
per annum, free from charges, and redeemable at the
pleasure or the United Sta.tes.
Thus, do ve lee realized (lays a correspondent) much earlier
than was supposed, by a direct loan, in our own countiy, a re-,
du&ion of one per cent, in the rate of government interest ,;
and we fee also a striking illustration ot the utility ot the insti
tution from which the loan proceeded. This money has been
borrowed an anticipation of the extra duties laid during the
last feflion of Congiefs, for the purpose ot carrying into execu
tion the iraafures which are in train for the protection ol our
iifvaded fiontiers. Tie in fiance is the more inteiefting, as
in it we find extended to the remote# parts of the Union, the
benefits of a found state of public credit, and ot the hiealures
by which i: has been established.
By letters from the Weflern Country, of a late date, we
learn thatno recent depredations of tie Indians have taken
place—and that in consequence of Gen. "Wilkinfon's having
established a post at Fort St. Clair, a council of the hostile
tribes has been held; what the result was, is not mentioned.
In tht Pigou, Captain Loxley, came the fol
lowing paflengers :
Mr. liman, Mr. Freyer, Mr. Lea, Mr. Calla
nan, and jo iteerage paflengers.
Mr. Penn, and Mr. Andiew Allen, and their
familiel were expected to etnbaik, on board the
CaitJe Douglas (of Charleston) tor Philadelphia
in a fev days after the Pigou failed.
Satu day last arrived from Cape-Francois the
brig Fair Hebe, Captain Feinour, in which vef
(el ievera) ladies and gentlemen came paflengers,
among whom is the Hon. Mr. de la Koute,one of
the judges of the iiland of Hifpaniola.
Captain Macpherfon, of this city, recommends
the following method to prevent the roots ot
lbingltd Houses taking fire. Let your fhmgles,
when prepared for nailing on the lath, be ioak
ed foil teen days in a trough of llrong pickle.
The saline particles will in that time thoroughly
pervade every pore of the shingles so as to len
der them in a great degree, incombustible ; at
least, if burning coals are put thereon, they will
be extnguifhed without injuring the (hingles.
We near theve is a profpetft of the business
of opening the coal-mines on the river Leheigh,
being i'oon taken upferioufly. A meeting of the
president and managers of the company, efta
blifhec for that purpole, was held in this city on
Thurflay last, when it was determined that a
convocation of the stockholders fliall be held at
the Stite House on Monday, July 2d.
A ireeting of subscribers to " the leveral Ga
zettes and newspapers printed in Philadelphia,
is advertised, in the Virginia Gazette of the 19th
instant, to be held at the Eagle Tavern, in the
city of Richmond, on Monday the 21 It of May,
" to fake into consideration the laiv oj the United
State: a tax on the j~a'td Gazettes and news
papers—A difcuflion of this fubjedt by the said
subscribers, and indeed by the citizens at large,
who are invited also to this meeting, appears to
be more neceflary at this time, from the alarm
ing; consequences which may arifefrom the want
of due information on a number of fubjec r ts, 011-
ly to be obtained by a free circulation of that
important article, a public newspaper.
Exlrafl oj a letter from a house of reputation at
".r-•- ' • ' '
Cape-Frajjcois y to ihcir jrtends in this city.
" This island is more and more approaching
towards its total deftru<ftion, and in a very short
time, if some considerable forces do not arrive
from fraiice, no l<ind of producc will be pro
cured here."
" 1 think it certain (fays Mr. Paine) that if
the fleets of England, France, and Holland were
confederated, together with inch force as the
United States of America could throw in, they
might propose with effect, to Spain, the indepen
dence of South-America, and the opening those
countries of inimenfe extent and wealth to the
general commerce of the world, as North Ame
rica now is. The opening of South America
would produce an immense field of commerce,
and a ready money market for manufactures,
which the Eastern world does not."
" With how much more glory and advantage
(continues he) to itfelf, does a nation a<S, when
it exerts it powers to refcuethe world from bon
dage, and to create itfelf friends, than when it
employs those powers to create ruin, desolation
and inifery. The horrid scene that is now adi
ing by (heßritiih government intheEalt Indies,
is fit only to be told of Goths and Vandals, who.
destitute of principle, robbed and tortured the
world they were incapable of enjoying."
Died, at WoodltocK State of Rhocle-Ifland, the Honorable
Joseph Russell —ag'cy 60.
455
Economy is a virtue —by the exercise of which,
liberty has been preserved, perpetuated and enjoyed, wheie
the sterility of nature afforded lcarcely any thing ell'e.
..Luxury, on the other hand, is the canker ot a tree llate—it
vitiates and destroys the principles of patriotism, by cieating
a falfe tafle, and substituting for the virtues on which the pub
lic freedom and happiness must ultimately oepend for their
fuppart, the principles of unbridled licentioulnels.
In last Wednesday's Gazette, a new publication, entitled,
The Foresters, an American Tale/' was mentioned The
1 towing extract from the work will ihew toe author s
nner:—
ult remains only that I give you some account-ot Mr.
Lewis. The adventures in his family have been very
I formerly told vou tlrit he feed lawyers to plead the cauie ol
the fere Iters.* These subtile pra&itioners loon found that the
fame arguments which they were obliged toufe in favor ot the
forefters, would apply with equal propriety to the cale ot Mi-
Lewis's own family. He had long been a widower, and the
family was governed by a fuccelkon of kept miitreiles, who
minded only their pleasures and the enriching ot their own re
lations and dependants. The tenants were abuled, the iriu.n
fion haufe was dirty and out of repair, and though the rents
were paid into the hands of the steward, yet much opprelhoii
and embezzlement, and little economy, were the constant to
pics of complaint. . ,
iC After the alteration, produced by the afliftance of Lewis s
lawyers ?n the sorest, they began to think it was high time to
do something of the fame kind at hoftie. The only peaceable
remedy which they could imagine, was to persuade Mr. Lewis
to marrv a reputable woman, who would be agreeable to the
family. "After much argument he was at length brought to fee
the neceflity of the cafe; and to prevent a lawsuit, with which
they threatened him, he consented to take the wises which tney
recommended. She is a lady of good sense and polite manners,
and treats him with the greatest deference and propriety. She
has had the mansion thoroughly repaired, the floors and win
dows cleaned, and the walls v/hitewafhed, and is not afiaid to
let hec inmost apartments be visited by the lun and air. lic
building is now commodious, wholesome, and pleasant, and tne
dirty dog kennel,t which llcod near the door, is demolnhed.
" It is fufpefted by foine that Lewis still has a hankering
after his old connexions, but he profeffes love tohis new wile
in the strongest terms imaginable. His caft-otl mistress has
had the audacitv to inult the newly married lady, and tell hei
that (he has no'bufinefs to occupy her apartments; th atall
Mr. Lewis's profefllons are insincere, and that flu lull polleile;
his heart. If these ladies should go to pulling caps, Mr. Lewis
will be in a critical situation, as indeed every man is when
two women are contending for him. It is said that iome o
the neighbouring gentlemen, who prefer concubinage to matri
mony, have taken the part of the late mistress, and iniift on
her restoration to bed and board ; but how this matter will
terminate can be decided only by futurity.
" He has also been very unfortunate in some of his diltant
plantations and factories. His black cattle liave caught the
horn difteinper ; some of his farm houses have been burnt, and
it is thought that several years will intervene before his affairs
will he set to rights.
* Americans, "t "The NotioQ&l Cofijlitution, + Bijlilc.
ARRIVALS AT the PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Pig"u, Loxley, London,
Pat'fey Rutledgc, M'Pherfon, Hamburgh,
Barque C:efai, Tbompfon, Lisbon,
Brig Hope, Lee, Jamaica, ,
- Haty, Clouicr, Si. Euftatia,
Mollv, Coppinger, Port-au-Prince,
At New-Ycrk, on Sunday last, the British Packet for March.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per CentSj
Deferred,
Indents,
Final Settlements, - - 18/6
Half (hares Bank. U. S. 52 per cent, premium.
Shares Bank North-America, 15 ditto.
$3" This number complete* the Third Volume of the Gazette
of the United States ; in which the publication of the Laws, He.
pajjed at the latefeffion ojCong,refs t if JiniJhed. —An index will be pre
pared as soon as pojjible.
Subfaibers sot this Gazette in New-York, are requejled to pay any
arrearages due on their subscriptions, to Mejfrs. P. Wetmore and
Brother I, No. 9 Burling Slip—with whom, thoje who max fee proper
to continue Cujlomers, will pleaje to renew their Subscriptions. The
Papers to be sent by Pofi.
THIS DAY are publijhed by Andrew Brown, and fold by the
principal Bookjellers in the city of Philadelphia,
T H E
L A
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
PASSED AT THE LAST SESSION OF CONGRESS:.
AND CORRECTED BY TyE OIBICINAL
ROLLS IN THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
Price One Quarter of a Dollar.
THE ACTS Qf this feflion, agreeably to the plan of this edi
tion of the laws of the United States, will be considered as the
first part of the second volume; so that the a6ts of each
Congress (the duration of which is limited by the conlluution to
the term of two years) will bs compiifed in «ne volume.
To the a£ts of this feflion vill i>e annexed the ratifications of
the amendments to the Confttutiori ; the confederation between
the United States and the Delaware nation of Indians ; the tieaty
between the United States and the Wyandot, Delaware, Ottawa,
Chippewa, Pattawatimi and Sac Nations; the treaty between
the United States and the Cherokee Nation; and the armistice,
declaring a ceUation of hoftilties between the United Slates and
: These, will those in the firld volume of the laws
are all the existing treaties.
A copious index will accompany the second volume—when
completed, at the end of the next (eflion ot Congrcfs.
u As it is desirable that copies of the laws should be so multi
plied throughout the States, and in such cheap forms, as that every*
citizen of the United States ruay be able to procure them," it has
been thought advifeable, in this addition, 10 omit the fignature9
of the President of the United States, the Prelident of the Senate,
and the Speaker of the Houf; of Representatives. Their signa
tures would have increased tile lize of the volume, and consequent
ly have rendered it more exfenfive, without adding to its ufefuf
nefi or authenticity, inasmuch as the Secretary of State's certificate
is to be piefixed to the volune.
This edition of the Laws of the United States is also to be Sold by
Me/frs. Thomas and Andrews,Bojlon ; John Carter, Esq. Providence,
Rhode- ljland ; Mejfr*. Hudjot and Goodwin, Hartford-, Mr. Thomas
dreenleaf, New-York ; Mefjrs. Goddard and Ange'J, Baltimore ; Au
gvjiine Davis, Esq. Richmond and Mr. W. P. Young, Charleflan t
South-Carolina.
22/6
>374
>3/9
1 a/4
w s
O* THEitm
PRICE CURRENT. —-—PHILADELPHIA.
FIR QUANTITY.
May 30. —Dollars 100 Centscach.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7c 8c Pitch, pr. bol ldj&td
Allam, Englilb, pr.c. 3d73c\d Pork, Burlington, lid lid 67c
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11c Lower county iod
Ashes, pot, per toe, god 100 d Carolina 9 d
• Pearl, Peas, Albany pr. bufli. 73 c
Arrack pr. gall. 1 d 33c id 67c Pepper, pr. lb. 50c
Brandy, common, id 26c Pimento i6c
Cogntac id 65c
Braziletto, pr. ton. 37^33M
Bricks, pr. M. 4d $d
Bread, ship, pr. cwt. id Bcc id
Ditto, pilot 3d67c
Ditto, small water 36c 40c
Beer, American, in j oc
bot.pr.doz. hot. incl. j 4
pr. bbl. 4d 67c
c/ 5 f Oak pr.M feet, qd iod
Q I Merch. pine ibd 17d
Sap, do. 8d 50 c 9d
O i N.£ng. nd
14d
The above are the Shallop prices ;
Jot the Yard pr ices add id 33c
pr. M.
Brimstone rolls pr.cwt. 3d33c
Beef, Boston 8d
Country 6d -jd
Butter pr. lb. * 16c
in kegs 10c 12c
2 f S P er - pr. lb. 43c
5J I Wax 53 c 5 6 C
P Myrtle Wax 13c
j Mould,tallow nc
U L Dipped 10c
Cheese, Englifti, pr. lb. 19c
Country Bcioc
Chocolate 17c 18c
Cinnamon 2d 40c 2d 67c
Cloves id 33 c
Coal pr. bulhel 20c 22c
Cocoa pr. cwt. 33*
Coffee pr. Ib. 2cc
Copperas pr.cwt. id6jc
Cordage 7d6yc%d
Cotton pr. lb. 30c 42c
Currants 13c
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece 1 it/ 33c
Ravens 8a 93c 9 J 67c
Feathers pr. lb- 40c 44c
Flax 10c
yiaxfeed pr. bush. 85c got
Flour, Super, pr. bbl. 4dSee 5d
Common, 4d 58c
Bur middlings,beft 4d
Meal, Indian 2d 67c
ditto Rye, yl
Ship-ftuff pr.cw. id
Fustic pr. ton, 20d
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe, \d
Do. pr. gals. Bo<
Glue, pr. cwt. 20d
Ginger, whiterace 7<
Ditto, common 7<
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 8,
Ginfcng, 2cc 24
Gunpowder, can-> , _
non, pr. q. c. )
Ditto, fine glazed
"Wheat pr. bust* 95c a
R >' c 5°^54
J, Oals 26
< Indian corn 44
fj. Barley go<.
BeO shelled pr. I'd. 3,
_ Buckwheat per bufb. 40,
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, X2od 146. 67
American, pr. lb. 4c 5
Herrings, pr.bbl.
Hides, raw pr. lb.
Hops 27
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 15
Indigo, French lb. idzee\d 33
Carolina 40c ic
Irons, fad pr. ton, 33
f Castings pr. cwt
j Bar pr.ton,
<2 4 P'g 24d 26d 67*
: Sheet *73^33'
tNai' * 90.
v Wa«. us 96.
ank, pr. cwt. $d $d
t-ard, hogs pr. lb. 9c ioc
Lead in pigs pr.c. 5^67*:
in bars jd
Lead, white iodiod6yc
red 6d 40c 6d 67 c
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 17c 20c
Lignum vitae pr. ton, §d 60c 6d
Logwood
Mace pr. lb. 7^33f 67c
Mackarcl, bell pr. bbl. 9d
■ -ft cond quality 6d 67c
Madder, best pr. lb. t6c 20c
Marble,wrought, pr.f.
Mart spars 33c 67c
Molasses pr.gall. 44c 50c
Mustard per. lb. 87^
Mahogany pr. foot, 10c
Nails, \od\?.d and 20d 10c
Nutmegs pr. lb,
' Lin feed, pr. gall, 50C54C
Olive 87c
Ditto pr. cafe, 2d 50c
, Best sweet in ) .
flafks,pr.box 10
® | —baflcets 12 bottles $d
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
I Train 24c i*;e
L Whale 22c 28c
Porter pr. cask, gd 33 c
London,pr.doz. id6oc
Porter, American } ,
pr.doz. bot.incl. \
Ry the Pujl-Ojficc Acl, after the farjl of June next, neufpapers
Jent by the mail are fubjed to poflage'of one cent each paper, for
,00 miles carnage, or lef—and for all tiflavcel more thai an hundred
miles, one cent and an half each paper. The poflage to be paid by the
Subscribers, at the office where the papers are delivered. As it
is optional with Subscribers to receive the.r papers through the medium
of the PoflOfhce, or to ctntrall with the Stage Proprietors, the patrons
of this Cautte,u;ll please tojigmfy thrmgh ahat medium they will
ckufi to receipt their papers.
Raisins, best, pr. keg ~,d
Ditto pr.jar 3^
Ditto pr. box 4<l
Rice pr. cwt. "id 67c
Rosin pr. bbl.
f Jamaica pr. gall. 112 c
I Antigua iooc
J Windward 86c 90c
i Barbadoes 77c
L Country, N. E. 67c
Salt petrc, pr. cwt.
Saffafras pr. ton 6d Sd
Shot 140 d
j pr.lb. gc
W j English, blistered cwtiotf
y American pr. ton ;
</5 ( Crowley's pr. fag 10d6yc
Snake root pr. Ib. 2cc 42c
Soap, Brown 6c
White 8c
Castile 11c
Starch y C
Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4d $d 60c
Spermaceti, rffined, 48c
Sailcloth, English,") .
No 1. jvr yard, J 28£
Boston, No. I. 30c
No. 11. 29c
Russia sheeting, pr.p. 12d
C Lump, pr. lb 22c
{ Loaf, Tingle refined 25c
<} Ditto, double do. 36c
Zz | Havannah, white 17c 18c
<*> } Ditto, brown, Isc
I Mufco.pr.cwt,
SpirifsTurpentine p. g. 33C37C
u s Allum pr. bu(h.24C27C
} Liverpool 29c
< 23c 24c
QLifbon 25c 27c
Shipbuild. W. 0.l , ,
frame? j 12 J^33
'p- , .
>0. J. O. 15d 33 c i6d6yc
30. red cedar, p. f. 40c
Shingles, fh. p. M. 2d33c 2d 67
Do. long dreCTed
Scantling,heart, 23^33
Sap 8d 8d 67^
f Pipe pr. 1000 2gd
2 J W. O. hogshead jg</ 33c
> R. O. do. igd 50c
< I Leogan
K Barrel io d
LHcading z6d 6jc
T Ouer, best pr. pie. qd6yc
Minks .._2OC4OC
Fox.grey ' 40c Boc
-red id 20c
Martins 24c id
« Filhers 33c 67c
M Bears '3,/
Racoons 27c 60c
Musk-rats jic2oc
I Beaver, pr. lb. 67c id 33c
l_ Deei, in hair 2cc 30c
"ar,N. Jersey, 24gal.p. bbl. id
-Carolina, 32 gall.
i rpentioe pr. bbl. id 67c 2d
. (" James R. best 3d 6o« 73c
*-S inferior 2d6yc 3d
o old 4d 67c
™ Rappahannock 2d 50c 3d
o J Colo.Maryland $d33c id
O Dark arf 40c
Long-leaf 2</40c
C 3 Eastern-shore 2d 2d 93c
0 I Carolina, new 2d yc 3d
H L old do.
( Hyson pi. lb. 93c id 28c
• I Hyson flcin, s3 r 67c
Tar,
—C
Tun
w-s Souchong, 5 0C 93c
(_ | Congo, 43c s oc
L Bohca, 30c 34c
Tallow, refined gc
Tin pr. box, , 3 d 33c 67c
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 47{ 5 3c
Vermillion J^33fn4s7f
Varnilb, 33c qj c
J" Madeira, pr. p. io6dzoor'
I » r- w r m
Lilbon g6diood
TenerifFe, pr. gal. 51C60C
w Fa Y al 44 c 49 c
2 Port pr. p. \c6d6"jc ltod
Do. in bottles.pr. doz.
r " Claret 6d
Sherry pr.gall, goc\d2oc
Malaga 77c 80c
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25c 27c
Whale-bone,longpr.lb. 13C30C
-id 8d
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
95 days 3} pr.ct. under par.
60 days > par.
30 aays J) pr.ct. above par
Anfterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 37 i c
90 days 3 6jc
Government bills, drawn al 10
Cays per 11 guilders, 44c
Fr?ncc, 60 davs 80c
JUST ARRIVED,
In the S'aip Molly, Captain Pitt, from Lisbon-,
A FEW pipes and quarter-calks of LISBON WINE, far
superior in quality to what is generally imported
And a few bales of the very belt CORKS,
TO BE SOLD BY
George Meade,
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
Choice three and five years old Bill of Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or quarter-cask.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five year: old, by the
pipe or quarter-cask.
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-cslk.
MESS BEEF, of a superior quality, and fuel as is fit for
an Ealt-India voyage, put up in this city.
Choich firft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto second ditto do.
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that courtry.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the Hrft quality, and
114. Hhds. FLAX-SEED. &c. Sec.
Philadelphia, May 1792
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf enti-ely to the
PURCHASE AND SALE of STOCKS ON COMMISSION 1 ,
Begs leave to offer his services to his friends and othrrs, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may p'.eafe to fav«r him with
their bufmefs, may depend upon having it tranfa&ed vith the ut
most fidelity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of jhe
United States will be ftri&ly attended to.
LEONARD BLELCKER.
May 2.
Artl L 8% 17Q2.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the firft day of Jul) ensuing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; confining 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, whi:h may be
watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, map be made
very good meadow at an easy expeoce. The upland ays in the
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marih, from which (>y an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence j 30 acres of wooiland. A
never failing, dream of water runs through this trafi, or which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with tie net and
hook ; plenty of rabbits and small game; and on the fats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good manGon-h>ufe, gar
den, and necelTary out-buil4ings; an orchard of the bet kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherrv trees, bearing; a crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop patting in. Apply to
Peter Le Barbie* Do Plessis, Esq. No. 86, Chefout-ftreet,
Philadelphia; Mr. Humphrey Waterman, at the Wafliing
ton, on the Briflol road; or to Doctor Tomb, at (felhamany
Ferry, Bucks County. The purchaser, paying one thrd of the
price down, may have a term of years to pay the refidie, paying
interest. May 5. (ep.tf.
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repiiring ehe
Proteftanf Episcopal Church in the city of New-B unfwick,
agrrrable to an ast of the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey,
palled November 1791.
SCHEME.
t
1
2
5
10
30
9°
1 &75
Prize of 2000
1000
s°®
200
1814 Prizes.
Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Drills.
This Lottery iscompoledof 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a deduSion of twelve anil an ka)J per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lotterv vet
offered to the public—and it being ot such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with tile mod
liberal support.
The drawing will positively commence on the second Monday
in July, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of
New-Brunfwick, under the infpeflion of Col. John Baya d, Pre
sident of fa id city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the eity o't Am.
boy; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufafluring Society of New-Jersey.
Tickcis to be had ot the following pelfons, who are d«ly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given fccurity for tlie
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he publifhrd, and the
prizes paid immediatelv after the drawing of the Lottery
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, C Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,) °
N. B. Those piizes which arc not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confidercd as a i-enerous
donation to the Church.
%* Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per month for their money. To accommodate
all those who may he disposed to purchase Tickets, letters direa.
Ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Postmaster, at New-Brunfwick
and enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for'
warded on receipt of such letters.
New-Brunfwick, April 20, 1792
TO BE SOLD,
T H AT la : gC - clf S' nt and HOUSE, in which the
■i subscriber now live», situate in Elizabeth-Town, in the ftatc
of New.Jer.cv, wuhin 16 miles of the city of New-York It is
finilhed in the very best manner, and peculiarly convenient for a
gentleman with a l,rge family. The Lot contains about four
acres of land—the Garden is large, well laid out, and flocked
with a good assortment of fruit. For further particulars, enquire
If \V A " BR , ADro «».Efq. in Phikdelphia, John Pin tard,
L,q. in New-York, or the Subscriber, on the Premiss.
May 2, ("W3W) ELIAS BOUDINOT.
(£3" WANTED, the First Volume of the Gazette of the
United States—for which Si kDo .lars will be paid In
ihc Editor. * '
456
Dollars is
2000
1000
1000
1000
1000
>500
1800
6700
100
5°
20
4
16000
NEW TEAS.
SOUCHONG,
New vll ""P^ 13 " 00 from Canton. ,i,
isew-York, by retail at
No , 9 ,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streetj.
Bank of the United States.
R ESOLVED. That the Stockholder, be/ % !nd h.Vbv I?9''1 ?9 ''
IV thorifed to compleat their Shares by payment at anvV"
B7 I , per ' ods rc <! ul " d by the law ot incorporation '
Resolved, That each Share so comDleated nTali 1- •i ,
draw a dividend of the profits of the BanK.ftom and affile fi'ft
Share. fue « edi °6 ■ e day of compleatui, fth
I I n f t l . V . ed ' T hat fomuch °f the quarter', interest upon the Pub
lie Debt transferred to compleat any Share as aforefaiJ hall
' CCrued c b ;'° re ' hf si, ? d '> r °' lhe moruh facccect ine th*
completion of such Share, shall be received bv the Bank ard n= J
to the persons w' n o lhall have transferred the fame ' P
By order of the PreGdent and DireSors
(ep " ftj > JOHN KEAN, ajkin.
Bank of the United States,
( e P9')
P ESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the thirdly.
XV ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each fhate of
the Ban* of the Lnited State., may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of discount and depofn j and that transfers of
public debt on account of Inch payment, may be made on the
books of the Treasury of the United States, or in the office of any
of the Commimoners of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfer, to be deposited in the office in which the specie
proportion of such payment (hall be made.
Resolved, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious to the firft days of July and January of each year.
By Order, JOHN KEAN, Cafhi'er
At a meeting of the Diiectoks of the Bank oi
THE United States, Mauch 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Discount and Deposit be
authorised to receive of Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock of the Bank, and
that the Cafhiets of the said oifices give duplicate receipisforfuch
payments, one of which receipts, Iccompanied with evidence ot a
transfer of public debt fufficient to complete said-(hares, upon be
ing produced at the Bank, [hall entitle fach Stockholders to ccr.
tificates for full O.ares, and to all the benefits of the Resolutions
of the Board of Directors pasTed the 21ft instant, relative 10 com
pleting (hares by paymentat any time before the periods requi-tj
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the President & DireSors, JOHN' KEAN. lt
Twenty Dollars Rewire
RUN AWAY from the fubferiber, on Monday . cur
rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROBIN, • 55 v sos age,
stout made, and bred a farmer ; oneof his thunbs much fv filed;
is 5 feet 6 inches high ; had on when he went away a purple
coloured cloth coat, a Ihort linen coat, a pairo* f* r
a ruffled shirt. an old beaver hat, with fhoes,ftockingsand buckles,
all good. Also, a young NEGRO SOY named SAM, is 19
years of age, stout and well nrade, 5 feet 9 inches high, roach
marked with the small-pox ; had on when he went away, a bi?
blue coat, a brown short coat, overalls of a mix cloti .1. :d
(lockings, z new wool hat, new shoes and buckle — V .00 r
will secure said Negroes in any gaol, or bring t .0 to - sub
scriber, £hall receive the above reward, and all reasonable cfc*
paid- ALEXANDER ROBERTSON.
Morris-Town, April 17,1792.
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of tfot
value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com
miflioners of the Federal Buildings, to the perfoo who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, shall produce to them the mofl ap
proved PL AN, if adopted bythem, for a PRESIDENT'sHOCSE,
to be ere&ed in this £itv. The fiteof the building, if the artist
will attend to it, will of course influence the afpeft and outline of
his plan ; and it'* destination will point out to him the number,
size, and distribution of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of it may be detached and
erected for the present, with the appearance of a complete whole,
and be capable of admitting the additional paits, in future, if they
(hall be wanting. Drawings will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front,and fe&ions through the building, in such
dire&ion* as may be neceflary to explain the internal ftru&ure ;
and an estimate of the cubic feet of brick-work composing the
whole wafs of the walla.
March 14, 1792
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
OF a LOT in this Citv, to be designated by impartial judgfs,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; ora MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party ; will be given by the Commis
sioners of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July, 1792, shall produce to them the most ap
proved PLAN, if adopted by them, for a CAPITOL, tobe erected
in this City ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
(hall adopt, The building to be of brick, and to contain thefol
owing apartments, to wit:
v ~ r r, ) fufficient to ac-1
V Conference Room ( commodate3oo | these room
Room for the Reprefeotat.ve. persons cach . 1 to be o
A Lobby or Antichamber to the latter
A Senate Room of 1200 square feet area I t ,on »
An Ahtichamber or Lobby to the last J .
1 2 Rooms of 600 square feet area each, for Committee Rooms an
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Drawings will be expefled of the ground plais, elevations 0
each front, and fc&ions through the building in such di«c<-tion
as may be necefTary to explain the internal ftrufture; and ane 1
mate of the cubic feet of brick-work composing the whole ma
of the walls.
March 14, \ 792.
Tickets in the new-brunswick lottery, arc t»
be had at the following placcs, viz.—Samuel
Ferry; at Burlington, of R. Pierfon, Esq. Bordentown, of M •
John Van £mburgh ; Mount Holly, of J. Read, ,e " 0 •
of John Singer, Esq. Am boy. of James Parker. I-' " e
Town, of R.Gray; Powles Hook, of Col. nd of
Hunt; Cranburv. of William Throckmorton SpoT>M9od ;
the Managers in Brunfwick. __
%T The -fOURNALofthc TH/HD SESSIONof tit-SE^ T£
of the UNITED STATES, may be hiiof the Eiitcr htreoj.
THE COMMISSIONERS.
If THE COMMISSIONERS.
1