I
(No. i, of Vol^
Wm. CLE LAND,
•■X
BOSTON,
Tranfafts business in the Funds of thi Uhitert
States;
SANK STOCK, BILLS ot' EXCH ANGE, &c.
ftjT Orden from New-York, Philadelphia, »r
any otHer part of the Union, will be attended to
■with Diligence and Punctuality.
June 1
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS,
THr, man who pays refpeft to the opinions of
others, as he will »f hp is confeious he is under
their eye, will follow virtue. In like manner
people should keep an eve on government.
It is a kind of moral check which keeps base and
turbulent paflions down. A well informed peo
ple, as every free one should be made, will form
a kind of confctence for government which will
often guide and always awe then* rulers Theft
is a consequence of raising the body of the citizens
bv establishing schools and making the means of
education general that has not been noticed, tho
it deserves confederation. The admimftration of
a country cannot become very piofligale and cor
rupt unless the body of the citizens are in a great
degree degraded by ignorance. An enlightened
public will find means to give authority to their
opinion of men and measures ; bad men in pow
er may despise the clamours of a London or Paris
mob — but the rrfle&ed indignation of a wi(V peo
ple like the blast of heaven will penetrate the
walls of brass that seem to defend them. The
fleady light thrown on villainy will be irre/iftible,
for molt great crimes agamft a public can exist on
iy in darkness. Knowledge evidently tends to
purifv morals ir- private life, why not in public ?
A remarkable proof that it does so, appears from
the great reformation of the private lives of prin
ces in modern times. Modern Europe would
Tiot, tol®ratc the m mfters whose cnormitie? pol
lute the page of ancient history.—Probably the af
fairs of Ame'ica have been managed with as much
purity a» thp»fe of any country whatever ; the fu
■perior knowledge of the people is a principal
cause.—As t be ete&'ons are free, and Tince the new
government the conduct of rulers having become
more public and intereftin?, we may cxpeft tq
continue :o enjoy the two following advantages—
that men of bad private characters will not be
chosen, and that the public eve will keep them
from at Je«ift very flagrant violations of duty. The
newspapers indeed throw out such insinuations a
£ainft Congress. But the state of knowledge in
ihe country refutes them. It is not very credible
that men of such known base and corrupt princi
ples as they impute co Congrels should have been
freely ele£led,at leafl not a majority of luch men ;
and if members of Congress were not woife than
men are usually found, it is strange that they should
since have become so shamelessly abandoned as
they are represented.
The intention of these remarks however, is to
evince the advantage of establishing schools, and
•providing for the general information of the ci
tizens ; we seem to think we are true sons of li
berty, and that in our day there is fafety. The
danger after v- e leave the stage will be less than it
is at present, if we take ca>e that our childrrn
ih ill be wiser than we ourselves are. It is a mif
fortune that those who have knowledge are fatis
fied with the polTellion or thev are too lew, and
their influence too much refiftfd and fufpefted by
the multitude to give to this firft republican duty
that preponderance which is necelTary to its being
obfrrved. Enough is not thought, nor said, nor
done about providing free schools. The fubjeft
aftords many important points of view which it
would require some labor to prefrnt diftinftly-
The moral, the political uses of learning, how much
it advances human happtnefs and exalts human na-
ture are topics which the benevolent mind de
lights to contemplate. Another class of men
would be more influenced by our shewing that an
ignorant people earn less than those who are well
informed—that the spirit of enterprise, the inven
tive faculties ol the mind acquire new force and
a&ivitv with the latter, especially as the spirit of
imitation and a lively emulation will be so evident
ly incited. there a man who doubts that the
94 letters are a inoreufeful invention than the dis
covery of a new continent.-^And yet while w<-
push our enquiries to find out the figure and hifto
ryof the earth with a curiofuy 'bat grows mort
ardent while we indulge it, how large a part ol
mankind are yet to rereive the advantages of the
invention of letters ? Learning,like the polar day,
gleams in twiliglil only over a small part of tin
horizon ; while ignorance seems even yet to be
condensing her fogs and to browd like chaos ovei
an iniperfeft world : And even we who enjoy tho
twilight fuffVr the children ol the poor to rema;,
with the film on their «ycs, and to grope thei
way through life in the dark. Education removes
'hat film. Men of sense and virtue you who pof
,r s prope.ty or power, begin this work ; establish
schools, make the uiflru&ion of youth
charge and the care of government, and you will
not have lived in va«n. PHILO.
THOSE equal laws our citizens demand,
]u(lice requites that they should understand ;
From public f.hools, Oiall general knowledgeflow.
For 'tis the people's sacred right— to know ;
One solid ast of public good outweighs,
1 he boads of fcicnce, ?nd ihe hero's praise.
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WtUNr.SDAYS AND SATURDAYS stY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
V-]
CoME, vefair nymphs! who,H'»;e the gilded fly
That flutters hecdlcfs o'er the bendiug gr?fs;
In g'ddy rounds your fleeting moments pjfs—
Come, look, and let lol't (orrow fill your eye.
See where fwrct El a, robb'd of balmy breath,
From parents, life and her companions torn,
Ciopi like the rose-bud opening to the mom,
Extended lies upon the bed of death.
{epim & 1 atczm)
She once was beautiful and young as you,
As fpiightly too (he rang'd the airy round,
In dance fantaOic o'er th' enamelM ground,
And tho't her gidd> pleasure was the true.
She wak'd the sleeping echoes from iheir springs,
With songs delightful to the lift'ning ear,
As warbling founds that fill the trembling air,
When Zephyr plays amid ft the Eolian firings.
No {ecret fear of danger (hook her mind ;
But light, and fporiive as the playful breeze
That winds in Spring aroundthe bloHom'd trees,
Her minutes flew, nor left a sting behind.
'Till the hot fever burning in her veins,
Reuiift tyrant with hi 6 hundred j
tongues.
To telJ her of her nn-rcpcntcd wrongs
ind picrce her fliuter'd heart with goading pains.
Then, like the lily rising on the vale,
Whofecupsare fili'd withpearlsof morrrngdew,
Appear'd her pensive eyes of azure blue—
And her young cheeks were like this be»uty, pale.
Deep mournful sighs rose from her troubled foul;
Upon her lifted hand the Client tear
Fell frequent 'till ih' Eternal heatd her pray'r,
And bade her flood of sorrow ceafc to roll.
She felt sweet Hope diffufed ihroug'n her breast,
Her heart no longer ftiuggled with Dofpair ;
Mild Resignation's calm and heav'nlyair
Smil'd on her facc, and spoke her future reft.
True Gratitude now touch'd her tender mind,
And oft in Client rapture would she raifc
Her snowy hands, and her Creator praise,
In speaking looks, of a seraphic kind.
Her fair companions would she call around,
And bid them turn from folly's flow'ry way,
Left thev, like her, should wander far astray.
And lose themfclve* io pleafmc's f;u»y ground.
Just when the Holy Angels hover'd near,
To bear her spirit to the good on high,
Saturday, June 2, 1 79 2 -
Far the GAZPTtf »f the UNITED STATES.
THE DEATH OF ELA.
And place her 'midst the muftc of the flcy,
She warbled founds that Saints might wish tohear.
41 My blooming frirnds adore the God of Love,
" 'Tis he alone is worthy of your care ;
*' By early piety your fouls prepare
" To meet the glories of eternal Jove."
4{ The song of peace salutes my raptur'd ears,
" My filler Spirits call my foul away—
" I fly—l mount into the realms of day,
'* Where sorrows end, and music fills the spheres."
Dear Maid ! when rested in thy lonely cave,
Tho' thy pale cheeks shall be of worms the prey,
And thy fair form shall mould to dust away,
Yet lhall new honors bloom above thy grave.
Eaeh vernal (low'r upon thy grafTy bed,
With brilliant colors tin&ur'd trom the (kv,
In beauty's chai ms shall catch the traveller's eye,
And bend to ev'ry breeze its lovely head.
Thy pensive Vinvela shall muting gaxe,
And while she fees (hose brauties waging there,
Her glift'ning eye (hall drof> a tender tear,
And frequent sighs exprefsher Eia's praise.
STORY OF THE EVERLASTING TAPER
AN EXTRACT — FROM THE FORESTERS*
"\TOW I have spoken of madam's taper, per
i_\| haps you will be amused with some accuunt
of it. It is a wax candle of a common size, set in
an old fafhioned iilver candlestick, richly embofled
and gilt, but the ru(l and dud of it are so sacred,
that it is never permitted to be fcourc.i. The tra
dition is, that thi« candlestick formerly belonged
to Sr. Peter, and the candle firft placed in it is fup
pol'ed to have been lighted at the sun, and by a
mysterious kind of uninterruptedJ'ucccJjion> has been
kept burning ever fw'ce. Bv the light of this ta
per, old madam reads her bible and books of de
votion, which always lie on a table by her bedside.
" Some perform of an incredulous turn of mind,
have pretended to call in queftiori this mystery ;
hut ; t is still lie!d sacred by the old lady» and by
noft of Mr. Bull's own family. There are forne
even among the forefters of the fame opinion ; and
such is the liberality in these families, that no one
is molcfted in the indulgence of any innocent
whim, which does not affed the peace of the fa
milies, nor the inieicft of the partnerftiip. It was
not long after the re-eftab J ithment of harmony be
tween them and Mr. Bui! % that these persons sent
two candles in one lantern, and one in another, to
be this venerable taper, and dipt in the
consecrated waters. Two of them were afluallv
lighted in old Madam Bull's prelence, and to her
great fatisfa&ion. The other was lighted at a ta
per supposed to be derived from the fame original,
but " hid under a bu(hel ,s in one of sister Peg's
out-houfes, it not being permitted to burn public
ly in her family, where the only candles allowed
are ot the manufa&ure of Geneva.
* This int'rejiing work is publi/ked zvith the privi
lege of Copy dig/it, and wjU probably be for JULr in this
city in a feu days. WeJhall not theref ore untuipate,
by publi/ning any further extra fir.
+ Anrrican Bishops.
1
11 There has been long a controversy between
different opirnonills on this fubjett, as between
the in Liliput, about breaking ihe egg ai
the big or little end. But it is eafv enough to ac
commodate the matter by granting that S'.. Pewr's
candle, as well as those from Geneva, were ongi- j
nally lighted at the hun ; that the fame source o!j
light i> open to all; and that it is ot no confluence
of whflt materials tapers are made, nor in wh»tj
"kind of candlesticks they are placed, nor by whose
hands they are lighied, provided they givefo dear
a light as to answer the purposes of ti/ton."
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
March 33, 1792.
The proportion refpefling a further ajfumption of thc\
State Debts under eonjiicration.
MR. CLARK, on the further alTumption, ob
served, that he supposed every man had
made up his mind on this fubjeft, and that there
fore a lengthy debate would be precluded. He
fnould vote again ft it-—lf it had not been for
the alTumption, we should not have been saddled
with the excise, and a great number of officers.
He knew of no advantage which had refultec;
from the great encreafe of the debt—it had gone
into the hands of foreigners—and for it we had
got little more than a parcel of gewgaws, tooth
picks, and other baubles. Our lands bad not
been improved, nor had any other advantage
that he knew of resulted from it. The residue
of the state debts was not so great, but that the
states could easily provide for it.
Mr. WilUamfon said he considered the propo
sition as founded on so unequal principles, as it
particularly refpefts North-Carolina, that he
lhoul# find himfelf obliged to fay NO to it.
Mr. Giles said he was entirely principled
against the aiTumption. The measure originat
ed altogether with the Secretary of the Trea
sury—and his report contained all the reasons
which he had heard urged in favor of it. He
then entered into a consideration of the effects
of the funding system generally—one was, to
draw the public wealth from the remote parti
of the union to the feat of government. Mo
ney, at the time this system was firft in agita
tion, was drawn from the bank, to accommodate
persons who meant to,and did speculate in state
paper in the distant parts of the union, where it
was extremely low. A system therefore which
has had this effect, ought not to be ftrengthenecl
by adding to itthe means offtillfurtherdraimng
the distant states—the effect may be a tempora
ry relief to some of the distant states, but will
finally operate greatly to their injury.
The next argument he noticed, was that
drawn from the inconvenience of conflicting sys
tems of finance. He thought the prel'ent debt
of the United States was fully equal to the re
sources of the government, and ought not to be
encreafed; for with that encreafe, an encreafe
of burthens is neceflarily iinpofed.—The resour
ces of the general government are said to be not
yet unequivocally secured—he hardly knew what
was meant by this, except it was that the state
governments were not yet fufficiently prostrate.
The mass of debt already on the flioulders
of the United States, he considered as quite fuf
ficient; and to add to it, would be nothing bet
ter than adding to a mass of corruption ; for he
considered the debt in no other light.
VINVELA
The public content, it is faid,will be increas
ed by the measure—he thought di rcctly the re
verse—he anticipated great and increasing dif-j
content*.
The justice of the measure is mentioned—'ie
adverted to the proportions already aflumed on
account of the several states, and (kid it was evi
dent that the most flagrant injustice had been
done, and therefore a further afTumption was
not'ling better than a inanifeft proposition to
perpetuate a fyftein of injustice.
The debt, it is laid, will he purchased by fo
reigner-, if it is not aflumed—he conceived the
reverse idea was the true one, and experience
fan&ioned his fuopofjtion.
Additional taxes, it is said in the report, will
not be necefTary—he thought the report was in
confident with itfelf, as was evident by a sub
sequent remark contained in it. At any rate
he Oiould think himfelf acting an unjuftifiable
part in aifuming a debt when he knew not what
resources were contemplated to pay it.
He was therefore in favor of postponing the|
fubjefr to the time when the sense of the people
could be more fully afcertaincd by a larger re
presentation in that house.
Mr. Smith said, the gentleman lias refered to
the reasons contained in the last report of the
Secretary—"vherear, his reasons are more fully
stated in hi; firft report; to which he wifiied
gentlemen would recur. TiiS gentleman from
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
[Whole No. 525. I
New-Jerfcy (Mr. Clark) has observe '. that he
supposes every gentleman has made up his inind,
ind yet he goes on to date his obje6i ins to the
meafare. He hoped the gentleman would not
jbjeft to other persons giving their reasons why
they are iufavor of it, or of anfv/ering his ob
jections. He then noticed Mr.Clark's remarks
efpefting the excise. The excise, Mr. Smith
Paid, was not the result of the aiTuniptior—it
was firft thought of for the debt of the United
states, and was diverted from this debt, on
account of the impod being taken from the
dates. It has been laid that some of the didant
dates are opposed to a farther affumptior. T r.
answer to this, he said fo:ne of the didant dates
were in favor of it—he indanced Sonth-Caro
lina, the legislature of which had expressly in
dru&ed their representatives to advocate it—
He infilled that the reasoning of the Secretary
was conc'ufive, in refpeft to the loss the dates
would incur by reason of the speculations of fo
reigners. The debt is due, and mud be provid
ed for. Foreigners consider this government as
in honed government; and putting confidence
n tW jultice, will purchase the debt.
He further observed, that a great saving
would be made by a further aflumption—it
would reduce the interest from 7 to about 4k
ier cent.
The debt is ajuft debt, and has as good preten
tions as that already provided for—and therefore
the gentleman is mistaken in faying that a far
ther afiumption would be founded in injultice——
lie gentleman fays if the debts are notalfumed,
foreigners will not buy them—the gentleman
<urely does not mean that the debt (hall never
He paid; but his reasoning goes to that. The
gentleman calls the public debt a mass of cor
ruption—if the debt is a mass of corruption, it
is better to confine it to as narrow limits as pos
sible.
Having eftablirtied the principle of aflump
tion, it remains that the government £hou\l
'■ompleat the fyltem ; otherwise a manifeft in
justice will take plate, by creating a diftinflion
between creditors exaftlv similarly circumstan
ced in the firft place, and whose demands are
.irecifely the fame with thole provided for.
A surplus has been alTumed in some of the
states, in rm'O'onenrc of the as to
the sum already assumed.
These fabfcriptions are in a very awkv/ard
lituation indeed.
He next noticed Mr. Giles's obfervatiorns as
toapoftponement, and his reasoning arising from
i deficiency of funds; there was no di fiici. Tv on
the ftibjetft of funds, said he, when the frontiers
were under consideration, nor when the ge ntle
,nan urged paying off the national debt.
With refpeft to pointing out the am® .Irrt of
the funds necefTarv—this, he observed, would
be premature, till the amount to be provided
for was known.
Mr. B. Bourne observed, that t'lough it was
fuppoled that objections would be made to the
proposition, it was hardly to be expected that
they would be made by gentlemen from states
whose debts have already been completely as->
fumed—He then adverted to the lituation of
thole states who had yet a large debt to pay—
and expatiated on the nature of fio'e debts,
and urged the absolute neceflity and juflice of
a further assumption. If, said be, the meafurd
ivas unjust at firft, which does not appear, it is
nw a measure of ftrift justice and found policy
—The state of Rhode-Island had not had any
thing like justice done to her in the former af
rumption—Her debt amounts to one fiftietjl of
the whole debt assumed, whereas (he has only a
one hundred and seventieth part provided for—
the injustice of this partial provision was so flar
";rant, that he hoped it would not be continued
by rejecting the proposition.
Mr. Clark added some further remarks—H«
was for a settlement of the accounts before any
further steps were taken in afluming.
Mr. Baldwin said he had always been opposed
to the allumption, and on that principle Ihould
oppose proceeding any further in the business—
He stated certain objections against the general
government's extending their legiilation to ob
jedts which are not contemplated in the organi
zation of the government—An inequality of
burthens is the inevitable consequence, as no
'ecnrity for an honest apportionment of taxes oa
so general a fcale,from the nature of the govern
ment can be expected.
Mr. Baldwins' fpeecri appeared to be def.gned
to impress this idea, that a previous ascertain-
nent of tha bona fide debt of the refpeftive
States lliou'd precede any assumption.
Mr. Smith (3. C.) replied generally to Mr.
Baldwin.
Mr. Mercer. Language has changed, ptftj
lie debt is no longer corfidered as a public blessing,
'jut as a public curse—and this ientiinent per
vades this House ; What is the nature of th«
pre ft: lit proposition ? why it is to assume the
debt of the several States—and thus we are to
s;o on afluming as long as any debt; exist in any
of the State".
There never was a larger sluice to overflow
the public with the burthen of an enormous
debt, than that contained in the proposition.
He confidercd it as holding out a temptation to
originate anew, claims which have been alrea
dy funk : A frcond and third finite, said lie, is"
opened i;i th" deferred and irredeemable qualifyci the other part of the debt; and when he eon
fidered that there was no express provision to
prevent the creditors from demanding aninter
eft for the delay of payment; he conlidered that
the foundation of a public debt to all eternity.
He adverted to tiie different expenses of the
leveral States—there wad no companion could
be formed between them ; in Soiith-Ca
Judge has 8-531. a year—ll Virginia )I:1
currency, flc drew in referee- fro'V; -
States which have made exertion? to pay e.i
their debts are now called on to pay thole of
States which made no exertions whatever. He
enlarged on- the conduct of the State of Ma
ryland in particular. He said the measure of the
aflumption was odious in Maryland a> founded
in injustice. The States are by this meafui'e
made pensioners to the general government.
Mr. BarnweJl supported tha proportion for a
further aifiurtption—and in an animated man
ner descanted on the merits, services and facri
fices of the States which are now so great fuf
ferers by reason of their exertions during the
war.
STOCK H O L M.
'The King (/"Sweden's Steech, on
closing the Diet. February 23.
" on the opening of the
VV Diet, which I ain this day so
happy as to close, I told you, that at
a time when an unbridled licemiouf
nefs was (halting or overturning go
vernments, I was not afraid to con
voke you—l confided in your attach
ments to me, and the noble manner
of thinking of the nation, for con
ducing in peace and tranquility, the
important affairs which occasioned
your being convoked. My hopes
have not been deceived ; and after
having (hewn in war, that you are the
lame people whose courage in former
times alternately (hook or fortified
thrones, you now give to your cotein
poraries an example dill more noble,
of the vigorous prudence and union
with which a wife and enlightened
people condu<ft their deliberations,
when the head of the (late- calls for
their advice on important affairs.
This example is so much the more
grand, that you are the only people
■who give it ; that by doing so, you
juftify the confidence which I repos
ed in you ; and by this mutual union,
you fortify the internal peace and
strength of your country, at the fame
time that you augment that consider
ation abroad, which your courage
has so justly meritted.
" If, as the firft citizen, as lie in
■whose contemplation the good of the
ftatc and yours are inoft intimately
connected, I ought'in the name of
our country to express to you a de
gree of gratitude worthy of you and
of me ; how sensibly must my heart
be a Rented by tha attachment and the
Jove, which during the fitting of this
Diet, you have teftified for 'me and
my son ! How much, in his young
breast, must be fortified that regard
for, and confidence in a generous peo
ple, who from his infancy gave him
such proofs of attachment. You have
seen him attending to your inftruifti
ons ; and under my guidance inftrurt
ing himfelf to fulfil the important
duty to which providence may one
day call him. I wished to accustom
him early to bulinefs, and to teach
him to etteem a people whom he is
to govern, to love their laws and re
fpecft their liberty. In exprefiing
your wishes to fee my son soon in
crease the family, and thus give the
necefl'ary ftrengthand security to the
fucceliion to the throne, you have
participated my paternal hopes. Such
a sentiment must afluredly add to my
gratitude, if my heart were not al
ready full.
" You are now to return to your
homes to re fame your occupations in
peace, anfTto (hare with your fellow
citizens the fatislaifiion of having*
contributed to the public good and
the maintenance of the state. I am
to watch over the happiness of our
country and of yours. I (hall endea
vour to encourage agriculture, and
commerce r. to maintain the facrcd
liefs of the laws, the execution of jus
tice, and the respect due to religion.
In fliort, I am to apply myfelf to all
the cares which iliy duty and my fix
ation require of me, but which the
love and the gratitude with which
your attachment so sensibly affetffc my
heart require in a still greater degree.
These duties, which never cease
f ° r a moment, which occupy the whole
Of life, become more easy when thev
are executed for a beloved people'-
iupport is then derived from a true
Zeal, from a sense of honor, and Hill!
more from the fatisfa&ion of doing
every thing 111 my power to prove my,
gratitude, and preserve in your hearti;,
.the ientimeuta with which you leav<f
this place. 1
" It is with these sentiments that
I (his day dole the Diet ; it will be
with the fame sentiments that I lhall
again receive you before the throne,
when our con. in on interell may re
quire that you be convoked."
The
Feb. 24. Some individuals having
taken the liberty to censure the Ad
liiiniltraiion of the finances of Swe
den, &■ fomeof iheir writings breath
ing too great a degree of licentious
ness, his Majelly on the 9th inlt. pro
hibited the printing or publishing,
during the course of the Diet then
aflelnbled, of any thing respecting
the sub jeel of the deliberations of the
said Diet.
The King took every precaution
to fecui e an exatft conformity to his
wishes in the Diet, by procuring the
appointment of a secret-committee to
prepare the several branches of busi
ness for difcullion ; and to prevent
any disputes that might arise from
being generally known, by prohibit
ing ihe publication ofany account of
the proceedings.
Notwithstanding these precautions
it has transpired, that fevera] of his
propohtions have been warmly op
posed in the secret committee ; and
one, for continuing the fame mem
bers on this committee during the
whole feflion, absolutely rejecfled by
the Diet.
The following is said to be the slate
of parties for the king. In opposition.
Clergy 34 I 2
Citizens 71 19
Peasants 120 30
Nobles 42 360
The King has coiifequently a ma
jority in three of the orders, and al
nioft the whole of the fourth against
him. But while rhe nobles coTitend<'
only for the restoration of their own
privileges, and overbearing influence
in the government, there is no dan
ger of their being joined by either
of the other orders, to whom t he pow
er exercised by the Senate was much
more formidable than the preroga
tive of the King,
A few days ago arrived at Gefte,
M. de Bouille, son of the Marquis de'
Bouille, and the Marquis deTfchudi,
a Swiss officer of great diltintfion \
they came on a deputation from the
French Princes.
COPENHAGEN, March 20
The remarkable ordinance, where
by all Danifl) fubje<fts are entirely
prohibited to carry on the Have trade
after the year 1802, really made its
appearance on the 16th inft. Den
mark consequently is the firft coun
try in Europe which hath hereby set
so humane a precedent.
ROME, March 10
At Neapolis, the mountain Vefuvi.
us exhibits to the numerous strangers
who are there at present, the awful
scene of a new eruption.
VIENNA, March 10,
His Majesty king Francis has dif
niiffed Prince Kaunitz from his coun
cil, and has chosen general Lafcy and
count Colloredo for his ministers
friends to the party of the French
Princes.
PARI S, March 19
The new house guard of the King
began on the t6th inft. to do duty in
the rhuilleries. They fir 11 took the
civic oath and the oath of office by a
grand committee, which was admi
nittered to them by the Mayor, M.
I'ethion, before the Hotel de Ville
during which time the colours were
flying and the usual tunes of ca ira,
The * tllen "'arched to
the rhuilleries, moved off before the
King and Queen, and cried in a cho
rus, Vive u Roi ! long live the King.
1 he Queen shewed the Dauphin to
the people from the balcony, but thev
remained mute, no vivat to be heard.
The Jacobine club raises its head
again, and draws the attention of the
whole kingdom. All the members
or this club appear with a newlv in
vented red liberty cap, and even their
weekly president, Mr. Thuriot, who
is a member of the National Mem
bly, adorns himfeif therewith.
2
National jfffembly, March 24.
The number of volunteers for com
pleting the troops of the line being
greater than is wanted, the minister
at war was ordered to give an account
of the deficiencies of tlie several re
giments, and the return of recruits
from the several departments.
The discussion on the colonies was
resumed, and after an able speech
from M. Vaublanc, the propofiiion of
M. Genfon 11 e, with fume amendments,
was adopted, and decreed unanimous
ly, to the following :
" The National Aflembly recog
nizes and declares, that tne people of
colour and the free negroes ought to
enjoy the rights of active citizens, in
he fame manner as the whites."
Letter from the Kino
" Gentlemen,
" Deeply affeifted by (lie troubles
that agitate the kingdom, I have ne
glected none of the means in my pow
er to put an end to them. 1 had cho
sen for my principal agents, men re
commended by public opinion. 1
have replaced them by others distin
guished by their public opinions.—
You have often repeated to that
this was the only means of eltablifli
ing perfeift harmony between the two
powers. J baften to yield to the wifli
of the Aflembly, in order to refute
the suspicions which the enemies of
tire public good endeavor to excite a
gaitift the purity of my intentions.
I therefore inform you, that I have
appointed M. Roland de la Platiere,
to the place of minitter for the home
department, and M. Claviere to that
of the minHter for the public contri
butions. When that of the minister
of justice, to which 1 appointed a ci
tizen, who has refufed to rccept of it,
(hall be filled, 1 will inform the As
sembly. (Signed) LOUIS."
SINGULAR PETITION
Abftratfts of a number of petitions
were read, amonglt which was one
from Madame Grandval, a mother,
without being a wife, praying the
Aflembly to pals a lawtoenable chil
dren, not born in wedlock, to inherit
the property of their parents. In
support of this prayer, she referred
to the ancient laws of the Franks,and
the cultoms of various other nations,
both ancient and modern. Her peti
tion was warmly applauded, and re
ferred to the committee of legifiation.
March 27. M. Guiraut announced
to the a trembly the difcoveryofa ma
chine, to which he gave the title of
a Logofcope, which would be a regu
lator of the voice, and would serve to
diretft the aflembly in moments of
tumult and disorder. He received
the honor of the fitting.
March 28. The generous condutfi
of the Earl of Effingham, as governor
of Jamaica, and of the United States
of America, in regard to St. Domin
go, had long ago engaged the afl'em
bly to pass votes of thanks, which
the old ministers had not transmitted.
A new order was made tor transmit
ting them lorthwith.
L O N DON, March 31
The Swiss Canton o{ Berne decid
ed by a majority of 134 voices to 6,
that the jegimeiit of Ernest (hall be
recalled from the service France.
Apt it 1. It is the duty of every
member of parliament before he votes
011 Mr. Wilberforce's approaching
motion to abolish the slave trade, o
recollect — that as the abolition of it
is avowed to be a mealure not of po
licy but humanity—not of advantage
but judice— not of expedience but ex
periment ; the legislature ought 10
be fully fatisfied that the claim ofhu
manity and jullice is well founded ;
that the experiment proinifes success,
and that the interest and strength of
the nation are not hazarded in a vain
pursuit of unattainable j:urity and
perfection.
Our peaceable friends, who from a
delicacy of conscience abltain from
the use of sugar, certainly are in the
right, as it is some atonement for the
unintended mifchief they have com
mitted in tncdling with politics so far
as relates to the Slave trade, as it is
called ; it has already contributed to
raise its price exorbitantly ; and
fiiould the legislature consent to abo
lifii it, the fame effccT: may en foe in
our islands as at St. Domingo. Thus
will the white man's blood be spilt
to save even a little perljiiiation of
the negro, « I ich th c v en ■ sri
ft.le the » blood of.he' 1 J
Oh tl.e lauve principl. thev",! ; oB Sa
not touch money, or hive
verfpoon or cotton -J»
articles being produced bv r " " '!%
means.
. 4p rU 3- The King of Sweden I
ing fncceeded in the otjecisf urwl
he convened Ins Dier, hIS llo[ ,
ungrateful to rhole who wereil
inlli iiuientnl to promote his M e »/'
lome them he has railed to new ( [j
"H.es, and others he has <lcc» i;ile J
with orders of knighthood.
The temperate determination 0 r *
the Hotife ol Commons, that the
trade fliall he gradually aboliihe/
bids f iir to gratify all j a tits, '
A furprifmg cnre f or a con (; rme( j
cancer is said to have beendifcoveve:
by a farmer in Yorkfliire i kco> .
in a fticceliive application of lecciies
to the parts alfeifted, which fucce-d!
Ed when the knife had been tried to
no purpose.
Dr. I'riettly, as one of the'fofferers
by the late riots at Birmingham, at.
tended the Warwick assizes, to prove
liis claims on the county for indent,
nification. As soon as the populace
of Warwick were apprized of bis ar
nival, they collected, and nfed him
in the moll indignant manner—Hones
and dire were thrown at him, and no
thing that resentment could dictate,
was unaflayed to mortify and dlHreli
him.
Mr. RyTand's atfion for damage?
in the late riot at Birmingham, came
on before Mr. Baron Thonipfon, on
Thtn fday latt, at Warwick, the trial
commenced at ir o'clock and contin
ued till 2 the next morning. The
damages were laid at 30001, from
which the Jury, who severely scruti
nized every article of the demand,
took 700'.
The aftonifliing advance on
funds, is rapidly follo'wed by
of the United States of America,
there is dill a very great
between the prices of them. 0«r :
three per centr. consols are rifeiiw
94, whilst the American three fir
cent, flock is as yet no higher this
7J —a very efleutial difference t# iff
pcrfons lr»4rig-nj>+He inter eft ei&hiii 1
n>oney in the funds. 7he
ference in the real value of thet**,'
is a trifling charge on the America#
funds of commiflion, for remirtiiij
and paying it here; but the cheip'
ness of the American makes a 4arft
addition of above 24 per cent, to lite
income of thole who fell out efon*
fund to invert their money in the<*
ther, with the advantage of a great
increase of their capital in a short
rime, it being certain that the Ame
rican 3 per cents mull rife, until they
are to the fame price as others.
Mr. Layton,of the Borough, lately
entertained two hundred friends in
a new tub. It was made for Mr.
Menx, the brewer ; the dimenljons
are, circumference 180 feet—height
21 ditto—contents io,oco barrels
weight of iron 15 cwt.—tonnage 14
tons—number of fta*es 263, aJJ heart
of oak.—lt takes 33 barrels to raiie
the level one inch. The colt is about
3,0001. ! Layton gavefecurity ot
2,0001. to indemnify Mr. Meux f r £j"
any loss that may be sustained within
Ihe fir ft: twelve months. On a hde
table in the tub, was a china punch
bowl, on a mahogany stand, Wll
wheels,which contained twenty-level*
gallons and a half.
A L BANY, May 24;
It is with pleasure we can inform
our readers, that a hwd of hemp, **
rived in this city, on Tuesday UK,
which was raised at the south end o
Cayuga Lake, near the PennfyN"# 1 *
line, and was brought by wat ® r , a
the way from thence to Schenecta y
—This we believe is the fit ft instance
of any produce, raised on that beau
tiful lake, being brought to our mar
ket
H A RTFORD, May aB.
The following gentlemen are cli"-
fen by the freemen, to (land in nomi
nation for election in OiSober nt* >
as Representatives in Congtels, *iz-
Jonathan Trumbull, James "
house, Jonathan Stur ? es, J er ' ml .
Wadfworth, Amafa Learned, bf",'
min Huntington,Stephen M.Nnchc .
Tapping Reeve, Jonathan l"fi e ' '
After Miller. Uriah Tracy, ® n ° L
phauiah Swifr, Esquires.
ilie fm;, sCHARLESTON, May 15.
By several gentlemen who arrived
hereon Saturday la(t from the Rock-
Landing, we are informed, that the
utmost harmony fubfiits between the
Creeks and the federal troops ltation
ed at that place ; and that Mr. Sea
.rrove received a letter from General
M'Gillivray, on the day of their de
parture, dating that he had been pre
vented from attending at the Rock-
Landing as early as was intended, by
the high frefhes in the Oakmulgee :
but that he would be there in a few
days, with 1 joo Creeks, in order to
carry into full effect the treaty with
the United States.
WINDSOR, (Ver.) May ij
FEMALE HEROISM.
The wife of Mr. Nathan Weft, of
Verfhire, in this state, having occasi
on to go into a pasture near her house,
in order to bring home her sheep, to
secure them from the ravages ot wild
beafU, spied a large Bear in full pur
suit after one of the Lambs of her
flock—Upon which she immediately
called to her favorite dog for allilt
ance. The faithful animal, ever alert
at the calls of his mistress, obeyed
the command, and eagerly leaped off
to secure from deftruiftion the inno
cent bleating vidiim. He immedi
ately engaged with the bear, and
threw him upon the ground —ill
■which situation he held him, until
his mistress, with that degree of for
titude and resolution not peculiar to
lier sex, came up—wben, grasping
with one hand a leg of the bear, and
with the other, a club, (he made such
application of the latter to his pate,
as almost instantaneously put a flop
t9 all further appetite or inclination
in hiin for inutton food.—The period
will perhaps arrive when the above
will be considered as fabulous —
<l We think our fathers fools, so wife we grow—
" Our wiser sons no doubt will think us so."
PITTSBURGH, May 26
Extrafl of a letter from Ensign Murphy,
of the jlate levies, dated Read's flatt
en, May 22
" This morning about fun-rife
deed's block-lioufe was attacked by
he Indians, ami one Gasper Redick
ind a child of Jojin Harbefon's kill
ed, and Harbefon's wife and two chil
dren taken prisoners. and one of the
levies wounded : This news I receiv
ed about,4o'clock, and immediately
let off for this place, with n men;
since my arrival here I am informed
that John Currie's house is burnt and
his cattle killed, and a Mr. Milieu's
honfe, up Pnckety, was seen on fire.
The number of Indians is said to be
about forty."
Two men, a friendly Indian and a
Nivhite man, who had come express
frtfoi fort Franklin, and were on their
re*rn on Wednesday last, about 12
jniles from this place, on the path
leading to that garrison, discovered
three Indians—they immediately re
turned to this place and gave the in
formation, when Major Smith order
ed out a party of 40 soldiers, and a
finall party of volunteers from ahis
town, went in pnrfuit of them. Nei
ther of the parties had returned when
this paper was put to press.
BALTIMORE, May 29
" Few fubjedts have ever received
a greater share of public notice than
the Excise upon ardent Spirits,
laid by Congress in March, I 79 1 —t-
The fubjecft has been viewed in every
way, since December, I 790, when the
bill was moved in the House of Ile
prefematives.—lt 13 a full proof of
the fafety of the ineafure, and of the
wholefomenefs of the tax, that no one
Member of the Senate or Representa
tive Body thought fit to move for the
repeal of the law, when the lubjecft
was reconsidered by Congress this
spring.—This is never the cafe with
a bad or dangercns law, and not al
ways with a good one—So univerlal a
enfeofthe goodness of a nitajure,
and so many 1 edtic r tions of the rate of
duty on the home spirits and dills,
the in ere ast of the duty on foreign rum
and spirits, and so many alterations
ill the manner of collecting it, can
not, therefore, but produce that ac
quiescence in the law,-which every
good and prudent citizen owes to the
atfts of the Reprefen:atives he has
helped freely and fairly tochoofe."
Philadelphia, June 2.
The Governor of New-York, by proclamation,
offers a reward of FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS
to any perlon or perions who ihail apprehend and
deliver John Rycr, charged with murdering Mr.
J.Shith, Deputy Sheriff, to the keeper of the
common gaol ot the county of Weftchefter, so that
he may be brought to jultice.
At a convention of the fevrral towns and plan
tations in the counties of York, Cumberland, and
Lincoln, on the firft ult. affemblcd to r the purpose
of coufttlting on the expediency of the propoled
separation ot the Diftrift of Maine, from the
Commonwealth of Muffachufctts, into a feparatc
government—the votes were. Yeas 1401 —Nays
*335-
The late Emperor Leopold was born, on the
;th May, 1747, and by his Empress Maria Louisa,
nfanta of Spain > who was born May 24, 1745}
lad 11 children.
The grand juries of London and Middiefex,
have prefenied Lottery Insurance offices as a great
nuisance.
The General Assembly of Conne&icut have pas
sed an ast for cftabli filing a Turnpike on the road
between New-London and Norwich.
By a decreeof the National Assembly the cft«tes
of the emigrants are to be taxed to the full amount
of the expences they have brought upon thenation.
This Summer, being the periodica) return of the
Locusts we may expert swarms of those devour
ing infects, they appearing verv numerous in the
ground already. [M Jerfcy Jour.~\
Monday last the President of the United States
arrived in town from Virginia.
The Hon. Trtstram Dalton, is appointed
Cashier of the Mint of the United States.
Further accounts from Virginia, fay, that
th» representations refpe&itig the infurre&ions
of the negroes in the eastern parts of that State
have been exaggerated.
Major-General Anthony Wayne, commander
in chief, set out from this city 011 Thursday last,
to join the army to the westward.
Thursday arrived thefhip Harmony, Captain |
Afhmead, after a passage of four months from '
Calcutta. This fliip brings the latest accounts j
of the operations of the British arms in India,
to Jan. 19th, but it does not appear that any j
thing deciiive had occurred, the time having
been chiefly fpcnt in preparations for the siege '
of Seringapatam, the fall of which is predicted :
in very sanguine terms by the news-writers of
the English Asiatic papers.
In the ftiip Harmony, from Madras and Cal
cutta, came paliengers,
Mr. Glasfurd, and
Mr. Smith, of Calcutta,
Mr. Worflev, of Boston,
Mr. Mark Pringle, and
Capt. Bell, of Philadelphia.
111 the ship Grange, Captain Roberts, arrived
here Thursday afternoon from Liverpool, were
pafTengers,
Mr. George Efkrigg,
Mr. Dod, surgeon,
Mr. Huffey,
Mrs.GGibbe t, and two cliildren,
Mrs. Marfer, and child,
Mr. Shaw, and Mrs. Shaw.
The Asiatic papers received by the Harmony?
ftatc—That Lord Cornwallis has a magazine
within 40 miles of Tippoo's capital—That the
battering cannon was ordered from Bangalore,
and every thing was expected to be in readiness
for the siege of Seringapatam by the 20th Jan.
the redu&ion of which was looked on as a mat
ter ot courfe—Tiiat the camp is supplied with
every article of life, and the troops are in the
highest spirits.
On the 28th December, one of Tippoo's prin
cipal detachments was defeated—the General
who commanded, ten guns, with the elephants,
and all the camp equipage, were taken—Tip
poo is represented as opprelTed by the dreary
profpeft before him—his collected force only
23,000 men, with which he intends to give bat
tie to the Englifli and their allies—but the idea
is ridiculed by tile Englilh paragraphifts, who
seem to have forgot, if they ever heard the pro
verb of the Bear's Skin.
The French aflignats have depreciated—but
not so much as even the National debt of Great-
Britain, during the late war, although this debt
drew an interest of 4 per cent, to the holder,
which is not the cafe of the present money of
France. The new ordinance, securing and
confirming the rights of citizens to the people of
colour in tie French Weft-India Islands, is an
event which will probably be productive of hap
py effects. There has been a compleat revo
lution in the Cabinet of France, and the Patri
ots have now a perfect ascendency ; the Minis
ters being all of them of that party. A decree
ha; pafled the AlFembly permitting the return
of the absentees, on certain conditions.
F-xtracl of a letter from Majfachufetts, May 24.
" I oblerve under the article of European
news, that the death of the Emperor Leopold
is mentioned ; this may be a providential event
in favor of the French revolution ; and if Ca
tharine is not quiet, (he may be sent after Leo
pold. It seems by these European accounts
that France is not so well established in the new
government as we wilh—l hope and trust how
ever that it will Ihortly be confirmed, and so
I improved as to be a light to the world.
" Healta is a gene'al blessing in this quarter,
and the season is fine and fiourilhing."
Tranjlatior of a Utter from a gentleman in Neu>-Or-
Itani to kif friend in this city, dated April 25M.
The prt sent profprrous situation of our colony
makes us fnrgu the misfortunes we experienced
when this ciiy ftiffercd by fire. His Lordship,
rhe Baron de Caronilelet, our new Governor, uses
"very endeavor to encourage commerce, the arts,
.ind agriculture. Indian, tobacco, rice, and cot
lon art ut\hau!lablt foiirces of wealth. To these
3
we lhall soon be ab'e to add—sugar plantations
from this place to Balise. as veil as at Bara
ta R.I a and cn the plantation aux Boeufs. It
is even talked of to tllablifh them in Florida, the
foil ol which is low, warm and moist, and conse
quently very fit for the culture of the sugar cane.
We have already near this city a distillery which
affords us excellent rum : and whoever under
takes to ellablifh others, will receive confiderabie
I encouragement from government.
Our governor is erc£ting fortifications for the
protection of this capital, which is to be surround
ed by a deep ditch. A canal is to unite the Mii-
UHippi with Bayon St. jean. This work will
rend« r the country more healthy by carrying off
the water. We boast ot a new rope
yard which manufactures a confidrrable quantity
of hemp. Pitch, tar, marts, wood for (hip build
ing, See. add also to our wealth.
The boats lately from the Illinois country bring
agreeable intelligence from that quarter. The
lead mines have produced twice as much as the
preceding years. New fak-pus are opened. The
culture of wheat, Indian corn, flax and hemp in
creases. Linen and cotton cloths, cider, beer,
wine, peach brandy, See. are made there. Belter
tanyards are much wanted. An iron mine is a
! bout to be worked.
The Baron de Carondelet sent orders with the
newveommander of St. Louis of the Illinois, that
trade (hould be free with all the Indian tribes o*
the MilTouri and in the north ; in order to extend
our fur trade as far as pollible.
This information has put us in such fpiritsthat
we have determined to ere£t a theatre and ball
room. It is almost completed. It would lead
me too far to enumerate the reforms and improve
ments that are made here : It will fuffice to tell
you, that refpeftable and enlightened merchants
have been appointed consular Judges ; that sons
are ereCting to put the colony in a relpettable situ-
Jtion ; that Mic lets and other legular troops
arearriving; and in one word, that tranquility
union and harmony have begun their reign in this
country.
INVALIDS
Whoever has attended the Circuit Courts of the
United States the present term, mull have been af
fected at the many obje£b who presented them
fclves as candidates for pensions.—To fee the lame
and emaciated war-worn Soldier—the decriped
and almost naked seaman—the bed years of whose
life had been spent in the ferviceof his country—
humbly supplicating the scanty morsel to save him
from perifhtng, was a light which atFe&ed every
benevolent and generous heart present : while the
'emotions of the foul were agitated with the re
jcital of
• —" Mofl difajlroui chances,
14 Of moving accidents by flood and field,
Of hair-breadth th* imminent deadly breach
14 Of being taken by the inhuman foe y
14 And fold to Jlavery—and of redemption thence
But the attention of the Hon. Judges was com
mensurate with the neceflities of the wretched who
applied—and we are happy to announce, among
other fuccefsful applicants, the name of Old Com
modore Manly—whole intrepid valour, and
limel) services, were celebrated by his country
men, in the " times which tried men's Jouls." He
has obtained a pen (ion of half pay lor lite [3 odols.
per monthJ and arrearages of 500 dollars.
Columbian Centinel.
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
The people of the United States are in pofleffion
of a government of their own choice —adminiiter-
ed by men of their own choice ; at the head of
whom is a name above all praise : These men
have been repeatedly the peoples' choice —and the
meafuresthey haveadopted have railed their coun
try from contempt to glory ; these measures
have proved that the authors were worthy of the
confidence of the people who chose them—for these
measures have excited the opposition of a junio,
who will never be easy while this country is
happy.
But what are we told, and what do the Gazettes
fay, echo and re-echo through the union ? 44 That
poverty in the country, luxury in the capitals, cor
ruption and usurpation in the national councils.
National stock-jobbing, monarchy-jobbing, bank
jobbing and anftocracy-jobbing," are the blclfed
effe&s of placing the administration of our affairs
in the hands of a Congress chosen by the people,
and in the hands of such men as George Wash
ington, John Adams, Thomas J e fferson,
Alexander Hamilton, Henry Knox, &c.
&c. For public and private virtue, what are
these men, compared to those who are now ma
ligning the government ?
Many persons indulge themselves in a strange
way of talking about perpetual laws. The word
perpetual is always used instead of standing
laws, as if it was ufeful to frighten us with the
found. Laws regulating property, fliould be as
liable aspollible. The manner of holding, trans
ferring and inheriting it, cannot be changed,
without some injury, and Hill more alarm.—
As a republican government is founded on com
pa&, aud on the inviolable nature of right, its
adminiftration,if it be wife and honest, will give
perfect security to property. Indeed, a man
cannot be said toenjoy property, if he entertains
the fear of its being invaded in his hands.
Died on the 25th ult. Capt. Matthew
Be nnet, in the 51 ft year of hisage. He was an
officer in the late Continental army, was taken pri- j
foner at for t Waflnington, and endured a tedious j
captivity on Loug-Ifland. Several years he resi
ded in Kerituckey ; from whence lie returned a!
few months ago, intending to spend the remaindei 1
of his days in this city :—thofe days, alas! arej
numbered, and were very few! From full health
and b£Hvity, he was almost instantly changed to a
lifelefs corpse. As a man, he was brave and hu
mane : as a neighbor, he was friendly and sincere :
as a parent, and a husband, he was most kind ana
dffe&ionate. While his near connexions lament
the loss of one so very dear to them, his brother
soldiers will drop a tear of fympaihy ; and all who
know his fate wi!! reflect, for a moment, on tht
uncertainty of life.
(£3* Volunteer Company of Artillery is
desired to meet at the State Hour on Monday next,
the 4th iaft, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon,
JEREMIAH FISHER, Captain,
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVALS at the PORT 0/ PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Harmony, Athmead, Calcutta & Madras
Grange, Roberts, Liverpool
Brig Carman, De Ootta, Oporto
Bom Fim, Rozt, do.
Kitty, M'Aliiter, Bjrbadoej
Sophia, Price, Virginia
Plantei, Poo'.e,
Schooner Two Sift- rs, Smith,
Tryal, Venneman,
Jenny, Hcriheld,
Fricndfhip, Welsh,
Friend (hip, » >gcrs,
Peggy, Starky,
Friend (hip, Kitchcn,
Sloop Betley, Dunn,
Harriot, Havens,
N. Y. & Phil. Packet,
Two Brothers, Hill,
The ship fearing, Capt. Tingey, of Philadelphia,
failed :rom Calcutta about ten days before the Har
mony,"Capt Aihmead—(he was bound to Oftend,
and from thence to Philadelphia.
Capt. Roberts, of the (hip Grange, 7 weeks (rom
Liverpool, on the 9th April, spoke the brig Nep
tune, Captain White, irom WifcafTet, bound to
Whitehaven; (he had loft her rudder, and one
man overboard, and was out 73 days. Capt. Ro
berts fupplitd her with a puncheon of water —the
island of Toree bearing S. W. distant 5 leagues.
On the 17th May, in lat. 40. 12. long. 63. 26.
spoke the ship Fanny, from Virginia, bound to
Greenock ; out 5 days—and,
On the 27th of May, in lat. 39. 13. long. 72. 30.
spoke the schooner George, ot St. Juhn's, and the
Hoop Sanu Margaretta, of New-Yoik, both trofri
Ncw-Y 01k.
PRICE Of STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Indents, 1 - > J 4
Final Settlements, *8/6
Halt ihares Bank U. S. 52 per cent, premium.
Shares Bank North-America, 15 ditto.
Post-Off ic t, Philadelphia, June 1.
£3" LETTERS for the British Packet Portland,
Captain Rogers, for Falmouth, will be received at
this office until Tucfdav morn-ng the sth instant.
It is with regret that the Editor is obliged to
pojlpone the enlargement of the Gazette to theJtze he had
in contemplation.—OJ the very Urge amount due for
arrearages, but a very incon fider able sum has been re
ceived Jmce the intimation of a dejign to enlarge—
but though the size oj the paper is the fame as hereto-
the contents are encreajed.
THE following fechons of the ast entitled,
" An act for raising a further sum of money
'or the protection of the frontiers, and for
other purposes therein mentioned, are repub
lifhed for the information of all persons, who,
on the 29th day of June next ( 179 2 ) ffi a " be
I pofiefTed of
WINES.
" Se<ft. 10. A ND be it further enacted, That
£\. all Wines which after the said
last day of June next, (hall be imported into the
United States, lhall be landed under the care of
the inspector of the port where the fame (hall be
landed, and for that purpose, every permit for
landing any Wines, which lhall be granted by a
Collettor, (hall, prior to such landing, be pro
duced to the said infpe&or, whft, by endoriement
thereupon under his hand, (hall fignify the pro
duction thereof to him, and the time when, af
ter which, and not otherwise, on pain of forfei
ture, it lhall be lawful to land the said Wines.
And the said infpeftor (hall make an entry of
all such permits, and of the contents thereof, and
each pipe, butt, hoglhead, calk, cafe, box or
package whatsoever, containing such Wines,
lhall be marked by the officer under whose im
mediate infpeftion the fame lhall be landed, in
legible and durable cbara&ers, with progressive
numbers, the name of the said officer, and the
quality or kind of Wine as herein before enu
merated and diftinguilhed. And the said officer
lhall grant a certificate for each such pipe, butt,
hoglhead, calk, cafe, box or package, fpecifying
therein the name or narrtes of the importer or
importers, the (hip or velTel in which the fame
(hall have been imported, and the number there
of, to accompany the fame wheresoever it (hall
be sent. And if any pipe, butt, hoglhead, calk,
cafe, box or package, containing Wine, ffyall be
found without such marks and certificates, the
fame lhall be liable to be seized, and the want of
such marks and certificates lhall be presumptive
evidence, that such Wine was unlawfully im
ported and landed."
" Sect. 11. And be it further enacted, .Thai
every person, who lhall have in his or her pop
feffion, Wiues which are intended for sale, in
quantity exceeding one hundred and fifty gal- :
lons, (hall prior to the said last day of June next,
make entry thereof in writing at some office of
inspection in the city, town or county where he
or lhe (hall reside, fpecifying and describing the
ca(ks, cases, boxes and other packages contain
ing the fame, and the kinds, qualities and quan
tities thereof, and where, and in whose pofieflion
they are ; and the officer of infpe&ion, at whose
office such entry may be made, (hall, as soon as
may be thereafter, visit and inipeft, or caule t®
be visited and infpetted, the Wines so reported,
and lhall mark, or cause to be marked, the calks,
cases, boxes and packages containing the fame,
with progressive numbers, with the name of the
person to whom the fame may belong, the kind
or kindi thereof, and words " Old Stock," and
lhall grant a certificate for each calk, cafe, box.
or package containing such Wine, describing
therein the said calk, cafe, box or package, and
the Wines therein contained, which certificate
lhall accompany the fame, wherever it may be
sent. And if any person who may have Wines
in his or her pofleffion for sale, (hall not, prior to
the said last dayof June next,makeentry there
of, as above directed, he or (he, for fuchfomiffiou
or neglect, (hall forfeit and pay the value of the
Wine omitted to be entered, to be recovered
with colts of suit, for the benefit of any person
who lhall give information thereof, and 'the
Wines so omitted to be entered, (hall be for
feited." iept29)
Cape-Francois.
Hifpaniola
St. Thomas
North-Carolina
Charleston
New-York
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
Montferatt.
Bird,
22 [6
>3_/4
»a/9JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Molly, Captain Pitt, from Ltibon,
A FEW pipes and quarter-calks of LISBON WINE, far
superior in quality to what is generally imported
And a few bales of the very best CORKS,
George MEADE,
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
Choice three and five years old Bill of Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or <j?arter-cafk.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-cask.
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-cafe.
MESS BEEF, of a superior quality, and luch as is fit for
an Ealt-India voyage, put up in this city.
Choich firft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto second ditto do.
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that country.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the firft quality, and
Jl4 Hhch. FLAX-SEED. he. &rc.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1792
NEW TEAS,
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very fir ft quality, and latest importation from Canton, via
New-York, by retail, at
No 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
Stat e-St rje et, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind of the Stocks of the United States, on
Commiflion, by Private Contract, and Public Auction.—
Those gentlemen who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
Bolton r March, 1792. (»a w 3"i)
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC.)
T,HE SUBSCRIBER HATH OPENED A
House of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES,
Xn that commodious House lately occupied by Thomaj Beale, Esq.
Mayor of this Town.
He has furnilhed himfelf with a (lock of the bed Liquors, and
■will use every exertion to give fatisfaflion by procuring, in their
ftaCali, the bed of every species of provision, and having the fame
served up in the most neat and elegant manner.
[lawiftjul.] GEORGE H. LEIGH.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-llreet, New-York,
TKE Subscriber' intending to confine himfelf entirely to the
PURCHASE and SALE OF STOCKS ON COMMISSION,
Begs leave to offer hu services to his friends and others, in the
line of 3 Stock Broker. Those who may pleafc to favor him wiih
their business, may depend upon having it tranfa&ed with the ut
inoft fidelity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia Bofion, or any other part of the
United States will be ilridlly attended to.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
May 2
_ April 27, 1702.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the firft day of Jidy ensuing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY firuated, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 209
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy expence. The upland lays in the
Ja,p of about 5 o acres of rich out marfl), from which (by an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence ; 30 acres of woodland A
never failing stream of water runs through this tract, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook ; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun.
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good mansion-house, gar.
den, and nectffary out-buildings; an orchard o! the best kind! of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees, bearing; a crop of wheat and
xyein the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to
«!m E j R , L u E - B4RBIER Du No. 86, Chelru.-ftrect,
Philadelphia; Mr. Humphrey Waterman, at the Wafhinc
ton, on the Bristol road ; or to Doctor Tomb, at Nelhamany
Ferry, Bucks Count) . The purchaser, paying one third ol the
price down, may have a term of years to pay the residue, pavins
May,;. (cp.tf.) PY 6
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
TTAVE jull now opened their Lead-War e hovsi, i wo doors
' oul n of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New Faftoiv
■where they have now made, and ready for lale. a general assort
mem of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD the
production ol the Mines in Virginia. As they have einpl.yed a
number of experienced Engl,fh workmen, they wa, rant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufafiure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrelTed to either of the
fcontft notice"' " a " d •«
N. B. Wanted, indubious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
MinK'where confta.u employ g.„d wages, and other encoura Ke
meni.s will be given, means of conveyance being provided and
honfes for then reception. 8 r ' and
For further particulars enquire of MelTrs. Moses Aust. v A
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above & C °-
Philadelphia. December 3, 1791.
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY f,om thr subs. riber. on Monday the qlh cnr
rent, a NEGRO MAN' named ROBIN' is « vearfof a
h°X'sVncEc l'"h a f 'T e ' ; nnCHf his much fwru//-
coloured cloth cniiS'fcort Tnen co"- p™' VrV P " rP ' e
l;;f a l A A old r hat, w ;,h moo' ftoc"k,n? an n d bTkl"'
»11 good Also, a young NEGRO BOY named SAM is ,o
SSS»Ss3tS?.Zft.'f' "" h " "' !h: ™
«. . „ pox , nad on v.hen nc went await •«
TLU-T*™, ROBERTSON"
TO BE SOLD BY
THIS DAY a't publijhed by ANdrf.w Crown, and Jold by the
principal BouhtelUrs in the city of Philadelphia,
T H £
UN I TED STATES OP AMERICA,
PASSED ATiTHE LAST SESSION OF CONGRESS:
COLLATIO WITH, AND CORRECTED BY THE ORIGINAL
ROLLS IN THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE
Price One Quarter of a Dollar.
THE ACTS of this felliou, agrcertbly to the plan of this edi
tion of the laws of the United States, will be considered as th®
mrst part of the second volume; so that the a£ts of each
Congress (the duration of which is limited by the conltuuiion to
Ihe term of two years) will becomprifed in one volume.
To the a6ls of this feflion will be annexed the ratifications of
the amendments to the Constitution ; the confederation between
the United States and the Delaware nation of Indians ; the treaty
between the United States and the Wyandot, Delaware, Ottawa,
Chippewa, I'attawatimi and Sac Nations; the treaty between
the United States and the Cherokee Nation; and the armistice,
declaring a cessation of hostilities between the United States and
Great-Britain: Thcfe, with those in the firft volume of the laws
are all the existing treaties.
A copious index will accompany the feeond volume—when
completed,at the end of the next session of Congress.
" As it is desirable that copies of the laws should be so multi
plied throughout the States, and in such cheap forms,as that every
citizen of the United States may be able to procure them," it has
been thought advifeable, in this.addition, to omit the signatures
of the President of the United States, the Prelident of the Senate,
and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Their signa
tures would have increased the fi*e of the volume, and eonfequrnt
ly have rendered it more expensive, without adding to its ufefuf
nefs or authenticity, inasmuch as the Secretaryof State's certificaie
is to be prefixed to the volume.
(<W)
This edition of the Laws of the United States is aJfo to be So/d by
Messrs. Thomas and Andrews, Bojlon ; John Carter, Esq. Providence,
Rhode- IJland ; Meffrt, Hudson and Goodwin, Hartford ; Mr. Thomas
Green/easy New-York ; Messrs. Goddard and Ange'l, Baltimore ; Au
gujiine Davis, l[q. Richmond, and Mr. W. / J . Young, Charfeflcn,
South-Carolina.
Bank of the United States,
May 8, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the third pay
ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each (hare of
the Bank of the United States, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of discount and deposit; and that transfers of
public debt on account of Inch payment, may be made on the
books ot the Treasury of the United States, or in the office of any
of the Commiflioners of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be deposited in the office in which the specie
proportion of such payment (hall be made.
Resolved, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious to the firft days of July and January of each year.
By Order, JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
At a meeting of the Directors of the Bank ot
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Discount and Deposit be
authorised to receive ot Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock of the Bank, and
that the Cafhiets of the said offices give duplicate receiptsfor such
payments, oneof which receipts,accompanied with evidence of a
transfer of public debt fufficient to complete said shares, upon be
ing produced at the Bank, (hall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for full fharrs, and to all the benefits of the Resolutions
of the Board of Dire£ors palled the 21ft instant, relative to com
pleting (hares by payment at any time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the President & Directors, JOHN KEAN % Cafhier,
A LOTTERY,
TO raiie the furn of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing ehe
Prottftant Episcopal Church in the city of New-B»unfwick,
agrreable to an ast of the JLegifhture of the Siatc of New-Jerfcy,
palled November 1791.
l Prize of 2000
1
2
5
10
30
90
1675
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks,
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls,
to ™ ™is Lottery '* coropofed of 5334 Tickets. not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a deduaion ol twelve and an half her
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery vet
ottered to the public— and it being ot such evident utility, thai it
cannot be doubled but the undertaking will meet wi.h the most
liberal support.
1 ne drawing will positively commence on the second Mondav
in July, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of
New-Br unfwick, under the infpeflion ol Col. John BayarJ p re
fident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayo, of,he city of Am.
boy; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Via
nufatturing Society ot New-Jerfty.
Tickets to be had ol the following peifons, who are duly aD
pointed Manageis, are under oath, and have given fccurity for the
faithful perlormance ot their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he publiftied and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lotteiv
JOHN PARKER, )
ER KEENON, C Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
J,',h J P" Z / S u wV ; Kh arcn °' within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be conftdered as a generous
donation to the Church. generous
V Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per month for their money. To accomm date
ed to°P K may m d ' fp ° fcd P u,chare Tlckt ->s, letters d,.e£U
A , Keendn . Manager, and Poltmafter, at New-Brunfwick
*nd enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets 0/
warded on rece.pt of such letters.
New-Brunfwick, April 20, 1792.
T'CKETS .n the NEW-BRUNSWICK LOTTERY, are .o
i. be h.d at the following places, viz....Samuel Coope,',
lohV K U, K ng T\°/ R ' P, " IOn ' "q. Bo,den,own, ot Mr
John Van fcmburgh ; Mount Hollv, ot J. Read, Esq. Trenton
of John Singer, Elq. Amboy, of James Pa, ker, Ef q 9
lown, of R.Gray; Powles-Hook, of Col. Smut, and ]~d,.e
Hunt; Cranburyot Will, am Throckmorton Spocfwoud ; «nd of
the Managers in Brunfwick.
C-J WANTED, the First Volume of the Gazettf of the
4
LAWS
OF THE
SCHEME.
Dollars is
10C0
s°®
200
100
5°
20
4
i. A merican museum. -j
h„ H '7> ,78 ':i\ De " mb ? r,7 9 1 ''»»
bound and lettered, fytteen dollars./ I * , <f'?T e * '-.i
This work, which it now conducted cm an rmrinai J' II '
taming the befl pieces publithed for and •ilSeVtel, ' <Sm " '
of government, will he found i Q rtiiiai B at lfaft w iLTi
of pol'tica!, agricultural,and mifcellaneouseffay, ' ,int| lP j
liflu-d in America, perhaps in no one worlt are so pah " '
documents refpedmg the hist->r V of this country ,dLA.J - 1- '
ther. His Excellency the President of rhe United Sir t S '"
clared of it, that " a moreufeful literary plan ha^u..'-j. "*•
dertaken in America, nor one more deferring o7#«!r B,u '*
ragement." The fibfcription i» two dollars and I &¥'■"**'
Gentlemen in the country who wi(h to be (implied
work, are requested lo give commiflion to friendf u, if
fubferibe for and receive it- Any of the back „„„l C > llyJu
be had in orHci to complete sets. nu »Ws m. T
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mjf, MoreC Eir,
Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penningien's Advice,
Lambert's Advice, Swift's Letter to a newly married Li. »fc
Chapnne on command ol Temper, More's Fables for tht>L.i!"'
Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New-York, from fettle-eM « •
the year 1732. To which is annexed, a description of ihe c «'
try, with a (hort account of the inhabitants, their rcli.iou.ilr
political (late, and the constitution of'the coorts of jultice. »
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beattie, l. i n n,
feffof of moral philosophy and logic m the Marifchil CoUt
Aberdeen — Price three-fourths of a dollar. Ot this bool " !
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : " We have frcnnoih,"'
on these subjects more plain, moie perspicuous, or more gn. uIU
ufeful."——N. B. It is introduced into the Univerfrty i„ p ~1,
delphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, British and American, containing felt#
produSion* of the most eminent Britifli and American i*ieti_
Price four-filths of a dollar. " f
6. Blair's Sermons, containing thf whole of the tkrce vpluan
of ihe Britffh edition, in two-i-Pirice two dollars.
J. Nccker'sTreitirfe on (he imponance of Religious Opuionl.
Price four-fifihsof a dollar.
8. Examination of the Observations of Lord Sheffield on Atne.
rican Commerce—Price, on very fine paper, 5 B".hsofa dollar *
9. The Constitutions of the fcveral United States, wiih the fe
deial Conftitulion, &c. Price five-eighths of a dollar.
to. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition la i«mo Price
three-eighths of a dollar.
11. American jell Book, in two parts, with two very neat
graving. —Price, bound, threcfilths of a dollar.
12 Garden of the Soul, by Bilhop Chalenor—Price, bound it
calf and letiered, three quaricrs of a dollar—plain, half 1 dollar.
13 The Doway Tranflaiion of the Vulgate Bible, in quano~>
Price, elegantly bound and lettered, 50/2—plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecum—Price a quarter do.ar.
15. Think well on't, or reflections for every day of the raooth.
Price a quarter dollar.
16. Christian Economy, tranfiated from t Greek minolcript,
found in the island of Pannos, where St. John wrote the Apoca
lypse — Price a fifth of a dollar.
17. Hiitory of Charles Grand ifon, abridged—Pi ice a sixth of a
dollar.
iB. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third qf adoHjr,,
19. S-led Poems, chiefly Atnei lean—F- ice a sixth of a dollav
Said Carey has for faie, a large iifTortnient of Books, Euro
pean as well as American editions, which he willdifpofeof on the
mod icafonable terms. Co<imry gentlemen, whotavor him witr>
commands, may depend upon being; fupphed 10 the most fat
tory manner. A liberal allowance fo-tuch as purcftaL quautiaes
for public libraries, or to fell agjin.
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in New-Jersey, occupied for many vcars paftbv
the fubferiber; containing upwards of £00 acres of lan®, befidej
a tra& of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main ftrect leading from
Trenton to Lamberton. and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly pait bring arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the (aid street on the east, and by the liver ot:
the weft, forms a fquaie; which, from the combined eflfett of filu
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the tnoft
beautiful and desirable feats in the The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-finifhed brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very cxtenfive and pleasing view of
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both (ides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new (tone
coach-house and stables, fufiheient to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ;• adjoining these is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a stone cow-house, upwards of 100 feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved stalls, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, See. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highelt
state of culture, and abounding with a rich colltflion ol the
choicefl fruits of almofl every kind, and several large c.paragus
beds, highly manured At a convenient distance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, wcl -
built, ftcme farm-houfe, accommodated with a largecheefc-room,
spring-house, garden, Sec. a complete ftonc fmoke-hou'f, corn
cribs, waggon-bouse, a capacious ice-house, and every other nc
reffary out-building. The ground is properly divided \n\.oJua
fields, all well watered, highly imptoved, and chiefly urn ' 1 c
mod approved grass. This square has produced annually, or c
veraj years past, upwards of sixty tons .of the belt ha), les
supporting through the summer season twenty to thirty mine
cattle, and eight or ten horses. If contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper tons,
with great plenty of all kinds of fifh usually found in t re 1 watei
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both 0 w ic 1
may afford a pleasing amusement to the fponfman, as wC ' 5 4
convenient addition to the elegance and varirty of his (able. e
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed an divi a
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red ce ar po
and rails of chefnut and white cedar. The purchafcrmay ave
the improved square fepararely, or the whole together, as may
best suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good bund
ing stone on the river snore. The purchase money, if we ecure ,
and the iutereft pun£lua*?y paid, will not be demanded for man*
years. _ . si *
Any peifon desirous of viewing the premises, way be C rat
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, F.fq. o f ,e . ni °j
or Mr. Inallhan, who at present occupies the f aim- ou ean
part of the land—and may know the price on application '
fubferiber, a* No. 213, South Second-ftrcet, opposite to te• . '
Market, in Philadelphia. JOHN - •
2000
1000
1000
1000
1000
1500
1800
6700
16000
TO PF. SOLI? BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold at tn _ ,r * ° ,
Cnred St.tu, <Win g .hr V.,U, C of Gold ...
Cents, frara One to a Thonfanri Pennyweights -accoinne;
Ast of Coogre r *. afcertaming the Standaid and \auc o ">•
books, i
FOR S A L E,
BLOOM SBURY,
W
i
Vi