&nz&U dfffifMtM
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAY, BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 8, of Vol. IV.]
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD (PRICE lOf.)
By HAZARD and ADDOMS,
At the corner of Third & Chefnut Streets,
THE
HISTORY
New-Hampshire,
Vol. 11l
Containing a geographical description of the
—with {ketches of its natural hiltory, pro
duflions, improvements, and present state of fo
'ctety and manners, laws and government.
By Jerem* Belknap, A.M.
$3* This volume compleats the hiilory, and is
inirrefting. Subfcnbcrs arc delired
*0 call for their books.
Wm. cleland,
BOSTON,
Tranfa&s business in the Funds of the United
States;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &c.
gCJ* OrdersfroinNew-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality
'June l
advertisement.
I DO heieby give notice to all persons, not to
credit any person or perlous whatever on my
account, othtrwife in my namej or on my credit,
without special order fioin under my hand au
thorizing the fame, as I am determined not to pay
any debt or debts contratted without such order
being produced.
THOMAS JONES.
Frederick-Town, 7 uw *5* 1 79 2 - ( f 'P4 w )
THE following sections of the ast entitled,
An ast for railing a further sum of money
for the protection of the frontiers, and for
other purposes therein mentioned, are repub
lifhed for the inf""mation of all perfons,who,
on the 29th day of June next (1792) shall be
pofTeUed "WINES.
« io. A ND be it further ena&ed, That
XjL all Wines which after the said
I ast day of June next, shall be imported into the
United States, shall be landed under the care cf
the infpeftor of the port where the fame shall be
landed, and for that purpose, every permit for
landing any Wines, which shall be granted by a
Collector, lhal!, prior to such landing, be pro
duced to the said inipe&or, who, by endorsement
thereupon under his hand, (hall fignify the pro
duction thereof to him, and the time when, af
ter which, and not otherwise, on pain of forfei
ture, it shall be lawful to land the said Wines.
And the said inspector shall make an entry of
all such permits, and of the contents thereof, and
each pipe, butt, hogshead, calk, cafe, box or
package whatsoever, containing such Wines,
Jhall be marked by the officer under whose im
mediate infpe&ion the fame shall be landed, in
legible and durable characters, with progressive
numbers, the name of the said officer, and the
quality or kin'i of \yine as herein before enu
merated and diftinguilhed. And the said officer
shall grant a certificate for each such pipe, butt,
hogshead, cask, cafe, box or package, fpecifving
therein the name or names of the importer or
importers, the ship or veflel in which the fame
shall have been imported, and the number there
of, to accompany the fame wheresoever it shall
be Tent. And if any pipe, butt, hogshead, cask,
cafe, box or package, containing Wine, shall be
found without such marks and certificates, the
fame shall be liable to be seized, and the want of
such marks and certificates shall be presumptive
evidence, that such Wine was unlawfully im
ported and landed."
" Saft. ii. And be it further enacted, That
every person, who (hall have in his or her pos
session, Wiues which are intended for sale, in
quantity exceeding one hundred and fifty gal
lons, fliall prior to the said last day of June next,
make entry thereof in writing at fonie office of
mfpeftion in the city, town or county where he
or she shall reside, fpecifying and describing the
caiks, cases, boxes and other packages contain
ing the fame, and the kinds, qualities and quan
tities thereof, and where, and in whole poffeflion
tfcey are ; and the officer of inspection, at whose
office such entry may be made, fliall, as soon as
may be thereafter, viiit and infpett, or caule to
7)? ted a " nd mf P efted > the Wines so reported,
and lhall mark,or cause to he marked, the casks,
cases, boxes and packages containing the fame,
with progreflive numbers, with the name of the
person to <vhom the fame mav belong, the kind
or kinds thereo.", and words « Old Stock," and
lhall grant a certificate for each cask, cafe, box
or package containing such Wine, describing
therein the said cask, cafe, box or package, and
the Wines therein contained, which certificate
fcall accompany the fame, wherever it may be
lent. And if any person who mav have Wines
h » «■ h«PQffeffion,for sale, shall not,prior to
the said last day of June next, makeentry there
of, as aboveduefted,he or she, for fuchomiffioh
or neglect, forfeit and pay the value of the
•!£ C entered ' t0 be recovered
1. ■ Ult ' for the of a "v Person
who lhall give information thereof, 'and the
so omitted to be entered, fliall be for
(ept29)
RUM AWAY from the fubferiber, living in
Kent County, and State of Maryland, on
Sunday the 2 , uh May last, a NEGRO MAN,
named Hark ; about 40 years of age, about live
teet nine inches high, nas a fear over one of his]
eye-brows, and wheu talking, hangs his head on
one fide, and looks up—had on and took with
him the following cloaths, viz. a fearnought coat,
a black and white kersey coat, cut round, a white
kerley jacket and I'ieeches, two pair of yarn stock
ings, the one pair lately looted, and the other not,
two oznaburgh Hurts, each pieced on one fide,
two pair of tow-linen trowfers, one pair patched
with new tov.'-liiien down the fore parts, and an
old felt hat.
Whoever takes up said Negio, if out of this
State,and secures him in gaol, {hall receive FOUR
TEEN DOLLARS reward—and if taken withir
this State, and secured as aforefaid, (hall receivr
EIGHT DOLLARS reward ; and it brough:
home, reafonablc expences will bep.iid bv
PEREGRINE LETHRBURY
Chtflcr-Toiuvy June 4, 1791. (cp 8w )
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the fubferiber in February
loft, a NEGRO LAD, named PHIL, about
20 years of age; had on when he went away, a
round jacket, a pair homelpun breeches, and a tow
shirt ; the fellow has a yellowish complexion, his
heighth about five feet fix or seven inches, very
square made; has a mark along fide of his nose,,
and one of his insteps has been burnt, which caufcsl
the sinews to draw.
[ep\m ££ iau)2nr)
Whoever takes ur> said Negro, and secures him
in any jail, so that I may get him again, shall re
ceive the above reward, and have all realonable
charges paid. ROBERT PEARCE.
Head June 16, 1792. (*epim)
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
WEDNESDAY, April 25.
In committee of the whole, on the 2d JrMion of the bill
for calling forth the militia.
The amendment providing for the Prdfident's
ifluing a proclamation, tinder consideration.
MR. GOODHUE observed that the amend
ment appeared to him to require lome
amendment; for an inlurre&ion may happen
in a remote part of the union, and all the mif
chief compleated before this proclamation could
reach the spot.
Mr. Fitzfunons oblerved that the proclama
tion could reach the scene of adtion as soon as
the order fVom the President for calling forth
the militia could—therefore the objection ap
plies to other parts of the bill.
Mr. Mercer supported the amendment, on
precedent and by arguments drawn from fadts
and experience.
Mr. Livermore obje&ed generally to any a
mendment to the bill; he doubted whether the
Legislature of the United States had a right to
authorize the President to call forth the militia,
till some real neceflity for the measure should
exist.
Mr. Clark enquired whether the United States
have a right to call on the justices of the peace
to execute the laws of Congress-—is they have
no such right, the amendment so far as it ref
pedts those officers is nugatory.
Mr. White was in favor of the clause gene
rally—but said he had no idea that the general
government had any right to call on the officers
of the particular States to execute the laws of
the Union.
Mr. Gerry adverting to several parts of the
constitution observed, that nothing could be
plainer than this, that the general government
had a right to require the alfiftance >»f the of
ficers of the several State governments; for
they have severally taken an oath to support
the constitution of the United States.
Mr. Kitterra opposed the amendment, be
thought the tendency of it, so far from operat
ing to suppress infurredtions would produce
them in a much grcacer degree. He objected
particularly to that part of the clause which re
quired the proclamations being read in the hear
ing of the infurgent r —he believed it was true
that no advantage had everinfatftrefulted from
the practice,
It W25 then voted to strike out the latter
part of the amendment which refpetts calling
on the justices of the peace or the judges to
read the proclamation.
The process bill being brought in engrolTed,
and read, before the filling up the blanks Mr.
Mercer moved to re-commit the bill, in order
to reltoring an amendment disagreed to in the
House*. which had passed unanimously in the
committee of the whole ; this amendment was
to strike out the clause that authorizes the cre
ditor to pursue his a<stipn till a tender of the
Wednesday,
' «
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
FRIDAY, April 27,
29
UNE 27, I 792.
| debt and cofb, in p;old or silver is made. This
I motion was founded on the particular circuui
' stances ot* persons indebted to foreigners—it
was laid that the lav/ with this claule in it,
would annihilate the power of the several States
,to pass insolvent laws—and in consequence,
those unfortunate debtors would be entirely in
the power of a let of persons who retained the
molt rancorous enmity against the revolution,
and the persons molt conspicuous in their exer
tions tu bring about that event. It was fur
ther laid, that it vests a power in a merciless
creditor to immure an unfortunate debtor
within the walls of a prison for life j it con
found", the unfortunate, with the vicious and
abandoned—and extends a regulation deligned
originally merely to produce a full discovery
and delivery of all the debtor's property, to a
most unrighteous and unreasonable punilliment,
to the Ihortening of life, and to the injuring of
society. It was further observed that its ope
ration would place the citizens of the United
States upon a very different footing from En
glifli debtors who owe money to the citizens of
the United States ; the treaty of peace which
had been mentioned was concluded during the
existence of those laws under which the Britilh
debtors enjoyed privileges which will by no
means be reciprocal, Ihould this clause be re
tained. It was alio observed that if this law
was pa(Ted, it would not be in the power of the
Legillature to provide a remedy, as it would be
an expoft fa&o law—it would place the debt
ors in a much worse lituation than they were
in at the time the contracts were made—by
giving these foreign creditors an advantage
which they did not contemplate at the time
when the credit was given.
In opposition to the motion for recommitting
the bill, it was contended that the creditors al
luded to, had not discovered that rancorous and
cruel disposition, in at least some of the States,
which had been complained of—but on the con
trary had treated their debtors in the molt hu
mane and generous manner ; the provision con
templated by the bill is precisely the fame with
that contained in a law which has twice re
ceived the fan&ion of Congress under the new
constitution—os which no complaint had ever
been made—that to prescribe a different rule
would excite great alarms and be attendedwith
enibarrafTments and perhaps with injury to the
debtor as well as to the creditor : To leave it
optional with the debtor to fay in what manner
he will pay his debts—or to fubjedt the creditor
to the caprice of the several State governments
whose laws may be founded on very opposite
principles, will put it out of his power to get
his debts paid agreeable to the treaty of peace;
and therefore will be a virtual infraction of
that treaty—the provision it was said, is ftri<ft
ly conformable to the letter of the
uniformity in connection with justice was a
principal object contemplated by the constitu
tion—this was considered as one of its chief ex
cellencies—but to fay that foreign creditors
shall be fubjefted to the legislative provisions of
the several States which are known to clash,
some of which have made paper a tender—other s
of which have depreciated paper in circulation,is
to defeat every juftexpectation,founded on the
treaty of peace and the constitution. It was
urged that this clause ought to be retained on
every principle of uniformity as a general pro
vision. Nor could it be considered as an ex
post fatto law, fmce every contract would re
main as it was, and always be determined ac
cording to its own principles, except by mutual
consent this general provision should be resort
ed to.
THE AMERICAN FARMER.
GOOD and evil are to be found in all socie
ties, and it is in vain to seek for any spot
where those ingredients are not mixed. I
therefore reft fatisfied, and thank God that my
lot is to be an American farmer, instead of a
Ruffian boor or an Hungarian peasant.
It is strange that misery, when viewed in
others, should become to us a fort of real good;
though I am far from rejoicing to hear that there
are in the world men so thoroughly wretchcd.
They are no doubt asharmlefs, industrious, and
willing to work as we are. Hard is their fate
to be thus condemned to slavery worse than that
of our negroes. Yet, w hen young, 1 entertain
ed some thoughts of felling my farm : I thought
it afforded but a dull repetition of the fame la
bors and pleasures. I thought the former tedi
ous and heavy; the latter, few and insipid. But,
when I came to consider myfelf as divested of
my farm, I then found the world so wide, and
every place so full, that I began to fear left the re
would be no room for me. My farm, mvhoufe,
my barn, presented to my imagination, objects
from which I adduced quite new ideas, they
were more forcible than before. Why Ihould
not I find myfelf happy, said I, where my father
was before ? He left me no good books, it is
true; he gave me no other education than the
arts of reading and writing; but he left me a
good farm, and his experience: he left me free
from debts, and no kind of difficulties to strug
gle with. I married, and this perfectly recon
ciled me to my iituation. IVly wife rendered
my house all at once chearful and pleasing ; it
no longer appeared gloomy and solitary as be
fore. When I _ went to work in my fields, I
[Whole No. 550.]
worked with more alacritv and fprightlinefs.
I feit that I did not v. ork for myl'elf alone, and
this encouraged me much. My wife would of
ten come with her knitting in her hand, and lit
under the fliady tree, praising the ftraightncls
of my furrows, and the docility of my hor/es.
This swelled my heart, and made every thing
ligUt and plealant, and I regretted that J had
not married before. I feit myfelf happy in my
new situation, and where is that station which
can confer a more fubitantial system of felicity
than that of an American farmer, pofie fling
freedom of action and thoughts, ruled by a mode
of government which requires but little from
us? I owe nothing but a pepper corn to my
country, and due refped. 1 know no landlord
but the Lord of all Land) to whom I owe the
most sincere gratitude. My father left me
three hundred and seventy-one acres of land,
i forty-feven of which are good timothy meadow,
an excellent orchard, a good house, and a fub
ltantial barn. It is my duty to think how happy
lam that he lived to build and to pay for ail
these improvements. What are the labors
which I have to undergo ? What are my fa
tigues when compared to his, who had every
thing to do, from the firft tree he felled, to the
finilhing of his house ? Every year I kill from
1,500 to 2,00~> weight of pork, 1,200 of beef,
half a dozen of good wethers in harvefl; of
fowls my wife has always a grea* flock ; what
can I wish more? My hired labourers are faith
ful and healthy. By a long series of industry
and honest dealings, my father left behind hiin
the name of a good man. I have but to tread
his paths to be happy and a good man like him.
I know enough of the law to regulate my little
concerns with propriety, nor do I dread its
power. These are the grand outlines of my
situation J but as I can feel much more than I
am able to express, I hardly know how to pro
ceed.
When my firft Ton was born, the whole train
of my ideas were suddenly altered- Never was
there a charm that a£ted so quickly and pow
erfully. I ceased to ramble in imagination
through the wide world. My excursions, since,
have not exceeded the bounds of my farm ; and
all my principal pleasures are now centered
within its scanty limits; but, at the fame time,
there is not an operation belonging to it in
which I do not find some food for ufeful reflec
tions. Yet how rude must the feelings of the
farmer be who daily holds the ax or the plough !
How much more refined, on the contrary, those
of the European, whose mind is improved by
education, example, books, and by every ac
quired advantage 1 Those feelings however, I
will delineate as well as 1 can. When I con
template my wife, by my fire fide, while she ci
ther spins, knits, darns, or nurses otir child, I
cannot describe the various emotions of love,
or gratitude, of conscious pride, which thrill in
my heart, and often overflow in involuntary
tears. I feel the necessity, the sweet pleasure,
of a&ing my part, the part of a husband and fa
ther, with an attention and propriety which
may entitle me to my good fortune.
It is true, these pleasing images vanish with
the fmokc of my pipe, but, though they disap
pear from my mind, the impreilion they have
made on my heart is indelible. When I play
with the infant, my warm imagination runs
forward, and eagerly anticipates his future
temper apd constitution. I would willingly
open the book of fate, and know in which page
his deiliny is delineated. Alas ! where is the
father, who, in those moments of paternal.ex
tacy can delineate one half of the thoughts
which dilate his heart ? I am sure I cannot.
Then again I fear for the health of those who
are become so dear to me ; and in their fick
nefles, Ifeverely pay for the joys I experienced
while they were well. Whenever I go abroad
it is always involuntary. 1 never return home
without feeling some pleasing emotion, which i
often suppress as useless and foolifh. The in
stant I enter on my land, the bright idea of pro
perty, of exclusive right, of independence, ex
alt my mind. Precious foil, I fay to myfelf,
by what singular custom of law is it that thou
waft made to constitute the riches of the free
holder ? What ihould we American fanners be
without the diftinft poflelfion of that foil ? It
feeds, it clothes us ! from it we draw even a
great exuberancy, our best meat, our richest
drink ; the very honey of our bees comes from
this privileged spot. No wonder we should
thus cherilh its pofleilion; no wonder that so
many Europeans, who have never been able to
lay that l'uch portion of land was Cneirs, croft
the Atlantic to realize that happiness ! This
formerly rude foil has been converted by my
father into a pleasant farm, and, in return, it
has established all our rights. On it is founded
our rank, our freedom, our power, as citizens j
our importance, as inhabitants of such adiftrift.
These images, 1 mud coi:fe{s ? I always behold
with pleasure, and extend them as far as my
imagination can reach ; for this is what may
be called the true and the only philosophy of an
American fanner.
Bon Mot, —A wag having afTeited in prefencc of
a Knight, that F. R. S. to his name might be cob-,
ftrued into Fe l low of Rimarkabli Stupi
dity, infkad of Fellow of the Roval Socicty
The honourable gentleman sagaciously took the
him, and bad them expunged.ZX
CONSTANTINOPLE, January 27.
THE loliesof this empire fuilained
by the late bloody and expensive
war, scarce half a century, supposing
in at peace so long, would hardly be
able to reiifcburfe. But our troubles
are yet at an end—though releas
ed frafti the war with Aultria and
Ruflia, the Ottoman Government,
trom the revolt of numerous Pachas,
is likely to be plunged into thegieat
elt embarralimenis, if not 111 complete
ruin. The principal of tliele revol
ters is Her '1 imur Khan, who, after
jnuitering the Province he command
ed, is now rapidly marching towards
Bagdat, at the head of an iinmenle
army. Several Egyptian Beys have
alio wrenched the 'command from
those Who governed under the Grand
Seignior; and the son of the late Pa
cha of Annappa, who was put to
death by order of the Purie,"and his
head Cent to Constantinople, is de
vatlating the whole country of Cuban
and Caucasus. These dilallers have
occasioned the Divan to afleuible for
several days palt in order to dcvil'e
measures to withltand, and to oppole
the alarming inroad soft he revolt ers.
WARSAW, March 20.
The fitting of the Diet, which is
just begun, is rendered nufpicious by
the unanimity with which the Die
tines have approved and accepted
the conltitution of May 3, I 791. The
Marlhal of the Crown, in a very ele
gant speech, congratulated the Afleqi
bly and the Nation up.oll the harmo
ny which fublilted in the realm, in
which he said the finger of Provi
dence was so vilible, that he could
do no less than propose the 3d of
May next, to be celebrated in the molt
solemn manner as a day of thnnkf
giving, and that on that day the ift
ltone us a church Ihould be laid to be
consecrated to Divine Providence.
To render the ceremony the more
augult, M. Malachoufky proposed,
that the Deputies lent by the Die
tines to present thanks for the new
conltitution be received that day.
Prince Sapieha, Marflial of Lithua
ilia supported the proposals of his
colleague in a speech more energetic,
if pollible, than that of the Marfiial
of t,he Crown, in which he expatiat
ed at large upon the ellablilhment
of the new conltitution without trou
ble or bloodlhed ; and after acknow
ledging the obligations that the na
tion is under to the King (next to the
supreme Being) he thanked his Ma
jelty particularly on the part of his
province, and allured him that Li
thuania would yield to no part of the
realm in attachment, fidelity and gra-
titude
COPENHAGEN, March 17,
Bvlhe late accounts from St. Croix,
in the \Ve(t-lndies, we learn that the
abundant rains which have fallen in
thac island, gave the planters hopes
of a plentiful crop of lugar, which is
already calculated at 17,0c0 hogs
heads. The importation during the
five latl years from Saint-Croix, into
this kingdom, amounted to 57,720
liogflieaiis, viz. 16,587 in 1 737, 16,8 76
1111782, 7252111 1789, 9962 in 1790,
5043 ill 1791. The annual confump
tion of that article in Denmark, and
the provinces belonging to it, is about
16,000 hoglheads.
P A Pi 1 S, April id.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, April 2
The Minister at War read a letter
from Maiihal Luckner, complain
ing of the detachments that had
been made from his army, and the
various articles that were wanting to
enable him to art, in cafe of a war,
with the neceflary vigour and promp
titude.
The minister then dated the mea
sures taken, and the orders he had
given, previous to the arrival of the
General's letter, to remove the caus
es of complaint.
dpril ii. The Aflembly d ecreed,
that no public creditor shall be enti
tied to claim any payment, without
firft proving, that he has paid his pa
triotic contributions.
Jlpr'tl t6. The President informed
the allembly, that M. Duranthon, mi
ilifter at the head of the law depart
ment, and keeper of the state seal,
deiired to be heard, and leave being
granted,he made the following fpe»ch.
" None liave more ai dently wiliei.
for the revolution than myfelf ; ,iuj
none have served the caule with nine
finceiiiy and attachment. Devoeil
to solitude, 1 only emerged from it
when liberty, aitacking defpotifui,
called all her sons to I'upport tlie con
flict, and acceleiaie tlie triumph ; —
my wliole lite has been consecrated
to the propagating and purfuingof
the principles of equality, to wliici 1
(hall ever remain unalterably attach
ed. I (hall be firH, gentlemen, to im
peach my fel f to you, and to all Er ante,
fliould 1 ever deviaie from these prin
ciples, or forget that it is my duty
caiefully to watch that no infringe
ment or attack be made on the con
stitution of the kingdom. 1 /liould
not have hesitated to refufe ilie pe
rilous poll with which lam intruded,
if 1 could have c her idled the lmpe
that another citizen might have been
chosen in my Head, equally devoted
to the new order of things. I hope,
therefore, I ihall be exculed for be
ing more alarmed at the incivifm of a
man of learning, than at the want of
talents in a virtuous citizen. Howe
ver deficient I may be in learning and
capaciiy, 1 lhall never be wanting in
zeal and attention ; and if 1 (liould
not retire worthy of your regret, at
leall 1 lhall not withdraw with the
indignation of an upright man."
The allembly ordered the minister's
speech to be printed, and afterwards
diltributed throughout the kingdoir,.
DUBLIN, April 18.
The French have deliberated long
on the call of the public for war ;
but that they will go intothecountry
of their enemies if war should be de
termined, is certain. They expert
to conquer with their swords, and to
win the nations by their opinions.
Polyglott editions of the French con
ltitution, are now printing to a great
extent in Paris, and thele are to be
circulated wherever the French ar
mies go. A volley of tlieui, thePari
lians lay, will be more dangerous to
del'potil'm, than the fire of all the ar
tillery in Europe.
Monday fe'nnighr, at a numerous
meeting of the Proieitant inhabitants
of Carnckfergus.at the parilh church,
a fuin of money was unanimouily vot
ed tor the tepair of the dilietuing
meeting hotife, and for that of the
Roman Catholic chapel.—A pleasing
profpeCl of increaliug liberality, and
coiilequently riling prolperity.
T R A L E £, (Ire.) March 30,
_ The following mod extraordinary
circumstance happened a few days a
g" :—On the 24111 and 2Jth inll. the
lakeof Karrentoreen, near Killorglin,
one mile in circumference, totally
disappeared, a cavern having opened
and Jwallowed it in. This body of
water has not yet disembogued in that
neighbourhood, or any place that we
have heard of. The lake was very
remarkable for the quantity and good
nels of trout, not even one of which
remained, having all been precipitac
ed into the earth with their element.
EDINBURGH, April 12.
Scotland in general, and Edin
burgh in particular, was never in
such a fioui ifhing ilate as it has been
tor these two years lalt pult. If it
was not for the high price of provi
sions, which will, and has railed the
mechanics wages, it would bid fair
for out 11 ripping the Ealt-li.dia people
in the muslin trade ; many new arii
cles ot manufacture have also been
begun at Edinburgh ; pin-making,
buckle and button manufactories are
erec'ti.cg there by different people.
Silk Horentine, and silk napkin ma
nufactories, have also been lately
ereiTted at Edinburgh. Mills for
lpinning cotton by water have been
eieJted at Perth and Kirkaldy. At
Aberdeen, Banff, and Leven, mills
tor spinning flax or linen yarn by
water have also been erec'ted. At
Lanart, a mill for weaving has been
erected, and is now filling with looms.
I ne export of English and Scoth goods
from Clyde 10 America, has encreaf
ed every year since the end of the
war.
London, April 24.
In the charge given by Sir Nalh
Grofe, to the Grand Jury, at the
Gloucester alDzes, his lordship dwelt
30
with peculiar force on three commit
ments for maiiilaughter, which ap
peared in the calendar. The fre--
quency of this crime, he said, was to
-*>e al'ci ibed in a great ineafure, to
Ihe encouragement of late years giv
en to boxing. It was fomenimes pro
ductive of the deeper guilt of mur
der ; and always the foarce of gam
bling, idleness, and profligacy ; but
the greateit mifchief was, its tenden
cy to render the minds of the com
mon people barbarous and revenge
ful : it imparted to them a degree of
hardness and insensibility, thai unfits
ihem for those duties which ought
10 reign in the charatfter of a people
profelling Chriliianity. His lordlhip
therefore recommended tothemagil
trates a due exertion of their autho
rity, to remove an evil pregnant wich
cuiifequences fo'inconvenient and so
fatal
The following is a copy of the de
cree palled by the National AHembly,
in consequence of the landing of 21 7
rebel negroes from St. Domingo up
an the illand of Jamaica :
" The National Allembly, consi
dering that the nation desire to sup
port with the Englilh that peace,
good harmony, and fraternity, which
ought to unite free people, and look
ing upon the landing 2 negro slaves
in the port of Englilh Bay, by Capt.
Colmin.of the Emanuel, tobeagainlt
his orders, and an infringement of
the rights of nations, decree—
ift. " That the king be desired to
give the necell'ary orders for arrelt
ing the said Capt. Colmin, and pro
secuting hitn according to law.
2d. " That the King be also desir
ed to take the fpeedielt method to
fettle the indemnity due to the En
glilh nation, and to allure them that
the French nation dilhpprove of the
condatll of Capt. Colmin."
We are concerned to find from the
country prints, that Cock-Fighting is
(till encouraged among people who
call themselves gentlemen. This
remnant of barbarity accounts for the
ferocious conduct of the lower order
of people, when roufcd to diltorbthe
peace of the public. War wicklhire
is famous for savage sports of this na
ture.
A number of the French Priests and
Monks who consider the new conlh
tution of the clergy as fuci ilege, have
taken refuge in Kullia, where the
Empress orders them to be received
with peculiar favor.
The account of the engagement
between the French and English fri
-1 gates in the Ea(t-Indies, was received
in such a manner as to (hew that the
French Minillry with nothing less
than a q iarrel with this country,and
do not even desire to juftify the con
duct of their own officers, if they (hall
appear to be in the wrong.
The niece of Voltaire is reported
to manage very ill the villageof Fer
ney, which he left to her. She ex
acts exorbitant rents, which diltrefs
the honest poor, and afford the ad
venturous an opportunity of cheating
her. Lately, upon a report that <he
was dead, half the fuel in Ferney was
consumed in bonfires.
KINGSTON (Jamaica) April 21
At no time fiuce the fatal 23d of
Aug. 1791, have the affairs of Hifpan
iola been in a more diftracfted state
than they are nt the present moment.
The innumerable factions, into which
the people are divided, weaken eve
ry effort for the general good, and all
is confufion and dismay.
In anfvver to a lace application,
niatle by the Colonial Allembly to M.
Blanchelande, to head a body of men
in an enterprize againlt the common
enemy, he tells them, in a (train of
the keenelt irony, that lie is aiton
ilhed at their request, and asks what
new disorders have arisen, as their
reports to the parent ltate have uni
formly spoken of peace and tranqui
lity ; and adds, that this is the firlt
time lie had heard they pofl'efled a
militia, with an intention to combat.
I he lunation ot the town of Cape
!• rancois is, by the lalt advices from
that quarter, reported to be so peri
lous, that in the dark nights tiie cen
tinels are fometiines dabbed at their
polls ; so great is the temerity of the
revolters, encouraged without doubt
by the discord and disunion which
reign among the inhabitants.
It is fai.l that, amongst the |>ec ■" -
of colour, in the neighborhood lf!
Port-au-Prince, area Dumber of whi.e
officers, who, being ofthe ariltocraiic
party, became obnoxious to the ic
feotmentof their fellow citizens, and,
unable to elcape from the island'
thought proper to take refuge among
! the iufurgeiits.
May 12
A negro inan named Ferror* sup
posed to be a nativeof Sc. Kict's, ai,,l
who declares himfelf to be free, was
apprehended 111 this town a day or
two since, and committed to the work
house, where he is.now closely con
fined. This fellow is lately from
Hifpaniola, and performed a very ac
tive part in the late dreadful outrages
in the vicinity of St. Marc.
The Spanish court is said to dif;jp
prove very highly of the conduit of
the Spanilh Governor of St. Domingo,
towards the French who applied for
protection. A severe reprimand and
frelii orders have been lent to him.
VVe are lorry to underfhind that
the jealousy of theSpanilh merchants
hath, at length, driven Mr. Philip
Alwood from the Havannah, and thac
he has embarked for Cadiz. He had
a fair prospect of accumulating a ve-'
ry handlonie fortune by factorage
in the Guinea trade, the envy of his
rivals put a final (lop to his progrels.
Of all the objects underthe Sun 110
one so hntcfnl in the fight of a
Spaniard as the Kreuch Flag. Great
ly as they are in want of Negroes at
the Havannah, they will not fuller
one slave veflel, bearing that flag to
enter the Port. Two very large (hips,
full of negroes, by off the mouth of
the Moro, a week or two since, for
two days, and, though they fired se
veral guns, and exhibited many other
signals of distress, were compelled
to depart, without having obtained
permiilion to land eveij one man.
BOSTON, June 16,
humane society.
Ac the fcmiannnal meeting of the
Humane Socicty of this Common weali I),
on Tuesday, the 12 h iuft—-a Letter
from the Prefidenc of the National
Alfsmbly of France, was communicated
by M. De Le Tombe, in which ihe
refpeit shewn by this Socieiy to M.
Julien, Jean Dv Kutour in pre
senting him with a golden Medal, for
his fnccefsful exertion to save the lives
of Daniel Ptirce, and three ether m:n,
who were shipwrecked near Nantuck
et Shoals, was gratefully acknow
ledged. To this Letter a committee
was appointed to write an answer,
which will pass tlirough the hands of
the Hon. Cartful to the Ptefident.
Paris, 24th November, 1791
TIIK National AHembly, to whom
1 have imparted the letter which you
directed tome, has given defervedap
plaufe to the behavior of M. »u Ru
tour, and has desired me to teflifv
to him its latisfartion thereupon, and
to forward to hiui the honourable
Medal, which has been decreed for
him by the Humane Society of
Mafl'achufetts.
The National Assembly at the fame
time directed me to write to you, and
to express how sensible it was to the
earneit care taken by tliac Society to
reward in so flattering a manner a
French citizen. The happy revolu
tion which has been efFetfted in this
empire, will draw more closely ihofe
ties which had already united the
American and French nations : Thus
linked together, in spite of the dis
tance which separates them, they will
have but one and the fame spirit, and
will be in no competition but in those
virtues, which the love of liberty and
patriotism inspire. The whole world
will be solicitous to pay a just homage
to the benevolent citizens, who im
pelled by the generous ardor of ren
dering tliemfelves nfeful to their fel
low men, have formed an aflociatioit
under the sublime title of the Hu
mane Society of Massachusetts
—instituted to relieve the unfortu
nate, and to reward those who imi
tate its noble intention.
The Representatives of the French
nation do foleinnly undertake, in ihc
name of their constituents, the fame
engagement, and the whole nation,
free hereafter from the yoke which
reltrained irs native benevolence, will
form one p'oilantropick society, which
will keep up, with that of Maflachu
feits, a happy intercourse of virtuesand fraternal regard, which no other
intereits will ever be able to inter
rupt. This is the vote of the Nation
al Affenibly, and you, Sir, are le
quefted by tliem to communicate rliefe
jentiments to the Humane Society
of Mallachufetts.
The Pes IDE nt of
the National Aff'enibly.
(Signed) GR.ENOT VAUBLANC.
Published by order of the Humane
Society,
JOHN AVERY, jun. Rec. Sec'ry
BALTIMORE, June iy.
From a Correspondent
" Eveiy man, who is able to tell
that two'and' two make four, mull
fee that Congress have given great
encouragement to American fruit and
•jrain spirits, by the excise-law. h'o
reign grain spirits are to pay twenty,
eight cents per gallon, and foreign
spirits of all other kinds twenty-five
cents per gallon, though spirits made
of fruit and grain in the United
States are to pay only seven cents.
The lead difference is eighteen cents
.—average duty of foreign spirits be
fore the adoption of the federal con
ltitution was not more than fix cents
upon foreign, so that the least differ
ence against foreign spirits is now
twelve cents more than it used to be itn~
der the State Governments.—Congress
have made a difference in favour of
Spirits made of native materials, by
laying three cents more on Moiafles-
Spirics. No State ever gave this en
couragement to Spirits made out of the
produce of our farms, over Spirits made
from foreign materials."
NEW3ERN, (N.C.) June 9.
The Circuit Court of the United
States adjourned yellerday. In the
course of the term, Edward Jones
and Edward Graham, Efquircs, were
admitted as Counsellors.
On Thursday last, Nathan alias
William Round, ftoocl his trial on an
indictment for piracy, and was ac
quitted.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. TEN NO,
HPHOSE who peruse your paper with impani-
X alityobferve, that you never appear to be il
liberal exc*pi when y° Ll inadvertently adopt fen
tirnents, or make quotations from the National
Gazette.— What you remarked the other day in
refpe&to foreigners, was not ftri&ly proper or de
cent ; but con(idering from whom the sentiment
was borrowed, you had reason to suppose it would
be agreeable. In this you were mifbken. A Bof
tonian h-s no privilege to attack or even to retort
upon others—he ought always (ilently to suss i
abuse. The Gazette of June 25th, has justly re
proached you for applying to your political oppo
ncuts the precise terms which they constantly be
stow upon the mod rcfpc&able chara&ers. In
llead of following their example, it may be ufeful
for you to consider, that a gentleman can have no
fufl&cient apology for adopting scurrilous language
on any occasion. Even a scurrilous reproof of
lucli indiscretions will be read with pleasure, efpe
cully if it be consentaneous with the character of
its authot, and do not offend against those princi
ples of unity, congruity and delign, which are ca
pable of beiiowing a kind of beauty on objects
which, feparatcly considered, arc hateful and de
formed. A. B.
Philadelphia, June 27.
The Constitution of Kentucky was finally ra
tiued by the Convention of Danville, on the
26th day of April last. The firit Legislature
was to meet at Lexington, on the 4th instant.
Isaac Shelby, j£fq. is ele&ed Governor.
We learn iiom Windsor, (Vermont) that on 1
the evening of the 2oth ultimo, the Distillery ,
and Brewery in Middlebury, belonging to Mr. '
Rofar, was con fumed by fire, supposed ,to have
been communicated from the chimney. A
large quantity of Grain, Brandy, Gin, Porter,
and other liquors, were likewise consumed.
The building was 150 feet in length, and com
pletely finifhed—squal in value and conveni-
to any in America. Fortunately, the
people who slept in the building escaped unhurt.
T ne damage is estimated at three thousand
pounds. Large funis of money have been sub
scribed, to aflift in rebuilding the house.
By late accounts from Hifnpaiola, it appears
hat M. Blanc helande the French governor,
entertained apprehenlions of hostile designs 011
the part of their neighbors, the EnglisH at Ja
maica In consequence of an encreafe in the
armaments at that place— Two regiments, in
addition to the troops already there, being or
dered irom Nova-Scotia— but it is molt proba
ble the object of the Britilh is to preserve the
p:aee of their own iltand.
1 he Alfem sly of Jamaica have reicinded the
loan of r\-001. to the government of St. Do
mingo, made ,ome time since—the said govern
ment having declined the acceptance thereof.
0m r D CoUn r te , r of the funded,
dwjt ot Pcnnfylvanla having been lately detest- 1
ed, the public have been cautioned by the Comp-'
troller General to beware of such as may be of
lered for falc.
ili/f n lh ; '* lh of cont.in.
the follow,ng The (fabferiber thUks it hi,
duty thn.«rly to mform his friend., that he de
clmcsftand.ng, poll, , t the enfaing eitttio,,, for
a member tt> Cotigrcfs, JAMES JACKSON.
The State of Connecticut, according to some
late resolutions of the legiflature,i; taking mea
sures to carry the law of the United States fur
regulatisg the militia, into execution.
Sunday last was drowned in the Schuylkill,
near this city, Mr. Johm Eeohn, a native of
Ireland—educated in Francs—xhofe premature
fate is greatly regretted by his acquaintance,
and lamented by his friends.
By late accounts from Ireland, it appears
that a f'pirit of candor, urbanity and benevolent
citizeulhip, pervades the various fefts and de
nominationsof persons throughout the kingdom.
This union and coalition is absolutely necefTary
to precede those exertionsfor a redress of griev
ances which have hitherto failed for want of
harmony and a consolidation of interests.
On Satnrday last arrived here in the Brig
Little Sarah, 24 days from Kingston, (Jamaica)
Mr. Bowen, Mrs. Bowen, aud Mr. M'Currach,
of Jamaica, and Mr. Hugh Lenox of this city.
On Monday the 18th inft. Captain Stakes'
troop of light dragoons moved from Elizabeth-
Town, (N. J.) on their route to the weftera
country.
Mr. Vinikg has informed the people of Dela
ware that he declines being chosen member of
Congref* for that itate at the next eieftion.—
John Dickinson, Esq. has alio declined being
elceted Governor of that itate.
OnTuefdavthe 19th inft. arrived at Wil
mington, (Delaware) the Ship Wilmington, Capt.
Jeffries, in 37 days from Belfaft, with upwards
of 5X> fouls.
The paflcngers on board the fliip Wilming
ton, from Belfaft to Wilmington, have publish
ed a certificate purporting their grateful sense
of the very humane and kind treatment of
Capt. James Jeffries during a pailageoi'37 days.
Humanity—delightful tale—
More sweet than summer's faireft gale,
That wafts us to our dclHn'd Ihore ;
For thou exiits, when that is o'er.
In the Montgomery, Bnnyan, arrived at New-
York from London, came twenty-five paiTen
gers.
PAPERS received from Cape-Francois, to the
la(t of May, give but an inlperfe& idea of the
Colony. From a pcrufal of them we coll; 61 the
following
A committee of the Colonial Assembly, about
the middle ot May, reported the plan ot a Con
flitution lor the Colony. The papers leccivcd
do not give a copy of it. The Assembly have
begun to dtfcufs us merits; but their proceedings,
owing to the relludtious laid on the pieU, do not
appear.
Some ilir has been made in the AfTcmbly, to
render its operations independent ot the National
Assembly, by reprefvnting that it has not the
right to repeal the conUitutioual law of the 28i.fi
of Sept. which rcfpe&s the Colonies ; and that,
the Colonial Assembly, holding its powers as the
National Assembly Goes from the Conflituting
Assembly, will acknowledge no other law as then
guide, in enathug thole concerning the internal
government ot bairit-Domingo, than the coniti
lutional law of the 28th of September.
It is propoled to submit to the King, for hi&
approbation, their ( laws, in the fame manner, as
ihe National Allembly. '!
And also, to draw up an account of tlie decrees
propoled and cnailed by the ConiViiuting and
Lcgiflative Affemblics, relative to the Colonies,
with oblervations to prove, that the want of local
knowledge in those bodies, has not a little con
tributed 10 blow up the flame of discord, and is
one of thefirll cauks of the calamities fuffered in
Saint-Domingo ; that the National Assembly may
clearly fee, the pioptiety of leaving to the Colo
nies to ena£l the laws which are to govern them,
without which powers the colonies cannot exilh
Mr. Fave ranges, a Member of the Colonial
Assembly, proposed to abolilh peifonal slavery,
and to ticciee, as elf ntial to the existence of Su
gar Colonics, a fpecics of slavery, binding the slave
to the foil. He alio propoled regulations, foibid
ing the use of slaves lor domcltic service*, and to
fill their places by hired freemen. Ke repreferited,
in support ot this plan, domestic slaves as the
cause of the present diftui bances, from the oppor
tunities they had of feeing, hearing, and learning.
He also infilled on the advantages of encreafing
the population of whites by this means, and there
by opposing, with more torce, any attempts ol
the negroes; and on the profpetl ot a more care
ful culture, by rcltoiing to the sugar plantations,
ico,ooo working negroes.
These proportions of Mr. Faverances, who
appears 10 be an eloquent and influential member,
were ordered to lie on the table, to be taken up
alter the completion of the Conllitution.
The Assembly appears unanimously of opinion,
that slavery, 111 some shape or other, is neceifary
to the v ( ry existence of the sugar colonies.
Martinico has framed its conilitution.
A refpe£table number of the Members of the
Colonial Assembly, appear to be warm fuppor
teisof the rights ot the free people ot colour.
Additional Particulars ot the Death of the King
of Sweden
4< The night the King went to the Opera, he
went hist to his own box, attended only by one
Chamberlain ; and when they were seated, lie
said, " Now is the time if they mean to murder
me, for them to do it ; for you alone, cannot de
fend me." Afterwards he laid, " Well, we will
go down;" and the moment he went, he saw hi.v
fate, for those who were in the plot crowded
about him ; and lo clofc was the allafiin, that be
felt the muzzle of the pistol before it went otF.—
the number ol those that were taken up,
was a Baron Home, who declared himfclf not on
ly an accomplice, but the principal in the thi
conspiracy. (London Paper.)
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
It is remarkable that all the recent com
plaints refpe&ing the excise, originate at the
feat of government; the complexion and fea
tures of these complaints are so finiilar, that it
is taking no great rifqne to pronounce them all
the illegitimate offspring of one family, if not of
one parent —but the public may reft affiired,
that these paper puppets are not supported by
31
correfpmding production: from thole parts of
the levtral slates which are principally interest-;
ed in the business. Accounts from various j
quarter, particularly from the southward, in-;
dijjatefuch an acquiescence in the lav/, as mufti
Compltatly dilappomt the hopes and wiihes of*
those vho take so much pains to brew mifchief.
A piragraph in the National Gazette of June
i3ih, announced that " the canker worms" in Mal
fachufrtu and Connecticut, had formed a " pow
erful confederacy" against the " eajlern cxcij'e,"
and vere manifefting " their wrath and indigna
tion" against the law, by " making dreadful ra
vagesamong the apple trees" in that quarte.
It s ftrangc, fays a corrcfpondent, that men
who «n all occzfions boafl of their own extraordi
nary jihilanthiopy, should behold their neighbor's
crup? destroyed with malignant fatisfattion. The
plea/Ure refilling from such fentimcnts,. and the
hjonof of being airociated in politics with "canker
worms" ate not envied by the people of New-
England.
As the ravages of these infe&s have in some
measure ceased, it is recommended to those whole
genius and education have rendered them wile
and learned in the natural hiftorv of caterpillars,
to consider, whether it is not advisable to concert
some new measures for cementing and ha»moniz
ing the views and interests of this " povvei ful con
federacy.'*
Nothing, fays a correspondent, can better fliew
the spirit by which a certain faction is adluated,
than the gross and barefaced expedients they prac
tice to impose on the fuopofed ignorance and cre
dulity of their fellow-citizens. Ot this a notable
specimen is to be found in the animadversions on
the late loan from the Bank of the United States to
the government, contained in the National Gazette
of the 21ft inft. Among other sophistical absur
dities, it is a(Torted that " the loan will consist of
paper, which cojls the bank nothing," and that it
will be " repaid in gold and filverThis is a
direst and palpable untruth. The loan in question,
and every lo*n which is made by the bank, cither
:o the public or individuals, is absolutely and une
quivocally a loan in specie. The moment alter the
lum lent is palled to the credit of the borrower, he
or any person to whom he gives an order, for the
vv'iole, or any part, of it, can go or ftnd to the bank
and take out the amount \n guineas* dollars, or other
gold ox Jilvcr. —And this, in ladt, is dons in every
cafe in which gold and silver are more convenient
to the party entitled to receive than bank notes.
If he takes bank notes, it can only be bscaufe he
prefers them. And what arc these notes? They
ire payable to the bearer on demand, in gold or
silver. Every holder of a note can go or lend to
the bank any day in the week, except Sunday, and
receive the amount of it in specie. These arc ta£ls
known to every citizen of Philadelphia, to every
well-informed man in the United States.
When, therefore, the whole sum lent can, in the
firfl injlance, be taken out of the bank iu gold or sil
ver, or both, the mere pleafuie of the borrower —
when, if he takes note*, it mult be ior no other
reason than becaufc he prefers them-—and when,
for ihe notes which he takes, he or any other per
foil into whose hands they come, can at any time
demand and receive at the bank their amount in
*»old and silver—with what propiiety, with what
plausibility, with what fcmblance of truth or mo
de sty, can the people be told that the loan inquel
tion consists of paper which cojls nothing to the bank ?
But this is not all. It is endeavored by ambi
guous and artful exprclfions, 10 induce a belirt
that the government has wantonly, without conjidcra
tion, and at the expence oj the people, granted Jour
millions of dollais to the bank. This is the natu
ral inference which uninformed readers would
draw from what is said : and yet nothing is fur
ther from the truth. The government has not
granted a Jmgle farthing. It has only granted to a
number of individuals a corporate capacity to en
able them to aifociate and unite their own money and
funds to carry on the bufincfs of banking. It is
irue,thcy make a profit by that business; but they
make i t only at the expence of those who voluntarily
deal with them, not at the expence of the people, as :s
lalfely and wickedly aliened. i hey make it at
the expence of those who arc wilting to borrow their
money; for the loan of which too iliey can take no
more than fix per cent, per annum. The borrower
also finds hhs compcnfation in the use of the money
which is lent to him ; so that in ftriflntls the pro-:
fits of the bank are at nobody's expence; lince
every one who contributes to them gets a full
equivalent for what he contributes. Nay, he
commonly makes a profit to himfelf, over and
above what he poys.
Neither has this mere privilege, this capacity to
associate and ast as a body, been granted without
abundant confederation. Several important pub
lic advantages .ifford of themfeives fufficient com
penlation. The accommodations to trade by fa
cilitating loans to those who carry it oil —and by
eftablifiling, in the notes of the bank, a more con
venient medium of lemittance from place to place.
The promoting of the easy collection of the reve
nue by means of those loans, and of an cncreafed
circulation. The rendering it moie eafytothe
government to obtain loans on moderate terms in
cases of emergency ; as in the very instance which
has called forth the malevolent ftri&ures under ex
amination.—Nor arc these the only considerations
of the grant—A special and direst equivalent has
been secured by the government, in the very terms
of it, worth at this moment 1,200,000 dollars.
This results from the light reserved to the go
vernment to ftjbfcribe 2,000,000 of dollars to the
stock of the bank ; borrowing back with one hand
what is fubferihed with the oiher,& without an im
mediate advance of a single (hilling. By this ope
ration, at the present price of bank stock, the go
vernment has made a clear nett profit ot the furr.
above mentioned, namely, I,2oo,ooodollars, since
it can dispose of its (hare of that stock at an ad
vance of fixt) per cent.
The government then has in fatt secured to it
! felf one fifth of all the profits which the bank has
made, or (hall hereafter make. It has secured to
itfelf what is now equal to a clear gain of 1,200,000
dollars.—Are 1,200,000 dollars no consideration ?
Let the condutt of the national government be I
compared with that of the states, which have made
fimilnr grants. Pennsylvania, Maflachufetts, New-
York, Maryland. Which ol these Hates has made
so advantageous a bargain for itfelf as Congress
have done for the Union ?—Neither of them.—
Then where is the ground to fay that, in making
ihe grant, Congrcfs acted zcanton/v and without
consideration ? Pcace, Brawlers 1 Peace '
The Editor has received fever a I letters of
ths following
L L-
Richmond, June 13th, 1792.
SIR,
YOU will please to discontinue my paper af
ter the receipt of* this. I alfure you'/t is with
regret, that I give up the United States Ga
zette ; but I think the tax so unjull and arbi
trary, that I am determined never to contri
bute any thing to encourage it.
lam, Sir, your most obedient.
Under the former Poll-Office Law, the ex
change of newspapers between printers was a
matter of courtcfy and indulgence ; and lb uncer
tain was the communication which arose from
this indulgence, that those exchange papers
were intercepted and prevented from reaching
their destination more than half the time—Witii
refpeft to papers for subscribers, the business
was still more precarious—During three years
experience, a series of facts have occured, so
adverse to a distant circulation of a newspaper,
that the Editor of this Gazetta is fully convinc
ed that the bufmefs wt «-'d very soon have en
tirely ceased, had not government interposed.—
For eighteen months preceding the tirfc ofjune,
not more than two thirds of the numbers of the
Gazette were received by distant subscribers,
through the medium of the poft-office—The
consequence was, that a very considerable pro
portion of them were discouraged from conti
nuing their subscriptions—and in a very lhort
time, the idea of taking papers printed at the
feat of government, would have been very ge
nerally abandoned—Complaints became univer
fai; to remedy which, the new law was palled—
an expence was inevitable—the firft enquiry
was, whether this expence fhouldbe thrown up
on the community at large, or whether it
ihould be borne by those immediately benefited
—for the income from the poft-ortice was not
calculated to be more than fufficient for the
support of the department—lt being determin
ed that it would be unjust to impose the burthen
on the whole communiny—the next enquiry
was how the buftnefs should be equalized ? It is
known that the printing business is carried on
in tie northern states at a much cheaper rate
than in the fouthern.—Hadprovifion been made
to transmit papers by the mail free of expence,
it is evident that the southern printers would
have been placed in a very disadvantageous li
tuation—for the northern printers would have
poured their publications into the southern
states, at a price greatly below what the fame
work can poflibly be executed there.
Another confidsration was—the state of the
buiinefs as it refpedted a great number of pri
vate news-carriers, who traverse various parts
of the United States out of the post-roads—
some reference to the rates paid by those who
employed these riders, was neceflary—on the
plan of having the expence general, these would
have been fubje&ed to a double iinpofition,
merely on account of not living on the polt
road.
Great pains was taken to ascertain the low
est rate of postage, which would be competent
to defraying the expence—and it may be rea
sonably expected, that if on experiment thepre
fent rates are more than fufficient toenfure the
obje«st, a punctual tranfmilfion of the papers,
that they will be reduced—no idea of a revenue
from newfpapsrs being contemplated.
The rates at present are not more than one
quarter of the sum paid to many private polls—
Should the law conduce to punctuality, of which
there can be no doubt, the papers will be dou
bly valuable, and from present appearances,
the circulation of newspapers will very soon he
greatly increafed—this 9 whatever may be sug
gested to the contrary, was the design of Con
gress in pafling the law—For as ignorance is the
support of Tyranny, so misrepresentation and
fallhood are the bane ofLiberty and good go-
I vernment, the effe&s of which can only be coun
j tcra&ed by enabling the people to fee and judge
for themselves.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT
Ship Andrew, She well t Madeira,
Eagle. Petty Opoito,
Levant, Ilarrifon, 5/. Vincent 9
Vrig Little Sarah, Lowtey, Jamaica,
Kitty, Davis, 5/. Thomas,
Triumph, Lathi op, Jamaica,
Georgia Packct, burroughs, Charlejlon,
St. John the Baptijl, , Bayonne
"" ./ - r J(' ' _ »
Mercury, Gardiner, 5/. Croix,
Schooner f Levering, Cape-Francoii,
Resource, Denabrec, do.
Commerce, Foulke, Curracod,
La Patrie, Relche, Leogane,
Fagle, Jones, tharlejlon,
Hope, Smith, North-Carolina,
Relief\ Weljh, Virginia,
Polly £3 Sally, M'Neran, do.
7<j//y Bacchus, 0 } Neaf, Plank Bridge,
friend/kip, Bow en, Mary land,
Good lndujljy, Brown, A'. Carolina,
«W/y, Lawrence, Nevis,
Rainbow, Maclie, Virginia,
Nancy, Walley, N. Carolina,
Hope, JdoUtte, do.
Poplar, Lightbonrne, 5/. Croix*
Jenny and Bet fey, Darviel, St.EuJlatia,
Hope, Keen, do.
Harmony, Peck, New-Yoik,
Julian, Redfield, do.
Sally, BeJ>, Virginia,
Dolphin, Car hart, do.
Favourite Betjey, Swain, do.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 2\.f
3 per Cents, 12/4
Deferred, 13/'
Indents, \$J
Final Settlements, iof
Half (hares Bank. U. S. 62 64 per cent. p> em.
j Shares Bank North-America, 25 ditto.
I*»* Advertisements of one fquarc, or less, Wf//
publtfked in this paper oncejor 50 Cents, and eachfub
sequent insertion at 20 Cents.4
SOCIETY FOR ESTABLISHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
At a meeting of the Directors of the Society for
eiiablifliing ufeful manufactures, held at New
ark, on Friday the eiglueenth day of May,
1792, at which time was palled the following.
Supplement to an ordinance, entitled, " An or
dinance for securing the punctual payment of
the monies due on the Inscriptions to the so
ciety for eltabliihing ufeful manufaiftures."
WHEREAS by the third feition of the ordi
nance entitled, " An ordinance for secur
ing the punctual payment of the monies due on
the fubl'criptions to the society for ellablilhing
ufeful manufactures," it is ordained, thatifany
lubferiber or his alligns, lhall neglecft to pay the
second, third or fourth payment of his, her or
their refpeitive fnbfcriptions, for the space of
three days after the expiration of the time limit
ed by the law of incorporation for the said pay.
nients, that is to fay, the second payment, on the
13th day of July, 1 792 : that then and in that
cafe, all and every share or {hares, offuchperfon
or persons. so neglecting to make such payments
as aforefaid, and the monies by them previously
paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever thereafter
veiled in the said directors and their fuccefi'ors
for the common benefit of the said society.
And whereas circumstances render it inexpe
dient to exact full payment of the second instal
ment on the said thirteenth day of July next, or
within three days thereafter.
Be it therefore ordained, by the deputy gover
nor and direitors of the society for eftablifiiing
ufeful manufaiftures, that if the said second pay
ment lhall be made in manner following, that is
to fay, one equal third part thereof, on or before
the thirteenth day of August next, one other e
<jual third part thereof, on or before the thir
teenth day of September next, and one other e
qual third part thereof, on or before the thir
teenth day of October next, with lawful interell
computed thereon from the said thirteenth day
of July next, that then and in such cafe, the said
penalty mentioned in the said feiftion, shall not
be exacted, any thing in the said ordinance to
the contrary notwithstanding.
A. MERCER, Dep. Gov.
Extratft from the minutes,
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing ehe
Prottftant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Biunfwick,
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature of the State of Ncw-Jerfey,
pal Ted November 1791.
SCHEME.
1
1
2
5
10
3°
9°
■675
Prise of 2000
1000
s°®
coo
100
s*
20
4
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks,
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
|£3T ThisLotfry is composed oi 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a deduction of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being ot such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the most
liberal support.
The drawing will positively commence on the second Monday
in July, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of
New-Brunfwick, under the infpe&ion of Col. John Bayard, Pre
sident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city ot Am
boy ; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufacturing Society of New-Jerky.
Tickets to be had ot the following peifons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given fccurity for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he published, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, £ Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
N. B. Those piizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confidercd as a generous
donation to the Church.
*** Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per month for their money. To accommodate
all those who may be disposed to purchase Tickets, letters direct
ed to P. Kienon, Manager, and Poflmaftcr, at New-Brunfwick,
and enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for
warded on receipt of such letters.
New-Brunfwick, April 20, 1792.
TICKETS in the NEW-BRUNSWICK LOTTERY, arc to
be had at the following placcs, viz.-~Samuel Cooper's
Ferry; at Butlington, of R. Picrfon, Esq. Bordentown, of Mr.
John Van Emburgh ; Mount Holly, of J. Read, Esq. Trenton,
of John Singer, Esq. Amboy, of James Parker, Esq. Elizabeth-
Town, of R.Gray; Powles-Hook. of Col. Smith and Judge
Hunt; Cranbury, of William Throckmorton Spotfwood ; and of
the Managers in Brunfwick.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf entirely to the
PURCHASE and SALE or STOCKS on COMMISSION",
Begs leave ro offer his services to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may pieafe to favor him with
their business, may depend upon having it tranfa&ed with ihe ut
most fidefity and dispatch.
Older! from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of the
United Stales will be flriftly attended to.
May 2,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk
Doliaik is
2000
lOCO
1000
1000
1000
1500
1800
670 c
16&00
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(«.f.)
WASHINGTON, fa the. Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option o ihe party* will be given by the Com
mifiioners of the Ftderal Biildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, ,hall produce to them the most ap
proved PL AN, iI adopted b/them, for a PRESIDEN 1 's HOUSE,
to be ere&ed in this Cuv. The fit eof the building, if the artist
will attend to it, will of coirfe influence the afptdl and outline of
his plan ; and it's deftiuaticn will point out to him the number,
fixe, and distribution of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, it the central part of it may be detached and
ere&ed for the present, wit! the appearance of a complete whole,
and be capablc of admiltingthe additional pans, in future, if they
lhall be wanting. Drawing; will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front,and fefhons through the building, in such
directions as may be necefT<ry to explain the internal ilru£lure ;
and an eftimaie of the cubic feet of brick-work composing the
whole mass of the walls.
tf THE COMMISSIONERS.
March 14, 1792.
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF a LOT in this City, to be designated by impartial judges,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party; will be given by the Commis
sioners of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July, 1792, shall produce to them the most ap
proved PLAN, if adopted bv them, for a C API TOL, tobe ere&ed
in this City , and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
(hail adopt The building to be of biick, and to contain the fol
lowing apartments, to wit :
) fufficient to ac-*l
A Conference Room C commodate 300 | these rooms
A Room for the Reprcfcntative. persons , to be of
A Lobby or Antichamber to the latter , full eleva-
A Senate Room of 1200 square feet area I tion.
An Antichamber or Lobby to the last J
12 Rooms of 600 square feet area each, for Committee Rooms and
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Drawings will be expe&ed of the ground plats, elevations of
each front, and feftions through the building in such directions
as may be neceflaiy to explain the internal ftru&ure; and anefti
mate of the cubic feet of bnck-work composing the whole tnafs
of the walls.
March 1 4, 1792.
Bank of the United States,
May 8, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the third pay
ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each (hare of
the Bank of the United Scates, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of discount and deposit; and that transfers of
public debt on account of luch payment, may be made on the
books of the Treasury of the United States, or in the office of any
of the Commiflioners of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be deposited in the office in which the specie
proportion of such payment shall be made.
Resolved, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious to the firft days of July and January of each year.
By Order, JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the firft day of July eni'uing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy expence. The upland lays in the
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marsh, from which (by an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing stream of water runs through this tratt, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook ; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good mansion-house, gar
den, and necessary out-buildings ; an orchard of the best kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees, bearing ; a crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to
Peter Le Barbi er Du Pl essis, Esq. No. 86, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia; Mr. Humphrey Waterman, at the Washing
ton, on the Bristol road; or to Doctor Tomb, at Nethamany
Ferry, Bucks County. The purchafcr, paying one third of the
price down, may have a term of years to pay ihe residue, paying
inrereft. May 5. (ep.tf.)
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warehouse, iwo doors
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoiningtheir New Fa&ory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general affort
mentof SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englifti woikmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manofa&ured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addressed to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, aud executed on the
(horteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, whereconftant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of MelTrs. Moses Austik& Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the fubfriber, on Monday the gth cur
rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROBIN, is 55 years of age,
stout made, and bred a farmer ; oneof his thumbs much swelled ;
is 5 feet 6 inches high ; had on when he went away a big purple
coloured cloth coat, a short linen coat, a pair of fuflian breeches,
a ruffled shirt, an old beaver hat, with flioes, (lockings and buckles,
all good. Also, a young NEGRO BOY named SAM, is 19
years of age, stout and well made, 5 feet 9 inches high, much
marked with the small-pox ; had on when he went away, a big
blue coat, a brown short coat, overalls of a mixed cloth, fulled
stockings, a new wool hat, new shoes and buckles. Whoever
will secure said Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to the sub
scriber, (hall receive the above reward, and all reasonable charges
paid. ALEXANDER ROBERTSON.
Morris-Town, April 17,1792.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very firft quality, and latefl impo-ration from Canton, tia
New-York, by retail, at
No 19,
Third, between Chefnuiand Marker Streets,
32
THE COMMISSIONERS.
April 27, 1792,
"PRICE CURRENT. PHiLA DK UhTTT.
PER QUANTITY.
Jv re 27. —Doliaks ioo CentseacJt.
ANCHORS pr.lb. ;c 8: Pitch, pr. bbl. id 2d
Allum, Enghih, pr.c. 3^73 c Pork, Burlington, \idnuC-c
Ditto, Roch pr.lb. 11 c -Lower counry ioj
Ashes, pot, per toe, god lood Carolina
Pearl, Peas, Albany pr. bu(h. 7j , :
Arrack pr. gall. 1 d 33c id 67c Pepper, pr. Id, $og
Brandy, common, id icc Pimento jfo
—Cognuc id 33c Raisins, b, ft, or. ie S 7 J
pr. ton. 32a 33c 6qu Diuo . '
Bricks, pr. M. 7 d DU[o P ; ; , )0X -
Bread, fo.p .pr.cwt. id 6-ad Rl „ v *
Ditto, P' 1 "' Rosin p r . h bl. td 3 yd^<
Ditto, rm.ll water 3 6< 40c f j,*
Beer, American, in 1 a _ la.
l . . '• i i« 4W - Antigua uic
bot pr.doz. bot. incl. j T ,
1 , , , i r Windward ov IOOf
pr. bbl. 4d 67c J 0 . , „
.A 1 «. t 1 j si ' Barbadocrs 8-.-
co f Oak. pr.M feet, 9a xoi 1 r \t r r
o », u c-/ j 1 Country, N. E. 67c
H | Merch. pine 10a 17a - ' '
Sap, do. 8d Salt petre, pr. cwt. \%i33^l4^
q j N.£ng. xi d Sdffafrai pr. ton 6d 8i
l_Cedar Shot 140^
The above are the Shallop price*; (German pr.lb. p£
Jor the Yardptices ada id 33c w } Lnglifh, bliflered cwtici/
pr. Al. American pr. ton ;i3^33^
BrimfVone rolls pr.cwt. 33c <n ( Crowley's pi. fag icct' 67^
Beef, Boston 8d Snake root pr. lb. 2cc 42c
Country 6d 7d Soap, Brown 6c
Butter pr. lb. 14c White 8c
in kegs 9c 10c Castile 1 i<r
£ fSper. pr.lb. 43c Starch
| Wax 53c 56c Snuff pr. doz. bot. $d€cc
Q<( Myrtle Wax 13c Spermaceti, re fined, 48c
| Mould,tallow nc Sail cloth, English, "J ~
cj 10c No 1, per yard, J
Cheese, English, pr. lb. 19c Boston. No. I. 30c
Country BciOc No. 11. 29c
Chocolate 17c 18c Ruflia lheeting. pr.p. iid
Cinnamon id 40c 2d 67c ("Lump, pr.lb £4;
Cloves 1 d 10c I Loaf, (ingle refined 26*;
Coal pr. bushel 20c 22c < J Ditto, double do. 36c
Cocoa pr.cwi. 141/67 c 1 Havannah, white 1708 c
Coffee pr. lb. 20c £ Ditto, brown, 15c
Copperas pr.cwt. 1 d6~c L Mufco.pr.cwt
Cordage ydSjcSd Spirits Turpentine p. g. 33f 37c
Cotton pr.lb. 26c 33c f Allum pr. bull). 24C2 c
Currants 29c
Duck, RuHia, pr. piece lidwc 23c 24c
Ravens %d 93c gd 67c 1/5 (Lisbon 25c 27c
Feathers pr. lb. 40c 44c Shipbuild. W. o.*j ,
Flax 11c 12c frames p. ton, j 1 *3 33
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 85c 90c Do. LO. is<f 33c i6<f 67c
Flour, Super, pr. bbl. 4 a 80c Do. red cedar, p. t. 33 c 40c
Common, \d 40c Shingles, fa. p. M. id 33c 2^67
Bur middlings,beH Do. long drefled 12^13^33^
Meal, Indian id 52c Scantling,heart, *%d9x
di:to Rye, id 67c Sap 8a 8i 6~d
Ship-ftuff pr.cw. \d
Fuilic pr. ton, iod
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe, 4d 67c
Do. pr. gall. Boc
Glue, pr.cwt. 20 d lid 33c
Ginger, whiterace "jd
Ditto, common 7d
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 8c
Ginseng, 2cc 24 c
Gunpowder, can- > , Ad
non, pr. q. c. > 0 J *
Ditto, fine glazed 4d
f Wheat pr. bush 9cc
i R>e 5V
5 | Oats 26c
< Indian corn 40c
; Barley 90c
Bed (helled pr. lb. 3c
[ Buckwheat per bush. 40c
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, 146. 67c
American, pr. !b. 4c 5c
Herrings, pr. bbl. id 67c
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9c lic
Hops
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 15d
Indigo, French lb. id 10c id 33c
Carolina 404 id
Irons, fad pr. ton, 33c
(" Caflings pr. cwt 3d 47c
55 | Bar pr. ton, 82d 6;c
C pig 67c
£ | Sheet 173^33^
{_ Nail rods 9oi
Jank, pr. cwt. $d
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9c ice
Lead in pigs pr.c. 5^6/C
in bars id
Lead, white lodiodS^c
red 6d 40 c6d6 c
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 17c 20c
Lignum vitae pr. ton, $d6oc6d
Logwood i\d
Mace pr.lb. 7^33 c &" c
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. 9d
■flcond quality 6d 67c
Madder, best pr. lb. 16c 20c
Marble.wrought, pr.f. I^33*2*/
Ma ft spars 33c 67c
Molasses pr. gall. 44c 50c
Mustard per. lb. 87c
Mahogany pr. foot, 10c
Nails, iodi2d and 20d 10c
Nutmegs pr. lb. -d 8d
" Linseed, pr. gall. 65167 c
Olive 87c
Ditto pr. cafe, 2d 50c
, Beftfwettin ) ,
=2 flafts.pr.box \ l 0i S°'
—balkets 12 bottles $d
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
Train 24c 2~c
_ Whaie 22c 28*
Porter pr. cask, $d 33c
London,pr.doz. 1 d6oc
Porter, American ) , , c
, * » , > \dsc\dboc
pr.002. bo .incl.
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC.)
THE SUBSCRIBER HATH OPENED A
House of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES,
In that commodious House lately occupied by Thomas Bea.c t t v
Mayor of this Town.
He lias furniftied himfcll with a stock ot the best Liquors, an
will use every exertion 10 give fatisfa&ion by procuring, in i
season, the best of every species of provision, and having the fame
ferveH up in the mod neat and elegant manner.
[lavviftjul.] GEORGE H. LEIGH.
s
C Pipe pr. ioco 29d
• W. O. hogshead Igd 38c
> J R, O. do. 19d5c
< | Lcogan 2id c
Barrel led
L Heading 67c
'Otter, best pr. pie. 4</6;c
Minks 20c 40c
Fox, grey 40,- Rr.i
ird l d 20c
5/5 Martins 24*"
5 <1 Fjfherf 33' 67c
£ I B " rs >
Racoons 27c 60;
Mufk>rats iicscl
Beaver, pr. lb. 67c 33'
Deei, in hair 20c 3c.
Tar,N. Jerfcy, 24 gal. p. bbl. ii
—Carolina, 32 gall.
Turpentine pi.bbl. \d 6jc 2d
f James R. best 60c 73 c
.0 inferior 3-
§ old
Rappahannock zd 50c&L
q Colo.Maryland s d 33 cSd
O Dark.
U Long-leaf 4<*
2 Eaftern-lhore %i 2d 93c
O ! Carolina,new ai 7c 3^
H L old d°-
[ Hyson pi. lb. 93c\d 28c
co I Hyson (km, S3 C^'C
< <( Souchong,
£ | Congo, 43 c 5 0C
3 0c 33 c
Tallow, refined 9 C
Tin pr. Ijox, 13d 33c 67c
Veidigreafe pr. lb 47 c .53 f
Vermillion idffiidb'C
Varnilh, 33 c 37 c
' Madeira, pr.p.\z6dzood
Lilbon g6diocd
Teneriffe, pr. gal. s* c6cc
Fayal 44 £ 49«
2 J Port pr. p. ic6d 67c nod
- Do. in bottles,pr.doz. 44
£ Claret A d 6d
Sherry pr.gall. goc idice
Malaga 77' 8m
Tar,
—C;
Turi
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 24c W
While-bone,long pr.lb. i3C3 0c
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days pr-ct. above par.
6odaysi|> ditto.
30 aays 2 ) pr.ct. above par.
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 37
90 day* 3$& c
Government bills, drav-n at 10
days per 11 guilders, 44 c
France, 60 days
I
V