A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 21, of Vol. IV.]
FROM THE AM ERIC AX MUSEUM.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE of the UNION
Concerning the Banks eJiabliJJiedin the United States.
THESE valuable institutions were unknown
to us before the revolution, being added
to the political economy in the latter part of
the war. The paper emiflions in the times of
the provinces, had yielded some of the advan-
tages of bank notes, though with less fafety to
those who received them.
which they were unavoidably recurred to, in
the course of the war, had completely destroyed
the utility of paper money in 1781
ot'public credit, and indeed of the public affairs
in general, as well as the exigencies of the cul-
tivators, merchants, and manufacturers, re-
quired an efficient substitute for an inftruinent
of negociation and dealing, of so great compass.
The scheme of a bank presented itfelf in the
manner, which is univerfaily known, as the
moll probable mean of accommodating the ge-
neral neceilities, political, agricultural, and
commercial.
The proniifes, which the plan
made, were abundantly fulfilled : and at the
fame tune a standard of public conduct and ac
tion in regard to the rights of property, was
linobfervediy eretted, at a moment when the
recent couil'e of events had rendered it very
deurabie, as well from political as moral confi-
de ations. It has been found, accordingly,
that the laws which concern property, in the
place> where banks have been established, have
quickly acquired a (lability, if they were good,
and have meliorated, if they were before ex-
ceptionable, notwithftandmg any supposed or
real errors in the plans or administration of the
institutions.
In reflecting upon these eftablifnments, one
cannot but call to mind a suggestion, which
frequently occurs, that too large a portion o1
the capital of the United States, has been appli-
Ed to them, Few pecuniary operations are of
as much importance. In eitimating the extent
to which we might have goi:e with prudence,
an examination of the It ate of that bulinefs in
a fuccefsful and at the fame time the best known
icene of trade in Europe, may be of iome use.
In the cis yof London, the bank oi' r.ngland (ex-
clufivel v of that of Scotland) has operated witl
a capital of more than fifty millions of dollars
about forty-lix years. The population of En-
gland, on a medium, during tnat term, has been
less than double that of the United States at
present ; yet the capital of its bank has been
above live times the capital of our national
bank, and near five times the amount of all
the l'ubfcriptions which are yet paid into all the
banks in the United States. There are, more
over, a great number of private banks in the
fame city, probably not less than sixty in num-
ber, some of which have more capital ltock,than
any bank in this country, except that of the
United States. The aggregate amount of their
capitak is probably equal to that of the bank
of England. Besides these, there are very ma
ny considerable private banks flattered through
the kingdom. In addition to these, there are
t!ie public and the private banks of Scotland.
If the banks of England and Scotland, public
and private, out of London, be equal to the
private banks of London alone, then the capi-
tal of those institutions in Great Britain, will
be 150,000,000 dollars, or above fourteen times
as many dollars as there are persons in that
kingdom, though the whole of the flocks of the
bank", in the United States, which are paid in,
are not equal to three times the number of their
inhabitants. Again. If the banks of Great
isritain be measured by the exports of that if- \
land, it will be found, that the latter, at their
higneft value (ninety millions of dollars) are on
ly three fifths of their aggregate bank capital,
and that our exports, at 18,250,000 dollars, are
above two thirds more than all our bank capi-
taJ, which is attuaHy paid in. Taking the Bri
tish imports at 80,000,000 of dollars, and those
of the United States at 24,000,000, the compa-
ri on will be liill more in favour of the discreti
on,whichlias been observed in the United States.
But a very important measure of these .institu
tions yet remains to be applied, by which pru
dent men will be dilpofed to test the fubjed.—
t'.e quantity of Jpecic. The bank capital of Great
Britain being, as above stated, about 150 mil
lions of do Jars, and the quantum of specie be
ing never estimated at more than 22,000, 0001.
sterling, or 97,700,000 dollars, the aggregate
bank capitals of the United States, as now paid
"in (ten and one half millions of dollars) would
be as prudently, aud iblidly founded on a quan
tity of specie a little less than lcven millions of
dollars. Although it would be impoflible to as
certain the precise amount of the lpecie of the
United States, eltimates carefully made, appear
to warrant a belief, that it is equal to thatfum.
But while examinations like these fecm to a
bate and even entirely to deftrov the apprehen
lion, that we may have pursued the business of
banking to the injury of agriculture, manufac
tures, and commerce, some circumstances of a
prudential nature are not to be overlooked.
When forming these establishments, we may
commit errors, perhaps, in carrying into one
scene too great a proportion of the capital ap
propriated te their creation. Hence the found
policy of 1 lib trailing from the niafs of the bank
of the United State*, to eftablilh branches at
New-York, Bolton, Baltimore, Chaiiefton, and
(as is intended) hi Virginia, ministering to the
convenience, the necelfities, and the interests
of government, the planter, the farmer, the
merchant, the navigator, the fifherman, the
ihipbuilder, the manufacturer and the mecha-
liic, in fix ll'veral and variant fcertes, instead of
accumulating"in"one greatmafs, a fuperabun-l
dant capital—a political magnet attracting,
through devious courles, and attaching all things
to itss owq vicinitv.
But the degree in
It is poflible to err, too, in the disposition of
banking eflablifhments, by luperadding to thole
which already accommodate a particular scene,
rather than introducing the new institutions in
to places hitherto without them. The United
States contain fiye or fix great local I'ubdiviii
ons of trade, resulting principally from the im
perious dictates of the nature o}' things. 111 most
of those great spheres, there is more than one
considerable and flourilhing town, though there
is in each, one which has an acknowledged pie
eminence. When a reasonable portion of bank
capital has been introduced into one of these
commercial metropoles y the establishment of a
new bank would Teem to be most expedient in
the trading town of the next degree of confide
ration. It is true, that so far as the operation
The state
is an employment, or application of the proper
ty of individuals, it must be left (within the
laws) to their own will, but as the ast of in
corporation places the fubjedt within the pow
er of the legifiatures, and within the sphere of
their cares and duties, so it is highly important
that these institutions be modified in their ori
ginal formation, upon principles of distributive
justice, in regard to the reasonable accommoda
tion of the marts of commerce within their
sphere of legislation, and of all the landed citi
zens, who resort to them for the sales 01" their
furpins produce, or the purchase of their ftip
plies.
A precious consequence has resulted from the
distribution of banks through different parts of
the United States. Like all great objects,
these institutions, while operating very betieiti
cially in regard to the bnfinefs of a country, are
liable to be rendered instrumental to local par
ty views. Being committed, as in the United
States, to ten several boards of oi re&ors, seleCt
ed for the service on account of their property,
integrity, talents, and attention
and whole primary duties are the legal,difcrect,
and beneficial execution of their trust, it is not
probable, nor, indeed, is it in their to
deviate from their proper walk, into the ground
of political combination and intrigue.
A circumstance observable in the bank of the
United States, will not fail to attract the at
tention of cautious men. The portion of pub
lic debt, which enters into the composition oi
their stock, is the particular contemplated. In
this refpeft, the bank of England, and the bank
of Ireland (which are among the best accredited
of those institutions in Europe) exceed that of
the United States in the proportion of one third.
It is very favorable to our institution, that the
national debt, and ordinary and extraordi
nary cxpenfes of both Great-Britain and
Ireland are much greater in proportion to
wealth and numbers, than those of the United
States, and that our government is not lels free
from error, nor more likely to bedifturbed than
theirs. It cannot, therefore, be more unfafe
to confide in our institution, which contains
three fourths, than in theirs which is wholly |
composed of public debt. It is, moreover,true, I
and worthy of observation, that molt of the o
ther banks in the United States (and particu
larly the three largest) have voluntarily and by
their own operations placed considerable porti
ons of their stock upon the credit of the United
States, by purchafmg largely of the public debt,
and by giving at this time extensive credits
founded upon its security. The market value
of the public debt, which is generally greater
in specie than its nominal amount, renders that
part of the bank stock, which is composed of it,
intrinsically more valuable than that which is
in com.
Delivered b\ the Ch ie f J ust ice of the United States,
to the Grand Jury ojthe Circuit Court oj Veimont,
held at Benuington, the 'isth June.
Gentlemen of the Grand Jury,
TO contemplate offences, and to preteribe pu
nishments, are unpleafing but neceffar) talks;
being imposed by the nature of civil society, and
by those vices which often prompt individuals to
violate the rights ot othere.
All hough no propofnion is more true, than that
the intcreits and the duties of men are infeparablc,
yet it is unfortunately and equally tTue, that their
condutl dees not always correspond with the
eellent principle. Accurate ideas of intercll arc
far from being universal; and even of those who
know what is right, the number is not inconfi.
derablc, whom the delusion or lorce of predomi
nant pailions daily fcduce or impel to do wiong.
Hence it is that governments or laws which arc
calculated only on the virtues of mankind, always
terminate in difordcr and difappoiutmcnt, while,
on the contrary, those which legard only their
v ces are generally marked by opprcflion and un-l
j due fcvciity. Both should be considered with
I equal attention, or a juil cftimate of their influence
Saturday, August ii, i 79 2 *
(to be continued.)
CHARGE,
81
and operation cannot be formed,nor a proper mean
between the two extremes observed. It is pleai-
ing to remark, that the national laws appear to
have been mindful of both; for while they meet
tranfgrcflion with punilhment, their mildnels ma
nilcfts much confidence in the reason and virtue of
the peoplr. A confidence which the commenda
ble ohfervance of these laws has fully juftified.
Lei me remind you, gentlemen, that in all lo
cieties there will be individuals whose conduit
acknowiedges no morality but convenience ; and
who can only be restrained from offences by mo
tives adapted to their ideas of interest—that is, by
penalties and by puniftimertt. Proceed ihen to
inquire, whether any or vibat offences against the
nauortal laws have been committed, and by whom,
within this diiirift: Or on the high seas by per-
sons in or belonging to it. All oficnces from trea
son to misdemeanors are the objects of your en-,
quirv. It is important that none of the laws be l
violated with impunity, for being al! made for the
good, and by the authority of the people, it is
highly intercfting to the prosperity and honor of
the nation, that they be refpefted and observed :
But as they differ in degrees of importance, it is
proper that your attention, although extended to
ail, ftiould in a particular mariner be directed to
those, whofc objects are of the greaJefl magnitude,
and whofc due obfcrvance more immediately con
cerns the public prosperity.
Of this jefcription are those that refpt ft the re
venue—that revenue, which is t« afford funds for
the fuppoit of our government, and confcquently
of our rights and liberties; and for the payment
of those debts which were contrasted for their de
fence and establishment— debtj» which we are un-
der the highest moral as well as political obliga
tions to discharge with ihc utmost punctuality and
good faith.
Among the laws made fr»r these purposes, there
is one, whose name and obj 61 have rendered it li
able to misrepresentation, and to imputations ii
docs not me?it— I mean the one commonly called
the excise aft—firm la r names are apt to excite si- 1
milar ideas and prejudices; but things and not
names ought to decide our judgments. Enlight
ened citizens wi!l*fee and judge for themfeives,
and thereby avoid she rifquc of those impofnions
; by which artifiee usually dupes ignorance and cre
dulity. This ast in its provisions bears fcarcejy
any refembl2nce to those in Britain, which have
rendered their very titles odious. They who will
be at the trouble or comparing the ast in question
with them, will find that it ornirs and avoids all
those improper intruiions on domestic rights, and
♦ii wii;ch have and
ever will and ought to excitc the margin^..—
free people.
The United Stales present to the world an un
precedented instance of a nation providing for all
their pecuniary exigencies, without having any
recourfc to dirctt taxation; or burthening the
ldiias, ar any of its pioduflions, with the Icail im
post or duty.
Should fraud be pra&ifed and permitted to pie
vail, the present happy system would cease to at
lord adequate fupplics; and neceflny would con
(train us to adopt modes of taxation less confiften
with our feelings, and in fcvcral refpetts more in
-.onvenient. Let it be remembered, that this rc
•enue is the people's revenue— that the governmen
tisto iupport, is the people's government—tha
he debts it is to pay, are the people's debts ; an<
onfequently, that they who defraud the revenue
lefraud the people.
Among the crimes fpecified in what isgenerall
ailed the penal statute, there are two so danger
us to society, as always to mn it particular atten
ion—l mean the crime of perjury, and the crun
if forgery.
Independent of the abominable insult whio
>eijury offers to the Divine Being, there is no crim
riore extrvfively pernicious to society. It disco
ou r s and poisons the flieams of jultice, and b
übftituting falfehood for truth, saps the tounda
ion of perlcnal and public rights. Controvcrfie
• f various kinds exist at all times, and in all com
nunities—to decide them, courts of juflice are in
lituted; their decision mnft be regulated by evi
ience ; and the greaieft part of evidence will al
vays confill of the tellimotiy of witness —thi
eflimony is given under those solemn obligation!
rvhich an appeal to the God of truth imposes ;
f oaths should ccafe to be held sacred, our dcarei
md mod valuable rights would become insecure.
Forgt-ry involve* and argue> no common degre
>f turpitude and guih—although paflions canno
egally juftify or excufc crimes, yet their impull
orr.ctimes drives nun to commit cu'rages; whic!
n their cooler moments, they disapprove and rc
> rit of. The public good re quires that they he pu
lifhed, but they are neverthelels to be pitied. Hu
ie who commits forgery, has no violence of paflioi
o prompt, or palliate his con iuft. W'rh a hear
ontaminated with guilt, and a mind pollute*
vith iniquitous riefties snd defiens, he calmly an<
lelihemely piepare!. and begins his work.; an.
vith paiiencc and with caution pnrfnes it. II
etires as usual to his bee, and from interval to in
erval regulaily rcfjnus his task in (llence, in fe
recy, and in solitude undidurbed he prepares t*
lo injustice to his neighbors and ieliow citizens—
vith care and circumfreclion be K lefts those
vhofe credulity, ignorance, or unsuspicious confi
fence lender them the moll tafy prey; and ex
its the utmofl powers of thought and refleftioi
o render fraud «md iniquity fuccv Uiul. The foll\
if all bad men is to be irgreticcJ ; but the punifh
nent of perfens so deliberately wicked, can merit
cry little compaflion.
In a country like this, where paper of various
.inds has become a medium in all our pecuniary
ranfa£tions, forgery should be vigilantly watched,
nd ftvercly punilhcd ; ior, whenever theauthci.-
[Whole No. 435.]
ficity of paper becomes questionable its credit
mult dimiuilh, its currency be checked, and it«
utility deftioyed. II an injudicious and unjuftifi
able tenderneis lor these attiocious offenders Ihould
increase their numbers, and encourage their prac
tices ; their arts would extend to every objcO, ou
-which this species ot fraud could opeiate. Wills
and deed> not ot our osvn making, would incum
ber, endanger, and m many mitauces, dispose ot
our eflatcs ; efpecially-.it perjury ihould give to the
works of forgery numerous witnefic* to prove
their truth and authenticity.
That government may produce the benefits from
it, it is highly icquifite that their officers faithfully
do the duties of their refpettive stations. I have
no realon to fufpeli that any of them have a&ed.
otherwise than virtuously and worthily; but it is
nevertheless proper that attention be regularly paid
Ito their conduit, and that no instance of corrupt
or unlawful a els or omiflions pass unnoticed, thac
there be r.n exa&ions in public offices, nor any of
those reprehensible pra&ices tolerated, which un
der various forms and pretexts disgrace both the
officers and the government.
So tar as the prosperity of the people depenrf#
on a due observance of their laws, and so far as a
due observance of the laws dependson the detec
tion and punishment of tranfprrefiois ; so far, gen
tlemen, you ate responsible to the public for the
diligence and care with which your duties may be
fulfilled.
Be vigilant on the one hand ; be temperate on
the other. He cautious not to pay too liule, or
too great, refpeft to flight circumstances. Offend
ers know the value of silence and fccrecy ; and e
vidence, apparently trivial, often leads to evidence
plain and fatisfa&oiy. First, diligently inquire,
and then matuiely whether your evidence
be such as to juftify your making prrfentments, or
lo juftify your omitting to make them. Let u&
ftnkc at the guilty, but be carelul not to wound
the innocent. ,
Your oath fuperadds new and folcmn obligati
ons to those which result from the laws of moral
ity, ag.-untt your permitting any partialities, oc
any paflions to warp or mislead your judgments,
you are callcd upon to look to the affairs of the na
tion in tnisdiftnci, I presume that you will find
them in good order. Governments in manv rc
fpe&s must a£l like individuals. When our affairs
are out pi order, we (hould 'ook to them to put
them in order—and when our affairs are in good
order, we Ihould look to them to keep them fp.
For these purposes you gentlemen are the eyes
of the public in this dii\n£l ; and being perfuacied
that you will dire& and keep them lixed on the
3 uty*?a nli I u 11y r , l" i ■ Sulfa Wlßlii'fli
w|iich have already been submitted to your conft
deration.
Extract from the Albany Gazette of
Augujl 2
" AN appeal to the people is to be hazarded on
very extraordinary occasions only ; perhaps no
cafe will juftify it but an elTential ciefcft in the
conditution. It is impolUble to forefee or fore
tell the dangers of a diiTolulion ot government ;
none can know where it will end or what efta
bliftiment will be next. The moment that ihe
people put mtoexcrcile that sovereign right of re ?
fuming their delegated powers, all tornis ot go
vernment cease, and theie remains no rule but that
ot the pa (lions, which arc as uncontroulable as the
winds ; what deltru£lion they may produce, or
what dire£lion they may take,is totally uncertain ;
and it is an equal chance whether ihey fettle final
ly in the extremes of licentiousness or defpoiilm.
41 I know it to be the wishes of many, perhaps
they would carry with them the majority of the
state, that an opportunity might be afforded to
give our condttution more of * democratical cast.
It is to be feared, that in attempting to cUface
what they call us aristocratic features ihey would
vitally wound the excellencies tor which it is now
famed ; and those who are moil lorward to urge
on the drama, would have reason to rue the day on
which they took a part in it. The volunteer toall*
ot the mechanics of New-York, one of the most
numerous class of citizens, on the late anniversary
of independence, is but a spark escaped from the
pent up fires of a vulcano ; and will fuggdt, to the
mind of one who bu; a tew years ago has fecn
what disorders entered the field of politics, as soon
as soon as the fences ot government were thrown
down, presages of no dcfirable afpett. What
other toails may yet be in reserve, may baffle the
profoundeft politician** refcarches. On the con-
trary, we kuow there are opinions prevailing, that
it would promote our peace and welfaie, if the
interference of the people, in the appointment of
their officers, were more limitted than it is. In
New-Jeriey the governor is appointed by the It—
giflature, and as we now have a national president
and legifLture, they naturally prcfent to us ano
ther cafier mode of obtaining such an ofneer thaa
the turbulent one on which we have pra&ifed."
* May the happy period J'oon arrive when every civil
officer fliall be immediately elected by the people.
Wm. cleland,
BOSTON,
Tranfa&s business in the Funds of the United
States;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, See.
Q3* Orders from New-York, Philadelphia,-or
any other part of t'ae Union, -will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality.
June 1
(epim *4 iazu2m)Foreign Affairs.
N A M'U R, May 8. |
THE repairs node oir our fortifi
cations, and the train on our two
batteries, place us beyond the.fear of
any surprise, and M. de Moittel has
retired into the castle, with a fufficient
number of troops to defend it against
all attacks.
FRANKFORT, May 10.
It is already said, that during the
fle&ion of an Emperor, a camp of
12,000 Hessians will be formed in our
environs. We learn that the garri
son of Caflel had began its march, on
the jth inft. for this place.
VIENNA, May ?
The following letter fromtheKing
of Hungary to Prince Stahremberg,
written on receiving the news of the
declaration of war against him by
France, will fliew how little he ex
pedted such an event :
"I am fort y, my dear Pt ince, to in
form you that France has provoked me
to a war, when I had but just mount
ed the throne of my ancestors. 1 have
done nothing to draw on me this war,
witness my last declaration to France ;
and a proof of it is, that I am not in
the least prepared for it. Inform my
dear States and faithful fubjecfls of
the Upper and Lower-Austria, that
they need not be chagrined ; that I
will not aggrieve them, for two years,
with any extraordinary imposition ;
to that purpose I have agreed, with
my brethren, to appropriate our en
tire heritage and all the property of
ourancellors. It is evident the French
attack us merely becaafe we follow
the late system of the late Emperor
our Father, who would not long fuf
fer the injuftice3 of a combination of
perverse men, who have not heft
tated to permit the most unworthy
treatment of the King of France, his
brother-in-law, and of the Queen
his "filter."
> T R E V E S, May 12.
It is impossible toexprefsthe joy of
the French emigrants. The decla
ration of war has not only fixed the
uncertainty of the powers who lulled
1 I , 1 1 1 1111 II 1111 I I II li |j I
eluded ; but the commencement of
the campaign has filled them with
hopes of the mod brilliant fnccefs.
Besides the Austrian account of the
r.ffairs at Mons and Tournay, they
have cai'.fed the following lift to be
ptiblifhed :
Lift of Frenchmen arrived at Treves,
from the $th to the nth of May, both
ddys included.
May 4. Arrived 42 officers, of the
regiment of Poitou, and several sol
diers.
May 5. 28 officers of artillery, of
the garrison of Metz, and some sol
diers.
May 6. r j officers of artillery, of
Metz, and ij citizens well armed and
mounted, who brought with them
50,000 livres in specie. This day we
learn, that a camp for 14,000 Emi
grants has been traced out on the
borders of German Lorraine.
May 7. jo officers of different rern
ments. a
May 8. 12 officers of the regiment
oFAlface. This evening, we receiv
ed advice of the paflage of a large
1 arty of the regiment of Berchiny.
May 9 . A courier has brought in
formation of the emigration of 150
of the regiment of Berchiny—the re
mainder had found the paflage closed
up by a regiment of chafleurs.— This
evening the Colonel and twelve of
ficers of the regiment of Royal-Lo
raine arrived, with arms and barrage
May r°. At J2 o'clock we leafni
hat the whole °f the regiment of
Royal-Allemand cavalry was within
two leagues of Treves, demanding
permission to enter, and that they had
not eaten any thing f or upwards of
fourteen hours : 4 000 French officers
immediately loaded five carriages
with provisions, and went to mfet
then, . the i,gnal of knowing each
other was « Vive U Roi,' and hoiif
ing the white cockade ; a large vef
fel of wine was purchased from a
farmer ; forthwith fifty emigrants
•equefted to be introduced to re
giment ; this moving scene was fol
lowed by drinking the healths of the
King, the King of Hungary, the Elec
tor, and the brave regiment.
May ii. A courier informs, that
the whole of the regiment of Saxe
was in full march towards Arlons and
Luxembourg, to join the army of the
Princes.
COBLENTZ, May 17.
On the nth the archives and trea
sure of the Chapter of Treves were
brought in a number of chests, and
placed in our fortrefs for security,
for fear of an attack upon the fron
tiers of Treves.
Tiie AuDrian troops have received
orders to hasten theirarrival at Lan
dau as much as poflible by forced
marches
' The arrival ofemigrants and French
deserters is so great that in thecourfe
of a few days their number amounts
to near five hundred.
BERLIN, May
The Prince Royal, Prince George
de Hefle Darmstadt, the Prince de
Bade, the Princess de Radzival, Ge
neral Rodhich, from Potzdani, Duke
Charles Eugene de Wurtemberg,from
the Empire ; General Prince Eugene
[de Wurtemberg, from Silesia, and
Countd'Einfiedel, the Saxon Minister,
from Dresden, are all arrived in this
capital.
BRUSSELS, June 5.
On the 2d instant, a declaration
was published lure, in the name of
the King of Hungary, permitting all
French veflels, not loaded with war
like stores, to enter freely the port
of Oftend.—This permission is to con
tinue so long as the French nation
(hall fuffcr the veflels belonging to
the King,to carry 011 their commerce
unmolested.
Field Marshal Bender is arrived
here, having resigned the command
of the army to Count de Clairfayt.—
He is to be appointed Governor of
the province of Lexembnrn. M. de
Clairfayt has already made several
new arrangements in the army. Since
his arrival the camp is in much bet
ter condition than before. No atfiion
has lately taken place with the French;
but from the movements of both ar
mies since yesterday, we may expert
to hear of some important aiftfoti.
■■--rr-. THMy Uay Bear, ffiat
of Pruflia will be at Coblentz on the
t6th, where his advanced guard is al
ready arrived.
The movements of the Austrian
troops are not certainly known, al
though some detachments arrive oc
casionally.
PARIS, Jnne
It vras yesterday reported that the
Auftrians, under the command of
Charles Prince de Lignehad beat our
troops within two miles of Conde.
The particulars are not known—nor
is tlie report to be depended upon.
La Fayette's army improves in disci
pline ; and he is calumniated and in
tuited by the Jacobins in proportion
as he displays atfiivicy among his
troops. It is even reported that a
plot has been formed to aflaffinate
1)1131
LONDON, May 29.
The !ate desertions among the
French troops having been left tfFed
e<l by the fedurtion, than by the
treachery of the officers, the princes
will have but little reason to confine
in men who are thus betrayed, or ra
ther kidnapped into their service.
Lord Howe is appointed Vice-Ad
miral of England, in the room of
Lord Rodney. The emoluments of,
rhis office are supposed to be from
nveto (even hundred a year.
June t. Yesterday government dis
patches were received at Lord Gren-
Mnrr* G r' Whfehall, from Sir
Morton Eden, his majesty's Envoy at
Berhn, which mentioned that 'the
[IvingofPruffiahasleft that capitol
and is now at the head of the army!
win k Parl,ame " t » we understand,
will be prorogued on the I2th i„ft.
and the slave-trade, as we mentioned
nev/f f| mer papcr ' ad j° u ' »ed over to
next leflion
Mr. Ha (lings has presented a peti
tion to the King, praying that his tri
al may p. oceed for 6 days in f ucce f.
fion, ln which he thinks lie shall be
able to clole his defence.
rp-p' l ? !lt "rday dispatches were
eived at the Secretary of Stale's
82
jofice, irom Mr. Walpole, Ins Wajef
tf'i Envoy at the court of Lisbon,
: c3»taining an account, of the Qaeen;
of Portugal being so much recovered,
that Dr. Willis had given bis opinion
that he had not tire least apprenfions
of any relapse.
June 8. The City of Exeter has ad
drefied the King, thanking him for
the Proclamation.
The town of Manchester, follow
ing the example of other loyal towns,
has agreed toaddrefs the King, thank
ing him for the proclamation. In
deed it would have been fuprifing if
the country at large had not aifted as
they have done, for the wisdom of it
is mar.ifefl to every person except to
a few discontented individuals who
make it a practice to oppose every
measure of government, or to those
whose seditious measures may be af
fedled by it.
The intended Camp at Baglhot is
given up. What might have been
the necessity for forming it, there is
now no occalion for any foch mea
sure ; the nation at large is unani
mous, and fufficient to prevent any
tumult.
The vigilance of governmet in
quelling the riots in Mount-street has
had the desired effecft ; and it is with
pleasure we fay, that every thing
was yeljerday in a (late of tranqui
lity. We do not learn that any per
son has been killed, and the temper,
ate condu& of the military on this
occalion deserves every commenda
tion.
We can state, from the best autho
rity, that Mr. Dundas has given di
rections to M-r. Bond to enquire into
the coudu&of the Peace Officers who
took up the persons on Monday night
and confined them in the Mount
llreet watch house ; and to inform
those who were apprehended, that
whatever charges of mifcondu(si they
may. have against the Officers, he will
very readily hear their complaints,
and grant them any redress the cafe
may seem to require ; for while it is
the duty of the Police to prevent dis
orderly meetings, it can never be
their intention to interfere with the
innocent amufenients of the people.
Extratt of a litter from Paris, May 2
" Last week a patroJe of national
guards discovered in the middle of
the night, in the Place de Louis XV.
a detachment of Sans Culottes, who
wereVeparing to decapitate the ffa
tue of that monarch. These repub
licans were armed with hammers and
axes. Tbey informed the guards,
that they had regularly tried this
monarch before their special tribunal,
and it having been proved, that he
had been wickedly, raflily, and ill
advil'edly guilty of high treason a
gainst the nation, sentence of deca
pitation had been passed upon him,
which they were going to executeac
cordingly. These magiltrates were
conduced to prison by the national '
guards, without refpecfl for their \
high assumed office."
his majesty's birth day
The Qneen wore the mod costly
and beautilul dress that ever appear
ed at court. It was a silver tiflue bo
dy and train, bordered with lilac, o
ver which was a covering of lace.
The petticoat gree:; filk,covered with
one piece of BrufleSs lace fix yards
wide, and one and an half long, the
only work of the kind ever made ;
over the petticoat was a loose drapery
of lilac silk, covered with lace, tied
up with branches of diamonds mount
ed as snow drops, with bows and loole
taiiels of diamonds hanging from
them. The bottom was flounced with
lace, headed with rows of diamonds.
Her majesty's head, dress was very
profufely ornamented with diamonds,
and she wore a diamond stomacher,
with a miniature of the King.
Each bouquet of her majelty's pet
ticoat had a central (lone 111 the ro-
fette valued at 20001. the rosette, in
eluding this (tone, is valued at 30001.
and the bouquets, of which there were
fix, at 80001. each. Adding to the
amount of these, that of the other
diamonds upon the petticoat, and
those upon the head dress and fto
mncher, the dress worn by her ma
jeiiy yesterday could not be worth
less than ioo,oool. and the taste dis
played in the arrangement of the
hole was well suited to luch an ex
penditure.
pj., , " '
FSite ri g y h" r r r- >• r
boih as tranllator and editor a
ed me of the contrary. ' " c c °nvi !:[ .
I think this tribute due i
not htfitate to pay it • f or ~i.L™ n ? or ' i,
the National Gazette a- ha ■ ° Ug 1 '""fa"
ous tendency, and bei„ Ee ,! g? ■*
didurb the public peaj, "j*" 1
of the people, Iha ve not' w W tbe ®»*
either to the Gazette itfelf or , **
At the fame time allov m e t ' tS &
however I may have miftakenVrTi!*
meaning, the information given |1'« , 4t
ritan," (trongly countenanc-- .' 1 "*
tatfi. that he receiver nnv i 1 l "'top
—to V. !iich I Will acid/tliat a ' i C '' r^:
ing the National Gazett-r ' ,ngu,ar:t 72tli I
-ul A • . ~ tre > ,eei nstOfnmA 1
tw American s afierti«n*—if • r-> roiw * \
P. Freneau," and "Wd
Swaine"-It w ;i, hardly be th„X V*
infer irom this, that Mr. Frr.™." ■ ■ '
the editor ; can it be fupjiofed th!," " at ,Kf
his time to this i ' E ° ,f ' '
I apprehend not: fufert rea.C^
_ J . .1 ICdlOnS R||iy|<» I
urged to the contrary. tyho V I;
If any body does, then hereceive^J %.
f rM " tni^ a tor to the department of f--it
and as editor [or compiler, I don', care
If hei s in the r , of
C.Hi.ds and Swaine, he is at least fvi'» c■
Hfnrta fn «• " 1 Pl'ty Ofljicrv. i
tituoe to tne government which hi •
him as translator M t lj e depart
•or, as editor or compiler, hi, attack,upcrS I
government are both freeppr.' r ' I
-Ifon the other handset
government, his conduct forcibly rei rr I
the Fable of the Viper which WViWi"\"'
Countryman, the genial varmth of rt t ' ( w
10m had reanimated its frozen carcase.
MB
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THL UNlTL^Jij^
T^Av.TS, Mr. Fenno, {peak louder thaewnrdr
f and » ( under certain circumstance?. Icnfo
tnin oath-, rhe Editor of the NatiokhG..
ZETTEmuft not tnink to swear awav tleiref.
cacy. ii ne is truly as they
honed tool of the public character who bastes
named, no violation of truth, iq an? h:-, ».
to aftonifn—equivocations and zt-\
reservations, are the too common i
minds ftruggiing to escape from difgrarefiin.
putatior,*.
It may be very true in a literal fink,tic: m
negotiation was ever opened vithAfr.Fb.tat,
by Thomas Jeflerfon, Secretary of State, ;:i
vet it may be very certain, that a rew
was opened with him directly, or circu to :
! by a particular friend of that ex:<( .
] tat ion given of his patronage and encourage
ment.
It may be very true in the fame ferJe, fe
Mr. Freneaii's coming to the city of Phihde!-
p!iia r as publilher of a newspaper, wis at re
time nrged, advised or influenced, by the fame
officer; and yet itmaybeenually3f2ct.tr
it was urged, advised and influenced,by xjnd
los his, in concert with him, and to answer his
views, and with authority to engage his aM
ance and support. It may in the ftricteftfenfc
be true, that Mr. Freneau's coming to Phiiacel
phia, was his own voluntary aß\ and yet
that he came from interested
! the work of a party; for a man arh not t&-
voluntarily because he yields to corfideration-of
interest. It may be even true, that the Ecitor
of the National Gazette was never either di
rected, controuled, or attempted tobeinS:*
enced in any manner, either by the Secretar-ct"
State, or any of his friends; aid vet it m2y in
the strongest- sense be true, that under tbe i:r •
ence of the emoluments receivedfrom that o&-
cer, be has a&ed in precise conformity to li«
( known principles and views.
j As to the aflertion, that not a single line
J tiie National Gazette was ever dtrcdh, cr nli-
I rcflly y written, dictated, or composed for it, -
1c u e Secretary of State, it is a /hocking inthrcf
Jof rashness and levity. Unless Mr. Freneau
be; himfelf the author of every line which hai
been contained in every one of his papers 1
thing not to be believed) it is impolliMe that be
can know that none has ever been 4muij, w
indircflly, written, dilated, or composed by tie 1
officer in question -And if he had been as fair
pulous about an oath as he to hare x-.■ • 1
he never could have sworn 10 poiitlve|>
has done, to a tiling which it was impound 0
him to know—temerity l.kc this, m _
date his testimony in a court juflice, 1
were even, as he is not in tfie prek.it Cuie, a
dilinterefted witness.
11 No, Mr. Freneau, this is not the
] I culj)ate vourfelf before a judicious puJ c,
J the conclusions which are to b« n ( j
Jin oft convincing facts. Nor can it be —
j from any thing, that you have eitne •
' j said, that the whole of what has been 3i 5
, is " a lie."
The material facts which have been a
and may be added in confirmauoi', 2^^ v .
and they prove decisively your imp >
tion with the Secretary of State, ana ue -
ence of that connection upon your prel^.
It is a fad: which you have ac ; V
1 p ra'arv from t '^
that you receive a regular w.a ~or
cretary of State, as clerk in 1 is ( e P^
S of *
ont[oTiis*h<iguazr concede,
vou came from ' ore ™»
von came Irou „a, rn fa \ > "
I <-aoa?ity of an Editor or dire. • • \> .
! per, to become in this city Editor of t*•
"iff. a fVr which you dare not deny, r*' >*
| ppointtnent as "clerk for foreijn la»^
!• rt»*s ctUmportry with, or rather antecedent to,
the commencement o£ your paper. The firft num
ber of your paper is dated the 31ft of October,
• 791, your appointment was announced iij the
ITaily Advertiser of Oaober 26, I 79 1 (a paper
printed in New-York) in the following terms:
" We hear from Philadelphia, that the Hon.
Thomas Jefferfon, Esq. Secretary of State for
the United States, has appointed Capt. X'hilip
Freneau Interpreter of the French Language
for the department of State."*
It is a fa ft, which the debates in the Virginia
Convention will teftify, that Mr. Jefferfon was
In the origin oppal'ed to the present Constitution
of the United States.
It is a fad known to every man who ap
proaches that officer (for he takes no pains to
conceal it, and will not thank you to deny it)
that he arraigns the principal measures of the
government, and it may be added,with indjereet
if not indecent warmth.
It is a fad which results from the whole com
plexion of your paper, that it is a paper intem
perately devoted to the abuse of the govern
ment, and all the conspicuous actors in it; ex
ceot tlie Secretary of State, and his coadjutors,
who are the constant theme of your panegyric.
Even the illtiftrious Patriot who presides at the
head of the government, has not escaped your
envenomed (hafts.
And from these fads, the inferences which have
been drawn are irrefiftable.
The circumstance of your having come from
another State to let up and conduct a new paper-,
the circumstance of tlie Editor of that new papa
being appointed a Clerk in the department of
State—the coincidence in point of time oi that
appointment with the commencement of your paper,
or to speak more corre&ly, its precedency —the
conformity between the complexion ot your
paper and the known politics of the head of the
department who employs you—these circum
stances, collectively, leave r.odoubt ot your true
situation—the conviction ariling from them is
too strong to be weakened'bv any of those bold,
r.* even solemn declarations, which are among
the hackneyed tricks employed by the purijls in
politics, of every country and age, to cheat the
people into a belief of their superior fan&ity,
integrity and virtue.
If you had been previously the conductor of
a»newfpaper in this city—if your appointment
bad been any considerable time subsequent to
the institution of your paper, there might have '
been some room for fubterfuge ; —but as mat
ters (land, you have no possible escape.
The fact of the preliminary negociation
which brought you to this city, is not material,
when o many other fadh prefuppofingit concur;
but even this,if the scruples of family connexion,
or the dread of party resentment, does not pre
vent the evidence being brought forward, will
be proved inconteftibly ; not indeed a negocia
tion in which Thomas Jefferfon, Secretary of
State, was the immediate apent, but one car
ried on by a very powerful, influential and confiden
tial friend and aifociate of that gentleman.
That officer has had too considerable a part
of his political education amidit the intrigues
of an European court, to hazard a direst per
fonal commitment in such a cafe—he knows
how to put a man in a situation calculat
ed to produce all the effects he desires, without
the grofi and aukward formality of telling him,
" Sir, I mean to hire you for the purpose."
It is impoflible for a correct mind not to pro
nounce, that, in the abftraft a connexion like
that which is acknowledged to subsist between
you arid Mr. Jeflferfon, between the editor of a
new/paper and the head of a department of the
government, is indelicate and unfit; and conse
quently of a nature to juftify suspicion.
A connection of that fort in a free country,
is a pernicious precedent, inconsistent with
those pretensions to extraordinary republican
purity, of* Which so suspicious a parade is upon
every occasion exhibited.
The apology you attempt for it is ill founded
anil inadmissible—there is no law, which annex
es a particular salary to the clerkship in questi
on—the appointment is under the general au
thority given to the head of the deparment to
•appoint clerks with salaries not exceeding ag
gregately five hundred dollars to each—there is
therefore noreftridtion to the fumyou mention,
to induce as matter of neceflity the employ
ment of a person engaged in other occupations
—and not ordinarily and regularly attached to
the department.—Five hundred dollars or even
more might be legally given, for a clerk compe
tent to the duty, and if it was not fuHlcient
wholly to employ him, his 'surplus time might
be dedicated to other business of the depart
ment—Nor could there have been any mighty
difficulty in finding a clerk so qualified.
But if i here had been such difficulty. Tome o
ther character should undoubtedly have been
found—the precedent of such a species of influ
ence erected over the press, ought to have been
avoided—this is so obvious, that the not hav
ing avoided it, is a proof of fmifter design.
The employment of Mr. Pintard by the Se
cretary of State, was a natural consequence of
particular situation—Mr. Pintard,if lam right-
Jy informed, had been employed in the fame ca
pacity under the old government —and it was
natural enough to continue him in the occupa
tion and employment—But Mr. Pintard was
tot the printer oj a gazette.
These ftri&ures, though involving Mr. Fre
neau, it shall be confelfed, have been drawn
forth principally with a view to a character ol
greater importance in the community—They
aim at explaining a public officer, who has too
little scrupled to embarrass and disparage the
government of which he is a member—and who
has been tTie prompter, open or iecret, of un
warrantable aspersions on men, who so long as
anions, not merely profeflions, fha'l be the true
test of patriotism and integrity, need never de
cline a comparison with him, of tl:eir titles to
the public esteem. An AMERICAN.
* It is believed that Mr. Freneau could throw ligh,
npon this qucfiicn } by naming the day when his filar)
commenced.
Philadelphia, Aug. il.
The Pittsburgh Gazette of last Saturday contain
the following intelligence, that according to a let
ter from Buifal'ie Creek, upwards of 4000 Indians
were affemblcd at the Miami villages—that ten
scouts of Indians were out intending to flrike on
the frontieis— and that it was expected they wouici
soon itrike the Six Nations.
By a peifon from Fort Wafiiington, arrived at
information was received that Col.
Hardin, Major Trueman and two others were kil
led by the Indians, a iliort diilance from Fort Jef
ferfon, on their way to the Indian towns, to in
vite them to a treaty.
It is proposed in the Pittsburgh Gazette, that
the next menage or invitation for a treaty should
be sent by those members of Congtefs who pro
posed, and so ftienuoufly fupporied pacific mea
sures to be adopted at this period.
On Sunday last arrived at New-York, the Hoop
Sarah and Lucretia, Capt. M'Call, from Barba
does, after a palfageof 16 days ; he inlorms us
that he met a Capt. Welfli at Barbadoes (who
brought a cargo of tea from China) who informed
him that on his paflage he spoke with a ship be
longing to the hnglifh East-India Company, in
the Bay of Bengal, the Captain of which informed
him (Capt. Welsh) that Tippoo Saib had ceded
one halt of his territories to Lord Cornwallis, and
three millions of money sterling ; one million to
the Company, one million to Lord Cornwallis,
and the officers under his command, and the other
million to the afiiding powers.—Capt. M'Call
lays that he also read the fame in she Barbadoes
papers before he failed ; and that Tippoo had left
two of his sons hostages tor the due performance
of his agreement.
We give the above intelligence verbatim as we
received it, without vouching for its authenticity,
as the next Britifti Packet in all probability will
lurnifh us with some lurlhcr particulars fan&ioned
by public authority.
Ext raft of a letter from an eminent Merchant, dated
L„1 aL T-
Falmouth, June 9, 1792.
" As it may he ulctui to you lo be acquainted
with the Itate of the markets tor wheat, I have
thought it neccffary to give you the purport of
such advices as I have lately received from Lisbon.
44 This market is completely glutted with grain;
no less than sixty cargoes now a&uaUy unloading
in this river, for which there is no sale from on
board, as these buyers are full, and will not buy
for the present : belides, there is in the public gra
naries above 100,000 moys wheat (each moy equal
to 24 bulhels) which cannot all meet sale these 12
months to come. The approaching harvelt in
this kingdom and Spain promise to be abundant."
44 The Ports in England are at present Hint
againii the importation of foreign grain; there is
a great profpett of a plentiful harvest, and little
fupplics will be wanted in this country."
Extrafl of a Utter from a gentleman at Quebec, to his
' -/* ' - -
jriend in this city, of recent date.
*' Upper Canada will be a fine settlement in a
erv short time; 500 troops are already arrived,
3ar't of Col. Simcoe's regiment* ; several tranfperts
j re also taken up for tranlpcriing the remainder,
and for bringing over artificers, emigrants and
others, which latter are expe&ed here in a few
days."
* This regiment, it is Paid, is to consist of four
battalions ot 400 men each. The idea of such a
force m that country, so near neighbours to the
Unued State>, mey well excite speculation and at
tention on the part ot the government and people
of this country.
COMMUNICATION.
Despotic measures depend for their success
on the ignorance and blind credulity of the peo
ple ; and this is equally true of the influence
which certain characters, properly called de
magogues obtain in almost every community.
The degree d£eftimation in which the un
principled fomenters of mifchief are held in so
ciety, is generally in exact proportion to the
light and information of the people,—Hence
you seldom, if ever hear any thing in favor of
educating the poor and middling dalles of ci
tizens from those whose consequence is sup
ported by an implicit faith, on the part of their
adherents, in the projejjions they make.
It is now almofl universally admitted that
government has its legitimate origin, only from
the people ; how important does this consider
ation render the business of education ; for as
on the one hand a free government depends on
the wisdom and virtue of the community, so on
the other, the manoeuvres of those who would
persuade the people that liberty may be support
ed without government, than which 110 absur
dity can be greater, depends altogether on the
ignorance of mankind for their fuccefsful ope
ration.
Since writing the foregoing, our correspon
dent has read the General Advertijir of Thursday
lall. The preceding sentiments coincide with
u feleft remarks by a correspondent" in that
paper—and though the Gazette of the United
States has reiterated similar remarks a thou
sand times since its lirft publication yet,
cloathed in the elegant drels furnifhed by the
correspondent of the u General Advertiser,"
they must be read with pleasure and advantage:
\S cleft remarks l/y a Correspondent,— not the worse
FOR BEING TRUE,
IT is a maxim, too obvious to be disputed,
that an ignorant people cannot long preserve'
freedom. How then, it will be alked, are Sa-j
vages free ? They are so by nature. The li
berty of a Savage however, and that of a civil
ized man are efientiaHy different. Civil liberty
implies both restraint and protection ; but a
Savage is neither prote&ed nor retrained.
Where there is no government at all, men are
literally free ; but from a want of law they
cannot enjoy their freedom. Where there is
a despotic government the people are politi
cally (laves ; but still they are not in a worse
condition than Savages who remain as free as
nature formed them.
There cannot, speaking, be any ra
tional freedom without fixed laws. There can
be n» such laws where there is no civilization.
83
And as an ignorant people cannot be called ci
vilized, they are witliout thole materials which
form the protection of law, and therefore can
not deem theinfeives free.
In tracing the causes of the decline of States,
one after another, we are pielented with a
(h iking demonstration of the truths jult men
tioned. It must happen that the iplendor and
pageantry of courts, the opulence and artifice
of a few individuals will create a glare of civil
ization, which dazzles the great bulk of a com
munity who are itill too unenlightened to be
called civilized. No nation delerves such an
appellation, where knowledge and property are
confined to a few persons ; any more than that
delerves to be called a learned nation, in which
a few individuals have made eminent attain
ments in science. The prevailing cast ot cha
racter among the people at large, is what
should constitute the national chara&er.
Where the inhabitants of any country are
destitute of the means of acquiring a current
information of public affairs, they cannot be
brought into a concert of views. They will
be imprelTed with discordant notions ot men
and measures, and it will be impoflible to pro
duce any union of sentiment. A bitter Ipirit
of party will inevitably attend such a situation,
and public spirit will expire in the rage ot
fadliojr.
The evils of fa&ion, however, will always be
checked in a community which poflfel's general
information. The attempts of turbulent and
intriguing men will soon be difcovercd and ea
sily defeated by a well informed people, and all
the avenues of public danger will be ftriftly
guarded. Such people will readily learn w hat
they ought to bear and what to refill. They
will seldom commit mistakes, because they are
raised above ignorance, which is the only foil
in which mistakes can grow. The public opin
ion will of course be just and venerable. It
will controul the formation of the laws, which
will be so congenial to the public wish, and the
public interest, that there can be no motive,
and consequently no chance for a bad execution,
i The only certainty that a law will be well ex
ecuted, results from its beings consonant to the
general opinion—but how is an ignorant peo
ple to form any general opinion 5 The interest
of mankind and their duty are the fame thing.
It is only because people are unenlightened that
their ideas of thole objects lhould ever be so far
leparated as not to be exprefled by the fame
word. Nature made them alike, and why
should man make them different ?
Mr. Paine being informed that the British
ministry intend to bring a prosecution against
him, in a letter to the 4< Society for conltitu
tional information." observes, a nation (as well
the poor as the rich) has a right to know what
any works are which are made the fubjeft of
I prosecution." The getting out a cheap edi
tion is, I conceive, fays he, rendered more ne
| ccllary—and he is accordingly proceeding with
the work.
The society took into consideration the con- i
tents of laid letter—and voted their thanks to
Mr. Paine, for his disinterested patriotiim—
the society pafled sundry resolutions exprefllve
of their determination to Hipport the author of
the rights of man—and to persevere in the pro
secution of the work for which they aflociated.
An address is publtfhed from the fame society
to the Club of the Jacobins in Paris.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 21/9
3 per Cents, 4 12J6
Deferred, * 13J
Full /hares Bank U. S. 48 per cent. prem.
(hares, 61
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Philagathos ftiall appear as loon as pofTiblc
—If "A. B." intended his note for publication,
it appears propei that he (hould be known to the
Editor.
INFORMATION.
THE Adminiilration of the French Colony of
St. Domingo, continuing to draw bills upon
me, though advifcd more than two months ago to
suspend drawing—l am under the neceflity, in or
der to avoid cxpofing the credit of France, of in
forming the Public, that from the date of this ad
vertisement, I will not accept or pay any of tbofc
bills beyond No. 138, of the 17th of July.
In cafe the government of France mould make
provision and give orders for the payment of the
bills of the said admimftration, I fhal 1 make it
known immediately.
ANTO.INE R. C. M. de LA FOREST,
ConfuVGeneral of France.
Philadelphia, Augujl g:h, 1792.
(£3T It is expe&ed that ihc Editors of the news
papers will give c irculation through the United
States, to information so particularly intcrefting to
trade.
A further Caution.
ALL perlons are hereby cautioned horn receiv
ing of Thomas Mackie & Co. or any other
pa lon, lour Notes of Hand, given by the late
James Gardner, of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
to Samuel JachJon, of Philadelphia, all bearing date
the 19. h July, 1785, amounting in the whole to
£ . 2,600 13 3 North-Carolina currency; the
greaieit part of which (aid Notes have been paid
to fa id I'homas Matkie & Co. in proof of which
the subscriber* have the deposition of Mr. Jasper
Mauduit Jackson, and other documents which w ill
fully and clearly iliuftrate the matter.
It is therefore expetted that this notice, with
the one adveriifcd in this paper in May and June,
1791, will be a fuflicient caution to the public.
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executors.
' MAR. R. WILLKINCS, )
Wilmington i (N. C.) Aug. 1, 1792. (lamgm)
WANTED—TO RENT,
$~f A convenient Houfc, in or near the centre of
the City.—Enquire of the t<iit&r %
PROPOSALS,
By ISAAC NEALE,
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION^
(Tut mr.th edition of)
The Travels of Cyrus:
TO WHICH IS ANNEXED,
A DISCOURSE upon the THEOLOGY an I
MYTHOLOGY of the PAGANS.
BY THE CHEVALIER RAMSAY,
THE Travels of Cyrus having gone through (9
many editions in Europe, every thing wtneb
might be laid to recommend so valuable a work,
is rendered useless ; and as it is now alinoit, if not
entirely out of print, the publilher truits there
will be little difficulty in procuring a refpc&able
lift ot lubfcribers to an American Edition.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be published in one volume,
i2mo. on good deiny paper, and a neat type; ana
will contain about 350 pages.
The price to fublcnbers wiil be On e Dol lar,
to be paid on the delivery of the book, whicu
will be neatly bound and lettered.
The work, (ball be put to prcis in O&ober next,
provided there shall be 250 lubfcribers.
Any peilon fuolcribing tor, or procuring sub
scribers for twelve books, and will be refponfiblc
for the payment, (hall be entitled to two gratis.
The names of fubfcribeis Ihall be piehxed to
the work.
Subscriptions received by mod of the
Booksellers in Philadelphia and New-York.
N. B. Gentlemen who may please to encourage
the work by procunng fublcnptions, are requeited
to forward a Jilt ot the names subscribed, i>y the
20th day of O&obcr next.
Burlington, July 21,1 792,
War Department,
August 6, 1792.
INFORMATION is heieby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
tne funis to which they are intitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the 4th day ot Match
1792, and which will become due on the sth day
ot .September 1792, will be paid on the laid day
by the Commiihoners of the Loans within the
Slates refpe£ltvely, under the usual regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mult be accom
panied by the following vouciicrs.
:ft. The certificate given by the (late, fpecifying
that the person poflie fling the fame is in fait an in
valid, and afceitaining the sum to which as iuch he
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the J uflices of the
county of in the fiute of and made oatn that*
he is the fame A. li. to whom the original certificate
in his pojjeffion 1 uas given y oj which tne following is y
a copy (the certifcttc given by the slate to be recited)
That he served (regiment, corps or veJJelj at
the time he was disabled, and that he now rejides in
the and county of and has lefded
there for the lafl years, previous to which he re
sided in
In cafe an invalid foculd apply for payment by
an attorney, the said attorney, besides the certifi
cate and oath belore recited, mull produce a spe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the following
form :
I, A. B. of county of flute of do
hereby conflitute and appoint C. D. of my lawful
attorney, to receive in my behalf of my penjton
for Jix months, as an invalid of the United states,
from the fourth day of March, one thousand fee en
hundred and ninety-two, and ending the jijth day of
September, one thoujandfeven hundred tnd ninety-turn.
Signed and lcaled
in the pielence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executor* and adminiftiators
mull be accompanied with legal evidence of their
refpc&iv.r offices, and also ot ihe time the invalids
died, whose ptnlion they may claim.
By command of the
Prcfident of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
£3" The Printers iri the refpeftive States are
requested to publish the above 111 their newspa
pers, for the space of two months.
Sixty Dollars Reward.
BROKE goal in Baltimore, the 10th of April
laft,and made his efcape,a Negro Man
BILL FLANAGAN, the property of the sub
scriber. He is a ftoul, straight likely fellow, about
25 years of age; 5 feet 8, 9or 10 inches high. He
itrcfts to be a zealous Method tit, is extremely art
ful, talkative and plausible; can read, and it n
supposed can write. He had on a failoi's rrd cloth
jacket, a ftiiped ditto, an old coarse linen lhin,
and a pair of canvaft troufersj he was barefooted.
It is not doubted he will alter his drels, and change
his name. He was lately the property of Capt.
Joseph Goutrou,of Baltimore, and was employed
as a sailor on board his packet ) and it is probable
may try to get oa board some vessel in capacity of
seaman.
It is supposed he ia now in New-York or Phila
delphia Whoever takes up and fccure» said
Negro, so that the fubferiber gets him again, {hall
receive Sixty Dollars reward, and rcafonable
charges. CHRISTOPHER HUGHES.
Baltimore, Augujl 1, 1792
TO EE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
AN ALPHABETICAL LIST of the Duties
payable on all Goods, Wares and Merchant
due imported into the United States ; exhibiting.
:he Rales payable on tWe imported in Ships or
VelTcls of the United States, and in Foreign Ships
ior Veflels; including the additional Duties to
which the refpeftive Articles are liable.
ALSO,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold
graduatid according to Law—Blank Manifeds—
And Blanks for the various Powers o( Attorney
'necctfary in tranfatt ng Buiiuefs at tire Treafuiy or
at the iiank oi the United States.
(ep3 w )
| U'itneJfeT.
(taw 4 t)Sunday Schools.
THE society for the in dilution and fopport o!
First-Day or Sunday Schools, in the city of
Philadelphia, and me diftn&s of Southwark and
the Northern Liberties, having rftablifhed two
schools for boys, under the care of Mr.John Poor,
and Mr. ]ohn Barry, and one school for girls, un
der the care ot Mr. John Ely ; the Board of Vifi.
ors do heicby earnellly folic it all their fellow
citizens, who cannot otherwise avail t.'iemlelvej
of educating those under their care, to frnd them
to those schools, to receive that inftru£lion which
which is so neceflary to qualify them for ufetul
nefs in civil society.
Firmly persuaded of this great truth, that to
difTeminate knowledge, is preparing mankind for
virtue, freedom, and happiness ; the Board do
therefce also earnestly rrqueft, that all their fel
low citiseni who have experienced the advantages
of education, will use their influence with those
■whose rircumßances prevent the inftru&ion of
their children, to fend them to those schools, that
they may thereby derive the advantages intended
by the society.
Philadelphia, $th July, 1792.
Certificates Loft.
MISSING, Five Netv-Jerfey Certificates, ligned
by SiUi CondiS, viz.
No. 740 for 75 o o
1978 11 12 9
715 100
3482 1 4 6
829 O 12 9
The fubfcribcr supposes the above Certificates
are stolen. Whoever will discover the Thief, or
Certificate?, and lsave information at the Treasury
or Loan-Office in New-Jerfcy, or in the County
Colle&oi's o;lice at Moriis-Town, shall be hand
fomely rewarded by
Mortis-Town,
New- July 12, 1792
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON, an<J o[hcr
Bookfcllers in Philadelphia,
ACollrftion of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS ; fele&ed from different
Authors, and published by Order of the Con
vention holding the Do&rine of the Salvation of
allJMen, met in Philadelphia, May 25, 1791.
Price of a Tingle book, bound, 3-Bths of a Dollar,
\v;th good allowance to thole who take quantities.
Augufl 4. (eptf.)
TO BE SOLD,
(And pofleflion given immediately)
A Valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
containing 213 acres, whereof 47 are wood
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made ; the
cleared land is under good fence, and is well
adapted to graft, and there being so much meadow,
a large flock may be raised : it is a'fo natural to
wheat, and a proper attention to a well-kept stock,
•will much improve its quality, and be the moil
profitable : it has a young orchard of 200 apple
trees, a variety of peach and cherry trees, and a
large garden. The»e are on the premises a hand
some two story stone house and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza; also, a good barn, with stabling,
cow-house, granary, waggon-house, work-shop,
and fmoak-houfe. The fuuation is high, pleasant,
and healthy, and affords some very agreeable pro
fpedb, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the main road to New-York, about a mile and a
half from Piinceton, New-Jersey, and 43 from
this city. The title was examined and approved
bveminent council before thefubferiber purchased.
For further particulars apply to the fubferiber, at
No. 141. South Second-street, or at No. 81, South
Water-flreet, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
N. B. Stock for the farm may be had of the prc
fent tenant.
Also, 10 be Sold, and entered immediately,
A iwo-liorv Brick HOUSE and BAKE-HOUSE,
in Arch-flreet, No. 93, 16 feet two inches in front,
and 102 feet in depth. Apply as above.
July >7,
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY
Thomas james, wax chandler,
from London, refpeflfnlly informs the public
that he has eftabliflied a Manufafiorv of the above
branch, at the upper end of Mulberry-Street.New-
Yoik, where Merchants, Captains of Veflels,
Drugs-ills, and Families, miv be supplied with
excellent and pure White Wax Candles, White
Wax in Cakes, Tapers, Wau'd Lamp Wicks,
Flambeaux, &c. warranted equal to any made in
London, and twenty percent, cheaper.
Orders in this and the adjacent Slates, received
bv Mr. John Goodiye, Bridge-Street, Mr.
William Fkobisrer, Fletcher-Street, ar.d at
the Msnulaitorv, where famplcs may be seen.
N. B. Bees-Wax taken in payment, or bleached
on moderateterms.
New-York, Jul/ 19, 1792,
SECURI TIES.
SOLDIERS, Mariners, and militia men's pa\
lands, and claims on the public,
SHARES, in the Banks, in the Canals,and Turn
pike Road,
CERTIFICATES, granted by the public, and
the old and late paper monies,
NOTES of hand, bills, bonds, and mortgages
with or without deposits,
BOUGHT, fold, or negotiated, at No. 2, in
Fourth.ttreet below Market-street, by
FRANCIS WHITE,
Who tianfafls bufweft in the public offices for
country people and others,by virtue of a power,
of attorney, or by personal application.
PHILADELPHIA
""pHE Partner (hip ol HAZARD 3c ADDOMS
X "diffol.ed ; _AU persons having demand*
on that FIRM, aiedcftrrd to call for fettlem-m
upon EBEN'EZER HAZARD, at No. ,-8 North
Secnnd-Street—and those indebted to it aic re
quelled to make immerfijip payment to him.
E3I N'KZER HAZARD,
ADDOMS.
rhiladapkiaSJmlj 10, 179 a. r t f\
'Bank of theUnitedStates.
\V
* RESOLVED,
I ' ll "*HAf an Office of Difcnur.t and Drpofir, he
c X fUblifhcd in the Cuy o{ Richmond, Scale of
,c / Vir^inia.
I RISOLVKD.
That the 2d Tucfday in September next be ap
pointed for the Election of Thirteen Directors and !
a Caihicr, for thf Office of Discount and Deposit,;
m the City of Richmond.
George-T own.
A Number of LOTS in every situation which
'Jl may be drfired in City of Washington, 1
will be offered tor (ale by the Commifiioners, on
Monday the Bth day of October next. One tourth
part of the moneyto be paid down, ihe rcfidue in
three equal annual payments, wiih yearly interest
on the whole principal unpaid.
179*.
To be pub/i/hed by Subscription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
From September 1774, to March 1789 ; —
An auth ntic and original colle&ion of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c.
written during the late war ;
And extracts fromthe
SECRET JOURNALS.
( For particulars, Jte Propojals at large.)
Subscriptions are received by the principal
Sookfellers, and bv the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
JOSEPH LEWIS.
[ la W7 w)
New-Brimfwick Lottery.
HIGHEST PRIZE, 2,000 DOLLARS.
THE Public are hereby informed, that the
drawing of the 2bove Lottery is postponed
till the third day of September next—at which
time, the Managers are pofuively determined the
drawing shall commence, in Mr. Norman's Long
Room, in the City of New-Brunfwick.
Tickets arc to be had at Samuel
Ferry, where fortunate adventurers may receive
their prize-money ten days after drawing. A lift
of fortunate numbers will be publifbed in the
Gazette of the United St ate s.
Circumstance*. unforefeen, and unfavorable
to Lotteries, have occafxoned the neceflitv of this
further postponement. The Re&or and Wardens
3lk. the assistance of their episcopal and other
friends, in supplying themlelves with Tickets pre
vious to the above day—confident that no Lottery
more favorable to adventureis has been offered to
the public—the dedu&ion being only 12 g per
cent, and not two blanks to a prize.
%* Letters direfled to Peter Keekon,
Poft-Maftcr, New-Brunfwick (poll paid) will be
immediately altended to.
New-Brunfwick, July 25, 1792. (eptS)
Stock Brokers Office,
N°*4s* Great Dock-llreet, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confinc himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to offer
his ferviccs to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with their business, may depend upon
having it tranfafted with the utmost fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other
part of the United States will be ftriftly attend
ed to.
May 2
(eptf)
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA
June 28. 1792.
R SUAXT to the last Will and Tcftamentof
1 the Idle Rev. Alexander Willuhson,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurl
day, the mh of Ofiober next,at Gmicitows,
Oil a credit of three years, the purchasers givin '
bond with approved security, to bear intereftfrom
the date—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation of the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatefl part of which
is rich, heavy timbered laud, extremely w*ell wa
tiTcd, and capable of affording a very considerable
quantity c.t fine meadow Siiuated about 6 miles
from the Federal City,and the fame difbnee from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy pait of the country.
I he improvementsare, a very elegant two {lory
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms ? nd a
oafijge, or entry, on a floor) and the necessary out
houses. HEN'RYTOU'NSEND.)
/ 2 EN 'J- STODDERT, > Executors.
rP'O THOMAS JOHN'S. S
[cp7w]
TERRITORY OF COLUMBIA.
'T'HE Subscriber offers for Sale, a
Rock Cicck, deemed by ihofe who have ex-
IT.'n ~"VC <sUal to in ,he Un,,cd Slates. The
M:l!-Houfe may be placed within one ouarter of
a mileot the river Folnwmjc, hi!f a m .le from
the jnarket houfc in Gcorg?;ow n, and on? in:ic
torn the Prefidonl's (quale, in the citv of Wath
msto,,_ 011 tide water, navigable for veffeis of fe
vcral hundred bufnels burthen—The itream is
lu.hcent.the year round,to turn f„ ur pair of flones.
and the fall m ay be made from o; to so feet. It i
'S Ui.neccffj.y to dwell on the advantages of such I
a ntuatmn. '
(iaw6w
, pi" c Infer may be accommodated- with a
If , u n? rc ?j a u res o! ! and ati j oi »' n 3 the Mill-Sea:,
i. lhat (bouid be an object.
(ep3m 14 Jul)
10VRSAL of He TIURI) ifsVlW
6D,
By Order of (he Prcfidrntand Directors,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
JOHN M'GANTT, Clerk
lo the Commiflioners.
OK, PROCKIDINCS OF tub
Old Co?icfref,)j
THE MANAGERS.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(' f.)
B. STODDERT.
84
Ebenezer Hazard,
STOCK-BHOKEH,
HAS Removed his OFFICE to No. 128 north
Second-Street, where he continues to purchafc
and fell on.Commiilion, Certificates of debt of the
United, and Individual States, Bank. Stock, Canal,
and Turnpike Shares, &c. &c.
Subscribers to the Universal Tontine who|
have not yet received their Certificates are defin
to call for them.
July 18.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVEjuft now opened their Lead-Ware
house, two door& south ofWalnut-ftree;
Wharf, adjoiningtheir New Fa£lory—where ihr\
have now made, and ready for sale, a general
assortment of SHOT of all fizes,with SHEET and
BAR LEAD, the production of the Mir.es in
Virginia. As they have employed » number of
experienced English workmen, they warrant ir
to be equal in quality to any manufa&ured in
Europe, and at a reduced price from the cost of
iro ported.
[eptf]
They also continueto manufa&ure all the above I
articles at Richmond, in Virginia. A!i orders!
a'ldreffed to either of the above Fa&ories, will!
be thankfully received,and executed on the (hort-!
ci\ notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouiing
j Men, at the said Mines, where conilant employ,
good wages, and other encouragements will be
given, means of conveyance being provided, and ,
nouses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Meffr*. Moses
Austi n&c Co. at their Factory in Richmond, or
as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. tf
BOOKS,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. /\ MERICANMUSEUM,fiom itscommence-
Jl ment in January 1787, to December 1791,
in ten vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered,
sixteen dollars.
This work, which is now conduced on an Im
crovcd plan, containing the best pieces publilhed
for and against the proceedings of government,
will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and mifceiUneous essays,
as any ever publifbed in America. Perhaps in no
one work are so many valuable docunr nts refpe£t
ing the history of this country, colle&ed together.
His Excellency the Prefidentof the United States,
has declared of it, that u a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving ot public encouragement.'*
The fnbfcription is two dollars and a half per
arm. Gentlemen in the country who wish to
be supplied with this work, are requested to give
jcommiflion to friends in the city to fubferibe for
and receive it* -Any of the back numbers
1 may be had in order to complete feis.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss
More'sEirays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning-;
ion's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Ladv.Mrs. Cha
pone on command ol Temper, Morc's Fibles for
the Ladies, Price 6^6.
3. Smith's History of New-York, fromits frrft
fetileinent to the year 1732. To which is annex
ed, a description of the country, with a short
account of the inhabitants, their religious and
political state, and the corifiitut:«n of the courts
of justice. Pi ice a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Sciencc, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. profeffor ot moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Ol this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : " We
seen nothing on these fubje&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or moregeneiallv ufeful."
N T . B. It is introduced into the University in Phi
ladelphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, British and American,
containing fele£l productions of the mod eminent
British and American poets—Price iour-liJths ol
a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons,containing the whole of the
three volumes of the Bruflh edition, in two
Price two dollars.
7. Necker's Treatise on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.— Price four-fifths of a dollar.
8. Examination of the Oblervations ot Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bihs of a dollar.
9. The Conlbtutions of the several United States,
with the Federal Conilitution, ic. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fiugal, an epic poem, a new edition in
i2mo.— Price three-eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jefl Book, in two parts, with
two very neat engravings Price bound, threi-
Sfths of a dollar.
12, Garden of the Soul, by Birtiop Chalenor—
Price, bound in calf and lettered, three quarters
of a dollar—plain, half a dollar.
13, The Dow ay Tranfiation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—. Pi ice, elegantly bound and lettei
r°> s°A—plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecum Price a
quarter dollar.
l s* Think well nu't, or refl;ftions for every
day of the month.-Price a quarter dollar.
16. Christian Economy, tranllated from a
Greek manuscript, found in the ifiand of Patmoa
•>nere S>. John wrote the Aposalypfc—Pnccs,
filth ot a dollar.
17. Hiilory of Chatles Grandifon, abridged—
Price a sixth of a dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
of a dollar.
ig. Select Poems, chiefly American—Price a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Car »y has for sale. a large affoitment ol
Books, European as well as AnierTan editions,
which he will difpole of on the moll leafonable
Co.:
kommands. may depend upon being supplied in
I e most (itiifaciorv manner. A hix-ni allowance
to such as purchase quantities for publ.c libuixs,
or to fell again.
Itcrm
( c p>f)
%* As the very great expence attrn<rfn s iKe
undertaking, makes punctuality of payment in
difpenfablv nec< (Tary, the publifcer flatten hn
felf that the fubfenbers will be perfectly fatisfi d
with his adhering ftriftly to his original plan of
delivering the book? only on receiving payment,
agrt eable to the conditions of publication.
Subfcripiions for the Encyclopedia,
Will continue to be received on the fame tern jw
usual, till the firft of September, 1792, when the
price will be encreafed. Tin Dollaij to be
paid on fubfeription, by thofc who have not sub
scribed before that time.
Those who have fubferibed, but not taken their
books befoie that time, wvll be cor.fidcred as not
having fubferibed.
As the lubfeription will probably beelofwbv
Chnftmas, such as chufe to be poflefforjof tbu
very valuable and important work, will do wril
to come forward in time, that they may not be
difaooointed. July pi. ewf
GENERAL POST-OF£li
PHI Ladelphia, Jn/f 7,1791,
FOR the information of Merchants and ihtiiif.
ters or Commanders cf vefTeli, are
the following extract* from the Law for• V:-
ing Poft-Offices and Post-Roads
States.
11l fe&ion 10, it is enafled that thrr 'lill be
charged 41 for every letter or packct broajta ihtt>
the United States, or carried from one pontic,
in to another by sea, in any private (hipontfir!,
four cents, ii delivered at t-he place wheretheiißc
shall arrive ; and if dire&edto be dcliveredataoy
other place, with the addition of the like pof!i;p,
as other letters are made fubjeft to the payfwfit
of by this ack.'*
In fe&ion 12, 44 That no ft»iporvfffe!,*riivin{j;
at any port within the United States, where 1 poll
office is established, fnall be pernutjrd ro rrpoiu
make entry or break bulk., till the roaftci or com
mander shall have delivered to the poftmafler, all
letters diie&ed to any pcrfon or peiioos uii/iia
the United States, which, under his care or wiiliin
his power, (hall be brought in such ftiiporveffd,
o Jier than such as are dirffled to the •»»« or
consignee : but when a vessel (haH be wund to -
nothcr port, than that, at which she ri2 , :"'"V nf
letters belonging to, or to be delivered at "t 1
port of delivery, fhali no: be delivered ictkpok
mailer at the port of entry. And it lha!i the
duty of the colleGor or other officer of the po"»
empowered to receive entries ol fhipi or teflelt,
to lequire from every master nr commander 01
tuch (hipor vessel, an oath or arTi'malion, purport
ing that he has delivered all such letter*, except £»
aforefaid.! 1
In fe&ion 13, 44 That the poftmaftcr towho*
fiich letteis may be delivered, shall pay to
master, commander, or other peifon delivering
the fame, except the commanders of foreign pac •
ets, two cents for every such letter or packct, an
shall obtain from the person delivering the laroe,
a certficate fpecifying the number of « ctie,s
packcts, with the name of the (hip orvett ,
and the place from whence Ihe lall fa'led ; * c
certificate. togethei with a receipt for the rnooc\»
(hall be with his quarterly accounts, tranfinitte
to the PoftmaUer-Geoera!, who shall credit J 11
amount theicof to the poftxnafttr forwarding c
fame." ,
For general informifiinr, the 14th fefticn ,s P u "
lifhrd, 4 * And he it further enisled, That 1 WV
person, other than the Poftmafter-Gcncral, or »•
t deputies, or peifons by thrm employed, a ta*
up, receivc, order, dispatch, convey, carry or
liver any lettei or letter*, packet or packet*. 0
than newfpapcrs. for hire or reward, or a
concerned in (cttin!> up any foot or 101 c P
wanton or other carriage, by or in which any
ter or packet (hall be carried for hirr, '.r.
blifhed post-road, or any packet, or .
or boat, or any conveyance whatever, w
revenue of the general poft-office may e I *
ev.-rv per(on,f» offending, (hall 10. tc.t f°r
such offence, .he fun. »t «».
Provided, That ii (hill ®nd mav , f .
r\r person to fend letters or packets ) P
fenger. ~
WANTED, to g° 10 fiosio".
\ JOURNEYMAN
A "frnall work, such a, Tea-Kett£,
P(»;..&c.—Good wages and "'""i
w ,!l bf F iven to a pe.fon wtth gact <«**£&
lions—a Tingle mm would be prefeircd' ■r'
of the Editor. r»D1»l
July««. lP ' U