PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHII.ADFI PHI
[No. 77, of Vol. lII.]
LONDON, November I.
The following paper has been circulated at Paris,and
Ilands pre rifely on the fame authority as the ether
publications »/ the fame nature.
The Prorefl of tile Princes of the Koufe of Bour-
bon, agaiuft the acceptance of the CoiiUitucion.
" I T is in vain that an unfortunate monarch,
A always captive, though free in appearance,
has consented to the ruin of his faithful fubjeifts
—to the ruin of the Monarchy—by accepting a
prerended Constitution of the Empire ; it is in
vain that he h>s signed his own degradation ;
this fanciion which the King has given in fait
to a monstrous code, is really no (auction in right.
And who can be persuaded of the legality of
fiich an aflent, while every thing proclaims the
contrary ?
" Can a Prince, left alone amidst usurpers,
farrounded with the wrecks of his own throne,
encempafled by fears and menaces, beset by in
trigue, have freedom of choice ? And without
freedom of choice, is not every consent null ?
" Freedom consists in beingable to chufe with
out danger, and without fear ; it cannot exilt
without this condition, and consent is null,when
refulal .would hazard the ftifety and property of
him who gives it. If the King had refilled to
accept the conflitution, he would have been de
prived of the crown ; so had the ufnrping Ai
fembly decreed. And in rejecting with difdaili
a degraded crown,when presented by a seditious
Aflembly, was the King master of the choice of
his asylum ? and would he not have exposed his
person, and all that was Hill more dear to him,
ta ouirage, and his faithful fubjecfls to proscrip
tion, to murder, and to conflagration j
" Without doubt, had Louis XVI. entertain
ed the hope of dying at least with glory, if his
blood could have saved France, the inheritor of
the virtues of Henry IV. would have displayed
his courage. Forced to obtain his inheritance
by conquest, he would, like him, have been the
victor and the father of his fubjeifts ; and, like
him, would have compelled them to become hap
py. But what can courage do without support !
Henry had an army ; while Louis, alone,betray
ed, abandoned, captive in the hands of his ene
mies, without troops, without auxiliaries, forced
even to regret the happy obfeuriry of the tnean
eft of his fubjeifts, in the midlt of an importunate
crowd, who served rather to besiege than defend
him, found not even one friend to share his sor
rows, and wipe away his tears..
" The King Then could form no other deter
mination than that which he adopted, without
hazarding the loss of his crown, and perhaps of
his life. His degradation, and even his death,
would have been an useless facrifice to honor ;
it would have caused France long and fruitlefs
remorse, but could not have saved it.
" The King then was not free ; bis famlion
is therefore null : and in this cafe to disobey il
lusory orders, is t-o give the llrongeft and mod
cpnrageous proof of obedience and fidelity ; it
is to serve the real Monarch, it is to lerve God
and our country
" Scarcely could this pretended afTent be ere
lited, if the King had proclaimed it ainidlV his
amilv, furroiinded with his ancient and faithful
ervants, with all his military houfhold, in fine,
vith all the splendor of his former power. Then
:he royal aflenr, though the occasion of so much
rwirt, would nevertheless have been recognized
as just, at lealt reputed free ; then we might
h;ive condemned the error of the Prince, but
should not have wept over his ch;iins ; then the
fact would have been inconteftible, we could on
ly have disputed the right.
" In even if the King had enjoyed full
pofleffion of his liberty, would he have had the
right to famftion laws contrary to the fundamen
tal laws of the kingdom ? Could he, from a niif
raken generoiity, and in the expectation of a de
ceitful calm, have facrificed, alon-g v.ith himfelf,
his family, his fucceflors, the true happiness of
the people, generations present and to come ?
Could he give a valid approbation ro the pre
tended Conftitmion, which had occasioned so
many misfortunes? Poflefior for life of the throne
which he received from his ancestors, could the
King, in .alienating his primordial rights, destroy
the constitutive bafig on which it is founded?
Born Defender of the Peligion of the State,
■could he consent to what tends to its ruin, and
abandon its ministers to wretchedness and dif
Saturday, January 21, 175) 2.
grace ? Bound to adininifter juflice to his fub
could he renounce the function, efleutially
royal, of caufiug it to be administered by tribu
nals legally conltituted, and of superintending
himfelf the administration ? Protector of the
rights of all the orders, and of the pofl'eflions of
individuals ; could he sanction the invasion of
the one, and the violation of the other ? Father
of the People, could he abandon them to disorder
and anarchy ! In fine, could he highly approve
what reason and jultice condemn, and eternize
the misfortunes of France ?
" And what is this Conrticntion, which they
pretend to give us, except a nionfter deftrurtive
of laws human and divine ; a work of offence
and iniquity ; null, from the vice of the convo
cation of the members of the/Ufembly, (tiling
theinfelves Constitutive ; null from ihe combi
nation of the Deliberating Body, a combination
f'ubverfive of the firlt basis of the State, the dif
tintftion of orders ; null from the principles
which it eltabli(hes,lince they overturn the throne
and the altar, and tend to replunge men into
barbarism by appearing to bring them back to
nature; null from its consequences, dreadful
confeqwences, of which experience already pre
sents a too fsmhtol catalogue in the disorder of
the finances, in the scarcity of money, in the
stagnation of commerce, in the want of disci
pline among the troops, in the inactivity of the
tribunals, the silence of the laws, thetyrannyof
the factious, and the oppreflion of the rich ; in
one word, the triumph of licentiousness over true
liberty ?
" It would be nfelefs to accumulate Veafoning ;
truth is roo striking ; and faifis already speak so
loudly, that the cortfeqtience cannot be denied,
without a species of felf-deception. The King
then had no right to fan<fiion such a Constitu
tion, ot which his faneflion, already null by the
defeat of freedom, is null likewise by the defect
of right.
" Ah ! when victorious overthe Gauls the firft
Franks adeuibled in the Champ-de-Mars, raised
Pharnmond on the ftie!d ; when their warlike
voices exclaimed—" Reign over us, and let your
descendants reign over our children," they
were far from forefeeing, that at the end of
fourteen ages a generation would come, whose
madnef's would deltroy the work of wisdom and
of valour! When Philip the Fair, reviving the
rights of the people, that had been disregarded
under indolent Monarchs, fuminoned to the
States General the Deputies of the Third Eflate,
and placed them along with the Peers of his
realm, he did not fufpetft that one day this un
grateful order would overturn the two ethers,
would deck ambitious Tribunes with the spoils
of Supreme Power, and leave only the phantom
of a King on the throne of Charlemagne.
" No, it fliall not be so : no, the French Mo
narchy shall not perish. And since motives
it is impossible for us to perceive, but which can
originate only from the violence and constraint
which, by being disguised, are only more cruel,
force Louis XVI. to subscribe an acceptance
which his heart rejedts, which his own interelt
and that of his people condemn, and which his
duty as King expressly prohibits ;
"We protest in the face of the whole world,
and in the most solemn manner, against this illu
sive atfi, and all that may follow from it. We
have (hewn that it is null of itfelf, null by defed't
of liberty, null from the radical vice of all the
operations of the usurping Assembly, which not
being an Assembly of the States General, is no
thing. We are supported by the rights of the
whole nation, in rejecting decrees diametrically
opposite to their wiJhes, expressed by the unani
mous tenor of inflrucftions to their Representa
tives ; and we disavow, on behalf of the nation,
those treacherous mandatories, who,in violating
their orders, and departing from the milfoil en
trulled to them, ceased to be its Representatives.
We will maintain what is evident, that having
acfted contrary to their title, they have atfed
without power, and what they could hot legally
do 'cannot be. validly accepted.
" We protest for rhe King, and in his name,
againll only what can bear its falfe iinpreflion.
His voice beiug ftifled by oppression, we will be
its neceilary organs ; and we express his real
fentimenis as they exilt in the oath of hi» ac
ceillon to the throne, as they have appeared in
the adiions of his whole life, as rtrey have been
difpl3jed in the Declaration which he made at
305
Hks .
[Whole No. 28/5.]
the fir ft moment that he believed himfelf free.
He neither can nor ought to have any other, and
hit will exillsonly in thofeac'ts where it breathes
free!v.
We protest for the People, who, in their
delirium, cannot perceive haw deitruiftive this
phantom of a new Conftitution,which is made to
dazzle their eyes, and before which they are
vainly made to fvvear, mult become to them.
When thef'e people neither knowing their law
ful Chief, nor their dearelt interelts, fuller them
ielves 10 be misguided to their definition ; when
blinded by deceitful proiniies, they fee nocthofe
who excite them to deltroy the pledges of their
own security, the fnpporters of their repose, the
principles of their fubfillence, and all the ties of
their civil aflociatiou ; it becomes neceflary to
claim for them the i e-eftabliflunent of all'thefe ;
it becomes neceflary to lave them from their
own frenzy.
We protest for rhe religion of our fathers,
which is attacked in its dogmas and worftiip, as
well as its Ministers ; and in order to fnpply the
Monarch's want of power at present to dii'charge
in his own person his ddties as-eldest Ton of the
Church, we a Hume in his name thedefence of its
rights ; vveoppoi'e those invasions of its proper
ty which tend to degrade it ; we rife with in
dignation againlt arts which menace the king
dom with the horrors of fchifin ; and we loudly
profefs our unalterable attachment to the Eccle
siastical Rules admitted in the States, the obser
vance of which he has fwornto maintain.
" We piotefV for the fundamental maxims of
the Monarchy, from which the King is not per
mitted to depart ; which the nation itfelf has de
clared to be inviolable ; and which would be to
tally reversed by the decrees which abolish Roy
alty itfelf; by suppressing ail the intermediate
ranks ; by those which deprive Monarchy of the
functions molt eilential to Monarchical govern
ment.
" In fine, we prorefl: in the pretence of the
Supreme Being, and in the name of Eternal Jus
tice, for all Orders of the State, and for all
Frenchmen.
" This Protest, signed along with us by all the
Princes of the Blood who are connected with us,
is common to all the Houfeofßourbon, on whom
their eventual rights to the crown impose the
duty of defending the anguft deposit. >
(Signed) Louis^Stanijlaus-Xavier,
Charies-Philippe,
L. Joseph de Bourbon,
Louis-Henri Jos. de Bourbon,
L. A. H. de Bourbon.'"
Coblintz, Oflober 8, I 791.
A meflenger arrived in town on Wednesday
with dispatches from Conflantinople, Warsaw,
Vienna and Berlin, containing the treaty of peace
with the Turks, signed by all the powers con
cerned.
Letters from Stockholm mention, that in con
sequence of the report becoming public th?re,
that the King intended to aflitl the French refu
gee princes, in re-establishing them and their ar
bitrary power in France, several of the Swedi(k
regiments have declared they will not act, and
it is thought such will become the general decla
ration of the army.
The Kingof Sweden's acquiescence to his Most
Chriltian Majesty's acceptance of the Crown,wiih
the limitations prescribed by the National A flem
bly, takes off one of the most atftive enemies to
the new Constitution.
The Court of Saxony likewise, reckoned a
mongst tJie most inveterate foes to the Revolu
tionists, according to the lad accounts from the
Continent, has acknowledged the nev# Constitu
tion, and accepted of the sent with
it. i
With regard to Great-Britain, little remarka
ble has occurred during the present vacation of
parliament, either to arouse the attention of the
people, or excite the curiosity of'the politician.
The late armament, like the baseless fabric of a
vision, has now almost vaniihed ; the greater part
of the (hips are paid cff; and the seamen being
discharged, such of them as prefer vice and idle
ness to industry and labour, will seek a liveli
hood by rapine and plunder. The expences of
this armament, which niuil be considerable, will
no doubt form a topic of discussion in course
of next session ; the abolition of the slave-trade
will, in all probability, be also revived; butamong other objeifts which may eng a g e atten
tion of the legislative body, we lincerely hope
that a worthy anil refpe<stable member will not
forget hip plan for checking the piogrefs of fe
male Prolfitution—an evil which, in this coun
try, and particularly in the metropolis, has in
creased, is increaling, and ought to be diminish
ed . Though this evil cannot be abolished, it
may, however, be leflened. The eftablilhment
of a proper poiice, vigilant magistrates, atfli»e
officers, and suitable punishment infli<sled upon
those who offend, will undoubtedly contribute to
promote so delirable an objeiS, and be of the ut
nioft benefit to society.
The arms of Great-Britain continue prosperous
in India. But it would be ralh, after the public
dispatch of Lord Cornwallis, to predict hidden
or unobftrtidled success. We therefore wait ihe
event with the solicitude and anxiety of good ci-
tizens
The marriage of the Duke of York with the
Princess Frederica of Prulfia, has taken place
sooner than we expeCied. This alliance is high
ly creditable to the Duke, and honorable to the
nation.' The union of the young prince of O
range with another branch of the fame family,
renders the connection still moredefirable. The
Duchess of York, if fame speaks truth, poflefles
every amiable qualily- that can adorn her sex.—
At Berlin her character is held in high estimation.
Her Royal Highness, it is to be hoped, will be
come rtie model of female imitation ; and her
example may banifli from the higher circles those
modish follies which at present prevail, & which,
if not criminal, are certainly ridiculous, and en
gage too much of their leisure and attention.
A printed paper has been distributed at Stock
holm, one of which the King found under his
feat, and of which the following is a copy :
" The Swedish nation will not go to war a
gaintl the French nation :—The law only per
mits our afl'embly to make an offenfive war ; thy
oath obliges thee only to lead its troops for the
service of the nation ; and it is only in this ser
vice that we will fight against who ever offers to
offend or transgress the laws, and are in any wife
deficient in discharging their duty."
By the Nancy, Captain Anderfon, arVived yes
terday in the river, from Rouen, in Normandy,
■we are acquainted, that the utmost rejoicings
were observed in that city, so long celebrated
for its exertions in the cause of freedom, on the
day which the intelligence arrived oftheFrcnch
King's acceptance of the Constitution. Captain
Anderfon adds, that the people of that country
seem so attached to the late changes, that if he
may judge of all France by the peopleof Rouen,
all the powers of Europe united, will not be able
to make them change their political creed.
The price of bread in Paris still continues to
rife, and it is feared may interrupt the public
tranquillity. It is attributed to the failure of the
crops through the southern provinces of France.
In the north the harvest was gtjod.
The plague flill rages at Constantinople, and
still more in the Morea and in Egypt.
The different prefenrs made in Berlin, which
the Duke of Yook diltributed 011 account of his
marriage, cost the sum of 35,000 rix dollars.
The American funds are now much fought af
ter, and have risen within the two last months
from 92 to 120 per cent. The Dutch have fold
out very large Aims from our funds, to purchase
those of America.
Accounts from Canltantinople mention, that
every thing was reduced to order in that empire,
the rebels in Asia and Africa were entirely sub.
dued.
The Dutch have continued felling out of our
funds for fotne time, especially Bank Stock, so
that at the opening of the books last Thursday,
more transfers were made than ever were known
in one day before. The high rate at which thev
have fold will give a vast profit to the foreigners";
but it is a comfort to fee now little the price has
been affe<fted ; not above two or three per cent,
by the prodigious fumsfold out. Nothing proves
more the internal riches of country, than
this circumstance, that when the foreignerschufe
to fell out of out funds, the native stockholders
can take on themselves all that comes to market,
and as the interest of it will in future be paid to
and spent among ourselves, and not remitted a
broad, it will operate to keep up the course of
exchange in favor of this country.
The French king has begun to appoint the of
ficers of his new tioufehold. M. de Bri(lac is
commander in chief of the military department
M. de Harvelly is commander of the infantry,
and M de Point PAbbe of the cavalry.
The Empress of Rulfia has dilbanded the great
er part of her Asiatic troops, and distributed a
inong them implements of agriculture.
The Royal Academy of Berlin lield their' an
niversary meeting 011 the sth ult. the king's
birth-day, when M. de Hertfberg notified, that
amongst several others, the King of Poland had
been eleifled a member of that Academy.
The.dilturbances which existed in the Canton
cf Berne, are entirely fettled without bloodlhed.
This morning John Hopkins, Esq. Lord May
or elect, was prelented to the Lord Chancelloi,
ot his house in Ormoud-llreet, and received tilt
lignification of hifcMajeity's approbation.
The King of Spain has lately made confidera
hle promotions among the officers ot hi* army,
and lias intimated an intention ot railing the
pay of his troops. These are very obvious, but
only temporary expedients for fecui ing the obe
dience of troops, between whom and their com
manders there is no common intereit.
Spain seems to lake one leflon from ? ranee.
In order to etfet't the Revolution the more surely,
France encreafed the pay of the soldiers. Spain,
to secure their allegiance to Monarchy, has done
the fame. Ihus has the soldier fared well, whe
ther freedom or delpotifm prevails : but it may
be a bad military leflon, to adopt that cauie
which pays belt.
The Resolution of the Emperor are the nioft
fatal strokes that could poifibly have been given
to the hopes of the refugee princes ; for indepen
dent of depriving them of all expiations si om
him, they will throw a damp upon the success
of their negociations elsewhere.
M E N T Z, O(Sober 17
The French emigrants who were here a few
days ago, received a mefl'age from the Prince of
Conde, requeuing them to repair to him at
Worms ; but 011 their arrival in that city he was
not to be found, having let off for Aichaflen
bourg. By the despair and sadness visible a
mongst tliefe foreigners, it is imagined that the
which M. de Conde delired their at
tendance, was to communicate to them the bad
news of the acceptation of the new conltituuon
by his Molt Chriitian Majesty, which destroyed
every hope of succour from foreign powers to
restore the ancient form of government, and en
able them to return to their own country.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF R E P R ESENTATIVg S,
TUESDAY, December 27, 1791.
The Report of the Committee of the whole House on
the Pojl-Office Bill, was taken into confideratiou.
THE several amendments agreed to by the
committee were read. The firH fe<ftion, as
amended, after some further amendments, was
agreed to—this fedtion details the roads. Second
amendment was to authorize the Pollmafter-Ge
neral to form contracts for carrying the mail on
cross-roads—agreed. In the eighth fe<flion the
rates of portage are eftablilhed by an amend
ment, the lowest at fix cents for a single letter,
and-fhe highest twenty-five cents for the greatelt
dfltance—agreed.
The substitution of " imprisonment for life,"
in lieu of the words " (hall fuffer death," for
robbing the mail, was objetfted to by Mr. Hart
ley, who observed, that for the protection of pro
perty, most countries have ena<sted penal laws.—
Those which have been the moll: sanguinary,
have, I think, not been the molt fuccefsful.
Those of a moderate complexion, have had a
better effedi, without sporting with the lives of
men.
While the Englilh government had irs influ
ence in America, the public mind in molt of the
Provinces was in favor of the former kind. Penn
sylvania was among the fiift exceptions. The
Quakers, who fiift fettled Pennfyl'vania, were
moderate in their manners and principles :
their penal code remained till the late revolu
tion. Ihe independence of America has led to
great inquiry—and we have ventured to change
our laws, and made thein less sanguinary this
has happened in a greater or lefler degree in raoft
of the States.
Life is not sported with, and the idea of con
finement and repentance strongly prevails. As I
have said the other day—we have altered our
laws with great luccefs in Pennsylvania.
What protedion are we to have to this pro
perty ?—What danger is it fubje# to !
The Poftinafter-General will doubtless take
security from the deputies he appoints, and of
those to whom the mail is etitrulled.
This is our security—and there is fcavcely an
instance where a man is punished with death for
a mere breach of trust.
Fines and imprifomnent will be fufficient to
punish the party, and deter others from commit
ting the like bffence.
Ir is not like a robbery upon theperfon, taking
money. There is. in the latter, a complication
of offences—Perfonal security as well as property
are involved, and thecrime inced. Perhaps
robbery ihould be puniflied with death ; Lut I
306
think fine and imprisonment fufficient for the
crime now under consideration. The public
mind would more approve of it than the punilh
ment of death.
Mr. Boudinot agreed in sentiment with Mr.
Hartley. He said that extreme punishments of
ten prevented a jury from convicfting a criminal.
Mr. Barnwell was of opinion thac a crime of
so pernicious a nature as robbing the mail, ought
to he punished with death.
Mr. Liverivore was also in favor of the origi
nal clause. He observed that a felon was never
so secure as when he was hanged out of the way.
In reply to Mr. Hartley's remarks re(pei r ting the
salutary effects ot the new system adopted in
Pennsylvania, he said he did not think they were
so apparent as had been reprefefited—crimes
were (lill committed, he said, in this city; for
that since the meeting of Congress, several at
tempts had beer! made to set it on fire. He said
that punishments, and capital ones, would always
be found necell'ary
Mr. Smith (N.H.) observed, that puniflimelits
ought to be proportioned to the offences com
mitted ; this is not done in the bill—lie there
fore was under the neceUity of voting against the
clause, in order to having fouie modification of
it made.
Mr. Hillhoufe was in favor of the amendment
as reported by the committee.
Mr. Hartley moved an amendment to the
amendment, by driking out the words "for life"
—this was seconded by Mr. Findley, and sup
ported by Mr. Kittera — who observed, that it was
a principle in jurisprudence not to too much
in the discretion of the judges. This amendment
was carried.—On the queltion to agree to thefec
tion as thus amended,
Mr. Baldwin dated sundry particulars to shew
that the crimes and puniftiments referred to in
this bill, were on a totally different principle
from those mentioned in laws already passed by
the Legiflalure of the United States. He ihould
therefore vote against the amendment.
The question. being divided, the firft was on
striking out the clause, " shall fuffer death," —
it pafled in the negative—so that the origiual
clause remains.
The twentieth fedtion, refpedting franking, Mr.
Wadfworth moved Ihould be struck out.
Mr. White observed, that he did not like the
clause as it (lands ; but lie was not for abolifliing
the privilege altogether. He read a clause whicU
very much reftritfted the business, and which he
fliould prefer to the feftion in the bill.
Mr. Hillhoufe said he had thought favorably
of the motion ; but on more mature considera
tion, and after hearing the arguments on the
fubjeift from gentlemen in favor of it, he was of
opinion it would be bed to retain the privilege.
Mr. Wadfworth observed, that finding a great
alteration had taken place in the sentiments of
gentlemen on the fubjett,' he had been induced
to renew the motion.—He observed thac the evils
resulting from the pradiice, he had found on en
quiry, were much greater than he had supposed ;
but if the practice is retained, he fliould greatly
prefer the proposition of the gentleman from
Virginia. He doubted not that a revenue might
be raised from the poft-office, and in a way which
would be perfectly agreeable to the people, pro
vided abuses were kept out of the department, by
franks and other means.
Mr. Sturges replied to Mr. Wadfworth.—He
obl'erved that it was not to be confiderd as a pri
vilege conferred on the members, but intended
solely for the benefit of the people ; it had not
been complained of—was productive of the mod;
fulutary consequence he did not think the
difad.vantages counterbalanced the numerous be
nefits resulting from it. As to the abuses men
tioned, he had greater confidence in the honor
and integrity both of the present members, and
those of any future national legislature, than to
suppose they would abnfe the privilege. Ke was
in favor of every neceflary rellricftion, but still
for retaining the fubllance of the ciaufe.
Mr. Gerry replied to Mr. Wadfworth.—Keob
ferved, in the course of his remarks, that Lhe ar
guments offered for abolishing the privilege,
were the most forcible in favor of retaining it.
Mr. Kittera observed, that though the revenue
of the poll office might at firft be afFe(fted, yet he
was of opinion that the correspondencies which
would ai ife from tliofe begun by franking, would
eventually contribute to an encreafe of the re-
venue.
[The further consideration of the amendments
was poltponed.]
WEDNESDAY, January 18.
A bill to reimbuiTe certain extra expences of
the late comniiffioners for ti eating of peace with
the Creek Indians, having been read a second
time, and referred to a committee of the whole
house on Wednesday nexr, it was (on motion of
Mr. Giles) resolved, that the Comptroller of the
treasury be dire<sled to lay before the honfea
copy of the account of the said extra expenles.
A meflage, from tlie President of the United
Stales, was delivered by Mr. Secretary Lear, to
gether with the copy of an acftof the Legiflarureof the state of Vermont, ratifying, in behalf of
that ltate, all the articles of amendment, propol
eti to the Conliitution of the United States.
A report from the committee to whom was re
ferred the Prelideut's melfage, relative to a let
ter from the Attorney .General, was read and laid
on the table.
The houl'e relolveil itfelf into a committee of
ihe whole, on ihe communications trjm the l'ie
fident,ieljieCting tile Western frontiers —where-
upon the doors weic ordered to be Ihut.
THURSDAY, January 19.
On motion, a committee was appointed to en
quire and report whether any, and what alteia
ttons it maybe expedient to 111.ike, in the ot util
ization of the Treasury and War departments.
The house took up the report of the committee
of the whole, 011 the inelTage from the Prelident
of the United States, relative to the lituation of
the western frontiers ;» 0:1 which the doors were
111 111
The honfe being opened, Mr. Fitziimons mo
ved a resolution to this effect, tiiat the Secretary
of the Treasury be directed to lay before the
house such information with refpetft to the finan
ces of the United States,-as will enable the le
gislature to judge whether anv additional reve
nue will be necessary in consequence of the pro
posed increase of the military establishment,
which was agreed to by the house.
The petition of Robert Byers was presented
to the house praying compensation for a four
horse team loft in the service of the United States,
which was read and referred to the Secretary at
War. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, January 20.
Sundry petitions wereread, praying.severally,
for fettleiuent ot accounts, payment ol" balances,
allowance of petitions, cor!ipenl'ations,&c. —these
were referred to the heads us departments.
Mr. Parker then moved that the conGderation
of the report of the Secretary of the Trealui'y on
the petition of Carherine Greene, lliould be re
sumed, by the committee of the whole—which
motion was agreed to—and Mr. Livcrmore took
the chair. The resolutions offered a few days
fiiice, by Mr. Wayne, were read, and it being
moved that they ftiould be adopted, tlie fubjeci
was further difcufled.—The debate continued
through the day. The committee role without
taking a vote, and had leave to fit again.
The House then adjourned till Monday aext.
N E W-V O R K
Extract of a Utter front ft mceton, A'ew-jftifey, January 9, 1792
44 Ainidft ihe variety ot topics which every day bnngs into
conversation, none: has engaged the political circles in this town
more than the late unfortunate defeat of ouf western forccs under
General St. Clair. The event of this expedition was predicted
by many r fpe&able chara&ers, whole habits of life h ;ve given
them opportunities of forming correct opinions on military mat
ters. However eagerly the extirpation of the lavages was antici
pated by the utuefle&ing and inexperienced, theie initiated vete
rans saw things in a different light, and their apprehensions, from
the raw state of our new-iaifcd troops, as well as their total ig
noianceof the Indian method of warfare, have been but too lite
rally verified. This f,cond misfortune has (hewn lis that all at
tempts to reduce the savages must inevitably fail. We are gene
rally of opinion that the money expended in otfenfive operations
—In carrying hostilities to the villages of th/it fugitive race of
people, who < migrate from place to place as convenience diieCts,
■would be\much more eligibly applied towards the extinction of
the heavy load of debt incurred by a jitjl and necefiary war—a war
to emancipate us from tiie (hackles of that power whose claims of
dependency and vaflalage were not moie inequitable than ours
with refpeft to the Indians of the western territory.
44 This contest appears unwarrantable as well on the principle
of justice as of policy—The. fit ft mav be instantly decided by re
curring to the toea of pi poffeflion, by which the fir It occu
pantsare confnlered as legit mate proprietors of the foil, and all
attempts to difpofL is them must be pronounced ir.delenfible. As
to the policy of this territorial war, a variety of unanfwerahle
jeafons prcfent themlelvcs. A young empire, just emerging into
existence, embarrall''d with debts, a federal government, scarcely
eftsblifhed, susp» nded 011 the flcnder thread of opinion—shew us
the evident necrffny of an undivided attention to the arts of
However pacific the alpett of the political expanle may now ap
pear, it is not impiobable that a pei fevtraifce in the present system
of public mea'ures with regard 10 the weft, may oocafion a con
siderable ferment, if wot difaffe£bon.
4 * The ready, the virtuous, the magnanimous acquiescence of
our citizens in (;he pre lent impofuions on commerce, orig'nated
in an idea that the monies so raife-d would be expended frugally
and with care.
41 Tfie Indian war—a war thought unneceflfary, ineciuitable
and impolitic, is therefore objectionable, and hence it is inferred
that the enormous sums annually expended on so unjjftifijble a
business, is mere prodigality.
44 To fatisfy the public mind, and to retrieve the declining re
putation of our council*, i.t appears to be indifpenfibly rcquifite
jthat the military system (hould be totally reversed ; all idea of
fconaueft or expulsion should be rejected as fallacious, and such
measures pursued, as may give tranquility to the frontiers, and
reftote the public confidence. Themoneyfnow wafted in one year,
for raising troops to be hutchercd in the western forefts, would be
more than fuflicient to quiet the Indian tribes for twenty.' You
mav perhaps think my solicitude too great, and my apprchen
fions bordering on the chimerical, but I afi'ure you I feel the full
force of an honest conviction. I unequivocally aftert the neces
sity of some fpecdy change in public measures—and do not hesitate
to avow it as my decided opinion, that unless an alteration of the
present system soon takes place, a pauial revolution of a certain
office wi II be the confiquence.
Jan. 18. At a Meeting of the Stockholders of the MILLION
BANK of New-\ ork, agreeably to the adjournment of yeftcrday,
the following relolutions wereagreed to ;
Robert Troup, Esq. in the ehair.
After producing to the Stockholders the fubferiptions made,
and the ratio or apportionment to each agreeable to the number of
lhares fnbfcribed, it was resolved that
for every 30 (hares subscribed the ratio Ihould be fixed at
three.
for every 20 fyares subscribed ihc ratio fhuuld be fixed at two,
rry (hare fu'ofcribed undsr 20, the ratio should be fixed
For ei
ai m
A motion was made and carried, that a committee of five
(hould be appointed to draw up a conllitution, and the following
gentlemen nominated and appointed :
Melancton Smith,
Urockholst Livingston,
Robert Lenox,
Robert Troup and
Cornelius I BboART,
Who are to pref. n' the fame on Monday evening next.
A root ton was made and carried, to oo ft pone the script pay
meins of ftiaros and the ele&ion of D rettors, till after the Report
maoe by the Committee of the Confbtntion.
Resolved, that the Stockholders adjourn, to meet again on
Monday next, the 3d. instant, at Corre's Hotel, at 5 o'clock
f\ M.
Yesterday morning a Hind-bill, was diflributed through the
City, containing Proposals for a Bank of Two Millions,
In confequcnce of which a number of Citizens attended at the
time appointed, and we hear, that upwards of One Thousand
Shares were fubferibed tor.
The trade and buf'nefs of the Nation,
Exceeds all human computation ;
One hank no longer can fuffice,
And fee in cJufters how they rife !
To-day, the wealth that ne'er Jha.ll be*—•
To-morrow rolls in like a sea !
For millions are as quickly made
As you can call a spade—a spade—
Ho ! you that fan* all toil and trouble, }
Would make a fortune—or would double— >
Read these Direthons for a—bubble— )
D'aw all your ft attered wits together,
And then in ink-pot dip a feather,
Dafti off a banking plan—so pretty—
And circulate it round the city :
Then ope your books at Corre's Hotel,.
And in a moment what.a total !
A greedy, grasping group, surround vou,
And eager to fubferibe confound you!
This done behold the balloon caper,
Transfcrr'd to twenty reams of paper;
Cut into handsome handy itrips,
And dubb'd the million banking scrips ;
These, ere rhe press can give them vent Sir,
Shall jell for more than, cent, percent. Sir.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FROM A WORK NOT VET PUBLISHED,
LETTER I
Madam,
I AM not at all concerned to think that this letter may he les s
entertaining than fomeothers I intend to fend you—l know
you will think a kind letter from a friend as good as a diverting
one : He that gives you his mirth makes a much less prefentthm
he who gives you his -heart; and true friends would rathci fee such
thoughts as they communicate only to one another, than what
they offer promiscuously to the world. They who can set a right
value upon any thing, will prize one tender, well meant word, above
all that evci ma<le them laugh in their lives ; if I did not think (o
of you 1 fhouTd never bave taken much pains to endeavor to
please you by writing or any thing else ; wit I am sure I want—
at least in the degree I fee others have it, for not content with
fuuffing the candle with their own fingers* they are willing to
fingeothets with th« fnuff— but I would be thought to have iome
qualities that mav be (asoccafion may require) of more comfort
to myfelf, and ot more service to my friends. I would cut off
my own head if it had nothing bur wit in it, and tear out my
own heart, if it had no better dispositions than to love only my
felf, and ridicule and deceive my neighbors in sport. I know you'll
think it an agreeable thing to hear that I have written three whole
Cantos of my Persian Tale, the Medead, and that it will appear in a
couple or three months 111 a neat pamphlet.— If it be tolerable,
the world may thank you for it, for if I could have seen you eve
ry day, and imagined my company could have pleased you as
well, I should scarce have thought it worth my while to please
the world. How many verses, and telltale letters (though not like
the Bilhop'sot *****) could 1 gladly have left unfinifhed, had I
been permuted to pals those hours more pleajingly. Whatever
some may think, fame is a thing I am much less covetous of, than
your friendfhip, (or that I hope will last all my life, the other
I cannot anfwerfor; —What it they both should grow greater al
ter my death ? Alas! like the fame of old Davy the ballad finger,
my papers would have few correspondents, fewer readers, and no
female friends at all, they would both be of no advantage to me.
Think therefore ferioully on this, and love me as well as ever you
can while 1 live, and continue in good dispositions. Your'.s as
ulual. [paidJor~\
Philadelphia, January 21.
Further Intelligence by the lat?Jl arrivals from Europe.
The Dey of Algiers has declared war againil the King of Swe
den—The plague (till rages in Conftabtinople— and in Egypt it
has deilroyed 200,000 people.
Two rebel Beys have made themselves mailers of the Capital
of Egypt, and have entirely seized on the government.
The Inhabitants ot Aleppo have 3lfo revolted againil the Turk
ifli government, and obliged the commandant and the troops to
evacuate the City.
In conlequence of the peace established between Spain and Al
giers, the former is to be allowed the privilege of eftablilhing a
Company of Spanish Merchants at Oran and at Mafalquivir.
The want of Union only, among the difatfedted in the Low
Countries, or Aulbian Netherlands is faia to pievent the flames
of civil war from breaking out afrefh.
On the 16th Oft. the Royal Pnfon at Madrid was .reduced to
ashes—the prisoners to the number of 210 were saved from the
flames.
Morton Eden, Efq ; is appointed British Minister Plenipoten
tiary to the Court of Berlin. Charles Mjcc, is appointed Britiih
Agent and Consul at Algieis.
American EmifTaries are said to be traversing the Highlands o!
Scotland for the purpose of seducing the Inhabitants to emigrate
to America—which accoiding the Enghfh paragraphias always
terminates in Mifeiy, and ends often in the Slavery oi the deluded
emigrant- ! !
PROGRESS OF THE FRENCH CO UNTER•RE vO LUT Ic N
The Marquis de BouiUe galloping with a drawn sword in his
hand, and a very long pair ot spurs at his heels, from capital to
capital of the the northern kingdoms of the continent, vowing
vengeance, and putting much cayen into his soup wherever he
Hops to d> ne.
Monf. Calonne, not galloping, but creeping from court to
court in five-hund red difguifes,and talking to every body he meets
by nods and winks.
An hundred thousand men, with large whi(kers,from no boc'v
kx.o*s where, quartered at a little village on the fiontiers (f
France
The army following the Piinces, an cxccllent army—in ijfiurs,
if it had but men !
307
Heigh ho!
The Marquis c!e Bouille uiili a iar,, e speaking trumprr, np o q
the borders ol the kingdom, calling the Ndtioual Aftembiy
names.
All the kings of Europe met ; n Congress some where or other
drelfed in the dilgyjte ot the wiiches »n Macbeth, boiling up to/l
and trouble for Monf. de !a Fayette. Bouiile as Hecate.—
one (hall {hare of the gains !"
The five £x Princes writings protefTagainfi the new Oonfti
tution upon a very inflammatory paper, moiiu on pui
pofe, with which they mean to ileal (lily by nigiit, and fee tiie to
Paris M Vive le Roi !" Finis.
Extrafl of a letter from hojlon, dated Jan 7, 17 q?.
" The season has bcoh remarkably moderate h.erc, and to this
day we have not fufHcient fuow to make fleying. It is also a
healthful season, and there is lei's complaint among the people,
and less poverty, than we have known for many years. These
aie great blelfings, and demand the highct* gratitude to our divine
benefa&or."
Extratt of a letter from the Pafl-Majler at Hartford, to the Editor, dated
January 16, x -
" Am sorry to inform you, that since my last of the 4th ult. frc
more bundles of your papers have failed. Our people are quite
difcouraged ; all that I now hold them by, is a promise oV pan. -
tuality, as soon as the Poft-Office Att gets through. Be ple^fcd
to stop immediately Mr. , and Doctor also General
, and Colonel—i—, unless you are furc your files will pro
duce all their miffing numbers, which are about each."
The numerous complaints which the Editor has recently
received from the Eastward, ot the failure of his Gazette, at th s
interesting season, are occasioned by their being flopped at th£
Poft-Office in New-York.—The Editor having been told that
the Post-Master of that city, has informed the Gene
ral that he has not been able to fend on any newspapers for several
week? !
Extract of a letter from a gentleman at Frederick-Town, to his Friend
in Baltimore, dated the iflinjlant.
" An Officer, just arrived here, who was in the late dreadful
conflifl in the western country, speaks of the late EnfignGEOnce
Chase in the most exalted terms —His bravery (amidlt many ex
traordinary instances of hcroifm) was furpafled by none ; He (til
frnne diftauce in front of his men, the firft charge that was made,
and, when he could no longer lead, encouraged them to goon,
obfcrvin-T that he was wounded hut (lightly, and would follow
immediately—ln 10 or 15 minutes lie expired, with a serene
smiling countenance. Thus fell this gallant promising young gen
tleman—much loved, admited, and lamented !
" General Butler, that great and good man was (hot through
the breast. He soon after became so feeble as to faint several
times—When he was put on horseback, he was focolle&ed as to
have the flint of his pistol cocked, and as he fit, lupported by
some bags of flour, told those who parted with him, that he never
r xpe£ted to go off that ground, but that he would fell binifrffas
dear as he could—He lived dearly beloved by his men, and died
as lincerely lamented by those arid all others who knew him---
His bravery and conduct in the battle has so rivetted the affettions
of his followers, that his memory will be revered by them as
long as they shall possess the power of recollection."
The following is an authentic lift of arrivals at the port of New-
York from January Ift i 791, to January tft j 792, viz. 1 <20 (hips
and barques, 280 fnowsand brigs, 1 galliott, 1 polacre, :58fchoon
ers, 158 Hoops—toial from foreign ports 718—and 1101 coasters.
By comparing the preceding lift with that in the Philadelphia pa
pers during the fame period, it appears that there is a balance of
151 veffcls, from foreign ports, in favor of Ncw-Yoik, and 407
coasters.
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
It would be candid in those who mention the great duties
which they lay are laid by Congress, to let it appear, (hat some
of the highest of them are not expelled to produce any revenue,
but are calculated to prevent the home demand for raw articles
we can raise and procure by our own industry from being taken
away by rival articles, sent hither by foreigners so the injury of
our farmers, filhermen, Sec. The following duties, whieh are
among the highdt, aic direst bounties on agriculture, viz. On
cheese four cents, malt ten cents, indigo twenty-five cents, hemp
fifty-lour cents. Sec. Sec. The following articles are so easily
manufaftuied from native materials, that the duties on them are
indirect bounties on agriculture, and the landed lntereft, viz.
Tallow candles two cents, soap two cents, wax candles fix cents,
malt liquors five cents, cordage 100 to 150 cents, manufa&ured
tobacco, tanned leather, eaithen nnd ware, milliard, &
ten per centum. The duties on coal, iron, lead, See. are boun
ties to the landholders, and will yield little revenue. .Several
other duties are mere protections to manufactures, and do not
produce anything of confequenee to the federal chest, fnch as
the duties on shoes and boots, manufactures of coppcr, spikes,
wool cards, paper, gold and silver wares, carriages, wooden fur
niture, tin wares, See. Sec.
We are told that <c the whole country" is laid under a heavy
excise. To be sure, if one state or one county pays the excise,
" the whole" mull, because by our fair and equal constitution no
gart of the union can be called upon to pay a public contribution
but by a law which applies to the whole. As to the " heaviness"
of the excise, it will puzzle the molt knowing man to mention
in what country so light an excise exists, though it will be easy
to find an example of one twelve tunes as heavy abroad.
The United States never sent forth so great a value of produce
in any two years, as in 1790 and 1791, nor did the merchants in
this country ever in any two years order out and import so great
a value of goods as in those two yeais, nor did they ever own so
many tons of (hipping, nor were the veflels ever more generally
good and handsome ; yet it isfuggefted that " trade is daggering
under the impost."
Jt is the opinion of many judicious persons in d fferent parts of
this country, (hat lands improved and unimproved have advanced
in price from 20 to 30 per cent, since the year 1789. City pro
peity is every where more advanced. Old branches of bufincfs
are extended, none have fallen off, new branches are daily ap
pearing in different quarters. These things will yield to men of
ibber thought fatisfa&orv proof that the general fvftcm of Con
gress is beneficial to the general ihtercfts.
If the paflions of children arc not controuled and regulated by
their parents when young, the !a ws multcpntroul them when ! h y
come to be men — there is no other alternative. F>r that indul
gence which too many children are the unhappy fubje&s of, nur
tures vices, which, in riper years, without the reftramt of the civil
magiftra.e, would render them the pests of society. In a free
country, wh. re the law is fuprerne, the above remark applies to
rich and poor—lo the former oerhaps with the greatcft force.
An Epithalamium' poll
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents £4/8 pr. £ . 1 ,?J P T » cent
3 pr. Cents 15/ 75 do.
Defer ed 6 pr. Cent.« 15/2 77 do.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett], and othei Certificates 21/6 107£ do.
Indents 14/6 7 2 i_^ Q '
Bank Stocjc— half ftTares JO9 per cent premium.
— whoie (hares 60 per ccnt.
fiDlej tn our next.'Thefallowing epitaph was written by Mr. S- ,oj Pottjmcuth,
(N. H.; on hisjritnd J. Parker, jEfq.
LET Pride build marbles, and repeat
The honors of the rich and great ;
More sterling virtues here lie low,
Than Titles—Rank, or Riches know—
Tho chiJdlefs dying, y< t from high
When the lait trumpet rends the iky,
Unnflinber'd Orphans low lhall bend,
And hail thee lather, guardian, friend,
Thy numerous charities avow
To all the hoil of Heaven—whilst thou
A name more glorious (halt receive,
Than daughteis, or han fonscan give.
That plaudit of thy judge—Well aone,
Receive the unfading heav'nly crown,
And thine eternal as the Sun.
4
PORTSMOUTH, (N.H.) Dec. 28.
Extrafl of a litter from a g:ntlim:r. in Bop an to his
friend in this town.
" The rapid and continued rife of real eftare
is ascribed to the great redundancy of cash, and
the efficacy and (lability ot government. Rents
and landed property here have advanced more
than forty per cent, within the lalt fix months,
and are (till rising ; as the moniedmen want em
ployment for the floods of cash that have been
lately pouring in upon them. How different is the
present fitnation from that a few years since.
Men were then facrificing their lands for cajl)—
they are now as eagerly vesting their cash in lands.
Thus you fee, each one will have his day,—at
the southward land speculation rages dill higher,
and the speculators in public paper finding that
harvest past, now bend their attention with equal
ardor, to speculation in landed property."
The National Aflembly of Prance have mani
fefted their loyalty in an exemplary manner,and
like a let of able Physicians, they have given that
to their King, of which all monarchs (land in
need, a good Constitution !
PROVIDENCE. January 7.
The amount of duties on goods, wares and
merchandize, imported into the diftridtof prov't
dence, between the last day of June, 1791, and
the Ift day of January, 1792, as fecnred at the
Cuftoni Houi'e, is 23,059 Dolls. 86 Cents.
Amount of ditto on
tonnage of v«fl'els, 5
Total, 23,469 73
ALBANY, January 9.
Let quakers petition, and Ipeculative charac
ters who glide only 011 the furface, fay what
they will on the fobjed of an Indian warfare,
the plain English of the business is, that we can
never obtain a permanent peace with these bar
barians till we have reduced them to the feet of
Congress—The origin and justness of our eaufe
•re now totally out of the qoeftion.—lt is indeed
to be severely lamented, that we could not have
obtained a peace by fair treaty —bat every one
who knows any thing of the nature of savages,
moil know that this deiirable event can never be
obtained, while ttfey are riding triumphant in
the arms of victory.—lt will therefore be the po
licy and interest of Congreft, in our own defence
to make a decisive effort the enfujng campaign.
It is supposed, 6,000 men to begin an early cam
paign by penetrating into the heart of tbeiT coun
try from the Ohio—and half that number to pro
ceed through the interior of this ftatc, either to
eftabliih polls on Lake Erie, or to form a jnn&i
on with the southern army so as to diftraifi the
savages between two fires—would be completely
competent to every purpofe —but it would per
haps be better for America, even to double this
force, rather than to linger along two or three
year's feeble and nndecifive campaigns.
KNOXVILLE, November 19.
About the 10th inft. a company going through
the wilderness to Catnberland, was met on the
road by a party of Indians. Upon firft fight thfe
men (being seven in number) rode off with the
utino(t precipitation, and left the women (four
in number) who were sb terrified that they were
unable to proceed. The Indians came up, (hook
hands with them, and told them they (honld not
be hurr, made a fire for ttiefti, and caught a stud
horse, that one of the company had jumped from,
which they tied to a tree. They then went af
ter n fmail boy who was attempting to make off,
and brought him back to the women. Four of
the conipar.y did not Hop till they reached the
fettlement —ihe other three returned to the wo
men after some time.
[The above extract is taken from a Gazette,
printed at Knoxville on the Holften, iu the Ter
ritory of the United States, south of the Ohio ;
and we have a pleasure in hearing that the wo
men, who had been defertcd by their fellow tra
vellers, were indebted for this remarkable proof
of friendly attention, to a hunting parry of Che
rokees ; the nation with whom Governor Blount
made a treaty last summer.l
principal d' l i.
jury Afj'o sLi*i.
19c Editor.
X.
v- 3
4°9
*~ -.»».•• - M \ . T
■iiiUii.
'■i : * i e T■"*.
v* 5-ja ' totefoLdh
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Townlhip of Benfelem, in the County of Bucks,
Ef'quire, decealed, pursuant to the Directions
of his last Will and Testament.
ON T Tuesday the 27th of March next will be cxpofed to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, on the piemifes—One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, fuuate 011 the river Delaware; on
which is ere&ed a handsome two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good barn,ftables, li2V-houfe,
and other convenient outhouics. A good orchard of the best kind
of grafted iruit, now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and in good order; aud a lhad and herring fiftiery before the door.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a futiiciency of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the post-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; containing
about two hundred and seven acres, the grcateft part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, (tables,
and other oiithoufes. with a young thriving orchard of the best
grafted fruit, and a ihad and herring fifhery. It has long been a
well accuftorned tavern; and the ferry belonging to it, known by
the name-os Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the best profpe&s on the
nver, and are remarkably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about fixtv-three acres, situ
ate in the townftiip of Southampton, in the county aforefaid ; on
which are ere&ed two log-houses. There is a fmail orchard, and
a great fufficiency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lot. four acres, situate on the great post-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log dwelling-house, and work-lhop ad
joining, with a well of excellent water at the doer : now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the*fame time and dace, will be f old all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniture, Farming Utcnfils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchase
money to be paid down, and the rema nder in two yearly pay
ments with interest.
JOHN SWIFT,
JOHN M. NESBIT, > Executors.
SAMUEL BENEZET. )
(eptm27l
IMPERIAL HYSGN, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market Streets.
A few TICKETS in 3d and last Class of the
NEW-JERSEY LOTTERY.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER 8c AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBTofeverydefcription,onCo«»B/^(m,
at the following rates:
OX the specie amount of all sales at audion, one eighth pei
cent.
On ditto at Drivate sale or purchase, one-half per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent. 4 - on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers ac d\itn,fevcnt\-fit: cents per transfer.
Such persons as may incline to favor the fubferiber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with punduality,
fidelity and diffutch. His long experience and extensive dealings
:n the public Hocks, together with a well eftablilbed correfpon
deace throughout the Unued States, enable him tocondutthis
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
OSoher 15, 1791
Annapolis, January 1, 1792.
At a Meeting of the Viiitorsand Governors of St. John's College,
in the State of Maryland, on Thursday the toth of Novem
ber last.
RESOLVED,
THAT this Board, at the quarteriy meeting in May next, pro
ceed to eied a Vice-Principal of Sr. John's College.
" That it be the duty of the Principal and Vice-Principal, to
teach force of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek, crna n
parts of th; Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural Ptvlofo
phy ; and that the departments of th; laid Principal and Vice-
Principal (ball heieafter be alcertained with precision, on confi
derationsof their mutual convenience and refpeftive Qualifications.
That the Vice-Principal fha .be er.i :cd to receive, for h ; s ser
vices, a salary of three hundred and fiftv rounds, current money,
rating dollars at - ft each, to be V:id quarterly.
Tnat persons dcOrous of, and qualified tor'the appointment of
Vice-Principal, br, bv oarlic acveriifemept req':td-d to make ap
plication to Mr, Charles Wallace, Mr. Chat lea Carroll of Carroll
ton, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hinfon. all of the city of Anna
polis. By order of the Board,
JOHN THOMAS, tVefidem.
N. B. The fondamnital Laws cf Sr. John's College prohibit all
preference on account of r lifnout tenets or opinions.
As the appointment of a Vice-Principal is alone wanted, to
compleat the plan of this rifinc seminary, the Board will certainly
proceed to the eießion at the dated lime; provid»d a person no
tified, in heir judgment, for this important Ration, can be pro
cured. The perfon.il at'endance of the candidate:, although not
pofitivelr required, will be obvoudv proper.
It mav be ufefel to remark, that the falaiiesof all the profeflots
? nd teachers have hitherto been paid withentirr punAuahtv : and
that the funds ol St. John's College produce a certain annual in
come, furerior to all the appropriations which have been, or pio
bably will be made.
83* The Printers of newfp»per» throughout r v e United States'
arc MincWy requesters to insert the above resolve and remarks—!
and 'o repeat the publication as often as convenience will permit.
TO B E SOLD BY TBI EDITO*,
A TABLE for receiving and Gold a: the Bank of the
A A. United States, flirw;n» the Value of Gold in Dn'.'ars aid
Cents. !T»m One to a Thoufir.d Penovweights— according "> the
AS of Congreft, afcertaimng the Standaid ;r.d Value of Gold.
f£T Tie JOL RWiLtfti- TUtRD S ESS ICS of Mr SENJTE
#/tie UNITEj) STATES t mt it kidif the EJjlct kircsf.
ADVERTISE M F X T
§3* BY hie trtntls frtm Frnte. tie Editor *»
INU "ConuroxDANci NATIOVJI
Frnt AV. i AV io, k*?eber* -ffrfVs. f*f err *r/ t«/ c*•-
308
Arot-Yirk, No. 57, King-Street.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T IN, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-War ehouse, two doors
south of Walnul-ftreel Whart, adjoining their New Fadory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general affort
mentofSHOT of all (izes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English woikmen, ihev wairani it to be
f qual in quality to anv manufa&ured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They aifo continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. A i orders addreiTed to either of <he
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
shortest notice.
N. B. Wanted, induftricus, sober, Labouring Men, ar the fiid
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encousage
rpents will be given, means of conveyance being provided, aud
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of MefTrs. Moses Aust i n & Co.
at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
TO BE SOLD.
BY JOHN CAIIEY,
N'o. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
"Which may be fern every dav, untilfir? o'clock, r. m.
Among thin, are thefollowing :
Folic. TTOMER, Xeuophon, Plato, P.utaich, Eu r ebius. Soro
-11 men, Theodoret, Virgil. Horace. Livy, Tacitus, Pater
culus, Plinv. Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceronis. Biblia Jonii and Tremellii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulae—Phavoriui—Martinii—Hoffman: Lexica, Voflii Etymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Sritannicae. &r.
Quarto. P:ndar, Cyropaedia, Bentley's Horace. Terence and
Phjedrus, Ovid. Juvenal, Manilius, Cicerone op. om. Cxfar, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hedcrici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram. Cluve
ni Geographia, Justinian Code, See.
Octavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Ariflophanes. Longinus,
Theophraftus, Hef»od, Poetie minores Gr. Ifocrate*. Phalaris, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, P!as
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus. Aufonins, Buchanan,
Sailuft, Curtius, Floaus, Juftin. Val. Maximus, A. Gellius, Hist.
August. Scriptores, Englijh and French Tranjlutiens of 10me of the
Claflics, a great variety ot Greek and Latin Grammars, See. Szc.
§3" Catalogue* may be had of Meflrs. Rice & Co. Bonkfellers,
Market-street, or of JOHN CAREY.
October 3 1. (cp if.'
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSIO N,' by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnnt-Street,next door to the Bank, No. gy.
THAT beautiful and elegant fitcation on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the fub
fenber now reiidrs; about 25 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvement*, which area neat and commodious two ftorv house,
compJeatly finifbed from the cellar to the garret, a kitenrn, laun
dry, meat-house, dairv, two story barn, and ice house, all finifbed
in the bed manner, together with fever3l other neceffarv ouihoufes,
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a fk'llful gardner now em
ployed »n putting it in fine order; the land well enclosed with a
post and rail fence ; a well, and springs of excellent water—the
profpecl is equalled by few, and excelled bv none in America—
Contiguity to Alexandria, the Federal Town, and George-
Town, having a fine and full view of each place, mull render it in
a few years of great value, bein * diredl J in a line of communica
tion from Alrxandria to the other two towns. Should a purchaser
offer befoie the 15th of February next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indiloutable title, clear of all incumbrances, wi»l be made
bv the fabferiber. I will also fell with this p'.ace, 22c Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 miles d'.ftant, which will fu:t well to sup
port the above in wood and timber.
Deccwkr 14, 1791
Jaxuaky I, 1795.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the mi i tary irtraliis
of the United States, that the sums to which thev are intitled
for fix months of their annual pension, fiotn the 4th day of Sep
tember, 1791, and which will become due on the sth day of
March, 170°, w 11 be paid on the said day hv the Comm-fEonerj
ol the Loans within the dates refpeQivelv, under the uluai regu
lations, v: r.
Everv application for payment mud be accompanied by th;
following vouchers.
id. The certificate given by the (late, Tptcifvin; that the- per
son poffr fling the fame is in fatf an invalid, and afccrtaiQing the
sum to wmch as such he is annualjy entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form
A. B. ci me before me. oueofthe Jufticejof thrconnrr of
in the (late of and made oath that he ij the fame A. B. tm
whom the original certificate in his potTefljnn wi< given, of wiich
the foi "win® '5 a copy (the certificate given b* the tta:e to be re
cited Tnathefervrd (regiment, corps or vcfiel) at the time he
diXabied, and that he now tetides in the and count* of
and his -elided there for the lift years, prevails to wh:ca t
refided m
cafe an mva.id fhou'd app'y for pivnifn: bv jn a{ronwj,thc
said attorney, besides "ie certificate and oath before recited, mjit
produce a special leuer of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. B. of county of state of do hereby conft#
ture arc appoint C. D. of mv lawful attnrnev.to receive in mr
behalf of my oenSon for tpontl-,, as an inralid of tre l"o -
t.-d Siates, from the f.ijrih day ot September, one thousand {even
hund red and n netv-ooe, and endm» the fourth day of March, oat
thousand (even hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and sealed
:n the prefeoceof
Applications of executors acd admioiOramrs -rtcil nr aecowt"-
n ed with lejal evidence of rt ped.. e o<Sc«-s, and i.io ot the
time 'he inTal-cs died, whose t>rnSon th; v may
By co.-r.n-andcf the Prrhdrnt of it* United State"..
H. KXOX, Secretary of War.
u.-i-rti f-a
a tie a
; • r -* *nler*in 'Serrfpcfiive ftjre* are r*qnefted tr* p-j&iifii
the above in their newfaapers, for the space of two raomhs.
&C 7" Toe frier *f this Paper is ~ Dtl.-rs;:r am,
Or.e half to bf faij at SalCcr'tHnr.
TO BE SOLD,
War Department.
| WitDfCr*.
Acknowledged before nv
BALD'.VIN DADE.