•Seized oftß . &&£>»
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY iOIIN F F.N NO, No. 69, HIGH.STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 99, of Vol. lII.]
SECOND CONGRESS OF thf. UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at thecity of Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
sylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT for the relief of certain widows, or-
phans, invalids and other persons.
Section i. T) E it enacted by the Senate and House of Repre-
D fentatives of the Uoited Slates of America in
Congefs aflembled, That the Comptroller of the Tieafury adjust
the claims of the widows and orphans refpejftively, as the cafe
may be, of the late Colonel Owen Roberts, Captain William
White, Lieutenant Colonel Bernard Elliott, Major Samuel Wife,
Major Benjamin Huger,Lieutenant John Bush, and Major Charles
Motte, deceased, all of whom were killed or died in the service of
the United States, for the (even years half pay stipulated by the
refolveof Congress of the twenty-fourth day of August, one thou
sand seven hundred and eighty ; and that the register of the Trea
sury do issue his certificates accordingly.
Sec. 2. And be it further enabled, That the Secretary of the
department of war be, and he hereby is required to place on the
invaJid lift, Timothy Mix, disabled jn the late war, by the loss
of his right hand, while in the service of the United Stales, at the
rate of five dollars per month, to commence on the fourth day of
February one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three. That
thefaid Secretary place on the invalid lift, Abel Turiiev, mariner,
disabled while in the fcrvice of the United States, at the rate of;
one dollar per month, to commence on the Tuft day of January,'
one thousand seven hundred and eighty-one.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That the arrears of the said
pensions be paid as the laws direst in firailar cases.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That the Comptroller of
the Treasury be, and he hereby is required to adjust the accounts of
Joseph Pannil a Lieutenant-Colonel in the service of the United
-Srates, as a deranged officer upon the principles of the ast of the
Jaie Congress, of the third of October one thousand seven hun
dred and eighty, and 10 allow him 'he usual commutation of the
half-pay for life of a Lieutenant-Colonel, and that the Register of
the Treasury be, and he hereby is required to giant a certificate for
the amount of the balance due to him. That the Comptroller
adjust the account of the late Dc Haas, admit
ting to the credit of ibcfaid account, such sums as by evidence
ihall appear to have been advanced for the public service, and
which have been charged by the United States to the officers who
!have received the fame for the public service, and that the said
.Register do grant a certificate for the balance due on such fcule
inenr. That the said Comptroller adjust the account of Thomas
Al'lntire, a Captain in the service of the United States, during the
late war, and allow h:m the usual commutation of the half-pay
ior life of a Captain, and that the said Register grant a certificate
for the amount thereof accordingly.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That the Comptroller of
lh; Treasury be, and he hereby is required to adjust the account
of Fr<inc;s Suzor Debtvere, a surgeon's mate in the service of the
United States during the late war, and who remained in captivity
to the end thereof, and that thw Register of the Treasury be, and
he hereby is required to grant a certificate lor th. amount which
fhal! be found due for the fervicesof the said Francis Suzor De
bevere. That the said Comptroller adjust the account of Ro'oeit
King, as a Lieutenant, deranged upon the principles of the ast of
the iate Congress, palled the twenty-fourth day of November,
one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight, and that the said
Reg fter grant a certificate accordingly. That the Comptroller
adjust the account o' Lemuel Sherman, as a failing malter of a gal
°n Lake Champlatn, and as such takeu pnfoner ; and th»:t the
lard Register grant a certificate accordingly.
Sic. 6. Aijd be it farther cnafted, That there be granted to
ic oias Ferdinand Wefttall, who left the Bnt'.fh fcrvice and
joined the array of the United States, during the late war, one
Mindred acres of unappropriat d land in the weftcrn territory of
* ><- Ln tea States, fiee of all charges, and also the ium of three
• ui.nied and thirty-fix doliars, out of any money appropriated
10 contingent charges of government.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Houje of Reprcfentatrves-
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President ojthe United States,
and Frefjderit oj the Senate.
APPROVED, MARCH THE TTEX TY-SEVENTH, 179*.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
['refidijit oj the Ur.itcd States.
AN fnpplemeiual to the A«ft for making
further arid more efFetftial Provision for the
Protection of the Frontiers of the United States.
ena&rd by the Senate and House of jteprefenta'jves of
the United State, of America in Congress assembled, Thai
* flullte lawful f sr ,he Prefix cm of the United States by and
with (he advtceand consent of the Senate to appoint such oumb-r
i~"8 ,<, ' Fr -G<:nerals " may b " conducive to the good of the
public service. Provided the whole number appointed, or to be
appointed [ball not exceed four.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House oj Rcprefcnt^tivcs.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice.PrefdA-.t of the United Stoics,
and Ptefideat of the Senate.
APPROVES MARCH THE TWE N T Y-E ICH TH, 1792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prejiiat of the United States.
Saturday, April 7, 1792.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
IN T every age peculiar follies have prevailed, and theprefcntfecms
to he distinguished for a propeniity to gaming and speculation.
We possess a country which holds out the most alluring motive:.)
to the ex- rtions of the industrious, and enjoy, at the fame time
the greatest degree of political freedom, both ip the piinciples
and administration of our government. But this is not fufficient
to content us—impatient to acquire riches, too many of our citi
zens fnffer themselves to be influenced by an avaricious fpint, the
fruitful parent of the various paper bubbles, every day exhibited
to the admiration and astonishment of the public. Here is ample
scope, it mud be confefled, for the reprehension of the moraiift;
and hence we find the difcontcntcd declaiming on the degeneracy
of the times, and prognolticaiing the tuin of this young and rising
empire. But, Sir, tho' individuals may fall into these predomi
nant follies, and many innocent persons be thereb) ruined, yet, I
am persuaded, they will soon operate their own cure; and the
time is approximating when a fpcciilator or JlvindUr will be (bun
ned, as a dangerous and difhonelt character.
The affairs of New-York and Philadelphia, bring to my mind
the uproar which the failure of For dy re, the banker, caused in
London, about twenty years ago : Fotlijr qucm faciunt alicna pcricula
cautum—as a warning to others, I (ball beg leave to present to
your readers a few anecdotical notices of this gentleman ; it may
serve as an example to display the ill consequences of gafning and
fpeculution, and prevent some of out plain and industrious friends
from treading on such dangerous ground.
Mr. For dy c e was born of a very refpr&able family in Scot
land; he had several brothers, who distinguished themselves as
g»eat and good men in their refpe£live profefGons Being endow
ed with good natural parts, he was a most promising youth, and
aflifted in his education by Do&or Blackwell, a gendeman
well known for his writings in the republic of letters. He was
bred a hosier at Aberdeen; but this being too confined a scene
for the extent of his abilities, he soon quitted it, and repaired to
London, as the great mart for genius, where he soon obtained em
ployment in the capacity of an out-door cleik to MefTrs. B. & Co.
bankers. Here he displayed a great facility in figures, and an un
common attention to that business, in which he afterwards became
so eminent and confplcuous. H s employers being convinced of
Mr. For dyce's talents and abilities, and judging he would be a
very ufeful partner, and manage the most laborious part of their
business, admitted him upon the firm qf the house, threugh the
interest and recommendation of a friend. Scarce had he been
thus eftabliftied, before he began to speculate in the Alley for
very considerable sums, and was judged in the beginning to be
vei y fuccefsfu!, particularly at the time of-'he signing the prelimi
naries of the peace in of which he gained intelligence be
fore the generality of the Bulls and Bears at Jonathan's Coffee-
House.
This success wa<? fatal to Mr. Forhyce—for it induced hiin
not only to speculate for Jlill larger sums in the Alley, but in many
other purfutts, particularly in hops. The capricious goddess dill
favored him, and he feemcd so infatuated with her kindness, as to
think she was entirely at his command. Ke purchased a large
estate, with a most elegant villa, at koehampton, where he aimed
at furpafiing commiflaries & nabobs,in grandeur and magnificence.
He supported a chapel for hirofcU and family, adjoining to his
mansion ; his ambition was now unbounded, he loarcd far beyoqd
the line of mere mercantile splendor, and nothing less than nobi
lity seemed equal to his wishes. The next tcft-monial he gave of
his desire of exaltation, was his being a candidate Tor a certain
Borough ; upon which occasion, though he was not retained, he
spent near 14,000 fieri. and to secure hisfutuieejection, ere&ed
an hospital, and eftabliihed other charities there, in order to ren
der himfelf the popular candidate upon the firft vacancy. Fail
in this attempt to obtain a feat in Parliament, he fought for ho
nours in another channel, and paid his addrefles to a lauy of qua
lity, who, dazzled by his pomp and apparent fortune, consented
10 the marriage; and Lady M was now frequently intro
duced to the public in the papers, her portrait displayed at the
exhibition, and her picture in every print-fnop. He made a hand
some settlement upon her Ladyship, and is favd to have purchased
fonre estates in Scotland, to give him weight and dignity in his
native country.
But the fatal period now approached when all his tinsel glories
vaniflied. The affair of Faulkland Island, which occasioned
Stocks greatly to flu&uate, gave the most sensible shock to his
finances; and to make up his Jpccult.tivt dijfercnct.s, he was com
pelled to employ a very considerable sum ot '.he Company's Stock.
This step alarmed the partners, and they remonftrated'to him upon
the impropriety of his conduct. Mr. Fordyci treated th re
monflrance of his partners with.the most mortifying contempt,
threatening to difiolve the partnership, if they attempted to re
strain his operations, and leave them to manage a bufinffs to
which they were altogether unequal; and to convince them thar
he had power to put his threats in execution, produced bank notes
;o a great amount, which had been borrowed for a few hours to
answer his purpose. Equally (buck with the piaufibility of his
discourse, and the sum, they were ea&ly reconciled. But Mr.
v ordyce's ijl fortune now pursued H*m as rapidly and invarra,
blv as his good genius had before accompanied him ; he found
himfelf iucapable of fulfilling engagements, so very confiderabk
on all hands, that he resolved upon a retreat, after having em
ployed every method his imagination could suggest to oifcovei
some new rcfource. The immediate consequence of his absenting
himfelf from business, was a stoppage of payment at the house,
«ind an advertifemenr succeeded, intimating that the other part
ners were not privy to Mr. Fordyce's proceedings: however,
the whole Company became bankrupts ; the fatal infiutnee of
which afFe&ed a great number of other considerable houses in
volved with them. Such were the effects of gaming in 'Change-
Alley, and such may be the effetts of similar proceedings among
Qlirfrlvcs,
Many unfufpe&ing industrious people were entirely ruined by
this unlucky event. A merchant in the city put an end to his ex
igence with a pistol, on hearing the news ; a confidrrable silver-
had recourse to a knife; a lady, finding herfelf undone,
followed the example ; and a gentleman near Bloomfbury Square
became melancholy.
The following Anecdote is worth notice The dav before
Mr. Fctrdycb flopped payment, he called on a Banker, who
was a Quaker, of whom he deft re a the loan of 20,000 —On
being refufed, and going away dtfiatisfied, the laiier callcd him
back, and said, 41 Harkee, friend, 7W-dice h2ve hint many, but
I promiie thee, Four-dicc fbail never rutn me."
393
UUso
[Whole No. 507.]
With a V iew to render every fpeciej of gaming as detcftable as
poflihle, I would makeafew remaikson the unhappy faie of ano
ther eminent character. The lale D.iftor Dodd was univerfaliv
Tdmirtd and < fleemed, as a polite scholar, an elepant wiifr. and
-m energetic graceful prcac'ner. Charity and brotherly lore, when
recommended with the charms of his path.nc language, warmed
every bnaft; hi 3 hearers hung about him with admiration and
rapture! But, what a falling off! when we contemplate the fine
nun engaged at the card-table, and rattling the dice-box ! —'l was
gaming multiplied his wants—'iwasgaming led him toforgery, in
order to supply them, and forgery led him to the igneminitJm tree!
Religion saw it, and wept, and cried aloud 10 (nilul mortals, " Jet
him thatJi*nd:th t take heed, lejl he jail."
It was not inexperience, or tlie want of knowledge, that in
volved this celebrated Divine in the snares and infatuations of
gaming. I nave heard him prear.h against it like an Angel—but
nreaching and a&ing are two different things. What pen can
delcrihe the effeffs of this odious vice better than his, in that ad
mired Novel, entitled, the " SijlersCaptain Thomas hid met
with a great loss at a gaming table; he grew frantic, and dcftr«,r
ed himself—how elegantly doth Dodo refteft on this oCcafcoji {
" Rut do th«u, if gaming is thy ruling and favourite paflion, Q rea
der ! not yet depart hence, till thou haft well conftdered, and di
ligently meditated on the whole tranfa&ion. Behold here a man
strong in youth, buoyant in health, and blefTcd with piofufe plenry
of this world's good ; behold him in an inltant, by his own h«»nd,
cut off from the sons of men, and blotted from the book of life !
On" fatal caff hath done it ! Beware, and even now flop ihy hand :
thy all. thy present and eternal *//, think and tremble, depends on
those base dies ! This cafl perhaps drives the ball through th'v
diftracled brain, plunges thee in iirecoverable perdition, and
leaves a forlnm. diftrelfed and undone family, to ttrugglewuh
want and "frli&ion ; to languish in sorrow, in penuty and con
tempt. What is the pleasure that can counterbalance the/e ? —
Be wife and reflect—refrain and be happy."
Elkton, April ?, 1792
FROM THE NORFOLK AND PORTSMOUTH CHRONICLE,
FtBLISHED A 1 NORFOLK (viRCINtA.)
IT has been stated as a fafl, and proved on the .floor of Con*refs,
by Mr. Sedgwick and Mr. Bou Jinot, and confirmed by a ma
jority of ihe member-, that discrimination was imprd&irable, be
cause the grcateft part of the public debt was in fi&iiious certifi
cates, and a revffjon of the fc?eral fpccicsof paper that conilituted
the public debt could not be adniitti d.
It was alio brought forward as Ihe moffc powerful and perfoafive
arguments agatpft difcrimmation, htcaule the loldier* had bffiii
fullv paid by the bounties they received at titpe pt their jhi
liftments.
This, however, wa« poor confirmation for the men who had
loaned-their money , nd rendert-d fupplics,and rijceiveo certificates
of ineonfiderable vaiue, forced on" ib< m by the* public, and de
preciated by,their a£h, and compelled to part with their evidences
of the debt at one-sixth of t{»eir nominal value, tor a fuLfillencc
occasioned by a diminution of their flock and other property.
But ?s these gentlemen are unacquainted with military opera
tions, I beg leave to inform them, that contracts in time of war
are estimated according to the magnitude and hazard of the en
terprise—and from twenty to forty dollars per month was given
by merchants for Tailors, according to the risque of the voy age.
And when a soldier inliftcd in the Continental army, he receiv
ed a premium from individuals for the risque of being killed, or
perilling in a sugar houfc in New-York., and apromile from his
courttrv, of fix dollars and two-thirds, as his momhly wages, if he
proved vi&orious.
If the public cid not owe the monthly wages, the certificates
ought not to have been ifiued; and if the oid Congress rffj-ed
twenty millions of dollars wuhout confederation, the new govern
ment ought to have corre&ed the error, and not compelled their
constituents to pay the full sum, with interest, in gold or (ilver,
because they had been purchasers of these demands at is. 6d. m
the pound.
This kind'-of public faith and national honor, being a new reli
gion, and Mr. Hamilton the grand herefiarch, it will be laid open
and fairly explained in an address to the people of the United
Slates, at their next ele&ion.
A CONTINENTAL SOLDIER.
N. B. The public are referred to the Journal oj Congress, in the
committee oj the whole on the Secretary's Report on Public Credit.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CEXTINEL.
MR. RUSSELL,
Ton are defied to publish the following account of
the//os of the ship Columbia, of Exeter, late com
manded by Capt, Isaac Chauncey.
THE snip left Liverpool on the 18th of De
cember last for this port, laden with about
one thousand hhds. of fait, four hundred crares
of earthen ware, and about thirty bales of dry
goods. She made the land of Cape-Cod on the
loth infl. and took her departure from the Race
Point, about 12 o'clock : The wind being to the
southward, and thick weather, it wasjudged belt
to keep the south ftiore 011 board, and 011 the
weather clearing up they found themselves close
ill with Duxbury beach, the ship then hauled to
the wind to the northward, but the wind (hifting
to the N. E. (he could not lay clear of the Brant
Rock ; they then hove about intending for Ply
mouth, and would have gained that port, but
when palling a ledge of rocks, called High Pine
Ledge, it died away calm, and a high sea setting
diredtly on the reef, obliged them to come toan
anchor about 3 o'clock, P. M. on the outside iit
J fathoms of water, but in a quarter of an hour
afterwards the <hip (Iruck on the reef ; they then
got a spring 011 their cable, and cafling the fliip's
head off, cut away the cable and got under fail ;
deepning their water, they came too again m
SEN EX,8 fathoms ; but the wind hauling more to the
eastward, and the sea rising, the ship dragged
her anchor and again (truck on the ledge ; short
ly after the fVern gave away, and the i'alt empti
ed itfelf into the lea ; they then cut the belt
bower cable, and their main and mizen malts, in
order to getting on shore on the beach and fav.
ing their lives, but night coming on, and after
they had beat over the reef, the tide of flood set
ting in, they could not effect it. Their situation
was truly deplorable. The vefi'el, by the vio
lence of the sea was so rent asunder in many
places, it was dangerous to pass : one of the lea
men in endeavouring to get forward was entan
gled in the wreck, and was nearly cut in halves.
The captain, two paflengers, a feamanandthe
cabin boy were forward ; in that fituariovi they
remained until about 8 o'clock A. M. when the
seaman proposed to the captain to get ast for the
{hip went on the beach Hern firft, and attempt
gaining the (bore ; but the captain replied, that
" he was unable ro attempt it," and gave his
papers to the cabin boy : He then resigned him
felf to his f3te : The feamai. and the boy left
him, and jumped into the sea, and had the good
fortune to reach the shore. Wet an and fatigu
ed they crawled up among the bullies, w.here
they would have perifbed but for the exertions
of the two Mr. BurgelTes, who early in ihemorn
ing found them. The remains of the wieck
were spread on the beach for 4 miles in length,
and perhaps the molt di final that was ever seen
on this coalt. The following is the lift of the
unhappy crew that perished in the wreck, and
whose remains were found on the fucceediug
Monday, and decently buried at Duxbury meet
ing house, except the captain, two palfengers
and one of the seamen, who were buried at
Marsh field.
Isaac Chauncey, captain. Charles Roberts,
mate. Joseph Heldridge, Philip Heldridge, bro
thers, paflengers of Birmingham. George Dun
nells. John Sidney. Charles Hicks. Daniel
Buffit. Charles Humphreys. Timothy Harris.
James Floyd. Harris. James Weaun. Au
gustus Jenney; a negro.
John Charles Martin, seaman, and Jacob Tuck
er, cabin boy, were Paved^
Much credit is due to the people in favin-g the
things out of the wreck; a laudable spirit of
emulation appeared in them to preferveihe pro
perty.
Their humanity to the little remnant saved,
does honor to them as men and as christians,
and will no doubt be returned to thein double
fold, by that being, who, the father of compafli
on hjmfelf, admires the imitation of this exalted
attribute in his offspring :—Nor were the liv
ing alone the objects of their kind solicitude,
No ! they became interested iti depositing with
reverence and refpetft the remains of the unfor
tunate crew with a sympathy which none but
the virtuous podefs, and none but the good will
imitate, they paid the last fad offices to'departed
nature.—Like the Samaritan they bound up the
wounds of the unfortunate living, and like the
founder of their religion, they wept at the tomb
of their deceased friends—for friends they es
teemed them.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURSDAY, March 8.
Debate ou the resolution reported by ast left commit
tee—That the Secretary of the Treasury be direct
ed to report hit opinion to the Heufe, on the bell
mide of rai ftng ihtsfi additional supplies which the
public service may require for the current year
TWTII. SEDGWICK (aid that when the law was
-L J- palled, confirming the department of the
trealury, and making it the duty of the secreta
ry to report to the legislature, plans for the in,,
nagement and improvement of the revenue • he
had fondly indulged the hope, that a great prin
ciple _ in the administration of the government
had been so far fettled, that it would not have
been called in cjueftion at so early a period.
Th.s principle he then and still nnderftood to
be, that a great officer fhonld, by appointment
for that purpose and an adequate salary, be re
ipoiiiible to the community, to produce to the
consideration of the national legislature, s uc h
lylttniatic arrangements in the intricate bufmefs
O; finance, as should give the highest afliirance
n (Vn lf P T C ° ' ,ÜbhC credit > with the least
polTible burden to the citizensof America. Thar
if this great principle remained still to be de
termined, he ardently wilhed that we might pro
fit by the experience of other nations, and by
ou; ovn that he knew of no nation that fuffer-
Ed under the weight of a public debr, but had
found it indispensable to its welfare, to appoint
some officer, whole duty it (hould be to superin
tend this important branch of bufiuefs ; and that
without such appointment, it was impossible for
hiin to conceive that an orderly administration
of the finances could be effected. It was not long
since, that all America had attempted to provide
for the public exigencies, by the indigeited
schemes of legislating financiers. The effects
are remembered by nil—the revenue was incom
parably less productive, and yet the people infi
nitely more burdened than at present. These
tacfls would render any other arguments fuper
fluous, with those who believed that experience
was the belt guide to well founded political con
clusions. But on the oilier hand, if gentlemen
were disposed to calculate 011 the data afforded
by imagination, and to build systems on argu
ments a priori, not only unfan<ftioned by expe
riment, but in opposition to all experience ; we
might render the debts we owed, which had
been juflly ftiled the price of liberty, and for
which therefore we were under the highest obli
gation to provide, an intolerable burden. For
he would run the venture to pronounce, that the
nieafures which-would reftilt from such a desul
tory mode of procedure, would create grievous
exa<fliojis on our conftkuents, disappoint the ex
petftations of government, and prove inadequate
to the support of public credit.
By these observations, he did not mean to de
rogate from" the responsibility of the character
of the House colleiftively, or of any individual
member of it. There might be many who had
fufficient talents ably to pi efide in ' the manage
ment of our finances, provided their minds were
confined to the contemplation of that fubje<ft a
lone. But it Should fee remembered that while
separated in the recess of the legifl.itnre, the avo
cations of profeffions, or other business, left to
moll: of the members but li ttle leisure for the in
vefligation of political questions. That while in
session, they were obliged to pay attention to e
very fubjeift of legiflaiion .committed to the na
tional government. That considering the limit
ted faculties of the human mind, he'did think
gentlemen (hould feel themselves wounded in
reputation, by the supposition that they were not
colledively, minutely acquainted with every
branch of feience, a knowledge of which might
be involved in the fubjecfts of our legislation.
Without such aii extent of information and fci
ence, a.man might be an excellent legislator.
Otherwise the business of popular legislation "muff
altogether cease, or be very badly managed. It
would not produce the fmalleit uneasiness in his
mind, to have it, oniverfally known, that he pre
tended not to the deep knowledge of jurispru
dence of the Attorney-General— the acquaintance
of the Secretary of State with the political inter
efls and relations of the community— or the pro
found knowledge of the Secretary of the Trea
fury, of the intricate fubjedis of finance. Yet
he felt Tome degree of confidence in the ability
.W'hich he pofTefl'ed, of judging of the expediencv
of adopting such measures as those officers should
recommend. " >
He observed that the House, ever since the
organization of the executive departments, had
conduced as if convinced of the justness of this
reafoniHg, by their frequent references to the
heads of those departments. That particulaily
when it had been suggested that the judicial fyf
tem required amendment, the fubjetf had been
refered to the consideration of the Artorney-
General. That when the commerce ofthe coun
try came under deliberation, it was refered to
the Secretary of State. That these fubjetfts com
prehended the molt important and dearest inter
ests ofthe pfeople. That he heartily concurred
in thole references, and would take the liberty
to add, that they had the support of the »entle
men who were now so strenuous in oppofnion to
the present motion. That if the House was i hen
right, those would not be wrong who were in fa
vor of this question.
He observed that gentlemen in the two cases
which in argument they had fupported,had'given
very opposite opinions of the collective character
of themembers of the House ; when they were
confideringthem solely devifmg the ways and
means neceflary to supply the deficiency of the
revenue, they gave them all the qualities of pro
found financiers. But when they were to confi
tlle re P°> ts of the Secretary they became at
once transformed into resistless dupes, incapable
ot manly investigation and quietly failing down
the llream of ministerial influence. Did o-entle
men feel, he aflced, in the latter in fiance the
w.int oi that independence of /pirit which is ne
ceflary to enable them to investigate and decide
for themselves ? If so they would want much of
that greatness of character which would enable
them in the former cafe to afor the public be
nefir. r
H e observed that it appeared by what gentle
men had fa id during the course of rtie debate
that members were not to be abfolutelv rellritf.
e ,? m receiving every species of information
on this interelUng fubjecft, from the man who
394
was constitutionally felerted, a, the befi „ uali
fied to give ,t, and amply paid bv the li,"
d<.o, e ,11 hi. ,i.„„ .nd P uV D « „ JS" 1 !" "
communicate refpetfting it. I t Wiis however c „
nous to obferye the narrow limits within which
wasjo be r.ftridted.and , he „
comprehenfibJe Mode by which it w'as to £ 2
Thegentleman from Virginia "(Mr
-ho had heretofore approved tie
which he had mentioned to the Attorney-General
and ri*-Secretary of State; and who had oiv en
efficient aid in making it by law the duty o g f 2
Secretary of the Treaty to repo, c plan's for h
management and improvement of the .even"
had on this occasion taken some pains to fl.ew ,£
confidence of his political conduct, by attend!
ing to prove that management and improvement
implied neither project nor appropriation. Thi
gentleman had given in. detail :he several nro
ceedings which ought to take place to obtau on
one hand the benefit of the knowledge of theSe
ci etary, and to maintain on the other the inde
pendency of the House. Thus according t0 hi ,'
plan was the business to be pursued. TheHoj -
was in the firft place to call on the Secretary for
a Irate of fads ; it was then to resolve itfelf into
a committee of the whole to form opinions these
opinions were then to be referred to the Secre
tary, for him to report, refpeding them a fyf
rematic arrangement. Let this scheme.so far as
it is intelligible,be examined. Fir (I the Houfeis
co obrain from the Secretary a Itate of iVt;
The House had been left to conjetfure to what
fubjeifts those fads were to relaie—we already
knew the deficiency to be provided for—thefub
jeds of revenue—fucli as were pre-occupied, and
-Inch as dill remained untouched—we also knew
how far those which had been occupied were
productive. These fads were already known ;
we must not receive any opinions or argument*',
jive deductions refpetfting them ; this would go
in deftrudion of the independence and parity of
the House, and some gentlemen feetned to sup
pose to the subversion of liberty. The facts
whatever they might be were to be referred to a
committee of the whole, who as financiers were
to form opinions refpeding them —and those
opinions were to be sent to the Secretary for a
systematic arrangement, and this systematic ar
rangement was to be made without
any opinion. How this was to be 1 done tiie gen
tlemen had not been pleased to declare ; we on
ly know that no opinions were tobe recommend
ed to the adoption of the House. This was the
dreadful enemy to our independence and free
dom that, was to be avoided with the utmolt cau
tion. He himfelf had hitherto supposed that a
systematic arrangement for ihe execution of a
complicated and intricate fubjed could not lie
made without fuggefiing many opinions. That
he helieved this lingular and as yet inexplicable
scheme of forming systematic a rrangements with
out opinions would be as cut ions as it would be
new in pradice.
He (aid no gentleman could doubt but tliat the
plans of the mini Iter would find their way into
the House, if regularly introduced as they bad
hitherto been ; the officer whoever he might bt,
would be responsible at lead in reputation to
America and to the world, which alone would
form the strongest motives to industry jind integ
rity, in the various plans he (hould recommend.
That it appeared to him that gentlemen who so
ftrennoufly opposed the present motion, would,
if they fliould succeed in their wilhes, destroy
mod of the benefits intended by the iuftitution
of the office of Secretary of the 1 realury, and
wholly screen the officer from every species of
responsibility.
Mr. Goodhue supported the reference—he ge
nerally remarked that in his opinion the mo.t
eligible mode to be adopted for raising the fop
plies on the present occasion would be by way of
loan. He then entered into a confederation o
the various obje<fts which ought to be wihin the
knowledge of every man who pretends to manage
the finances of a country —here lie iaid that he
did not think it any derogation from the c. a
rarter of anv member of the House to fuppoie
that they were less competent to a thorough in
veltigarion of fifcal arrangements than an in' l
vidual who had made the fubjedt the par tit" a
object of his study and attention ; the mischiev
ous consequences of committing these nirange
ments to numbers had been Severely ielt in 0111
of the States—in the the House do»
not however commit its judgment !t ' s ac . '" er ,
ty to approve or rejert-nnd the meafute in fa«
is only taking the belt means to get tie |
information. (To
TUESDAY
Ayes and noes on the motion to amend
solution for a further all jmprion of" r ( ■
debts, by adding ♦' whether difcharyed by
dates reVpedtively fmce ihcpcn or uiidifcM .
ed."
MrflVs
, April 3
vvti, Findley, Gil«-
, Livermore, Marson, Macon, Mercer, Moore, Niles, Parker, Se
ney, Sheredine, J. Smith, Sturges, Venable,
Willis.—22.
Meflrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot, S.
Bourne, B. Bourne, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Gilman,
Goodhue, Gordon, Grove, Hartley, Hillhoufe,
Huger, Kittera, Lavvrance, Learned, Muhlen
burg, Murray, Page, Sedgwick, W. Smith,Steele,
Sylvester, Thatcher, Tucker, Wad(woiih,Ward,
White.—30.
Ayes and noes on the resolution for nfluming
the residue of the (late debts, which had been a
greed to in the committee of the whole — 331025.
MefTrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot,
S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Good
hue, Gordon, Grove, Hartley, Huger, Key, Law
ranee, Learned, Macon, Muhlenburg, Sedgwick,
W. Smith, Steele, Sylvelter, Thatcher, Tucker,
Wadfworth, Ward.—26.
MefTrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown, Clark, Find
ley, Giles, Gilman, Gregg, Heifter, Hillhoule,
Jacobs, Kitchell, Kittera, Lee, Livermore, Ma
ion, Mercer, Moore, Murray, Niles, Page, Parker,
Seney, Sheredine, J. Smith, Sturges, Venable,
White, Willis.— 29.
WEDNESDAY, April 4.
Mr. Muhlenberg presented a memorial from
sundry merchants of Philadelphia, importers of
Ironmongery and Hardware, petitioning againlt
an encieafe in the duties on those articles.
The House resumed the consideration of the
xefolutions reported by the committee of the
whole on the public debt.
The fixih resolution was rejected.
The 7th, Bth and 9th, were agreed to.
A committee was appointed 10 bring in a bill
conformable to the said resolutions.
. Mr. Key laid on the table the following reso
lution :
" That the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
the Treasury, and the Aitorney-General of the
United States, be appointed a board of commif
iioners, with authority to fell any part of the
lands, the property of the United States, not
specially appropriated, lying between the Great
Miami the Wabafli and Ohio rivers."
Mr. Sedgwick moved the following resolution :
" That the committee, to whom are referred
the refoluttons of the House on the fubjetft of the
public debt, be inftrusfted to report a provjfion
for a loan of the remaining debts of the indivi
dual states."
This motion being declared to be out of order,
nn appeal was made from the chair ; but the
House confirmed the decision of the chair, by a
. Jarge majority.
A me flag e from the Senate, was delivered by
Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying that they had palled
{with amendments) the bill for ascertaining the
boundaries of a travft of land purchased by'j, C.
Symmes.
Mr. Firzfimons, of the committee of enquiry,
moved the following resolution :
" That the Prefulent of the United States be
requeued to cause the proper officers to lay be
fore the House such papers of a public nature in
the executive department, as may be necefiary
to the investigation of the causes of the failure
of the late expedition under Major Gen. St.Clair."
The relolution being agreed to, a committee
■was appointed to wait on the Pi efident therewith.
1 he committee having performed this duty, re
ported the President's answer, viz. " That the
order of the Houle should be imniediately com
plied with.
The report of the committee of the whole, on
the petition of Catharine Greene, was taken up,
and agreed to —yeas 29, nays 26.
A meflage from the Senate was delivered by
Mr. Secretary Otis, with a bill which they had
Ptlfed for the relief of persons imprisoned for
< ebt. [By this bill, debtors, confined under the
authority of the United States, are to be on the
e footing, with 1 efpetft to the liberty of the
yard & c . asthofe confined undei (lateauthority.]
J he bill received a firft reading.
Nr. Seney, from the committee 011 the motion
relative to a certain claim of the slate of Mary
land, reported a resolution, which was read a
firft time, directing the proper officer of the
realury to adjult a'id fettle the Paid claim.
In committee of the whole—( Mr. B. Bourne in
t he chnir) —on the bill to indemnify the T rulfees
0 VV ilmi ngton A cade my. The bill was reported
without amendment, and ordered tobeenorofled
lor » third reading.
Mr. Boudinot, from the felecft committee, to
whom was referred << a bill (fe.it from the Se
nate) for regulating procefles in the Courts of
t le Uniied States," reported (everal amendments
to (aid bill, which were read and ordered to be
P r ">"d. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, April 5.
The bill for the relief of the Trustees of Wil
mington Academy, &c. was read the third time
and pafled.
NOES
A Y F. S
NOES
A bill tor there!,.-: of ijerfons confined for
< e t received from tile Semite, was read the se
cond time, and refered to a committee of the
wlioJe.
A bill tor the indemnification of the estate of
the late Greene, reported by Mr.
Livermore, was read the firft time.
The repol tof the Secret..l yof War, on the
petition r lt Col. A. W. White, was read, and tak
-5-! " iro confide, atioli —and a committee appoint
ed t= . -■eport a bill or bills pursuant thereto if
they th,iik proper, confuting of Mefl'rs. Buudi
nor, Moore, and-Sunipier.
in committee of the whole, on the bill to grant
a tr,a O. tratfts of land to the Ohio Company of
llociates—Mr. iuhleiiburgh in the chair. A
•""ion for a., amendment, by striking out the
lafl section which has a blank for the price, in
ordertd introduce a fubflitute, providing that
| he pi ice fliall not be greater than shall be by
i.iw ellnblifhed for other lands in the Western-
Territory, being negatived— the committee rose
and reported the bill with one small amendment
I he House made further amendments—and
then the bill was ordered to be engrofled for a
1 htrd reading.
In committee of the whole on the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury 011 the ways and
means for railing the additional supplies necef
farv for the exigencies of the prefentyear Mr.
B. Bourne in the Chair.
The coniniitte difcufied the report and agreed
to fun dry amendments—they then rose and re
ported progress.
The following tneffage was received from rhe
Prefidenc of the United States by Mr. Secretary
Lear ;
Centhmen of the House of Representatives,
I have maturely considered the a<ft pafled hy
the two Houses, entitled an a<st for an appor
tionment of representatives among the several
states, according to the firft enumeration—and 1
return it to your House, wherein it originated,
with the following objections :
First, The Conltitution has prescribed that re
presentatives shall be apportioned among thefe
veral ftaces, according to their refpetftive num
bers ; and there is no proportion or divisor
which applied to the representative numbers of
the states, will yield the number and allotment
of representatives of the bill.
Second, The Constitution has alio provided
that the number of representatives shall not ex
ceed one for every 30,000, which leftrktion is,
by the context and by fair and - obvious construc
tion, to be applied to the feparateand refpedtive
nuntbers of the state? ; and the bill has allotted
to eight of the states more than one for 30,000.
The tnettage being read, on motion of Mr, W.
Smith, it was voted that the objections be entered
at large or. the Journals of the House, and tiiat
to-morrow be alfigned to take the fame intocon
fideration..
A meftage from the Senate,- by Mr. Secretary
Oris, informed the House that the Senate have
palled a resolution for Congress to adjourn on the
17th instant, and requell the concurrence of the
House.
A report of the Secretary of tbe Treasury, pur
<"fiant to the orders of the House, on the enquiry
whether any antj what additional allowance fhaJJ
be made to the officers of the revenue? was
read—and 100 copies ordered to be printed.
The resolution of the Senate, refpedting the
adjournment, was read, and laid on the table.
In committee of the whole on the bill for fix
ing the compensations of the Doorkeepers of the
two Houses. The committee agreed to fundrv
amendments, which, being repoi ted to the House,
were adopted—and on motion, the bill was read
the third timeand palled. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, April 6.
A bill authorizing the grant and conveyance of certain lands to
the Ohio Company of AfTociates, was read the third time, and
pa fit d.
The bill to indemnify the estate of the late Maj.Gen.Greene,was
read the second time, and referred to the committee of the whole'
A bill supplementary to the ast making piovifion for the debt
of the United States, was read the firft and second time, and made
the order of the day for Tuesday next —too copies to be printed.
The mefTagc of the Preftdent of the United States received yes
terday, was taken into consideration. The Prefidentj'objeftions
to the Representation bill—also the bill and the clause in the con
(titution referring to bills in this fituatton, were federally read by
the Clerk. '
The bill wsi preftnted to the President of the United States the
26th March, and returned the sth April.— The question piopofcd
by the Speaker was in the following words :
Will the House, on reconsideration, agree to paTs the bill ?—
The ayes and noes being called, the question paflfrd in the nega
tive— afes 28, rioes 33. A meflage was sent to inform the Senate
of this decision.
Mr. W. Smith laid on the table the following relolution—That
a committee be appointed to prepaie and bring in a bill provid
ing for the apportioning of representatives by a ratio of 33,000
on the number ol inhabitants in the several states refpeftively, a
greeable to the principles of the conHitution.
Mr. Parker laid on the table a rcfolution, a committee to
be appointed to report a bill on a ratio of one reprt fmtative to
every 30,000 perfonsin the dates rcfpeftively.
Mr. Muhlenburg moved a resolution on this fubjefl, leaving the
ratio blank.
A mclfage from the Senate, informed the House that they have
palled a bill supplementary to the ast providing for the establish
ment and maintenance ot beacons, buoys, and public piers.
Another mefTige from the Senate, informed the House-that they
have agreed to ail the amendments piopofcd by the House to the
395
to'Lhic" g t hey doXt" ° f thC du ° r - kte P t,S - ."aft,
and M ««'
' n " ae lu,U,rr P r "gfcfs in the difcuflion— but
complrating the buf.nei*-And the House adjourned.
Philadelphia, April 7.
By the /hip IVafbington, Captain Davis Jrom Dub
lin, European accounts are received to the 20th
February.
I lie Belgic Provinces are in a state of great
fermentation—and by a notification to M. de la
Graviere, French resident at Bruflels, it appears
that 1 he Governors General of the low countries,
con fid er that these difcontelits are fomented by
certain societies in France. The flame of liberty
is said to rage among the imperial troops. The
Jews resident in Warsaw, capital of Poland, are
to pay annually for 20 years 5 millions florins
in lieu ofaijy import whatever.
Orders are said to be iflued at Vienna for form
ing an army ol jo, 000 men on the frontiers of
the Empire—The Prince of Naflau is to take the
command of the troops againfl France.
7 he emigrant Princes have published a niani
feho in which they fay the Court of Berlin has
declared its intentions to affilt in reltoring the
ancient conflitution of Fiance. The account of
'he burning of Brussels, appears to be premature.
Proclamation is iflued by the French King for
recruiting the army. The police of Peteiiburgh
(capital of Rutha) has forbid any converiu
tion on the fubjec't of the French Revolution.
M. de Biion, known in America by the title of
puke de Laufun is arretted in London and thrown
into a fpunging house for a debt of £416 16.
Spain has not yet made any reparation to the Ell
- merchants for their captures at Nootka
Sound. Spanish troops are in motion towards
the frontiers of France—ln Spain the affaiis of
France are cotifidered as the caufeof religion, of
Kings and of nations. The diet of Ratilb>n as
sembled the 9th January—They have unanimutif-
Jy agreed to an address of thanks to the Empe
ror for the energy of his negociations with
b ranee. 'I he prevalent opinion how ever is that
Leopold feeing the critical ft:Ue of his own do
minions will agree to the demands made by the
National Aff'embly of France.
A cotton mill in the vicinity of Sheffield has
lately been burnt, the loss is eilimated at 45,000k
sterling.— The Pantheon in London was also
burnt in January, it cofl 76,000k Upwards of
25 thousand families it is conjectured have given
up the use of fugarand rum in England, in order
to promote the abolition of the Have trade. A
house in Geneva has failed for near a million
sterling—it is said they had loaned large sums
to the emigrant Princes. General O'Haia is
appointed kieurenatit Governor of Gibraltar, in
the room of Sir Henry Calder, deceased.
The Duke de Richelieu, is gone to Peterf
burgh, 10 negociate in favor of the Princes.
The following were the prices of American
flock in London, the beginning of January :—
6 per cents, 23f. 3 per cents, lif Deferred, 14^
Died in London the 7th February, Sir John
Eardley Wilmot, late Lord Chief Jultice of the
Court of Common Pleas.
M. de Seguir, of the late Parliament of Paris,
is dead ; so is M. de Cice, the late Biihop of Bor
deaux.
The Statue of Dr. Fr ankli n, intended to ornament the prin
cipal front of the new Library Hall in Fifth dreet, is arrived from
Italy, via New-York.
This elegant piece of fculuture is executed in Uie fineft white
iiarble, and is the donation of William Bingham, tfq. of this
cty, tothe Library Company.
A bill has been read in the House of Reprefcntatives of this
State, to appropriate / .300 for the use of the Indians now
in this city. A bill authorising the State Treasurer to fubferibe,
in the name of this Commonwealth, to the loan propoled by tho
United States, has passed both Houses.
The House of Representatives of the State of New-York, have
agreed, in committee of the whole, *to appropriate the sum of
Jixteen thoujandpounds for building bridges, repairing roads. &c.
Petitions are coming in to Congress from the Merchants, in va
rious places, again ft an encreafe in the Duties of Iropoft.
Some Jetteis from Ireland, of a late date, fay, that gieat appre*
henfions are there entertained of a commotion, in c'onfequence of
the meafnres pursuing by the Catholics to obtain redress of their
; grievances.
Lieutenant Turner, who was captured by the Indians in the
late engagement under Gen. St. Clair, is, we hear, arrived ia
town. Being closely purlued in the engagement by two Indians,
and feeing death inevitable it he attempted further to fly or to re
fill, he turned about and offered his hand. The Indians not only
spared his life, but prottftcd it from the vwdiftive madness of
their companions. After the engagement, they thought of con
veying him to the scene where the savages were revelling over
their spoils; but firft, one of them took the precaution of paying
a visit to the camp to the victors, and feeing them much intoxi
cated, took him to the tents of their particular tribe. Thence he
was lent to Detroit, where a private Englilh Gentleman paid his
ransom, released him, and took his note for the amount.
SHIP NEIVS.
AR-RII'ALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Barque Neptune, Earl, East-Indies,
ShipAftire, Blair, St.Andero,
Brig Kmv, Mooir,
Schooner Harriot, Smith, N. Carolina,
Two Friends, Baker, Georgia,
Sloop Alexander, Monroe, Viign.td,
'rice of Stocks as in our lajt
SC7*Bank of the United States.
March 21, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby art, au
thonfed to compleat theft Shares by payment at any time
before the periods required bv the law ot incoi poi ation.
Resolved, That each Share so compleated, (ball be entitled to
<draw a dividend ot the profi s of the HanK, from and after the firfl
day of the month next futceeding the day of compleating such
Shares.
Resolved, That so much 1 of the quarter's intereftupon the Pub
lic Debt transferred to crtmpleat any Share as aforefaid, as (hall
have accrued before the firft day ot the month next succeeding the
completion of such Share, (hall be received by the Bank, and paid
to the persons who (hall have transferred the fame.
By o*der of the Prcfident and Dire&ors,
(cptiftj) JOHN KEAN, Cajhier.
At a meeting of the Directors of the Bank of
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices ot Difcoum and Dcpofit be
autborifed to receive ot Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock of the Bank, and
that the Caftiieis of the said offices give duplicate receipts for such
payments, one of which receipts, accompanied with evidence of a
traiufer of public debt fufficicM to complete said lharcs, upon be
ing produced at the Bank, shall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for full (hares, and to all the benefits of the Resolutions
0/ the Board of Directors parted the 21 ft instant, relative to com
pleting fharcs by payment at any time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the President and Directors.
JOHN KEAN, Ca/hier.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,!
March 31, 1 792. J
NOTICE is hereby given, That the interest for the quarter,
ertdihg this day,on the FUNDEI) DEBT otthe United States,
{landing on the books of the Treasury, and of the Commiflioher ol
Loans tot this State, will be paid at the Bank of the United States.
fcp.ti)
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
State-Street, BOSTON,
BUY and fell eVery kind of the Stocks of the United States, on
Commiflion, by Private Contratt, and Publtc Au&ion.—
Those gentlemen who may be pleaied to favor them -with their
commands, may rely on fidelityj secrecy and dispatch.
Bojlov, March, 1792. (1 a worn)
Public Securities,
BbdcHT and Sold, on C O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
CHeTnut-Street,ntikt doortothe'Bink, No. 97.
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
T E A S,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE,&SPICES^&c.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street, bet ween Chefnut andMarketStreets
STOLEN,
WITHIN a few days last pad, from the Subfcriher, the fol
lowing NOTES, issued by ihe Tr'eJifurer of the Common
wealth of Maffachufctu : No. 18721, Dec. i, 1783,/". 7a 15,
payable to Phtnsas Lyman ; No. 18379, Nov. 1, 36 4,
payable to William Lyon ; No. 1301, Dec. 1, g,
payableto Nathaniel Wright ; No. "16239. Aug. 1, 1783,
£.28 16—No. 71, oa. 1, 1781, £. 48 1, payable to Doctor
Samu z l TVar e. ■
Whoever will apprehend and fccure the Thief or Thieves, so
that he or they may be brought to justice, fhai] receive a reward
of Ivventy Doliars; and whoever will produce the above
Notes, and return them to the fubferiber, (hall receive a reward
of One Hundred Dol l ar s, and all neceflary charges.
Precaution having been taken to prevent their ever being paid
to the Thief or Thieves by the Treasurer abovementioned : All
J>erfons therefore are cautioned not to purchase the above Notts,
of any one offering them tor falc,
Northampton, Feb. 29, 1792/
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
Of 8 LOT ill this City, to be designated by impartial
and FIVE HUNDREb DOLLARS; or a MEDAL of That
▼alue, at the option of the party ; will be given by the Commis
sioners of the Federal Buildings, to th* person who, before the
fifteenth day of July, 1792, shall produce to thcrti the most ap
proved PLAN.it adopted by them, for a CAPITOL, tobe erected
in this City ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to ihe one they
shall adopt The building to be of biick, and to coutain the ipl
lowing apartments, to wit:
A Conference Room ) fufficient to ac-"]
A Room for iHe Reprcfentatives ( Cotnmot ' atr 3 00 I these rooms
) persons each. I to be of
A Lobby or Antichamber to the latter f f u ]| <.] eva .
A Senjte Room of 1200 square feet area I ti on .
An Antichamber or Lobby to the last J
12 Rooms of 600 square feet area each, for Committee Rooms and
Clerks Offices, to be ot half the elevation of the former
Drawings w.ll be expected of the ground plats, elections of
each front, and fefttons through the building in such direaions
as may be nccefiai y to expld.n the internal fVuflure; and anelli
of'the wSils ° bnck_work c °n>pof.ng the whole mass
March 14, 1792
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
Vy value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com
«T2 ' f , , Bu ' ldin S 5 ><° perron who,before the
fifteenth day of July next (hail produce ,o them the m „ft ap
proved PL AN , it adopted bvthem,fora PRESIDENT'S HDIISV
to be erefled in ihi. City. The fre of lhe b u,i° nJTf "S
will ..tend to willl of course influence the afpet/and outline o
his plar,; and deft,nation w.ll point out lo P him ,„ e nu|n £™
size, and distribution of the apartments. It will be a recnmmcn-
Jat.on of any plan ,f the centra! part of It may be detached and
rrcfted for the present, w„h .he appearance of a complcle wholc
and be capable of admming the addition,, in f( P jf ( J'
shall be wanting Drawings will be expefled of ,he ground pl„ s
elevations of each front,and fcflion. .hrough .he building, in fu h
direa.on.as may be necessary to explain the internal ft r ,ft ure
3rd an cftima.e of the cubic feet of brick-work compofin. he
"whole mals of the walls. " °
March 14, 179*?
'/ THE COMMISSIONERS,
jt NATH. WRIGHT.
THE COMMISSIONERS.
jJUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON, Boakfetler,
At the Stone House in Second-Street,
The Fir ft Volume of
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS-.
Confiding of state papers, and other authentic documents,
intended as materials.for an Hiitory of the United States
of America,
BY EBENEZER HAZARD, a. M
Member of the American Philosophical Society, held at Philadel
phia for promoting ufeful knowledge; and Fellow of the Ame
rican Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The design of this compilation being to preserve and exhibit a
regular fcrits of the mod important and authentic documents re
lating to the history ot America, from its discovery by Columbus
to the present time, it muftbe pcculiary interesting to all who wish
to acquire a thorough knowledge ot this fubjeft.
dpril 4.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(price 6/6.)
By M A T Jrl E W CAREY,
No. n&, Market-Street, near Fourth-Street,
The Ladies' Library;
1. Miss Morc'*Eflays
2. Gregory's Legacy
3. Lady Pennington's Advice
4. Marchtonefs of Lambert's
Advice 7. More's Fables for the Ladies
editor of this publication hopes, from the established re-
X pucation of the several tra&s of which it is composed, that
it will be found a more complete system for the inftru£lion of the
female world, than perhaps any other extant.
A volume, under the present title, was lately published in Eng
land and Ireland, and had a molt rapid'fale, having been puichafed
by almost every lady of taste in those kingdoms. To this volume
the editor has added Miss More's £ flays—Mrs. Chapone's letters
on the government of the temper —and Swift's letter to a young
lady newly married. These have confideiably enhanced its value,
and he doubts not, the ladies on this fide of the Atlantic will be as
generous in their encouragement of a work intended for their ad
vantage as those in England and Ireland have been.
%* SETS OF THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
AS several gentlemen in different parts of the United States, have
been heretofore difappoinled in then applications for complete Jets oj the
American Museum, printer informs the public, that he is en
gaged in reprinting the deficient numbers of the work, and has now and
will henceforward have a conffant supply of sets an hand]—fuch gentle
men, therefore, as please, may be Jurnifhed with sets neatly bound, in ten
volumes, at sixteen dollars.
This work will be found to contain at leafl as great a variety of poli
tical, agricultural, and mijcellaneous ejfays, as any ever pubhfhed in
America.
Slid Carey has lattly publifltcd y
1. Beauties of Poetry, British and American, 6".
2. Bcattie's Elements of Moral Science, 7J.
3. M'Fingal, an epic poem, 2f§} ? i
4. Blair's Sermons, complete in 2 vols. 15s.
5. Mocker's Treatise on Religious Opinions, 6s.
6. Examination of Sheffield's Observations, 4/8
7. American Constitutions, 4/8
8. Dowav Bible—neat, 6 dolls.—elegant, 50/2
o. Vade Mecum, i/»o£
10. Charles Grandifon, abridged.
11. Humphrey's Poems, bound 2/S, in blue paper 1/10J
12. American Jell Book, in two parts, bound, 4[S
13. Scle£t Poems, 1/3
14. Think well 011't, i/ip 4
15. TheChrift ian Econohhy, i/io£
OJfaii Carey may he Red, Bii.'n, Ttjlaments, Spelling-Hooks,
Primers, Quills, I>:b-Pou*d-r,U riting-Paper of various kinds, Bonnet-
Paper, Pocket.Books. Scutes and Dividers, Ink-Stands, Uetfaee and
Playing Car ds. &c.£3c. — *
To be SOLD peremptorily, ai Public Vekdpe,on Wcdnefdav
the nth day of April next^
THE SEAT of the late Dodtor Leivij Johtiftiti,
deceased, in Perth-Ambby, containing TWO HUNbRED
ACRES of LAND.
This place is bounded southerly for near a mile on the river
Raritan, w here it empties into the bav about 18 miles Irom Sandy-
Hook, and affords two mod agreeable situations for Gentlemens'
Seats. There are now on it, two brick houses, with gardens, and
a good colleftifm of fruit trees of the best kinds. The land is very
fertile, and a great part of it very good meadow ; and from its situ
ation on the river, has t,he advantage of fifli of different kinds, in
their seasons, particularly of oyftcrs and chicken clams, which may
be picked in great plenty on the fhts before the doors. It is a
delightful, healthy Situation, capable of genteel and tally improve
ments; and as Perth-Amboy is one of the best sea-ports in the
States, and within 18 miles of the fca, the prolpeft ot its
increasing in value from that circumstance, is by no means incon
fidcrable.
There will alio be told, other Lots, within the bounds of the
city, and about Five Hundred Acres of Land on the oppofile fide
■of the river Raritan—part of which is improved by a farm on
. which there is a framed d welling-houfe and barn, with an orchard
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about one hundred and
fifty acres ; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, well
wooded and timbered, and very convenient for supplying 'New-
York and other markets with fire-wood, timber for ship build
ing, and other uses, the transportation by water being easy and
hfe- The conditions will be made known at the day of sale
aud the lequifite conveyances made by '
JAMES PARKER and) _ .
BOWES REED, \ Trultees tothe said Estate.
LUewife to be SOLD, at the Jame time and blace,
ELEVEN ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
perty of the Proprietors of Ealt New- Jersey, wheieon the pro
prietary house lately flood. The elegant situation of this spot is
hardly to be equalled ; it affords a grand profpeft of Raritan
Bay, and of ihe Bay formed by the waters of Raritan and Hud
son's rivers, where ihey disembogue into the sea to the tad—and
a moftdel.ghtf.il one of the serpentine courleof the Raritanrivcr
for several miles, through a rich tract of meadow to the Weft'
The great quantity of (lone neatly dressed, and brick, the remains
of the hou(e lately burned, will be nearly Efficient for a new
biwlding; and a large stone cistern, and well of excellent water
with a very convenient stable and coach-house, will greatly lessen
the expence of putting the place in order for the residence of a
gentleman.—There are tew situations so eligible, particularlv in
the Tummcr season-when the cool sea breezes, and thr elevated
situations, render them places of pleaf.ng retreat, from the confine
ment and fu try air of the fouihern states and neighbouring cities.
reUh-Amboy, Feb. 15, 1792. (ep6w)
A INFORMATION.
NEGRO MAN by the name of CATO VERNON, horn
m , ~ nr N ß r r! hndf f fl '" d ) rnlifte<! Col. Greene-. Regi
f V f' r *'?j■ t ' le ' ar - He survived the War, and
li w " PP l n " r Philadelphia. If he will apply
, l"° r , h " tof < he Wlll bc '"formed of fomerhmg confide
tably to his advantage. Ap „; 8 (ep
396
CONTAINING,
5. Swift's letter to a new mar
ried Lady
6. Miss Cha pone on command
of Temper
D'ifmal Swamp C;wal Company.
D ROPOSALS s OT cutting a Canal from the waters of£| )llb «k
f vcr ln V,r S'" la ! to tHose of Pafquotaok in North-Carolina
or for conducing the work, „ iU be received until the nm.hday
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of WiUiamfburg; Thorn,,
Newton, jur, and Daniel Bed,nger, of Norfolk, in vfrginia" h,
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Bemaom lone, of Cam
clen County, in North-Carolina. The lengfh of the wUI £
ab»ut sixteen mtlas ; the country through which it will'Ws i,
swampy, Iree from stones, and covered with heavy wood The
rf«th h!° , r , V tW °/T in width - ,nd ci S ht '«< « least ib
depth, below the furface of the earth, and capable of being navi
gated in dry leafons, by vessels diawing three leet water
Good fee,in,v will be required ot comraflo.s; and persons
making application to be employed as managers, must produce
(cD.\m)
Ntrfolk, January 21,1792,
BLOOMSBURY,
T'nAT elegant SEAT at the Fails oi D iaware, in the vicinity
u fu, l " ,ton » ,n New-Jtrfey, occupied tor m,my years palt by
the fubfenber ; containing upwards of (too acres ot land, bei.Jts
a tract of wood-land of a.->out 185 acres, at the diftan:e ot two
miles, i tie farm is divided by the main itreet leading from
11 encon to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two pans,'nearlv
equal in quantity.; the eaftwardly pan being arable land, is ia,d
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The oiher
part, bounded by the said street on the east, and by the river cm
tle weft, forms a.square; which, from the combined effe& of fiuu
anon and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of ihe moll
beautiful and deferable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-finLftied brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms 011 each floor, with exccl'cnt cellais, and <1 two llory Drick
Kitchen ; and commanding j ve **y extensive and pleasing view of
tne river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, aod
alio of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new ftons
coach-house and flables, fuflicient to contain fix carriages and ten
Horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining theft is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a stone cow-hou'e, upwards of 100 feet in lengthy
containing thirty-one paved stalls, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, See. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, lsagar
den of about two acres, extending towards th« river, in the higlieft
slate of eulture, and abounding with a rich colle&ion ot the
choicefl fruits of almost every kind, and fevcral large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the roan-'
fion-houfe, and nearly in the centre of the (quart, is a new, well
built, itone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheefc-ioom,
spring-house, garden, &c. a complete flone smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
ceflary out-building. The ground is properly divided into small
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chieflv und r the
most approved grass. This square has produced annual!), for fc
veral years pad, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay, bcfidcs
supporting through the fumraer season twenty to thirty horned
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper fealous,
with great plenty of all kinds of fifh usually found in frefh watet
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both of whicn
may aflord a pleasing amusement to the sportsman, as well 3s a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his tabic. The
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is indofed and dividqi
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar pofls.
and rails of ch- fnut and white cedar. The purchaser may have
the improved square separately, or the whole together, as may
befl suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good build
ing flone on the river shore. The puichafe money, if well secured,
and the intercft punctually paid, will not be fieniandtd foi maayr
years.
Any pet Ton desirous of viewing the piemifes, may be gratifi <1
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. of Tienton,
or Mr. Inallman, who at present occupies the larm-houle and
part of the land—and may know the price on application to the
übfcriber, at No. 213, South Second-itreet, opposite to the New
darket, in Philadelphia. JOHN COX
Philadelphia, March 7, 1792
A LOTTERY,
r T" , O raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing the
X Protestant F.pifcopdl Church in the city of Nt w-iiruufwck,
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature of the State of New-Jcrfey,
patted November 1791
1
1
6
10
3°
9°
1675
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks,
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
PT This Lottery is composed Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a dedudbon of twelve ana ar. haj fe r
cent, which is more favorable to adveniurers than any Lottery vet
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that Jt
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the mo
liberal support.
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in Apn ,
or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of 1 ew-
Brunfwick, under the infpe&ion of Col. John Bayard, Pre 1 ent
of said city ; Tames Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Amboy;
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Manufactur
ing Society of New-Jeriey.
Tickets to be had of the following persons, who arc duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given fccunt)
laithful performance of their duty. , , . .
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be publilneo, an
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
'JOHN PARKER, )
PETER kEEN T ON, > Managers.
AMI HO NY W. WHITE, )
N. R. Those 01 izes which are not demanded within f;x moil
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be considered as a gencro
donation to the Church. f ,
Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance 01 m
than 3 per cent, per month for their monev. 1° ? ccon>t^ 0
all those who may be disposed to purchale Tickets, c *' ers r
ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Post-Master, at * ew
wick, and enclosing good bills will be attended to an
forwarded on re< eipt of such letters
Ncru-Bruvfutick, January 90, 1792
Blank Power Ito re, five («<lnrirtlt.«<>lW'"' >J' r V''*
principal ofpublic debt y agreeable tothe Rules ejla '
fury Department: Also BlanksJ t>rabjlracti eJCcrtijicatci, -J°
the Editir.
By aider of the Prcfident and Directors,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Clfi*.
F O It S A L E,
M E.
SC H E
Dollars is 2000
Prize of
2009
J 000
5 00
200
100
5°
20
4
( f P'9*)
(rpll)
1000
JCOO
iVfp
1000
Js*>
lilao
67Q0
16040
[rp3 m l