ofHj As>f
• *> v -. *" *
I > A NATWNAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET
ftjo. 2,
•»
o. 2, of Vol. IV.]
WHEREAS it appears, by the proceeding in
a certain cause now depending in th-" High
Court of Chancery in England, wherein William
Webb is the plaintiff, and John Porker (the exe
cutor of Thomas Bradley, dcceafedj is the defen
dant—that Henry Webb was put out apprentice
by the Greenwich School, for the sea service, in Qr
about the year 17 75, and who was then of the age
of 14 years, or thereabouts, and failed from Eng
land in the year 1776, to some part of North-
America, in the ship or veflel railed the ArtemifTa.
Captain Llewellyn, formerly a Spanish Trader, and
at that time a Navy Vi&uallcr or Transport, in
his Majesty's fcrvice. And whereas it appear?
that the said Henry Webb defertcd and run awav
from the said ship or veflel, and entered on board
a certain privateer or veflel, called the Revenue,
or Vengeance Privateer, of which one John Dean
was then matter or commander, then lying in
New-York, in North-America ; and that the said
Vengeance Privateer, on o* about the $<h of No
vember, i779> failed from New-York aforefaid to
Savannah, and arrived at such last mentioned place
in or about the month of March, 1 780, and failed
from thence in the said month of March, or in the
month of April following, to some portor place in
America, but to wh3t port or place is not known ;
and that in the Month of Mav, 1780, the said fliip
or veflel was seen at Barbadoes, in the Weft-In
die.*, but the said Henry Webb hath not since been i
heard of, and is supposed to be dead, it having
been reported that the Tender belonging to the
said ship or veflel called the Vengeance, which
ship was then commanded by Captain Knowles,
with a number of her men, to the amount of 20,
or thereabout (and among whom the said Henry
Webb is supposed to be one) were taken bv the
enemy, and carried into Philadelphia.
NOW, in pursuance of an order made in the
said caufc, bearing date the 3d day of December.
1790, any person or p.erfons who can give anv ac
count or information touching the fai-d Henry
Webb, or of the said ship Vengeance, or whether
the said Henry Webb is living or dead, and if
dead, when and where he died, are required to
give such account or information to William
Weli.fr Pepy s, Esq. one of the Matters of she
frid Court, at his Chambers, in Svmonds-Inn.
London, on or before the 6th day
of November, 1792 —and such person or persons
w ill be rewarded for their trouble by applying to
Mr. SamtJf. l Nay lor, the follicitor in the cause,
at No. 4, Great Newport.Street, London; or to
the Rqv. John Stamford, No. 46, William-
Street, New-York; or to John Pr f. tt y jorfN,
Esq. Bridge-Town, Rarbadoes.
(gwiaw)
THE following fotfions of the act entitled.
u An ast for raising a further sum of money
*or the protection of the frontiers, and for
other purposes therein mentioned, are repub
liflied for the information of all persons, whp,
on the 29th day of June next (1792) shall be
pofTefled of
WINES.
" Sect. id. A ND be it farther enadted, That
■11. all Wines which after the said
last dav of June next, shall be imported into the
United States, shall be landed under the care of
the infpeCW of the port where the fame shall be
Jancled, and for that pur pole, every permit for
landing any Wines, which shall be granted by a
Collector, shall, prior to such landing, be pro
duced to the said infpe&or, who, by endorsement
thereupon under his hand, shall fignify the pro
duction thereof to him, and the time when, af
ter which, and not otherwise, on pain of forfei
ture, it shall be lawful to land the said Wines.
And the said infpe&or shall make an entry of
all such permits, and of the contents thereof, and
each pipe, butt, hogshead, cask, cafe, box or
package whatsoever, containing such Wines,
fnall be marked by the officer under whose im
mediate infpe&lon the fame shall be landed, in
legible and durable characters, with progreflive
number?, the name of the said officer, and the
quality or kind of Wine as herein before enu
merated and distinguished. And the said officer
shall grant a certificate for each such pipe,btitt,
hogshead, cask, cafe, box or package, fpecifving
therein the name or names of the importer or
importers, the ship or vessel in which the fame
shall have been imported, and the number there
of, to accompany the fame wheresoever it fhali
be sent. And if any pipe, butt, hogshead, cask,
cafe, box or package, containing Wine, shall be
found without such marks and certificates, the
fame fnall be liable to be seized, and the want of
such marks and certificates shall be presumptive
evidence, that such Wine was unlawfully im
ported and landed.'*
" Sect. 11. And be it further enacted, That
every person, who shall have in his or her pos
session, Wides which are intended for sale, in
quantity exceeding one hundred and fifty gal
lons, shall /trior to tho said last day of June next,
make entry thereof in writing at lorae office of
infpe<sHor> in the city, town or countv where lie
or fee (hall reside, fpecifying and describing the
casks, cases, boxes and other packages contain
ing the fafne, and the kinds, qualities and quan
tities thereof, and where,and in whose pofleifion
they are ; and the officer of infpetiian, at whose
office such entry may be made, ihall, as soon as
may be thereafter, visit and inlpeft, or cause to
be visited and infpefted, the Wines so reported,
and Ihf ll mark, or cause to he marked, the caflcs,
cases, boxes ar.d packages containing the fame,
with progreflive numbers, with the name of the
person to whom the fame may belong, the kind
or kinds thereof, and words " Old Stock," and
flwll grant a certificate for each calk, box
or package containing such Wine, describing
therein the said cask, cafe-, box or package, and
the Wines therein contained, which certificate
fliall accompany the fame, wherever it may be
sent. And if any person who may have Wines
in his or her poiTeflion for sale, (hall not, prior to
the said last day of June next, make entry there
of, as above directed, he or (he, for such omifiion
or neglect, fliall forfeit and pay the value of the
Wine omitted to be entered, to be recovered
with costs of suit, for the benefit of any person
who shall give information thereof, and the
Wines so omitted to be entered, ftiall be for
feited." (ept29)
Wm. CLE LAND,
BOSTON,
Tranfa&s bufincfs in the Funds of the United
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &c.
(£3p Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality,
June 1
FROM THF MARYLAND HERALD.
THO', Crlla, 'he clouds of adversity frown
And deaden the spirit that leads us to fame—
Tho' realon may prompt us the plan to difovvn
And despair be at hand to extinguish the flame—
Yot nature persists; and attach'd to her views,
Sliedifdaim to forego what has charmVi her so
;
Where theobj<£l forbids, she the image purfucs,
And Hope flill attends to conduct us along.
Thus pleas'd by those beauties which taught me to
fi K h '
And enamour'd of smiles that affected my heart;
'Twas in vain that refle&ion her strength wou'd
apply,
Tho' Celia, with coldness, had bade me depart :
Tho' her frowns fhou'd command all my sorrows
to flow
And my plcafurcs be cnang'd into anguish and
cares;
Still fancy will raise the dark curtains of woe,
And faithlefsly brighten the source of my tears.
Yet tell me, my fair, is thv nature at eafc,
When thy smiles have deserted their charming
domain—
When pity forfdk.es thee and scorns to appease
Thv honed AmVnior,ah ! pleading in vain ?
Then finifh thy triumph and banish its pride
And all the allurements that vanity charm :
Advise with thine heart to that heart are allied
A goodness to sooth it—a friendfhip to warm.
That goodness will learn thee to feel for my woes»
And heal ihe fad pains which imbitter my reft :
And fjiendlhip. more kindly imprefs'd with my
vows,
W. W. PEPYS,
Will cherish a pafTion so frankly confeft :
Theft goodness and fnendihip uniting in ieal.
And kindling the bosom by which they are
own'd,
Thy heart will fubduc and its foftnefs reveal;
And thus (hall my love with its wishes be
ci own'd.
Then Hor ?. must remain—'tiscemented withlovc—
And still shall that pafiion its triutaph maintain :
I fwcar from my breast it can never remove,
While goodness and friendlhip shall rivet the
chain.
And /lefpair now rejc&ed shall loofm its thorn ;
N T or e'er can my quiet its tortures annoy,
While beams of compoflion thines eyes cast adorn?
Or while thy sweet bosom can heave with a sigh-
May nature and art then aflift me to please
And gain for my bosom the raptures of love !
Mav Venus inflruft me some moment to fcize
When I find with my Celia the heart of her dove J
To be blefs'd, is to bless, to be happy, be kind,
To love—is to feel for such sorrows as mine :
Be kind, then, be happy, let love be combined —
And the morn of my bliss shall apprize thee of
thine. AMYNTOR.
Tor the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
Having lately had a conversation with a friend,
who has travelled in Europe, and made a great
many observations on men and governments,
1 have thought his sentiments, on the present
temper of American parties, proper to be
known. I have endeavoured to express the
substance of them in the following remarks.
FACTIONS are almost harmless in England—
and as our language is the fame, and our
form of government nearly similar, we are apt
to conclude that faction-, will be harmless alfoin
thi-, country. A great many persons seem to
like the budle of wrangling parties, ami the
Printers think their Gazettes insipid, and in
danger of losing cuftoni, if they refufe to mix a
portion of gall with their ink. They sometimes
want fprightlinSfs, they are often barren of in
formation—but their readers do not fay that
they are too milky. Accordingly we fee the
government bespattered, and the heads of de
partments, and members of Congress, blacken
ed; and ail the arts of infmuation and decep
tion put in praiftice, to make the people as an
gry as the writers seem to be.
We are told that the measures of government
have done but little good, and that littte was
Wednesday, June 6, 1792.
States;
{epxm & \awwri)
HOPE
5
not intended—that, however, they have done
infinite mifchief, which was intended, and is a
part oi a plan of iniquity contrived by those
who administer the offices of the government.
This evil, they tell us, is ft til spreading, and
will be fatal to the property, rights and liberty
of the many, in order by their plunder to ag
grandize the few. That all these consequences
are the more to be dreaded, and are the more
certain, as the country is too extensive to be
subject to one free government, and the consti
tution has not made a proper definition and a
clue separation of its powers. Let any man
read the newspapers which have been publiflied
for some time past, and judge what consequen
ces the writers must intend to have drawn from
their premises, and what is the tendency of the
opinions they propagate so industriously. Doubt
less these writers wife to persuade the people
that what they tell them is true—and if the
people can be brought fully to believe them—if
they can fee the government and its officers in
as odious a light as they are exhibited, the event
is inevitable. The people having all power in
their hands, will certainly use it to destroy a
government that will destroy them., and which
they are told has already made great progress
the work.
Inflammatory addrefles to the passions of men
have a tendency to create disturbances and con
vulsions in all countries—but they are peculiar
ly alarming in our country from the nature of
our government, and the temper of our citizens.
In England, we fee, the most threatening ap
pearances have not been followed by civil war,
although from time to time it has been gene
rally thought inevitable : but England is an
island ; the sea like a band prefTes the State to
gether and keeps it from breaking to pieces ;
foreign enemies, stronger than itfelf are feared
fufficiently to keep the sense of national union
always strong. A King at the head of the force
of the nation, and to whom all men of property
cling with a confcieufnefs that all property will
jbe set afloat with the government, is able to
crufti the lirft riling against the laws. There
is no legislative aflembly, subordinate to the
Parliament analogousto our State governments,
to collect the discontented together and to ena
ble them to wield the lawful authority of a
diftrift against the whole of the nation.
More than all, habit has moulded them into one
indivisible nation, and has given a fan&ity to
the laws and constitution which no party man
can invade without shocking all his adherents.
Prosperous as our country is, and free and
enlightened as our citizens are beyond the reft
of mankind, we are so newly moulded together,
we have so little to fear from other nations,
and the sources ofdifcontent and division are so
fruitful and various, that the love of good or
der cannot be too fedulouflv cultivated—The
government being the work of the people them
ielves, and being their only security for the
preservation of liberty, (hould be viewed with
aflfeftion and supported with vigilance and care.
It (liould be well watched, it is true, and if bad
men gain an election, the only and proper re
formation is to chufe better men in their pla
ces. But let the friends of the union—let those
who abhor civil ftrife look to it, left while they
are unmindful of the turbulent and deftrut'tive
deligns of the enemies of the constitution, a few
million of the uncontradicted falfehoods which
are spread about (hould have poisoned the minds
of the people—like the eggs of the infe<st tribe
they are deposited in every lurking place, to
remain inactive till the firft season of ferment
ation shall hatch a venomous and loathlbme
race to canker and devour the fair fruits of
which we already fee the blodbms.
Our government is too new, and too feeble,
and its powers too much divided with the State
governments to bear the convulsions of vindic
tive factions. Perhaps there is no class of men
who are more interested in the preservation of
the present constitution than the Printers—
their business has grown and is growing furpri
iinglv ; yet although full of federalifm, zeal and
intelligence, it is painful to fee that they seem
generally disposed to prefer the publication of
such pieces as are unfriendly to the national au
thority. What is this owing to ? Surely not to
the desire of prostrating the government. Ge
nerally fpealcing, they are principled against the
fchetties of those who are laboring to fu'overt the
union : for the fiiccefsful progress of their art
depends on a free, firm government, and inter
nal tranquility,more perhaps than any other bu
siness whatever : The cause is to be fought ii)
another quarter; the blame of men and mea
fijrcs fells better than praise ; and, as a news
paper is supported by curiofity,it maybe doubt
ed whether the exclusion of such incendiary pub
lications would not injure the circulation of the
newspaper. Accordmgly, we fee that in every
country the nexufpapers are almost er.clufivelv
in the hands of those who complain of the ad
ministration. Let the priuters go on and pub
lifti—let the public hear all that the most angrv
man has to fay : But let the printers observe
that they ought to publilh the other fide of the
question also ; that they ought to let the answer
follow the charge, and that they are not bound
as good citizens to publilh and repubtifli the
falfeft and fouleft flanders of the principles of
the constitution, and of the men who exercise
its powers.
PHILADELPHIA
[Whole No. 524.]
FROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
REFLECTION'S on the STATE of the ITNIOS,
Concerning the manufafturei of the United States.
IN purfuingthe confiderationof American ma
nufactures as beneficial and neceilary to the
southern states, it will be ufeful to take a curl'o
ry view of the indications of attachment and
disposition to them, which are discoverable in
that quarter.
Virginia appears to be making a greaterprtf
grrft in merchant mills than any state in the
union, though some are yet far before her in
those beneficial works. Maryland and Delaware
which are in the southern moiety, are second
only to Pennsylvania in this branch. There is
little doubt that more pig and tar iron is made
to the southward of Pennsylvania, than to the
northward of it. A lead mine has been opened
in Virginia, whica is extending its supplies
through the union, and promises fair to be coirt
menl'urate with the present demand : and there
is one, which is now worked, in the territory
south of the Ohio. But no lead mines are in
considerable operationinthe ftatesnorth or eatt
of Virginia, though a fnr.ill beginniag upon one
in the western part? of Pennsylvania is made.
An alTociation in Virginia, another in the ter
ritory south of the Ohio, and a company in the
western distriCt of South-Carolina, have [provid
ed themselves v.-ith carding and spinning ma
chinery on the British plan, to manufacture
their native cotton. The planters in the south
ern states raise quantities of this raw material,
unthought of before the war, and until the dif
cuflions of the (übjeCt of manufactures, which
took place after tiie treaty of peace. The fa
mily manufactures in cotton are much greater in
the four fouthemmoft states, than in the four
eastern states. There are not wanting consi
derable numbers of Jheep in the five southern
states, yet by the two returns ofexports, it ap
pears that no meo/has been sent from thence to fo
reign markets. It has been couimoa to receive,
wool in Pennsylvania from the eastern states,
though they manufacture so much, but it is not
known that any is ever received there for sale
from the foutliern states, Wool has been trans
ported to Salem in North-Carolina,and to Wui
chefter in Virginia, from the city of Philadel
phia, for the hat manufactory.
There has been full as great a current ofe
migration of flour mi/lcrs, black-smiths, timers, hat
ters, cabinet-makers, dijlillers, coopers, &c. to the
southern States from those north of them, in
proportion to numbers as of farmers; so that
the worklhops of the middle and northern states
yield a double benefit to their fellow-citizens in
the south, in supplying them with manufactures,
and artizans,
There is greater variety in distillation in ths
four southern states than in the four eaflerr—
that is, the manufactory is ejlablifhed on a bioader ba
ft. It is also more certain in the south than in
the north. In the latter, molasses is the prin
cipal ingredient, and being from an external
source, may be loft to the eastern distillers.
Their manufactory is even now at hazard, un
less they resort to the grain of the country to the
southward of them. But in the southern states
they manufacture spirits from molalTes, peach
es, apples, several kinds of grain, and probably
will, as their country is cleared, extend it to
the grape. This has been tried with success in
the experimental way, at Galliopolis, near the
Scioto,
The legislature of North-Carolina made a
loan of money since the late war, to aflift the
introduction of the paper manufactory.
An affbeiation, containing forty of the most
respeCtable planters arid farmers, in the western
, diftriiSt of South-Carolina, has been eftabliihed
within a few years for the promotion of manu
factures, and agriculture. A fubfeription to
the amount of about 25,000 dollars has been
made in the territory south of the Ohio, for the
purpose of carrying on the cotton manufactory.
An indication of zeal not equalled in any mid
dle err northern state, corifid?ring that the whole
population of the government is 3 3, 000 whites,
and j,ooo blacks.
The preparation of tar, pitch, turpentine,
spirits of turpentine, and rosin, in North-Caro
lina and its vicinity, may bedeeiried a manufac
ture as justly as the making of linseed oil, pot
ash, or ordinary tanning. A very small quanti
ty indeed, of these articles, will be made in the
dates north of Virginia, because nature forbids;
but they will, from obvious reasons, increase in
the south.
During the existence of the state impdft laws,
twoof the foQthern states (Maryland and Vir
ginia) imposed extra tonnage, not only upon fo
reign (hips, but upon those of the other states,
by which they evinced a strong disposition tt>
encourage the manujaflurc ofjhips. The fame
two states laid duties on the importation of spi
rits manufactured in the other parts of the
union,
The state of Maryland imposed considerable
protecting duties to encourage their own manu
factures. The legislature of Maryland have
encouraged the glass manufactory in that Itate
by a conliderable loan. That of Virginia pasT
ed a fpetial ast since the peace, to encourage
the manufiftory of fnuff and tobacco.
There ale more factories of cordage and cables
intwo of the'fouthern states, Maryland and Virgmia, than in any two oftlieftates ofNew-Jer
ley, New-York, Conne&icut, ancl New-Hamp-
Jhire. Virginia laid a dut* of two-thirds- of a
dollar on cordage by her state import: law.
The important manufactory of (hips has be
come greater in each of the three state s of Ma
ryland, Virginia, and North-Carolina, than it
now is in New-Hampfliire. The fouthem state
of Maryland manufactured in 1 as many ves
sels as any two of the northern states of New-
York, Coimeflicut, and II hode-Ifland.
The paper-mill in the United Sates, which is
mott remote from the Tea, is to be found in the
town of Saiein, in North-Carolina, three hun
dred miles from the lea. No such manufac
tures as those of that village (a Moravian set
tlement) in the southern fta*e of North-Caroli
na, exiit in any part of the uuion north of Ma
ryland, equally remote from the sea.
There is one fceneonly, in the Atlantic coun
ties, in which coal, iron, and waterfalls are
found together in abundance, That £cene, is
therefore, peculiarly qualified for the iron
branch of manufactures. The city of Rich
' mond on the banks of James' river, 111 Virginia,
which is the place contemplate !, may be conli-
in a permanent view as having an incon
"eftable natural advantage over anymore north
ern seaport in this interesting branch. How
profitable wou'd it be to Virginia, were all lier
pig and bar iron pafled under the tilt hammer*,
or through the rolling ai d flitting mills which i
might be ereeled at that place.
Some oi the produce of thefifheries, as before
observed, are to be deemed manufactures. The
herring and (had (or river and bay) filheries,
south of Penniylyania are very coofiderable. A
barrel of herrings is worth.- on a medium at the
fifliing places, 25 } cents. The manufacture of
the calk, the packing, curing, making pickle,
and trimmijig, amount to more "than one fourth
of the sum or tweritv-five per centum. The
calk and manufacturing of distilled spirits from
molaflVs, does not amount to more than one
sixth of tlie value of the commodity, or i6j per
cent. A barrel of pickled fijh of the foutiiern
states may be therefore as jultly deemed a ma
nufacture, as a calk of country rum. A fiinilar
comparison might be made between this article
and ieveral other fmiple manufactures of the
middle and eastern parts of the union. It is
not intended todifcufs the propriety of granting
bounties,but if they were deemed propergrants,
there are points of view in which the southern I
states would appear to have a greater intereftj
in them, than the eastern states.
1 ft. A', the southern states cultivate a greater
variety of raw articles—and are capable of produc
ing a much larger quantity of them, all thatexten
five class of bounties, which are resolvable into
an encouragement to the-growth of therawina
terial, will be much more beneficial to them,
than to the eastern states, whichare more limit
ed both in the kinds and quantities they can;
bring forward for the bounty.
2dly. The southern states having extensive i
and very rich interior and western counties, far
from navigable*rivers, (which the eastern have
not) and the production of thole scenes being
liable to a long and expensive land carriage, I
the bounty would soon be found to enable them ]
to bring the simple manufactures and raw ma- i
terials to the markets 011 the lea coasts, which
they would not, without the bounty, attempt
to transport. This will not be deemed a mere
suggestion of ingenuity, when it is remembered
that the Britilh and Irilli give bounties on their
fabrics, and even on the bulky articles of flour,
grain, and biscuit, to enable the exporter to deliver
them with advantage in foreign markets.
(TO be CONTINUED.")
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
April 3, 1792,
I'he report ef the committee of the -whole,
on the Secretary's Report on the Public
Debt, under consideration.
SHEREDINE moved an a -
-L»-L mendinent to the sth resolu
tion, the purport to provide for tlie
aflmjiption of the (late debts paid,
Slid unpaid—this was amended by Mr.
Madison, by adding the words " fiucel
the peace."
This motion was supported by Mr
Mercer, Mr. Madison, Mr. J. Smith'
and Mr. Findley—and opposed by
Mr. Gerry, Mr. Ames, and several
others.
In support of the motion it was
laid, that the states adted as agents
for the United States, and that the
securities in the treasuries of parti
cular states, which had been paid,
were iouajide as much a debt against
the union, as the securities in the
hands of individuals.
To this it was replied, that the bu
siness at firft \>lufh mull appear im
practicable—for it would be a revival
of the whole debts of the Hates incur
red during the whole war-and vva>
deviung a plan to tax the people in
the most grievous manner, merely for
the fake of raxing them.
This motion was determined in the
negative—ayes 26, noes 29.
Previous to the queliion's being
pur, Mr. Page made the following re
marks :— 1 ibonkl not, said he, trou
ble the House with my opinion, ref
peeting the amendment now piopol
ed,hadit not been determined to take
the ayes and noes on the occasion—
as this is the cafe, and 1 fliall vote
agaiuft the motion, 1 will in a few
words afiign my realbns for so voting ;
they are these—l look upon the rel'o
lution before you, Sir, as out of the
reach of any amendment—as utterly
incapable of amendment — for theaf
fumption of the date debts always
appeared to me as impolitic, unjult,
and unconstitutional. No arnend
ment can now be offered to the rel'o
lution, which 1 shall not look upon as
thrown away, offered in vain, and
which 1 should not think myfelf bound
to rejecfl, with the whole resolution,
if adopted. 1 will not, after so much
has been said, take up your time, Sir,
to shew why 1 think the afUimption
of the state debts impolitic, unjust,
and unconstitutional; but I will pledge
myfelf, before the bill ever pass, to
carry these resolutions into effec r t, to
prove, at least to the fatisfaftion of a
considerable part of this House, that
it is so—at present, I fliall only de
clare this as my opinion, and (hall
vote ugainlt the amendment—-and if
that be received, or not, againlt the
original resolution.
APRIL 9.
In committee cf the whole on the Repre•
fentation Bill.
The motion was to inferc 33,000 as
the ratio—oll this occafton the fol
lowing observations were made by
Mr. Page.—no arguniems have
been produced to convince me that
I was miltaken whew 1 voted tofill tip
the blank on a former occasion with
■ 30,000 —anil indeed as nothiug has
been laid that can induce those who
voted with me 011 that occasion to al
ter their opinion, except lhac the Se
nate will not agree to any other ratio
than that proposed by themselves;
and that we ought to agree to a coin
promife with them. 1 lay, as tin's is
the cafe, 1 (hall vote as formerly for
filling up the blank with 30,000. As
to compromising, 1 have no idea of it—
1 cannot make a compromise by which
1 inuft facrifice the interelfrs of my
constituents—and as to yielding to
the wi/hes of the Senate upon this oc
casion, I think it unreasonable that
the direift representatives of the peo
ple, and a more numerous branch of
the legifJature, fliould give way thro'
mere complaifanee to the Senate—this
would be contrary to the very prin
ciple of a republican government, that
the majority fliould be ruled by a mi
nority ; but what impropriety can
there be in fending up to the Senate
the bill filled up with the fame ratio
which was before sent to them. The
ratio of one to 30,000 has been adopt
ed by them—the only difference be
tween us was, the application of that
ratio. We wished to apply it 10 the
lev era! slates according to their num
bers refpetftively ; the Senate, to the
whole number of all the ftaies ; and
the other branch of the legiilatui e has
refufed its aflent, not to the ratio, but
to this application of it—we ought
not therefore to suppose, if we apply
that ratio conftitutionally,that the bill
will be again refufed. 1 cannot sup.
pose that the Senate would be so in
flexible as not to yield to the repeated
wilhes exprefled by the votes of this
House and that too, in a cafe in
which this house and its conflituents,
alone 1 may fay, are peculiarly inter
etted. In fliort, if we are to propose
to fill up the blank with no other
number but such as gentlemen tell us
the Senate will agree to, I will fit
down, and never wish to rife here
again ; for surely if this be our cafe
this House is ulelefs—and it mult be
to no purpose to make any motion,
until the Senate have been confnltedl
whether they will agree to it or not
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cenis, r , 'V
Deferred, 1 2 ( 6 IZ J9
Indents, *3.1$ 1 3/6
I*inal Settlements,
Half Oiafcs Bank I T S J °/6
Sharca 3i nk f^uo.
6
East-India Intelligence
MADRAS, December 29.
THE Cyngalefe, whose depreda
tions were mentioned in a for
mer courier, are now preparing for a
grand attack on the polleiiions of the
Dutch, on the Ifiand of Ceylon, in
which it is 10 be hoped they will not
succeed—but meet with the chaltife
ineiit their perfidy so amply merits.
Capture of Sevtrn fit oug.
On the 21ft, Lord Cornwallis, ac
companied byGeneral Meadows, went
down to the Batteries, and there de
termined on an immediate allault,
which was accotdingly carried iuio
execution in the following order :
The Light Infantry of his Majesty's
76th, leading the dorm, were covered
by the Grenadiers of the 2d regiment,
in ihe centre, and the Grenadiers of
the 76th, in the rear, under the com
mand of Capt. Gage, with orders, on
entering the breach to rti/h forward
on the left hand, if poflible, gain the
fumtnit of the mountain \v hi lit the
Hon. Captain Lindfay, with the Gre
nadiers of the 7rft" and 72d regiment
was,oll entering the breach,Co attempt
the accomplishment of the fame pur
pose to the right : where Capt Ro
bertfon, of his Majesty's 71 ft regiment
with two companies, his own and the
Light Infantry, of the 72d regiment,
also led an attack as did the Hon. Capt.
Monfon of his Majesty's 52d regiment
with his own Light infantry company.
The storm commenced about 10
o'clock in the morning—Our Troops
dalhed on with firmnel's and intrepi
dity not to be refilled—and in the
short space of one hour and five mi
mites, gallantly carried the whole of
the enemy's works, without the loss
of a man.
The garrison appeared bewildered
in aftoniflnnent, and the only refin
ance they made, was at the attack led
by Capt. Monfon, who forced two
gates.
Severn Droug, is about twelve miles
to the Weft ward of Bangalore .
is a mountain of considerable magi,
tnde, and is said to be upwards of ;
mile in perpendicular height — twi
thirds of it is impregnable, and the
only part where access is polfible—
is interrupted by deep chasms, thai
form a superior kind of natural ditcli
— the lower part of the Mountain is
defended by a fort, or rather a chain
of fortifications, running over de
tached rocks and the funimit, is crown
ed with a work, which a few deter
mined men might in great fafety
maintain against an Army.
1 he capture of Severn Droug, is of
the utmost consequence, taking it ei
ther in a local or political point of
view : under the former ii secures
protection to fifty thousand Brenga
ries, who will now be enabled to
bring in their supplies to the army
free from apprehension—and under
the latter it cannot fail of making a
very deep inipreflion oil the minds of
Tippoo's troops.
Capt. Beatfon is ordered by his
Lordship, to examine the roads, and
woods, to the right and lefc of the
general route to Seringapatam : he
inarched with a party for that pui -
pose on the ift instant.
January y
Capture of Ramghurry and Shsriah
ghurry.
The success attendant on our arms,
is rapid and aftonifning ! and one im
portant event is scarcely announced,
before another presents itfelf— in oilr
lalt Courier, we gave an account of
the fall of Severn Droug, and since
that period several other forts have
fvveiled the lifts of our conquests In
the foremofl of which Hand Sheriah
gurry, and Ramghurry ; captured by
Capt. Wel/h on the 22d ult. In the
latter of these important polls were
found a great quantity of grain and
yV es : twelve Engliih ouns remaik
ably excellent, and a'niachine for
boring musket barrels.
Ramgtiurry is a very rtrong, and
newly built fort, and capable of hold
ing out again It an army. On appear
ing before it Captain V/eJfh fumu.on
ed the garrison ; but the Killedar re
tuled to surrender : however lie liac]
Icnrcely time left him to refiecft on
the consequences er* he saw tlie Pet
tah carried by atfauli : he then thought
it a folly to make anv further r.ri
ance and therefore surrendered
mediately. lu erea n n .
c #ptd r E °F OUTRE DROUC
Oil the fall of Severn Droug c-4
Stuart was detached aeainft n j
, Droug, and on the 22A ult *he fn
the Killedar two hours to cnnfi'i.
' his firuation, and deliver his
The tlme expired, and no anf.er
given—a detachment,
four companies of European,, and
two battalions ofSwpoy,, n „fr r Z
command of Capt. Richard Scott of
the Bengal eftabjifhnient, was then
ordered t° (torn, ,he Pet,ah, which
they did with equal Ipirir and fuccel*
A considerable qnantity of o ra in
and military stores, was found in the
a ' l > s f»id, five hundred fa.
nnlies also of the.principal people in
Tippoo s service.
Outre Droug is by nature v ery
strong, as it is common with other
forts in that part of the country, fim.
ated 011 the fnmm it of a mountain of
a steep and difficult ascent : It con
sists of fix walls,one within the other
of the best kind of masonry, and was
defended by a great number of o-uns
many of them Englilh. ® '
On the return of the army from
Seringapatam this place was summon
ed, but refufed to surrender.
The Killedar is a prisoner—He fays
that on Col. Stuart's appearing before
Outre Droug, the garrison had grown
mutinous, and that four hundred de
fected in the foregoing night.
January 19.
Of the 'brave Chalmers, and his
companion in captiviry, Lieut. Nafli
we have the most painful accounts'
They are ft ill in irons, and in all pro
bability will continue so, until the
fall of Seringapatam.
The tyrant, deaf to repeated, and
pressing representations made by Co
mora du dien Khan, of the breach of
public pledged faith, refufes them
every indulgence. The Veteran lias
in consequence exprefled his refent
menr, and it is said, refufes to hold
any further command in the Sultan's
army, until he fliall have ratified the
capitulation of Coimbatore, and re
leased the prisoners taken there.
CEN. ABERCROMBIE's ARMY.
By intelligence received from the
Malabar coast, of the 25th ult. we
learn, that the army was lately em
ployed in getting; the battering train
stores, a>'d provisions up the Padde
charum Pass.
The great fall of rain had imped
ed the General's Operations ; fothat
he cannot poflibly arrive at Peripat
11am so early as he had expe&ed.
The gallant Colonel Hartley, com
mands the reserve, which is to lead
until the whole joins Lord Comwal
lis.
— II
BOMBAY, November 23
By the In tell- advices from this quar
ter, we are informed th3t (tie Bom
bay army had been formed into four
brigades: Cols. Belfour, Peche and
Major Sterling, together with Colo
nel Hartley, who was to command
the corps de reserve, confiding ofhis
Majelty's 7;d regimenr, and the Bom
bay grenadiers, commanded byCapt.
Gore : — some others were refpeiftive
ly appointed to commands.
PELEW ISLANDS
The two vessels that failed from
Bombay to China several months age,
with orders to touch at '.he Pelew Is
lands, obtained accounts lhat Madan
Blanchard who refofed to accompany
Capt. Wilson and the crew ofthe An
telope to Canton, had been killed in
a skirmish wiih the Artegal people,
and that all the chiefs whose a<sions
have been recoided by the elegant
pen of Mr. Keare were dead, except
the old King.
PARI S, March 27-
The approach of spring causes 3
great ferment in the blood of Ihench
men ; duels are become fafliionable
amusements, and it now appe* rs a '"
moll ridiculous not to have (hot ac
least one friend through the head —
This refinement of sociability is tru "
ly endearing !
LONDON, March 14-
It aj)pears from the books at t e
Excise office, ihar, in the courft o
last year, between fix and seven hon
<lred millions of bricks were made m
the vicinity of London.A journeyman cabinet-maker of
Chelter, in the employment of Mr.
Gardener, has displayed an ailonifb
ing effort of mechanical ingenuity, in
the completion of a wooden automa
ton, in the human form, nearly five
feet higli, which walks about a room,
at the fame time playing upon a harp.
Among the literary prodigies of
the prelent day, may be reckoned
Miss Benger, author of " The Fe
male Geniad," which flie wrote at the
of thirteen.
ARRIL J
Th Lord Chancellor on Wednesday
came to a final decision upon the lo,ng
depending love-caule, Lord Carberry
plaintiff, Miss VVatfon the unwilling
defendant; Hymen counsel for the
former, Caution for the latter. The
arguments of the plaintiff's counsel
were victorious.
A Dr. Obier has pnblifhed tables of
mortality for Geneva from 1560 to
1760, by which it appears, that the
probability of life was greater for
merly than now, amongst old people ;
amongst children and young people,
less.
Mr. Boulton, of Birmingham, has
fncceeded in his application of the
iteam-engine to coining. The diffi
culty of its conftrutftion, and i;s ex
penlivenefs, render it impoflible that
it fliould ever be employed by those
who counterfeit coin. Its advantages,
over the common machines are vari
ous. It works mnch more quickly :
it cuts out the blanks : It (lamps the
milling* the face, and the reverse of
"the piece, at once: the ground re
ceives a fine polifli from its preflure
alone : all the pieces are exatfUy of
the fame diameter : its force may be
regulated in an iuftant, and conti
nues invariably the fame : it may be
worked by boys, and its use requires
little practice.
The three superior Sultanas of a
certain theatre, now afiuine the dig
nified titles of their refpetftive high
connexions—and even the call boy
dare not fummou either of them from
the green room to thettage, but with
Your Roy—■! High—fs ! if you
please"—or ' Your ladyship you
please,' &c. &c.
IRELAND
The following nervous and beau
tiful paflage, an <?xtraiS from the
speech of the Hon, George Knox,
whofeconded the address to the King,
on the opening of the present feUion
of the Irish Parliament, appears not
unworthy theferious consideration of
an Epglifh reader.— i
*' For* ftiyfelf, I am glad of this op
portunity of declaring my approbati
on of the present government and
adminidration,under which thecoun
try has risen to unexampled and al
moll unhoped prosperity—an admi
nistration, liberal and cautious—at
tentive to the interests ofthe commu
nity, without boult, and without bus
tle.—l am also' liappy, as every man
in this House would be, to teftify my
loyalty to a sovereign, whose praise
I am iIJ qualified to speak, but whose
praise it is unnecelfary for me to re
peat, since it lives in the hearts of all
his grateful fubjetfts.—But I an> at
this time particularly anxious to ex
emplify my regard for rhe minutest
forms of the contliiunon, when opi
nions have in other countries, but too
facpefsfully prevailed—not only de
flruttive of all form, but fubvet five
of all eftabliftjment. —That such opi
nions have had but Jinle weight or
currency in this kingdom, we owe,
as well to our admirable and alinoti
perfect conftitu ion, as to the tempe
rate yet anxious: ciicumfpeCtion of
fcis Majetty's Miniflers.— But there
are in all countries, and particularly
in thole where fpecnlative learning
has sown its benefits and scattered its
roifchiefs—men, vain, visionary and
misguided—men, needy, turbulent
and defperare, to whom peace is pef
iilcnce, ai)d the beautiful order offo
ciety, deformity.—lf there fliould be
a few obfeure and contemptible indi
viduals of that description in this
kingdom, no observation of mine fliall
drag them from that obfeurity and
»hat contempt, in which it is their
nature to grovel.—One fecurity,how
ever, we lhall always have, that if e
ver their filly and mischievous specu
lations should ferment into sedition,
ihey will raise against them the strong
arm of the law, and b£ crushed."
Philadelphia, June 6.
Bytwo French Oilps a. , ived at Norfolk, Virginia,
in forty-five days from France, we learn—That as
(oon as Count Florida iilancha was riifmiffed from
the Court of Madrid, the Count d'Ararida, who
ai;c epled of the place of Minffer. went to tile pub
lic jail of that city, and oui ot fifty-two State-pi i
foners detained um)< r t fie ill-groin,ded fufoicions
of Count Florida Btancha, or by the tribunal ot
policy, fifty were let at liberty without paying
costs. 1 hat the fameliad been praffiled at other
places where the State inquisition fiad been inrro
duced .---"l hat the JuinaSuorema of Si ate, is anni
hi.ated, arid the ConlejoSupiemo of State is rcin
tegiatcd.—That the King himfelf is to be President,
and » lie Cou.it d'Arauda Vice-Piefidcnt.—That
the Tribunal of policy created by the ix-Mtnifier,
15 also abolifberi, and another formed for the in
leror policy of Madrid and the Court. That theie
is no doubt hut that Spain will returntotfiofe pr'in
ciples from which Ifie ought never tohavedtviated,
i. e. to look upon Fiance as a natural ally, whole
friendftiip cannot be departed froin without cx
poling herlell to the fame calamities Ore underwent
befoic the treaty of Utrecht, and the introduction
ol a King of the Bourbon family.—That the Count
d'Cifuciites (who was President of Caflillc, and a
Iriend to Florida Blancha) having died suddenly,
the Kir.g appoint-d Don Juan d'Anzedorico (an
upright inagiftrate) as Governor oi that Council, to
i he general fatisfa£tion of the people of Madrid.
That fincc the dismission of Couut Florida Blan
cha (who is now retired near the town of Murica,
in a convent of FYancifcan Fryars) the Chevalier de
Burgoin, and M. d'Durtuby, the French Envoys,
have fettled at Court, and that Count d'Aranda has
piomil'ed that every fatisfadlion Iball be given to
the grievances of the French nation, and of indi
viduals.—That such a sudden change in Spain,
and the death ot Leopold have cut off the head
and arms of the artftocratic party in France. —
The captain, of the above ihips further inform,
that the aflignats had taken a rife, and for a dis
count of 16 or 18 per cent, hard money may be
had-—Thai the King, the Queen and the Prince
Royal of France, were the only persons allowed to
! wear mourning for the death ol the Emperor, who
[had, by his artful and holtile measures, incuried
'the hatred of the French nation—the Prielts, the
Fanatics, and nobles excepted.
When we take into consideration the many im
provements which have bet n made in mechanical
and other arts within the United Stales lince the
eftablifliment of their independence, and the en
couragement afforded by cur government to the
ingenious mechanic and industrious citizen, we
cannot but fee! a pleaiure in the puifpcft of the
riling reputation of our counti y, and the rapid pro
grefsof Aincncato equal il not exceed any coun
try in the woild in valuable and ufeful produc
tions.
The circumllances which have led to these re
flections, have originated from the performance of
a curious Fire Engine, conftrufted by Mr. Richard
Mason, of this city, for the Diligence Fire Com
pany ; and however astonishing it may appear, yet
it is a fact that may be relied on, that on Saturday
last, when the Diligence Fire Engine was played
horizontally, the water was thrown to the dtftance
of one eighty feet, arid when moved
to Christ Church yard, and played in a perpendi
cular direction (although with an unfavorable
w inu} the water was then thrown to the perpendi -
cuiar height of one hundied and sixty-six feet, and
within three feet of the four windows at the upper
extremity of the ficrple. As the performance of
this Engine so considerably exceeds anv. others in
Amcrica in dilcharging such a body of water with
so much force and to such a distance, would it not
be advifeable for the different fire companies to
prt fer such fire engines as the Diligence and'Hi
hernia, so the finaller ones which have been in ge
neral use in Philadelphia ? Fed. Gaz.
M. dp Gardnqui, who succeeds M. de Lerena,
as Miniller of Finance al the Court oi Madrid, has
appropriated to the use oi the poor his Ihare of
leizures and confifcations, amounting on an aver
ager to 100,000 fortes piastres a year.
During the few days of hot weather we have ex
peiicnced, two persons were near being ihe vic
tims of their imprudence, by the too plentiful use
of cold water and'ice—Let this serve as a caution
toothers.
We hear from South-Carolina, that the extra
ordinary swell of the rivers in that state, in the
month of April, has destroyed immense quanti
ties of Indian corn that were stored at the dif
ferent landing places.for market. This, it is
said, will occasion a demand for corn from the
northern states till their next crop comes in.
The General Afiembly of the Prefbyteiian
Church at their last meeting, have appointed
the Rev. John M'Donnald, of Albany, the Re;v.
David Austin, of Elizabeth-Town, and Mr.
Greir, a candidate, under the care of the Pres
bytery of Carliile, on a mission for four months,
to preach the Gospel, among the frontier settle
ment? orv the northern partof the State of New-
York, and on the western parts of the States of
New-York and Pennsylvania The two full
gentlemen commence their million from Alba
ny about the middle of June, the last gentleman
from Sunbury on the Sufquehannah, at the fame
time.
" Such is the temper of the people of France
at this time, that both republicans and aristo
crats feein alike regard'efs of the dreadful con
sequences of civil commotions. The rhotto of
both is—" Success attend our cause, and no
matter for the reft." The republican thermo
meter, however, seems not so high as that of
the sticklers for the old government. These
are every where fomenting internal troubles,
principally by means of the priests, who are al
ways, on such occasions, the instruments of po
pular deception ; and upon these deftriiftive
agents, the counter-revolutionists reft their'
principal hopes cf success." Leyden Cat.
On the 21 ft of March last, was offered atGold
fmiths-Hall, to receive the standard or touch
marks, an exquisite piece of workmanfliip, to
be presented by the Roman Catholic-; to
7
M?tton,Efq. Member of Parliament, for his
laudable and humane exertions to do away the
Per al Statutes. I
This piece of workman (hip is a silver gilt cup,
of twelve quarts, mounted on a circular base,
richly adorned with chafed work; riiing from
th:> is a triangular pilar, again ft which are
three Jjeautiful figures with their attributes
(Faith, ) Hope, and Charity) in alto relievo ; on
the cap ot the pillar is the body of the cup, on
which there is an oval medallion, representing
puie p aith at her altar, trampling on the in
strument of persecution, while the book of Pe
nal Statutes is consuming iu flames in the per
spective.
The handles are four serpents involved ; op
polite to the medallion is the infeription.
AbovVtTis thfc cover, of tie fame gusto sur
mounted With a Fame, in the attitude of pro
claiming good a&ions.
It is particularly worthy of notice? (fays a
correspondent) that no denial has ever appear
ed of the direct and multiplied aflertions, that
tie members of the general government have
carried on job fa and fpcculatiuns in tlieir own
meafures,even uiki/Jl tfwfe measures were depending.
If these charges be true, can any thing be more
difgraceful to the councils of a free country, or
more loudly call for the indignation of a virtu
ous people ? If they are not true, why are they
not denied, and, as far as the cafe will admit,
disproved by appealing to circumstances which
can be investigated ? Instead of being denied,
however, the public has been insulted with at
tempts to slur the matter over by mysterious
and unmeaning paragraphs, the low virulence
'of personal abuse, or, what is worse, by sugges
tions that thole who warn the people against
Peculating andilock-jobbing corruptions in the
government, are enemies to the government
and to the people themselves. Nat. Gaz.
Nothing can equal the malignant effrontery
((ays a correspondent) of certain paragraph writers
in certain newspapers. They deal out general, in
difcrirninate insinuations againfl members of the
government, without ipecifying either persons or
tacts, and they then rail at all concerned in it, be
cause no body comes forward to deny or disprove.
Is any individual to suppose himfelf particularly
aimed at, when a general charge is made against a
number, and to single himfelf out in a newspaper
as t,he vindicator of his innocence? If any man
were weak enough to do it, he would inftantlv be
tola, and rightly, that if he had not been confeious
of guilty he would not have supposed himfelf fuf
pefled. Frpm what too is a man to vindicate him
felf, when no fpecific chaige is made, no fpecific
fa£t alledgcd ? Speculation and jobbing, charged
in the lump, are as vague as witchcraft and heresy.
Any man who expe£ls to put another upon his de
fence before the tribunal of the public, ought to
come forward and ailedge that A. or B. has done
this or that ill thing—he should lay his finger on
the fact ; else he can neither mean nor expe£l to be
anfweied. He makes his chargcs to alarm the
community with ill-grounded fears, and he affects
lo complain that '.hey are not anfweied ,to ftrcngthen
aJufpiiion v-hich he knows to have no foundation.
To fu«;h ge r nejal aspersions it is fufficientto anlweri
generally, that there are many members of
vernmcnt, and among them ihofe who have had a
chtej agenc) in the measures mod bitterly cenfuied
by the Faction, w>.o can conscientiously and
boldly give a flat denial to every imputation of in
terefied or sinister motives—who are absolutely
fiee from every thing that is called speculation and
jobbing. Who dare compare the whole tenor of
their lives and conduct on the score of difinterefh
ednefs and exa£l probity, with any of the mollj
canting pretendeisto superior purity among their
opponents, and who mufl ever feel themselves
humbled by a comparison on those points with
moft*of those who are loudest in their harangues on
the love of liberty, and the love of virtue.
Some persons are very wife in regard to the
dciigns of others. They chatter about the par
tisans of* Kingly power, and affe<st to consider
the plan of subverting our republican govern
ment and free conilitution as well matured, and
that great numbers are engaged in it. The
certificate men, the stockholders of the bank,
the tools of the ministry, the aristocrats, are all
conspirators against liberty; in fliort, all the
men who wifli to buoy up the prefentgovernment.—
Strange ! that a plan against liberty and the
coriftitution ftiould be supported by thole who
are ridiculed fjr puffing the const tution and the
present happy condition of the union, and above
all, who are for buoying up the government. If
a revolution of government is to be attempted,
will it be firft espoused by those whose property
depends on the preservation of the prelent state
of things ? These men are represented as wholly
void of public principle, and mindful only of
gain—and, in the next breath, as blinded by en
thufiafni against liberty to such a degree, as to
put all the property they hold under the present
government, at hazard, for the fake of over
throwing it;, and setting up a despotism. Is not
the constitution a free one \ It is. Is it not
plain that all the property created by the bank
and funding system depends on preserving the
constitution unchanged ? Surely those men will
not be the least friendly to liberty, who willlofe
most by its overthrow. Or, will our wife ones
pretend that men of property are the firft to plot
revolution* &nd civil convulsions ?
But thcffe Mlo delight to cry knave, (pecula
tor, aristocrat, and kingly power, take both
fides of a £011 tradition, and maintain each with
equal good temper and good sense.
The constitution of the United States is so
happily conllrufted, that liberty and property
are inseparably connected with a firm support oi
its principles—this is the grand desideratum ir
government, the want of which, has too often
led the affluent in mod countries to plot thelub
verfion of freedom, rn order the more effedualiy
to preserve their poifefiions.
In this enlightened period of the world, we
are astonished at reflecting on the conduct of
those delpots, who having had it in their power
to command with the wealth and personal ser
vices of mankind, their friendfhip andj admira
tion, excited their abhorrence while living, and
left their memories to the execrations of all
succeeding ages.
Mankind, by a just and wife government,
may be formed to goodness, greatness and true
glory—but to fay that the order and happiness
of society, and much more, sublimity of charac
ter, do not depend on government, is faying
that effects may be produced without a Cause.
It will very soon be found out among other dit
coveries, that government and laws are the
greatest bore that the world of mankind ever
fuifered.
NEWSPAPERS.
To give facility to the conveyance ojNewfpapers agree
ably to the /aw oj the United States, the Poji-majler
General prop oft s—
i ft. THAT all newspapers to be conveyed by
post, being marked, as usual, with the names ot*
the persons to whom they are to be delivered,
Should, by the refpe<ftive Printers, be formed
into convenient packages ; each package to be
under cover (open at one end as the law directs)
and addrelTed to the proper Post-Master, by
whom its contents are to be delivered. That
on such cover, the Printer mark diftinttly, the
number of newspapers contained within it, for
Printers of newspapers and for Subscribers.
2d. For the accommodation of
living remote from Poft-Offices, their news
papers may be formed into other covered pack
ages, marked with the number of papers they
refpedlively contain, and directed to be deliver
ed at noted taverns, or other convenient jlands
on the post-roads.—Such packages being alio
a'ddreffsd to the nearest Post-masters, lliort of
the places of their final destination, shall be con
veyed in the mail, and be by such Post-masters
delivered to the mail carriers to be lodged as
they pass at the Jlands here referred to. But
as the Post-masters are rfcfponfible for the post
ages of all newspapers by them delivered, such
subscribers niuft either pay the postages in ad
vance, or make engagements to the fatisfa&ion
of the post-masters refpe&ively for the payment
thereof, monthly or quarterly, as they can agree.
3d. It is desirable that such news-papers as
are to be conveyed in the mail fhouldbe dried—
This will reduce their weight about one third ;
and at the fame time secure their delivery in
good order—news-papers put up damp from the
pjefs, often get injured in the carriage, their
covers are worn off, and their directions ren
dered illegible.
4th. These modes of conveying news-papers
are proposed as the most eligible which at pre
sent occur—lf others more convenient fliould be
devised, they will be readily adopted.
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
General Poll-Office, Philadelphia, June 1, 1792.
WE the subscribers, weavers of the city of
Philadelphia, attended this day, Thursday
May 24th, at Mr. Pearce's Cotton Manu
factory, No. 13, Pcim-ftreet, to view his ma
chinery ; mod of us are Europeans,and do all agree,
that his abilities in mechanWm are superior to any
we ever saw, especially in his double loom, in
which one man can weave two pieces at the fame
time, 42 inches wide, with equal facility to one
piece in the common loom; this ufeful loom,
when examined, appears simple, the art of work
ing it soon attained, and the extra expence very
small ; his machines for carding and roping are
excellent, and all the reft of the utensils prepared
for the business are contrived with judgment',
the whole of which we hope will soon come into
general use, and be found of great utility in the
United States.
George Siorey,
Francis Storey,
Hercules O'Connor,
David Napier,
William Waddle,
John Maxwell,
James Darrugh,
*** The above being intended for a public good, it
is requeued the Printers of r.ewfpapers will in fert it
throughout the United States.
Died, in ihe Creek country, Col. Alex ande r.
M'Gi llivray, the celebrated Chief of that na
tion, and an ally of the United Stares. Bait. Pap.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA
Brig Silvina, Oakman,
Swallow, Cheeftman,
Schooner Dolphin, Ellis,
Fanny, Ellifon,
Henfield, M'Neran,
Jane, Stowe,
Sloop Delia, Carroll,
Union,
Waifon,
Norfolk, May 23. By the (loop Hetty, Captain
Camplin, in 20 days from Havanna, we are favor
ed with the following intelligence :
That the Governor of Cuba had iflued a procla
mation, dated the 20th of April, ordering all fo
reign merchants, then resident in thit Island, to
depart from thence in 40 days.
That the famous General Bowles was fafely
lodged in the Moro Castle, and so drift were the
Spaniards that he should have no communication
with, or inform the world of his fuuation, that no
foreigner on any pret«ace whatever, wa.« allowed
the liberty of entering the Moro, from the dav
Bowles v as firft lodged there.
Capt. Camplin left the following veflejs at the
Havanna: brig Sally, Sherman, of New-York;
schooner Albioney, Smiih, Salem; ship Willing
Quaker, M'Neal, Boston ; schooner Peggy, ,
Shclbunie ; sloop Rebecca, Ryan, New-London;
, Wolf, Rhode-Island.
TO CORRESPONDENTS,
The perfonaiities in the paragraphs recefaid
lajl Friday.evening, preclude their appearance in ihti
agreeable to a obfetved.
William Wadfworth,
John Kelly,
John Fletcher,
Allen M'Cay,
Thomas Robifon,
Isaac Reighly.
Liverpool
Bo(\on
North-Carolina
do.
Virginia
Barbadocs
New-York
do.JUST ARRIVED,
111 the Ship Molly, Captain Pitt, from Lisbon,
A FEW pipes and quarter-calks of LISBON WINE, far
superior in quality to what is generally imported
And a few bales of the very best CORKS,
TO BE SOLD BY
George Meade,
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
Choice three and five years old Bill of Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or quarter-cask.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-calk-
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-calk.
MESS BEEF, of a superior quality, and such as is fit for
an gall-India voyage, put up in this city.
Choich firft quality BEEF,
Ditto second ditto
do.
do..
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that country.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the firft quality, and
114 Hhds, FLAX-SEED. &:c. &c.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1792
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very firfl quality, and latest importation from Canten, via
New-York, by retail, at
No. 19,
Third, betweeri Chefnut and Market Streets.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
THE Sub fori her intending to confine himfelf* entirely to the
PURCHASE AND SALE of STOCKS ON COMMISSION,
Begs lepve to offer his services to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleal'e to favor him with
their business, may depend upon having it tranfa&ed with the ut
mofl fidelity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon, or any other part of tne
United States will be flri&ly attended to.
bleecker.
(t.f,)*
May 2
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any lime between this date and the firft day of July ensuing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY fitu'ated, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
•watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy expence. The upland lays in the
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marsh, from which (by an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing ftteam of water runs through this tract, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good mansion-house, gar
den, and neccflary out-buildings ; an orchard of the be ft kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees, bearing ; a crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to
Peter Le Barbier Du Esq. No. 86, Chefnut-ftrcet,
Philadelphia; Mr. Humphrey Waterman, at the Washing
ton, on tHe Biiftol Toad; or to Dottor Tomb, at Nefhamany
Ferry, Bucks County. The purchaser, paying one third of the
price down, may have a term of years to pay the residue, paying
interest. May 5. (cp.tf.)
American Lead Manufa&ory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, &Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-War£house, two doors
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoiningtheir &ew Factory—
•where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general affort
mcnt of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Engliih workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufa&ured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrefled to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and execnted on the
shortest notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particularsenquirc of Messrs. Moses Au<tin& Co.
at their Fattory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the fubferiber, on Monday the gth cur.
rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROBIN, is 55 years of age,
stout made, and bred a farmer ; oneot his thumbs much swelled
is 5 feet 6 inches high ; had on when he went away a big purple
coloured cloth coat, a [hort linen coat, a pair of fuftian breeches
a ruffled fliirt, an old beaver hat, with shoes. (lockings and buckles'
all good. Also, a young NEGRO BOY named SAM is ,q
years of age, stout and well made, 5 feet 9 inches high, much
marked with the small-pox ; had on when he went away, a
blue coat, a brown (hort coat, overalls of a mixed cloth' fulled
(lockings, a new wool hat, new (hoes and buckles. Whoever
will secure said Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to the fub
feriber, lhall receive the above reward, and all reasonable charges
P a ' d - . T ALEXANDER RO3ERTSON
Morns-Town, April 17, 1792.
'T'ICKETS in the NEW-BRUNSWICK LOTTERY, are to
X be had at the following places, viz.—Samuel Cooper',
Ferry ; at Burlington, of R. Pierfon, Esq. Bordentown, of Mr
John Van Emburgh ; Mount Holly, ol J. Read, Esq. Trenton!
of John Singer Esq. Amboy,of James Parker, Esq. Elizabeth
Town, of R Gray; Powles-Hook, of Col. Smith and I„d„e
Hunt; Cranbury, of William Throckmorton Spotfwood • and of
the Managers in Brunfwick.
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
Stats.-St r eet, BOSTON
T>UY and fell every kind of the Stocks of thcVniUd Statu, on
JJ Commiffio.., by Private Con,raft, and Public Auction -
who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and difpotch.
Bolton. March. 1702. , v
* , ( law 3m)
May 8, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the thud pay
ment due on the fifft Monday of July next, on each (hare of
the Bank of the United States, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices ol discount and depolit; and that trans er
public debt on account of luch payment, may be m* con
books of the Treasury of the United States, or 111 the office ot any
of the Commiffionets of Loans in any of the States, certi ca es o
which transfers to be depolited in the office in which the specie
proportion of such payment (hall be made.
Refolveds That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious to-the firft days of July and January ot each year
By Order, IOHN KEAN, Calh.er.
At a meeting of tb« Directors of the Bank ot
the United States, March 30, 179 2 •
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Discount and Depoht be
authorised to receive ot Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock of the Bank, and
that the Caftiie.s of the said offices give duplicate receipts for such
payments, oneot which receipts, accompanied with evidence ot a
transfer ot public debt Oiflicicnt to complete said shares, upon be
in* produced at the Bank, (hall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for full (hares, and to all the benefits of the Refoluttons
of the Board of Directors parted the 21ft inllant, relative to com "
pleting fharcs by paymentat any time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the Prefidcnt & Directors. JOHN KEAX.' a/hicr.
C e P9')
TO raise the Turn of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing 1 r
Protcflant Epifcooal Church in the city of New-Biunfwick,
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey,
passed November 1791.
SCHEME.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
(£3" This Lottery is compoied of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being ot such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubled but the undertaking will meet with the moll
liberal support.
The drawing will positively commence on the second Monday
in July, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city ot
New-Brunfwick, under the infpe&ton of Col. John Bayard, Pre.,
fident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the cay ot Am
boy ; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nuladturing Society ot New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had ot the following peifons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, aie under oath, and have given fccurity tor the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he published, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
Apr i l 27, 1792,
N. B. Those ptizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confidcred as a generous
donation to the Church.
* # * Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per month for thei-r money. To accommodate
all those who may be difpofcd to purchase Tickets, letters direct
ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Postmaster, at New-Biunfwick,
and enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for
warded on receipt of such letters.
8
Bank of the United States,
A LOTTERY,
1 Prize of 2000
1
2
,5
10
3°
9°
■675
200
j 00
5°
20
4
1814 Prizes.
3520 Bla-nks,
New-Brunfwick, April 20, 1792,
THIS DAY arc pub/i/hed by Andrew Brown, and fold by the
principal Boukjel/ers in the city oj Philadelphia,
T H E
L A
UN I TED STATES OF AMERICA,
PASSED AT THE LAST SESSION OF CONGRESS:
COLLATED WITH, AND CORRECTED BY THE ORIGINAL
ROLLS IN THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
Price One Quaitcr of a Dollar.
THE ACTS of this fellion, agreeably to the plan of this edi
tion of the laws of the United States, will be confidcrcd as the
FIRST FART of the second volume; so that the a£ts of each
Congress (the duration of which is limited by the conflitution to
the term of two years) will be comprised in one volume.
To the acts of this fcflion will be annexed the ratifications of
the amendments to the Constitution ; the confederation between
the United States and the Delaware nation of Indians ; the trealy
between the United States and the Wyandot, Delaware, Ottawa,
Chippewa, I'attawatimi and Sac Nations; the treaty between
the United States and the Cherokee Nation; and the armistice,
declaring a celfation of hoftilitie» between the United Slates and
Great-Britain: These, with those in the firft volume of the laws
are all the existing treaties.
A copious index will accompany the second volume when
completed, at ihe end of the next feflion ol Congress.
" As it is desirable that copies of the laws (hould be so multi
plied throughout the States, and in such cheap forms,as that every
citizen ofthe United States may be able to procure them," it has
been thought advifeahle, in this addition, 10 omit the ftgnatures
of the Prelident of the United States, the f'rclident of the Senate,
and the Speaker of the House of Rcprefentatives. Their signa
tures would have increased thefizeof the volume, and co<ifequcnt
ly have rendered it more expensive, without adding to itsufefuf
nefs or authenticity, mafmuch as the Secretary of State's certificate
is to be prefixed to th< volume.
This edition tf the Laws of the United States is also to be Sold b\
Mejjrs. Thomas and Andrews, BojlonJohn Carter, Esq. Providence,
Rhode-IJland ; Mejfri. Hudson and Goodwin, Hartford ; Mr. Thoma\
Greenleaf, New-York ; Mejfru Goddard and AngeU, Baltimore-, Au
gujline Davis, Esq. Richmond, and Mr. W. P. Young, Charle/lcn
South-Carolina. , . ' '
TO BE SOLD,
I I KAT large, elegant and convenient HOUSE, in which the
1 subscriber now lives, situate in Elizabeth-Town, in the (late
of N'ew-Jerey, within 16 miles of the city of New.York. It is
Hnilhed in the very best manner, and peculiarly convenient for »
gentleman with a large family. The Lot contains about four
acres of land—the Garden is Urge, well laid out, and flocked
with a good afTottmerit of fruit. For further particulars, enquire
ofWl 1 l t ! am Bradfor D,Efq. in Philadelphia, John Pi nta rd,
Esq. in N T ew-York, or tile Subscriber, on the Premif; s.
Maya, i 7g2 . (iaw 3 w) ELIAS BOUDINOT.
WANTED, the First Volume of the Gazette of the
Imitid Staiis—for which tux Dollars will be paid by
the Editor. '
Dollais is
2000
1000
1000
1000
1000
1000
1500
1800
6700
16000
VV S
OF THE
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com
mifljoners of :he Ftdcral Buildings, to the perlon who, before the
fifteenth day of July ncxr, shall produce to them the molt a D .
proved PLAN, if adopted bythem,for a PRESIDENT'S HOUSE*
to be cre&ed in this City. The (i eof the building, if the arll (J
will attend to it, will of course influence the afpe&'and outline of
his plan ; and it's domination will point out to him iSie number'
size, and distribution of the apartments. Ir will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of ir. may be detached ar><l
ere£led tor the present, with the appearance ot a complete whole
and be capable of admitting the additional parts, in future, if
shall be wanting. Drawings will be expected ot the ground plats
elevations of each front,and fe&tous through the building, m furh
dire&ions'as may be neCcffary to explain the internal ilu&ure
and an esti mate of the cubic feet of brick-work compiling the
whole naafs of the walls.
March 14, 1792.
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
OF a LOT in this City, to be drfigpa'ed by impartial judges
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or'a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party ; will be given hy the Commis
sioners of the Federal Buildings, to the peifon who, before the
fifteenth day of July. 1792, shall produce to them the moll ap
proved PLAN,it adooted bvthem,fora CAPITOL, tobe erc&ed
in this City; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
dial) adopt. The building to be of brick, and to comainthc fol
lowing apartments, 10 wit
A Conference Room
for the R'
A Room
fentatives
.epre!
jjerfons each. L to be of
A Lobby or Anticbamber to the latter { full elcva-
A Senate Room of 1200 square feet area ] tion.
An Atftichamber or Lobby to the last
12 Rooms of 600 fquarcfcet area each, for Committee Roomsand
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Drawings will be expe&ed of the ground plats, elevations of
each front, and fe&ions through the building in such direftjons
as may be neceflaiy to explain the internal ft?u£turc; and anelli
maie of the cubic feet of brick-work composing the whole mass
of the walls.
March 14. 17(52
FOR SALE,
BLOOM SB URY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in occupied for many years paftby
the fubferiber; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, besides
a tract of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of iwu
miles. The farm is divided by the main street leading from
Trenton to Lambertorr, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity; the eaftwardly part being arable land, it laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. Theoth.r
part, bounded by the said street 011 the east, and by the liver on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined effed of filtr
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the moil
beautiful and desirable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
Irandfome, well-finifhcd brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two (loTy brick,
kitchcn ; and commanding 3 very extensive and pleasing view of
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the Neighbouring teats and improvements os\
both tides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new ftonr
coach-house and ftablrs, fufficient to contain fix carriagjs and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining thefl? is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a (lone cow-house, upwards of 100 feet in kogtlr,
containing thirtv-one paved stall's, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, See. Adjoining tht court-yard ot the maufion-houfe, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highcil
state of culture, and abounding with a rich colle&ion of the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and fereral Jargc asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the mau
fion-houfe, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, wcll
built, stone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheefe-ioom,
fpi ing-house, garden, See. a complete stone fmoke-lioufe, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every ether nc
ceffary out-building. The ground is properly divided into Jmall
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chiefly under the
most approved grass. This square has produced annually, for fe
veraf years past, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay, besides
supporting through the summer season twenty to thirty horned
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper icalons,
with great plenty of all kinds of fifli usually found in frefn
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both o. which
may afford a pleasing amusement to the sportsman, as well as a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his taf, '^\
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and ivi e<
by good fences, great fJart of which is formed of red ce ar po s,
and rails of chefnut and white cedar. The purehaLr may .n e
the improved square separately, or the whole togetriei, as may
best suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity 0 £°° U1 "
ing stone on the river shore. The purchase money, if .> ecurc.
and the interest pundually paid, will not be demanded toi many
years. 'c. a
Any peifon desirous of viewing the premises, may e £ ratt
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Eq. o renton*.
or Mr. Inallman, who at present occupies the tarm-hou e and
part of the land—and may know the price on app ica.ion o
fubferiber, at No. 213, South Second-street, oppo itc to t.c.fw
Market, in Philadelohia. » Uh ' v .
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
lii ihc Commonwealth of Mafftchvfelts,
A SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE of the ARTILL„IU
in Me UNITED STATES AMERICA;
THE YOUNG ARTILLERISTS POCKET COMPANION.
IN THRU fARTS.
Part the duty and pra&icc of light hnd
Part 2. Containing the theory and practice of heavy artillery :
to which will be added, an extract of a Treaufeonihe ° |
principle of CourisJUartial, wrote by an experienced Olbcer m
the line, and who did duty as judge-Advocate in
Port laboratory duty -.containing , var ey of
for compofitiori, and the method of '' Q ( or dl
ond Ihc formation of ammunition for the di e
nance.
By WILLIAM STEf'EHS, Efj.
Officer .n the American Artillery ~ hr° u whole ° f tht
late revolution, and face ,n the M.luia.
This woik to be printed'on good paper wit ha hand fometyp,,
eatlv bound and lettered, in three pocket volumes conta.mng
pwards of one thousand pages; illustrated with a gre.t var.cty
►{ explanatory plates, executed bv a c ar.i s.
The price to fubfenhers, Out Dollar earh volume- o non- üb
cribers, One Frtnch Crovn each volume : and those who fubfcr.be
for fix feus, lhall have a feventhgratis.
This wo-k shall be gublifhed as ioon as five hundred copies are
fubf'cribed for. . , , . .
Subfcrintion papers will be lodged with the principal Ptiirtfts
and Bookfcllcrs in the United States of America.
THE COMMISSIONERS.
fufßcierit to ac- - }
> commodate3oo j theferooinj
THE COMMISSIONERS.