Jt NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO. No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 7, of Vol. IV.]
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the fubferiber in February
lart,a■■NEGßO LAD, named PHtL, about
ao years of agr; had on when he went away, a
round jacket, a paii homespun and a i«»w
fh»rt ; ihe fellow has a ytllowiftn complexion, his
hrtghth about live feet fix or seven inches, very
(quare made ; has a mark along tide of his no'e,
ana one of his insteps has been burnt, which caufcs
the sinews to draw.
Whoever takes up said Negro, and fecurrs him
in any jaij, so that I may get him again, (Vail re
ceive the above reward, and have all reasonable
charges paid. ROBERT PEARC-E,
Head Sajjafras, June 16, 1792. (*epim)
RUN AWAY from fubfcviber, living m
Kent County, and State of Maryland, oh
Sunday the 2*»th May last, a NEGRO MA N.
named Hark ; about 40 years of age, about
feet nine inches, high, has a fear over one of hjs
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs his head on
ofie fide, and looks up—had on ami took with
him the followingcloaths, viz. a fearnought coat,
a black and white kersey coat, cut round, a white,
kersey jacket and breeches, two pair of yai n stock
ings, the one pair lately footed, and the other not,
x .a oznaburgh fhLrts, each pieced on one fuse,
twu pair of tow-linen trowfers, one pair patched
h new tow-linen down the fore parts, 2nd an
oiii felt hat.
Whoever takes up (aid Negro, out of this
Sta'o,and ferures him in gaol, fh:ll receive FOUR
TEKX DOLLARS reward—and if taken within
tHis Stair, and secured as aforefaid, (hall receive
EIGHT DOLLARS reward ; and it brought,
borne, reasonable expences will be paid by
PEREGRINE LETHRBURY
Ch-ftcr-Town, June 4, 1791. (ep 8w )
THE following fecttons of the a& entitled,
u An art fpr raising a further sum of money
*br the protection of the frontiers, and for
other purposes therein mentioned, are repub
lifhed for the information of all perfons,who,
on the 29th day of June next (1792) shall be
polfeifed of WINES.
u Se&. io. A ND be it further ena&ed, That
xjL all Wines which after the said
last day of June next, shall be imported into the
United States, shall be landed under the care of
the infpertor of the port where the fame shall be
landed, and for that purpose, every permit for
landing any Wines, which shall be granted by a
Colle&or, shall, prior to such landing, be pro
duced to the said infpeftor, who, by endorsement
thereupon under his hand, shall fignify the pro
duction thereof to him, and the time when, af
ter which, and not otherwise, on pain of forfei
ture, it shall be lawful to land the said Wines.
And the said i;;fped:or ihall make an entry of
all such permits, and of the contents thereof, and
each pipe, butt, hogshead, calk, cafe, box or
package whatsoever, containing such Wines,
shall be marked by the officer under whose im
mediate infpe<stion the fame <hall be landed, in
legible and durable characters, with progreflive
numbers, the name of the said officer, and the
Quality or kind of Wine as herein before enu
merated and diftinguilhed. And the said oificer
shall grant a certificate for each fuchpipe,butt,
hogshead, cask, cafe, box or package, fpecifying
therein the name or names of the importer or
importers, the ship or veflel iti which the fame
shall have been imported, and the number there
of, to accompany the fame wheresoever it ihall
be lent. And if any pipe, butt, hogshead, cask,
cafe, box or package, containing Wine, shall be
found without such marks and certificates, the
fame 'hall be liable to be seized, and the want of
such marks and certificates ihall be preemptive
evidence, that such Wine was unlawfully im
ported and landed."
" Sect. 11. And be it further enafred, That
every person, who fnall have in his or her pof
feflion, Wiues which are intended for sale, in
quantity exceeding one hundred and fifty gal
lons, fliall prior to the said last day of June next,
make entry thereof in writing at some office of
infpeetion in the city, town or county where he
or (lie (hall reside, fpecifying and describing the
casks, cases, boxes and other packages contain
ing the fame, and the kinds, qualities and quan
tities thereof, and where,and in whose pofTefion
they are ; and the officer of infpeftion, at whose
office such entry may be made, ffiail, as soon as
may be thereafter, visit and infpeft, or cause to
be visited and inspected, the Wines so reported,
and (hall mark, or cause to be marked, the caiks,
cases, boxes and packages containing the fame,
with progreflive numbers, with the name of the
person to whom the fame may belong, the kind
or kinds thereof, and words " Old Stock," and
(hall grant a certificate for each cask, ca r e, box
or package containing such Wine, deferring
therein the said cailc, cafe, box or package, and
the Wine* therein contained, which certificate
•hall accompany the fame, wherever it may be
sent. And if any person who may have Wines
in his or her poifefion for sale, (hall not,priorto
the .aid last day of June next, makeentry there
of, a; above direfte'd, he or (he, for such omiflion
or neglect, (hall forfeit and pay the value of the
Wine omitted to be entered, to be recovered
with coit; of suit, for the benefit of any person
who (hall give information thereof, and the
Wjnes so omitted to be entered, lhall be for
feited." (ept29)
ADVERTISEMENT.
I DO hereby give notice to all persons, not so
. cr<*-d it any perfbn or person* whatever on my
account, other wife in my name, or oo my credit,
without ipccia4 Older from under my hand au
thorizing the fame, as I am determined not to pay
anv debt or debts contra&ed without such order
being produced.
THOMAS JONES.
Frcderick-Town, June 5, 179 a. (ep4w)
Wm. cleland,
boston,
Tranfafts business in the Funds of the UnlWd
States {
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &rc.
Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any .other part of the Union, will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality.
June i. (cpim & xatozm)
JUST PUBLISHED.
AND TO IE SOLD (PRICE \of.)
By HAZARD and ADDOMS,
At the corner of Third & Chcfnut Strecis,
T K ft
HISTORY
N cw-Hampfhire,
Vol. 11l
Containing a geographical description of the
State—with sketches of its natural history, pro
ductions, improvements, and present state of fo
cieiy and manners, laws and government.
By Jerem* Belknap, A.M.
This volume compleats the history, and is
peculiarly interesting. Subscribers are delired
to call for their books.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, April 23, 1792.
In committee oj the Qhofc, on the id feSion oj the HH
jor calling forth the mhtia.
(concluded.)
MR- PAGE.—Suppose the cafe (Tiould hap
pen in which the militia should refufe to
ast, regulars then mull: be called in—a fair pre
text for a military establishment. Treason
has existed in every country; and has been pu
niJhed with the approbation of good men—and
should a combination too powerful take place,
and application be made for alliftance, let Con
gress make laws to provide for such cases in fu
ture, It should be remembered that the doc
trine now contended for, is that ver doflrine
which d ifmeir.be red the Britifti empire. Sir, it
would have been happy for Britain if this doc
trine had never been taught in that kingdom.
Soldiers, not militia, must be the proper tools
for the government that wishes to enforce its
laws by arms. But do the virtuous, patient,
fubmiliive and truly patriotic citizens of the
United States, deserve the fofpicion which is
excited againS them, and stigmatizes them in
the c'aufe which I move to strike out!
Such bills in a free state, where the people
ha\ e been taught to look upon the right of re
fufing i'ubntifiion to unconstitutional acts, may
excite infurreftions much easier than quell
them. n
Tie motion for striking out was negatived.
Mr. Steele moved to amend the feftion by
striking out the clause which authorizes the
Prelident ol the United to call out the militia of
one State to suppress infurreftions in another.
enforced this motion bv faying that he
hoped it would always be found that there were
a fufficient number cf persons within every
State weil affeited to the laws to suppress any
opjjofition to them within the State.
Mr. Murray replied to Mr. Steele, he said
that the gentleman's observations went to de
prive the people of one of the most obvious be
nefits ariiing from the fecial compact. He said
he ffiould be much obliged to t'ie gentleman if
he wou:d point out any other rcmedv for the
cafe contemplated, than that propoie'd, for his
own part he knew of none.
Mr. Giles observed, that the exigency con
templated by the ie&ion was of* so great magni
tude, that of the opposition of a whole ft ate to
the laws of the union, that it required a more
competent provision than was provided hy thin
bill. He was fully imprelfed with the propriety
of the government's poflefling a power to exe
cute its laws, ar.d to provide for its own lecu*
rity—ftill he con fide red that the cafe to be pro
vided for, could not happen suddenly, and there,
fore he thought that the power now under con.
25
Saturday, June 23, 1792.
Mr. Baldwin moved an amendment to the
2d ftftior, providing that information of any
inftiTreftion (Kail be communicated to the Fre
fidcat of the United States by one of the aflb
ciate justices, or the district judge ; which was
agreed to.
Mr. Mercer propafed an additional feflion
providing for the iiluing a proclamation by the
President of the United Statesarrd for the read
ing fijch proclamation in the hearing of the in
surgents, previous to using a military force ;
which was agreed te.
Sexton 3d—Mr. Mercer moved to add after
the words " articles of war" in the 15th line^
except that they /hall not be fiibjeß to corporal puvijh
fnent; this after some debate was negatived.
To the DIRECTORS and COMPANY of the
Sl'squ eh ann ah and Schuylkill Canal,
or Inland Navigation.
VII. T FREFER the natural beds of thecreeks
JL to artificial canals, for several reasons :
l. It preferve.«and benefits all the mills and water
works that are already, or may he built on those .
creeks, with the inconvenience only cf being obli
ged to stop, when the watersmay be so low as not to
afford a quantity fufficicnt for them and the canal
service. 2. They are less liable to caving, filling
up, absorption of water, &c. than artificial canal?.
3. Mill ponds have little current in them, even in
the highest frefhes. 4. They afford ample room for
all boats to pais and repafs, or stand still, as cir
(Tiimftances may require. 5. Roads, connexions
of farwns and neighbourhoods, will be less incom
moded by this than the other mode. 6. The ex
pence is vaftlv less in ibis than the other way, and
the probable benefits greater and more sure.
IX. I prefer the above mentioned machinery
for drawing the boats over the dams to locks for
several reasons; 1. It requires much less water ;
a. less time ; 3. is at least equally fafe ; 4. is in
less danger of damage ; locks are high dams which
all experience has taught us, are difficult to be
made secure ; 5. damage in them is more fatal
than in the others, for if the machinery Hiould
get out of repair, the boats might be drawn over
by capjlansworked by hand, till the machinery
could be repaired, but carrying away one lock
must suspend the whole trade; 6. damages are
more fpeeclily repaired in the one than the other ;
carrying away a lock in the soring or fall high wa
ters, would be irrepairable tiM the waters abated,
but breaking oi the machines may be repaired ar
anv time ; 7. the expence is much less in the one
mode, than in the other ; 8. in the vast empiie of
China, all the pans of the country are conne6>ed
by inland navigation, without a Angle lock, all the
boats (some of 200 tons) are drawn over the dams
by machinery ; their inland navigation is of older
date and in more nniverfal ufethan has exifled in
any oth'-r nation, and I think the long prafticeof
these ingenious people exhibits an example, which
we may fafely imitate.
On the whole matter, 1 suppose about 3®<Jamj
willhe fufficient between the two rivers, and I
isn't conceive that they would coll with the above
f.iid*nachinerymore<han 10001. each on an aver
age, thecanal and water courses on the height of
Und I imagine can't col) mote than so.oool. all
which together requires but one third of our capi.
tal provided for the purpose, but as fdon't pre
tend to be adequate to this part of the fubicfi I
will drop it.
I beg leave heir to subjoin one word ■with'ref
pect to the manner jtvf beginning the work viz
whereas the rooftefleniial part of the whole con
cere, conUfts lrf bringing a fufficient supply of
water on to the height of lied m ;hr ctttw. land
Ederation cou!d not with fa/ety be entxufted to
thev President of the United States—he was
therefore in favor of linking out the clause.
MV. Gerry supported the cktjfe—he denied
that it involved the conferences deduced by
the gentlemen opposed to it It does not sup
pose a state to tw in rebellion—such a supposition
cannot be supported, v.-hen it is considered that
in order to a Hate's being considered in that
light, a legislative ast rani prec de and accom
pany a declaration of the fact. He adverted to
facts to fliew the ueceffity of the provision. He
bad np objection to qualifying the cause by di
recting the marshals in the firft instance to ap
ply to the executives of the several states.
I Mr. Baldwin was opposed to the clause, and
in favor of striking out—he adverted to the
conftitntion to fnew that it was not contem
plated thereby, that this power (hould be {light
ly delegated to the executive, and agreeable to
this idea the firft Congrafs bad dealt out this
power with a sparing hand.
The motion for striking out the clause was
negatived.
Mr. Steele moved to add a clause providing
for the intervening of a session of Congress pre
vious to the marching of the militia of one S ate
into another ; this after lbms debate was ne
gatived.
An amendment was then moved by Mr. Ma
dison to modify the feftion so as to delegate this
power to the President of the United States du
ring the recess of Congress.
Mr. Eenfon observed that with refpeft to the
ohjeft, State lines were perfectly idea!—that an
inhabitant of one State was equally bound with
that of another to march to suppress insurrec
tions, and to assist in esecution of the laws as
much as the inhabitants of a State in which the
opposition to the laws existed.
The motion of Mr. Madison was agreed te.
[conoluped.]
[Whole No. 52,9.]
I think it would be proper to begin the work,
by the small c.malsor ditches which are *o carry
warer from ihe various streams and springs which
are To supply it on to the said crown land, that we
may have this great article afceusirred and con*
firmed by a&ual experiment, that we may know
the quantity of water we may depend on, for on
this the scale ofall the subsequent works must be
calculated.
Further, I don't conceive that ar.y arduous ef
forts of genius are like to be wanted in the whole
affair, I am of opinion that an original genius able
to calculate the scale and proportion of the work,
and place them so as to make the most advantage of
the grouud, the water, the means and materials,
which are obvious to every one, is all the ftockof
abilities required in a fuperintendant ; all that re
mains to complete the works is the employment
of faithful workmen of fufficient skill iu their se
veral trades, or the several parts of the business
which they are appointed to execute.
I object to any extravagant emoluments given
to the fuperiruendants, either principal or subor
dinate, this makes the concern a profitable jobb to
them, which lasts as long as the works last, and
ceases when they are completed, and of course
gives the fuperinteridants every inducement of
personal interest to prolong them as far as they
can
I would rather propose to give them a sum ge«
nerouflv adequate to their reasonable expences,
whilst they are employed, and when the works
are finifhed, give them for their reward, a certain
number of shares in the canal; this can be paid
by the company easier than cash, and this will in
duce the fuperintendants to complete the works
as perfe&ly and as soon as they can, for the more
perfect the works ar?, the more valuable will the
shares be, and the sooner the works are done, the
foonerthey will receive their profits : and I thiuk.
it always prudent as far as may be, to connect pub
lic considerations with private interest—in this es
say, I pretend no more than to exhibit the grand
principles and outlines of the great obje& in view,
if these are admitted, a thousand particulars which
the detail of the business will bring into view, will
be easily adjufltd by any genius adequate to the
diregion of it.
As the objcfl is allowed by every body to be of
vast magnitude, and most capitally conducive to
the interests of this city, and indeed the whole
State, as well as all the country weft of us, it
ought to be thoroughly investigated, and well un
derstood, and as the discovery of the true princi
ples, and forming the proper plans of any business
are eflential to the fuccefsful execution of it, any
attempt to develope and delineate them mtift ha
virtuous, the fubjeft is new to us all; I don't p>e
tend to comprehend ail its extent, but such thoughts
as have occurred tome, I offer to the company,
to be adopted, improved, or rejetted as they may
firtd expedient.
A CITIZEN OF PHILADELPHIA
Philad. June 13-, tyqz
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, April 24.
THE iollowing most singular acci
dent happened at Cardiff, a few
days since : As the son of Mr. Jones,
school-master at that place, was at
tempting to pull some hair out of the
tail of a young horse, he entangled
his finger in such a manner, that in
his endeavors to extricate himlelf he
pricked the animal by some means,
which caused him to leap over a wall
near which he was (landing and drag
ged the boy after him, by which
means the poor fellow's brains were
dashed out, and otherwise rendered
a (hocking fpedtacle.
Mr. Wilbcrforce has been present
ed with a beautiful pidlurereprefent
ing a (lave in the temple of liberty
trampling on his chains. This pic
ture was executed and presented by
a Birmingham artist, as a small token
of his efteera for that gentleman, who
has Co arduously endeavoured to ef
fedi an abolition of the slave trade.
Letter from Earl St aKH ope t* M,
Condorcet, member of the
ty for the city of Paris.
London, April 3.
" IT is with extreme pleasure that
I have the honor to inform you, that
the House of Commons,' where I part
ed the whole night, have determined
that the Slave Trade shall be abolish
ed.
" The friends of the Blacks, with
Mr. Fox, Mr. Pitt, and Mr. Wilber
force at their head, prefled for the
immediate abolition, but they loft
this motion by a majority of 193 a
gainst 125 —and the House postponed
to another day the question for fixing
the period of the abolition ; but the
great question, that the trade shall be
abolished, was carried by a very great
majority, 230 against 8;. You will
*not fsjil in France, I hope, to follow
the example of Denmark and En
gland, and shew thereby, that yon
deserve to be free yourselves. We
touch, at length, the glorious mo
ment when philofopliy and reason
make justice triumph every where,
and when the friends of the rights
of mep will overthrow all abuses and
all tyrannies. Permit me ro rcongra
tulate you on the news which 1 fend
you
" P. S. Have the goodness to fejid
this letter, when you have read it,to
my refpe<ftable friend, M. la Roche
foucauld, begging him to fend it to
the worthy'Perion.
" There were about joo petitions
against the.slave trade."
Such were the terms in which Lord
Stanhope communicated this great
triumph of feeling and justice to his
friend, Condorcet, and the following
is M. Condot cet's obfervaiions on the
event.
" Thus, when Mirabean desired to
propose to the Condiment Assembly
to concert this law with the Engli/h
nation—a law commanded by huina
nity and judice—when intrigue drove
him from the Tribune—when a cor
rupted cabal ftifled his voice—it was
not a philofophica] chimera which
■he promised ! Thus, within the space
of fifteen days, the friends of the
Blacks have seen the Representatives
of two great Nations confound the
calumnies of their detractors, ami
the fopbifms of the enemies to uni
verlal liberty ! Thus the moment is
come, when every year, every day
will be marked by the deftrucftion of
a prejudice—when one, at lead, of
the chains of human kind will fall
off! Ah! who is the man so loft to
the fentitnents of nature, whose heart
does not find in these triumphs, con
solation again ft the injustice of weak
men, and the hatred of the satellites
of tyranny."
_ M. Briffbt, in announcing this glo
rious conquest over insane and debaf.
ing prejudices, fays—" The enemies
of humanity will not fail to allert
that this is a trap, made by 500 cities
and communities, and supported by
100,000 English citizens, to catch and
deceive the French people."
It is very singular, that the King
of Sweden died in the persuasion that
Ankerftrom, even though he hadcon
fefled himfelf guilty, was not his as
sassin. He said that the person who
held the pistol was tall, whereas An'-
kerftrom is of a law stature. In con
fetjucnce Ankerftrom has been put to
the torture, in order to compel him
to confefs his accomplices, since there
were certainly two concerned in the
aflaflination, Ankerftrom, who held
the poignard, and the other tall per
son who discharged the pistol. An
kerftrom has, however, persisted in
declaring, that he was alone, and that
he alone wished to infliift that death
which was to do justice to humanity
by ridding it of a tyrant. '
As Toon as the aflaflination of the
King of Sweden was known, the fa
mous Nordermalm tolled in melan
choly.found ! This is a great bell in
a tower on the summit of a high
mountain, which is never heard but
on very important and alarming oc
casions. The panic which it struck,
may be eafijy conceived. Norder'-
lnalm has been tolled only twice since
its terrible annunciation of the flames
ifluing from the Royal Palace, in the
year 1697.
In the session of the National As
sembly of the 15th infl. a letter was
read from the Marine MiniOer, an
nouncing that 4000 men of the Nati
onal Guards and 2000 troops of the
line, had received orders to embark
for St. Domingo ; and that 2000 o
thers, half troops of the lineand half
guards, are detained for the Wind
ward islands, and will embark towards
the end of next month. He thinks
it neceflary, however, that the lalt
Jaw relative to the political rights of
the Mulattoes should be sent to the
Governors of the different Islands, by
a packet which is ready for that pur
pose. 1
Jp e Ki, 'S ? f Hungary's reply to
the French K.ng is considered as tan
tamount to a Declaration ol War ■
he demands for the French Monarch
his liberty and authority • for the
Princes, their rights and possessions ;
for the Clergy, its property and ex
iflence ; for the Nobles, their pri»i.
leges, titles, and hereditary tranfmif,
lions. To support the above requifi
tions, the young Monarch will have
in Jirifgaw and the Netherlands,
i 50,000 Auflrian soldiers, 50,000 Pruf
flans, 15,000 Eleiftoral; Swedes
and Ruffians, 25.000 Spaniards ; ano
ther army in Piedmont, and the com
bined Squadrons. To which may be
added, the powerful body of Emi
grants. All this prodigious force
will be reajly by the middle of May.
The King of Spain returned the
Jacobins for answer, " That no pow-,
er has a right to demand the reason
of his adions, and that be /hall aJTign
none to any." This is signed bj the
Count d'Aianda. WAR, theicl'ore,
with France may be looked upon as
inevitable.
! The King of France was on hoi fe
I back on the 10th of February last in
I the great street offauxbourg Saint
Antoine, where a man was cleaning
the glades of the lamps. A country
man, who was passing, called out,
" Leave the lantern, and let Monsieur
Veto pass." The King immediately
changed his route, returning to the
Thuilleries.
The system of war and maflacre,fo
long supported by the profligate ty
ranny of Despots, is now falling into
deserved contempt. What can be so
horrible as the idea of thirty thou
sand men meeting thin, thonfand
men for the purpose os slaughter,
when the individuals have not the
fl'ghteft enmity to each ofwer, and
the promoters of the niifchief remain
at home in peace and luxury, to prey
upon the vitals of the Nations they
command
STANHOPE
The ignorance of the people is the
only security for Despotic Govern
ments. Enlighten mankind, and they
will be Free.
The total misrepresentation of facts
in whatever happens in France, the
vulgar abuses of a revolution, the most
glorious that was ever known in his-
Tory, the daily detracting from the
merit of the members who compose
the National Atfembly, and all the
lalflioods and infamies which dis
grace the hireling ministerial prints,
ihould serve to open the eyes of En
glifhinen to their true interests ; for
Inch pains would not be taken to vi- I
lify an event, unless Liberty wascon-
Iklered by people in power, as their
enemy.
How defetfive must be that mode
of education which can generate filch
a race of conceited ignorant puppies
as we fee swaggering in our streets,
and in the lobbies of our public plac
es ! Such a set of ill mannered boo
bies dHgrace the gallant nation to
which they belong.
People of title in this country ima
gine, that they have no occasion for
character—that, they think, is 6nly
fit for the vulgar.
Mr. Paine, in his two celebrated
works, has let the Cat out of the bag ;
the Aristocrats will find much diffi
culty to get the Cat in again. In
deed they will.
Men, of what is called Rank, are
frequently guilty of anions, which
would forever damn the fame ofpei
fons in inferior situations, and fink
them to general contempt. So much
lor Rank !!!
At a late trial, during the last sum
mer afhzes in Ireland, a Mr. Morton
prosecuted one John Farrei, for an
aliault, with an attempt to commit a
rape upon his daughter. The daugh
ter was alfoa prosecutor. When Mr
Morton had given his testimony for
the crown (as the term is), he wr.s
cross examined by the counfelfcr the
pnfoner. The firlt queltion asked
him by one of ihofe counftl was,
1 ray, Sir is the young Lady your
daughter?" The evidence replied
c 1" r L ay ' S , ir '" contin «»ed the coun
*s , , how know she is your
daughter >"
The witness thus exprefTed himfelf:
Gentlemen of the Jury, I am c,U
. u P on m this court to give my ief
timony. _ I have given it honettly as
to my mind, and true as to the facts.
A counsel 1 suppose him fe by his
mi pertinence—has aiked whether J
can, upon oath, swear that this young
Lady ,5 my daughter— Many of you
are fathers, and will f ee l upon the
occalion as I do.
a curious case
26
One c-bi'ervation I beg of the
Court a perniiffion to make—lt is,
that in fupporc of the laws of my
country, I come forward here to pu
nish a tranfgreflor, at my own ex
pence, and that the man who has
a Iked riie the question as to my daugh
ter's legitimacy, and who, no donbr,
means to ask many more of the fame
fort, is a person bribed to pervert the
course of justice.
" Gentlemen, I will prove the as
sertion—Look to his brief ; he ac
knowledges to have received ten gui
,nea» to de a villain.
" Will yon believe the testimony
of a man who is not purchased, in
preference to the arguments of a man
who is publicly bribed, or will vou
not ?—That is the qneflion."
This so completely tumbled the
counsel on his face, that he immedi
arely shewed his bark, and the pri
soner was convicted and sentenced to
two years isnprifonment, and to give
futurity for his good behaviour dur
ing life, himfelf in two thousand
pounds, and his security in ioocl.
each.
BELFAST, (Ire.) April 14.
Paine's reasoning will in all pro
bability be acculed of killing the
King of Sweden, as well as the Em
peror of Germany. What Jlrotig rea
foning this must be ! !
HAGUE, April 15
There is eitabliflied at the Hague
a private committee of French emi
grants, ir consists but of a small num
ber. This Committee is entrusted
with the management of the imerefts
of the exiled Princes at the Court of
the Stadtholder.
PARIS, April 10,
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, April 3
M. Narbonne was admitted to the
bar of the Aflembly to make his de
fence against the charges which have
been made againrt him. He was
much applauded, and M. Dnhem call
ed out that such a<fts of adulation de
graded the AflemblyJ Aconfiderable
disturbance followed in the hall. M.
Dumolard demanded that the citizens
should be turned out from the tri-|
bunes.
fy them
M. Mirlin attemped to jufti
The confufion which now took
place, was so great, that the President
was obliged twice to put 011 his hat
to restore order.
After a tumultuous debate the As
sembly decreed, that there was no
ground of accusation against M. Nar
bonne.
PROVIDENCE (R. 1.) June 14
At tlie Circuit Court of the United
States, fitting at Newport on Monday
last, a decision was given in a cale of
importance. Two Merchants, of Lon
don, in company, commenced an ac
tion again ft a citizen of this State for
the recovery of monies due—the de
fendant's council plead a resolution
of the Legislature of this State In bar
of the action—by which he was al
lowed three years to pay his debts—
and during which time he was to be
free from arrests on that account.—
The Judges were unanimously of opi
nion, that, as by the Conflitmicn of
the United States, the individual
Slates are prohibited from making
laws which fl-.al] impair the obligation
of contracts—and as the resolution ill
queftton, if- operative, would inipaii
the obligation of the conn art in quef
tion—therefore it could not be ad
mitted to bar the adtion.
N E W-\ ORK, June 19.
Every lree citizen, lays a corref
pondenr, has a right to enquire into
ihe principles of governmental mea
sures, ancHo expose their errors or
their defects ; while they continue
111 force, acquiescence is his duty,
hut no argument can prove him
wrong in endeavoring to accoinplifh
a repeal of them. The press is one
channel through which he may com
municate his thoughts to the public,
and the reasons of his condmft. As
femblies of the people, convened for
the pnrpofe of deliberating 011 pro
per plans to be pursued tor obtaining
ledrefs from public grievances, from
meafnres which are oppressive and
übverfive of the constitution of the
itare, are juftifiable and requisite.
Liberty is too sacred a treasure to be
in the degr*
is the means of enjoying cvsrv 'i
blessing, in eivil society an7iL
to the noble and enlL,^ Mrer
than life itfelf, ' 6hle,,ed
By a gentleman of veracity f rom
Ca, la da we are informed, that when
he pa (Ted Threerivers, he mer -
f°r^M}ua ge PoZllTH<2
diftna, m Upper Canada with them
a prisoner, and in ii ons._Tfeeehai-<,I
against hirtr was f,?d to be freafon '
letters having been detected writt-a
in his name, and as report fays, j, r
his hand, giving information ta h»
friends in the Onired States how IV
| troit may be easily carried. Thij
gentleman was formerly 0 f Bofttrti
in New-England ; and "when our in'
for man t saw him he was on his Wa y
to Quebec, by order ot the command
ing officer at Detroit.
BALTIMORE, June i 9.
A letter from Cape-Francois,
ceivei by Capt. Frazier, wholeftthat
place on the 24th ulr. mentions, that
the arrival there of the late decree
of the National Aflen.blyhad throw«
the inhabitants into a great ferment
and it was expetfed that disagreeable'
consequences would ensue.
A eorrefpondent informs, that b«s
ing, on the nth inft. at a refpertable
farmer's house in Baltimore county
he saw four lambs weighed, the'
weight of which were as follow;—
80, 82, 87, and 90: The lambs were
about four months old.
The Governor of Virginia has, by
proclamation, summoned tlie Legifla-
Ture of that State to meet on the rft
day of October next, in the city of
Richmond.
HARTFORD, June 18
At a meet! ig of the Stockholders
of the Hartford Bank, convened ac
cording to law, on the 14th day of
June, 1792, the Hon. Oliver Ells
worth, Esq. was elected to prefrdeat
said meeting for the election of Di
rectors of said Bank, when the follow
ing persons, viz.—Jeremiah Wadf
wo.th, John Caldwell, John Morgan,
George Philips, Barnabas Deane, Ti
mothy Burr, James Watson, Caleb
Bull and Ephraim Root, were duly
elected Directors of said Bank for the
ensuing year.
On Saturday met for
the purpose of choosing a Pfefident,
and made choice of the Hon. Jerf
mi a h Wads worth, Esq. who declin
ed fervinjr, whereupen John Cald
well, Esq. was elected.
Hezekiah Merri r. l, Esq. was at
said meetingappointed Caihier offaid
FROM THE NATIONAL GAZ£TT£.
[T may he inferred, from a publi
cation in the National Gazette of*
he ißthof June, that the deftrutftion
if ihe Excise officer's lign,in German
own, had taken place in an opeu
nanner, from the hands of foine
nown persons ; and the citizens of
he United States may be led to fup
>ofe that their government isfo inat
entive, or so feeble, rhat so great a
ireach of the law has been permitted
o take place near the feat of the go
ernment without notice: It will be
noper therefore, that the true slate
>i the affair be published in the fame
Gazettes which have, or may publish
he paper alluded to.
The collector of the revenue for
he counties of Philadelphia, Bucks
ir.d Montgomery, resides inthecoun
y of Bucks; and for the accomtuo
lation of the diftiliers in the county
if Philadelphia, he effablifhed an of
ice of infpeftion in Germantovvn, as
he principal village in ihe county of
'hiladelphia. The person who kept
t for It im had placed a sign over his
loor, inscribed according to law,
'* Office of Infpeiftion." This lign,
ar board, after it had been up some
days, was secretly taken down in th:
night tivie, by some person or persons
at that time and now unknown. The
officer was duly, and im mediately ex
amined, by the government upon the
fubjeift, with a view to prosecute the
person or persons who had committed
the offence; but from the secret man
ner in which it had been done, under
cover of th? night, the names of the
persons could not be discovered thro
the officer, or by any other means.
.«■ *urn
/Philadelphia, June 23.
jCaptain Makins of the Barque Hope from Ha
flre de Gracc, which place he left on the 1 ftof May,
'informs that when he fail'd it was currently re
ported and generally believed, that the French for.
1 ces had taken Ostend, Letters from Havre-de
[Giace do not confirm this account.
r Further European accounts are received by
the Juno, Capt. Brice, from Havre de Grace,
and other late arrivals—theft inform that the
Austrian troops are in motion from various quar
ters, marching to the territory of Bavaria, &c.
That the city of Louvaine was to prepare for
the reception of 10,000 troops—That Madame,
wife of Monficur the French King's eldcft bro
ther, is gone to her father the King of Sardinia—
That travellers are permitted to proceed on
tV;irjournies in Sweden, tranquility being main
tirhied in the capital and in the reft of the king
dom—That Count Horn was concerned in the
late affaflination; that he gave the figr.al by
striking the King on the (houldcr, and faying to
him, bo'n fair mafqut, and while the King turned
his head, Angerftrom fired—That the States of
Brabant have consented to the fuMdie- which
thev have hitherto refuted; the principal ob
ject", ofdifpute having been previouflv lettled;
the court having yielded to the withes of the
Brabancons in granting the eflablithment of a
permanent deputation at Vienna to watch over
the interests of the nation; while the
Stater, made equal facrifices on their part, in
order to secure tranquility—A general invasion
on the part of the French was daily expected at
BruflTells; Luxemburghand Namur have orders
to defend themselves to the last extremity;
other places to be evacuated as soon as the
enemy appears. —Notwithstanding the strongest
precautions to prevent a iecond infurre&ion,
the inhabitants of the Low Countries appear
more than ever disposed to assert their indepen
dence ; and the government is said to be in the
greatest alarm with refpeft to the present pos
t-ore of affairs.
The apprehension that the French would in
vade the territory of Liege, has induced theße
public, fays an article under the head Hague, to
advance troops towards the frontiers —they
talk of diftribiiting 20,000 men on the frontier
towards Maeft'richt, which it is expe&ed will
be the theatre of the war.
Ankerftrom, it is said, expired in the midst
of tortures, which had been applied to extort a
confeflion of his accomplice",—he remained firm
to the last, and made no discoveries, affirming
ithat he alone was guilty.
TheEmprefsof Rullia, it is faid,has exprefled
some hostility to the new constitution of Poland.
I The ardor of the people of France to defend
the new constitution, may be conceived of in
some measure from this circumstance—on its
jbeing known that 50,300 men were wanted to
Ljompleat the army,3?o,ooo volunteers appeared
enrolled.
r The condutt of the Jacobin club, misrepresent
/ed by partial foreign papers, has given uneafuief*
/to the friends of liberty, good order and the
French in this portion of the globe. Their stre
nuous and' fuccefsful opposition to minfftry has
been looked upon as the vi&ory of faflion over
eftablifhcd The word Club gives an
idea bf a confined knot of men, and when the ob-
ject of that club is known to be political opinions,
theexpreflion itfeJf is almost fynonimous to fac
tion : But give them their other name, Society ot
Friends to the constitution ;—To this add, that a
majority of the leading men in the nation belong
to the Society, and you totally change their cha
racter. This Society, fundamentally republican,
has long viewed with regret and opposed with
firmnefs the doubtful measures of the ex-ministry.
Mimfters are changed, the views ot the society are
fulfilled ; deciOve meafuiesare adopted the op
position ot the Jacobins will die away, until a
treth cause calls it into asion.
The insult offered by the People of Paris to the
bust and name of Fayette, has'given pain to all
who have ever heard a name, which alone gives an
idea of real greatness and disinterested patriotism.
This insult,- however unmerited, is perhaps not
wholly to be attributed to the blind and ufUhiiik*
ing madness of a mob. It is prohable that La
Fayette "has (hewn himfelf too prudent in the late
crfis, and that his caution, by minds enthusiastic
of liberty, mav have been mistaken tor want of
zeal in the good cause. It is certain that a line of
conduct ftriftly prdper in fettled and quiet times,
does not suit in times of political agitation. When
parties run high, the good cause mufl be supported
with enthuliafm and absolute violence, to outweigh
a&ivity and extravagance of oppofue partizans.
On Monday night last, the store of Messieurs
Brown & Szvaine, in Second-street, Northern Li
berties, was broke open and robbed of fundrv
goods and effects to the amount of about five
hundred pounds. The villains gained admission
by drawing the hook of the window lhutter
hinges.
H The biU for incorporating the new Bank in
the town of Boston, was negatived the 13th inft.
yeas 80—nays 92.
The account publiflied in several papers of an
attack on the town of Frankfort, in Kentucky,'
is not true. A gentleman dire&ly from the
place, who left it since the event is said to have
happened, fays no attack has been made on the
town. It was reported at Frankfort, that some
ftragcrl ng Indians had killed one man, and itole
some horses not far from that settlement.
Capt. Thistle, arrived at Beverly, Maffachu
fett:, from Bayonne inFrance, whence he failed
on the 27th of April, informs, that War had
been dailyexpefted during hisftayatßayonne—
that there, as well as in every other part of
France, they were diligently preparing for it,
by training their militia, in which every lad al
most taat could lift a inufket was enrolled—
t:iat the people were in high spirits, and confi
dent of l'utcefs.
On Wednefddy last was held in tiie Methcdift
Church In Fourth-street, a commencement of a
number of the Students in the Young Lady's
Academy, under the fuperintendance of Mr.
Poor. A large and refpe&able audience at
tended on the occasion, who appeared to be
greatly ploafed and entertained with the per
formances of the day.—-Diplomas were received
from the hands of the principal, Mr. Poor,
by nine young Ladies, who have finifhed then
education in the Academy.
On the foft accents of the jtmale tongue,
70 rapt attention every nerve teasJhung ;
While decent confdtnce, and modejl grace,
Diffused a lijire o'er each charming face !
Delightful tajk 1 Vexpand the human mind,
Wit a virtue, knowledge,Jentivtent refn'd —
7 o teach the df pi ring faculties to foar t
And the bright realms ojfcience to explore ;
To foim the maidenJor th' accomplijh'd wife,
And fit the bajts of a happy life ! E,
No country tinder Heaven pays more atten
tion to education than the people of Connetti
cut; there is not a village or hamlet, however
fmail, but in i? you will find a School-house and
a teacher. Nor is there any country which af
fords motives equally cogent for the acquilition
of learning. Here the people (with some few
exceptions) enjoy an equal djftribution of pro
perty, destitute of titulary dignity and devoid
of apceftral pride, they start fair for the temple
oifumi; and the son of the humble peai'ant may
one day find himfelf in the feat of the chief ma
gistrate of a sovereign frate. Farmer's Jotir.
As ignorance is the only basis on which ty
ranny can be supported, so knowledge is the only
fafeguard of civil liberty.
It is a fmgular omiflion in the politics of those
who find fault with public measures, that they
content themselves with mere efforts to alarm
the people, sometimes by innuendoes, and some
times by open abuse, without ever coming for
ward with a fpecific proportion to place the
great mass of the people in a situation to acquire
that information so necessary to enable them to
judge for themselves.—So far from this, that on
the contrary, those parts of the union
which have done the molt in favor of uni
versal education, and diffufing knowledge
among the people, are constantly stigmatized
as the abodes of aristocracy and slavery !
There cannot be a greater abuse of terms
than to denominate the man who advocates the
cause of learning and the dilTemination of know
ledge among the people, an enemy to the rights
of man. But such is the consistency of some,.
that those who have wrote and said the best
things'on this fubjedt that ever were penned or
uttered, have been held up to view as contem
ners of the people ! This inconsistency has been
carried further—the man who has developed
and e<pofed the evils of an aristocratic govern
ment a manner superior to all other writers
on theVubjeft, is depicted as the great champion
of that moll deteftabie species of government!
At a numerous and refpe&able meeting of the
citizent of New-York on Monday last, in conie-
the decision of a majority of the joint
committee appointed to canvas the votes taken at
the last elcdlion for Governor, Lieutenant Govern
or, aud Senators of that State—a number of spi
rited i£folutions were unanimously adopted rela
tive to the fubjeft, which state in substance—that
the rejection of the votes of the Freeholders of the
Counties of Otfego, Clinton and Tioga, taken at
the late ele&ion is unwarranted by the conftitu
tioji, contrary to law, and a dangerous violation of
the right of fuffiage— that the warm and grateful
thanks Df all the ele&ors in the State are due to
the ininoiity of the said committee for the patri
otifra and firmnefs displayed by them in opposing
th 6 wanton attack which has been made on the
freedom of the people—that it be recommended
to the independent electors of the fcveral counties
to enter into resolutions expreflive of their senti
ments on this very important occasion, and that
they be requcfted to unite with the the
city and county of New-York in an application
to the Legislature for a redress of the injury done
to the rights of the people. A committee of for
ty-one Citizens was alio appointed to communicate
t lie resolutions of the meeting to the different coun
ties of the State, to correspond with, frich com
mittees as may be appointed by the other counties
and to dcvife such measures as may be best calcu
lated to support the rights of the people.
As a counterpart to the above, there is a publi
cation in the New-Yoik Daily Advertifei of Tues
day, which states that the above meeting was called
by a partial invitation to the friends of liberty—
that a general invitation was published the fame
day for the friends of libeity, who wilhed to sup
port the constitution, the government and laws,
to meet at the fame place at 12 o'clock the fame
day; that the citizens accordingly assembled, but
j those who firft met agreeable to the lajl invitation,
appearing to be the mod numerous, the leaders
of the party who adopted the resolutions, appre
hending their measures would be discussed and
debated, thought it most prudent not to proceed
to bufmefs at the time and place appointed.—That
they accordingly adjourned to the portico of Tri
nity Church, where Robert Troup, Elq. mounted
in a chair in a hurried, tone of voice and with a coun
tenance Jo dijlorted as gave pain to alt who beheld him,
read oyer a set of resolutions, the contents of which
could iot be heard by the nearest bye-ftander—
that believer reversed a (ingle qucftion for tear of
a diflc.nt —that he nominated a committee of
twenty or thirty persons for some purpose or
oiher—obtained with considerable difficulty four
or five huzzas, and in icn or fifteen minutes com
plcated the business of the day.
Wednesday last arrived in this city Col. Joseph
Brandt, the celebrated Chief of the Six Nations ot
Northern Indians.
Tbe.following gentlemen were elected mem
bers of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences, at a meeting held in Boston the 29th
ult.—Sir William Hamilton, k. b. f. r. s. the
Rev. Joseph Lathrop, of V/eft-Springfield, M.
de Condorcet, of Paris, John Davis, Esq. ofPly
-1 mouth, and the Rev. John Mellen, of Barnfta
bl«.
27
The fchoonCr Sukey, of Boflon, arrived here on
Wednesday. She left Hifpaniola the 3d instant. The
profpeft of affairs in that diftrefled and almost de
foiatcd island, when this vcflVl failed, was lament
able indeed. There was not the least appearance
of the re-eltablilhment of peace, or of any succour
to the white inhabitants ; and every day exhibited
frefh scenes of devastation.
1 wenty families came passengers in the above
vcflel.
Propofalr, aie circulated in this city for publifh
-3 French Newspaper hrre, to he entitled
LE COURIER DE L'AMERIOUE
1 his paper is to be published ever y Tuetday and
Friday morning, after a fufficient number of sub-
Icrihers are procured to support the work.
Fxtrafl of a letter from Germanfown, June 16.
" Since the eftablifiiment of the society in;
this place, for promoting domestic manufac-:
tures ? poufiderable progress has been made in
the linen and woollen branches; and a great
emulation has been created to make use of
American articles of cloathing. The society is
now turning its attention to the culture of iilk.
At the last meeting of the society, the President
distributed a quantity of the eggs of the silk
worm, and it is expected that an attention to
this fubjedt will in a few years contribute to the
prosperity of our village.—One member of the
society has sown twenty bufliels of flaxleed this
year, the produce of which will be manufactur
ed in the neighbourhood."
ExtraEl from the Anjwer to Gweinor H&ncock's
speech y delivered at the opening oj the JeJfion of the
Legijlature of Majjachufetts.
" Good morals and ufeful knowledge gene
rally difFufed among the people, are an efTential
part of the broad basis of Freedom. We there
fore are deeply sensible, that we owe a li6eral
patronage to our University and public schools.
u The generous philanthropy exprefTed by
your Excellency, and the particular gratitude
to the ration, that riobly relieved our diftrefles,
command our entire approbation. We view
with peculiar pleasure the spirit of Liberty
spreading in Europe, and from its rapid diffu
-11 on, we anticipate the happy period, when the
Freedom of all nations will be eftablilhed on a
permanent balis, and the people throughout the
world, however differing in language, or com
plexion, enjoy unmolested, the " Rights oj Man."
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
The a&s of the general government, which j
the enemies of the public tranquility are indus- j
trioufly attempting to render odious to the peo
ple, are, the a<st making provision for the debt
of the United States—the ast establishing a
Bank—and the Excise Law.—Supposing it pof- I
fible to effect a change of men, is it probable that
a change of measures in refpedt to these laws
would follow ?—Wife men, if honest, would
pause before they would essentially alter the fyf- j
tems founded on those laws. The firft have pro
duced greater benefits than were anticipated;
tho' ther public expectation was high. The
short-lived concufiion which sprung from a tem
porary frenzy for speculation, was no more
chargeable on these systems than the abuse of!
the noblest faculties of man is an impeachment j
of the wisdom that formed those faculties.—
This aberration from the dictates of common |
sense has worked its own who can de
fer ibe tfye fatal consequences which would re
sult from a subversion of the exilling plans;
those refpectlng finance and revenue ?
It is of immense importance that a steady faith
in the {lability of the public counsels should be
supported. Let the people have fair play—let
them be informed as to the realcharaElcrs of ni cn,
and they will not lightly chufe those to conduct
their affairs who are given to change, aud who
will make alterations that would plunge this
country in fceries of distress which have not hi
therto been experienced.
That change of measures which is so repeat
edly adverted to in the National GaztttCf which
appears to be so ardently wished for, and is so
frequently and confidently anticipated, is no
thing less than a subversion of the funding sys
tem !—Heaven avert such an event ! It would
be laying the axe to the great pillars of our na
tional prosperity—the commerce, agriculture
and manufactures of the country—and what is
worse than all, perhaps, it would open the flood
gates of {peculation, and consign us over to all
the horrors of national bankruptcy and national
infamy. Can those persons who attempt to un
settle the public confidence in theJlabilny of the'
most important measures of government, be ei
ther good men, or good citizens ? No, they are
not.
While our country is progrefling in arts, ma
nufactures, agriculture and commerce—while
universal peace and tranquility reign through
out the union (the alarms from savages alone ex
cepted)—while the legislatures of the refpedlive
states are recognizing the bleflings of peace,
LIBERTY and fafety, under the auspices of
the general and state governments*—there are
persons so loft to the sense of gratitude to Hea
ven for these invaluable favors, as to employ
their whole time in attempts to four the pub
lic mind against the men, and again ft the mea
sures, which providence hath made the instru
ments of producing this unexanipled state of
public prosperity.
* See the speeches oj Governors, and answers o)
AJJcmblies, lately publijhed.
Is it not aftonifliing that the calumniators of
the government should continue to arrogate to
themf«ives one particle of merit as developers
of darkdnd nefarious designs against the interests
of the people, and as ferretters of iniquity, when
they have not been able to point out an indivi
dual person, or certify a flngle fa&, though re
peatedly called upon to do both, which lhould
| embolden them to such effrontery.
'Till they do Echo from her caves,
Such gen'ral Jland'rers are the worjl of knaves
Whatever the propagaters df calumriy may
fay to the contrary, there has never been a ftngle
drcumftance produced in all their writings ro
evince that those persons who for party nurpofes
it is neceflary to abuse, have ever cteviated in
the lmalJeit degree from that re3i'n>2, patriot
ism anil independence, which eftablfHied their
characters in the darkest hours America ever
knew, and ftiil rivets them to the affections of
every real friend to liberty aiid their country.
Major General \V ay ne arrived at Pittsburgh
Thursday the 14th inft. On his entering tie
town he was falujed by a difchurge of artillery
from Fort Fayette.
We are happy to find that the pvopofiil for
publifliing a paper in the French language in
this city, meets with very general upprobatioi;
we willi the undertaker success, as many obvi
ous advantages will result from the execution
of hi? plan—patticularly in facilitating the ac
quisition of a language which is so ornamental
an accompliihment—and so highly neceifarv to
be understood in our interesting connection and
intercourse with the enlightened, and now free
: nation in alliance with these States-
CANCERS.
REPEATED applications of leeches to Can
cers have been attended with great fuccef—
A man who had undergone the operation of the
knife on a Cancer in his lower lip, without be
ing cured, was advised to apply leeches—the
three firft, after fucking a considerable time,
dropped off, dead—a few days after, three more
were applied, these died like the former of the
cancerous poison—in less than a week he ap
plied three more, which, after fucking some
time, dropped off alive. This wrought a per
fect cure.
WHILE the surviving patriots who atchieved
theindependendence of their country, enjoy the
bleflings in peace and prosperity, while attention
dwells on the memory of a departed parent, fritnd,
or benefa£ror ; and while flattery, with artificial
honors, decorates the tomb of the offlueut and
great, jufticeand fent'ment forbid, that
RICHARD FULJLERTON,
should pass unnotie'd to the grave. A native of
Pennfvlvania, a citizcn of the Union, he early dis
tinguished himfelf in the cause of A merican liber
ty. In the military scene, which, during the
momentous contest, was indeed the ordeal " to
try men's fouls "he was brave, vigilant, and a&ivc.
Thtough the various gt ades o! the Peonfylvania
line, he rose with reputation ; though his ambition
aimed not at rank, as an instrument of personal
elevation, but as the means of enabling him to ad
vance that service, in which his heart was enthusi
astically warmed, and his lile cheerfully exposed.
With fiich motives the humbled talents could
afford eflVntial aid fbut tothebeft wilhes, Full
er ton united a Capacity, to promote thetriumphs
of his country. The Veterans who remember him
in the various characters of Soldier, Officer and
Infoeflor, will bear testimony of his pra£tice and
of his (kill, in discipline and ta&ics ; and tho his
name should not be enrolled with the illustrious
namesof Washington, of Greene, of Mer
cer, and Montgomery, may it never he for
gotten in the long catalogueof those who have con
tributed, to the happiness asd gloryjof Ameiica.
Public and private virtue are more allied than
common critics can perceive, or captious mifan
throdes allow ! FULLERTON, the iaithful ser
vant of the public, was in private life, a tender
husband, an inftruftive father, an indulgent m fter;
and be it here announced, the grateful plaudit of
his numerous friends, neighbors, and associates,
that
HE LIVE® WITHOUT GUILE,
AND DIED WITHOUT REPROACH!
Departed this life, in April last, at Frankfort,
Kentucky, Mrs. Sa r ah Gan o/wife of the Rev.
Mr. John Gano, formerly Pastor of the Baptist
Church in New-York, from whence he removed
with his family in the year 1788, in order to preach
the Gospel in the Western World.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents, 12.fa
Deferred, isf
Indents, 13J
Final Settlements, 2of
Half (hares Bank U. S. 64 per cent, prem.
Shares Bank North-Americ a, 25 ditto.
SHIP NEtVS.
ARRIVED at the PORT «/PHILADELPHIA,
Barque Hope, Makim, Havre-de-Grace,
Brig Patty, Fowler, Dublin,
Sophia, Price,
Hannah, £/;/}»
AElive, McKeever,
Fortune > Winter,
Sophia, P; ice,
Snotu Jane, Prance,
Sukey, Makepeace,
5/{?0j& Stf//y and Nancy, Tambrit,
Susannah, Neivbold,
blaria, Thompson,
Nancy, Lllxxood,
Dove, Brown
Sail•
>ya/ly, Drifco, *o r tJ mouth
Netcbern Packet, Ridgvcay, St. Johns
«Schooner Polly, Andaule, Port-au-Prince
Dmux Amis, Daigie, fiomingo
Polly, Keene, Charleflon,
Fox, Jamaica s
Frankliif, Cape-Francois y
Sally, Tillct, North-Carolina,
Favorite, Dolphin, Floyd, Virginia j
Adventure, Stexvatt, S*. Crow,
Ship Pennsylvania, Harding, is Jafe arrived at
Havre-de-Grace, from this port.
Arrived at Boflon, Ship Sifters, Capt. Webb, [rem
Briflolj loji from Lisbon. March 18, in /at. 48, 16,
long. 15,7 .in a gale of wind, shipped a heavy fca,
and. fuffered considerable damage therefrom. Match
26, in /at, 46, 38 Jong. 18, 48, experienced a violent
tempefl of thunder and lightning— in the midfl of which
the ship vatJlruck with the lightning, and a leak made y
which took in fix feet of water an hour, which con
tinued until the 30 th—th crib ore. away for Lisbon, where
thejhip arrived yth April t and failed from thence the
I "jh of May.
Cape-Francois,
Port-au-Prince,
Cape-Francois,
Briflof,
Cape Francois,
Swanfey,
Leogane,
Baltimore,
Antigua,
Cuadaloupe,
Alexandria.
Montjerat
»o'tf- -•FROM THE COLOMBIAN CENTINEL.
THE REQUEST.
Xf£ Lambkins that fporton yon mountain's green fide,
With a fleece that's as white as its-snow,
From your grazing O turn for a moment aiide,
And then bleat a' foft echo to woe.
Ye warblers that soar on the wings of the air,
That distend with foft rapture the throat,
Let pity induce ye to hear a fond prayer,
And O ! lend to my sorrows a note.
When Delta once fmil'd I were happy as ye
We alike'were exposed to fate :
The Jleel of detraction was aimed at me,
And malice spread fnarts for my feet.
Alike have we felt the keen pang of distress,
For the Lamb to the altar is bound,
The youug have been torn from your tender caress,
And my Delia has cruelly frown'd.
Go seek the fair Maid, ot-er till and o'er dale,
In her ear go and whisper )mr pain,
She'll certainly pity; then tell her my tale,
And O, mark if (he pities again.
But Ihould you not know her, if thousands you find,
By these tokens diftinguilh your choice,
You'll view all your innocence ftampt on her mind,
Hear your mnlic excell'd by her voice.
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT.
TANNED Sheep Skins at this day are in great
demand for a variety of ufes—bnt for want
of proper attention in taking off the wool, the
ikin is ft)any times so far injured as scarcely to
be worth dressing. The following method will
he found beneficialAs soon as the Ikin is ta
ken off the (heep's back, spread it on a horse or
cow, and in fix or eight hoars the wool will come
better than in any other way. After the wool is
off, spread the ikin on a pole, and let it hang in
the ihade (as the fun writ be very detrimental to
it) till convenient to fend it to a tanner. This
practice will render (beep skins of four times the
value they now are, and save thousands of pounds
to the country in a short time.
BOSTON, June ij.
The New-Hampfliire Bank commenced dif
eounting at Portfmonth on Monday last. The
Salem Bank will commence the ift of July.
The votes for Governor and Lieutenant-Go
vernor of this state, at the last ele<flion, were—
whole number for Governor, 16,894, of which
Mr. Hancock had 14,628. —For Lieutenant-Go
vernor, whole number, 14,742, of which Mr.
Adams had 12,609.
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHUSETTS
The attention of the Legislature linceourlaft,
has been occupifed in theconfiderationof the bill
for incorporating the new State Bank. On this
fubje<sl the debate has been very copious—and
yesterday afternoon, 011 the question, Shall this
bill have a third reading ? the numbers were—
For it, 82.
Against it, 61.
This day, at 12 o'clock, is assigned for a third
reading.
ALBANY, June 14.
The celebrated Indian, Col. Joseph Brandt,
thief warrior of the Six Nations, pafl'cd through
this city on Tuesday last, from the Westward, on
his way to Philadelphia—we flatter ourselves
this is an indication of Tome pacific measures be
ing on the tapis.
NEW-BRUNSWIC, (N.J.) June 19.
On the 6th current, a coroners inquest was
held 011 the body of a young Negro woman, late
the property of Samuel Hunt, at the Prelbyte
rian church at Maidenhead, where it had been
sent the preceding evening for interment—the
coroners inquest reports that her death was oc
casioned by a most barbarous and inhuman whip
ping, inflicfted by her said matter, which flie sur
vived but a few hours—the a<ft was committed
by liim and a connection of his by the name of
Elias Hunt, under the diredion and fuperin
•tendance of Mrs. Hunt, wife of the said mailer ;
we hear they are all confined, and no doubt but
they will have a fair and impartial tiial.
" FROM an erroneous eftiniate of the requi
sites to happiness, we often err in the application
of the means of its attainment. Without consi
dering how much more pleafingare the contem
plations of virtue upon its difappointments,than
of vice upon its successes, man has too often been
beckoned from his duty by temptation, or driven
from it by fear."
Cure jor the Rheumatism. —Soft foapfpread upon
brown paper, and applied to the part affected,
ij recommended as fpecific in this complaint.
TR.ISTITIA.
EXTRACT
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Molly, Captain Pitt, from Lissom,
A FEW pipes and quarter-casks of LISBON WIN?", far
superior in quality to what is generally imported
And a few bales of the very best CORKS,
TO BE SOLD BY
George Meade,
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
Choice three and five years old Bill of Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the.pipe or quarter-calk.
London Market MADEIRA VINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-cask.
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-cafe.
MESS BEEF, of a superior quality, and such as is fit tor
an Eaft-Indla voyage, put up in this city-
Choice fir ft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto fecbnri ' ditto <J°-
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that country.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the firft quality, and
114 Hhd<. FLAX-SEED. &c. &c.
Philadelphia, A'/jv 16, 1792
Bank of the United States,
May 8, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the third pay
ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each (hare of
the Bank of the United States, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of difcoont and deposit; and that transfers of
public on account of inch payment, may be made on the
books of the Treasury of the United States, or in the office of any
of the CommifTioners of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be deposited in the office in which the specie
proportion of such payment (ball be made.
Refolvea, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious to the firft days of July and January of each year.
By Order, JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia*
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com
miflioners of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July ne'xt, (hall produce to them the most ap
proved PLAN, if adopted by them, for a PRESIDENT'S HOUSE,
to be eretted in this Citv. The lite of the building, if the artist
will attend to it, will of course influence tbe.afpeft and outline of
his plan ; and it's dcflination will point out to him the number,
size, and diftribgtion of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of it may be detached and
erettcd for the present, with the appearance of a complete whole,
and be capable of admitting the additional pans, in future, if they
(hall be wanting. Drawings will be expe£led of the ground plats,
elevations of each front,and fe&ions through the building, in such
direction* as may be necessary to explain the internal ftru&ure;
and an ellimate of the cubic feet of brick-work compofmg the
whole mass of the walls.
March 14, 179 a.
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF a LOT in this Citv, to be designated by impartial judgrs,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party ; will be given by the Commis
sioners of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July, 1792, flhall produce to them the moil ap
proved PLAN, it adopted bv them, for a CAPITOL, to be eretted
in this City ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed nexj in merit to the one they
shall adopt . The building to be of biick f and to contain the fol
lowing apartments, to wit •
K c t* ) fufficient to ac-")
A Conference Room / commodate 3 00 these room,
A Room for the Reprefentat.ve, pcrfons each d ! IO be of
A Lobby or Antichambef to the latter J j full elcva-
A Senate Jloom of 1200 square feet area j tion.
An AntichamfTer or Lobby to the lafl J
12 Rooms of 600 fquarc feet area each, for Committee Rooms and
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the fortner.
Drawings will he expected of the ground plats, elevations of
each front, and fe&ions through the building in such di reft ions
as may be neceflary to explain the internal ftru&ure; and anefti
mate of the cubic feet of brick-work cotnpofing the whole mass
of the walls.
March 14, 1792 - if-
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing ehe
Protellant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Btunfwick,
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature of the State of New-Jerfcy,
pal Ted November 1791.
SCHEME.
Prize of 2(X*o
1000
s°o
200
t
1
5
10
3°
qo
*67 5
ißt 4 Prizes,
3,520 Blanks,
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls,
This Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a deduction ot twelve and an half per
cent, which 19 more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the most
liberal support.
The drawing will positively commence on the second Monday
in July, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of
New-Brunfwick, under the infpe&ion of Col. John Bayard, Pre
sident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city ol Am
boy; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufa&uring Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had of the following pei sons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given fccurity for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift ot the fortunate rturrtbers will he published, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
' J
N. B. Those ptizcs which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be considered as a generous
donation to the Church.
%* Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per mouth for their mpney. To accommodate
all those who may be disposed to purchase Tickets, letters direct
ed to P. Ke s non, Manager, and Poftmaftcr, at New-Brunfwick,
and enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for
warded on receipt of such letters.
New-Brunfwick, April 20, 1792
28
THE COMMISSIONERS.
THE COMMISSIONERS.
Dollais is
100
5°
80
4
16000
JOHN PARKER, ">
PETER KEENON, > Manag-rs.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very firll quality, and latest importation from Canton, »i a
New-York, by retail, at
No 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
No. 45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
THE Suhfcriher intending to confine himfelf. entirely to th e
PURCHASE AND SALE or STOCKS on COMMISSION,
Bfgs leave to offer his services to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafeto favor him wuj,
their business, may depend upon having it tranfaileil with the uu
most fidelitv and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston. or any other part of the
United Slates will be ftri£tly attended to.
M'V 2
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS;
(<W)
STATE-Street, BOSTON,
BUY and frl] every kind of the Stocks of the Uw'-d Staff f, on
Commiflion, by Private Contra#, and Public Au&ion.—.
Those gentlemen who may be plea/ed to favot them wjih their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
Boston, March, 1792. (tawgm)
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the full day of July enluing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY fruited, and bounded on the East. by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may L»e
watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an cafy expence. The upland iaysintbe
lap of about 50 acres of rich out tnar(h, from which (by sn r«»fy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate cxpence ; 30 acrcs of woodland.. A
never failing stream of water runs through this tra£l, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, al nr.
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good manfiop-houfV, gar
den, and neceflary out-buildings; an o/chard of the best kinds of
apple, peach and cherry trees, bearing ; a crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to
Peter Le Barbier Du Pl essis, Esq. No. 86, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia; Mr. Humphrey Waterman, at the Washing
ton, on the Bristol road; or to Do6tor Tomb, at Neftiamany
Ferry, Bucks County. The purchaser, paying one third of the
price down, may have a term of years to pay the residue, paying
interest. Mav 5. (ep.tf.)
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN Co,
HAVE just now opened their Lead-\Var ehouse, two doorj
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New F,a£tpry—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general afforl
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufa&ured in Europe, and at a reduced,
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrcfled to* either of the :
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
(horteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the faitt
Mines, whereconftant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, aoi
houses for their reception.
For further particularsenquire of Mcffrs. Mqses Austin & Co.
at their Fa6tory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY ftom thefubfrriber, on Monday the 9th cur.
rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROBIN, is 55 years of age,
(tout made, and bred a farmer ; oneof his thumbs much fwcHtdf
is 5 feet 6 inches high ; had on when he went away a big purple
coloured cloth coat, a short linen coat, a pair of fuftian breeches,
a ruffled ftiirt, an old beaver hat. with (hoes, stockings and bucklcs,
all good. Also, a young NEGRO BOY named SAM, is 19
years of age, stout and well made, 5 feet 9 inches high, much
marked with the small-pox ; had on when he went away, a big
blue coat, a brown ftiort coat, overalls of a mixed cloth, fulled
stockings, a new wool hat, new fyoes and buckles - Whoever
will secure said Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to the sub
scriber, (hall receive the above reward, and all reasonable charges
paid. ALEXANDER ROBERTSON.
Morris-Town, April 17,1792.
2000
ioco
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
In the Commonwealth of Majfachujetts t
A SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE of the ARTILLER.Y
m UNITED STATES oj AMERICA;
O R.,
THE YOUNG ARTILLERISTS POCKET COMPANION.
1000
1000
1000
1
1800
6700
IN THREE PARTS. #
Part x. /CONTAINING the duty and practice of light he.d
Vy artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and pra&ice of heavy artillery .
to which will be addled,''aft <fxtra& of a Treatise on the origin and
principle of Courts-Martial, wrote by an experienced Ofacer in
the line, and who did duty as Judge-Advocate in America.
Part 3. Laboratory duty ; containing a great variety of directions
for composition, and the method of making artificial s,
and the formation of ammunition for the different kinds of or
nance,
WILLIAM STEt'EKS, Esq.
An Officer in'the American Artillery through the whole of the
This wotk to be printed on good paper with a handsome tvpe.
neatly bound and lettered, in three pocket volumes, containing
upwards of one thousand pages; illustrated with a great var.ei>
of explanatory plates, executed bv able ar'.ifts.
The price to fubferibers, One Dollar each volume—to non-tuß
fcribcrs, One French Crown each volume : and those who lubicriDe
for fixfetts, Thai! have a feventh^radJ.
This work lhall be published as soon as five hundred copie
fubferibed for. . _ ■
Subscription papers will be lodged with the prtncipa
and Booksellers in the United States of America. _
""PICKETS in the NEW-BRUNSWICK LOTTERY,
JL be had a! the following placcs, viz.—Samuel 0 P..
F.rrv; at Builington, of R. Pierfon, Esq. Bor ? cn '" wn L°I n ,o '
John Van Ernbmgh; Mount Hollv, of J. Read, E f l'
of John Singer, Eiq. Amboy.of James Paiker, Esq. *~,)«
Town, of R. Gray; Powles-Hook, of Col. Smith and Judge
Hunt; Cranbnry, of William Throckmoiton SpotTwood ,
the Managers in Brunfwii k.
Stock Brokers Office,
LEONARD BLEECKES.
(ii)
PROPOSALS
late revolution, and since in the Militia,
CONDITIONS
April 27, 1792.