ofmm
I
[No. 47, of Vol. IV.]
fßOti THE AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER
No. IV.
VINDICATION OF Mr. JEFFEIISON.
Continued from the Gazette of the\sh ult..
A DISREGARD for the public cre
dit, or to life terms more corres
pondent with the idea of the writer,
a desire to extirpate it, is the remain
ing article, in the 1 ilt of charges
which have been brought forwatn oy
tiie American againll Mr. Jefferfon.
In the notice I firft took of these al
legations, this had escaped me. It
(hall however now receive the atten
tion to which it is entitled.
To support this charge,a paragraph
stated to be an extract from one of
his letters to the former Congress,
containing some communication re
lative to a proposed transfer of the
French debi, to a company of Dutch
merchants, has been submitted to the
public v: e w. Upon (his ii.igli <j,>cu
ment it has been rested, and upon
this of course mud the demonftraii
on depend.
The extra A in question lias been
repi tfemed to be as follows. " Jfthere
W .r danger of the public payments
i ■ 0c 1 )» punctual, i fubinit wlje
may not be better that the
•ius which would then arise,
:>e transferred from a court
s good offices we have f 0 much
netru, . i ilie breaits ol a private com-
P : • >$y iliis Mr. Jefferfon is ex
hni.it I,if not as the author of this
propulsion, ypt as fubmining it sin
g!y # to i licit couiitfe itiun, and prefl
mg iis adoption by Congress. Hr.d
Irom lie manner oi ihe publication,
and his comments on ii, the honor
and ci edu of the writer become
pledged, 11 <{ onlv f>r i « truth and
accuracy but likewifc for iis impar
tiality, in prefeniing before the pub
lie, a full and candid ftateiiient of
whatever was neceliary to enable
them to foi m ajult ediniate of its
Of Wiijl
merit.
To exculpate him from tins dilho
norable imputation, even the extract
furnilhed, f\tlfe and deceptive as it
is, upon a found couftruc'tion, would
have been fuSicient. The sole ques
tion it involves is, whether the (.on
grefs would consent that the French
court (houid aliign the debt vve owed
them, to a company of private mer
chants ; whether they would agree,
to pay the latter at the fame time,
•nd under the fame conditions, pre
cisely the fame sum vve owed the fot
n*Cl\ , JefFsrfon had advocated
this idea, wherein does the turpitude
con/ilt ! Debts between individuals
have this property, and alignments
of ihem are daily supported in the
courts of law and equity. I hose
fiom the public to individuals like
vile have it : indeed the greater
part, perhaps by this time the whole,
of the American debt has undeigune
this process. Upon what principle J
then refule it to thac due to France.'
Dees morality diflinguifti between
the cases ? Or were the claims of
that magnanimous nation, for part
advances, and at a period of great
diftreli, less to be regarded ? or
thole, who were to profit by thetranf
acftion, less the favorites of our go
vernment, than others who have since
infelled its ieat, and preyed upon in
dividuals-
But (he vindication of Mr. J'jffer
fon againlt ibis charge does not reft
upon the above principle. The con-
ot his lettei, even in the extrnc't
published, have been fhamefully mis
represented ; other pat ts, abloluiely
necefl'ary for ihe full conipreheniiyn
of it fupjn elled ; and the propofiiion
* TVk wr-.ter in answer to a very sensible
and well written piece under the oi'
-ARistidk; has confefled that the firit ftateraent
made bv him with 'o much confidence, was in
•ccurit'e ; but even here he still rtate> it in a
point of view which jiiftifies the remark I have
nude.
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED w* 'ui tS n ,v. , r ,,. _ ■ '
—~—— ' ' ;V ' LRUAVS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH.STREET, I'HIL ADtLI'H
• which he difcauntenanced, nnpofed
on him as his own. 1 have lately
seen an extra A, in pofleflion of a gen
tleman, who was at that time a mem
■ ber of the Congress, and whose au
thenticity cannot be questioned, which
verifies wha< I have here advanced.
The only proportion which he made
< to Congress, was to borrow the mo
ney in Holland, and discharge the
Fi encii debt. 1 his alone was his
wi<h. With tefpeift to the projetfrof
the transfer he was only the vehicle
of communication, and ac the parti
cular request of the agent of the com
pany ; hazarding transiently »nly,
m presenting it to the view of that
body, an idea which occurred, and
which mult have occurred to any o
ther pet (on, that it might be better
to have for creditors,thofe from whom
110 friendly offices had been received, I
tha.} a powerful nation who bad al>
ready-conferred, and from whom we
might hereafter have occalion to so
licit, the most important fe'rvices.
Mr. JefFerlon never fought to in-
t 1 ranee : that court- and the
whoie nation would exculpate him
trom the charge. And the imputati
on of intendingany deception on the
mercantile company, is equally falfe
and groundless. By them the con
tract was solicited of France ; and
for t he deposit of twenty millions of
livres, they were to have become in
titled to twenty-four, making there
by a clear gain of four millions,with
the high rate of intered ftipnlated
[by the loan. Our afient was only de
liiedfor its consummation. Is it to
be presumed that this company were
ignorant of the atfiual state of the
iU\Jn or Hf nur ability to pav it ? aiicL.
was it in such event his duty to in
terfere, in derogation of the charac
ter of his country, to warn them of
the danger of our probable failure ?
The person who publilhed the mu
tilated extract pollelles I presume tlie
true one. The whole was deposited
in the quarter from whence it is be
lieved to have been taken. I now
therefore call upon hiin to produce
the imire paragraph in his defence.
In contempt ofofficialduties, as here
tofore suggested and not denied, the
veil of secrecy has been torn from it.
Whatever detriment, if any, could
be futtained from the exposure of a
confidential paper, has been already
rendered. It only remains by the
publication of the truth, to fix the
itigma on him who deserves it. Let j
this likewile proceed from the fame;
party thus notably diftinguilked, in j
| gratification of private fevenge, for;
the pernicious example of a gross j
violation of the duties of a public t
ti ulb, and a glaring outrage on the :
delicacy of a foreign correspondence.
The viiionary danger which threat
ens in the minds of some men, the
public credit, has long been a theme
for copious declamation. An enqui
ry into any proposition, fandioiied
■by a certain party, however uncon
i net'ted wiili it, has been represented
[as f'eeking its deftrurtion ; and thole
who conduct it, though other wife pre
eminent ly d illiuguilhed for their ta
lents, their pairiotifm, their public
and private vittues, as having this
object solely in view. Much labor
and ingenuity have alio been bellow
ed in an effort to iinprefs the public
creditors wi.h a belief iliat 011 the
I'uccels of this enterprising faction, in
all its meafuies, their fafety depends.
Can ihefe arts long bewilder the pub
lie mind, and divert it from the true
object of enquiry ? Can any person
who difpalfionately contemplates the
obvious tendency of meafuies, withj
the known and avowed principles of
those who elpoufe them, doubt that
the end to which they are intended
to be made subservient, far furpafl'es
the honelt boundary of a ftritfl fulfill
ment of the public faith ?
Saturday, November io, 1792.
185
OF the THEATRE
at TURIN
' | ''HE form is that of an egg, cut
acrois. There are fix rows of
boxes, which are narrow in fron f,
but very commodious, and hold eight
perlons each. The king's box is in
the second row, and fronts theftage ;
it is 30 feet wide, Paris meafule, and
the back front is covered with look
i"j- g!-'s, which reflects the stage so,
th 'L thole who happen to have their
backs turned to the adlors, being ei
. ther conversing or at play, may fee
1 the performance in a miiror. These
glafles form a partition, which may
j moved whenever they choose to
: enlarge the box, there being a room
! behind. The very grear breadth of
I tbt ft<age produces a 1110 ft noble ef
>' "5. r h proxeniurci meafutes for
jt yfive Paris feet. The depth of the
jftige one hundred and five, beyondj
j \"hich they can have a paved court of!
feet. A gentle rife is contrived J
u the fides, by which may be intro
duced triumphal cars for great pro
ceflions, liorfes, &c. They can also
throw a draw-bridge across when the
ne requires it, and have a contriv
ance for letting in water, so as to pro
duce a jet d'eau of thirty feet high.
Sixty liurfes at a time have been bro't
on the stage, and have manoeuvred
with eafein representation of battles,
&c. The orchestra it so curiously
conftrmfled, as, by having a place
left underneath, which is concave
and feinicircular, to augment the
the found of the inliruments very
considerable
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT.
IF any government has a right to be obeyed
it is a republican government; the people!
only obey themfeives— each individual fubmitsi
to the whole ibciety. It is not doing fufficient
justice to republicanism to fay that the people
(übmit to authority, they in fact exercise it,
they rule their rulers. In a thouiand forms, in
practice as well as in theory, a republican na- i
tion is the real sovereign ; Americans have bled
to eflablHh this truth, and now lhalJ they deny
it ? rhe world has profited by the lefibnswhich
.;ave coil us iodear, and more than one great
nation is now reducing them to practice, fliall
we, in spite oi our own experience and ap
plause, which encourage us to proceed, tread
backward and !ole our rank among freemen ?
\ve are lead by the extraordinary nature of the
resolutions of certain persons in the back coun
ties of Pennsylvania, to aik whether in our
country these truly republican principles have
trteir authority ? Whether like ingenious
lophifms which are the fafhion of one age and
out oi vogue in the next, they are to be ad
mired in books and rejected in the ad minflra
tion of public affairs ? But the people of Ame
rica know, and it is a truth written with their
biood, that their freedom confifti in their being
governed by laws of their own enacting. It is
a folemtx truth, and to be praefciftd, or law and
equal right, and liberty would lose half their
value by losing all their obligation.—What
then fliali we fay to the resolutions ? They af
fe<X to abhor an excile law ; in this pollibly tHey
may be fin cere, and thole will mod readily be
have they are so, who suppose they equally ab
hor all law out their own will, and all govern
ment but their own pafllons. It may not be a
hard or difficult task for a few artful men in a
country where few minifterg of the gospel arc
to be found, and few ii any ichools are kept, to
persuade the uninformed that an excile or any
other law is unfriendly to their liberties. Any
law is unfriend v to the wild liberty of an indi
vidual ; but civil liberty cannot fubifift an hour
wiitjppt 'aw-—the liberty a ftromger man than I
las to knock me the headmuirbe refrained,
or I can enjoy no liberty. We think the people
oi the New-England States do not love liberty
ieis than the iettlers in the back parts of Penn
fvlvania ; yet they have been long used to an
excile, and submit to it cbearfully, as they fee
the Treasury of the United States filled with
the monies arising from the duties on their dis
tilleries. Direct taxes are by this means nfvoid
ed, and the farmer is left to pursue his impor
tant calling without interruption. But arc the
frontiers of Peunfylvania to be defended by
committees of correspondence created for the
express purpose of opposing the laws ? Are they
to be exempt from the very taxes which #aufe
the ilream of public money to continue to flow
mto that country who will not pay a far thine,
[Whole No. 569.]
>-> the L'nitcd State;' Is all the horthe* to \c
orne by those who cfc>?y t'i? Jaw i What riot"
t iignily t.'u-.t laws a<e ma 'e by r-prefent-.tivct
qually chosen, and on principles of equal jus*
ice, it they are not equally enforced : Sure;*/
t any arc to be treated with partial favor it
houUi not be the breakers of the'public peace ;
t ihould not be those who confplre ngainft law
nd liberty. They pretend to dread the arbi
rary nature of an excise act. Who believe«
hose understand well what liberty is who prac
ife it To illy . What is to be the eife<st of thele
combinations—these county meetings ? Are
:h?*y ready to r«Hft the will of t) e tiopli ex-
M the law of the land, or (hall the#' re
liance controul the government ? In a word,
bair the people of the United States be go
erned by the four western counties of Pemt
ylvania ? or, flia.ll thole counties be governed
>y the people of the United Srates ? The excifc
aw might perhaps be wanting in many provi
ions to feenre its due execution ; but it has
icver been Oicwn (and is hardly pretended) to
save any tiiinic in it more dangerous to liberty
han the impost act; yet the merchants who
übmit to the latter, have (hewn themselves
:minently*attached to liberty and good govern
nent The w*xcile law ever i.:J many pre
udices to contend against—allowances ought
:o be made for the firft unfavorable impreifions
>n men not much accuftomei to law—such al
owances were the more proper to be made, as
uen were not wanting who made it a business
o blow up the minds of the people «i<yiintl the
■>tcife. Every body knows how restless and
mprincspled men get power and influence, in
urbulent times*—-for that end they seize every
»ccafion to make the times turbulent. All
nefe allowances have been made for the oppo
ers of the law—time ha-, been allowed for their
>aflions to subside, and their prejudices to wear
'Ut > tueir outrages have been winked at, and
n condescension to them the law has been re
afed, and almost every exceptionable or ob
loxious part, as far as could cor.fift with* the
xecution of «t, has been modified. The in
rcafcd and increasing expence of an Indian
var w,:y;'\ carries tie solid wealth of the other
•aits of the United States into the wilderness,
eemed !:o be iufLcient to silence those who are
o direftlv interested ; but we behold with re
;ret and ftnpi'ife t'.iat a plan of opposition to
he law has been matured into a l vftcm. A
neeting of private persons aifqmes for the back
ounties of Pennsylvania, the authority of a
"üblic body. Any mail wha Hiall be so loft to a
enie of right and wrong as to accept of a com
uifiion from the President of the United States
o execute this law, is to be cut off from focie
y. Like Cain, he is to become on outcast, and
very man's hand is to be railed against him.
•Vhat doth all this mean ? the will of part of
tie people of a small part of L e mfylvania, is
►ppofed to the will of the Unired Stales that
s to their law— and they let ns know that their
orce also is opposed to that of the nation. Ei
her this open refinance to lawful authority is
o remain or to be suppressed. If it remain,
hen the law must be repealed, for it would be
nonftrous to colledt taxes from those who are
billing to pay, and to excuse those who defy
he power of the Union, and dare you to en
force the laws. If the laws be repealed what
iiall be lubfcituted ? such a law as a Jew indi
viduals will be jlie afed of their own free will to
'bey, or must we do as we can without any
aw of the kind ? What law for collecting an
nternaJ revenue would be fubmittedto by meu
vho pursue measures subversive of all law and
•rder, it is not easy to conje&ure. Would they
iot tar and feather a collector of a land or poll
ax? The produce of their farms ij not to be
ouched—ls this not faying government fball
xempt our persons and property from taxes,
aid they are welcome to what they can get
ithei wife. It is a farce to conjecture what re
enue law will suit them—ls it poflible to re
>ea' the law in question confillent with the pub
ic good ? The money raised by it, now, mult
•e then fought for in some other way—rtne im
loft is already great; will the farmers of Ame
ica now treed from land taxes, and as it were
eftored to the use of their hands, submit to
ave them tied again, and a second time taJke
he miliftone of direst taxation about their
ecks, becaule the frontier people of Pennfyl
ania dislike the present mode of raising mOr
ey ? It no money ought under present circinn
lances to be obtained by dry taxes, and no
nore ought to be railed by iinpoft, what other
noper and adequate revenue is to be eftablifk
td ? none is suggested. Shall the laws of the
Jnited States be opposed, and in effect set
ilide and repealed in the corner of one State ?
Perhaps they will fuffer others to pay, and may
tope money will thus be obtained for public exi
gencies. It concerns the dignity of a repub
ican to shew that the law is really supreme.
The difol>edience of the minority is a wrong
lone the majority-—Burdens are made unequal.
.The conititution of the United States and the
laws of Congress have made provision for exe«-
cuting the lawful authority, and they are no
more than a dead letter if it be not done. A
tardy support of the law is a surrender of it.
It can only embolden the oppofers—-it will ag
gravate the malady whick must be destroyed or
it will destroy.FOR THE GAZETIE OF THE UNITED STATE*,
Mr. Fen no,
WHY w s iv t the elegant French SonrW, ad
dreflVd ro Mr. Fieneau, anrt published >n
his Gazette ot W<dw fJay last, trar.flated tor the
delight ot common readtis ? 1 is unk i»d ihus to
confine 'he treatto the Jew. In the Nation's Ga
zette the many w ay expect to partake ot what is
good. And that it is good may be ps chimed
from its being in that ch'fte and free Gazette, aj
veil as from its being a lampoon on the Vicc-Pie
fjdent and the Sccrctary ot the Tfeafury. Mr.
JFieneau being t raffia tor of French was in duty
bound to translate it ; and in rhyme too, as he is
a poet. Many admirersof t"c chaste style of that
Gazettt, are ot opinion that the editor emly could
do juilice 10 the spirit ot the original, which is |
oMenJoft *n the translation trom one tongue to a
notheT— zi good fpii it fl ; « wntle it i»drawing 11.-
to anoth r t ik. The re is an elegante in the claf
ficai works ot Gvub-flrret, which was thought
brv nd the reach ol imitation in t-his country, till
the aticmpt by tin editor of that paper evinced b\
nsCuccefa that fit occafjons are lometimes wanting,
but w hen the) do occur they feld« tn tail to draw
forth genius No sooner did that gazette appeal,
than it seemed if certain bright geniuses had sud
denly found their talents wiih the opportunity t<<
display them. The translator ot Fiench, may be
fatd, therefore, to do a public wrong "by with
holding a trarflarion which he only has a talent t».
/rive, without ftiffer'rng the volatile (alt of th<
y «ich ;o tfcape. Only two reasons ocdur t«j
diifudcie him. The piece being in praise of hm
ft't, his modeOy is fparcd some blushes while it
remains in a foreign tongue ; and secondly, bein<;
hired in the department of ft ate, poflibly his em
ployer might be offended with a lampoon on two
great officers of the government But a free press,
that is to fay, a press en jaged to publish cutting,
two-edged pieces agailift men and meafuresjhoulr'
not be gagg'd and muzzled oy little scruples. An
oppoi tunity to tcl! keen truths may riot occui with
equal arfvanrafv ; and on the other hand, if the
ptcve were tratiflated, though his modesty mighi
frtficr. it is to be hoped it would not die of its
wound ; and his employer would forgive anv
rude treatment of those great officers, from a just
fenfeof the great zeal and faithful Cervices of his
clerk and editor in the caufc of liberty. Pethap?,
after ail, the many may yet hope to be favored with
a translation. C.
FROM THE MAIL.
Mr. Claypoole,
H AVINGob e vej in yonrpaperof this day,
a New-York paragraph, that the Electors
ot Vermont would mo'.t probably give a unani
mous vote for t':e re-ele<stion of George Walh
ington and John Adam*, to the office of Prefi
dci t and Vice-Pr\,';dent of the United States.
J could wish to hint to the public the reason
why the Vermont Ek-ftors will so vote, efpeci
allywith refpett to the latter gentleman j which
is, that they believe hint a true friend to the in
terefti oi the United State--, a true friend to its
conftitut on, a Sim and true republican, of ho
ne!l and independent lentiments, and a man
wl.n prelides, in his present fta>ion, with the
ftiiiSefl integrity and impartiality This opi
nion, I believe, is alto entertained by the Ver
mont representatives in both bouses of Con
gress. I know also, that every person of libe
ral and honest sentiments, who is acquainted
wit i Mr. Adams, will, and does freely acknow
ledge it to be well funded. I will add, that I
believe Mr. Adams is too honest a man to dif
lemble his political sentiments.
A'ov. j, 1792,
Domestic Articles.
COLUMBIA, (S. C.) Odtober 27.
Tncfda_y evening, as Mr. Harrow,
or Granby, was proceeding on his
lhe ftra P> of
laddie bugs, which fattened them be
hind the saddle, were cur, and the
bags stolen. He did r.ot miss rhein
till he flopped at a house nearSandy
"n» ab »ut a mile from the lpor
. e ' € ,he y were afterwards found
in the road, emptied of their con
tents amounting to upwards of Four
Hundred Pounds in gold. Mr. Har
row is untortunarel; l* on e blind, so
that the servant consequently rode
before h.m, which prevented a time
ly discovery of the tranfadtion, par-
Ucularly a » „ was „ ight when the
robbery was committed.
NORFOLK, October 24.
nil. day arrived the brifr Tulia
Est.'Sr sit
SS'z'i'"'
d»J the queen of France's birth
r e r, k^' h v' ews ot ' ,he
receiver) oil u 1 8 1 anc e was
Sr«; e 'f ' ench,li P'i''tb,,
aiely Ti,..' f re ' lo depart i'limedi-
S infrH 1 ''c Spaniards were bu
«Z^Z°d^ofneh^
to have hi' <lec ' a,a,lon of war was
r o„kyerct!£ mo,ni,,gca P i -
°N ' ° dober 2 9-
'''uclarnatioii'Tuidi 6 S"o C " lor ' b >"
J ft " diretfted ihac the
general court hold their ne*t session,
the 7th of November* in the town of
Concord ,
Thursday the 29th day of Novem
ber next, is appointed by' authority
ro be observed as a day ofThanfgiv
irig and Praise, throughout this Com
monwealth.
Thursday the 15th day of Novem
ber, is appointed as a day of public
Thanksgiving throughout the Hate
of New-Hampshire.
Mr. Schoonmaker, from New Yotx ;
Mr. Kitchell, from New Jersey; /.nd
Mr. Lee, from Virginia ; took thtir feats
this day.
Mr. Steele called the attention of the
House to the resolution pafled at the
clo/e of the last fefllon, for taking into
confidetation, the report of the commit
tee relative to the expedition under the
command of General St. Clair, ajjriu/l
the Indian tribes. He accordingly r -
ed, that the report fnould be referred to
a committee of the whole hotife, toconfi
der and report thereupon. This motion
was agreed to, and the fubjeft mads the
order of the day, for this day week.
1 lie Speaker communicated a letter
from the Treasurer of the United States,
encloling his accounts. r Fhefe were or
dered to be printed for the use of the
House.
Mr. Goodhue moved, that a committee
be appointed, to bring in a bill or bills, to
provide for the regiftef ing of fhipt or vef*
fels, and to regulate those that may be
employed in the coafling trade, and in
the fiflieries ; this motion being agreed,,
to, Mr. Goodhue, Mi. Fitzfimonn, and.
Mr. Parker, were appointed the com
mittee.
Mr. White presented a memorial from
J<>lej.h Barnes, rtfpetiing the act pro
viding for the encouragement of the ufe
ful arts ; praying for a more effs&ual pa
tent system.
A message was received from the Pie
fident of the United States, by Mi. Se
cietary Lear, communicating certain pa-
P^ r> Specified in the letter accompanying
A REPUBLICAN.
Pursuant to the order of the day, the
House resolved itfelfinto a committee of
the whole, and took into confederation the
Speech of the President of the United
States, to both Houfeg.
Mr. Lawrance in the Chair.
The Speech being read by the Clerk,
Mi. Smith (S. C.) moved a refolutionto
the following purport:
1 hat it is the opinion of this commit
tee, that a committee ought to be ap
pointed, to prepare and report a refp.a
tul addref# to the President of the United
States, in answer to his Speech to both
Houses of Congress, at the opening of
the present session ; with affuiances, that
this House will take into consideration,
J' nportant patters submitted to them.
his resolution, being reported to the
°r .5.' waa adopted ; and a committee,
confidmg of Mr. Madison, Mr. Benfo,,
pose Murra y» appointed for tnat pu -
it le ,™ e % e from the President of tie
United States was read ; it contained*
communication from the Secretaiy of
otate, enclofingan account of the appli
cation of the fund appropriated to forei'e n
purposes. Also, a letter from the juftit s
of the supreme court, inclosing a mcmori.
to Con grefß, refpefting the K reat in
convenience to which they are fubjett-
r 7- ' he °P era "on ofliie law of t l,e
Umted State, eftabßfting the judiciary
Ih!Tft ' 3 ' et,cr f,oni of
the diftnft court of the (late of North
A ng eertain le S a) and consti
tutional objections to the doty enjoined
on them, as commiffloners to examine and
mme on the cases of invi
lioners,
The next article In the me flW, tllc
Speaker the H , u f e , w *,' of ,
len« 1 VVhCICUP °"
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 7, 1792.
186
Thursday, November 8.
Mr. Heilter attended yellerday and Mr
Jacobs tills day.
Mr. Smith, of the committee on the
petition of the merchants of Charleston
S. C. brought in a report, which Itated,
that the facts therein referred to- were
well founded : the report proposes two
resolutions, to the following purport:
That a bill be brought in, to regulate
fees in the Admiralty courts of the Unit
ed States.
That the clause in the ast providing
" for the regulation of feainen in the mer
chant's service," complained of in the pe
tition, be repealed, and that a clause
providing for a different arrangement ir.
the cafe, be fubllituted.--Read and laid
on the table.
Several petitions were read and laid on
the table.
A letter was read from the Secretary of
War, communicating, pursuant to orders
from the President «f the United States,
an account of a treaty lately concluded at
Post Vincenne's, by GeneralPutnam, with
fijndry tribes'of Indians, fuuated on the
Wabafh and Illinois rivers, lately at war
with the United States. This communi
cation contained a speech of General Put
nam sent to the Wabafh tribes, a speech
to the Delawares by the Rev. Mr Heik
etwelder, and a speech of GeneralPutnam
to those tribes who have made peace.
This account was received by the Supreme
Executive yesterday, by express.
On the motion of Mr. Lee, the report
of the Secretary of the Treasury with re
fpedi to loft certificates, was referred to a
committee of the whole house, on next
Monday week.
Mr. Williamfon called the attention of
the houfc to the ast providing for more
effe&ual encouragement to ufefularts, and
to the authors of ufeful discoveries and in
ventions; and on motion of that gentleman
the petition of Joseph Barnes on the fub
jeft was referred to a feleft committee,
and Mr. Williamfon, Mr. Sturgesand Mr.
Lee wera appointed.
On motion of Mr. William Smith, that
pait of the Prefideni's speech which re
lates to the Judiciary fyllem of the Unit
ed States, was referred to a feledt com
mittee:
And Messrs. Livermore, Benfon, Kit
tera, Venable, and William Smith, were
appointed.
On motion of Mr. Fitzfimons, a com
mittee was appointed, to report a bill or
bills, providing for the regulation of
Pilots and the fuperintendance of Light
houses, Beacons, Buoys, & public Piers,
throughout the United States.—Commit
tee : Mr. Fitzfimons, Mr. Parker, Mr.
Williamfon.
Mr. Goodhue then moved that the
house (hould resume the consideration of
that part of the President's mefTage of
yelterday which was confidential: this mo
tion being acceded to, the gallery was
cleared.
Alex. Orr, Kfq. member from Kentuc
ky, appeared, was qualified and took his
feat this day.
Mr. Findlev appeared and took
his feat this day.
Purport of the fpeecn of General
Putnam, to the Tribes of Indians
who are yet hostile to the United
States :—
Brotherj,
THE great chief of the United
States sent a mellage of peace toyou ;
1 have been here four months and
n animated it, and tho' I have waited
' oil g 'or you, you are not come.—
1 have had a talk with the VVabalh
and Illinois tribes, and held a treaty
with them at Poft-Viiiceiine*, wheie
we have buried the hatchet, wiped oft
every itain ot blood, and concluded a
firm and lalling peace.
If you would hear me, it might be
for y our guod, but open your ears,
and liflen to the truth.
1 v*ifh a firm peace eftahli/hed be
tween you and the United States, that
your women, children and old men
'"ay go to reft without fear, andy our
young men attend to their hunting
and live comfortably. -
-All this can be accompllflied. The
United States do not want to i ake your
lands from you by force. They with
o tee juitiee done and peace eltab
'! Ihed.
i fend this speech by fotne of those
who were here, and ti w witnefloi
1 good intentions oi' the United
j Brothers,
Send fame of your tfir. ».
Mumi, that
Oenera] Wafljinßtpu .
let u« fhalee hands. ** t n<f
l ofl-Vinatme, Q{{ ah r W -
meflage t6 the cs t 4 ;'
1 have come from Bethlehem t©«
deavor to eltabJi/J, peace between*?
and the United |,av e
«0..g »i,l, you fi !0 „ld w«B,o7iJ
you happy. The R , eac chief of ~"
wdHre V' " ,aU ' andwi »«tl, e
a ,Ki of wonieH
Many bad thlng , have U appetlcd
*tit they were the confluencesof
war. Don't think of what has pulled
but coiile and let us talk toge,her.-I
{ ' on 1 lo,e the oppoiinnity._
Let your vv.fe men meet n, e at ,|
mouth of the Mufkingum.
Subilance of General Putnam'*
speech to the peaceful tribes, inviting
them to come to Philadelphia:
Brothers,
Let us endeavour to rellore peace
and happiness as far as is in onr pow
er Send a speech to theShawanefc
Delawares, and others, who have
hitherto flopped their ears& wii] noc
hear. I propose fending one speech
more to enSeitvor to make peace.
B rot he. s,
General Wafliingron is very defir.
ous to fee you it tlie council fire, to
meet him and the other g eat coun
lellors of the United States. If y ou
agree to fetid one or two chiefs from
each nation, I will provide for theex
pence of the journey and their fatetv.
l ake the road to t he falls of the Ohio
by land, then by water toPittiburgh,
and then by land to Philadelphia.* 5 [
wish your answer as fuon as pofiibie.
FRIDAY, Nov. 9.
Mr. Leonard piefemcd a pniiion from Jimrt
Willis, >a nvrfiid, for a ptnfi >n.
Mr. Lee prtfemed a petition from Thomii
Johnfcn. for a pension.
| On motion, the petition of Thomas Johnloti
waste erred to a'feleft committee, eonfiftmg of
Mr. W. Smith, Mr. Bourne, (R. 1.) and Mr. L.e.
The other petitions on the lame fubjeft, arid
the reptcfeiKatton of the judges of the circuit
court ol the Hate of North Car olina, were referred
> the fame committee.
A meflrfgc wat received from the P'\:fl-ler.t-<"!f
the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, commu
nicating sundry papers relative to the boundary
of the Hate of Virginia and the T rritory of the
United States South of the River Ohio.
The papers accompanying this mc-flage were
read.
Mr.Madifon,of the committee on the Prefijent't
Speech to both Houles, reported an address in an
swer thereto.—This address w«>s read,& leferred to
a committee of the whole hou/e to-morrow.
Mr. Murray called the attention of the House
to that part of tlie President's Speech, relative to
the provision in the poft-officc law lor the tranl
miftion of newspapers—Aster some introductory
remarks, he introduced a motion for a committer
to examine into the fubjed—laid on the tab.lt.
Cluiftopher Grenock, Esq. member from the
state of Kentucky, appeared, was qualified, and
took his feat.
On motion, the meflage of the Prefidentof the
United States.refpefting the boundary line between
Virginia and the territory South of the Ohio, was
refened to Messrs. Williamfon, Baud mot, and
Pag".
The consideration of the private bu'inefs recur*
ring-—the galleries were again cleared.
Philadelphia, Nov. iq.
From a Rofton paper of Nov. I.
FLYING REPORT.
Captain fftgerfol, arrived at Salem last Tues
day in 24 days from Point Petre, and informs,
that two day before he failed, a veifcl arrived
there from Fiance winch brought accounts,that
the Au&i'ian array had taken pofteffion of
—that there had been a prodigious Ta jghter ia
the city, and that the King was re-ituiated on
the Throne. In consequence of which, Captain
Ingerfol f ays, that the National Cockades were
taken out, and the White replaced it' their
room ; and that the ships in thi harbour of Point
Petre had their White again di.'played.
\_Probabi) the j-imt Jioty rccttvtd here feme t\M
/""■J
In claffingthe Kentucky Senators, Mr. Ero" »
is placed in daft No. J—t!ie imeof wl
expire next March. Mr. Edward?
No. 3 —>e will tinfeqtier.lly be in oiiice tw»
years from March, 1793-
.Authentic accounts tro.n Marfe lies inform*
t'lat oM'irif; to badnsf'; '.i tie cr. Ps rii.syiW»
t ; :crt" i > tiv 1 ".rcatctt i!a\',e;' a lea city tA grain
in that city and 'n t:>e •but:) of Fra
, nave tv< ei vc i ,>..'ci<i! iin< onth!', i'-J e l >
jt'ie lii ivi'ii t *ir .:ppe ranee
fin t'li. r.ut taey *i,l le ia.d ■**
' t" „,.r rext. At .ir.f-Tt itmajr
fb-p.0,c.-t.-.:Vttc, far tte&h e« omtmj
) C v --.-V ' ''r»v \ ; iCu!" aV'l i'vllir it
■v" t.ev-'v v-or 'h-"t;-
j m; 1 v.,* :;t , ' t ?*
L, '.ii c ::d\c.:ture. »
j tiiat lino bcncnciii! to tne cunceriierf.
WA gentleman, *rr!*ed OT Tuesday from
' Cape-Francoh, informs u-, that the colony, al
the time of his departure, which was the 2r ft
of last month, wa; 111 a more diftrafted ftatt
than it has been at any period since the rebel
lion of the negroes. Discord and confulion Jceni
to have erected their ftantlard at the Cape—
Party Ipirit is wound up to a pitch that has fel
doin been equalled, even in the most violent
and difafterous revolutions—The common and
inveterate enemy to the white people (the re
bel negroes) is nearly forgotten—and the colo
nists are totally ablorbed in animolity againll
each other.
Tuesday evening the 23d ult. a fire brokeout
in Fayetteville, North-Carolina, which raged
in fiich a tremendous manner ai to consume 61
buildings before it was checked. Col. lames
Porterfield is t ie greatest fuiierer in buildings ;
the hon e> he has loft colt 6000 pounds. The
value of the whole number of buildings burnt,
is eltimated at Thirty Thousand Pounds No
estimate can at present be made of the loss of
goods. —The mod pr»babie account of the
cause of this unfortunate event, is, that a small
negro girl of' Col. Dekeyfer's, accidentally caught
a broom-straw r.iat on fire in t ie garret with a
candle.
Thisis a severe stroke to Fayetteville, wtnch
tan only be said to i>e in its infancy: But it is
■with much fatisfaftibn obfarved, that the fuf
ferers, in general, are in goodsspits, and many
«f them already making preparations to build
•pin—and, we hope in a few months to have
the plealure of announcing to the public, that
that part of the town is completely rebuilt.
The Canal intended to unite the waters of
Snfqueharinah and Schuylkill, was begun on F'ri.
dav tlie 26th ult. on the crown level of themid
dlc ground, between the Tolpehocken andOui
tapahilla; and the canal for uniting t.ie waters
of t''e Scimjlkill and Delaware, was begun on
Tue/ilty iafi -voek, near Norriftpii Mills.
The !:ig' y improved state ofrhe arts in Eng
land, may be in some measure conjectured from
the following cirfcumftances: —There is now
publiihing in London, a splendid edition of
Siakefpeare, the fubfeription p ice is ninety
guinea;! Also, an edition of Hume's Hiftorv
of England, in live- volumes, with notes bv Dr.
Kippi -, and a continuation bv Dr. Tosvers the
fiib/cription to which is fixtv guineas 1 Tho'mp-
Seaf'ons are likewise to be publiflied by lub
fc'ri .tion, at four guineas each.
These works are to be highly embelliflied
with Kllturical and iJlaftrative print-, bv the
most eminent eftg. avers, from pictures painted
on ourpoie, by tile lirft t (Is in Eng'and.
T ie ea-ernefs with which the fubfeription
lift: to these eLgant chef d'esuvres of art' are
filled, gives jreat reason to r up, o(e, that ii: a
very fewyeai's, a!! the claTc'.i p„d efteeined
authors of England will be printed and embej
liihed in a fi-.i ilar n annet.
B api oclsimation of his Excellency Thomas
Sim lee, Esq. Governor nf the state of Mary
land, it appea's t-at Geo v ge Dent, Tohn K.
Mercer, Uriah For Th... : ' _
muei S.nitn, Gabriel C iftie, Viil'.am Hird
jn.in, and William Vans Mnrrav. Esquires, are
cholen to represent that ita:c in the third Coir
jrefs <f the United States.
Or. I ueTlay the following gentlemen were
chofcn, by the citizens of Philadelphia, as elec
tors of a President a:;d Vite-Pteiident of the
United States, viz.
William Henry, Joseph Heifter, John Boyd,
Thomas M'Kcan, Cornelius Cox, David Stew
art, George Latimer, Ruber tCo!«,nan, Henry
Millsr, Jamer Morris, Robert Jrhuiton,Thomas
Bull, John Viikius, juu. Robert Hare, and
Hugh Lloyd.
Lord Garlies, son of the Earl of Galloway
and Captain Markham, who ai rived at New!
York a few days afro from Quebec, are not only
to make a tour thro' the United States, hut in
tend, we are told, to visit some of the remote
and interior parts ol America.
Bv the schooner Fox, we have received intelli
gence from Capr-F: .mcois, as late as the <:jd ,j|t.
There hasbeen liefh difturbinccs at the Capcj
between the old troops, who are ordered
anil the nili ia of the place. The new troop*
that had arrived f., ~e time before, aie b.«n i
plealed Wi.hthe milit ; a, aud h-v ■ ; '«e.l in c.n.
set with them, in th u mutual ix, uoris to fno-
Cue the infurgenis, hu; the t:>lk li ems to he both
difficult and will he hut fl, wly accompliOud.
Ihe old troopsthat were q riti. ojn the tuwn.
slave committed gnat excillcs p'revio s to the.,
departure ; fever,,! liois liav, i. ktri pla e, , : nd (ix
or ttven ot the militia have l-lien a far, fir,• i,
thole regulars. M li of ihe pertons who fuffen d
were citizens of the firli refpt Stability.
Th, (hip Commerce, Can . R rgmm, arrive,t
here ™ rue fa a v lait lr,.m L.fb v, hi, I, ,> ri Ihc
Jrft thetothSrp le ,,-.lcr,hui . ,
o. r*ench iffaiu. It V..s fp'-ken ,! at Llb >r,,
that DI. Willn Wat ixocdl.d I k a,r d i n , to nv
another e>:i«i mem . n the Queen of P-tug-l, b,
nfr her in the Ira— a machine has been pr• -
pared for this puipoQ*.
ixtrad oj a letter dated I ouifvilfe, in Kentucky.
btr 14.
A treaty was opened on t'-e the 2 J.th of
Uft month at Pnft Vincennc, with 7 ration, r.f
Indians, viz,—Tie Fe! Rivsrs, Wcachteon*,
Pi»nkiu„iv.', PotavatV-m-, Kirl;,.pr Kiflca
Jkias, and Muftjuer.Ti';, ai d cuncl ted on the
27th; which I.at -ns have buried the hatchet,
and are now entirely broke off from the league
«Cthe <v-ir nation*.'
" There ate now the principal chiefs of these
nations, 16 in number, with three cf their wo
n,e"'.°° e ' r wa .v to CongreP:, here with me
« fr l ' They are l<» proceed from hence
up tfie Ohiolßiver to Pittsburgh and Philadel
phia."
Died, On thft 2d inft. in this city, in the 38th
year df his are, Mr. Jean Alexis Claudius, a
native of Dijon, a town of Burgundv in France.
HIS death wasoccalioned bv the fracture of his
*nll in falling from his horse in Third-street,
•tor.Pyie-ftreet, on tbe 28th ultimo. 1
V<^ n . w/vT'ln" L 7 ;f,j!ur<: of.he date of
FUI,NCH.V S.. I L"™'i
and «-*SSKr
Thomas Hcnderfon,
Richard Stockton
J ofcph Bloom field,
Ftanklin Davenport,
State of the vofr* s f,„ Federal Rcprcfontat.vcs a
be lateelrltion m New-jcrfey.
John Beaity,
Jonathan Dayton,
Abraham Cl«n k,
thus Boudiuot,
Lambert C«rd w<i !ader,
J liomas Sinnickfon,
Aaron Kitcheil,
The five firft are chofcn.
fa»».«•«-
': , :i late I'telv cast on tlie V!"
from another quarter. '
thirjl a f ter mon _
Wltn these nien oi the NATIONAL PAK
DEMON,UM, that nnlers they
checked in tneir career, they will absorb in on'e
' IS,*' 5 thejtrength, am! the labour of the
'•at,on. 1 o counteract their mad projeftsthat
have been but too fucce/sful, and to redr.fs the
1 grievances under which theNatjpn labours, von
will in a few days have recourle to that facrrj
RIGHT OF ELECTION -exer
c"e th,s valuable gift with judgment and oif.
cei nment, and bear in remembrance, that the
Old Tones of our Country in 75, ai>e becomc
the Aristocrats of 92."
A correspondent fayr—The only States from
Which accounts have been received, of the Flec
tions of Members for the third Concrete,^are,
Ncn-Hnmpftirc, Connechcut, Rhode-!<la»d/
, !i a " d ' 1111 0-1 van. a, and Georgia—and
that JHK POPLE of all those States, have' re
eltLci a great majority'of their Federal, Inde
pendent Members C ot. Ccvtir.d.
It 1 s extremely probable that, had the firft
' e not Congress, under the new constitution,
been held in this city instead of New-York, we
should at this time exhibit more republicanism
in our public formalities. Indeed, since this
city has become the feat of Federal Govern
ment a step or two towards that deiirable sim-
Pl'city, has been accomplished.
In a government like ours, the people arc not
to he imposed upon by ceremonious forms, or
outward shew, and our endeavors.ta imitate the
fopperies of European courts can only draw 011
us the ridicule of the reflecting. Gen. Adv.
A correspondent informs uS, that convcrfing
lately on the fubjefl of"Spartan simplicity, with
a gentleman in this city—the latter observed,
that if he conkl but fee the Representative; and
Senators of the United States, attending Con
gress in leathern xj-rl r---b >tK .
"'jilet oj dried beef, mouldy bread and good
ftronp; cheese, like the Dutch deputies ps old, he
fhouki then think our republican government
immortal.
N. B. Thi-. advocate for simplicity and felf
[cJeuial i.~ cortftantly arrayed in tilk and find
linen, and fares fumptuouflyeveryday.— Should
our civil rulers, wait for the force of example
to influence them tondopt the whims of certain
declaimers against luxury, they need not anti
cipate heir" obliged to wear wooden flioes and
leather jackets very soon.
The Lcgi flat lire of the state of New-York
convened last Wednesday—the Governor open
ed the leflion-with a speech, of which the. fol
lowing is an extra# :—
Gentlemen of the Senate and Ajfmbls %
The present meeting, being in pursuance of
a Jaw of the lain fefiion, authorifjng you to ap
point E'c tors of a President and Vice-President
of the United States ; this important business will
consequent]? engage your immediate attention,
elpecially as further Legifiatire prov?fi>n will
be necefiarv 011 this fubjeft, owing to the efta
i)!ifhment of a ratio of representation, different
from the one contemplated by that law.
As tnc period of theftated annual meeting
of the Legi flat lire will soon arrive, economical
conlidei ations will fuflficiently recommend the
expediency of complicating the public bufinef?
previous to an adjournment. The settlement
of our contested boundaries, the digest of our
law , the arrangement of our finances, and the
other various salutary regulations, which since
t. e coiic:ufjon of the late war havt? occupied
the attention of the Legislature, being Ivappily
actonjplifhed, your pre/ent deliberations will
neteifariiv be confined to a few objects. At
this time I . ave ti erefore only to mention to
you the neceifity of providing for the election
of ivlembc s of the House of Representatives of'
the United Slates, agreeably to our late appor-
■ umment. T e conforming our Militia efta-
Wrhment to tiie .regulations recently enacted,
Co -i c'.iy a: d the revision and amendment
of iucli of f»nr ' .w., as may from experience
have ueen found ohfeure and defective/'
The following members of the Senate of the
Unired State", convened in the Senate-Chamber
011 Monday hi ft, pursuant to adjournment, Viz. I
FROM
' Ntw-Bat! 'JJiirCi Mr Langdon, Mr. Wingate.
MdJJac/iu[etis t Mr. Strong, Mr. Cabot.
tthode ijl.nd, Mr. F<fttr.
(\»> ' Mr. Sherman, Mr. Ellfworth.
A'cw-Yoik, Mr. King.
S'ctv- jersey, Mr. Dickinfon,Mr. Rutherfurd.
Delan-aur, Mr. Read.
Virginia, Mi. Monroe.
Kentucky, Mr. Brown, Mr. Edwatds.
A'orth-Carolina, Mr. Hawkins.
South-Carolina, Mr. Izard, Mr. Butler.
Georgia, Mr. Few.
Vermont— Mr. Robinson and Mr. Bradley.
Mr. Henry from Maryland, took his feat on
Thursday,
187
the ddiverid b-i . :r ft
Ihu,p*yt a jl, t0 tht Grand lur\
Jor this city and county,
" ; Kcfbre I conclude it grirvcs me f at I
""f omc,lt Hut ■ ■■ ■- !a. *,«
. ; t ,al combination to op, rc ;c- the executiui.
• tac uws oi the .United Stats < lor raifim, a
cver.ue Bpon spirits drilled within the lame
moniuch as to canftrain the Pre,,dent to
, s P'oclamat,on, exhorting all ptriuns whoa
con «™, to refrain from ..II unlawfu
• (■.tjinationj and proceedings whatloevcr.hav
»£ »or oujcfl, or tending to obttiua the opera
lun of the fa id laws; a,id charging and requir
n ® Courts, niagilirates and oflitc:, whom i
nay concern, to exert tiieir lawful power -ii
*"•s'* to justice the iiifraftors the, and t,
ecure obedience thereto; and enjoini;!.* ui
Jer.ons vhomlbever, as the/tender the we I
life of their country, the jultand due authont
>} government, and the pre orvat.on of'the pub
ic peace to be aiding and afGiting therein ac
sordmg to law.
>• "u/, he Gover,,or ' anx >ous for a ftrift an,
faithful attention to our federal obligation an,
convinced that the prosperity of the llates indi
vitally .lepends on the prosperity of the union
has been plea,fed, by a letter dire; ted to t: e jui
tices of the fupreta« court, on the sth at las
mo 10 request that we will take every of:,
cinl opportunity tp inculcate the indiipen.abl,
duvy of obedience to the arts of Congress; an,
particularly, as far as our jurifclittion extends
to charge the Grand-Juries to enquire into an,
present all oftencw of the nature, to which th
Preficlent's proclamation refers.
Aaron D. Woodruff,
J'?hn Van CU-.ivc, notl
Samuel Dick, Elij',s.
7028
57H
5°3S
46v 6
43 '5
3704
3<j66
It is I.ra:ige that a ])eople but jtjft rescued
from the galling yoke of foreign bondage, hav
mgjuft got rid oi a delpotic government, will
not I'ulimit to orje free and equal. What avails
itto be exempt from the chains of a prccari
-6m tvranny,' if men still continue fjaves to the
<-i '-iie of their own corrupt nature? The
Jnuillf ft tax, though abfblutely neceliary for the
public lafety against a barbarous lavage enemy,
and tending alf'o to promote industry, and to re
train excess in the u'e of an intoxicating and
deftruflive (pirit, makes them reftiefs and im-
latierir. They quarrel wiih a constitution and'
government, purclialed at the expence of much
blood and treasure, and framed by themfelvc , ;
'h'-'y deipife the rulers of their own choice, and
trample on laws of their own making, What
occofion is there for such violent and unwar
rantable proceedings ? If any law fliall bear
heavy oil the citizens, or any class of them, why
dp they not represent the cafe to the proper le
gillature, composed of persons eletfled by them
lelves ? Ti the complaint is founded in reason,
the ' may be sure of redrel's. The difeale mult
be .nown belore the remedy can be applied. I
Men who re v J order, tranquility and peace; :
men who love their country, will use all honest I
jneafls to promote them : They will endeavor
to enlighten the ignorant, to calm the paifions
of the violent,and by their advice, influence and
rr ' '/"V 1 to t!.«.
{aws ) f6r where the laws end, there tyranny
begins. Any government ispreferable to none,
a tyranny to an anarchy.
" If any of the offences referred to in the pro
clamation of the Pre lid en t, (hall have been com
mitted within this city or county, and have or
faall come to your knowledge, I reft assured
you wiil prcfent the offender to the court for
trial and for punishment.'*'
Yesterday at II o'clock the Senate of the
United States waited on the Prciident at his
own houfe,with the following arldrels in answer
to his Speech to both Houses.
To the Prejident of the United States.
ACCEPT, Sir, our grateful acknowledge
ments for your address at the opening of the
prefect feji.on. We participate with you in
the fatisfa&ion ariiing from the continuance of
the general profpeiity of the nation ; bur it ii
not Without the most sincere concern that we
are informed, that the reiterated efforts which
have been mnde to eftablilh peace with the hos
tile Indians have hitherto failed to accomplish
; thnt defied obje& : hoping that the measures
still dependiag may prove more fiiccelsful than
those which have preceded them, we ihall ne
ve rthelefs concur in every necelTary prepara
t'on for the alternative ; and fhoirld the In
dians on either fide of the Ohio persist in their
hoftilitie?, fidelity to the Union, as well as affec
tion for our fellow-citizen son the frontiers,'wiM
insure our decided co-operation in every mea
sure, which shall be deemed requisite for tijeir i
protection and fafety.
At the fame time that we avow the obliga
tion of the government to afford its prote&ion
to every part of the Union—we cannot refrain
f rom exprefling our regret that even a Iniall
portion of our fellow citizens in any quarter or
it, fhouid have combined to oppose the opera
tion of the law for the collection of duties on
spirits diltilled within the United States; a law
| repeatedly famflioned by the authority of the
[ nation, and at this juncture materially con
nected with the fafety and prote&ion of those
who oppose it—Should tHemeans already adopt
ed, fail in securing obedience to this Jaw, Arch
further measures as may be thought neceiiary
to carry the fame into complete operation, can
not fail to receive the approbation of the legif-
Jature, and the support of every patriotic ci-
tizen.
It yie'ds us particular pleasure to learn that
the produftivenefs of the revenue tf the pre
'ent year, will probably fupefcede the neeeffity
of any additional tax for the service of the
next. •
The o'ganization of the government of the
State of Kentucky being an event peculiarly
to & part oi our fellow-citizen?, and
conducive to the general order, affords us par
ticular fatisfaftion.
We are happy to learn that the high state of
our credit abroad has beenevinced by the terms
on which the new loans have been negotiated.
In the course of the feilion shall proceed
to taJce into conlidcratiou the leyeial objects
whith you have been pleaiferf to recommend to
our attention; and keeping i« view- the im
poi tance of union and liability in the vuUic
councils, we :.,al! labor to lender our decisions
ct ' ' !CIV * to 1 ie ai u iMjv.ncJi of
country.
\Ve repeat with pleasure our alTurances of
cont.-ei.ee in adminiflraiion, a our ar •
-nt with, t..»t your unabated real for the pub
He good, may be rewarded by tl e durable prof
t:'e nati ™> d <-<i eveiy ingredient of
personal happuiefs.
JOHN LANGDON, P.rjj.-r.f,
pn< l.iri, rc c'j l!.e !h.n.,t.
Jo which the Prefluent made t.c foi owini
reply.
i DERIVE flinch pjeafnre, Gentlemen, from
your very iaiisfaflory addiels. 7he renewal
all u ran ex.s of your confidence 111 my adminiftia
tion, and the expreli on of vour with for niv
personal happuicis, claim and receive my p..,"-
ticuiai' acknowledgment?— In my futu .. j; _
deavorfor the public welfare; to which i,, du
ty may call me, I fliall not cea c to count upon
tne firm, enlightened and patriotic support of
the Senate.
One of the fir ft objetf* which will
Congress %viil
one per ceut! on all
A'i.encanmorts, and half per cent
on exporflQpc your continent. This
mealure has been taken to counter
balance the prohibition lately made
on your fide,of Holland-gin in cases ;
which article was one of the few we
weie able to furnilh you with, in re
turn for f 0 many cargoes of tobacco,
rlce j « c - we do annually receive from
North-America. As, by this innova
tion, your trade is to fuffer much
more than ours, your rulers nAy, of
course, be convinced of jjie truth of
that French adage, « Arop em.
baraiie, inal etreint."
The lollowinjr persons are appointed by the
Sute of CWflioi., cleilo.s of Prefideht and
Vici -Prefidi nt ot ihe Unit.d Sates;
His Excellency Samuel Humingion—tbe Hon.
Oliver Wolcott, Thomas Seymour, Marvin Wait,
John Davenport, Dav.d Auft.n, Thoma« Grofve,
ner, Eln»h iy!vc,Giit e rt,Efijrs,
COMMUINICATION.
At the present crifs the old enemies of the
..onor andhappinefsofoiircountryareunu.'uat'.y
. alert. When they found that the people were
. too wife to be influenced by their counsel and
. advice in rejefling the confutation ; they then
/aid, that there was flill one way leit to effect
their purpole—and that was to render the aa
minijlration of the government odious—ln pur
suance of their object they have employed the
press, and secret emifTaries in aJmoii -.ill parts
of ti.e union to mfaprelent, deceive and de
fume ; they began their artifices with the fiift
operations of the government—but their at
tacks were principally confined to general flan
ders, and were made occafionaUy.—lt is now
ahout one year since the government and its
measures have drawn forth the concentred force
of the whole part}.—From the "executive
cliici down through the subordinate depart
ments with a very few exceptions, a continued
torrent of innuendoes, fianders and falfehootis
has illued from its proper fourcc, through its
appointed medium. There are various oltenfi
ble objects of complaint which form the topics
ot declamation to the inveterate esemies of
our union and government; the Jvndivg f .flctn,
the e\t.je law, and the Bank compose the principal
tuc but it would be intuiting to the plaincft
understand :ng t and wholly undervaluing the
Jiugment and penetiation of the party, to sup-
P u ' e ' 'j at their opposition to these measures are
any thing more than a feint, a covert to their
mam design, that of subverting the constitution.
i hose measures are f'o obviously the result of
t atjiiitiee and gbod faith on which alone any
ccnmtutioD or form of government can befup
ported, that thole who think lightly of public
credit or of the means of maintaining it, are in
'tart enemies to any permanent and eife&i\e
government whatever.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT vf PHILADELPHIA.
Schr. Suky, Defhong, North-Carolina
Sloop Hope, Hll (fey, Nantucket
Sally, Ben thai), St. Mary's (Georgia)
Jatbu, Taylor, Bermuda
PRICE OF STOCKS,
6 per Cer.rs,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Foil (bares Bank U. S. 49
i go
Unfunded debt of ih« U.S. ai,J6 on the principal.
And on the lntereft up to lit Jan. 1788, 1 jj.
JDVE RTISEMENT.
fcT" The next Number aj this Gazette
-mill be fublijhedat No. 34, North fifth-.
Strut, corner of North-Alley— to which
flace the Office of the Editor •will'then be
removed.
G. WASHINGTON.
is/6
>4/«
per cent, prcmGeneral Poll-Office.
»llLAb*leHlA,sept. 10,17911.
PROPOSALS will be received at this Office
until the fifteenth day of November next, in
clufirely, for carrying the Mails of the
Statea on the following Post Roads, from the fiift
day of Janoaty next, until the firlt day of June,
J'lOA.
ii,MA«SACMVsiTTJ and Siw.H»Mrs»i«i.
T. From IS'iptijfcl to Portland in the d.ttrittot
Maim : The mail to leave Wilcallet every Tucfday
bv si* o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Port
land the next day by one io the » f ' t rn "°" Re "
turnine,K> leave Portland every Thursday by fix
in the morning, and arrive at Wifcaffet the next
dav bvone in the as ternoon.
. Fiom PortUni to Port/mouth: The mail to
leave Pnitland every 'Mo.id.y and Thursday by
fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Ports
mouth e»ery Tuesday and Friday by ten.in the
forenoon :—Returning, to leave Portsmouth evt
rv Tuesday and r ' id 'y " one m ,he aft " noon '
and ynve at Portland on Wednesday and Satur
day bv fix in the evening.
o From I'ortfmuth to B0JI01: From November
firfl to May full, the mail to leave Portfinouth
every Tuesday and Friday, at two o'clock in the
af'ernnoon, and arme at Boft.n on Wcdnefdav
And Saturday by fix ill the evening : —Returning,
to leave Boston every Monday and Thuitdiy, by
fix in the morning, and arnvr at Ponfmouth 011
Tuesday and FridaV by ten in the forenoon And
from May firft 10 November fiift, the mailjc leave
Poitfmotith every Tuesday, Thurfi' -
day. by and >Bolto>
the fame ey' burning
tA leave da >' 3,1
Friday,by four in t' * inve
Portsmouth 48p
In MwACatt
4. From
fidd/etoicn, and New-York : Kror
November full to May arfil to leave 80l
en every Mfpi*y and Thurfd»«at one o'clocl
n the afternoon ; and arrive atlftifrYork ever;
Saturday ants Wrdnefday (the from it
departure) by ten in the forenoon ; Returning, t<
leave New-York every Monday and Thursday
at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Bos
ton every Sa'urday and Wcdnefday, by ten in the
forenoon : And from May fit ft to November firft,
the mail to leave Boston every Monday, Wednes
day and Fiiday, by three o'clock in the morning,
and arrive at New-Yolk every Thuifday, Satur.
day and Tuesday (the fourth day from in de
parture) by eleven in the forenoon : Returning, to
leave NeWtYork every Monday, Wednefdayand
Friday, fcy one o'clock in the afternoon, and ar
rive at Bod on every Thursday, Saturday and
Tuesday, by Mfe the evening.
In N*w-Jersey and Pinnsyl-
VAN I A
j. Between Ntw-York, (by Newark and Eliza
beths wn) and Philadelphia, every day in the week,
Sunday excepted : The mails to leave New-York
at noon, and Philadelphia at one o'clock in the
afternoon; and arrive at Philadelphia and New-
York refpe£tively, the next day after their de
pirtqre, by ten in the forenoon ; excepting the
mails of Saturday, which are 10 arrive at the fame
hour on Monday.
In Pennsylvania and Mary land,
6. From Philadelphia to Baltimore: The mail to
leave Philadelphia every Monday, Wednefda>
and Friday, at noon, and arrive at Baltimore each
succeeding day by noon : Returning, to leave
Baltimore every Monday, Wednesday and Friday,
by four o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Phi
ladelphia each succeeding day by eleven in the
forenoon.
7. From Baltimore to Alexandria: The mail to
leave Baltimore every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turday, at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive
at Alexandria each succeeding day by eight in the
raorning: Returning, to leave Alexandria every 1
Monday, Wednesday and Friday by four o'clock
in the afternoon, and arrive at Baltimore on Tues
day, Thursday and Saturday by ten in the fore
noon.
In Virginia
ft. From Alexandria to Richmond, Peterfourg, Sw/"-
and Port/mouth : The mail to leave A'exan
dria evpiy Monday, Wednesday and Fridav, at
nine o'clock in the morning* j*vd arrive at Rich
mond every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,
by fix !n the evening ; at Pe eifburg, every Wed
nefdav, Friday and Monday at ten in the forenoon ;
at Suffolk everv Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday
\ fix in the afternoon ; and at Portsmouth every
Friday, Monday and Wednesday, by ten in the
forenoon : Returning, to leave Portsmouth the
fame F-idav, Monday and Wtdncfday, at one
o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Suffolk the
fame days by frven in the evening ; and a r Peterf
burgthe n xt Monday, Wednefrtavand Fi:d.iv by
eleven t„ the : loienoon ; leave PeterfWg the fame
days at two in the afternoon, and arrive at Rich
mond the fame davs by fix in ihe evening : !eav<
Richm >nd on Tuesday, Thurfdiy and Saturday
by tour in the morn-ng, and anive at Alexrodtia
the next Wednesday, Fi iday and Monday, by three
in the afternoon. '* '
9 From Richmond, l-y WHliamlburg, York-Town
and Hampton, to Norjo/i. The mail to leave Rut,
Tror.d eytry Monday, Wr-dnefdav and #~dav, bv
lour O clock m the in.nnin ;, and atrive at Norfolk
on each fuccecding day, by five in the afternoon •
Returning, to leave Norfolk every Wednesday,
Friday and Monday, by fix in the morning, Jd
.t evVning: ChmODd "< h <%■ by*, in
In VIRr, IN! ,ni N'or th-Ca holi na
Smr,fi f /a, toFavtt,v;tU. The mail to leave Pe,. rf
burgev.ry Fndlay, atoneo'clock in the afternoon"
the next Monday, bv'
tight,n the Returning, to leave fa^u £
vii.c eveiy TiifMay, l,y four in tin- morning' and
Il North Carolina WGIORCIA.
IWe rand Fj >''"f v,llc - b V Cheraw Court
aJ. Q . r "' C , olum ? u and Camb.idge, to
Tuffda ■bv 1 "' a 1° IC3VC Fa Vcifev,lle every
the n.xt'da'v bV" C , motnln ß- >«ch Camden
• t Aa«ufta th " y V" ,he '""noon, and arrive
at Augusta the next Saturday by noon ■ seturn
1 gto leave Auguila every Thursday, at five in the
- ininj, arrive at Camden the next Sunday by
five in the morning, sod at #ayeltevi!le the nexti
Monday, by eight m the evening. !
i 12. From Augufl* tc Savannah. The mail 10
leave Auguftievw'y Saturday,'at one o'clock in the
'afternoon, and arfive at Savanuah the next Mon
day morning by t'cn : Returning, to leave Savan
uah every Mouflay, at two o'clock inihe aher
nooii, and arrive at Augulla the next Wcdnefoay,
by five in the afternoon.
13 From Camden to Staicfburg. The mail to
Iravc Camden every Tourlday by four in the
morning, and arrive at Stateiburg by eight : R<«|
turning, 10 leave State fburg every Saturday, at two
in the afternoon, and artive at Camden by fix.
In Massachusetts, Rhode-Island and Con-
14. From Bojion to Providence. The mail to j
leave Boftou every Monday and Thuilday, by fix
in ihe morning, and arrive the farm days at Pro
vidence, by five in the afternoon : Returning, to
leave Providencetvery Wednesday and Saturday,
by fix in the morning, and arrive the fame days
at Bolton, by five in the afternoon.
Peifons oftering piopolals for this contraß,
are desired also to Hate ihe terms on which they
will carry the mail between liofton and Provi
dence, three limes a week, and every day in the
week (Sunday exec pted ) in cale a fta&e waggon
(hould run so often between those two placcs.
From Providence, by Norwich, to Hartford.
The mail to leave Providence every Tuesday and
Friday, by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive
[at Norwich the fame days, and at Hartford on
Wednesday and Saturday, by five in th« afternoon :
Returning, to leave Hartford every Monday and
Thuilday, at seven in the morning, arrive at Nor
wich the fame days, and at Providence on Tuef
| day and Friday, by five in the afternoon.
Pei f° n s offering proposals for this contrast,
are also delired to state the terms on which they
will carry the mail between Piovidence and Hart
lord three times a week, if a stage waggon should
run so often between those two places.
<! evening,
iCUT and
16 From New-London to Newport, thence by
Bnjiol and Warren 10 Providence, thence by Creen.
wick to Newport, and from Newport to New-London.
The mail to leave New-London every Tuesday,
at two in the afternoon, and arrive at Newport the
next day by fix in the evening ; leave Newport
every Frday at eight in the morning, and arrive
at Providence the fame day by fix in the evening ;
jeavc Providence on Saturday at eight in the morn
ing, and patting through Greenwich, arrive at
Newport the fame day by fix in the evening ; leave
Newport the next Monday at eight in the morn
ing, and arrive at New-London the next day by
ten in the forenoon.
17. From New-Haven to New-London : The mail
to leave New-Haven every Monday, at eight in
Ihe morning, and arrive at New-London every
Tuesday by ten in the forenoon : — Returning, to
leave New-London every Tuesday ai two o'clock
m the afternoon, and arrive at New-Haven every
Wednesday afternoon by fix.
18. From Middletown to New-London. The mail
to leave Middletown, tiom firft to May;
fiift, every Thursday morning, and from May to :
November, every Friday morning, by eight
o'clock ; and arrive at New-London by lix in the
evening of the day of us departure : Returning,
to Irave New-London each next fucceedmg day by,
eight in the morning, and arrive at Middletown,
by fix in the evening
ig. Between the city of New-York (by Kings
bridge, Pc/ghkeepfie, and the city of Hudson) and
Albany. The carriers, with the mails, to leave
New-Yoi k and Albany every Monday and Tburf
day, by four in the morning, meet, and return to
each place on Wednesday and Saturday, by fix iu
the evening.
20. From Philadelphia y by Lancajler, York-town,
Carlifie, Shippen/burg, Ckdmberjburg, Bedford and
Green/burg io Pittfburg. The mail to leave Phila
delphia every Saturday at noon, and arrive at pittf
burg the next Friday by noon ; remain there no:
!e!s than four, nor more than fix hours, and retun
to Philadelphia the following Friday by noon.
I n the State oj Delaware.
si. From Wilmington, by New-Cajlle, Zantwcll'i
Bridge, a-,d Duck Creek, to Dover. The mail t<
leave Wilmington every Monday afternoon, b\
five o'clock (or as soon as the mail from Philadel
phia is received) and arrive at Dover by five in th<
evening of Tuesday : Returning, to leave Dove
very Wednesday morning by five o'clock, auc
arrive at Wilmington by seven in the evening oi
the fame day.
In Delaware and Mary land.
22. From Christiana Bridge, by Middletown,
Warwick and George-town Cross-Roads, to Ches
ter-town, and thence to Eafton. The mail to
leave Christiana Bridge every Monday afternoon,
by fix o'clock (or as soon as the mail from Phila
delphia is received) and arrive at Eafton by fix in
the evening of Tuesday : Returning, to leave Eaf
ton every Wed ne id ay morning by five o'clock,
and arrive at Chriftwna Bridge in the eveung of
tnc fame day, by eight o'clock.
63 Perfoni offering proposals for carrying
this mail,aredefired to state the terms on wh.eh
they w.ll carry ii trom May firft to Novembc. fit ft,
by leaving Philadelphia every Monday at half naft
nine, A. M. and reaching Eafton the next day' by
„, Ur ' P ' rcluri ""g- Eafton every
Wedr." day by four, A. M. and arrive at Philadel
phia 111.- next day by noon: And perform the
fame tour, during the other half of the year be
tween half pall nine o'clock of every Monday' and
noon of the next Saturday. And also their term,
or carrying an additional mail between Philadel
phia and Chelle, town, leaving Philadelphia every
Wednesday ana Friday at half oast nine, A. M
and returning the fourth day after by noon.
23. From Baltimore to Annapolis. The mail to
leave Baltimore every Monday and Friday, at
rame j'l! m ° rn '"S' an <» ""ve at Annapolis the
l " A ' ys l '>\ fivc 'he afternoon : Returning, to
e/h fnT * CVCry T r Hay and Saturday
eight in the morning, and arrive at Baltimore the
fame day, by five in the afternoon.
hVt *CIN ! A No* th-Cakoli N ,
In?*' fy"'. 6 "! l ''*' I,v Phmoutli,ll'a';ht*r
» and ,\ m l rr i , Wilmington : The mad tc a!e
SulFo.k every UVdnefdav a, tour o'clock m 'he
iurdav" S h ao r'"" Ve " W ' , ' n, "^ l ° 11 'he t„ xt Sa
by 'fix' 1 q't he'e v c "i'n g. 3 ' """
KECTICOT
In New-York.
In Pennsyjlvani a,
188
In iCor th-Caroli n a
95. From Halijdx by BlountjvUU, Wiflimjlcwn,
and Daiicys, 10 P/ymouih, once in two weeks!—Thi
mail to leave Halifax every other Monday by five
o'clock in the morning, and arrive at
the next day by fix in the evening : Returning, t<
leave Plymouth the next Thursday by five in th
morning, and arrive at Haiiiax on Friday by five
in the evening.
26. From Wilmington to Faycttevillt: The mail
to leave Wilmington every Sunday, at tour in the
morning,and arrive the next day at Fayetteviil.
by five in the afternoon : Returning, leave Fay
eitcville every Tueiday, by four in the morning,
and arrive at Wilmington the next day by five 111
the afternoon.
Jn Virginia
Proposals will be received at the Pofl-Office j
rn Richmond, until the 101 h day of November ncxi
mclufively, tor carrying the mail of the United
States from Richmond 10 Staunton, —from the 15' h
aay ot the fame month, until ihc firft day of June
1794. The mail to leave Richmond every Mon.
day by fix in the morning, and arrive at Staunton
the next Wednesday by fix in the evening: Re
turning, leave Staunton every Thursday at ten in
Ihe forenoon, and arrive at Richmond the next
Saturday by seven in the evening.
The persons offering proposals for carry
ing this mail, are desired to Hate the terms on
which they will carry it, and leave Richmond eve
ry Wednefhav at noon, and arrive at Staunton the
next Saturday by three in the afternoon : Return
ing, leave Staunton every Monday at leven in «he
morning, and arrive at Richmond the next W d
nefday by ten in the for* noon.
Note i. If during the continuance of the con
tra&c here proposed, any other times of arrival
and departure of the mails should become necef
farv, to prefrrve a proper connexion with other
mails, the contractors are to conform to any ar
rangement which for that purpose fha 11 be made
by the Post-Master General, such arrangement not
leflening the number of hours above allowed for
carrying the mails refpe&ivcly, without their con
sent.
2. A convenient time net fefs than ten
nor exceeding hall an hour,for opening and doling
a mail is to be allowed at each Poft-Office,at which
the time of its arrival and departure is not herein
fpecified.
3. For every half hour's delay (unavoidable
accidents excepted) in arilving after the times pre
scribed in any contrast, the contractor to forfeit
one dollar ; and for the non-performance of a trip,
double the sum which the value of one trip (hall
bear to the value of the whole number of trips to
be performed.
4 The mail may be carried on any of the post
roads herein described, either in stage waggon* or
on horses : but when the state of the roads pie
veuts travelling in waggons with the necessary ex
pedition, the mails are to be carried on horses.—
Every mail-stage mult have in it a box in which
the mail is invariably to be carried, under lock
and key.
5. News-papers, as well as letters, are to be
fern in the mails : and if any contra&or would
wish to be authorized to carry news-papers, othei
than those conveyed in the mail (agreeably to the
22d fed ion of the poft-office law) he mufi, in his
propofats, state the refpe£Vive sums for which he
will carrv the mails with and without the emolu
ments which may anfe from such separate carriage
of news-papers.
NEW POST ROADS,
In New-York, Massachusetts & Vermont.
An extension ot the Poll roads having been de
sired, from (onnojerharrietoPVhifes-town, and thence
.to Kanandaiqua, in the state of New-York ; from
Stockbridge to Bennington, in the ftatesof M;>ifachu
fetts and Vermont ; and Rutland to Windjor,
and Rutland to Fairhavcn, in Vermont : PropoUls
'or carrying mails on those routs, (at the expense
of the contra&ors) will be r- ceived at the General
Poft-Office, until the fifteenth day of November
next inclusively.— Persons offering such proposals,
must state the days and hours when they will re
eivc and deliver the mails at each place here
mentioned, and the length of time (which cannot
exceed eight years) for which they will contrail.
The contra&ors, refpeltively, will have the rx
lufive privilege of carrying letters and packets on
'hefe roads, for hire ; and be authorized to re
ceive, to their own ule, all the poltngc-s which shall
arise on letters, packets and newspapers by them
carried, at the rates cftablifhcd by law : but must
carry, free of postage, such letters and packets *s
by law are, or shall be declared_/Wtf.
For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in delivering a mail, after the time a
greed on, the contra&or to forfeit one dollar;!
arid for the non-performance of a trip, one dollar j
foreveiy ten miles distance, as far as the failure!
extends.
The persons whom the contra&ors shall desig
nate for Postmasters, on these routes, — previous to
their afti up as such, must be approved by the Post-
Mafler General, and take tVie oaths required by
law. They are to agree for iht-ir compensations
with the contradlors, to whom alone they are to
account for all the postages they shall receive.
1 he fame oaths must be taken by the contractors
and their riders who carry the mails.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Post-Master-Gener A L
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON & SOUCHONG,
Of the very firft quality, and lat eft importation
from Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Che fn 111 and Market Streets.
N. B. A few Boxes of the above HYSON for fate.
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
The Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to offer
his feivices to hisiriends and others, in the line
of a Stock broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with their business, may depend upon
having it tranfa&ed with the utmoll fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, orany other
oart of the United States wii 1 be ftriftly attend
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKPR.
(t.f.)
Ma y 2
Hymn. Book.
Universal
To be Sold by THOMASbOBa3W* ,„d ~i
Bookfellm i„ olfce
A Collra.on of PSALMS, HYMNS ..J c»
RITUAL SONGS ; felled
Authors, pubjiffaert by Order ,7r
vrtition holding ihe Doctrine „f the Sal. .
•ill Men, met in PhiUfclphi., M.,"' on of
Price ol j (Ingle bonk, bound,..Bth, of j
w A„s; llowince ,o those * h °
(""'■)
Grand Family Bible.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUXSC« IPTI 0 X
An ELEGANT EDU lON oj tie''
SACRED SCRIPTURES
Of the OLD and MEW TESTAMENTS, „i, h ,| w
APOCR Y PHA,
Bn a very large and beantiful new Tyft, tnij^e
THE great importance of .he Holy Scripture!
interesting to every individual; the divine exccU
lenceofiu and precepts, and the b< amy
and fublimitv of its passages, have so long ™de i.
a capital ohjeft of attention, as to preclude occa
sion or opportunity for eulogium.
The p.eiv or emerprize of individuals has pre.
fented this invaluable hook to the public in a VJ .
rirtv of forms ; in some editions it has been highly
enibclltlhcd wiih superb engravings, winch h, (c
greatly enhanced its price; in others it hai been
I accompanied with voluminous commentaries
1 which necessarily encreafcd the size; while a va~
; riety of plain cheapcopies have generally difFufcd
|ihe knowledge of the Scripiure, and made the
I purchase easy to every class.
Without wifiling in the smallest degree to Itffrn
the merits of the various editions, whether p/ain
or ornamen.'ed, *vhich the public aie already i«
potfeflion of, it is pertinent, to remark, that very
many readers of talk and judgment have expre(Ted
a wi(h for a Family Rible unencumbered with ad
ditions. There still appeais room for another*
edition on a beautiful new type, superior in fizc
and elegance to any bible that has yet hem printed
in the Englifti language, and which, leaving the
adventitious circumftanres of oinament or com
ment, TW»y exhibit the Oracles oj God in their m
ti\e limplicity. «
SPECIMEN OF THE TYPE.
5 And God said,
d Let there be light: and
there was light.
With refpe&ful fubmiflion to the judgment and
candour of the public, the following proposals arc
offered :
I. The work (liall be printed with thegreatcft
fidelity and attention to corre&nefs both in the
text and marginal referenres, on a fuperfine Paper
made on purpol'e, with an elegant new Type cast
for the work of the fi*e of the above Specimen.
11. The work will be comprised in twenty
number?, making two elegant volumes in FoHo;
10 be furnifhed to fubfci ibers at one dollar each
number. To prevent any complaints of want of
pun&uality, no part of the work wll be delivered
unleT paid for.
111. The fir ft number, containing sixty folio
pages, elegantly printed, will be furnifhed on the
firft Saturday of July next, when fnbfcribers are
to pay the price of the firft and second numbers,
and the price of one number to be always in ad
vance till the work is completed. The subsequent
numbers to be publtfhed regularly on the firft Sa
turday of cach succeeding month, till the who)#
is finifhed.
(J3T Subscriptions will be received in Philadel
phia by the Publiftiers, Thomas Domon, No. 41,
SouthSecond-ftreet, and Joh n Pa r ker, No. »59»
North Second-street ; arid by all the Bookfclleri:
in Charleston, by William P. Young ; Richmond,
by Aichibald Currie ; Baltimore, by James Rice;
Wilmington, by Peter Brynberg; New-York, by
Thomas Allen; New-Haven, by Ifaic Beers;
Providence, (R. I.) by William Wilkinfon; Sa
lem, by Thomas Cufhing ; Boston, by David
Weft, Benjamin Guild, and Thomas & Andrews.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, « CRVKttiANK.
John Gould,
H A IR-DRESSER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in g»*-
ral, that he continues to carry onhii buimeK
as usual, at No. I, South Third-Street, near
Market-Street, and thanks his former cuitome
for the favors he has received- .
Said Gould has for file, an infallible cur
Weak or Sore Eyes, which on trial, lias and
he found to anftver the purpose —He has
vials from one quarter of a do-lar to a c .
Any person trying the above, if "i. " Un ,
answer the character given, the mcne. s >
returned.
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A N' ALPHABETICAL LIST of the IW'«
f\. payable on all Goods, Wares and Me.
di/e imported into the United Slates, «
the R.icspavableon ll.ofe implied in.:*
V.-fT. Is of "he United States, and ,n .
or V<ir,:!s; Mtelndinß the addtl"'"'' D uW '
which '.lie rcl'piflivc Atttelcs arc liable.
ALSO, Old—
A TABI.E for receiving and P' v '« B ,' fco ,_.
gradual! d according to Law B s Ilo r«t
And Blank, for .he various Power >< At J
■. celery at.he T.nfu.y
at the Bank of ihe tinned Slates. .
<\S,- The j»ne of this Gazette is Thr " D i f
tnrii.K —One M/tt k fold" "" '■iM"*' l