A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WED VESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 8 1, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE DELAWARE GAZETTE.
CONSTITUTION OF GOVERNMENT
PUBLISHED FOR THE CONSIDERATION OF
THE CITIZENS OF THE DELAWARE STATE ;
Pursuant to an Order of the Convention ot the 31 ft Dec. 1791
(continued :ao
THE GAZET
ARTICLE 111
ne Ex
Sect.SS t .
2. T
ber, by th<
oe Swiif*
fentatives
the counties wbere
places where they vre far >c >■
The returns of every efe&ior so- Governor (halt be fealcd up,
and inv. ■::c'y delivered M/ th 6 »eturr >f the several
counties the Speaker i r :K Se-iatc or in death to the
Speaker of'he -"Jo..' ot P eprefentatives, w! ep the fame
until a i> ; -ker of the Senate ,*ll be apr- eci. whom they
ihall be immediately oelivered after his appointment, who shall
open and publish the fame in the presence of the members of both
Houses of the Legiflarure. The person having the highest num
ber of votes (hall be Governor : But, if two or more shall be e
qual in the highest number of votes, the members of the two
Houses (hall by joint ballot clfoofe one of them to be Governor ;
and if upon such ballot, two or more of them (hall still be equal
and highest in votes, the Speaker of the Senate ihall have an addi
tional casting vote.
Contested ele&ions of a Governor (hall be determined by a
joint committee, confiding of one third of all the members of each
House, to be felefted by ballot of the two Houses tefpedtively :
Every person of the committee shall take an oath or affirmation,
that in determining the said election, he will faithfully discharge
the trust reposed in him; and the committee shall always fit with
open doors.
3. The Governor (hall hold his office during three years from
the third Tuesday in January next ensuing his ele&ion, and (hall
not be capable of holding it longer than fix in any term of nine
years,
4 He shall be at least thirty years of age, and have been a citi
zen and inhabitant of the United States twelve years next before
the firft meeting of the Legiflaiure after his ele£lion, and the last
fix of that term an inhabitant ot this state, tin left he (hall have
been abfait on the public bafincfs of the United S.ates or of this
(late.
5. No member of Congress or person holding any office under
the United Statet, or this ilate, shall extrcife the office of Gover
nor.
6. The Governor shall at flat-a times receive for his services an
adequate but moderate salary, to beiixed by law, which shall be
neither incre'afed nor diminished dunng the pejkiod for which he
shall have been elected.
7- He (hall be commander in chief of the army anj navy of
I his state, and of the mil it i a ; except when they li:aU be calh d into
the service ot the United States.
8. He (hall appoint all officers, whose offices are eftablilhed
by this Constitution or lhall be established by law, and whose
appointments are not herein of he rwife provided for ; but, no per
son IhaJl be appointed to an office within a county, who lhall not
have a right to vote for Representatives, and have beeli an inhabi
tant therein one year next before his appointment, nor hold the
office longer than he continues to rcfide in the county. No'
members ofCongrels, nor perion holding orexerciling any office
under the United States, !hall at the fame time hold or exercise
the office of judge, treasurer, attorney general, fecretarv, clerk of
cne supreme jourt, prc.honotarv, rcjiftcr for the probate of wills
and granting letters of adnuniftration, recorder, (hcriff, or any
office under this state with a falarv by law annexed toil, or any
other office which shall declare incompatible with
offices or appointments under the United States. All comimfli
ons shall he in the name of the state, shall be sealed with the great
seal, ana he ligued and tefled by the Governor.
9. He shall hove power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons, except in cases of impeachment.
10. He may require information in writing from the officers in
the executive department, upon any fubj-& relating to the duties
ill their refpeftive officcs.
"■ He lhall from time 104'ime give to the General A fiemMy in
formation of affairs concerning the (late ; and recommend to theii
confederation such measures as he (hall judge expedient.
12. He may on extraordinai y occafioiis convene the General
Aflembly, and in cafe of disagreement between the iwo Houses
with refpeft to the time of adjournment, adjourn them to such
lime as he (hall think proper, not exceeding three months.
13. He (hall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.
14. Onthe death or resignation of the Governor, ot his re
moval from officeon impeachment, or for inability, the Speaker
of the Senate at that time lhall exercise the office of Governs un
til a new Governor (hall be duly qualified ; and on the death or
resignation of the Speaker of the Senate, the Speaker of '.he House
of Representatives at that time fl.all exercise the office, until it be
regularly vefled in a new-Governor. If the trial of a conteflcd
election (hall continue longer than until the thud Turfday in Ta
nuar\ next eufu.ng theeleaion of a Governor, the Governor of
tbe lad yeaT, or the Speaker of the Senate, or of House of Re
presentatives. who may then be in the exercise of the executive
authority, (nail cotmuue therein until a determination ot such
coritefted deAion. The Governor (hall not be icrr»ved from his
<>«ice(or inability, hut with the concurrence of two thirds of all
the members of each House.
15, A Secretary (hall be appointed and commiflioned during
■he Governor SCO".,nuance in office.it he (hall f„ long behave
h,mfelfwell. He lhall keep a fair register of all the official ad,
Governor ; and (hall, when ,e«f u ired by either l„ an eh of
b E .'k l', T* 3 a " paoers ' vouchers
relat.ve thereto, oefore them ; and Hull perfonn lueh other du
.es as (hall be enjoined him by law. He Ihall have a compeufa
lion lor his fcrvices to be fixed by law.
ARTICLE IV.
/■-i' CT '°" V. , !' el ' a i i ons of Governor, Senators, and Repre.
hlta; alldin s uch elections every white
Meman of the age of twetity-one years, having, relided in the
f l"" WXI bes T within tha, time paid
» Stale or eounty la*, which shall have been assessed at least fix
months before the elefl,on, (hall enjoy the right of an elcttor •
-odtbefoosofperibni so qualified, ftul! between the ages of
SATURDAY LAST.)
turner of " - Jtaie (hall be
fday in O&o-
for Reprc
refide, ai the
Saturday, February 4, 1792.
twenty-one and twenty-two years, be entitled to vote, al'hough
th«.y (ball not have paid taxes The returning officers of all elec
tions of Governor, Senator*, and Representatives, thall be chosen
by the people.
2. Electors dial! in all cases, except treason, felony, or breach
of the peace, be privileged fttom aruft during their attendance at
elections, and in going to and leturning f 10m them.
ARTICLE V.
Section i. The Houfc of Representatives shall have the folc
power of impeaching : but two thirds of all the members mull
concur in an impeachment. All impeachments shall be tried by
the-Senate; and when fating for that purpose, the Senators shall
be upon oath or affirmation to do jufttce according to the evi
dence. No peifon shall beconvi£tca without the concurrence of
two thirds of all the Senators.
2. The Governor, and all other civil officers under this State,
shall be liable to impeachment for treason, bribery, or any high
crime or misdemeanor. Judgmens in such cases shall not ex
tend further than to removal hom office, and difqualification to
hold any office oT honor trust or profit under this State ; but the
party convitled shall nevertheless be fubjeft to indictment, trial,
judgment, and punishment according to law.
3. Treason againil this State shall consist only in levying war
against it, or in adhering to the enemies of the government, giv
ing them a:d and comfort. No person shall be convitbd of trea
son, unless on the testimony ©*' two witnefles of the fame oveit
ast, or on confei&on in open court.
ARTICLE VI
Section i The judicial power of this State shall be veiled in
a supreme court, and courts of oyer and terminer and general
gaol delivery, in a court of common pleas, and in an orphan's
court, register's court, and a court of quaiter feflions of the peace
for each county, in justices of the peace, and in such other courts
as the legislature, two thirds of all the members of each branch
concurring, may fiom time to time eflablifh.
2. The judges of the supreme court and of the common pleas
shall hold then offices during good behavior ; but for any reason
able cause which shall not be a fufficient ground for an impeach
ment, theGovemor may in his discretion remove any of them, on
the addicfs of two thirds of all the members ®f each branch
of the legislature. They shall atflatid times receive for their ser
vices adequate but moderate salaries to be fixed by law, which
shall not be diminished during their continuance in office, ano
shall be payable quarterly to their refpe£tive orders upon the trea
futer, out of any monies in theTreaiury; but they lhall hold no
other office of profit, nor receive any fees or perquifices, exccpt
such lees as shall be fixed by law for business lo be done out of
court.
3- The judge? of the supreme couit shall be not fewer than thrre,
nor more than tour, one of whom (hall be chief-joflice. There
shall he a judge refioing in each county. The jurifdi&ion of this
court shall extend over the State. The judges shall, by virtue of
their offices, be justices of oyer and terminer and general gaol de
livery in the feveial countics. Aoy two of the judges mayadtas
if all were present. «
4- Ihe judges of the common picas fhal.l be not fewer than
three, nor more than tour, one of whom shall be chief-jutlice.
1 here shall be a judge rending in each county. The jurifdithon
of this court Ilia 11 extend over il»e Stale* Any two of the judges
may ast as if all were present.
5• Any judge of the fuprcme court, or of the common pleas,
fkall ilTue the writ of habeas corpus in vacation time and out of
term, when duly applied for, which (hall be immediately obeyed.
6. Any judge ot the supreme court or of the common pleas
may, unleis the legislature shall otherwise provide by law, out ot
court rake the acknowledgment of deeds ; and the fame being
thcieon certified, under his hand, such deeds fhail be recorded,
and have the lame <tte£l as it acknowledged in open court.
7. In civil cautes when pending, the supreme court and com
mon pleas fhdll hove the power, before judgment, of dire£hng up
on such tcmis as they may deem reafonablc, amendments in plead
ings and legal proceedings, so that by error In any of them the
determination ot causes according to their real merit} shall not be
hindred ; and also of dire&ing the examination of witnefT.s thut
are aged, very infirm, or going out of the State, upon interrogato
ries de bene efle, to be lead in evidence in cafe cf the d?a !i or
departure ot the witnefles before the trial, or inability by reason
of age, sickness, bodily infirmity, or imprifonmcnt", then to at
tend; and alto the power of obtaining evidence fiom places not
within the State.
8. Su ts may originate in the supreme court or common pleas.
9. One judge of the supreme court or of the common pleas
may, if the other judges come not, open and adjourn the court,
and may also make the necefiary lules preparatory refpe£lively to
the trial or argument of causes.
10. Jki any time pending an a&ion for deiu or damages, the
defendant may bring into court a turn of money for discharging
rhe tame ?nd thecoft thenacciucd, and the plaintiff not accepting
thereof, it shall be delivered for his use to the clerk or prothono
tary of the court ; and if upon the final decision of the cause, the
plaintiff shall not recover a greater turn than that so paid into
court for him, he lhall not recover any colls accruing after iuch
payment, except where the plaintiff is an executor or adininif
rator.
U. By the death of any party ro suit in chancery or at law,
whtrethe cause of action survives, shall abate ; but, until the lt>
giildiuie shall oiherwifc provide, suggestion ot iuch death being
entered ot record, the executor or adminifti ator of a dcceafed
petitioner or plaintiff may prolccute the said suit; and if a rei
pondent or defendant dies, the executor or administrator being
duly fened with a fcire facias, thirty days before the return there
of, shall be considered as a patty to the suit in the fame manner
as if he had voluntarily made himfelf a party ; and in any of thole
casts, the court shall pass a decree, or render judgment for or
again ft executors or administrators, as to right appertain l . But
where an executor or administrator of a deceased respondent or
defendant becomes a party, the court, upon motion, shall grant
such a continuance of the cause as to the judges shall appear propei.
(to be continued.)
I"REDERICK-TO WN, January 21.
By a gentleman arrived in town yffterday from
the Welt ward, we learn, that Capt. Dark, son of
Colonel Dark, had died of the wounds he receiv
ed in the late engagement with the Indians.
321
wfi^Po
[Whole No. 289.]
FROM THE QJ'EiiEC HERALD.
Ha l i pax, Sept. 27.
FREE SETTLEMENT on the COAST e/AFRICA.
HHHE SIERRA LEONE COMPANY, willing to
J- receive into their Colony such Free Blacks
as are able to produ ce to iheir Agents, Lieut.
Clarkfon, ot his Majesty's Navy, and Mr. Law
ranee Hartthorn, of Halifax, or either of them
latisfadoryTellimonials of their characters ( more
particularly as to honesty, sobriety, and indus
try) think it proper to notify in an explicit man
ner upon what terms they will receive at Sierra
Leone, those who bring with them written cer
tificates of approbation from either ot the said
Agents, which certificates they are hereby ref
petftively authorised to grant or withhold atdif
cretion.
It is therefore declared by the Company
That every Free Black (upon producing such
a certificate) shall have a grant of not less than
Twenty Acres of Land for himfelf, Ten for his
wife and Five for every child, upon such terms
and fubjeift to such charges and obligations (wjth
a vjew to the general prosperity of the Company)
as mall hereafter be fettled by the Company, in
refpe<ft to the grantsof lands to be made by them
to all settlers, whether Black or White.
1 hat for all stores, provisions, &c. supplied
rrorn the Company's warehouses, the Company
(hall receive an equitable compensation, accord
ing to fixed rules, extending to the Blacks and
Whites indiscriminately.
That the civil, military, personal, and com
mercial rights and duties of Blacks and Whites,
/hall be the fame, and secured in the fame man
ner.
And for the full afl'urance of personal protec
tion from slavery to all such Black settlers, the
Company have Subjoined a copy of a claufe'con
tained in the Ai r t of Parliament, whereby they
are incorporated, viz.
" Provided also, and be it further en
" acted, that it ihal! not be lawful for the said
" Company,either directly or indirectly, by itfelf
or themselves, or by the agents or servants of
" the said Company, or othervvife howsoever, to
" deal or traffic in the buying or felling of Haves,
" or in any manner whatsoever to have, holdj
" appropriate, or employ any person or persons
" in a ttate of ilavery, in the service of the said
" Company."
Given under our hands, London, 2d Aug. 1791
directors.
Henry Thornton, Chairman, Jol'eph Hardcaftle.
Phi. Saiifoni, Dep .Chairman, Thomas Clarkfon
Charles Middleton, Vickeris Taylor,
William Wilberforce, William Sanford
Granville Sharp, Thomas Eldred.
John Kingston, George Wolff.
Samuel Parker
* !*-
N. B. For the convenience of those v.ho are
poflefled of property which they cannot dispose
of before their departure, the Company will au
thorise an Agent, who, on receiving from any
proprietor a fufficient power for that pnrpofe,
fliall fell the fame for his benefit, and remit the
purchase money the hands of the Com
pany; to fucli proprietor at Sierra Leone.
PARIS, October 26. „
learn from Stockholm, that since the 110-
tification of the King's acceptation of the
constitutional charter, the preparations for the
military service do not go on with the fame vi
gor; the minister, however, who was charged
with this important communication, has fiot yet
1 eceived his dispatch—os course, we are all anxi
ous for his Swedish MajeftyYanfwer; the more
so, as we cannot doubt of the ardor with which
that sovereign had adopted the inrereds of the
court of France, there being a which
meets with considerable belief, that he was in
cognito at Paris, attended only by the Baron de
and two valets de chambres, at thetiine
of the King's evasion.
1 he decayed popularity of M. Neckar is a home
lellon to the vanity of itatefmen. Itismorethan
piobaMe, that this minister, who is now altnoft
uiiiverfally execrated in France, is the belt and
honetteft politician-in Europe.
> he alTemblv go on forming their committees.
I heir numbers will make a conliderable majori
ty ot the whole house j so that if they have a
mutual indulgence forone another, tbeyarefure
ot each carrying his point.O
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY, January io> i 79 2 -
Petition oj Catharine Greene, Widow oj the late
General Greene.
ON motion of Gen. Wayne, the Houle went
into committee of the whole, Mr. W. Smith
in the chair ; the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury on the petition of Catharine Greene,
widow of the late major general Greene, being
under conlideratioti.
The objedt of the petition is to obtain an in
demnification from the United States against cer
tain engagements which were entered into by
her husband, the deceased major-general Natha
niel Greene, while commanding officer in the
fouiliern department ; and for the circuniftances
on which it is founded, refers to a representati
on of the 22d August, 1785, which was then made
by the laid General Greene to the United States
in Congress aUembled.
The petition is accompanied by a number of
vouchers, arranged in alphabetical order by the
Secretary of the Treasury in his report - from
all which he draws the following conclusion—
" That Itrong and extraordinary motives ot na
tional gratitude for the very lignal and impor
tant services rendered by Genera! Greene to his
country, serve to give a keener sting to the
regret, which ought ever to attend the necessity
of a ftricft adherence to claims of public policy,
in opposition to claims founded on ufeful a<fts of
zeal for the public service, if no means of pro
tecting from indigence and penury, the family
of that molt meritorious officer, shall, upon exa
mination. be found adinifHble."
Genera] Wajne rose to give his reasons for
fuppovting the petition.—
Mr. Chairman—lt may not be improper to
mention tlie motives that i ill pel me to vvifh a for
tunate issue, in favor of the claim now under con
iideration of this committee, which I mull alio
offer as an apology for the part I have taken, or
that I may eventually take in support of theclaiin.
Fronvniy firft interview with General Greene,
until the moment of his diflolution, we always
lived in the ftri<3efl habits of friendfhipand con
fidence—He was an officer with whom 1 had par
ticipated of almost every vicissitude of fortune
(in many a well tried field) from the frozen yva
ters of the north, to the bwrning sands of the
south—He was a man whose virtues and talents
I knew and revered—his noble foul would have
revolted at the Idea of iuipofiticui—he never
would have offered in a claim to Congress, but
upon the purest principles of honor and justice.
I was a witness to the pressing necessity that com
pelled him to become the surety, for which in
demnity is now claimed —he did what I would
liave done (as second in command) had he been
absent at th,at trying crisis.—The claim I know
tobejuft—and I am decidedly of opinion that
he was into that security from the situa
tion in he was placed by Congress, as
commander in chief of the southern department
—Under these impressions, I beg leave to submit
to the confederation of this committee the fuitof
resolutions now in my hand—and doubt not of
their concurrent support.—
Refohed, as the opinion of this committee,
that the ellate of the late inajorr-gsneral Natlia
niel Greene ought to be indemnified for and on
account of the engagements entered into by that
General with certain persons in the state of South
Carolina, fpr the purpose of obtaining supplies
for the American army, in the year 1783, and
that ( be granted to the executors of the ef
rate of the late major-general Nathaniel Greene,
for that purpose.
Resolved, That a committee be appointed to
. bring in a bill in conformity to the foregoing
resolution.
Mr. Boudinot (aid, there was no greater friend
to the memory of general Greene than he was,
nor any person inos e anxious to have justice done
to his widow and family ; but he was apprehen
sive that the resolution proposed by the worthy
gentleman who had fit It brought forward this bu
ftnefs was not drawn up in such a maimer as to
insure it a paflage through both Houses of Con
grels. He wished therefore that it fliould be so
expressed as to prevent any tedious difcuflion,
and at the tame time do ample justice. The re
port of the Secretary of the Treasury puts the
fubje<ft on the belt footing. The motives which
led him to make the contract were, firft, the pub
lic good ; and perhaps secondly to serve his
friend Mr. Burnett, because he was his aid-du
canip, and he wished to put him in the way of
being established in business after the war ; but
Mr.Burnett was never in any other way connect
ed with general Greene, rhan as a young man
brought up in the family, whom he wished to pa
tronize. _
After a few other observations, Mr. Boudinot
moved to strikeout the preamble of the resoluti
on proposed by general Wayne, and to adopt
words nearly in substance as follows :
Resolved, That it is becoming the dignity of
Congress to make compenfatiton for the widow
and orphans of the late major-gen«ral Greene,
who so gloriously served his country ; and that
they be indemnified for the loss which his estate
is likely to fuitain by his having entered into
certain bonds for supplying the southern army
with rations and at a time when they
were threatening to disperse.
Mr.Findley obferved,that 011 the question as it is
now dated, the com mittee have a choice of three
alternatives ; the claim may be rejected, a pen
sion or gratuity may be granted to the amount,
or the claim of the petition may be granted as a
matter of right, upon the footing of its own me
rits by a special law, as all anthorifed claims
which Congress grant are given : claims for
which the Handing latys are competent, do not
come before us. lam in favor of the last alter
native. lam against rejecting the petition, be
cause as the facts are stated in the report of the
Sefcretary of the Treasury, general Greene put
ting himfelf in this situation of risk, was from
the 1110 ft public spirited motive : it was to sup
port the public interest at a most important crilis,
when the well being, if not the exiltence of the
southern army was at ltake, as well as the secu
rity of the inhabitants. If a commander in chief
of an army may be ruined in his private affairs,
by making an unauthorised exertion to save his
army or his country, the precedent may be dan
gerous ; it may teach commanders lelfons of pru
dence, which may have ruinous effects : it is
true, the neceflity of the cafe mult be such as will
juftify the unauthorised ineafur e ; from the re
port, this appears to have been the cafe in the
subject of the present debate. From the whole
state of fa<sts before us,genera!Greene appears not
to have had his own interest in view in this tranf
aiftion, if the proof of this only lay between
Banks and him. The eftabliihed character of
general Greene, not only as an officer, but as a
man of integrity and public spirit, certainly can
not fink when lain in the balance with thefecret
insinuation of an unprincipled speculator.—Such
has been jny s own opinion of general Green's cha
racter, that 1 would certainly require other
proofs than this before I would even indulge fuf
picicions : but it does not reft upon this ; we
have Banks's own testimony to the contrary, and
his partner, and we know it would have been
the interest of Banks and Co. to have made the
contrary appear ; nay we have such a cloud of
witnelfes, all concurring to the fame point, as
appears fufficient to remove doubts from ilie most
scrupulous mind. Unauthorised accounts are
admitted in settlements between the United
States and the individuals States, upon the prin
ciples of equity. 1 consider this as a cafe of the
fame nature, and will vote for ic agreeably to
this precedent. 1 consider granting the prayer
of the petition in this manner as an act of jus
tice, not only to his estate, but to the memory of
his character. But I object to granting the re
lief in the indirect way of a pension ; it is not
so lafe to the public, nor so honorable to the
heirs of general Greene. To the public It is
highly dangerous as a precedent ; it will operate
as an opening wedge to other claims without li
mitation. Few indeed can havean unauthorised
though just claim as commanders in chief of an
army reduced to such a dilemma as originated
the present quellion : but merit and distress are
not confined to commanders alone—they are to
be found in every rank of citizens. The strug
gles during the late revolution produced abun
dance of merit : we cannot look around in this
house, nor in any large collection of citizens,
but what our eye meets with those who have
claims of merit : we can scarcely be acquainted
in any neighborhood, but we must be acquainted
with such as have been reduced to diltrefs by
their meritorious exertions, either in the camp,
in the cabinet, or by granting supplies. How
many who have aided the public with their sub
stance, have been obliged to part with the evi
dences of their meritorious claims for a tempo
rary relief. Many of the aged, many widows
and orphans, to my knowledge, labor in penury,
and mourn in secret, on the account of such me
ritorious aids not being recompenced when it
ought ; though this was owing to the public
misfortune, yet the merit and fufferings were
not Ihe less. lam very sensible of the great
merit of general Greene ; ic is so well known
and so generally acknowledged on all hands, as
(to render it improper for me to enlarge thereon.
But superior as his merit was, if we grant a pen
sion or relief not founded on a just claim, merit
322
of a lower order must be also aduiitted—there is
no distinguishing the shades.
I have heard of claims on the footing of merit
brought before Congress, supported by fach ar
guments as would induce aftrangerto think that
nearly all the merit of accomplishing the revo
lution was centered in the claimant. If merit
is to be rewarded by pensions, we fhallfoon have
claimants in abundance—ln the exercise of f u .
preme command difficulties often arise which
render exertions neceflary, for which general
rules cannot be provided ; these have beeirgene
rally treated as objetfts of indemnification. Ma
ny claims are now before ; they are va
rious in their nature, and no doubt a'number of
them will be admitted : but froin every view I
have taken of the claim before us, I think it as
strongly addrefles our justice and sympathy as
any of them.
Gen. Wayne thought it necessary to make
Pome obfer ' ; upon what had fallen from
the gentle i his right (Mr. I'oud ot)—J_ n
order to p' ' ufiuefs in a proper point of
view, he !• ■«£ r qiention certain cir
cumstances j cviou evacuation of'Charlef
ton. Some of the fir> chat idlergift Souih-Caro
lina obtained a flag from General Greene to meet
a deputation i . erchan; an.: otl •s, uler a
flag from t' e ■.:h lines— thofemer '~n! s were
anxious to re:* tit < a:mj, << . t pur
pole of difpofin tli stock in ti.... - ! wifli
ed for a r< 10 tranfaift that business;
this indulgence was readily granted, for it was
thought an object of consequence to retain sup
plies for the use of the country as well as for
the army ; and they were permitted to continue
in the place for the space of twelve Months after
the abandonment Ihould take effect. Alfurances
were also given them for the inviolable protec
tion of their persons and property for that pe
riod. Thus fancftioned they were probably in
duced to speculate upon such ftoresasthe Britifli
army could spare (for that army was redundantf
ly lupplied) whillt the Americans were experi
encing almost every polfible distress for want of
the common necellaries of life. About this time
hopes were entertained of the speedy appearance
of a superior water force from the French Weft-
Indies, to that of the Britilh ; and the operating
army under my command was advanced to the
quarter-house, in a pofliion to prevent the ene
my from embarking with impunity, and to pro
tect the town and its inhabitants from depreda
tion and insult ; this manoeuvre had the delired
efFe<fl—it created a jealousy in the Biitilh gene
ral for the fafety of his rear, and general Leslie
was in a manner compelled to come into a con
vention, more resembling a capitulatitn, than an
abandonment, for he was under the neceflity to
" agree not to commit any insult upon the in
habitants, or depredation on their property, or
damage to the city, at or after his embarkation.
The word after caused some demur, but it was
infilled upon and complied with, in consequence
of the orders LUad previoully received from ge
neral Greene—a measure which at once afforded
security to the inhabitants, and a flattering pros
pect of full supplies, as well for the citizens as
for the army.
The gentleman (Mr. Boudinot) fays—how are
we to diltinguith between the articles and neces
saries that were acflualiy made use ot by the ar
my, and of the other goods purclialed ot the Bri
tith merchants ?
This may be fully answered and explained, by
mentioning this facft—that those merchants took
advantage, of their situation, and would not clif
pofc of any article suitable for the army, unlets
their whols Jlock were purchased together, having but
twelve months to dispose of their goods and col
lect their debts—nor could the neceflary articles
be obtained at the point of the bayonet, as the
merchants were protected by a compact ma e
utider the faniftion of a flag. Nor would ihey
trull the contractor Bank;, with their propeity,
unless general Greene became his lecurity ; )
which act, in their opinion, the United States
would be bound in honor to fulfil a contia
made by their commanding officer ; nor did ge
neral Greene come into the nieafure until com
pelled by dire neceflity, to prevent a mutiny an
diflolution of the army, And fucli was -the ex
lianlted situation of the country in the vicinity
of Charleston, that the executive and the leg' l
lature found it expedient to fend a didance int<j
the country to obtain supplies for tliemfel* cs an
the refugee families who were returning to 1 "*
city after the evacuation —in fact we were un e
the neceflity of taking part of this very pi o\ i io"»
to prevent an instantaneous revolt.
But the gentleman ( Mr. Boudinot) fa Js t>
general Greene's private friendtbip t>r !Tia J
Burnett, who had been his aid-de-catnp, waS
peculiar inducement for his entering in' o 11 ,
security, and that major Burnett had mortgag
an itland to general Greene as a collateia e
"i'his indeed was an aeft of private frien i 'P
but it was a subsequent tranfadUon, and no *
connected with the former,, nor is it amongcharges—this was a private purchase by major
Burnett, from Mr. John M'Queen, a gentleman
well known in South Carolina ; and it was thought
to be a very advantageous purchase for major
Burnett at the time it was made (although ic lias
turned out otherwise) but it was neceflary for
him to obtain security, previous to receiving ti
tles He applied to Gen. Greene to become his
security upon that occasion, which was complied
with—and in that ail he certainly displayed a
superior degree of private friendship, and such
as has already been found extremely injurious to
his family—but it is by no means connected with
the claim now under consideration.
The danger of eltabliihing a precedent in fu
ture, unsupported by previous authority obtain
ed from Congress, is alio mentioned as an objec-
tion— '
Mr. Chairman —There never can be any dan
ger of dr«wing this circumllance into precedent ;
for the page of history never did before, nor I
believe never will again, produce a similar pre
cedent, i. e. an army facing and fnrniounting
every difficulty and danger through a long and
bloody contest, badly ck f' -el, a -1 worie paid,
and frequently de&itute "h? common necefla
ries of life.
Sir, it's for the ho o' :n. Greene that we
contend—and I ain warr; is asserting, that
he-was not interested in the contract of Mr.
Banks, otherwise than from the pure and vir
tuous motives of serving and saving his country
I therefore feel myfelf interested and bound
in honor, to support and defend the character of
my departed friend—and to demand this claim
as a matter of right and not of grace—and I have
a confidence that the candor and justice of this
committee will induee them to adopt the prin
ciples of the resolutions submitted to their consi
deration.
WEDNESDAY, February i
The committee to whom was referred the me
morial of John Churchman, made a report, which
was read, and ordered to lie on the table.
[The report states, that Mr. Churchman is en
titled to the applause of the enlightened world,
and to the encouragement and iupport of his
country ; —that, as a greater and more accurate
knowledge of the variation of the magnetic nee
dle*wou!d answer many very valuable purposes,
encouragement ought to be given to such persons
as contribute towards perfecting that desirable
knowledge ; —and that Congress may with pro
priety patronize such a person as Mr. Churchman,
and grant him fiKfh aid as may beneceflary to en
able him to profeiute his laudable enquiries, to
good effect.—The committee however submit to
the house the propriety of making such a grant
at the present time ; but recommend an encreafe
in the penalties for copying Charts, Maps, &c.]
An engrofled bill, making further and more
effectual provision for the protection of the fron
tiers, was taken tip for a third reading, and to
have the blanks filled up—whereupon the gal
leries were cleared.
THURSDAY, February 2.
Mr. Steele laid the following motion on the
table
That a committee btf appointed to enquire into
and report to this house, their opinion of the
number of Indians in arms against the Uni
ted States—the documents whereon that opinion
may be founded—the causes of the delay of the
Federal Army on the Ohio—the scarcity of pro
visions and forage—tl\e quality of the powder—
and such other causes as may have been, in the
judgment of the committee, conducive to the
late unfortunate defeat.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill for
eftablilhing the Poft-Office and Post-Roads within
the United States, were taken into consideration
by the House, and all of them agreed to, except
one or two, which refpe& a variation in the cross
ports,
One of the amendments proposed by the Se
nate, and agreed to by the Houf'e, is in favor of
the newspapers ; inafinuch as it permits any per
son whatever, without authority from the Poft
maller-General, to " rake up, receive, order,
dispatch, convey, carry, and deliver" newspapers
for hire on theeftablifhed post-roads, without be
ing fubjeil to any fine, penalty, or forfeiture for
io ctoing.
By another amendment, it is ena<£ied that if
any person employed in any department of the
post - office,, shall unlawfully detain, delay, em
bezzle or deltroy any newspaper, with which he
lhall have been entrusted, such offender shall, for
every such offence, forfeit a sum not exceeding
jo dollars :—and the Poflmafter, in any contract
he may enter into for the conveyance of the mail,
may autljorize the perfonj with whom such con
tract is made to carry newspapers, other than
in the mail.
The bill'making further and more effectual
provision for ihe Frontiers, was pafled yefteiday—
Tfeas 29 —Nays 19. . v
FRIDAY, February 3.
After reading and referring fundrv petitions and memorials,
Mr. Goodhue moved that the houfefhould resolve itfelf into
committee of the whole on the fifhrry bill ; this motion, after
some opposition by Mr. Parker and Mr. White, who urged the
superior importance of immediate attention to the militia bill,
was agreed to—and Mr. W. Smith took the chair; the bill was
hen rend by the cleric, and on the firft fe&ion's being repeated
by the Chairman- -Mr. Giles moved that this fe&ion should be
struck out ; this motion being seconded, a debate ensued, in
which Mr. Giles and Mr. Murray, spoke in opposition to the
bill—and Mr. Goodhue, Mr. Ames, Mr. Gerry, Mr. Lawrance,
Mr. Fiizfimons and Mr. Barnwell, in favor of it : The committee
ioff without coming to a vote, and had leave to fit again.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed
the House that the Senate have agreed to the amendments ot the
House made to the amendments of the Senate to the poll-office
bill. Adjourned till Monday.
BOSTON, January 21
We are informed that a number of the associated paflors of this
town, have fubferibed among near lonr hundred of the inhabitants,
a memorial, setting forth their reaforis against the repeal of a law
prohibiting theatrical exhibitions, See. And we are allured that
those of them who did not fee their way clear to sign the memo
rial, have, with their brethren, unanimously f pre fled their opi
nions against a theatre, and placed it upon their own records.
RICHMOND, January 27.
On Tuesday evening last the froft was so severe, that Made:ra
wine froze in decarfters standing in closets, and antimonial and
fpiritsof wine were alio frozen in the Apothecaries (hops in this
citv.
We learn that on Thurlday fe'nnight, the ice was so firm at
Norfolk, that people palled over to Portsmouth upon it.
N E W-Y ORK, February 1.
HOUSE OF ASSEMBLY, JANUARY 23.
A petition of Richard Yates, Abraham Duryee, and others,
fubferibers to a new Bank, by them called the Million Bank,
praying to be incorporated with Walter Livingfton, and others,
whose petition was presented to the House on the 26th inft. was
read, and referred to the fame committee as the petition of Mr.
Livingfton.
QUEBEC, December 19.
The following are the Gentlemen appointed
for the Councils of Lower Canada, in conformity
to the at r t published for a division of this country:
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
Hon. William Smith, Hon. P. R. de St. Ours.
Hugh Finlay, Francois Baby,
Thomas Dunn, Joseph de Longueuil,
Adam Mabane, Pierre Panet,
Adam Lymburner, Esquires.
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.
Hon. William Smith,
Hugh Finlay,
Thontns Dunn,
Edward Harrifon,
John Colins, v
Adam Mabane,
George Pownall,
John Frafer,
Philadelphia, February 4.
On Monday next the Supreme Court of the
United States will meet at the new Court-Houle
in this city, when it is expedied the important
qneltion will be agitated and fettled—Whether
a state can be compelled to appear and answer
to a P.rotefs illuing from that Court ?
Richard Peters, Esq. "having resigned his ofiice
of Speaker of the Senate of this State, Samuel
Powell, Esq. was on Tuefdav last ele<fted in his
Head, an& was placed in the chair accordingly.
We hear from Albany, that wheat of prime
quality is fold there at fix (hillings (New-York
currency) and Indian corn, three ihillings per
bushel, in exchange for goods.
Accounts were some time since published of the
infamous murder of Mr. Hogeboome, fherifF of
Albany county, New-York, by one or more cow
ardly aftaffins, who waylaid and (hoc him on the
road. The lad papers from the northward, men
tion the death of his widow, Mrs. Sarah Hoge
boome, 011 the 16th ulc. as an undoubted conse
quence of the cruel fate of her husband
The boy who was charged with setting fire to
several stables in this city, was lately tried, and
acquitted.
Lately interred in the burying ground of the
Dutch Presbyterian Church near Newtown,Bucks
County, the remains of Mr-. Corfin, who
when alive weighed four hundred and fifteen
pounds.
The General Court of New-Hampfliire have pasTed an Ast in
corporating a Company of Gentlemen, for the purpose of eilab
lithing a Bank at Portsmouth, by the name of the New-Hamp
shire Bank.
A gentleman of New-Haven, by Fahrenheit's Thermometer, in
an exposed part of that city, found the Mercury, on Monday
morning 23d inft. to stand at 14 below cypher.
The Quebec Herald, of January 2, contains accounts of the ce
lebration of the New Constitution by four different companies, viz.
By the "friends oj the Constitution," at Frank's Hotel—"The late
Committees and a number of Inhabitants " at the Merchants' Coffee-
House—" The Garrison Club"—and by a number oj Gentlemen, at
Lane's Tavern. Lord Dorchester is among the Toasts given
by the three latter companies.
The tenor of many publications on the Indian war, and of cer
tain itri&ures on the heads of the executive departments of the go
vernment of the United States,ftrongly imprefles the mind of every
attentive reader with this idea—That they are the produ£hons of
foreigners. Two reasons maybe afligned for this opinion—the
firft is,the inveteracy of these writers againd the government now
so happily eftabli(hed, and the total want of f\mpathy,{o strikingly
apparent in their writings, in regard either to the prosperity, or
the misfortunes of our country. The other reason is, the simila
rity of the epithets which abound in those publications, with those
323
Hon. J. G. C. de Lery,
Picotte Beleftre,
Paul Rock de St. Ours,
Francois Bal>y,
Joseph de Longueuil,
Charles de Lanaudiere,
R. A. de Boucherville,
Esquires.
which diflingtnfh the opposition-speculations of a certain street in
London, -A corrrfpondent is however made happv in obfeiv.
ing a disposition in the people to read both fid s, and to judge tor
thcmlc lves. Some inflances of the good effeftsof counter-publi
cations to the effufions at*>ve referred to, have fallen under his
cognizance ; which plainly (hew ihat it is the duty of every friend
to the government, to exhibit from nme to time,/«flj, in'oopofi
tton to the declamations of those who take pleafute in lowing the
lecds of diftrull and disunion among the people.
The rife of the public Stocks of the United Stales, it has been
(aid, does not indicate the rife of the public credit— it meerlv
(hews that the Lcgiflature has by law piovided for paying the in.
tereft—and the credit of the Securities is exaflly in proDoition r ,
the rate of that interest.
But in answer to this remark it may be said, that the credit of
an individual is always in proportion t,o the value of such indivi
dual's promilTory note—and this credit depends on the characl
ter of luch individual for ability,probity, and punfluality—(or it is
evident, that all the legal engagements which can pofTtbly be made
will not enhance the public credit in the smallest degree, without
corresponding provision and punfluality to fulfil them.
Si R,
TO the letter of the 9th of November, which I had the honor
to address to you from Fort Washington, a postscript was added
relating to information communicaled by Capt. Slough to General
Butler, and not imparted by him to me, and that did not come to
my knowledge till after the army got back to that fort. As the
nature of the information was not mentioned, the poftfcriot mull
have appeared mysterious, and it is proper that I should explain it.
Capt. Slough, fir, was intended to have been the bearer of the
letter, and so it was endorsed upon the cover, and therefore I
thought it needlcfs to insert the particulars; and had he presented
it, you no doubt would have inquired into it fully, and all ambi
guity would have ceased ; but at the moment he foould have set
f ofF, some account of the situation of Colonel Gibfon (who is his
uncle) induced him to delay his journey, and the packet was pat
into the hands of another person, then going to Lexington.
You will be pleased, fir, to recollect it was stated in the letter
that in the night preceding the 4th of November, the militia weie
in advance of the reft of the army—For greater security, and to in
tercept any small parties of Indians that might be approaching
with predatory views, it was thought fitting that a party of regul
lar troops should be advanced, from a quarter to half a mile in
front of the militia. The party was taken rrom the right winr
which formed the front line, then under the immediate command
of General Butler, and Capt. Slough was the officer ordered out by
him for those purposes. In the night, it seems, he discovered the
Indians approaching in such numbers, that he thought it necessary
to draw in his party, and immediately made report of what he
had discovered to Gen. Butler, from whom he had received his
orders. He proposed to the General to make the fame report to
me; but the General replied to him, that as he must be fatigued,
he had better lay down to sleep, and he himfelf would give the in
formation.
This is, as nearly as I can recollect, the account Captain Slough
gave me at Fort Waftiington.
The orders given to Col. Oldham, mentioned alio in the post
script as not executed, were, That he should fend out, from his
command, an hour at least before day, and as much earlier as pos
sible, four or five parties of 20 men, with an officer to each, in dif
ferent directions, for the purpose of making discoveries. I was
very ar.xious on this point, and not without some doubt that it
might not be pun£tually attended to : the Adjutant-General was
therefore, about the dawn of day, but rather before it, fentto Col.
Oldham, that I might be certain of that precaution having been
taken. Col. Oldham was met by him at some distance from his
cncampment, and informed him the parties were not then gone
out, but would bedifoatched the moment he returned.—Unhap
pily he never returned.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your mod obedient servant,
The Honorable Major-General Knox,
Secretary of War,
At a stated meeting of the American Philosophical Society, Ja
nuary 20th, the following gentlemen, Foreign and American, were
duly elected members:
Count Paul Andreani (member of several literary societies} of
Milan, Italy.
Rodolph Valltravers, Esq. F. R. S. Hamburgh.
Anthony Fothergill, M. D. of Bath, England.
Anthony Renatus Charles Mathurin de la Forest, vice-consul
general of France, to the United States.
M. Joseph Ceracchi, of the city of Rome.
Palifot de Beauvois, de la Societe "des Sciences & Arts du Cap
Francois; and, correspondent de L'Academie des Sciences de
Paris.
John Rouelle, M. D.
Mr. Richard P. Barton, of Mount Airy, Dinwiddie county,
Virginia.
Doflor David Jackson, of Philadelphia.
Doctor William Smith, ditto.
Nicholas B. Waters, M. D. ditto.
Extract from the minutes,
SAMUEL MAGAW, Sec'ry
Died, atLeicefter (Mass.) Mr. So uthgate,ooc of the fir ft
settlers of that town, aged go.—He never experienced a day's
(icknefs in his life, and was able thl morning on which he died to
walk from his bed to the fire. Twelve children, all he ever had,
followed him to his grave.
The writer who signs " One of the Levies," complains
of the scantiness of the pay, badness of the doatking, and want of necef
faryfupplies for the late expedition under General St. Clair —
Other afTertions in his narrative contain more direst imputations.
The writer will perceive that the fubjc6t is likely to undergo a le
gislative investigation—the Editor.therefore supposes, that in an
interview with the author, he could convince him that it would
be improper to publish his performance.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 25/3 pr. /
3 pr. Cents i s f
Defered 6 pr.Cents 15/3
•UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett), and other Certificates 22f
Indents' 13^
Bank Stock—whole {hares 65 per cent.
—half (hares 108 per cent premium.
RUN AWAY from the Subscriber, living in Elfenborough,
nearly opposite Jleedy-Ifland, on the night of the 20th of
November, 1791, an Apprentice Lad, named JOHN MORRIS;
about 16 years of age; took with him a new telt hat, homespun
cloth coat and breeches, corduroy jacket, two pair (lockings, two
homespun (hirts, two pair shoes, and some summer cloaths. It ts
supposed he wenc on board some vessel, as he was seen going in a
batteau towards some veflels that were lying at the Piers, near
Reedy-Island.—Whoever takes said apprentice, and returns him
to his matter again, (hall receive Two Dollars reward, by
BENJAMIN HOLME.
Philadelphia, January 29, 1792.
A. St. C L A I R
126! pr. cent.
75 do.
76J do.
110 do.
66} do.POST-OFFICE,
PHILADELfBI*, JnnU*ry 9th, 1792-
ESTABLISHMENT of thi MAILS/ ortht Tcuril^i.
£3* IN my aduertifeme* of the gtb inft. I rpeot oqed-he
precise lirr.c ot t.V mg the dsffertoi ma at tms office ; and ga»e
Eot.ee, tha. lct.eis must Del*.. kJf mint«r:.-rr.«hi: : ,erem_;h
be time to make up the numt iut mails. Far ah Ui.cs _
accMtt *} Hem attrtJi" * kji-md ej ■ -ff
munti msdet, j..J t« the refiec:ioepJ-m:Jeri. Bui fom<
wutiemen have not averted 10 mat notice and to prevent m. -
UJtc* .0 future, I teqaeft thole wno ate potTelfed of my advert;.e
ment of the gih.to aeltroy it,and attend tothc/Jm g, in wl^fc
I marked iheuwei at whicn l-tina muftbe lejt it ;*.<qp.c,
to erijmre iheir in the tcailwf tne da) .
The EASTERN' MAIL will be closed on
Tiaeidav! I«t eieht o'clock in the morning, reach
WetoeU.;* V NewTvot* « '«» °'< Jock ' e - M - "* ach
Thurfdayi and I succeeding da>.
«-l * |
TbcViail fram New-York will be closed there on the fame
4ns, Hid at the bne tine in the aomiag ; aod
Arrive at PmWelphit on
T»*«-y 1
I
ThuHdavs }• at one o'clock, P- V.
Fridays and I •
Satuidays 1
The SOUTHERN' MAIL will be dof;d on
Mondavs ) at nine o'clock, A. M. (reaching Baltimore on
Wed n efd ay sand > each succeeding day at 3 o'clock, P. M.J
Fridays
Arrive at Philadelphia oil
Tuesdays }
Thurfda\ s aud > at one o'clock, P. M.
Saturdays )
The MAIL for the EASTERX' SHORE of M ARYLAND,
a> far as CHESTER TOWN', wiU Peilofcd on
•) -A hat' past Itm •'clock in "the morning.
Wc4ncU»ysand> (reaching Chcfiotowa oa each Weeding
Iridaya J day) and _
Arrive "at Philadelphia on
TttcfHays "> at one o'clock, P. M. io lummer, aod at two
Thursdays MC i o'clock, P. M. in winter.
Saturday* )
The MAIL for CHESTER-MILLS and E ASTON. will leave
Philadelphia every Monday wuh the otßer TMaiL jorthe Eaiiern
Shore, and return win the fasre every S2 _ dav torn
lft to Mav lft, and every Thurfdav x. e reft of the vear.
The M AIL for DUCK-CREEK CROSS ROADS* DOVER,
alio leave Philadelphia every Monday vi.h tlx Ealtci .iShoie
Mail, and return with the faxne every Touriday throughout ihe
year.
The MAIL for PITTSBURG, will leave Philadelphia every
Saturday at halt past nine o'clock, A. M. aud the trom
Pittiburg will arrive at Philadelphia every I iiday at noon.
As there are Several places of th; fame name io the Lu itd
States., the merchants and oihers are reqoefted to be very par: cu
lar in tfte direthon oi their letters ; and when letters a*e not tor a
post town,the ueareit post town to the oi «ce ou*St to be rurt uied.
ROBERT PAT TON, Pcit-Ma.ui.
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
T own (hip of Beuielem, in the Count v ot Bucks.
Esquire, deceased, pursuant to the Directions
of his lalt Will and Testament.
OX Tuitiiy the »7thoi March next will be eKpofed to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, or. the p cm..is—Ooe exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, contain ng about two
hundred and Diacty.r. IK actcs. iituate on the river I>e J .a>»are; on
which is er«&ed a hand'ome two-dory br.ck hou-.e, wuh a new
piaxxa in the «roi«t, two kucr.ins, a good barn,ftaDies. .1 y- use,
2nd coiivetiXQi ou'tiobf A good 01 char<l ot «ne tx. .1 k.t«d
of grafted iruit,aopr :n us prime, a large garden wc.l fenced in,
and in good order ; andafhadand fcerringfifliery before the door.
Tiiis place 15 remarkably well timbered, has a iut£ciencv of mea
dow, a front on the river, and rows back, to the i.
One other very laluible Fairn, adjoiningibcaiiOTe; contain.n»
abou; two hundred and seven es, the grea.cil pa*t of which iv
wood-land. There are on thii Xarm a good house, barn, (bibles,
and other < with a young thrivingorchard oi the bcA
grafted tr. it, and a and herrwtg a»hery. It -«as lon* t>?eii a
well accufto**ed tavern; and the tcny belonging to it, known by
the name of Dunks%, is noted lor being \»e:J kept and wuch tre
qacntcd. Sa:h the abev e places afford the heft profpctls ou .he
liver, and are rema-kablv nea.thv.
One other fmaU Farm, containing aSoufc fixty-thwt acrrs. iiiu
a;e m ihe town.'V. Ip of .mp;on, in the cob.i \ afore.aid 5 011
h are ettfled two k»£- s uics. Fbere »> a fnsj!. orchard, aao
a -vat fuSc»ency of wood-lind and meadow gound.
X>ue bot 9 four acre*, fauate • a ibcg'Nt post-road
Jeac ag ficm Phil.ddpn a to New-York, and te*i miici rrom the
foemcr. On it is a g-wxi lo; dwelling-house, and woik &op ad
loanin-;, v» 1 well ot exce..eru \*aicr at the d» or ; in th.
icnsre of the Widow \\ arc.
Also, ii t .ie fame time and olace, v Se lo d all the remaning
Stock. Ft.ming Ut<; acd Wheat in the
ground.
X. B. The cor.ai-:ons of file »ill V, ooe-ihird of the parchife
money to he paid down, and the rtnu.a .a iu two yea.iv pay
menu vitb ia&mJL
rvtrr r -
THAT briu- A and clc§am !i:cs: ton the Ka k» oi i v .c Pv>-
toxnack, tKr lovaof A'txandm;>, tVr f«S
fcnber now rcadrt; a Sou* 55 ot 30 atrrs v • • •_*'
.nipr"ifrtr's, jti iwat and twnwodww two it >ry houic,
coa: cat ni "bed trora the ceT.a* to the garret. a kacixm. Im»>
dry, ®«i-ba«tr, dun-, :v m Sam, and ice :i-xiic,. .. naithcd
inibe bcil trwan.*ogje«*>e* wnft icvrraJ mhe- •eeefiarf hrwki.
the wd ud garden r»tatl> pa»ed, and ask ful cardner now cm
j.»o\t<j intk - ,TJ g ,l ,6 fine order; the ias.". »t eocloled wu s 4
pou and 11; fence ; a ai»3 ir>'jO£i ot exctiicot m atw—-..V
pro{pe& is rquaUed by lew, aad excelled by none ia Amenoa—
iesc*~.' n - Alexandria, liae Federal T ">wn, and Georps
Town, haw £ * Sne and fnii view oi each f>i»ce. smft render it in
Iff veal's o« fT m x a.iiej dirctt»i *a a hwi of CMwwiau a»
Akxar... ..Id a f.: ch, _t
nstr Wlo»e tae rol Feb:vary n.xt, a c>eap baica n may be
t*ac. Ar« iaa.ipi.ubtf wle,flfitol ail abraoctj,*; btoiaii
W tk itti 'c 1 wiQ alto fell ¥ :ii rsoh.t, tto Acres o
Wood laad, about 3 ciiei o iart, which will fcak ad) 10 Sap
p. : -1 '* ■' ' •
Dtcemkr 34. 170*-
American Apollo.
SVBSCRIPTIONS -o» t» « AMERICAN APOLLO,
A iitw .c*L.-oa ; u# cownntncfd i» BMion.
JOHN' SWIFT. )
JOHN" W. NEJ-iIT. v Extcoiotv
S..MUI: BEN. . iT. ■>
TO 8E iOLD,
BALDWIN' PADF
A LOTTERY,
TO raifr the Cam of £. 75° for ,be P uro v ot
Pra.cX..,i Ep.l Jf' Cfturcb .o thccnyof New-br^f.-*,
ji.ku November 1 -91
CHE
i Prue of
9°
«®75
1814 Pri«.
jjto Bianki.
5 J34 T ckels, at 3 Dollars eacb, is i6oct Dj s.
(VT Tbu Lottery is comoofed of 5334 Tickets. not two Blanks
to one Pnte, and fubje& 10 a dedufiiou of twiloc J*t « *>*] t cr
cctU. which is raorc favorable to adventurers than anv Lottery ye
offertd to the public—and it being o» fiich evident ""'"TjJ 1 " '
can not bedoubtia but the undertaking wtii meet with the moS
liberal fupporu , .
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in Apn..
r. tooner if the Tickets ate disposed of, in the city o:
B.unfwtck, ■ndcr the lofptfiioo of Col. John Bayard, Prefidoit
of (aid city ; lames Parker, Esq. Mayor of the j-.ty o
a,.d Arch,bale Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of Ok Manufactur
injr Society of New-Jersey.
'Ticket* to be bad of ihe following perfooft, who are dulv ap
pointed Mat a.eis, are under oath, and have given security for me
:d'.lhful performance of their duty. , ,
A lift of the fortunate numbers wi 1 be fu' lifhrd. and tie
prizes paid immediate!* aiier the Jnwin;of the Lottery.
r " IOHN PARKER. /
PETER KEE NOV, .Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
X. B. Those prties which ate not deniinaeti within lix month?
a ter* he dra« u[ of the Lottery, will be cocideied as a generous
| donatic nto t*-.t Cr * c-.
AVtu-BrvJuici, to, 179 X.
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. *6, Fi*«-St»"t,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and \ aluable
BOOKS,
Which may be fen nay day, u*ulf*e fdtk, r. m.
Jin; ikemMre AejiHttamg :
ftlu. TJOMER, Xruophon, Pl«o, Plutarch, Eofcbius, Som>-
IX men, Tbeodorci, Virgil, Horace, Livy.Taciiut, Pater
cuius, Plmv, CoocordaMiaLat.ConcordamiaGr. Thcboiiu Ci
ceronis. B:i>lia Junii aqd Tranellii, Bible de Maiun,WelU'i Map»,
Scapnl*—Phworini—Maitnui—Hoß»a«i Lexica,.VolEi Etymo
|o#icoa, Antiqaiu EcdcC Srtjanir*, Ac.
Owtr. Piadjr, Cyrop*di», Bcmley'i Hrnace, Temtcc aad
Pturdnn, Ovid, J«**d,Maaili»s»Ci«roaKop. om. C*iar, Su
etonius, Juliut Pollux, Hederici Lexicon,Voffii An Gram. Ciure
ni Geographia, Jultaaiam Codc,See.
03m a ia/ra. Homer, Aaacreoo, Arifefluaes, London.
Ttieophrattoi, Poeut mimes Gr. m
rtJUuntfUoncr, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibu'luv Plao
lui, Lucan, Martial,Clandiaa, Val. Flaccos, Auionius. Buchanan,
Saitofl,C<iitius, Flonu, lufcio. Val. Mixsinus A. GrUiuJ, HiiL
Auguit. Scriptom, £*gSjk **d Frnii TrtrJUlitts oJ lomc o: the
Ciiffics, MgrcM sarutr ot GictV and Latso Giamfflwi, &c. &c.
63T Caialosue? may be had «» KcSn. Rice & Co. Bw-k-vilnrs,
Maiket-ilrcct, or of JOHN CAREY.
O&ober 3 ». (i-o«M
Public Securities,
Boccrt mad Sold, on COMMISSIO X, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
CfacfttouStreri.nrxtdoor to tb« Raafc. No. 07.
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE. 1 SPICES,Scc.&c
Of lac £:ft cai —bj
No 19,
Tkir4-SJ»*W Cht<V, at i-i V jrVfiS: rrTi
American Lead Manufactory
STEPHEN AUSTIN, a-Co.
HAVE jnft now upt—ri t)«iT LkaikWai* SOl"s*, f* o «soors
loot to ot Wabu:4lU Whirl,adjowiaj;ikir New F-iiory—
w acre ibev have now ra«c.f, * j<i rc»dv 'or f. i «cwnl r_ i
m:ni ot SHOT c! all fsccs, »ith SKLLT .«r,d BAR i.LAO, ir..
produdioa of the \! ?inV rg uii. A» thrv have noploycd a
aunbooftxpenniccd woikawm, ihry w*imn u u :
t call m qul.tv to any uu..uf adored in Lujpc, ini «i« tcxiocod
pi ice from the coH of iroportrc.
TVv - o coc. ; -j to all thf shore articles a:
Richmond, «11 V rjpflia. A 1 orders djo either oi th;
aWve Fador.Ck, u .1 be UiUxiu.iy ween to, atv cxccnicd oa tfee
ftxxuft noncc.
X. B. WwnJ, Mi:linens, fobcr. labcMiiajr Mm, a: Ihe ;
M:o«,where qm£*ai cniplov, iocc: ia
moK& wili be pven, ne«>i ot cn«ivc\aMOe rein* plotted, aa.:.
houiu tor iheii rcccpijon.
Fot tfur.her i'tctxj. Jt ofXivurs. Mosii A _ iti x i C<x
it their Fatkwy it* R;rh rond,oi as above.
r.fi;s. Ikcr*fit* 3. 1701
John Pintar d,
SJFGXX BROKEX i: ,-rCC7K.X££X,
PURCHASE* ;?ir SELI S
PUBLIC DEBTof every deferipuon,onC;Tr*w/:iE
the fo."ic*:n£ ja.rs:
OK ihe fi>cciea».>u®t ot all fairs « acfiian. cxt J>ei
Cfttt.
Om duto n private fa3c or p«ii chafe, per errn,
Oa icaimucs. *- io.
Receiving r. r ctt it the Lcvan-05cc, mi pei ctat, o» |K*
ar >i.ni ot tl« i«: ltft.
For making trammers at cut©, turret,
gy Such V :c > «.i wav r*c»*ac to iivo- i.-.r •- -' - - -<• *
tku O'irrs ay rflv or ;lxn bt!nj;cvtvMfu v>uk .. .
-Ju.'if* c: >-.vi- ii i ]cmt»4J c\tvr '.c Xf a. C cx:cri\c «« ?
la the public dock*, together vuh a «r<AttfiaW ."i.e<3 vorrei jvvt.-
ort>»:c t v - .-c'"" - -- —C V v ;rc Sui<?, ena: - r * ,r. ;c«c.c. c; fc.i
op»CTal3orij with peCuUat brw& 10 fc > rrrV. ; s.
JON PIXTARD,
324
M E.
DolUi* is tooo
IOCO
xooe
1000
«
1000
ItXlO
1000
s°°
SCO
100
o°
20
4
, >s°°
ilfao
6700
16000
'
War Department.
r iioi.
IKEOttMAXIOM-U M m?*a>y Uriid.
< of *be yjnledfcae*, lb* to wkici tfcry arc intitled
[us Bx'mamhi of their pefc&Oß, tidka the4th day of Sep
tmbmi J»«> wfckk wiUtfecom* d^ yh day of
March, 179*, Will be M on tlx said-day by the CommiOiooert
ot the Uan wiihui the date* ccfpcdivcly, under the ulual regu
lations vt,
Lvery application (or payment mall be accom paoicd by thf
following foocatn.
til. TVctitiSote pienkr the ftite. foecifvine t!\at the prr
fou poGrffiog >be (war u in fat* aa invalid, aut afccnaining we
Turn to which it Mi he i« annually muled.
2d. An aifiilav't, agreeably to the following form :
A. Bl tJ«»e before me, dne of the Jaifticcssfi he county of
in the Sale of and made oath that he'is the fame A. B. to
whom the original certificate in hisooffeffion was given, of which
the following is a copy cenibrate given by 'he ua-c to Be re.
cited) That he fenrrd (rc*ime«t, corpa orveffel) at the time he
wu dibbled, and that be now re&ics m the , and county of
ami has idviai uicrc iuf the uit years, previous to which h;
itfwicd in
la cafe a* ianlM flioald apo'.y for payment by an attaroe/.thr
fiid attorney, beside* the crm- ate and oath before recited, 801 l
produce a fprcV i: tier of attorney agrerably to the following form;
f, A- 3. of cwoTof Eiteof do hereby coobi-
Dm and unjoin: C D. of lawtul attorney, to receive mm/
behalf of my or fix months, as an invalid of the Da',
ted State*, from the tourrkd »y olSeptembcr, one thousand iarrn
hundred and nroetj-ooe, »o<i ending the fount day of Hatch, «c
thoufaad fettr—ured and ninuv-two.
Signed Mid fealfd
.a Lac pre fence of
Wuacfin.
Appiimiogs of neraion ad adminifiraion malt be accompa
nied with le**! evidence of their refpe&ireaftcrj, and alfc of tbe
litßC the inilidtdM, whole pea&oa they may claim.
By command ot the fitUatof the United Suta.,
H. KNOX, aOfai.
!>? 3 m 3
The Pnatm ia (Vrcfprfli* Eulctue trqurflcd totuiil <
tht alum w ihrracwfaiiini, (or the fpitt of i«o ooak *
< Ak'»roLi(, Jomyi.ijjL
At a Meeting of ihe Vifcoreand C—ci»ataof St
in the Siale of ktuylxxi, an Tarn Way the Jiorai
ber last.
RESOLVED, ._#''•
'T'HAT ttw R<u<d,at the qnanrrty menine ia May aril,pre-
A coid *> ekfl a Vict-M«cipl «f St Jolm'i Colrp:
« Thai it lie ike doty of the Priadjnl aad Vtcr-Pniicip^,»
ndi fan of ike jobber Ambon ia laWaid Gre*fc cAiii
pnu of the IfaW—ia, Upt. and ItoJ itJ Snail PVibfe
pby; and ibiikdrpaincauaf the bid hiacifal aadfia.
Principal Stall hereafter be akmained with proifian, on aiafr
of ibcu mutual convenient* and ttlpwhte<||iiiiciflit
That ih* Vw-Priacipl (hall be entitled to i«ui< fcr hiifa.
*ice*. a fabry of iVfee bandied awl fifty poimda, cma iumq,
iMing doiUx at -Jb oatft, lo be paid <f<-i«rrty.
That pcriona defirow of, and qualified im (be apfanUoli
▼ice-PticKipal, be, by poblic adveitafctnesfct. ifijoeftcd make ap
plication to Ur. Charles Wallace, Mr. «*iic*Cam>ll of Carrofi
ton, and Ur. Alrrandrr Cantec Hurfon, all of the cily of JUaa-
Bolii. ly oadtrof thajhnad,
JOH3l*llO»IAS, Fn&int.
N.B. Tlic!udaaßiUwi«(SL j
prcfcTTOCT on accoaM of niuun ram or <i|nnmi
A i ihc ioooimmrtf of a Vkc-Pracipal it alone wnl«, M
cosisVxi ibc plan of this ikclaaid willmtiely ,
procccdto the ckfliuo at Aefaudtnr; prowidfti a pcrfarfyu-
Isficd, forilni njiiNiMi ca»bepn>-
csitd. T* peifcaal mndiacc of ike cadito. ">
pgiunh iromti, will be ofci-mcflv proper.
It n»T bc tHul to irt*»ik, ihat «W- rjanesof alllVprokflore
and icichcn uk hubotobcai paid wMßraoti panfl—Wy; i>4
that ibr Mso) Sr. Jctf-a - * CoUrge pi«i«e «cnto»>»i
cotk, fuprnor »iutie apprapncucas, wfcci km beta, or pio
b«biy be curar.
f|" THe Pri*tr»of nrwfpafcn the Smo.
»sr ciTsrfdT rrtjwrftrd to inlcrt iWr above irioW and it®ark>-
wi ,o repeat the publication « often js oocixnitoce »>'j pnß' ; .
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MS. THOMAS, o; W<rx«&cr. Mia«c«u \ru acu k !"<*■
;t.- ir« it-JKU»"..r, irs v .r b" "*} c's ir "
O : if i Sn. T<ii.-'CT.:» erf hu Rr i'. On« E- . '•*
HOLY BIBLE. Tbt AfooypluiJKi lac v...
cd w«li jii :r cdiJjMJch toe mc-k »*l3 **.«■-
SaciiGratfTTOT. *s. r c SoMC«iriio* Pmiis.kuP* 1 -
re;urs.haa toh .»» ."rjlrr, or to t.m Mk- Cowj—**'•
b\ iße i«.v«i KoTfiati- nrxt, *«j » c foaßtriii*)
lit .i ii;m to inform «ke paUic, js»m the »roik brti «»-
m bx Vnv jrrai'.fi-ifr:. tUip <* otbcii, ita -""J*
««H drai > ;-«* it.-r.-r.: .->r.:' :•;•:» »* to tl* ««««•-;>"• «
p. -;. r£ ... . ramzr: s, »ac .» dwafa-ds co»p«««l wubrEnijii*
*aTi t'vCTvlihono^—n cicrcdi<«> ofrit uodt.O««.
u c«r;«. or. foMv ts h» m cat, ci»-« >e f.»J* ">« »« u °*
hCo p -i ! Fi«ii : b4e,»i3 - "
cit c«ai »to aoa u«" "
Pjbl.iK-.-. *-3 !•.- >'~ bv tSr t-t-cx i>-h of •Do 3".
TWENTY- SIX LETTERS,
Otj TSyr wrl
Rct'pco ; r,g !M KtVOH TION .<1 AMERICA.
\V-.::;.-i r is the vr« irSa.
J, iU V:tt-P«n;.->I»T tit V*&* SteUf-
TO *1 S«l» I". TSI i»iro». bl
\ TABLE fer««r< » sod Gc 3at tfcr B—
AVw f-c v-*:rs, > - * **' V«iae ot Go-3 •"
Cn», f*%«n ti TV - PtaMT* ' rMs—jrccicm.
. -• - • "'
advertisement. .
*y *!r c-:?£..* *-m /V#**?. ft* U*rr *" rtto TlLi*
iV. iC u V- /-A** :r>.,'iCa<, r.j + vtacka****
-Cr i * itfoxß.wcE N*i ,wA *
•=* ' . • \&r iml art rrf , #
*>■« f - «t K>*t '». T*. .*r i x tL >r r lt>s 7P T ffc-'
/>♦ rr^rr yu..-. :icr*•??•."At i **irvui(Y. «r* frt f*r*&*****
rir* f % *tr.\ •!».. ta rw }jh?*+ tf :tu Gtzdßt. | .
arr« J»
. r .fR Ar
£3* •••..x. }V<'.
i 'p*M9C er/c,
i •
before roe,
Srts,
<Va» i«s '•
—uirbftf Jhfc
- . h jjrs, Lmkj*'*
I
I
v H
JSAIAH THOMAS.