A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN F F.N NO, No. 69, HIGH.STRF.ET, PHILaDI I PHIA
[No. 78, of Vol. 111. J
FROM THE AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER.
MR. DUNLAP,
'"OHOSE who found alarms to the people, may
A be either watchful patriois, or wicked in
cendiaries, according to theoceaiion, Thole who
advise the people to eltablilh a good goveninieur,
and then keep a Uriel eye upon ii, are always
their friends, inasmuch as the best governments
require this check againfl abuses. 1 hose who
tell the people to divide the trult of government
among different sets of hands, and then goto
flecp, mult he falfe friends, if they be not open
enemies. The language of fucli politicians is
this: ' When power is in different branches, they
will watch one another while the people are
nfleep ; ancl as one or other must lose by every
plot, the loser will be a marplot : but ftippole
the plot should be so contrived, that the whole
government (hould be thegainer, and the people
only the loser. —
Who is to be the marplot then, if the people are
asleep ? Look, fir, at the British government.
Its branches are fcparated according to order.
Each has its peculiar character and interefb ; all
are trimmed and arranged, and checked, and
poised, and balanced according to weight and
measure. Here surely mult be marplots in abun
dance. Here fin ely the people may sleep on
and take their re fir, in full confidence that no
attempt will be made on their rights ; and that
no public measure will enrich the members of
the government at their expence. Ask the ho
ned Britons if this be so ? Enquire what are the
fruits of this tree, whofc fiour'tjhing branches are
so well arranged—You will be told, that, for
thole who can climb into ihen>,the fruits they
bear are apples of gold ; but for those who dwell
under their .liadow, the bitter-leaves they drop,
are taxes without end—Rellriiftions without num
ber—officers wirhout principle, and peculations
without punifluuent.
Americans ! you have done well iii planting a
tree, whose branches are well poised, and capa
ble of producing good fruit—You will be no
ionger wife, if you go to sleep under it. D.
PHILADELPHIA
DONATIONS,
LATHY MADE TO MR, FE/vL&'S AMERICAN MUSEUM
The Antelope, or Corine of Monf. BufFon, an inhabitant of Se
rtegal. Prewired by Mr. Darby, of Salem, in MdlTachufetts.
A large Crab, caught on Jhe coast of Spain, weighing 9'b.s.
Presented by Captain Decature.
A Tube of viu tfied v.nd, made by a stream of lightning, found
in afield belonging to Ma'thew Weidon, Enquire, of Cape-May.
About the lad of July, 1791% in a thunder-storm, a stream of
lightning was teen by Mr. W.ldon to ftnke the ground, where
ncithertree, ftnee, or any thing higher than fjme very small
shrubs and grass grew. Immediately after the slash, a smoke and
fire were discovered at the plac< j f which made him conclude-that
some old tree on the ground was on fire, persons of the
family went immediately to the spot and found the grass for some
yards around entirely consumed, in tht centre of which was a
hole of vitrified sand, at the tntranre it was about one inch dia
meter, but confiderablv leflVned under ground, and digging a
small distance down, they found that the tube branched out into
many branches, that were diminifoed in their size the deeper
they pursued them, which was something more than 3 t be
neath the furface of the earth, how much deeper they might
have gone was not tried. In the parage of the electric fluid,
such stone as were in its way, weie melted and cemented to the
tubes, Prrfented by Mr. Deca;urc.
The Violet Crab, from the Weft-Indies. Presented by Mr,
Abraham Witmar.
Four pieces of that remarkable and stupendous work of nature
commonly called the Giants Causeway, in the county of An
trim in Ireland Prefenred by Captain Heniy Geddes.
The Manack, or Marmote, commonly caiied the Ground-Hog.
Presented by Mr. Johnson, New-Jerfev.
A pair ot Whue Doves (alive) from lhe Weft-Indies. Pre
sented by Mr. Marie.
A pair of elegant Mogul Slippers. Presented by Captain
O'Donnel, Baltimore.
The Noddy, a Btrd remarkable for its falling into a deep fle'-p
the minute it alights on a vcffcl, common in the Weft-Indies.'
Presented by Mr. St Baltimore.
A beautiful Faun (American) presented by Mr. Samuel Wilson.
Somerset county, Maryland.
A remarkable large Turnip, weighing Bolb. which grew in
Georgia the last season. Presented by Miss Oswald.
A pair ot Elk-Horns, the measure in length four feet, and the
width between the Horns at the extremity ot the ends is 2 tcet
io| inches, weighing 251b. Presented by Mr. Derrick Peter lon.
A Madagascar Batt, measuring across the wings extended, 3
feet 4 inchr s. Presented by Captain Daniel Howland, Baltimor .
The Balance Fifh,or Hammerhead Shark—This is one of the
most extraordinary fifh in the world." Its head is different in
form from all other fifh, being placed traverfely to the line of the
body, with large evrs placed at the two extremities of the head.
Presented by Mr. Francis Gillitt, mariner.
Seeds of the Mahogany-Tree, inclosed in its fliells- Presented
by Michael Hillegas, Esq.
Part ot the fortifications ercfled on Brandon-Hill by Oliver
Cromwell, when he besieged the city of Bristol. And some Coal
•f the Church built within the Fort by the Hollanders, in the fiift
Wednesday, January 25, 1792.
fotilement of New-York, which was burnt in the Negro plot
Presented bv Ebcnezer HaKarcf, Elq.
A Petrified Oyster, with both shells separated, which plainly
shews the Oyftei and the heart that was couucftcd to cach other
Presented hy Mr. SiHba|d.
The Accozuay-Hajket and Pagaf, used by the natives of South-
America. ...
And the Car rihean Cndge's, which ihev use in close aflion.
Prefcnted bv N. RouflTeler
The Head and Beak of ihc Sword-FiOi. Prefentcd by Mrs.
Egger.
FOR S HE GAZFI TE OF THE UNITED STATES.
EPITH AL A MIUM.
7*o Wili iam Honey-Gomb, £/</. toho dejerted Bachf.l oils-
Island* anr/ entered the Temple of B y m e ty*, in the year
of his age.
LET Homer mounted on Pegasus,
Explore thefummu oi Parnailus—
Awake the lyre, attune the ft'ing,
And fierce Achilles' apger sing ;
Tell how Atrides bv the quarrel,
The Greciaucaufc involved in peril ;
While gallant Hector banged rhem well,
With smaller rocks than Bunkers-Hill ;
Which caulea full many a chief to go
A tour to Erebus, I trow
Drove some headlong into the water,
And 'mong their (hipping made great (laughter.
While even goddelles and gods.
In this dire conteff fell at odds ;
Till Jove provoked, afTumed h'.s arms,
And shook Olympus w,ith alarms ;
Bid the interior deities go forth
To aid the Grecians arms, and so forth.
Let Maro in corre&eft numbers
Sing, while the Trojans lay in (lumbers,
How traitorous Sinon from the horse,
Uulock'd Ulyfles with his force
Of dreadful bullies—who pell-mell,
Hurl'd many a Trojan ghost to hell
While they in Somnus' arms lay snoring ;
Which caused in Illiumfad deploring.
The spring of Troy's unhappy fate,
You've doubtless heard, was, like your mate*
A wealthy, blooming, beauteous fair one,
(Offuch we find but here and there one)
The Spartan Queen —the famous Helen.
****************
Let others tune the lyre to Mars,
And sing the feats ot bloody wars,
Infpiied by Juno or Bellona,
I sing the sweets of matrimony ;
And Ihew the world, in drains heroic,
That you are not a rigid stoic.
Ye wanton (laughters of Jupiter,
In number nine—born at a litter :
Bright Venus too, with all the graces,
Ami loves, and S> Iphs, with golden tredes ;
You I invoke, tho at a distance,
To quickly conic to my afliftance ;
Bring genius and imagination,
And shrewdness and investigation,
Phtlofophy and reason join'd,
And all the noblest powers of mind ;
Inspirit and infpirc my song,
That it be not too (hort, nor long,
Nor high, nor low, nor (harp, nor flat,
But may each syllable be pat,
And lightning like (devo<d of fiflion)
On all celibians flath conviction—
Illume obl'vion and chaos,
That I may sing as clear as day is,
llow Matrimony was defign'd
T' encrcafe the bliss ot human kind ;
And how it boasts the pow'r t'afTuage,
Life's various ills from youth to age ;
And light the lamp of love and hope,
T» those who in the regions grope,
Where-Hymen ne'er illumes the scene,
Nor (hews what life's true pleasures j
Where all that friendfhip can infoire, )
Combine to feed love's mutual fire, >
Till life's lad sparks in peace expire. )
TKice happy they who reach the plain,
Where tenderness and virtue ieign;
On wiugs ot mutual love they soar,
To heights of bills unknown before—
Health and contentment to the pair
In bloom of life, who nobly dare
Obey the- firft and great command,
Increase and multiply the laud.
May every social joy attend
Your future days, refpefted friend ;
May you by sweet experience prove,
The raptures of connubial love.
May no event your bliss annoy,
Andfo'isand <1 ughters aid your joy ;
And children's children hand your name
To the last page, infcrib'd by fame.
And when the race of life is o't^r,
And time winds up its springs no more,
To yon blest regions may'you rife,
And join your pavtner in the fkics,
Where marriage shall no more be known,
But love, immortal joys shall crown.
Glouceftcr County, 1^92.
* See the American Mwfeum, &c.
" There is an idea of goverhment which has been floating in the
human imagination from time immemorial 10 the p>efent hour,
'hat never has been substantiated, nor realized—and judging fiom
past experience, never will be.—Speaking o/ this Utopian fyftcm,
a gentleman once observed, " I had rather depend on a legislator
who draws his maxims from experience and common fenlc, than
on all the theories of ohilofophy that have existed from Plato to
the present moment."
309
&kso
[Whole No. 286.]
R 1 C H M O N D, January 11.
Extraii oj a letter frct/i i'tiris, Sept. I J.
" The grand fcvent is pail, and the CouftitO
ion of fiance has received the signature of the
king. The anxiety of the public to be present
at the ceremony was Co great, that hundreds re
mained all night 111 the hall of the aflembly.
When 1 went, at seven o'clock in tile morning, 1
found all the galleries full to overflowing j but
1 was, by good iuterelt, and the friendfhip of
the commillioner, fortunate enough to get a place
in the tribune of fuppleants, ex^c r tly opposite to
the President, and not more than ten or twelve
yards distant—so that 1 commanded a full view
of the scene. Such of the members of the new
legislature as had arrived in tortn, were placed
on the heretofore vacant benches of the party
droit—and the po'.itnefs of the aflenibly yielded
to the eager curiofiry of the people,, by admit
ting numbers of foreigners, and others, to feat*
in the body of the adembly—in all there could
not be fewer than 3000 strangers present. The
box let apart tor the journal of the logographe,
. clof'e to the President's chair, was on this occa*
lion fitted up for the Queen, the Prince Royal,
Madame Royale, and the ladies who attended
them. The writers for this valuable journal
i were accommodated with places for the day in.
the body of the hall ; for so properly attentive"
is the alfsmbly to the true interelts of the people,
that, for the fake of publtfhing corredt accounts
of the proceedings, the respectable papers have
bureaus and places allotted to them, chat they
may write the accounts 011 the spot.
" At twelve o'clock preeifely they prepared >
the'adembly for the royal feifions. The table
of the secretaries had been removed fi-otn the
platform, and was placed 011 the ground', just be-
I fore the bar. The President's table, and ordina
ry chair, were now removed, and a carper, .of a
!' purple ground, embroidered with fleurs delis ire
- gold, was spread over part of the elevated plat
■ form to the left. A chair of the fame colours
was placed on this carpet. A chair of the fame
werkmanfhip, but the ground bliie, andthefleurr
de lit not so numerously embroidered, was placed
on the right of the carpet for the President,' The
left hand is the place of honor, and way
the chair was placed for the King. The twar
chairs were of equal heighth, aind there' was nor
footftool or cushion for that of the King.
" His Majesty was drefled in a purple suit em»
broidered with colours, without regalia, and with
only the order of St. Louis at his button hole.
.He held a paper in his hand. On his ascending
!the five Heps of the platform, on which his chair
; was placed, he began inllantly to read, without!
ifitting down, and without any previous ceremo
• ny, his speech..
" The Party Droit, lafi night, published a so*
lemn declaration against the eonftitution. It i*
the work of M. d'Efpremenil, and is signed bjr
134 deputies, who still attend in the anFembly j
and a number of deputies abfenr, have sent their
adhesion to it under different modifications. I
indole you the protestations, which make in all
66 pages.
' BALTIMORE. Jan. i %
Extratf of a [titer frem a gentleman in Cadiz, fohi
J <-> . »
corrcfpondent in this town, dated 0(1. 21.
" The Ship ai'rived here about fix days
igo, from Baltimore, and brought upwards of
1400 barreils of flour, which is fold at 9 current
lollirs. Another cargo, confiding of 2000 bar
•ells, arrived the lame day, per the Peggy,Capt.
Fleming, from Philadelphia, and has been fold
at 10 5-4 current dollars per barrel. The Hava
na merchants call for no other flour but that of
Philadelphia, the Baltimore quality being en
tirely disapproved, owing to a cargo imported
lately from laid place, which made the bread
fourilh, (owing, 1 suppose, to the flour being too
old, or damaged) and, from the event, they will
not buy any but that from Philadelphia, excepc
through neceflity."
NEWBERN, (N. C.) Dec. 31.
On Thorfday last, the Legislature of this state
appointed his Exce.llency Alexander Martin,E(q.
Governor, the Honorable James GlaJgow, Esq.
Secretary of State, John Haywood, Esq. Attorney-
General
The General Aflembly have voted a loan of
yoool. to the Trustees of the University of North-
Carolina.
SEPTEMBER 16.IB
PARIS, October p.
THERE is ageneral canvass for the offices of
Mayor of Paris, Procurator Syndic, &c. but
it is believed, that the Democratic party will pi e
vail, and that M. Peythion will be Mayor, and
M. Roberfpierre Syndic.
NATIONAL LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY.
Thursday, Ocft. 13.
The Afleinbly called for the order of the day
The commiflioners appointed to examine the
archives, reported that the number of papers
contained in them was so great, that to examine
the whole would have taken several months. M.
Camus, the archivilte, had promised to give them
an abftradt of the whole within two days, and
had kept bis word. This abftracft they had found
so ably made out, so clear in arrangement, and
so accurate in its details, as far as they had had
the means of examining them, that they thought
it more honorable to adopt it, and inform the
afleinbly, to whom they were indebted for it,
than toprefent any thing less perfetft of their own.
The reading of this abftrait, which contained
an admirable account of the committees appoint
ed by the constituting aflembly, the powers
■which the neceflity of the times;' had obliged
them to aflame, the powers which they ought
to exercise in less arduous circumstances, what
progiefs each of them had made in' the matters
laid before them, and theready means by which
any new committee might take up the fame sub
jetfts, where the former committees had left
them, took «p the greater part of the day.
The aflenibly ordered, that honorable men
tion ihould be made in the minutes of this im
portant voluntary, service, performed by M. Ca
mus, and agreed to take his account of the com
mittees as the basis of their plan. *
LONDON, November 16
Very warm debates lately took place in the
Polifli Diet at Warsaw, occasioned by a propof'ed
revision of the Administrative Commiflions, part
of which for the Crown, and part for the duchy
of Lithuania. The King and his party triumph
ed, as usual, over all opposition. Several arti
cles at lfcngth were unanimously agreed to, which
equally favor the Crown of Poland and the Du
chy of Lithuania.
Theodore Ropp, an inhabitant of Lithuania,
has fettled a fpm of money for portioning three
poor girls annually on the 3d of May, in com
memoration of the Polifli revolution.
The liberty of the Press gains ground even at
Vienna. A work is lately publi/hed there, with
the pcrmiflion ofgovernment, entitled, " Of the
duty of Monarchs, and the Provincial States, to
alleviate ibe burden ot the public expences, and
of that of subjects, not to pass the limits of obe
dience." In this treadle the author declaims a
gain ft the exemption of the Nobility and Clergy
from taxes, and the iiij u slice of confining the molt
diftinguilhed and lucrative employments to the
former. He reprobates a!fo the game laws, as
deftruc r tive of agriculture, andperfonal servitude
as pregnant with every political mifchief.
Sorcery, though extindl in nioft parts of tiie
world, ft ill exists at Rome, where the reverend
Father Altizza was lately seized for this crime,
by order of the Holy and enlightened office of
Inquilirion.
The Chevalier Erao, has seized, two Tunisian
cruizers,under the cannon of Baftia, in the island
of Corsica. The Bey has reclaimed them from
the French commandant, and declared, that,
if tKey are not delivered up within the space of
two months, he will declare war againlt the Na
tional Flag.
M. Collot d'Hei bois has gained the prize of
IJ louis d'ors, offered by the Jacobins, for the
bed patriotic Almanack. The judges were M.
M. Condorcet, Clavieres, and M. Dufaux.
M. Collot has presented the sum received, a
mong such of his brother patriots as are in dis
tress.
I n many particulars we think the new confti
tutiaii of France much better than our own ; and
especially in those most important points, which
relate to the election and duration of "the repre
sentative body, and to the entire separation of
religion from politics. On the fubjeJt of this
lnlt article, one cannot but admire at the perti
nacious ItifFnefs of our civil and eccleliaftical ru
lers. Our countrymen are but too visibly cramp
ed in their religion, violated in their morality,
and ensnared in their consciences. If thisiUand
should still persevere in imposing telts and sub
scriptions, after the unnatural and unhallowed
alliance of church and state is no less wifely than
virtuously diflolved in a neighbouring kingdom
(France)it will bedifgraceful to us,asProteltams ;
if we continue to impede, and confound and eni
barrafs the kingdom of Heaven by mixing it with
the kingdom of this world, after they have been
ferered by an Atfembly, which some among us do
not scruple to ftigmafize as an assembly 0 f infi
dels and Atheitts, it will be difgraceful to us not
only as Protestants, but as the disciples of ChriC
and as the servants of the living God.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF R E PRESENTJTIVES,
FRIDAY, December 30, 1791.
A Motion Jor referring the Petition of the Inhabitants
of Northumberland Cerl/ity, againfl the Excise, to
the Secretary of the Treaftiry, occaftoned some con
versation. *
MR. GILES objected to such reference as im
proper—He thought the fubjedt coguiza
ble by the House only.
Mr. Gerry made some remarks, which were
opposed to a more particular attention to this pe
tition than to others 011 the fame subject—He
thought the petition improper, as it prays for a
repeal of the law—he threw out some reflections
on the people of the Western counties for their
want of patriotifin, in not paying taxes for the
fupportof t heir Hate government —and now, said
he, they appear to wiih to get rid of all contribu
tion for the support of the general government
also.
[ Mr. Findley observed that it Had been custo
mary to refej- the petitions to the Secretary of
the Treasury. If this regulation had not been
adopted, he fljould now be opposed to ii. He
replied to Mr. Gerry, and defended the charac
ter of the people of the W«itern counties—said
they had paid their taxes for the support of the
state government with promptitude. Observa
tions of a contrary kind, he knew, had got into
the newspapers, which he thought were very un
candid ajid improper—but he was sorry to hear
such obfervationsfrom the members of thishoufe
The present petition, however, is not, said he,
from a Western county.
The motion for the reference was agreed to.
On the Report of the Select Committee refpefliag Re
ceipts and Expenditurts of Pub lie Monies.
Mr. Livernrore rose for enquiry as to the de
nomination of legislative proceedings which this
report was to receive, whether it was to be en
acted into a law, or to be considered as a (landing
rule of the house.
Mr. Gerry replied—He said the objetft was to
obtain such information, from time to time, as
was necedary to forming a judgment relpedting
the propriety of additional taxes. The com"
mittee has taken such steps as they thought pro
per—the result is before the house, and it re
mains for them to dispose of it as they may think
proper—he however thought that there would be
a propriety in making it a standing rule of the
house—he said it would be adting agreeable to
the Constitution, which expressly fays that such
an account (hall be exhibited.
Mr. Livermore said he could net fee any pro
priety in this mode of proceeding—he was in fa
vor of as full an investigation into the expendi
tures of public money as any man—but he tho't
that no rule or standing order of the house could
controul the law. A law is already enacted for
the regulation of the Treasury Department ii
this law is defective, it may be amended—but he
had no idea of* doing buiincfs in tliis way.
the gentleman has observed, wa have a right tc
call for such an account whenever we please a
greeable to laws already ena<fted, and therefor*
the reflations appear to be fnperceded—befules
he doubted whether the power of this house ex
tended to the making rules which fjiall bind an'
future C f
-ongrefs.
Mr. Giles undertook to (hew, from the Confti
ution, that one Congress had a right to prescribe
ules for a subsequent shewed that
everal difad vantages would accrue from thecon
rary position, and in fad: do already exist in con
eqttence of the house having atfed on the oppo
lte luppofiuon. '
Mr. Gerry contended that the regulation pro
ofed was ncceffary, in order to securing this im
portant objert-the house has a right to call for
his information ; the Conftieution has made it
our duty to do i o, and we have a right,to fay in
what manner and at what periods this informa
tion lhall be received.
Mr. Bourne said he conceived the resolutions
were entirely fuperfluous, as the law was exprels
on the fubjecft. He called for the reading the
law—which was done. s
Mr. Barnwell spoke in favor of the resolutions—
Mr. Livermore denied the right of one house
to impose rules on another_He said the supposi
tion, in his opinion, was contrary to several ex
pvefs provisions in the Condition ; to prove
* refcrred t0 Several pans of the inftru-
310
Mr. Murray Was of opinion that the practice of
the house jultified the adoption of the resolutions
now under consideration—he referred to the Se
cretary of the Treasury's report 011 maoufa&ures
which had been ordered by a former house and'
received by the present. '
Mr. Gerry,'in reply to Mr. Bourne, observed,
(hat the article in the law jo ft read, had refpec't
only to the eflimates of receipts and expenditures.
An eflimate, he supposed, was a very different
thingfrom an account.
Mr. Williamfon fuppofted the resolutions He
said the present Congress had.a right to make
such rules and regulations refpeding ihe treasu
ry as they thought proper; and to fay thatthofe
rules shall be perpetual—still a future Congress
may repeal them, and establish others which they
may fay fnall be (landing rules.
Mr. Niles wished foine rules similar to those
proposed fhocM be adopted—He denied the risht
of one Congress, in its rliles and
bind another. On this principle, the present
house may chufe a speaker for a subsequent house.
The question never has been for repealing the
rules and regulations of a former house ; but
whether they shall be adopted ?— He wished for
a law on the subject, but w as oppoled tp the bn
linefs in its present form.
Mr. Clark was in favor of adopting some m«a
fures to obtain the information in question—but
he thought the present house had no more right
to bind a future house by a (landing rule iij this
refpedt, than they have to fay that the speaker
of the next house (hall wear a tye wig He moved
an amendment, by makingtherefolution toread
" that the return (hould be made on the foiirth
Monday of October next." This motion was se
conded, but not agreed to.
One of the resolutions offered by the commit
tee, after some modification, was agreed to ; the
other rejected.
MONDAY, January 23
A letter from the Comptroller of the Treasury
was read, inclosing a statement of the extra ex
pences, not allowed, incurred by the Commissi
oners appointed to treat with the Creek Indians.
Sundry petitions for pensions, compenfatious,
&c. were read and referred.
The order of the day being called for, on the
report of the Secretary of the Treasury on the
petition of Catharine Greene, several member
objected to taking op this business, being of a
private nature, while matters of the greatelt
public importance demand the immediate atten
tion of Congress. . The question being taken,
the motion for going into a committee of the
whole on this bnfinefs was carried, 21 to 16
And Mr. Livermore took the chair.
After a lengthy debate, the question was put
for agreeing to the fir ft resolution, in the fol
lowing words :
*' Resolved, as the opinion of this committee,
That the estate of tlVe late Major General Grcyne
ought tofce indemnified for the engagements en
tered into by that General, with certain persons
in the State of South-Carolina, for the purpose
of obtaining supplies for the army of the United
States, under his command, in the year 1783.
Which was negatived, 28 to 25.
The committee then rose, and the chairman
reported that the committee of the whole house
had had under consideration a report of the.Se
cretary of the Trea(ury on the petition of Catha
ri.ie Greene—and had come to no resolution
thereon.
Mr. Macon then moved that the committee of
the wnole should be discharged from any further
proceedings on the fubjecft— which motion was
agreed to.
Mr. Bourne then laid on the table a refolutien
for referring the Secretary's report,together with
Mis. Greene s petition, and the vouchers accom
panying it, to a feledi committee, with instruc
tion to enquire into the facfts which rendered it
neceflhry tor General Greene to become security
to Banks arid Co. and the nature, circumstances,
ami amount of the original debt, and the obliga
tions entered into by General Greene for pay
meat thereof; with an account of the monies or
collateral security received by the obligees, or by
General Greene in his life time, or his represen
tatives since his death, in part thereof ; and the
eventual lof's which his estate will sustain in con
sequence of the said securities s—and5 —and after exa
mining all the circumstances, and such further
evidence as may be offered relative to the tranf
acftion, to report their opinion thereon to the
house.
A mefTage was received from the President of
the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, con
veying certain documents received from the Le
gislature of the State of Virginia, refpediing lands
located by the officers and soldiers of the Virgi
nia line, under the laws of that State, and lince
ceded to the Chicafaw Indians.—Also informing
the house, that the President had this day ap
proved signed an acft for extending the time
limiited for fettling the accounts of the United
Siaies with the individual States.A report from the Secretary of the Treasury
was read, purfuanc to the order of the house of
the 19th instant—accompanied with sundry esti
mates —which were ordered to be printed.
Mr. Ficzfimons moved that the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury 011 the subjeCt of Manu
faftures.flifuld be referred to a fele'dt committee.
Mr. Giles ("aid he fiiould prefer a reference to
the committee of the whole house—He oblerved
that if the gentleman had read it with as much
attention as he had, he would consider it as con
taining propofitjons which merited the attention
of the committee of the whole.
The motion for a select committee was nega
tived, 24 to 31. It was then voted that the re
port be referred to a committee ot the whole, and
made the order of the day for Monday next.
The report of the feleilt committee on a letter
from the Attorney-General, communicated to the
house by the President of the United States, was
taken into consideration, and agreed to—and a
committee appointed to report a bill accordingly.
The meflage of the President of this day, re
fpecfting the bounty lands to the officers and sol
diers of the Virginia line, it was voted ihould be
referred to a committee formerly appointed on
the fame fubjeift. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, January 24.
A petition of Louis Gualanjcau, for himfelf and brother, was
read, and referred to a feleft committee, confiding of Mr. Daytoa,
Mr. Williamfon, and Mr. W. Smith.
A petition of Henry Walton, in behalf of himfelf and lifters,
was read, praying compensation forloffes sustained in the late war-
Referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Lawrance, of ihe committee appointed for the purpose, re
ported a " bill concerning the office of the Attorney-General of
the United States," which was read a firft and second time, and
referr* d to a committee of the whole house.
On motion of Mr. Benfon, the houfc rcfolved itfclf iqto a com
mittee of the vhole, and tcok into consideration sundry propor
tions refpefting the apportionment of representatives among the
people of the several (lates.
The proportions were as follow :
That it is the opinion of this committee that a bill ought to be
prepared, apportioning representatives among the several (laics,
according to the fiift enumeration—and for making provision for
a second enumeration—and for an apportionment of reprelenta
tion thereon, to compose the House of Representatives after the
3d day of March,l797.
Qn motion of Mr. Gerry, and by consent of Mr. Benfon, (the
original mover of the proportions) the following claufc was added
And that the committee do not report a greater ratio than
30,000 inhabitants, to every reprefentanve.
A motion to strike out the last clause occasioned some debate,
and was finally negatived. The foregoing proportions being
agreed to by the committee, were reported by the Chairman to the
houfc '-who took the fame into consideration.
Mr. Dayton moved that the report Ihould beamended, by link
ing out the whole after the words " firfl enumeration," in the firft
propofuion. This motion, after some debate, was divided—and
the ayes and noes being called on ihe propofuion providing for a
second enumeration, the motion for ftrikmg out was negatived,
36 to 23. The motion to (Irike out the last clause, designating the
ratio ot representation, was carried in the affirmative—Ayes 33,
Noes e6.
A committee was thrn appointed to report a bill, confiding of
Mr. Benfon, Mr. Madison, and Mr. Gerry.
The House then took into confederation the amendments a
greed to by the committee of the whole, to the bill to ascertain
and regulate the claims to invalid pensions, &c.
These amendments were agreed to with amendments—additi
onal amendments were proposed, and agreed to. —The Houle ad
journed without finifhing the bill.
PITTSBURGH, January 7.
Extract of a letter jrom a gentleman at Fort-Frank
lin, to his correfpondait in this place, dated Decem
ber 29, 179 1
" I arrived at this place after a disagreeable
and fatiguing journey of fix days. Immediately
after my arrival we received very alarming news
from the Cornplanter, that the western Indians
were coming to cut off both him and us—the e
vent of this God only knows.—By accounts from
Indians we hear that 800 Canadians were in thq
adlion against our people the 4th of November
last, and that 100 Indians were killed, and 400
wounded at that.timc.
Fort-lVajhington, Nov. 21, 1791
My dear Sir,
I have the j>leal"ure to make for you, agreeably
;o your the following extract from gene
ral orders, and am, your molt obedient bumble
servant
Major Ha mtr am c k
Head-Quarters, Fort-Wujhington, Nov. 27, 1791.
Officers for the day, &c.
At the General Court Martial, whereof Major
. Clark, is President.
Major Hamtramck, commandaitt of the. fir#
United States Regiment, was tried upon the fol
lowing charges exhibited against him by. Lieut.*
Colonel Darke, of the levies.
Unufficet and unfoldierly behavior in ihatne
fully retreating from or for fear of the enemy
on the 4th initant : Also, for scandalous behavi
or in endeavouring to prevent a guard from go
ing wfth proviiions to relieve Fort-Jefferfon.
The Court are of opinion the charges exhibit
ed against Major Hamtratnck are not fupportjed,
and do acquit him with honor, which the Gene
ral approves, and diredis th*t he may be imme
diately released froin arraft, and hold himfelf
in readiness for command to Vincennes.
The Court Martial is diflolved
W. Sargent
WLNTHROP SARGENT.
Adjutant General
* V f
SECOND CONGRESS OF THF,UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia, in the State of Penn-
fylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT to extend the Time limited for fettling
the Accounts of the United States with the in
dividual States.
BE it enacted by the Senate and Honfe of Reorefentatives of the
United States of America, in Congress assembled, That the
powers of the Board of Commiflioners, which, by an ast passed in
the fccond session of the firft Congress, was eftablithed to fettle the
accounts between the United States and individual States, (hall
continue until the fiift day of July, 1793> un l e^s the business fliall
be sooner accomplilhed.
And be it further enacted, That the aforefaid ast ihall extend to
the settlement of the accounts between the United States and the
State of Vermont; and that until the fuft day of December next,
shall be allowed for the said State to exhibit its clairrts.
And be it further enacted, That from and after the parting of
this ast, the pay of the principal Clerk of the said Board, shall be
the fame as the pay of the principal Clerk in the Auditor's office.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Huuje of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prcfident oj the United States,
and Prejident oj the Senate.
APPROVED, JANUARY TWENTY-THIRD, 179 2
Philadelphia, January 25.
Extrafl of a lettekfront Bofion, dated January 15.
"■ A gentleman, who amoved in town last evening, from Port
land, informed me, that ju\&ef£>re he fat out from that place, a
vessel arrived there from the Weft-Indies—ihe Caplain of ..which
spoke within a few days fail of Hifpaniola, a French squadron,
a ftiip of the line, and 3 frigates, which had 011 board Count
Di L lon, and seven thouUnd troops, destined for Cape-Francois,
to quell the infurreftion of the negroes."
The adt providing for the defence of the Fron
tiers, and the a<ft to prevent the sale of Lottery
Tickets, have both received the Governor's aflent.
The committee appointed bytbeHoufe ofße
prefentatives on the petition of Thomas Leiper
and John M'llvaine, and others, beg leave to re
port that they have heard the parties concerned
for and against the opening a canal on the wa
ters of Crum Creek, and although your commit
tee feel a strong attachment to the improvement
of inland navigation by means of canals, yet they
at the fame time are sensibly impreflefl with the
nKeflity of preserving private rights, which they
ctmceive, ought never to be invaded, unless fonie
great public good is to be thereby obtained which
cannot be other wife required that the peace and
welfare of focifety depend so much upon the in
violability of individual property, that the legis
lature ihould at all times touch it with a sparing
and trembling hand. That the present cafe is
not one of those which will juftify the interfe
rence of this house—your committee therefore
offer the following resolution—
Resolved, That the prayer of Thomas Leiper's
petition cannot be granted.
Saturday last arrived in town from FortWafh
ington, Major-General St. Clair, Governor of
the Western Territory.
A letter from L'leut. Jeffers, dated Jan. 4, at
Fort Franklin, mentions that all was quiet there
at the date of his dispatches.
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS,
It is worthy of cor.fideration, how far the public good can be
supposed to be the obje& of those who censure public mcafures af
ter the event of them is known.—ln a free country, every citizen
is supposed to enjov the right of being fully informed of the rea
sons on which drafts on his pocket are founded—the motives of
< very public enterprize, and the condutt of every agent of public
ffairs.
How far these fubje&s have been disclosed, let the numerous
publications on each of them teftify—So fully are our civil rulers
imprefled with this idea, that the government is suspended on the
public confidence, that no parallel! in the history of society can be
produced,of so scrupulous and universal an attention to inform the
public mind. ,
Our government is young—this idea does not efcapc the notice
of its enemies. For, aftonifliing as it may appear, there are not
wanting those, even among persons of ability, who conceive tha
either their own advantage, or the pnblic happiness, is connected
with prostrating every barrier that defends the lives, the propertv,
the peace, liberty and fafety of the people ; hence they consider
the present as the favorable moment to attack the government—
This is done in various ways ; principally bv lies and misrepre
sentations—Truth they are sensible is not of their party; thev
therefore have never paid any court to its influence—they entrench
themselves in falfhood, and from thence they discharge their ar
rows tipped in gall ai>d venom. But the people fee and judge
for themselves ; and (hielded in an impenetrable confidence in
the men whom they have chosen to administer their governmrr t,
the efforts of anarchy prove abortive. But as every good thing in
this world must pay a tax, so the prosperity of our country
the general success of public measures, appear to have llirred up
the mod latent feeds of chagrin and vexation ; and hence we may
expect more last words from the dying struggles of an expiring
antipathy to the tranquility ot the United States.
311
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
Public credit depends principally on the view of sure, unmort
gaged, substantial revenues. If the 5 per cent, impolt had been
put into the hands of the old Congress, public credit would im
mediately hdve been reftoied. They never were accused of facri
ficing the public revenues to their own interest, or to the indul
gence of pulHons. There was always a fufficient confidence in
their wifdomand difmtereftcdnefs ; and their want of credit arote
entirely from their want of revenues.
The price of continental money, and of the other circulating
paper emitted by the old Congress, as it now fells in the London
market, does not (hew the (fate of the public creait of thiscoun
try, but only the operation of a particular law. I f any of the pa
per of the United States is now felling there from 120 to 150 per
cent, it only proves that we have allowed a high intcretl. A hito
dred dollars of the old continental bills now fell tor one dollar in
specie; but should Congress pass a law that they (houtd be re
deemed according to the original promise, and allow back interest
upon them from the time at which they ought to have been re
deemed, one dollar bill would then probably fell in the London
market for two dollars in specie ; but it would not be full proof
that the public ercdit oi this country was two hundred times bet
ter than it now is.
" In causes of defence, 'tis belt to weigh
The enemy more mighty than he seems ;
So the proportions of defence arc fill'd,
Which of a weak and niggardly projection,
Doth like a miser spoil his coat with scanting
Of a little clolh."
To effect any object the means muftbe proportioned to the end'
and fomcthing should be added tor contingencies.
What prudent Captain bound on a month's voyage, would re*
drift his ships Itbres to thirty days allowance ?
What the plan of our future military operations will be, time
will disclose—but we may jullly expect, that, guided by experi
ence, government will adopt the mod economical plan, by making
thctnoft ample provision for the effective defence of the frontiers.
There are always existing in every country, and under the best
governments, real or imaginary causes of complaint—these are
occasionally made nfe of to answer the purposes of individuals;
experience shews us in the hiftotyof free countries particularly,
that the public good is not contemplated by the majority of pub
lic complainants.
In Great-Britain this obferviti m has been verified in the most
striking manner, a thousand times. Stockjobbing is the spring
that gives motion to the pen of (lander, defamation, and falfe re
ports; if the credit or ftabilitv of the miniiler, or his plans can
thereby be affected, the object of such perfonsis gained—for the
decline of the ftoeks is the buying season—and innumerable arc
the arts employed on such occasions.
America has a debt—fpeculaiions in this debt have become a
gteat object to monied men, both natives and foreigners. lit
great rife of late, it is said, has been contrary to the expectations
of many ; thole who have waited for a Jail —and those who have
recently fold out, are interested in a rcduftion of the current
price.
Whatever motives of patriotism may have influenced the au
thors of some late ftri&urcs on the conduct of the Secretary of the
Treasury, it is highly presumable, that those publications are
the work of, or instigated by, ihe buyers q[ the public debt, par
ticularly some foreign ones.
It has been obfei ved that every measure of government which
has been in the remotell degree calculated to promote manufac
tures in this countrfy has received some opposition. But, fays a
correspondent, it is undoubtedly a criterion ot patriotism to af
ford them due encouragement ; nor is it easy to conceive, how
any man, even from the Southern States, can be inimical to the
cftablifhment of those branches of them, which experience shews,
we need not be any longer dependant on Europe tor.
In Europe, manufacturers and artizans are said to be but a de
gree removed from slaves, In the United States this can never be
the cafe, so lopg as our millions of unlocated territory remain to
be fettled ; nor does it follow of course, that because the Euro
pean artificer receives but a mere pittance for his labor—the Ame
rican manufacturers should be a meagre, pale, starveling crew of
cmaciated wretches ; the heavy chaiges of importation which
will be saved, will enable us to give an enhanced price to our
workmen ; and the cheapness of our raw materials is another
great advantage.
How far Lu x u R y is or is not beneficial or pernicious to a state,
has been a qurition of much fanciful and ingenious dilcuffion—-
which remains, and will remain, unfcttled. In relation to very
rich countries, much may be fa id in its favor. Perhaps it is in
such countries necefTary to diffufe the wealth among the commu
nity, which might otherwise stagnate in a few hands, and to give
support to a great number of industrious individuals, who might
otherwise want it. But in a country which is not rich, or, like
the United States, in a state of mediocrity, as to wealth, which does
not abound with a variety of elegant manufactures for the lupport
of" its luxury,butis obliged to derivea supply of them fron? abroad,
in exchange for the fimpAe produ&ions of the foil, or some tem
porary and adventitious resource, there can be no danger of
mistake in pronouncing that luxury, or expenjive living, is the moth
of public happiness. It cannot require the gift of prophecy to
foretell that the degree of it, whieh at present exists, will prepare
the way for public distress at a period not far diilant. It is then
a clear dut) of patriotism to discountenance it, and to clieiifh, by
example and precept, frugality and moderation.
TICKETS.
OUR politics have got the rickets,
Hencc they forbid the |j|le of tickets;
But laws that run againit the grain,
Will (hew their obje£l is in vain—
The world, whate'er Tome people fay,
Like hogs will run the contra way—
Since fortune evermore advises,
That tickets bo't by stealth are prizes.
Married, on Thursday evening last, Joseph Stretch, Efq„
to Miss Si by l Matlack, daughter of Timothy Matlack, Esq.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 25/9 pr. £
3 pr. Cents 15/4
Defered 6 pr.Cent.« 15(8
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 22f 110 do.
Indents 15/ 75 do.
Bank Stock—half shares 112 per cent premium.
—whole shares 60 per cent.
Post-Office, Philadelphia, Jan. 24,179 1 .
(t3T LETTERS for the British Packet, the Queen, Capt. Rat
cliff, for Falmouth, will be received at this office until Tuesday
morning N the 3 1 ft inft. at 8 o'clock.
American Apollo.
SUBSCRIPTIONS tor THE AMERICAN APOLLO,
A new Publication, just commenced in Boston,
ARE RECEIVED BY THE EDITOR. HEREOF.
LUXURY.
128J pr. cent.
7 6f do.
7 8i do.PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
PE R QUANTITY
January 25. —Dollars 100 Cents each,
ANCHORS pr.lb. jc 8c Pitch, pr. bbl.
Allum, fcnglilh, pr.c. 73c Pork, Burlington,
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. tic Lower county gd 3 jC
Aihcs, pot, per ton, god tood Carolina 8d
Pearl, Peas, Albany pr. bush. *30
Arrack pr. gall, id 33c id 6jc Pepper, pr. lb. 44c 47c
Brandy, common, id 11c Pimento 19c 20c
—-Cogmac id tec id 30c Rajs bfft .
Braz.letto.pr.ton. 37 <<33C4ci N D|Uo J » .
Br.cks, pr. M. 4d 5 d Djtto H J box
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. id 88c2d R|cc 1 cwl . t J 67C2 J*
Ditto, pilot 3*6 7 c RoCn "* bW . 2</33c 67c
Ditto, fm.ll water 36c 40c « mi|ca «
Beer, American, m l Antigua 87c
bot pr.doz. bot. incl. j S Windward 73 c 77c
7r? r ; vrf , iJ § Barbadoes 73c
g f Oak pr.M feet, I Country, N. E. 4"
Q | Merch. pine 16a 17a - 7
4 Sap, do. id 50c g;/ Salt petre, pr. cwt. 13J33c 14^
q | —N. Eng. ti</ Salfafras pr. ton 6d id
03 Cedar Sliot iqod
The above are the Shallop prices \ j f German pr.lb. gc
for the Yard prices add \d 33c w ) English, blistered cwtiorf
pr.M. \ VVmerican pr. ton-. 131/33 C
Bnmftone rolls pr.cwt. 3 d (/> ( Crowley's pr. fjg \od6-jc
u. f IrilH pr. bbl. Snake root pr. lb. 20c 42c
2 < Bnfton yd id Soap, Brown 6c
£3 ( Country 6d 7d White 8c
Butter pr. lb. >6c Castile >ic
in kegs toe 12c Starch "fc
f Sper. pr.lb. 43c Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4*? $d 60c
j | Wax 53c 56c Spermaceti, refined, 48c
Myrtle Wax 13c Sail cloth, Englilh,
5 | Mould,tallow ii( No 1, per yard, J
(j LDipped 10c Boston, No. I. 30c
Cheese, English, pr. lb. 19c No. 11. 29 r
— Or 'r -
Country oc 10c
Chocolate *5 C
Cinnamon 2d 40 c 2d 67c
Cloves
Coal pr. bushel 20c 22c
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10d 67c 11 d 33 c
Coffee pr. lb. 17c 18c
Copperas pr. cwt. \d67c
Cordage idS-jcKd
Cotton pr. lb. 23c 34c
Currants l 3 c
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece \id^c
Ravens 8d 93c 9 d 67c
Feathers pr. lb. 40c 44c
Flax •
Flaxfeed pr. bu(h. 85c gnc Do. red cedar, p. f. 33c 40,
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. §d Shinglei, (h. p. M. id 33c id 67
Common, \d 74 c Do. long dreflfed \zd\3d33c
Bur middlings,belt \d 13c Scantling, heart, 231/33 c
-< Meal,lnd'an id 67c Sap 8a 8d 67c
Ship-ftuff pr.cw. \dld33c pipe pr. iqoo ooi
Fustic pr. ton, 20d „J w Q hog(hca a lgrf 3y
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe, > J R. O. do. isd 50c
Do. pr. gall. 80c < I Leogan i6d
Glue, pr. cwt. 20d 2\d 33c £ Barrel 10d
Ginger, whiterace LHcading 26d 6 c
Ditto, common yd 20c f Otter, best pr. pie. <\d6jc
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9c Minks 20c 40c
Ginseng, . 2cc 24c Fox, grey 40c Bjc
Gunpowder, can-{ , > ——red id2oc
non, pr. q. c. > 2 Martins 24c id
Ditto, fine glazed 4d <j Fishers . 33c 67c
"Wheat pr. bush 90c 93c Bears 3 d
Rye 5 0c 54 c Racoons 27c 60c
2 Oats 26c Musk-rats lif 20c
Indian corn 40c 44c Beaver, pr. lb. 67c id 33c
Barlev 60c 63c Deer, in hair 2Cc 3cc
o Beft(bellrdpj.lb. 3C f , j
(.Buckwheat per bu(h 40, _ C ,J > gall. J 33 c,^c
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, nod >46. 67c Turpentlne J p , B bb i. t f 6yc^
American, pr. . 41:$ c , James R. heft 3d 601 73c
Herrings, P' -bbl 2d6 7 c J i„[ enot s d6 7 c 3d
Hides, raw pr. Ib. 9cue 0 nla
, , .. ''j " Rappahannock id 50c -id
Hogthead hoops, pr. M i s d q" Colo Mar\land ,51/33 cßi
Indigo, French lb. ldioc \d33c u Dark 2d 40c
Carolina 40c id Long-leaf 2d 40c
Irons, fad pr. ton, 33c Eastern-shore 2d<?d9sc
I* Cartings pr. cwt, O Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
SK j Bar pr. ton, B?.i old do.
j-J-4 Pig ( Hyson pr. lb. 93c id 28c
_ (Sheet 33c j Hyson (kin, 53c 67c
Nail rods 96d Souchong, 50c 93c
funk, pr. cwt. 41 §d j Congo, 43c 50c
-ard, hogs pr. lb. 9c io« l_Bohea, 34c 36c
.ead in pigs pr.c. s</33C Tallow, refined 9c
in bars d Tin pr. box, 13d33c67c
Lead, white \ad\oi6Tc ■ r
red 6d A oc6J6-c y cld pr. lb. 47, 53,
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c Iyc 20c v^To,' 0 " 1 * T
Lignum vita- pr. ton, fjd 60c 6d 4, ' 33 c 3/ c
Logwood 24d f Madeira, pr. p. 106^2000?
Mace pr. lb. yd 33c G~c '1 Lisbon g6diood
Mackarel, best pr. bbl.° gd Teneriffe, pr. gal. 51C60C
f cond quality 6i 6yc w | Fayal 44c 49c
Madder, best pr. lb. 16c 20c SS J P r - P- 67c 120 d
Marble.wrought, pr.f. D<». in bottles.pr. doz. \d
Ma ft spars 33c 67c Claret 6d
MolafTes pr. gall. 41c 45c Sherry pr.gall. 90c xdzoi
Mnftard per. lb. 87c „Malaga 77,80
Mahogany pr. foot, ior
Nails, \od\zd and zed 10c
Nutmegs pr. lb.
'Linseed, pr. gall. $oe
Olive 87 c
Ditto pr. cafc, 2d $cc
. Beftfwectin ) .
— flafks,pr.box \
® —baskets 12 bottles
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
Train 24C27C
_ Whale 2£c 28c
Porter pr. cask, $d 33c
London,pr.doz. id6oc
Porter, American ) ,
pr.doz. bot.incl. {
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
uiiu UVliX^ri
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Stieet,bet-ween Chefir.it and MarkctStreeti.
id 73 c 2d
10d 33 c
Ruflia ftieeting, pr.p. 12d
rLump, pr. lb. 18c
Loaf, (ingle refined 25c
j Diteo, double do. 33**
y j Ilavannah, white 16c 1
So Ditto, brown, 12c 14
LMufco.pr.cwt
Spirits Turpentine p. g. 33c37*
f Allum pr. bulb. 24c 2 c
j 31c
<J ) Cadiz 23c 24c
1/5 ( Lisbon 2ac 26c
Ship build. W. 0.1 d j
frames p. ton, J v oo
Do. L O. isd 33c i6d6yc
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25c 27c
Whale-bone,long pr.lb. 13C30C
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days | }
60 days > pr.cent. prem.
30 aays 2^)
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder,
90 days
Government bills, drawn at 10
days per 11 guilders, 44*
France, 60 days 80c
POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, January 9th. 1792.
ESTABLISHMENT ofthcMAlUSjor'tfreYear 1792
WHICH IS TO COMMENCE THE SIXTEENTH INSTANT.
The EASTERN MAIL will be closed on
Mondays "| -
Tuesdays j at half part eight o'clock in the morning, and
Wednefdavs reach New-York at two o'clock, P.M. on
Thursdays and | cach fucceedirig day.
Fridays J
The Mail from New-York will be closed there on the fame
days, and at the fame time in the morning; and
Arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesdays
Wednesdays |
Thursdays Y at one o'clock, P. M.
Fridays and
I
The SOUTHERN MAIL will be closed on
Saturdays
Mondays ~) at half pall nine o'clock, A. M. (reaching Bal-
Wednesdays and > timore on cach fticceeding day at 3 o'clock,
Fridays ) P. M.) and
Arrive at Philadelphia o-n
Tuesdays }
Thursdays and > at one o'clock, P. M.
Saturdays )
The MAIL for the EASTERN SHORE of MARYLAND,
as far as CHESTERTOWN, will be closed 011
Mondays } at O » c i oc k i n the morning, (reaching
Fvfdays yS ' n \ Cheftcrtowr, each succeeding day) and
Arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesdays at OIJe p. M. in summer, and at two
Thursdays and |> o'clock, P. M. in winter.
oaturdays )
The MAIL for CHESTER-MILLS and EASTON, will leave
Philadelphia every Monday with the other Mails for the Eaftem
Shore, and reiurn with the fame every Saturday from November
ift to May ift, and every Thursday the reft of the year.
The MAIL for DUCK-CREEK C ROSS-ROADS & DOVER,
will also leave Philadelphia every Monday with the Eastern Shore
Mail, and return with the fame every Thursday throughout the
year.
The MAIL for PITTSBURG, will lea*e Philadelphia every
Saturday at ten o'clock, A. M. and the Mail from Pittfburg will
arrive at Philadelphia every Friday at noon.
pf That there may be time to make up the numerous Mails
destined for each loute above mentioned, all letters must be leit; at
the poft-office half an hour before the times of closing the respec
tive Mails in wh eh they are to be sent.
As there are several places of the fame name in the United
States, the merchants and others are requested to be very particu
lar in the direction nf their letters ; and when letters are not for a
poll town,the nearest poll town to the place ought to be mentioned.
ROBERT PATTON, Post-Master.
American Lead Manufadtory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoiningtheir New Factory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general aflort
tnent ofSHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English woikmen, they wairant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrefTed to either of the
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully and execnted on the
Ihorteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouiing Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of MefTrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their Fa6tory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, Dectv-btr 3, 1791
War Department.
January 2, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they are intitled
for fix months of their annual pension, fiom the 4th day of Sep
tember, 1791, and which will become due on the sth day of
March, 1792, will be paid on the said day by the CommiiTioners
of the Loans within the states refpeflively, under the ufiul regu
lations, viz.
Every application for payment must be accompanied by the
following vouchers.
id. The certificate given by the state, fpccifying that the per
son pofTefling the fame is in fa£l an invalid, and ascertaining the
sum to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form
A. B. came before one of the Jufticesof the county of
intheftate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to
whom the original certificate in his oofTdlion was given, of which
the following is a copy (the certificate given by the flare to be re-
That he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the time he
was ai fa bled, and that he now resides in the and county of
and has resided therefor the last years, previous to which he
rcfided in 4
In cafe an invalid {hould apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, mull
produce a.special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form
I, A. B. of county of state of do hereby consti
tute and appoint C. D. of mv lawful attorney, to receive in my
behalf of my pension for fix months, as an invalid of the Uni
ted States, from the fourth day of September, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand fevrn hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and sealed
in the pre fence of
Witnefles.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and ad mini ft ratorsmuft he accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpcfhve offices, and also ot the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refpeftive states are requeued to publish
the above in their newfpapcrs, for the space of two months.
Public Securities,
Bovcht and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chcfnut-Street,next door to tht Bank, No. 97,
312
TO BE SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant situation on the banks of t! •
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the fub
fcribcr now resides; about 25 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvemeni s, which arc a neat and commodious two story hoofe*
compleatly finifhed from the cellar to the garret, a kitchen, laun
dry, meat-house, datrv,two story bam, and ice house. all finifhed
in the bell manner, together with several other neceftarv outhouses
the yard and gaiden neatly paled, and a fkillful gardner now em
ployed inputting it in fine order; the land well enclosed with 4
port and rail fence ; a well, and fp rings of excellent water—the
profpeft is equalled by few, and excelled by none in America
its contiguity to Alexandria, the Federal Town, and George-
Town, having a fine and lull view of each place, must render it in
a few years of gr at value, being dire&ly in a line of communica
tion from Alexandria to the other-two towns. Should a purchases
offer before.the lyb of February next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indifpu table title, cle'ar of all will be made
by the fubferiber. I will also fell with this place, *220 Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 miles diftanf, which will suit well to sup
port the above in wood and timber.
December 14, 17*91
SALES
Of the real Eltate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Tovvnfhip of Ben Tele m, in the County of Bucks,
Esquire, deceased, pursuant to the Directions
ofhis I ast Will and Testament.
ON Tutfday the 27th of March next will be exposed to Sale*
by way of Public Vendue, on the premises—One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, situate on the river Delaware; on
which is er*cled a handfonie two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, rwo kitchens, a good barn,(tables, hay-house,
and other convenient outhoufc s. A good orchard of the best kind
of grafted fruit, now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in
and in good order; and a (had and herring fifbery before the door.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a fuflßciency of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the pofl-road.
One other very valuable Farm, acljoining'rhe above ; containing
about two hundred and seven acres, the greatest part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, Oahies,
and other outhouses, with a young thriving orchard of the best
grafted fruit, and a shad and herring fiftiery. It has long been a
well accustomed tavern ; and the ferry belonging to it, knoWn bv
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both thq above places afford the best profped'ts on the
liver, and are rem??kably healthy-
One other small Farm, containing about fixty-thrre acrrs, fifu
ate in the township of Southampton, in the lounty aforefaid ; on
which are erefled two log-houses. There is a small orchard, and
a great fufficiency of wood-land and meadow giound.
One Lor. containing four acres, situate on the great post-road
leading from Philadelphia to \ T ew-York, and ten milts from the
former. On it is a good log d welling-houfe, and u ork-fhop ad
joining, with a well of excellent water at the door: now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame time and dace. will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniiure, Farming Utenfjls» and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchase
money to be paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments with interest.
jOHtf SWIFT, )
JOH N M. NESBIT, £ Executors.
(er>tm*j) SAMUEL BEN T EZET, )
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER 8c AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcription,on£o»/s/sfo»,
at the following rates:
OV the specie amount of ali sales at au&ion, one eighth per
cent. ✓
On ditto at private sale or purchase, one-halj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount ot the interest.
For making transfers at iiuo,fevevtv./ive cents per transfer,
(ps Such persons as may incline to favor the subscriber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed witty pun&uaiity,
fidelity and difbatch. His long experience and extensive dealings
in the public stocks, together with a well ellablithed correfptw
dence throughout the Unued States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
\eiv-York, N0.57, Kittg-Streei.
October 15, 1791
Annapolis, January 1, 1792.
At a Meeting of the Visitors and Governors of St. Joh.v's College,
in the State of Maryland, on Thursday the 10th of Novem
ber last,
RESOLVED,
THAT this Board, at the quarterly meeting in May next, pro
reed to ele6l a Vice-Principal of St. John's College.
" That it be the duty of the Principal and Vice-Principal, to
teach some of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek, certain
parts of the Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural PhiU>fo
phy ; and that the departments of the said Principal and Vicp-
Principal fViall heieafter be alcertaincd with precision, on confe
derations of their mutual convenience and refpeflive qualifications.
That the Vice-Principal shall be entitled to receive, for hisler
vices, a (alary ot three hundred and fifty pounds, current money»
rating dollars at 7/6 eai h, to be paid quarterly.
persons deftrous of, and qualified for the appointment of
Vice-Principal, be, by public advertisement. requeftcd to make ap
plication to Mr. Charles Wallace, Mr. Charles Carroll of Carroll
ton, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hanfon, all of the city of Anna
polis. By order of the Board,
JOHN THOMAS, President.
N. B. The fundamental Laws of St. John's College prohibit all
prcfe.rence on account of religious tenets or opinions.
As the appointment of a Vice-Principal is alone wanted, t<*
compleat the plan of this rising seminary, the Board will certaiply
proceed to the clettion at the dated time; provided a person qua
lified, in their judgment, for this important Ration, can be pro
ceed. The personal attendance of the candidates, although not
positively required, will be obvioufiy proper.
It mav be ufeful to remark, that the falariesof all the profefTors
and teachers have hitherto been paid withentire punctuality ; and
that the funds ot St. John's College produce a certain annual >n
eome, fupenor to all the appropriations, which have been, or pio
bably will be made.
Th<* Printers of newspapers throughont the United State":,
earnettly requeued ro insert ihe above resolve and remarks—
and 'o repeat the publication as often as convenience will permit.
Blank Powers to receive for the transjer oj the
orinripa) of Public iM, agreeable to the Rules eflablifhed in theTrea
fury Department: AlJ'y BlanhsjorabJlraSs ofCertiJicatcS) tobefcldii
tne Editor.
BALDWIN DADE.