A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. jj, of Vol. IV.]
RUN AWAY from the fubfcuotr, living in
Kent Countv, and State of Maryland, on
Sunday the 27th May last, a NEGRO MAN,
named Hark ; about 40 years of age, about five
feet nine inches high, has a fear over one of his
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs his head on
one fide, and looks up—had on and took with
h« 71 the followingcloaths, viz. a fearnought coat,
a black and white kersey coat, cut round, a white
kersey jacket and breeches, two pair of yarn flock
ings, the one pair lately footed, and the other not,
two oznaburgh shirts, each pieced on one fide,
two pair of tow-linen trowfers, one pair patched
with new tow-linen dovrn the fore parts, and an
old felt hat.
Whoever takes up said Negro, if out of this
State,and secures him in gaol, shall receive FOUR
TEEN DOLLARS reward—and if taken within
this State, and secured as aforefaid, shall receive
EIGHT DOLLARS reward ; and it brought
home, reasonable expences will be paid by
PEREGRINE LETHRBURY
Chefler-Town, June 4, 1791. (ep 8w )
Thirty Dollars Reward.
PUN AW AY from the fubferiber in February
last. a NEGRO LAD, named PHIL, about
20 years of age; had on when he went away, a
round jackct, a pair homespun breeches, and a tow
Ihirt; the fellow has a yellowish complexion, his
heighth about five feet fix or seven inches, very
square made ; has a mark along fide of his nose.
and one of his insteps has been burnt, which causes
the sinews to draw.
Whoever takes un said Negro, and secures him
in any iail, so that I may get him again, (ball re
ceive the above reward, and have all reasonable
charges paid. ROBERT PEARCE.
HtaiSajafnts, June 16, 1792,
JUST PUBLISHED.
AMD TO BE SOLD (PRICE 10f.)
By HAZARD and ADDOMS,
At the corner of Third & Chefnut Streets,
THE
HISTORY
N e\v-Hamp{hire,
Vol. 11l
Containing a geographical description of the
Staic with {ketches oi it* natural hiltory, pro
ductions, improvements, and present state of so
ciety and manners t laws and government.
By Je remy BIUKAr, A.M.
This volume compicats the history, and is
pe uliarly interesting. Subscribers arc detired
to call for their books.
ADVERTISEMENT.
I DO hereby give notice to all person?, not to
oedit any person or persons whatever on my
account, othcrwife in my name, or on my credit,
•without Ipecial order from under mv hand au
thorizing the fame, as I am determined not to pay
anv debt or d. bts contrasted without tuch order
being produced.
rjj -r , THOMAS JONES.
Fieaertci-Toain, Junes, 1792. (ep4w)
WM. CLE LAND,
boston,
Tranfach buHneft in the Funds of the United
States;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, £:c.
itS- Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any otner part of the Union, will be attended to
wuh Diligence and Punctuality. i
(epim & iauiim)
fßOit THE NATIONAL GAZETTE.
A CONSTITUTION
OR FORM OF COV BR NMS NT
for tri itati or KENTUCKY.
' ,h „ R of the People of the Stale
of Kentucky, in Convention aflcmbled, do or.
and ">•» Constitution for its Go
vernment.
ARTICLE I.
tc. l.T'ilE powers of government (hall be di
„ . * v, lr l d ulto l hreediftmft department,
each „f Ihcm lo he confined to a fepa.ate body o!
I « h "l'which are le,. fLlive tr
h frl h /" " CU '' Ve to anoth ". '"<1
thofc which are judiciary to anothet
U.lf' *' N : 0 , P V r " n °' ""'■fli™ of perfoos be-
X ' w f'P""ncn.,, ihail rx.rofe anv
P"»er properly belonging ,o eithfr ol the others'
Sec. 3* The leg'flative DOWrr n» »k
weaJ»h jKjli k 11 C P () *« of Ihs common.
c.i. n Ihdl be vcftedin afriie m „i
Si-* - «-StWK|
c lect. t >os may be continued for three davs
months thereof aa inhabitant of the county Z
which he m»y fccchofen; unlrfs he {hall hav;
been absent on the public buGnefs of the United
States, or of this (late.
Sec. 6. Within two years after the firft meeting
of thegtneral afiemblv, and within every subse
quent term of four years, an enumeration of the
free male inhabitants above 21 years of age, (hall
be made in such a manner as may be dircfted by
law. The number of representatives (hall at the
several periods of making such enumeration be
fixed by the legislature, and apportioned among
the several counties, according to the number of
Tree male inhabitants above the age of 21 years in
each, and (hall never be less than 40 nor greater
than 100; but no county hereafter ercfted, fnall
he entitled to a separate representation, until a fuf
ficient number of free male inhabitants above the
age of 21 years shall be contained within it, to
entitle them to one representative agreeable to the
ratio which shall then be eftabliflied.
Sec. 7. The Senators (hall be chosen for four
years.
Sec. 8. Until the firft enumeration be made, the
Senate (hall consist of 11 members, and thereafter
for every 4 members added to the house of repre
sentatives, one member (hall be added to the Se
nate.
Sec. g. In chuiing the Senate, one member at
least (hall be ele&ed from each county, until the
number of counties is equal to the number of Se
nators : after which, when a new county is made,
it (hall, as to the choice of Senators, be considered
as being a part of the county or counties fiom
which it fhali have been taKen.
Sec. is. The Senate (hall be chosen in the fol
lowing manner : All persons qualified 10 vote for
representatives, shall on the firft Tuesday in May
in the present year, and on the fame day in every
4th year for ever thereafter, at the place appoint
ed by law forchufing representatives, cleci by bal
lot, by a majority of votes, as many persons as
they are entitled to have for representatives for
their refpeftive counties, to be elettors of the
Senate.
(*epim)
Sec. :r. No person (hall be chofcn an ele&or,
who ftir'l not have vended in the (late three years
next before his ele&ion, and who (ball not have
attained the age of twcnty.fevcn years.
Sec. 12. The electors of the Senate (hall meet
at such place as (hall be appointed for convening
the legislature, on the third Tuesday in May in
the prefept year, and on the fame day in every
fourth year forever thereafter; and they or a ma
jority of thero so met, (hall procecd to ele£t by
ballot as Senators, men of the mod wildom, ex
perience and virtue, above 27 years of age, who
shall have been residents of the state above two
whole years next preceding the eleflion. If on
the ballot two or more persons shall have an equal
number of ballots in their favor, by which the
choicc (ball not be determined by the fuft ballpt,
then the electors shall again ballot before they *e
parate. in Arhichthey sHall be confined to the per
sons who on the firft ballot fliall have had an equal
number, and they who fnall have the greatest num
ber in their favor on the second ballot, (ball be ac
cordingly declared and returned duly elected ;
and if on the second ballot an equal number shall
still be in favor of two or more persons, then the
ele&ion (hall be determined by lot, between those
who have equal numbers ; which proceedings or
electors shall be certified under their hands,
and returned to the Secretary for the time being ;
to whom shall also be made by the proper officers,
returns of the persons chosen as elc£lors in the re
fpe&ive counties.
Sec. 13. The eleflors of Senators fhal] judge of
the qualifications and ele&ions of members of their
own bcdv—and on a contested ele&ion, (ball ad
mit to a feat as an elector, such qualified person as
shall appear to them to have thcgreateft number of
legal votes in his favor.
Sec. 14. The elettors, immediately on their
meeting, and before chey proceed to the elettion
of Senators, (hall take an oath or make affirmation
of fidelity to this state, and also an oath or affirma
tion to elett without favor, affection, partiality 01
prejudice, such person for Governor, and such per
sons for Senators, as they in their judgment and
conscience, believe best qualified for the refpe&ive
offices.
Sec. 15. That in cafe of refufal, death, resig
nation, difqualific2tion or removal out of this
State of any Senator, the Senate (hall immediately
thereupon or at their next meetingthereaher, elefi
by ballet, in the fame manner as the electors are
herein airefted to chufe Senators, another person
in his place for the residue of the laid term of four
years.
Sec. 16. The General Assembly (hall meet on
'he fl» ft Monday in November in every vear, till
the time of their meeting (hall be altered by the
tegiflarure, unlefsfooner convened by the Governor.
Sec. 17. Each House (hall chufe its Speaker
and other officer?, and the Senate (hall also chufe a
Speaker pro tempore, when their Speaker (hall cx
ercife the office of Governor.
Sec. 18. Ea-h H ■'use shall judge of the quali
fications of its members ; contested ele&ions'ftull
he determined by a committee to be felefted, for
med and regu'ated, in such manner as (hall he di
tetlrd by law. A majority of each houfc (hall
constitute a quorum to do bufmef-, but a smaller
number may adjourn from day to day, and may
be an horifed by law to compel the attendance of
of absent members, in furh manner and under
such penalties as may be provided.
Sec. 19. Each House may determine the rules
of iis proceedings, puni(h its members for disor
derly behavror, and with the concurrence of two
thirds, expel a member ; but not a second tim*
for the fame cause.
Sec. 20. Each hou r e shall keep a jou'nal of its
proceedings asd publish them weekly, exccpt
Saturday, June 30, 1792.
33
such parts of them as may require secrecy, and the
yeas and nays of members on any qUestion, lhall
at the desire of any two ot ihcm, be entered on
the journals.
Sec. 2t. The doors of each House and of com
mittees of the whole, shall be open, unless when
the business shall be such as ought to be kept se
cret.
Sec. 32. Neither House shall, without the con
tent of the other, adjourn for moie than three days ;
nor to any orher place than that in which the two
Houses shall be fitting.
Sec. 23. The members of th- General Affcra
| My, and elcttors of the Senate, (hall leceive from
the public Treafurv, a compensation for their ser
vices, which forthe present (hall he fix (hillings a
day during their attendance on, going to, and re
turning from the Legislature, and the place for
choosing the Senators ; but the fame may be in
creased or diininifhed by law, if circumstances
(hall require it, but no alteration (hall be made, to
take effect during the exidence of the Legislature
which (hall make fach alteration : They (hall in
all cases, except treason, felony, breach or fuvety
of the peace, be privileged (rom arrest during
their attendance at the Session of the refpefttvc
houses, and at the place for chufing Senators, and
ingoing to and returning from the fame; And
for any speech or debate in either House, they
(hall not be questioned in any other place.
Sec. 24. No Senator or Rcprefentative (hall,
during the time tor which he (hall have been elett
ed, or for one year afterwards, be appointed to
any civil office under this State, which (hall have
been created or the emoluments of which have
been increased during the time such Senator or
Representative was in office ; provided that no
member of the firft Leg'flature which (hall be af
femblcd under thisconflitution, (hall be preclu
ded from being appointed to any office which may
have been created during his time of service in
the said Legislature ; and no minister of religious
societies, member of Congress or other per ion
hcldiug any office of profit under the United States
or this ccmmonwealth, except attornies at law,
justices of the peace, militia officers and coroners,
(hall be a member of either Houle, during his
continuance to ast as minister, id Congress, or in
office.
Sec. 25. When vacancies happen in the House
of Reprefeniatives, the Speaker (hall ilTue writs of
election to fill such vacancies.
Sec. 26. All bills for railing revenue (lull ori
ginate in the House of Reprefeutatives, but the
Secate may propose amendments as in other bills.
Sec. 27. Each Senator, Representative, and
Sheriff, (hall, before he be permitted to a & as such,
take an oath or affirmation, that he hath not direct
ly or indire£lly, given or promilec any bribe op
treat to procure his ele&ion to the fa id office : and
every person {Hail be difqualitied from serving a*
3 Senator, Representative or fher;r7, for the term
for which he (hall have been <le&ed, who {hall
be convi&ed of having given or offered any bribe
or treat, or canvassed tor the said office.
Sec. 28. Every bill which (hall have paged
both Houses, (hall be pre fen ted to the Governor,
if he approve he (hall sign it, but if he (hall not
epprove, he (hall return it with his objefiions, to
the house in which it (hall have originated, who
fhallentfcr the objettioos at large upon their jour
nals and proceed to rcconlider it ; if after such re
consideration, two :hirds of that Hcufe should a
gree to pass the bill, it (hall be sent with the ob-i
je&ions to the other House, by which it (hall like
wise be recon.ldered, and if approved bv two
thirds of that House, it (hall be a law : but in such
cases, the votes of both Houses (hall be determined
by yeas and nays ; and the names of the person?
voting for or agair.ft the bills, (hall be entered on
the journals of each House refpeSively, if any
bill (hall not be returned bv the Governor wiihin
ten days (Sundays excepted) after it fnol! be pre
sented so him, it (hall be a law in like manner as
if he had signed it ; unless the General Aflembly
by their adjournment prevent its return, in wh'ch
cafe it (hall be a law, jnlefa sent back within three
days after their next meeting.
(to be continued.)
Monday last arrived at New-Tork tie
Packet Cheflcrfieli, Capt. Jones, in
49 day from Falmouth. She brought
papers to the ifh of May. I
LONDON, May i.
FRANCE, governed by the violent
democracy known under the
name of Jacobins, has at length de
nounced war against the King of
Hungary and Bohemia. The afpe<ft
of Europe is so new that we know
not what to conjecture, though at the
fame time so portentous, that we can
not but fear foine general commoti
on, and consequently foine general
calamity. War between Germany
and France seems now unavoidable;,
as both parties are too proud and too
confident of support, to listen to
terms of mutual concession or cotn
promife. Could the voice of reason
and moderation be heard amidst the
tumults of paflion and the clangor of
arms, we would, in the character of
friends to human nature, and impar
tial fyedators of all political contefls,
[Whole No. 551.]
whether at home or abroad, earnestly
recommend peace to the contending
parties in France, on the ground of
a general amnefly, and the establish
ment of a third branch in the legifia
ture, by the infiitntion of a chamber
for the ancient nobility, and the dig
nified clergy, analogous to our House
of Peers. But the present temper of
the parties concerned does not admit
of such councils. It will, no doubt,
be the firft ohjetfl of what we shall
call the monarchical party, including
under that denomination both the
over-powered nobility and clergy in
France, and the sovereigns of other
countries who have espoused the cauft
of the fugitive princes, to seize some
strong port or pods in France, ascen
ters of union, or rather a re union,
of those who are friends, if not of
the antient government, yet of mo
derate reformation. It will, in like
manner, be the obje<fl of the French
democracy to crols the Rhine, and e
reiS the standard of liberty in the
Netherlands, in Liege, in Holland
too perhaps, and in other countries.
The allies will seek for friends and
adherents in France, the Nascent
Republic in the Low Countries and
in Germany, and all around them.
Whether will the enthusiasm of free
dom, or the combined efforts of many
and mighty powers pievail ? That is
the problem now to be determined
by policy and by arms.
It would have been full time enough
if the National Aflembly had waited
till the new King of Hungary had
come to some positive measure of hos
tility against the French, before they
had declared war ; for as it is, the
National Afl'embly must appear in no
other light than that of having de
clared an offenfive war against Ger
many, merely on the ground of the
declared opinion of the Kingof Hun
gary, as to the points on which he
desired to have the Conftitutton of
France amended, though he had ac
tually taken no ineafure to enforce
that opinion by an overt ai\, except
the 1.-ationing of part of his military
ftrengch might fa be conftrued,which
would hardly be allowed so long as
he refrained from any direct attack
on the poflefiions of France.
The daring republicans who adopt
the dotftrines of Thomas Paine in
this country, are proceeding to ex
tremities little short of madness, and
under the pretence of supporting the
cause of freedom, are everyday guil
ty of the grofTeit treason. Surely
with the inoft perfetft 2eal for the li
berty of the press, it mull be the wish
of all who are attached to the consti
tution, to fee the proper spirit of con
troul exerted, and indeed it is (hew
ing a true regard for the sacred free-*
dom of the press to prevent it front
being profaned by the scandalous li
cence which fonie desperate writers
afliime, who have no end in view but
a general confufion, by which alone
they are likely to escape from the
horrors of famine, or a gaol.
Government ir is to be hoped, are
not idle though silent, with refpedt
to the daring liberties which certain
factious writers take with the Con
ftirution, and in particular with the
executive branch which they are in
ceflantly endeavoring to bring into
contempt by a general attack upon
monarchy.
Le-ters received on Saturday by
the Flanders mail, are so far inter
eftinj; in a public light, as they bring
us information that the disputes which
have so long subsisted in the Nether
lands arc at length brought to a hap
py termination.
In a fliort debate, which occnrrrd.
on Friday last in the National Afletn
bly of France, after the prnpnW -if
war, a fallyof one Member produced
much applause.—"When
First," was read as the name of tbeKing of Hungary, " Read," said he,
Francis the last tor there will be no
more Kings of Hungary."
The States of Brabant afTemblec! on
the 17th inllant, when they agreed
to grant the subsidies withheld from
the two late Emperors—and made so
lemn profeffions of attachment and
fnbmiliion to their new sovereign.
The only boon they a iked in return,
was the restoration of the five former
Counsellors of the Council of Bra
bant, which is to be granted. Van
der Noot and Van Eupen are not in
cluded in this amnesty. The clergy
have likewise profefled their attach
ment to the new King, and on every
occasion declaim against the new or
der of things in France, which they
are determined to oppose, lead the
French fliould endeavor to commit
the fame violation on their property
as they have on the estates of their
own clergy. In this moment of in
vasion, the reconciliation of all par
ties is a very material point gained,
in securing the Netherlands to their
lawful sovereign.
Our Mini dry are resolutely deter
mined not to interfere in the medi
tated war on the Continent. As long
as the honor and security and true
policy of England allow it, they are
determined to refrain from all holti
lity. It is evidently for the interest
of the country to remain in peace ;
but at the fame time, it is known to
all the world, that this country is
prepared for war.—We wifli earneit
ly for a continuance of tranquility,
but are prepared for the mod reso
lute and vioknt attacks of an open
enemy,
This morning about one o'clock a
terrible fire broke out in a store ware
house belonging to Mr. Griffin, in
Evangelist Court, Water Lane, Black
friars, near Apothecaries Hall. Ma
ny of the back houses being very old,
and the wind blowing high, the flames
raged with so much fury that but few
of the unfortunate people had time
to do more than get out of their hous
es in their fliirts.
About fifty hoiifes have been de
stroyed, with almost all the furniture
which they contained.
A letter was received last week from
Dr. Willis, by one of his relatives in
the country, wherein he exprefleshis
expectation of returning to England
in a few weeks, and of leaving his
Royal patient perfectly reltored to
her health.
The three grand armies of France
are in motion ; but as yet we do not
learn that they have committed any
acl of hostility. General Brown, a
man of great military skill, is to be
Commander in Chief of the Austrian
army.
An express arrived last night at the
Secretary of State's Office, with an
account of a <u(penlion of iioftilities,
for ten days, having been agreed on
between the French and Aultrians.—
A letter was written by Louis to his
nephew the King of Hungary, pres
sing him very strongly to an accom
modation with the National Aflembly;
the (ufpenfion was proposed, in order
to have time for an answer from the
Court of Vienna; so that there are
yet hopes, among the more moderate
people in Paris, that a war between
the two countries may be averted.
In 1745 the French took Oftend,
after a ten day's siege. If they should
now attempt it, they will be most
likely to succeed by a coup-de-main.
M. Perigord, late bishop of Autun,
arrived in town on Sunday last, ac
companied by M. Garat, editor of the
Journal de Paris, M. Dumout, of Ge
neva, and M. Gallois, all members of
the high patriotic party.
They dined with M. deChauvelin,
the new ambalTador, who is to pre
lent his credentials to the King to
morrow, and to the Queen on Thurs
day.
M. Perigord is attached to the em
bally. He will entirely superintend
the condudt of the nominal minilter ;
and as far as age may be supposed to
Jiave ripened political wisdom, he is
undoubtedly chosen with great pro
priety.
M. Mienhard, the Secretary of Le
gation, is by birth a German, but his
regeneration into Patriotic Purity is
said to be complete.
Orders have been actually sent from
Paris for a body of troops to march
to Dunkirk immediately, and to be
reinforced by about 4000 men ingar
rifon there. The situation of Dun
kirk is so near, as to be not more than
fix hours quick march to Oftend,
which is very weakly garrisoned, and
could not refilV any regular attack
from a large body of forces. The
orders given have been so perempto
ry to make thegreateft dispatch, that
we may expect to hear every day of
the French troops being before that
place. The policy of this attack is
evident, and could not be better con
ceived. The French, by taking Of
tend, will destroy the nest of priva
vateers which are fitting out there
with the greatelt alacrity, and must
injure French trade very materially.
A letter from an Englifli gentleman at Pe
terfburgh, gives a very curious account of the
present ftatc of that court. The murder of
the Kiug of Sweden made a strong impreflion
on the Empress ; but it gave such an alarm to
the Arch-duke, as was perceptible to every one.
He talked publickly of plans being formed to
carry him off; and in a converi'ation with her
majesty, he spoke in the most unineafured terms,
deporting himfelf. fays the letter, "neither as
a son, nor as a fubjeft." The health ofthe Em
p' ess is not merely on the decline. There is
evidently a thorough break up of the constitu
tion. Her death, though it will make no
change in the abject condition of the people,
will be the .-era of a material change in the em
pire, for it is likely to be divided.
A young man was lately executed at Brussels
forenlifting men, not for the Auftvian service.
This execution, instead of striking terror, has
excited indignation. Emigrations and tiefer
tiens art: more frequent than ever.
A letter From Gibraltar fays, the brother of]
the late Emperor of Morocco is not dead of his
wounds, as has been reported. He is now per
fectly recovered; and there are actually two!
Emperors of Morocco, viz. Muley Ilhani, who
was proclaimed at Morocco, and Muley Mama,
who has been acknowledged Emperor at Tan
giers and Tetuan.
The [adics of France have left off rouge ; the
chimney-sweepers of England having adopted
| it, ought to be afufficient reason for our British
fair quitting their disguises and trusting to na
ture. There is no colour so attractive as that
which
' Nature's own fwest and cunning hand laid on.'
Our divine poet vcrv properly calls it
' Celeitial rofv red, Love's proper hue.'
THE PUBLIC EDUCATION OF FRANCE.
In the plan of public inftrufticn, fubmirtcd to
the National Assembly by M. Condorcet, and
which is printed for the use of the members,
there is the following memorable pafiage :
" The principles of morality taught in the
fchoob, and in the institutions, shall be those
which,founded on natural sentiment and reason,
belong equally to all men. The eonftitution, in
recognizing the right that each individual has
to chufe hi; religious worlhip, and in eftablilh
ing an entire eqnaiitv among all the inhabitants
of France, does not permit that any mode of
religious worlhip ihall be adopted, which exclud
ing the children of one part of the citizens,
would destroy the equality of advantages, or
would give to particular dogmas an advantage
contrary to the freedom of opinions. It is
therefore rigorously neceflary to separate from
morality the principles of all particular reli
gions, and not to admit into public inftruftion
t:-.e teaching of any mode of religious worlhip.
Every one of these ought to be taught in the
temples by its proper ministers. The parents,
whatever may be their creed, whatever may be
their opinion, as to the necessity of fueh or such
religion, can then, without repugnance, fend
their children to the national establishments,
and the state will not, as heretofore, usurp the
rights of confidence, under the pretext of en
lightening and directing them."
STOCKHOLM, April 20
The minor King and the Regent
have received an address from the
four orders of Stockholm, exprefllng
their grief at the late event. It was
composed of nine deputies of the No
blefle, four of the Clergy, five of the
Bourgeoife, and seven of the order
ofPeafants.—The confufion is daily
subsiding, and the government are
relaxing gradually from the severe
discipline which was eflablifhed.
BAREITH, (Ger.) April 23.
Yesterday a detachment of HnlTars
of Blanck enftein, 200 men of the re
giment of Efterhazy, 40 dragoons,
and 232 post-horses, palled by here in
their way to the Low Countries. The
infantry recruits consisted of 1042
men, and 181 ferrymen and engi
neers. G
COBLENTZ, April 16.
Marshal Broglio returned here on
Saturday. Every thingis in motion
here, and seems to indicate the ap
proach of the time for the execution
of the long-intended plan of the emi
grants ; however, it is thought that
it will be July before any thing ef
fectual can be done.
»eflerday the King of France's
brothrs moved from Mentz and Bin
gen.
34
O S T E N D, April 2 J
; We are here as quiet and uncon
cerned about a late event at Paris, as
if nothing had happened; the Ne
therlands are so well furnifhed with
German troops, under the beftofdif
cipline, that but little fear is enter
tained here refperting an attack from
that unhappy and divided country.
VIENNA. April ij.
A body of troops, under the com
mand of General Wallis, is marching
into Lower Austria, attended by 21
field pices, 6 pounders, two 12 pound
ers, and 2 mortars ; 24 battalions of
infantry, and 14 divisions of cavalry,
in all 40,830 tnen, and attended by
84 pieces of artillery, fix pounders,
twelve 12 pounders, and 12 mortars,
are 011 the route for the Netherlands.
PARIS, April 2J
The Decrees relative to theTequef
tracion of the Estates of the Emi
grants has been inferred in the regii
ters of the Municipality at Paris.
The molt positive orders have been
iflued for the troops to march. Ge
neral Luckner is to take pofleflion of
the defiles of Porentrui, conformably
with the Treaty between France and
the Bifliop of Balle. The center ar
my, reinforced with a detachment
from that of the north, is ro advance
itowardsLuxemburgh. M.deßochain
bean is to march towards Mons-—Van
der Merfh has accepted a pod in the
French army ; he aifts as Marchal de
Camp
From several parts of the interior
of France, the molt melancholy news
is received. Letters from Nifmcs de
clare, that it is now no longer pofii
ble to number the Chateaux which
have been pillaged and reduced to
ashes. Letters from Pcrpignan.make
mention that honfes, shops, &c. have
been plundered and demolished by a
set of ruffians, who, elated by success,
attacked churches, &c, overthrew al
tars, statues, &c.
Aries has been obliged to pay a fnni
of 80,000 livres as a ranlom. The
Marseilles army is daily increasing ;
and it is no longer a secret that their
objedi is to ere<ft the southern pro
vinces into a Republic. The city of
Marseilles has advanced them a sum
of 100,000 livres.
Yesterday the Minister for Foreign
Affairs informed the National AfTem
bly that M. de Semonville, who was
appointed by the King, Minister Pie
nipotentiary to the Court of Turin,
has been arretted at Alexandria, oa
his journey fiom Genoa to Turin, by
order of his Sardinian Majesty, on
pretencethat he had no pallporc from
the Sardinian government. The
court of Turin has iflued orders not
to permit M. de Semonville to enter
Piedmont ; and M. d'Hauteville, Mi
niftei 1 for Foreign Affairs, has sent a
courier to the Courr of France, with
dispatches full of complaints against
the Ambaflador, and faying that ii
was exceedingly dangerous to fuffer
him to reside at Turin. He is also
accused ot having endeavoured to ex
cite tumults. His Sardinian Majesty
entreats the King of the French to
appoint another Ambaflador in his
room.
M. tie Semonville lias written seve
ral letters to M. de la Lande, the
French Secretary of Legation, com
plaining of the outrageous inlulis of
fered to the representatives of the
French nation.
M. Dnmourier then read a copy of
the dispatches which he has sent to
M. de la Lande.—ln these beexprefi
es his aftonifhinent that a French Am
ballador ihould be insulted and ar
retted, while the French rebels who
have emigrated are epenly protected.
He charges expressly the Secretary
of Legation,
id. To insist on the revocation of
the orders given by the Sardinian
Government for the arreftatiou of M
de Semonville. 2d. To demand an
explanation within 24 hours. 3d. To
go to M. de Seinonville, and to pre
sent him to his Sardinian Majesty.
4'h. If the Court of Turin (hould not
observe the laws of good neighbour
hood, to withdraw himfelf from Tu
rin and to accompany the French
Minitter to Genoa.
The tenor of tliefe difpatcfies v
highly applauded.
M. Bonrnoitio, tlie Fi
fadur at Madrid
Dumouriei{ tn d informed him thai
Spam neither is, nor has the abilities
of becoming hostile tb France, and
that the cordon of troops oajheFron
tiers consists of only i 2 or if,ooo men"
April 27. This day isappointed for
the march of M. i!e Biron, with an
advanced detachment of the army
towards Mons, which will be the firlV
(cene of aJtioiu—the emhufiaf,.. of
the army is at its heighth. It is im
poflible for to conceive of more ala
crity, more vigour, or more fangui lie
hopes.
We as usual, a number c f
horrible reports. The Duke 0 f
Brunfwick (hot at a review—the Bi
shop of Spires dead—the Eledtos of
Bavaria murdered, &c. &c. M. Bril
fot calls this the Epizootia, or tjbeßoy
al Mange. There is not a word of
truth in all these reports, which are
made for the Rue Vivienne.
We have an account to day that
General Luckner has taken pofleflioii
of the important pass of Porentrui >
but it wants confirmation.
The Republic of Berne persists in
recalling the regiment of Ernest, but
with great expressions of friendfliip
coAvards France.
M. Polverel, a lawyer, and M. San
tonax, one of the Editors of the Re
volutions of Paris, and M. Chaliot,
are appointed Commilfioners to St.
Domingo.
The eletSor of Treves, the moment
he was informed of the King's ulti
matum, sent a Courier to Vienna, re
questing that the emigrants might be
permitted to aflemble and to take U|>
arms. It was expected that by the
of April, they would be com
pleted, armed, and embodied. The
lal> division of the Brigaw army is
arrived at Fribourg. GeneralsWallis
and Cobourg are in full march at the
head of 30 battallions, coniifting of
ijoo men each.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, April 23
The decree of Sunday, that each
member should give up one month's
pay for the pubic service, was revo
ked, on the ground that all extraor
dinary contributions ought to bs vo
luntary. It now remains open for
the members of the aflemblv, and all
their fellow-citizens, to contribute
in proportion to their means and
their patriotism.
A number of voluntary contribu
tions were received.
A letter from the King was read,
slating that the sum allowed for ex
traordinary and secret ferviccs in the
foreign department was too fmalJ,
and desiring that it might be increas
ed by fix millions of livres.—Refer
red to the diplomatic and finance
committees
The minister for the home depart
ment gave an account of the internal
disturbances, which he attributed
chiefly to the difaffected clergy. The
Aflembly referred his account to the
committee of twelve, with an instruc
tion to report on the propriety of de
priving the priests, who refufed to
take the civic oath, of tl:eir pensions,
or even banifliing them the kingdom.
One of the secretaries announced
that a register was open for the vo
luntary subscriptions of the members
for the expences of the war—all the
members present immediately went
and subscribed ; and the sum thus
raised will greatly exceed that which
won Id have been raised by the de
cree repealed at the opening of ihe
fitting.
Evening Sitting.
A number of patriotic gifts were
received. ...
A decree was palled for an a '*
tional allowance to the officers 01 t ie
army during the war.
has vv
April 24-
Great part of this fitting was spent
in receiving accounts °f P' 11,1011 5
gifts, and the remainder in '
sing a plan for the formation ot tree
companies during the war.
Evening
The fame difcuflion continued
Aran- 27-. . .
A vafi: number of patriotic t° n
ons were made a* the b ir, an "
which 4501. were given by three - "
olifh boys. The scholar? of the p
7\lh , \n r-r.-crvy rffe.edapnrfe
at! ■ <.fthei' pocket n >" ne >*
A '' : ei -Gene. al and 3 Comp
r ' • v eral were ordered for*acl
e armies,SAVANNAH, May 31
A match for the Bottle Conjurer !
In consequence of notice given, a
bouc 300 people aflembled at [lie fila
ture, la(l Monday evening, co fee the
wonderful feats which were promised
to be performed by John Perry's
daughter, himfelf, his liorfe, pigeon,
&c: After fulFeringm uch for an hour
and a half, from the heat of the wea
ther, and the honfe being greatly
crowded, they were obliged to dil
mifs without having their curiosity
gratified, for some of the company
going behind the curtain fouhd John
and his alibciates, by means of a lad
der fixed to one of the windows, had
made off with the ca(h they collected,
leaving only a little girl behind them
ci. the stage. The tickets werefign
ed Juan Penez, or Perez, and there
feeins also to have been concerned in
this cheat an Italian, who went by
the name of John Jontfon, a hair
dreller named Williams, and some
others whose names are now un
known
SALEM, June 19
ESSEX BANK
Will begin to discount on Monday
next, if no unexpected occurrence oc
casions a delay.
This Bank is kept in the fame build
ing with the Cultom House, in Bank-
Street, Salem, a few rods from the
Sun Tavern.
The following gentlemen have been
chol'en officers of it, viz.
Mr. William Gray, jun. President
Capt. George Dodge, Edward Pul
ling, Esq. Mr. John Norris, Jacob
Aftiton, Esq. Capt. William Orne,
and Capt. Joseph White, Directors.
Mr. James King, Caffiier.
We are allured that J t 'peculation, that
bane of industry and integrity, is no
part of the system on which this Bank
is instituted. Situated in the midst
of an enterprizing, commercial and
manufacturing people, it is intended
to facilitate the operations of their
industry ; and we underftandthat in
fant manufactures will be the parti
cular objects of its favor. By this
inllitution, the profits which have
hitherto been drawn from the citi
zens of Essex by other banking liouf
es, and which have not been incon/1
derable, may he retained among our
selves, and applied to the promotion
of our own bulinefs. And as the af
fociators are not only jointly, but in
dividually, answerable for the credit
of the Bank, the inhabitants of this
county will find a superior degree
of (ecurity, co-operating with their
general interest, to give a currency
to the Essex Bank Bills.
A particular convenience nrifes to
the inhabitants more immediately in
its neighborhood : that every man
may deposit his cafli in the Bank for
security, free of expense, however
large or finall the (um, and make use
ot checks for the transaction of buli
nefs.
While the good of the community
is promoted by this institution, it is
hoped that the flockholders may de
rive a reasonable advantage for their
enterprize.
BOSTON, June 21.
Capt. Kellfa, from Bilboa, which he left the
beginning of May, confirms the accounts of the
Declaration of War by the French Nation against
the Ho use of Austria, and the other powers who
have succoured and encouraged theFrenchemi
grants, and who have been menacing hostilities,
and dilating terms to France.—He further
adds, that a merchant of great repute in Bilboa,
read hiin an account of a battle which had been
fought by the French Patriots, and the Germane
in Austrian Flanders—that it was on the 26tb
day of April, and that accounts had dated the
loss on both fides at yooo mea, the a&ion conti
ting from nine in the morning until four in
afternoon. On which fide Victory declared
iTelf, he did notunderftand, but supposes from
silence on that head, that it was dubious.
The Captain further informs that the Spanish
ernment entertained great fears of a Revo
ion in that kingdom—that, as far as possible,
' cori *efpondence on political fuhjedls was in
terdicted, and that the Inquisition-Boat visited
every veiTel on its arrival, to forbid the landing
of any books, pamphlets, letters or newfpapevs,
but such as were previously inspected. The
Captain and crew of all vessels were also forbid
speaking on the government orreligion of Spain.
NEW-YORK, June 25.
The Governor of the state of Georgia ha-,
iiTued his proclamation requiring the citizens of
that state resident in the /ower di(tri<st, to elect,
on £he 9th of July, one ILeprefentative in the
Congress of the United States, in the room of
Anthony Wayne.
Philadelphia, June 30
European accounts by the packet, and by a
late arrival at Charleston from London, further
inform—That proclamations are stuck up in all
the Itrect ; of Luxemburg!!, purporting that the
Governors Genera! of the Low Countries have
Ix en informed that the Jacobins have formed a
design of fending emiilaries into that country,
undjr the difguile of peasants, to distribute se
ditious pamphlets among the people—they
therefore odfer a reward of 100 ducats to any
one who shall cause any of these emhTaries to be
arrested—That the trial of M. Lcilart before
the High Court, had commenced; his firll hear
ing lasted three hours.—That the- French ports
in the channel were menaced by privateers
who were preparing to put to lea under impe
rial colours the moment war was declared.—
That the Prince de NafTau had arrived at Cob
leiitz—That the Princes ofHohenloe, Bartfen
ftein, &c. have concluded treaties of subsidy
with the French Princes.—ln the late fire at
Gottenburg, 123 houses weredeftroyed, the uni
versity and the lliipping were preserved.—The
new King of Hungary has dismissed all the re
tainers of the Italian opera, by vhich he saves
300,000 florins per annum; —that he had lately
received a note containing these words, " If
you value your life, do not meddle with the af
fairs of the French nation."—That reports are
in circulation at Paris, that the Prince of Brunf
wick was aflaffinated in his closet; that the
Elector of Bavaria is dead; and that the Em
press of Russia was arrested. —That the cele
brated Captain Pacha, who was Admiral of the
Turkish fleet the late war, is deposed, and suc
ceeded by a page aged 30, who lias never seen
any service at sea ; this appointment has much
displeased the officers of the navy.—That not
withstanding the discontents which reigned in
Sweden at the conclusion of the Diet of Gefle,
the afl'aflination of the King has contributed
more to reconcile those to the royal authority
who were opposed to it, than to forward the
views of the conspirators—os this, the young
King and the regent have received proof by a
deputation from the four orders to allure those
Princes of their loyalty and attachment.—That
the death of Guftavus has not altered the deter
mination of the Swedilh government to unite
with the confederate lovereignsof Prussia, Aus
tria and Ruflia.—That the Imperialists are in
full force every where, and their troops in the
fincft condition—that they have an army of
16,000 men in the neighbourhood of Brulfels,
and that Oftend is guarded by a chosen body of
troops Notwithstanding the preceding ac
counts, there is the strongest reason to believe
that the confederates against the revolution of
France entertain the greatest apprehensions for
the internal tranquility of their refpe&ive ter
ritories—the French are enthufiaftic,and will be
invincible, for the spirit of liberty, where a
contest can be maintained, will malt afluredly
triumph.
Sailed on Monday last from this port for Eng
land, the lhip Ceres, Capt. Marlh. In this ves
sel the honorable Mr. PiNCKNEY,Minifter Pleni
potentiary from the United States to the Court
of Great-Britain, and family, Mr. Collet, Mr.
Ongal and Mr. Romesone, went passengers.
Electioneering for feats in the House of Re
presentatives of the United States, under the
law providing for an encreafe in that branch of
the legislature, is begun in Virginia. The Win
chester paper of the 18th inft. contains an ad
dress to ele&ors from Mr. Robert Rutherford,
of Berkley county, an old servant of the public,
on the fubjeft.
Articles in the Britilli papers received by
the Packet, speaking of the conduct of the Eng
lish Ministry at the present crisis, infinuate —
that they have not only changed their system of
a balance,but that they have surrendered all the
ancient and established policy of England, and
because they have been foiled in undertaking
needless armaments, are at length determined
to fuffer no occasion to provoke them to hosti
lity. They have called out Wolf ! Wolf! so
long, with needless terror, or with artful design,
that they are now afraid to announce a real
danger.
The latest accounts from France contain lit
tle more than details of the patriotic spirit
which t'ie declaration of war has brought into
a&ion, and the zeal with which contributions
are made to support it. This is the critical
period to provide those permanent refourcesfor
the support of Liberty and the Constitution,
which may be wanted when the present ardor
ihall abate. Our allies will doubtless profit by
I the experience of this country.
The Salem Gazette of last week contains a
particular account of a disagreeable affair that
occurred in Table Bay, between Capt. Sims,
of the ship Fame, of Philadelphia, and Captain
Bligh, commander of theßritifh ship Providence.
Capt. Bligh, it seems, took one of Capt. Sims'
men, and notwithstanding the spirited remon
i!:rances of Capt Sims, refufed to deliver him
up.—On various pretences, it is said that the
Teamen have in a high-handed manner been
lately taken from several American veflels.
We hear that the distilling business is in so
flourilhing a way of late, that for the want ol
a futficient quantity of new copper, the smiths
are making use of old copper kettles, for stills.
The Pittsburgh Gazette, received by yester
day's post, contains nothing new.
From a Bennington paper of June 15.
We are happy to inform our readers, that the
report published some time since, stating tha'
Judge Powell was sent to Quebec in irons, is
wholly premature; that piece of calumny was;
undoubtedly framed by some of his enemies—
for, like all men of merit, he is not without
i them.
35
The account of the assassination of the Ki:-
of Sweden, as published by authority at Stock
holm, contains the following particulars in brief:
That it appears from the confeflions of the cri
minals themselves, that Ankerftrom and Count
Horn had agreed, that the removal of the King
was the only thing that could effect their wiihel
in a change of the government—That Anker
ftrom fays he was also actuated by a spirit of re
venge on account of a prosecution carried on
against him lalt year, which induccd him to he
the inflrurnent of removing the King—That se
veral plans of carrying the design into execution
had been contemplated, but had failed—That
Count Ribbing entered into the con (piracy;
shortly after which, it was resolved by thcic
three persons, that the King should be afiallinat
ed by Ankerfirom, either with a dagger or pis
tols, at a play or malquerade, where a great
concourse of people would be collc&ed, that the
! aflaffin might be easier concealed—That these
. three conspirators were at the play on the 16th
January iaft—that Horn placed Ankerftrom in
a covered paifage, which the King uled to pass
through, where he was to have been shot; but
tlie King did not that evening go into this pas
sage, by which means Ankerftrom's murderous
intention was fruftrated—Two days after this,
he was at another play, but could not get a fa
vorable opportunity—A masquerade between
the 19th and 20th of January was then fixed on,
but the company being fmal), prevented the ex
ecution of their design—They then let out for
Gefle, where the murder was to have been per
petrated at a malquerade on the 2d March, but
was again prevented in consequence of the imall
number of persons prefect-—A masquerade was
advertised for the 16th March; this was fixed
on as the time; previous to which, it appears,
that Major Liljehorn and General Pechelin had
been let into the latter of whom
was to provide for the revolution which was to
take place after the alfalUnation.
The whole plan was further matured at Count
Ribbing's country feat—who was to get a num
ber of people to the masquerade, in which-bufi
nefs Pechelin promised to aflift. Horn, Anker
ftrom, and Ribb.ng, met at the lodgings of the
latter 011 Friday evening, where Ankerftrom
loaded his piftolswith balls, lhot and nails; be
lides which he took a large knife, ground lharp
on both fides, and to which a barb was made ;
after which they all three went to the masque
rade—When the King, presently after, came in
to the room, Ankerftrom in the croud approach
ed him, took thepiftol from his fide-pocket and
fiiot the King, who flood with his back towards
j him, so near that the mouth of the pistol touch
ed his cloaths. Ankerftrom, who, when the
King did not fall, was about to complete the
murder with the knife, was so agitated, that he
dropped it on the floor, and let the pistols also
gently fall at the fame time ; as he drew him
felf back among the people, to create a general
confufion, he cried out, Fire! which was re
peated by many others.
It appeared that Baron Bjelke was deeply
concerned—that Lieut. Ehrenfward was also of
the party —that the Counfcllor of Chancery,
Jacob Von Engeftrom, was acquainted withthe
design—besides whom, Major Hertfmanfdorf, of
the Artillery, the Secretary of Protocol, John
Von Engeftrom, are accused, and have made
partial confellions.
General Pechelin denies the charges against
him, but Baron Bjelke poifoncd himfelf, and the
court of justice ordered that his body Ihould be
taken by the common hangman to the gallows,
and buried there—which was done.
The Counsel for the prosecution has given in
his final pleading against: Ankerftrom, and the
Royal Coun of Justice is proceeding in the bu
linefs with relpeft to the others.
LxtraEl of a letter from a gentleman in England, to
his friend in this city—received by the Packet—da
ted May 1y?, 1792.
'* Beiore 1 enter upon the special business, that
occasions my writing by the packet ; I mull con
gratulate you upon tlie rising spirit of humanity
and liberty in my native country, which has at
length shewn itfelf in the House of Commons,
where it was carried the last week that the Britifti
African trade in human flefh shall cease Jan. ift,
1796. You will now be furnifhed with continual
news from Europe. The despots having perfifttd
in their plan of attcmpiing to force the French to
submit to their former flavcry, notwithftandmg the
providential warnings given them to the contrary
m the unexpected deaths of the Emperor and the
Swedifti King; the National Alfcinbly and the
King of the French, have wifely declared war
against the King of Hungary, with the design of
giving a home thruftj before the confederates are
!ully provided to parry it off. A stranger to the
language of France, and too far advanced beyond
sixty, I cannot serve them in any shape by crofling
the channel, beyond what I can do here, by open
ly and publicly, as well as privately advocating
their cause, and implorcing the favor of heaven
on them that they may be succeeded, that the
judgment of war may be changed into a blefling
io them, by proving the mean of firmly eftablilh
mg their constitution, and that it may aI so prove
the introdudlion and confirmation of sacred and
civil liberty in its utinoit extent through other Eu
ropean dominions. The present is a new kind of
war ; royal and imperial defpotilm against na
tional liberty. I pretend not to the knowledge
of courufccrets ; but can easily conje&urc, that the
royal undertakers have the hearty fan&ion of all
the crowned heads, the Polifhonly excepted ; and
rhey that have faith in the sincerity of Louis, will
except him alio. Many think that our court are
itrong in favor of the anti-revolutionists ; and
wouid willingly aid them out of the public purse;
but it is my own private opinion, besides that of
numbers, that no minister will dare to do it;
for ii is certain, that a fenle of what ai e the rights
of men spreads ; the many excellent publications,
that Burke's political yealt or barm into
exftence, have greatly diffuled civil knowledge.
Paine, and some oihers go into an cxcefs ; but
they arc of great ufc, and tend to bring off indi
viduals from the other extreme, and nearer to
ihat middle wherein lies the greatest fafety. I
have lived to fee one revolution terminate most
happily, in the best government that exists ; and I
hope to fee the other in Europe end gloriously :
not that either is pet fe&. The French fiiould have
an upper House or Senate, where, the arittocracs
may collect and snare in government. There will
always, in a large commercial community, be
pcrfons, whole superior abilities and fortunes will
taife them above the generality, and who will of
courlc entertain aristocratic fenumeuts ; and I ap
piehend that it is much fdfer tor the body politic,
that these should form a fcparatebranch, than mix
with the common mass in one leprefentative as
sembly, whereby joint and covert policy they
secure a majority to lupport their own
though invitible plans. Your American Conftnu
lion has provicid th.it no title of vobihty Jha.lL U
giaitedby the V 'ttedStates i u Oiould have piovi
ded also, that 110 honorary diftinguilhi:.■* titles
(which arc' rcaily titles »»f nobility) fha,; be he
reditary, or permanent Irom one generation to
another. You will perceive that 1 have my c
to the Cincinnati, fr»r tiie individuals of which I
have the gieatcfl veneration and eltccm, and lec
them tnjoy the honorable order while they exiti;
but then let it cease with them : but if their tons,
and sons-ions arc to inherit it alter them, they
have a privilege annexed to them, that exalts them
above their fellow-citizens, which is 3Ctual no
bility. Hereditary honors 01 offices, I aDhoi (as
being repugnant to common fenlY) with one ex
ception—honors and offices arc bellovtfed as the
reward ot merit, and should therefore be confined
to merit ; but merit is not hereditary. The patri
otic and courageous soldier, may be fuccetded by
a cowardly felfifh foo. The firmeft friend ot li
berty may leave behind him a man of the mod
unpriciplcd and despotic call. The pious and
good magiflrate and minillcr, may be the lathers ot*
profligate and vile wretches. I have made a sin
gle exception, in favor of a peculiar hereditary
iuccelfion, being appiehenfive that the firfl magil
t'ate, whether filled King, Emperor, or Prelident,
should be hereditary to prevent the horrid con
lefts that mufi be the attendants of renewed elec
tions.—To avoid which for the future, the Poles
have in their new conflitution provided for an he
leditary foveteignty."
Ext ra£l of a letter from a gentleman <« Lexington %
Krvtucke y, to his correj ft undent in Carlijle, dated
May 21/?, 1792.
" The Indians have been doing a considera
ble damage about Frankl"ort—They were pur
sued over the Ohio by a party of Volunteer:,
but they found the Indians too strong to at
tempt an attack, and returned without doing
any thing."
Ex trad of another letter from the fume place.
u Our Convention did in one week make a
Constitution ; the next week that Constitution
was unanimously adopted ; and now our Repre
sentatives, Electors, Sheriff and Coroner, be
ing chosen, and after them our Governor and
Senators, viz.—Governor, Isaac Shelby,—Se
nators, John Campbell, for Jefterfon county—
John Logan, for Lincoln ; Caldwell, for
Nelson—William McDowell, for Mercer—
Robert: Todd, for Fayette—Thomas Kennedy,
for Madison—John Allen,for Bourbon—Robert
Johnfton, for Woodford—Alexander D. Orr,
for Mason. Extra Senators, Alexander S.
Bullet, Pay ton Short; the wheels of that con
stitution will on the 4th of June be put in mo
tion. The large brick market house is now
converted into an elegant Aflembly Room. The
buildings carrying on here are really surprising."
Ignorance is said to be the effect of tyranny,
but it may be doubted whether an enlightened
people were ever enslaved except by the appli
cation of superior external force.
I Certain it is, that freedom and ignorance
cannot long exist together; for mankind will
not naturally prize those things, the advantages
of which require an enlightened understanding
justly to appreciate.
u Oppreifion will make men mad"—and re
sistance to tyranny is an impulle of nature, whe
therenlightened or not; but, the blcffir.gs of
revolutions depend on a wife improvement of
that change in society which they produce—for
the want of due information, and just principles
how many enterprizes in favor of the rights of
man have proved abortive ?
Friends of the human race ! would you lay
the foundations of liberty onabafis that can ne
ver be moved, evince yourpatriotifin by taking
effe&ual measures to enlighten the great body
OF THE PEOPLE.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT
BirkiUy
Skip Nrjlor,
Jefferies,
Durant,
Barras,
Sheetan,
Frankferd %
Dryburgk,
Kendall,
Wilmington,
Martha,
Brig Cremorr.y
Norfolk f
Pomonay
Union,
Schooner DiJpatch,
Davis,
(Tossy
Lowe,
Edgar,
Harriot,
Sloop Dove,
Sally,
Mack/in,
Rabia,
Arrived at Bojlon, Brig Lively, Capt. Kellfa, from
Bilboa (Spain) 42 days. In Int. 43, 27, long. 17,
(off Cape Finniflre) was chafed and brought to by a
copper-bottomed Cruizer. of 18 guns—and 100 men.
The Captain of which asked ( apt. Kellfa many queflions,
but the latter being under Engiijh cykurs, the former
did not fee fit ts come on board him, although the boats
boarding-crew were prepared for the purpose. Capt.
K. was so nigh as to discover them to be Moors, or Al
gerines, bv their turbans and beards.
fC7 & Price of Stocks as in our /act.
ADVERTISEMENT.
XTOTICE is hereby given to the Creditors of
!\ Edward Man kin, an insolvent debtor,
confined in the gaol of the county of Salem, in the
(late of New-Jwfev, that the Judges of the Infe
rior Court of Common Pleas lor laid county, on
application to them made, have appointed the
twenty-eighth day of Julv next for the said Credi
tors to appear before any two or more of said
Judges, at the town of to Ihew cause, if
any they have, why an alignment of the said
debtors estate fliOtild not be made, and he be dis
charged from confinement, pursuant to an Ast of
A(Tembly t passed the 24th of November IaIV, for
the relief of insolvent debtors then confined
Salem. June 25, 1792,
Cork
, Wilmington
Wkitb h G. B.
Jamaica
Cape-Francois
Port-au-Prince
Hamburgh
Hondutas
Cajfo- Francois
Char left on
Newbury-Port
Curracoa
New-York.
(*3OTHE fOLIOWING IS THI CELEBRATED
FRENCH REVOLUTION SONG,
WITH A TRANSLATION,
CA IRA.
AH! ca ira, ca ira, ca ira,
Le peuple, en ce jour fans cede repel' ah!
Ah! ea ira, ca ira, ea ira,
Malgre mutios tout reufiira,
Noi mnemis confus en res-tent la
Et noujall-om chanter Al-le-lu>iah,
Ah! ca ira, ca ira, ca ira,
Quand Boileaa jadisdu Clerge, par la,
Com me un prophete il a predit ce la,
En chantant ma chan-f<»n net avcc plaifir on din,
Ah! ca ira, ca ira, ca ira,
Malgre mutins tout reudira.
Ah I ea ira, ca ira, ca ira.
TR ANSIATIOIf.
Ah ! 'twill do, 'twill do, 'twill do,
The people (hall for e'er repeat,
Ah! 'twill do,'twill do,'twi'l do,
In fpitt of mut'niea we'll succeed.
Our enemies confus'd (hall Hand,
Whilst Hallelujah chants our band,
Ah! 'twill do, 'twill do, 'twill do,
In days of yore so sung Boileau,
His prophecies of Gallic Church,
With pleasure fljall my (train repeat,
Ah ! 'twill do, 'twill do, 'twill do,
In spite of tnut'niea we'll fuccoed.
SOCIETY FOR ESTABLISHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
At a meeting of the Directors of the Society for
eftablilhing ufeful manufactures, held at Nevr
aik, on Friday the eighteenth clay of May,
1792, at which time was pafl'ed the following.
Supplement to an ordinance, entitled, " An or.
dinaace for securing the punctual payment of
the monies due on the fubferiptions to the so
ciety for eftablilliing ufeful manufactures."
WHEREAS by the third fe&ion of the ordi
nance entitled, " An ordinance for feenr
iwg the punctual payment of the monies due on
the fubferiptions to the society for establishing
ufeful matnifattures," it is ordained, that if any
fubfirriber or his afligns, ftiall neglecfl to pay the
second, third or fourth payment of his, her or
their refpetflive fubferiptions, for the space of
th ee days after the expiration of the time limit
ed by the law of incorporation for the said pay.
ments, that is to fay, the second payment, 011 the
13th day of July, 1 792 : that then and in that
cafe, all and every (hare or (hares, offuchperfon
or persons. so neglecting to make such payments
as alorefaid, and the monies by them previously
paid, shall be forfeited, and forever thereafter
veiled in the said directors and their fuccelTors
lor the common benefit of the said society.
And whereas circumstances render it inexpe
dient to exatit full payment of the ferond instal
ment on the said thirieenih day of July next, or
wi,hin three days thereafter.
Be it therefore ordained, i>y the deputy gover
nor and dirertors of the focieiy for eftablifiiing
nfeful mannfatftores, that if the said second pay
ment (hall be made in manner following, that is
to fay, one equal third part thereof, on or before
the thirteenth day of Augnft next, one other e
qual third part thereof, on or before the thir
teen'h day of September next, and one other e
qual third part theteof, on or before the thir
teenth day of October next, with lawful interest
computed thereon from the said thirteenth day
-of July next, that then and in such cafe, the laid
penalty mentioned in the said fetftion, shall not
be exat r ted, any thing in the fSid ordinance to
the contrary notwithilanding.
A. MERCER, Dep. Gov
Extra# from the minutes,
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very.fitft quality, and latest importation from Canten, via
K T ew-Yotk, by retai!,at
No 19,
Third, between Chcfnui and Market Streets
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
r PHE Subfciiber intending to confine himfelf entirely to the
X PURCHASE and SALE of STOCKS on COMMISSION,
Begs leave to offer his services to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafeto favor him with
their bufmefs, may depend upon having it tranfafted with the ut
most fidelity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of the
United States will be ftrittly attended to.
Mas 2
TICKETS in the NEW-BRUNSWICK L OTTERY, are to
be had at the following placcs, viz.—Saniael Cooper's
Ferry; a Burlington, of R. PierfuO, Esq. Bordencown, of Mr.
John Van Eraburgh ; Mount Hollv, of |. Read, Esq. Trenton,
of John Singer, Esq. Amboy, of James P-irker, Esq. Elizabeth-
Town, of R.Gray; Powlcs-Hook, of Col. Smith and Judge
Hunt; Cranbury, of William Throckmorton Spotfwood ; and of
the Managers in Brunfwick.
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk
LEONARD BLEECKER.
_____ («•'■)
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of 750 for the purpose of repairing che
Prottftant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Biunfwick,
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey,
palled November 1791.
SCHEME.
t Prize of 2000
icod
s°*
200
100
20
4
1
2
,5
10
3°
90
'675
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollar# each, is 16002 Dolls,
This Lottery is com poled of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjett to a deduction ot twelve and an halj per
cent. which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being ol such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubled but the undertaking wifl meet with the mod
liberal support.
The drawing will positively commence on the feeond Monday
in July, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of
New-BrunlVick, under the infpctttonof Col. John Bayard, Pre
sident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Am.
boy; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufalturing Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had of the following pcrfons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given fccurity for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate number® will he published, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
N. B. Those piizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confidercd as a generous
donation to the Church.
Adventurer* in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per month for their money. To accommodate
all ttiofe who may be disposed to purchase Tickets,letters direct
ed to P. KeenGn, Manager, and Postmaster, at New-Brunfwick,
and enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for
warded on receipt of such letters.
New-Brunfwick, April 20, 1792,
Bank of the United States,
May 8, 1792.
F, ESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the third pay-
ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each share of
the Bank of the United States, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of discount and deposit; and that transfers of
public debt on account of luch payment, may be made on the
books of the Treasury of the United States, or in the office of any
of the Comrniffioners of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be deposited in the office in which the fpecic
proportion of such payment fliali be made.
Refolvea, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious to the firft days of July and J4®uary of each year.
By Order, JOHN KEAW, Calhier.
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
StatE-STR EST, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind of the Stocks of the United States, on
Commifiion, by Private Contratt, and Public Auttion.—
Those gentlemen who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
Boston s March, 17Q2. (lawgm)
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Molly, Captain Pitt, from Lisbon,
A FEW pipe* and quarter- calks of LISBON WINE, far
superior in quality to what is generally imported—
And a few bales of the very best CORKS,
TO BE SOLD BY
George Meade,
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE.
Choice three and five years old Bill of Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or quarter-ca(k.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-caflc.
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-calk.
MESS BEEF, of a (uperior quality, and such as is fife for
an East-India voyage, put up in this city.
Choice firft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto second ditto do.
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that country.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the firft quality, and
114 Hhds. FLAX-SEED. &c. &c.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1792
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE jullnow opened their Lead-War t house, two doors
south of Walnut-street Whaif, adjoining their New Fattory
where they have now made, and leady for sale, a general assort
ment of SHOT of ail sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they wairant it to be
equa! in quality to any manufa&urcd in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrcfled to either of the
above Fadtories, will be thankfully received, and execnted on the
(borteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring at the said
Mines, whereconftant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
hotifes for their reception.
For further particularsenquire of Messrs. Moses Aust i n & Co
at their Fattory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the subs riber, on Monday the 9th cur
rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROBIN, is 55 years of age,
(tout made, and bred a farmer ; oneof his thumbs much swelled ;
is 5 feet 6 inches high ; had on when he went away a big purple
coloured cloth coat, a (bort linen coat, a pair of fuftian brceches,
a ruffled shirt, an old beaver hat, with (hoes, stockings and buckles,
all good. Also, a young NEGRO BOY named SAM, is 19
yeaisofage, flout and well made, 5 feet 9 inches high, much
marked with 'he Ima 1 1-pox ; had on when he went away, a big
blue coat, a brown (bort coat, overalls of a mixed cloth, fulled
fto< kings, a new wool hat, pew (hoes and buckles. Whoever
will secure said Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to the sub
scriber, ftiall feceivc the above reward, and all reafonahle charges
P a ' d - ALEXANDER ROBERTSON.
Morris-Town, April 17,1792*
36
Dollars is
2000
1000
1000
1000
tooo
1500
1800
6700
16000
BOOKS,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATHEVV CAREY,
Ho. 118. Murhtt-Strctt, Philadelphia.
1. A MERICAN MUSEUM, ft om its commencement in Ja?w
---/1l ary 1787,10 December 1791, 111 ten vols. Price, neatly
bound and lettered, fix teen dollars.
This work, which <6 now conduced on an improv? d plan, con
taining the best pieces publifhcd for and a&airrft the proceedings
of government, will be found to contain at lead as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and mifcellaneouseffavs, as any ever pub
liftied in America. Perhaps in no one work are so many valuable
documents refpefhng tVie hift©*y of this country, collected toge
ther. His Excellency the Piefident of the United States, has de
clared of if, that 4< a more ufeful literary plan has never been un
dertaken in America, nor one more deserving of public encou
ragement." The fubfeription is two dollars and a half per ann.
Gentlemen in the country who wilb to be supplied with this
work, are requested to give commiflion 10 friends in the city to
fubferibe for and receive if -Any of the back numbers may
be had in order to complete sets.
8. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss More's E(Tays f
Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pennington's Advice, Marchioness of
Lambert's Advice, Swift's Letter to a newly married Ladv, Mrs.
Chapone on command of Temper, More's Fables for the Ladies
Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New-York, from its firft fetclrinent to
the year 1732. To which is annexed, a description of the coun
try, with a short account of the inhabitants, their religious and
political state, and the conflituti»n of the courts of justice. Piice
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Seienee, by James Beattie, l. l ». pro
feffor of moral philosophy and logic in the Marifchal College,
Aberdeen—Price three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : " We have seen nothing
on these fubjc&s more plain, more perfpieuous, or more generally
ufeful." N. B. It is introduced into the University in Phila
delphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, Britifli and American, containing feleft
productions of the mod eminent Britiih and American poets-
Price four.filths of a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the three volumes
of the B» itf(h edition, in two—Price two dollars.
7. Nocker's Treatise on the importance of Religious Opinions.
Price four-fifths of a dollar.
8. Examination of the Observations of Lord Sheffield on Ame
rican Commerce—Price, on very fine paper, 5 8 hs of a dollar.
9. The Constitutions of the several United States, with the Fe
deral Constitution, See. Price five-eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in r2mo.—Price
three-eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jest Book, in two parts, with two very neat en
gravings—Price, bound, three-fifths of a dollar.
12 Garden of the Soul, by Bishop Chalenor—Price, bound in
calf and lettered, three quarters of a dollar—plain, half a dollar.
13 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bible, in quarto-
Price, elegantly bound and lettered, 50^*2 —plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecutn—Price a quarter dollar.
15. Think, well on't,or reflexions for every day of themontk.
Price a quarter dollar.
16. Christian Economy, tranfiated from a Greek manuscript,
found in the iflar.d of Patmos, where St. John wrote the Apoca
lypse —Price a fifth of a dollar.
17. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged—Price « fixthofa
dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third of a dollar.
19. Select Poems, chiefly American-.-Price a sixth of a dollar
Said Carey has for sale, a large afTortment of Books, Euro
pean as well as American editions, which he will dispose of on the
most reasonable terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied in the moftjfatisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to such as purchase quantities
for public libraries, or to fell again.
APRI L 27, 1792.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the firft day of July ensuing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firii rate Timothy Meadow, whtch mav be
watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy expenee. The upland lays in the
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marfti, from which (by an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate cxpence ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing stream of water runs through this tract, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook ; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good mansion-house, gar
den, and necessary out-buildings; an orchard of the best kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherrv ireea, bearing ; a crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Applv to
Pf.ter Le Barrier DuPlessis, Esq. No. 86, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia; Mr. Humphr ky Waterman, at the Washing
ton, on the Biiftol road; or to D'»&or Tomb, at Nelhatnany
Ferry, Bucks County. The purchaser, paying one third of the
price down, may have a term of years to pay the residue, paying
iniereft. May 5. (ep-^f.)
( e P9')
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
In the Commonwealth of Majjackujetts,
A SYSTEM for (he DISCIPLINE oj the ARTILLERY
inihe UNITED STATES of AMERICA;
THE YOUNG ARTILLERIST'S POCKETCOMPANION.
IN THREE PARTS.
Part 1 ONTAINING the duty and pra&ice of light field
artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and prattice of heavy artillery:
to which will he added, an extraffc of a Treatise on theorigm and
prnnpleof Courts-Martial, wrote by an experienced Officer in
the line, and who did duty as Judge-Advocate in America.
Part 3. Laboratory daty ; containing a great variety of directions
for c.ompofition, and the method of making arttfi ial fire-wofks,
and the formation of ammunition for the different kinds of ord-
nance.
fly WILLIAM STEVENS. Esq.
An Officer in the American Artillery through the whole of the
This work to be printed on good paper with a handsome type
neatly bound and lettered, in three pocket volumes, containing
upwards of one thousand pages; illuftrared with a great variety
oi explanatory plates, executed bv able artists.
The price to fubferibers, One Dollar each volome—to non-sub
scribers, One French Crou?n each volume : and those who fubfciibe
for fix setts, shall have a seventh gratis.
This work ftiali be published as soon as five hundred copies are
fubferibed for.
Subscription papers will be lodged with the principal Printers
Booksellers in the United States of America.
TO PC SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and raving Gold at the B»r»k of the
United States, (hewing t! e Value of Gold in Dollars an-
Cents, from One to a Thoufanci Penny weights —acr ording to e
Adl of Congrcfi, ascertaining the Stfadaid and Value of Golc
PROPOSALS
O R,
late revolution, and fmce in the Militia.
CONDITIONS