4 ™ P "" USHI r ' A "°
[No. 5 1 of Vol. IV.]
AT A MEETING OF THE
Insurance Company
NORTH-AMERICA,
Held, by adjournment, at the State-House in this
City, on the 19th inft. the following PLAN,
reported by their Committee, was unani
mouflv agreed to. and adopted as the
CONSTITUTION of the SOCIETY.
I. subscribers agree to form themselves
X ihto a society under the name of THE
INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH
AMERICA, for the purpose of carrying on the
business of allurance, and for raifmg a fund to
pay and fatisfy any lollVs which mav happen, or
any just demands which may be made upon the
said focietv.
11. The said fubferibers do severally, that is
to fay, each for himfelf, or herfelf, his or her
heirs, exccutors, administrators and afljgns,here
by covenant, promile and agree, to and with
each and every other of the subs ribers, their
and each and every of their heirs, executors, ad
ministrators and alliens, and to and with all and
every Maraud pvr'on* wftqt <h»ll herenfter bc
corr.eafTured in the office of thecomoany, to do,
fulfil and perform each and every of the articles
of this afTociation, and such other articles as
shall hereafter from tim<? to time be made and
agreed upon by the members of this afTociation
at any of their general meetings: Provided ne
vcTthelefs, That no fubferiber, or his or her af
fignce, (hall be bound, or held responsible to the
othT fubferibers, or any of them, their or anv
of their assigns, or to any person or persons who
hall become aflured by the company, for any
sum or sums of money or other charge whatso
ever exceeding rhe amount of his or her share
or interest in this afTociation.
111. The capital stock of The Insurance Com
pany of North-America shall not exceed fix
hundred thousand dollars ; and {hall be divided
into fixty # thousand shares, of ten dollars each ;
and a fubfeription towards constituting; such
stock shall be opened in the city of Philadel
phia on the 20th day of November, 1 792. under
the infpe&ion of Ebenezer Hazard, and /hall
continue open until the -whole of the said stock
shall have been fubferibed.
IV. Any per fori or persons, copartnership or
hn.ly a.av fubfcrilu- to A hit iflbciatiow j
and the (hares fubferibed (hall be paid for by
instalments as follows; that is to fay,
For each and every share fubferibed, there
shall be oaid—
One Dollar at the time of subscribing,
One Dollar on the 2d Monday of July, 1793,
Two Dollars on the 2d Monday of January,
1 794-
Two Dollars on the 2d Monday of July, 1794.
Two Dollars on the 2d Monday of January,
"795-
And two Dolters on the 2d Monday ps Tuly.
1795-
Provided, That until the twelfth dav of De
cember next, the payment of the firft instalment
shall be made in the receipts iflued by the 3g» nts
and fecretarv of the late Universal Tontine As
sociation ; and after the said twrlfth day of De
cember, no person (Vial! fubferibe for a greater
number of shares than twenty.
And the monies so paid shall he vefted-in such
securities of the United States, or of the state of
Pcnnfvlvania, or in the stock of the bank of the
United States, or of the bank of North-Ame
nca,;is shall by the Board of Direftot s be thought
mod advifeable.
V. If any fubferiber or other owner of any
lha<c or (hares, shall negle£t to pay any one of
the lnftalnaents on the day before apoointed for
the payment thereof, such fubferiber or other
owner shall forfeit all the monies which fhal!
have been paid on account of such shares ; and
.11 moreover forfeit alt his or her right, title,
jntereft, claim and demand, resulting from such
* ares, of, in, and to ihe funds ol this afTociation,
ana the privileges thereof All monies so for
feited shall enure to the use and benefit of the
company.
, Ever y fubferiber to these articles, his or
eraHignee, or other legal representative, fliall
e considered as being to all intents and pur-
P" a member of The Insurance Comoanv of
fl "°mu' "^ mcnca : i)nc * a " shares held in the fame
iai be transferable in such manner, and under
luch regulations as the Direaors of the Comoa
n>'mall determine and dirett.
. we " ordering and conducing
the »ff«its-of the company, there fh II he fifteen
Uireetors ehofen by ballot .on the pd Tnefdav of
Janittry m each year, bv the Stockholders,'by
.Plurality of votes ; and the Directors so ehofen.
T unt'-l the expiration of the 2d
of J anyarv next ensuing such eltfiion,
«M*«fo., g er: Provided; That as soon as fonv
woufaoa (hires (lull |,av« been ftibfcribed, no
lice tnertoj shall he given by the said Ebenezer
,wo o( lhc newfpaDers pub
,Hß*d in the city of Philadelphia ; and the said
Meneier Hazard (hall at the fame time and in
'Jl *?? ner ' nol 'fy a day "Ot more than ten
- from the date of fucb notification,
t»r proceeding to theelrftion of Directors, at a
' tbecitvof Philadelphia, to be therein
JWei&ed: At which time and place the elettion
■ kill's 1 and ,be P" foßs then ehofen shall
Wthefirft Dlrefiors, and (hall forthwith com
'3S"j2o|fr»',o»» ° f The Infur.oce Cum.
t i b: ' Aracrica - The >' shall continue
Saturday, November 24, 1 y ()2 .
VIII, The Directors cbofen as aforefaid (lull,
at their full meeting, elect by ballot, our of
their number to be Prefid< nt of the commn\,
and (ball then dwide themselves (excluding the
President) iiito committee?, each' committee to
confiftof two D reifors. The laid committees
shall attend at the office of the comnnny every
week, in rotation ; and the attending commit
tee, with the President, (who (hall a;fo atiend
daily at the office) shall have full pow 1 and au
thoriiy, id the name and on behalf of the conr
pany, to nuke fie h infurantes upon ▼ Mfels ar.d
merchandize at sea, or going to sea, or upon the
life or lives of any person or p. rfoas, or upon
any goods, wares, merchandize or other pro
perty crone or going by land or by water; and
at such fates of inlurance, or premium, as they
•nail deem advifeable. And they Ih.ill, gene
rally, do and ttanfaft, on behalf of the compa
ny, all the business usually attending infur.m < s
on the objrfts aforefaid ; fubjeft, nevertheless*
to such regulations as the Stockholders at any
genera' rncefmg shall think proper to make; and
fnbjeft also to such rules and regulations as the
Board of Dire&ors (ball, from time to time
make, relating to the hnfmefs of the companv.
Until fht.H b<-K-g- 'ly
rated, al! note.% deeds, or other securities taken
for the use of the companv, shall betaken in the
name of the President, as such ; and all policies
shall be signed hv the President, as such ; and
such signing shall Vie deemed and taken to be
the ast of each member of the company, and*
for which the President (hall not be liable to
any peculiar perlonal refponfibilitv ;—and, in
oidcr to prevent difputea, there shall be inserted
in every policy, a clause or covenant purporting
that the allured confiderg thr President as acting
on behalf of the company, and'ieleafes him from
all personal responsibility on account of such sig
nature. But when the company (hall have been
legally incorporated, the policies fhail un
der the seal of the corporation, and be attested
by their Secretary.
The President shall lay before the Board of
Dnerrors, at each of their meetings, an account
of the proceedings of the committees since the
lift meeting of the Board.
IX. There shall be stated meetings of the
Board of Dire&ors once in every fortnight, and
occasional meetings at such other times as the
President shall think proper : At all which meet
ings the President (hall preside, but shall have
no vo»e on any queitioii, except in cale or an
equality of votes, in which cafe he shall have
the cafling voice.
Two thirds of the whole number of Direc
tors, whereof the Frcfident shall be one, shall
form a quorum ; and all questions before ?he
Boaid shall be decided by a plurality of votes :
But no vote shall be re-confHercd by a less
number than was present when such vote parted.
X. The Board of Directors shall have power
to employ such and so many officers, clerks and
other afTillants, as they shall from time to time
find necefTary, and to make just and reasonable
compensat ions to theperfonsemployed by (hern.
They shall also have power to establish rules and
legulations for transferring shares in the com
pany's stock, and for the management of the
company's concerns. -SThey shall superintend,
generally, the whole business of the company,—
fhail examine the proceed ings of thecommittees,
and all oilicers employed ;— they shall keep fair
minutes of their own proceedings, and submit
the fame to the infpe£l:on of the Siockholders at
every of their stated general meetings.
XI. The Stockholders shall meet together on
the fccond Tuesday of January in every year, af
ter the firft election of Directors, for the pur
pose of examining into the situation of the com
pany's affairs, and for jpaking such additional
and other rules and regulations as they shall
judge necefTary and in all questions coming
before such meetings, as well as in the choice of
Dire6tors, they shall refpeftivcly vote according
to their several interefls in the company's stock,
in rhe following ratio ; that is to fay,
Every member shall be entitled to one-vote
for e.ich share of stock be or she shall hold ;
Provided, That no member shall have more than
fifty votes : And provided a/so, That no proprie
tor of stock shall vote at any election for Direct
ors (after the firft) unless the stock ./hall have
stood in his own name on the company's books
three months next preceding the time of such
election. But any member may vote cither for
Directors, or upon any other business, by his
proxy duly authorised ; and every rule, ordi
nance and regulation made at any such meetings,
shall be binding on each member of the society
as fully to all intents and pui poles as if each and
every member were personally present, and con
senting thereto.
XII. In cafe ot the sickness or nccefTiry ab-
Ifncc of the President, his placc shall be supplied
by such other Dire&or as ihe Board fhali ap
point for rhat purpose.
XIII. NoDieftor shall be entitled to any
emolument unless the fame fliall be agreed.to at
a general meeting of the Stockholders ; but the
companv shall allow the President a realonable
compensation for his extraordinary attendance
on their butinefs.
XIV. The Dire&ors (hall on the firft Mon
day of January and the firft Monday of July
relpe&ively in everv year, declare a dividend of
so much ot the profits of the society as to them
shall appear advifeable ; and the dividend so de
clared, fhsnl be paid to the refpe£hve proprie
tors in seven days after the fame lhall be so made.
—But the monies received as* premiums on
rifques which (hall be undetermined and out
ilauding at the time of making fucb dividend,
201
be eonfidered as a part of the profits nf
Ihe company. And in cale of any loft or lolTrs
"hereby the■ c,p,,,| stock of the f„-i (h.il) bc
ncd, nofubTcquent dividends thai! L,e made
"on) d film equal to such diminution, and
ft,n ' hc prnfi " and intcr 'ft' of the Co. iety,
Ih.ill ik ve been added to the caoitei].
XV Th. company (hall hold no real estate
0 . r 1 such as (hall be nece.Taiv forthe con.
venient traniaction of their b,■■in. Is or (hall
PC bona fide moitgajcd to them bv wjv ot le
curily ;-or conveyed to tlieio in faiisfaftion of
debtsi;-or purchafcd at sales upon judgments
which (h .1 have been oot.aned n- on i'ebd due
to them.
XVI. A ly member of the Insurance Com
pan) ot North-America, may at any time be
come alTufed by the company, on any (hip or
ve.Tel, goods, merchandize or lives, in the fame
mwfler, and to the fame effect, as if such mem
ber had no interelt in the company.
Extra' 7 Jrom the minutes,
HBENEZKR HAZARD, Secretary.
* hilddclphix, Novzmbzr iqM, 1792.
lot the G AZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
IV was my intention to have closed with
-I my lad paper, the difcufiion of Mr. Tc:fer
fon's conduct in the particulars which have
been suggested ; but the lingular complexion
of the last of a series of papers ori
ginating tn the American Daily Advertiser,
obliges me to resume it.
As it bold aflertion were capable of impos
ing any thing for truth, an attempt is made
in the paper alluded to, to impress the follow
ing opinions, id. That the extract which was
given of Mr. Jefferfon's letter on the ''übjeft
of a proportion for the transfer of the French
debt, is " falfe," " deceptive," and " muti
lated." Thefearethe epithets in different
pauages applied to it. 2d, That Mr. feffer
fon was the mere vehicle, or to use the pre
cise terms, " only the vehicle of communica
tion to Congress." 3d, That he « dilcounte
nimced" the proportion. 4th, That, the "on
ly' proposition which he made to Congress
was to borrow the money in HoJfand to dis
charge the debt.
To give colour to these aflertions, I am
called upon to produce the entire paragraph
y It,;c extract has been made, and it
is suggested, that the whole was deposited in
the quarter, from whence the extract is be
lieved to been taken.
I pledge my veracity that this suggestion is
unfounded ; as is another—that the informa
tion *ljjch has been communicated by me is
derived from the opportunities of official situ
ation. I affirm unequivocally, that I obtain
ed through different channels a full knowledge
of the tranfaaior, i □ February, 1787 —being
in 110 public station whatever—that I ther>
saw the extract, which has been publilhed,
and which was at that time taken from the
original letter, and has been since preserved,
in the mod: authentic form—That I then al
so received information equally authentic of
the general substance of the letter, as relating
to the matter in queiliou, and of all other per
ticulars concerning it, which have heretofore
been ftatea, and which have been prefetved,
in a manner, that admits no doubt of their ac
curacy or genuineness.
For this, I again appeal to the letter itfelf,
on the flies of the department of state, where
aborts, as far as I am informed, its entire con
tents are tfepofited, and which I entertain no
doubt will conliim not only the truth of the
extract which has been but thejuftnefs
of the representation of the contents of the
letter in all other sefpefts.
Canfidsring th? extraftas genuine, which un
doubtedly it is, it speaks for itfelf—and une
quivocally falfifies the fugreftion that Mr.
Jefterfor) was " only the vtkidt" of communi
cation to Congrefs—lt impsgfc without the
pofllbility of evalion, advice toWGde to thepro
pofition which was made to the Dutca Com
pany, on the dilhonorable ground of there be
ing danger, that the public payments would
nor be punctual, and of its being in that cafe ex
pedient to traiiijer the d'ftontevti, which would
arise from the want of punftualitv, from the
court of France, to the breajls of a irivate compa
ny—lt therefore clearly maizes hi'm more than
the mere vehicle of communication—the pa
tron and adviser of the rneafure upon the con
dition which has been Hated It as clearlv
refutes the aftoni/liing aflerti.w, that he "dif-
the proportion j whatever
fubterfuge may be brought to colour it—And
it equally deftrovs the other allegation, that
the only proposition which Mr. Jeiferfon made
to Congress, was to borrow the money in Hol
land to discharge the debt.
It has been admitted, that there was ano
ther proportion, in the fame letter, of that
import; but it is denied under the appeal
which has been made, that it in any manner
derogates from the advice contained in the
extract.—lt is underitood to have been offer
ed as an alternative ; in cafe the proportion
of the Dutch Company {hould not be approved
—As another mods? which might be adopted t(#
effect the payment to France.
It wiJJ be remarked by an attentive read
er, that while an artful attempt is made to
* Xo. IV.
[Whole No
bring into ,pe!Voo ti;e of tht .
tr.iC, a c.i:> t rfonnl of it! -eottiwwf, i,
handed— ficcnur'e is had to equivocal im
plications. It i- (aid to be "fa lie an;! rie-
Sr ter! " S » b ' ' ""P°" 3
onttrucr-o:, -that '• the c„„:e .f; of the let
er thctKtr „. 7 imbhf , r , L ~.e .
a - »fr<: M r '* tUa - ** »; -
I-V,-'i thdt " " ther Parts of
" •ibtolutely nctclfary for the full
eompreuenlior. ot it, are kept back"—Tl d
Cpv"r° ""TV" 8 * *"*'«"■>'***** from
' P ,j ; ~ l e a,,d deceptive, tp„ „
ca "j "°"i '"> a proof of the embarraffmer.t
tf ' e c °'» ™«ator. Whoever will examine
the ext. aA will perceive, that as to the pur
port, to winch,t has been applied, it han «-
tiling. Th e lentnnent reprobated is there
aftec - ed by " othin ß co >-
i , "ilerenecs refuting from it
"? r '^ V - Cpe -. by ea:l blifting that the
not be jietend"l ' a ' fc—T,lls 1 lwtieve wia
rt 1 1 as little true (in the fenfc j„ which it
is evident!}' meant to be .mdcrftnnd) that the
popo'iti.rMortfir transfer of He oebt faai
been in V o:ed upon Mr. Jefre. son as his own,
as it is that he clifcountenancei) it. It has
ath.mr.vledge,!, that the osier was firft
made by the Dutch Company ; ami has onlv
been maintained that JMr. [eiferfon advised
its acceptance on principles cor.trarv to food
mo.als; a position which can never be over
thrown without introducing 4 new fvftem of
ethics—ln tins sense too, and with the disap
probation which belonged to it, -a, it u£
derftood by thole to wi cm the advice was ad
d relied, to the honor of the public Councils of
tne cia.v.
J' uggefted that the animadversions up
on 1•• I;- ferfWs conduct, in these papers,
proceed from " private revenue." This fup
pole S some private injury real or imagined-—The
a'iertor must be not a little embarrafled to
uppj't t.ie probability of such a cause [t is
affirmed that none such exists. Private re
venge therefore cannot the ftimuious. Let
Fails (peak the true motives.
" Everyman is born with no (mall propen
sity to power, riches, and pleasure ; and lias
naturally a delight in indolence ; consequent
ly every man ir. for having the *noncy, wives
or daughters of others; would fubj.-ct them
all to his humors, and do no work, or at least
what only pleased himfelf. We may fee that
for men with such dispositions to he equal is
as irupoiSble as that two preachers, or two
profeflors of divinity, (hculdnot be jealous of
one another.
" Mankind, in the present state, 'cannot
subsist, nnlefs an infinity of ufeful mcn«liave
the misfortune us being without any pofle/fion
whatever; for, to be sure, no man in easy
circuinflaiices v/ill plough your -rounds ; and
if you are in want of a pair ot' /hoes, youmuft
find some other hand than a fcijeant at law or
a judge advocate, to make them for yoti»
Thus inequality is, at the fame time, both
the most natural and the mod chimerical
thing in the ivorid.
" Men beingexceffive in every thing where
they can bs so; this inequality has been carri
ed too far ; in several governments it is a
standing maxiqi, that a citizen is not allowed
to quit the country where he happened to be
born : the import of such a law is visibly this :
the country is fa bad nod ill governed, tint we forbid
anjptrfoni whatever to go out, left every body should
have it—A good government will ast more
wifely • it will create in its fubjefts a delight
to remain ; in foreigners, a desire of cominr
thither."
AT an ciefiion in a certain State,'a bye
ftander observing the particular situation of
a great number of the electors, who had been
regaled at the expence of one of the candi-.
dates, remarked on the occasion, Thul the
* oice ojtke people, torn the Yoice oj Groo.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) Nov. 7.
It appears by the votes returned for Fede
ral Representatives, that the people of this
State have made choice of the Hon. Jeremiah.
Smith, Nicholas Oilman, and John S, Sher
burne, Efq'rs. as three of their Reprefenta
tivi-s' in the Congress of the United States.—.
The Hon. Paine Wingate, and Abiel Foster,
Lrq'rs. fceih" thj hlgheft on the nomination
lift, will be the two gentlemen to be sent out
again for the people to make choice of one of'
them to fill the vacancy.
The votes returned were for the
Hon. Jeremiah Smith,
"■Jicliolas Giiinan,
John S. Sherburne,
Paine Wiiigate,
Abiel Foster,
* Janios Sheafe,
"Nathaniel Peahody,
Timothy Walker,
William Page,
Joshua Atliei ton,
Sundry scattering votes.
n W
*' >
CATULLUS.
EXTRACT.
ANECDOTE.
4p6
2912
2536
2168
ijiß
1460 »
1370
706
404
402CONGRESS.
BOIfSF OF RF.PFF.SENTAI7VFS.
Man Jay, September 19.
The henfe went . • a committee of the
whole, Mr. LawraC in the chair, on the
Prtainent's
On that r 1 i t \. 1. '<* relates to the reduction ot
the publi d«bf, T"v.r. VitMimons offered a refo
lunon ro the to tawing purport : —
Refold ;1, - the opinion of this committee,
that for the reduction of so much of
■the r-.t-r'.ij debt as the United Suites have a npht
o redeem, ought to he adopted. And that the
iccretafy the treasury be directed to report a
plan for that purpose.
Mr. Madifoil wiihed for information before
he couldagreeto the.motion just made. Theexact
fiate of our finances he conceived neceflary to
be well known before measures were taken for
the reJu&ion of the debt. The house of repre
fentati- es had already unequivocally expressed
their general sentiments 011 the fubjedV, in their
anfwerto t&e President's speech; but it was not
time, he conceived, for the adoption of mea
sures with a view to realize what appeared the
general wish, until the information on which
those measures were to be grounded, was re
tived
Mr. Fitzfimons argued, that the motion, if
adopted, would call forth the information neces
sary to ground a final measure upon. The re
commendation from the President >vas strong,
and the anfwerof the house as pofitiv<;; no de
ference of opinion, he therefore supposed, could
cxift as to the propriety of reducing the debt.
The United States had paid a valuable, consi
deration for the right of reducing it, and the
firft opportunity of making use of that right, he
conceived the best.
Mr. Williamfon was of opinion, that infor
mation would come in of course. The Presi
dent, .he fuggeflcd, 110 doubt was acquainted
with the firuation of the revenue when he re •
commended the reduction oi the debt at the
present time. He fliould be in favour of the mo
tion. He declared it as his opinion, that our
public debt was our moll dangerous enemy ; he
wished it could be reduced twice as fa ft ; the ir
redeemable quality of part of it he much dis
liked.
Mr. Madison again expreffcd it as his opini
on, that information ftiould form the basis of
any provision for the redu&ion of the debt. If
the motion was carried, information no doubt
could be obtained before the final adoption of
any measure ; but he insisted on the necessity of
making that information the groundwork of any
proceeding on so important a fubjevSt
Mr. Mercer, No question, he conceived, was
of more importance than that involved in the
motion before the house. He wiftied for time
to make up his mind on i . It involved one ques
tion which had occafisned very warm debate in
the house, and which was decided but by a small
majority—he alluded to the reference mad«
la'.l fellion to the secretary of the treasury.
He conceived it improper to commit to any
man, what he was bound himfelf to do. He con
ceived the power of the house to originate plans
of finance, to lay new burthens on the people
entrusted to them by their conftituei}ts, as in
communicable.
As to the main objeA of the motion, he ra
ther doubted the propriety of adopting, at pre
sent, a permanent system for the redu&ion of
the public debt.
The noufe, he said, ftcod in a very delicate
fituatlon—a fuller representation will shortly
succeed the prel'ent. He saw a propriety in
making a temporary provision to redeem, in or
der to lecure the right of reducing - in future.
He hoped the house would consent to a delay of
a day or two, when members would be better
prepare d.
Mr. Smith, S. C. conceived, that, as the mo
tion had been made alid seconded, some decision
raufl be obtained on it, or that the committee
must rife, He saw no good realon for leaving it
to afiture house, to adopt a permanent plan of
reduction. If it was now thought too early a
period to accomplilh l'o dt-firnbte an obje<sl, it
would be a good reason for deferring it; but if
it was full time, meafuresfor that purpose (honld
be adopted, they should go forward. Iftlie gen
tleman required further time to make up his
mind, the committee might rife and fit again in
a day or two.
He next made some reply to the objedionsof
the gentleman last up, to that part of the mo
tion which contemplated a reference to the se
cretary of the treasury. The ultimate decision,
he remarked, in no one point, was relinquished
by such a reference. If such a reference was un
conllitutional, he observed, much business had
been conduced in the house in an unconflitu
tioiial manner, by repeated references to the
Jttacis of departments. The reference of btffinefs
to feled committees would be unconstitution
al, he laid, on the fame ground.
Turning oil ihe main question—the house,
he conceived, were in poffefijon of informatiin
already, that wculd warrant a beginning in the
work of reducing the public debt. From the re
port of the trulrees of the finking fund, lead in
the morning, it appeared, that they had funds
remaining in tbeir hands.
' house rad pledged themselves in their an
swer to the PrcfiJcrit's addrefj, to proceed on
the ti' if-; now to refer the bufinrfi to a future
Congr.rl . would appear like great relnftance to
j'O i T 'tot\e meaiure, and wo p. id argue great un
ite*(!. i: ■!i. Ihe f\ flem to he adopted for the
purpw'e contem; could not, he conceived,
b. attempted, in the firA uiftance, info Urge a
body , s a committee of the whole house. He
hopt. the pueftion rn the motion would obtain
a decide :it the present time; but if thegentle
n.an perfiiled in refuelling a delay, he wilhed
the committee to rife and alk leave to lit a°ain.
Mr. Sedgwick coareived, the house duf not
need any more information than they were in
pofTciTxdn of, to fee 'the propriety of adopting
immediate ineafuresfor the redu&ion of the debt.
The United States, it was evident, he said,
are paying more than the market interest upon
their debt—it fells above par, and, considering
the rate at which loans can he obtained in Eu
rope 011 the credit of the United States, that
mode of reducing the deb' was, he said, incon
trovcrtibly eligible. It would be economical for
an individual, in similar circumstances, to cffe&
a reduction, and the cafe wa» the fame, the U
nited States being in the place of that individual.
It was agreed to in the house, he f.iid, and re
echoed out of doors, that a public debt was a
public evil; it was the duty, therefore, of the
representative* of the people, to use all the
means in their power, whenever opportunity
offjred, to reduce it.
He made some observations on the propriety
of referring the business to the secretary for in
formation and his opinion, and concluded by de
claring, that, viewing the main question as he
firfl dated, he could not fee any neceflity in de
ferring a question on the motion.
Mr. Mercer expressed some surprise at the
disinclination some gentlemen appeared to {hew
to a full difcufiion on so important a lubje&. He
again obfe&ed to a reference. That mode of
conducing business in the house, he said, had
p-iven very general diffatisfa&ion. The mode
was adopted by a small majority—the hcufe had
received, since its aaoption, an acceflion of new
memkers—beiides, since, every member had mix
ed with his conftituentSj and opinions might
consequently have varied since that tin I .®. For
his part, he said, he,ftiould pay great and im
plicit regard t<» the opinion of his constituents.
He again adverted to the nature c>f the trust
reposed in the house by the conftitmion, in ori
ginating money hills, See. and dwelt on the
true import of the word originate, which he
conceived could not be explained away, so as to
warrant a reference. Besides, he argued, is not
a body fetched from millions of the people,
more adequate to the talk of originating., than
a single man.
He hoped, that refpeft to the frefident's re
commendation would never make the house in
attentive to the great interests of the people.
The President's address had not been so long
before the house, as that a Ihort delay fnould ar
gue difrefpeiffc.
But the President, in his address, did not, he
said, recommend a reference to the secretary.
He was willing to give a decision on the firft
part of the motion—though he would pi sfer a
delay of a day or two; if this, however, was
not granted, he fhouU call, he said, for adivi
fion of the queirion,
He again adverted to the propriety < f taking
advantage of the redeemable quality of our deb.t
as soon as poflible; observing that the next term
of payment of interest came round with the new
year.
Mr. Fkzumons observed that he was in the
minority on the question adverted to by the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Mercer) —
that he had not since altered his opinion upon
that fubji A, but eonfidered tke present reference
as very different from the former, and entirely
within the letter and spirit of the a <51 for eftab
lifliing the treasury department. He did not
believe it would be n ceffary to impose addition
al burdens, to effeA a reduction ©f the debt.
He believed that the existing finances, aflifted
by a foreign loan, would enable the United
States to accomplish the objed;.
As to the reports from the treasury or other
officers, —they will Hand 011 their own merits.
If they are bad, they will be rejected.
Mr. Mkdifo'e drew a diftin&ion between the
deliberative functions of the house and the mi
nifterul functions of the Executive Powers. The
deliberative functions, he conceived, Ihould be
firftexercilcd before the miniflerial began t«a&.
It should be decided by the house, in the firft in
stance, he conceived, whether the debt should
be reduced by iniponng new taxes, or by varying
the burdens, or by new loans. The fundamen
tal principles of any nieafure he was of opinion,
should be decided in the house, perhaps even be
fore * reference to a felecß: committee. He did
not pretend to determine whether the motion
now before the house might not involve a refer
ence of a ministerial nature merely. But he well
knew, he said, that the a«sl eltablifliing the Trea
sury depaitment had beep so construed as to
give it a greater latitude than was contempla
ted when the lawpatted,muchagainft the opinion
of a great portion of the people. In the infancy
of our government, that latitude, perhaps might
be neccffary; but he saw no ncceiftty for it at
present. w
Mr. Fage eppofed a division of the question
as precluding debate. He wished the motion a
mended, by striking out the last part.
Mr. Findley was against a reference to the Se
cretary of the Treasury of a matter, which, he
conceived, was made the exclusive business of the
house by the constitution.
Mr. Mercer expressed himfclf in favour of
striking out the lafl part of the motion.
Mr. Hiilhoufe wa» of a different opinion. H«
conflituents, he conceived, expected their busi
ness to be done in the bell manner pofTible, and
that he Ihould not rely on his own information
only, but endeavour to avail himfelf of the in
formation of others, He said he Ihould consider
himfelf unequal to the talk of taking a (hare in
legislating for the Union if he was to depend 011
his own information alone. He expeifted to de
rive information from every lource. It was the
intention of meeting in Congreli to <olle£t in
foi mation from every quarter.
He ftiould defpile any one, he iaid, he
Ihould defpile himfelf if he thought his judg
ment could be ire properly influencedby aHyplan
reported by any of the heads of department. If
any fyfttrm, originating \»ith the head of a de
partment appeared the bed that could be devised
it fht-uld meet the sppiobation of the house ; but
if any amendment was thought of, it was the
duty of tt e houle £0 adopt or reject it according
to its merits.
202
He considered reports In the light of informa
tion, and dwelt on the necessity of receiving in
formation, from every quarter. He was against
ftnking out.
Mr. Find ley was in favour of ft risking out.
He was a friend to information, he said, but the
reports from heads of departments lie did not
consider in the light of information merely. It
was information, and plans built on that, and
those plans supported by arguments.
Though a law, he said, had made it the pro
vince of the Secretary of the Treasury to repprt
tl ofe plans ; —the conflitution had not enjoined
the house to refer; and he hoped the house, be
ing the masters of their own proceedings, would
originate such measures themselves.
The house had aright to, and, he conceived
ftiould call for what information was wanted to
enable them to digest their own plans.
Mr. Murray observed, that the debate on the
propriety of referring to the Secretary of the
Treasury the business contemplated in the mo
tion, had produced but few new arguments ; it
was a repetition of what was said when the fub
jcA was before the house at another time.
One new idea, however, he observed, had fal
len from the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Ma
dilon) viz. his diftin&ion between deliberative
and ministerial fun&ions. This diflin&ion, he
conceived, is qualified by the nature of things.
It i- qualified in this instance, by the law
which establishes the Treasury department, That
law makes it the duty of the Secretary, to'digeft
and report plans to ameliorate our finances,with
out any call from the house. True the business
of the house is to deliberate ;but by references,
naither is the power of the house to deliberate
infringed, nor does it give the Secretary a right
legislatively to deliberate, but to deliberate mi
nisterially; and it was important, he conceived,
in a government framed like ours that such offi
cers (hould have the power to deliberate in that
manner. The result of their deliberations was
not obligatory on the house, —no further than it
was warranted by wifdem.
He was averse to striking out —was willing
to allow further time for confederation. He
should like to fee, for his own part, a statement
of the revenue.
He again expressed it as his firm opinion, that
a report from the head of a department could no
further influence the house, than by the weight
of ths wisdom it contained.
Whenevtr ministerial influence, he observed,
was felt in the house, othenvife than by weight
of wisdom, it would but little matter, he concei
ved, whether Secretaries had it in their power to
report plans or not. Reports, he conceived,
would never have an improper influence, as long
as the legislature preserved their character for
wisdom and integrity.
The information to be derived from the head
of a department, could never, he suggested, be
\obtained in a more proper manner, than by mak
ing it the foundation of deliberation. Suppoling
the house should undertake to originate without
this previous step, and a difficulty should occur
for want of information ; it would be he concei
ved, derogatory to the dignity of the house to
appiy then to the Secretary for afliftante, and
more dangerous to proceed in error or ig-
Jiorance.
He rather wished for a fliort delay ; —but if
the question was urged, he lhould certainly vote,
he said, against ftrikingout.
Mr. Madison saw some difficulty in drawing
the exa<sl line between fubjeibof legillative and
miniftei ial deliberations; but llill I'uch a line
tnoft certainly existed. Gentlemen v;ho ar
gued the propriety of calling t>n the Secreta
ry for information, plans and proportion*, in
volved the propriety of permitting that oHicer
in the shape of a plan or measure to propose a
new tax, and lay whether it should be a dired:
or indirect one. Yet, if it wns proposed directly
to give this power to the Secretary, few mem
bers, ke believed, would agree to it. He was in
favour of striking out.
Mr. Gerry said, that while the law eftablifli
injj th£ Trtafury department was under conside
ration, he had opposed that part of the bill which
gave the Secrtiiiy power propoue to the liouie
a tax and a plan to carry it into execution. He
conceived such a powei; contrary to the princi
ples of the constitution. This power i* however,
involved in that part of the law which autho
rizes him to propose, without being called on,
plans for the lupport of credit, for the redu&ion
of the publie debt,&c. The Secretary, neverthe-
knowing probably, that that power, grant
ed him by the law, was looked upon with & jea
lous eye by many members of the house, has ne
ver exercificd it.
He, however, was not averse to referring the
obje& of the motion to the Secretary. lie law
an impofiibility, if taken up in a committee of
the whole, in rendering the intended measure
an uniform part of the gntat financial whole.
The clashing of varioas opinions would prevent
it.
If the influence of the Secretary was formi
dable he conceived, it would be much more
dangerous if exerted againfl a ft:le& committee,
than in the whole house.
He hoped the last part of the resolution would
not be struck out.
On motion »-be committee rofr, repprted pro
grcfs and aiked leave to fit again.
House adjourned.
Sketch of the Observations ivh'ub ivere made on
MR. Murray'S Motion,
That a Committee be appointed to bring in a
Bilifupplementary to the Militia Law
pafled the last feflion.
Mr. Liveririore rose to enquire, what parti
cular part of the law, was the objed of the re
solution?
Mr. Murray explained; he informed the house
that it had special reference to the clause which
refpe&s arming the militia. He said, the injunc
tions of the law, in this particular, imposed c
qual burthens, on Ihoulders infinitely difpropor
tioned as to their capacity i,o sustain them : it
duties en the major part of the mfiin.
ci such a nature, as renders the iaw totall? un*
practicable. A man not worth one fartlunp, i„
iubjc&ed to the fame expence with one who msy
be worth ten thouiknd pounds a year: the ine
quality, evident in the operation of such a requi
fitioii, is a plaring infiance of injustice, and calls
«idly for legislative interposition and relief.
adverted* to the paiticular lituation of the
Oate of Maryland, to !'ic\v the impr»6tic»bilitT
of carrying the law into exception in that part
of the Ur.ini!.
Mr. Will:, mfon si e.>cl'»r 1 an alteration in the
rtfotution. Ii Would be better, in his opinion,
to have it read, a bill to amend the militia law.
He moved for this alteration.—Mr. WJlliamfon
ohferved, that he thought the law fufeptiblc of
ftveral amendments; but with refp-c; to the ob
jection of the gentleman from Maryland, he said
it npplied with equal force to many other part»
of the law, particularly with regard to the gen
eral performance of militia duty.
Mr. Livermore stated fonie obje&ioni to the
indefitenefs of the resolution.
Mr. Greenup ohferved, that he had fecondcd
the motion of the gentleman from Maryland,
because he thought many parts of the law might
be amended in fucli manner, as to make it more
applicable to ths circumlUnces of the state of
Kentucky; which, from its peculiar situation,
could not derive those advantages from the law,
which other parts of the Union might; the want
of which were l'enfibly felt. He preferred adopt
ing the words to amend, in lieu of ' fupplemeil
lary.'
Mr. Hillhoufe obje«sled to the motion: he
thought that competent relief, in the cafe com
plained of, might be obtained from tke state le
gislature. He added, that the law had fcarc»ly
got into operation; some of the Rates have made
provision to carry it into execution; others are
about doing the fame: and he doubted the poli
cy, exceedingly, of taking any lltps in the bufi
ncls, before any experience of the law hail been
had.
Mr. Fitzfimons offered some remarks of a si-
milar nature.
Mr. Mercer supported the Motion. He or.
ged a variety of reasons, to (hew the importance
of taking immediate measures to amend and »
meliorate the law: if thii is not don*, faidhe,
it will fan&ion the idea, already entertained by
many of the refpe&afcle citizens of the Union,
that there is a disinclination, on the part of ma
ny members of the legislature, to provide for an
ufFedtive militia—that a neceflity may be indu*
ced for a (landing army. He adverted to the
injufticc of the requisition, which enjoins, that
a man who is not worth twenty (hillings, ftiould
incur an expence of twenty pounds, fti equip
ping himfelf as a militia man.
Mr. Murray's motion, for a committee, was
negatived; fourteen members, only, rising in
the affirmative.
IVednefday, November 21.
The petition of John Sinclair
others was read, praying a settlement M
their accounts for public services—Laid
on the table.
Mr. Lee moved for the order of the
day on the fubje£t of loft certificates.—
This motion was w ayed, to take into con-
the report of the Committee of
the whole on the Prefidcntfs speech. The
several relolutions agreed to by the com
mittee were read,-; but the house being
thin their consideration was deferred.
Mr. Murray called for the resolution which
he laid on the table yesterday, " that a com
mittee be appointed to repeal that clause of
the militia Jaw which relates to the arming
the milita t: is being read,
Mr. Murray said he ilill bad hopes, though
hir. iirft motion the day before had failed.—
The present motion was to repeal the clause
which he hoped to prove obnoxiou^—as it
•was more limited than the former one—and
as he did not mean by this to £o into a general
revilion of the whole law, out confine the re
pca> and fnbftitute to the arming claufe,he ima*
gined many gentlemen Would frpport his in
tentions, who yesterday were averse to open
ing the whole law to revision. The clause in
question was obnoxious to his constituents —a
late and most intimate knowledge of his dif
tr"usl had enabled him with great confidence
to fay so ; and he had reason to believe that
unlets an alteration in the law took place, no
a6t of the legislature of Maryland would give
it the desired operatien in fhat llatc. The
clause was difagrceable to his constituents,
becanfe it was oppreflive in principle, and im
practicable in its operation. It was a princi
p'e of political justice which no occasion couid
dispense with, that prote&ion and taxation
should be commensurate* That wherever a
ta'x was levy'd for the protection of fodct},
its apportionment among individuals should
be as exa<stly as polTibls porrefpondent with
tlfe property of each individual. There is «*
much justice in this, that he did notJnppo.e it
would be controverted. The opprcilion t. at
will be felt in the operation of this clau.e,
flows from the violation of that princip c.
The obligation to arm in a particular man
ner, as it vill produce a uniform expence on
men of unequal property, m ill prove a tax
that will ast unjustly, becai.fe unequally—
m~n will not pay agreeably so their propei ty.
To illustrate this iseafy, and the plaineftmode
of the truth. By the law, he who s
past his forty-fifth vear, is exempt from mi
litia duty. It mull: often happen that men
of large fortune will thus contribute nothins
toward- thi species of ftfotrftion, v.mle the
man of very fmali fortune will be obl-.ged to
futnifli largelyto if, if the father of a family
capable and of age to hear anus, lor tne
fake of harmonv ai d a ready clifpriitwn to fall
into a patriotic impul'e, he much doubted
whether his constituents povM have mur
mured much at the violation ot the principal
%
•#bat tlie impracticability of this clause obliges
them to leek relief through their repre.'enta
tives- Tl|C ' t!ie diftri<ft be came from,
he much feared couki not be executed. Each
mjlitia-niaq is to tome into the field with a
jnulket, or firelock, a bayonet,, cartoucli-box,
and Otfcer equipment";. Thcle, he verily be
lieved, could not be had. If the citizens, even
tboi'e who would think lightly of the burthen,
could not procure thole accoutrements, the
law must be violated. Congress, he hoped,
would uot force his well inclined fellow citi
zens to violate the law—but if the law could
„ot polfibly be executed because impraaica
b e the legislature would be answerable for
the'indignities it brought upon itfelf, t>) thus
nrefcribms unneccffary hardftiips. .It was
then to Ihield Copgrefs and the dignity of ie
gillation from the lharne of imposing impollible
obligations, as well as to redress the citizen,
that he wilhed the claule altered.—Several
modes presented thernfelves—The most obvi
ous is, the furnilhing of the arms at the pub
iic expence—and another is, the furnilliing
of the arnrs to fuclr as might in the opinion of
certain officers be too poor conveniently to
find tliem. Congress might leave it with ei
ther the officers of the militia, or with tne
deputy marffials. The disposition once felt
to relieve, would prelentlydefignate its mode
of accolnpliffiing redrels. Fines too would
prove a perpetually accumulating fund,which
could in a few years either be applied to the
further purchase of arms, and further exone
ration of the poorer class, who might rot fall
within the idea of the most rigid poverty —or,
to a reimburleir.ent of the public for the arms
firft purchased. At all events, it could do no
liarin to hear what a committee could report
en this fuhjefl—and when the house reflected
that this was the wifli of a populous diftria,
and he verily believed ,of the whole state of
Maryland, he did not doubt of at least.a sober
regard to f'uch claims. A matter of great
importance it certainly was, that as far is
confident with the good of the whole, the
interests and wiflies of a part (hould be at
tended to—in this cafe, his constituents ar
gued from impartial views or local motives,
but from the fundamental principles of pro
perty & taxation,equally applicable to allwho
thought thernfelves aggrieved. He was con
vinced the clause in question was as imprac
ticable as it was oppreflive, and he hoped to
have a committee appointed. He felt, that
whatever might be the event, he had dis
charged the dutj he owed his fellow citizens,
and obeyed his own opinions.
Mr. Williamfon strongly reprobated the
idea of making the arming of the militia
a public expence, as involving a most un
equal and oppreflive species of taxation,
tfpecially as it is conceded that more
than one hnlf of the militia are already
armed.
Mr. Kittera said he was opposed to the
nwioa; by a calculation which he offered,
he said the expence of arming the militia
« the public charge would amount to 42
millions i.f dollars, rating the expence at
£.10 per man, according to the estimate
of a gentleman from Maryland.—He re
probated the idea of making any alterati -
on in thelaw bfcfoie any experience of its
effects had taken place.
Mr. Mercer supported the estimate he
had made of the individual experice ; and
if it amounted said he, as the gentleman
from Pennsylvania has said, to 42 millions
of dollars, was the expence leflened by its
being imposed in the most unequal aui
oppreflive manner ? He said he never had
any idea of the goveinments incurring
fucli an expenge~he had no conception
of the policy of a militia amounting to
750,000 men- he never wished to fee a
militia which should exceed thirty thou
sand ; the plan of armirg such an immense
niafa of militia .was, in his opinion, the
molt gbfurd idea that could be imagined,
and Stnoiwted to a relinquifhmeuc of all
hope of an cffkient'militia.
Mr. Page was opposed to the motion,
It objected panitulai-ly to Mr. Mercer's
idea of arming so small a part of t|\e mi
litia, andpointed outthe
would naturally take place in consequence
of different principles being adopted in
refpedi to the arming the militia. He
remarked that the difficulties which had
presented themselves in the former difcuf
iion of this butinefs 110'vv occurred in full
01ce , and would involve the house in all
ptiplexities which had he; ttofore at
tended the buiinefs.
Mr. Dayton made a few remarks on the
motion—ne was opposed to it—and reprobated
in strong terms any plan of'arming tie mili
tia. >vhicli fiionkl give either t\ estate or ge
neral government a right to dispossess them
tr.e'ir arms on' any oecafion.
M l '- Murray added some further re
marksy and then the question was deter
mined in the negative-*— ayes 6 ; noes 50.
The ayes and roes' being as follow,
A Y H^S.
Mclfr*. B. Bcurn, Key, Mirccr, Murray,
Suropttr, Wiilisr ——6.
N O E S,
-i*fx 1 5. Aim f. h fh<, Bi'lo v. n. R; in well, Bcn
for>, h bourn. Clrfik, Dayton. Fifzfimons, Gerry,
(•nfs, G'ur.iin, (-odrihuc, G< don, Gr cnup,
g,, ®T, C»i-ac, Hartley, Hc.iUr, Hillhoufe,
Hiitirr KiuVitJ], Kilter?., Lavisnce, Learned,
lui d, I.ivcrmore, Macon, MadHon,
A-'Ocic. 2vj..i,Um ijg, Kilca,Qii, ?age f Paiker,
Schoonmakrr, Sedgwick, J. Smith, W. Smith,
J. Stctlf, Slurbs, Sylvtita, Thatcher, Trui!-
v.-t'll, Tucker, Vcuablc, Waid, White, Wil
ha 111 lon ,50.
Mr. Sedgwick presented the petition
of John Smith, read and refer red.
The petition of Thomas and Edward
Faulkner, was read and referred to the
secretary of war.
Mr. Muhlenberg ptefented a petition
from the dealers inpainters oil and colours
praying that the duties on dt y paints may
be reduced so as to afford due encourage
ment to the vinding and preparing co
lours yi the •united states.
The motion for a committee to report
a bankrupt law was called up by Mr.
Boudinot, and a committee appointed
consisting of Meflrs. W. Smith, Boudinot
Lawrance, White and Gerry.
The house then took into consideration
the resolutions of the committee of the
whole on the Prefideiit's speech,—The
firft and fccond resolutions were agreed to.
Mr. Parker moved to strike out the
latter clause of the third resolution, re
fpeding the reference to the Secretary of
the Treasury. On this motion the de
bate was renewed ; Mr. Page, Mr. Tuc
ker, Mr. Findley, Mr. Giles, and Mr.
Madison supported it.
Mr. Gejry, Mr. Lawrance, Mr.Liver
more, and Mr. Ames were in opposition:
the observations, though similar to those
made in the committee, were more ex
tensive. The question was at length ta
ken, and pafied in the negative, the ayes
and noes being as follow :
AYES.
McfTrf. Afh<", Baldwin, Clank, Findley, Giles,
Greenup, Griffin, Grove, Heiftrr, Lee, Macon,
Madison, Mercer, Mooie, Niies, Orr, Page,
Parker, Scboonrnakei, Sumpter, Tread well,
Tuckcr, Venable, White, Willis 25.
Adjourned.
NOES.
MefTrs. Ames, Barnwell, Bcnfon, Bouriinot,
S. Bourn, 13. Bourn, Dayton, Fitzfimons, Gerry,
Oilman, Goocihue, Gordon, Hartley, Hilihoufe,
Huger, Jacobs, Kttchell, Kitlera.
Learned, Leonard, Liveimorc, Muhlenberg,
Murray, Sedgwick, J. Smith, W. Smith, Steele,
Sturges; SylvePter, Thatcher, Ward 32.
Thursday, November 22.
John Milledge, Esq. a new member from the
state of Georgia appeared, produced his creden
tials, was qualified and took his feat.
The house proceeded in the consideration of
she refolutitns of the commits of tb«? wh<\le on
the President's fpeech.—Tlie lall refclution was
for a reference to the Secretary of the Trealury,
dirediing him to report a plan for reimbur finjj
a loan mads of the bank of the U. S.—thi» re
solution wSs agresd to by the house.
Mr. Parker, Mr. Heiiler, and Mr. Macon
were appointed a committee to report a bill pur
suant to the resolution that provision ought
to be made by law, for the widows and orphans
of the persons who were killed while acSing
under the prcte&ion of flags of true# to the In
dian tribes.
Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Dayton, and Mr. Learn
ed were appeinted a committee on the resolu
tion-—that prnvifion ought to be made to sup
port the intercourlc of the united states with fo
reign nations.
In comif.ittse of the whole on the bill provid
ing for the registering and recording- of Ihips or
vessels. Mr. I.iwranecin the chair. The bill
was considered by paragraphs.
The committee went through tlie discussion,
and reported the bill to the house without any
amendment.
A mefiage waj received from the Proficient of
the united ftf.tes by Mr. Secretary Lear, com
municating the abftradt of a fupplcrr.cutary ar
rangement made by him for carryinginto execu
tion the law for collecting duties impofcd oil
spirits distilled from foreign and doineftic mate
rials within the united states.
An account of the lubdivifions of the furveyi,
together with an eftiniate of the amount of the
conipenfationi and charges attending the collec
tion of the afoufaid revenue; the amount of
these was about 45,000 dollars.
Thin meflage being read, it was ordered, that
100 copies be printed for the use of the house.
The report of the Secretaiy of the Treasury
j-elativeto the requisite appropriations waj re
ferred to a committee of tke whole house on
Monday next.
In committee of the whole on thß report of
the Secretary of the Treafiiry on the petition of
Joseph Headerfon.
Mr- Lawrance in the chair.
The report was read, and a refolction mo
ved pursuant thereto. Mr. Ames Hated the
rcifons on wlii, h the prayer of the petition was
founded.
Mr. B. Bourn obfcived, that the report was
not so explicit as to enable the cemmittee of the
■whole to form a competent judgment of the
merits of the cafe—he moved that the commit
tee of the whole should be discharged, and that
the report be rt ferrca to a fele& committee--
this motion obtained, and the report was accor
dingly referred to a leleift committee confiding
of Messrs. Ames, B. Bourn and Clark.
Mr. Ames moved that a committee be ap
pointed to bring in a bill, granting to thetom
millioners for treating with the iouthern Indi
ans dollars for their extra expellees in
going to, and returning from the place of trea
ty —This motion was agreed to, and a commit
tee appointed confifling of Mefirs. Ames, X uck
er, ana Smith of N. H.
203
A letter was read from the secretary of the
trealury enclosing reports on a larire number of
petitions referred to him the lall session. These
petitions Were read and occupied the remainder
time till the adjournment.
FRIDAY, Nov.
Ajbil'to reimburse certain extra experfes
.* ''ommitiioneis ior treating of peace
with the Creek Indians—was reud t ! :t lirft
time.
Mr. \Villiamfon presented the petition of
lundry inhabitants oi Tarborough, Wafiiing
ton, &c. in North Carolina, praying an alter
ation in the route of the post through pait of
tnat Hate—read, ar.d referred to the commit
tee on the poft-olhce law.
In committee of the whole on the bill re
ceived from the Senate, reflating foreign
coins, and for other purposes.—Mr. Sedgwick
in tiie chair.
Tin bill was read by the clerk, and then
conf.dered in paragraphs.
The committee agreed to sundry amend
merits, rose and reported progress.
A petition, prelented by Col. Afhe, praying
the renewal of certain loft certificates—-was
read & referred to the committee on loft cer
tificates. Adjourned till Monday.
NEW-YOKK, Nov. 21.
F-kt!ors of Prtjident and Vice-Prefidcnt.
William Floyd, Esq. of Suffolk county ; Sa
muel Ofgood, Esq. of the city and county of
New-Yoflk; Edward Savage, Esq. of Walh
ington county; Stephen Ward, Esq. of Weli
chefter county; John Bay, Esq. of Columbia
county ; Jefi'e Woodhull, Esq. of Orange c»un
ty ; David Van Ness, Esq. ofDutchefs coun
ty; Johannes Bruyn, Efq- ofUlfter county;
Volktrt Veeder, Esq. of Montgomery coun
ij ; Abraham Yates, jun. Esq. of the city and
county of Albany; Samuel Clarke, Ei'q. of Sa
ratoga county ; and Abraham Ten Eyck, Efq
of Renfellaer county.
Philadelphia, Nov. 24.
The Governor of this commonwealth has
iflued a proclamation, declaring that William
Henry, Joseph Heifter, Thomas M'Kean,
Henry Miller, John Wilkins, jun. Robert
Coleman, Thomas Bull, Cornelius Coxe, Ro
bert Johnfton, John Boyd, David Stewart,
George Latimer, Hugh Lloyd, James Morris,
and Robert Hare, are duly elected and chosen
electors of a President and Vice-President of
the United States, to serve at the election in
that behalf to be held, at Harrifburgb, in the
county of Dauphin, on the firfl Wednesday of
December next, agreeably to the ast of Con
gress, and the ast of the General Alfembly of
this commonwealth, in such cafe made and
provided.
By ths latest accouHts from Georgia, re
ceived from Mr. Seagrove, Agent for Indian
affairs in the southern department, it appears
that the Chiefs of the Creek nation are not
unfriendly to any part of the United States—
On the contrary, Mr. Seagrove fays he has
reason to tiiink it is the wifli of nine tenths
of that nation to be in ft rift friend fliip with
11 's. And all danger of an interruption of the
harmony, arises from the reiblefs and vicious
disposition of feme of the white people among
us.
His Sxcellcncy Thomas Sim Lee, is una
nimously re-elected Governor of Maryland,
Lord Macart.ie;' failed from Kpithead the
26th September lull, in the Ihip Lion, of 64
guns, Sir Erafinus Gore, commander, on the
long intended er.iba3y to the Empeioi of
China.
On the 10th inft. John Trotter, ferjeant in
Capt- Faulkner's company of riflemen, was
(hot at Pit I (burgh for desertion.
The Ne«-E»unfwick Church Lottery fin
idiei! d: a« i r;/ Is.; 1 Saturday ; a lift of the
blanks has not been received.
COMMU NICATIONS,
The accusation against the Vice-President
shews a ilifpofuioi; to make him appear un
worthy of the office he now holds, as well as
of the confidence and refpeft of His fellow
citizens which he has long held; —It is no
small compliment paid him by his enemies,
that they can find nothing against lii;n but his
opinions. . His life is unbleutiihed; Ms cou
dodt manly and Gncerc —he has not, lixe most
popularity seekers, hid himftlf from his coun
trymen-n-A cunning ambitious man ir.lteaa
of broaching nnoopularlenumriits won! J have
locked them up in his own bufoin, and have
kept them tlieie till policy would give thein
vent, and that would not lie till the people
were'difjpofed to receive them. Mr. Adams
may not have afled with policy by turning
author But believing his fentiir.ents well
founded.and very important to his country,
he has not heiitated to avow them. Admit
(ftey aiv »»ong—and Iris adversaries trouble
themfclves tefs to prove that they are wroiijr
than that they are unpopular, still it is plain
that he believes thc-m right—for it is not to
be supposed he would raifc a clamour against
himfeif if he did not believe them.—His con
duct is therefore ihat of a patriot; let them
fay in welcome, >a mift'aken patriot. The
men who condemn his errors ought to do jus
tice to his virtue and sincerity.—Examples of
liich manly firmnels and zealous preference of
what lie deems truth to popularity will not be
very frequent —Even-the befi. men will clitife
to enjov their own opinions in peace and qoi
etnels, and they will rarely cxpofe tl emfelves
to perfuafioa by exposing them —It ought to
be remembered, that his bock fias been
lilhed these eight years; bis ientiments did
not prevent his being appointed Vice-trefi
fident on the firft ele<slion. It wa# then ard
is still well known that he is a tho
s ough and zcaloufly attached to our
present linppy constitution. In his writing!
quoted by his adversaries, he calls it our only
hope and the ail- of our fafety. It is not fay-
:ucn that a man who has devoted l*s
■jJ.', to
talents and a great pa
.! and fucceis to the
common
country, and wl.o, hi* very enemies fay, has
scorned to deceive it>; nHe?(t itclerves it; con-
fideiice.
While certain clamourers accuse Congress
ot having created a monied influence, a>.d in
orde rto make t'nat Influence the tnoic exttrn
f»ve and mischievous have incorpt rated a na;
tional Bank, the Governor of ?>lallachufetts
goes so far as to recommend to the Legisla
ture of that State to become interested in a
Bank instituted by Law at Bolton ; He* thinks
it would be for the advantage of tie citizens.
The United States actually enjoy one fifth of
the profit of the National Bank. Our fault
finders are requested to compare the opinion
of the Governor of Mairachuletts with
charges against Congress.
Wanted, a set of second hand grievances
and complaints again ft men and measures.—
It is supposed that they have become worn
and thunib'd over during the late elections,
but they will do for every day use ; half price
will be given for them at the Office in
Street. Quete, whether is is not as proper
to save grievances as rags ? They will do a
second time in another lhape. N. B. Their
being a little foul will l>e no objection.
Some persons make a fnfs about republican
principles ; It is admitted that none are
more excelient or more ti ue ; yet are the
men who give as a toast the republican inter,
eft in the United States, meaning the antile
deral iritereft, really republican! Turn this
cant into plain Englilh, and what does it a
mountto? Draw a small party clofeiy toge
ther, and by art, induflry, and lies, obftruft
the laws of the peopie. Is he a republican
who would have drawn the sword to put the
state of New-York out of the union? Yet, the
man who was so violent that his party Ihrunk
from his flandard, when he was willing and
ready to erect it against the people of the
United States, and their free constitution, is
now held up as the pure republican, the man
of the people —Actions speak louder than
words.
L O N D O N, September 25.
The old conlliturion of Kranc e »
in one thing, and we believe in th at
(in»le point, is superior even to th's
happy country. By the law, every
person who has ever had ten chil
dren in lawful wedlock, whether
they are alive or not, is exempted
from taxes, —a law worthy jo be in
ferred in our llatutes.
The decree which enjoins, that
the refradtory piiefts {hall receive
no passports for any country actually
at war with France, will now force
them to pass into England ; for in
ten days fiom this date, France is
likely to be engaged in hoftflitics
with every power that is near them.
Several hundreds of French priefls
and nobles have arrived at Jersey
within this fortnight ; some of them
are reduced to that degree of pover
ty, that they are obliged to teach
French and Belles letters at fix sous
a leflon, and others are forced to
hire themselves as gardeners.
Dotflor Priestley has declined the
office of fitting in the National Con
vention of France, though he has
been chosen for three places.
The hall, now occupied by the
National Convention of France, is
on the firfl floor of the Thuilleries,
and was once intended for a Thea
tre, at tlie fpfdtacles of which the
court only were to be present. Ihe
old decorations of the palace have
been removed, and ordered to be
fold.
TO COR X KSI'ONDENTS.
Want o/'time and rooin prevent, the repub
lication cf " I.\cius," containing extrads from
Mr. Abams's l):jc«cc-alfo the extrads Jrom til
fame work by M a r c v s.
" Antonius and MutiuS," in our next.
SHIP NEWS,
the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Schooner Hercules, Chadwick, N. Caroling
price oj Stacks as in tur la]}.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Phi l adelthi a, November 20, 179 a.
r T" , HE Stockholders of the Baok of the United
X Slates are hereby informed, that aecording
to the Ifaiute ol in .or poration, a general clesioa
foriwenty-fiveD icfl is willbeheM at the Bank
of the Unind Statu, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday ihc seventh day of January next, at
ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh fcQion of the
Bye-Laws, 1 lie Stockholders iif the said Bartkai*
hereby notified to aflemble in general meeting
at the f»me place, on Tuelday the eolith day of
January uext, at five o'clock in the evening.
By «*<i" of lhc Pretident and Diyrflorl,
JOHN KEAN, CaO»i«r.
•vice of't ROM A LA IE HALIFAX PAPER.
AN APPEAL,
FROM THE LEGS TO THE HE .-ID
For a equ.il participation of
RIGHTS and PRIVILEGES.
Sbtz" th,
»T»HA 1* the tegs coining into the
Jl world at the fame lime, and
often lejore th. head, the latter can
not in point ol 'urth claim avy great
er privilege than the former.
I hat the legs have been always
of the utmost importance and utili
ty to the head, conducting it to and
from all places of business, profit
and pleasure, and were the fir ft
why raised it to its present exalted
flat ion.
That ill armies the legs have been
occasionally found a grand fpecific
again It gun-fliot wouuds, bruises,
dislocations, aud even death itfelf,
by running a'cociy with the head to a
pi act of fajety ; witness, a late great
example, where the legs by the won
derful andalmoft unprecedented pow
ers of their Jwiftnifs, laved little (hort
of fotir thtufaud ntagnaaim'.ns j>ee
lorn Frenchmen.
That in many particular classes of
life, the legs actually and bona fid:
support the head altogether, as in
couriers, chairtmn, running- footmen,
danciHg-majlers, corii-cuttsrs, pe/iny
ftflmen, and ripe-dancers.
That in eonlequence of these, and
many other similar benefits of which
they are to the bead. They con
ceive ihey ought no longer to fub
jnit to those bale offices which are
aligned them.
That it is an hardship, an injus
tice, and a degree of /lave ry, incom
patible with the rights and privile
ges of free-born Legs, daily to be
obliged to wade through muck and
dirt, fupporjing the while weight of the
head, who often fits up in lazy state,
curled, bedizened, and bepowdered.
That the legs are intitled to some
nobler capacity, some more eleva
ted situation.
That having nerves as well as the
head (the pretended feat of intelli
gence') their opinions ought not on
ly to be taken, and their will con
fulted, but all the arrears due to
their birth, and long services fully
and completely allowed them.
That for this purpose, and avail
ing themselves of tlie present toffy
turvty dfJTpofitUn of the world : They
demand, claim, and I nsist, that
the present pofltion of mankind
(which they have arrogantly enjoy
ed now near fix thousand years)
be instantly Ihifted, and that /li.
MEN IN IUTURE BE OBLIGED TO
STAND UPON THEIR HEADS IN
stead of thfir legs, an eleva
tion which the leg. conceive ihey
have been long since fully entitled
to by the laws of rotation, and which
they likewise conceive to be nioft
likely to. produce that equality of
Representation, which fhouid always
be prefel'ved by members of the fame
btdy.
Signed by, and in behalfof him
lelf, andthe djfociate Legs of
Great-Britain and Ireland.
April the firfi,
World turned up-fide-down.
Bandjf.-leg Walk. LEG BAIL.
Extratt front Coverntr Hancock's
Speech to both Houses of the LegiJ
lature of Massachusetts, Nov. 8.
'• T SHALL begle.ive to submit to
your attention the propriety
of the Commonwealth becoming in
teretted in the UNION BANK. I
do this, because if advantages are to
be derived from institutions of this
nature, a participation of them, bv
the State, will he for the intercfl. of
all the citizens : And becauTe, as it
is of great importance to the com
munity to have a proper regulation
oi the artificial medium current
within it, the public faiety will be
better guarded, by having the Bank
more under the eye of the Legisla
tive Power. Should you not have
time to attend to this at pi e
fent, you will judge, whether it is
expedient to appoint a committee to
consider it in the recefi.
" Gentiemf.k,
"I am urged,by a sense of duty,
to coiymunicate to you my mind up
on a trail fa&ion, which 1 cannot
but c'onfider as ?.n open in ft ipon
the Laws and tlie Government of
the Commonwealth.
11l the year one thoufnnd seven
hundred and fjf*ty, the Legiflatuie
of ihi.j t) en province of jViafiachu
fetts-Bav, pafled an act, intitled,
"/hi r'.:t to prevent Stage-Plays,
and other Theatrical Entertain
ments." The acft was temporary,
and only for four years. Perhaps
the iniprobability of obtaining the
Royal A lie lit lo a permanent prohi
bition of luch entertainments, was
the reason which induced the Legis
lature to condu(st the business in
this manner. The aift was contin
ued from time to time, by fubfe
qtient acts ; and oil the lecond day
of July, in the year 178s, » was >
an ACt of the Legiflatuie of the
Commonwealth, continued in force
until tilt? year 1797
The preamble of the A<ft is in
these words, " For preventing and
avoiding many great mifchiefs,
wlijch ai ife from public Stage- Plays,
Interludes, and other Theatrical
Entertainments ; which not only
occalion great and unneceflary ex
pences, and discourage industry and
frugality ; but likewise tend gene
taliy to increase immorality, impie
ty, and a contempt of religion."
Whether the apprehension of the
evils which might flow from Thea
trical Exhibitions, so fully exprefled
in the preamble of that ast, are well
founded or not, may be a proper
fubjedl of legislative disquisition on
a motion for the continuance or the
repeal of the law ; but the atft is
now a law of the Commonwealth ;
the piinciples upon which it is pre
dicated, have been recognized by,
and derive support from the consi
deration of several Legislatures ;
and surely it-ought to claim the ref
pe«fi aud obedience of all persons
who live or happen to be, within
the Commonwealth. Yet a number
of aliens and foreigners, have late
ly entered she State, and in the me
tropolis of the Government, under
advertisements insulting to the ha
bits and education of the citizens,
have been pleased to invite tfcera to,
and to exhibit before fucli ax at
tended, Stage-Plays, Interludes, and
Theatrical Entertainments, under the
stile and appellation of " Moral
Lectures."—This fact is so notori
ous, that it is in vain to attempt a
concealment of its coming to our
knowledge."
To the Public.
THE fubfcribc begs leave to acquaint fhc pub
lie in general, and his cuftomeis in particu
lar, that he has entered into partnerftitp with
Mr. HENRY KAMMERER, and that thp Print
ing business in the EngliOl and German lanßiiage>
is now carried on under the fiun of SYEINEP
and KAMMERER, No. 85, in Race-fliett, be
tween Second and Third-fir eels.
The German Newspaper will be pub lifted b\
them, as usual, on Tuesdays, and all kind of Print
ing work done with care and expedition.
MELCHIOR STEIVER.
Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 1792.
TO BE SOLD,
A Plantation,
LYING »n the river Delaware, miles above
Trenton, containing 165 acres; whereon is.
a ri we\ling-houfe, pleasantly situated, 36 by £4 feet,
having three rooms with fire-places on the lower
floor, and four above, one of them with a fire
place ; a kitchen adjoining, near to which is a re
markable large fpiing of excellent water, accom
modated with a good spring-house ; a bain 36 feet
by 26; a waggon, chair and smoke-houses, be fide?
.othei ufetul out-buildings ; a large orchard, chiefly
of grafted fruit. The iarm is well watered, and
has a proportion of wood and meadow land, thro'
which the load runs that is known by the name
ol the River Road.
On the Prcmifii is also erefl. d,
A Grift-Mill,
In the midil of a good wheat country, on a never
failing ft ream ; the mill-lioitfe is 54 by 24 f Pct>
has one uater-whcel, a pair of buns an;i a pair o!
Cologne Hones, rolling fcrecn, boJts for merchant
and Country work.&c. and is accommodated with
a cooper's (hop, 18 feet square, near the mii!
which is about 300 yards from the Delaware, and
very convenient.y fitnated to receivc wheal, &c.
from boats pafling down the river.
There arc also for Sale,
20 Acres of Wood-Land,
within left than a quarter of a mile of the above
men;!. .Ned Plantation, which lies in a fine high
hei'thy country.—For terms apply to the fub
icriber on ihe premises.
7 'cntov, Ociobcr, 1792
(PT The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars b,r
annum—One ka/J to be f»id at the time tjfubjinbhg.
204
GEOGRAPHY.
Refpefifuliy submit* to th« Citiatns of the United
States, the following
FOR PUBLISHING BY SVBSCU IPT IO N ,
An AMERICAS EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVtD.
* Of which these are the terms:
1. TT fhall'be publiihcd in 48 weekly num&rs,
X each containing ihtee (heels,*>r twem Vrtour
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed wiSnew
tyoes on line papei.
11. In the couife of the work will bedelivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame file as thofc
in the European editions, viz. most of them Ihcei
maps on post paper.
ftTT Be fides tilt maps in the Britijh editions, this
work zi'i/l contain naps 0) as many of the United Stales
as can be readily procured, executed by the bejl engrav
ers in the United States.
111. The price of each number will be a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery. (£3* Nt ad
vance required.
IV. The work will be put to press as [0011 as
700 copies are fubfenbed for.
V. Sublcribers who disapprove of the work, on
the publication of the three firft numbers, are to
be at liberty to return thein, and shall have their
money repaid.
VI. The fubferibers' names fhlll be prcf:xcd as
patrons of the undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertaining
and ufeful than geography- It reveals the difco
verics of travellers —the remarkable cunofities of
all countries, in nature and art—the fnuaiion of
provinces, cities, towns, villages, rivers, &. moun
tains—in fine,the hiftoi y, manners, customs, laws,
forces, revenues, and government of different na-
:ions.
It is an old observation, that " there is not a
son or daughter of Adam, but has feme concern
with geography and that a knowledge of this
science is indifpcnfable towards the study of his
tory with advantage or fatijfaftion. Indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannot discourse on the
most common newspaper topics of the day without
betraying his ignorance.
So much for geography generally. With re
fpeft to the present plan, let it fuffice to lemark,
that Guthrie's Geography has been long acknow
ledged to be the bell in the English language :
however, the account of .America in it has, from
obvious reasons, been very erroneous and defec
tive. The errors of former editions will be cor
rected. and the defe£U fuppiied, by gentlemen of
abilities, who have engaged to fupenntend this
undertaking, and to avail themlelves of all the in
formation that can be procured, to render it the
mod complete edition extant.
The Printer earnestly solicits the support of his
fellow-citizens throughout the United States : and
as no deposit is required, and every iubferiber will
be at liber:y to withdraw hi.i name, if, on trial,
he fnould disapprove of the work, he hopes the
friends of science, and of Arneiican arts and rra
nuf?6lures, will cheerfully and early patronize this
ufefnl work, thegreateit and mod expensive, pro
bably, ever yet vttempfed in America,*in thetypo
gtaph cal line, the Encyclopaedia excepted.
Philadelphia, Nov. 2, 1792.
Grand Familyßible.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
An FLhA/iNT EDITION of the
SACRED SCRIPTURES
Of the OLD and NEW TESTAMENTS, with the
On a very large and beantijul new Typc % tndfuferjine
THE great importance of the Holy Scriptures,
•ntereftir.g to every individual ; the divine excel
lence of its do&rines and precepts, and the beauty
and sublimity of its pafliges, have so long made it
a capital object of attention, as to preclude occa
sion or opportunity for eulogium.
The »nety or '■nerppze of individual* has pr<"-
fenicd this invaluable book to the public in a va
riety of forms ; in some editions it has been highly
embellifhcd with fupcrb engravings, which have
greatly enhanced its price; in others it has been
accompanied with voluminous corrimerkaries,
which necefiarily encreafcd thefize; while a va
riety of plain cheap copies have generally diffufed
the knowledge of the Scripture, and made the
ourchafe easy to every class.
Without withing in the smallest degree to lefft n'
the merits o\ the various editions, whether plain
or ornamented, which the publ c are already in
poflellion of, i: is pertinent to remark, that very
many readers of ta'ftc and judgment have expressed
a wish for a Family B-.ble unencumbered with ad
ditions. There still appears room for another
edition on a beautiful new type, superior in fiae
and elegancc to any bible that has yet been printed
in the language, and which, leaving the
adventiiious circumstances of ornament or com
ment, may exhibit the Oracles of God in their na
tive limplicity.
5 1f And God said,
d Let there be light: and
there was light.
With refpc&ful fubmifli.m to the judgment and
candour of the public, the following proposals are
offered :
I. The work shall be printed with the greatrfl
fidelity and attention to corre&nefs both in the
text and marginal references, on a fuperfine Paper
made on r >urpofe, with an elegant new Type call
for the work of the size of the above Specimen.
11. The work will be cornprifed m fwrotv
number?, making two elegant volumes in Foiio :
to be furn:fhed to fubfciibers at one dollar each
number. To prevent any complaints of want oi
pun&uality, no part of the work wll be delivered
unless paid for.
JOHX MOTT.
(iaw4t)
111. The firft number, containiing sixty folic
P a o c *> elegantly printed, will be iurnifhed on the
Mathew Carey
PROPOSALS
Apoc r y ph a,
Paper,
SPECIMEN OF THE TYPE
ird Sa!ur<^a v of July next, when fubferibers Mrt
o pay tne price of the fiift and second numbers..
...d the pi ice of one number to be always in aa
.ance till ibe work is completed. The subsequent
numbers to be publiflied regularly on the firlt Sa
tin dav of each fucceedmg month, till the whole
is finifhrd.
§3"* Subscriptions will be received in Philadel
phia by he Publither», Thomas Dobson, No. 41,
South Second-ft 1 ect, and John Parker, No. 25c'
N'orth Second-Areet ; and b\ allih. Bookfcllers :
in Charleflon, by William P. Young; Richmond
by Atcnibald Curne ; Baltimore, by Jamej Ricc ;
Wilmington, by P. ter Bf ynberg ; New-York, by
I nomas Allen ; New-Haven, bv Isaac Beers;
Providence, (K. I.) by William Wilkinfon; Sal
I em, by TWoinas Culhing ; Kolton, by David
Weft, Benjamin Guild, and Thomas, & Andrew*.
BOOKS,
Pitt N T ID AMD SOLD BY
M A T H E W CARE Y,
A'o. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
l * J\ MUSEUM,fiom its commfnce^
/ Jl menr in January 1787, to June 1792, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bouuci and lettered,
ieventeen dollars ana three filths.
This work, wh;ch is now conduced on an im
proved plan, containing the best pieces published
| tor and against the proceedings of governreent
i will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and miscellaneous effavs
as any ever pubiifhed in America. Perhaps in no
one work are lo many valuable documents refpeft
mg the hi (lory of this country, colle&ed together.
His Excellency the Prefidentof the United States,
has declared of it, that u 1 more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement."
| The fubfeription is two dollars and a half per
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wish to
be fupplicd with this work, are requested to give
c ommiflion to friends in the city to fubferibe for
receive it- Any of the back number*
may ad in order to complete sets.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on Nurt
;ng and the management of Children.
il We recommend theft letters to the perusal of
those to whom they are particularly addressed."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101 — Price, bound,
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s centi,
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—
6. Ladies' Pocket LVirary, containing Mifi
More*!Eflays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioncfs of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady,Mrs.Cha
pone on command ot Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's Hiflory of New-York. Piiceadol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tic, l. l.d. profefibr of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewer* (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : "We
have fcen nothing on these fubje£ls more plain,
tnore T>erfpicuous, or more generally ufefuJ."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univerhty in Phi
ladelphia.
9» Beauties of Poeiry. Price four-filths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's c ermons. Price two dollars.
11. N< cker's Treanfe on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
(lawtf)
12. Exanvnation of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 8. hs of a dollar.
13. The Conllitutionsof tbc fcveral United States,
with the Federal Constitution, See. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Pricethree-cighths of a dollar.
15. American Jcft Book. Price threc-fifthl of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the S<>ul. Price half a dollar.
The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—Price, elegantly bound letter
ed, 50/2— plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecuni—Price ft
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on'r. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Christian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. HiHory of Charles Grandilon, abridged-
Price a (ix»b of p dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys-«-Price a third
of a dollar.
23. Sele£l Poems, chiefly American—Pricet
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, 3 large assortment of
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the roost leafonahle
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being fupplicd ia
the most fatisiactorv manner, A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries
or to (ell ag.iin.
ADVERTISEMENT.
This Gazette is puili/heJ in North Fifth-Sl'tet,
No. 34, between High ar.d Mulberry Streets uhert
the Editor now resides.
A LARGE CELLAR TO LET,
Sufficiently capacious to Jlore Jeveral hundred ban t .
Enquire as above.
Stock Brokers Office,
■ N0.45i Oreat Dock-ilreet, New-Ycrk,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE or
STOCKS .0n COMMISSION, Bcg.teave 10ofler
his fervicesto his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to la
vor hiin with their buftnefs, may depend upon
having it tranfafled with the utmost fidelity »i">
difpatcb,
O drrs from Philadrlphia.Roflpn. rrany othri
part ut the United States will be ftrifllyMtw
ed to.
Ma\ 2
plans
City of Washington,
So'd bv the Booksellers,
Z>OZSON, LARLY, i OUJfG, (2 L/U hiJiASA-
•-50 cents.
LEONARD BLEECKER
(i.f.)
OF THE