(StizdU
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISH*!) AND -SATURDAYS BY JOHN F£NM, No. 69, HIG H-SIAiU, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 43, of Vol. IV.]
FOR TllE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATE?.
THE REPUBLICAN.—No. V..
THE friends of good order maintain that no
thing buL,a£taal op pi rtjjcm will f>wke 2 go
vernment. Befieviog tfot power in the hands of
the'people themselves, cxercit'ed by t'WiY. respon
sible feivama,- will nevefr farbifly just occafm 1 for
its Q\vp lub*fer&q»V they: crtttfider our pt>vittcaj <J*>n»
' dition as faf;ly founded on 4 rs>tk. i'-bf-y Mgb
at the malice of those whom tn*y fee employed to
undermine ir.. They fu&r t tlff r.i to fcat-ter lies
among tfrd people; witifour irking the pains to
..expotfe 4 hem. rt that zfc tto«i imposed
by Ctf ng, r ets are li 2j t thieadva jU 3 a e s s ps ucj 11 tff d
by :he new ce'ri(tit«it:cri ire :;iCi <'r,d iqct \mi", j
ik) rreaTh'avm -wilFbe cforte. Tfie Ibrcc ofths'ngs,
fhey Cay, will overpower ar.d'conloifnd'thepro
fl'tgut 'arts, and pun y.f ogevp{ » he enemies <»f the
people. Accordingly, we dee thai the beiihnends
61 the new conliilulion have lit,come
States "Tnattebtive to the
bale methods which ill adW»ftriW are irtduftri
outiv u(in<g -to. bring ir uhey
have 11.-01 too long, if the principle on which they
rfrfi hope s'of national fec'nt it yhe found 10 its
application to our cireumfla'nccs in the lead qucf
ironable.
w It u?ay; he liMf that i/> every, other conntYy the
feeing of oppjcflion only can rouse the multitude
ko reliftanee. It rulers will Jceep within joy to
lerable bound's, tranquillity may be maintained
jW®it>li<k(b aiv« ry bad tyftem. No man on rt-flec
tivn \fyijlfay." nhitihe lame rcmatk.is applicable
Anjerican nation. Lcfs governed by their
ngs, i) 0 more capable or 'eafmtng, they are
bv rhe forefront, 61 evil's as an/
bner.people Have been,bv *#unlly ft>fferin£ them,
[si; hot to make themjtel oppreflkm,
i( fnyu < :jmake the»n f,ear the^eftgn*of jjieii
ix ;, .e them to level the be ft ce
sflwhtfWft te.tt ur* with he dull. ' ' "
Ir is in vain to fay that » rear'rrni'rtg pfopTe are
|W. *45 k tf*4r Mrtjrftrt dcjftruflive errors. n ! The' rea| |
/w\in^t3 c nrir -iis,%eil state, not
even u hoj exo( \ f A on J'uVjt £ts the, mo ft: fufuep-
vt'f ff. hnyv grofslv an indwi
tdiifct uiNTt'jfts hnd dUtVrt', wFn?n
he (uywnntrt bi( trri facult^es and applirs all h?s in
dtiUi/y che invfUjgW'twi oi thi/iii. )IV natron is
infinitelv more txpofeH to dpU«Con.
The want Of Imny of Views',' 'he want of proofs,'
ar»d 4he < inline .-<• ix.im'nc 2nd weigh
them, nif IheAv could' he come as, Tender ine
filfl.AorxCfjftjpiirftf uojlit-Mffl. jtri|tb ejDtceilitigly
etuae. £xperierire in'iecd comrj and puts its
seal up6n otji'ilicms and event's-—Bnt it -is a kind cf
after-thoiight—it Ihews theTcari of those vyaund
>tfhixrh ;poptd>r frenty has made deep, and its ve -
no"m has pauiVd. ro gingrcne. The chance how
ever that a thinking nation will npt tun mad, is
nifefy favorable to liberty and order. It is a
duty which w-e owe the government, as
as a moral duty -whith we owe to min, to
multiply ai?d improve the means of education.
Our rciVclions, af":r being led into this as
Veil as our rccol'e&ion of the (ou'cs of th'-. 1 att
wir, wi'Fl convince us that a£lual opprefTion need
not be fullered 'tor cfcfpofe our people to fubvea
.thegovernment fuopofed to mediiate it. If we
regard facts merejy, probacy ol all known fvftems
of cofonial government, that of Britain was th<
toiWcft and the most truly maternal. But il wc
attend ti prinripilc«, notie wascver more Formida
ble. The ciaim of a rt|;ht to bind lit in all cases
whatfocvcr, was of all theories of d'fpotifm the
"ttn'ft indifcritt and the mod unlimited. We
ought to be proud of thf* good fefife of our people
>*}iidh did not wait for the e*ercife of Uris claim
tx> be convinccd ps its nature. But wc ihouid be !
'peijfuadcd by the fa&, that Jess than intolerafbh I
'•opprtfTion will overthrr»w a g/wfipmehti
To this reaYonfng founded on the mo»at fuperi- ;
<irrty of Americans over the greateV part of the
world, we may add the divcrfiy of our habit®.
To nations who have grown grey-uoder bad
fvftems, the very vices of their governments seem
ule is fec6nd nature, is ? proverb.
We may a!mr*ft fay it i* tnc.ii powerrtil than na-
for it controuls it. Ccntarics have paffid
lince-the theories of European governments were
framed. Some opprcitive change ( f .adminiftra
tirrn seems nect Haty to change the obedient habits
of nations. Is rhe cafe of AmWica similar? If
•we bav'c fixed 'habits,tbev arf'the habit4of change.
We have fcarccly grow n co-id in any of-onr fnftt
tutions. Our governments smell even vet ot the
hands that made them, of the yeast of tnat fadion
"which leavened the m-afs.
On these topics mu<b might l>e said. Butwith
cut dilating on them, much will be thought.
The intention of these remarks, is to convince
tht*friends of the conilitution that they repose in
a state of lalfe security. rely on a principle
which is only partially true in oOr country. It
is time for them to roufeand to oppose the wicked
arts of the enemies of the constitution with
that maql.y and watchful fpvi;t 9 which, for
the happiness and honor of otir country, pro
•curedHos adoption Men are employed to Iteal
tlvis blcflirig Ivom the people. Rumours that
ean neither L be proved nor refuted, are spread
on all fides.
Calumny on men and m lies hid, like an
afLiflin,. in bye places. Refinance to the laws is
optrily threatened tn the back parts ol Pennsylva
nia, and in one Gazette that Cpirit is most impu
denily applauded. The middle order of society,
the mm who have fomt property and families to
protect, are the mifttes ai'd keepers of the consti
tution—os the liberties of our nation. To them
it belongs to come foiward to the po'ft of duty
whicK ihcy occupicd when the ccnilitution was in
Saturday, October. 27. 1792-
4ts ptffagf. Tb* f*9*Mjrninrnt on- thciri fdr
protetbion, and in turn their iccuiity arwi that ot
tfjei'r children and p»operiy rei*s 0.1 the «? re i < .v a -
t'Of los the govfitnent. : ft'ney nfeglcft 10 fup
pojt aillMor-ty when they fee it as at preTcnt arr
liuily undermined aftd iniolenily braved, tfcfcy may
have cause/to lament llrctr fupmenels whi-p it will
be too Ut£. pcl cnen wtrc a* jflte.otive 10 hip
port.free as'bad men arc to fubvertj
it, we'might intniifi the hope of tranfmitiirig it j
as -a jj"toJouß inhr* itance to our lat eft pofterify.-—
Ai. aai&ptis, when irifttitferf, e?fiiv over-;
power iheir /oundcl): opinions,. it,, >s jieceifary tpl
bahuicjt one emotion by another, to oppose the
*ea! xjt good merf for order'aiM jjWveynmer.'t to the
'dVlefi sftlvlw of inceftdiarietf. tire former,
; qntcfnpiai'e #hjc exceil-entc of-the conftisvtinn. I
The pepple of f ranee ar? riikingall, {or o»£ of lefi,
w'oiihr— and \*hileour patriots fee in that 'mage'
of o'ir cSutnry all that cart idtfiett their b'tf"c6\iojis>
let th4#i jefolv-a t-ri witch and if •neceirafry,
to defend .it* f #orthe time -if.coming vrhenithr
evil spirit of politics will be unchained, and met)
will have to chuff whether they will prefer order,
the law and the eonflitution, 6t anarchy # c'onlufipn
and civil dtfeord.
Opi .THp UtSCQVtRY 1 OP KItA
An Option, dilivereiky Mr. ]c ftp A Rrri, of thitCuy,
at the late annivet fary Commencement held at F/riice-
W*};<Wt7hj|fejr..' * '' "" r ''\ ' , !
AT tfii eloftof .rcrntury tfie trtiitif
ly Jed.to of S:iy great
e-rcntjuthich marked its cominenccintnl. N«-
tiuns have qhofen, at fucli ; |fcri<nb, to jdifttn
guifli with peculiar grandeur, tbe commemo
ration of those event.*; from whence they fiate
•their'birth,their h.-ippindft, oi''their glory. Such'
we're the fceuJnr games' it Romfc, celebrated
hut fcttC it an hundred' years, which eihdnftid
the re/burces of art, and to whjeii ai! ttie -citi-
v P'te ofahemHlf f«m
ltlonTriff them to a .fight they ucres fecii be
fore, aiW flio'ukrWver lee again. Rut what is
the foundation of a city, thfc of
an empire, or the ceafihgofi plßjtie, compared
wi-tji $bp difcoverv ef a world ? Yet ttife have
been often celebrated, while, the yew (bventeen
hundred and 92, a year which completes the
third century fmce tbe difcqvery of Americat
pallet almtift unnoticed—a' tfirc'o'ver'v which
fUnds lor®<ndft among the works of geltim-;
whkh oncefillrd.ttie world with aftortlfhmeot,
apd mull forever command the adiniratiofloi
the phi\o!qphi,c Yet the fpirjt ofColum
bu-, V hile from his empyreal height he surveys,
the rifi'ng of this new world, fees 110
flatues ereifted, no IriftVipfrons made, no ho
nors decreed to ielebrate this great evtnt.—
Illustrious shade ! iny feeble »oice at least (hall
announce thy pxaile ; and tbis'enlightened au
dience, kindling at thy name, will iufcrihe up
■on their heart 1 the honors due to thine exalted
worth!
True tfeniiis ft a ray of divinity, Which beam
only on the tall and elevated mind.' A capaci
ty for bold and original diTcoverv reTembles th<
"power of creation ; and its polTeiror jl&fcd a
bove the re(t of mankind, approximates to tht
Deity. Such was the celebrated Columbus.—
AecuftorHed from his Voiith to adventurou
voyages he often cast an inqhifitive eye on th«
inimenfe ocean to the wefly which, for ages, hat
been deemed the impalfibie boundary of the ha
jitab'e wor.ld. Ignorance and superstition fpreac
ill their over the unknown abyh, anc
inevitable deftru&ion Teemed to await {;h€
wretch -who ftiottld venture to expWrt it. Bui
Colqmbus elevating hitafelf above the erron
and prejud : ce* of his age, and collecting th«
Scattered ravs of knowledge which fairly illir;
ruinated,the close of the 15th century,
she of unknown lands beyond tjie At
lantic, and boldjy the poflibility ol
reaching them. / Acquainted f-eJin'oui" ear lie tl
yean with the improvements in geography anc
lavigaticyi,.. it is difficult, at firft fight, to com
ire end all the greatness of this bold and ori<
rinal idea. To realize its magnitude, let u«
nark how it was received by philosophers and
cings, when CoUimbns, eager to ascertain it?
:ruth, solicited the pati on?.ge of different courts,
in Genoa, his native city, he was treated witli
ill the contempt with which wealthy jgnorance
ieards the suggestions of unpatfoni/.ed geuius.
n the more enlightened colirt of Portu;jal hi"
•Mipo'als were pronouncedtd be chimerical ami
ibfurd. In Spain we find him encountering
he prejudices.of falfe fc : ence, and w:dt:ngfive
ong years in fruitlefs attempts to ciigaten the
cho!ai;s and . ecclesiastical cou ifetlors who
domed the court of Ferdinand and Isabella.
3ut the idea was too v'aft for these philosophers
o comprehend ; and it Teemed to require a ge
lius like that of Columbus hinifelf, to addpt a
cheme To bold and uncommon* Moitified and
reappointed, lie retired from court j and that
ge was 111 danper of lollng a diTcovery at once
on.-jrab'e and advantageous. But to the honor
t' jtmile dilcernment be it told,that while eve
y male monarch regarded Columbus as art idle
d venturer, the generous ITabella dared to pa
ronize and support him. Inspired with a no
lle enthiiiiafin in his cauTe, while her narrow
ninded husband withheld his aid, Hie offered to
iledge lev jewels to equip him for the voyage,
Vomati, modest, unafTuming woman, fliares
ult'thi glory of this great difcovery—•while
169
man, pr©uri, fcientjfcc ww., ftatfds in
the prefenceinf her fupertor •
It' there be an object truly sublime in nature,
it is Cohunbus on his voyage to America ! To
nfe the language of antiquity, it is a .fight which
the Gods tftbtnielves might behold with plea-
Air#. Oil this very day, the 26th of September,
1492, he had advanced above 700 leagues weft
wafd of the Canary Ulands. There we behold
hii» in the midst of the pathlels ocean, with
three small and ill-constructed • efleh, steadily
exploring his way where never mortal had ad
ventured betfbre. Amidst: dangers sew and tin
expend, amioft appearances of nature* to a
mariner the inoft alarming, aqdifurrounded by
the terrors and fliperllitioii of his fojlowers, we
behold djifp.layinj* the most unihajcen forti
tituug ; now Toothing their fears, now 1 epref
frng their mutiny, and by pati6n.ce and fup&rior
adcfirfefs eftnbliihing that afceridency over their
minds which genius alone can acquire. But in ;
a voyage so Iqng the resources of Columbus were
at length His officers tkemfelves
were in clef pair ; and this wOjitjerful man was
perhaps the o'nTy bnt whose hopfes remained firm
and nnftiaken. Unable to teprefs any longer
the terrors oJfllls crew, he is obliged to promlfe
that if land.does not appear in thrde dayj, lie
will change his com it? and return to Europe.
I What an intere£ing period t a period which Is
' to decide lipon. his fortune and his fame forever
' —■whrch is to'ftanrp rmfoortality upon his name,
or give him back to the feoffs and wdlctite of
the world I Methinks I fee him in this foicmh
Jading upon the forecfcftle of the Santa
M ir'ia- ir is midnight—but not an eye is do
ted—not a found is neaid, lave thai of the winds
;Vvd of the' v.M o .—every look is anxioully cult
to the and dtftruft ane
painted on tae faces of his crew ; whilfe confi
dence and l ope frill animate that of Colum-
? y.'hat is t ' !at %vl,ich lie
cries 10 mptnln and points out to thole who are
near hfm? "What shout is that which bursts
from the crew of the foremoft ship ?—'Tisland
—'Tis iand 1 The .predictions of Columbus are
acconypjiihed a new woi d is found,
morning Jjght ujjfolds to their eager-eyes-the
verdant fields of Guanihnnj. On I what.a iro
ment for Columbus ! I fee tke rapture which
glows bn his ttfeek—-the tear ef joy whfen glif
ftfns in hi®eye. I-feiehlm aflfeiftidnately railing
up .hi* fi|jl<>wsrs,. who prostrate themffelvei al
his feet, overwhelmed with aftpniflunentj and
imploring his forgivenefs. I fee him gazing on
the simple native, who crowd, to the fhorc,and
wonder at the winged monflers which swim on
tlie ftitface of the deep. 1 fefc him anticipate
the aftonifinuent of Europe—the triumph of hi:
re turn—the fpjendor 1 of his reception—the ap
plaufeof-his-cotempcyjaries, and the admiratioi
of ages to come. This this fmgl<
moment, overpays him for al! his toil and dii
tress, for eight years of mortification and cor
tempt, and gives him those ftibllme ttanfpor.t
which it is the pterogative of genius to enjoy.
(To be covcludcd :n our V£*t>J. i|
FOR Till GAZETTE
, t Of 7 HE V.SITED STATES.
STRICTURES on AMERICANUS.
M R . FEN NO,
AMERICANUS (in
thinks he has found f'oinp errors, which he
has fMgmatfzc'd in my ftate
menff dl*Offi?. to. tte set; oiit with calling on
me to point out the Clause of the ast which
I the oficer an authority to enter on
the domains <ps iirdiyitiuals iearclT them,
d:c. I'an aver—-
r. T'.ir I argued from the nature of the fub
jeft, riot'from any ftututd relating to it, and of
course he ha? ito right td calf cM me Jot a sta
tute which J have no whfefc referred to or faicl
aiix tiling about t ji>ut
2cf, Notsc-itlillanding I ;*m \villjng to
comply his calif arjd refer lr.mj to a<ft of
Congttft nf Mrlrch' 3,1791, Se^fc.32 —the words
and meaning of which are very e*)/refs in caie
of concealments u in any plate whatever"—
The officers ps .infpe&ion and others are author
ized 44 to enter into all and eve>y fneb place or
places, ,y &c. and all the prov.lions (whj|ph are
to be found in the feftion jyftr quoted and in
sundry other datifes of our Jaw ) aguinft tlie
abujc oi this odious hlfultirig power of the excifip
officer, all t'nele pro villous I f4f clearly pfove
and jfupport Uie a* wfl fxijlcnce Cf that floa tr, while
at the lame time they ajlcviate but.very little
the afpe ities of its execution.
If I must meet an c*cile olricer at ipy door
with his plenary powers to enter and fearcb
everv part of my !>of»'e, I that the
warrant in -hi*; psfeketor tfle tonJiaMe at his heels,
would afford very little Ut incut compofitre to
• my harrowed feelings ; indeed I would rather
! the exciie otfjtfer would come alone than with
bii ionJfat/e ; if 1 jmuft receive intuit,! would raj
ther take it from ont than from mors, from fiu>
than from m..ny.
I -kiMw 1 firrf *elf that fucli high power*, it
«efas efhigK-nfrtiEty mbft rtlft in eve;ry go
veroaMiit, l>watft«Oglydfcjeft>to theii 1 fecinfe
made crai/nqaftr tjeing onr nitrocfelcM) Witfi
ou't to l>igh ncceffity as ntalte tbeiii
'swi««Bisw. - ;; jf.n tr i •
1 'H**ie*r of iriy Ajetticn to tbb
$0
[Whole No. 365.]
excise, gtotnried t>n the tXQinft of <Wltsi*g
u. The immense nurohet r,f officers and Im
plements which must be provided and feattered
aver eVcry part of the Union must nnavotriably
create a very enormous expense, the afhial a
mount of which, mutt in its nature be a niat
[ ter of conjectural calculation, fill a ftafsahent
I of falls can be made.—Some jiewpje in their
I calculations, t>r gueffifs, if you please, have eiti
i mated the annual expense of colleltUnof the ex-
I cife and thegrofs aitfountof the
I tafc at 400,000 (foliars, which makes the er.-
1 penfc of collection J2£ pr. cent, on the nett
I proceeds of it, and I believe thh cakuiatroo
! very moderate, betaufe Cortgrefs m thci* alt of
! May 10, 1791, limited th« whole alliance for
j this service, fothat it shall Hot exceed JQfiyy
I dollars for the time being, i. e. till a future
I law fnall be made to felter it. In the fame a£:
I it is Hated that the allowances to officers toge
ther with the incidental expenses of colle&ing
the duties ihall not exceed pr. cent, of the
total product of the duties which is Something
more thah'3 pr. cent, on the nett'proceed*; but
I conceive this is not ttef:*n<*d to iuclude all the
expenses of the ekctte,- if tins was the cafe, it
would not amount to half the fua which is pro
vided and appropriated by. Congress to that
fervice —but wtren a ltatement of facts can be
made, I fhall*be very \yefl f^tist^dHtjii';
expense of reducetj lower.tha;ijr> &x
---pet'Vcd, for I n&vtr yet 1 cared a".approaching
calamity but I was find when it
came, that it proved trot quite sb Wd zj 1 4 ap
prehended. - ' •
But what has jdl this to do
which Atne*i(anns c?hav£ef bn me l —
"I heard a calculation was made of 42
for collecting the excilc, I told it as I freaid it,
I made no imiYejSreferiiation of It, and I am not
accountaWt'ibr the tnfctli of it, nor have I any
more right to be called on to Verify, that, tfran
a tfioufaitd .-other calculations ion public, mea
sures, which ar,c made every day through all
the Statc:; ar.d tis happy that our people are
disposed to feic/i&me and calculate, for were it
not so, fcur *£tivfcVhfneht \v6uld soon lole its
principalch4ik4 and We -flioufd have biit ame
bic barntjv left frgaiofta Tory fpeefy tyranny.
3 Or. to another ehMge of
mifreprejoitation, viz. my assertion tha£.the pub
lic faith was pledged in the molt foleinn manner
to the original publfc creditors—arcL was
not this the plain fall ? or havfr mltfeprtfent
ed in the leaf}: I Ent he fays there \\iafra fi&fe
quent plighting of the piiblic faith loathe afHg
1 iees or holders of the certificates,
not be violated.
1. I a&j \Va* p&yihent ever made to the ori
ginal creditors, according to the flighted faith
of the public to tlieirf? -You itiuft Taj^'No! they
neyer received afiy thingbut depreciated paper,
worth fay one of the fym dye t;o them.
2. I alk, were the original creditoij ever
party to the certificates? You muff answer,
No! the certificates 'Wti not tbo't of when
the contrail dzs> made by the firft &iithorrty t>f
the nation with tbepuhfilc feerji
ficates were .fabricated and iinprffed on them
long lijterand without their free consent. When
a certificate was offered to them, it was that, n
t.oZhihg. St36li in. inipofition in ai?y individual,
would be deeded'liy every body imfvdcnt wpf
tictt w-eJJ ias Jhatoclijs tyetitohefs and can yeu
caJl the,4amc thiiig in a nation, an or pine,
lie jujlict tyrf national honor ?. Or can you
liich a forced trick can be deemed either pyr
vient to those creditors, or a dijchaigc of the na
tion, from their promise, or fiith folefrimy
plighted ?
so this fecoud promise or faith plight
ed to the. <*r bearers oi cojFtificate?,
which Awfucarui talks about, ii <u.ch a thinj
ever Really e'xihed, (which 1 deny) it niuft sol*
low that as far as the demands of the fpecitfa-
there must have been (wo promises
oy faiths plighted for the lame debt, and the
fame money, which he thinks can't both be paid,
and I think so too, and of [tourfe one oi them
is to be preferred, and the other iacriftced.
This naturally leads us to consider the origir
nal merits, earnings, and valuable confedera
tions, on which the' two promKes were at lirft
grounded | and to prefer that which appears to
have thp best original foundation, and to rej-ft
the other, the original balis oi which (to fay no
worle) \Vas but a delusive vifior.
To apply all this to the nrefent cafe
r. Tiie promi r e or public faith plighted to the
original creditors, wa¥ grounded on their lYioft
acknowledged meiits and earnings, granted tor
fupplie? jprviccs rendered by them to our
country in extreme diftreJs—-to vvho f e virtue
and efforts we aYe indebted ior all the money
we now enjoy, yea, for the very walls of the
house in which we have fat deliberating whethe.
we would pay them or not.
2. The promise made to tbe.fpeculatots (if
any was made) was grounded on no original
merits, earnings or valuable cons deration paid
or rendered to any body, or so muth as field up
or pretended hy them. They frf>
tlieinfelve^into theobfblete purviev ofapnb'tc
ast, and by rhe most fhameleis fophiltry which
ever insulted the understanding oi a nation, let
up a claim to v. which they never earned,
to hire, when they had not and to re
wards, without any pretenfovs to th£ viraJes
and merits to which they were due.I leave the reader to make bis election which
of these two fafths or promiies he will prefer,
and only stop to declare that I offer these things
in the face of the world, as matters of public
notoriety, and challenge any American, who
has either coufcience of right or feelings of hu
manity, ts deny an iotaofthem, or to differ from j
me in the sentiments of his own heart, if he can.
I fuppole it will be obje£ed to air this, that
the thing is done and cannot be mended—This is, in- I
deed, an old plea, and a pretty good clincher for
runaway matches; but 1 don't think it will apply
to the present cale— t will be said that the fpe
cuiators are in porfeffion, they are strong and
numeroas, and it will be difficult to oust them;
but truth and right are ftror.ger than they. 1
know they have got hold of great sums of our
public money, under the name ofintereft, which
I lujp«).e they will keep; for I don't expert
that refolding will ever make a part of our
fumjm<g jyftem. But the great capital is unpa ; d,
and ilill remains in the bank and in the nation,
and may be disposed of yet as national honor,
faith and right (hall require. But as things go
on, tiiis great capital.will not reit with us -ong,
but will loon be drained from the extreme parts
into the great cities, and from thence will take
its departure for Europe, never to ie(um.
We have indeed one comfort left, that as
long as our fields itipply corn and flax, and our i
flocks and herds yield butter, cbeete, milk, meat:
and wool, we cannot.ffcirve or want clothes-
On the whole matter, let what difficulties fe
eder Honour i.» () | pray God that the dolcfnll
cruel aUdge—Let t-he jhtckea deer go may
narer tw the inottu of our Union.
A CITIZEN OF PHILADELPHIA.
Oilj.tr n, 1792.
Foreign Affairs.
1
i r ' ->
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
PEBMIKENT SITTING.
AcGL'gT 12.
CUSTINE transmitted a Ict-
VJ ter, written to him.by the Prince
de Conde : it fee forth, that 35,000
men were before Landau ; that it
would be folly to refill ; that the fo
reigu troops would put a || , 0 lhe
Iword ; he advised him to deliver up
the place.
Gen. Culline sent no answer. He
lodged the letter in the hands of the
Municipality.
Three citizens came f« the bar.
They introduced M. Bernard,the in
ventor of a military machine, the ef
fect of which was lerrible : 90 (hots,
lie said, could be fired with it. The
Allembly approved of the invention
and,nvi.ed the citizen to fit within
the bar.
August tj.
M Coiidorcet proposed an address
to the trench people, to the armies
and to the Amballadors, relative to
late occurrence,. We shall artemp,
being.particular detailing the en
"gene address, as it may very pi 0 .
perty be termed an epitome' of all
he ££» eVen,S l Which h "e marked
the lalt ten months )n France.
M. Condorcet began with making
The'k" ° brerVa,io " 8 ,hC
the kingdom when the National Le
g.flat.ve Aflembly met. The emi!
grants, he Paid, were affcmbled thro
out Germany )n arms, vowing vet,
rr' ~h / iand «'-w^.
en them birth fanatic prielts were
fL"V° ? C ' Vil W3r i" every par t
of the kingdom ■ a foreign war ,
threatened Frenchmen. The Nati
onal Aflemhly, by the rigorous 7ne a
they had adopted, (truck at the
very root of the e»il_,b„,
crees both aeainft the en '
baffled their g„ o d and honfft
10 fanc '""n them
ih* highefl niilFruU prevails r
that moment. The *83 t
the Executive Power wift^ t * 7 gh ?
of all the rebel! TbeVnf
tile preparations of forei-n P
urged hostile
the part olr ranee nprGA' *■ on
ters did not even , P erfid , lOD s Minif
they had i„ view . the r ends
»"iontVS e g„n; M 5
...k .dXSkt'.T*,""' ?"
a time exposed t". r was for
ate®®*
tria, wh2 C S? W3r against A»r
oos proje<fls callc I 'i j ambiti.
rnptore l ' C '" ed aloud f °r a fig„ al
A had of a<9i»:»..
tions—but soon after corruption crept
in among the rank*,' the military o i
perations were impeded by a want ot
harmony between the Generals ana
Minilleis—the patriae Miniltei» were,
difmilted !■
! s The guard of ISOO men granted to
jthe King by the Coultituiioii, gave
I unequivocal proofs of ancipatristic
intentions.— Ihe Legislative Bodv
dilcltarged rhem. Ihe King prailed,
j and gave them an iucreafe of pay.
The people became more and more
unealy in the capicaj. The 20thJutif,
an immense multitude of people weiH
to the Aflembly, and called lor a de
cree to bring Louisfrom the Throne.
The citizens Sled oft' before che As
sembly, and then proceeded to the
palace co prefenc a petition to the
King. The zeal of the Mayor of P6-
ris leilrained the energy of the peo
pie, and kept them within the limits
of moderation. The Miniftcrs tho't
that event might bring abouc a civil
war ! 1 hey drew up an inlidious pro
clautation. General La Fayette came
up to Paris, and spoke in the name
of his arnty ! —Several departments
ruled unconstitutionally, by fending
flattering addrefles to the King,
bingers of falfehood. Under cbele
lircumftances, the National Aflein
bly fuinmoned the confederates of J
Paris. They creaced a Committee
of General Safety, and declared the |
State was in danger.
in thfc mean time a PrufCan Gene
ral publilhed a Manifelto, and the
King (carcely noticed it ; and as it
was, he did it indirecftly. Besides
those general motives, said M. Con
dwrcet, there are particular ones,
which regard the capital.—The citi
tizens of Paris saw the King surround
ed by base, vile, and cowardly con-
Ipiracors. The Conltituiion ordered
him to notify imminent hostilities ;
and the Memblv knew nothing of
the Prussian proceedings, until t'heir
formidable death-dealing battalions
were at the very gates of France,
i etJtions and addrelles without num
ber were prelented against the King
-Dethrone the pcrfiinjus man ! was
the burthen of all and each of them.
1 he Aflembly could no: b.ut take the
momentous quetion into confiderati
°j ' seVeralf eVeral P oint * were to be difcufl
ed j but the impatience of the people
burst forth.—They inarched like free
men towards the King's dwelling
he (ought refuge in the Aflembly,
knowing that fandluary would not
be invaded—Some National Volun
teers guarded the Palace, but there
1* e l* j W '^ s "mongthem — Frenchmen
looked with an evil eye on soldiers
who were in the capital in direct op
polition to law.
n. i received order* to fire at rbe,
' ery moin ««<he Nati
onal GnardsTvere carrying'word* of
A e de e i>Bta t - e T Ch ' irHtatcd citizens -
A deputation from the National Af
fenibly appeared among the people
—The treachery wajthen discovered,
puni/hed. The National
Aflembly hearers of what was goinir
I J {' I® endeavor
t °±V" e^C - but ,I, ey vvilhed
he people to manifeft their folentn
Cor C S„T' g Tb" t r\ d b) ' * N /*" > "' i
coontrynien' f° ndorcet exhorted his
Your r' r ° Union anc * courage,
* er y 'hißg for ii'benv y t a h C C '
(, y 10 facrffice .heir r''-"
r " Ce n**n ~ c *'itence for it—
„ la ,
feft their memory"" ,Cir,or '" e can ef
P la T u?e e -ThL bly -, Ha " echoed " ilh a P
be v " dreft was "dered t,
I »Kia»d : r h n depJrtmt " t '
Ambafladons' over renc '
, 14.
lie' was ° abr:£r-introduced
from the Section f°v' de P utati °n
,; " d . <he (Wnf ° f Vend °n'e-He
•ke Place Vendom * ty . rant cov eretl
ed - was brought to' t he a r nr ? PPeai "
earth ; i t has „ 1 el ot
" a:i
u > w Hat uionu
170
| rnent can be more worthy of the ma
jetty of the Nation than a tomb,rear
led in a pyramidical form, in honor
jf the heroes who fell in the batje
[of the iotji of this mouth !
M.Cambon moved, that the As
(enibly fliould order foveral. impor
tant letters, found among M. la
forte's papers, to be read.
M. Andrieu seconded the motion
he said he had remarked these words
in one written instrument.
" (jivon tor an advertisement to
fink the credit of the alfignats."
M. Bazire contended that alt the
papers contained more, or fewer
proofs of the King'speitidy ; his col
lufion with the enemies of the state
were felf-evident.
August 21
M. SERVAN, Minister at War,
informed, that the " villain" I.a
Fayette, and all his officers liad de
ferted. The Lieut. Col. of the 43d
regiment gave him this information ;
whieh might have been expected from
this imaginary hero. France, fays
the minister, was purged of this in
fignificanr individual, between (lie
19th and 20th inftantt—He, without
doubt, wi)] join his cousin, [Bouille]
the gasconading destroyer adieu
then to the houses ofParis.
The minilter added, " that the
Coinmiflioners of the Afi'embly were
at liberty; and the soldiers of the
late general La Fayette, had been
brought to fee his treasonable inten
tions."
M Maran informed the AlTembly,
that the minilter had told him, th3t
La Fayette had endeavored to lead
hit soldiers into an ambuscade, to
have them all butchered ; .bar that
the army, suspicious of Tome design,
had remained faithful to their inter
efb, and firm on tfieir potts. M. Ma
ran, who had heretofore eonfidered
the charges made againtt La Fayette,
by the mob, to be onjuft } said he
now acknowledged his error, and
freely abjured it.
The imprefllon of the letter of the
minister at war was moved—and tlrat
it be sent to the departments bv ex
press.
M. Breard thought the Aibject
ought to undergo a complete inveiti
gation, before any order was taken
on it—therefore moved, that the
Lieutenant Colonel of the 43d regi
ment should be heard at the bar on
the fubje<ft—Adopted.
M. Saladin moved, That the Prefi
jdent be requelted to write to the ar
my of the N'.rth, to teftify to them,
its approbation of their good
and patriot!fm.— Decreed.
The three last commiflianers of
he Afl'embly, wrote from Rlieims,
under 20th August. They announce
that the administrators of the depart
ment of Ardennes have retrained their
former resolution, and requelt, in
their behalf, the pardon of the nati
on. The commiflioners add, that
the municipality of Rheims, which
had been sent to Sedan, had return
ed i and inform, that the Commons
of Sedan, impelled by the delirium
of aristocracy, had detained them
prisoners seven hours, under pretence
that they were fartious persons.
The other Commiflioneri inform
ed the Aflentbly, that the Northern
army had courajjeoufly refifte<l the
arts made use of to mislead and de
ceive them ; and refufed to take the
oath which their infignificanc gene
ral wiftied to impose on tliem.
M. Montinorin, formerly minister
of Foreign Affairs, appeared at the
bar—not with that haughty counte
nance which before had given so
much offence to every freeman ; but
on the contrary, now excited as much
pity, at lie had before iufpired indig
nation. He was interrogated by the
• resident, relative to several tranfac-
Hons of which he was fufperted.
The examination was lengthy, bat
nothing latisfadory to. the Aflembly
tianfpired therein—He denied the
| charges that were made against him,
[and it appeared that he was not the
[Montmorin alluded to. The other
Montmorin was therefore imtnedi
j taken into custody
examination was interrupted
ty M. Rolland, Minister of the line
nor, who Communicated a letter
from the Commons of Sedan, confirm
ing the enlargement of the C.mmif
fioners, and endeavoring to excul'c
tlieir late condufl, by a}!..!,. . ,
'hey had received orders t,' o
|, »yettet°«rr e ft lb e ,hree 1 1
P S Who - ,be J Taid, called ihe.l
Comnnfl ancsf lt , eJijfen -e ;t: .
Commiflioners wroieti./.L
had* 81 y, but that the t0
had not yet an entire know!,.) "
the object of their miflion. The, °/
To sent two letters of the '« Vil 1 ,
J..d ,h.
knowledge this let f er . "•
to ».old himfelf falely an j
rear rer 1,0n,il ,on,ib le 'herefor. His'
rear™,, were, that the National A
fembly, as well as the Kin* were 1
"erned by a fa<f»i, n> kept i,', pa .
the purpose. As for himfelf he wolld
give hi, voice for liberty and equ ,|i
IL : K "°i r H cb as hud t-or » 'one
time prevailed. ®
Paris, August jj.
The former lately Palace of the
huillertes, is nearly a wreck
There ,« q ue ft,„ n 0 f , evellj . '
theeanh, that the dwellingo* foma
ny' .yramsmay no ) onger t
free people an d put them iir m i n[ i
of the shackles which galled then,
tor lo many centuries.
> eftercjay evening between five and
fix* clock, M. la Porte, late keeper
oI the pnvy purse, condemned by
the Special Tribunal to be beheaded
on the square of the Carou2et, under
went his sentence in presence of an
mimenfe croud of fpeiftators.
The jury, after a trial of four and
twenty hours, con»i(Sed him afhgv.
mg made an improper use of the ci.
vil lift,in oiderto foment a civil war;
it appeared evidently on his taial,
that he had hired incendiary writers,
wnofe poif.inous productions tended
to defeat the exertions of all the
friends of liberty.
M. la Pone went to the block with
a fortimde and a resolution worthy
of a better and a more jnft eaufr.
He, however, declared hit innoecnce
to the last ; but the written proofs
produced in court, are indelibleteltr
monies of his guilt and perfidy. .
M. la Pone was turned of fifty.
He was drefled in a new suit of fiilt
clothes, and appeared with as much
unconcern as if he was going to the
levee of his fate matter.
The Common Council of this capi
tal during M. Bailly's Mayoralty,had
ordered a medal to be struck in ho-
nor o| General la Fayette. M. Du
vivier, a diftinguiftied young artist,
was comniiffioned to execute it. But
unwilling to perpetuaie the blasted
fame of the fugitive General,he jef
terday laid before the Council his
unfinifhed work. The C. Council or
dained that the effigy of the Hero if
both Hemispheres /hould be filtmnlf
dalhed to the ground on St. Louis'*
day (the tutelar Saint of France) 2 fth
August, at ro o'clock in the morning,
cn the Place de Greve j and that the
ceremony should be performed by
the executive power, alias fact Ketch,
This great capital is perfectly calm,
though parriotifm was never known
to be To much alive ; it is the wel
come guest of every honed heart ;
ihere is no, not even the finallelt ap
pearance of the latecrifis ; all is har
mony, concord and peace.
Louis is as careless and fat as oft"
al. The yonng prince is as lively «
ever ; the pretty innocent never
committed a crime he does not
know what reinorfe is. May he be
always eqnally ignorant of vice and
its concomitant evils !
General Arthur Dillon's condoift is
(indefinable—What he advances one
day and swears to, he retraifts the
next : As a proof of which the Natt"
onal Afleinbly have already declared,
at three different times, that he had
loft the confidence of the nation-
Twice they repealed tbeir decree,
on hearing that General Dillon hai.
protested against the conduct of ih e
I'uperfeded king. It feems,however,
that he has recanted once more, an
a third decree has been ifliied again
him. The Afleinbly know not ia
what elnfs to rank the dubious cha-
Witfter—The world is convinced
I)is bravery ! but that is only a P ro "
felfional virtue, oCen injurious" en
the:e want* a good head ro
I 'is Excellency Lord Gower is in"
de;ained in Pari*. He cannot procare his paflports for himfelf and his
attendants. The present is a tem
peltuous moment, and etiquette mult
be laid aside. His Excellency had
declared he had not a French servant
in his suite. Lord Gower, it feenis,
bas been very liberal in giving pall
ports to French people. The Aflem
bly do not approve of I'uch officiouf
nefs.
M. Luxeul,latea Bernardino Monk
at Paris, an ingenious and Ikilful me
chanic, has invented an organ with
out bellows, the pipes being made to
found by means of a wooden piston,
that ascends on touching the keys.
He has executed a model with palte
board pipes to ftiew the agreeable ef
fect of the instrument.
Tlie King lias borrowed immense
funis of money to support his rebel
brothers and their criminal-adherents.
If thing* do not take a different turn
in his favour, above twenty bankers
in this capital will be obliged to flop
payment ; and the futns being so im
inenfe, the bankruptcies in Paris will
occasion several others in all the great
towns in Europe.—His debts amount
to at lealt 150 millions oflivres.
Ttjere are at this moment upwards
of two thousand men employed in
fortifying the tower of the Temple,
where the King is confined — the ditch
which is to furronnd it, is to be 20
feet wide.
Since the roth of August, glorious
epocha ! Frenchmen look, walk, fit,
speak, do every thing differently ;
they have a domed the primeval air
of liberty ; and eyery individual now
seems to fay—
" 1 w as frfee as Nature f;rft made Man,^
".Ere the hafe law sol' fervitndu began,
" whsn wild in wood 3 the noble savage ran."
General La Fayette has prevailed
upon*part of liis army to fweai nei
tlier to abandon him nor the King ;
and tfifc feetter.to Succeed in his at
tempt,.' h« thusnddiefled the troops
ilmler "fti* ';eoiiininml —" Let those
who wish well to' the Constitutional
Kilift jwin me; and fucb as are on
Ktag fiilfj withdraw from
tinder my lKindard."
T lie ci izens of St. Germains, long
distinguished for their patriotism and
its attendant virtues, have written to
thsir brethren of Nancy to encourage
them to proceed in their glorious ca
reer.— We lded the following bold
paflage from theit* addiefs :
" The hist Frenchman (ha'l fay to
his oppredor, Tyrant! ihou thought'lt
that thou had'll conquered me—Thou
hall betrayed the cause of humanity,
and thou wifhefl to enslave thy fel
low creature. — Dare look me full in
the.face : — Liberty is written on it
in majeltic and indelible charatfters—
Nature engraved it there—flie is the
mother of all —Pierce my heart, and
theie thou wilt find the altar of free
dom, which thy despicable cruelty
cannot conquer."
All the fiif'picions priefls of Paris,
at lead those who had not taken pro
per precaution to avoid the quick
•ye of the police, are shut up in ihe
former Convent of the Carmelite
Friars.
All the Managers of the Piny-'
honfes in Paris, are emulous in ftep-j
ping forward to the relief of the wi-,
jdows and orphans of the brave citi 1
zens who w ere killed in theatftion of
the Toth of this monih.
General Montefquiou, who com
mands ilie Southern army, has not as
yet declared himfelf f-»r or again(V
the National Afl'emhly. Our readers
however recolletft, that when he was
lalt in Paris, and i hat thei e was ques
tion of dethroning the King, he told
the United Committees he knew to a
certainty, that if the Naiional Assem
bly dethroned LouisXVl. t here would
not be an officer in the army ten days
after.
STRASBURG, Ai-guftio.
A Pruflian army, supported by a)
body of 6000 Anftrians, it marching
towards Thionville. Another, rein
forced by 12.000 French emigrants,
is proceeding to Saar Louis.
Both columns consist ofabout jo,oco
txifn. It seems to:be their plan to di
vide themlelvea into two bodies ; one
thii d of which is to besiege the two
above mentioned places, while the
main army attempts to enter France.
They are confident that thousands of
French male-contents will flock to
tlieir itandard.
Besides the y0,6'00, there is a Corps
de Relerve of 12,000 men ftw each
column, at about 7 leagues from the
main army. Another body of emi
grants, supported by near 4000 Auf
trians is advancing towards the duchy
of Deux-Ponts. The troops in the
Palatinate have orders to follow the
fame plan, but in differenent di recti
ons.
RICHMOND)'October 18
Yesterday the house of delegates
pal Ted the following resolution :
" Resolved unnnimoufly, that the
speaker be requested to communicate
to Richard Henry Lee, Esq. the high
feiife entertained by his country of
the services rendered by him through
the course of a long life, so ufefully
devoted to the public interelt ; to
express the regret felt by this house
at hearing that he is compelled by
the infirmities of age to retire from
public life, and their sincere wish
that he may in the private scene to
which he is returning, yet, long ex
perience those enjoyment* attendant
011 the confcioufnefsof a faithful dis
charge of duty ; and that lie may be
as happy as he is refpecfted."
Mr. Lee was one of the Senators
from this State, in the Senate of the
United States, and has resigned his
feat. The Hon. John Taylor is cho-
I'eri in his room.
Philadelphia, Oft. 27.
ABSTRACT of EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
PARIS,
22. M. Oswald, a member of the Na
tional Aircnibly, after some preliminary remarks,
on the politics of Great-Britain in refpeft to
France, proposed afraternal address tu be fenti
tp the Britiih nation, in whichfha.ll be unfolded
the whole conspiracy of the traitor LpuisXVl.
and all the outrages which provoked the i'acred
iufrirreftion of the ioth Augult. And that the
address be transmitted to all the popular socie
ties of England, Scotland and Ireland—with i
request to have it re-printed, and circulated
throughout the Britilh Empire.
Thus, said M. Oswald, you will dispel the
arsffocratic clouds that o&fcure the political at
mosphere of Englandyou will raif'e the spirits
of your brethren, the patriots of Britain, Ihack-
led by royal proclamation!;, atid (yranlzed ovgf
by the odious manoeuvres of an Iriquifitorial
Administration ; and then, perhaps, England,
freed from her tyrants, will at length lend you
a vigorous army to eradicate ariftoqracy and
royalty j and, in unison wfthyou, to bring about,
the revolution of Europe ; and, finally, of the,
whole htafriart species.
M. Boifguvon proposed an amendment. He
wished the copy of the proceedings of the Na
tional AlTembly, and many copies of the papers
found in the king's deik, should be added to the
address proposed by M. Oswald,
M. Oiwald's motion, and the amendment,
were unanimouflv carried.
M. Chjtbot wilhed all taxes to be abolished,
the land-tax excepted.
August 14. Ail violences had ceased in
Paris at this date, and the operations of the
newly constituted authorities were daily en
creafing in vigor, diftinetnefs and popularity.
M. D'Afliy the commander of the Swiss guards,
■said to have been killed 011 the 10th, has beer
tried and acquitted, the orders to that corps
j not having been given hv him. M. de la Porte,
Krttendatit of the civil lift was on his trial. P4.
Barnave has been arrested. Alexander Lameth
elcaped. All the King's servants are in future to
be appointed by the commun tv. A cargo of
j statues has arrived at Paris from Chantillv,
| among other? that oftheconftableMontmorenci.
1 which are to be melted intocannon. M.D'Aven
. houlr, a Member of the National AlTembly at
tempting to eft-ape to the Auftrians was ftop
| ped by some peasants, on which he (hot himfelf
through the head with a pistol. The affairs of
' Poland are lettling under the direction of the
Empress of RufTa—The King has offered to
i abdicate the crown—but this offer was not at
, cepted. The Porte, contrary to expectation,
j has not e r poufed the canfe of the Poles; but or.
i the contrary has suspended the daily allowance
of Count Potocki, the Polifli Ambaflador, and
I removed his guard of honor.
The plague has again appeared in Constan
tinople, and in the neighboring villages. Four
(hips of the line have heen lately put into com
miflion by the British government. Count
Mean and Beaurieux, nephew of the last Prince
BHhop of is elected to that Bilhoprick
Accounts-from Irdia to tie loth April, fay,
that Lord Cornwall!* with the army moved
from Seringapaiam the 26th March. Tippoos'
sons are to refute at Madras.
It has been proposed to level the Palace of
the ThuilleriSs, that the dwelling of so man
many tyrants may no longer uiFend a free peo
pie. A medal had been orde>ed to be (truck ir
honor of M. La Fayette, by the common cour
cil of Paris —'nit thev have now ordained 11 th::t
the eifigy of the hero ofboth hemifpberes (houV
be solemnly dallied to the ground on St. Loui -'
day, 25th Aiiguft, at 10 o'clock, A. M. on tK
place de Greve"—the ceremony to be perform
ed bv the e-ccutive power, alias Jack Kerch.'
It ii probable that not one orthe prefer,t Common (curt
cil oj Parinvere members of that body when the medai
was ordered b beJlruck. Of'Mardial Luckner,not
171
wlthftanding all his apparent devotion to the
cause of Liberty, the £aris newfpape'rs fay that
the patriot? blulh for their extreme credulity,
who have blazened forth his pretended virtues.
!Vl. Luckner has a son in the Imperial service-
Various accounts from the French armies On
the■fVoi:tier r % concur in-faying, that they are
becoming more formidable daily—a new bat
j talion arriving every day ; recruits it is true,
J but ardent in a good cause. An addreis to the
[ National Ail'embly from a patriotic locietv in
Ireland was communicated to that body on the
18th Aug. by M. Francois, with this address, a
remittance of 6850 livres was also received to
assist France in carrying on the war. The Af
ifeipbly teftified the highest fenie of' gratitude
/oi 4 tire dignified conduct of the Irifli Societv.
M. Montmorin, late Secretary for foreign af
fairs, ha; been examined before the National
Aljembly and acquitted—the committee having
read his correspondence, found 110 traces of cri
minality in his department. An older was if
lued to ai reft the body of Col. JVlontinorin, Go
vernor of Fontainbleau (not the ex-ininifter.)
A c ommittee of the National Aflembly has
been appointed to report a decree for coniifcat
ing the property of M.la Fayette, bothin France
and the Weft-Indies.
In the proceedings of the National AfTembly
of August there is a communication from
the Coinmiflioners deputed to the army on the
RVnq, in which they fay they were received by
thp ai;my with acclamations of joy—and Gen.
Biroii paid them diftinguilhed honours—the
troops took the oath of, liberty and equality
with visible marks of fatisfaftion. All the offi
cers took the oath—General Broglie, however,
Mefi'rs, Gazarelli and Dufarge, soon after re
canted.; they were immediately fupereeded,
left the contagion should Spread through the
troops.
' The Legilkture of Ncw-Jerfey are now fit.
.tirtgj at Trenton—The Legiflatiire of MaJTa
ciiuietts wlfl meet the beginning of next month.
By a return publilhed in the " Augusta Chro
nicle' 1 ot the 6ih inft. it appears that Abraham
Baadwiw and Thomas P. Cashes, Efqrs. are
elected Members of the House of Reprefenta
tjv?.i of the ynited States for that State.
William Hindman, Esq. is elected a Member
of the House of Representatives of the United
States, for the seventh diftrift of the State of
Miryland.
Peter Silvester, Esq. on account of his de
clining health, &rc. declines {landing a candidate
at the eniuing election of federal repiefentatives
for the ftatc of New-York.
Jonathan Trumbull, James Hillhoufc, Jona
tUan Sturges,_ Jeremiah Wadfwottli, Amafa
Learned, Benjamin Huntington, and Stephen
Mix Mitchell, Efprs. are chosen by the free
men ol Connecticut, to reprelent them in the
tiext Congress.
The driving of the New-Brunfwick Lot
tery commenced on Monday last.
jVieflrs. Wignkll and Rein aclf. have pub
lished prppofals in Bolton for erecting a Theatre
in that tbwn, on a similar plan to that erecting
in'this city.
A meeting of the Officers of the late Penn
fylvanla line of the army, is notified to be held
in this city the 20th November, at the City
Tavern.
The National Gazette of lafl Wednesday
f»J« —" It is a melancholy consideration, that
the plan for civilizing being given over, the ex
tirpation of the Indian tribes seems now the
great object in view on the part of the enlight-,
enei citizens of tbeie states."—On which a cor
refpbndent remarks, that if this is the determi
nation of the enlightened citizens of our country,
what must that of the uncnlighlc'ci part be ?—'lt
;is hardly poflible to conceive of a more general
libel on the character of a nation, than is con
tained in the above extract.'
We are happy in being informed,
that Mr. AnthonyHaswell, whose
Priniing-Office at Rutland, Vermont,
was lately consumed, has already ob
tained a new atfbrtment of Types, &c.
and was to commence bufinefg again
in that town immediately.
A Siage-Coach for paflengers now
runs between Providence and Wor
cester (Ma(lachufetts) in which the
Mail of the United States is carried.
The late condudt of Gen. In Fay
ette, lias excited much public atten
tion :—And we wait in the moment
ary expectation of receiving a de
claration from him, explaining his
motives therein; and from the known
Patriotism Integrity and love of Li
berty, which have marked his cha
racter, since his firli introduction to
public life, there cannot be a doubt
entertained, that it will give (atif
fadtion to every mind not immove
able fixed by prejudice. As yet we
have only seen his lafl tranfa<ftion
through the dillorted medium of his
inveterate enemies the Jacobines of
Paris— and common jultice requires
we should wait his defence. As his
conduit heretofore has been not only
wholly irreproachable, byt highly
meritorious—we feel a degree of con
fidence, that in the ilTueof the invef
igation, his last proceeding will also
be found not to merit censure.
*' We are now engaged in the bu
siness of elertioneering ; the old ene
mies of the conltitution are as buly
as they were at the time of the Con
vention, to prevent us adoption
It is true their tune is changed, they
now pretend to be friendly to the
const itut ion iilelt, but tepiobate the
measures of rhe government: It oughc
not to be forgotten that the enemies
of ihe doings of Congress under the
conllituiion are geneially the fame
per/out wild oppoled its adoption ;
we have various candidates held up
in our papers—but 1 have It l ong con
fidence that in addition to thole- who
have been the agents in regenerat
ing the affairs of our country, we
fhail eledt perfonsof firm, federal in
dependent principles—men who will
huild up and not lay walte and de-
It roy.
" You will fee by the papers that
the canal in the Diltridt of Maine is
prol'ec citing with fpiric.
" Tiie bridge over Merrimack Ri
ver will be so far couipleated as to
be pafl'able this year ; it is a noble
effort of genius.—There is a small
iftand in the river—an arch of 160
feet diameter and 40 feet above rhe
level of high water connects this
island with the Main on oue fide ;
the channel 011 the other fide is wider
—but (he center arch on this fide it
140 feet diameter. This is one a
ntong the great number of stupen
dous works which owe tlieir origin
to that confidence between mail and
man which has been created, or re-
Itored by the measures of the gene
ral government.
" We hear with pleasure, thac
your men of property are employing
their capitals in extensive underta
kings which will eilentially benefit:
ilie public as well as themselves
The projected canals in Pennsylva
nia ate plans worthy the genius of
that enterpi izing Slate, i molt hearti
ly wifti them success. The people of
the State of New-York have caught
the fame glorious spirit—and will
doubtless exhibit something worthy
of ihemfelves and their rel'ources —
1 am informed that the canal busi
ness is prosecuting with ardor in Come
of the Southern States—but no par
ticulars have reached us of late late ;
they nvuft enjoy many natural ad
vantages to facilitate enterprizes of
this kind.
" A number of our citizens are turning their
attention to the Federal City. Several are
now on a tour to tho Southward, who, I am in
formed, intend to purchase lots. On their re
turn, I may be able to communicate some parti
culars. At present would observe, that in or*
der to make the place deligned for the perma
nent residence a centre of powerful attraftioi:,
the molt generous terms ought to be held out to
those who would become a&ual settlers. There
jnuft be a depot for merchandize, a scene for
trade, mechanics and manufactures—and there
must also be a fettled country to create a de
mand. How far this is at present the cafe, I
do not know; but certain It is, that the rapid
settlement of any particular spot favorably fj
tuated, may be greatly promoted by liberal and
judicious measures."
Mr. Freneau, in his National Gazette
of Wednesday last, fays, " that the Gazette of
the United States was set up, as has ever been
taken Jor certain, under an anti-republican pa
tronage."
The history of the origin and progress of this
Gazette is too simple a business to detail to the
public—but if there is a person in this city, or
in the United States, who has u takenJor cer
tain" from any circumstances that have come
to their knowledge, that the above insinuation
has any foundation in truth, the Editor pledges
himfelf to prove, in a per&nal interview, that
it is totally unfounded.
Died, the 28th September, at the Rock-Land
ing, Georgia, Major Richard Caii, of thefirft
U. S. Regiment.
ARRIVED at the PORT »J PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Hannah,
Citizen, Feinour, Cadii
Adrians, Johnson, Spain
Jason, Lillibridge, Cape-Francois
Polly, Charnock, ditto
Polacre St. Vincent Paul, Gafcony, Marfcilles
Brig Kitty, Foster, Hi/paniola
Sch'r. Charming Betley, Odlin, Fayal
Frederickfburg Packet, Hall, Malaga
Two Brothers, Hewfon, Halifa-V
William, Knox, Boston
Juno, Norton, ditto
j Sloop Hawke, Kerr, Jamaica
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
| Full (bares Bank U. S. 45
\ (bares,
Unfunded debt of the U. £>. 21J on the principB T
And on the late reft up to ill Jan. 1788, t$J,
[Columb. CiNtinel.~\
ExtrxH of -Utttr fn„i 80-tan, dated
Gttobsr I j.
SHlt MEWS,
Moll,
PRICE OF STOCKS,
Barbatioes
V// 9 | Intoff
'Sji
j«r cent, prfmGeneral Poft-Office.
Phi ladilfhia, St pi. 10,1792.
Proposals will be received at this Office!
until the fifteenth day ot November next, 111-
clufively, for carrying the Mails of the United
States on the following Post Roads, from the fir 11
day of January next, until the firll day ot June,
1794.
In Massachusetts avd Nf w-Hamfsh t * e.
1. from H ifcajjct tp Pott.'ana in the diftriit of
Maine : The ruoj 10 leave every Tucfday
by fix o'clock in the morning. and ariive at Port
land the nrxt day by one in the afternoon : —Rc-
turning, to le- ve Portland every Fhurfday by fix
m the mor.iung, and an ive it Wtfcadcl the next
day bvone in the afternoon.
Fmm Portland to Portsmouth ; The mail to
leaT« Portland cveiy Monday and I*hurfday by
fix '' I rk in the morning, and arrive at PoTtf
inomh eveiy Tuesday and Friday by ten in the
forenoon Returning, 10 leave Portlmouth eve
ry Tueiday and Friday ar one in tne afternoon,
and 2triveat Poitland on Wedntfday and Saiui
3ay by fix in the everting.
3. .From I trtjmcutk to Bujion : From November
firit Jo May fiiU, the nxaii to leave Poiilmouih
cveiy Tuclday and Friday, at two o'clock in tnt
afternnoon. and Arrive at Boftwn on Wcdnefda\
and Saturday by fix in the evening : — Returning,
CD J rave Monday and' Thursday, by I
fix in the and arrive at Portfmowil) <jn
Tueiday and Friday by t,en it) the forenoon : — And
from tyay fiift (o November fnfl, the mail to leave
Poiffrftouth r*vrry Tue'fclay, ThWffWy and Satui
da\\ by fdur intbe morning, and arrive at Bolton
tiiefame doy| by fix in the evening Ret ur ping,
leave B<>Qtyn eyer,y We,dnrfd*y auo
Friday.by four in the* morning, and amvt at
Portfmou;h the fame day* by (ix in the evening.
In M'A.siA.ctius'iT ts, Connecticut 01, d
siiii NIW-York.
4. Fronj^^« % bv ti'vn£jUr, Sjiri/fsfisldrHarJ/oxft,
MiJJUfoun, and Aeusnavcir. to Ntaj-York : horn
JUftftrrtfcer fii ft to Mayfirft, ttie mail to leave B^f-1
tdn everv Moidav Thursday, at one o'clock
in ihnaf'ei noon ; and ai rive a; New-York every
Saturday anH Wednesday (the sixth day from its
rfeparllirejby ten in tlie forenoon ? Returning, to
lfc&ve Mew-York rvcVy Montlav and iliurfday,
at one o'clock in flh£ iftefrnodn, and arrive it Bof
toe every Sa'urday wicj.Wcdnefdiy, by ten in tkt
fo/enoon \ /\nd f.rom Mjy fufl iq Gfft,
the mill to Irave Bolton every Monday, Wcdnef
day and Friday, by three o'clock in the morning,
and arrive-at New-fork every 'Thai fifty, Sat'ur
day and Tuefd*y (jhr fourth cjay from it'i df.
j aiture) by eleven in-thp forenoon : Returfunr, to
leave New-York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, hv one o'clock in the afternoon, and ar
rive at Boston every TKurfflaf, Saturday and
byfij in the.evening.
h Ulv-Yor#, .\rw-Jfejis'Ev and Pen-nsyl
• iiicod il)«» i .4}fty<S4intSt :rp ; 1 ;jfj
c. .Between Nw-York t (by, Newark and Eliza
betntown) znti Philadelphia, every «(ay in the week
Sundry excepted : The mails to leave New-York'
at aoOn, and Philadelphia at one p'ajock in the
afternoon; ?n d ar rive at Philadelphia and New-
V k refycAivel*, the n- xt day after thc.r de
parture, ten in |ne forenoon ; excepting the !
iftaife 61 Saturday, which-arc ufarriveat ihf Came
hour on Mondav, 1
In Pennsv i. v ANj.r atijt Maryland!
6. From Philadelphia toUa'ttocrc : The mail to
lea*# Philadelphia eyeiv Monday, Wednefda>
and Friday, at and arrive at B.altiinqre each
Oiccecdirtg day by n'ooii ; Returning, to. leave
Baltimore every Monday, Wednesday and Friday,
by four o'clock in itie morn-ng, and arrive at Phi
jadc'ohia each fucceedmg day by eleven in the
forenoon.
7. From Baltimiri to Ale.runit it: The mail to
Itave Baltimore every Tuefdav, Thursday and Sa
turday, at one o'clock in the afternoon, and airive
at Alexandria each fucceediog day by eioht in the
morning: Returning, 10 leave Alexandria every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday by four oYlock
J and arrive at Baltimore on Tues
day, 1 hurfday and Saturday by ten in the lore,
noon.
In VI RCI MA.
8. From Alexandria \o Ruhmcnd, PeterMrr, Svf.
+t. and ?<> r tln>outh : The mail lo l f ave A>cxdn.
aria evefy Monday, Wednesday and Mdav, a,'
mne o clock in the morning, and arrive at Rich-
ZT " r , ry Turfd *T. Thursday and Sam,day,
M*'" 'he evening ;at Pcterfbur:;, every Wed.
'» r "!r *t1 '"'he forenoon ■
« Suffolk every Thursday, Saturday , nd TuddaJ
FndaV n M J "j" ; a " d " *o r ' f ™"'h every
Friday. Monday a „d Wednesday, bv ten in the
t:r" ; ,o h
fame f:iday, M„ n d,y an(l Wednesday, a, one
'"I ? rn °" n ' andarfik '»t Suffolk the
4 y h >' {"*« >n 'he evening ; and a. Pfa,(,
burg the next Monday, Wednesday and Friday bv
'«« PettfrlLurg the lain*
} 'he afternoon and arrive at R: r K
mo,id the fame da, s by fix i„ thc evenn'
wd v
r) tour in the morning, and arrive at Al-v j
9 Fjom Richmond bv _
»nd H.- m p lc „,, n 'itZ*'*'
■"ond every Monday W-dntMav "rl R,ch *
four o'clock in'hp ' 3 * r, "iy>'bv!
cn each fuccrrdin 'dal"'!?' f " Xor ' oi kl
r , 8 fIO V. t*y five in-the afiernr»-> .!
.turning to i»«re Norfolk every WednefJa I
Friday an:i Mondu, b y l\k iri H
arrive at Richmond A r , mnrnintr, I
the cvtning. ' I "receding dry, by fix in
10'. TH "^ itoL ' N *.
'
hurg every Friday/ai on,otwt "V"" P«"f
and arrive at Fav.». n . " lhraf «'rnoon
eicHtintheevenlrV- S,, *' Mo by
ville every TuefdaV by four" '" VC Fa "' !c
---«»'ve « Pctc.lWg the next FridaTbv'm"**
he forenoon. a /> 1 ) eleven in ,
A NORTH a»iSouTH CA.O, ,
"• From fay«ite»itl» b» Vi!" A '
Houle Camden, Colombia Zd Cimh
The mail i 'i Abridge, lo
Toefday, by four in the runmin^ 5 """!!"® ™" v
the next day by five in the *f. "' " c «m<irn
« , y he h' n : on ' 3 " d —
>ng to leave Augulb .very Thu.ldav 'I si i<r " J ' nJ
—»r,ive '«C,^e n ,be d S t at s t;';' b h ;
five in the morning, and at Fayetteville the next
Alonday, by fight id the evening.
12. From Augyjia tc Savannah. The mail «o
leave Augusta every Saturday, at one o'clock in the
afternoon, andairiveat Savannah i>e next Mon
day morning by ten : Returning, to Savan
nah tvery Monday, at two o'clock in the-after
noon, and arrive at Augusta the next Wednesday,
by five in the afternoon.
13 From Camden to SNatefourg. The mail 10
Camden every Tr>urtday by four in'the
morning, and arrive at Sta'ctburg by eight : Re
turning, to leave Stateft>urg every Saturday, at two
:n the afternoon, and arrive at Camden bv fix.
In Massachusetts, Rhode-Island and Con
necticut.
14. From Bcjlon to Providence. The mail Xu
leave Boston every Monday and Thuifday, by fix
in the morning, and arrive the fame days at ?ro
vidruce, by five 10 she afternoon ; Returning, to
•cave Providence every Wednesday and Saturday ,
\ v fr< in the mormng, and arrive the fame days
at Builon, by five 111 the afternoon.
(jr-i Pe« sons offering propofai* for this central,
are dtfired ajfo to flptf the lerms on which they
wTH carry the mai] between Boston and Provi
de e, three times a we»k, and every day in the
week (Sunday exc< ptcd) in ca'e a lVige waggon
mould run so often between those two places.
ij. fiixm PivyiJiTn.t % by to Hartford.
The mail tft leave Providence everv Tuesday and
Friday, by fix o'clpck in the morning, and arrive
at Norwich the fame "days, and at Hartford on
v r v eoneldav and S.itin d<i\, by five in the afterjiono :
[ Returning, to Hartford every Monday and
1 huilday, at seven in the morning, arrive <it Nrfr
wich the fame days, and at Providence on Tucf
day an,d Friday, by five in the afternoon.
(fT Per sons otF< .r ng proposals tof this contra#,
laieolfo desired to ftaie the terms 00 which they
will carry the mail betwet n Piovidence and Hart
ford thrretJmes a week, if a (tage waggon should
run so often between those two places.
16. From Aciv-London to Newport, thence by
Brijlol bud M arrcti 10 Providente, ihence by Grten
a:ith to A export, and from Newport Co New-London.
I he mail to leave New-London everv Tue/day,
at two in the afternoon, and arr,iye a.t Newport the
next day by fix in the evening '; leave Newport
every Friday at eight in the morning, and arrive
it ProVidcrtce the fa»T*ie day hy fix in the evening ;
leave Providcncl* on Saturday at eight in the morn
ing, and palling through Greenwich, arrive at
Newport the fame dz.y bf in_theevening; leave
Newport the next Monday at eight in the morn,
ing, and arrive at New-London the next dry by
»en in tne forenoon.
17. t rotn New-Haven to New-London : The mail j
to leave MiV-Haven every Monday, at eight in j
he morning, and arrive at New-London every i
Ijjefdav by ten in the forenoon : — Returning, to
leave New.London every Tuesday at two o'clock
m t' r afternoon, and arrive at New-Haven every
\\ . dnefdav afternoon by fix.
1,8. Frorn Middtrtown to Nesu-London. The mail
to leave Middletown, from November fi,ft ro May
IV rnurfd) y r ' : "' nin rJ» andfrom May to
! .vov cm her. every Friday morning, by
so ciock , and arrive ai New-London by fix in the
j evening of the day of its depart jre : Returning,
to leave New-London each next fuceeeding day by
eight in the morning, aod arrive a* Middletown
by fix in the evening.
In New-York.
J 19. Between the city of New-York (by Xingf
\2k^ e ' \he city of Hudson) and
,A(bufiy. The earners, with the mails, 10 leave
New- York and Albany every Monday and Thjurf
day, by four i n the morning, meet, and return to
each place on Wednesday and Saturday, by fix in
I the evening.
h PISSSUVASU.
to. From PhiUiefphit, hy Lanufier, Yvk-town,
P*"Ju, Sfoppin[bur S , LUmberJburg, Bedford and
Gfeinjburg , 0 The maiftp leave Phila
delphia every Saturday at noon, and arrive at Pitjtf.
burg the next Friday by noon ; remain there not
et« than four, nor rhp, e than fix hours, and return
to Philadelphia the following Frrday by noon.
In thr Stair oj Delaware
J-V Fro ™ n' I™'"1 ™'"- 10 '; b >' Mu-Cojilt, cantwc/r,
frl/Vl •10 " VCT - Thc mj "
leave , WAmitgioh everv Monday afternoon, by
five o clock (or as for.n as ihe mail lYom Philadel
pit-a is received) and arrive a! Dover by five in the
evening o/ Tuesday : Returning, to leave Dover
arrive by five o'clock, arid
the farrie Jay " ***?» »*»ng of
J' Bet A ware and Maryland.
\\Zrl T ', on) , C , h> > <[ ' Jn ' B'irtge, Wy Middletown,
teV H r g£ ' tOWn Cr ° fcßoods ' 10 Ch<f
lleave rhr ft Ea(! °"' Thc m "< "
!hy si* Vcl t"( Bnd S e every Monday afternoon,
iphiaiV" r ;; t " ihe ma,if, ° m ph >i' :
<h,V„ 7' Ved ) *. nd 'five at Eafton by fix ,n
I <On e e"; n w ,w f ; v y L* W* » >«« Kaf
• Tve< \ n *'oay morning by five o'clnrlt
I the faroe'd " ? hnft ' ana B,,itl ge in ihe evening ol
j n,e di y> by eight o'clock.
r r4feia,^r r - 11 lor
I thev will run.' 1 k. tcnm 011 which
h7C'e,T J l?.'r May f,rft to N ' ovrmh "
Bin AM ? C V y Mond »V at half nalt
to' >• m' 9 " Khlr, s «aftpn the next day hy
WrH'fj' L r returning, ) cavc Eafton every
U» rt"»«« y d >, K A - M - '" da —at fhilade'u
U«n half pa It ,„„ t o . c l ock » tv °Jl"'
"nor. of the next Sat u , d»v- iTd 7 .r , Y '
rh ii adc "v \
rciurmntr the foeriW !>3 t A. M l ..
*3- Fr<„ n Baltimore Xo An»*?r^V£ n '
Ml.iftftVZ ' Thenuilio
«gn» - ,he r,ida . y ' ai
d «« i-y fiv. thc 1
Iwye Annapohs every TnVri " Re "»«'n?,to
kht in «hfn,oZ7,L^t^ ,ord »'^
fame days by fi vc i u the
10" ind Nrwitnt, 10 ffftJLrttr • v
every Wrrfn M " m »'' 'O leave
mo'ninj, and al r vc'at'wi?' fo " r °' c,oc k >•> the
morning, »nd irr*e at SuWti , to' V four l 1 ,«
i by fix u the evening, lhc ncxt Th'Jtfday
172
In Noi*
From Halifax by UlttuitfeiUe, lVi!ti, nt Jio U „ :
and Oaile\s j to P ly-moulh, .once in twoweeks:—Thi
mail to leave Halifax every other Monday by fivt
o'clock in the morning, and arnve at Plymoutf
the next day by fix in the evening : Returning, t<
leave Plymouth the next Thursday by five in ih
morning, and arrive at Halifax on Friday by five
in the evening.
26. F'om Wilmington 10 FayettcviH: : The mail
Vi leeye Wilmington every Sundty, at lour in the
morning,and arnve the next day a! Fayettevili
by five in the alrerpooii: Returning, Fay.
eileville eveiy Tuesday, by four 111 (he morning,
arid airivf at Wijmingion the next day by five in
the afternoon.
n
tn Vt « c! NIA
Pr otosals will be received a! the Po(t-O3icc
in Ihcr'Thond, untilthc io:h dav.of November nrxt
inclulively, lor carrying the mail ot the United
States from Richmtri to frtateiUfn. —From :fle 151b
aav of the fame month,'until ibe full day rtf ]11 ru
1795. The mail 10 leave Richmond tvefv M,in
d'dy by fix in the iromipg, and arrive at Slaunlon
the next Wednrfday by fix in the evening: Re
turning, leave Stanhtriii every TbmTday at ten in
the forenoon, and jrrive 8t Richmond the next
Saturday by seven in (be evening.
Fhe persons offering jiropofals for .carry
ing this mail, are defirtd to -Ute the terms on
wb-chihey will eirry it, and leSve Richmond eve
ry Wedpefdayat noon, and .arrive W Staunton the
next Saturday by three in the afternoon : Ret«rn
i"£, leave Staunton every JVlondiv ; t 'rvi n in iSe
morning, and arrive at Richmond the next Wc d.
rwfdav by ten in the for; noon.
Note i. If during the continuance of the con
ra£h here pronofrd, any other times of arrival
nd departure of the mails jhpuld become necef
ftry, to preserve a j rripe'r connexion with othrr
nails, the contrasot s are ro conform to any ar
angement which for that purpose shall be made
hv the Post-Master General, such artang' m<nt not
leflening the number of hours abovq allowed tor
c«riymg the mails refpc£Hvely, without their con
<ent. . ,
2. A convenient time mat iefs thv minutes,
nor exceeding hall an "Hour,for opening and closing
a mail is to be allowed at each folt-Office,at which
, the time of its arrival irrd depattdn?" U "M>t herein
Ipecified.
3; F° r every half hour's deUy {unavoidable
accidents excepted) in arriving after the times Drc-j
fenbed in any contra#, .l!v, r coritra6lor to forfeit]
one dollar ; and for the non-performance of a trip,
doubie the sum which the value of one trip fhail
hear to the va'lue of the whole number of trips to
be performed.
4. The mail may be carried on any of the post
roads herein described, either in fts£e waggons or
on horses : but when the state of the roads pre
vems travelling in wag-gons with th<* nfceeflary ex
pedition, the mails are to be carried on horses.—
Every mail-.(rage mult have in it a box in which
the mail is invariably 'to be carried,:under lock
and key.
5• as well as letters, are to he
lent in the mails ; and if an v contractor wo;jld
wish tp be authorized to carry news-papers, other
than thqfe conveyed in the to the
22d fc£lion of the poft-office law) he must, in hx
proposals, Hate the refpe&ive sums for whichhe
will carry the mails uita and ivithoUt *he emolu
ments w fitch may aiife from such fepante
of news-papers.
NEW post ROADS,
in N t £w-York, Massachusetts & Vrrmont.
An extenfcon or the Polt having been de«
fired, froru CorinojorhairictoH'hites-Umjn, and thencc
to Kanandaiqua, m theftate of New-York ; from
tcckbridge to Bennington, in the ftatesof MafTacbu
fetts and Vermont; and from Rutland to WindJor %
and Rut/and to Fairhaven % in Vermont : Proposals
for carrying mails on those routs, (at the expense
of the contraaors) will bereceived at the General
Pod-Office, until the fifteenth day of November
next inclufivcjy.— Persons offering such proposals,
mud state the days and hours when they will 're-
ceive and deliver the mails at each place here
mentioned, and the length of time (w&ich cannot
exceed eight years) for which they will contraa.
The contraaors, refpe&ivelv, wiM have the ex
clusive privilege of carrying letters and packets on
thele toads, for htrc ; and be authorized to re
ceive, to their own ule, all the poUages which (hall
arise on letters, packets and newspapers by them
carried, at the rases cftablifhed by law ; but must
carry, free of postage, fuel) letters and. packets as
by law are, or (hall be declared/rrf.
For ever} houi's delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in delivering a mail, after the time a
°n ' CiDhrraabr to forfeit end dollar;
and for the nonperformance of a trip, one dollar
for eveiy ten miles diftauce, as far as the failure
extends.
The per Tons whom the contraaors (hall defig
na'e for Poftmaflers, on tbefe routes, — previous to
tin ir acting as fueh, mull be approved by the Port
. laitcr Genera), and take the oaths required by
aw. T hey are to agree for their com pensions
with the contractors, to whom alone thev are to
account for all the pofoges thev (hall receive.
I he fame oaths must be t<?ken by the contraaors
and theirriders who cairytbe mails.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
PoST-MASTs R-GENEK A L
John Gould,
. HAIR-DRESSER,
TNFOHMS his friends and the public in gen«-
> ral, that he continues tocarrv onhis hufinefr
-it No. I, South Third-Strcet, near
■ a. xet-jstrcet, and thanks hisformereuftomers
tor the favors he has received.
■ aid Gol ld has for sale, an infallible cure for
\V ea,; or Sore Eyes, which on trial, has and will
. , o< ' nd to anAver the purpose He has it in!
vials from one quarter of a dollar to it dollar—
Any perfbn trying the above, if not found to
anlwer the character given, the money will be
returned. r t( --j
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Of the vrry fiil> quality, and laicft impo.tatio,
Irom Canton, tia New-York, Lyrcui!,s.i
No. 19,
Ihird,between Cbefnui a rid Mar;c( S r :r?
I $rok«fs 'O&e:'
_N««s.(jrc* Dock-ftuw,-^.,^ 1 ?
TT'HBfcibfeobor intendiog.f» eomLi
r*.- ■VkUrely to thr PURTHAiir YT7 ""'<i
ON fOMMISSIp^B^I^ I
"" f'fv'C" t» K, s friend, klj "S'Wf#
«or h.» with thrir ra T y
. Ordersfiom Philadelphia Roll™
jU&S&+
LEONARD BLEECKER
M« y 5,
so the Public.
T H ™J" U r f<Tiber rttU " l, * m "» *fc(k
. "mpliments to his friend- , nH P V*
or the many favor, he ha, ,? an it"
leave to inform tliein that \> h ***
few fine toned ' 113 ias "Poni W d ,
Forte Pi an®,
aodwhich he
The great nuuiber of Forte p, , ,
Ful mfinuarion, of persons co. lA iffiooeVto
. t e re,U ! e of the European MBfsr-Bb.pt °- tnd
a mere trtflc, ajid fold for the fame
price as a.good mftroment, to the greatdifc
,po.„ tmentot the ignorant purchaser, Xj
| iierilly p 6 y, as much for re p airs , n P
N b mr®""! cost ** £ °° ri in «™.
. . B. MyprciL Ik.ST*uwtNTS let out b? Hie
month or quarter, 1 kewife Musical Inftresmts
tuned and repaired in the heft nuwr. a„d«
the most reftlonable term?, bv
. CHARLES TAWES,
[4t] N . Walnut, near Third-Street.
ioo Dollars Reward.
T OSTon Cambridge Common, Ma%h»ltti!
•~' on the "Tmoon of .he ißih uli. a Mo.two
POCKET-BOOK, with a ftMtliL conninin,
a number-os-valuable papers, amntig which nere
the M.OWISg PuBL-lc Stcus ITIES,vu
MalTaciiuletrs State Ndt«- No j. 4 «,
December i, 1782, payable 10 Thorn*,
lor £.53 ,«y. principal—Mo. 5:1.309, date* Tj.
•iuary_i, 1 785, payable 10 AifWW Partnjn, tor
£ 15 lOr. pi inctpal. —No <blra hnijrf
I, t Jai. army ootr) payable to T/fUIM Ht»-
urd y ror£ . 3 Bj. principal.,-Xo. ,'a Nats
(the number, da*, and to whom payable, nj:
known) for /,3 «r. principal—One Indent
Cerrifccate for Foor DolUft, and a New-Hano
fhire Certificate for about £.12 pavaWe to 7<*»
and Oanici J:nks ; also a number of Notes of Haod,
one of which was for given by AMat
Bond t o Samuel W. F6metoy\by whom it was tn.
dt>rh4) dau-d ill May, 1793, and pirabi* «tf*ir
1 ith following ; tnc others w*re aM payj
bie to the Subscriber, The Securities are chccW
*.t.the dmVrent officcs from whence they weit
issued, anti the Notes of Hard by rhe diff.frm
r igner?, they can therefore he of no usd m brtt
tiie owjier.
The Subfcriberheieby offers a reward 01 Om
H uxoßEt) Dollar i to any perfpn or pcrfom
who hasfobnd the fame, *»nd will retnnrthem *0
him, or leave them with the Printer hcteef,
no ijueftions will be asked.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Sd/em, \iaffachujctts % Augujl 1, 179 a. (cptfj
The SUBSCRIBERS to the
Universal Tontine
Arc informed, that a general meeting is to beheli
at the Statc-Houfe in this city, on Saturday tj)c jjl
day of Xovbmber next, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
agreeably to the sixth article of their affociarion.
By order "of tire Agents,
EBENEZLR HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Sept. 15, 1792. (cpiNj)
Universal
Hymn Book
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON,' «nd other
.Bookfcllers in Philadelphia,
AColle&ion of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS; felt-fird from diffcreot
Authors, published by Order of the Co»-
vention holding the Do&rine of the Salvation of
all Men, met in Philadelphia, Ma? 25* i 7$ J *
Priceof a single book, bound, 3- Bth» of a Dollar,
with goo*d allowance tQ those who lakecjuwiurt.
Anjroft 4. f^f.)
PLANS
OF Tlf t
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DODSON, LAREY, YOUNG, QJU
BOWEVs FXHIBITION OF
Wax-Work & Paintings,
AT the House lately occnpied by Mrs. Pin**
in now ready for tbe en
tertainment of the Public.—Among ■ P" ea£
variety of Painting?, are a number of
ITALIAN '& FRENCH PIECES,
•which are new and very pleafuig«
Also, a collection of
NEW WAX FIGURES.
The' Exhibition is open every day, from nine
o'clock in the morning, imril nine in the even
ing. Admittance Half a Dollar for La * s
and Gentlemen, and hatjprice for Children
Tickets for the feafen, (not transfer
Two Dollars.
For Safe, at the Exhibition P (
IJKENBSStBS of the > RESIDENT of Ue
UNITED STATES, in V. >X,
3d a vr.- iety of* Elegant PRINTS in fr**" l
S=rt. -I. ' M