-ri-n navc nv 7/7H/V FEN\ T 0 No. 6q. HIGH-STREET, PHILADEL
yi NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS 70//* Ffc* > </. 9 _
[No. 17, of Vol. IV.j
FROM THE FEDERAL GAZETTE.
PUBLISHED *Y REQUEST
A SECOND ESSAY
ON THE
ISLAND navigation
between TH! rivers of
SUSWEHAWVAH ANn SCHL'YLKILK.
THE Remarks (m Dun'.ao's piper <i! Joiv ■;j
on my plan of c»nftru6ting the Inlir.d Navi
gation between tlv Sufquehannah atld Sclluyli.ll!,
has done what every man ought to do, v. i>o has
thai most intercftme concern at heart—l. e. be has
published the objeaions i.-> my plan which occur
red to him ; for 'tis certainly bett-r to forefee ob
jedtions, than to meet them unexpefteJly in the
courle of the work. .
For the fame reason 'tis iny duly to obviate those
ofcirftions it I fairly can, that we may not he dif-l
couragid by an appearance of obftarles, which
either do not exill, or may be easily removed or
avoided.
The Remarker firfl obfervcs, that 't» not cei
tain that there isa quantity of water near themrr.-
dl* ground, fufhcicr.t for the navigation, without
I ving recourse to Furnace Creek and other dtl
t 11 waters, which will require great expense, and
t ■ off the water from many watered meadows,
vi .h mull injure the owners of iliem.
1 arifwer, 1. 'Tis the decided opinion of those
who have been molt on the ground, and are best
acquainted wiih the futjeft, that there is a plenti
ful fuflkiency of waier near the crown land for
every nccdTary purpose.
2. But if a recourle to the dilbnt waters should
be expedient, even this is a very happy resort, and
the expence and fpoil.ng some watered meadows
are ohjrfts so small, that (hey bear not the lead
proportion to the infinite advantage of the great
concern.
But 3. The objeftion-with refpeft to the wa
tered meadows is real in but a very small degree ;
for the use of water on meadows is neaily confin
ed to the fore part of the year, previous to the
crops, at wh cii fcafon the waierwill not be want
ed in the canal ; that supply canor.lv be neceff ry
in the low state of the springs, which dots not
faappen till the fall of the year.
2. The Remarker next goes on :o observe, that
the inclined plane is used in Europe, by ma
chines which are woiked by hand without water ;
this is doubtless an argument in favor of the in
clined plane-, in cafe ihcte fiiould ever happen a
failure of water, but I suppose he doi s not mean
to fugged the expediency of working the machines
bv hind, when there is watef enotigh 10 carry
them ; in fbort we have no occasion to look for
expedients of what may or can be done without
water because 'tis a moll undoubted certainly,
that we can command water enough through the
vear for the tranfmifiion of a thousand boals a
day, of 40 tons each. This I conceive will be
quite enough for the present generation, and il
posterity should need more, we will leave them
to look for it, or to contrive ways and means of
domg without it.
3. The Remarker goes on to the diffi
«uhv of securing the water woiks and machinery
agamft frifhes and inundations, to which they
will be exposed ; but I conceive thi> is no greater
thanocours in all grift-mdlsor oth-r water works,
•which stand on the fame ftream,snd is too trifling
to deserve notice.
4. The Remarker goes on so recommend Mr.
Arthur Donaldfon's newly invented balance lock ;
1 admit this is an ingenious device, but is liable to
some small objections which I wilh the Remarker
so obviate.
1. The fchcnie bangs large czffoons (filled with
water, and into which the boats are to he drawn)
on to ihe arms of strong timbers like the dishes ot
a scale, which timber* aic lo vibrate on pivots like
scale beams, so that when one caffoon rises, the
other will fink, like the opposite diihes of a scale—
So far is verv well, but
2. 1 conceive the difficulty will be in hauling
the boats into and out of the caffoons, for in or
der to do this, the furface of the water in the caf
foons mult be on a level with the water in the
ponds or canals with which they must communi
cate ; but I conceive this level cannot be obtained,
for
g. The eaffoons must be of 3 or 4 feet height,
and of course the furface of the included water
will be then much higher than the bottom of the
caffoon, and when the lower caffoon finks foas to
touch the water below, it will go no further, tor
if it finks into the water, it will be buoyed by it,
and of course will be lightened so as not to retain
guvitation enough to raise the opposite caffoon
which hangs in the air, and of course they will
boih Hop; thelowtrone some feet above, and
the upprr '>ne equally below the furface of the se
veral ponds with which they must communicatc
before the boats can be hauled in or out of the
eaffoons.
4. Tnis plan requi ea an evcrlaflin;; equality of
furlace of water ir. the two ponds, both above and
below the dams over which ihe boats are to be
conveyed, lor the civo s on which the brfianc
beams iibrate fixed points, if you raise or
lower the furface or floor on which the dilhes reft,
you nrcclfaiily exali or depress the extreme end*
or aims ot the balance beams,either of which will
total'y dcAiov the operation of this plan, becaufc
it will unavoidably raise or depress the caffoon>
above or t»eiow the furface ot the ponds with'
wh'chthcy must communicate, either to recent
in or di£chatge the bests; but such equality c»
Saturday, July 28, 179 2 -
fuiface can cever be obtained, for frefties will
raise, and droughts will dqprffs thofc fuifaces,
cnaugre all hoinao attempts.to prevent it.
If all these objections be got over, I
object further to the great complexity of the plan,
and the numerous difficult equations efiential to its
oprratior. and which mult be supported with
great-ejta&nefft, or the execution and use mult tail,
' Whereat the inclined p]<me and its machinery is
simple as a grift-mill, or even a cutlcr's gi ind
il.me and wheel ; is liable to none of the above:
objea«ons, and >s not atfrftrd by any different
heiftlulft or furtaces ot water, except extreme
rrefhes, which may perhaps futpeud the machi
nery a day or two 'till the water abates; this plan
i manifestly and intuitively practicable to the lar-
amount of fc»le or extent that can be necel
iiry ; is equally adapted to boats of all sizes, Irotl
the largest to the foialleft, winch can be requ.ieo*
because the force can be adjusted to any quantity;
requiflte by increasing or diminifhii-g the water
let on to the wheel.
After all I perfcftly agree with the Remarkefj.
that Mr. Donation's plan and mine, and all ih<
reft proposed, ought lo be submitted to athial a
pcriment, under the dircftioi\of their feveial iu-s
ventors, which is really the only true telk• ot a«i
inventions ol ihia fort.
The Remarket proceed* to object to my method
of condu&ing the navigation along the bed of ihe
creeks, and prefer* artificial canals n» order u»
avoid inundation, ice, See. See. which he think
the moll dangerous part of the whole concern, on
which permit me to observe : i. That the dig
ging a canal hxty miles in length, and large
enough for the purpote, will be the work o*
years, and
2. When done, will almost instantly henlcd
up again, unless it is all the way lin'd with wood,
or malonry, and pallages every where made under
or ovei it, to carry oil the deluges ot water, melt-;
ed snow, leaves weeds, See. which will frtquemly
come pouring down Irom the higher lands above
it ; and after all we can't be with ceitainty guard
ed against undermining the fides and bot
tom, which wiltoccafion a vail übforphon cl wa
ter and probably carry oft large fpvces of the
works, and leave such holes and cavuies, as will
render repairs very expensive if not impracticable ;
the feveiity of froft, quantities of snow and delu
ge sos rain,the looknc'.s of the foil and poious na
;ure of the limeilone lands (:o all which ihe coun
try is every wheie fubjts) indicate all theic efFc. cts
and leave us no reason to tlut we can avoiti
I their aflual corifequence.
3. The natural beds of the Creeks are free from
all tbefe ineonvenences, th<*re is ltd otfngcfiVtkl
curient in the middle of any nullpoud »n the
higheit frclhes, and at the head and loot of every
dam (at one hundredth part of the expence of the
artificial canal) weean make piers and quays fut
ficient to secure the boats againfl any danger ol
floods or ice in the highetl frefbea that ever hap
pened ; the namral beds of the cretks have sup
ported the waters of them from the beginning of
ihe world, and will to the end of u ; our naviga
tion along these beds will lie from river to river,
through a course of dead ponds with little current
to incommode, and none to endanger '.he boa:.s.
4. There will be large room for all vessels to
pass and repafs, and all such to lie at anchor or
haul afliore, as may have occasion to stop either
for business or repairs.
5 In this way we can enlarge tne navigation
to any degree we pleafc, for if one set of ways and
machinery over the dams is not futftcieni ; we
may add two, three, four or five additional ones,
which may all be used at one, and the fame nine,
if the quantity of conveyance fhail make them ne
cefTary, and when we confidei that the proposed
navigation is defign'd for the principal communi
cation between a country of two jhoufand miles
extent and the Sea, we may soon expett to have
applications from an infinite number of boats, and
therefore ought to calculate our works on the
lar~cft scale to accomodate them.
6. The inclin'd plane and machinery will fit a
high dam equally as well as a low one, so that if
anv circumflances require some dams to be made
higher than others (which may probably be the
cafe) no inconvenience can follow ; for any bo2ts
in this wav can pass a dam of 20 feet high, as well
as one ot 6, 8, or 10 feet.—Some people have oh
j <fted to high dams because they flow meadow s,
out this is so trifling when compared to the im
portance of the great concern, that it vanifhrs in
to nothing—l don't conceive it will ever be ne
ceflary to draw the boats with horses, but if that
mode (hould be adopted, 'tis as easy to make a
horse load by the fide of the millpond as by the
Canal.
In fine the plan and execution of the works]
ought to embiace principl s of the greatest ftrcngth
and duration that the future trade may not be in
terrupted by decays or breaking ol the works and
repairs, and ought also to he calculated on the
gieatcft extent and scale poffihle that they may be
adequate to the vast, the iinmenfe occafious of
them.
Further I conccivc the plan and direflion must
be the work of one mind, divided councils and
opinions will coufume much time, introduce
inconsistency, and rum the uniformity of the
whole.
On tiir whole a good plan, grounded on prin
ciples of natural fitnefs, and a good beginning,]
with a g,ood choice of workmen, are half the
work. What remains is prudence, diligence, and
uniform perTevf ranee,ail ihefe will soon expedite
the works, and produce a happy conclusion.
A CITIZLN OF Philadslfhia
PkiuJ. July o, 1792
65
LONDON, May 23.
■t\7HEN the Stocks rife, and pro
VV visions are cheap, these are ad
duced as infallible proofs of the wrf
dom and virtue ot Mr. Pitt's adini
niftration. Stocks have now fallen
eight per cent, provisions are at an
exorbitant price, and these too, are
cited as proofaof the wifdomand vir
tue of Mr Pitt's Adminillratioii.
There is a forgery handing about,
under the title ot Resolutions, from
the Society at Norwich, in which
itbey are tngtniaufly made to declare,
that " they «re aflbciijted together
Ito procure an equal dirtributioii of
landed property."
IRKL AND-
Accounts were yellerday received
from the North of Ireland, of an un
fortunate dispute between the Pro
testants and the Catholics. The lat
j ter were going in procession to a fu
neral, with arms and colours flying.
The Protestants insisted on the co
lours being lowered, which tlie Ca
tholics relufed, and a general en
gagement took place. The Catholics
being defeated, rallied next day with
additional force, and their opponents
were defeated in their turn, owing
chiefly to a deficiency of ammunition.
Several perl'ons were killed on both
(ides.
Natter Tandy has fubpocnaed the
Speaker of the House of Commons,
and clcarly intends to profecuie the
Privy Counsellors who signed the
Proclamation offering a reward for
apprehending him.
FIRE AT BARTON STAGEY.
Some people being at work at Mr.
Moody's shop, finith and edge-tool
maker, a large flake of red hot iron
flew out of the shop window, and fal
ling om some dry litter irear a cucum
ber-bed, set it iiiftantly on fire. This
communicating to an adjoining mill
houf'e, covered with thatch, where a
horse was at work, the whole in a
few minutes was in flames.
These premises being fnuated at
the northern extremity of the parish,
the wind high, awd blowing in a di
rect line with the flreet, carried the
thatch like a fibrin of fire, fwifter
than a man could run, from one house
to another, till the whole village was
in flames !
At one instant twenty feveti houses,
thirteen barns, ten ilables, several
granaries, and four ricks of capital
wheat, were in Hamts. The thatch
upon several extensive garden walls
was completely burnt up, with a
great number ef waggons, carts,
threshed and unthrefhed corn, twen
ty-eight pig s » 3 great quantity ot
poultry, and all the furniture and
entire property of great numbers of
poor people, who are reduced to the
utnioft penury.
Farmer Friend, at the advanced
age of lixty, perished in going up
itairs after his money. He was fnp
posed to have about four hundred
guineas in a coffer, which he said he
was determined to save, or pcrilh in
the attempt. He had no sooner reach
| ed the top of the Itairs, than the roof
fell in upon him.
Norwich has been the fceneof some
disturbances, occasioned by the ad
vance in the price of butcher's meat.
The people were very turbulent on
Saturday lalt, but were pretty well
appeased on Sunday, though with
threats of allembling again next Sa
turday, unlets some remedy is ap
plied to this growing and opprcfiive
evil.
The Masquerade at Ranelagh on
Tuesday night, was splendid and ele
gant —the supper plentiful—the wine
good—Slid all that ; —but of mirth
and characters only a finall fprink
| ling appeared. The Prince of Wales
MASQUERADE.
[Whole No, 539-J
and the Dtike of Clarence, (witii a
lady as their f>rnt(gte,eon<fr<owr whom
mucli has been unavailiitglv faitl) en
tered the dillipatrd circle about one,
and llaid for two or three hours.
The whole number present whs, we
suppose, between 12 and 1500, many
of whom iiayed till li>ng aher ihe
grey dawn had warned them-to retire.
The rotunda was not cleared till all
the good citizens of London were at
breakfalt. An ode was performed in
horvor of the Duke of Yolk's nupti
als ; but amid the din of faihionable
folly, neither the words nor the mn
■ fie had much attention paid to them.
Dialogue at tTie late mafquerpde, be
tween his R H tbc P
of W and a Malk.
There was a Malk in a doini
no, with a jewel of considerable va
lue, though uiore than half concealed,
pendant on the left fide oi the bread.
This Ma/k, from Lite lime the V——
entered the room, kept watching far
an opportunity of to l;is
R —H- At length Ceiling up
on a momentary interval between
I the wit and folly of the palling throng*
it just twitched his fiepvq, to make
hi in look about, then taking Jiiat fa
miliarly under the right arm, aud
walking on, addrelled hiuviu a point
ed manner, though in gentle accents
n the following lines :
" A Tout!) amongst t'.ie foo)iili youth', I fp'.ed,
" Who took nQIJ*CTii Wtfim for Uis guide :
" From Vntuc's paths lwjw far he want aftrav,
" Will Hand recorded, on some-suture day,
" In Britifli annals."
The P with, a fideglance,vie w
ed ihe ft ranger with an inquif'uive
look, laying,
p. And who the dnce are you f
Ma|k No metier who, for lam the
profefl'ed /idvocate of facrcd Wtfdom
and Virtue ; but grown weary with
pleading an unfuccefsful eaule, 1 adt
at present in the capacity of Chamber
Counsel, and give the belt advice as
often as it is alked.
p. Then you adt like a gentleman
of under-(landing ; or rather, I should
fay (in a fort of hals-whisper) a gen
tlewoman, for, upon my foul, 1 lake
you to be of that sex.—Will you ta
vor me with your addre(s ?
Malk—That is altogether uiniecef
fary, my , for whenever your
ft k finds leifnre and incli
nation for a consultation of that na
ture, you will find thecounter-pan of
my jewel here, ill the l'«cret recedes
of your own good heart ; take but
the trouble to leareh lo far*
The mask instantly difappcared.and
was seen no more tiie whole night ;
but the P- w as observed to lold
his arms for a few moments, before
his attention could be roused by the
extravagance of a buffoon, who had
been some time exerting his ingenui'
y to attract the P B notice.
ADVERTISEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
Wanted Three fhoufand fx hundred
andfijty Engravers to enable the Edi
tors of great and splendid works now
printing in England, to complete
their engagements with the public in
I less than half a century.
No enquiries will be made as to
their abilities, and they are wanted
in all branches escepc that of the
flroke, which is too difficult, too tedi
ous, and too expensive for the traffic
of the liberal art. Stippling, tinting,
dotting, and scraping, as they require
neither time nor genius, will be pre
ferred.
N. B. A premium will be gi«en to
any ingenious mechanic for the in
vention of a poligraphic engine thac
would lefsthat 100 plates
at a time, to go, or rather to grind by
(team, by water, or by wind. A wind
mi'A would be preferred, as it would
save the expence of adveriifing.ft O ME, April 20.
THE departure of the Pope for
themarihes ofPomini took place
on the 26th infh It is his cuftotn
once a year to vifttthofe works,which
have now been, a long time carrying
on, in order to restore ro fertility and
cultivation an immense extent of
uiarfl]v and unhealthy territpry.
VIENNA, April 15.
At the departure of Monlieur de
B ifchoffs werder for Berlin, the fol
lowing refolutitrtis were agreed to, on
the part of his Apostolic Majelty and
the King of Pruflia.
r. Plati of operation against France,
• condotfied'by the Dnk-e of Brunfwick,
fettled by Prince Hohenloe, and mu
tually adopted.
2. Letters of requefl: so be addreiP
ed to all the Princes of the empire,
who are able to grant supplies of men,
and the meafOres furnifhing iheir
contingent to beprevioully detertnin-j
ed.
3. Circular letters to all the pow
ers of Europe, who concur in the sen
timent of fupporiing the Monarchi
cal government of France ; elpecialJy
to the Courts of Ruflia, Sweden, Prill-j
fia, Spain, Naples, Sardinia and Swit
zerland.
Thefc letters propose—a full.refti
tution of the Comtat of Avignon to|
the Pope—a perfedt restoration of'the*
rights of the German Princes land-j
holders in Alfaceand Lorrain—A full l
homage to be paid by ihe people of,
trance to his Mod Christian Majesty,
as Monarch of France.—An invitation
to all the Powers of Europe, to in
duce them to contribute all in their
power toward the accornplifhment ofi
these end 3. j
The march of our troops continue
•with the utmost expedition ; and our
araiy in the Netherlands amounts al
ready to 70,000 men.
St. PETERSBURG, April 20.
Intelligence is received of Captain
Billings, who is employed in contin
uing to make discoveries for Rulfia
in the South Seas. This navigator
during the year 1790, surveyed those
clulters of islands denominated the]
Kourilis and Aloutes, where he has
disco vered many new species of plants
—proper for the luftenance of manj
and bead : Happy discoveries ! and
a thousand times more ufefol to man
than thqfe political systems which
disturb, and will for a long time dis
turb the peace of this little restless
quarter of the globe, called Europe.
BASIL, (Switzerland) May 3.
The ariftocrais of this country are
constantly giving the reins to their
imagination in order to render odi
ous the patriotic fpiric in France.
The words propagande and Jacobins
have, through their influence, a fort
of talifmanic effetft, and entirely faf
cinate the eyes as well as the under
standing. They contrive a creed of
the French political faith by their
own fire-fides, and then fct about a
busing it as if it were the real consti
tution.
BRUS SELLS, May 6.
On the third of the present month
were marched into this city a nuni
berofFrench prisoners, together with
a long train of carriages, bringing in
the firft fruits of conquest over the
frrench, among which are, one how
itzer, four pieces artillery, called la
Modefte.la Timide, rEcorcheufe,/the
hide-flayer) and la Martiale, with co
hered waggons, travelling forges,&c.
In regard to the attack upon Mons,
the Austrian accounts are as follow ■
that besides five four pound pieces of
artillery, and a ten pounder howitz
with their carriages, &c. there were
taken from the French several forges,
tor the put pose of heating their balls
red hot, to be discharged against
Mons ; a large quantity of hay and
oats, and warlike stores of every
kind: the prisoners were one lieute
nant-colonel, two other officers, and
eighty-nine men. The whole loss of
•the' French was cftimared at 400 men
Killed 111 the attack and purfutt.
May 18
Intelligence has been just received
jiere, that live little town of Bavay
between Valenciennes and Meuburre'
was yelterday taken by the Auftrians'
JoS men, with 4 officers, who were
there ported, tnade prifoiiers.
Tills government lias received an
account, tliat general Sztaray, who
had been quartered at Charlcroy, to
waich the movements of iVI. de la Fay
ette's army, having understood that a
large detachment was polled at a
place ealled F lotenne, at no great
distance from PliilipviJJe, he resolved
to attack it, though his force was
much inferior; M. de Gouvion's num
bers being eltimated at seven thou
sand, and thof'e ot General Sztaray at
[ but three. The French, after an ob
stinate refiftance,in the end gave way,
leaving ijo dead, several wounded,
three pieces of cannon, and all their
baggage and ammunition ; the loss
of the Auftrians was four killed, and
twenry-two wounded. No uiorei par
ticular cii cuinftances of this j>ctio:
are as yet received
PARIS, May 10,
! By a letter from Cologne, dated
die jrh ot May, we are informed,that
the Prnifian army is certainly on
March in two columns, confiding each
of 20,000 men. The firlt is command
ed by the Duke of Brnrrfvvick, and
the second by the Prince-Royal of
Pruifia.
LONDON, May 29
The London Gazette contains a
• proclamation, forbidding any of bis
J Majetty's fubjetfs serving at sea any
(foreign power, or fining out priva
teers againll any ; also notice of the
| marriage of Prince Maximilian of
DreCden, with the Princess of Parma ;
the delivery of the Queen of Naples
of a Prince, and the appointment of
Sir Lucas Pepys, as physician in ordi
nary to his Majesty, on the death of
Sir Noah Thomas.
A -report isgprevalent in the higher
circles, that the Duke of Portland,
with all bis interest, means to atS in
future with the Mini Her.
Lord Thurlow is likely to continue
the Seals, though not to ad as a Ca
binet Minister, for fonie time ; a cer
tain personage having requeued him
to hold them until he had gone thro'
all his decrees on causes completely
heard.
The city of London yesterday vot
ed an address of thanks to the king
for his proclamation
Very considerable improvements
are to be made in the Light-houses
along the coast. The Parent Lamps
are to be generally adopted, and the
North-Foreland Light-house is to be
heightened twenty-two feet. I
Last week Capt. Kartwell made a
farvey of the, Light-houses upon the
coast of Kent and Suflex, 111 conse
quence of which the above important
alterations are to rake place.
On Friday the 2 ;th inft. in the 74th
yeat Of his age, died, the RiehfHon
GEORGE BRIDGES RODNEY, Lord
Rodney, Baron Rodney, of Rodney
Stoke. Somerfetfliire, Baron and K.B
an Admiral of the White, and Vice
Admiral of England ; his Lordlhip is
succeeded in title and elfate by his
el deft ("on, the Hon. Geotge Rodney
who married, April roth,~i 7 S 2) Mar
tha, daughter of the Right Hon. Al
derman Harley, and his i(Tue.
In honor of the memory of Lord
Rodney, several veflelsinthc Dock
had their colours half mart.
Lord Rodney, on the morning of
his death, walked out in the 1110 ft per
fect health, returned todrefsfor din
ner about four o'clock, when he re
ceived a parylytic stroke, and expired
aliiioli instantaneously !
A most alarming discovery was made
at a Bali-Room in Bath, a few nlglvs
ago—One of the company was pvilty
of being a tradesman—the conflifion
was general, and the delinquent was
deltred to withdraw, to prevent the
Ladies from falling into hyflcrics.
Extract oj a leter from Paris, Jpril 25
" A robber and aflaifin was this
a t I ex P er ' etl ce the fatal
e.tetn of the new machine for the ex
ecution of criminals. He was secure
ly bound to an upright pillar, which
turning upon a binge laid him in a
horizontal position with his head in
a kind of aperture like that of a pil.
°<-y. Ibe boards that confined his
head were double to admit between
t lem a blade of enormous weight
w ich rufiling down upon an inclined
plane divided the neck with certain
and lnftantaneoiis efFert, and no doubr
66
without mucli fenfatioh of pain to
the fufFerer. A halket placed before
him received ths bead ; the bleeditig
trunk was again eretfted, and both
were immediately fentaway. Though
there is something awful in this pun
ilhment, the populace wbo cooly dif
cufled its merits, said " they (hould
relish it better than hanging." The
honor of the invention being due to
M. Guillotin, physician, political wri
ter, and a diltinguifhed member of
the fir ft aflembly, it is universally
called the Guillotine. Could his n>o-
defty, however, have forefeen that
he should go by this road to immor
tality, it is much to be doubted
whether he would have availed him
felf of ihe versatility of his talents.'*
BRITISH SARCASMS
The ridiculous condntft of the
French, seems fully to juftify one se
vere tarcafm the late King of Prulfin
addrefled to the Marquis de Valori,
the French Anibafl'ador, in the Opera
House of Berlin The curtain from
lome obltacle not rising higher than
to shew the legs of the performers—
Frederick exclaimed " Monsieur de
Valori—you now fee the French go
vernment, many legs and no heads !"
■ " He that fights and runs away,
May live to fight another day," fays
Kudibras—but the French heroes out
do him quire—by running away with
out fighting !
Yesterday morning the renowned
Thomas Paine, stole off from this me
tropolis without beat of drum. LI
BERTY, being the very foul of the
rights of man, Thomas hesitated not to
take the freedom of giving his sureties
— teg bail; and of efcapingfrom Bai
liffs—Conftables—Jailors—and, mod
probably, from Jack Ketch himfelf—
'* Ah ca ira, ca ira, ca ira J"
DOVER (N. Ham.) July 5
We are informed from good au
thority that a Canal is to be dug
from Winnepifiiokee pond to unite
the waters with Cochecho river and
tha; a fubferiptron is filling for that
purpose—and we hear that a gentle
man of property in Port/mouth, has
offered joal. towards the undertaking
—and considering the rage for Canal
! cutting—it will be accomplished with
ease—as 'tis said, that the water in
the pond at the time of the great
frefhet, a few years since overflowed,
and found their way into Cochecho
river.
ALBANY, July 19.
Gentlemen who reside on ihe Mili
tary Lands, in the county of Herke
nier, inform us, tliat that tratl of
country contains avery great propor
tion of rich land, well watered, and
timbered-—T hat there is already a
considerable number of settlers there,
and that'it bids fair to people as ra
pidly as any part of America—That
16 bushels of fait are daily manufac
tured at Maj. Danforth's works, at
the Salt-Springs—and that Mr. Isaac
Van Vleck, formerly of Kinderhook
is erecting other works at the fame
place, for carrying on the likemauu
ladory—That, whenever fufHcient
works flial 1 be erected at these Springs
a thousand bushels of fait can be made
every day—That it now fells there at
five /hillings per bushel— That iis
[ weight is about j6lb. to the bufhe! ;
and equal in quality (bv the lb.) to
that of Turks-Jfland— That the fal
mon-fi/hery in that country, must be
come an objetf of great importance
as that fine fifli (the salmon) abounds
in their lakesand rivers, in ihe spring
and fall that it is not uncommon for
a party to spear 20 or qo in an even
nig, from 14 to 3 olb. each—that if
the nvers were cleared and seines
made use of, some thousand barrels
m'glit be caught in a season—that
they are equal r„ ,he salmon of Cnn
i)ec r ticut river—That a boat loadH
with fait, going t» Niagara, where it
« 24S- per luifhel, was lately
seized by the Britifli at Ofwego.
GEORGE-TOWN, July 21.
On Sunday last the Prefidenr of the
piTMJ fV" a, rived il-1 lhis citv
I hiladelphia, and on Tuesday set out
tor his .Seat at Mount Vernon
On Monday and Tuefdav last the
President of the United States, and
the Couimiffioners of the Federal
Buildings, examined the plans for a
Capitol, and Present's IJoufe, to be i
Cr;<T£eil in tiie r; v rf \t- «.•
building, were presented The T
»M.im for the Left p )an of
t.ent s House, was adjudged to James
Hoben from Cbarlefton, South*
■ olina, but no decision was ™iv en i„
favor 0 f any pJan for a Capitol-,three
«r four of luperior merit are
confide, at.on, and it is expend Z
tbeCommiffioners.at their next men
mK (the iff of Augurt) will then make
their election.
wAS HI NGT 0 N (N. C.) J„| y j.
On Wednesday ]alt, abont midnighf, a fin
broke out in the ftbre of Mr. Peter cWo
ed rteTwHl' ' e i? e 7 llrin!? e ' lement soon r «cl'-
« velf r e h,C i ,it tota,l - v coo! " u ™ei
1 th . e fcfchen and other o« iioifc
The most vigorous efforts of the inhabitant
were ,n <ran> everted. The houfc of Mr. Da
v.d Shoemaker, and that of Mr. David foneV
Mr cLl P ' rCy tothe „ fla J mes ' The Ul
ed funher damage! which prevent-
NEWBURYPORT, July ,g.
Several Newspapers of the pad and prifent
reek have prematurely mentioned Mr. Perkins
t this town being sent for to Philadelphia for
he purpose of superintending the coinage there
• Perkins' abilities in that line are fully ade-'
piate to such an appointment, as the fpecimeiw
e has exhibited in that line amply tefttfV —
nftead of the former method of performing th:
lufinels, he has invented a new machine,-wliicii
uts the metal into such circular pieces a? are
vanted, and gives the impression at the fame
ime—its motion is accelerated by a balance,
fheei, and more than one third of the time
md labor thereby saved—He hasalfoconftruft.
d another machine, of his own invention, for
lulling or lettering the edge, bv which a boy
an mill fixtyeach minute— Were it foind ne
.eil'ary, he could apply steam to perform all the
noft laborious part of the bufineft. But what
sos more importance, and will be found to be
as more public utility than all the foregoing, is,
a Check, which he has invented, for discover
ing Counterfeits—this is so contrived, as that
one eighth of a minute is fufficient to deter
mine, without the poflibility of a mistake, whe
ther a piece, of money is genuine, or not ; and
any town or merchant can be supplied, at a
small expense, with said Checks, and then reft
allured that an imposition will be absolutely im
pollible.
BOSTON, July i 3.
Concentrating the various public ofHces in
tate-Street, is a measure that very much ac
celerates business, and of cour/e is greatl.v ad
vantageous to the commercial and manufac
turing interests of the town—But the benefit of
the measure does not flop here—the repairs and
ornaments of the buildings add much to the
beauty of the street; and must impress foreign
ers, who enter' the town from the water, with
lavorable ideas of its wealth and confequertce.
Among; the ornaments above alluded to, a
| very bandfome one was added a few days f.nce
over the door of the Poft-Office. It is a wing
ed Mercury, in the ad of bounding from a
Globe, supporting his Caduceus in his left hand,
and holding ?n his right a letter directed to
u Russell, Esq. Merchant, Boston—per
post"—conveying a handsome compliment to
[ cbe mercantile interest of the town, and to one
of its principal supporter?. The execution of
the work was by Shillings—and mentioning that,
precludes the necessity of facing it is elegantly
done.
ANECDOTE.
Inflancesof honour and koncjly a*'e worthy <Jf
record ior the imitation and gratification of
mankind.—About a fortnight fince,a gent'eman
of this State in travelling from the southward
near Fairfield, Connecticut, loft a pocket-book
containing much property. The stage was
stopped some time that search might be made,
but the earch proved in vain. At night, how
ever, after the gentleman who fuffercd the loss
was asleep, he was awakened by a countryman,
who inquired, if he had loft a pocket-book—and
being fatisfied with the replv, told the gentle
man he had found it. Elated at the news, tiie
gentleman sprang from his bed, and having re
ceived the pocket-book, requeued the man who
found it to take any fuin for his trouble he
pleated—but he declined. The gentleman then
off?red him Thirty dollars ; which was also re
fused— as was troctit\-jive, and twcvt —the coun
tryman obfervinn;, that his expectations were
not great, and that four or five do'lars would
filly fatisfv him.for his trouble. The centle
man, almost vexed at the scrupulous feelings of
the man, inilfted that unlefshetook twenty dol
lars he should have nothing-*—but in vain. At
length, however, after much intrcatw he was per
suaded to accept of fifteen—but he declared,
that he did it with reluctance, as the labourand
trouble he iiad taken, were not worth the mo
ney; and that he couM noS in conference, but
give the child who picked up the book, two
thirds thereof.
THE EFFECT OF COVETOUSNESS;
or a warning to Ml 5 er s,
WE are informed by Valerius Msximu'—
that whep Hannibal had besieged Caflilimini,
ind reduced the garrison, for want of provision,
to the last extremity, a fold'er happened to
4atch a half-ftar-ved pjoufe, and hi", co ve tonfne js
jfcceeding his hunger, ■ e fold it to one of hi*
comrades for e'eve flerUng; which
roved a f bar; •r • ■ for he who bo t
Ue"*n->n ? >, ftved ' by t e purchase, while
- r e who fold it died til hunger.For the GAZETTE cj the UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
I HAVE been hitherto a silent observer of t'.ie
petulance displayed by the writers in the-
National Gazette, in conducting an oppolition to
the measures of the general government, and
its real friends; but their want of candor and
decency has proceeded to such a length, that I
mult now request a place in your paper for the
following remarks:
It appears evident from circumstances, and
the general complexion of the publications in
the National Gazette, that it is only the tool of a
faction, and the prostituted vehicle of party
spleen and oppolition to the great principles of
order, virtue and religion. The virulence and,
scurrility of the writers are truly chara&eriibc;!
but I could not have Itippofed them quite so
weak as they appear to be.. Do they imagine
that their puffing artifice in magnifying their
influence 011 the public mind has escaped detec
tion? Can they suppose that the cry of danger
which they have let up, has diliurbed the re
pole of the citizen ?, who feel their happiness,
;i.nd will not be bullied out of it?
The effrontery of these men is now so brazen,
that it glares upon every eye. The charge
which they make against others, recoil so
itrongly upon the/rtfeives, that nothing but
hackneyed prostitution can prevent them from
feeling it. Are they not, for example, the very
hirelings which they insinuate that others are?
Is not one of them profededlv retained in pay
under a department of the vCTy government
which they oppose ? Do they not difcovcr a spi
rit of intrigue, and that dark designing envy'
which sickens at superior abilities and fame in
others; While the National Gazette is pretended;
to be republican in its complexion, do not the
publications in it uniformly contradict the ge
nuine principles of liberty, by attempting to en
force the opinions of a junto, as those which are
to be of decisive authority with the nation, and
the wiih of the minority as that which is to
controul the majority?— They bellow loudly for
tSe Liberty of the Press; but, examine the
National Gazette, and fee if any thing in favor of
our national government is admitted into it,
while nothing against it appears to be refufed ;
and measures evidently calculated for the public
good are wilfully misrepresented, as in the cafe
of the poft-office law, merely to serve the pur
poses of party.
It is high time, Mr. Fenno, that the maJk
-vere torn from the faces of these profefled
iric:: di, but real enemies of the United States,
that their true features may be seen—they
ought to be freely and fairly exposed to the
view of the world, that the public may be no
longer deceived by the ridiculous affectation of
those hypocritical republicans, those pretended
advocates for the liberties of the people.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
THE fame person who is Editor to the " Na
tional Gazette," receives a friary from
Government, for jiis Cervices as Tianilator.—
I suppose it is not disputed, that his service in
that duty answers its demand and expectation;
if ft>, surely there that bufinefi ends, and he, as
Editor to his press, left free (as I hope and ex
pect was always intended by government, as
well as himiif.j Hut Mr. T. L. from lome
idea, compared with himlelf, fecms to think
otherways Perhaps he will thank some one to
help him out in his publication, and fay for him;
t lat he himfelf is for /ale, and at how low a
price; this I can venture to do for him—but
how he wiM jet the quality of his goods recom
mended, may be a dillicult question. A. Z.
■Jtilv 26, 1792.
03" The Editor allures A. Z. that the author
of the piece signed T. L. is neither the editor,
pu iliilier orprinter of any newspaper whatever,
nor directly or indirectly concerned in any.
BALTIMORE, July 24.
It has been itated as an important Fa<_% that
Rtiffia and Pruflia mean to attack Poland, and
to deilroy its new Constitution.—The follow
ing fketcli of the proceedings of the Polilh Diet
manifefts the unanimity of that bodv, and the
confidence V.iey have in theirKing—Stanislaus
-Augustus :
On the :6 th of April, the Diet parted a Pre
parative ef public Jiejenee. The preamble states,
that " taking God and all the people of the
earth to witness, that we do not mean to de
clare war against any power : That we hold
in the greatest regard the friendlhip and good
undemanding that has fublifted between us and
our neighbors; and that we are occupied only
in maintaining our liberty and independence—
and confideridg that the negotiations between
foreign cCurts require from ui, for the guar
antee of the territories of the republic, of the
nation, and of our happy Constitution, that we
Ihould prepare for our defence, we decree—
'■ " T ''. at the King shall exert the power in
verted in him by the laws with tiie greatest acti
vity and efficacy, in providing for the defence
jw the nation.
a. " \Ve authorize .the King to engage two
or three foreign Generals, and to place them it
•the head of the army, with the rank of Com
mandants >n Clues, as well as experienced offi
cers of artillery and engineering.
3- " We charge the treasury to ne-ociate a
loan, at home »r abroad, for flirty millions, on
a mortgage of the produce of the la!e of Sta
roities.
4. ' We authorize the King to dispose of all
the money an/ing from tiiis loan, as well as
what may be ;nthe treaty, if war fliould take
place, •• uc. God forbid, in the neceflary de
'■"e of "the Republic, under the refponfibilitv
ot :« e Mimfter.
5- "I two months from this date, the Jli
mit</r (hall give an account of the issues of mo-
Philadelphia, July 28.
A' a numerous meeting of the citizens of
Philadelphia, hit Wednesday evening, a com
mittee was Ciioicii to report to the meeting the
names ot rive perions, as conferees in a general
conference, propo;ed to be held by them anci
other persons from the ieveral counties ot' thi;
Commonwealth, for the purpose of forming and
propoiing tickets witii the names of proper per
!ons to be vot.'d for at the next election of Re
presentatives in Congress, and of electors of
Pieiident and Vice-President of the United
States—The committee having withdrawn,
after some time, returned and reported the fol
lowing gentlemen as conferees, viz. Georgi
Latimer, Robert Wain, Jolm Baker, William
Levvis, and Israel Wheleo—and as a committee
of torrefpondei.ee,' William Hawle, Richard
Wells, Hilary Baker, John Wilcocks, and Ben
jamin ii. Morgan.——Tie citizens met lair
evening to taxe the report into coniidera
tion, and to determine on suitable inftrurtions
to conferees to be finally chofcn.
In M&fiacbufetts, the choice of c lector.s of
Preiideut & Vfce-Prefident of the oijited States,
and of members to vcpreient that State in Con
grels, is to be on the fecejid day of November
next—the electors are to meet in Boston the
firll Wednesday in December.
Wednesday the 19th inltant the anniversary
Commencement was held at the University of
Cambridge, Maffachuletts. The degree of
Bachelor of Arts was eonierred 011 thirty-ieven
and that of Master, on a number of other gen
tlemen. Among the exercises of the dav, was
a conference in French—On the compaf'/Jive im
portance oj the American, French and toljh Hevoiu
tions, to mankind. *
An article in a North-Carolina paper fays
that a gentleman from Hifpaniola informs, that
the Britifli have fitted out privateers under com
miUions from the King of Hungary, which have
taken many French merchantmen in the Weft-
Indies. I his story comes via Edenton and Ha
lifax, North-Carolina.
Accounts from Mai tinico, via Boston, inform
oi great disturbances in that Island. On the
6th June, the troops stationed at St. Pier res, it
is laid, revolted. The General, with ibme
troops and ships ol war, went down from Port-
Royal. This threw tiie town into confufion,
and the people run to arms—the troops, it
seems, embarked 011 board several vefiels, injift
ing on being sent to France June 11. The in
habitants were still under arms, and will conti
nue so till the troops are failed. These soldiers
it appears, are all friends to the Revolution, ex
cept a tew, who are staunch friends to the Gc*
neral, who is a staunch friend to the planters
who are firm Ariltocrats.
DETECTOR.
A correspondent who has Worn of the cotton
manufactures of Providence, R. I. f a y s that the
jeans and corduroys made there, vie with those
brought from Europe; the price as low or low
er, ahd the durability superior. j
A letter from a gentleman in Madrid to his
friend in this city, dated June sth, mentions
that the Count d'Aranda has given penniiiion
to the Jesuits to return to Spain, as individu
als, without meaning to countenance them as a
religious society. Tliey each have received
during their exile, it is laid, one fourth of a
dollar per diem, from the King j this will be
for the future, in a groat measure, expended
in the kingdom. As fcientifi'c and literary, men
they must be an acquisition to Spain.
In the Britilh house of Commons May 25 a
motion was made for an address of thanks'to
the King for his proclamation agadnft seditions
writings and publications,in the following wolds:
An humble address of thanks to his Majeftv
expressive of the attachment of the house to his
person and family, and their determination to
exert themselves in opposing the wicked purpo
les of the seditious writings aiming to de?rov
the tranquility of the kingdom."
This motion was supported by the Mafterof
£ Mr- Pm m> and others—and opposed
by Mr. Grey, whopropofedan amendment; af
ter a long debate the original motion was put
and carried. r ■
The new sorest in the county of Southampton,
hundred and fifteen thou
sand acres : A pretty nursery for the navy !
Five hundred and fifty-feven causes were de
termined by the French court of appeal in 11
months.
■ Ser , va "> the new French Minister of war
is Colonel of the 104 th regiment ; he is called
in the London morning Chronicle, a remarka
ble Jacobin.
The London papers of May contain many
humorous attacks on the mihiftry, in the way
of mock and counter proclamations to those if
fiied by the executive.
Twenty tons of hair powder are fold per
week in London—so much for fafhion.
e M a " d i. hi , gh toned P roclama tion is pub
lifted by Marchal Bender, agaioft such persons
of the BelgicStates as lhall be taken aftingcoii
trary to the fovcreign authority—and threat
ens all such with military execution.
I(1 i! etter flc,m Cadiz dated June 4th, fav s
andfufpenfe." ke^tlnaft «e of uncertainty
i'ropofals are pnblifhed by Mr Is* ar Mr
67
The publication of the Journals of the old
O.ongrels will be u:i important acqu.iition to
the political work!; Mr. llauv ns»i engaged
iu the arduous and expenlWe undertaking—and
a? it is not doubted but that t.ie work. Wlii be
•veil executed, a very extensive fubicriptiou
we hope will reward nis labors.
Sublcriptions for the above publications ar
received by the Editor.
The philanthropic mind contemplates witl
pleasure the expanlion of the rays ot knowied
ill the United States.
Schoots and Academic ; are fpringiug up where
a few years lince human foot ne'er trod
periodical publications in the form of tnole
immenlely ufctul vehicles of inibrmarion,news
papers, dart the beams of intelligence into the
once gloomy recelies of the Savage ; and make
•' the wilderness to bloifom as the roie," The
late extension and arrangements of ti:e Polt-
Office, have given a spring to typographical en
terprize in vaiious parts of the Union. Three
papers are now publilhed in the State of Ver
mont—and one or two will be Ihortly added to
those already printed in North-Carolina.
The thirlt for knowledge in t ie citizens of
t!ie United States, is unquenchable—May the
ftreoms therefore continue to encrcafe.—The
Pre/i in a manner groans Withinterefting&im
portant works; andfuch is the spirit of the times,
that the fphcre of typographicalenterprizc would
be greatly extended, could an adequate supply of
paper be procured on reasonable terms—How
important does this coniideration render the
jfaving of rags !—'The idea of procuring them
trom the Weft-India Islands, fuggeftedfoir.etline
fuice, in the General Advertiser, we hope will
be attended to—a large quantity might be
i'crev/ed into a hoglhead.
Mr. Dobs on is prosecuting his great under
taking with fpirit—lt is a high compliment to
public bodies, societies and individuals, that the
Encvclop£&i 4 has met with such a liberal
fubiicription. This valuable work now adorns
many private libraries in Kentucky and other
parts of the Veftern Territory. Several other
Printers of this city are engaged in valuable
id expentivc publication:—Mr. Thomas, of
Maflachufctts, is extending his typographical
adventures—and Printers in all parts of' the
Union are more oriels engaged la publications
of merit.
inurrjl throvghcut the Union"—
This is undoubtedly rhe molt comprehensive
toalt, lb far as it reipeets this country, that
could be given— It excludes all party ideas—it
comprizes the great body of the peoole—lt will
be encored by every friend to the United States
—every friend to the equal rights of man
By republicanism i; undoubtedly intended such
a fj'ftem of government as secures the lives, the
liberties and property of all—Thole men
therefore, who are conliftent republicans, are
as much superior to party, as that form of go
vernment is superior to all others The Go
vernment of the United States is such a go
vernment ; and therefore the public inav be
congratulated on every corrverfion to its prin
ciples—especially of those who have been fuf
pefted of attachment to party.
The people tinder every new eftab.'iflied go
vernment, and freili from a revolution, mav be
compared to a company of men standing on a
bar or ihoaj, which has become dry by the ebb
ing of the sea. They, in genera] pay no atten
tion to the return of the flood, and when it has
Iwelled so far as to cover only their feet, or
ancles, they toll remain thoughtless as ever,'
and are sure 111 a few hours to be overwhelmed
iatliomsdeep, ujdefs there are some friendly
monitors, who will give them notice of their
danger before it be too late. And this ingo
vernments, is the part of those societies deno
minated friends of the people. .AW. Gaz '
The people of the United States under their
newly eftabliflied government,may be compared
to a company juit landed from on board a ship
alter a long and hazardous voyage; having
narjWly escaped fliipwreck, under the good
of able pilots, ,nd filing themselves
on h|gh and hi-m ground, fafe from {he terrors
and dangers which lately threatened them from
every quarter with definition, they spurn
With indignation the importunities of a- fct of
reftiefs and turbulent adventurers who advise
, t lCm , to "-embark and put to sea again under
\ thrn direction, to encounter worse dangers than
they have just escaped—while all they can pof
v propose is, to obtain that which they are
now in full noireffion of—a fafe and secure har-
FROM the pittsbuxch gazette of ju l 8,.
'Exttail oj a letter Jrom Captain Paul, of the State
f V 'w 'n M ' dd ' e B '° ci h ° U f' <° n "" frontiers
LcX'" &> ° n CoU " ty) 3 U ' y 16, 3 79 2 » <° Major
" T^ e Indians on Tuesday last killed two
men and one woman, and stole seven hories be
tween the flats of Grave creek and Col. Shep
,nU f ? h '° CoUnty ' Vir g' n 'a-Lieut. Gray
and four of my men followed therrt over the
Ohio, as far as tlie head of fuufilh, but the In
dians being on horseback they returned without
eom.rtg np with them—On Saturday last at
Dtlly s station oppof-te ths mouth of Grave
crc ,, ' Indians came into one of the houses
and Killed four and wsunded one—the number
of Indians was supposed to be twenty It is
thought they will strike this quarter—To-mor
row morning I expert to start with a party to
try to fall in with thein."
Monday last arrived in town from the e-ft
ward, Captain Stake's troop of horse, under the
command of Lieut- Campbell,
And on Tuesday a detachment of between
two and three hundred men, under the co r
mand ot Major Artie ton. , n "
The fame day Captain Faulkner's rifle com
co a unty marC " ed into tOW " iV '" n
EXPORTS of Goccb, Ware:, and Mercfiahdift,
iiom t.ie iliitntt oi Benuuda-Huiidred o.
CiCr-Pomt, in the State at Virginia, to F<»-
179" Cuul:Uies ' tVo " 1 'ft to June 30th,
l'o England—2 hhds. furs, 722 bis. tar,3,365
, 28,884 hhd. ltaves, 14,700 ui.do.
30 dozen-hand(pikes.
To Scotland—B32 hhds. tobacco, 6,350 hbd
llaVMi 16,3/0 bl. do. :
lo irancs—ls2 bis. flour fine, 2,715 hhd:
tobacco, bl (taves.
To Spain—3,962 bufbels corn Indian, 491
Ms. flour fuperrine, 440 bis. do. fine, 201 haus.
tobacco, 1,960 hhd. ltaves, 3,500 bulh. wheat
... J ««ly—6o bis. flour fine, 4 callcs farfapa
rillii, 104 hhds. tobacco, 3 bis. wax bees.
To Denmark— 500 bis. flour fuperfine, ji bis.
do. fans ,59 bis. do. middlings, 378 hhd.. touac
co, 1,500 ,bs. tobacco, manufactured.
To Afrit4—lo bis. bread pilot, 10 bis. flour
luperfiae, 2 >3®o g a 's. rum N. E. 10 bis. turpen
tine, 10 bis. tar, 52 hhds. tobacco.
To French Veil-Indies—l,2oo lbs. bacdn,
100 bis. bread pilot, 44 bis. do. imp, 853 bis.
flour fuperfine, 123 bis. do. fine, 7 bis. lard hog
100 bis. meal and lud.corn,6 bls.pork,s hhds.to
bacco.
To Dutch Weft-Indies—s97 bis. bread (hip,
1,030 bulh. Corn Indian, 200 bis. ilour luperiuie,
xoo lbs. manufactured tobacco.
To Nova-Scotia—l,Bol bufuels corn Indian.
1,200 bushels wheat.
Fo Portugal—l 8,470 bufti. corn Indian, 2,125
bulh. wheatv
Total value, 375,436 dollars 89 cents.
Nett value of every species ot' mercttandife
entered in the diftritt, within the fame period,
L- 70,347- 9- 3- equal to 312,342 dollars
74 cents.
PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENT.
AN EXTRACT.
'• THAT the Legislature is supreme, f»
long as the conltttution of government lalts.
2. That the executive department 01 govern
ment is alone to enforce laws, but has no autho
rity to res use a compliance with tLem, more
than any other individual*
3- That the whole body of the people is alone
competent to controul the legiilature.
4- That this cannot be done but by difiolviag
the government.
5. That every law which in its consequences
will not destroy and that very immediately the
rights of man, had better be enforced and the
repeal ot it obtained in the constitutional mode.
This follows from the principle, that the lelier
inconvenience always ought to be adopted. 4
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at ike PO&T oj' PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Lnterprize, M'Ciimout, . Cadiz
Bug Betft-y, White, riyroou!h,(Q,& I
Maiy, Thoinpfon, Londonderry
Sch'r Geres, Elireiiftrone, Cape-Francois
Crecne, do.
Delaware, Wharton,. -Tart-iu-Pnuce
Pol!,, Perry, North-Carolina
:Moop Union, Bradford, ditto
Ftitndlhip, Carver, Boftc.
Harriet, Goodrich, -New-York
Richmond, JBuflurk, ditto
Lucinda, \V»rner, ditto
The fl.ip Norfolk, Capt. Wilson, from Cork
is arrived at Baltimore with 420 pail'engers. '
price of stocks.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
kMerrtd, I "^ t>
Full lharcs Bank II 1 "-''
Sharcin^nkN
POST-OFFICE, Philadilphi-A, Julys,
M Lm c , s 10, the B.iufh Cheltfflielu
forfalmoull, via Halifax, wdf be received M lhi ;
office u.mlTuclday morning the 31ft inftjnt at 8
Certificates Loft.
Ctr f cat *
No. 740 for £. } S 0 0
'97® it'l2 9 .
7 1 5 1 o o '
348 a 146'
O 12 Q
The fubfcnbcr luppofes the above Certificate
Crri f! W j? ev " wiU d 'f«>vcr the Thief, 0 r
Mori is- Town,
A ' ew - ? er J f y< J"b»2,1792.
New-Brunfwick Lottery.
HIGHEST PKIZE, 2,000 DOLLARS.
T" E Publ,c " e hereby informed, that the
drawing of the above Lottery is d< ih-,
till the third dav of SeptemberK
time, the Managers are pofttivcly determined the
drawing (hall commence, in Mr. Noinuu'., j ~,l r.
Room, in the City of New-Brunfwick "
Trl[ V" 1 . 0 bc h3d 31 SAMUE - CCOPPR'S
Ferry, wheie fortunate adventurers may receive
their pn;,e.money ten da,, after draw,J. A Hit
of fortunate numbers will be publilhcd j„ t l, -
GA f iiJ T1 of tl,c United States.
t-3 Circurnftances unfoiefeen, and unfavorable
f° have occasioned the neceflity of this
ask F a mft ODem ' n < t- i 1 h,; Keftor-md Warden,
atk the tffiftance of their e pl fcopal and oilier
filends, in lupplymg themlelves with Tickets pre
fj. a^° v e da, confideru that no Lottery
ore favorable to adventurers has bceu cficrcd to
the public t.ic dedua.on being only i_.K „ cr
cent, and not two blanks to a prize. '
V Otters d i reded .
Poft-Malter, New-Brunfwick (poll paid; wiil°U
immediately attended to. U
Ncv.-Brunfwick, July « 5 , 1792. ( {p ,s)
JOSEPH LEWIS,
(iaw'7wjFrom an Zvgiijk To ft r
PRINCE POTEMKIN.
THlSPrince, according to the mili
tary law of Russia, served as all
otheryoung Noblemen do, a few years
Serjeant in tlie Em pre Is s guards,
and at length received Lhe com million
of an officer. Fortunately lor Russia,
her Imperial Majelty continually re
wards merit, an<l her feletfting the
Prince is a proof of the Sovereign s
great discernment.
The early pait of the Prince's life
was dedicated to extreme ftndy ; and
during the last war again ft the Turks,
he diltinguilhed himfelf under the
orders of Field Matihal Romanzoff.
At the commencement of the war
in 1788, his Highness was appointed
to the command of the army agailifl
the Turks. After repuFfing the ene
my at Kinglmrn, he pitched his camp
before OtzakofF, besieged that strong
fortrefs four months ; and though
during the lafl fix weeks there was
frequently 20 degrees of frofl, and a
very deep snow, took it, to his im
mortal renown, by storm ; on the
17th of December. His Highnefs's
other great contjuefts, in the years
1789 and 1 T9O, are so generally known,
that it is uuneceflary to enumerate
them here ; — and I have no doubt
but his humanity to his numerous
prifuners has been long ago publish
ed ; for it was his firft care, after his
wounded men, to fee himfelf that the
unfortunate were supplied with eve
ry poflible comfort. He was beloved
by the army.
Now let us view him as a Statef
man,and we find bim a great patriot
110 fubjert has ever existed, who
had the unlimited power of Prince
Potemkin. Her Imperial Majefly's
well-judged confidence had made him
almighty in her immense dominions;
and notwithstanding all this power,
since his death, his few envious ene
mies have declared that he never ren
dered a man unhappy.
The Ruffians have long enjoyed
the fruits of the inaiuifatflories he
commenced and parronifed. If the
matter of any art was to be purcha
sed from u foreign country, there
was a general order from his High
ness to secure him at any expense,
out ot his own private fortune. He
would have fuflicient proof given that
the Ruffian Cabinet is not to be out
inanceuvred, ill which dexterity the
Prince bore a considerable (hare. In
the arts and fcienccs he was a con
noisseur, his tafle in architecture has
been jnftly admired by all our fo
reigners ; latterly he paid great at
tentioil to naval architecture, and
was cfieemed a competent judge of a
faip of war,
Jlis Highness had never travelled
out of Ruffra • yet upon hearing his
fconverfation, one might have conclu
ded that he had vifiied every corner
of the globe. His memory was equal
to his information ; his ideas were
fnblime, as his power was great. Her
Imperial Majesty, who has much la
jnented his death, declared in tears
on receiving the melancholy news,
that flie had loft a faithful friend.
AN ENGLISHMAN,
Who has served during the war
under his orders.
To be publipud by Subscription,
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCEF, DI NCS OF THE
OLD CONGRESS,
From September 1774* to March 1789; —
An Silth nfic and original collection of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c
written during the late war ;
And extr acts from the
SECRET JOURNALS
( cor Jee Propoftls at large.)
SuVTci iptions arc received by the principal
Bookseller*, and bv the Editor,
JOH\ T CAREY. A7>. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia
r_ prtE Partner (hip ol HAZARD & ADDOMS,
J. is d'fTolved ;— AM pcrfons having demands
on that F1 KM, are dcfircd ro call for fcttlemcnt.
upon EBENEZER HAZARD, at No. 1 :8, North
Second-Street —and those indebted to it are re
quested to make immediate payment to him.
EBENEZER HAZARD.
JONAS ADDOMS.
Philadelphia, Jvh 10. 1792. (if
NEW TEAS.
I MI'ERIAL,HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Of the very fir It quality, and latest importation
from Canton, via New-York, by retail, at
No. 19,
Third, bclween Chcfnut and Market Streets,
, US T PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookseller, at the Stone-House, in Second-Stieet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VI of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
Or a Ditfionary oKArts, Science#)
and Miscellaneous Literature,
On a plan entirely new : By which the different
fcinices and arts are digeftcd into the form
Of diftinit Treatifs or Sjflems.
This fixili volume contaiiis, among a variety of
intereftinq articles,
Dioptrics,oiftillation,diving bell,art of drawing,
Dublin art of Dying, theory of the earth and earth
quakes, Edinburgh, education,|lriftory ot Egvpi,
System of ele&rictty, history of England; engrav
ing, cflavmg, hifiory of Ethiopia, See. See. Sec.
liliijlruted with twenty-t no copper plates.
CONDITIONS.
The work is printing oft a fuperfme paper, and
new types (calk tor tlie purpose in Philadelphia)
which will be uccafionally renewed before they
contrail a worn appeaiance.
!. The work may be hart in volumet or halj-voltimes;
it being proposed to deliver the volumes in
parts, at twenty ftiillingJ.(Pffinfylvania currency)
each, in boards, or lor the whole volume, five
dollars, in boards. The volumes now finished
aieto be paid so ran delivery,and the price ol one
volume is to be paid in advance, and the pi ice
of each succeeding volume to be paid on de
livering the volume preceding it.
11. In the corn fe of publication will be exhibit
ed above five hundred copper plates, elegantly
engraved in Philadelphia ; which by far exceed
in number those given in any other fcicntilic
dictionary. At the close t>f the publication will
be delivered, an elegant frontifpiece, the dedi
cation, preface, and proper title pages for the
different volunus.
%* As the very great exprnce attending the
undertaking, makes pun&uali'\ of payment in
dispensably neceflary, the puMifher flatters hirrt
felf that the fubfonbers wtil be perfectly fatisfud
with his adhering ftri&ly to his original plar\ of
delivering the books only on receiving payment,
agreeable to the eondirions ot publication.
Subscriptions for the Encyclopedia,
Will continue to be received on the fmne terms as
uiaal, nil the fiift of September, 1792, when the
price will be encieafed. Ten Dollars to be
paid on fubfeription, by thole who have not sub-
Icribed before that time.
Those who have fubfc.ribcd, but not taken their
books before that time, will be considered as not
fiaving fqbfcribed.
As Ibe fubfeription wiil probably be closed by
C'tiriftmas, such as chufe to be pofleflors of this
very valuable and important work, will do well
*0 come forward in tune, that they may not be
j.lifappointed. Julv 21. eptf
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
Juke 28, 1792.
PURSUANT to the last Will and Teftamentof
ibe late Rev. Alexander Williamson,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale onThuri
day, the 11th of October next, at Giorcetown,
on a crcdit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved fecurity,to bear interest lrom
ihe date—That valuable Seat ol Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayf.s; the late dwelling
plantation ol the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatc.lt part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa-
trred, and capable of affording a very consider able
quantity ct fine meadow ; —Situated about 6 miles
from the Federal City,and the fame distance from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remaikable healthy part of the country.
The improvements aie, a very elegant two story
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
Daflfage, or entry, on a floor) and the necefTiry out
houses. HENRY TOWNSEND,)
BENJ. STODDERT, > Executors.
(epiO) THOMAS JOHNS, )
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
Ju L v 6, 1792.
THE Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-Scat oil
Rock Creek, deemed by ihofc who have ex- j
mined it, equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter of
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile from
•he market house in Georgetown, and one milt
from the Prefulent's square, in the city of Wafa
ington—on tidewater, navigable for vcffels of se
veral hundred bulhels burthen.—The stream is
fufficient,thc year round,to turn four pair of stones,
the fall may be made from 25 to 30 feet. It
is unnccefTary to dwell on the advantages of such
a situation.
The purchaser may be accommodated with a
'< w hundred acres of land adjoining the Mill-Seal
if thai (hould be an objeiV
(ep 3 m 14Jul)
George-Town.
A Number of LOTS in every situation which
X may be desired in City of Washington,
will he offered for sale by the Commiflioners, on
Monday the 8:h day of Ottoberntxt. One fbbrth
oart of the money to be paid down, the icfidue in
three equal annual payments, with yearly interest
on the whole principal unpaid.
JOHN M'GANTT, Clerk
June 1. 1792
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD (PRICE 1 of.)
By EBENEZER HAZARD,
128 North Second-Strect,
THE
history
New-Hampfhirc,
Vol. 11l
Containing a geographical description of the
State?—with (ketches of its natural history, pro
ductions, improvements, and present (tale of so
ciety and manners, laws and government.
B\ JEREMY BELKNAP, A. M.
This volume complcars the hiflorv, and is
peculiarly mterefting. SubFcribcrs are delired
to call for their book?.
68
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY.
JAMES, WAX CHANDLER,
1 Iroin London, refpeftfnlly informs the public
[na t he has eftabliihed a Manufactory of the above
branch, at the upper end of Mulberry-Street,New-
Yo.k, whete\ Merchants, Captains of Vessels,
Dru 'oills, and l"an»ilies, inay be supplied with
< xcel]cnt and pu'e V/hkc Wax Candles, \\ hite
Wax in Cakes, Tapers, Wax'd Lamp Wicks,
Flambeaux, &c. warranted equal to any made in
1 ondon, and twenty percent, chcaper.
Oidrrs in this and the adjacent Slates, received
hv Mr. Jo HN Good-eve, Bridge-Sweet', Mr.
William Wohmi«, Fletcher-Street, and a>
t hc Manufactory, where samples mav be ken.
| >J U. Bees-Wax taken in payment, or bleached
hi moderaie terms.
New-York. July 19, i?9 2
WANTED, to go to Boston,
A JOURNEYMAN COPPERSMIIH, »t
small work, such as Tra-Ketilcs, Coffee
pots, &c.—Good wages and constant employment
will be given to a peifon with good lecowmcn^a
nons a fuigJe man would be preferred. Enquire
of the Editor,
July 25
HAS Removed his OFFICE to No. 128 north
Second-Street, where he continues to purchase
and fell on Comtniflion, Certificates of debt of the
United, and Individual States, Bank. Stock, Canal,
and Turnpike Shares, &c. &c.
(pT Subscribers to the Universal Tontine who
have not vet received tin-r Ceitificatcs are deiiied
10 call for them.
July 18.
N0.45, Great Dock-llreet, New-York,
THE Subfctiber intending to confine himfclf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE ok
STOCKS on COMMISSION, leave to offrr
his services to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Thofc who may please to fa
vor him with their business, mav depend upon
having it tranfa&ed with the utinoft fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other
part of the United States will be ftri&ly attend
ed to.
May 2
Philadelphia, July 7, 1792.
FOR the information of Merchants and die Mas
ters or Commanders of v< flels, are published
the following extra&s from the Law for establish
ing Pofl-Offices and Pod-Roads within the United
iStates.
In fe&ion 10, it is ena&ed (hat there fhafl be
charged " for every letter or packet brought into
the United States, or carried from one port there
in to another by fca, in any private ship or vdlel,
four cents, if delivered at the place where the fame
shall arrive ; and if directed to be delivered at any
other place, with the addition of the like pottage,
as other letters are made fubjett to the payment
of by this act."
In fc&ion 12, " That no (hipor vessel, arriving
at any port within the United States, where a poft
offrce is established, shall be permitted to irport,
make entry or break bulk, till the mailer or com
mander shall have delivered to the poltinaller, all
letters dire&cd to any per (on or persons within
the United States, which, under his care or within
hm power, fhill be brought in such ship or vessel,
other than luch as are dire&ed to the ownei or
consignee : but when a vessel (hall be bound to a
nother port, than that, at wbiclv|fhe may enter, the
letters belonging to, or to be delivered at the said
port of delivery, shall not be delivered to the poft
rnaftcr at the port ot entry. And it shall be the
duty of the collector or other officer of the port,
empowered to reccive entries of ships or vessels,
to require from every master or commander of
luch ship or vessel, arioath or affirmation, purport
ing that he has delivered all such letters, except as
aiorcfainj'
In fe£lion 13, " That the postmaster to whom
such letters may be delivered, shall pay to the
master, commander, or other person delivering
the fame, except the commanders of foreign pack
ers, two ccnts tor every such letter or packet; and
shall obtain from the person delivering the fame,
a ccrtficate fpecilying the number of letters and
packets, with the name of the ship or vessel,
and the place from whence she tall failed ; which
certificate, together with a receipt for the money,
shall be with his quarterly accounts, transmitted
to the Poflmafter-General, who shall credit the
amount thereof to the poll matter forwarding the
j lame."
B. STODDERT,
For general injor nation, the 14th fe&ion is pub
lished, " And be it further ent&ed, That if any
person, other than the Poflraafter-General, or his'
deputies, or perfofis by them employed, shall take 1
up, receive, order, dilpatch, convey, carry or de
liver any letter or letters, packet or packets, other :
than newspapers, for hire or reward, or shall be
concerned in fitting'up any foot or horse poll,
waggon or other carnage, by or in which any let
ter or packct shall be carried for hire, on any cfla
blifhed post-road, or any packer, or other veifel
or boat, or any conveyance whatever, whereby the
revenue of the general poft-othce may be injured,
every person, so offending, shall forfeit, for every
such offence, the sum of two huudred dollars.
Provided, 1 hat it shall and may be lawful for eve.
r v person to fend lettei sor packets by fpccial mes
senger.
to the Commiinoners.
fcptf]
THE UNIVERSAL HYMN BOOK.
Now in the Press, and will be readv for Sale in
ten days, by THOMAS DOBSON, and
orher Booksellers in Philadelphia,
A Seltftion of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS ; taken trom d i tlei ent Au
ihors, for the Use of those who believe in the
Reftorationof all Men. Publilhcd by Order of
i!ie Convention holding said Faith, met in Phila
delphia, Mav, 1 791.
*** As this is an Universal Ilvmn Rook, the
favor ol the Printers in different parts, in iifrrtinu
the above advcrtifeuicni, will be acknowledged.
3 u b eptf.
Ebenezcr Hazard,
stocK-bkoker,
Stock Brokers Office,
LEONARD BLEECKER.
fr U
GENERAL POST-OFEICE,
SECURITIES.'
SOLDIERS, Mariners, and militia men'i b*
lands, and claims on the public,
SHARES, in the Batiks, in the>Cauals,and Tiwij
oike Road,
>
CERTIFICATES, granted by the public, ai.6
| the old and late paper monies,
NOTES of hand, bills, bor.ds, and mort«» e i
with or without deposits,
BOUGHT, fold, or negotiated, at No. 2 ia
Fourth-ftieet below Matfeeuftteci, by
FRANC IS WHITE,
Who iranfafts bufincfs in lie public for
Country people and others,by virtue of i fuuu
6f altornty, or by perianal application'; '
PHILADELPHIA.
[<rp 7 w]
BOOK S,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
M A T H E W CAREY,
No. n 8, Marktt-Strett, Philadelphia.
1. A MERlCANMUSEOM,fiomiticommcncfrf
r\ mcni in January 1787, tp Di'cnnber imv t
in itn V'lls. Fricc, nealiy bound anil lettcicc
sixteen dollars.
['PS"']
This work, which is now conduftcd on an im
prove d plan, containing the best pieces publifhcd
for and agair.ft the proceedings of government .
will be found to comaui at teaft as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and mifctlianeous eflays,
as any ever piiblifhed in America, Perhaps in nu
one work are so many valuable documents retard,
j ing the history qf this country, colieded together.
jHis Excell-ency the Prefjdent of the United States,
has declared of it, that " a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more defe»ving k of public encouragement.**
The fubfeription is two dollar and a half per
aim. Gentlemen in the country who wish to
be fuppltcd with this work, are requested to give
commi&on to friends in the city to fubferibefor
ind receive it* Any of the back numbers
may be had in order to complete sets.
(ep.tf )
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mifj
More's E flays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice,JMarchiouels of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone on command ot Temper, Mbrc's Fables for:
the Ladies, Pi ice 6/5.
3. Smith's History of New-York, fromits firft
feuleincnt to the year 1732. To which is anncx
<d, a description oI the Country, with a fliort
account of the inhabitants, their religious and
oolitical state, and the couftiiulien of loe court)
of juitice. Ptice a dollar and a quarrel.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by fartirs Brat
tie, 1.1.d. proleffor of moral p"hilofophy and
logfic in the Marifchal College,. Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay "We
iave fcen nothing, on thele lubjc&s more pUtn,
more perspicuous, or nune generally ufeful."*——
X. B. It is introduced into the Univctftty m Phi
ladelphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, Britifti and American,,
containing feleft production* of tht most eminent
! Brittfh and American poets—Price four-fitthsof
!a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons,containing the whole of the
three volumes ot the Brill fh edition, in two——
Price two dollars.
7. Necker's Treanfe on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
8. Examination of the Obfcrvations of Lori
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, ou very
| fine paper, 5 Brhsofa dollar.
9. The Conflitutions of the f<Vernl United States,
I with the Federal Conflitution, See. Pi icc fivc-
!eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epte poem, a new edition in
tamo.—Pricetrhree-eighths of a dollar.
I it. American Jest Book, in two parts, with
two very neat engravings—Price bound, three-
I fifths of a dollar.
12. Garden of the Soul, by B.fliop
Price, bound in calf and lettered, three qsarters
of a dollar—plain, half a dollar.
13. The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—Price, elegantly bound and letter
ed, 50/2—plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Chriftian'a Vade Mecura—Price a
quarter dollar.
15. Think well on't, or reflexions for every
day of the month.-Price a quarter dollar.
16. Christian Economy, tranflaled from »
Greek manuscript, found in the ifiand of Pdtmo*
wlicre St. John wrote the Apocalypse—Prices,
fifth of a dollar.
17. Hiitory of Charles Grandifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
of a dollar.
19. Sele£l Poems, chiefly American—Price a
fixih of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, 3 large afTortment of
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will difpole of on the nioft icafooab e
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, mjy depend upon being supplied !•
the most fattsfactory manner. A libera) allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries,
or to fell again. _
RUN AWAY from the subscriber, living is
Kent Countv, and State of Maryland, oil
Sunday the 2Tth May last, a NEGRO ' •
named Hark; about 40 years of age, about five
feet nine iuches high, has a fear over one 0 )'j»
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs bis >< a
one fide, and looks up—had on and ton
him the followingcloaths, viz. a frarnoug tc |' a *
a black and white kersey coat, cut ''/T i
kersey jacket and breeches, two pair of yarn nont
ings, the one pair lately footed, and the ot CT *
two oznaburgh shirts, each pieced on onc . j
two pair of tow-linen trow fen, one p«" r P a
with new tow-linen down the fore pdrts,
old felt hat. .. ... n f t hii
Whoever takes up said N<*gro, ' 0 tni T R-
State,and secures him in gaol, foall recfive
TEEN DOLLARS reward-and if;t»k«
this State, and secured as aforefai , 3 •
EIGHT DOLLARS reward; and '
home, rcaionablc expence* » ,|,b ' p ' '.-nv
PEREGRINE I-tTH R Bl K'-
, June 4, 179 1 • J^lL-
\Ch'ficr-Town>
fr*- ,tr»r-rt*t ■" U "
•■the O f>j fie tdiW>
'4
(n«6»)
K'Als'TFfl- TO RENT,
t
\