6?tiz&U fftfi
A NATIONAL PAPER, POLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 37, of yd. IV.]
Grand Family Bible.
PROPOSALS
BV SUBSCRIPTION, i
>». ELEGANT EDITION of the
SAC R&D SCRIPTURES
Of the OLD and NEW TESTAMENTS, with the
Apocrypha,
€n a very large bunt Jul new T)pe, and fuperfine
Paper.
THE great importance ot the Holy Scriptures,
inttreftirtg to every individual ; the divine excel
lence of its doctrines and precepts, and the beauty
and fublimiiy of its paffiges, have so long made it
a capita) opj<*£Vof aucution. e* to preCi'ijcU ucca
fion of unity for eulogium.
The piety or enierprize of individuals has pre
fcuied thi invaluable book to tne public in a va- 1
riety ol forms ; in fomfc editions it has been highly ,
ctnhellilhed with superb engravings, which have
greatly enhanced its price ; in others it has been
a&ompanied with voluminous commentaries,
which ncceilarily encreafed the size; while a va
riety of plain cheap copies have gen rally ditfufed
the knowledge of the Scripture, and made the
purefcafeeafy to every class.
Without w.iV-mg m the fmal'ieft degrr* to leffin
the merits of the various editions, whither ptain
or ornamented, which the public are already in
pofle&on of, it is pertinent to it-mark, that very
many readers of taste and judgment have expreifed
a wish for a Familv Bible unencumberrd with ad
ditions. There ft.ll appears room, for another
edition on a beautiful, new type, superior in size
and elegante to any bible that has yet been printed
in the Englilh language, and which, leaving the
adventitious circumstances ot ornament or com
ment, may exhibit the Oracles oj God in their na
tive limplicity. jj.
SPECIMEN Of THE TYPE.
5 And God said,
J Let there be light: and
there was light.
With refpeftlul fubmillion to the judgment awl
candour of the'public, the following propotals arc
offered : f
I. The work (hall be printed with the gieateft
fidelity and attention to corre&nefs both iti the
text and marginal references, on a {uperfoie Paper
made on puxjK>fc, wiub. aa eigyttt new call
lor the work, of the size ot the a'Dove Specimen.
11. The woik will be comprised in twenty
number. l , making two elegant volumes in Folio ;
to be furnilhed to fublctibers at one dollar e<tch
-number. To prevent any complaints \>f want of
punctuality, no part of the woik wll be delivered
untefs paid for.
111. The firfl number, containing lixty folio
elegantly piinted, will be furnifhtfl 011 the
firft Saturday of July next, when fubferibers are
to pay the price of the fir it and second numbers,
and the price of one number to be always in ad
vance trll the work is completed. The subsequent
numbers to be published regularly on the firil Sa
turday of each succeeding month, till the whole
is finiihed.
(£3* Sublet iptions will be received in Philadel
phia by the PuDiiflieis, Thoma's Dobson, No. 41,
South Second-street, and John Parker, N0.259,
North Second-llreet ; and by all the Booksellers :
in Charleston. by William P. Young ; Richmond,
by Aichibald Currte ; Baltimore, by James Rice ;
vV ilmington, by Peter Brynbcrg ; New-York, by
Thomas Allen; New-Haven, by 1 fuac Beers;
Providence, (R. I.) by William Willtinfon; Sa
' ' m > by Thomas Culhing ; Boston, by David
eft, Benjamin Guild, jrnd -Ttaumis & Andrews.
Treasury Department,
N August 20th, 1792.
OTICE is hereby given, that propolals wil
be received at the office of the Secretary »i
the Treasury, uufil the 13th day of O&obel next
jnclufivc, for the of all rations whicfi may
be required for the use of the United States, from
inefirliday of January to the thirty-firft day of
. cember *'798' both at Springfield,
in the State oi Malfachuletts, and the Post oj W»ft
foint, in the State of New.York.
The rations to be supplied, are to con fill of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
ne pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
«alf a jill of rum, brandy or whiiky,
One qua it of fait, )
Two quarts of vinegar, f
A»o pounds of soap, f P er 100 rallons
"%One pound of candles. )
, P">pofali may be made for both of the
f. t j e ? t » oncc * or feparatciy, for Suiing
«Je!d and Weft-Point. *
George-Town.
J\ dumber of LO AS in every situation which
•ii in "City of Washington,
vi be offered for falc by the Commilli oners, on
"day the Bth day of Oftobc r next. One fourth
Part ot the money to be paid down, the residue in
ree tqual annual payments, wuh yearly Intcreft
on the whole principi! unoaid.
JOHN M'GANTT, Cleik
j 1 """, ?■ 1795.
t'T The price of rhis Gazette is Three Dollars ber
«*.■»«_ One half to be fatdat the tjg e o/ftibfcribing.
v TERRITORY OF COLUMBIA.
June 28, 1792.
PURSUANT to the last Will and Tfeftaimry of
the late Rev. Alexander Williamson,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on 1 hurl
day, the 11 th ol Odtober uexi, at Georgetown,
on a credit of three rears, the purchasers givin?
bond with approved fecrnty, to bear intercll from
the date—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation of the dcceaied, containing between fix
and (even hundred acies, the greatest part of which
rich,heavy timbcred land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of afloiding a very confiderabie
quantity ot tioe mradow -Situated about 6 miles
Jrom jh- Etdccal dift ince from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy pait of the country.
The improvements are, a very elegant two story
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a j
oafTagfc, or entry, on a floor) and the necelfary out
houses. H>E R Y TOWNSEND, )
BEN'}. SiODDER7', > Executors.
feptQ) THOMAS JOHNS, >
Ju LY 6, 1 792.
THK offers for fair, a M'il-Stat on
Rocvi Creek, deemed by \ hose whe f.3ve cx
mmed it, equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter of
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile from
Ihe market house in Georgrtown, and one mile
from the President's square, in the city of Wash
ington—on water, navigable for vc lfels of fe-,
ver.il hundred ufh<Nfrbuithen.—-The ilream is
luPicient,tbe year round.to turn frjur paSr ot ikones,.
and the lall may be made from 25 to 30 feet. It
is uiinecefTary to dwell on the advantages of such
a fituatton.
The purchvafer may h* accommodated with a
lew hundred acres of land adjoining the Mill-Seat,
if that should he an obicft,
fepQm 14Jul)
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & CRI'KSHANK.
. August 0, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United States, thai
the sums to which they are intitled for fix months
of their annual ptnfion, from the 4th day of March
1792, and which will bccome due on the sth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the laid day
by the CommilfioncTs of the Loans within the
States refpc&ivcly, under the usual regulations,
Eveiy application lor payment mult be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
iff. The certificate given by the ftate,fpecifying
that" the per (on poflffling the fame is in fait an in
valid, and afceitaining the turn to which as iuch he
is anonallv entitled.
2d. An affidavit, ag|feably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Jujliccs ofthe
co-unty of in the Jlate oj and made oath that
he is the fame A. B. to whom the original certificate
ui his pojjcffion was given, of which the following is
a copy (the certificate given by the flute to be recittd)
That he fcrved (regiment, corps or vcjjelj at
the time he was dfibled, and that he now refxdes m
the and county of and has refidtd
there for the laji years, previous to which he re- !
sided in
In cafe an invalid fhoujd apply fox payment by
mi attorney, the laid attorney, besides rhe certifi
cate and oath before recited, mult" produce a spe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the following
form :
I, A. R. of county of Jlate of do
herebyconflitute and appoint C. D. oj my lawjui
Attorney, to receive in my behalf of my pcujion
for fx months, as an invalid oj the United States,
fiom the fourth day of March, one thousand [even
hundred and ninety-two. and ending the day oj
September, one thoujandfeven hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and u aled
in the presence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executory and ad miriiftiators
must be accompanied with legal evidence of their
rvfpe&ive offices, and alio of the time the invalids
died, whose pension they may claim.
By command oi the
President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refpe&ivc States arc
requcfted to publish the above in their newfpa
ers, for the space of two mootbs.
TO jiE SOLD BY THWDITOR,
AN ALPfIABETICAL LIST of the Duties
payable on all Goods, Wares and Merchan-J
dize imported into the United States ; exhibiting:
the Rakes payable on those imported in Ships or
Veflels of the United States, and in Foreign Ships
or Veflels; including the additional Duties to
which the refpettive Articles are liable.
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold'— 1
graduated according to Law—Blank Manifefts—
And Blank's for the various Powers of Attorney
mceflary in tranfatting Banners at the Trettfuiy or
at the Bank of the United States.
to the Commifl'ioners.
l>pfQ
Saturday, October 6, 1792.
TtKKITOKY ot- COLUMBIA
PLANS
OF THE
City .of Waihington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
War Department,
Witnejfes.
ALSO,
145
FOJi THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITFUSTATES.
Mr. Fenno,
Having been favored with the rough copy of the inclosed
Charge, delivered by Judge Sinmcrson,/o
the Grand Jury, at the lafl Court of Quarter
Sefliofu in the County of Salem, New- Jerfey—J have
sent it to you. for publication, fhculd you think the
fertments contained in it worth) a plate in \out
ufefulpuper. A ibek.
Gentlemen of the Grand Jury,
WHILST the greater part of mankind are
labouring under the prefTure of despotic
.Jvernnjents, it is the peculiar felicity of Ame-I
i cans to live unHer eftahlifliments wiich have'
| torthe;y bafts the voice of the people, and for.
object, tlie public welfare where the genius j
,of the laws is mild and beneficial, and which!
pOiTefs one of the best inflritutions ever yet de
v tied for bringing offenders to. J tift ice,.without
endangering the security of the innocent.
A Grand Jury, composed of the moil diforeet
a«id refpeftabie citizens taken at stated periock
i om the body of a country, in order to enquire
ntoand prefect the offenders against the laws,
an institution admirably calculated to pro
mote 6refer and good government. It is an in
stitution which, from the nature of the appoint
ment, mud poiTefs the best knowledge of the
peoples' behaviour, whilifc it is bound by the
fan&ious of pivil and religious obligation dili
gently and impartially to discharge its duty.
In the diftrihntion of the functions of criminal
- dtniniftration in our government, a most im
portant part of that gi cat duty has been afilgned
to you., gentlemen. To you has been exclu
fiyely committed the duty of crimiuating the
offenders against the laws, and of impeaching
tbcm at the fear of public justice. you, in
ched, it may be laid, has in a great measure
been committed the peace of the country, and
the custody of the public morals.—ln vain will
the civil niagiftrate-bind over or commit for
offences, unless those offences are by you enquir
ed into and prelented. And ior vain fliall we
look for public order or private happiness," na
jt.i >»&! prosperity or individual fafety, under the
imft perfect conftitutiofis, the bell governments,
and the wisest laws, unlets they are carefully
ai)d uprightly admintftered, and generally re-
and obeyed by the feopJe.-r-Virtuou*
citizens will regard the laws with attention,
and obey them from a fente of duty; but the
fear of disgrace and puni/hment only, can com
pel those of an opposite character to refpe<ft
them-
B. STODDERT.
Hence it is neceflary for the welfare of so
ciety, effectual protection of Its mem
bers in the peaceable enjoyment of their rights,
that offenders lhould be brought to justice : and
however painful the performance of this duty
may be to the feelings of human nature, yet
when it is considered as being inseparably con
nected with fQcial peace the per
form an ce becomes an indifpcnfiblc duty. For
there is no truth more clearly established by ex
"perience than this-—that crimes and misdemean
ors will multiply in a state in proportion to the
chance of impunity. And whenever it fhrtll
happen that Grand Jurors, ceaHng to be the vi
gilant censers of tfie behaviour of the citizens,
and. regardless of the obligations of duty* fhali j
negledt or refufe to present the offenders againil,
the laws, this admirable institution, the boast of
political wisdom and the pride of Americans,
uiftead of answering the valuable ends for which
it was defigncd. wiil-bqcorne acorn under which
the unprincipled and villainous part of mankind
may disturb the order and peace of society, and
commit depredations on the rights of their fel- j
low citizens with perfeCt security.
It being then necessary that examples should
be made of offenders, in order to deter«others
from the cojnmilfion of crime' — to the end that
such examples may be ufeful, it is ellential that
ail proceedings against persons accused or fuf
pefted, fiiould be attended with the reflection,
that they may be innocent, and that and dil
paflionate enquiry should ever precede the rigors
which justice exaCts, and which are the una
voidable consequences of conviction. Warm,
partial, and precipitate prosecutions, are a dis
grace to any adminiltration; and they never
[fail to excite in the public mind partiality and
companion for the accused, and disgust at the
leverity of government But, on the contrary,
when the proceedings against offenders are tem
perate and decent; when convictions are the
result of impartial trials, held in a
fiftent with the dignity of public justice, the vir
tuous feelings of men will ever be found on the
iide of government; and however they may
commijlerate the unhappy lot of fuffering offen
i ders, their companion will ever be mixed with
| a due degree of indignation.
Happy, thrice happy Americans ! your's is a
government of laws—laws made by your own
consent, expressed by your representatives in
the legillature.—Laws which never abridge the
natural rights of man, but in order to enlarge
and more effe&ually to secure the civil rights
of the citizen—and prote&ed by which every
orderly member of society may rejl in per fedftcu?
rity under his own vine and under his own Jig tret, and
none Jhall be found to make him ast aid* And howe
ver some may complain of the inequality of con
ditions resulting from the laws of property ; it
September 25, 1792.
[Whole No. 559.]
is plain that without I iws to regulate : t, pro
perty cairaot exist atyd the world mtift become
an uncultivated common. And it is evident
from the conducl «f tbe pooreli member of so
ciety, that-lie values the bleilings rel'ulting from
social order ami cultivated humanity, tar, far,
beyond thole which are to be found amongst the
lawless and lintored lavages of the wilijernefs.
But gentlemen it is never to be forgotten
that public and private virtue are thefole found
ations upon which a government like ours can
reft with fecnrity, and that its duration can on
ly be commeufurate with the prevalence of
those virtues- And in order to cultivate and
cheriih thele vita) principle of freedom, let
each individual constantly bear in mind, that he
is one of the links which conneftsthegrA.it
chain of a social' community, and that he has
duties of a public as well as of a private nature
afligned to him, for the faithful performace of
which he stands accountable to God and )iis
j country. And that between tbe duties of such
as fill the variod", departments of public admi
nistration, and of thoie who tread tbe private
walks of life, there are relations and cpnneftj
ons which never can be J'afcly mfto! ved, and
that performance of ti em mutually aid and
are aided by each other. Let him remember,
that the laws are the ligaments of fociety—tbe
ties-which connect mankind together in their
focln capacity—the rules which the people
themfelvc? |ui v e cftablilhed for tie regulation
ot their civil citnduft;—that courts of justice
are the organs by which tiie laws »re adraini
fiered, and that the executive magistrates are .
the instruments, to whom the people themselves
have Committed the duty of carrying into ef
feihial execution the decrees of thoe courts of.
justice. And efpecislly let each individual re
member, that in a republic like ours; in order
to give authority to the laws, energy to the
public ari» andrfignity to freedom, it is eflen
tiaj that the public count;nanee and support,
whenever it may be necessary, Ihoukt attend
the civil magiflrate in the lawtfll execution of
liis dntv. And that on the contrary to behold
amontft a free people, the open and repeated
tranfgrefflons of their own laws, without notice
or ceni'ure, to behold the civil magistrate refifi
ed and insulted, vainly calling on the people to
aid him in the execution of laws, is a melancbol
ly fpeftacle of ignorance dp piavity, i:
requires llDT"tht gift of prnph«*y to
that without more knowledge and more virtue,
such a people cannot long remain free ■ or in
the language of Montesquieu, " wilen in a po
pular government the laws are suspended, as
this only can happen from the corruption of the
republic, the state is certainly undone."
Most of you having served as grand jurQrs,
ar.d being consequently acquainted with the du
ties of your office, renders it unneceflary for
me to minutely enter into pxrtlcu ar
me only generally to observe that all capital
crimes what foe ver, as well as those of an infe
rior nature, such as mifprifions, contempt, oif
turbances of the peace, nui/ances, and all other
offences of a public evil example again ft the
common law, may be inditfed ; and it seems to
be a general ground, that Wherever a statute
commands any matter to be done, as the repair
of highways and bridge- ; or prdhibits any
thing as an offence aga'tnft the public order, os
conomy or morals, as gambling, horse racing,
tippling and other disorderly houles, whether
licensed or not—l fay it seems to be a general
ground that an offender such statute,
may be indi&ed for his contempt of the law.
FROM THE P£NXSYIVANIA GAZETTE.
No. 111.
OBsrt v at ions on the Letters of " A Farms*,''
Addtejjed to the Yeomanry of tie United Statu.
/(CONCLUDED.)
IN regard #o the funding system, the Hate of
the matter is briefly this. Immediately before
the adoption of the federal conilitution, the
United States were jointly or feveraliy indebted
to their creditors in the amount of about 74
millions of dollars. Qf this sum twelve mil
lions were foreign debt, principally due to or
guaranteed by France. One of the onjedfo of
the funding system was, to discharge this debt
by new loans, upon an interest not less favora
ble, and if pollibie, more advantageous. " Th£
Faß.mer" appears to be too friend to
the emancipation of France, to disapprove cf
this grateful, just and honorable part of the
funding system, which, however, has been over
looked by him and others, in their riiflertati®ns
againfl it. The domestic debt, which amount
ed to 62,000,000 dollars, in principal and inter
est, including the assumed debt, was at an in
terest; of about fix and one ninth per centum,
which on 42,000,000 of the principal of the fe
deral and afTumed debts, gives the sum cf
2,566,000 dollars. As the resources of the
country were not adequate to the discharge of
the interest, being about twenty millions ot dol
lars, it was plain, that public credit could net
be restored but by loans to pay off that interest,
which, if effected at the lov/eft rate of those
made in Europe (four p»r cent.) with the cus
tomary charges, would add 800,000 dollars to
the interest, and would increase the public bur
-1 dens to the annual sum of 3^3^i ooo^°^ars )
, clufive of the foreign debt. No other moQe
1 was left, but to reduce the capital, either ail<^*
T V creditors, or of the .purehafiri;; cieJ-.tur
which idea hid been rejected m
Virginia, Pennsylvania, Matfacbufetts, and"
vera" otn.-r Stnes, forming a larje inajoiit <•
£ attempt to r--.0u.. « ;
foUIC W, ) C i lWOU,.UudutC t - C •
Hat »ft.>? creditor, t.. a '•»" ' - ;
t. oft. The latter mode has beent. led . ..tc
,uUv, ami t-.ei.itereft will taereoy beared, .tt
to about four and one half per cent, includ
the fu'i value of the deferred debt, making"
anno al fmn of 2,79>p-j;>doSla<-^
that a J.VI»Z hiifaci" «J 5 1 v . '
an*U It b mTreover to be toa
the United State, have always
sum, whether l(.e debt v. u depreciate., n >
and that they ought therefore to have |hcw«1 -
la-oe the '.lev.,. : .f the o rig.;.-- '»
tracts, .V lith the old Co-.tgyM, and <c «
.lone, and which Penny Lama (the".
own State) and Maryland have hnce ( one, b
gWing more to the creditort(Without dixnuii
nation too) than Congress have done. It U »
to bo forgotten that Mongrels do not W
~ r-lc dollar, as they do not pay more than t .
contract, but, have induced the creditors '
c ,- lets—'hit the " Far MRU s own Stat.
;-ave fix percent, interest to a large numte.to
-le i.Untied creditors, who now ap.iee to tak
f.KS-and a half per cent, oft'.ongu'is and t.ia
Virginia pavs her creditors a greater mteret
ui her remaining St ire debt, without diluimi
nation—that all the forefen world anpiaud am
, U lire, as wife arrd efficient, the measures o:
t he general government to restore public creui,
—that "he credit of the Union is much bene.
than that of any one State, as is inamteft Iron
this fact, that the unaffuined debt ot ever;
■;-at -h 1 l'ij valuable than the debts ot
—that the " Farmer's" State enjoys a ver;
large part of the profits from the rife of tin
debt, by holding continental certii.cates, to ai
innienfe amount, procured for land;, at fix 'M"
)in<rs per acre, &rc. which they novf offer t k r oil.
Jhifiins in Ipecie—that they are exonerate,
from all their debts, by fcveral sales ot thei
public fc-curities, to the amount, in a linrie in
stance, of near a million ofdo'Jars —and it mouh
be particularly, very particularly
that the original creditors h-rve not funere.
from the re—, the debt by Congveis, but Iron
the neglect of the States to pay the intereit, o
their refufal to enable the old confederation ti
do it, before the eftabliftiment of the prefen
efficient government. If the Spates had not tie
predated the debt by such omiflions and reiuials
the peculators and gamesters, which the 4 * bar
MEr" mentions, would not have made thei
profits, nor would they ever he exited. Ihe
have manijejll) t>vn created by, and gro&n out of th
discordant a> d inadeq <dte financial operations oj th
Stater, which, 4v depreciating the debt, opened a dop
fer J'pcculation and gambling. .Had they fuftaine
the debt at its jolt and intrinlic value, by pay
ing only the interest and declaring the orinci)) j
Inviolable, the original creditor would not hay.
had cause to complain, nor would the purchase
have h id ail opportunity to peculate in the pro
pe: tv of tie soldier, the widow, the orphan
and the patriotic lender in the hour of publi
need. Tliefe are solid, unqueltionable truths
and will not be denied, nor can they be difpro
ved. The genoral government, on account o
an honest performance of old contrasts, ough
not be charged with consequences which ar
only afcribable to the want of justice, or th
want ftf ability, or the want of order and fyl
teifc it the State governments, during the tim
of the confederation. The difficult part, a juj
provision, has been executed bv the existing na
tional government, and it is entitled to all th<
merit of being an efficient instrument of publi
justice, nonor and prosperity. The impartia
foreign world consider the conduct of the fede
ral legislature in this honorable light at the p e
sent moment.
In regard to the eftabliftiment of banks, i
that were<ci crime or a public injury, it inigh
b? fairly asked who set the example ? The flat
of which « The Farmer," from the place o
publication, is presumed to be a citizen. Thi
power of ifluing paper was unlimited in the char
ter granted by that State, but is careful];
guarded "by the ast of Congress establishing thi
bank of the United States. Other State legif
latures have been guilty «f the crime of efta
bliftiing bauks. But it is become too plain tha
Congress may not do, without censure, the sam
things, which are unnoticed or applauded whei
done by a State. With refpeft to the opportu
nity, which u The Farmer" alled2;es is givei
to a few men to acquire what he calls llgppid
fortunes, it is impossible to give rational an
fwer.to it, because it is not poflible to afcertai
his meaning. His presumptive meaning reft
upon the fame principle as his ideas about th
pubile debt, and, on a lair cftimate and sum
ming up of the account, would really amount ti
this, that feeing that former meafure c , or ne
glefts, or disorders in the States, or in the oli
confederation had occafioncd a depreciation o
the public fccurities, or certificates, tind fevera
other large portions or descriptions of property
the genera), government ought tobeheidrel
ponfible for all the past evils resulting from fuc
injuries to the original owners of those proper
ties, if they should by wife and honest measure
restore them to their uatural and proper value
though such restoration ftiould not cost the peo
pie of tie United States one dollar more tha
their old government had solemnly promised ii
their behalf to pay.
The last charge in u The Farmer's" im
peachment is, that the United States have ena<sl
ed an excise law, which provides for the col
lection M* aiower excise (by near two-pence per
gallon) from the people of Pennsylvania than
they Weil obliged to pay by a law of their own
State when the federal constitution Was adopt
ed, and at the very moment when the ast of
Congress waspafted. It may be fairly asked in
regard to 4< The Farmer" did he ever petition
the legislature of Pennsylvania to repeal their
excise ast laying the above higher duty, or (if
he has ever been a member of the legislature of
the Stat") M-iiv tie r.ot move in his plate for
tlie S>tat-/ . j which has ev ;
7erv year,.' But Congreft;
haCe preiutW, tl-at oi
.",i~ . t'-i State, which lian ai equal excile,
'' mild 'sici-ji i'evere in their teniu.es upon
>h~m f«r fallowing «■' example laying an cxtil
uin.n fiiirit", which was let by thennelves. fbe
fed-rd le-iflaturc could not but prelume, tnat,
thu, the Vop:. of the United States veit«f.
thein, in express terms, with the powei of ra
f. ,5 money by excii'e, they might mnocen t.ye
-r< ilo tli.lt power- They knew too, tnat Ma
7'chufctts l'A Connecticut had fit examples o
t L Ein.c kind, and that tho:e too staves and
Pe.mlvlva.iia contain within one ' xt^
moifity ot'tne f,« people of
It km«v„, tnat .he.c. »e.te nt
more 'tin* four orfivef.ee government p
the face of the earth, and that eacu 9*. ' h _ L "'|
collected money by excile. 'X he °9 et £ * d
them in England Were examined, and wei e tou .
'tobe two that trial h "/ v
a „d therefore Congrefi provided I:hat jurjM:n.js
lhould be had in all cases under then excite aw
and 2dly, it was objected that the Miingor m. n
jton houjc of the citizen ni S h ' k
: really rotlrved exclusively as a dwelling,
: be enters at the pleasure of an esc.e °&c,
ancf onlv after formal information be)lopi 3 c
vil magistrate, upon oath, and t'wn oil» tU
day time jnd in company with a civil office' ~
and that The excise offices should be confine .
in their own searches to the aav ,
to the places, which were previously
to be intended for the v,lt of ftonn £ or mak ng
diftflled ipirits. If a perlon does not P c y c \
the difference between the Bnt.fo le ia
and that of the United States two g ea
and elfcntial particulars, it really must Uttipm ]
<vant of that sober attention and
conf,deration, with which the laws ecu
con'rttfy in the world ought to be .cad 3 ex
amined by every refleftmg, worth), well
tentioned citizen. . |f
In the 11th page " l®"7 , ...
uUmeroiis expressions of concern tor equa.ity ol
advantages, Lid for the poorer citizens, under
takes to make the following aflertion, that
the rich neceflarily in' all countries adniimfte.
government, for they alone (fays he) have fith
> and leisure for its functions That part of
: the yeomanry of the United State,, • wno are,
■ not wealthy, need no comment upon a deciara
, tion, that those of them who are not ' itch
- reallv are inadequate to the duties of govern
- ment frdni want of the requifit# knowledge.
► Though it might be aiked here, whether tie
" Farmer" can be the friend of the people, I
will rather do that writer the juftireto believe,
tHat ho reallv did not mean all lie lays m the
above paflage, but at the fame time it is to be
hoped, that it will encreafe the weighty argu
ments which refle&ion will fnggett to men oi
undemanding, not to place their faith upo.
" The Farmer's Letters."
Foreign Affairs.
W A R S A W, July I J
THE new constitution, the termi
nation of which we have long
apprehended, is at length at an end.
On Sunday night, the Rullian Mi
nilter delivered the final answer of
h.is Imperial Miflrefs, to the King, in
which (he declares her determination
of re-eltablilhing the ancient conftt
tution, and of supporting to the ui
moft of her power, the confederation
of Targo vii z.
The rapid advance of the Ruffian
troops, and the determined language
of her'lmperial Majesty, left King
Stanislaus no alternaiive ; he, there
fore, on thp following morning, as
fcnibled the nobles, commuijicated
to them the Empress's determinati
ons, and at the fame time recommend
ed, to prevent the further effufions of
blood and difineinberment of the
kingdom, to submit to a temporary iu
cono-iiitncs, to revoke the conltitution
fettled on the 3d of May, 179 1 . to re "
llore (lie ancient form of government,
and to submit the arbitration of the
different,-J between the people of Po
land aud the Euiprefs, to the three
rebel Counts Potocki, Rzeivufki, and
Branicki—and proposed, in compli
-ance with a requifiiion from the Elll
press, that Prince Poniatowfki fliould
be recalled, and Count Branieki in
vested with the command of the ar
my, when the Aflembly was by no
means unanimous in the adoption of
l'entiments.
A strong party, of which M. Mala
chofki, Mai ihal of the Diet—Prince
Sapicha, MarfhaJ of Lithuania—M.
Potocki, jun.—and M. Soltick, were
at the head, opposed the pacific pio
pofuions of his majesty, and declared,
that the king having defer ted the
conrtitution, the conlVitution wirhoui
the king, iliould repel the ambitious
and oppreffivc views of all its ene
•"■ies, or finking, (hould bury thou
lands in its ruins.
Eighteen thousand Atiftnans form
a cordon on the frontiers of Gallicia,
146
«
io 000 Prussians are flattened on the
fronue.s oS Silesia ; who, as the Em
pre*ls ia her letter declared, were
leady to enforce her requisitions.
All Lithuania oppofeft. the reltora
tio.. of the old form of government,
and the people throughout the Jung
dom avc so much attached to the new
constitution, ihat (honld the E.i.prefs
; c'li ry the poinr, a general infuirec
ion will undoubtedly take place, and
a civil war Hiult be the coniequence.
M A N H E J M, Auguit 2.
Last night the Adrian army, 1111-
«Ur Prince Van Hohenloe, wbiaii was
polled at SchWetzengen, began their
march. he Mai qijis de bwnUe ar
rived the (kiy before i lie infantry
pafi'ed tlie Rhine Ketfch, and the
horse ciolibd over the bridge near
tliis city. I bis anny, which is 25,800
lli ong, will encamp in ilie neighbor
hood of Spiers and Philipfbuig, in
order to be nearer the Klfas, as the
Trench have an army of 40,000 men
at Gernierfheiin, near Landau.
DarmJfaJt, near Manheim, Aug. ?■
I write from the general quarters
of Prince de Conde. Our corps of
French emigrants amounts to 6,000,
and we are marching to Landau. By
Sunday we (hall be before the gates.
Tfie body of, Auftrians of Sehwetzen
gen is 22,000 llrong, and is \vjthin
three leagues of it, within the French
'territory. We are afliired that the
emigrants which garrison the place
are well affetfed, and that offers have
been made to the Prince de Conde to
deliver up the town. 'Ibis inltant a
messenger is arrived, and it is laid or
ders will be given for our immediate
departure, tho' inarched a! - j
ready upwards of 8 leagues during
the heat of this sultry day. The
Prussians have entered France by
Deux Pouts ; the Prince of Bourbon
on the fide of Flanders,and tlieCompte
d'Artois by Luxembourg. For two
nights I havp not slept, and 1 lojg to
indulge mvfelf with a little clean
ft, a w, which chance has thiowa in
my. way.
Augufl 7. The French General Kel
lermaii, who commands the army near
Landau,has drawn up his forces with
in the lines of Wifl'emburg. The Im
pel ial army is encamped between
Germerflieim and Spiers, and Gene-
A FREEMAN,
ral Erbach is before Landau wit.
10,000 men. It is ("aid to be the plan
of General Prince Hohenlohe to drive
General Killerman out of the lines,
in which cafe Landau must fall ;
6,c00 men defend Landau, and when
of 12,000 Pruflians, who
are expected by the lull, arrive, we
expect a decisive Itroke.
As the pallions a of men begin to j
fubfidc, we are enabled to collect
more accurately the particulars oh
the late tumult. To procure arms
the populace broke open the gates of
the Arsenal, and several of the build
ings near the I'huilleries were let on
fiie.—The mirrors, and part of the
furniture in the Palace were deltroy
ed ; but those who attempted to car
ry away any thing privately were
punished with inltant death. Many
of the citizens, by wr.y of triumph,
carried the bloody clothes of the
Swiss on the points of their lances.
Amidtl these fccnes of horror, the
women (hewed no signs of that fenfi
bility natural to their sex, and many
of them mixed boldly among the
mob. Towards 8 o'clock the light,
of the flames, the approach of night,
and the fight of many dead bodies,
particularly those of the Swiss expos
ed quite naked, exhibited a fpedtacle
awful and horrid beyond description.
—The mob in their fury seemed de
termined to destroy every veltige of
. Royalty ; the ftatuesof all the kings
were overthrown ; not even except
ing that of the great Prince Henry
IV. At the throwing down that of
Louis XV several people weie killed,
and others much 1 hurt. Every
fignboard,which had the King's head,
was destroyed ; and the Setftion of
Marseilles have resolved to petition
the Aflembly, that the words " The
King," on the buttons of the Nation
al Guards, be erazed, to give place
to those of " Liberty ! Lquality!"—
Daring the general confufion, M. Pe
tion's father, a venerable old man,
was carried about in triumph by the
citizens, who congratulated him on
PARIS, August i J
having given birth to him whom the
styled their realjritn4 Ihet ii J,''
killed at the Caltle have be( „ j,*. *,'*
red vviih military honors.—l al j s vv .
illuminated lad night, and every
tiling remains quiet at present.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
August 12.
The fifteen Southern departments
of r ranee have opened a fubferiptiou
!of three millions of livres, to be dif
nibuted in rewards for taking the
lives of the principal persons concern
ed in the league against tiie French,
which are offered in these funis.
For the Emperor ( 400 xo
The King of Pruflia 4x>,oot>
The Duke of Brurvvick , 400,000
Stanislaus Zavicr Montxur 350,000
tiha'lei Phiiippt D'Aituis 300,00 a
Louis Joleph Conde 200,000
Louis Henri Joseph Bourbon
Bouille l'iiii'ame 200,00>
Lambe]c 100,000
Brojrlio ■ 0 100,000
Milabeau Tonneau 100,000
Calomie 3 >,000
What remains, to be employed 111
rewards to thole who may lliit in
deifrnyiiig any other principal parti
zaii in the league. «"
M. Robertfpierre cametd the hw,
at the head of'a deputation.fr«in tW
feftioii of the Place Vendome. ~H<>
informed'them, that 011 the rains of
the proud pedestal of the tyrant Lou
is XIV. they had eret'ted a pyramid
in honor of the citizens who had pe
rilhed in fighting for liberty. The
fix criminal tribunals of Paris came
and took the new oath of liberty and
equality.
A fervnnt belonging to M. la Fay
ette found means to ieave Paris on
the night of the ioili, and to proceed
directly lo the place where the Gene
ral was encamped. He has (ince re
turned to Paris, and has deposed be
fore the municipality, that thearmy,
which at fit ft w.ft'yi great commoti
on, had unanimously determined to
lupporc the Afleinbly.
L O NDON, August 12.
By the official dispatches received
yclterday from the Britith Minifler, 1
at the court of bilbun, we learn, ttac
the Portuguese have joined the league'
agaiuit Fiance.
The scattered remains of tfceßegi
cide Ankerlhom, were 011 the 23d
ult. ilolcn frcpii the diffeienc plwe*
where they were exposed
August j6. _
Whitehall, JVednefday Morning,.
AuguJ} IJ . |
" Mr. Auft presents his compJi
nentsto Mr.Taylor.Maflerof LlojcjV
Coffee Honfe, and acquaints hini,a-;
►reealily to his retjiiett, that a fflef:
"enger arrived this morning'
>aris, with the news of a cotnuiotldli
m Friday, in which the inoli Wiled
he greatest part of the Swiss Guards,
vho defended the TbiiiHerie*. <«*i
b several persons of diltiniTtioo ? a
nonglt whom 'was M. Clermont IFoU
lerre, and deft.oyed the
)f the Palace, and all thi put
nffS adjoining. At the brfcint)ing«:
ht (unmlt, the King, to*
he Royal Family escaped acrow t.fte
rarden to the Rational Aflepibtyj l,l
i' room adjoining ro «liich rt>»y c®n
iu'ued 011 Sunday, whence roeUrt'
rer fei out. On Fridayihe
lecreed, that the Executive ?<**«<;
vas withdrawn from the King, as
hat, for the present, g^f rnn,e °l
hould be entrusted Min j® er ,®.'
heir nomination. That f>.
hould be lydged ii> fomt pJ*«»
afety, and lb* C ' vi^
■ontinued. That the
>lie» (hould be convened or . i
nit. in order to appo.nt a N«
Convention to meet at Pans ® , _
soth of September, to dcc.de
y upon the forfeiture of t
ind the mode of eftablilhwg
tlf that i» addifi.n««
lie Royal Family, the . Na "^ B L d ,
"embly mean torefer>"n.he of
the wives, children and reh
the emigrants as hostage * - nccS cour
they may retaliate any vloleo / C . S l
mined b'y the »uke of Brunf«££
any par: of the con.b.nedI
There is,therefore, too much g
o dread that .his
narked with all the fang
jf civil war. „,.nMnn. that
Letters from France Reflux
M. de Florida Blanca 4,1 wbere
3 n his journey »o l ' ie C ? ' n fi n ed.
ae had beeivordered to be connn
J
AL E M, Sfrptember 25.
Mr. Brown, of New man, pfhire, of
U m It was lately publilhed that lie
wwltiHed in a brick-yard by a gang
after having flai.. two ot
them in the ftroggle, declares
he .< yET LIVES. —' tne j*
"ere Indians lurking in the neigh-
Winn woods at the time when the
report® a. current, 1 believe (he fays)
j s a matter of truth ; and poflibly my
r e lf may have been their object , but
of this we have uo certainry : that
t hey did not deprive me ot lite, is a
*"l ys H nufacture .—Mr.' Ben -
Ufflin Tohnfo'n, of Lynn, has (hipped,
this year, to the finl of Aug. twenty
tkoufand fix hundred and tour pair
«f Shoes, made by his workmen—
averaged at 4a. "iod. which makes
T AOIO • 6 : o J the Itock is elbuiated
« one half. Besides these, Mr. John
ifon has fold large numbers in the vi
cinity.—To such industrious men is
our country indebted for its piefpc
rity. '
HARTFORD, Otftober t.
Last Tuesday the Circuit Court for
the diftrid'of Connecticut curo.tnen
ced their session in this city—Present,
the honorable Judges Wilton, Iredell
and Lhw. His honor Judge WiHon
addrefl'ed an elegant and pertinent
Charge to the Grand Jury, in which
he expatiated, great* force, and
beauty of language, updn the excel
lence of the institution of juries, as
well as upon the particular duties of
orand jurles. We are happy, howe
ver, in announcing to the public, the
dismission of the grand-jury, without
a single presentment.
We are equally happy in mention
ing to the public that, two of the
Judges have, .notwirlfftanding some
objections, consented to aift as Coin
miflionersin executing the Pension
Their candor and indulgence
in proceeding to the laborious talk of
examining the claims of the nume
rous applicants fur jienfions, a taflc
which, in their opinion, their duty
doei not require them to undertake, do
great honor to their humanity and
compalfion.
"THENTON, (N.J.) Oft. ?.
Yesterday the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Middle Di!lric r t
met in this town. The Hon. Chief
Justice Jay btfing prevented by sick
ness from attending, the Hon. Judge
Cushing delivered an elegant ud
drefs to a refpeiTtable grand-jury—
Wheij some cailfes being noted for
trial, the court proceeded to business.
for tie GAZETPE of the UNITED stATES.
THE REPUBLICAN.
No. I
THE enemies of our government insinuate that
the bank and the fyfLm of public c red it tend
to raise up great men to the prejudice of that equal
liberty which we now ertjoy. A certain Gazette
feeins to have been set up and kept in pay, in or
der to inculcate that opinion, and lev bring tlvfr
into abhorrence who arc pretended to have con
trived and supported those inOjKirion&for the pur
pole. Thcfc insinuations spare very few, from
the head of the government and its officers, to the
members ot Congress, and even to the
holding the property depending on these hated
According to this primary intention, we
entertained with such auxiliary scandal as the
wit and inouft'y ot the inventors can supply. We
are told twice a week, that public men make mo
'lcy by (peculation, the conrt is fafcinated with
its own glare and splendor, the corrupt minions
of power engross the government, the virtuous
old lepublicaris lament ihe decay ot the fpjrit ot
1 775"~ isa part/ silently paving the way for
a monarchy. Let any man read the Gazettes with
attention, and he will fay that if the government
and those who adminiller it be not the word on
earth, they arc (certainly the very worfl treated.
It is not easy to suppose that their foul suggestions
can, with any truth, be applied to a government
new and frefh from the hands of a sober and vir
tuous people—and this conviclion would go far
towards refuting the malicious pretence, that the
bank and funding acts v/ere made with an inten
tion, and that they really have a tendency, by
fifing up great men, to impair the equal rights ot
the citizens.
In every thriving nation the wealth of individu
als will augment. The savings of indullxy will
m a fund which will bt* inceflantly on the in
crcjfe. "The employment of this accumulating
capital will afford a profit, and this very profit
wll furnifh a new cayfe of Iwelling the wealth
of thccountry. No man will fay that to prevent
£'eat men, we will fuffer no rich men among us.
- 1 Un less you stop the course of inr*iftry, so as to
pi event its ulual earnings, and contrive by law to
hinder men from laying up what they chufe to
dv c in their expences, this capital wilT f<vcll in
j'nie into a great mass. But any attempt to regu
late th: gaining or spending piivatc property,
ill accord with our notions of a free govcfn
mentj'and wc are well allured such regulations
could never be carried into effect. The bank and
tunding fyilem cannot therefore be deemed me
foarce ot the political evil which is supposed to
lurk in the increase of the wealth of individuals, !
fiuce the human character will not ceale to pro-j
ducc it, to long as fcparate property is permuted.
We shall not readily fubm.it to ihc rigid laws of
for the fake of bamming gold and til-!
ver. Nor is it iteceiiary that a remedy •to repug
nant to nature, and Inflow and difficult* of opera,
noo, ihVild be applied to cure the ill elfetts .of
wealth. The means ot education are to Uiftufed,
that the many are incited and qualified to gain
ichei as well as the tew—The power ai ifiug trom
property will be every where ballanced oy the
multitude oi the Our laws too, have
provided an eiiettual means ot preventing over
sown fortunes from remaining long undivided.
The riiHt ot primogeniture is abojithed, entails
ire cut off, * J d piopeitv is dfvideti among the
several heirs* A elfcate will be fe»e>rt
down into the common -inafv. Thele confideia
tions lecm to remove the grounds of apprehen*
Gon, which lome have entertained, of our being
on the decline ,i'iom thatjutfc equality of cirCum
stances to well adapted to a republican equality
ot rights.
Another rcfle&ion renders this confutation com
plete. It is a lound remark, that thole who hold
the land of any country, will bold the power,
livery day new diyifions of the old farms are mak
!iior-—new teulenvcnis are forming : the farmers
find a better market for their produce than torm
!c«W : their (kill in hufbandiy, their wraith and
influence as well as information, are rapidly in-
Tiiis is 10 -trn-, that where the mouieo
interell has gained at) ounce weight, the landed
mtprcil, lift vail and tin iving is our country, has
gained-a.pound.
tvei' if it were true, that the property in the
bank, and the funds were created out ot nothing,
the pretended influence to deitroy the equality oj
our -4 to pear $ to be mfuHicient tor trie pnr
pofe. It would be a shallow fchemc in politics,
For has congrtfs provided that this prqpeity 111 all
be entailed to the eldetl lon ; thai the pjplent pol-
Iclf'jr ftiall tujt j»ait with it arid thereby destroy
the tie that ii (uppofedlq~bind htm to the govern
ment ; Jutt the contrary. Tne hauk bills,pub
lic paper and stock, pah> aa money lo rapidly 1 , that
no permanent cbnne£tiou can exitk between the :
holders and the government; One would fup
po!e that the Spanish dollars had created among
the Americans, a strong attachment to the king ot
bpain. Thii however, has not inamteiked Ktelf
in any dangerous icaft, our munnurcrs
hjive not lntovmed us.
But neither the bank nor fund:/; laws, have
created a dollar o' new property. It is true,
the new facility to trade and Circulation, produc
ed by thofelaws, has operated to the advantage of
the nation, as certainly as (and more permanently
than) an addition of silver and gold. Neither of
t Pro I e systems was firft begun in our country by
congress. The states had their banks, and had at
tempted to retrieve public credit before the con-
Uitution Was adopted.
Tlie enemies of government could not fee the
'ame mifchiets ftatc banks and (ia*e credit.
No fooncr, however, d>d congress touch thoic
fubjefh, no fooiier did iuccefs follow the milage
of those laws, thau»the foothfayeis augured. iuiti
from thefc a&s, unheard of, they said, among re
publicans, and framed for the purpofc ot creating
loids 10 oyp(f('s the landholder*.
It i/nor ina i rial to difeufs the ijuellion, wheth
er this (illy ftdry can be credited by those who >
(ell it. To thole who think so illy ol human na
ture, as to believe that mifchiel is always intend
ed whenever it can be done, it will be enough
shew, that the means in question were not well
adapted to the pretended design, and therefore,
could not have been qhofen by men so wife and so
wicked, as the gazette supposes the public men qf
this country to be. The leader will judge how
| far this has been (hewn. In another paper, the
toiler, if He (hould have lcilure, will endeavor to
(hew from the nature of those laws, as well as from
general the utter falfity of the charges
which have been urged againll them and their
framers. >
Philadelphia, 061.6.
Succinfl account of affairs in Paris, an the qth, 1 Oth,
- -r .» ni.n
i iM, &c. of Augujl lajl.
On the 9th, M. Condorcet in the name of the
extraordinary commiftion, stated to the Nation
al Allembly the various confiJerations connected
with the grand qijeftiojrof the Ring's forfeiture.
This pri;l*ipally of enquiries which
appeared to be decided by the committee t'lem
felves, who fay that at any rate the tfecifion ol
the AiTembly, -whatever fide of the queflion
they adopt, will inflame the paflions of the mul
titude, and the public tranquility will of course
be endangered.
M. Petion appeared at the bar—he (aid that j
a rumour having been spread that a plot was;
formed to carry off the King—the people had af-j
fembled at the Thuilleries to prevent it —detach-
ments of the National Guards had been ported
at the palace—and he believed the perlon of the
King was therefore in fafety. M. Petion re
commended to the AiTembly to pursue lenient
and persuasive measures with the enraged po
pulace as the most likely to prevent excefles.
The AiTembly, considering the present dan
gerous situation of the capital, decreed, that,
till order be restored there fliall be a permanent,
fitting. At midnight the alarm bell founded in
every quarter of the city—the general was beat, (
and the citizens hurried to arms ; soon
the afTembly were informed that M. Petion was
detained in the palace as an hostage for«the
King's fafety.
The aflembly ordered thatMie fiiould appear
at the bar—he soon appeared, and reported the,
measures he had adopted for the .public fafety—
he was applauded —and desired to return to his
duty ; soon after the hall of the aflembly was
surrounded bv an immense croud of people, some
of whom called o%t tlyit the court had become
the focus of the counter-revolution—and that
every law ought to be suspended, and give place
to that supreme law; the safety of the public.
August 10 —Friday morning—as day light
approached, the minister of justice entered the
147
hall imploring for the King the prtfte&ion of the
Assembly—while the assembly were deliberating
upon the molt proper ipeafunes to be
in this awful and alarmiug crisis; they were
informed that the whole of the municipality,
excepting M: Petion, M. Manuel and M. Dan.
ton, were fuperceded in their offices by eftar
blifhin£4 new temporary admiuiftration by the
people, yhich they denominated a general coun
! cil of the community.—That M. Santerre was
' placed at the head of the public force, who was
fjrbid 11 obey the ftaff officers, or any authori
ty, but them. The Assembly were again inter
rupted in their deliberations by news of attro
cities committing in different quarters of the
city. Some courtiers had been arretted—fome
of the King's guards, and an Abbe ; an alarm
was spread—the battalion of Marleilles, and oi'
federates from the different departments be
jca:i to fill the avenues to the palace and the af
lembiy—'demanding vengeance on the traitors
tiiey } had seized —-The unfortunate vi&ims un
derwent a mock trial, were convicted, and ex
ecution immediately followed ; they were put
to death in different forms, and their heads car
ried about on poles. M. Sullan, the Editor of
a ministerial paper, and the Poix for
merly commander of jftie body Of guards were
among the number. About iline o'clock almost
every person who could procure arms hurried
to the Thuilleries—calling out for the detlv'oue
mertt of the King.—The King attended by the
>wifs.rsghr&nt of lards, with the Queen, his
sister and children proceeded to the National
Aflembly—he placed himfelf beside the Preiident
— >ut that the Assembly might con&itutionallv
deliberate, he was desired to remove into one
of the boxes appropriated to the Editors of
newspapers. The assembly then font 10 com
miilioners to endeavor to appease the people ;
in the mean t#ie the detachments of the na
tional guards —citizens anjied with pikes—the
Marieillefe and federates attacked the palace,
wfticn was guarded by a boiy of Swils ; these
haid t>reffed by those who came again ft them
were "at length compelled to fire in their own
defence, and at firff put the mob to flight—but
being reinforced they rallied again and com
menced a heavy fire on their opponents —the
gate*; at'laft being opened or forced, an obstinate
combat ensued—the Swiss defending themfelyes
with great bravery, and the attack oa them
being continued with fury—the Swiss were at
length obligfed to yield to iuperior force, and
atmoft to a man were butchered —they however
fold their lives dear, killing several hundreds ot
their opponents. Among the victims facrificed on
this occasion besides the Swiss guasds and their
Colonel, M. d'Affrey, were, the Abbe Bouillon,
MefTrs. Carle, Mandat and many others. Attei
the mob had got poileilion of the im
mense crowd burst into the several apartments;
some of whom carried to the Aflembly the
OueenY jewells, valuable effe&s, money, and
important papers. The furniture, after being
inventoried, was taken to the fedVions, and the
papers to the committees of fafetj.—During
this tumult, while the noise of cannon was
heard in the alterably, and several iliots <?v;en
entered the windows, the members ftill'contin
ued their deliberations —the Jacobin party ex
.claiming liberty 1 equality J and all railing
tiieir hands to heaven and swearing they would
die to save their country.
Many members being absent, a call of the
house was ordered ; this being decrecd each
member took the following oath : " 1 swear
in the name of the nation, to maintain liberty
and equality, or die at my post." They then
pafled a decree, providing for calling a National
Convention, suspending the executive power,
the civil lift ; the fix minillers in office to exer
cise the executive power—the King and royal
family to remain under the protection oi the
legislative body, till the department lliaH pro
vide apartments for them at Luxembourg—
mean time to be under thefafeguard of the law,
and their defence entrusted to the national
guard of Paris; all magistrates, officers and
soldiers who shall quit their posts to be declared
infamous and traitors to their country.
, Saturda-v, August '>• On motion of M. Brif
fot, the aifembly declared, that the fix minis
ters had loft the confidence of the nation ; upon
which they (Jecreed, that fix,others (hould be
chosen in theif room, from among themftlves;
they also chose three cOmmiffionAs to be sent
to eacli army. A decoe® ofaccufation was pas
sed again# M, Dobancourt, formerly minister
of, war, for not having dismissed the King's
Swiss guards.
Augnft 14. This morning a letter was read
in from the commissioners sent to
the army of the centre, the letter informed that
they were received every where on the road
with blessings and the nioft ardent testimonials
of patriotism. . At Soiflons they had calmed the
miqds of the people, which had been thrown in
to a ferment by inaccurate accounts ot events in
tlie capital. The city of Rheims was illumina
ted on account of the King's being depofecf A
letter written in German, found in the pocket
of one of the Swift guards, was read in the As
sembly, and sent to the Court Martial. In this
letter the SWiss announced, that in 15 days the
Auftnans would be in Paris; that his regimei>t
would join tliem, to exterminate all who might
( prove unfaithful to the King. He added that
their pay had befcn augmented, and that tljiugh
provisions were dear, they wanted for nothing.
Among the various reasons ailigned for the
violent rrteafures of the people oi Paris against
; the King, one is, that he willingly declined ftnd
iog supplies tpr the frontiers- . ,
In contempiating„the.ri!*e, progreH) and rtlult
of measures pursued by the predominating par
ty in Paris, there appears to be a regular chain
of events leading to the fatal scene exhibited
at the palace of the Thjjiileries. The commu
nity, of Paris had lately suspended tbe Mayor
and M. Manfal; in order to effect a concert of
operations, the police oft he city was fiibverted
by the feftions, and a new system ihtroduced,
ia which only three members of the preceding
body were retained. The national guards on
the 23th June, bad given strong fympto/ns of
their attachment to the King—A new comm&>
der was therefore appointed in M. Sai.terre.
Detachments were made from the guards ; theic,
united with the Marieillele and Federate.,
tormed a powerful force, which cmld be de
pended on ; the command of wliich devolved
on IVi. Suntetre, who was not to obey the exit
ing lupe 4 ior oJiiters. This forte thus
and which appears to have been done at the ex
igency of the moment, ejected theobjeft which
the w ho<e bnmx-ls bears ltrong appearancss ct"
having l>een determined on.
M. MaiUat who was as above men
tioned, wa? Commandant of tie National Guard
M. Sullan was Secretary to the Queen ; about
20 women who belonged to the C*ourt were
drowr.ed, they lied tp the biidje and threw
themselves over the bailaftrade. 60of theSwiis
who eleaped at the palace were afterwards fa
crificed by the populace at the place de Grave.
The new Mlniitry as ar^poLuted hy the Na
tional are M. Danton, Minillcr of
Justice ; M. Le lirun, of foreign aiFairs—-M.
Holland, 01 the interior, M. Servan of War—
M. Monge, of marine-*M. Briflot de Claviere,
minister of contributioP;.
Letters said to have been written bv the
Queen of France have been publifned ; the pa
pers in opposition to the rating party have been,
(topped.
<*>n Monday la,(I an ele&ion was held at New
ark in New-Jersey, fbr Dir . ftors of the Nation
al Manufactory for the enfumg year, when the
following gentlemen were vi 7*
John Bayard, James \Vat]on,feattbe.w Clark
fon, Nicholas Lo-rv, James Parker, Benjamin
Walker, Archibald Mercer, Eliftia Boudinot*
Abijah Hammond, Cornelius R.ay, Herman Le
James Rickets, and Matthias Williamfon.
The following gentlemen ate proposed, in the
Federal Gazette, as Candidates for Re pre fen ta
tives of this City i n't ha Le'giflature of this Com
mon wealth, viz.
George Latimer, John Benjamin.
R. Morgan, Jacob Hiluheiiner, and llenry
Kam merer.
Neither the Pirtfburgh Gazette, or other pa
pers from theweftward, receivedby'yelterday's
post contain any thing new-
Last X ue fday, an aflociation of Eajltift
churches, convened at the Baptist meeting
lioiife in this city ; tjie introductory sermon
was preached by the Rev. Doctor Rogers, after
J which the Rev. Mr. Isaac Swllman was choleu
moderator, and theßevr. Mr. Hurgiss Ali.i
---| Son, clerk. Their fefiions closed last evening.
l>y a letter from Capt. John Rogers, to Go
vernor Lee, of Virginia, dated August 5, 179 2 >
in the Territory jSouth of the Ohio. — : it appears
that a series of most cruel murders and depre
dations have been committed 011 the Frontiers
in that quarter ; and principally by the Creeks.
The number of men women and cJpJdnan killed
firice January 1, 179-, amounts to 63, and the
number of horles stolen to 400. There was a
treaty to be held the 6th of August in the dif
tri& of Mero—6oo of the Chicafows and 110 of
the had arrived op the ground.
A Tontine is now on foot at Albany—the ob*-
jest of which is the building of a public Coffee
House and Exchange in that City.
The statue ot'Loub XIV, lately thrown down
a* Paris, had flood Wo years, the 14th July,
1789 —the day omMrtikh the revolution took
plate; which prepared the way for its over
throw. f
■ By a return made to his excellency the Go
.vernor, there has been exported from thilciw,
during the months of July, August and
tember, 89,729 barrels of flour, and 2,331 bar
rels of middlings.
"\Ve hea'froin Wilmington, N. C. that Jofhna
Lee, whom we mentioned in a late paper to
have been committed for the murder of Capt.
George Brown of Bladen, was acquitted at tj;e
late court, the jury bringing in a verdict of
" man flaugli'er."
On Tuesday, the 24th ult. the annual com
mencement of Queens College, in Brunfwick,
New-Jersey, took place ; The trufteei, teach
ers, and Undents, assembled at the College-Hall
from whencetireyproceeded totheDutchChurch,
where the preparatory religious and literary ex
ercises being performed ; the degree of Mailer
of Arts was conferred on eleven—and that of
Bachelor of Arts on fix gentlemen.
The degree of Docftor of Medicine was con
ferred 011 Nicholas Romavne, M. D. ot Edin
burgh—Jonas SmitlrXcTtfams, llenrv M ; V
Solingen, and Jabez Canfield ; the degree of
Bachelor in Medicine'on'Francis Ruitord, John
B. Ruitofd, and Charles Smith.
A locking mafiacre of three Clergymen,
who had spent upwards of fourfcore years in
theexercife of the duties of their funftions,re
cently took place in a village adjacent to
Bourdeanx, in France. They were seized by
the populace and put ta death, with circnm
ftances of barbarity, which outrage every
feeling of civilization.
Thele men were, M. Langoirant, grand vic
ar, dean and profeffor of the univei'fitv ; Le
pere Pannetier, an aged carmelite,friar,and the
Abbe du Puv, ancient vicar of St. Michel :
they had been looked upon by the inhabitants
»of the village, as the guardian angels of their
[ fafety.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Urig Bet fey, Eaglcfon, St. Andero.
Schooncr Sails, Lover trig, Cdft-Francob-
Polly, Hopkins y ' Virginia.
Sloop AQive, Hamilton, do-,
Nancy, Stephens,
Ranger, Gladding, Rhode-IJland.
Polly, Chrjfholm, Norii-Csrotiha.
PRICE OF STOCKS
6 pei Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred;
Full lhares Bank U. S. 48
60
$ (hares,
2'A £ Int. off.
*a/ 6
pci cent, prem.General Poft-Office.
Philadelphia, Sept. 10,1792.
PROPOSALS will be received at this Office
until the fifteenth day of November next, in
clusively, tor carrying the Mails of ihe Unit'd
States on the following Post from the fi'ft
day of January next, uatil the firil day ut June,
1 794- ,
in Massachusetts and N re.
1. From Wtjcajjct to Portland d-ttn&of
Maine : 10 leave Wileaflet every Tuesday
by fix o'clock in the morning, and ar at Port
land the next day by one in the airernoon : —i<e-
turning, to leave Portland every I'hurfday by fix
in the morning, and arrive at Wilcaflct the next
day by one in the afternoon.
2. Fiom Portland to Portjmoulh : The mail to
leave Puitland every Monday and Thuifdav by
fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Ppril
mouih every Tuesday and Friday by ten nj the
forenoon:—Returning, to leave eve
ry Tuesday and Friday at one in the afternoon,
and arrive at Portland on Wednesday and Satur
day by fix in the evening.
3. From / ortfmouth torn ojlon : From November
fiilt to Mayfirit, the mail to leave Porifinouih
every Tuelday 3nd Fiiday, at two o'clock in the
afternnoon. and arrive at BofH>n on Wednesday
and' Saturday by fix in the evening : —Returning,
to leave Boston every Monday and Thu'fday, b)
fix m the mot ning, and arrive at Pordiffioui on
Tuesday and Fiiday by ten tothe forenoon : — And
from May fir it to NoVembei ftf ft, the mail to leave
Poitfrnouth eveiy Tqffddy, Thursday and Satur
day, by lour in ihe morning, and airive at Bollon'
the fame day j by-fix' in the evening :—Returning,
to leave Boston every Monday, Wednesday and
by lour in the morning, and arrive at
Portsmouth the fame days by fix in the evening.
In Massachusetts, Connecticut and
New-York
4. From 3ojlon % by Worcejitr, Springjield,Hartford,
Middletown, and New-Haven, to New-York : Kiqm
November fiift to May fir ft, the mail to leave Bol
ton every Monday and Thursday, at one o'clock
iathe afternooa ; and arrive at New-York every
Saturday and Wednesday (the sixth day from its
departure) t>y ten in the forenoon : Returning, to
leave New-York every Monday and Thursday,
at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Bol
ton every Saturday and Wednesday, by ten in the
forenoon : And from May firft to November firft,
the mail to leave Boston every Monday, Wednes
day and Ftiday, by three o'clock in the morning,
and arrive at New-York every Thursday, Satur
day and Tucfday (the fourth day from its de
parture) by eleven in the forenoon : Returning, to
Jeave New-York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, by one o'clock in the afternoon, and ar
rive at Boston every Thursday, Saturday and
Tuesday, by fix in the evening.
In New-York, New-Jersey and Pennsyl
Van 1 A.
5. Between New-fork, (by Newark and Eliza
bethtown) and Philadelphia, every day in the week,
Sunday excepted : The mails to leave New-York
at noon, and Philadelphia at onfc o'clock in the
afternoon; and arrive at Philadelphia and New-
York refpe&ively, the next day after their de
parture, by ten in the forenoon ; excepting the
mails of Saturday, which are to arrive at the fame
Jiour on Monday.
/nPENNSYLVAN J A 01id MjRVIANI,
6. From Philadelphia la Ba'ttmore: The mail to
leave Philadelphia eveiy M nday, Wednefdaj
?ifd J. r 'day, at noon, and arrive at Baltimore e*ai»h
fuccced'og day f.y noon ; Returning, tn leave
Baltimore eveiy Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday,
b.y four o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Phi
ladelphia Ach succeeding day by eleven in the
forenf on.
4}. From Baltimore to Alexandria : The mail to
leave Baltimore every Tueldav, Thursday and Sa.
turday, at one o'clock in the alternoon, and airive
at Alexandria each succeeding day by Jight in the
morning : Returning, to leave Alexandria every
Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday by four o'clock
in the afternoon, and arrive at Baltimore on Tues
day, Thursday and Saturday by ten in the fore
noon.
In VIRGINIA.
8. From Alexandria to Richmond, Suf
folk and Porljmoutk : The mail to leave Alexan
dria eveiy Monday,' Wed'nefday and Friday, at
nine o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Rich,
mond every Tuesday, Thursday and Satuiday,
by-fix in v the evening ;at Ps erlburg, every Wed.
.lefday, Fiidavand Monday at ten m the forenoon;
at Suffolk everv Thursday, Saturday and TueWa;'
by ftx in the afternoon ; and at Poitfmouth tvery
Friday, Monday and Wedncfday", by ten in the
forenoon : Returning, to leave Poitfmouth the
lame Fiiday, Monday and Wedncfday, at one
o'clock m the afternoon, and arrive at Suffolk the
fame days by seven in the evening ; arid at Peteif
burg the next Monday, Weiinefday and Friday by
eleven in the torenoor.; leave Petcrfburg the fame
days at two in the afternoon, and arrivj at Rich
mond the fame days by fix in the evening: leav-
Richmond on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by four in the morning, and arrive at Alcxrndna
the next Wednesday, Fuday and Monday, by three
in the afternoon.
9 From Richmond, by WWiamtburg, York-Tow*
and Hampton, to Aorjolk. The mail to feave Rich
fond "try Monday, Wrdnefday and Friday, bv
tour o'clock in the morning,- and amve at Norfolk
tyieach fuc ceding day, by five in the afternoon ■
Returning, to leave N.rtfolk every Wcdnefday'
Friday and Monday, by fix in the morning, and
arrive at Richmond each succeeding day-by fix in
tne evening. '
An V) rginia and Nostii-Carouna
« ? ' ter(in by fatijax, T„borou^h»nA
Smithfi/li, toFetettaiil/C. The mail 10 leave Petcrf.
burg every Friday, a(one o'clock in the atiernoon
»nd arrive ai Fayetievillc the next Monday, by'
tight in the evening: Returning, to leave Fayeite-
Vllle every Tuesday, by four in the morning and
arrive at Pcterfburg the next Friday, by eleven in
the forenoon.
Carolina
li From Fayetteville, by Cheraw Court-
House, "Camden, Columbia and Cambi idgr, to
Aogulb, The mail to leave Fayetteville every
T#efday, by four in the morning, reach Camden
next day By five in the afternoon, ijnd arrive
«t Augusta the next Saturday by noon : Keiurn-
JJigio ltMtve Augusta every ThuiTday, at five in the
morfcing, arrive «t Camden the next Sunday by
five in the morning, and fit Fayetteville ihe next
\ft>iid«y, by fight in the evening.
12. From Augvfta tc Savannah. The mail to
leave AuguAa every Saturday, at one o'clock in ihe
afternoon, and arrive at Savannah the next Mori
'lay morning by ten : Returning, to leave Savan
nah evtr.y Monday, at two o'clock in t-he iiier
| noo'i:, ac'd arrive at Auguita the next WedntfdTy,
' by five in the afternoon.
I 13 From Carnden lo Statcfburg. The mail to
| leave Camden every Tburlday by tour in the
morning, and arrive at Staufburg by eight : Re
turning. to leave Staufburg eve/y Saiuiday, at iwo
in the afternoon, and arrive at Camden by fix.
In M.uAACHOJErxs, -K»M>:>f.-LsLANO ana Cow
NtCTtCUT
14. From Bojlon to Providence. The mail to
leave Bollon every Monday and 'I hui fday, by fix
in the morning, and arjue the fain* - days at ,Pio
virience f by. tivaiin the n-fternoon : Returning, to
Providence every Wedneiday and Satuida),
by fix in the morning, and ari ivc the lame day-,
at B itl'on, by five in the afternoon.
Peifons offering proposals for this eontra&,
art de fired alft» to (late the terms on win eh they
will carry the mail between Boßon and Piovi
dence, three times a week, and every day in the
week (Sunday excepted ) \ cafe a stage waggon
Ihould run so often between those two places.
15. From Providence, by Norwich, to Hartford.
Th?- rpaij to leave Piovidence every Tuesday and
Friday, by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive
•it Norwich the fame days, and at Hartford on
Wednesday and Satu.rday, by five in the alternodo :
Returning, to leave Hartford every Monday and
Thursday, at ft veil in the morning, arrive at Nor
wich the fame days, and at Providence on Tues
day and Fnday, by five in the afternoon.
er Per Tons otfering proposals for this
are also defircd to state the terms on which they
will carry t.hemail between Ptovifence and Hart
ford three times a week, if a stage waggon should
run To often between those two places.
16. From New-London to Newport, thence by
Brijlol and Warrtn 10 Providence, therice by Green
wich to Newport, and from Newport to New-London.
The mail to leave New-London every Tuelday,
at two in the afternoon, and an we at Newport ti?e
next day by fix in the evening ; leave Newport
every Friday at eight in the morning, and airive
at Providence the fame day by fix in the evening ;
leave Providenceon Saturday at eight in the morn
ing, and passing through Gteenwich, arrive at
Newport the fame day by fix in the evening ; leave
Newport the next Monday at eight in the morn
ing, and arrive at New-London the next day by
en in the forenoon.
17. From New-Haven to New-Londcn : The mail
to leave New-Haven every Monday, at eight in
the morning, and arrive at New-London ever,
Fuefday by ten in the forenoon : — Returning, to
leave every two o'clock
in the afternoon, and arrive at New-Haven every
Wednesday afternoon by fix.
18. From Middletown to New-London. The mail
to leave Middletown, from November firft to May
fi'ft, every Thursday morning, and from May to
November, every Friday morning, by tight
o'clock ; and ariive at New-London by iix in the
evening of the day of its departure : Returning,
to leave New-London each next succeeding day by
eight in the morning, and arrive at Middletown
by fix in the evening.
In New-York.
19. Between the Qty of New-Yak (by Kings
bridge, Po'jghkeepfie, and the city of Hudson) ind
Albany. Ihe carriers, with the mails, 10 leavt
New-York and Albany eve ry Monday and Thorf
dav, by four in the morning, meet, and return t<>
each place on Wedncfday and Saturday, by fix m
the evening.
In Pennsy lvania.
20. From Philadelphia, by Lancajler-, York-torvn,
(ar/j/le, Skippcvjburg, Qhamberfiurg, Bedford and
Greenjburg io Pittjburg. The mail to leave Phila
delphia every S-iturday at noon, and arrive at Pittf
burg the next Friday by noon ; remain there hoi
lels than four, nor more than fix hours, and returi
to Philadelphia the following Friday by noon.
In the State oj Delaware.
21. From Wilmington, by New-Cajtle, Cantwel/'s
Bridge, and Duck Creek, to Dover. The mati to
leave Wilmington e very Monday afternoon, b\
five o'clock (or as so >n as the mail from Philadel
phia is received) and arrive at Dover by five iu ihr
evening of Tuesday : Returning, to leave Dovet
rvcry Wednesday morning by five o'clock, and
arrive at Wilmington by seven in the evening of
the fame day.
Jn DELA wA R E and Mar yl an d #
From Chiiftiana BrMge, by MmdJetown,
Warwick and George-town Cross-Roads, to Che f
ter-iown, and thence to Eafion. The mail to
leave Christiana Bridge every Monday afternoon,
by fix o'clock (or as soon as the mailfrom Phila
delphia is received) and arrive at Eafton by fix in
the evening of 1 uefday : Returning, to leave Eaf
ton every Wednelday morning by five o'clock
and arrive at Christiana B. idge in the evening o"
the fame day, by eight o'clock.
£3 Pcrfons offering proposals for carrying
this mail, are desired to state the terms on whieh
they will,carry it trom May firft to November ft,ft,
by leav ng Philadelphia every Monday at hall part
nine, A. M. and teaching Eafton the next day by
TO J M -— and 'burning, leave Eafton every
YVednefday by four, A. M. and arrive at Philadel
phia i he next day by noon : And perform the
lame tour, during the other half of the year be
tween hall past tune o'clock ol every Monday', and
noon ol the next Saturday. And also their terms
lor carrying an additional mail between Philadel
phia Jnd! Chefteuown, leaving Philadelphia c wn
Wedncfdayano Friday at half pad nine, A M
and returning the fourth day aftei by noon.
23. From Baltimore to Annipdis. The mail t»
leave Baltimore every Monday and Friday, at
eight in the morning, and arrive at Amiapoli* the
■fame day, by , vc in the afternoon : Returning, to
* n K r" S CVCry Tucfda >' and Saturday by
rme A £ and arrive at Baltimore the
fame days by five 111 the alternoon.
h: Vi a ci n i a ar.d Nor th-Ca not i n a
ZflAn/v "Y flynwuih;wa'fh,nr
ton_and Ncuiben, to Wilmington : The mail tol cat.
Suffolk every Wednefdav at four o'clock in the
next Sa-
148
In Nortk-Carou ka
p. 5. From Halifax by Blmntjvi/le, Williimjlown,
and Daileys, to Plymouth, once in two weeks:—The
mail to leave Halifax every other Monday by five
o'clock in the morning, and anive at Plymouth
the next day by fix in the evening : Returning, to
le.ve Plymouth the next Thursday by five in the
morning, and arrive at Halifax on Fiiday by five
in the evening.
26. From Wilmington to Fayettevilh : If.e nr.nl
to leave Wilmington every Sunday, at lour in the
morning, and arrive the next day at Fayetteville
by five in the afternoon : Returning, leave Fay
ettevillc every Tu fday, by four 111 the morning,
and airivc at Wilmington i«ie next day by five in
the afternoon.
In Virginia,
Proposals will be received at the Poll-Office
in Richmond, untiJ the 10 h day of N'ifemher next
inclusively* fop carrying she mail o*'.he United
States from Richmond to Staunton, —from the 15'h
aay of the fame month, until the firft day of June
1 794- rnai 1 to leave Richmond every Mon
day by fix in the morning, and arrive at Staunton
the next Wednesday by fix in the evening : Re
turning, leave Staunton every Thursday at ten in
the forenoon, and arrive at Richmond the next
Saturday by frven in the evening.
(^3 = * The persons offering proposals for carry
ing this mail, are defiled to Hate the on
which they will carry it, and leave Richmond eve
ry Wednefriiy at noon, and arrive at Staunton the
next Saturday by three tn the afternoon : Return- ,
ing, leave Staunton every Monday at seven in the
morning, and arrive at Richmond the ilexi Wed
nesday by ten in the for noon.
Note i. If during the continuance of the con
trails here proposed, any other times of arrival
and departure of the mails should become neref
fary, to preArve a proper connexion with other
'mails, ttie coniradlors are to conform to any ar
rangement which for that purpose (hall be made
by the Poft-Maftcr General, such arrangement not
lefTeniog thp number of hours above allowed for
carrying the mails refpe&ivcly, without their con
cur.
2. A convenient limc not less th<\n ten minutes,
nor excccd:ng half an hour,for opening and cloliug
a mail is to be allowed at each Poll-Office,at which
the time of iu arrival and departure is not herein
fpecified.
3- For every half hour's delay (unavoidable
accidents excepted) in arriving alter the tunes pre
fenbed in any contrail, the comra&or to forfeit
me dollar ; and for the non-pei formance of a trip,
'ouble the sum which the value of one trip lhaU
to the of the whole number ol mps 10
be performrd.
4 The mail may be carried on any of the post
:oads herein deferibed, either in stage waggons oy
on horses : but when the slate of the roads p e
vents travelling in waggons with the neccflary ex
pedition, the mails are to be carried on horses.—•
r.very mail-llage mutt have in it a box in which
ihe mail is invariably to becarried, under lock
and key.
5. News-papers, as well as letters, are to be
sent in the mails; and it any contractor would
vii'h to be authorized to carry news-papers, other
ban those conveyed in the mail (agieeahly to the
22d fcilion of the port-office iaw) he must, in his
>ropofals, state the refpe£live fu:os for which he
will carry the mails with and ivithout\he emolu
ments which may anfe from such fepat die cai riage
of news-papers.
NEW POST ROADS,
In N T £w-Yorr, Massachusetts & Vermont.
An extension b' the Post roads having been de
sired, front thence
to Kan.tndaiqua, in the ttate of New-York ; from
to Bennington, in the ftatesof
feits and Vermont; and from Rutland to H'indJor y
and Rutland to Fairhavcn, in Vermont : Proposals
or carrying mauls, on those routs, (at the expense
of the contractors) will be r ceived at the General
Poft-Office, until the fifteenth day of
n x' iriclufively.— Persons offering such proposals,
mull ft ate the days and hours when they will re
' eive and deliver the mails at each place here
mentioned, and the length of time (whidl) cannot
exceed eight years) for which they will contraCt.
The contractors, refpeCtivcly, will have the ex
lufive privilege of carrying letteis and packets on
these roads, for hire j and be authonzed to re
ceive, to their own ule, all the poilages which ihall
anfe on letters, packets and newfpapcrs by them
aimed, at the rates eilablifhed by law : but must
carry, free of pottage, such letters and packets as
'V taw are, or shall be declared free.
For ever} hout's delay (unavoidable accidents
xcepted) in delivering,.a mail, after the time a.
greed on> the conuattor to forfeit one dollar;
and for the non-performance of a trip, one doilar
" r Cjfeiy ten miles distance, as far as the failure
"Xtends.
The persons whom the contractors (hall defig-1
nate for Poftmaftt rs, on these routes, —previous to
'heir aCtmg as such, mull be approved by the Post-
M after General, ancf take the oaths required by
iaw. They are to agree for their compenfuions
wfth the corv(ra£tors, to whom «lone they are to
account for all the postages they iViall receive.
1 he fame oaths must be taken by the contractors
l, nd their riders who carry the mails.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Post-Master-General
THF Editor of this Gazette tarneflly reqvejis
all those of his Suhfcrikers, -whose accounts are of one.
two or three years flanding, to discharge them as soon
as possible.
Ail perf&ns empowered to colleff monies for thepaper,
to whom payments have been made, would, greatly oblige
nm 6r\ transmitting,the Jams received, and the names of
the fubferibers who have paid.
While every grateful acknowledgment is due to those
«-WiPu*auahty has enabled the Editor thus, far to
continue the publication -he is obliged to obftrve, that
Jo great is the crperiQf attending its profcutien, and so
argt t it amount of arrearages < that un/ess a confideva
6t°f at , ar ? oUT 't n speedily realized, it will be
ofji ile f(,r him \o continue the (gazette with any re
ference to a diflant and extenfve circulation.
September 29, 1792.
WANTED—TO
_ j From the last ot dftober next,
convenient House, in or mar the centre of
he Citv — Enquire of the Editor.
'^ € t NDEX an d Title-Pace jor
Thit d P olume of this Gazettf., arc now ready to be I
delivered to thofc who intend to bind that Volume.
Strayed or Stol. n
pßOM,.,eU,r :nbtri()ntheii '
X instant, Irnm the in, lof urc ■
ol 1 rcnt9n lownfhip, Huoi,rH „ LA,i .
1 Jrrfey, a Ch c f„ut Soirel MAR, *<»-
o'd, fourteen and an h ,lf h£,i
whue f it and eyes, a bunch on he, lVa„d
lide, occahoiied bv a hurl, f nia |] j ni - ■ ?
m«ne, (hortilh tail, Ihod all muid "V- bi "
Will lake up laid Marc, and return Iw , *
John Ciark.ol Tienton, R, c „ . ' icr
Nt-w-Y rk, ortl,efuhi.-r,ber m i' V*'"'
field coumv, Stale ol Cnnmfi air
tlGH T DOLI ARS R; WARTJfI'r '| ,hl ' ,ccnv£
Thief, or FOUR DOLLARS ; ol ltw M '"j""' 4
Vl *n* ftnli
JAMi.S rßOV.'RfttriC!
TVnton..Mf.J.)S D ,. ,H.
N" E W -BIIU M s IC K.
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circtimfkanccs of . er„..»i
who had undertaken 10 ilifpofe of a" Cman
''on of lh u c •« the New-Bl„,,fw,ck c'E
Lottery haMrug, m-.* opinion, render, d „ lncon
vement lor | llm fa nhtr
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundted tick
cl ar L7 tXP ' ft * " lU "" d 'he R,a or "
Church-Ward, n, and V«ft,y.,mn. Thi , , ,or -
Managers under the neollitv ol t„„h f , adjouVnin.
of October next, that they may have „ mv t „ U .J
mtr these t.<*«, to the pans ol the fta.e where ,W
ate applied tor, and receive the returns ,Uil ,re
are but ew ttckets bef.de* , hf fc , fmain „ =
hand, all perrons who „ e disposed p lomn &, h
pious Ob,eft of this Lottery, or ,0 take a than*
for the prizes therein, arc [equefttd to supply ihenu
reives by the full of Oflober; and the gentlemen
appointed to ol them, are deh red ,„ urn
thole to the Managers which tVeii retrial., „r,r„u
to aniwer the aopltcaitons of We gentlemen iii
|ihif neighborhood, who ar; psftpohtti t«, thi, rr
r,a„ce.|o, a r. I# ,ly._Ai.d fiotice i. herehy .i, TO '
tl at the tickets not returned to the M riger, bv
the eighth day ol Oflobcr, will be coiilidrrcd as
at t lie rule of the holders.
B. RontßT Moaris, Esq. of
t 11, is duly cholvrt one ..I the Mahageuof the
3 L 'ery, 3rd has given security and qualified
agreeably to law. . fcpiol)
i oo Dollars Reward.
1 T OS T oil Cambridge Common, MafUhufett!
'I" >8 h uli. a Morocco'
KEF-BOOK, with a ft, t ! clal'p, cnniaimri»
a number of valuable papers, amon ( > whicll wci'
the following Public Stel it I ties, viz.
Malfacliulcus Slate Notes-No. j. 4 , v
December i, 1782, payable to Thomas GnnwoU,
for £.z 3 16/., principal— No. 52.390, dated !<-
liuary 1, 1785, payable ;o Nathaniel Partrii.e, lor
£. IO lOf. principal-No. , dated |'in'..ary
1, 1782, (an army note) payable to Tiitothy Ue».<-
ard, id. piincipal—No.— ,'a Ni •
(the number, da'e, and 10 wlrom payable, net.
known) for £.3 os. 3d. principal. -One Indent
Certificate tor Four Dollars, and a New-Hamr
fhue Certificate lor about £. 12 pavable toJuin
and Daniel also a number of Notes of FUnd,
one of which was for 572 given bv Nathan
Bond to Snnucl W. Pomeroy (by whom it was en
dorsed) dated lit May, 1792, and pavable on tiie
1 ith folio wing; she others were all paya
ble to the Subfcribrr. The Securn.ie?- are checked
(he different offices from whence thev were
ilTucd, and the Notes of Hand by the different
signers, they can thcreiore be of no use to any but
the owner.
j The Subscriber hereby offers a teward of Onk
Hundrid Don ars to any person or persons
I who has found the fame, and will return them 10
him, or fcave them with the Printer hereof, and
no questions will be asked.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Salem, Mdffachufetts, Ausujl 1 ,*i792. (ep'fj
j Stock Brokers Office,
1 No. Great D;ick.-(lreet, New-Yo*k,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely tp the PURCHASE and SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Br S sleave toofrer
his services to his friends and others, in the line
of a Srotk Kroker. Those who may please to fa-
Vor him with their buftnef-j. depend upon
trania&ed with the fidelity and
i fpStc h.
Orders from Phi!ade!phia,3ofton, or ariyrither
part of the United States will be ftri&ly difeud
ed to,
LEONARD BLEHCKFR
Mqv t
Universal Hymn Book.
%
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBf&N, and other
Booksellers in Philadelphia,
AColleftton of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS; ft I eft ed from different
Authors, and publiflied by Older of the Con
vention holding the Dotlrine of the Salvation or
alLMen, met in Philadelphia, Mar 25, , 79 1 *
Price of a Tingle book, bound.3-&hsor a Dollar,
with good allowance to those who take quantities.
August 4. W,
The SUBSCRIBERS to (lie
Universal Tontine
Arc informed, that a gericral meeting is to be he'd
at the-State-Houfe in this city, on Saturday t
day of-Novcnibef next, at o'clock, -• "
agreeably to the sixth article ot their affectation.
By orcfer of the Agents,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec ry.
Philadelphia. Sept. 15, 1792' (tpt"3^
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON & SOUCHONG,
Of the very fiift quality, l i ni P^ ,tat
from Canton, via New-York, by retat ,
No: 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Mr" •
V
A