< 4 iP { % I
A NAriiiX.iL PATEF, POKUSHKP WKI>WIMY a , vc -~ „„
' v ' 1-AY. FN fOHN f F.N SO. No.jm, Nop !H H f rusTR tf.l, PHil./iDELI'JIIA
[No. of Vol. IV.] Saturday, November ij, 1792.
Foreign Affairs.
r A 11 I S, September 17. I
THE combination formed againfl
France, is every day becoming
niore formidable. AH the advices
from Germany, Spain, and .Sardinia,
agree irr the accounts they give of the
expensive preparations which are
carryingon againlt us. The King of
Great-Britain, in his German charac
ter of EJet'tor of Hanover, has not
merely avowed his intentions of ta
king part with the two great Courts,
but has been molt conspicuous and
forward in f"g'lgi"g others to co
aiefce. Mis Hanoverian minister, as
yon will fee officially notified to the
Atfembly, has travelled over Germa
ny, to make converts to the canfe of,
the Princes. The King of Spain hasj
thrown ofF the fiimfj difgoife of neu-i
trality, and afl'uiediy declared iiiin-i
felffor hostilities. Sardinia, at the'
fame tints, has no longer occasion for
jefuiiifin, but threatens determined
war.
We have the omens of new m a fia
cres in Paris. Thehellifh Katftion of
Iloberfpierre, Marar, Chabor, and o
ihers, bave actually been insinuating,
that the prisons are again loaded with
fufpetfted persons. Ihe minister of
jnftice has found, that since the mas
sacre, between four and five hundred
persons have been imprisoned in Pa
ris by the municipality, the feiftions,
and individuals ; lb trie of them npon
crimes alledged, but most of them on
mere undefcibed suspicion. The
Alfembly knowing well that the in
liquations of these ruffians are signals
for execution, have taken ineafures to
save these poor wretches from the fu
ry of the mob.
" Citizens ! be on your guard ;
keep a watchful eye over thel'e trai
tors : let us refrain from every kind
of exctSs ; let ns refpetft persons and
property : let 11s maintain good or
der ; war againtt tyrants, and union
among onrfeives ; let Paris be the
cradle of liberty ; let it also be a fafe
and lure asylum ; (uffer the inha
bitants to remain in it ; f uffer Gran
gers also to vifir it ; the poor will
then be able to live ; commerce will
flourifti ; abundance will return ; and
Paris will become the fir It city in the
world."
September 19.
By letters received Tuesday and
Wednesday lull, we learn, thar du
ring the night of Sunday and Mon
day lall, the mob here broke open
the jewel-office belonging to the
Crown, and Hole out of it all the
jewellery and regnlia.
The treasure depoflred in this
J>lace, csimprjfing diamonds and o
ther precious (tones, the rich pre
sents made by sovereign Princes, See.
was by far more valuable than thai
belonging to any other crowned head
ill Europe. The total value of the
diamonds, pearls, coloured (tones,
and diamond ornaments of the King's
dress alone, is estimated about one
million tterling.
Monf. Merlin, member of rhe com
mittee of refearclies, has given the
following account of the robbery :
At ten at night a patrole of the
feJiion of the Thnilleries perceived
a man who was defcendhig the lamp
pott of the jewellery office. On leiz
i"f, him, iiis pockets were found full
of jewels, diamonds, gold and silver.
Another robber, in attempting to cf
cape by throwing himfelf from the
top of oneuf the pillars, was wound
ed in the head and taken ; he was
covered wiih brilliants, and had a
handkerchief full of gold and silver,
diamonds, (apphires, enterals and to
pazes. lhe National nfiembly has
thij morning named four of its mem
bers to be prcfent at the information
of ihij sfluir, Two cotifiderable dia
nioncis, orie nained the Regent, wpnh
500,0C0i. Itc»ling, and the "wuci, sic
carried ofF, with nil the mott pre
ciolis billibitls. 1 lie value is eiti
mated at several millions flerling.
In confecjuence of this depredation,
an older was iiined mftantly to ihut
the barriers, and I'earch every per
lon who attempted to pal's. At the
(atue time couriers were dispatched
on every road leading fioni the ca
pital, with orders to iiop every car
riage they met.
Decree of the Poiflonniere.
The following will (hew our readers
the respect entertained for the
scriptures by Some of the Parisians.
A letter having been read from the!
reAor of St. Laurent, inviting the
aflembly of that fedion to the
funeral service performed in honor
of our brethren, who f ell on the 10th
of A tig 11 ft last. the aflembly, persuad
ed that it is at length time to speak
the language of reaf'on, decreed the
following answer :
The martyrs of liberty, our brave
brethren, who fell on the ioth of
August, have no need of being excus
ed or recommended toajutt, good,
and merciful God ; the blood which
they have thed for their country ef
faces all their faults, and gives them
aclaim to the beneficence of the Deity.
What ! shall we go and offer our
prayers to the Divinity that he may
not condemn our brethren to the p»-
nifhment of eternal fire ! This would
be offering an insult to him, it would
be telling him that he is the mofl fe
rocious, the molt absurd, and the
most: ridiculous of all beings. God,
Sir, is jufl ; our brethren consequent
ly enjoy a perfect happinels, which
nothing can e'eftroy : bad citizens]
alone can doubt it.
Shew ns upon your altar pieces the
glorious victims of liberty, crowned
with flowers and occupying the place
of Sr. Crispin and Sr. Evinlin.
Substitute songs of liberty for the
abi'urd hymns afciibed to that feroci
ous David ; that crowned monlter ;
that Nero of the Hebrews, whose least
crime was his having aflaiiinated a
huiband, in order that he might sleep
more conveniently with his wife.
We (hall then unite with you in cele
brating together that God who im
printed 011 the heart of man instinct
which excites in hiin the love of li
berty.
(Signed) DEVAUDiCHON,Prefident
Vaguet, Secretary.
The Duke of Brunfwick is ported
with an army of jo,ooo men between
Verdun and Clermont. Fifteen thou
sand Emigrants, with S,ooo other
troops, are behind Longwy.
General Clairfayt, with 30,000 A uf
trians is in the neighboihood of Car
rignam. Tbeie are about 25,000 Auf
trians between Saitelonis ?nd Long
wy which, together with other small
bodies, make in all 132,000 men,
without including the troops of Brif
gaw and Flanders, who are said to a
.niount to 80,000.
Several persons have fallen victims
to their imprudent zeal in digging
up leaden coffins, in order to convert
them into b llers.
M. Burruyer has been sworn into
the office, before National Afiembly,
as Commander of the Camp under
the Walls of Paris.
LONGWY. August 5
Firing at the King of Pruflia,
His Prussian Majef\y pafling by a
village near this place, efcortcd by
feme dragoons, 15ier inhabitants ma
nifelled a g< eat joy on feeing him,
but all on a fuddenthe found of three
or four inufkeis were heard, and his
Ma jelly and his horse both fell, f'is
suite, furious at feeing this treason,
fell on to ni a fiacre the people and
dcflroy their houses ; but tlae Kii g,
193
• overirig his fall, called out to flop
tljeir vengeance, fayi> 1 am nor
wounded, spare the human blood.
However, this accident induced the
king to fend a courier extraordinary
aw;ty immediately, ordering thirty
thoufaiid more of his troopsto march
towards the frontiers of Fiance.
LYONS, September 1 3
In imitation of the example set t>y
the Parisians, the prisons in this city
were forced open, and the pril'oners,
tliotgh defended by the Municipal,
Officers, were all slaughtered indif-1
criminately; nothing could exceed
i he ?ury of the populace, and ihe ef
fetffs it produced are too (hocking to
relate ; several heads were carried
through the ftreers. One of the pii
foners liad escaped from his murder
ers, and came to the Hall of ihe Ma
gistrates to implore protection j but
' veil h'.. Judges couM rot save him
from the monsters vvho were in pur
fiiit of him, and who cut him in pie
ces, with several more unfortunate
citizens and prisoners, in the very
presence of the officers of jultice.
At night the bloody scenes increas
ed—every moment the prisons were
opened — a great number of priests
were murdered—one ef them was
disguised in woman's cloaths : the
llaughter did not cease till the streets
were covered with dead bodies.
An infurreiftiou has also taken
place at St Martin near Lyons; 4'e
ven persons, among whom were four
priests, were saved from being mas
sacred by a party of National Guards.
BRUSSELS, September 22.
After the events of the 14th inft.
the news of which you probably have
lifeard, the armies under the com
mand of the Duke of Brunfwick, hav
ing turned the mountains of Cler
montois, found the armies of Luck
ner, Dumourier, and Kellerman, ve
ry advantageously ported in a chain
of mountains parallel to the river of
Ainfe.
The combined armies offered bat
tle to the French, which they refill
ed. It then became neceflary to turn
a corps of 20,000 men under M. Dn
mourier, who occupied a hcighth
which is considered as a key to ihe
pafles. The intrepidity ofthetroops
conquered all obstacles ; they attack
ed and took a battery of cannon, and
M. Dumourier perceiving they ftiould
turn his flank took flight. The two
other Generals followed his example,
and the French army palled the Ain
fe in the greatest diforder,'and. fled
towards Chalons, where it is thought
they did not flap
In this retreat, from four to five
lundred prifoneis have been made,
md they loft a great number of peo
)le, four pieces of cannon, sixty wag
jons, and an infiniteqtiantity of bag-
? a S e -
JVI. de Sombrneil, aid de camp of
the Prince of Nallau, has gained great
credit in this acftion by his valour and
intelligence. It is umlerftood, that
the king of Prussia decorated hiin
vvith the military orders 011 the field
of battle.
All the difficult paff'ages are now
forced, and the combined armies have
the key to Paris, except the battle
which t he patriots at e to in the
plains of Champagne, behind Cha
lons; but it is feared their courage
will not await the Auftrians and
PrnlTians
The coin billed armies bewail Pt ince
Chaiies de Ligne, whole courage was
the cause of his deal h.
LONDON, September 21
Extratl cf a letter frcm D:t!!iu, Sept.ll.
" It is said that in the course of
last Week a fublci iption,. asncnntin«
ta tlnee millions fteiling, «as com
pkted amoirg the Roman Catholic
[Whole No.
gentlemen nnd merchants of Ireland,
ior the pu' pose of lajids
in North America.
" The object of thjs pnrchafe is
Paid to be two-fold ; firft, Th::r th«fe
lands may f«rve as an afylnm to w Im li
those people may retire, should they
fail in obtaining w bat they now seem
t<j consider as eliential to "lie being
of Freemen—the elective franchife.
'] lie second objeift is, Thar they
may be a fonrce of profit, lliould their
situation in their native country be
made such us to induce tliem to re-
main in it
" This measure of the Catholics,
fhonld it be carried into execution,
miifl; \ery deeply intereit the nation
al welfare. — Nothing has occulted
in Iriflj poliiirs, within the prefefic
century, more worthy the attention
of the politician and the ftaiefman."
The firtmy, which was in the Pa
lis paper of Monday i «■ ported to have
been gained by M. Dumourier's nr
my, has since been declared an ig
nominious flight, as we can (tale
from M. Dumouriers own authority,
in a letter to Marshal Luckner.
M. le Murcchal,
" My troops have been infeil#d
with a panic ; the infantry ran, Icav
ing behind them font- field pieces to
gether with a great quantity of fniall
arms. The cavalry, the dragoons,
and the light horse foliowed. A great
part of our equipage has been loft,
and the army is how full of fliftme,
on its march, in three columns, to
take poll in the c?mp of Dammartin,
before St. Menehould. I shall fe;id
you my returns to-night ; in the mean
time do not be uneasy. I have point
ed out to Bournonvilie the route to
join me, I think that I can Hill answer
for the army, and consequently for
the fafety of France, fifteen hun
dred Pruflians were the cause of all
this mifchief. Above all, be careful
to supply me with amunition.
(Signed) Dumourier
(Copied from the original)
Luckner, Generaliflimo.
Another letter from Chalons, da
ted Monday, gives a dismal account
of the ltste of that city, and the dis
order and terror that prevail in ir.
Official letteison the retreatof the
French army to the camp of Daili-
martin
" In our retreat to the camp of
Dammarrin, two leagues from St.
Meneliould, the rear-guard of onr
army was vigorously charged ; but
the body of our army had got to the
camp in the bed order, and was. even
already encamped ; on a sudden,
some ill-intentioned persons spread
the alarm, by announcing that the
rear-guard liad been cur to pieces,
and enemies were falling in great
force on the main body of the army.
The waggon drivers increased the
terror by being firft to take the alarm.
The confufion wasfuch, that jco men
might easily have routed the hnlf of
the army.— !n the mean while the
General beinginformed of this event,
went out to meet the army. He found
the cavalry in the best order at his
voice the run aways rallied^'the bag
gage Itopt, and the confufion subsi
ded. The fuldiers were ashamed of
their niiftake, and if at that moment
they could have been led to the ene
my, it would have been leading ihein
to vitftory."
The eaaernefs of tlte people to en
-1 ifl for military feivice increases.—
But are fli 11 much wanted lor
the volunteers. The Dep-irtmeru of
la Maine, which fitpplies iS,OOOtnen,
has bun 6,0c0 mufquets for them.
The young Prince de Lij»n', who
wis lately killed in an niSion with
the French, is the officer whose gal
lantry was so much the fubjeft ofdi(-
course at the fiorming of .Ifmael, in
the late campaign against the'l'uiJcj.
d 7 1 • JPhiladelphia, Nov. 1 7.
A correspondent observes, that there must be
some mistake in the paragraph which the
carting vote of the Vice-President on the Rcprc
femation Bill, as the cause of the oppofitioo in the
state of Virginia, to the re-cleft ion of that gentle
man. It is well known that the Vice-Prefiiicm is
in favor of a large and equal reprefeutation—his
vote against the r-uio of 30,000, was therefore pro
bably on the idea that luch a ratio would encreafc
the inequality resulting from the operation of an
unequal principle in the bi)l--but it would be
highly derogatory to the honor of any flaie in the
Union, 10 thro Wan odium on a member of a le
gislative body, for exercifniq the fiift principle o!
repubhcanifm in a free independent vote—there
fore the above insinuation against rhe truly repub
lican state of Virginia, cannot be founded in fa£t.
By a document presented to the House of Re
presentatives on Monday I ait from the Treasury
Department, it appears, that the total amount ol
public expenditures from the full eftabl)ftiment of
ihat depaitment to the end of the year 1791.
amoiints to 3,797,436 dollars 78 cents. The to
tal amount of money received during the fame pe
riod, 4,771,342 dollars 43 cents, leaving a balance
° T dollars 65 cents in the treasury at the
expiration of the year 1791.
Accounts from Liibon, which appear to be weli
authenticated, fay that there will be a great de
mand for grain in that quarter.
The general aflembly ofDelaware have ap
pointed Gunning Bedford, James Sykes, and
William Hill Wells, electors, to elefl the Presi
dent and Vice-Prefiden,t of the United States.
The Hon. William Br ad jo id, Esq. is cho
sen by the State of Rhode-lfland a Senator of the
United S:ates, in the place of the Hon. Joseph
Stanton, whose time expires in March next.
Hinry Sherborne, Efq; is chosen Treasurer
General of the above State, tn.the room of Joseph
Clarke, Esq. dcceafcd.
The following gentlemen came pa.Tengers in
the ship Delaware, arrived here on Monday
laftDr. Turner, MeflVs. Barnwell, .Huger
Carroll, Grand, Reefe, Witherfpoon, Harden'
Guy, Dvight;—and ten steerage palTengers.
The following gentlemen are chosen eleflrors
of President and Vice-President of the United
States, by the State of Rhode-Island, viz.
His Excellency Ar th u r Fen nek,
Hi* Honor Lieut. Gov. Potter,
Hon. William Greene, and
Gxorce Champlin, Esq.
The article in our last, referring to the Con
vention of Soutn-Carolina in 1788, mentions a
letter from the Governor of Virginia, " pro
posing a kind of league against the new Govern
ment." In explanation of the article, we are
authorized to fay, that the letter alluded to,
was not a private, but an official communica
tion.
On Friday the 2d inft. was executed in Hillf
borough, Orange county, North-Carolina, Sa
muel Fuller, of Granville county, for thehor.
rid murder of his own son.
Extraß tf a litter from a gentleman in New-York to
hu friend in Haiti more, dated Nov. 5 .
"A ve ; fel is arrived here this day, in thirty
days from Cadiz, and brings advices of the King
of Spain's having declared War against France
and marched a great army to join tile confede
rated powers."
Ixtratl oj a lain from a gentleman in Londonderry
-* " y ' " ' o •— -
dated September 4.
" The Jacobins, or Republicans of France
haying overturned the former order of things'
a bloody canteft is begun, in which it is hard at
this distance to fay which is right. It is cer
tain the friends of liberty have had many oh
ftacles to encounter; among theirgreateft and
most dangerous enemies are the' priests, but
they are now to be all sent to South-America
to till the earth. Fayette has fled from France
and it is said is going to America. At home'
Paine has fairly overcome Pitt and his col
leagues: in Ireland, Napper Tandy has con
que red the whole force of government."
From the New-York Gazette, November 14.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
about twelve o'clock, the deputies
appointed in the leyeral counties throughout
this State, to folicitlegiflative remedy for the
late outrage, Hud t° have been committed on
t e right, of lutfrage, by a majority.of the late
canvaifing committee, assembled at the city ta
vern, and from thence formed a procelfion of
ber Var At °l e 'f ' V ? e I r °r ti,e afi " erablv cham -
Mr R V ,£ hou '* were met by
• a member from the citv and
eoiinty of New-York, who received from the
diaumanoj each deputation their refpeftive
Mmorak, beginning wrh the county of O t .
1 id 0 ' c /' H "; i:nan ' af ' tßl " a fton aid" pathetic
f<! fa'.table to the solemnity of the occa
',, n ', pr f- , l ' ,e petition to the Speaker
Vv e cannot b„ut ohfervc, the
T£™ceof a n„nib,r of our fellow citilenT
from various parts of the State. TheTS'
matter of the petition,, aod tbf
communication.
T4ie writer, tbe !neaf of n
a-n. file U lae p#rtjr fo;Ill . nt oppdfltu)n
to the excise, and in the new/papers they do not
folulh to juftify the audacious conduct of th«
coiifpirators against the law. Mark th< incoi>
lifter.ty of theie miiohtef-makers. They spare
no pains to hinder the col ettion of the excise.
v/hat must be done when that fnnd fails ? T&
find out another, the la id must fufply whar
he failure of the excrfe will oblige Congtefs to
call for—md is this the way to favor the ni
rereit of the farmers? Would they dare to lity
chat dry taxej will advance the landed interest ?
These men axe not deceivers, t.'io' they have
rid and run over the whole country to deceive.
They are opposed to every form of taxing tha:
shall touch them, and to any government that
fhatl require it. Tins, however, is neither the
desire nor the interest of the fenitble yeomanry
of America. The bawlers of liberty and no cx
cife, ought to add, land-tax forever.
" Lu ciws," Jrom ike American Daisy
Advertiser, [hall appear in our next.
The piece Jig ned •' O Gasar—M. Phtreius,,"
being perjona I, Jkmild have been accoinpan>ed with u
dijdojure of the author's name.. This, with the Com
municavon dated St. Mary'i," relate to a fubjefi
which is perhaps Jufficievtly exhaufied
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Maria, Parfotis, Boston
Jason, Lilli bridge, returned in distress
Brtfy, Padcn, Cape-Francois
Mary, Kennedy, H^mbfeig
Schooner (.opd Intent, Schary, Portau Princt
Delaware, Davij, St. Luitatia
Hawk, Dunn, Charlefloni
Es S lt '> . Jones, do.
Swallow, Odlin, returned indithefs
•Sloop Sally, Ingraharo, St. Kitts
PRICE OF STOCKS,
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
.Full (hares Bulk U. S. 45
| Iharts, S7
Unfunded debt of the U.S. 21/6 on the principal
And on the Intereftup to lft Jan. »yBB, 13J.
PARIS, September 12.
THE number of men that marched from Pa-:
ris to reinforce the army from the 3d to'
the 9th instant, according to the account kept
by the Commandant General of the National
Guard, is 9,897. To theft are to be added
2,2"'0 that marched on the loth, and 5000 who
have gone from the neighbouring diftrifts,mak
ing in all about 17,000 able-bodied men, weli
equipped. The Commiifioners to
the diftridt of Soillons, &c. write that they lhall
fend 10,000 men to Chalons, well armed and
equipped, and 58 pieces of cannon of the arft
nal of la Fere.
The Commiifioners sent to Rochefart -write
that they have sent 37 waggon loads of ammu
nition by land, and that several veflels with
cannon are already failed for Rouen.
National Guards and Gendarmeries at
Chalons pvopofed vili Ling the prifpjis and exe
cuting summary juflice on the prisoners ; in o
ther words, imitating the murders at Paris.
™ t ' m detestable purpose they were diffuad
ed by the Commiifioners of the National Altera
bly there. '
The Commifuoners to the department of tlic
■oath write, that the mod perfect tranquility
eigns at Avignon, the garrison of which con
ifh of 4300 men well armed, difeiplined, and
■bedident. Two battalions of the departmenr
lf Drome, confiding of 800 men each, dcfir#
obe employed, and the Commi/fioners recom
nenri them as fit for immediate fcrvice.
The Administrators of the department of the
-owe,; Seme write, that having before Tent one
lattalion to the colonies, they have now lent
wo to the frontiers, and twelve pieces of can.
.011 for the defence of p aris ; that eight com-
, 3 "T bb e are read y t0 march to Meaux on
lhorteft and that the number of fai
ors at their difpol'al amounts to 15 000.
Commiilioners sent to Chalons by the Com
.onsofParn, state a number of volunteer,
art of the garrilon of Verdun, with a detach
[lent 01 tne regiment, formerly Walrti's, march
ng armed towards Meaux, had been flapped a,
™ M '' by Gendarmerie, and conduce
?,rr" a Tv , 1 hcfe men °» their march gavt
f k j wa! § lven "P by the Admini
.rative bodies and the inhabitants, who obli"
I J 3l / tc> surrend er; that they hac
ieen loaded wit.i favors by the King of Prulßa
"d t«e Dakeofßrunf W ick, who said to thero
nd to the people, « You have ODtM tQ
om our armies ; we come not to mak- wji
ipon you, but merely to re-establish Louis XVI
•n the throne. Far, therefo e, from
mr efforts, it is your interest to follow on
landard, or at lead to remain quiet ,rd
rn.cn the more as you are every wl,e4 betray
d, and your defeat certain." Tire Commi/n
7r:,t Eras
.a rne I,tn in ft. confirm this account T'»,
m u P nd a er te a nts nSiSbegUn ' '" d tW °
The Minister at War has announced the r?•<
<W d be
retiring
t evddp.ayed thegreaterffirr
orn in three C es '' " r "» v -' er
c£Zl£:tz;r''- o * rr ': ve in -
coura:
194
MHjaT *me f ' eraed 10
Oluded to, H P»me» cenwwwa *motEriitaieitr.
- to c»nfider them mcrHya» wiaiWFci
' spa M: thought that was do other war n |
I th » adopts one «T?
Jier.ofth.fe'afaniaiw,, either to^f I"
■q»n nd Jifat, i„„ „ ■
<&tesas£&rs*
sbvious, without crimitatiftir an. I,
.dvertcd to thefexarfSj I°^' " C
rfthe troop,, andthefeftertorit, ohtS' r *
on mr. Dayton's motion, viz. I*what informa?'' poin **" he c<m ' d "«*
rhat tie Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary I SeCfttajy of TreaiiM^ 0 'j®'"" sl ' from the
of War, be notified, that on fVedntfday ntxt tljis I legifiaturc had poiic too farW "!!?" '''i'
House intend to take into conftderatiori, the Report I no fatisfaflion Wnutd result f'' f' *u
of the committee relative to tie causes of thefailure I ceedings, but that the bufi*ief "u *
of the late expedition, under the command of Gen. I more and more involved '' W - a ppe«t
St. Clair, to the end that they may attend the house I Mr. Boudinot. after (latino- f,„j . ,
to give fucb information as to theJlate offails, as I relative to the state of the Duhli T' *"
may be in their po-wer. time of the report-adverted to '
MR- WILLIAMSON moved to ftrifce out fume of wC '° Particular p, rl - Q
the laoterpartof the relolution,'which ?£"" «<** <* «*
'efpetSled the attendance of the secretaries on the He therefore „ r „^ K ,L TC, £ rt 18 fo ™<kd.-r
louse thiftttotion, if carried, leaves the refo- I from the heads on-h f necessity of receiving
ution a simple proposition to inform those offi- Nation which i,, r „ de .£ lrtment »> that infor
.ers, that (Jm house were, on Wednesday, to take Slpm
:he report On the failure of Gen .St. Clair's ex- t o be done Drevio,, ~7* tW °»gkt
pedition, into confederation- I cnn fi,i. raM t0 tat " n C "port lot®
Mr. Vienable objected generally to the refo- I Mr Fitzfimon. r A u n. ~
ution, a» inconsistent with tlie dignity of the I the resolution iL j'-j' **"6 again*
louse. He doubted the propriety of the meat SSrfotf
ure altogether. The gentlemen are not im- I «or the m®de * ormatron Eluded to ;
cached, and therefore the house has no right mark» toSKSi''T' S °" K rV
\o cite them to make their appearance : and I k„r .u v on the raport tho" it i a
with refpe<st to information, the houfecan com- I particulariv reolvV !'° u^/ 16 fllould
nand such from the heads of departments as nr n erfin LH l A WC l Ul l 0n y
hey may fee proper to require. He was at a Tnv fnl? PP so ps
oft m attempting to investigate the obj iSt of J has been faJE r ' cclvc<l °?•«'» "port It
he refoltition. He could fee no purpose {hat it been a militarv K
vould answer, which could not as well be ob- that ft wT,^fe •n" Wcl) know °
ained without it. f h " " 7"' in ?P° L mble to such an enquiry
Mr. White offered fevcral objection, to the L?h ofthe T* Hethe " g™ i
efolution, ofa similar import with the above. committel ,rr!/cr rOCtC , d:nSad °P teclb 7 th«
Mr. Dayton supported the motion by a few ZXv h the enqu.ry, to (hew
■emarks ftatmg the importance of that informa- If nftLt iorwl hln tr "° f
i°n which those gentlemen alone could g,v e _ Mr WillZ J. -ft
3e adverted to the report of the committee, out the lattL oart '.A* 1 movc < 110
which he oMerved had exculpated the command- ecually onnlfed to th b « hewa.
general on that expedition, whereas he wSs ,t , andfince
jf opinion, that the failure was owing to the lon both r,J f 8 Ttral ?««kraen,
nifcondudl of that gentleman. * L he rt house ' he w " <* o-
Mr. Tucker objected to the refol„tion_he nd'to V° ° f ital "
preferred the mode of requiring that informa- I thfcourfe whlh ° t I bsfinefs proceed id
set *•" m ° k -«'•»
:he praiflice of the house. He had not, he said on wM J r ;« ,<>rt ' the TOU^er S
thoroughly revolved the business in his own' I the house "a^o^"' 0 " fu , Ul,ded ! ara brfor e
tn.nd, and therefore was not prepared to state I Jlrt V 'bc 'Beompleatnefi of the re-
Full) the effeAs which would reful? from the" f. 0 "* "* S an ,mma 7»' the few bWks
doptionof the resolution ; but he would hazard I to * CC , a the W3nt "f time
thus mpch that it would form an innovation in Ihe m ! De e volum,nou ' papers rteceflkry m
tke mode of conduding the this r,% 7'a ' order to of tS#
house, and intr.dt.ee a precedentwWd, would 1,4 ""Ir" themfe!^s of W '
lead to perplexing and embarrafiine confequen I M V 4 °Werved, that he had not the fimld
.es; as it involved a conck.fionfnrrfSto T to investigation ofrtf
the principles of the government, which at an Ifh . J, wa ® fevor of all '"forihitfei.'
earlier day, would have been revolted from He I onkr Z ,h obtlUned ' he objeA^not?"
was decidedly in favour of written informa I 14, . mod( ; now contended for, whiA"
tion. written lniorma he: thought not only liable to all the,objedinw
Mr Clark was opposed to the refolntion-as m 'it many whih;
a member of the committee who made the r? r>
port, he had no apprehension ; with refped to ? ayton obfervel . that he was one of
information, the report and the vßuchers are be- he <£d*nnt "T ? d W ' th tht re P ort '
fore the houft; and such further enq.iirv mav tbe "nclufion which exctri- '
be made of the proper officers as the house mav J K u' comrnin . din £ officer, could be fupport
:hink necefTary house nay ed by the report itfelf. He adverted to &
Mr.Ames supported the resolution He L lt > that the com
ced the impressions which the failure of the late T !" U ? ha ' e be en highly he iiv
expedition had made on the public mind Cha fntT'f llo "' ne f\ of h ' s movem,TU % dila- :
rafters had fuffcred in the general estimation— I s JV" C i°' l lg ' and h -
it was of the utmost importance that a thomno-l, I P . b y the enemy. He thought that the re
inveftigation should take place that if the f'l I mar ' cs w^ fallen from gentlemen on
of the expedition w« a me« S T what had were illiberal, as they had'-
fortune of war, it mi<»ht be made to im.™ ? I virtua "y impeached his candor, when he wm.
br if it was owing to mifcondud, the blame wa's h° US ° f deV ' ati "f from its [t
might fall on the proper fubjeits. The vsra '. not h " lnt8ntlo » to hav< touched on the -
suggested to obtain information anneired tn I the report, but had been impelled to
him the best that could be the most m r, m theturn the dL ' l,£tc taken.
adequate to the object it was due L ;,,d' „ ; G " ry was ln lavor of the refojutiftn.
to truth, and to the national honor to take'ef- ft' cd on tbe magnitude of the objeS of
fedlual measures to investigate the hnln f inv est»S RtJon » and mfiftcd that it wa» the indif-- 1 '
roughly. This enquiry fppears to be the bT "f 7 ° f the h ° ufL '' to probe
ginning of an arrangement preparatory to an b 'ui the bo " om ' that ,f an X P erfo " , •
impeachment; on whom this will fall lj should , r 1" th 7 mar fuff;r - or thf
not presume to fay ; but still it places the bufi- I i "il" ?S- by whlch the na '
riefs in an important point of view in -! n, tional charadcr has fuffered, and so severe »nct
in the strongest manner the neceflitv nf - rl° *' u "P rol | u <sl've an expence has been inco!T«d,'a
ing the belt poiiible mode of afcertaininc/X," " 10m,t,n S probably to one million dollar* hat.
real state of fads. This he concc'v d !i . OWIn S to circumrtantes which could not b«
rot be dore so effeAually'as bv the ' C ° U avol< 3ed or controulsd, the puhlic may receive
fed in the resolution. 5 * pr ° p °- f«irfaaion as to the whole bufipefs.
Mr. Gilespbjecied to the resolution He ore 1 Ir " P ;'R' e ob j e c ted t0 tha resolution, particii
ferred a thorough discussion oftkf r. n „ . • u t0 precedent it would eltablifll; but at
firft place ; and a comparison of T ' "'i' C ' le ' ame time he was in favor of thi foiled •«-
with the report : and if, in the issue Jt'lhmU q . Ulry the bufi,ltfs w *« fucceptible of. He fail; '
appear neceffkry to call for r tlie mode prupofed would operate to clog the '
these officer,, it conld thenbe d"S™ b?" T freed ° m ° f and the fr « dam
present state of the buiineli, to a,.'oo7the rl-'r,,!,, 2 Mf ' A " les ' adv = rtl ng to the spirit of the re
tioti. would Jace the committee in a " P nrt > P olnt ed out the peculiar Ctuation of the
greeable Ct.uation. yaua- two (ecretarics, and that they did not Hand on
Mr. I,awranc« observed tint thr the fame ground with other person.i who sre
m their report, fay that for want of f- 'i"' not ""'mately implicated in the business He
had not been abfcco com,^"tTTit is a "" d VV° t,IC VarioUl which had heeß
parent, from the report itfclf ' t'nr ■ C *' rom precedent, from the fulJnefs of the
ture. He stated several pirticuiirs in"/)!"" 1 "" which the fuhjetf had undergone '
port which were inconDle-e «'i f i 1 * re " ln ,nr ''ands of the committee, and from the re
inierred, that there was material '-"' "' n, i . lenLo mark by Mr. J.ivermore, that fufficicnt had al
be received previous to !v... I( r\, rna " nn t(> re.iay been done. To this last ol'jeiflioii he
competent judgment on ihe b„Wf, ° h™/ r plied, by faying that the public
lerved, that a,"the information nv'l Lh- °|T W!U .' te ' i f " r ' h '' r f'tisfadlion, and that the house
law no neccfiitv of «,>,<) oo.iin r t ul . I c:,ci<l !,ot jidlrty thoafcivei to their conSitueoti
those olTi -ers in firO in a 've ? ltri " C0 ' \ n 'i'houi: a ftrirter and fuller tliat
Mr. Madison, in rolv - Q vi r ' a ' i t' l " of the faits might Ik hid before thcni.
that the bed pniFible m-id- o-j-»(VrT ' j Mr. Mauilou fiid, the mode now propofot
observed, that there fcunvvi't,? L ' ! invt,!wd a d * rt:li &ion of the only priuflicabie
el.un.ato oet.mewiitid.-a j mode of trinciting public bufincfi! and .ht
4 CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Brief Sketch Debate,
2 1/3
i2jr
\3j3
per cent, prem
k!«however imperJWl'Viat moic might be, still he
Delievid, that it v.as the only one that had re
ceived the fsiivftion of experience and utility.
He tlf efure hoped, that the resolution would
be refuted, and Che mode already adopted per-
Itverol in, and the ncceOary information called
for in writing, from every perlbn any ways in
terelltd or competent to give it.
Mr. W. Smith lupported the relolridon. He
Ihewed by the report iti'elf, and from the rea
lor.iiig uled by geutlemtn in opposition to the
resolution, tnat the two secretaries were impli
cated ill the caul'es of the failure of the expediti
ng { ro in hence he inferred the julbice and pro
priety ot giving them an opportunity of excul
pating theitilelycß.
Mr- Gerry exprefled surprize at the apprehen
sion which lonic gentlemen appear to entertain
of the :n; alt. If ox introducing the heads of de
partment into the nouie; for his part he had
■ho such appreheufious. The secretary will at
tend at the orders of the house, luureiy to give
Inch information as may be retired, and not as
members or miiiiflers, to influence and govern
■the determinations ot the house.
Mr. Venable objected further to -he resoluti
on he urged the impropriety of any of the
heads of departments coming forward, ar.d at
tempting 111 any way to influence the delibera
tions ot the legislature.
Mr. lanvrance replit d to Mr. Venabie ; he
abferved that the gentleman appeared to mil
take the object of tnc resolution, it was not con
fempUted that Either of the iecretaries should
appear on the floor of the house, to influence,
lu any degree, its deciliuiMi; they are to be cal
led on merely lor information.
Mr. Murray objedted to the resolution. The
report, he observed, is made to the house—is in
the course of its difcuilion any futther light or
information ihould be deemed neceifary, it may
then be cailedfor, and in that mode which lhall
appear moil eligible—at prcfent the question ap
pears to be premature. Mr. Murray added
leveral or her remarks, and then the que (lion
being put, Mr. Wiliiamfon's rnotiou for ilriking
out was carried.
IVednefday, November 14.
Sketch of the Debate on the metion for recommitting
the Report.
Mr. Madison fuggeited that the most simple,
apd confident plan would be,
;o recommit the report of the Sele& Commit
tec, and refer the preleat application;>* to the
Committee, to whom the report&all be re-com
mitted —He therefore moved that the Commit
tee of the whole ihould he dtfeharged from con
sidering the report on the eaules of the failure
of the late expedition.—Mr. Smith (S. C.) ob
served that fevera! ohje&ions {truck him in op
pofttioa tp this motion. The House must at
some period laid he, meet this buiinefs ; if it is
recommitted, here will be an impropriety in re
ferring it to the fain Committee, if a new Com
mittee is appointed they mull begin the whole
bu/inefs de novo; and if their in veil i gat ion
should take, up such a length time as that of
the lormer committee the i'elfion will be expen
ded; and at the close of it, the business will recur
on the house, and tfie fame difcufiVon will be to
be had, that is now proposed—He hoped the
house would therefore proceed in the considera
tion of the report, aflign two or three days in
the week for the purpofc, and continue the in
vestigation till the whole is finifhed.
Mr. Giles replied, that he had no doubt that
the vouchers on which the committee had foun
ded the report would appear fuffi«ient to juftify
the decifioxis that they had made. He laid, that
he did not fuppole that the applicants would ad
duce any new information—one of them had
been called on, he attended the committee, and
he supposed that he had furniftied all the infor
mation he was in possession of. He obje&ed to a
re-commitment, as one of the committee he was
perfectly iatisfted with the report; nor did he
conceive there was any additional evidence to be
produced, except it was of a recent date.
Mr. Ames said, he perceived such a difineb-na
tion to go into the business as indicated a pro
per temper oi mind in relation to the perions
fuppoled to be any ways interefleri in the ulti
mate decilicn of the lioufc He was opposed to
* recommitment; as it would procrastinate, in
Itead ot expediting the enquiry. He adverted
to the report.—Fa els are ftatcd, the public have
been left to draw the inferences, tlie committee
have not explicitly criminated any body; but
ttiey have determined, in feverai instances, who
Moot to blame. What is the fiiuation of those
who are implicated in the cause? of the failure?
Every citizen knows, that in consequence of the
Ofue ol the expedition, clamours the
War department, inrcfpectto Indian ait'airs, have
rung through the continent, should public offi
cers, who have been placed in iituariona of such
importance be silent, andfubniit calmly to such
imputations, they would be un Worthy of puh
- I .c CUj if'dence— unworthy to breathe the vital
* Ir Ihey now apply for an opportunity to be
heard.in their own vindication. Shall they be
ent to a committee-room, and make their de
ence against the allegations b: ought forward to
t eir difad vantage, which have been published
to the world, in the hearing of perhaps ten or a
v ozen perfon.s only ?He hoped not —-he thought
jtuuee to them, and to the public required, t.iat
fjiey should b to make their dVfefire in
j-ie face of the, world. Will not precluding them
. "* lc a to smother ali further enquiry
into the bufinelb? 1 '
Mr. Bmdwm was in favour of recommitting,
e aid it was thu mofh eligible mode, and was
coni. nant to rhe pradtice of the houfl*.
Mr. Madilbn remarked that it had been said,
I portion wis di/"covered to smother the en-
Uir ' ' ll r --piy he observed, that if be wilhed to
prevent a thorough inve(ligation, helhouldbe in
avour of the who;,: bulinefs being undertaken
byjxc houle, becanie, he < blerv ed, that if a ie-
Letters of the fecrerary of war anduuarter-
;!:tTr t "° f * foWmembers seven
weeks t form income
! e o ,n ' thM
.l" : 1 ;" g'ct tl',rough the bufiuefs. He fur
~r„ T Ur l eU 'r thc ,JUIC rj * lo a lifted for
r ' _ rn '* r -fiJueof tlir evidence to a feJed
as induced the mcifure in the firil
commit:
inflance
| Mr. Frrfirn'msfaid h, was at firft in favour
jot a recommitment; but on further confilera
tmn he was convinced the houle would be able
to get through the bufincftin a (horter time tl.au
a ieleJt committee. He added several other rea
sons which induced him to be in favour of the
houie proceeding with the report.
Mr. Gerry said it appeared to him that the
only qneftion leemed to be, whether the houfc
or thfleled committee lhall efUblift the fails?
these lafis arL established by the committee
T"u n 1 5*, ve c l ual as if they were
eftaWilhed by the house? He < onceived it would
not; but should the result be acormftmn on the
part of the house, that some of the officers arc
culpable, will the house reft an impeachment on
the report of the committee ? He conceived the
house ought to found their decisions on fads as
certained by themselves. It has been laid there
is no diiference between the house and the com
mittee : If this is the cafe, does it not imply a
cerafurc by the house on certain fhara&ers? He
thought it did. It therefore becomes the house
to difcufc the report that it may be determined
on what footing it Hands. If, in the cafe of a con
tested ele<sUon the house revolted from the idea
of Submitting their judgment to fa&s fubflanti
ated by a committee, the cafe before us is of
unlpeakably greater magnitude, for thel'e and se
veral other reasons he hoped the report would
not be recommitted,
Mr. Williamfon was in favour of the motion
for recommitting ; he supported his opinion by
the uniform pra&ice of the houfc, which in eve
ry cafe where new evidence was adduced, always
provided that the new evidence should be exa
mined by the fame committee, who had original
ly brought in the report. He said if this mode
was departed from, we should find no commit
tee would bring forward a state of fa&s in fu- j
He thought it was not treating the com
mittee with proper candor to decide on their re
port in its present situation.
ture.
Mr. Sylvester observed, that the resolution
of the house at the close of the last session, that
they would take up the business early in the pre
fcut session, precluded a recommitment—he was
therefore oppoled to the motion.
Mr. Boudinot w?.s in favour of a recommit
ment, he said, if there is new evidence to be
brought forward, the house ought to wait fill
that is received and reported at the Clerk's ta
ble ; ami this he conceived ought to be done in
the usual way, by a feletSfc committee; till the
whole testimony i? completed it appeared to him
the house was not prepared to take one step in
the business.
Mr. Madison replied to Mr. Gerry's allusion
to the cafe of the contested ele&ion. He enqui
red of him whether the house itfelf went into
an investigation of fa&s in the firft inftamx ?
believed he would not fay thst tliey did.
With refpedt to the memorials, he enquired,
whether, if they had been presented at the time
of the investigation of the fubje& by ths felecft
committee, they would not have been referred
to rhe committee; if they would then have been
thus referred, the fame reason exists for referring
them to a fele& committee at theprefent time.
Mr. liawrance was of opinion, that a re-com
mitment wouM tend to a saving of time; the
committee will not he obliged to go over the
fame ground agjiin that has already been explo
red—all they wiil be obliged to do is, to invef
tigatc the new testimony which will be adduced.
He hoped therefore, that the motion would pre
vail.
Mr. Giles said, that the proceedings of the
committee were public, and that the secretaries
could have attended all the time, had they fecn
proper—They attended but once, and then ap
peared extremely anxious to get away, to attend
to their offices. The committee would have been
extremely glad to have had thofc gentlemen pre
sent oftener, and to receive all the information
they could give—and supposed they had done it.
Mr. Gerry replied to Mr. Madison; he said,
if gentlemen would recur to the proceedings of
the house on the contested ele&ion, they will
find, that the house expressly reserved to itfelf
the rights of fubilanriating the fa£s, which
should appear from an examination of the de
positions, taken in conformity t* the resolutions
of the house; and here he adverted to the mode
pointed out by the house in taking thole depo
lition.n. The adverse party was to be summoned
to attend to the taking them ; but in this re
port it appears, that exparte evidence has been
admitted as the foundation on which some of
the decifjons have been made.
Mr. Murray lupported the motioij for a re
commitment. Heobferved, that the business in
its present (late was so incomplete, that he
could not fee how the house could proceed upon
it. One part of the evidence only is finifhed,
Mid the report is made on that evidence. Now,
we are told, new testimony is offered; let the
whole be brought into view at once, and then
the house will be in a situation to judge.
Mr. Page was in favor of a further comriiit
mentor the buiinefs; but whether to the com
mittee who made the rej o t, or to a new com
mittee, he lhould not take upon him to fay.
With refpedt to the admiflion of any head of a
department to the bar of this houi'e, except in
caie of an impearhment, he would never confe'.it
to it It would be a precedent of a most dan
gerous nature, tending to a deftrudHon of all
freedom of (inquiry by committees.
Mr. Findley observed, that the committee
wiflied tbi>t Mr. Hodgdon fhouldhave been pre-,
lent, but he did not make his appearance; the
committee therefore proceeded on the testimony
they had, and as there is now new evidence
brought forward, he thought it was proper that
the report ftould be recommitted. An one of the
195
ait rin M aVC no to faeh
•nil n " 4 "; ight a PP" r F ro P cr or. further
and,nwre con,pleat invefligatfon of the business.
, Mr, steeie called,for the reading of a clause
j* the memorial of the Secretary of War, wh.eh
rates that the committee had drawn conclufiom
Iron, expirte evidence. This being read, Mr.
Steele remarked on the want of candor towards
,the committee, which had been (hewn by some
ot the members in thecourfe of their observati
ons. He then advei ted to the above claufere
pcx-nig ex parte evidence,and observed that with
itlpcft to the Secretary of War, it was not true
t nat the committee had proceeded on exparte
e\i vticc; tnat officer said he, was notified of
the meetings of the committee, he attended those
ijKep.ngs, he furnifhed the committee with pa
pers and documents, &c. ani further he was re
queued to detainofficers in town whose teftimo
»y \\ as necessary in the that he com
p ained oi lome of those officers being detained
by the delays of the committee from the recruit
ing icrvice. With refpeft to M. Hodgdon, the
ame cannot be said, as he was not then in the
country.
Mr. Steele then concluded by some addition
rerr*arks on the indelicacy manifefted by some
gentlemen in their treatment of the committee,
and obierved that he did not apply it ro himfelf
peiionally, but as it refpedted the Committee at
large he thought proper to express the contempt
whiclt he conceived it merited.
Mr. Dayton replied to Mr. Steele, he repeat
ed the ftibftance of his original remarks on the
report, and added that in the courfc of the dif
cufljon he should attempt to shew that the de
duitions madein several parts of the report were
falfe.
Mj. D 1 yton added, that whatever ;he gentle
man fall speaking might fay—as one cf the qom
iii'irre who signed the report, he was certainly
irT'plicwcd in whatever censure it merited.
1 he queflion for a recommitment was acrecd
to, 30 to iz.
Wednesday, November 14,
Mr. Grove, from North-Carolina, took
his feat tbia day.
Mr. White moved that a committee be
appointed to prepare and report a bill to
regulate trade and intereourfe with the
Indian Tribes.—Agreed to, and meflrs.
White, Glark and Williamfon, were ap
pointed.
Mr. Orr presented the petition of
praying compensation for public fer
rices : read and laid on the table.
Mr. Muhlenberg presented the petition
of Griffin Jones, praying compensation
for a quantity ofleather supplied the pub
lic: referred to the Secretary of the Trea
sury.
Mr. Dayton presented the joint petiti
on of a number of Canadian refugees : re
ferred to nielf. Dayton, Bourne, (R. I.)
and Murray.
Mr. Goodhue reported a bill providing
for the regiltering and recording of (hips
and vclFela.
j The petition ofjames Dunbar was read,
on motion, referred to meff./iTucker,
lAfhe and White.
; Mr. Fitzfimons was added to the com-
Imittee on the petition of James Warring.
<ton.
' A communication was read from the
secretary of the treasury dating an esti
mate of the appropriations requilite for
the support of government for the year
'*793-
Mr. Murray's motion for the appoint
ment of a committee to take intoconfide
ration that part of the Prelident's speech
vvhich relates to the transmission of newf
papeis, and whether any, and what alter
ations may be necefTary in the law for re
gulating the Polt-Office—was referred to
mefTrs. Murray, Baldwin, Gilman, Ames,
and Barnwell.
Mr. Lee presented the petition of Pa
trick Dougherty and Bowles, pray
ing compensation for damage fultained in
their property during the late war : read
and laid on the table.
Mr. Gerry prtfented the petition of
Mrs. Bond, widow of the Colonel Bond,
who died while in the service of the Uni
ted States during the late war : laid on
the table.
The following letter from the Secreta
ry of War, was pre fen ted arid read :
IVar Department, Nov. i." t , 1792.
SIR,
After the close of die lafl femon of
Coagrefs, I saw with much concern the
: r¥poAof the cominittee appoiuted to en
quire 'into the causes of the failur'e of the
expedition under-Major Get). St. Clair, of
tfec Bth of May, 1792, which having been
prefeiited to the house in thelaft moments
of the session, was ordered »o be printed
and has since circulated in the public
newspapers throughout the United States,
containing fuggeitions molt of them foun
ded upon ex parte invelliVation, which
have been underltood in a icufe very iuju
rions to my reputation-.
Learning that the prefentday was ap
pointed for taking into corifideration the
above-mentioned report—l luvr waited
with anxious expectation for fouie act oi
the houte enabling me to attend the piu
grcio of the examination upon which iney
are about to enter, for the purpose of fur
nithing such information and explanation*
as might conduce to a right underlUud
ing ot lacls, in which I am to materially
implicated—The failure of a pvopoGtioi
which I am informed was nude to i,io
house with that view, has auded to my li>
licitnde and regret.
I'll us lituated, I feel njyfelf called uj
on to alk of the justice of the houle that
some mode may be deviled, by whicn ii.
will be put into my power to be pttient
during the course of the intended liiquny,
as well to hear the evidence oil which the
several allegations contained in the report
are founded, as to offer the information
and explanations to which I have alluded.
1 o this (tep I am impelled by a per
fualion that an accurate and iatisiatiory
ihveftigation cannot otherwise be had
with equal advantage—if at all. And
my entire reliance upon the equity and
impartiality of the house will not permit
a doubt to exilt on my pait, that iuch an
invefligation will be exciuliveiy the object
of their desire and pursuit.
I have the honour to be, Sir,
With the highelt refpedt,
Your mod obedient humble servant,
(Signed) H. KNOX.
1 he Speaker of the honorable the
Houte of Repreleutativesof the
United States.
A letter to the fame purport from Ma
jor Hodgdou, quarter-maltei -general of
the late ariny, was presented.
i hefe being read, a motion was made
to refer them to the committee of the
whole house.
I his motion was fuperceded by a moi
tion made by Mr. Madifott, to ditcharge
the committee of the whole from the cou
lideration of the report of the lcleCt com
mittee, and that the fame, with the docu
ments relative thereto, including the me
morials of the Secretary of War and Mr.
Samuel Hodgdon, be iccommittedxo the
fame committee.
Tin's motion after a long debate wai
cartied in the affirmative.
A motion for an addition to the com
mittee was put and negatived.
THURSDAY, November 15.
Mr. Sedgwick took his feat this day.
The bill reported yesterday, providing for thi
registering and recording of fcips or veflels, wa
read the.firft and second time, and referred tos
committee of the whole, and made the order ol
the day for Monday next.
A letter was read from the Secretary of War,
conveying information refpefting Indian aii'airs
in the southern quarter, communicated pursu
ant to orders from the President of the United
States. This information was communicated
in a letter from James Seagrove, agent for the
United States to the Creek nation. The read
letter, which enclosed one from Mr.
M Gillivray, was begun, but, without being fi
nittied, was laid on the table. .
Mr. Lee moved that the petition of Henry
Bowes lhonld be referred to tiie Secretqry of
the Treasury. This petition was for compen
iation for lofles sustained during the late war.
The motion was objected to;—this occasioned
Clie calling for the reading of tiie proceedings of
Congress relative to applications of this nature;
and the report of the Secretary of the Treasury
at the last feifion, on petitions of a similar de
ftripuon with tnat now under confideratiou.
Tneie being read,
The .notion for referring the petition to the
Secretary, after l'orae converlation, was ueza,
tived. - "
Mr. Lee then moved that the documents ac
companying the petition Ihould be read : They
were read accordingly. A motion was then
made tor referring the petition to a select com
inittee—which was negatived^
On motion of Mr. Orr, the petition of Richard
Clunworth was referred to a (cleft committee,
conlilhng of Mess Hartley, Greenup 1- Gordon.
1 he petition ot Giitord Dally, door-keeper to
the house, praying compenlatsc i for extra ier
vices, was re.:d and laid 011 the table.
J he reading of the confidential papers being
re fumed, the galleries were ihut.
FRIDAY, Nov. 16.
After reading the journal of yeftcrday's pro
ceedings, a minion being made to rcfuine the
reading o* the private papers, the galleries were
doled, it wa» fuppoled the reading would be
finilhed this day.
To the Public.
THE fubfcrihc*"h£gs leave to acquaint (hp puh-
Jic in general, ar»d his cuftotners in particu*
Jar, rh«jt he has entered into partncifhip witn
|Mr. HENRY KAMMERER, and thai the Prinu
juig bufiwfs in the ICrjt> 11(h and German
is now carnrd on under the firm o\ STEINER
and KAMMhRER, No. 85, in Race-street, bt*
twrcn Second and Thii d-(lioe v .s.
, The Ge»nun Newfp-iper will be published by*
them, .is uludl, on TueMsys, and all kind of Prjn; ;
irtg work, done wiih care an'i expedition.
MELCHJOR STEINSR*
A'<2:v£, : 792.
Adjourned.PHILADELPHIA, November 17.
ANSWER
To the Charge of the Chief Justice,
delivered to the Grand Jury of the City
and County oj Philadelphia on Tucfday
la ft wi-ek.
r rHE Gtaiul Jury of the city and
A county of Philadelphia, beg
leave to return their thanks to the
honorable Chief J ufl ice,for the charge
delivered 10 i lieui at Lhe opening of
thepre'ent Icliions of Oyer and I er
jiiiner and general jail delivery ; and
do iiiicerely participate in the pain
exprellctl by your honor on account
of t he late illegal combination among
some of our western brethren, to op
pose the law of the United States fur
railing a revenue 011 diltilled spirits.
It is matter of great concern to us,
that an event l'o prejudicial to the
public happiness, and so inconfillent
with an enlightened attachment to
liberty and law, (hould haveoccnrred
in a Rate of which we are citizens,
and which is so deeply intereded by
its internal and local circumstances
steadily to maintain public order.—
Antid(bth«f« painful sensations, how
ever, we beg leave to aflure the ho
norable couit, that we have not failed
to exercise our vigilance and zeal in
making diligent enquiry of all Inch
offences as may have been committed
within our jurifdidiion ; and are hap
py to affiire you that we have fofind
none of the nature referred to in the
proclamation of the President of the
United' States ; whose upright and
mild, but efficient adminilhation of
conltitution and laws,
we vßll ever strenuously support, both
in our public and private capacities.
We beg leave to request a copy of
that part of your charge which re
lates to the President's proclamation
for publication, being fully imprefl'ed
that the fentinients contained in ir,
will meet the entire approbation of
every good citizen.
In behalf of the Grand Jury
unanivioufiy,
(Signed) JOHN BARRY, Foreman.
Hon. Thos. M'Kean, Esq. Chief
Justice of the State ps Pennsylvania,
The proceedings of the National
Aflembly and the Community of Pa
ris, at the fame time that they dilplay
great enthufiafin, exhibit such strong
fyinptoms of apprehension as mult
create dismay and alarm in the other
parts of France, and increase the
confidence of the enemy. Their de
crees bear the molt evident marks of
precipitancy and want of system, and
seem to arise on the fpurof the occa
sion, without previous arrangement
or forefight. To oppose, with effect,
so powerful a confederacy, as that
which now invades France, theie
fliould be a well organized system of
defence,an energetic executive power,
and a numerous and well disciplined
army, acting under one head, and
well (applied with arms,ammunition,
clothing, forage, tents and other mi
litary apparatus. Patrioiifm is a good
thing, but it cannot prevail without
ihefe cflerniaU. Mail.
According lo a Ihic w ,itfT, the f..]]nwin» hif
tomal _fcr.jp camjim an account of the ougiu of
J heatr ir.nl t xjnhit ; °
"At drot.u us, I ivy's Have,was a native of Crteir,
? V 1 SS n,tl ■ Jtai ning nol only procured hi id
His I'-hcny, and made him Tutor to his matte's
!'' s '' '• ' Si'U iif'crwarris to l>e ihe fu
rente pi lite -Roman j>*o|,le ; Jot fa de'< > h;eci weu
they with l»,s . jtformancc on tl, • ft . -, , IK j
V T f ; H > rT!n h" c. mppli ion,
' V , , " tur " fun-, war made
all'."n'd u» '• ' ' V ' r■' C | ° ' S l ' 1'" t!,r y
the Avtlt ,-c hill, therein-
T '" ' • hi' r.i.ola.s'aml ad,nit, , s m ,. ht
ttccjtaiues in honor o! the Poet. Y.-i his - err,
must cither have I, ft,, ponderous Jtmpie ■or hi
iriuft.havc £~umtd rainy efferent iharaitcn i„
horrv.u.:; u,y, hin , rclt vvss („ rfomc|UTK
the sole .'do:, Must.-d only ( y tl„- m, ScM a fly lc
1 hep,this extreme ftmp>icity to the
1 , p 7 n ' *" c,e " i i!: <* <nfdt:n thca-
Ire, dcforV.es our attvn inp,
" l:,c koKtt,.M h,t ~g got their si.st taftc of |h
ftjge. gitwlii lon.j of Andronicuj and ol n!
that pe,f co:,ri w..h pe,,.--ua. -er Z'.
rrr ?%<■!
ocrfortT'.edth' pi.'(•<■ vr '■.1 ■ /"•)"/
1 .niruic fpint, and repre
— iv , rf w. ,b„,
From Woodfall's London Diary.
Refutation of M. de Septeuil of a para
graph to the following rjfeß, ftstlijbcd in
French in the Monlteur the jirjl of this
Month, and afterwards translated into
Englijh, and irtferted in ftveral newspa
pers of the 6th.
" M. Agent tv the committee of
ffc'y, ordered to arrejl M. de Septeuil, jirjl
Valet de Cliamlre of Lewis the XVlth,
has at length discovered, after very Jlrili
search, the rcgijlers and port folios of the ci
vil hjl, tn the latter whereof were found re
ceipts for conftderalle sums, fevt to M. /)'-
Artois, Motjieur La Fayette el Bouille.
The recipts of the tajl, amount, it is said,
to Jive millions."
John Bapli/l Tourteau de Septeuil, jirjl
Valet de Chambre of his mejl christian ma
jejly, and frenfurer general nf hit civil lift,
usually rejtding at Parts and tiolv in this ci
ty of Lmdon, where he arrived the 2 6th
of the month of Augujl last, maleth oath
and faith, that be never had it in charge
from his said majejly to pay or fend, and
that he never did pay or fend any Jum to thi
two Princes the King's Btothers, nor to
Mrjfrs. de Botiillc and La Fayette, and
therefore if any one pretends to have found
amtng the Deponents papers any receipts in
his name, either of the two Princes, or of
the said Mejfrs. La Fayette and de Btmlle,
such receipts ought only to be regarded as for
ged and calumnious.
J- B. Tourteau de Septeuil.
Sworn at the Manjion House,
L.ondon, the yth Sept. 1792.
The building for the academy at
Canonfburgh is now finifhed, and the
institution under good regulations.
The grammar school is taught by Mr.
Johnson, and the English, Euclid's
elements of Geometry, Trigonome
try, Plane and Spherical, with the
latter's application ro astronomy,
navigation, surveying, mensuration,
guaging, dialing, comic fetfiions, al
gebra and book-keeping, by Mr. Mil
ler, both well known for their atten*
tion and abilities. Boarding in the
neighbourhood to be $ad, at good
houses, at the low priceof ten pounds
payable principally in producc. The
situation is healthy, near the centre
of Washington county; the fund
raised by the Presbytery, and to be
applied for the support of a certain
number of scholars annually, is di
rected *y the Synod of the diftrkl
to be appropriated to ihis academy.
It is hoped the public will regard
with a favorable eye this inilitution,
and give it all the encouragement'
that it may delerve. >
Nov. 2, 1792.
The Printers in the different dates
will please insert the above in their
iiewfpapers.
At a General Meeting of the Subscribers to the
UNIVERSAL TON I INE, held by adjourn*
mem at the Siatt-iioufe, in the Cay of Phila
delphia, ori Monday, November 12. 1792.
The ConiiD-.iitee appointed at the hit Meeting,
Reported,
rH AT , in their opinion, it will be for the in.
icrcfl of the concerned, to change the Uni-
V rfal Tontine into a general hfuiance Company —
and submitted a plan lor ihwt puipofe to the con
federation ol the meeting. The plan having been
tead, it was
Rejok'ed That the Univetfal Tontine
Allocidiion te, and it is hereby changed fiom „»
iginal objetts, and converted into a Society to be
called The Inference Company oj North- America.
Rejotvtd ur.animovjly, That the Secretary of the
late Utnverfal Toi.unc AlTncianon procure one
hiindred copies ol ihe sforefaid plan, tp be primed
for the nfe ol the Subfcribeis, and that the said
plan be further confideicd at the next meeting.
Rejnlved 1 |, at if any of the original
Subkr.berjto the Luive-rfal Tontine Allocation.
Ins, he,, or their afflgme or assignees, (hall not, on
or befotc the twelfth day of December next, be
come Subfcnbcvj to ihe hfurance Company oj North-
America, such SabTcriber, or his, her, or U.ctr as
bpiee or assignees, (hall,cceivc I,om the Agents
ol the Umvcrf.il 1 online Affociaiion, the depofn
non.es paid to, bis, her, or the;. ihares leipeU.vc
y, ii.gcinri «,ih .lie jm,,of ii.iei -.;t, „
10,1: iI any, see; ud on the capital, dctluttine
e.e.iom their pi, , rt.oi. nl the cxpcuccs in-
' ' s T t- "• J a-'.;j vu
cu» re <•'
Aopurncd, to nicet at the State. House in the
Liivol Philadelphia, or. Monday the iqih i, it
at 10 o'clock, A. y
City of
So:<I by tie Hockseiiers,
- <■' i: lA7 -
Tranflatedfrom the French.
Signed,
Before me,
J. Hopkins, Mayor.
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 3 .
Lxtraft from the Minutes
I'BhM.ZEK HAZARD, Scc'y
PLAN S
OF TH E
Walhington,
196
ADVERTISEMENT.
(£ST 7his Gazette is pubiijhed rn North Fifth-Street
No. o4> between High and Mulberry Streets—where
the tditoi new ye/ides.
A LARGE CFLLAR TO I.F.T,
Svjficienti) capacious to pore Jeveral hundred barrels.
F.i) qui re as above.
Grand Family Bit^le.
PROPOSALS
FOR PR 1 N rl 1 t; BY SUBSCRIPTION,
An ELEG ANT EDI I lON oj the
SACRED SCRIPTURES
Of the OLD and NEW TESTAMENTS,-with ih
APOC R Y PH A,
£'/• a hry aid beat ~/ niw 77 ", faff/m
THE great importance oi the Holy Scriptures,
I intercf; ?ng to every individual ; :he divine exce!-
I Icnre of its doctrines and precepts, and the beauty
and (üblimiry of its pafLges, have so long made it
i capital o&je£t of attention, as to prccludc occa
sion or opportunity for eulogium.
The piety or enterori/e of individuals has pre
sented t his invaluable book to ihc public in a va
j nety of forms ; in fotne editions it has been highly
embellished with superb engravings, which have
greatly enhanced its price; in others it has been
accompanied with voluminous commentaries
wh>ch necelTarily encreafed the size; while a va
riety of plain cheap copies have generally difTufed
the knowledge of the Scripture, and made the
purchase easy to every elafs.
Without wishing in ihe (mailed degree to lessen
the merits of the various editions, whether plain
or ornamented, which the public are already in
pofTeflion of, !t is pertinent to remark, that very
many readers-os tafie and judgment have exprefTed
a wish for a Family Bible unencumbered with ad
ditions. There 'ftiH appeats room for another
edition on a beautiful new type, superior in
and elegance to any bible that has yet been printed
.» the Engl,lb language, and which, Jetfving the
adventitious cirriimftances (if ornament or com
■mcnt, m»y exhibit the Oracles of God in their na
n c iimpiicity.
SPECIMEN OF THE TYPE.
I d 5 IT And God raid,
d Let there be light: and
there was light.
With refpeftful fubmi/Tion to the judgment and
-and in of the public, the following proposals are
ottered :
I. she work (hall be printed with the gtca'efi
fidelity and attention to correftnefs both in the
text and marginal references, on a fupcrfine Paper
made on purpose, with an elegant new Type cafl
for the work of the size of the above Specimen.
11. The work will be fcomprifed in twenty
number:, making two elegant volumes in Folio
o he furnifhed to fuhfciibers at one dollar each
number. A> prevent any complaints of want of
punctuality, no part of the work wll be delivered
ttnlei> p«iid for.
111. The firft number, cmnaini : ng f:xfy folio
elegantly printed, will be luinilbed on the
iaturoay of July next, when fubfrribers are
to pay the price of the flirt and lecond numbers
and the prirc of one number to be always in ad
vance till the work is completed. The fu'bfequei*
numbers to be publilhcd regularly on the firtt Sa
turday of each succeeding month, till the whole
; is finifhed.
8 Subscript ions will be received in Philadel
phia bylhePu hi,(hers, Thomas DoSson, No. 4,
??" ! ! C " nd " ftrect ' and J OHN Pa kkeh, No.Wq
North Sccond,.flrect ; and by all the Rookfellers :
m Charlcrton.by William P. Young; Richmond,
•>y A.chtbald Curne; Baltimore, bv James Rice •
Wilmington, by Peter Brynberg ; New.York.bv
'nomas Allen; New-Haven, by If;i*c Beers'-
Providence, (R. I.) by William Wilkinfon; Sal
J T hnmi,s Cufhing ; Boston, by David
Veil, Benjamin Guild, and Thomas & Andrews.
GEOGRAPHY.
Ma thew Carey
Rcfpe&fuliy fuhmi's to tho Citizens of the United
States, the foil owin'j"
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION
An AMERICAN EDITION of '
Guthrie's Geography
improve D. 1
0[ which these are the terms :
1. TT [ball be publilhcd in 48 weekly numbers,
X each containing thtce Iheets, or twenty-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine pape».
11. In the course of the work will bed-livered
about thirty lafge m,J, s , of the fame fiz.e as those
in the European editions, viz. rood ol them (beet
maps on pv>ft paper.
pT Beftdes the mips in the Briti/k editions this
work zoiU.contain mips of a<mtmy o/'the Unit d States
as can be readily procured, executed f>y the betl crrtrrje
ers in the United States.
111. 1 he prise of each number will be a auar
:er dollar, lo be paid on delivery. jfcj- Kit ad
'ance required.
IV. The work will be put to press as loon as
'CO copies are fuhlenbed lor.
V. Siibirnbe, s whodifappr ,vc „) thework, on
he puSli canon oUh« three firft niiir.bcis, .ret,,
oe at liberty to return them, and fliall have their
monrv r ''p'-!id.
VI. I he fubftr bets' names (hall be prefixed as
patrons o 4 ihe undertaking.
l'< i haps there is r.o Icier,cc mo're entertaining
and uleful than geoguphy It reveal.-, the dif.o
vcr;es 1 travellers the remj, kablr cur,oft:,es ol
countries, in nature and art—the fmia-mn ol
proviric. r. chics, towns, villages, rivers, & motni.
tam,-',; line, the hirtprv, i .aniie, ",c„ft<vj>t
•:' rfc *' rcV£,nu ". and government of differ-.,t
(HMtS,
, Jt "Mtivition. tint <■ there ,s not a
lon jpr daughter of Adam, but has some content
: >:>v . ' f « ■
vi' . < is indrfpcnfd J . wards t-h
«oVy v ifh ;, ••• ar.tage or \ is (io ). Ird<
man mi acquainted with if, cannot rii( o,m fe onthe
■■
Defraying his i - • per.
So .Tinch tor gcogi ; phy gimfal!v. With re
!>fa to the prefen't plan, let it TuHi'ce to
hat Guthrie 's has brrn !;>n? a-know'
| edged to be <hc I-fit m the Knrlifh hi vurf-
I owever, the account of America in it ha r r .
1 ovious rcaioris, been very crfini' oos ird rl
: 's'h Th v l r or r? l^; n "," ii '- *<">'-
'.6lvd,an<! (lie lUfcfls fupphed, I ; ... Ucnu.of
j 'niiitus, who | ( .vc to *
! !,,r T al - 00 niJt c bc W r °curcd, tri render it i\ c
molt complete ec;i.ion extant
I'lic I'rinicr cjinrllly folic.:s ihr< fnppiort nf ],«■
: •ellowlfili/.us throughout the ll» ; ":,'v ~.. . " j
as no depufit i» teqiiii, d. and every ''itMcMbi r „i|f
he no''l l7f' 0 """ d, ? W
ne mould ana op rove of the work ht hoi'
Iriemts ..I fee,',.«. and of'Ameuran „, s InVn?
nufattures, will i hcrrfnllv mri /. .-i,.
' <-c.ruJi \ and earlv patron:/•• ih i
ulcfnl work, the greatell and moll expcfive. ~,0-liably,
liably, ever yet ..tiompted in America, in the u po
graphical ! nf, the Encyclopedia cxccpied.
P/tit add phi a, Nov. 2, 1702. ( ■ vvtf)
B O O K s,
I 1." INTED AKD S O v L O(Y
M A T H E w CAREY
JVd.llß, Marht-Street, Phiiaielthia ■
A MERICANMUSEU.VI,f,onwr,c„ l r, mr nrr.
X X ment 111 Janu.ry 1787, to June .70, jrf
-eleven vols Pr.ce, neatly bound ,nd lettered,
feventecr. dollars aodthret fifths.
This work, which is now conduftea on an tm
proved plan, containing the best pieces published
for and against the proceedings of.gov,qn.e Nt
will be found to rm.uin at Icalt « a
otpoliucSl,agricultural, and mifccilaorous c (T avs
as any fver published in America. PerKpsir
one work are so many valuable docum r, fnrfl
ing [Tie hifloiy ol this country,colfccftd together
his Excellency the Preftdem ol the Unit, d Su-es'
has declared of it, that " a more ufelul literary'
plan has never been undertaken in Ame-iea nor
one more deserving of public encouragement »
J he fitbfcription is two dollars and a half per
ann Gentlemen in the country who w,(h
'"polled with this work, are renueftrd 10 uive
comm-.flion to friends in the city to fubfrri', r '(pr
and receive it- Any ol ,h- hack numbers
ma y had in order to complete sets.
£. Smith's Letters to Married Women,on Nurf
;iict and the management ol Child ren.
_" We recommend theft leitersto the per,if,l „f
thole to whom they are particulariyaddiefTeri
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101—Price, bound,
02 ccms. '
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic— 75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding— cents.
5. Beauties of cents.
b. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mjf,
More'sEffays, Gregory's Legacv, Lady Penning
ton s Advice,Marchionefs ol Lambert's Advice
Swilt's Letter to a newly married Ladv.Mrs Clia
pone on command of Temper, More's Fablej for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Pnceadol.
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Mora! Science, hy fames Bear,
tie, l. L. D. profrlW of moral phil'.lophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen — Price
three-fourth# of a dollar. Ol this hook the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fa) : "We
have seen nothing on these fubjefis more plain,
more perlpicuous, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univerfuyir Phi
ladelphia.
9- Beauties of Poetry. Pricc four-filths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
11. ckei 's 1 rcai ife on the 1 mporianceof Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on vcrr
fine paper, 81 hs of a dollar.
13. The Coniti tut ions of the several United States,
with the Federal Constitution, Sec. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M' Fin gal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jell Book. Price three-fifths of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 Ihe Dovvay Translation of the Vulgare Bi
ble, in quarto—- Price, elegamiy bound and letfei
cd, 50/2—plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecum—Price a
quarter dollar.
19. Think well oii'i. Price a quarter dollar.
20. C hriftiart Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. Hi Aory of Charles Grandifon, abridged—
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphieys—Price a third
a dollar.
23. S leel Poems, chiefly American-—Price a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carry hasforfale, a large afloi tment of
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the most reasonable
erms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
-•ommands, may depend upon being fuppljed >■'
hr moll fatisfactorv manner. A liberal allowance
.0 such as purchdfv.' quantities for public libraries
>r 10 fell
Stock Brokers Office,
No.45, Great Dock-street, New-Your,
rHE Subscriber intending to confine himfclf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALt of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begste**erooffer
his let vices to hi,friends andotheis.in the line
of a Stock Brok cr. Those who may please tola*
vor him with their bu'fincfs, may depend upci
hiving it tranfaded with the utmost fidelity and
difpatrh
Orders from Philadelphia,Bofl on. or any other
part of the United States w ill be ftri&ly attend
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKER
/t.f.)
o
TO HE, SOLD BY Tlit EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving ar.d paying Gold
graduate d accord!ng to L^w—Blank M jr»ifeirs
And Blanks tor various P wers o k Attorney
11 ceflfary in tranfd&ing Buiin f> ;it :be Trcalury or
at the Bank of ihc United Slates.
•«
HM
'V