A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN Ff.NNO, No. 69, HIGH-SI REE P, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 55, of Vol. IV.] Saturday, September 22, 1792.
General Poll-Office.
Philadelphia, Sept. 10,1792.
PROPOSALS 'Will be received at this Office
until the fifteenth day of November next, in
clusively, tor carrying the Mails of the United
States on the following Post Roads, from the fir ft
day of January next, until the firll day of June,
1 794*
In Massachusetts and New-Hampshire
1. From WiJ'caJJct to Portland in the diftri£tof
Main: : The mail to leave Wi leaflet t very Tuesday
by fix o'clock in the morning, aud arrive at Port
land the next day by one in the afternoon :—He
turning, to leave Portland every Thuffday by fix
in the morning, aud arrive at WifcalTct the next
day by one in the afternoon.
2. Fiom Portland to» Portsmouth : The mail to
lea? 1 Poitland every Monday and Thuifdav by
fix o'clock, in the morning, and arrive at Ports
mouth every Tuesday and Fridav by ten in the
forenoon:—Returning, to leave Poitfmouth eve
ry Tuesday and Friday at one in the afternoon,
and arrive at Portland 011 Wednesday and Satur
day bv fix in the evening.
3. From Fortfmouth to Bojlon : From November
fir it to May firft, the mail to lea\e Portsmouth
every Tuesday and Friday, at two o'clock in the
a ,11 nr.oon. ar-d arrive ilol "> «>n W.idiitiday
and Saturday by fix 141 the evening : — Returning,
to leave Boston every Monday and Thursday, by
fix in the morning, and arrive at Portsmouth on
Tuesday and Friday by ten in the forenoon : — And
from May firft to November fir ft,'he mail to leave
Poitfmouth Tuesday, Thursday and Satur
day, by four in the morning, and arrive at Boilon
the fame days by fix in the evening : — Returning,
to leave Boston every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, by four in the morning, and air.vr at
Portsmouth the fame days by fix in the evening.
In Massachusetts, Connecticut and
N f w-Yor k
4. From Bcjlon,bv Worcejler, Springfcld^Hartford,
Middletown, and New-Havev y to New-York : From
November fiift 10 May firft, the mail to leave Bos
ton every Monday and Thursday, at one o'clock
in the afternoon ; and arrive at New-York every
Saturday and Wednesday (the fixrh day from its
departure) bv ten in the forenoon : Returning, to
leave New-York every Monday and Thursday,
at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive ar Bol
ton every Saturday and Wednesday, by ten in the
forenoon : And from May firft to November firft,
the mail to leave Boston every Monday, Wednes
day and Fiiday, by three o'clock in the morning,
and arrive at New.York Sar^r
day and Tuesday (the fourth day from its de
parture) by eleven in the forenoon : Returning, to
leave New-York everv Monday. Wedtiefday a/>d
Friday, by one o'clock in the afternoon, and ar
rive at Boston every Thursday, Sa-urday and
Tuesday, by fix in the evening.
In New-York, New-Jersey and Pennsyl-
V A N I A.
5. Between New-York, (by Newark and Eliza
bethrown) and Philadelphia, every day in the week,
Sunday excepted :,The mails to leave New-York
at noon, and Philadelphia ar one o'clock in the
afternoon; and arrive at Philadelphia and New-
York refpe&ively, the next day afier their de
parture, by ten in the forenoon ; excepting the
mails of Saturday, which are to arrive at the fame
bour on Monday.
In Pennsylvania and Maryland,
C. From Philadelphia to Baltimore: The mail to i
leave Philadelphia every Monday, Wednefdav j
and Friday, at noon, and arrive at Baltimore each
succeeding day by noon : Returning, to leave
Baltimore every Monday, Wednesday and Friday,
by four o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Phi
ladelphia each succeeding day by eleven in the
torenoon.
7. From Baltimore to Alexandria: The mail to
leave Baltimore everv Tuesday, Thi rfday and Sa
turday, at one o'clock in the afternoon, and airive
at Alexandria each succeeding day by eight in the
morning: Returning, to le-we Alexandria every
Monday, Wednesday and Frjvfay by four o'clock
in the afternoorv rnd arrive at Baltimore on Tuef
diy, Thuilday .ad Saturday by ten in the fore
noon.
In Virginia.
8. From Alexandria to Richmond, Peter/burg, Suf
folk and Portsmouth : The mail to leave A'exan
dria every Monday, Wednesday and Fridav, at
nine o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Rich-
mond every Tuesday,■ ThuHday and Saturday,
by fix in the evening ; at Peteifburg, every Wed
nefdav, Friday and Monday at ten in the forenoon ;
at Suffolk everv Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday
I>> fix in the afternoon ; and at Portsmouth every
Friday, Monday and Wednesday. by ten in the
forenoon : Returning, to leave Portsmouth the
lame Fiiday, Monday and Wednesday, at one
o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Suffolk the
fame days by seven in the evening ; and at Peters-
rargthe next Monday, Wednesday and Friday by
eleven in the forenoon; leave Peteifburg the Tame
eiays at two in tiie afternoon, and arrive at Rich
mond the fame days by fix in the evening : leave
Richmond on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,
by four in the morning, and arrive at Alcxrndria
the next Wednesday, Ft iday and Monday, by three
in she afternoon.
9. From Richmond, by William (burg, York-Town
and Hampton, to Norjolk. Ttie mail lo leave Rich
mond every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, by
*our o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Notfoik
each fucceecling day, by five in the afternoon :
Returning, to leave Norfolk every Wednesday,
Friday and Monday, by (ix in the morning, and
arrive at Richmond each succeeding <lav, by fix in
the evening
In Virginia and North-Carolina
.10. From Pctcr/iurg,. by Hali/u >, E<" horou, h and J
Smithjitld, 10 faycUcvli'tr. The mail to leave Petcri
burg every Friday, at one o'clock, in the afternoon,
and arrive at Riyetteville the next Monday, by
eight in the evenrng : Returning, to leave Faj ette
ville every Tuesday, by tour m the morning, and
arrive at Peter the next' Friday, by eleven in
i (he forenoon.
In North Carolina an d Georgia
-11. From Fayt tteville, by Ciieraw Court-
Houfc, Camden, Columbia and Ojnbiidge, to
Augulta, The mail to leave Fayeitcville every
Tueiday, by tour in the reach Camden
ihe ncxx day by five in the afternoon, and arrive
at Augulta the next Saturday by noon : keturn
ing 10 icave Auguitarvery Ihuilday, at five ini'ie
morning, anive at Camden the next Sunday by
five in the morning, and at Fayettevtilc the next
Monday, by eight in the evening.
12. From Augujla tc 6avunnah. The mail to
leave Augusta eve: y Saturday, at one o'clock iii the
afternoon, and arrive at Savannah the next Mon
day morning by ten : Returning, to leuve Savan
nah evirv Monday, at two o'clock in the after
noon, and arrive at Augylia the next Wcdneiday,
by five in the afternoon.
13 From Carr-c*' n i<»
icn'Jc C«.i."jden every lhurlday by tour iii 0-
morning, and an ive at Siauiburg by eight : i<c
-1 urning, to leave Stalt Iburg ever y Salurday, at tv\ o
in the afternoon, and arrive at Camden by fix.
In Massachusetts, Rhode-Island and Con-
NF.CTICUT. 1
14. From Bojlon 10 Providence. The mail to |
leave Bolton evciy Monday and lhuriday, by fix
in ihc morning, and arrive the fame days at Pro
vidence, by five in the afternoon : Returning, to ;
leave Providence every Wednesday and Saturda), ■
by fix in the morning, and arrive the lame days ,
at Boilon, by five in the afternoon. i
Per (cms offet ing proposals for this eontraft.
are defued also to (late the terms on which they
will carry the mail between Boston and Provi
dence, three times a week, and every day in the
week (Sunday excepted ) in calc a itagc waggon
should run so often between those two places.
15. From Providence, by Norwich, to Haulorcs.
The mail to leave Piovidence every 7 uelday and
Friday, by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive
at Norwich the fame days, and at Hartford or
Wednesday and Saturday, by five in the noon :
Returning, to cave Hartford every Monoay and
Thursday, at fcven in the morning, arrive at NOl
- the lame days, and ?r Promde.nce on Tttt'l.
cfay aiu-i Jiiday, by live 1:1 the alter noon.
Pei sons offering proposals for this
arc also desired to ftatc the terms on which they
will carry the mail between Piovidence and Hait
ford three times a week, if a stage waggon should 1
run so often between those two places.
16. From New-London to Newport, thence by
Brijlol and Warren 10 Providence, thence by Green
wick to Newport, and from Newport to New-London.
The mail to leave New-London every Tuesday,
at two in the afternoon, and arrive at Newport the
next day by fix in the evening ; leave Newport
I every Friday at eight in the morning, and airive
at Providence the fame day by fix in the evening ;
! have Providence on Saturday at eight in the mom
j ing, and palling through Greenwich, arrive at
Newport the fame day by fix in the evening; leave-
Newport the next Monday at eight in the
ing, and arrive at New-London the next day by
ten in the forenoon.
17. From New-Haven to New-London : The mail
to leave New-Haven every Monday, at eight in
the morning, and arrive at New-London every
Tuesday by ten in the forenoon :—Returning, to
leave New-London every Tuesday at two o'clock
in the afternoon, and arrive at New-Haven every
Wednesday afternoon by fix.
18. From Midd/etown to New-London. The mail
to leave Middletown, from November fiift to May
fir ft, every Thursday morning, and from May to
November, every Friday morning, by eight
o'clock ; and arrive at New-London by fix in the
evening of the day of its departure : ,Retuining,
to leave New-London each next succeeding day by
eight in the morning, and arrive at Middletown!
by fix 111 the evening
In New-York.
19. Between the city of New-York (by Kingf
bridge, Poughkeepfit, and the city of Hudson) and
Albanv. The carriers, with the mails, to leave
Mew-York and Albany every Monday and Thurs
day, by loii r in the morning, meet, and return to
each place on Wednesday and Saturday, by fix in
the evening.
In Pennsylvania.
20. From Philadelphia, by Lancajler, York-town,
Carlisle, Shipper/burg, Lhamberjburg, Bedford and
Greenjburg to Pitt/burg. The mail to leave Phila
delphia every S-itui day at noon, and arrive at F'ittf
burg the next I"i iday by noon ; remain there not
less than four, nor more than fix hours, return
to Philadelphia the following Friday by noon.
In the State cj Delawakf.
21. From Wilmington, by Kew-Cajile, Can tw til's
Bridge, ana Duck Creek, to Dover. The mail to
leave Wilmington everv Monday afternoon, by
five o'clock (or as soon as the mail from Philadel
phia is leceived) and anive at Dover by five in the
evening of Tuesday : Returning, to leave Dover
every Wednesday morning by five o'clock, and
arrive at Wilmington by seven in the evening of
the fame day.
In Delaware and M ar y l a n d.
22. From Ctnidiana Bridge, by Middletown,
Warwick and George-town Cross-Roads, to Ches
ter-town, and thence to Eafton. The mail to
leave Chrifliana Bridge every Monday afternoon,
I by fix o'clock (or as (con as the mail /torn Phi la
129
delphia is received) aud arrive at Eafton by fix in
the evening of J uelday : Returning, to leave ii,al
ton every Wednesday morning by five o'clock,
and arrive at Chriltiana Bridge in the evening ul
the fame day, by eight o'clock.
Persons ottering proposals for carrying
thib mail, are desired to (tale the terms on wlneh
tl.cy will carry it from May firft to November full,
by leaving Philadelphia every Monday at half pail
nine, A. M. and reaching Cailon the next day by
Isou r, P. M.—and ieturmng, leave Eafton every
Wednesday by four, A. M. and arrive at Philadel
phia tue next day by noon : And perform the
lame tour, during the other half of the year, be
tween half pail nine o'clock of every Monday, and
noon ot the next Sattuday. And also their teirns
tor carrying an additional mail between Philadel
phia and Chcftertown, leaving Philadelphia every
Wednesday and Friday at hajt past nine, A. M.
and returning the fourth day after by noon.
23. From Baltimore to Annapolis. The mail to,
leave Baltimore every Monday and Friday, at
eight in the morning, and arrive at Annapolis the
fame days by five in the afternoon ". Returning, to
leave Annapolis every Tuesday and Saturday by
eight in the morning, and arrive at Baltimore the
j fame days by five in the afternoon.
In Virginia avd Nokth-Caroi '.ka
24. I'lom tfujfein, f»ytdenton, Plymouth,V/a/hmg
and Newl/cru, to Wilmington : ihe mail to leave
Suifolk every Wednefdav at tour o'clock in the
morning, and arrive at Wilmington the next Sa
turday, by iix in the evening : Returning, to
leave Wilmington every Monday by four in the
morning, and arrive at Suffolk the next Thursday
by fix in the evening.
In North-Carolina
?5- From Halifax by BlountJvilUy Willizmjlown, I
and Baileys, to Plymouth, once in two weeks:—The
mail to leave Halifax every other Mondav by five j
o'clock in the morning, and ariive at Plymouth]
the next day by fix in th? evening : Returning, to
leave Plymouth the next Thursday by five in the
morning, and arrive at Halifax on Friday by Hve
in the evening. /
Note i. If during the continuance of the con
tra£ls here proposed, any other times of arrival
and departure of the mails Ihould become necef
lary, to preserve a proper connection with other
mails, the contra&ors are to conform to any ar
rangement which for that purpose shall be made
by the Post-Master Genera!, such arrangement not
Irffening the number of hours above allowed for
rarrying the mail* rcfpt&ively, without their con
sent.
.v-y ;i.. fc .'irr4T"rnT?cinnrrprTTtsn len minutes,
nor exceeding halt an hour,for opening and closing
a mail is to he allowed at each I'oft-OHicejat which
the time of its ar rival and departure is not hetein
fpecificd
3. For every half hour's delay (unavoidable
ccrdents excepted) in arriving after the times pre
scribed in any contratt, the contrattor to forfeit
one dollar ; and for the non-peiformance ol a trip,
double the sum which the value of one trip fha 1 i
bear to the value of the whole number of trips to
be performed.
4. The mail may be carried on any of the port
roads herein described, either in stage waggons or
on horses : but when the state of the roads pre
vents travelling in waggons with the necellary ex
pedition, the mails are to be carried on horses.—
Every niail-flage mult have in it a box in which
the mail is invariably to be carried, under lock
and key.
5. News-papers, as well as letters, to be
sent in the mails : and if any coivtraftor would
wish to be authoiized to carry news-papers, other
than those conveyed in the mail (agreeably to the
22d feCtiori of the pod-office law) he mud, in his
proposals, date the relbedlive sums for which he
will carrv the mails with and without the emolu
ments which may atife from such ieparate carriage
of news-papers.
NEW POST ROADS,
In New-York, Massachusetts & Vkrmost,
An extension of the Poll roads having been de
fired,from CorinojorharricxoWhitcS'town, and thence
to Kan.anda.iqua, in the date of New-York ; from
to Bennington. in the dates of MaHachu
fetts and Vermont ; and fiom Rutland to Windjor,
and Rutland to Fairhaven, in Vermont : Proposals
for carrying mails on those routs, (at the expense
of the contra&ors) will he received at the General
Pod-Office, until the fifteenth day of November
next mclulively. — Persons offering such proposals,
mud date the days and hours when t hey will re
ceive and deliver the mails at each place here
mentioned, and the length of time (which cannot
exceed eight years) for which,they will contra#.
The contractors, refpe&ivelv, will have the ex
clusive privilege of carrying letters and packets on
these roads, for hire ; and be authorized to re
ceive, to their own ulc, all the podages which diall
a rife, on letters, packets and newfp'ftpers by them
carried, at the rates edablifhed by law : but mud
carry, free of podage, such letters and packets as
by law are, or (hall be declared free.
Forever) hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in delivering a mail, after the time a
greed on, the contra£lor to forfeit one dollar;
and for the non-performance of a trip, one dollar
for eveiy ten miles didance, as far as the failure
extends.
The persons whom the contra&ors
nate for Postmasters, on these routes, —previous to
their atting as such, mud be approved by the Post-
Maller General, and take the oaths required by
law. They are to agree for their compensations
with the contractors, to whom alone they are to
account for all the postages they shall receive.
Thl fame oaths mufl be taken by the contra&ors
and their riders who carry the mails.
TIMOTHY I'ICKERINC,
v Pojt-M aster-General
[Whole No. 555.]
EOWEN's FXHIBITION OF
w ax-Work & Paintings,
AT the House lately occupied by Mrs. Pine,
in Eighth-ilreet, is ndw ready for t!ie en
tertainment of the Public. Among a great
variety of Paintings, are a number of
ITALIAN & FRENCH PIECES,
which are new and very pleating.
Alio, a collection of
NEW WAX FIGURES.
The Exhibition is operr every day, from nine
o'clock in the morning, until nine in the even
ing. Admittance Half a Dollar for Ladies
and Gentlemen, and hajprice for Children.
Ticket", for the season, (not transferable)
Two Dollars.
For Sale, at the Exhibition Rooms,
LIKENESSES of the PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES, in WAX,
And a variety of Elegant PRINTS in Frames.
Sept. 21. • (eptf)
Grand Family Bible.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
An ELEGANT EDITION of the
SACRED SCRIPTURES
Of the OLD and NEW TESTAMENTS, with the
Apoc r y pha,
0n a very Urge and beanlijul vew Type, and/uperjtnf
to., j.—
Paper,
THE great importance of the JHoly Scriptures,
interesting to every individual; the divine excel
lence of its do&rines and precepts, and the beauty
and fublimitv of its paflages, have so long made it
a capital objedl of attention, as to preclude occa
sion or opportunity for eulog'iim.
The piety or enterprise of individuals has pre
sented this invaluable book to the public in a va
riety ot forms ; in some editions it has been highly
embellilhed with superb engravings, which have
greatly enhanced its price ; in others it has been
accompanied with voluminous commentaries,
which neceflarily encreafed the Cue; while a va
riety of plain cheap copies have generally diftuffd
the knowledge of the Scripui»e, and, made the
ourchafe easy to every class.
Without wishing in the smallest degree to lessen
ih«_ nu-iita P» whether pJaitt
or ornamented, which the public aie already in
polfcflion of, it is pertinent to remark, that very
many readers of taste and judgment have expreflcd
a wish tor a Family Bible unencumbered with ad
ditions. There Hill appears room ior another
edition on a beautiful new type, superior in fise
and elegance to any bible that has yet been printed
in the English language, and which, leaving the
adventitious circumstances of ornament or com
ment, may exhibit the Oraclcs oj God in their na
tive limplicity.
SPECIMEN OF THE TYPE.
5 And God said,
d Let there be light: and
there was light.
With refpetlful fubmifHon to the judgment and
candour of the puirlic, the following are
offered :
I. The wotk shall"be printed with thegjr?teft
fidelity and attention to corre&nefs both in the
text and marginal references, on a fuperfine Paper
made on purpose, with an elegant new Type call
for the work of the size of the above Specimen.
11. The work will be comprised in twenty
numbers, nuking two elegant volumes in Folio ;
to be lurnifhed to fubfetibers at one cfollar each
number. To prevent any complaints of want of
punctuality, no patt of the work will be delivered
unless paid tor.
111. The full number, containing sixty folio
pages, elegantly printed, will be furnifbed on the
rtrft Saturday of July next, when fubferibers are
to pay the price of the firft and second numbers,
and the price of one number to be always in ad
vance till the work is completed. The subsequent
numbers to be published regularly on the firlt Sa
turday of each fuccecding month, till the whole
is finilhed.
(p3T Subscriptions will be received in Philadel
phia by the Publi{hcrs, Thomas Dob son, No. 41,
South Second-street, and John Parker, No. 259,
North Second-street; and by all the Bookfcllers :
in Charleston, by William B. Young ; Richmond,
hv Aichibald Currie ; Baltimore, bv James Rice ;
Wilmington, by Peter Brynberg ; New-York, by
Thomas Allen; New-Haven, bv Isaac Beers;
Providence, (R. I.) bv William Wilkinfon; Sa
lem, by Thomas Cnlhing ; Boston, by David.
Weft, Benjamin Guild, and Thomas & Andrews.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL, HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Of the very fiift quality, and latefl importation
from Camou, via New-York, by retail, at
No. Ip,
Th-ird,between Chcfnut and Market Streets.
WANTED—TO RENT,
From the last of O£lober next,
(f3T A convenient House, zn or nefbr the centre of
the City.—Enquire ojthe Editor.FROM THE PENNSYLVANIA GAZETTE.
1 *;• 11.
Obs er v at ions on the Letters of " A Fa k m e r>
Aidujjtd to the Yconuinr\oj the United btJtes.
(CONTIN'I ED.)
it FARMER" seems dtfpofed to alarm j
J. the hatters and tanneis with luggeftionsj
that their saw materials may be cugroiled «nd
made objifls offpeculation, but the third lec
tion »(' tiie New-Jei fey law forbids the company
to deal or trade in any raw materials but iuc 1
as are fit and necessary for the articles it manu
factures, ami such as shaH be really raid truly
obtained therefor. It is known that they have
determined upon thoie branches which :equiie
water spinning machinery (a cale peculiarly hap
py as there are not two hundred water ipmcles
in the United States) and the imports oi the
goods they propose to make are ten times as
great as their whole capital ltock, much oi
which they/vill invest in buildings, lots, imple
ments, machinery, working carriages and cat-
tie. It is plain that bark, lime, and hides for
the tanners could not be supplied to thefn from
any distance, and they could notengrofs either.
In refpeft to wool and our country iurs, the
fame remarks apply to them, an J it they were
tixpurchafe foreign furs they would no doubt do
it abroad : But they do not appear to have in
vie\V any thing but the spinning and cotton dy
ing and calico printing business, and are appro
priating their funds extensively to those branches.
44 The Farmer" declares the grants ot pri
vileges, even such as t.;ey aie, to be uncoiifti
tutional. Surely, then, there is no danger from
them, as fiey mult be void and of no e;fe&. It
he will examine the civil lift of New-Jer.ey, he
will find no reason to apprehend, from the gen-
tlemcn wba compose it, the enforcing of un-
constitutional laws.
The origin and design of the New-Jersey ma
nufacturing society has been frequently miiun-
dcrftood and misrepresented. In the year 179 1 >
several months after the government had been
transferred from New-York, the Secretary of
the Treasury formed the plan. It was repre-
fented, that one of the great objections to ma-
nufa&ures in the United States was the want
of money ; and although there was manifeftly a
greater abundance of a<stive capital in 179 1 than
for years before, yet thee was no profpeft ot
an early application of a sum equal to a moiety
of a capital of any one of the firft fifty manufac
turers and traders in Great-Britain, France,
Holland, Germany, or Flanders, by any indivi-
dual. An union of many individuals was the
only mode that could be adopted ; and as there
was supposed to be Tome rifque,it was certainly
a prudent method, as each would take care not
to subscribe so largely as to hurt hiinfelf, if* a
failure Hiould take place. Tiie subscribers, to
avoid rifquing more than their fnbfcriptions,
were, of course, to apply for an incorporation,
and it was not all probable the furn would
have been fubfcribedwithout one. The several
banks in Philadelphia, New-York, Boston, Bal-
timore, Providence, 6cc. had be«m mado
the fame way, and the inland navigation com
panies and turnpike road companies in the Ca
rolinas, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New-
York, &c. have been composed in like manner.
Moreover, as it was manifeft, that active capi-
tal was flowing into and arising in the United
States very rapidly, there was a sincere and fe
jious apprehenlion that evils would arise from
it, particularly a profufe eoii!um,>tion, unless
objeCts to employ it were provided, and it ap
peared therefore a reasonable belief that the
want of capital, after One well-deviled and fuc
ce sful plan, would ceale to be among the ob
je&ions to manufactures. It isearneltly wilhed,
that the body of the /hip owners in the United
States may not furnilh an initance of an overap
plication of capital, in one of the old mode-,
which, as it is a talh business, must be accom
panied with an actual excels of money. The
recent banks, canals, and road-, de
monstrate, that without new objects,large sums
of money must have laid unemployed. With
the iinpreffions above stated the plan of the ma
nufacturing company was adopted, and it would
be happy for Pennsylvania If her "Farmer"
would promote the eftubiilhinent of such an im
ftitution on that great interior canal, the river
Sufquehannah, under the auspices of the State
Legislature. The yeomanry would find, that
the capital and industry of the manufacturing
citizens would be wifely directed to the spot,'
where their cattle, grain, wood, hemp, flax,
wool,Bc iron, would be demanded by confuraers,
without encountering the costly charge, and,
in some instances, the insupportable exjence,
of transportation to a sea-port. Several of
these institutions would give a front to Ameri
can manufactures which is ncceffary in their
competition with foreign commodities. But to
return to the New-Jersey manufactory : It ap
peared prudent to take a position in that State
for the purpose of interesting N;w-York and
Philadelphia, and as New-Jersey has verv little
foreign commerce, it was prefunied that both
her legislature and her citizens would promote
so valuable a branch of internal trade. The
latter have accordingly fubferibed handsomely,
and the State, knowing that thele new enter
prizes are attended with great expences at the
commencement, with risque, and sometimes
with tof-., authorised the company to rai r e by
lottery 103, odd dollars, as an indemnification.
Their real estate was exempted from State tax
es for ten years, and their stock, or personal
property, altogether. These taxes, however,
as before oblerved, will be very small under the
State laws, and they will be so remote, that the
manufacturers in other parts of the Union can
not be "eniible of their efieCts.
" The Farmer's" suggestion that the com
pany will be enabled, by the temporary advan
tage of a lottery, to undersell, is not even plau
libie ; for we know that merchants and manu
facturers d> not use their occasional advantages
for the absurd purpose of undeiTelling their
neighbours for a short time, but to encreafe
" their own fubi. aiicc and (lock : And it t'wy
were-to ihe cheaper; for i', the purchasers
and , ti.-at is, "tU 6 nat tody of «<
wmaiir)-" a1, " 1,L w ' a ° re illtelell thc " Fa *JJ® R
■ .yilhes to apfea.- very anxious, would be bene
fited by it.
It will he perceived by every reader, that t ie
letters whicii are under examination, are not
confined to the measure's which have been con
templated in regard to American (or natioiia )
manuiaiHuicS. The the navigation
laws, the the public credit, and t.e re
venues of the United States, have each lukain
ed his eiforts to wound them. The New-Jerk}
manufactory ha; occupied but a part of his let
cers. A concluding number will theietoie
employed in the examination of his four art teles
of impeachments (on the Tixth page) agamit tue
Proficient of the United States, the majorities
of the two Houfcs of and the S<rcre
tarv of the Treasury, in behalf of each of whom
. the* plea is 44 not guilts, 1 " and the appeal to tbf
- P eo P le> A freeman.
From the Independent Chronicle.
Mr. Adams, ~
\ S the friends of civil liberty witn at al.
A times to be acquainted with every queftidn
which appears to regard the public weal, a great
number of gentlemen in thi-, and the neig. bojir
ing towns, ;-ave fubferibed for the Satonal Ga
zette, publiihed by Mr. Philip Fnncau, at Phila
delphia ; and it is hoped that Enncau s Gazette,
which is said to be printed under the eye of that
eftablilhed patriot and republican Thomas jefer.
/"on, will be generally taken in tne New-England
States.
From the Columbian Centinel.
A CORRESPONDENT in the last Chronicle,.*
recommends to tiie people ot New- ng an
a general perusal of the Nntional Gazeltt, a
to be printed under the eye of that _ c 1 ,
patriot and republican, 1 homai JeJjcrJon. e •
ther this is intended as an avowal, on de part.
of Mr. JeJfcJon, that he is the real-, and the
imprudent trcneau, only the nommtl Editor of
this chaste Gazette, the public is at a lo.s to de- ;
termine. The advice is adapted to all, who,
delight in the most virulent abuse on a govern
ment, framed and administered by the people o
America, to the honor, dignity and happmefs ot
the country. And all who affect too much!
learning to have anv piety, will be pleased witi
the recommendation. The clergy ot our coun-1
try and rel gion constantly ricucule
mud alfor'd a rch repast to Infidels and t'ee- (
Thinkers.—To deprive us of all confidence i«|
a government, instituted and adnuruftere pyj
ouri'elves; and under the auspices oi w 11c t e
United States have progrefTed si rtm difcorc, po
verty and contempt, to harmony, wea.th and
honor, is a task worthy the pen ot a malignant
stranger.—To take from us all trust in that re
ligion, fur which our pious ancestors exchanged!
a civilized country for the wilderneft, and on
which we build our brightest hopes, lo £ L !
ne s in tnis, and a future world, may a
light to 1 man
ought to be well founded in his aflei tions, be
fore he brings forward Mr. JrferJon, as the
patron of such a Gazette.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE USITF.D STATES,
TO ARISTIDES.
INDEED, Mr. Anjlides, you merit epac'-Ji
much more than your nameake of old ; no
however for being too jujl or too honest, hut
iirft, for having become the champion of a per
son whom you have yourfelfchriftened'Hu/a/wf;
and secondly, for having made so very clumi;
a defence for your patron. For the iirft offcno
vou merit the animadversion of all good citi
zens, and for the latter, the censure of you
friend. It han old faying, but a true one, am
:ertainly ve. ified in this instance, that a ma:
frequently loi'es more bv the folly of us 1 riend s
:nan the wickedness of his enemies. Let us ex
unine a little your piece, and we ihall iind tha
ou have not attempted to clear Mr. |
Vom some of the weighty charges allc-dg«
igainft him bv the Avow »: and that in fart yt..
lave not only admitted others, but even provei
hem vourfelf to demonftration.—lt is a ver;
afv matter to answer diaries by employing t!.<
ompous terms of " virulent abu r e, basest ca
amnyftnd fallhood, iniidious purposes, llabbing
eputations, base and wicked calumuiator,
owardly aflaflin, unprovoked and unmanly at
ack, depravity of heart," and a long it ring o
mmeaning words, which might with great pro
iriety have been applied to the productions o:
/lr. J 's Gazette for near a twejvemontl
'alt; but it is not, as AriJliJcsbns hiinfelf evincec
n this occasion, so easy to refute plain charges'
ounded in truth, and now in the mouth of ever'
one!I citizen who is attached to his country
nd (hocked at the present attempts to dlfturt
ts tranquillity ajid happiness. 1 lhali now (hew
\\'dt Ariflidcs has not attempted an anfwerto tht
ery serious charge made in the publication
eferred to, of his patron's hav ing set up a news
•aper in this city, for the express purpoft o:
bufmg and traducing the Secretary of the Trea
ury; though his piece is written profefledly t<
xculpate Mr. j from the charges made
iy the American,yet there is noteven a glance at
'latjiriouj charge ; and so far lie has arted with
nire wisdom than in any other part ofhis pub
-1 cation, as the most prudent mode of answering
n unanfwera'.'e accusation, is to pass it over
n 'ilenee. "Without designing it, however,
ti has confirmed that cnarge bsvond the
' tradition even of an oath. He tells us ; n
■oe place, that Mr. J is i: o pp o r ed ' t0
om, ol the principles of the funding lyftem, of
le national bank, and of certain other measures
t the Secretary of the Treasury;" and the
'..per filled t' e National Gazette, has, from its
uit eitaohfliment, teemed with
■;i.nft .bmeof the principles cf the fundm
>uein, of the national bank, and certain other
ueafures ot the Secretary of the Treafurv."
130
11l am.t'jc-r place lie lifti n lisi language, ac.
announces Mr. J '» "Morrcnu of toW 0
the leading principle'; of Mr. Hajnilton s fcfca
admiutfb ation and accordingly Mr. J -
pre's has groaned ever since its birth wit.
its abhorrence of the leading principles ui Mj
Hamilton's tifcat administration.
But Anji>d.:< fays further, t! -* 'his abhorreno
is declared by his patron with a mei A j'ccd. m
How far he may declare his fentiinents on thi
.I,ljject with m.mlyjrreaom among his own party
is belt known to them ; but certain it is, tha
in other societies he is diltirrguifhed for a ver
different mode of procedure ; cautiou-: end fny
wrapped up in impenetrab e lilence and myfte i >
lie reserves his a/ihorrcnce for the arcana ol
snug fam'taary, where l'eated on ii
pivot-chair, and involved in ail the obfeurjt
myilery and deception, {.injliaes wi
exeme lue for employing his own expreWjens
he compounds and, with the aid of his aftiv
tools, circulates liis poil'on thro'.the medium o
the National Gazette. .
Let us now take a view of the answer v. hie
you have g ven to the twocharges (not the prin
cipal one-) which the American has made again!
yi v , ] The firft is, that he was oppofc<
to the present Constitution of the United States
of this you propose to prove the mal gnitv an<
faifhood, -and how do you fuccecd? Why, truh
bv producing a fragment oi a fpeechof Mr. 1 cn
die ton in the Virginia Convention, in winch i
quoted a fragment of a letter from Mr. J ;
• V.) n the junction ot which two fragments
it appears that Mr. J had fcen the Con
llitution, and liked some pa', ts ot it that h<
iad prepared some amendments to it—and tha
provided his amendments were made part of it
ie wished it to be adoptee!—-other wiie, not. i
lis letter has any meaning—-an,c\ 1 conic s it i:
fifficult to find a precise one, the plain Englifl
)f it is, no constitution without my amendments
In one part of this curious letter of advice, lit
ays—Allopt the Confvitution, that you may fe
.lire tli.e gredt and in.'portant good it contains ; thei
ie I'uddenly wheels about (I luppoe he wa:
bated or his phut when he wrote that epillle
von't adopt it by any means if nine Hates hav (
11 ready done so, without my amendment .. Bu'
lere, as it his terfatilc chair had whilked ah<>uti
econd time, he adds byway of a iecondpoft !c ript
sut vou lDuft adopt at all events, rather thai
iroduce a lchifni. In Ihort, his opinion appear:
o have been as veriatile as his chair, and as ii
chools, applications to the breech are lard t<
iave a wonderful eifetTt on the bead, by dm io|
ip learning, so there appears to be such a won
erful connexion between the leat and the heac
if this great politician, and the motions ot tn<
>ne have such a powerful eifeet on the operation:
jf the other, that we may fay with th.e Amcri
:an poet —
But Jftould his Honor raise Bum-Jiddle,
The Charm would break off in the middle.
Mr. Pendleton makes a pretty commentary
on tl is epiflle ; Mr. j withes the iirl
nine States to adopt it, what are ids lealbus
Because it will secure to us the good it contain
which he thinks great and important, and !n
vH};r s the otlter four mav refufe it, becau'e hi
, thinks it will tend to obtain necSHITy amend
merits ; but be would not with that a JchiJi
lhould take place in the union, on any conjid, rut'on
According to this coriftrudtion ct the text, i
ieems that the question before a State conven
lion ought to have been in what numerical or
der the State ftcod ; if Ihe was the nn.th Stat,
about to consider the constitution, then it wa
unneceiTary to discuss its merits,it mult be adopt
ed at all events, but if the happened to be th<
tenth, it must be rejected at all events wi thou
any enquiry into its merits j the co .nderatioi
of the conlHtution in both cases would 1»a v<
been nugatory —the firft confederation of th<
convention would be, how many States had al
ready adopted, and accordingly it would only b<
nccellary to ascertain that fart, which bcii.j
done, the adoption or rejection tollowedof coiufe
and though in other caiesit lhould leem that tin
more States had adopted a measure, the mor<
one would consider it a wife one and agreeablt
to the people—yet in this ca r e our ingenious po
litic.an recommends a rule direct .y the reverie
and the more States have adopted the conltitu
tion the less recommendation lhould it havt
with the remainder. But when this lage advict
was given it did not occur to its author tha'
two conventions might be in fell on at. the famt
time and that either of them by its ratificatioi
would make the number mis ; what is to be don<
then C If his advice Was good for Virginia, itwa:
*ood for all the other States; how will they fettli
the etiquette, which is t.) be the adopter with
sut amendments, and which is to 1 oid o!f foi
amendments ; there must be conferences be
tween them, in which not a fvliable would b<
"aid about the ion ft' 1 tut ion itlcii, but limply;
li'cuflion wh.ich oug'ir to adopt to make up ti.i
number vine ; —lhould this contest have hap
pened between a very large and ,a very final
State, Virginia and Delaware for instance, tin
lifpute inight eaiily be fettled-—Virginia wouh
laturallv fay, do you adopt and we will drivi
:hem into;.mendnients by withhold ng our alien t
uid little Delaware would yield to the will c
:he great and antient dominion ; but luppo'i
the contest between Virginia and
uid neither would adopt—how then ? Or be
ween Pennfylyania and Malfachnfetts, an<
loth would ado.-t—how then ? Or between twi
Vnall States, for instance, Georgia and Rhode
!(land—how then ? If no compact CvUild he made
md both refufed to adopt, the andimportun
would not he fecureti; if both should adopt
here would be no longer the magic number nint
mt ten and less chance for amendn.ent-;. Bu
11 this is to be accompli Hied without fc ve
y probable event ! Suppole the four large!
tates, vi?,. Virginia, Penufylvania, Maliachu
etts and New-York had rejj "ted 'the conltitu
io*i, and insisted upon all the amendments whic
heir conventions required : is it probable th
ther l'ine States would without a schism ant
struggle have relinquilhed their opinions, ot
uffer themselves to be brow-beat into a ftr'mg
►f amendments which they, when they accepted
AN AMERICAN.
the constitution, deemed frivolou iat ■
or injurious Or on tr.e other lj, J'
four linalleft States in the union wiuhe d t
content 111 order to ol.tam amendment! i
likely the others would have theiriu
threats . In short, this lagacious poliuci n ,
ther meant to write luch a letter as lie tum-'.t
would pieafe both parties, not knowin, t %
which was likely to preponderate, which ird-ed
accounts for its having been quoted by' both
parties like a convenient iaw tale ; or; cjne 11
to publilh one of tho,e visionary political ip ecu .
lations wittf which he is well know,, i„ luu c h to
abound. Mr. Pundleton -ays, "Mr.
is poil'eiied of the conftitutiott and has in hi ,
the Idea of amending it"; it is tub,,
hedid not Kate t ,e purport of those amendine, t
the curiolity ot the public wouid undoubted,'h'
granhed with a f.glu of then. ; it is not ispV
jable they are oi a fuiiilar complexion with
iome of the wi.d schemes of government which
lie is laid to have recommended about that t i, e
to a let of raw politicians at Parir, mice known
bv* the title of trtragts or madmen, who ignorant
thems'elve} ot every principle of free and ration
al government fwaiicwed greedily every pro
- of our American politician, and by their in.
temperance and fury drove out of France nil
thole enlightened and patriotic citizens the
Abbe Sieves, Mouiiier, Lally Tollendal', Lc
who fought tor a well poiled government, pro
perly checked ; and who foreiaw all the talanii
ties to which their country would be expolcd
by surrendering up ail the .powers of the go
vernment to a let of ignorant enthufefts and
indigent fanatics. Those calamities have flow
burst upon that beautiful but unfortunate coun-
try, aricl the miferablefufferers may thank the
American Philofopbe'r for a great portion of
them. At that time he countenanced one branch
of and if conjiftent he inuft have re
commended the fan e policy to the United States
in his amemiinents; he has lince been lenilble
3f the miseries which France has experienced
principally from that vice in her fyltettl, andte
s now persuaded and acknowledges that France
,vill never have a fettled and good government
without two branches. His advice however
•omes too lute, the mifchief is done ; the enra
res have acquired Inch an ascendancy in tbe
S T ational Alfembly that they ha<Jb solemnly vo
ed execrations against all the advocates for two
[ranches —they are too well pleased with their
)ower to fu'rrender it or divide it with another
jranch, and while they can pass what laws they
Djeafe and extort the Royal fan&ion by fending
in armed mob to threaten the King's life, and
jully him into their measures, it is not te be ex
je&ed tnut any change will take piace with
heir conlent. The part which the American
Minister took in laying the foundation of this
Cyftem accounts for the wonderful anxiety dis
played by himfelf and his friends for its fucceft,
in opposition to his better judgment on experi
ence and maturer reflexion.—Thus a parent
Jo\ es his olfspring though iie lees his deformity.
The letter lo often quoted fays, " But v;e
Inuft take care, however, that neither this nor
any other objections to the form, produce a
Jihijm in our L nien"—and his commentator, Mr.
fays, "-But Mr. J would not
with that a schism Ihould take place in the Union,
on an) conjidcr-i-ion" So thought and so wrote
Mr. J at Paris some years ago; he then
was the warm advocate of Union—he depre
cated a schism—Union at all events—schism
on no confederation, fays the A r at
Paris. What fays the S yof £ eat
Philadelphia ? Alac—he (peaks a very different
language : he proclaims his abhorrence of the
funding system and the bank—measures which
five received the fan&ion of the Icgiflature of
the nation, and of the President ; lie declares
ppen v ar;:;. iii li the Sec • rtan of the Treasury,
for having recommended then:—he eftablifhcs
1 newspaper as a battery to keep up a perpe
tual fire upon him—and in patronizing rheover
throw of those important measures. he lays the
foundation of schism and discord throughout the
LJnior.—an executive officer of the national go
vernment, instead of harmonizing for the gcod
;f his country with his colleague, he openly and
n owedly traduces, calumniates ard execrates
lis adminiltrationj and thereby gives birth to
•actions and parties, which, unless loon cncck
fti, may ii volve hi-, couuuy in all the horrors
jf anarchy.—How is this fu r prizir.g cl anp;e to
>e accounted for ? To dire ai»bition, the ruin of
b manv empires, we may trace its At
Mr. j , the re pre tentative of the
\rnerican ration, wished for Union, becauv it
vould promote its profperitv, and enhance ins
lignity i but at Philadelphia, Mr. J fears
n M' • Hamilton a formidable rival, andthere
jre the -'boner he can ruin hnn in the puonc
■llimation, the hotter for hi r purpose.
•nd were ail his means to be direeled on t e
me hand, a monstrous affe&ation of
mblicanifm, primitive ano'extno
linary zeal for the public good—on te
• and, to cry down the funding Item, '
he ekcife law, as emanations.from t
aryof the Treasury, to endeavor
boie measures odious to tlie peop ,
t tribute them ail to Mr. Hamilton
ions. Tim in luppoit of the 1" <
*lem, w eve (tvh't .ij.* 1 ] " :l '
.ttachwent to republican!!)!', .'J 11 j iu .
voiiderful humility on ail occafior»- .
ev veils ofi.io.ii.uate ambition,
V, tw..'.-culate entoimums 01 ins
■titration, and abuieon his
The charge therefore is we M 0
hat Mr. J- " tbe
national lf
~ Jit—for the /<!..;.■ Bj l ; eh -.' |
lot loon checked, end in a '^rors
■iiarre rel|.eftin S the Dutch c
.ittfj.h; -hy-!.dlefupprer 0 ,
fheV't >" direalr **
--nrt: ,v
on's observation that. no ,l of mankind accompanied Mr. J 's
abilities with a difpolition to make them of use
for the good of his feliow citizens." It is to be
lamented that he is so much altered now ; foi
certainly the use to which he nozu applies his
abilities, particularly his talent fur intrigue and
party-work, evince a dilpoiition hostile to the
good of his fellow citizens, and deltru&ive oi
their future welfare. As to his being what
Arijlides calls him an old meritonous public fer
.vant, it is l'uppofed his eminent lervices in Vir
ginia, at the time of Tarlton's invaiipn, are al
luded to; and as to the crime of An American, iq
attacking Mr. J during his ablence, this
would not have happened had he been attending
♦lis duty where he ought to be. SCOURGE.
From iht (Bojlon) Columbian (.'cntinel-
*' T HAVE no manner of doubt, that
X the inflexible integrity,
and superior abilities of the Vice-
President, in addition to his inde
pendence of party views and con
nexions, are the only faults he has ;
and thele, I allure you, are insupera
ble in the eyes of his enemies. For
xhefe they never will cease to perse
cute him : But may our country be
wile—and still oppose him to the arts
the unprincipled, as the fliield of
their liberties. This, he has been
undeviatingly for more than twentj
years."
PARIS, July 18.
Speech made the 14th of July, at
the inauguration of the firft stone of
the column of liberty, on the ruins
of the Battile :
" On the ruins of the cavern of
despotism, the column of Liberty e
letfts iifie!t". It will no' be so %afy for
tyrants to dettroy our. labors, as it
was for citizens to overturn the
Baltile. It is due to the Representa
tives of the people to lay its founda
tion—we fee atnopg thein i hree, who,
with us, dared 011 this ground, the
cannon of despotism : they swore with
us a mortal hatred to the enemies of
the people ; they ha.ie kept their
oath. Since tyranny ft iII dares to
raise its hideous head, let us swear
together to give it a death wound.
All Kings conspire to ruin the French
nation. Let us then swear to detkroy
the conspiring Kings. Jt is time to
reap the fruit of our work, and tofee
the reign of anarchy succeeded by
the funthine of law and equality."
Where the Ballile stood there was
an iuunenfe tenr, brilliantly orna
mented, and different coloured (ire
works displayed ; an iminenfe group
of the sons and daughters of freedom
danced and sung 011 the very spot
where the excetlWs of misery have for
centuries been endured by the vic
tims of tyrants !
The king has ordered M. M. Luck
ner, Montesquieu, &c. &c. and all
the Generals whatever, to refnfeper
niiflion to M. Philippe Joseph Louis
(the Duke of Orleans) 10 fervein any
of their armies.
M. Britfot, who has done so much
for the Jacobins by vehemently op
posing every minitter which they and
he had not at leafl contributed to ad
vance to public office, has fallen un
der the displeasure of his colleagues.
A motion was made the other night
to erase his name from the books of
the Jacobins, and his friends only e
vaded the by moving the or
der of the day, because it was unwor
thy their importance to spend so much
timttrpon individuals.
L ON DON, July 19.
The Kings of Hungary and Prussia
are said each to have advanced a sum
of money to the French emigrants ;
but on condition, that the application
of it ftial] be superintended by a Pruf
lian and Auftriau cominiflary.
The Prince of Nassau brings them
a letter of credit from the £niprefs
of RulTia, for a considerable futn.
PROVIDENCE (R. I.) Sept. 8
At a meeting of the Corporation of
the College on Thurl'day Jaft, the
Rev. Jonathan Maxcy, Paflor of
the Baptist Church in this town, and
Profeflor of Divinity in the College,
was elected Prefidenc of the College
fro tetnpomr— and the Hon. Benjamin*
Bourn, Esq. was elected a Trustee
<jf the College.
The ele<ftion of the Reverend Mr,
Maxcy (whose reputation as a gentle
man and a/cholar is eftabliihed tohere
ever he is known) to the Presidency
of Rhode-Island College, uiuft be a
pleating to all the friends of
the inftitntion, and cannot but have
a pleasing influence on its future
jwofperity.
HALIFAX, (N. C.) Sept. 12
A correspondent from the weilern
part of the ltate observes, that the
people are generally anxious to take
out licences for their Hills during the
ftafon ; but there is no county in which
there is a person authorised to grant
them, owing to the dilliculty of exe
cuting the former law-- that they are
tolerably fatisfied with the present
modification, as better accommodated
to their rights.
Fxtraß of a letter from, hhllfboroxgh, S-ipt. 2
" The Board of Commilfioners,
consisting of Mr. Franklin, Mr. Ben
ford, and Mr. Saunders, doled their
bufinels on Friday evening, agreeably
to the limitation of the act under
which they fat.
Here follows a ftatemenc 1 procur
ed of their proceedings :
Ihe amount of certificates and due-bills ijTued by the
Board oj (ommijjioners oj Army Accounts at War renton,
cuds, / . 226,171 11 2
Amount of Warrenton certificates arid due-bills ten
dered to the Board oj iommiffioners at Hill/borough Jar
examination, ucre,
/ . 76.504 2 certificates.
8.194 1 4 due-bilii.
Amount presented, £.84,698 12 6
Of tukich ivcrsrt-ijjuedy 18, coo 10 certificates.
4,137 15 8 due-bills.
Total re-ijfued, 1 6
Amount ijju:d by the above Board Jor unliquidate/
claims, / . 20,372 10 11 certificate
C - c - . J < " '
Total £. 27 ; 163 7 10
dma. War ronton 1 cijfv.tii 22 >138 1 6
Total amount /"• 49»3 01 9 4
Philadelphia, Sept. 22.
ABSTRACT 0/ EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
T he French papers mention fre
quent desertions from the Autlrian
army.—They fay further, that a great
mutiny hps broken out among the
soldiery of that army; and that it
requires one half to keep the otherj
in fubjeiftion. A report at Vienna
dates, that the Autlrian Minilter at
Constantinople had been arretted.—
A grant of the liberty of the press,
under very moderate retlri<ftions has
been made at Stockholm, the capital:
of Sweden—the abettors of the King's
atlaUination it is thought will be par
doned. The States of Holland have
determined not to take, openly, an
acftivepart in thedifpuies with France
—but the withes of the Stadtholderian
party are in favor of the Pruliian
arms.—The Dutch patriots are much
caressed by the Prince of late, being
appointed by him to places of emolu
ment. A camp is now formed at
Soitlons in France. The manifeftoof
the Duke of Brunfwick does not ap
pear to have produced the etFeifl wifli
ed for by every friend to the liber
ties of France, a cordial union among
all parties for the common defence
of the country —on the contrary it ap
pears that they are as eager in revil
ing and calumniating each other, as
if they had no common enemy —It is
however expetfled that order will arise
out of confution ; one account fays
that the Jacobin club can reckon only
45 or 46 members of the National
Aflembiy on whom they can depend.
A confirmed majority on either tide
will prpbably produce a concert of
measures, which appears at present to
be much wanted.
The King of Prussia has published
a long manifelto, Hating the reasons
which have induced hiin to take up
arn>3 against France—these reasons
are fubflatitially the fame with those
contained in the manifelto ot the
Duke of Brunfwick—it is however
couched in more elegant and explicit
terms, than the latter ; or else that
of the Duke has not had jiillice done
it in the tranilation.—Theanniverfa
ry of ihe French Revolution has been
celebrated with great eclat in Ire
land and Scotland —among thenume
rous patriotic toasts given 011 this oc
caftpn, the name of Washington,
the father of his country and the
triond of mankind, is brought for
ward with inoft distinguished honor
and refpedt.—Blanchard, ihe cele
brated aeronaut, lately performed an
serial tour froni the free and imperi
al town of Lubeck, in company with
a young lady, for the purpose of dis
playing the National Flag of France
in the upper regions—compleat suc
cess crowned the enterprize—This
131
.facft was ann'oumied to the National
AHcmbly.
it has been reported that a general
aiftion h?d taken plate between ihe
A ufti iati anil ft ench armies, previous
to the failing of ihe Ohio from Brif
tol, and thai the latter were victori
ous.
A vefTel from arrived here,
brings accounts that the Spaniards
were arming in all their pons.
It has been proposed in the Jacobin Club, that
a Diclaturate of 21, should fupercede both King
and Aliembly,chufe nunifters, appoint generals,
and conduct tne war..
It is determined, that the slates of Holland
(hall not an active part in the atfairs of
TVante.—A iubferrpt-ion i* open in Llngland for
the succour of the people of Poland.
The King notified the Afleuibjy that the
Elector of Cologne, and the Duke of Wirtern
berg, were preparing hostilities against France.
—The important queition respeCting the DE
POSING of the KING, was to be agitated on
the 9th of August.
The fourth anniversary of French Freedom
was celebrated at Paris with great solemnity
and magnificence, and without any unfortunate
accident happening throughout the day. The
procelLon to the Champ de Confederation was
very regular and extremely grand. The King
arrived on the ground about noon. He was at
tended by the Ex-Miniiters and a large body of
National Guards, and was received with accla-
I mations the people. The following oath
was then read aloud, the King, the National
All'embly, the Deputies of the Departments,
and all the Minilters, Officers, &c. {landing un
covered, with their hands raised to Heaven :
•* we swear to be faithful to the Nation, the
Law, and the King—to maintain with all our
power the Conllitution decreed by the National
Affemnly and accepted by the King; to protect
the individual and preserve his property accord
ing to i.iv, : m let that there be a free circula
tion of grain throughout the kingdom; to en
force, with all our power, the collection of the
public revenues, and to remain united to every
Frenchman by the bands of brotherly love."
6,790 16 11 dut-HUs
The King, the Legislature, and the people,
then pronounced aloud, u I swear it." The
acclamations which followed were long and re
iterated.
The Ruffians, in consequence of the warm re
ception they met with from the Poles atZallaw,
on the 17th June, have made no further progress
into the kingdom on that quarter. Had l'ome
of.the Polish general officers done their duty ef
fe<stuaily, the advantages over the Ruliiwis
would lsave been greater. The King has there
fore ordered, that Prince Michael Lubomirlki,
and General Czariki, who each commanded a
brigade, lhould be tried by a court martial.
From the motions of the Ruffians, Warsaw,
the capital of Poland, seems to be their object.
The l£ing therefore, in consequence of the dan
ger which threatens that place, instead of join
ing as was his intention, the army of the Prince
Poniitowlki, his nephew, in Yolhynia, is now
anxious only for that in Lithuania. He has in
cohfequence ovdeied a csnip to be formed be-
Vistula, near Warlaw, to cover that
1 city.—The English papers fay, the King of the
French has four chances to run ; he will either
be carried off by the Jacobins to Bourdeaux, by
' the Feuillants to Lyons, by Luckner orFayette
to either army, or by the HuJans to the German
dominions,—Under the fiifl stone of the Pillar
of Liberty to be erected 011 the ruins of the Baf
tile, a box was 1 placed containing the declara
tion of the Rights of Man—the King's picture,
and that of the lirft President of the constituent
urembly—and of the members of the conftitut
|ed powers, some bell-metal money, and some
laffignats.—By the latest accounts the Emperor
and Empress of Germany were arrived at
! Frankfort preparatory to the
I which was to take place the 14th July.
Acoounfs from India to the 22d March, fay,
that General Meadows had entirely -recovered
of his wounds.—Lieutenant George Douglas, of
the 75th regiment in India, was calhiered for
killing Lieutenant James Burch in a duel.—
Twerity-tive Priests, the Englilh papers lay,
have been hung by the populace in France.
The Glafs-W'orks erected a few
yeais lince at Watervlier, well of Al
bany, in the state of New-Yoik, hav
ing been repaired,are now furnifhed
wiih materials for carrying 011 the
bufinei's in its utmolt extent. The
window-glass there manufactured, is
said to be equal to Briiiol.
The ingenious John Churchman
lias failed from Baltimore for London.
Upon a late occasion it was found
that the Federal interest in the state
of Rhode-lfland, was in a ratio of 500
to one, compared with the Anti-Fede
ral— One ps the federal candidates
for reprefentntive in Congress, of
that (late, having had fifteen hundred
votes where his competitor had but
thi'ee ! Mr. Bourn, the other candi-
a member ofthe present federal
house of representatives, it is said,
had no competitor whatever.
It is the custom in fonie of the
Southern States for the cariditates for
appointments publicly to folicic the
fuffrages of the elet'iors. A correl
pondent has observed with pleasure,
that in the inltances which have fal
len under his cognizance, there does
not appear to be a dereliction of any
principles on the part of the candi
dates, in thole addiefles, which are
eilential to the support of a free firm
efficient government ; or of thol'c
measures which Congress haveadopt
ed, in carrying the constitution of
the United States into effect.-"-This
is not only honorary to the judgment
of the candidates,but highly so to the
good fen re of the people.
Those w!io lay that an excise does
not dtmin'ijh the confuuiptioii of fpi
-1 ituous. liquors, may as well affirm
thai the lels money tlieic is to pur
chase, the greater the quantity that
will be bought. But i iie number of
Hills has encreafed— this is owing to
various causes ; the number of peo
ple has encreafed—the impoitation
and confequem consumption offoreign
Ipints has Icllened—the manufacture
of gin and other spirits in the coun
try, owing to the encouragement held
out in the excise law, is become an
objetft of great attention—and there
is reason to luppofe, that in conl'e
quence of thi< encouragement, the qua
lity of the liquors diltilled in the
United States, will continually im
prove, till iu a fliort time the exports
of spirits, already considerable, will
become a source of immenl/: profit to
the country.
" It gives us great pleasure (fays a Boflon
paper) to tind that the patriotic Jcjfc'fon has
become the objedt of censure, as it will have a
happy tendency to open the eyes of the people,
to iee the itiides of certain men in power, who
are wiftiing to turn every ltaunch republican
out of office, who has discerning to ken their
arbitrary meafiires, and honesty fufficient to
reveal them."
From fevcral symptoms it appears that the
old republican spirit of America is returning in
full force upon thoje parts* of the United States
where it had been rather obfeured for some time
past by the arts of ariftocratical sophistry. How
the u Gazette of the United States" will be af
fected by this change, a short time will deter
mine. Some think the Printer will be served
much in the fame manner as the fox served his
and vermin—he is said to have funk him
felf gradually into a pool of water, with a
wisp of Itraw in his role, the vermin all the
while crawling up as the fox immersed his car
case, till at length Revnard gave them the
dodge, and left them to fhift for themselves !
A'at, Gaz.
* This it is Jupfofed refers to thefourcajlcrnJlatcs.
—It is truly laughable to talk about the returning
oj repub/icanijm upon those invaiiably republican Jlates.
— Republican principles peopled the once howling wil
dernejs oj that part oj America—Republican Joundati
on j in the fjlabhjhfnevt of free schools, accejjiole
to all on termj of peileti equality ; in the wije p/ovi
/ion Jor the clergy ; in making the highejl pojls in the
government attainable by vv tue and abiliiies whatever
its Jituatiunj as has been, and is injlanccd in a thoujand
particulars in the jrce, independent and equal re
presentation oj the people—and in many other things
which might be mentioned, arcJvfftcient to evince that
at no period in the hi/lory oj thoje Jlatcs fmcc the jiijt
Jcttlcment oj the country, has the jacred fire of republic
canifm ceajtd to blaze with its nativeJplendor and dig
nity„—But it happens that the people oj those jlates are
warm Jupportcrs of our federal it-publican govern
ment — hence they have been mereHefslyjligmat\zed by
the junto—A junto that will never admit that a govern.
ment,oi its adminiflration can begood, or republican,
which they have not the jupreme di red ion oj.
A gentleman from theJ'outhward, who lately made a
tour through the caflem Jlates, being ajked if he Jaw a
ny republicans there ? replied that he had rotjeen any
other dejcription oj people- he added, they are all good
f {publicans, good friends'to government; univcrJaL
peace and tranquility prevail among them, and every
man appears to be happy in minding his own bufnej.
Other accounts fully corroborate the above—cn i>fg
njcant remndrt of the in furgent Jpirit maypoffibl) ex
ijt m a particular town ; but the ebullitions oj
rit in certain papers devoted to the worjl of causes, are
a j nothing when opposed to the generalfcfe of the peo
pie.
Died in Charleston, S. C. Mordecai Gist,
Esq. Brigadier-General in the Army of the
United States.
In England, Lieutenant General JohM
Blrgoyne.
Lord North, Earl of Guildford, Brc.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Birmingham Packet, Simmons, Bristol
Rifmg Sun,
Angus,
Fame,
Fraiier,
Camilla,
Snow Experiment,
Williams,
Frafer,
Joseph,
Brig Martha,
Prance,
Hoyt,
Little Sarah,
Charleston,
Sch'r. Wevmouth,
Fly', '
Dolphin,
Earle,
Garman,
Stevens,
Johnson,
Leavit,
Baflett,
Garden,
Tryal,
Sloop Ann,
Newp'orge, Ellis, Portsmouth (N. H.)
The Britilh Packet for August, arrived at
New-York on Tuesday last, 3 o'clock, P. M.
tO** Price of Stocks as in our lafl.
Qj' Catullus is receflaiily postponed till
our next.
St. Sebastians
Rotterdam
Dublin
St. Kitts
Londondeiry
Amsterdam
Newport
Charleston
N.York
Charleston
St. John (N." 8.)
Boston
Nantucket'Thefollowing Sonnets appear as originals in the
Fayetteville Gazette.. The Muje t infweetejl notej,
attunes her lays to the finejl chords of native ana
fcntimint.
I-lOURS Ob' SORROW
Jn t'aec Sonnets —By a Lady.
SONNET I.
DESPAI 11.
ADIEU those fancy'd visionary joys,
When fortune fmil'J, and every bliss was
mine;
Alas! how chang'd the scene ! The flatt'ring voice
Of friends, salutes no snore with founds divine,
And thou, sweet hope~-but cruel nymph adieu,
Who once delufn ehad my heart brtray'd ;
Those pleasing trails which happier fancy drew,
By thy neglect eras'd, capricious maid.
I trace the step that thou hadft trod before,
Those (hades where once wiih thee I us'd to
stray ;
But now, alas ! thy taper guides no more,
Nor leads as once my sorrow darken'd day.
A!) ! then I quit thy treacherous form, tho' fair,
And, fad alternative ! I meet Despair !
SONNET 11.
THE INVOCATION
VTO loveliest fugitive again I woo,
IN \nd welcome to my heart thy Toothing lay
Thy devious step its wonted path renew,
And chear the lonely wanderer in her way
Why leave me thus, in fruitlefs sighs to momn ?
Why let thv vot'rv thus late vigils keep ?
Why when I languifti wilt thou not return ?
Come, gentle Hope, nor leave me e'er to weep.
Rife, generous, like the matin fun arise—
Regard my bark, in distant ocean toft,
To the rough Corsair a resistless prize—
Be thou my pilot, or the vettet's loft.
With thee though angry clouds the skies deform,
We'll ride at anchor fafe from every ftorni.
SONNET in
PRAYER TO PATIENCE.
WHILE in the fable dress of grief arrav'd,
With heart-felt sighs, I ruin's trophv form
Yet keep—Oh ! keep me, gentle, meek ey'd maid
Superior to the black impending storm,
Though mark'd alone for every woe severe—•
Almighty fate! thy fovcreign will he done ;
But teach me due fubmiflion while I heai,
Those ills I strive, but vainly strive to shun.
Divert the mind from every wild furpri/e—
Let si ber and difpaflion'd reason reign,
Or Fancy, with her magic forms arise,
To moderate and calm the f< nfe of pain.
But chief, O Goddess ! be mv humble prayer,
1 he weight of future sorrows to prevent ;
Throw o'er those poignant pangs that bring de
* fpair,
That fav'rite dress, thy mantle of content.
The SUBSCRIBERS to the
Universal Tontine
Are informed, that a general meeiing is to i-e heir!
at the State-House in this city, on Saturday the
day of November next, at 10 o'clork, A. M
agreeably to the sixth article of their alTociaiion.
By order of the Agents,
di. i j i HAZARD, Sec*'v.
Philadelphia, Sept. , 5t , 7gz _ (ep<3N)
To be publijhed by Subscription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCEED!NGS OF THE
Old C'Oni^reJ'd,
From September 1774, to March 1789
An authentic and original cnllcfHnn of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c.
written during the late war;
from the'
P SECRET JOURNALS.
{For particulars, f le Prepofuli at Urge.)
Suit Coiptions are received .k
Bookfellerv; and by the EdL > "* P " nC,p
JOHN CAREY, No. ,6, P w -S,r Ut , PhrUdelphn
Stock Brokers Office
No. 45, Great Dock-ltreet, New-York, '
THE Subfcribcr intending .o confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE udS aik ov
STOCKS on COMMISSION', Brg S l„ve .o off,,
i; S /^ rV ' r t C « ,0 ,' mll ' en<ls d °<>>"s.in .he line
,raofaac<l - ith
Orders from Philadelphia, Bolton, o, ar .y other
«d"o "" SU(CS will l,e -"end-
LEONARD BLEECKER.
May 2.
Universal Hymn Book.
vention holding Doting Site
, me ." n , i " nll 'dclphia, May 25, 170,
" 4 ' (eptf.)
The price of this Gazette it Thr*»
anrnvt-Ov ha/Jfe p„ d d! thc tim( c j ful j„^( n^
New-Brunswick
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circumilance.? of a gentleman
who had undertaken 10 difpofcof a propor
tion of the tickets in ihe New-Bj unfwiek Church
Lottery, having, in his opinion, rendered it incon
venient for him further to proceed in the f*le
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
its are unexpectedly returned to rue Rector,
Church-Wardens and Vefh y-men. This lays the
Managers under the neceility of further adjourning,
che drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of October next, that they may ha\ e time to trans
mit these tickets to the parts of the Hate where they
aieapplied for, and leceive the returns As there
are»but few tickets bcfides these remaining on
hand, all persons who are difpoftd 'o promote the
pious objefct of this Lottei y, or 10 take * chani.e
for the prizes thei tin, ;»• e requeiled to4upply them
selves by ihe fir ft of October; atvd the gentlemen
appointed to dispose of them, are desired to return
those to the Managers wlrich then remain unfold,
td.anfwer the applications of some gentlemen in
the neighbour hood, who are poltponed to this re
source for a supply.— And notice is hereby given,
that the tickets not returned to the Managers by
the eighth day of O&ober, will be confidcred as
at the risk of the holders.
N. B. Robe r t Morris, Esq. of New-Brunf
wick, is duly chosen N one ol the Managers of the
said Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law. (rptOi)
City of Washington,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & CRIB'SHJXK.
100 Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cambiidge Common, Maffac hufctts,
-J on the .alternoon of the 1 fifth ult. a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK, with a It ei clasp, containing
a number of valuable papets, fcmong which were
the *ollowing Public Securities, viz.
MalHichufetts State Notes— No. 2,425, dated
December 1, 1782, payable to Thomas Greenwood.
for/. 23 i6j. pricicipal—- No. 22.399, dated Ja
nuary 1, 1785, payable to Nathaniel Partridge, tor
( 10 .101. pi incipal.— No. , dated January
1, 178>, (an army note) payable to Timothy How
ard, tor£ . 8 Bf. Id. principal. — No. , a Not'
(the number, date, and to whom payable, not
known) for £' 3 os. %J. principal.— One Indent
C< r: ificate for Four Dollars, and a Ncw-Hamp
fime Certificate for about £.\ 1 payable to John
Daniel Jenks ; also a number of Notesof H;wd.
•ne of which was for 572 given by Nathan
Kond 10 Samuel IV. Pomcroy (by whom ii was t 11-
dorfed) ddli d lit May, 1792, and payable on the
' tlh Augufl following ; the others were all paya.
»Ie to the Siibfcnhi r. The Securities are checked
it the different oHk-es from whence ihey were
issued, and the Notes of Hand by the different
ligners, they can ihereloie be of no use to anv but
t he owtyr.
The Subfrriber hereby offers a reward of One
Hujdild Diuiaks to any person or person
who has found ilie fame, and will return ihem to
Him, or leave them wnhthe Printer hereof, and
uo queflions will be asked.
SYM PLICIA
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Sjfcm, Ma'fachujctts. Augujl i, 1792. (V nts)
1 EEIRITORY of COLUMBIA
JUNE 28, 1702.
PURSUANT to the last Will jnd Testament o 1
A the late Rev. Altxan der Wi l i.i AMsO ,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurl
lav, (he uthof Oft.ber nexi.at Ceorgktown
on a credit of three years, the purchasers civihe
bond with approved security, 10 bear interest from
the date—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwellin,
plantation of the dreeafed, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatcft part of which
IS rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered,and capable of affordin ? a very confideral.l,
quant,ty of fine meadow ;-Siiuated about 6 miles
Iron, the Kderal City,and the fame dill.,nee from
George.! own ,n a genteel neighbourhood, and a
. ma.kable healthy part of the count ly.
!i^k e n' nP n OVCm u mS , are ', a very two story
■ii .k Dwelling Houle, (with four room, and a
o, entry on a H„„,) a „d the nee, Ifary out
. louses. HtNRYTOWNSEN'D )
/ , n > I ;: STODDf R T, 'f Executors.
(wOITHO'<A!i lOH.VS, \ ,
1 EKKI TORY OF COLUMBIA.
T H .f S " b k'ih" offers for Sale, a Min'-Seat* on
■L .lock CTeek, deemed by -hose who have ex
mined " equal to any ,n the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter of
a mileot ihe nvcr Potowmac, half a mile (,->
som n ,he k pr^ fC -e mTe
'om the Pref.de„t',f qua , c ,,n the city ol Wato
imtT°j 1 walcr ' nav, B a blc lor vefTels of ic
veral hundred bulhels burthen.- The llream t
Md'the'fa 'l m Cir b° Und,to r Urn tOU ' ir ol
(all may be made from 2 S t„ , 0 f cet ,
:'£™£ ryWi > eU ° ath "'Vuch:
Tne purchafrr may be accommodated vvil |, a
t^fc„ 0 C l K djoimnSlteMiil - S - 1
Cep.Sm 14 Jul)
A TO BE SOLD HY THE EDITOR
N ALPHABETICAL LIST of ii*' D,,.;,,
d '"'"-7««ed^
gradual* ti accord,ng to Law BlaTw GnlH ~
And Blanks for <he\™?„ B J " k
neceflary in .ranfafling Bufuu-f, at le T r°'" <y
" Bank nf ,i, : . ,:„„ r d St at p S lheT, " fu, J> «'
dVolume of tin) G a ""ifr t e a '* f ' tke
PLANS
OF THE
Sold by the Booksellers,
R. STODDERT.
132
Treasury Department,
August 10, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propol'jU will
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next inclusive, foi the lupply of all Rations
which may be required for the use of the United
States, from the firft day of January to the thirty
fir It day of December, 1793, both days inclulivc,
dt the places, and within the diftritts hereafter
mentioned, viz.
l. At any placc or places betwixtYoik-Town &
CarliOe,in the ftatc of Pemvfylvan»a,and Pittsburgh,
and at Piitfburgh, York-Town and Cailiflc.
2. At any place or places from Piufburgh to the
mouth ol Big Beaver Cieck, and at the mouth of
Big Beaver Creek.
3« At Any place o«" places from the fa id mouth to
the upper talis ol the said Big Beaver, and at the
uppet fails.
4. At any place or places from the said upper
falls to and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places from the said Mahoning
ove r to the Head Navigation of the River Caya
hoga, and at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any place or places from the fair! Head Na
vigation to the mouth of the said Rivei Cayahoga
and at the laid mouth.
7. At any placc or places betwixt the mouth of
the Big Beaver Creek to the mouth of the River
Muflcingum, and up the f<iid River to the Tufca
rowas, and at the Tufcarowas, and thence over to
the Cayahoga River, and thence down the said
River to its mouth.
8. At anv olace or places betwixt the mouth of
the River Multyngum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, and at the mouth of '.he said River Scioto.
9 At anyplace or places betwixt the mouth of
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami
at the mouth of the Great Miami, and from thence
10 the Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
10. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
the Great Miami, up the said Miami to and at
Pique Town.
1 l. At any place or places from Fort Wafliington
to Foit Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
place or places from Fort Hamilton to Fort St.
Clair, and at Fort St. Ciair.
12. At any place or places from Fort St. Clair to
Fort Jefferfon, and at Foit Jefterfon.
13. At any place or places from Fort jefferfon to
the field ola 6) lon of the 4th of November, 1 t
and at the said field of action.
14. At anv place or places from the said field of
i£tion to the Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
15. At any place or placet from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls of the Miami River, which
empties into Lake Erie, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at its mouth.
16. At any place or places from the month of the
r aid Miami River of Lake Erie to Sandulky Lake,
and at Sandulky Lake.
i 7. At any place or places from v .he fa ; d Sanaufkv
Lake to the mouth of the River Cavahoga.
1 8. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said River Cayahoga 10 Prciquc I lie, and at Prefque
I fie.
ig. At any place orplares fromPrefque Kir to. tlx
stream running into Lake Kric fiom towards the
fadaghque Lake, and thence over to and at the
'aid Jadaghque Lake, and thenCe down the Alleg
hany River 10 Fort franklin.
20. At any place or places I rom Piefqnc iflc loLe
Bcuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or places from I.c Bi us to Fort
Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and trom thence
to Pit (burgh.
22 At liny placc or places from the Rapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of rlu- W,.ba(b River, and Iron
the mouth of the said Wabalh River to the mouth
of the River Ohio.
23. At any dace or placcs on the East fide of the
River Mffiflippi, trom the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the Iliionois Riv> r.
24- At any place or places on the Flaftfideof the
Mifliflippi, between the niouih of the Ohio and
the River Marmot inclusively.
At any place or places from the said River
Marmot to the River Yazous inclusively.
26. At any place or places I torn the mouth of the
laid Wabafh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fort
Knox.
27. At any place or places from Fort Knox, up
the said Wabafli, to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
28. At any place or places from Ouittanon,up the
Hud Wabalh, to the h-ad navigation of a branch
thereof ca!l< d Little River, and at the said head
navgation of Little River.
29. Ai anv place or places from the said head na
vigation of Little River over to the Miami Village,
3°- At anv place or pbces from the mouth ot the
R'ver Ti nrffee to Ocochappo 01 Bear Cicek, on
tnefjid River, inclofivelv.
31. At any place or places from the mouth of the
lover Cumberland to XalhviHe, on the said Rive,
<"H at Nashville. '
And at any place or places within thirty miles
ot laid Naflivillc to the Southwaiti, Wtftw'ard or
Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any nlaees, or
within other diftri&s, not Ipecified in these pro
pyls, the price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the contratfoi.
The rations to be supplied are to confjl of the
following articles, viz.
One pound ot bicad or flour,
One pound of beef, or | ol a pound ol poi k,
Hall ajillot rum, brandy or whilky
One quart ol fall, \
Two quarts of vinegar, f
Two pounds of soap, P fr 10Q ral ions.
One pound of candles, )
The rations are io be lurnilhed in luch quanti.
'es as that then fhalj at all t.m< *, during t|,e laid
erin, be lufficient for the eonfumption of the
jtoops at each of the laid polls, | or the fpaee of at
leall three months in advance, in good and whole
lome provtlums, it the lame (ball be tequired.
It is to be underflood in each cafc. that all LnfirJ
ultamed bv the depredations ot the enemv. or by
means of the tioops of the United States, 'ihaU he
paid lor at the prices of the atticles captured or de-
Itroyed, on the depositions of two 01 ino-e credita
ble charters, and the cotificr.tr of a com million
cd officer, alec naming the cireumlWts ol the
'"Is, and the amount of the articles loi which com
ucnlauon is claimed.
Ihe coiiirsft for ihe a hove fupplics will be made
c.. t r or - ■£ year, or tor luo vcais, at may appear
ASffi-Sfjr?' ~_
Treafur rsep^^
VfOTICE »h„ 4bv W'
i\l be rcccivcd at il* ,h'c
the rreafury, until the ,3,1, day of Oft ?"> ot
inclufivt, tor the f„|>plv ot all , btl «»i
b . e 'rq««ed for ,he use of .h, UnCdY"'"' 1 '
' he fi '" daV ° f > nu "V «°the" bm r fe"° ra
December , 793, both d,y s incMvV't "' V of
l«e Sta.e ct Maffachulm,. an rt .h'e
Po'i", in the Slate rtf New-Yoi k Wtft -
The r«ions to kefunnlitd .; r »
following articiei. vi 7. ' 4o "^ »f ill.-
One pound of brtad or fl ()Ur ,
One pound <>f l.cct, or 4a j r
Half j ji|l of rum, brandy or whuty ° P ° ,k '
One quart of fait, A •'
Two quarts of vinegar, f
Two pounds of toao, fP« >°o rations.
One pound of candies, )
The proposals rhav be made f or boil, ( t
above. mentioned Posts nr f.r a t b J° l " of »fie
field and Wcll-P,™ ' orrtpa ' aid y' fo'Spiiag.
Treasury Department,
. N°J ICE is i-w
me United Slates viv. "01
F °y^ H IN ' FANTRYAVDART:^ERV
afiofTr 18 ' ,6 ° Sh "' s
IfioS vT 7958
HfifiX u' , ~ 4t>oß Blankcu
etooa, oolcn Overalls 4608 Siocks
9..6 Linen Overall, 4608 Stock Clasps
18376 Pair of Shoes 460S Pa.rof Buckle,
foil the CAVALRY.
3<j° CjVs , 20 Pdi,. u ( Stocking
a&o Coats , 44 0 Sim,,
3bo Veils 2 60 Blanket,
360 Pair of Leather 360 Slocks
(Breeches 360 S <.rkClal> 5
720 Pair of Boots laoo Rifle- S i rts. ,„b;
360 PairofSpuis ( injde of Ruflia Siicchdj.
The above Clothing to be delivered ei-ii r m
New-Yo,k, Philadelphia or Baltimoic, ai tkop.
11011 of the contractor or con.iaflois, uu or b ] MC
tile 15'h day of June, 1703.
The piopolais may coinprife the whole of the
before-mentioned Clothing, or any ooe or more
<■1 ihecomponenr articles; lube furniflied a mi.
hlyio patterns or specimens, which wi|ibcitwii
at the \\ ar Office. Gond fecuriiy will berequii.
Ed for the ounfHial and faiihtul performance of
the contract. The payment will be on the drlivt.
rv ot Ihe Clothing, or, if necelTnv, lucb reafnin.
ble advances will be made a the Secretary of the
Trealury shall deem expedient.
War Department,
AV'cust 6, 1792.
IX FORMATION is hereby given to ah ihe
Military Invalids of the United Statu, that
the sums to which they are i 1 • titled for fix months
of their annual petition, from rhe 4*l h day of Match
179 ■, and which will bccome ciue on the,sthday
oi September 1792, will be paid on the laid day
by the Com mi Hi one rs of the Loans within the
States refpedivelv, under the uluul regulations,viz.
Every application foi* payment mull be accon
panied by the following vouchers.
:ft. The certificate given by the ftate,fpecify : ng
that the person pollVfling the fame is in fact an in
valid, and afcei taining the sum to which as iuchbe
ij» annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
A. B. came before me, one of the Jujikts of the
county of in the flute of and made oath tkJ
he is the fame A. B. to whom the original certifiutc
in his pojjcffion Yuas given, of which theJfftiowinr u
a copy (the certificate given by the flute to be rttrfiJ]
That he served (regiment, corps or vefldj
the time he was disabled, and thiJ he rovj refdes i"
the and county oj and has lefad
there for the /*/► years, previous to which tl re
fid/d in
In cafe an invalid should apply foi payment by
an attorney, the laid attorney, befidcs the ccmu
catc before recited, muil produce a fpc»
cial Utter ol attorney agreeably to the following
loiii) :
I. A. B. of county of u \
! hereby conjlitute and appoint C. D. of myhu'jm
I attorney, to receive in my behalf of m )' p ir J' olt
fur fx months, as an invalid of the United Mates,
fiotn the fourth' liny of March, one tlwvjui d
hundred and ninety-two. and ending the fjth «*Jf c j
September, one thuujandfeven hundred ana
Signrci and ft-a led
in the prefeuce of
| H'itnejes.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and admin >•' 2l
muff be accompanied with legal evidence 01 ll ' c
relp< £live offices, and also of the time tire H <* 10
dicd, whole peniion they may claim.
By command of the
Picfideul of the United States,
H. KNOX, Stcrct^°J Was '
BtF The Printers >» ' he rcfpetlive . Sli "V'.
requcfteil to pubhfh the above in ilw" " c * •
pcrs, toi the fpact of two month*.
George-Town.
A Number of LOTS in every
may be r'efired in City of ,
will be ottered lor tale by the Cam® I ®'
Monday tht Bth day of Oflobei ncl "- fa*'*
part ol the money to be paid dowu, jnleS ft
ihrce equal annual payments* wll** ) '
on the whole I' r, '\ r^,! " n^GAX T T,Cl"k
J ' tttihcComoiffij!"?:
[ c pl
June 2> 1791.
Ir J>