A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 106, of Vol. 111-j
SECOND CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES,
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city ol Philadtlphia, in the State of Penn
° fylvanta, Monday ihe tweniy-fouuh of Oitober, one
thoofand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT to compensate the Corporation of Trus
tees of the Public Grammar-School and Aca
demy of Wilmington in the State of Delaware,
for the occupation of, and damages done to
the said School, during the late war.
T)E it eaadted by the Senate and House of Representatives
Jj of the United States of America in Congi ess aflembled,_
Tnat as an indemnification to the corporation of Trullees ot
the public grammar-school and academy of Wilmington in the
State of Delaware, for the use and occupation of the said school,
and the damages done to the fame by the troops of the United
States, during the late war, there be granted to the said cor
poration of Trustees, a reasonable compensation, payableout
of any unappropriated money in the Treafurv of the United
States, which compensation fliall be ascertained by the account
ing officers of the Treafurv.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House as Representatives.
?OHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejident of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
APPROVED APRIL THE THIRTEENTH, 1792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
AN ACT for apportioning Representatives a
inong the several States, according to the fir It
enumeration.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America, in Congress afTembled,
That from and after the third day of March one thousand
(even hundred and ninety-three, the House of Representatives
jfiall be composed of members elected agreeably to a ratio ot
one member for every thirty-three thoufaml persons 111 each
State, computed according to the rule prescribed by the Con
stitution ; that is to fay : Within the State of New-Hamplhire,
four : within the State of MafTachufetts, fourteen ; within the
State of Vermont, two ; within the State of Rliode-Ifland,
two ; within the State of Connecticut, seven; within tne State
of New-York, ten ; within the State of New-Jerley, five;
within the State of Pennsylvania, thirteen ; within the State
of Delaware, one ; within the State of Maryland, eight; with
in tie State of Virginia, nineteen ; within the State ot Ken
tucky, two ; within the State of North-Carolina, ten ; with
in the State of South-Carolina, fix; anil within the State ol
Georgia, two members.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Houf' oj Rcp r efcntativiS.
]OHN ADAMS. Vice-President oj the United Staffs,
and President oj the Senate.
API-ROVED APRIL THE FOURTEENTH,
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the L rated States.
AN ACT authorizing the grant and conveyance
ot certain Lands to the Ohio Company ot Alio-
ciates.
BE it enacted by tie Senate and Hr-ufe of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congrefsi afiembled.
That a certain contract expreiled in an incfentuie execute
>n tlie twenty-seventh day of October, in the year one tiou
fand (even hundred and eighty-seven, between the then oaic
oftrea'iir for the United States of America, of the one part,
and Manaflfeh Cutler, and Winthrop Sargent, as agents tor the
directors of the Ohio Company of AlTociate's, of the other part,
so far as the fame respeCts the following described tia o
land ; that is to fay : Beginning at a station where the we
tern boundary line of the seventh range of townihips, lai ou
by the authority of the United States in Congress allembled,
interle&s the river Ohio; thence extending along that river
south-westerly to a where the western boundary line the
fifteenth range of townihips, when laid out agreeably to tie
land ordinance, palfed the twentieth day of May, one t cu
fand seven hundred and eighty-five, would touch the fai 11-
f ver ; thence running northerly on the said western bound.> o
the i'aid fifteenth range of townihips, 'till a line drawn ue
cast to the western boundary line of the said seventh range o
townihips, will comprehend, with the other lines of this tra t,
seven hundred and fifty thousand acres of land, beiides the ie
veral lots and parcels of land in the said contract reserved or
appropriated to particular purposes ; thence running ealt to
the western boundary line of the said seventh range of town
ihips, and thence along the said line to the place of beginning,
be and the fame is hereby confirmed : And that the President
ef the United States be and he hereby'is authorized and em
powered to ilfue letter? patent in the name and un,der the leal
of the United States, thereby granting and conveying to Ru
fm Putuam, Manaifeh Cutler, Robert Oliver, and Griflin
Green, and to their heirs and assigns, in fee limplc, the faidt e
scribed tract of land, with the reservations in the said inden
ture exprelled, in trust for the persons composing the said Oluo
company of alfociatei, according to their several rights and in
ttereflh, and for their heirs and as tenants in common.
And be it further enacted, That the President be and he
hereby is farther authorized and by letters patent
Wednesday, May 2, 1792.
;<f irefaiil, to grant and convey to the said Rufus Putnam,
Manafleh Cutler, Robert Oliver, and Griffin Green, and to
their heirs and afligns, in trust, for the uses above expressed,
one other tract of two hundred and fourteen thousand, two
.hundred and eighty-five acres of land. Provided, That the
(aid Rufus Putnam, Manalfeh Cutler, Robert Oliver and Grif
fin Green, or either of them, (hall deliver to the Secretary of
the Treasury within fix months, warrant's which issued for ar
my bounty-rights lufficient for that purpose, according to the
provision of a resolve of Congress of the twenty-third day of
July, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven.
And be it further enacted, That the President be, and he
hereby is further authorized and empowered by letters-patent
as aferefaid, to grant and convey to the said Rufus Putnam,
ManaiTeh Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin Green, and to
their heirs and afligns, in fee simple, in trust for the uses a
bove expressed, a farther quantity of one hundred thousand
acres of land. Provided always nevertheless, That the said
grant ofone hundred thousand acres fhallbe made on the expre's
condition of becoming void, for such part thereof, as the said
company shall not have, within five years from the pafling of
this ast, conveyed in fee simple, as a bounty and tree ot ex
pense, in r.raots of one hundred acres, to each male person,
not less than eighteen years of age, being an actual settler at
the time of such conveyance.
And be it further drafted, Tliat the said quantities o, two
hundred and fourteen thouland, two hundred and eighty-five
acres, and of one hundred thousand acres, (hall be located with
in the limits of the tract ofone million, five hundred thousand
acres of land, described in the indenture aforefaid, andl. ad
joining to the tract of land described in the firft feftion of this
ast, and in such form as the President in the letters-patent,
ihall prescribe for that purpose.
JONATHAN TRUMBULI., Speaker
of the House of Ripr/fcJitat'ves.
IOHN ADAMS, Vizc-r reft dent of the United States,
and President oj the Senate.
APPROVED, APRIL THE TWE N T Y-F IKS I , 1792.
CLORGK WASHINGTON,
President oj the United States.
PARIS, January 15.
Of the plot for the assassination of the King,
all the authentic intelligence we art yet in pos
session of, amounts to this "At a secret fitting
of the Jacobine club in the Rue Saint Honore,
Monf. Carva, a great leader of that ami
the conductor of a republican or rather regicide
oaper, formally proposed* to the meeting to de
throne and set aside the whole family of the
Bourbons, and to fettle the crown upon the Duke
of York—this, said Monf. Carva, is abfolntely ne
cefl'ary for us if we are determined to be free ;
with a new dynaily we may stipulate for the
principles which unite us, and the firft public
functionary mult defend them with force and
with sincerity if he will defend the throne which
is reared upon their base. These are the only
means to regenerate the face of the empire, eve
ry other measure is contrary to theTyftetn of li
berty ; which governs all our politics."
L O N DON, February 24.
It is hoped that the failure of one of our firfi
houses in the city for near Boo,oocl. will flop the
career of speculation iti articles necefl'ary tor the
lupport of foine of our principal manufactures,
whereby the community at large have been great
ly injured : as the bulk ofthefe monopolies will
now be thrown in the market, the prices will na
turally decline, and it is to be wilhed by every
friend to the commercial and manufacturing m
terells of this country, that the dangerous spirit
of enormous speculations and monopolies may
lubfide.
A Minister who will come forward, as Mr.
Pitt did, and Hate, that in conl'equence of the
revenue exceediug the expenditure he was ena
bled to repeal certain taxes which affected the
r,oor, speaks a piain unfophilticated language,
which is easily understood, and easily felt.
Sunday died Sir Richard Bickerton, Bart. Rear
Admiral of the White, Commander in Chief of
Plymouth, and member for Rochester.
Trial bv Jury is now eftablilhed in Pans, and
will be so in the reft of the kingdom, as fact as
the necelfcry arrangements can be made.
The Emperor has iifued a most nngular order
with refpedi to the press. All papers which, like
the Court Gazettes, give a mere hiftoncal narra
tive of the events iq, France, are allowed. Poli
tical and legal disquisitions on the fubjeca of the
French Revolution are also permitted, provided
they consist oj three volumes, and ke not written m the
■vulpar tongue. Ponder ye manufacturers of folios
and quartos, on the important truth that the
number of your volumes is held to be the belt se
curity against their beingread.
In the Statistical account of a parifli in Shet
land, there lives one John Williamfon, who
from his variety of talents goes by the name of
7ohnny Notions, he being ft tailor, a joiner, a clock
and watch mender, a blacksmith ana physician.
421
[Whole No. 314.]
His success in inoculation is most remarkable —
formerly the fmal)-pox carried off a fifth part ot
the inhabitants ; now hardly any fuffer by the
disorder. Unafiifted by education, mid unfet
tered by the rules of art, he has inoculated manv
ihoufands, without losing a single patient. In
place of procuring frefh matter, as is the com
mon practice, he keeps it for years dried in ,
spoke, and put under ground, which from expe
rience he finds leflens its virulence, and renders
it milder to the patient. He uses 110 lancet, but
gently raises the Ikin with a knife of his own
making, so that no blood follows. A bit of cab
bage leaf is nfed as a plaster to heal the wound.
: There is no instance of it ever miTgiving, nor is
there any previous preparation used.
The Weft-India merchants have voted a pre
sent of jool. to Captain Bligh, of his Mnjefty's
navy, as a compliment for services 1 endered while
06 the Weft-India station.
They have also voted a present of a handsome
sword, value 2001. to Captain Samuel Hood, of
the navy, for favirfg, at the hazard of his own
life, while on the Weft-India liation, the lives
of three seamen, who were floating at the mercy
of the waves, on a raft of timber. The captain
himlelf left his (hip in a very high sea attended
only by his Coxswain, after an ineffectual remon
strance with the whole crew (none of whom dar
ed venture) and with the greatest danger and
difficulty picked the poor fellows up, and brought
thetn on board.
SWEDISH DIET, Geste, Jan. 31.
On the 27th inft. the Diet of the kingdom was
opened by his Majelty in per foil. The lour or
ders were united in the grand Hall.—By the
speech which his Majesty pronounced, he traced,
in the rapid and flowery style so peculiarly his
own, the weak and diftraiTted (late in which he
found the kingdom on his comingtothe throne;
the prompt and complete success with which'he
regenerated it ; the happinefswhich the Swedes
enj >yed under his reign for many years ; the in
quietude, thedivifions, the spirit of party, which
at length troubled its welfare ; the meafiifes that
he took to repair the evil ; the glorious end of
the foreign war, connected with tliefe domestic
troubles ; the diftrefling lituatioti of the financ
es, which was the refulc of all this ; and, in fine,
for here came forth the objedt, the neceflity that:
there was for rettoring them, and for maintain
ing the credit of the (tate. This was, in truth,
the motive and end of the convocation ; whether
it will precisely conclude as he wilhed, time mult
determine.
Already foine indications of hoflility to the
King have appeared. In spite of the injun<ftion
to all the civil and military officers, the firTt or
der did not fail to be very numerous. There
were 118 members of the firfl order, no of the
I'econd, 187 of the third, or of plain gentlemen.
There were warm debates on the choice of a
Secretary of* the Diet ; the plurality was in fa
vor of the Sieur de Sogerftrom. The Sieur Wal
lin, a Burgo-mafler of Stockholm, was elecled
orator or president of the order of bourgeois.
But the point on which they have manifelted a
spirit of opposition, is in eflablifhing a revision
of accounts, which was not done according to
the recommendation of the monarch. His ma
jelly wrote in a rone very energetic on the fub
jetft, but they were equally firm, and would not
accept of the plan offered for this important ob-
I jets.
PHILADELPHIA.
Many individuals in every part of the Unitect
States, are interested in the following—being a
fe<Ttion of an adt of the Legislature of Virginia,
palled the 27th of December, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety, intitled, " An ast to amend
the a<ft, intitled, An a<ft to remedy abuses in the
manner of felling lands for the payment of pub-
lie taxes."
And be it further evaded. That in cafe the tax
on any trart of land within this Commonwealth
dial) not be paid for the space of three years, the
right to such lands ftiall be loit, forfeited and
veiled in the Commonwealth, and it Ihall be law
ful for any person to acquire a title to any land
so forfeited, in the manner prescribed for ac
quiring titles to wade a«d unappropriated land*
within this Commonwealth, on the Eallern wa
ters. by an art, intitled " An adl to dispose of
the waste and unappropriated lands in the Com
monwealth of Virginia, on the Eallern waters."PITTSBURGH, April 21.
Saturday last failed from this place, with a de
tachment of men to protect the fertlement at
Galliopolis, Lieutenant Demler.of the 2d United
States regiment*
Thursday last arrived here from Fort Frank
lin, Lieut. Jeffers of the lit United States regi
ment, with a party of Seneca Indians, to scout
on oar frontiers with the spies & 6 months levies.
We are happy to contradisft, in part, the pa
ragraph under the Pittlburgh head, in our last,
giving an account of the murder of 20 persons
by the Indians, as from well authenticated ac
counts it appears, that only one woman and Mr.
Edgar were killed.
We are enabled to inform our readers from
good authority that Capt. Paul, who is stationed
on the south-west frontier of Walhington county,
Pennsylvania, has eredted a very strong ,block
house on the Ounkard branch of Whelen creek,
a little above Mr. Ryerfon's mills, from whence
he makes almost daily excurfionsover the neigh
bouring grounds ; by his vigilance, and the co
operation of his subaltern officers, who have near
ly completed two other block houses, one on his
left, the other on his right, each at a few miles
distance, it is expedted he will completely thwart
the designs of any small parties of the savages
that may approach that part of our frontier.
Besides those Indians which carried off and
scalped the two boys mentioned in our laft,there
are evident signs of several small parties having
prowled along the south-west frontier of Walh
ington and Ohio counties, particularly on Whe
len, weft of the Pennsylvania boundary.
Friday the 13th inft. arrived here the Western
Experiment, Capt. Nicholfon. She is bound to
New-Orleans, from thence with a cargo to Phi
ladelphia was built about thirty miles up the
Monongahela, burthen about 60 tons, and draws
eight feet water. This is the firft veflel con
ftru&ed on this branch of the Ohio intended to
navigate the ocean.
NEWARK, April 26.
At a Meeting of the Direfiors of the Society jor ejla
blijhing ufeful Manufactures, held at Pawles
Hook, in the jiate oj New-Jersey, on Friday, the
twentieth day of April, 1792.
The committee appointed to examine and re
port to the board, the state of the funds of the
l'ociety, report as follows
That the sum of jo,ooo dollars appropriated
by their board at their meeting in January last
for the purpose of procuring the neceflary arti
cles from Europe, has been remitted, and the
several articles ordered may be expetfted to ar
rive in the months of June and July.
That the sum of 5000 dollars has been appro
priated for the pay of workmen and for other
contingent expences of the society and is nearly
expended. And the said committee further re
port, that they have examined the different per
sons employed in preparing the machinery for
the society, and report that the several branches
are in great forwardnefs, some of which are
ready to be put up as soon as the neceflary
buildings are prepared.
That the sum of 10,000 dollars, which the
board appropriated for procuring workmen and
materials under the direction of the Governor,
has been paid him for that purpose, and that he
lias given alTurances that the society may reft .fa
tisfied in the security as well as the faithful ap
plication of this fund.
That the sum of sixty-three thousand dollars
has been inverted in the deferred stock of the
United States, which stock is entered in the
name of the society in the books of John Coch
ran, Commilfioner of loans in the state of New-
York.
That the residue of the monies received on
the firft payments still remain in the banks
where they were originally deposited.
Ordered that the foregoing report be pub
lished.
A true extrad: from tlie minutes
ELISHA BOUDINOT, Seer. P. T.
We hear that a special meeting of the Direc.
tors is called to meet at Newark on Tuesday
the i jth day of May next, for fixing upon the
permanent feat of the said faflory.
N E W-Y O R K, April 27.
In consequence of the rife of flocks and a check
to failures, our profpe<sts now begin to brighten
up, and by the prevalence of a spirit of mutual
accommodation there can be no doubt of a spee
dy return of confidence and credit, and that bu
siness will re-aflume its natural course on a more
permanent basis.
We learn from Philadelphia, that Robert Mor
ris, Esq. has engaged a person who has had the
principal lead in conducting the canals lately fi
nifhed in England, and who is highly recom
mended for his knowledge in this line. This
gentleman is now on his paflage to America, and
daily expected. After exploring and determin
ingon the immediate operations in Penni'ylvania,
which will employ him two or three weeks, he
is then to come to thiscity for the fame purpose.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, March 9.
The House took into consideration the report oj the
committee of the who/e on the petition of Catharine
Greene
THE report being read—a memorial of Henry
Hill was presented by Mr. Fitzfimons, pray
ing that no law may be pafled in the cafe which
may operate to the injury of the petitioner in
refpetfi to an aflignment made to him of a cer
tain demand against the United States, by one of
the partners of Banks and Co. Mr. F. recapitu
lated the general objections which had been be
fore urged against the indemnification, and con
cluded by amotion in which it was proposed that
the bufineis should be put into a train of legal
investigation.
Mr. Baldwin after some remarks highly favor
able to General Greene's charatfer, observed,
that a legal process in this cafe did not appear to
offer those accommodations which a f'ubjetft of this
kind seemed to call for.
He then entered into a general consideration
of the subject, in the course of which he observ
ed, that certain bold and striking traits diftin
guiflied the conduct of General Greene during
the late war—he acted as a soldier, a politician,
a legislator, a com miliary, a quarter niafter and
a General, in short like a man who was conduct
ing a revolution on the success of which his own
life depended and the liberties of his country,
perhaps of mankind. He then adverted to the
evidence which has been adduced to (hew that
no partnership existed between General Greene
and Banks, and that the engagements he enter
ed into were on a public account. He said the
characters of those who had solemnly teftified 011
this occasion were such as to banifli every trace
of suspicion from his mind. He concluded by
observing that if ever a claim on the justice and
humanity ot a country existed the present was
such a claim.
Mr. Steele said he hoped the report would not
be agreed to. He said the fobjert appeared now
to be involved in more complexity than it at firft
appeared to be attended with.
In all appropriations of money the fubjetft
ought to be well considered ; but what have the
gentlemen who report the refelutions done ?
Inflead of producing that evidence which would
pass in any court of justice, they hare adduced
General Greene's character, virtues, services, &c.
of these he had as jufl an opinion as any one, but
he thought they were not altogether pertinent
to the occasion.
He hoped a further inveftigawon would be
made; and that if the report was not rejected,
the bufincfs would be put in a different train—
various and contradictory statements have taken
place in the courfeof the discussion in 6 weeks—
these things were at least very extraordinary
some things are now admitted which were before
denied. As the advocates of the report have
founded their arguments on the character of
General Greene, he thought it his duty to bring
forward some circumstances, which, though they
do not impeach his character as a soldier and a
brave man—yet they show his want of sincerity
and consistency. He then adverted to the letters
which he wrote, abusing the people south of the
Potowmac, at the very time he was experiencing
their munificence and liberality. These things
he said he mentioned not to injure his reputation,
but to (hew that full credit! ought not to be given
to his subsequent aiTertions and declarations. He
observed that the fnbject had not been so fully in
vestigated, nor had such evidence been adduced
as would juftify an appropriation of the sum of
60,0c0 dollars. He then took noticeof thole do
cuments which appeared to favor the idea that
General Greene was connected with Banks and
Co. thisbufmefs he thought had not been placed
in the most fati»fac r tory point of light—a more
thorough investigation ought to take place, and
in order to this he said the ljufinefs had better
be postponed to the next fefllon.
Mr. Clark was opposed to agreeing to the re
port—he offered several objections ariling from
the obscurity which invelope the tranfacftions.
Mr. Hillhoufe stated sundry reasons why he
Should vote against the report—and then the
House adjourned without deciding the question.
MONDAY, March 26
The bill for establishing a mint was read the
third time—on the question, lhall the bill bass !
422
Mr. Clark said he hoped the bill would be r*.
je<fted—he cenfidered the plan as too extensive
and expensive—that there was no neceflity for jt
—all that is wanted at present is a coinage of
small change ; and for this purpose he had no
idea that it wat necelfary to incur an expenceof
30,000 dollars per annum. He c-ould conceive of
no immediate advantage to result from the efta
blifhmeni but that of encreafing the ministerial
phalanx which he conceived was alrerdy fuffi.
ciently strong.
Mr. Nile 6 spoke against the bill—he saw no
advantage that would result from it, but an ex
pence and loss ; he enlarged 011 the want of po
licy and economy in contemplating a recoinage
of the foreign coins now in circulation.
Mr. Gerry moved that the bill fliould be re
committed for the purpose of refloring a clause
which had been struck out, and that was the
one which provided for the Presidents' Head
being on the coin—he should move for an amend
ment by striking out the words " for the time
being," as he would wish to leave it in the pow.
er of the legislature at a future period to with
hold this mark of public honor from an unwor
thy character should such an one. ever fill the
Chair of the fii ft magillrate—with refpecft to the
present Chief Officer of this government he con
ceived that there could be 110 poflible objection
to doing him this honor, for in that light he con
sidered it ; it was not probable nor perhaps pos
sible that any other charadter that would ever ap
pear on the stage would so completely merit this
mark of diftintftion.
Mr. Sedgwick said he hoped the bill would not
be recommitted merely for the purpofemention
ed. He had objected to the decapitation of the
President by striking his head from the coin, but
he truftedtlie clause would yet be restored with
out the formality of a recommitment.
Mr. Page said he had intended to move for a
recommitment, but not for the purpose hinted at
by the gentleman who made the motion ; his ob
ject would have been to recommit generally he
then stated several objections to the bill, particu
larly the expence contemplated. He added some
remarks in answer to Mr. Gerry's observations.
The motion for recommitting was negatived
by a great majority.
The bill was then patted ayes 52 —noes 22
SATURDAY, April 28-
A mefTage from the Senate, was delivered by
Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying their rejection of
the bill for reducing the rates of portage on
newspapers ; —and their concurrence in the a.
mendment proposed by the House to their amend
ment to the bill railing additional supplies.
A report of a felett committee on the report
of the Secretary of the Treaftiry on the fubjecft
of Marine Hospitals, was read and laid on the
table.
Pursuant to the order of the day, the House
resolved itfelt into a committee of the whole,on
the bill concerning the duties on spirits diltilled
within the United States.
The whole day was spent in debate, after
which, the committee rose and reported ilie bill
with sundry amendments. Adjourned.
MONDAY, April 50.
Reports from the Secretary of the Treasury on
sundry petitions, were read and laid on the table.
In committee of the whole on the bill relative
to the compensations of certain officers em
ployed in the collection of the duties of impolt
and tonnage. Mr. Boudinot in the Chair.
The committee after difcufling the bill rose
and reported it, with amendments —which were
read and agreed to by the House—the bill was
laid on the table.
Mr. Bourne of the committee on enrolled bills
reported the following bills as truly enrolled,
viz. an act providing more efFertually for the na
tional defence by establishing an uniform mili
tia throughout the United States,
An art to provide for calling forth the militia
to cxecute the laws of the union, suppress infiir
rertions and repel invasions—-and an art for
ing a further sum cf money for the protedion of
the frontiers and for other porpofes therein men
tioned. The Speaker then iigned the abovemen
tioned arts.
The amendments reported by the committee
of the whole to the bill concerning the duties on
spirits distilled within the United States, were
taken into confederation by the Houfe —a motion
to agree to the duty of 8 cents on spirits distilled
from articles, the growth of the United States,
occasioned a lengthy debate—S cents were finally
di(agreed to, and 7 cents inferred, the Houie
proceeded through the difcuflion of the whole
of the amendments—fame were adopted as im
ported, others amended and others reje<3ed
whole were again laid on the table.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, May l. ,
On motion of Mr. Williamfon, it was retbtvfd that the -
vcral committees who have not reported, be directed to repc> L
on Thurfay next.
The bill relative to the compensations of certain olmemployed in the co'.'eftlon of the duties of impost and tannage,
was taken into consideration.
Mr. White proposed an additional (eftion to the following
purport :.
That whenever a collector (hall die, the commiifions to
which he would have been entitled, on the duties bonded by
him, and unpaid at the time ofhis decease, ffiall be equally di
vided between the legal representative of liich collector and
his fucceiTor in office.—This being agreed to, the biii was <>i
dered to be engrotl'ed for a third reading.
In committee of the whole on the bill authorizing the remis
sion of certain duties. Mr. Bourne in the chair.
The provilions of this bill are for the remiliion of the duties
on wines loft from the cargo of the ship Brothers, wrecked on
her voyage from New-York to Philadelphia, and certain goods
loft 011 board a ihip wrecked near Plymouth, Malfachuletts.—
The bill was reported without amendmeat—tlie vouchers re
lative to the bulinefs being read; the bill was ordered to be en-
grafted.
Mr. Boudinot moved that the resolution for a joint com
mittee to wait on the Preiident, to request that lie would ap
point a day of public humiliation and prayer, &c. was taken
into conlideration—the House being equally divided on the
question for taking it up, it was determined in the affirmative
by the Speaker.
The question then was for agreeing to the resolution—Mr.
Livermore obje&od to it; he doubted the conltitutionality
and propriety of it.
The question being put, it was carried in the affirmative—
22 to 21 —and a committee of three appointed.
The bill entitled, an ast for the relief of persons imprisoned
for debt, was taken into confideration —Some farther amend
ments were agreed to, and the bill pafled.
The bill concerning fpiritsdiftilled within the United States,
was further difcufled —the debate was renewed—several pro
positions of amendment were offered, some agreed to, others
rejected and the bill ordered to be engrofled for a third read
ing.
A mefTage from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary Otis, inform
ed the House that they have concurred in the bill for altering
the time of the next annual meeting of Congress.
A bill to authorise the remillion of certain duties, was read
the third time and palled.
In committee of the whole, on the bill confirming an award
of certain referees between the United States and certain per
sons, contractors for supplying the army of the United States
with provisions, during the late war—Mr. W. Smith in the
chair.
The committee reported the bill with one amendment,
which was to strike -out the words " award or," in the firft
fe&ion —This amendment was agreed to by the Houle, and
the bill ordered to be engrofled for a third reading.
The report of the feleft committee, to whom the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury on the memorials of the Loan-
Officers of Rhode-Illand and New-Hamplhire was referred,
was taken into consideration by the committee of the whole—
This report was in favor of the memorialists, and contained
several resolutions purfuar.t thereto—Some amendments were
agreed to; the committee then rose and reported progress.
Adjourned.
STOCKBRIDGE, April 17.
The following scheme exhibits the different
number of white males, above and under 16 years
of age—also the different number of free white
Males and Females, in each of the United States,
agreeable to the late enumeration of the inhabi
tants.
s 1
•s s
T3
JS O
i - •
k- — 3
W <U
- «
e *-=
3 —
£
Vermont,
New-Hampftiire,
Maffechufetts,
Maine,
107
12 35
8164
Rhodf-Ifland,
Conuetticut,
New-York,
New-Jersey,
Pennsylvania,
Delaware,
Maryland,
Virginia,
Kentucky,
North-Carolina,
South-Carolina,
Georgia,
220
6120
5578
3835
3840
4576
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
A LAW is the will of the community collected and exprefT
ed hv the representatives. Yet as every law is to be en
lorced, it implies, that the will of some persons is croifed, and
made to bend to the will or law of the whole society. It is
alwayseafy for such persons to cry out tyranny, arbitrary
POWER WE HAVE ESCAPED BRITISH DOMINATION, AND BE
HOLD WE HAVE ONE SPRINGING UP IN THE MIDST OF US THAT
insists on being obeyed. The proper remedy against the
evil tendency of such intemperate appeals to the passions of
the people, is to remind them that the law is their will, that
when the law is reiifted, tney are inftilted and difobeved, that
government is their authority deposited in the hands of their
servants, and that the dominion of the people ex#rcifed by a
government of their free choice, however compared to British
power, and denominated arbitrary by audacious scribblers, is
the most durable, ufeful and complete liberty that can be en
joyed by men.
As the will of some is controuled by every law, it happens
also that the interest and advantage of others is promoted by
it. It is eafv in this cafe, to hold up to the envy of some, and
to the anger of many these advantages, and to accuse the go
vernment of partiality. It would be little to the praise of a j
law to fay, that no person is the better for it, and yet if *ny
person is benefited, the newspapers tell us that all others are
fufforers. This is the cafe of the funding law, and the com
plaints against Congress bear this impreflion. It h 110 bad
compliment to the government to bring against it ac
cusations in this style only. The reproach of a bad govern
ment, and the ordinary complaint against its proceedings is,
the oppreilion of the people by law. Congress is not accused
of opprefling any order of men, for every order of men is thri
ving. and industry in general is promoted by the protection of
the laws of the nation. The charge is, that Congress has
U
o
B
v .
<M
£ .
o "»
W. 1U
o
o
6
tj
(9 S/J
e Ji
u V
O »-
TJ O
3
l/>
.£ o
0 - .
6 eat»
w. W >
0 2\S
S C rt
.a J» a
M.2
a w
£
354
i
3 60
«
s
»- £
*■> -
-3 2
E -S
3 *-»
£
2 S
u _
14
4258
777
7840
2262
834
2 5 02
95 ot.
34'°
H373
i 54 2
5859
12025
3289
6784
6418
1408
5 1 99
1903
75» 8
2146
94'
railed tiia value of the debt by the funding law, and t!ir? is
called partial and unjult. Was there ever fucu a charge !
J he debt was due, and common justice required the payment.
But fuppofethat Congress had struck the certificates dead at
once, by refufing to fund or provide for them. Would such a
meal'ure have been deemed by tiie present race of fault-find
ers jult, impartial, and republican. These very men would
have iuug in a louder note —Congress is bound to proteftthe
rights of property, yet it has violated them. The burden
mould be common, yet the whole loss is thrown upon the few
certificate holders. This unjult:, tyrannical, partial, cruel
oppression eltablilhes Congreis as a despot with an absolute
exjntroul oyer property—not by equal taxes and equal laws,
but by arbitrary decrees, as base, as cruel, as subversive of
order, of confidence, of liberty, as thole which iflue from the
Divan ol Constantinople. What answer could Congress have
made to these just reproaches ! Happily they listened to these
reasons at the time of palling the law, and the world will not
be lo much imposed upon, as to believe that they have paired
an unjust partial law, because they have respected tin; rights of
property and the dictates of common justice. Every friend of
his country will join in the wifli that Congress may never de
serve the praise ot tholfe who now censure it, by conforming
its measures to their deftruc'tivc principles.
Philadelphia, May 2.
Yesterday and the day before the Indian Chiefs and Warriors
of the Six Nations took their departure from this city.
Proposals, we hear, have been made for cash, or the debt to
be redeemed therewith, from 12/"to 12/2, for the whole amount
ot the 936,000 dollars, which Pennsylvania had to fell, in order
to redeem the State debts thereof. This, at this particular
j un&ure, is a proof of the good credit of the public, notwith
standing late embarrajlments.
A gentleman of high reputation declared in his place in Con
gress, in a late debate, that the Bank of the United States, of
which he is a director, had not fuffered and were not likely to
fuller any loss by the late fall in the price of flocks. This is
a very fatisfaftory proof that the Bank is administered on ve
ry fafe and solid principles.
On Saturday last failed for London the fbip William Penny
Capt. Jofiah, in which went the following passengers :
Phineas Bond, Esquire, His Britannic Majesty's Consul for
the states of New-Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Ma
ryland. %
Dr. Segur, Mrs. Segur, Mr. Ebenezer Breed, and four
French Gentlemen and a Lady.
The jewels worn by the Duchess of York, on the Queen of
England's birth night, are estimated at 40,0001. value.
Forty-two new carriages were launched on the above occa
sion.
By the latest accounts it appears that the French emigrants
have taken their departure from Coblentz, and are rendez
vousing at Ettenhehn, in the Biihopric of Stralburgh.
On Saturday last, the 2ift of April instant, the cause of Col
let, versus Collet, was argued in the Circuit Court of the li
nked States, for this diftridt, before the Judges Wilson, Blair,
and Peters. It came before the court on a bill filed on the e
quity fide, and a plea to the jurifdidtion. The bill stated the
complainant to be u a fubjedl of his Britannic Majesty, and
that the respondent was a citizen of Pennsylvania." The plea
averred the complainant to be 16 a. citizen of Pennfylvaria."
This plea, if true, deprived the court of its jurifdi&iou, as the
courts of the United States, have no right to take cognizance
of controversies between the citizens of the same state,unlcfs
in some particular and excepted cases.
In order to prove the point alledged by the respondent, he
offered in evidence a certificate dated the 30th of April, 1790,
granted by the then Mayor of Philadelphia, declaring that the
complainant had, on that day taken before him the oath of
allegiance to the state of Pennsylvania, agreeably to an ast of
assembly, bearing date the 13th March, 1789.
To combat this evidence, the complainant shewed that he
was a native of the Isle of Man, parcel of the dominions of the
Britilh crown, and contended that the naturalization granted
to him by the authority of Pennsylvania, was absolutely null
and void; for that by the Bth feftion of the firft article of the
Constitution of the United States, they have power " to make
uniform laws for the naturalization of foreigners and by
their ast bearing date the 26th of March, I79°> had actually
exercised this authority.
The queflion turned entirely upon the point, whether the
power given by the constitution to the legiilature of the
United States was exclnfive of, or concurrent with, the au
thority of the individual ftatesFor if it was exclusive, then
the individual states had no right to legislate on the fubjeft of
" naturalization,-" and whatever had been done by the state
of Pennsylvania, was absolutely null and void.
It was argued at large by Mr. Randolph, Attorney-General
of the United States, and Mr. Sergeant, in support of the
bill, and Mr. Levy in support of the exception.
Their honors the Judges, after confutation with each other,
declared their opinion, That the power given to the United
States was meant as a guard against the narrow regulations
that might at any future time be adopted by the individual
states, to check the admiflion of aliens, not as a security a
gainst too easy an introduction of them ; that this purpose
might well be effected without inhibiting the right to the indi
vidual states; that of course the naturalization granted under
the authority of Pennsylvania, conferred the right of citizen
ship, and that the complainant's bill mull be dismissed.
By far the greatest part of the oppofers of the new consti
tution have seen that their fears were groundless, and to their ]
great honor as citizens have cheerfully acquiesced in the ad
ministration of the government. It would be strange if some
few whose pafiions were inflamed by the dispute lhould not be
found as implacable as ever. The newspapers ftiew that the
attack on the government is renewed with more solemnity
and address than it was begun. Without pretending to fay
that these enemies of the government are in the wrong, it is
enough for a political enquirer to d'lfcern by their writings,
that they are enemies. Accordingly they mix cenfsres upon
the frame of the government, with their invectives against
men and measures. The people and these writers have very
different views; the former wish to have the constitution well
administered, the latter to make the resentment of the public
the means of its deftruftion. That the writers entertain these
views cannot be proved beyond contradiction ; lur ivho can
fee into the hearts of men?— But the complaints of these re
formers go far beyond the change of men and measures, and
they do not scruple to fay that the frame cf government itfelf
is defeaive and unfafe, Indeed, if the government is half as
bad as they defciibe it, they have some excuse for attempting
to subvert it.
423
The firft flep towards pulling tyranny down is to make the
multitude hate it. For us many, can overpower a tew, a pa
triot can be certain of beating the tyrant as soon as he can
combine the force of the many against himj accordingly, it has
been considered as worthy and laudable to inveigh agamft des
potism. But when the people set up government with their
own hands, it is absurd to attempt uniting the people against
government; why therefore some men Ihould preach about
republicanism, when tliey attempt to write down a lepublicuii
government, it is not easy to lay. Perhaps they remember
it was once popular to attack a foreign government, and tney
have not yet learned to conform their ideas to the nature of
the government they are 10 happy as to live under. Other
wise they would not sneer at the duty—for being a promise it
is a duty, of those who buoy up the government which the peo
ple have freely chosen.
Do persons usually tryto make others hate what tiiey Jove
themselves ? No ; writers who draw such vile [,i:tures of the
government, do not draw from the life, but their own disor
dered imaginations. They rave about monsters, becanfe they
are out of their wits, but the sober public cannot find them.
" The desire of public notice infatuates the mind of some
to that degree, that they prefer the censure and univerl'al re
prehension of mankind to being passed over in silence. The
idea of not being noticed is to them worse than non-existence,
and they would choose that their names Ihould be bandied
about by all clalTes of people, branded with infamy and dis
grace, rather than remain in oblivion.
" As the desire of diftinftion is universal, when one attempts
to force his way to it, others grow jealous, and take pleasure
in pulling him down, that they may raise their own upon the
ruins of their neighbour's character.
u Feeble indeed would be the guards of virtue, {lender the
fences that policy might ered: against transgression, did not
man feel a dread of that Being from whose eye not a spot in
the universe lies concealed, and who is a witness to every
thought and deed of his creatures. A belief in his superintend
ing providence—that he is the dete&or of the heart, and the
punifherof hidden wickedness, alone creates the faii<stity of
an oath, fixes the basis of virtue, and preserves inviolate the
laws ofjuftice. In all the casual modifications of political
life, religion is the foul of duty—it forms the intrepid soldier,
the conscientious legislator, the faithful magistrate, and the
upright judge; it is the great basis of civil government and of
society. The subtle and unprincipled Machiavel himfelf
pays this compliment to the ancient Romans; u their reli
gion, fays he, produced good laws, and good laws their
GOOD FORTUNE."
A late London paper fays,— a Our continental dispatches
received last night, of authority unquestionable, l'peak decided
ly of a serious and immediate attempt to effe<st a Counter-Re
volution in France."—lt is added, that the King of Pruflia,
having refufed giving audience to Monf. Segur, the French
Ambaflador, he had left Berlin abruptly.
Last Monday week arrived at New-York, the {loop Maryann,
Capt. Sage, of Middletown, in 15 days from Port-au-Prince ;
who advises, that three days previous to his leaving that place,
about 600 troops, with a number of the inhabitants, made a
sally on the revolted negroes, by whom they were repulled,
with great {laughter—that the inhabitants of Port-au-Prince,
were in the greatest consternation, expe&ing every moment a
general attack on the town.
The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania, have lately or
ganized that institution, agreeably to the a£t ot Union, by the ap
pointment of the following gentlemen to fill the different Pro
feflbrfhips.
John Ewing, D. D. Piovoft, and piofeffor of Natural Philo
sophy.
John Andrews, D. D. Vice Provost, and profeffor of moral
Philosophy, CEconomics, and Pulitits.
James Davidfon, A. M. Profeffor of the Latin and Greek Lan-
guages.
Robrrt Patterfon, A. M. Profeflor of Mathematics. 1
William Rogers, D. D. Profeflor of English ar.d the Belles
Lett res.
Henry Helmuth, D. D. Profeflor of the German and Oriental
Languages.
William Shippen, M. D. Profeflor of Anatomy, Surgery, and
Midwifery.
Adam Kuhn, M. D. Profeflor of the practice of Physic.
Benjamin Rufli, M. D. Profeflor of the Institutes and Clinical
Medicine.
James Hutchinfon, M. D. Profeffor of Chemistry.
Samuel Powel Griffitts, M. D. Profeffor of Materia Medica.
Casper Wiftar, M. D. Adjunct Profeffor of' Anatomy, Surgery,
and Midwifeiy.
Benjamin Smith Barton, M. D. Profeffor of Natural Hiftqfy
and Botany.
James Wilson, L. L. D. Profeffor of Law.
In the lift published in our last of the young gentlemen who
graduated in the Univerfuy of Pennsylvania the ißth ult. the name
of Burd Wilson, of Philadelphia, ought to have been inserted.
Married, Charles Godfried Paleske, Esq. his Prussian
Majesty's ConfulGeneral to the United States of America, to Mifa
Hannah Elmslie,of thiscity.
Died, on Wednesday last, Mr. John Hardware, and on
Friday, Mr. Georce Ronaldson, bolh of the Island of Ja
maica, from whence they lately came to this city for the recovery
of their health.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVALS at THE PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Susannah, Morry,
Schooner Peggy, Butler,
Swallow, Hall,
Sloop Polly and Sally, M'Neran,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Indents,
Final Settlements, - - iBJ6
Half (hares Bank U. S. 50 per cent, premium.
Shares Bank North-America, 13 ditto.
TO BE SOLD,
THAT large, elegant and convenient HOUSE, in which the
fubferiber now lives, situate in Elizabeth-Town, in the state
ot New-Jer!ey, with'in 16 miles of the city of New-York. It it
fin.lhed in the very best manner, and peculiarly convenient for a
gentleman with a large family. The Lot contains about four
acres of land—the Garden is large, well laid out, and flocked
with a good afTortment of fruit. For further particulars, enquire
of William Br ad for D,Efq. in Philadelphia, John Pin tard,
- £lq. ill New-York, or the Subscriber, on the Prcmifi'.
May 2, 179 a. (iaw3w) ELIAS BOUDINOT.
Bayonne
N. Carolina
Virginia
ditto
21f r
12/2
12J6
'V 3PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
»»1 jrAJTITJ.
Mat i.—Doliaii ioa Ccoueach.
A.VCHORS pr.lb. Pitch, pr. bfcL
- : - - . :. : ; , - - - ■■ * :
Di-io, Roefc p-. lb. ii< Lowe t-auky
Mho, pot, per to*, 9ci scci «-■'»
Pti:.,
Arr«:k pr. gait. ti - } ~ U c-. K-pper. f So
i.:4r. -v. . -- -P-^eoto
C<gi >C '• - 65-* p . • - : r
Bri' -uo 'pr to». 3"W33f 4C-1 Di no pr , r y
Ur cli, pr. M. i i T> ;'a pi'ty<t Ail
Errwi. &10, pr. cwt. litfu id jfc. cc pr rW (_ ti 67c
Duio r.,.0c J* 6jt Ko-jo pr. obJ. tf 30*4*1*
Ditto, loullvxr: 30c 40c f hauica pr ;<it. use
'' 40C al . i ,cs '-
« fOakpr.iffett, O' i«W 36 c,ua«ry NE. 6;c
c I Merch. pise \(J i:i ~
•< Sap, do. Si jet . lit ptt»e,p». t » 13 3:- --
C • N'.Err. «•- SjJi.-rai P r - ,oa
r. - ' j . ; * 4 ::
■■■■■ \ _ -([ ' . '
Itlirtm roils pr.cwt. yi *¥ v Cro» Irr's pr. fa» :: 6-t
•j-ClrA Jfr . bbS. ' " S««ro-t pr. d.
b •< Soft o a yd 8i Soap, Brow*
= (Cococrr « scc e
S Wmx' ' 53c Spenmc;;>.rcf -rd, 4«
Esjl " .»
5 I Umid/allov iu No j, per yard, j
: 3 tor. No I.
Zp.tiU. Z-.r. ~r . pr.
Cobduv
C.-r-'ia:c
Ciccamoa ti 4CC ta 67c
CloTfi i d 33c
Cotl pr. balbel tot «c
Cacoapr.cwt. 33c
(Mtc pr. lb. 17c ilc
Copinijj pr. cwt. iJ&jc
OirJjfcL ?iGjti4
G*um ft. lb. 3«4«
Cnnni 13c
Dack, bfa, pr. p«t 1
yiMiar r ; *• 4*4*
Fbr for
DnU pr. baft. I/JK 80l red cadar, p. £. jjt#*
Tlow.Sapcr. pr.bbi. Shimjln, fc.p. M. zV 33c 67
—-Cmwm, 4/ Dmkn|d<cU iuiy33i
Scmliaf.kait, iV33c
■ Mr»T. I«ab« si 67c Sip M&/671
*j f l*ip«- pr. icoo gpi
B*. «<* 2 I W.O.boeftcad 19*39
40. >9<jC
- pr.gaii.
SW, pr. cwt- toi cti 331
Com, wkiltncc yd ;<»
Afscono. jdrot
phta, grand pr. ib. 9c
Caßtny, xoc 14c
C—puwiler, tarn-1 . .
■o«, pr. q. c. | 3*'* **
|fao ( fiae g)axtd 4/
f Wheat pr. bolli Qsf 14
o». *c
i*>
3
£3 tnu
s ladiai coin 40c 441
a l»rley got
Best IfcelWpT. lb. 3
{. B*dtwheat prr bath, 4a
iaod 146.67
A—rinn, pc.lh. ¥ s
Bmiip, pr.bbl. *V 67
Hides, raw pr. Ib. grit
Hof* *7
flOfttml boops, pr. 11 ij
vdttx id 33
In«.M pr. lorn, 133?33
Cdbag* pr.cwt,
S5 §h< pr.to*, CtW6:
9 s *V*M67,
5 Shret >73^39
Kail rod* 961
Jiak, pi. cwt. 4^}
L»r* 1 •*-
•» I— .
--rd, hogs pr. lb, ic«
-od in pig* pr.c. 5/671
ia bar* 74
Lead, white t04t0467<
red 6^4<k6/6?c
Lexber, Cool pr. lb.
Lignum «icc pr. too, $d far U
Logwood S4W
*«c pr. lb. yd 33c 6;t
Mackaicl, best pr. bbl.
fccond qulif 6d fr/e
Madder, best pr. lb. i6r toe
liarbir.wTOftgkL, pr.f.
Mast fpiri 33f 6-c
Mobiles pr.gill.
Mofttrd per. lb. 8-«
Mahogany pr. fool, icc
Nails, loiiidioA %zi ice
Rwnrp pr. lb. -d U
'Linieed, pr. gall.
Olt»e '87c
Ditto pr. ca r e, rJ $tx
» Best firm in )
~ Aids,pr.box |
® I —baskets 1 : bottles 5 i
j Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
I Train 2~c
l.Whaie 2it 18e
Porter pr. cast, gy
—London, pr.noz. id'6c£
Porter, American } .-
y.doz. bot.incl. f
N TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Maxch 3., ,-q 2 .
OTICE is Hrrcby jwen. That the interest for the quarter,
ending this dav.ontbe FUNDED DEBT ol the United Sutes,
funding on the boots of thcTrcafary, and of the CommiGjoner of
Lottn so, this State, win be ggfct the Bank of the United St vet.
WANTED, the rnMHuieof -he Gazitt* of (he
Litid St*t*r—for whicbStx w:>! he p«d b v
u.c Edito«. r '
90.11. igt
RaSa fccrtioj, f-f
---rUlap, *«c
ci Imr.fafknte' »?
< pitio, dwllt do. 3S
? Hj. I—ih, wlmc 17c 18
« } Ditto, fcrowa, <y
L Jf ■fon-Jr-cwt.
SpriiiT(TfcMiKf(.33 ( 37 (
{ Allra pr. bra.
S >Li«rpo.l
< J Cadi* «>
" (Lifts *5* *7»
w.0.-s
Do. iO. 15/ i 33c i6d&jc
u Barrel ios
.Heading *646jt
Otter, bcS pr. pi*. 4/671
Ifiaks toe 40c
Fox, grey 4cc 80c
> IiICC
5 Uirtiiu If
I «-> . fUkcn 33c 67c
g Bean 3^
ftacooos 57c 6c*
IK see
•3
K
A
4 Be*ver,pr. lb. 67c 1 d 331
[ Deer, it kair sot
N.JcHcy, *4gal.p. bbL id
—Carolina,3* gilL
: Torpeatiae pr. Wbt. tdijjttd
c T James R. best 3d Sor 73c
c £ inferior td6yt 3d
I 8 °id 456-C
' " Rappabaßßock s
O , Colo.Maty land 8d
f U Dark zd 40c
I Long-leaf id 4c t
t a Eiftevs-fiwre 2J?d*y:
f O • Carolina.nev idjtyi
c .old do.
f Hyson pr. H>. gyidtßc
o9 { Hyson Shi,
' M i Soothoog, 50. 93c
H ! C««go, 43 c 50c
Tar,
—Ci
Tori
■.Bohca, 3&( 34c
Tallow, re&ocd 9 1
Tin pr. box,
Vadipalc pr. lb. 4 *c jy
Vcrmillioa id 33c
VarniOi, 331 37*
' Madeira, pr.p. icti 200 V
Lilboo g6i ioorf
TeneriHe, pr. gal. 51C60C
w 44* 49c
2 Fort pr. p. io<y 67c 1 ioi
r Do. m boitles.pr. doz. li
* Claret 4J 6-d
Sberry pr.galj. got titoc
Malaga -]-jc 80c
Wii, Bee» pr. lb. 2cc t*c
Wbale-bcoejongpr.lb. lyjc<
COURSE Of IXCRAKGL.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 davs 8f ) ,
6c days P r -^ -<i»
30 flays 6j> '
Asafttrdan*, 60 day*,
pr. gurtder,
y>d»y*
Gorermnent bills, drawn at 10
days per 11 guilders, 4V 441
France, 60 days '
■Pr viftjrue«f
■1> Wutuht ai "f™- J«<r»«
Wftagrftiwiß «* W* Wn
Art > ilfH»Jim ■ C*«H
at wiTtfaf itiafbciMaA|ik jMn » F 11 '"'*
■ ■Mil lull! !■ I«—I| IIIIMHB fll» 111 111 H«»L1»C M<lkc
a P DW r wiftifAl >l).fc-
P« wiHbr M ky ffclw. Vtliir,
tnfi of pwi.T 0i Lad (or n —cfc
VmJi of'■io.rfttii Aiiitl ><»*■» »■*
wfcm, "■ fc—lb 4af (U as Kjt mm, ly- —Ai the koafr
■♦" ■ y WUJLIAM coodvijij
JOBS WJSTA* «-4 > C wiinm
THO«U cmaxT, )
IM< April, 179«.
Bank of the United States.
H*sca *1, i79»-
RESOLVED, Ttia»theStockholdci*be, aaifeffbf are, »-
tborifcd to co»ftra* ifccir Sbia at mrs amt
hciauiW paiodi Ike U« of 11 iMpuiaßi—.
Rcfahrd, That cach Shfc'fc compleatrd, &aQ J* adiU to
dm a dividend of <fcr prafinof the ■w.hefeasd afie*thefii«
davofthe naah ant bccccdißg the day of cmplcatiag bch
Shares.
RtfeM, That to anch of the qaarter'l oaneftaraathc Pah-
Bc Debt uaarfmed — eoa»plc< aay Shaae a» ltmfpil, ufaH
hare acoaed before rile fir* day of the moatb aext IWccediag the
luaiplniiai of fath Share, flkall be icujvcd by the lad, aad paid
to the per&Mt who QbH hwc 11 laih mil the &ac.
By order of the FuMew aad Direfton,
(eptiftr) JOHN KKAN, Cgtsr.
At A MEETIBC OF THE DuiCTOll OF THE BISE O?
Tii UiiTirtiom >Ui«i 3fb i; 9«.
RESOLVfcO, That the Ofico of Oifcnaat aad l>cpafit he
f harifnl fir —rr <—the 3d aad 41b Spade
PayaeMsaa their Shares ia the Capital Stock of the Baak, aad
that tte Cafcios of the fcid otrn pw dapbeatg receipts far lach
pay meau, oar of which receipu, arroaipaaird with cndeacs of a
transfer of pabbc debt fa&cieat to coaiplcfc laid flurcs,Bpoa be-
at the Baak, haß eatiile iach Stockholders to cer
bhcatesior fad ham, aad ta all thrheaefitaof the Rtfuteiaai
of theßoard of DSraftorspafcd the«i§ iaAaaf, rwlaOM to com
pktiag scare. by pay-eat at aay tec befm (he periods segued
by the law of tacorporatioa.
By order of the fii fall at aad IKnAm.
JOHN KtAX. OJUer.
Certificate Loft.
WAS Lot, oa the 17th sat. a CERTIFICATE, Namberrd
pawed to Lawn Nicbola, for the ba of
307 14-goth BoDtfii dated the ift of May, 1784* aad Sgaed by
Johi Pibicb, Etq. sarked with the letter /—Whoever ha*
fooadthe bar, and will tetania toCiimiT hntt.Hf.
Notary Pafalic, at No. tt, ia Float Irctt, laathof HaikaJbd,
or to the Nian at this popar, fed he gumwß) rewarded.
April iS, 179*-
WASHINGTON, i» tie Territerj 1/ Coiumiu.
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com.
mrfHoocTs of the Fedcrai Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, lhal! p-odocc to tne mo;l ap
proved PL AN,if adcuted by them, for a PRESIDENT'S HOUSE,
to be ere&ed to this Citv. The freof tbe building, if the artiii
will attend to it. will cf course influence tbe afpeft and outline of
his plan ; 2nd it's detl:nation will point out to him the number,
size, and dtftrib-jtion of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any p?3n, if tbe central part of it may be detached and
ere&ed for the prelent, w;th the appearance of a complete whole,
and be capable of admitting the addictona! parts, in futare, if they
(ball be wanting. Drawings will be expe&ed ot tbe ground plats,
elevations of each front, ar.d fedions through the bonding, in f'uch
diredions as may he necedarv 1 o exolatn the internal ftrudure ;
and an eftiinxe of the cnbic feet of brick-work com paling the
whole mass of the walls.
Uuii.k 14. 1793
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
OF a LOT in this Cut, to be defigaated by haparfu!
awl FIVE HONORED DOLLARS; or a MEDAL at Out
valor, » the oylioa of the party; will be given.by tbe Commit
fiooen of tbe Federal Buildings, to tbe peifott who, before tbc
fifteenth diy of July, 179 c, &iaU predate to tbcm tbe most ap
proved PLAN,it adapted by itic*, for aCA PI TO L, to be cic&d
in tbu City; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a ML DAL, for tbc Plan deened next in merit totheooe thej
flsall adopt, The baildrng Co be of buck, ana to contain ihe fol
lowing apartments, to wit •
. - , B ) fufEclrnt to ac-1
VRoo-fartbeT j these room,
** efa,utira S p«fc«"nchr ! :o be ot
A Lobby or Antichamber to the latter ; full cim-
A Senate Room of i*oo fq»are feet area j tion.
Ao Aobchamber or Lobby to the iaft J
t a Rooms of 600 flqißTe feet area rxb, for Committee Room* tad
Clerks* Offices, to be of bats tbe e levari cm of the former.
Drawings will be expe&ed of the ground ptats. elevations of
each froor. awl fr&icris through the baildin? in foch diregions
as may be necessary to explain the internal ftruSiire; and aneiti
mate of the cubic feet of brick.work composing the wbotc mais
of the walls.
Jiirch 14,1792.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co. "
HAVE just now opened their Liad-W.m ehovsi, two doors
fonth of Walnur-ftreet Wharf, adjoiairgtheir New Fadoty—
where thev have now made, and ready for sale, a •enrni atlort
mentof SHOT of all Oao. witb SHEET aod BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As they have ctnpioyed a
number of experienced Engiiib wotkraen. they warrant it to be
equal in quality to anv manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cod of imported.
-37^
They also ccminue to rninafa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders ad ore fled to either of »he
2bove Factories, will be thankfully received, and ex rented on the
Iborteft notice.
X. B. Warned, indeftnous, fobcr, Labouring Men, at the said
Mine*, where constant employ, good wage*, and other
mnits will be given, means ofconveyance fcticg provided, aod
house* for their reception.
For further particularsenquire of Med:?. Mosis Acrr:s& Co.
at their Fa&ory :n Richmond, or is above.
Pkila&ipkia, Deccnkzr 3,1791. * if
424
THE COVMISSIOXERS.
tf THE COMMISSIONER?
Joists St
S7VCr-BMOKEo7 »
jgw
("nj
JUST rUßLi'riLL>,
AVD TO SS *OL2> J 7
THOMAS DOBSOS, BtrknUrr,
Ai the Score Hol v »« Srcooc-Sc-rrei,
The Ft?tVo iw«^
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS-
.Orfftfof state Mmi, aori mkn
MoUankiiibfaraiiilaiy <i tke Cwin Stun
or Aainci,
4w.fP.
IT EMWEZER HAZARD. >. u.
Ihahi of the Awma Plilufu^kiai Sochk, ktU at n^dd.
|*» <T lw»»M(t; WMntf tx A—,
no* Aaimmj al Awmdlowu.
Thr4c%> of 4ki» MfibM kn| to ■! afc&a •
Wj»Uffcrioo>itf»l iapwut ad atincc Jaoaoait-
Uwg«• «fcefcijtn|n«Bnin,fw in difcwn ■*— f*Y imUi
to wjmre a lkana|k kmlcdfc of dus Ujid.
4»™' ♦-
'piece 6/5
By M ATHEV CARE Y,
Ai. 118, hhriat-Siretf. F:v~tiSr*ut.
The Ladies' Library;
k. Mifi Hgn'tlfifs
a. Gnjm'i Leper
Lady Pniainyaa'i Advice
4. MMfhioa.fi of L»bcn*s
Advice Ifaß'iMhiWikUß
r | editor of this pablirnina hafg, baa the dbmj itt-
JL paratsoa of the fcwnl mfl» of wfcach it is ca—paled. dp
it will befoaad > awr aiiapli 11 rtftn (or the aAraftu WAt
female world, tbaa pnh»pt jay other 1 ana
; A . rader the pciat nit, Ta lastly paUUhed it Ew
lxii*d lii laail mil hart I land ■ ipal Mi hiWathnapaiihifcil
pr alatoA nay lady of tale is thole kiagdoss. To tknwhae
the editor IwadM UrG Uofr 1 ! Un-la ChpoartlOHa
oa the pnfani of ike tewper—eed Swift** later (a a yaaag
Udranlj imifd TVfcbit tnafidenhiyrahMiid ~t ilm
iad he doahts not, the ladies oa tkn fide of the AtlancxilkK
pi iuoi ia their caooongaacat of a work iatradtd for then ad
s iiuip a those ia Eapaad aad lithaj hne beta.
*,* SETS OF THE AMERICAN MUSED M.
AS fowl fntltmrw h irjzreat farts as the Uwtei Vai, tee
Pre* 4i/tpftimlri h ttcrr aff&mmu/tr omfUtfrti tftie
Amiic ax Sfcllux, Mr frtxler imfmus t£t fmMx, tkn ti is o
g*(td r» rtfmtimg lit iefdeti >nfcn tftie nri, nites rear ixi
a«7 ifctfummri im • cmfm fmtfh «fftl m ia*£\—Jmk gt*At
mem, Atrtjwrt,
Itimes, *Jmtem Mtrs.
Tkis aaari wcitlte fnoUttomti 1 t!fpm fa»Mi»*i
ticMl, Mgrita&ajml, md mJceUoems cjv s, ««9 no fibjid. a
Ammc*.
StU C«»it t« kith
1. BUalig of foniy, Britifll aad A WHIM ia, i*.
а. Seattle's Elements of Morai Scieace, ss. 7^-
3. M'Fmgi!, an rpic porm, 1/9J
4. Blair's Sti mm. complete ia s rah. 15s.
5. N'ecker'i Treattfe 00 RcKgio«s OpniiOK, 6<-
б. Itimiiutioa of SheAcV)*! Obfernlioai, 4/i
7. American Coaftitmioas, 4J%
8. Dowar Bible—Beat, 6 dolls.—eiegaat, gsfi
9. Vade Mccum, i/t9|
to. Charles Craodifeo, abridged. 1/3
11. Humphrey'* Poems, booad */6, tahlae paper ifi-i
11. American J eft Book, ia two parts, board, 4/6
13. SeleA Poems, 1/3
14. Thiak well on't, i/tOs
15. The Chr!9a» Icommr, i/wj
OjftU Caiit mmt tt W, tiUi, Tefamtrti, Sf*Mhg-t&.
Primers. Q*tUs* M.Fntdrr. Wrjtixg-Pd+cr tf nzrl/xj ktis, imi*-
Piper, Ptciet-Bmii, W<joi DxaJers, /mi-SfaJt, 3Uff,tmi
PUrtmg Cards, &c. &<.
Farms & Mills for Sale &Leafc.
TO BE SOLD,
A VALUABLE FARM, muate on tbe Tmpeke load esc
in» from Baltimore-Town to R;ftc»VTowa,
from the former ; coniaicin* ibo-5 430 or acres o« r**
farming land, 70 or acrcs of which arc ficciltnt j'lfc ;
about 170 acres a r e cleared, upwards of tw-ni? whereof re maae
meadow ; the ret doe abounding in good t: ruber, and other : e »
for eocsr>fure and fuel: There are two appie-orcha-: s inrreos.
and buildings that may do, for the prefcoi, for an Oterlra
bis family.
Alio, a T rack of LAND, c*m tain ins about 600 »:-e. w: ," "
two miles of the fame road, and about 18 or *c n: :ies c fear, c*
fU'timore-Town ; about 700 aces whereof a-* c.eareC. eu
ciofed and im oroved by and with valuable *-
eice ient meadow, near 20 acres, nade.
Alio, a small FARM, on a public road leadm* to si d t«»".
about the fame difiance therefrom as the Irft defendedJ* nc
iz.nmz IC 3 acres, whereon is an excelien: apple-orehard, ou.
other improvements of much vain:*. _ _
The two firft above-menttoned Farms are formfeed w l _j*v>
ft;>ck of each kind, and all neceflarr implements of hu.baodrr.
vhich *mv be had with them : tbev are iown with w-re»t, w
prorr.'Ses an abundant crop;—the k - mefc of the «•. 1 1
his ben, f w nine years, *«d is now, condoled bv a lk«» c
doftriocs Manager, who may be continued in the maoag- T- •»
on teims.
TO BE lET,
A FARM, ont'se f.td Tanwike Raid, !r»d.n- from **--
Town 10 Wtochefter,TWey Towo. Frederick, and u-_'
wbcTfoa iintfioi 4 liigr commoflfwa bfkkfio. *1.1.1 L-t
oU for fame years pail a» a U»er«, arv : . *> v »
llul buboefs coctd be mad- an excellent flage;_«•; ° - .
rods otwiri. and on the raiia fali< of Pr-a- ; s .»»••» t ,
a GRIST-MILL,now in y>od .-vder far Merrnanl-Wofk,
new SAW-HILL, «ad Land iSrrrwnb.
F.. iht tl? and win .of tile, and »Sor VK r*
Baltimore County, March 7, 1792.
TO az i OLD B\ TBI M |7ol » . ,
A TAStE for >o4 P»:T 4 l",
A I'nurd Stncj, fce-i-, tor " °Lf 1-'^'-
Cents. from On: to . f ( -. c
Afic! Coafr^b,»fcti«aini»g4lKSland»i»>4
CCXTAtXISC.
5- Wrt LeOer tainn
tied Lady
ct Tetaarr ""' "™" —
THOMAS TONES.
V
"t
I
'co.inr|