pflii filhuUbcPl
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. & 9> HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 13, of Vol. IV.]
BANK of the UNITED STJTES,
July 2d, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, That there will be
paid at the Bank, after the 10th instant, to
xhr Stockholders, or their reprefeotatives duly au
titorized, the following sums, being the dividend
declared from the commencement of the mftitu
\ion to the firit inllant, viz.
Yor each share complcated in the month of
March, Twelve Dollars.
For each share completed in the month of April
•Ten Dollars, Sixty-[even Cents.
For each share compleated in the month of May,
XJine Dollars, Thirty-three Cents.
For each hals-share, Eight Dollars.
By order of ihe President and Directors,
(2 w.) JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
THE UNIVERSAL HYMN BOOK.
Now in the Press, and will be ready for Sale in
ten days, by THOMAS DOBSON, and
other Booksellers in Philadelphia,
\ Self&ion of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS ; taken from different Au
thors, for the Use ot those who believe in the
Rcftorationof all Men. Published by Order of
the Convention holding said Faith, met in Phila
ddohia, May, 1731.
As this is an Universal Hymn Bnok, the
favor of the Printers in different parts, in inserting
the above advertisement, will be acknowledged.
July ii. eptf.
SECURITIES
SOLDIERS, Mariners, and militia men's pay,
lands, and claims on the public,
SH ARES, in the Banks, in the Canals,and Turn
pike Road,
CERTIFICATES, granted by the public, and
the old and laie paper monies,
NOTES of hand, bills, bonds, and mortgages
with or without deposits,
BOUGHT, fold, or negotiated, at No. 2, in
Fourih-ilieet below Market-tercet, by
FRANCIS WHITE,
Who tranfa&s business in the public offices for
country people and others,by virtue of a power,
of attorney, or bv personal application
PHILADELPHIA,
24 Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY the 30th March last, a NEGRO
WOMAN, by tne name otCHLOE. She
is five feet two and a halt inches high ; quick
spoken ; upper tooth open ; no eye-bro ats at all ;
is about 30 vears old, but looks much younger.
She is wc'.l (locked with cloaths, long gowns, jack
ets, See. She is no w palling for a free woman, I
understand, and has changed her name—Whoever
takes her up, so that the owner gets her, (hail re
ceive the above reward ; and if brought home, all
other reasonable expences, from the fubfenber.
JOHN PUZEY.
Somerset County, near Princess-Ann,
Maryland, June 2id, 1792. (*iaw4<v)
Wm. CLE LAND,
BOSTON,
Tranfa&s bufmefs in the Funds of the United
States ;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &:c.
Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or 1
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality.
J un c 1. (epim & iaw2m*
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the fubferiber in February
last, a NEGRO LAD, named PHIL, about
20 years of age ; had on when he went away, a
round jacket, a paii hornefpun breeches, and a tow
shirt ; thelellow has a yellowish complexion, his
heighth about five feet fix or seven inches, very
Jquare made ; has a mark along fide of his nose,
and one of his insteps has been burnt, which causes
the sinews to draw.
Whoever takes up said Negro, and secures him
in any jail, so that I may get him agaiu, shall re
ceive the above reward, and have all reasonable
charges paid. ROBERT PEARCE.
Head Sajjafras, June 16,1792.-
RUN AWAY Irom the fubftriber, living in
Kent County, and State ot Maryland, on
Sunday the 27th May last, a NEGRO MAN,
named Hark; about 40 years of age, about five
feet nine inches high, has a fear over one of his
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs his head on
one lide, and looks up—hag on and took urith
him the following eloaths, via. a feardfeglu coat,
a black and white kersey coat, cut round,a white
kersey jacket and breeches, two pair of yarn {lock
ings, the one pair lately footed, and the ofter not,
two oznaburgh Ihirts, each pieced •» one fidej
two pair of tow-linen trowfers, -one pair patched
with new tow-linen foie parts, and an
old felt hat.
whoever takes up said Negio, if out of this
State,and fecurcs him in gaol, (hall receive FOUR
-IEEN DOLLARS reward—and if taken within
this State, and fccured as aforcfaid, {hall receive
LIGHT DOLLARS reward ; and ll brought
home, realonable expcnces will be paid by
PEREGRINE LETHRBURY.
Chejer-Touin, June 4, 1791. (ep 8w )
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-flreet, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave, to offer
ins iervices to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Brokei. Those who may pleale to fa
vor him with their business, may depend upon
having it tranfatted with the utmost fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other
part of the United States wiil be ftrijtUy attend
ed to.
May 2
GENERAL POST-OFEICE,
PH 1 LADE LPHI A, Jul\ 7, 1792.
FOR the information of Merchants and me Mat
ters or Commanders of*Vv ffels, are published
the following extra&s from the Law for ettablith
ing Poll-Offices and Pott-Roads within the United
States.
In fe£iion io, it is ena&ed that there (hall be
charged ik for ev t rv letter or packet brought into
the United State.% or carried from one port there
in to another by sea, in any private ihip or vessel,
four cents, if delivered at the place where the fame
fhali arrive ; and it directed to-be delivered at airy
other placc, with the addition oi the like pottage,
as other letters are made fu'ujcct to the payment
of by this adl."
Infe&ioni2, " That no ship or vessel, arriving
at any port within the United States, where a polt
office is ettablilhed, (hall be permitjed to report,
make entry or break bulk, till the mailer or com
mander lhall have - delivered to the pottmafter, all
letters directed to any perion or peifoin> within
the United States, which, under his care or within
his power, (lull be brought in such (hip or vessel,
other than iuch as are dire&ed to the owner or
consignee : but when a vessel shall be bound to a
nother port, than that, at which she may enter, the
letters belonging to, or to be delivered a: the laid
port ot delivery, lhall not be delivered to the pott
matter at the port ot entry-. And it lhall be the
duty ot the collector or other officer ot the porr,
empowered to receive entries ot ships or vessels,
to require from every matter or commander of
such ihip or vt ffel, anoa h or affii mat ion, purport
ing that he has delivered ail luch letters, except as
atorefaid.!' *
(iaw6w)
In fetlion 13, 4t That the postmaster to whom
such lclteis ir.ay be delivered, lhall pay to the
mafttr, commander, or other person delivering
the fame, exccpt the commanders ot foreign pack
ets, two cents tor every such letter or packet; and
ftiall obtain from the pcrfou delivering the fame,
a certficatefpecityiog the number of letters and
pz <rti, with the name of the (hip or veflel,
ana the place from whence fne last failed ; which
cert ficaie, together with a receipt tor the money,
lhall be with his quarterly accounts, transmitted
to the Postmaster-General, who iHail credit the
amount thcieof to the poitmaltcr lorwardnig the
fame."
for general information, the 14th feftien is pub
lished, 44 And be it further enofted, That if any
pet son, other than the Pofttnafter-General, or his
deputies, or persons t»y them employed, lhall take
up, receive, order, dispatch, convey, carry or de
liver any letter or letters, packet or packcts, other
than newfpapcrs, tor hire or reward, or lhall be
concerned in fctting up any foot or hoife post,
waggon or other carnage, by or in which any let
ter or packet (hall be carried for hire, on any esta
blished post-road, or any packet, or other veifei
or boat, or any conveyance whatever, whereby the
revenue of the general poft-oftce may be injured,
every perlon, so offending, ihall torfeit, for evety
luch otiencr, the lum ot two huudred dollars.
Provided, That it (hall and may be lawful tor eve
ry person to fend lctteis or packets by fpccial mcf
fenger.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE (OLD (PRICE \oJ,')
By EBENEZER HAZARD,
128 North Second-Streci,
THE
HISTORY
New-Hampshire,
Containing a geographical description of the
Slate—with (kctchcs of its natural history, pro
du6fions«e improvements, and Hate ot to
ciety and manners, laws and government.
(*eprm)
By Jerem* Belknap, A. At.
This volume compleats the history, and is
peculiarly intcrefting. Subscribers arc delired
10 call for their books.
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Creditors of
Edward Man kin, an infolvcnt debtor,
confined in the gaol of the county ot Saiein, injthe
ttate of New-Jersey, that the Judges of the Infe
rior Court of Common Pleas tor laid county, on
application to them made, have appointed the
twenty-eighth day ot Julv next tor the said Credi
tors to appear before any two or more of said
Judges, at the town of Salem, to ftiew cause, if
any they have, why an alignment of the said
debtors estate should not be made, *nd he be dit
charged from confinement, pursuant to an Ast ot
Aflembly, palled the 24th of November last, for
the relief of infolvcnt debtors then confincd.
June 25,1792. (» 3 -)
Saturday, July 14, 1792.
LEONARD BLS.ECKER.
('•»■)
Vol. 11l
49
FXOU THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE of tit UNION.
(continued.)
Concerning the Imports cj the United States
THIS part of the national bufincfs has given
nfe to doubts, whether the United States are
really in d prosperous lituation. The apprrhen
lion is believed, however, to have proceed* d from
levcral errors. The efhmation of the imports,
lias probably been made at the prices current in
America, which is more than the United States
pay for them, by the total value of the following
particulars. i,Such pait of the Ihipping chaigcs «t
---broad a* accrue to the benefit of r ihe citizens of the
United States,who may be on the fpotto make the
ftiipments ; 2. That part of the freight upon
them which is paid upon our own vessels; 3, That
part of the premium of mfurance upon them,
which is paid to American underwriters or iu
furers ; 4, The whole amount of the duties of the
custom houle fees, 011 the goods, amount
to several million of dollars ; 5. The amount of
the tonnage and fees on foreign veiicls, which are
dedu&ions in favor of the country, from the va
lue of the goods imported in them ; 6. The por
terage, llorage, cooperage, weighing, guagmg,
niealuring, commiilions on falcs here, and other
incidental expenUs 011 that part or the imports
which belongs to foreigners; 7. The profits ol
our merchants on that part of tne imports which
belongs to them ; 8, The wafteage of goods be
longing to foreigners between then arrival or time
of valuation and the time of laic; g, The benefit
of credit which is not less than two and an haif
per cent, on the whole v<nue of our lmoorts ; dnd
10, The value of those imported goods which re
mdin in the country, being the proverty of perrons
intending to become, or who will ultimately be
come citizens of the United States, iiut the ap
parent or conjectural difproportiori between the,
exports and imports of the United States, will bt
considerably duninifhed by the falcs of vessels to'
foreigners at home and abroad—the faies or lands
to them—the expenses of foreigners here—the
expenies of foreigh vessels, and the coll of their
lea Itoies—their commiilions on Hie fhipinent oi
their cargocs, and 011 the dilburlemrnt of tht\i
vessels, as already obierved in treating of our ex
perts. Beliaes tneic, the freight of goods to fo
reign countries in our vessels (not less, probably,
than three millions of dollais) and the proliu
upon all the goods exported on the account of our
own citizens, contribute very much to encrealc
the fund, wherewith our unpoiu arc purchaled
and paid for. An ellunate, which fiiall com
prehend all the-fe items at their true value, is ne
cessary to form a fatisl»&ory opinion of the ba
lance on our trace. From fucfi an estimation
(which has been made) there would relult no ica
fon to doubt our proiperity; nor will this appcai
queltionable, when it is remembered, that the
outward freights on our own vessels and the
duties on goods imported, - amount together to
6.400,000 dollars, which is mote than one tbird
of our expoits. The balance of trade has been
aptly denominated the metaphvfics of commerce.
To determine it with mdilputable certainty re
quires as accurate and elaborate an invelligation
as a metaphyseal qucifion : and though this as
sertion proves nothing, it will lufpiie us with due
caution againlt haftiiy adopting unfavorable con-
clufions.
An opinion so me what lingular and of consider
able impoilance will be hazarded upon tins fub
jedh The United Siates, to make the utinoil ad
vantage of things in their present improveabJe
lituation, should have little or no balancc m their
favor ou their genera) commcrce. It their ex
poits, outward heights, laics of vciFels and lands,
&c. amount to twenty-four million of dollars
pei annum, they will find their true interest in
importing the whole value in well felefted com
modities. It is better, for example, that they
import molaflVs, hemp, cotton, wool, bar-iron,
hides, skins, furs, la'tpetre, sulphur, copper, tin,
brass, paper, mahogany, &c. to roanufa£lure ;
tools for artizans, and materials and utcnfils for
conftrufting works, improving wade lands and
cultivating farms, and breeding cattle, horses and
sheep, than that they (hould bring back the equi
valent in gold or silver.
The sum we annually import in articles of that
nature, more precions to us than the moll precious
metals, would conffitute an imm nfe balance in
our favor ; such, indeed, as would in a few years
oppress out country with too copious a cuculating
medium, or compel us to export it.
That the exports and other means of paying
for our imports are much more adequate to the
occasion, than they were during several years fub
lequent to the peace, is manilcft from the Hate of
our private credit in Europe.
A diilin&ion, and it is conceived, a very im
portant one, has been already intimated in favor
of such of our imports as are of a nature adapted
to enhance the value of our lands, or to employ
or aliift our citizens : and in regard to those
which are for immediate consumption, the quan
tity cannot be in proportion to our lormer im
ports considering the increase of population.—
We have almost absolutely cealed to import shoes,
boots, fadlery, coarse hats, piate, fnuff, manu
factured tobacco, cabinet wares, carriages, wool
and cotton cards, hanging paper, gun powder
and other articles ; and we have exceedingly di
minished our importation of coatfe linnen and
woolen goods, cordage, copper utensils, tin uten
sils, malt liquots, loaf sugar, ite 1, paper, playing
cards, glue, wafers, fine hats, biazicry, watches
and clocks, cheese, &c. and we euher makethefe
articles from native proouttions, by which the
whole \alue is (buck off fiom our imports, or we
r <4 A ( -C
[Whole No. 555.]
manufacture them from foreign raw inaicrul?,
which coil leis than the goods uled io do, efpccialiy
as they often yield a great freight iu our own vei-
IcU. Thus the height of molafTes to make run ,
imported in one yeai, at two dollais per hhd. was
not leis than 140.000 dollars. The fame oblerva
tioa occuts as to hemp, cotton, iron, copper, brafd,
tin, fait petre, lulphur, inahogany, hides, dye
woods, and other iaw materials.
From these circumftanrial evidences, there
would appear to be little danger of miltake, in
concluding, that our imports, in a medium c,f
two or three years, have not been difproponion
<'te to our exports, and other I'afe and regular
means of balancing the amount of our iuppUcs.
But though the documents for acomparifon be
tween the present imports and those antecedent
to the revolution, are less perfect than is to be
delired, some which offer are worthy of atten
tion. Our imports from Great-Britain in
making some addition lor those from Ireland*
and adding twenty per cent, to bring them to
their market value, were worth here above
2,400,0001. llerling. In this item, the;informa
tion obtained from a report of the Lords of the
British pnvy council is principally relied on though
a part of it is fupplementlry information. To
(Ins sum is to be added, a proportion of the im
ports into .all the American colonies in 17-0,
f;om all the reft of the world but Great-Britain]
whleft, after dedutting therefiom 23,000!. fieri,
for the vaiue imported into Bermuda, the north
ern British colonies, and Newfoundland, leaves
1,0.50,0001. at the vaiue here. The total value
of our imports in 1770, would then appear to have
been more than 3 , 45°3° t>0 » 01 about 15,000,000
dollars as thev would have fold in the American
market, exclufivc of tfie contraband tiade which
was coniiderable. This will be'ieen by a refer
ence to the liifl number of these reflexions, to be
full seven millions inoie than our exports at the
fame time, if then our imports were to bear the
fame proportion to 18,250,000 dollars (our present
exports)'the former might be above 24,000,000
dollars, without creating more alarm than we had
then leafon to feel, 'i his view of the iubjetl may
convince us, that our imports were too copious,
at leait m some quarters, for several years before
rue war ; and hence we find a heavy load of pri
vate debt was created and remains upon some of
the citizen* of the United States at this day. Hap
pily for the United Slates, the reduction of the
prices of iupplies, by the present freedom of their
commerce, by the agency of fkilful merchants, in
itead of planters inexperienced intrude, by the in
trodu&ion of machinery in Europe, and by their
own manufacturing industry, has kept down their
imports many millions of dollars below that sum,
although the impoftand tonnage have diredtly or
.indirectly contributed to enhance the nominal a
mount without incicdfuig the sum to be paid lor
,• them abroad.
A Sketch of the general Trade of the United States.
IN taking a iurvey ot the American commerce*
the attention is att rafted to the.increase
of (hip building, the new manufactoriesof articles
necefTary to the equipment ol veflels, and the im
provement in the aitof ship building, as well as
the superior quality of the materials now used in
their conltruttion. The largest number of veflels
built in any one year before the late war, as far as
it can be ascertained, was equal to 24,358 !on>,
and at lealt 32,000 tons of superior quality were
built in 1791. The timber and plank, are more
cholen, nnd iron is more copiously used at this timt\
becaule the vcifels are not intended for fafe-, and
the fenlible practice of falling them is bccom
very frequent. It is important, too, that the art
ot thip building is diffufed more generally than
•any other equally important one which is carried
on within the United States.
The export trade in our produce is more bene
ficial than heretofore to the landed inteitft, be
caule ihe cultivatois Go not, as formerly, antici
pate upon their oops abroad, by ordering out
lupplies at the difcrction ot the European mer
chant, to be paid for in shipments of their crops
on their own account and risque. The planters
in Maryland md Virginia, particularly the tobac
co planters, iuflered extreme ly by an inconfider
purfuit of that practice before the revolution.
1 he American merchant is noW more frequently
their importer; and as he underitands the mode
of procuring goods cheap, the re<ii piofiis of the
import and export tiade of the country, are in a
greater degree divided between the planter and
the trader.
Ihe redu&ion of the prices of East-India and.
China goods, ot every ipeciej ot manufactures in
which labor-saving machinery and flight apply,
and ot wines, occaiion our imports to be obtained
on moie favorable terms. This beneficial ef
fect is increased by the freedom ot our import
trade, which lets in the produ&ions and manu
factures ot all countries by a dire£t intercourse
with them, which was formerly forbidden. From
the fame caule, superior prices tor our produce
and manufactured articles have been obtained.
If tobaceb is becoming an exception, it is to be
remembered, that great prices were obtained for
it till lately, and that the txiraoidinary quantity
raited is tufheient to account for its tall.
(TO BE CONTINUED.}
THE UNITED STATES.
HAIL rifmg States ! —lei envy blot her pagc #
And disappointed malice vent hrr rage ;
Thy councils fleady, built on wisdom's plan,
While laws support the sacred rights of man ;
41 Peace, liberty and fdfety," here fhjll reign,
While fun and moon and ilais and (kits remain.,FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
LONDON, May 23.
A LETTER was written by rlie
Kiiig on Friday night, addrefled
to Lord Thorlow, Lord High Chan
cellor of England, declaring th it he
had no further oecafion fur his fervi
c es
Ic wasrenjaikaWe, that Lord Tnur
low prefixed as usual in his place in
the Court of Chancery on Saturday ;
and it is to bs wilhed that a reconci
liation may tike place between the
jarring parties.
Mr. Pitt having confulered the con
duct of the Lord Chancellor on the
national income and expenditure bill,
not only as a direc't and decided
mark of hostility to his uiinifterial
measures, bur heaving also felt the
language made use of on the occasion
as a perfonaj affront to himfelf, he
formed a resolution of resigning his
situation, if Lord Thurlow was per
mitted to hold the Chancery Seals.
To develope the causes of the rup
ture between Lord Thurlow and Mr.
Pitt, which has the re
moval of the former from the Kino's
Councils, would be 110 easy talk. Their
differences are of long (landing, and
have become inveterate by indul
gence. They began on the qneftion
of Mr, Hastings* trial in 1786, and
hardly one measure hasocctired since
that time, upon which they have cor
dially agreed. Strong and niniual
attachment betwen his Majesty and
the noble Lord, re'ained him in office
againlt the wilhes of Mr. Pitt ; and it
is a fair, that now he is difuiiifed
through the holtility of a certain
diftinguilhed person, whose occalion
al interference in political intrigue
is at length matter of record.
None of his friends retire with
him. The Marquis of Stafford conti
nues in place,and the noble and learn
ed Lord has the fatisfadlion of know
ing that he carries his Majesty's ap
probation into private life,from which
it is not improbable but he may f'oon
be recalled.
His dismission was direct. He re
ceived a letter from Mr. Dmulas, in
timating the King's pleasure, that he
would be ready, in a few days, to ac
cept the offer which he had made, of
resigning the seals. He keeps then,
till to morrow, against which time a
cominiflion will be ready for putting
them into the hands of three judges,
who are {aid to be Chief Baron Eyre, I
Mr. Justice Buller, and Mr. luttice
Wilson.
Letters from the East-Indies were
received from Lord Cornwallis, by
the Queen, and Minerva ships, dated
the 20th January 1792, by which we
learn that the strong Hill fort ofNun
dy Durgum was carried by alfault 011
the 24th of October last ; a poll of
infinite consequence, as it secures ex
tensive communications behind the
army : the firft Killaderand Buklhey
were taken prisoners, and the second
Killader and a few of the garrison
were killed, but the greatest "part of
them escaped by scrambling down
the rocks on the back of the fort.
Major Cowdie has also reduced the
fort of Rymunghers ;-and General
Meadows took by storm on the night
of the 17th Oc'iober, the amazfng
strong fort of Nundy Droog ; it con
lilted of about 700 men, the mnior
part of whom escaped down the rock ;
but the Ift and 2d Killedars and the
Bukfliey we.e made prisoners. Se
vevndroog, a fortrefs hicherto deem
ed impregnable has likewise been
carried by alfault. Lord Cornwallis
is expected to reach Seringapatam by
the 25th January, f 0 that accounts of
the capture of that place may be look
ed for (hortly.
Information is said to be received
by the I landers mail, that La Fayette
is gone w„h his army of 50,000 men
to besiege Namur.
Report states, that M. Rochambeau
after the repulse of M. Biron, imme
diately marched with his force to re
new the attack of Mons, and ic was
expetfied that he must succeed.
On the 4th ulr. the f.omte de Kellar
remitter of Pruflia to the United Ne
therlands, delivered a memorial, to
which a categorical answer was de
manded, whether their High Mighti
ness would or would not Itill retain
in their pay and service the troops
ol Anfpach ; and that his Royal Mas
ter would, in the latter cafe, cause
thein to be removed from the territo
ries of Holland.
In reply to this memorial, on the
24th ult. their High Might inefles,with
■ lie concurrence of the Prince Stadt
holder, resolved to retain one year
longer in their pay and service, not
only the troops of Anfpach, but also
ihofe of Brunlwick and Mecklenburg.
The provinces of Guelder, Utrecht,
Ki iezeland.Qveryfleljand Groningen,
have already given an affirmative to
this Hep ; and their High Mightinefl
es have ordered a requisition to be
aiade to the provinces of Holland and
Weft Friefland, who have hitherto
only consented to the retaining of
the troops of firunfwick.
The Polish Church is laid to have
given the greatest proof of patriotifui
which an tcclefiaftical establishment
could possibly give, by faciificing its
revenues to the service of the state,
and reserving only a living for its
own clergy.
The mines of Mexico, in pofleffion
of Spain, have produced more during
ths la(t year,'than in any one since
they were fir It discovered. The
amount of coined gold and silver, for
'79 1 >is 2i,i2r,7i3 crowns, besides
the value of 2,000,000 of crowns not
coined.
The following are the stations of
the French General Officers :
Army of Rochambeau, comprizing
the fiiit and fixih divifions.—Mai e
chal Rochambeau at Valenciennes ;
Lieutenant-Generals d'Aumont, at
Lisle ; de Floeck, at Dunkirk ; Cril
lon, fen. at Valenciennes ; Caulain
jcourt, at Arras ; d'Harville, at Cam -
bray. Nine Camp Marechals in the
above mentioned places.
Army of la Fayette, comprehending
the second, third and fourth divisions.
Monf. de la Fayette, at Metz ; Lieu
tenant Generals de Wittgenstein and
<le Bellemont, at Metz ; Crillon,
jun. at Nancy ; Paiquet, at Thion
vtlle ; Defranc, at Luneville. Four
teen Camp Marchals in the before
mentioned places.
Army of Luckiier, comprehending
t' le filth and seventh divlfions. Monf.
Luckner, at Strasbourg ; Lieutenant
General de Gell, at Strasbourg ; La
Molier, at Befancon : De Cuftine,
Kellerman, at Landau. Eleven Camp
Marechals at the above mentioned
places. j
HOUSE OF LORDS MAY 11.
LIBEL BILL.
The opinions of the Judges 011 the
questions referred to them by the
House 011 the Libel Bill, were this
day delivered ; in which the Judges,
(excepting Lord Loughborough) were
unanimous, that innuendoes were
matter of law ; and that the truth of
a libel was not to be admitted to ad
vance in his defence the plea of liis
having been in sport.
On the motion of Lord Camden
the opinions of the Judges was or
dered to be printed.
[From a Paris Paper of May i 7.]
ExtraCl of a later from the- Camp ef
Tiercelet, (a camp oj one of the divi-
Jions of Lafayette's army) dated May
4. '791.
The imagination of modern men
cannot conceive the fttuation of af
fairs here now. It i s no longer of
want of difcipiine that we should com
plain—that word does not convey the
r e - a ", e , 3re in the l»ftftageof po
litical dillolution. If what befei M.
Theobald Dillon, and the Austrian
pntoners, is not fufficientto convince
you, behold an army, in cool blood
and without a shadow of teafon, at
tempting to hang their General in
the centre of the camp, who owes
his life to the grenadier company of
the regiment of Armagnac.
"Observe at the fame time M. O
berlin, Lt Col. ofHufl'ars, attempted
to be murdered by the discharge of
?o° mufquets.* Observe a private of
the National Guards, about to be pro
claimed commander in chief of this
army. This rebellion is quelled ; but
the principle that led to it are work
ing, and the very firft opportunity
they will again shew themselves. M
de Ricce, convinced that his talents
and patnotifin are unequal to the task
of commanding under such circum
rhr"Mr'-a aS r nt hisrres i na »on to
he Mimfter of War. It is probable
deCrillon ind de Whiinp
50
fcn, will also retire, having bee:
witnefles to this scene."
ROCHAMBEAU'S ARMY.
From Valencieunes, May 11.
M. le Marechal de Rorhainbeau is
informed, only through the medium
of the public prints, that his resigna
tion has been accepted by the King,
and that M. Marechal Luckner is to
fm;ceed him. No official dispatch has
yet reached him on this head, fothat
his whole army, who love him, and
whose confidence he perfectly com
mands, are in a (tate of anxious ex
pectation. It cannot be said that the
general partakes of this anxiety ; his
care and activity, though on the eve
of retiring, are,if any thing,encreaf
ed. His fuccell'or cannoL proceed
more wiiely, prudently and vigorous
ly. Yet the enemy informed of our
divisions, of the affronts the General
has met with, and of the discontent
(hewn by part of the troops, appear
disposed to bear hard on the northern
army. A body of jy or 18,000 men
[is collected on this fide of- Mons. Ge
neral Bender and Prince Saxe-Tef
chen are to command it. They now
and then venture to make trifling in
cursions into our territory ; but the
cordon of our troops has conltantly
driven them back, with loss 011 their
fide.
M. de Noailles commands this cor
don, which is composed of three re
giments of Chafleurs, on horseback,
one of huzars ot Ellerhazy, and of a
lew companies of grenadiers of the
line and national troops. They are
perfectly well disciplined, (hew the
greatest zeal and incredible atftivity.
1 he remainder of the troops are anx
ious to retrieve their character.
RIOTS AT BIRMINGHAM
! May 20. Some weeks ago, a private
of the regiment of Blues went to a
house of ill-fame in this town, when
on some dispute, one Busby (truck
the soldier so violent a blow on the
head with a glass bottle, that being
moved to Coventry, after a few days
he died. A Coroner's inquell was
taken ; and in consequence of the
verdidl, the Coroner's warrant came
here, and Sulby and others prelent
at the conflict were committed to
gaol. The populace were determin
ed to take vengeance on every house
of a like description in the town.
1 his is the origin of the riots at
Birmingham, which rose to such a
height as to produce the interposition
of the military, but not till a number
of houses were gutted of their con
tens.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, May 3
Repulse of the trench jrow Tournay.
The ininifcer at war gave the sol-
owing account
A detachinenc from thegarrifon of
Lille, inarched on the ISth ot April
in the evening to attack Tournay.
This detachment met the enemy at
about three leagues distance from
the city, and the following is the
melancholy issue of the combat, ac
cording to the account given of it in
'he letter of M. Chaumont, adjutant
general to M. Rochambeau.
Copy of the letter of M. Chaumont, adju
tant general, dated Lifli, April 29,
1 at eleven o'clock iu the forenoon.
" M. Dillon's troops are chafed
into Lisle in the mod dreadful con
fulion ; half the men and horses dead
and disabled 011 the road by faiigue
and vvotinds. M Daumont is mount-
mg his Jiorfe to colleifl what remains
of the second battalion and national
guards he can, to prevent the enemy
from pursuing, even to the Place
Arincs. 1 here is a cry of treachery.
I am the victim of their bafecal uninies.
(A true, copy)
" Marshal Rochambeau."
The verbal leportof an officer feni
to M. Rochambeau, computes the
loss at from 260 to men, killed
or wounded. Such is the unfortun
ate event which the enemies of the
conltitudon will not fail to exagger
at e. It is, however, one of those
v Inch we muff expeJt ; f or war is
out a tiflue of miscarriage and success,
and it is in the hour of defeat, that
courage should be moil conspicuous.
iiut there are misfortunes which we
may forefee, of which ihe danger is
and the consequence would be
;ne difi'olution of the public force,
if the assembly should not haffen by
firmelt measures, to provide a
remedy.
Hewn a, much zJJ JJ
as attachment to the 7 lce >
constitution. met death lil °
which ought to have p^efodt' 7
retreat, and that he fell b* ,lfl h !'
of those for whom andwifh Ik"
had jult been fishtino T, - o ' n he
indignation)
cruel event by a note fr oln rIl ®
ta.it general, whom I sentf ent t0 m' Ti
Rochambeau, andby.J,, letter O fM
Daumont to that general „f u- /
the following are copies ''
i< 1 11 r Par ' s > April 30
I address to the Minister «.», r
he copy of a letter, w hicl, Marftaj
Rochambeau received f, 0m M
niont,at one this mornincr j u (} 3 , >
This etter was brought by an
officer of the regiment of Chafleur,
of Languedoc, who had the gre a t est
difficulty in gett.ng outof Lisle . and
who added verbally that M. Theo
bald Dillon, marechal de lamp had
been maflacred in a barn, to which
he fled for shelter from an inforrecli
on that had broke out among the
the troops during their flight I that
M. Chaumont his aid-de-camp, bro
ther to the adjutant-general, M. Ber
ihois, an officer of engineers, a Core
and several Tyrolefe Chafleurs, tak'
en prisoners, had been hanged at
Lisle, (a burst of indignation from all
parts of the hall) that at the time of
his departure the infurretfjon waj,
(till very strong.
" The highest praifesare bellowed
on the Chafleurs, formerly Langue
doc, for their condudt both in the ac
tion and during the infurreftion.
" The Adju. General of the army."
Copy of a letter from M. Daumontto
niarflial Rochambeau, received at
Valenciennes, April 30th, at one
in the morning.
" M. LE MARECHAL,
" M. Chaumont has already gi'fn
you an account of the diftaftroiue
vent of this morning; all is btfe i«
the most cruel fermentation i lam
[making every exertion to reftoretnw;
<juility, i;iay I have the good fortune
to succeed.
" M. Berthois is dead. We have -
not yet an exatft account of our real %
loss in men and horses. The battali
ons and squadrons are {o fatigued,
hat it will be impolfible for them to
(et out to moi row to rejoin you, or
perhaps even the day after. Send
nie orders to diredl mv conduit. If
my Urength and my knowledge wtre
equal to my patriotism, I might per
haps be of fervjee ; but unfortunate
ly zeal is not enough in such a crilis
as the present. I am with refpeft,
&c. &c. 1 learn that Dillon is dead.
A true copy of the letter commu
nicated to me by Marshal Rocliam-
beau. (Signed) alex berthei*.
Repulje of the French f rom M""-
Valenciennes, April jo'' l '
" War having been declared againit
the King of Hungary, the French mi
nistry thought: it advifeable to order
different bodies of troops to tnttrt''
low countries—one forming the a
vanced guard of about jo,ooo » e "i
under the command of Lieniej l3ll '
General Biron, was ro present Il,e '
before Mons, in order to found 1 s
dispositions of the Austrian soldiers,
and the inhabitants of 'he coniitr?-
A body of cavalry, confining of te "
squadrons, commanded by M.
bald Dillon, Marechal de Camp, w
directed to march at the lame tiro
for Tournay, M. Carl was to marc
with a detachment of 1200 " )en ,j.
Fumes. The object of all th
movements was to divide the enemy
forces. Valenciennes was the p
of rendezvous for the troops
Marshal Rochan.beau was to a
from the garrisons, to '"P^. 0
second line, the body under * •
The difritter that befel M. DJ
having obliged the body o
to return to Lisle, difconcei iec o
neral plan. . ,0n
< M. 13iron left
the 28th in the morning, tooK p Jjf
Son of Quicvrain in the even, g,
lodged the Anftrians fro" 1 , ffee n
polts which they occupie t .
jQuievrain and Mods, a ." ed ° w i t hin »
vening of the 29th, ari ]t
short tlillance of the town. . JB
was that he differed the
army on the he'ghts, in
4,cons position, and appearing to be much more
tonfiderable than he had realon to expert.
From these circumstances he infeired that
the enemy had been fufficiently apprized ot his
def.*n, to enable them to prepare for defence.
He however passed the night in fight of the ene
my, having taken care in the evening to ac
quaint Marlhal Rochambeau of his htuatton
His army Teemed to be in the belt poflible dis
position, when all of a sudden he was intprmed
that a part of the Queen's regiment was re
treating. He flew after them alone, and iuc
ceeded in bringing them back, but found the
army on his return in the greatest alarm and
agitation. The fugitives had given out, on
commencing their retreat, that the genera! was
cone over to the enemy. Ihe diiorder which I
this falfe report had spread generally through
the army, did not escape the notice of the Aul
trian troops ; they attacked ; and although M.
Biron could not reltore order entirely, he con
duced his retreat with so much judgment and
firmnefs, that although pursued for more than
ur leagues, it was impoflible for the enemy
to cut him oft. .
He then resolved to gain the position whicn
he occupied in the evening above guievrain.
The post was already occupied by the Auftrians
—with a single battalion he diilodged the Hul
lans, and took possession of it : but a reinforce
ment was neceilary to maintain it. He ran
himfelf to bring up a feeond battalion and two
piece? of cannot; but either owing to mistake
occasioned by clouds ot dust, which made some
bodies of our troops fire on each other, while
parties of Hullans were keeping up a warm dii
charge upon them ; or to the reft of the army
colle&ed in the woods to takebreath, being ex-
haufted by hunger and fatigue, he found it im
poflible to effect his purpole.
All our troops then fell back to Valenciennes.
Our loss cannot yet be ascertained. It is
however probable that the loss ot the enemy is
more conliderable than ours.
The second battalion of national volunteers
of Paris and the hufTars of did parti-
cular execution among the Huljans. Fhefe
two corps by their ardour, their lirmnefs, their
courage, and above all by their discipline, gave
an example, that if followed by the reft ot tne
troops, especially the sth and 6th regiments of
dragoons, would have insured the success of the
expedition.
The greater part of the baggage and artil-
lery was saved.
Marshal Rochambeau, to cover their entrance
into the town, advanced with three regiments
up the heights of the hill and under the guns
of the place. At eight in the evening he was
fired on by some detached parties of Auftrians
that were fcowering the plain.
M. Biron was the last man of his army that
entered Valenciennes. He immediately re
paired to the mpuicipaiity to aflure them that the
town was in no danger. He received testimo
nies of esteem and afte&ion both from the citi
zens and the soldiers.
The Leyden Gazette states, that an engage
ment took place between tie French and the
Adftrians towards Furnes, from which the lat
ter, after the loss of a tew men, retreated, but
it does not appear whether the account refers
to either of the defeats above mentioned, or to
a third of the detachment of 1200 men, expected
to march agalnft Furnes under JVI. (.arl.
TheMinifteratWar has renewed his demand
that the AlTembly ftiould make the mod efie&u
al provision for the maintenance oi order. He
said, that when it was determined to make
war, it was resolved in council to penetrate in
to Brabant.
1. That the war might be withdrawn from
a frontier but leagues trom Paris.
2. To prevent the aflfembling of the force of
the enemy, and to aift before they had made
their plans of operation, fixed t'eir magazines,
and taken their ground.
3. To second the ardour of the troops who
were eager to make their attack.
4. To profit from the dispositions of the peo
ple of Brabant, who according to report were
anxious to iecond us ; and to chafe from the
frontiers the troops that had forced us to arm.
This was chiefly the ground upon which the
ministers determined unanimously to make the
attack. Though the troops indeed wanted ma- ,
ny Ox their stores, it was not thought right to;
retard them in their march ; and it was thought
at the fame time, that £he want of discipline,
so necessary to regular a&ion, was not an ob
stacle that ought to Hop their motions, a<-, it it
were true that the country y/as dilfatished, dis
cipline was not necelfary to their success. The
fame argument applied to the want of know
ledge of the troops, and to want of experience
in some of the generals, as a regular war was
not the, object. The movements of the army
of M. Luckner were to be merely defenfive,
because that frontier is opposite to States with
whom we are not at war. The army of M. la
Fayette was to be detached towards Givet,
and the General himfelf to attack Namur, in
concert with M. de R.ochambeau. M. Dillon,
in whose detachment there appeared the fame
disorder as in that of M. de Biron, and ol which
he became the unhappy victim, was ordered
only to make a falfe attack uport Tournay. j
He"ought not to have had infantry, and his in
ftru<stions were not to risk an engagement. He
has apparently been forced to depart from his
orders, in taking battalions who did not know
the danger of their inconsiderate zeal, or who,
perhaps were excited by traitors* seduced by
the enemy, to cry out treason, and to put the
army into disorder.
Extract of a Utter from Stockholm, April 20.
" The day before vefterday the followidg sen
tence was passed on Ankarftrom :
"That he is adjudged infamous, and un
worthy the rights of a citizen.
" That he fhallbe put into the pillory for two
hours in the forenoon, on three successive days,
and be whipt with fix pair of rods.
" That his head lhall be fevered from his
body, his right hand cut off, and his thus muti-
body Ciail be impelled, and an infeription
to be placed on the pillory as follows :—johan
Jacob Ankerftrom, Atfalfin of the King.
" He was piliored and whipped yesterday foi
the firlt time.
" The Duke Regent has given his propert)
to his children, who are to change their names,
tho' it was forfeited to the state by the laws.'
Extract ttf a letter jron Paris, April 3
" The French revolution will make cow
ards of mankind : for where is the people how
ever galled by the yoke of oppression, that will
dare leek for the redress of grievances, for fear
of fubllituting worie in their Head ?
" The duke de Chartres, though only in his
19th yea'-, is already a major-general.
" Condorcet is loling all the virtuous friends
he had ; h'l3 insolent treatment of the King and
Queen, when he mentions them in his journal,
is the chief caui'e.
" Mr.Cliodieir, who the well-informed prints
of London killed, is alive and merry. Mon
sieur Couvion delpii'ed him too much to call
him to the field. ' .
"The gentlemen attached to the French
Legation, have been lately treated with the
utmost contempt at Liege : and the Prince
Bifliop seemed to countenance the insult.
" The Swiss Regiment of Ernest is marching
through Savoy into Switzerland ; the Colonel,
having previously lent back to Court the red
ribband, which the King of France had confer
red 011 him, as a teftimonv of his fatisfa&ion at
his generous conduct. Agreeable to treaty, the
SwiTs Cantons have collectively written to the
different regiments of their country in the pay
of France, not to concur in an attack on the
German Empire. Thus do the Jacobins lose
15,000 well-difcipiined fighting men."
GE ORGE-T OWN, July 7-
FEDERAL BRIDGE PROCESSION.
On the fourth initant, being the anniversary
of American Independence, the artiftsand work
men concerned in erecting the Federal Bridge
over Rock Creek in this diftrift, met in pro
caffion at Mr. Sutcr's Fountain Inn, in this
citV, from whence they conducted the commif
fioiiers of the federal buildings, accompanied by
Major Ellicott, aad a number of the refpe sta
ble'citizens of this place, to the eastern abutment
of the bridge, where the ceremony of laying the
corner stone was performed by the gentlemen
commiflioners, in due form, and a discourse de
livered by Mr. William H. Ker. During the
performance of the ceremony the following
toalts were drank, and a gun fired to each re
fpe&ively— after which the company returned
in the fame order of proce.Tion to Mr. Suter's,
where the remainder of the day was spent as the
occasion merited.
ORDER OF PROCESSION.
Major EUicott, geographer-general for the
United States, and the flag-bearer,
(preceded by mu(ic) in front.
Fifteen gentlemen, (including Major Ellicott)
reprelenting the fifteen United States.
The Commifiioners —|. Johufon, D. Carroll, and
D. Stewart, Esquires.
The Treasurer and Secretaries of the Federal
Buildings.
The artists and workmen concerned in eredling
the Federal Bridge, preceded by Mr
Leonard Harbaugh, &:c.
The ceremony of laying the stone was per
formed by fir ft spreading the mortar —placing
the stone—leveling it—-and fettling it by three
strokes with a hammer, in the name of the Na
tion, the Law, and the President; after which
the following toast was drank by the gentlemen
commiflioners, viz.
May the Union of America be as strong as an
arch supported by the (pillars of justice and equal
j liberty—and the City of Washington become
the key-stone.
The following Toasts were drank by the Fif
teen Gentlemen representing the United States,
1. The United States.
2. The President of the United States.
3. The Vice-Preiideot of the United States.
4. The territory of Columbia.
5. The city of Washington.
6. The agricultural intercft of our country.
7. Arts and manufactures.
8. The commerce of the United States.
9. The liberty of the press—may it never be
infringed by the sons of Columbia.
10. May the mechanics of our country con
tinue to support that rank in society to which
they are entitled from their ufefulnefs.
11. May the inhabitants of the city of Wash
ington be deeply imprefled with those manh
sentiments of freedom which gave rife to the
declaration of independence.
12. May the citizens of Columbia be distin
guished by their attention to those acts which
dignify human nature
13. May the honored name of Washington,
with which this city is dignified, ever protea
its inhabitants from the insolent airs of aristo
cracy.
14. The French patriots—may their enemie
van ifh like vapour before the rising fun of liberty.
15. May the minds of the unhappy savages of
America be disposed to cultivate the arts of
peace, and form a lasting union with the United
States.
N E W-Y OR K, July 11
Yesterday arrived in this City the Honorable
JOHN JAY, (Bhief Justice of the United State?,
from t'ne Eastern Circuit. A large number of
the Friends to Liberty having heard of his ap
proach, determined to (hew their refpeft for
the man to whom the people of this state at the
late election for governor gave a majority of
votes; they accordingly went out and met Mr-
Jay at Mandevill's tavern, from whence he
was attended by a large concourse of citizens
on horseback and in carriages to ttfsvn. On his
entering the city he was saluted by a discharge
of artillery, the ringing of the bells, and the uni
versal inclinations of the citizens, who con
ducted him amidst repeated plaudits to bis house
in Broadway.
51
Philadelphia, July 14.
oj further F.urvpetrn Intelligence.
ANOTIIEI! pretender to the thrdne of Mo
rocco has made his appearance ; his name
is Muly Abderhaman ; he is from the coast of
G/inea, and his party is already considerable.
The patriots of Ireland are forming alfociations
in various parts of the kingdom, by the fcile of
" Society's of United Iriflimcn many lpi
ritecl publication': in the form of resolutions and
adurefles hive been illu'ed from the press and
are in circulation. M. Dillon was in the lixty
fourth year of his age, and fortieth of his mili
tary service.—The French manifefto drawn up
by M. Condorcet, in consequence of the war,
difc'aims plunder, maiTacre, and acquisition of
territory ; iw letters of marque, are to be
granted—and if the creatures of their enemy are
taken in the ast of piracy they are to be punifli
ed according to law ; it fays further u That;
the brave men who may quit the ranks of infamy, j
to join the animated ar my of the free, lhall be ho
nored, chei'ilhed and rewarded. A magazine
has blown up in Marseilles, containing a consi
derable quantity of ammunition and military
stores —a body of national artillery on guard,
near the spot, almost all pei'iflied—what occa
sioned this accident is not known. An article
under the Paris head of April 30, fays, the Au
ltrun soldiers are deserting the colours of patri
otilin, and that a company of grenadiers have
come over to the northern army. M. Biron
in his letter to the Minister of war, fays, " I
| ought to tell you, that I found the country en
tirely declared against us; not one patriot gave
us intelligence, not one joined us, not one de
serter came in." M. Rochambeau in his letter
to the King imputes the misfortunes of the ar
my tp the contrary counsels, and inftru&ions
of the French minittry ; the campaign he fays
111 consequence of these positive in.lirm'tions
was brought on fifteen days sooner than was at
firft intended ; be fays his representations to
the miniftsrs have not been attended to for one
moment, nor the information he gave on the
fubjeift of not feeing-any disposition on the part
!of the Austrian troops to come over to the
French. He fays that after the repeated and
contradictory melTages which he has received
from the council, he entreats his majesty to ac-
ccpt of his resignation—still profefimg hisat
attachment to his country, and his determina
tion to defend the State against all its enemies,
according to the oath he had taken.
Pari 1 , by the lafl: accounts was quiet, notwith
standing many infamous attempts to excite the
people to outrage.
The news of the atrocities committed at
Lifie made a much deeper impression than the
defeat of the army ; but there were said not to
be lb bad as at firft represented, particularly no
Austrian prifuners were maflacred. M. de Bi
ron mentions in handsome terms the behavior
of the two sons of M. d'Orleans who were vo
lunteers in the army, and in the late attions.
Several letters were read in the National
Assembly from the municipality of Valencien-j
nes, dated.May 4 and 6, setting forth what
they con9eiyed to be the causes of the late mif
fortues,'that the army was now fully sensible of
their error in distrusting M. Rochambeau, and
that they desired nothing more earnestly than
his continuing to command them, to give them
an opportunity of atoning for the injustice they
had done him.
M. Prouveur moved a representation to the
King to continue M. Rochambeau in the com
mand. This motion was opposed as unconsti
tutional; and it was proposed to vote, that M.
Rochambeau had continued to deserve the con
j fidence of the National Assembly. After some
j debate.on the form, it was carried in the fol
lowing terms :
The National AfTembly having heard a letter
read from the municipality of Valenciennes,
the confidence which the citizens
and the army have profelTed in M.Rochambeau,
resolves that mention shall be made in the mi
nutes, of the fatisfaftion with which the read
ing of this letter was heard by the AlTembly,
and palled to the order of the day.
At the opening of each fitting, since the de
claration of the war, a number of patriotic
gifts have been received.
An attempt it feeras has been made to burn
the house of commons and would have succeed
ed in a few minutes more, had not a ditcovery
prevented ; an old pair of breeches containing
combuitibles, on fire and part was
found in a small cloi'et, a hole was made in the
deling above the fire ; no further discoveries
had been made.
By accounts from the State of New-York it
appear?, .that Mr. Jay lias received the most
flattering testimonials of the refpeft and at
tachment of the citizens of Lanfingburg, Al
bany, Hudson and other places, during a tour
through the upper counties of that State.
Accounts from South-Carolina and Georgia,
are very unfavorable with refpeft to their
crops ; no rains of any consequence having
fallen in the more eaitern diftrifts of those
States fmce April.
Wednefdav last the President of the United
States and his Lady, left this city, on a tour to
Mount Vernon.
Mr. Secretary Lear and family, are gone on
a visit to Portsmouth New-Hampftiire. "
Accounts from all parts of the United States
inform of the celebration of the anniversary ol
independence, with that sentiment, social union
and pleasure, which have heretofore diftin
guifi.ed the commemoration of that glorious
event.
The Legiflaftire of New-Hampflrire ! have
ehofen Samuel Livermore, Esq. a Senator of
the Utiited States, in the roam of JPaine Win-,
gate, Esq. whose time expires in March n«Kt.
The last Monday in Auguftnext, the ele&ors
of President and Vice-Prefroent, and four
Representatives in Congieis are to be cho&n
in that State. , . *
Capt. Fleming, from H ivre-de-Grace,brings
a confirmation ox' the news received by the
York Pilot Boat and Sl ip Olive Bra:.ch.
repulse of the French from Mons and Tournay-
The murder of Dillon with its aggravating cir
cumstances. Rochambeau had certainly rc
figned. A report, however, was current, that
he had been prevailed upon to relume the com
mand. The patriots did not appear dispirited*
Paris, Havre and the neighboring country were
in a flat® of perfect tranquility at the date of
these accounts. Capt. Fleming brings no news
[ later than that alreadv received.
The Pmlbuigh Gazette by Ycftcrday's Mail
contains nothing new.
The fire works intended to have been exhibited
on the 4th inft. are, we hear, to be displayed this
evening, in honor of the anniverfa>y ot the Rcva
lation ot France.
ga~ l J rice uj Stocks us in our lafl
WANTED—TO RENT,
rr A convenient House, in or near the centre of
the City.—Enquire ojthe Editor.
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA
Juke 28, 1792.
PU RSUANT to the last Will «ind Testament of
the late Rev. Alexander Williamson,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurt
day, the nth of October next, atG£ORGETOWN,
on a crcdit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved security, to bear intercft from
the date—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation of the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatest part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very considerable
quantity cl fine meadow ; —Situated about 6 miles
from the Federal City,and the fame distance from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy part of the country.
The improvements are, a very elegant two story
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
palTage, or entry, on a floor) and the neceifary out
houses. HENRY TOWNSEND,}
BENJ. STODDERT, } Executors.
(VptO) THOMAS JOHNS, )
TERRITORY OF COLUMBIA.
JULY 6, 1792.
THE Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-Seat on
Rock Creek, deemed by those who have ex
mined it. equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-Home may be placed v, ithin one quarter of
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile from
the market house in Georgetown, and one mile
from the President's fquaie, in the city of Wash
ington—on tide water, navigable for vefTels ot se
veral hundred bushels burthen.—The stream is
fufficient,the year round,to turn four pair ot stones,
and the fall may be made from 25 to 30 feet. It
is tinneceirary to dwell on the advantages of such
a situation.
The purchaser may be accommodated with a
lew" hundred acres of land adjoining the Mill-Seat,
it thai should he an object,
(ep 3 m , 4 jul)
THE Partneifhipof HAZARD & ADDOMS,
is dillolved ; —All perforis having demands
on that FIRM, a«edefired to call for iettlement,
upon EBENEZER HAZARD, at No. 128, North
Second-Street—and those indebted to it are re
quested to make immediate payment to him.
KBENEZER HAZARD,
JONAS AT rOMS.
Philadelphia, July 10, 1792. (tf)
To be publiftied by Subscription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old &on^rcjj-j,
f V
From their fiift M cting in September 1774, t(
their final DifTolution in March 1789 :
COMPRISING, at full length, evejy impor
tant resolution, order, address, declaration,
See. contained in the thirteen volumes of their
journals—a concise summary of the less interesting
parts—an alphabetical lift of appointments, pro
motions, and resignations—a colle&ive view of the
public expenditures, See. &c.—the whole intended
to serve as a fatislaftory fubftilute for the original
journals, which are now out of print, and of which
the entire fubflance, un-incumbered with official
formalities and repetitions, will here be given in
about one fourth of their present bulk—accompa
nicd with one complete general Index :
To which zvi/l be added>
A copious and valuable colledlion of original
diode ,
the records and files of Congress.
Containing (either verbatim, or in abftiaft, as
the cases may severally require) such intenfting
pieces referred to in the journals, as may with pro
priety be permitted to be made public, viz. Letters
from the different officers employed in the public
service during the late war—intercepted letters of
the enemy—communications from governors, (late
iegiflatures, conventions, and committees—dis
patches from agents and commiflioners—inflec
tions—reports of committees of Congress—and
various authentic documents, tending to throw a
light on the important events, to which America,
owes her present independence.
In the courfc of the work, will be introduced
in their proper places, such partfrfcf the
c/ecr-ct jfourmalt
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies are fubferibed for, the
woik will be put to press—to be delivered to fub
fenbers in numbers of 304 odavo pages each, at
onedoilar, in blue boards.. The fubfeription
money will not be required, for the firft number, un
til the publication is begun ; and on the delivery
of each number, half a dollar will beexpefted in
advance tor the succeeding one. To non-iubferir
hers, the price will be raised.
Suhfci iptions will be received by ihe principal
! ook-lelleis throughout the Union, and by th»
Editor, JOHN CAREY.
No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
i he
B. STODDERT.THE CONSPIRACY OF KINGS.
Bv JOEL BARLOW, ESSUIRE.
(CONC L UDID.)
A NDdidftihou hope, by thy infuriate quill
JTx. To rouse mankind the bloo 1 ot realms 10 spill ?
Then to restore, on death devoted plains,
Their scourge to tyrants, arid to man his chains ?
To swell their fouls with thy own bigot rage,
And blot the glories of so bright an age ?
Firll stretch thy arm, and, with lels impious might,
Wipe out the itars, and quench the solar light :
" For hcav'n and earth" the voice of God ordains,
" Shallpafs andpcri/h, but my word remains."
Th' eternal Word, which gave, iu spite of thee,
Re ason to man, that bids the man be free.
Thou couldfl not hope : 'twas Heav'n's returning grace,
In kind compaflion toourinjur'd race,
Which ftript that loul, ere it fliould flee trora hence,
Of the last garb of decency or sense,
Left thee us own foul honors to display,
In all the blackness of its native day,
To fink at last, from earth's glad futface hurl'd,
7 he fordid iov'reign of the ietter'd world.
n some fad hour, ere death's dim t rrors spread,
Ere leas of dark oblivion whelm thy head,
Rvflcft, 101 l man,— II thole, thy kindred knaves,
O'er the broad Rhine whose il<ig rebellious waves.
Once draw the sword ; , burning point lhall biinj
ro ihy quick ncrvrs r« :i vcr.ending firing ;
The blood they ihed thy weight ot wo shall fweii,
And their grim ghofls 'orever with thee dwell.
Learn hence, ye tyrants, ere ye learn too late,
O. all your a alt tlf inevitable fare.
Tlie hour is come, the world's unclosing eyes
Dilcern with rapture where its wiidom lies ;
Jrom western heav'ns th' inverted Orient springs,
The mom of man, the dreadful night of kings.
Dim, like the day-fliuck owl, ye grope in light.
No arm for combat, no resource in flight ; H
If on your guards your lingering hopes repose,
\ our guari.s are men, and men you've niude your foes ;
If to your rocky ramparts ye repair,
De Launay's iate can tell your fortune there.
-No turn, no fliift, no courtly aits avail,
Each mask is broken, all iiluhons fail;
Driv'n to your last retreat ot fharne ana fear,
One counsel waits you, one relief is near :
Ry worth internal, rife to felf-wrought fame,
i cur equal rank, your human kindred claim ;
' Tis Reason's choice, 'tis Wisdom's final plan,
To drop the monarch and cfiumethe man.
Hail Alan, exalted title ! firft and best,
On God's own image by his hand imprest ;
I o which at last the reas'ning race is driv'n,
And leeks anew what firfl it gain'd from Heav'n.
OMan, my brother, how the coidial flame
Of all endearments kindles at the name !
In every clime, thy visage greets my eyes,
In every tongue, th) kindred accents rife ;
1 he thought expanding swells my h art with glee,
It finds a 11 iend, and loves itlelf in thee.
Savthcn, fraternal family divine,
\l hom mutual wants and mutual aids combine,
Say from w hat source the dire delusion iofi,
That fouls like ours were ever made for foes ;
Why earth's maternal bosom, where we tread,
'l o rear our matificns and receive our bread,
Should blush so often for the race (he bore,
So long be drench'd with floods of filial gore ;
Why to fpiall realms tor ever reft confin'd
Our great affections, meant for ail mankind ?
7hough climes divide us, (hall the ftrcam or sea
1 hat forms a barrier 'twixt my friend me,
Infpirethe wish his peaceful ftateto mar,
And meet iiis falchion in the ranks of war ?
Nut seas, nor climes, nor wild ambition's fire
In nations minds could e'er the wi(h inspire ;
' , " e c< 3 u sl rights each sober voice {hould guide,
No blood would {lain them, and no war divide.
'Tis dark deception, 'tis the glare of state,
Man funk in titles, loft in Small and Great •
'Tis Kant, Didintlion, all the hell that fprin'gs
'hole prolific monitors, Courts and Kings.
In tL arc the vampires nurs'd on nature's spoils ;
For thrfe with pangs the (tarving peasant toils,
ror the(e the earth's broad furface teems with grain,
1 heirs the dread labours of the devious main ;
And when the wafted world but dares retuie
The gifts opprt dive and extorted dues,
J hey bid wild (laughter spread the goiy plains,
T "e: htc-blood gushing from a thousand veins,
it their thrones amid the f.<nguine flood,
Aud dip their purple in the nation's blood
1 he gazing crowd, of glittering State as, aia,
Adore the Power their coward ineannefs made •
in war's snort interval, while regal (hows
Still blind their rcafon and insult their woes
V. hat (liange events for proud proceflions call !
See kingdoms crowding to a Birthright Ball I
See the long pomp in gorgeous glare difplay'd,
The utifcl d guards, the fyuad.on'd horse parade :
. ce herald s g»y, with emblems on their vest,
In iiffu d robes, tall, beauteous pages dr»(l •
Amid fupenor ranks ot fplcndid (laves
.ords. Drikesand Princes, titulary knaves,
C onlus Liy (hine their croiTcs, gems and stars.
Sceptres and globes aud crowns and spoils ot wars
On gildrd orbs fee thundering chaiiots loll'd,
eeds, snort in-; fire, and champing bits of pold,
Piance to the trumpet's voice, while each affutr.es
A .ufncrgait, a „d l,f ts his ncck of p , umcs
His h on a moving throne, and near the van
The tyrant rides, the chosen scourge of man •
Clanonsaiid (lutes and drums his lay prepare
And (homing millions rend the troubled art •
Millions, whose ce.fclefs toilsthe p<„ np sustain,
hose hour "Pays an age of patn.
Toihee O T*'> ''T ° rders - S! "« »»d Kings,
»?.,?■? an ' ! r »v heart rebounding fpr.n-5
cho d tl, afcendtng bhfs lhat waits your call °
Heav'n s own bequest, lhe hcrit of > a| ,
Awake to wisdom, f e i zc the prizc .
from dude to light, from gticf to glory rife'
jr" n 7" V last > w ' lh R"f„n in her train,
W ll"'?" h " cve reign ;
See Gallia s sons, so late the tyrant's (port
W " a " d fyC °P hants « court,
Start into men ex p and lhcir wcll . t ht mind
Lords ofthemfclve, and leaders of mankind. '
On equal rightstheir base of empire lies,
On wal s of Wisdom fee the ftruftu.enfe ;
ALo^IM/ 51 ? 8 WO ' ld " low " s
A mode I d form for each Wounding clnnc
To ufeful to,ls they bend their noblefUirT
patllot Vlev>s iDs ! mor»l views the fame,
-.01
Her Majesty has decorated Major-General Ri
bas with the Order of St. Alexander, and Lieu
tenant Generals Prince de Wolkcnikoi, and M.
de Kutufchow, with that of St. George ofithe
second class—All the officers who diitinguffhed
themselves at the taking of Maczin have been
promoted, or have obtained other marks of tlif
tindHon. The officers who exerted themselves
at the capture of Ifmail will also (hortly be re
compensed by their sovereign. The fuccefsful
negociations of Major-General de Pahlen at the
court of Stockholm have been rewarded with the
government of Riga. M. de Subow, who was
Aid-de-Camp to the Empress, has been created
Aid-de-Camp General, with the rank of Lieute
nant General. M. de Trofizinlky, who aifted as
Secretary to Count Befborodko, has been creat
ed a knight of St. Woldimir of the third class.
As to foreign affairs, our Court, without doubt,
has a private interest in tbe state of affairs, both
of trance and Poland, but has not yet evinced a
disposition to take an adtive part in them, except
by a supply of money, of which the French Prin
ces at Coblentz have been furnifhed with the se
veral considerable funis from Banking houses an
Amsterdam.
M A T H E \V CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. AMERICAN MUSEUM, f,om it, commencement in Tanu
a i dry 1787, to December 1791, in ten vols. Puce, ncatiy
bound and lettered, sixteen dollars.
This work, which is now conduaed on an imDrovcd plan, con
taining the bed pieces publilhcd for and against the proceeding
of government, will be found to contain at lea a as great a vanciv
o poht.cal, agricultural, and miscellaneous effa) s, as any ever pub
li hed in America. Perhaps in no one work are io many valuable
documents jefpefting the history of this country, coUeftcd tu»e.
ther. His Excellency the President of the United States, has de
clared o( it, that » a more ufclul literary plan has never been un
dertaken in America, nor one more defervingof public encou
ragement." The f.ibfcription is two dollar, fnd
Gentlemen in the country who with 10 be fupphed with this
Thf rv e<lue l gIVC comm ifi» on to friends in the city to
fub.cnbe for and receive if- Any of the back numbers may
be had in order to complete fcts.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mis, More's Essays
Gregoiy i Legacy, Lady Pennington's Advice, Marchionels of
Lambeu s Advice, Swift's Letter to a newly married Lcdv Mr.
f ncl°6/6 ° n C ° mma " d °' Tem P cr ' More ' s 'or the Ladies]
3. Smith. History of New-York, from its firft settlement to
the year 1732 lo which is annexed, a description ot the coun
try, with a Ihort account ot ihe inhabitants, their religious and
political Hate, and the cgnftUutian of the courts ot julttcf p ' '
a dollar and a quarter. * nee
4* Elements of Moral Science, by Tames Beattip » r
Aberdeen™ o ?'' ph ' | ' ofo P h >' and lo S ,c ln 'he Mar.'iehal Collet
r ,c perUous, or
delphia • IllSim ' odUCCd ,nlo thc in Phiia-
6. liiuii's Sermons, containing the wholr of i
Ot the Bii,.n, in two—Price two dollar! " Vo ' UmeS
Pnce sou," nPO,UnCe °' Opinions.
8. Examination ot the Obfervaiions of Lord Sheffield on A-r,,.
deal Constitution, &c. Prlc< "" **
three:e"h^ S o a s , ; d n o e i r a , T CpOCtn ' 3 "< w < d —"> —.-Price
dollar. Ul ' lor> C ' la, ' cs Grandifon,abridged— Price a sixth of a
£ S°l C cS^oc,n^ e "cfl v ? h / e5 ' 1 -- Pr!ce 3 lhifd " f 2 doi '"-
Said Carjv has tor ia e Amcnca "— Pr '« a fixih of a doibr
pean as vvtli as Amrr? j ge afTortmcn ' of Books, fcuro
tnott icafonable terms""^" o"*'0"*' W '"i Ch h ° W '" dil P ole of on ">e
commands, mav depend r" j Wh ° ' aV ° r '" m wlth
lory manner. A l.be.al 1,1 the moik facUfac
for public l.branes. or L 3^^", 10 " PUld '^
Renounce war, bid conqucft cease,
luvkc r. - ji. upiiu l> and pcac. ,
1 ■' • - I '' luitice rear the youthful race,
With ftrcpgth exalt them «ind with science grace,
Till Truth's b.left banners, o'er the regions hurl'd,
Shake tyrants from their thrones, and cheer the waking worlc
In northern climes, where feudal shades of late
Cl'ill'd every heait artd jvlfied every State,
Behold, illumin'd by th' inftru£live age,
That great phenomenon, a Sceptred Sage.
There Stanislaus ui» o!ds his prudent plan,
Tears the iirong bandage from the eyes of man,
Points thr progreilive march, and fhapesthe way
That leads a realm from darkneis into day.
And deign, for once, to turn a iranfient eye
To that wide world that fkii ts'the western sky;
Hail the mild morning, where the dawn began,
The full fruition of the hopes of man ;
Where sage Expericncc fealsthe sacred cause,
And that rare union, Liberty and Laws,
Speaks to the reas'ning race, 41 to freedom rife,
Like them be equal, and like them be wife."
PETERSBURGH, April 6.
HER Majesty the Empress has never enjoyed
so good a state of health as Ihe does at pre
sent. Tranquility and content now reign through
out the Rufiian Empire, and the glorious peace
concluded with the Ottoman (Porte has occalion
ed an universal joy,
BOOKS,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
52
'NEW TEAS.
Ofthe "J f f YSO N an d SOUCHONG,
• q
between Chefnu 9 .'nd Market Str«,s.
American Lead Manufaftorv
STEPHEN AUSTIN V r
TLTAVt jult now opened their Lead W\r ' °*
X 1 00 ''
y hav * »ow made, and ready t-,r fair ,
men, of SHOT of all fi«s, w„h SHEF r and BAR LFAn T'
production ot .he Mir.es in V.rgini, As .hrv * , D> "*
number ot experienced Englifl, w0,km,,,, ,h ey w"™7 '
equal m quality to any manufacture a. .Lurupc aB(i " T ?
pi ice from the cost of impoiud. P " ' educ «l
I hey alio continue to manufacture all thr =1, • , :
Richmoiid, in V rginia. All orders addr.ffed toenhVr f'l" '
above Fabrics, will be thankfully received and . lhe ,
Ihorteft notice. ' ' cxecnicd on the
N. B. Wanted industrious, rftber, Labouring Men ,ttl,,r A
Mines, whereconilant employ, good tea >es tll,cfil(l
ments will be given,
houles for their reception. ° ov,aca > ant
for further particulars enquire of Messrs. MoiisAc.ti«ac
at their Faft.vry ,n Richmond., or as above. °'
Philadelphia, December o i-qi
J ■ j ' .f
PROPOSALS " " ;
fOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
In the Commonwealth of Ma ITachv felts
A SYSTEM far the DISCIPLINE ij
«» the UNITED STATES oj AMERICA; '
THE YOUNG ARTILLERIST'S POCKET COMPANION.
IN THK£I PARTS, 1
* rt, -C°"™ NG the duty a,,d P r ' ai « of light w
, "VV "he theory »»d pr.Sice of heavy artillery
to which will be added, an extraftof a Treatil'e on the origin ud
pi inutile of Courts-Martial, wrote by an experienced Officer in
p °i , W dld J dul r as Judge-Advocate in America.
Pure 3. Laboratory duty ; containing a great variety of direaionj
for L.mipoinion, and the method of making artificial fire-works
alid the formation of ammunition for the dificieut kinds us ord'*
nance.
By WILLIAM STEVENS, isa )
A%Officcr in the American Artillery through the who], of the* ;
late revolution, and since in the Militia.
CONDITIONS.
This work to he primed on good paper with a handsome typ<» »
neatly t,ou.,d ,nd lettered, in three pocket volumes, containing 4
upwards ot one thousand pages; iUufttated wiih a great varieiy*'!
ot explanatory plates, executed bv able ar'.iils. j
The price to I'ubfcribers, One Dollar each volume-to non-sub- '
fcril.ers, One Frentk Crotvn each volume : and those who (übfcribt
for fiv fctis, (hail have a fevenib rrati}.
■Jit's work. Hull be pubiilhedlis iooa as five hundred copiti art
fuofcribcd for.
SublcrifHioa papers will be lodged with the priDcipal Printers *
ookfeliers in the United States of America.
SOCIETY FOR ESTABLISHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
At a meeting of ihe Directors of the Society for
eitablilhing ufeful manufactures, held atfjletv- ;
ark, 011 Friday the eighteenth day of May, 1
1792, at which time was palled the following.
Supplement to an ordinance, entitled, " An or- '-y
dinaiace for fecuringjhe punctual payment of
t-he monies due on the subscriptions to the so- I'
ciety for establishing ufeful manufactures." ■ «
WHEK.EAS by the third fedion of the ordh .
nance entitled, " An ordinance for fecur
iwg the punrtaal payment of the monies due on
the subscriptions to the society for establishing .
Jlfeful manufactures," it is ordained, that it'any
Jubfcriber or his assigns, shall negledto pay the {
second, third or fourth payment of his, her or
their refpedtive fnbfcriptious, for the space of
three days after the expiration of the time limit
ed by the law of incorporation for the said pay
ments, that is to fay, the second payment, on ihe
13th day of July, 1792 : that then and in that
caje, all and every lhare or {hares, offuchperfon
oi&perfons, so negletfting to make such payment* (
as aforefaid, and the monies by them previously
paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever thereafter
veiled in the said directors and their faccefTtfts
for the common benefit of the laid society.
And whereas circumitances render it inexpe
dient to exact full payment of tlie second inftal
nient on the said thirteenth day of July nest, or
within three days thereafter.
Be it therefore ordained, by the deputy gover
nor and directors of the fotieiy for eftablKhing
ufeful manufactures, that if the faiii second pay
ment (hall be made in manner following, that is
to fay, one equal third part ihereof, 011 orbefoie
the thirteenth day of August next, one otlie. e
qual third part thereof, 011 or before the thir
teenth day of September next, and one otbei e
qual third part thereof, on or before the thir
teenth day of October next, with lawful inteielt
computed thereon from the said thirteenth day
of July next, that then and in such cale, the
penalty mentioned in the said feiftion, fii ;l " !lCt
be exacted, any thing in the said ordinance to
the contraiy notwithlfanding.
A. MERCER, Dep. Oov.
Extract from the ininutes, ,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk.
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC.)
THE SUBSCRIBER HATH OPENED A
House of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of ihc UNITED STATES.
In that commodious House lately occupied by Thomas B;a e t s
Mayor of this Town. .
He has furnifhed himfell with a flock ot the bed Liqu° rs »
will use every exertion to give falisfa&ioii by procuiiug» 1
teafon, the befl ot every fptcitsof provision, and hiving 11L J j
served up in the moil neat and elegant manner.
GLORGE H. LEIGH-
■V*