A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 56, of Vol. IV.] Wednesday, October 5, 1792.
c
PRICE CURRENT. WU. cv. diu. ct>.
Oil, Ditto pr. cafe, 2 50
Mr eoANTiry.—DoLtAßt 100 Cents each. Sweet, best, in flaiks.pr.box 10 50
PHILADELPHIA, OitoSer 3. Ditto balkets, 12 bottles 5
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48
Dlls.Cts. Dlls.Cts. Tram 24 27
ANCHORS pr. lb. 7 8 Whale 24 26
Allum, Englilh, pr.cwt. 467 Porter pr. calk, 533
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. it London, pr.doz. 1 Oo
A(hes, pot, per ton, 90 too American ditto bot.incl. 1 4 1 60
—Pearl, 137 *4° Pitch, pr. bbl. 1 73 2
Ariack pr. gall. 133 1 Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 11 33
Brandy, common, 1 Lower count) it - )
Comae 1 20 Carolina 9
Braziletto, pr. ton. 32 34 Peas, Albany pr. bulhel 73
Bricks, pr. M. 5 7 Pepper, 'b- 37
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. t67 2 Pimento 16
Ditto, pilot 3 33 Raisins, best, pr. keg 9
Ditto, fawn water, per keg 36 40 Qj tto pr .j ar 2
Beer, American, in bottles, Ditto pr. box 3
pr.doz. bottles included, 140 R lce pr cwt z 267
Ditto pr. barrel, 4 6 7 Rosin pr. bariel ' £ 33 •> 67
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 16 Rum, Jamaica, pr. gallon 4 tlB 122
New England " Antigua 1
Oak 8 9 Windward 83
Merchantable pine 16 17 Barbadoes 83
Sap, do. 8 —Country, N. t. f>7
Mahogany, per foot 10 cl. .
6 " r Salt petre, pr. cwt. 14 33
The above are the (hallop prices, Sallafras pr. ton 6 8
for the yard price, add x dol- Shot ditto >40
l ar 33 cents per xooo. Steel, German pr.lb. 9
Brimstone in roils, pr.cwt. 3 33 English.blistered, pr. cwt. 10
Beef, Boston, per barrel ( 7 8 American pr. ton 513 33
Country ditto 6 7 Crowley's pr. faggot 1067
Fresh, per cwt. 3 33 4 67 Snake root pr. lb. 2»
Butter pr.lb. 16 Soap, Brown per lb. 0
in kegs 9 »° whitc 8
Candles, Sperm, pr. ib. 43 Starr^' 1 '' 0 7
m", w " Snuff pr.fc».bot. 4 560
vr ' e a .? Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
Mould, tal ow Sailcloth, Englilh,No.i,pr. yard, 28
- D .. i° Bofton.No'. I. ditto 30
Cheese, Lnglifh, pr. lb. «S No j, 2 g
— "Country 8 *° Sugar Lump, pr.ib ' *4
Chocolate 7 '* JUoaf, single refined 26
C |n "' imon 340 it! Ditto, double do. 36
C |ov « * Havannah, white 17 * 8
Cocoa pr.cwt. >5 D; brow|l>
Coffee pr. It, 8 >9 __, M , lfcoV3do: cwt . ,3 , 5
Coal pr. bulhel 20 "SpiritsTttrpentinepr. gallon 33 37
Copperas pr.cwt. o Salt, Allum pr. bulhel 24 2;
Cordage, American, per cwt. 767 8 —Liverpool *9
Conor, pr.lb. •- < CaHit *3 *4
Cu!ramt 9 -Lilbon 25 2 '
Duck,Ruffia, pr. piece 11 33 Ship build. W. O. frames p.ton, 12 13 33
Ravens 893 967 Qitio Live Oak, 15 33 16
Dutch fail duck, '8 20 Ditto red cedar, per foot 33 4°
Feathers pr.lb. 4° 44 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 233 27
Flax ditto 11 12 Ditto 2 leet, 5 33
Flaxfecd pr. bulh. 8 5 9 c Ditto 3 feet, drelTrd, 13 15
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 5 Staves, Pipe pr. 1000 29
Common, P 4 6; —White Oak hogshead, 9 33
Bur middlings, best 4 Red Oak do. 19 5°
Meal, Indian 2 5* Lcogan 2 ' 33
ditto Rye, 2 4° ,si 67
, Ship-ftuff pr.cwt. 80 , —Heading '
Fustic pr. ton, 2° Skths, Otter, best pr. piece <4^7
r /-► — -Minks 20 ?,
G»n, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 & Fox, grey 40
Do. pr/gall. 8 Ditto red »20
Glue, pr. cwt. 2® 21 33 Martins 24 1 .
Ginger, white race, per lb. 7 f,;(Her» 33
Ditto, common 7 Bears 3
Ditto, ground pr.lb. « Racoons 27 60
Ginleng, 20 2 4 Mulk-rats n 20
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.calk, 373 4 Beaver, pr. lb. 67 133
Ditto, fine glazed 4 __Deet, in hatr 2 ° 3°
Grain, Wheat pr. birtH 93 » _ n
r vc * 47 I ar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 1 20
Oat, 35 Carolina, 32 gall. 133 »6 7
T„j,, n rnrn co Turpentine pi. bbl. 1 D 7 2
Barlcv » 9 C tobacco, J. River, bcft 10010. 360 373
Be-ft (helled pr. lb. ~3 inferior . 3 33
Buckwheat, per bulh. 4° ° ld 4
■ .—Rappahannock 3 33
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 120 14b b; Coloured Maryland, 5 33 8
American, pr. lb. 4 0 Dark, 2 4°
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 Long-leaf 2 4°
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 Eallern-lhore 2 2 '3
Hops 7 7 Carolina,new 27 3
Hogshead hoops, pr. M. 15 old, 3 33
Indigo, French per lb. 1 132 Tea, Hyson pr. lb. 93 128
■ Carolina 1 11c Hyson fk'n, 53
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 33 Souchong, 5®
Iron, Castings pr. cwt, 34; -Congo, 43 5°
Bar pr. ton, 82 6 Bohea, 3 1 33
pig ' 24 26 67 Tallow, refined, per bl. 9
Sheet ,1 73 33 Tin pr. box, 13 33 l 3 °7
-Nail rods 9<> Veld ig rca fe pr.lb. 47 .53
Junk, pr.cwt 4 5 Vermillion, do. >33 Ib 7
Lard hogs pr. lb 9 « Varnith, per gallon 33 37
Lead, in pies pr. cvyt. 5 33 o°/ c
in bars 7 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 — °
white 10 6/ Lisbon 120 12 a
6-40 6 6 —TenciifFe, pr. gallon °3
Leather, foal, pr.lb. 17 20 Fayal 5 2
Lignum vitsepr.ton, a 60 6 Port pr. pipe 11333
Lotwood 2 4 —- Ditto in bottles, pi.doz. 4
si-Claretf ————i-Claret 4
Mace pr.lb. 7 33 7 b i-Sherrypr.sa.il. po iso
Mackarel, bell pr.bbl. 9 Malaga ' 77 80
-f-cond quality 0 ' Wax, Bees pr.lb. 2 d 27
Madder.beilpr.lt). Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 3°
Marble, wrought, pr, foot, 1 33 2
Ma IV spars ditto 33 COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Molafles pr. gall. 44 5- Q n London, n3O days, per ioo£ . (terl. 460
Mustard per. lb. ' at 60 days' i 57 33
flour, in bottles, pr.doz. 1 2C __v__ ot 90 oays ' 45i>
Nails, Bii. lorf. isW. and soii. pr.lb. >c Amfterdain, 60 days, pr. guilder, 40
Nutmegs pT. lb. 7 ° 90 days, 3®
Oil, Linfecd, pr. gall. 6i Government bills, drawn at >0
—Olive - days fight, at 40c 7m per guilder,
141
FROM TfLE PENNSYLVANIA GAZETTE,
No. HI.
vft*ions on the Letters of u A Fa rmer,"
Add rifled td the Ycomunry oj ike United States.
THE charges brought by the writer of " The
Farmer," against the general government,
are Juch, as ought to attract the moil serious
attention of the people of the United States.
His words are as follow •
Had the cqnftitution of the United States
a fr ndation equally firm and equitable (with
that of France, to wit,) we Ihould not at tins
day witness the laws of the Union stained with,
44 1 ft. Mercantile regulations, impolitic in
theirfelves, and highly injurious to the agricul
tural interests of our country.
" 2d. With funding/)/?""', by which the pro
pel tv and rights of poor, but meritorious citi
zens, are facrificed to wealthy gamesters and
fpecnlators.
"'3d. With the eftablifliment of banks, au
thorizing a few men to create a fictitious mo-1
neV, hy which/they may acquire rapid fortunes |
without indujfcry. j
44 .nil. v/ith '?xci'o law*, which violate the
tranquilly of domestic retirement, and which
prevent the farmer from enjoying the fruits ot
his care ajid indi\ftry."
It mult be supposed by the yeomanry, who
have read the foregoing charges, that thr French
constitution had prevented the existence ot mer
cantile regulations, of a funding system, of a
I bank, of certificates, paper money, and bank
notes, and of excise laws, in that country. This,
however, would be another instance of the mil
takes into which " The Farmer's" pamphlet
would lead thole who confide in it.
The French have prohibited foreign built
ships from being navigated under their fiag, tho'
owned French citizens, they have prohibited
the ships of all nations from importing tobacco
into that kingdom, unless it was produced in
the country to which the ship belongs; they
have laid a duty of eight dollars per hogshead
on tobacco imported in any foreign fliip, more
than ifmiported in a French ship; they have
laid duties upon exports, which our confti tut iota
forbids, hcaXtft they would fall upon the landed in.
tercjl\ and, oj course, unequally, upon the great produc
ing Jlates; they will not permit the unmanufac
tured prc.\iwo» r>fj?r*vrc+ nor HlSl2ofaftUTfiS
of France, to be carried to the French Weft-
Indies and colonies, in any foreign ship, nor will
they permit the produce of the Weft-Indies, or
colonies, to be carried to any place but France,
nor in any other ships than Ifaofe built arid Owned
in France, except the (ingle article of molafles;
they impose duties on foreign vefTels employed
in their coasting trade ; they give high bounties
to their filhing vefTels and flfhermen, and im
pose heatfy duties upon the foreign fifli, which
is necellarily imported by their colonial planters
and their labourers, to encourage distant fifhe
ries, ijpon the American coails, and elsewhere.
In short, all the principles of our commercial
laws exilt in the French system, and several
which we have rejected. They desire to main
tain a navy, and their national legislature deem
these numerous commercial regulations neces
sary to that end. Knowing they have the pow
er, they do not think it proper to be restrained
by the idea that the legislature of a free state
cannot (as " The Farmer" thinks) interfere
in the business of their citizens, without ipjuf
tice and danger. The National AfTembly know
it is often done with real advantage to the com-
inunity.
That the .French have a funding system, is
proved bv the feriojis fait that they pay annu :
ally, annuities, and the expences of
their 'government', fiie futn of one Imh'dred and
,ten mil/ions »j dollars.
In the early stages of their revolution, at
tempts -were made to reduce the public debt by
some ot the fcveral unwise means, which have
been frequently suggested in other countries.
The proportions were firmly and constantly re
jected, although the public debts of France, in
dead of being cor>tra&ed in an honorable strug
gle for free government, had been created by
the public and private vices of their kings, mi
nisters and courtiers.
The kingdom of France, like other European
countries, has at this moment a great bank,
which illues, as usual, its notes, or bills, as
every man, who undertakes to inform the peo
ple, ought to know.
Among the thirteen articles which compose
the revenues of France, an excise upon native
wines, spirits distilled from native materials,
and other produce and manufacturers of pre-
duce, is to be found. This is collected upon
them when they pass through or enter into the
towns, and amounts to near ten millions of .'dol
lars. They have also taxes upon the land-hold
ers, which are in proportion to the quantity oj pro
duce raised by them, and are therefore, in effort,
an excise upon the growth of grain, hiiy, wines
and fruits, upon the ratting of swine and cattle,
&cc. &c. They impose also, upon many deno
minations of tradesmen and manufacturers, a
tax for carry on therr-trade, which
(ipefate's as an excise on the articles they manu
facture, and is a v'ery great and general interfe
rence in the occupation s of their citizens. They j
have likewise granted bounties upoti the expor
tation of certain manufactures, believing that
[Whole No. 358.]
their pood tendencies in regard to the notional
interests render those grants in ionic inftariceis
clearly advifeable.
We fee then, by a recurrence to the conduct
of France, that the Nttional Afiembiy, in the
midst of their revolution and under that royal
or kingly constitution, which " The FaXXIk"
prefers to ours, have countenanced the com
mercial laws, funding fvftem, bank, and excise,
which were commenced by the firft, and com
pleted by the second legislature of the United
States in co-operation wirti our elective chief
magistrate. It would probably surprise " The
Farmer," and the refpe&able yeomanry whom
he addrelfes, to learn further, that the debts of
the states (or payi d'etat of France) have been as
sumed in that kingdom by the National Aflem
biy, to the amount of ninety millions of dollars*
Britanny and many other states of fiance were
so joined to that empire, that their union was
really a confederacy. It was seen, that if fhofe
debts remained upon them, they must each hav«
their feparatefinancial (yftem clalhing With each
other and with the National Afiembiy, and that
no feafibie or uirform system of finance could
beexpefted. Upon tbefe principles the Na
tional Assembly deemed it wife to a (fume them
to the iinmenfe amount already mentioned. —
This, it may be observed, has been reprefentcd
as the most unneceflary part of the funding sys
tem of the United States. But we find that the
wisdom of another free nation has led them to
the fame measure under similar circumflances.
It will be proper now to examine the com
mercial regulations of Congress as they affect
the agricultural interest ; and here the firft re
mark which occurs is, that the tonnage duty is
lower under the laws of the union than it was,
on a medium, under those of theftates. So that
at worst Congtefs have only continued an evil
in a smaller degree, which the Jiates commenced in a
greater. But let the duties on Imported arti
cles interfering with the agriculture ot'thecoun
try be remembered. These are so many boun
ties to the landed interest. The impost on beer
is eight c'etits per gallon, because we can employ
our own barley, hops and fuel ill the manufac
ture, that 011 common spirits is 24 to 28 cents
for the fame reason 111 regard to rye and fuel,
starch is dutied 15 per cent, bricks 10 per cent,
'cordage 180 cents, tallow candles 2 cents, but
ter, beef and pork 7-* per ci.i.t. cheele 4 cents,
coal 4J cents, cotton 3 cent*, indigo 25 cent-.,
fruits oMI kinds 10 per cent, glue, hair pow
der and wafers 15 per cent, coari'e iron work,
leather goods and hats 10 per cent, malt I*3
cent', marble fione and mustard 10 per cert.
fnutf 10 cents, manufactured tobacco 6 cents,
flax 7£ per cent, and hemp 100 cents, because
they are the produce of our lands or manufac
tured from them. Such are the commercial
regulations of a government, which ismifrepre
fented to the yeomanry as staining its laws with
injuries to the landed interefl!
[ To be concluded in our ncxt.\
FROM THE AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER
Mr. Dunlap,
THE revolution now depending in France is
one of the mod interesting and important
obj-efts that has ever engaged the attention of
mankind. The glory or the humiliation of the
cause of liberty very materially depends upon
it. As men, anxious for the happiness of our
fellow men, it cannot but have engaged our belt
wilhes—as freemen, solicitous for the reputa
tion of f;ce government, we cannot but feel an
additional motive of concern for the eveht
as Americans, who gave the example to
twenty-five millions of people, we must find our
sympathy in the fate which (hall befall them,
heightened by something like a responsibility for
the influence of that example'—as individuals,
pofleiTed of sensibility, we cannot be indifferent
to the fortunes of thole individuals Who, having
diftinguilhed themselves in fighting our battles,
are endeavoring to procure for their own coun
trymen a participation in that freedom, which
they aififted in procuring for us. The good or
the ill fortune of La Fayette can never but
touch the tendered chords of an American
heart.
Aias ! how painful is the idea, that a path so
plain and easy, as that which lay before the
French nation, ftiould have been rendered in
tricate and thorny—a profpeft fo»bright and
certain, ihould have been rendered obscure and
precarious—not by the combination of royal
despots—not by mercenary legions, threaten
ing them with the horrors of fire and sword (sos
these, with unanimity and vigor, could easily
be iVuftrated) but by a rash, fanatical, and un
principled faction, by a set of hairbrained en
thusiasts, played upon by designing knaves, who,
after having destroyed the public confidence in
the most enlightened and virtuous patriots in
the country, ahd seized the reins of power into
their own bands, are too unikilful .to manage
them with advantage, and too fond of dominion
to part with '.them. In the midtft of tempests,
that threaten to overwhelm their country and
themselves in perdition, instead of endeavoring
to calm, they ltill continue to excite the winds
and waves of sedition ; and, for a momentary
poflefiion of the rudder, appear determined to
devote the political bark to deftrnftion.
In contemplating this melancholy—this asflirting feene, exhibited in another nation
amidit our prayers to the great Ruler oi tiie uni
verse to avert the danger which hangs over 1
to ftili the rage of fift»on —harmonise the
dilcordant councils, and protect, the hb;rty and
happiness of so large and interesting a portion
of mankind—it is incumbent upon us, as pru
dent men, and citizens, to de'rive trom it a o
leuin war.ung to ourielves —a lellori oi caution,
circumlpection, and vigilance, for
of our own conduct. , .... .
It becomes every reflecting man in the Uni
ted States, to alk himlelf this fcrious question,
are tliere not among us too many ot a cna
rafter exadtty similar & the men, who have
plungettjhe Affairs oi' Franc* into the -ejrtieme
dilorder aud kopardy, in which tiiey are now
inyoiyed.» Are there not men among us, who
feein difcon tented with every thing that bears the
semblance of regular 'and (table government.
who seem to have no other o'ject, than to keej
tfie cominunity in an unfettlfcd, convulsed, and
feverilh state ? who call all government tyian
..ny, reliftauce to constitutional and neceilarv
laws, patriotism, the friends of the law's and ot
rational liberty ariftocrates, conspirators, and
despots I who seem to think the business of go
vernment confilts in perpetual change ? that to
utt'i"o and to do we//, .are things of fynonimous
import ? and that the people can never be hap
py or fafe, but when they are uneasy and a
larmed !
If there are such men among us—for. the love
of country, for the fake of peace, for the fake j
of every thing that is dear and precious to us
jis jnen, as fathers, and as citizens, let us be
upon our guard against their machinations, let 1
us watch them with eagle eye ; let us listen with!
• caution to their'fmodth and deceitful tales; let
ijs withhold from them the means of doing mif
chief; let us put our confidence in those whom
we'tiave found the advocates for good
governniint and nor
p'rojtet'ty caii be fafe wTthout both.
" The prefertt is a Very momentous crisis in
the affairs of the United States—factious men
are unusually aftive&noify—They proveby the
violence of their efforts the violence of the dif-
ease—Let the event teach them that the citi
zens of these States have diiTcernmefit enough
to detect their defijns, and steadiness enough to
defeat them
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenko, ]
JT is too evident to be denied, that it has for j
a long time been considered as a very light \
affair to abnfe and traduce the federal govern
ment— fie meifures which have been adopted, 1
pursuant to the powers and principles of that
government, and the mm' Who have been the
prime agents in effecting the happy alteration
in the affairs of this cotfntry—the motives that j
have been imputed to these men, arid the epi ,
thets with which a cabal has attempted to ftig
liiatize them, aye applicable only to the mod
abandoned characters that have difgraeed the
Ituman ijiecies wnder the my ft deteiiable tvran
aiffi yet, the "authors of
thdfe calumnies effrontery to complain
in language peculiar to themftlves, when only
_,au injfividnaLof, tfcis cabal is\ carivajfed in highroad
cardinal's cap ! !" 808.
FOR THE GAZtIfE Of IHL UNll ED STATES,
■ON THE BACKCOUNTRY RESOLUTIONS.
NOTHING is more common than to find
the word dafigns accompanied with the bed
proteilions; not because hypocrily pays Tome
respect to virtue, but because it secures a bet
ter reception to its seducer. Even a ragged
garment feeins to spare the blushes of a vaga
bond; but now and then a lunatic ch to in
sult the world in his nakedness. The authors
of the Pennfylyanis back country resolutions
agaimt the excise seem to disdain the little nice
ties of decorum, _and all the attentions with
which men in civilized life who have points to
carry usually attempt to soothe the feelings of
those who may be expected to oppose tnem.
Not feeling much refpeft for law and order,
they proceed in the firft instance to treat them
with the extreme of outrage and contempt.
They call those who ftiall attempt -to carry a
law of the people into execution loft to all fe'nfe
of virtue, unworthy of friendfhip and of the
conversation even of such persons as the authors
of the resolutions. They must be unworthy
citizens indeed whom the fomenters of armed
opposition to the law deem it difgraceful to as
sociate with!—-It is the pride of free citizens and
the charafteriftic of a republic that the laws go
vein ; yet those resolution makers who are
willing to put the lives and properties of their
brethren at rifle by combining the force of the
back country against the excile, hold it a dif
grice even to speak to such bad citizens as,
having no sense of virtue, woyld keep the sword
of rebellion 1,1 its scabbard, bv alfilting to carry
the ast into peaceable execution. We mav
judge how well they love liberty and whether
they undarftand what it is, by their declared in
tention to obftruft the operation of the law by
every legal measure. We hear of the maiefty
of the people, but did we ever know it more
grossly insulted ? Flying in the face of the peo
pie then "elves and most audaciously counlelline
refill an« to their authority is not merely let
ting down goyernment, it 'is attempting to re
lax t.ie ties of society. The people would lole
411 power of acting as a body, and their forming
society would be labor loft, if their solemn ast,
or authority may be opposed and fcornfully
trampled upon as the authors of the resolutions
propose.
Is it the grievance of the law that their mo
whv (h 'w Pa ' d ? 1,1 a " equal S ov ei'nment
why Ihould they n° t pay their part; And how
little of the duties is drawn from them com
Th W pald amon 6 thcm ! Thev
Afltke the natureofthelaw. Let them point
Agtwherem ,t „ exceptionable. The powers
confined, the mode of trial is
hi the due course of law- The mapy provi
■'ions of the ast to prevent ahufes, -and to afford
remedy for the misconduct of oiricers, furnifii a
lignal proof of the watchfulness < f Cougrefs to
gttard again it any violation oi the pimeiples o
liberty, or opprefl:ol of the citizens.* Let the
fomenters of niifchiejjnanifeit as much refpett
tor liberty. Tl.efe mock friends of liberty
fliould be told what its real friends well know,
that when law is made to lull by forcc, evei)
thinp that law and order feeure, inuft fall witli
: t ONE OF THE PEOPLE.
Extras ej a publication tihic/i appeared in the Virginia
(hiopic/e the i-'-td ult.
IN the fecqud publication of MV. lip
; eems apprehensive that, il Olie
(Uould withhold the recottrtii(sndfetion for a'con
vetilion, the people may be forced to regenef;.";p
their government by adireft aflumption of their
original rights; that is, I presume, if,the Legtf
latuve do not recommend a convention so be
called, that they mult be annihilated, we
lliall Call into a State of nature. But I want to
know in what manner this is to be donej for I
lee none, unless by open sedition. His ippre
hen lions are groundiel's; the virtuous citizens
of Virginia, are not disposed to commit fych an
outrage on all go order and government, nor
will they be ftimnlated by his seditious publica
tions. Nor has he weight fufficient to, low the
feeds of diflention between " the a&ive and in
duftrioin sons of the mountain," and tho&, (as
he emphatically and elegantly exprefles it)
" whose stars have given them locality, near a
fifhing (hore, oyster creek or crab cove."
Public opinion may censure me for having ob
truded on its patience remarks upon produc
tions that rather merited silent contempt. I
Feel the force of the reproof, nor fliould I have
been induced bad these produftfons been con
fined to Virginia : but they haveibeen reprint
ed in a neighboring State ; for what end it is
difficult to conjecture, unless the with
which they treat the mealures of the general
government afforded a gratification.—'l'heEdi
tor ol the National Gazette, and the host of
malcontents, mult be extremely hard pTelfed,
when the aid of a writer is required, whose only
merit is invective, and whose abilities and im
portance are equally imaginary.
CATO
Foreign Affairs.
MADRID, July 12..
THE Count de Florida Bla»ea,who
since his disgrace has Lived in re
tirement ai Ellin, a final) town of the
'kingdom of Murcia, was arrested the
night before last, by order of the
king, and conducted by an Alcaide,
and an escort of fojdiers to the Gaftle
of Pampeluna. The offences with
whiqh he is charged are of a very se
rious nature—abnfe of.autliority and
Uiffipailcm of the national treasure.
LISLE, July 17.
Some little justice has been done
here, ac length, to the alhes of the
unfortunate Dillon. A man, called
the &teur Vafleur, who was one of the
molt active and principal in attack
ing the ill fated General, and after
wards burning his body, was tried
lately,and condemned tolofe his head.
The sentence was carried into exe
cution on Friday lait,- ainidft an im
mense number of fpe<ftators. Heap
peared to be little affected at his ap
proaching death, and walked with a
steady step to the fcaftold, which was
erected precisely oti the spot where
the remains of the unfortunate Dil
lon, were con fumed to alhes.
Having ascended the fcaffold, he
addrefled himfelf to the furroitndiug
multitude, and said, with an audible
voice, << that at the moment of his
taking part against the deceased Ge
neral, he atfted under a persuasion,
according to the universal report 011
the occasion, that he had betrayed
the army ; and however he might
have since been convinced, that the
General was mifreprdfented, he, nt
verthelefs, frt>m the above-mentioned
conviction, at the time, could not
help considering himfelf, i„ f„ lne
measure, as a martyr to the cauf'e of
the nation. Consequences, he added,
might have shewn his zeal a miltaken
one ; but at the moment of his con
duct, he confulered himfelf as taking
a laudable part against one who wai
jeprefenred, and whom he then be
lieved to be a traitor."
He then submitted himfelf to the
executioner, who, by an apparatus,
new, at least here, and called a Lou
ifon, was decapitated in an inltant.
PARIS, August i.
The curious inanifefto of the Duke
ot Brunl wick has made little I'enfati
on on the public mind. Absorbed in
our more important affairs of a petty
broil jn the Champs Elyfees—of the
great queltion, whether one of the
walks in the Thuilleries ought not to
be taken from the king for the amufe
nient of the people—of t-he frails of
142
the federates—and of the conduct of,
La Fayette—we have no time to give:
to the 200,0c0 Aullrians and Pi nliians,
who aie ready to bur't into the king
dom. The Duke of Brunfw ick's ma
nifefto might perhaps have engaged
the actention of M. Briflbt, if a letter
of more consequence to French liber
ty had not come forili, viz. a letter
from the miniller of justice, directing
that foine allaflins who had committed
muider, should be pi ofecuted accord
ing to law. This inconteltable proof
of the treason of the court, engages
all l/is indignation, and he has nei
ther patience nor time to devote to
the enemies of his country !
Such, alas ! is the deplorable in fa
tiity of France at the present moment ;
and thus is the grand queltion of li
berty utterly abandoned. Do not
imagine that I fay this in the spirit
of party. 1 abhor thein both ; for the
intrigue, pride and obstinacy of the
Feuillants are perhaps no lei's difaf
ttous than the turbulence, lunacy,
and idiotifm of the Jacobins. Nei
ther of them will fuffer France to be
saved but in their particular way.
They will neither of them abate from'
their principle, though by their maiiir
tenance of it they fee the gulph open
to receive them. Can a man, who
like myfelf was a witness of the glo
jrious efferts of union in America—
i who know from experience, that even
villi a tenth part of their resources
they would be invincible if animated
iby a common spirit, behold this exe
crable discord without indignation
My abhorrence is augmented when i
'fee that the spirit of the people is
iquick—iheir ardor unabated by all
'they have fuffered—their confidence
; undiminifhed by all that they fee.—
And that ihey only want wifdoin in
the legifla'ure,&artivity at the helm,
to direct their enthusiasm to its true
obje<ft. Ten thousand leven hundred
and fifteen volunteers have entered
themselves in eight days, and actual
ly set out yelterday for the camp.
These were provoked by no bounty,
110 enlisting money whatever was giv
en them,- —it was the working of the
constitution on their hearts, and fimi
jlar ardor burns in every department.
Some perlons efFe<ft to distrust the
authenticity of the tpa'njfefto, with
the Duke of Brunfwick's name, "it
is impossible," fays one writer, " that'
even this man who lives on human fa
crifice, should have publifyed any
thing so savage, and so outrageous as
this paper. That it was in the Bruf
fells gazette, is no proof—lt may be
the policy of Aultria, after having
committed their new allies, to make
them contemptible." A more saga«
cious and temperate Editor., enume
rates critical reasons fo\- disbelieving
it, and then fays,
" If after all it be true, that the
Duke of Brunfwick has outraged to
this degree the dignity and indepen
dence of a great people, who desire
only to be free, (hall not this cruel
affront rewaken in the fouls of French
men, the sentiment of National honor,
and unite all the spirits and powers
inj>ne central direction, which lhail
have the sole view of saving us from
the bafell of servitudes."
In the mean time,we have at length
got a foreign minister of sense and
vigour. It is M. De St. Croix, whose
condudl at Coblentz, as Minister Ple
nipotentiary, every mail applauded.
—He is active and brs.ve. With a
fruitful mind, and an undaunted tem
per, he takes to sea, as pilot of his
country, in this perilous (torm. May
he ride triumphant through the bil
lows, and bring the National bark
(afe and glorious into harbour.— Alas!
alas ! that in such a tempest, and with
a (haltered veflel, the crew (hould be
mutinous .'
A Municipal officer is arrived from
a village near Valenciennes..- He
complains that on account of hi 9 be
ing reputed a Jacobin, he hns very
narrowly escaped being all'aflinated
by the officers of a body of CJiafleurs.
Ke fays, that he is no longer la his
village. His cafe is referred to the
cognizance of the Tribunals, & a de
cree is pafled for taking him under
the protection of the law.
Sotne members of the Belgic com
million demanded—l. That M. Jarry
be punished —2. Succours forthe Le
gions and Belgic Troops fervirgin
the trench army. Their demand
was lupported by M. Duhem, who
iVid that iuftead of Urf,.-, „„ ..
M. J airy ha. been appouuedTL
nant-General. wumiea Ueo*
M. Arena moved that the late
mllry bepunifhed, without excepting
one individual, as being guufy 's
having betrayed the nftion.
petition of the Belgian w as re {Jnl
.f, extl ao, cllna, 7 e <»mmittee Th,
M.ntlte, (haUbeio^nog^cdtoknow
whether it be true that The eonflal
ut Courtray has been the m „ n|
of getting M. Ja. ry promoted to Z
tank of Lieutenant-General.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
i a; J L ' LV 2> *'
An officer appeared at the bar, and
pi opofed that the coach and saddle
horses kept by any perf 011 f or ~w
s ure, fhouid all be seized for the use
of the army ; and that the from line
ot all the regular troops be armed
with pikes. —Referred to the milia.
ry committee.
July 26. M. d'Averhoult gives Bp
his feat in the Auguff Diet for ,h e
pleasure of joining the army. M
Payfaveaux thought, by f« doing, he
guilty of peijury.
Heard a project from the military
committee, for encreafingthennmber
of general officers by the admissi on
of old officers who have retired:
1 he left-hand members disliked
the projedt, because the old officers
are, inolt of them, cidevant nobles.
M. Dumas said that the nobles are
hunted and perfecored rs if they were
all in a ltate of proscription Hided
by the galleries, and the prnjecft de
creed.
L O N b O N, Augiift io.
The French National A trembly, by
ilie lareft accounts, appear to be much
less favorably difpoted towards the
petition of M. Petion, for the depoft
tion of the King, than was at lirlt ima
gined. Many of those who till lately
have been molt violent Jacobins, de
claim against this petition, as uncon
stitutional and detestable.
Criminal juttice is now conducted
in Paris, pretty nearly on the fame
plan as in London. The fourth fet
fiol) of their criminal tribunal ended
on July 29, in which 6 prisoners were
condemned to capital pnnilhment,
32 to iuiprifonment for different pe
reiofls, and 33 acquitted.
Among tlie cnrioflties going to Chi
na with the splendid embafly,isafil
ver swan, so light in its conrtruiftioi),
and chafed in such a manner, as to
appear at a very (null dillance per
fectly natural. The head and tlie
wings alio feern to have a natural mc-
The real and personal property of
the late Sir Richard Arkwright, isef
tiniated at little short of half a milli
on of money. From the humble Ka
tion of a Barber at a village near
Manchester, he gradually rose ill the
acqtiifition of his vast wealth, by the
accidental purchase of a single pitce
of niechanifm called the Spinning
jenny, the invention ofan ingenious
carpenter, who, as report fays, offer
ed it for sale from mere necessity.
A morning paper yelterday inform
ed its readers, that M. Defmettes,
Adjutant-General to M. La tayette,
was dead of the wounds civically in
flitfted on him on the Terrace des
Feuillans, a few weeks ago—and tins
was repeated in an evening pa pet.
M. Defmottes as we have already
Hated in our accounts from the Frenc 1
army, was mortally wounded in
fuccefsful attack made by La f ayette
on the Aurtrians, near Lol)g u . , •
Front this.specimen, the public mav
judge of the fabrications
to be imposed upon them, undei t ie
title of authentic information from
the correspondents of certain p 3 r cl
in Paris. . ..
A deficit of two millions of 1
has been diicovered in the accuU
of the finances of the h rench enngf _
Princes—Calonne is in
M. Mallet do Pin fills hi s place.
On Thursday last, being tl>e - '
August, his Grace the Duke o ;
borough presented a white
French banner, ortiainente
fiun de Us, to his Majesty 85
Caflle, according to annual u «,
the service by which he >o 1 ' | {B .
princely manor and de " ,e
heim : by the cuftoni of rh«
if a banner is not thns prefeme
rv year before twelve o'clock a. n«.
the whole estate lanles to t
i
V
'ITie government of this country
iiat i>sied with its usual efficiency in
making the Einbafly to China as
splendid as the riches and good taite
of the country can invent. Nothing
Thori of what it is intended to be,
could proinife success to the under
taking. The Chines« profefs fucb
otter con tempt towards all European
nations, as well as for their arts and
fcieaces, that we must surprise them
with, our jngenuity and splendor, be
fore we Air hope to be admitted into
their good opinion.
Mr. Cameron's celebrated Gngle
viae, which completely Wis one hot
bouse, at his feat of Valenlines, in
£flex, sixty feet in length, has pro
this fealbn, near 3001b weight
of the fineft flavored grapes.
Extred of a letter, C'jo!:ntz,
July 18.
" From Frankfort we have just re
ceived advices, ltating, that a plot of
the deepett dye had been laid to as
faifinaie the new Sovereign, and to
le-acl the dreadful tragedy lately
perforated at Stockholm.
" So secretly were the various ma
chinations carried on, that the dread
ful plot was upon the point of being
ppt into execution, when one of the
conspirators, struck with reniorfe and
horror at the bloody deed, suddenly
repaired to amagiftrate, and revealed
the treafou, pleaded his contrition,
and surrendered all that could be ap
prehended of his accomplices ; relat
ing, at the fame time, who were the
principals, and who the agents were
for accomp] ifhtng the tremendous vil
lainy.
" On taking these depositions, the
nagiitrate immediately repaired Co
ihjs Duke of Bronfwick, who, in con
juixhion with ihe elector, ifl'ued or
ders for arresting Conne de Wittgen-
Itein, commander of a regiment in
the service of the French Priaces,and
cousin of the Pruf&nn general of that
name ; likewise Klefl'rs. Lequin, La
Celte, De Pimodan, and Mr. Vinezac,
a major of the National Guard at Pa
ris, resident near Coblentz."
Improvement in the Art of Bankruptcy.
An. Irish correspondent writes—
" The profcffion of bankruptcy, in
this country, is reduced 10 a fyftern,
agaiaft•which the direift its
efforts in vain ; for boolcscan be pnr
chafed, with the accounts o"f Dtbtor
and Creditor, Expenditure, &c. oil a
few days notice."
Philadelphia, Oft. 5.
ABSTRACT OF FOREIGN SEWS.
A Ivl.. Jcnkinfon, from England, is at Cob
lent.?.—Paid to be f6ht there by the Britilh go
vernment on a pacific million with refpeot to
the affairs of France. The situation of Poland
has alio excited the attention ot the Kritilh nii
niftrv.—A raeffenger has been difyatched from
England to the King of Pruflia, with provisional
inft-u&ions to proceed from thence to Warjaw.
It is said that if the King of the French should
be deposed, he is to be delivered up in fafety to
the enemies of the liberties of France, witnout
the least perionar injury—if it is poflibk to pre
fer ve him from the rabble.
The Aiiftrians have again enteredthe French
territories at Bavay. General Dillon, who
commands the French army in that quarter,
had fallen back to Berlamont—where he has ta
ken a strong position.—The Piedmontete have
commenced humilities againlt the French.
Coblentz is entirely evacuated by the emigrants,
who are succeeded by the Pruflians. Spain ap
pears resolved to support her neutrality in
ipe& to the affairs of France. —Whatever may
be the immediate ilTue of the invasion of that
kingdom, it is not to be imagined, fays an En.
glifh paper, that an attempt will be made to re
vive the old i'yftem of government, which, u.i-J
der Louis XIV. threatened the liberties ol
all Europe.—Protestant powets play a principal
part in the drama, and Protestants have cer
tainlv had a principal hand in the revolution
the fubjeet ; of the combined powers are largely
interested in the French fund"/, and a restoration
of despotism would be followed by bankiuptc),
which would be ruinous to them.
Three Englilh artists, Meflrs. Sharp, Sinirke
Ind Boyer, have executed a print ol Lord Corn
*'*aUis, receiving, aslioftage>>, the two sons ot
Tippoo Sultan-—The subscription for the Poles
appears to be a measure highly popular in Eng
land.—-At the head of the committee for its ma
nagement, we find the Lord Mayor of London,
the Sheriffs of that city, followed by a large
number of the firft characters. —M. de St. Croix,
the new French minister ot foreign afFai.s, is
an active and brave man T firmly attached to the
revolution—his appointment i{> generally ap
proved, and has inspired the people with confi
dence.—A letter from Paris of 7th August, fays,
the question refpe&ing M. de la Fayette is to
come on the Thursday following, when the
strength of parties will be decided. Hhe should
U-difmifled, the King will be deposed—but,
lays the writer, 44 1 am of opinion from what I
fee, that tbey wii] net be so ralh and aefperate
as to difiuifs him."
The titles and registered proofs of nobility
lately burnt at Paris, amounted to near6:x> ini
menfe folios— ,{ be !c recherche Ac fti X^feje y " in
292 vols, and 44 Lc s prevoes &e Azbfcjj:," to
vols.—Advice is laid to be received at Paris,
that M. d'Aranda !;ud given leave to the Jesuits
to return to Suain-
The PrulSan* contiuue to advance into the
territories of Poland. As they proceed on both
fides of Warsaw, many of the Poliih Noblemen
quit their country and retire to places of fafety.
Some are arrived at Vienna, See.
In the late conSagration of the archives of
the Nobility of Fraace,the Marchioness La Fer
riere brought the records of her own titles, and
threw them into the fire,.aaiidit the ftoutt of
her fellow citizens-—Denmark and Sweden are
determined to pre fer re a perfect neutrality in
regard to France aiid Poland.
Divisions ?mong the Jacobins are talked of—
Should this be the cafe, the right cause in
France, that of the Cooftitution, wiil periih.
Gen. Adv. of Monday
M. de la Fayette, (peaking of the Jacobin
Club, in his letter to the National AlTembly,
fays—" Can you dilfemble that a faction, and,
to avoid vague denominations, that the Jaco
bin faction has occasioned all the diforders.—lt
is to that faction that I loudly impute them.
It is there that, in public Mtti>:gs, love of the
laws is denominated aristocracy, and their in
fra&ion, pat riot ism.
There the aifaffins of Defines receive tri
umphs—the crimes of Jourdan find panegvrifts
—there also the recital of the aflaffinatiou that
stained the city of Metz, excited internal accla
mations of joy."
WOODBURY ACADEMY.
On Thursday the 23th ult. the Studert> of
the Woodbury Academy were examined, iivthe
'presence of a number of gentlemen of literary
character, and gave very fatis&ctary proofs of
their improvement in the Latin and Greek lan
guages, English Grammar, Geography, and the
uie of the ter reft rial G'obe—After their exami
nation on these branches of education, they ex
hibited to a numerous and genteel audience a
pleanngfpecimen of their talents in public ipeak
I ing, and many of them discovered presages of
eminence in future life.
At the anniversary commencement at Prince
ton, the 26th ult. the degree of Bachelor of Arts
was conferred on 36, and that of Master in
Arts, on eleven gentlemen.
Charles Thompson*, E r q. has decliued ferv-
as a. Member of Congress.
Extrafl of a letter jrom Maryland Sept. 22.
w Some perfens among us who have (carte any
other medium of political information but the
National Gazette,.have lately exprefied fomeap
prehenlions for the fafety of our freedom, and
the continuance of that national prosperity and
happiness which we now enjoy—-yet I can scarce
ly beliere it pofUble for any artifice however in
genious, malevolent, or infreiotrfiy fpeckms to
deftrov the ordinary eiTeft of the evidence of
senses. Much,however, has been effected
through the medium of the pafnons, even a
gainst this* If any extensive i Yap region should
be made by this gentleman and his patriotic au
thors it must be by the afliftance of those cha
racters (some fnch there are no doubt in all pla
ces) who despairing of rising into notice and be
ing elevated to public trust in a more virtuous
way are led to attempt it in this.—And in this
pursuit they will no doubt profit by the history
of its success in all popular governments; yet I
do not fear but it will find its wings dipt by the
superior degree of sagacity which the people of
these States poiTefs lam happy that as yet
these dcteftabJe machinations have not been a
ble to disturb the repose of that part of the Uni
ted States in which I live ; we feel noapprehen
lion we fear no pseudo-aristocracies while 1
things continue to go on as they have hither- j
to done ; and J trust we are not wanting in in
(juifitivenefs or the needful vigilance ; though
we are happily not tindfcured with the extreme
jealouiy of these pretended guardians of their
country's freedom."
COMMUNICATIONS.
It has been intimated in the Nation's Gazette,
that there is a nece{fity for another revolution
inAmeriea. This is one of the most aftpnifh
ing ideas that ever escaped our hot heads. It is
a kind of madness that soars above Bedlam.—
What is the revolution to accomplilh? The go
vernment is already in the people's own hands.
Do these fanatics wish, by another revolution,
to have it change hands? The people being al
ready poflefled of all, these revolutionists can
on]y intend to set them down at the end of a
term of carnage and desolation, with less than
they set out with : more they cannot have—in
thefcuflie they may lose all.—Tho' a revolution
could not benefit the people, it might those who
bring it on. Those who own no part of the
cargo, by running the ship on shore, may pick
something but of the wreck—and ceVtalnly they
can lose nothing.
We hear a great deal from Che enemies of
our peace about the few ruling the many.—
They confiderthis as anti-republican. Yet they
ieein to approve of measures v£ry incoiifiltent
with this principle. When a law, that is, the
will df'the mai:y, is rfefifted by the violence of a
few, tftey honor the perpetrators of the outrage
as men poiTcfling a true republican independence
of spirit. The insult to an exfclfe officer a*
Gennantown is with them an hopeful proof ot
what may be done. Are not the people insult
ed when their laws are refitted? Are not the
lives and the property of the many exposed to
extreme danger, when the laws, the barriers
that fence them in are thrown down ? If force
is to annul one law, will it spare another ? Those
who clamor against the excise, and encourage
resistance, are not republicans.
143
If the public mind were always di
icCtedbyan infallible iinpull'e, the
v\ ork of legislation, so far front being,
<is it realiy is (he molt difficult thing
[in the world, would be level to every
icapsciiy—care and *ircumlpection in
the public functionaries,
would oe entirely unneceiiary.
The man that has ability and reso-
lution to attempt rendering lolid and
endui ing services to his country, mull
often do it at the hazard of prel'ent
popularity. An independent decla
ration of the truth is attended fre
quently with the lots of friends in
private life—it is the charadteriftic of
party, that it Hatters whileit betrays—
and in public life, the man who is fu
peiiorto party influence, finds the
best pretensions to public honor llig
maiized with opprobrium and detrac
tion.
The face of our country is charm
ing in our eyes, as well as in thole of
(hangers whoviGt it. Wetakeplea
fure in hearing ihem express their
approbation ot what they lee We
are flattered Itill more by finding that
they like the inhabitants, and we love
our country and the cause of freedom
the better for believing that they will
go home and diffufe through their
levqial countries an high opinion ot
our nation Otfr newlpapers are lent
into foreign countries, andthofe who
Veadrhem, form their notions of us
from the accounts they contain of our
situation and expectations. What
good end do thole writers who fill
ihem with flanders of men and mea
fores expect to answer ? Do they fan
cy that foreigners will refjpeCt a peo
pie whom they describe as destitute
of rights, having loft them very late
ly; their property tyrannically torn
from ihem by excile officers whom
they are indirectly advised to tarand
feather. Will they chufe to remove
with their estates, their workmen,
and curious arts, into a country which
is so ignorantly and viliainoufly go
verned as the newspapers represent *
In France they consider our condition
a# a triumphant proof of the efficacy
of the principles of liberty. Other
nations are beginning to adopt their
idc.as. But we have men who aie la
bouring to undeceive them, and to
induce great numbers to stay at home,
inttead of emigrating to this laud of
oppreilion. It is fomuchthe interett
of the rulers of nations to keep the
iuduttrious and wealthy people at
home, that we may be Aire every ad
vantage will be taken of the lcarida
lous paragraphs published here, in
order to discourage the throngs of
settlers who are diipofed to cultivate
our foretts—lt mutt be confelied,
if these writers are paid by any fo
reign power to misrepresent and dis
credit the affairs of the country, they
are well entitled to their reward.
In proportion as the authority of the laws is enjore
ed, that oj powerful individuals is dmini/hed. In a
Jiate approaching to anarchy, the fenje and pro
perty* n.ho are the natural arijiocrats of ail Jock ties,
nji high aboz>e theirjellow citizens. Afeeble and
tottering government is ike mojl favorable to tkofe who
are in a condition to govern pay ties—J or in effect, at
such t:mes they govern the state. Individuals then
weigh the men having influence in pay ties en
gross all power. It is obvious therefore that equal
taws Jleadily evjorced are favorable to the body of the
people, on nhom they confer and to whom they fecuit
equal rights. 7he anjiocrais, the powerful individuals,
in that cafe fink down to the common level. The laws
regarding tights and not persons, they lose their ariflo
cratical prerogatives. These observations furnijh a
clue so underjland the complaints agcinji the laws oj
the United States. Being equal, andframed according
to the general voice, the rights oj the citizens.
But these fame equal rights cannot operate without a
bridging the arijlocratical pretenfiom of those who have
led parties in the fever alflates. It is curious to hear
the cry of ariflocracy begun by the very arijiocrats, and
addrejjed to the men who have lecoveied, members oj
a J ree the rights en which the complainers
had encroached. Look at the judicialfyjlem of the Unit
ed States ; is tkere in that, or any other law of Congref,
any violation of the equal rights oj the people ? Yet the
clamourers againfl the laws would lead one to suppose
that it is intended to wrefl fomt fragment if power
from government, to augment the rights of the citizens.
Nothing is farther jrom the purpose oj the clamourtrs,
or the natural course oj things. The observations here
tofore made willfhew that by enfeebling the laws, the
people will lose their proteflicn, while the leaders oj
parties, the natural arijiocrats, willajjume the power
oj them. Many cldmourers againfl ma\ Jeel
Jincere in their opposition, lecaufe they jeeb conjciou t
that they have funk as the laws have risen. Hut the
world need not now be told, at this Jlage of its political
fholarfhipi that an equal andfrm reprefentatue go
vernment, is the dtjlrudion of ariJlocrac\. It might
Ire indelicate to il{v/irate these remarks by vouchingjaffs
exjling in some oj the Jlates. A knowledge of these
andcj human nature, will enable us to underjland that i
government is the evil, and anarchy tie remedy which
the mcfl malignant have in i icu .
Poftfc«ipt.
The (hip New-York, Capt. Smith, arrived at
New-York on Saturday lait, in 3- days fru;n
Plymouth. The following is au abstract of im
portant ii.teliigei.ee received by tiie above
veflei
The question on M. de la FaVette isdeci : .*d
bv the National AiTembh—the committee re
ported that he had teen guilty of high treafor,
ire.—at the ciofe ot the ilebate 0:1 tr.is report,
there appeared 224 members of the AiTembly m
favor of accepting it, and agaii:ft it. On
leaving t!ie Hall, the majority were grossly ir.-
suited by a great mob, among whkfc w ere a
number offilhwnmei.. —Accounts were receiv
ed in London the 14th August, that the Kin J of
the French had heen before the Aiieml ly, and
was Deposed—The S<vifs Guards cut to piece?,
and that tiie Queen and Dauphin had thrown
themselves 011 the mercy of the National AlTeir.-
bly—This happened on the 10th August-
The statues of all the King, were thrown
down, and every ve'tige of Royalty destroyed.
The King is lent to the hotel of justice—he is
furmlhed with a guard under the orders ot the
Mavor of Paris—who with the commandant of
the National Guard are answerable for his fafe
ty ; he is allowed 503,000 livres for his expell
ees, until the meeting of a national conven
tion.
" The National Aflsmbly declares that the
King is fujjxndcd \ and that both him&lf and his
I family remain as hostages ; and that the AlTem
-1 b!y proceed! to replace them ; that the civil lift
ceaic to take place.
" Gensokne—PrelkJent."
An important decree has paflfed the AiFembly
— u That as the Patriot of to-day may be .1
Traitor to-morrow, ALL OFFICERS SHALL
BE CHOSEN BY THE SOLDIERS."
The fifteen Southern Departments of France
have offered from 400,000 to 30,0:0 livres far
the heads of the Emperor, King of Pruilia, See.
See. and it is said the Emperor and King of
Pruflia have offered a million for that of
Petion, Mayor of Paris. M. Clermont de Ton
nere, and a number of other persons of distinc
tion were killed in the commotion on the 10th
August. The Swiss guards consisted of 700
men, after having killed about loooof the mob,
.\ hich junouuted to 100,000 —12 picces cf can
non loaded with grape (hot being brought to
bear on the guards, they were fooa mowed
down.
The Decree of the National Assembly to al
lure the Au&rjans todefert, has had such an ei
fe<st, that 700, it*is said deserted in one night-
Paris was again in tranquility at the date of
the last accounts—Marflial Luckner had sur
rounded and taken 500 Auftrians, "with : 220
horses afld 6 cannon.
The new constitution of Poland is revoked ;
this mealure was recommended by the King as
the only alternative to prevent the furtfcqr cf*-
fufion of blood, and the dismemberment of the
kingdom.
A csirafidn oi HoffilitieThas taktn plate be
tween the Ruffians and Poles, and cn the 29th
July the treaty was to be ratified.
FOR THE o AZLTTE Of IH£ UN IT ID STATUS.
" A faithful king and nation implode thy
assistance, and will praise in hymns of gratitude
thy providence and mercy.*"
Aidrtfs of the King altd Diet of Poland,
PARAPHRASE.
O THOU—-who from thy glorious throne onhigh,
Hear'ft with companion when thy children cry J
Thy gtajcjpus audience give -thine ai m extend—
Hear the opprelled-—and their cause defend :
Break ev'rv chain that cramps the freebornmind,
Hi® 1 vengeance on the tyrants of mankind-
May those who struggle in the noblest cause,
44 The Rights of Man,"" on just and equal laws,
Superior rife to all the arts of pow'r,
And shout thy mercy in the trying hour !
May Poland be supported in her claim,
And difa-ppointment blast the d<ffpot?s aim ;
dens the Ruffian horde be driven,
And hymns of triumph praise the God of he&v'n.
Cure for Consumptions and Ajlkmasyapparentlj in their
Ufi Jluges.
TWO inftanccs are cited in an Englifti paper
of persons (who were so far gone in the above
difordersas to be given over by their physicians)
being cured of these complaints Ixftnohng, nith~
out swallowing the saliva as it formed in
the mouth—expectorating only the phlegm.—
A correspondent fays he has heard of the most
salutary effe&s being derived in consumptive
cases, from constantly keeping a piece of the
hardest biscuit in the mouth, and swallowing the
saliva it occasions.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Elizabeth, Farrie, ♦ Glasgow
Ann, Foster, St. Feterlburgh
Ariel, Decatur, N. York&rHavredeGrace
Brig Fame, Hughs, Cadiz
Sch'r Ariel, Carver, Boston
Betsey, Earle, Virginia
Sloop Hannah, Butler, Rhode-Mand
Sally, Burlingham, ditto
Little William, Dtinfcomb, Havanria
Nancy, Ellwood, N. York
Samuel, Middleton, Charleftot)
a ' PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 ptT ?«tl.
3 per.Gem*,
Defetred,
Full lharcs Bank U. S.
(hares.
j 8
60
I tfST 7h: Riru»iiCA>, (Jo. I.—A C«ar«»—
o!kcrf(iuirs,Jh*it<fpt*r'*sJ*rn«i fatflHt.
{ Int. off,
>a\f\ S
KIJ 7
per ccnt, prcftx.Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-llrcet, New-York,
THE Sabfctiber intending to confine htmiel
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE o,
STOCKS ON COMMISSION, Beg»leave to ofter
his iervices to his friends and other., in the lint
ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor htm with their buftnefs, may depend upon
hav.n, tttranfaftedw.th.be utmott fidelity and
from PMladelphia.Bofton, or any other
part ol the Untied States will be Itnttly a.tem -
cd to.
LEONARD BLEECKER
(t.I.)
May t
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON, and other
Booksellers in PhiladclDhia,
A Coiuaionof PSALMS, HYMNS, andl SPI
/VRITUAL SONGS; klcflcd (rom di"< «»'
Authors, and publilhtd by Order of the Con
vention holding the Doanne ol the Salvation ol
allJMen, nWt in Philadelphia, M3 J\ 2 s''? q '-
Price ol a single book, bound, 3-Bths of a Dollar,
with eood allowance to those who take quantiiles.
Augiift 4 - {CVXL)
Strayed or Stolen,
FROM ihe fubfjriber, on the night of (he >Bth
inflani, Irom ihe inclofure of John Clark,
ojf Trenton TowndVip, Hunterdon couniy, Ntw
hifcy, o Chefnut Sorrel MARE, about nine years
old, touiteen and an half hands high, bald faced,
white feet and eyes, a bunch on her left and ntar
fide occasioned by a'huri, small long neck, thin
mane, Ihortifh tail, (hod all round : Whofoevt r
will lake up said Mare, and reiurn her either to
'oh n Clark, of Trenton, Richard Varian,
New-York, or the fubfenbtr in Danbuiy, Fair
field county, State of ComxfHcut, (hall leceive
EIGHT DOLLARS REWARD tor the Marc and
Thief, or FOUR DOLLARS for the Mare only.
JAMES TROWBRIDGE.
Trenton, (N.J.) Sept. 18, 1792.
Ne w-Brunsw ick
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circumstances of a gentleman
who had undertaken to difpofeof a propor
tion of the tickcts in the New-Brutifwick Church
Lottery, having, in his opinion, rendered it incon
venient for him further to proceed in the lalc
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
ets are unexpectedly the Reltor,
Church-Wardens and Veftry-mtn. This lays the
Managers under the neceflity of further adjourning
the drawing Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of Oftobcr next, that they may have time to tranf
mil these tickcts to the parts of the (late where they
aie applied for, and teceive the returns As there
are but few tickets besides these remaining on
hand, all persons who are disposed to promote the
pious object of this Lottery, or to take a chance
for the pnzestherein, are requeued to supply them
ielves by the firft ot O&ober; and the gentlemen
appointed to difpofc of them, aie dtTircd to return
those to the Managers which then remain unfold,
to answer the applications of some gentlemen in
the neighbourhood, who are postponed to this re
source for a supply.—And notice is hereby given,
that the tickets not returned to the Managers by
the eighth day of Odlober, will be considered as
at the rifle of the holders.
N. B. Robirt Morris, Esq. of New-Brunf
wick, is duly chosen one of the Managers of the
said Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law. (eptOi)
100 Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cambridge Common, MaiTachufetts,
011 the afternoon of the 18th ult. a Morocco
'POCKET-BOOK, with a steel clasp, containing
a number of valuable papers, among which Were
the following Public Securities, viz.
Maflachufetts State Notes—No. 2,425, dated
December x, 1782, payable to Thomas Greenwood,
lor £.* 3 16s. principal—No. 22,399, dat «d Ja
nuary x, 1785, payable to Nathaniel Partridge, for
£.10 10s. principal.—No. , dated January
1, 1782, fan army note) payable to Timothy How
ard, for/". 8 Br. id. principal. — No. , a Not«r
number, date, and to whom payable, not
known) for 3 oj. 3d. principal.—One Indent
Certificate for Four Dollars, and a New-Hamp
shire Certificate for about £. 12 pavable to John
And Daniel Jenks ; also a number of N'otes of Hand,
one of which wis for 572 given by Nafhan
Bond to Samuel W. Pomeroy\by whom it was en
dowed J dated ill May, and pavable on the
1 xth August following ; the others were all paya
ble to the Subscriber. The Securities are checked
at \he different otfVccs from whence they were
iflued, and the Notes of Hand by the different
signers, they can therefore be of no use to anv but
the oWner.
The Subscriber hereby offers a reward of One
Hundred Dollars to any person or perfon l .
who has found the fame, and will return them 10
him, or leave (hem with the Printer hereof, and
no questions be asked.
. ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Saltnt, Mitfachufelts, Augujl t, 1792. (eptl)
The SUBSCRIBERS to the
Universal Tontine
Are informed, that a general meeting is to be held
at the Statc-Houfe in this city, on Satuiday the 3d
day ot November next, at 10 o'clock, A M
agreeably to the sixth article of their association.'
By order of the Agents,
»7 , EB c ENfiZER HAZ ARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Sept. 13,17-92. (eptN^)
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Of the very si.st quality, and la,eft impoitation
from Canton, T ia New-York, by tetail.at
No. 19,
Thud,between Chefnut and Market Streets.
BOWEN's FXHIBITION OF
Wax-Work & Paintings,
AT the House lately occupied by Mrs. Pine,
in Eighth-street, is now ready for the en
tertainment of the Public.— Among a great
variety of Paintings, are a number oi
ITALIAN & FRENCH PIECES,
which are new and very pleaiing.
Also, a large collection ol
NEW WAX FIGURES.
The Exhibition is open every day, from nine
o'clock in the morning, until nine in the even
ing. Admittance HalT a Dollar for Lauics
and Gentlemen, and half price lor Children.
Tickets for the season, (not transferable)
Two Dollars.
For Sale, at the Exhibition Rooms,
LIKENESSES of the PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES, in WAX,
And a variety of Elegant PRINTS in Frames.
Sept. 21. (eptf)
B () O K S,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
M ATHEW CAREY,
Nv. 118, Morhtt-Strict, Philadelphia.
i. A MERICANMUSfcUM.fiom itscommence
£\. ment in January 1787, 10 June 1792, in
eleven vo.s. Price, neatlv bound and lettered,
seventeen dollars and three filths.
This f'oik, which is now conduced on an im
prov« d plan, containing the befl pieces
tor and a gain ft the proceedings ol government,
will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural,and miscellaneous eifays,
as any ever publiihed in America, Perhaps in no
one work are To many valuable documents refpe£K
ing the htftoiy of this country, collected together.
| His Excellency the President of the United States,
I has declared of it, that " a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deTerving ot public encouragement."
The fub'feripti</n is two dollars and a halt per
aim. Gentlemen in the country who wish to
be supplied with this work, are requelled to give
commiflion to friends in the city to fubferibe for
and receive it* Any of the back numbers
may be had in order to complete fcts.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on Nurs
ing and the management of Children.
44 We recommend these letters to the perusal of
those to whom they are particularly addrefTed."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101—Price, bound,
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—so cents.
6. Ladies' Pocket Lnrary, containing Miss
More'sEflays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone on command ot Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Piice a dol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, l. l o. profellbr of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : 44 We
have seen nothing on these fubjetts more plain,
more perfpicuouy, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the University in Phi
ladelphia.
9. Be.auties of Poetry. Price four-fifths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's .Sermons. Price two dollars.
xi. N< cker'sTreat ife on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
iz. Examination of the Obfervatiorts of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 81 hs of a dollar.
' 3. The Con dilutions of the several United States,
with the Federal Conllitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Price three-fighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths ol
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate B;
bit, in quarto—Price,elegantly bound and lettei
ed, 50/2—plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecura—Price a
dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Christian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. Hwlory of Charles Grandifon, abridged
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
of a dollar.
23. Selc£t Poems, chiefly American-—Price a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large afTortment of
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the most reasonable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied in
the most fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries,
or 10 fell agtin.
George-Town.
A Numberof LOsS in every fitumon which
'X may be deftred in City ot Wasiukctoh
will be offered for sale by the Commiflionns, <>r
Monday the Bth day of October m xt. One toimh
part of the money to be paid down, the rcfidue 10
three equal annual payments, with yearly lntereft
on the»>hole principal unpaid.
JOHN M'GANTT, Clerk
June 2, 1792.
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR
AN ALPHABETICAL LIST of the Duties
payable on ail Goods, Wares ami Merchan
dize impo.ted into. Lhe United States ; exhibiting
the Rates payable o» tliofe imported in Ships or
Veto-Is of the United" States, and in Foreign Ships
"' Velds; including the additional Duties to
which the icfptftive Articles aie liable.
A L S O,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold—
gradual, d according to Law-Blank Manifefls-
And Blanks (or ibe various Powers ol Attorney
n.ceffary trancing Buuncfs at the Treaty or
at the Bank oT the United States,
143
Treasury Department,
Au Gust 10, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propotals will
be received at the otfice of the Secretary oil
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next inclusive, foi the tup ply ot all Rations
which may be required for the use of the United
bjates, trom ihe hi It day of January 10 the thirty
tirft day of December, 1793, both days inclusive,
a: the places* ,and within the diftritts hereafter
I iiicmioned, vizi
». At any place or places betwixtYni k-Town &
Carli(le,inthe Itateot Pcniifylvania,amt Pmlburgh,
and at Pmiburgh, York-Town and Catliflc.
2. At any place or places lrom Pmlburgtfto iht
mouth of Big Beaver Creek, and at the motiih ol
Big Beaver Creek.
3. At any place or places from the said mouth tfV
the upper fai.sol the fa:d Big Beaver, and at the
uppei tails.
4. At anyplace or places from the said upper
tails to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places lrom the laid Mahoning
ovf to the Head Navigation ot the River Caya
hoga, and at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any place or places trom the laid Head Na
vigation to the mouth of the laid Rivet Cayahoga,
and at the said mouth.
7. At any plate or places betwixt the mouth o!
'the Rig Beaver Creek to ihe mouth of the River
iMufkingum, and up the said River to the Tufca-
Irowas, and at the Tufcarowas, and thence over to
the Cayahoga River, and thence down the faitl
River to its moiirh.
8. At anyplace or places betwixt the mouth o!
the River Mufkirtgum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, and at the mouth of the said River Scioto.
9 At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the mouth of the Great Miami, and from thence
to the Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
10. At any place or places betwixt the mouth oi
the Great Miami, up the laid Miami to and at
Pique Town.
11. At any placeor places from Fort Washington
to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
place or places from Fort Hamilton 10 Fort St.
Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At anv placeor places from Fort St. Clair to
Fort Jefferfon, and at Fort Jrfferfon.
13. At any place or places from Fort Jefferfon to
the field ot a&ion of the 4th of November, 4 791,
and at the said field of action.
14. At anv place or places from the said field of
action to the Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
15. At any place or places from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls of ihe Miami River, which
empties into Lake Erie, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at its mouth.
16. At anv place or places from the inouih of the
said Miami River of Lake Erie toSandufky Lake,
and at Sandufky Lake.
i 17. At any place or places from ».he fa'd Sanaufky
Lake to the mouth of the River Cavahoga.
18. At anv place or places from the mouth of thi
laid River to Prefque I flc, and at Prefque
Jadaghque Lake, and thence over to and at the
said Jadaghque Lake, and ihence down the Alleg
hany River to Fort Franklin.
20. At awy placeor placesfromPrefquelfle toL<
Beuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or places from I.e Beuf to Fort
Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and from thence
to Putfburgh.
22. At any place or places from theßapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of the W.:bafh River, and from
the mouth of the said River to the mouth
| of the River Ohio.
23. At anv or places on the East fide of the
River Mifliflippi, from the mOuth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the Illionois River.
24. At any place or places on the East fide of the,
Mifiiflippi i between the mouth of the Ohio and
the River Margot inclusively.
25. At any place or places from the said River
Margot to the River Yazous inclusively.
26. At any place or places from the mouth of the
laid Wabafh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fort
Knox.
28. At any place or places from Ouiitanou,up the
said WabaSh, to the head navigation of a brancfi"
thereof called Little River, and at the said head
navigation of Little River.
29. At any placc or places from the said bead na
vigation of Little River over to the Miami Village.
30. At anv place or places from the mouth of the
River Tencflee to Orcochappo or Bear Cieek, 011
the said Rive*, inclusively.
31. At any place or places from the mouth of the
River Cumberland to Nalhville, on the said River,
and at Nashville.
And at any place or places within thiity miles
of said Naftiville to the Southward, Weftwatd or
i Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any places, 01
within other diilrifts, not fpecifted in these pro
posals, the price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the comrattor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of pork,
Hall a jill of rum, biandy or Vhtfky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, (
Two poundi nf snap, > prr ,00 rations,
One pound of candles, )
to the Ct>mmiflk>ner*,
[cp't'f]
The rations are to he furnifhed In such quanti
ties as that there shall at all times, during the laid,
irrm, be fufficient for the Con fu nipt ion- of the
troops at each ot the {aid ports, tor the space of ai
Icaft three months in advaftce, in good and whale
fome provifiojis, if the fame ihjM be required.
It is to be undcrftood in each cafe, that all loflVs
fuftaiued by the depredations of the enemy, or b\
means of the troops of the United States, ihall be
paid for at the prices of the articles captured of de
stroyed, on the depositions of two or more credita
ble chara&ers, ahd the certificate of a com irii{Rott
ed officer, aficrtaining the c'ircumtlances of' tht
loss, and the amount of the arttclcs ioi which com
pensation is claimed.
The contract for the above fiipplies will be mad<
either for one year, or for two ycarsj as may appea,
19. At any place orplaces fromPrefque Isle to the
:ream running into Lake Eric from towards the
27. At any place or places from Fort Knox, up
he said Wabafh, to Ouittanon. and at Ouittanon.
ei.giM, Prions j ;nrrim|:
fore counne iln-ir ntfeis to one ,»
rtak S ,heir F op o rmon s ( oil r - '*
of the term of two7cars. 4, »*Uc ,
The offers may comprifc all *Vi#» rxi
_ »,av.
Tre afui y De partment,
NOTICE is hereby gt". "I,
i\b= r ««« d « 'He o*ce of ,l,e Secrt, ~ ,
the r„-.fury, until the iyh day of o£t„b c , *
inclusive, tor the supply „f Tatlo , s «
h-e required lor the u)e of ,br Uimid S,a,,J
HieHrAday ot ja„ ua , y to the thl „
December 1793, b«l„ days inclusive, 3 Spimi',
*n toe State ol MaHachulett s, a „d ibe PoilutWett'
Point, in the State of' Ni w-Volk "
The rations to V ruppl.cd, ate to coifift 0 [
following articles, vi Z .
One pound of bre'?d or flour,
Pne pound of beef, or {of a pound'of oorfe
Half a jill of ram, brandy or *L 1 P '
One quart of fair, }
Two quarts of vinegar, (
Two pounds of soap, C P" 100 tatiotii.
Onft pound of candlts. )
The proposals mav be trade for Whof if,.
Treasury Department,
Nrvrirv i. , Aucl)!T . 20ih,, 7 Q 2 .
OTICL is hereby given, that pwpolaU will
be received at the office of the Secretary of
lie Treasury unul ihe fourlh day of October next
inclusively, tor the fiipply ofthe fallow ng article
ot Clothing for the Troups in iht lcrvice oi
the United States m.
FOR THf INFANTRY and ARTILLERY
4 6o»'flats 18460 Shirts
4608 Coats 7956 Pa.rofSockj
4608 Vests 4608 Blankets
8668 Woolen Overalls 4 6c8 Sfockj
921-6 Linen Overalls 4608 Stock Clafpi
18376 Pair of Shoe. 4608 Pair of Bucklci
FOR IHI CAVALRY.
360 Caps -TOO Pair ot Stockings
360 Coats 1440 Shirts
360 Veils 360 Blankets
360 Pair of Leather 360 Stocks
(Breeches 360 Siork Clalps; also,
720 Pairof Boots 1200 Rifle Shirts, tobe
360 Pair of Spurs (madeol Russia Slieetm-
The above Cloth'njuo be delivered either in
New-York, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the op
tion ot thccontra&or or contractors, on or bdote
the 15th day of June, 1793.
The piopofals inay corrfprife the whole of the
before-mentioned Clothing, or any one or more
of thecomponeni articles; to be furnilhed agreea
bly to patterns or fpeCimcns, which willbefluwn
at the War Office. Good security willberrquir.
Ed for the punctual and faithful performance of
the contract. The payment will be on she dcli»e
ry of the Clothing, or, if necelfarv, such ftafona
hle advances will be made as the Secretary of the
Treasury fliafl deem expedient.
War Department,
August 6, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby gwcn to all the
Military Invalids of the United States, tb«
the lums to which they arc intitled lor fix mouth,
of their annual petition, from the 4th day of Match
1792, and which will become due on the sth dav
oi September 1792, will be paid on tire (aid day
by the Commifiioncrs of the Loans within the
Slates relpe£lively, under the usual regulations,v.z.
Every application paytnent'muft be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
: ft. The certificate given by the state, fpecifyiog
that the person poflVfling the fame is in fl& an in
valid, and afccitaining the lum to whicb as such he
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form
A. B. came brjore me, one ej the
ounty of in the Jiate of and made oathtwt
e is the fame A. B. to whom the original certijii'te
n his pojfcflion was given, of vihiikrlhcJ»Uwiu>g "
i copy (the certificate given by the Jute to be rtrMi)
That he fervcd (regiment,toip> or veMj 1
the time he was disabled, and that hj now "J"! "
the and iounty of aid hi ie/u:J
therefor the UJI years, pfeviius to vhlih he rt
sided in
In cafe an invalid should applv if* payment bv
an attorney, the said attorney, betides the ccth •
cate and oath before recited, must produce a lpe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to ihe to .owin 6
form
r, A. B. of county tf_' *
hireby conJlituU avd 'I
attorney, to rrcewc » my M#J of *! r_r
for f,x month, « « «*»M ojtk
from the fourth day of Mofch < m f bjH/*.
hundred and nimtytwo, and <ndt*g tk fJ
September, «be (houjandfeven kuuM*nitin<^y-
Signed ii»d foaled
in the prefeoce of
Acknowledged before me, „;rtiatnrs
Applications of executors and » ' o(| , lf , r
mud be accompanied with legal evil e |
refpeftive office, and alio of the i.meibc >n™»
died, whoTe pension they may claim
15v command of the
Piefident of the Uniteo States,
H. KNOX, Sicil^t'J
RT The Printers in ihe re V®|* f,' e '3(L
requested to publish the above .»
en, for the space of two months.
plans
OFT H*
City of Wafliington,
Sold by the B-roKSttUltS;
DOBSOM, CAREY,
$T The price tftkis o**"*
anrwm —One kalfu f' 4 " "" "JJ '
I
H
| Ifilujll.