[No. 86, oi Vol. lII.] Wednesday, February 22, 1792.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE
NOVEMBER 17.
AVIGNON.
THE minister of the home department pro
duced difparches, which the comniiflioners
of the king employed for the purpose of reflor
ing the tranquillity of Avignon, had addrel'ed
to him by nn extraordinary courier.
They announce, ' that their endeavours had
succeeded to the fatisfartion of the unfortunate
inhabitants, whom the ruffians of the army of
Monteox, called Patriot, had pillaged and mafia
cred with impunity. The French troops are in
pofT'effinii of Carpentras and Avignon, to thegreat
diCpleafure of these ruffians. Those who had
fled f'm consternation now return to their
liomes. One Lecuyer had pillaged the inhabi
tants of Avignon ; he was mafTacred. His friends
took oicafioti to ravage the town, and under the
pretext of avenging his death, killed all tlieper
fons of probity whom they detested.
" They plunged them into the prisons of the
palace, and there mnflacred them in cold blood.
Sons were murdered in the prefenee of their fa
thers! mothers expired on the bodies of their
sons ! nlns ! <11 perished miserably !-—[The aflem
bly ftiuddered with horror; shrieks were utter
ed, expressive of the deepefl concern. J
" Barbarity spared not even the bodies of the
unfortunate vitftims :—they were beheaded, cut
in pieces ; — the bodies of women were embow
elled ! the mangled remains—("Here, M. MOll
- could proceed no farther, his frame wascon
v til fed, the paper dropt from his hands, he co
-vered his face, and fled with precipitation from
the tribune. His flight was behind in a gloomy
silence : of so numerous an aflembly not oneper
fon was found, whose curiosity had so far maf
rered his feelings as to oppose his departure, or
demand his return.]
After a panfe of horror, M. lfnard, the fecre
rary, was ordered to proceed with the recital.—
" These mangled remains of their fury were
thrown into a ditch, colled Glaciere du Palais :
the entrance was closed up ; we discovered this
tomb, and caused it to be opened. A putrid
flench rendered it aJmoft inaccessible ; we, how
ever, caused it to be examined with proper pre
cautions, in order, if possible, by the number of
heads, to discover how many lives had been loft.
[The aflembly resounded with a mingled excla
mation of indignation and sorrow.]
" A crowd of unfortunate citizens came every
day to embrace our knees, and demand of us
their fathers, husbands, children and friends,
whose bodies were among the numberof thelixty
■virtims butchered at the caflle.
" It appeared to us indispensable to cause to
be arretted all the persons concerned in autho
rity at Av.gnon at the period of the mafl'acre :
the Sieurs Jourdan and Tonrnel are arretted;
the firtt was distant a league from Avignon, the
other attempted to fly, after discharging a pirtol
at the officer who was going to seize him ; he at
firtt Caved hi in (el f by clambering along the roofs,
but fell, and having a leg broken, was taken.
"We arrelfed the young Lecuyer, who, in
cited by an in Pitiable thirtt of blood, in order to
avenge his father, maflacred sixteen priioneis of
the palace.
" All these fa<fts have been authenticated : the
national afiembly, perhaps, regret having heard
at its bar, an emillary of the ruffians, who had
the audacity to acctife Mr. Mulot, the coininif
fioner of pacification. We are," &c.
The aflembly referred these dispatches to the
committee of legislation.
LONDON, December 7.
Amongst other lingular properties of charcoal,
It has lately been discovered by a gentleman at
i^eterfburgh, that all forts of glass velfels and
other utensils may be purified from long retain
ed fmehs and taints of every kind, in the eafiefl
and most perfecft manner, by rincing them well
one with charcoal reduced to a fine powder, afte)
their grofler impurities have been fconred off
*v:ih sand and pot-ash. That people wliofe breath
Smells strong from a scorbutic disposition of the
gums, mav at any time get perfectly rid of this
bad fine 11 by rubbingand washing out the mouth
thoroughly with fine charcoal powder. Thisfim
ple application, at the fame time, renders the
teeth beautifully white. And that brown (or
otherwise coloured) putrid (linking water may
t>e deprived ol its offenfive find], and rendered
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
transparent by means of the fame substance.
Hence he thinks it would be of use for preserv
ing water sweet during sea voyages, to add about
5I b. of coatfe charcoal powder to every calk of
water ; it being only neceflary afterwards to
flrain the water off, when wanted, through a li-1
nen bag.
The exhibition of legs in Mrs. Cowley's Co
medy, reminds us of a bon mot of George Sel
wyn's, who, on being asked how he liked the
then rage for short petticoats, obfierved, he liked
it extremely well, and did not care to what
height the fafhion was carried !
Scottish plaids, to be used as furtouts, are be
come the fafhion in Dublin. The Irifli manu
facturers refeniing this, have begun to cut tliein
in the Itreets, at night, and lerious affrays are
apprehended.
Of the fafhionable colours in the Female world
at present, the firft is, the York flame, compli
mentary in its title, of course, to the Duchess—
It is a dark shade, something between a Coqueli
cot and a Maroon. The second, the Maiden's
bhjh, a pale pink. Between these two we are
likely to have a inarm winter.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ODE.
OAY, Muse, to whose illustrious name
Shall I attune my vocal (hell;
That while the Lyric note I fwi 11,
My song may gain the meed of lasting fame ?
Shall he who in the realms of day,
Cloth'd with immortal state,
Treads the bright clouds beneath his fret.
And holds high converse with the good and great—
Shall Fr ankli n's name immortalize the lay ?
44 Lo! in the bright abode of fame—
44 To virtue and to wisdom dear,
44 In words as lading as this earthly frame,
44 Still brightening with the rolling year,
45 There (lands infci ib'd a glorious Patriot's name !
44 When Britain, with ambition mad,
44 Sought to enslave Columbia's land ;
44 Her Generals font with pow'rclad,
44 And pour'd her thousands on the strand
44 The guardian Genius of your S:ates,
44 With swelling indignation view'd
4! Their swords prcpar'd to spill your blood ;
44 And to avert your threaten'd fates,
44 Flew to Virginia's fertile plain,
44 When Ceres held her golden reign,
44 And gave to him this high command.
44 Go, Hero ol undaunted mind,
44 Go—leave thy rural enres behind ;
44 With all thy (kill and force oppose
44 Thy country's fierce, ambitious foes,
44 And from the threaten'd ruin save my land."
44 Scarce had your Guardian spoke the word,
44 When o'er his shoulder hung the sword ;
44 And to the field, with eager haste,
" To meet your Foe, the Hero pafs'd.
44 There horrid stood the British god of war,
'• A lion dreadful rose upon his ihield ;
44 His head was cover'd with a blazing star ;
44 In a£t to fttike a flaming spear he held.
14 No terror toueb'd the god-like Hero's breast;
44 He rulh'd impetuous on the furious foe,
44 Waich'd rv'ry motion, when to give the blow ;
44 Wound follow'd wound, 'till overcome with toil
44 The Foe retn'd; still on the Hero prefs'd,
44 And (buck the blow that fore'd him from your foil.
44 Curs'd be the hour (the raging warrior said)
44 When flnfh'd with hope, I fought in bloody fray
44 To fcizea jewel for Britannia's head,
4 ' And my rich spoils in triumph bear away.
11 I fame, in fancy lure of victory,
44 To meet a puny, dastard iace of men,
44 Who fwift befoie mv voice And spear would fly,
44 As deer, when ruflied the lion from his den.
" Am I defeated ?—No, 'tis but a dream-—
44 A mere delusion of my wilder'd brain :
" Bui ah I I fee the crimson-slowing stream,
"O'er all my limbs I feel the raging pain.
" But sure the Vi&or moie than man rnuft he—
" Great as a god in (kill, a god in pow'r;
44 His look was awful as Jove's majesty—
44 And who but he, such thundering deaths could (how'i
" If man-—tranfeendent over mortal man,
44 In vvond'rous (kill, and valor in the war ;
" As the dread eagle o'er the tim'rous clan
44 Of feather'd tribes that wing the yielding air."
" ThCsfpoke the baffl'd Britifii God of War;
44 A chilling horror (hiver'd thro' his veins—
c; With terror wild he caught his broken spear—
44 He fled—and left to peace these happy plains.
44 When the great Patriot's conqueiing sword
44 Had to his country peace reftor'd,
*' To those who g3ve, he now refign'd his pow'r :
44 And feeling in his noble 6reaft,
44 Such holy jny as all the blcft,
44 Find for reward w!:en their hard conflict's o'er—
si Retir'd to his rural feat,
44 To pafls his da>s in calm and wait the stroke of faie.
<4 Soon (>v the grateful nation's geneial choice,
44 Elcfled to the lofty Chair of State,
44 He left his happy place, his calm retreat,
,4 Obedient to the people's honoring voice.
341
[Whole No. 294.]
" No base ambitious thirst of sway
'• Dwells in the Hero's generous mind,
" Pure as the lambent flame of day,
" Bright burns his Patriot-love refin'd.
" In (forms of war he fhow'd the soldier how
" To quell the fierce, and lay the haughty low :
" And now he a leflon to the great,
" How they, in peace, fhou'd rule a treeborn (late,
t " TR y™» Faith and Justice, walking hand in hand,
44 Diffufe sweet union thro' the happy land.
" I fee the fairer virtues wait
" Attendant round his chair of Aate :
Sweet Mercy ! with her bleeding breast,
Humility ! true wisdom's guest,
" The brigheft daughter of the sky,
" Hlclf Chanty ! with smiling eye.
" These form the wreath
" That blooms in death,
" More bright and glorious to behold,
Than funs ot diamonds in a CTown ofgold»
As men in northern climes, long veil'd in night
" With rapture bless the fun's returning light,
So do ad miring crowds with boundtefs mirth,
" Honor the day that gave this Patriot birth.
His glorious name ! thro' wondering nations spread,
Receives the homage of uuiought applauie :
" The Gallic fpiric from his iron bed
Efcapd; (where long confin'd in galling chains
" He wept with unavailing tears, his pains,)
" Exulting bleiles him the distant cause.
" Would'ft thou acquire the meed of fame,
'• And lift from earth thy humble name ?
" Pour the Iweet incense of melodious praise
" lohim, let WASHINGTON renown thy lays.
Ah muse ! thou know'ft too-well-
T boalt no Heav'n-iaught (kill ;
r . :_ _ l • i
That I can ne'er aspire his deeds to tell
E'en now a tremor thro' my frame I fee*,
And in despair I drop my vocal shell.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, February 3, 1792.
hi committee of the whole, on the Fijhcry Bill.
[CON TINU ED.J
MR. A M ES,
AFTER some introdu&ory obfervations,adverted to the necef
litv of fixing some point in which both fides would agree.
Dilputes he said, could not be terminated, or more properly, they
could not be managed at all if some firft principles were not con
ccded. The parties would want weapons for the controversy.
Law is in some countries the yoke of government, which bends
or breaks the necks of the people—but thank heaven, in this coun
try it is a man's shield ; his coat of mail, his castle of fafety ; 'tis
more than his defence—'tis his weapon to punifti ihofe wtio in
vade his rights—'tis the instrument which assists—'tis the pricc
that rewards his industry.
If I fay that fifhermen have equal rights with other men, every
gentleman feels in his own bosom a principle of afTent ; If I fay
that no man shall pay a tax on fending his property out of the
country, the conftituiion will confirm it ; for the constitution fays
no duty Jhall be laid on exports : If I fay, that on exporting dried
fifli, the exporter is entitled to drawback the duty paid on the
fait, I fay no more than the law of the land has confirmed..
Plain and short as these principles are, they include the whole
contioverfy : For I consider the law allowing the drawback as
the right of the fifhery ; the defe&s of that law as the wrong fuf
fered, and the bill before us as the remedy.
The defeats of the law are many and grievous. Dollars.
Supposing 340,000 quintals exported, the fait duty is 42,744
The drawback is only ... 34,000
Lois to the fifhery,
Whereas government pays
at 132 cents including charges, which are 3! cents on a
quintal : Which is beyond what the fifhery receives 11,900
And a clear loss to government of - - o,i^6
So that though the whole is intended for the benefit of the fiih
ery, about one fourth of what is paid is not so applied : there is
an heavy loss both to government and the filhery.
Even what is paid on the expoi tis nearly loft money; the boun
ty is not paid till the exportation—nor then till fix months have
elapfcd : Whereas the duty on fait is paid before the filh is taken;
it is paid to the exporter, not to the fifherman. The bounty is
so indirefl that the poor fifherman loses fight of it. It is paid to
such perform, in such places, and at such periods, as to disappoint
its good effe&s—palling through so many hands, and paying so
many profits to each, it is almost absorbed. The encouragement
too is grrateft in fuccefsful years when lealt needed—and is lcaft
in bad fifhing seasons when tis molt needed.
It is a very perplexed cmbairafling regulation to the officers of
government and to the exporter —hence the gteat charge; and with
all tins charge and irouble it is liable to many frauds. 400 miles
bf coast— little towns, no officer.
All thefc defe£U the bill remedies—and besides, gives the mo
ney on condition that certain regulations are submitted to, which
arc worth almoO as much as the money.
The bill is defended on three grounds—lft it will promote the
national wealth —2d the national lately—3d justice requires it ;
the last is fully relieH on.
To shew that the filhery will increase the wealth of the nation,
it cannot be improper to mention its great value.
&Uso
ULI.IN.
8,744
45.9°°The export before the war, brought more than a million of
dollars into this country ; probably it is not less at present, and
no small part in gold and silver : It is computed that 30,000 per
sons, including 4,000 seamen subsist by it. Many fay very corn
pofedly, if it will not maintain itfelf let it fall. But we should
not only lose the annuaT million of dollars which it brings us ; an
immense capital would be loft. The fithing towns are built on
the naked rocks or barren sands on the fide of the sea. Those
spots however, where trade would sicken and die, which hus
bandry scorns to till, and which nature seems to have devoted to
eternal bJJrrennefs, are feletted by industry to woik miracles on :
Houses, stores and wharves are ercfted. and a vafl property crea
ted —all depending on this bufinefs.—Before you think it a light
thing to consign them to ruin, fee if you can compute what they
eoft ;if they outrun your figures, then confefs that'it would be
bad economy as well as bad policy to fufter rival nations to rum
our fifherv.
The regulations of foreign nations tend to bringthis ruin aboutj;
France and England equally endeavor, in the language of the Se
cretary of State, to mount their marine on the deftru&ion of our
fifhery.
The fifh of Newfoundland is allowed liberal bounties by the
English government ; and in the French Weft-Indies—we meet
bounties on. their fifh, and duties on our own, and thefc amount
to the price of the fifh : From the English iHands we are quite (hut
out— yet such is the force of our natural advantages that we have
not yielded to these rivajs. The Scciftary of State has Hated
these, and 6th, of his report.
The more fifh we catch the cheaper ; the English fifh will need
a greater bounty—whereas if we should yield, the English would
probably need no bounty at all ; they would have the monopoly.
For example, suppose the English can fifh at two dollars the quin
tal—we catch so much that we fell at one dollar and two thirds;
the loss to them is J dol. each quintal. They mufl have that sum
as a bounty.
W-heieas if we encreafe our fifhery, a greater and a greater
bounty is needed by foreign nations—the contest so painfully sus
tained by there mufl be yielded at last, and we shall enjoy alone
an immense fund of wealth to the nation, which nature has made
ours ; and though foreigners disturb rhe poflefiion we shall finally
enjoy it peaceably and exclufivelv. If the lands of Kentucky are
invaded, you drive off the invader, arid so you ought—why not
protest this property as well.
Tfiefe opinions are fnpported by no common authority.---The
State of MafTachufetts having reprcfented the difcouragcments of
the filherv, the fubjeft has received the fanftion of the Secretary
ol State ; he confirms the facts stated in the petition ; he fays it is
too poor a bufincfsto pay any thing to government. [S« page 12.]
Yet instead of a(king bounties, or a remission of the duties on
the articles consumed, we a(k nothing, but to give us our own
money back, which you received under an engagement to pay it
back, in cafe the article should be exported.
If nothing was in view therefore, but to promote national
■wealth, it frems plain that this branch ought to be protested and
preserved ; because, under all the discouragements it fuffers, it
encieafes, and every vearmcreand more enriches the coutuiy,
and promises to become an inexhauftable fund of wealth.
Another view has been taken of thefubjeft which is drawn from
the naval protection afforded in time of war by a filherv.
_ Our coasting and foreign trade are increasing rapidly; but the
richer our trade becomes, the better prize to the enemy': So lar
from protecting us it would be the very thing that would tempt
bim to go to war with us. As the rice and the tobacco plantei
cheerfully pay for armies and turn out in the militia to protest
their property on shore, they cannot be so much deceived as to
with to have it left unprsteaed when it is afloat ; especially when
it is known that this proteflion, though more effc£tual than the
■whole revenue expended on a navy could procure, will not cost a
farthing ; on the contrary, it will enrich while it piotcflsthe na
tion. The coasters and other seamen in the event of a war would
be doubly in demand, and could neither protest themfelvcs nor
annov the enemy to any confiderablc degree; but the Sfhermen
thrown out ol business by a war, would be instantly in action
They would as they formerly did, embark in privateer-—having
nothing to lose, and every thing to hope, thev would not difho
nor their former fame. Their mode of life makes them exnert
and hardy feamcn. Nothing can he more adventurous They'
cad anchor on the banks. 300 leagues from land, and with a ercat
length ol cable ride out the storms of winter : If the gale proves
too strong they often fink at their anchors, and are food for filh
which they came to take ; lor ever wet, the sea almost becomes
their cement—cold and labor, in that region of fro ft, brace their
bodies and they become as hardy as the Bears, on the islands of
ice; their (ktU and spirit are not inferior— familiar with danger
they defpifc it. If I were to recite their exploits the theme would
find every American heart already glowing wilh the recoiled!,on
ol them ; it would kindle more emhnfiafm than the fubieft has
need of: My view is only to appeal to lasts to evince the impor
tance of the filhery as a means of naval protection. It is nrooer
to pars over Bunker's hill, though memorable by the valor of a
regiment of fifbermen ; nor is it necelTaiy to mention further that
500 fifliermcn fought at Trenton.
It i. known that the privateers man'd by fiffiermen, in want of
every thing, not excepting arms, which thev depended on takine
from their enemies-brought into port warlike fto.es of every
rnv 35 eV " y us mcrchan< ' i « Sufficient for ,he ar!
my and the country : the war could not be carried on without
them. Among other exploits almost beyond belief, one instance
» worth relating-—these people in a privateer of ,6 guns and t S o
men, ,n one crutfe took more than 20 Ihips with upwards of 200
guns and nearly 400 men.
The privateers from a single diftria of MatTachufetts where the
fifher y k chiefly seated, took, more than 2,000 veflVls beinal ♦
the Br,till, merchant vtfTels, and brought ,n near , 200.' An hun
every
co Uld 5 o shi PS of < h p e Hoc affor p d
buret of the fifhery alwavs ready, always foment, wilcoftnT
<hmg. The fupe.,or naval force ol our foes should not difcouraae
rhe ; ;;;:,r ,vat " rswould " rucl,k = fom^
'• r so^ car ,o
bill on another ground. ' 'L m y Support of the
I will only alTc whether you will onnrr r <; ifv/%., n
rage .hem— whether if you will norTive them «h
public, you Will partially feiie.hr,/own. TOsi.'S ° f (l[ ,he
If your pol'cy demands for them so much will v on , n V
them so little ? uiyour justice deny
I have repeatedly aflerted that tVipkiii "n
a farthing, you only take the money which IheTfoe pub,ic
theTreafurv for the fait duty, and nav the r m [V brings into
in bounties, inflead of a drawback on the v"" sum back
here I reft the argument. Before' 1 adduce my ■ '
forbear to lay open theOate ol mv mind P root s. I cannot
I rely on the truth of the facts I nmnrX. . rr
the proof of them, being a, near demonftrat m 't 1 VC ' y 0n
the cafe will admit ; I make no do,,bt of the BoodVnf* "T* ° f
intentions of the gentlemen whom I wifK to con ? "° d
am lorry to lay lam far from hemp-fan • , con^ ncc » anrf yet 1
ing a finglr vote for the bill. I w f M exolam" ° pe ° f B>in
ihen I ihmk no gentleman will take r , r ™l;n m " n,n E and
depends on calculation. In print or writing "" " : - T '" s dcbate
fat ion, figures have the advantage of every mheV
gat,on : the mind is fixed to a point and J,A . ■Qt ,nTefli
ly.—But in publtc debate it i.o.wffe t P "" ! " c'w
« wite—figures not only disgust
attention, fcu% as the mind cannot carry thrm along, t.iey con
found it ; they make a plain thing look mysterious, and bring it
into suspicion ; when I ask of the committer an hearing-, and it is
granted, I get nothing—l want a close attention, and I have to
beg, and earnestly too. that gentlemen will not trust their fir ft o
pinions and vote against the bill, without condescending to re
ceive and to weigh the fa£ts and calculations of its advocates.
The firfl qurftion is, how much docs government receive by the
duty on the fait used in curing the fifh which is exported.
The quantity of lifh mull be known.
Several ways of information are to be explored.
The Secretary of State supposes the fifh of 1790, to be 354,276
quintals.
A treasury return of fifh exported from Aug. 20th, 1789, to
Sept. 30th, 1790, which is 13^-months, is 378,721 quintals.
For a year equal to 340,849
See Secretary's Report, page 16.
Foreign dried fifh imported from 15th Anguft, 1789, to August
1 79°» 37 01 quintals—s per cent, drawback thereon is only 310
dollars,at i|- dollars per quintal.
Mr. Giles is mistaken in supposing that foreign fifh dcdu&s
16,000 dollars from oureftimate.
Return of fifh in 7 months, from May 30th to December, 1790,
exported—all fifli of the United States, 197,278 quintals ;
Which for a year is 338,184 do.
The medium may be fairly taken for the time pad at 340,000
quintals a year.
Six gentlemen of Marblehead certify, that 5043 hogsHeads, or
40,344 bushels of fait were used on 38,4973 quintals ; which for
340,000 quintals, gives 356,200 bushels.
The duty at 12 ccnts is 42,744 dollars, which government re
ceives.
But the charge to the United States is, at 13J cents doI!.«.
per quintal, 45,900
Whereof the fifliery receives 10 cents on each quintal
exported,
Charges as the law stands
Further this is but an estimate made up from what the last year
proved. The next mav be very different, and probably it will
be. If more monev should be demanded than 44,000 dollars,we
must not be accused of misleading Congress. But in that cafe an
increase would be made by the law—for the more fifh is exported
the more igi cents to be paid ; so that the bill creates no burden
in that way. Bur rfie increase of the export of fifh will
operate in favor of government. For it is known that the econo
my, skill and a&ivitv of the fifherv are making progress. It's
luccefs has progressed. The more fifh to a vefTel, the cheaper the
allowance on the tonnage—Therefore the tonnage of vefTels will
not ir.creafe in a ratio with the increase of the filb.
The very obje&ions prove this. For they deem the encourage
ment too great. But anv encouragement mud have the cffe£l.
The difference of the x greemepts for distributing the fifh accord
ing to the present pra&ice, or by this bill, makes a great one in
the quantity taken. The bill reform!? the practice in this point.
Marble head veflels take less than those from Beverly. The for
mer throw the fifh into a common stock, which is afterwards di
vided upon a plan very unfriendly to exertion. A man works
lor the whole—perhaps 12 hours, and they take about 800 quin
tals to a vefTel. But in Beverley, the exertion is as great as can
oe made—lß hours a day, because each man has what he catches,
and they catch noo quintals..
Marblehead seamen failinf; from other town?, and dividing as
last mentioned, which the bill eftablifV.es, frldom fail to catch 2
300 qu,nta, Sm ° re Chanel, and men from Marblehead on
the hrlt plan Accordingly I assert on good authority, that the
increase in Marblehead only may be computed at 1 c,ooo quintals,
merely in confeqtiencc ofthe reform by the bill. ' The heft in
armed persons whom I have consulted, entertain no doubt that
he export in cafe the bill should pass, would not be less than
400,000 quintals, probably more—but at 400,000 quintals, it
would add 7,200 dollars more to the fait dutv : a sum more
increase of it, 4a[74^ mate a£lUa ' '° nnage ' ° r P robabl?
7J?.00
49-944 Salt duty on 400,000 quintals.
the ° ry ' that flc,H and 3re
creaiing in this bulinefs.
In 2 5f° 0 > fnm ™ 440.5- Fish fold for ~07.,000 dolls,
fifh It i* ' [° a T n and l ths of the tonnage, take a, much
h,sthatourfi^ftood the
w "'" d - - »
Salt duty on which
Bounties
43,944 dollars.
44,000
Wanted ,
The calculation firftmade will an Twer the puroofe
340,000 quintals pay fait duty 4? , 74 . t dolhr, '
Tonnage bounty 4 £
Wanted 1256
This is the mighty defefl. Obfcrve the au
e" r " u ™ of the export of fifh may be< "j
exnort 1 3 WI ~rOVe uCO he be,OW l ' he f«nre
expo.t—Whereas to ban.fh all donbt we <m to
the top of the fca!e for the tonnage,
what we know to be the ntmoft. fhis we might
have represented more favorably if we had cho
Buc even ihis will an
tor 200 tons are wanting inthe eftitrate of t he
deficJent°Aim WhiCh Wi "
than another third
wifh'.h*.Z' th """ »f non-compliance
£"Ve,l fill' 7,', "* i" f ™ °f
n,a.„otgno q „l° Boa,,
hivp ri.»; quintals l 0 the ton, or verfels mav
»*r s
"cel., noS/
Kilt these are trifles whirl, t ,
gentlemen are anxious nbonr "H" o ' d ' eVe
WhnUtS U of n fi n r C -u , rt(l,,Ce<l
c:> n teZZ! y hJI W ' f be "» ""'n
"'ore than it will nay 'the Ih™*" 1 vece,ve
other wav and ; r „1' , lan ce may turn >.he
dollars more than ii-/ n u* 6 a fcvv btindred
hoi lt will have received. We have
342
seen that the chance is mod in £vor 8f ce *. rn _
ment. But one chance mull balance the oth*
This answer is sincerely relied bn as a jjofcd Zl'
I barely mention that the wear ofcofih™ d'
bles, fails and anchors is very great. These' ar
ticles on being imported, pay duties. So that
it is probable the extra duty paid by the fifo.-,!
on their extra consumption, will over balance/
ny little Turns supposed to exceed In the bounty'
ft has been asked, as if some cunning wa* de
teifted, why if the money received in the trt»f o "
ry to pay the drawbacks is equal to the proposed
bounties,a further appropriation should be made ?
This cunning question admits of several very si m !.
pie answers.
The bill being for 7 years, the average product
is the proper Jum to be calculated. But the
firft years may fall /hort of the bounties, fayiooo
dollars a year, which is 6000
The 4 last may exceed 2000 8000 "
Shall a poor fifherman wait for the whole, or
if he takes his part according to the money in
the treafury—for a 24th part of the bounty on
his veflel, from 1792 to 179?.
2d. This delay would happen after a bstf year
the very time when he would mo ft need proirfot
pay. r
jd- But fifh taken this year will no; be export
ed till December next. Therefore the money
will not be Hopped by the drawback as the law
stands, till 6 months after.
34» 000
11900
A ftfbftitute has been propoferl for the clause
to appropriate the drawback only.'
This is absolutely improper. For the to cents
allowed as drawback is but a part of the tlutv
paid on l.ilt—lt is not easy to fee any reason why
a part flopped at the treasury Humid be equal to
the whole paid there long before. The draw
back falls near 9000 dollars short of the fait duty
received by the government. The expence of
the drawback would be verv heavy and useless.
Nor may gentlemen apprehend* that govern
ment, by paying next december, will advance
money to the fifhery. The fait, duty will have
been paid, and government will have the trie of
the money many months befpre the filbermen
will have a right to call for the bounties.
It is left to the candor of the gentlemen who
have urged this objection, whether a better or
further answer is desired.
After having laboriously gone thro the estimate
of the probable export of fi(h, it will not be ne
cefl'ai y to he equally minute as to the quantittor
kind of vessels which are to receive the bonti^.
The estimate we belive to be very high. Th*t
it is high enough, we fnppofe very probable from
the estimate of the Secretary ot State, tfhichii
only tq,tßj tons.
This modeof paying the bounty on the tonnage
is very (imple and fafe—The measurement is al
ready made and costs nothing ; and as it was
made to pay a duty on tonnage, we are very fare
that government will not be cheated by an over
nieafure. The mode of paying the drawback,as
the law now flands, is expensive, perplexed and
embarrafiing ; liable to frauds and delays.
This intricate and disgusting detail ofcalcula
tions was neceflary, to fatisfy the committee that
each of the three grounds of defence on which
the bill reds, is tenable.
Instead of impoverishing the nation by scatter
ing the treasure of the whole to benefit a part,
it appears that we are preserving a mine of trea
sure.
In point of naval protection, we can scarcely
estimate the fifhery too highly. It is alvvavsrea
dy. always equal to the object—it is alinoil the
only fufficient source of security by sea. o ur
navigation is certainly a precious interelt of the
country. But no part of our navigation can vie
with the fifhery in tefpect to the protection it af
fords.
There is no point which regards our national
wealth or national fafetv, in refpedl to which it
seems practicable to tlo so much with so little.
We rely on the evidence before you, that the
public will not sustain the charge of a dollar.
Those ought not to doubt the evidence who can
not invalidate it. If then the fifherinen ast: ye"
to restore only their own money, will you deny
them ? Will you return to every other per'" l
exporting dutied goods the money he has p sl "i
and will you reful'e the poor fifhermen !
If there must be an instance of the kind, Wi "
you single out for this opprefiive partiality, that
branch which is described by the. Secretary o
Stare as too poor even to bear its part of the com
mon burden. That branch which neverthe' e<
has borne the neglect of our nation, andtheper*
lecution of foreign prohibitions and duties
A branch which, tho we have received much an
expect more both of money and services, 'i r ? fS
no claims but such as common jufiice has fa» c 1
oned
MONDAY, February 20.
A mefTage from the P efulcnt of ' 1,(5 ', e
States, by his Secretary, Mr. T -a- ' A
HouJV, that the bill, fi'.i 1 • '■ A
lilh the poll-office aiul 5 °* rll[ '
fTO 1* 17 rnNTI VUED.)States," has received his approbation and signa
ture
A message from tbe Senate, by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informed the House, that the a<ft concern
jn<r the fiflieries, and regulating the seamen em
ployed therein, received the approbation and sig
nature of the President of the United States on
the 16th inft. .
A petition and memorial of sundry merchants
of North-Carolina, engaged in commerce before
the late war, was read, and referred to a com
nittee of the whole Houl'e on the Hate of the
Union. r
In committee of the whole on the representa
tion bill—Mr. Livermore in the chair
Mr Seney moved that the 3d and 4th feUions,
which provide for an apportionment of the re
presentation on the second census, &c fhonld be
jtruck out.—This motion occalione<l ion.e de
bate, and was disagreed to.
The blank for the ratio of representation on
the second census, was filled with "thirty thou-
bill was then reported to the House with
the amendments. These were taken into consi
deration, and severally agreed to.
Mr Dayton moved (in the House) to strike
ont tlie second fertion, which provides lor a se
cond enumeration in five years—and called the
ayes and noes—which are as follow :
MeflTrs. Barnwell, Boudinot, S. Bourne, B.
Bourne, Clark, Dayton, Gilman, Goodhue, Rill
houfe, Key, Kitchell, Learned, Livermore, Niles,
Schoontnaker, Seney, J. Smith, Sturges, Sylves
ter, Thatcher, Treadwell, Tucker, White 23*
MefT s. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown, Findley, Firzfi-
Tnons, Gregg. Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Huger,
Kii'er-i. I/iwrance, Macon, Madison, Moore,
7V' <Met>'berg Mm ray, Parker, W. Smith, Steele,
Ste etr, Sumpter, Venable, Vining, Wayne,
Wvir--—i'i
... »nev renewed bis motion for (Iriking out
h- 1 4'h fecftions, which refpecft the ratio
of > enrefentation on the second reufns, and cal
led for the ayes and noes, which are as follow :
Messrs. Barnwell, Bondinot, S. Bourne, B.
Bourne,Clark, Dayton ,Gilman, Goodhne, Gregg,
Hillhoufe, Jacobs, Key, Kitchell, Livermore,
Moore, Niles, Page, Schoonmaker, Scney, J.
Smith, I. Smith, Sturges, Sylvester, Thatcher,
T ucker—2s.
Meftrs. Mie, Baldwin, Benfon, Brown, Find
ley, Fitzfimons, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Huger,
Kittera. Lawrance, Macon, Madison, Munlen
berg, Murray, Parker, W.Smith, Sterrett, Sninp
ter, Tread well, Venable, Vining Wayne, \\ liite,
Wvllis—26.
On filling tip the blank in the fourth fetflion
■with c;o,ooo, the ayes and noes were demanded,
and stand thus:
Meflrs. Affie, Baldwin, Benfon, Brown, Find
ley, Fitzfimons, Griffin, Hartley, Huger, Key,
Lawrance, Macon, Madison, Muhlenberg, Mur
ray, Page, Parker, Schoonmaker, Seney, Ster
rett, Sumpter, Sylveiler, Treadwell, Tucker,
Venable, Vining, White, WyHis—2B.
Meflrs. Barnwell, Boudinot, S. Bourne, B.
Bourne, Clark, Dayton,Gilman,Goodhue,Gregg,
Hillhoufe, Jacobs, Kitchell, Kittera, Learned,
Moore, Livermore, Niles, J. Smith, I. Smith,
W. Smith, Sturges, Thatcher —22.
Mr. Livermore laid a motion on the table to
the following purport: —That a committee should
be appointed to report a bill authorizing the of
ficers of the treasury to fettle the claim on the
estate of General Greene, so as that the said
estate may be indemnified from the claims againll
it, by virtue of his having become security for
certain conrraiftors, who furnifhed cloathingand
rations to the army of the United States, in the
Hate of Sonth-Carolina.
In committee of the whole on a bill providing
for the settlement of the claims of certain per
sons, under particular circnmftances, barred by
the limitations heretofore established.
Mr. W. Smith in the chair,
The object of this bill is, to admit the claims
of such officers, folditrs, artificers, sailors Scmarines,
as nipy have been inevitably precluded from
prefentittg them, within the times prescribed by
the ordinances of the late Congress, dated the 2d
November, t7^s". and 23d July, 1 787.
The oommi" f ee agreed to sundry amendments,
which were reported—the house adopted (evc
ral of them—others were proposed, but not de
cided on. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, February 21
A mefl'ige from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informed the House that the Senate have
agreed to all the amendments proposed by the
HopTe to the bill relative to the election of a
President and Vice-Prelulent of the United States,
&c. except the lad, to which they disagree.
This amendment was to Itrike out the 9th fee
AYES
NOES
AYES
NOES
AYES
NOES
tion, and to substitute a clause which provides
that the double vacancy in the officeof Prelldent
and Vice-President, shall be filled by the Secre
tary of State for rhe time being.
The Secretary also informed the House, that
the Senate have chosen a committee, confilting of
Mr. Sherman, Mr. Langdon and Mr. Strong, to
confer with such committee as the House may fee
proper to appoint, refpeC'ting the business neces
sary to be acted upon previous to a recess, which
they propose (hould commence the llt Tuesday
in April next.
The representation bill was brought in en
grolled, the blanks filled up, and the bill palled—
ayes 34, noes 16.
The House took the mefi'age from the Senate
into consideration, and concurred with them in
the appointment of a committee to confer re
fpetling a recess, and chose Medis. Goodhue,
Wadfworth,La wrance Sterrett andWliite on their
part.
The difigreement of the Senate to the lad
amendment of the House to the above bill, was
taken into consideration.
It was moved to recede from this amendment—
This motion revived the former difcuflion of
this fubjecfl.—The question being put, the mo
tion to recede was carried in the affirmative—
ayes 31, noes 24.
The House proceeded in the confederation of
the amendments to the bill providing for the fet
tlenient of the claims of cei tain persons, under
particular circumstances, barred by the limita
tions heretofore etlahlilhed.
Other amendments were made, and the bill
ordered to be engrolled for a third reading.
In committee of the whole on the militia bill.
Mr. W. Smith in the chair.
Thefirft feftion being read—amotion toamend
ir, by striking out part, and introducing a substi
tute was made. This motion was negatived. The
committee made further progress, and then rose
and reported and the House adjourned.
DEIIRY [Ireland] Nov. 7
Last night the bridge of Derry was for thefirft
time illuminated in a manner whicli does honor
to the corporation. The bridge is one thousand
feet long, and there isaglobe lamp, with double
burners, at every twenty feet distance, which
makes fifty globe lamps on each fide of the bridge.
They likewise have eredted two elegant toll
gates, executed in a masterly manner, with iron
scroll work, and niches for eight globes, which
are likewise lighted.
The corporation have, for the protection of
the pafiengers, employed four watchmen, who
are dressed in a very rich livery and armed, and
are to patrole the bri 'ge—the whole forms a view
which is truly magnificent, and finally completes
one of the most superb structures of the kind in
Europe.
BOSTON, Feb. 9
A subscription, we hear, is filled for a Salem
Bank—and that a petition for an a<?l of incorpo
ration will fliortly be presented to the Legifla-
ture
The capital of this Bank is said to be 50,000
dollars.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
The report of the committee on the fubje«t of
funding the debt of this Commonwealth, was ta
ken up in the House, and the consideration t>f it
referred to the next feflion of the General Court.
According ro alignment the bill to incorporate
the Tontine Aflociation had a third reading—on
which the merits of the bill were again combated
by Mr. Parsons, Mr. Davis, and Mr. Bacon, advo
cated by a great number of the members in every
quarter of the Hoiife, and at eight o'clock the
qneftion was put, fliall the bill pass—which was
determined in the affirmative—yeas 84, nays jt.
The c<yn mirtee on the petition of the proprie
tors ofth'e Duck Manufactory, reported a resolve
for continuing the bounty on Duck and Twine,
until the lit of July, 179?.
ALBANY, Feb. 9
The emigrations from the New-England flares
to rhe western parts of this state, are truly alio
ni(hiii<r ; and what is worthy of particular re
mark, rhefe emigrants appear all in tolerable cir
cmnrtances—and mod of them go to fettle a new
and fertile country, with every article of necef
fary houlhold furniture,farming uten(ils,ftock,&c
The Indians fettled at F othertown in Herke
trier county, vre are told, have (cut a petition to
the legislature, praying to be put on the footing
of free white citizens, except that they do not
wifli the privilege of felling their lands—They
(late as reasons for being admitted as free citi
zens, that they have been brought up in a civil
ized life, and that they profefs the Christian re
liaion.—Many of the Indians fettled at Brother
town can read and write, and fomeof them (peak
the English language with no small degree of
grammatical propriety.
343
FEB. 7,
FEB. 8
Philadelphia, February 22,.
THE D A Y.
SF.F, with wide intervals of time and foace,
Mow few are fcaitered of lite hero race ;
Heaven seem-; to raise them in the expanse of air,
Rc'ulgcnt stars that btaz.e, and dtfappcar ;
Jo deck the and mark the wanderer's wav
And ehear the nations with benignant ray :
Rnt from the centre how they rulh afar#
And coinet-like, shed pestilence and wa-\
Genius how rare, beftow'd how much in vain,
Or worse—destroyer of the race tjf man !
The foul that iparkles with celestial fire,
Lights up of power the unquenchable desire ;
Strong parts to ftrongcr palTions lend their force.
And fwift ambition kindles in its course—
How fierce the rage from rivallhip that springs.
How welcome vengcancc wrcak'd on tyrant Kiogs f
How vi&ory shouts, how glory lights the fkics,
And dazzling lustre overpowers his eyes—
Now drunk and blind with power—the world his own,
Hefcorns all duties, and wouid reign alone.
Curlt with the rage for fame the hero's age
Seems still to redden in the historic page ;
There truth infh utts us, while our sorrows flow,
More than the tragic muse (hedeals in woe.
Now birtory (miles delighted with her theme,
And to admiring nations tells thy name 5
Thy name, O WASHINGTON, their zeal inspires.
Slaves drop their chains, and glow with patriot fires.
Another sunshine seems to cheer mankind,
And from the froft ot ages thaws the mind ;
Wak'd by the vernal breeze, fee Poland, France,
With vouth renew'd, and vig'rous health advance.
Another spring has (lied a sweet perfume,
What fruits are promis'd by so rich a bloom !
Round the whole earth mav liberty be spread,
And vanquifh'd flaverv hide her hated head.
The genial Oar, presiding at thy birth
Vot to thy country gave thee, but the ea»"th.
Yet in what region 'twixt the pole and line
Is not thy country's glory spread with thine ?
The tongue of Fame is never tir'd of thee,
And virtue cries—my champion he shall be ;
The power confer'd he uses in my cause,
He fav'd his country—yet lefpelis the laws ;
Yet famebv others followed, follows him,
And kings with envy fee their crowns glow dim ;
They hide their vulgar heads, compdl'd to own
How much by virtue, fortune is outdone.
With tears of anxious joy, thy country hears.
The long recital of thy sixty years ;
And fees how well thy virtues have combin'd
Repulsive parts—and by affection jom'd :
But ah ! looks forward to a dreary shore,
For fate ordains that thou shall be no more.
Union withdifcord holds a doubtful ftrife.
Our liberty seems lengthen'd with thy life—
To thee may ev'ry gale of heav'n bring health,
A boon more precious than a nation's wealth
If heav'n thy valu'd being should prolong,
Habit may make the sense ot Union strong,
Thy breath the bond that keeps us join'd and free-
Thus thy admiring country lives with thee.
This dav (and noton the lull inft. as mentioned in a former
paper) the President ot the United States enters into the 6a It
year of his age.—The occasion will excite a glow of patriotism >
and gratitude ill the breast of every friend to freedom and man
kind.
The eledlion of Governor tor the State of New-
York is drawing nigh. Three candidates have
been ltarted—His Excellency the prefentGover
nor, the Hon. John Jay, Chief Justice, and the
Hon. Aaron Burr, Senator of the United States.
Anthony Morris, Esq. is eledted Senator of
this Commonwealth, in the room of the Hon.
Richard Peters, resigned.
It seems to be lamented that there are writers
who vindicate any of the proceedings of Con
gress. We are told of ministerial puffers and
sycophants. Where one piece appears for go
vernment. are there not a score against it?—lt
seems as if sedition had an hundred tongues, and
all of brass.
One of the legion of fault-finders (for they are
many) in a late paper, in a very devout and ten
der hearted sentence, denounces the vengeance
of Heaven on the government, becaufcit has op
prefled the widow and fatherlefs in the provision.
for the public debt. The fame writer, however,
it seems, would .help them no further than by his
prayers, or rather his maledidiions onCongrefs;
for he considers the provision for the debt un«
constitutional, being against the general welfare.
The creditors, doubtless, are a minor part, so
that the general welfare or convenience is plain*
ly on the fide of making no provision for the
debt. It goes terribly against the conftiugtion
of great numbers to pay their debts. Perhaps
this is the ground of the writer's constitutional
obje<flian to the funding art. He is also averse
to an import tax —Both these difficulties, howe
ver, are overlooked, when he has occasion to
mention the opprefEon of the fatherlefs and the
widows. He calls do-m divine vengeance 011
Congrefii—yet he deems a provision' by law for
the debt unconstitutional, and the revenue to pay
it oppressive. What a friend to the widows anal
fatherlefs !
PRICE CURRENT— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT
6 pr. Cents 24fi pr. £
3 pr. Cents 14/4 14/5
Defered 6 pr. Cents i&J&
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 22f no do.
Indents 14J 7°
half (hares Bank Stock— 95 per cent premium* ,
i?o pr. ccnt.
72 do.
73i d °-PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
FBR. QUANTITY
February 20. —Dollars 100 Centseach,
ANCHORS pr.lb. yc 8c
Allum, Englilh, pr.c. 3<^73 c 4^
Dmo, Roch pr. lb. Nt
Ashes, pot, per ton, 90J ioo<i
Pearl, 14°^
Arrack pr. gall. 1 d 33c id 67c
Brandy, common, id 1 ic
Cogniac id 20c id 30c
Braziletto, pr. ton. 33c qcd
Bricks, pr. M. \d ijd
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. id 88c 2d
Ditto, pilot 3^67c
Ditto, small water 36c 40c
Beer, American, in ")
bot pr.doz. bot. incl. J
pr. bbl. 4d 67c
c/ 5 f Oak pr.M feet, iod
Q | Merch. pine 16d 17d
2 4 Sap, do. Bd 50c yd
O I N.Eng. Ud
cq *4**
The dbove are the Shallop prices;
Jot the Yard prices add id 33c
pr. M.
Brimstone rolls pr.cwt. 3d
u* ( Irish pr. bbl
< Boston
ca ( Country
Butter pr. lb.
in kegs
£ f Sper. pr. lb.
_! | Wax
Q Myrtle Wax
2 | Mould,tallow
6 L Dipped
Cheese, Englifli, pr. lb. 19c
Country 8c 10c
Chocolate l s c
Cinnamon 2d 40c 2d 67c
Cloves *d 33c
Coal pr. bulhel 20c 22c
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10d 67c 11 d 33c
Coffee pr. lb. *7 C
Copperas pr. cwt. \d67c
Cordage ya6ycSJ
Cotton pr. lb. 23c 34c
7 d 8d
6d 7 d
16c
<-)/- 1 Of
10C 12C
43 c
52 c 5 6:
'3 C
1 1 c
Cuirants 1 3 c
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece
Ravens 93 c 7 C
Feathers pr. lb- 4 0c 44 c
Flax
Flaxfeec pr. bush. 85c 90c
Flour, Super, pr. bbl. 5^ 2 5 c
Common, 4^74 c 5^
• Bur middlings,beft 4d 13c
Meal, Indian 2d 67c
Ship-ftuff pr.cw. 1 d id 33c
Fustic pr. ton, 20d
Gin, Holland, pr.cafc, 4d\d33c
Do. pr. gall. 80c
Glue, pr. cwt. zod 2id 33c
Ginger, whiterace 7^7^33 c
Ditto, common 7d 20c
Ditto, ground pr. lb. gc
Ginseng, 2cc 24c
Gunpovder, can- ) , d
non, pr. q. c. $ 0 0
Ditto, fine glazed 4d
f Wheat pr. buOi 90c 93c
! Rye 54c 60c
5 i Oats 26c 33c
"K <( Indian corn 44 c 4&-'
! Barlcv 60c 66c
j Bed fiielled pr. lb. 3c
(_ Buckwheat per bufli. 28c
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, 120 d 146. 67c
Ameiican, pr. lb. 4c 5c
Herrings, pr.bbl. zd6yc
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9c 11c
Hops 77c
Hogthead hoops, pr. M Isd
Indigo, French lb. ldzpc id 33c
— Carolina 40c id
Irons, fad pr. ton, 33c
f Callings pr. cwt 3d 47c
£ | Bar pr. ton, 82d
O «> pig 26d 6yc
£ | Sheet 173J 33c
Nail rods 96d
Junk, pr. cwt. 4d §d
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9c 10c
Lead in pigs pr.c. 5^67c
in bars 7d
Lead, white iodiod6yc
— red 6d/^oc6d6:c
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 1 jczoc
Lignum vitae pr. ton, §d 60c 6d
Logwood 24^
Mace pr. lb.
Mackarel, bell pr. bbl. gd
- ftcond quality 6d 67c
Madder, best pr. lb. t6c 20c
Marble.wrought, pr.f.
Mad spars 33c 67c
MolalTes pr.gall. 41 c 45c
Mustard per. lb. 87c
Mahogany pr. foot, 10c
Nails,tod\2.d and 20d toe
Nutmegs pr. lb. Bi/
f Lmfeed, pr. gall. 50c
1 Olive 87c
Ditto pr. cafe, 2d $cc
I Beftfwecuin ) .
- <j flafks.pr.box $ lod
I —baskets 12 bottles $d
I Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
I Train 24c 27c
l_Whaie 22c 28c
Porter pr. cask, 5d 33c
London,pr. doz. id6oc
Porter, American ) , ,
pr.doz. bouincl. \ idicul6oc
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
teas,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firH quality—by retail
No. 19,
Third-Street,bet ween Chefnut and Market Streets
Pitch, pr. bbl. id 7oc 2d
Pork, Burlington, \od 33c
Lower county 9d 33c
Carolina
Peas, Albany pr. bush,
Pepper, pr. ib.
Pimento
Raisins, best, pr. keg " t d Sd
73 c
44c 47c
2 yc 20c
Ditto pr.jar
Ditto pr. box 4<i
Rice pr. cwt. 2d 67c 2d93c
Rosin pr. bbl. zd 33c 2d 67c
I* Jamaica pr. gall
| Antigua
J Windward
i Barbadoes
90c
87 c
73 c 77 c
73 c
I,Country, N. E.
Sjljt petre, pr. cwt. 13d 33 c 14d
SaHafras pr. ton 6d 8d
Shot 140^
j ( German pr.lb. 9c
W )Englifh, blistered cwt\od
H pr. ton
<0 (Crowley's pr. fag 10d6jc
Snake root pr. lb. tcc 42c
Soap, Brown
6c
&
Castile lif
Starch 7 c
Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4d 5d 60c
Spermaccti, refined, 48c
Sail cloth, English,") n g c
Whitq
No i, per yard, J
•Boston, No. I. . 30c
No. 11. 29c
Ruflia fhecting, pr.p. 124?
C Lump, pr. lb. 1
d { Loaf, Angle refined 25c
J Ditto, double do. 33c
S? I Havannah, white 16c 17c
00 Ditto, brown, 12c 14c
LMufco.pr.cwt \\d\sd33c
Spirits Turpentine p. g. 33C37C
f Allum pr. bufo.24c2;c
j 29c
< 25c
1/3 ( Lisbon 25c 27c
Ship build. W. 0.1 J2d j
frames p. ton, J o 00
Do. L O. 33c i6d 67c
Do. red cedar, p. f. 33c 40c
Shingles, fh. p. M. 2d 33c 2d 67
Do. long drefled
Scantling, hearts 2
Sap 8J Sd 67 c
f Pipe pr. 1000
• W. O. hog (head igd 33 c
> j R.O. do. lgd 50c
j Lcogan i6d
Barrel 10 d
L Heading 26d 6 c
' Otter, best pr. pie. 4d6yc
Minks 20c 40c
Fox, grey
red
Martins
<J Fishers
~ Bears
Racoons
40c B®c
id 20c
24c id
33c 67c
3 d
27c 6cc
11 c 20c
Mtifk-rats
Beaver, pr. lb. 67c id 33c
LDeci, in hair 2Cc 30c
Tar,N. Jcrfcy, 24 gal. p. bbl. id
—Carolina,32 gall, xdftgcidSjc
Turpentine pi. bbl. id 67c 2d
I' James R. best 3d 6ce 73c
•-£J • inferior 2d67c 3 d
o old Ad 67c
Rappahannock 2d 50c 3d
q Colo.Maryland $d 33c Sd
O Dark 2<y 40c
Long-leaf 2d 40c
E3 Eastern-shore 2d id 93c
O ! Carolina, new 2d jc 3d
H L old do.
f Hyson pr. lb. 93c id 28c
<s) I Hyson fk n, 53 c 6 7 C
<<; Souchong, s oc 93c
H I Congo, 43c 50c
34c 36c
Tallow, refined 9c
Tin pr. box,
33 c C
Vetdigreafe pr. lb. 47c 53c
Vermillion
Varnish, 33c 37c
f Madeira, pr. p. 106 d 200 d
• Lvibon 96^100^
j Teneriffe, pr. gal. $ic6cc
[xj I Fa Y al 44 c 49 c
2 <J Port pr. p. io6d 6yc 12cd
Do. in bottles,pr. doz.
"* Claret 6d
Sherry pr. gall. 90c id2oc
Malaga 77c 80c
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25c 27c
Whale-bone,long pr.lb. 13C30C
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 davs
60 days 2pr.cent. prem
30 Oays
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, gg c
90 days 38c
Government bills, drawn at to
days per 11 guilders, 41/ 44c
France, 60 davs 80c
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
ALL the landed cftate of GEORGE W ANER, deccaled, c0 "~
fitting of a valuable Plantation and tract of Timber Land,
supposed >ocontain between four hundred and 4.50 acres, about
qo of which is plow-land and 15 of drained meadow. I here is
on the farm a dwelling-hrtufe and kitchen, a cooper's (nop and a
large barn ; a well of water at the door, a good apple orchard.
The house (lands close 011 a good landing belonging to the (aid
premises; the reft of the land is well timbered and lies within
one mile ot said landing, and an equal diltance from a saw- nill
and grift-mill and also of Quinton's Biidge, bounding on the
Main, Allaway's Creek, 111 ttie county of Salem, five miles trom
Salem Court-Houlc.
Any perlon that is disposed to view or purchase the said pre
mises, may fee the place and know the terms, by applying to
the fubferibers near the fame.
MARK MILLER and J sxecutors .
ANDREW MILLER, > *
SaUm County, 2d mo. 13M, 1792.
N. B. There' is likewise a lot of Meadow ground of about 25
acres, adjoining lands of Al.bolt Sayres, and others, the propeity
of said deceased, to be fold in manner as above, by the said exe
cutors. [' P4 W J
Joseph Anthony, & Son,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Store, No. 5, on Cliefnut-Street Wharf,
AFKW puncheons choice old Jamaica Spirits,
Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis Rum,
Port-au-Prince, Cape-Francois and Surinam Molafles,
Coffee, Colon, and Pimento,
Hyson and Souchong Tea, of the fit ft quality,
Cloves, CafTia, and Boston Chocolate,
Spermaceti Candles and drained Oil,
Salmon and picked Mackarel,
Boston Bee! and Burlington Pork,
Ruflia and Bolton Canvas,
A few bales excellent Hops,
Myrtle Wax Candles,
St. Martin's Salt, •
Madeira Wine, in pipes, hogftieads and quarter ca(ks,
And a tew cafcs old Batavia Arrack,
February 8, 1 792
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing the
Protestant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Brunfwick,
agreeable to an a£l of the Legislature ot the State of New-Jersey,
palTcd November 1791.
SC H E
1 P
1
2
5
10
3°
go '
>675
Prize of
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
(£IT This Lottery is composed of ,5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjett to a deduttion of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery vet
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the mod
liberal support.
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in April,
or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of New-
Brunfwick, under the infpe£lion of Col. John Bayard, President
of said city; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Amboy;
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Manufactur
ing Society of New- Jerfcy.
Tickets to be had of the following persons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given security for the
faithful performance of their dutv.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be publifiied, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, C Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
N. B. Those prizes which are not demanded within fix months
a.fter the drawing of the Lottery, will be confidcitd as a generous
donation to the Cburch.
New-firuvfwicl, January 20, 1792
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
TTAVE juftnow opened their L f. ad-War ehous e, two doors
louth of Walnui-ftreet Wharf, adjoining their New Fa£)ory_
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general affort
mem of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Engliih woitiwn, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured m Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
1 hey also continue to manufaflure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrcfTed to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and execntcd on the
lnortelt notice.
N. B. Wanted induftriouj, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
: lines, where constant employ, good wages, and othci encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
at ' jart ' c ' lla " cn( l» i " of MeflVt. Moses Aust , n & Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791.
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters ot Elizabeth
or fn RIVCr ,' n A V "S'ma,toth„fc of Pafquotank in N'orth-Ca.olina,
or so, conducing the work, will be .eceived until the nin.h day
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamlburg ; Thomas
lohTr"' Jl,n ' arld «a n ' e ' Bcdtngcr, of Norfolk, in Virginia ;by
J hn Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, ,n North-Carolina. The length of the Canal vHI be
bout fixtcen miles ; the country through which it will pass ,s
swampy, free: from (lones, and covered with heavy wood The
Canal ,s to be thirty-two feet in width, and etght feet at ieaft in
depth, below the furface of the carib, and capable of heirm
gated in dry seasons by veiTels drawing th S water g
"..k£ application'
By order of the Pref.dem ar.d Directors
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Cletk.
Norfolk* January i>i,
•• B '^f^raa s ojcLA?"<:s%
344
[cp4 w]
M E,
Dollars is 2000
200©
1000
s°°
200
1000
1000
1000
100
50
20
4
1000
1530
1800
6700
16000
[ep 3 m]
(epJ 9A )
Prfi l adelfhi a, February 16, i-jo?
NOTICE. '
npi-IF. Officers of the Militia Battalions of the City, the Northern
JL Liberties, and Southern Dillrift of Philadelphia, arerequefted
to aflemble at the Srate-Houfe, properly uniformed, at half p a )t
2 o'clock, on Wednefdav next, the 226 instant. The Volunteer
Corps of Artillery, Cavalry and Infantry, will parade at said
place at 11 o'clock, to take orders for the firings and exercise r.f
the day. It is also p.irticulaily requested, that such Officers of
the Army of the United States as may be in this City on that day
will join the Procession of their fellow Officers and Citizens
above, at half part 2 o'clock.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
A VALUABLE PLANTATION, the title ind>fputable, in
Tl the county of Glouceftei, fijppofeJ t« conr.n 11 five hundred
and forty acres of Meadow Land and Cedar Swamp, fitnatc on 4
b-anch of Little Egg-Harbour River, in the townfhipol Galloway.
There is on said piemifis a frame house and kitchen, a imall hay
house and stable. About sixty acres of the land clearcd, and about
bne hundred and ninety of woodland, and a cedar swamp, chief
ly well timbered, and about 300 acres of meadow (intn iperfed
wi'.h I Y< Hi water flowing ilreams) fufficient to supply one hundred
head of cattlc.—The situation is. allowed by judges, to be capital
for railing flock.— Any per foil to purchase said Planta
tion, may have pofTeflion from the 25th of March ensuing. The
terms may be known by applying to the fubferiber, living ec
Quinton's Bridge, in the county of Salem ; or a further defcrip.
tion may be had, by applying to Richard Wood, senior, in
Greenwich ; or Joseph Sloan, Surveyor, near Hattonfield ; or of
James Scull, adjoining; said lands.—The place above mentioned,
is a pleafani healthy country, within two miles of three grift and
saw-mills : And three houses appropriated to divine woi ihip, are
about the fame distance* Terms of payment made easy, by
Quinton's Bridge, Salem County,
2d mo. 1 otA, 1792.
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of th®
Townfhipof Benfelem, intheCountyofßucks,
Esquire, decealed, pursuant to the Directions
of his last Will and Testament.
Tuesday the 27th of March next will be cxpofed to Sale,
by wav of Public Vendue, on the premises—One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, situate on the river Delaware; on
which is ere&ed a handsome two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good barn, (tables, hay-house,
and other convenient outhoufc s. A good orchard of the best kind
of grafted iruit,now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and in good order; and a shad and herring fifhery before the door.
This place is remarkably well timhei ed, has a fufficiency of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the post-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; containing
about two hundred and seven acres, the greatest part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, stables,
and other outhoufrs, with a young thriving orchard of the best
grafted fruit, and a shad and herring fifhery. It has long been a
well accnftomed tavern ; and the ferry belongingto it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the best profpe£ts on the
river, and are remarkably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about fixty-thrre acrcs, situ
ate in the township of Southampton, in the sounty afotefaid ; 011
which are ere&ed two log-houses. There is a small orchard, and
a great fufficiency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lor. containing four acres, situate on the great poQ-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log dwelling-house, and work-shop ad
joining, with a well of excellent water at the door : now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame time and place, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniture, Farming Utensils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchafc
money to be paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments with interest.
JOHN SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBIT, [ Executors.
SAMUEL BENEZET, )
(eptwj)
War Department.
January 2, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby g»ven to all the military invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they are intitlcd
tor fix months of their annual pension, hom the 4th day of Sep
tember, 1791, and which will become due on the sth day of
March, 1792, will be paid on the said day by the Commifiioners
of the Loans within the dates refpeflively, under the usual regu
lations, VI z.
Every application for payment muil be accompanied by the
foil owing vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the (late, fpecifying that the per
son poffefiing the fame is in fa£l an invalid, and ascertaining '.he
sum to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Jufticesof ihe county of
in the state of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to
whom the original certificate in his pofieflion was given, of which
the following is a copy (the certificate given by the itate to be re
cited) That he feTved (regiment, corps or vessel) at the time he
was difablcd, and that he now resides in the and county of
and has redded there for the last
resided in
I n cafe an invalid fliould apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. B. of county of ilate of do hereby consti
tute and appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my
behalf of my pcnfion for fix months, as an invalid of the Lif
ted States, from the fourth day of September, one thousand fcveii
-hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and fcalcd
in the prefenceof
Witnefles.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and admirtiftratovs must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpe£live offices, and also ol ih c
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refpeflive tatcs are requeued to publifl*
the above in their newspapers, for the space of two months.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COM MISS TO N T , by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
THOMAS PROCTER, Lieut,
of the City and Liberiics.
ANDREW MILLER.
[cp4w]
years, previous to winch he