(ftfj
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AN» unmn " ~ ' ■ ' —-
— " DAYS M J OHN Ff-NMO, No. 34, NOBTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 60 of Vol. IV.] Wednesday, December 26, ~i 792 .
tAOU. THE COLUMBIAN LtNi INEI
THE MONITOR
On the moral infl'unci of v reaching.
IT is frequently said that the con
duct of men is ]inle influenced
by what they hear from the pulpit.
It is urged that many of the dis
courses are not practical nor adapt
ed to enlighten the mind. Admit
ting this, it is neverthelels anfwer
cd, that none of them recommend
an ill cotnfe of life, and many
preachers paint moral beauty in the
molt attrartive colours, or exhibit
the turpitude and meanness of vice
with so much truth and force, as to
make it appear loathfoine to its ve
ry followers. Those tvlio deny the
ufefulnefs of preaching, fay, that
Hs influence is momentary. There
is i rssr. " (ay they, ar the door
'• <"• ••»<! perhaps it opens,
of cons
bnt it is S
'-ut again and bolted.
TJie cwurfe of bad thoughts is nor
ftop'd at all, and that of bad acftions
for an instant only. The thought
]efs follower of vice plunges into the
world, and, considering lerious re
fleition as bad company, he con
nives to get ri d of it as soon as he
can. Tliefe objections only (liew
that good precepts w ill not preserve
us from falling, if the}' be not sup
ported by good habi;s. Yet many
fa lie concl ulions have been drawn
from tliefe confiderat ions. Why do
we pay for preaching, if wo fee inen
persist in vice as much as ever > Do
we hope better success at this day,
than the world, though it has grown
old in the attempt, has hitherto
fotjnd ?
Plausible as these idLeas frem, they
are not the less fallacious. Good
opinions alone will not fectirea man
against temptation. Yet if he be
inltrutfed iti his duty, he will f'ure
]y condemn himfelf for violating it;
and still more will he condemn ano
ther in a like cafe. The minister,
by teaching men what they ought
<>r ought no: to do, may npt guard
them against the allurements of
guilty pieafure, but he will do fome
thiiig towards p-'eventing error :
They wil. not nnllake whatduiyis.
Right thinking may not produce
Tight acTtion—it is however an ef
fentiai parr of our moral education.
To make duty pi3in is to (trip vice
ofthofe difgu'Tes, which it is oblig
ed to aU'utne in order to obtain its
jirtt victory over virtue. The mind
lhrinkj from that sense of removfe
which it well knows is sure to fol
low criminal indulgence. This re
straint alone is usually fufficient to
keep us from falling into great
trail fgreffions. This view of the
fubje<it regards the influence of
preaching only on the operations of
a man's own mind, without advert
ing to the shame of being seen ?s a
criminal by the world.
And if we confidcr that sermons
are addrefi'ed to our children as well
as to rhofe of mature age, we shall
fee the inestimable advantage of
having the young mind pre-occu
pied by good iniprellions, and as it
were, diiciplined to virtue.—The
preacher, however, does more in fa
vor of morality. Shame has ter
rors not less formidable than those
of the law. Public opinion is the
judge, and the minifler of a ven
geance which cannot always prevent
crimes, but is sure to overtake the
offenders. Accordingly we find ihat
the morals of a people are nearly as
accurate as the general" fl:a;e of
■knowledge among them. Thecler
gy, by Jc-fcanting on our duties,en
able us to diitinguifir right from
■wrong, and by the frequency of
their addrefl'es, tbefe lions
become familiar. It is no final] ad
vantage to good morals to bring
men together—but to do it on the
terms of their cbferving decorum,
and fitting in lilence as hearers, is a
Hill greater point gained.~Add to
this, while the nature and confe
rences of vice and virtue are re
piefented, each man turns his eye
en hinifelf, and feels conscious that
every man's eye is upon hiin. The
law ot opinion is not only interrupt
ed but actually enforced at the mo
ment. He feels awed by that pub
lic which he fees allembled, and en
gaged in the work of discounte
nancing vice. Thus, by enlighten
ing us in regard to our duties, and
as it were forcing upon an aflem
bled multitude the reflection upon
them, che clergy, though they may
not pievent the brcaclus of the mo
ral law, contribute a great deal to
wards securing the (anxious of it.
Public opinion mrliciS the punii'n
ment, and probably with more ef
fect both towards the prevention of
offences and the reformation of the
tranfgreflbrs, than if it were fuffer
ed at the whipping post or the pil
lory.
It has been before hinted that the
authority of public opinion is great
ly increased by aflembling men to
gether. To men of cold hearts and
sceptical philosophy the effects of
that mysterious sympathy by which
we fuffer or enjoy the emotions of
the beholders will seem incredible
—Yet it is known that the moral
and political condition of Greece
was influenced by the discipline of
the Gym nail am, and the active e
mulation of their Olympic and Ifth
niian games. The excels of grief
or joy Jometimes proited mortal to.
the competitors.
Every congregation is with us a
moral school in which virtue is not
only rendered amiable, but public
ly confided to the vigilant protecti
on of an allembly deeply interested
and carefully inilrutfled to be faith
ful to the trust. It is the fault of
the minister if in those places vice
is not made to hang its head. Is it
faying too much, that with us the
church is the Gymnasium, in which
youthful virtue grows llrong by ex
eicife ! While facts Ihew that pub
lic opinion did so much in Greece ;
is it a ralh hypothecs to foppofe it
able to accompli/h so little in our
times ?
The liinit3 of this paper would
not allow us to pursue these consi
derations as far as we might do it
with advantage. The theory of
our eccl liallical institutions is cer
tainly excellent. Great credit is
due to our forefathers who laid the
foundations of them so deeply that
our halms concur with our interelts
as a people. It would be ufeful to
call the attention of the wife and
worthy to the means by which the
clergy might be rendered even more
refpt«flable and influential than
they are at present. Splitting of
parishes is certainly ail evil. Funn
ing funds for the support of miuif.
teis would be well repaid by secur
ing the peace of parilhes.
The result of these refieitinns is,
that our moral opinions are formed
in early youth and influenced af
terwards by I lie clergy. Who does
not know the sway that opinion
bears ? The world and ha polities
are governed by it. It is the bufi
-11 el's of the clergy to form and di
rect it in favor of virtue. This
work they never quit. They begin
almost at the cradle, and bear their
disciple company to the grave. This
order of men is of Ihe greatell nfe
to society. The laws govern by
force ; but they address themfel»<Js
to men's hearts, foas that they shall
govern themielves. ,
237
E.-.trift from a Charge delivered ij
Thomas Smith, Efqu'tre, Pre fide/it
of the Courts of Common Picas, ire.
in the Jourth circuit, to the Grand,
"juries for each of the counties of
Cumberland, Mifflin, Huntingdon,
Bedford and Franklin, at the open
"'§ °f feverat courts cf Qttarter
SeJJions, holden in Otlober and No
vember, I 792.
I had written thus far when
I received a letter from his Excell
ency the Governor, which, as it is
directed to me in my public station,
and i elates to the bulinefs on which
I am now addrefling you, and as the
sentiments contained in it, perfectly
coincide with those which I have
uniformly exprefled from this place ;
it being also founded on a proclama
tion of the President of the United
States, expressive of the fame fenti
; I beg leave to lead an extract
from that letter (referring you to the
proclamation, which you have all
read or heard read) viz. " Sir, the
" Prelident has communicated to
" me a copy of a proclamation,
" which he ill'ued, in confequettce
" of certain irregular proceedings
" that have taken place, in particu
" )ar parts of some of the States,
" contravening the laws far raU
" sing a revenue from spirits dif
" tilled within the United States :
" and I am desirous in every pro
«' per way, to manifeft my difpo-'
" lition to further the object of
" the particular menfure, which he
" has at this time adopted, as well
" as to promote on every occasion,
" a due obedience to the conftitu
" tional laws of the union. Permit
" n<, therefore, Sir, to reqneft,
" that you will take every official
" opportunity to inculcate the in
" difpenfible duty of obedience to
" the atfls of Congress : and, par
" ticularly, that you will be pleased
" as far as the jurifditftion of your
" circuit extends, to charge the
" grand juries of the several coun
" ties within your diftricl, to en
" quire into, and present, all of
" fences of the nature to which the
" proclamation refers. 1 am per
" fuaded, Sir, that you are convin
" ced, with me, that the profperiry
" of the States individually, de
" pends upon the prosperity of the
" union, which can only be effei't
" ed by a ftrirt and faithful atten
" tion to our federal obligations.
" I repose a perfetft confidence in
" your exertions upon the particu
" lar fubjecfi that 1 have now fug
" gefted. lam with great efteera,
" Sir, your mod obedient servant,
" THO. Miffli N."
These sentiments of your Govern
or, corresponding with thole of the
President of the United States, will,
I trust, make a proper imprelfion
upon the people at large ; as they
have the fame tendency with those,
which a fenle of duty, an ardent
with to promote the peace, profpe
ritv, the liberties and social fclicity
of the people, have induced me to
endeavor to impress upon their
minds, with particular earneftnels,
in this infant State of our national
existence. I flatter myfelf that this
fiinilarity will give weight to the
addrefles which I have made (o the
Several grand juries (ince my ap
pointment ; and to lhe observations
which I am now going to make on
the fubjecl-inatter of the Govei nor's
letter.
Mod (incerely do I felicitate you,
my fellow citizens, in that i liave
no occasion to point out a 'ingle of
fender against the law under consi
deration. I have but of one
feeble attempt within this diltriifl,
to oppose the execution of it—that
attempt did not appear to be ihe ef
fert of premeditation ; ic seemed
ed rather an unguarded falJ v, an e-
[Whole No. 582.]
}•
Imllition of liberty ; jtiTbmutl) t]|.;
the gentlemen who conduit flic nob
lie profecutiorrS in the county »I,ere
it happened, did nor think it m
cell.iry to lend a bill to the grand
jury againll the actors.
By the 6th article of the conftiru
tion of the United States, that con
stitution, and the laws of the Uni
ted States made in pursuance there
of, are the supreme law of the land :
the Judges in every State are bound
thereby, and obedience is due to
them by every citizen ; if therefore
you, or any of you, know that any
offence has been committed, of the
nature to which the Proclamation
refers, it is your duty to pi efent the
offender. What although fomeof the
people of the United States, and 1 a
msng the number, may have difap
provedof, or n»t fufficiently compre
hended, rl.etyitem wlnifTi made the
law in quell ion neceH'ary,are a few to
let up their private opinion against
the wisdom of the society at lai g?, of
which they are members ? Js rvlilt
ance to any law coolHtutionally
made by those whom the society
have delegated for that purpole,
jultifiable in a few who may have,
or effetft to have, objedions to it ?
No government could fubiilt, were
this allowed ; anarchy, individual
ruin and national dellruc r tion, mult
be the conlequence. It is equally
certain that a firm adherence to the
principles of the Union, and a due
obedience to its laws, and to thole
of the State, will have an equal ten
dency to en Cure to us, individual
peace and prosperity, and national
fafety and greainefs.
When we review the condudt of
the people of the United States du
ring, and since, the formation of
the Federal Constitution, and tha
cor.ftitutions of the several States,
with very few exceptions indeed ;
have we not very 11 long and pleas
ing evidence, that our fellow-citi.
Zens have displayed move real pa
triotism, and that they poflels more
political virtue and wifdorn, than
any other nation now in exiltence,
has done in similar circumstances ?
Had there cxilted among us, a num
ber of men of perverted talents and
desperate fortunes, or many men of
wild ambition and void of princi
ple, or hunters after popularity
without merit to deserve it, or craf
ty knaves greedy of power, and de
termined to acquire it by any means,
however base, they would have had,
during this eventful peiiod, ample
scope to have played upon the pas
sions of the people j and on no oc
calion more, than on the promul
gation of the law in quellion. From
the early prejudices imbibed againlk
the Excise Laws of Britain and Ire
land, by the citizens of thele States
who were natives of those countries,
I will venture to fay, that by i ing
ing vociferoufly and on every oc
casion, the changes on about a dy
zen of words against all laws for
railing a revenue from spirits dis
tilled within the United States, how
ever necelfary and however modi
fied, (and a Parrot might learn to
repeat the words in a few hours)
the dullest and moll ftopid chai
terer, might, for a while, have pas
sed for an enlightened patriot, and
the mod infignificant character, al
though destitute of every molil vir
tue, might have been elevated in
to political consequence. Mty we
not be as much surprised as \ie are
happy that so few of such charac
ter have appeared among us And
that the few who have appeared,
have been soon discovered and funk
again into their original infignifi
cancy, with very few exceptions ?
Popularity so gained, i& seldom of
duration among any enlightened
people. Kiitory will convince every men of reading and i~cfietTtioll
and experience every man or obler
vation, that give such people full
information lefpeifting public mea
i'ures—if they have time to think
for themselves they will generally
think right ; they will generally
confide in government while it de
serves their confidence ; but for
want of t his full in formation, a well
meaning people may be, and fre
quently are, led suddenly astray,
by such characters as I have dc-fcii
bed.
Think not my fellow-citizens,
that I recommend a blind approba
tion of all the Laws enacted by the
Legiilature of the United Slates, or
of this State: ftiould this Law or
or any 01 her Law of either, be dis
covered by experience to be defec
tive, opprelfive, incoHfiltent with
the principles of real liberty, or
partial in its operation, it istiie in
dispensable duty of every good ci
tizen who makes the discovery, to
point out to his fellow-citizens, with
manly freedom, which is always
accompanied with decorum, the evil
consequences which lie apprehends
from it, and to promote proper re
prefentaiions to those whom we
have intruded with the legislative
power ; as we chufe them freely,
and may chufe otheis in their (lead
at Hated and short periods, when
ever we disapprove of t heir condu<ft,
can we doubt that they will not pay
the utmoll attention to such repre
sentations ? We may be sure that
they will repeal every law liable to
such objections, or so modify it as
to make it promotive of the general
welfare, in the bed manner: of this
we have convincing evidence, in the
alterations which have already been
made in the firft law for raising this
revenue, by which it is made more
equal ; since which time the people
in this State, on this fide of the
mountain, seem very generally con
tented with it.
Indeed uulef \ it be unequal in its
operation and burthen, as between the
different States, no oppof.tisn to it
eould be apprehended from the citizens
of Pennsylvania, consistently with their
Federal character, as they had been long
accujlomed to an Excise of their
own, agaivjl which they did nvt co?ji~
plain. To conclude this head, when
this or any other revenue is paid ge
nerally by the community at large,no in
dividuals of that community can re
fufe or evade the payment of if with
out breach of moral houejiy and social
duty.
I would be wanting in juflice to the
AJfociate "Judges in this diftr itt, were J
not to declare that they perfectly join
with me in recommending obedicnce to
the Laws of the land, as indispensably
necessary to fscure and perpetuate the
peace, liberty, fafety and happiness of
the people.
FROM THE NEIV-BRUNSWIC ADVERTISER.
Address from Americans to FAYETTE.
ILLUSTRIOUS patriot ! enlightened citi
zen of the world ! for fucjj still thou art,
as such thy name is engraven on our hearts,
as such recorded on the rolls of immortality.
—When we saw France convulsed by parties,
we rejoiced and we trembled ; —rejoiced be
'caufe we still found thee leading where glory
called, and where wisdom pointed out the
way.—x\rdent in the cause of liber ty,but guid
ed by prudence. We trembled left thy mode
ration should draw on thee the rebutment of
factions struggling for superiority, burning
with cnthufiafm, and bursting forth against
each other, with the violence of rage. Long
we saw thee amidst many tempests, ride clear
of the rocks which surrounded thee on every
fide. Still thou waft Fayetti; and though
France, for whom thou waft ready to shed
the last crimson drop from thy veins,calls thee
traitor—tho'ilie has driven thee into the hands
of defpots—tho' tyrants regardless of the laws
of nations confine thee in regions and immure
thee in caftles*of flaverv; ftiUthouart heNvho
bleediog with us in the cause of freedom, en
deared thyfclf to the citizens of America—
still in the land of princes, in the dominions of
monafchs, none is seen great as thyfelf, and
in the land of heroes, thou haft left none thy
rival. We hope with thee that France re
pelling the hosts of slaves which rush against
her—which pour into her fertile fields, may
not m»ed thy fervice—wc hope that Die mav
soon welcome thee to a land of peace and Mr. Adams,
freedom we trust that thou wilt yet rife THE Subscriber observing his name in the
foperiorto misfortunes, and (hine more bright lid (publifhedby authority) of persons volec'
when (he clouds of adversity are dispelled— for, as a lleprefentative to the Congress ol
we knew our wiihes would waft thee to our the United States, for the Fi,ft V,/„,t/_h. ;
and our hearts welcome thee to our takes the earliest opportunity t» express hi'
bofouir we know that poflerity will admire moflt grateful acknowledgments, for the dif
thy vieVes, and future ages venerate thy tinguiihed mark of the confidence of his fel
name. The CITIZENS of AMERICA. low citizens; and to inform them, bis
*Tt n . 7, , , present (itnation obliges him to decline the
lath, .affw'n " itamJuSci honor of being considered as a candidate at
vcjJlltiij Wejtli* Ctrwiny. tseenfui!)gcleflivo. JOyN C. JONES.
MOM Till (OLUMBIAN CENTINEL.
Mr. KussfLL,
Btfpubliiliing the followingExtrafts, they
drill find their way into the Gazette ot
the United States.
A writer in the American DailyAdvertifer,
tinder the signature of Lucius, in stating the
comparative merits of* the two competitors,
ashu ttiles them, for the Vice-Presidency,
(Mr, Adams and Gov. Clinton) lays, " That
to Mr. Adams it has been objected that he is
attached to a government of King, Lords and
Commons ; and that the allegation is true, it
Is to be presumed, will not be controverted.
His writings entitled, " A Defence of the
Ajnerican .Constitutions," and 4 4 pilif-OurVs
upon Davila, fully demonflrate it " I W[lll
hazard a conje&ure here, that Lucius never
read the writings be To candidly pronounces
ientence upon ; or it he has, that he has not
und-srftood them. As a proof Ol whit I al
fert, I herewith fend you an extract of a let
ter from Mr. Adams, to a friend of his, writ
ten July 29th, 1791.
lt You observe that, "that you and I differ in
our ideas of the belt form of government, is
well known to both of us But my dear Sir,
you will give me leave to fay, that I do i>ot
know this.—l know not what your idea is,of
the bell formofgovernment. Yon and I ha*e
never lwd a serious conversation together,
that I recoiled, concerning the nature of go
vernment. The very tranfien't hints that
have ever passed between us, have been jocu
lar and fupsrficial, without ever coming to an
explanation. If you suppose that I have or
ever had, adefign or desire of attempting to
introduce a governmant of King, Lords, and
Commons, or in other words, an hereditary
Executive, or an hereditary Senate, either in
to the government of the United States, or
that of any individual state, you are wholly
mistaken ; there is not such a thought eapreff
ed or intimated in any public writing or pri
vate letter of mine-; and I may fafely chal
lenge all mankind to produce such a palfage,
and quote the chapter and verse."
Let a candid public judge; and he who
doubts, examine for himfelf at the fonntain
head, befoie he adopts an opinion founded
upon reports calculated only to mislead and
decoy. A FRIEND to TRUTH.
FROM. A LATE BOSTON PAPER. '
HUMOUROUS.
THE FRENCH REVOLUTION DEFEATED.
TWENTY-FOUR Frenchmen, in and near
the town of Boflot, have entered a Protest
in the office of a Notary Public in Boston,
against the French Revolution. Upon finding
this to be the cafe, the King oj' Pruflia, and
the Duke of Brunfwick, have returned to
Vienna : There was nothing left for them to
do : Monarchy was restored in alt its pomp,
and splendor; the Baftile was instantly re
built ; all the NoblefTe were restored to the
right of ifTulng "heir Letters de Cachet, ac
coiding to antient usage; and the People'at
once fubinitted to a system of OpprfclTipn,
which they had groaned under for two cei^tu-
ries.
We embrace this opportunity to congratu
late the world on this important discovery.—
The wife and good men in Europe, have long
wished to find out Tome other Arbiter for the
fate of Nations, besides that of \Vai ; but ne
ver once thought of the Notary Public office.
This is an accidental discovery. But what
then ?—lt was by the accidental fall of an ap
ple on his nose, that Newton discovered the
principle of Gravity, which brings a drunkard
upon his forehead, and aflifts the Planets in
their motion.
It is said that Tippoo Saib will be here in
March, to enter a Protest in the fame of
fice against Lord Cornwj»llis, and the Bri
tish Nation, for having found him one half
of his expences : This may be considered as a
breach of the treaty, and his two Boys may
be crucified for it—but then their friends will
protest against it. Socman the Third will be
here very soon, to enter his Protest against
that terrible Woman of Rulfia, for taking
Oczakow, and other ports of his Empire from
him. The King of Poland would come to en
ter his Protest against the fame Woman, for
robbing him of his Kingdom, and his People of
their Liberty—but he has not money enough
to pay the National Fees.—The Secretary at
War will soon arrive from Philadelphia, to
enter his Protest against the Savages,—and
Peace will beeftablilhed throughout the world.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
WHETHER you guefled right or wrong
as to the sameness of the hand that
furniihed thefeveral communications poiiited
at in No. 58, you have Ihewn a friendly dis
position to help out your readers in such con
jectures and let the public judge of the num
ber of your correspondents. lam one of a
number of curious subscribers, who wish to
be informed how many of the other commu
nications which have adorned your paper, are
believed to have come from a /ingle pen. As
you have been so kind as of yourfeif to favor
the public with the intimation in one cafe,
wiiJ doubtJefs do it in the other.
from the impartiality of your papef, it
might almost be looked for as matter of course
without this application. p.
.Boston, December 13,
238
Foreign Affairs.
Ejctrafli Jrom Ley den Gazettes of the 9th and 12 tk
Oclober, 1792.
BON K, (Ger.) Oft. 5-
THE necessity in which the generals of the
combined armies in France have been
under of drawing fucceflively to them all the
German troyps which were on the Rhine, fir it,
the army of General Prince de Ilohenloe
Reichberg, then the corps which had remain
ed under the orders of Count d'Erback, has
left the field open to the French, not only v on
the iide of Tinonville wljeie they carried ofF
a considerable convoy, but also on the Rhine :
Having come from Straiburgh and Fort Lou
is, they attacked with a far superior force
the 3000 Auftrians which formed thegarrifon
of Spire, killed or made them prisoners, took
poiFeflion of the city, and sent the military
stores that were in it to Landau ; the alarm
was spread to Manheim, Worms, and even to
Metz, The inhabitants are taking to flight,
and the confteroation is general. This ex
pedition took place on the 29th September.
Above, on the Moselle, the French have made
a second irruption into the electorate of Tri
ers ; 5300 Frenchmen with 9 cannon entered
Metzig on the 29th, at 7 o'clock A. M. forced
the garrison to evacuate, destroyed the provi
sions, &:c.
Extract oj a letter from Mentz, ?.</ Oflober.
ii The invasion which General Cnftine* has
made, by order of General Biron, into the ter
ritory 'of the Empire ; and the taking of
Spires, with the general magazine of militaiy
(tores for the Imperial army ; has spread ter
ror and confternatioh through all this part of
Germany. Our city is (hut up ; no one can
enter or go out of it. Even the navigation of
the Rhine is flopped, to the great detriment
of commerce. The number of fugitives come
here from Heidelberg, Worms, and all that
part of the Rhine, is considerable- Out of
3000 men who, under the orders of General
Winkelmann, guarded Spire and the military
/lores, very few have escaped. They were
aim oil all killed, drowned in the Rhine, or
made prisoners, they did not however give up
without making the bravest defence. The
French, the greatest part of whom came out
of Landau, were a body of 17 or 18,000 men.
Their ftiperiority was therefore too great to
he ruT.fted. It is said they intend to pursue
their march to this city. Having advanced
to the distance of one league from Kircheim
Pohland, where the Prince of Naflau Weil
bourg resides, the Court retired in hafce at io
o'clock at night, with their mod precious ef
fects, and arrived at Weilbourg. It was on
the 30th of September that Spire was taken,
a stroke which mull be considered as a most
important, if not a decifiv* one."
Extrad of another letter from BruJJcUs, Oflober Bth
" The siege of Lisle ij raifeJ : For some days
past there has returned to Tournay a confi
derable number of waggons,loaded with balls,
ftiells, guns with their carriages, pick-axes,
barrows, &:c. which were at the camp before
the town. It appears that we have fuffered
lofTes on that fide, although the official ac
counts do not acquaint us with the particu
lars. In general, we are much in the dark
refpedling the operations which have taken
place in France and the Netherlands : but,
upon the whole, we fufficiently perceive that
the arms of the combined powers do not meet
with that success which the chiefs of the Emi
grants had taught them to expe&. It is also
well known that the democratical party in
France hope to propagate the principles of
their revolution in all the neighbouring coun
tries. People therefore begin here to be in
a very uneasy situation : the fermentation
which a certain party keeps up in the minds
of the multitude, increasing by the piefent
circumstances, orders have been given to a
military detachment torcp iir to Antwerp,
which is the focus of difaffe&ion. There is also
some agitation at Lorraine, and government
will be obliged to make use. of all their pru
dence, to prevent the etfe<fl of the idea which
begins to prevail, that the fate of the Nether
lands depends upon the success of the efta
blilhment of democracy in France."
* Formerly the Count de Cujline. lie was Co!,
of the Regiment of Sair:tonge 9 in General Rocham
beau's arm-), in Amirica.
+ An imperial city in the Electorate of Triers.
COLOGNE, October 6.
The French army which came from Lan
dau under the command of General Cuftine,
after having laid a heavy contribution on the
Prince Bifliop, Chapter, Clergy, and Citizens
of Spire, continued 011 the 3d instant their
march to Worms ; and as they appear to in
tend to go through Mentz, Darmstadt, and
Frankfort, into the country of Hetie, the
principal inhabitants of those countries take
to flight, and secure their property as well as
they can. This evening we have seen seve
ral persons of diflin&ion arriving from Mentz
and the vicinity. A yatcht ha? brought from
CobJentz the military chest of the Prullian ar
my, with the public records, church orna
ments aud other precious effects. It is said
that that the French vanguard is already at
Kreutznach.
Extrafl oj a letter from Luxev. burgh, OH. 5,
" The accounts which we have from Ver
dun are very melancholy : The Prussian army
has been, for several days, in want of bread,or
ha" had none but of a very b;»d quality, as the
bread which they are obliged to carry there,
from a great distance, arrives ali green and
mouldy. It is nearly the fame with the Auf
triaij army. From our gates to Verdun, the
country is waste and almost a defart. As it
has rained for ibrne weeks together, the road>
are impafT-ble,niul are covered with hundreds
of dead horses."
LEVD oacbcrit.
We are now no longer in an uncertafntv
refpetting the fuccefn of the French armies.
Here follows a copy of a letter from General
Dumourier to the Minuter at War, dated St
Menehould, Oft. I. the iftyearof the Com'
monwealth. [For this letter, fee Gazette cf
the 19th inft.]
Later advices, which we have received by
way of London, add : that the combined ar
m.es, after attempting a negotiation without
lucrek, bad retired with fn much haste t! at
they had left 4or jooo sick in the hofpitai
loft 200 prisoners, and abandoned 23
loaded with provisions and ammunition •
that instead of forcing the French a>nv
capitulate, they had been purfned thimiclvcs
in their retreat ; and that from the direction
of the march of part of their forces, it was
probable they would meet General Cuftine
who is now mailer of all that part .if Germa
ny which borders the Khine, from Spire ta
Mayence.
St. BROU, near St. Sept. 26.
Yesterday the foil of the king of Pruffig dtn
ed with Gen. Dumonrier. We. do not .know
the object of that interview ; but since yes
terday, there has been a ceirution of hoftili
lies, which it is said will last 6 days. For
some days a great number of Pruflianj have
deserted, and come over to ; all attacked
with a dysentery. They badbut one pouu4
of bread for three days.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTAT
MONDAY, Dec-.. , t i 4.
The following petitions vcrc prefcnted 2o<J
read, v'.z.—of Brnjan-.m KV.:- ■
tion of services and i
Cotterill, praying -r„. a In t certifi
cate of James Welch, praj ui fc fcttlement
of an account.
Mr. B. Bourn, of the committee on the pe
tition of Dr. John Bartlet, brought in a report
which is, That after examining the fame, the
committee are of opinion, the prayer thereof
cannot be granted.
The bill for enrolling and licensing of ships or
veflels, to he employed in the eoaftmg trade and
the fifheries, and for regulating the fame, was
brought in engrofled, read the third time, and
the blanks therein filled up. The firft blank,
referring to the time when the aift now in forte
(hall ceaie, was filled with the last day of March
next.
The bill was then passed to be ena&ed.
Mr.Moorc, of the committee on enrolled!-,;)]%
reported " An act concerning the regifterintr &
recordiug of Ihips or vessels," as truly enrolled.
The Speaker then signed the fame.
A letter was read from the Secretary of War
communicating, pursuant to orders from th
President of the United States, sundry doci
merits relative to Indian affairs, received fro
the Governor of Georgia. These documer.i •
contain information of a recent murder of
eight white persons, by the Indians, on the fron
tiers of Georgia. Laid on the table.
The petition of Henry C. Baker, an officer in
the late army of the United States, was read,
praying conipenfation for fervicck during the
war.
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury,
on the petition of Udny Hay, was read: this r<-
port was in favor of the prayer of the petition,
which was for payment of the principal and in
terefl of a note for forty pounds, given during
the late war by two officers of the American ar
my, who had been captured at the northward.
The report was acceptcd by the House, ?nd a
committee appointed t* report a bill pursuant
thereto.
In committee of the whole on the bill to pro
vide for a reimbursement of a loan made of the
Bank of the United States. Mr. White in the
chair.
The bill was read by the chairman, aid the*
conflderedin paragraphs.
The firft fe&ion being read,
Mr. Giles said he was rather in favour of
postponing the business; but if it is peculiarly ad
vantageous to the interefl of the TJnitedStatest#
make provision for this object immediately, he
fuggelled whether it would not 4> e better, if
possible, to provide f©rit without having recourft
to the expedient of a new l»an. He >vas averse
fr©m increasing the debt of the United States by
additional loans. He was rather in favour ofap
plying the property belonging to the United
States in the Bank of the United States for the
purpose. He therefore moved, that the fe&ioa
should be struck out which provides for a loan,
in order to substitute a clause providing for the
sale of the (hares in the bank, owned by the I T .
States, that the proceeds may be applied to the
reimbursement of the loan.
Mr. Sedgwick doubted whether the motioq
was in order, as it went to a totally different
objedt from any fpecified in the bill.
The chairman remarked, that a motion to
lb-ike out the fe<stion,was in order.
Mr. Fitzfimons obferted, that if the idea oi
the gentleman was adopted, he was clearly o
opinio; - ., that the sale of the {hares wouli not
produce a sum adequate to the abje<&; as bringj
iag such a number of (hares to market won
undoubtedly reducc the price greatly below t \t
present market-price.
Mr. Giles said he was rather desirous of a polt
poncment of the fubjed:; he was not prepaie
to decide upon it; he fufpe«sled m?n gentlemen
in the committee were in the •- ;dicament;
he wculd therefore withdraw his motion or
ftr -ting out, under a persuasion that nofudoen
w ;/!. take place.
Mr. l i.alimons slated fercral reafoni why the
cor. lit tee should proceed in the bufincfi; pf
ti:; t involves an economical disposal o
pr.. - ,:ow lying ufeleis; and a provifiou W
1 . - - r-tlie support of the public credit; no encreafe oi
the public debt is contemplated, laid he, but di
refily tlie reverie.
Mr.Chrkl'aid he never, wh'le he had a feat
in the house, would content to a foreign loan,
unlels the exigencies of the country were much
greater than at prel'ent. He had rather pay 7t
percent to our own utizeus than 5 per ceut to
foreigsers- He obje&ed to the indefinitenefs
of the fe&ion, and moved to amend it by add
ing a clause which Ihould confine the loan with
in the United States.
Mr. Fitzlimons suggested to Mr. Clark a
proviso agreeable to his own idea, that the in
terest be at 6 per cent.
Mr. Clark replied —he said he had no doubt
ilmight be had M 6p?rcent. or less.
Mr. Williamfon said, he wiflied the gentle
man would point out, how he would contrive
to prevent foreigners from being our creditors,
even by confining the loan to the United States?
at an intereflof6 percent, you will in fait give
a premium of above ao,ooo dollars per annum,
which might be saved by opening a loan at 5 per
cent, in Europe;—devile what contrivance you
please, said Mr. Williarufon, it mult be a foreign
loan.
Mr. Boudinot observed, that the motion o!
his colleague amounted to the fame thing in the
» result, as the motion for striking out th« i'e&ion.
The loan is now at 6 per cent. To lay that a
new loan lhall be made at 6 per cent, to pay it
off, is losing all the advantages proposed by the
bill. He was therefore against the motion.
' Mr. Giles moved,that the commit fce Ihould
rife and report progress; he observed that very
material information was wanted, in his opini
on, to enable the committee to preceed under
ftandingly in the bufiaefs, The motion for the
committee's riling', was put and negatived.
\Tr. Clark's motion, to amend the seCtion by
aiding tl." word within before " United States,"
ft aiitrcMof iveu.
Tilt vsrui.mtea proceeded through the difcuf
flon of the retraining fu&ions.
Mr. M'.oiibn offered frveral observations to
fcew the propriety of postponing the bill for a
few days, in order to the memburs having time
to revolve in their minds several propositions
which have been suggested in relation to this bu
fmefs:—Whether, by an appropriation of the
sum, which, it is fa id, now lays dormant in the
Treasury—Whether by a sale of the shares in
the bank, or by a loan, to provide for the objecft.
Mr. Fit|fimons flatedfome objeiftions to what
_ fell from the gentleman last l'peaking. The gen
tleman's idea goes to an immediate interference
with an appropriation already made, and leaves
to a contingency a proviSon to supply its place.
Mr. Madison replied to Mr. Fitzfimons; he
tl'.onght the gentleman offered as good a reason
as he co-lid have suggested in favour of applying
the money in the treasury to the objedt now in
queltion.
Mr. Giles urged postponement—he remarked
that (he 2eal shewn by some gentlemen, to pre
.lipkafe the bulinefs to a decision, amounted to
an ejKile-efjieljheratioß cn-thefubjc<9-.
•Mr. Sedgwick stated several reasons which
remiered it absolutely necessary that no delay
should tak« plate. A motion being made, that
the committee should rife and report the bill;
the fame being put, was agreed to.
The committee rose accordingly and reported
the bill with one amendment; which was, to
Alike out the word " fifteen" in the firft fedh
on, referring to the lime for which the loan
ihould be made—this amendment was agreed to
by the house, and the bill laid on the table by ge
neral consent.
Mr. i*arker moved the following resolution :
That the Secretary of the Treasury be directed
to lay before this House an account of the appli
cation of the monies borrowed in Antwerp and
Amsterdam for the United States, during the
preient year. This motion was agreed to.
A memorial of Joseph Bennett, and a memo
rial oifundry merehauts & others of the borough
W?!mington, were presented by Mr. Madi-
f ot\ : . ead and referred to the Secretary of the
Treasury.
A petition of Anthony Harnmill, was present
ed by Mr. Ames, and read.
Adjourned till Wedncfday.
Philadelphia, Dec. 26.
Yesterday being Chrifhnas, the Day was
oljfeived with the usual folemn.ities —Divine
Service being performed in the Churches of*
fix or leven different denominations of Chris-
tians.
The Constitution to be formed by the Na
tional Alterably of France, is not to be eflab
jifhed until it is ratified by all the primary af
iembhes of the people.
A Mannfaflory of Sail-Cloth is now eitab
liflied on the Island of Nantucket, which em
ploys more persons than the five Ropewalk l ;,
and ten manufactories of SpennacetiCandles,
on that Island.
We are well informed that Mr. Wignel and
the new Company of Comedians are on board
the (hip Montgomery, every hour expedted
at New-York from London. There are cer
tain accounts of this /hip having failed on the
14th October. 1
The price of Mr. Blanchard's tickets of
adiiiifTion to the iKroftatical Experiment, is
i'ive Dollars each.
The New-York papers fay, that counterfeit
French Crowns are in circulation, well exe
cuted, hut only walhed with silver, which ea
sily rubs off.
£xt<-a, r t of a tetter from Richmond, dated Dec. 16,
" A letter from A. Campbell, dated loth
inft. gives information that a Captain Hanlv,
from the Southern Territory, on his march
with 40 men, to the relief of Mero diftrift,
was attacked by the Indians in ambuscade.—
Hitnfelf and 12 fell on the fpot—ll miffing—
16 have go: fafc in, &c."
r r /'"' &Hei Dec. ,
, T PatjixtMit Planter we have rece'n
ed London papers to tlie MWi'Oft ,i , h
confirm' the account of t £ «
doubtable Duke ol'Brunfwick."
The jollo-wingu an extras of a Utu
from a rypalabte gsutUman at tl
hague a.ud Otlotcr y, b , wht j
a vtJJJ arrived «t Baltimore frc.,
London. J
" The gazelles incloled will inform
you ot the bombarding of Lille -V -e
lias circulated here, to-day, ,} the
Aultrian army havmgnetircd frotfi thai'
place. I cannot fay whether it is Co be
depended on. There being no official
iupplement publilhed, according to ctif
torn, vvuh the Bruffcls Gazette, indicates,
at least, no fuccels having taken place.
Another report, better authentica
ted, which circulates here, and which is
written from BruffeU, by the Britiih i)ii
niiter there, to the ambaflador at this
is, that the combined armies have
been obliged to make a retrogade move
ment, supposed to proceed from the abso
lute want of provi(ions--a mortality which
had taken place among their hoifes, and
difcafes among their men. If this is the
cafe, and that they fliould be forced to
retire from France, it will be attended,
probably, with consequences of a serious
nature for themklves, and place the con
teit in a very unexpected position.
" The last accounts from Bruifels, be.
fore this, were, that the Irer-ch army
was fo'furrounded as to have allied to ca
pitulate. 1 his was so fully believed, that
the govei nment of the Low Countries sent
an express with it to their minister here,
who immediately announced it in such a
public and official manner, as to have
somewhat exposed that government, it
being now certain that the details and
circumstances, as then related and said to
be received from the King of Pruflia,
were not true. I
" On the French fide, they (late this
offer of capitulation as an overture of ne
gociation from the Duke of Brunfwick.
" A letter which 1 have just seen, be
ing the copy of an extract of one from
Gen. Dumourier, at St. Menehoud, to
Gen. Biron, at Strafburg, affirms this to
have been the cafe—a truce had been a
greed on, as he states it, between his ar
my, and the' Pruflian army alone.
adds, " Le Due de Brunfwick tiaß fpbft
cd all by fending me a declaration : so
no more truce, as I ftiall annouce to him
this evening." This was the iftofOdio
ber. He adds, that he had begun to op
pose the enemy with an army of 17,000
men, and that he now had 100,000. ■
That the duke of Brunfwick had begun
with 80,000, of which he had already
loft 25,000 —and other things of this
kind, in his style. Altho' the details of
his letter are certainly exaggerated, yet
they serve to (hew that he is no longer in
the difficult position in which he was not
long before, and which gave rife to the
intelligence mentioned from BruiTcls.
" The account you will fee in the Ley
den supplement of to-day, of the French
havingenteredtheempire, may berelicd on,
they hi e also in pofTeffion of Savoy, where
the people join them, and are for muni- ;
cipalizing their country. Should these
dispositions pass the Alps, and seize the
lower order of people, nothing will be a
ble to prevent its raging all Italy, their
force and number being out of all pro
portion with the people of property, and
the military, and where, in many parts,
the military would probably join them."
General James Jackson is elected a Sena
tor of the United States for the state of Geor
gia, in the room of the Hon. Wm. Few, wbofe
time will expire the March next.
The following gentlemen are ele&ed Re
presentatives in the third Congress of the
United States, for the state of MaiTachu
ietts:
First Diftrift—Hon. Fiflier Ames, Benja
min Goodhue, and Samuel Dexter,E!qrs.
Second Diftrift—Hon. Artemas Ward, and
Theodore Sedgwick, Efqrs.
Third Dilh ift—Hon. PelegCoffin, jun. Esq.
Fourth Diftrift —Hon. Gjorge
Efq n ire.
Fifth Diftrift —Hon. Davicl Cobb, Esq.
The 14th January the residue of the repre
sentation frcm that state, consisting of fix
members, are to be voted for.
The electors of the state of Vermont were
unanimous for George Washington & John
Adams, as President and Vice-President of
the United States.
The electors of the state of Georgia all voted
for George Washington and Gov. Clinton.
Columbia fS. C.) Dec. 6. Yesterday the elec-
tion wa* held in this place, for the office of
Preiident and Vice-President of the United
States. —The votes were as follow :
for George Washington, 8
John Adams, 7 Aaron Burr, i
239
inte,li B en « frb.n Guadeloupe
"•irtinicu announces, that on the Ift Nov.
every t.nng there wa, tranquil, an,l theg-eat
and rv ' l(icd tile Planter;
- Citizins. Ihe towns began to realise
,< - d " r » t ' on "t their tranquility. The pro-
at a moderate price.
White fujar from ' 13 to 16 <1 >',tars
Brown do. from g tQ ?
Molaues two piftareeire per gallon
rim trom 7 to 8 dollars per hundred
In November the weft part of the island of
Hifpan.ola was perfectly leftored to peace—
brown (agar was fold at 8 dollars, andlriolaffcs
*t f ; „ s ot the Wands, the | V .llr,n. The
Provinces worth and south, ft.il p-efent a
Ipe.Ucle as oefolation ; but the preparations
<on(lantlv making encouraged the hope of the
i[>ecj.ty return of order and tranquility.
[Courier de t'Univerfc.']
We are informed, that it is seriously spoken
«, 111 t.ie islands of Martinico and Guada
loupc, to make application to the Biitifh go
vernment to take those islands under the ju
n.du'ion ot Its laws, if the new order of
flings in France (hould be e!labliihed.
The election ofßeprefentatives in Coneicfs
for the state of New-York, takes place 011 the
fourthl Tuesday of January next; and the
canvavers meet on the fourth Tuefdav fol
lowing the Tuelday on which the election be
gins, to count the ballots, and declare the per
sons elected.
COMMUNICATIONS.
As the people cannot adminijler government them.-
Rives, they arc compelled to delegate the trufl.
From that moment a feparaec inter efl prefnts it
filf. In Jome of /V agents .virtue will reft A the
temptation The fear of dete&itm ft.// V
cJJ>as. But in tne Intajis wkei* avimct prevails
this praHice will be conjlant in its efforts to turn the
public ccmmiffion to private account. This is human
natuie. To be fare of it, refleß on the abufs that
would swarm in a body of men appointed for life,
and concealed, from the public eye. The fame re
fection warns the people to vigilance in exercijtrrg the
rights of election, and in obfeiving the con duff of
those who obtain their temporary confidence. It ef
pecially warns them that their duties become more ur
gent in proportion to the difiance oj those in public
J rom the eye of their conflituents, and the fc
crecy of the opporiiniities for taking advantage of
their Jituation. A delegate three or four, tr fven
or eight hundred miles ojf y at a place fet do m visited
by an acquaintance, farcely ever by a. rival, escapes
much of the responsibility felt by members of a local
legislature. Avd where a great public debt is under
the management of the government, and a great mo
vied inflitution is combined with both y what peculiar
alluremenrs what dangerous opportunities, arise
from the hidden manner in which certain paper tranf
anions may be conduced ? The true patriot mho con
siders these things zuill not the less exhort the people
to refpett the laws and dfcharge their public obliga
tions. But the fatje one alone will advije the people
to place a blind reliance on the virtue of their rulers ;
■ tv rwn a dejj car ta every juggefiian of aHfes ; to
make no diflinttion between the mea furls of the go
vernment itfef, and to regard as secret enemies of
the latter all who freely examine the sources and
tendencies cf the former.
The funding system of the United States must
daily appreciate in the estimation of the people.
1 he superior policy of placing the finances of our
country under the management of one per/on is
flrikingly aprarent when we find that there a
roong the oppofe'rs of the fyftrm as many differ
ent plans as there are individuals who compofc
the opposition.
It has been noticed ; and the circumstance
merited attention—that the funding system of
the United States which has so wonderfully re
trieved and cftabliHtied our national credit, has
combined with the benefits of the individual
creditors, peculiar advantages to the government
—advantages encreafing with the funds, and ex
panding with the resources of our country—-and
yet— it can hardly be believed, this circumflance
is a fubjed oi cavil.
EXTRACTS
From the Speech of his Excellency Gov. Martin,
to the Legijlature of North-Carolina.
u WHEN we contemplate that part of the
Federal Constitution which has limited the
Supreme Executive of the United States to
the duration in office for four years, and then
to descend to the class of* private citizens,
from among whom the person to fill that high
offic* again is to be railed, by the people of
these states; we cannot but feel our own dig
nity in fticli a government, and be aft'e&ed by
such a distinguished privilege ; by which supe
rior and exalced merit may be rewarded by
re-appointment, or demerit deposed; and
such other person calied forth to this station,
as will befl answer the expectations of a free
people, in administering and securing their
government.
44 And now, having compleated nearly the
period of office, ascertained by the constitu
tion of government of this state, for the con
tinuance of the executive in the fame person,
with picafure I shall mingle with my fellow
citizens, and feel with them the effects whe
ther good or had, of that administration in
which I have been concerned. Imp re fled in
the mean while with the mofl lively sense of
gratitude, I retnrn you my molt hearty thanks
for the honors of the government the legiilu
ture have been pleated repeatedly to confer
on me—happy in the reflexion, if in any mea
sure I have answered the expectations of my
country. My warmest wilhes atterd you in
fixing your choice on a AiccelTor, whose repu
tation and abilities may do honor to your ap
pointment, and give dignity to the govern
ment of a people, for whose profpei ity and
national happiness I feel myfelf much inter
ested, and for whom my prayers (hull never
be wanting.''
mOM THE VIUftrNlA Av^ktte
Richmond, Dtut.bc* g , V
MR. CARfcY, J '
THE following impromptu was written on
the report, that the electors of this <Ute i,,
con eq.unce olI their having unaniimiufly voted
for Govei nor Canto., as Vicc-Prslklen't, w ei e
contun. 'I.oudv cll.d Jacol.irs,
■ laving remarked and ' 'he freer »■
»« vour J have (üb.n.tted lt ti.ro, I
your medium to the public.
himfMf 7 '-'I 6 i, n ' lll lU?i '° re '' f jerr " r) "' t"
. ' Wlth h, "> you are at liberty t,.e.i-ct
ail interview with the authur.
■ r "^ u)l ' <^ans rejoice ! your in
cftimublc privileges Tlie jrenhiT
<>J America is awake. • The tutelary faint of
\"rgn.m is routed. The electors ut'fhis flat.
" u "- l »iinoiiny given their futtrripes to On
vernor Clinton, as Vice-Prefident. Governor
ClintOT is a republican both in principle and
hte V?« P T r/"" Clp ' eSs°f Mr " Ad " m -t'«
, Vice Prcfideilt > are reprobated—his boolc
r «^ ime ')ts—his late con
ed herrH-f and . h,s having reco'iniiiend
ed hereditary monarchy, and hereditary arif
tocracv, are all, all reprobated. The mono
crats, aristocrats, highflyers, mushrooms, *11
hang their heads; and while the friends of
me.l, fine psalms, hallelujahs, and anthems, to
the tunc of regenerating freedom j. they who
• n. to dethrone the sacred nia
jslty of the people, may perform the last fu
neral obfequy and ling the last melancholy
dirge to adamitica] principles.
Yes! ye men of Belial regeneration is at
your heel,, and ere lone, fl* will bold yon „p
hated and avoided, as yon are now furpsfted
a«d despised. Your chariots, your pomp, your
y S" r COurt etlt ' uette » your cries of
edition, and your r«proaclie« against trwd re-
. All eye.
wUJ (>e opened; the fatal issue of your abom
nable fchmnes will be developed; then you
will hate and execrate each other yourfehc*
as you now deserve it, from all tlic- race of
You call the electors Jacobins, as a mark
of contumely; in that view they despise you,
and ask, that a man lha!l avow himfelf. But
why fay, Jacobith? Are they not the authors
oftbe greatcftand mofl: glorious revolution
Of which the annals ofhHfcory can fcoafc? Have
they not looted the (hackles of slavery from
thirty millions oi people ! Have they not fan
ned the sacred blaze of Hfcerty, in every re
gion of the earth > Have they not.dethroned
tyranny, monarchy, aristocracy, prieftcrafr,
and all their satellites f Have thev not set up
and crowned the mi K hfy majefty'of human
kind over the punyifm of individual: Yes!
the Jacobins of France have dime ail this
The French have no longer a Jting ; they are
iio longer (laves; they are free; and there
fore you despise them.
But future ages, when they trace the fiif.
Tory of man, when theycontemplatc the rat
logue otitpes, Which blackeff tfiefSges
tiquity, will at this eventful epoch make a
complacent pause, and drop the tear of grati
tude to the memory of those who so much con
tributed to emancipate the human race.
The revolutions have blasted your hopes*—
t,he kings, or tyrants of Europe, have leagued
against them ; and why do you not go * The
Duke of Brunfwick will receive you—he will
embrace you, and you will Ihew the lie p!u«
ultra of human depravity ; Americans aiding"
and abetting kings and tvrants to reduce to
bondage thirty millions of people, whose blood
and trcafure were exhauded to purchase your
country's freedom ! Go hence, and take with
you the last feed—the last shoot, the last fcyon
of yourftock; and let that bold effayeft, as
yonr crusading champion, whose head, heart,
and hand have been employed to ftp the im
prescriptible and defined rights of hi 5 country
men, be announced to kings and their cut
throats, by his herald, as a voluntary fugitive
from a country where men will cease to be,
or live free. , *
Thanks to you, electors—all the friends of
liberty will thank yoi.—future agej»
will revere and venerate your names Hea
ven and your own conscience will reward
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Ccr.ts, 20/
3 per Crnis, , ,y,o
Deferred, 4. , 2 y 4
Full /hares Bank U. S. 37 per cent. piem.
To the Public.
The Subscribers having been appointed a
cominittec of the Board of the Truftecs of
the Uriiverfiiy of North-Carolina, for the pur
pofeof if ceiving proposals from fueh gentlemen
as may intend to undertake the inftiu&iofi of
youth in that inftnuiion, take the opportuniiy
of making known to the public their wish that
such gentlemen should fignify their inclination
to the fubJcribers.
The ol jecls to which it is contemplated by
the Board ro turn the attention of the ftudtnu,
on the firft cfiabliflimcnt, are—The study of
Languages, particularly the English— Hiflory,
ancient and modern—the Bclle-lettrcs— Logic
and Moral Philosophy—the knowledge of the
Mathematics and Natural Philosophy— Agricul
ture and Botany, with the principles of Archi-
Ufture.
Centlemen conversant in these branches of
Science and Literature, and who can be well re-p
commended, will receive ve»v handsome encou
ragement by the Board. Ihe exercjfes of the
inllitution will commence as eaily a p«>ffiblc
attrr the completion of the buildings of the t'riu
verfity, which arc to be contrasted for immtdi-
SAMUEL ASHE,
*cly
A. MOORE,
10HN* HAYE,
DAVID SI ONE,
SAM. M'COKKLES.
I)*s cpsm
*
~ HEWtCO,*
m
PRICE CURRENT.
f«R OOANTITY.—DoIIars 100 Cents each.
PHILADELPHIA, December 26.
Dlh. Cls. Dlh. Ch.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 1 10
Alium, Knglilh, pr.cwt. 4 33 ,
Ditto, Rorh pr. lb. 1
Aflies, pot, per ton, 120
. Pearl, *37 *4° £
Arrack pr. gall. 1 33
Brandy, common, 75
Coniac 93
Braziletto,pr. ton. 3 2 34
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7
Bread, fliip, pr. cwt. 1 "7 2
Ditto, pilot 3 7
Ditto, small water, per keg 3" 4°
Beer, American, in bottles, ]
pr.doz. bottles included, 1 j
Ditto pr. barrel, 4 " i
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20
New England 12
Oak ' *4
Merchantable pine 20 24
Sap, do. 12 '3 ,
■ Mahogany, per foot 10 .
Ulie above are the shallop prices*
for the yard price, add 1 dol
lar 33 cents per 1000.
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. 2 >
Beef, Boston, per barrel 7
Country ditto 6 7
-f Frelh, per cwt. 333 4 7
Butter pr. l'b.
in kegs 9 lC
Candles, Sperm, pr. lb. 43
Wax 6*3 5 b
• I—Myrtle Wax *3
Mould, tallow 11 1
Dipped 10
Cheese, Englilh, pr. lb.
Country ® 10
Chocolate
Cinnamon 2 4°
Cloves , 1 32
Cocoa pr. cwt. *9
Coffee pr. lb. 1 7
Coal pr, bulhel
Copperas pr. cwt. * '
Cordage, American, p«* cwt. 707
Cotton pr. lb. 2 7 3'
12
Currants
Duck,Ruflia, pr. piece 11 33
Ravens 8 93 9 "7
Dutch fail duck, 20
Feathers pr. lb. 4&
Flax ditto 11
Flaxfeec; pr. bufti. 1 10
Flour, Superfine pr. barrt! 5 53
Common, 5 2 ®
Bur middlings, best 4 53
Meal, Indian 3
ditto Rye, 3 *3
Ship-(tuff pr. cwt. 80 t 5o -
Fuftie pr. ton, 20
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 66
Do. pr. gall. 8s 90
Glue, pr. cwt. 21 33
Ginger, white race, per lb. 7
Ditto, common 7
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 10
Ginseng, 20 2 4
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.cafk, 3 73 4
Ditto, fine glazed 4
Grain, Wheat pr. bufli 1 3
Rye 60
Oats 35
. Indian corn 53
Barley 1 1 3
Bed {helled pr. lb. 7
Buckwheat, per bufti. 4 C
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 120 146 67
American, pr. lb. 4
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9
Hops 2 7
Hogfti*ad hoops, pr. M. 15
Indigo, French per lb. 1 20 1 ,53
■ Carolina 1 1 2c
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 33
Iron, Catlings pr. cwt, 3 4
Bar pr.ton, 91
Pig 24 26 67
■ Sheet 173 33
-—Nail rods 110 111
Junk, pr. cwt. 4 5
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9 10
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 533 567
in bars 7
• -white 10 10 67
red 6 40 6 671
Leather, foal, pr. lb. 17 20
Lignum vitas pr. ton, 60 6
Logwood 30
Mace pr. lb. ' q
Mackarel, bell pr. bbl, 8
f cond quality 6 4
Xladder, heft pr. lb. 16 20.
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 1 33 2 67
Mafl spars ditto 33
Molaffrs pr.gall. 53 57
Muflard per. lb. 87
——flour, in bottles, pr.doz. 1 2c
Nails, Bd. io<f. i2cf. and 20d. pr.lb. ic
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8
Oil, Linseed, pr. gall. 63
—Olive - 87
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-Ilreet, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfell
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begsleave to offer
his services to his friends and others, in the lint
ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
*or him with their bufvnefs, may depend upon
having it tranfafled with the utmost fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia,Bofton, or any othe
part of the United States will be ftriftly attend
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKF.R.
(t.f.)
Asa» th
nils. Cts. DUs. Cts.
Oil, Ditto pr cafe 2 5°
Sweet, best, in fla(ks,pr.b6x 10 5°
Ditto balkcts, 12 bottles 5
Spermaceti pr. gall.
Train 2 4
—Whaic 22 2 4
Porter pr. cask, & 33
London, pr.doz. 1
American ditto bot.incl. 1 4 1
Pitch, pr. bbl 1 73 2..
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 50 °7
Lower county 10
Carolina 9
Peas, Albany pr. bushel
Pepper, pr. lb. 3
Pimento *9
Raisins, best, pr. keg
Ditto 2
Ditto pr. box 2 3
Rice pr. cwt. 3
Rosin pr. barrel 2 70
Rum, Jamaica, pr. gallon 1 ?
Antigua *
Windward
Barbadoes
Country, N. E.
Salt petre,pr. cwt. <4 33
SaU~afras pr. ton 6 8
Shot ditto 14° M l
Steel, German pr.lb. 9
Englifh,bliftered, pr. cwt. 10
American pr. ton Jl 3 33
Crowley's pr. faggot 10
Snake root pr. lb. 20 42
Soap, Brown per lb. 6
White 8
Cartile 11
Starch 7
Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4 5 6°
Spermaceti, re fined, pr. lb. 1
Sailcloth, Englini,No.i,pr. yard.,
Boston, No. I. ditto 3°
No. 11. *9
Sugar Lump, |>r. lb 2 4
Loaf, single refined 2 5
Ditto, double do. 3^
—■ —Havannah, white >7
Ditto, brown, 11
Muscovado, pr. cwt, 13 *5
Spirits Turpentine pr. gallon 37
Salt, Allum pr. bushel 44
Liverpool 47
Cadiz 33
Lisbon 37
Shipbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, 3,5
Ditto Live Oak, 18 67
Ditto red cedar, per foot 33 4°
Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 3 33 3 67
Ditto 2 feet, £ 33 6
Ditto 3 feet, dressed, 13 15
Staves, Pipe pr. 1000 32 •
While Oak hogshead, 20 33
Red Oak do. 19 50
Leogan 21 33
Barrel 16
Heading 25 33
Skins, Otter, best pr. piece 4 67
Minks 20 40
Fox, grey 40 8c
Ditto t *0
Martins 24 1
Fifhcrs 33 67
Bears 3
Racoons 27 60
Musk-rats 11 20
Beaver, pr. lb. 67 1 33
Deei, irvhair 20 30
Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal.p. bbl. 1
Carolina, 32 gall. 1 33 1 67
Turpentine pr. bbl. 1 67 2
Tobacco, J. River, best loolb. 3Go 373
inferior 3 33
old 4 67
Rappahannock 3 33
Coloured Maryland, 5 S3 ®
Dark, 2 40
Long-leaf 2 40
Eaftern-fliore 2 2 93
Carolina,new 3 7 3
-old, g 33
Tea, Hyson pr. lb. 93 1 28
Hyson skin, 60
Souchong, 50 93
Congo, 43 50
Bohea, 33 56
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9
Tin pr. box, 1333 i 3 67
Vetdigreafe pr. lb. 47 53
Vermillion, do. 1 33 1 &7
Varnish, per gallon 33 37
Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 27
Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 226
Lisbon 120 126
Teneriffe, pr. gallon 63
Fayal $2
Port pr. pipe "3 33
Ditto in bottles, pr.doz. 4
Claret 4 6 |
Sherry pr.gall. 90 1 20
Malaga 77 80
COURSE OF F.XCUAKCE.
On London, at 30 days, per £ .100 fterl. 433 33
■ at 60days 67
at 90 aays 23
Amsterdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 09
90 days, 38
To the Public.
' I 'HE fubferibe begs leave to acquaint the pub
-1- lie in genetal, and his customers in particu
lar, that he has entered into partneilhip witb
Mr. HEN KAMMERER, and that the Print
ing business in the Englilh and- German languages
is now c, rrird on unde-the firm of STEINER
and KAMMERER, N'». 85, in Race-street, be
twen Sccond and Third-ftreeu.
The German Newspaper will he publifted bv
hem, as ufual,on TuefJays, 2T >d all kind of Print
ng work done with carp ami expedition.
MEI.CHIOR STEINER,
Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 1795,
>-)
bank of the united states.
Phi lad el phi a, November 20, 1 79 2 -
THE Stockholders of the Bank ot the United
States afe hereby informed, that according
to the statute of incorporation, a general elcftion
for twenty-five Direft'TS will be held at the Bank
cf the United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the seventh day of January next, at
ten o'cock in the forenoon.
, And purfuan to the eleventh feftion of the
Bye-Laws, the Stockholders of the said Bank are
herebv'notified to assemble in general meeting
,it the lame place, on Tuesday the eighth day of
»_nuary uext, at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President and Dire£fors t
JOHNKEAN, Cashier.
advertisement.
Between December \JI, 1792.
William Shipley In the high Court olChance
Complainant, ry of the State of Ncw-
John Meng and o- Jersey.
thers Defendants. Prefert,
His Excellency the Chancellor.
THE Complainant having filed his bill of
Complaint againfl the Defendants *n the
month of September, seventeen hundred and
ninety-one, and in the said Bill of Complaint did
among other things set forth that the said Com
plainant being seized in his Demrfne as of fee
of and in a certain Tract of Land, said to contain
nine hundred and thirty acres, situate, lying and
being in the township of Hardwick in the coun
ty of Sussex in the State of New-Jerfcy, did on
thefirft of March seventeen hundred and eighty
five, bargain fell and convey the fame in fee lim
ple unto John Meng and John Henderfon of the
citv of Philadelphia, William Goodwin and
John Town, for the consideration of One Thou
, sand Six Hundred Pounds in Gold or Silver —
' That 011 the fifth day of the fame month of
' March the said feoffees above named did execute
1 unto the said William Shipley a Deed of Movt
-1 gage in fee simple of the said Tra£l of Land to
: lecure the payment of the said sixteen hundred
I pounds, with the lawful interest which might
> thereon accrue—That in the year seventeen hun
-5 dred and eighty-fix the said John Meng and
■ William Goodwii did become Bankrupts with
in the intent and meaning of the a&s of the Le
gislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
and such proceedings were had against them that
in the fame month they' were duly declared
Bankrupts ; and that they the said John Meng
and William Goodwin did in some fliort time
afterwards convev and transfer all their estate
both real and personal, and particularly all their
right and title to the premises above mentioned
to John Field, Curtis Clay, James C. Fifhcr,
Isaac Wharton, John Kaighn and Arthur Collins
all of the city of Philadelphia, fubjeft to the
Mortgage so as aforefaid given to the said Com
plainant.—That the said John Field, Curtis
Clay, James C. Fisher, Isaac Wharton, John
Kaighn and Arthur Collins soon after bargained,
fold and conveyed all their Right and Title of
and in the said Tract of Land unto Benjamin
' Town of the city of Philadelphia, and John
Town, fubje£l to the Mortgage aforefaid—That
on the eighteenth day of Odtober seventeen hun
dred and eighty-five, the said John Town and
Benjamin Town did execute another Mortgage
to the said William Shipley for securing the pay
ment of twelve hundred pounds in certain in
stallments—That in the month cf January seven
teen hundred and eighty-fix, John Town did
bargain and fell in fee imple all his Right and
? Title to the laid premises, to the said Benjamin
1 Town, fubjeft to the Mortgages aforefaid—That
in the month of February seventeen hundred and
; eighty.eight, the said Benjamin Town did con
vey all his Right and Title to the said premifei,
3 to John Field and Curtis Clay of the city of Phi
-3 delphia, upon certain Trusts unknown to theal
j Complainant—That said Benjamin Town the
J soon after became Bankrupt, and in pursuance .
of the bankrupt laws of the State of Pennfylva-
D nia. did convey all his estate real and personal
b to a certain Robert Ralfton—That John Hen
g derfon did alfoin the month of September seven
teen hundred and eighty-faven become a Bank
g rupt, and under the bankrupt laws of the State
of Pennsylvania, did aflign and convey all his
estate real and personal to David Lenox, George
Hughes, Matthew Clarkfon, Peter Baynton and
Richard Bache—And the Complainant doth in
and by his laid Bill, pray that those having
1 Right to the said Estate may be decreed to pey
him what is due on the said Mortgages, or that
the equity of Redemption be forclofed by the
Decree of this Court.
And now upon opening this matter this day
by Richard Stockton, Esquire, being of the com
plainants counsel—it appearing to the Court
1 that the f.iid defendants do refirie in the State
of Pennsylvania, without the jurifdifiion of this
Court; and it appearing further to this Court
j that writs of fubpeena have been taken out ac
-1 cording to the course of this Court, that the said
writs ot fubpeena have been duly fcTved upon
the said several Defendants upwards of one
year from this day ; and that none of the said
Defendants have caused his or thrir appearance
3 to be entered in this Court to the suit of the said
Complainant : It is therefore ordered by his
Excellency the Chan ellor, that rhe said De
fendants do cause their appearance to be entered
to the suit of the above Complainant according
to the rules of this Court in two months from
this day, or that the Plaintiffs bill be taken pro
confeffo agreeably to the dire&ions of the a6t of
the Legislature in such cafe made and provided.
—The Complainant giving notice and making
publication of this rule as in and by the said a&
ol the Legislature is provided.
WILLIAM PATERSON, Chancellor.
December ijl t 1792. ep 310
240
ADVERTISEMENT.
Gazette is publifhedin North Fifth-Street,
No. 34, between High and Mulberry Streets—inhere
the Editor note refrdes.
A LARGE CELLAR TO LET,
Sufficiently capacious to [lore liveral hundred ban els.
The price of fins Gazette u <>. r t< i'o iars
per annum—One helj to be pdid ai the time oj sub
scribing.
Er. quire ju ihor
S«*atill bi fuiUjkei,
mi sys re M»t
Used by Mr.L lo y d, in taking down the Debitrs
otCongrefs. A system so easy, that any man,
of ordinary capacity, mny clearly rompichend
ir in half an hour, and f«»on ora&ife ii v in us
fulleft extent, without any further irlUuttion,
than what will be conveyed in a few page*,—-
the whole ART being Comprised in tighrtiti
Jimple cha.ia.Rcrs, without anv of ihofe perplexing
arbitrary maiks, with which the learners of
other systems are obliged to burden their me
mory, and embarrass their prafhee.
Price, to Suhfcribers. One Doilar— to Non-
Subscribers, a Dollar and half.
Subscriptions received by MrflYs. Rice, Book
fcllers, Market-street, and by
JOl'| N CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street,
Half a Dollar to be paid at the time of Jutfcribivr.
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful (ituation on the P»_
towtnack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and inalineof Oireftion towards the Fttferifl
City and George Town,in full view of each place
commanding a profpift of the river and adjacent
country of Maryland and Virginia, fdr man*
miles ; about 45 or s o acres of Land, lying di
reflly on the river, will be fold, with the im.
provemcnts, which are, a two-story fran)<4
d welling-houfe, neatly finilhed, a kitchen, office,
brick smoke-house and dairy, two-ftorv framed
bam, a well of excellent water, and' an ice
houie, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of oihw ne»
ceiTary improvements ; the whole of the lin«
enclosed with pofls and rails, tenor fiftefp acre*
laid down, with different kinds of grafts- Irs
contiguity totliofe three towns mull ren ;■ rs: an
object worthy the attention of any perm wlu
wishes to invert money in a property 1 «i rau4
enhance in »alue, in proportion to the 1 •cl in.
create ot the Federal City, Alexant . ni
George-Town. This property ties hea#f in I
central fiiuation to each place. The PotSwfnack
at this spot has a fine deep fhorc and Irtrbour,
capable of receiving vessels of anv burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that nra of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be ereficd here to the Citv
Wafbington and the Maryland (hores leading t6
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.—AKo to f«ll, 815
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which Will suit well to supply the above in
wood and timber. The title may be feeli to the
above property, which isindifpulable.and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, livnip
on the premises.
December 12th, i 79?,
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providencc, or between Providence
and Boston, a very small TRUNK, cotered
with seal-skin of a reddish colour, with
spots. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Carolina State Notes, and a nf ti,
State of R.hode-lflan«! ; with other papers,which
can only be ferriceable to the proprietor. The
State notes are cheeked at the offices from whence
they issued.. Any person producing the Trunk
(with its contents) to JOHN MARSTON, of
Boston, WILLIAM HALL, of Providence,
Messrs. PATERSON snd BRASHER, New-
York, or Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, shall receive the above reward, or for any
part of the pr«pertv* One Hundred Dollars.
Boston, Nov. 28. eptf.
BOWEN's EXHIBITIONS OF
W ax- Work &Paintings,
ARE open every day and evening (Sondayi
excepted) at the House lately occupied
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eighth-street
First Room—Contains upwards tf 100
elegant Paintings, and about 33 Wax Figure',
in full stature—among which are Lifceneffej
of a number of the principal characters in
America; Baron Trenck in chains, an Indian
Chief, and several beautiful young Ladies
different States, tftc. &c.
__ wI.tXL.
Second Room—Contains eighteen targs
tfVax Figures, which form a Sociable Ciui*
:>r the Oyster Supper j and the School far
Scandal, consisting of twelve female
making their observations on a young La<ty>
who had eloped with a Footman.
Admittance One Quarter of a Dollar each
Room.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG,
Of the very fwft quality, and laicft importat'Oft
from Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
N. B. Afeio tioxci of the above HYSON for file.
[ohn Gould,
HAIR-DRESSER,
JNFORMS his fViends and the public in gene
ral, that he continues to carry onhis bulinefs
as usual, at No. 1, South Third-Street, ae,ar
Market-Street,and thanks his formercuitoroers
for the favors he has received.
Said Gould ha"> for sale, an infaJlibJe cure for
Weak or Sore Eyes, which 911 trial, has
be found to answer the purpose.—He hac it M
vials from one quarter of a dollar to a dollar
Any person trying the above, if not found t«
j answer the character given, the money will e
1 returned. L"J
PLANS
I O F TH E
City of Wafliington,
Sold bv the Booksellers,
DOBSO.V, CAREY, U)UNG, & CJil/KSH4^>
\
i'
BALDWIN DADE.
epzm
-—Vrf