A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 80, of Vol. lII.]
S T A.T E PAPER
United States, January the 16th, 179*
Sir,
AS the circumstances which have engaged the United States
in the present Indian War may some of them be out of the public
recollection, and others perhaps be unknown, 't ni=»y appear ad
vifable that you prepare and publish, from authentic documents,
a ftatenient of rhofe circum(lances, as weH as of the measures which
have been taken, from rime to time, for the re-ellaljlifhinent of.
peace and friendfliip.
When the Communitvare called upon for considerable exerti
ons to relieve a part which is fuffering under the hand 'of an ene~
my, it is desirable to manifeft that due pains have been taken by
-those entrusted with the administration of th'eir affairs to avoid
the evil,
The Secretary for the
Department of War.
The Causes of the exifling Hostilities between the UNITED
STATES, and certain Tribe* of LVD lANS North-Wefl of the 0 HID,
Jlated and explainedfrom ofjicjdland authentic Documents, and pub
lijhed in obedience to the orders of the Pr esidenlp oj the Untted
States.
A RECURRENCE to the Journals of the United States in
in Congrcfs afTembled, of the early stages of the late war,
will evince the public fohcitude to preserve peace with the In
dian tribes, and to prrvent their engaging in a contest in which
thev were no wife interested.
But although partial treaties or conventions were formed with
fomeof the northern and we item tribes, in the years 1775 and
1 776 ; yet those treaties were too feeble to rc/ift the powerful im
oulfes of a contrary nature, arifingfroma combination of ciicum
ifanees at that time ; and accordingly ai! the various Indian nati
ons(the Oneida?;, Tufcaroras, and a few individuals of the Dela
wares excepted) lying on our frontiers, from Geoigia ;o Canada,
armed against us.
It is vet too recent to h3ve been forgotten, that great numbers
«f moffenfive men, women and children, fell a facrsfice to the bar
barous warfare pra&ifed by the Indians, and that many others
were dragged into a deplorable captivity.
Not withstanding that these aggrcflions were entirely unprovok
ed, yet as soon as the war ceased with Great-Britain, the Untied
States, instead of indulging any rcfentments againil the Indian
nations, fought only how to ellablifh a liberal peace with all the
tribes throughout their limits.
Early measures were accordingly taken for this purpose. A
treaty was held, and a peace concluded, in the veer 1784, with
the holt'le part of the notthern Indians, or Six Nations, at Fort-
Stanwix.
In January 1 785, another treaty was formed with part of the
weftera tribes, at Fort M'lntofh, on the Ohio ; to wit, with the
"W vandots, Deiawares, Ottawas,and Chippewas.
During the fame year, treaties were formed at Hopewell, on
the Keowee, with all the powerful tribes of the south, excepting
theCieeks; to wit, the Chcrokees, the Cho&aws, and Chicka
faws.
In January 1786, a treaty was formed with the Shawanefe, at
\he confluence of the Great Miami with the Ohio.
It was not long before certain turbulent and malignant charac
ters, residing among some of the nonhern and Weflcrn tribes,
"which had formed the treaties ot F'>rt. Stanwix and Fort M'ln
tolh, excited uneasiness and complaints againlt those treaties. In
consequence of representations upon this fubjett, 00 the sth of
October, 1787, Congress directed, " That a general treaty thould
be held with the tribes ot Indians within the limits of the United
States, inhabiting the country north-well of the Ohio and about
Ldkc Erie, as soon after the full ot April next as conveniently
iritght be,and at such place and at such paiiicular time as the
Governor of the Wettern Territory (hould appoint, for the pur
pofrs of knowing the causes oftineaiinefs among the said tiibes,
and hearing their Complaints ; of regalattng trade, and amicably
fettling all affairs concerning lar»<ls an,d boundaries between them
and the United States."
41 P° l^e econ d day of JuH, 1788, Congrsfs appropriated !< t!ie
um of twenty thoufai.d dollars, in itldition to fourteen thou
dollars before appropriated, for defraying theexpenc?s of
the treaties which have be 11 ordered, or which be or
dered to be held in the then present year with the federal Indi
an tr:bts in the Noithern Department, and for cxtinguiihiog
the Indian claims ; rhewholeot the laid twenty thouimd dol
lars, together with fix thouland dollars ot the fyid fourteen
thousand dollars, to be applied foltlv 10 the purp;»fe of cxtin
gu'fhmg Indian claims to the lands they have already ceded
to the United States, by obtaining regular conveyances for the
lame, and toi extending a purchase beyond the limits hereto-
tore fixed bv treaty ; but that no part of the said sums Ihouid
be applied tor any other purpose other than those above men
** tioned."
Accordingly new treaties were held at Fort Harmar the latter
part of the year 1788, and concluded on the ninth dav of January,
*789, with a representation of all the Six or Northern Nations, the
1 o hawks excepted—and with a representation of the following
enhes, to wit. the Wyandots, the D,' Wares, Octawas, Chvppa
aa, Pdttiwatamas, and Sacs.—By these treaties, nearly the lame
oan aries wrp recognized and eftabliflied bv a principle of bur
c ' tje, as had been stipulated bv the former treaties of Fort Stan
w.xand Fort M 4 Intofh.
j u* careful and attentive- was the Government 6f the United
fates to Settle a boundary with the Indians on the basis of fair
, too >viate the diffnisfaftiorrs which had been excited, and
equitable * 5 ' anc^s r llxcd on the principle ot
It:docs not.appear that the <ight of the Northern and Wcftern
Ia Wn u° orrnct^*^. e before mentioned treaties to the
1 ! lcre y relmquiflird to the United States, has been quefti
y an\ other tribes; nor does it appear that the ptefent wdr
T C r f,hyanvdlf P' IIC relatively to the boundaries
tiiabhfhtd by the laid treaties.
Ut .^ ie . con J TS * rv it appears, that the unnrnvok'-d
e . iami an 1 Waba h Indians upon Kentucky and other
pans ot the tronlicrc, together with their alfociates, a banduu,
G. WASHINGTON.
Wednesday, February i, 175? 2.
formed of Shawanefe, and nufcaft Cherokee*, amounting in all to
about one thousand two hundred men, arc solely ihe causes of the
war. Hencc it is proper that their condutt (h'ould be more parti
cularly adverted to
In the year j7B j, when medages were frnt to the Wyandot*
and Delaware*, inviting them to meet the Commiflioners, firit at
Cavahoga, and afterwards at Fort M'lntofh, their neighbours the
Miami Indians were also included in the fame invitation ; but they
d d not attend.
Iri the vear 1785 these invitations were repeated ; but the mefTen
gers noon th-ir arrival at vhe Miami village, had their horses itol
en, were other wife treated with insolence, and prevented fulfilling
their mijfion.
In the years 1787 and 1788, new endeavours were used to bring
those Indians to neat : were urged 10 be present at a treaty
appointed to be held at FortHarmar ; but these endeavors proved
as fruitlefs as all ihe former.
" At a council ol the tribes, convened in 1788, at the Miami
river, the Miami and Wab-ash Indians were press d to repair to
the treaty with great earnetlnefsbv the chiefs of the Wyandots and
Delawares : the Wyandot chiefs in particular presented them with
<t large belt of wampum, holding one end ot :t themselves, and
offering the other tothehoUile Indians, which wasrefufed. The
Wyandots tt»e-n laid it on the (bouldersof a principal chie'f,recom
mending to him to be at peace with the Americans ; but without
making any answer, he leaned himfelf and let it fail to the ground :
this so difpleated the Wyandots, that they immediately left the
council house."
In the mean time the frontier settlements were disquieted by
frequent depredations and murders, and (he complaints of their
inhabitants, (as -might be expected) ot tbe pacific forbearance of
the government, were loud, repraicd, and diflrelling---their calls
for protection mediant—till at length they appeared determihed
by their own efforts to endeavor to retaliate the injuries they were
continually receiving, and which had become intolerable.
In thi* (lateof things it was for the Government
to make some decifivcexertion for the peace and fecuriiy of the
frontiers.
But notwithstanding the ill fucce r s of former experiments, and
the invincible spirit ot animosity which had appeared in certain
tribes, and which was of a nature to juljtify a perfuafiou that 110
impreflion,could be made upon them by pacific expedients, it
was still deemed advifeable to make one moreeflTiy.
Accordingly in April 1790, Anthony Gamelin, an inhabitant
of Port Vinecnnes, and a man of good chara&er, was dispatched
to all the tribes and villages of the Wabafh river, and to the In
dians of the Miami village, with a meflage purporting, that the
United States w< re desirous of eft-:ibliftiin~ a general peace with
all the neighboring tribes of Indians, and of treating them in all
rcfpe&s with perkft humanity and kindnefs,and at the fame time
wani.ng them to abitain from further depredations.
The Indians in some of the villages on the lower part of the
Wabafh, appeared to Mien to him, others manifeflcd a different
disposition, otheis confrlTed their inability to reft rain their young
warriors, arid all referred the meiTenger to the Indians at rhc
M 1 ami village. At that village some appeared well aifpofed, but
rhe chiefs of the Sha wanefe returnee the mefTagcs and belts, in
forming the raeflfenger however, that they would, alter confuta
tion, within thirty nights, fend an answer to Pail-Vincennes—
The promised answer was never received. While the mefiiVnger
was at the Miami village, two negroes were brought in from our
settlements, prisoners ; and upon his return to L'Anguille, a
chief informed him that a party of seventy warriors, from the
more diflant Indians, had airived, and were gone againlt the set
tlements.
In three days after his departure from the Miami village, a pri
soner was there burnt to death. Similar cruelties were cxerciied
at the Ouittanon towns, about the fame time ; and in the course
of the three months immediately alter the last .mentioned invita
tion, upwards of one hundred persons were killed, wounded,
and taken pri Toilers upon the Ohio, and in thediftnft of Ken
tucky.
It is to he remarked, that previous to the last invitation, the
people ot Kentucky who, in confi-quence of their injuries, were
meditating a blow against the hostile Indians fas before intimated)
were restrained by the Prcfident of the United States, from cr-of
imp the Ohio, until the effe6t of the friendly overture intended
to be inade should be known.
It is also to be observed, that the Wyandots and Delawares,
after having frequently and fruitlessly endeavored to influence the
Miami and Wabash Indians to peace; upon mature convic
tion finally declared that force only could etfe'ft the object.
As an evidence that the cond u£l of the hostile Indians has been
occaTioiv d by 01 her motives than a claim relatively to bounda
ries— it is 'o be observed, that their depredations have been prin
cipally upou the diftriffc of Kentucky, and the counties of Virgi
nia, lying along the fouih fide of the Ohio, a country to whicti
they have no claim.
It appears by evident, that from the year 1783.
until the inor.'h of October, 1790, the time the United SVaicS
commenced oftenfive operations against the said Indians, that on
the Onio, and the frontieis on the foutb (Id' thereof, they killed,
wounded and took prisoners, about one thousand five hundred
men, women and children; besides carrying off upv- aids of two
thousand horses, and other property to the amount of fifty thou
fend dollars.
The particulars of the barbarities exercised upon many of their
pri Toners, of different ages and sexes, although supported by in
disputable evidence, are v of too (hoCkiiYg a nuture to be presented
to the public. It is futficient upon this head to observe, that the
tomahawk and Icalping-knife have been the ihildeft instrument*
of death. That in some cases torture by fire, and other execra
ble means have been used.
But the outrages which were committed upon the frontier in
habitants were not the only injuries that were fufbined : repeated
attacks upon detachments of the troops of the United States were,
at different times, made. The following from its peculiar enor
mity deserves recital. —In April, 1790, Major Doughty was or
dered to the friendly C'mckafaws on public bulinefs. He per
formed this duty in a boat, having with him Eniigri Sedam, and
a party of fifteen men. White attending the Teneflee river, he
was met by a party of forty Indians in four canoes, confiding
principally of the aforefaid banditti of Shawanef*, and outcaik
Cherokees. They aoptoached under a white flag, the well known
emblem of peace. They came on board the Major's boat, re
ceived his presents, continued with him nearly one hour, and
then departed in the moll friendly manner. But, they had scarce-
Iv cleared his oars, before they poured in a fire upon his crew,
which was returned as soon as oircu«ullances wuuld permit, and
317
$&tso
[Whole No. 288.]
a unequal combat was sustained for feveial hours, when
they abandoned their defton, but not until they had killed and
wounded eleven out of fifteen of the boat's crew. This perfidi
ous condufl, in any age, would have demanded exemplary pun*
illiment. 1 v
All overtures of peace failing, and the depredations still con
tinuing, an attempt at coercion became indifpenfible. Accord,
ingly the expedition under Brigadier General Harrnar, in the
month of October, 1.790, was dircfted. The event is known.
After this expedition theGovernpr of the Western Territory,
in order that nothing might be omitted, to effect a peace without
further conflitf, did, on his arrival at Fort Harmar, in December,
179?, lend through the Wyandots and Delaware* conciliatory
met! ages to the Miami's, but still without etfed.
The Cornplanter, a war chief ot the Senekas and other Indians
of the fame tribe, being in Philadelphia in the monih of Febru
ry, 179: , were engaged to undertake to impress the hostile In
dians with the conferences of their persisting in hoftiluies, and
alio of the justice and moderation of the United States.
In pursuance of this Procter, on the fourteenth of
March, was feat to the Cornplanter to hasten his departure, and
to accompany him to the Miami village — .\nd messages were sent
to the Indians declaratory of the pacific sentiments of the United
Siates towards them. But both Col. Proper and the Cornplanter,
although zealouily desirous of executing their mifliori, cncouu
tered difficulties of a particular nature, which weie insurmounta
ble, and prevented the execution of their orders.
General St. Clair, in the month o! April, Cent medals
from Fort Harmar 10 the Dela wares, expressive of the pacific dt
figns of the United States, to all tbe Indian tribes/
A treaty was held at the Painttd-Poil by Col. Pickering, in
Jane, 1791, with a part of the Six Nations, at which the humane
• intentions of the General Government towards them particularly,
and the Indian tribes generally, were fulta explaihed.
Captain Hendricks, a refpedable Indian refidmg with tbe
Oneidas, appearing zealously dilpofed to attempt convincing the
hoftil Indians ot th■ ir milfaken conduit, was accordingly sent
for that purpose, but was fruftiated by unforefecn obstacles, in
his laudable attempt's.
Ihe different measures which have been recited must evince,
that notwuhftanding the highly culpable condutt of the Indians
in question, the government of the United States, uninfluenced by
relentment, or any fa lie principles which might arise from a con
sciousness of superiority, adopted eveiv proper expedieni to ter
minate the Indian hMtiluies, without having tecourfe to the last
extremity ; and, after being compelled to reUrt to it, has still
kept steadily in view the rc-eftablilhment of peace as its primaiv
and sole object.
Were it neceffaty to add proofs of the pacific and humane dis
positions of Ihe General Government towards the Indian tribes,
the treaties with the Creeks, and with the Cherokees, be
cued as demonflrative of its moderation and liberality.
The present partial Indian wai is a remnant of the late general
war, continued by a numb r of ftparate banditti, who, by the
inct'fTant pra£lice of fifteen years; seem to have formed inveterate
and incurable habits of enmity against the frontier inhabitants of
the United States.
To obtain protection against laWlefj violence, was a main ob
jefil for which the present government was iiiftunted. It ii, ii»-
a main objefi ot all governments. A frontier citizen pof
feflcsas strong clairmui prote&ion as any other citizen. The
frorticrsare the vulnerable parts 6f every Crtuirtry ; and the obli
gation of the government of the United States, to afford thd- it
quifite prote&ion, cannot be lels sacred in reference to tlic in
habitantsof their Wellern, than to those of ffieif Atlantic "Frpn
tier. T.
It will appear from a candid review of this filbjeft, .that the
General Government could 110 longer abstain from attempting to
pumlh the hostile Indians.
Theill fucceis ol the attempts for this purpose, is entirely un
connected with the justice or policy of the hieafure. A penfe
verance in exertions to make the refraSory Indians at laftleftflbfe,
that they cannot continue their enormous outrages with impunity,
-appears to be as in the existing poflure of things,
it will be advifeabie, whenever they shall manifeit symptoms
more amicable difpofitidn, to convince them, by decilive g>roofs,
that nothing is so much desired by the United States as to life at
liberty to treat thein with kindness and beneficence. f-
War Department, Jan. 26, 1792
FROM THE QUEBEC HERALD,
0,0 E B EC, November aB.
Extrafl from the Chief Juflice's charge 10 the Grand
Jury, 2Jth Nov. 1791. SeJJions of Oyer and Ter
miner at Quckec.
1 REMARK it with pleasure, that for two
years palt, there has been a great redutfiion of
the lift ef criminal prosecutions in all parts of
the province. If Grand Juries have not been in
fault, we may presume that the virtue of our fel
low citizens is on the increase. It adds to the
confolaiion, that it does no: seem to be imputa
ble merely to terror, the government of the coun
try for the last five years, having mingled mercy
and judgment very frequently ; but with so sa
gacious a discernment, that the great clemency
dispensed, may perhaps be reckoned among the
causes of these restraints upon vice.
Happier still, if the reformation of our coun
try, shall keep pace with the blelfings recently
poured out upon ir, by the benignity of our So
vereign, and the liberality of his Parliament.
What their number and extent, the molt fer
tile and hell informed mind, can neither enume
rate nor ascertain, faffice it to remark, that the
political frame erecfied for your prosperity, be
ing 011 the model, as nearly as our condition will
permit, of that conltitntion which has made En
gland t4re admiration of the world, it niuft be
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj War.left to ages to measure the value of the benefits
conferred by the late change and reforms.
How flattering to Canadians of all ranks, that
this corner of the empire becomes the firft of any
of its remote appendages, upon that envied foun
dation ! —that rare ltruifture of human policy ;
which adverting to the natural, inevitable, and
providential distribution of mankind into Rich
and Poor, wit h qualities appropriate to their con
dition, and of adverfi bia{fej, restrains the spirit
and vices incident to each class, and creates a
controul upon both, by the elevation of a third
order , which in its own turn is corrected by the
other two ; and all singly or conjointly operate
the welfare of the whole.
The Angularity fuggelted, will doubtJefs form
an ingredient, among the incitements to the ge
neral gratitude las the country, for so honorable
a pre-eminence over the reft of the provinces ;
(I trust) it will be molt sensibly felt by ihe devout
Canadian, whose recolletftion of the hard condi
tion of these neglected branches of the domini
on of France will admire and adore, that myste
rious providence, by which the separation of
Canada from that kingdom, became the way of
her escape, from the miseries to which France
(as we can now fee) was then destined, and that
theconqueft so mach dreaded herefrom the long
continued enmity of the rival provinces in her
vicinity, by drawing this country into a connec
tion with a brave and generous nation, which
has been the means of accelerating the advance
ment of the Canadian French to that degree of
felicity and security, which neither the provinc
es lately Briiifh, nor the European French, who
put every thing at risk for it, as yet have acquir
ed, and which England free as her spirit is, ne
ver gave to the colonies planted by her own hand.
According to the form of the New Conftituti
on, as pa fled into an Adt by the Parliament of
Great Britain and fan&ioned by the King, the
number of members of the legislative councils is
limited as follows : Seven for Upper Canada,
and fifteen for Lower Canada, the legislative
councillor's heirs to succeed in totation, if wor
thy. The number of members to compose the
lioufes of aflembly in the two provinces, are 16
for Upper Canada, and 50 for Lower Canada,the
province to be divided by proclamation. Voters
eligible who have rented a house of iol. per an
num one year. The proclamation with refpec?t
to the division of the province, to be prior to the
ill of January, 1792. The executive councils
are likewise to call the legislative councils and
houses of aflembly before the expiration of the
said year 1 792.
The Bishop of Nova-Scocia governs the Cler
gy in these provinces, who are to be allowed as
tythes one seventh of all grants of lands.
Among others the following Toaps were given at the
principal entertainment in the celebration of the
Coihmencement of the New Cunflilutton uj Canada,
December 26.
THE KING, by found of trumpet, flourifh with
rhree times three cheers,and God save the King.
New Constitution, do. Rule Brirannia.
The glorious Revolution of 1688.
The Queen and Royal Family.
The Governor General of British America.
The Lieut. Governor General Clarke, and the
Province.
Lieut. Governor Simcoe, iand the Province of
Upper Canada.
The Peers and Commons of Great Britain who
maintained the cause of the People of this
Province and supported their petition.
The friends of Freedom who meet to celebrate
this day.
May the New Constitution (peak the will and
promote the happiness of the people.
The Liberty of the Press and n.ay freedom be
guided by wisdom and decorum.
Tiial by Jury—and may the right of Jurymen to
protect the innocent, remain for ever inviolable.
May the Britifti Nation be ever united with all
free Nations, to promote the Liberty and Hap
piness of all mankind.
May all the inhabitants of Canada be grateful to
Great-Britain.
May all civil diftiniftions among men be founded
on public utility.
May the feelings which have produced this hap
py meeting find their way into the hearts of
the rising generation.
Peace on earth and good will towards all men.
The Constitution of Great Britain drank with
three cheers
The French Revolution, and true liberty to the
wbole world.
May the Agriculture of this province procure us
an ample supply of good wines.
Liberty of Conscience drank with three cheers.
. The abolition of the Feudal Syttein.
May Agriculture cause Commerce to flourish and
Commerce sustain Agriculture.
May the fire of Liberty extend itfelf to the frozen
climate of Hudson's Bay.
IC?" Health and Ready Money.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, January 6, 1791-
The Memorial of John Churchman, presented a few
days finee, was taken into co/ifideration. —It was
moved by
MR. PAGE, that the memorial should be re
fered to a feletft committee.
Mr. Williamfon objetfted to the reference—he
remarked generally that the fubjecfi had already
been before Congress, and had consumed much
time. In the Senate, he understood, it had not
received any great attention. With ref'peift to
the prosperous Hate of the finances, on which the
petitioner appears to found his hopes, he would
not pretend to determine the state of the Trea
sury ; but if it was full, and flowing, he conceiv
ed there were other expeditions which would
call for all the money we had to i'pare.
Mr. Page moved to refer the memorial to the
conlideration of a feledt committee—he hoped
there would be no opposition to this motion, as
the ingenuity of the memorialist, and the impor
tance of the objects he had in view, entitled him
to the attention of the house. He (aid lie had
prelented the memorial to the house last week,
at the defile of the memorialist, and had moved
that it fhou|d lie on the table for the confidera
lion of members; that one objecfl of the memo
rialist could not so well be stated to the house as
to a committee, where numbers of his papers and
calculations might be examined ; that if he should
attempt to do Mr. Churchman justice in the house,
he might be charged with affetftation, or he might
Hot be heard, or if heard, he might not be fuffi
ciently undcrftood—he therefore hoped that the
memorial might be refered to a feletft commit
tee.--In reply to Mr. Williamfon, he was sorry
to find that a gentleman, whose name flood on
the lift of philosophers, instead of aiding him in
countenancing a philosophical enquiry, should
oppole even his motion that the house would re
fer it to the consideration of a felecft committee.
He had not presumed to fay that there was mo
ney in the Treasury to be (pared for such purpo
ses— or that even-is we had money, that we had
a right to give it to Mr. Churchman, if he should
prove the truth of his theory ; nor had he, Mr.
Page, laid that Mr. Churchman would find the
magnetic pole—lie had only affirmed that Mr.
Churchman s ingenuity, which was acknowledg
ed by many competent judges, and the import
ance of the objetffs he had in view (one of which
the member himfelf confefled deserved attention,
and the other was confefled by several philoso
phers and learned societies in Europe) deserved
the attention of the house. Sir, added Mr. Pacre,
I affirm, since 1 am thus compelled tofupport my
motion, that Mr. Churchman's theory, whether
he shall be able to find by his proposed voyage
the magnetic pole or nor, is a proof of his inge
nuity, and is preferable to that of the great Hal
,ey- The latter supposed four magnetic poles,
and that they resided within the bowels of the
earth ; the former supposes but two, and that one
of them is ill the neighbourhood of one of the
United States, and within the reach of the fifh
ing voyages of another. Since Dr. Halley's the
ory has been exploded which did not long account
tor the variation of variation, as it is called, and
which he explained by an hy'pothefis w'hich has
been called extravagant, as it supposed theearth
a hollow (hell, with a nucleus within, revolving
freely and carrying round it the four points
which he supposed attracted the magnetic needle,
and gave it its direction ; no theory, except Mr!
Churchman's, has been offered to the world which
solves so many phenomena of the variation of the
needle, and bids fair to be of real use. 1 assisted
(by the invitation of one of the committee of the
Congress at New-York, to whom Mr. Church
man's memorial was refered) in the examination
of his theory > elpedting the finding the longitude
of any place whose latitude is known, and where*
the variation is known, and I did put it to the
test ,n this manner I gave Cook's voyages to one
of the committee, and desired him to tell me the
latitude of any place and the variation found
<here, and 1 calculated what the longitude ought
to be according to the theory, and conftan.lv
found u to be nearly that stated in the voyaoe*-
the committee compared Mr. Churchman's caten
ations o the longitude which they demanded of
htm with that given by Cooke, and found a won
derfu agreement ; and I have since seen many
of Mr. Churchman's companions of this fort
which agree with observations so nearly, as in
jnftify my assertion that the theory {hews the in-
318
genuity of Mr. Churchman ; and I will add ti,
although it may not l,e generally appl ied tQ ' fi J
nig the longitude because of the fmalluefsof"a
nation in some places, and other circuinltance?'
yet it may be used in many pi if the truth *f
theo, y be once eltablifhed ; and whateve
can contribute to the discovery of longitude a
sea, Mil be worthy os-encouragement • I*
granting,hat the variation of the needle could
not be applied to the discovery of the longitude
at lea, yet_ an easy and certain method of ffndino
the variation is a most desirable iliing and f
great conference to geography, navi g a tio „ an ° c
ftirveymg; and it Mr. Churchman's theory be
true, not only the variation, but the alteration of
that variation will be found by an easy calcnla
t.on at any place whose longitude and latitude'
is known, and tor any given time; and he puts
the truth of his theory to the test, whirl, few
theories have been willing; to do, of a single ex
permient, a voyage to Baffin's Bay. The United
States need not be ashamed to encourage the me
morialift: the British Parliament encouraged
voyages to ascertain the truth of Halley's theory
and, if I nnftake nor, when that was abandoned'
it was supposed that the poles of the earth infl,,'
enced the needle ; the Parliament offered 20 00c!.
to any one who would go to the north pole and
at the expence of their go/vernment, the attempt
has been made. But Mr. Churchman only re
quires that a voyage be made within 14 degrees
of that pole—and all I have allied is, that his me
morial be refered to a committee to examine his
theory, his calculations and vouchers, refpetTtinw
the probability of its truth, and the reasonable*
nefSjOt his petition. If the committee fliould
think his theory worthy of the experiment, lie
proposes to eftablilh its truth; and this h'oufe
lheuld not think Congress authorised to grant
money for that purpose ; they may recommend
Mr. Churchman and his theory to the patronage
of the legislatures of the filler dates, whose au
thority and ability to enable the memorialist (0
prosecute his enquiries cannot be doubted any
more than their readiness to lirten to a recom
mendation so worthy of Congress. On the other
hand, fliould the committee be of opinion that
Mr. Churchman's is a mad projection, and that
his petition ought to be rejected, let the house,
it fatisfied with their report, confirm it by their
unanimous vote—Where then is the danger of
refering the memorial to the confederation of a
committee? But if the house reject the mor'an
for a reference, and the ingenious memorialist
be obliged to apply to foreign countries, whose
learned societies have already applauded his the
ory, and fliould there meet-with encouragement,
and be enabled to establish its truth, may we 110 c
be in danger of incurring the censure of the li
beral and enlightened world ?
Mr. Clark made some observations on the fub
je<ft. He said that the variation of the needle
was already fufficiently understood by all land
lurveyors, otherwise they were not fit fsr their
business; and with regard to any discoveries by
sea, he had little hopes from them, after all the
frnitlefs attempts which have been made by the
ablell navigators and philofophei s of Europe.
Mr. Seney said that there was ,a degree of at
tention due to all applications from men of ge
nius, and as Mr. Churchman's memorial comes
supported by many refpetftable vouchers, it ought
certainly to be refered to a committee:—if
Congress fliould not deem it proper to give him
the aid he requires at present, perhaps it may be
recommended to the next house, to affoid him
encouragement.
Mr. Williamlon faicl it was the very'fatrte pe
tition which had been before Congress the la It
leffion, when there were only three or four mem
bers who appeared to support ir.
Mr. I'age laid it was not out of order to recon
sider the fubjecft—and to condemn it ra/hly, with
out a proper inveftigaNon, would be to render
Congress ridiculous in the eyes of the world.
Mr. Murray hoped the houie would appoint a
committee—he was not in Congress when this
Subject was before decided against. This was a
queflion 011 which lie was incompetent to decide,
but he could feel fufficiently for the literary re
putation of the houle, and the great interest ot
science, to believe, that to commit the bulinefs to
a committee, would belt comport with the dig
nity of the subject. Something more than was
then submitted to the wisdom of Congress, is now
brought forward—at lead Mr. Churchman foal
ledges. Let those gentlemen who wilh to have
an opportunity ot gratifying a laudable curiosity,
he indulged— When a man of science conies here
with luppofed discoveries in the active sciences,
we owe it to the fubjeift, to ourlelves, and to hu
man nature, togive his propositions fair play and
mature consideration. We can not do this with
out a reference to a committee. Weoughtto be
cantiotis how we haflily decide 011 the views and
experiments of philosophical applicants, and
ought to take warning from the disgrace of other
nations whom history has held up for their pre
mature rejection of enterprises and schemes ot
science. Columbus, him 'elf, Columbus, to w ho" 1
we owe our country, trjvelled about a philofophical vagabond through many courts of Europe,
and met with patronage at 1a It out of his own
country. There may be nothing solid in this
projectedicheme > butlet gentlemen be indulged —
it will be most decent.
The question for refering being taken, it was
carried in the affirmative by a large majority, and
a feleA committee appointed, viz. Meilis. Page,
Wadfworth and Wayne.
MONDAY, Januaky 30.
The Speaker laid before the House a letter froni
the Secretary of War, with copies ot the commu
nications which have taken place between uie
Supreme Executive of the Common wealth ot
Pennsylvania, and that officer, relative to the
railing of troops within and under the him.hoi )ty
offaid Commonwealth —communicated by com
mand of the President of the United States, pur
suant to a request of the Honfe on the 25th inft.
A mefl'rige was received from the Senate by
their Secetary, with the bill to eflablifh the Poll-
Office r>r. . I\>ft-Koads within the United' States—
pafled ill-: ' cuatc with amendments, in which
th»v "q', I*. :h- 1"011 s"ms'vcnce of the House.
Th it fceine, 1 jd she Order of the Day was
calle' for, on ■: making efFeiftual provision
for N,e defence thr frontiers—and the House
coir
went int.
the galleries were ared
TUSEDAY, January 31
A report from the Secretary of War, on peti
tions of fandry f'eamen of the late navy of the
United States, was read—this report Hates that
the several petitioners were neceflarily absent
from their country at the time prescribed by law
for receiving the balances due to them refpec
lively, for their services—and fuggefis rhe pro
priety of repealing, or suspending so much q/
the limitation ordinance, as precludes their re
ceiving said balances—laid on the table.
Sundry petitions, praying for compensations,
pensions, settlement of accounts, renewal of 101 l
certificates of public debt, &c. were read, and re
ferred to the heads of departments.
The Order of the Day was called for, on the
bill making effectual provision for the defence of
the Frontiers—and the House went into a com
mittee of the whole—on whichchegalleries were
cleared
By the minutes of the proceedings of yefler
day,-read in the House this day, it appears that
the motion for linking our the 2d feiftion, which
provides for three additional regiments, was ne
gatived— 33 —to 18.
PARIS, October 21
It is remarkable, that in the various tumults
■•that have been excited among the populace on
account of the protestants being allowed to preach
their doiftrines without hindrance, women have
been the sole atftors ; and on several occafioua
have gone tofuch mischievous lengths, that even
the luweft vulgar among the men, have volunta
rily assisted the city guards in reducing these
priest-ridden viragos to reason. This ungovern
able temper in our women, is not difficult to be
accounted for. In times past it has been the po
licy of tiie teaching clergy, always to fine
of the miltrefs of the family. No pains having
been previously spared to make them sincere con
verts to the teueis of bigotry» and fanaticifm, Lite
men, of consequence, became an easy prey, and
were not so much attended to. The principles
of intolerance having by these means taken fivch
deep root in the minds of the lower class of our,
females, 110 wonder that the laws of equity and
ju(Hte find it difficult to infpiie thein with a to
lerating (pirit in matters of religion.
B O S T O N, January 19.
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHUSETTS,
JAN U'A R y 16,
Dr. Jarvis, Mr. Tudor, Dr. Euflfs, Mr. Breck,
and Mr. Wedgery, were appointed a committee
to consider the fubjetft of the balance fnppofed to
be due from the United States to this Common
wealth, and the expediency of reinonftrating to
Congrels on the (abject thereof, and report.
January 17.
A committee, consisting of Messrs. Johnson,
Tyler, Taylor, Fifk, and Nichols, was chosen
to report the moil eligible method for the sup
port of teachers of piety, religion and morality
within this Commonwealth, and how to deter
lnine the proper members in each lociety charge
able with such support.
FF. Ivl aL K HEROISM
A very extraordinary circninftance arretted
the attention of the House this afternoon. A
petition was presented by a Mrs. Deborah Gan
nett, who served with reputation, as a foklier,
three years in the army of the United States, and
received an honorable discharge therefrom.
This extraordinary woman inlifted as a male, by
the name of Robert ShirtlifF; and as such did
her duty without a stain on her virtue or honor.
She only prays, in her petition, for the pay
ment of her arrears ; but tubmits the circum
of the whole—on which
fiances of her fcrvices to the confidefation of
the Legislature : And from the feelings which
appeared 011 the occasion, cxpMTive of a itrong
desire tu reward heroism like hers, there is 110
room to doubt that a compensation will be grant
ed, adequate to ner lervices, and honorable to
the government.
Several members corroborated the facfts Hated
in the petition ; which was committed to a re-
Ipeifiahle committee.
A representation from the committee for the
sale of Euftern Lands, was read, in which it was
itated, that there have been fold since the 1 alt
-itting < t the General Court, about 2,100.000
acres of those lands, and that there are further
applications for upwards of 2,000,000 acres more
ot that valuable and fertile country.
THEATRE
Mr. Tudor called the attention of rhe house to
the fubjec r t of a repeal of the law prohibiting The
atrical Exhibitions. After dating the reasons which
induced him thus early to life, he read the law
above mentioned ; and moved that a committee
be appointed to consider the expediency of bring
ing in a bill for the repeal of it.
The fubjetft was then committed to Meflrs. Gar
diner, Greenleaf, Hichborn, Bowers, Klagg,
Wafhburn, and Kinfley, to consider and report
thereon.
January 18.
A remonstrance from a number of the inhabi
tants of the town of Boilon, against the repeal of
the law to prevent Stage Flays, &c.—Read and
committed to the committee on that fubjedi.
The bill eflablifhing the Bolton Tontine AfTo
ciatioti, was read the firft time, and Wednesday
next assigned for its second reading.
PORTLAND, Jan. 9.
In the account brought by Captain Clap, from
Port-au-Prince, and lately published in this paper,
mention was made of the murder of the Ne®ro
and Mulatto women and children who were found
in that town the day after the fire.—Capt. Clap
has linee, however, declared that he was not
knowing to the mall'acre of the children.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
Some modem European Phitofopher has fumijhed the
American Papers with a comparative Sketch of the
Civilized Man and the Savage—will you pleaje
to publijh, as a counterpart
TUT, SAVAGE AND THE CIVILIZED MAN.
Savage rises in the morning, and prowls
-0- through the sorest for food—if he finds it,
he returns loaded to his wife, who cooks it for
him ; her portion is, what he may leave of the
hasty repalt : if he is unfuccefsfu) in hunting, he
takes in an additional hole in his girdle, and his
family pines in want.
The civilized Man gets up with the sun—pur
sues his daily occupation—and the sure profpeel
of a reward to his industry, lightens the burthens
of life—while the arts of civilization afford a per
petual security against hunger, nakedness and
cold.
The Savage has a precarious support—nature,
it is true, provides the crystal dream, and his
i>ow may flop the deer in its course—but the
Itream is often remote, and the track of the ar
row is frequently untrue.
The civilized Man may flruggle with misfor
tunes ; but he has a never-failing resource in the
benevolence of society.
The inhabitant of the woods hasbut few ideas,
and few pleafuies—thefe are of the ardent kind,
and their acquifiiion often interferes with those
of his fellow Savages—the consequences are fatal.
The civilized Man has a bpundlefs circle of
enjoyments—his views are expanded, his ideas
unlimited ; his hopes are excited by innumerable
objeifts, and gratified ten thousand different ways.
The legal rettrainis on his pleasures, appetites
and pailions, enlarge the sphere of his felicity.
The Savage, disengaged from the chace, or
war, leads a life of stupid infenfibility—cnere
can scarcely be said to be any progress, or fuc
celfion of events, in his exiltence—'tis one per
perual nvw.
The civilized Man lives in himfelf—in his chil
dren— in the public ; —and as he participates in
the labors, he enjoys the happiness of his coun
try and of mankind.
" The Savage feels no anxiety for the future
welfare of his family, however numerous it may
he"—he propagates his kind like the wolf of the
defart, and his offspring are abandoned to a way
ward fate. The cares, the solicitudes, the anti
cipations and pleasures of life, are equally un
known to him.
The civilized Man has liis cultivated faculiies
con.inually employed to promote the happiness
of his family—every addition to it is a new pledge
of future enjoyment.—He feels the protection of
civil government, and contributes
to its fapport—protedled in his acquifiiious by
law, he cofttemplatesthe tranfmiflijn of his name,
his inheritance, his rights and privileges, to his
polteriiy, with unspeakable pleasure.
319
The Savage has no abiding place—his only de
fence from the inclemency of the Ikies, is in his
cafe-hardened carcase.
The civilized Man, wifely calculating for the
future contingencies of the seasons, in the
retreat reared by the joint labors of affiliated
industry, << smiles at the tempest, and enjoys the
norm."
The Savage, while young, feels, and glories in
the v,g our 0 f hi s nerves ; like the young colt, he
fnuffs the wind, and braves the teinpelt—— hue
mark his declining years—Time very early (cars
his visage. and the hanging down-drawn 'lip „f
the aged Savage, fully evinces that iiis lajl are
not his bej] days.
The civilized Man preserves, by temperance
the vigor of youth, till an advanced period—his
declining years are crowned with refpeft and ve
neration—and his J alt repose is in the arms of
filial affetftion.
Philadelphia, February i.
iJotflor Wi hard, Pfelident of Cambridge Uni
versity, Mad. has lately been elefled one of the
honorary Members of the London Midical Society.
We are informed that a committee of the Ma
nufacturing Society are to meet to view the Ra
ritati on the 20th of February next—and tiiac
Nehemiah Hubbard, Esq. of is ap.
pointed fuperintendant-general, with a salary of
two thousand dollars a year.
We are farther informed, that the society ex
perts from Lyons in France, early in the spring,
a company of manufacturers for the Ribbon and
Wire department.
A correspondent has observed that some accounts
from Quebec papers, via England, recently pub
lished in the papers of the United States, inform,
that Lord Dorchester did not leave the Govern
ment of Canada with-the unanimous approbation
of the citizens of Quebec. It is but justice to fay
that those Quebec papers contained counter pub
lications, highly approving of his adtniniftration,
signed by numerous bodies of citizens of allranks
and profeffions, French and Enghfh.
Extral7 of a letter from Bcflon
" I wilh to be informed what the probable in
tentions of Government are.—Some of our Six
per Centers, &c. and the 1 uke-warm friends to
the Government of the Union, are oppofedl to a
further prosecution of the war—but difinterefled
men, and our old soldiers and officers, will exe
crate the Government, if it fuffers the Frontiers
to be deserted, and our citizens exposed to the
fury of the bipeds of the wilderness."
The English cf a certain letter, said to have
been written in Quebec, if it has any meaning,
fays a correspondent, is this :—
" The Indians are affronted, and ifyoudonot
buy a peace of them on any terms, they will,
next spring, perhaps this winter, bripg an army
of twenty thoafand men into the field, andfweep
all the settlements on the Frontiers, from the
Miffifippi to Lake Champlain.—You cannot kill
more than two in an hundred of ihem—whereas
they are sure to kill eighty in an hundred of you :
These circumstances are so fully known to them,
that though they have heretofore refufed to make
peace with yon, yet at the moment they are
slushed with vidlory, and glutted with plunder,
you will find it the molt favorable time to nego
ciate a treaty !" v
The United States have made no encroach
ments on the lands of the Indians, and yet they
are charged by letter-fabricators with beingguilty
of acfts of greater injustice than ever were perpe
trated towards the savages by any ot the Euro
pean powers who have ever attempted to make
settlements on this continent. Thefpringof ma
ny remarks of the above complexion, is an inve
terate hatred to the government and honor of
the United States.
The primary object in the institution of civil government, is the
security of Liberty—but it is as unfortunate, as it is true, that the
reverse idea has been all along inculcated upon mankind. The
vital principle of a free government is an equal representation—
This is the fountain, which if kept pure, will water the Tree of
Liberty, and make it immortal—This fountain inuft be preserved
from contamination by the virtue and vigilance of the people in
their ele&ions—and in this way alone, they can hope to perpetu
ate their freedom—for all other modes of feekmg redress of public
grievances, under a free government, has uniformly ended in mak
ing bad, zvorje.
Died—Mrs. Henrietta Hillegas, wife of Michael Hil
legds, Esq. t
Mr. Peter Markoe—author of several publications in prose
and verse.
(£3" The 44 Narrative'' contains fomc personalities, which
render it incompatible with the plan of this publication.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 25/6 pr./
3 pr. Cents 15/4
Defeicd 6 pr.Centj 15/6
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett!, and other Certificates 22/
Indents 14^6
Bank Stack—whole Hi a res 65 per cent.
—hair ftiares 109 per cent premium
127J pr. ceil*.
76§ do.
?7s do.
I's • 1o -
72J do.PREMI U M S.
THE Pennsylvania Society for the encourage
ment of Manufactures and the ufeful Arts,
taking into t heir confederation the Premiums pro
per to be offered for the enl'uiug year, agieed
upon the following :
THE CONDITIONS ARE,
That the specimens on which the premiums
fliall be claimed, mull be the produce or manu
facfture of Pennsylvania, Jersey, or Delaware,
and that they be exhibited to the board on or be
fore the fir It day of December I 702. That those
who may become candidates, will be expected to
prepare clear and fatisfa«ftory proofs, such as
their cases may require ; and that the Society
reserve to theinfeKes the right to determine,not
only the comparative, but the absolute merit of
the specimens produced by the different candi
dates, and of giving or withholding their premi
ums accordingly.
I. To such person as /hall exhibit the bed spe
cimen of Earthenware or Pottery, approaching
nearest to Queen's Ware, or, the Nottingham or
Dels Ware, of the marketable value of tiUv dol
lars— a Plate of the value of fifty dollars, or an
equivalent in money.
2. To such person as fliall exhibit the bed spe
cimen of Stone Ware, or hat kind of Earthen
Ware which is glazed with fait, of the marketa
ble value of so dollars—a Plate of so dollars va
lue, or that sum in specie.
5. To such person as (hall exhibit the larged
quantity of Wool, not less than joolbs. wt. the
produce oPone farm—a Plate of the value of 50
dollars, or the amount in specie.
4. To such person as fliall produce the larged
quantity of bleached Wax. fit for candles, or ex
portation, not less than $colbs. wt. —a premium
of Jo dollars.
J. To such person as fhnl 1 produce (lie great
est: quantity of painters' colours, manufactured
from materials found in Pennsylvania, New-Jer
sey, or Delaware—a premium of jo dollars.
6. To such person as (hall make and exhibit
the larged nnmber of Smiths' Anvils, not less
than 20 of roolbs. wt. each, equal in quality to
those imported—a premium of jo dollars.
7. To such person as (hall make and exhibit
the bed specimen of Stoves of call: iron, at lead
400wt. approaching 11 eared to the quality e/Bath
Stoves, in smoothness and evenneCs ot the furface,
and relief and elegance of the figures—a premi
um of 80 dollars.
8. For the belt specimen produced of small hol
low iron Ware, three tons wt. approaching near
est in lightness, elegance, &c. to the imported—
a premium of 50 dollars.
9. For the belt specimen of Stone or Marhle
Slabs, not less than 2000 square seer, sawed by
machinery, moved by horses or water—a premi
um of 50 dollars.
10. To the person who (hall produce the next
gveateft quantity of Stone or Marbie Slabs, rsot
less than 1000 square feet, sawed by machinery
moved by horses or water—a premium of 25 dol
lars.
11. For the bed specimen of Stone or Marble
polilhed by machinery moved bj horses or water,
not less than ISO square feet—a jJteniium of 50
dollars.
12. For the bell specimen of red leather, at
lead 100 skins, approaching nearest in finenefs of
colour and drefling to the Morocco leather—a
premium of 50 dollars.
Vublilhed by order of the Board,
Thomas M. Willing, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Dec. 9, 1791.
A«M.iriiLls, January l, 179®.
At a Meei ngof ihe Vili'ors and Governors of St. Jokk 's College,
in the S'atc of Maryland, on Thursday the toih of Novem
ber bis.
RESOLVED,
THAT thi« Biard, at the quarterly rorrtins in May next, pro
ceed to cleft a Vice-Principal of St. Johu's College.
" That H he the duty of the Principal and Vice-Principal, to
teach fotnc <-f the higher Auihort in La:'n and Greek, crriain
parts of the Mahemalics, and Moral an.l Xa ural Piiilofo
phy : and tha' lhie departments of ihe laid Princioal and Vicc-
Prin-ipal lhall hereafter he alcertained with precifipo, on confi
deralions ol iheir mutual convemenccand refpc&ive qualifications.
Tiiat the Vice-Principal ffiall he entitled to receive, for his let
vices, a faiary of if l ! re hundred and fifty pounds, current TUOD. y,
rating dolla's at ea-h, 10 t»e paid quarterly.
Thzt persons dcfirons of, and qualified lor the appointment of
\ ice-Princip'i. hr,b'y public advent r emcol rcqueft d to mike ap
plication -o Mr. Charles Wallace, Mr. Charles Carroll of Carroil
ton, and Mr. Alexander Co Titer Hanlon, all of the city ol Anna
polis. By order of the Board,
JOHN'THOMAS, PrefiHenr.
N. B. The fundamental Laws of St. John's College prohibi: all
prcferenceon account of r lie'oos tenets or opinions.
A« the ?oposntajent of a V»c<*-Principal is alette wanted, to
qomplest the plan of thisrifeirfiminary, the Beam will certainly
proceed to the ele&ion at the stated time; orovided a person qua
lified, in their judgment, for this imixmant station, can be pro
cured. The per tonal 2»rendanee of the candidate , although not
positively rcqn:rcd, will heobviOi Ov proper.
It mav be ufeful to remark, that the falariesof all the prnfeffors
and Teachers have Hitherto been paid withentire puuduahty ; and
t ~.at the funds ot Sr. John s College produce a certain annual in
come, fuoe ior to all the approprut ons, which have been, or pio
b2blv wili be made.
Zj T l 'tPr":'"!n;'.i!^pfiM;vn, :; 'n U t (he t'nitrd S:atf«.
J'f ra-nrfllv rrr., r (J,ri .K c ,h„,. rpfoivr and remarks—
and r c rcprai rHe a.- c:;cn ss convenience wi ! pcriri:.
A LOTTERY,
TO raifc the sum 750 for ihe purpose nt repairing the
Proieftant EpififrJlr Cliurch in thentyof Ncw-Brnnfwick,
agrrral>!r in an atl of the Leg)flaturc of the State of N ~w-Jerfey,
palled November 1791.
SCHEME.
1 Prize of 2CO® Dollan is vcoo
1
QO
<675
1814
35 ?o Blanks.
5334 T at 3 Dollars each, is i6gcs Dolls.
This Lottery is composed of 5334 Ticket*, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fiiby*# to a ardudioa of twelve and an ka*f per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than anv Lotterv yet
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot he doubted but the undertaking will meet with ttir moll
liberal support.
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in April,
or sooner if the Tickets are of. in the city of New
fyunlwiik, under the infpeftian of Col. John Bayard, Prefidefit
of said city; lames Parker, Esq. Mayor of the ury of Ambov;
and Archibald Mercer, E'"q. Deputy Governor of the Manufactur
ing Society ot New-Jersey.
Ticket* to be had of the following petfon?, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, and have given security sos the faithful perfor
mance of their duty. -
A lill of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the
prises paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEEN'ON'. ' Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
N. B. Those prizes which are not demanded within fix mcnths
a ter the drawing of the Lottery, will be confideied as a generous
donation to the Church.
.Virw-Prunfrcick, r»o, 1791
POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, January 9th, 1792.
ESTABLISHMENT of the MAILS fartht Yean 792.
IN mv aduertifement of the 9th inft. I mentioned the
of closing the different mails, at this office; and gave
notice, that letters must be left haif an hour that there m-jrht
be time to make up the numerous mails. For all letters are to
narked—accounts of them entered in a book—aitd tranjctipfi of thoji
accounts maie cut, to fend to the ntfpeclivc poji-TmrJtcr.i. But as some
gentlemen have 00l adverted to that notice, and to prevnt mis
takes in future, I request those who are possessed of mv advertise
ment of the 9th, to deftrov it. and attend to the following, in which
I have maiked the tinacs at which 1 tiers must be IfftcJ tht office,
to ensure their going, in the mail of the day.
the EASTERN MAIL will t>r closed on
Mondays
Turfdav* at eight o'clock in the morning, and reach
Wednefdavs New-York at two o'clock, P. M. pn each
Thursdays and | succeeding day.
Fndavs J
The Mail from >'ew-York will be closed there on the fame
days, and at. the Came time in the morning; and
Arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesday*
Wednefaays
Tburfdavs at one ©'clock, P. M.
Fridays and
Saturdays
The SOUTHERN MAIL will be closed on
Mondm ) at nine o'chxX, A. M. (reaching Balfitnwe «n
Wednetdaysaod > each facccedicg day at 3 o'clock, P. M.)
Fridays j and
Arrive at Philadelphia cm
Toe Td ays }
Thursdays and > at one o'clock, P. M.
Saturdays }
The MAIL for EASTERN SHORE of MARYLAND,
as far as CHESTERTOWN, will be closed on
Mondays } at half past seven o'clock in the m^niinj.
Wednefdaysand s (reaching Chefiertown on each fucceeoinz
Fridays da<.)and
Arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuefflays )
Thurfdavs and C 21 one ° c ' ock - "• ln 'ummer, and at two
Saturdays ) °' clock . P - M - in win '"-
-'•'r r _ rtlrc-rrn « 1 ■- » «»— »
The VAIL for CHESTER-MILLS and EASTON, will leave
Philadelphia every Monday with the other Mail* for the Eastern
Shore, and return with the fame every Saturday from November
ill 10 May id, and every Thurfdav the reft of the year.
The MAIL for DUCK-CREEK CROSS-ROADS& DOVER,
will also leave Philadelphia every Monday with the Eastern Shore
Mail, and return with the fame every Thursday throughout the
year.
The MAIL for PITTSBURG, will leave Philadelphia everv
Saturday at half past nine o'clock, A. M. and the Mail from
Pitiftiurg will arrive at Philadelphia every Friday at noon.
As there are several places of the fame name in the United
State?, the merchants ?nd nrhers are requeued to be v<*ry particu
lar in the direction of their letters ; and when letters are not for a
pest town,the ucareft poll town to the place to be mentioned.
ROBERT PaTTON. Poft-Mafler.
IO A t .SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant fit 11 at ion on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the sub
scriber now refidr?; about 95 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvements, which are a neat and commodious two story house,
comp 'eatiy fintfbed from the cellar to the garret, a kitchen, laun
dry, meat-house, dairv, two story barn, and ice house, a!i finifhed
i n the bell manner, toge;her with several other neceflarv outhoofes,
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a (kiHful Gardner now em
ployed inputting it in fine order; the land well enclosed with a
post and rail fence ; a well, and forin»s of excellent water—the
orofpe& is equalled by few, and excelled bv none in America—
it< contiguity to Alexandria, the Federal Town, and George-
Town, having a fine and full view of each place, must render it in
a few years of grr»t value, being dire&W in a line of communica
tion from A! xandria to the other two towns. Should a purcbafer
otter before the 15th of Febiuary next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indHputahlr title, clear of all incumbrances, wi'lbemade
bv the lut>fcr:be». I will also fell with this place, 220 Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 miles diftaot, which will suit well to sup
port the above in wood and timber.
Decent er 14, :-qi
American Apollo.
SUBSCRIPTIONS ton TFE AMERICAN AFOLLO,
A 'iew Publication, iuft commenced in Bcftoc,
ARE RICIIYI D BY THE EDITOR HIEEOF.,
320
1 coo
xooo
5 :o
2CO
1
5°
20
4
ioco
1000
1000
150°
1800
6700
16000
[ep 3rr ;
BALDWIN I>AT>F
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Township of Benfelem, in the County of Bucks,
Esquire, deceased, parfuant to the Directions
of his la(t Will and Testament.
OV Turfday the $71)1 oi March next will be expoCrd to Sale,
byway of Public Vendue, on »he p^cmifrs—One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, situate on the nvrr Delaware; on
which is ere&i'd a handsome two-story brrck honfe, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good harn,(tables, hay-house,
and ot he-r convenient s. A good orchard of the best kind
of grafted iruk,now in its prime; a garden well fenced ip,
and ingood order; and a shad and herring filhery before the door.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a fufficicncv of mea
dow, a la«»e front on tSe river, and runs back tothe post-road.
One othervcrv farm, joining the above ; containing
about two hu,n<lred and seven acres, the greatrft part of whjch is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, stable?,
and other outhouse?, with a young thr ; v»ng orchard of the best
grafted fruit, and a shad and herring £{hery. It has lor* been a
well accuftorw-d tavern; and the ferry be!©ng*ngto it, known fc>v
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the best profpe£ls on the
liver, and are remarkably healthy.
One other small Farm, eonta-ning aSotit f<xty-thre* acres, frtu
ate in the townftiip of Somhampro". ; -t x- ->uc. refaid ;on
which are ere&ed two 1" -r - and
a great fuffjeenev of wo
One Lor. c6tt9tniit£ : part-road
leading from s from the
former. On it is a goeo - - . ;: r Whopadr
joining, with a well of -ter . . ow in the
tenure of the Widow W
Also, at thefame time —A rHcr, will be (Wfl lUiherMtoinfog
Stock, Houfhold-Furniiurr, Tarmirtg Utcnfili, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. /Jhe «►{£»!« will b«* of th» pfii^iafe
tp tjr paid dow«, »M the HW'-p4v W l*» 7«»rly piy.
no'cpta with fotereft.
JOHN' SWIFT, )
JOHM. N V ESBIT, C Exeoo'ors.
SAMUEL BSN'EZfcT, )
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE jus* now opened their Le two doors
south of Walnut-street WharV, adjoining their New Fa&ory—
where thev have now made, and ready for sale, a general alTort
ment ofSHOT of aH sizes, with SHEET and BAR. LEAD, the
produttion of the Mine* in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English worktpen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufafture<i in.Europe, and at a redqrfd
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufa&ore all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. A! 1 orders addressed to either of the
above Fa&ories, wiil »e thankfully received, ami execmed oa the
(horicft notice.
N. B. Wanted, inductions, sober, Labouiing Men, at the (aid
Mines, wheretonftint employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, me*ns of conve\ ance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
Fo r further particulars enquire of MefTrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at theirT<*&ory in Richmond, or as above.
Pht/adeffhia, Deccnbcr 3. trot. tf
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C-O M M ISS IO N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnu?-Sfeet, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOH£A
T E A S,
REFINEP SUGARS,COFFEE, ftSPICES^.i-c.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street.bet-ween Chefnut and Market Streets
War Department.
JANUARY 2, 170?.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military invalids
of the United S:ates, that the sums "to which they are intitled
for fix months of their annual pension, liom the 4th day of Sep
tember, 1791, and which will become due on the 51b day of
March, 1792, will be paid on the said day by the Comm:ffioDCis
of the Loans within the itates refpedhvely, under the usual regu
lations, viz.
Every application, for payment mail be accompanied by the
following vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the slate, fpecifytt*? that the per
son poffefling the fame is in fact an invalid, and ascertaining the
sum to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidav t, agreeably to the following form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Jufticesof the county of
in the slate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to
whom the original certificate in his pofleffion was given, of whicl
the following -s a copy (the certificate given by the slate to be re
cited!) That he served (regiment, corps or veflel) at the time he
wasdifabled, and that he now resides in the and county of
anri has »-efided there for the lad
refined in
In cafe an invalid (hould apoly for payment by an attorney, the
fa»d attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, mull
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I. A. B. of county of state of do hereby consti
tute and appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my
behalf of mv pension for fix months, as an invalid of the Uni
ted States, bom the fourth day of September, one thoufaad (even
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
tbou r ar.d seven hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and feaJed
id the prcfence of
WitneiTc'
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators nrnft be srcompa
nted with legal evidence of their refpeefcive otfccrs, and also ot the
time the invalids died, penfron they may claim.
By command of the Prefidcnt of the United States,
H. KXOX, Secretary of War.
63" The Printers in the rtfpeQivc dates are requested to publiiH
the above in their newspapers, for the space of two months.
TO BE SOLD BY
A TABLE for receiving and paving Gold at the Bank of the
United States, the Value of Gold ia Dollars and
Cents, fr©m One to a Thoulami Pennvweights—according ro tbe
Ast of Congrels, ascertaining the Staodatd and Va ue of Gold.
(£T The JOURN ALofthc THIRD SESSIONef the SEXATE
of tteUXITZD STATES, way re hadof tie Editcrhcreef.
years* previous to which he
THE IDITOI,