I "JLf 7 0/'
[No. 54, of Vol. IV.] Wednesday, September 26. 1792.
FROM THE AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER.
MR. Dunlap,
THE public have been lately amu r ed with
lome criticisms in the United States Ga
zette, upon the political chara&er and conduct
t»f the Secretary of"State. The charges exhi-,
t>ited against him, in substance, amount to this :
1. That he was always inimical to the present
government, and has in a particular manner
shewn it since he came into office, by the free
dom with which he has cenfnrsd public measures.
2. That he has abused the trust reposed in him,
by confering the appointment of tranllator of
foreign languages, in the department of State,
worth 2s~) dollars per annum, upon Mr. Fre
neau, Editor of the National Gazette. This
appears to be the sum of the charges : whatever
else they contain is the figurative amplification
of the writer only, and reducible to no
head.
To that refpe&able tribunal to whom they
hare been submitted, upon the fa&sand illultra
tions given, partial as they are, so far as it ref
pefts himfelf the decision might be left without
a comment, fits countrymen have beep too
long and too well acquainted with his talents,
virtues, and services, to fuffer loose and equi
vocal charges of this kind to leflen him in their!
estimation. But this attack liasobvioully some
thing further in view, than (imply to wound the
fame of one deserving citizen. It is levelled at
that free and manlyYpirit of enquiry, which has
lately developed the principles, and demonstra
ted the mischievous tendency of some, of the
measures of government, and which it seeks to
crush, a spirit of enquiry which the author sup
poses has been foftered and cherished by him.
Ifaperfon of his note in the republican lift,
could be destroyed in the public confidence, its
cause would be humbled, and the friends of mo
narchy triumph. An attack, therefore, upon
this gentleman, mult be deemed a direst but
artful one upon principles, and in this view it
becomes a matter of public concern, and merits
particular attention.
What was his political conduct in early life,
through the revolution, and to the adoption of
the pre ent government, though the period was
momentous and eventfu', and the several fta
t ions' which lit- occupiejf futh &-• presented him
perpetually to the view of his countrymen,
seems of no importance upon the present occa
sion. This long and honorable career has el
caped the censure of the American, and I fha.ll
not review it for the fake of applause. I have
alluded to it merely to ftiew, that if he has not
kept pace, in all the revolutions of opinion,
pra&ifed by those who now censure him, he has
liotwithllauding been always consistent with
himfelf.
Before I proceed in reply to the firft charge,
to furnifh the documents which it is presumed,
will place his political sentiments in a fatisfac
tory point of view, a previous general question
lhould be noticed, which though not particular
ly conne<sted with him, may be deemed of im
portance to the community : " Wherein was
the merit or oifence of a favorable or unfavor
able opinion of the constitution, and to whom
rendered V It was a»propofition of great ex
tent, submitted as of right to every free ci
tizen, and npon which he was bound to decide ;
to have lhrunk from it would have been dis
honorable, and a fiiameful abandonment of his
duty. By what rule then, or upon what prin
ciple, (hall a man be rewarded or punished, for
the fair exercise of his judgment, efpeciallv
when called on to give it, by obligations he could
not resist, and upon a point, in which in prefer
ence to all others, the most unbounded free
dom should be u(ed ? I had supposed that if his
decision was a wife one, the benefits of the fyf
tein were to be his compensation ; if he erred,
his own and the calamities of his countrvf the
punishment ; that the question involved in it,
neither in the origin, nor its consequences, con
liderations oj' a personal nature, and that of
coiirfe the conduct of no man, in relation to
this object, be it what it might, merited reward
or punilhment. I could wilh that thole politi
cal casuists, who are acquainted with the trans
actions on the great theatre, would solve this
problem ; for to me it seems indifpenlibly ne-1
celfary tiiat thofewho arraign a fellow-citizen, j
before the bar of the public, should at least de
monstrate that the charge with which he" is ac
cused, contains in it fomethiug criminal.
It will be remembered that at the time the!
constitution was formed, and whilst under dif- :
cuflion in the State conventions, Mr. JefFerfon
was in France the minister of America. That
of the train of events which brought about the
important crisis of a general convention, as of
thoie which followed it, he was an interested,
but a distant fpeftator. •The nature of the trust
reposed in him by the public confined him to the
ipot. The only part he could bear in .the cares
ot that momentous period, was to unite with
liis fellow citizens in the molt fervent wishes,
that their labors might be fuccefsful, and re
dound to the advantage of their common country.
What his sentiments were on the fubjeft of j
the conltitution, and that of government gene-1
rally as conne<sßd with it, will be seen by the ,
following extracts taken from his letters ad-!
dreifedtoa particular friend, at the time oi
their refpedive dates, and in the cotirfe of a
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY "JOHN FENNO, No. 6q, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
very tnterefting and confidential correspondence.
As he could not have forefeen that in any pofl;-
ble event, they would be laid before the public,
they inuft be confide red as the free and iponta
neous effufions of his heart. From that friend
I have received them, and will if any doubtj
should be suggested oftheir authenticity, im
mediately make them acceflible to others. To
Mr. Jerferfon, whole approbation to this mea
sure, has neither been a iked nor obtained, some
apology for the freedom is due : to the confi
dence however which his own conduct has in
spired, that it was never his wifh,his sentiments,
up<fethis or any other fubje& of a public na
tujflfhould be with-held from his countrymen,
I it be attributed.
* u The season admitting only of operations
ftn the Cabinet, and these being in a great mea-
secret, I have little to fill a letter.
Werefore make up the deficiency by adding a
Few words on the constitution proposed by our
convention. I like much the general idea of
framing a government which should go on o
itfelf peaceably, without n.• Ming continual re
venue from the Irate legiiiaUu'el like the? or
gaiiization of the government into legislative
judiciary, and executive. I like the pov.e
given the legislative to levy taxe lam cap
tivated by the compromise of the oppofit*
claims of the great and little states, of the lat
ter to equal, and the former to proportional in
fluence. Xam much pleased too with the fubfti
tution of the method of voting by persons, in
stead of that of voting by states : and I like th<
negative given to the executive with a third o:
either house, though I should have liked it bet
ter, had the judiciary been appointed for thai
purpose, or inverted with a similar and feparatc
3ower. There are other good things of iel<
moment. I will now add what Ido not like,
Fir ft, the omillion of a bill of rights, providing
ilearly and without the aid of sophisms for free
dom of religiori, freedom of the press, protec
:ion against standing armies, re {trillion againfl
uonopolies, the eternal and unremitting forec
)f the habeus corpus laws, and trials by jury ir
ill matters of faer triable by the laws of the
and, and not by the law of nations. To fa\
hat a bill of rights was not necelTary becaufc
ili is refervct! inthe cafe of the general govern
uent which is not given, while in the particular
•nesall is given which is not reserved, is fuvely
. gratis di&um, opposed by strong inferences
rom the body of the instrument, as well as from
he omifiion of the clause of our present confe
leration, which had declared that in express
erms. It was a hard conclusion to fay because
lj|f!te has been no uniformity among the states,
s to the cases triable by jury, because some
lave been so incautious as to abandon this mode
if trial, therefore the more prudent states fliall
te reduced to the fame level of calamity. It
vould have been much more just and wife to
lave concluded the other way, that as most of
he states had judiciously preserved this palla
dium, those who had wandered should be brought
tack to it, and to have established general right
nftead of general wrong. Let me add that. a
•ill of rights is what the people are entitled to
igainft every government on earth, general or
and that no just government should
efufe, or reft on inference. The second fea
ure I dislike, and greatly dislike, is the aban
lonment in every instance of the neceflity of
otation in office, and most particularly in the
;afe of the president. Experience concurs
vith reason in concluding that the firft magif
rate will always be re-ele&ed if the conftitu
ion permits it. He is then an officer for life.
V his once observed, it becomes of so much con
equence to certain nations to have a friend or
i foe, at the head of our affairs, that they will
nterfere with money and with arms. A gallo
nar, or an angloinan, will be fupportetkby the
lation he befriends; if once ele&ed, and at a
second or third election out voted by one or two
rotes, he will pretend falfe votes, foul play,
lold pofTeflion of the reins of goverment, be fup
>orted by the States voting for him, eipeciailv
f they arc the central ones, lying in a corupaft
>ody themfelves,and separating their opponents :
ind they will be aided by one nation of Europe,
vhile the majority are aided by another. The
ile&ion of a President of America some years
lence, will be much more interesting to certain
latior.s of Europe, than ever the election of a
Cing of Poland was. Reflexion ail the inftan
•es in history ancient and modern, of elective
nonarchies, and lay if they do not give founda
ion for my fears. The Roman emperors, the
'opes, while they were of any importance, the
serman emperor? till they became hereditary
n practice, the Kings of Poland, the Deys of
he Ottoman dependencies. It may be said that
i elections are to be attended with these dii
•rders, the feldomer they are renewed the bet
er. But experience shews that the only way
o prevent disorder is to render them uninter
ifting by frequent changes. An incapacity to
>e clewed a second time would have been the
mlv eifeftual preventative. The power of re
noving him every fourth year by the vote of
he people, is a power which will not be exer-'
iled. The King of Poland i-, removable every]
lay bv the Diet, yet he is never removed—l
mailer objections are the appeal in fact as well
s law, ai-.i the binding all persons legislative,
133
executive and judiciary by oath to maintain
that constitution. I do not pretend to decide,:
what would be the belt method of procuring the
eftabiiihment of the manifold good things in
this cpnftitution, and of getting rid ot the bad.
Whether by adopting it in hopes ot future a
mendment, or after it has been duly weighed
and canvafle.d by the people, after ieeing the
parts they generally c'iflike, and those they ge
neraliy approve, to fay to them u we fee now
what you with. Send together your deputies
again, let them frame a constitution for you,
omitting what you have condemned, and efta
blidiing the powers you approve. Even these
will be a great addition to the energy of your go
vernment ; at all events I hope you will not
be tfifcouraged from other trials, if the present
one fhouid fail of its full effect. The late re
bellion in MalTachufetts has given more alarm
than I think it fhouid have done. Calculate
that one rebellionin thirteen States inthecourfe
of 11 years is but one for each State in a cen
tuiy and a half, nor will any degree of power
in the hands of government prevent insurrec
tions. France, with all its despotism and two
DrtS ee hundred thousand men always in arms,
has had three infurredtions in the three yea**s I
Paris, Dec. 20, 1787.
I will
have been here, in every one of which greater
numbers were engaged than in Matfachufetts,
and a great deal more blood was ipilt. In
Turkey which Montesquieu supposes more des
potic, infurreftions are the events ojf every
day. In England where the hand of power is
lighter than here, but heavier than with us,
they happen every half dozen years. Compare
again the ferocious depredations of their insur
gents with the order, the moderation, and the
aim alt felf extinguishment of ours. After all,
it is my the will of the majority
should always prevail. If they approve the pro
posed convention in all its parts, I {hall concur
in it cheerfully, in hopes that they will amend it
whenever they {hall find it work wrong. I
think our governments will remain virtuous
for many centuries ; as long as they are chiefly
agricultural ; and this will be as long as there
fliall be vacant lands in any part of America.
When they get piled upon one another in large
cities, as in Europe, they will become corrupt
as in Europe. Above all things I hope the edu
catior of the common people will be attended
to ; convinced that on their good fenle we may
rely with the molt security for the preserva
tion of a due degree of liberty."
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
THE writers against government, like the
Pharisees of old, seem to make up a very
good mouthy thanking God that they are not as
other men. It is very probable they are right,
and we may with good cause thank God that he
has not made all other men like them—for in
that cafe the world would be turned topsyturvy.
These writers affect to be the friends of the
people, champions of republican liberty,and men
of more purity than those who hold offices, or
who wish to support good order—that is to fay,
they pretend to be better than the reft of man
kind. If the fun were to shine into their dark
holes, their bragging pretensions would perhaps
expose them to ridicule. In another country,
the garret-fcribbfers talk big as long as they lie
concealed. It would be pleasant to fee their
lean host marfhal'd. Those who give law, as
far as dilating and finding fault will go, to na
tions ; who atfedl to lit in judgment; on kings,
and to fay to power, thus far (not very far)
flialt thou go, and no farther, would certainly
laugh at one another, and themselves if they
were brought together. The thrones of these
gazette kings are placed up three pair of flairs:
they descend from their power when they shew
themselves in the street. This is certainly true
of the greater part of the scribblers in one fo
reign city, and a great city it is. A*, our party
writers have adopted the polite style of their
Grubftreet progenitors, there is room to believe
that they are their peers in rank and dignity.
InlVances are not wanting to countenance the
opinion that some of the most audacious slander
ers of government are not more refpe&able. A
boy of 16 has been known to write political
pieces in a gazette in which he chattered about
men in high otfice lik£ a magpie. Besides, men
who have character, are the most cautious how
they attempt to take it away from others. But
the man who never had any, or having had
lome, has loft it, can write abulively against
public men without measure, and without any
feeling to check him—for he cannot make the
cafe of the man he rails at, his own. He is
more likely than a good man to believe ill of
his adversary, and he can abide him therefore
with a better conscience. For when he fees a
man in a public place, which is exposed to dirty
temptations, he takes it for certain, judging
from his own heart, that he has basely yielded
to them. Let a man, having nothing to do
with the government, but standing impartial,
read the base aspersions which have latelv been
thrown on public men and measures, he will
fay, it he has a good heart, that he had rather
be the fubjecTt than the author of them—he will
fay that thole hearts which could nurse fuchfuf
• picions, and those men who could publish them
i without proof, have shewn what and who they
an;. Z.
[To be concluded in our next.']
[Whole No. 5567)
THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
M r. Fenno,
I/M// £ heard it remarked, and J believe u ith a
great deal of truth, that Ike newfpoper culled the
National Gazelle, contains more. Ir.urrilitv again ft
the general govemmen;, than all the other public pa
pers in this city put together. And as it refpetls the
editor oj that p«p-r, I am not at all fur prized.—
I have always considered the per (on as mimical to good
government, who wrote for a paper called the freeman's
I Journalfome years ago. But mujl conjefs 1 feel some
\ uneaftnefs for the reputation of the Secretary of State t
when J fee such circumjlanccs brought forward by two
if your correfpnndents, as mufl naturally induct a be
lief that Mr. Freneau and his paper are probably re
tained by h'm, with the view of promoting certain po
| htical purposes.
Either the Secretary supposed that these circumjlanccs
would not have been attended to, or admitting his views
to beperfeßly upright, he may consider them as trifles
and of little conjequence ; but every public officer ought»
if poJfibUy on a!l occasions, to condutt himfelf in such
manner, as at lecjito give no probable cause for fvf
picion. And Mr. J ejferf on mufi certainly conclude,
when he comes to re fled on this bufinfs, that feme re
fpeft is due to the opinions of a people, who set a high
value on that government, which is juftlv elteemrd
the belt in the world ; and I have therejore but lit
tle doubt,that he will oblige vhe inierpreier either to
leave the office, or to construe in. bcticr language.
An OBSERVE!!;
FROM THE ALBANY REGISTER,
Mr. Barber,
Through the medium of your paper I beg leave to put
the following queries to the audacious John Cannon,
chairman of a pompous iheeting of fovte licentious
charaders, of the interior counties of Pennsylvania
at Pitt/burgh, the z2d of Augufl, *732.
Query ift. \ S you avow in the lace of the
£\. union—in the face of law, decen*
cy and common sense, your intention of oppo
sing the excite system, do you seriously suppose
that the whole strength of the union, in men
and money, is to be devoted to the protection of
the very counties you aifume to represent, and
that you (of all the people in America) fhouid
dare to oppose jhe government which prote&s
you ?
Query 2d. Do you suppose, that your stupid
rofoives are to influence the mealureiof the na
tion ? Recollect Sir—you arc not arting upon
the local ideas of a State as heretofore; but
compare your ineafures with a general national
system.
Query 3d. Can you be so mean and short
sighted as to luppofe, that the union at large are
to pay the expence of your protection (which
will cost it more than all your poiTellions are
worth) and that you are to be exempted from
a share of that burthen, to fay nothing of the
direst advantages you receive from the vail
sums of national property which are expended
every campaign among you?
Query 4th. Are you so loft to all fenle of
lhame, as to avow in the face of the world, that
you are so beastly attached to that filthy liquor,
called " whiskey," u that if the excise conti
nues it will bring immediate distress and ruin on
the western country." In your wife preamble
you jefuitically aflert, that you mean to purfus
no other than legalmeajurcs, to obtain what you
call redrrfs; but in your last resolve you give
the lie direct to this assertion, by illegally pro
nouncing u your vengeance against excise offi
cers which the laws of your country have efta-
Llifhed among you ; and declaring all persons
your enemies who have any dealings with them."
Finally, have you the prefumptior. to think,
that the fcnttering inhabitants in the wilds of
two or three back counties of Pennsylvania, are
to di&ate laws to the rising empire of America,
—G—d forbid blush ! John Cannon, and
when you appear again recolle<fl with a little
modesty, that you represent, but in part, a mere
speck on the map of America, and not one hun
dredth part of the inhabitants of the United
States.
Should your daring measures pass by with im
punity, I sincerely hope the reft of the union*
who are paying heavy duties to protest you,
will withdraw their protection, and leave you
to defend your scalps and drink whiikeyat your
leisure. Your western counties have long en
joyed the reputation of being the moll turbulent
and licentious people in America. It is hoped
as education increases among you, that the ri
sing generation will not 6nly enlarge their ideas
on a national scale, but that they will become
more liberal and civilized.
An electioneering addrcfs pablijhedin the Carlijle pa
per contains the following charatteriftic obfer-
vations.
IT matters little to the public who presides
in the Senate : They do not choose to let the
public know any thing about the reasons of
their political conduit ; the public therefore
may trouble themselves little about them, ex
cept it be to watch them with a jealousy, and
try to get rid of them as soon as poflible ; it is
but little good ever they did, and but little
good they can do, but they may do much evil;
there are however valuable characters shut up
in their Divan. We fiocerelywifh them re leaf
ed.—Pcnnfylvahia wanted a'Senator this last ses
sion ; we pray a greater evil may never befal
her.
A Northern Man.Foreign Affairs.
WARSAW, July 4-
THE latt accounts from the army of
PrinceJofeph Poniatowlki,menti
-011 his being now'poiled near Dubuo.
In his march front Oltrog, his rear
guard was continually engaged with
the enemy, by which the Ruffians 101 l
200 men, and otir troops about 40.
Jui.y 13.
We have received accounts here
that the Polirh army under Prince Jo
seph Poniatowfki, near Polonnoc, has
fnffered a great loss from the l(uffians.
On the 7th inlt. the Polish artny,
consisting of 25,000 men, approached
the Ruffians, whole numbers we have
110 accounts of. Prince Poniatowlki
was just absent ; thus the army was
■without a head. The Ruffians no
sooner appeared, but th« Polish Nati
onal troops were immediately struck
with a panic terror and put to flight.
Two Polifl) Generals, either thro'
inclination or fear, went over to the
Ruffians. A reinforcement of 20,000
men for this army was 011 the march,
and it is much apprehended they wilf
meet with the Ruffians unprepared.
The loss of our defeated army con
sists of the whole field equipage, 49
guns, 227 bags of gunpowder, 1475
firelocks, 50,000 cartridges, 24,000
i~ack9 of flour, j,ooo sacks of oats, 2?
cart loads of hay, 2800 pieces of cloth,
470 ammunition waggons, and the
chest of war ; 1737 '"en were killed,
439 wounded, and 1247 taken prison
ers. This affair cost the Ruffians no
thing, iince the Polish army made no
resistance.
On the joth July the King and the
whole corps de rcfer-je that was en
camped in the adjacent diftridts,
marched and fixed their camp in the
ood of Prague (in Poland)
on the oppofire banks of the Vistula.
B RES LAW, July 21.
The report of the defeatofthe Po
lifli army commanded by Prince Po
niatowfki, is not confirmed, and from
the accounts which have been receiv
ed, it feenis to be a falfe one, as they
mention nothing neither" of the ab
sence of Prince Poniatowfki the trea
<oll of one or more of the generals,
or the total defeat of the army.
GLASGOW, July 28.
The new gaol at Ipswich is divided
into four pares ; one for debtors, a
nother for convitfts, a third for felons,
and a fourth for women. They have
separate cells, and are provided with
a comfortable dress at the expence of
the county ; each tfas a bedstead,
ilraw, mattrafs ftieet, blankets, and
coverlid. From the ltrutflure of the
building no gaol dittemper can possi
bly arise, and every priloner on his
entrance is obliged to strip and be
bathed before he is apparelled with
the cloathing of the house ; nor are
strangers admitted to fee them.
PARIS, August 3.
The authenticity of the Duke of
Brunfwick's declaration is no longer
queftioij.ed ; but it has not produced
the union which all rational men
consider as ouronly means ofdefence.
On the contrary, the two pat ties are
as eager in reviling and calumniating
each other, as if they had no common
enemy. To their activity, hi this re
fpe<ft, may, I presume, be attributed
tjie idea of a letter which the Jaco
bins affirm to have been written by
the king to the duke of Brunfwick,
inviting him to Paris, and which the
f euillants aliert is a forgery by the
Jacobins, intended to be produced at
foine convenient opportunity, to de
lude the people, and serve as a pre
text for seizing the whole executive
power into their own hands. It is
our good fortune that these plots, if
they have any foundation in truth
are too much talked of to succeed. '
M. Robertl'pierre moved the Jaco
bins that to save their country there
ihould be a new national
to be chosen by the primary Aflem
blies, to exiit for one year, neither
the Aflemblee Conrtituente, nor the
present Afiembly, to be eligible to it,
and this convention to have the whole
power.
" Another member proposed, that
a Dirtaturate of twentv-one fliould
fupercede both King and Allernbly,
chnfe ministers, appoint generals.and'
conduct the war.
Such are the questions that now a
gitate the public mind ; but 1 fee a
probability in the present tumult, of
order. The Jacobins fay, they have
no more than 45 or 46 members in
the National Alfembly, upon whom
they can depend. All the relt are
either intriguers or touched by 1110-
derantifm ; be it so, we are likely at
least to have a confirmed majority on
one iide, and for the fake of experi
ment, 1 care not 011 which lide ; for
I desire them only to confront their
foreign foes and poflpone for the
term of war ac lcalt, all questions
merely acceflary.
" The National AfTembly to the Na
tional Guards of Paris, and to their
brothers in a'rins, the National
Guards of the several Departments
of the kingdom, come to Paris in
order to repair to the camp at So
i lions, or to join the armies 011 Che
frontiers
" Citizen' Soldiers,
" The Representatives of the peo
ple, whose lively solicitude watches
unceasingly over all parts of the king-
dom, think it their duty to inform
you themf«lves of the dangers that
threaten you. The enemies of the
conllitution redouble their efforts to
destroy your force by dividing it." It
is in the name of that liberty which
you adore ; it is in the name of the
law, to which you have sworn to be
faithful, lhat they have the audacity
to sow so fatal diflentions aniongyou.
Artfully perverting every circum
stance, reviving every prejudice, in
flaming every mind, they ftrive,from
district to diftridt, from division to
division, to lead you on to adtual
crimes, and make you turn your arms
against one another. They want to
introduce among you anarchy and ci
vil discord, those terrible precursors
of defpotifin ; they wish to deliver
you, without defence, to the po%vers
leagued against your liberty, your
independence, and your happiness.
" Citizen soldiers, mark the prec;
pice over which they wish you to fall.
The representatives of the nation
have shewn it to you ; they have 110
more fears on your account. Your
patriotism, your fidelity, the interest
of your country and your own, all
allure them, that apprized of the per
fidious plots against your fafety, no
force will be able to vanquish you,
because 110 fedutfiion will be able to
disunite you."
Proclamation by the King, for the
*' O »
maintenance of public tranquility.
" The King cannot fee, withoi
profound indignation, the arts of v
olence by which the public tranquil
ty for several days palt has been dii
turbed in the Capital, individual li
berty outraged, ihe fafety of person
and property endangered. His Ma
jefty would think hiiyfelf the accom
plice of such excefles, if he fuffereti
them in silence to be committed be
fore his eyes, and the blood of French
men to be sprinkled, to use a itrong
expreifion, on the walls ofhis palace,
on the gates of the National AHem
bly. If armed men are capable of
forgetting that there exist laws, the
guardians and protestors of liberty
and lives o'f citizens, his Majesty will
never forget that be is inveited with
the national power, but to maintain
the execution of thole laws. He has
already directed the minister of jus
tice to denounce to his commissioner
in the criminal tribunal, the crimes
perpetrated yesterday. He has to
day enjoined the department, the
municipality, all public officers, civil
and military, to employ all the means
given them by the constitution, to re
establish order and peace. Heinvites
all the citizens to concord, to refpert
for the conlHtuted authorities, to
zeal for maintaining tranquility ;'and
111 cafe of its being difhirbed af.efli
he enjoins all the friends of their
country and of liberty to give force
Co the 1 aw.
At Paris July 3 ,ft f I? 2 f ,
year of Libei ty.
(Signed) « LOUIS.
(Undersigned) « CHAMPION "
The general council of the depart
ment of Morb.han, have prohibited
he CMculauon (till the national as.
ten,bly ordered otherwise) of thirteen
incendiary newlpapers.
M. Luckner's army 'has marched
towards Meiz. That of M. La Fav
ctte has marched through Sedan
134
This morning the capital was on
the point of being a scene of confuli
on and bloodlhed— on account of the
populace receiving information that
there were a large quantity of arms
concealed in the Kings Palace ; they
had afleinbled in vast numbers in the
Kauxbourg St. Antoine, &c. but the
virtual Pet lON arriving and all'ur
ing them to the contrary, they dif
peifed without any confetjuences.
The present plan of the Jacobins
adopted in their cavern on the 25th
as follows :
I. To suspend the King. 2. To
form an Executive Council iuftead ol
him. 3. To abolish the Civil Lilt for
ever, and that all the King's expences
and those of his family fliall be de
frayed by the National Treasury.
The quantum to be fixed every year
by the National Afl'embly. Those ac
counts to be pablilhed yearly. That
this plan be sent, not to the 83 De
partments as was at firit intended, but
to the 44,000 Municipalities of the
kingdom.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, >
July 24
M. Monrefquiou appeared at the
bar. He plainly informed the augulh
Diet, that the King of Sardinia hag
70,000 troops ready to march, whff
receive war pay.
M. Montefquiou said that his army
confided of only 94 battalions for the
defence of all the Southern Depart
ments, and that 32 battalions only
could be employed in the campaign.
, M. Guerin said that he would de
nounce to all good citizens any man
who ihould maintain that the King
ought not to be deposed.—" Then
you may denounce nie," cried M.
Boulanger.
Read a letter from the war minister,
containing information that the Auf
trians are extending their lines at Ba
vay, with a view to intercept all com
uiunications with Maubeuge, that the
towns threatened with an attack are
fortifying night and and that
M. Dillon has held a council of war
at Valenciennes on the operations
most proper to be adopted at this cri
tical moment : that the fire has con
sumed in that town all the camp im
plements, and that some men have
been arretted on suspicion of being
incendiaries.
M. Duhame declaimed loudly a
gainfl the treachery of the executive
power.—Adjourned.
July 25.
On the motion of the military com
mittee it was decreed, that every com
mander of a fortified place, who (hall
surrender before a practicable breach
is made in it, or without fuilaining at
least one allault, if there be an inte
rior entrenchment, lhall be punilhed
with death.
That fortified places being the pro
perty of the whole nation, in no cafe
can the inhabitants or adminillrative
bodies of fucli places require the com
mander to surrender, on pain of be
ing treated as rebels and traitors to
their country.
The following extraordinary cafe
was referred by one of the criminal
tribunals to the Afl'embly :
" A woman, two months gone with
child, had run some melted lead into
her husband's ear, who instantly ex
pired. The culprit made the moll
ample conleflion, and excused herfelf
by lifying, that ihe loved her hulband
tenderly, but that she could not refill
the inclination} of a w»man in her Jitu-
ation
" We have consulted the Faculty
011 this point, and they have unani
mously declared, that the longings
of a woman with child might be I'uch
as to induce her to commit so horri
ble a deed, without her own volition.
" We requell the rtfl'embly to di
re»si us how 10 proceed upon thisfub
jec't.
July 26.
The Aflembly decreed, that a Le
gion conipoled entirely of foreigners,
ihould be raised under the name of
Legion Blanche Etrangers. it is to
consist of 2622 men, of whom 500 are
to be mounted on horseback.
M. Gaudet, in the name of the
comnnflion of public fafety, presented
the projetft of an addrels to the King,
requelling him, "in the name of their
common country, and from regard to
his own interest, to batiifh from about
his person, all those who are the ob
jeiils of public mistrust, and thecaufe
of the present alarmln
activity.
M. Briflot then rose, „ d
and eloquent speech, dep re JY " :
cipitation, which according , J ii
would produce a civil war ° "
He observed, that the Kin* TV
not to be tried, until all France fe
be convinced of his perfidy.
He concluded by moving i(V tl
the committee ftould bring j,' * 1
port concerning .hole cases i„ wh l
a Sovereign „„ght he confid'erej ,
having abdicated his IWalty . J!
2 y, VV hither an abdication had now
really taken place? He recommend*
an address to the nation.
Mr. Arena moved that the late mi
ni .y be Puniihed, without excepting
one individual as being guilty ofiiavt
mg betrayed the nation.
L O N D O N, July i 9.
The Court of Vienna is faidto have
lnfifted on the difniilfion 0 f Calonne
from the g>uncils of the French
Princes, on account of the genml
deteftationin which he is held in
France.
I The Cardinal Archbilhop of Twin
|as published, by order of hu Coait
■ paltoral letter, to invite the people
to pray for the fuccels of the Piemon
tefe arms againlt a nation equally the
enemy of God and of Kings.
The Ambaflador from the- United
States of America to the &>iu&'C«w
arrived 011 Friday night, with
merous suite, and has taken op
residence at the Royal Hotel, Su
James's.
Two ltandards belonging ioTippoo
Sultan's army, and taken by Lord
Cornwallisi before the walls of Serin-
gapatam, have been sent home by his
Lordlhip as a present to Lord Pea.
broke.
The Auftrians and Pruflians have,
it is laid, finally determined to form
immediate arrangements for advanc
ing to Paris, which they are resolved
to capture on or before the 23d u?
October next.
The Declaration of the Duke of
Brunfwick is said to be a compolition
entirely his own, and contrary to the
opinion of Prince Hohenlohe, the
General of the Imperial troops. The
Duke was perhaps afraid that he
fliould not meet with opposition e
nough in France to afford an oppor
tunity for a full display of his mili
tary lkill, and propofcd a declaration
to provoke the whole nation to unite
against him.
The f übfeription towards the suc
cour of the people of Poland is likely
to be taken up ill away unprecedent
ed in the history of England. Not
merely coiporations, public bodies
and clubs—but the ladies have*dillin
guilhed themselves in a cause so no
ble, and foine of our molt exalted wo-
men emulate the Duchess of Marlbo
rough in the cause of Maria Theresa,
A diabolical attempt has been made
to poison the bread making for t lie
Prussian army. The bakers had
ceived for that purpose large funis ot
money, and as soon as the money was
in their pockets they discovered the
whole plot. Several frenchmen were
immediately taken up and committed
to prison. They palled for emigrants.
The attorney-general has given no
tice to Jordan the bookseller, pub
lilher of Mr. Paine's Rights of Man,
that his pleading Guilty, will noi
entiile him to any more favour than
he ihould have received, h> d he beea
cortviifted.
Angling is not confined to the wa
tery element : a gentleman of the
black rod, one evening lad week, "e
---ry dexterously contrived'to cram a
hook with a wire to it, through t -e
key-diole of Mr. Francis's Ihop, ' e
clothier,in Cheller j where lie caught
about 30 yards of cloth, whic 1C
found means to drag through .ma
perture at the bottom ol the door.
The government of this f ° unl !' s j;
in the whole of their conduit
regard to the revolution in ranc
have maintained 4 a system 0
neutrality, They have eqiia )
borne to interfere in the.r eternal
government, or take advaut'g
their diftrefles. They haveT.kew.fc
taken care not to pledge 1 {nl ,
by any tie to their fuppoit, or .
any claim which might 1 ei> e
a Alliance neceHary.-I" ftor «h«J
have left the French to US aiie
theinfelves.t
August 7,
■'j
/
* tUxtrafl oj a letter from CobliKtz,
July 28
" This court has exhibited for some
days past, the nloft ac r tive and inter
esting scene that can be imagined, Jby
the ailemblage of a greater number
of sovereigns and princes than per
haps were ever colle<2ed before on
any occasion. The elector, ever dis
tinguished for hospitality and magni
licence,'has had the l'atisfa<ftion of en
tertaining at once, the king of Prus
sia, the duke of Weymair, the arch
duke Charles, the French Princes, the
prince of Prussia, the prince of Ba
den, the prince of Wirtemberg,
prince Augultus of England, the
prince of Nassau, &c. and, besides
thefcj many of the most diftinguiflied
ir.hara<siers in their different lines of
War and politics.
" The king of Pruflia came down
the Rhine from IVlayence, after the
conference there held with the em
peror. The elector of Treves went to
meet his inajefty in the barge of state,
accompanied by bis whole court, in'
the highest style of magnificence.
The two barges being arrived near
each other, the Engliih sea officer, fir
Sidney Smith, who accompanied the
elector, went forward in a finall boat,
and the ceremony being adjusted,
the two sovereigns met on the majef
tic Rhine, whose banks were covered
with the different corps of French
emigrant troops, now, for tile firft
time, formally permitted to appear
under arms.
" Preparations are making to ena
ble the Pruflian army to move for
ward. It is, at present, encamped on
the French fide of the Rhine, which
it eroded in three columns, over a
bridge of boats and two swing bridges,
built after the model of the floating
bridges on the coalt of lomerania
The Duke of Brunfwick's Manifefto,
it is expedled, will strike such a ter
ror into the minds of the inhabitants
<©f France, that they will not (uffer
the army or the national guards to
make any resistance, lince it Cannot
be fufficient to defend them, and can
only draw on them the threatened
vengeance of military execution.
" The Austrian army, under the
command of the Prince Hohenloe,
has eroded the Rhine at Swetzingen,
near Manheim, and will proceed to
invest Stralbourgwithout lofsoftime.
" His Royal Highness Prince Au
gustus, of England, dined with the
King of Prussia in»*camp yesterday,
and afterwards took leave of his Ma
jesty, previous to his Hanoverian at
tendants ; he was attended by all the
Englilh young men of diftin&ion
h«re ; Lord Borigdon, Lord Gran
ville Gower, the Hon. Mr. Frederick
North, Sir Sidney Smith, Mr. Jenkin
fon, member of the British Parlia
ment, Captain Coflby, &c. &c &c.
STATE PAPER.
Additional Declaration oj his Mofl Se
rine Highness the Reigning Duke of
Brunfivick and Lnnenburgh, addrejfed
to the inkabitanti of France.
THE declaration which I have ad
drefietl to the inhabitants of France,
dated Quarters General at Coblentz,
iuly 25, must have fufficiently made
riown the firm resolves of their irra
jeflies the Emperor and the King of
Pruflia, when they entrusted me with
the command of their combined ar
mies. "The liberty and the fafecy of
the sacred persons of the King, Queen
and Royal Family, being one of the
principal motives which have defer
mined their Imperial and Royal Ma
jelties to atft in concert ; I have made
known, by my said declaration to the
inhabitants of Paris, my refolveto in
flidl on them the most terriblepuni(h
inents, if the leaftintuit should be of
fered to his Mod Chriltian Majesty,
for whom the city of Paris is particu
larly responsible.
Without niaking the lead alterati
on in the Bth article of the said de
claration of the 25th fnff. I declare
besides, thac if, contrary 10 all expec
tation, by the perfidy or bafenels of
some inhabitants of Paris ; the King,
the Oueen, or any other persons of
the Royal Kamily, should be carried
off from the city, all the places and
towns whatsoever, which lhall not
have opposed their paflage, and (hall
not have flopped their proceedings,
(hall incur the fame punishments as
those infliifted on the inhabitants of
Paris ; and the route which (liall be
taken by thole who carry off the King
and Royal bamily, /hall, be marked
with a series of exemplary punish
ments, justly due to the authors and
abettors oi crimes for which there is
no reinidion.
All the inhabitants of France in
general are to take warning of the
dangers with whfch they are threat
ened, and which it will be impossible
for them to avoid, unless they, with
all their might, and by every means
ill their power, oppose the pallatre of
the King and Royal Kmnily, to Viat
ever place the facftions may attempt
to carry them. Their Imperial and
Royal Majelties will not allow any
place of retreat to be the free choice
of his most Christian Majesty (in cafe
he should comply with the invitation
which has been made) unless that
retreat be effected under the escort
which has been offered.
All declarations whatsoever in the
name of his most Chriltian Majesty,
which shall be contrary to the objecSt
which their Imperial and Royal Ma
jefjies have in view, (hall consequent
ly be considered as null and without
effetft.
Given at General Quarters at
Coblentz, July 27, 1792.
Charles Gdillaume Ferdinand,
Due de Brunfwick Lunenburgh.
Philadelphia, Sept. 2 6.
At a conference held at Lancaster, on the
20 th day of September, 1792, for the purpose of
proposing to the consideration of the citizens,
the names of suitable persons to represent this
State in the Congress of the United States, and
to l'erve as electors of a President and Vice-
President.
Conferrees attended from Philadelphia,
county of Bucks, Chester, Lancaster, York,
Berks, Northampton, Montgomery, Dauphin,
and Delaware.
Friday, Sept. 21.
The genrlemen present having conferred to
gether, and so far as was in their power collect
ed the sentiments of the good people in this com
monwealth, as to the most fui table persons to lerve
in the capacities aforefaid, it was agreed to pro
pose to the consideration of their le llow-citizens,
the following ticket for members of Congress.
Thomas Fitzfimons, Thomas Scott, Frede
rick A. Muhlenberg, William Irvine, James
Armstrong, Thomas Hartley, Daniel Heifter,
John W. K'.ttera, Henry Wynkoop, William
Bingham, William Findley, Samuel Sitgreaves,
Peter Muhlenberg.
And the following ticket for electors of a
President and Vice-President, viz.
James Rofb, of Wa/hington ; Robert Cole
man, Lancaster; Henry Miller, York; John
Boyd, Northumberland; William Henry, North
ampton ; Thomas Bull, Chester; JohnWilkins,
jun, Allegany ; Cornelius Cox, Dauphin; Da
vid Stewart, Huntingdon ; James Morris,
Montgomery; George Latimer, Robert Hare,
city and county ofPhiladelphia ; Joseph Heifter,
Berks; Hugh Lloyd, Delaware; Robert John
son, Franklin.
By order of the meeting,
GERARDUS WYNKOOP, Chairman.
Attest,
THOMAS ROSS, Secretary. («opy.)
The anniversary commencement of Yale-
College was celebrated at New-Haven on Wed
nesday the 12th instant, with the usual formali
ties—after the exercises of the day were finifh
ed—the degree of Bachelor was conferred on
thirty.four, and that of master of Arts oa twen
ty-one gentlemen.
The honorary degree of master of arts was 1
conferred on the honourable William Hillhoufe,
Esq. and on Daniel Dewey, Esq.
The degree of do&or of laws on the lion. Hen
ry Marchant, judge of the diftrift ofßhode-Ifl
and—the hon. John Worthington, of Maftachu
fetts, and the hon. Oliver Wolcott, lieut. gov.
of Connecticut.
The rev. doctor ClacGett, of the state of
Maryland, was confeerated bilhop for that state
in New-York, by the right reverend. Samuel
Provooft, on Tuefoay, last week.
The electors of the city and county of Phila
delphia, are notified by the fheriff to meet on
Thursday the 9th day of October next, to chufe
five perlons for representatives for the city, five
persons for representatives for the county, and
one person for commillioner; and at the lame
time to chufe thirteen persons for representa
tives of this state in Congress-
A letter from Savannah, fays that the Indi
ans are at peate, but will on 110 terms consent
to running the lines agreeable to treaty.
On Tuesday evening the following gentle
men were elected managers of the stock, to be
employed in establishing the manufactories of
maple sugar, and pot-ash, and in promoting
agricultural improvement in Northampton
county, in this state, viz.
Timothy Pickering, president.
Henry Drinker, treasurer.
Samuel Pleasants,
Samuel Hodgdon, and
Samuel M. Fox, secretaries. .
The proposed manufactures are to be efta
blilhed on a large body of rich land, near the
Delaware.
The following is a statement of the quantity of
rice (hipped from Charleston, South-Carolina,
from the 1 jtb of December 1791, to September
135
1792, viz. One hundred and eight thousand five
hundred and sixty-seven tierces. The nett
weight of each tierce may be averaged at five
hundred and fifty weight.
A petition will b? presented to Congress, at
their next session, praying them to take into
confederation the impropriety of officers a&ing
under the excise law being proprietors of stills,
or any way interested in a still or ftilh.
At the last Qourt of Quarter SefTions for the
county ofChefter, in this State, Joseph Evans
and Robert Fletcher, with several others, were
indi<sted for a riot, afiault and battery on Jacob
Humphreys, who was in the execution of his of
fice under what is commonly culled the Excise
Law" of the United States.
The other defendants had not, at the time of
the trial, been taken.
The Jury convi&ed both the defendants, and
Fletcher was fined 501.
Abjlraft oj European intelligence by the Britijh packet
Antelope, in 35 days from Falmouth, arrived at
New-York tnfl I'hurfday.
; It is said in the foreign prints, that a cefl'a
ition of hoflilities is agreed upon between the
Poles and Ruffians—a number of volunteers
have left Ireland to join the French armies—
The Auftrians have left Bavay, the only French
place they were in poffeflion of—A manifefto of
the French emigrant princes has been circula
ted in the frontier towns of France; it recom
mends an oblivion of past grievances, proposes
a form of government similar to that of Great-
Britain, king, lords and commons; the estates
and titles of the nobility to be restored, &:c.—
About the 4th August the Prussian army was to
enter#'ranee. A plot to assassinate the new
emperor of Germany, is said to have been dis
covered at Frankfort. Several recent fkir
miHies have taken place between the French
and Auftrians, in which the former have been
generally fifccefsful. Three hundred thousand
men are on the banks of the Rhine, &c. &rc.—
An ast of re-confederation has been signed at
Wilna, in Poland, under the auspices oftheem
prefs of RufTia. A great part of the Ruffian ar
my was within 30 leagues of Warsaw—The
elector of Mayence has suggested to the minis
ter plenipotentiary of France, at his court, in a
note, whether in the present posture of affairs
it would not be better for him to retire from
that country in which he cannot be allured of
perfect fafety, or be received in the chara&er
of minister.—A fiibfcription for the king of Po
land is opened in England, which it is expe<sted
will amount a large sum—James Napper
Tandy, Esq. of Dublin, lately fubpeened the
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in the court of Ex
chequer, but the plaintiff's attorney refufing to
declare the cause of action, after con liderable ar
gumentation by Mr. Butler, another of the plain
tiff's attornies—the court ordered the bulinefs to
stand over to the next term, for further argu
ment. —The academy of Sciencies at Paris ha,ve
allotted the prize of 1200 livres to Dr. Herfchel
tor his aftromomical discoveries.— Among other
presents to the emperor of China, which are to
be carried by Lord Macartney, are a pair of
Globes, the moil magnificent ever executed in
England j on the celestial globe are inferteri
5864 stars of seven different magnitudes, on a
beautiful enamelled ground, each magnitude is
distinguished by gold, silver, and different co
loured foils. The terrestrial Globe is accu
rately laid down, and beautifully illuminatod—
they are mounted in gold and silver.
The French resident in Constantinople, ac
cording to a letter from that city, declared in
confidence that an army of 100,000 Turks will
(hortly march into Hungary; this would be a
powerful diversion in favor of the French cause.
The loss by the fire at Valenciennes is estima
ted at 200,000 livres—it is pretty fully ascer
tained that this misfortune was not occalioned
by accident.
The French poftefs great advantages over
the Auftrians in the superiority of their artil
lery ; to this is to be attributed the great loss
of the latter where the former have experien
ced very little loss at all. It is said that the
National troops of France have given fiich
proofs of their ipirit discipline and bravery,
particularly in the affair of Orchies, that they
are more dreaded than the troops of the line.
Great tumults have recently prevailed in Pa
ris ; M. D'Efpemenil, and M. Champion one
of the present Ministry have been very roughly
treated by the populace—the former had his
clothes torn pfF his back and was fobadly wound
ed that his life is in danger. They were refc
cued by the guards. The concuflion of parties
still exists in Paris ; the Feuillants keep their
hold round the King. The Jacobins are enra
ged at feeing a new Ministry tff Feuillants—
The fufpenlion of the executive power being
proposed in the committee of twelve; M. de
Montefquiou said, 44 If move to suspend
the King, I will answer, that the next day you
will neither have officers nor soldiers in your
army.''
M. Champion, the minister of the interior
department, was wounded in the head with a
sabre, of which he lips dangerously ill—The as
sassin was taken, his name is Hyon, a furious
Jacobin.
M. Briflot de Warville, in a speech in the
National AfTembly, when he came to ertanfine
the different propositions lately agitated " for
suspending the King* for appointing a di&atu
rate, for convoking the primary aiTemblies,' in
order to taking their opinion on reforming the
Conftitution."—Of each of these hedifapproved,
as highly dangerous, and proposed that an ad
dress to the people should be prepared, to warn
them against believing that any such were in
contemplation, or fit to be adopted. This mo
tion was agreed to.
On the Bth of August Mr. Pinckney, the
American Minister, had his firft audience of
the King of Great-Britain—when he delivered
his credentials. Pie was introduced by Mr.
Dundas,one of the principal Secretaries ofState,
and conducted by Mi. Cottere), Deputy Mattel
of the Ceremonies.
The Ele&or of Saxony lias joined the league
against France.—An order has passed the Na
tional Affeiuoly lor clearing the nunneries and
monaftei .es which had continued to be occupied
by the religious orders—that thole buildings
might be appropriated to the accommodation of
the troops.
The merchants of London lately gave an ele
gant entertainment to Mr. Bond, the Britiili
Consul, in teftiiuony of their ienie of t!:» e!io. ,-
tial services rendered bv him to the BritiPi mer
cantile interelt in the United States of America.
I irg. Pape<
Monday last arrived the lliip Gdbrge Barclay,
Capt. Collet, from London, which she left the
iithofAuguft, ult. but made ,the paflage froci
la»d to land in 28 days.
The following ladies and gentlemen came
palTengers in the George Barclay :—Mr. Cox,
his lady and child; two Miss Butlers ; Miss
Davis; Miss Manley ; Mr. Michael Roberts
Mr. Pratt, and several in the steerage—in th 4
whole 22 paflengers.
Five performers from the London and Dublin
theatres, are to make their firft appearance
this evening, at the theatre in Southwark.
The person who was lately committed to
goal an ftifpicion of being'concerned in the mur
der of Elizabeth Reeves, having been examined
by the proper authority, nothing appeared
against him to confirm the suspicion—he was
accordingly discharged—lt is proper therefore
that the public should be notified that the pro
clamation of the supreme executive of this
commonwealth remains in force.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
It is positively aflerted, that the people in one
vicinity in the United States, who opposed the
collection of the excise, have never paid a state
tax sinCe the late war ! 'Tis not this, that, or
the other mode of revenue, which they would
oppose, but the payment Of any and all public
dues. Not to execute the laws among such'
people, would be to abandon the maintenance
of civil society, and to reduce a free and civil
ized nation to a state of nature. Mail.
The world is ftrangelv fettered by custom
even in matters which their own senses are dai
ly teaching them to understand. The writers
against the excise cunningly avail themselves of
the ancient aversion to this tax to raise an hue
and cry against the law of Cougrefs. The word
is worth more to their purpose than all the ar
guments they have been able to conjure up.
They carefully remind us of the expression of
the old Congress, that an excise is the abhor
rence of free States, and they add that it is o
dious even in monarchies. But they avoid
pointing out the odious parts of an excise sys
tem. It would not suit their views to confefs
that the law in this country is well guarded
against abule ; that officers are not to break
open houses and the mode of trial is not arbitra
ry nor summary. Will names therefore be fuf
ficient always to scare a discerning people !
Will old prejudice outweigh denionftrative ex
perience ? We have had trial of an excise and
we know it is not the man eater that it was re
presented to be. States most justly zealous
for liberty have had excise laws tbefe forty
years. It is the interest of the people to know
the truth, and every day is teaching them that
an excise is one of the faireft and least oppressive
taxes that can be laid.
Mr. Fenno,
THE writer of the paragraph in your paper
of the firft instant, who mentioned the duty on
nails as being one cent per pound, had reference
to the duty laid by the former law ofCongrefs—
not adverting to the duty of two cents laid by
the ast which took place the firft of July last.
Mr. DujJlap having called on the Editor
with a request as from the author of the publicati
on which appeared in his paper of Saturday last,*
that it might appear in this Gazette ; in compli
ance with that request (though anonymous) the re
publication is begun this day—This circutnftance
most apblogize to the author of Catullus tor
defering his third essay till Saturday, when it thai!
be published without further delay.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship George Barclay, Collet, London
Brig Little Sarah, Thomas, Jamaica
Good Intent, Pcarce, Antigua
Active, Foster, Gion
Henricus, lager, Amsterdam
Sch'r Eagle, Wilson, Charlcfton
Sloop Abby, Ames, ffofton
Abigail, Allen, Curracoa
Newborn Packet, , Cape-Francois
Polly, Norris, St. Cioix
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 22/* )
3 per Cents, i©/" C
Deferred, . , 3 y 6
Full /hares Bank U. S. 49 P cr cent. prem.
j (hares, 60
Strayed or Stolen,
FROM the iubf.riber, on the night of the {Bth
instant, from the inclofure of John Clark,
of Trenfon Township, Hunterdon county, New-
Jersey, a Chefnut Sorrel MARE, about nine years
old, fourteen and an half hands high, bald faced,
white feet and eyes, a bunch on her left and near
fide, occasioned by a hurt, small long neck, chin
mane, shortish tail, shod all round; Whoioever
will take np said Mare, and return her either to
John Clarß, of Trenton, Richard Varian,
New-York, or the fubferiber in Danbury, Fair
field countv. State of Connecticut, shall receive
EIGHT DOLLARS REWARD for the Mare and.
Thiet, or FOUR DOLLARS for the Mare only.
JAMF.S TROWBRIDGL
Trenton, (N.J.) Sept. 18, 1792
SHIP NEWS.bOwen's fxhibitiom of
Wax-Work & Paintings,
AT the House lately occupied by Mrs. Pine,
in Eighth-street, is now ready for the en
tertainment of the Public. Among a great
variety of Paintings, are a number of
Italian & frenchpieces,
which are new and very pleafmg.
Also, a large colle&ioo 01
NEW IV AX FIGURES.
The Exhibition is open every dav, ironi nine
o'clock in the morning, until nine "in the even
ing. Admittance Half a Dollar for Ladies
and Gentlemen, and haljprice lor Children.
Tickets for the fealon, (not transferable)
Two Dollars.
Fur Sale, at the Exhibition Rooms,
LIKENESSES of the PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES, in WAX,
And a variety of Elegant PRINTS in Frames.
Sept. 21
The SUBSCRIBERS tS the
Universal Tontine
Are informed, that a general meeting is to be held
at the in this city, on Saturday the 3d
day of November next, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
agreeably so the sixth article of their aflociation.
By order of the Agents,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry
Philadelphia. Sept. 15, 1792. ('"P<3N
B O O
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
M'A T H E W CAREY,
Nu. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. A MERICANMUSEUM,fiorn itscommence
j7\. tnent in January 1787, to June 1792, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound arid lettered,
leventeen dollars and three fifths.
This work, which is now conducted on'an im
proved plan, containing the best pieces published
for and againfl the proceedings of government,
will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and mi fcellaneous essays,
as any ever published in America, Perhaps in no
one work are so many valuable docum nts refpeft
ing the hiflory of this country, colle&cd together.
His Excellency the Piefident of the United States,
has declared of it, that " a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement."
The fubfeription is two dollars and a half per
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wish to
be supplied with this work, are requested to give
commiilion to friends in the city to lubferibe for
and receive if Any of the back numbers
inay be had in order to complete sets.
2. Smith's Letieis to Married Women, on Nurs
ing and the management of Children. , ,
" We recommend these letters to the perusal of
those to whom they are particularly addressed."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. ioi— Price, bound,
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of Blair-
-50 cents.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss
More'sE flays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone 011 command ot Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's Hittory of New-York. Piice a dol
lar and a quarter. •
8. Elements of Moral Science,-by James Beat
tie, l. l. d. profeffor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : " We
have seen nothing on these fubjetts more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful." 1
N. B. It is introduced into the University 111 Phi
ladelphia.
q. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-fi/ihs of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
11. Necker'sTreatife on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations oi Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bths of a dollar.
13. The Conditutionsof the several United States,
with the Federal Constitution, See. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American left Book. Price three-fifths of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The Do way Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—- Price, elegantly bound and lettei
ed, 50/2—plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecum—Price a
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Christian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
2t. History of Charles Grandiion, abridged
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
•f a dollar.
23. Sde£l Poems, chicfly American-~Pi ice a
sixth ot a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, 3 large aflortment ot
Books, European as well as American editions
which he will dispose of on the moli reasonable
terms. Couniry gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being fupplicd in
the molt falisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries
or to (ell again.
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-lfreet, New-York,
THli Subfciiber intending to confinc hi'mWf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS ON COMMISSION, Begsleave [ooffer
his services to his friends and others, in the line
ot a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fla
vor him with their bufmefs, may depend upon
having it tranfaflcd with the utinoft fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia,Bodon, or any olher
part ol the United States will be ftriflly attend
ed to.
LEONARD -BLEECKER.
(t.f.)
May 2
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold bw THOMAS DOBSOX, and oiher
Bookiei;er.v in Philadelphia,
\ Collection of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
KITUAL SON ( > ; (elected from different
Authors, and pubjilhed by Oder of the Con
vention holding the DocVinc ot the Solvation of
all Men, met in Philadelphia, Mav 25, 1791.
Price ot a (ingle book, bound. 3 Bths of a Dollar,
with good allowance to thole v. ho take cjuantit tes.
August 4. (cptf.)
New-Brunswick
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circumstances of a gentleman
who had undertaken to difpofeot a propor
tion of the tickets in the New-Brunfwick Church
Lottery, having, in his opinion, rendered it incon
venient for him further to proceed in the lalc
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
is are uriexpftledly returned to the Re&or,
Church-Wardens apd Veftry-rm n. This lays the
Managers under the neceflity of further adjourning
the drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth da>
of October next, that they may have time to trans
mit these tickets to the parts of the state where they
ate applied for, and rcceive the returns As there
are but few tickets besides these remaining on
hand, all persons who are disposed to promote the
pious obje6t of this Lottoy, or to take a chance
for the prizestherein, are requested to (upply them
felvcs by the firft of Oflober ; and the gentlemen
appointed to dilpofe of them, are desired to return
those to the Managers which then remain unfold,
to answer the applications of some gentlemen in
the neighbourhood, who are poflponed to this re
foutce for a supply.— And notice is hereby given,
that the tickets not returned to the Managers b\
Ihe eighth day of O&ober, will be conGdeied
at the risk of the holders.
(eptf)
K S,
N. B. Robert Morris, Esq. of New-Biunf
wick, is duly chofcn one of the Managers of the
fa id Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law,
100 Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cambridge Common, MaflTachufctts,
on the afternoon of the 18th ult. a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK, with a flee! clasp, containing
a number of valuable papers, among which were
the following Public Securities, viz.
Maflachufetts State Notes— No. 2,425, dated
December 1, 1782, payable to Thomas Greenwood,
for/. 23 i6j. principal—No. 22.399, dated Ja
nuary 1, 1785, payable to Nathaniel Partridge, for
£ .10 ioj. principal. — No. , dated January
1, 1782, fan army note) payable to Timothy How
ard, for£ . 8 8-V. id. principal.—No. , a Note
(the number, date, and 10 whom payable, not
known) for £. 3 os. %d. principal.—One Indent
Certificate for Four Dollars, and a New-Hamp
shire Certificate for about £. 12 payable to John
and Daniel Jenks ; a 1 so a number of Notes of Hand,
one of which • was for £. 572 given bv Nathan
Bond to Samuel W. Pomeroy (by whom it was en
dowed) dated Ift May, 1792, and pavable on the
1 ith Augnft following; the others were all paya
ble to the Subscriber. The Securities are checked
Ihe different offices from whence they were
lflfued, and the Notes of Hand by the different
signers, they can therefore be of no use to any but
the owner.
The SuhOriber hew-by offers a reward of One
fIuNDRED Dollars to any person or per foils
who has found die fame, and will return them to
him, or leave them wiih the Printer hereof, apd
no quellions will be asked.
Salem, Majfachufelts, Augujl 1, 1792,
TERRITORY OF COLUMBIA
June 28, 1702.
PURSUANT to the last Wifl and Teftamentof
the late Rev. Alexander Wi l l 1 a mson ,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurs
day, the nth of O&ober next,at Georgetown,
on a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved security, 10 bear interest from 1
thedate—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation of the deceased, containing between fix !
and seven hundred acres, the greatest part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very considerable
quantity cf tine meadow ;—Situated about 6 miles
Irom the !ederal City,and the fame diftarice from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy part of the country.
I he improvements are, a very elegant two story
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
Daliage, or entrv, on a floor) and the necessary out
houses. HENRY TOWNSEND,)
, . , Executors.
(en'O) THOMAS JOHNS, \
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA
T U „ E Subfcr,her offc " for Sale, a Mill-Scat on
sockf ock CTeek > deemed by those who have ex
mined it equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter of
a mile of the river Potnwmac, half a mile from
the market house in Georgetown, and one mile
from the 1 rcfidcnt's fquaie, in the city of Waft
mgton—-on tide water, navigable for vefTels of le
vera! hundred buthels burthen.—The stream is
lutfictent ,the year round,to turn four pair of tfnnes
and the tall may be made from 25 to go feet, i!
is ui.neceffary to dwell on the advantages of tuch
a iituation. b
1 ne pu,chaff r may be accommodated with a
,n h a;Tho r ufdt t ;„ o ob J " d a! djoining ihe Mill - Scat '
14 Jul)
George-Town.
A Num^" of LOTS in every situation which
i. may be Hefired in City of Washington
Mo d"" °^ r o i tn , r fa ' C by thc C °n»niir'«ners, on
Monday the Bth day of October next. Une fourth
part of the money to be patd down, tl,e residue
ree equal annual payments, with yearly intcieil
on the whole principal unpaid. mterclt
JOliN M'GANTT, Clerk
June 2, 1 -cjr
136
(eptOi)
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
(epltj
B. STODDERT
lo the CommifTioncrs.
[cptM
Treasury Department,
August 10, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next incluiive, for the fupoly of all Rations
which may be required for the use of the United
States v from the firii day of January to the thirty
firft day of December, both days inclufivc,
at the places, and witiun the diftri&s hereafter
mentioned, vie.
1. At any place or places betwixt Yotk-Town & 1
Carlifle,in the state o* Pt nnfylvania,and Pirtfburgh,
and at Pittiburgh, York-Town and Cariifle.
2. any place or places from Piufburtjh to the
mouih of Big Beaver Creek, and at the mouth of
Big ifeaver Creek.
3. At any place or places from the said mouth to
thp upper falis ol the fa:d Big Beaver, and at the
upper falls.
4. At anyplace or places from the said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places from the said Mahoning
over to the Head Navigation of the River Caya
hoga, and at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any place or places from the said Head Na
vigation to the mouth of ihe laid Rivei Cayahoga,
and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
the Big Beaver Creek to the mouth of the River
Mufkingum, and up the said River to the Tufca
rowas, and at the Tufcarowa.% and thence over to
the Cayahoga River, and thence down the said
River to its mouth.
8. At anyolace or places betwixt the mouth of
the River Mufkmgum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, and at the mouth of the said River Scioto.
9 At any place or places betwixt the mouth of;
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the mouth of the Great Miami, and from thenct
to the Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
10. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
she Grftit Miami, up the laid Miami to and at
Pique Town.
11. At any place or places from Fort Wafbington
to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
place or places from Fort Hamilton 10 Fort St.
Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At any place or places from Fort St. Clair to
Fort Jeffcrfon, and at Foit Jefferfon.
13. At any place or places from Fort Jefferfon to
the Held ot aflion of the 4th of November, 1 yyi ,
and at the said field of a&ion,
14. At anv place or placcs from the said field o?
action to the Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
i,5- At any place or places from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls of the Miami River, which
empties into Lake Erie, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at iis mouth.
16. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said Miami River of Lake Erie toSandufky Lake,
and at Sandufky Lake.
l 7. At any place or places from *he said Sandufky
Lake to the mouth of the River Cayahoga.
18. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said River Cayahoga to Prefque Isle, and at Prefque
Iflc.
19. At any place orplaccs from Prefque I fle to the
dream running into Lake Erie from towards the
Jadaghque Lake, and thence over to and at the
said Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alleg
hany River to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place or places from Prefquelfle toLe
Beuf, and at Le fieuf.
21. At any place or places from I.e Beuf to Fort
Frankhn, and at Fort Franklin, and liom thence
to Putfburgh.
22. At any place or places from theßapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of the Wabafh River, and from
the mouth of the said Wabaih River to the mouth
of the River Ohio.
23. At anv place or places on the Fall fide of the
River Miflillippi, Irom the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the Illionois River.
24. At any place or places on the Eaftfideof the
Mifliflippi, between the mouth of the Ohio and
the River Margot inclufivcly.
25. At any place or places from the said River
Margot to the River Yszous inclusively.
26. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said Wabafh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fort
Kncrx.
27. At any place or places from Fort Knox, up
the said Wabalh, to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
28 At any place or places from Ouittanon,up the
said Wabalh, to the hfad navigation of a bianch
thereof called Little River, and at the said head
navigation of Little River.
29. At any place or places from the said head na
vigation of Little River over to the Miami Village.
30. At anv place or places from the mouth of the
River Teneflee to Occochappo or Bear Creek, on
the said River, incluvvel y.
31. At any place or places from the mouth of the
River Cumberland to Nalhville, on the said River,
and at Nalhville.
And at any place or places within thirtv miles
of said Nalhville to the Southward, Westward or
Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any places, or
within other diftri&s, not fpecificd in these pro
posals, the price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the contr.idoi.
1 he rations to be fupplicd are to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or | of a pound of pork,
Halt a jill of rum, brandy or whiiky,
One quart of fa!t, }
Iwo quai ts of vinegar, (
Two pounds of soap, r P er 100 ratioHS -
One pound ot candles, )
The rations are to be furniflied in such quanti
ties as that there shall at all times, during the laid
term, be fufficient for the consumption of the
troops at each of the said ports, for the space of at
lead three months in advance, in good and whole
some provisions, if the fame shall be required.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofTes
sustained by the depredations ot the enemy, or by
means of the troops ot the United States, ihall bt
paid for at the prices of the articles captured or de-
It ro) cd, on the depositions of two or more credita
ble charadfcers, and the certificate of a comtniftion
ed officer, afceitaining the ciicumftances of the
loss, and thf amount of the articles foi which com
pensation is claimtd.
The contract toi the a,bovc supplies will be made
either ior one year, ov !oi two years, as may appear
Treasury DeparSr^
U
I V be W.vtd at the office of ,& S«™, I
ih.lreafory, until the 13th <ky <*
inclusive, tor the (upply „f ,|| ralj "*<
be required for the use-os the United
.he firft d.y of January to lhe
December 1793, bothdays luclufive, »fSprinefi-trt
■n tne Slate ot MatfathufefU, a „d th( Paftof W,ft'
Point, in the State of Ne«m-York.
The rations to be fupplicd, are to coaUft 0 f .l.
following articles, v\?. ' w
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef, or Jof a p„„ nd of k ,
Hall a jill of rum, brandy or whifltv '
One quart of fait, "
Two quarts ol vinegar, /
Two pounds of soap, rP" 100 ratioos.
One pound of candlcs. )
The proposal, mav be made for both of t h«.
above-mentioned Posts, or feparaiely for
field and Weft-Point yi tor Spring.
Treasury Department,
NDTTPF ' 1 u Auc'usT, 20th, 1 7 Q 2 ,
OTICE 15 hereby g.ven, that propofaU »i||
be received at the office of the Secretary of
?ne freafury until the fourth day ol Oflober
(..du'i'ely, lor the supply of.hr «*£
,nihe
F° R T «* mfrANTRY AND ARTILLERY
' 8460 Shirts
afinSvT 795« Pair of Sock,
hS» , 4608 Blankets
8668 Woolen Overalls 4608 Stocks
9216 Linen Overalls 4608 Stork Clasps
.8376 Pair of Shoes 4608 Parr of Buckle,
FOR the CAVALRY.
360 Caps ,20 Pair of Stockings
560 Coats 1440 Shirts
360 Vcfts 360 Blankets
360 Pair of Leather 360 Stocks
(Breeches 360 Stock Clasps; jlf 0
750 Pair of Boots 12 00 Rifle Shirts, tobe'
360 Pair of Spurs (made ol Ruflia Sheeting
1 he above Clothing to be delivered either in
New-York, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the op.
tion ot the contractor or contra&ors, on or before
the 151 h day of June, 1793.
The piopofals may comprise the whole of the
before-mentioned Clothing, or any one or more
of thecomponent articles ; ro be furnifhed agieca
bly to patterns or specimens, which will be flicwn
at the War Ofnce. Good security will be requir
ed for the punctual and faithful performance of
the contra#. The payment w ill be on the delive
ry of the Clothing, or, if neceffarv, such reasona
ble advances will be made as the Secretary of the
Treasury (Vi?rfl drem expedient.
War Department,
August 6, 1702.
TNFORMATION is hereby given to all ihe
1 Military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are intitled for fix months
of their annual pcifion, from the 4th day ot March
179", and which will become due on the sth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the laid day
by the Commiflioners of the Loans within the
States relpe&ively, under the ufuel regulations,viz.
Every application tor payment niuft be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
ift. The certificate given by the ft ate, fpecifying
th.u the person poffefling the fame is in fad an in
valid, and afceitaining the sum to which as such he
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Ju/l ices of the
county of in the Jlate of and made oath that
he is the fume A. B. to whom the original certificate
in his pojjcffion was given, of which the following is
a copy (the certificate given by the Jlate to be recited)
That he served (regiment, corps or vejfel) «t
the time he was disabled, and that he now resides in
the and county of and has icfded
there for the lafl years, previous to which he re-
Jtded in
In cafe an invalid (hould apply for payment by
an attorney, the said attorney, besides the certifi
cate and oath before recited, must produce a fpc
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the following
form :
I, A. B. of county of if
hereby conflitute and appoint C. D. of my lawful
attorney, to receive in my behalf of pension
for fix months, as an invalid of the United States
from the fourth day of March, one thoufuiid [even
hunted and ninety-two, and ending the fifth day of
September., one thoufandfeven hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and (ealed
in ihe pretence of
| WitneJJes.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminiftraw*
mud be accompanied with legal evidence o, '^ C
vefpe&ive offices, and also of the time the inva i $
died, whose petition they may claim.
By command of the
Prcfidenc of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of H*r.
&T The Printers in the refpeftive States ar?
rcquefted to publilh the above in their i> *P*
ers, for the space of two months.
PLANS
OF the
City of Washington,
Sold bv the Bookse ' u !!, !
DOBSON, CAREY, }OUKG, &
IVAXf£D-T0 Rt-NT,
From the lift of Oaoberne".
Pr A anient H»fi, »« ««
the City.—Enquire of the Editir.
iv 2
<
\