A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHhD WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAY*: fOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 32, of Vol. IV.] Wednesday, September 19. 1792.
FROM THE PENNSYLVANIA GAZETTE,
No. ir.
Observations en the I.eilcrrtf " A F* it
Addrejfed to the YeomwryaJ. the United
AN idea has been circulated, that Congrcjs
have granted exemptions, privileges and
bounties to the New-Jersey Shitty for promoting
t'feful manujadures, and parts of the letters of
" The Farmer" tend Co confirm that mistake.
The freemen of the United States will find, how
ever, on the ftrifteft examination, that no vote,
refolutiou or act, of the federal legi.lature, has
been parted concerning that company, and of
course that no bounty, privilege, exemption or
other advantage has been given by Congress to
them, their workmen or their property, of any
fort or kind. They are indifputab'y liable to
the impolt, tonnage, duty on distilled spirits,
and every other revenue of the United States,
present or future, in like manner and in equal
proportion with any other citizen or owner of
property. They have no direst or indirect ad
vantage under the acts of Congress, but what
every citizen has, who inclines to pursue the
branches they may carry on. It is therefore
tin high duty to the people to undeceive them in a
matter, which might give them discontentment
with a government, under which they are tail
ing a degree of prosperity never before enjoyed
by them, or any other nation.
The whole of the advantages enjoyed by the
New-Jersey manufacturing company are under
a law of that State. This art has exempted
their workmen from military duty, except in
cases of invasion or imminent danger ; but this
will not avail them in the fmallejl degree, because
it exempts only from calls under the laws of
the State, which are now annulled by the mili
tia art of Congress. From militia duty they
are not nor can they be exempted by the legisla
ture of New-Jersey ; and the law of the United
States requires the fame militia services, du
ties, fines, &rc. from each of the New-Jersey
Society and its workmen, as from any other ci
tizen or manufartnrer.
The company have powers relative to canals
and inland navigation, similar to those of the
Sufquehannah and Schuylkill canal companies,
in Pennsylvania, and the Hudson and Mohawk
river companies, in New-York. Corporations
for inland navigation exist also in New-England,
Maryland, Virginia, North and South-Carolina,
though it should seem that " The Farmer's"
objections to this kind of alTbciation is such,
that it is doubtful whether he would confeut to
€ corporation for making a turnpike road, or an
inland navigation, or a religious society or a
public school. The yeomanry of the United
States, however, it is presumed have no such
fanciful objections to these common and neces
sary means of obtaining such desirable and ufe
ful objerts. We have city, town, and borough
corporations in Pennsylvania, and in all the
States, with civil powers to preserve the peace
and order of the focietv, and the health of the
people, and to facilitate the settlement of ac- ]
counts and debts in places where there is ufual-1
ly some dealing and trade. Burlington, Amboy,
Elizabeth-town and Brunfwick, in New- Jersey,
being so incorporated, the legislature of that
State appear to have thought it no great favor
to provide for the eftablifhme/it of the diftrirt
which (hould become the principal feat of the
pianufartory in the fame manner, but probably
deemed it, as it really appears, highly expedient.
It seems to be very wife to have a well regu
lated police in a place where there will be ma
sy ft rangers. The aflembly of New-Jersey
have exhibited a cautious delicacy, worthy of
the legislators of a free and intelligent people,
in exprefly providing, that the place or diftrirt
lha!l not become incorporated, if a majority of
the taxable inhabitants thereof (hall fignify to
the Governor their disTent from, or disapproba
tion of the incorporation—So that if, on ma
ture deliberation, rhcy do not like the powers
of the incorporation, or if they are, on general
principles, again ft any fort of incorporation,
they have ample power to prevent it. Thi c ,
fellow citizens, is the law which 4< The Far
mer" tells you u grants to a few wealthy men
the exclufivt jurifdirtion of fix miles square, and
a variety of unconstitutional privileges." It ic
not a few wealthy men, but all the taxable inhab
itants, who are to be incorporated, and nearly
all of the principal owners of the stock of the
company artually re fide in other town (hips,
counties and States, and a few in foreign coun
tries ; and not being 44 inhabitants" cannot be
members of the territorial corporation, which
is to pofTefs the civil powers. Besides it reallv
is not true, that they a*ie to have 44 cxduf.vt"
jurifdirtion, for they are as much under the
controul of the legislature, the Governor, and
the judiciary of tiie State and of the government
as the United States, as any otSier city or cor
porate town, or any county or .village in New-
Jersey. It is not neceifary to comment upon
the indecorum and abuse for art, design, crimi
nal itvf folly, and breach of duty, which 44 The
Farmer 1 ' bestows upon the government of
N-w- jersey, the Secretary of the Treasury,
and the company, in the very page wherein he
thus amply miflakes and misrepresents their
proceedings. Ke fpeaksof danger from a capi
tal stock of £. 140,000 sterling in the hands of a
great number of persons, when there are and
have been these thirty years several individuals
in the United States, who are each worth as
great a sum. This stock is owned by manufac
turers from abroad, who are employed by the
company, by farmers, merchants, lawyers,
physicians, women, minors, landed men, and
monied men, members of the general govern
ment, officers of the State of New-Jerfev, ci
tizens of various States, and foreigners relident
here and in other countries. Can it be expect
ed, that combinations and devices dangerous to
liberty or honest induitry can take place in so
mixed a society or can it be fuppoled, that such
perversions of the countenance of a State will
be permitted to exist a single month.
The legislature of New-Jersey have exempt
ed the workmen from their State poll-taxes,
upon their persons and occupations ; but it
is not likely that such exemption will be of
any value, because poll taxes are so generally
diiapproved that they are always made very
light in this country, and are seldom or never
imposed on any but single men, and taxes on
occupations are a very trivial part of the re
sources of any State, and the exemption will be
of little avail, because Congress will lay the
principal taxes and they have not given any ex
emption. The great taxes of all known coun
tries are consumption duties, custom-house du
ties and the land tax. All these the workmen
will have to pay, whether laid by the State or
by the United States. But as the finances of
New-Jersey are in a very good situation and dai
ly improving, and it is a State of great ceconomy
in its public expences, its legislature will have
very little occasion to collert money from the
people. The federal customs, duties and taxes
are thole which the citizens of New-Jersey will
principally have to pay, and the workmen, raw
materials, manufartures, lands and tenements
of the workmen and of the company will be as
liable to those customs, duties and taxes as if
the exemption had not been made by the State.
For it is plain that a State art cannot exempt
from taxes of any kind due to the general go-
vernment.
[To be concluded in our next.]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
Mr. Fenno,
IT is true that men have degenerated from what
the ancients were. But one is led to believe,
from the resemblance of temper and condurt dis
covered among certain writers agarnft our govern
ment, that the Athenian blood is not yet all run
out.
The best republics of ancient times were ruined
hy the ambition of men who ftudicd the moll re
fined arts, and pra&ifed the vilest means to krep
the multitude restless and inflamed. Men poflcfT
ing the powers of oratory to govern the aflemblies
of i he people, were jealous of their own authority.
They haled those whom genius made their com
petitors, and merit and virtue their superiors.—
Impatient for honors and employments, of which j
they were unwoithy, they aflumed the office of i
censors on those who poflefled them. Not having
nor being entitled to gain the public confidence,:
they made it their inceflant care to deflroy it j
where it was placed. By arts, alwavs odious,
but always formidable, they inflamed intestine dif
fentions; they diflemmated suspicious and fright
ful tales through ihe state. They had againfl
them, indeed, the severity of the laws, and the
contempt of all good men : but in their favor they
had the pretext of public good, so often made
an instrument >n the hands of ambition and party
enmity; and they had also, what was of ft ill more
avail to obtain their ends, their effrontery and
their insolence. No city had more glory than
Athens—no citizens enjoyed less tranquillity—
none had wiser laws or less regarded them—none
produced more great men or better citizens : yet
none murdered more reputations, or spilt more of
the blood of heroes than Athens. O city ! not
less renowned for tumult than for genius, while we
weep and wonder over thy ruins, may we learn
this inftruftion, th?r even wile and equal laws, un
less flrirtly and ftradily enforced, incite faftiom
to a fiercer aniinofny, and arm them with more
deadly weapons. B.
Foreign Affairs.
TREVES, July ij
Hostilities will not take place
till after the publication of the
manifeflo of the confederated pow
ers. These are the principal articles
of ;hat important at!t—il>. The How
ets declare thai tliey do notdefign to
make war againlt the King nor the
French people, flill less ro ditftate
laws to them ; and that they are on
ly armed against those who, after hav
ing overthrown the empire, threaten
the general fafery of all Europe to
gether.— 2flly. That they enter into
France only to facilitate to the King
the free exercise of his lawful autho
rity, and the means of concerting with
the French pation themeafures which
circumstances, and the return of tran
125
quiliry make necefl'ary.—3d!y. They
render the bodies in authority respon
sible for all attempts which might be
committed in the 1 pirit of fanaiicifm
or otherwise against the Royal Fami
ly, or the persons prescribed by the
seditious.
PARIS, July 16
On the Federation day a circuni
ftance took place while the King was
at the Military School,which is known ,
to very few bat those present. About
1200 national grenadiers, who formed
the escort of the royal family to and
from the Thuilleries, being aflembled
in the court of the military school,
oneof them addrelling his brother sol
diers, told them there was a probabi
lity that some evil ininded pcrfons
might make an attempt upon the
King, he invited them all to swear
mutually to defend their King till
the lafl moment ; the suggestion ope
rated like the ele<ftric spark, they all
to s man knelt down, and with their
, hands uplifted, called to heaven to
witness their oath ; to which they
evei added, that in cafe of any fu
ture danger, they fhouldall repair to
the palace as the common rendezvous,
and make a rampart of their bodies
before their sovereign.—The officer
of the guard informed the King of
this tranfa&ion ; his majesty descend
ed from the falloon to the court yard ;
the tears flood in his eyes ; he could
fay no more than, "My children !
My brave comrades !" He palled a
long the ranks shaking hands with
the foremoft men. An exprtiffive si
lence terminated this affeiXing scene!
The grenadiers kept their word :
when the King joined the National
Aflembly, to ascend the altar, they
formed a line three deep on each fide,
and, contrary to order, even ascended
the altar with the King ; in vain the
federifts and pikemen •itteniptedi to
enter their ranks, claiming equally
the fame honor of approaching their
hereditary representative ; their only
answer was, " the King is confined
to our care ; you cannot pass ;—a se
cond, but ineffectual, attempt was
made to fore etheguard, and toafcend
the altar ; they continued firm, and
never quitted the King until they had
left him fafe in the Thuilleries.
I must mention to you another fact ;
during the reading the oath, the King
kept his usual tone of voice, but when
he came towards the end, he fixed his
eyes on M. Petion, and raising his
voice, spoke these words, so as to be
heard at an immense distance, " Je
Jure de faire refpeifier la Loi*." The
cries of Vive la Nation—Vive le Roi,
were on the instant, and indiscrimi
nately, utrered by every fpedtatur.
* I swear to make the law refpe&ed.
O S T E N D, August 3
Manifesto, fnblijhsd at Brajjeli the
28tb July, 1792, given by the Duke
of Brunswick, Commander in Chief
oj the Austrian and Vruffian Armies.
THEIR Majesties the Emperor and
King of Pruflia, having confided to
me the command of the combined ar
mies which they have caused to be
assembled on the frontiers ofFrance ;
I have refolvrd to announce to the
inhabitants of that kingdom, the mo
tives that have induced these two so
vereigns to this Hep, and the princi
ples by which they are governed there
in.
After having arbitrarily ftipprefl'ed
the rights and prerenfions of che Ger
man Princes in Alsace and Lorraine,
and overset a!l inierior order and
good government ; exercised against
the sacred person of the King and his
augult family, innumerable injuries
and violences, continued from day to
day, and constantly renewed. Those
who have usurped the reins ofgovern
ment have, at length, filled up the!
their iniquities in causing
[Whole No. 554.]
an unjust war to be declared against
his imperial Majelly, and in attack
ing his provinces, fituatedin the Low
Countries. Some of the polil-fiions of
the Germanic empire have been in
volved in this invasion, and others
have elcaped, only by fubniitring to
the imperious menaces of the predo
minating fadtioi!, and of its einiiia-
ries
His Majesty the King of Prufiia, u
niting with his Imperial Majelty, by
the ties of a ftritft and defenlive alli
ance, as well as in his quality of pre
ponderating member of the Gerina
nick body, has not been able to re
fufe marching to the succour of hi*
ally, and co-estates ; and it is in both
these qualities, that he takes upon
hiinfelf the defencc of that monarch
and of Germany.
To these two interests is unired a
nother equally important anil which
the two lovercigiis have much at heart
• —thac of causing the anarchy existing
in the interior of France to cease, to
itay the allaults made upon tlie throne
and the altar ; to ie-eltabli<b the le
gal authority ; to restore to the king
the liberty and fafety of which he
has been deprived, and to place him
in a Htuation to exercise the legiti
mate authority that of right belongs
to him.
Convinced that the found part of
the nation abhors the excefles of a
faction that subdues it, and that the
greater number of the inhabitants
wait with impatience the moment of
auxiliary aid openly to.declare theni
felves against their odious oppreflors,
his inajetly the einperor, and his roa
jelty the king of Prussia, call upon
and invite them to return without de
lay to the paths of reason, of justice,
of order, and of peace these
views the undersigned general and
commander in chief of the two armies
declares as follows.
ift. i hat, led into tills war by ir
refiltable motives, the two courts pro
pole to thenifelves no other objects
than the good of France, without in
tending to enrich thenifelves by means
of their conquelts.
2d. That they do not intend to in
termeddle in the interior affairs of
France, but mean only to deliver the
king, the queen, and the royal fami
ly troin their captivity, and to pro
cure to his mod chriltian majelly the
neceflary security that the king may
be enabled without danger or obsta
cle to call together such convocation
or aflembly as he may think proper,
to alfift in preserving that happiness
to his subjects, which he has promised
them, and to which he will contribute
all that may depend upon him.
3d. The combined armies will pro
tect all cities, burghs, villages, per
sons, and pofleffions, that shall submit
to the king, and they will instantane
ously contribute to the lettering of
order, and a good police throughout
all France.
4th. The National Guard are call
ed upon proviftonally, to watch over
the tranquility of the country, to the
fafety of the persons and effetfis of all
French citizens, until the arrival of
the troops of their imperial and roy
al majesties, or until it (ball be other
ways ordered under pain of being
held personally rel'ponfible—On the
other hand, such of the national
guards as lhall have fought against
(lie troops of the allied courts, and
(hall be taken arms in hand, shall be
treated as enemies, and puni/hed as
rebels to their king and as disturbers
of the public peace.
sth. That the general offieers, su
balterns and soldiers of the troops of
the French line are equally called
upon to return to their ancient feal
ty, and inltantly to submit to the
king their lawful sovereign.
6th. That the members of the de
partments, the diftridt* and municipalities and held equally responsible
on their heads, and with all their
goods and chattels for all crimes,fires,
murders or atrocious that they
may not have used all their endeavors
to prevent within their jurifdidtion :
they are further held provilionally to
continue their functions until his
Molt Christian Majeity fliall be placed
at full liberty to provide ultimately,
or at lead until in his name other
Heps (hall be taken in the interval.
7th. The inhabitants of all cities,
boroughs and villages that lhall dare
to defend themfelven againlt the ar
mies of (heir Imperial and Royal Ma
jellies, or to fire upon them either in
the open field or from any windows,
doors, or openings of their houses,
shall be immediately punished accord
ing to the rigour of the martial law,
and their houses shall be demolished
or burned ; on the contrary, all in
habitants of the said cities, burghs,
or villages, who shall hallen to lub
mit to the king,, by opening their
doors to the troops of their majesties,
shall be instantly placed under their
protection, their persons and effects
shall remain under the fafeguard of
the laws, and care shall be taken to
provide for the security of all and
each one of them.
Bth. The city of Paris and all its
inhabitants without diftintftion, are
held tofubmit immediately, and with
out delay, to the King ; to set the
King at full and entire liberty ; and
to afl'ure to him as well as to the Roy
al Family, that inviolability and ref
pert which fubjedis owe to their fo
vereigu by all the laws of nature and
of nations. Their Imperial and Roy
al Majesties render personally respon
sible of all events upon their heads,
and to be tried in a summary milita
ry way, without the least hope of
pardon, all members of the National
Assembly, the department, the dif
tric I }, the municipality, and the Na
tional guard of Paris, jultices of the
peace, and all others to whom it may
belong. Their said Majesties declar
ing, on the faith and word of an Em
peror and a King, that if thecaftie of
the Thuilleries is either forced or in
fulted ;—that if the least violence—
the least outrage be offered to his
thajefty, the queen, or the royal fa
mily—if immediate measures be not
taken for their l'afety, their prefet
vation, and their liberty, that they
will take an exemplary and ever me
morable vengeance by delivering over
the city of Paris to military execution
and a total subversion, while the guil
ty revolters are receiving the punish
ment they will have merited.
Their imperial and royal majesties
On the contrary protnife to the in
habitants of the city of Paris, that
they will use their good offices with
his mod Christian majesty, to obtain
pardon of all wrongs and errors that
may have been heretofore done, and
to take the moll rigorous measures
to enfuie their persons and effecfts, if
they immediately and exadtly obey
the present injunction.
Finally their Majesties being una
ble to acknowledge any laws as ex
isting in France except such as shall
emanate from the King, enjoying a
perfect liberty, they protest' before
hlSnd against the authenticity of any
declarations which may be made in
the name of his most Christian majes
ty, as long as his sacred person, that
of the queen, and the royal family
shall not be really in fafety In con
sequence their imperial and royal ma
jesties invite and eameftly folici't his
most Christian Majesty to name a eity
in his kingdom the most near to the
frontiers into which he maybe pleas
ed to retire with his Queen and fa
mily under a strong and fuflicient es
cort which shall be lent for that pur
pose, in order that his most christian
majesty may call together the minis
ters and counlellors he may think
proper ; or colledl such convocation
or aflembly as may appear best to him,
to provide for the 1 eltoraiion of good
order by the regular interior admin
-illration of his kingdom.
In a word, I do further declare and
engage myfelf in my own name, and
in my quality above mentioned, to
occaiion to be every where observed
by the troops entrusted to my com
mand, a good and exaift discipline,
promising to treat with mildness and
jnoderation all well inteniioned /"ob
jects that may appear peaceable and
submissive, and to apply force enly
againlt inch as shall be guilty cf re
filtance or ill will.
It is forthefe reafonsthat I require
and exhortall inhabitants of t he king
dom in the ftrongefl and nioft eaniell
manner, not to oppose the march 1 and
operations of the troops that 1 com
mand, but rather to allow thfin free
paflage and all ftichgood will and ai
(illatice as circum dances may require.
Given at my Head Quarters, at
.Coblenz, the 25th July 179 2 -
CHARLES \VI LJ.I A M Ferdinand,
Dukeofßrunfwick Lunenburgh
Bufin'efs in Paris, we hear, was en
tirely at a (land ;—all the shops and]
stores were shut—and upwards of
two hundred thousand citizens ofj
that city were under arms, determi
ned to deferTd thtmfelves and rheirj
liberties, to the last extremity. £ve-
was furnifhed in the'
bert manner with cannon, &c.
As Capt. Tingey has not heard of
any misfortune befalling the Mar
quis de la Fayette, we may conclude,
that valiant patriot soldier is fafe at
the head of his army.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
TO ARISTIDES.
THE " American" to confirm the inference
resulting from the official connexion be
tween the Secretary of State and the Editorof the
National Gazette,appeals to a conformity of the
political principles and views of that officer with
those which are sedulously inculcated in that
Gazette. If this conformity exists, it certainly
affords a strong presumption, in aid of iireft
fa&s, of the operation of his influence or the
complexion of that paper.
The circumstances of conformity allelged,
fall under two head 1 ;; one, That the Secretary
of State was in the origin opposed to thatCon
ftitntion, which it is the evident object 01 the
National Gazette to discredit: the other, That
he has been, and is opposed to thore measures
■which it is the unremited, and it may be laid
the avowed endeavor of that paper to censure
and subvert.
lit contradiction to the firft fuggeflion, Afif
tides cites an authority, which the American ap
pears to have relied upon in support of his afler
tion ; the speech of Mr. Pendleton in the con
vention of Virginia. Let an analysis of this
speech fliew whether it fuppoi ts or contradicts
the aiTertion.
Mr. Pendleton represents a certain letter of
Mr. Jefferfon as containing these particulars—
a strong v/ilh that the firji nine convcntioni may
accept the new constitution because it would
secure the good it contains, which is great and
important. 2d. A wi(h that-the four latest which
ever they lhould be, might refufe to accede to
it till amendments were fecurei. 3d, A caution to
take care that noobje<stion tothe form of the go
vernment (hould produce a schism in the union;
which Mr. Jeiferfon admits to be an incurable
evil.
From this it appears, that, though Mr. Jeff
erfon was of opinion, that the constitution con
tained " great and important good", and was
desirous that the firft nine deliberating States
fhouid consent to it for the fake of preserving
the existence of the union ; yet he had strong
objections to the constitution ; so strong that he
was willing to rilque an ultimate dtjmembement in
an experiment to obtain the alterations which
lie deemed neceffarv.
It the four last deliberating States (particular
ly if they had happened to be States in geographi
cal contiguity, which was very poflible) had re
futed to ratify the constitution, what might not
have been the consequence ? Who knows whe
ther the afTenting States would have been will
ing to have been coerced into the amendments
which the non-aflenting States might have been
disposed to dictate > Calculating the intrigues
and machinations which were to have been ex
pefted to stand in the way, who can fay, if even
two thirds of both houses of CongreVs fliould
have been found willing to propose, that three
fourths of the legislatures, or conventions, in
three fourths of the States would have been
brought to adopt the required amendments ?
Could anything but obje&ions to the constitu
tion of the most feneus kind have iuftified the
hazarding an eventual schism in the union, in
.0 great a degree as would have attended an ad
herence to the advice given by Mr. Jefferfon ?
Can there be any perversion of'truth in affirm
ing, that the person who entertained thole ob
jections was opposed to the constitution !
The opposition which was experienced in
every part of the United States, acknowledged
the necessity and utility of the uniou; and, G
enerally fpeaking,that she constitution contained
many valuable features; contending onlv that
it wanted some eflential alterations to render
it upon the whole a fafe and a good government.
It may be fatisfaftory to review what was
aid 111 the fame convention of Virginia bvfome
H.eftioT mberS ° n the fub -' ea ° f th£ letter in
Mr. Henry (p. i; 90 f the dehates) replies
thus to Mr. Pendleton.—" The honorable 4'-
mTT a 7 ndeavo 0(1 t0 "P l ™ the opinion of
Air. JrJe, fop, our common friend, advice
to adopt tins new government. He withes nine
• tate-, to adopt, and that four States may be
toundl somewhere to rcjeft it—Now, sj ]
if we pur! ue lus advice, what are we to do'
To prefer torm tofubftance > For give me leave.
■blMr' kq ( 'M he n ;. fcfta,uial P ar * of his coun
a. I. \%, s,r, that four States ftouM,r,^?_
'ley te 1 us, that from the most authentic ac
count,, will adopt it. Wh £
- en wil. four States be found to reject, if we
126
adopt it? If wc do, ti.e cdnnfsl of this worthy
and enlightened countryman of our's will tie
thrown away, fee." —Whether this gentleman
argued fmcerely from his impreinon of the true
import of the letter, or made an attempt " tc
pervert Mr. Jefferfon's sentiments," as Arif
tides allinns, must be reserved to his own con
sciousness, and to the candid coultrudtion of an
impartial public.
Mr. Msdifon, in reply to Mr. Henry (p. 122
of the fame debates) expreUes himfelf thus—
" The honorable member, in order to influence
our deciiion, has mentioned the opinion of a ci
tizen, who is an ornament to this itate. When
the name of this diftinguifhecl charatier was in
troduced, I was much surprised. hit come to
this then, that we are not to joilow our own reason ?—
Is it proper to adduce the opinions of retpetta
hle men, not within these walls ? If the opinion
of an important character were to weigh on
this occasion, could we not adduce a character
equally great on our fide ? Are we who (in the
honorable gentleman's opinion) are not to be
guided by an erring world, now to submit to the
opinion of a citizen beyond the Atlantic f I believe
that were that gentleman now on this floor, he
would be for the adoption of this constitution.
Iwifhhis name had never been mentioned—
I wish every thing spoken here relative to his
opinion, may be iupprefled, if - our debates
Ihould be publiflied. I know that the delicacy
of his feelings will be wounded, when he will fee
in print what bas, and may be )aul concerning
him on this occasion. I am in some measure
acquainted with his sentiments on this subject.
It is not right for me to unfold what he has informed
me. But I will venture to assert that the clause
now difculled is notobjefted to by Mr. Jefferfon.
He approves of it, because it enables the govern
ment to carry on its operations, &c."
It is observable that Mr. Madison neither
advocates the accuracy of Mr. Pendleton's com
ment, nor denies the justness of that ot Mr.
Henry—His solicitude appears to be to destroy
the influence of what he impliedly admits to be
the opinion of Mr. Jeferfon, to prefsout of fight
the authority of that opinion, and to get rid of
the lu'ijeet as fa ft as poflible. He confeffes a
knowledge of Mr. Jefferfon's sentiments, but
prudently avoids disclosure ; wrapping the mat
ter in mysterious reserve ; and leaving the pub
lic to this day to conjecture what was the pre
cise import of the sentiments communicated.
Enough however is seen to juftify the conclusi
on, that if the spirit of Mr. Jefferfon's advice
had prevailed with the convention, and full cre
dence had been given to the expected adoption
by New Hampshire—Virgipia,NorthCarolina,
New-York and Fihode-Iftand wjuld have tem
porarily thrown themselves out of the Union.
And whether in that event, they would hane been
at this day reunited to it, or whether there
would be now any union at all is happiiy a spe
culation which need only be pursued to derive
the pleafmg reflection, that the danger was wife
lv avoided.
To understand more accurately what the
American meant in aflerting that Mr. Jefferfon
had been opposed to the constitution, let him
be Compared with himlelf. 11l his hvft paper
he exprefles himfelf thus—" While the consti
tution of the United States was depending be
fore the people of this country for their consi
deration and decision, Mr. Jefferfon being in
France was oppoftd to it, in rone of tts ntoji impor
tant features, and wrote his objections to iome
of his friends in Virginia. He atJitJl went so
far as to discountenance its adoption : thoug he af
terwards recommended it on the ground of expedi
ency in certain contingencies."
From this, it is evident, that so far from de
nying, he has even admitted, that M. Jefferfon,
at onefiage of the bufmefs, recommended the adop
tion of the constitution to his JJlqzv citizens, but
upon a contingency. And this is literally the
fa&, as established by the letter quoted in the
debates of the convention- The advice is to a
dopt if nine dates had not previoully adopted;
to reje<st, if number of states had previous
ly adopted. This is clearly to adopt, or not,
upon a contingency. Thus the authority ap
pealed to by Aiijlides confirms the latter part of
the American's allertion, without contradi&ing
the former part of it.
Arijlides Las not denied, nor do I believe he
will deny—That Mr. Jeiferfon in his early com
munications discountenanced the adoption of
the conilitution in its primitve form. I know
the source of the American*s information. It is
equally authentic and friendly to Mr. Jefferfon-
Allowing for the bare pofiibility of mifapprehen.
fion, it exattly accords with the statement
which has been made of it. If the fa<st fliall be
denied, the source of information will be indi
cated, under due guards for the delicacy of the
proceeding.
This will serve, either to confirm, or, in cafe
of mi (conception, to corre&.
I add that some of* Mr. Jefferfon's objections
to the constitution have not been removed by
the amendments which have been proposed—
Part of his objections went to the flru&ure oi
particular parts of the government.
As to the fccond fart with which the American
corroborates the charge of Mr. Jefferlon's par
ticipation in the views of the National Gazette,
it is in a degree conceded by Arijiidcs. He con
feffes, nay he even boajls Mr. Jefferfon's abhor
rence of some of the leading principles of Mr.
Hamilton's fifcal administration—that is, the
leading principles of those mea'fures which have
provided for the public debt and restored public
credit.
It would have been well, if Ariflides had told
us what those leading principles are, which are
the obje<sts of so much abhorrence to Mr. Tef
ferfon.
The leading principles of Mr. Hamilton's
fifcal administration have been—that the public
debt ought to be provided for, in favor of thole
who, according to the exprels terms of the con
trad, were the true legal proprietors of it;
that it ought to be provided for, in other re
peats, according to the terms of the
except so tar as deviations from it fhon'd be s:-
fentcd to by the creditors, upon tbe conditioi
on ajcei tawed revenues" '"* / " < '
ot interelf, and the redlmn," T"
cpal-that the debts of tie several i?, P ''' C '
to bfc comprized in the providon 1
terms with that of the United siat, , '
render this great operation t0
the oppression of trade and
loans to the government in ea'ies of e
gency, it was neceflarvto inftit,,,/
bank-that indirect taxes
cuiiiftances ofthe country,the, n "'i
of revenue; and that direst taxes o n , '
aro.ded as much and as long as
I avei, from competent onnnrt
knowing Mr. Jeffeifon's idea-, that ° f
hostile to all t;,eie pofitions/exct l '
the laftj and that even in regard to't ■ P '
maxims would oblige the government J™
tice lpeedily to retort to diieft taxes
. 1 aver > moreover, that Mr Merlin's „~v>.
liti°n to the administration of the govermi '/T
nas net been confined to the meafufe, to„S
with the treasury department; but basext*
e , to use the words ofthe Axmcun, « to almoS
all the lmportantmealures of the governrcf r»
The cucptions to the generality of both the'or,
ceding allertions, 1 am content to reft on L,
fignation by Mr. jeflerfon, or bv any Dt r(T
who lhaH foeak from a knowledge of hifw?
ments of tliofe principles of the fifcal dcoar "
n.ent, or of those measures ofthe government
ot any importance which he dots »pp, mc . j ; nfl j
ojily that the designation be precise and cxpli
cit, and come with such marks of authenricirv"
|Son aPt2dt ° thenatUre °'' M
To give an idea of the accuracy with which
Arijlides difcloles Mr. Jeiferfon's opinions I foil
c ite one of his phrases with a (hort observation
He aflerts that a suggestion against Mr. | t fel
ion, which he states, is made on no better fono.
dation than his being opposed to_/» £ of the prin"
ciples of the funding system, of the national
bank, and of certain other measures ofthe Se
cretary ofthe Treafory. It is matter of gene
(ral notoriety, and unquestionable certair.tv
that Mr. Jefferfon has been opposed to tie u'
tional bank in totj, to its conjiitulionahi, arid it
its expediency. With what propriety is it tiiei
said that he has been opposed only to "Jem c
the principles of that institution."
I proceed scow to state the exact tenor ofrt»
advice which Mr. Jefferfon gave to Conjpdsie.
fpedting the transfer of the debt djqe tofooi
to a company of Hollanders. 'After mental.,
an offer which had been made byf'ucbacorapuj'
for the purchase of the debt, he concludes wist
these extraordinary expreffons—" If there isi
danger of the public payments not btiig
I submit whether it may not be better, that &
difconter.ts which would then wife, fliould be Irnu'
ferred from a Court, of will ttt irni Jt
much nled, to the breajls of a private Cmpm)."
The above is ah extract which was "mad*."
from the letter in Feb. 1787. Thedateofit»ii :
not noted, but the original being on tkefflii Sf
the department erf State, will afcertab'thatiaj
all other particulars relating to its Contents.—
The genuineness of the foregoing
be depended upon. ' • "
This letter was the fubjeft of a '
the board of treasury in Feb. 1787. ThattaHl.
treated the idea of the transfer proposed ai I*)#'
unjust and impolitic: vnjujl, becauie tlie natiajr
would contract an engagement whichthert
110 well grounded profpeft of fulfilling;
because a failure itt the payment of intertft,ojj
the debt transierred (which was itmlalk)vi&t'
bhjl all hopes of credit with the citizens
the United Netherlands, in future pressing
gencies of the Union : And gave it as their epij
nion, that it would be advisable f»r Congrdi,
ivit/wut delay, to inllruft their Miniver at tli
Court of France, to forbear giving his faoAiif
to any such transfer.—
Congress agreeing in the ideas of the board,
caused an inftrudtion to that effect to be sent
to Mr. Jeflferfon*. Here then was afoleran ast
of government condemning the principle as un«
just and impolitic.
If* the sentiment contained in the extract
which has been recited, can be v indicated from
the imputation of political proJUgic.—tllnis it
necejfury to art/earn all the ancient notions of jul
tice,andtofubftitute some new-fafhioned fcbemc
of morality in their Head.
I Here is no complicated problem which fop.iif
try may entangle or obscure. Here is a plain
queflion of moral feeling. A government is en
couraged on the express condition of MhaMg' l
projpett of making a due provision for a debt
which it owes, to concur in a transfer oj t a
debt from a nation well abie to bear the incon
veniences of failure or delay, to indivi ua ,
whofc total ruin might have been e . con !"
quence of itj and that upon the tvt(r 'J c C ?V
deration of having need of the good-*" o
creditor-nation, and, with the difhonora
motive, as is clearly implied, of having mO J?
apprehend from the discontents of that na 1 »
than from those of disappointed ana
individuals. Let every honest and ITn P a
mind, consulting its own fpontaneou eni ?. A '
pronounce for itfelf upon the rectitude o\lucn
suggestion. Let every sober and i# n
member of the community decide w e ■'
likely to be a misfortune to the coun rv>
the maxims of the officer at the ea .
treasury department are mater.?- >
from thole of the author of that fu^ge
And let Aripdes prove, if can ' rv t o
Jefferfon gave advice 44 express y c
that which has teen a r cribed to him.
the excentric ramblings of this po c . ve
its station in another revolution, willno pr
that its appearance was not, at on '
the place which has been amgne <>
The American, it ought to he corf '■ i
this instance drawn larger than f c .
*V. r„it i> htre/«"' »" lh ff*"' '
/>•«* <» r,(,<l!uiicn of mcrt tha "» j
/.I far lith'f t<> trrot, though far •■} 4. -
,4 ■ll, r J«,C J: «nah,n,: l poo "fa .J.
1
4fce has done by blending with the fact, the Aid'-
den, though natural comments of an honefl
indignation. But the original itfelf, in its true
size and (hape, without the help of the least ex-|
aggeration, is to the moral eye a deformed and
hideous monster.
" Say, Ariftides! did the character to whom voui
are so partial, imitate, in this cafe., the sublime
virtue of that venerable Athenian, whofc namel
you have alTumed—did he difi'uade his country-!
men from adopting a propolition, becaule tho'
"■ nothing could be more advantageous, nothing
could be more unjuftDid he not rather advise
them to do what was both difadvantageoui aid
vtijti/1 ? May he not, as a public man, discard all
appiehenfioa of ojiracifm, for being the fuperla-'
lively jufit CATULLUS.
P. S. Some additional observations are re
served for another paper. j
Philadelphia, Sept. 19.
the latest INTELLIGENCE from FRANCE.
Friday last th? (hip Ohio, Capt. Kemp,arrived
at New-York iti Jo days from Bristol. By this
veiTel London papers are received to the I fth
August. We have room only for an abflrafl:
of the intereliing information they contain.
Augvjl I. The President of the National
Alfembly informed that body that he had re
ceived by poll the declaration ilTued in the name
of the Duke of Brunfwick.—The Aflembly de
creed by acclamation, " That if the laws of
war are not ftrietly observed, in regard to all
Frenchmen taken with arms in their hands, all
the officers belonging to the enemy, who may
be made prisoners, shall experience a fnnilar
treatment, whatever may be their rank, titles
or diftinftions."
A letter was fentby the King to the Aflembly,
relative to the Manifefto—in which he fays that
it exhibits nothing that can be considered as a
proof of its authenticity. He calls on the na
tion to be united—and profeffes in the warmest
terms his determination to support the C.onfti
tution, Independence and Liberty of France. —
This letter being read in the AfTembly, a mo
tion was made that it should be printed and sent
to the 83 departments. On this motion, the
previous question was called.— u M. Iznaid,
having with difficulty obtained a hearing, said
that the Kind's letter contained only a heap of
falfhoods." The proposal of printing the letter
was rejected.
Augvjl 4. The Envoys of the Commonalty
of Paris, with M. Petion at their head, appeared
at the bar, and M. Petion demanded in the name
of the 48 fe&ions, that the King should be ex
eluded from the Throne, and that the manage
ment of affairs during the interregnum, should
be entrusted to responsible Ministers, until the
of a new King in a National Conven
tion—-M. Petion said the King has always shewn
himfelf an enimy to the people, an enemy to the laws,
and an enemi to France. This excited a violent
agitation in the Aflembly. Several members
dei]red to be heard, but the tumult rendered it
impossible, and the President put an end to the
fitting without any vote being come to upon it.
The Aflembly have passed a decree, in which
fueh temptations are thrown out to induce the
Auftrians and PrufTians to desert their colours,
as it is thought will desolate their armies as soon
as they pitch their tents in France.-—The Duke
of Brunfwick was expected to march on or be
fore the firft of August.—A letter from Paris,
dated 4th Aug. in an English paper, has |his
palTage— u I will not fay that in this fever of
republicanism, the King may riot be declared to
have forfeited his crown ; but I am sure that
republicanism will not endure for a week. 1
hope, however, that they will avoid the dread
ful evil of suspending the King, as I am sure
the fame effect would disband their army."—
Such was the state of things on the 4th August.
About the 28th July the Auftrians made ar.
attack on the French army at Maulde—the
French advance Guard consisting of 6000 men
was attacked by 10,000 ; the Auftrians yielded
the field—they loft 200 men, and great part of
their baggage— and had it not been for the
treachery of two Colonels who deserted, the
vi&ory of the French would have been complete.
M. La Fayette was well, at the head of his ar
my the 28th July.
M. Luckner in a letter to the National AfTem
bly, has expressly denied that he ever acculed
M. La Fayette of an intention to march against
Paris. M. La Fayette in another letter fays,
that such an accusation u is not true"
M. Montefquiou, commander of pne of the
French armies on the Frontiers, has resigned.—
M. Luckner, while at Paris, gave a most de
grading account of the grand armies of France
in refpeft to their numbers and equipments. —
The King of Denmark being invited by the
Kings of Hungary and Pruflia to join the confe
deracy again# France, has declined to accept
of the invitation. Among other observation
in his answer, he r ays, u Denmark has acknow
ledged, as well as the dcccafed Emperor of the
King of Pruflia, the confHtution of France,
since Louis XVlth. has solemnly avowed it."—
The celebrated Paul Jones, it is laid, died in
the utmost poverty—it has been conje&urec
that this was owing to his favoring the anti
revolution party in Paris.
The New-Brunfwick Gazette fays, notwith
standing the many discouraging accounts so fre
quently publllhed from the "VVeftward, the re
cusing business goes on very well. It is con
jectured by some that peace will overtake us
sooner than many imagine.
In the fli'p Amelia, Hill, from London, ar
rived John Penn, E r q. and his Lady; Andrew
Allen, Esq. with his four daughters and three
sons; together with the domestics of both fami
lies making 24 paflengers.
TI eDafliwood Packet from England brought
a Diploma from the University of Edinburgh,
conferring the Degree of Doctor of Laws on the
Hon. John Jay, Chief Justice of tlie United
States.
/ ctrreffmdthl observes, that lie" conceives it
/would be highly becoming in the people of the
I United State*:, to join as with one voice, in t
a:iy of thanksgiving tot/re Supreme , for the mer
cies he has so abundantly bellowed on them,
of peace and general frefperity ; and to implore,
that he may avert the evils which are meditated
iytht Despots of Europe, against their fellow men,
of the French and Pohjli nations, and that these
pefpots and all mankind, may be convinced in
Uae time, of their folly and wickedness.
SHIP NEWS
ARIUVc.L) dt the FORT oj PHILADELPHIA
Ship Harmony, Ofman, London
3oph;a, Kerr, Bristol
Bacchus, Vanneman, Oporto
Citizen, Gardiner, Cadiz
General Wailiington, Davis, Dublin
Amelia, Hill, London
Baring, Tingey, Calcutta and Oftend
Harriet, Ellifon, Londonderry
Suilex, Atkins, Havre-de-Grace
Giafgow,
Brig Muntos,
Cremona,
Williams,
Parker,
Barras,
In the Ship General Washington, came paflen
gers, Mr. Knox, Consul of the United States,
for Dublin, &:c. MelTrs. Holmes, Preston, Rick
ets, McLaughlin, Anderfon, and twenty-five
others.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, t2 /" >
3 per Cents, 1 3/ \
Deferred, *376
Full /hares Bank U. S. 49 per cent. prem.
j (hares, 60
(£?* Various intcrejlivg fcleflions and communica
ions are unavoidably/ omitted.
The SUBSCRIBERS to the
Universal Tontine
Are informed, that a general meeting i s lo |, e held
at the State-House id this city, on Saturday the 3d
day of Movember next, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
agreeably to the sixth article of their aifociation.
By order of the Agents,
EBENEZER HAZARD, See'ry.
Philadelphia, Sept. 15, 1703. ( f pi 3 N)
General Poft-Office.
Phi lads. l ph i a, Sept. 10,1792.
PROPOSALS will be received at this Office
until the fifteenth day of November next, in
clusively, for carrying the Mails of the United
States on the following Post Roads, from the firft
day of January next, until the firft day of June,
*794-
In Massachusetts and New-Hampshire.
1. From Wijcaffet to Portland in the diftri&of
Maine : The mail to leave Wifcaflet every Tuesday
by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Port
land the nrxt day by one in the afternoon :—Re
turning, to leave Portland every Thursday by fix
in the morning, and arrive at Wifcallct the next
day by one in the afternoon.
2. From Portland to Portsmouth : The mail to
leave Portland every Monday and Thursday by
fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Ports
mouth every Tuesday and Friday by ten in the
forenoon : — Returning, to leave Portsmouth eve
ry and Friday at one in the afternoon,
and arrive at Portland on Wedncfday and Satur
day by fix in the evening.
3. From Portsmouth to Bojlon : From November
firft to May firft, the mail to leave Portsmouth
every Tuesday and Friday, at two o'clock in the
afrernnoon, and arrive at Boft»n on Wedncfday
and Saturday by fix in the evening : — Returning,
to leave Boston every Monday and Thuifday, by
fix in the morning, and arrive at Portsmouth on
Tuesday and Friday by ten in the forenoon : —And
from May firft to November firft, the mail to leave
Poitfmouth every Tuesday, Thursday and Satur
day v by four in the morning, and arrive at Boston
the fame days by fix in the evening : — Returning,
to leave Boston every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, by four in the morning, and arrive at
Poitfmouth the fame days by fix in the evening.
In Massachusetts 1 , Connecticut and
NEW-York
4. From Bcjlon,by WorctJUr, Springjield,Hartford,
Midd/etowv, and New-Haven, to New-York : From
November fiift to May firft, the mail to leave Bos
on every Monday and Thursday, at one o'clock
in the afternoon ; and arrive at New-York every
Saturday and Wtdnefday (the Gxth clay from its
departure) by ten in the forenoon : Returning, to
leave New-York every Monday and Thursday,
at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Bof
lon every Saturday and Wednesday, by ten in the
forenoon : And from May firft to November firftj
the mail to ltave Boston every Monday, Wcdnef
day and Fiiday, by three o'clock in the morning,
arrive at New-York every Thursday, Satur
day and Tuesday (the fourth day from its de
parture) by eleven in the forenoon : Returning, to
ieave New-Yofk every Monday, Wedncfdayand
Friday, by one o'clock in th<? afternoon, and ar
rive at Boston every Thursday, Saturday and
Tuefdav, bv fix in the evening.
In New-York, New-Jersey and Psnnsyl-
v ANI A,
5. Between New-York, (by Newark and Eliza
bethtown) and Philadelphia, every day in the week,
Sunday excepted : The mails to leave Mew-York
t noon, and Philadelphia at one o'slock in the
ifiernoon; and arrive at Philadelphia and New
York refpeflivelv, the next day after their de
parture, by ten in the forenoon ; excepting the
mails of Saturday, which arc to arrive at the fame
hour on Monday.
In Pennsylvania avd M a a y l a n d
6. From Philadelphia to Ba'timore : The mail to
leave Philadelphia evciy Monday, Wednefdaj
and Friday, at noon, and arrive at Baltimore each
Succeeding day by noon : Returning, to leave
Baltimore every Monday, Wednefdayand Friday,
by four o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Phi
ladelphia each fuccceding day by eleven in the
lorenoon.
7. From Baltimore to Alexandria: The mail to
leave Baltimore evciv Tueldav, Thursday and Sa
turday, at one o'clock in the afternoon, and airive
it Alexandria each fuccerding day by eight in the
morning; Returning, to leave Alexandria every
127
Moncay, Wednesday and Friday by four o'clock
n the afternoon, and arrive at Baltimore on Tues
day, Thurlday and Saturday by ten in the fore
nooa
8. From Alexandria to Richmond, Peter/burg, Suf
folk and Portjmouth : The mail to leave A'exfan
dria eveiy Monday, Wednesday and Friday, at
nine o'clock in ihe morning, andairive at Rich
mond every Tuesday, Thursday and Sainrday,
by fix in he evening ; at Peteifburg, cveiy Wed
nesday, Friday and Monday at ten in the totenoon ;
at Suffolk everv Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday
by fix in the afternoon ; and at Portfmouih every
Friday, Monday and Wednesday, by ten in the
forenoon : Returning, to leave Portsmouth the
fame Fiiday, Monday and Wednesday, at one
o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Suffolk the
fame days by seven in the evening ; and at Peteif
burgthe next Monday, Wednesday tfrid Friday by
eleve-n in the forenoon; leave Petersburg the fame
days at two in the afternoon, and arrive at Rich
mond the fame days by fix in the evening : leave
Richmond on Turfday, Thursday and Saturday,
by four in the morning, and arrive at Aiexrndria
the next Wednesday, Fuday and Monday, by three
in the afternoon.
Giafgow
St. Vincents
Antigua
9. From Richmond, by IVilliamfburg, York-Town
and Hampton, to Norjo/k. The mail to leave Rich
mond every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, by
four o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Norfolk
on each succeeding day, by fiv« in the :
Returning, to leave Norfolk eveiy Wecinefday,
Friday and Monday, by fix in the morning, and
arrive at Richmond each succeeding day, by fix in
the evening.
In Virginia and Nor th-Carol i n a
10. From Peterfourg, by Halifax, Tatborough and
Smithjield, to Fayetteville.' The mail to leave Peterf
j burg every Friday, at one o'clock in the afternoon,
and arrive at Fayetteville the next Monday, by
eight in the evening : Returning, to leave Fayettc
jville every Tuesday, by four in the morning, and
arrive at Petcrfburg the next Friday, by eleven in
the forenoon.
In North andStovrti Carolina and Georgia
11. From Fayetteville, by Cheraw Court-
House, Gamden, Columbia and Cambiidge, to
Augusta, The mail to leave Fayetteville every
Tuesday, by four in the morning, reach Camden
jthc next day by five in the afternoon, and arrive
at Augusta the next Saturday by noon: Return
ing to leave Augusta every Thursday, at five in the
morning, arrive at Camden the next Sunday by
five in the morning, and at Fayetteville the next
Monday, by eight 111 the evening.
12. From Augvjla to Savannah. The mail to
leave Augusta every Saturday, at one o'clock in the
afternoon, and arrive at Savannah the next Mon
day morning by ten : Returning, to leave Savan
nah every Monday, at two o'clock in the after
noon, and arrive at Augusta the next Wednesday,
by five in the afternoon.
13 From Camden to Statefburg. The mail to
leave Camden every Thursday by lour in the
morning, and arrive at Statefburg by eight : Re
turning, to leave Statefburg every Saturday, at two
in the afternoon, and arrive at Camden by fix.
In Massachusetts, Rhode-Island and Con -
14. From Bojlon to Providence. The mail to
leave Boston every Monday and Thursday* bv fix
in ihe morning, and arrive the fame days at Pro
vidence, by five in the afternoon : Returning, to
leave Providence every Wednesday and Saturday,
by fix in the morning, and arrive the fame days
at Boston, by five in the afternoon.
Persons offering proposals for this contrast,
are desired also to state the terms on which they
will carry the mail between Boston and Provi
dence, three times a week, and every day in the
week (Sunday excepted ) in cafe a stage waggon
should run so often between those two places.
15. From Providence, by Norwich, to Hartford.
The mail to leave Providence every Tuesday and
Friday, by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive
at Norwich the fame days, and at Hartford on
Wednesday and Saturday, by five in the afternoon :
Returning, to leave Hartford every Monday and
Thuifday, at seven in the morning, arrive at Nor
wich the fame days, and at Providence on Tuel
day aad Friday, by five in the afternoon.
({3** Persons offering proposals for this contrail,
are also desired to state the terms on which they
will carry the mail between Piovidence and Hart
ford three times a week, if a ilage waggon Ihould
run so often between those two places.
16. From New-London to Newport, thence by
Brijlol and Warren to Providence, thence by Green
wich to Newport, and from Newport to New-London.
The mail to leave New-London every Tuesday,
at two in the afternoon, and arrive at Newport the
next day by fix in the evening ; leave Newport
every Friday at eight in the morning, and arrive
at Providence the fame day by fix in the evening ;
leave Providence on Saturday at eight in the morn
ing, and palling through Greenwich, arrive at
Newport the fame day by fix in the evening ; leave
Newport the next Monday at eight in the morn
ing, and arrive at New-London the next day by
ten in the forenoon- ,
17. From New-Haven to New-London : The mail
to leave New-Haven every Monday, at eight in
the morning, and arrive at New-London every
Tuesday by ten in the forenoon :—Returning, to
leave New-London every Tuesday at two o'clock
in the afternoon, and arrive at New-Haven every
Wednesday afternoon by fix.
18. From Middletown to New-London. The mail
to leave Middletown, from November firft to May
fuft, every Thursday morning, and from May to
November, every Friday morning, V)y eight
o'clock ; and arrive at New-London by fix in the
♦evening of the day of its departure : Returning,
to leave New-London each next fucceedinp day bv
eight in the morning, and arrive at Middletown
; by tix in the evening
lq. Between *he city of New-Yotk (bv Kings
bridJty Poughkccfijie, and the city of Hudjon) and
Albany. The earners, with the mails, to leave
New-Yo k and Albany tverv Monday and Tburf
day, by four in the morning, meet, and return to
'■ach plaee on Wednesday and Saturday, by fix in
! t he evening.
20. Fiom Phi/adelp"•by Lancojler, York-town,
Carlijle % Shipper)/burg, Chamberjburg, Bedford and
Guevfburg 10 Pittfburg The mail to leave Phila
delphia 1 very at noon, and arrive at Pittf
burg the next Fiiday by noon ; remain there not
In Virginia,
NECTICUT
In New-York.
In Pen n sylvania
Jtfs tJiori four, ndr more than fix hours, and return
to Philadelphia the following Friday by noon.
In the State of Delaware
21. From Wilmington, by New-Cajile, Qavtwch
Bridge, and. Duck Creek, to Dover. The maii i
leave Wilmington every Monday afternoon, t.
five o'clock (or as soon as the mail from Philade.
phia is received) and arrive at Dover by five in the
evening of Tuesday : Returning, to leave Dove:
< very Wrdnefdav morning by. five o'clock, anti
arrive at Wilmington by leven in the evening ot
the fame day.
In Delaware and Maryland
22. From Chntiiana liridgc, by Middletown,
Warwick and George-town Cross-Roads, toChel
ter-town, and thence to liafton. The mail to
leave Christiana Bridge every Monday afternoon;
by fix o'clock (or as loon as the mail from Phila
delphia is received) and arrive at Lafton by fix in
the evening of Tuesday : Returning, to leave Eaf
ton every Wednesday morning by live o'clock,
and arrive at Chrilliana Bridge in the evening ot
the fame day, by eight o'clock.
(J3"* Persons offering proposals for carrying
thii mail, are desired to llate the terms on whieli
they will carry it irom May firft to November fir ft,
by leaving Philadelphia every Monday at half pa ft
nine, A. M. and reaching Eaiion the next day by
lour, P. M.—and returning, leave Eafton every
Wednelday by four, A. M. and arrive at Philadel
phia the next day by noon : And perform the
fame tour; during the other half of the year, be
tween half past nine o'clock of every Monday, and
noon of the next Saturday. And also their term#
for carrying an additional mail between Philadel
phia and Cheftertown, leaving Philadelphia every
Wednesday and Friday at half past nine, A. M.
and returning the fourth day after by noon.
23. From Baltimore to Annapolis. The mail t®
leave Baltimore every Monday and Friday, at
eight in the morning, and arrive at Annapolis the
fame days by five in the afternoon : Returning, to
leave Annapolis every Tuesday and Saturday by
eight in the morning, and arrive at Baltimore the
fame days by five in the afternoon.
In Virginia
24. From Suffolk, by Edcnton, PlymouthyWaJhivg-*
tot/ and Newlern, to Wilmington : The mail to leave
> Suffolk every Wednefdav at four o'clock in the
morning, and arrive at Wilmington the next Sa
turday, by fix in the evening : Returning, to
leave Wilmington every Monday by four in the
morning, and airive at Suffolk the next Thursday
by fix in the evening.
In North-Carolina
25. From Halifax by Blountfville, WillianJlown t
and Daileys, to Plymouth, once in two weeks:—The
mail to leave Halifax every other Monday by five
o'clock in the morning, and ariive at Plymouth
the next day by fix in the evening : Returning, to
lecve Plymouth the next Thursday by five in the
morning, and arrive at Halifax on Friday by five
in the evening.
Note 1. If during the continuance of the con
trails here proposed, any other times of arrival
and departure of the mails (hould become neces
sary, to prcferve a proper connexion with other
mails, the contractors are to conform to any ar
rangement which for that purpose (hall be made
by the Post-Master General, such arrangement not
leflcning the number of hours above allowed for
carrying the mails refpe&ively, without their con
sent.
2. A convenient time not exceeding half ail
hour, for opening and doling a mail is to be al
lowed at each Pod-Office, at which the time 06
its arrival and departure is not herein fpecified.
3. For every half hour's delay (unavoidable
accidents excepted) in arriving after the times pre
ferred in any contraCt, the contractor to forfeit
one dollar ; and for the non-performance of a trip,
double the sum which the value of one trip shall
bear to the value of the whole number of trips to
be performed.
4. The mail may be carried on any of the post
roads herein described, either in stage waggons or
on horses : but when the state of the roads pie
vents travelling in waggons with the nec«ffary ex
pedition, the mails are to be carried on horses.-—
Every mail-ilage must have in it a box in which
the mail is invariably to becarried, under lock.,
and key.
5. News-papers, as well as letters, are to be
sent in the mails : and if any contractor would
wish to be authorize! to carry news-papers, other
than those conveyed in the mail (agreeably to the
22d seCtion of the poft-office law) he must, in his
propofais, state the respeCtive sums for which he
will carry the mails with and without the emolu
ments which may arise from such separate carriage
of news-papers.
NEW POST ROADS,
In New-York, Massachusetts & Vermont*
An cxtenfion ot the Post roads having been de
(iredjfrom ConnojorharrietoWhites-town, and thence
to- Kanandaiqua, in the state of New-York ; from
Stockbridge to Bennington, in the ftatesof Maflachu
fetts and Vermont; and from Rutland to Windjor»
and Rutland to Fairhavcn y in Vermont : Proposals
for carrying mails on those routs, (at the expense
of the contractors) will be received at the General
Poft-Office, until the fifteenth day of November
next inclusively.—Persons offering such proposals*
must state the days and hours when they will re
ceive and deliver the mails at each place here
mentioned, and the length of time (which cannot
exceed eight years) for which they will contract.
The contractors, respeCtively, will have the ex
clusive privilege of carrying letters and packets oa
these roads, for hire ; and be authorised to re
ceive, to their own use, all the postages which shall
arise on letters, packets and newspapers by them
carried, at the rates established by law : but must
carry, free of postage, such leiteTS and packets as
by law are, or shall be dedarcd frte.
For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in delivering a mail, after the time a
greed on, the contractor to forfeit one dollar;
and for the non-performance of a trip, one dollar
for eveiy ten miles distance, as far as the failure
extends.
The persons whom the contra&ors (hall defig
na<e for Postmasters, on thcfe routes, —previous to
their a&ing as such, must be approved by the Post-
Master General, and take the oaths required byr
law. They ate to agree for their compensations
with the contractors, to whom alone they are to
account for all the pillages they (hall reccivc.
The fame oaths mull be taken by the contratioxs
and their riders who carry the mails.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Fost-Mastex-Generai.plans
or THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksxllkrs,
DOBSON, CAREY, yOUNG, £# CBVKSIIANK.
Certificates Loft.
MI SSI NT., Five New-Jerfty Certificates, signed
by Si fat Condiß, viz.
No. 740 for £. 75 0 0
1978 Ji 12 9
7 1 .5 100
3482 1 4
829 o 12 9
The fubferiber supposes the above Certificates
are stolen. Whoever will discover the Thief, or
Certificates, and leave information at the Treasury
or Loan-Office in New-Jersey, or in the County
Collector's Office at Morris-Town, (hall be hand
fomefy rewarded by
Mo*! is-Town,
New- }crfey\ July 12, 1792.
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY.
Thomas james, wax chandler,
from London, refpe&fiilly informs the public
that he has elbbliflied a Manufadlory of the above
branch, at the upper end of Mulberry-Street,New-
Yoik, where Merchants, Captains of Vcffels,
Druggills, and Families, may be supplied with
excellent and pure White Wax Candles, White
Wax in Cakes, Tapirs, Wax'd Lamp Wicks,
Flambeaux, See. warranted erjual to any made in
London, and twenty per cent, cheaper.
Orders in thisandthe adjacent States, received
bv Mr. John Gooosvt, Bridge-Street, Mr.
.William Frorishkr, Fletcher-Stteet, and at
the Manufactory, where Camples may be seen.
N. B. Bees-Wax taken in payment,or bleached
on moderate terms.
New-York, July ig, 1792
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
The Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begsleave to offer
his services to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to Fa
vor him with thrir bufinefy, may depend upon
having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boft on, or any other
part of the United States will be ftriftly attend
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
May 2
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON, ar.d other
Booksellers in Philadelphia,
A Collection of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS; seleCted from different
Authors, aod published by Older of the Con.
vention holding the Dotlrine of the Salvation ol
met in Philadelphia, May 25, 1791.
Price of a Tingle book, bound, 3-Bih»of a Dollar,
with good allowance to those who take quantities,
August 4. (cptf.)
New-Brunswick
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circumstances of a gentleman
who had undertaken tn dispose of a propor
tion of the tickets in the New-Brunfwick Church
Lottery, having, in his opinion, rendered it incon
venient for him further to proceed in the sale
thereof, between rleven and twelve hundred tick
ets are unexpectedly returned to the ReCtor,
Church-Wardens and Veftiy-nun. This lays the
M-inagers under the nectflity of further adjourning
the drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of October next, that they mav have time to tranf.
Mit thefc tickets to the parts of the state where they
aieapplied for, and teeeive the returns As there
are but few tickets besides these remaining on
hand, all persons who are disposed to promote the
pious objeCt of this Lottery, or to take a chance
for the pi izes therein, are requeftcd to supply them
selves by the fiift of October; and the gentlemen
appointed to dispose of them, are desired to return
those to the Managers which then remain unfold,
to answer the applications of some gentlemen in
the neighbourhood, who are postponed to this re
source for a supply.— And notice is herrhy given,
that the tickets not returned to the Managers by
the eighth day of OCtober, will be confidcred as
.at the rtfk of the holders.
N. B. Robert Morris, Esq. of New-Brunf
wick, is duly chofcn one of the Managers of the
said Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law. (ep.Oi)
To be pMifhed by Subscription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old C/oyi^re^j }
From September 1774, l 0 March 1789;—
Ao authentic and original collection of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, See
written during the late war ;
And extracts from the
SECRET JOURNALS.
( For particulars, Jee Profofuls at large.)
Subscriptions are rccSivcd by the principal
Booklcllcru, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, A' 0.26, Pear-Strut, Philadelphia.
Pr The Inoex and Title-Page Ji>r the
Third Volume of Ms Gazette , arc now ready to ie
delivered to those who intend to hind that Volutin.
£3" The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars her
er. JioC—flw half to be patdal the time offhbfcribing.
100 Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cambridge Common, Maffachtfetts,
on the atternoon of the aßth ult. a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK, with a ftctl clalp, containing
a number of valuabU papers, among which were
the following Public Securities, \iz.
Maflacliufctts State Notes- No. 2.405, dated
December 1, 1782, payable to Thomas Gremumd,
for /.•>< ifij. principal—No. 22.399, Ja
nuary 1, .785, payable to Nathaniel Partridge, tor
£. to IOJ. principal.—No. , dated January
i, 1782, fan army note) payable to Tmtthy How
ard, tor £ . 8 Bf. id. principal.—No. , a Note
(the number, date, and to whom payable, not
known) for £. 3 OS. 3d. principal.—One Indent
Certificate for Four Dollars, and a N<-w-Hamp~
Ihire Certificate for about £. 12 payable to John
ind Daniel Jenks ; also a number of Notes of Hand,
~n e of which was for £. 572 given by Nathan
Bond to Samuel IV. Pomroy (by whom it was en.
dorfed) daied iff May, 1792, and payable on the
11th August following; the others were all paya
ble to the Subscriber. The Securities arc checked
it the different offices from whence ihey were
ilTued, and the Notes of Hand by the different,
signers, they can therelorc be ot no use to any but
the owner.
JOSEPH LEWIS.
(iaw7w)
The Subscriber hereby offers a reward of One
Hu NDR 10 Dol l ars to any person or persons
who has found the fame, and will return them to
him, or leave them with the Printer hereof, and
uo qucftions will be allied.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Sa!em, Mafia chufetts, Augujl 1, 1792. («ptf)
A Valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
containing 213 acres, whereof 47 are wood
land, 30 meadow, arid 20 more may be made ; the
cleared land ts under good fence, and is well |
adapted to grass, and there being so much meadow,
a large ilock may be raised : it is alio natural to
wheat, and a proper-Attention to a well-kept stock,
will much improve its quality, and be the most
profitable : it has a young orchard of 200 apple
trees, a variety of peach and cheriy trees, and a
large garden. There are on the premises a hand
fomc two story stone house and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza; also, a good barn, with stabling,
cow-house, granary, waggon-house, work-shop,
and fmoak-houfe. The fuuation is high, pleasant,
and healthy, and affords lome very agreeable pro
fpe&s, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the main road to New-York, about a mile and a
half irom Princeton, New-Jersey, and 43 from
;his city. The title was examined and approved
by eminent council before the fubferiber purchased.
For further particulars apply to the fubferiber, at
No. 141, South Second-street, or at No. 81, South
Water-street, Philadelphia.
[ep 7 w]
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
N. B. Stock for the farm may be had of the pre.
sent tenant.
, Also, to be Sold, and entered immediately,
A two-story Br rk HOUSE and BAKE-HOUSE
in Arch-street, No. 23, 16 feet two Inchcs in front,
and 102 feet in depth. Apply as above.
June 28, 1799.
PURSUANT to the last Will and Teftatnentof
Che late Rev. Alixander Wilmamson,
deceafcd, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurl.
day, the Inh of October next,at Gf.org Brow n,
on a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved fecurity.tobear inlereft from
the date—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Haves;, the late dwelling
plantation ot the dcceafed, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatea part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very considerable
quantity r.l fine meadow Situated about 6 miles
from the Federal City,and the fame dilbnee from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
rematkable healthy part of the country.
The improvements are, a very elegant two story
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
uaflage, or entry, on a floor) and the neceflary out
houles. HENRY TOWNSEND,)
BENJ. SIODDERT, £ Executors.
(epiO) THOMAS JOHNS, )
TJu LY 6, 1 7Q3.
HE Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-Seat on
Rock. Creek, deemed by those who have ex
imned it, equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter of
a mile of the river Potowmas, half a mile from
the market house in Georgetown, and one mile
from'he President's fquaie, in the city of Wafh
•ngton—oll tide water, navigable for vclfels of se
veral hundred bulhels burthen— The stream is
(urticiem.the year round,to turn fnur pair of (tones,
and the tall may be made from 25 to 30 feet. It
IS unnecessary to dwell on the advantages of such
a fttuation.
1 fie purchaser may be accommodated with a
few hundred acres of land adjoining the Mill-Seal
if lhat should be an object,
(ppgm 14Jul)
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A N ALPHABETICAL LIST of the Duties
j X. payable on all Goods, Wares and Merchan
dise .reported into the United States ; exhibiting
ih. Raus payable on those imported in Ships or
VelTcls o the United States, and in Foreign Ship,
"V £ l ""l 1 " 1 "": ,he additional Duties te
the rcfpcftive Articles »ie liable.
also,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold—
graduaud according to Law-Blank Mamhfts-
And Blanks .or the various Powers of Attorney
i'?l » y tr,n^ ln H Business at the Trealuiy o.
at the Bank of the United States.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG,
Of the very si,(. rjual.ty, and l„eft intonation
from Canton, „a New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chcfnut and Market Streets.
TO BE SOLD,
(And poffeflion given immediately)
July 17
TERRITORY or COLUMBIA.
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
NEW TEAS.
128
Treasury Department,
August 10, 1792.
XTOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
IN be received at the office oV ihe Secretary ol
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next inclusive, for the lupply ot all Rations
which may be required for trte use of the United
States, trom the firft day of January to the thirty
fir (I day of December. 1793, bo:h days inclusive,.
jt the places, and within the diftritts hereaker^
mentioned, viz.
1. At any place or places betwixtYoik-Town ic
Cariiflc.inthc state of Prnnfylvania.and Pmfburgh,
and at Pmfburgh, York-Town and Carlisle.
2. At any place or places from Pittfturgh to the
mouih of Big Beaver Creek, and at the mouth ol
Big Beaver Creek.
At any place or places from the said mouth to
rhe upper falls olthe said Big Beaver, and at the
uppei falls.
4. At anyplace or places from the said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places from the said Mahoning
ove' to the Head Navigation of the River Caya
hoga, and at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any place or places from the said Head Na
vigation to the mouth of the said River Cayahoga,
and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt the mouth ofj
the Big Beaver Creek to the mouth of the River
Mufkingum, and up ihe said River 10 the Tufca
rowas, and at the Tufcarowas, and thence over to
the Cayahoga River, and thence down the said
River 10 its mouth.
8. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
the River Mufkingum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, and at the mouth of the said River Scioto.
9. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the mouth of the Great Miami, and from thence
to the Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the |
said Rapids.
10. At any place or places brtwixt the mouth of
the Great Miami, up the said Miami to and at
Pique Town.
11. At any place or places from Fort Walhington
to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
place or places from Fort Hamilton to Fort St.
Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At anv place or places from Fort St. Clair to
Fort Jefferfon, and at Fort Jifferfon.
13. At any place or places from Fortjefferfon to
the field ot a6*ion of the 4th of November, t 791,
land at the said fie!d of action.
14. At anv place or places from the said field of
action to the Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
15. At any place or places from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls of the Miami River, which
empties into Lake Erie, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at its mouth.
16. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said Miami River of Lake Erie toSandufky Lake,
and at Sandufky Lake.
1 7. At any place or places from the said Sanauflcy
Lake to the mouth of the River Cayahoga.
18. At anv place or places from the mouth of the
said River Cayahoga to Prefque Isle, and at Prcfque
I He.
19. At any place orplaces fromPrefque Isle to the
stream running; into Lake Erie from towards the
Jadaghque Lake, and thence over to and at the
said Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alleg
hany River to Fort Franklin.
(eptf)
20. At any place or places fromPrefquelfle toLe
Beuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or places from I.c Beuf to Fort
Frankl'n, and at Fort Franklin, and from thence
;o Pittsburgh
22. At any place or places from theßapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of the Wabafh River, and from
the mouth of the said Wabafh River to the mouth
of the River Ohio.
23. At anv placc or placcs on the F.aft fide of the
River Mifliflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the Illionots River.
24. At any place or places on the Eaftfideof the
Mifliflippi, between the mouth of the Ohio and
the River Margot inclusively.
25. At ony place or placcs from the said River
Margot to the River Yazous inclusively.
26. At any place or places from the mouth of the
'aid Wabafh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fort
Knox.
*7. At anyplace or places from Fort Knox, up
the laid Wabalh, to Ouittanon,and at Ouittanon.
28. At any place or places from Ouittanon,up the
said Wabafh, to the head navigation of a branch
thereof called Little River, and at the said head
navigation of Little River.
29. At any place or places from the said head na
vigation of Little River over to the Miami Village.
30. At any place or places from the mouth of the
River Tenefftc to Occochappo or Bear Cieek, on
the said Rivet, inclusively.
31. At any place or placesfrom the mouth of the
River Cumberland to Nashville, on the said River,
and at Nashville.
And at any place or places within thirty miles
of said Nashville to the Southward, Wcftward or
Northward thereof.
Should any ration® be required at any placcs, or
within other diftri&s, not Ipecified in these pro
posals, the price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the cootrattoi.
The rations to be supplied ire to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of pork*
Hall a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quaits of vinegar, f
Two pounds of soap, r P cr 100 ratlons *
One pound of candles, )
B. STODDERT.
The rations arc to be furnifhed in such quanti
ties as that there (hall at all times, during the laid
term, be fufficient for the consumption of the
troops at each of the fa;d polls, for the space of at
least three months in advance, in good and whole
some provisions, if the fame shall be required.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all loflfes
sustained by the depredations of the enemy, or by
means of the troops of the United States, lhall be
paid tor at the prices of the articles caotured or de
ltro}ed, on the depofiiions of two or more credita
ble characters, and the certificate of a commiflion
ed officer, ascertaining the circumstances of the
' and the amount of the articles for which cotn
penfation is claimed.
The contrast for the above supplies will be made
either for one year, or for two years, as may appear
eligible. Pe ,r o „, d;f po f, d MWflflwiil
fore confine their offers to one var th
make the.r proportion. so iS JH i 7n "
ot the term of two ' dm " an clca «>»
The offers may com Drife a u ,l,
I Treasury Department,
N° TICE ■* 'y't wiPrt
i«M-u-fbrt, JS i 5 iSitiss
be r.-qu.red for the «fe of the United 5t..,. S
the firft day of January to the thirty.firft
Decern bej 1793, both days inclulWe, al S pll „L!|
in tne Slate ol MdflTacWetL, and ,l ie PottofW,#!
Point, in the Stateof New-York:'
The rations to be supplied, aie to consist 0 f th«
following articles, vi 7.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beet, or j of a pouni of nit ,
Hall a jill of rum, brandy or whi&y
One quart of fait, } '
Two quarts of vinegar, r
Two pounds of soap, ft" 100 ratipni.
One pound of candlei. )
The proposals may be made for both of the
Treasury Department,
N Aucuar, 10th, tjo,.
OTICE is hereby given, that prepofah win
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury until the fourth day of Oaobermn
inclulively, lor the supply of the following articles
of Cloth'ng for the Troopa ia the (mice o{-
she United States viz.
For ths, INFANTRY and ARTILLERY.
4608 Hats 18460 Shirts
4608 Coats 7956 Pair of Sock
4608 Vests 4 6c8 Blankets
8668 Woolen Overalls 4608 Stocks
9216 Linen Overalls 4608 Stock Clasps
18376 Pair of Shoes 4608 Pair of Buckles
For the CAVALRY.
360 Caps -720 Pair of Stocking*
360 Coats *44° Shirts
360 Vests 360 Blankets
360 Pair of Leather 360 Stocks
(Breeches 360 Stork Clasps; also,
720 Pair of Boots 1200 Rifle Shirts, to be
360 Pair of Spurs (made of Ruflia Sheeting.
The above Clothing to be delivered either in
New-York, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the op
tion of the contra&or or coniraftors, on or before
the 15th day of June, 1793.
The piopofals may comprise the whole of the
before-mentioned Clothing, or any one or more
of thecomponent articles ; to be furniOied agreea
bly to patterns or specimens, which will be (hewn
st the War Office. Good security will berequii
ed for the pun&ual and faithful performance of
the contract. The payment will be on the delive
ry of the Clothing, or, if necelTary, such reasona
ble advances will be made as the Secretary of the
Treasury fh<rll deem expedient.
War Department,
August 6, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are intitled for fix months
of their artnual pension, from the 4th day of March
1792, and which will bccome due on thesth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the said day
by the Commiflioncrs of the Loans wiihin the
States refpe£tively, under the usual regulations,?iz.
Eveiy application for payment must be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
lft. The certificate given bv the ftate,fpecifying
that the person poffefiing the fame is in fact an in
valid, and afcei taming the sum to which as such he
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, tne of the Jupces of the
county of in the slate of and made oath that
he is the fame A. B. to whom the original certificate
in his pojjefjion was give*) of which the following is
a copy (the certificate given by the Jlate to be recited)
That 'he served (regiment, corps or vejfetj at
the time he was disabled, and that he WW re J' " 1 .
the and county of am i has Tcjdci
there for the last years, previous to which he re
ftded in
In cafe an invalid fliould apply for payment by
an attorney, the said attorney, be fides the certifi
cate and oath before recited, must produce a ipe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the following
form : .
I, A. B. of county of pteof "
hereby conJiHute and appoint C. D. oj *>) ' aw J u
attorney, to receive in my behalf of my pep*
for fix months, as an invalid of the United tates,
ft am the fourth day of March, one thou find seven
hundred and ninety-two, and ending the fjt My °j
September, one thoufandfeven hundred and ninet)-tv*>
Signed and sealed
in the pretence of
| JVitncjfes,
Acknowledged before mc,
Applications of executors and
mud he accompanied with legal evidence 0 1
refprdive offices, and also of ihe time the in™
died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the
Prcftdent of the United S lltcs » -
H. KNOX, Secretaryoj W'
GST The Printers in (tie refpeflive S,a '' , f ' r j !
rcqucfted to publtfh the above in their
pers. for the space of two months. -
George-Town.
A Number of LOTS in every f.tuation wine
'X. njav be defiired in City of .[J. 1N nl |
will be offered for sale by the Commi «
Monday the Bth day otOftober next.
part of the money to be paid down, rl „ , n teieft
three equal annual payments with )" 1
on the whole ANTT , Clerk
..theCotntn,^
June 2) i"9«.