I
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 6q, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 89, of Vol. lII.]
Oflfy <»
#'
SECOND CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
and held at the city of Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
sylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thouland seven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT to establish the Post-Office and Post-
Roads within the United States.
BE it enacted by the Senate and Hor.fe of Representatives of the
United Srates of America, in Congress alTembled, That from
and after the firft day of June next, the following road* be cftab
lifhed as port-roads, namely : From Wifcaffet in the diftrif't of
Maine, to Savannah in Georgia, by ihe following route, to wit :
Portland, Portsmouth, Newburyport, Ipswich, Salem, Bolton,
Worcefter,Springfield, Hartford, Middletown, New-Haven,Strat
tord, Fairfield, Norwalk, Stamford, New-York, Newark, Eliza
bethtown, Woodbridg*\ Brunfwick, Princeton, Trenton, Bristol,
Pniladelphia, Chester, Wilmington, Elkton, Charleftown, Havre
de Grace, Hartford, Baltimore, Bladmfburg, Georgetown, Alex
- anaria, Colchester, Dumfries, Fredenckfburg, Bowl'ng-Greeo.
Hanover Court-house, Richmond, Petersburg, Halifax, Ta'bo
rough, Smithfield, Fayetteville, Newbridge over Drowning creek,
Cheraw Court-house, Camden, Statefburg, Columbia, Cambridge
and Augusta ; and from thence to Savannah, and from Augusta,
by Walhington in Wilkes County to Greenborough, and from
thence by the great falls of Ogechee and Georgetown to Augusta,
and from Statefburg toCharlefton, and from Charlcfton to George
town, from (Jharlefton to Savannah, and from Savannah by New
port bridge to Sunbury ; and also from. Portsmouth by Exeter and
Concord, to Hanover in New-Hampshire ; and from Salem to
Marblthead, and from Salem to GlouCester ; and from Boston, by
Providence, Newport, and New-London, to New-Haven; and
from Boston, through Taunton, to New-Bedford ; and from
Taunion, through Warren and Briitol, to Newport; and from
Boston, by Plymouth, to Barnftable; and from Springfield in the
state of Maftachufetts, to Kinderhook in the state of New-York,
and from Springfield, by Northampton, Brattleborough, and
Charleftown, by Windsor in Vermont, to Hanover, and fron
Hartfo'd, by Middletown, to New-London; also from Hartford
to Norwich and Providence ; and from Providence to Worcester ;
and from Philadelphia, by Lancaster, Yorktown, Carlisle, Ship
penfburg, Chamberfburg, Bedford, and Greenfburg, to Pittfburg;
and Irdm Philadelphia to Bethlehem ; from Bethlehem, by Read
ing and Harrifburg, to Carlisle; and from Bethlehem, by Eafton,
Suflex Court-houle, Gofhen, Ward's Bridge, and Kingston, to
Rhinebrck ; from Philadelphia, by Salem, to Bridgetown ; and
from Wilmington, by Warwick, Georgetbwn, Cross-roads, Chef
tertown, Chester-mills, and Eafton, to Vienna ; and from Vienna,
by Salisbury, to Snow-Hill; also from Wilmington, by Newcastle,
Cantwell's Bridge and Duck-Creek, to Dover; and from thence
by Milford, Dagfborough, Snow-Hill and Northampton Court
house, to Norfolk in Virginia ; and from Balnmoie to Annapolis,
Upper Marlborough, Pifcatawa, Port-Tobacco, Allen's Frcfb,
Newport, and Chaptico, to Leonard-Town ; and from Richmond
by Will.a mfbuTg, Yorktown and Hampton, to Norfolk ; and from
Frederickfburg, by Port-Royal and Tappahannock. to Urbanna ;
and from thence, crofling Rappahannock, and proceeding bv Nor
thumberland Court-house, to Kinfale on the river Yeocomico;
thence by Wcftmoreland Court-house, threugh Leed's town, to
Frederickfburg ; and from Pctcrfburg, by Cab;n-Point, Smith
field, and Suffolk, to Portsmouth, and from Suffolk to Edcnton,
and by Plymouth to Wafhtngton ; and from Washington to New
bern, and thence to Wilmington; and from Favetteville, by Eli
2abethtown, to Wilmington ; and from Halifax, by Warrington,
Hillfborough, Salem, to Salisbury ; from Halifax, bv B!unt*s ville,
Wilharnfton, Dai leys to Plymouth ; and from Edenton, by Hert
ford, Nixonton, Sawyer's Ferry, in Camden County, to Indian
Town, in Currituck County ; and from New-Yoi k, by Albany,
Bennington, Mancheller and Rutland, to Burlington on Lake
Champlain ; ana from Albasy, by Schencft dy, to Connajoiharrie;
from New-York to Hartford, through White-plains,North-Caftle,
Salem, Poundridge, Ridgefield, Danbury, Newtown, New-Mil
ford, Litchfield, Harrington and Farmingion ; from Newaik or
Elizabethtown, by Morriitown, to Sufi x Court-house ; from
Woodbridge to Amboy ; from Alexandria, by Salisbury, Leef
burg, Shepherd's-town, Martinfburg, Winchester, Stevenfburg,
Strafburg, Woodftock. and Rockingham Court-house, to .Staun
ton ; and from Richmond, bv Columbia, Charlottefville, Staun
ton, Lexington, Fincaftle, Montgomery Court-house, Wythr
Couit-houfe, Abingdon, and Hawkin's Court-house, in the terri
tory south of the river Ohio, to Dan\illc in Kentuckey ; and from
Baltimore, by Fredericktown and Sharpfburg, to Hagarftown ; and
from thence to Chamberfburg : Provided, That the route, by
which the mails are at present conveyed, (hall in no cafe be alter
ed, without the consent of the contractor , till the contracts made
by the Postmaster-General shall be determined.
And be it further ena&ed, Thai it fhal< and may be lawful for,
the Postmaster-General to enter into contracts, for a term not ex
ceeding eight years; for extending the 1 ne of posts, and to autho
rize the pei son or pcrions, so coniratl.ng, to receive, during the
continuance of such contract, according to the rates by this ast
established, all the poiiage which shall arise on le;ters, newlpapers
and packets, conveyed by any such post ; and the roads, therein
defignatcd, lhall, during ihc continuance of such contract, be
deemed and considered as poft-ioads, within th** terms and pro
visions of this ast: Provided, That no such contract shall be made,
to the diminution of the revenue of the general poft-officc, and
that a duplicate of every such contract, under hand and seal, shall,
wiihin fixtv diy* after the execution thereof, be lodged in the of
taceofthe Comptroller of theTreafury of the United State.
And be it further enacted, That thire fhalt be established, at
the feat of the government of the United States, a general pofl
oSßce. And there shall be one Postmaster-General. who shaM have
authority to appoint an affiltanr, and deputy poftmafteis, at all
places where such shall be found necessary. And he shall provide
tor carrying the mail ©f ihe United Suies, by or
Saturday, March 5, 1792.
horses, as ne may judge mod expedient ; and as often as he, hav
ing regard to the produtiiveoefs thereof, as well as other circum
ltances, shall think proper, and defray the expense thereof, with
all other expen!-. <; arip.ng on the collection and management of the
revenue ot the poft-office He shall also have power to prescribe
such regulations to the deputy postmasters, and others employed
uadej him, as may be found neceifary, and to superintend the bu
fi less of the department, in ail the duties that arp, or mav be as
signed to it, and afo to direct t■»e route or road, wheie there are
more than one, between the places above eftablilhed, which »oute
or road lhall be considered as the poll-road.
And be it further enacted, That the Postmaster-General shall,
ence in three months, obtain from his deputies, the arid
vouchers of their receipts and expenditures, and the balances due
thereon, and render to the Secretary of the Treasury, a quarterly
account of all the receipts and exp ndirures in the said depart
ment, to be adjusted and fettled,, as other public accounts, and
" all pay, quarterly, i.ito the Treasury of the United States, the
balance in his hands. And the P >itinafter-Gencral, and his as
sistant, the deputy poftmalters, and such as they may employ in
their offices, (hall, refpeftiveiv, before tn y enter upon the duties,
or be entitled to receive the emoluments of their offices, and the
contractors for carrying the moil, and thrir agents or servants, to
whom the mat! lhall be ent»ufted, before they commence the ex
ecutor. of said tiuft, fhail respectively, take and fubferibe before
fomejufticeot the peace, the following oath or affirmation, and
cause a cert ficate thereof to be filed in the office of the Poilmafter-
General ; " I do fweaf (or affii m as the cafe may be) (hat 1 will
faithfully perform all the duties required of me, and abstain from
every thing forbidden by the law in relation to the establishment
of port-offices and post- oarts within the United States."
And be it fuaher cna&ed, That if any person (hall obftruft or
retard the passage of the mail, or of any horse or carnage carrying
the fame, he shall, upon conviction tor every such cffeace, pay a
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars. And if any ferryman
(hall, bv wilful negligence, or refufal to transport the "mail across
any ferry, delay the fame, he shall forfeit, and pay, tor each hail
hour that the fame shall be so delayed, a lum noi exceeding ten
dollars.
And be it further eha&fd, That it (hall be the duty of the ?oft
maftcr-General, to }<ive public notice in one or more of the news
papers published at the feat of government of the United States,
a id in one or more of the newfpapeis published in the state or
states where the contract is to be performed, for, at least, fix weeks
before th<* entering into any contra& for the conveyance of the
mail that such contract is intended to be made, and the day on
which it (hall be concluded ; d'efcribing the places, from and to
which such mail is to be conveyed ; the time at which it is to be
made up ; the day and hour, at which it is to be delivered ; and
the penalty or penalties for non-performance of the stipulations.
He (hall, moreover, within thiity days after the making of any
contract, lodge the fame, together with the proposals which he
shall have received refpetling the fame, in the ofi&c.e of the Comp
troller of the treasury of the United States.
And be it further enacted, That every deputy postmaster shall
keep an office in which one or more persons (hail attend at such
hours s the Poftmarter-generai shall direst, for the purpose of
performing the duties thereof. And all letters brought to any
poft-ofnee, half an hour before the time of making up the mail
at such office, shall be forwarded therein.
And be it further enabled, That from and after the patting of
this ast, the Postmaster-General fha!l be allowed, for his services,
at the rate of two thousand dollars per annum, his assistant, at the
rate of one thousand dollars per annum, to be paid, quarterly, out
of the revenues of the poll-office : And no fees or perquisites (hall
be received by either of them, on acconnt of the duties to be per
formed in virtue of their appointments.
And be it further ena&ed, That from and after the firft day of
June next, the deputv postmaster and persons authorized by the
Poftmafter-Gcneral, fliall demand and recetve, for the portage and
conveyance of letters and packets, except such as are herein after
excepted, according to the several rates and lums following : For
the postage of every single letter, to or from any place by land
not exceeding thirty miles, fix cents ; over thirty miles, and not
exceeding sixty, eight cents ; over sixty miles, and not exceeding
one hundred, ten cents ; over one hundred miles, and not exceed
ing one hundred and fifty, twelve cents and a half; over one hun
dred and fifty miles,and not exceeding two hundred, fifteen cents;
over two hundred miles, and not exceeding two hundred and fif
ty, seventeen cents ; over two hundred fifty miles, and not
exceeding three hundred and fifty, twenty cents; over three hun
dred and fifty miles, and not exceeding four hundred and fifty,
twenty-two cents ; and to from any place by land, more than
four hundred and fifty miles, twenty-five cents ; and every double
letter shall pay double the said rates ; every triple letter, triple ;
every packet weighing one ounce avoirdupois, to pay, at the rate
cf four for each ounce, and in that proportion, for
any greater weight.
And be it further ena&ed, That all, letters and packets, parting
bv Tea to and from ihe United Slates, or from one port to another
therein, in packct boats or veflels, the property of, or provided
by the United States, (hall be rated and charged, as follows : For
every Tingle letter, eight cents ; for every double letter, sixteen
cents ; for every triple letter or packet, twenty-four cents ; for
every letter or packet brought into the United Stales, or carried
from one port therein to another by sea, in any private ship or
veflel, four cents, if delivered at the place where the fame shall ar
rive ; and if direded to be delivered a; any other place, with the
addition of the like pottage, as other letters are made fubjed to
the payment of by this ad.
And be it further enaded, That if any deputy postmaster, or
other person authorized by the Postmaster-General, to rcccive the
pottages of letters, fiiall fraudulently demand or receive any rate
of pottage, or any gratuity or reward, other than is provid d b\
this ad for the postage of letters or packets, on conviction thereof,
he (hall-forfeit for every such offence, one hundred dollars, and
fha'l be rendered incapable of holding any office under the Unit
ed States.
And be it further enaded, ThatnoPnipor veil" I, arriving at
any port within the United States, where a poft-ofiice is ettablifh
ed. (hall be permitted to report, make entry or break bulk, till the
mailer or commander (hall have delivered to the postmaster. ali
letters direded to anv person or persons within the United S rates,
which, under his care or within his power, (hall be brought in
such ship or veflel, other than such as are direded to the owner or
confignte : but when a veflel (hall be boun<t to another port, than
that, at Which (hr may enter, the lexers belonging to, or to be de
livered at the said port of delivery, fhali not be delivered to the
poflrcaftcr at the port of entry. And it lhall be the duty of the
353
[Whole No. 297.3 ■ -
collcflor or other officer of the port, empowered to receive entries
ol (hips or velfrls, to require from erery matter or commandcr of
tach fhipor veflVl, an oath or affirmation, parpoViirig that he has
delivered all such letters, except as alorelnd.
And be it further ena&ed, That the postmasters to whom such
lcttets may be delivered, shall pay u> the matter, commander, or
other person delivering the fame,except the commanders of fo
reign packets, two ccnts tor every such letter or packet ; and ill aIV
obtain from the person delivering the fame, a certificate fpretty
ing tne number of letters and packets, with rhe name of the ship
or veflel, and the place from whence (he last failed ; which certi
ficate, together with a receipt for the money, fhali be with hi#
half-yearly accounts, transmuted to the Poftmafter-Generil, who
lhall credit the amount thereof to the postmaster forwarding the
lame.
And be it further enacted, That if any person, other than the
Poftmzlter-General, or his deputies, or persons by them employ
ed, lhall take up, receive, order, dispatch, convey, carry or deli
ver any letter or letters, packet or packets, other tnan newfoapers,
tor hire or leward, or shall be concerned in setting up any loot or
horse post, waggon or other carriage, by or in which any letter or
packet lhall be carried/or hire, on ;.ny eftablilhed post-road, or
any packet, or othervefTel or boat, or any conveyance whatever,
whereby the revenue of the general pod-office may be injure!,
every person, so offending, (hall forfeit, for every such offline,
the sum of two hundred dollars: Provided, Thit it shall and
may be lawful for every person to fend leitcrs or packets by fpc
ciai mefferiger.
And be it further enii&ed, That the deputy poftinafters or agenta
of the Postmaster-General, lhall duly account and anl wer to him,
for all bye or way letters, and (hall fpecify the number and rajes
in the post bill. And if any deputy poftinaller or agent (hall ne
glect so to account, he or thev so offending, lhal!, on conviction
theieof, lorlett, (or eve:y iuch otrcnce, a lutn not exceeding one
hundred dollais.
And be it further enafled, Tfu t if anv person, employed in any
ofth* departments of the general pofi-office, (hall unlawlully de
ta n, delay, or open, an) later, packet, bag or mail oi letters, with
which he lhallbe entrusted, or which lhall have come to his pof-
IcffioD, and which are intended to be conveyed by poll : Or i£
any such person shall fecretc, embezzle or destroy any letter or
packet, intruded to him, >s aforefaid, and which lhall not con
tain any fecuriiy for, or 3(furance relating to money, as herein af
ter defcribea, every iuch offender, being thereof duly convicted,
(hall, for every fuC n offence, oe fined not exceeding three hundred
dollars, or imprifonefl exceeding lix months, or both, accord
ing to the circumilances and of the offence. And if
any person, employed as aforeiait., ih ill fecrcte, embezzle or de
stroy, any letter, packet, bag, or maiJ U* Otters, with which he
(hall be eutrufted, or which lhall have corf)-; to his polfeflion, and
are intended to be conveyed by pelt, containingbank note,or
bank poll bill, bill of exchange, warrant of the Treasury of the
United States, note of aflignment of Hock in ihe funds,
attorney for receiving anr.uities or dividends, or for felling ifotk
in the (unds, or for receiving the iniereft thereof, or any letter of
credit, or note for, or relating to the payment ol money, or
bond or warrant, drafr, bill, or pronv.ffory note whatsoever, for
the payment of money ; oi »r any such person, employed as afon
faid, lhall Ileal 01 take any of the fame out of any letter, packet,
bag or mail of letters, that (hall come to h s polfefiion, he (hall,
on conviction, foi any such offcnce, luffcr death. And if any per
son, who (hall have taken charge ol the mail of the United States,
(hall quit or desert the fame, before his arrival at the next poit-ot
fice,every such person, so offending, (hall forfeit and pay a sum,
not exceeding five hundred dollars, for every such oifence. And
if any peifon, concerned in carrying the mail of the United States,
(hall collect, receive or carry any 1 iter or packet, or (hall cause
or procure the fame to be done, contrary to this ast, every luch
offender (hall forfeit and pay, for every iuch offence, a sum not
exceeding fifty dollars.
And belt turther ena£led, That if any person or persons shall
rob any carrieHof the mail of the United States, of such mail, or
if any person shall rob the mail, jn which letters are lent to be
conveyed by poll, of any letter or packet, or shall steal such mail,
or shall steal and take from or out of the fame, or from or out of
any poft-office, any letter or packet, such oftender or offenders
shall, on convi&ion thereof, futfer death.
And be it further ena&ed, That :he deputy postmasters shall,
refpe&ively, publish at the expiraticn of every three months, in
one of the newspapers publilhed at, or ns?reft the place of his re
sidence, for three fucceflive weeks, a lift of *11 the letters then re
maining in their relpeitivc offices; and at the expiration of the
next three months, fhalf feud such of the said letters as then re
main oo hand, as dead letters, to the general poft-office, where the-/
fame shall be opened and infpetled ; and if any valuable papers or
matter of confequencej shall be found therein, it shall be the duty
of the Poftmrfter-General, to cause a descriptive lift thereof to be
infeited in one cf the newlpapers, publifhea at the place most con
venient to where the owner may be luppofed to reside, if within
the United States, and such letter and the extents shall be pre
served, to be delivered to the person, to whom the fame shall be
addrefftd, upon payment of the poitage, aad the .xpenfe of pub
lication.
And be it further enaded, That the following letters and pack
ets, and no other, shall be received and conveyed by post, free of
postage, under such rcftridionsas are herein after provided ; that
is to fay—all letters and packets to or from the Prefidcot or Vics
- of the United States, and all letters and packets, not ex
ceeding two ounces in weight, to or from any member of the Se»
uate or House of Representatives, the Secretary of the Senate or
Clerk of the House of Reprefentauves, during their adual attend
ance in any feifion of Congrels, and twenty days after such feflion.
All letters to and from the Secretary of the Treafurv, and his as
sistant, Comptroller, Register, and Auditor of the Treafurv, thf
Treasurer, the Secretary of State, the Secretary at War, the CortJ
miffioners for fettling the accounts between the United States and
i dividual States, the poftmafUr-Genera! ana his afliftaut: Pro
vided, That no periou shall frank or enclose any letter or packct,
other than his own ; but any oublic letter or packet from the de
partment of the Tieafurv may be franked by the Secretary of the
Treafurv, or the a Aidant Secretary, or by the Comptroller, Regis
ter, Auditor or Ticafurer. And that each peifon before named
(hail deliver to the poft-officc every letter or packet encloied t#
him, which ms) be direded toany other person, noting the place,
front whence it came by pott, aud the usual pottage Ihull be char
ged thereon.
And be it further enacted, That if any person fhal! counterfctt
the Iwnd-wnting of aav other perion, in order to evade the pay
meat of poftvge, such person or psiioitt, fu <wteo4ing, and beingthereof duly convidedi (hall forfeitand pay, for
every such offence, the funi of one hundred dol
lars.
And be it further enacted, That every printer
of newspapers may fend one-paper to each and
every other primer of nevvfpapers ;within the
United States, free os-pottage, under such regu
lations as tl>e Poflmalier-General (liall provide.
And be it further exacted, That all newspa
pers conveyed in the mail, /hall be under a cover
open at one end, carried in separate bags from
letters, and charged with the payment' of
one cent for any dittance not niorethan one hun
dred miles, and one cent and a half for any
greater dittance : And it (hall be the duty of the
pott matter-general and his deputy, to keep a
separate account for the newspapers, and the
deputy poll-matters /hall receive fifty per cent,
on the pod age of all newspapers : And if any
other matter or thing lie enclofedin such papers,
the whole packet lhall be charged, agreeably to
the rates ettablifhed by this act, for letters or
packets. Atid if any of the persons employed
in any department of the pott-office, fliall unlaw
fully detain, delay, embezzle or destroy any
ne.wfpaper, with which he (hall be entrusted,
such offenders, for every such offence, (hall for
feit a lum not exceeding fifty dollars : Provided,
that the poft-mafler-general, in any contraift, he
may enter into, for the conveyance of the mail,
may authorize the person, with whom such con
tratfi is made, to carry newspapers, other than
those conveyed in the-niail.
Ami be it further enacted, That the pofl-maf
icr-general be, and he is hereby authorized to
allow to the deputy poft-matteis, refpedlively,
inch commission on the monies arising from the
postage of letters and packets, as he shall think
adequate to their rcfpective Cervices : Provided,
That the said commission (hall not exceed forty
per cent to any deputy, whose conipenfation
thereby (ball not exceed fifty dollars, nor thirty
per cent to any deputy, whose compensation
thereby shall not exceed one hundred dollars,
nor twenty per cent to any other deputy, except
the poll-matter at the port where the European
packets do, or shall lleadily arrive ; to whom
luch farther allowance, ii; addition to the emo
luments of his office, shall be made, as the pod
matter-general shall deem a reasonable conipen
fation for his extra-services, in the receipt and
dispatch of letters, originally received into his
office, si 001 on board such packets, and by him
forwarded to other offices : And provided alio,
That the compcnfations aforefaid fhali not ex
ceed eighteen hundred dollars per annum to any
one poii mailer for all lervicesby him rendered.
And be it further enatfted, That if any depu.
ty post mailer, or other person authorised to re
ceive the postage of letters and packets, shall ne
glect or refufe to under his accounts, and pay
ovei to the pofl-malter-general, the balance by
him due, at the end of every three months, it
shall be the duty of the polt-mafter-genei a], to
caule a suit to be commenced against the person
or persons so neglecting or refuting : Alid if the
poft-maller-general shall not cause such suit to
be commenced within three months, from the
end of every such three months, the balances
due from every such delinquent shall be charged
to, and recoverable from the polt-malle-'- e;ene
ral. s
And be it further ena<fted, Tliat all pecuniary
penalties and forfeitures, incurred under this
acfi, shall be, one half for the life of the person
01 persons informing and prosecuting for the
fame, ti'.e other half to the use of the United
States.
And be it further enacted, That it shall be
lawful for the poft-malter-general, to make pro
\jbon where it may be necelTary, for the receipt
of all ,etrers and packets intended to be con
veyed by any ship or vefTel, beyond sea, or from
any port of the United States to another porl
therein j and the letters so received shall be
formed into a mail, sealed up, and directed to
T, , r of lhe part lo which f,lch fll 'P or
veliel shall be bound And for every lettei- or
packet so .eceived, there shall be paid, at the
a"!? > "n rec *P l,on » a poltage of one cent.
£nd the post-master-general may make arrange
ments with the poft-uiafters in any foreign coun
try for the reciprocal receipt and delivery 0 f
letters and packets, through the poft-olfices
ft " fUn ? le ,'' ena<r,ed , That the deputy
poft-mafteis, and the persons employed in the
tranfponation of the mail, shall be exempt from
Thereof S '° r si " C ° r I,e ' ,alt y fo '' lle S leA
And be it further enacted, That all the fur
plus revenue °f the general poft-ofiice, which
ilia.ll have accrued previous to the firft day of
June next, not heretofore appropriated, be and
the fame is hereby appropriated towards defray
ing o7th/5 C^ n 7 Whkh " ,ay arise in t!lc reve
enfuing department for the year next
And be it further enarted Thnr th» a rr ,
at the last session of
a« to continue in force, for a limited time an
ast nit,tiled, "An art for the temporary Ua
bliihment of the port-office," be, and the fame
is l.eieby continued in "full force, until the firlt
dny of June ne\t, and no longer.
And be ir further enadied, That this art riiall
be in force for the ierni of two years, from the
said full day of June next, and no longer.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Ho'jfe of Reprfentat'ves.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prudent ojthe United States,
and Prejidcht oj the Senate.
APPROVED, '792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON',
President of tht United Slates.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, February 6.
In commit tee of the whole, on the Fijhery, Bill.
[CONTI N U ED.]
TV/TR. GOODHUE The gentleman last up
-L*-*- (Mr. Williamfon) fays, that an appropria
tion of money being made by the bill now before
its, and the treasury ft an ding pledged for the pay
ment, therefore a diretft bounty is granted. At
ptefenr, we pay in drawbacks about 4JOOO dol
lars ; but we cannot fay, that this sum will be
adequate to the payment of the drawbacks next
year : for if a greater quantity of fifh be taken,
a greater sum of course inuft be allowed : and as
the Aim depends entirely 011 the quantity of fifh,
it is iinpoffible to ascertain beforehand the pre
cise amount ; thereis not however, in the whole
bill any thing of a bounty, except the bare name.
The gentleman allows that weniaj commute the
prefeut drawbacks, and give them to the fiflier
man inltead of the merchant: but it is impoliible
to do this with fafety in any other mode than
that pointed out in the bill—Shallwe leave ir to
the fifherman, to be determined by his oath .'
This would not be advifeable.'
The plan proposed is a much less exceptionable
one ; it is founded on a calculation, that ji certain
quantity of tonnage is employed in taking a cer
tain quantity of fifli :—on this calculation the al
lowance is apportioned to the tonnage: if gen
tlemen think the allowance too high, let the Ann
be reduced ; but let it not be stigmatised as n
bounty :itis no such thing.—The word ' Botany '
is an unfortunate expreHion ; and I wish it were
entirely out of the bill.
Mr. Livermore. The bill now under conside
ration lias two important objects in view. The
one is, to give encouragement to our fifhermen,
and by that encouragement, to encrenfe their
numbers : the other is ro govern those fifhermen
by certain laws, by which they will be kept un
der due restraint. Both these objeCls are of
great importance to such persons as choose to
employ their capitals in the fifhery business : and
I believe ir will UO t be disputed that the business
itfelt is of considerable importance to the United
States, insomuch as it affords a certain propor
tion of remittance or exportation to foreign conn
tries j and docs not impoverish the country, but
enriches it by the addition of so much wealth
drawn from the sea.
It is the objeCt of those gentlemen, who favor
the bill, that the fifhermen Ihould have some en
couragement, not given to them at the expense
o. the United' States, but directed to them out of
what was, in the former law, called a drawback
of the duty on fait.
1 lie calculation, as I understand, has been
made as nearly as pofTible, to give that draw
back not to the merchants who export the fifli
but to the fifliermen who take it, in order to en'
creale that description of men, without whofc
a hifancj it is in vain'to expect any benefit from
the fifiieries : forif the merchants,at prefenten
in that branch, poilefled the whole capita}
ot the United States, yet if they cannot get fifli
ernien, they canm t carry on the fhhery . this is
done by a particular class of men, who mufl be
not only expert f'eamen, but also accnitomec! to
taking the fifli and curing it. If these men can
not be had, the capital cannot be employed ;
and those who undertake the business, cannot
carry it on, or reap any profit from it.
Whilst the drawback is payable only to the
merchant who exports the fifli, it is impossible to
convince the fifhermen, that they reap from it
any advantage whatever: or if some of the more
< ifcerning among them do perceive any advan
tage in it, the others who are not so cleai-fitrht
ed cannot difcem it, and are therefore not dis
posed to undertake the business. It is how e v er
of considerable importance to the merchants,
t lat the fifherinan fnould receive a proper en
couragement, even if they were obliged to allow
u a bounty out of their own pocket.
354
The government of tl, e fiftermen, afier . .
engagement n, this bufmefc is also neArr
be provided for : otherwise f'eauent inft' 7
may occur among that class of men e . an . ces
r ..n-e, ; r F d m :,ztr:rji
(hipping rhemfelves for a foreign voyage! before
the expiration of the fifhing season. I?, the la'
er cafe, the vefTel lies u.elefs on the owner,
hands ; and he, together with the whole expense
of theout-fit, loses all hi, profpeds of E*
gain.
The two objects here mentioned, are fully
provided tor in the bill. Still however it bob'
jevfiedl to ••—but what is the objection >— it is .
that the word 'bounty ' is twice.,fed this clause'
— Let us now fee what advantage will r e s„| t f lou
linking out this obnoxious ' bounty.' None ac
all : the bill fays it (hall cease ; and have gen
tleinen any objection to the bounty's ceafine >—
Since the bouncy is to cease by this bill that
advantage ~, striking it ous ?_The sense would
Ihll remain the fame : aud I don'r know why we
fliould make a law exprefly i 0 itrike out the
word ' bounty,' but to strike out the bounty it-
It is ft range to me, chat any gentleman, v. be.
'
ther he is for giving a great bounty, or no' boqn
ty at all, should quarrel with this un-fortunau
W u- ur T -M , e ,s , i . ndeed > °" c I"" of the fetftion,
which I will readily consent to strike out, an<fl
believe every other gentleman who is in favor of
the bill, will consent to it likewise ; and that is,
the clatife which provides, thar the bounty, to be
allowed and paid on every ve(lel,for one season,
shall not exceed one hundred and seventy dol
lars. If, when the vote is taken on the fedUon, '
there does not appear a majority of the house in
lavor of (Iriking übt the whole, we may then
move for ftrikingTjiic the prov'ift,, if it be offeir
five to any gentleman : if it be not ofFenfive, it
may remain.
If gentlemen are disputing, only because the
\yot d '■bounty in the bill, they may be per-
j clieved from their unea'juefs on that
score : for the bill cxprefsly f.tys " that the
bounty now allowed upon the exportation of dri
ed fifh, of the fifheries of the Unired States, (hall
ceal'c ; and in lieu thereof" a different kind of
enrouragement is to be given. Here is no reason
to dispute about a word : if gentlemen are dis
posed to content to the principle of the bill, that '
ibe drawback of the duties on fait ihall be com
muted for a certain sum to encourage the fifher
men, they will vote in favorof the hill :—if not,
they will vote against if. But it is impoilible for
ine to conceive, why any gentleman under hea
ven ftiould beagainlt it : it is only fixing, for
the merchants engaged in this branch, a clear
and equitable ratio, for difti ibuting among the
filherinen that encouragement, which they think
weceflavy in order to attach rhofe people to the
bufihefs, and to prevent them from going to
other occupations, on land. The bill is an im
portant one, and will encreafe that branch of
business, which is very ufeful to the community :
, — if does not lay a fqrthing of bounty, or duty
on any other persons, .than those who are imme
diately concerned in it:—it will serve them ;
and will not injure any body.
Mr. Lawrance said, from examining the fee
tion, he conceived ir contemplated no/note than
what the merchant is entitled to by exiltinglaws.
The merchant is now incitled to the drawback ;
but ir is found by experience that the effect ha!
not been to produce that encouragement to the
fifliermen which was expected ; and he prefunied
the way was perfectly clear to give a new direc
tion to the drawback—and this is all that is aim
ed at in tile bill. He supposed that the clsnfe
had no neceflary connection with the qtieflion
which had been flatted, respeCting the right of
the government to grant bounties—but, fincethe
question ha 9 been brought forward, it may he
proper to consider it : In difcufiing the quefhon,
lie enquired, what has Cougrefs already done.
Have we not laid extra duties on various articles,
expressly for the purpose of enconrageing vaU '
ous branches of our own manufactures —thel*
dutiesare bounties to all intents and purposes,
and are founded on the idea only of their con u
cing to t-he general interefl- —Similar objections to
those now advanced, were not made to "
ties—they were advocated (some of tliem) '7
gentlemen from the Southward ; he traced t e
effects of these duties, and (hewed that they or-
ated fully, as indirect bounties
Mr. Lawrance then adverted particularly t
the constitution—and observed that it c ° nt^ f
general principles and powers only—the ep°
ers depend 011 particular laws for their operatio »
and on this idea he contended that the P°/i aJI .
of the government must, in various cl ' cll .
ces extend to the granting bounties ; - 1,1
ced in cafe of a war with a foreign P ower ' elit
any gentleman fay that the geneim goven
has not a power to grant a bounty 011 a'--' >
ammunition, &c. fhoold the genera
quire it ? The general welfare .* '"leg
connected with any object or puifii'
itt- effect sadds to the 1 iches of the <o" n .conceived that the argument was given up by
gentlemen in opposition to the bill, when they
admjt of encouragement to the fifliermen in any
possible modification of it. He then adverted
particularly to the fisheries ; dated the n,umber
of men employed, the tons of {hipping necell'a
ry to export the fi(h taken ; and inferred the
found policy of encouraging so important a
branch of bufin£fs.
Gentlemen fay that we do not want a navy—
grant it—but can they fay that we iliall never
have a war with any European power ? May not
the time arrive when the protection to the com
merce of this country, derived from this foiirce
juay be of the utmolt neceflity to its exiflence.
Adverting to Mr, Williamfon's objection from
the unequal operation of bounties—and who had
referred to the article of the constitution which
fays that taxes fhnll be equal, in all the States ;
Mr. Lawrance observed that this article in the
constitution cotild only refpetft the rates of the
duties, and'that the fame duties should be paid
in Virginia that are paid in New-York—at the
Northward, as at the Southward ; it surely could
not mean that every individual fiiould pay ex
actly the fame fuui in every part of the union ;
this was a provision that no law could pofiibly
contemplate.
He concluded by a fuinmary recapitulation of
his arguments —and faying he hoped the fetfiion
would be retained.
(to pe continued.)
WEDNESDAY, February 29
The Speaker laid before die House a report
from the Treafiirer of the United Srates, con
taining his specie account, from the ifl of o(fto
ber, to the 31H of December, T 791. — Referred to
a special committee, to examine and report.
A nieflage was delivered by Mr. Secretary Otis,
notifying that the Senate had agreed to the con
ference proposed by the Iloufe, on the fubjeJt of
the amendments to the frontier bill, and had, on
their part, appointed a committee of three mem
bers, to meet the committee (of five) appointed
by the House.
A report from the Secretary of the Treasury,
on the petition of the executors of Edward Games,
was read and referred to a committee of the whole
House, on Monday next.
Mr. Page called up the report of the feletft
committee 011 the memorial of Mr. Churchman.
The report, after some debate, was agieed to,
and in pursuance thereof, a committee was ap
pointed to bring in a bill.
Mr. Lawrance presented a memorial from the
merchants of New-York, who trade to India and
China—Referred to the committee of the whole
on the Itate of the union.
Mr. W. Smith {from the committee appointed
to examine and report whether any and what al
terations are neceff'ary to be made in the Acfts
•ftabliftiing the Treafurvand War Departments)
made a report, which was twice read, ordered to
be printed, and referred to'a committee of the
whole Honfe on Tuesday next.
In committee of the whole—(Mr. W. Smith in
the Chair) —on the Militia Bill.
The queltion being taken on a motion made
by Mr. Sumpter, to strike out the se
cond fediion, containing an enumeration of vari
ous defcriptioris of persons to be exempted from
militia duty—it palled in the negative.
/ On motion ,of Mr. Boudinot, " the members
of both Houses of Congress, with their refpetfiive
.officers," were added to tlie lift of exempts.
But a motion from the fame gentleman, to add
" all persons conscientiously scrupulous of bear
ing arms," after a fliort debate, was negatived—
and the committee role and reported progress.
Adjourned.
THURSDAY, March I.
In committee of the whole on the Militia Bill—
Mr. B. Bourne in the chair.
The committee proceeded in the difcuflion as
far as the tenth fedtion—they then rose and re
ported progress.
Mr. Goodhbe', from the joint committee ap
pointed to coniider an<l report what buljinels is
neceflarjr to be done the present session, made a
report, which was read and laid on the table.
M,". Willliamfon presented a bill to amend an
adt, entitled, an acl to promote the progress of
the ufeful arts—read the firft time.
Mr. Sedgwick informed the House, that the
committee of conference, on the articles of disa
greement between the two Houses, in the fron
tier bill, having come to an agreement, he had
in his hand a report to make to the House—On
which, at half after two o'clock, -.he galleries
were cleared.
FRIDAY, March 2
The bill to amend # the ast to promote the of thr ufeful
arts— was read the fee oil d time and referred to a committee of the
whole on Thursday next.
A mtfTage from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed
the House that the Senate have paflt d the bill to ascertain and re
gulate the claims to half pay and invalid pensions—with amend
ments; also that the President of the United State* has approved
andTigned the a£t relative to the ele&ioa of a Prefideut and Vicc-
Prefi*icnt ©t th« United St3te*. &c.
Mr. Gerry renewed his motion lor a committee to report a hill
providing for a rrduftion of the portage on newfpapes ; ihij mo
tion after some debate was agreed to, and a committee appointed
consisting of MeHrs. Gerry, Murray and Findley.
Mr. Macon's motion laid on tiie 1 able some days ftnee for the
appointment ot a committee to report a hill providing tor the
fiiii filing a Light-Houfc on Bald-Head, 011 Capo-Jvar River —was
taken up. agreed to, and a committee accordingly appointed, con.
filling of Mr. Grove, Mr. Key, and Mr. Bnrnwrli. '
A message from the Senate infotmed the Houfr, that the Senate
has agreed to the report of the committee of conferenceon the it'll
making further and more etfe&nal proviftr.ll f,>, the defence of the
frontiers. —N. B. The House accepted ot the report of the com
mittee of conference yesterday.
'J'he committee on enrolled hills, reported a bill " for making
further and more effeifual provision for the defence of the fron
tier-," as duly eniolled—The Spcakerthen signed the fame
In committee of the whole on the militia bill.—Mr. B. Bourne
in the Chair.
The 10th feftion being read,;which provides for training and
difcipluivngthe miliiia, imposing fines, &c. a motion was made
that it should be ilruck out ; this motion after considerable de
bate was negatived.
The committee finifhed the discussion of the bill
Mr. Boudinot proposed an addition to the 2d feftion, impofino
an equivalent of two dollars per annum on all persons exempted
from militia duty, except lailois.—This motion was negatived
by a large majority.
The committee then rose and reported the bill with sundry a
meudrnents—which were leid on ill? table.
A petition was prefentcd ami read, from the dieflors of the
Olio Company —relered to Messrs. Sedgwi. k, Findley, Benfdn
Learned and Baldwin. Adjourned tillto-moirow.
LEGISLATURE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY.2 7.
The committee on the hoi pita], reported a ium of £ .15,000 to
be granted that inftitutrtm.
The bill for removi/ig obftru6lions in the navigable waters of
this (late, pafftd a second leading, and was ordered to be tian
fcribed tor a third.
BOS TON, February 18.
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
SENATE FEB 16.
I HE bill for incorporating the fuhferibers to
the BOJIOII Tontine Ajfociation, lent up by thehon.
Houle for concurrence, was read a second time,
and after debate, the question, ilia] 1 the bill pass
to be engrofl'ed, was determined in the negative—
Yeas 13 —Nays 17.
[The bill un Jerwent an ample and fair discus
sion for several days; and a Committee of the
Aflociation was heard on the subject on the floor
of the Senate.]
HOUSE OK REPRESENTATIVES, FEB. I 4,
I he committee railed to take into considera
tion the propriety of issuing a tax the present
leffion, reported verbally that it was not expe
dient.
The report was advocated by Meflrs. Breck,
Jarvis, Euftis, Stearns, and other gfentlemen.—
I"he profpeefl of the aflum ption of our State debts,
the handsome sum of money in the Treasury, and
the still greater.sum due to the Commonwealth,
were inlilted on as arguments not only against
the tax, but as proofs that we should have here
after in the State but vert small aUell'ments in
deed ; and the time wasfaft arriving, when the
good people of this Commonwealth, wherever
fiiuated, will enjoy all the blessings of peace and
tranquility, with but very little expence to them.
The report was objected to by Meflrs. Bacon,
Gardiner, Cony and Parsons ; but this last gen
tleman altered his opinion upon hearing the rea
sons urged in favor of it. The House accepted
the report by a large majority.
FEBRUARY ] J
MelTrs. Pierce, Tudor and Bond.w ere appoint
ed a committee to take into consideration the ex
pediency of giving a bounty to that p'erfon who
will make a model of the belt and fimplert: con
ftrudlion for the expediting the breaking and
swindling flax aijd hemp, to go either by water
or hand, for tile benefit of the public.
FEBRUARY I J
Agreeable to aflignment, the House proceeded
to the choice of an additional Clerk to the House,
when Thomas Crafts, Esq. was unanimoully
chosen.
A bill for ere<fting a Bridge over Merriroapk
River, at Newbury, palled the House, after a
lengthy debate.
A petition of Henry Knox, and others, praying
for the privilege of opening a navigable canal
from Connecticut river to the waters surround
ing the town of JBoilon—Read and committed to
Mr. Breck, Mr. Tudor and Mr. Wedgery.
Philadelphia, March 5.
Reports have prevailed that the Cod Fishery Bill was illy re
ceived by the fifhermcn, and that a riot had happened at Marble
head, in which a store was burned. We are happy to find the re
port is gioundlefs.
Extract oj a Utter jrom a gentleman at BcJlon t to his friend, dated
February 22, 1 792.
" The attempt to burn Col. 's store at Marblehead, was by
a boy, who, at the time, was intoxicated, and who went with a
brand of fire fiom a veflel in the view of half a dozen men, and
laid the fire at the corner of the store. Col. fays, the fifhe?-
men were at firft averse to sign articles, and complying with the
regulations prescribed in your a#, because they were innovations;
but that efforts had been used, and were fucccfsfully using, to shew
the sailors that their interest was protc6led and promoted by this
statute."
CENSUS OF THE STATE OF SOUTH-CAROLINA
The following is a transcript from a compleat and authentic co
py just received, of the Census of the Stateot South-Carolina
—v 17. ,9,5,576 white males above 16, 37,722 white males under
16, 66.880 while females, 1801 other freepcrfons, 107,094 slaves.
Total 24&073.
355
We arc happy to hear that the injury which the Hon. Mr. Day
ton received from his fall on the ice last Tuesday is Hot
so great as has been represented. It proves to be a fraiture ot one
"f the Imall bones of the ancle only ; it is ir. so fair a way of reco
veiy, and the fympioms attending it so favorable, as to afford the
moll fettering pmfptcts of Ins being ah e to go abroad, and to
give his attendance as heretofore in Congiefs, in the course of a
fortnight.
Accounts are received in town from Fort Wash-
Jngton, which mention that a feijeant and four
men had lately been to the place'where thebloo
uy battle of t he 4th of November lait was fought,
near the Miami \illages, where they counted five
hundred and thirty eight dead bodies. One
piece of artillery only was to be seen, but the
carriages of seven others remained on the ground;
the guns, it was supposed, were either buried or
thrown into the water.
Ihe party left Fort Jcfferfoh at dusk in the
evening, arrived at the place about day-break,
and (laying only long enough to make Lhe above
observations, left the melancholy fcerie.
Col. Wilkinfon, with a party of about four
hundred men, left Fort Walhington the 25th of
Jawuary, with intent to goto the place of atTtioii
and bury the dead, and it Was thought would
visit the Miami villages before they returned.
frort Jefferfon had a fufficient garrison, and fix
month's provilion.
T he papers from various parts of the Union
announce the celebration of the President's
Birth-Day, with every circuinftance indicativeof
loyalty to the government, and affe&ionate at
tachment to his person and administration.
The important business of eftabliftiilig free
fchools throughout thrt commonwealth, has late
ly been before the legislature—the result is are
port from a committee, in which it is proposed
that a school fliall be ettablifhe'd in each county.
A lot has been contracted for by the agents of
the Governor of this State, for the piirpofe of
erecting thereon thePitEsiDENT'sHousE. The
lot pitched upon, is in High-street, the corner of
Ninth-flreet. Several plans of the house have
been recently submitted to the legislature for their
consideration ; and in order to raise a sum, iu
addition to what has already been raised, to com
plete it in a proper stile of tax is pro
posed npon pleasure carriages.
From a concise view of the present state of se
veral European powers, it appears that the French
Revolution is in 110 danger from them. The,
Empress of Rnflia, whatever may be her wilbes,
it is said lias only iS,ooo troops, and a small
to oppose to 24 millions of men, who have fjvorn
to live free, or die.
Die family of Penn, have condituted the ho
norable Thomas M'Ke an and Edmund Phyfick, Efq,
of Pennsylvania, their attorneys in facft, to fell
and dispose of all the property of the said fami
ly in the state of Delaware. The two gentlemen
above mentioned, in consequence of this appoint
ment, have notified the President ofDelaware of
the fame, and offered to that state the right of
pre-emption.
On the nth and i jth of January last, the Le
gislature of the state of North-Carolina pafied
two resolutions, inftru&ing their Senators in the
Senate of the United States " to ufc their con
stant and unremitted exertions until they efFe<ft
having the doors of the Senate of the United
States kept open, that the people may have ac
cess to hear the debates of the Senate, when in
its legislative, or judicial capacity.
There being every appearance of a general
a(Tn nipt ion of the refidueof the state debts at this
feflion of Congrels, the public are advised not to
fell their state certificates at the
as there mufl be a considerable appreciation of
them in a Ihort time. [N.Yorf D. Adv. 3
It is a fa<ft pretty well ascertained, (fays a N.
York paper) that the realfpecie in the Hate does
not exceed twelve hundred thousand dollars ; of
which scarcely one million falls to the lhare of
th'e city.—lt is hard to tejl, then, from whence
the patrons of the new bank expet r t to procure
specie, as a balis whereon to ereiTt their fabric.
The New-York papers contain a variety of electioneering fpe.
culations—the majority of them appears at piefent in favor of Gov.
C L i nton. It seems that the business is to becondufled with
out personal scurrility !—
But when mankind so wife are grown,
To fee no foibles but then own ;
When deep humility of[pint.
The Jons of pride and gold inherit;
And universal love inspires
The breajli that mad ambition fires ;
Why then—and not before —you'llfee
The worldfrom lies and[lander free.
RECIPL. FOR A DUEL
I.EST the glimm'ring sparks expire,
Clap a bellows to the fire ;
Innuendoes furnifh fuel,
And insure the dying duel.
PRICE CURRENT— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
24/8 pr. 7.
>4/4
6 pr. Cents \
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 22f 110 do.
Indents 14 J 70
halt shares Bank Stock—lo6 per cent premium.
C—
123\ pr. cent.
7i£ do.
75 do -Joseph Anthony, & Son,
HAVE FOR VALE,
At their Store, No. 5, on CheJnut-Stir eet What J,
AFLW puncheons choice old Jamaica Spirits,
Grenada, St. KiOs and Nevis Rum,
Port-au-Prince, C«ipf-Francois and Surinam Molaflcs,
Coffee, Colon, and Pimento,
Hyson and Souchong Tea, of the fiift quality,
Cloves, Caflia, and Boston Chocolate,
Spermacacn Candles and strained Oil,
Salmon and picked Mackarel,
Boston Beef and Burlington Poik,
lvuflia and Boston Canvas,
A tew bales excellent Hops,
Myrtle Wax Candles,
St. Martin's Salt,
Madeira Wine, in pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks,
And a few cases old Batavia Arrack,
February 8, 1792.
Militia Fines.
THE Collectors of Militia Fines in the Citv and Liberties of
Philadelphia,and the diftri&s of Moyamcnfingand P.ifTyuiik,
are heieby required to colltft and pay into the County Treasury,
all arrearages of fines, and to fettle and deposit their books and
vouchers in my Office, at No. 61, Walnut-street, on or before the
fir it day of April next. Wherefore Notice is given, That im
mediately from the fa id fir ft day of April, all Collectors .who
fnall fail in complying with this requisition, will be proceeded
igainft according to law.
T*hila<J. Feb. 25,: 792.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A USTIN, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-War e ho use, two doors
south of Walnut-Urcet Wharf, adjoining their New Fa&ory—
where they have now made, and readv for faie, a general afloit
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET an BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englifli woikmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to anv manufa&ured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to mapufa&ure all the above articles ai
Richmond, in Virginia. Ail orders addrefled to either of tht
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully received, aud executed on the
lliorteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring M n, r the fur-
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments, will be given, means of conveyance being provided, an
houses for their reception.
For funher particulars enquire of MelTrs. Moses AuStin & Co.
at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. tf
Thirty Dollars Reward.
STOLEN on Thursday the 26th ult. a bright Bay HORSE,
with a Saddle and Bridle ; about 14 hands and an half* hiph,
a darkish snip reaching down his face to the end of his nose, a
little white on two of his feet, v- ith a white spot under his left eye,
about the fi2e of an English (hilling, hjs hind feet turn in, round
made, five veais old, trots and cantcrs well. Whoever takes up
/aid horse, so that the owner may get him again, (hall receive Fif
teen Dollars; or the above rewiid for the horse ana thief, pud by
the fubfenber, living in Pifcataway, about 9 miles from N( w-
Brunfwick, New-Jersey. BARZILL AI F. RANDOLPH.
Ftbru?>\ 22, 1792,
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters ot Elizabeth
River nt Virginia, to thole of Pafquotank in North-Carolina,
or tor conducing the work, will be leceived until the ninth day
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg ; Thomas
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bedingcr, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; by
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
abeut fix'.een miles; the country through which it will pass, is
swampy, free from stones, and covered with heavy wood. Tie
Can.i is to be thirty-two feet in width, and eight feet at least in
depth, below the furface of the earth, and capable of being navi
gated in dry seasons, by vessels drawing three leet water.
Good security will be required of contra&ors; and persons
making application to be employed as managers, mull produce
certificates (from ch:ira£fe/-s of refpettability) of their qualifications
for a buftnefsof this kind.
By orrier 'of the Prefulfnt and Directors,
WIII.I AM A. BAYLEY, Clerk.
(eptg.\ j
Norfolk, January 2f, 1795
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHM KIDD, late of the
Town (hip of Benfelern, :n the County of Bucks,
Esquire, deceafetl, purfuunt to the Directions
of his last Will a'nd Teltament.
ON' Tu< fday the 27th ol March next will be expofrd to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, on • <c p < miles— Oat exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing >out two
hundred and ninety-nine acr< , ,
which is erected a handsome t w'j-ftoi v br 1. k
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good
and other convenient outhouf 5
of grafted fruit, now in its prime; a l^rge
and in good order; and a (had nd lien ing fiIV.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a
dow, a large front on t e river, and runs ba«. k
One other very valuabK Fa; m, adjoining the above , coi ;
about two hundred and < ven acrts. :ne »:eateil no!
wood-lard. There are on this farm a good hot !, b' rn, flab ies,
and other outhouses, wiih a young thriving ore -aid of 1 the best
grafted fruit, and a shad and herring fii:, It has long been .»
well accustomed tavern; and the feriv b< ,*ingto it, known by
the name of Dunks'*, is noted for being well kep: and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the Left piofpc&s on the
liver, and are remarkably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about fixty-thrce acres, situ
ate in the township of.Souihampton, in the county aforefaid • on
which are ercfted two log-lvoufes. There is a small orchard and
a great fu!nciency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lor, containing four acres, situate on the great post-road
leading from PniladelvhiA to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a t>ood log d welling-houfe, and work-lhop ad
joining, with .1 well ol excellent waier at the door: now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame time and place, will he fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Fumiiure, Farming Utensils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. D. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchase
money to he paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments with intcreft.
]OHV SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBTT, £ Executors.
SAMUEL BENEZET, )
(rptm27)
[ep4w]
THOMAS PROCTER, L eu».
of the City and Liber ics.
•\ i;, - a iv. w
,ft»b
A good orch
•ft kind
'ell fenced
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Strect,ncXt door to the Bank, No. 97. -
To be SOLD peremptorily, at Public Vendue,on Wednesday
the 11th day of April next,
HPHE SEAT of the late Dotftor Lewis fohnflon,
-*■ deceased, in Pefth-Amboy, containing TWO HUNDRED
ACRES of LAND.
This place is bounded southerly for near a mile on the river
Raritan,ywhere it empties intoihe bay about 18 miles from Sandy-
Hook, and affords two most agreeable foliations lor
Seats. "1 iiere are now on it, two brick houses, with gardens, and
a good collection of truit trees ot the bell kinds. The land is v; ry
fertile, arid a great part of it very good meadow ; and from us situ
ation on the river, has the advantage of fvfh of different kinds, lu
their seasons, particularly ofoyftersand chicken clams, which may
be picked in great plenty on the flats before the doors. It is a
delightful, health v (ituation, capable of genteel and tasty improve
ments; and as Perth-Amboy is one ot the best sea-ports in the
United States, and within 18 miles of the sea, the proipeCl ot 11s
ncreafin£ in value from that circumstance, is by no means iucon
fiderable.
Theie wil' alio be foM, other Lots, within the bounds of the
city, arid about Five Hundred Acres of Land on the oppo(i r e fide
of the river Raritan—part of which is improved by a farm—on
which there is a framed dwelling-house and barn, with an orchard
of grafted apple trees, ?nd will contain about one hundred and
fifty acres; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, well
wooded 4iid timbered, and very convenient for supplying New-
York and other markets with timber for (hip build
and other lift s, the transportation by water being easy and
fof«'. The conditions will be made known at tiie day of sale,
ind the requisite conveyances made by
JAMES PARKER and) ~ n . .
bOWES REED, \ Trustees to the said Estate.
L'kewife to be SOLD, at the J&rnc tine and place,
ELEVEN ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
peity of the Pioprictors of Eft New-Jersey, wheie n the pio
prietary house lately stood. Theelegani situation of this spot is
Hardly to be equalled; it affords a grand profpett of Raritan
R y, and of the Bay formed by the waters of Raritan and Hud
»n's rivers, where they disembogue into the sea to the East—and
moll delightful one of the serpentine courfeof the Raritan river,
r several miles, through a rich tratt of meadow to the Weft!
The great quantify of stone neatly dre fled, and brick, the remains
rhe houle lately burned, will be nearly fufficient for a new
uilding; and a large stone cistern, and well of excellent waits,
with a very convenient ftabie and coach-house, will greatly leflrn
the ex pence of putting the place in order for the residence of a
Gent leman.— 1 here are few situations so eligible, particularly if
the fummcr season—when the cool sea breezes, and the elevated
filiations, render them places of pleasing retreat, from the confine
ment and sultry air of the fouthein Hates and nelghbouringcitics.
Perth-Amboy, Feb. 15, 1792. (ep6w)
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
ALL the landed estate of GEORGE WARNER Ace<*fed,cor
lilting of a valuable Plantation and tract of Timber Land,
fuppofcd to contain between four hundred and 450 acres, about
90 of which is plow-land and 15 of drained meadow. There is
on the farm a dweliing-houfe and kitchen, a cooper's lliop and a
large barn ; a well of water at the door, a good apple orchard.
The house ftaods close on a good landing belonging to the faia
prcmifes ; the reft of the land is well timbered and lies within
one mile of said landing, and an equal distance from a law-mill
and grift-mill and also of Quintal's Bridge, bounding 011 the
Main, Allaway's Creek, in the countv of Salem, five intles from
Salem Court-Houfe.
Any perfimthat is difpofcd to view or purchase the fai'd pre
mises, may fee the place and know the terms, by applying to
the fubfenbers near the fame. , °
MARK WILI ER and )
ANDREW MILLER, > Ax « u >o«.
SalemCtunty, ii mo. 13th, 1792.
N. B. There is Ukcwife a lot of Meadow ground of about 25
acres, adjoining lands of Abbott Sayrcs, and others, the properly
of said deceased, to be fold in manner as above, by the foid exe
cu,ors - [-P4w"|
lO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
A VALUABLE PLANTATION, the title indisputable, in
r \. 'hecounty of Glouceller, supposed to contain five hundred
and forty acrcs of Meadow Land and Cedar Swamp, fitnatc on a
branch of Little Ei;g-Harbour River, in the townftlip of Galloway.
There is on said piemifcs a frame house and kitchen, a small hay
houfeand liable. About sixty acres of the land cleared, and aboui
one hundred and ninety of woodland, and a cedar swamp, chief
ly well timbered, and about 300 acres of meadow (inteifperfed
with frefh water Sowing dreams) fufficient to supply one hundred
head of cattle.—The situation is allowed byjudges, to be capital
for railing ltock.—Any pcrfon inclining to purchase said Planta
tion, may have poffeflion from the 25th of March en(uing. The
terms may be known by applying to the fubferiber, living at
Quinton's Bridge, in the county of Salem; or a further dcfci p
tion may be had, by applying to Richard Wood, senior, in
Greenwich; or Joseph Sloan, Surveyor, near Hattonfield ; oJ of
Jam. s Scull, adjoining fatd lands.—The place above mentioned,
IS a pleafan' healthy country, within two miles of three grilt and
saw-mills : And three houles appropriated to divine wor ! ip, ate
about the fame diflance. Terms of payment made easy, by '
ANDREW MILLER.
e; on
Quia ton's Bridge, Sal m County,
2d mo. 13M, 1792.
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. .6, Pkar-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be teen every day, until Jive o'cloci, p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. IT OMER, Xenophun, Plato, Plutaich, Eufebius, Sozo.
1 1 men, Thcodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Patei
culus, Pliny, Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Sr. Thesaurus Ci
cerone. Bihlia Junii and TremelHUßible de Martin,Wells's Map;,
Scapula:— Phavoriui—Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, VoffiiEtymo
logicon, An; iquit. Eeclef. &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropidia, Bentley't Horace, Terence and
Ovid, Juvenal, Mamlius, Ciceronis op. om. Cafar, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, VolEi Ais Gram, c'luve
rii Geographia, Justinian Code, &c.
Oflavo el in) ra. Homer, Auacreon, Aristophanes, Longinus,
Theophraftus, Hrftod, Poet* minores Gr. Ifocr?tcs, Phalaris, va
rious editions 0/ Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus. Piau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Va!. Flaccus, Aufonius, Bucharan,
Saltuft,Cnrtius,Flows, Juftiii, Val. Majiimu*, A. Gcliius, Hifl
Auguii. Scriptores, Engtijh and French Truncations of {omen! the
Claflics, a great variety ol Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. &c.
fcT Catalogue? tnay be had of Meflrs. liice & Co. BookfcUers,
Market-street, or of JOIUiXARLY.
October 3 V. fep tf.j
356
t>p.i w ]
IMPERIAL HYSON,SCWC^OaNG,and BOBKA
T E A S,
REFINEI>SUGAR_S,COFFEE,&spiCES ( ic.i^
No 19, \
Thirrf-Strpet,bet ween Chefnut'and M a rk f^,rf „.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER
PURCHASES and SELLS '
PUBLIC DEBTofcverydefcripti
at the foiiownur «ates* '
oNlce!,,t0 Nl ce! , ,t. fpeCiearaoUnt 0f a " f3l " " auftion ."»'^Mpc t
On ditto at private falc or purchase, one-hall pcr C enr
On remittances, dnto
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one percent „„ .k
amount ot the inteieil. ' '' e
Ac ditto, Jiventy-fiv, cents pertr. ns f er
(p-Siich perlons as may incline to favor the fubferibtr wWI
m r ,° 7 J S Vr!V Cl r, lhnr being executed with
fidelity and diffyatck. His long experience and extensive deaS
in the public flocks, together with a well eltablilhed cerrefj,
dence throughout the Unued Slates, enable him tocouduaw
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTAKD,
New-York. No. 57. Kbtr-Str,,,
OBohr 15, 1791
War Department.
TNFORMATION is hereby given to ' 7 ? ? ' r ,
1 ot.hc United Slate;, that the sums to which they are iZki
for fix months of their annual pension, hom the 4 th day ol'Seo
tember, i 7 qi, and which will become due on the ,ih day of
March .792, will be paid on the fa.d day by the Comm.ffioner,
of the Loans within tl.e dates refpcdtively, under the ulual rttru
lations, v z. °
Every application for payment mud be accompanied by the
following vousher.c. 1
. .ft. The certificate given by the flatc, fpecifying that » fr .
son poifemng the fame is in fait an invalid, and afceriaimne the
lum to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form ;
A. B. came before me, one of tbe\Jufticesof i he county of
in the Hate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B t#
whom lire original certificate in his DoiTeflion was given of which
-he following is a copy (the certificate given by the state to be re
cited) That he served (regiment, corps or vellel) at the time he
was disabled, and that he now resides in the and cooaly of
-nd has resided there for the latt years, previous to winch hi
rended in <
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by an attorney,the
fa id attorney, befidesthe certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agre. ably to the followingform:
I, A. B. of county of itate of do hereby conilw
tu'e and appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my
behalf of my pension for fix months, as * \ invalid of the Un
ited States, from the fourth day of September, one thousand fevct
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and sealed
in the prefencc of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminirtrators rnuft he aecomm
nied With legal evidence of then refpe&ive offices, and also oi tb«
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refpeflive states are requeued to publii
the above 111 their newspapers, for the space of two months.
A LOTTERY,
TO raise tn* sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing the
Protestant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Btunlwick,
agreeable to an a£i of the Legislature of the State of New-Jet ley,
parted November 1791.
SC H E
1
1
2
5
10
3°
9°
*67 5
Prize of
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
0-3 This Lottery is composed of Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fuhjeft to a deduction of twelve ami an half per
ccnt. which is mare favorable to adventurers than any Lotteiy>et
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the mod
liberal support.
Tbe drawing will commence on <he second Monday in A aril,
or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of New-
Biunfwick, under the infpe£lion of Col. John Bayard, Prelident
of said city; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Amboy;
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Govefnor of the Manufafiur
ing Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had of the following persons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given security for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
|OHN PARKER, )
PETER K EE NO N, > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHIT V , )
N. B. Those prizes which are not demanded within fix niont>*>
a/ter the drawing of the Lottery, will be coufidered as a geueious
donation to the Church,
f'rvU'k.
Ncxv-Brwi
January ?o, 1792,
TO BE SOLD B Y THE EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving arn- paving Gold at the °' I'*
United States, (hewing the Value of Gold jd Dollar a»
Cents, frem One to a Thousand Pennyweights— according jo t <
Ast of Cpngref*, afeertaining the Standard and Value o* Go •
(j3" Blank Powersto recetvc thelnlcrelt,
principal of public debl y agreeable to the Rules ejUblifiediv t,er f e ..
fury Department': Alfe Blanksforabjiratis oJCertifiCulti-, iobtjv'*
At Editor.
The JOURNAL of the THtRD SESSION »f rieSlXtf
of the UNI TED STATES, may h hid of tht £d't»r h<ne{.
IC7* 7k e f>ric; of this Paper is 3 Dollars per <»">•
Q;:e'haif to bt paid at Suifcribb'g•
Witnesses.
M E.
Dollars is 200®
2C09
fiooo
1000
5 00
200
100®
1000
10 09
iy9
1800
6700
100
«5°
20
4
1600®
fgpyl.