A A-AHOXAL PAPER, PL'BI ISHED WEDNESDAYS AMI sATL~,KD
[No. 53 of Vol. IV.]
To the Free nrd fajepetdent F.leftun of
PItESiaENT and VICE-PRESIDENT
or THE UNITED STAILS
OtNTL e MEN",
YOUil country has designated you with pe
culiar liotiour in entrnfting you with the
election of her chief magiftratcs. You could
rot iit.ve been called forth 011 a more impor
tant occaSon for the exercise of your patriot
ifin, your frmnefs, and your independence.
The United States are deeply intcrefted in the
ilue of your determination. The mode of
your appointment prt. hides the fufpirion of
any undue biafs on ;-our mind*!, and gives us
good reason to eipjifl, vour decilion will be
favorable to the prosperity of our riling em
"ire.
With refpefl to the fir ft of these officers, it
is presumed, tnere will be 110 division : but
from the public prints it appears, that great
exertions are made to flivide your opinions
about the second.
In important national qtieftions, tuifrepre
fcntations often biafs the public mind, and
party interells create divisions, calculated on
ly to fitblerve the designs of demagogues and
temporizing politicians, who strive to seduce
tlie/afjeftions of the people from their real and
fiibftantial friends, ami to erect their own
fame upon the fall of those whom they have
•umpired to ruin.
Superior merit is peculiarly the object of
•nvy —Contracted minds delight in coHeiting
the failings of others, that they may mak* a
facrifice to their own pride ; and as the best
ef men are fubjeft to imperfection, no one is
feciire from the attacks of malevolent e.
Thus men of quire exceptionable characters
have it in their power to afperfa the most il
laftrious personages; and even " they who
could pever boast of their own perfection, ijor
laife their thoughts beyond the earth they
tread—
i«" theft can cenftat, those cm dare deride
A Bacon's avarice, tr a TuUy's pride.''
Men of modesty submit to the calumny, with-
eut attempting to repel the darts of their ad-
verfariej. Conscious of the purity of their
intentions, they confide in the justice of their
country, and entrust their reputation to the
J'eafon of calmer times and ■ more impartial
As a total silence, however, is liable to be
conftrueei into a consciousness of guilt, it be
«»raes a duty on the real friends of the coun
try, toexpofe the mifreprel'entations of par
ly, and to ex'iibit an impartial representation
ofthings to the unbialled judgment of the
public.
With these views, gentlemen, I beg leave
to join a large proportion of my fellow-citi
zens in recommending to your choice, as Vice-
Prefideot, John Adams, J.. L. I). A gen
tleman, a native of the United States, a wor
thy member offociety, of innocent manners
and excellent moral character— A man of
genius and extensive erudition* j an eminent
lawyer, politician and civilian j a warm triend
to civil and religious li'oerty ; an early and
decided patriot ; a ftrenaous advocate lor
the rights oi his country ; a faithful defender
ot her insulted privileges, and an undaunted
and vigorous opponent of the encroachments
and tyranny of the Britilh parliament—One
who influenced by his example, convinced,
perfumed and animated by his writings; who
repol ed danger by his vigilance and activity,
frultrmed the de/igns of cur enemies by his
enlightened councils, and defeated their belt
conceited plan?—-One whose superior loul,
g.ownig with the ardent flame of hberty, dif
ained tlie notice of difficulties deemed in
lurniouiUabJe by inferior minds, and contem-
P ating the resources of his country, fought
wit.i eager expe&ation the ilTue of the im
pending contest -One who regarded his
wealth, his fame and life itfelf as the proper
ty o hi S country, and to advance its interests,
▼o untarily hazarded them on the precarious
event oi the unequal war—One whose gene
rous ipirit was never fubjeft to the controul
*')g influence of avarice or felf-intereft, but
virtue a- d wlifintereftednefs shone nuft
ernir.entiy in times of trial and danger, in
nnes when the efforts of avowed enemies
ann t.e treachery c f falle friends Ihook the
-tjonol oul * hopesand threatened our
e ruction, and whoie fortitude inspired our
"!?. w ' t ." and fupporfed the lan
ui ng Spirits ot his countrymen in the
r ( d f' C /? lon °! tlie rcv °lotion—A delegate
on tl' e * r cont,nenta ' and a leader
li'(Jr! egl , whidi gave birth to the
JA, y a " il^ at,0 »al exiftenre of this country
roop n fn ' a^or t0 Afferent powers of Eu
..Wh^negotidtions the United States
i* t}lC acknowie dgment of their
UniteH nC v b 7 the States-General of the
treat- . * IK * 8 » f° r the completion of a
Dnhllr afl V tyand c °nimerce with that re
for P rinc; P' es c ** reciprocal advantage,
tiie f, rocurenieil t of a fcafonable loan for
(Sl: our credit an(i 'elief of cur
yi]r t ' eni) . ; r,a " ce ' ! ' lor tl,e enlargement of
&id in r ->" r tllc lecur 't}'°f our fifheries,
letovp- L ' OP w ' th honorable col
tnc of the article?, of
- haune tre >ty ot'p;acc— A nan, v. hose
Saturday, December i, 17^2.
virtue and talents procured him a gracious
reception at foreign court., and whose em
bassy was rewarded with fibular fucceft ;
who was courted bv men ofeinincnce and re -
pefebility, and received an honorary mark
ofdiflinftion from the citizens of the metro
|»ohs in which be refilled, as a testimony of
their veneration and eltecni—A man who
undertook the defence of tl'.e Confiitiitioi.s of
his country, in opposition to principles un
fnendiy to go ,d government, and to an o
p;nion at that time entertained of their being
incompetent to the p;efcrv«tt:on of <.i; ■:
berty A man whose uniformity and consist
ency of character demonstrate the goodtiefs of
his principles, and whose conduct fVom the
beginning of the war has been one uniform se
ries of public services, and to whose perse
vering indultry and unabating zeal (lis coun
try is as much indebted as to any of her funs
—A man who is the delight of his friends, a
olefling to society, and an honor to his coun
try ; whose pad services have a claim (as far
as merit can claim) a right not only to the
gratitude, but tliejuftice ot his country, and
whose prefe.it preix-mlans derly. ftrcß.-tli
from a comparison with those of his com-
petitorj.
Such, gentlemen, is the character, and liich
the merits of tot chai after I recommend to
your choice. This description is taken either
from known and avowed facts, or documents
in the poflcffion of the public, an-i to whi«h
tbey are referred for its authenticity. Weigh
the pre ten (ions of tiie refpeftive candidate's
contrast their characters, and let reason decide
the contest. But let not Athenian inconstan
cy dil grace our councils; let not the fate of
the heroic Belifarius or iliuftrions Columbus
be realized by an American citizen, nor our
annals flamed with more than Roman or Spa
nish ingratitude. PHILANTHROPOS
ABSTRACT of an Estimate of the Expenditures for
the i'vtl Lift of lie United States, together with
the incidental and contingent Expences of the fe
veral Departments and Offices, jo- the Year , T L
as reported h the Secretary of the Treajury to the
tiouje of Kcprrfaitativiir '
PRtM DEN T's falaty, 25,000 dollars. Vice-
Prtfidcm's ditto, 5 000. Chief Justice of
the United States. 4 coo. F,ve Affoeiate fudirs
at3st.od.jU. eacn, ,7.500 dolj. Amount ot
lalaries to the Judges ot the several difliitts of
the United States, 5,, 7 00 d 0!.,. Amount of
compensations to the members of the Senate
House of Representatives, and their officers'
143,591 dols. Treasury Department, 55050 dois.'
Department of Stat , 6300 dols. Department
of War, 11,250 dols. Board of Commifliom-s
tor the fefrlcmcnr of accounts between the Unit,
ed States and individual Statu, 13.300 dollar-,.—
Amount of compensations to the Loan-Ofiircr,
for thirteen States, 13,250 dols. Governor'., sa
lary, Judges' salary, compcnhiions to the other
officers, and contingent expences ol the govern
mentofthe Weftcrn Territory, 11,000 dols —
Amount of pensions, including (hat of the Ba
ron de S.eubcn, 5267 dols. 73 centj. For inci
dental and contingent expences relative to the
civil-lift eflfhUftimeiu, 20,263 dols. 60 cents.—
Total of the eftitnatc of expenditures for the ci
vil-l.ft for 1793, 352,466 doll*', and 39 cents.
Additional eftimatc for making good defici
encies for the support of the civil-lift eftabliffi.
ment; for aiding the fund appropriated for the
payment of certain officers of the courts, jurors
and wttneffis; foi the support of light-houses ;
and for the cftablifhment of ten cuttcs, and for
other purposes.—Total 92,599 dols. 66 cents.
General eftitnatc of the expences of the War
Department for the year 1793. Pay of the legion
of the United States, 304,308 dols. Snbfiftence
312,567 dols. 75 cen s. Forage, 34.856 dols!
Cloathing, 112,000 do!s. Equipments for ca
valry, 5000 dols. Horses for cavalry, 5000 dols.
Bounty, 15,240 dols. Delemive proteftiou of
the frontiers by the militia, 50,000 dols. Hos
pital department 25,000 dols. Quarter-master's
department, 10c,000dols. Indian Department,
50,000 dols. Ordnance Department, 23,8 5
dols. 52 cents. Invalids, 82,245 dols. 32 cents.
I.ease of the buildings occupied for the War-
Office, &c. 1,666 dols. 66 cents. Contingencies
of the war department, 50.000 dols. Total ex
penfesof the war depart ment for 1793,1,171,719
dols. and 5 cents.
Comparative ftarcmcnt of expenditure and reve
nue to the end of the year 1793, as reported
by the Secretary of the Treafut y to the House
of Representatives.
EXPENDITURE
Amount from the commencement
oi the year 1 791, to the end of the
year 1*792, as stated in a report
to the House of RrpreP-ntatives Dels. Ctr.
of the 23d of January last, 74
Additional appropriation for the
war department, per ast of rhe
2d of May, 1792, for raising a
further sum of money for ihe pro
tection of the frontiers, &c. 673.500
Appropriations by an ast of the
Bth of May, 1792, intitled, an ast
making certain appropriations
therein fpecified,
Monies lequifite by estimate for
the current service of 1793,
Interelt on the public debt for the
fame year,
Tola! expenditait, 12.306,175
209
Ways and Means.
proauft of duties on imports
and tonnagefatthe year 1791, as
Dinof' a 7-M V?ir , J9 2, a. eft,- 3,403,195 '*
mated,
Ditto tor the year 1793,
Ditto of dutirson spi
rits for one half year of 1791,
Ditto for 1792,
Ditto tor 1793,
Surplus which v" probablv rf.
mrin uncxpt nde ! of the sum*
appropria.ed for*, te war depart
ment for 1792,
Foreign Affairs.
LONDON, September 23.
Capitulation oj the town of Verdun by the King of
PRUSSIA.
ON the ift of September, the Duke of
Brunfwick wrote to the Defenfive Council of
that he wonld grant the garrison -a
' e ' t'-' P' l; ' 'r'.'t' the f.nvu f;om a .' - ""a!
devatation, and leave the inhabitants time to
i eflei on the Capitulation which he offered
them, viz. Liberty to the Garrison to retire
with arms and baggage, within the space of
tweity-four hour';.
Smday, the 2d, the command of the place
being vacant by the unexpected death of M.
H?urtpaire ; who blew out his brains in full
Counfcii, when he saw, that forced bvthe in
habitants to surrender the place, he'could no
lons* defend himfeif honorably ; the Defen
five Council, and afterwards the Adminiftra
tiveEody, " Considering that the place had
now io longer any means of defence, that the
enemy, from his position, continually bom
bardng the town, would burn all the hoiifes,
whife the gunners could do no active service,
havi»g but one man to a gun ; considering
that it was more advantageous to the French
nation to preserve a garrison of three thou
sand five hundred men, who according to the
capitulation offered, might leave the place
with all the honors of war; confide! ing also
the state of despair, which the inhabitants of
the town were in to fte the quarter pan of
««», ~0010, i>urnt; ana who atin.ruret, to
capituiatc, have, from these, and feverai other
motives mentioned in their resolve, consented
to, and accepted the capitulation, of which
this is an exact copy. M. Nyont, the now
Commandant of the place hnving written to
the Duke of Brunfwick to that effect."
THE sentiments of humanity and genero
sity which animate his Prufiian Majesty, have
induced him to prefer gentle means to the
evils of war, and wishing to spare the inha
bitants of Verdun from the misfortunes of an
attack, made by order of his Serene Highness
the Reigning Duke or Brunfwick, Marshal
General and Commander of the Armies of his
Majesty, the undersigned grants to the Com
mandant of the laid town of Verdun, the fol
lowing conditions :
Art. I. The garrison, meaning all the
troops which compose it, without exception,
fhallgoout of the gate of France, in such
numbers as they chufe, with arms and bag
gage, and fliall retire from t'le place to such
stations as they desire to go. Pruflian con
duftorj shall guarantee them from all insult
whatever.
11. Tiiofe who cliufc to go out bv t'ie cause
way-gate, or St. Viislor, ihall alfb have per
ini'fion, and be under the protefiion of his
Prufltan Majesty as far as Metz.
m. Carriages shall be afforded gruis to the
garri'on, as fir as the firft station which they
(hall have cholen ; if they prefer the wag
gons of the King, they (hall be granted, on
condition of their being sent back from Cler
mont, or from any firft station whence they
may bs returned by the carriages of the coun
try. ' (
IV. All the inhabitants of the town and
neighborhood are from this moment nnder the
protection of his Prussian Majesty, on conditi
on that they deliver up the arms of the state,
colours, and ammunition. '
V. The Council •of War (hall give to a Pruf
fian.Officer deputed for that purpose a state
of the magazines, and every thing belonging
to them, as they are at this time.
VI. The officer of the artillery (hall give
aftatement of the artillery and ammunition.
The officers of the garrilbn who will pass
thk vrp.y aa private persons to return home,
(halUmvj permission ; the officers and troops
which cannot set off to-day, and do not depart
till to-morrow, (hall be under the special pro
tection of fail Majesty ; if the garrison paJles
through a gate occupied by the Pru(fians,they
lhall pafj till the day after to-morrow, on the
conditions of the capitulation, and if any of
tfc* members of the ga'rrifon return as private
they (hall be treated as such:
KALKERETH.
84.497 90
AtVtrdnv, Sept. 2, 1792.
I, the uniierfigned, certify the authenticity
of the above pieces, <?- r c. ike.
Chohwy Sept. 4, 1792-
The of Mavenne and Loire.
L. LEMOINfc.
1,616,785 10,
2,859,194 73
Total ways and mean* 1^,39)19518
f, PHILADELPHIA.
[Whole No. 375.]
TJve flowing :s a literal Copy of the Letter
Sw e t Uu C e tJ *" Co ~
denring to change his name.
letter Jrom ln a „ H,//,p to the
Jional Council of I'aiis.
Paris, the 14th September, 4th Year of
« 0 rty > 'ft of equality.
oI R j
" The Electoral Bodv, of which I am a
Me.njsr, ha? been aflo, iflied that the Sec
tion of La Butte des Mnulins ha; inscribed
mfon th, 1,4 ct :« E'»ch>r-, t rJe , t
of Oi leans, which I have never J, f,nc
the Decree of the Constituent Assembly, and
have appeared to wi(h me to take my family
name. It is already a long time since my
love for equality, which has always prevent
ed me from takingthe title of a FrenchPrinc
would have made me adopt this measure, iff
hada family name; but I donot know my name.
am oq this account very much embarraffei
to fatisfy the desire of my fellow-citizen,, cu
j , "wans of making invfeif and m< cbii
die.i known—l do not know how otherwise
to relieve myfelf f ron , this embwrafinent,
than by addrefrg myfelf Common, of
the City, of which I am a citizen. I hope
therefore, Sir, that you wiU be good enough
to make this demand for me. I fhali b> ve?y
thankful that they will not disdain to di 'tate
to me what I ought to do on this occasion. I
pray the Commons alio to ttive to the House
that I inhabit, a name different from that'-
which it bears.
" X am, Sir, with great br o tl.erh«ud,
" Your fellow-citizen,
3.900,000
4,000,000
is:',oco
400,000
400,000
140,000
Letter from the Cortmovs of Paris to lit ti-detu.nl
Duke oj Orleans.
" CITIZEN,
" The Council General has fern, in the
manifeftation of your civic ftntiments, a new
proof of your love for liberty. Thev think
it their duty to reward the zeal with which
both in the commencement offb» revolution
and even before that periocf, y OJ supported
the cause cf the people. They are therefoi s
of opinion that ihey cannot be'ftow upon
a more g'.orioits name than that of E?alite.
*-e Representatives of the Common!
Aiitt'tCi tiMMi'. dvitfit i « in** y-it&i
children will ever do any thing to make yoa
forfeit this glorious name. It iir.pofes on yr>'j
great duties ; you will dojbt'efs discharge
them; and the French nation, after having
justly profcr bed the family of the Bourbons,
will recollect with pleasure that one of th
members of that family was a citizen, and
save his children an education to fit them to
become the defenders 01 liberty and equality."
A Court-martial commenced on board the
Duke, on Weduefday the l Jth instant, on a.
c'large of mutiny on the 28th of April, 1787,
on board his Majesty's armed veflel Bounty,
for running awav with the (hip and deferring
his Majesty's fervicc, a-ninft Joseph Coleman,
Charles Norman, Thomas Mackintosh, Peter
Haywood, [faac Morris, John Milward, Wil
liam Mufpratt, Thomas E rkett, Thomas
Ellifon, and Michael Byrn. The evidence
for the prosecution closed on Friday night the
14th infV. and the Court indulged the prison
ers till Monday to give ia their defence, and
on TuefiSay took the whole into their consi
deration, when they were pleated to pass sen
tence of death on Haywood, Morris, Mill
ward. Mufpratt, Birkett, and Ellifon, the two
firft of which the court recommended to mer
cy. Coleman, Norman, Mackintoft, and
Byrn, were acquitted and discharged. Mr.
Haywood is an accomplished young gentle
man, genteely connected, with a fortune of
33,000!. fallen to him since he has been in
confinement.
The appointment of Mr. Shore to he Go
vernor-General of India, is truly curious.—
It departs entirely from the system wßich
seemed to have been adopted on the going out
ofEarl Co-nwallis, and v, as again acted upon
within thres months past, in the offer made
to a noble and most r<-fpe&able Ear!, viz.—
That the Governor General of India ihoqld
henceforth be a Peer of Great Britain.
We know also that Mr. Shore mult hare
yielded to earnest solicitation, for he was by
no means ambitious of such an appointment.
A man of more inflexible integrity never was
in India ; and perfectly content with his for
tune, he did not aspire to high firuation, Md
Teemed to have totally retired from ferrltfo.
However it may have originated, and what
ever may be its view, we are sure ttiat tin
Company's affairs will derive great
from his attention to, and knowledge of tbeic
finances.
Thursday a meeting was held at the Frwf-
Masons tavern, of the noblemen and gentle
men who favor the plan adopted fur the relief
of the French clergy, refugees in thii country,
when it was proposed, that an application
should be made to government, to appropri.
ate foch public boildings as they fiiaU think
fit for their reception ; which was carrier-
It appears, that have already been
AS fcritet
" J- P- JOSEPH."CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF R£PK£S£XTATII'£S-
Tuesday, 20.
Debate on the Refolntion offered by Mr. Pltz-
Cinons, on the 19th, refpe&ing a Reduc
tionof the Public Debt «Scc.
(CONCLUDLD.)
MR. Ames.
IT is so falhionable to introduce the funding
fyftem upon every occasion ; it would per
haps appear llrange to fay, that it is out of order
up.in any. To my mind and probably to molt
gentlemen' present, it will be difficult to per
ceive, that the question before us bears any
relation to that iubjeit, or to the frontier-bill,
the excise, the perpetual taxes, the encourage
ment of manufactures, and many other topics,
which, somehow or other, have been interwo
ven with the debate. At this late hour of the
day, and in so wearisome altage of the question,
I may be .permitted to decline any further no
tice of thel'e auxiliary fubjeiSs.
The great end we have in view, is the paying
off the public debt—This obje&, truly import
ant in itfelf, unites the best sense and ftrongell
wishes «f the country. It is oUr duty to provide
means for the aecomplifament of this end. All
agree that a plan is neceflary. Tt must be fram
ed with wisdom tnddigeiied with care, so as to
operate with the greatest effect, till the whole
debt ihall be extinguished. The true question is,
which is the best mode of framing this system.
Several modes have been preferred by different
persons—some advocate the appointment ot a
i'eledt committee of thishoufe, others insist that
the hoafe in committee of the whole, is the on
ly proper mode, while others who defend the
original motion, delirc to have apian prepared,
and submitted by the fecrctary of the treasury.
It may obviate the force of many of the argu
ments we have heard to remark, that it is not
asserted that either of the several modes is iri
trinfically incapable of effe&ing the purpose. It
would be improper to fay, that a commit
tee could not be formed who would be able to
collet the materials for an exact knowledge of
the fubjeJt; and who, after acquiring that
knowledge, would be able to form a found
judgment. Neither would it be just or relpe«sl
ful to deny, in the abftradt, the capability of
the house in committee to digest such a plan.
But the question Hill returns, which of the three
methods is the best to begin with ? Neither this
house nor a fele& committee are pretended to
l>e already poffelTcd of the knowledge which is
requisite to the framing a fyftcm for a finking
fund. The*very materials from which this know
ledge is to be gleaned, are not in the possession
of this house—they are in the treasury depart
ment. Neither the curiosity nor the legislative
duty of members leads them to resort daily to
the treasury to iriveftigatc official details; and -
even if it were so, the officer at the head of the
department, having his mind incessantly occu
pied with his official bufincfs, must be admitted
to possess a more familiar and ready, if not a
more ample, knowledge of the fubjed:.
Indeed the situation of the secretary of the
treasury isip evidently favorable to his digesting
the plan of a finking fund, that it seems unne
ceifary to urge it even to thofewho areoppofed
to ihe reference For their obje&ions, imply the
preference of the mode in point of expediency
as strongly as thofewho explicitly, recommend it.
They fay, the plan of the secretary will come
forward with too much advantage.
Members, fay they, not having the aid of
those means of information which the secretary
pofTelfes, will not be able to resist the train of
reasoning with which he will introduce his plan.
It is even expressly admitted, that the informa
tion of the treasury department i 6 necessary and
must be called for; but they would not receive
it with the reafouing of the secretary. Without
wafting time to prove this point, common
sense will decide instantly, that the knowledge
*>f our financial affairs, and of the means of im
proving them, is ro be obtained the most accu
rately from the officer whose duty it is made by
our own law to understand them; who is ap
pointed and commissioned for that very purpose,
and to whom every days pra&ice in his office
must ;..Tord some additional information of offi
cial details, as well as of the operation of the
laws. The arguments on both fides end in the
fame point, that the information of the secre
tary would be ufeful. Our obje& being to pre
fer that mode of preparing a plan, which is a
dapted to present us the best ; the argument
might end here, if it were not that the constitu
tion is alledged to forbid our resorting to the
secretary,
I reverence the conflitution, and I readily ad
mit that the frequ«nt appeal to that as a stand
ard pioceeds from a refpe&ful attachment to it.
So far it is a source of agreeable reflection. But
I feel very different emotions, when J find it
almost daily refortcd to on questions of little im
portance V\ hen by strained and fanciful con
ftru&ions it is made an inflrument of casuistry,
it is to be feared it may lofc fjmething in our
minds in point of certainty, and more in point
of dignity.
And what is the clause of the constitution op
toofed to the receiving a pi: of a finking fund
from the feeretary ? Bills for r.iifm* revenue Jh,ll
in tbit teuft. I verily believe the mem
bers of this hotife, and th? citizeps at large,
would be very much furprifedto hear this clause
of the conHitution formally and gravely ftitei
as repugnant to the reference to the treasury
department, for a plan, if they and we had not
been long used to hear it.
To determine the force of this amazing con
stitutional objection, it will be fuflicient to de-
fine terms.
Wkat is a bill ? it is a term of technical im
port, and surely it cannot need a definition; it
is an a& in an inchoate state, having the form
but not the authority of a law.
What is originating a bill ? our rules decide
it. Every bill {hall be introduced by a motion
for lejve, or by a committee.
It may be said the plan of a finking fund, re
ported by the fecrctary, is not in tflhukal, or
even 4 in popular language, a bill —nor, by the
rules of the house or those of common fenle, is
this motion the originating a bill. By resorting
to the fpir it of the constitution, or by adopting
any reasonable cotiftruilion of the clause, is it
poflibleto make it appear repugnant to the pro
portion for referring to the secretary ? The op
pofers of this proposition surely will not adopt
a conllrudlion of the constitution. They have
often told us, we are to be guided by a ftri&
adherence to the letter; &that there is no end to
the danger of conftrucSlioiw. The letter is not
repugnant; and will it he seriously affirmed,
that, according to the spirit and natural meaning
of the constitution, the report of the secretary
will be a revenue bill, or any other bill, and
that this proposition is originating such a bill ?
If it be, where shall we stop ? If the idea of a
measure which firfl partes through the mind, be
confounded with the measure subsequent to it,
what confufion will ensue ? The President, by
fuggelting the proposition, may as well be pre
tended to originate a revenue bill; evert a news
paper plan would be a breach of the exclusive
privilege of this house, aud the liberty of
press, so julUy dear to us, would be found un
constitutional. Yet, if, without any crder of
the house, the draught of an a& were printed
and a copy laid before every member in ais feat,
no person will venture to fay, that it is a bill,
that it is originated or can be brought urder the
• cognizance of the house, unless by a m>tion in
conformity to the rules and orders. The report
of the secretary in regard to manufa&ires, so
often adverted to, has not yet been a&ert upon,
does that appear on our journals as a bill? Lan
guage has not yet been perverted to fucn a de
gree, as to afTert any such thing; and jet the
constitutional obje&ion implies opinions no less
extraordinary.
I rely upon it, that neither the letter of the
constitution, nor any meaning that it canoe tor
tured into, will support the objection which has
been so often urged with solemn emphalis and
perfevaring zeal.
If the constitution be admitted, therefore, to
authorize the reference to the why
should not the mode which is proved to be the
most expedient be immediately adopted ? Here
we meet another obie&ion. It is said that the
legislative and executive branches of gO\ftJrnment
are to be kept diftinit, and this reference will
produce an improper blending of them. It is a
truth that these departments are to be kept dif
tin& ; but the conclusion drawn from it is alto
gether vague. The execution of every trust re
quires some deliberation, and many of them call
into a&ion the highest powers of the h\iman
mind, and the-moft intense and persevering ap
plication of them—yet these trusts are to be ex
ecutively performed, and it by no mi/aiw follows
that the officer charged with them invades the
deliberative congress. On the other
hand, many laws are the result of plain princi
ples or parts of the constitution, and co"hgrefs,
by ena&ing them only execute the constitution
Yet here is no encroachment upon the executive
branch. The truth is, the constitution has allot
ted powers to tfhe several branches of the go
vernment, and by that rule we are to judge of
their several limits. The President proposes
measures to the legiflaturc in conformity to the
constitution—yet no one ever supposed that his
doing so is a departure from a just theory ; notf
has it., as far as I know, been ever insinuated till
of late, in this or any other country that the
calling for information from oncers, any more
than the calling for testimony from witnelfes a
mounts to a transfer of our legislative duty, It
is veryeafy to conceive how much increased in
formation may aid us in deliberating, but it is
hard to difcernhow we are to profit by the want
of it. It is true it is our peculiar province to de
liberate, but neither the letter of the constituti
on, nor the law cftablifhing the treasury depart
ment, nor the reason of the cafe have restrained
us from calling fqr official information. It is
not true in fa& thatthe deliberative and execu
tive departments are blended by referring to the
Secretary. Any obje&ions tlcduced from ah
over-refining theory, and not warranted by the
constitution, might need an answer if we were
now framing a government, but can have ho
force in the administration of one. Indeed, it
is a very scholastic, and very imposing mistake
to abandon the letter and meaning of thj plan
of government we a& under, and to undertake
to reason independently, as if we were now fett
ling the institutes of a political treatise.
The expediency ef this question of referring
to the Secretary, which i« brought iutcHliJptrte
involves in it many others which will admit of
none. In framing the plan of a fluking fund is
the officer at the head of our finances to have a
ny agency ? If it be said he is not, then, it may
be demanded—why is an idle officer and an use
lef< office kept up ? The sense of mankind as
well as the practice of nations seems to {hew that
where there are finance" there (hould be a finan
cier; thatbefhouldpolTefs atleafl common talents,
and more than common industry in the applica
tion of them to his duty.
.This is not a point to be proved now for the
firft time. The law of the old Congress and their
practice were conformable to this motion. We
210
hear very often of the people being opposed to
these references. So far as I have been inform
ed the opposition is a novelty. The law estab
lishing the treasury department, pafled by a great
majority, and that expressly makes it the duty
of the Secretary to prepare and report'plans of
finance : Scarce a *'hifper of objection was then
heard in the house, and not one, I believe, in the
country. Our own practice of referring has
pafled unrefifted till of late. Gentlemen now
opposed tD this reference, have contended open
ly and ftrenuoull) for references, in one in fiance,
if I recolleil rightly, to the Attorney-General
to revise a plan of the judicial department, and
on another to require the Secretary of ft ate to
report on the means for improving ourtrade and
navigation. Th.'fe obje&s partake as much of
legislation, and are as incommunicable as the
fubje& in difcuflion. The former votes and ar
guments of the gentlemen opposed to theprefent
reference, afford some proof of its fitnefs as well
as constitutionality,
The intrinsic reasonableness of this pra&ice is
not less than its authority from law and prece
dent, and what is more the precedent of its op-
posers.
Private affairs prosper by skill, economy, and
intjuftry ia the management of them. The fi
nances of a nation, though infinitely more im
portant, require nothing more than economy up
on a great scale. Let the monied affairs of a
country be made every body's bufinef-, and no
body will do it:—Would you have them pros
per, let them be confided to one man, who how
ever shall be under the ftri<sfc controul of the law,
and rigidly responsible for his doings. That man,
if he loves an honest reputation as much as a
man of common sense and feeling may be ex
pe&ed to do, will make the public business his
own, he will put his chara&er at rilk—his time
and all his talents will be dev»ted to the public.
Such will be his dispositions—now what will be
his opportunities to render service? He will have
atone view before him the whole arrangements
of finance—the imports and exports, the receipts
and expenditures, the operation of the laws, the
obstacles that impede the colle<stion, and the
means of improving it; the frauds committed or
attempted on the revenue, & the checks to guard
it—the well-founded obje&ions against the law,
and the prejudices which time or conciliatory
conduct may efface, the appropriations of the
revenue—the places where and terms on which
loans may be obtained, as well a the state of fo
reign trade; the regulations of foreign nations,
and perhaps it may be added in subordination to
the chief Magistrate, the state of treaties and
negotiations. It will be seen that the ordinary
discharge of his duty, as well as that which wilj
oblige him sometimes to conflitft against preju
dices, and sometimes against fraud, will render
the details of finance familiar to him, and will
almost force him to adopt plans for reducing this
great mass into system and order.
Is it to bed nicd that, in confluence, he will
poflefjs fotne mfeans of information which this
house or a committee mud acquire only by flow
and laborious investigation? In piirfuing it the
time might fall, and the materials get confufed.
Yet,allowing it cffe&ed, they have gained no
more than it is his duty to furnifh on the order
of this house, and this is what we are contending
for. If we call for it and he is not able to giveit,
we shall thus expose his incapacity or negligence.
The public opinion, thus enlightened, will soon
displace the officer, and a fitter man will suc
ceed him. In this way, the people will exercise
an effective controul over their servants.
Be the information given by the officer what
it may, the sources from which his inferences are
drawu, his fa&s and reasonings are publicly ex
posed. They are equally in poffefiion of every
member, who is thus placed on an equal, and on
the best footing to attack or defend the report.
As much cannot be said of the report of a fe
le& committee or a committee of the whole.
Thole who arc opposed to receiving plans from
the secretary, mention the firft; impofc a£t as a
fuccefsful instance of proceeding without the as
sistance of the treasury. To this it is replied,
that there is no analogy between that cafe and
this in debate. Then the treasury law had not
passed, and if that department had been then or
ganized, it could not have given the kind of in
formation which is requisite at present. The re
ceipts, expenditures and appropriations, all our
systems and all our experience have occurred
since that time. We had, in forming the im
port, smooth ground to pass over, and the aid
of all th« local knowledge and local feelings of a
representative body : yet it will not be said that
the success of the proceeding affords much en
couragement to adopt a similar courfy on this
occasion. We began that a<st in April, and tho*
we were losing revenue every day, we did not
complete it till near August: the cmbarralTment
was pot less than the delay. the want of accurate
information produced errors and revisions, and
incefiant struggles; and parts of the a & were re
pealed, it is well known, soon after its passage.
It has been intimated, that in framing a report
the Secretary would be liable to mifinformationß
to some local or other attachments. Thij is pos
sible, for he is n man—but will the committee be
free from it? The Secretary is answerable for his
conduvsl to the nation, and certainly he is not
more fubjeA to local partialities than members
are to their refpe&ive diftri<fls. The advantage
of impartiality in the fir.ft concoction of a report
ieemsto be evidently in favour of a reference.
It has been said on the other fide, information
may be wanted, it is true, from the Secretary,
but let the house firlt make progress ill the busi
ness, and then receivc it by a committee advis
ing with the Secretary. If this may be done,
what becomes of the conflitutioHal difficulties
and all we have heard of the transfer of our
deliberative power ?
But, if we are to have the official information,
why fliou'd we set out without it? why ftould
it not be given openly, so as to put all the mem
bers oil an equality, and before prepofleffions are
formed with regard to plans, which might make
* late report from-the treasury appear t0 Mtn .
m aid of one party or another? Would the ft v e
of declamation be less Vehement against the k ex
communication, of a secretary with the commit
tee, than agamtt a report made in the face of dav
and fubjetf to the criticilm not only of this lo,ufc'
but of an enlightened nation ? ' '
It is not to my present design to ask for what
pnrpofe of argument or of candour it is so often
mfinuated that the queflion really is, whether
this hct.fe fliall legislate, or whether it fliall tranf
fer, the powei of making laws, to the secretary
of the treasury. 7
With all this official information, previouflv
before Us, are we less qualified, or worse dri'oof
eel to deliberate ? It would be extravagant to af
firm; that in proportion as oUr means of infor
mation arc made complete, we are worfc situat
ed to legiilate ; and as to the spirit of enquiry,
I do not lemcoiber that the reports of the secre
tary have blunted it. From the manner in which
they have been difcufled heretofore, those Gentle
men will confide in the aflfurancc I venture to
give them, that they will be thoroughly'fifted.
They have not always passed unaltered and ne
ver without palling through the fire of a debate.
We may repeat it, therefore, what cdiour so
there for faying that the secretary legislates?
neither my memory nor my underllandihg can
discern any. lam wdl aware, that no topic is
better calculated to make popular impreflions;
but I cannot persuade myfelf, that the people wil|
charge us with negled or violation of duty, for
putting ourselves into a situation to discharge ic
in the best and mod circumfpeft manner.
There is another ground of obje&ion which i 3
urged against the reference : —it is said, it gives
undue influence to the treasury. The reasonings*
of the secretary, which accompany his reports,
are alledged to excite an influence which cannot
berefifted. There are two forts oF influence
one, which arises from weight of reason/and the
Intrinsic merit of a proportion ; the other, per
sonal influence. As to the former, it is hard te
conceive of the influence of reasoning, which can
not be analysed and made capable of exad es
timation by the reasoning faculties of those to
whom it is submitted; and that eflimation, be
it what it may, ought to obtain. No one can
wiih to fee it under-rated.
But we are told, by the oppofers of a refer
ence, that it is incredible that one man, be his
official opportunities what they may, fhouldpof
fefs more information than the members of this
house, colle<fted from every diflri<9: of the coun
try. Then I answer, with inferior information,
it would be impoflible his reasoning should over
power and confound the superior information of
the house. The members will be in the less
danger from this officer, if, as we are told, he
is mifinformed by correspondents, and has re
peatedly discovered, on fubje&s of revenue and
finance, a princely ignorance. This we are told,
however, by gentlemen who urge the danger of
losing our independence and our faculties of dis
cernment, as soon as we fuffer a report, with
its reasonings, to be made to the house.
If it be personal influtnee, independently of
reason and evidence, which is apprehended by
gentlemen opppfed to the reference, for whom
do they apprehend it? for themselves, or for us
who advocate the motion ? Surely if they do not
feel, we do not fear It; we know how to refped
their independence of spirit; they would difdaia
an imputation of the fort: theircandor will per
mit us to fay, if it be a neighborly concern they
feel for us, there is no occasion for it.
On the whole, if we regard the constitution,
we find not the leafl colour for bringing it into
queflion on thi# debate : the law and usage of
the old Congrcfs corresponded with this moti
on. Our own treasury law expressly makes it
the duty of the secretary, to prepare and report
plans; and faall the pra&icc of one branch run
counter to that which is made the course of his
duty by the law of the land? It would be ao
uncommon and very irregular mode of repealing
a law. The advantages of this pra&icc of re
ferring, are manifeft and great: more informa
tion is obtained, and more order, intelligence
and system are preserved in the administra
tion of the finances. The old Congress and the
several exhibited txpenfirc and "de
plorable proofs of the evils incident to the want
of order, as well as to the number of fyftemsof
finance and financiers. With this mass of evi
dence before our eyes, it cannot be believed that
we shall take any step which will tend to intro
duce disorder and inefficiency into our finances.
WEDNESDAY, November 2?.
Mr. prefer*ted the petition cf
John Pray others, collectors of the duty on
distilled spirits luting, that thev have beea
employed in ti»e public fef vice fifteen montn',
for which their compenfution amounts to the
sum of about 90 dollars only, each—and pray
ing relief—was»Cad,and referred to the Secre
tary of the Treaiury.
The petition of Ludwick Kuhn was read
praying a frttlemert of his accounts, and ror.:,
penfation for money and supplies furniflie
the army of the United States during the late
war ; referred to the Secretary of the Trea
i ury. .
Mr. Gerry presented a petition of
Shaw, Consul of the United States for Canton
—-it was read, the prayer of which is,tlint t ie
duties on a quantity of teas, imported row
China to New-York, via Oliend, by an
voidable necefnty, may be paid fit 'the ame
rate as if the skid teas were imported direco
from China : Referred to Meflrs. Gerry, HiH
houfe, and Kittera.
The petition of Abigail Heart, ow
the late Major Jonathan Heart, was pie en
by Mr. Wadfwortfy and read; the P' a - e
the petition is, that Ihe may receive a ' V
iimilar to thole granted to the widows 0
cers who were killed during; the late 3
referred to a felcft committee, con filing
Meflrs. Wadfworth, Govdov, and N l l l
Mr. Boudiflpt presented a petition oik •
am L-Jtkway, a ibldicv iu the late war, pr«.ing the allowance of -a full pension t referred
to the committee on similar applications.
Mr. Clark moved, that the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury on a variety of pe
titions f«r compensation, for property uled,
damaged, or destroyed, be referred to the
committee of the whole to-morrow week—
this motion was agreed to.
Mr. Giles's motion that a committee be
appointed to report a bill granting further
compensation to certain receivers of Conti
nental taxes, was taken into conlideration,
agreed to, and referred to Me/Trs. Giles, S.
Bourne, and Sylvelter.
The report of the committee on the boun
dary line between the state of Virginia, and
the territory of the United States south of
the Ohio, was called for by Mr. Boudinot,and
read—adopted—and the fame committee who
brought in t»e report, were appointed to report
i. bill.
Mr. Parker reported a bill making com
penfarions to the widows and orphans of cer
tain persons who were killed under the sanc
tion offlags of truce—read twice, and refer
red to a committee of the whole house on
Monday next.
Mr. Steele called the attention of the house
to the memorial and representation of War
ner Mifflin, on the ("uhjeft of negro fiavery.
Mr. Steele oblerved, that after what had
palled on the fubjeft in New-York, he had
hoped the house would have heard no more of
it; but to his surprise, he found the business
was started anew ; and had been introduced
by a fanatic, who, not content with keeping
his own conscience, undertook to be the keep
er of* the confidences of other men, and in a
manner which he deemed not very decent,
had obtruded his opinion into the house.
Had an application been made to him to pre
sent such a petition, in cafe he had stood in a
lirtiilar relation to gentlemen holding thatfpe
«ie«? of property referred to, he thought he
should have avoided a compliance with it.
Gentlemen in the northern states do not real
ize the mischievous conferences which have
already resulted frhm the measures which
have been taken by certain persons in relation
to that property : and, he said, if a flop was
not put to these proceedings, the southern
itates would, ere long, be compelled to apply
to the general government for their mte »:er
ence. He concluded by moving the following
resolution :—That the paper, purporting to
be a petition from Warner Mifflin, received
on Monday last, be returned to him by the
Clerk of the house ; and that the entry of said
petition be .expunged from the journal.
Mr. Ames rose to explain the motives of
his conduct in presenting the petition. He
said it was his opinion, and this opinion he
had exprefled in the House a long time since,
that the government could not, with proprie
ty, takfc any ftepsin the bufitefs referred to
in the petition ; but on the general principle,
that every citizen has a right to petition the
Jegiflature, and to a£>ply to any member as
the vehicle to coftvey' his rflkjueft to the house,
he had handed it in. The petitioner is a ci
tizen of Delaware ; had the member from
that State been in the House, he fliould not
have thought himfelf obliged to have intro- 1
duced it; but the member from Delaware
being absent, the petitioner had a right to ap
ply to a member from MafTachufetts, or to
any other member. His mind, he said, had
long since been made up in regard to the Ne
gro slavery, but he no idea of supporting
the present application ; he had uniformly
been opposed to thofo made to Congress the
firli feiiion j and was decidedly against an in
terference, conlidering it as totally inexpe
dient.
Mr. \y. Smith seconded the motion.
Mr. Li verm ore observed that he Consider
ed the motion as not in order, the fubjedt not
being properly before the House—-nor did he
conceive there was any disposition on the
part of any gentleman to bring it forward.
Mt. W. Smith pbferved that his object in
seconding the motion was to put it out of the
powei ot any member to call up the memori.
•~T* 0r remain on the table, it
might at any time during the session be cal
• - . e , U P lI ? *' Ie of those whose duty and
inclination it would be to oppose it. The
gent ®man from New-Hampshire had indeed
Pledged nimfelf never to call for it, but he
could not pledge other members, Mr. Smith
e admitted in its full extent the right of
every citizen to petition for a redress of grie*-
vances, and the duty of the House to consider
nem, but the paper in question was not of
tiiat description, it was a mere rant and
nap o y oi a meddling fanatic, interlarded
' n te * ts Cl *ipture, and concluded with
pecmc prayer. He observed that it was
'ic practice of iegiliative bodies in general to
' Ve , e . co, ]tenfs of petitions read by the
em er in his place who presented them, in
cf-\ cr , to J uc *£ e whether they ought to be re-
' f/' 112 House had gone into a loose
tn ko lCe u^er ' n g every kind of application
tIJ ! re^ eived antl read at the Clerk's table,
■V, C ° n . qil f nce was that the Purport of them
lar inil vC ° n j° urna ls ;in this particu
real anCC tle P ra<^'ce wa * attended with
Stit-e? r n^ er ' , c ' t^z ens of the Southern
been r. a p a per of this nature had
terednnTJ"- by the and formally en
cd auA i I!" j° urna ' s > might justly be aiarm
count n, Cd W ieve .' lhat brines were
The tre fl w^ve °* their i'lterefts.
who lie"observed Vh ° P'' e:e . nted the P a P er > and
"ccafon ,vr i 7". ' )ain ad not on th ' s
louthern '1 h ' S <l ua ' re S arcl f° r 'he
late only t„ <tatcd its conteilt s to re
hi,pW 1 T he , fl ' U ' C - trade : liad he dated in
*° "eatc d i fu l f i ' 0 PU '' l,<>rt and - oh j eft > "a.»uely,
( *cite H '" ix aill0 "S 'he Itates, and to
house woutf "'!f r' ible inf "Teftions, the
cotton Atv' o , l '^ have reftred «-
0B tlii- fuK, I l ,rnceed 'ngs at New-York
US fcM Ins constituents had a
right to expect that it would never be stirred
again ; for his part, he allured the house, that
while he continued on that floor, be iliould
upon every similar occaf.on, pointedly express
abhorrence of these applications which
were productive of no kind of good whatever,
and had a inoft mischievous tendency : They
were not calculated to meliorate the condition
of the persons who were the objects of them,
Who are at present happy and contented with
their situation ; but, on the contrary, had a
tendency to alienate their affection from their
mailers, and by exciting a of rertlels
nefs, to render greater severity ueceffary on
their part. He therefore earnestly called
upon the houle to agiec to the motion, »nd
thereby convince this troublesome enthuliull
and others who might be disposed to comnm
mcate their ravings and wild effufions, that
they will meet that treatment they justly de
lerve; asthe present application'was difre-
Ipecttul to the houle, insulting to the southern
members, and a libel on their condiments, it
ought 110 longer to remain on the table, but
returned to its author with marked diiapnro
bation. r '
That part of the motion directing that the
pet tion be returned by the Clerk,was agreed to.
The other part of the motion wai with
drawn by Mr. Steele.
A report of the Secretary of the Treafnry
° n .'l 16 . P etit ' on of Griffith Jones, was read
and laid an the table.
The bill regulating foreign coins, and for
other purposes, was read the third time, and
a motion made by Mr. Williainfon for its re.
commitment. This motion was agreed to
and made the order of the day the firih Mon
day in January next.
Mr Sedgwick laid the following motion on
the table : That a committee be appointed
to report a bill rejecting fugitives from j u f_
tice, and servants from the service of matters
Mr. Giles leported a bill granting further
compensation to certain receivers of conti
nental taxes ;—read twice, and referred to a
committee of the whole for Monday next.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to
reimburse certain extra expences as the Com
mtflioners tor treating of peace with the
Creole Indians, Mr. Sedgwick in the chair.
The bill was read; some debate ensued,
which was desultory, as no fpecific motion ap!
peared to be made : at length, it was nuned
to hll up the blank in the bill with 1200 dol
lars. This motion was carried ; the com
mittee then rose and reported the fame with
one amendment kid 011 the table.
Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Nov. 29.
Mr. \i hue reported a bill to regulate trade ana
liitercourle with the Indian tribes—which was
twice read, and committed for Monday next.
Mr Hartley had leaveof absence, on requcfl
for eight days.
Mr. Williamfon gave notice that he should at
a ul "ie day, move lor a committee to bring in
a bill to amend the ast *a*blioji ni{ a CO n.«
coinage. 41 i > •
A letter was communicated by the Speaker,
from ttie 1 reafuter of the United States, cncMiilg
his fpccie account for the quarter ending Sept.
30, 1792 — read, arid ordered to be printed
11) committee of the whole on the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury, relative to the ap
propriations nccuflary for the support of govern
ment for the year 1793, including the iucidental
expences.—Mr. Sedgwick in the chair.
The report was read by the chairman.
A motion for the committee to rife, that fur
ther time may be allowed to examine the items
ot the cftimatc, and that members might come
prepared with propositions conformable to the
report aftei such examination.
Another motion was made, that the commit
tee should rife for the puipofe of a reference to
a felecl committee.
Thcfe motions were obje&ed to on different
principle*. I c vvas urged that the committee
ought 10 enter on the bufinifs immediately—
and where articles occurred which wanted ex
planation, they might pass them over, for fui
thcr examination.
Ihe motion for the committee's rifmg was
agicedto. Mr. W. Smith moved that the com
muteeot the whole Chould be discharged forthe
present, and that a felcfl committee should be
appointed to examine particularly into the items
ot the estimate, and report to the house.—This
motion was fuperceded, after fotne debate, by a
motioh that the committee of the whole should
have leave to fit again, which was carried.
The house took into confederation the report
of a feleft committee on the petition of Charles
and Lewis Gatanger. The committee reported
a refolui ion to the following purport, in favor
ol LewU Garanger—That he be allowed the pay
and emoluments of a Captain of Anillcry. Af
ter debate, the resolution was divided—and the
question, whether he fhou!d be allowed ihe pay
of Captain, was carried in the affirmative—the
quedion on allowing the emoluments, or com
mutation, was negatived.
Mi. W. Smith then moved the following re
solution ;— That in confederation of the losses
fuflained by the petitioner, whilfl in the service
of the United States, he be allowed the further
sum of dollais. This resolution was
net agreed to.
The committee who reported the resolution
which was agreed t<a, were appointed to brine
in a bill. 6
Mr. Fitzfimons moved the following resolu
tion :—That the Prefidrnt of the United States
be requested to caufcaflays and other proper ex
periments to be made at the Mint of the United
States, of the gold and filter coins of England,
France, Spain and Portugal, and a report of the
fine metal and alloy in each of the refpe&ive
coins, to be made to this house.
This resolution was agreed to—and the speak
er requefttd to tianfmit the fame. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, Nov. 30.
The report of a committee on the petition
of William Dunbir, was read, and laid on the
tabic—this report Was in favor of the prayer
of the petition.
211
in tfeciTair!"" ° f Che * ho,e-"ir
ryI i,e r. rCPOrt ° f the . SC " e,ar >' of the "i reafu-
C-... '* P®" 1 ' 00 of tne executors offcdwaui
Z;' Was ? ken int& UJeratiou-flu,
was for the payment of about j,ol.
tht balance of an account fettled wit* tl:j
navyboard of the United States in Maffach.:-
h vp balanie liad " ot di<t!.ar £ od
1 " f ° ri 0t the said Bird's not having s et .
tied their account with the public.—A general
r»r ™ ' he cafe is lugsciled by the Secre
taiy-Mr. Goodhue offeied a resolution in
conformity to the Spirit of the report—l»ut
♦! ' v^ SCOnfidered as bein 8 too complex—and
the following was agreed to—Kefolved as the
Tfy ° thls comni 'ttee, that a feieft com
ought to be appointed, to enquire whe
ther any ari<l what measures are necessary to
e taken to facilitate the settlement of claims
the United States, not I jrred by acts
oUmiitation—founded on certificates, or set-
by any officer orofiicers, here
tofore author&ed by the Unitid States to illue
certificates, or to make settlements on their
Behalf—and who have not fettled their ac
counts— and to report the result of their en
qutry. This resolution being reported to the
Hoiife, was adtyted— and Messrs. Goodhue,
i-!tafimons, Dayton, Parker, and Niles ap
pointed the committee—The report of the
Secretary of the Treasury was referred to the
lame committee.
Mr. Dayton laid the following motion on
the table—That the Secretary of War lay be
ioie e House a lift of the names of the inva
lids returned td his office by tlie judges «f the
circuit courts—with an account of the cir
cunmances attending the refpedtive cases.
Io committee of the whole on the appropria
tions for 1793. A l°"g »nd desultory debate
took placc refpefting detailing the items of ex
ftciire either in the journal of the Houfeor in the
Act; lome were in favor of both—in order to
giving incre full and compleat fatisfaftion to the
Pe krl'~; lt W " " b i cftc< > th>t « the details are
pu tfhed in the Report—and were circulating
In the iiewfpapers, the object was fully anfwer
cd j that if the items are parted on individually,
? Ihe A y e » Noes called, alter a de
oate on each—a period of t wo years would
ar yoe fufßcient so pass one appropriation
law ; —it was at length determined by the com
mittee, that the items (hould be entered 011 the
Journal. Progress was made in the difcuflion of
•the Report—and the committee had leave to fit
again.
Mr. Williamfons' motion refpefting the cop
per coinage, was referred to a felea committee.
A lepori on the petition of Abigail Heart, was
read, which was in iavor of the petitioner.
Laid on ihe table.
Adjourned till Monday.
Philadelphia, Dec. 1.
The Briiifh Oftoher Packet arrived at New-
JUcdr-zidry U&. Sbt i>r.,g*
papers to the fourth of Oaober. The accounts
of Frcnch affairs, if not cootradiftory, are by no
means fuSciently explicit Jo give a fitiifaftoCy
idea of their real fuuation.
Accounts from Oftend, under the London
head of Oft. 2, fay that the army of Dumou
ner, confiding of 25,000, having been surround
ed by the Auftiians under the Duke ofßiunf
w»ck, had surrendered at discretion—that the
Duke took poffeflion of Chalons the 22d,and that
Rbeimi fuirendercd the 24th September; and
the advance guard of the Austrian army was at
Mcaux, about twelve leagues from Paris. Itap-
however, that the latcil accounts, received
due# from Voris in London, do not contain
the above events. The French paper}' mention
that 3 negotiation had been on foot between the
Duke and the French General.
Official accounts are published of the success
of M. Montefquiou, commander of one of the
French armies, who had invaded Savoy, and
made a .conquest of almost the whole duchy .
and Was in poffeflion of Chamberry, the capital.
Lisle, a Itrong town in French Flanders, was be
sieged qy a ]c;rge aimy of Auftiians ; the garri
lon making the most vigorous defence. Other
accounts under the Paris head of 29th September,
fay that the communication between Chalons
and the aimy, which had been interrupted, has
been re-eftablithed by General Du Bouquet, at
the head of 10,000 men, and that a battle was
become inevitable from the position of the Pruf
tans, who were masters of the heighths behind
it. Menchould.—General Anfelm,with a Fierich
army of 6,000 men, was gone on an expedition
against Nice; if lie is fuccefsful, the King of
Sardinia will be confined to the territory of
Piedmont and the Island of Sardinia.—A fete
is to be celebrated in Paris, in commemoration
of .the icftoration of libci ty to the Allobroges.
A Paris article of 30th Sept. fays—
The people become very unealy for the state
of the Armies. A certain air of mystery per
vades the tew accounts which mc given from
thence ; and the War Mimfter receiving no ad
vices, is &circumstance of alann. A flrarvge in
timacy seems subsisting between the Officers of
the Combined Armies and tbofe of Dumourier
and Kellerman.
It is laid, there have been fevcral fccret con
ferences between Brunfwick, Lucchefmi, and
fevetal Frenchmen ; and,, it is presumed, that
these conferences tend to an accommodation,
some persons think ii is a ftratagern.
Seyeral other articles mention that irequent
interviews had taken place between the French
and Pruf&an officers; particularly that the son
of the King of Piuilia had dined with General
Dumourtc-r.
A letter to the French National Convention
from Dr. Prrcftley, is pubhfhcd ; in which he
declines the honor of a si at ui that aflembly ; but
ex pi efies the warmed wtflics for a fpcedy and
happy eftabliflrment of their affaiis.---Mar(hal
l.uckner was at Paris at the date ot the last ac
counts ; the convention had decreed tha> he
should not quit that city till a definitive ac 6 n
had taken place refpefling htm.—The French
convention have dccreed that che plan of ihe
conftuuuan to bs farmed by ihw body, (hall
ttitm iiniil two month, nVr
" '""l 1 "»« bccn "por.cd by ehc tomuiictee
VWS quict "' P "»
'C j.iKei trijd of September. W Q l a ir ,
"man, wh.ch he glvts a „ accou „ t of j.
' between h,S a,my a„j . i„ lge
"It/iani, o« the 20th, in which ihe Fiencn han
grea.ly the advantage, .hough .he Aufti.aus w t ,e
"o ndTTh 5: , thcf T ch 10,12 «° kil, < d
founded. There is a letier under ihe Pa...
head, (rum the Comm.ffioners to the Nonhe „
Army, dated Chalons, itpi. 27-.-which It
'hemic, proves beyond doubt thai that p' icc
'•<>tf U rre,,o<,ed,o the Duke of BrunLiel ,h.
as before ftaied m the account fr wm Oiled.
. Servan and M. Roland, two of the French
M.niilry, appoin.ed on the depohng oi .he
King, have .efigued. 8
OK l ■ r Par "' Se P'- 28.
umcial information is now received,of the i,
rival of .he Duke of Bruntwick and the- Prussian
a.my at Chalons, as well as lhat ihe Austrian
a.my and thai under the command of .he French
Princes was at Rheims on .he 24111 instant The
, m "" 95 ""I" E. of Paris, that letter 8<
m.lesN. t. of that place. The combined ar
pla" ! " Kt -n l "f "" ° ppoi " io ", a i '"herof .hole
PI ees. "lhefe fafti were perfectly well known
at Pans on Wednesday and Thursday last a i
though the French prints for obvious rea'fons*
are blent on this head. S '
Tk rl, ?*'*** or f*ACI.
he following note from (he Hational Execu.
>ve Council waa read on Wednesday last t 0 the
National Convention. .. V he
" The generals of the North, and of the Cen
tre.havng communicated to thcExecutive Coun
cil, that overtures had been made to them on
the part ofihe King of Prussia, which anno'unce
his dcfire of entering into a negociation, the
" Thr't" tl>e followin e anfwcr to them i
r u e ? C rc P° bll<: "« hear any propo
sitions, before the Prussian trnop.
evacuted the Fiench territory."
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
Wc have heard much of party of late- party,
Mr. Editor, is an odious word—it imports as
Occasion requires, federalifts, anti-federalifts—
republicans, anti-republicans—ariflocrats de
mocra.s-monocrats, moneycrais,and what not
Now, Sir, I have conftanlly been opposed to
parties—but one of your corrcfpondeiiis has sa
gaciously informed us that we owe to party, the
adoption of the constitution of the United Stales
if this is a fact, the good people of this coun.
try may be felicitated on the existence of such a
prmciple—-for ftirely whatever weie the mam,
he eMs have been highly propitious to their
inttreHs The flighted view of the cantraft be
tween the existing circumstances of the United
Slates, and those in which they were involved
previous t« the "forminga more perfect union"
by that cementing bond, the new constitution.
w.Il convince every unprejudiced mind, that
lometbiiig fupenor to the base motives of m.
rice ana anktitn, have wrought the mighty
change. But if (urh ate the ctfe&s of party, yrhj,
will not cxclaim, Mai it be perpttual ! The fa£t
is, the government of this country is in the moll
appropriate ihc government of the people,
i bis being the cafe, it follows, that to fay, it is
the work of a party, of whatever defcripiion you
pleafc,is an abuse of terms. It is an old device
ot those who in fact constitute a party in every
free government, to aitcmpt to fhift off from
theinftlvcs the odious appellation—in pursuance
ot this idea, every friend to the government, ou
its true principles, and to those measures which
Congrels have adopted in conformity thereto,
have been stigmatized as a party—which is iuft
as much as to fay, that the people are a party
agauiu ihcmfelves.
From the peace to the adoption of the new
Constitution, the United States rapidly de
clined in prosperity—on every hand the prof
peiS was truly gloomy—or, to ule the words
oi a late writer, " America was so situated
during that period of anarchy, that the most
dangerous crisis was to be apprehended."
But in eontradiftindtion from this, another
writer, unwilling to af'cribe theprefent degree
of prosperity enjoyed by the people to its prin
cipal cause, the operation of the general go
vernment, fays, « Causes the most palpablt
and obvious present theinfelves"—They are,
" an extended,fertile,unexhanftedcountry—
the active, uninterrupted induitry of indivi
duals—the bleflings of peace, and laws lecur
ing to each individual the exclusive use of the
produfls of his own labor," &c<-*-It will not
be denied that all these sources of prosperity
cxilted before the adoption of the new govern
ment, except the laft—for with refpeft to
laws securing property, the country was so
palpably deficient, that it was one great caufc
of the ruin impending over us, immediately
antecedent to the new state of things.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVEDaf the PORT ej PHILADELPHIA.
Ship RifingSun, Taicm, Turki-IQ^nd
Mary,
Morton,
Rochampton, Attkin,
Bjig Catharine, Drifdale,
Jndultry, Blake,
John, Burnharo,
Bet fey, Badeo,
He&or, Baker,
Schr. Two Sifters, Barry,
Sloop Francis, Hill,
Tryan, Vanneinan,
Price oj Stocks as in our lap.
Agieiabiy 10 the Seventh Article ot their
Coijftltllt'QP,
NOTICE IS HEREBY Gil'EN,
TO the Members of the Irifurancc Company of
Not th-America, that Forty Thousand Shares
are fubferibed ; and that a General Meeting of
the Subfcribera is to be held at the State-Houfc
in this city, on lot'h iuft. at 10 o'clock, A. M.
when the Directors are to be chosen.
EBENEZER HAZARD,Secretary.
Philad. Dec. i, 1793.
Teneriffe
, London
Jamaica
Liverpool
Cuiaccoa
Cape-Francois
Port-au-Prince
do.
Montfcrral
St. ThomasPARIS, September 23.
Abul'ttion oj Royally in Franci.
BKTWEKN 12 anil one o'clock
011 the 21 ft inH. the new nati
onal atlembly of Kiante aflembled ;
when having palled through some
conftituiing ioiiris, and- among the
relt that of appointing Petion pre
sident, t!ie ranting Manuel com
uienceJ the fitting by contending
that the Piefident ol the Conventi
on (liould be confldei ed as the Pre
sident of France, and lodged in the
national palace, and that his facr«d
person (liould always be pitceded
by the ensigns of the law. So that
in him the people might duly honor
that national sovereignty which ori
ginated ill themselves ; In short,
this chcre ami of Petion, whether in
confequetice of previous private in
ftrutftion or not, cannot, in the pre
sent state of things, be ascertained,
was for throwing down with a IVrong
hand, as he expi eil'ed himfelf (unc
main bardie) all the exi(ting powers,
and inverting, in the name of the
nation, this their idol as their king
without the title !
This dashing measure, however,
was put aside for the moment—
" Let us begin," said M. Chabot,
" byr reforming the abuses which
the conftitupnt aflembly admitted in
its decrepitude."
Thi King and Queen.
The following is tb.e account giv
en by M. Gorfas, of the condutfl
of the Royal Family in the
Temple. It is founded, ke fays,
upon notes taken by commiifioiiers
of the community.
Louis XVI. takes a book, quits ir,
takes another ; makes notes with a
pencil, and explains latin paflages
to bis Ton, chuling especially such
paflages as are analogous to his pre
sent circnmftances. f
Maria Antohiecte makes her chil
dren read and recite dialogues with
intonations and geltures,which (hew
that listeners were known to be at
the doors. Within thelaft few day 9,
the valet de chambre of the ci de
vant Duke de Coligny, was at her
door in the disguise of a ians Cu-
lotte,
Elizabeth teaches cyphering and
drawing to her niece ; afterwards
each takes a book, and then they
have dialogues. (The family is ve
ry fond of dialogues.) They dine,
and the dinner is always exquiliie.
After dinner, some parties at pi
quet, and some stratagems to talk to
the commissioners, in order to inter,
rogate them, which interrogations
are intermittent. They then take
up books, and Sometimes walk with
airs of majesty, and with the great
est indifference as to little mortifi
cations.
At night the wife of Louis XVI.
reads aloud ; aiuongit other things
the letters of Cecilia ; sometimes
ihe reads oFan unhappy Count,with,
the daughter of a Prince of a great
family, who (hares his unlmppinefs,
and will ally herfelf to him in order
to revenge it. Enigmas are propos
ed. Those of Mercury are guetfed
at. Equivoques are made. They
draw cards and fee sometimes rain,
sometimes storm, sometimes calin
weather,
In genera] they talk in cyphers ;
• I have seen 8 ; and I 11 ; and I
even it.' The widow of the Civil
Li,ft said, four days since, to her Af
ter Elizabeth, < You told this morn
ing, a gi eat (lory with reflection.'
replied, < You would talk
of multiplying 10 l>y 10.'
The following decree was palled
by the National Allembly, on Thurs
day last, on the motion of M. Gen
/'unnet ;
I. The asylum of every citizen
lhall be inviolable duringthe night
Krom fun-fee to sun-rising no per foii
can be ariefted except for capital
crinu-s, and no execution can take
place without the presence of the
Justice of the Peace of that Diftritft.
II .Should the above formalities
be violated, every citizen may u s e
iuch means of defence as he n.ay
have in bis power, and thole who
make any attempts against his peace
lhall be ptmiilied as enemies to in
dividual fafety.
111. In places where any legifla-
tive body are aflembled, the alarm
£niiis cannot be fired, nor the toclin
founded, but by order of the Nati
onal Alienibly. Whoever violates
tliis order, (hall be puniflied as a
dilturber of public tranquility.—
Decreed.
Domestic Articles*
KNOXVILLE, 15.
Yelierdav returned 10 this town, from oer
fo« ming a three months tour of duty in Mero
diflrift, a company of mounted infantry, com
manded by Hugh Beard, and two of
infantry, under the command of Captains Brown
and L.i{k,
Noiwuhftandiig the vigilance of th«>fc com
panies, so expended are the frontiers of Mcro,
and covered wiih almoll impenetrable cane
biakfs, the following will {how tp what lengths
the Indians have cariied their depredations, since
the attack on Buchannan's ftatton.
Wtdnefday, Oftobcr 3. A party #f Indians
fired seven guns 011 Janr s M'Ron l , on the north
fide of Cumberland. Abo> t ihe fame time Ben
jamin Jncelin, on the south fide ot Cumberland,
had about 20 gnus discharged at him ; neither of
ihefe persons were wounded.
Sunday, Oflober 7. A Mr. Irvine was (hot
through the thigh, en a road about fix miles
south ot Nashville. The fame day about two
miles from the above place, Thomas Thompson
was fiied at, but rerei cd no injury.
Tuetday, October 9. A party of Indians
went to Sycamore < retk, 18 miles from Nash
ville, and burnt the houses ot James Frazer,
Riley, and Major Coifield, drftroved a quantity
of valuable houdiold furni'ure, a large quantity
of coin, and shot down a nun b r r ot bogs. They
then proceeded to Eufhy creek of Red river,
where they bu.ntthe bouse of Obadiah Roberts,
and took off a number of horles. They were
followed by a parly ol men, who killed one of
the Indians and regained the horses.
Ti:e fame dav they took four horses from Ma
jor Rjnifey, of Tenueffee count*.
Wednesday, October t«». William Stuart
was killed about iix miles fiom Nashville, on
the north ftoe of Cumberland. The tame nijrht
the Indians burnt Slumo's distillery, on Whi : c's
creek, on the nonn fide of Cumbeiland. His
loss is computet! at dollars.
Friday, Ottober 1«. The Indians fired at a
Mr. Suggs, on White's cieek, on the n nth fide
of Cumberland, and took from hnn ten valua
ble horses.
Sunday, O&ober 14. The Indians shot at
John Cotton, on Station Camp; le\en balls
paflt'd thtough his clothes, none of which touch
ed the flon.
Tlu' fa me day ihcy fired on Francis Arm
ftrr.Bg, ai hit plantation, four miles Couth of
Nafh. .lie.
PROVIDENCE, November 17.
A eorrefpondent at Cumberland informs,
that Jothain Carpenter, Etq. of that town,
with the afl'ftarce of Mr. Daniel Rov, has e
refled a machine on Pawtucket river, for wa
tering land. This machine raises three hun
dred gallons of water, and discharges the fame
ten feet above the furface of the water in the
flume, in the space of a minute ; the operati
on being performed by a (ingle wheel. This
invention, it is expetflcd, will prove highly
advantageous to the proprietors of lands in
the vicinity of rivers, or other waters, as it
may with great ease be conftru&ed to raise
water a greater or left heighth, as may be re
quired.
BOSTON, November 19.
The General Court is adjourned to the last
Wednesday in January next.
Tile nioft remarkable pair of young cattle
that were ever fecn in this town, were on
Saturday last fo'd in Faneuil Hall Market—
they were but 6 years old, and notwithstand
ing they were only grass fed, weighed in the
Market 3.616 pounds—They weighed exae*.
ly alike, viz. 18?8 pounds each The fat 011
the Hump of one was three inches and an half
thick, and the Fore Quarters weighed 4401b5.
—They weighed, alive, jioilbs.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Pit IIAD EL tM ]A, November 20, 1 792.
THE Stockholders of the 3»nk of the United
Slates are heteby informed, that accortiin|>
to th? ifatutr of in orporation, a gtneral election
fur twenty-fiv.' Diteft irs willbc held at the Bank
cf the Unite d Stales, in the city of Philadelphia,
011 Mouday the fcvi-nth day of January next at
ten o'cock in the forenoon. '
And purfuan to the eleventh feflion of the
Bye-Laws, the Stockholders of the fa id Bank ate
heiebylnouftrd to affctnble in general meeting
at the lame plare.on Tuesday the eighth day of
January uexf, at five o'clock in the evening.
By ordct of the President and Directors
JOHN KEAN, falhier.
BOWEN's FXHIBITION OF
W ax- Work &Paintings,
A RE open every day and evening (Suiidays
t at the House lately occupied
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eighth-fttten
rtRsT Room—Contains upwards ot" too
elegant Paintings, and about 30 Wax FTeores,
in full stature— among which are LikcnefTes
ot a number ot the principal characters in
America; Baron Trenck in chains, an Indian
, ' and several beautiful young Ladies of"
different States, ftc. Sec.
Second Room—Contains eighteen large*,
Wax Figures, which form a Sociable Club
orth- OrrfEjiSypns.; and the School for
>candal, coufifttng of twelve female Figure;
Hiking tlieir o'jfervations on a voun"Ladv'
':io ~.ad eloped with a Footman. " ''
A 1 • :: "'CO One Quarter if ,i Dtfldr each
Room,
212
THE EDITOR —TO HIS SUBSCRIBERS.
THE Arrearage: oj Suijcriptions jor this Gazette
have teen for * long time accnmu'ating. The ex
fences of the publication are great and inevitable, and
have annually amounted to much more than thi
receiptt for fubferiptions; the einfeauenees mujl bt
obvious. The i'ditor has no other rejouicc than thofi
arrearages, todifcharge the debts he has been obligea
to incur in profecutinij the publication.
He is then fore necefiitate,d to repeat hii applied
tion to tkofe who have received futycriptwn money I'
account oj the Gazette, and those who have not pain
k is due, to make remittances as soon as pojfiblc
On theft receipts the continuation oj this Gazette, o
the plan of an extensively circulating paper is abfo
lutefy fujfended.
JO BE SOLD,
A Plantation,
LYING on rbe river Delaware, 2J miles abov
Trenton, containing 165 acres; whereon
a n weiling-houfe,pleafantly iituated, 36 by 24 fee
having three rooms with fire-places on the low
floor, and four above, one of them with a fir
place ; a kitchen adjoining, near to wh'.ch is a x<
maikable large fpiing of excellent water, accon
modated wkh a good Ipring-houfe ; a bain 36 f- <
bv 26j a waggon, chair and smoke-houses, befidt
Qiher ufeful out-buildings ; a large orchard, chufl
of grafted fruit. The farm is well watered, ai
has a proportion of wood and meadow land, thrc
which the road runs that U known by the nam
of the River Road.
On the Premises is also ercfled,
A Grift-Mill,
In the midst of a good wheat country, on a neve
failing flream ; the mill-house is 54 by 24 feet,
has one water-wheel, a pdtr ol burrs and a pair o
Cologne Hones, rolling screen, bolts for merchan
and country work, See. and is accommodated wi.l
a cooper's (bop, 18 feet square, near the mill—
which is about 300 yards from the Delawaie, an
very convenicnrly situated to receive wheat, &c\
fiom boats palling down the river.
There are also for Sale,
20 Acresof Wood-Land,
within less than a quarter of a mile of the above
mentioned Plantation, which lies in a fine hiph
healthy country. —For terms appty to the fub
fcribcr on the premtfes,
1792
BOOKS,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. A MERICANMUSEUM,fiom its commence
/~X. mcnt in January 1787, to June 1792, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered,
seventeen dollars and three fifths.
This work, which is now conduced on an im
proved plan, containing the bed pieces published
for and against the proceedings of government,
will be found to contain at least as great a variet\
of political, agricultural,and miscellaneous efiays,
as any ever published in America. Perhaps in no
one work are so many valuable documents relpeft
ing the history of this country, coile&efl together.
His Excellency the President of the United States,
has declared of it, that " a move ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement."
The l ibfcription is two dollars and a half per
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wifli to
be supplied with this work, are requested to give
commidion to friends in the city to (übferibe for
and receive if Any of the back number*
may be had in order to complete sets.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on Nurs
ing and the management of Children.
" We recommend these i- tersto the perusal of.
those to whom they are particularly add relied.
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. toi—Price, bound,
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic— 75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents,
5. Beauties of Blair— 50 cfnts.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mis*
Mote's Essays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Adyice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly mariied Lady,Mrs.Cha
pone on command of Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Pi ice a dol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by Jamcsßeat
tie, l. l d. profeflTor of moral philosophy andi
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen Price'
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay: "We
have seen nothing on these fubje&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univeifity in Phi
ladelphia.
g. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-filths of a
dollar. .
to. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars,
si. Nt'cker'sTreaiifeon the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
ia. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Pi ice, on very
fine paper, 5 81 hs of a dollar.
13- The Copftitulionsof the several United States;,
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Pricc five
eighths of a dollar.
*4* M'Fiogal. Pi icethrec-eighthj of a dollar.
15. American left Book. Price ihrec-fihhs ol
16. G
Ha do'jarden of the Sou!
»7 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
hi , in quarto— Price, elegantly bound and letter
50/e —plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Cnriftian's Vade Mecutn—Pricc »
quarter dollar.
19- Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Christian Economy. Price a filth of a dollar.
21. History of Charles Grandilon, abridged—
Priccxa sixth of a dollar.
?.i. Poems by Co!. Humphreys—Price a third
of a dollar
23. Srlc£l Poems, chicfly American-—Price ?
|. fucth of 2 dollar.
Said C a h f. y has for sale, a large .ITortmcm 9 .
looks, European a. well as America,, edii.L
-■ hi ch he will d.fpoleol on the moil ,c„f o ,*u
rtn s . Country gentlemen, who favor him i„i
c inynands, may depend upon being
■ie molt fatislanory manner. A libei a) ail ow
o such as purchak quantities 1 01 pu t, llc llbrsilf
r to (ell ag.'in. *
GEOGRAPHY.
Mathew Ckrey
lefpefifuliy fubmiis to the Citizcui oi
States, the folliiviu, -, }j
PRdPO S A L S
FOR PUBLISHING BY CUBSC' HI * 7 Io K
An AMERICAS EDITION c- '
Guthrie's Geography
IMPR OV l i), 1 J
Of which theft ire the term ■
TT (Vail be pubhdud in 4 8 „ tck '| v numbers
J. each containing thiee ft,eels, or (wenty'.oj
•agrs, oi letter prds, in quarto, printed wilhiuw
pes on nne papei.
11. In the course of the woik will be delivered
i bout tinny large maps, of the fame fizc as lh)) r e
1 thc f, - uro P eJ n editions, viz. molt ot them liieet
;»aps on post paper.
(t? Reside, the mis, in the Briti/h edition,, fa,
cork will contain map, of as ma,,y 0 j the United Stile,
u can be readily procured, executed by the be/I enrrav.
cr.s in the united States. 6
111. The price ot each number will be a quar.
t r dollar, to be paid on delivery A'cud 1 -
vance required.
IV. The work will be pw l« fcoirti
'00 copi«s arc fubfciibcd for.
V. Subfcnbers who disapprove of the work, on
he publication of (he three fiift nombeis, are to
ue at liberty to return them, and fh-11 have their
money* repaid.
VI. The fubferibers' names (hail be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
Perhaps there is £o frience more entertaining
and ufcful than geogiaphy. It reveals the difco
vcrics of travellers—the temarkable curioliticsof
all count) ies, in nature and art—the fnuation of
provinces, cities, towns, villages, rivers, & moun.
tains in fine, the history, manners, culloids, law?,
forces, revenues, and government of different uk*
tions.
JOHN MOTT.
(iaw 4 i)
It is an old obfervalion, that " there is not a
son or daughter of Adam, but has fame concern
with geography and that a knowledge of this
feitnee is inritfpcnfable towards the study of his
tory with advantage or fahsfadion. Indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannot difcourfeon the
most common newfpapcr topics of the day without
betraying his ignorance.
So much for geography generally. With re
fpea to the present plan, let it fuffice to remark,
that Guthrie's Geography has been long acknow
ledged to be the best in (he £ngliih language :
however, the account ol America in it has, from
obvious i Pafons, been very errcyieous and defec
tive. The errors of former editions will be cor
rected, and the defers supplied, by gentlemen of
abilities, who have engaged to fupenotend ibis
undertaking, and to avail themfelvcs of all the in
formation that can be procured, to render it llifl
most complete edition extant.
The Printer earnestly solicits the fuppori of his
fellow-cinzt ns throughout the United States: and
as no deposit is required, and every fubferibef will
Oe at liberty to withdraw his name, if, on trials
he should disapprove of the work, he hopes the
friend* of science, and of American arts and ma
nufactures, wiH cheerfully and early patronize this
ufetnl work, the greatest and most expensive, pro
bably, ever yet attempted in America, in the typo
graphical line, the Encyclopaedia excepted.
Philadelphia, Nov. 2, 1792. fiawtf)
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfdf
entirely to the PURCHASE anp SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begslcave to offer
his services to his friends and others, in the line
»>fa Stock Broker. Thofc who may please to fa
vor him wiih their bufmefs, may deu<nd upon
having it tranfa&ed withthe utmost fidelity and
i ifpatch.
Ordersfrom Philadelphia,Bofton, orany other
part of the United States will be itri&ly attend
ed to.
M&y 2
THE subscribe r begs leave to acquaint the pub
lic in general, and his cuftomeis in particu
lar, that he has entered into partne«(hip with
Mr. HENRY KAMMERER, and that the Print,
ing bufmefs in the Englifb and German languages
is now carried on under the firm of STEINER
and KAMMERER, No. 85, in Race-ftitct, be
tween Second and Third-streets.
The Get man Ncwfpdper will be published by
them, as usual, on TuefJays, aud all kind of Print
ing work done with care and expedition.
MELCHIOR STEIVER.
Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 1792
City of Wafliington,
Price half a dollat,
DOBSOX, CAREY, YOUNG, & CRVt^IIANIi.
IMPERIAL, HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Ofrhe very firtt quality, and latest importation
from Canton, *ia NcW-York, by rcuUi"
No. 19,
Third,between Chefnur and Mark«t» (Cel S*
B. Aj;w litxti of th: da-: HYSONj&'A'' I
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(t.f.)
To the Public.
PLANS
OF TUI
Sold by the BooKSEtLSRS*
NEW TEAS.