A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY fOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 105, of Vol. lII.]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES
MANY of the enlightened and humane have
for some time indulged a pleating hope
that the slave-trade, and perhaps fiavery itfelf,
will at length be aboliflied. What events of this
]<ind time may produce, cannot be ascertained at
present. But all, whose feelings and reason have
not been perverted, nmft be (hocked at the treat-
went which the unhappy Africans and their de-
fendants still altnoft universally experience in
the western world
ally, and perhaps from infancy, to treat their
{laves with contempt and inhumanity, slave hold-
ers seem frequently infenlible of the cruelty of
their condmft. Alk most of the Weft-India gen-
tlemen whether the Blacks are cruelly treated in
theiflands? " Not in general with any unnecef-
fary (everivy," they will reply, and talk of their
various privileges —privileges which are tliem
i'elves the mod unequivocal proofs that almost
every thing is denied them which can render life
agreeable, and every thing inflicled which a ty
rant's caprice and passion may dictate. In the
view of a Weft-Indian , neither nakedness, liun-
ger, excessive labor, nor mangling stripes, are
unnecefiary severities to negroes. It is alien
ed that-the 'Africans are, in the Iftands. uled
*' with kindness and humanity" and at th?
fame time acknowledged, that thonfands are
annually imported. How amiably mild mull that
treatment be which destroys the human species
ft> much more rapidly than they propagate ! —
41 Sparta teemed with slaves at the time of her
liigheft fame as a valiant republic." Let it be
added-, that it was customary for this republic to
fend out her citizens at proper intervals to maflk
cre coolly the (touted of the Helotes, left they
ihould revolt. In the Weft-Indies, the slaves pe-
ri(h by millions, in a flower and more horrible
■way. But let us turn from this disagreeable
profoeft—let us next ask an inhabitant of any of
the Southern States, whether slaves are there bar-
ibaroufly treated ? " Not at a,II (fays he) the in
•vecftives on that head are mere calumny and falfe
Jiood." Enquire more particularly as to their
food, cloathing, habitations, discipline, Src. and
yon will find that their peck of Indian corn is re
gularly mealured out to thetn ; a pittance just
.fufficient to prevent their starving—that they
have the privilege of exhibiting to gentlemen,
and (surprizing favor !) even to yonng ladies, a
great proportion if not the whole of their glofly
black bodies—that their hovels, when they are
not entirely destitute of a {helter, are perhapsfu
perior to hog llyes—and finally, that fait is some
times kindly applied to the furrows which the
lalh has made in their flefli.
The inhabitants of the middle and Northern
States will feverelV censure the Weft-Indian and
Southern (lave-holders. The humane European,
and unprejudiced American citizen, will in their
turn justly account these very cenfurers, or ra
ther some of them, guilty to a greater or lets de
gree of the fame barbarity. Who that has re
sided in any even of the lalt mentioned States,
where there is a considerable number of slaves,
has not seen many a poor black deltitute of cloth
ing necessary to keep out the wintry blast, or
even to cover their nakedness from the eye ?
Who has not heard well attefled relations con
cerning many a slave who has experienced conti
nually the pangs of hunger, whom not Itcknels
icfelf could excuse from an excessive and perhaps
unhealthy talk ?—ln whose ears have not, at one
time or another, the cries of diitrefs and anguish
resounded—cries for mercy answering the unre
ilrained flrokes of the lash, which leave their
marks for life .'—While filch treatment of slaves
proceeds from persons dead to every emotion but
those of pride, avarice and passion, reformation
from them is fcarcelv to be expected. We can
but lament that the fate of men fliould be decid
ed by fitch brutes. It is, however, a fad: too
well known to be denied, that slaves often expe
rience such treatment from persons who profefs
continually to obey the mild and equitable p: e
cepts of Cliriftianity—from persons who pride
ihemfelve* in their sensibility of loul — from per
sons who look on freedom as an invaluable right
from men otherwise the niolt re'petftable, and
women the most acoomplilhed. LSut surely in
this view, feeling, delicacy, fotmefs of manners,
humanity, love of liberty and religion, are all
deferred for that which is despicable, cruel and
vicious. SOCRATES.
Accustomed indeed continu
Saturday, April 21, 1792.
(circular.)
SIR,
IN conformity to an appointment and from theol
ficers of the Maflachnietts line of the late American army,
have, attended at the seas of government from the 20th ot Mar
to ihe present period.
The object of my commiflion was to obtain a decision on
nemorial which had heretofore prefenred to Congress, 01
he fubjeft of further compensation for themselves and the sol
'iot s who served during the war. Although in the hrlt mftanc
iinilar applications were expend Irom those in the difteren
tates who were interested, yet that expe&ation was defea-ed by
clay of the communication contained in ihr circular ad<Jrcfs o
he 28 r h of Ft'bruaiy, and an idea that an earlier adjournment o
'ongrefs would have taken p'ace.
Finding myfelf thus situated, and considering that the of.cer
nd soldiers through the United S ales were equally intereftrd 11
he question, I deemed it a mark of refpeff and anention due
hem, not even to attempt a consideration of the fubje& unttl the
iad a fair opportunity of becoming attive applicants in the mea
u'cs we had adopted, and of ailording us the a;d of th».ir advic<
nd affillance. . ,
As a proper investigation and decision of this question is ot th
lighcit importance, as it will afford relief to a large number o
ur companions of the war, whose dift'elf s are only equalled b
heir patience ; and as a union of sentiment and oi mcafuies wil
>e mod likely to produce the objc £t of our reasonable wilbes,
iave it in particular command frotn the ofßcrs of M^fhchufetts
0 requcit * of rhe officers of your line, at the open
ng of the next fctlion of Con^rcfs.
They will attend aj that time by their agent or agents, and a fa
ial decision will doubtless be obtained.
As my brother officers in Massachusetts have eittiuiled this bu
m-fs to mv carp, and as I have devoted some attention to the con
1 deration of the fubjeft, I flatter myfelf you will not deem i; im
iroper in me, in this communication, to make ioruc general ob
ci vations thereon. . .
The claim of the army on the public, in my opinion, is lo fax
«1 in the unalterable principles of justice, that they ought to fee
he fulleft confidence of success.
The people of America know, and the public records will eve
icrpetuate the ferviccs wh'ch have been rendered, and t,he lnanne
n which they have been remunerated.—An attempt to prove tha
dmnnd cf the most facrcd nature still remains uncancelled
could be only to 11k w that a part is less than rhe whole ; or -ha
wo, three, lour or five, ;re not equal to twenty. I lie cafe 11
-oint indeed is stronger than any which can be its sup
,ort ; and the feelings of every honcft heart will overcome evc.^
rgiiment which sophistry can devise or ingenuity invenj, in oppo
it ion to the claim.
Were I to attempt an investigation of the fubjeft, it would ap
irarfrom the molt authentic documents that the public ejigagc
ncnt to the army was a certain Turn in ipecie—lhat certa'nmi
'tary ferviccs were to be rendered in consequence of this engage
nenr.—That there has been a full acknowledgment on the pan HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
if the United Slates, that the ferviccs have been faithfully pe,- THURSDAY, March 8.
D*"
ideates, being unsupported b.y funds, had no other value than I UC—That the Secretary oj the 1 redjur) be Jirctt
vhat wit (lamped on them by public opinion.—That this value I e d to report his opinion to the Heufe, on the bej
vas fanftioned by the uniform adjudications ol the coußs ot law, W(/( ra jfj, ! „ ffofc additional fuppJies which th,
public^rvi ce^rr irefoyhecurry,t ye a r .
iflatures of the different States, in a variety ol instances.-That (Mr. Ftndlcy sfpeech concluded J
'onwrefi themselves, under the confederation, were impressed TV/TR. KiNDLEY — If, as ic is alledged, the Se
vitlTlbe fame fetltiments, particularly in the instance ot ihelalel creiary ot" the Treafllry framing revenul
n confequence^o^payment Sates. " " f/tte.,.., is better calculated to support public ere
Ftom thcle fafls it moftconclufively follows, that the claim of dit and gives the bufinels a greater facility in h:
he army is not chimcrical, but founded in the clear and eternal pall'age through the Houfe—J lay if this IS true
irinciples of justice. . 1 it proves the influence to be dangerous in a higl
™nS3 tTi'l Uegre C -C C r, a ;,,ly public crrfi, and «he mean,
lecc'nt and manly mapner, a(k for our rights? The present go- oi Supporting It, ougllfto depend only on th<
refnment i not only endued with the ability, bui was formed w ill of the legiflattn e, and neither on thew fdon
or the express purpofeof " eftabkffimg justice. '—While the fer- ijqi . t j je ca .,, ; ce 0 f a minister ; indeed it it Hand:
n the service of their country until peace and happmefs were le- I fixed upon Itabie ground—tor the leglflatlll e may
torcd, remain unrewarded, it can never be said that this purpole ani | w j]l some time or other, aCt Upon Its owr.
,as been obtained. The pleafUM which every honrlt American . pr ; nc ipleS. and in this cafe the change of lyttenii
Gentlemen are wrong
hose ferviccs are unrewarded which modpfty need not blulh to ill arguing from the old government to the new
av. contributed to the attainment of the public felicity —,[ ie government was llOt velted With pOW
vhich is now enjoyed. Nor is this all,—many ot the men who ers ' n()r p o H e tle<i of ref'ources for the support ol
icrformed those services ate now from the want of the jult com- ; . therefoi e the not supporting il
be to the nn»mer's not origuiat
tonthood of ravages, upon the frontiers ol the United States ; , ng ,l le fyi'teins.
vhile nearlv every thing they eat, drink or wear, inthele dillrel- I gentlemen fay that it is proper the Secre-
X •»»«' <° -company his reporl
roTdcrsof them with arguments, ill Older to explain the princi
7o ft"w that those characters who are entitled to the public p] es thereof, and state the fatfls with which it is
onftderatios can easily be diftinguithed, that a further compenfa- I conne< f te( l, — 1 wholly object to a minister's die
iorl en be made onlyW paying^ the a^o^ c [cd a , "ha do, ng tati "g or propounding revenue systems, and nil
t no e new e debt will be created, and the purthalers ol aliened fe- more to his supporting them with arguments
unties will not be affected, or any interference be made with any as ir is carrying the influence of the executive
vftems which have been adopted, I beg leave to prcfc-nt the 10l- I administration to aIVi 11 greater extent—The Pre
owingflatement. _ j (jdent lias a conllitutional right to communicate
h service ift of January, 1776. information, to recommend luch bufincfs as h«
2 Thole vrhofetermsof feiviceexpiied the tftot January,-.777. j may t lank expedient, and to exercile a Jnnitet
o. Those who inlifted in the year 1777 for three yeais, or du- i negative after the bills have palled both Iloufei
ting the war. The lerin of feivice of those who mlilted — £ j )e p re f ]f ] enl . was to claim a l ight to o
forthree years expued IU the yea. 17 .•>. 1 j j money-bill, it would be judged con
. Those who inlifted in the year 1700. 1 H .J , '
The lifft -nd feeond class have no well founded claims, because, J trary lo the pr.ncpleS of. the government, a,K
here was no deprecation on the money at the t.me they w-.c dangerous to liberty —How much more danger
,aid.-The fourth class, perhaps, have no claim in equity, 1-- ouS) and I Ikul aliliolt laid d egiadlJlii, It t(
aule:lie large bounties thi-y received, were a full equivalent lor 1 trans f er t [ iat j )owc r to a temporary minifler, no
heir ft r v ires. The third class with the office is, '""'J" ®" ,v j chosen bv the people nor responsible to til em.
aaietoiaisitsisa^sssp,? »«A
he war, received ccruluatcs in payment, the: value oi which has | Secretary s duty, by the hwv which COlii. itute?.
409
Philadelphia, April 16, 1792,
tii&o
[Whole No. 511.]
been fully considered.—They returned home under the disadvan
tages of having the habits of their formei occupations impaired
by their military pursuits, their property and connexions de
ranged and loft, and their families involved for a nefcrflary fup
pori.—Thus circumstanced, neceility compelled them to dilpofc
of their certificates for the current price in the market.
After the prcfent government was eftabhfhed, provifmn v.-is
made for these certificates, wherever they were found.—By that
provision the purchasers received an immense advantage.—The
public however saved a part of the debt which was originally du<*
—two per cent, for ten years on the principal of the whole debt,
and half the interest which had accumulated. —This remnant now
remains, and in paying it no more than the original debt will be
discharged.
The rival pretensions to this remnant will be the original hold
ers, who earned the whole by the sweat of their brow, and the
present holders, who have already received seven or eight hun
dred per cent, on the money which they advanced.
In the name of justice, equity, and good conscience, which
claim is to be preferred ? Every man will answer, that of the sol
dier ; unless his feelings are steeled against every principle of ho
nor, good faith, and gratitude.
This remnant theteforc, so far as it extends to our own original
claims, mav be appropriated with great piopriety to relieve the
fiifFerings of the foregoing description of men. In addition to
this, there can be no doubt but Congrcfswill be disposed to make
a liberal grant of land in the western territory, for the fame pur
pose, for it is not to be forgotten that those vail poileflTons, on
| which has been founded the pleasing expectation of finking the
whole of the public debt, are the fruits of those toils which the
government is now called upon to compensate.—l have or.ly, fi r »
to request you to take the earliest opportunity to make this com
munication known to the officers of your line, and I sincerely
hope at the opening of the next feflron of Congress, they will
think proper to make the application. 1 am, with every fen
timcnt of refpe£l, in behalf G f the officers of the M-afiachufelis
line of the late army,
Your most obedient servant,
WILLIAM HULL.
CONGRESS.
FHILAUE L P H I A.liis office—That it is made his duty by law, is a
Sufficient apology for him in undertaking and
discharging it, but not for the House in transfer
iug it to linn ; I deny that the Honfe can be
bound by a law with refpedi to its powers and
duties—This House is as free to originate money
bills as the lalt House was, and any future House
will be as free as this—The coiiftirution is the
only law whereby the powers and duties of this
House can be governed, nor can we either de
cline a duty or transfer a trull which has been
specially bound on us by it.—Nor will I agree
with the gentlemen, that if it is an evil it arilcs
from necelfity—certainly if we are capable of al
tering, amending, or changing the principles of
the Secretary's reports altogether, as is granted,
we must be capable with due industry and atten
tion to originate them ourselves.
But we are further told in defence of refering
to the Secretary, iliat if we do not do itonrfelves,
the comuiitte&employed, or some ofthe members,
will have reconi fe to the Secretary foraffiftance,
and that in this way his principles and argu
ments will be introduced with equal influence
fecretJy—and that it is better to face it openly,
and for all the members to have equal advantag
es from it.
This argument is plausible indeed, but will
not bear examination—So far is the method con
tended for from preventing private influence,
ihat it produces it in a much greater degree—
From the nature of the cafe we may conclude,
that a minister will not digest a revenue system
without adapting it to the views and interests of
a number of influential members, who will assist
him in preparing and influencing others to sup
port it when introduced—indeed it gives the
greatest poflible ftiinulus to private influence ;
for it not only combines an influential private
interest to support it, but the minister's charac
ter and the character of his friends, are much
higher pledged for its success, than if the influ
ence was private—Thus, I apprehend this me
thod is not only objevfiionable on account of the
ministerial fyltems and arguments which the
members receive in this House, and peruse in
their closets ; but also, on the account of the
greater inducement it must give to a more dan
gerous private influence, and in time to corrup
tion.
But the gentleman from North-Carolina, (Mr.
Steele) observes that we may upon the fame
grounds objert to the President's address, recom
mending business to the legillature ; thatmyfelf
and others who oppose the reference in question,
very lately advocated a report of tlie Secretary
of War, which he opposed ; that by carrying
the substance of that report into a law, we have
saddled the government with a debt for which
we are now about to provide—and he suggests
the impropriety of those, for whose immediate
defence the debt is incurred, objecting to the
usual method of providing for its discharge.
1 have observed already that the Prelident has
a right, created by the constitution, to recom
mend bnfinefs to the legislature, as well as to
give information of the (late of the Union; in
cor.feqnence of this trust he, by a report of his
Secretary, gave us information of the state and
misfortunes of the Indian war, and his opinion
of the force and expence that he judged necert'a
ry to enable him to bring it to a happy and
fpetdy conclusion ; this information was consti
tutional and neceflary—well knowing that an ina
dequate force and the short inliftments, rendered
the two lad campaigns difgraceful, and increased
the strength and irritation of the enemy.—l vot
ed (or the encreafe of the army, and for longer
enlillments ; but 1 voted for higher wages than
was reported, and we will yet re<*ret that this
was not agreed to—and I think in doing so I was
promoting the bed interests of the country, and
countenancing no unconstitutional influence
Surely if the gentleman would reflect for a mo
ment, he would not quote this as a precedent to
jullify this House in voting a transfer of the pe
culiar and exclusive constitutional privilege and
unalienable trull ol this House, to originate or
digest the principles of revenue, fyflems, to an
executive officer, not known in the constitution,
nor appointed by or dependant on this House.
I will further beg leave to inform the gentle
man, that the people of the frontiers do not claim
protection as a favor, they demand it as a light
- T hey know that protection and allegiance are
inseparable—that if they are not protected, their
connection with the government is diflolved ; it
is their lot and their misfortune to be exposed
as a constant picquet guard to the interior inha
bitants—too frequently has their habitations
been rendered desolate, and they have had their
dearest: relations butchered —When the ntlan
tic Jliores were the object of invaflon, the incle
mency of the season, nor the dangerous situation
of their families at home did not prevent them
from giving assistance—They have had little
weight in the councils which have, by affording;
inadequate means of protection, increased their
d lit re Is ; they think it ungenerous to be aided
with a too fpanng hand, and at the fame time
mlulred with unmerited reproach.
The gentleman fays he lias heard me -cften
moving to refer petitions to one or other of the
Secretaries myfelf-—I acknowjedge it—When
the petitions are for personal claims, being of a
judicial nature and connected with the docu
ments in the Secreiary's office, I think it proper
to refer them there for information with refpetft
to faifts—Wlien I moved for a reference of the
excise petitions which came in by me, 1 did it in
obedience to the customs of the House, but with
an express declaration that I thought the custom
then wrong—this 1 have no doubt the members
will recolletft.
The genrlenian has also observed, that there
is independence and good feni*e enough in this
House to examine, to alter or rejetft a report of
the Secretary, notwithstanding his arguments
which accompany it—and that we have done so
in various instances. This 1 freely grant —nay
I advocate more than this, I believe there isgood
sense and independence enough in this House,
to digest and originate revenue systems without
the Secretary's doing it for us. But what does
this argument amount to ? Why it amounts to
giving the peculiar trust of originating to the
Secretary, and reserving that power to ourselves
which theconllitution vests in the other branch
—:the Senate cannot prepare a money-bill, but
they may alter, a'mend or reject such as we pre
pare and transmit to thein ; and they have done
fo—ls not this giving the power and influence
in a great degree ro the Secretary, which the
constitution gives to us !—ls it not in fadt giving
up (he point ?—The Sen'ate is not permitted
lo digell their arguments and transmit them to
us in support of business which they prepare,
neither are we permited to do so with them —
Nay it is unparliamentary to mention what we
think would be agreeable to the Senate or the
President, in our arguments on the floor, left it
(hould have the appearance of influencing the
measure—The one branch cannot call upon the
other officially to originate business—how unrea
sonable then is it, to refer the mofi important
business to the Secretary to digest and prepare ;
and also to digest arguments for us, which we or
der to be printed and put into every member's
hand.
liut this method is highly objectionable on a
nother ground —it is putting the power of the
business out of our hands with refpe<ft to tlie
time of our deliberation ; this is certainly more
than we are authorized to do, or can be account
able for to our constituents—lf this pra<flice be
comes established, 1 shall not befurprized to find
a minilter in connection with his friends in the
House. delaying to report 011 the most important
buiinefs until near the end of the fellion, when
many of the members are gone home, or so anx
ious to get home that there will not be a fuffici
ent opportunity for deliberation—such things
are not unusually attempted in public bodies
without the aid of a minilter ; in this House I
have heard the dole of a session mentioned as an
apology for the pafiage of an improper law it
is not nt'ceflary to create newfnares for the de
liberations of the House. Before 1 had the ho
nor of a feat in this House, I was informed ofthis
method of originating revenue fyfteins, and I al
ways thought it wrong— lam not confident the
opposition 10 it will succeed at this time ; the
session is drawing near a close, and the oppofiti
-011 of members who advocate thepropofed refer
ence, may delay the business if originated in a
way disagreeable to them ; these reasons may
induce some members to vote for it now, that
would not do so in other circumstances—howe
ver if in is carried, I hope the precedent will not
be strengthened by a large majority.—For my
part, 1 pledge myfelf to persevere in opposition
thereto ; and have no doubt but when a more
equal and more numerous representation occu
pies this floor, this unwarrantable pradtice of
transfering so influential a part of the legislative
irult, will be changed.
MONDAY, April 16
Mr. Secretary Lear, by order of the President
of the United States, delivered the following
communicptions :
Si r,
AS we could not, in our opinion, convey the
enclosed extracts from the minutes ot the circuit
court now fitting here, to ihe Congress of the
United States, in lo refpeclful and proper a man
ner as through the President, we take the liberty
to transmit them to you, and to request the fa
vor of you to communicate them to that honora
ble body.
We have the honor to be,
With perfect refpeJt,
Sir,
Your molt obedient servants,
C JOHN JAY,
Signed J W»i. CUSHING,
/ JAMES DUANE.
The President if the United States.
At a Hated circuit court of the United States,
held for the didric.l of New-York, at the city of
410
Ne-w-Tark, April 10, I 792
New-York, on Thursday the fifth day of April
one ihoufand seven hundred and ninety-two at
ten of the clock, A. M.- Present, '
The Hon. John Jay, Esq. Chief justice of the
United States;
The Hon. Wm. CuAiing, Esq. one of the Afl'o
ciate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United
Slates ;
The Hon. James Duane, Esq. Judge of the
diflridt of New-York.
The Court proceeded to take into considera
tion the following adt of the Congress of the
United States, viz.
" An adl to provide for the fettlemetrt of the
claims of widows and orphans barred by the li
mitations heretofore eltablifhed, ami to regulate
the claims to invalid pensions."
[Mere follows the adt, verbatim.]
The Court were thereupon onanimoully of opi
nion, and agreed,
Thiat by the Constitution of the United States,
the government thereof is divided into three dif.
tinift and independent branches; and that it is
the duty of each to abftain-from, and to oppose
encroachments on either :—
That neither the Legislative nor the Executive
branches, can confticutionally aflign to the Judi
cial any duties but such as are properly judicial,
and to be performed in a judicial manner:
That the duties alfigned to the Circuit Count
by this atft, are not of that description ; and that
the act itfelf does not appear to coi)t?nip]are\beai
as such, inasmuch as it fubjetfts the decilions of
these courts, made pursuant to those duties, firlt
to the consideration and suspension of the Secre
tary at War, and then to the revision of the Le
gislature—Whereas, by the Conftitiition, neither
the Secretary at War, nor any other executive
officer, nor even the Legislature, are
to fit as a Court of Errors, on the judicial aclsor
opinions of this Court.
: As therefore the butinefs, afligned to this Court
by the aifi, is not judicial, nor directed to be per
formed judicially, the n<ft can only beconfidered
as appointing comniiffioners for the pur,poles
mentioned in it, by official inflead of perfonai
descriptions.
That the Judges of this Court regard them
selves as being the commissioners designated by
the act, and therefore as being at liberty to ac
cept or to decline their office :—
That as the objetfs of this act are exceedingly
benevolent, and do real honor to the humanity
andjulticeot Congress ; and as the Judges de
sire to manifefl on all proper occasions ; and in
every proper manner, their high respect for the
national Legislature, they will execute this aJt
in the capacity of commissioners : —
That, as the Legislature have a right to extend
the session of this Court for any term which they
may think proper by law to assign, the term of
five days, as directed by this acft, ought to be
punctually observed : —
That the Judges of this Court will, as ufaal,
during the session thereof, adjourn the Court
from day to day, or other short periods, as cir
cumfiances may render proper ; and that they
will regularly, between the adjournments, pro
ceed, as coinmiffioners, to execute the bufinefsof
this atft, in the fame court-room or chamber.
A true extrart from the Minutes,
(Signed) Robert Trout, Clerk.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL IS.
Mr. Boudinot prefemeil a bill for fettling the
claim of A. W. White against the United States,
which was read the firft time.
A petition of Charles Caldwell and \Y 111. Ro
bertfon, lately released frbni captivity at Algiers,
was read, praying to be reimburled the ainonnt
of the ranfoni paid by their friends —and that the
(ltuatiou of the Americans, now in captivity ar
Algiers, may be taken into consideration, and
leliefgranted them.
This petition was referred to a feleift committee.
The Ho life agreed to the amendment proposed
by the Senate to the bill authorizing the grant
and conveyance of certain lands to the 0..10
Company'of Afl'ociates, on the terms therein
mentioned. _ .
Mr. Gerry laid on the table a motion for < ' e
appointment of a committee to enquire into t e
recruiting service, and (if necellary) to report a
bill for promoting the fame, by encreahng tie
pay of the privates to four dollars per mont 1.
A report of the feledt committee 011 the peti
tion of Wlll. Hey burn, the invalid otiicei (w 10 e
application to the Judges of the Circuit ourt
is mentioned in last Saturday's Gazette) wa
read—it contains, according to order ol t' c
House, a statement of fac r ts only.
A ineflage from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informed the House that the el^ te ' a
palled a bill making alterations in the Trea u
and War Departments ; —he also informei
House, that the Vice-President of the Unit
States, having obtained leave of absence, 01
remainder of the session—the Senate procee
to the election of a President pro tempore, a
conllitution provides, when the honora e
chard Henrv Lee was duly elected.Mr Otis also informed the Honfe, that the
Senate having considered the bill for extending
the time for The payment of the duties on cer
tain teas, had resolved the lame (hould not
pass to a third reading.
In committee of the whole on the bill for 1 ail
ing a further sum of money for the protection
of the frontiers of the United States the com
mittee made sundry amendments, which being
reported to the House, were la.d on the table.
r x Adjourned.
THURSDAY, April 19- .
Mr. Goodhue reported a bill relative to the
con.penfations of certain officers employed in the
collection of the duties of import and tonnage
read twice, and committed for Monday next.
A bill for fettling the demands ot A.W.White
aeainit the United States, was read the facond
time, and committed tor Monday next.
A report of the Secretary of the Treasury was
read on the petition of the merchants ot Phila
delphia relative to the erection ot piers in the
Delaware— which was favorable to the P ra y e [ of
,he petition.—This report, on motion ot Mr.
Fitzfimons, was refered to a lele.fl committee.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary
Otis informed the House that they had made
choice of Mr. Bradley for the committee on en
rolled bills, in the room ofMr. llutherturd, who
JS Sfrßourne, of the committee on enrolled bills,
reported the bill, entitled, « An a* for autho
rizing the grant and conveyance ot a tract ot
land to the Ohio Company of Allocates, as
dU, The amendments reported to the House by the
committee of the whole, to the " bill tor rad.ng
a further sum of* money for the defence of the
frontiers," were taken into consideration— I he
Hoofe agreed to all the Amendments, except one,
which was to exempt cotton from a duty—this
being disagreed to, cotton continues charged
with the duty as heretofore.
Mr. Seney renewed a motion made yeuerday,
to add a fetfion to the end of the bill to limit us
duration to the day of and from thence
to the end of the next feflion of Congrels, &c
This motion occasioned a long debate the
ayes and noes being at length called, were as
follow
AYES.
MeflVs. Aflie, Baltlwin, Brown, Findley, Giles,
Greee, Griffin, Grove, Heifter, Jacobs, Lee Ma
con, Madison, Mercer, Moore, Niles, Page, Far
ker, Schoonmaker, Seney, Sheredine, J- Smith,
1. Smith, Steele, Sturges, Snnipter, Tieadwell,
Tucker, Venable, White, Williamlon, Willis—32.
noes.
Meflrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot,
S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Clark, Dayton, Fitzlimons,
Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon, Hartley, Hill
houfe, Huger, Key, Kitchell, Kittera, Lawrance,
Learned, Livernvoie, Muhlenberg, Muriay, W.
Smith, Sterrett, Sylvester, Thatcher, Vining,
Wadfworth, Ward— 31. _
The Speaker, according to a Handing rule or
the House, having a right to vote—and in this
cafe giving his vote in the negative, accoiding
to the lame rule, the motioir was loft.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, April 20.
A report from the Secretaiy ot the Trealury on the petition ot
Eliphalet Ladd—was read and referred to the comnv.ueeon the
petition of W. and 1. Symmes.
Mr. Williamfon presented a petition from sundry citizens of
the State of North-Carolina, relative to the internal navigation o.
that State, and praying Congress to authorize t < - C H' dtute
thereof to impose a duty on Tonnage to enable t em to remove
obilruftions in the lame -referred to a leleft committee.
Mr. Gerry, alter iht.ng to the Honfe that the debates of Con
gress have heretofore been inaccurately published, brought for
ward a refolutiou, the purport of which was to make public pro
■vifion to remedy the evil, by appointing persons of good reputa
tion, versed in Renography, to take down the debates, &c. this
motion was referred to a committee of five, viz. Mr. erry, r.
Mercer, Mr. W: Smith, Mr. Lee and Mr. Kittc ra.
The House proceeded in the confiderauon of the bill to raifea
further sum of money for the proteaion ot the Irontiers
Mr. Livermore moved that me bill (hould be engroiled; Mr W.
Smith seconded the motion-This motion was luperceoed by a
nother made by Mr. Page, to re-comnm the bill—l his mouon
after a snort debate was negatived.
A motion by Mr. Williamfon, to ft.ike out a clause which ex
empts books imported for the use ot any college or aca emy o
learning from a duty, was, after some debate, carried— 42 mem
bers riling in the affirmative. ,
On motion ot Mr. B. Bourne, a fcftion was agreed to, repeal
ing th'f'claufe in the to.ledion law which rates the ltvre to.rno.s
at 18A cents. , • , . „
A motion by Mr. K-ttera, to insert among the articles exempt
ed from duty, tradejmen's tools, machine* Jot manuja ujcs, an im
plemcnts of hu(bandr\iWAS negatived.
Mr. Parker moved an addition to the duty on coal ot 43 cents
per bufhe!—which was agreed to. .
Mr. Giles movtd to flrike out the several feftions stating the re
gulations in the coll ftion ot the duty on playing cards—this, alter
a ihort debate, was carried —-271025.
A motion by Mr. Barnwell, to reduce the duty on imported
spirits from 2 to 24 cents —was negatived.
Ou motion of Mr. Fitzfimons, the duty on common wines was
reduced Irom 3310 30 cents.
A motion was made by Mr. Baldwin to add a clause providing
in the payment of all the duties, lor the receipt of the bank notes,
of the banks of New-York, Bolton, Providence, North-America,
bank ot the United Slates or the bank of Baltimore j several
amendments being piopofcd, and negatived, the queflion on the
original propofuiou being it was loll; 8 members on )ri ing
in favor of it.
The bill was then ordered to be engrossed for a third reacm 0
Philadelphia, April 21.
David Rittf.nhouse, Esq. is appointed Di
rector of the MINT of the United States.
Thomas Sim Lee, Esq. is appointed Governor
of the State of Maryland, in the l oom of George
Plater, Esq. deceased.
A letter from Lancaster of I 3th inft. fays, two
boats are now at Wright's Ferry from above the
big lfland—they descended the Conawago Falls
with great fafety, one loaded with 200 barrels
of flour, the other with 1200 bushels of wheat.
By a veilel arrived on Thursday from the Cape,
an account is received of the arrival at St. Do-
mingo of the residue of the 6000 troops expected
from France.
It is a truth beyond contradiction, that the
mariufa<slure of paper mill) soon decline in this
state, unlets the generality of people can be in
duced by some means or other, to preserve their
rags. The great complaint at all the paper-mills
is want of rags ; the failure of the necellary flip
ply of which must soon raise the price of home
manufactured printing paper so much astocaule
a renewal of the importation ot this very neces
sary article from France, Holland, and Great-
Britain.
Some persons, both in their writings and con
versation, seem mightily anxious for the reputa
tion of our government—Certain it is, foreign
ers must entertain a very contemptible idea of
ir, when they fee that scurrility and blackguard
ism are the chief weapons used in its defence.
f Nat. Caz.]
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
i SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
Experience is our belt teacher. —Accordingly
[ have been edified by perusing the concise re
marks of a gentleman from North-Carolina on
the debate occasioned by the motion to refer the
fubjet't of ways and means to the Secretary of the
Treasury. Theory and finefpun speculation of
ten bewilder us. But that gentleman with found
discretion and an acute political sagacity has ap
pealed to matter of fadi.-He has shewn that
so far is Congress from being awed or unduly
influenced by the opinions ot the Secretary, that
a ftri&er scrutiny has in no instance been made
even of the reports of committees appointed by
the House. In fliort, the reports from the Trea
sury have to run the gauntlet j they are exami
ned not only without favor, but with a degree
of caution perhaps, and suspicion and aversion
which their conformity with truth and policy
only can overcome ; and if uodue influence is
felt at all, surely those men who cry out are the
lead partial to the Secretary of the Treasury—
they do not speak for themselves but others. It
is not the most modest thing in the world to fay,
we are sure we are honest and firm, but those
who vote agaiiift our judgment are rogues, and
only to be restrained from mifchief by our al
ways watching and fomeiimes tying them.
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
Is any thing more absurd than to charge go
vernment with the lollies and thai
some frantic people exhibit in confecjiience of
its funding law ? The price of any thing de
pends on the demand for it—over-fpeculanng it
is true hJi increased the demand ior stock and
brought many perlons into (crapes. But the ex
port of grain while Europe was hall famifhed
was in like manner pushed to excels. At that
time the farmers did not blame Congress because
they got an high price. \ou may talk to the
wind and the tide, and will they mind you ? If
too much is given at one time for the stock, what
is to be done but to let the lol'ers learn wit by
paying for it. Those who condemn the excel'
live speculations which have taken place will
have the comfort to fee that the evil has nearly
cured iifelf. If folly is let alone it will tax it
felf to death.
It feerns remarkable that some of the known
and declared enemies of the government affect
to love and understand it better than us friends.
What would the constitution prove to be worth
if its admirers after having adopted fhonld leave
to its foes to interpret it? Those who have ho
ped to fee America rife as a nation would fee
that their hopes are built on the sand.
" Oppolition to the measures of government"
is a different thing from " offofing" %he govern
ment itfelf ; this is said-yea the point of homf
ty is said to turn on this oppofuion—but, it the
nieafures of government are founded on the de
cisions of the majority, honefly it must appear, lias*
commenced hostilities with repubheamfm.
A correfpondenrobferves that while ihofe who
participate of the favors of government are con
(tantly ifl'uing complaints against its measures
and its ministers, we have Purely nothing to fear
from bribery and corruption.
411
If there is an individual in the United States
who has not heard,or has even doubted that the po
pulace of Dublin i n fill ted the Speaker ot the
Irifii House of Commons, broke his coach win
dows, and put his life in jeopardy, tor doing
what a majority of the houle determined lie had
3 right to do—clear the galleries ; it is because
they have not read the Gazettes of this city and
other places in which the circuinftance has been
repeatedly publilhed with the debates on the oc
calion ; but left the precious example (honld be
loft, it is thought necefl'ary that the memories
of our citizens should be refrefhed by a re-re
peated publication, as much as to lay—" Go
thou and do likewise."
Every honest man is an enemy to ttoufe s of
public tr 11ft—but measures and abuses are fynon
imous terms with fame who pretend to be repub-
cans
The drawing of the Newark Bridge Lottery finiftied the i 8 h
instant—No. 13,538 drew the highest prize, 5,000 dollars, and is
the ptoperty of Mr. Sayre Crane, of Newark.
We hear that the amount of the debts of an eminent dealer in
the funds, who has stopped payment in New-York, is one million
five hundred and eighty three thousand dollars ; and the amount or
his receivable contracts oidy nine hundred thousand dollars ; what
other property he has is not mentioned.
There was some disturbance in New-York lately owing to a
number of persons—men, negroes and boys assembling lound
the gaol and breaking the lamps—it does not appea. that any pcr
fonal injury was fuffered. Proper measures are taken by the po
lice to prefeive the peace of the city.
Thirty-seven fifhing veflcls have been licenced according to law,
during the month of March, ior the bank fiftiery, in Salem and
Beverly.
Died, at Allen-Town, New-Jersey, Hon. John Imlay, aged
73— f.n mcrly I'ldge of the Court ot Admiralty in that State.
—In London, Mr. John Rivi n gton, an eminent Book-fcllcr,
aged near 80.
|YT THE Letter Bag of the Ship Amiable, Capt. Paul, for
London, is intended to be taken from the Poft-Otftce This
Evening.
Letters for the French Packet at New-York, will be received
at the Poft-Office in this city till the 27th instant.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Brothers, Anderfon, Lisbon,
Odore, De la Rue, Havanna,
Schooner America, Hathaway, N. Carolina,
Frederickiburg Packet, Mann, Virginia,
Sloop Nonpareil, Tatem, do.
Endeavor, Evans,
Sally, Mason, Cape-Francois,
New-York Packet, Dunn, New-York,
Diana, Davidfon, do-
Phoenix, Burrows, Jamaica.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 16/ 80 do.
Indents 11/3 do.
Half (hares Bank Stock—s per cent, premium.
Certificate Loft.
WAS Loft, on the 17th inft. a CERTIFICATE, Numbered
59,490, gi anted to Lewis Nichola, for the lum of
007 24-QOih Dollars, dated the ift of May, 1784, and iigned by
]ohn Pierce, Elt). marked with tbe letter /.—Whoever has
found the fame, and will return it to Clement Biddle, Esq.
Notary Public, at No. 62, in Front-street, louth of Market-street,
or to the Printer of this paper, shall be generously rewarded.
April 18, 1792
Farms & Mills for Sale &Lease.
TO BE SOLD,
A VALUABLE FARM, fuuate on the Turnpike Road lead,
ing from Baltimore-Town to Rifter's-Town, about 6$ miles
from the former ; containing about 430 or 440 acres of good
farming land, 70 or 80 acres of which are excellent grass ground ;
about 170 acres are cleared, upwards of twenty whereof are made
meadow; the relidue abounding in good timber, and other trees
for encloi'ure and fuel : There are two apple-orchards thereon,
and buildings that may do, for the present, for an Overleer and
his fantily. ... , ...
Also, aTraftof LAND, containing about 600 acres, within
iwo mi'les of the fame road, and about 18 or 20 miles distant from
Baltimore-Town ; about 700 acres whereof are cleared, well cn
clofed and improved by culiuie and with valuable buildings, some
excellent meadow, near 20 acres, made.
Also, a small FARM, 011 a public road leading, to said town,,
about the fame distance therefrom as the last defcribcd land ; con
taining 103 acres, whereon is an excellent apple-orchard, but no
other improvements ef much value.
The two firft above-mentioned Farms are furnifhed with fljvrs,
stock of each kind, and all necessary implements of husbandry,
vhich may be had with them ; they are sown wilh wheat, which
prnmifes an abundant crop;—the business of the last of the two
has b en, for nine years, and is now, condnfted by a fkilful in
dubious Manager, who may be continued in the management,
on terms.
A FARM, on the said Turnpike Road, leading from Rifter's-
Tovrn to Winchefter,Taney-Town, Frederick, and Hager'sTown;
whereon is eredted a large commodious brick house, that h»s been
used for some years pall as a tavern, and, by a tenant qualified tor
that bufrnels, could be made an excellent ftagr; within a few
rods of whirh, and on the main Falls of Petaplco, is also eretted
3 GRIST-MILL, now in good order for Merchant-Work, with a
new SAW-MILL, and Land therewith.
For the title and terms of sale, and the lease, o£ all or any part
of the above valuable property, apply to
Baltimore County, Match 7. 1792.
P r Z
20 f
nf6
12J
par
57 J pr. cent.
60 do.
TO BE LET,
THOMAS JONES.
[6i]GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, March 24, 1792.
PROPOSALS loi cauying the MjiJsof the United States, on
the following polt roads in South-Carolina and Georgia, will
be received at the Pcjl-Vjjice ia until the firit day of
June next.
I N S»V TH-CAROLIN A
1. From Statefhurg to C/tarlylon, once a week—The mail to
leave Statefbmg every Monday morning at nine o'clock, or
uife, in hilt an hour alter the arrival ot the northern mail ; anJ
arrive in Charlelton the next day at lour o'clock in the afternoon.
Returning, to leave Charlelton every Friday at three o'clock, m tne
afternoon, and ainvc at Sutelburg the next Sunday, at nine m t4e
morning,
2. From CharUJlon to Georgc-toion s once in two weeks—Tht
mail 10 leave Charlelton every other '1 uefday, at five o'clock in
ti?<- afternoon (or otherwilc in oire h; ir~ after the arrival of the
mail from Siateiburg) ami arrive at Gco«ge-rown the next day, at
jcien in the afternoon. Returning, 10 leave George-town the nex
morning at four o'clock, and arrive as Charleston the' following
day (Friday) at eight in the morning
3. From Charlejlon to Savannah, once in two weeks—The mail
to Charlelton every other Friday, at-nine, o'clock in the
xnornirigy and atrive at Savannah the next Sunday, at ten o'clock
in the forenoon. Returning, to leave Savannah the fame day, at
two o'clock 111 the afternoon, and arrive at Charleston the next
Tuesday at Jour in the afternoon.
In Georg la,
4. From Augujla to Wajhwgton (in Wilkes county) thence Tound
by Grcenborongh u ihe Gjeut Fulls of and Georger-town to At,-
—once in two weeks. The mail to leave Augusta tvery o
ther Thurlday, at four o'clock in the morning, arrive at Wafh
jngton the fame day, and complete the circuit on the thud day,
getting back to Augusta by fix o'clock in the evening of Saturday
5. From Savanv/ilito Newport Bridge and Sun bury, once in two
weeks. The mail to leave-Savannah every other Friday at one
o'clock in the afternoon (or in one hour after the arrival of the
northern mail) and arrive at Snnbury on the next day at noon.
Returning, to leave Sunbury the next Monday at four o'clock i
the morning, and arrive at Savannah the fame day, at fix in th(
afternoon.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, MARCH 30, 1792.
PROPOSALS will be teceived at this Office until the tirft day
of June next, for carrying the Mails of the United States on
the following post roadt> :
In Sort h-C arolina, once in two weeks-.
1. From Halifax by Warrirgton, Hill/borough, and to Sa///"-
j.vry. The mail to leave Halifax every other Thursday. at four
o'clock in the morning, deliver the mail? at all the poft-offict,
from thence taSalifbury at such times as (hall be fotind moll be
neficial to the public ; and return with the mails from all thof?
poft-offices, so as to arrive at Halifax at fix o'clock in the evening
of the Tuesday next preceding the Thutfday when it is again to
leave Halifax.
2. From Halifax, by Blunt]vilie, Williamjlon and Dsileys, to Ply.
mouth. The mail to leave Halifax every other Thujfdav at four
o'clock in the morning, nnd arrive ac Plymouth the next morning
at eight o'clock ; leave Plymouth the fame day, and arrive ;t
Halifax tie day after, at fix in the evening.
3. From Edenton by Hertford, Njxonton, Saucer'j Ferry, in
Camden county, to Indian town, in Currituck, county. The mail
to leave Edenton eveiv other Satuidav at four o'clock in the
morning, arrive at Indian-town that night, and return to Edenton
the next Monday at fix in the evening.
In Vißgi.nia.
4- From Fiederickjburg;to Port Royal, Tappnhannotk, Urbanna.
thence across the Rappahannock to Northumberland Court-ffouf ,
to Kinjule on Yeocomico, IVeft more land Court-Houje, and Leed-
Jleun. to Frederickjburg, once a week. The mail to leave Fre
dcrickftiurg every Fiiday at five o'clock in the morning, and
making the tour above described, return to Freder ckfburgh on
the next Thursday at noon.
5. From Alexandria to Winchejhr y once a week. The mail to
leave Alexandria every Thursday at noon, and arrive at Wimrhef
ter the next Saturday, at five o'clock in the afternoon; and re
turning ■, to have Winchtfter e very Monday, at ten o'alock in the
forenoon, and. reach Alexandria the next Wcdnefday, by Jive in
the afternoon.
6. From Winchrjfcr to Staunton, once a week. The mail to
leave Winchester every Monday, at eleven o'clock in the forenoon,
and arrive at Staunton the next Wedncfday by Jive in the after
nor»n ; and returning, to leave Staunton every Thursday at eleven
o'clock in tire forenoon, and arrive at Winchester the next Satur
dav bv five in the afternoon.
la Vino :ni a , v c Tfrritorv South of tie Ohio c:\d
Kentuckey
7. From Staunton-by Lexington, Montgomery Court Hovfe,
lV\tke Court HovJ'e, and Abingdon, to Hawkins Court Houft, in the
Territory South of the River Ohio, once in two weeks. The
nrai tor leave Staunton other Thutfday, arretro'cloek intbe
forenoon, and arrive at Hawkins Court House the next Wednes
day at o'clock in the afternoon ; »nd returning, to leave Haw
kins Court Houf the next morning at five o'clock, and ariiveat
Staunton the week following on at noon.
<?. hom 'Hawkins Covit House to Danville in Kcntuckey, once in
two weeks. The mail to leave Hawkins Court House every other
Thurfcay. at fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Danville
the next Tuesday at five o'clock in the afternoon ; and returning,
to leave Danville the Friday following at fix o'clock in the morn,
ing, ahd arrive at Hawkins Court House the next Wedncfday by
rioon.
Nor f. —As the condition of the country bttweeq Hawkins
Court House and Danville may render the regular carriage of the
mail impra&icablc, the persons who shall offer to contra#, will
it, te in their proposals the times and manner in which they think
the carriage of that mail mod eligible and practicable, so that it
be not oftener than once in two weeks, nor less frequent than once
in four wee is. as far as such a degree of regularity is attainable
and Hate theicims on which they will so carry it : or, if they
thiuk it pra&icable, to carry this mail Tegulaily once in two
weeks and returning) or once in four weeks; ihey will
diftin&ly state the terms on which they will carry it for one pe
riod and for the other.
Jn the State of Delaware and Vircikma,
g. From Wilmington by Ntwcajile,, (avtwcll's Bridge and Duck-
Creek to Dover, once a week. The mail to leave Wilmington
every Monday at three o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Do.
\er on Tutf-day bvfiix in the afiernoon—returning, to leave Dover
on Wedncfdav by five o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Wil
mington by fix in the evenings or by nine o'clock on Thurfdav
morning. From Dover to the Bajlem Shore of Virginia and
Norfolk, onre in two weeks. The mail to leave Dover every o
ther W'-Hnefday, at-five o'clock in the morning, pass Dapfborough,
Snow-Hill, and Ac comic Court lioufe, and arrive at Northampton
Cou7l Hovfe the towing Saturday by five o'clock in the after
noon, proceed across the ferry to Norfolk the next day, and >e
turn to Northampton Court Hbufe the following Tuefdav, bv five
o'clock in the afternoon ; leav© Northampton Couit Honfe on
Wednesday at five o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Dover
the next Saturday by five in the evening.
(£3T The persons offering proposals for earn ing thrs mail, will
be plea fed toftatc the Irrms on which they will carry it once in
tvery neck.
In Maryland.
10. From Eujlon (on the Eallern Shore) lo and thence
by baljbury, to Snow Hill, once a week. Ihe mail to Irave Ealion
on Wcdii.cfday, at eleven o'clock in the forenoon, and arrive the
next day at Snow Hiil by two in ihe aheriioou. Returning, to
.cave Snow Hill on Friday morning at Jix, and arrive at ilaiton
on Saturday by noon.
11. From Anttapolis\o Ujyper Marlborough, Pifcatawa, Port To
hacco, Allen's Frejh, Newport, Chaptsco, and Leonard-town, once a
vvcik. The mail to leave Annapolison Taciaay, at lix o'clock in
tiie morning, reach Pifcatawa that evening,and arrive at Leonard
town on Wedntfdiay evening, or by nine o'clock on lhuijday
aiorning. Returning, to leave Leonard-town on 1 hurlday, at
three in ihe afternoon, and ainve at Annapolis on Saturday, at
Jive in the afternoon.
12. From Baltimorebv Frederick-town and Wager's*
tewn, and thence 10 once a week. The mail to
leave Baltimore on Saturday., at three o'clock in the alterrtoon, and
arrive at Chamberfb'irg the next Monday byJeven in the evening,
or on Tu 'day by (even in the morning. to leave
Cha mberfbu r g oo Wednesday morning at five o'clock, and ar
rive at Baltimore on Friday by four in the afternoon.
In the States oj Pennsylvania, New-Jsrsey and New-York.
13. From Philadelphia to Bethlehem, once a week-. The mail to
leave Philadelphia onThurfday by fix o'clock in the morning, and
arrive at Bethlehem on Friday by nine in the morning. Return
ing, to leave Bethlehem on Monday by Jix in the morning, and
arrive in Philadelphia by nine on Tuetday morning.
14. FYom Bethlehem to Reading, once a week. The mail to
leave Bethlehem on Friday, at ten o'clock in the forenoon,* and
arrive at Reading by eight on Saturday morning. Returning, lo
leav«. xveading at nine o'clock the fajne morning, and arrive at
Bethlehem by Jeven in the evening.
15. From Reading by HarriJbiirg,lo CarliJle, once a week. The
m ;to leave Reading on Friday mornig bv lix o'clock, arrive at
Car He the next day by J,even in the evening. Returning, to leave
Caihfle on Monday morning at fix.o'clock, and arrive at Harris-
by noon ; leave Harr.fburg the next Wednefdav by fix
o'c lock in the morning, and arrive at Reading by Jix on Thursday
ning.
16. From Bethlehem by Eajlon and Sujjex Court Hbuje, to GoJhen y
o/ice <. week. The mail to leave Bethlcnem every. Friday at ten
• 'clock in the forenoou, and arrive at Golhen by nine o'clock the
•ex Mondnv morning. Returning, to leave l.ofhen the follow
ng Wednesday at fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Beth
' hem by nine o'clock the next Friday morning.
17 From Go/hen by Ward's Bridge and Rirrgjlon to Rhinebech,
once a week. The mail to leave Gofhen on \V\ dnefday morning,
Ar ft* o'clock, and arrive at Khinebcck on Thursday lorenoon by
'■/even. leave Rhinebeck the lame day by noon, and
arrive at Goftien on Friday evening by
From EHzabethrtown or Newark to Morris-town and Sujfex
'■'urt Houfc, once a week. The mail to leave Elizabeth-town or
Newark on Wednefdav at noon, and arrive at Suflex Court House
O'l Thursday by two o'clock in the afternoon. Returning, to leave
Sussex Court House on the fame day at three in the ahernoon, and
arrive at Elizabeth-toun or Newark on Fiiday, by jx in the
evening.
19. From Woodbridge to Amboy, on Tuesday, Thurfd'ay, and
Saturday, or every day ;o the week, Sunday excepted. The per
f'~»ns disposed to contra# for the cairiageof this m-nl, to state the
different terms on which they will thus carry it, three or fix times
a well. The hours of arrival and departure to coirefpond with
the arrivals of tV mail from Philadelphia at Woodbridge.
20. From Philadelphia, by Salem to Bridgetown, once a week. —
The mail to leave Philadelphia every Thursday at three o'clock in
the afternoon, and arrive at Bridgetown on Saturday by seven in
tle morning. Returning, to leave Bridgetown on Monday by four
in the afternoon, and arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by
eight in the morning;
In the States 0/"New-York, andVermont.
21. From Albany by ScJienaflady to Connajorharricy once a week.
The mail to leave Albany every Thursday at fix o'clock in the
morning, and arrive at Connajorharrie on Friday by ten in the
forenoon ; leave ConnajoTbarrie the fame day at one in the after
noon, and rctr.rn to Albany the next day by fve, in the aMernoon.
22. From Albany (by Troy and Lanfingburg) U> Bennington, Man
chrfier and Rutland, once a week. The mail to leave Albany every
Thursday at fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Bcnnmgton
the fame dav at four in the afternoon ; to leave Bennington on Sa
turday at fix in the morning,-and proceed to Manchester and Rut
land : get back to Bennington the nexuTuefday, and arrive at
Albanv by Wedncfdav noon.
23. From Rutland to Burlington on take Champlain, once in
two weeks. The mail to leave Rutland on every other Mondav
at fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Burlington on Tues
day at noon : leave Burlington on Wednesday at fix in the morn
ing, and arrive ar Rutland thr next dav by noon.
03 s " The petfons who olPer propsofals for the carnage of this
mail, will be pleafcd to state the terms on which they will carry
it once a week.
On Connecticut Rivf.r
24. From Springfield in MafTachufetts. by Nortfumi*.m to Brat
tfeborough in Vermont, once a week. The mail to leave Spring
field eveiy Monday at one o'clork in the afternoon, and" arrive at
Brattleborough the next day atfii<e in the afternoon : "ieave Brat
tlrborough the next Saturday at noon,and arrive at Springfield the
next Monday by nine in the morning.
From Bratt/eborough, by Charlejion and Windsor, to Hanover
in N'ew-Hampfhire. otice a week. The mail to Ic ve Bratilebo
rough every YVednefday at five o'clock in the morning, and reach
Windsor by five in the afternoon : leave it on Thursday at one
o'clock in the afternoon, and reach Hanover at five : leave Hano
ver at five o'clock on Fudav morning, and arrive at Brattlebo
rotigh by eleven o'clock on Saturday forenoon.
26. From Springfield in MaiTachufctts, bv Stackbridqe *o Kinder
hook in the State of New-York, once a week. The mail to leave
Springfield every Monday at noon, arrive at Stockbridge the next
day by noon, and at Kinderhook on Wednesday by noon : t<>
leave Kinderhook on Thursday at noon, and return to Springfield
by the next Monday at nine \r\ the morning.
27. From.tyezc-York to llartfoid in the fiate of Connecticut
through White Plains, North-Cattl", Salem, Poundridge, Ridge-'
field, Danbury, Newtown, New-MilftmJ, Litchfield. Harrington
and Farmir.gton, once a week. The mail to leave New-York on
Thursday at tour o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Hartlnrd
by eight o'clock in the morning of the next Mondav. Ihfurninr
to leave Hartford the lame Monday at ten o'clock in the forenoon,'
and arrive at New-York by eight o'clock in the morning of the
next Thursday.
*** As it is fcppofed (hat ihc pafCng of the mail through some
other towns, or part of this upper route, from New-York to
Hartford, mav be more extenfivelv ufeful, the persons inclined !'■
contrail for the carriage of it, will be plrafed lo make two diftintt
ptooofals; one sot ihe route above described ; the oihrr wiih
such deviations as they think will be mnft ufeful to thr inhabi
tants ; but in both cases to pass through Danbuty and Litchfield.
In Massachusetts and Rhodi.lsi.akd,
28. From Salen to Glouctfier. twice a week. The mail tn leave
G'ouceftcr every Mondav and Thursday morning at fix o'clock,
and arrive at Salem bv Returning, to leave Salem evcrv
V\ ednefday and Saturday by two in the afternoon, and arrive at
Gloin-efler the fame day by five.
03" » a runs oftener, or on anv other davs. be
tween Salt-m »nd Gloncefler, any persons disposed to coulrait for
Ihe can .age of the mail, may conform their proposals to the ufua
al days and hours of the depanure and arrival of the fta-c-wag" >n.
412
'9- *' >m to Mji'lihead. Pcrfotn inc'md to contra?) u
c»riv this mail, are deG.cd to make three different propoM.'
itating me tainj on whirh iliey will carry n twice a wee-k ,
times day in the week', Sunday excepted
limes of departure and arrival to correspond with the timeso'f the
arrival and departure of the ftage-w.aggons usually pallia between
bojlon and Salem. °
30. From baUm to 80/ ion, everv. day in the week, Sunday ex
empted ; the hours cr di p.ll ture and arfira! to contorqi tp the u r « '
hours of the departure and arrival of the fta.e-waggon daiiy p,fli n .
between those two plact s. •
31. From Pojior, by Phnwuth, to BorrfiMo. once a work The
mail to leave Borton on Thursday by leven o'clock. ;n it,- morr
ing, and arrive at liamttahle by five 'o'clock in the afternoon on
Friday. Returning, to leave Barnftal.lt on Monday |, v ftvrn
o clock in the morning, and arrive at Bolton on Tueluay by ft
in the afternoon. ' J "
32. From Boflon to Tarn tot. once a week. The mail to l ra ...
Boston on Thursday by fix o'clock in the morning and arrive at
Taunton by two o'clock in the afternoon. Rdurninj, to l gav
Taunton 011 Tucfday hv fix o'clock io the ainvc J.
Boston L»v ji'ur in 'he afternoon.
33* F ' rum Taunton, through Warren and B'i/fol, to Neu-fou
once a week. The mail to leave Taunton on Thurfdfcv at three'
o clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Newport on Friday bv
noon. Returning,- 10 leave Newport on Monday by eight o'cly
ill the morning, and arrive at Taunton by Jive in the "'
34. From Taunton 10 New-Bedford, once a week. The mail 10
leaye Taunton on Thursday at three o'clock in the afternoon and
arrive at New-Bedford on Friday bv noon. Returning, to'| t „ le
New-Bedfoid on Monday by nine o'clock in tnc momma 41;il
airive at Taunton by Jive in the afternoon.
35. Persons offei ing proposals for carrying the three I ft m „|,
(No. 32, 33, 34,; Will be pleased to (late the terms on which the,
will carry the m.rl from Boflim through Taunton to Nintut, a „d
the mail from BvJlor. through Taunton 10 New-Btijord, and back tu
Boston at the 'inifs abovementioned.
35. Fro it- Providence to H'orcefter, once a week. The mail t0
leave Provider:; - on Wednesday bv fix o'clock in lb-mornin.
and arrive at Worcester by fix in the evening. Return;,,/, to leave
WorceHi-r on Monday by fix in ibe morning, and iuivc at Pro
vidence by Jtx in the evening.,
In New.Hampshire
37. From Portsmouth by Exeter ro -Concord, once a week. Ti>e
mail 10 leave Poitfmouth every Monday morning at fix o'clock,
arrive at Exeter bv nine-, proceed to Concord, and rctmnio PcuU
mouth by Jive o'clock the next Wednesday afternoon.
%* Tbe r.eifonsofferiiia to contrast for this road, are desired
also to Hate the terms on which thev wilt carry the mail from
Exeter to Concord and back, once a week ; leaving Evtertvrrr
Monday at ten o'clo-k in the mo'nini;, reaching Concord the next
day by noon, and're:urn.ng to 'Exeter on Wednesday by txt in
the afternoon.
38. From Concord [by Plymouth and Oxford) to once in
t woo weeks. The mail to leave Concord every other WedueWay
by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Hanover the next d«v
by Jive in the afternoon : to leare Hanover on Friday at fix o'clock,
in the morning, and returning by ihe newioai, arrive at Concord
on Saturday by five in the afternoon.
39. For c?rry-nff rhe mail from Concord to Hinoe*r, bv the route
above drfcrrbed, once in every week.
40. For carrying the fame mail (from Concord
the new road, both going and returning, once in tveiy week, and
once in two weeks.
*+* The terms for carrying the mail betweenConco*d and H(-
nover, in the four different ways heie mentioned,, to be diSiutt!/
ftat'-d.
£*4 Asfomeof these mails may be conveniently carried iti
stage-waggons, persons inclined to contrail will be pleas d to Bi(e
the terms on which they will so carry any of them, a> well aa the
terms on which they will carry them oti horfchack.
Note t. If hereafter it ffiould appear that any other tines for
the arrival and depaiture ot the mails would be more coovm'tnt
an J ufeful thaa those above prooofed, alterations may accordingly
be
2. For every hour's delav in arriving after the times prtfenbed
in any cojut ast, the contractor to forfeit one dollar; and for the
non-performance of a trip, double the sum which the value of
one trip (hall bear to the value of the whole number of trips to be
pei formed'.
3. The contra£b to continue in force until the firft day of
June, 1794.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P^mtjhr-Gmr-J.
Bank of the United States.
March 21,1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby arc, r.i
thorifed to compleat their Shares by payment at any tunc
before the periods required b\r the I'aw of incorporation.
Resolved, That each Share so compleated, fh'il be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits of the BanK,from and after thefM?
day of the month next succeeding the day of fticfr
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's interrfl uDon the Pub
lic Debt transferred to compleat any Share as aforefa;d, as fhaii
have accrued before the firft day of the month next succeeding the
completion of such Share. fVia2l lie received by the Bank, and paid
to the persons who fnall have transferred the fame.
By order of the Prcfident and Directors,
(cptiftj) ]OHV KKAy, Cajaier.
At a meeting of the Diklctuxji of the Ha sua op
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Dtfcount and Deposit be
authorised to receive of Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock ot the Bank, and
that the Cafhicis of the said offices give duplicate rcceipjsforfut.li
payments, oneot which receipts, accompanicd with evidence ot a
transfer of public debt fufficient to complete said fhares,upon be-
produced at the Bank, shall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for fuil mare":, and to all the benefits of the Refoluticns
o f the Board of Diie&ors paflcd the 21 it infant, relative to cc,n "
pleting (hares by payment at any time before the pcriodi requite
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the Prcfident and Dirr&ors.
JOHN KEAN T , Captr._
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Mar CH 31, i7«-
NOTICE is liertrbv given. Th.it the inicreft tor the Dinner,
ending tiiis d»v,ontiie FUNDED DEBToithcl"»ueoßute>,
Ending on the books of ilieTre<»fury, and of theCommiflionero
Laans foi thi« Starr, will br paiH thr Bank of the Umied Sute.^
THE Editor of the Gazette of the Unite* Static, »oJI
earncflly requefa that those of his fubfcrikers, whose arrearages tot
teen at cumulating for more than twelve mor.ths, would makef&) me "' 5
soon as pof/ible—at farthejl, before theJirJl day oj June next.
Those persons who fhcrtl be disposed to patronize this Gazette cftt
the Poft-Officc Law fkallgo into operation, willpleajtUf&'-'J: " u!r
intend(mto the Deputy Poft-Mafttrs in the United States, uto *Jt
requejled toforwardjuch subscriptions as moy It rzeehid, *«J the
previous {o the fjid firJioJ June. The terms off'
Three Dollars per annum, cxchfive of foffage—Ohe kv'I /
the time of fubjh ibing t the ether h&f to be advanced at <:-»/ ••* J
the frflfx months.