PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS KY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHIi l«l LPHIA
[No. 75, of Vol. lII.]
ON TURNPIKE ROADS
From the Caledonian Mercury, publiChed m Edinburgh
MR. PRINTER,
BEING frequently obliged by business to tra
verse difFerenc pans of this country, 1 foine
times offer to the public, such observations as oc
cur, through the channel of your paper. And
as I ain just now returned from an excursion to
the north, I beg leave to fubinit to your readers,
a few remarks on the state of the roads, as 1 con
ceive it to b« a fubjedl of very great importance.
To the northward of the Forth, I found the
roads in general bad. But beyond Perth, tliey
they were so excessively deep, as to be nearly im
-paflable. Tired and jaded, as a traveller mull
i»e in going through a country in these circum
stances, it is natural to think that that subjeCt
iliould be frequently started in conversation.
This was my cafe ; and 1 was nota little surpris
ed to find, that among a uuinerous set of people,
who are in general poflefted of quick pares, and
found underitandings, prejudices ihouldl'o gene
rally prevail against the erection of turnpikes.
This appeared to ine one of the ftrongeit initauc
es of the force of habit, and early prejudice,that
1 ever observed. It is, I think, impoilible to de
vise a ta"x, that in its operation is so fair and e
quitable, as a toll for making and keeping the
roads in repair ; because it is the persons who
are to be benefited by the roads, and they alone,
who thus are inade to pay for it ; and it is exact
ing only from tbofe,who damage those very roads
that the money they pay is intended to repair.
Yet, in this instance, we find, that the multitude,
instead of wiftiing to remove from themselves a
heavy load, by laying a part of it upon strangers
and travellers, chule, voluntarily, to fubjedt
themselves to n very heavy tax, that others may
be treed from it. Common sense would dictate
that national prejudices Jhould have been in fa
vor of turnpikes, and againil the iiatute labor,
liad not experience discovered the contrary.
In talking on this fufcject, I found one objecti
on very universally urged against turnpikes, viz.
that those parts of the country arc yet too poor
for admitting of them, and travellers too few to
pay for the expence ot turnpike keepers, &c.
But if the country is poor, by what device can
they Contrive to enrich it so suddenly, as that of
carrying good roads through the country ? For,
without roads, it is obvious, that no improvements
in agriculture can be made ; and if travellers are
few, how can their numbers be augmented so ef
fectually, as by making the roads so good, as to
invite travellers to frequent them ? These pro
politions are felf-evjdent ; but as in cases of this
fort, one authentic fatft is worth a thousand ar
guments, I lhall here state a few facts that have
fallen unde<- my own observation, that ought to
"oe entirely decisive on this fubjetft.
1 am old enough to remember tMefirft turnpike
ast for Scotland, and to recoiled! the itate of the
roads from Glasgow to Edinburgh, and in the
neighbourhood of this metropolis, as well as the
state of the country, with repaid to agriculture,
and internal commerce, before rhat period. Anil
thus it was—believe it who will, 1 am confident
no one who then knew these things will contra
tlicft me.
At that time, a journey from Glasgow toEdin
burg was an arduous undertaking, at any season
of the year. It could only be performed on foot
or horleback ; and, during the winter l'eafon, it
whs a matter of the uttnoft difficulty. The roads
were so excelfively rough and deep, that a horse
then could fcarcdy attempt to fti ike a trot, and
the inns were so poor and the accommodations so
bad, that it made the ftoutetl heart thrink from
attempting the enterprize ; for, with the belt
horses, it was two days journey at the leall, and
often more. For the truth of what is here said,
] appeal to the honorable commander in chief of
his Majesty's forces in Scotland, who was some
times obliged to undertake this journey at that
period.
At present, it is well known to be an easy jour
ney> ol " eight hours only, which can he
performed by the motl'delicate lady, at all fea
iuns, by tvght or by day, without vifk or danger.
At that time, 1 am pretty confident, that not
more than ten or a dozen carriages of any fort,
carts included, pah'ed in a year between Glasgow
and Edinburgh. All the commercial intercourse
being then carried on, between these two great
cities, by a Itiing of ten or a dozen pack-horses,
Saturday, January 14, 1792.
who went and returned once a week ; the lead
ing horse being ornamented with bell's, on pur
pole to p;ive notice to travellers not to enter into
narrow defiles, where ihey could not pass this
then formidable troop. Where, 1 could alk, is
the road in the north of Scotland, leading be
tween two coniiderable towns, that is so little
frequented as this road then was ! What is its
present fiate ?
To answer this question with exact precision,
requires more knowledge than I am pollelled of;
but I make not a doubt, that, including the roads
which lead to Glagfow, there are not fewer than
a hundred carriages pass the turnpikes every
day, on an average throughout the year. The
money borrowed oil the turnpike a<St, enabled
the truitees to wake roads, and these roads be
ing made, have attracted travellers to frequent
them, which they could 110 c otherwise have
done.
I now proceed to observe, that with rcfpeift to
the improving of the country, the good roads
have enabled farmers not only to carry the pro
due of their farins to market, but alio to biing
manures from a diitance, at an expence greatly
l.ess than they otherwise could have done. The
confeqence is, thai farms have rilen universally
in their value, to more than double their former
amount, and the farmers, at the fame time, are
much richer than formerly. Many places are
now converted into good fields of torn and hay,
where nothing but heath before grew ; becauie
a market is brought to their very doors for ihefe
articles, in confequcnce of opening the roads.
For it has been computed that no less than ten
or twelve thouland pounds a year has been left
upon the road between Glasgow and Edinburgh,
by travellers, three-fourths of which gtes to the
enconragement of agriculiure, in a diitritf, that,
without this circuinltaiice, niuft have ever conti
nued a defart watle.
As to tlie effects of the turnpikes upon the in
habitants of the towns, they have been as benefi
cial as on those in the country. Hsy, which be
fore that period, could not be brought from more
than two miles from town, is now brought from
the distance of twelve or fifteen miles all round,
and the average price of that article, which used
to be about Bd. per ltone, is now reduced to a
bout though the quantity now consumed in
Edinburgh be perhaps a thousand times greater
than at the time I allude to. Till the turnpikes
had been made, it would have been nearly as
practicable to rear a palace in the moon, as to
ereift the buildings that have been conftruCred
within the last twenty years in Edinburgh. The
hundredth part of the holies that are wanted for
these fabrics, would have occasioned a famine for
provender in one week's time.
The inhabitants of Edinburgh, however, like
inhabitants of every other place who know no
better, complained of the hardship they would
be fubjedted to by the turnpikes, as the toll there
exacted, they thought, woyld enhance the price
of the necellaries of life that were coming to them.
What has been the consequence ! It has already
been dated as to hay. With regard to coals ; be
fore the turnpike act, all the coals were brought
to Edinburgh in sacks, upon horses backs ; and
the large't load at that time, I have been afl'ured,
was 400 weight. Now, the load of the smallest
single horse-cart that can be exposed to sale in
Edinburgh, mull weigh 1200 wt. ;ind I saw paid
the oilier day, to a common coal driver, the price
of 2300 wt. for a lingle horse-cart of coals. The
toll 011 this cart is two-pence. So that, in this
instance, 2300 weight of coals, or nearly fix horse
loads, was brought from (he distance of fix miles,
for two-pence to the consumer. In the carriage
of grain of all forts, and merchandize of every
kind, there is nearly the fame saving. An ordi
nary load for a single cart to Glasgow, is from
2000 to 2500 weight, inliead of 300 or 400 wt. as
formerly.
From these faiSs it is clearly demonftrated,that
turnpikes are the greatest blelfings that "can be
conferred on a country ; and that, inflead of
proving burdensome, either to the inhabitants of
a town or the country, they are in the highest
degree beneficial to both. Were it poflible to
let alide the turnpikes, and bring the roads back
to their former state, in the south of Scotland.an
universal bankruptcy of tenants, landlords, and
artisans, mart be the immediate consequence.
How ihort-fighted then niurft those people be,who
by opposing turnpikes, strive to cuntinue tbeni
297
|y >>^0
[Whole No %.]
selves in the fame degree of deba^ eilie to which
ihefe would be reduced in ca* c'f f" cil 311 eVeiic
having taken place.
With regard to travellers, the v ' arf ' equally be
nefited by turnpikes as every otli er order
ot the people—For although it ft'ems to take mo
ney from them, yet it actually foves to them, up
on the whole, a great Heal that muitotber
wife have given out. Here too, facts ihal! speak
for thenifelves.
Perhaps the easiest mode of computing tl,e ex
pence of travelling is, by comps» r ' n g the price
lor a feat in the fly or ftage-coacfi from one place
to another, equally distant, when w »th or with
out turn-pikes.* For as the undertakers p y for
the turnpikes, where there are an?> th ' B forms
a part of the expence in one cafe, vi'hich tluy are
not under the necessity of paying in f hfe other—
By this rule then let us compare thtf expence of
travelling with or without turnpike?-
Krom Glasgow to Edinburgh, the geared road
is 44 miles ; the price of a llage ticket is eight
{hillings ; which is something less taai? two-pence
farthing a mile
From Edinburgh to Aberdeen ">ile.= .
The price of a Itage ticket two n< which
is a Iniall fratftion less than four- c * ' niilc.
In the firil cafe there are turn-j irougli
the greatell part of the road to A 1 \ there
are none. In this lall cafe, the tr lii :i 'g e
is nearly double to that from G1 o\'
burgh. Yet, notwithstanding this c< 1 • ant
charge, in confequtnce ot the badne s 1 1 ( ' s >
the loss of horses, the breaking of hai * ,e
repairs of machinery, &c. are so greai,' '' * ve
the undertakers so little profit, that ihey dl u "
fually obliged to give it up forfome won stacli
winter ; during which time, nothing less :;aa 4
horses can drag along, even an empt , •» vl *% e -
He that hath ears to hear, let him obi'- -nd
if these facts do not convince his unde n S>
let him continue to be an object of d< by
every man of common sense.
* To travellers, who are men of bulinefs, the mere difference of
stage hire is not the moll important advantage. The journey be
ing looner performed, they are enabled to tianfaft their business
more Jpeedily, and to save much time, which to them may be
morevainable. There is also a confiderabic saving in travelling
expc rices.
LONDON, Otftoberit
THE old labels, at our goldfniiths' windows,
of Light Guineas bought here, are mostly all
now taken down, and in their Head the new la
bels of Louis d'Ors bought here, every where ap
pear. From this it would appear, that the French
Revolution has done some good to this country.
The ensuing winter is expelled to be unconi'
monly brilliant, from the arrival of the Ouchefs
of York. Should the Prince Royal of Prussia ac
company his filter—as it has been reported ac
Berlin he intends to do—the Ladies in Waiting
very jultly observe, it is itnpoflible to fay what
may happen.
A most extraordinary and truly eccentric cha
racter has lately appeared in the Province of
Weflphalia, in Germany : He is a young man,
under thirty, and has the wonderful faculty of
diffinguifhilig colours in the dark.—Several pub
lic experiments have been made, and every pre
caution taken to detect hint as an impostor, buc
in vain ; he tells the colour in a moment, and
with the greatest exattnefs.
PERSIA.
This kingdom has long been diffracted with
intelline wars, and the one which at present ex
ists, threatens to prove more destructive than any
former one.
The party of the ("on of the late Jaffer Khawn
daily increases, and mo(t of the provinces have
espoused his cause. His opponent, however, re
tains Shiraz, and with it the provinces of Canda
liar, Jorgan, Jefletten, and two others. He isac
the head of 100,000 men, but (j universally de
tested, that moll of his own family are continu
ally plotting against him. One of his brothers
was, a few mouths (ince, put to death, for keing
concerned in a conspiracy against him.
Ispahan, once esteemed the uoblell city of the
East, has been made the scene of adlion.—lts in
habitants, within a few years, were estimated to
amount to one million ; at present, the city ami
suburbs do not contain half that number.
VIA i OACONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUS 3 REPRESENTATIVES,
] December 22.
In commit ee of-1| ; whole, on the bill relative to the
choice , el/Bo, rs 0 f President and Vice-Pre J: dent ;
d termintfjjg w Jjat ojflcer Jhall ast as President
ca J e °J vac 'mcies in the office both of Prejident
and | ice-Prejr.j elit^
JTHt k'" '.vas read by the Clerk—the firlt
lection •, as t hen read by the Chairman,
.j." * ucker- nioved to amend this clause by
linking out these words, " except in cases in
vv lich an exti aordinary election of President and
Vice-Pi pficien t flhtaJl take place, as hereinafter
peciheci ; this metion was agreed to.
Mr. iedgvvi L .] 4 madefome general observations
on the gru objects of the bill, and adverting to
the term p'opofed for the choice of elec r tor>i of
1 elident ,j Vice-President—observed that he
nad his do bts whether it would not be belt to
£ lve a j' 1 i j time. He enlarged on the difa
greejble . onfequerices which would probably
Vn)ue,iii c a f e (here Ihould not be a choice by the
e | C " :s * as the bufinef# mult then be determi
iiec y t h e House, voting, according to the con
ltitution, by States. He difcanted'on the per
nicious ' on f«(]uences which might result from
the co in' loa of parties, and the working of paf
11011s Hi he breads of men whose ardor would
proba be exc i teci to the grcateft degree UIJ
lucli u ca f lon .he said every reasonable mea
ure i, j.| he adopted to prevent the evils which
le c e ated ; he therefore moved that the
words tydays{hould be struck out, ill order
t0 g u< e people a longer time to give in their
votes electors.
hite objected to 1 the motion ; he con-
C^'. v ' '- c w as calculated to produce the very snif
chie h e gentleman appeared to deprecate. If
Kll -en polfible, he could have wiihed that
t - lf itors Ihould meet and give in their votes
01 j veVy day of their being chosen ;he wi(h
much as the gentleman to adopt nieafures
event the evils he mentioned — but did not
- the motion would conduce to that object ;
.bought the time Ihould rather be contracted
extended.
Mr. Dayton also objected to the motion ; he
thought 14 days would be a more proper time ;
i : was the deiign of the conftituiion,, though it
is not exprefled, that the President lhould & not
know the characters to whom he is indebted for
his election.
Mr Sedgwick observed that the objections
would be very proper was it certainly known
that the dehors would always agree in a choice ;
but this he conceived, it was hardly polfible
Ihould always be the cafe—and what will then
taxe place Ihe election devolves on this house
and the electors will then be known, and liable
to all that inti igue and cabal which has prevail
ed in other countries. He left it to the consi
deration ol the committee to determine 011 the
i mine life importance of providing in season a
gainlt the evils of a contelted election, in the cafe
now belore them.
Mr. Baldwin objected to the motion ; but said
if it was It ruck out, he (hould then move to insert
a clause which ihould alfign different periods ac
cording to the circufnftances of the several States
that the electors Ihould meet as nearly as pol
fible at the fame time in all the States.
Mr. Niles objected to the motion ; and the
qneftion being put, it was negatived.
The clause which makes it the duty of the ex
ecutive of the several States to cause ihe names
ol the electors to be certified, was objected to
Mr. Niles observed that no person could be
called upon to discharge any duty on behalf of
tije United States, who had not accepted of an
appointment under their authority. Hethoujilu
that this was opening the doo> too wide, and in
volves a blending oft he relpective powers and du
nes of each, which are not warranted by the con
ftituiion ; and he observed that he Ihould be
sorry that the government of the United States
Ihould attempt to exercise a power which thev
are not competent to carrying into execution.
He nioved that the clause Ihould be struck out
Mr. Sedgwick observed that if Congress were
not authorized to call 011 the executives of the
several States, he could not conceive what de
ception of persons they were empowered to call
upon.
Mr. Niles said he considered this section as
degrading to the executive of the several States ;
and enquired what is to be done in cafc those I
executives ftiould refufe to comply with the re
quifition ! t
Mr. Clark said jt appeared to jjim that the
committee was creating difficulties where none
before existed. He observed' that the chufing
these electors was a privilege conferred oil the
people, and that this was merely pointing out
the modeof exercifingthis privilege ; he thought
the clause flood very well and would create no
uneasiness whatever. •>
Mr. Hillhoufe said he considered the provision
improper, it imposed a duty on the supreme ex
ecutives of the several States, which they might,
or might not execute ; and thus the neceifary
certificates may not be made. He seconded the
motion to strike out the clause, and proposed a
fubftitnte making ic the dnty of the electors to
procure for themselves the necessary certificates.
Mr. Livermpre spoke in favor of the clause ;
he did not conlider it either as an undue affutn
tion of power, or degrading to the executives of
the refpeiftive States.
Mr. Barnwell said a small addition to the clause
would in his opinion obviate every difficulty ;
the words he proposed to insert were—or fucli
person as the executive may appoint.
Mr. Sturges moved to strike out " Executive,"
and insert the Legijiature.
Mr. J. Smith said it appeared to him that the
proposed alteration would amount to exactly the
fame thing—for theduty of givingthe certificate
would eventually devolve on the executive.
The motion for striking out the clause was ne
gatived.
, The yth fetflion provides that in cafe of va
cancies in the offices of President and Vice-Pre
fident, the President of the Senate pro tem. or
the Speaker of the House of Representatives fliall
acft as President. Mr. White moved the fe<ftion
should be struck out—he said the House had for
merly difeufled the fubjedt and could not agree :
the fir it part of the bill is neccflary—this he said
is not of immediate importance to be attended to.
Mr. Kitzfimons said he supposed the q-ueftion
mull be determined some time or other, and he
knew? of no reason why it fhduld not be decided
at this time ; to strike out the clause would in
effetft be to declare that the House could not
agree
Mr. Williamfon was in favor of striking our.
Mr. Livermore objected to the motion ; lie said
no two iubjeCls could possibly be more intimate
ly connected—and the provisions of Llie bill are
Inch as to render the intermission, during wlucli
tliis regency was to take place, as Ihort as polli
ble—he hoped the clause would not be struck out.
Mi. VV hite added some further objections to the
fediion ; he said it was diltindt from the bill, and
though a majority of the committee were in fa
vor of the characters nominated—yet bethought
it would be belt to make it the objedt of another
bill, and of an independent discussion.
Mr. Sedgwick said he hoped the fectioo would
not be struck out, especially if there is a majori
ty of the committee in favor of it. He observed
that 1a it feflion there was no decision in the cale
he conceived it neceflkry that the business should
be now decided on—and adverting to the par
ticular characters named —he said.they were as
far removed from any influence of the executive
as any perlons that could possibly be pointed out.
Mr. Barnwell was in favor of going into a dif
cirlnon of the lubjeCl at this time fie laid there
was a large number of the present House who
had not heard the obl'ei vations offered in thelalt
Congress ; lie fuppufed the present as proper a
time to eonhder the fubjetft as any that could
occur—if gentlemen who are opposed to the lec
tion will offer their objections, he fhauld be Had
to hear them ; jt they were conchifive, he /huuld
vote to ft'"ike out the section. If nothing was
offered he should vote againlt the motion.
Mr.Starges mentioned several objections to
the lection, which m his opinion rendered it un
conihtutional ; he could not find that the Speak
er of the House or Prelident of the Senate 4,•„
an. weie officers of the government in the sense
contemplated by the conltitution. The com pen
fat ions of the Frefident and Vice-Prfefident are
(ettled by the House ; the Speaker would have
to decide on those csmpenfations, this he said
rendered him evidently improper. He further
oblerved that the confcquence would be, caball
lnf,an? electioneering in lhe choice of Speaker.
lr. \\ hite the Speaker was not a perma
nent otncer, if he could be considered as one in
any point of view—but he was of opinion, that
he was no more an officer of government than
every other member of the House.
I"he queltion for fhiking out the fedion was
negatived.
Mr. Sturges then moved to strike out the
words " the President of the' Senate pro tempore,
and the Speaker of the Houi'e of Representatives."
i /',? Hated tlie reasons which he conceiv
-1 ,ul V P rovecl 'lie unconflit utionality of the
clause. 1 he■characters referred to he did not
think were officers. If they had been confide, ed
as inch it ts probable iliey would have beeii de
iiguated m the couftiiution j the coiiftitution re
298
fers to foine permanent officer to be creaied nu.
fuant to the provisions therein contained. 1
i heie persons are not permanent ; a perm i
nent officer was contemplated, the fubieft w"
not to be left to any cafualty,.if it could pufiiblv
be prevented
Mr. Sedgwick said Jie did not know what of
ncer could with propriety be said tote per, )la
nent ; offices are held during good behavior
some instances, and in others during pleasure—
but-it will be impolTible to fay that any officer is
a permanent officer, for ,»he exprfeflion is very ex
tenflve. *
He was surprized to hear the idea controvert
ed, that the Speaker of the House, or the Presi
dent of the Senate, pro tem. is .not an officer —
In common parlance he was sure there was no
difficulty in the business.
Mr. Gerry observed chat some gentlemen had
said the Speaker is not an officer— bnt if he is noc
ail officer, what is he ?—He theji read a clanfe
from the confutation, which fays that the House
(hall choose their Speaker and other officers.—
hoped, however, that the Speaker of thp House
of Representatives woufd he struck out, in order
to avoid blending the legiffative and executive
branches together—He considered thw measure
as a political stroke of the Senate ; Jput he hoped
that the House would never consent to making
their Speaker an amphibious animal—He moved
therefore thafc the words " Speaker of the House
of Representatives" ifhould be struck aut.
Mr. Hillhoufe objected to any officer appointed
by the executive's being inferred—He said, if
that should be ihe cafe, the appointments would,
in molt cases be made with reference to that ob
and hence important offices would often be
filled with improper and incompetent characters
— Betides, it was taking away the choice from
the people, and thus violating the firft principle
of a free elective government. The Senate Hie
appointed by the people, or their representatives,
and hence, in his opinion, filling the vacancy
would devolve with the greatell propriety on
that body.
Mr. Williamfon was in favor of the motion
for (hiking out both the characters.—He observ
ed, that this extensive conftrntftion of the meau
ing ofthe word officer, would render it proper
to poiut out any person in the United States,whe
ther connected with the government or not, as a
proper person to fill the vacancy cont6inplated.
WEDNESDAY, January jr.
A meflkge, from die Pixlident of the United
Stares, was delivered by Mr. Secretary Lear, to
getiier with two reports from i lie Secretary of
the Department of War, refpetfing thefiiuation
o( affairs ill the Wettern Country —Which bein"
confidential', the gallery was cleared.
i liURSDAY, January 12.
A nieflage was received l'roni tlicSenate by Mi
Ons their Secretary, informing that they have
palled the bill lent from the House, extending
t ie tune liinitted for fettling accounts between
tile United States and individual States, with a
inendinents, to which they icqueil the concur
lence oi the Houic.
Alio, that ihey have pafled a bill for the en
couiagement of the bank and other cotl-fifh.
eries, and for regulating clie seamen employed
t iei exii, in which they requelt the concurrence
of the House.
I he House i hen proceeded to the reading of
li„ papeis and documents communicated in the
1 ieiideiit's ir.clfage of yelterday—which occa
lioued the galleries Co be /hut.
T , ... . FRIDAY, January 13.
I'i V' 1 lorn l ' le Senate, entitled art act for the cncouragc
icnt of the bank, and other osa-fifhei ies, and to regulate the fifii
ermen employed therein, was read the H,ft and fcco.id tint s, and
relcrred to a committee ol the whole Hotile-tu be the order of
ihc day so, the 23d instant. '
A ineffage was received from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary Otis
' 1 \ r , 1 11 '" 'heHoufe 'hat they have pa(fed a bill, entitled, "An
■ e '"8 a Mint, and regulating the Coins of the United
■ les ui which they lequeit the concurrence of theHoufc— read
the bill and fecotid times, aud referred to a committee of the
ole House—to be the order of the day for Thursday next,
011 ' ncms °' l ' lc Senate to the bill for extending the time
• , c . °* culuig tbc accounts oi the United States with the
n.7 US US ' weic ' ,11 0 confederation, and agreed to—
1 j c am^ n -ents piovided, by an additional fe£tion, for the set-
I ,' "j° l . a «"Mm»ofihe (late of Vermont—laid accouuts to
' d by tile firft of December next.
th ,™ m 'r °," Ule f )cuiiu " ul Richard Lloyd, reported,that
the petitioner have leave ,0 withdraw his petition.
anil uavm"!! °f eor ß e was lead, praying f'ettletnent
II vorl *(' a " ac, " ou,lt '°i trucking of sundry public pioper
f'cT ed 1 [h i ' hte " dVy bMrd ,ur < hc Kaliern Depattment
" ° Se «"» r y of the Treasury— Sundry other petitions
A'oetitioft " T d ' fferCnt h " ds ol departments.
Virpini wl "" X Ullliiu itants of the county of Frederick,
diftilf-d'f i a mo dification aud alteration of the
Te Ho 1'• 'J'r rCd to tht S « r " ar v 'he Treasury.
mor alof F "' C | ,lle ; co " r »»«'"o" of the report on the me
nu; with tl J "i" IJ° » Others, coinnnfTioners for treat
fubftau« ■( r ~ an BlCCdtC>lh<: lo "ow'%' resolution, in
oroo r a C T""" VC a PP"""cd to br.ng in a lull toap
iialifts an J 'fn U ' n t ° ft- dollars, to be aliowed to the memo
n, f omVrf ?" their extra exoences in going to, and return
pooin d K V : Mcffrs - Tucktr . G.les, and J. Smith, were
appouiteu the corniniitce. % J
lu committee ot the whole nn rh* k;n ~r
rn u. u the bill to ascertain aim regulate
inc. claims to naif pav. arid tn hiujU , > r »*-•
• , , " . » to luvalia pennons. The committee
nade fund,y amendments to the bill; aud proceeded thTolgl'
w.tl he r° e°d w hole_they then , ofe aud repo, ted the fame
with the amendments which weie latd on tl.e taoU, and the
aujournt*, tiu Mjtidav iu xtton THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
IF it be for the advantage of the public to be
deceived with regard to fatfts, then the late
writers against the Indian war deserve a very
peculiar regard. For it is probable, that of ail
the ways to produce the greatelt poilible error
on this point, and to make it lalt the greatelt
polfible time, none will be found more fuccefsful
than to receive the teftitnony of thofewho k«ow
nothing of the matter, and to fubrnit to the judg
ment of those who would be forty to find the
truth on the fide of the government, or it's offi
cers. He that is not for us. is againlt us; and
truth on the fide of our adversaries, like fpedta
tors in a mob after the reading of the riot act, is
to be hunted down like any other enemy. In
deed it is the moll, ltubborn of them.
In pursuance of the firlt remark, it will be pro
per to aik many honest men of warm hearts,
•whether they chufe to be convinced —Duty may
fay, seek truth, and be cool and flosv in judging
of public men and public tneafures. Some will
lake this prudent couufel ; others will lilten to
their firft feelings. Finding fault with govern
ment is a ||ood thing—it nourishes, according to
these falfe teachers, thefpirit of republicaniftn—
it brings down the fat of those who eat the bread
of office—it keeps the world in a buffle, and
makes sport. To enumerate the causes of error
■which lurk in the human heart, and make the
firlt iuipreffions unfriendly to government and to
Truth, would be writing an hiltory of human in
firmity :—Your Gazette would not hold it.—Let
Tnen, and wife men too, compare the firlt impref
lions of public measures with the last. Is there
a man who can wafli his hands, and fay, I never
unjustly censured the government.' I never made
up my judgment Suddenly upon it's measures,
•while truth was on her way to ask of me an hear
ing. Such a man ought to bemadea judge, tho'
110 lawyer.
Power is never viewed with indifference. In
the hands of bad men, we fear and detest it—
When pofiefled by good men, we refpeift and
sometimes admire it—We seldom love it ; and if
we did, fear is stronger as well aseafier to excite
than love—So that the human heart is framed to
fufpe<ft,to fear, and to hate superior power more
than the contrary. The accuser is received with
favor—the advocate of government is frowned
•upon as a poor spirited interested deceiving crea
ture. He who has studied mankind, need not be
told how much the love of the marvellous, the
third for vengeance, the spirit of envy, and the
pride of opinion, come in aid of the firft impres
sions against government. These conftderations
have their weight with men as individuals:—these
combustibles are fcattered-in every society, be
cause societies confilt of men :—it is loose pow
der which every chance spark may kindle. But
fee them divided into parties, /;< State Ltgijlaiurei
and in Congress—There faction has ram'd down
the charge, and primed it
In polities, therefore, truth has always a scur
vy time of it. What fort of respect are, we to pay
then to writers who censure government on the
fubject<of the Indian war f It' they know all the
fatfts, where did they obtain them ? And why in
their zeal for the poor Indians have they with
held them till the second campaign has ended ?
To these mock philosophers, is the blood that
two battles have spilled not worth the saving !—
Or will they confefs that they are wholly igno
rant of fadls, and that they have abused the go
vernment, and bawled philanthropy in the dark ?
it is the interest of the great body of the people
to be disabused, and at last it will be their desire.
In the mean time the opportunity has been An
gularly favorable to some few lie in wait to
wound the national government. They have
eagerly seized it. The doors were shut when
Congrefe adopted the measures—the event has
been unfortunate.
A score of misrepresentations has been made to
the public, as hardily as if they had been official
documents. The right of the Indians to their
lands, their wrongs and their virtues, the pride,
rapacity and raftinefs of the government of the
United States, and the neceflity of leaving the
war as it is, have been dilated upon, as if there
was a merit in making the people think meanly
of their own government—as if the blood of our
defencelefs frontier people was worth nothing—
as if tliefe savages had not for years pad scatter
ed their fiefh to fatten the unclean birds of the
wilderness. But to all the tales which have been
circulated, a single fact may be oppofed->—That
the government of the United States has never
aiked any thing of the hostile Indians but peice.
lit has fought 110 lands nor triumphs—it has
Nought peace in the love of it, money in hand—
year after year, by every means and thro' every
opening. So far from encroaching upon their
poileifions, it would have protected them—it
would have taught them the arts of cultivated
life, the life of the plough and of letters :—it
fought 110 influence but what would have been
procured for it among the savages by aifts of Le
neficence and virtue. Let the malignant couie
forward aiul disprove this it they can.
But if peace was ("corned, what was to be done ?
Shall the tomahayk tail upon the defencelefs wo
men and children ? The people of this country
have nature pleading in their hearts, and will
fay no. They ate citizens too, and underlland
the rights and duties of that character. They
know that government is bound to protect them.
It is to be hoped that rneafures will be taken
to lay open the conduc't of government to the
people. They will then fee whether it has ac'ted
in a manner becoming the trult, and the dittin
gui/hed confidence placed in the chief executive
uiagiltrate of the United States.
A Frl FNd to Government
WINCHES T E 11, Dec. 24
Tuesday afternoon arrived here from Fort-
Washington, Lieutenant Stevenson, of the Vir
ginia battalion of levies.— He was in the unfor
tunate action with the Indians 011 the 4th tilt,
and ha-s favored us with the following particu
lars, viz. That the number killed on our fide, a
inounts to including officers—that Majors
Brown, Clarke andGaither, Lieut. Hopper,£)uar
ter-Maftcrs, Ward, Reynolds and Semple, are
not among the slain as formerly Hated ; but that
Ensigns Wilson and Reeves, not mentioned be
fore, loft their lives in the unhappy conflict—
that Colonel Giblbn's wounds, it is thought, will
prove mortal — that Colonel Darke is but Hightly
wounded—that Capt. Darke, a molt proniifing
youth, received a inuiket-fhot in his face, which
fractured a jaw, and rendered him fpeeehlefs,but
that he is still alive—that the Kentucky militia,
which were to march with General Scott, did not
go ; General St. Clair having fignified to that
officer, thai the Fort had been amply fnpplied
with provifiolis, and every other requisite from
Head-Quarters —That Major Hamtramck, of the
ill United States regiment, is put under an ar
rest, for some supposed misconduCt 011 the day of
the action—that he had information of the de
feat, and was detached, but declined giving the
necellary fnccour to the retreat.*—That the ene
my's loss is conjeAured to be between one and
two hundred.—Number of our troops engaged
1400 —nu tuber of the enemy, supposed to be be
tween two and three thousand.
* He has fmce been tried and honorably acquitted
N E W-Y ORK, January 7
This morning Mr. Seley, mare of the sloop Hi
ram, was found dead in his cabin.—He had pre
vious to going to bed, made a fire in the (love, of
charcoal, and closed the cabin in such a manner
as to preclude all vent, which it is iuppofcd oc
casioned his death.
Jan. 10. Yesterday morning, about 4 o'clock,
tl«s city was alarmed by a nioft tremendous Fire,
which happened at a house in Front-llreet, be
tween the Fly-Market and Depeyrter-ftreet, by
means of which seven dwelling-houses were con
sumed, and several others much damaged. Hap
pily the wind blew in such a direction as to car
ry the embers froin the city. The honf'es de
stroyed were occupied by Mrs. Dickey, Mr. Rey
nolds, Mr. Hughes, Mr. Dennis M'Cready, Mr.
Lalor, and Mrs. Keeling.
The large buildings on the opposite fide of the
street were much scorched by the heat of the fire,
particularly the one belonging to Cary Ludlow,
Elq.
We learn that a subscription is opened for the
relief" of the fufferers.
Philadelphia, January 14.
The House of Representatives of the State of Georgia, have re
solved that James Jackson, Eiq. is by the free voice of the people
their Representative in Congress, for the lower diftritt of that
State, and that thro' mal-prattice he was not returned. The house
alio resolved that articles of impeachment be exhibited against the
Hon. Judge Ofborne, for high crimes and misdemeanors, referring
to his conduct in refpeft to the above elc£lion.
The account of the elopement of the King of France, is dated
at Washington the 26th December [not Ed ntori] —" The Staie
Gazette of North-Carolina," publilhed in Edenton on the 30th
of the fame month, contains no such account.
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
The numerous treaties lately formed with the Indian tribes on
terms so just and liberal as to occasion complaints on those vei y
accounts; and the overtures repeatedly made to form ftmilar trea
ties with those tribes now in arms against the United States, are
entirely winked out of fight by those who, at this particular crifis>
appear to feel so much for the rights of Indians, and so lutle for the
numberless burnings, murders, and lobberies committed for the
lall f< ven years on our frontier citizens, by those very Indians
who have thus refufed all terms of peace or accommodation.
There always has been a party in this country, whose interests
they conceive would be eficntially injured by the establishment of
Manufa&ures among us—and that has ever been
made since the peace, that embiaced this objtft upon any plan
that appeared feafible, has met with oppofuiou; and unfortunate
ly for our country, this oppoiitioo has hitherto been too fuccefs
ful. It is therefore natural to expect, in future, that the fame or
similar exertions will be .made to defeat those extensive designs
which are now on foot, to render the United States more truly and
substantially independent, by eflablilhing Manufactures on a com
petent scale.— But the people so fully realize their true interest in
this important buiinefs, that there is the strongest reason to hope,
that the influence of foreign connexions, cither of a political or
commercial complexion, will never be permitted again to dilap
point our expectations, or blast our profpe&s.
299
The zeal of some writers has oecaiioned them to charge Con
gress with enafling a funding law, imposing on the people a bur
den lour-f»ld greater than was necessary. Is it not fair to allc
persons who hold such language, why they did not begin their
complaints againlt those who have granted additions to the terms
of the funding f\ Item ? The truth is (and it contains a tull answer
to thef? complaints) that thole ltate legislatures and the legiflatuie
of the United Slates, have granted rales of in'.erelt which appeared
to them juit and confident with the public interclts in an enlarged
view of them.
In a late publication, which difcovcrs great apprchenfions about
the designs of the general government, and fears about the state
governments, Congress are severely censured lor leaving open a
door tor Bank Directors to be members of the federal legislature.
This reminds a correspondent of the old faying, " that it 15 fafer
lor some people to (teal a horse, than for othcisto look over the
hedge." Though not one (late legislature has prohibited slate
Bank Dire£tors from fitting in thole bodies, it is an abominable
thing lor Congress to leave the tame thing upon the fame footing.
How jaundiced mull be the eye which views the systems of
Congress as pernicious to the-honor, interests and happiuefsof
our country! Although the impartial foreign world tefounds with
applaufrs for the revival of our public credit— lor the maintenance
ot honesty between man and man—for the restoration of commerce
and the advancement of manufactures— tlio' the resulting prospe
rity of our increasing agriculture is attracting the attention of the
molt intelligent nations of Europe—tho* our government is the
Irequent topic of the eulogies of the struggling patriots of the old
world, the tongue of prejudice and error is incelfantly recounting
a different tale to the happy people of the United States. Ame
ricans, be fober-mmded. Think for yourselves, and that seriously.
Let not the effufions of heated minds have any influence on those
reflections concerning public affairs, which it is the duty of every
free citizen to make.
Liberty, like any other good thing, is to be used with difcrr
tion. Cry huzza, and down with Government —is there any li
berty in this ? Ihe lew who govern ihe many, often raise this cry,
and possess themselves of the power of a multitude who join in it.
But again—is this liberty, or the power of a lew ?In sober times,
when the laws have no pallions, the multitude really governs.
The people, therefore, by lupporting the laws, support liberty and
equal right, which they already possess—by opposing the laws
with force they put all at risk. Aic the oppofers ol the excise
sons of liberty ?
1 he people cannot always watch their privileges—they cannot
always create a spirit or union to oppose anv encroachment upon
them. 7 here lore it is I heir duty, and should he their fir ft care to
provide such securities, that liberty will be in a degree fafe, while
the people are about their business. Govcrnm«nt is naturally di
vided into three branches. When thus divided, one branch will
watch and check the others. Liberty cannot be loft by a plot;
for the losing branch will surely call upon the people. We are
always sure of one marplot in every scheme against liberty. In
every other plan of government, we may be deceived by relying
on the virtues of the best men. But on the idea of these branches
the vices and pa (lions of men may be depended on, at least so far
as to rclift any encroachment upon their lawful authority. Ac
cordingly the constitutions of America have adopted this plan,
and we may justly hope that our great grandsons will enjoy the
bleflings of it
On Tuesday last the Diteftors of the Bank of North-America
proceeded to the choice of a President, and John Nixon, Esq. was
unanimously ele&ed.
At the annual ele&ion for Dire&ors of the Bank of North-Ame
rica, held on Monday at said Bank, the following gentlemen were
chosen for the ensuing year
John Nixon
ThorHas Fitzdmons
Jofiah Hewes
Mordeca'i Lewis
Joseph Swift
John Swanwick
APPOINTMENTS—BY AUTHORITY.
Jan. 12, 1792. —The Prefidcnt of the United States, by and with
the advice and content of the Senate, has appointed
Gouverneur Mor r rs, of be Minister Pleni
potentiary tor the United States at Paris, and
Thomas Pinckney, of South-Carolina, to be Minister Pleni
potentiary lor the United States at London.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 24f pr. £
3 pr. Cents 14fS
Defered 6 pr. Cent* h 15A
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settk and other Certificates 20/6 do.
Indents 14/ 70 do.
Stock—half shares 109 per cent premium.
—whole {hares 60 per cent.
Annapolis, January 1, 1792.
At a Meetingof the Vifitorsand Governors of St. John's College,
in the State of Maryland, 011 Thursday the 10th of Novem
ber last,
RESOLVED,
THAT this Board, at the quarterly meeting in May next,pro
ceed to ele& a Vice-Principal of St. John's College.
" That it be the duty of the Principal and Vice-Principal, to
teach some of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek, certain
parts of the Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural Philoso
phy ; and that the departments of the said Principal and Vice-
Principal (hall heiealter be aicertained with precision, on confe
derations of their mutual convenience and refpe&ive qualifications.
That the Vice-Principal (hall be entitled to receive, for his ser
vices, a salary of three hundred and fifty pounds, cuhent money,
rating dollars at yf6 each, to be paid quarterly.
That persons desirous of, and qualified for the appointment of
Vice-Principal, be, by public advertisement. rcquefted to make ap
plication to Mr. Charles Wallace, tyr. CharlesCarroll of Carroll
ton, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hanfon, all of the city of Anna-
By order of the Board,
JOHN THOMAS, President.
N. B. The fundamental Laws of St. John's College piohibit all
preference on account of religious tenets or opinions.
As the appointment of a Vice-Principal is alone wanted, t»
compleat the plan of this rising seminary, the Board will certainly
proceed to the ele£tion at the dated time; provided a person qua
lified, in their judgment, for this important station, can be pro
cured. The personal attendance of the candidates, although not
positively required, will beobvioufly proper.
It may be ufeful to remark, that the falariesof all the profefTors
and teachers have hitherto been paid with entire punctuality ; and
that the funds of St. John's College produce a certain annual in
come, superior to all the appropriations, which have been, or pio
bably will be made.
polis.
(£3~* The Pi inters of newfpapcrs throughout the United States,
are earnestly requeued to insert the above resolve and remark—
and to repeat the publication as often as convenience will permit.
George Latimer
John Morton
Henjamin Fuller
Robert Wain,
Miers Fisher
William Smith
pr. cent.
7.3T do
-75 do.ADD R
TO TH& CITIZENS OF
WESTMORELAND, WASHINGTON, FAYETTE AND
ALLEGHANY COUNTIES.
ON THE
revenue LAW.
Bv JOHN NEVILLE, Inspector of the RkvenU*
Sukvey No. 4, District Pennsy lvani a.
AFTER having shewn you ihat the conjeflure of the commit
tee is without foundation, I will fubinu to you what 1 sup
pose to be the real Rate of the matter.
An additional revenue was wanting to fulfil the engagements,
and fatisfy the exigencies ot the government. Congress, upon full
and mature deliberation, were of opinion, that ihe dunes on im
ported article* were, in general, fufficieutly high, and that it could
not be had from an increale of them. They tound therafclves
under the neccflity of resorting to some internal resource of an ex
tensive nature. None piefented itfelf which appeared likely to
be adequate to the objedt, but a duty on home-made spirits, which
are an article of general consumption, or a tax on houses and lands.
They could not, even if they had been so dilpofed, make ule of
the latter, becaufr the rule prescribed ior if, by the conftuuiion,
the number of people, was riot, as before oblcrvcd, then obtained.
But if this obstacle had not extfted, they had every ieaton to be
lieve, from the ilrong objections, which were made before the
conftitutiou was adopted, and from the informationihey had ob
tained of ihc sense ol the great majority ot their conftituenrs, that
a duty 011 diftillcd spirits would be more acceptable to the com
munity at large, thai! a tax on houses and lands, and therefore pie
ferred the former.
1 his, fellow-citizens, is a very simple account of the matter, and
I am firmly convinced it was the sincere judgment of Cougrefs.
As such I leave it with your candor and good sense.
Fellow-ciiizens, the committee have gone a great length in this
buunefs. They have alfembled not merely to express what they
underilood to beyourfentimeuts; to make thofefeotiments known
to Congress, and to apply tor an alteration or repeal of the law to
which you objc& ; but to give form and shape to a systematic
comb i nation to prevent the execution of the la w, in the
nrll inllance, to render it as far as their opinion wou!d go, disre
putable lor a citizen to accept or exercise an office under it, and
what is still more, to compel Congress to revise a system, which
they, upon mature deliberation, have deemed eflcntial to a fulfil
ment of the obligations of government, to the lupport of public
credit, to the power of procuring new aids in cafe of future emer
gencies, to the reputation of the nation abroad and at home. And
they have formally invited the neighbouring country to unite in
this combination ; telling chem in express terms, that it is not
merely the demolition of an odious excise law which they
have in view, but a revision of the whole funding sys
tem.
Did such of you as have given countenance to the meeting of
this committee contemplate all that has happened ? Was it your
intention to have the moll important meafurcs of Congress, rela
tive to the most delicate concerns of the nation, rejudged and rc
verfed ? Or did you mean only to promote the alteration or re
peal of a particular law ? Are you thoroughly aware of all the
consequences of accompanying the committee in this plan ? Have
you fcrioufly weighed them, and are you prepared to meet them ?
No, you certainly are not. You love )our country too well;
you arc too geod citizens and too good men, to be willing to put
lo much at (lake for so inadequate a cause.
1 he committee themselves, it is earneflly to be hoped and be
lieved, cannot have been aware of all the tendencies of their own
xneafures.
The means proposed to defeat the law are, lft. to express to
Congtefs the sense ot those who unite in their views; and adly. to
discourage the acceptance of offices under the law.
As to the firft expedient, the manner in which, and the express
views with which their representation has been made, are, lam
sorry to fay, not much calculated to recommend it to Congress.
In their address to that body, it is true, they atfure them of " the
highetl veneration lor the government of the United States, and
foi the laws of the late Coogrcfs in general ; but in their refo-
Jutions, they express an opinion, as resulting from a consideration
of those laws, '• that mi a very (hort time hasty strides have
" been made to all that is UNJUST and OPPRESSIVE; that
■' Congrets have granted Exorbitant Salaries totheir officers, and
!' Unreasonable Interest upon the public debt, and this upon
principles contrary to the ideas of natural justice, contrary to
I' >!* INTEREST and HAPPINESS of the States, and fubver
tive of industry ; that they have created a capital of near eighty
'' two m.ilions of dollars in the bands of a few persons enabling
" them to t n flu en C£ a lew occasionally in power to invade
the conifitution," and cite as a proof of their actually
having done it the acl constituting a national bank; deno
minating at the fame time the excise ast as the " base offspring
of the funding system ;" and in their address to the neighboring
countics of Pennsylvania and Virginia, and the State of Kentucky •
they avow a deftgn to bring about a rcvifion of the funding fyf
tern ; thit is the subversion ol one of the moil arduous and im
pouant measures, which has engaged the deliberations of the go.
vernment. I sincerely wiffi that these things were more recon
ctleable to each other than they appear to me to be.
But, independently of the manner, what probability is there
that this representation can be attended with success ?
There is certainly no likelihood that a repeal of the law will
bedefued by any thing like the major part of the union be
caufc the certain alternative, a tax on lands, would be far more
disagreeable ; and to repeal it on the authority of a minor part of
the union, would be deftrufiive ol liberty.
The committee, indeed, tell you, as if to induce a belief, that
the fp.r.t of oppoGtion to the law was general, that in the South
em States; Grand juries are presenting u as a grievance ; and in
the Northern, allocations are forming to decline dialling alto
gether. In a matter offuch importance, it would certainly have
been proper to have spoken with greater caution. Lei us fee how
ine tact really lianas.
In, single county of a s.ncl* State,namelySourh-Carolina,
ONEgrand jury has done what the commute alledee Does
this comport w.th the latitude of the terms which areufed ? '• In
the Southern Stales Grand juries are prcfenting it as a grievance 'i
t I" Vft'if L V TV 0l a r s , INCLE Sta,t > namely, New-York,
feme dilbllcrs have proposed an aflociation like that which is
mentioned ; but it has been acceded to NO WHERE ■ nor has
there appeared the lead disposition tu accede to it, but the re
verse. Accordingly the business of diflillation is going on in all
the northern States, with a perfect /übmiffion to the law and
with as much fp.nt a, the quantity of materials will permit. Does
th!. true ftateof the fa 6 comport with the defection given 0 f i
by the committee ? ' Affectations are forming in the Northern
States to decline diftilltng altogether."
The account I now give you of'the matter is not fmmife or
conj.flure. It is the reluli of unquestionable information
If, then, there ~no appearance or profpeft of a general com
bination agatnft the law, how will the matter come before Con
grcft. The neceflitv for revenue will be as urgent as ever. There
will be as little poflibil.ty as ever of substituting another ta,
which will be equal to the purpose, and more agreeable to the
community. Ihe law therefore, as far as concerns the general
objefl on, mufl be adhered to ;or the public faith, the moll so
lemn obligations of the government contraSed under the old, and
formally iccogoife under the new constitution, the credit and
ESS
(cONTINfSD.j
with it the reputation and future fafety of the countrv must be
abandoned and tacnnced. What will be the choice of Congress
under such circumftauces ? What ought to be their choice ?
Your good ienfe will answer, an adherence to the duty; that
they may make some alterations in the iorm ; but that they mull
adhere to the lubftance of the law.
What, then, is the resource which remains ? M To prevent the
execution ot me law by rendering the acceptance or exercise of
» ri office under it odious." Let the probability of iuceels from
this expedient be aifo examined.
Is it probable, that the opinion of a very inconsiderable num
ber of pcifons, compared with the whole people of the United
States, can render odious, or infamous offices, which in all the
other parts of the union, die held and exercifcd by some ot" the
most refpedable citizen*, and with the eiteem and approbation
ot tiieir fellow-citizens ? Is it prooable that it will prevent those
who think the law a uecelfary and proper one, one the due exe
cution of which is materially conuecied with the welfare and cre
dit ot their country from obeying iheir sense of duty, and lend
ing their aid to the government of the nation.
It it Ihould have the effe£l proposed, upon those citizens who
reside withiu a particular dillntt, will it make the fame impres
sion throughout the United Slates ? Will there be no possibility of
bringing from any other quarter, perlons disposed to execute the
laws of the coantry in those places, where some local influence
obitrufls their opeiation ? Will the government of the union fuf
fer the execuiiou of us laws to be fruftrated in a particular quarter
by a combination to render its service odious, it it can find citi
zens ot the greateit Worth and eflimation elsewhere who have
more refpeft for that service? And will it not be juftifiible in
bringing from some other quarter, citizens to fill offices, which the
inhabitants ot the spot will not, or cannot accept or exercise ?
What, in fine can be at mod the issue of such attempts but to
exclude from serving those who would be mod agreeable to their
fellow citizens, to make way for persons of lei's refpeciability
among themselves, or toi those who are in some decree strangers
to them ? °
It is evident, then, that this expedient is not more likely to be
attended with fuccefsthan the former.
But perhaps there is something in reserve beyond w*hat is ex
prefled. The officers are not only to be dilTuaded by the influ
ence of public opinion ; but they arc to be deterred by the dread
of personal violence and outrage.
Moll eauieflly do I wish that no fact had yet happened to coun
tenance this supposition. But already has an officer, acting under
the law, experienced outrage to his person, and threats of worse,
if he attempts to execute his duty another time. The persons
were, indeed, indifguife; but the contempt of the law, the in
iult to the government and people of the United States, and the
injury to the officer were not the less on that account.
Cenfider well where this mud end.
In spite of disguises the persons concerned in such mtafuies
will be known. No degree of moderation in the government
will permit it to fee the authority of th<J laws so trampled upon,
without an effort to vindicate it. The efTemial interests of the
country, the veiy being of the government mud demand, that no
nce be taken of the fa&. A prosecution is the unavoidable con
fequtfnce.
This, then, bring* ihe matter to a crisis. Either the offenders
mult fuffer the penalties of ihe law, its authority be rtftored, and
oppouttonto it come to an cod, or the process of the coutis must
be reufted.
(to be continue©.)
War Department.
I January 2, J792.
"FORMATION is hereby given to all rhe military invalid*
ot the United Slates, that the funis to which they are intitled
for fix months ot their annual pension, tioin the 4th day of Sep
tember, 1791, and which will become due on the day of
March, 179*, will be paid on the said day by the Committioners
ot the Loans within the states refpcdively, under the ulual regu
lations, viz.
Every application for payment must be accompanied by the
following vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the (late, fpecifying that the per
son pout fifing the fame is in fa£ an invalid, and afceitaming the
lum to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Jufticesof the county of
in the Hate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to
whom the original certificate in his possession was given, of which
the following is a copy (the certificate given by the state to be re
cited) That he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the time he
was dilabled, and that he now resides in the and county of
andlias resided there lor the Uft years, previous to which he
resided in
In cafe an invalid (hould apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, be&desthe certificate and oath before recited, must
prod uce a lpecial letter of attorney agreeably to the following form -
I, A.B. of county of ikate of do hereby confli
tute and appoint C. D. of my lawlul attorney, to receive in my
benalf of my pension for fix months, as an invalid of the Uni
ted States, from the fourth day of September, one thoufdnd seven
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the tourth day of March, or,e
thousand seven hundred and ninttv-lwo.
Signed and sealed
in the prefcuce of
Witncfles.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminiftratorj must be accompa
nied w.th legal evidence of iheir rcfpca.ve offices, a „d also ol The
tune the invalids died, whose pension they may claim
By command of the President of the United State's,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
&T The Printers in the rcfpeaive fbtes are requested to publifli
Lneabove in their newfpwpers, for the fpjce of two months.
TTO BE SOLD,
HAT beautiful and elegant lituation on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the Cub
fcriber now res.de,; about 25 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvements, which area neat and commodious two story houf,
compleatyfinifhed from the cellar ,0 the garret, a kitchen, laun!
7k n ? ea ' _houfe ' dalr >-. two story barn, and ice house, all finifhed
in the best manner, together w,th several other neceflWv outhouses
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a fcillful ca.dner now em
»nd° P M lnS " ,1 ° rder; the land Wc " £ ncl°fcd with a
post and rail fence ; a well, and fprin., of excellent water-the
profpefl is equalled by few, and excelled by none in America
ns contiguity ,0 Alexandria, the Federal Town, and George-
Town, having a fine and full view of each place, must render .tin
few g««'value, being direQlj in a line of communica
tion from Alexandria to the other two towns. Should a purchaser
offer before the 15th of February next, a cheap bargain may be
v *, title, clear of all incumbrances, will be made
Wood J 1 W '" a,fo ldl w " h li ' ls P' -Ce » 220 Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 m.les distant, which w.il well to fuo
port the above in wood and timber. P "
December 14, 17Q1. (tf)
K&r* ; A,f °-
300
BALDWIN DADE
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. '-6, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OK
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be seen every day, until five o'clock t ?. m.
Among them are the jo//ou.tng :
Folio. T TOMER, Xrnoyhon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Soto-
X. 1 men, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
culus, Pliny, Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thetaurus Ci
ceronis. Bibiia Junit and Tremtllii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
vScapulie—Phavorini—Martinii—Hotfmani Lexica, Vofiii Etymo*
log'con, Antiquit. Ecclef. Britaunicas, See.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Benilev's Horace, Terence and
P.iitdrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, C'.ceronis op. om. Cxfar, Su
etoniu*, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ais Gram. Ciuvc
rii Geographic, Juftnu.tn Code, <kc .
Oflavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes,
Theopnraftus, Hefiod, Pocta; minores Gr. Ifocrates, Phalans, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Ciaudian, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan,
Salluit, Curtius, Flows, Jaftiti, Val. Maximum, A. Gcllius, Hill.
August. Scriptores, Englijh and French Travjlations of l'ome of the
Claflics, a great variety ot Greek, and Latin Grammars, <kc. &c.
{£3" Catalogue? may oe had ot Mcffis. Rice& Co. Booklellers,
Market-ilreet, or of JOHN CAREY.
Oftobergi. (ep tf.)
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C O M M I SS I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Sc reet, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and IiOKEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c.
Of ibe full quality—by retail,
No, 15^
Third-Street,between Chefuut and MarkctStreels.
A few TICKETS in 3d and lait Class 0/ the
NEW-JERSEY LOTTERY.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE jull now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
south ot Walnut-il; e-'t Wharf, adjoiuing their New Factory—
where thev have now made, and ready foi {ale, a general affort
mcnt ofSHOT of ali sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production ot the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Engliih workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to anv manufd&ured in Europe, ana at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They alio continue to manufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. Ail orders addreiled to either of the
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully received, aud executed ou tne
shortest notice.
N. B. Wanted, indubious, sober, Labounn# Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Mcffrs. Mosts Austin 6c Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
George Meade
Has for SALE, at his Stoieson Wa l nut-Streit Wh A*r,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old hills of exchange Madeira
WINE, which he will dispose of by the pipe, hogthead or
quarter caflt.
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of the firft quality, by the hogthead or
quarter calk.
Three and 4 years old Lisbon WINE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter calk, or larger
quantity.
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or larger
quantity.
A few quarter cherts of firft quality Hyson TEA.
He hasjull received by the Pigou, Loxley, matter, from London,
a few quarter calks of old Madeira WINE And
By the bn K Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few boxes
of In fa LINENS, low priced and well aflorted ; a few bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and fomc GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of the fiift quality, and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
He has also to dispose of, a quantitv of dressed White Oak
STAVES.
He means lo krep a constant supply of First Quality Madriia
and Lisbon WINES, and whoever is pleased to favor him with
their custom, may be allured of being well served.
He will, through ihe Winter and Spring, buy undrefled HAND
SPIKES. He is purchasing FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, auA
will give the highest price for them.
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER «nd
Taunion ALE, jufl received, and 10 be difpoled 01.
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of eveiydercriptio»,onCommiffiui,
Oat the following rates:
N the specie amount of all s a l es at auction, one ti'kth pe.
cent. ° 1
On ditto at private fnlc or purchase, one-hdf per cent
On remittances, ditto
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the lutcreU.
F<w making transfers at ditto,cents per transfer.
,k • a perr ° ns , 35 ma y indmc i» '"or the fubferiber with
u°V he ' r being executed with punSuakf,,
fidelity anddifpatch. Hu long experience and exteofive dealing
in the public stocks, together with a well established correfuoiJ
dence throughout the Lnued States, enable him to couduft his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
J 0"H N PINTARD,
Kern-York, No. 57, King-Street.
0 Sober 15, i7g
Axa nr cT° BE ,OLD Bv ™ E "iron,
Iln A ,ec ' ,vl "Js a nJ paving Gold a t the B*nk of the
Cm, t f!il n "if* 1 "* Ihc V>lue of Gold ,n Dollarj *" d
Aftjf so 1 >" C r3 * ou,,int * Pennyweights— according to ihc
Jl Con £ rc '». afcerta ( ,iing the Standaid and Value of Gold.
(ep 6w.)