\
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEPK ESDAY S AN*]> SATURDAYS BY JOHN F F.N NO, No. 69, HIGH-STRZF.PHILADELPHIA*
[No. 25. of Vol. IV.]
FROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE of the UNION.
Concerning the laws, which intrench vfen the rigijs
oj property.
IT is not remembered that the atts of the na-
have been deemed by any
ot tlie poflelTors of any defer iption of pro'nertv,
Unfavorable to their right?, cxccpt the pro
ceedings in regard to the public debt. It hno
less curious than true, that a part of t'.e com-!
munity affirm that the government have iniu
red the country by too much liberalitv, while
another part charge the legiflati-.re with im
pairing the contract.
In taking a view of this Ajbjeft, it should be I
remembered, that the state of things when it
was taken up, was in every refpeft critical and
uncertain. It was difficult to fay what the
country could perform, and more so to tell what
they would comply with. It was perceived
on the one hand, that as such a ftatc of public
credit as preceded the year 1789, would ruin a
government more energetic than that of the
United States, so its immediate melioration
was a matter of the mcft imperious neccflity.
On the other hand, the non-exiflence of one
imgiccjftcient funding fyftem,yielding a full/be
cie inhrej} y in any one State, and a number of
painful facts in the financial operations of some
o tne legislatures, created a conviction, that
there was either an inability or disinclination
in all to render a specie payment in the full ex
tent of the explicit contra<sh. Some of the eon
tracts were found not to be explicit, containing
piomi.es of large sums under the name of spe
cie, which it could not have been the expecta
tion of the government at their date to dis
charge, or of the creditor to receive, in coin ;
because they promi/ed to pay as specie, what
was notoriouily much less valuable than con
ti adli previouflv liquidated at forty nomina
c»ollars for one in coin. The peculiar claims
of the original creditors also were flrongly re
pre fen ted, while the conduct of every State ir
t ie union, in its particular finances, bad dif
countenanced a difcriminat'on in their favor ;
and the eflablifhed Jaws of property were urgec
agaipft a reduction of the owners principal
quclHons were also raised about the original in
tiinfic value of the money and property receiv
ed by the United States, leading to the
f depreciation. By infufing in
to the proportions for a fettleme.nt of the debt
0 r reduSion of the interejl and a tem
P or "\" r 'd:emabiht\of the principal, which liavs
colt the debtor nothing, and the creditor ver
> "y Vigorous and well devised efforts t!
recover credit at home and abroad, an arrange
ment was formed, and executed, which ha
given better payment to the creditor tha:
could reasonably have been hoped. It is plaii
to every observer, that, but for the indii'cre
tions of some of the public creditors, who fu
pel-added to the trials and fluChi.-.tion&of a con
valefcent Hate of credit, the late unparalltlei
difficulties of the holders of the flock, the tlire.
species of t:;e public paper, taken at a medu;ni
would have been worth the nomina! value in th
111 ark et. Hitherto it never has b*en.
There yet remain, however, i n the United
States forae law; which affect the rights of pro
perty. The operation of inftalinent and valua
tion laws is not terminated in two or three of
tie State - .. In two or three others, paper mo
ney is a tender in all or in particular cases. In
some quarters, real estate is protected from ex
ecution for debt; and in others, the judgments
ot the courts are suspended, if the income of
theejlate bears a certain proportion to the ere
tlitoi ,s demands. In some of the Stages pre
ferences are given to the claims of citizens, be
fore those ol citizens of the other States, or of
foreignersand a variety of ill exists in many
quarters, in the form of infolventi laws. The
federal constitution, and those oi several of
the State', have barred the introduction of tbele
evils in regard to new tranfaftions; and the
States which are not chargeable with them, in
regard to past affairs, have reaped, in the last
three years, an ample reward for their wis
dom and virtue. Property may almost be called
the palladium of communities Tiieir moral fafety
at least is always at hazard, when that is un
warrantably invaded. In every cafe wherein
culties to obtain his own are interpoied in
the way of the honest and industrious citizen,
nis loft is not all the public injury. A fellow
citizen—perhaps a member of a legislature (and
through him a legislature itfelf) is corrupted in
nis principles.
. tie pullic Mtt.
when it is remembered, that the term? up
on which the debts of the State? were affumcd
.?S r are Hot more favorable than ihdfe
en *indi the federal debt was funded, and when
it is called to mind, that the unaflumed debts
<tt au the States are left valuable in the market
toau thole which were affbmed, it will appear,
that the public creditors of the union have little
reafpn to complain. When the advantages of
the temporary imedeemabilitv, and of the op
portunity of investment in the bank are recol
j6 reafon > if ai >y ccift.ed, appears
to be dtifipatcd. Oa the other hand, when it is
remembered, that long after the promulgation
ot the funding fvftem and of the bank, the pof-
Jeilors of specie might have procured certifi-
T*** "
I C.'ites upon ver» ;;-r C >i-:
United States draw a filch of the profits of* the
bank without fyrniJUirig any of the capital, tliat
tfce grant of irfedeemubittty is temporary, and
To perfectly nominal, that we now have a right
to pay ofl more than we have money to d li
tharge ; when it is aifo borne in mind, that the
terms given by Congress to the public creditors,
| were exceeded (by law at leaf!) in ft vc vat of the
| States, and that two of them have added to the
benefits of their citizens front the funding fy>-
tem, without di 11 imipating. in favor of the o
riginal creditor, or agairift'the present holder,
the a, t of the general government ap
pears to be confident with the publio intereib
and with the wijilem ojthe State It'ijlaturcs. If the
funding system ofCongrels has been thus equal
ly j uiUnd beneficial with those of the. States, it
has beep accompanied with many advantages
which cannot be questioned. Public, credit*is
restored—in consequence of that, the contracts
tor all public supplies are made for caih on the
deliveries or performance— the money, thus
early promised, is paid by anticipation on the
proffer of indubitable security by the various
contra&ors; apd interelt in favor of the Uni
ted States has been allowed for the promptitude
of her trcafury—half a million of dollars of fpe-'
cie claims have been lifcharged ; and purchases)
of the public debt, which bring tlieextingnifhed
lum to about 2,400,000 dollars have been made,
or provided jor—a series of payments f.uce the
month of September (required by the most dif
tlllguiflied ally ot the United States, in the late
war) 1. ve been made to serve the occaflons ct
their unhappy colcnift*. Loans upon five per
cent, upon four and a half per cent, and upon
tour per cent, interest, have been effected in
two opulent lcenes in Europe, solely by mean s
ot our restored credit, to repay, in the hour of
need, to that ally, the monies lent to the United
States in a like leafon. All that is due hr.,been
paid, part of that which is not yet due has been
anticipated. Monies anxiouiiy desired bv
France, have been discharged by means of loans
at a lower intereil. Both nations are benefited
and pleased ; but our country is honored bv the
tranfaiHon. To have reglefted our public
credit, would have been to lose thcle advar,-
tajes,
son THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITE!) STATES
IT IS very proper for a private man to nly on
his known purity of enmiuft and principles,
and to fit in tecuiiiy and lilcuce, while the little
scandals invented by tfie base, lurmfh amiifement
to the crcdulous. It would not suit the 'clearili
nefs and dignity of virtue to discompose itfelf by
lagging >he fqualtd imps ot calumny from thd
cells whete tjiey retire to htcw their poisons and
to limn the hatrful .lay-light The individual
ner sons concerut d in the government of the United
States, cannot suppose themfelvrs injured, n"r
• veti ft) much as aimed at. by the authors of the
impudent fmirilny which has be. n poured out
since the Ueg'nning of the prcfent year. It hjs
been a.flcrttd, that a plan of the influential men in
the government to introduce monarchy and a
despotism. anil an atiftocracy, is not only formed
but almost effected—and that the conipiraiors arc
corrupt speculators, and breakers ol public trust.
Congress, as well as "the executive pan of the go
vernment, under the name of the court and the
court party, (land charged with this crime as
mean, as qtrocioiis. The acrufers iUvme no small
merit to ihpmfclvcs for Ijaving founded the alarm.
They call tnemfe.ves by a number of praise-wor
thy titles—watchmcn'fOr llie people—friends of
liberty—old republicans, See. But is there a me
rit in fallhood, is there virtue in indwlgip" the
mofl malignant paflions ? Yet this, in truth, is the
praise to which the writers lay claim.
It is not easy to conceive of any men out of
Bedlam having lormcd schemes so inconfiflent
with each other as they have pretended to divulge.
A funding fyflcm and a monied influence, suppose
flable laws, and a firm and inviolable protcftion
•o property. Yet such men as those who draw
their income from the source of the public faith,
a-e reprcfcntcd as wilhing to change the ftatc of
tbings, and to be a: work to throw every thing
into eonfufion, and to put their all at rifle : for
what ?—for a despotism, fav the sagacious writers
againll government. A despotism to the
public debt. A wife plot truly. Those who arc
fafe under equal and facrcd laws, are plotting to
be falerundera despotism, which would tramole
on all laws. The writers aliuded to mnfl enter
tain vafl refpefl for the fcnCe of a people, to whom
their mode of finding fault is fuppofrd to be ac
ceptable. And the ariflocrats too ar*- said to he
in a box with thr monarchy men. Many a party,
writer has hurt hiscanfe by taking mankind for
greater fools than they really are.
To many friends of good order, [he inconsist
ency of the charges a».rinft government has ap.
peared fufficirnt to prevent their mifchief. They
hare fsid, the decerning will fee the fallacy
their arguments ; and of the nnthinkino, one half
will be lhocked by the maligniiv'and violence o!
thcfc writer; and the oi.her half will not read
their pieces. Theyargnea free government ii ot
conference pure. Such arc its pi inciples. it will
purify iifelf—ftir wrong, done or intend
ed to be done, would deltrojr the confidence a!
the people in those who administer the great ofli
ces,?nd that would produce "the ot officers.
Such a government, it would Perm', might dcfp'fe
llif C»ndet» of ill enemies. For the people, nn-
Saturday, August i 8, 1792.
term-
(to be continued.)
89
thp'
lets extremely ignorant of ih<-'r po"—v<e, will not
be cxcited to infurr&Hon and oppok'.ion to the
law* by incendiaries, who insult the people, by
reilmg tlwni that the government which they have
made and uphold, and which rhrv arV frequently
deputing their molt able and approved men to
admmilter, is a tyranny—that the people are
crufhed by an iron yoke —the few are lording it
over the many—and many other aflertions, which!
are affronting to the pride of an American, con-j
fciotis of freedom.
It well becomes the dignity and purity of a re
publican government to rely on these grounds.of
security. Put tho' a good citizen mipht scorn to
noticc many llanders which afteft himfelf merely.
it becomes him to consider whether the calumnies
on the government do not threatenthe public tran
quility—wheiher the constitution, which Europe
considers as their model and our glory, which is the
purchase of this age and we hope tfie inheritance
of the next, may not be brought into danger by
the arts of its enemies. Some ptrfo/is. (they are
were made angry by its adoption—they are
enraged by us success. While the friends of the
Union fit famfied wish the operations of the go
vernment, and the people thrive under its proiec- j
or. the implacable toes of the coailitution, arid
f all order,""are Imfy—they meet no bp bo Qr ion
xcept from ftupbor n fa£ts—while they tell the
ation we .-re r'.ined .md enfUved, and plundered
'V lo'ds and maite'?, the general liberty and prof
■erity confound them. The friends of govern,
ncnt pay no regard to their viru'ent attack . Thi
orbe?rance has been carried too The "writer
gainst governmentdeferVe no very great regan
or the candor or force of th:it accufatioiii ; fin'giv
hey might be defpjfed. But wh<n they gatne
nto a rabble—when thevjoin discipline to ia re
i-hen we fee them in phalanx, evidently gtudci
y one leader, and, h. v.cver they may vary thci
uovement.% agree ; ng to knock down all that i
rested, and to raft- the works of the new govern
nent to the foundation, and even to tel
is that that is nri found, and nt only to support
ottcn monarchy—when we fee so much fvftew
nduftry and pcrfeverauce in traducing govern
nent, fyrely it is lime to look about us. and to tak
are that the commonwealth sustain no
The league against la w and order seems to hav
aro\ided ltfelf with every weapon of offence. /
Jtefs is set up and supported, no matter by wha
ncans, for the manifelk pur pose of add retting th
paflions of the people, and exciting abhorrenc,
'gainst the laws of the land. The approving man
icr jik which the insult to an excise wfficcr is no
iced, dilalofes the designs of the junto—of whicl
ndfrd they have furnifbed many other proofs.
vVnen the people know the manner in whicl
hefe men vilify their free government and eqna
aws, they will be on their guard against rhH
ifpcrfions. All that can be done is to give warn
ng of the meditated mifchief. You cannot rea
[on against rage. They tell of bad defwns and o
utnre dangers. You can n r her lay open th.
uman heart nor fu'urity. Surely the people wil
"ot, knowingly; concur in the projtdls of m, i
who dare to tell them they aie (laves—that ih.
government is not in their hands—that they ar
:he property of lords and mn!l< rs. We natural!*
:riump!i in the revolution of France- —nut that ho
its enemies and opprtfers within and without th
kingdom. Do the F r ench esteem those the be 1
friends of liberty who vilify the:r constitution
who foment hatred and contempt of the Nation?
Alfembty, apd opoofuion to the laws. Yet rh
writers against our free government a fire & io b
friends of liberty, law and order. They hav
t he audacity to cant about rcpohliranilm— whi!
they recommend combinations and com mtte;-
to rc Git the iaws enacted by the people thrcu
iheir reprefentative^.
So prosperous is the country, thai the attrmnt
to vmdicaie the admini(lratidi), and to unniafk the
cnnfpiiators againfl law and liberty, freiris ftrangr
to many, and fupetfltjous to oiheis. 1 hey do not
generally know that in the silence and repose of
our affair#, the enemies of liberty, under a pre
tence of zeal for it, are scattering ihe feeds of mif
rluef—they are undermining the temple ot free
dom— tliry arc appealing to the passions todcUioy
the work of our tober reason.
People of America, I lie freed and the tnoft wor
tuv to on the face of <*he earth— tht moll
iofu'rctl too by those who d,ire to despise your
conllituiinn, which has given you a name, and an
exalted one among the nations—beware of falfc
friends, who cry liberty, but mean to oppose 'the
.law*, and to put liberty at rilk. Be ftcady and
c-ilm, nnd remember that when these men have
■raifrd yoilr'palfions as they wifti to do, you will
be in a condition to be chcated our of your privi-
IC(JCS.
FRQM THE VIRGINIA GAZETTE.
T THINK it my duty to inform the
community, that early in the en
siling session ofAflembly, 1 lhall make
a motion to recommend to the citi
zens of this Commonwealth, thara
convention be called, for the purpos
es of eftabliihing a fvrtem of govern
ment more congenial to republican
principles than that by which we are
now governed.
A "long many objects which ought
to lie contemplated, this nieafure is
Principally ditflated by the opinion,
that equality and liberal/i'ity of re
pi'ffematioir, are the fundamental
pillars <,f iiijerty—t;,at i lie right to
be re pre (cured, is t lie natural and un
alienable privilege of every citizen
who duly contributes to the fupporc
of government—and that the conllj
1111ion of this Hate, if we have one at
all, is very repugnant to both.
Two objections will be advanced
firft, the expence of the coi.»«nt!on—
secondly, the danger of relaxing the
sinews of government : To which I
obfervp, that the expeitee will bear
no comparison to the inestimable ad
vantages of a free and equally repre
sented government ; and that no mail
of common underflanding, or know
ledge of the tempers and wishes of
our citizens, can be seriously appne
henfive, that they from whom the
government springs, by whom it is
supported, and to whom it belongs,
will, in the necefliry exercise of the
natural and imptefcriptable privileg
es, fedii ioufly attempt to do any thing,
the evil of which will ultimately de
volve on themselves.
No government can long be free
except one by reprefenratioii, and e
very Itep which a government falls
fbort of equality, it recedes from H-
f >e, rry-—Neither this, nor the present
inequality of leprefeiitation, can be
denied.
it will be said, that the necefilty of
: this change, does not now exilt, be
cause Congrcfs liave muter their con
' troul, rs 11 the great objects of legisla
tion. To this it may be anfweved,
that Congress have eltabiiflied an ex
cife,odious even in monarchical coun
tries— they have imposed duties too
enormous for a free people to bear
they have ertablifhed an army, when
there is not the profpe<st of an enemv
againfl whom the army is to operate
—they have reftricied the free circu
lation of newspapers, by a measure
unprecedented, and extremely obnox
ious—and if we are to conclude, in
future, from the pad, 1 fear that we
shall be led on to experience theJa
vorit: and dia6olical maxim, that the
exigencies of government fliouid be
always equal to her resources. If so,
and this principle shall be the basis
of federal lepflation, we may expec'i
that armies and navits will incieafe
upon ns, as fall as we have the ability
to pay their expences—rior will it be
material whether we pay iol. per an
num, by purchasing rum at jf6 in-
Itead of 4/"6 per gallon—nails at 12s
instead of ios per JVI. or pay the mo
ney directly to the colletSor or cx
• cifeman.
Taxes throughout the world beget
■ a - ri ".'s? —an'd armies re-produce taxes.
Armies,wharevertlie pretext for raid
ing them, have either been thediretft
oppressors, or tools of oppreflive jyoW;.
er, in every age and clime : And al
though I do not fear that the present
American army, for many of tfhotnl
have a high personal refpedl, can be
thus used, because of their own fetr
tiinents, I fear for future times : I
dislike the principle—l dislike the ex
pence 1 know that a regular army
is not calculated for an Indian war
that we have not another ofFenfive e
nemy if we feck one—and that one
fourth, or less than a fourth, of the
present military expence, would keep
peace with our savage neighbours.
Such sentiments, under such cir
cumltances, induce me tb'thiiik thar
we ought not to delay the internal
regulations of our government.
A
George-Town.
A Numberof LO 1S in everv firuation which
i. may he rVfirecl in City of Washington
will be offered lor fair bv the Commissioners, on
Monday the gih day of Oflober next. One fourth
part of ihe money to be paid down, the residue in
three equal annual payments, with yearly interest
on the whole princioal unpaid.
June 2, 179?
[Whole No. 545.]
HKNRY BANKS,
JOH\ T M'GANTT, Clerk
to she Commilßoners.
[ep'QLONDON, May 30—June 9
THE revolution in Poland, f'o tem
perate, fair, and wile, i'carcely
provokes iih'e ceiifure of Mr. Burke.
Had tlie French nobility dil played
the temper of the Princcs of Poland,
all would have been yyei.l with them
at this dayj which {hews..that ht|r
man, as well as physical nature obum
perando vincttur. In trance, the no
blefl'e conlidered every other cla<s of
citizens as of an inferior Ipecies ; and
lience the emancipation ot that nati
on from servitude involved in it the
annihilation of that order in the ttate,
which had been the hereditary op
pretfors of mankind for generations.
In Poland the nobility, by the de
reliction of usurping pre-eminence,
l,ave ingratiated themlelves with the
people " and lh3 new constitution of
Poland Teems to be erected on the
molt solid foundation. They will
liow be in fke situation ofthe Knglifh
nobility, of whom one of tiie molt in
genious, and pi obably the molt learn
ed man in England, (ays, in his pub
lication, " By the law of the Hate,
nobles are protected as onr equals,
and by the law of opinion they would
cease to be our superiors.is they would
ever presume to violate the
ed rules of civilized life."
Monday being the birth-clay of Mr.
Pitt, who completed the 53 d year of
his age. Mr. Dundas gave a grand
dinner to the Minister, with a party
of his friends, at his house in Somer
set-place, on the occasion.
Five more of the conspirators against
the late King of Sweden have receiv
ed judgment, viz. Horn'and Ribbing
are to have their light hands cut off,
and to be beheaded. Hartmanfdorff,
Liljehorn, and Von Engeftrom, to be
beheaded. Major General Peclilin,
who is generally imagined to have
been the foul of the plot, has taken
his measures with so much caution,
that the Connfel for the prosecution
has not hitherto been able to adduce
legal evidence against him fufficient
to convidt him. He is seventy five
years old, during the greatest part of
which time he has been concerned in
every scheme of revolution, of which
the Swedith lliftory produces so many
instances.
The French have stationed between
Beachy Head and Dunkirk two fri
gates and an armed brigantine, in
tended to intercept fouie Imperial
Eaft-Indiaman now on the point of
failing from Oftend. These veflels
captured, on Wednesday morning, a
dogger, bearing Dutch colours, and
said to be equipped by the Dutch East
India company at Middleburgh. The
officers and crew were, however,
chiefly Flemish; the lading was found
to have come from Oftend ; and the
Captain of the little French squadron
fufpedting imposition, sent one of his
frigates with thevefTel into Dunkirk,
where they are now arrived. The
name ef the dogger is the Triton,
Conraed Cornelifs, master.
William Peckover, a native of Pon
tefract, and now gunner of his Ka
jelly's (hip Tremendous, is the only
person living who has failed four
times round the world. He was gun
ner of the Bounty at the time of the
mutiny, and one of the honest fellows
who chose to lhare the fate of Capt.
Bligh.
Extra ft of a letter fromCoblcntz, May i o.
" M. Duminique, minister of Itate
to the Elector of Treves, on the 3d
instant, presented a declaration to
the French Princes, expressing the
surprise of the Elector, that the emi
grants fliouldftill cominuctoallemble
at Treves, and thereby render him
liable to be suspected by the court of
France, to whom he wished to avoid;
giving umbrage. That he had in
consequence given orders for all the
French emigrants to quit Treves, the
towus of Wittleick and Phlazel, and
all the villages adjoining thereto, by
the Bth of May ; and 1 the
French Princes to second his inten
tions. The Elector, he fays, is de
termined to have them out ; but, the
emigrants may, however, if they can
riot find another asylum, aflemhle in
the lower Archbifhoprick beyond the
Rhine, as they would then give 110
umbrage.
" This refohition M. Dominique lias
communicated to the French Charge
4'Affaires."
The Frerrk army is alTeinhling in
great force about Mons, with a view
io make a grand attack.
The high price of copper is I'uch
that it is ieaied, unleis mcnlures ar<
taken to reduce it, the manutac'toi it
at Birmingham and other places
where that article is so necellary, \> ill
be at a Stand. It is propoled to bring
(he matter before Parliament, loi
tfieir confederation, early in the next
fefliou.
A very singular circomftaiice oc
curred at Kilryg, in Caniiganlhire,
during the sale ofthe propertj of the
late Mils Lioyd, whole murder was
mentioned in a former paper.—A
gentleman of the neighbourhood be
came the purchaser of a chelt for 20s.
when led by curiosity to examine his
bargain, he perceived that it had two
drawers, behind one of which was se
creted a japanned cup, containing
500 guineas, and a purse with eigli
reen guineas and "two crown piecee.
The gentleman, much to his honour,
returned t he property, undiminilhed,
to the administrator ; and could not
even be pievailed upon to accept the
purchase money of the chell, as a tri
bute to his inflexible integrity.
Sunday Schools.—Three hun
dred thousand poor children are now
under tuition in the Sunday schools
of this kingdom This, if any thing
can, will eventually bting about a re
formation.
Extract from Lord Bucan's " Life of
Thomson," p. 215
" It is glorious for Thomlon's me
mory, that he (hould have described
the platform of a perfeift government
as Milton described the platform of a
perfect garden. Eighteen years after
Thornton's death, the late Lord Chat
ham agreed with me in making this
remark; and whenlfaid, " But, Sir,
" what will become of poor England,
" that doats on the imperfections of
" her pretended Conltirmion ?" He
replied, " My dear Lord, the gout
" will dil'pofe of me soon enough to
" prevent me from feeling the confe
" qtiences of this infatuation : but
" before the end of this century, ei
" therihe Parliament will reform it
" felf from within, or be reformed
"with a vengeance from withoiu."
Y ORK, May 28
By a letter from Mr. Edward Bowl
ing, of this city, a Mailer's Mate of
the late Pandora frigate,to his friends
here, dated Batavia, Dec. 8, we have
the pleasing intelligence, that 108 of
the crew of that unfortunate ship
were, after having encountered intut
merable difficulties, fafe and in good
health at that place, waiting for th?
failing of the Dutch East- India (hips
for Europe. The crew of the Pan
dora, at the time flie was loft, confift
cd of 150 men.
HAL I F A X, A uguft 8
We hear from Hilllborough, Norths
Carolina, that the Governor, by the
advice of the Council, has called a
meeting of the Legislature of thiji;
(late ac Newbern, at an eai lief day
than that prescribed by for tbe
purpose of chooftng Electors of a Pre
lident ir Vice-Pt efident of the United
States, &c.
GEORGE-TOWN, (M.) Aug. 8
On Saturday the 4th inft. the Cor
ner-Stone,on the vveltern abutment of
the Federal Bridge, (being the se
cond corner stone of the fame), Was
laid in due form,by Uriah Forrest,
hfq. Mayor of this town, in presence
of the Aldermen, the Recorder and
Common-Council men, attended by a
numerous concourse of refpe( r table
inhabitants of this place, who aflbm
blcd on the occasion.—Aster the ce
lemony wa? over, the company re
turned to Mr. Suter's Fountain-Inn,
where ahandfome entertainment was
give,, by the Mayor, to the workmen
and others, concerned in erec f tin e the
Bridge. s
A cor'refpondent observes, that ir
mult afford general fatisfatfion to e
very wdl-w.fherofthe profperievof
t .eCi.v of WASHINGTON, t ( >' be
allured that the public works, „„w
carrying in this place, are (on
ducted with spirit and entprprife and
at the lame time, with that due record
to economy, which is so abfohlelv
neceffarv , n all extensive public nn
dertakings, where a country is but
90
in.its infancy.—The "ederal Bridge,
which will exceed, wlcn finifhed, lor
elegance and strength, any tiling of
he kind heretofore attempted in this
country, Will be completed in a few
, weeks—and it is confidently expect
ed, that againil the day in Otftober
next, which is advertised for the (ale
of Lots in the city, the Supeiinten
darit of the Prelident's house will
have all matters in readinels, for lay
iiig the corner (tone of the fame (the
third in the Federal City) which will
afford the gentlemen concerned in
the fuperintendance of the federal
,tsi)i]dings, and those who are propri
etors of lands in the city, an oppor
tunity of displaying their tattein the
brilliancy of a third proceflion, and
of exhibiting their liberality, in an
entertainment suitable to the cccafi
on—which may he a further induce
nient to purchasers ; and thereby be
nefit themselves as well as contribute
to the honor and future prosperity of
the City of Walliington.
B O S T ON, Augoft 9
j Capt. Hopkins, who arrived here
on Sunday the Jth infl. from Russia,
j informs—That at the date of his fail?
! ing therefrom, he could not learn that
■any warlike preparations were mak
ling in the Ruffian empit e : That there
jhad been many reports of attempts to
poison the Empress—one of which, it
was said, had been diliovered to be
made by several Kren/inien ; —That
in consequence, an order ot Hate had
been iflued, for apprehending the
confpirarors (ten of whom had been
taken) — and for pnnifhing with death
every Frenchman who remained
within the empire nfter a certain
time—and, that Capt. Hopkins bro't
away therefrom three French gen
tlemen.
One fail will outweigh in the pub
lic opinion a thousand declamations,
jit is aliened, but with a colouring
that renders the afTeitibn at leaftful
picious, that " all who have become
rich in the United States, for several
late years, are Speculators ; and that
to raise these harpies to wealth and
eminence, the indultrious Merchant
has been opprefled with the molt
grievous burdens—burdens which
mult operate his ruin." This is af
ferriofi without proof. For a /hort
lime, it mult be allowed, owing to the
madness, or something worse, of a
few desperate individuals, Speculation
ali'nmed a glare, that aftomlhed, and
in many inltances, captivated, the be
holder.
Ac length, however, like the linka
ble glitter of a meteor, it diflipated,
and so far were its votaries from hav
ing acquired " immenle fortunes"
thereby—that it left them—in prison,
in poverty, or in exile.—On the other
hand, in all the bankruptcies of the
lalt year, not one in the mercantile
line is to be traced ; and from the
great increase of the fliipping—the
advancement of commercial and ma
nufatfiural business-institutions—and
every mechanical business—and from
the general happiness which pervades
every part of the Union, we may ven
ture to aflert, nor fear a contradic
tion, that .success has abundamly
crowned every effort of commercial
enterprise and indultry—and that our
Merchants universally are feeinggood
days according to the days wherein
they have seen evil. And well do the
Merchants deserve this prosperity,
and an increase of it. Their patri
otism has been immortalized by our
beloved President—and they mull: en
joy thepleafing fatisfac'tion, that they
have been greatly inftrumenta! in ad
vancing their country to a height of
prosperity, reputation, and felicity,
unexampled in her annals.
That ihefe are FACTS is visible to
every man who wifties to fee them so.
And they (hall be told to the world,
as long as they continue to be such.
N E W-Y O R K, Aug. 14.
On Monday evening a Weltchefter
pettyaug? e on her return home up let
near the (hip-yards with two men and
two women paflengers on board.—
The men caught hold of the vessel,
and got upon her bottom, but the
women were in the cabin under wa
ter- Several boats went to their af
filtance,and cut a hole in the bottom
of the vellel, by which the lives of
the two women were saved, who were
found clasped in each others arms.
fROM THE NATIONAL GAZETTE
I Mr. Freneau,
BEING a reader of the Cazttti eftl,it ,
States, which I boirow of a nei-.lho.ir "'I a
much ha, been said therein refpecW a 'fal»
of two hundred and fifty dollars a vefrJ?*" 7
rc.ve for translating for the department of Stat'"
T. his cierkflup , s there deemed by a writ. >
calk himfelf An America,, to be incomnatiht
with your fiation as conductor of - newL-'
Of this incompatibility let the proper authority
determine. ItmaybeweH enough We ™*
and certainly not unfair, to retort 0,1 this occ '
fion. lam informed that the printer of the
Mr Ze ioSn°F " mted St:iteS ' the •• n >«"l»tt
Mr. John Flnno, i", printer to the Senate of trie
Uuueii States the emoluments of which office
are very considerable, as can be made ,ppe£
from a calculation on the sums annually paid for
his fervires a-, printer. lam further informed
that the lame Mr. John Fenno enjoys exclusive
ly the printing for the treasury department,
where it seems he has rendered himfelf a parti'
cu/ar favourite. He has alio of late, it is said
made his approaches to another public oii.ee in
Chefnut-ftreet, and is in a fair way of bein-r
soon, il not already, in foil possession of the bu
siness thereuuto appertaining.
From all which the naturai inference is, that
tvothoujmd or twenty-five hundred dollars a
year, cannot othenvi e than have some fort of
influence on the Editor of the Gazette of the
United States, especially when his avaricious
principles are brought into view. They who
are ikilful at tracing cause and esseS, will be at
no lofj in this matter. By comparing cirenm
ilances and nicely balancing the quia pro rtio
wonders will be brought to" light that'no man
would have dreamt of. I mfift on it, my re-,
foiling is fair : if two hundred and fifty dollars
a year vtuft neeefTarily be influential on one hand
ten times that sum mjift undoubtedly have a
tenfold inlluer.ee on ihs other. Ti;e prtutipTes
o{ Mr. John Feuno, and his fetters-on, are pret
ty well known—but.for the benefitof the United
States at large, they will be better known in a
Ihort time by a pamphlet of extracts from his
former files.* , (;
FOR THE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
The Editor of the National Gazette receives
a salary from that government, which for
nine months past the writers in his paper have
been laboring to render odious to the people —
To abate the force of this charge, with
coofiftency your readers will determine for
themselves, the National Gazette of Wednes
day informs the public, that u IMr. John Fenno
enjoys exclusively the printing for theTreafury
Department."—From the best authority I am
informed, that this alTertion is entirely un
founded it is not a fatt, at the present mo
ment, nor has it been so since the firft inftitji
tion of the Department, that any individual has
iiad the printing business thereof, exclusively.
Four or five different printer?, hcaa ami
now are employed to perform the printing ne
ce.Tary to be done for the Treafury.—Anjpflg
these are Mr. Aitkin, MefTrs. Childs and Swaine,
Mr. Bailey, Mr. Fenno, &c—Three or four of
them, if not the whole number, retain the exe
cution of thole parts of the treajury printing to
this day f which they were at firft employed to
do. One coufiderable branch of this treajury
printing is performed in the oTice of Mellrs.
jChilds and Swaine, where Mr. Frencau's Nati
onal Gazette is printed.——ln addition to this
the Printers of the National Gazette, are Prin
ter? to the House of Rep-efentatives of the
United States,are Printers for the Government,
of the laws of the Union, by Authority, in vo
lumes, —and for the state of New-York in the
Daily Advertiser —they are alio Printers for the
Department of State. All tiiis work, tne
Daily Advertiser excepted, is executed in the
Office in which Mr. Frcmau's National Gazette
is printed.
The Printers before named, with several
others applied to the Government for employ
ment in the line ef their profeffion—thofe which
obtained a preference, have rendered Isrvica
to the public-—have been paid as other media
nics employed by the public Jiave been paid—
and asfuch are totally di conne&ed with the
government. ,
Surely then, the administration cannot be
charged withexclufively encouragingtho.e pre -
fes that have approbated its meafnres w,,en a
press that teems inceifantly with ekufe of tbofe
measures, enjoys by far the proportion
of the printing business executed
ment.
* If the above writer intend' a candid and
impartial Compilation, and will call on t.c
Editor of the Gazette of the United State ,
will afTft him in his benevolent undertaking,
having, for so me time pal had it in conten
Hon to publish an AWtraft from the GasrtW ,
the eflays, paragraphs and detached o .
tioris which it contains.
Far the GAZETTE of tht UNITED STATU.
To THt AMERICAN. ,
B-IW, in pof&flion oftwofafts
a nature to throw full light upon rte »
ieot you have brought into public view ' e
it due to truth and to the community,
vou acquainted with them in t. e on y
which situation permits.—One is, tha
tor of the National Gazette has hed a
larv, a, Clerk m the Department »"£
the" 17th August I 79 I »
half prior to the Commencement ol P
and prior to the Commencement ofh«
deuce in tills city. .
The Other, that Mr. Taylor, who long «
v,a,, and fti!l h < U,rl i. >1^
an intelliaent and ian gU a K e,--
Tranilator.for the gazette of the united states.
THE charges which have keen brought a
gainst " the Editor of the National
Gazette," as he himfelf ltates them to be, arc
no otherwise personal charges, than as they de
fignate the pcrfoni, against whom they are made.
In their application to Mr. Freneau, t'ley af
i'ei't him solely in his capacity of Editor of a
public paper (which may juftlv be considered as
a public capacity) and in relation toinatters of
public or national concern. It is therefore a
nicer fubterfuge to call tkem ptrfonal charges,
and then to fay, that they full not be anlwered,
tinlefs the author of them will come for-.vard to
fapport them. It was eaiily anticipated that
he might have good reasons for not discovering
himfelf, at Jeaft at the call of Mr.Freneau—and
it was necefl'rtry for him to find a (belter. \v r iiat
else could he do ! The charges brought against
him are substantiated by f-.is, some ot them ac
knowledged by himfelf, others proved l>v a re
ference to public documents, and to his own
paper ; others of general notoriety.
The inferences from theJe fa s are tiie only
things, which remain for difcutlion ; and tfcefe
so naturally flow from the premises, that t'.ey
defy the arts of fophiftrv to obfenre them. The
expedient however which has been adopted,
comes rather late ; confuiering that Mr. Kre
neau began to answer even under the folenin:-
ties of an oath.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Mr. Fenno,
IT has been clearly proved (fays the National
Gazette) that the Poll-Office was not sacred
in the years 1787 and 1788. The lame junto,
or persons of the fame itamp, who are now so
busily employed to fubvcrt the government of
this country, made the above assertion while
the Conftrtution was under ditcuiiion—but did
they ever prove it?—No—Let the names of the
guilty be exposed—or, if not, let the fabricators
of such fa I ill hoods beheld in just abhorrence—
for these arc the persons who would have pre
vented, if poflible, the union of the states, and
tlie adoption of any system of general govern-
ment whatever.
Exttafl from <s circular address of a number of the ci
tizens of Philadelphia to t/\e citizens oj Pennfl-
vania,
Friends and fellow-citizens,
<e THHE great blessings enjoyed by the ii.habit-
JL ants of the United States, under the pre
sent constitution, mull excite a wilh in the bo
som of every good citizen, to promote such
measures as are 1110 ft likely to render thole blef
fmgs permanent. That this cannot be obtain
ed without a wife and virtuous representation
in Congress, and without a constant fuccefiion
of such public characters as have nothing in
view but tiie welfare of their country, must be
evident to every American. To effett this
wife and'vi: !:non-: fucceUion of representatives
and rulers, so far as the voice and fuTrages of
Pennsylvania are entitled to extend, has attract
ed the attention of many of the citizens of
Pennsylvania.—Considering the importance of
t'le ensuing election, where thirteen members
are to be chosen in one it becomes a
question of interesting discussion, to determine
011 the best mode of uniting the sentiments of
the citizens, throughout the State, on this great
business. To leave every part of tne State to
farm an independent ticket, without consulting
their fellow-citizens, would be to riik an ap
pointment, by even a very finall minority. For
although the fuffrages in favor of one ticket
might be fnperior, in number, to any other, yet
that superiority might be composed of less than
a tenth," 01* twentieth part of the voters. Ne
ccflity tnen calls for a free communication of
sentiments previous to the election. How this
can bcft be efFected must be left to the different
parts of the State to determine."
EXTRACT.
" AS almost every material expended in car
rying on manufactures arises from the earth,
the consumption must benefit the agricultural
interest of the country, not only in fumilhing a
market for our raw materials, and saving mo
ney to the country, but by the number of hands
that will be employed in carrying on the dlifer
ent manufarttires they may engage in; ourhome
confumption will be encreafed, by its being ex
pended by the manufacturers, who do not raise
their own bread ; by which means we fliall not
entirely be left to precarious foreign markets,
which probably will become lefs,from that spirit
of liberty, which appears to be extending over
the greatefl part of Europe. For as pfoperty in
every country where liberty prevails, is secur
ed to the cultivator and polieiFor, they now
have every stimulus that can excite them to in
dustry, and increasing their agricultural produc
tions. France, a country blest in the goodness
■of Us foil, and a temperate climate, under the
administration of its formed tyrannical govern
ment, seldom was .able tofarnifhit; inhabitants
with bread; but hereafter, we must expect
grain will be railed, not only fumcient for their
own consumption, but to supply foreign mar
kets ; as the deficiency did not arise from any
sterility in the foil, or an unfavorable climate,
but from exorbitant taxes, together with over
bearing and greedy landlords, and a rapacious
clergy, who amongst them, swept away the,
whole produce of the poor Peasant's industry ;
for that was the highest title they then would
afford him. Poland, a great wheat country,
from the inoft abject state of aristocratic vaflal
age, by the virtus of a patriot King, is emanci
pated from its flavery,and from the fame cause,
(that of enjoying the fruits of their own labour)
the farmers will undoubtedly encreafe the quan
tity formerly railed for exportation "
FORTHE GAZTTEOF TIIEUS'ITID STATES.
Ovid's MEWMORPHOSES revived
STRANGE pws, Mctft
trumpet relt<?,
Ot the late rhHu*lj>i,iJ Pown-n.ectin^ debates
Old Olid's iciaug: changes, longlinceoutol iniild,
Aie brought imoactiou, *»d g«cai|y lefiu d ;
For the caufeol hir huaom, Elections, and alj,
The grand cjueitons Ullculs'd on this lub-lunar
ball,
*rc argi.vd wrl. ■:.e*j;\—« na! - 1 , d with caic,
j&y a crtaiure, u>v ineniis, would h'tvc made Ovid
— To avoid being trriions, I'll diop necdlcfs chat,
And briefly mlgron, I to aKA 1
— Xcifh<r or 4:vurj-rpt, but rqti of tt>
nowu,
\\ l hofc time must encreak —with the noifc ol the
ArillocßA l f, ;X.r,:>cRATS— poor, nch, sal and
ltdll,
from the ,'maa rats wno:e out, to I lie big rati
vho'it /
Bevwu. O \c ir.jbl.MS—ycur fqmhblmgs may
t>t lag.
A biuiL 01 a CAT as pioictitnr nr KING
Philadelphia, Aug. i 8.
An AMERICAN.
On Monday, the 6th day of this instant, the
Supreme Court of tfte United States met, when
all the judges were prelent. The Attorney-
General of the United States gave notice, that
he should move the Court on tiie Wednesday
following for a mandamus to the Circuit-Court
of PennlVlvania, commanding them to proceed
on the petition of William Hogburne, a claim
ant of a pension, in which they had refufed to
proceed, from a supposed nullity cf the
law. The motion was accordingly begun on
Wednesday; when afrerfome prefatory remarks,
the Attorney-General was alked from the bench,
whether he conceived it to be an official right
to offer such a motion, as he had intimated it
to be. He answered, that be did conceive it to
be an official right. Upon which l'cveral obser
vations were made, and tiie debate continued
from day today until Saturday last. The opin
ions of the judges being then taken, they were
equally divided.
D. B.
In confcquence of this division, it was im
proper for the Attorney-General to move the
fubjedt officially. He then appeared as counsel
for the invalids; and the motion, after being
accompanied with the reasons, which influenced
him to believe that the Inferior Court had er
red, was poftpened for a final decilion until the
next Court.
The important question u whether a State
can be sued," is alio set for the firft day of the
next term.
Accounts from Ch2rle(lon by the schooner
Eagle, Capt. Lloyd Jones, advise, that since the
20 th of June, the foafons have been favorable
in the back country of South-Carolina and
Georgia, and since the middle of July, in the
low-lands along the sea-coast. A healthier sea
son was never known in Carolina than the pre
ent. The rice fM'amps were promiiing an un
commonly abundant crop, and the Indian corn
had only failed on high, sandy situations. The
indigo was much injured by the early droughts
along the coast, but promilcd a plentiful pro
duce in the upper country.
The celebrated Mr. Paine, it is said, has
quitted England. Since which his third pam
phlet has been fufpendcd.
Capt. Kennedy, of the Brig Harriet, from
Bourdeaux, arrived at Charleston, (S. C.) gives
the following information : that the tumult in
Paris had not subsided—that the King's bureau
had been broken open, and some letters found,
by which it was dilcovered that his majesty had
been carrying on a very treaionable correspon
dence with the emigrant princes—That double
guards had been placed around the palace, in
which their niajeities were confined on account
of the suspicions entertained of their intention
to quit the capital—That all the citizens of
Paris were in arms ; that the national aflembly ■
has continued fitting for five days, without ad
journment—and that the general opinion in
■ Bourdeaux was, that the king would be be
headed.
Lately arrived at Richmond, Virginia, 15
Indian warriors belonging to the Catawba Na
tion, It is said that their visit is to offer their
services to the United States, to fight against
the hostile tribes, which are now at war against
us.
Between 2 and 300 troop-, arrived at Cariifls
the 6th inft- under the command of Capt. John
Mills, on their way to the Western Country;
By a gentleman from Kentucky (fays the
Potowmac Guardian, a paper piinted at Mar
tinfburg) we learn, that 500 Warriors of the
Cherokee Nation, with their squaws, hordes,
&:c. had gone into Kentucky, and joined the
white inhabitants, with an intention of taking
part in the enfning campaign.
An article in a Hartford paper, speaking of
that place, fays, no town between Bolton and
Philadelphia exhibits fucli marks of encrcafe as
that does—and that there appears to be no
town where large capitals can be employed to
greater advantage, as the present importing
places are by no means adequate to a full supply
of goods for tite consumption of the interior
country.
Tuesday last a man fell from,off a new house
in Seeo.nd-ftreet, and wa; so badly bruised, that
his life is dofpaired of.
A propoh! is In Bollon, for printing
by fubfciiption in one vol. lemo.TH* Farmers 1
F* i F-Nn—or the history Char lis Won.
TH*««an cmirr new the author of 41 the
menxmi of (be BloomfgroYe Family ."
iM'ill l ADELl'lil A.
ildte.
lov.tw-
A TRAVELLER.
91
By the Pittsburgh Gazette of the nth iufl
we learn that information had been received at
that place, that two parties oi Indians were
approaching towards t.ie frontiers of Weftmore
iund County—-and that Major M'Cttly, and
Capt. Guthrie were out with a party intend
ing to fan hi with thejji if poifible. *
A detachment of troops frtfm New-Jersey,
under the command ot Ensign Hunter, had ai
rived at Pittlburgh.
A iuklier by the name of Henry Hamilton,
was condemned to fuller death for mutiny, in
attempting to taice the life ofEnfign Devin, by
lticking him v. ith a bayonet in the breuit. lie;
was carried to the gallows, and every prepara
tion made for his execution, when a reprieve
arrived from the Commander in Chief
Printers, Fame's
Abetter fi'om HaUfax, of the 7th nit. to a
corrctp6ode»r in Newark, lays, rhut Co!, fan
ningy Governor of St. John's llland, tiie Chiel
]iutioe, Attorney-General, &rc- were lately dif
miifed his Majeitv's service, upon the crimi
nating complaints of MeiiVs. Daniel Grandin,
Peter M'G6wa'n, and Co. for various oppref
.ions tiled and pra&ifed against his Majelly s
fubjelts ip that Island.
An agricultural fncietv was incorporated ;n
Maffachufews in March last ; this i'oacty is now
organised j its officers chufcn and committees ap
pointed in various parts of the State to i llicit fut>-
fcriptions, to promote the purpolvs of the inftitu
uon. . , ,
There is no country in the world in which there
is a greater field for agricultural improvement
;han America. In several of the States agnculiu
ra 1 Societies are established ; a mutual intercourse
and communication of observations, experiments
and discoveries, will be highly conducive to the
promoting this one of the liilt of ail human con
cerns.
On the 12th instant, a dctachment nf ico fine
[ 1 oops left Fredericktown, under ihc direction us
Enfc-n Gregg, deflined to join the aimy at the
Welt wfer.d.3
Tbe r rj is now living in I.anfingburgh, State of
child of black, parents. 18 months
old, wliofc (kin is as white as the whitelt childicn
m the place, the eyes bright blue, the hair Undy,
but short, harsh and curly as that of any negro ;
its nole, mouth and hps, and every other feature
like thofeof its nation.
August the second the Methodists had a confer
ence at Lvon, Mairachufetis, being the fiill ever
held by that denomination in that State.—-Bilbop
Aibury and feveia! Elders were pYcfcnu
A correspondent informs us, that at a meet
ing of tie President and managers of the Dela
ware and Schuylkill canal, on the 14th instant,
the following interesting tefolutions were en
tered into by that board, viz.
Whereas the board havewith great attention
examined the ground from the mouthof Storey
creek down,with a view to determine where the
weft end of the canal fnall unite with the river
Schuylkill, and finding that it will be practica
ble to cut a caual 0:1 the east lide of the rive last
mentioned, from the moll northerly point al
lowed liy the law, and that the fall from thence
to high*water mark at the Delaware, at the
noi ihfoLunds orther city of Philadelphia, amounts
to fifty feet; and that various and mul
tiplied will result from taking the
water from the Schuylkill at the mouth of Sto
neV creek :
I Therefore refojved, That the canal shall
commence as high up the river as the law per
mits.
It was farther resolved, That Do&or Rit
tenhoufe be requefred to lay out and stake off
the ground for the canal ; and that he be em
powered to employ such alHftants and workmen
as he may find necessary in the business.
The board also agreed to appoint a fuperin
tendant, in order to commence the work with
out day; and Proposals for such an appoint
ment were dire&ed to be pubiilhed, so that we
I may expect the butinefs to be carried on with
| vigor.
To demonstrate the superior excellence of
Beetliam's Washing-Mill to any other mode ol
walhing cloaths, the following certified account
of the operation of that machine, is publiihed in
a paper :
The fallowing articles were completely wafb
ed between the hours of nine in the morning and
nice 3tHi£ht, in z common mill of lix guineas
value; aud in the operation confuniiNg only
nine pounds and an half of soap, and a pound of
pearl-afiies ; they were all wrung at the lame
time in a common wringer, value one guinea.
350 lhirts and iliifts, each worn a week—64 a
prons, ditto—lo gowns, ditto—lo frocks, dit
to *-2 long table-cloths, 48 sheets, worn a
month. Caps and other small articles innu-
nierabJe.
It may be necefTary to remark, that to wash
the lame quantity by hand, always took fever,
women two days.
A second walking, on the 28th of Tvlarch, was
performed in twelve hours, with only nine
pounds and an half of soap, and a pound of pearl
aflies—4oo Ihirts and fhifts, worn a week—9B
aprons, ditto— 31 handkerchiefs—4 gowns—41
caps, and other pieces of small linen ; 52 flieets,
each vi orn one month.
Thelc machine"; are made by Mr. Joseph
Pope of Boston, warranted equal to those made
in London, and fold at a much smaller price.
Several attempts have been made to conftruft
this .machine in this country which have failed ;
Miv Pope has fuccecded perfe&Jy.
The American rhilofophkal Socirfv, at their lafl
meeting, iJcftcd jihe iuilowing Gentlemen Mem
bers :
Erasmus Dar win, M. D. F. R. S. Physician
in Derby, in England.
YV I_l 1a m Currie, M. D. Author o? a new
Mrdicil Publication—Citizen of Philadelphia.
Unc Von Troit, Archbishop ol Sweden ;
Authot of Letters on Iceland.
Mr.]ohn TruSjb I t.,ut Conncflicul; Painter
in (hfbry, Jce.
fxtracl frcm the Minutes,
SAM. MAG AW, Su'ry,
t.' 3 WMU NIC AT lONS.
A free constitution and equal laws fteadiiy
admin iltered are deemed "ejlcrftial to liberty
If, without these, it were pollible that liberty
could be enjoyed to day, it would be with a
melancholy forefight 01 its certain lois to-mor
row. Will it do therefore in America, where
the people have been lo much br*
educatiou, and have feeu 4Mid-pR r acUictl lb long
in the school of their own politics—will it de
ceive any body lor men to call themielves
friends of liberty, who are oppoled to its nrlt
principles and inoit important defences? These
men diilike the constitution—they want amei^d-
ments —it is indefinite—"too much power is
given—part must be taken away and given to
the state government;—canfolidation is of all
evils the greateil and the molt certain to befall
us- Yet toeyallure us, andwho can doubt what
these men of truth ulfert, that they are friends
of the conltitution—friends of £;ood order, anxi
ous for the prefer vat ion of the public tranquil-
lity. They have oppoicd almoit every impor
tant law that has palled —they ft ill reprelent
the laws as horn in fin, and nurled in corrup
tion, and worse than any thing in the unive'rfe,
except thole who made and thole who execute
I them. Still they mean no harm—they would
I not touch this system of' fraud and corruption.
If they could hold the reins of government,
which for the pure love of virtue and liberty
of the people they would condescend to do, they
would deem themselves bound to proceed againlt
liberty and justice, by carrying tiie wicked sys
tem, now a lacred law, into erfedh While tlie
people chufe to maintain the laws and constitu
tion, the counsels of theft men, too gross to de
ceive, and too pernicious to guide them, wi 1 be
dilregarded—but the nature of their counsel
evinces, that whenever the work of destroying
j law and government shall be undertaken, wil
ling laborers will not be wanting.
Let us for one moment, the adtual
situation of our country as ,portrayed on a late
anniverlary, with the representations, or rather
misrepresentations of thofc wno have under
taken to censure public measures, and to brand
their authors with every opprobrious epithet.
The Independence of the United States
has been celebrated this year throughout the
Union, with uncommon attention. Among the
numerous toasts and fentiiv.ents which have
been given on the occasion, tie genuine princi
ples of republicanism, always friendly to good
government, form a diitiuguiflied part —the
prosperity of our country has been almost uni
versally recolle&ed and acknowledged; and
Scarcely a lisp or reflection to the disadvantage
>f the measures of government, or the men in
office, has been uttered—on tlie other hand, the
Chief of Patriots, whose. iignature has fandtion
ed those measures from which Inch solid bleflings
have flowed, has received theuniversal plaudits
of freemen. Among all the numerous collec
tions of the citizens in the various states, which
of the laws of the United States has beeu disap
proved ?—Where fljall we look fr»r evidences ot
public happinef;, if not in those aflemblies of the
people where every cifcurnil tfice conspires to.
unbend the mind, and give a loose to the genu
ine emotions of the foul ?
" Warm from the heart, and tme to all its fires/*
Springs the bright hope, the Patriot's breaifc in
spires.
Some djny the fdft that the country ha- pros
pered under the influence of* the new govern
ment. Others wifely fay, it would have done
as well without a new constitution. Another
set admit the fact, but draw an inference from
it of a different kind. They fay, the season ct
prosperity is dangerous "Wealth corrupts and
lays jealousy to sleep—and now the plot against
liberty is going on briikly, while we are unluf
picious of danger. We (hall wake up withfome
money in our pockets it is true, but slaves, fay
they. It is not strange that the lultre of go
i vernment should make its old enemies, the 19-
[ vers of darkness and confufion, sick.
u Thou that with furpafling glory crown'd,
u O Sun, I tell thee how I hate thy beams"—
was said by an old enemy of government.
There is a class of men with whom the insi
nuations against the purity of government, and
the pretences of corrupt speculations by men in
public trust, will have influence. They, how
ever, were never friendly to it. Knaves take
the suspicion of foul play for the proof of it.—
Each finds in his own heart that the tale of
slander might be true. We are as often duped
by too little confidence in men, as by too much.
It is too late in the day for the people to be
deceived by the wind music of certain declaim
ers on the deplorable situation of our country—
they have thrumbed this tune so long, that it is
aftonilhing they are not tired of hearing it—
when they are at length almost reduced to the
situation of certain preachers in London, whole
audiences are frequently no more than the vi
car and clerk.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Georgia Packer, Charleston
Margueritte, l.anglois, St. Marks
Schr. , Eafterwood, North-Carolina
Friendfliip, Bowen, Maiyland
Eagle, Jones, Charleston
Hope, Luce, Virginia
Sloop Sally, Chefrow, do.
Liberty, Monrayne,
Harriet, Enos,
Hooour, Goodrich,
Arabella, Moklsr,
New-York & Phiiad. Packet, Bird, do.
Laurel, Srevens, Virginia
Sally, _ Emmery, St. Kitls
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cent*, 21 Jg
3 per Cents, 12 jc)
Deferred, *3j3
Full fharcs Eank U. S. 49 per cent, prcm
J (hares, 61
St. ICitts
Am boy
New-York
do.Treasury Department,
August 10, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next inclufwe, lot the lupply of all Rations
which rrpv be required for the use of the United
States, from the firft day of January 10 the tlorr v
firft day of December, 1793, both days inclufiw,
at the placcs, and within the diftritts hereafter
mentioned, viz.
1. At any or places betwixtYol k-To A'n &
Carli(le,in the state ot Pennfvlvania,and Pitttburgh,
and at York-Town and C*il
2. At any place or places from Pittsburgh to the
mouth of Big Beaver Cieck, and at the mouth of
Big B 'avcr Creek.
3. At any place or plarr< from the said mouth to
the upper falls oi the said Big Beaver, and at the
uppei falls.
4. Ar anyplace or places from the said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places from the said Mahoning
nve' to the Head Navigation of the River Caya
hoga, znd at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any place or places from the said Head Na
vigation to the mouth of the fa:ci River Cayahoga,
and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
♦he Big Beaver Ocek to the mouth of the River
Mufkingilrrr, and up the said River to the Tufca
rowas, and at the Tufcarowas, and thence over to
the C«iyahoga River, and thence down the said
River to its mouth.
8. At anyplace or places betwixt the mouth of
the River Muikingum and the mouth ot the Scioto
River, and at the month ot *.hc said River Scioto.
9. At.any place or placcs betwixt the mouth of
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great M;ami,
ai the mouth of the Great Miami, and fiom thence
to the Rapids 01 the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
10. At any place or places brtwixt the mouth of
the Great Miami, up the said Miami to and at
Pique Town.
j 1. At any place or places from Fort Wafhingcon
to Foit Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
place or places from Fort Hamilton 10 Fort St.
Clair, and at Foit St. Clair.
12. At any place or placcs from Fort Sr. Clair to
Fort Jefferlon, and at Fort Jdrerfon.
13. At any place or places from FortJcfferfon to
the field of ast ion of the 4th of November, 1 791,
and at the said fic!d of action.
14. At any placc or placcs from the said field of
action to the Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
15. At any place or places from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls ot the Miami River, which
empties into Lake Erie, and at the said Falis, and
from thence to its mouth, and at its mouth.
16. At anv place or plates from the mouth of the
said Miami River of Lake Erie toSanduflcy Lake,
and at Sandufky Lake.
17. At any place or places from ihe said Sanaufkv
Lake to the mouth of the River Cavahoga.
18. At any jilbce or places from the mouth of the
f«iid River Cayahogato Prefque 1 He, and at Prefque
I Hr.
19. At any placeorp'aces fromPrcfque Iflcto the
stream running into Lake F.rie from towards the
Jadaghque Lake, and thence over to and at the
said Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alleg
hany River to Fort Franklin.
2C. At any piacc or places from Pi cfquc I fle toLe
Bcuf, and at Lc Beuf.
21. At any place or places from I.e Beuf to Fort
Franklin, and at Fort Fi anklin, and from thence
to Pit'.fburgh.
22. At any place or places from tncßapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of the Whb'afll River, and from
the mouth of the said Wabalh River to the mouth
of the River Ohio.
23. At any place or places on the End fide of the
River Mrfliflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the llliono s River.
24. At any place or places on the Eallfide of the
Mifliflippi, between the mouth of the Ohio and
the River Margot inclusively.
25. At any place or places from the said River
Margot to the River Yazous inclusively.
26. At any place or places from the mouth of the
{aid Wabafh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fort
Knox.
27. At any place or places from Fort Knox, up
the said Wabalh, to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
28. At any place or places from Ouittanon,up the
said Wabafh, to the head navigation of a branch
thereof ca'. : c d Little River, and at the said head
navigation of Little River.
29. At any place or places from ihr said brad na
vigation of Little River over to the Miami Villas.
30. At any place or pbees from the mouth of the
River Tcneftce to O'-cochappo or Bear Creek, on
the said River, inchifWely.
31 At any place or placesfrom the mouth 6f the
River Cumberland to Nathville, on the said River,
and at Naftiville.
And at any piace or places within thirty miles
of said N'alhville to the Southward, Westward or
Northward thereof.
Should any nations be required at any placcs, or
■within other dillii&s, not (pccificd in there p'ro
pofds, the pricc of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the contraftoi.
The rations to be fupplitd are to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or-flour,
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of pork,
Half »jiu of ruin, brandy or whisky,
One quirt of fait,
Two quarts of vinegar, {
Two pounds'of soap, P fr 100 T3t tons.
One pound ol candles, J
The rations are to be furnifbed in fucfi quanti
ties as that there shall at all times, during (he said
term, be fufficient for the eonfumption of the
troops at cach of the said polls, lor the space of at
Jeafl three mom hs in advance, in good and whole
some prOvisions, if the fame fllall be required.
It is to be understood ineachcarc. that all losses
f'jftained by the depredations of the enemy, or by
means of the troops ot the United States, lhall he
paid for at the pi ices of the articles captured or de
stroyed, on the depofnions of two or more credita
ble characters, and ihe certificate of a commiflion
ed officer, ascertaining the circumstances of ihe
lofs,and theamouut ot the articles for which com
pensation is cbimcd.
The contrast for ilie above supplies will be made
her for one year, or for two yeats, as may appear
eligible. Persons disposed to contrail will there
fore confine their oifeis to one year, or they may
make their proportions so as to admit ,m elettion
of the term of t wo years.
Tilt offers may comprise all ihc places which
have been fpecifieil, or a part of them only.
War Department,
August 6, 1792.
J NFORMATION is hereby given 10 all ihe
Military Invalids of the United States, tha
ihe Turns to which they arc intitlid for fix mon hs
of their annual prnfiopl from the 4 h day oi
179 -, and which will become ciuc on the sth day
of .September 1792, will be paid on the ia <l day
by the Commilhoners of the Loans within tin
States relpcflivcly, under the usual regulations, viz.
Kvciy apoiica-ion for payment ruuft he accom
panied by the following vouchers.
ifl. The certificate given by the ftste,(pteffying
that the perl'on poflVfling the fame is in ladt an m
va!i i, and .afceitaining 1 lie sum to which as fudi lit
ijS annually omith d.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, on< of the Ju ftich of the
county of 1 1 the Jtate of and made oath that
he is the f (me A. B. to vdhom the original certificate
in his pojlcfjion was gu en, of which thejollotxing is
d copy '{the certificate given by the fiate to be raited)
That He feriied (regiment, corps or vejjel) at
the time he was difahled, and that he vow refida in
the and county of and'has lefidcd
therefor the lafl years, previous to which he re
ft did in
In cafe an invalid (faouM apply for payment by
an attorney, the laid attorney, besides the ccitifi
cate arid oath before recited, tnuft pfodtrce a spe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to [he following
form :
LAB. of county of slate of do)
hereby conflitute and appoint C. D. of my lawful >
attorney, to receive in my behalf of vty pens/on j
for fix months, as an invalid of the UfiiUd Stales, j
from the fourth day of March, one thovfiid seven s
hundred andninety- two, and ending the fifth any of
September, one thonf an dfevert hundredand rutitty-two.
Signed and fealcd
in the prefcnce of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executor and adminifhators
must he accompanied with legal evidence of their
refpe&ive offices, and also of ihe time the invalids
died, whose penfiorf they may claim.
By command of the
Prtfident of the United St?tes,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refpeftive States are
rcqucAed to imblilh the above in their ncwfpa
orrs, for ihe space of two mon:hs.
Certificates Loft.
MISS IX G, Five New-Jersey Certificates, fizned
by Silas Condiß, viz.
No. 740 for £. 75 o o
1978 11 12 9
715 100
34® 2 1 4 6
829 o 12 9
The fubfcr-.bcr tuppofes the above Certificates
are liolcn. Whoever will discover the Thief, or
Certificates, and leave information at the Treasury
or Loan-Office in New-Jerfev, or in the County
Cotleftoi'* Office at MOl ris-Town, shall be hand
somely rewarded by
Morris-Town^
A T cw- lerfcy, July 12, 1792
SECURITIES.
SOLDIERS, Mariners, and militiamen's pay,
lands, and claims on the public,
SHARES, in the Banks, in the Canals,and Turn
pike Road,
CEj\ 1 1 FICATES, granted by the public, and
the old and late paper monies,
NOTES of hand, bills, bunds, and mortgages
with or without deposits,
BOUGHT, fold, or negotiated, at No. 2, in
Fmirth-ftreet below Market-street, by
V II A N C I S WHITE,
Who tranfa&s business in the public offices for
country people and others, by virtue of a power,
of attorney, or by personal application.
PHILADELPHIA
Wm. CLE LAND,
BOSTON,
Tranfa&s business in the Funds of the United
States;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &c.
£3" Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
I with Diligence and Punctuality.
J ut 's *• (epim & iazu277i) |
New-Brunfwick Lottery.
HIGHEST PRIZE, 2,00 d DOLLARS.
Public are hereby informed, that the
L " (lcr V is pofipontd
11 the third day of Sepicmber next—at which
time, the Managers are positively determined the
drawing lhall commence, in Mr. Norman's Lon«
Room, in the City of NVw-Brunfwick.
ricuetii are to be had at Samukl Cooper's
Ferry where fortunate adventurers mav rweivtl
eir prize-money ten days after drawing. A hfl
of fortunate numbers will be published in the
(•azitti of the United States.
Circun, fiances unforeCren,and nnftvorable
n' e Occ!,r,oncd the neccfTitv of this
further poffponement. The Rcftorar.d '.V„d, ns
ast .he affiftanee of their episcopal W other
cent, and not iwo blanks lo a prize. ' 1 P
.. h TI!E manacers.
* Letters airc£led to Pbtc u k
"oft Mafl.'r \7« T» r • * KEKKOIV,
immediately P " dl W '" bc
Mew-Brunfwick, July t j, t 7 ga.
92
SECRET JOURNALS.
( For particulars,Jce Prop of ah at large.)
Su'blcriptmns arc received by the principal
Booklcllers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, A r o. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
The Travels of Gyrus:
TO WHICH IS ANNEXED,
A DISCOURSE upon the THEOLOGY and
r I "*H E Travels of Cyrus having gon«» through so
J many editions in Europe, every thing which
might be said to rccommend so valuable a work,
is rendered useless ; and as it is now almofl, il not
entirely out of print, the publifhcr trusts tluie
will he little difficulty in procuring a refpeclabJe
lift of fubferibers to an American Edition.
This work will be published in one vo'ume,
12mo. on good demy paper, and a neat type ; and
will contain about 350 pages.
The price to fubferibers will be One Doll a r ,
to be paid on the delivery of the book, which
will he neatlv bound and lettered.
The work (hall be put to press in O&obt r next,
provided there shall be 950 fubferibers.
Any person fuDlcribing for, or procuring fub
feribers for twelve books, and will be refponfibie
lor the payment, Pnal! be entitled to two giuiis.
The names of fubfciibcts lha'l be prefixed to
the work.
Witnejpss.
(£<?* Subscriptions received by mofl of the
Booklellers in Philadelphia and New.York.
N. B. Gentlemen who may please encourage
the work by procuring fubferiptioni, arc requeued
to (orwaid a lift of the names lubfcribcd, by the
20(hday of Oftob'sr next.
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookseller, at the Stone-HoulV, in Secoitd-Stuet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
Or a Ditftionary of Arts, Scienccs,
and Mifcellaneons Literature,
On a plan entirely new : By which the rlift'crcni
sciences and arts are dialled into the form
Of diflintt Treatises or Sjfi ems.
This fixlli volume contains, among a vaiiely »l
intending articles,
Dioptrics,oilit11 at ion,d iving bell,art of (1 r.o win£,
Dubjin art of Dying, theory of the earth and earth
quakes, Edinburgh, education,'hiiiory of Egypt,
Syflcm of cle&ricity, history of England, engrav
ing, essaying, history of Ethiopia, &c. See. See.
JOSEPH LEWIS.
(1 aw 7 w)
The work is printing on a fupeifinc paper, and
new types (call for tlic purpose in Philadelphia)
which will be occasionally renewed before'the)
eontraft a worn appeaiance.
11. The work may he had in volumes or half-volumes;
n bring proposed to deliver the volumes in
parts, at twenty fhil!ings(Prnnfylvania currency)
each, in boards, or tor the whole volume, five
dollars, in boards. The volumes now finiftied
a.eto be paid foron delivery,and the price ot one
volume is to be paid in advance, and thepiice
(it each fuccceding volume to be paid on de
livering the volume preceding it.
11l In the eourfeof publication will be exhibit
ed above five hundred copper plalcj, elejranilv
engraven in Philadelphia ; which by far exceed
in number those given in any oilier fciemific
d.ftiona.y At the clofeof the publication will
be delivered, an ele|ant froniifpiece, the dedi
cation, preface, and proper title pages for the
aiitereiu volumes.
(iaw6wl
y As the very great e-cp-nce attending the
undertaking, makes punftuaht, of payment in.
difpenfably necessary, the publisher flatters him
fclt that the lubicribers will be perfedHy fatislied
with his adhering (liifllyto his original plan of
delivering the books only on receiving payment
agreeable to the conditions of publication '
Subscriptions for the Encyclopedia
Will continue to be received on the lame terms as
usual, till the firft of September, 1792, when the
price will be cnocafcd. Ten- Dollaks to be
paid on (übfcrtptiofi, by those who have not lub
icribcd before that tinie.
rhofe who have fubfcribtd, but nnt taken their
books before that time, will be conlidered as not
having lubfcribed.
As ihefubfc.ripti.on will probably be clofH by
Christmas, such as chufc to be m.ireffnrs of this
very valuable and important work, will do well
to come forward in t.mi, 'thai tbev may not be
dl,appointed. j uiv ep[f ■
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold bv THOMAS DOIiSON, and oiher
Booksellers in Philadelphia,
A Collection of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI.
i 1 RITUAL SOXGS ; feleffrd ftom different
018, and publirtied by Order of the Con
ventinn holding the LVftrine of the Salvation o!
all|Men, met in Philadelphia, Mav 25, ,jat.
I rice of a finglc book, bound, 3- Bths of a Dollar
with good allowance to thofc who takequtntiiies
AU S"I 4- (tpt Q
To Ic puvlifiled b) Subfcriftotti
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCEEDINGS OFT HE
Old Oon^rcf<} 3
From September 1774, to Mach 1789;-—
An autb nvic and original ejjllc£linn of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c.
written during the latewar;
And rxtr acts from the
PROPOSALS,
By ISAAC NEALE,
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
(The ninth edition of)
MYTHOLOGY of the PAGANS,
BY THE CHEVALIER RAMSAY
CONDITIONS.
Burlington, July 21, 1792
JUST PUBLISHED,
hlujlratcd with twenty-ta o coppcr plates,
CONDITIONS
BankoftheUnitedStatcs.
resolved, • J" 4Y ,4 >
T?! H tf L ° f Olfeosnt «8d DtbA
Virginia.
RESOLVED,
Thai the 2d I ucfdav in SepitmHrr n,v, •
pointed for the Eleflion ol Tlm,„„ J "P*
a Cafhlcr, for lb, OlFiceof D\k a " Z ™ '"* '
in the City of Richmond. ' " D: P ol "i
By Older of the P.di l,„t aIM} DI „ Q
lOHX KKAV, CafhV
>-iDenezer Hazard
stock-broker. '
Has Rcmovtd buOHICEio Mo
.' S TC«nd.Strect,wl ! eit , h e c(,miu u ,MOD 1 r
and fell on Commission, Cmificitr, ~1 deL iv*
j .United, and Individual Suua, Bank Si rk r ?
and Turnpike Share,,&e. & r . JcK) Cjna1 '
G3- Subfcribei s to the Uniycrfal Tomi„ wM
.'I"! vet rece.ved the,, CcrtiSutea a re dcfitS
IO call for them. M
July iB.
Sixty Dollars Reward'.
TVRQRE.gpoI iQ Baltimore, the loth of Ap.it
*-» it, and made ms elcape.a NecioM „ ' .
BILL FLANAGAN, the p,ope,?y *
•fcrther. He ts a (tout. ftratght Itkely fellow ,b.l
•25 years ot age; 5 leet 8, 9or to inches high He
aititis to be a zealous Memoditt, is extremely ati
lul, talkative and pUuliblc; cau read, and ~ jj
•fuppofedcan wiite. He had or, a failot'i ledcloih
jacket, a ftr.ped ditto, an old coarse linen Oiirt
■ nd a pa'r ot canvals trousers; he was barefooted'
It is not doubted he will alter htsdre!s,aitdch<i„.e
li»s name. He was lately the property of Cap"
Jofcph Gouitou, of Baltimore, and was employed
as a sailor on boatd his pßcket; and it Is probably
may try to get on board foti.e veffolio-pjuacity of
feamyn.
It is fuppofrd hi is now in N'ew-Yoik or Plii|»,
rfelpbia Whoever ukes up and (ccu«! [jid
Negro, f.> that the fublcriber gets htm again, (lull
receive Sixty Dollars reward, and rrafonablc
(charges. CHRISTOPHER HUGHtS.
JJahimorr, Augujl 1, ('av^ij
TO BE SOLD,
(And poffeflion given immediately)
A Valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
containing 213 acres, whereof 47 aic wood
h ud, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made; the
cleared land is under good fcnce, and is well
adapted to grass, and there being lo much meadow
• larg,- stock may be raifcd : it is alio natural to
wheat, and a proper attention to a well-kept Hock,
will much improve its quality, and be liie molt
profitable : it has a young orchard of 200 apple
trcts, a variety of pcach and cheny trees, and*
!ar#e garden. Theie are on the premises a hand*
l )ine two flory stone houCe and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza; alfo,agood barn, with flabling,
eow-houfe, gianary, waggon-house, work-shop,
and fmoak-houfe. The fjiuation is high, pleaCijit,
and healthv, and affords some very agrccdo/c pro
fpe&s, and is in a good neighbourhood : iilie»oA
the main road to New-York, about a mile audi
half from Princeton, Ne\tf-Jerfey, and 43 born
this ci:y. The tii'lt* was examined and approved
by eminent council before thelubfcribcr putchafed.
For further paitirulars apply to the fubfenber, at
No. 141. South Second-flreei, or at No. 81,
Water-street, Philadelphia.
(f p 3w)
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
N. B. Stock for the iai m may bt had of the jmc
fcnt tenant.
Also, to be Sold, and entered immediately,
A two-story Brrk HOUSE and BAKE-HOUSE,
in Arch-ftrect, No. 23, 16 feet two nn hu in front,
and 102 feet in depth. Apply as above.
July 17. . M)
TERRITORY OF COLUMBIA,
June 28, 179 a.
PURSUANT to the last Will and Tcftanicntof
the late Rev. Alexander Williamson,
deccafcri, will be expo fed to Public Sale on 1 hurl
day, the mh of October next,at Georgetown,
011 a cred it. of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved fecurity,to bear interclllrom
Ihe date—That valuable Seat ol Land, in fliootgo
mery couuty, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation of the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatest part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very considerable
quatH4!y ct fine meadow Situated about 6 miles
irom the Federal City,and the fame diftancefrom
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy pait of the country.
The i improvements arc, a very elegant two story
Brick Dwelling Iloufc. (with four rooms and a
or cntrv. on a fl«>or) and the neceiTary out
houses. H EJ9RY TO W NSE N D,)
BENJ. STODDERT, S Executor#.
THOMAS JOHNS, )
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
July 6,1792.
THE Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-S"* on
Rock Creek, deemed by those who havecs
mined it. equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one or
a mile of the rive Potowinac* half a mde from
the market houfc in Georgetown, and one mile
from the President's fquate, in the city ot Wafo
ington—on tide water, navigable for vcffcls o»' f "
v'eral hundred bushels burthen.—The stream is
year round,to turn four pair of ftoncs*
and the fall may be made from 25 to go feet, t
is übiiecc&ii v to dwell on the advantage* 0. ,lC
a function. ..
Thr purchaser may be ?rrommfwia*Ml..T'l!'' *
fvw hundred acres of land adjoining the Ml"
if that should be an obje#.
( e P3 m M.J ul )
WANTED, to go to Boston,
a journeyman coppersmith,,*
i 1 small work, such a> Tea-Keltic. Corrt-
Potj.&c. — Good wages and confhnt employ l '"
will be given to a perton with good tecoiTJ?ie n ""
tions—a finale maa would be preferred. Ecqu'--
of the Editor. ,
July 25. ['P« W J
HI
f n
$ ,
1
(fp.tf'
B. STOMEW.