&#z((U oflS
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH.STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 101, of Vol. lII.]
ADVERTISEMENT.
(p- TO comprize in the present volume of this Gazette all the
Laws which are and may be enafied by Congress in the present feffton,
it will he necefary to extend the numbers to the lajl of May. The fourth
■volume, therefore, wilt commerce with the beginning of June— and will
te printed on paper of larger dimenjions than thf present, provided the
liitor's receipts of arrearages Jhall enable him to dolt—the price to con
tinue at Three Dollars per annum.
Three years are nearly expired Jince this publication firfl made its ap
f trance; during which, scarcely a fngle injlance has occurred of re
mijnefs in punßually dijpatching the papers from the Printing-Office—
tlteirfailures in reaching the subscribers, have been owing to causes
which were entirely beyond the controul of the publisher. Under the
new regulations of the Pofl-Office Department, the Subfcibers for the
GAitrrt of the United Statss may therefore promise themselves
the advantage of the flriflejl punßualityon the ' part of the Editor—
which, aided by that energy we have the greatejl reason to expe£l will
4ijlinsuijh thefuperintcndance of the Gentleman now at the head of the
Pop-Office Department, will ensure afieady tranfmijion of Newspapers
to all parts as the Union.
SECONP CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the cify o\ Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
sylvania, Monday the tw< nty-foutth of O&obfcr, one
thouland seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT eftablifliing a Mint, and regulating
the Coins of the United States.
Section -•'D E enabled by ihe Senate and House of Repre-
IJ fentatives of the United Stales of America, in
Congress a(Tembled; and it is hereby ena&ed and declared, That
a mint for the of a national coinage, be, and the fame is
effoWtfhed ; to be iituate and carried on at the feat of the govern
ment' of'ttie United States, for the time being: And that for the
well conrilifting of the business ot the said mint, there (ball be the
following officers and'perfons, nanrfely—a dire&or, an affayer, a
chief coiner, an engraver, a treasurer.
Sec. 2. And be it further enaftcd, That the director of the
mint llia 11 employ as many clerks, workmen and servants as he
shall from time to time find necessary', lubjeft to the approbation
of the Prefidcrit of the United States.
iSec. 3. And be it further ena&ed, That the refpeflive fun&ions
and duties of the officers abovementioned, fhal 1 be as follow
she 'dire£lor of the mint shall have the chics management ot the
bu'fincfs thereof, and (hall luperihtcnd all othei officers arid per
sons who lhall bi employed therein. The aflayer shall receive
and give receipt-s for ail metals which may lawfully be brought to
the mint to be coined ; shall alTay all such of them as may require
it, and (hall deliver them to the chief coiner to be coined. The
chief coiner shall .aufe to be coincd all metals which fhail be re
ceived by' him'frr that purpose, according to fucli regulations as
lhall be prelcribcd by ttrs or any future law. The engraver fhail
fink and prepare the nectflary dies for such coinage, with ihe pro
per devices and infenptions,' but it shall be lawlul tor the func
tions and duties of chcf coiner and engraver to be performed by
©ne person. The treafuror shall receive ftom the chief coiner all
the coins which shall have been, struck, and shall pay or deliver
them to the persons refpe&ively to whom the fame ought to be
paid or delivered : He shall moreover receive and fafely keep ail
monies whith shall be tor the use, maintenance and support of the
mint, and shall dlfburfe the 'lame upon warrants figticd by the
direttor.
, Slc. 4. And be it further enabled, That every officer and clerk
of the fa id taiihf, shall, b fore he enters upon the execution of his
©ffice, take an »ai h or affirmation before some judge of the United
States, faithfully and diligently to perform the duties thereof.
Sec. And be it further ena&cd, That the said aflayer, chief
coiner and treasurer, previously to entering upon the execution ot
their refpt&ive offices, shall each become bound to the United
States of America, with one or more sureties, to the fatisfaftion
of the Secretary of the Treasury, in the sum of ten thousand dol
lars, with condition for ihe faithful and diligent performance of
the duties of his office.
Sec. 6. And be it further enabled, That there shall be allowed
and paid as compensations for their refpc&ivc service the said
dire&or, a yearly salary of two thousand dollars; to the said af
faycr, 3 yearly salary of one thousand five hundred dollars ; to the
said chief coiner, a yearly salary ot one thousand five hundred
dollars ; to the said eng'raver, a yearly ,salary of one thousand two
hundred dollars ; to the said treasurer, a yearly salary of one
thousand two hundred dollars; to each clerk who may be em
ployed, a yearly salary not exceeding five hundred dollars; and to
the several subordinate workmen and servants, such wages and al
lowances as are cuftor.iary and reasonable, according to their re
fpeftivc ftaiions and occupations.
Sec. 7. And be it Imthcr enacted, That the accounts of the
officers and persons employed in and about the said mint, and for
services performed in relation thereto, and all other accounts con
cerning the bufiuefs and administration thereof, shall be adjufled
and fettled in the treasury department of the United States ; and a
quarter yearly account of the receipts and difpurfements of the
said mint shall he rendered at the said treasury tor settlement, ac
cording to such forms and regulations as shall been prelcrib
cd by thatdepartinerit; and that once in each year a report ot ihe
tranfaflions of the said mint, accompanied by an abftratt ot the
fcttlements which fhail have been from time to time made, duly
certified bv the Comptroller of the Treasury, fhall'be laid before
Congrcfs tor their information.
Saturday, Aphil 14, 1792.
Src. 8. And be it further ena&ed, That in addition to the au
thority vcfted in the Prefidcnt of the United States by a resolution
of the last feflion, touching the engaging of artists, and the procur
ing of apparatus for the said mint, the President be authorized* and
he is hereby authorized to cause to be provided and put in proper
condition such buildings, and in such manner as (hall appear to
him requisite for the purpose of carrying on the business of the
fatd mint; and that as well the expenses which (hall have betn in
curred pursuant to the said resolution, as those which may be in
curred in providing and preparing the said buildings, and all other
expenses which may hereafter accrue for the maintenance and sup
port of the said mint, and in carrying on the business thereof, over
and above the fuins which may be received by rcafon of the rate
per centum for coinage herein after mentioned, shall be defrayed
from the Treasury of the United States, out of any monies which
from time to time shall be therein, not otherwise appropriated.
Sec. g. And be. it. further enabled, That there shall be from
time to time struck and coined at the said mint, coins of gold,
silver and coppter, of the following denominations, values and dc
fcriptions, viz. Eagles—each to be of the value of ten dollars
or units, and to contain two hundred and fortv-feven grains and
four eighths of a grain of pure, or two hundred and leventy grains
of standard gold. Half Eagles—each to be of the value of
five dollars, and to contain one hundred and twenty-three grains
and fix eighths of a gram of pure, or one hundred and thirty-five
grains of standard gold. Quarter Eagles—each to be of the
value of two dollars and a half dollar, and to contain hxty-one
grains and seven eighths of a grain of pure, or sixty-seven grains
and four eighths of a grain of standard gold. Dollars or
Units—each to be of the value of a Spanish milled dollar as the
fame is now current, and to contain three hundred and seventy-one
grains and four sixteenth parts of a grain of pure, or four hundred
and sixteen grains of standard silver. Half Dol l ars—each to
be of half the value ©f the dollar or unit, and to contain one hun
dred and eighty-five grains and ten sixteenth parts of a grain of
pure, or two hundred and eight grains of standard silver. Quar
ter Dollars—each to be of one fourth the value ot the dollar
or unit, and to contain ninety-two grains and tnirteen sixteenth
parts of a grain of pure, or one hundred and four grains Ot standard
hlver. Dismes—each to be of the value of one tenth of a dollar
or unit, and to contain thirty-seven grains and two sixteenth parts
of a. grain, of pure, or forty-one grains and three fifth parts of a
grain of standard silver. Half Dismes —each to be of the value
of one twentieth of a dollar, and to contain eighteen grains and
nine sixteenth parts of a grain of pure, or twenty grains and four
fifth parts of a grain of standard silver. Cents—each to be of
the value of the one hundredth part of a dollar, and to contain
eleven penny-weights of copper. Half Cents—each to be of
the value of half a cent, and to contain five penny-weights and
half a penily-wcight of copper.
Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That upon the said coins
refpeftively, There (hall be the following devices and legends,
namely : Upon one fide of each of the said coins, there shall be
an impression emblematic of liberty, with an infeription of the
word Liberty, and the year of the coinage; and upon there- J
verse of each ot the gold and silver coins, there fhali be the figure
or representation of an Eagle, with this inferiptipn, u Unitej>
States of America," and upon the reverse of each of the
copper coins, there shall be an infeription which shall eXpTefs the
denomination of the piece, namely, cent or half cent, as ti.e cafe
may require.
Sec. ii. And be it further enacted, That the proportional va
lue of gold to silver in all coins which (hall by law be current as
money within the United States, shall be as fifteen to one, ac
cording to quantity in weight, ot pure gold or pure silver ; that is
to fay, every fifteen pounds weight of pure silver shall be of equal
valise in all payments, with one pound weight of pure gold, and
so in proportion as to any greater or less quantities of the respec
tive metals.
Sec. 12. And be it furtherenafted, That trie standard for all
gold coins of the United States, shall be eleven parts fine to one
part alloy ; and accordingly that eleven parts in twelve of the
entire weight of each of the said coins (hall consist of pure goid,
and the remaining one twelfth part of alloy ; and the said aJoy
(hall be composed of silver and copper, in such proportions not
exceeding one halt silver as (hall be found convenient; to be re
gulated by the Director or the mint, tor the time being, with
the approbation of the President of the United States, until fur
ther provision lhall be made by law. And to the end that the nr
ceflary information may be had in order to the making of such
further provision, it (hall be the duty of the Dire&or of the mm!,
at the expiration of a year after commencing the operations of the
said mint, to report to Congress the practice thereof during the
said year, touching the composition of the alloy of the fsid gold
coins, the reasons for such practice, and the experiments and ob
servations which (hall have been made concerning the efte&s oi
different proportions of silver and eopper in the said alloy.
Sec. 13. And be it further enacted, That the standard for all
silver coins of the United States, shall be one thousand four hun
dred and eighty-five parts fine to one hundied and seventy-nine
parts alloy ; and accordingly that one thousand four hundred and
eighty five parts in one thousand fix hundred and sixty four
parts of the entire weight of each of the said coins shall consist of
pure silver, and the remaining one hundred and seventy nine parts
of alloy ; which allov shall be wholly of copper.
Sec! 14. And be it further enaded, That it shall be lawful
for any person or persons to bring to the said mint gold and silver
bullion, in order to their being coined ; and that the bullion so
brought shall be there aflayed arid coined as speedily as may be
afterlhe receipt thereof, and that free of expense to the person or
persons by whom the fame shall have been brought. And as soon
as the said bullion shall have been coined, the peifon or persons
by whom the fame lhall have been deliveied, shall upon demand
receive in lieu thereof coins of the fame (pecics ol bullion which
shall have been so delivered, weight for weight, of the pure gold
or pure silver therein contained : Provided nevertheless, that it
final I be at the mutual option of the party or parties bringing such
bullion, and of the Director of the said mint, to make an immc
dtate exchange of coins for standard bullion, with a deduaion of
one half per cent from the weight of the pure gold, or pure silver
contained in die said bullion , as an indemnification to the mint
for the time which will necessarily be required for coining the
said bullion, and for the advance which .hall have been so made
in coins And it shall be th,e duty of the Secretary of the I rea
fury to furnifh the said mint from time to time whenever the
state of the Treasury will admit thereof, with such fuins as may
be n?ceflary for effecting the said exchanges, to be replaced as
speedily as may be ou'.ot the coins which shall have been made
of the bullion for which the monies so furmfhed fhal! have oeen
401
tib&o
[Whole No. 509.]
exchanged ; and the said dedu£lion of one half per cent. fli«tll
conftituie a fund towards defraying the expenses of the said mifu.
Sec. 15. And be it further ena&ed, That the bullion which
shall be brought as afortfaid to the mint to be coined, (hail be
coined, and the equivalent thereof in coins rendered, if demand
ed, in the order in which the said bullion fhal! have been brought
or delivered, giving priority according to priority of delivery on
ly, and without preference to any peifonor persons ; and it any
preference shall be given contrary to the dire&ion aforefaid, the
officer by whom such undue preference shall be given, shall 111
each cafe forfeit and pay one thousand dollars ; to be recovered
with cods of suit. And to the end that it may be known if such
preference shall at any time be given, the alTayer or officer to
whom the said bullion shall be delivered to be coined, shall give
to the person or persons bringing the fame, a memorandum in
writing under his hand, denoting the weight, finenefs and value
thereof, together with the day and order of its delivery into the
mint.
Sic. 16. And be it further enatted, That all the gold and sil
ver coins which shall have been struck at, and issued from the said
mint, shall be lawful tender in all payments whatsoever, thofeof
full weight according to the refpeftive values herein before de
clared, and those of less than full weight at values proportional to
their respectiVe- weights.
Sec. 17. Ajtd be it further enabled, That it shall be the doty
of the refpettive officers of the fa id mint, carefully and faithfully
to use their best endeavors that all the gold and (ilver coins which
shall be struck at the said mint shall be, as nearly as may be, con
formable to the several (land a ids and weights aforefaid, and that
the copper whereof the cents and half cents aforefaid may be
composed, (hall he of good quality,
Sec. 18. And the better to fccure a due conformity of the said
old and silver coins to their refpeftive standards, Be it further
na£ted, That from every fcparate mass of standard gold or filver #
which (hall be made into coins at the said hunt, there (hall be
aken, set apart by the Trealurer and rcferved in his custody a
ertain number of pieces, not less than three, and that oncc in
ivery year the pieces so set apart and sieved, (hall be allayed
inder the infpettion of the Chief Judice the United States, the
Secretary and Comptroller of the , the Secretary tor the
Department of State, and tin Alio .cral of the United
Mates (who are hereby required to - cl ior that purpose at the
raid mint, on the last Monday in Jul} ar.h year) or under the
infpetlion of any three of them, i. ai ncr as they or a ma
jority of them lhall dire£fc, and prefenCc of t te director, af
fayer and chief coiner of the said mint; and if it 'iall be found
that the gold and silver so assayed, (hall not be infeiior to their
refpettive standards herein before declared .bre than one pan in
one hundred and fort/ four parts, the offic » or officers of the laid
mint whom it mdy concern shall be he'd ej:c«feable ; but if any
greater inferiority (hall appear, it (h 1 tifnd to the President
of the United States, and the said oiheer - ofiiccrs (ball be deem
ed difqualified to hold their refpe&ur* offices.
Sec. 19. And be it further envied, ( hat if any of the gold or
silver coins which (hall be struck or coined at the said mint (hall
be debated or made woife, as tvj the propoition of fine gold or
.:ne silver therein contained, ff>r f; 11 be of less weight or value
than the fame ought to be pu (nam to the dire&ions of this adt,
through the default or with the confluence of any of the officers
,or persons who (hall be employed at the said mint, for the
purpose of profit or gain, or otherwise with a fraudulent intent*
and if any of the said officers or pcfons (hall embezzle any of the
metals which shall at any time be committed to their charge for
the purpose of being coined, or any of the coins which (hall be
struck or coined at tho said mint ever fuc or per foil who
shall commit any or either of the said offences, ihali be deemed
guilty of felony, and (hall fu.Ter death.
Sec. 20. And be it further ena&cd, That the money of ac
count of the United States, inall be exprefled in doilaisor units,
difmes or tenths, cents or hundredths and milles or thousandths,
a diftncbeing the tenth part ot a dollar,a cent the hundredth part
of a dollar, a mille the thousandth part of ? dollar, and that all
accounts in the public offices and all proceeding of the courts of
the United States (hall be kept and had in conformity to this it
gulation.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of Reprejentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejidcnt of the United States,
and Vrejidenl oj the Senate.
APPROV ED APRIL THE SECOND, 1792.
PHILADELPHIA.
ENERAL St. CLAIR has resigned the com
v-X maud of the army, and we have been favor
ed with the following copies of letters that pafl
ed between the Prefidenc of the United States
and the General upon that occalion.
Philadelphia, March 26, I 792.
Sir,
I BEG leave to offer you my unfeigned thanks
for the honor conferred upon me, by the appoint
ment to the command of the army of the United
States the last campaign. Though that campaign
was unfortunate, I am not confjrious thac any
thing within my power to have produced a more
happy iff'ue was negledlea. As J was prompted
to accept that command by no motives of either
ambition or interest, but by a fervent wilh to be
of service to my country, and a belief, perhaps
too fondly entertained, that I could be so— tliac
I am led to decline it in future, proceeds neither
from disgust nor disappointment.
Having been much afflidled with sickness dur
ing nearly the whole of the campaign, though I
flatter niyfelf the public interefls did not fuffer
by it, and though my health is now tolerably re
(lored, my constitution has received a very severe
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prejtdent of the United States.shock, and I might not again be able to go thro'
the weight of business which neceflarily follows
the command of an army.
Although, Sir, I am myfelf perfuacled that e
very thing was done, in the course of the lalt
campaign, ihat could be done on my part, fully
to answer the public expectation. yet it is denied
by fonie, doubted by many, and known to but
few out of the army. A wish to retftify the pub
lic opinion, and a duty that I conceive I owe to
myfelf; induce me to request that an inquiry in
to my conduct may be instituted : when that is
over, I may hope to be permitted to resign the
commission of Major-General, which 1 now hold.
Should the result of the enquiry be that, in any
instance, the duties of my station were negleit
ed, or that 1 did not improve every hour and e
very opportunity to the belt advantage, or that
the operations of the army, after it was in a con
dition to operate ; were delated one moment in
consequence of my illnels, I fliall patiently sub
mit to the merited censure.
To whoever may be appointed my successor, 1
lhall be happy, Sir, to give every light and in
formation my situation, as General of the army,
or as governor of the Western Territory, put in
my power to obtain, and to evince to you, Sir,
and to the world, that the confidence you were
plea fed to repose in me, was not mifplatfed.'
With every sentiment of gratiude, of respect,
and, allow me to add, of affection, I have the
honor to be, Sir,
Your mod obedient fcrvant,
ARTHUR StCLAIR-
The President of the United States^
United States, March 28th, 1792.
Sir,
YOUR knowledge of'the country north-weft
of the Ohio, and of the resources for an army in
its vicinity, added to a full confidence in your m : -
Jitary charatfter, founded on mature experience,
induced my nomination of you to the command
ips the troops on the frontiers.
Your desire of redHfying any errors of the pub
lic opinion, relatively to your conduct, by an in
vestigation of a court of enquiry, is highly lau
dable, and would be readily complied with,were
the meafur'e praJiloable.—But a total deficiency
of l'grvice, of competent rank
to forjn aflkal fuu't, for that purpose, precludes
the pow4(Pgratilying your wishes on tlieocca
fion.
The intinv. in jfyonr readiness to afford your
successor all the tv foi mation of which you are
capable, although linjieceffary for my personal
convicftion, must be regarded as an additional e
vidence of the goodness of your heart, and of
your attachment to yoi'.r country.
I am, Sir, •
With eiieem and regard,
You' iT!--ft obedient servant,
G. WASHINGTON.
Major-Genrra) Arthur Sr. Clair.
Philadelphia, March 31ft, 1792.
Sir,
1 HAVE intl the honor to receive your letter
of the 28th inft. While I lament that circum
stances preve." ai into my condudt,
by a court of 1 uiry, I cannot but acquiesce in
the reasons you have aliigned why it cannot take
place ; and 1 beg leave to present my thanks for
the desire to have gratified me, had it been prac
ticable, which you have been pleased to manifeft.
In my letter of the 26th, I exprefled an inten
tion of retiring from the army, when the enqui
ry ihould be over.—The only reason T had for
wishing to retain my commilfion until that time
was, that if any inifcondudt should appear in the
eourfe of the enquiry, I might be amenable to a
court-martial, which a resignation would have
precluded. The House of Representatives: Sir,
have diredied an enquiry into the caufcs of the
failure of the last campaign to be made by a com
mittee of their own body :—the fame reason that
influenced me when a court of enquiry was con
templated, operates now with equal force, and
■therefore it may be proper that 1 Ihould still re
tain iny cnniniillion bur, as it will soon be re
quisite that some person should be at the head of
the army who is to continue to command ir, it is
necessary, Sir, that I fliould inform you explicit
ly, which I now do, of my fixed resolution to re
sign the moment the enquiry is finifhed, should
no fault be found, that any embarraflrnent which
may exist, with refpedi to providing a fucceflbr
for me, may be removed.
Be pleased, Sir. to observe that my sole objert
is to give effect to public iuftice, in the usual
way by a court-martial, should it appear that, in
any manner whatsoever, the misfortunes ofthelalt
campaign can be attributed to me ; and it is the
proper, and I believe the only tribunal, where
military crimes and mifcondutft can be enquired
into and puniflied ; or where an officer's reputa
tion, infinitely dearer than life, can be vindicat
ed.— Should the public service, however, require
that another officer of the fame rank with me be
appointed immediately, I am ready to make the
vefignation forthwith, notwithflanding that it
may feern to proceed, and at a distance will be
supposed to have arisen, from a sense that the
volume of calumny and defamation, which is
daily pouring from the press into the public ear,
has too much foundation for me to meet it,—that
1 (brink from the consequences and chufetofhel
ter myfelf in a private Nation :—I am ready, Sir,
upon this occasion, as 1 have been upon all others,
to facrifice every private and personal feeling
and consideration to the public good.
1 have the honor to be, Sir,
Your molt obedient servant,
ARTHUR ST. CLAIR
ThePRESiDENT of the United States.
United States, April i,th, I 792
Sir,
I HAVE read and duly considered your letter
of the 31ft ultimo.
The reasons you offer for retaining your com
mission, until an opportunity Ihould be presented,
if nerell'ary, of investigating your conduct in
every mode prefcribjed by law, would be conclu
sive with me, under any other circumllances than
the present.
Bui the eftablilhment of the troops allows on
ly of one Major-General. You have nianifefted
your intention of retiring, and the efl'enrial in
terests of thepublic require that yoor fucceflor
iliould be immediately appointed in order to re
pair to the frontiers.
As the Honfe of Representatives have been
pleased to institute an enquiry into the causes of
the failure of the late expedition, 1 should hope
an opportunity would thereby be afforded you
of explaining your conduift, in a manner fatisfac
tory to the public and yourfelf.
I am, Sir,
With esteem and regard,
Your moil obedient servant,
G. WASHINGTON.
Major-General Arthur St. Clair.
• Sir,
I HAVE had the honor to receive your letter
of the 4th instant.
Although 1 was very desirous, Sir, to hold the
commiHion of Major General until the enquiry
by the committee of the Honfe of Representa
tives should be over, for the reasons I assigned,
and which you are pleased to think have some
weight—yet the necessity of the officer being ap
pointed who is to command the troops, in order
to his repairing to the frontiers, is certainly
prefling, and ought to silence with me every wifti
of a mere personal nature. Ido therefore, Sir,
now formally resign the appointment of Major-
General.
I have never, Sir, entertained a doubt that an
enquiry into the causes of the failure of the late
expedition, whether directed particularly to my
conduct, or to that connected with other causes
that may have operated in whatever way it might
be conducted, would not prove honorable tome,
and fatisfatfory to the public, as far as I was con
cerned with it ; but setting, as I do, a due value
upon the public opinion, and desirous not to lose
that place in the elteeni of the virtuous and in
telligent of my fellow citizens which I have long
held, you will not wonder that, under existing
circumstances, a degree of anxiety, not only that
there ftiould be an enquiry, but that every thing
capable of being misconstrued, fliould be avoid
ed or. my part. I will own to you, Sir, that the
desire of honest fame has ever been the ftrongelt
paflion in my breast : I have thought that I had
merited it, and it is all that I have to compensate
for the facrifice of a very independent situation,
and the best years of my life devoted to the pub
lic service, and the faithful application of my ta
lents, such as they were, in every situation in
which I have been placed, with a zeal bordering
upon enthusiasm. I trust, Sir, J fliall still enjoy
it, while those who have attempted to disturb it,
will be forgotten, or remembered with indigna
tion, and in their bosoms, if they have feeling,
sensations may arise something similar to what
Milton has described to have seized upon Satan
when he discovered our firft parents in Paradise.
With every sentiment of refped: and duty,
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,
ARTHUR St. CLAIR
The President of the United States.
Last Tuefdav the following gentlemen were ele&ed AMermert
in the room of the late F. Hopkinfon, Esq. and Samuel Powel
and W. Collady, Efqu ires, who had jefigned, viz.
Jonathan Bayard Smith,)
Michael Hillegas, and > Esquires.
Francis Gurney, )
The following gentlemen were ele&ed Common Council-
Men, viz.
Mordecai Lewi, John Wood, Bc.tjamin Chew, jun. James
Millegan, Isaac Snowden, John Stille, William Wells, Law
rence Scckel, Joseph Norris, Richard Fullerton, Jacob Schrciner,
John Montgomery, Philip Wager, Edward Bartho'omew, Samuel
M. Fox, John Craig, James Abercrombie, Robert Wain, Robert
Ralfton, Robert Smith, John C. Stocker, ]ohn Perot, George
Bckham, David Jackson, Frederick Kuhl, James C. Fifacr,
Godfrey Hags,' William Van Phul, Tacobß. Howell, and Robert
Wharton, Esquires.
402
Philadelphia, April 7, 1792
CONGRESS.
IN S E N A T £.—April, 1792.
The Committee an the fubjed of Weights <ani
Measures, Repwt, thut it is thtir
*• standard for the meafuresand weights
A of the United States, be a uniform cy
lindrical rod of iron, of such length as in lati
tude 45 0 in the level of the ocean, and in a cel.
lar of uniform natural temperature, fliall per .
form its vibrations in final! and equal arcs in*
one second of mean time. '
2. That the President of the United States be
requested to have such a standard rod provided :
that it be prepared with all the accuracy whicl*
the importance of the objetfl merits and rircum«
stances admit ; —that this be done by adlugl ex
periments, under the parallel of 45 0 of latitude
complete, or by acftual experiments, rectified by
due allowances, under any other parallel, where
a superiority of means for accurate experiment
may promise on the whole greater truth in the
result.
3. 1 hat the expences of the measures he (hall
adopt for this purpose, not exceeding dol
lars, be defrayed by the public.
4. That the standard rod so to be provided,
fliall be divided into five equal parts, one of
which to be called a foot, fliall be the unit of
measures of length for the United States.
That the foot /hall be divided into 10 inches.
The inch into 10 lines,
The line into ro points, and
That 10 feet make a decad,
10 decads a rod,
10 rods a furlong,
And 10 furlongs a mile.
5- That measures of furface in the United
States, be made by fqnares of the measures of
length ; and that in the cafe of lands, the unit
fliall be a square, whereof every fide fliall be an
hundred feet, to be called a rood.
That each rood be divided into tenths and
hundredths.
That io roods make a double acre,
And ten double acres a square furlong.
6. That the unit of measures of capacity, in
the United States, be a cubic foot to-be called a
bu/hel ;
That each bufliel be divided into ten pottlei,
Each pottle into 10 demi pints,
Each demi pint into 10 metres ;
That io bufliels be a quarter,
And io quarters a last or double ton.
7. Thatthe unit of weightsofthe United States,
be a cubic inch of rain water, to be called ail
ounce, and to be measured and weighed in a cel
lar of uniform natural temperature ;
That the ounce be divided into io double fcrn-
pies,
The double scruple into 10 carats,
The carat into 10 minims ordemi grains,
The minim into 10 mites ;
That 10 ounces make a pound,
10 pounds a stone,
10 stones a kental,
io kentals a hogshead.
The consideration of this report is poftpened
until the next Session of Congress.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
WEDNESDAY, APRIL ir. '
The memorial of T. Fielder, inventor of an
apparatus to facilitate navigation, praying t ,c
aid of Congress to carry his projetft into eX " u
tion, was read and ordered to lie on the ta e,
as was also a memorial from thecommiflionerso
the city and county of Philadelphia, refpe ' n S
compensation for the use of the cityjail - an
memorial from the merchants of New->oik, ' e
monftrating againrt the proposed augnientatio
of the import duties.
A memorial from the inhabitants of the tow
of Cincinnati and Columbia, on the littlei > I,]] •
was referred to a feletfl committee.
A memorial was read, from Signor Giu f PP
Ceracchi (the Roman artist, who execute
bust of liberty over The Speaker's chair) e »
forth that he is ready to enter upon t " BeX ,. jj
tion of a design for the national nlo " unl r ent '™ c (' er .
he foine time ago laid before Congress. _
red, together with his former memorial, to
Gerry, Benfon, Lee, Murray and Tucker.
Presented by the committee of e,ir """ ,en R '.|i
signed bv The Speaker, the Representation
and the bill foraltering the times of ho' ett
Circuit Courts in certain diftritfts of t ie
StatesMr. Secretary Otis delivered a mefiage, noti
fvinc the House, that the Senate had concurred
in passing the bill to indemnify tlie Truitees or
Wilmington Academy.
Mr. Fitzlimons reported a bill for rai ling a tui -
ther Cum of money for the prorecftioii of the tron
tjers vvhicli was twice read, and referred to a
committee of the whole, on Fric'-cy next -
An cngrofled bill to indemnify the ertate ot
the late Major-General Greene, was read a third
time, and, after a debate of foine length, palled—
ayes 33, nocv 24 —as follow :
; AYES.
Mettrs. Ames, Baldwin, Barnwell, Benfon, S.
Bourne, B. Bourne, Fi.ndley, Fitzlimons, Gerry,
Giles, Gregg, (Jriffin, Hartley, He.fter, Key,
Kittera, Lawrance, Learned, Lee, Livermore,
Madison, Mercer, Muhlenberg, Murray Page,
Parker, W. Smith, Stenett, Thatcher, Venable,
Vinins, Wadfwortli, Willis—33.
6 NOES.
MeflTrs. Afhe, Boudinot, Brown, dark Good
hue, Gordon, Grove, Hillboufe, Jacobs, Kitchell,
Macon, Moore, Niles, Schoonmaker, Seney, J.
Smith, I. Smith, Steele, Sturges, Sumpter, 1 read
well, Ward, White, Williamlon—24.
The House proceeded to the further confideia
tion of the two additional fedlions proposed by
the Senate to the Militia Bill.
The power proposed to be delegated to the
President, of calling out the Militia to quell in
furredtions, &c. occasioned a warm debate, winch
wasfupported to a late hour, when the House,
without taking the question, adjourned.
THURSDAY, April 12.
After rejding petitions, the House proceeded
in the conideration of the two fe«ftions proposed
by the Senate to be added to the mil.t.a bill viz.
" And \e it further enaCled, That the Presi
dent of the United States is hereby authonfed
to call out the militia, or such part thereof, as
the exigence may in his opinion require, to exe
cute the laws of the Union, fupprels infurrerti
ons and repel invasions. And when Militia are
employed in the service of the United States.they
lhall receive the fame pay and allowances as are
now made to the troops in service.
« And be it further enadted, That if any oiti
«er or prirate soldier of the militia, being order
ed into the service of the United States, pursu
ant to the power herein given, shall relufe obe
dience to such orders, he (hall forfeit to the life
of the United States, a funi not exceeding the a
mount of one year's pay of such officer or soldier
refpecfiively, as herein eftablilhed. And the Mi
litia, while in the service of the United States,
shall be fubje<ft to the rules and articles of war :
Provided, that the courts martial, by whom they
shall be fubjec r t to be tried, shall be composed en
tirely of militia officers of the fame state with the
offenders."
Several amendments were proposed to the hilt
fedion, and disagreed to.
An amendment, proposed by Mr. Fitzfimons,
limiting the President's power of calling out the
militia to the end of the next fellion of Congress,
was agreed to—ayes 37, "°es 20—as follow :
AYES.
Meflrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot, S.
Bourne, B. Bourne, Clark, Fitzfimons, Gilinan,
Goodhue, Gregg;, Griffin, Hartley, Heilter, Hill
lioufe, Huger, Kitchell, Kittera,Lawrance, Leai li
ed, Lee, Madison, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray,
Niles, Sen'ey, Sheredine, J. Smith, Sterret, Syl
vester, Thatcher, Treadwell, Wadl'worth, Ward,
Tucker, Vining—37.
NOES.
Messrs. A Ihe, Baldwin, Gerry, Giles, Grove,
Key, Livermore, Macon, Mercer, Page, Parker,
Schoonmaker, I. Smith, W. Smith, Steele, Stur
ges, Sumpter, Venable, White, Withs—2o. v
On the qneftipn to ag ee to the nrft section or
the Senate, with this amendment, the ayes and
• noes being demanded, are—ayes 24, noes 37
as follow :
Meflrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, S. 3ourne,
B. Bobrne, Fitzfimons, Findley, Oilman, Good
line, Gordon, Gregg, Hartley, Hillhoufe, fcittera,
Lawrance, Learned, W. Smith, J- Smith,_ Ster
rett, Sybefter, Thatcher, Wadlworth, Ward,
Vining— 24.
noes.
MeflTrs. Afhe,Baldwin, Boudinot, Brown, C ark,
Gerry, Giles, Griffin, Grove, Heifter, Hiwjer,
Key, Kitchell, Lee, Livermore, Macon, Madion,
Mercer, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Nifes,
Page, Parker, Sheredine, Seney, Schoonniaktr,
I. Smith, Steele, Sturges, Sumpter,Treadwel!,
Tucker,Venable, White, Willis,Wilhamfon— y,.
Mr. Bourne, of the committee of enrolment
reported, that the committee had examined the
Confnlnr Bill, and the Wilmington Academy Bill,
and fouud the fame duly enrolled.
A ineflage was received from the Preudent of
the United States by Mr. Secretary Lear, notify
ing the Honfe that an ast for ascertaining the
bounds of a tract of land purchaied by John
Cleves Symmes, has reccWed his approbation and
signature.
AYES
The acl regulating procefles in the courts of
the United States, &c. with certain amendments
reported by a select committee, was referred to
a committee of the whole to morrow.
A motion by Mr. Gerry was agreed to:—That
a committee be appointed to report a bill for
calling forth the militia, to sup
press i nfurrei'tions, &c.
Mr. J. Smith informed the House that the com
mittee of enrolment had this day laid before
the President of the United States, for his appi o
bation, the Wilmington Academy Bill—the Re
presentation, and the Consular Bill.
In committee of the whole on the bill to direifl
the settlement of a certain claim of the Hate of
Maryland. —Mr. B. Bourne in the chair.
This claim was for a sum of money paid by the
{late of Maryland in discharge of a bond given
by an officer of the late army of the United
States, for a purchase made on account of the
United States.—This bill being opposed, the com
mittee came to no decision, but rose and reported
progress. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, April 13.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed
the House, that the President of the United States had notified the
Senate that he had approved and signed the following Acts :
An ast supplemental to the ast for the eftabliihment and support
of light-houses, beacons and buoys—An ast for fixing the com
pensations of the door-keepers of both Houses of Congress—And
an ast for building a light-house on Montuk Point, in the state of
New-Yoik.
In committee of the whole on the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury refpefting alterations in the excise law. Mr. Seney in
the Chair.
Mr. Fitzfimons laid on the table sundry resolutions for modify
ing the law—these resolutions were read by the chairman—a mo
tion for the committee to rife in erder to releiing them to a fele£l
committee for the purpose of reporting a bill, occasioned some
debate, and was at length negatived—the committee then proceed
ed in the difcuflion of the resolutions, and agreed to the fame with
sundry amendments—whii.h were reported to the House—A mo
tion was then made and carried, that these resolutions Ihould be
printed for the ufc of the members.
A mefTage was received from the President of the United States
by Mr. Secretary Lear, transmitting to the House the copy of a
communication from the Miniflcr Plenipotentiary of Great-Bri
tain to the Secretary of State, relative to the commerce of the
two countries.
Several letters that pal Ted between the Secretary of State and the
3riti(h Minister, refpe&ing a determination on the part of the
Briiifti Government, to carry their navigation a£t into execution,
were read—the result was an explanation on the pan of the British
Minister, by which it appears that the prohibition of American
veflels from entering the ports of Guernsey and Jersey, is alone
contemplated by his Government!
The Secretary also informed the House, that the bill to com
penfatc the Trvjftees of the public grammar school, and academy
of Wilmington; for damages sustained during the late war, had
received the President's approbation and signature.
A petition of William Heyburn, an invalid, was read—Rating
that an application made by him to the Circuit Court of the Unit
ed States, agreeable to a late law, had been rejeftcd by the court;
and praying relief.
Mr. Boudinot informed the House that the Court conhdered
the law lately palled for the relief of invalid pensioners, so far as
it refpeOs the judges, as unconstitutional—and therefore refufed
to execute it.
On motion of Mr. W. Smith, after conliderable debate.a com
mittee of five was appointed to enquire into the state of fa&s set
forth in the petition of William Heyburn, and to leport to the
House. Adjourned till Monday.
Philadelphia, April 14.
Lad Tuesday the Afferably of this Sute adjourned Jlnc die, hav.
in§ paffcd 46 A£ls during the feflion, v
Measures are pursuing by the English East-India Company, to
.nport fugarsfrom the Ealf-Indies-from which country plenty
may be obtained without any previous notice. In the empire of
Cochin China, immense quantities are raised by the hands of free
men, and fold, according to an account in the traveh of a French
philosopher, at a cheaper late than that cultivated by slaves.
A high handed robbery was committed last month in thehoufe
of Judge Carle, Morris-County (N. J.) by three villains ; two of
which have been since taken.
According to a late decree of the National Ailembly ot France,
there is no travelling for dangers in that country without a pass
port.
Some opinions having been circulated in France, that attempts
would be made to new model the Conllitution, a fpiritcd decree
has been parted to counteract such a design.
In the Dutch Colony of Surinam, according to an account pub
lished in the American Apollo—there are about 3,10 c whites and
43,000 slaves, the plantations contain from 500 to 2000 acres each
— and are 550 in number ; they produce annually about 16,000
hhds of iugar—i2,ooo,ooolbs. coffee, 700,0001b5. cocoa—and
850, ooolb?. cotton. The number of regular troops in this colony
is 1600—and a corps of 250 free negroes.
A London paper fays, " We rejoice in the information of the
promptitude of the Americans toaffiftthe inhabitants of St. Do
mingo ; like their brethren of England, they have exhibited to
the world a noble generosity, and a determination to promote the
peace and prosperity of mankind.
Some curious persons in'th# North of England, have just stated
the probability of making Sugar from the Birch tree ; the juice ol
which is so much more copious and sweeter than that of the Mapje
tree of America, that it has afforded a pleasant wine for many
years.
Extraß of a letter from a gentleman in India, to his father in Neto.
York, dated Canton, December 9, 1791, received by the .Vafhington,
dpt. Hodghinfon. .
" In my lad I omitted to give you an account of the war in
India, between the English and T.ppoo Saib, the son and succes
sor of the late Hyder Ally, and one of the mod powerful Prin
ces in it. The commencement of it was in March, 1790, tn con
sequence of an attack on a Prince in alliance with the Englilh.
General Meadows, who is Governor ot Madras, took the com
mand of the army from that quarter, and in April, moved to at
tack the enemy in their own country, which is separated from
the Carnatick by a chain of mountains called the Ghauts, which
have but lew narrow passes, deemed impafTable, without it is ac
quired by stratagem.—Aster a number of mifcarnages on our part,
coufequence of a treasonable correspondence being earned on
during .he whole campaign, by a native Check >n our ferv.ee, tn
orming the enemy of every movement to be made. Meadows
vas obliged to return to Madras. Lord fiom Bengal,
403
immediately took tlie command. The above correfpondm e
coming to light, proved fuccefsful to Lord Cornwalhs, wno avail
ed himfelf of it, by sparing the author's life to carry on the cor
refpondcnce as before, and direst the enemy to guard a dilierent
pals, which was pretended would be entered on a certain day ;
by which means our army, when w-:s in the enemy's
country, and soon joined by molt of the neighbouring princes.
Lord Cnrnwallis, fecondcd by Meadows, soon loiind tliey were at
the head of nearly one hundred thousand, horse and foot, includ
ing ten thousand Europeans, and the native troops employed by
the Lnclilh, little interior to them. Their movements soon com
menced towards the enemy's capital, which lies nearly in the cen
tre of the country ; in their way towards it, every thing ft ll—the
second city among the number; and alter an oblfuute action in
last May, Tippoo was obliged to (hut himfelt up in it. The pe
riodical rains then setting in very levere, put a Hop to further pro
ceedings oil our part *, fiiice that, I have not acquired further in
formal ion.
" When the campaign again opens, Gen. Abercrombie, Go
vernor of Bombay, will be ready with about 10,000effc&iye men,
to join the grand army. And by the time I reacn India, it is my
opinion a decisive stroke mull be struck, or it never will. It is
reduced to a certainty that the views of the English is to extirpate
Tippoo, and rid themfelvesof a troublesome enemy, as well as to
acquire more territory, besides the riddance ot a tyrant to man
kind in general—such is his character.
41 Although I freely venture my opinion in juflice to 1 ippoo,
I think he will not be an easy conquest. He is at the head ot an
immense army,a great general and politician, who hath been bred
in the field and cabinet, from his infancy, and pertedly acquaint
ed with all the arts of war, conformable to the European mode,
and what is more, fighting for life and empiie ; The toi mcr mult
ensue firft, as he never will submit to the latter, while it remains,
is the opinion of people in general, either by the hand of his ene
my or his own. If opportunity will permit when I arrive at
Bombay, I will write you all particulars.
Eye trad of a Utter from a gentleman in Caciicounty, State of Maryland,
J / " ' rt \
so a gentleman in Wilmington (D.)
« A great deal of bulintfs was doneatthe March Term—the
docket, grown to an immense size, by the irregularity of fotmer
proceedings, is now reduced to a few actions. Another court
will clear it of the rubbish—the good effects of our new judiciary.
Two causes of great importance io the intercfts of humanity, wete
tried : Mrs, and her son—were found guilty of, and tor
their cruelty to negroes. The firft was charged with unneceffai y
whipping, Malting and burning her negro woman. The burns
were infli&ed with a red hot (hovel, on parts which modelty foi
bids mentioning. The son was indided for inhumanely beating
a negro woman with a targe stick. The Lady was fined £ 50—
and the Young Gentleman £ 5. —The r.ofts will be very heavy.
« Another cause of no less consequence to the community, was
tried and decided ; I mean the indictment against Squire •
for extortion.—The charge was fully proved ; and notwithiland
ing the number and ability of his counsel, the jury had no difficul
ty in finding him guilty. He has moved an arrest of judgment
the argument is poftponcd to next court Our friend —— fays
the indictment will hold good."
T ere 35 ca fy jo find competent financiers, as it is fault-finder?,
no country would perhaps be in a more eligible fnuation than
ours-—but dear-bought experience has (hewn, that tho in a multi
tude of counsellors there may be fafety,yet in a multitudeof finan
ciers there is confufion, certain loss, and grievous opprefTion.
The funding system is faulted, becaule it has produced a rapid
appreciation of the public securities, by which great fortunes were
made for A. and Z. while it left P. and Q. inJlatu quo; but (incc
the speculations of the former have gone olf in sumo, the funding
system is, on that account, a bone for the fault-finders.
The funding system, it is acknowledged by its enemies, has
advanced our crcdit ; but still they fay it has soured the public
mind. If it has advanced our credit, it is more than the joint or
separate exertions of tnc old Congress* its Committees, Boards, or
all the State Legislatures in the Union could effett, in a long course
of years and yet this system has soured the public mindi
Nett amount of "Duties arising on Goods, Wares and Merchandize im
ported into the United States, commencing on the \JI October, 1790,
and ending the '30/ A Sept. 1791.
states. Dolls. Cts.
New-Hamplhire, - - 27>000 29
MaflTachufetts, - - 4 2 °»7°7 17 5 12
Rhode-Island, - - 107,102 35 1-4
Conne&icut, - 106,351 <53 1-4
New-York, - - 619,534 16 1-2
New-Jersey, - 6,508 68 1-2
Pennsylvania, - - 7°7»955 2 9
Delaware, - - - 18,283 86
Maryland, - - - 3 22 9 2 *-2
Virginia, - 334*995 8 3 2-16
North-Carolina, - - 58,861 42 1-2
South-Carolina, - - 234,082 23
Georgia, - - 4 2 > 28 5 9 1 " 2
Total, 3,006,722 85 7-12
A summary oj the value and dejhwtion of the Exports of the United.
States,from Ottober j, 1790, .'5 September 30, 1791, agreeable to
an abjlrad certified by the Regijler of the Treasury.
To Ruflia, -
To Sweden, - -
To Denmark, - ~
To the United Netherlands,
To G' eat-Britain,
To the imperial ports of the Austrian Nether-
lands and Germany,
To Hamburg, Bremen, and other Hanfe towns,
To France, -
To Spain, -
To Portugal, -
To the Italian ports,
To Morrocco, -
To the East-Indies, generally,
To Africa, generally,
To the Weft-Indies, generally,
To the N. Weft coast of America,
To Europe and the W. Indies, for a market,
Treasury Department,
March 28, 1792.
(J3T The length of the Mint AB, and of the highly inter ejltng cor
respondence between the President tf the United States and Generat
St. Clair, exclude from this day's Gazette the continuance of the Debate
in our UJl —it will be reftmed in next Wednejday's paper.
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 19/ 9,1; do.
Indents 11/3 do.
Hall si.arcs Bank Stock— 25 to 30 per cent, premium
Total dollars.
>7.57>.55» 45
TENCH COXE, AJJtJlant Sec'ry.
FUNDED DEBT.
V'-i
20 f
11[6
isj
par
.574 p f - cent -.
bo* do.
Dolls. Cts.
3.57°
21,866 2
277.273 53
1,634,825 66
7>953>4<8 21
362,010 21
6 4.259 25
4,298,76?. 26
1,301,286 95
1,039,696 47
J1,726 90
3.660 $0
318,628 46
168,477 gi
59.434 3®
3.380
29.274 75BOSTON, March 21.
THE new invented Steam Jack doe* honor to the
genius of a citizen of Maffacliufetts—Mr. John
Bailey, of Hanover, in the county of Plymouth.
He, by a happy thought, firft conceived the idea
of applying (team to propel a Jack, for roasting
meat; and after a variety of experiments, haa
completely carried that idea into effe<Ji. He has
jferfe&ed the Machine in a style extremely well
calculated for the convenience of families; a*
the manner of nfing it is so simple, any body can
doit.
Port-au-Prince exhibits a scene of unparallel
ed dill reft—the Negroes have got many strong
holds in the mountains—and continue to treat
the white inhabitants with the greatest severity
when in their power.
PORTSMOUTH (N.H.) March 7,0.
The British nation, convinced of the injustice
as well as the ill policy, of negletfting the petili
ons, formerly presented by their American fub
jedls for the privilege of a resident Bishop in the
Colonies, and the consequent hardships to a part
of their citizens, who did not enjoy all the insti
tutions of their religion without one ; have now
made piovifion for the support of three Biihops
in their North American Provinces. Three thou
sand pounds, are contributed by the national cha
rity, for the annual support of clergymen and
schoolmasters of the national church, and the
distribution of books of piety and devotion. New
churches are eretfting, schools opening and a
college founding. They are determined to give
every poflible encouragement to the spreading of
religion, morality and learning in those regions,
under the fandlion and proredion of government.
Description of a LOCK, in Canal Navigation.
A LOCK is a bason placed lengthways in a ri
ver or canal, lined with walls of raafonry on each
fide, and terminated by two gates, placed where
there is a cascade or natural fall of the country ;
and so conftrutfted, that the bason being filled
with water by an upper fluke to the level of the
waters above, a veflcl may ascend through the
upper gate ; or the water in the lock being re
duced to the level of the water at the bottom of
the cascade, the veflel may descend through the
lower gate ; for when the waters are brought to
a level on either fide, the gate on that fide may
be easily opened. Butasthe lower gateisftrain
ed in proportion to the depth of water it supports,
■when the perpendicular height of the water ex
ceeds 12 or 13 feet, more locks than one become
neceflary. Thus, if the fall be 17 feet, two Jocks
are required, each having 8 1-2 feet fall; and if
the fall be 26 feet, three locks are neceflary, each
having 8 feet 8 inches fall. The fide-walls of a
lock ought to be very strong. Where the natu
ral foundation is bad, they fliould be founded 011
piles and platforms of wood : they Ihould like
wise slope outwards, in order to resist the preflure
of the earth from behind.
LAW.
AN EXTRACT
FIRST cotnes the Declaration in Trespass
the Defendant's answer to the Plaintiff's decla
ration follows next; and this in law language,
is a PJea. Next comes the Plaintiffs exception,
ov answer to the Defendant's Plea ; and this the
gentlemen of the law phrafea Replication. Then
follows the Defendant's answer to the Plaintiffs
replication, or reply ; and this is elegantly ftiled
a Rejoinder. The Plaintiff is then pushed to make
a second defence of his Declaration, by way of
answer to the Defendant's rejoinder; and this
second defence is exprefled by what is known in
law to be a Surrejoinder. The Defendant perse
veres, and comes on with his answer to the Sur
rejoinder ; and this is prettily called a Rebutter.
The Plaintiff, being again atloofe ends,produces
a second replication to the Defendant's rebutter ;
and this is emphatically called a surrebutter.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, "l
March 31, 1792. j
NOTICE is hereby given. That the infereft for the quarter
endingthis.dav.onthe FUNDED DEBTotiheUnitedStatei'
nar.dine on the books of theTrcafnry, and of the Commiflionerof
Loans foi this State, will be paid at the Bank of the United State?.
STOLEN,
WITHI >J a few days last past, from the Subfcrlh.r, the fol
lowing NOTES, ifTued by the Treasurer of the Common
wealth of MafTachufetis: No. IS-'Si, Dec. 1, 1783,/' 72 it
payable to Phineas Lyman ; No. 18379, Nov. 1, 1783, f 06 4
payable to Will: am Lvo x; No. ,30,, Dec.,, >781, £.80 q!
Tiayableto Nathaniel Wrlcht ; No. 162 90. 1 i-R,
16—No. 71, OS. t, 1781, £.48 i, payable to Do'ftor
Samuel War e.
Whoever w,ll apprehend and secure the Thief or Thieves so
that he or (heymay be brought to joflice, shall receive a reward
pi I vtt.l V Dot; ARS ; and whoever will produce the above
• Otes, and return them 10 the fubferiber, (hall receive a reward
or OxsHcndrid Dollars, and all necelTary charges.
Precaution having been taken to prevent their ever being paid
to t ie rhict or Thieves by the Treasurer abovementioned • All
pi ".onstnerelore are cautioned not to Durchafe the above Notes
ol any one offering them for fa!e.
Xrtiav.p'en, Fa. 29, 1791,
fep.tf)
4' NATH. WRIGHT.
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION^
In the Commonwealth of MaJjachufcttj,
A
SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE of the ARTILLERY
in the UNITED STATES of AMERICA;
THE YOUNG ARTILLERIST'S POCKLT COMPANION.
IN THREE PARTS.
Part 1./ CONTAINING the-duty and practice of light field
artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and praflice of heavy artillery :
to which will be added, an extiaft of a Treatise on the origin and
principle of Courts-Martial, wrote by an experienced Officer in
the line, and who did duty as Judge-Advocate in America.
Part 3. Laboratory duty ; containing a great variety of dire&ions
for coinpofition, and the method of making artificial fire-works,
and the formation of ammunition for the different kinds of ord-
nance.
By WILL JAM STEVENS, Esq.
An Officcr 111 the American Artillery through the whole of the
late revolution, and since in the Militia.
CONDITIONS.
This wotk to be printed on good paper with a liandCome type,
neatly bound and lettered, in three pocket volumes, containing
upwards of one thousand pages; illustrated with a great variety
of explanatory plates, executed bv able artists.
The price to fubferibers, One Dvllar each volume-—to non-sub
scribers, One Frer.ch Croum each volume : and those who fubferibe
for fix setts, shall have a (evenih gratis.
This work lhall be publiflied as soon as five hundred copies are
fubferibed for.
Subfcripiion papers will be lodged with the principal Printers
and Booksellers in the United State? of America.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON, Bookseller,
At the Stone House in Second-Street,
The First Volume of
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS-.
Consisting of stati papers, and other authentic documents,
tiUpoded as materials for an HiAory of the United States
or America,
BY EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
Member of the American Philosophical Society, held at Philadel
phia for promoting ufeful knowledge ; and Fellow of the Ame
rican Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The dcfign of this compilation being to prefexve and exhibit a
regular fc-ries of the moll important and authentic documents re
lating to the history of America, from its discovery by Columbus
to the present time, it mull be peculiary interesting to alfwho wish
to acquire a thorough knowledge of this fubjeft.
April 4.
FOR SALE,
BLOOMSBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in New-Jersey, occupied for many years past by
the fublcriber; containing upwards of 200 acres ot land, besides
a trail of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the didance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main street leading from
Trenton 10 Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly part being arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the (aid street on the east, and by tht nver on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined effe£l of fix
ation and improvements generally allowed to be,one of the moll
beautiful and desirable feats in the Hate. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-fintftied brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brLk
kitchen ; and commanding a very extensive and pleasing view of
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both (ides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new lion:
coach-house and stables, fufficient to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining theft is a very complete granary,
rat proof, ami a stone cow-house, upwards of 100 feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved stalls, over which is a roomy loft for'
hay, &c. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
(late of culture, and abounding with a rich colle&ion ot the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and several large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, well
built, stone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large chcefe-room
spring-house, garden, &c. a complete stone smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
celfary out-building. The ground is properly divided into Jmntl
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chieflv under the
most approved grass. This square has produeed annually, for se
veral years past, upwards of, sixty tons of the best hay, besides
supporting through the fuinmer season twentv to thirty horned
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper seasons,
with great plenty of all kinds of fifh usually found in frefh water
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl ; both of which
may afford a pleasing amusement to the sportsman, as well as a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his table. The
whole of the land, except the wood-land, it inclofcd and divided
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar ports,
and rails of chrfnut and white cedar. The purchaser may have
the improved square separately, or the whole together, as may
best suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good build
ing stone on the river ftiore. The purchase money, if well secured,
and the interest punctually paid, will not be demanded foi many
years.
Any peifon desirous of viewing the premises, may be gratified
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. of Trenton,
or Mr. Inallman, who at present occupies the .'aim-houleand'
part of the land—and may know the price on application to the
fubferiber, at No. 213, South Second-street, opposite to the New-
Market, in Philadelphia. ]OHN COX
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warekousi, two doors
south of Walnut-flrcet Whaif, adjoining their New Fa&ory
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general affort
mcntof SHOT of all £zes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englifli woikmen, they wa, rant it to be
equal ,11 quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the coll of imported.
They also continue to manufaflure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addressed to either of the
above Faftoncs, will be thankfully received, and execucd on the
Ihortelt notice.
N. B. anted, induftrtous, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and 01 her encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
noules tor their reception.
For further particulars enquire of MefTrs. Moses Aust i n & Co
at their Faftnry in Richmond, or as above.
Pb.ladelplrij, Dtccvticr 3, 1791. '
404
' J ° R 'f"" C,IZ " Tt '■/""Vstrir, State- m U
earneftlj requtfi, the, thef, of h!i ftifrikcr,, mh .fc arrearage, hoi
been accumulating for more than toillc months, would make p aymnl
soon as pof/ltU~atfatthc.fi, befor, frjl day oj June
rkefc fcrfm j 'xhojha/l hdff.fitopatromzc thi, Gazette ast,,
the PoQ. Office LawJhaUgo into operation, wiltphaje tof, g ni,\ lk .. r
intention to the Dcpu.v Post-Masters in the Umtcd Jul fh „ it Jr
reified to forwardJurhfuffcriptions «, nay he recent J, to the Editor'
previous ,o the fjiijtrfi oj June The terms B \
Three Dollars per annum, KeUfUe of ficJUg<~0 K ehalftoi,p a , t a ,
the time offubferibing, the other half to te advanced a, the expiration of
the JirJl fix months.
Bank of the United States.
RESOLVED, TW.beStockholders b ,,"' 9? '
thonfed to compleat their Shares by payment at
before the periods required by the law oi incorporation
Resolved, That each Share Co compeared, thai] br entitle ,
draw a dmdend of the profits of the BanK, f lom and after the fi'ft
day of the month next fuccecdtng the day of compleattn, hi h
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's intereftuDon the P,k
lie Debt transferred to compleat any Share asaforefatd as ft,li
have accrued before the firft day of ihe month next .u
completion of such Share, (hall be received by the Bank 7 ,
to the persons who shall have transferred the fame '
By order of the Prcfident and Directors
f c P ,lft j) JOHN KKAN-, Cajhier.
At A, MM7INC 01 THE Dl**CTO*> of THE J}a„ k
the Unite? States, March 30, i?q s
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Discount and i)essGt he
authori Ted to receive of Stockholders the 3d and ithW
Payments on their Shares.in the Capital Stork of
that .he Calhie.s of the said o(ficesggi f duplicate leceioufjfo,!,
oayments, oneot which receipts,accompanied witi'evidence of
transfer of public debt fuffipent tp complete fatd fiarei.upou be"
ing produced at the $ank, (hall entitle fiich Stockholders to cer*
tificates for full (hares, and to all the benefits of tie Relictions
of the Board of Direflors patted the 21ft inftanl, re itire u,
pleting (hires by payment at any tupe before the periods reqmrtd
by the, law of incorporation. " ' •
By order of the President and D'reftorj.
JOHN KEAN, hjkitr.
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Colu.m.bu.
A Premium
OF a I.OT in (his City, to,be designated by impartial iudf<
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or a MEDAL'of thai
value, at the option of the party ; will be given by the Commit
fioners of the Federal BuilcJirjgs, to the perloti who, beloie the
fifteenth day of July, 1792, Hiall prod,uce to there the moU ap.
proved PLAN.it adooted bv them, for a C APITOL.iote erected
in this Ctty ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit tothe one they
(hall adopt. The building to beof buck, and to coutainthefol
lowing apartments, to wit:
(to.xm)
A Conference Room ? u ® c ' <-n j 10 ac -1
A Room for the ReprefenUtives ( com r modjtf 3 C ° I theferoamj
) persons each. ! 10 be of
A Lobby or Antichamber to the latter j full eieva.
A Senate Room of 1200 square feet area f uon.
An Antichamber or Lobby to the lad J
12 Rooms of 600 square feet area each, for Committee Roopisaod
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Diawings will be expe&ed of the ground plats, elevations of
each front, and le&ions through the building in such
as may be neceflaiy to explain the internal ftrufture; andanelli
mare of the cubic feet of brick-work com poling the whole mats
of the walls.
March 14, i 792,
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia,
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party, will be given by theCom
miilioners of the Federal Buildings, to the perfou who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, shall produce to them the most ap
proved PLAN,if adopted bythem,fora PRESIDENt'sHOUSE,
to be ere&ed in this City. The fiteof the building, if the ariill
will attend to it, will of course influence the afpe& and outline of
his plan ; and it's dtftination will point out to him the number,
/ize, and distribution of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of it may be detached and
erected for the present, with the appearance of a complete whole,
and be capable of admitting the additional parts, in future, if they
(hall be wanting. Drawings will be expected of the ground plals,
elevations ot each front, and fe£tioris through the building, irr such
dircclionsas may be necessary to explain the internal iiuflure;
and an estimate of the cubic feet of brick-work, compofiog the
whole mafc of the walls.
March 1792
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Cn*fnut-Street,next door to the Bank, No. 97,
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
STATE-STREET, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind of the Stocks of the United States,
Con mi (lion, by Private Contrast, and Public Auction.—
Those jcntlemtn who may be pleased to favor iliem with their
comm.nds, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
Bofbn, March, 1792. (rav^rO
A NEGRO MAN by the name of CATO VERNOV, *> or . n
in Newport (Rhode-Island) enlisted in Col. Greene's
me»t. of Blacks, early in the late War. fie survived the V- ar, ao
fetled, as supposed, in or near Philadelphia. If he wiil app Y
hereof, he will be informed of fomerhing con.i e
rblv to his advantage. April 4. ' c P-4'- _
TO BE SOLp BY THE EDITOR,
AT A BLE for receiving and paying Gold at the Ban'< 0. t
United States, (hewing the V?lue of Gold in Dollars an
Cents, One to a Thousand Pennyweights—according tot 0
A£l of Congress, ascertaining the Standaid and Value of Goid.
Blank Powers to rtceivc, (/ielntere[i,(indJor(hetranJfrtJ
principal of public debt, avrctablttcthe Rules ejlablijhed in the red
firy Department: Aljo IHjnksforabJlradsoJCcrtijicatcSy ttfijot c
the Editor.
(RT The JOUR \'AL nf the THiRD SESSION of *■ SIS'ATE
if the UNITED STATES, may be hide/ the Editor hereff.
tf THE COMMISSIONERS
THE COMMISSIONERS.
INFORMATION.