tiSwztiu of§ fiitM
/[No. 26, of Vol. IV.]
Treasury Department,
XJOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
IN be received at the office of the Secretary of
thcTreafuiy, until the 13th clay of October next
incluflve, tor the supply of ail rations which may
be required for the ul'e of the United States, from i
rhefirftday of January to the thirty.fii ft ddv of
December 1793, botndays incluflve, at SpringfieH,
in the State ot Maflachufetts, and the Post of Weft-
Point, in the State of New-York.
The rations to be supplied, arc to conftft of the
following articles, vt'7.
One pound ot bread or flour,
One pound of beet, or J of a pound of pork,
Half a jili of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, (
Two pounds of soap, > P cr 100 ratlOßS '
One pound of candles. )
The proposals mav be made for both of the
ab<ve-mcntioned Posts, or separately, for Spring
field and Well-Point.
Treasury Department,
August, 20th. 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury until the fourth day of October next
inchiavely, sot the supply of the following articles
of Cloth for the Troops in the lervice of
the United States viz.
or the INFANTRY and ARTILLERY.
Hats 18460 Shirts
4608 Coats 7956 Pair of Socks
46c8 Veils 4608 Blankets
8668 Woolen Overalls 4608 Stocks
9216 Linen Overalls 4608 Stock Clasps
18376 Pair of Shoes 4608 Pair of Buckles
For the CAVALRY.
360 Caps 720 Pair of Stockings
360 Coats 1440 Shirts
360 Vcfts 360 Blankets
360 Pair of Leather 360 Stocks
(Breeches 360 Stock Clasps ; also,
720 Pair of Boots 1200 Rifle Shirts, to be
360 Pair of Spurs (made of Ruflia Sheeting,
The above Clothing to be delivered either in
New-York, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the op
tion of the contra&or or contra6lors, on or before
the 15th day of June, 1793.
The piopofals may compr.fe the whole of the
before-mentioned Clothing, or any one or more
of thecomponent articles; to be furnifhed agreea
bly to patterns or specimens, which will be (hewn
at the War Office. Good security will be requir
ed for the pun&unl and faithful performance of
the contra&. The payment will be on she delive
ry of the Clothing, or, if necefTary, such reafofoa
ble advances will be made as the Secretary of the
Treasury shall deem expedient.
War Department,
August 6, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
the funis to which they are intitled for fix months
of their annual pension. from the 4th day of March
179 and which will become due on the sth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the laid day
by the Commiflioners of the Loans within the
States refpe&ively, under the usual regulations, viz.
Every application for payment rnuft be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
ift. The certificate given by the ftate,fpecifying
that the person poflefling the fame is in fact an in
valid, and afceitaining the sum to which as such he
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. 3. came before me, one of the Juflices of the
munty of in the Jlate of and made oath that
iie is the fzme A. B. to whom the original certificate
in his pojfejfion was given, of which the following Js
* copy (the certificate given by the Jlate to be recited)
That he served (regiment, corps or vejfelj at
the time he was d fabled, and that he now rejides in
the and county of and has resided
therefor the lafl years, previous to which he re-
Med in
In cafe an invalid fhculd apply for payment by
an attorney, the said attorney, besides the certifi
cate and oath before recited, mull produce a fpr
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the following
:
I, A. B. of county of Jlate of do
hereby conjlitute avd appoint C. D. oj my lawful
attorney, to receive in my behalf of my pcnjwn
for Jix months, as an invalid oj the United Stites.
Jiom the fourth day of March, one thovfj d /?ven
hundred and ninet\- two, and ending the fij*h day oj
September, one thoujandfeven hundred and ninety-two.
Sigurd and sealed
in the prelctice of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminifliators
nuft be accompanied with legal evidence of their
wlpcftivt- offices, and also of the time the invalids
whose pension ihtv may claim.
By command of the
Prcfident of the United States,
4 H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
fT - *" The Printers in the rcfpe&ive States are
rrqur-fted to pubhfti the above in ijieir newfpa-
F e rs, for tbe space of two monih#*
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FE.XNC, No. fig. HhiH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
August 20th, 1792.
; attradl the attention of the observing world.—
I Every modeff man, who, feels his incompetency
to filling a public pofl: \*jth honor and advan
tage to his country, and reputation to himfelf,
will flirink an appointment.—But is it
not true tha* we often fee the places which
ought to be occupied by persons of the firft abi
lities, poflfelfed by men, who have the ad
dress to conceal their incapacity by an invin- j
cible filetice in public ? Such men are loqua- 1
cious when it would be happy for their country
if they were tongue-tied—and by a pertina
cious adherence to taciturnity, when they ought
to be explicit in giving their reasons for their
votes, effectually deceive their constituents.
If fads did not warrant this statement, it woulc!
be thought impoflible that the people could ever
inipof'ed oti in fucti manner, as to elect for re
presentatives, men who never ajlign any
reason for their opinion on any point of political
discussion whatever.
Let it not be inferred from what is here sug
gested, that the writer considers a talent for
public (peaking, or declamation, as an indis
pensable qualification in a reprelentativc; he
is well informed that some gentlemen who were
members of the House of Representatives of)
toe United States distinguished themselves great
ly in committees by the soundness of their judg
ments, and their universal acquaintance with
books and men, who never made a set speech
in Congress ; and it was generally very easy to
aflign a reason for their conduit on most occasions;
especially on important questions ; but could
the fame be said of every silent voter, it does
not follow that oratory or the power of perfiia
fion is not of the highest importance in a free
public aflembly— the circumstance just men
tioned is a proof to the contrary ; for those who
do not speak themselves, are undoubtedly influ
enced in their decisions by the best reasons of
fered on each fubjett refpettively, so far as they
are men of candid and liberal minds.
It is further to be remarked, that the best
and most argumentative speakers, are not the
most talkative.
The Constitution of the United States is an
invaluable treasure—it is worth the labor which
it cost : The firft abilities of this country were
employed in framing it ; and fucli abilities
ought to bo engaged in its lupport, and main
tenance. Men of small powers, or weak intel
lects will never be found competent to the un
dertaking. We have seen wife and good men
differ in their conftruftions of the Constitution
—this will forever be the cafe in refpedt to all
human compoiitions ; how neceifary then is if.
ts have men of clear, discerning heads, anc!
found heats, to draw the line of reason andjuf-
I tiee—to diftinguifli between such a conftrudtion
; as would make the government a nerveless
trunk—a body without a foul—and one that
vould clothe it with powers subversive of those
very rights it was framed and adopted to de
fend ! The rights of men—all that we hold in
estimation as citizens, fathers, brothers—hus
bandmen, merchants, lawyers, clergymen, phy
sicians, mechanics, artizans, fcamen, labourers,
or men of fortune—depend on a wife and ener
getic government; on carrying the powers of
the constitution to such an extent as that the
benefits expe&ed from the social compact, sup
ported by so great an expence, as is incurred,
may be realized ; believe it—this is not to be
effected by medium, or ordinary abilities; 01
by men who have no opinion of their own—nor
poifefs any funds out of which they can form
one that is candid, and competent to the fubjett.
I fay nothing at p'-efent on political tenets—
but the flighted reflection will serve to con
vince every one, that as there are various sen
timents supported at the present time, very op
polite in their nature—and each maintained
with uncommon ardor bv their several advo
cate-, the importance of ele&ing men of liberal
mind-,, superior to party attachments, is great
ly ft lengthened by the consideration.
In private life, we are extremely desirous to
.n-ike the best .election of characters to decide
on matters of reference—and il unhappily en
gaged in a law suit, it is not the ipfe dixit of a
lawyer, that he will do our business in the bell
manner, which induces us to engage his ser
vices—it is his reputation in thtr world, and
the experience the people of that world have
had of feis abilities, that lead us to give the
man a preference-
Witnejfes.
Let not the interest of our country be less
dear to us ; not every one that cries libertv,
liberty, is a sincere friend to freedom, or that
is equal to defending the rights of freemen.
" * I "'HE effect of ridicule cannot but be pow-
X erful among the young and inexperi
enced. It is a remark often made, that the
man is found to degenerate from the excellence
Wednesday, August 29., 1792.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
REPRESENTATIVES in CONGRESS
THE intelligent and disinterested part of
mankind will form a judgment of the un
derflanding and information of a people, by tne
characters of those they delegate to tranfa<ft
their important concerns; public men are pla
ced in a conspicuous iituation—and naturally
On RIDICULE—an extract.
101
•'..'cb dtftinguifhed him when a boy. In the i
walks of literary life, instances are frequent of
thoie who, though they were the boast of their
ichool, appear with no superiority of merit*,
when they arc into the world. To
ridicule, for the mod part, they owe their de
g "delation. Their pre-eminence excites the envy
of their cotemporaries, who naturally endeavor
to obfeure that lustre, which burps them with
its blaze. They at fir ft value themlelves on
thole talents or acquisitions, of the worth of
which their companions have no adequate con
ception. Their remarks are attended to with
a sneer. A. nickname, the usual production of
-.ivy, is appropiiated to them. They are ihun
ned, as involving their companions in their own
l ablurdity and confequentdifgrace. This lafl is
| more than they can bear. They lay alide the
! appearance of virtuous emulation, and the re
ality soon follows. They ltudioufiy unlearn all
that rendered them truly valuable; and when
they have debased themselves to a certain pitch,
they are received with open arms, and are unit
ed with their company by the ilrong alfimiiation
of congenial natures.
No. 11l
Genius, virtue, learning, are often diftinguifh
<*d by a delicacy of mtrict," wnich wears the ap
pearance and produces the effects of infirmity.
are easily overruled if not convinced, by
tbs noifv antagonist, who makes up in clamour
what he wants in argument, and gains the vic
tory by dint of leathern lungs and nerves of
iron. A hcrfe-laugh, set up by a circle of block
heads, would overpower the best poet or philo
fophcr whom the world ever admired. The
man of mode ft merit can not stand the attacks l
of fcoffing ridicule; and wisdom has ever fought I
the lhade, where the impertinence of the great]
or little vulgar seldom intrudes. Cruel as it is
to distress sensibility, and injurious to mankind
to render worth contemptible, we often observe
persons of character joining in the laugh against
modesty and merit. In the moment of social
enjoyment, we do not give ourselves time to
reflect on the consequence of our mirth ; and
perhaps with kind intentions of promoting con
vivial happinefs 1 , we often hurt the feelings and
interests of individuals, as well as the molt im
portant ends of society."
Foreign Affairs.
[ ROUEN, (France) Jime 7.
THE second instant, when a young
couple who were going to be
married in a few days,. were taking
a walk in the park of Rambouillet
and were talking of their approach
ing happiness, they were both struck
by a flalh of lightning and killed on
the spot. The lightning had pene
trated the body of the young man in
such a manner, that in less than an
hour's time the corpse was in a state
of the utmost putrefadiion, and it was
feund necessary to bury both without
delay.
PARIS, June 9.
A Joan D'Arc has lately presented
herfelf to the National Aflembly.
She demands to be sent to the fron
tiers to expel the Auftrians, as her
great predeceflor did the Englifli from
the territories of France. The ma
jority of the members did laugh hear
tily.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
June 6. p. m.
Nothing of importance occurred in
this fitting, but the offer of foine En
gliftimen to fighr, as volunteers, in
the caulie of the French. Honorable
mention was diretfted t» be made of
their offer, which was referred.
Henry Vigier was formally accused
of carrying on a correfpondeiice with
the enemy, by the committee of cir
eumfpe&ion.
June 7. The whole of this fitting
was employed in fettling the mode
of forming and organizing the camp
of 20,000 men desired to be railed 10
preserve the internal tranquility of
the capital.
No one 1 is to be admitted into this
corps without a certificate of patriot
ism r><irn the municipality.
Should the number of persons of
fering as volunteers in e3ch canton
exceed the number it is to furnifli
the volunteers are to chufe from a
mong their number those that are to
be admitted.
June 8. Do<ftor l-riellly, so well
known by his valuable writings, and
especially for his attachment *0 the
' /'
c 7
y)po
[Whole No. 548.]
French Coinlitmion, sent hi* ion to
pre sent liis i 10 the Reprelent
atives of the French nation. The
young man was admitted at die Bar,
and in a diicourfe, written \vuh en
ergy, he acted to be adopted by the
nation, and to become a French citi
zen ; a title, lie said, the inoft envia
ble, and far superior to the honor at
tached to the arbitrary power of
Kings.
He was admitted to the honors of
the fitting, amicHt loud plaudits.
M. Francais, of Nantes, who pre
sented him to the Assembly, aifced a
decree of the Allembly, adopting the
young man. The requcft was put by
a member in the form of a motion,
directing the committee of legislation
to report, in three days, the draft of
a decree for that purpose.
The consideration of the organiza
tion of the now corps, was relumed.
I An article which was adopted, de
crees, that the volunteers fliall come
equipped and armed at the expence
of their refpc<ftive departments.
It was decreed to consider, as coun
terfeiters of coin, those who jfl'ue
notes of hand without funds to call
them in.
LONDON, June 6,
To the KING'S Mofl Excellent Majesty.
The humble Address of /i<Lo*Df'n.
ritual and Temporal, and Q.om
mons, in Parliament tifjembled.
" Mod Gracious Sovereign,
" VV£, your Majesty's most dutiful
and loyal f'ul>je<fts, the Lords Spiritu
al and Temporal, and Commons of
Great Britain, in Parliament alleni
bled, have taken into our most fei ious
confederation your Majesty's Hoj.il
Proclamation, which lias, by your
Majesty's command, been laid before
us : And we beg leave to teftify to
your Majesty our warm and grateful
sense of this frelh proof of your Ma
jesty's constant folicitnde for thewpl
fare and happiness of your people.
We cannot fee, without indignation,
the attempts which have been made
to weaken, in the minds of your Ma
jesty's fubjetfs, the sentiments ofobe
dience to the laws, and of attachment
to the form of government, civil and
religious, so happily eftabliihed with
in this realm. The advantages which,
under the government of your Ma
jesty and your illustrious ancellors,
have been derived from legal and
yvell regulated Freedom, and the un
exampled bleflings which we atftualjjr
enjoy, afford to your Majesty's sub.
jeds peculjpr motives to reflpcft, with
gratitude on their present situation,
and to beware of those delusive theo
ries which are inconsistent with the
relations and duties of all civil socie
ty. And we deem it, under the pre
sent circumstances, the peculiar duty
of every good citizen to discourage
and counteract every attempt, dire<Jb
and indirect, against public order
and tranquility. We are confident
that the sentiments which we now
express to your Majesty, are the ge
neral sentiments of the Nation : They
rnuft feel, with us, that real liberty
can only exist under the protection
of law, and the authority of efficient
and regular government ; and they
have seen, by happy experience, that
the mixed form of our Legislature
comprehends and provides for the
various intererts of the community,
through all its several descriptions :
and maintains and preserves those
gradations of property and condition,
which furnifh the great incentives to
ufeful induflry, and are equally es
sential to the vigor and exertion of
every part, and to the liability and
welfare of the whole. They there
fore know that the collective strength
and prosperity of the empire, its
wealth, its credit, and its commerce,
as well as the only security for the
persons, the property, and the li ber-!.
// X
- Z'ss/jcties of eacli individual, are eflentially
connetfed with the preservation ot
the eftabliflied constitution.
" Imprefled with these opinions,
we think it our duty to allure youi
Maielty of our firm determination to
support your Majesty in the reluluti
-011 which your Majetly has adopted ;
and we are fully petfuaded, that eve
ry exertion which may be uecellary
w ill be seConded by the zeal and gra
titude of a free and loyal people.
Mr. Williams, a mafon,of the coun
ty of Glamorgan, and a Welsh bard,|
fired with the notole spirit of enter-,
prise, is meditating an expedition to
North America, in search of the co
lony of his countrymen which tailed
thither with Madog ap Owen Gjvy
nedd, a Prince of North Wales, wj lo '
according to oral tradition, landed
on the hanks of the Mifliffipp'» ' n , ' ,e
year 1170, which was 322 years pre
vious to the dilcovery of America by
Columbus. , i
1 he concert of the Kings uandsj
some chance of being einbarrafled, it j
not defeated, by thejealoufy of the
German States. The kings of Hun-;
gary and Prussia have not addrefledj
them in ihe moil conciliating terms,
and some of the Ele<Jtors begin al
ready to fee, that if the kings fliould
triumph over the independence of
France, their own independence mult
be the next facrifice.
The war with France is the cause
of much more apprehension in Ger
many than the Bruflels Gazette would
give reason to believe. The alarm
has been felt even at Ratilbonne,
which several person» of diftintfion
left on the firft news of the declara
tion of war.
So heartily is the French Revoluti
on detested at Rome, that to have
been an enemy to it, is fufficient to
secure a man the reputation of every
virtue, even after his death.
We are sorry to fay, it is but too
evident that the despots of Germany
have a perfect understanding with
the Empress of Ruflia in the attack
which (he makes on the conftiturion
and territories of the republic of Po
land. We undeiftand that the King
of Pruflia, who was the firft Prince
made acquainted confidentially with
the changes intended in the system,
as far back as the year 1788, now a -
bandoiu the republic to its fate, and
so far declares hiinfelf against her,
as to refufe the auxiliary troops fti
pulated by the last treaty, in cafe of
an attack on the ftdeof Russia—under
the pretext that that treaty is of an
anterior date to the new constitution
of the 3d of May, 1791.
The situation of the French emi
grants, appears to be as hopeless as
ever. The commanders of the Pruf
lian and Auflrian troops will neither
a<ft nor communicate with them.
They will not even fuffer their troops
to converse with tbcfe collected by
the emigrants. The latter are at
leail as much divided among them
selves, as the Jacobins and their op
ponents at Paris.
General Benedict Arnold (better
known during the American war by
the name of one Arnold) was admit
ted to a conferrence with the minis
ter on Tuesday last. This gentle
man, if we mistake not, went over to
the continent two or three years ago,
with a number of American Loyalilis,
to form the settlement of New-Brunf
wick, from which he has lately rc
turned.
General Arnold is about to petition
government for a compenfaiion for
his lofles, or to promote his rank,
and give him atlive employment in
any situation befitting his abilities.
It is said that when the lit. Hon.
Secretary fit (I saw Mr.Thomas Paine's
letter to him, heconfulted Mr. Burke
about anfweripg it, but obtained a fe
•vere rebuke from the apostate dates
man. " What the Devil, fays he,
don't you think 1 would answer ren
own letters firft, if 1 could, before I'd
touch your's ?"
When the Secretary's Secretary
obtained the firft paper with Mr.
Paine's letter in it, he called his pa
tron at the bottom of the (lairs.
" Wha wants me ?" cries the Princi
pal. There's Paine's epiflle to voni
Honor—For the firft time in his life
he did na come when called, but ex
claimed, " The Devil burn the letter
and the author together—l would
they had boath been ftrawngled in
their birth." He returned toliisful
]en studies and there remained all the
day.
Extra fl oj a letter from Paris, May 25.
" Ye Iter day M. de. la Chemaye,
commandant of the National Guards,
was nearly torn to pieces by the mob,
for having attempted to prevent some
hot headed furious democrats from
infuhing the Queen under her own
windows."
WHIG CLUB OF ENGLAND.
Tuesday the monthly meeting of
this Club was held at the crown
anchor tavern, at which the Rt. Ho«.
Lord Fetre was in the chair. After
dinner they commenced their leftivi
ty by conftitutioual toasts. The health
of Mr. Fox in particular was drank
with the warmett and mod general
enthufiafin.
Mr. Fox fuid, he could not pafsoyer
the very marked compliment which
they had paid to him without return
ing his grateful thanks. He need
[not tell the company what they all
knew, that of late the queftioii of
, Reform in the representation of the
jpeople had been revived.
However warmly be wished for a
{moderate reform in the fyftemof our
• representation, he did not agree that
under all the obvious circumltances
of the day, the present was the pro-j
per season for the agitation of the
queftion~-but being agitated,he could
not withhold from it his zealous fjp
port.
After this, many diftinguiihed cha
racters were drank to with gratitude
for their services and attachment to
he cause of ihe conltitution.
The next meeting was appointed
for the 6th of September next, on
which day George Byng, Esq. will
be in the chair.
HOUSE OF LORDS, June ij.
THE PROROGATION.
At a quarter after three o'clock bis
Majesty arrived at the House of Peers,
and beingfeated on the Throne, with
the usual formalities, the Duke of
Leeds bearing the Sword of State, and
Lord Sydney theCapof Maintenance,
Sir Francis Molyneux was fenc to the
House of Commons, to command their
immediate attendance upon his Mfl
jefty.
The Con?mons being come accord
ingly, their Speaker addrefled his
Majesty to the following purport: I
" That his faithful Commons no
content with having carried into ef
fedt a bill, the principle and tenden
cy of which was highly interesting t(
public credit, and to the profperit}
of ihe Kingdom had also made pro
visions for preventingthe future per
manent increase of the national debt
by having resolved that on ali future
loans means should be found for theii
discharge, which operation it was
the hope of the Commons no neceflity
would ever prevent ; as by such pro
vision his Majesty's loyal fubjedis
would be guarded from tliofe difficul
ties in which they had been involved,
and which could only have been sup
ported by that public spirit and pa
triotic zeal, which pervaded all ranks
of his Majesty's people. Oilier ob
jects had also occupied the attention
of ihe Commons, who had the faris
fatfiion of releasing his Majesty's fub
jec'ts from several of the burthens
under which they had labored. The
Commons had also taken measures
to promote the commerce, the manu
factures and the revenue of the em
pire. He allured his majesty of the
determination of his faithful Com
mons to maintain the happy consti
tution of the country, from which the
people looked for an increase of their
blessings, and for the security and
continuance of those of which they
were actually pofTefled.
" T he Colnmons also trusted that
the giving to Juries the right of de
ciding on all cases of libels, would
be highly advantageous, as it gave
uniformity to the law, and security
to the property, the lives and liber
ties of of his Majesty's fubjeifts. He
declared the sense of the Commons of
the enjoyments arising from the pre
sent form of government, the pre
servation of which they were fully
convinced was determined to be per
fevered in by a great and loyal peo
ple. He concluded by faying beheld
in his hand the National" Debt future
102
Loan Bil., to which his Majesty's
faithful Commons prayed his Royal
Allent."
The Cl«rk having taken the Bill
to the Table, it teceived the lloyal
Aifent, in the ul'ual forms.
After which his Majelly was pleas
eel to deliver the following molt gra
cious Speech to both Houses ot Par
liament :
My Lurdt and Gentlemen, •
I cannot dole the present felfion of
Parliament without returning you
my particular thanks for the atten
tion and diligence with which you
have applied vourfelves to thf; fSjf
patch of the public business, and ef.
ptcially to the important objec'ts
which 1 recommended to your con
iideratioii.
Gentlemen of the Hon fa of Commons,
The readiness with which you have
granted the neceflary supplies, and
tile frefh proof which you have given
of your constant affection for my per
fou and family, in enabling me to
provide for the eftablilhment of my
foil, the Duke of York, call for my
warmed acknowledgments. 1 have
alio observed, with the utmost fatis
faiftion, the measures which you have
adopted for the diminution of the
public burthens ; while you have, at
the fame time, made additional pro
vision for the redu&ion of tlie present
national debt, and established a per
manent fyftein for preventing the
dangerous accumulation of debt in
| future.
My Lords and Gentlemen,
I have feenwith great concern the
commencement of hoftilltiesin differ
ent parts of Europe. In the piefent
situation of affairs, it will be my prin
cipal care to maintain that harmony
and good understanding which sub
sist between me and thefeveral belli
gerent powers, and to pi eferve to my
people the uninierrupted blessings of
peace :—And the afiurances which 1
receive from all quarters, t>f a friend
[ly disposition towards this country,
| afford me the pleasing hope of suc
ceeding in these endeavours.
The recent expressions of your uni
form and zealous attachment to the
eftablifbed government and constitu
tion, leave me no room to doubt that
you will, in your several counties,
be adtive and vigilaift to maintain
those sentiments in the minds of my
faithful people ; and I have the hap
pinels of receiving continued and
additional proofs of their just sense
of the numerous and increasing ad
vantages which they now enjoy under
the protection and distinguished fa
vour of providence.
Then the Lord Chancellor, by his
Majesty's command, said,
My Lords and Gentlemen,
It is his Majesty's royal will and
pleasure, that this parliament be pro
rogued to Thursday the 30th of Au
guil next, to be then here holden ;
and this parliament is accordingly
prorogued to Thursday, the 30th day
of August next.
On his Majesty's return to ihe Palace ycfterday.;
a Privy Council was held, which wa: attended by]
Mr. Pitt, the two Secretaries of State, the Duke
of Leeds, Lord Sydney. &c. when Lord Thurlow
laid the Seals of his office at his Majesty's feet,
addrefling the King in a most feeling fpcech, re
pref. nting the unstained state wherein he had re
sinned his commiflion, which ha had held since
June 2, 1778. His Majesty feemeel afl'c&ed on thr
occasion, on which Lord Thurlow immediately
withdrew, and the Seals were put in the corn
million of Lotd Chief Raron Eyre (who was sworn
in one of hts Majesty's Privy Council) Sir \V.
Afhhuvft, Knt. one of the Judges of the Court of
Kind's Bench, and Sir John Wilson, Knt. one of
the Judges of the Court of Common Pleas, who
k fled the King's hand on their appointtnenc, and
retired with the Seals of Office.
CHIN f. SB EMBASSY
The Embassy from this country to China has
the advantage, as every public undertaking should,
of much deliberate and laborious preparation.
Among other circumftanccs, the provision of
interpreters should be noticed. Sir Geo. Staunton
bad heard, that fomeChinefe, brought over by the
French Miftionarics, were, iaft fu miner, in an
Italian convtnt, to which they hud gone from
France. He wont over to Italy liimfelf; tJifco
vered their reiidcnce, and obtained leave of the
Pope to bring them to England. Two of them
are now in his house in Harley-Strcet, and two
more arc daily expelled. They aie engaged, at
prcftnt, in learning Englifh,and qualifying them
selves othe» wife for the office of Interpreters to
the Embassy. Some little Chmefe is also learned
from them.
These men are deeply initiated and interested
in the mysteries of the Church of Rome, and
were, therefore, the more readily parted with by
the Pope that ihcy might serve hi* cau'e in China.
The number of persons accompanying this
embassy will be much greater than was exp**6led.
1 h<" f ro"ps and seamen alone wll '■ venn
dred, so 4hat the purpofcs ol protffl
of dignity, will be fufficiently for.—
JUNE 16.
we!' zs.
Among the gentlemen eiiated r.r, gk i
areamltsof every c Wj, W«V.- r.5. , «!g t
thev require. "•■MB'
Their voyage from ?or(f mom v wi ls"
mence sooner than AuguH. '
.Wehave been favored with , t-Jl .
TOW miJuary tnftitutfi bv t;
of\he work
Aou*. but ,hc preface i. the ')
tWplvtng, that heaven (übfills bvlii ~l' ■"*'>
h.m " -he f10,,r in rl,c .«r4, *<*
In thtfea of JMimity ; and tcilt,
erect V a pyramid nf the heids ol lilt fnr _.„ ™V®
I'op If "° 11 t '""' ght * ,koUfln<i >"'>
BASSETERIiE (St. Chriftopber'O
On We.-tnefchv the ift inft. toot r ,f t <, a ■
m this road were preparing to de.n-Vfo-v
rope ; but from the ..multiplicity of
be done on that day none of the Com m 4? s
cou.d get on board before the eu-nini 1
from the very strung wind and e t
which tnen prevailed, every effo-t that
made to get the ships under way n-„ verl f, '
less. In the moiling of ThurHay; amoftdifl
felling scene printed itfe!f,for the wind wh' !.
had flufted in the course of the night from the
North to the Weft, South-Weft and South bint
a violent gale, which precluded every enii'eavo
to get to sea. In this dreadful taationmoftof
the veuels dragged their anchors, aid for (cm
time it was expected that uone of then
ride out the storm. The brig George and Mar
garet, Capt. Afhington, the IfabeiL, Captaia
Carnegie, were stranded; as also the Hoop In
dian Castle, Capt. Bafden, the schooner Conceit
Captain Pawfon, and the schooner Fiend-'
Capt. Lifford: these veflels were providential'
drove so near the lhore, that the re<pe ftire crews
got to land whhoat any lives being loft. All
the sugars on board the (hip and the brig, and
some on board the finaller vessels, are loft
The Friends is gone to pieces; the others now
lay stranded.
Abont eight o'clock in the morning,' the (hip
Britannia, fully loaded, and patenters on board,
parted her cables and ft ruck on the bar about
200 yards from the snore; at which time a boat
with much difficulty got along-side. Jo ephM.
Woodyear, Esq. who was one of the pafTenge-s,
got in the boat, not with a view to personal
fafety, but for the purpose of making a haz -
ous attempt to carry a rope to the shore, which,
was made fact to a raft that had been previmlv
ccmftrufted; the rope unfortunately broke as
soon as he got to the shore, and although seve
ral attempts were made to get the boat off
again, none of them proved fuccefcfuL,
The ship sustained the fury of t'ie boisterous
waves from eight till about ten o'clock, when
she began to go to pieccs; and then tbe.moft
grievous scene presented itielf to thefpeftatw
on shore—the more so, as not the least tfcfbnce
could be given to the unfortunate fnfferers.—
Attempts were made by some of the crew to
reach the shore, in which several perifbed—a
few were saved. The Captain, with a few
others, continued on the wreck till three o'clock,
when he was so exhausted, that he either loft
his hold or quitted the wreck—the raoft vigo
rous endeavors were now made torefcuehim
from the watery grave—he was brought on
shore, but so far (pent, that every means nled
for his recovery proved ineffectual. Mrs. Moore
and her two children, and three soldiers, with
two women and a child, were pafTenger<;, all of
whom perished, except one soldier, with several
of the crew. There were 32 people on board,
of which only ten survived—the bodies of all the
others were found and interred on Friday last.
Captain Woodyear was a gentleman deserv
edly esteemed in life, and very generally la
mented in death. He has left a widow and
three children to bewail his untimely end.
The brig , Capt. Satterthwaite, is
stranded at Old Road, and a negro man drowned.
The (hip Sarah and Ann, Capt. Chivers, wu
loft on the reef at Nevis, on Vednefday sight,
and two of the seamen drowned. She was rea
dy to fail for London ; the passengers on board
were providentially saved.
From Dominica, we hear that a ftip and le ;
veral small veflels were on fliore at that uffi.
At Antigua, several small vefTels are <*• <nn-e.
At St. Euftatius, a large Dutch ftip,
wards of 400 hogsheads of sugar, is gon; 0
pieces, the whole of the cargo loii. Se \ e . rl
small vefTels totally loft. A Spanish bri? ™cd
lay in that Road, put tofe i in the gale and foi
dered, and all the people, the Captain excepted,
drowned; the Captain's wife and twoorthr
children drowned. ~
ExtraSlof a Utter horn * fntkuiy »• «"" f
ncwiytt his friend ir *«"
" On the firft instant, the wind blcwttnwt
from the North ail da-, and the Iky bad ■
oniinou" appearance; about ten o'clock at n. »
the wind increased, and continued to doo to
the fame point, till fonr the next morn
short calm fncceeded, when the wiin
the south with redoubled force,
that every moment would be carta• .
the mercy of God, ray house ft' o
amidst the general wreck. out,
" When dav-light permitted me to
Oh God! Oh God! who c;.n tell ho» (
Every vessel in the harbor, to e tfctpei
ten, were driven 011 ihore : i.ot »
but Col. Gumb's boat
house to be seen up the Bay, p
ami one or two more ! nieccPo"?
" Poor Frank Savage, and . i
Crawford, were knocked jj ow " 1 "', ef( j morn
killed immediately—rbothburie . • h broten,
ing ! Little Polly Savage has_ber t g
a„ S d is very ill. Mrs. Duffield a £
dangerously ill. Old Mr. ca, t"n dead «f
---ed in the public bay—l-e wasta - . fevera iof
terdav, and buried in the even r t ~f
his negroes are dead, but lift
about seventeen blacks in I whit jn ( „ wO .
There are fifty-fix hou.es bl ba ]f dowr—
Mr. F,levdin's fpscious hmi ar e
vonrhoure is saved. a F"
, t more than even houfa
I ileaveu's fake let me bear liom .
'I
1
I
ij*
coin.BOSTON, August 13.
. By Capt. Cofin, arrived here from Cadiz,we
are informed, that General Eowles, the famous
Indian Chief, is :n c:ofe confinement in Cadiz
i fie. ;
A revolution spirit is appearing on fevtral of
the Weft-India iilands. At St. Vincents, tbe
Legislature have relieved to infill upon their
right to Interna! Legislation, in all matters re
lating to the Internal Government of the Co
lony.
UNION BASK.
The following gent'.jr.ren are chosen officers
ef'tfie Union Bank, viz.
Hon. Moses Gill, Esq. President.
Alexander Hodgdon, Esq. Cafnier.
Mr. Nathaniel Emmons, First Accountant.
Mr. George Burroughs, Teller.
Mr. Andrew Johonnot, MelTenger.
DANE V R Y, Aueuft 18.
Yesterday Peter Farrir-g, an liiOunan, and
John Sharp, a Mulatto, were convicted before
the Hon. Superior Court in this town, of high
way robbery, and sentenced to confinement and
hard labor in Newgate prison during their na
tural lives. They took their departure for that
place this morning.
ELIZABETH-TOWN, August 23.
It mull be pleasing to the friend-, ot' New-
Jorfev, to find that fever 3! new manufaftorles
are eftab'.ilhing; and that, this Hitherto opprefled
state miy yet rile to importance, and fliine with
Iplendor in the new confte'.lation.
We hear from Pater Con, that Major L'Enfant
has prepared a plan of the town, which far fur
pafies any thing of the kind yet seen in this
country.
Cotton manufactures' in this country are be
.oming numerous; and it is the opinion of fonie,
jiotwithftanding labpr is higher than in Europe,
that as we can have the raw material of cotton
upon the fame term?,or better than in England,
it can be imported. The advantage of mills
and other hydraulic machines will be avail fay
ing of labor.
SD N B U K Y, August u.
FOR THE SUNBUR* GAZETTE.
Mr. Kennedy,
As the flux is now raging with
much malignancy, in many parts of
this country, 1 take the liberty of pub
lishing the following simple cure,
which after an experience of its uti
lity, for near 40 years, I will venture
to recommend as a sovereign re
medy,
Take two teafpoonsful of clean
lickory or oak ashes, quite hoc, in
naif a gill of old spirits, whilky or
milk, morning and evening. It is
feldoin neceflary to repeat it more
than two or three days.
N. B. Let the patient observe at
the time, to live on a flour diet alto
gether ; and it would contribute
much to the cure if a warm flannel
was conftamly wore next to the flo
mach. A Subscriber.
Philadelphia, Aug. 29.
The Ship Friendship, Capt. Brice, is arrived
at New-York, from London, in 6o days palfage.
She brings papers to the 19th June —extra&s
from which fliall appeal - in our next.
The ftilp George, of Boston, Silas Daggett,
master, arrived in Hampton-Road, Virginia,
the 17t!i inft. in 35 days from Cadiz—By him
we learn, that the people of Spain having ex
prefied great alarm and uneasiness at being kept
in ignorance of what was doing in France, the
Minister thought it best to allow them the liber
ty of speaking freely on political fubje&s; in
conlequence of which the French Constitution
had become the fubjeftof common conversation
in all the coffee-houfes and places of public re
sort That the King of PrufTia had withdrawn
his troops intended to ast against France, in
order to keep a watchful eye over the condutt
of the Empress ofßulTia, with regard loPoland:
That M. de la Fayette was carrying all before
him—and that wherever he penetrated into the
Austrian dominions, the people had declared in
favor of the French Constitution.
James Napper Tandy, Esq. has been acquit
ted by a Jury in Dublin, on his indi&ment for
challenging the Solicitor-General.
Very honorable notice is taken of the zeal
and indefatigable exertions of M. de laFayette,;
in a letter from Paris, in forming and difcip!in-f
ing the French army—that he may bring it to
such perfection as to be an effefhial barrier a
gainst the inroads of the Auftrians or their al
lies. These inceflant cares are however begin
ning to affect a constitution naturally strong,
and a spirit replete with enthufiafmfor the wel
fare and final eftablifhinent of the rights of man
kind. M. de la Favette eats little, and carries
an example of temperance almost to extrava
gance. Sleepless nights and toilsome days are
the lot of this a£Hv? friend to mankind —and
hifto: v will mark ' out as or.c of those few
extraordinary men who are for the human
race.
Lad Saturday morning a fine fcnale child
was found in a cellar window at the corner of
E'ft\r"A'ley in Second street.—The humane
pe< p e in the neighbourhood took proper care
of it.
The works of the late Francis Hopkinson,
Esq. are now published, by Mr. Thomas D'»b
%f°n, of chis city, in three voir, nesoftavo. "1 hey
consist principally of Miscellaneous EfTays, Po
•m~, and oecafiona writings, forming an en
tertaining and u'eful collect n, little, if at all
infv : to the mc.. fa orite authors from the
•fcic* iide of the Atlantic.
M. de la Fayette is now the b<ft hope of
France, and, considering the cause of rVaric ,
of all the continent.
for the old, as he wa
-»*" C.. c i tw \vor
Four hundred paiil'i w r " ;:-e arri ?cd at Kev
cai*!e trorn L unlojjde.i •, in the lhf> aiju U2»d
Slliar.
A.filip is arrived at Charljefton, .(S. C.) from
Ireland, with 35 3 pafiengers.
A Paris paper of June 9, mentions a late in
difpolition of the King and Queen j and at tTie
fame time their con vale fee nee. The Prince
Royal is also mentioned as Very ill, and daily
declining in health and spirits.
Capt. Egar, of the Molly, arrived last Thurf- j
day from Cape-Francois, in 12 days, with 22'
passengers. The disturbances at the Cape have
little appearance of ceafirg. The Commander
in Chief had given great disgust, by lending back
| the troops to Old France, which were sent out
for the defence of the iftands. The Mulattos
are in the full enjoyment of liberty, but will not
adt against the Negroes, who continue as turbu
lent as ever. They made a very desperate at
tack on Fort Dauphin, about 3 or 4 clays prior
to Capt. Egar's departure from the island, but
were repulsed with verv inconf:derable loss on
the part of the garrison, although the (laughter
of the blacks could not have been under four or
five hundred. This fort, which is situate be
tween the Cape and Fort-Crispin, is of such con
sequence, that, had it been taken, the Cape must
have inevitably fallen next. The Negro Camp
is so near the Cape, that the noifeof their firing
is heard every night. All the plantations, ex
cept one or two, are destroyed by the Negroes,
and on these they are conflantly making repeat
ed attempts.
Extratt of a letter from Cape-Francois, July 28.
u One of the government schooners brought
yesterday into our port a Spanish schooner, ta
ken by her in Maribaroufe River : the prize
had on board four guns, 4 pounders; seven t|iou
fand weight of powder, four hundred cutlafies,
and some muskets, which (he was conveying to
the rebel Negroes near the Cape.—The Captain
was on shore treatingwith them; and the crew,
consisting of 3 men, have been put in prison."
Extrafl of a Utter from Fort-Knox (Vivcennes) dated
J»it }5< >79 2 '
" I am afraid, my friend, that we {hall have
a very ugly job on hand, with this Indian war.
The Indians on this river are peaceable enough
with a great deal of watching and coaxing—
they come in here very frequently, and appear
to have a great itch for fcalpingand plundering,
and nothing, I imagine, but their concern for
the prisoners we have, restrains them from tak
ing up the hatchet.
" A few days ago, several Chiefs came in
from Opec, a place high up on the Illinois river,
and, in their speech to Major Hamtramck, told
him they were frequently invited and threaten
ed by the Miami Indians to induce them to go
to war against us, but that they had not, nor
did intend to do it. That we must keep a good
heart, for we should have a great many more
to fight this year than we had the last—wished
us success, and hoped we might give them a
good drubbing. The Major enquired whether
the Britilh made them any presents—they re
plied, that the Britifti gave them goods like
stacks of hay, provisions, arms, ammunition,
and every thing but big guns.
u Indeed, every intelligence we have receiv
ed from the Miami villages, corroborate so far
as to convince us that there will be double the
number of Indians in the field this year, there
was the last, and the British continue to supply
them with every thing they want; so that I
think a few of us will be apt to lose our hair."
F.xtraif? oj a Utter from Paris, June 11
The French nation will be free, in spite of
the number of difientions fomented even in
their aflembly, by the enemies to all liberty;
the greatest, and the far greatest part of the na
tion, being (launch to the constitution.
" I have been once to the National Aflem
bly, and was sorry to fee the want of order that
prevailed in the meeting of the representatives
of so formidable and powerful a nation as
France. Though there are many very emi
nent chara<sters among the members, it is easy
to perceive that they are divided into several
interests : some wifti to have entirely a repub
lic, others more power and more confidence in
the supreme executive ; and others (who are
the wisest) wish to preserve the constitution as
received and as eftabliftied : in fa&, some are
too moderate, and some too violent, and the
greatest diffidence exists, and not without rea
son, since the desertion of some men who had
even a great hand in the revolution : But not
zuit/ijldtiding all that, Liberty and the Rights oj Man
will pjevail."
The Medical Society of the State of Dela
ware have announced the following queflion as
a fubjedtof prize dilfertation, and invite the in
genious and learned of ail nations to the com
petition—viz.
" What is the origin and nature of the noxi
ous power which prevails especially in hot and
moist climates during summer and autumn, and
produces intermittent and remittent fevers,
and certain other difeales ? By what means
may this insalubrity of climate be corre<sted ; —
and the diseases thence arifmg moil luccefsfully
prevented and treated
The competitors for this prize are requeued
observe, that the means of correcting this
species of noxious climate, will be considered as
the principal stress of the proposed queflion.
The premium to be awaided to the author of
! the best dissertation on the queflion proposed—
The dissertation to be transmitted, free of
charges, to the Preftdent of the Society on, or
before the second Tuesday of May, 1795 —It
may be written either in the English, French,
German or Latin language—The premium to
consist of Three Hundred Dollars, or the value
thereof in plate, at the option of the author, to
be paid him or his order in fix months after the
adjudication none of the dictations, of-
103
be m
■"*>A'correfpondent in the Delaware Gazette,
coferve ; that Mr. Dickinfon's late donation ol
i iftv Poinds, to the premium offered by the
SVTc?dical Society of the State of Delaware,while
it deinonftrates the iiberallity of that gentle
jiian, is, at the fame time, a proof of the rising
importance of Science in our American Repub
lics. must serve as an earneil of its future
diffusion and uJefulnefs. y
u A number of youhg farmers (fays a cor
respondent) who are about to fettJe some new
land, would wi(h to be informed in a p6int that
immediately concerns them ; and on which, be
fore their removal, they would be glad to take
"opinions of their fellow-citizens j whether
a future Congress will perlevere in the fyftein;
of Britilh politics, and will, after the policy of
that nation, extend the Excise to Cider, Beer,
Candles, and other neceiiary articles in a fami
ly ? This question might, perhaps,with proprie
ty have been addrefied to those who have secret
ly influenced the measures of Congress, and who
are now exerting every nerve to fill the new
legislature with men devoted to avarice, and
who will humbly pursue every measure dictated
by their patrons."
As avarice is the basest pafHon that can dis
grace the character of our species, it is a molt
humiliating refle&ion that our public measures
should in this early period of our existence as a
nation, be controuled by men devoted to its in
fluence.—A correspondent observes on the a
bove paragraph from the u National Gazette"
—that it conveys the mod audacious imputati
on on the character of the people, who elected
the members of Congrefc—it is little fliort of
faying that the freedom of ele&ion is rather a
curse than a blessing—But who, enquires our
correspondent, are the men who Iwve made the
members o/Congrefs Hie tools of their avarice
—and who are the men that have thus fold
themselves to the worlhippers of mammon? Let
' their names be expoled that the people may
j know them—till this is done, such inuendoes
can pass for nothing better than the suggestions
ofabafe mind—The authors of insinuations
like the foregoing, cannot be considered as
friends of the people, of the union, or of the li
berties of this country—They may with pro
priety be ftiled incendiaries, who scatter fire
brands, arrows and death.
| Reason should govern one man—it should go
vern all men—it is opposed by pafTlon, which
'should not govern at all. When the enemies of
government address the pailions of the people,
as they inceflantly do, it is to prevent their be- j
ing governed by reafon—for the government of j
! reason is fatal to party influence.
Perfect peace and tranquility arefeldom long
enjoyed by any society or community—the peo
ple of the United States appear to have the
most favorable profpedts that were ever pre
sented to the sons of men of a long series of en
ci-eafing happincfs-—but there are men among
us who are determined to blast our hopes,
and to turn our glory into shame and contempt.
These eagle-eyed politicians are so iharp
fighted, that they can fee, as the man did thro'
the telescope, things out of fight. Nay, they
arrogate to themselves the attribute of omnis
cience, and judge not only of actions by their
falfe conceptions of things,but even of the hearts
of those who presume to have an opinion of their
own, different from their's.
It is said, that " the ambition and avarice of
some men are never to be fatisfied."—Que re,
whether those passions in any man or men, were
ever fatisfied ? But unfortunately for the coun
try, it is further said, " a few ambitious and
avaricious men, have been for some time bend
ing the whole power of the United States to
promote their private views of ambition and
wealth/'-—What a service would some men,
who are entirely diverted of these infernal pas
sions, render their country, by pointing outwith
their finger of scorn, these men of ambition and
avarice, who 4i ast as if they wished to bring
j the whole wealth and power of the country un
der their feet."—Que re, whether the " men
who have for some time been bending the whole
power of the United States," may not be said
to have it already fufficiently in their power to
put "it under their feet -Quere —What fort
of government is that where every law enadted
by the legislature thereof ought not to be obey
ed ?—Quere —What is Republicanism ?—What
a pity M'Fingal's opinion is not reducible to
pra&ice !
You (hall be vice-roys, it is true,
But we'll be vice-roys over you.
It is said, that " the civil wars of modern
Europe have been distinguished rot only by the
fierce anhnofity, but likewise by the obllinate
perseverance of the contending factions." Tne
lame remark will equally well apply to the civil
wars of every age and every country—the rea
son is obvious—personal animosities put a
keener edge on the spirit of resentment, and
the desire of revenge, than general quarrels be
tween different states, governments and king
doms—the parties are likewise more fully ap
prized of the strength and refourc«s of their re
fpciftive opponents —this circumstance reduces
them to a point of nearer equality, and serves
to prolong the contest. Further, the parties
generally contend for life, farae and fortune ;
the unfortunate principals of either fide, always
falling facrifices to the vengeance of the victors.
It is a circumllance to be noted, that in molt
civil wars, the ostensible motives are similar—
thus religion was the object in the civil wars of
France, which deluged that country in bloods or
near a century. The Protestant religion on
one fide, the Catholic on the other Aud if
Catharine, Empress of Germany, can excite a
civil war in Poland, the enemies of the revolu
on will probably fay, as well at its friends,
that Liberty is their object.
all be found to merit the premium, the
refervc the power of withholding, and;
■* it to fonie other important puipofes.
On Tuesday the 2ift inft. arrived at Boftor,
the schooner* Harmony, Capt. Drew,from Bour
deaux. By letters received per this arrival
elated June 29th, we are informed that the
young King ot Ilungaryand Bohemia Was dead,
luppofed by poison : That there were commoti
ons in Prulfia, which it was thought, would ope
rate in favor of the French revolution : That
rJlignat:, have appreciated from 63 to 40 per
cent discount: That, notwithstanding, bulinefs
j was alniofl ftagnajsed ; and the nation feeined
/(n a liatc of anxiety for some gieat event;
That desertions from the old troops of France
had become rtiore common than heretofore, ow
ing to bad management in the Commilfary and
Quarter Mailers' departments ; but that the
spirit of the people was very far from being in
the leafl deprefied.
At a Meeting of the Gertnantown Society for pro
moting Doraeltic Manufactures, on Monday lall f
the following Addiefs was delivered by the
Prejidcnt.
CENTIEMEN,
DID not your Iteody attention and exertions to
promote American manuiattuii-i affoid a pleali >g
afiurance of your determined relolution to support
them ; I ihould not at this time call your atten
tion to the schemes of Tome influential characters
in the United States, which if earned into lull ef
te£f, will tend to destroy the infant manuia£turrs
of our country. You are all acquainted with the
proportion of the Secretary ot the Tieafury to
establish national manufa£tonea, and that at this
moment he is pursuing his plan with unremitted
attention. Should he be fuccefsful in this project,
to what situation will you be reduced, who are
perfonajly engaged in manufaftuies ? Will not the
exemption from militia duty, and the cxclufiVc
privileges granted to the -workmen of fucli fafto
i ies, draw off your hands ? Will not the prodigi
ous capitals of monied men, invcfled infucheftab
lifhments, enable them to monopolize all the raw
materials, particularly in the important occupa
tions of the hatter and tanner ? Will not the ex
cluAve privilege granted to the corporation ot
[establishing lottei ies to indemnity them for lodes,
enable the company to underlell and ruin every
private citizen perlonally engaged in maiiufaflures?
Will not the arbitrary and unjultifiable interference
of government in the private occupations of, citi
zens discourage young men trom acquiring the
knowledge of any occupation in which they may
be ruined by a combination of rich men enjoying
the particular patronage and protc&ion of govern
ment?
Nat. Gaz.
1 his fubjeft and ihefe questions merit your fc
rious attention. As yet you have the power in
your own hands, you ought to exert it to support
your rights.
It is the slavish do&rine of some men, " that
government has the whole property of citizens un
der its command, and that every law enacted by
(he legislature ought to be obeyed." No govern
ment on earth can be inveiled with power to vio
late those natural rightsof man, the prote&ion of
which is the sole obje£t of the inftiiution of civil
lociety, thereiore, every attempt made by the le
giflatuie to destroy them, ought to be oppoied by
a free people.
1 he ambition and avarice of some men are ne
ver to be fahsfied. A few luch characters have
been for fon>e time bending the whole power of
the United States to piomote thtir own private
views ol ambition and wealth. Not content with
the honorable name of citizen, they wilh to in
troduce diitin&ion of rank ; not content with en
joying at their cafe every advantage whieh our
country can afford, or their wealth procure, they
desire to interfere in the occupations, and tocui
tail the enjoyments of their lellow-citizens. They
a6l as if they wished to bring the whole wealth
and power of the country under their feet. May
the early oppofniou of the People of America
to the unjufl meafuresof these deluded men—may
the glorious and blessed light of the French revo
lution, aided by the writingsof the friendly clubs
in England, tend to convince them of their er
rors, and bring them to regard the rights of men
in every occupation, as sacred.
Publijhed hi order pjthe Society,
THOMAS DUNGAN, Secretary.
Mr. Fenno,
THE obje&ions to the law pasTed by ihc Lcgif
lature of New-Jeifey lor incorporating the lociety
inftitutcd for the promotion of Manufactures, con
taincd'in the above addrcfs, your readers may rr
j col jell to have seen in a performance signed Clitus,
which was publi(hed in the Gazette of the United
States about the time that the law was enacted.—
That speculation was firft printed in hand-bill«,and
circulated in that Stale previous to the pafling of
the law.—Let it be remembered that the establish
ment in New-Jersey is a State buftnefs—that it is
not a national inftitution—aud that the citizens of
that State are alone accountable for any confc
quences which may result from it.
It is to be presumed that the Lcgiflature of New-
Jersey knew what they were about when they
parted the ast of incorporation. Their conflitu
ents appear to think that the interefl of the State
has been consulted—and while the essential and
la fling advantage of the people can be more effeftu
aliy promoted by encouraging monied men to
combine their capitals, and come forward in un
dertakings, which, for want of funds, have never
yet flourifhed in this country —the modcjl decla
mations, and the charitable imputations of no
disappointed partizan, will, I trull, have the least
effea—unlefs, indeed, the declaimer happens not
to be a citizen of Nf w-Jersey.
Died in New-York, on Tueiday last, Mrs.
Anna Maria Seton, aged 36 years, after
a tedious illness, the much beloved conlort of
William Seton, Esquire.
ARRIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Snow Pallas, Coffin, Cadiz
Ship Four Volani, ditto
Sloop Commerce, Wainivrigh?, Bermuda
Polly and Debby, Var.hook, St. Kitis
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, ' %lf
3 per Cents, 13/
Deferred, *3/5
: Full shares Bank U. S. per cent.pi cm,
I JjQiarts, 6*
SHIP NEWS.By THOMAS MIFFLIN,
Governor of the Commonzva/tn oj rennj\iinnt<u
A PROCLAMATION.
Thomas Mifflin. an Inquest which was hei'
on the feventeentn day o*
Angnft inftanf, that a certaraElizabetb Keeve% j
of the city of Philadelphia. :;unlter, - , , re ,'!
policy require, that every exertion I .ji.kl t j
nude to detect and pur.ifa the perpetrator o
I have thought it proper and expedient to ilTue^
THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS to anyperfon
or perlons who lhail discover, and
iecure the perpetrator or perpetrators
tors, to be paid upon the conviction of them, or
any of them. And all Jnuge', Junices, Sheriff ,
Coroners, Constables, and other Officers ot the
Commonwealth (according to the duties of their
refpeftive llations) are hereby requtred ar.tl ei.-
joined, toernplovail lawful means,for diicover
ing, appreaending, securing, trying, and bring
in" to juflice, as well the perpetrator, and per
petrators of the said Murder, as also all other
persons aiding and allifting therein. j
Given under my hand and the great Seal of j
the State at Philadelphia, this twenty
fecond day of in the year of our j
Lord one thousand seven hundred and |
nlnetv-two, and of the Commonwealth i
the IWenteenth.
By the Governor.
A. J. DALLAS, Sec'ry of the Commonwealth. |
Bank of theUnitedStates,
RF. SOLVED,
THAT an Office of Discount and Drpofit, be
eftabiiftitd in the City of Richmond, Siate of
Virginia.
RESOLVED,
That the 2d Tuesday in September next be ap
pointed for the Election of Thirteen Directors and
a Cashier, for the Office of Discount and Deposit,
in the City of Richmond.
By Order of the Prcfidentand Direfiors,
JOHN KF. AN, Cafb-er.
NEW-Brunsw ICK
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circu-.uftances of a gentleman
who had undertaken to dispose of a propor
tion of the tickets in the New-Brunfwick Church
Lottery, having, in 1 is opinion, rendered it incon
venient for him further to proceed in the sale
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
ets are unexpectedly returned to ihe Re&or,
Church-Wardens and Vefhy-mt.n. This lays the
Managers under the neceflity of further adjourning
the drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of O&ober next, that they may have time to tranf
mii these tickets to the parts of the state where they
ate applied for, and leceive the returns As there
are but few tickets besides tliefe remaining on
hand, all persons who are disposed to promote the
pious object of this Lotteiy, or to take a chance
for the prizes therein, are requcfted to supply them
felvcs b\ the firft of OSober; and the gentlemen
appointed to dispose of them, arc desired to return
those to the Managers which then remain unfold,
to answer the applications of some gentlemen in
Ihe neighbourhood, who are postponed to this re
fomce for a supply.— And notice is hereby given,
that the tickets not returned to the Managers by
the eighth day of O&ober, will be conGdered as
at the risk of the holders.
N. B. Robert Morris, Esq. of New-Boinf
wick, is duly chosen one of the Manager* of the
fa id Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law.
TO BE SOLD,
(And poffeffioo given imnied lately)
A Valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
containing 213 acres, whereof 47 are wood
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made ; the
cleared land is under good fence, and is well
adapted to grass, and there being so much meadow,
a large stock may be raised : it is also natural to
wheat, and a proper attention to a well-kept stock,
will much improve its quality, and be the mod
profitable : it has a young orchard of 2CO apple
trees, a variety of peach and cherry trees, and ?
large garden. There are on the premises a hand
some two story stone house and kitchen, and an
elegant puzza ; also, a good barn, with stabling,
cow-house, granary, waggon-house, work-Slop,
and fmoak-houfe. The situation is high, pleasant,
and healthy, and affords lome very agreeable pro
fpe&s, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the main road to New-York, about a mile and a
half from Princrton, New-Jersey, and 43 from
this city. The till? was examined and approver
by eminent council before the fubferiber purchased.
For further particulars apply to the fubfciiber, at
No. 141, South Second-street, or at No. 81, South
Water-ftrcet, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
N. B. Stock, for the farm may be had of the pre
sent tenant.
Also, to be Sold, and entered immediately,
A two-rtory Br ck HOUSE and BAKE-HOUSE
in Arch-ftrect, No. 3, 16 feet two inches in front
and 102 feet in depth. Apply as above.
! u| y '7-
George-T own.
A dumber of LOTS in every iituation whiri
.fx. may be c'efired in C».tv of Washington
will be offered for faie by the C« mir.iflioners, c
Monday the Bth day of October next. One fourt
part of the money to be paid do.vn, the residue 1:
three equal annual payments, with yearly interci
on the whole priocipa! unpaid.
JOHN M'GANTT, Clerk
JUQC 2, 1792,
From Sepei^«eira^y^^^^^S^^&-,
An aothTiifc in& IritwM^WiiWMKf'''''
OFFICIAL L^TT£jSS^' , 5'
wricyn'idotidg the ÜBPfcfr; . •■'
And extracts from the
SECRET JOURNALS.
(For particulars, Jcc PropefiU a:large.)
Subfcript'ons arc received by tire principal
Bookfcilers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, ho. 26, Pear-Sir eel Philadelphia.
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold t/f THOU AS DO BSO N, and other
Booklellen in Philadelphia,
AC«ll<-aionof PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS; felefted from different
Authors, and publilhed by Order of the Con
vention holding the Do&rine of the Salvation of
allJMen, met in Philadelphia, May 25, 179'.
. Price of a fmgle book,bound. 3-Bthsof a Dollar,,
with good allowance tothofewbo take quantities.
Augult 4. (trptf.)
Siookieller, at tbf Stooc-Houfr, in Second-Sticrt,
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
Or a Ditftionarj of Arts, Sciences,
and MifceHaneons Literature,
On a plan entirely new : Br which the different
July 10, 1792,
This Gxth volume contains, among a variety o'
Dioptrics,oiftiilation,diving bell,art of drawing,
Dublin art of Dying, theory of the earth and earth
quakes, Ed'nburgh, education,jhiftory of Egypt,
Svftem of ele&ricity, history of England, engrav
ing, c flaying, history of Ethiopia, See. See. See.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper, 9nd
new types (cast for the purpose in Philadelphia)
which will be occafionaily renewed beiore they
contra# a worn appearance.
n 11. The work may be had in volumes or halj-vclumes\
•_ , it being proposed to deliver the volumes in
' n parts, at twenty fliillings(Prnnfylvania currency)
i_ each, in boards, or for the whole volume, five
c dollars, in boards. The volumes now finifhed
areto be paid for on delivery,and theprice otone
r, volume is to be paid in advance, ana the price
c of each fuccceding volume to De paid on de-
livering the volume preceding it.
111. In the course of publication will be exhibit
ed above five hundred copper plates, elegantly
engraved in Philadelphia ; which by far exceed
in number those given in any other fcientific
di&tonary. At the close of the publication will
be delivered, an elegant frontifpiece, the dedi
cation, prefacc, and proper title pages for the
different volumes.
%* As the very great expence attending the
undertaking, makes pun&uality of payment in
dispensably neceflary, the publisher flatters him
felf that fubferibers will be perfe&ly fatisfied
with his adhering ftri&ly to his original plan of
delivering the books only on receiving payment,
agreeable to the conditions of publication.
Subscriptions for the Encyclopedia y
Will continue to be received on the fame terms as
usual, till the firft of September, 1792, when the
price will be encieafed. Tin Dollars tobe
paid on fubfcriptioii, by those who have not fub
feribed before that time.
(cptOi)
Those who have fubferibed, but not taken their
books befoie that time, will be confidercd as not
having fubferibed.
As the fubfrription will probably be closed by
Christmas, such as chufe to be possessors of »h s
very valuable and important work, will do veil
to corr.c forward in time, that they may not be
disappointed. July 21. eptf
The Travels of Cyrus:
TO WHICH IS ANNEXED,
A DISCOURSE upon the THEOLOGY and
rHE Travels of Cyrus having gone through so
many editions io Europe, everything which
might be f » id to recommend so valuable a work,
is rendered ufclefs; and as it is now almofl, if not
entirely out of print, the publisher truth there
w.ll be little difficulty in procuring a refpe&able
' lift of fubferibers to an American Edition.
This work will be publiflied in one volume,
i2rao. on good demy paper, and a neat type; and
will contain about 350 pages.
1 he price to fubferibers wiil be One Doll \ r ,
to be paid on the delivery of the book, which
will be neatly bound and lettered.
The work (hail be put to press in October next,
provided there fnall be 250 fubferibers.
Any person fr.bfcribing for, or procuring sub-
Icribers for twelve books, and will be responsible
for the paTment, shall be entitled 10 two giatis
The names of fubferibers shall be pretirccd to
the work.
•'rivf)
Subscriptions received by mod of the
Booksellers in Philadelphia and New-York.
N. B. Gentlemen *ho maypleafet<- encourage
lie work by procuringfubfcr.p ons,aie icqucfted
> forward a Ml of the names lubfciibed. by t l e
•O'.n day of Octobir next.
to the ComaiifDoners.
C c P !f .
JUST PUBLISHED;
By Thomas Dobfon,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VI «f
foences and arts are digged into the form
Of difliri£t Treatifci or Sjfteau.
Illujlrated with twenty-two copper plates,
CONDITION'S)
PROPOSALS,
By ISAAC NEALE,
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
(The ninth edition of)
MYTHOLOGY of ihe PAGANS.
BY THE CHEVALIER RAMSAY
CONDITIONS.
tinlingteu, July 21 , ,-g.
r /
Treasury Department,
August 10, 1792.
\TOTICE is hereby given, that propofais wil.
i\ be received at the office of the Secretar y.
-he Treasury, until the twenty-ninfh day of Sep
tember nexi mciufive, foi the '.apply ol all Rations
-A-hich may be required for the use of the United
Srates, from ihe fiift day of January to the thirty,
firft day of December, 1793. both days inctafive,
at the places, and with.u the diftncls hercaftei j
r.entioned, viz.
t. At any place or places betwixtYotk-Town &
Carl fle,inthe state of Pennfvlvan.a t and Ptclburgh,
and at Ptlrfburgh, York-Town and Cafliflr.
2. At any place or placrs from Putfburph to thr
-month of Big Beaver Cretk, anc at tne mouth ot
Big Beaver Creek.
3. At any place o r plaecs the said mouth to
the upper falis ot the ia:d Big Beaver, and at the
upper fails.
4. At anv place or places from the said upper
Falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any piaee or placcs from the said Mahoning
jvc to the Head Navigation of the River Caya
hoga, and at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any ptaceor places from the said Head Na
vigation to the mouth of the said Rivet Cayahoga,
and at the said mouth.
'"-a
7. At My place or places betwixt the mouth of
the Big Seaver Creek to the mouth of the River
Mufkiagutn, and up the said River to the Tufra-
Irnwj!, and at the Tufcarowas. and thence over to
[the Cayahoga Ritctj and thence down the said
River to its mouth.
8. At anyplace or places betwixt the mouth of
the River Mufkingum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, and at the mouth of '.he said River Scioto.
9. At any place or places betwixt the mbuth of 1
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami, I
at the mouth of the Great Miami, and from tbeace!
to the Rapids or the Mis of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.' '
10. At any place or places bet wixt the mouth of
the Great Miami, up the said Miami to and at
Pique Town.
11. At any place or places from Fort Walbington
to fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
place or places from Fort Hamilton to Fort St.
Clair, atid at Fprt St. Clair.
12. At any place or places from Fort St. Clair to
Fort Jefferfon, and at Fort Jefferfon.
13. At anv place or places from Fort Jefferfon to
the field of action of the 4th of November, 1 791,
and at (he said field of action.
14- At aav place or placet from the said field of
aSiooto the* Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villager
tj. At any place or places from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls of (he Miami River, which
empties into Lake Erie, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at iu mouth.
16. At any place or places from the mouth of ihe
said Miami River of Lake Erie toSaududcy Lake,
and at Sandufky Lake.
17. At any place or places from *he said Sandufky
Lake to the mouth of the River Cavahoga.
18. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said River Cayahoga to Prefque Isle, and at Prefque
Isle.
19. At any place orplaces fromPrefque Ifie to the
running into Lake F.rie from towards the
Lake, and thence over to and at the
laid Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alleg
hany River to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place or places fromPiefquelfle toLc
Beuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or olaces from I.e Beuf to Fort
Franklin, and at Fon Franklin, and from thence
to Pittfourgh.
22. At any place or p!aces from thf Rapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of the W-ibafh River, and from
the mouth of the (aid Wabafh River to the mouth
of the River Ohio.
23. At anv place or places on the East fide of the
River Miffiflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the Illionois River.
I 24. At any place or places oq the Eaftfideof the
jMiffiflippi, between the mouth of the Ohio and
the River Margot incluftvely.
o " J •
25. At any place or places from the (aid River
Margot to the River Yazous inclusively.
26. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said Wabafh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fort
Knox.
27. At any place or places from Fort Knox, up
the said Wabath, to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
28. At any place or places trom Ouittanon,up the
said Wabafh, to the head navigation of a branch
thereof called Little River, and at the said bead
navigation of Little River.
29. At any place or places from the said head na
vigation of Little River over to the Miami Village.
30. At anv place or places from the mouth of the
River Tcneflee to Occochappo or Bear Creek, on
the said Rivei, inclusively.
31. At any place or places from the mouth of the
River Cumberland to Nashville, on the laid River,
and at Nashville.
And at any place or places within »hirty miles
of said Nashville to the Southward, Weft ward or
Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any places, or
within other dittn£b, not fpecified in these pro
posals, the price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied arc to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or | of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar. \
Two pounds of soap, >P" >°°
One pound of candles, )
The rations are to be furniflied in such quanti
ties as that there (hall at all tune?, during the said
term, be fufiicient for the consumption of the
troors at each of the fa ; d prfts, f«> r the space of at
least three mon; hs in advance, in good and whole
some pioviGons. if ihe fame (hall be required.
I: is to be understood in earh cale, that all lofT
fulWmed by the depred rons o 1 the enemv, n r i.
means of the trooo« >»f the United States, iball 1 <
V-a'.d for at 'he 01 ice* of ihe articles rjptured or dr
ftroved, on thr: drooft ion* of tvooi more crer 1 - <i-
Sle ch uaders, and the c ir;fi :• eo' j rormr ifljon
ed *(•' itthe t rcumftance* o* the
loss, and »h«* amoim aniclcs loi which com
penfarten is daimcc .
The contra A for i he a'->
cither foi one ycai, or .o
( C P 3")
eligible. Persons difpof.d to iLr,
iore confine their cifers to one >ear. or tvv ft
trnke their propofmons io a* to'admit iL • „," V
of the term of two yeais. 11
The offers roav comprise al! the places wSi-'
have teen fpec.fied, or a pan of tfu. . ()l: •. " lJ
i oo Dollars Reward.
T OST on Cambridge Com mm, UtSMhVftiu
—4 on the afternoon of .he tS h uli. ,v, , '
POCKET-BOOK, .ith a fteeicUfp,™™
number of \a •i.o.c among which weie
tic »o lowing Pcstic Stcu«lTi!:, v -
M.tfccUu.e. s S.„ e No o- Mo
Decemoer ,1782, „a> ,bl. ;o-l' --t
■■■"*■23 i6j. pnnc.ua!—So. r . M . '
nuary 1, IJBS, payab;? o \;i u , t : r, {
£ 101 .0.. n incipal. So. ci, . d U,,'„„ v
1 * 1 7® 2 » l an army not-) oayable to Timothy
tor /. 8 8/. id. principal.—Xo.——,"a X
i.he number, da-.e, a:.J io whom payable, no*
known tor £.$ o/. prinnna'.—One Indcc;
Ccnhcaie.for Four Dollars, and a New-Hamp.
Ihire Certificate tor aoout £-\z payable to 1 "t
and Daniel Jenks ; aifo z ncmlier of Motes of Hartd
.ie ot which was for £..572 given by A'a'hj
lion AlO Samuel TV. Pomeroy (by whom it *«$ tiu
dor fed) dated lit May, 1792, and povablc on
: Ith Aycufl following ; me others were all j.aya
t ie to The Securities are checked
ihe different "fßccs from whence ihey were
• iTued, and the Notes of Ha-d by the d-fferem
igners, they can tnere:ore be of 00 use to ai.v bul
the owner.
i The Subfcriberhereby offers a reward of On e
Hundred Do li a* j to anv person or pertons
who has found ihe f?m", ?nd will return th» m 10
him, or leave them wi'h the Printer hereof, and
no qucfuons w:ll be asked.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Sakm, Majfadl-jfetts, Atgujl 1, i ;<)■>. ( C pi|)
Stock Brokers Office,
Grezt Dock-street. >• tw-Yoax,
The $nbfcriber intending to confine hioifelf
entirely to the PURCHASE akb SAIE at
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Bega leave to offer
bit fervicet lo his friend* and others, in the line
of a Slock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with their bofinefs, may depend upon
having it tranCafied with the nlmoft fidelity and
dispatch.
Order* from Philadelphia,Bofton, br any other
part of the Uoiled Scales will be ftrifily attend
ed to.
War s.
Ebenezer Hazard,
STOCK-BROKER,
HAS Removed his OFFICE to No. isSnorth
Second-Street, where he continues to purchase
and fell on Com ratflion, Certificates rf e'ebt of ibe
United, and Individual States, Bank Stock, Canal,
and Turnpike Shares, See. &c.
(£3*" Subscribers to the Universal Tontine who
have not vet received their Certificates are delirtd
to call for them.
July .8.
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY.
Thomas james, wax chandler,
from Lcndon, refpe&fnlly informs the pt'b.c
that he has eftablifkcd a Manufactory of the above
branch, at the upper end of Mulberry-Street,New-
York, where Merchants, Captains of Vcfliclf,
Drugoifts, and i'arailiej, mav be supplied with
excellent and pure White Wax Candles, White
Wax in Cakes, Tapers, Wax'd Lamp Wicks,
Flambeaux, &c. warranted equal to any made in
London, and twenty percent, cheaper.
Ordeis in this and the adjacent States, rece vd
bv Mr. John Goodeve, Bridge-Street, Mr.
William Fro3isher, Fletcher-Street, and al
the Manufactory, where samples may be seen.
N. B. Bees-Wax t2ken in payment, or bleached
an moderate terms.
New-York, Jul/ 19, 1792.
TERRITORY OF COLUMBIA.
June 28. 179?*
PURSUANT to the last Will and Tertarner,ta£
the late Rev. Alexander Williamson,
deceased, will be expoied to Public Sale on 1
day, the nth of Odober nexr,at Georgetown,
011 a credit of three years, the purclfafers givin?
bond with approved fecurity,to bear intereftfrom
the date—That valuable Seat of Land, in
mery county, called Hay es ; thelate dwelling
olantation of the deceased, containing between nx
■1 nd seven hundred acres, the greateil part of whic
.5 rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very confiderab e
quanutv r.l fine meadow ; —Situated ahout6 I.— J
!'om the Federal City,and the famednt ncetroiu
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, anu a
emaikable healthy part of the country.
The improvements are, a very elegant two ory
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
caiTage, or entry, on a floor and the neecfiaryou -
houses. HENRY TOWNSEND,)
BENJ. STODDERT, > E*«uU»rs.
cptO) THOMAS JOHNS, )
TERRITORY OF COLUMBIA.
Julv 6,179'-
THE Subscriber offers for Sale, a MiH-S" 1
Rock Creek, deemed by hose who
| mined it. equal to anv intheVmred . ' 0 f
Mill-House mavbr placed within or.f q uarl
a mile of -he r.ver Potomac, half a mile
| tM<r inarkrt house in Georgetown, ana ° ( n
'icmthe fquaie, in thecitv
on tidc "J* 1 if
•ral hundred bu'Vls burthen. I- ( , pn es (
ifncicn'.the year round,to turn four pair j t
• -ad «he fall mav be made 'rom 2~ mj* fyck
J < utmec-ffary to dwell on the advantage*
L filuatinn. , w .j.h«
The purchaser m?v be accommodii tco
j 1 w hundred acres of land adjoining the »
jit, l, ,r fh-vr J l - p an o'rj.cd.
oym 14 Jul)
at fOL'RSAL > h ' ILit
oj Ml• SEX ill »/' Ike VSITED STATJ, .
kadoj the Ediitr htreaf*
"if'S '
iadc
oe«r
LEONARD BLEECKER
(t.f.I
(ep.tf)
[«;»■]
B. STODP r " T '