ojfHi
[No. 45, of Vol. IV.]
A CHARGE, ; jnyielt tliey confliintlv w'u! >e, furl am Derfuad
/' •:V7- "t? the CXJXD JUR Y jor the 7 ad the more they are attended m, the ttroude.
A.nljticnujMs, 1,1 the in cult Com! oj the United "'ill be their im >re(lion. An enli-'htcned IhhTf
States Jor the fud Dijtnr! held in the Town oj of the true interelt of each individual, will na
Boston, on tne , «4 oj Odober, , 792, by turally lead him to a proper efti,nation of ,hoS
Tn.' Hjh. JAIViKS IHEOSLL, Esq. principles best calculated to secure it. But i
fine oj the Associ ar 1. Just i ess oj the Si> r r imi 1' S 1 dl " t0 ex P cl % l ct have what form o
Com oj the li»niD Surn, j S ov< ; l nment we will, that the laws enacted un
j der it, however ivife and patriotic, will -
— — . ..»»wcr wile and patriotic, .. . meet
Ccntlem nof ike Grand Jurv, J v i UJ, j niuch less with refpe&ful obedi
[N having the honour to address you -fjr tv-lum, !,! r!! loc * ct ' es ere . l>e bad raen »
L fir:l ti:'., in mv judicial ca:> icitv,'ldo it v. Ufa! t ™ T a "- v P r,n "P le , can restrain i
'•Articular (UnslUiU,, at a p.-ioci 'of f„ „,uch» u^iin^'r^''"'''- Ca,,ly . " i,ilcU A b >' ar,ful
iignit;. and probity W»thc United State,:-' mav therefore
'erhaps in no country in the v/orld have beer; to 'dellrnv th- a . '
vithin so f:w years exemplified Inch awful and I which it i- Doinb'i: f r hi'™ ' t go, ' er "V' ei
mportant leflbns. We ha,, b,en taught, notj when ' 7 t ° tor "'-
1 « 1 x*i*i 1 . a ' ' "Per tneteiore a ffoverwuient is formed one
July the value of liberty, but what Itv/as much! nf Hi.- u ' tQ? ° ~e
more d't'icuit to learn/that liberty itle'.f, inor-i v defo 1- its own" "T"'
Her to oc tn.lv enjoved, mul. iubmit to realon-, "I A J LZ" by.gua^ing
able and con,to,ate reft Tfaeunbouod-I o tal c'efttnft onTf" lne "' e '^ ,or
in /• . si ■ . , ,Cf> lurai c.citruution, 01 for any material iniury
cd liberty of tfaeftronget man .s tyranny to the; t „ it,, a „y 0 f it, operation,, Th s giveVrife
M-eakefl: ; T; e unlimited sway of a mtjanty u to w!iat is usually' te. rned th Criminal L-, a
opprelfi >11 to U 1 ;nont> . Umscewwd mdttl-'law which la : for its object the pnniihinent of
Eeace.to aU V c r alhon« of m «, „an impious j bad acW, by which the security or.weltare of
rejsft.on ol c ? ,,tr.i,l o; r,a on , • ,c„ 2>rov , t ; le immunity is in ,„ v cffent £, j e „_
'<■"> ' *-'ver- -nf :: ,ft s
rcclion.
True
■ • : i iiW being t'ii true and only proper obieft of
L ": : " in ,u *; :c " the Cnmin.il Liw it fcould be calculated to
h^''V :i: tbi- ami tbk uloi.e. At the fame
p " L,i - 11 I' 1"' 1 - : tune ta.it it i-. .-iiicaciou-, it fliould be as ir.il.l
t., ? who!ere r " . I,t* . xaft met, urn it way; Bs the nature of the cafe will admit of. In pro
bed jftcu.t U ..ml, but we nave re.,:on to hope vid'.ngfur ti.e deteftioaand pnnilhment of the
■ r ,1 ,:i ,:i ii '!)' to be found in taat country| guilty, it fliould be careful to fec.ne the fafetv,
:" , V u y ■' "V 0: 5? e.t.*r d.-; ; .,,d guard reputation of the innoccnt. i
r : ;r' vA J'' '' T ; VCI ? ";?*'• >""•* °»e of the mod awful concerns of human
i J . .\'V ' , ' c /' c °| r- ,o * ,c j iegiftation, and that in which perfooal liberty
1 ,tv ' 1 ca '> ( and fafety are more immediately interested
" lu " 1 . ''• ce * 1 e lllodifica 1 1 :an any other, the utmost attention ought in
'V r • ; hH 1 important good can boja very especial manner to be paid in this cafe,
e 1 J . '• re ," • tl) 1 ,j in order to prevent-an abule of authority en
mm™. - " u ''- v j tr ufteel for the nioft J acred purpole for which
° k '- s " J fa ' r a4,cl ai ' c quate repje-j any authority can bs. Every law on such a
: - • " : "' c ? e *. f . :ire r "" c - v ; *-•'}*& ou-.ht to be j villi:! with the most trem-
f u -\ ° , '' ' " obe 1 ' tei folic'.tude, left any unfortunate individual
- ' . liJ ' : V ; ! :,L:;tc ' I -h-»u id become the vidlim of iniuitice or opnref
<' i: - ■ ;•« as of t io Um ted States, unde. which j fion.
" ' .i.v nds to live. I 'l'i.e ConftitutioiVof the United Stater, dif
ivl my i 1" ti s, bot!i antiei ta;;d modern,have j tinguifhed as it is in all its parts for an invari
J °;y ot • 1g " to- t •:: :e .fj able attention to at; ue and rational spirit oi
; ' ' 1 •■' - ' ' no.,:e ai.i virtu j freedom, !. a; not been inattentive to it in this
I ' l -" ; Ary rir i. fbe ve, f»v -vfh- J its most iin«v»' ti' t c T v ' .-t- r- " ; '
"•• ' -e oi a IU-..1 »e oi po ;v cr iu. ; t > J,:ati ve dilcrctiorj. Reftrir". ions ar-:
' • ' ' • -i :: w'c ■ l •■.'a!, i i cider to render fee lire I'eyond t ne
~ ''' ''*•••> v ■ in: rii j pe-: . ! 1 1 v oi'attack, the fifetv of the
> f 'i v.":.ch they fepar.;tel) peop.e in cases v. lie re it might other wife be
; .i", a mo:e pe;f. - Ibmetirnes cypn-'ed to no frnall danger. A lati
in \ ■' • ell ,e. I\..- luaceis tudc of discretion, I believe, has been left in nc
1l ii ' ' " . inlit nine ck. Ec- inltance where it could be :a'ely ;;v >ided.
,a ; !,i ® 1 <t, t.iar-oo fir. c 'ueiU di:ap- Tl ere is one crime in particular, which it
- a ken the e;:L c> of io magna- was jnftly thought proper the Constitution it
limous a.. •: ' .. ! b!f ihonld define. Ti-at-is, the crime of Trea-
In confequciv.e of this great revolution,more on. This undoubtedly is the highest crime
"a-de t awd t;le > gl->r'ious t- an the 1:r 4 .r. known in the law, be car. re it aim sat the sub
ire have now two government? to which wt verlion of the Government, and of course ai
>we 01-ed jce •T: e relpedUve irate Govern- the deftru( c iion of all the private happiness anc
iieuts in all ioilanee- which concern t e inter- public fScurity derived, from it. But at the
!<h of etc l < ■ ture j.'/ :i e Ct)-, ernire ;t c( ikme time, it is a crime in the prosecution o:
he U'i -a '>ta. sin all instances v/hich concern which great abu es are liable to be committed
he iutsreus >1 l';e Union at large. Each of if the government is left altogether without re
:faefe .gover lmeats is fbvereign and supreme, ffcrairt, because m'ually the whole arm of pow
vithin th. i\ ■e i -:>he eof its ant: oriiy. The er is exerted a ,;inlt the person accirtd, an<
■'ommon o ; . ;<• j- the hnpp'mefs of 'all therefore refer.tment mav be apt to have ten
; .ecV i - ns. ■ ' i'r l , v ' nut ei . " • on, so powerful an operation. In Monarchies, when
ar as it is p >1: 'e "jr systems cf government to the person of the Monarch is apparently if no
ecure it. The ;er-n'iar o'vje:l of t : ? sole object of attack, a man unde
pent of the h nted S-utes is to cement by an trial for this offence, may frequentlyexpeft tl;i
uleftive, not a no» i nal arhority, that union iympathy of the people, who in such countrie
o which, under divine Providence, we unquef- often suppose (and sometimes with great truth
ienably owe all the bleHlngs we nowerpy,and 1 that their in fete ft and that of the Monarch an
without a pre'fervatii.m of which, M r e l-.u'd too far fro/n being the fame.—But in a Republic
rob. in.-/ '■••-come a >to inr.-Oi- e e'.i'cord, and w!:ere the Government, the fubverHon of whicl
uid ourlelves the miserable c>f local and is aimed at, is truly the Government of tin
ronfli&ing pursuits. People, there may be great danger of the per
To consult the welfare of each citizen indi- j son accused being the objed: of a strong popuia
'idually; the welfare of each State feoarately;; prejudice, as well as of a legal proiecution
.he common welfare of the whole ;>. tly; I'o Jf therefore there be at such a period any am
ar as they can all be rendered compatible ; are biguity in the definition of the crime, or th.
»reat and noble objeds, wcrchv of our mcir mode of # t rial be unfavorable to the security o
zealous care, and r.ioft a lrcinitted attention, the person exposed to it, there cast be no rea
Fiie talk is certainly not easy, but we have no son to expedt a fair and impartial trial. Th
eafon to fear it is altogether impracticable. — Constitution has guarded against the firft dan
Moderation and good ienfe, however, are ne- per, by a plain and express definition, elearl;
:etfary to perpetuate, as they were at iirft to comprehending real, and not conftruftive a(ft
tlient to measures calculated to secure perhaps of treason. Against the latter, it has not onl
he grcateft ble/Tlnjs ever deviled by any human u(ed the precaution of particularly fpecifyinj
yftems. Let each man consider, that his li- the evidence which fliall alone be fufflcient for :
yrty and property cannot be fee tired without conviction j but there is in common with aliothe
orn?mg a common interest with all the other crimes, the great and ineltimable security of
nembers of the focicty to which he helonos ; Trial by Jury.
that this Common interest can only be protected This excellent method of trial may, in re'
;>y the c of common councils, and a j pest to criminal cases, be considered as divide
lubnit(nori to laws framed to give them effect ;! into branches. I. For the ptirpofe of accufa
and thar a 5 each State nature '>• ami tion. 2. For the final decision. The fir ft
i; the guardian of its own separate anvl indivi- Gentlemen, is the and important charac
mial interests, so the I 1 :ii'ed States ear. alone ter now devolved on you. No person is to b
rip;hth.:'y determine in cases in which not one held to answer any capital or other infamou
State iuigly, but ail the "tates have a common crime of a civil nature, committed within tbi
find united concern. Providence has deligned diftri»st ajamft the laws of the United States
man for focety, rd tho(ewh.>C':;he»' from p. except t:pon yeur prefeatment or indi Anient
or vanity, or any worfi motive, rciufe to yiefd Any person, wit*, out'diftinelior, may, upon you
.to thecondii-.'-ns it indi benfablv require", conn- authority, be put upon Ins trial for such. Fron
tera ; > tar as in them lies, the pro"i.ions cf your impartiality there is the utmost reason t
divine " if ,»m for the good order and govern- expect that no proiecution will be commence'
ment of reankind. | without grounds, or forborne from any undu
, an' 4 ovyv
i hcfe pr rcip?e*s should Le ever present to
our mind*, aid to a majority I flatter
A NAiIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SA IT . D
motive. ~As members of the focietyyourfeives,
you will not fail to coniider the necellity of a
Saturday, No\ mber 5, 1792.
177
V JollX FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, FHII. A Dhl.l'Hl A
! d " c t-jntenance of the laws of it: As men who
~ ' n ' b; ynu own pv.;edent
i will the importance of cltabliftiing nona that
, may he applied to an opprelfive purpose. Thele
! circuinftances, in t benife 1 ; f'o favorable to
imparf.alty, added to the solemn obligation of
[duty, will naturally inspire the public with con
fidence, the guilty with terror, and save the in
nocent from alarm.
But, Gentlemen, how noble is the thought,!
how condolatory the reflection, that after youj
! have deliberately weighed, and solemnly pre-!
' I'jnted, an accusation any man, another'
trial yet remains, a public one, in the face of;
the accused ; a trial by another jury of his fel
low tit'/.ens r with the full afliftance'of counsel,
with the right and the opportunity of summon
ing wiueffes for his defence, with the right al
so, in capital cases, of peremtorily challenging a
large number of thejurors, called upon his trial,
(in treason thirty-five, in other capital offences,
twenty) accompanied also with other privile
ges, 1 believe never granted in the fame ex
tent in any other laws, the having delivered
not only a copy of the indictment and a lift of
the jury, ar.il witnesses in prosecutions for
1 reason, but a copy of the indictment and a
lift tifi-J'.-j Jury, in other capital prosecutions, a
c*ri -,|| time I- i'o the trial. lit molt cases of
trealon and mifprifion of treason, a',l thele ad
vantages exirt in England, in their fuileft ex-
Fai: in all other capital cases, (aftoniih
'"g as it is) at tliis very dav, in that enlighten
ed country, counsel are not allowed to speak to
_ any but questions of law, and it is considered a
I' matter of favor in the court, to permit them
even to alk queftlons for the prisoner. It is
, ind.isd a mod melancholy consideration, that
loiv aiter liberty had been contended for, and
to a gi'-at degree obtained, as to other objetts,
tii? personal fafety of individuals fliould have
been so little regarded. It was thought to re
quire laws in England, fame years after the re
volution, in :688 (one indeed even so lata as
Queen Anne) to entitle a prisoner to have wit
nen examined 011 oath, in his defence. Ac
cording to an iniquitous practice originally in
troduced, as there is great reason to believe,
without any colour of law, prisoners had nor
only been excluded from this privilege, but al
io from being allowed a full defence by counsel;
and this unprincipled practice had so long pre
val' 11 t'j; it at length acquired the pretext of
on bni'nnnouiitable prescription. Happy are
that p.eopie whole liberties depend, not on the
mercy or discretion of courts, but 1 pon written
provilions, too plain to be misunderstood, and
protested in the most sacred manner, by guar
dians too watchful and too powerful tn be over
come !
tenk
The Constitution itfelf, together with amend
ments to it, which have received the requisite
consent, secure the invaluable benefits I have
mentioned, of a trial by jury, of a public trial
in the face of the ncufed, of having precefs- for
witnefles, and the assistance of counsel. The
other advantages enumerated, form part of the
Criminal Code, derived from the Legillature
alone,,and partake of that discerning zeal, for
the real security and true happiness of ali the
citizens, which lb eminently diftinguifli a Go
vernment, founded on the very basis of freedom
aVid ju-ftice.
Another protection, gentlemen, in laws whose,
spirit of mildness and liberality we cannot 100
much admire, is a limitation of time for the
pFofccution of, offerees. No capital o&nce
(murder or forgery excepted) is to be profecu
ted but within three years after the commiflion
of it, nor any prosecution for any oil . nce not
capital, or for any fine or forfeiture under any
1 penal statute, but within two years after the
i commiifion of the offence, or the incurring of
the forfeiture. There is an exception, how
ever, in both inftauces, of persons fleeing from
j oft ice. This also, in its extent, is an improve
ment, I believe, on former systems.
The crimes, gentlemen, of which you are to
enquire, are crimes committed a«ainft the
United States within this diftrift. These are
defined and the punishments prescribed, in cer
tain a&s ofCongriifs, pal Ted in virtue of pow
ers contained in the Constitution of the United
States. They will be found, I trust, all of them
congenial to the spirit of a free people, the
principle of whose aim it invariably is, and
ought to be, to unite all the energy necessary
for the support of Government, with an inflex
ib!e attention to the proper security and pro
tection of individuals. It does not appear to
! me material now to point them out particular
ly to von, not only because I presume you are
. we 1 acquainted with riloft if not all of them, and
can have easy access to them, but because I
have reason to hope you have no occasion at
this time to present many, if any particular j
offences- The very favorable accounts I have ;
every where heard, since I have had the pleasure
of being on this Circuit, of the good order and
refpecVful fubiniiHon to the laws which univer
fillv prevail in it, have given i;:e the utmost fa
ti«fa.ftion. In addition to my own personal ob
fervati<i>ns, they have imprefTed me with the
highest refpeft for a people who have bad the
good i'enfe so happily to combine an invincible
spirit of freedom, with an enlightened regard
for such a government and such laws ,as car
alone be adequate to secure it. May this ex
[Whole No. 567.]
ccllent difppfition forever prevail ! May it be
t A arded wilh a-; much happine<s ;.s it is pofKble
tor men to enjoy ! And may th« true fpiric ol
freedom and order united, aftutte all virtuous
citizens of* the kJnion, to the end of time ! !
FROM THE AMLRH AN DAILY ADVERTISER-
J MR. Dunlap,
j Pe p/e.ifeJ to ivjert the fallowing, as a Supplemental
I Aote to No. 11, in your paper of the 10th itiji.
i "\/\7" HEN tlie ext'afts explaining Mr. JefFer
j V V fun's political principles, refpefting the
i constitution, were sent to the pref«, with an
Intimation that" the originals fiiould be made
acceflible if necefTary, it was with reason con
cluded that no man of candor would entertain
any doubt of their authenticity A writer, un
der the fignatnre of Catullus (who, notwith
standing his ridiculous transfer of his author
ship, is evidently the original writer under the
signature of An American) has beep To far want
ing in this virtue, as to contradict so rational a
supposition. To put an end to all possible ca
vil on this fubjeft, notice is now given, that
any gentleman of known honor and delicacy
who (hall be named to the Editor of the Ame
rican Daily Advertiser, fliall have an opportu
nity ol exair:tiling not only the passages ettrzfl
ed, but the entire contents of the original let
ters. It fortunately happens, that irom <\e
writer's practice of mentioning in every letter
the date of the preceding one, it is demonstra
ted by the letters themselves thattheyform the
whole of this correspondence within the i "f
---lary period. The propriety of requiring u „it
nefs in this cafe of the above description ac
counts for itfelf. In the freedom of iin exteiir
five correspondence with a confidential friend,
it could not but happen that many things must
be included not only irrelative to the fubjeft in
question, but to any other of a pnblic nature,
and which though unexceptionable in their
place, fiiould never leave the depository of
private honor. With refpeft to the letter of
July 6, 1788, publiihed in your paper of the
10th instant, this sagacious commentator has
been as unlucky, as in all his other inferences
from presumptive aircumftances. It is neither
the letter spoken of by Mr. Pendleton, nor
written to the fame person. Had the critic,
however, been possessed of less sagacity, with
„the smallest particle of candor, lit- might eafilv
have reconciled the statement given by Mr.
Pendleton with the extra# in question. The
bill of rights mentioned in the latter might
surely be called, either by Mr. Jefferfon, in ano
ther letter, or by Mr. Pendleton, stating, in
his own language, the contents of the one he
saw, an enumeration of the amendments wish
ed to be secured. Every particular right secu
red is, in fact, an amendment, ar.d is so desig
nated in the amendatory supplement to the con
stitution. It is painful to wafle a moment in
explanations which seem to be so unnecelTary ;
yet, as a fpeeimen of tie manner in which the
attack on an illustrious patriot is cpndudted, it
may not be unworthy of attention.
Foreign Affairs.
BRUSSELS, August 24.
MLa FAYETTE was taken in the
. following manner :—On the
19 th, St ten in the evening, a pat role,
confining of seven men, belonging to
the advanced porta of Rochefort, in
Ardennes-, in the Bifhoprick of Leige,
where M. Harnoncourt commands,
met with a number of French officers,
followed by about twenty domestics.
They were on the point of being 6r
ed at by the picquet guard, but in
stantly one of the strangers quitted
his company, and was conduced to
M. Harnoncourt.
This |eai!cman wag M. Bureau de
Pufy, officer of engineers. He de
clared that his friends and himfelf
were French emigrants going to Hol
land. M. Ramoncourt asked
how it happened that they were not
going to join the Princes ? M. Bureau
answered, that, differing in opinion
ifromtherS, they preferred going to
! Holland. M. Harnoncourt told him,
[that they mull te ffeated as prifon
|ers of war. Not one of the whole
company objected to giving hi* pa
role, except M. Alexander Lametb,
who began a fine speech on the rights
of nations, and fa id that they were
arvefted in a neutral country. They
were then on the territories of the
principality of Leige. M. Harnon
court anfwered,tbat the French had
been so extremely clever in confound
ing all kinds of rights, and the rights
of nations in particular, that it wasHO WQfcder if mistakes (hoold be ihc
confe<justice. i M. de Lametb threat
fngii to write lo M. Up
Harnouconrt ?w*s not ihtiwidafed i
and tbofe geiuleroan are faf<? in Na
niur, '«bere they are to reniairi until
the duke of Briinfwick decides oif
their fate. They have <,leclpved,that
the army which they have quitted is
encamped behirtd la Chiere, between
Mouzoii and Sterai. It is laid that
M. la/ayette h*d attempted to found
the dispositions of his (o)diers, and j
finding that they had refulved to l
*ihoot him, and being desirous hiinfelt
■of living a little.longer, he took the
firft opportunity to pnfs into an ene
niy's country.
Every day fre(h prisoners are bro'c
to Luxemburg. On the evening
previous to the raising the camp at
Montfort, 38 French prisoners were
■conducted to it, that the Prufiians
might fee them. Among these were
fix peasants. The Duke of Brunf
wick sent for them, gave them a fe-
Trere reprimand, and lent theiu back
to their own country
The Pruflian army having, on the
Bth in raised the camp
it Monrfort, marched four leagues
awards tilt French territories, and
rfFe&ed a jon&ioil with the army ot
general Clairfayt. These combined
forces encamped the fame evening
on the French territories, at two
leagues distance from Thionville ;
their right extending as far as Long
•wi. The king of Prufiia slept in the
Chateau de Bettenburg, only . one
league distant from the French fron
tiers.
On the 19th, 18 waggon loads of
bricks were carried from Luxemburg
to Greven maker, to build ovens with,
'and to make a Boulangerie de Cam
pagne,
Letters received from Luxemburg,
lated the 20th instant, inform tisrhat
he fortrefs of Longwi is taken by tlie
ombined armies, and that on the 2tit
i battalion was to march from Lux
stnburg togairifon that fortrefs. By
another letter we i ave the following
details :—" The intention of the ar
my was to scale the place ; but be
fore preparations for that pnrpofe
could be made, the garrison, whose
answer to the firft summons was, that
every man was resolved to be buried
under the ruins of the fortrefs, sur
rendered without attempting to make
the least defence ! They were all
made p>ifoners of war ; they were
in number 1800, and were conducted
to Luxemburg. The Prussian Bou
langeries were immediately removed
to Senger. The troops are in full
march to meet M. Luckner, [now
Kellerniau] who is encamped with
25,000 men, under the walls ofMetz.
TRANCE
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
Settember 3.
M. Baignoux, member of the com
miflion of general fafety. read to the
aflembly a report made by the com
miflioners of the community, respect
ing ihe-ev«Qta as the preceding night,
of which the followingis an abltratft:
The cominiflion affesnbled duringthe
suspension of the night fitting, being
informed by several citizens, that the
people were continuing to rush in
great tin tubers towards the different
prisons, and were there exercising
their vengeance, they thought it ne
cessary to write to the council gene'-
ral of the community, in order that
they might learn officially the true
ftaie of things. Hie community feni
back word, that ihhey had ordered
a deputation to go, and give an ac
count to the cominiflion of what had
happened. At two o'clock the depu
tation confifling of Meflis. Tallion
Tronchon, and Cuiraut, were intro
duced into the hall of the aflbmbly
*1. Trouclu.ll then said [hat the great
er part of ihe prisons were empty •
that about hundred prisoners
had been maflacred ; that he had
thought it prudent to release all pri
loners confined for debt at the prison
of La *01 ce, and that he had done
the lame thing at St. Pelagie. That
vhen he returned to the community
be recollected that he had forgot to
visit that part at La Force whe. e the
-women were confined , ,hat he i m .
mediately returned, and set at liber
ty twenty.four. That h e and his
colleagues had taken under, heir par
tic'ujar protection,, Madame T ourzelle
and Madame Saint Brice, obl'erving
, Hat the latrer wad pregnant, and that
ihey condu&cd these' tvfro ladies to
ilie lection (des Droits de I'iiomine)
of ilie Rights of j)4«wi",'to be kept there
Vli) ihey are tried.
i in- 'i;i{.lt proceeded nexr to tlie
Chatelet, where they likewile facri
riced all the prisoners. About mid
night they were collected round La
Force, to which the coin miliionei s in
ilantly repaired, but were not able
1) prevail on the people todeliit from
their fuuguinary proceedfrigs. Seve
ral liepuiations were fucceilively sent
toirs iftheycotild reltoie ti i.'rtjui
!ity ; and orders were given to the
commandant general 10 draw out de
tachments of ihe National Guards ;
but as the service of the barriers re
quired t'uch a great number of men,
\ fufficiency was not lefi to repref's
|the audacity of the populace. The
Commiflioners once more attempted
to bring back the ungovernable and
[infatuated multitude to a I'enfeofjul
jtice and humanity ; but they could
not make the lealt impreflidn oh their
minds, or check their ferocity and
vengeance.
! M. Guiraud, a third commiflioner,
(aid, " We proceeded to the Bicetre
with seven pieces of cannon. The
people, though they exercised theii
vengeance, rendered jullice, howe
ver, to debtors ; many of them were
released amidst the clashing of arrjis
and fhnuts of viz* /a nation. The prj
f.ins of the Palais, he added, were all
empty, and that very few of those
confined in thein had escaped death." '
M. Gniraud mentioned, that the
people were searching thi bodies on
the Pont Neuf, anil colleifling their
money and pocket books, to have
thein deposited in feme place of fafe
ty —A man found dealing a handker
chief was instantly put to death. He
added, that he forgot to mention one
fact,-which, he laid, did honor to the
people :—" In the different prisons
thej-formed a tribunal, confiding of
i2'perfons, after examining i lie gaol
er's book, and asking different ques
tions, the judges placed their hands
upon the head of the prisoner, an !
said, " do you think that ? i our con-j
faiences we can release tliis gentle
man ?" This word release was
demßation. When they giifw-red
yes, the accused person was f'et at li
berty in appearance, and immediate
ly dashed upon the pikes of the for-
If they were judg
ed innocent, they were released ti
mid It the shouts of—Vive la Nation."
The Afiembly ordered this report
to be printed.
The ininifler for the home-depart
ment coiuuiunicated to the Aflembly
a letter from Sedan, which announc
ed that the enemy had entered Ste
nay, and that they were preparing
to attack Montmedi. The admini
strators of Sedan added, that the e
nemy were seizing the grain in the
fields, and transporting it behind
thetn to Luxemburg.
BLLF AS I , Sjeptember 12.
The very interefling news from
France, that came by this day's mail,
has induced us to defer several im
portant articles, in order to make
room for its insertion. At the fame
time, that every man of sensibility
mult shudder at the tranfaiftions of
the 2 d inltant at Paris, let it be con
•tdered, that the fir ft accounts of all
tumults are apt to be exaggerated •
that of the 10th of Augult, for in
stance, was not merely exaggerated,
but totally mifreprelented, for the
hilt two or three days. No doubt
this as well as every other popular
ebu.lition, will be charged to the ac
count of the Jacobins, although it is
notorious, that,he leading members
both the Aflembly, and ofthe Mu
nicipality of Pans, are also the lead-!
ing members of that Society, ana' ait]
of them exerted their urmoft ,„ffu i
mob' In Va '"' 10 ft ° P th£ fu '- V of ( ' he
FRANCE
(Latest infUtgence from Paris.)
NATIONAL assembly
September <4—Morning. '
The aflembly charged the com.nu
i - „ ar,s to P ro,e,f t >he Abbe Si
card, inllrutftor of deaf and dumb
178
An addrcfs from Marseilles was pre
sented, Hatingthat the placeof lining
of the department of Aix was transfer
red to Marseilles, as they had been in
formed the enemies of liberty wert
plotting to make a general maiiacre
of the patriots of that place.
M. Dalbon, commandant of St.
Manehold, wrote, complaining that
10,000 men had been Cent to him
without arms—" We do not want
courage, said he, but arms," —Refer-
red to the executive power.
M. Chabot said, that as reports had
been spread that the National Aflem
bly Meant to re-e(tabli(h Louis XVI.
on the throne of France, or to place
on it the Duke of York or the Duke
of Brunfwick, and that as these re
ports were propagated- with a view
to make the National Aflembly unpo
pular, it was neceflary to contraditf
them in a public manner, "Let us
swear," said he, " that we abhor the
doctrine ascribed to us, and'let us de
clare, that we have fuffered so much
already from the vices of Kings, and
from Royalty, that we hold thein in
detestation."
The whole Aflembly then rofe,and
took the oath proposed by M.Chabot.
M. Dnbayt—" Let us swear that
no foreigner fliall ever give laws to
F ranee."
M. Lariviere—" Let us swear that
no King, no Monarch fliall ever be a
(tain upon our liberty."
The Afleinbiy again rose, and with
heir hands raised up, took both the
proposed oaths.
M. .Chabot communicated to the
Aflembly a letter which he had re
ceived from his colleague M. Merlin,
one of the Conimiflioners employed
for enrolling citizens. " My friend,"
said M. Merlin, " armed men spring
up from the earth.—Our country is
saved—l embrace you.'*
The Cotnmiffiotiers sent to the ar
my of the South, wrote that every
thing there was in the belt poflible
state.
Eve nI ng Tile adminittrarors of
the diftri<!t of Barle-Duc wrote ro
the aflembly, confirming the news
capture of Verdun. The ene
my, they said, were advancing to
r.ids Montniedi. They added, that
a detachment of PruiTian Huflars hav
ing entered St. Michael, carried a
vay the public treasure, and had
made fruitlef's attempts to di (cover
M. Sance, who arretted the King at
Varennes on the 16th of June, 1791.
M. Lacroix moved, that the Extra
ordinary Commiliion fliould conceit
measures with the Executive Provifi
onary Council, for making known to
the Legislative body the itate of Ihe
magazines and arfegals, and for giv
ing such details refpetfting the plan
of the campaign, as might be reveal
ed without detriment to the public.
— Decreed.
A courier from general Dutnourier,
who had brought difpatchcs to the
minister of war, appeared at the bar,
and informed the Aflembly, that the
general had ported himlelf in some
defiies, where he would have great
advantage over the enemy. He re
lated, that a woman had deltroyed
4®o Hulans, by giving them wine, in
which flie had infilled poison.
LONDON, September 8
The withdrawing of our Ambada
dor from Paris in the present mo
ment was a matter of mere etiquette ;
but to order hftli to deliver such« note
on his departure, is viewed by everv
liberal politician sn this country, not
merely as an insidious act, unworthy
of a manly people, but as an unwite
measure, calculated to involve us dan
gerously with France—dangerously
we mean as to our permanent in
terefls.
Jt is mentioned at Valenciennes, as
a. blocking p'<iof of La F.ayecre's Trea
chery, that his army on his depar
tuie was found to have only three
days provisions. In the adversity of
private men , who have filled eminent
Situations in the revolutions of dates,
accusations are quickly multiplied.
Extract of a letter from Paris, Sept. r
" Pction has had to appease a lu
molt occasioned by a dcciee of the
allembly, which destroys the } aris
municipality— Several regions were
lor pre/ervinrj then old cominiifaries ;
L 7 |l.»! , „g&™ , ' im ''" ,I '' , '» t •>»
1 prom,ft before Go,] ani , my
country, that wherever 1 n,., v t-t plat
ed, will exert my wM e 't J e 0
pn.getheeanhfromthepeitoJ'Ro
" On the 29th of Augoft. amotion
was made by M. Manuel, that all
reigners it) France, were to be kent
as ho(lages ; and in cafe their nail
ons declared war, alway. to espol'e
their own countrymen to their &«:
fire. He made another motion, to
except only such foreigners as were
members of the Jacobin Club. ; bat
to choose of them a certain utimbtr
that were to be sent into theene'my'i
armies, asdeferters ; and, ifpoflible,
debauch their country men. The mo
tions were both agreed tl».' ,
Extratt of a l;tteg jrom Luxemburg,
Auguji IJ.
" The day before yesterday attain
of 9 jo Pruflian artillery and ammn
nition waggons, laden'with military
stores, and drawn by fix horses each,
pafled near this place, and ranged
rhemfelves under the guns of our
forrrefii; they occupy a space of
ground further than the eyecanfee;
others arrive almost hourly, whilst
the main body of the army destined
against France marches alang the
frontiers.
" The Duke of Erunf.vick, com
mander in Chief of the combined
forces, arrived here yesterday, and
after an interview with the Austrian
and Prufiian Generals, returned to
the army.
" The King of Prussia, with his
two fotis, arrived here at eight o'clock
this morning, and were received on
the parade by the officers ; and, af
rer Examining the works, returned
to the camp at Montfort."
Copy of a letter from a gentleman Ft Do-
tier, dated Augujt 2*792, to kis
jriend in London.
" My dear Friend,
| " I is'ould have written to you
'from Paris, bul did not rhoofe tc put
[you to the trouble of receiving a let
ter,which mud have contained ni/thing ;
as the fear of losing my head, pre
vented my communicating any tiling
that might interett your curiolliy.
All letters, in the bless; ' capital if
French liberty, are opened before de
livery ; and all sent from that place,
undergo the fame liberal infpeclion.
I came from Paris wi;b Mi". , wt >
I know is writing to you at this mo
ment. A gentleman who left Calais
this morning at three o'clock, allures
me, that Lord Gower had not yet ar
rived in that city. His Lurdfliip's
hurfes are certainly flopped at Ami
ens.
" Out of two thousand Englirtunen
in Paris, the day we left it, none ar
rived (ince at Calais but those who
quitted Paris the day we did, and the
day after, though we were detained
there three days by an adverfewind.
It is probable, that a new decree of
the national afleinbly, keeps all per
rons in Paris, Grangers as well as o
thevs. The people of Paris are all
mad, flark mad. The whole extent:
of country from Amiens to Calais, is
one entire corn-field ; but the corn is
dropping from the ears for want of
hands to reap it, and many thoufalid
acres of wheat mult be loft.
" I speak to nothing hut what »a»
presented to my own eyes. Do not
believe a word of any thin" you
in the French papers ; they darepu
lifh nothing but what is calcularet to
fnpport the present measures. f hie®
editors, of what at e called ari
prints, were inaflacred, and thf; r
pneflesilcl'i©yeH, r!ie day arici
Jay. Paris exhibits a scene of nothing
but incoherency, confufion, an ,or
ror :— No money—no credit a
—no older—no religion-no juttf*
-no virtue Ml The executive p»»-
er is, to all intents and pin poles,
lodged in rlie hands of »
mob. The aflembly no more dare
decree any thing, though cr ,
wife and neceflaiy, which the . n
difapproie, than 1 dare ha^ewrn
this in Paris
kc."The King (Louis XVI.) is f.:id to
have been much affected on being in
formed of the execution of M. la
Forte, the iniendanc of ihe civil lilt.
A gemleaian yelterday gave 100
guineas to receive one guinea a day
until the Duke of firuiifwick, at the
head of a holtile army, fliall arrive
at Paris. This is no proof, thai much
confidence is placed in his operations.
The perl'on who gave the money,
congratulated himlelfon having pur
chased an annuity of 365 guineas for
life.
It has been said, that the Duke of
Bi unfwick clan meet with 110 lerious!
refinance in iiis march to Paris A
whole people united, is but a'trifling;
obllacle then to an invadiitg foe !—!
The truth is, tyrants will find that
all their boasted difcipiine must be
inefficacious againll a nation deter
mined to be free, and that tactics are
only good opposed to ia<ftics. A mere
trial os-strength and skill, prefentsno
image of the prefenr war in France.
It is art against principle—science
againftthe affections—the arm againll
the foul—and in such a contest, vic
tory is not triumph. They may mur
der one million, but the remaining
twenty-three millions will continue
unsubdued.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fen no,
TFfILE the fuppreflion of a!! the
* V prefles in France, except t'hibfe
rubfervient to the views of the predo
minant party on the one hand, and
the prejudices supposed to influence
the Englilh publications on the other,
may tend to obfeure the faithful de
lineation of the proceedings in thit
country. We are neverihelefs capa
ble of discerning oil the whole, that
the people of Fiance have fiverved
from the original principles of their
revolution—that tlie new tonftitution
has been eUentially violated—and
that reason and judgment , are over
whelmed by the boiiterous voice of
faClioii. How far the stings of old
wdunds received from the hands of
despotism may apologize for their
late condudi, it is not our talk to de
termine. > But what despotism bears
half the ills in its train as thaj of
anarchy arrfl contusion, wiieve every
ftcred mound railed for the security
of life, liberty, and property, is le
velled by the torrent of lawlcfs pow
et ? The unhappy firnation. of France,
while it demands our lympathy, pre
sents a ftri king example of what is to
be expected from the palTions of men'
nncontrpuled by government and
Jaws. Let Americans attend to the
expreflive memento—and by a due
observance of every social and confti
tutioual obligation, render a jult tri
bute of gratitude to the Supreme Go
vernor of' the Universe for the hlef
fings they enjoy—Let them be cau
tious of being betrayed by the devices
of those factious demagogues am6ng
thenifelveg, who, ambitious to adi over
a (imilar scene in thi9 conntry, are
found *ociierous for liberty, ffeile
the worst of tyranny reigns in their
hearts—who wifli to set the world in
a flame, that they may'have a better
chance ro plunder.
May America continue that happy
country, where the inajefty of the
law, which constitutes the liberty of
the fubjeiTt, dial! always be superior
to the rcftlefs efforts of aspiring sac-
PHJLANTHROPOS
tion.
Domestic Articles.
BOSTON, October 24.
YcQerdnv ;he armivf rfarv of the completion of
the Third (en fury lince Chrijlophsr Columbus difco
veixd this N*w Wo>ld, was celebrated in this
town by the Htftorieal Society-—before whom, at
the Meetin<r-houfe in Brat'lc-lquare, the Reverend
D'.'c.;or Btifoiap delivered a difcouric replete with
ufeful l.iiloricS-'l information, and nuicli ingenious
iibefal ohfervaiions. Alter v.hvrb an Ode
Vas sung oy Mr. Rea ana a fcle£i choir oi fingers.
The (hip Air erica, lately arrived at Sr. Domingo
wvtb succours fiom Fiance, is, we are :oid. the
laip prefenud by the United Slates to Louis XVI.
T P, E N T O N, O.ftober 31,
At joint meeting on Monday lafl - , of the coun
cil and aii'er;■ ->!y of this State, Hi - Excellency
Willi am# Paterson, Efcjuire, was vnanimonfly
re-e tested Governor.
On Monday last the members of the general
alTembly of this St. re met at Mr. Drake's ta
vein, and preceded by the Rev. tho CUrgy of
tle town, and accompanied by a number of tie
inhabitants, walked in procefiion to the State
lice w .'et ti, ' ercfted in this.
.Mace , where they were introduced to the a- ■
p«t,"cnt .itttd up for their reception by the!
comm. honors- appoint ro fuperktend iL\
o '• ■ P-'tinerit prayer made by tlifel
at tlie r «jueft of tl.ej
• -Th T" to boiinei-.
ine alk'Hih y-roon; is not completeivlininied, '
out is in its IHt-"r.r r*™r. t -
~ 1 1 lratela rprei£h-able, bothforl
Lie coy.ort and convenience of the member 1
and for fv: accommodation of the ,;».<> tor,' l
t° any in which they have ever he! i their for! i
mer htting; in this Hate.
It w,!l, »e prefpftic, give pleaftire to the
friend* American m-.mrtaftu.en, to he in
formed that t,e elegant slaftmade use ofinthi,
bmldhig, r the moocfeifare of'this fa- i>
rua.de at ti. ■ , < ,-fc. of MefiV* Heftcr and' Car
penter, in the county 6f .Gloucester.
Philadelphia, N °v. 5.
Mftraa of further EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
In tile National AiT-mblv of Franc. Ait" °6
M Guad.t propofrd, and it was decreed, thai the'
iLicat Trench Citizen IhonM be conferred on the
following persons, who had rendered thnnWw.
illuftrionsby their lovi of liberty, viz —Thrn. a .
Dr - P,i<ft 'V. De la Paw. Wilberlori, ,
Walh.n s ion„Cl(irklon, Williams, Middifo.i, Ha
milton, Richai d Feidebert, Malachoijflit, 1' r< 1M
P'jiiiatculki, and Mackintolh.—" France decla re
they aicher children, fincc thev are thole i,i h
berty."
In the Inme fitting, Mr. Jean de Uric prcfenterf
the following propoCal fo'r deltroyTßg thr fcmgt
,ind generals who are now fighting against the li
berty of Fiance. Herequell.-d p.-i'miflinn to rjife
a body of 1200 volunteers, who fhail bind
frlvfs by an path t.o go and attack individually and
'"olk'&ivHy, and by cvei y, means,. the kinns and
generals i.nw at war whh Franc?. T'nef.-yran
n!ciQcs,o be caiirj (!vs Dourt C(.n») 'vfM"-
hundred," to be aimed with .poignafcl's avid pis.
IOiS
This plan was decreed, anil tlac afTcnSlv werc
going to fettle tht pay of these dels. ~ when
MnTrs. Vernianx, Mafurier and Si rs, requeued
that it might be f nt to a fcommittee for reconfi
tUration, asfucfi a rneafure would ordure the en -
my to make reprisals, and coni- quently give rife
to a war of the most horrid kind.
• After a long debate, the plan was referred to a
committee.
The parts of the famous Red-Rook, rmvmefl". <1
by the ConOituent Amenably, from rc 'peCVto the
memory of Louis XV. and to the prei. Nt Km-,
were ordererl.to be p»irtted„ by theAfTembly.
The Eru(l Is account ot the taking of L' n,«wi.
fays the garrison confided oi 12 or 1 50c men a
member of the National Aflcmhly Jhted them at
3500. L' ngwi was taken bv General CUirfayt.
Ihe garrison marched our with the honors of w r.
laid down «hcir arms on the glafcis'of the fortrefs,
and were then permitted to retire into the interior
part of the kingdom, after having engaged not to
fetve during the war.
The States of Holland have ordered their Am
i« ir . . p„. ; M. i - N<»rV 1 • *
dc P'»ix, M. de I Htignan, M. de G rave, M. (Ie TaP
lon, «M. M. (K ..hmtmorendy, M. de Lianeourt.
M. de Narbofine, and th<? la-dies of M. di la Fay
ette, M. de Bn or, and M. de Bouitle, arc, accord
ing to the Engliih. pa.pe'rs, arrived in London.—
Five hundred Fiench ariived in that city from
Fiance in one week.
The National Convention of Fran e u to begin
their bufinHs towards the month of O&ober.
Verdun, now in poffeflion of the combined ar
mies, is 150 miks ealt from Paiis—its citadel is
laid to have been "very lirong.
| Great apprehtnfions are entertained in Parrs o!
hoUilities being about to be commenced by tlx-
Spaniards. Tniny-n:ne fail ol (hips were lying
ii. Barcelona—these, it was cxpe6ted,'were to be
joined by 17 foil of Portuguese. Marseilles, Col
liouresor Antibes, was supposed tcy be their ob
ject.
From the latcft returns of the French armies to
tht minister of war, it appears that there are at
least two mi llions of men in arms.
The crops of grain in England the last foafon,
are said to be equal in many parts to. the
quantity of two years' growth.
Thecncampm< nt of the combined armies again ft
France, near Thionville the 17th Auguit, extend
ed nearly 17 miles.
The Knoxville Gazette, ol Oft. to, contains an
account, that on the 30th September, about mid
night, a ftaiion lour milts south of Nashville, at
which sundry families and about 15 gunmen were
coi'uft< d, was attacked by a party of Creeks and
lower Chcrckces, supposed to consist of three or
♦ our hundred—the attack continued for an hour,
che enetnv were repulled with considerable lots,
without injuring man, woman or child in the Na
tion. Dm :ng the whole time, the Indians wert
never moie diflaut than ten yards from the block
house, and often in large nurrtbers clofetoth
walls of the blotk-houfe, attempting to put fire to
it. One alc.ended the roof with a torch, where
he wi-s (hot. On viewing the ground next morn
ing, it appeared that the fellow who was fhoi
was a Cherokee, halt breed—there was much
blood, and signs that many dead were dragged
off. Near the block-house were found swords,
hatchets, pipes, kettles, and budgets of different
Indian ariieles. One of the swords was a fine
Spanish blade, mounted in the Spanish falhigu.
On the 3d Oft. another block-houle was attacked
tiy'fur prize by another party of Indian:.—three
whites were killed and one wounded, and a num
ber of horses ftolc n.
This account concludes by faying, that u Thcfc
are the fruits of the advice of the Baron de Cor-,
rondolet (Governor of Louiliana) and Governor
O'Neal (of Penfacoln-) and it is due to Mr. Pan
ton, thnr chief add, he has well
a£ted his pai t! !!"
The Hon. ]ohn Taylor, mentioned in lafl
Satuiday's Gazette as being eleOed Senator of
Qn ted States, by the Lfgiflature of Virginia, to
supply the vacancy occaii<»ned by the resignation
of iie Vlwk Riohard Henry Lee, is chofeu
also for the fix succeeding years.
179
ltl . ona ' AficmMy may have beer, per
thC JtU , ,r lt ) , ,ili. ;.1
f." to ''*.«"»«• whether Fiaacs-At.«uid i>«
by a republic orb; a and
' l r *' tte '"-*y not toys coincided in ly.nion
_ 1 ° m > a »jd \et not be a traitor.
f*»"thtiori as fettled by thefirft afiem-
L thc lin *it> of his political belief':
lay I'ave thought" it imprudent to go fur
t e Aifenj&y thought other-
>'t- Ux F ayette may have been mistaken, but
- V dl '- > »ot make him a traitor.
, l \ a - Vc - rc through tne whole of his political
cow-iut iia-i lieen ■ confident. He here fought
" ■ - !c", and in Fr*.mce to* a. the
■vol itio.i and ; n framing a coniiir L »tic:\
r > « ieti
• further and eifcabiiitiirt:
ej,b ~ injwii on the ruins of that constitution
.lis conduct was firm in the line of his political
iaitf-. 1
1 • e AiiomWy were probably right in adopt*
ing mcafures with refpedt to him as
loon as it was known that he did ndt approve
dcpofitian of the king. A different liwe
ox conduct would probably have produced a di
vision of the people into two g;*eat parties, and '
eventually have proved the ruin of Trance.— ;
This conje&ure will appear extremely probahie
if we take a v r iew of the proceedings of the mu*
iiicipaKty of. Sedan upon the requisition sent
tnem by M. La Fayette. This part even of"
F a* ctte's political conduct was decided and
worMy of himTelf : His motives were pure, lie
acted mder the impression which a violation of*
the constitution, in one of*its fundamental prin
ci;>'es, must have made, he up to his prin
ciples, to his oath, and not like a traitor.
La Fayette finding the republican party back
ed by a majority in the National AiTembly and
army, left his country—not to join the enemy ;
out to avoid an impending ignominious death :
And in this lie a£ted like a man of honor and
not the >>art oftraitor. Gen. Adv.
Mon3-ly next the 2d (Vflion of the present Con
£»ils 'cominniKcj in this citv.—The following
we hjsar, ate in town :
Senators—Mr. Morris, Mr. Lancdon, Mr.
Fostf.r, Mr. Monroe, Mr Few, Mr. Izard,
t >. Sutler, Mr. Hawkins, Mi. Sherman,
iMI. WINGATE.
Rcprejentalrvit— Mr. Fitzsimons, Mr. Gil
man, M'. Gerry, Mr. Sturcis, Mr. Wa Kd,
y.f Mr. 'BouKN, Mv. Pa rker , Mr.
Madison, Mr. Ven able, Mr. Giles, Mr.
Brow n, Mr. Williamson, Mr. St eel e, Mr.
ft a i.dwi n, Mr. Smith, S. C.
HU Excellency Thomas Chittenden, Esq.
is chp.fcn Governor ot Vermont, and his Honour
Peter Olcott, Esq. Lieutenant-Governor.
I i'c President of the United Stales hath appoint
ed Zf.J3ULON Hollings wor th, fclq, ot Balti
m oic. Attorney of the L'ni:ed Statej for the Dif
fri& of Maryland, vice Richard Potts, Esq.
refignifd. Maryland Jour.
'^ K .c following gentlemen are clefted Repre
iif '.Weloi .v~w-Jer.ey, in the mongrels ni
the United States :
Lambert Cadwallader, John Beaty, Elias
ftowdinotj Jonathan Dayton, Abraham Clark,
iE^jnires.
Thiirfday last arrived the schooner Abigail,
Samuel Gooch, matter, from Malaga. The
captain failed from"Gibraltar the 29th of Sept.
and infoims rhat it was currently reported and
generally believed at that fortrels, that the
King of Spain was equipping 70, poo men to
inai'ch against the armies of France-r-that the
Ruffitfti army had joined the Auftrians, and that
jthere i>ad wen aii engagement with the main
pody of the French army, in which the French
troops proved victorious, having not only kept
theirgroundjbut slain immense numbers of their
enemies. 'Partitulars the captain had it not in
his power to relate.
Extrafi of a letter from a gentleman in this city, to
his jrtend in London, dated July 4
u This country was never in so flom ifliing a
ftatc .-.s at pret?nt; the increase of people, rich
es, and agriculture is ahnofl incredible, except
to ttfofe who are eye-witneiles of ir. The pre
sent? war with the Indians has for a while flop
ped emigration to the western territories ; and,
from, the influx of Germans, French, liifli, &c.
tne scheme for deepening rivers, cutting canals,
r^akin«.roads, &c. which twelve months ago I
thought impoifible to be accompli flied for ages,
is now in such lorwardnefs, that I believe this
■State v ill, in the course of 12 or 15 years, be
in a* good a situation, in this refpecH, as England:
as our Aifembly spares no expence, but is liber
al in encouraging these improvements.
u We have at present a profpedt of a good
harvest. Some few manufactories have been
attempted to be erected in this State ; but from
the high price of wages, the great plenty of
provisions, and above all, the cheapnels of land,
tbey do not succeed excepting those for bulky
articles, the ra>v materials of which are cheap,
and the expence of bringingoverheavy.
" The leather manufactory, for instance, is
in a fiourifhing liate ; a good raw hide can be
purt Mted in our market for 2s. (it is not long
jince toe flelliers gave as much to carry them
uff; litrS oak and bark can,be had for a trifle ;
yet the fanners are obliged to pay luch high wa
ges to their men (from 7s. to 9s. sterling pr. day)
that Brftifli leather is often imported in such
.quantities, as to Have -necefiitatfed the tanners
here to apply to Congress for relief. Congress
have increased the duty on leather, and on ar-.
tides made of it, from 3 or 4 to to per cent.
44 The paper-mills, manufactories, and hea
vy iron goods flour: Hi belt. Glass hou'es and
manufactories of stone ware are increafijjg.
" But all our manufactured goods are a
mere trifle to what are imported from Great-
Britain and I.relaird. To the south of Virgi
nia, no article however bulky or coarse, is ma
nufattured; every thing ulcd there is imported
from Great-Britain, or the northern States."
A correfpom! >Nt who has read the
Proclamation and a letter ligned A. J. Dallas,
informing the public 44 that tflere are rejects
in the return*', but that it pearly appears from
injormat TGXurfis that the omitted votes wouid
not alter the Hate of the election," requeits an
ar.lwer to the following queries : lit, "Whether
the writer of that letter ir, the lame gentleman
\vho was a member of the committee of cor
respondence ? 2d, Whether ffte power to jud,e
in the aboveraentioned ca.'e is vetted in mn or
in the House of Representatives ot the United
States ?,,
Several citizens vequeft to know whether
there is not a variation between tile Gover
nor's Proclamation and his Secretary's
the one lets forth jthat by virtue of the law
requiring lum after receiving the returns to
pubhlh the names—he therefore declares t<je
ibverai person", fluiy elected from the ix ur:::,
which muit ofcourfe mean all the return* : Where
as the other tells us that all the returns we. e
not received, but that it clearly appealed (to
the writer of"the letter, I ftippoie) that the fupr
prefTed returns would not change tiie election.
Tiiey request further to be informed whether
in iucli a cafe the Houie of Representatives of
the Uniied States, can alone decide that tl»e
fuppreflcd votes would not vary the state of the
Poll, or whether it is left to the Governor or
j his Secretary to judge of the election I
He >va
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVF.D at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ewing, Londonderry
JLoxley, , London
Hodgfon, Teneriife
Thompson, Cadi*
Anderfon, St. Lucie
Cochran, Cape-Francoi»
Grant, Savannah
Cajver, 1 Boston
Gooch, Malaga
M ! Ncroi>, Virginia
Clark, do.
Goodrich* New-York
Coulter, do.
Marchant,
[Ship American,
Pigou,
Dispatch,
Barque Csefar,
Brig Sal!y,
Schr. Harriet*
Fiientffhipj
AW ■; i iI -
W i r< fie-i J*
Stoop Htirriii*n,
Honour,
Dove,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Full ftiares Bank U. S. 43
4 'harts, 55 . ,
Unfunded debt of the U. 5. ziJ6 on the principal.
And on the lntereft uo to iff jan. 1788, 13/.
GEOpR A P H Y.
Mathew Carey
Refpcflfully submits to the Citizens of the United
States, the following
PROPOSALS
fop j»u or T 9.i* * tfO B* r .»»»csi" ric^,
An AMERICAN EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED.
Of which theft arc the terms :
1. TT shall be published in 48 weekly numbers,
JL each containing three (heets,or twenty-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine paper.
11. In the course of ihe work wi|l be-delivered
about thirty Urge maps, of the fame fisc »s thofc
in the European editions, viz. most of them ftieet
ttnaps on post paper.
(£3T Bef/des the maps in the Britijh editions, this
work will curtain maps of as many of the United States
as can he readily procured, executed by the beji engrav
ers in the United States.
111. The price of each number will be a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery. No ad
vance required.
IV. The woik will be put to press as soon as
yooVopies are fubferibed for.
V. Sub(cKibei's who disapprove of the work, on
the publication ol the three fiiftnumbeis, are to
be at liberty 10 return thetn, and shall have their
money repaid.
VI. The fubferibers* names fliall be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertaining
and ufefubthan geogiaphy. It reveals the disco-
Meries ,of travellers—the remarkable curiofitics of
all countries, in nature and art—the situation ot
provinces, cities, towns, villages, livers, & moun
tains—in,fine, the history, manners, customs, laws,
forces, revenues, and government of different na-
tions.
It is an old observation, that li there is not a
son or daughter of Adam, but has some concern
with geography and that a knowledge of this
science rs indtfpcnfable towards the lludy of his
tory with advantage or fatisfa&ion. Indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannot dtfcourfe on the
most common newspaper topics of the day without
betraying his ignorance.
So much for geography generally. With rc
fneft to the present plan, let it fufftce to remark,
that Guthrie's Geography ha> been long acknow
ledged to be the best in ihe Engiifh language :
however, the account of America in it has, from
obvious reasons, been very erroneous and defec
tive. The errors of former editions will be cor
rected, and the defers fupplicd, by gentlemen of
abilities, who have engaged to fuperimend this
undertaking, and to avail themselves of all the in
formation that cftn be procured, to lender it the
most complete edition extant.
The Pi inter t ameitly solicits the support of his
fellow-citizens throughout the United States : and
as no deposit is requited, and every fubferiber will
be at liberty to withdraw his name, if, on trial,
he (hould dilapprove of the work, he hopes the
friends of science. and of Ameiican arts and ma
nufactures, will'cheerfully and ea»ly patronize this
ufefnl work, the gieateft and most expensive, pro
bably, ever yet attempted in America, in the typo
graphical line, the Encyclopedia excepted.
Philadelphia, AW. 2, 1792. (;awtf)
Newburyport
"/I I
*3j3
per crnt. prcmGeneral Foil-Ofnce.
PH! LAD L I
PROPOSALS «in b; received at this orficej
umil ihe fifteenth dav of November next, in-1
clufivrly.tor taring .he Mails oi .he United j
States on .V.e ...Slowing Post Roads, fu.ro the fiut j
day of J ncary next, mi ■' l!.c firll day of June,]
HTI <">A N*W-HAMFSHI t E. j
J , I .» li'ilctUd » Port a. J '.n the dittiifl of,
Mjinc : The t>",leave Wifc.ffet every TiWdayl
• f;\ o'('.'*<"k ii' ihe morning, aixi arnve at Pon-|
land 'We nrxt ciay by one »nine alurnoon : — Re-,
• _ lt) | CJV c Pore land every T'nurfday by fix'
• mmnin and arrive ai. Wifcaffet the nextl
in the monnnj , a«»» «'M i>v.
day bvone in the afternoon.
Fiom Portland to Fvrtjmouth : The mail to ;
» . PoiHand every Monday and 1 nurfday by 1
,'xo'clock ir. the morning, and anive at Portl-j
ifooi'theve.v 1 urfday and Friday by t'n in the|
forenoon i— Returning, to leave Portlmauth eve
ry TueMay and Friday at one in the afternoon,
and arriv.* a! Portland on Wednesday and Satur
day b v Tix in the evening.
From Port [mouth to Bojion : From November
firft to May fi;ft, the mail to leave Poitfmouth
every Tueldav 3nd Friday, at two o'clock in the
afrernnoon and arrive at Bo(Un on Wednesday
and Saturday by (ix in the evening : —Returning,
toleave Eoflon every Monday and Thursday, by
fix ir the morntn®, arid arrive at Porifmoutn on
Tuefdav and Friday by ten in the forenoon : —And
from Mr.' Prft to November fiift, the mail to leave
Poitfmonth every Tuesday, I hurlday and Satur
cav. by four in the morning, and arrive at Bolton
the fame days by fix in the evening Returning,
to Icat'C Boston every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, by four in the morning, and airive at
Po'tfmouih the fame days by fix in the evening.
In Massachusetts, Connecticut and
NF W-York
4. Fiom BcJlov^b y Yl'orceJUr, Springfield, Hartford, \
MiJdletoicii, and to New-York : From
November fiift to May firft, the mail to leave Bol
ton every Monday au*| Thursday, at one o'clock
in '.he afternoon ; und arrive at New-York every
Saturday and Wednesday (the sixth <tay from its
departur.-) by ten in the forenoon : Returning, to
leave New-York every Monday and Thursday,
at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Bos- 1
ton every Saturday and Wedncfday, by ten in the
forenoon : And from May firft to November firft,
the mail to leave Boston every Monday, Wcdnef
dav and Friday, by three o'clock 111 the morning,
and arrive at New-York every" Thursday, Satur
day and Tucfday (the fourth day from its de
parture) by eleven in the forenoon : Returning, to
leave New-York every Monday, Wednefdayand
Friday, by one o'clock in the afternoon, and ar
rive at Boston every Thursday, Saturday and
Tuesday, by fix in the evening.
Jn New-York, New-Jersey and Pennsyl
VANIA
5. Between New-York, (by Newark and Eliza
bethtown) and Philadelphia, every day in the week,
Sunday excepted : The mails to leave New-York
at noon, and Philadelphia ot one o'clock in the
afternoon; and arrive at Philadelphia and New-
York refpeflivelv, the next day after their de
parture. by ten in the forenoon ; excepting the
mails of Saturday, which are to arrive at the fame
hour on Monday.
In Pennsylvania and Maryland.
6. From Philadelphia to Baltimore: The mail to
leave Philadelphia every Monday, Wcdnefdas
and Friday, at noon, and arrive at Baltimore each
succeeding day by noon : Returning, to leave
Baltimore every Monday, Wednesday and Friday,
by four o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Phi
ladelphia each succeeding day by eleven in the
forenoon. I
7. From Baltimore to Alexandria: The mail to
leave Baltimore everv Tuesday, Thursday end Sa
turday, at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive
at Alexandria each succeeding day by eight in the
morning : Returning, to leave Alexandria every
Monday, WedneCday and Friday by four o'clock
in tht afternoon, and arrive at Baltimore on Tues
day, Thursday and Saturday by ten in the fore
noon.
h Vt rctn:a
8. From Alexandria to Richmond, Peter/burg, Suf.
folk and Porljmouth : The mail to leave Alexan
dria every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, at
nine o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Rich
mond every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,
by fr* in t'.e evenm- ; at PcierlWj, every Wed
"e«»y,Md.y »nd Monday at ten inthc forenoon ■
•t Suffolk every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday
by fix in the afternoon ; and at Poitfmouth every
Friday, Monday and Wednesday, by ten in tht
forenoon ; Returning, to leave Po-tfmouth the
,T , 7' ? lond> y and Wednesday, at one
0 clock 111 the afternoon, and arrive at Suffolk the
lame days by seven in the evening ; and at Peters
burg the next Monday, Wednesday and Friday by
eleven in the forenoon; leave Petersburg the farm
days at two in the afternoon, and arrive at Rich,
mond the fame day, by fix in the evening : leave
Richmond on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,,
2 ™ ;,' " morning, and arrive at Alexrndriai
he ncx Wednesday, Friday and Monday, by three j
in the afternoon. ' uirC( i
9 From Richmond, by WUHamdurg, Yvrk-T U ;J
; nd f"'Pton, ,n KorJM. Ihe mail £ ~a ' „ "
rnonrf every Monday, W.dneWay and Friday bv
four o clock in the morning, snd arrive ai Norfolk
1 'I , fivf in ,hc :
Friday and by"''fix
the , V vVnin 1 i: C '' mond " th
/» Virginia and North-Carol, ka
ville every Wd aVi f„ ur j S .* a Tette-
A. NorTH OTrfSouTH CA.ouka.WCeo.Cl,
h r Ch, raw Court."
Tutfdiy by lour ill a y«tevil,e rvtr.
»ht otxtday byfivc i„,b°T" g ' '" Ch Cl " 1 '
« AUgusta the next Saturday bv" 0 "' rivr
i"K'o :,„ e AugulU f*«v ttL rV" 00 " i iirtu '"
*>ioiiiin« iriivc >1 r, n 'j 1, 'at Vl:tht
«. »"« at Cafcden the next Sunday by
five in the morning, »i>d It *-yelsevil!e the ne»t
Monday, by fight in the evening.
12. frrom Augujld to Savannah. The mail to
leave Auguibevuy Saturday, at one o'clock in the
afternoon, and arrive at Savannah the next Mon
day morning by ren : Returning, to leave Savan
nah every Monday, at two o'clo- k in the atier
noon, and arrive at Apgufta the next Wednesday,
by five in the afternoon.
13 Fiom Camden toStatefourg. The mail to
love Camden every Tnuifday t»y four in the
morning, and arnve a' Saiefburg by eight : Rc
' luming, to leave Stateiburg every Soturilay, at two
in the afternoon, and arrive ai Camden by iix.
In Massachusetts, RHOOPhi and and Con-
N £ C T I C l/T
14. From Bojlon to Providence. The mail to
leave Boston evtry Monday and Thurfday,t.y lix
111 the morning, and arrive the fanu days at Pio
vidence, by five in the afternoon: Retmnioy, to
leave Providence every Wednelday ai.e S«uirdfey .
by fix 111 the morning, and arrive the fame days
at B lion, by five 111 the afternoon.
$3* Perforis offering proposals for this contract,
art defi'red alio to (late the terms on which the)
will carry the mail between Boston and Provi
dence, three times a week, and every day in the
week (Sunday excepted) in ca!e a waggon
ihould run so often between iliofe two places.
15. From Providence, by Norwich, to Harilord.
The mail to ieave Providence every Tncfday and
Friday, by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive
at Norw:ch the fame days, and at Hartford on
Wednesday and Saturday, by five in the afternoon :
Returning, to leave Hartford every Monday and
Thuifday, at seven in the morning, arrive <*t Nor
wich the fame days, and at Providence on Tues
day and Fiiday, by five in the afternoon.
(13"* Pei sons offering proposals for this contrast,
are also defircd to state the terms on which they
will carry the mail between Providence and Hart
ford three times a week, if a llage waggon should
run so often between those two places.
16 From New-London to Newport, thence by
Brijlol and Warren to Providence, thence by Green
wich to Newport, and from Newport to New-London.
The mul to le?ve New-London every' TticfcVfr,
at two in the afternoon, and an ive at Newpoit the
next day by (Vx in the evening; leave Newport
every Friday at eight in the morning, and arrive
at Providcnce the fame day by fix in ihe evening ;
leave Providence on Saturday at eight in the morn
ing, and palling through Greenwich, arrive ai
Newport the fame day by fix in the evening ; leave
Newport the next Monday at eight in the morn
ing, and arrive at New-London the next day by
ten in the forenoon.
17. From New-Haven to New* London 1 Tbemiil
to leave New-Haven every Monday, at eight in
the morning, and arrive at New-London every
Tuesday by ten in the forenoon Returning, to
leave New-London every Tuesday at two o'clock
in the afternoon, and arrive- at New-Haven every
Wcdnefdav afternoon by fix.
18. From Middletjwn to New-London. The mail
to leave Middletown, from November fii ft to May
firft, eveiy Thursday morning, and from May to
November, (very Friday morning, by eight
o'clock ; and arrive at New-London by fix in tlx
evening of the day of its departure : Returning,
to leave New-London each next fucceedmg dsy by
eight in the morning, and arrive at Middletown
by fix in the evening |
In New-York.
19. Between the city of Nta-Yoik (by King[.
bridge, Poughkeepjie, and the city of Hudson) and
Albany. The carriers, with the mails, to leave
Ncw.Yotkand Albany eveiy Monday and Thurs
day, by four in the morning, meet, and return to
each place on Wednesday and Saturday, by fix in
t.he evening.
In Pen my lvani a,
2 °- From Philadelphia, by Lane after, York-town,
Carlisle, Shippen/hurg, Chamber/iurg, Bedford and
Greenjburg to Pitt/iurg. The mail to leave Phila
delphia every Saturday at noon, and arrive at Pittf
burg the next Irid ay by noon ; remain there not
lels than lour, nor more than fix hours, and return
to Philadelphia the following Friday by noon.
In the State oj Delaware.
21. From Wilmington, by New-Cajle, CantweW*
Bridge, and Duck Creek, to Dover. The mail to
leave Wilmington every Monday afternoon, b\
five o'clock (or as soon as the mail from PhiladH
phia is received) and arrive at Dover by five in tht
evening gf Tuesday : Returning, to leave Dovei
• very Wednesday morning by five o'clock, anc
strive at Wilmington by seven lit |h; evenu/o. 1
the ljrne day. 0
Jn Delaware and Maryland.
"• , I [ om Chiiltiana Bridge, by Middletown,
Warwick and George-town Cross-Roads, to Ches
ter-town, and thence to Eaflon. The mail to
eave Cmiftiana Bridge every Monday afternoon,
by "x ° clock (or as soon as the mail from Phila
delphia is received) and arrive at Eafton by fix in
the evening of Tuesday : Returning, to leave Eaf.
ton every Wednesday morning by five o'clock
theVITS " . Chri . B ' aM bridge in the evening oi
the fame day, by eight o'clock.
Persons offering proposals for car.yine
this mail, are difired to ftatc the terms on which
tht y .will it trom May fitfl to November firft,
n,n a'vi f P 1 U 'V y Monda y 31 f'alfpall
four' P'M a " " g Eafto " lhc n< -' tt d »y b y
UV,i*u T"? Ictur '""g. leave Eafton every
Wednesday by four, A. M. and arrive at Philadel
phi!l the next day by noon : And perform the
IT ul "r r, ?' ht< " h,rh, l | of ihe year, be
half pafl nine o'clock of ever y Monday, and
noon oflhencxt s day And a|fo their terms
Phia and'cT -ft" 3 , °^ 1 m,il bctwe ™ Philadel-
"s Philadelphia every
Wed ae Id ay ana Friday at half pa (t nine A M
<nd returning ihe f ourth day after by noon
I In Vi RC, NI A wrfNoß Th-Ca Ror. INA
urday. by si« * •£ V "' min S"»"hc orxi S.-
- » : h R r urnin ß- -
corning and art vp al \ ff i? ? y Ur ,n th <'
by Ux i , h c„;m„ g . Suffolk lhe " fXi ™urfda ;
180
In Ko ft T H-C AROL rN A
9.5. From Halijax by BlountJviUc, WilticmJlou:n %
and Daileys, to Plymouth, once in two weeks:—The
nuil to leave Haiuax every other Monday by five
o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Plymouth
the next day by fix in the evening : Returning, to
leave Plymouth the next Thursday by live 111 the
morning, and arrive at Halifax on Friday by live
in the evening.
26. From Wilmington to faycttcuilUi The mail
to leave Wilmington every Sunday, at tour in the
morning* and arrive the next day at Fayettcville
by five in the afternoon : Returning, Jtave Fay
ettcville every Turfday, by tour in the morning,
and arrive at Wilmington the next day by five in
tne afternoon,
Jn Virginia
Proposals w'll be received at the Poft-Office
in Richmond, until the 10; h day ot November next
inciufively, lor carrying the mail ot the United
States Jrom Richmond 10 Staunton,—from the 15111
cay of the fame month, until ihc firii day of June
1794. The mail to leave Richmond everv Mon
day by fix in th<- yarning, and arrive *t Staunton
the next Wednefoay by fix in the evening : Re
turning, leave Staunton every Thursday at ten in
the forenoon, and arrive at Richmond the next
Saturday by seven in the evening.
The persons offering proposals for carry
ing tiiis mai}, are desired to ilate the terms on
which they will carry it, and leave Richmond eve
ry Wedhelday at noon, and arrive at Staunton the
next Saturday by three in t*ic afternoon : Return
ing, leave Staunton every Monday «t seven in the
morning, and arrive at Richmond the next W<d
nefday by ten in the forenoon.
Note 1. If during the continuancc of the con
trails here proposed, any othtr times of arrival
and departure of the mails (hould become necef
farv, to preserve a proper connexion with other
mails, the contra£lor» are to conform to any ar
rangement which for that purpose shall be made
by the Pofl-Mafler General, such arrangt merit not
lessening the number of hours above allowed for
carrying the mails refpe&ively, without their con
sent.
2. A convenient time not Ufs than ten minutes,
nor exceeding half an how,for opening and doling
a mail is to allowed at each Poft-Office,at which
the lime of its arrival and departure is not herein
fpecifitd.
3. For every half hour's delay (unavoidable
accidents excepted) in arriving after the times pre
ferred in any contratt, the contractor to forfeit
one dollar ; and ior the non-pti foi mance dfl a trip,
double the sum which the value of one tnp shall
bear to the value of the whole number ot trips to
be performed.
4. The mail may be carried on any of the post
roads herein defcribcd, cither in stage waggons or
on hoifes : but when the state of the roads pte
vents travelling in waggons with the neceffarv ex
pedition, the mails are to be carried on hoifes.—
fcvrry mail-stage muil have in it a box in which
the mail is invariably to be carried, under lock
and key.
5. Newspapers, as well as letters, are to be
sent in the mails : and if any contractor would
wish to be authorircd to carry news-papers, other
than those conveyed in the mail (agreeably to the
22d fe&ion of the poft-office la*v) he must, in his
proposals, state the refpe6livc sums for which he
will carry the mails ivit/i and utthout ihc emolu
ments Wiich may arise from such separate carriage
of news-papers.
NEW POST ROADS,
In New-York., Massachusetts & Vermont,
An extcnlion of the Post roads having been de
sired, from CornojorhajrieiolVhi/es-town, and thence
to J\anandaiqua t in theftate of New-York ; from
Stackbridge to Bennington, in the dates of Mattachti
fctts and Vermont; and from Rutland to Windjor,
and But/and to Fairhaven, in Vermont : Proposals
Tor carrying mails on those routs, (at the expense
of the con»ra£tors) will be received at the General
Poft-Office, until the fifteenth day of November
next inclusively.— Persons offering such propolals,
must state the days and hours when they will re-;
reive and deliver the mails at each place hdre
mentioned, and the length of time (which cannot
cxceed eight years) for which they will contrafh
The conn a£lors, refpe6lively, will have the ex
clusive privilege of carrying letters and packets on
these roads, for hire ; and be authorized to re
ceive, to their own tile, all the pottages which (hall
arise on letters, packets and newspapers by them
carried, at the rates established by law ; but must
carry, free of postage, iucli letters and packets as
I y law are, or (hall be drclarid free.
for every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in delivering a mail, after the time a
greed on, the contra&or to forfeit one dollar;
<ind for the non-performance of a trip, one dollar
for every ten miles distance, as far as the failure
extend I *. •
1 he persons whom the contractors (hall dcfig
nate for Poftmaftcrs, on these routes,—previous to
I* 1 /a a^'n ß as f uc h> mutt be approved by the Pott-
Matter General, and take the oaths required by
law. They are to agree for their compensations
with the contra&ors, to whom alone they are to
account for all the pottages they shall receive.
he t-jme oaths must be taken by the contractors
and their ridersM-ho carry the mails.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Post-Master-Genera i.
The SUBSCRIBERS to ihe
Universal Tontine
Are informed, that a general meeting is to be held
at the State-House in this city, on Saturday the 3d
day of November next, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
agreeably to the sixth articlc of their aifociation.
By order of the Agents.
. EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'rv.
Philadelphia. Srpt. 15. 1792. (eptN'3)
Stock Brokers Office,
TNo-45, Great Dock-fttect, Nkw-Ycrk,
HE Subfcribcr intending to confine himfel!
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begsleaye to offer
his ferviccs to his friends and others, in the line
of ,i Stock Broker. Those who rr.ay plcafe to fa
vor hiin with their business, may depend upon
hdvi n?? ittranfafted with the utmost fidelity and
d 1 (patch.
Orders from Philadelphia,Bofton, or any other
oart of the United States wil 1 be ftrifily jtcend
.'d to.
Hay 2
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(t.f.)
NEW TEAS
IMPERIAL,HYSON &SQUCHONG
Ofthr very firft quality, and latest
from Canton, ,ia New-York, by re"^
No. i 9, f
Thud, between Chcfnu. and Market
N. B. A few Boxes of the above HYSON
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON l
AP Jl i°" kfe ; lers ,n Phil'dclphi',, **
/\ Collection of PSALMS HVVivc «
| A RITUAL SON (Is "ffd 'd fft SPI *
[Amhor,, an J publilhefl by O.dcr of t J r '7
h <' ld '"Mhe D<,ari„« ot. the Sai»,ti„ n
al. Men, met Philadelphia, M„ ~, "" " f
Price ol a »"gle book, 1,0 u mi. 3-8:1,
wi.h good allowance ,o who (akc ;£•
" 14 ' (ewf.) '
B O O K S,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MAT IT E W CAREY,
A!o. 118, Market-Street, PAiladeJfku.
'• A MERICANML\StUM,6om it,commence.
~a J a,,u " r V >787- 10 June ~02, i,
lever, vol. Pr.ce, nc.lv hound and luteled
(cvcntceri dollars anri three fifths.
This work, which is now condufled on an in,,
proved plan, containing the heft puces otblilhed
torand agamft the proceed,ng, of governrwer,!,
' found to com.,, at haft os a variety*
of political, agricultural,and mifecllbneous efay.
as any ever publilhed in America. Perhaps ini,'
one work are so many valuable docum. Ms refpefl.
|."g she h.ftory of this country. coHrfied together.
Hts ixce.lencv the Pref.dent of the United Sutei
has declared of ,t, that " a more ufeful lite rlry *
plan b*snever been undertaken in America nor
.one w deserving of public encouragement."
The lublcription ,s two dollars and a half per
| "in* Gentlemen it, the count,y who wilh to
he supplied with this work, are reejuefl'-d to give
commifl.on to friends in the city to lubfcribefur
...d receive if Any of the bock nuinto,
may be had ,n order to compleie feu.
2. Smith's Letter* to Married Women,oo Nurf.
j.ng and the management ot Children.
" We recm.mc.id these letters to the peruU of
tbofe to whom they are particularly add.tllea."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101—Price, bound,
62 cents.
3- Duncan'# Element# of 75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding— 50 r nts.
5. BedutLe# of Blair—so cents.
6. Ladies' Pockct Library, containing Mifi
Moie'sEtfays, Gregory's Legacy, ? Lady Penning,
ton's Advice, Marchioncfs ot La'" ben's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Ladv,Mrs.Cha-
pone on command ot Temper, Morc's Fabler for
the Ladies, Prict 6/6.
7. Smith's story of New-York. Piiceadol.
lai and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat,
tic, l. l d. of moral philosophy ?nd
logic in the Marifchal Aberdeen^.-Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : *' We
have seen nothing 011 these fubjc&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univcrfity in Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-filths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons. Pricc two dollar*.
11. Nccker'sTreatifeon the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bths of a dollar.
13. The Constitutions of the fcveral United States
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The Doway Tranflntion of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—Price, elegantly bound and letter
ed, 50/2—plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mccum—Price a
quarter dollar. *
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter doltar.
20. Cliriftian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. Hiilory of Charles Grandifon» abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
a dollar.
23. Srleft Poems, chiefly American—Price*
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large aflortment of
Books, European as well as American edition.*,
which he will dispose of on the most ieafonabl«
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor hirn witK
commands, may depend upon being fupplifd »■
the molt fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries
«r to 'ell flg&in. —
foHN Gould,
HAIR-DRESSER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in Rtn*
ral, that he continues to carry on bis bulinert
as usual, at No. I, .South Third-Street, n ea
Market-Street, and thanks his formercurtomer
for the favors he has received. ,
Said Gould has for fair, an in^l^ C V viU
Weak or Sore Eves, which on trial,has an
he found to anlwer the purpose.—He ,IS
vials from one quarter of a dollar to a < "
Any person trying the above, if not ol ' ..
aufwer the character given, the money
returned.
plans
OF THE
j City of Washington,
Sold bv the Bookseiwßli
i DORSOS', CAREY,, YOUNG, & CR' 1 ;
j "»•1 he prin of this Gazette u
' unnmy-One ha] to be j>u,J <! fit tmtojW'*'*