A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS Av ■, '
ND s ATM. DAYS - ; JOHN FENNO, No. 6g, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 44, oi \ 01. IV.] Wednesday, October -1
'
ON THE DISCOVERY OF AMERICA.
Or*"**, id\V:Tfd by M/. Jefepk 'Res J, cj tha ( Uy,
at tne Ute annivetfury Comoii/uemat held -at Prince
tony Kew-Jerfey.
(concluded.)
IT is the glory of* Columbus that this great
discovery C3ii in no degree be a fen bed to ac
cident. In contemplating the origin of the art':
and faiences, and those firll dilcoveries which
have extended the knowledge, the power, 01
the happine'fs of mankind, we find that most of
them were the result of some fortunate acci
dent, and, as it were, the unsought gift of hea
ven. Few of them were forefeen, and few of
them systematically pnrfued. The discovery of
Columbus was ail his own. It was the etfeft of
rational deduction, the offspring of a profound
and penetrating nlind. But geniqs, like his, is
a flower rare to be seen, and blows, like the
aloe, but once in an hundred years.
Jt is not mv intention to detail the future
tonduft of this great man : his persevering ex
ertions to extend the work he had begun—the
wifdorn of his eftabli foments—his dignity under
persecution, or the numerous virtues of his
private life—in all-, he was himfelf—great, ori
ginal and fpbtime ! yet Europe <aw him disho
nored and m chains, and meahjv folfc »■);»$ a.F'" v
rentine adventurer to bestow his name on the
world discovered bv Columbus.
The beneficial effe&s of the discovery of
America are viable and striking. To trace
and illustrate these would be a grateful task; but
the day, which hastens to its close, and the li
mits assigned me, prohibit a particular detail.
Suffice it, therefore, to observe, that this great
■event enlarged the bounds of human knowledge,
and opened a wider field to the view of the
philosophic mind. Cosmography was impro
ved, navigation advanced, distant voyages ren
dered familiar, and the whole globe laid open
to all the beneficial eife&s of an enterprizhig
commerce. The precious metals which flowed
into Europe from the mines of Peru and Potofi,
gave a new spring to the industry, and melio
rated the manners of mankind. The native
produ&ions of America, oy augmenting the
means of subsistence, have contributed to the
cncreafe of mankind, and has given to Europe
a capacity of twice as many inha
bitants as it could subsist before. To th« sci
ence of medicine it has rendered eifential aid,
and has enriched the materia niedica with the
'OQ.t povccrfuv icbrtfuge in lKttutc ; and la it,
but not least, it has afforded an asylum to the
©pp re fled of all nations. America, hidden for
ages, is laid open to view, at the very time,
when liberty, u hunted down intheOld World,"
was panting for the asylum lhe found in the
New. Hither, she retired with our ltern fore
fathers—here Hie preserved her facrcd fires—
here she beheld her patriot sons grow bold in
Jier cause, till in the fullnefs of time, she an
nounced herfelf to the world, and eflablifhes
3ier empire forever.
Oh J If amidst the sublime contemplations of
brighter world, the happiness of America can
it'll interest the spirit of Columbus. With
■what elevation of mind must he behold the
growing greatness of this New World. He
iees that virtue and science are the broad foun
dation oh which its prosperity must reft ; and
he rejoices to behold the numerous seminaries
of learning which grace our land, and smiles on
the ilJuftrious chara&ers who patronize and
support them.
[Here followed the vafediflory addrejjef te the Trujlees,
Prejident, Faculty and Studentj of the College.]
Among these we have {he pleasure of feeing
your Excellency*, and you, Rev. and worthy
gentlemen.f—To your peculiar patronage are
committed, the important interests of yonder
seminary ; and we who have just received its
firft honors, are bound to acknowledge your
attention to its welfare. To extend the em
pire of science, and spread its bleflings 44 o'er a
fifiiling land,'' are the benevolent objects of your
disinterested labours. How fuccefsful you have
been, let the merit of our predecelfors declare !
Those who have shone in the Senate and in the
field— those whose eloquence blazes at the bar,
or beams from the sacred desk—whole talents
adorn a public, and whose virtues endear a pri
vate life.—Thofe—thofe are your eulogiums,
and leave the feeblenefs of language far be
hind them. Oh ! may we, while we read the
d'ftinguifhed names that adorn the records of
Naflau-hall, f; om thpt of her earliest child, the '
eloquent, the illustrious Stockton, whose memo
ry is still dear within these walls, down to those
of the youngest of her sons. Ma y we, whose
names shall be recorded with theirs, like them,
do honor to your care. Say, ra> beloved friends,
while we recoiled the virtues of those who have
£one before us, do not our hearts burn within
to emulate their worth ? Yes, Reverend i
and worthy (gentlemen, we feel a generous \
ambition to repay your care, by a life of ufe
fulnefs ; and deeply imprelTed with a sense of
°ur obligation, we bid you refpeftfully
Farewell.
* The Governor of the State.
The Truflees of the College.
[The foregoing elegant Address, is re-pub
lished, by requeifc, from the American Daily
Advertiser"!
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STAFF
THE REPUBLICAN.—No. VI
T HE people nt tins country certainly . bad f,.-
great objects in view., which they noped
to attain lhe more eafilyby adopting, the new con
ftitutum. What weie those objc£U ? EftaUlifhii;,;
public credit w s certainly one, and a prmo-.J
one. To f»y notbintr about the juil:ce d.,c 10 in
dividuals and ibe wife policy i.i the long run,
(or a nation to perform us promifea, u is j>laii:
that there is nothing to be got nor fined even a*
I prt sent by the fouJefttricka governmerucoukl p'ay,
Ihort of 4)loilfng out the public debt at once. Foi
good crednt has proved already of more value ihar,
any saving t idt could have been made
By means of it the rate of interest is reduced bo in
at home and abroad.—One percent, interest fnvtd
is equal to a sixth part of tire pubitc debt forgiven
or released tp the people of the Uiijted Staui.—
Wc pay leiV than five per cent, now ; formerly wt
paid fix or even more. So far then the constitu
tion and the revival of credit have answered ;h
---expeditions of the people when they ratified it.
It hasldLned their burdens at least a sixth.—l h..,
!S ~ot —wc can borrow even at home nr*w at
five per cent. The United States Bank has a&:wlly
fcnt togovcrliment at that rate and a large Cipn ton ;
TX.* is njclui every way* to ru.» :•
paying off our debt, and to provide for pref nc
and future emergencies. This power to borrow
cafily and on good terms is no light matter, and
will not be thought so by those who remember the
diftrefles of the late war. America had need ol
all its faculties to fufiain it; every nervous cor<.
was drained and overstrained till it had loft its
spring— yet all was want, confufion and difbefs ;
the army had neither bread ncr shirts norfhoe-.—
What would not such a government and such a
state of credit as we now pofltfs have been deemed
worth could wethen have enjoyed them ? Would
not such a weight rhiown into our scale whileuhe
f-alance hung doubtful have been expefled to turn
it in our favor.—Much of the expences of the war
might have been prevented by an orderly govern
ment telying for fuppbes on readv money. A Na
lional Bank at such a time operating like that of
the United States would have been ineltimable—
1 hat of North-,America, under tvciy aifadvan
tage was found very beneficial.
Our liberty may be put a second time at rijfk,
and a wife nation, ptirfuing the principle of felf
prefeivation, ought to prepare every means of se
curity. It was the faying of a good Prince that
he chose his fubjedh fliould ke*p their iv
tbeir own pockets, for he would so govern them
according to their affe&ions that he could, com
mand it all when uecrffary for the exigencies of
the nation. Congrcfs by putfuing houeft meafurt s
tor the fuppoit or credit bring every dollar in a
condition to be called for when wauled to fecutt
the liberty and fafety of the counuy.
I his then was the point to be gained : It was
the great immediate interest of the p-ople to gain
it. Theie is nothing fanciful, no round about dif
lant conj« $ure to be made much of in order to
prove what has been afTerted. For want of a good
government and good ciedit, our debt was going
on rvt n in lime of peace, heaping interest on
princi pal—till the interest only amounted to no lef»
than thirteen millions of dollars. Congrcls has
caused the growing interest to be paid legulary,
and already the sum of two millions tour hundred
thouf<*nd dollars of the debt is funk. As our im
ports are increafinp to a tuiprifing degree, there
venue w ill become in a few years equal *0 paying
off immense sums of the debt. It may fafely be
afTerted that no nation in the world is more able
to pay off its debt, or has manifefted a stronger
disposition to do it ; perhaps considering what is
due and how much is actually paid ofF,no natifcn his
made greater progress. When it is considered thai
the government is new and the revenue of very re
cent operation, the people judging from what has
been done have no final 1 cause to confide in the
power and intentions of Cungrefs to free them
from debt.
It is strange Co hear men talk of tlie debt as they
do—as if Congress had made it, for the conven
ience'of having one :as if the fitft duty of Con
gress and the principal expeftauon of the people
weie a trick of State. Neithe' the debt nor the
occasion of it are yet forgotten. Therefore this
suggestion again ft the good intention* of Congress
in providing for it tnny be difregardcd.
When we framed the new government we ex
pelled to fee the trade and manufactures of our
own countiv protedfed and encouraged. The du
ty on imported fabrics has eminently advanced
our manufa£ture« ; so far the expectation of the
people has been realized ; by this means we are
iafer than formerly. In cafe of a war, an army
might be cloathed, and fnrntfhed with gun-pow
der and militar\ ftorrs chiefly from our own work
shops and mills. To those who remember how
I wretchedly we began and indeed carried on the
J war, tnefc considerations w.ill fcem weighty. Our
. trade ana navigation have risen in conlequence of
national protection to a pitch that was never bc
j fore attained.
A small force is kept up to defend the frontiers
a gain it the Indians.—To provide for the common
defence and pretention is one of the duties which
the people have enjoined upon Congress by the
constitution ; yet this little 31 my, not halt a mntch,
fays experience, tor the Indians, is an overmatch,
lays cowardice or folly, for the freemen of the
country, tfaofe fretmen who laughed at Britiih
and hireling German armies.
Theft- were the duties of the government. Ame
itca had a light to exa&vftom their rulers a per
formance of them. The public expelled, and im
patiently too, to fee them performed. They are
173
'•frrnit-d, furcc
Ihc -nut.tiy. On'tne coru>«:tv, l
growing' in wealth and people Ufter ever
v/as known at any former period.
Certain perions however write, not very calmly,
gain ft all thele measures, and those who fupport
td them, and those who exccute them.—They
that they are aiuircpubltcan measures and
founded in ill designs againlt 1 certy. They arc
(old that their arguments conclude aganlk the
coiftittHton, as they accuse Congress of the crime
of doing What the constitution made their fpecifie
duty, ai d what all America cxpefted. They com
plain of this anfwe» as severe and not juiT. They
Ly they arc friends.to the constitution, butoppo
fed to the measures alluded to. It will not be ea
sy IroWever, to persuade us that men arc in their
he; rts friendly to the constitution, and yet ene
mi s to ;he measures conforming to it, aud to the
fenie ot America when it was adopted. —Be that
as if may, the people have the happiness to lee
their hopes realized and their condition every day
improving.
FROM THE MARYLAND JOURNAL,
To the PEOPLE of MARYLAND.
A PUBLICATION, in the Maryland Jour
/"V «•' -. ' Calrwiioi-e Adrei tifei, ofi'dft Tucf
OAy, signed u A Citizen," contains the following
paragraph : 4< We all, as men oj gratitude, are, I
ioubt not, interested in the re-appointment of
:he present worthy Prtfidenti but as men, who
iave a sense of equality and a disgust of iuper
"ilions superiority, are, I am in hopes, linked as
7 st ron g chain againji the Vice-Prefidcnt. —In fart,
caking such for granted, permit me to recom
mend Charles Carroll, of Carrollton, Esq. as
.meriting the appointment of Vice-Preiident."
To a recommendation so pointed and unex
pe&ed, in Maryland, as that to turn out the Vice-
President, it may not be thought unseasonable to
pffer a few remarks for consideration.
I observe, my fellow-citizens, in the firft place,
that those men in the several states, who have
jeen oppoled to our constitution, have, ever
lince itseflablHhment, incessantly applied them-
Pelves to depreciate the chara&er of Mr. Adams;
hecaufe his abilities and principles were formi-
Jable to their views and ambition ; and because
to prevent his re-eleclion would be a point gain
ed over the constitution i tie If. Little sagacity
is requilite to perceive, that every man ot'abi
lity. who can be turned out of the adminiftrs
tion, or kept out of Congress, adds strength to
their cause and vigour to their hopes; and that
against the most eminent of those their heaviest
batteries have been raised, and their principal
sprung. To piove the justness of thjs
I charge, I appeal to your recollection for the
j mifcelJaneous publications you have read, and
travelling whispers you have heard, calculated
to destroy the well-earned fame of Mr. Adams,
Some of you are a'fo acquainted with what vi
rulence an anti-government faction have treat
ed a Hamilton, whose attachment to the con
i ftitution is unquestionable, and whose virtue and
integrity are equalled only by his great capacity
and extraordinary powers. From the mafter
workman in this craft, down to the meaneU of
his laborers, each in his way, or in his diftriA,
has something to obje<st:, to surmise, to insinu
ate, that may irritate sensibility, and lead to
relignation ; or that, floating on the popular
gale, may infect that general esteem and confi
dence he poiTefTes, which no patriot has ever ac
quired with greater purity of conduct, or held
by a more unexceptionable title. From the
; fame quarter also you fee sometimes to descend,
Upon the Preiident himfelf, a thjn and subtile
mist, which would soon increase to the solidity
of absolute censure, was not the radiance of the
char after too powerful to be o'ofcured, and the
veneration of the people too strong to bear an
open attack with impunity. These circum
stances are notorious; they are to be found in
print; tiiey are in the mouth of ahnoft every
antifederal from New-Hampshire to Georgia ;
they are the ingredients of their incantations,
and the spells by which they would transform
our best patriots into our greatell enemies! —
Tliefe circuinftance*, taken together, prove,
beyond a poflibility of doubt, a systematic and
organized plan to drive from the adminijlration oj
our affair* all those who have rescued us from
anarchy, and restored us to the dignity of men,
and the various advantages of an efficient go
vernment. It will not be said, that known
friends to the constitution and the laws are en
gaged in the combination againit Mr. Adams.
I deny that any such are engaged, and call upon
the opposition to name a (ingle individual of that
description, save, perhaps, a few who know
Mr. Adams through the medium oply of the
milrepre'entations of his enemies j a dejufioa
which, in men of candour, must yield to better
information.
I observe, in the second place, that Mr.
Ad\ms has been as firm and uniform a patriot
as America can boast to Have reared in her bo
som. In the firft years of our revolution, when
the colonies flood alone against Great Britain,
he a&ed a bold and diltinguilhed part in favor
of the liberties of the people. Congress, sensi
ble of his merit as a politician and patriot,
created him Minister to the United Nether
lands. His celebrated memorial to their High
Mightinefles, the large loans of money he pro
cured Under the eye of a Britiih A'ubaUador,
179 2.
1 Som «> ..--el'" 1 t
-'id their tievy vifh 1'" p.nri acknowledgment
oi '.»ui "tvhich coH them this cap
ture of St. Et» feat ins and a war with England,
torm a pyramid offer vice l ? far more interesting
to mankind than tliofe built of stone by the
Kings of Egypt. View him next as joint Mi
nister to the court of France, and you fee him
lonfpicuoufly eminent for
and talent*:, especially in negociating and bring
"ig to a clofv the treaty of peace with England,
v/ hich gained from her commiftjoners a greater
extent of territory for the United States, than had
ever entered into the mind of the most sanguine
American to expect. Having finished theft
high trusts, he was appointed Minister to the
court of London, where, finding that he could
not induce them to listen to a commercial trea
ty, on terms of equal privileges, like an honest
citizen, true to the dignity and interests of his
country, he requested of Congress leave to re
turn ; previous to which, he fuggefled mea
iures, since adopted by our government, that
have drawn from England a Minister, to treat
formally here of fubrjefts she would not there
condescend to discuss. The knowledge he ac
quired, in these fevc-ral millions, of the interejls
and views aj the courts of Europe, fit him in a pecu
liar fill, to the grcateft advantage*
the station he now occupies, where these inter
ests arid news, as they refpetl the United States, come
lb often under deliberation. To these fa&s
may be added, that in his letters from England,
and on his return to America, he exprefied not
an equivocal, but decided, approbation of the
constitution of the United States j antl that iij
his writings he is liberal in praise of those ftate
conftitutions formed as ours with checks and
branches, and divisions of power; those real
barriers against encroachments upon liberty*
haftv projects, and dangerous ebullitions of po
pular bodies. Take for example his introduc
tion to Abbt de Mably's observations on the go
vernment and laws of America. <4 If human
wisdom (fays Mr. Adams) can ensure the dura
tion ot'th? only forms of government which are con
fftent with the dignity oj human nature, the Ameri
can constitutions bid fair to be lasting; nor can
any thing, except an exceflive partiality to the
ancients, prevent our discerning their irfnite
Jtiperiority to the boaf.ed republics of Sparta and Rome."
Again, u it is poflible that some few additional
regulations, arising from local arid other acci
dental cirevmftances, might be made with ad
vantage ; but of the exact propriety of these, it
is impofiible for any to judge, who are not im
mediately 011 the spot : And the principles of
these confiitutions are so ot>viouf!y excellent, that every
one who underjlands the nature, and loves the enjoy
ment oj libett•, will acknowledge them to surpass every
tiring the world has hithertofcen."
Such, my fellow-citizens and
are the fenliments of Mr. Adams refpefting.
our governments, where reign superiority of
rightswith personal equality, and diftin<flion of
office without nobility of birth. Where, thtn,
would be American gratitude, were the friends of
order and good government to be " linked as 4
chain againji him,'* whose principles, or political
creed, is no more than the expreflion or picture
of our own constitution ?
I would further remark, that to bring for
ward, at this late hour (unconfulted too) one of
the best and wprthieft of our citizens as his com
petitor, wears rather a doubtful and invidious
afpeft. Is it done, it may be asked, in order to
.deprive Mr. Adams of ten votes, and thereby de
feat hn eUflion; or from a sincere desire to have
Mr. Carroll eledted ? If the latter, u Citizen"
ought to be convinced himjcfjy and be poffeiled of
.fatts to convirce others, that a fufficient number
of ele&ors, in the dijfeient states, will vote to
place Mr. Carroll in the Vice-President's chair;
sot on no other ground could any rational Ma
rylander hazard a vote against Mr. Adams, or
venture to risque losing his eleflion without a
certainty of carrying Mr. Carroll's. But cah
any of you think it likely, or even po/Jible, that
tlae antifederalifts of New-York,
Virginia, &c. would desert, for example, Go
vernor ilimon, their favourite, to give their
votes for so ' iitinguifhed, so decided, so un
shaken and incorruptible a federalift as Mr.
Carroll? To change Mr. Adams for Mr. Car
roll, would neither promote their views nor in
crease their numbers in the Senate ; who then
among you so credulous as to imagine that they
would give a fmgle vote to accomplish it?—
Whoever can believe so, knows little cf their
temper, and still less of their tricks. No, my
feljow-citizens, Mr. Carroll or Mr. Adams suit
not their purposes, and aie not to their taste;
nor will they ever vote for either with a view to
their efeflion. It is a very different character
they mean to carry, and your esteem for Mr.
Carroll is used only as a convenient engine to
withdraw you from Mr. Adams.
To these oblervations I think I may ven'ure
to subjoin* that it is not to disgrace a worthy
and patriotic citizen that will draw Mr. Carroll
into 'he lifts of competition; and to predict,
that if* he ever becomes a candidate for conti
nental favour, his merit and high qualifications
will raise him to a more dignified fiation. But
who can look forward to that moment, when
we shall stand in need of all his merits and aH
our courage; when the United States will be
convulsed to their centre by embrio Caesars,
for empire, and ftarceJy fayed by the
[Whole No. 566'friend* of order and virtue i Who, I fay, can |
anticipate that solemn crisis, of which this is |
only the prelude, without devoutly w.iflring to|
the present beloved Incumbent the years ot the
Patriarchs who lived before the flood ?
A CONSISTENT FEDERALIST.
Annafotii, OSaber .19,17^-
FROM TIIE l ITI SIItfHGH GAZEtTK.
Mr. Scull,
(aeries in your lajl.Jiom the Albany Gazette, lead me
' to nuke the Jolhuwg vCjcrvatmis,
WHAT has proouied the present war with
the Indians > Is it not the claim of tin.'
United States to tlie country weft of the Ohio >
Cede this, and we have peace. Shall it l.c fiid,
that tne oijett of the forces 1 ailed is the pro
teftion of these settlements!— The fa ft is, if
at the trcatv of Fort M'lntofti in the year 1 784,
the coniraitiioners had laid, we relinquith all
claim beyond our former purchase, and are fa
tisfied with the Ohio as a boundary, we (houkl
have had no war.
Tiie contrary was the language—it was fain,
that territory is ours; we claim it by corn] uc(t;
and you must givp it up, allowing you only a
Small cofner as a hunting ground and fettle
msnt, and a few goods as a bounty, not as a
price.
Surveys and settlements under the United
States of this territory, has.-bee 11 an inforcc
ment of the claim, and has provoked the Indians,
and has engaged them in continual war. The
older fett'emenls have been the victims of this
claim of the public. Shall it then be said, tlut'
it is to protect the western country that the
army is 011 foot ? Let the Congress instantly an-■
nounce to the Indians a relinquiftiment of claim!
to this territory, and we shall aflc no troops to
protest us: we Ihall have no trouble. !
But the Congress claim it; and have made,
and wilh to make sales; and the frontiers njultj
bear the incursions of the savages provoked
on account of this; they must be harrafled with
militia lervice; taken from the labour ps their
farms at times uhieafonable ; and yet be told
by uninformed peifons abroad, that tliey con
tribute nothing towards the experce of a war,
which is thus brought on them by the public—
What i because they do not submit to an excise;
when by submitting to if they would pay more
than teu times their proportion of the revenue.
We have seen the Prelident's proclamation,
which is all right; and he has seen ours, which
is, that we will neither eat nor drink with an ex
cise officer. Let the Preftdent do his duty, and
we will do ours. It is his to enforce ; it is ours
to defeat. We hope to have no difference on
the occasion, but each to carry his point if he
can. We flatter ourselves the power of opi
nion is stronger than the laws; and when a tax
is unequal, unjust, unpopular, opprefTive, in a
free government, it cannot cx.it long, or be
earried into complete effect. Z.
Milkr's Run, OBobcr 16, 179 '.
Foreign Affairs.
PARIS, August 21.
Mde NARBONNE, the gallant
. and gay Narbonne, has been
taken into cullody :—we do not hear,
however, that any weighty charge is
laid to his account. When he llio't
the King in danger he halted to his
aid ; he had on a national uniform,
and was found under arms at the
door of the apartment allotted 10 the
King and his family. We rank his
proceedings among the pice fraudes,
more worthy of compassion than ol
condemnation.
The Prince de Poix was reported
to have been in tbe fame predica
ment ; but we find, 011 closer enqni
ry, that he has hitherto escaped tht
Argus eye of the Police.
M. de Biron, in order to encouragt
defeitlon among the enemy's troops,
sent them the translation of the de
cree, which is so well calculated to
allure them to the standard of liber
iy, on account of the Angular advan
tages it holds out to them.—The de
cree is conveyed into the allied camps
in bottles of Itrong Nantz brandy, a
powerful bait for a northern soldier !
In war, as in love, every wile that
is practicable is fair.
On i hurfday the Spccial Tribunal
eftabhlhed by the,law of the i 7 ;h of
Angult, palled sentence on Louis-D a .
vid Connot, alias d'Aiigleinoni. As
ter a trial of 39 hours, by a jury of
his own country men, he'was convict.
Ed of debauching the allegiance of
several Frenchmen, and condemned
to die 111 expiation of hit ciime.
When judgment was pronounced
M. Gflelin, Ptelident, thus energeti'
cally ad die (led the culprit Con
demned by a severe, though just law
—go bravely to death j your life and
lincere repentance are all that your
country requires of you !"
During the trial, the prisoner at
the Wr urged very powerful and some
lubtFe arguments in his defence. He
a i Pl ?r ar ff W ' lh e,e i? aHCC - cafe, and in
chilfical language ; bm his f o ni, u de
abandoned him when lii, doom r „
pronounced. He w« executed a,
after ten at night, on the square
of the Carpuzel, by light of torches.
Though the croud was ijpmeufe, not
a lingle accident tcfdl: place.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
August 21.
A petitioner came forward and ar
raigned Gen. Arthur Dillon s con.
duct. He laid, he was La Fayette's
accomplice, and thought it advisable
to onier his con efpondence to be
seized upon. He was invited to lit
within the bar.
A member read a letter from the
council of the district of Douay.
The military commandant of Douay
had handed them a letter, in which
M. A. Dillon renewed his oatli to tlie
narion, 10 the law, and 10 the King,
exhon'-ng him to do the lame' Ihe
general council, after having heard
the lener read, resolved to (end a co
py of it to the National Allembly.
The Allembly decreed, that the
proceedings of the general council
should be mentioned with dilliniftion
on thcjournals ; and, 011 M. Duhem's
motion, they declared, for the second
time, that General Arthur Dillon had
lolV all public confidence.
On M. La Source's motion, the fol
lowing decree palled the lioufe :
All Geneiels, General Officers,and
fupei Ceded Officers, whether they be
ftil'pended by die executive power, or
by the legislative body ; Ihall be o
bliged to remain ten leagues from
the army in which they served ; and
cannot go nearer than ten leagues to
any of the other armies, under pain
of being confined during the whole
com fe of the war.
M. Albitte moved, M. Rhnme se
conded, and tlie Aflembly decreed,
that all ftiperfeded officers Ihould be
removed 20 leagues from the fron
tiers ; and that they Ihould inform
ihofe whom it concerned of the place
they had chosen for their reiulence.
Many citizens of the different lec
tions, wished the Aflembly would au
thorize thein to transfer the piiToil
ers of Orleans to Paris. The petiti
oners were admitted within the bar,
and their requelt was referred to the
committee.
The Aflembly decreed, that three
other Commilfioners should be fem to
Luckner's army, in the room of those
who were detained at Sedan. Mefl'rs.
La Porte, Lamarck, and Bi uat, were'
the comiuiflioners appointed.
M. Brifibt brought up a report re
lative to the treaties between Fiance
and the Helvetic Cantons.
In the year 1764, laid M. Briffot,
1 hole Cantons had engaged to fur
nilh 13,784 auxiliaries, the 11 timber is'
now reduced to 10,000 men, t he com
mittee extraordinary' tho't it would
be prudent not to continue the trea
ty. Ihe alliance of the King of
France with tbe Swiss, was nothing
more 01 lefsthan a despotic contrail ;
to break the treaty cannot be injuri
ous to us, while we hrtve a millijji 0 f
frenchmen armed for liberty ; we
(hould therefore not hesitate to de
c!aie, that the Swiss regiments are
no longer in pay. Having thus pre
nnfed, M. Brillot moved, that the le
gislative body iflue the following de
cree the National Aflembly, con
(ldering it neceflary that the* late of
the Swiss regiments should be speedi
ly decided, and confidtring that the
treaties with Switzerland are expir
ed, decree, '
ill. The National Affenibly, steady
10 the principles of French liberty
winch does not allow the defence of
tneir freedom to be entrusted to fo
-1 eign troops, decree that the Swift
regiments, and the allies of the Swiss
in the ferv.ce of France, cease to be
111 tbe service of France.
2dly. The executive power is charg
ed to leltify to tl,e Swiss Cantons the
gratitude of Vranee for the military
.ices performed by the Swiss re
giments.
. y. The National Aflembly wifl,.
''•S«o g.ve the Swiss a token of ef
Li I '. r C,ee ,liat those amo "g them
who desire to continue in the F.S
erv.ce, and * iaU take 0 „
tegimems, or legions, fl,alj b e treat
ed like French citizens clre «
They (hall receive, M bounty-mo
r° ~OWing :
U-ldiers V o°l 1C3 ' C °'' po, als 2 °o and
ii'iuiers i,o livres : thevfliilli,„
»'o.ed in,heir turn, a," "jl ft
,>roniouon they/hall receive their re
174
4t,1)1y. The executive power is 1
charged tD watch over the fafeiy of
the Swiss officers #nd foldieis who
fliall Jeave France-they cannot mar<ch
out but by detachments of 20 men
each, and without arms ; they lliall
be paid for their arms. j
Jthly. The executive power is
charged (o fend commiliiouers to all
the Swiss regiments to execute this
law.
6thly. Tbe executive power is
charged to declare co the Swiss Can
tons, that France wishes to continue
in peace and amity with them.
7-ihliy. The ininifter lhail give ast
account of the flaie of the frontiers
towards Mount Jm a and the neigh
bouring departments.
Two young «nd comely female ci
tizens, with pikes in their hands, ap
peared at the bar, forgetful of the
weakness of their fcx ; they gene
rously devoted themselves to the de
fence of liberty and their own comi
try.
Commissaries from the fe«flion «>f
L'Ule (a qtiarter ®f Paris) laid 3000
livre« on the table, and teflified their
approbation of the Aflernbly's won
derful labors.
JACOBIN CLUB.
August 17.
A member of the federal commit
tee communicated an address to the
society relative to finances. The
committee intended to present it to
ithe National Aflembly.
The address rested on the Follow
ing basis
I. To establish a prcgreflive value
11 the paper currency, from the nioft
considerable to the lowed sum.
2. To lay a duty upon all notes
payable to order.
2. To forbid the circulation of
or lil*er coin ; but to encreafe the
copper and bell metal currency.
4. To work the gold and silver
mines belonging to the nation, in or
der to keep up the balance of trade
with foreign countries.
j. To charge a committee to exa
mine the political Rights of Women
6. To repeal ihe decrees that con
firm, ani guarantee the royal loans
7. Totally to fupprels al! secret ex
pences, a disgrace to a free people,
who ftioold be candid, open, and
Without difgoife.
8. To firpprefs every species of o
peratirtn in finances for the national
Treasury. The address concluded
with an improved afferiion, " that
the trade with the two Indies, and
the potleiTion of the colonies, were
infinitely more detrimental than ufe
ful to the French nation."
A member proposed, that the name
of M. Rosderer (attorney-general-
Syndicofthe department, of Paris)
should be {truck out of the lift of Ja
cobins, for having told '.he Swiss offi
cers, on the ioth of August, to repel
force by force, and fire 011 the peo
ple, it found neceifary.
M. Roederer's name was effaced.
M. Montaut. " The three com
niiflioners sent by the National As
sembly to the central army went to
wards the frontiers. They were re
ceived every where with the molt un
equivocal testimonies of regard, re
fpe<fr and attention. The decrees of
rhe National Allembly wereapproved
of by all the citizens they met in all
the towns tbey went through.
At Meziei'es, however, they were
not received with equally flattering
marks of fatisfacftion. The inhabi
tants wished for the constitution, the
whole constitution, and nothing hut
the constitution. The ioth of Au
gust was represented to them as a
day of crimes, carnage, and murder ;
and the oaths which the commiflion
ers proposed did not appear to them,
as it really was not, agreeable to the
constitution decreed in i 759.
The general council of the depart
ment aflembled that purpose, en
tered into a resolution or putting the
commilfioners under an arrest—they
confined them in a citadel. — The le
Riflative body decreed, that the mem
bers who had voted for the illegal
measure, should appear at the bar of
the National Afletnbly. Three other
commissioners were deputed to notify
the decree, and to liberate Meflrs
Kerfainr, Peraldi, and Antonelle, the
detained coniuiilfionei s.
M. Robcrtfpicrie.— You have heard
chat the diretlory of the department
of Ardennes Usui ihe a ui l sc ; ttr <; - ]
a <} ee . Comm ''ii ßl)er « of tie :vl°-
| Adembly Under a,, arrej *; °' W ' \
very n r obable ' ,h9t *'w* ,ot :
would iiave aded iliti*;! lT T 1 H ' llet" t '
and jf thry ,f/ Ud ' ml r 5
pea fuppoix from f„ u f e r * ts '
■ r -«r
hopes,,mow appears efiden e 2«V
| Fayette was , 0 have fuppmed rt
-La Fayette, who is ever feadvi/" 1
a. villainous deed i s l 0 be p e , D l* j*
Gentlemen, have not die
been fotficien.ly impofcd
not La * ayeite know,, tob,"'.*
traitor .' With the vvordi liber. 1
coi.ltiturfl.n,' doeg „„t (hehjLu
vvilh to destroy the ,„e
and equality ? Should La Fay,?,"
inarch against Paris, | an , sure > e
«s one fide the National AflembU
which is now alleep, but w o uld Co™.
awaKe, if the hypocrite
out any hopes of intei elt to Mi j
Should the conlpirator co.no a®' 8
head of his troops to tfe capital
beny would cease to exist j ,h e rot
ten members of the legislative body
would join him. Such are the dan
gersyou have to fear ; but fuel, a re
ihe dangers which you feeu, ~ot
provide agamlt.
M Simon—lt is reported that the
people, whose patience is worn out
mean to ring the alarm-bell this
night, and excite some troubles, on
der pretence of accelerating the exe
cution of the culprits of the ioth of .
Aoguft. Such n measure would wur, i
be totally nfelefs : it would be dan.
geious and impolitic j it would be
dangerous on account of the detenti
on of the laie king i;i the residence
of the bankrupts (hankrnpts were
formerly confined in the Temple ;)
because it nirght be possible that.du'r
ing a popular commotion, some sf
the faithful servants of ihe Kirs
might aflemble and carry the bank
rupt off ! —it would be dangerous, as
the falf'e reports, which would un
doubtedly get into the departments,!
might lead the people aflray as to:
:he real cause of the very uft-ful, ve
ry (acred inl'tirrmion o( the totli of
Aoguft.—The alarm-bell, which it
talked of for to-night, is therefore'
an onjuftifiable measure, and all good
citizens should oppose it, they fli'ould
even, if nothing else could hinder'
the peopte, go and cut the ropes of
all the bells in Paris ; for there are
a thonlknd and a ihoufand in Paris
who, as they like to live by corrupti
on, would wiih to fee the splendor
of the Court leftortd.
The king is not in such deep de
(pstir as fotue may imagine ; for nor
witlillaliding the vigilance of thole
who }»ustt-d liini, he carries on a cor
respondence, and he is flill called I)is
majefly ; the letters are handed to
him in different ways, sometimes in
ail almond wafli-ball, sometimes in
the told of a shirt, sometimes in a
balloon-cake, which a municipal offi
cer buys for the Prince Royal; there
have been above twenty letters in
tercepted in that manner—all that
goes to prove that the Royalists, who
hitherto have been tyrants, are now
become lervanta, who ileep with one
eye open, watching for the favorable
inflant to rufli upon us. We mull,
therefore, be resolute and circum
fpetii, and not fuffer ourselves to be
led into the snares laid for us, other*
wife we (hall soon try 011 new fetters,
heavier than thol'e we have so lately
thrown ofF.
Adjourned at half past eight.
.September 3,
The Duke of tirunfwick, Hpon I'is
firft appearance before Verdun, lent
in a summons to the following pis"
port:
" The Duke of Brunfwick fun*
mons the town of Verdun, in the
name of Their Imperial and Pruffiatt
maieflies, to open its gates to the a'-
hij «f their majellics. Tbe troops
and the inhabitants of thi* town, v ''
otherwise tender rhemfelvW 2"' - Y
of all the e\ils produced by n "' lta . l J
operations, which "will bepiifhed «>''
the extreme!! vigour, in order to
je<ft the place to the powerof. isn, ' >
christian majesty, its legitiu |3ie 0 ,
reign. The inhabitants >»*? " '
fnred of the protection of ibeir nip
rial and Prtifiian mnjefties, and o
brothers of his inoft cll> ill' 3ll lll '
if they surrender upon t' lll
| niolisBRUSSELS, August 24,
" By letters from Vienna, dated
the 15th inlt. we are informed that a
paper had been palled upagainft the
Hotel de Ville, in which the inhabi
tants were invited to imitate the ex
ample of the French, and to cut the
throats of all the arillocrats. The
discovery of this paper has been pro
ductive of universal indignation.—
The Emperor was expedited at Vien
na 011 the 17th inltant. On the Sun
day following Te Deum will be sung,
and a general illumination will take
ylace.
Our government has not yet pub-
Jiflied the otlicial account of the tak
ing of Longwi.
LONDON, August 23.
The Bruflels Gazette contains a
Jong and elaborate contradiction of
all the French accounts, refpetfting
the fkirmiffies on the Flanders fron
tiers, and the dcfertion of the Auilri
au troops, and the mutinies among
them at Motis and Ttsurnay. It de
nies in express terms every aflertion
of General Dillon's letter to the Na
tional Afletnbly ; and affirms that the
desertion has been confined to the
light troops, and is not greater than
nfual.—lt observes that the Auftrians
are not in the habit of giving details
of such petty rencontres asthe French
have lately enlarged upon ; and yet
be it remarked, insert* an article, in
which the Aulhians are stated to
have ktlled abotit 20, and taken ijof
the enemy.
The report ofyefterday, as to French
affairs, was, that a levy had taken
place on Sunday afternoon in Paris,
by which from 40 to 60 thoufaiwl men
were raised for service upon the
frontiers. Such a circumstance, whe
ther a levy was made by force, or
othervrife, could Icarcely have occur
red, except upon the impulse of some
new danger ; and it is indeed be
lieved by these, who have the belt
information, that the French minis
ters had intelligence 011 Sunday morn
ing, which they refufed to communi
cate before measures were taken for
preferring the peace of Paris.
The Duke of Brunfwick is said to
have calhiered fcveral of his officers
for allowing the men under their
c<tmt:ia:id to coinn.it cruelties and
depredations in their march.
The village of Beauville, the in
habitantsaf whichattenipied todefeud
themlelves, was razed to the ground.
The town of Longwi was spared,
except a few lioufes belonging to
known and ardent revoluiionilts.
Domestic Articles.
CHARLESTON, (S. C.) OJt. 16
On Friday last Capt. Vincent, of
the sloop James, arrived here from
St. Mary's. While he lay there, two
vertels arrived deeply laden with
presents for the Creeks, and another
was daily expetfted. Those which
had arrived, failed up the river
Coldrain, where the Creeks were to
meet them, receive the presents, and
ratify the treaty. The running of
the lines is to be entirely left to the
commissioners. I
The presents which arrived in the
above veflels, chiefly confided of
ploughs, hoes, and other implements
of hulbundry.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) Ocft. i 3.
. Amofkeig Bridge was begun the
?d ot August last, at which time the
timber was growing, and the rocks
dilperfed in the river. On the 29th
of September following, which makes
J7 days inclusively, the bridge was
paflable for travellers, and is now
completed.
Dimensions— 556 feet in leiigtii, is
supported by 5 piers and an abutt
mcnt on each iide—the piers are 60
feet in length and 80 ill width—the:
outside made of hewn timber, and fill
ed with rocks—a bi ace extends 2c
feet from the upper end of the pier,
making ihe whole length 80 feet at
the bottom — the farthelt dillance be
tween the piers is 80 feet—the top
of the bridge is 30 feet from the bot
tom of the river—.about 2,000 tons of
timber were nfed in cynftrurting the
Wood-work.
PROVIDENCE, Otf. 20
Mr. Nicholas Brown's generous
donation of law books to Rhode-iil
and collcge lias arrived ; and they
are placed in the office of David How
el, Esq. profejlbr of law, agreeably
to the tenor of the gift. The book",
were pure ha fed in London by Mr.
John frrancis, of this town, and are a
very complete collection of law learn-l
ing."
By Capt. Taylor lrom Surinam, we
learn, that a Sloop, belonging to Mell".
Graves and Wightnian. of this io\vn,
being on the coast of Africa, the
Haves on board (about 20 or 30 in 11 um
ber) taking advantage of the Captain'
being confined to his Cabin by fick
nel's, role upon the crew, and killed
(hem all, except the maie and one
hand, and then killed the Captain,
and cut the Sloop's Cable, when ihe
drifted on fliore, and was deltroyed
by the natives.
Extratt cf a letter froriMaciaf China) to
a mercantile Houfc in this town, dat
ed January 1 7.
" 1 here are now at Lark's Bay, a
lin all port a little diltance from this,
four veH'els belonging to Boston, viz.
Brig Hope, Capt. Ingraham ; Brig
Lady Washington, Capt. Kendrick ;
Brig Nancock, Capt. Croell ; and
Brig , Capt. Collidge."
BOSTON, October 22
A letter from Mauritius, (isle of
France) dated June 3, 1792, received
in town lalt week, fays—" We ar
rived here 23d May. The Ship Fame,
Capt. Smith, Ship Fair American,
Capt. Lee, from Boston, are here ;
and Capt. Metcalf, in the Snow Ele
|an ore ; they are fitting out again
ifor China and the N. W. of America;
land two or three others from differ
ent parts of America.—Maikets are
[very cull here."
Wettminfter bridge con- 7
> iaoofeet
tains j vk
London do.
Black Friars do.
Charles Kiver do.")
Maiden do. |
Beverley do. }• Mafl!
Uoftou Pier |
Bolton Mall J
NEW-YORK, Otf. 26
We are informed by a letter from
Anifterdam of the 23d August lalt,
that an additional duty has taken
place, of one half per cent, ad valo
rem 011 all goods exported from the
United Netherlands to the United
States of America—and one per cent,
on all goods imported into laid Ne
therlands from the United States.
r Philadelphia, Oft. 5 1.
Monday last arrived here the Ihip Niel Mal
conijCapr. Gil!—by this veflcl London papers are
received to the Bth September.—A summary oi
the important intelligence they contain is ii
the following abftraft.
I The Duke of Brunfwick, after taking feve
ral fortified places, had marched with his army
'towards Paris,, and was within leventy miles of
that capital—ln conlequence of his fuccefles 01:
the frontiers, Longwi and Several other place,
having fallen into his hands, the National A'
fembly palled a decree exprefiing in strong
terms the danger of the country, and calling on
the citizens to arm and turn out to reinforce
the army—Six-ty thousand men were to be rais
ed immediately—this decree provided for a ge
neral alarm—the Tocsin was rung, and tbegc
ncralbeat in allthefeftions. The citizens imme
diately repairbd to the Camp de Mars to feleft
their volunteers, and make their arrangements
to comply with the decree for reinforcing the
army
It being fuggcfted by one of the people, that
previous t« going to the frontiers to fight the
enemy without, it was proper to take care of
the enemy within—the idea was immediately
communicated from man to man, and the whole
body immediately divided themielves into par
ties, and spread themselves all over the city—
they broke open the pi ilons, and put all thepti
foners to death; among whom were upwards of
one hundjed of the nonjurlng clc.gv, including
one biihop, Cai. Montniorin, fet.&c.—the con
iution continued at the date oi the lafi Paris ac
count, which was Sept. 3d. —The garrison of
L'ongwi consisted of 1820 men, who were all
made prifone-s of war.—Part of the Austrian
armv were besieging Verdun. —An account was
Ipubliflied in an English paper of the 10th Sept.
which was seen at Scarborough, stating that the
citizens of Verdun had demanded of the com
manding officer ihat the city (ho 11 Id be sur
rendered to the Auftrians, that he had been
obliged to comply with this demand, and that
he had in conlequence lhot himlelt. — Ihe
Englilh papers contain accounts of differ
ent ikiruuihes between the French and Auftri
ans with various fuccefs —but in an attack on
175
the French camp at Manlde, the Auftrians were
lepulled With grcatflaughter —An account was
cncu.ated HI i-aris at t • time of the massacre
whtui added greatly to tne fury of the populate
ami taat was, that four thouland men belonging
totue aiiayut M.Dumdarier,fent toreinforce the
jyamion ot Verdun, had beei, trcacberoufly ltd
into au aiubulcade.aud cut to pieces Anothei
U^ C ; J , U ;' t U - >s thc g'-'fifon of Longwi consisted
oi ,6 men—arms and ammunition in ahun
uanct—jthat the v.iieie number of the refractory
clergy deltroyefl, h one hundred and fifty one*
Miicm? W h«n is Cardinal de Kochetoucauld -
Among.the in the priion called the Ab
baye, were al! the Queen's ladies, as Madame
Lamoche, halt filter to M. D'Orleans, Madame
de Ma. ttote, &-c. M. D'Affry.— M. Moutnio'riu
was «am between two members of the Nation
al Auetuply Who were lent to. check the people
{•mill tie pnfons the populace proceeded to the
houses t>Jlu!p«ftedperl'ons,& whore vertlieyionnd
dtpHJ ot arms, or any papers that discovered a
coi relpondcnce with emigrants, they fiau-hter
et the owners—The molt moderate accounts
ltate the (lain to be tlie highest eftimare
is 7000—Tlie National Allimbjy, the public
es and the treasury, during tl.eie horrors
remained unviolated—The temple-, tlie leli
dence of the King aud hi ; family, was not at
tacked—the guard had been doubled, and it
was hoped it wou d remain in fafety.»-ThouEh
it was apprehended by many, that when the
.icwso, the capture of Verdun should arrive,
pajJiilacc- exai'perated by this new dilafier
wouk. destroy the royal family.— The two col
leges appropriated to the IrifbSturients in Paris
were both demolilhetf in the tumult—the Stu
dents elcaped.
The account of the capture of M. La Fayette
is contained in the following:
ExtraU oj a letterJrom Naviur, Avguji ao.
The advanced polls of Rochcfort, com
manded by M. Hafnoncourt, at ten o'clock last
night arrefrcd the French General M. la Fay
ette, ac companied by two Camp-Marihals, M.
Alexander i.ameth and de Laumois; M. Victor
Maobafcrg, Colonel of Chafleurs; C. Maubourg
the elder Camp-Mai fiial; Lacombe. Adjucant-
Gerteral and Colonel; Meflac and 'Sooleyran,
Captains and Aids de Camp ; the two brothers
Ao nein, Captains of Dragoons; Gouvion, Cap
tain Aid de Camp ; Bureau de Puzv, Captain
ot Artillery; with all their servants, and about
43 ho lies. These officers, who came from Bou
illon, wnere they were on pretence of reconnoi
tring the posts, arrived this day in this city. By
then account the army they left is encamped
behiml ia Chiere, between Mouzan and Stenov."
Eari Gower, the Britifli Ambaflador, is arriv
ed in England from Paris.—-The Marquis de la
F ayette is gone to Luxembourg, by order of the
Duke qf Bi unfwick.
93®
1096
1503
2300
1440
nso
1450
3ta. Luck tier is reinstated in his command as
Generaliliimo of the French armies.—A great
number of the French nobility daily arrive in
En^aod. —Lorgv i was taken, it is said, after
a feeble resistance—complaints have been made
to the I national AfTemblv of treachery in the
bui'ine(s.—-Fifty thousand men are ordered to
march from Paris to reinforce the armies.
Qornwaiiis is created a Marquis. Gen.
Meadows a;.d Gen. Abercrombie, Knights of
Che Bat!.. And Mr. Pitt is made Lord Warden
of the Cinque Ports.
The infurredtion and inaffacre In Paris took
place on the night of Sunday the second of Sep
tember, and the confuiion was not over at 12
o'clock of Monday the third.
Sin<fe the arrival of the new commilHonei s
and troops from France, the negroes, in many
parts of St. Domingo, have returned to their o
bedience, and began to work 011 the plantations
—Thfir niafters.it is laid now treat them with
more humanity chan formerly.
Saturday lalt arrived the ship Roebuck,
Capt. Bhfs, irom Bristol. The papers brought
by this vessel are to the 25th of August, not so
late as those received by the Kitty from
Liverpool.
Mr. Alexander Forter, of this city, arrived
in the Roebuck.
The 16th and 20th Britifii regiments of foot
arrived about the middle of Auguli last at Ja
maica, from Halifax.
About a fortnight since, at Christiana, in the
State ofDelaware, five or fix gantlemen being
together in converlation on v public fubjedls and
public characters, —one of the company, a Mi.
M'Kenrton, told a Jlory of the Secretary of the
Trealury, and as he luppofed upon findoubted
authority, nearly in the following words :
44 Colonel Hamilton, said he, applied to Go
vernor Mifflin ; and leprelented the propriety
of reftricling the democratic ascendency in the
national go vernment, which might be effected
by the introduction of aristocrats; adding, that
if he (Governor Mifflin) would co operate in
the formation of this counterpoise, the Secre
tary woujd piedge hirnfelf to get him elected
Vice-President of the United States.
u The Governor declined these overtures,
alledging that he had never discovered to any
one, and should maintain his veferve, whether
he was attached to this or the other principle,
in government; but he knew full well the un
alterable bias of those who fupj>orted him- And,
as to the Vice-PreJidency, he did not hesitate
to declare, that he was more ambitious of re
maining at the head of Pennfvlvania."
A gentleman of the State of Delaware, to
whom this,conversation was communicated, in
order to an investigation of the truth of the
(lory, called upon Governor Mifflin, who in un
equivocal term, declared, that, ,
u No Juch convo fation ever happened, vor could he
recoHeft tiny circumjlunce that could git e birth to Jo ri
diculous a tale."
Printers willing to adminiiter an antidote to
firhilar poisons, will give a place in their yef
pe&ive papers to this sample of the unfounded
rumours continually pr«pagated to deltrov the
confidence of their fellow-citizens in public
char after*.
XI,. ri' ■UEf TJ O
fol l° W| nK 15 a Lift of all the reft< { 0 ,
00grelS<brtheState ol " Penn '
V. Firdiey
F. A. Muhlenbern-
B- HciKer
Irvine
J- W. Kiftcra
T. Hartley
P- Muhlenberg
T. Fitzfi.uons
A. Gregg
J- Aimltronr
W. Montgo./e
.)• Sinilib
'J'- Scott
s -
J- D.Sfrgeant
,(• Earcl.iv
i 'loinpfon
W. Bingham
H. Wynkoop
Ibe firft 13, i t appears, are cliofea.
I'art of the French troops winch
lately arrived in the Weft-Indies from
trance, are now landed at St. Kilts ;
being driven away from Martinique,
as Hated in a former paper, they ar
rived at St. Kitts in diltrefs, and asked
sOl \ elief and protection, which were
granted them. Mter refuting
to receive them, the Royalilts
of Martinique sent two frigates to
bring them back—these frigates ar
lived at St. Kitts and demanded the
troops of the Governor, who did not
think proper to deliver theai up—oh
which the fiigates cut out the empty
tranlports and cauied them off.
We fee nothing in the Kriglifh pa
pers relating to the meeting of the
primary Aflemhlies at Paris 011 th«
261 h Augufl, agreeable to former in
timations.
By a arrived herefrom Mar
seilles, which left that port the 13th
[September, we are informed that 110
iuccounts had been received there of
[the near approach of the Aultrian
army t.i Paris—and it was the opini
[On at Marseilles that the Duke of
Brunfwick would not look at Paris
this winter.
/is yet, 110 irruption lias been made
into fiance, except by the army of
i lie Duke of Brunfwick—The Prince
of Hohenlobe is kept in awe by the
Monf. Biron, and M. Dumourier
covers the northern frontiers.
COMMUNICATION.
No truth is plainer, and if evert
our anarchy-men could deny ir, none
could preduce more proofs or more
believers, than that without govern
ment there can be no liberty. Weak
ening government, or bringing the
laws into genera] abhorrence, is nia>
nifeftly an attack on the liberty 'of
the people—it is levelling the in
trenchments round the very citadel.
Yet onr highfliers use every mean* t<»
make the people abhor the laws, tho
confliiuiion, Congress, and the exe
cutive officers. In their eyes, the
vindicating ilie laws and public offi
cers, is a crime—it proves meflnoefil
of fpirir and corruption of princi
ples. On the contrary, they dub
themselves the friends of the people,
because they labor to destroy all that
rhe people have chosen to efiablitb,
and ir is no fault of their's if oppoil
tioii is not yet made by force of arms
to the execution of the laws eDaded
by the authority of the nation. The
traitors again ft the eonftitutien of
Poland came with arms in their hands,
and the lying pretences of liberty in
their mouths, to overthrow the free
government and laws of their coun
try.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVFD at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Roebuck, Bliss, Briitol
Neil Malcom, Gill, Scarborough
BrigCharleflon, Garman, Charleftoa
Virginia, Deutay, Marleillet
* Ann, Franklin, Barbadoes
Sch'r. Olivia & Mary, Donovan, St. Domingo
Sloop Ann, Story, St. Dominga
. Newport, ICinus, N. Carolina
Abb-', Ames, Boston
fofiah, Howland, New-Bedford
Polly, Barnes, Baltimore
PRICE GF STOCKS.
S per Cents,
3 per Ceius,
Deferred,
Full lhaies Bank U. S.
' 4 fhar'.-s, 57
Unfunded debt of the U. S. tif on the principal.
And on ihe lutercft up to lft Jan. 1788, 1 gj.
Erratum —In our last Gazette, in tlie ftric
tiues signed " A Citizen of Philadelphia," sos
May 10, 1791, read May 8, 1792.
>r
i*
33'5<?
3-*34t
32 '47
2 9«3?
2X4t)i
21704
'7997
17372'
'"3'2
17019
«7J.(
1065;
' iS&S
j :i;6
'W.l
I
>4348.
ft I Int. off
12/9 S
>3/4
pi r cent, prcrnt
PRICE CURRENT.
Fin QUANTITY .— DoL LARS 100 CeIUS each.
PHILADELPHIA, October 31. (
Dill. ill. DlLs.ltj.
AX'CHPKS pr.lb. 7 8
Alluui, hnglnb, pr.cwt. 4 33
Ditto, Roch pr. lb* 11
Ashes, pot, per toD, 9° 100
Pearl, 137 M°
Arrack pr.gall. 1 S3 1 -
Brandy, common, 9 C |
'Coiuac * 11 j
Braziktto, pr. ton. 3 2 34
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7
Bread, ihip, pr. cwt. * 67 2
D uo, pilot 3 3?
Ditto, ftnall water, per keg 36 4
Beer, Am rican, in bottles,
pr.doz. bottles included, 1 4
Ditto pr. barrel, 4 ■
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 16
■New England 11
Oak 8 9
— Merchantable pine 16 37
———Sap, do. ' 8
* Mahogany, per foot 1C
The aooveare the shallop prices,
for the yard price, add l dol
lar 33 cents per 1000.
Brimstone in rojls, pr.cwt. 3 3?
Beef, Boston, per barrel 7 8
Country ditto 6 7
Freih, per cwt. 3 33 4 6
Blotter pr. Jb. 1
in kegs 9 it
Candles, Sperm, pr. lb. 4
Wax 53 5
— Myrtle Wax 1
— 4 Mould, tallow 1
Dipped 1
Cheese, Englilh, pr. lb. 1
Country 8 1
Chocolate 17 1
Cinnamon 2 40 2 f
Cloves i ?
Cocoa pr. cwt. 15
Coffee pr. lb. 18 1
Coal pr. bulbel io 2
Cojjperas pr. cwt. 1 6
Cordage, A merican, per cwt. 767 8 I
Cotton pr. lb. 26 4
Cutrants 9 1
Duck, RuTia, pr. pierc 11 r
—l—Ravens 8 93 9 1
Dutch fail duck, tS 20
fathers pr. lb- 40
ditto 11 1
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 75 f
Flour, Superfiue pr. barrel 4 c
— ; —Common, 4 t
Bur " iddlmgs, belt
Meal, Indian 2 *
ditto Rye, 2
Ship-fluff pr. cwt. $0 1
Fustic pr. ton, 20
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4^l
D°. Pr gall. g
«|ue, pr. cwt. 20 21 3
Ginger, white race, per lb.
Ditto, common
Ditto, ground pr.lb. <
Ginseng, 20 2
Cunpowder, cannon, pr. q.cafk, 3 73
Ditto, fine glazed .
Grain, Wheat pr. bufli Q
— 4 .
■ Oats 3
Indian corn
Barley 73 g
*—: Bell Ihelled pr. lb.
Buckwheat, per bulb.
Hemp, imporred.pr. ton, 12 0 1466-
American, pr. lb.
Herrings, pr. bbl. .
Hides, raw pr. lb. q
Hops
Hogfhcad hoops, pr. M.
Indigo, French per lb. i 20 1
-—-—Carolina 1 x
Irons, fad pr. ton, ,
Iron, Callings pr. cwt,
pr. ton, g, I
f, lg 24 «6 6
—N™',od, »
Junk, pr. cwt. 4
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9 tc
5 33 5 £
l 6° r
Leather, foal, pr.lb.
l ignum vita p r . , on , •
Logwood a 6
24
Mace pr. lb. »
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. 'g
" f cond quality /;
Madder, best pr. lb. 4
'MA f t ' WrOUgh,,pr - foot > !33 »ZC
,r pirs d '"o « f,
-Molanes p r -gall. ;
Mustard per. lb. «5
Q'ur, in bottles, pr.doz. ,
Nails, 8i sod. 121 i. and 20d. pr.lb
Nutmegs pr. lb. p ' 1
Oil, I.infeed, pr. gall. g
• 8
Universal
TObCSOI BooIJn OMAS DOBS °". »"d oihc:
AC-nH' 1 "' ln PhiUd.lohi,,
by ° f "V ™ ' h '^on.
all M< n, m t ;? n
T : {"'" »f I f " s Gazette, n,r.. n H
Dlls. Cts. Dlls. Cts.
IO I, Ditto pr. cafe, ? *5°
Swet t, best, in flaiks,pr.box 10 50
Dmn baskets, 12 bottles 5
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48 4
•» Tram 2 4 2 ' <
Whaie 22 2 4 -
Porter pr. calk, 5 33
1 ondow, pr.doz. 1
American ditio bot.incl. 1 4 1 60
('itch, pr. bbL • 173 2
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 1* 33
Lower county 10
Carolina 9
l'-a , Albany pr. bufliel 73
Pepper, pr. lb. , 3°
nento 20 :
taiiins, best, pr. keg 9
')uio pr.jar 2 5® *
> 1 (to pr. box 3
ice pr. cwt. 2 ,5° 2
loftn pr. barrel 2 33 2 67
{.urn, Jamaica, pr. gallon 1 7
; Antigua *
Windward 86
B.irbadoes 83
— Country, N. E. 67
it petrc, pr. cwt. 14 33
Tafras pr. ton 6 8
ot ditto 14 0
1, German pr.lb. 9
— Englifh,bUftered, pr. cwt. i 0
American pr. ton 213 33
Crowley's pr. faggot 10 67
iuke root pr. lb. 20 42
>ap, Brown perJb. 6
— White 8
—Castile it
irch 7
nuff pr. doz. bot. 4 5 60
permaceti, r< fined, pr.lb. 48
■5 lclotb, Englifh,No.i,pr. yard, 28
■■■■■ Boston. No. I. ditto 30
,— No. 11. 29
<11 Lump, pr.lb 24
Loaf, single refined
— Ditto, double do. 36
— Havannah, while 17 18
Diito, brown, 12
— Muscovado, pr. cwt 13 15
•iritsTurpennne pr. gallon 33 37
1. Allurn pr. bulhcl 24 2
Liverpool 29
— Cadiz 23 24
—Lisbon 25 27
• hip build. W. O. frames'p. ton, 12 13 33
Live Oak, 15 33 16 67
'o red cedar, per foot 33 40
ngles, 18 mch. per M. 2 33 2 67
•to 2 feet, . 5 33 6
to 3 feet, dreded | 33 15
ves, Pipe pi. 1000 . 29
Whiie Oak hogfliead, 19 33
— Red Oak do. 19 50
—Leogan 21 33
Barrel 10
— Heading 26 67
us, Otter, btft pr. piece 4 67
— -Minks 20 4°
Fox, grey 40 80
——D:tio ted 1 20
— Martins 24 1
Filhcrs 3J 67 i
— Bears 3 '
Racoons 27 60 (
Musk-rats 11 20
Braver, pr. lb. 67 1 33
Deei,inhair 20 30 '
a r ,N.Jerrey,24gal.p. bbl. 120
—Carolina, 32 gall. t 33 1 67 1
■ mpentine pi. bbl. i 67 2
acco, J. River, bed loolb. 360 373 i
inferior 3 33
old 4 67 1
Rappahannock o t 33 I
Coloured Maryland, 5 33 8 1
——Dark, 2
Long-leaf 24 0 i
Eastern-shore 2 2 93
Carolina, new 27 3 I
■ old, o 00 1
a » H y f °n P'- lb. 93 ; 2 g
Hyfonfkn, S3 £ 7
— Souchong, 50 93
C°ng°, 43 5 o
Bohea, ~ „„
"allow, refined* per bl.
ln P r - box > «3 33 13 67 ,
/eidigreafe pr. Ib. 4 ,
/rrmilliou, do. ,A3 t
'arn fh, per gallon 33 37
ne, Madeira, pr. pipe, ~6 22 6
L'lbon 120 126
lenrriffe.pr. gallon 6,
F.yal £
Port pr. pipe ,, 333
Ditto in bottles, pr.doz. .
Claret * 4 6 '
Sherry pr.gall. g0 1 to
* ala ga 77 o
V IX, Bees pr.lb. 2
• hale-bone, long pr.lb. ,3
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
In London, al 30 days, per 100/ . fieri. 460 '
" 6 ° da >' s ~ .457 35
at 90 aavs \
\mft, rdam, 60 days, pr. guilder,
93 days, 'o.
• overnment bills, drawn at 10 I
«!»-■» G-rht, at 4 0<7m per guilder,
Hymn Book.
John Gould,
Ha ir-dresser
f N ra| o fhft S he hiS "* P ublic >»W
~ ufl as K. T S toCarr " V onWs M*«fi
Ma"k«V~ i' ; S ° U , th Third-Street, rear
Weak „?Sore F 5 f ° r a ' inft « ih '« cure for
He f„ B "d t f y "' 7 C trbl ' ' la "< will
»o«nd to answer the purpose.—He lias it in
IH f'om one quarter of a dollar to a dollai
returned ' glV£ "' tho mone ? be
Ctf]
176
The SUBSCRIBERS loihe
Universal Tontine
Are informed, thai «i general meeting is to ho he l .'
jt the Siaic-Houle in this city, on Satuulay tht 3
day of November next, at 10 o'clock, A. N
agreeably to the sixth rticle ot then « ilocialion.
By older of the Agents,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sre'ry.
Philadelphia, Sept. lj, 1792. (t pl\3;
Stock Brokers Office,
N< .45, Great Dock-liieet, N ew-Yck k,
THi' sublcriber intending to confine himfeij
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
5 IOCICS on COMMISSION, B<gs leave 10 off,.
his lervices to his friends and others, in the line
ot a Stock Broker. Thof.who inay please to fa
vor httn with <h ii bufuief>, may depend upon
having it tranfa£ted with the utmolt fidelity and
i if patch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bo Aon, or any other
part of the United StaiCi will be itri6ll y attend
d to.
LEONARD BLEECKKR
Max a,
To the Public.
THE fuhferiber returns his most refpeftfu]
compliments to Kis friends and the public,
tor the many favors he has received, and begs
leave to inform them that he lids upon hand a
few fine toned
i Forte Pianos,
which lie will warrant superior to any imported,
and which he will dispose of on reasonable terms.
The great number of FoRTt Pianos lately
imported from London and Dublin, induces the
subscriber to caution the public against the art
ful inflations of persons comuiillioned to vend
them—who, for a very trifling compenlation,
recommend inftrumeuts that are nothing but
the refufe of the European Mufic-Sbops, and
imported at a mere trifle, and fold for the fame
price as a good instrument, to the g eat disap
pointment of the ignorant pnrchafer, who ge
nerally pays as much for repairs in a year or
two, as the original cost of a good instrument.
, N. B'. Musical Instruments let out by the
njonth or quarter, ljkewife Musical Instruments
toned and repaired in the beit manner, and on
the mod reasonable terms, by
CHARLES TAWES,
[4t} No. Walnut, near Third-Street.
ioo Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cambridge Common, Matfachufetts,
on the afternoon of the 18th ult. a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK, with a ftrcf clasp, containing
i number of valuable papers, among wh'cti were
th< lowing Public Securities, viz.
Maflachuletts State Notes— No. 2,425, dated
December 1, 1782, payable to Thomas Greenwood.
01 £' 2 3 l6>. principal—No. 21.399, ( * ate d J<i
nuaiy 1, 1785, payable to Nathaniel Partridge, lor
£ 10 ioj. pi 1 ncipa 1. — No. , dated Januat\
1, 1782, (an army note) payable to Timothy How
ardy tor £. 8 B*. id. ptincipal.— No. , a Noi<
(the number, date, and 10 whom payable, noi
; known) for £ 3 os. 3d. principal.—One Indent
Cenificate for Four Dollars, and a Ncw-Hamp
fhire Certificate lor about /-12 payable to John
and Daniel Jenks ; also a number of Notes of Hand,
one of which was for £. 572 given by Nathar,
Bond to Samuel IV. Pomeroy (by whom it was cn
dorfed) dated ill May, 1792, and payable 011 the'
1 ith Augulf following ; the others were all paya
ble to the Subscriber. The Securities are checked
the different offices from whence they were
ifTued, and the Notes of Hand by the differeiu
signers, they can therefore be of no use to any but
the owner.
The Subfci iber hereby offers a reward of One
Hundrid Dollars to any person or persons
who has found the fame, and will return them to
him, or leave them wiih Ihe Printer hereof, and
no questions will be aflced.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Salem, MaJJachufetts, Augujl i, 1792. (< ptl)
NEW TEAS.
I IMPERIAL, HYSON & SOUCHONG,
Of the very fiift quality, arid latest importation
from Canton, »ia New-York, by retail,at
No 19,
Thirrl, between Chefnu' anH Market Streets.
BOWEN's EXHIBITION OF
w ax-Work & Paintings,
AT the House lately occupied by Mrs. Pine,
in Eighth-street, is now ready for the en
tertainment of the Public.- ■ Among a great
variety of Paintings, are a number of
ITALIAN ir FRENCH PIECES,
which are new and very pleasing.
Alio, a laro;e colkrcHon of
NEW WAX FIGURES.
The Exhibition is open eve y day, from nine
o'clock in the morning, until nine in the even
ing.——Admittance Half a Dollar for Ladies
and Gentlemen, and ha J pncc for Children.
i. ickets for the season, (not transferable)
Two Dollars.
For Sa/c, at the Exhibition Rooms,
LIKENESSES of the PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES, in WAX,
And a variety of Elegant PRINTS in Frames
Sept. 21. (eptQ
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
AN ALPHAIit I ICAL LIST of the Duties
payable on <tli Goods, Wares and Merchan
dize imported into the United States ; exhibiting
|thc Rates payable on those imported in Shios ot
Veflels of the United States. anJ in Foreign Ships
or VclFclb; including the additional Duties to
which the refpe&ive Articles aic liable.
A TABLE for receiving and paving GoM —
e;r«iduatfd according to Law — iiiauk. Mamleds —
And Blanks fur thr various Powers Attorne\
iit ceirary in Bufiinls at the Trealury or
at the Bank of the United Suie*.
(.»,)
AI.SO,
Grand Famii.;;
PRO P &*, a'l i
fOR "'NT.NC .Y I .
An 'UEGANT-LDfltokyK-,
SACRED SCR I P*x "(i » -
#u^'sss^S^ r
j o "'' lar » e " d r#,
I HF. great importance of lire Holv Sr,;„.
to evny mrtrvidull; , h , air.nc„
"t of i:s dottriru 5 a-d piecepts, and i[> r ;
sublimity of it. p.ir-gc.W so
a ■ .'p'lil'.hiettoldftiM.on, a. to ptctitdtotc,
lion or oppofiuntty fnf tnlogium.
The pie, v orenirrpiueol Hidividuals hj>
fniM-d th s -nvaluaWc book 10 the public-nava
'et y otlo.m.« ; in foine editions tt has been highly
with fupeib engravings, which U
greatly enhanced us price; in oitien it ha* been
arc ompatntd with voluminous cmmnenianc.
■ Inch nrrcllaiily encrrafed the Cue, while a V 4!
rietv o( plain cheap copies have generally diHul
the knowledge ol the Scrioiurc, and made
mi l chafe ealy to every class.
Without wilting ill the finalleft degire lole(T<n
the merits ot thi various editions, whuli,, p ]j„,
or orp,linen'ed, which the public aie alrcadv n,
potfcflioii ot, il is ocrtinem lo remark, that veiy
manv readers o} tall.- and judgment have exprdlrtl
a wi(h lor a Familv Bible unencumbered wuh ad
ditions. There {I'll appeals room for another
erlinr.n on a beautilul new type, superior in foe
and elegance 10 any bible fhat has yet been pi mi. ,I
in the Englifti language, and which, leaving the
adventitious rircumfiances ot ornament or com.
mem, may exhibit the Oracles oj God in their i,a.
live limpJicity.
S PIC MEN OF THE TYPE.
5 And God laid,
'"Let there be light: and
there was li^ht.
With refpefllul fubitnflron to the judgment and
candmui of the public, the following propofaliare
otfeied :
J. The woik (ball be printed with the greairft
fideliry and attention to eorre£hiefs hrtth in ike
text and ifiargm. I reference*, on a (uperflnt Paper
made on purpose, with an elegant new T)pecaft
for the woik of the size of the above Specimen,
11. The work will be comprised in twenty
number?, making two elegant volumes in Folio;
:o be furtfifHed to fubfetibers at one dollar each
number. To prevent any complaints of want of
Dun&uality, no part of the work wll be delivered
unless paid for.
111. The fir ft' number, eontairiiifls fifcfv folio
pages, el gantly printed, will be fumtfhed on thfi
firft Saturday of July next, when fubferibrrs arc
to pay the price of th<° fir ft and second numbers,
and the price of one number to be always in ad
vance til the work is completed. The fuhf qurnt
numbers to be publilhcd regularly on the fiift Sa
turday of each fuccceding month, till the whole
s finifbed.
$3" Subfrript ions will be received in Philadel
phia by 'be Publishers, Thomas Dob son. N'o. 41,
SouthSetond-ftreet,and John Parker, N0.2;0,
North Second-Greet ; and b\ all the BookTeilers:
n Charlrfton, by William P.Young; Richmond,
jhv Aichibald Currie ; Baltimore, by James Ricc;
Wilmington, by P.Mer B'ynberg ; New-York,by
I homas Allen; New-Haven, bv Hair Bee'?;
Piovidence, (K. I.) bv William Wilkwfon; Sa
lem, bv Thomas Cufh-ng ; Boston, by Da'id
Weft, B' njamin Guild, and Thomas & Andre**.
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
In the Commonwealth of
A SYSTEM
for thr DISCIPLINE "j the ARTILLERY it tit
UNITED STATES oj AMERICA;
6 R.
THE YOL'XG ARTILLERIST'S FOtKET
COMPANION.
IN THKEE PAK TS,
Part j./CONTAINING ihe duty and prjfhce
* Vy of light firld atiiU'ry.
Part 2. Containing the theory and praflictot
: 10 which will be added, an «-
traftofa Trcatifeon ihe onpm and
Coufls-Martnl, wroie by an experienced Owe.
in the line, and who did duly as Judge-A voc«>
in America.
Part 3. Laboratory duty ; cohtaininf a g rfa
riet of directions for composition, and the met 0 •
of making artifi ial fire-wo.ks, and th * {oI T .
of ammunition for the different kinds ol ord-
nance.
Bv WILLIAM STEVEN J, tjj-
An Offittr in the American Amll^'V' ? , rc
whole of the late Revolution, and since
Militia.
CONDITIONS. ,
This work lo be printed r> n good pap" jn
handsome «Vpe, neatly bound and letters ,
ihrre pocket volumes, containingupvar .
thousand pages; ilH.ftraicd w»h "
ot explanatory plates, executed b> aoiea •
The price to fublcribers, One
—to non-fubfrnbers, f £...
'ume : and ihofe who lubfcribe tu' llx lrt '
have a . umlm
ThU- vrter -ftttrt be puhlidse^**
hundred copies are (übfcriltd fo'. ;,h the
Subfcri"''"" papers will he <> UiH'*
principal Pr nters ana Bookfelk" t
States of America. —
PLANS
OF THE
City of Wa'fliington,
Sold hv the Bookselle««. . <AA
notsos. i aß'ey, younc. a ik< ■■
- Tke J;if 'RK'AL of
of tic SEX.A ft. or the U SITED hTA *- '
had tf the Editer hertcj.
1!
i