[No. 15, of Vol. IV.]
MANIFESTO of the Government at Brux
rllks in aniwct to the UuUi*tivn cj u-uf v/t 1/«
pirt oj f ranee.
PROCLAMATION,
(concluded-)
THESE meafnres, which France seems now to
have forgotten, were quoted to the prince? ot
the empire as an example proper tor them to imi
tate 111 the refpe&> ve ffates, anr3 with which the
defpoiic agents of the French government wouiti
be fatisfied.
We (hall avoi<l taking notice of all the calami
ties with which France is aHli&ed, we should leave
to time the disclosure of the machinations perpe
tually recommended by a set of insidious writers
jn their dangerous publications, were it not evi
dent that, at the moment of the intended aggres
sion againlt these provinces, a resolution is taken
to ipread tfce poifcu of a ftduftive illusion on the
pretended advantages of the French conflitution,
with a view to make those pat takprs ot u who
may be deluded Uy this means ; but it is neceii'ary
that the people who aie confided to our govern*
mem be reminded and informed that the king
dom'of France groans at this time, in the name of
liberty, the moil hateful ftavery, every fpe
cics of vice, of the molt unhridl&l paflions, and of
a species of »ns»(£by whico ts without example;
that rights and property ate abolilhed ; that the
holy religion which we profefs is there trodden
under toot ; that altars arc profaned and polluted ;
that their trur ministers are deprived ot their juil
rights, ill treated, peifecuted cv n in their retreats
ainoi.g foreign nations, and replaced by intruders
who have no million from the hieraichy of the
Church ; that the pallors of the people have even
been deprived ot the diltincbve vestments by
which they were known to their flocks ; that in a
jmonftrous code, rights have been extolled which
man cannot enjoy in foocty, and which he
tacitly renounces, by being boin in civilized af
fociattoii* ; that, purfuaut to those chimerical
rights, attempts have been made to abolifn, ov. r
turn, and confound those real rights which have
been tranfmnted under the protection ot the fun
damental laws of the kingdom, from generation
to generation, to those venerable dalles 10 which
the French nation had in every refpett, the highefl
obligations ; that real property has given way to
the name by seizing the eilates of those who had
Wen folcmnly inverted with them by time, by
the laws, and by an uninterrupted poflVflion a
hundred times renewed and confirmed by the
trud representatives of the nation ; and all thii
under the deceitful colour ot an equality of chi
merical rights, not exiftingin faff, and annihilated,
if it could for a moment ertift, by that variety o! '
character, ttnpreffed on all mankind at their birth,
by they share, in very unequal proportions,
inoial faculties, the very diiproportion or which
has always determined and will ever determine
the afcendeney of genius, itrenglh, pattcnce, in
dullry, and economy over the oppolite qualities,
together with all the advantages which may law
fully arise hom them, and which may be trauf
" letted like every other species of property.
Finally, it is necvflary that the faithful fubje&s
.ol 1115 inajefty be intoimcd tha - , while pains are
.taktp 10 <. xiol the pie tended glory and profpeiity
oi the kingdom of Fiance, lately the moil flouriih
iiig in Europe, there is now no commerce, nocu
* culation of I'prcic or goods, no public force, no
jullice, uo police, and that the pnilofophical per
secutors of all those who are not of their i.ft,
kpow no bounds to their exedjes, which they ex
cite their people to commit, except a taticty ol
crimr«,
Who, a s t rth-Sy could be so blind 01 stupid a
,to p.ace the leatt confidi nee in the promises and
in the iufidious afl'urances made by thole tyrants
, to thofc nations whom they wtlh to subdue, thai
they will refpett their property, their religion,
their rights, their privileges, and their conftitunon ?
Tyrants, who, fwee they have usurped the public
power and force in France, have trodden under
foot, with an affrontery and audacity hcuhertq un
heard 01, the mo ft solemn public treaties, all rights
human and divine, and every thing which is held
! m.qft sacred all over the world ; who, the moment
they, thould bee me the mailers ol one province,
would Icize, a* they Have done in their own
tiy, the estates ol the clci'gy and nobility, and the
property ot the cili7.cn-.
Once mote, having never haa any inclination
to meddle with the internal government of ail)
neighboring Rate, we fnould not have entered on
these ?ffl 6ting details, relative to objects which
are foreign to the government with which weaie
rntiuftrd, were it not that French writings and
French enjiflaries, and even the recent adts ot the
11 w leg»flature of France have a tendency to ren
der a fylb-m ol innovations whether
good or bad for the French nation, certainly and
decidedly ruinous to the people under our govern
ment ; bccauf" it is lubvofivf of all that political
organization delineated by a conftiiution which
tTicv love, whtch the lovereign has engaged to
maintain, and on which lhe o? Belgium
has tor ag. been founded.
It was our du.y to warn the people of the im
minent dangeis with which they are threatened.
We have laid belere them tinths which all well
meaning pcrfons will acknowledge to be ftnking;
«n<t ib©v "will, of courle, use their uttTioft endea
vour* to roarnmn peace and public tranquility
with'n tKcf? proyittces, and wo (hall thoic
an tnemirs to the (late, and treat thtm as iuch,
who ftia!l attempt to disturb them.
(Signed) u Maris Albert.
(Counter-Signed]" Baron di Fetiz.
Pone &BryjltU. % Aptil *9, *'92
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENS'O, No. 6q, HIGH-STREET, PHIL A DEI.Pi-] IA
Saturday, Jui.y 21,
On -j.d a Fabliik V.Kami nation too
j!act in tr.e new A, idemy lately founded in Alien'
Townjuito, Northampton county, when the Vijttut
and bounder , ■ //,• -.-jry , 1 <> led their adorn a
tion of the impr. v.- r.cnt of the bo\s, and were pi *•./<•<
to congratulate the mujlen on that fuccns' itt tint
refpcaivt projcffioris. Thejollozving Oration iva
delivered by one of the young Gentlemen.
IN meditating on the superior advar-tr.:,-;*s,whirl
mud in all places and at all titrie s arise ;o thof
.>t liberal and moral education, no country has c
er difpUyid so rxrenfjve a field to nlm ; mem, a
hat in which providence has Ci*it our lot. lavor
:d by he •.vcu Willi a mild and happy government
wc behold ourselves participating in all the Iweet
)f liberty, «njoying without interruption the iv
efiaries. nav,thedelicacies.ol a Iruitlul and Inend
y toil. Strangers to the tyrannic sway ot arhitin
y power, we no longer hear the piercing groan
>f the vifctrms ot oppreflion—-we are no
aught to consider ourtelves Lhe children ot a.i en
laved people, fubje£t the caprice of no forei o
.fat peis, and e\pole dto /n* tigid impoliuous o
iO,hireling of illrgotten power, we poiiefs (if wi
an but ditcov. r means Of enjoyment) no final
iGi non ot the molt ueceliarv ingredient* ot humji
uppinefs. Our country the moll ex-enfive, i;n
uoit independent, ot any in the Chriliian world
las witmil herfelt innumerable refourcc* of grow
tig greatness and wealrh. 'Blclfed with n valt va
itiy of clirmtc, her no; the n territories 4ir pit*o
ilii'llv furmlhcd with the producc of fhole ot th
outh, whilftthey in return are indebted to lii
lorth lor thofc (upcifluities, winch arc ever in <_.>
nand by a ric'ii and civilized people. ,Vot con
ined to the limits ol iier own domiiuoi.j. nitiu
ms prelcribed means ot her becoming great t>) th
ifiHancc ot people icmoved trom us by immcu'
ceans, whole untriendly climates deny them tti
uxuric s, which ours molt liberally supplies. Pc
uliarly fortunate in her enterprizes, her ions ttov
nay jultly claim that rclpe£tal>ilit\, which niui
ver murk a great and commeicial pectpie—a peo
>le whole actuating piinciple is ; un.iv? i lal li hei cy
vhole affairs are conducted by the molt ditincei
lied, the molt patriotic members of the conimu
ir.v, whole every wilh regards the public good
Jnder whose lenient guidance we not only ar
trangers to thole religious contentions, whic
i«>. v-j ever deluged the world with blood ; bur b<
loid univcifai toleiation of iontiment pervad
very civil and political body ; lee amity jeigi
>etween (octettes ot various denominations, anc
he primeval ipirit ot equality upholdeu here, m .
i eater degree ot purtty, than in any other coun
ry under heaven. Under the influence of lucl
nvaluablc advantages, ought we not to imptov
•er oooortuiiii les ? ought we not to endeavor t<
tiain chat portion of felicity, which lite is capabr
»t that felicity (without vanity I expr< Is inytelt
\ nich may be procured in this laud of freedom
nore cafily than in any other part of the univerie
I o ctfcfct this end v, hut particulars ought to ca!
or the attention of parents? what claim their uu
emitting alliduiiy il not the education oi tfiei
hiidrea ? this is the balls ot promotion ih thi
i!e—this (if not perverted) is the ground wyrk o
ternal h «ppinefs. By this the foul is cx-Mudet
nd ra led to views worthy of herlelt— by, tins Ihi
►ecotnes acquainted witfi. the (tupendous woikso
ler creator, and n» 'famiiiart/A'd with the moil re
note causes ot things. How then can that whicl
s big wuh fucii inettimable trealures be n
d ? do we not behold the daily advai.cenK nt o
nen of parts ?do we.not fee merit conducted t(
t:»rewaid ? have not liberal bred men of .ill conn
ties met with encouragement in Am rica ;am
hall-wc, who are enLitled to superior privilege*-
leny our ft Ives a participation ol thole whic!
sa free people we may jufily cXpeit ? no, th
pirit of ambition has operated, with luccels ii
l ilfereut parts of the union, and it'll c"ii-inues t
pread its wholcfome influence. The flame lectn
low to have reached this par t. O! may it worl
ip the resolutions of you my country men, lo 1;
audable an undertaking.
Pnlymni, the father of the celebrated Epam
londas, is f«iid to have spent the molt ot the lot
une he could give his lon upon his education
he Lquel ol his life lhews to what infinite advan
age it was applied. Would this noble spirit in
L ine vour bosoms, would ye devote p -rt oi im
noperty which mult be their'sat your diliolution
o their education, you would not only diicliaig.
!ie duty of parent?, but that of men anxious to
he profperitv of our country—ye would make ;
nore weighty, a more inirinlically valuable dona
ion to the community by such an application
h;in by bequeathing 'he molt affluent, the molt ex
(-(five foitunes. Your children would be th
'iops ol )our old age, an honor to themselves ant
n ide of their cuunti \. Wcie men to think astht
ncient Spartans formerly did, refpefting the edu
ation ot youth, no conlideration could prevail oi
hem to omit a inattci of such public utility.—
That wife and prudent people conceiving the Spar
an youth to be more immediately the childret
»f their country, th;;n those of their refpettive pa
ems, eitablilhv d seminaries, into which they ien
:i their,yon.h —In re tlwy iei.iai:ied until the ag>
'Imaturuy, under thecire ol able millers, an<
rom hence", as the inclination of cach tiiiefted
aunched into the employmeni ot their country.
'J he wisdom o the Terlians in the mai.jge
ncntof their children has been no less admired
L'hey did nor permii parent.- to dtliow what edu
ation they pl'-;<fed-on litem ; but obliged tbcm tt
rnd them to Ichools bounded at the pnbiic charge,
vhe<e tliey rece-vd f.-ch mil; ullion, as was deem-
BJeccildiy to lit them toi the virious ernploy
nt nts ot their country. Ail thofc who iccidc r.-
aliy did not partake of this public mode of cdu
ation, weie indiiciiminaifly excluded trom all
he honorary fer vices ol then country? Shall Aine
57
f icans then, in the enlightened days of Christiani
ty, prove more |cmif& than those heathens.'' Shall
t!ic' dr<- :ne ihc acccptance of thole favors, which
Prpvuience molt bountilully off-, rs ? Shall they
ftillremam unacquainted with the which
are in tlore sot them ? That ambition which ope
rates in the jjafoms of many of our countt vmen
to represent their fellow fubjc&s m the kgifloturr
of their country, fViouid llimulate them to furrtifih
thrir children with the rudiments of wisdom, rh*t
they may the more ceit. inl> have it in theirpowet
to render her in their turn, thofc services, which
she may one day (land in need of > and which thc:r
refpr£tive situation* in life may make acceptable.
This, iudependeutiv of oirer more iiitereftwigcon
fi derations, ought to determine your doubts oni
this hcid. Let this then, my countrymen, call;
lonh your confidcration. A moment's attention
must convince you, that no provision you can make
lor your children, will more amply answer your
wi flies, more amply repay the toils and diificulties
which mult be encountered by youth in the at
tainment ot any, kind of knowledge, than a jjood
and virtuous education.
P A R 1 S, May 10
THE houfeof the Jacobins is to be
fold, therefore they must seek
out for another spot ou which to hold
tbeir fittings—with a changeof place,
it is hoped they will change their mca
fnrcs—The universal cry is, the Ja
cobins have ruined France —
havs latlely moved that the protec
tioi: of the State (ball be put into the
hands of what they call a national le
gion, to be conipoled of Invalids !
Thry have again revived the absurd
idea of transferring the French crowil
to the Honl'e of Brttufviick —a fliort
time will determine at what value this
precious diadem is to be elHmated.
A bill has been ltnck up in all parts
of the town, intituled, a petition of
ten millions of the French nation !
it is however only signed by fix Jaco
bins ; it recommends depriving M.
De La Fa v htt e of all military com
mand ; it fays, his victories would be
more ruinous than onr late dil'graces {
so that it appears every thing is to be
wrought for Francs and Liberty by
magick, or rather the c;u:fe is to work
itfelf.
Rochambeau is said to be 110 less than
a.traitor ; that he is in an infamons
league to enslave both France and
glanders -, —the proceedings at Lijle'-
are spoken of, as, in some cases which
could be named, worthy of imitation!
The subsequent observations have a re
trofpeil to the Man'tfeflaiS ijfucj by
the House of Auftr'ta aiid their General
in the Brabant 'tne provinces, to jnJUfy
the combination of that ."id certain o
ther continental powers againfi the re
jormedgovern;aent and anjhtiition oj
France.
Nothing can afford a clearer proof
that governmental reformation is far
behind national reformation, than the
principles which the Governors gene
ral in the L'ow Countries have dared
to publish Kdilfeminate in their pro
clamations. XVe there find aliertions
[the nioft falfe, imputations the moil
fianderous, and the denial of fatSs the
molt notorious, 'l'liey deny, for in-
Ihncc, that the emigrants have either
he'en protected or tolerated in Ger
many ;and that the French travellers
and residents in those dominions have
been infolted, abused and plundered.
This audacious impudence that can
cooly deny fa<fts known to all Europe,
is not new in their fyllem of politics.
What is molt aftonilhing is, the deli
berate coolness vvitli which defpotifin
pnblilhes the catechifin of its faith,
and repeais the ancient creed, at the
present period as it would have done
3o years ago. The sacred name of
God is iauroduced to fandtion their
worse than Gothic abuses of true go
vernment, the perpetuity, we may
fay, the eternity of the molt absurd
institutions, couched under the res
pedable appellation of fundamental
laws, but in l'a<ft annihilating the
rights of men, who have taciiiy re
nounced those rights, merely for the
benelit of aflbciamig together, and
living under a defpotifin, that has
made them its abfoiuie polieiiion and
[Whole No. 357.]
properly. Ami these aie the base
principles which ait- preached up to
Jr'.urope at nearly the dale of tlie
eighteenth ceimiiy.
L O N D O N, .May 8
The letters by the Flanders mail
delivered yedetday confirm in evfry
refpeit the 1 total defeat of the Freucti
in the two actions before Touruqy and
Mons. In the annals of the French
hiitory, we believe their troops never
met with similar disgrace, which is.
heightened by the cruelty of their
conduct towards their officers. Tha
Romans made it a practice to admin
iiter every soothing comfort to their
Commanders under misfortune, —;he-
refined manners of the new order of
men in France make the Turks their
example. [Eng/ijh Triumph.]
At the af&ir of" Alois, aco French
emigrants were present, but without:
arms and without commissions ; and
their conduct was so tiilpleaiing, that
they were ordered to cjnit ftions in
24 hours. Those (liil remaining irt
the Low Countries are seen every day
passing through Br:i(fc.'<, pu thpir way
to join the Princes, for fear of being
ttruck out of the military roll.
This instant orders are jfl'ued to
the emigrants to <]uit Liege, Montmedy
and Trevet, to prevent the eleifloiates
from being attacked on their account.
Ext raft oj a letter from Haerlevi, May 11.
" We have received accounts from
the Auftlian Netherlands', that the
approach of the army of M. de la
Fayette had made fomechange in the
polition of the Aulhians,»ho had re
tired from the polls they had taken
poUeflion of; and that as M. de la
Fayette advanced by bally marches
towards Namur, the AnUrians drew
in all !heir ourpolfs, and had fortifi
ed themselves within the Citadel ;
that a very serious rencontre had taken
place between an A u [Irian detach
ment and foine of the troops under
M. de la Fayette, in the neighbour
hood of Charleroy, in which it is laid
each party claim the victory. The
action is (aid to have been brought 011
by M. de la i'ayette, making a feint
attack to Charleroy, Which'drew Ge
neral Brown out to succour the place,
and an act ion en (tied.
" Letters from Namtir, of the 6th
of this month, fay, the ariiiyofM.de
la Fayette had not then appeartd be
fore that place."
A letter from Rome mentions, that
the Abbe Maury is at length invented
with a public character* by the Pope ;
his Holiness lias created him an Arch
bifliop in fartibui, atid has appointed
him his Nuncio at the Diet tobe held
for the election of aiy Emperor. He
hns further graftred him the Aim *of
three hundred and thirty thousand
French livres fur the expence of his
equipage.
The-detacbmein of the French ar
my, who marched to St. Ghiflilain,
were preceded by a band of mu(ic.
Whenever ibey arrived at an Austri
an village, they halted, and regaled
tlie earsof the frightened inhabitants
with their favorite tune c.a ira. This
was continued till General Hea-ulicii
spoiled lheir concert by the found of
his trumpets, when the philosophi
cal Musicians hartily decamped, in a
chorus of sa Uv e q_ul ti ut, leaving
their Batterie df. Musiquje in the
hands of the enemy.
KRF.NCH POLITICS KO R. 179*.
Without acknowledging the truth
or propriety of the following lite
ral allusions —we inf«?rt them as
being the production of a female pen.
The Throne is A, B, CJ cast d®Wn.
The Clergy D, C, D. JJcccdc, dead.
The Parliament — 1 a j] e t cj(h ned.
The Kingdom 1), P, C. ■/;</•«£,ionvtopieces
Frenchmca H, B, T. HLetc y flupid.
< ood —O, T. Ote, removed.
R, S, T K'fle, remains,
Evil
Two incendiary i-.'»vlVan<?vs Ik.jc
been for foroe time pi vii*t •: J i'ar'.ientitled, The Friend of the People, and
The Friend of the King. Although, ap
parently in opposition to each other,
they had the fame obje& in view (fays
Gazette de France) to conduA the 11a
tiou to anarchy, and from anarchy to
defpotifui. The aflembly has iflued
a decree of prosecution against Marat
and Royou, the editors and authors,
who are both arittocrates.
" Mr. Bolton of Birmingham, has
applied the It earn engine to coining.;
By his machinery, f6ur boys of ten
years old can (Irike off 30,000 guineas
in an hour. The machine keeps an
ling account of the pieces ft ruck.""
" The Queen of Portugal is better
(M»y 31) tbough mending very flow-
Jy. Her age, which is near three
{'core'; hel - habits, (edentary and dull ;
her temper, sadly fuperltiiious ; all
are again ft her."
" A letter from Coblentr, da-ed
May 5, fays, the two brothers of the
King of France are more active than
ever. The Prince of Conde is now
at the head of 20,000 of his country-
men."
Despotism and foperdition will,
from all appearances, contribute at
lcaft half their property, to work the
downfal ofthe reformation in France.
ROME, April 24
In the vicinity of Frefcaii, have
been lately discovered the remains ot
the ancient city or Gabii, which was
overwhelmed many ages ago by tbe
eruptions of Vesuvius. In the firft
digging many fragments of marble
pillars have been discovered, the ru
ins of temples, and mutilated statues.
This fortunate discovery promises
fair to enrich our cabinets with pre
cious antiquities, the invaluable re
mains of the genius and arts of an
cient Italy.
STRASBOURG, May 8
The declaration of war, by the Aflem
bly, has produced here the mod live
ly emotions of joy.—Our troops are
in high fpivits, and eager to engage
the mercenaries of Austria.. This,
in a great measure, is due to the fkil
ful arrangements, zeal, anil patriot
ifen of Marechal Luckner. This of
ficer poflefles in the highelt degree
the confidence of the army, and if
conduced by him, will do every thing
that men can do. He is one of those'
few men who can derive advantages
even from misfortune. The late dil
aftrous events at M<ms and Tournay,
have determined him to enforce the
niolt rigid discipline, to prevent such
disasters in future,,and ensure success.
The following is the addrefshe made
to his army 011 this fubjevfi, on the
jth instant.
" Marechal Luckner informs the
army and the citizens that have taken
up arms for the maintenance of liber
ty, that the whole amount of the
killed in the repulse from Mons and
Tournay, is about one hundred and
fifty men. The Marechal is fully sen
sible that this failure of success can
not but re-animate the courage of all
true Frenchmen. He well knows
they are worthy to be a free nation,
and as such capable of ftruggiing a
gainst the blasts of adveil'e fortune.
By a steadiness and resolution, cha
rafteriftic of brave men, who are
fighting for their lights, they will
soon learn how tocirryofF the vic
tory from hostile mercenaries.— As to
hinifelf (the General said) his duty
as a good citizen, was to use his au
thority and experience, tp inftrutft
those unde: his command in jhofe ri
gid duties of discipline, by which
alone victory could be purchased to
guide them, to habituate them to the
arduous toils of war, and to teach
them all. that it is only by submitting
the energy that animates them to the
direction of their chiefs, that they
can acquire or preserve the afcendnn
cy that Ihould characterize the sol
diers of liberty.
SALE M, J uly 10.
A superb plan of a CrtPiTOL has
been forwarded to the Coniniiifioners
of the Federal Buildings in the city
of Washington, by an eminent ai rift
in this town ; and which, it is fan
guinely expected by those who have
seen it, will command the premium
of a city loc and joo dollars.
We hear that the ingenious Mr.
ew bury port, has been
laclelphia, to execute
the United States.
or to
The, fir ft military efforts of the
French Revolutionists appear to have 1
fallen infinitely below their civic de
clamations. Their infubordin3tibn,
and hacking their officers to pieces,
will.mot do, will not do, will not
do—whatever they may chant to the
contrary in their famous revolution
song
BOSTON, July 11.
The Manufactures of our country
daily anil rapidly incieafe—our na
tive canvass catches the swelling
breeze in every part of the globe,
wafting the exuberance of the pro
duce of our foil and induflry, to \ari»
ous pons. Agriculture, in all its
branches,improves and flour iflies year
after year—and ics product commands
a good price, arid ready c;i(h. Mo
nev is plenty as the demand for it is
great. The National Debt is decreaf
ing—and our credit in foreign coun
tries, is equal to any, and foperior to
many of the old nations of Europe—
yet certain fourhern ded a liners are
continually earning—" we c.r: going
to dsjlruflion with a sowing fh et"—and
are now on the verge (J ruin !—But this
is only the cant of our modem " fun
Jhim patriots J"
A Monarchic Club is formed in Pa
ris— divided into 68 Committees—lt
has auradled the notice, and will be
vigilantly watched by the National
Aflembly.
The " Crumbier," in lall Thurf
day's Chronicle, who could not eat
his bread in peace on the A lint* Bina
ry of Independence, is inforined,tliat
the Executive Officers of the United
States, to whose department it be
longs, have been inceflant in their
endeavors to negotiate with the hos
tile tribes of Indians—A lid that there
is now a rational profpedt of a (peedy
fetllenient of the dilpuies between
• these Indians and the United Stares.
Bin it is expected thar thel'e carpers
wiil ltill be 011 tbe watch tofindfonie
thing else to grumble about.
N E W-Y O R K, July 14.
Yesterday, the Committee appoint
ed by the friends to Liberty, porfu
jant to public notice, allembled at Bar
din's tavern/and from thence pro
ceeded to the house of the Hon. John
Jay, attended by a numberof reipec't
able ci;izens, v;hen the following ad
dress was prelented : —
To the Hon. JOHN JAY, Esq. Chief
Jufticc of the United States.
SI R,
PERMIT us, in behalf of ourselves
and the very refpe&able body of our
fellow citizens which wc have thi ho
nor to represent, to congratulate you
upon your fate return to thi* city from
the eallerii circuit.
The Friends of Liberty have ever
entertained a lively sense of the im
portant services which you have ren
dered to y«>ur county, in every iitu
ation in which you have been placed.
Whether they examine your conduct
as a member of the general Congress,
at the most trying periods of the late
war, and of the Convention which
framed the constitution ofthis state
or consider your agency in negociat
ing the treaty which secured to Ame
rica the blefiings of peace, liberty,
and fafety, they find a continual dif
play of abilities and virtue which
will hand your name down to remote
poflerity, as Que of the iUujirious de
fenders of the rights of men.
It was this lenfe, Sir, of your pub
lie Cervices, which induced the inde
pendent freeholders of the (fate to
nominate and support you at the last
election as a candidate for the office
of their chief i«agiltrate, and procur
ed you a decided majority of votes.
Thus called to enjoy one of the high
est honors in the power of a grates ul
people to bestow, it was not to be ex
pected that you would have been de
prived of it by the machinations of a
few interefled and defigriing m*n.
In contempt, however of the sa
cred voice of the people—in defiance
of the conflitution—and in violation
of uniform practice and the fettled
principles of law , we have seen a ma
jority of the canvafling committee re
ject the votes of whole counties, for
the purpose of excluding you and
nuking way for a Governor of their
own choice. This wanton an.l daring
artack upon the invaluable right of
suss.age, has excited a serious alarm
amonglt the electors of the state, and
58
united them in meafares to obtaii;
redrefs—ln the pursuit of an object
so interesting, we (ball, like Freemen,
a<fl with moderation and order, but
at the fame time with zeal and per
feverance.—Wliilft we refpe<ft the
laws, we relpetft ourselves and our
rights, and feel the strongest obliga
tion to support and maintain them.
The cause in which we are engaged
being the cause of the people, we
fiul! that it cannot fail of success ;
but in every event, we entreat you to
believe, that you will retain a dillin
guilhed place in our afFe<fti»«s, and
that v.e fliall embrace every opportu
nity to manifeft the unbounded con
fidence which we repose in your ta
lents and patriotism.
By order of the Committet,
NICHOLAS CRUGER,Chairman.
New York, July 13, x 792.
Tf which Mr, Jay made the following
■reply :
Gentlemen,
IT is far more pleasing to receive
proofs of ihe confidence and attach
ment of my native city, than it is ea
sy to express the sense which that con
fidence and that attachment inspire.
When I reflect on the facrifices and
efforts in the cause of liberty, which
diflinguiftied this state during the
late war, my feelings are very sensi
bly affected by the favorable light in
which yon regard my conduct during
that interesting period. That cause
was patronized by him who gave
to men the rights we claimed : He
crowned it with success, and made it
intlrumental to our enjoying a de
gree of national prosperity, unknown
to any ot her people : — May it be per
petual ! Such is our constitution, and
fucli are the means of procuring or
derand good government, with which
we are blefled, that while ourcitizens
remain virtuous, free, and enlighten
ed, few political evils can occur, for
which remedies perfectly effectual,
and yet perfectly confident with ge
nera] tranquility cannot be found and
applied.
I derive great fatisfacftion from .the
hope and expectation that the event
which at present excites fn much a
larm and anxiety, wijl give occafton
only to such measures as patrjotifin
may direift and jultify ; and that the
vigilance and wisdom of the people
will always afford to their rights that
protection, for which other countries,
less informed, have often too preci
pitately recurred to violence and com
motion.
In qneftions touching our constitu
tional privileges, all ihe citizens are
•qually interelled ; and the I'ocial
duties call upon U3 all to unite in dif
cufling these queltions ' with candor
and temper, in deciding them with
circumspection and impartiality, and
in maintaining the equal lights of all
with conllancy and fortitude.
They who do what they haven
right to do, give no jolt cavif'e of of
fence ; and therefore every consider.
ation of propriety forbids that dif
ferences in opinion refpeifting candi
dates, {honld suspend or interrupt thai
mutual humor and benevolence
which harmonizesfociety,and foftens
the asperities incident to human life
and human affairs.
By those free and independent e
lecftors who have given me their fuf
frages, I efteein my ("elf honored ; —
for the virtuous who withheld that
mark of preference, I retain, and
ought to retain, my former refpecfi
and good will —to all 1 wish proiprri
ty, public and private. Permit me,
gentlemen, to aflure you, and'your
constituents, that as 1 value their es
teem, and rt-joice in their approbati
on, (o it will always be my delirc, as
well as my doty, tojuftify as far as
poilible, ihe fcntiments which they
entertain ot me : and which you, Sir,
have exprefled in terms, and in a
manner, which demand, and which
eceive, my warm ell acknowied:*-
JOHN JAY.
meats
NEW BERN, (N.C.) June 30.
Saturday last was brought to town,
from Washington, part of the crew
('even failorsj of the French Brig
Le Bail/i dc Sujfrtin. Caju. Clairet.
These men are charged with the
murder of the Captain and mate of;
that veflel. On Thiufday last they
were examined before the Hon. Judge
Sitgreaves, at the court-house in this
.% -
town. It appears [list ihe l, r • ,
from Savannah the ioth inji
to Bourdeaux, with three hi,,
hofheads of tobacco and fom/",'j c "'
Nothing extraordinary happ cljl ,« t m V
til Sunday evening the ißih, tXCC
that the crew once or twice complain
ed of want of proviiions. About ten
o'clock at night, the mate's watch be
jing °n deck—one of the crew called
I him, telling him that there was j
Dolphin a head ; the mate went for',
ward, and ai he stooped to look, one
of the crew Hi nek him with an'axi.
and knocked him down, another <nve
him two or three (li okes with a knife
and threw him into the sea. Jhev
then called the captain and told him
that the mate had fallen overboard :
He came up, and as he fat his foot oil
deck, \»as knocked down and thrown
over as the mate.
The crew went down and awoke
an old French sailor, the cook, and a
young woman whom the captain had
brought with him from Savannah ;
informed tliein of what had happen
ed, and threatened to kill them if
they would not promile lecrecy on
the aflurance they gave of not reveal
ing the horrid deed.they were sworn,
and ihe murderers went in the cabin
and fat down the reft of the night,
eating and drinking. The next day
they divided the captain's and mate's
clothes and motley, and brought up
on deck a watch and iilver buckles
which were fold at vendue On
Thnrfday the 2:d they discovered the
land, got into the boacs, and endea
vored to scuttle the veil'el, this they
could not effetft for want of tools s
they made the woman drink a mix
ture of rum, sugar and turpentine,
which intoxicated her so that (he fell
a (leep , in the mean while, feeing a.
(ehooner coming towards them, they
rowed a shore, leaving the veflel with
all her fails hoi (led, and towards
night arrived at I'ortfmonth.-—On
the next day they left the boar, and
made their way to VVafliington. The
old French Tailor and the cook, re
fufed to go with them, and afrer they
were gone gave information againd
them. They werepurfued and bro't
to Wafhingron, where they were ex
amined by John G. Blount and Wil
liam Farris, Efq'rs, who committed
them, and the next day sent them to
this town under a flrong guard.
BALTIMORE, July 14.
A correfpoiirfent observes (on the
paragraph copied from the National
Gazettt, in our paper of Thursday lalt)
that it is generally, if not always, a
proof of partiality or design, when a
pubii/her or conductor of a :':ewfpa
per is uniform inexpofingto liisread
ers but one ltde of a queftion—Kor
example, it is not fair to stigmatize
the law of Cottgrefs refp'fting nrjjffa
\pers with having for its object the pre
vention of dominating the proceedings
of Cortgreft, and to hold up a majority
of the members of Congress as ene
mies to the liberties of the People. In
the firft place, the law ailuded to
obliges the poft-office to convey all
exchange papers, to and from print
ers, within the United States, jres of
pofiage—thereby enabling the print
ers in the several States to give due
anil regular information to the peo
ple of the proceedings of Ctngreji —
So far therefore from Hopping infor
mation at the feat of government, it
iias rendered its transmission to the
several States more certain than here
tofore —Secondly, the law does not
prevent, but anthorifei the printer!
in the several States to fend their pa
pers to their cullomers in any man
ner they might find most convenient.
!t dees not compel them to employ
the mail stages ; and allows them to
nfe any other. In tins refpeift, there
fore, it cannot be (aid to abridge, in
the smallest degree, the diffpminat.oit
of newfpa-pers or cangre^ttH"!proceeu
in*i.—Thirdly, if the iWt be ss ti.e
paragraph, froui. thfe Nafioiia. 1
(tares, viz. That the riteSif f P°" a S e
will lell'en the sale in the several States
of papeis printed at . ; .. j del;>•'' a , 1
follows thence, tint a- the P a P er _
printed in each Srate will come i
\er to the people thereof than 1 ,iuf a P
papers, the former will be r = ne
•to the latter. And as thetec.u e -
doubt but that the State pTin , -' s W l
insert in their paj e:s ail «•• "
proceedings, the peo; '' ;• ,ei .'' »
their State papers, W. ■ , 5natiw, though the Philadelphia print
ers may lome profit. But the facH: is,
that the regulation in (jueltion is cal- (
calated to ensure the circulation of
newl'papers by annexing to them the
faille facrednefs and protection as to
letters, while the pottage is perhaps
less than they would be carried for
by a contract made by each printer,
taking into the account certainty and
regularity of delivery, which every
subscriber will naturally coHfider of
some importance. Whoever, there
lore will view the fubjeifl in this can
did light, will be cautious how he ad
mits malignant insinuations printed
at the feat of government", wliofe Fen
if not il>je.(l, evidently is to in-
Ipire the citizens with a dijlikt to the
'jonftitutiott, by inspiring them with a
.itdike to the Laws, and an abhorrence oj
.their Framers. At the fame time eve
ry unbiased reader will expsd. from
the printers of such paragraphs a car
j-efponding infertionof those of a con
trary nature, in which the Govern
ment is vindicated, that so their read
ers nay at lealt have an opportunity
of hearing both flies.
Philadelphia, July 21.
The Judges of the Supreme Court of Pennsyl
vania have appointed the following times and
places for holding the courts of Nisi Prius the
ensuing fall : —
At Norris Town in Montgomery county, 24th
September.
New Town in Bucks county,
Chester, in Delaware county,
Weft Chefterin Chester county,
Lancaster in Lancaster county,
Wc learn from North Carolina, that a fire
broke out in the town of WaOiington, on Wed
nesday the 27th ult. which bnrnt nearly half
the town —the loss in houles, good , &c, is said
to be very considerable.
Agreeable to the returns .made into the office
of the Secretary of MafTachufetts the members
for, and against a reparation of the ot
Maine from Maffacbufetts are as follow —for
the reparation 2074 —against it 2524.
A man by the name of Jolhua Abbot, jun'r.
was tried for murder at Old York, diftrift of
Maine, the week before last, and brought in
guilty by the jury—the deceased was named
Moses Gubtail.
The late falfe newi of the taking of Seringa-1
patam was a complete take in.—it was received
with foft and blind credulity by the Britifti mi
nisters as well as by the court of directors
Letters from the Secretary to the India House,
and from the firftcleik to the Secretary, ol State,
were sent to the Maniion House, and to Lloyds,
with an account u that Lieut. Abercrombie was
arrived with particulars of the taking of Serin
gapatam."
The anniversary of the French revolution
was celebrated in various parts of the United
States.
Among other patriotic toasts given at Car
lisle on the celebration of Ainericau indepen
dence, was the following,viz.—National Credit
—the Palladium of National Greatness.
The Pittiburg Gazette by yeflerday's post
contains no account of any recent depredations
or movemsnts of the Indians.
Capt. Cooke's company of riflemen has arri
ved at Cariille from Northumberland.
The Boston Tontine is diflblved—and the 1
fund appropriated to the Union Bank, anew
institution incorporated by the legislature of
MafTachufetts at the late session.
The legislature of Maffacbufetts have ap
pointed a committee to prepare or procure
plans of a building or buildings, with suitable
accommodations for the meetings of the su
preme executive and legislature, and for the
offices of the secretary and' treasurer of the
Commonwealth.
Two persons were executed at Winchester,
{Vir.) the 6thin{l.\VilliamJohnfon for horse steal
ing, and John Crane, jun, for the murder of
Abraham Van home.
Tn the Qnebec Herald, a poem is advertised
"for fubfeription, entitled, " The Yanky Par
son, or Ale House-Congress, in three cantos,
written in the Hudibraftic stile, by a gentleman
during his tour through the United States.
On Sunday last a child fall out of the arms of
a woman from & tiiird Story in Vine-Street,
and was killed.
The " Examination of Lord Sheffield's Obfer-
Vations on the Commerce of the United State*,"
is re-printed jn London ; also, Dr. Ruth's ac
count of the sugar-maple-tree.
The brig Charleston, Capt. Garman. from
this port, is arrived at Charleston. On the sth
inft. in the evening, there arose a heavy squall,
attended with rain, and severe lightning and
thunder —during which the foremaft of the brig
was struck by the lightning, and vcVy nitich
shivered—palling from i*- killed a horse
on deck, belonging to the Hon. \V. Smith, and
splintered the rnainmaft, melting a brass plate
round it —thence descending into the cabin,
swept in a man who was fitting under the com
panion and knocked down Mr. W. P. Young,
who lay a considerable time deprived of his
senses, and was very much scorched and
otherwise hurt. The mate and leveral hands
who were on deck, were all knocked down and
remained lifelefs for foine time. The fliock
was so great that the brig was stopped in her
way, and every person on board thrown into
the greatest consternation. '
The annvverPary of Indepeneence wai cele-
Drated with uncommon joy and, fbfiivity in
Charleston. The military exhibition, colliding
of a reginent of militia, battalion of artillery—
tlie cadets, fufiliers and forefte'rs in uniform,
was truly relpeftable ; their appearance and
deportment received the warnieft approbation
of a number of diftinguilhed veteran officers.—
Preparations were making in that city to com
memorate the Fjrench Revolution, when Capt.
Wetfh failed.
Friday the 13th inft. arrived at NeW Brunf
wick.fr om. Albany, a detadffnuent of troops, a
bout 9 > infantry, under the command of Capt
; Guioff/ and .55 of Capt. Rodders' Horle, on their
way to Fort-Pitt—a number more are daiiy
exbedled from the east ward. It. is said the re
cruitine; goes, on very brif«dy in lome
.part V a considerable propoition of the troops
i are already railed.
A ConfiderabicadiVrtional number of laborers
will "be wanted, at the city of and
the Little Fall-, of Potowmack : It is expected
the foundations: of the Capitol and President's
Palace will be entered on by the firft day of
next month, and prolecuted with great a&ivity.
The Cut at the Little Falls is nearly dugout,
and every effort will be made to get it walled,
and the river improved to the Great Falls this;
season ; so that by fiiifting the loads at the
Great and Little Falls, there will by next spring
be no occasion fpr waggoning the produce down
Potowmack.
In theprbclamation of the King of the French,
concerning the execution of the laws relath e to
juries, he (peaks with great refpeel of the late
constituent aflemblv, and congratulates hipfslf
! upon feeing under his reign a legiilation mild,
I humane, and appropriated to a free conftitu
tlon, substituted fer an dppreffive system, more
uited to alarm the innocent, than to deter the
guilty.
The 17th iiiftant an address frpm a number
of the citizens of New-York, was prefentcd to
Governor Clinton, which,with the answer fliall
appear in our next. Alter the addtefs, his Ex
cellency dined at a'public entertainment, at
| which above ! 23 of his friends were present.
I ft. Oft.
10tli. Oft.
15th. Oct.
22d. Oft.
A writer in the New-York Gazette, on re
storing suspended animation, fays, that the im
mediate causes of death in a drowned person,
are the want of vital air, with loss qf tone in
[tiie moving fibres of the heart it.'elf.
This being admitted, the great object will
be to renew the aftiort of the heart and arteries,
by obviating tiie cautes which have interrupted
their action ; this is to be effected by three in
tentions :
ift. By restoring the heat and refpiiacion ;
this is to be accQinplilhcd, ift- By wiping die
body as dry as pofiible, and then by applying a
gradual uniform degree of heat, either by plac
ing it before a fire, simmering it in a warm
bathe, exposing it to the fun, by the warmth of
another person's body, or by covering it with
warm grains, warm allies, warm sand or fait,
or lastly by rubbing it with warm clothes. 2d.
By repeatedly inflating the lungs, imitating the
alternate motions of natural respiration ; ti i
can be done either by inserting a tube ip the
windpipe, or as recommended by Dr. Monro, by
inserting it into one of the nostrils.
2d. By more immediately reflcring the aftioi.
ofthe moving fibre-.,the means for anfweringtms
intention are, frifliovSy injections of tobaccoJmoke,
vomiting* warm stimulating drinks, &rc.
1 And 3d. By leflening the quanty of blood,
thereby promoting its circulation ; this is only
| to be effected by blood letting, in the use of this
' remedy however some caution is necelfary, left
Iwe take more blocd than is fnfficient to fulfil
I this intention.
These directions have been found repeatedly
fuccefsful.
Mr. Smith late Sheriff of Otfego County, New-York,
concludes an address to the public in the,following
terms.
I cannot help giving it as my opinion that it
was but a (hallow pretence for so horrid a vio
lation of public right, and that the evidence
produced was by far too (lender, on which to
have determined a matter of much less impor
tance. I despise the person who made the affi
davit, they mention, with a view to infmuate a
fraud on my part —and I despise the man, who,
under pretence of believing it, condemned my
conduftr without a hearing, or even informing
me that I was fufpe&ed.—l know that I have
a conscience, and that I fultain a charafrer
which will support me under all the calumnies
of party —ind, I possess a firmnefs and fidelity,
to my trust, which all the bribes and all the of
fices in the power of a monarch to bestow (hall
never make me relinquifli for a moment—l fec-1
the infrilt offered me by the committee—l des
pise the drunken fool who made the
and however dignified his station in the county,
may be, I am not afraid to contrast my reputa
tion with his. lam seldom seen llaggering a
bollft—neither am I in poflefllon of those talents
for chringing and servile flattery, by which he
is so eminently diftinguiflied—-which mark hfm
as the qualified tool of party, and fit him for
any dirty, work his masters.may choose to set
him at.
RICHARD R. SMITH,,
late Sheriff of Otfego.
4, 1794.
Extrafrom the National Gazette.
" Ought the people, in any part of the TJnl-i
on t6 be diverted, like the whale by a barrel,
from enquiring into the cargo of their own Ihip,
and the conduct of the crew they have them
selves put on board ? Or is the enquirer to be
p#rpetually vilified as plotting u to the
harmony, peace and happiness of the United
States ;* f as averted in a paper of last week, —
which also takes occalion to make an obferva
tiou (in its application utterly falfe) that " eve
ry man in the United States fits quietly under,
his own figtrce, and has none to make him a
fraid."
Mr. Fenno, thegrumbler* qugfct to have bee
excepted.
59-
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
THE Government of the United States has
been compared to a fhij - —we like the fiiriHc ;
the lhip is thank heaven now under an easy lail,
with a chosen complement of officers and men;
the crew contented and happy—every man un
derstands his duty, and leduloufly performs it—
the prol'pect is flattering—and though the voyage
is long, the concerned have every reason to
hope for the most prosperous issue to the adven
i ture.
There are some fellows who wMhed to enter,
but all the births being taken up, they were not
received—and it appears fortunate —for there
is great reason to suppose they would have railed
a mutiny on board—they turn out to be a que
rulous unealy gang—and are fabricating and
Circulating the most infamous reports reflecting
the voyage the officers and men—it will not
fault if the enterprize does not finally
•msfvarry—and £he fliip founder, or be run on ti c
rocks or quick lands, and there be stove to pie
ces.—These fellows have a few emissaries or.
various parts of the coast, who hang out falfe
lights and make other falfe signals—but the con
cerned repoie the fulleft confidence in the wis
dom and honor of the commander, officers and
crew ; they know them to be old sailors, that
they have been tried and proved in tempestu
ous seasons, and have never failed bringing the
{hip into a iafe port, and are firmly persuaded
that the present voyage will be the molt prof
j perous ever undertaken.
" AHoufe divided against itfelf cannot stand.
This is a quotation !Vom a certain book, which
contains doctrines highly important to the in
terest:. of society and of men. There was a
time whi nits full import was felt by the good
people of this cour.tr* —and tfcey snow realize
the bleflcd efeas. To perfect and perpetuate
the Union of this confederated republic, the
genius of Columbia brought us from the foun
tain of wisdom, the preient constitution of the
United States, that new bond of amity and
(trcngth—this cemented our councils, gave us
laws & fecuritv—treated a firm basis for our ere
ciit—gave wings to our commerce—hope to our
nianuiaftures, and nerved the arm of' agriail-
tare. It opened the strong boM of the miser ;
biafted a baseless paper medium—built a strong
tower of public and private confidence, and
what is more than all—defined government,
and laid in the principles of equal representa
tion, so broad a foundation for civil liberty,
that the people of the United States can never
be enflavecl, except they enilave themselves ;
and this they never xviil do till by the arts of
unprincipled men, they Ihallbe induced to think
contemptibly of their union and government.
There is no leafon to think that a change of
mcafures, without a change of wen jn refpeff to
the government of the United States, would fa
tlsfy the present set of grumblers ; habituated
to a complaining, fault-finding temper, there is
no other way of silencing tliefe croakers, but
by giving them, as the.song, fays, " something
clfe to do."
It is Taid in Tome of the northern paper* that
the complaints against the measures of govern
ment proceed principally from adilaffefted jun
to at the southward ; this idea cannot be sup
posed tl} extend further fcutli than the feat of
government —for excepting now and then a
stray paragraph, produced probably in the only
hotbed of antifederal politics in the Union, there
is scarcely a. single idea of difaffeftion to the
measures of goverrmentto be found in a months'
publication of all the newspapers printed at the
southward of Philadelphia—and there one paper
only, enjoys the singular honor of depreciating
the government, by publication?, which if
founded in the least semblance of truth would
justly render it more deteliable th;,n the old
despotism of France.
The present situation aud circumflances of
the United States, contrasted with what they
were in 1787, is a point blank refutation of
the flanders of that antifederal junto, which
labored so incessantly, but ineffectually to pro
crastinate the happinel's of this country by pre
venting the adoption of the new Constitution.
"tfhis juilto, reduced to a very small number,
haa left-its influence, but has not loft its ve
nomous di"position—it has loft its prudence f.iid
consistency, if it ever poflefled either, but has
not loft its propcnfity to mvfehief.
The Constitution of the United States is re
publican—it is founded on the people, the only
legitimate source of power—the friends of this
Conftitntion are principled in republicanism— j
they imbibed republican sentiments with their I
mother's 'milk—they were nurtured and educa
ted in the dodtrines.of equal rights and equal'
liberty—and yet so confident is the junto, that
they accuse those men who have fought to efta
nlifh the freedom of this country (for these are
the men who Compose the administration of the
government) as calumniators of republicanism;
as agents to a factiou (sometimes it is a f.ifiion
itfelf) who are " paving the way to hereditary
monarchy on the fly destruction of popular go
vernment." It it hardly pofiible to conceive
that the' authors of J'uch paragraphs can be so
Weak as to behei'C what they write.
• ,A coi'refpondent observes, that the enemies j
'of ouv peace are not only mortified at the fuc
cefsful operation of the measures of government
but they appear to be ve?:ed and chagrined that
the people arc contented—and more so that
they ibou'd acknowledge that ttyeir iituation is
prosperous and happy.
It is really difficult to determine with what
propriety the terrrt faClion is applied to the friends
of chose measures of government which have
retrieved the affairs of this country from that
wretched situation into which they were plunged
previous to the adoption of the constitution—
nnd yet these real confident and competent
fr-ends ef the people are net only denonuntted
a ai. u»t Imt aTe xv'.tu great
called "proud ar.d vain worfiiippers ot' arilto
crr.cy and monarchy"—Surely " tj:e grate of
impudence is a growing grace." But the peo
ple oftiiC United Sates are fully apprized of the
, ;. a ,„ trs and views of those perlons who are
•adepts in nothing but finding fault.—Their ob
ject is too apparent to be miflaken ; for, said
d gambler, " I must complain thatthe cards are
badly fla.fficd, till I have .a good hand."
Died suddenly, on Saturday laj>, at Salem,
New-Jcrley, Kenjamin Hoi. me, Esq.—his le-
mains were next day interred in the Bap tilt
burying ground, where a ferinon Aritable to tlie
fblemnoccafkm was delivered by the Rev. Mr.
Skillman, lYoin Row. vh 23. The large and
refpeenable conoaur'e ot* people who attended
the funeral, bespoke the great eftecm in which
the deceased was held, by bis death the com
munity at large, lirs neighborhood in particular,
and the Baptist Church, of which he was a ge
generous and ornamental member, iuftain a \e
-1 ry ienfible loss.
* # * A number of (itizens having met at the Siate-
JJoiife on Thurfuay evening laji, putJuavt to notice inl
the Neu'fpapers, Jor the purprje oj cvnfiderlng on the
proper means of Jcrmwg a tichetjor Repi ejentatives in
Congress, and blefiors oj the Prep dentand Ine-Prejt
dent oj the United States, it was, on motion, agreed
to adjourn till Wedtiefday next, at 7 o'clock in the even
ing, at the State-Houje, token the citizens in general
[ are rcqufjied to attend. *
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT 0/ PHILADELPHIA*
Schooner Friendfiip, Wel/k, Chart ej} on
'1 he Brig Rachael, Captain Gutter, is arrived at
Nezvca/lle /cm Nciory with 240 pajjengers all well.
We hear ike flip Canton, Capt. M i Get is arrived it
the fiver Jicmthe fame port with upwards 0/700 paj-
\jengcrs.
PRICE OF STOCKS,
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Full ftiares Bank U, S. ' 35
Shares in Bank N. A. 27
Shares in Sufque. & Schuylkill Canal, ioo doll,
Delaware & Schuylkill do. 19 do.
Lancaller and Philadcl. Turnpike, 65 do.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookltller, at the Stone-House, in Second-Strccf,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VI of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
Or a Didionary of Arts, Sciences,
and MifcelJaneons Liieraiure,
On a plan entirely new : By which the different
fcienccs and arts arc dig< fled into the rprm
Of dijlintt Treaties or Syfiems.
This sixth volume contains, among u variety of
intercflmi; article?,
Dioptrics,diftillatiori,diving bell,art of dra wing,
i Dublin ar{ of Dying, thfoiy ihc-ca-ri'vand earth.
i quakes, Edinburgh, education,thifiory of Egypt,
Sylt mot ehflricity, hsftory of England, engrav
ing, c Faying, history of Ethiopia, &c. See, See.
i 'lujlrated with twenty-two copper plates,
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fupeifine paper, and
n< w types (call for the purpose in Philadelphia)
which wiil be occasionally renewed before they
contratt a worn appearance.
11. "i he work may be had in volumes ox half-volumes',
it biing proposed to deliver the volumes in
parts, at twenty Ihillingi(Pennfylvania currency)
each, in boards, or tor the whole volume, five
dollars, in boards. The volumes now finifhed
ai«- to be paid for 011 delivery,and the price oionc
volume is to be paid in advance, 2nd the price
of each fuccteding volume to be paid on de-
livering the volume preceding it.
111. In the courfeof publication will be exhibit
ed above five hundred copper plates, elegantly
engraved in Philadelphia ; which by far exceed
in number those given in any other fcientilic
diflioflai y. At the close of the publication will
tc delivered, an elegant frontifpicce, the dedi
cation, preface, and proper title pages for the
different volumes.
%* As the very great expcnce attending the
undertaking, makes pu.n&ualit) of payment in
difpenlably liecefTary, the publisher fldtters him
felf that the fubferibers will be pcrfe&ly fatisfied
with his adhering ftriftly to His original plan of
delivering the books only on receiving payment,
agreeable to the conditions of publication.
SubfcripUons Jor the E?icyclopedia,
Will continue to be received oh lije fame terms as
ufua!, till the fir ft of September, 1792, when the
pricc will be encreafed. Ten Dollars to be
paid on -fubfetiption, by those who have not fub
icribed before that time.
Those who have fubferibed, but not taken iheir
books before that time, will be confidercd as not
having fubferibed,
As the lubfrriptvon wiil probably be clofcd by
Chnftmasj such as chufe to be polTeflfors ot' ibis
very valuable and important work, will do well
lo come forward in lime, thai they' may'not be
difappuinted. July cplT
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY.
Thomas james, wax chandler,
from London, refpe&ftilly inform* the public
that bviias clUblifbed ?, Manufactory of the above
branch, at the upper end of Ivlulberry-Strcct,NeW-
Yoik, where Merchants, Captains of Vessels,
DruggiHs, and Families, may be supplied with
excellent and pure White Wax Candles, White
Wax in Cakes, Tapers, Wax'd Lamp Wicks,
; Flambeaux, &c v warranted equal to any made in
1 London, and twenty percent, cheaper.
Orders in this and the adjacent Slates, received
bv Mr. John Goodeve, Bridge-Street, Mr.
Will 14*1 Frobish&r, Fletcher-Strect, and at
the Manufactory, whereJamples may ie seen.
N. B. Bees-Wax taken in payment* o{ bleached
on moderate terms.
Ncw-Ycik., July ig, 1792
Ti'a-
2 1/3
•1 2/4.
per prem*
ditto.
[epjw]EXTRACT PROM THE ZENITH OF GLORY
A MANUSCRIPT ODE.
Sir Peter Parker's and General Clinton's Attack on
Port Sullivan, 1776.
Q IR Peter, loosed the bellying fail;
His squadron caught the riling gale,
And swept the wat'ry plain ;
With them, in priile of warlike force,
Erave Clinton ihap'd an equal course,
For Charle/lon * rich domain.
Forth from the camp with rapid haste,
Athwart a funbuint, sultry waste,
Zee's chosen columns sped :
Nor fwiftcr posts the rufbjng Heed
When urg'd along with doubling speed,
Earth scarcely feels him tread.
Now past the Ihelving sand forin'd bar,
At once begamtfee storm of war
Wild pouring on in flame.
Here Paikcr's the tar infpirM,
'■There Moultrie's voice his soldiers tir'd,
And Jafpcr purchased fame.
On purpled billows (laughter rode.
From deck to deck fell carnage strode.
Death fought the bold—the brave.
fJeav'n, earth and sea were veii'd in fmolce,
ShaUs, mortars, cannon, raging broke,
Borne upward from the wave.
In vain the toil—firm, unsubdued,
The itrong Palme toe tow'ring flood,
From dawn, till darkling night
When the whifft ensign's given sign,
Recalled the fhatter'd, finking line,
Arid clos'd the horrid fight.
Ebenezer Hazard,
STOCK-BROKER,
HAS Removed his OFFICE lo No. ; 2 8 north
Second.Street, wheie he continues to purcbafe
and fell on Commiflion, CeitiHratu r>l debt of the
United, and Individual States, D.nk Stock, Canal,
i.nd Turnpike Shares, &e. <Sce.
C3"Siibftiibersioihe Univ»rfal Tontine who
have not vet reee.ved their Certificate, arc delirrd
10 call for them,
July iB.
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
TJ C L Y 6, 1 7Q2.
HE Subferiber rffcrs for Sale, a Mill-Seat on
Hock Creek, d.emed bv iliofe who have ex
mined it, equal to any in the United States. The
Mi!l-Houfe may be placed within one quarter of
a mile of the river Patowmac, half a mile from
tl.c tnaiket house in Georgetown, and one mile
from the Prefident'a fquaie, in the city ot Wafli
ingioii_on tidewater, navigable for vessels of fj
vera! hundred bushels burthen. —The dream is
lumci(:nt,thc year round,to turn four pair ol Hones,
an., the (all may be made from 55 to 30 feet. It
is ut.ucccffary to d well on the advantages of'fuel 1
a muauou.
The purthafer may be accommodated with a
few hundred aero of land adjoining the Mill-Scat,
if that ftiould be au obje6t,
( e P3™ Mj"U
TERRITORY Or COLUMBIA
PURSUANT .0 the last Wi& TeVmfnt" of
£ the late Rev. Al exandkr WiLli amson,
dvCeafcd, will be exposed to Public Sale on 'I hurl- 1
day, the nth of October nexi,at Grokgetown ;
acred a of three years, (he purer,afers g.vi.ij
j w '''' "PproTed fecii'ity.i'obear inteiell from
the date—That valuable Scat of Land, in Monrgo
lnciy county, called Haves; the late dwelling
p.auutionol the dceeafed, containing bctw-en fix
anu (even hundred acre's, the greatest part of wh eh
"rich, heavy timbered land, extremity well wa _
.end, ana capable of affording a \erv confiderahlc
<|U V itltyr.l hne meadow Siluated aboul G miles
Irom .he Inderal City, a „d , he f ame dift.nce f„ )m
sCorge-1 own, iu a genteel neighbourhood, and a
itmaikao.ehealiliy pan of the counuy.
1 tie improvement., a , O , a very elegant two ft<„,
B.ick Dwelling House. (with four rooms
r."age ,or entry, on a floor) „,d the i.eceffary out-
Jiouf.s. HENRY TOWN-SEND )
1 n , S!™ DD ™T, i Executois.
(I'O) IHO .MAS JOHNS, )
the universal hymn book
Now iriUePrefc, and will be readv for Sale in
"V 1 HOMAS DOBSON, and
A <; Uo |- kr ' ilcrs Philadelohia,
HYMNS, and SPl
th,,r^Tir,V ,ikt " 1,0,n dlffe rci.t Au
th. ~ 1,... theUfe ol thole v.1, c l, tve ln tht .
K.ftnranono! a , Men. Puhlifhed by Oid.ro<
dc^rM n : , :" h ;;'; 1 . ,n = m Fa,ik >»>
V As ihis ,s an UniveiU. Kymn Book the
U,eab I P "" : r ,i ,nd " U ' lt "' P"". infer, «
7W?T, lt t n ' C '"' will bc acknowledged. °
————1—— ep'f.
24 Dollars Reward.
R U WOMAV | he f' h M -- h » NEGRO
, V\ OMAN, by the name ot CHLOh! She
ishvc leet two and a Lair inches )u s h ; quick
spoken ; upper tooih open ; noey«.bro*s at ail •
is about 30 years old, but looks much younger.'
She ~ well (locked w,th, rloaihi, long gown,, jack
in f ' S J ',' OW Pa ' Tln »' {or a frtc » "m»n, I
undeiftand, and has changed lie, name—Whoever
lakes he, up, Co that the owne, get, her, (hall re .
reive the above reward; and if brought home, ,11
orher icalonablc expcnces, from the fuhlcriber
, JOHN' TUZEY
■VBcrJa Cour.lv, near Printfs- Ar.n
Mjr*lan(t t Junt ad. 1752 '
From tJieir firft M eting in September 1774, ti
their final Diliolution hi March 1789,—
COMPRISING, at full length, cvciy iinpor
(ant rclolution, order, addrels, decldtatJon,
&c. contained in the thirteen volumes of their
journals—a concifc iumtnai y ofthe kfs imcreJtilig
oarts—an alphabetical lift of appointments, pro
motions, and refi-inatioiu—a colleit<ve view ot the
public expendiiuies, &c. &c.—the whole intended
ro serve as a facishri&ory substitute for the origin*'
journals, which arc now out of p/ini+ and of which]
the entire Jubltauce, with official
lormaliues »«d repetitions, will here be given m
about one lourth of their prefect bulk—accompa
nied witii cne complete Indtx ;— —
Ffom the records and files of Co'oprcfs,—
Containing (either veioaliin, or in abilra&f a*
the cases may lever uliy require) luch lnterciting
pieces rcfer/td to in the journals, as mav with pro
priety be per milted to be made public, viz. Lettei*
from the difierent officers employed in iqe pubiu
fcrvicc during the late war—mi dree pled letters ot
the enemy—connnunicauons from governors, state
legjflatures, conventions, and committees—dil
patches irom age uu.,and commiflionera—in ft. ruc
tions - reports ot committers of Congreis—and va
rious other authentic documents, tending to throw
a light on the important events, to w Inch America
otfes her present independence.
In the coutfie of I lie work, will be introduced
As soon as 300 copies are lubfcnbed for, the
woi k wiil be put u> pre la—to be delivered to lub*
Mass. Mag.
licribers in numbers ot 304 o6lavo pages each, at
one Dot lar, in blue boards. The fuhjcription
money uii'l not be required tor the fit it number, un
til the publication is begun ; and on the delivery
of each number, half a dollar will beexpe&ed in
advance lor the succeeding one* To non-fubJct 1-
bets, the piict wiil be railed.
Mubfciipiions will be received by the principal
book-k!lei» throughout the Union, and by the
Etiuo r, JOHN CARKY.
No. 26, Pear-Str cut, Piniuuclplnu. (tf)
SECURITIES.
SOLDIERS, Marinei*s; and militia men'* pay,
lands. i»nd claims on the public,
Sri ARLw,in the Ranks, in the Cauals,3nd Turn
pike Road,
CEi\l IHCATES, granted by the public, and
the old ano late paper monies,
(ep.tf )
NOTES ot hand, bills, bonds, and mortgages
with or without depoliis,
SOUGHT, fold, or negotiated, at No. 2, in
I ourth-ibiett btlow *vluiket-lUeet, by
Who tranfa&s bufinels in the public office J for
country people and others, by virtue ot <x power,
of attorney, or bv pcrfonal application
PHI L ADELPIIf A
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY fro-n the lubfcriber in Februai)
last, a NEGRO LAD, named PHIL, about
20 years of age; had on when he went away, a
round jacket, a paii homespun breeches, and a tow
shirt ; (he fellow h.is a ycliowifh complexion, his
heighih about five feet fix of (even inches, very
Iquare mads; ha? a mavk along fide of his no(e,
ana one of ins iufleps has been burnt, which caules
the nncws to draw.
B. STODDERT.
Whoever takes up said Negro, and fecurcs him
in any jail, lo that I may get him again, fball re
ceive the above reward, and have all lealo.iable
cliaigcs paid. ROBERT PEARCE.
lUU SjJ/afras, June 16, 179 a. (*epim)
Stock Brokers Office,
Nu.45, Great Dock-(i,ect, New-Yokk,
1 Hi'- huulciiDcr intending to conhne hunfcl!
A entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE or
SiUCKSo* COMMISSION', liegs leas e 10 otte,
11s lcrui.es to hisliiends and olhcis, in the line
ol a Stock Brokct. Thole who may oleafc to ta
vo, l,u„ wilh iheir bulmef,., mav ctnicnd upon
having U tranfatlcd v. itli ihe utmoil fidelity ami
tiilDdlch.
Older* from Philadelphia, Bolfon, or any other
pait 'J 1 toe Ul.lttd States will be llrirtly altend
cd to.
M.r, 4.
1-? ' AWAY lro,n the lubicribet, living ~u
iV K, ' m <-»«nty, and State ot Maiyiaud, on
Sunday the 2?th May last, a NEGRO i\l A N.
named Hark ; about 4 o years oi age, about fiw
leet nute inches high, has a Irar ove, one of his
eye-blows, and when talking, hangs his head
one fide and look. up-had ..a and took will,
htm the tollowingcloath.s, viz. a tea,nought coat,
a black and white kerley coat, cut round, a white
' J ackct an<l bieechcs, two pair ot yarn llock
mgs, 1 "e one pa,v lately looted, and the other not
two oznanurgn Hints, each pieced on one fde'
two pa„ ol tow-l,neu trowleis, oh« ual, patched
lore .2j
Whoevrr t»k«»p laid Nrg.o, if oulnf|hi ,
Tl ' 'i in m S aol > th *" "cpive I'OUR
.. s M '"""l-and if taken with.e
t CHt'ikh. I»,- d " n»"rc«iv«
• GHI iK)LL ARS ,ewaid ; ami il brouclu
home, realonable expenees will bepaid by
n,n., - r ''tRtGRINK LETHRBI'RY.
" ' ow "> J u " e 4. 179'- (<. 8w )
WANTED— TO RENT,
M A common lloufi, in or ntar the <c„tu q<
"•< (-".V.—Enfmrc ofthi tuilor. J
(*uw4»-»
Tt la fuSHJhtd iy Sirljcriptieir,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OK, PROC££DIIsGS OF THt
O/ 1
yiit won&refo.
. J J
To which wi/i be a ided,
A copious i.nd valuable coJictiiun of originfl
cJ la tz 'j. ijier 4,
in their proper places, such parts of the
O caret J oumcil-j
c>
as 110 longei require secrecy.
FRANCIS W H I T E,
LEOXARD BLEECKER.
(i.1.)
60
THE Partncjftiip of HAZARD & ADDOMS,|
isdiffolved; —All peilons having demands
on that FIRM, aiedefired to call for fettlenient,
upon EHENEZER HAZARD, at No. 128, North
Second-S^icet—and those indebted to 11 aie ic
queilcd to make immediate payment to him.
EBENEZER HAZARD,
JONAS ADDOMS.
Philadelphia, July 10, 1792. (tf)
AND IO BE SOLD (PRICE 10f.)
By EBENEZER HAZARD,
128 North Second-Sticeij
THE
HISTORY
New-Hamplhjre,
Containing a geographical dcfcription of thc :
Slate—with iketchcs of us natural hiitory, pro-,
du6hons> improvements, and present iiate of fo-',
ciety and maimers, laws ayd government. 1
By Jeremy Belknap, A. M.
This volume compleais the hrftory, and is
peculiarly interesting. Subscribers arc dctired
to call for their books.
Jones & Burroughs,,
STOCK-BROKERS,
Statl-Street, BOSTON,
BUY and feil every kind ol the Stocks of the
United States, 011 Commifiioii, by Private
Contract, olid Public Au£tion.— Those gerhlemtn
who may be plea fed to tavor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dii
patch.
Boflon, March, 1792,
BANK of the UNITED STATES,
July 2d, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, That there will be
paid at the Bank, alter the 10th inltant, to
the Stockholders, or their reprelentaiives duly au
thorized, the following sums, being the dividend
declared from the commencement of the lnftttu- 1
tion to the firtt instant, viz.
For each fiiare eoinpicated in the month of
M*rch t Twelve Dollars.
For each lhare compleated in the month of April
Ten Dollars, Sixty seven Lents.
For each lhare compleated in the month of May,
Nine Dollars, Thirty-three Cents.
For each halt-lhare. Eight Dollars.
By .order ot the PrcTident and Direflors,
(2 w f ) JOHN KEAN, jCafoier.
Wm. CLE LAND,
B 0 ST 0 N,
Tranfa&s bufmefs in the Funds of the United
States;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, uc.
Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality.
7 UKf 1 ■ (epim & tawzm) !
GENERAL POST-OFEICE,
Philauslphia, July 7, 1792.
FOR the information ot Merchants and the .viaf
leis 01 Commanders of'vtffeli, are publithed
the following extracts ftoni the Law for cftahlilh
ing Polt-Ofhces and Poll-Roads within the United
States.
(i aw 6 w.
In feflion 10, it is cna&cd that there (hall be
charged " for every letter or packet brought into
the United States, or cariied from one port [here
in to another by sea, in any private fh 1 p or vcffel,
four cenis, it delivered »i the place where the lame;
(hall arrive ; and it directed to be delivered at any I
other place, with the addition ot the like pollage,|
as other letters are made fubieft to the payment,
of by this act."
In fctiion 12, " That no (hiporveflel, arriving
at any port within the United States, where a poll?
office is eltablifhed, lhall be permitjed to report,
moke entry or break bulk, till the matter or com
mander lhall have delivered to the poitmaltcr, all
letters directed to any perlon or peiions within
the United States, which, under hiscaie or within
his power, (hall be brought in such (hip or vcflel
u.hci than such as are directed to tbe owiu, vr
coniignee: but when a vcflcl (hall be bound to 3-
nothcr port, than that, at which lhe may cuter, the
!■ tters belonging to, or to be delivered al the said
pori of delivery, diali not be delivered to the poft.|
mifttr at the port o! entry. And it (hall bethej
duty of the collrftor or other officer ot the port,
empowered to receive entries ot Ihips or veficjs i
to require from every mailer or commander ot
luch ship of veffcl, anoath or affirmation, purport-!
mg that he has dcliTered all such lettcis, cxccpt is
atorefaicl.!'
In fcttion 13, " That the poftmafler lo whom
Inch lettcis may be delivered, (hall pav to lhe
matter, commander, or wher peifon dcliveiinr
the fame, except the commanders of foreign pack"!
" s > lwo c f" ts to, every such letter or packet; and
(hall obtain from the person delivering the fame
a ceithcate fpccifyiug the number of letters and''
packtts, with the name of the lhip or vclle!.
and the place from whence (he lull failed ; which
e-eriificate, together with a receipt for the monev,
lhall be with Ins quartcilv accounts, tranfmitttd
to the Poftmattcr-Qerteral, who lhall credit the
amount thereof to the poiimafter torwaiihn ■ the]
lainr/' ° |
Forgtvtral ivjormaii'on,. the 14th Mien i. pub
lished, " And be u further I'hat il any !
pet (on, other than i|ie PoHjnafter-General, or his
dcput.cs, or perfomby them employed, (hail take
up, receive, order, d.lpatth, convey, carry or de
liver any leltei or lctteis, packet or packet*, other
than iiewfpaperl, for hire or rewaid, or Hull he
concerned in setting up any ioot or hoile pod,
waggon or other carnage, by or it) which any leu
'Vn? 1 " be carried for hire, on anv t Ha
' ed poll-road, or any packet, or other'tfellel
or oodi, or any conveyance whatever, whereby the
revenue ol the general polt-ortce may be injured,
every perlon, lo ofi'endiug, (hall forfeit, for every
p ll>e fun. ol two huud.eti dollars.
rov: ed, f hat 1: lhall and may be lawful for eve.
rV pe,l£ -- : 10 '""J :r packets by 1;...*,, u.cf-
Jcnger,
J0>l" PUBLISHED,
Vol. 11l
(iaw3m)
American Lead Manufacto..,
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
TTAVE just now opened Iheir I.ead.\V,,
11 house, two dooi 4 south ofWaL,
\Vhavf, adjoining their New laamy_ wle
"e now made, and ready f or fair 1
need E ~'X tSftj °Ztt° f
to be equal in qua | lty IO „ £™ »
r --uced P „e lr „ rol L cSS
addrelfcd lo cither of the ab,we Kafl
Men, at the Aw"wh°";
go wages, and other • ncouugemeiiti w j|| j!'
houi 1 :;zz ce - bc *« p-*-.
J ' orf «ri her partieirtara inquire of.MfflTrs Mo»t«
as above. l'aclory &lshia £%
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. ? t f
B O O K S,
"""I KD AND SOLD fly
mathew carey'
A XUrk "- StT "U Phihdtlphm. '
i. A MEKICANMUSEUM,f,om IIS commrn«.
U men ui January , 7 8 7) to Dcccmbrr i;,,.
""""""
, Tim work, which is now conduflfd on an in,
proy.cl P"u, containing t,.c bell pieces publilhcct
foi and against the proceedings of government
| will be found to contain at least a. Wat a vancw
of political, agricultural, and raifcclTancous tffays
as any ever pubj.flied in America. Perhaps in
one work are lu many valuable documents refp-ft.
ing tile h.ftoiy ol thu country, collected together
His Excciiciicv the Prrlident of the United' State,
has dec,.,eo of „, .that "a more ufeful literary
i pJan has never ueen undertaken in America, nor
one more deferring ,of public encourage,,,rat
| 1 he iubkri pt'.on is two dollars and a lidlf per
| ami Ueuilenien the country who wii},
.be fuppned With this work, are requelM to give
Ecoinmioion to tnend» i, v the city to iubferibe lor
i d " A "V of the back numbtis
I may be had in order to complete lets.
1,."' , L3 r a ' c '' Library, containing Mifi
tJ'egory's Legacy, Lady Pennine
,ton s Advice,jMarchionefa of LambettV Advice
Swift's Letter to a newly married Ladv.Mrj.Clu
pone on command of 1 enper, Morc's tables lor
-ilic Ladies, Price 6/6.
3. Smith's Hittory of New-York, frotnits firft
i feiilement to the year i 73 j. To which is annex
ed, a delciiption ol the country, with a flioit
account of the inhabitants, their religious an-l
political Rate, and the coiiftitutien of the court*.
o» ju it ice. Pi ice a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, l-v Jamesßeat-
He, 1. l.d, profeffor ot moral philosophy and
10-ic in the Marilchal College. Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of □ dollar. Of /Ins book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : "We
have fv en nothing 011 these subjects more plain,
nioie pcrfpicuous, or more generally ufeful."——*
B. It is introduced into the UuivcrjUty.in Phi
ladelphia.
• 5 beauties of Poetry, British and
containing fclcd production* of the most eminent
British and American poets—Price four-fi'thsof
d dollar.
6. B-air's Sermons,containing the whole of the
three volumes ot the linttfli two—
Price two doilar .
7- N cker'i Treafife on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—.-Price four-fifths of a doljar.
8. Examination of the Oolervations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bi.hs ol a dollar.
9» T lie CoiWhtutions of the several United States,
with the Federal Conftitutiou, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a nrw edition ia
i2ino.— Pricedhrec-eighths of a dollar.
ix. American left Book, in two parts, with
two very neat engravings—Pricc bound,
filths ol a dollar.
12. Garden of the Sojjl, bv Bifiiop
Price, bound it* calf ar\d iettued, tbrec qnaritrt
of a dollar—-plain, half a dollar.
13. Ti.e Do way Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto— Price, elegantly bouud and letter
ed* 50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Chrutian'b Vade Mecum —Piice a»
quarter Hollar. ;
15. Think well on'f, or reflexions for every
day of the month.-rPnce a quarter dollar.
16. Chiiilian Econtfmy, tranAatcd Imm a
Greek manufcripl, found in the 1 Hand of Patir.oA
" here St. John wrote the Apocalypfe—P riccs »
si th of a dollar.
17. History of Charles (Ji and ifon, abridged—
Price a sixth of a dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a thir
of a dollar.
ig. Sele£fc -Poems, chiefly American—P f!CC 3
sixth of a dollar. 6
Said Carey has for faic, 3 large aflbrtment o
Books, European as well J as American editions,
which he will difpofeWon the most itafuM
terms. Country 'gentlemen, who [nor ' mn *" w
commands, may depend upon Ivi'rijj f«ipp' ,f "*
the moil fat isfacrory mannrr. A liberal allowance
so luch as ptirchafc quantities lor public library »
or to (ell agrain. — - —
NEW TEA S.
IM P ERI.4 L,HYSO N & SOUCHONG,
Oft he v< < v fit ll quality, and latest impo rtatl °
from Canton, *ia New-York, by rci>' i* 1
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnui <n<) Market Sirf«'-
Tl> r.E SOLD BY THE »IJITO»,
ATABI.E for receiving and p»V'»< l,
,he ,h,'IWd.MH tJ , Ihwwg £
Value of Gold in Dollars and Ccn'J, from u
a Tbontanrl Pennyweights —according to 1 * ,
of C'onaicis, afcctainingt he Siaudai d i-tf
of Gold.