&az((Uofi6M
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 104, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, April 25, 1792.
SECOND CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
and held at the city of Philadelphia; in the State of Penn
° fylvama, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thouCand seven bundled and ninety-one.
AN ACT supplementary to the Ael for tlie Efta
blifhmenc and support of Light-Houses, Bea
cons, Buovs, and Public Piers.
Section j.TJE it ena&ed by the Senate and Honfe of Re
-13 prefentatives of the United States of America
in Congress a fembled, That all expences which ftiall accrue
from the £rft day of July next, incluftvely, for the necelFarv
fupoort, maintenance, and repairs of all light-houses, beacon's,
buoys, the llakcage of channel, on the sea coast, r.nd public
piers, (hall continue to be defrayed by the United State*, un
til the firi day of July, in the year one thousand feveo hun
dred and ninety-three, notwithstanding such light-houses, bea
con"., or public piers, with the lands and tenements thereunto
belonging, and the jurisdiction of the fame, ihall not in the
mem time be ceded to, or veiled in the United State;, by the
St ite or States respectively, in which the feme may be, and
tut the said time be farther allowed, to the States refpedive
jy to make such ceilion.
Sec. 2. And be it further ena&ed, That the Secretary of
the Treasury be authorized to cause to be provided, erected,
and placed, a floating beacon, and as many buoys, as may be
necc Idtv for the fecuritv of navigation, at, and near the en
trance of the harbor of Charleston, in the State of South-Ca
rolini. And alio to have affixed three floating beacon; in the
bav of Chefapeak ; one at the north end of Willoughby's Spit,
another at the tail of the Horse-Shoe ; and the third on the
ftoale:* place of the middle ground.
•JONATHAN TF.UMBULL, Speaker
ejthe Ilonfe oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Pref.devt of the United States,
end Picjident of the Senate.
AFP*OV£O APR I L THE TWELFTH, 3792-
GEORGE WASHI NfGTON,
Prejxicvt of the Ihitcd States.
AN ACT to erc& a Light-House on Montock
Point in the State of New-York.
SK iteaatted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress alfembled,
That as soon as the juril*di<stion of such land on Montock point
in t ie State of New- York as the Prefidentof the United States
fakfU deem fufficient and moil proper for the convenience and
accommodation of a light-house shall have been ceded to the
United State >, it lhall be the duty of the Secretary of the
Treasury, to provide by contrail w'.ijch ftiiili be approved by
tie President of the United State?, for builu'ng a light house
thereon, and for furnifhing the fame with ail necelfary sup
plies, and to agree far the salaries or wages of the person
or persons who may be appointed by the President for the fh
perkKendance aad care of the fame ; a id the President is here
by authorized to make the said appointments. That the num
ber and disposition of the lights in the (aid light houle lhall be
facH as may tend to dlfringuifli it from others, and as far as is
practicable, prevent miifcakes.
JONATHAN TRUMBT'U,, Speahr
of the Houje of Reprcjentativei.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-FrefJmt ofthe United States,
and Prcfi-dektvJ the Senate.
APPROVED, MAR C? H THF. TWEIfIH, 1"Q
AN ACT for afcertainihg the Bounds of a Traift
of Land purchased by John Cleves Symmes.
T> E it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
-L) of the United States of America in Congress ailembled,
That the President of the United States be, and he hereby is
authorized at the request of John Cleves Symmes or his agent
or agents, to alter the contract made between the late board
«f treasury and the foid John Cleves Symmes for tfre sale of a
traffc of land of one million of acres, in such manner that the
said tract may extend from the mouth of the Great Miami, to
the mouth of the little Miami, and be bounded by tlie river
Ohio, on the south, by the Great Miami on the weft, by the
Little Miami on the east, and by a parallel of latitude on th
north extending from the Great Miami to the Little Miami,
lb as to comprehend the proposed quantity of one million cf
acres, provided that the northern limits of the said tract lhall
not interfere with the boundary line eftablilheu by the treaty
of Fort Harmar, between the United States, and the lad-.an
nations, and provided also that the President reserve to the
United State-?, such lands at and near Fort Waffling ton as he
may think necelfary for the accommodation cf a garrison a*
that Fort.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Sbraket
ojthe Hou/eoJ Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS. Vice-President of tke United States,
and I refiient oj the Senate.
APFRCVED A?R I L THF TWELFTH. 179'
<,F.ORGi WASUIN'GTON,
Prtjidcnt cj the'Jntted States.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
prcjtdcnt of thr tfr.itcd Stales.
AN ACT for fixing the compensation of the
Doorkeepers of the Senate and House of Re
presentatives in Congress.
BS it enacted by the Senate and House 6f Reorefentatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That from and after the termination of the present session of
Congress, the door-keepers of the Senate and House of Repre
sentatives, shall each be allowed a salary of five hundred dol
lars per annum, in full compenlation for their services in the
laid offices; and that the afliftant door-keeper to each House
fhaß be allowed in fuil conipeufation for all his fervrce?, the
sum of f)ur hundred and fifty dollars per annum. And it shall
be the di*ty of the raid door-keepers to do the usual services
pertaining to their refpeftive offices during the fefljon of Con
gress, and in the recess, under tlie direction of the Secretary
of the Senate and Clerk of the House of Representatives, to
take care of the apartments occupied by the refpe&ive Hau
te", and provide fuel and other accommodations f>r their sub
sequent session. And the said compensations shall tie certified
and paid in like manner as is provided by law, far the other
officers of the Senate and House $f Representatives.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Spethr
oj the House oj ReprefirJativts,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-PreJiderJ of the United States,
and PrtMent rf the Senate.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prefilent of the United States.
FROM Till QUEBEC HERALD.
AGRICULTURE
TO THE EDITOR.
S I R,
IF the tiling] that occur in the praSice of husbandry calruHtrd
to ttitow light upon any particular branch of that bulinels,
y/cre in general made public, it would doubtlrfs be ol great uti
lity ; in that way farmers may mutually aid and alBIl each other;
and miy, not only find their lahor in many refpeds maj- easier
but learn bow to apply it 10 much better purpolc ; if the foilow-
Hige*j»e»im«W«»ndobfervatioiis (hould be thought to be calcu
lated to promote that valuable purpose, or, any part of them, they
'are at your service.
Considering the great qoantittesof potatoes that are raised in the
province, * appeared 10 me of considerable cOßteqoeuce to have
it determined, whether for feed or culture
Large potatoes, or small—whole potatoes, or cuttings—the
whole potatoes cut up, or the eyes only cut out—large cuttings, or
small—early planting, or late—few hoeings, or many—were best?
—To try to cast {owe ligtot ispon these queries, the follow rag ex
perimenls have been made in the course of the two tail fcafons.
Ii may here be observed with refpeft to all the following experi
ments, that land was chosen as near alike as could conveuieutly be ;
and dunged alike by measure :
For the (juery, the potatoes taken for teed, weighed,
Th« firfl fee, si «z. each.
The second J oz
The third 3 to an 07.
The fiift and second fizc were cut into near as m:ny pieces as there
were eyes; the third were planted whole and the fame experi
ment was repeated the lad year m two different places, and again
this year, extept that the second fire was tried [Ms year only.
The «verage of aJI the fcveral trials together, is as follows :
Firfl size, H7lbs.
S cond do. 110 *0 oz.
Third do. 106 8 ditto
The third fiw, being three potatoes to an ounce were, doubtless
as small or smaller than people in genera! take pains to gather, and
though not equal to either of the forgoing, yet ii appears by the
above experiments, rhat they will do to plant when larger cannot
be had. .
For the second query, trials were made in two places, and wub
two kinds of potatoes in each, viz. potatoes weighing ounces,
ar.d others 3to an ounce. The largcft size had generally four
teen or fifteen eyes in each poratoc, which when cut up is enough
for two hills, and in (hat way I planted them ; wher« the large
whole potatoes were planted I put one in each bill; where the
cutting were planted, I made one of these large potatoes serve
for two hills, saving halt the feed ; and hills where the cuttings
were, had about the fame number of (talks as the other : Thrs
mav 'seem strange but I have lound it to be true in other inttances;
when potatoes are cut into as many picces as there arc eyes, every
eye will commonly vegetate, and I have known fume of them put
out more than one stalk. On the other hand, when a potatoeis
planted whole, frequently not more than one half of the eyes ve-
grtatc.
" The average weight of an equal number of hills each, was as
foilous :
Whole potatoes, 82lbs. 13 oz.
Hatt rhe fame number cut up, 85 do. g do.
Those that were three to an ounce, were put three whole ones in a
hill and half the fame quantity of those that were cut; they yielded
The whole potatoes, 75 lt>s - 17 oz -
The cut. ditto, 63 do. 12 do.
The last part of this experiment (hews, that potatoes so small as
3 to an ounce, are hurt much by cutting ; but the produce of the
(mall ones, that were planted whole, in this experiment, was in
nearly the fame proportion with the produce of the latge ones in
it; is that of the small ones to the large ones in the foregoing
exoeriment, and serves, together with that, to (hew thit tHe rela.
live value o? such small potatoes, a. three to an ounce -when com
oated with those that weigh 3A ounces each, is nearly as 10 to 11 ;
and thia difference will be considerably diminilhed, wtien it is
confidercd, that it does not take moie than halt so many bufheis
of the small ones to feed an acre as it does of latge ones ;a! that
they are but of little value, compared vinth the others, (or any
other purpose than thai of feed.
(This is to be continued as it come 1 to hand J
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENKO,
READING the newspapers, I perceive that our public offi
cers are called knaves arid enemies of liberty. The mea
sures of government are represented not only in the papers by
paragraph writers, but by the (beech-makers in as
the worll that any country ever fuffered to be execute J.—
413
cPMt&o
Whole No. 51 2.]
Now, I agreed to this rcvr con ft i tut ion. T have often felt
pleasure ii> feeing; a new face on things since it was adopted—
and my neighbours, who were rather a* iirft thought inclined
to be antis, acknowledge that the success of the government
has been greater than they expected, and infteail of heavy di
re<st taxes, they fay that the farmers are peculiarly intereiied
in Aipoorting the government, as it has not ailVlled them to
pay the intereit money to the creditors—on the contrary, the
taxos encourage the sale of our produce;
But they tell us that the beads of the ./departments are very
bad men. If so, they were bad men before they were aopoint
ed—arid how came the President to trufl such bad iiieu with
power. But the man who has in every a&ion of hi" life mani
fefted his love of his country, is not to be supposed to have
made choice of very bad men in this internee. Judging of
them bv their appointer, and by their works, I fay, as an in
dividual, I place my confidence in the government and the
heads of its departments.—By their fruits ye shall know them.
If they go on as they have begun, every true-hearted Ameri
can will fay, and in his prayers too, " go on and prosper."
FOR THE GAZFTTt Of THE UfiiTF.l) STATES.
ON THE NATIONAL MONUMENT,
Dt frgnrd to perpetuate American Liberty—which it
has been proposed to employ Mr. CERACCHI, the
celebrated Roman Sculptor, to execute.
AS works of this kind depend for their appro
bation on sentiment, there is no use in rea
soning about thent. An attempt to vindicate this
public work, will be unfuccefsful, unlels more is
felt than can be said. The gratitude of a nati
on, the fame of its hero, the sympathy that is
indulged by the free when they join to comme
morate the event that has made them so, and
when they give to posterity an admonition in
marble, to prelerve inviolate in every future age,
the precious inheritance which the prefe:u lias
obtained for tliem—thefe are emotions which
cannot, by reasoning, be either fubdutd or awak
ened.
The precedent of such expence is feared. But
what does it commemorate —the birth of our
nation, which cannot happen again. What other
event can have equal pretenllons ? — or, if one
equally impoitant fliould occur, who could deny
that its nature would make a precedent ?
The proper reward of virtue is gratitude.
The afFetflionare admiration of a whole people,
is the only adequate return for the signal merit:
of the man in whom it is concentered. Tafle
and genius will chiflel this sentiment in the rock,
and make it indelible. Will not these means of
Augmenting the recompence of virtue contribute,
iu the molt powerful manner, and in all future
times, to excite it ? And if this work should
flimulate the emulation of future heroes and
patriots, what could more fuccelsfully promote
the cause of liberty—of our country—-of man
kind ! Even to the fordid foul that cnu prefer
gold to virtue, it will seem to be good economy
to bear the expence of a work which will tend
to raise up another WASHINGTON. And let
him who doubts this tendency read the hidory
of aniient Greece—What a fuccellion of patriots
and heroes served, and for centuries laved that
illustrious people ! The mind, weary and de
jected with the recital of human vice and misery,
is cheered by this contemplation.
If modern Greece that rears no monuments,
and yet is not left iinpoveriflied than debased—
which is the burial ground rather of the living
than the dead, for the living sleep in lilence and
darkness and oblivion, unconscious of their an
celtry ; while those whose graves they tread on,
by their glory still live and fill and govern the
earth—if Greece could rekindle a single spark
of the genius of her progenitors, is there one of
the nation so degenerate, whose foul has been so
much the victim of Turkilh brotality, that he
would not prize his country's honors beyond any
other inheritance ?
These are reasons to shew the tendency to in
cite and to reward pre-eminent virtue. Butfome
care ftiould be taken to secure what it has ob
tained. Such a monument ofliberty will make
it sacred. The law of the Ten Tables was ou
brass, and rufl has corroded them—Let the De
calogue ofliberty be engraved on the unperifh
abie marble. ESTO PERPETUA.
Certificate Loft.
TT7 AS Loft, on the 17th iuft. a CERTIFICATE, Numbered
VV 59>49Qi granted to Lev/is Nichola, lor the fuui of
307 24 90th Dollars, dated the ill of May, 1784, and signed by
John Pi erce, Esq. matked with the i.tier /.—Whoever has
found the fame, and will teturn it to Clement BiDDLE,Efq.
Notary Public, at No. 62, in Front-street, south ol Market-ftreet y
or to the Primer of this paper, frail be grneroufly rewarded.
April 18, 1792
A FAKMSR.-
■
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
THE following communications, from the Pre
sident of the United States, were read in the
House of ReprefentatiTes on Friday the 13th inib.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
House oj Representatives,
I HAVE thought it proper to lay before you,
a communication of the 1 ith inll. from the mi
nister plenipotentiary of Great-Britain, to the
secretary of state, relative to the commerce of
the two countries ; together with their explana
tory correspondence, and the secretary of state's
letter to me on the fub}e<S.
April 13, T792.
SIR,
I HAVE the honor to lay before you a com
munication from Mr. Hammond, minister pleni
potentiary of his Britannic majesty, covering a
clause of a statute of that country relative to its
commerce with this ; and notifying a detertni
nation to carry it into execution henceforward.—
Conceiving that the determination announced
could not be really meant as extensively as the
words import, I asked and received an explana
tion from the minister, as exprafled in the letter
and answer herein enclosed ; and, on considera
tion of all circumstances, 1 cannot but confide in
the opinion exprefled by him, that its sole ohje(ft
is to exclude foreign veflels froin the iflatids of
Jersey and Guernsey.
The want of proportion between the motives
exprefled and the measure, its magnitude and
consequences, total tilence as to the proclamati
on on which the intercourse between the two
countries has hitherto hung, and of which, in
this broad sense, it would be a revocation, and
the recent manifeftations of the disposition of
that government, to concur with this in mutual
offices of friendfhip and good will, support his
conftrmfiion.
The minister moreover aflured me verbally,
that he would immediately write to his court for
an explanation, and in the mean time is of opi
nion, that the usual intercourse of commerce be
tween the two countries (Jersey and Guernsey
excepted) need not be suspended.
I have the honor to be, with sentiments of the
nioft profound relpedt and attachment, Sir,
Your nioft obedient and most humble servant,
TH. JEFFERSON.
The President of the United States.
Sir,
I HAVE received by a circular dispatch from
my court, directions to inform this government,
that, conlklerablc inconveniencies having arisen
from the importation of tobacco in foreign ves
sels into the ports of his majesty's dominions,
contrary to the a<a of the 12th Charles 2. chap.
tB. l'ecfl. 3. (commonly called the navigation adt)
it has been determined in future (Vrictly to en
force this clause, of which 1 take the liberty of
enclosing to you a copy ; and 1 have the honor
to be, with perfect esteem and respect, Sir,
Your molt obedient humble servant,
(Signed) GEO. HAMMOND.
12 Char. 2. Chap. 18. Sect. 3.
AND it is further enacted by the authority a
foicfaid, That no goods or commodities whatfo-
C p ei L^e growth, production, or manufacture
ps Africa, Alia, or America, or of any pari there
of, which are described or laid down in the nfu
al maps or charts of tbofe places, be imported
into England, Ireland, or Wales, islands of
Guernsey and Jersey, or town of Berwick upon
Tweed, in any other ship or ships, vellel or ves
sels, vvhatfoever, but in such as do truly and with
out fraud, belong only to the people of England
or Ireland, Dominion of Wales, or town of Ber
wick upon Tweed, or of the lands, islands, plan
tations or territories in Asia, Africa or America
to his majesty belonging, as the proprietors and
right owners thereof, and whereof the matter
and three-fourths at least of the mariners are
hngl.fl!, under the penalty of the forfeiture of
all inch goods and commodities, and of the fhi»
or vellel in which they were imported, with all
ler guns, tackle, furniture, ammunition and ap
parel one moiety to his majefly, his heirs and
fucceilbrs, and the other moiety to him or then,
who (hall seize, inform, or sue for the fame in
any court of record, by bill, information, plaint
01 othei action, wherein no eflbine, protection
or wager of law shall be allowed. '
GEO. WASHINGTON
Philadelphia, j4pril 13, 1792
Phihddphia, April ir, 1792
Sir,
I AM this moment favored with theletteryou
did me the honor of writing yesterday, covering
the extract of a 3riiifh llatute forbidding the ad
niifiiun of foreign vefl'els into any ports ot che Bri
tifli dominions,with goods or commodities of the
growth, production, or manufacture of America.
The effect of this appears to me so extensive,
as to induce a don be whether I un<lerftand right
ly the determination to enforce it, which yon no
tify, and to oblige me to alfc of you, whether we
are to consider it a 9 so far a revocation of the
proclamation of yonr government, regulating
the commerce between the two countries, and
that henceforth no articles of the growth, pro
du<siion, or manufacture of the United States,
are to be received in the ports of Great-Britain,
or Ireland, in veflels belonging to the citizens of
the United States ?
I have the honor to be, with fentiinents of the
most perfe<fl esteem and refpeft, Sir,
Your mod obedient fcid inoft humble servant,
TH. JEFFERSON.
The minister plenipotentiary of Great-Britain.
Sir,
IN answer to your letter of this day, I have the
honor of observing, that I have no other instruc
tions upon the (übjetfl of my communication, than
such as are contained in the circular dispatch, of
which I Hated the purport in my letter dated
yesterday. I have, however, 110 difficulty in as
suring you, that the result of my personal con
vitftion is, that the determination of his majesty's
government to enforce the clause of the at'i of
navigation (a copy of which I transmitted to you)
with refpetft to the importation of commodities
in foreign veflels, has originated in consequence
of the many frauds that have taken place in the
importation of tobacco into his majesty's domi
nions, in foreign veflels, and is not intended to
militate against the proclamation, or order of
the king in council, regulating the commercial
intercourse between Great-Britain and the Unit
ed States, which I have every reason to believe
(till exists in full force, as I have not had the
most distant intimation of its being revoked.
I have the honor to be, with the moll perfedi
efteein and consideration, Sir,
Your molt obedient humble servant,
(Signed) GEO. HAMMOND.
Mr. Jefferfon.
Read in the Hvufs of Representatives the i yth inft.
Report of the committee to whom were referee!
the memorials of Joseph Ceracchi, a Roman
sculptor.
THAT on examining the journals of the
late Congress they find the following resolutions
unanimously agreed to on the 7th Anguft, 1783,
to wit
" llelolved, That an Equestrian Statue of Ge
neral Walhington be ere<fted at the place where
the residence of Congress shall be eftablilhed."
" Resolved, That the Statue be of bronze—
The General to be represented in a Roman dress
holding a truncheon in his right hand, and his
head encircled with a laurel wreath ; tbe Statue
to be supported by a marble pedestal, 011 which
are to be represented, in baflb relievo the follow
ing principal events oYthe war, in which Gene
ral Wafliington commanded in p«rfon, viz. The
evacuation of Bolton—The capture of the Hefli--
ans at Trenton—The Battle of PrincetOH—The
adlion of Monmouth ; and the surrender of
York. On the upper part of the front of the
pedettal, to be engraved as follows, " The Unit
ed States in Congress aflembled ordered this sta
tue to be ereded in the year of our Lord 1781
in honor of George Wafliington, the illustrious
commander in chief of the armies of the United
States of America, during the war which vindi
cated and secured their liberty, fovereiguty and
independence.
The committee are of opinion, that the honor
and dignity of government require a speedy and
liberal execution of the said resolutions"; and
that the plan therein proposed forexpreflino- the
gratitude of our conntry for the Cervices of her
most beloved and illufhious citizen, be extended
to exhibit to pofieriry, the triumph of liberty
and virtue : The committee therefore submit
the following resolutions ;
" Kelolved, That the Secretary of State the
Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary at
War, for the time being, or any two of i hem, be
appointed Commiflioners, to canfe the said Mo
nument to be completed, agreeably to the said
resolutions, with fucli additional ornaments em
blematical of the virtue and heroism of the citi
zens of the United States, in effecting t l, e l at e
revolution, as may inspire reverence for repub
lican government, and cherish that union and
ove ot country, by which this great event has
been atchieved.
llcfolved, i hat Congress will provide at their
next leffion for the payment of dollars per
annum, for a term not exceeding IO years to
complete the (aid monument."
414
Philadelphia, April 12, 1792.
Philadelphia April 12, 1 792.
HOUSE OF R E PREVENTATIVE*;
SATURDAY, April si.
.The Speaker laid before the House a letter and report from
the Secretary of the Treasury, on twenty-four petitions re
specting loft or destroyed certificates, and praying a 'renewal
of them—referred to a feleft committee.
The memorial of sundry merchant! of the city of New
York, refpefting bankrupt laws, was referred to a'feleftcom
inittee.
A msffags was received from the President of the United
States, by Mr. Lear, his Secretary, notifying, that the Prefi
dent did this day approve and sign "An ast authorifin? the
grant and conveyance of a certain trad of land to Hie nh;»
Company of Associates." Utu#
The following written melpase was also delivered bv the
Secretary : United States, April 21ft, nqj
Gentlemen-os the Senate, and
House of Representatives,
I lay before you the copy of a letter, which X h? ve received
from the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Pennfvlvania diftrift, relative to the " Ast to provide' for
the settlement of the claim* of widows and orphans barred bv
the limitations heretofore eftablidied, and to regulate the
claims to invalid pensions.
GEO. WASHINGTON
Tne letter referred to, was rend and laid on the table
Mr. Williamfon presented a bill providing for thefa'eof
land; in the territory of the United States, north-weft of the
river Ohio, which was read the firft time.
An engrofled bill for railing a further sum of money for the
protection of the frontiers, was read the third time, and the
blanks therein filled up—and upon the question that the said
bill do pass, it was lefolved in the affirmative, as follow ■
AYES.
MeflTrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot, S. Bourne B.
Bourne, Brown, Clark, Findley, Fitzfunons, Gerry, Gilinan
Goodhue, Gordon, Hartley, Hillhoufe, Huger, Key, Kitchet
Kittera, Lawrance, Learned, Livermore, Moore! Muhlen
berg, Murray, Niles, W. Smith, Staele, Sterrett, Stages.
Sylvester, Thatcher, Vining, W'adfworthi Ward, White-??
NOES. "
MelTrs. Alhe, Baldwin, Giles, Grove, Macon, Madiibn.
Mercer, Page, Parker, Sciioonmaker, Senev, Sheredine l
Smith, I. Smith, Smnpter, Treadwe'.l, Tucker, Venable.wC
liamfon, "Willis—2o. ;
On the pasTing this bill, Mr. Page made the following re
marks—lf the bill were what its title fays it is, I Ihou'ld be
the lad man in this House to vote against it—But it is so dif
ferent from what its title represents it to be, that this, added
to the o'-rjefhons which I have already made and heard a-ainft
it, I Ihall vote againfl: its paflage.—Sir, it is not a bill so? the
protection of the frontiers, but for the encouragement of cer
tain manufactures, and of the fifiieries, and for the encreafe
of the finking fund—it is a bill very different from what it
ought to be, and is about to pass, f.om what has fallen from
some gentlemen, as a compromise for the afTumption of the
Irate debts, and an encouragement to the manufactures and
nlheries Such compromise I cannot approve of m r and fucha
bill I cannot vote for—lf it he thrown 'out, I think we mav
brinir in one to answer its purpose much better—; It is improper
to entangle this hill with matter foreign to it—there is no oc
casion to repeal the a<si for eftablifiiing a permanent revenue,
to blend it with this bill.
Air. Vinin,£ laid on the table a resolution that Congref<;
mould adjourn on the sth of Mav, to meet again on the firft
Mondav of
A motion made on Wednesday last, by Mr. Gerry, being wil
ed up, and in part agreed to, a committee was, pursuant
thereto, appointed, to enquire into the itate of the recruiting
service and to report.
Mr. Boud.not moved, That a joint committee of both
Houses be directed to wait on the President of the United
States, to request he will recommend to the people of these
states a day of public humiliation and prayer, to be obfetfvdd
by fupplit ating the Almighty for the fafety, peace and welfare
of the Union. Adjourned.
MONDAY, April 23.
On motion of Mr. Dayton a committee was«p
pointed to bring in a bill to authorize the grant
and conveyance of a certain tradtof land to John
Cleves Symnies.
A bill providing for the sale of lands in the
territory of the United Stales, north weft of the
River Ohio, was read the second time, and com
mitted for to-morrow.
In committee of the whole on the bill provicl
ing for calling forth the militia to execute the
laws of the union, suppress infurrecftions, and
repel invasions Mr. W. Smith in the chair.
Various amendments were proposed foineofthem
agreed to, others rejected.
A motion was made by Mr. Page, to ftri!(eot)t
the second fediion—Another motion was offered
by IVir. Benfon to amend it, by Ajbdituting the
words of the Constitution relative to insurrec
tions, Sec.—both these motions were negatived
after some debate.
Mr. Steele moved to ft i ike out the latter part
of the fetftion, which empowers the Prefidenc °-
the United States to march the militia of one
Itate into another, to quell infurretlions, &c
---in cafe lhe militia of such ftatefhall refufe,oi be
inlufficient for the purpose.—This motion occa
sioned a lengthy debate, and was finally negs*
tived.
Mr. Steele then moved to add a clause, which
provided for the intervening of a fefiion of Con
gress previous to the exercising this power— This
was also negatived. ,
A motion, made by Mr. Madison, was »g ree
to, by which the section was modified so as to re-
Itrict the exercise of this power, to the recels 0
Congress, and till days after the next fefiion
shall commence.
Mr. Baldwin moved another amendment
this feclion, which was agreed to, providing t' l3t
information of any infurreciion or oppofijio"^ 0
the laws of the Union, which may require the
interposition of the military powe", (h.di oe com
municated to the I'refidentof the United States
by one of the Ai'fociare {apices, or the ditinU
Judge.Mr. Mercer proposed an additional ciaufe to
the fame fe&ion, in lubftance, providing for the
illuing a proclamation by the Prefidenc of the
United States, and for the reading of such pro
clamation in the hearing of iniurgeins, previous
to tiling a military force in quelling auy infur
jeiftion, &c. — This was agreed to.
The third fetation was then read, but the time
of adjournment being come, the committee rose
and reported progreis.
A mellage from the Senate by Mr. Secretary
Otis informed the Houfethac the Senate infill: on
their amendments to the militia bill—and requeit
a conference on the lubjert of difagreement—al
io that the Senate have palled the bill 10 indem
nify the ellate of the late Major-General ISa
thaniel Greene—with an amendment—and that
they have likewise palled a bill to compensate
the Cervices of the late Col. George Gibfon.
TUESDAY, Aprij. 24.
The amendment the Senate to the bill indemnifying the ef
talc of the late Major General Greene, wa> Had and agreed to.
The bill for compensating the service* of the Jate Col. George
Gibfon, and the bill for authorizing the and conveyance ot
a tra& of land tp John Cleves Symmts, were read iw 1 :e, and com
mitted for to-morrow.
The meflage of the Senate proposing a conference on the militia
hill, was read and laid on the table.
The committee on Mr. Gerry's motion relative to fliort hand
writers, reported a resolution on the fubjett, which was read and
laid on the table.
Mr. Vining's motion refpetting the time of adjournment, and
the time to which Congress lhall adjourn, was taken up conli
<ierab!e debate ensued refpetting the time to which Congress
ihould be adjourned—the fir ft Monday in November and the firft
Monday in December were proposed ; a motion to commit the
resolution being made, was debated and negatived. Mr. Giles
moved to strike out that part of the resolution which relates to
the next meeting of Congress, this was negatived. The motion
to insert the firft Monday in D cember being put and loft, and
tne /Vfolution being amended ufier further debate, was agreed to
in the following words :
Resolved, that the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the
House of Reprefentaii ves adjourn their refpeftive Houses on the
£th of May next, to close the prefeiu fefiTion, to meet on
luch day as may by law be determined on.
A committee was then appointed to report a bill for altering
the time of the annual meeting of Congress, to the firft Monday
in November next.
A bill making certain appropriations therein mentioned—A
bill providing for the remiflion of certain duties, and a bill for
altering the time of the annual meeting of Congress, were feveral
-1 y twice lead, and the two firft commuted.
In committee of the whole, on the bill providing for calling
forth the militia, See. The committee finifhed the difcufllon of
the bill—they agreed to sundry amendments—among others, the
Bth fe&ion was expunged, and a substitute adopted, vetting the
marshals of the several diftri&s and their deputies with (imilar
powers to those which the fhcriffs ol the several states and their
deputies may exercise in executing the laws—they then rose and
reported the bill with the amendments—which were laid on the
table.
The bill to alter the time for the next annual meeting of Con
gress, was read the third time and palled. Adjourned.
PITTSBURGH, April 14.
On Sunday the ift of April, two lads were
miffing from the waters of Whelen, and three
parties in a fliort time went in pursuit of them.
One party, the firft out, had crofled the Ohio,
and were on the opposite bank at the place where
the Indians intended to cross, at the fame time
the Indians had reached the river, and our peo
ple were unfortunately discovered by them. The
Indians fled down the river. Capt. at this
time (the second party) was about halfamile in
the rearj and the third party lower do'wiv .the
river. Coining up to the place which, tjie Indi
ans left when discovered, found they had toma
hawked and scalped the.two boys, and also haid
tomahawked on the left fjdeof the head another
lad which they had taken, but had not been
•nifled—they had scalped him and cut his throat,
but so high under the chin as not to be mortal,
and chough he will lose an eye, will recover.
This lad had ccme to liimftlf, and left the place
where he was wounded in this desperate manner
ljefore our people came up, and had got upon
<otte of the hories which the Indians had stolen,
and which they were obliged to quit, and had
rotle three miles into Grave Creek 'fenlemenr.
On Wedneiday following, a woman was .killed
and scalped near Mr. Brice's meeting house,
within two hundred yards of the great road
leading from Wafliingion to Whelen, and with
in J J miles of the fettlement.—Jn consequence
of the above information, Absalom Baird, Esq.
lieutenant of Washington county, has ordered
out a party of militia.
A man whof'e name I do not recollecT-, being
on Thursday the sth inft. at the house of a
lamily of the name of Edgar, they were talkjng
of removing to another house of the name of
Humphreys ; going back 10 Edgar's 011 Friday
a.bout noon, he found the family gone, and sup
posing they had gone to Humphreys', went over
there, and when within some distance of the
house, saw a number of mangled carcases, in
stantly made his retreat, and brought in the in
telligence. These families consisted of upwards
of twenty persons, young and old. The fettle
nient is tinder a general alarm, and Wolf's old
fort is talked of as the place of (land. This is
within five miles of the town of Wa(bington.
A letter from Whelen Fort, dated the 4th inft.
fays, " We are informed by Mr. Whitfel, one
of our spies, wiio arrived here lad night about
midnight, that he made difcoveiiet of two par
ties oi Indians, inlntmg on the head waters of
Capteenah ; that he believes a larger party of
Indians was not far .Lilant, and fuppofss they
will cross the Ohio r: the mouth of Kifti creek."
BALTIMORE, April 17.
Ext rati of a letter from a gentleman at Havre-de-
Grace Cmonth of Sufjuehannah) to his frit,id in
this town, dated on Friday I a ft.
" i have the pleasure to inform you, that a
vel'el is just arrived at my wharf here, from the
Standing-Stone, 90 miles up the Juniata River,
and 210 miles up the Sufquehannah, with upwards
ot 100 barrels of fuperfine flour. She is bound
round to Baltimore, and I hope your Merchants
will be so generous and public I'pirited (not to
fay politic) as to give every encouragement in
their power to the ("pirited adventurers 011 board,
as they are the firft and only persons who ever
carried, down this river, a cargo of such produce,
to seek a market. If our Canal was finiflicd, what
might we noc expert from the industrious enter
prising people who own and cultivate the luxu
riant foil on and near this long-extended branch
ing river !—Would it not prove advantageous to
some of your gentlemen, who are fond of fpecu
latiiig in ScRtPT of all kinds, to make some at
tempts efFe&ually to open the river Sufque
hannah I"
Adjourned
B O S T O N, April n.
F.xtraEl oj a letter fr»m a captain of a JJiip belonging to this port, dated
-f r '~/i" " J " '' •
Lisbon, Feb 4.
On Sundav last we all dined with our AmbaflTadour, Hi
Excellcncv Col. Humphreys—a fine man, and fit to shine at ani
Court. We were tweniy-t wo in number, and had an elegant dm
ner, and parted an agreeable day.
" 1 he Queen of Portugal is near her end—and cannot live many
days.—l hope to getaway firtt, or fhaU have to go in mouininz
for her." b 5
Yeftcrday the Vice-President of the United States and his Lady
left town on a visit to his feat in Braintree, Maffachuletts—where,
we are informed ihey vv ill pass the summer.
By a gentleman lately arrived here, we learn, that General
Bowles, who has figured some time past as an Indian Chief, is
now on his way to visit Old Spain. He had commenced his
paflage from New Orleans ®n board a government cutter, attend
ed by a military cfcort.
It is prcfunied that he may have some accounts to fettle in
Spain refpefting goods that lve has taken from certain (lores in
Florida, without the consent of the owners.
The Bank of New-York have declared a dividend of 4 per
cenr. lor the period of fix months, from the id of November, 1791,
to the Ift of May, 1792.
A very elegant Clock has lately been completed at the Clock
Manufactory in Roxbury (Massachusetts) which is no more than
the common height and size of an eight-day Clock, and will run a
year with once winding up.
John Baker, Reynold Keen, and Jonathan B. Smith, Esquires,
arc appointed to hold the Alderman's Court for the ensuing three
months.
On the 4th in ft. was taken off East-Hampton, Long-Island, a
Whale, which it is said will make upwards of 70 barrels ol oil.
Prefentmtnts of the Grand Jury of Wilkes county, in Georgia,
fay, we are happy to find that morality and good order has fomuch
prevailed, that there is no public grievance or prevailing inconve
nience that comes within our knowledge.
A pair of extraordinary fine cattlc were fold in our market on
Saturday last. The largest of them was a five-year-old, and fed
but one season. He was publicly weighed by Mr. Fisher, the
clcrk of the market, and the weights are es follow, viz.
To expedite bufmefs in repairing the ftrects, a large plough
on a particular conftru&ion has been fuccefsfully employed in
starting the old pavement in Second-ftreet—from High to
Mulberry-street has been ripped up in about one day.
We are informed by the Mate of the ship Citizen, arrived
at this port from St. Andero, that three sailors, one by the
name of Jackson, and the other by the name of ChurcWell,
the other name unknown, who failed from Philadelphia the
12th December last, in the Teresa, lloderiguez, bound to
Spain, were to be executed in a few days, for having murder
ed the Captain and crew of the said brig, and endeavoring to
go off, were dete&ed in th« 6ay of Biicay, and brought into
St. Andero.
4i The queen being in a very ill state of health has sent the
enclosed decree to the Tribunals, the Prince continuing the
public business, and signing all State papers in her name. We
are all very much affe&ed at the situation of so good a sove
reign, the dilorder having attacked her head so that ihe has
loft the right use of her lenses."
The admin iftration of public affairs having devolved upon
me by the notorious difabiiity of our Lady the Queen, and the
phy 11 clans having declared that all application to public buli
nefs would be injurious to her health. Yielding therefore to
circumstances and unavoidable neceflity, and to the will of
the said Queen, which has opportunely been made known, I
resolved to attend in Council and sign public dispatches in her
name, without* making any alteration in the accustomed forms,
so long as the said impediment fhaU last, or until she fhaU be
pleased to order it otherwise.
There are sentiments advanced now-a-days which those
who utter them would be forrv fliouldhave their full force and
operation on the public mind.—Why then are they brought
Forward ?—There are several answers which might be given
—but let this admonition fuffice —it is dangerous to sport on
a precipice.
Philadelphia, April 25.
Fore quarters,
Hind quarters,
The four quarters, *493
The rough tallow (not including kidney fat) 278
The hide, - - - 134
The head, - 50
The whole weight (excluOve of the' heart,)
the liver, and the feet,) J *965
Extract of a letter Jrom Lijbon, dated 15th February, 1792.
TRANSLATION OF THE DECREE.
(Signed) JOSE de SIABRA de SA, &c,
(With tlie flouri/h of the Prince our Lord.)
Ilalfihares Bank Stock—3o per cent, piemiuni
415
4 f T*l 86 4 »-«
■432 3-4) *•
'''»«{ 628
408 3-4J
WAR DEPARTMENT.
APPOINTMENTS AND PRbMOTIONS IN THE ARMY OF THE
UNITED STATES,
■Appointed.
Major General.
Anthony Wayne, Georgia, vice Arthur St. Clair
resigned April 7, J 792.
il. Daniel Morgan, Virginia.
Mannas Wiliet, New-York.
John Brooks, MafTacbufetts
fames Wilkinfon, Kentucky.
Adjutant-General. Winthrop Sargent, Weilern Territory*
Quartermalter-General. lames O'Mara, Pennsylvania.
Deputy ditto. John Belli, Kentucky.
Brigadiers General
FIRST REGIMENT OF INFANTRY
Major.
Captains.
1 Major. Erkuries Beatty, viceZeigler, religned March 5,1792.
Captains. William Peters, Strong, promoted Nov. 4, 1791.
Jacob Kingfbury, Smith, promoted Dec. 28, 1791.
® Ebenczer Denny, Afhcton, prom. Dec. 29, 1791.
1 Thomas Martinj Rudolph, prom. March 5, 1792.
f Thomas Pafteuf, Beatty, prom. March 5, 1792.
j. Mark M'Pherion, Trueman,prom. Marcn 5, 1792.
Aleuts James Clay, Kingfbury,prom. Dec. 28, 1791.
y Daniel Britt, Denny, prom. Dec. 29, 1701.
t Hamilton Armstrong, Thompson, religned Jm. 10,92.
Bart. Shomberg, Martin, prom. Maich 5, 1792.
Bernard Gaines, Pasteur, prom. March 5, 1792.
John Wade, M'Pherion, prom.March 5,1792.
SECOND REGIMENT OF INFANTRY.
5 Promoted.
Majors. David Strong, vice Heart, killed Nov. 4, 1791.
John Smith, Trefcott, resigned Dec. 28, 1791,
Joseph Afaeton, Burnham, refig. Dec. 29, 1791.
Captains. Howe, Kirkwood, killed Nov. 4, 1791.
Daniel Bradley, Phelon, killed Nov. 4, 1791.
John Piatt, Newman, killed Nov. 4, 1791.
d Licuts. Joh« Tillinghaft, Howe, promoted Nov. 4, 1791.
Daniel Tilton, jun. Bradley, promoted Nov. 4, 179 c.
is Samuel Andrews, Piatt, promoted Nov. 4, 1791.
y John Bird, Warren, killed Nov. 4, 1791.
1- Micha M'Donough, Heth, promoted Maicns, 1792.
ENSIGNS TO FILL THE VACANCIES IN THE FIRST ANA
{ SECOND REGIMENTS.
y Appointed.
Ensigns. Andrew M'Clary, New-HampQiire.
Samuel Drake, Connecticut.
Daniel Biflel, ditto.
Andrew Marfchalk, New-Jersey.
\Villiam Marts, ditto,
Lewis Bond, ditto.
» John Lowrey, ditto.
Robert Hunter, ditto,
' Peter Shoemaker, Pennsylvania.
s William Marcus Mills, ditto.
s Jacob Krcemer, ditto.
John Michael, ditto.
Felix Long, ditto.
Samuei B. Turner, Maryland.
John Whistler, ditto.
Isaac Younghufband, Virginia.
Henry Montfort, Georgia.
William Temple Paine, lateoi N. Carolina.
SIX MAJORS OF INFANTRY.
Appointed.
Majors. Thomas Butler, Pennsylvania.
a Henry Gaiiher, Maryland.
John Clarke, Pennsylvania.
, Henry Bedinger, Virginia,
e Alexander Trueman, Maryland, promoted
from Capt. in ill Reg.
a William M'Mahon, Virginia.
SURGEONS AND SURGEONS 1 MATES.
Surgeons. Richard Allifon, promoted from the 2d regiment, to
1 be the Surgeon on the General Staff.
John Scott, promoted from Surgeon's Mate.
John F. Carmichael, ditto.
Nathan Hayward, ditto.
Appointed.
Surgeons' Mates. Charles Brown, Pennsylvania.
James Woodhoufe, ditto.
Joleph Philips, New-Jersey.
Wm. M'Crofkey, Pennsylvania.
Frederick Dalcho, Maryland.
Theophilus Elmer, New-Jersey*
FOR GARRISONS ON THE WESTERN AND SOUTHERN
Surgeons.
FRONTIERS, AND EXTRA SERVICE.
Surgeons' Mates. Wm. A M'Crea, Delaware.
Thomas Hutchins, Pennsylvania.
John Scllman, Maryland.
George Balfour, Virginia,
james Clayton, Delaware.
Thomas Farley, Massachusetts,
Died at Wilmiugton, the 21ft inft. Dr. John Dashwood,
formerly of Bolton ; aged 24.
WEEP, weep ye muses ! over Dashwoods's herfe,
Pay the fad tribute of a mournful tear;
Melpomene assist the farrowing verse,
That flows for him whom mem'ry still holds dear.
Tho' genius mark'd him for a fav'rite son,
And science blefs'd him with her richest lore;
Yet ah ! alas ! their profpe&s were undone,
By fate who robb'd them of the promifs'd (tore.
Soon as the youth attained to manly age,
E'er koary time impaired the youthful bloom ;
Insatiate death hurl'd the dire bolt of rage,
And laid him peaceful in the silent tomb.
In climes far distant from his natal lhore,
In the fair dawn of life, he fainting dies ;
His heart hard panting hove a parting groan,
And mourning strangers clos'd his dying eyes.
Light lay the turf upon his fdent head,
Green be the sward that shrouds the dust below j
Around his grave let pityiug tears be shed,
Till the dry'd source forbid them more to flow.
N. C. Slate Gazette.
Died at New-York, the 19th inftantj the Reverend Do<ftor
John Mason, Minister of the Scotch Prelbyterian Church of
that city, in the 58th year of his age-—a learned and worthy
character—few men in life were more beloved, or in death
more lamented.
On Thursday last died at his lodgings in this city, Big-
Tree, one of the Indian Chiefs of the Five Nations. His re
mains were interred in the Friends' burying-ground, in Mulr
berry-street, on Saturday.
AR'RIVAL. at the
Ship Citizen,
Brig Jason,
fme,
Hetty &: Maria,
Minerva, Morgan,
(kT* u Reflector," on the Canal in South-Carolina, in
r^xt.
Promoted.
Yuri of Philadelphia.
Gardner, St. Andero,
Lillibridge, Hifpaniola,
Swaine, Bay Honduras,
Bordeaux,
Jamaica,*
ADVERTISEMENT.
p*
(£3* TO comprize in the present volume cf this Gazette all the
taws which are and may be enatted by Congref in the present fcfion,
it will be necessary to extend the numbers to the lafl oj May. 7he fourth
volume, therefore, will commence with the beginning of June— and w ill
be printed on paper of larger dimenfons than the present, provided the
Editor's receipts of arrearages shall enable him to do it—theprn e to con
tinue at Three Dollars per annum.
Three years are nearly expiredfince this publication frf I wide its ap.
pearance; during which, fear eely a [ingle xnflance has occurred of re
miffnefs in punctually dispatching the papers from thi Printing-Office—
their failures in reaching the fubferibers, have been owing to causes
which were entirely beyond the controul of the pubtfher. Lnder the
new regulations of the Pofl-Office Department, the Subferibers Jor the
Gazette of the United States may therefore promise tkemf elves
the advantage of the flrielefl punctuality on the part oj the Editor
which, aided by that energy we /raw the greatefi reafou to expeel will
diflinguifh thefuperintendance of the Gentleman now at the head of the
Pofl-Office Department, will erfure a fleady tranfmjfan of Neaf papers
to all parts of the Union.
Farms & Mills for Sale &Lea!e.
TO BE SOLD,
A VALUABLE FARM, (ituate on the Turnpike Rend lead
ing from- Baltimore-Town to Rifter's-Town, about 6£ miles
from the former ; containing about 430 or 440 acres of good
farming land, 70 or for acies of which ai e excellent grass ground ;
about 1 170 acres ate cleared, upwards of twenty whereof.arc made
meadow; the residue abounding in good timber, and other trees
for enclosure and fuel : There arc two apple-orchards thereon,
and buildings that may do, tor the present, for an Overleer and
his family.
Also, a Tratt of LAND, containing about 600 arrc , within
(wo miles of the fa-me road, and about 18 or 20 miles distant from
Baltimore-Town ; about 700 acres whereof are cleared, well en
closed and improved by culture and with valuable buildings, fomc
ex-ellcnt meadow, near 20 acres, made.
Also, a small FARM, on a public road leading to said town,
about the famcdiftance therefrom as the last described land ; con
tain! tg 103 acres, whereon is an excellent apple-orchard, but no
other improvements of much value.
The two fir ft above-mentioned Farms are furnifhed with (laves,
stock of each kind, and all necefiary implements of husbandry,
v hich may be had with them ; they are sown with wheat, which
promises an abundant crop;—the business of the lalt of the two
has been, for nine years, and is now, conducted by a fkilful in
dustrious Manager, who may be continued in the management,
on terms.
TO RE LET,
A FARM, on the said Turnpike Road, leading from Rifter's-
Town to Winchester, Taney-Town, Frederick, and Hagcr'sTown;
■whereon is erected a large.commodious brick house, that has been
used for some years part as a tavern, and, by a tenant qualified for
that business, could be made an excellent fVage ; within a few
rods of which, and on the main, Falls of Petapfco, is also ere&ed
a GRIST-MILL, now in good oider for Merchant-Work, with a
new SAW-MILL, and Land therewith.
For the title and terms of sale, and the lcafc, of all or any part
of the.above valuable property, apply to
Baltimore County, March 7', 179?..
F O 11 S A L E,
BLOOM SBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls ol I) .ware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in New-Jei fey, occupicd for many years past by
the fubferiber.; containing upwards of 200 acres ot law], betides
a tract ©f wood-land of aboqt 185 acre*, at the diftan-e of two
miles. The farm is divided by the mam street leading fiom
Trenton 10 Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity; the eaftwardly part being.arable land, is laid
off in convenient. (icJds, and in good fat min&order. The other
part, bounded by the laid ftfeet on the east, and by- the rivpr on
the weft, forms a square; winch, from the combined effect of situ
ation and improvement, is generally, allowed to be one ot the moil
beautiful and deferable feats in the Hate. The mansion-house is a
liandfome,' well-fmiihcd brick building, 50 by'4o, containing tour
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellais, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding 3 very extenCive and pleating view ot
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and tiremriglrtrmirirrg feats and improvements on
bc)th tides of the river. Amdng the out-buildings are a new (Vone
coach-house and stables, fufHcicnt to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining theft is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a stone cow-houle, upwards of 100 feet in length,
containing t hirty~one paved ftalis, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, &c. Adjoining, the conrt-yard ol the manfion-houte, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
slate of culture, and abounding with a rich collcftion ot the
choicest fruits ot nlmoft every kind, and fevcral large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient diflancc troiri the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, well
built, rtone tarm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheel't-room,
spring-house, garden, &c. a complete stone fmoke-houl'e, corn
cribs, waggou-honfe, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
cessary out-building. The ground is properly divided into [mail
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chiefly under the
mofl approved grass. This square has pioduced amniallv, for se
veral years part, upwards of fjxty tons of the best hay,' besides
supporting through the fummtr season twemv to thirty hoi'ned
cattlt;, and eight or ten horfos. It contains alio two bearing or.
chards of good fruit. The rrver abounds, in the proper seasons,
with great pi nty of all kinds of filh usually Sound in Irefli water
in this climate, aud with a variety of wild-fowl; both of which
may affhrd a plcaiing amusement to the fporifman, as well as a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety ot his table. The
•whole of the land, exceptthe wood-land, isinclofed and divided
by good fences, great part of. which is formed of red cedar polls,
and rails of cli friut and white'cedar. The purchal'cr may have
the improved square separately, or the whole together, as may
best suit him. There is an ine'xhauftihle quantity of good build
ing stone on the river (hore. The.purchase money, if well I'ecured,
and the iritercft punflually paid, will not be demanded tor many
years.
Any pctfondefirous of viewing the premises, may be gratified
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Kfq. of Trenton,
or Mr. Inallman, who at present occupies the larm-houleand'
part of the land—and may know the price on application to the
subscriber, at No. 213, South Second-fireet, opposite to the New-
Market, in Philadelphia. JOHN CO\
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE (or receiving and paving Gold at thr Bank of the
United States, shewing the Value of Gold in Dollars and
Gems, fi«m One to a Thousand Pennyweights— according to the
Att of Conjrcft, ascertaining the Standard and Value of Gold.
Macch SI, i7ge.
RESOLVED, Tlia»t.he SiockKoJiecs br, jMd hereby are, au
thonfed to compleat their Shares. b,y payment at any time
before the periods required;by the law of incorporation. t
Resolved, That <-ach Share so compltated, (hall be entitled to
dra* a dividend of the profits of the Ban*, t'om after iheftrft
davofthc month next fucoeeding the day of compleatiiig such
Shares. ,
Resolved, That, so much of the quarter's intcreft upon the Pub
lic Debt transicrrcd to compleat any Wiaro as aforefaid, as {ball
bave'accrued belore the fir A (lay ot the month next fuccecding the
completion or such Share, lhall be received by the &mk, and. paid
to ilie persons who lhall have transfet red the fame.
By order of the Prtlident and Directors,
(eptifij) JOHN KEAN, Cojkier.
At A M**TIKC Of THE O'lUfcCtOKS OP THE
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices ot DifcoQul and Dspoilt be
»ntl,orifcd 10 reccivc ot Stockholders the 3 d and 4 ih Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Slock of the 15mk, and
that Ihe CafhietS of the laid offices give duplicate receiptsfor filch
paVTnent% onrot which receipts, accompanied wilh cvidciice of a
transfer of pub.ic debt fufheiem to complete said lliares, upon be
injr produced at the Bank, (hall entitle such Stockholdri s to cer
tificates for full shares, and to all ihe benefits of the Resolutions
ol the Board of Divots patted thcjilt instant, relative to com
pleting (hares bv payment at any timebclorc the periods requned
by the law ofnocorppration.
Bv order of the Prcddent and DircQors.
JOHN KKAN, Cajhrtr.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, MARCH 31,1792.
NOTICE U herebv given, That the iniercft for the quarter,
ending this d»v,an the FUN D EB IXnit'ed'Staies,
(landing on tlie books of theTreafury, and of the Commiflioner ol
Loans for this Stale, will be paid at the Bank of the United Stales.
1. Miss More's EflTavs 5. Swift's Letter to a new mar
2. Gregory's Legacy r ' ( d Lndy
3. Lady Pennington's Advice 6. Miss Chapone on command
4. Marchioness of Lambert's ot Temper
Advice 7* Mt>re's Fables for she Ladies
THE editor of this publication hopes, from the eltabhfhed re
nutation ot the several tracts of which it is composed, that
ir will be found a more complete fyftfem for the inftru&ion of the
female world, than perhaps ar.v other extant.
A voUime, under the prcfent title, was lately published in Eng
land and Ireland, and had a mod rapid sale. having been niiichafed
bv almost every lady of taste in those kingdoms. To this volume
the editor has added Miss More's-Eifays—Mrs. Chapone's letters
on the government of the temper—and Swift's letter to a young
ladv newly married. Thcfe have confidcrably enhanced its value,
and he: doubts not, the ladies on this fide of the Atlantic will be as
generous in their encouragement of a work intended for their ad
vantage as-thofe in Engiand and Ireland have been.
* # * SETS OF THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
AS frcrral gentlemen in difirent parts of the United have
been heretofore disappointed in their application t for complete Jets of the
A m eric a n M u s'fi um, the printer informs the public, that he is en
gaged in reprinting the deficient numbers of the work, and ha < now and
will henceforward have a conjiant fupph °f Jet* 6n hand',-—fuck gentle
men, therefore, a\ hleafe, may be Jurnifhed with Jets neatly bound, in ten
j volumes, at sixteen dollars.
This work will be found to contain at leafl as great a vari-ts• of f->lr
tical. agricultural, and mijccllanews ejjays, as any ever pubiijkfd in
America^
THOMAS JONES,
[&1
Said Carey has lately pnhlifkcd,
1. Beauties,of Poeirv, British and American, 6*.
2. KcattVe's Elements of Moral Science, ss.
3. M'Fingal, an-cpic poem, 2/9^
4. Blair's Sermons, complete in 2 vols. 15s.
5. Neckei's Treanfeon Religious Opinions, 6*.
6. kx-amination of Sheffield's Observations, 4^B
7. American Constitutions, 4^B
8. Dow.av Bible—near, 6 dolls.—elegant, 50/2
9. Vade.Mecum, i/io£
10. Charles Grandiion, abridged.
11. Humphrey's Poems, bound 2/"6, in blue paper i/ic£
le. American Jest Book, in two parts, bound, 4/6
13. Scles Poems, 1/3
14. Think well on't, i/vO§
15. The Christian Economy, 1/10^
Of/aid Carey may be had, Bibles, Tejlaments, Spelling. Boofis,
Primers, Quilts, Ink-Powd.tr, Writing-Paper of i>arious kind*. Hon net
■ Piper, Pocket-Boohs, Scales and Dividers, Ink-Stands } Mejfavi and
' Plavwg Cardr,
■ '
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
OF a LOT in 'His Citv, to he dctignated by impartial judges,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or a MEDAL of that
I value, at the option of the party* will be given by th« Commit'--
1 fioners of the Federal JJuildings, to the perlon who, before the
; fifteenth day of July, 1792, shall produce to them the mod ap
proved PLAN,,if adopted br them, for a CAPI TOL, tobe «.'re&ea
, in this City; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
1 or a MEDAL, tor the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
f thall adopt The building to be of biick, and to contain the sol
! lowing apartments, to wit:
! A Conference Room } fufficicnt to a..-"J
; A Room f... ihe RcprefcnUtive. ( c "»>" loda " theferoom.
) perlons each. ! to be of
« A Lobby or Autichambcr to the latter .' full eleva-
A Senate Room of 1200 fqaare feet area j tion.
An Amichamber or Lobby to the last J
12 Rooms ot 600 fquate feet area each, for Committee Rooms and
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Drawings will be expected of the"ground plats, elevations of
each front, and fe6lions through the building in such directions
as may be necetlaiy to explain the internal ftru&ure; an 3 an esti
mate of the cubic feet of brick-work, compoting the whole mass
of the walls.
March 14, 1792.
State-Strert, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind ot the Stocks of the United on
Commiflion, by Private Comratt, and Public Auction.—
Thofc gentlemen who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
Bofion, March i 1792. (1 av/3 m)
416
Bank of the United States.
THISDAY IS PUBLISHED,
(price 6/6.)
By M A T H E W CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, near Fourth-Street,
The Ladies' Library;
CONTAIN I NG,
tf THE COMMISSIONERS.
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
WASHINGTON, in the Tcn-Un-y -J Columbia
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of thit
value, at tie option of the party, will be given by the Com*
miJlionei sol the Federal to the ptrfon who, heloretln;
fifteenth day of July next, (hall produce to them the most *p.
proved PLAN,it adopted bvthem, for a PRESIDENT'S HODSr',
to be erected in this City. The fire of t'hr building, if the artiit
will attend to it, will of courl'e influence the afp»e£t and outline of
his plan ; and it's destination will point out to him the number,
fiz.e, and distribution of the apartments. It wiil he a recommen
dation of any plan, if the ccntral part of it may be detached and
ere£>ed for the present, with the appcarance of a complete whole,
and be capable of admitting the additional pans, in future, it they
shall be wanting. Drawings will b'e ex petted ol the ground plau,
elevations of each front, and fe£lions through the building, in such
direction* as may be nec< iTary to explain the internal tbuflure,
and an rltimate of the cubic teet ot forick-work. computing the
whole mass of the walls.
ANK' or
March-14, 1702
American Lead Manufadtory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, 4Cb;
HAVE juftnow opened their Lead-War e house, two doors
south of Wataut-ll reel Wharf, adjoin-ing their New Factory—
where they have now made, and leadv for falc, a general a {fort
tnent of SHOT of all fires, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
munhevof experienced Engtifh workmen, they warrant it to he
equal in quality to any manufactured 111 Europe, and at a rcduccd
price from the colt of imported.
They aifo continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. Ail eiders addrelfed to either of the
above FaCt-ories, will be thankfully received, and execnced on the
flio'tcft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, fobciyLabouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encoarage
im nts will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Meffr?. Moses Austin & Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and So i d, on C O M M I S S I O N, bjr
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
CheCnut-Strert, next door to the Hank. Nn. qy.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO RE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOB SON, Book/el/er,-
At the Stone Houfc *n Seconri-Strtct,
HISTORICJL COLLECTIONS-.
Confiding ot state papers, and other authentic documents,
intended as materials for an History of the Unit£4) States
of America,
By EBENEZER HAZARD, a. M.
Member of the American Philqfophicai Society, held at Philadel
phia for promoting ufeful knowledge; and Fellow of the Ame
rican Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The defiap of this compilation being,to prefe;rve ml cxliib:ta
regular ierit.s of the molt important and authentic documents re
lating to the hillory of Amcrica, from its discovery by Columbus
to the present time, it mud be peculiary lntcreftnig to-all who wife
to acquire a thorough knowledge ol this fubjedi,
April 4,
PROPOSALS
I*OR PUBLISHING BY SUBS CK I PTIO N ,
In ihe Common wealth us MaJfuhuJeUs t
A
SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE of the ARTILLERY
in Ihe UNITED STATICS of AMERICA;
O K,
THE YOUNG ARTILLERIST'S POCKET COMPANION
IN TIIR-E* r-ARTS.
Par/i./"CONTAINING the duty and pra&ice of light fold
artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and practice of heavy artillery :■
to which will be added, an extra# of a Treatise on the 01 igin and
principle of Courts-Marti-al, wrote by an experienced Officer in
the liiv, and who did duty as Judge-Advocate in America.
Part 3. Laboratory duty ; containing a great variety of direction*
for composition, and the method of making artitvia! fire-works,
and the formation of ammunition for the different kinds of ord
nance.
WILLIAM STEVENS, Iso
An Officer in the American Artillery through the whole of the
late revolutionj and fincc in the Militia.
CONDITIONS.
This work to br printed on good paper with a handfomc typf,
neatly bound and lettered, in ihree pocket volumes, contain" 1 ;;
upwards of one thousand pages; illuflrated with a great variety
of explanatory plates, executexl by able artills.
The prir.e'to-ftibfcribers, One Dollar each volume—loHon'iub
fcribers, One Trench Crown each volume : and tlm/e who nibfcuoc
for fix setts, Ihail hove a fevemh^r^ffj.
This vfork flaal'l be published as (oon as five hundred copies are
fubferibed for.
Subscription papers will be lodged with the principal Printer
and BooUf«llers in ihc United State? of Afitrrir?. _
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Street,
Scarce
BOOKS,
Which may be fecn every day* untilfwco'clock, t. M.
Among them are the following :
Folio. T TOMER, Xeuophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, So!"-
irl men, Theodores, Virgil, Horace*, Livy, Tacitus,
cuius, Pliriv, Concordantia I.at. Concordantia Gr. Thefautus
ceronis. U Mia Junii and Tremellii. Bible de Martin, Wells sN ap 9 ?
Scjpule—Pliavotiiii—Martinii—Hoftmani Lexica, VofiiiEtym°-
logicon, Antiouit. Ecclef. Britannic®. See. ,
Quarto. Pindar, Cyroptedia, Bentley's Horcce, """"J*" '
Phacdrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Cictronisop. om. '
etoniot, lulms Pol lax, Hedt rici Lexicon, Voffii Art Gram. uv
rii Geographia, Justinian Code, &c. .
Octavo el infra. Homer, Anacrcor, Aristophanes. Long '
Theophrattus, Hcftod, Pocijc minores Gr. liberates,
rious edition,o/Tloracc, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, TibtilMSi
»5, Lucan, Martial. Claudian, VaI.'FI.CCUS, Aufontus, BucM™-.
Sallull, Curtius, Florus, ]uftiir, Val. Maximum, A. Gclhus,, i •
August. Scriptores, English and hrench Tranjlations or '
Claflics, a great variety of Greek. ~d Latin Gramm^j* o *
(£3T Catalogue? may be had of MeflVs. Rice Sc Co. h>" _ _
Markr'-flrect, or of JOHN ;
Of..ber 3 ,. f'P'"'
THE COMMISSIONERS.
The First Volume of
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
I
*
(fo.vm)