, nuxaSM „
[No. 105, of Vol. lII.]
SECOND CONGRESS OF THR UNITED STATES,
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
sylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thouland seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT for altering the times of holdi'ng the
Circuit Courts in certain diftridts of the United
States, and for other purposes.
Section x. it ena&ed by the Senate and Houfc of Rcpre-
X 3 fentatives of the United States of America in
Congrcfs afTemblcd, That from and after the pafling this a£l the
circuit courts in thediftri&s of North-Carolina and Georgia fhail
be held as follows, to wit : In the diftntt of North-Carolina on
the firfl day of June, and on the thirtieth day of November, it
Newbern in the pre Cent and each succeeding year. And all writs
and recogimances returnable and suits and other proceedings that
were continued to the cncuit court for the diftritt of North-Caro
lina on the eighteenth day of June next, fhail now be returned
and held continued to the fame court on the firi\ day of June next.
In the diflrift of Georgia, on the 25th day of April, at Savannah,
and on the eighth day of November at Augufla,in the pre Tent and
each succeeding year, except when any of thole days fhail happen
on a Sunday, in which cafe the court (hall be held on the Monday
following.
Sec. 2. And be it further cna&ed, That the fe (lions of the circuit
courts in the eastern circuit, fhail in the present and every succeed
ing year commence at the times follow ing, that is to fay, in New-
York diftrift on the fifth day of Apul, and the fifth day of Sep
tember. In Connecticut diitritl, on the twenty-fifth day of April
and rhe twenty-fifth day of September. In Massachusetts diftritf,
on the twelfth day of May and the twelfth day of O&ober. In
New-Hajmpfhire diftri&, 011 the twenty-iourth day of May and
the twenty-fourth day of October—and in Rhode-lfland diftri<fl
on the seventh day of June, and the seventh day of November,
except when any of those days fhail happen on a Sunday, and then
.the feflions (hall commence 011 the next day following. And the
felTioni of the circuit court fhail be held in the di(tri£t of Virginia,
at the city of Richmond only. In Vew-Hampihire diftrift, at
Portsmouth and Exeter alternately, beginning at the firft. In
Maffjchufctts diltrict, at Bolton. In Rhode-IHand diftrift, at
Newport and Providence alternately, beginning at the firft. In
Council cut diitr.fci, at li.itiiord and Ncw-Havcn alternately, be
ginning at the last. Aud in New-York, diftri&, at the city of
New-York onlv.
Sec. 3. And be it enacted, That at each session of the supreme
court of ihe United States, or as toon after as mav l>e, the judges
of the lupreme court attending at such fefiion (hall in writing
fubfcribcd with their names (which writing (hall be lodged with
the clei k of the supreme court and fately kept in his office) alligii
to the laid judges refpcftively the circuits which they arc to attend
at the eiifuiug fefLons of the circuit courts; which alignment
/hall he made in such manner that no judge, unlefsby n»s own eon
fent, fhail h«>ve attained to him any circuit which he hatli already
attended mini the lame hath been afterwards attended by every
other of the said judges. Piovided always, That if the public
fei vice or the couvtnience of the judge* thall at anytime, in their
opinion, require a different arrangement, the fame may take
place with the coufent of any four ot the judges ot the supreme
court.
Sf c. 4. And be it further rnafted, That the diftrift conrt for
the ditiriffcof Maine, which, by the ast, intituled "An ast to ef
tahliih the judicial courts of the United Slates," is holden on the
firlt 1 uefday of June, annuallv, at Portland, shall, from and after
the palling of this ast, be holden on the third Tuesday of June, an
nually, any thing in the ast aforefaid to the contrary not with •
itanding : and all writs and recognizances returnable, and suits
and other proceedings, were continued to the diflrift couit
for the dift rift of Maine on the fit ft Tuesday of June next, fhail
now he returnable and held continued to the fame court, 011 the
third Tuesday of June next.
Sec. 5. And be it further enaftcd, That the Hated diftrift
courts for the diftr'.ft of North-Carolina, shall in future, be held
at »ne towns of Newbcrn, Wilmington and EJeuton in rotation,
beginning at Newbern, as the laid court now stands adjourned.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Spgakcr
oj the Houje oj Reprejent tires.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prsjidevt of the United. States,
and Piejident oj the Senate.
APPROVED APRIL THE THIRTEENTH, 1792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
AN ACT, concerning Consuls and Vice-Consuls,
for carrying into full effecft the Convenrion
between the King of the French and the United
States of America, entered jnto for the purpose
of defining and eltablifhing the functions and
privileges of their refpe<sHve Consuls an-d Vice-
Consuls.
T> Eit enacted by the Senate and Hou r e of Representative
°[ the united States of America in Cono;rcf3 afTembled,
.Tnat where, in the seventh article of the said convention, it
is agreed that when there lhaU be no consul or vice-corn ui o:*
tie King of the French, to attend to the f&viiig of the wreck
ot any French veifels ifcranded on the coasts of the United
titer, or that the residence of the said consul or vice-consul
(he not be in: at the place of the wreck) ihall be more distant
I,n the 'aid place than that of the competent judge of the
country, the latter fha'.l immediately proceed to perform th_*
o nee t :erein prescribed; the diftrift jud *e of the United
State *of tie diiiri-it la wlu.'j the wre . k (hall happen, ftull
Saturday, April 28, 1792.
proceed therein, according to the tenor of the said article
And in (uch cales it (hall he the dutv of the officers of the cuf
toms within whose diftrifts such wrecks (hall happen, to give
notice thereof, as soon as may be, to the said jud»e, and to
aid and aflift him to perform the duties hereby affiled to him
The diftriA judges of the United States (hall aifo, within their
re peotave diilricts, be the competent judges, for the purposes
cxprefied in the ninth article of the (aid convention, aud it
Hull be incumbent on them to give aid to the consuls and vice
coniuls of the King of the French, in arresting and securing
deserters iro.n vefleis ot the French nation, according to the
tenor of the said article.
And where, by any article of the said convention, the con
and vice-consuls of the King of the French, are entitled to
the aid of the competent executive officers of the countrv, in
the execution of any precept, the marihals of the United
States, and their deputies, ihall, within their refpeftive dif
trifts, be the competent oHkers, and ihall give their aid ac
cording to the tenor of the ilipulations.
And whenever commitments to the jails of the country ihall
become neceiTary in pursuance of any ilipulation of the said
convention, they ihall be to such jails within the respective
diftrifts as other commitments under the authority of the
United States are by law made.
And for the direction of tlie consuls and vice-consuls of the
United States, in certain cases,
Be it ena&ed by the authority afore said, That they fliall
have right in the ports or places to which they are or may be
severally appointed, of receiving thfe protcfts or declarations,
which such captains, masters, crews, paflengers and merchants,
as are citizens of the United States, may refpe&ively chufe to
make there; and also such as any foreigner may chufe to make
before them relative to tlie personal interest of any citizens of
the United States ; and the copies of the said a<sfcs duly authen
ticated by the said consuls or vice-consuls, under the seal of
their confulales respectively, ihall receive faith in law, equal
ly as their originals would in all courts in the United States.
It fliall be their duty where the laws of the country permit, to
take poflfeffidn of the personal estate left l>y any citizen of tlx?
United States, other than teamen belonging to any ftiip or ves
sel who ihall die within their consulate; leaving there no legal
representative, partner in trade, or trustee by him appointed
to take care of his effects, they ihall inventory the fame with
the aififtance of two merchants of the United States, or for
want of them, of any others at tteir choice; fliall collect the
debts due to the deceased in the country where lie died, and
pay the debts due from his estate which lie £ha:l have there
contracted; fliall fell at au&ion, after reasonable public no
tice, such part of the estate as ihall be of a-periihable nature,
and such further part, if any, as fliall be necelfarv for the pay
ment of his debts, and at the expiration of one year from his
deceaie, the residue; and the balance of the estate they shall
tranOnit to the treasury of the United Stater, to be hoklen in
trust for the legal claimants. But if at any time before such
tranfmimon, the legal representative of the decealed fliail ap
pear and demand his effects in their hands, they shall deliver
them up, being paid their fees, and fliall cease their pro
ceeding-.
For the information of the representative of the deceased,
it ftiall be the duty of the consul or vice-consul, authorized to
proceed as aforefaid in the settlement of his estate, immedi
ately to notify his death in one of the gazettes publiflied in the
consulate, and alio to the Secretary of State, that the fame
may be notified in the state to which the deceased ftiall belong;
and he shall also, as soon as may be, transmit to the Secretary
of State an inventory of the efiiefts of the deceased, taken as
before directed.
And be it further enacted, That the said consuls and vice
con%ls, in cases where ftiips or velTels of the United States
ftiall be stranded on the coasts of their consulates refpeftively,
ftiall, as far as the laws of the country will permit, take pro
per measures, as well for the purpose of saving the said ftiips or
veil'els, their cargoes and appurtenances, as for ltoring an 4 se
curing the effects and merchandize saved, and for taking an in
ventory or inventories thereof; and the merchandize and ef
fects saved, with the inventory or inventories thereof, taken
a? aforefaid, lhall, after deducing therefrom the expense, be
delivered to the owner or owners. Provided, That no consul
or vice-consul ftiall have authority to take pofiefiion of any
such goods, wares, merchandise or other property, when the
master, owner or consignee thereof is present, or capable of
taking pofTeftion of the fame.
yVd be it further enacted, That it ftiall and may be lawful
for consul and vice consul of the United States, to take
and receive the following fees of office for the fer vices which
he shall have performed.
For authenticating under the consular seal, every protest,
declaration, deposition, or other ast, which such captains, raaf
ters, mariners, feainen, paflengers, merchants or others as are
citizens of the United States may refpeftively chufe to make,
the sum of two dollar?.
For the taking into possession, inventorying felling and fi
nally fettling and paying, or transmitting as the ba
lance due on the personal estate left by any citizen of tie U
nited States who (hall die within the limits of his confuiate,
five pe" centum on the gross amount of such estate.
For taking into possession and otherwise proceeding on any
such estate which Jhall be delivered over to the le~ol represent
ative before a final settlement of the fame, as is herein before
directed, two and an hajf per centum on such part delivered
over as shall not be in money, and five per centum on the gross
amount cf the residue.
And it /hall be tie duty of the consul; and vice-confu's c,
the United States, to give receipts for all fees which they (hall
receive by virtue of this act, expressing the particular services
for which they are paid.
And be it further enacted, That in cafe it be found necefTa
ry for the interest of the United States, that a consul or con
fute be appointed to refute on the coast of Barbary, the Preh
dent be authorised to allow an annual falarv, not exceeding
two tlioufand dollars to each person so to be appointed : Pro
vided, That such salary be not allowed to more than one con
sul for any one of the states on the said coast-
417
£ £
[Whole No. 515.]
r u Thaterery corifu! ?.nd : r?-c: n
lui lhail, before they enter on the execution of t'.,eir trusts, or
alrea dv 1,1 the execution of the fame, within one v l ir f ron i
the parting of this ast, or if resident ft. Af;a, wit: in rv.-o vear,.
give bond with such furetics a- (ha'l be approved l.y the S». re
tary ot State, in a ium of not lef* titan two tliouf'and nor more
5 | j. ten t^ dollars, conditioned for the true and faith
ill di(charge of the daties of hi", ortice according to ]?.w, and
alio tor truly accounting for all monies, floods ar.d effect?
which may come into his pofTedion by virtue of this art : an' 1
the (aid bond (hall be lodged in the office of the Secret?.-y of
the Treafurv.
And be it further enacted, That to prevent the mariners'
and seamen, employed in veifels belonging to the citizens of
t le United States, in caies of shipwreck, sickness or captivity,
from differing in foreign ports, it ihall be the duty of the con
ims and vice-consuls respectively, from time to time to pro
vide lor them in the mofl: reasonable manner, at the experifb
oi t.ie United States, fubjedl to such inftru&ions as the Secre
tary of State fliall give r and not exceeding an allowance of
twelve cents to a man per diem ; and all mailers arid com
manders of vcllels belonging to citizens of the United Stater,
and bound to some port of the fame, are hereby required and
enjoined to take such mariners or seamen on beard cf their
ships or veifels, at the request of the fijid confu's or vice-con
fuh rsfpe&ively, and to transport them to the port in the Unit
ed otates to which such ships or veflels may be bound, free of
cost or charge ; but that the said mariners or seamen ihall, if
able, be bound to do duty on board such ships or vefiels accord
ing to their several abilities : Provided, Thr.t no master or
captain of any fliip or veile!, ihall be obliged to take a great
er number thin two men tb every one hundred tons burrhen
of the said ship or vellel, on any one voyage : and if a"y irich
captain or master fliall refufe the fame on the request or ord. r
of the consul or vice-consul, such captain or master (hall foi
feit and pay the sum of thirty dollars for each mariner or iea
man so refuied, to be recovered for the benefit of the TT :iited
States by the said confiii or vice-consul in his own name, in any
court of competent jurHdiftion.
And be it further enacted, That where a ship or vesT •' be
longing to citizens of the United States is fold in a foreign port
or place, the master, unless the crew aje liab'e by t cir cor
tracl or do consent to be there, fha- 1 fend them c k
to the state where they entered on board, or furaifh them v ith
means fufficient for their return, to be afcertamed by the con
sul or vice-consul oi the United States, having juriffiiftion of
the port or place. And in cafe of the masters refufal, the said
consul or vice consul may (if the laws of the land permit it)
cau r e his ship, goods and person to be arretted and held ur.til
he fliall comply with his duty herein.
And be it further enacted, That the fpecifrcation of certain
powers and duties in this ast, to be exercised or performed by
the consuls of the United States, ftiall not be construed to the
exclusion of others resulting from the nature of their appoint
ments, or any treaty or convention under which they may act.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the HovfeoJ Reprcfentatiies.
JOHN ADAMS. Vice-Prejident cj the United States,
and Prefidcnt oj the Senate.
APTROVED APRIL THE FOURTEENTH, 1792.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN HERALD,
Printed in Charleston (S. C.)
AFTER a neglect of upwards of four years, the scheme for
cutting a canal between the Santee and Cooper Rivers,
has been lately resumed; as this scheme will in its confeqHen
ces prove extremely important to the citizens of this slate, I
trust a few reflections on this head will not be thought either
idle or useless.
This fubjeft, on confideratior, natnrally divides it r elf into
two branches. Utility to the public in general, and to the
proprietors in particular.
To be convinced of it? utility to the public, we have only
to infpeft: the map of theCarolinas and the adjacent countries.
The produce of the lands (both in North and South-Careiina)
bordering on Saluda, Enoree, Tyger, Pacolet and Broad Ri
vers, together with those on the Wateree, and the dbTerent
branches on the Catawba, and all the other lcfler rivers and
creeks which have a communication with the Santee, must ne
cefl'arily come to market by this canal; for M ere the boats to
go round by Bull's Bay, (letting aside its dangers, though a
place almost equal to the Sylla and Charibdis of the ancients)
they must add upwards of fourteen days to their journey.—
And is it conceivable that they would refufe to avoid ail this,
when they might do it for the price of a trifling toll on each
boat that pafied through the canal? I fay trifling, for though
25 per cent, is an immense sum to receive as interest, it will
be a very small one when divided into the very large number
of boats which must inevitably pass through it; it will not a
mount to the hundredth part of the sum loft, during the four
teen days delay, by the wages of the hands, the interest of the
amount of the cargo, and the various other lofies they would
sustain
The confluence of the easiness of tranfportingucrops tq
market, would be an amazing increase of population and fetr
tleraents in the back country of this itate, and of N. Cafolia*.
Articles of produce, provifious, tobacco, ikins, &c. &c. wouM
be at almaft one half their (M'efent price; and Charle&gn, from
one of the dearest, would speedily become one of the theapeft
place; upon the continent of America.
If we look forwards a few years, to the time whoa the po
population of the country (which I have already 4hewn this
canal will coatribute not a little to haflen) will be greater, we
mav reasonably hope far a communication with the we/lern
country, by means of the Cherokee or fame other of thaje nu
numerous large rivers which form a junvtion with the Ohio;
that fucli a communication would render Charleston the fu ft
city ia the United States, is too-clear to a4mit of a doubt.—
We may therefore expe& ? that every citizen'of Carol::.!
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prejxdent oj the United States.would wifli well to. and afllfl all in hi? power to carry fueh ?n
undertaking into execution; this I think is requiring no gre:;t
exertion of patriotism or love of our country, provided it will
not be materially prejudicial to his interefl; it becomes, there
fore, every citizen's duty to fubferibe to this scheme; and
whether it will be prejudicial or advantagcou", to o*.rn a share
or shares in this company, ihall now be the objetft of my en
quiry.
To contend that to receive 25 per cent on money, is advan
tageous, would be to the highest degree ridiculous and abl'urd :
the only question is, whether the cutting of this canal is prac
ticable at a reasonable expence ? Colonel Senf y one of the molt
fkilful engineers, perhaps in America, has estimated the ex
pence at 1. which together with the debts of the com
pany amounts in the whole to about 60,0001. this is generally
thought a very high estimation, and perhaps the expence will
prove still lower than is generally thought. In the time of
Charles the 2d, it was in contemplation to join the rivers
Forth and Clyde, in Scotland, by a canal 35 miles long, 4 feet
deep, and 24 wide, and the expence was calculated at 75,000!.
Supposing the ground of the present canal to be similar to the
ground in that, the expense of the prelent, upon the fame cal
culation, would be but 42,85/1. But the ground through which
the present canal will be cut is much more favorable to the
intention, than the ground through which the Seottifti canal
palled. In that cafe too, it was necefTary to carry the canal
over large rivers, by means of aqueduct bridges, built at a ve
ry great expence, and which frequently flood in need of re
pairs. From the great descents too in different parts of it,
numerous locks were requiiite ■* here from the nature of the
ground, no aqueduct bridges will be necefTary, and the equali
ty of the country, will render many locks necdlefs.
But allowing the expense to be 60,0001. the number of boats
which will use this canal, will easily pay 25 per cent on this
sum. The company have divided their stock into a thousand
lhares, each share will therefore amount to 601. the interest of
which will amount to 151. This.share, therefore, when the
canal is compleated, will be worth to an Englifti money-hold
er 3031. the interest in England being 5 per cent; to a Dutch
man it will be worth still more, the interest in Holland being
less : but allowing a holder to receive the interest for whicty
the bank discount, 6 per cent, a share in the intended canal
will be worth 2501. —20 fliillings in 6 per cents, fells at present
for 24s ; fliaresin the canal company, at 2501. will be equally
profitable to the buyer, as if he were to buy il. in 6 per cents,
for 20 shillings, which he can immediately fell for 24 shillings.
The above calculations suppose the canal to be finifhed ;
hut as it will be some time before it will be in a situation to
take toll, something must be deducted on that account; it is
calculated that the canal will be near fix years in preparing,
allowing ten pounds for the interest of the different iol. per
annum payment*, the whole amount of a share will be 701. It
is, however, most probable that the canal will be finifhed in
less time than fix years, consequently the interest will be less ;
but whether it is a less or a greater time, the value of shares
will rife very high the firft three months after the fubfeription
is full. It is a well known fact: to a number of persons in
town, that there are agents here who are dirc&ed to buy up
shares for employers in the northern states; a very little de
lay, therefore, may prevent those who would wifhit, from lie
coming fubferibers. A fubfeription of this kind in Philadel
phia was filled up in one hour.
To the profits arising from the canal, Tome thing is to be ad
ded for the increase of the value of the lands which the com
pany will own on both fides of the canal, and for the ferry they
arc to establish over Santee river, oppoiite the canal; which
will be the most profitable ferry in the state.
Upon the whole, I am of opinion that every peiTon who tho
roughly considers this fiibject, will think that it is such an one
as every good citizen will promote, both in regard to the in
terest of this country and his own.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENT/NFL
Mr. Printer,
IN the Congreflional debate, on the Mint Bill, I took notice
that the qbjeftion of some members to having the head of
the President for the time being, struck on the coin of the
United States, originated in the fear, that at some future pe
riod a person resembling a Nero, a Caligula, or a Hj-.lioga
bulus, might sustain that important oifice. This objection
like many others which proceeded from the fame source, to
me appears weak and deceptive. The choice of a First Ma
gistrate of the United States, originates in THE PEOPLE—
and the man whom they chufe, let him be whom he may, is
deserving every honor that a free people can confer, notwith
standing certain visionaries may think proper to style him a
Nero, or what they please.
Indeed, Mr. Printer, the people are not much indebted to
those members for the opinion they form of their judgment!
Or, do they in the plenitude of their wisdom and discretion,
suppose that they are guardians of the good sense of the com
munity. and every object of the people's choice must firft re
ceive their approbation ?—lt feenm so, or whv do they liifpeft
that t'ie people of America will elett a Caligula for their
President >—My opinion is, that rulers exceed the bounds of
their duty, when they attempt to call in question the propriety
of the choice of the people—and if it could even be fnppofed
that they would ever unite to chufe a person refemblin" a
Nero—that person ought to be honoured and refpefted. °
April 7, ;792. A CITIZEN.
AN enthusiastic French writer, on the folly of dreading a
Counter-Revolution in France, fays—" We want not Generals
to lead 11-—ln such a cause everv province in France will sup
ply its Conoh, its TuRfA-N-, and a glorious band of patriots,
cnu.ous of WASHINGTON'S immortalized character the
ENEMY OF DESPOTISM."
ANECDOTE of THE EMPRESS OF RUSSIA.
WHEN the late Mr. Peyton had finifhed the fix pictures
representing the definition of the Turkish- fleet (in which
Mortimer painted the figures) he gave directions to have them
engraved and requefttd the Empress would permit him the
honour of infcnbing the prints to her—at the fame time Ihe
would communicate to her Ambafiador I.er commands relative
to the language in whic!, the dedication should be written as
He did not: know whether (he would have it in Ruffian or
French. Her reply was memorable :—" Let the dedication
C fp ° ken by the artHt Wh ° P ainted
- C pf™TAN?CDOTF- —A criminal confined in Newgate
for Ufc», being aflced how he liked his situation—replied very
we.l, and JJjmight h.mfelf in a much better condition than his
Governor Huntington; who was continually trem
bling from fear of being turned out of office ; while he was per
fectly Happy in an established provision for life.
On the bill declaring the eijfent of Congreft, to cer-
MR. GILES moved to ftrlke out theflrft clause,
and made sundry remarks on the unequal
operation of a law of Maryland which should
fubjeft the veflels of other States to a tax solely
for the benefit of the port of Baltimore. It is
designed by this bill to raifeafund to be applied
for the removal of a natural obftrutfion in ihe
navigation of that port —and hence he considered
it as a perpetual tax on the citizensof other States
—in this view he obje<sled to it, as a partial im
position—it was mnch complained of, he said, by
the neighboring ports ; he hoped therefore the
clause would be struck out.
Mr. Seney supported the clause ; lie observed
that tho the port of Baltimore would be benefit
ed in the firft instance, yet it was by no means a
partial business, the accommodation and fafety
to shipping refuJting from "it had an important
reference to the commerce of the union ; it con
tributes to the fecuritv of navigation both foreign
and —and the importance of the trade
of ttyat place was fufficiently obvious from the
amokint of the revenue collected there ; the fa
lutaj-y effects of the regulations which have been
adopted and fan&ioned by Congress, he conceiv
ed were fufficient reason for continuing those
regulations.
Mr. Goodhue and Mr. Gerry offered a few re
marks in opposition to the regulation, and said
the provision might be extended with equal pro
priety to various other parts of the union—it
ought not therefore to be taken up except on
general principles.
Mr. Murray defended the regulation of the
bill on general principles—he considered it in the
light of a turnpike road—which though it may
fubjecft the ciiizens to a tax, they are abundantly
compensated by the benefits relulting from the
accommodation thereby provided ; the tonnage
paid is a finall duty, applied expressly to this ob
jecl, and cannot reasonably be considered as an
oppressive or partial tax—and it is paid by those
who are immediately benefited—and is in every
sense reciprocal.
REFLECTOR.
Mi". Miles laid he had seconded the motion for
(Inking out, on a miftnken apprehension—he had
supposed the money to be colletfed was to go in
to the public Treafary, but the remarks of the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Murray) had
undeceived him and he thought his comparison
to a turnpike road was in point ; he then en
larged on this idea, and said he could not conceive
what injury would result from extending the
principle to any part of the union where similar
obftrudtions exist:.
Mr. Sterrett supported the he gave a
Ihort hiltory of the business, and then enlarged
on the general policy of the measure ; it had
been objed-ed to by one gentleman on cofiftitu
tional ground—this was an obje<3ion which he
had not expetfted, but he conceived it totally un
founded, as no partial preference was contended
for, but merely the continuance of a regulation
which had been fanAioned by the general go
vernment, and was clearly within the spirit and
letter of the clause which has reference to the
commerce and navigation of the States ; it is a
regulation of a general nature, that tends ta ihe
advancement of the trade of the union as well
as of that particular port.
Mr. Ames and Mr. Wlii:e both spoke in favor
of the clause—the latter obl'erved that it appear
ed to him perfectly constitutional.
Mr. Giles denied that the benefits resulting
from the regulation were reciprocal ; they are
confined to the town of Baltimore—and if the
clause is agreed to, he said he should move for a
bill to confer similar benefits on all other sea-port
places laboring under natural impediments in
their harbors.
Mr. Hartley supported the clause on general
principles, and said he should advocate a law
which has for its object similar regulations in
refpecft to any other place laboring under the
like difficulties.
Mr. Wadfworth said as an owner of
'ne should give his consent to anv law which pro
vides for removing the obftruct'ions in naviga
tion. NoSuipofitions arc paid with more chear
fnlnefs than those which are designed ro procure
fafety and accommodation ro the shipping.
He enlarged on the advantages which refiilc to
the general interefl both of the merchant and
418
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
FRIDAY, March 9
tain a els of the State of Maryland, frc.
farmer from the (hippingbeing able to per.r.rare
far into the country by the navigable rivers - ft.
milar applications, said he, may be made fro m 0 -
ther quarters, and if they should he would give
his aflent to them.
Mr. Fitzfimons added Tome observations in fa.
vor of the clause—and then the queftioii bein*
put the motion for striking out was negatived.
WEDNESDAY, April 25.
A motion by Mr. Gerry that the house should
meet at 10 o'clock, A. M. was agreed to.
The report of the committee on the petition
of Charles Caldwell and William Robertfon was
read and laid on the table, the report was in fa
vor of the prayer of the petition.
The House took into confederation the amend
ments proposed by the committee of the whole
to the bill providing for calling forth the mili
tia, to execute the laws of the union, fiipprefs in.
furrertions and repel invasions : The House a
greed to fonie and disagreed to others of the
amendments—a clause was added for limiting
the a<fl to two years ; the bill was then ordered
to be engrofled for a third reading.
Mr. Bourne of the committee on enrolled bills
reported that the bill entitled an a& to indemnify
the estate of the late Major-General Greene, for
a bond entered into by him daring the late war,
was examined and found truly enrolled.
The meflage of the Senate proposing a confer,
ence on the disagreeing votes of the two Houses
refpeifting the militia bill was taken into confe
deration—and a committee of conference appoint
ed, confiding of Mr. Clark, Mr. White aud Mr.
Murray.
A meflage from the Senate by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informed the Honfe that they concur in
the resolution for adjourning the sth of May
next.
The House took into confiderationthe amend
ments proposed by the committee of the whole
to the bill to regulate procelles in the Courts of
the United Stares, and to provide for the com
pensation of the officers, jurors and witnesses—
they made lome progress in the business, but,,
without finilhing it, Adjourned.
THURSDAY, April 26.
The bill providing for calling forth the mill,
tia, &c. was brought in engrofled, read the third
time, the blanks filled, and the bill pasted.
Mr. Williamfon of the committee to whom was
referred the report of the Secretary of the Trea
sury refpeifting loft or deltroyed certificates,
brought in a report, in fubitance, that provision
ought to be made in the cafe—but that there
will not probably be time to do it the present
feflion—and therefore propo/es a resolution for
referring the fubjeit to the next session.
A report from the committee to whom the pe-
tition of Lewis and Charles Guaranjai was refer
ed, was read—this report was lengthy, and in
favor of Lewis Guaranjai.
The report on the petition of C. Caldwell and
William llobertfon was referred to the commit
tee of the whole on the bill making further ap
propriations.
TheHoufe proceeded in difcuffirjg the amend
ments to the bill regulating procefles in the Courts
of iljje United States, and finifhed the fame.
Mr. Steele moved an additional clause provid
ing for compensating attornies in the territory
south-west of the Ohio, who may beemployed to
profecnte in behalf of the United States, in the
Courts of North-Carolina, as the attornies of that
State are compensated. This amendment was
not agreed to. _ 0.
A motion to re-co:nniit the bill beingmadeand '
negatived, it was ordered that the bill pass to
the third reading.
Mr. W. Smith moved to take into coniic.era-
tion the report of the committee on the memo
rials of Mr. Ceracchi, the Roman sculptor tin®
motion was seconded, and the question being P
it wis negatived.
The House took into confederation the rflolu-
tions of the committee of the whole relative t"
alterations in the excise law, and agreed to t
fame—a committee was then appointed to pie
pare and report a bill accordingly.
Mr. Heifter moved as an instruction to 1
committee, in fubflance, as follows —rhat t lev
be inflrucfted to report a feparateat't for the (ititics
011 spirits distilled from articles the growth 01
the country ; this motiofi was disagreed to.
In eommittee of the whole 011 the bill to ati
thorize the grant and conveyance of a certain
traift of land to John C. Symmes and his a 001
ates. Mr. B. Bourne in the Chair. The com
mittee reported the bill with one arneni men ,
which being taken into confideraiion v t
House, and further amended, was agtee< to.
The bill was then ordered to be engrolied
third reading. r ,
Mr. Gerry moved that the House should refo.
itfelf into a committee of the whole, 011 nie >
for reducing the rates ofpoftage on new pap l :'
this was seconded by several metnbei s, an
question being put, it was negatived -9 to
(The House took into confnieration the report
of a feleift committee on the petition of C. and J.
Sands—This report proposes that a committee
Jhould be appointed to bring in a bill to confirm
the award or report of certain referees between
the United Stares and Comfort Sands and others.
After fonie debate, the report was at length a
dopted, and Meflrs. Benfoi:, J. Smit li, and Gerry
appointed the committee to prepare the bill.
1m committee of the whole on the hill con
cerning the registering and recording of /hips
or vellels. Mr. Boudinot in the Chair. The
committee made foine progress in (lifcu/ting the
bill, they then roi'e and reported progreli.
In committee of the whole on the bill for re
ducing the rates of portage on newspapers—the
committee made one amendment to ihe bill,
•which being reported to the House was agreed
rn, and the bill ordered to be engroll'ed for a
third reading to-morrow. — By this bill the port
age is reduced to one half the fuin imposed in
the poll-office law
FRIDAY, Amt 27
An engrossed bill to regulat ■ procelTes in the Courts of the
United States, and providing compensations for the officers of
said courts, and for jurors and witnefles, was read the third
time, and passed.
The following bills were also read the third time, and
passed, viz-—A bill to authorize the grant and conveyance of
certain lands to John C. Svmmes, and his afl'ociatc-—and a
bill for reducing the rates of postage 011 newlpapers.
The following bills were twice read, and committed—A bill
to confirm the award of referees between the United States
and certain contra&ors, for supplies and provisions during the
late war and a bill concerning the duties on spirits distilled
within the United States. *
A meilage from the President of the United States by Mr.
Secretary Lear, informed the House that he had this day ap
proved and %neaan ast for indemnifying the eflateof the late
Major-General Nathaniel Greene, for a certain bond entered
into bv him during the late war.
Another meiTage from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Otis,
informed the House that they have palled tie bill providing
for calling forth the militis, &c. and that they recede from
their amendments to the militia bill—also that they have
pal Ted the bill for raifmg a further sum of money for the pro
tection of the frontiers, and for other purposes—with amend
ments. These amendments were read, taken into considera
tion, and agreed to with one amendment
In committee of the whole on the bill entitled an ast for the
relief of persons imprisoned for debt. Mr. Muhlenberg in the
Chair. The tyJl was reported without any amendment.
The House made some progress in diftuffing the bill, anrt
then adjourned till to-morrow.
LONDON, February 24.
HOUSE OF LORDS.
Their Lordfliips went into Westminster Hall,
and proceeded farther in the trial of Warren
Hastings, Esq. and being returned, adjourned
till to-morrow.
HOUSE OF COMMONS
A message was received from the Lords, that
they would proceed farther in the trial of War
ren Hastings, Esq. on Wednesday next.
The bills for repealing the taxes on Female
Servants, on Houses under seven windows, and
on Carts and Waggons, were severally gone
through in committees.
The land and malt tax bills were severally
gone through in committees Adjourned.
The Prince of Wales's stud of horses is to be
put up to public auction on the 12th of March ;
the horses in training, and of all other defcrip
tions, except such as are wanted for his Royal
■Highnefs's convenience, are all to come under
the hammer.
The Prince of Wales will increase his income
atleaft 2j,00c1. a year, by thefale of hisftud, in
the saving of keep of horses and servants.
The insurance offices have refufed further in
fttrances on all the Theatres.
The'Houfe of Commons in a on
Thursday, iMr. Hobart in the chair, took into
confederation the annual bill concerning Ameri
can intercom fe.
Mr. Fox wilhed to know whether he might en
tertaip any hopes of our having a perpetual bill
to regulate our commerce with the United States,
as the reafens upon which the temporary law
had been made now ceased.
Mr. Pitt answered, that his Majefly had lately
appointed a Mini-fter for the purpose of negoci
ation with the Americans, and that it would be
improper to make a permanent eftabliftiment un
til the result of their negociations were known.
London has nearly doubled its size since the
year 1772. ]t then contained 122,930 houies,in
cluding its suburbs—there are at present upwards
of 200,000.
Lad night died at his house in Leicester fields,
in the-6pth year of hit age, Sir Jofliua Reynplds.
Sir Jofliua Reynolds was, on very many accounts,
one of the mod memorable men of his time. He
was the firft Englishman who added the praifeof
the elegant arts to the other glories of this coun
try.
Sir Joflma Reynolds has left iVJifs Palmer, his
niece, residuary legatee; to James Hofwell, Esq.
2col. to seventeen noblemen and great persons,
a pidure eaeh ; and to Mr. Burke, 20001.
Sunday died, Sir Richard Bickerton, Bart
Rear-Admiral of the White.
Cli ARLLSTON, (S. C.) April i 3.
By a letter received in town from the Rock
Landing, we are informed that on information
| of Mr. Bowles's having taken poU'eifion of the
(tore of Melds. Panton, Leslie, and Co. the Indi
ans had dispatched a pa,rty to put him to death,
but were prevented by the Spaniards, who pre
viouflv had sent a veflel with a number of soldi
ers ; on their approach, the boat was Cent ashore
Lo inform Bowles that the veflel was from the
»Well-Indies with goods for him. In consequence
of this information, he came on board, when
they seized hiin and immediately made fail for
St. Augustine, where Mr. Bowles is now confined
in the callle.
Mr. M'Gillivray has wrote to Mr. Seagrove,
that he will he at the Rock Landing about the
beginning of May, with 3000 of the Creeks, in
order to confirm the treaty and run the lines.
We hear that 011 Wednesday last, a dreadful
frefhet (welled the Santee river, such as has not
been known since the year i 771, which raised it
ten feet above the liigheft niarlh land, and has
done inconceivable damage.
Pursuant to notice the fubfeription of the ton
tine bank was opened on Monday the 9th inft.
at the city hall ; when, in sixty three minutes
the fubfeription was completely filled. And on
closing the books at two o'clock, there were sub
scribed an excess of 4770 (hares.
Adjourned
We hear that a dreadful frefliet lately fvvelled
the Congaree and Santee rivers. At Gianby the
water role upwards of thirty feet in thirty hours,
and inundated all the plantations bordering on
the rivers—(weeping in its course negro houses,
mills, indigo vats, fences, and corn lioufes con
taining great quantities of corn. Several ne
groes were unfortunately drowned, and a vast
number of cattle and other (lock lhared a similar
fate. Contee's bridge over Broad river was car
ried away ; and Col. W. Hampton's unfinilhed
bridge at Fridig's ferry, unable to sustain the
great prefl'ure of the water, was also borne down
by the impetuous torrent.
We learn from good authority, that General
M'Gillivray has returned to the Creek Nation,
and that the Indians have very lately given the
strongest aflurances of their disposition for peace.
A great number of them are expeded at the
Rock Landing the 20th instant.
The Stock of the Tontine Bank lately erected in Charleston,
has been increaied from 150,000 to 200,000 dollars, and it is
now Itiled " The Bank of South-Carolina."
In the (hip Delaware, Capt. Art, fix days from Charleftor,,
came the following passengers Thomas Pincknevand
family, Mr. and Mrs. Murphy, Mr. J. B. Smith, Mr. de Dia
donna, Mr. Elliott, Mr. I'elli, Mr. S. Martin, Mr. Fyance,
Mr. T. Gibbs, Mr. S. Gibbc, Mr. Foster, Dr. Stockton, Col.
Sens, Mr. le Saine, Mr. Harrifon, Capt. Mills, Mr. Machux.
On Wednesday the 18 th in ft. the following gentlemen were
admitted to the degree of Bachelor of Art> in the University
of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia, viz. Mcllrs. George S.\V afh
ington, and Laurence Augustine Washington, bothoi Virginia;
George Izard, of Charlelton, South-Carolina ; David Ogden,
of Newark, in New-Jersey; Robert Hazlehurft, John rHazle
hurft, George Henry Keppele, Horc Browse 1 rift, of the city
of Philadelphia ; Samuel Bethel and John "V ates, ot Lancafler
county; and Samuel Jones, of Chester couuty,in Pennsylvania.
These young gentlemen conftitutcd the senior class of the
late College and Academy of Philadelphia; and having finished
their education under the direction of the Profeflors oi that
institution, before the final arrangement, in consequence of its
union with the late University of Pennsylvania, were admitted
to this honorable teftiniony cf their proficiency in literature,
by the Trustees of the pre Pent University of Pennsylvania ;
and the degrees were accordingly conferred in their presence,
by the Rev. Dr. Ewing.
From the ift of Januarv 1792 to the Ift of April following,
there have been exported from Boston, 94,167 gallons of New-
England Rum.
George Gale, Esq. is elefled President of the Baltimore Branch
of the National Bank.
Infallibility in religious mailers has proved the ruin of the Pope
dom Hence let our high-fliers take a leafonable hint, and be
ware, left political infallibility piove a mill-stone at the neck of that
government which they are so anxious to buoy up. If instead of
acknowledging, and correcting their errors, they with inquisito
rial rancor, brand and ferfecute, as a political heretic, every man,
who with republican freedom canvasses their mealures, in conver
sion or in print- they will only d.fguft the citizens of America
ao-ainfl a government that is thus despotically fupporied by the
tyranny of the pen, which is equally galling to
ranny ot the iword.
Two things are clear-that the people adopted, lhat they
support the present government It is the glory of Africans,
that they have done this. The man who would let down the
government, would not only imoair therights of the people and
tarnish their glory (for it is their unrivalled glory to have adopt
ed it) but he would put at rifle their most p.ecious' nl " clh -
What would a Frenchman think of a man who vilifies the Na
tional Assembly and their doings-would he deem fuel^°[ e,n y
proof of his being a good friend to liberty \ on *" r °£"Z'
would he hef,tare to fay, that Inch a man was at heart;a
and an enemy .0 the revolution ? The pcop eoiAmerica have a.
many good reafow to approve their own deliberate wo k, as l ilw
sssxssr&sfitfc&te
and Dill keep in their own hands.
SAVANNAH, April 5
Philadelphia, April 28.
419
Hie ft iedd.» of the people, are the friends of the government
which the people have eiUblifhed —much greater credit it due to
thole cxertiuiu by which the ticw constitution was obtained than
many a.e disposed to allow ; and with refpeft 10 the administra
tion of the government, it may uut be inipopcrto remind those
who fecm d.fpofed to derogate from its mcriis, that 111 addition
to innumerable forefeen difficulties anting from the chaotic fuua
tion in which our affairs wcie found at its commencement—the
majority has been perpetually opposed by a pat ty, who wmle i,ey
are remarkable for their clamour, have never distinguished iheiru
Iclves by the wisdom of any plans which they have offered as l « :>.
llitufcs for what they oppose ; or rather, it may be said lirt-y have
never proposed ar.y.
Public exigencies prelling—
Public debt's a public blefling !
But fecure> there nothing woifc is;
Public debts are public curses.'
To get in debt is undoubtedly one of the " Rights of Man"—
it is not a new do&rine that never to pay is anothei—hence the rail
ing against the funding system.
It is a poor compliment on the judgment of the people, and a
republican government, to find fault with the decisions of the
majority.
It is a republican sentiment that the people are the obligees,
when public irufts are faithfully executed.—li is a monarchical
trail in politics, when public officers are obliged to coofider their
own interest and that of the people as aiftintf.
MR. FEN NO,
OUR fnends are zealous again ft Congress—They fay govern
ment is not a thing to be supported and carried through—What
is it good for but to be pulled to pieces ?—A revolution is a good
thing. The more of a good thing the better. Yours at lei
sure, A COMMITTEE OF CORRESPONDENCE.
Died, in this city, in the 56th year of his age, Col. Persifor
Fraser—in whose death the public fuifruns the loss of a very
valuable citizen.
Post-Office, Philadelphia, April 27, 1792.
(KT' Letters for the British Packet Dafiiwood, Caot. Roberts,
for Falmouth, (via Halifax) will be received at this Office until
Tuesday morning the ift of May, at 8 o'clock.
%* The Letter Bags of the ftiips Harmony and William
Penn, for London, will be taken from the Poffc-Ofiice this even
ing at 7 o'clock.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVALS AT the PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Camilla, Williams,
Pallas, Wafion,
Sophia, Kerr,
Delaware, Art,
Molly, Pitt,
Apollo, Billings,
Barque Amsterdam Packet, Rice,
Brig Swallow C.heefeman,
Dunham,
Sloop Dove,
N. Y. Packet, Corvin,
Schooner Eagle, Spriggs,
Eunice, ,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
Final Settlements, - - iB/6
Half shares Bank U. S. 45 per ccnt. premium
Shares Bank North-America, 15 ditto.
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Indents,
WANTED, tile First. Volume of the Gazette of the
United States—for which Six Dollars will be paid by
the Editor.
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC.)
THE SUBSCRIBER HATH OPENED A
House of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES,
In that commodious House lately occupied by Thomas Beafe, Elq.
Mayor of this Town.
He has furniftied himfelt with a stock of the bed Liquors, and
will use every exertion 10 give fatistaftion by procuring, in their
season, the best of every fpccies of provision, and having the fame
served up in the mod neat and elegant manner.
[lawiftjul.] GEORGE H. LEIGH.
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY VIRTUE of an order from John Holmes, Edmund"
Weathekby and Benjamin Holmes, Efqrs. Judgesof
the Couit of Common Pleas for the Count) of Salem, dircfting
us to make Sale of so much of the Lands of Benjamin Cripps,
in the Township of Manington, in the County ol Salem aforefaid,
as will defray the expences attending the division or paitition of
Lands held 111 common between Abraham Hkwling and the
aforefaid Benjamin Cripps, agieeably to an aH of Assembly, See.
In purfuanceof the above order, will be Sold by public Vendue,
a tra£l or piece of Land (or as much thereof as will defray the
above expences) being part of the above, situate and bounded by
Lands of Job Shreevc, the aforefaid Abraham Hewlings, and
others, on seventh day 26th of May next, 179 2- At bouf<;
of Henry Sparks, Inn-keeper in Salem aforefaid—by
WILLIAM GOODWIN,)
JOHN WISTAR and S- Commiflioners.
THOMAS CLEMENT, )
20tk April, 179®
Published this day, and to be fold by
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
Bookseller, No. 54, Second-ftreet,South—and by all ihe principal
Bookfelleis in Philadelphia- Price f;hs of a Dollar,
FROCEEDINGS in the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
of the United States of AMERICA,
Refpefting the
CONTESTED ELECTION
For the Eaftem Diftrifl of the Stat-: of
GEORGIA.
CONTAINING the petition of General James Jackson,
the eliflion of General Anthony Wayne, and ihe proceedings
relative to the Resolutions diieaing the mode of conducing the
Trial • with a iketch of ihe debaies from ilie commencement to
ihe end of the business ; including the speeches of the parties, a
sketch of Mr Lewis's defence, council for Geneiai Wayne, and
the concluding speech of GeneVal Jackson, lorwhich he received
the applause of the auditors: also, the fubfcqUent'proceedingsof
the House refpefling his to a feat after the elcftion of the lu
ting member had been declared i»«*»)•
Together with a SUPPLEhEhT,
Containing a fummarv of the proceedings of the Legislature of
Gwittia, reiaiive to ihe'linpeachment of Judge OJlornts, taken
frcm ihe papers lent under the seal of the Slatr, and producedtri
Congtefs by Mr. Baldwin, which v.cre rejefled.
Dublin
Lilbon
Bristol
Cliarlefton
Lisbon
do.
New-York
Boston
do.
New-York
Antigua
New-Pro vidence
»*/3
»»/ 9
Wa
4 W - F P-GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, March 24, 1792.
PROPOSALS for carrying the Mails of the United States, on
the following pod roads in South-Carolina and Georgia, will
be received at the Po[i-Office in Chan'efion, urtiil the full day ol
June next.
In South-Carolina
1. From State/burg to Charlejlo'n, once a week—The mail to
leave Statefburg ever) Monday morning at nine o'clock, or other
■wifc, in half an honr alter the arrival of the northern mail ; and
arrive in Charleston the next day at four o'clock in the aftcriroon.
Returning, to leave Charleston every Friday at three o'clock in tiic
afternoon, and anive at Stateiburg the next Sunday, at nine in tRe
morning.
2. From Charleston to George-town, once in two weeks—The
mart to leave Charleston every other Tuesday, at five o'clock in
the afternoon (or other wife in one hour after the arrival of the
mail from Stateiburg) and arrive at George-town the next day, at
Jtven in the afternoon. Returning, to leave George-town the next
morning at four o'clock, and arrive at Charleston the following
day (Friday) at eight in the morning.
3. From Charlejion to Savannah, once in two weeks—The mail
to leave Charleston every other Friday, at nine o'clock in the
morning, and arrive at Savannah the next Sunday, at ten o'clock
In the forenoon. Returning y to leave Savannah the fame day, at
two o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Charleston the next
Tuesday at Jour in the afternoon.
In Georcia
4. From Augujla to Wafhingfon (in Wilkes county).thence round
by Greenborough, the Gieat Falls of Ogcchee and Georger-town to du*
gujla—once in two weiks. The mail to leave AuguQa every o
ther Thursday, at four o'clock in the morning, arrive at Wash
ington the fame day, and complete the circuit on the third day,
getting back to Augusta by fix o'clock in the evening of Saturday.
5. From Savannah to Newport Bridge and Sunbury, once in two
■weeks. The mail to leave Savannah every other Friday at one
o'clock in the afternoon (or in one hour after the arrival of the
northern mail) and arrive at Sunbury on the next dav at noon.
Returning, to leave Sunbury the next Monday at four o'clock in
the morning, and arrive at Savannah the fame day, at fix in the
afternoon.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, March 30, 1792.
PROPOSALS will be received at this Office until the firft day
of June next,for carrying the Mails of the United States on
the following post roads :
In North-Carolina, orce in two weeks.
1. From Halifax by Warrington, Hill/borough, and Salem to Salif
lury. The mail to leave Halifax every other Thuifday at four
o'clock in the morning, deliver the mails at all the poft-ofTices
from tlrcnce to Salisbury at such times as rtiall be found moll be
neficial to the public ; and return with the mails from all thofc
poft-officcs, so as to arrive at Halifax at fix o'clock in the evening
of the Tuesday next preceding the Thursday when it is again to
leave Halifax.
2. From Halifax, by BluntJvillt, Williamjlon and Baileys, to Ply
mouth. The mail to leave Halifax every other Thursday at four
o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Plymouth the next morning
at right o'clock ; leave Pivmouth the fame day, and arrive ;t
Halifax the day after, at fix in the evening.
3. From Edenton by Hertford, Nixonton % Sawyer's Fern, in
Camdencounty, to Indiantown, in Currituck, county. The mail
to leave Edenton every other Saturday at four o'clock in the
morning, arrive at Indian-town that night, and return to Edenton
the next Monday at Jix in the evening:.
In ViRCINIA
4. From Freiericiflurg to Port Roy*!, Tappahannock, Urlanvn.
thcnce across the Rappahannock to Northumberland Court-Houfe.
to Kin/alt on Yeoiomico, Wejimorehni Court-Hovjc, and led.
Jlorni, to Freiericifiurg, once a week. The mail to leave Fre
derickfburg every Friday at five o'clock in tho morning, and
making the tour above oefctibed, return to Freder ckfburgh on
the next Thursday at noon. •
5. From Alexandria to Winckejlcr, once a week. The mail to
leave Alexandria every Thursday at noon, and arrive at Winches
ter the next Saturday, at five o'clock in the afternoon; and re
turning, to leave Winchester every Monday, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon, and reach Alexandria the next Wedtiefday, by Jive in
the afternoon.
6. Fmm Winchejier to Staunton, once a week. The mail to
leave Winchrfler every Monday, a: eleven o'clock in the forenoon,
and arrive at Staunton the next Wednesday by /?;•» in the after
noon ; and returning, to leave Staunton every Thursday at eleven
o'clock in the forenoon, and arrive at Winchester the next Satur
dav hv Jive in the afternoon.
U Virginia, the Territory South of the Ohio and
Kzntuckev
7. From Staunton by Lexington, Tincajlle, Montgomery Court House,
Wythe Court House, and Abingdon, to 'Hawkins Court House, in the
Territory South of the River Ohio, once in two weeks. The
mail to leave Staunton every other Thursday, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon, and arrive at Hawkins Court House the next Wednes
day at five o'clock in the afternoon ; and returning, to leave Haw.
kins Court House the next morning at five o'clock, and arrive at
Staunton the week following, on Wednesday at noon.
8. From Hawkins Court House in Danvi/le in Kentuckey, once in
two weeks. The mail lo leave Hawkins Court House every other
Thursday, at fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Danville
the next Tuesday at five o'clock in the afternoon ; and returning
to leave Danville the Friday following at fix o'clock in the tnorii.'
mg, and arrive at Hawkins Court House the next Wednesday by
noon. , ' '
NbTE.—As the condition of the country between Hawkins
Court House and Danville may render the regular carriage of the
mail impra&icablc, the persons who shall offer to contiatl, will
slate in their propofais the times and manner in which they think
the carriage of thai mail mod eligible and practicable, so that it
be not oftener inan once in two iMeks, nor lels Irequi nt than once
in jour weeks, as far as such a degree of regularity is attainable
and Date th? terms on which they will so cany it : or, if they
thi.:k it practicable, to carry this mail regularly once in two
weeks (going and returning) or once in four wicks; ihey will'
diibnftly fiate the terms on which they will cany it for one De.
nod and for the other. "
J': the State of Delaware tutd Vr r gin ia .
q. From Wilmington by (ar/t unit's Bridve and Duck
Creek to Dover, once a week. The mail to leave"Wilmington
every Monday at three o'clock in the afternoon, and arr vc
cr on 1 uefday by five in the afternoon— returning, to leave Dover
on \\ edneftfav by Jive o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Wil
mir.gton by Jix in the evening, or by nine o'clock on Thurfdav
morning. From Dover to the F.ajlern Shore of Vnrwia and
AO,/olh, once in two weeks. The mail to leave Dover every o
t.ier \\ ednelday, at live o'clock 111 the morning, pass Datrlhrouah
• tow-Ltll. Acmac Court Ihufe, and arrive at Northampton
Hovfe the following Saturday by five o'clock in the alter
noon, proceed across the ferry to Notfolk the n<"<i day, and re
turn to Northampton Court House the following Tucfday by five
o .lock in the afternoon ; leave Northampton Court Houle on
\edne day at five o clock morning, and anive at Dover
the next Saturday by Jive in the evening.
JJ C P r "Pofals for earning this mail, will
re "leafed to state the terms on which they u ,11 catry it once in
c~jc' r y zcec'i. ' ; c 111
In Maryland.
10. From F.tijlon (on the Eattern Shore) to Vienna, ond thence
by Salijbury, lo Snow Hilt,once a week. The mail to leave liaflon
on Wednesday, at eleven o'clock in the forenoon, and arrive the
next day at Snow Hill by two in ihe afternoon. Returning, to
leave Sndw Hill on Friday morning at fix, and arrive at liaßon
on Saturday t»v noon.
11. From Annapolis to Upper Mstthorough, Pijcataiva, rort To
bacco, Alien's Frejh, Newport, Chaptico, and Leonard-town, once a
week. The man to leave Annapolis on Tuesday, at fix o'clock in
the morning, reach Pifcata.wa that evening,and arrive at Leoijard
towii on Wednesday evening, or by nine o'clock on Thursday
morning. Returning, to have Leonard-town on Thursday, at
three in i-he afternoon, and arrive tft Annapolis on Saturday, at
Jive in the afternoon.
12. From Bultimoreby Frederick-town and Sharp/burg,to Hager's
ttwn., and thence to CJiamberlburg, once a week. The mail to
leave Baltimore on Saturday, at three o'clock in the afternoon, and
arrive at Chamberfburg the next Monday by J even in the evening,
or on Tu May by Jeven m the morning. Returning, to leave
Chamber foil r g on Wedaefdav morning at five o'clock, and ai
livc at Baltimore on Friday by four in the afternoon.
In the States oj Pf. nss ylva ni a , N e w-J s. rsl y and N ev-.York.
13. From Philadelphia to Bethlehem, once a week. The inail to
leave Philadelphia onThtirfday by fix o'clock in the morning, and
arrive at Bethlehem on Friday by nine in the morning. Return
irg, to leave Bethlehem on Monday by Jix in the morning, and
arrive in Philadelphia by nine on Tuelday morning.
14. From Betfilehem to Reading, once a week. The mail to
leave Bethlehem on Friday, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, and
arrive at Reading by eight on Saturday morning. Returning,lo
leave Reading at nine o'clock the fame morning, and airive at
Bethlehem byjfjeven in the evening.
15. From Refuting by Ilarrijburg, to Carlijle, once a week. The
mail to leave Reading or Friday momig by lix o'clock, arrive 3t
Carliflc the next day by Jeven in the evening. Returning, to leave
Carlisle on Monday morning at fix o'clock, and arrive at Harris,
burg by noon ; leave Harriiburg the ne;ct Wcdncfdav by fix
o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Reading by Jix on Thursday
evening.
16. From Bethlehem by Ed/lon and Sujfex Court Ifouje, to GoJhcn\
once a week. The mail to leave Bethlehem every Fsida.y at ten
o'-lock the forenoon, and arrivf at Golbcn by nine o'clock the
next Mondav morning. Returning, to leave Gofhen the follow
,ni? Wednesday at fix o'clock in the morning, and ar: ive at Beth
lehem by nine o'clock the next Friday morning.
17. Fi om Go/hen by Ward's Bridge and Kingjlon to Rhinebeck,
onre a week. The piaij to leave Gofhen on Wcdnefday morning,
at fu o'clock, and arrive at Rhinebeck on Thursday forenoon by
eleven. Returning, leave Rhinebeck the fame day by noon, and
arrive at Gofhen on Friday evening by fix.
18. From Elizabeth-town or Newark to Morris-town and Sussex
Court Hpuje, once a week; The mail to leave Elizabeth-town or
Newark on Wednefdav at noon,and arrive at SufTex Court House
on 1 hurfday by two o'clock in the afternoon. Returning, to leave
SufTex Court House on the !tmc day at three in the afternoon, and
arrive at Elizabeth-town or Newark on Friday, by fix in the
evening.
19. From JVoodl ridge to 4mboy, on Tuefdav, Thursday, and
Saturday, or every day in the week, Sunday excepted. The per
sons disposed to contractor the cairiageof this mail, to state the
different terms on which they will thus carry it, three or fix times
a well. The hours of arrival and departure to corrcfpond with
t'ie arrivals of th mail from Philadelphia at Woodbridge.
20. From Philadelphia, b? Salem to Bridgetown, once a week.
The mail to leave Philadelphia every Thin fday at three o'clock in
the afternoon, and arrive at Bridgetown on Saturday by /even in
the morning. Returning, to leave Bridgetown on Monday by four
in the afternoon, and arrive at Philadelphia on Wcdnefday by
e git in the morning.
In the States of New-York WVeruobt,
21. From Albany by SchenaSady to Connajorharrie, once a week.
The mail' to Albany every Thurlday at fix o'clock in the
morning, and airive at Cmnajorharrie on Friday by ten in the
forenoon ; leave Connajorharrie the fame day at one in the after
noon, and return to Albany the next day by five in the afternoon.
92 From Albany (by Troy and Lan/mghurg) to Bennington, Man
cnefter and Rutland, onc-e a week. The mail to leave Albany every
1 hurfday at fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Bennington
the fame day at four in the after»oon ; to leave Bennington on Sa
turday at/x in the morning, and proceed to Manchcfter and Rut
land : get back to Brnnington the next 'I'uclday, and arrive at
Albany by Wednesday noon.
23. From Rutland to Burlington on Lake Champlain, once in
two weeks. The mail to leave Rutlaud on every other Monday
a; fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Burlington on Tuef
d*y at noon : leave Burlington on Wednesday at fix in the morn
i ig, and arrive at Rutland the next day by noon.
The persons who offer proposals for the carriage of this
mail, will be pleased to (tale the terms on which they will carry
it once a xoeek.
On Connecticut River
S4. From Springfield in MafTachufetts, by to Brat,
tleboiough in Vermont, once a week. The mall to leave Spring
field every Monday at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at
Brattleborough the next day atJ,ve in the afternoon : leave Krat
tleborough the next Saturday at noon,and arrive at Springfield the
next Monday by nine in the morning.
2,5. From Hratlleborough, by Charlejhn and H'indfar, to tlivnr'r
in New-HampOiire, once a week. The mail to I'c vc Brr.ttlebo.
rough every Wednesday at five o'clock in the morning, and reach
Wind for by five in the afternoon : leave it on Thursday at „ne
o'clock in the afternoon, enrt reach Hanover atJice: Itave Hano
ver at five o'clock on Friday morning, and arrive at Brattlebo
lough by eleven o'clock on Saturday forenoon.
26. From Springfield in Maflachufctts, by Stodbridge to Kinder
hook in the State of New-York, once a week. The mail hi lr-ve
Springfield cveiy Monday at noon, arrive at Stockbrioge t'ne next
day by noon, and at Kinderhook ou Wednesday by noon: to
leave Kinderhook on Thursday at noon, and return to Springfield
by the next Monday at nine in the morning.
27. From New-York to Hartford in the state of Connefliciit
through White Plains, North-Caftlr, Salem, Pound ridge, Ridge
f.e'd,, Danburyf, Newtown, Ncw-Mtlford, Litchfield, Hamilton
and Farmtr.gton, once a week. The mail to leave New-York on
Thursday at lour o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Hartford
by eight o'clock in the morning of the next Monday. Return,ng
to leave Ilariiord the fame Mondayatten o'clock in the forenoon
and arrive at New-York, by eight o'clock in the morning of the
next Thutlday. 0
* As uls fuppolcd that the palling of the mail through some
other towns, or part of this upper route, from New-York lo
Hartford, may he more cxienfivelv iifeful, the pcrfons inclined to
contract Tor tlie carriage of it, will be plcafed to make two diftmcl
piopofcls; one for the route above dcfcribed ; the other wi'h
luch deviations as they think will be moll ufclul to the inhabi
tants ; but in both cases to pass through Dcinbuii and Litchjuld.
In Massachusetts and Rhodi-Is l a nd.
28. From Salon to Gtmcrjtcr, twin- a week. The mail to leave
(j'oucctter every Monday and Thursday morning at fix o'clock
and arrive at Salem by nine. Returning, to leave Salem everv
Vcdnefday and Saturday by two in the afternoon, and arrive at
Cjloucciter the fame day by five.
C ' If a fhge-waggon runs oftener, or on any other days, he
ween Sa.em and Gtoucefter, «ny*perforin disposed to comratt lor
tne carriage of the mail, may conform their proposals to the ufua
al g.i)s and hours of the departure and anivalofthe ftagc-waggon.
420
, o c^ t f
carry this mail, are dcfired to make three different fofnafj], .
dating the terms on which tlicy will carry it twice a wet h. '
times a week, and eviry day in the week, Sunday excepted •
titrfes of departure and arrival to correfpo«d with the times of the
arnva] and departure of the stage-waggons usually palßo - bctwtc
Bcjion and Sa/em.
30. From Salem to Pojlon, everv dav in the week, S.mday ex
cepted ; the hours of departure and arrival to conform to the uffi
hours of the departure and arrival of the ftage-v.aggond.wk 1 <,<[ lnn
bet ween those two plaices. ; 1 ' S
31. From Eojlov, by P/ymoatk, to Btirnjlablc, once a w«k.
mail to leave Bolton on Thurfdav by seven o'tlort hi the inqrn
ins, and arrive a: lijinfiablc by five o'clock in the afternoon on
Friday. Reluming, to leave BarnftaWe on Monday by f (Vf|V
o'clock in the morning, aud arrive at Ballon oo Tutlday bv (at
in the afteruoon. 9 J
32. From Bojjcn to Tcmton, once a week. The mail t0 | ( , J| , e
Bolton on Thurfdav by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive ai
Taunton by two o'clock in the afternoon. Return,,,,, |„ | r3vp
Taunton on TuclVlay by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at-
Bolton by four in the afternoon.
33 Fr <> m Ta-nio'), through Warren and Biijlol, to Newport
once a week. The mail to leave Taunton on Thuifdav at l „ l . c '
o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Newport on Friday hv
noon. R, turning, to leave Newport on Monday by ei.rht o'clock,
in the morning, and arrive at Taunton by five in the afternoon
34. From Taunton to New-Bedford, once a week. The mail t 0
leave Taunton on Thursday at three o'clock in the afternoon, and
arrive at New.Bedford 011 Friday by noon. Returning, to'leave
New-Bedford on Monday by nine o'clock in the morning, and
arrive at Taunton by fine in the afternoon.
35- ■ Prions offering proposals for carrying the three last ma jj s
(No. 32, 33, 34,) will be pleased to state the terms on which they
will carry the mail from Bc/hn through Taunton to Newport, and
the mail from Roflon through Taunton to A'jai-Btijori, and back to
Dolfnn at the times abovementioned.
36. F<«m Previdrnce to WorcefltT, onct a week. The mail 10
leave Providence on Wednesday by fix o'clock in the morning
and arrive at Worccfter by fix in the eveniog. Returning, 10 leave
Worcf 3cr on Monday by fix in the morning, and arrive at PlO
- by fix in the evening.
In N e w-Ha mtsh 1r r.
37. From Port/mouth by Exeter to fotcord, once a week. Tilt
mail to le»ve Pmtfmouth every Monday morning at fix o'clock
arrive at Exeter by mrte; proceed to Concord, and return to Partfl
mouth by Jive o'clock the next Wednelday afternoon.
*»* The petfons offering to comraft for this road, are defiied
also to ftatc the terms on which they will carry the mail from
r.xetcrto Concord and back, once a week ; leaving Exererevrrv
Monday at ten o'clock in the morning, reaching Concord the next
Hay by noon, and reiurning to Exeter 011 Wednesday by too in
the afiernqon.
38. From Cotirord (by Plymouth and Orjord) to Hmorer, once in
twoo weeks. The mail to'leave Concord every other Wednesday
by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Hanover the next day
by/re in the afternoon : to leave Hanover on Friday at fix o'clock'
in the morning, and returning by ihe new road, arrive at Concord
on Saturday by five in the afiernnnn.
39* For carrying Ihe mail from (mcerd to Hanover, by the route
above described, once in everv week.
*' 40. For carrying the fame mail (from Concord to Hanover)bv
the ti'-w road, boih ,md reluming, once in evtiy week, and
once in two wetks.
*+* The terms lor carrying the mail between Concord and Ha
nover, in the four different ways here mentioned, to be diflintlly
(tared.
As some of these mails may be conveniently carried in
flage-waggont, pcrfons inclined to contrail will be pWafed to dale
the terms 011 which thev will so cany any of ihem, as well as die
terms on which they will carry them on horleback.
Not e i. If hereafter it (nould appear that any other times for
the arrival and depaiture of the mails would be more convenient
and ufeful ihan those above proposed, alterations may accoiiiingly
be made.
2. For every hour's delav in arriving after the times prefciibed
in any contra£l, the contractor to forfeit one dollar; and for the
non-performance of a tiio, double the ftim which the value of
one trip (hall bear to the value of ihe whole number of trips to be
pci formed.
3. 1 he contracts to continue in force until the firft day of
June, 1794.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, Pejlmajltr-Giiura!.
Bank of the United States.
March 21, 179 a.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby arc, au
thonfed to compleat their Shares by payment at any ume
before the periods required by the law of incorporation.
Resolved, That each Share so compleatcd, shall be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits of the Bar.K,f:om and after the firifc
davofthe month next succeeding the day of compleating such
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's iutcrefl udoii the Pub
lic Debt transferred to compleat any Share as aforcfaid, as fliall
hjfve accrued bclorc the fii ft day of the month next fuctteding the
completion of such Share, lhall.be received by the liai;k, aud paid
to the persons who shall have transferred the fame.
By oider of the Prtfident aud Direflors,
(cpttftj) JOHN KEAN, Coftirr.
At a meeting ok the Directors of the Bank, op
the United States, Makch 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Discount and Dcpofit he
authorised to receive of Stockholders the 3d and 4»'» Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock of the liiuk, ana
that the Cafhieis of the said offices gwe duplicate rece:ptsfor Uic
payments, oneol which icceipts, accompamcd with cvidcncc ot a
transfer of public debt fufficient to complete laid fhares,upou
inw produced at the Bank, shall entitle such Stockholders t<> i<r
tificatcsfor full shares, and to all the benefits of »he Refo!utions
of the Board ofDireftors pafied the 2tft inlUnt, relative to <-OiTi
pleting iharcs by payment at any time before the periods rcqunc
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the President and Dire&ois.
7 JOHN KEAN, Cafiter.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, March 31,'79»-
NOTICE is herebv sucn, That the inrerell for Hie qujiiei,
ending this day,oll the FUNDED DEBT ot the ta,c j
(landing oil the books of theTieafury, and of the Comm'lM"''
Loans for this State, will be paid at the Bank of the brtitf
Certificate Loft.
T T TAS Loft, on the 17th ;nft. a CERTIFICATE, u ™^ rC (
vV ,59.406, granted to Lewis Nichola, foi t e ui
24-Q°th Dollars, dated the id of May, 1784, an' ,l ~'',
John Pibrck, Esq. marked with the letter /.--- _pj
foutio the fame, and will renirii it to CleMent in'' l
Notary Public, at No. 62, in Front-ftrect, Jouth ol w
or to the Printer of this p«ipsr, (ball be generouily rewai
April 18, 1792. —
(fjT The joilßSALefUic THIRD SESSIONO/ titS^ 41 '
oj the UNITED STATES, mny be h«4oJ tkt Ed'fer htr'oj-
I