' l | ' i•' "i.'t ' 1 "> 1- . +■ f■"f ". ■ ,■ n '.mi iV ', .- i|t v .1,,.!. .. ■ 1.,---*.-*-1 —i, * i'r m.i '" f 1 1■ | " ■*. |m ji ilwi'i
A NAIIQMAL I'Al'kß, I J 11) Wt, f>M ,VN[) SATI>RJ>A; ; 'Si B Y JOHS.FF.MifO, .No. 6o; pfj ll ADJ?I>HI A
[No. 42, of Vol. IV.]
MAX DAW- Al»'£HTm.R.
(R'M <'
CuliiMii fro** ' OaciU ofth:
s-pa£ di >:nii>tion of the clei kt'oip <>t foreign
1 u,)a« Mr. frenewt i. thu
ncxt circv.niftiPice.' irt the political conduct of
Mr. |_■ rfer'on, vl'ich («n •• •> '.-ncc t» . •
American. U|Mn tWi point the t'uH force oi
hi', .renius appeal to 'me bwu ciillocK-J, hi
pifli'oiu roused, a»J In; imagination to
diipUved an unu'gal degree oi brilha.icy, Tlv
apooi ltraent of thft'geiitlci»an to tl.at station
hashed deemed an ast of ftich euonni! , that,
like tin original !in of our liHt parents itVtirdu
never be sxpiatwl. Deductions too, equally
ftraive and wonderful, have been 4r»\*rf. from
it." The i-njmutwa of a m.-v bi-ea.-h of duty
in'tYii reflect wn a char;-? too mild »r.d leni
ent for th/fJlwed enormity of the critic. The
hii-iible rpte«|etk O.lice, with any deri-mto:it
fomc,ftr'thc " public welfare, it has been i.e
lied oil, even a! a proof of his lioftifity to the
gw«nment itie'f. Happdy however the tri
bunal to whom the appeal has been made, will
be neither so fanciful nor indignant. Thole
malign and unfriendly palfiorv, which prpy on
the itfindof the writer, are entirely personal,
and may be traced to personal motives. Bilt it
Is not my dofire at prefttft, in purfuir of thsf'e
doughty combatants, to make incurfioils into
the epamy's ..territory, fopign cojiqueft i:
OOt'.the object of tl-i? ciw... fh •e ul .lator; of
f icnift of the im'perja.l cajife, wlie
ttrir't'fiey dif/nd ftby qiielWoirAle feeuilstioli,i;
of moreopin an<explicit»v6w:iri<ffft<fir fait i,
may for a time relt in repoft. A ipore humble
piyp9ie, a aiere doineftic defence of the per.
faai tig'lts, tile vindicntiow of .the weilrearn
ed fain: of a vlrfaous citizen, cgjipft
ye'rit and'mafic\oaWTanJ«;r«, is tile fob' object
of the prefenf undertaking.
Th® propriety of ever? act, In p i tbl: c a?
as private life, m'ifl.be feanned by forae Icnov/iv
and fixed principles. \i it l£atuh the left of
tbet>t".e aepiit w.il,', i.. proportion to.jts relaj
tive importance, merit well of his country
and on 'the cqnfraty/i'f by thi'sVAeafare it mould)
lie foam' 3efcftivcJ v he xvlinri the dfcjfee ' en
titled toirepriiisilfion. Tlie'c«ire in general so
plain and »byio(j-., and especially io tel»tion to
thf duties,th2,fej(ei;aldpj>artnients of our go
vernment, (hat wheq any ast pfa public ser
vant fiiM be if facts are like wife
submitted, the unfophifticat'ed common sense of
every citizen ,mav immediately' drVange it in
tiie scale to sv'iic'liti belongs.'
The dtfp?nf£siop to office, t}vo' among the
Ijkewife among lljqmoft lim
ple of public-duties'. One iolftary principle go
verijs.jyery : " That the man appointed
to an itsce fliirfVi ifrcproachabte' lit point ot
qioraiity jan.l in other. refpafts wfH qualified to
djiibarge its dutiei.with credit to . huu%lT andi
advantage"to Ms country.*' T'.ie piyfl ordma
ry capacity ikay comprehend tlji principle, and
know what Ihouid be done. Talents oi the
more elevated kind are only requisite to eligible,
tbnfe truftpesof this,portion of clio public con
fidence, in the range, of faculties, tp
diftineuilh betwee i nien, acd to . feleft those
bell tuifed'for 'the fthtioris to Ihallbe
dediaed. To appl", in 'li irt, the moit cspeiii
ent means far tlie attiiinment of given ends.
If appointments, drain the highffft to the lowest
gfade, f' 13 t?H/)f; enquiry fciy this cri
terion, tbofe,who confer tjienj c.on teut
ed : tliey have notning to apprebttia | om.th4
reproach of their own conftienbes, or the ceu
fure oi'the public.
T i lit 1 wsth,propriety the hn?ible station in
but,few qualifications appear, to be
(Pecflfary, pnd tliefe to ,be cojTjpriied in,tl3e fpl
jlpwuid particulars • " that "he be a ci,tizen of
lornef pne of theTe States, and acquainted with
foreign lktigtiages;" That he fhbulcl be a citir
•zen ( and i'f not a nitivS, a resident for a term
•of fufficiesnt duration, to .ailiire a superior at-
to fhis, over every jother try,
f;?ms awglutely. ; for be
longs totlie department of State, in which ait
fairs with fbreign nations are tFanfafted,
pas* thro«gh<Ms hands : aftd t»at he (hotfd poC-
a knowledge of foreign languages, mull: bfe
pqupjly so ; sot Qtherwifti he would receive (i
f Catu/lu<, jvhom I cotiftJer a% tjie American, fays A
in cjfetf, that the publication by Mr. John Adams, up'-
on thefubjetlvf goifernm nt, has been written Ji) ob~
fcurely, that no person could tell whether he was an a'i
vJthte Jfir hereditary .eiders or not ;of cour J:, tha,t
U would bear either cjnflruFlion. '/ had concluded,
Jrom the pej ufal (pace gave that voluminous and pon
derous work that the. equivocation, intended, had beein
covered with so thirt a veii\ that no per Jon mould mif
taie his sentiments on that point. Indeed J have al
ways, nnderjloody it mas ocknaml edged, by his more in-
UmAe friends, that its merit confifled in the
candor ivith which he ful'poiUd, at the r[fk oj his po
pularity, that kind of government. It is with reluc
tance I mention this gentleman ; I Jhould not knvt done
, H hai his friend nts brought hint farm Qui.
coreper.ktbn \\ Using aate
ift- ' |
No. 111.
Limited, however, as the fca'f.. ess rvetcU>D
qualification may yet candor admit
that i: is difficult, to them - onirefi- in
/anje.gerfqii 1 t')>r j.t iq which (.aunot bi
fcentr'overtfd, .tiat ::rc' bat i
'caii'!, fft' anyranli'dr iifclimftantes Vis Ti?c*
polTv'J": a»*stteiHtvif ot'ifoietjn Itinr
. Arteaar*dJ»ei!e«ce, tfawi, tir l!: 3 fir j
rerjuiiite Itiftlk d:mM<ifi»-tlnf re.'
qiijr«4,H r c6<;'fPfy i" tl»e latter., _ ■
■ Anoti.' i; of weiol.t.
muttftiil contribute (if redoes of i'< [
feflinrf, to kTiiucK nii^WriftMc.*>T p ite fc'»ihf
jjerfatiftir.nf 2j:nd»liafs per
110 rel'pcftable charaftep from a-/ft#;yrt.-Btotsf
to abandoii.a lucrative ,or tiie cofii'
Toi taltfe ease of private.' \Sih. ' '$6r Wn'it - 'ifT-
ef^P'etaUy"iwtoii
«foifice*i9 perioii tU utu y|
wt&c «if/ in .wbiifc'thc RofcyeOs- M®T,
chance to.Betide, (owhoe prdin.uy fu'iiifteiu
it would not yield a ai('. In fhui.t
it mti'tbe fhanifclr, that there c'aii be .1 1 rhoic
in tli'. ;!;!;>-« I 'm' '■■ ■' a '< o!t n ■
illbuM Its -ec ',1 -milt hr 1 .r ; >-r t' .- oti.vt 4
.< ■ i-,ch..e ■o ;a ilcd Dv _
For this I havei been Mr
"reneau preGnted t: e followir, { well ante -nti
cited claim* 1 . A native .of (ire of the midda
States, he had been liberally educated at Pr'nfce
ton. To an accurate' knowledge and lVfiiiei
:\fj in t >c En;»ii4h language, he tiad ■ adde-l ;
".uiilar acquiteipsn,t of ttje French; the-nfttiei
vithwhoin we lia;ve tlie . nioft . intimate con
lexiqn, and whose language lias become, in ;
;tedt meafurfe tliroitjhdu't Europe', 'trie jpiie'ra
medium of political Aegn&atio'v. "That tkr'onr.l
ife hts moral? v. ere without • blcinilb, nhd lii
ondu,& iivtho.coifcfe of the tevoiuti«»,-tHisiii!
.arioofly occupied, that of a i»ii(id whig 4"tU
epublit ! Perhaps his.fufferings; having beei
aken a priiojxvr •" the late wnr, Md eoiifinet
.bra conial arable time in i.he (hip jeife.;.:, that
Voted rccep'taclc for m fortunate 'Ame 1 icat
aptiv'e*;' ir.fty '*tivi excited (time additiona
Vmpatbv in his favor. Much, l.mverfr, I have
iiidei'tiood, were lis pretentions and wl;etV'.
■iie.v were '.}t tuiic-i: 11 tojiave 'econuneiHUt
nn\ to an higher ilatipn, tlie jmbjic
iljiie.'
To what trait 111 h.-; character, wtt.it- eWWI
n hi? <]Ualilicati on«, does Ore Ariierican ofcjer" ?
l'o hi ", oc cupati '11 ?— '.ad it to, to oca upat'.ou.
generally, or to this in particular ? 'J'he low
;ate» or gride of competifutiou, it has been al
■ea^y'ihewn! precluded the hope ot obtaining
nan out ofbuffyei'. A)id to'that of the pre!;
ri particular, what vi-|].fonrded objection car
>e oppolcd ; I; it lei's honorable, lets beneficia.
:o mankind than ail other? : and does the Ante
•ican cetne forward to traduce and lcUftt.it ir
;he estimation of the public ' .Vain and unvur
:hy effort ! "jrv/hi'it its fe'vltct fiull be re-,
aembered in raifisit man from a low and de
rradid-iliM of b.irbarifin to the high i> it pro Ve •
iient of .lis talents, in tlie perfeftjoii of the art ":
md Icienees, which form? the p;vu<! boalt ot
i]od«rn t iutes every attempt of this kind mull
ie reprobated.
Vhether'fie had'already letup a pre!a otwai
ibont to do It For the American may have it
rither wv.) it being the fupplcniental aid it;
"uppatt of hi? funit--, tt> enable l.ini to under
-ake the duties of this clerkftiip, wherein doc;
:he difference consist"? 'If in the fprmer init.ancs
t would l ave been proper, wh'y'lefs. lb in the
atter > t'n!ef?'it can b: ihevi n, that the e.Torl
a. eftalilidi a press, (bould" in all cases be dif-
or difcotirajed wherr attempted by. ?
nan ps his character —a whig and republican :
s7otild it hot be ftard on men of merit in hi;
ine, and highly detrimental to the public, il
;he door of preferment! flionld -be (hut again!!
:iiem, and the friendly countenance of the mod
-electable aad virtuous of their cou.itrymcn.
nhibited ?
The conduct e/fthe press itTelf, is, m ever}
•efacet, a diltin« thing, and for which Rtr
[eitci-lbn can be 110 way accountable. -Like the
irol'effions of law,or medicine, .the emolument
lelong to the proprietor; and fir his Kjenc)
herein,, he alone it answerable. If an tmpar
ial vehicle of u'eful information, it will be tef
lefted; aii3 if other it will fad; but i:
his, the Secretary can be no further intereSCd.
bail anv other republican. This, and ever,
itber press, in a tree country, is or ihould b.
men to him and others to publilh their fenti
r.ems in. To "ay'that this'was more to,.wouk
mpute to it. what .others wo6ld deny, as re
iroachful to them. It would, in fact, derogate
"rom the merit of the very impart ia : , and re!
lettable channel, through which 1 now lurnii.
hefe comme ita Tiiat he has, howevei, in
i; :Unce availed himfelf of it, in the conununt
■ation of his sentiments to the public, has ngi
leeri shewn, and is disproved, io lar a; he knew
,nv thing ab i-at it, by the oath ot the Printer.
The abjection on the point of inHuencc, it tne
haraeters in question were capable of it, ap
pears to ine so light and contemptible, in rela
ion to this appointment, as fcarcelv to rneiit
,nv farther n oice. For the difchargc ot cq-
* J have under#ood he was recommended by feverM
of his fellow-collegiates :—men ojhigk refutation, and |
who wet e interejled in his wejare.
WEDN £S iA c', O(fOii £if 2". J, [7V) j .
165
. - •• - '
. abfi.lutely necettary, and well defined, the i p#tant Yonftde'rationis. TUeVticcif. ofev«ry
! 'tested by law, and a faJSry apuqjaijl j oovernment —its capacity to com bine the exe
;.. V.. If the pecfop appointed performs tuition ot" public Ilren4ft with the preferyaron < f
s what other claim can the principal have perfimal right anA'yrivatc fiscurit*, qualities
on him . Is he not entitled, in focli event, as which <lefine the prrt«4io» of a .Government
wII to tile approbation of the head of the niuft always naturally depend on the energy of
pirtment, as to the legal cnmpe«fation ? I)e- the executive department. This energy, again
.Jed, indeed, would tie condition of a free- must materially depend'on the union and. rrtu
ntoll to -the acceptance of an office of this tuai'defofeijce', v.'b'.tfh fublift between the me.li
i". d, was enjoined, not only the performance ben of that department,, and tha conformity
j J ; :t > P<A»C duties, but likevilea low lijbfer- of their conduct with the views qf the executive
vihjice, in thofc domestic tbricerhs, t*> th 6 will chief
cf a iiiperior upon which his welfare, hftppinef: Difference of opinion lietween men engaged
st 1 tame depended. Diofe circuinftancefr. in any putluit, i? a natural appendage
y ich Characterize an influence of this kind, of human nature. Wlien only exerted in <he dif.
tr a different afpetsl. It ca/i fxilt only in chdrgc'nf a dutv, withdellcacy andtemper,among
tb >iti cases, where thpre is no intervening.ofticd, liberal and sensible men, it can create uo ani
»" ftatrte ground, on which the Indepeudarrt mofity-j but wlien it produces.officious interfe
-1 i (id rnav reft ileotire ;--in those cases wherb rences, dictated by no callof duty when it Vo
t' employment itfelf is occasional, "and the lunteers a display of itfelf in a quarter, where
I« tb. be employed,, -and the companlatioii there i» norefponfibility, to the obftruAion and
it • the fervicc, difc.retionary. ,If fucji a call- emUlrraHment of one who is charged with an
|.V r. exijt, 'tis not my. wiih to make the agpli- immediate and direst responsibility—it meftne
; ion for the fake of public decorum, <jf ceiTarily beget ill humour and discord between
jo r.raon decency, I could have Wilhed there the parties.
! 1 been 110 foundation for the aliufion. Applied to the members of the executive ad
l"Jv negocihtion, by which, this Worthy tha- mipiftration of any government, if mull necef
| rter is Rated to.Wave beeri brought into this farfly"tend to'(Tctafiori,'morL' or less, diftraifted
I ' uoaltorn defcriUad with great chnnc?ls, tofollcr factions ih t'te community,
, pomp and loleinhity. f" r whole and pra&ically to weaken the government.
pWtc aild private- virtues—for wbofe talents Moreover the Jiettds ®f.the several executive
and-vary eniinet>tfervVc«<! to h?s country, and departments are jultly to be vie wad as amjilia
parti'cularly for whose difiaterefted and repub- ries to the executive chief. Oppofitioii to any
liefn patriotism, the good people ps thrfe Statejs mca'lure of his, by "either of thof'e heads of de
l»ve lon« mo(l exalted efteeiri. partincnte.exdc'ptm the lhapebf frank,firm,ahd
has been rppreientod the ; and 'independent advice to himfelf,is evidently con
for the" purpose rtf subverting/the £ovet«nmeitt trary to the relations which •subsist between the
he contributed to eilentiallj'to eftablifij. .parties. 'And,it cannot we]l be controverted
Can the public Eiirid, Whefi thefc "fle.i-derous <jj(- that a meaftir'e hecomesjjts, so as to involve the
: j>U'ati(Oiis'are palfed in review, witbhold from duty'of acqiiielcence on the part of the ifcem
thtir author, the contempt aud kbhorrepc4, bert of his aclminiftratiar, as well by its haviii"'
Mfliich jiye.defer'ycdly. his due ? ' received Ms ! fahfHorf irt tbe foumof a law, asby
hi; approbation.
In the theory of our government, the chief
magistrate is.himJclt rcfponfible tor the exercise
of every power ve'f.ed in lilni by tTie conftltu
tion. Ofte of the pov.'crs entrusted to him, is
that of objecting to bills which have palled the
two lioofes of Congpefs. This fu[>pofes the du
ty of objecting, when he is of opinion, that the
object of any bill is either unctvfiitutiontl or pcr
nicious. The approbation of a bill implies, that
'~ J ' lot think it either t'-.e one o'r the other.
Wr The reader is requcftcd to make the
following correction in'Mi'. firft Let
ter r£n line eighth, fnfle'ad bf u revenue from"
rt,e d u se cu r ten ce to, }i
FOR THE GAZti riL'OF THE L'XJTED STATES-
jefferjim, deyo
ttfei*i'Bol' kin<ilcs' at eWnt'foriii
ii-L.w.,. ■ii.ii'ltll) iy
rfucedwaltai" ftort'T"! <W ofit ™,
to the ineafurcftiqt'! the EOvcrnmer.t.i-'Tiiaa
cordinr t» rhfiiu, t'ufi.&iUHjiWt JitcH P?. V>'" tu '
in him,tiot anjy,.to,ha/3
railed t&ns', v/ith his Colleagues, lj
♦he cdtltfir offliflf
■A D «dVt» #ppSfttkm jWy hdfcPbfce
considered and eoMJtsri .!>* tha: legtfla-»tlttyw} t',
such tWtkeiXL p»ope: tl
and
Sncii&>&■!& 'ftlSems. Blanks " *&n»
I Hious v mAej)eni}'eVlfci6t"chari'sfer. , ; »MYpnld
strange inyfrflufi 6f, ttii
ideas of decorum, propriety and WflHt 4 ,* VM««
$har*3wAMs a W*>ln party,, tkti mihingj
theme of TjKoijiipm pf.what '?. ti'pl^a;
ftVation of.a cab?ljinrf/eIC-fuffi(:ieutiand^fr^c
H?6rv would afford it. j. ....
In ordered '(MeWtfat tlifc epithets
ttiifapfjfe<*,<i scour:
a.finrf Slid «rt id'us- -ita«pcnaeti«c <J«
guided by. 4 fenfc <*<&<?*'
would di£t»ffj tp a (W W M
has Htfcp re»^Fed : »ic>feflWC^la'"ly/ 1
qnifit'', bv'tiiS forhval difcuflion of thj #om
Wv&ppeawWt?e te ! r
ps smtefenoeaf t
pailv loth in*. I. . > It '<»«
■ Tia teprobatud,
wtio VaAaccgptod ao office in tfc^
p'/rtmferft, ffibuia tetieWtothrow the W*, j:
his fch'drtcSefiAto tfi< "(tale, to Aippori a me|
fk-e, hi Rt« Mfainct he aijipftitci, fctid li
hhJifltifA W oppvfcd*—Or -XMI ,«ie' tnefflkfeW i
the'Wimftrati?n ; fi»ould Witogstner acid/
and licret combinaim x into xvhofe vicafo es.tflc ptojW
c\e'of iie tktfScJKaut'd in no iajkiff* ?'>•.,■••StS u | t
ki vtfy HtbnVlA' meftiii) bitwftri aiding q
a measure ; between LnthidifcSfffgi
ps an officialtltiev, " r vql«9teerin& amoppdlitiOi
to it in the'itoargtpf P° ***«*«!«•
writ's Sito a ctofe and fecrej witl
the' bthe'r aiemWs of* an dnc
aeing tbe aftlve ifeadtf yf Mi ofprfititio' t6'it
uieafores>' " •'
The trus lvne of proprjety appeals to me t(
be the following ":—A member o.i'„tbf
tration, in one departmenf, oughl; only, to *f.
tfcofe- flArfrtrei oTah6tfte>i vAWi
where he disapproves, if csrfled oDdn »«'
ialty. 6e ' Biftppr«n»no».
Mitt avow,bis, opposition f bat ®ut of «i ttntifc
ine he oaght not. to interfere, "> /""$ *» M[&*>*'
fttobintiriuc: a pnUff.tkt gdwrjjlrfw- t^' n
■lie itiesiftire in;qH«ftidn has become a, law oftK
and, efpeciatlSr With i tfireft T4n«idri ot the
:hief is peculiarly his duty toac
juiefte. A, contrary tdntluift. i» irtcohfift««t
.vith his. relations ** an officer of. the go*er|-
nent, and with a due refpeft, ai fufh r for tßc
lecifions of the legijiaiure, and of the head ct
He tfxecutivW ! depa#trffent.' TfC 1»» e " ere .„V
in«2ted, ij dra-vn from obvious v«i7 ir *"
' [Wfiole-No..
fdr tiih opinion- The mer.kire becomes hie by
adoption- Nor.conM he cleftpe a portion of the
blame, which thouid finally attach itfelf to a
bad pieafpre, to which he had given his confetit.
I 'am prepared for funic declamation against
the principles which have been laid down. Seme
platvfible floui'iflVes have already been indulged.
And it is' ta tie expected, that the pnbiic ear
will be frill .further availed with the common
place that so teadily pre It ot themselves,
and are so de'jcteroufly retailed bv the trifiick
ers fn pbpjilar prejudice. But it need never be
feared 1 to fabrnif A> fofid truth to the deliberate
and final opinion of an enlightened and fobec
p e opjfi. n ,
What! (it will probably be qQffiy) is a m,an
to faCriiice his- confidence and his judgment to
an'bffiie'? Is he to be a dumb fyeflator of mea
<u#e4NVhictthe deems lubverfiie of the
intterefcs of hi* fellow-citl7ensl Is he to prift
pone to the .tYivolous.rules ©f a fajfe eoniphr.-
fance, or the ar-bitrary.diftates ot a tyrannical
decorum, the higher duty, which lie owes to she
Cofmnunity?
I 'aftfwer, No ! he is to Jo none c-f ttjefe
tliinj's. If'neci ;ii"t coalesce with thofc, with
-.rVini he is atioci.itcd, a- - : as the rules ct
uincial decorum,prop*iety & obligation may re
quire,without abandoning what he conceives to
be the true interest of the community, lut him
frlace hirtifelf in a situation in which, he will ex
perisr cc no collision of"oppofitc dutie*. Let h;m
not cling to the honor or emolument of an rrii,ce
whichever it may be that attracts him,and ccn
tent himfelf with dele; ding the injured right*
t,f the people by obfeure or indirect means. Let
him renounce a situation which is a clog upcu
his patriot!!!!! ; tell the people that he could no
longer continue in it without forfeiting bi» dfcty
n them, and that lie had chitted it to be more
„t liberty to afford them his left services.
Such is the course which would be indicated
bv a firm and virtuous independence ot charac
ter. Such the courle that would be puri'ued by
i man attentive to unite the sense of delicacy
ivith the tense of dots—in earneftahout the j>er
nicious tendency of public measures, and more
folic tous to act the disinterested friend ol the
people, than the intereftcd ambitirus and in
triouiog head of a party-
ion rr.E gazliTlTTTZ'l vxiilv statu.
WlllLthefcv'n propitious pours us Mrflingsdown,
jfon» lerenc, sr.«J si-its without a howh;
While Nature with a rich piolufion yMds,
-\»d loads with grain thf.icl.lv i i.pcu'd fields;
While Commerce Wafts us with her fwrllinp; l»il,
• ott,'< rl.oiecft prodiifts r.n cach fav'rirg gale ;
/.'hot I- w> p.otcft what indlillrv acquires,
\r.d rcafon only limiu our dr-fiies;
;vhil (Mrrpnzc has t- .indlefj scope to ra*»< e »
.<• rrfv') '<>»»» ,i!JI Ulr,; ma > dl ""i r!
r« fnmr there arc. vrhofc fnu'nwnh cnv?'blirti,
v : ,'i tf.:» fee »»<! darkntls turn.
-jr*
f
' A.
»» . i- . „Foreign Affairs.
PARIS, August r?.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
permanent sitting.
Prrjidcnt —M. Merlin. |
rpHli Allenrbly itiued articles of
1 impeachment against M. D'A
bancourt, Secreiary at War, for not
having, agreeably to a decree, feut
the Swift Guards from the capital.
The deliberations were interrupt
ed several hours —many of the meu>
ber* left the hail, in order to take a
little reft.
Adgust II
The Houfc refwned the debates.
On M. Breard's motion, the Afiem
bly decreed, that the new municipa
lity fliould inform the legislative bo
dy, of the fiate of the capital, every
hour. The municipal officers were
authorized to adopt what nveafures
they might think most expedient for
vectoring peace and good order.
A national guard came to the bar :
he declared, it was urged to fend
troops to the Thuilleries, in order to
put a ftopto the depredations com
mitted in every apartment of the Pa
lace. He added, that several persons
had been taken in the ail of pi I lag
ing, and the people had punilhed
them with death !
Another petitioner (hewed the ne
ceffiry of carrying away the dead bo
dies fcauered over the Palace-garden.
A moment after, a commiflary in
formed the Houl'e that there were
several carts at the Palace-gate ro car
ry away the dead. .
The redtor of Natuerre, a munici
pal officer of that dillricl,announced,
that several Swiss had been taken in
to custody, they were disguised.—
They said, they were day laborers,
but their foreign dialedt betrayed
them. A crowd soon gathered round
the guard room ; their heads were
called for : the municipal officers, he
added, were exerting their belt en
deavors to Sppeafe the people's rage ;
bui that their efforts were directed in
vain.
Several citizens came to the bar
and laid down a great number of va
luable articles saved from the wreck
-grm>w»u juii ap:
plaiife on their honesty, wiihooc be
tjig «t all surprized at it.
The co mmi (Tat ies of the commons
of Paris were invited to the har ; _
they gave the following account ol
the IVate ofthccapital : The ferment
is less violent, though ftiil terrible ;
— 1 he members of t lie commons have
superseded all the justices of the
peace in the different fet'tiotis : the
general aflembl; of the fertions are
now itmtted with that authority.
No body can go out of Paris— The
commander in chief of the national
guards and the commiflkries have
taken the proper steps to iinprifon
the Swiss, who are now confined in
the different guard rooms.
A national guard came to the bar,
followed by a great number of citi
zens : he declared, that theSwirs sol
diers who were in the guard room of
the Frtiillants were not guiltv ; he
said, that they had not, nor would
not fire on the people, and that they
had dilcharged their niufkets in the
an-, as a proof of tbeir good and
.mentions : ,he petitioner
added.that 3000 persons had been
witnelles to what he advanced
The people in the galleries did not
•think the owifs innocent ; they cx
claimedCda eft faux !"
The petitioner answered, that seve
ral members of the afTembly, could
and would vouch for the veracity of
Jus ailertions. J
1 he aflembJy commended the ee
nerof.ty of the volunteer, who resum
ed the fnbject. He laid, he would
go and endeavor to calm the people,
b) proving the innocence of Ihe few
,1, the " confinement. He ask
ed the people in the galleries to ac
company hnn ; a vast number com
plied A few m , nates after they re
urned and brought about 20 Swift
to the bar. _ 1 he spokesman protelled
1«7 ,nnocent > a "d that they
liad nothing more at heart, than to
bind tbemfelves, in the mod fo)einil
®Jnner t to the brave far, cu/ott J_
(Those were the expressions, which
were much applauded.)
The Swiss ptomifed they wotili at
all times behave like worthy chizerrs.
M. Chabot knew that all the Svifc
were not gnilty. He moved that
theyfhonldbecommitted to theAbbiye
prison, until judgment were pafled
on them. ,M.-Chabot thought it lie.
celfary to inform the alfembly, jliar
those Swiss had impeached the con
duel of iheir flafF officer*.
The legislative body decreed,,that
they should Jbe committed to prison,
and that some members oFtfoe aflein
bly should accompany then).
The Swiss were leaving the 1
when M. the enmno ■ J',
in chief of the National Gnards ap
peared at the bar. He gave iheaf
i'embly notice ofhis promotion ; and
| communicated the measures he had
adopted for insuring the public tran
quility. He said, he had summoned
the citizens to their refpeelive guard
rooms ; that he had established seve
ral patroles through the town. jvi.
Santerre's generous condutfl received
merited applause.
A great noise was heard about the
Aflemblv-Hall.
M. Duhem thought it won id belie
ceflaiy to detain the Swiss a little
longer.
The motion was seconded by M.
Mailli. He was of opinion that the
people would not fuffer them to pass
unmolested.
The nlfembly decreed that the Swiss
ffionld remain in the hall.
M. La Croix moved, that a court
martial should be appointed in the
tourf'e of the day to judge tlie Swiss
officers and soldiers.—Decreed una
liimoufly.
M. Clavier®, called back to admi
nistration, took the oath of office ;
he promised to canfe the laws of e
quality and liberty to be executed to
the bell of his abilities ; and to ex
pire, if necessary, at his pott, rather
than be a perjured villain.
M. Rolaud, Secretary for the Home
Department, took the fame oath.
M. Page, the Naval-Secretary echoed
the fame lemiments of patriotism.
M. D.mton, keeper of the seals,
conti acted the fame engagement ;
and feeing the Swiss under the fafe
guard of the National AfJembly, and]
in the temple of the law, he promi/ed
nnpnwr nrjfToCecT thein from
danger, until a court-martial should
cotiucnin or acquit them.
I he President gave notice to the
assembly, ,hat the people thought
the wifs were all g)]i l ty , a „ d t f, ar
they feared the Jegiflative body would
dec I arc them innocent.
1 be national aflembly appointed
ommiffioners to harrangue the peo
| | e .and read the decree in virtue
of which the Swiss were to bejudg
ed immediately.
The ledtion of Quatre Nation de- 1
puted a com miliary, to inform the
houle that a Swift.porter had been
murdered in R ue Tarranne.
The allembty decreed, that the mu- '
nicipalny of Pans should get on horse
back, and proclaim all t |, e recem de '
ciees of the national assembly. '
ro URN A Y, August,*.
Tins morning the enemy, wit
hout 600 infantry and 4 00 cavalry
advanced towards the callle of Mtr
in, where one of our advanced nofls
commanded by Lieut. Zaboifty, w: .s
final? K1 hC Liei,!eria »t with the
order"wai f° Cha "' tirs under his
order, was, after a most gallant re
I T 6 ' , Ced t0 retrear - To wards
< ay- leak, the surrounding pickets
gathered together, with a g vf ew to
char ge ;he enemy, whom they oblir
e' t0 evacuate Merlin. J g
In their retreat we Ui,led two 0 f
«r o fleers, 32 men, and 27 made
wmi'SLI Among the latter " ,ere
R ,K Caprai " of the Party of
Inn • Char °*> and a private be
longing , 0 the fame legion, who were
""mediately (hot. "> w *o were
I ki»ed or fi ,nffled man ° f ° UrS W " eith «* r
rie^^temm 6 Se " era] Dun '°«-
er attempted this attack uoon Tour
"%> c detached another Column of
50 me . n > lo attack the p o f» of Bitte#
'"out.intheKoreft oflLu* 1'
s a . rtat 'k 'lie French' were e
t::::;"::"";'" 1 '
166
On the right of our army, the
French General had likewise ordered
25omen toadvance. They approach
ed Little Tournay wiih a view to
plunder and set fire to ic, but were
repulsed by our Tyrolean chaffenrs.
In their precipitate retreat, t,hey.'fir
ed twice on our iroops, but Captain
Baron Celli, purfned them sb closely
as to kill three of their men on the
cause-way of Waterloo.
SPIRE, August i r
The Auftrians began to bombard
Landau on the Bth inft. about four
o'clock in the mornihg.
, 1 he Marquis Bouille has joined the
I Imperial army.
MANHEIM; August 4.
Last night, about eight o'clock, a
detachment of Austrian horse attack
ed the Krench cavalry near LfHngen,
and drove them back with great loss,
under the cannon of Landau.
The fldrmiflies between the two ar
mies are frequent, and from the su
perior discipline of the Imperial and
PrulTian troops ; victory generally
crowns their arms.
Pruflian Head Quarters at Contr, in
the environs of Treves, Aug. 6.
Yesterday, the jth inft. the army
entered the camp. The van-guard,
under the command of Prince Hohen
lohe, has encamped between Graven
math and Tavern.
r , The king's»qiiarrers,arc in the-Mo
nalfery of ttie Carthufiatis, and those
|of the Duke of Bt-unfwick at Cont?.
iHoftilities aie immediately to.be com
jmenced, but at prefeiu both parties
aie nearly inactive.
The French patriots at Landau
have sent an address to all the Jaco
bin clubs in France, in which they
declare their refolurion to perish in
the ruins of the forcrefs rather than
to surrender.
Thegarrifon consists now of ten
thotif'aud men.
LONDON, Augult 28.
All the custom-house cutters at
Portftnouth were yesterday put under
the command of Admiral Lord Hood,
and several other dispositions made,
Which are never adopted but for the
purposes of a general ihiprefs of sea-
men.
Whether these steps indicate an in
tention in our court to takean a<Sive
part in the continental difpates, or
whether they are merely.precaution
ary measures to enable us to atft as
circumftar.ce* and found policy may
afterwards didtate, a iirtle time will
probably determine.
It is confefled in Paris that the ad
vanced guard of the main army at
Fontoy has sustained an attack by the
Auftrians, in which 400 men fell on
the fide of the French, though the
enemy was repulsed.
The Duke of Brunfwick was at Lux
embourg for a few hours 011 the 14th
of this month. On the 1 sth came the
King of I'rulGa on horse back, whom
the goveroor received at the entrance
of the town, and accompanied with
great form to all the reuiarkabic parts
of the fortrefs. After taking foine
1 efrefhment, he returned on the (ante
day to the camp at Montfort.
Extratt of a letter brought by the Dutch
mail yejlerday.
" The general M. de la Fayette,
and 12 officers of rank, whs were
making the best of their way to Hol
land, were (lopped near Liege, and
taken prisoners by die Ltegois legi
on ; the general claimed the light
of nations, being 011 neutral ground,
cut he \v;is given to underrtand that
he must fubinit to the right of arms,
and he was made priloncr with all
his followers. "
FRANCE.
Tia.iflationofanote tranfniitted from
the Critifh court to the provifiona
ry Council.
" In the absence of Lord Grenrille,
Mr. i)unda« declare* that his ttritan
Nic Majefly is afflitfted with the deep
est grief for the events which have
lately taken place at Paris, b »th oil
account of the interest which he
takes ill every thing, which concerns
their in oft Chriftiaii Majetlies, and of
his desire to fee the kingdom of
France tranquil and happy. As it
appears that the exercise of the exe
cutive power has been withdrawn
from the hands of the king, his Bri
tannic Majefly is of opinion that his
ah.bafacior ha, no : ftcrafioT. ft* ~
majning any longer , t Paris tkkff
be.ng pr6per to m a „if eft
on of rtnraming neunM as
concerns the internal 00,.r0 0 ,. r 11 c
Kranrp u. • K o>er fiment nf
rI- m • c « n «"iiffionfd to C v
press his Bntannic M*Urt»". rr
tude and aiixiety for ,he f f k' 1 "
-"ott Christian M.jelH..
tha, their persons «i Ih. pCdt
pvrions win be protected
from every kmd of *ioleL*; , e
conimilfion of which w bul ,| ' ®
rope/ * ,ndi *»«-»^oughouK
Copy of a letter from M. la Fayette
y d
August 13. »«•■«(»
■ " Con) miffioners of the National
Aflembly are to arrive, to prealhan
( nnconltitutioiial doctrine to the army
It is evident to every unprejudiced'
man, that on the loih of Augu'l ,|.,
' epoch of the king's fufpeniion,' ,| le
1 national aflembly had been violated ■
and the members who have accepted
ol fucli a miilion, can be only the
chiefs or the instruments of the fac
tion, that has thus enllaved the nati.
onal a flembly and the king.
In the terms of the law relative
to the I'care of war, and 011 my f o ! e
and personal refponfibiliiy, J ca j| up .
on the municipality of Sedan to de
tain the persons calling themselves
conimiffioners from the national af
(embly, and to put them in f a f e cus
tody, under the guard of a superior
officer, who equally on my sole ami
personal responsibility, fli'all execute
this order, which he cannot refufe to
do, without being immediately bro't
to anfwei before a council of war.
" I must also call upon the consti
tuted authorities of departments, by
virtue of the fame laws, to approve
of these measures ; and I fliail make
the fame requifitioii to the tribunal
of ihediflridt of Sedan, and to the
different departments in which are
stationed the troops committed tome.
This letter, deposited at the mu
nicipality, will fer*e as a voucher to
fliew that neither the community of
Sedan, nor the national guard, whom
the law puts tinder my command,nor
the troops of the army »olunteers,and
troops of the line, and particularly
M. Sicard, Colonel of the 43d regi
ment, whom 1 appoint to this million,
nor tj)e adniiniflrative and judicial
bodies who may concur in arreting
the commiflioners, are fubjecft to any
responsibility, and that it is I, Who
faithful to my oaths, to the princi
ples of the declaration of rights, to
[the conftiturion, which the sovereign
will of the nation has decreed,-—that
it is 1 alone who call for, as I have a
right to do, all the measures that may
give undeniable proofs of resistance
of" oppreifion, the fir It duty of free
minds.
(Signed) "I.aFAYETTE."
Copy of a letter from M. la Fayette
to the municipal officers at Sedan
dated Bouillon, Augult 19.
" Gentlemen,
" If the last drop of my blood could
serve 1 lie communiry of Sedan, it ha*
a right to the facrifice, and this would
colt me less tlian that which I now
make,but at the moment when 1 fore
fee, by reasons that will not escape
you,that my presence with you would
tend only in a few days to bring you
into danger, I ought to fparethe ciry
of Sedan the misfortunes of which!
should be the cause, and I think the
belt means of serving it is by remov*
ing from,it a man whom all the ene
mies of liberty have prol'cribed, who
will never bow to any despotism, ana
who, penetrated with grief at being
110 longer able at prefeut to be ufetul
to his country, feels confola ion only
in the vows he puts up, :hat the sa
cred cause of liberty 3iid equality,
whose holy name is profaned, if 'hat
be pollible, by the crimes ofa' au /
on, may not at least be hehl lo»g
fubjetftion, and in the oath which ie
renews before a conunuuity truly
triotic, to be-faithlul tfr the princi
pies thru have animated his vtboie
(Signed) "La FAYETTE.
PARIS, August SJ
" You will find by ;i letter froV
VI. Se van, that in the nigivtbetween
;he loth and 20th, M. 1" f l ayettewfj
over io the enemy. The in^ n " €r .
ti'fFei'Ptiflv related. It is /aid that)
,n»de'i)rir..ner while/ecoiin*"*
i Ijv u<'ieis ; that he isHolland, in order to pafi 6*er into
England ; but with more probability
of truth, that under the pietence of
Opening the gales of Sedan to the
ComnuUJoneri of' the National Aflem
bly, he and seventeen of his Jitat Ma-1
jori, among whom were M. A)e*an i
der Lameth.M. Jieauliamois, and M.:
Gouvion, the brother of the general 1
that fell so gloriously, took ihe op- (
portunity of throwing theinl'elvei in
to the hands of one of the advanced'
polls of the enemy, and by which
they were made prisoners of war.
There certainly was no other way
by which he could save hi* fife a
gainst the decree of the Allembly,
which inltigated every one to limit'
him down.
" We have this day accounts that
the coiniiiiirioiier3 have fnfpeuded M.
Luckner. 1 his feeble old inan,\vh.Qj'e
Germanic tliirft of" money would
make him yield toe»ery polfible con
dition, however fordid, the comntif
iioners, upon enquiry, did not chul'e
to eotruli with the fate of fiance.
" You will fee that M. Manunorin
was taken at the house of a wafher
woinan in '.he KauxbourgSt.Antoine,
His examination at the bar of the as
sembly was *ery interelting. His
dexterity in repelling the members
•was admirable. He laid, the letters
found in the Thuilleries were not
addrefled to him. He had no apart
ments in the .Palace. There was a
jiother Montmorin, governor of Koji
tainbleau, and to him poflibly these
Jtueis might be directed. Onlearch
ilig him fever a I doles of opium were
found in his pockeiK ; but so perfect
■was ills address, that it is thought
tiny will not find ground for accufa
lioti in his conduct."
1 he fblpenfiim of M. Lixkner and
M. Union, lias followed the flight of
M. <le la Kayeue; The JVlaielchal
has o.f late.begun to think his puwei
foinewhit independeni ut the legilla
tive hotly. and M. Drl'lon's fit ft' iditer,
after the loll) ii<H. certainly judical
ed an jnien.-jim to lupport ihe King
against the N&Uonal rtfJeii'bly, ifaflv
uggle could he maintained between
• hem. M. kellei man has ihe com
mand of M LOtklitVs aiiny.
!• i The.three commiliu'iiers lately im
pjiifontd at Sedan, are now■•■veleafcj!,
»*EX!NO i ON ..(Kentucky) Sept. 13.
■fxirafl oj a -It! let fnm a gentleman at
¥ert WajhiiigtOH, dated Sept. 7.
\ t ' '' I arrived,here lull evening, and
fhi» in ft ant Geti. Wiikini'on arrived-;
Jhe has been to the battle ground and
two pieces of cannon that were
' Jptt «ft the unfortunate fourth of No
"tCßibcr lalt. Lalt night a party of
'ladtans came to Fon-Hainihon and
"look off about sixty hoi fes of" the Con
tradiors ; Capt. Baibee with 60 men
.** f' I fuit of thein, mwl 1 make iu>
Wfjll overtake ihem."
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES
ML CH has been lately (aid and written about
the Secretary of Staies' political versatility,
1 don't know much about hu politics,, but havjrig
tome time ago read htt book, entitled Notes onVir
gwta, wherein is an elaborate attempt to p.ove
that the negroes are an inferior race of animalr, I
wa* not a Jurlc furprifird at a later to; a certain
Benjamin fiaiineker, a black man, lately publtfh
cd, in which he fays, '® tfiat nature has given to
".hu black brethren talcnif equal co those ol other
" colours, and that the appearance of a want of
44 them is owing merely to the degiaded condi
tion of their exilteuce both in Africa and Am' -
14 nca." The to which I allude iu his
book (and whitn evince considerable ve*fatilitv in
hi i> p/n/oJ<jpJiuaJ opinions) are so diametrically 'op*
poiue to this I'entiment that for the fake of thok
who may not have it, I will transcribe them.
Mr. Jctteifon, I understand, had formed a c'uri
ous piojt&ol emancipating the (laves-Of Virginia
aud then Ihipping them ail to tome other country ;
in page 252 ot hi* book, he fays, 44 it will proba
bly be a Iked, why not retain and incorporate tht
blacks into the Siatt ?" he aufwers, 44 deep root
ed prejudices entertained by thr whites, ten thou
land rccolledions by the blacks of the injuries
they have fultairted, new provocations, the realdf
tindions which i.atu)e hjs made, and many oihct
cucuioftanccg will divide us into parties and pro
duce Gonvulfious which will never end but in the
extern) ination ot the one or the other race. T<»
these objedhons which are polnical, may be added
others which arc phy ileal and moral. The fir ft
diitercnce which strikes us is that of colour, whe
ther the black ot the negro resides in the reticular
Tnemb'ane between the fltin and scars skin, or in
*he scars fk:n itfelf, whether it proceeds from the
colour ol the blood, or the colour ot the bile, or
from mat of feme other secretion, the difference is
fxed id nature as real as if its feai and cause
Vvf ' l Qttter knowii to us.—And is this difference oj
t.o importance f Is it not the foundation or a greatei
or a«c ihare of beauty the two raccs ? Are not
the tint mixtures of red and white, the expref
i*on* of every pafiton by greater or less fuffufions
cl colter in-the one, preiw«Uleto that eternal mo-
I *lwh reigns in the to«mcn;rce«, iftit
• immovable veil of black which covert SlUhc cmo.
- itonsol the other race f Add to ihefe, finding halir
a more elegant lymineuy fnriji, their nun rnit
mntmjamrojtketuhuu, d-cu.td by 16,/p'.
• teiem-c ol ibem as unilomity »s is lie pctcrzvu at
\"" Orm-OoHnJor the Hack women ourtut,ft olk„
. »*■» Jpec,es. Tliec.icumiUoceoi fupe, 10, beauty
j>• thought worthy attention , n the propagation ot
our tmifn, dogs and other domestic animals
why not in that „l ? Brides tnofe of cttou'r \
| fig"" 'here are other phrjtca/ dijittittns
!" am 'g * t'Jerence oj rait; they have Iris hair on
jiKeh.ee am. body ; ,k tJ Lcrct Ufjty the hidnieJ, and \
more by the g landJ of the Jim, which gives th,» a try 1
tttmg mUHftgrteM oJtun They , r e more to- '
lerar.t .* hi~i,«.d IH»Joot ci>ld,ttun the whites; 1
perhaps own ' to a difference Its Jlruiturt in the pu/. (
mvnary apparatus.-, j i>ey j,. moit aukac alui 11*11 1
emale ; then gnefs arc uaolkhi j in general their '
existence appears to pmti c | p „ c more nf fenfatton *
than reflection. They are in no/on much in/enor t
to the uhita, as I ih.nk one could scarcely be lound <■
capable ol traciogaod comprehending ihe lnvetti
gdiionaaf Etfclid ; in imagination they aic dull,
' Many have been brought' I
'IP '9 bttidityift arts; some have been liberally
educated, and att (m America)have lived in coun
tries where the wu ao«l sciences are cultivated to
a considerable degree, and have had before their
ryes lamplcs of the best works from abroad. The
Indians, with no advantage* of this kind, will o»-
ten cai vf figures on their pipes,not ddtitute ol d< -
(ign arid merit; they will crayon out an animal,
a plant, 01 a country, so as to prove theexill. net
ot a germ in their minds, which only wants culti
vation. They aftnniOi you with (Irokes of ihe
most fobt'me oratory,luch as prove their realm
and fentimcni flrong, their imagination glowing
and elevated ; but never yet could 1 find that
a Hack had uttered a thought above the level ol
plain narration, never fee even an elementary trait
of painting or fculpturc. Love, is the peculiar
oellriim of the poet. Their Jove is ardeni, but ii
k.ndlesthe senses only, not the imagination. Rt.
ligion indeed has produced a PkiUis Xheaity, htit
It rOuld not -oiorfuce a poet ; ihe comppfi't,,*,-
published under her name, art behmj the dignity 0/
critieifik. Ignatius Sancho has approachcd nearer
to merit in his completion. Tho' we admit liim
to ihe 6rft placi among those of his own colour
who have presented ihetnfelves to thepoblic judg
ment, yet when we compare him with the writers
of the race among whom he lived, and particular
ly; with thr ep.ttolary class in which he has taken
bis own (land, we are compelled to enroll him at
the bottom oj tht jtolumv.*-* This criticism supposes I
ihe lelicrs puulilhcd under his name to fee -genuine,
and to have received amendment from nftother
t'and, peintsaf/nch wouldnot he tf eafyineiejKgatibtt.
(The lame mfv peitftpthc fatd'al ileuuuvin Ban
tu kcr s almanac J The :nvjtq\'< nigQi oMJk
blacks rn body and mind, in the fjrtt irrftarvct ol
I heir mixture win).-it* whites, has bren obftned
by every one, and prefertttH-tkeir iiptimty is not
the eged nurety nj their condition IXe. Among the
Romans, 1 hf„;r jlavts wercolten thrtr rarejt prt'JQ ~
'hVf 1 xcetled too in (*cießce,i(t'omßcl)"sS ff! be'a&i.'
'My as tutors to their rfiattei's r.hildieo ;
Eniftetus, Teience and Plioed.us, were (lives ; but
' he V were of ihe race oj tohttqs It h not their ,con
dition then, hut nature tihjch ha< produced the dijlivc
tion. ' j
Tffs nor againtTexpeHence to suppose that J/f.
ferentf pedes of the fame genus, or varieties of the
fmejpecies, may uoffefs different qualifications.
Will.not a iover of natural history tlrn, one who
| views the gradations in all the races of animals
wiib th« eye of philosophy, ex cafe an effort to keep'
1 hose in the department of man as iiflintt as naturei
has formed them : this unfortunate difference of co- '
lout, and perhaps ol faculty, is a powerful obflacU
to the emancipation cj these people. Many.of iheir
idvocates, while they wiih to vindicate the liberty
of human nature, are anxious also to preserve its
dignity and beauty. Some of these, embai raffed t>y
th question—What further is to be done with
rhem ?' join thcml'clvis tn oppofuion wiih those
who a&u-ated by loidid avarice only. Among
• he Romans, ( mancipation icquirrd but one tffor;.
The Have, when made free, might nvx vi 4», rvtth
"tflainipg the blood oj his mafter\ hut with us, a
fcond is necejjars, unknown to hijiory\ w hen freed,
jhr is to he it-moved »" \ <»nci h- reach of-mixture."
How docs this la'll Tentirneni ,n_cmd wilh the
■following wilh',- expwffcd in the Sorretai* 61
Stale' leuei 10 Benjamin ihe iwflro I can
add wilh truth that no body u tOuS'inore Mdt inly
to fee a good system commenced loi raifmg ihe
condition boA of their body and mind u> what
it ought to hr, as last as the l imbrellity of their
prrfcut cx'ltin, e, and other citaimftMH* which
cannoi be ticgK tied, will admit."
Probably some ingenious l r iend may reconcilr
his apparent tr,( or.filVenry, with as mucli plauii
biltfy as 14 A'ijl'de»" icconciled the letter* about
•he French debt lo the principles of honcftv. and
lie letters about th: adoption of the Conftnution
o an attachment o the federal government. If
so, it wtll give great plcafu»e to a friend io pWIiW
lophical as well a* political CONSISTENCY.
Philadelphia, o£t. 24.
Abflra ft of further European Intelligence, by the Ship
Kitty y fiom Liverpool.
Paris, Aug. 23. The King and Queen con
tinue in the apartments of the temple; some
nyfterious appearances in their conduit and
that of their servants, have led to mcafures
providing for their further security ; a wall is
to be eretted outside of the fofre now digging
round their garden. The National Aflenibly
has publilhed an adclreft to the \yarld fitting the
and causes which led to the depo
wton of the King. The new Criminal tribunal
is inceilantly employed in trying ihe persons ar
rested on fufpiei >11 of a treacherous correspon
dence with the executive power, previous to
the affair of the iDth August ; the place de Ca
rousel the fesne of that day's battle is to be the
nlace of execution : A verditt has been given
i,. against M. D'Aigrement, who was beheaded
tlie fame night in the above place ; the real
name of this person was Collinot.
M. de la Fayette having founded the dispo
sition of his army, found them nearly unani
mous for supporting the National AlTemblyj he
is fled, accompanied only by his etat Major.—
167
gf ft,
T l?n''
gWSMIStS^&.
paraMßx^fe-ttf'
£lt^ r -rredeJ a.
" Wourti- ort)< -' r «<i to ba 'telealed ■
feSffT **&«**!«* '•*« Jn-
Mlirtix ~t the National Aflembly.
All tne Swiss regiments latelv in the service
■Lf- ra k C T 3 l e bro i e V s«!
pall ' 10rt,; fw li * P ur pose
H '^"a 6 " .^ he K ' ng hav|n g demand-:
i e Sur M ! " '' h,m > " s moved in
the Alterably that the money (hould be „ ivetl I
hut not into the hands of the King, who might
f * ke U ( -. o lt to corrupt 'his guards, and fend
(ptterj oi information to the'enemy; it was
theret»re ordered to be paid into the hand, of
Commissioners for his use. According to letters
flncc of the King, which
ire said to have been found in the palace, it ap
ttajsthat a plan was concerted and nearlv rea
•for execution, which v/ould have ended in a
(>n«ral massacre of all that opposed the King's
Mower-—in which cafe it is probable many mem-
Oers ol the National AlTembly would have been
V-rigced —Time will ascertain the truth of
neie reports.
tCapt. Brookhoufe, iirnved at Salem from Havre
r-G.acc, fays, ,hat the ta.nilyoi M. dc la Fayette
■<mb»rked privately it Havre-de-Graee for Eng.
££££ 23d Ausuft - a,>d h^ pi 'y s ot awa^
VErtfaft ef a Utter, dated New-York, 18Ik Oefoitr,
I 1 79--
' Script, the fcwnd
[made, 21 Dollais."
&'™( l of a letter from Havre, to a gentleman in
BoJloßy daltd Au-guji 25, *792 -
.. «' I arrived here from Pans lail evening-where
, vc """<««» 'he moil dreadful scenes of i u .
mult, outragiW.eiv.i war. [The*,i,er he,e
details the events of the Augnff; sfld ihofr
wh'ch followed, to the imprilonmentot the Frcnch
King,—of whom he writes:—] "The King in
now a prisoner ; he is lo be tried, and if found
guilty they mean to On-King him, and let h.m go
where he pleafes—lf not, they will allow him a
pension to live on, like any private man.
• " The Marquis la Fayette, with about 300 of
t"S principal officers, have made their escape by
«ie lollowmg stratagem. As soon as the Marquis
geard that the King was dethroned, and that Com-
Jiiffjries were on their way 10 the army, he Tent
jbtine df his officers to Sedan, to detain them—he
tjien proposed to the army that Paris was in a dif.
trtfied situation—and wished to know if they
fl>«old mttch lo its relief; which they refuTed.
He.then fentto the officers at Sedan, to fend on
KWons to perflate the Commissaries, with a
l»iy.fabricated for the purpose to the army—and
while Ihefe pretended Comriiiflaries were negoci
with the army, the Marquis and his
fiends u>*de their escape."
'&r ax of the Return'; of vote-, frsr TVlemTwrs
of Congress for the State of Pennsylvania,
excepting the counties of Alleghany and Hu
ntingdon.
D. Heifter
\ W» Findley
F. A. Muhlenberg
W. Irvine
J. \V. Kittera
T. Hartley
P. Muhlenberg
A. Gregg
T. Fitzfimons
W. Montgomery
T. Scott
J. Smilie
J. Avmftrong
J. D. Sergeant
C. Thompson
S. Sitgreaves
11. Wynkoop
J. Barclay
W. Bingham
COMMUNICATIONS.
After the compleat refutation of
the charge which has so frequently
been brought against a certain pub
lic officei, of his being an advocate
for the doctrine that " public debts
are public blessings," the reiteration
of the aflertion on the part of our
anarchy-men, difcoveisa difpoHtion
exactly on a level with the old wo
man's, who being charged not to fay
lanotherI another crooked word, ciied out—
" Rams horns, if 1 die for it."
A writer in a Bolton paper, speak
ing of the National Bank, fays, the
" Uiiectors are principally members
of Congress." This is one, among
many of the unqualified untruths
which support the opposition to the
measures of the general government.
The fatSt is, that not one third of the
Directors are members of Congreft.
The experience of France is a les
son to all mankind ; and if they will
not improve it to their own advan
tage, it will bebecaufe kingdoms and
states are so blind and corrupt, that
they are unprepared for, and unwor
thy of the bleflings of free and just
government. The arbitrary govern
ments of Europeought totake solemn
warning in due season, and by relin
jquifhing their afl'umed powers, by
Kvbich they uniuftly dispose of the
Ijves, liberties and pro;*rties of tlie
pe°pit ameliorate the condition of
-heir fulqects- and by -dimiuifhing
<heir fenle of injury, and encreafing
their means of enjoynient, attach
10 Mthoriijr from convic
tion and sentiment, rather than by
the force of power and the terror of
arm*. Those governments called
tree, should eradicate exitting abuse*
which have no plea for their conti
nuance, but precedent and the rult
of antiquity—they should accommo
date their laws wore and more to
promoting the etfemial inteielis of
the great body of the people—to ele
vating the poor on the pillars of
knowledge and equal rights—lo dif
fufing general light and information
among the people—for no govern
ment, however just, and much lels
an oppreflive one, can be permanent,
that is not founded on the enlight
ened attachment of the people. In
ihis way alone, can ihofe iultiiutious
be preserved which are founded on
the immutable principles of huinart
nature—ftnee ignorance, in its p».
roxy fins of frenzy, will level in indis
criminate ruin, the establishments of
I wisdom and patriotism, as well as the
impofuions of despotism. An en
lightened people can alone appreci
ate the importance of a government
of laws—ignorance is the loij which
produces demagogues, parties and
uncontrolled ariflocracies, and which
in the end invariably produce des
potism.
The experience of France and oF
other countries, ihould infpiie the
people of the United [states with the
highcfl veneration for their own free
eletftive government—and make them
more and more solicitous to preserve
in violate the sacred right offuffrage
and here again the immense impor
tance of information and general
knowledge among the people, is strik
ingly apparent—for wiihout these,
this inestimable right will be proflri
tuted to party purposes, and to the
fubvertion of the constitution and the
public liberty.
TO THE EDITOR Of THE GAZETTE OF THE
UNITED STATES.
Bed jot d y OQobtr 14, 1792,
Sir, *
.CAPTAIN JOHN STAKE having resigned
hia cwtMU.»«V» ra t4n y yy >"■ r
fend you for publication the following Letters
which passed between the Commander in Chief
and that Officer on the occasion—
And am, Sir,
Your unknown friend,
30878
3°797
3 0 565
29588
28517
27128
21279
SIR,
'6755
I received your letter of the 29th ultimo, re
queuing permifiion " to resign the Commission
yon bear in the service of the United States'."
It is always with concern and regret, that I
hear of the intended relignatton of an experi
enced and gallant officer I have therefore gi
ven you time tor reflexion,previoufiy to accept
ing of your resignation, and hope that you have
seriously reconlidered this bufipefs, and that
you will not quit the service of your country at
this crtjis ; but fltould you continue in the fame
determinatioH, as when you wrote that letter,
I will comply with your request.
Y(?U will therefore pjeafe to faror me with
your filial decilior, as soon as convenient.
Interim, I am Sir,
Witii esteem and refpeft,
Your most obedient,
Humble servant
16696
16288
16048
' x 6°33
158V3
M 995
14874
14882
14412
14. Pl
r 39J4
Sir,
NOTHING could hare, added more 14 f)*.
pain I feel on leaving the arjny at the
period, than the ftntiments contained iu yoijr
letter to me of the firft instant.
And was it poflible for any thing to f\ray mr
from my purpose, it would be your Excellency's
kind felicitation.—But my mind is mide up,
and my arrangements made accordingly,fo that
I find it impoffibie for me to recede from my
firft determination, and I trust Sir, that you
will not accu r e me of obftinacv, in again follcit
ing your Excellency's acceptance of my ap
pointment, but attribute it to the delicacy of
those feelings which (hould eier inherit the
breast of a soldier.
I am, Sir,
With the ffKi# perfect eften^.
Your obedient, and very
Humble feryant,
JOHN STAKE, C. I. D.„d
Sub. Legion u. S. Amy.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Philadelphia Packer, Rice, Amfterdagri
Kitty,
Brig Bcifey,
Sophia,
Paffy,
Schr. Alice,
£3" Price oj Stach as is Gazette oj the 1 ytk irjl.
(CopY.)
HEAD QUARTERS.
ift Oft. i; 92.
ANTHONY "WAYNE.
(COPY.)
Diagom £tuamfmcrt,o3. 4, 1798.
SHIP NEWS.
Reynold,
Ruffd,
Price,
Fowler,
' Nccdtiafn,
Liverpool
ditto
C. Franco!*
Made in
Providence
W. Et
LI2L
*
LONDON, Angult 18. j
MOVEMtNfS OF THE AUSTRIA ANP
rxt'ssi A N ARM I tS.
ON tlie 29c h of the whole
Prui]i*n avmy quitif J their camps,
near Co'oleiiiz, inul commenced their
inarch in three columns lowaiils me
frontiers ot France.
I be Aultriau army iim!er I'rince
lloheulolie, marched Jrom ilieircanip
imar lyianheim, iu llis night ol the lit
ufi Angult.
The Anitriau army- detliived to iK r t
France, in Anterior Anftria,
and along the Rhine to the Nethei
] inds, coniiflsof 126,470 men.
This army has a train conjiiting of
fotjr htiiidr.cd pieces of cannon. In
palling the Rhine at day break, on
live 2d, tUey left the baggage behind,
which proves (hut chey havefome en
terpvife of moment in contemplation
It is Cu-ppofed that it is an attempt
upon Landau;
11 rftead of the Spaniards being nrn
trwl, they have an jrnry of 20,000
rtffcnat Cairua ; M. de .Caramon and
onhtr emigrants attheir hdad. Die
advanced guard of 5000 .has marched
for Aloiit L-onis.
The French citizens areflying from
every pnrfcof the kingdom rot he Iron
tiers, and all the departments are ex
erting tliemfelvcs with unexampled
and unabating zeal.
That of Vofges being required to
furnifli 6000 National Guards, obey
ed the retjui{jtion by lending nine
thousand men.
In another part of the kingdom,
6000 armed citizens were raised in a
few hours,and in fixdays afterwards
arrived ac the frontiers.
t li.lj IHI '.Jll: Hi
•Int.**
CHARLESTON, OtlStfeV j.
MLO{MGSfREE;T, of Augusta,
. lias announced to ihe, pub 1i f
that he has lately compleafed, in mi
niature, his newly invented ileam en
gine, calculated-for moving all kinds
of heavy machinery ; of which he
gives the following accsiihr, in the
Augusta Chronicle of the 22d ult.
" This engine is so co'ivlt ringed and
arpprminii-nrwT; —zrsr T?T"per7r>rlfrTroni
40 to strokes With each in a mi
nute, without the complication of
wheels, cogs or cranks ; and all its
operations are managed by a fit'«le
cock.
" This machine is so very simple
in irs condrudion, 'that it is immate
rial whether the cylinders are wood
or metal, nor do I care much of what
shape they are: and in the work
tfianlhip of all the parts (except the
c ff.k) ! "fre is very little accuracy re
quired.
I /hail only observe in this mere
iketrh, th:ir, from my own knowledge
erf the difFei enr nifethods heretofore
prartifed in theapplicarioti of steam,
that none is more simple, nor none
vyhereby the fame qtiahtity is mors
advantageously applied, than on m'v!
pritfciples; as I aai convinced that
theentire fritffion of a machine, whose
cylinders were ,6' (>r ,8 inches in di
ameter, would not exceed two htin
' J?- t>t,n .^ s "'eight, independent of
its-fiein-jv tipplied to any machinery.
I have so ordered and arranged
the diflerent parts, that if any one
fhnuld get out of repair (which by
rhe by they are not very fubjeil to)
each enn ]>e get at and receive fucTi
) epairs as tKey Irand in need of, with
out interrupting the other parts.—
Such is mv confidence wirli refpetfi to
the fliccHs of this m-nrhine, thar 1
win venture to aver, that for five
hundred pounds one may be made
and kept in repair (our years, that
will be capable of grinding Isobu(h
-els ot grain per day ; or favv 2COO
seer of inch boards in the fame tirtie ;
and I would add, if it was not for fear
of being accused with a balloon or
(team-boat project, ho.w easily I could
apply ir to boating
" This machinc is now finiflied,
and at my house in Angulta, where
it can be seen by all those that have
?ny doubts with to the an
thenticity of what I fay.
"Ww«. LONGSTREET."
6-3 TV JOURS'AL tf the THiRD SISSJOA'i
«/ the SF.XATt of the UNITED STATES, may i<
had of tic Editor hettof.
Grand Family Bible.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY J?'o ifjC RIPTION,
An EL KG Ah'TE.DI / /(J -V" uj thc
SACRED SCRIPTURES
CJt ihtf OLD and NEW ThS i'AME N'TS, wmU h
Apocrypha,
&n n very lur \c and bcJnii/u! ri'tw ondJ'uperJiQf
Puh «./
THE Os-she IW,y Swipiuies,
interfiling I" tv ci yi ;id'. v >4 u.'i, f -Irt; c w Ulc » Xyt
4inr.e,of its dcifinntl»;>d precepts, ; tjif beauty-.
iu palT>ge«, ha'vcTp.Uvog made u
!j apltel 'HfttmnA, « !o -pKoi od*o*s??,
!l<M'of ' /
"fh'r. piefyt>r e'merpriie of irtflfiV'iduaH has pre
feMwt'lHi-' f«»ifiiaHe',W»k to in a vj
itt'vofToVmi : iflfiJnie ediri'iM'it KasVcfij
v ti"fecllHtirtl Willi fupcrb
eHhancid rii orrcr; W Wto»*wWf'll
! ttcotn(bnf*o ««•* VohMtthioWf "e'flin'tiiehMrtrt,-
vhis* rwvfffjri''y eocrsafid i be'rilt^; WUiW » ♦l
!ri«y wEi|>!»triloh«n»! c <»p& r » bi*e
,i |V jte 'of it* Scrt(jmre,aiwi' ttwthftlW
:|ur«l«fc'cafyi to f*ery flaT#.
1 '"Without wifhjng in the frawUtft cif^iw-tw^ir^ii
the merits of the various editions, whrth»(~i»l«i«
Mr ornamented, which. the public arc already in
lPaff<-flst«w-of,'«■ is ioilineiv K>.»M»*rk» thaiiwtry
judgment h#v®t*-pr«(l»«i
./ wifli. tor.a jamilv Bible unci)cuinbcr.e<l with*4v
'diiip/i«. Tiiere Hill appran room for »po»ll»»
edition on a 'beautiful new 1 vpr. fuperim in 6tr|
; *nd elegance to any bibie.that.has yel been printed
in 1 thc,{«itgli#i laogrtawr. -aiHl .^lwhisUetvNnf-the ;
adventitious rircumftanf«frnt ornament or com-j
meat, m<vy exhibit iheOraclet of Gtd'ie tJbcill »»- j
'the timpliciryv ' - ? ■>*
SPECIMEN OF THE TYPE.
5 *\\ And God fa id,
'Let there be light: and
there was light.
With refpc£lful fubmiflion to the judgment and
,candoui of the public, the following propoials aic
offered:
I. TJie woik (hall be printed with the grratcft
1 ndcl.uy. and attention rp corrtanefs both in the
itixt and marcm-d references, on a fupcrßne Paper
I made on purpose, with an elegant new I) pe cast
ll'oi the. work of'the size of the above Specimen.
11, The woik will be comprised in twenty*
'numbers, inAing two elegant volumes in Folio;
Ito be fur nifhed to ful)ifci ibers at one dollar each
i number. To prrvent .my complaints of want of
;JuwciiiaiUy, no part of the work wll be delivered
unfef pa.idior.
til. The si ll number, comainiing sixty folio
el gently piimcd* will be funiilhed on the
lirft Saiurday «»f July next, when fubferibers arc
to pay the price of the firlt and second numbers.
j*'nd the pi ice of one number to b'' always in ad
j vanrc I'll the work is completed. The fubfequeni
uvl»e .pubJipiecl regularly on the fir it Sa-.
Uirday ot each fuccecdiug moQth, till the whole
is 'fin i uk d.
Subscriptions will be received in Philadel
phia by the Publifheis, Thomas DobsT) n, No, 41,
3 lUtHSecouii-fticet, and John Pakkik, No. 259.
JJorth Stcond-ftreet ; and hy all the 3°°k/clle)s :
ui ChjrleHon,by William P. Young; Richmond,
fcjv Aichibald Currie ; Baltimore, by James K'ce :
fa'ilmington, by Peter B»ynberg ; New-Voik, by
) homas Allen ; New-Haven, bv Ilaac Beers;
PiovidVnre,*(R. I.) by William WflkVnfon; Sa
fs'tn, by Ttiovnas Cufhmg ; Boston, "by David
Weft, B t njainin GuMd, and Thomas & Andrews.
i oo Dollars Reward.
T OST on Cambridge Commnn, Maftacbufetts.
mm tlx.' -tiernoon of the i ult. a Morocco
POCJF KT-BOOK, with a flee! clalp,
3 number of valuable papers, nrpopg which- tvere
the »o 1,0 Public Secu r t t'i es, viz.
Mrffucljjiietts State Notes— No. £.405, dated
Derembcr 1, 1782, payable to Thomas Grccnivood,
for/.23 i6j. principal—\ ? o. 20..399, dated Ja
i wary 1, 1 payable to Nathaniel Partridge, for
£ 10 tor. pi mcipaK — No. , dared Januaty
; , 1782, "fan nrrrty nbtc) payable in finothy Hou.-
ar'd,'f*Vf .ÜBv. id. 1 rtt 1 p^fl.—i&h. , a N«t(
('he number, date, arjd to wham payable, not
V.no\rii) ior 3 os. 3d. pi iocjpal.—One Indent,
Ci r'lficate !or Four Dollais, and a Sjew-Uampt
fli 11 (r C( rt itlc'ate 'for aboui £.\2 pavaoje lo John
arid Danrd Jcvks ;4Wo anm niter o! Noirs rrf Hand J
''ne o! which was for given t>y*Aftilh&ts
JiW/j! butyUtl 11. Pcnscro] (hy whom it was cru
dy'letl) clatrd ift M*iy 4 'and. payable on ihe
i itli Augufi following ; the others were allpaya
■!.r lo I»He Sfattferfty+f; "phfc are checked
H-Oie diiFlrem. joffjers *'«im Whence they Were
1 (Tued, airtj (be Notes Hand by tfce different
hgneu, they can therefore be o't no use to any but
the owiyer.
thc'Sußf nker"hereby off; is a reward of On*
nDivUß'iij 1)01,1 a rs ( 0 pei foii or'perTorfs
who has found the fame,ip<\ will'fttHm'them ip
him, 01 le:iv« them wiih (he Printer hercoJ, ind
mo tjucftioni w U be asked.
.... ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Sa/ttn, Nalfa'clltjfetls, Augtijt i, ,jn2. Yeptf)
— '—— i a : 1 - ii_
,F, T "f l tTr i ,h " Gt " a " rt T»./b
all thpje oI h„ SMrmers, uihofe accost, are J o l t .
■ a 'Y}v d l cll « r S' them "M
A,iyAl<nt ■ekfiMreH'/o fcl/tffmMitsJbr'tHifiater
lluifompmnaitstuicbtUmaki, Vmtd>gTeatti M?e
.mhlia'lMlvg the Jams. received) end tie mimes d
"" H labels tohq harp paid.
nyieevn*r,mef*t&lr e Uetensc»i is due tt title
a*w paoduhM has ehiHtd thi t.fitcr lf.Ur firb
comme thtfuUitatim - tit i, Mfetb Ufetvi tUi
MgteM ts the evince attending ui f,r^i, U i oni M J
if S «"<*"'< °J arrearages, that umcfs a canfUera
''■UrK'n i I "™°"" '(■•lced, it Kill it
>klmfMt>pr him U cikhhvt th- Cdzetfe Mtfi any ,
ft fence to a difimt and eytcnfrt arlMon
(p7* The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars t>,,
avi.vir.~Oni hat] to htftui at'lie tint offuifcribi vg.
168
To the Public.
THE fiibfcribw rewms hi" "'.oft relpfftfu!
compliment; to 'lis friends and the public,
'.jV-t'he many -favors lie has received, and begs
,'ive to inform them that he has upon hand a
lew fine toned
Forte Pianos,
■rhich be will warrant superior to any imported,
i,id which he will di'po'e of on resfon»ble ternr..
The P.reat number of Forte Pianos lately
;sported f.OTU London and Dublin) induces the
i üblcriber to caution the public against the art
i infipuation*: of jjerfons commilliooed to vend
t'lem—who, for a very trifling competition,
Mcouimeiul instruments that ar: nothing but
t'ie refule the European IVtufic-Shops, and
:!nport?d at amere trifle, and fold for the fame
price a-, a good inftrnnient, to the great difap-
Jjointinent of the ignorant purohafer, who ge
nerally pays as much for repair-, in a year 01
two, as the original cost of a good instrument.
N. B. Musical Instruments let out by the
;ftonfh or quarter, likewise Mulical Instruments
tuned and repaired in the befl manner, and on
the nioil realisable terms, by
CHARLES TAWES,
[4t] No. Walnut, near Third-Street.
John Gould,
R AIR-DRESSER,
INFORMS bis friends and the public in gene
ral, that he continues to carry ojihis bulinefs
as usual, at No. I, South Third-Street, near
Market-Street, and thanks his former customers
for the favors he has received.
j Said GovLd has for sale, an infallible cure for
"\Veak or Sore Eyes, which on trial, has and will
be found to aniwer the purpose.—He has it in
i vials frorii one quarter of a dollar a dollar.—
i Any person trying the above, if not found to
janfiver the chara&er given, the money will be
returned. [tf]
NEW TEA S.
! MPERIA L,HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Of the very fiiO quality, and lateit importation
frbm Canton, via Ncvv-Yoik, by jetail, m
No 19,
Third, between Chcfnut and Mark-ci Sheets.
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-ftrect, New-York,
r Sabfcribcr intending to confine h.imfcK
JL entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, B< gyleave 10 off( r
his Icrvices to hjs friends and otheis, in the lint
of a Stock Broker. Those who inay pdeafe to fa
vor nirn with thrir bufmef>, may depend upon
having ittranfadVeU with the utrnoil -fidelity and
difpa.rch.
Orders from Philodclphia.Bofton, orany njber
pait of the United States will be ftri&ly attend
ed to.
I.EONA'RD bleaker.
(MO
May 2.
P L A
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksiilers, \
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG % (j CRI'I^HAKK.
BONN'S FXtIIBITION OF
w ax-Work & Paintings,
AT the Hbufe lately occupied by Mt*s. Pike,
in Eighth-street, is now ready for the en
tertainment of the Public Among a great
variety of Painting':, are a number of
ITALIAN ir FRENCH PIECES,
which are new and very -pieafing.
Also, a large collection of
NEW WAX FIGURES.
The Exhibition is open every day, from n-ine
o'clock in the morning* until nine in the even
'ijaij. n Admittance Half a Dollar for Ladies
apd Gentlemen, and half -ptico fop Children.
Tickets for the •fcsrfbfr, (not transferable)
Two- Dollars.
Likenesses of ti-.e presiqen t of the
UNITED STATES,
And a'variety of Elegant PRINTS in Frames
Sept. 21. ( cptl ')
The SUBSCRIBERS to [He
Universal Tontine
Are inforrt)t <!, th>ac a general meeting is to be bqld
as the Suic-Houfe in on Saturday the 3d
day of November next, at 10 o'clock,' A. M. 1
agreeably (o the sixth article of thgir affopiation.
X»y <»r'der ut the Agent*,
'' Etffettfcgfrß HAzARD, SccVy,' !
Philadelphia; Sept. 179,2. *
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by TtfOMAS DOBSOJC, and oilier
Booklclier.% m Philadelphia,
A Collection of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPli
i~A. RI I-U AL'SGNO-vS - feleOed from'different
Authors, and puhhilred by Order of the
vt titioH boMihgjhe Define Of the Salvation oj
all Men, nut in Philadelphia; Nlav .9.5, 1791.
Price of ahngle book,- b*>fcr-nd; g-Bth*> (tf a £)olhfn\
with good allowance taihofe vvtio takequantities'.
A *2 4- (eptf.)
800 K $
rKINTID AND ioLD LY ' '
MATH E W C A R P; Y
A'». . , 8, Ulrht-Sjyea,
'■ A MERICANMOKUfcM.
a Imciu in anuarvi7B- in i
•j— v..:,
hilars and U.■ t«-fi 1,1,7 >Ut '•
i hu wck, uh-ch«„n W
prov.d pun, pilccs
wi.l befoijtid'to coitiain at leall as
of poltl !C »l».griculH Va |,ind mifctifewus
as any ever pttbltlhed America |'£>!?•
-n« »brl„iU,,y oUh„ ; ,o.u l „r V >„l la
His t-Xfclknci the Prudent dl the UnM.d?!
hardcclared of it, that
plan has ntVer been tindcrtakt n in America ■»!
on, more driving publ , c cnr
Hie liibfcripiion ii , w „ dollar, aud a 'half p t (
ami. Genucmen ,n the country wlm '
>e Applied with this work, art. requeM to*giv«
commtflion to fnends in ,hc city ( 0 fibferib® of
and receive it* Any of the hack Humbert
may be had lo order to com plete (eft,
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on lfa»L
• ng and the ol Children.
" V. e recortimetid these lelte.rs to (be perufU of
w nom theyurr pariitolarlvartdr'tlTed
RCV ' CW '' ,0U SB ' P " io '—P'«», bound,
3' Ouncari's FJemcntsnf Icreic— 7,:«...
4. Bennies of Fielding— co cents.
5. Beamfoj df Blair..-50 ctntj.*
6. La dun 1 ' Fockc't Library,• con[*infn,.KjM
a/ 3 '"' R ( J re^°,^'! ' b'W' U<i y Pwning.
wn s Advice,March,„f u-ben', A d,jct
Swift SEetier to a neiyty rfiarried ladv,M,i.Clij,
poor 011 command of Te(rip<r, More's Fables for
the La^i<■»! >ftrjoe .
• 1. $n>ii lv'iUjftcry qf : Ntw-Vock.. fcic«adol
.Ur.aiid a qu>f«r., . . , r
6. Elements of 5-loTal Scien«, fc y
•tir. L. L D. profeflor of purril pbilofoph y anA
lojjit in (he Ma ritetia) College, At)wrt«ji...Pric«
jthrce-rfourt.bt «f a doljat. Ol rfiii hook it,*
(Criticalßeviewers (vol. 69, p. v Wt
have seen nothing, on' thefc I'ubjrftj fpoft plain
jmbre perfpicuoijs, or more gr-nfrafly ufcf ß
N. .ft. Ft is introduced into tW Ditivrttity
.latlclphia. ■ ' . ,
.a. Bcautita pf' Poetry. , P,f(e 0 f <
dollar.
le). PrTcc liyp'd'cjtfiirV. ' f .
■ 11.' Mrckrr's Treaufcoir t hr.impohtnrpbf Rep
dellar. I
le-jifMnjijatiyuoftjie Obfe»Y»twi| *t JLorlt
Sheffield OH
fine paper, $ gihs of a ioljjr.
13. Thr Cotifti'rurimnofttif'ftvtfiiUJnitrtl Srjtes,
wuhriie F<-<lc.r»l CtotiAhwiuH, Ac. Price frve
icigihlltsjof 1 ekoljar. . *1
14. M'Fmgal. Pi ire three-eighths of a rfojlar.
15. American JeR Book. Pricc tlireeHHPihso/
a rfolfar.
16. Garden of thr So-iil. Price half a dollar.
r>7 Tbe.Ooway T:rai)ft»tio»pfjMw'Vplgate Bi
ble,in qMrfo ? -Piiqr,eie^oily.bofcipd l iifi^letl«-
id, 50/2 —plain, fix dollar*.
18. Devout Cnriitian's Vadc Mecum—Price a
quarter dollar.
i J 9- Think I on'r. Price a quarter dollar.
2D. Ch iihap Economy. Pricc ,a fiflhof
21. Hillory of Charles Grurrdifon, abridged—
Price a of a dollar.
if.. Poems by Cdl. Humphreys— Price'.a third
o! a doJlar.
N S
2j3: Scleft Poems, ofikfty American—Piicca
fixih of a dollar,
S>ir] Carey has for Me, 3 afTortn>cnt of
BtfoksJ European « writ as American editions,
which he will difpole of on the moll reafonabfe
'ternjs. Country grntlrjncn, whpfd.vor Kim with
rommarnjs, jnav depend upoa .heiqg Applied jfk
rhe nfoft fa! isfactor y mantu <. A J» her a 1 ajiowanpe
to fuclvas pfurch:'ife -quantities" for public libraries
j or a^^in.
ro* BY iOdsCRIfrTJON,
I n ibe C<w,rrtoti.weaUh ofjA]
hr thy DISCIPLINE vf the ARTIIXKYmA
UNITED STATES fj_ AMERICA;
THE YOU-XC ARTILIER FST'S FDC KIT
Part theory and prjflicc
of li»ht .fifW avtiilrry.
- Part •; Containing the iliforr »«<f p"« ,rto '
: to which will be addfd, an
Ma# of a Trratifron the origin and P n " r !^! c 0
CoiirtarMarti-aly wrote by an expmrncra < <"
and who did duty as Judgc-A voca -
in America. , . . . .
Part 'J! Laboratory duly ; ,
net of.tlirr&iflns for cotnpofition-,a
amli* i»l fire-work®,-and ttt orl " ,
of. ammunition for the kihw* *
fiv W ILL lAM ST I 71 A'S,
An Officer in ,he American fj' t je
whole of the late Revolution, afldW 1 ! in
Militia. .
na*icr.
CONDITIONS. '-[.1.,.
This work to be printed in
handsome type, jeatly
three p'ueket volwnes, cont a uii ngu
tkmTEnd pages; illustrated
of explanatory plaies, execute* hs,£ r '
The price to fu!>fcribcrs,o»f
-to non-rubfc.iben, C >" fc «, (hall
| llmr : and tbofe who fubfcr.be for fWep,
have ast vent h gratn. ■ , . f oofUS five
This work (hall be pubbfted as low
hundred copies are rubfcriM for \ , the
Sublcriotio'i papers "."'I b< j '® £ tJI , U,iied
oiincipul Printers aud Bookfcik"
States of America. | —
-yy The Iki>»* «** , J"r%6-,'«*»
ztir.WcbM G ' vi J TT , ' ''."nj,
<WW,o vbrnUndHh*!--" 1,1
PROPOSALS
E M
ASY S T
COMPANION.
J 7f Tp !}££' rA,R.TS<