•>^ i -
s*s
¥S>
ofs
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATI'R DAY*i BY .. ;___„
-— 10HN FFNt >O, No. 34. NOPi'H FIFTH-STREET, PHILADh 1 PHI -v
[No. 57 of Vol. IV.]
The following Tabhs are connected with the Report
pj the Secretary of the Treasury on the Redemption
ef the Public Debt—pub!Jhed iu our hjl Gazette.
TABLE Ihewing the effect of a sum annually
created, equal to the intercft of the sum to be
redeemed within cach year, for a period of
nine years, commencing fiom the firft of Ja
nuary, l 793 —on the fuppofnion that the in
tercft on the sum annually redeemed be in
verted, as it is liberated, in the purchale of
6 per cent, flock, at the price of 22 (hillings
on the pound.
• -5
J5 > OvOO*Of^OOOO
O
*
<2 <o C* vO O O OO r-t O ts 3
" t H OO s
•3 co £
CO Cl OO Tf NO
J *** «t C* MM M Q o
H « -C
"So 2? _ C.
•»«, «-*•«*-» <2 °
?! >J >*
fc O 000 M H I>V5 O c»
5:? . 000 *" 9 M 2
"5 <* v
J5 <r> -T r~ <> *T C> •
rj t to P^r)i
S i z
g 00 « o -O-O t-g H
:?-£ O 01 O -
S*S W O O 000 r« rt VO -v 5
£ r O 000 too cOO oM _G \L
5 ft o o c> o co o m osvo o ~<
fa "0 o N »J| 3 £
ioOOMioOsrOOOC«C*a, Z .
>0'0 , 0 , 0 , 0 NNM M
5i M
rfvno r- OO (> o H C
J o o* 0* o o* o* 000 — . 2;
IN IX fN IN OO COl3 r"
! «2
0-i *-*
£ «<
•§ >-.5.5.^.5.2.2.5.S" a 5
S s "cc -a -a -a -a -a -o 5 <
(V 5J O H
C -*-06
A -Z h
■3 £
•S a
£
B
TABX.F c.-hlbi'-ing 1 ■. i. „ _f the propof-d ?;»n
ol Redemption.
•*<o 0 IV 00 ci o 00 -f
J O W « T - a C')^
> w
'1: cri" iocs co o 00 co
S . CD o;. <1 r. -rcc -I CO •
£ n - .<? &> a> i-vc OC
o Q 5 ? *0 « cT JV. M CO /-K
O« t/ -CI«OO*NCN ©
w CJ
h 1
-j
B 5 ci
£ § '5 t^'<£
'32
=5.5 . 8.
"-i Qri Vj
5 M
R- w S O" O -J
j; J q o> o-. a: o £"^
c
£ -<
» i 1 - H.>
3 «• s = •«« fc - -fvo " ? <
L £ — i - c*3 01 " 10 »- n
V S >- 1 2 Jo-9. - ™ S. s
«?S"ftsS„gg «. a
*-co CO oc 00 TO -
S S-2 o O X
v v Oi
<
-.1 " w
£ c: C
=2j •o^«s, 5V P3«H g.H
5 -s so
>>o
- o
s3 u
r f; " N N N r] M o
CU
" r, "" r " r, " M tT
«52£°Scc 3
r- - - .rr .- - r: n «
cj c"O -O -C -c -3 '-5 H
' "-I
s «; oco w»o rf -
x. — 00 c; O UQ'C _, 00 «>
Os
£ . O O'OJ ni- >oic (O S
«•« ?.5, :-->w -«c o-. - M *
3 "O°.?w CO O - CTiCO
Ci cf.io d '"
<0 k-l .-cc -uo Q-, cooo ci -M t~- —;
vo <sC. (O t- f-»co o
* «
• J -£
ta
•>3 K NNN I, rsqj CO 00 'Tj "
6 c~ « " ej
- f? •
•Z b- Coco C-CCCC '^r>
•2 ~ .= .9 ~ r .5 ~
v ru
A H u
»
C
M«iie of (onjlitutmg the fropofed Annuities.
Volts. Cts.
: ?93- Surplus dividend
ol the bank Hock, b<>.
yond the intereil v. hich
wiil be payable,eftimat
"i »t - 6G,000
' 43.'99- °6
— lc 3i'S9- c 6
Saturday, December 15. 1792.
•1794. Tax
I.X -
Parr of annual intercft converted into annuity
Tax „
♦ 1
1790.
P»rt of annual interest converted into annuity
Tax _ 1
1 797
Part of annual interest converted into annuity
Tax
i 79 8 -
Fan of annual intereftconverted into annuity
Annuity of the firft year now libtuied by l eimbiiifem«,u of
the lit loan
Tax
1799,
1800.
Part of annual interrft converted into annuity
Annuity of fccond year now liberated by mmburl'cment of
the 2d loan
Pjrt of arrears of ititerft to be applied for balance of annuity
this year - 1
But a supplementary provision will be to be made for the 2d
year, equal to ihe sum dollars am', four cents, as
the fund in that particular u not annual. This may 'also
ariiV-from the arr ars oi* iotertft.
The payment to be made on the tft ol January 1802, may pro.
ceed from the following funds.
Amount of annuity of 3d year liberated by reimbursement of
the 3d loan
Unappropriated arrears of intercft
Temporary loan •
Treasury Department, Novemler 30th, 1792.
D
n ,• 1 u T '* ew , °-f Redeeming Fund, to and upon the 1(l January, 1802.
Interejl which will have been liberated by purchale, and ,„ivmen's nuo the Treasury,
excluliveol redemptions, according to the proposed plan,'
Jan .ft, 1794, by redemption of 550,000 dols. iate 6 percent.
ditto 1795, by ditto of 583.000 at ditto
ditto ,796, by ditto ef 617.980 ditto
ditto 1797, by ditto of 655,058. 80 ditto
ditto 1798, by ditto of 694.362. 33 ditto
ditto 1799. by di'io of 736,024. c; ditto
ditto 1800, by ditto of 780,185. 52 ditio
ditto 1801, by ditto of 826,996. 65 ditto
ditto 1802, by ditto of 1,1*6,616. 44 duto
Surplus dividend of bank stock beyond the interest which will be payable out ol it 95
N Annual sum at the end of 1800
EDUCATION
AN EXTRACT.
A FEW men of wit, who, in a
long intercourse with the fash
ionable world, probably for
gotten that little knowledge of the
ancient languages and authors,
which they had acquired at school,
have endeavored to bring into dis
credit the prevailing mode of edu
cation, which devotes much time to
the study of Giecian and Roman li
terature. Poflefled of natural parts,
they have perhaps, besides, enjoyed
all those advantages of good com
pany and extensive commerce jvith
the living world, which both excite,
and give occasion to display, great
abilities. They became, therefore,
d iltinguifhed characters in their
time, though their (olid attainments
were few, and greatly defective.
But, whatever figure they made,
they would have shone with ft ill
greater lustre, if they had retained
a tincture of that elegance and li
berality of sentiment, which the
mind acquires by a study of l he clas
sics, and which contributes more to
form the true gentleman, than the
Aabftituted ornamentsof modern af
fectation.
The example of these illustrious,
but fupeificial perloiifges, has in
duced every prater, who has been
tauc;ht to Idp broken French, a;-d
dance a minuet, to laugh at the lub
berly boy, as he calls him, who
spends a dczen years at school, in
225
Taxes which uqi," have iec» laid.
1793 dollars . 43, 1 99- 6
1 99»39 1 * 60
1 '5>955- »7
48
102,743. 12
107,680. 20
109,649. 32
■794,
1 795
1796
>797
I^9B
■799
Amount of Interejl converted into Annuities
1796 dollais 20,00p
>797
1798
1800
Tkeasurt Department, November 30, 1792.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
learning Greek and Latin. He un
fairly represents this time, as spent
ii acquiring the languages alone ;
ignorant that a taste is often form
ed in it for those authors, who are
able to furnifh the purest and the
mo ft elegant pleasures during the
remainder of life.
The pert vivacity of allured ig
norance has often persuaded the
fond mother to discard the tutor for
the dancing mailer ; to be more fo
licitons that the hopes of the fami
ly, the heir, perhaps, to a tide, an
estate, and even a lhare of legisla
tion, ftould be taught to hold up
his head, than be furnifhed with
those ideas and principles, which
would render him truly happy in
hiinfelf, ami an honor and advan
tage to his friends and to his coun
try.
Even among those who are fully
sensible of the neccifity of improv
ing the beauties of the mind, as
well as the graces vf the person,
there prevails a precfilecftion for
modern languages and modern li
terature to the exclusion of the an
cient. 111 the idea of these, a fuf
ficient stock of historical knowledge
is to be gained by an attention to
the events of the two or three lalt
centuries ; and a fufficiqnt acquain
tance with philosophy, and polite
learning, from a perusal of the
writers of France and Italy. Col
lections of letters and state papers,
and the epigrammatic narratives of
20,C00
♦02,912. 48
50,000
102,743. 12
90,000
107,680. 20
6 c,OOO
10 3»*99» °6
109,649.32
272,848. 38
220,000
10 9>39 l - 60
94,192. 04
•>5 955. '7
200,0C0
810,661. 27
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Dollars
50,000
90.000
240,000
380,000 dollars
Dolls. Us.
10 y»39 i * 60
11 59d5. »7
I lie hiltoi iaii of * cincy. .w ! '
ply tlic place of Herodotus, Thinj
dides, and Livy. Aiiollo, Tallo,
and Bpilean, aie to be read in pie'
lerence to Homer, Virgil, and Ho
race ; and the works of Voltaire
alone, ro be fubftiiuted in the place
of all the poetry, all the philosophy,
and all the hiltory that ever has
been written. In conftquence of
these mistaken notions, our greac
grammar fehools, which have pro
duced so many ornaments of human
nature, are exploded by many, as
the feats of illiberal manners and of
antiquated learning.
With refpeft to the charge that
illiberal manners are the difgrace
ful charai'teriftics of boys educated
ill grammar schools, I must confels
I am plea fed with the natural ftm
plicity of that age of fpriglulinefs
and inexpe-ience ; nor do 1 know a
fight more truly ridiculous, than
that of a boy of fourteen affecting
the grates, and behaving among
his Superiors in age and attainments,
with all the difguiliug ease of fcif
fufficiency.
The fame natural good sense
which makes the boy ac't in charac
ter, will teach the man a manly be
havior. And I believe every judi
cious person had rather fee his lon,
while very young, partaking in the
noisy miith of his school fellows,
than bowing and grinning in the
insipid circle of a card party.
With refpeot to the other charge,
that a learned education is a liitle
out of falhion in some polite circles,
we confefs and lament that ii is true.
Bnt though we allow fulhiun to dic
tate without' controul the exn<l ili
menllons of a buckle or a head
dress ; yet a regard for the honor
and happiness of human nature, in
duces us to dispute her sovereign
authority in tliofe things, on which
depend the manners and sentiments
of a riling generation.
If, however, it is gianteil, that
the true gentleman, that is, the
man of enlarged notions and poliih
ed taste, cannot, by any method of
education, be so well formed, as by
the clalfical ; yet it by no means
follows, that thole whose happiness
mull, in a great measure depend on
less coniprehenfive views of men and
things, fituti 1d be iuftruCied in the
lame mode. The time thatisufual
ly spent in Lilly's grammar, and in
acquiring just so much knowledge
of the Latin language as may in
spire a young man with vanity, but
which cannot enable him to enter
into the spirit of the author, is cer
tainly ill bestowed. He who is de
signed for the common walksof life,
had much better be reading Win
gate's arithmetic than Cordery's
colloquies, and learning the rule of
three than the rules of syntax.
122,192. 4 8
1 5->743- »2
197,680. 20
4*3-583- 64
— 1,126,616. 44
Dots. Cts,
65,000
33,000
34,980
,57,c 7 8. 80
39'3°3- 52
4'.651. 73
44,161. 44
46 811. 13
49 6'9- 79
67,536. 98
459,273- 39
1,210,744. 34
Mode oj breaking Steers to the draft in
a few dayi.
T ET the farmer carefully yoke his
Steers in a close yard or ttable,
and not move thein till they get fuf
ficjeritly accustomed to the yoke, so.
that they will eat their food, when
yoked, which will be in the conrfe
of a day. Let them again be yoked
the second day, and a pairofgentle
horses or oxen fattened before them ;
in which state let them (laud until
they become familiar with said hors
es or oxen, which will generally be
efFecfted in one day,and the next day
the Steers may be yoked, the horses
or oxen put before them as usual,
and let them be fattened to a wag
gon or any other carriage ; they
fearing the carriage behind them,
and being accustomed to the old ox
en before, will proceed forward
wiißout being whipped or bruised.
The above process will iiev e t failcf
producing good working m.
[Whole No.
"s?i
V
A
Xv
m ■
&
ir
|.
■(.
i
:l".
%By Yesterday's Mail.
N E W-Y O K. K, Dec 13.
By an arrive! at Scxport o'f have rtawed c e Jol-
Jowing interfiling A+vicel.
BELFAST, Oftob-r 10
We have mo l '>an otice liaud it as our opn
ion, thm Ir « 1-a v» is <l 'i pi* mvotvH m ihr
progress Liberty in France—and only
Ireluiid, but the \v»olf World. It is there
fore with much faitstathow we now uniiotmce
the defeat o» defovtiff*. 'oihe flight of iha. re
doubtable Hero th • Doke of BrunKvick, who the
d«»y before Iv.s dilgiace, had the aodaci y to ie
tit w his b'ovados, threatening dcilruflion to a
who'l peo >)e, merely bec.iufe they had thought
proper to better thf.ir condition 1 — May
such a cause ever meet a iimilar fate.
Letter from General Dumourifr
4 * At length, mv d ar Ser Van, what I ex
pe&ed and predicted 111 my letters has takin
place. The Pruflians are in full retreat. The
brave Buirnonville, who has been ftiled, % The
French Aijax' has taken from them during the
two last days, more than four hundred m jrjty
waggons, and above tuo hundred horjes. AM the
priloners and deferteis agree, that (his army is
exhatifted by famine, fatigue, arid the bloody
flux.—The enemy decamp every nigh*, ana
march only two leagues in the hours to cover
their baggage and heavy artillery.
M 1 have sent a reinfoicement to Evernonir e,
vho has more than 20,000 men, and who will
nevir quit them till he has exterminated t'em. — Jo
five theJtniJhing blow to this bufintjs JJb.aH join him
in perJoM.
" I have sent you some copies of my negocia
tion, which 1 havecaufed to be printed, because
the comrrand r of an army of freemen, ought to
fuffer no suspicions to exifl rtfpe£h»g his conduit
with the enemy. I think that the present cir
cumUance will deliver us from the fcouige of
war; and as 1 told you before, if I remember
right, I hope, provided )cu have confidence in
me, to eftablifii m> writer quaiters at Brufl" Is.
You may therelore adore the August Adembly
of the sovereign people, that I shall never seek
for rvpofe,until it shall b * put out of the power
of tyrants to do us any huit—l embrace you.
(Signed)
LONDON, October 6.
Two letters, one fro-n the Commifliorers
sent to the Camp at Chalons, and another
from Gen Dumourier, were read in the con
vention, stating, that the enemy continued to
retreat, ard that the road behind them was
strewed with dead bodies. On visiting the
camp, which they had quitted,3oo horses were
found dead and haljeaten.
These letters farther stated that there
were 8000 Tick in the Hospital General at
Grand Pre, and 5000 at Verdun. Gen. Du
mourier was of opinion that the enemy could
neither winter at Verdun nor Longwy, and
that they would effect their retreat through
Luxemburgh.
PRESIDENT of ike United States
of America.
A Proclamation.
"VT 7HEREAS I have received authentic
VV information, that certain law left and
wicked persons, of theweftern frontier, in the
state of Georgia, did lately invade, burn and
deftrov, a town belonging to the Cherokee
nation, altho' in amity with the United States,
and put todeathfevera! Indians of that nation;
and whereas such outrageous conduct not onW
violates the of humanity, but also en
dangers the public peace ; and it highly be
comes the honor and good faith of the United
States, to pursue all legal meansfor the puni fo
ment of those attrocious offenders ; —I have
therefore thought fit to iflfue this my procla
mation, hereby exhorting all the citizens of
the United States, and requiring all the offi
cers thereof, according to theiv refpe&ive.na
tions, to nfe their utmost endeavor-:, to appre
hend and bring tho'e offenders to jnfticc. And
I do moreover offer a reward of Five Hundred
Do!lars,for each and every of the above-named
persons who iball be To app re bar ded and bro't
to justice, and (hall be proved to have alfumed
or exercised any command . r authority among
the perpetrators cf the crimes aforelaid, at the
time of committing the firoe.
I '
I
i i*r
In teftHno'iv w'te-eof I have canned the seal
of the United States to be afT-xed tothefe
presents, ai d figued the ame with my
hand. Done at the city of Philadelphia,
the twelfth day of Beccnibet, in the \ear
of our Lord, one thou'ard lev en hundred
and ninety-twd, ar.dof the Independence
of the United States the Seventeenth.
, *
I
4
w
By tie T*ref!.'er,%
6 per Crr.'.<,
3 per Crnf s,
Defer red.
Full /hares P
4 lhar.«,
44 Saint \ii*ehould, 07. 1
« DUMOURIER."
BY THE
G. WASHINGTON
Th. Jefferson.
I RICE f.f L'JOCKS
iC J 3
1 ij
12/6
ank U.S. 36 per ten? p T crr
40
V ' *
Domestic Articles.
NEWBURY PORT, No*. 28.
On Monday last, agreeably to no
tification in the fcllex Journal of the
j I it i nit .the Bridge over M err i mack-
River, bet ween the towus of Salil
bury and Newbury, was opened tor
the life of the public ; the day be
fore which, a lhip of 35° 'o» s _ pall
ed under the great arch, which is
by far the U'geft oil this continent.
Eflex Merrimack-Bridge contains
upwards of fix thousand tons of tiqi
ber ; and is formed of several arch
es and solid piers, t he dimensions of
which are as follow, viz.
Abutment on the Salilbury-lhore,
S3
45
6a
53
43
Arch, 1 1 3
Abutment on the N. Jhore ofDeef-Tfland, 6o
Abutment on the south lhore of ditto, 93
lb3
185
Water-Course,
Pier,
Water- Course,
Pie r,
Draw,
Pier,
Artb,
Abutment on the Newbury-fiiore,
Whole length of the bridge,
34
Average depth of water at common high-
Width ot'tiie bridge,
water-market, 3 D
Heiohth of arch between Newbury and
Deer I (land,above common liigh-watitr
37
3 3
mark,
Height!) of Abutments above common
high-water-niark,
The inhabitants of Newburyport, i
and the community at large, may
with propriety be congratulated on
the completion of this very valua
ble public convenience ; which,
whileit furnifhes one, among many
evidences of the flourifhing Hate of
our country, reflects much honor on
the propi ietors, as well as those who
with so much spirit have executed
it. When it is coDfidered that this
bridge has been built, under the
profpecft of advantsges much less en
couraging than any which have been
granted by the legiflatnre to under
takings ot a similar kind ; that,from
unforefeen circumilances in the ex
ecution, the expense has arisen to 1
nearly twice the sum at which it
was calculated, and that the whole
has been effected in the short space
of seven months, and in a stile far
exceeding any thing of the kind,
hitherto eflayed in this country, it
will be acknowledged that too much
can hardly be said of the liberality
and perseverance of the proprietors,
or of the ingenuity and industry of
the artificeis.
The two large arches of this bridge
w ere executed from a model invent
ed by Mr. Timothy Palmer, an in
genious houfe-wright of this town)
& appear to unite elegance,ftrength
and firinnels, beyond the molt san
guine expectation.
To the grateful acknowledge
ments of the proprietors.iinanimouf
-1) presented to Capt. Win. Coombs,
President of the board of direcflors,
the public have, with united voice,
added their zealous applause, for
his unwearied personal attention to
this undertaking, through its whole
prugrefs.
ALBANY, Dec. 3
Judge Hofmer of Ontario county,
arrived in this city on Saturday lalt,
from the Genefee c«untry, and has
been so obliging as to communicate
to us the important and highly in
teresting intelligence ofatiuce hav
ing been concluded between the
holtile Indians and the United
Mates, on which we take the liberty
of felicitating our countrymen.
He fays, the chiefs of the Six Na
tions, deputed and comniiffioncd by
the President of the United States
on a million to the hostile tribes, af
fem bled in council at the Miami vil
lage* are returned home, bavin*
happily succeeded in bringing about
(reflation of arms between The laid
Indians and the United States —to
continue till the spring of 179; ;
and that, in the interim, they arc
ready and willing to enter into ne
gociations with commissioners, on
the part of Coi.giefs, for bringing
about and establishing a firm "and
laliing pe.ice \\ ith the United States
I he (aid chiefs add, that the In
dians at the council, contrary to
nioft fri'guine expectation*,
7y\
226
received them with a great deal of
cordiality, itiling tl.ein their elder
brothers, and treating them as Inch
in the molt courtly &I. lendiy man
ner ; and that they paid every p«>l
iible degree of refpeiJt and atteiui
on tothe talks which were delivered
them from the Prefi.lent of the
United States.
The above information was re
ceived in the Gsnefee fetrleme'nt
(as might well be expedt;d) v.ith
the highert degree of I'aiisfatftion ;
and it has already given a new
spring to the spirit of improvement,
as well as to all kinds of business
in that new and flourishing part of
he union.
Feet
124
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday December 12.
A letter was received from the Secretary of
War, enclosing, pursuant to orders fiorn the
President of the United States, a ftatcment of
the items on which the lum fpecified for contin
gencies, particularly of articles called conjedtur
al, in the War Department, is founded—this be
ing read, was referred to the committee of the
whole on the general cftimatc of appropriations
for the year 1793.
1030
Mr, Muhlenberg presented the memorial of
Moses Young, praying compensation for servi
ces performed, as Secretary to Dr. Franklin and
Mi". Laurens, while a&ing as foreign ministers,
for which he has never received any allowance.
This being read, on motion, it was referred to
the Secretary of the Treasury.
The petition of Samuel Forbes and others,
praying compensation for services and fufferings
during the late war, was read and laid on the
table.
A memorial was read from sundry persons,
holders of loan-office certificates, issued and re
ceived for money loaned to the United States,
for the purpose of carrying on the war, between
September 1777, and March 1778 —praying
payment of the interest m specie, at the rate of
fix per cent, per annum, agreeable to the llipu
kuions exprefled in said certificates. Laid on
the table.
Mr. Fitzfim<">ns after some observations ref
pe&mg the fettfement of the accounts between
the United States and the individual State*—and
that provision must be made eventually for the
balances which shall appear to be due—offered
the following resolutions—which were taken n
to confederation immediately ; read and refer
red to a committee of the whole on the firft
Monday in January next ; viz.
That a loan to the amount of the balances
which, upon a final fcttlement of accounts, shall
be fcund due from the United States, to the in
dividual States, be opened at the Treasury of
the United States, and at the Loan-Office* in the
refpr&ive States, to commence within
months after the said balance's (hall be reported
at the Treafuiy, and to coutinue open for the
term of months, fiom the time of its com-
mencement,
That the sums to be fubferibed to such loan
be payable in the principal, or interest of the
certificates, or notes ifiued by any such of the
said States, as, upon the final fettlemcnt of ac
counts, ihajl hace a balance due to them, from
the United States, and which (hall have li
quidated to specie value pnor to the day
of last.
That every fubfenber to the said loan (hall be
entitled, to certificates, according to the sum
fubfenbed, of the like tenor and dcfciiption, in
the lik« proportions, and upon the like terms, as
are fpecified, and directed, by the 15th and 16th
(e&ions of the a&, entitled " An ast making
provision for the debt of the United States," ex
cept ihat interest on such of the certificates sub
scribed to the said loan, as bear interest, shall be
computed to the last day of the year V 793, inclu
sively, and that interest (hall not begin to accrue,
upon any of the Qeitificates which fhaU he issu
ed in lieu thereof, till the fir ft day of January
1794.
1 hat in all cams, whcie the sum subscribed
io the evidences o! the debt of any Slate, (ball
exceed the balance due to such Sj»tr, the fame
(hail be reduced (in equal proportions} to the
ium actually due to such S?a;e.
One hundred copies of the above were or
dered to be printed.
In committee of the whole, on the estimate
of appropriations requisite for the year 1793. —
Mr. Dayton in the chair.
The article for the defenfive l protection of the
frontiers, was taken mto eenfiderarion. The
ilatement received this morning from the Secre
tary of war, reciting the items on which that ar
ticle is founded, was read—lt was then moved
that the blank Ihonld be filled with 50,000' dol
lars, the sum which had been struck out. After
fomc remarks on this motion, it was withdrawn.
A motion was tben made that the committee
Ihould rife and report progref*—Thi motion
ugreed to, and the committee rose accor
dingly and had leave to fit agaio.
1 he report of a felecffc committee on the peti
tion of Samuel Shaw,prefented a few days finee
was read. This report wa£ againfc granting
tjie prayer of the petition. Laid on the table.
CONGRESS.
A report on the petition of sundry inhabitants
of Newark, praying compealation for an aca
demy destroyed in said town timing the iiite
war, v.-?> reaj; v v.-; - c r
tition. Referred to a commictet o the whole
on Monday next.
In committee -f the whole o-i the bill to zf.
certain rhe fees demandahle in cafe of admiral
ty proceedings in the courts of thfc TJni'.cd State
a:>d to amend, in ;>art, the a& fortht govern
ment <>! seamen employed in the merchiiit'i fcr
vice—Mr. Dayton in the cluir.
I he committee prooeeded thro' the difjuQioii
of the remaining fe&ons of the bill—they a
greed to sundry amendments— the-, then rose
and reported propels,—and tlie Ho'uTe adiouri -
ed.
TKURSD/vY, December 13.
Mr. Gregg took his feat this day.
A mefTage was received from the Ssna??, br
Mr. Secretary Otis, informing the Huufe. Thai
they have passed a bill, M'hich originated in the>
Houle, entitled, An ad to provide for the re
gistering and recording of ships or vcfL-ls— w.th
amendments, in which they tlie concur
rence ofthcHoufe.
The report of the Secretary of the Trcafurr
containing a plan for the redu&ion of the pub
lic debt, on motion of Mr. Sedgwick, wa, re
ferred to a committee of the whole.
A motion for itsbeingmade the order of the
day, th 15 day week, was opposed. Mr. Murriy
objected to so early a day. The fubje&, kid he,
is important: the ft ate of Maryland has a right
to fix votes in this House : it so happens, that
four feats of the representation from that state,
are vacant. He wilhed, therefore, that a more
distant day may he appointed; as, in that cafc
it was highly probable, that state would be more
fully represented. Other reafoifs for a more
distant diy, were urged by fevcral gentlemen.
Tn-sday fortnight was finally agreed to.
The House took, into confidcration the amend
ments by the committee of the whole to the
coasting bill. They agreed to some of the
amend . ents reported, with amendments; o
thers were' reje&ed. A elauf* was proposed
to be added requiring from the owners, or mas
ters of veflels, a particular enumeration of all the
goods, wares and merchandize transported in the
several coaihng vellcls from time to time. This
occasioned some debate : it was objc&ed to as
involving a great and unrec.fiary expence,
without affording a correfponciing benefit:
tending to obftru& the coasting tra-e, foasal
moft to destroy the lame ; it was Lid, it wouid
be nugatory, being, in mar.y irapradica
ble. The clause was supported, as conducive to
information relative to the produ&s k real ton
fumpti«ns of t> efeveral states; points, on which
very different opinions were entertained: that
the expencc would not probably be more than
the addition of one Clerk to the Treasury De
partment : that the duty would devolve on the
colle<scors; and be a business of course, 3tc. The
motion was at length withdrawn. Some \ erbal
corre# ions were made n several fe&ioni; and
then, by general consent, the bill was laid on the
tabic, for further confid<*ration
The amend menu of the Senate ic. ihc bill
providing for regiftering-and recordißg of
or vessels, were read and laid on the table.
Mr. Steele moved the following resolution :
That the Secretary of War be dire&edto lay
before this House, a return of all the comraifii
oncd officers, non-comniifiGoned officers and
privates belonging to the regular eftablifliment
of the Uni:ed State*, fpecifying the regiments
or corps to which they belong, and the time of
their entering the service.
This motion was agreed to.
In committee of the whole, on the eflimate
of appropriations, Mr. Sedgwick in the chair—
The chairman observed, that the fuhjed was
before the committee without an/ fpctinc pro
position.
Mr. Kitchell moved, that th« committee
should rife report the resolutions submitted
some time since.
It being remarked that these refutations were
yet to be determined on, having never t»ccn re
ported to the House : they wereagain real: and
then a motion for the committee to rife and re
port, was made, and agreed to. The committee
accordingly rose and reported the refolurions,
which were taken into confederation by the
House. The items of the eft!mate were again re
cited the sum in the estimate for the sup
port and expences of the loan-offices, occafloned
considerable conversation—the accounts of the
several loan-offices were again called for; that
front the officer at New-York being rtfad,itwas
remarked that the amount of this account ex
ceeded that of Pennsylvania, and indeed of all
the other accounts. This disparity, it was said,
very extraordinary, and did rfiot appear to
be accompanied with any fufficient reasons, for
so great a difference; and though the ac
counts had been fettled by the proper officers of
the Treasury, yet that they were liable to bere
vifed by the House.
Some remarks in opposition were made.
The quetlion on agreeing to the sum reported
in the estimate for the loan offices was carried in
the affirmative
The Houic having proceeded through the
items included in the fcveral resolutions,
A motion was made and agreed to, that a
committee be appointed to prepare and report
a bill in conformity thereto. And
Mefsr*. Lawrance, Baldwin. Smith N.Hf
Steele and Giles were appointed.
A motion that the trtimate of contingency
received from the War department, with the
other papers relative to the ellimate of *PP ro P n "
ations be referred to theieie& committee was,
after fame debate, fuperceded by a motion t*
adjourn.
FRIDAY, Dcombrr 14.
Mr. \V. Smith, of rtie committee to w»m.
were referred sundry petition*from inval''
alio t*ie letter f <>m the j'idges of tlie ciicntt
court of tlie < t :!* lute cf K Caro
lina, brought in a report —«'l. ci was rcai
This report a repeal l t..e fevC-•fcftions in tie lav pifcd la!l session, enjoin
ing certain duties on the judges of the circuit
courts, resetting invalids—and details a <üb
llitute in leo of the j rovifions cor tamed in
the fame, [tore competent to the benevolent
«nd genersl purposes intended bv ft id aft.—
Tliirre|io't was twice read, and referred to
a commitce oi the whole lor the last Monday
in Deceuber. Interim, 100 copies to be
printed. ,
A letter was read from the Secretary of
War enclosing a report containing lifts of the
names ofperfons returned as invalids by the
leveral judges of the circuit courts, to the
War-OJtice —with an account of the circnin
ftances attending the feve.al ca r es. This re
port being read, was referred to the commit
tce of t!i« *'ho!e on the lift Monday of the
present month.
On motion of Mr. W.Smith, two preceding
reports from the Secretary of War, ry the
fame fubjeft, were referred to the i'uiiie com
inittee.
Mr. Uvermore brought in a report on the
jetition of the inhabitants of Post Vincennes,
praying to be exempted from the charge of a
re-survey of their lands. This report was in
favor of the prayer of the petition—read, and
laid on the table.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill
providing for the registering and recording of
(hip's or veC'ls, were taken into consideration.
Thefirit, second and third amendments were
a -rrecd to. Tlie fourth amendment was to
strike out the 17th section of the bill, which
was designed to guard effcftually_ against col
lusion in regard to American vefiels—it hav
ing been al'certained that impositions in this
refpeft had been praftift-d with i'uccefs. The
amendment of the Senate was objected to—it
was said it left the door fcill open to the own
ers of foreign vessels to evade payment of so.
reign tonnage. Mr. Goodhue, Mr. William
fon, Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Parker and Mr. Ma
dison, oppoled the amendment.
Mr. Fitzfimons appeared to be partially
in favor of the amendment —he observed that
there was no clause in the Britifli navigation
law, equally rigid with that proposed in the
bill, and which the Senate have objected to—
He observed that the policy of - such restricti
ons as went to discourage the building of ves
sels in the United States, may well be doubt
ed but thoug'i he was not perfectly fatisficd
with the clause in the bill, yet he; Ihould not
vote to concur with the Senate.—Mr. \V.
Smith said he agreed with the gentlemen from
Pennsylvania in his remarks, but Ihould draw
a very different conclufion —and ihould there
fore bein favor of concurring with the Senate
—but if the House fliould not be disposed to
concur, he enquired whether the proposal to
strike out the clause could not be adopted,
without agreeing to the substitute ?—Mr.
Barnwell was in favor of concurring with the
Senate.—Mr. Parker opposed the amendment
—he said the operation of the proposed clause
from the Senate, might tend to encreafe the
-building of American veifels, but would'
jnoft certainly tend to the injury of the mer- '
cantile interest in general—The collusions al
luded to- by gentlemen, he observed,
, had undoubtedly taken place—and if there is
notfome effeVftual provifton, like that in the
bill, adopted, the commerce of the United
States in a few years would be transferred to
foreigners altogether. Mr. Madison was op.
posed to the amendment—he added a few re
marks corroborative of the feutiments de
livered by Mr. Parker—and then tlje queftioa
being pat, the amendment of the Senate was
disagreed to.
A me flu ge was received from the Senate,
by Mr. Otis, their Secretary, informing the
House, that the Senate have patted a bill in
addition to, and for altering the ast for ex
tending the thne allowed for fettling the ac
counts between the United St ites and indivi
dual states—This bill was read, and laid on
the table.
A motion being made for the House to go
into a committee of the whole on the confi
dential meflage from the President of the
United States—Mr.Sedgwick took the chair,
and the doors of the gallery were shut.
Philadelphia, Dec. i£.
Tuesday last the beautiful ship America,
commanded by Capt. William Howel, failed
irom New-York for Bombay and China. It
is said near one hundred tnoufand specie dol
lars have taken their departure in this ihip.
In the Virginia House ofDelegates, on the
20th ultimo, an engroifed bill for eftabliihing
a Bank in the town of Alexandria, was read
the third time, and the blanks therein filled
tip ; and the queilion being put, that the laid
bill do pass, it was resolved in the affirmative,
ayes 71, noes 58. On a motion made, it was
ordered, that the names of the ayes and noes,
on the ioiegoirg queftiop, be inserted in the
journal. Ordered that Mr. Weft do carry
the bill to the Senate. The itock is to consist
of fliares, of 2DO dollars each.
Tnefdav the 27th ult. in the House of De
legates of Virginia, was read the iirft time, a
bill for the eltabli fluxion t of a Bank in the city
of Richmond.
T' e Hon. Charles Carroll, Senator of
the United States, from the Hate of Maryland,
having resigned, the Hun. Richard Potts
tas been e lifted to fill the vacancy.
A corrcfpondent obierves, that the hint
Xhrou-n out in a late r,umber of the Mai], re-
Ipeitinj;a fupplyofgiain ior our aljies at Mar
seilles, is indicative of t!;e benevolence and
patriotism of tie writer; as fiich, it must
.meet flip approbation of ail good men.
The hint, however, is susceptible nl' im-
: it is reported that the ri(e in the
p. icc of gram will operate so advantageously
for the planters arid farmers in the fptitheni
states, wiiere the crops have been very great,
and are principally on band, particularly in
the ancient dominion, that the circumstance
will make a difference of a million of dollars
in favor of that state. Now, Mr. printer, if
your correfpopilent had extended his idea to
that state, probably his own, and had proposed
an alfociation Ct:crc to guard against the ava
ricious practices of mercantile monopolizers,
similar to thatfuggefted withfo much candor,
for this city, I thinkhis plan would have been
more coinpleat as well as more uniform.
But, in order to he confident, lie onght
to have gone to the fountain head of supplies,
and warned Jame prr/ovs, if auy luch there
were, tp be thus warned,againft the extortion
of the farmers, the original holders of the
article; for it may very rationally be sup
posed, that t'nefe will be very naturally dis
posed to avail themlelves of an advantage
which does not occur every day. Mail.
from the St. Chriflcphtr Rtyal Cazettr, AW 1.
We are informed, that his Excellency; hav
ing dispatched his Majclty's frigate Perieus to
Martinico, with a very spirited reptrefenta
ti°n of the piratical insult offered so the Bri
tiih flag by the Sieur Malvaut, addrefled to
Sieur de Riviere, commanding flip station of
the French leeward islands, that officer has
attempted so palliate and juftify the conduct
of the Sieur Malvaut, and has refufed to give
up the flute, flie being, as he pretends, a
King's vessel ran away with by Monsieur de
la Carriere, who, with the troops under his
command,have come tothefe islands to spread
the discord which ravaged St. Domingo, and
was a fit commanding officer for men detach
ed from a body that were now their
facfilegious hands on the King, and had de
clared the fame aniinofitv to .ill Kings ; pre
tending also, that the Flute was too leaky to
venture to sea, and offering to fend two trans
ports to condiifl the handitti to any part of
the world they think proper to go, provided
they leave theft Peas, threatening at the fame
time to watch them narrowly with his fciua
dron. His Excellency does not mean to ac
cept of the offer of the two transports, but in
tends hiring a vessel, which, added to the
fliips they have now here, will be able to con
vey them to any port they please.
Mr. Malvaut, we are told, now denies his
having sent any challenge to Captain Byron,
previous to his being captured by that gen
tleman.
Among other attributes which Mr. de Ri
viere be flowed on Capt. Malvaut, to decorate
his condoft, he fays M. Malvaut is diflin
guiflied by his birth, which we arc informed
is ftriftlv true, as he has a strong dash of co- '
Jourcd blood in his veins.
Extra;l of a Utter jjom Quebec, Oflober 17, 17»
" I fend you a tew ot our city G izrttej—you
will find little worth notice in 1 hern, this being
the mod recluse corner of all America for in-'
tclligtne*, ui Icaft during two thirds of the year ;
and befldci, the abjetl ignorance and moral fcr
vitude of the majority of the inhabitants (Cana
dians) afford little room or badly recomptnce
any eflorts to render newspapers ufeful or inter-p
efting ; for it is no less ttue, though it may ap
pear incredible that of upwards of fifty tho*„-
sand families, in lower Canada, not five hun
dred read public newspapers, or in fa£l read any
thing at all. It is rhus education, that firfl and
greatcfl interest of society is n» glefled in this,
moral antipode of the United States, and you
know it is impofTible that printing should llou
rifh, where education is so neglected."
The committee appointed to arrange the
fubje(sl of the Governor's speech to
both houses of the Legislature, and to report
thereon, the obje&s which require the imme
diate attention of the Legislature, made the
following report on Tuesday last.
I. Tl\at a committee be appointed to take
into confederation the defence of the frontiers
against the incursions of the Indians, and to
make provision for the expences which may
be incurred on this score.
2. The a<ft of the United States for regu
lating the Militia of this slate, and proper ar
rangements to enforce it.
3- The slate of the finances of the State,
and proper steps necefTary to be taken in ar
ranging the fame, and in the di pofal of the
public monies lying inactive in the public
treasury.*
4• To bring in a bill for securing the speedy
colle&ion of arrearages of taxes,out {landing.
5 Arrangements necessary to be made in
the offices of accounts, and land-office, and in
the establishment and collection of marriage
and tavern licences.
6. To take into consideration the salaries
of the judiciary of* the court of Common Pleas,
at present reported to be too small to com
mand the attendance of the justices of the
court,
7- The necessary regulations for securing;
to fliip builders and other pcrfons employed
in the equipment, payment of their demands
on the veliels and furniture by them built or
equipped.
8. Suitable orovifion for public schools ans
seminaries of learning.
9. A revifioif and reform of the office of the
Wardens of the ports connected with proper
regulations as to the Pilots belonging thereto.
10. Proper arrangements in the health of
fice, and eflablifhment of a marine hospital.
11. Arrangements neceliary to Ix? adopted
as to the ast concerning the claimants of do
nation lands.
12. Suitable provision for the expences of
government, discharge of public certificatcr,
/perilling the house intended for the use of
the President oft? e United States, and other
contingent expences.
13. The enumeration of taxable inhabi
tants, agreeably to the conftitutiop of tie
flatc.
227
'4- Renewal of the bankrupt law „f this
• r " ~ave «ifca until Cw,- th nroiide
genera, regulations on that fuhjiet.
'5- That a committee he appointed to
take into conlideracion futh ast, a; expire ar.d
require renewal, fucb as that for remlatii "
the export of pot and pearl-afb, for transfer"
ling the power oftlip SupremeexecutiveConn
ci! to the present Executive, and as to the
Wineries in ih e river Codoi us.—and
'6. That the house take order as to the di(-
po'al of the maps of this Kate, draw and lie.
posited by Reading Howell.
AkswtK ofthe House of Representatives to
the Governor's Speech.
To THOMAS MIFFLIN,
Gwerfiot of the Cmmonueah/t oj Pennjtlvam-t.
, Sir,
THE continuance and encreafe of general
prnfperitv, the honorable discharge of our pe
cuniary engagements, and the extensive pro
gress of public and private improvements,
throughout the Commonwealth, whilst they
afford to our fellow citizens the strongest evi
dence of the wisdom of our political institu
tions, must also impress their minds with the
most favorable fentimerts towards those from
whose virtue and ability in the administration
of government, the principles of our constitu
tion, and the mandates of our laws, derive
their fulleft and most beneficial operations.
We join y6u in lamenting that in any part
of the Union, unwarrantable oppolition has
been made to the measures of a government
founded on principles of equality and free
dom, and brought into exilic nee by the free
and unbialTed voice of the people ; but are at
the faille time happy to learn, that the result
of your enquiries, how far the citizens of
Pennsylvania have been concerned in any ri
otous or violent opposition, is, that you have
found the instances of outrages but few, that
the oflenoers have been generally pro/ecuted,
ar.d that in every ca<e of a prosecution, le
gally fnpported, conviction and puniflinient
have ensued.
Imp re fled with the necessity of a drift and
faithful attention to our federal obligations,
we allure you of our hearty concurrence in
any legal measures which may be adopted, to
allay the spirit of di(content, to cultivate the
the means cf harmony, to repress every Ipe
cies of unjuftifiable opposition to the laws of
the Union, and to excite merited confidence
in the measures of the general government,
The remaining objects of your addrels shall
receive an attention proportioned to their ur
gency and importance; in affording which, we
shall proceed with confidence and alacrity, re
l>ing on the support of our confHtuent.s, and
your aid and concurrence in every measure
directed to the promotion of their happinels
and prosperity.
GERARDUS WYNKOOP, Speaker.
It appears by letters from the State of Vir
ginia, that the Ele&ors there were unanimous
in tiir choice of George a<; Prc.fi
dent, and George Clinton as Vice-Prelident
of the United States.
The Ele&ors of the State of Delaware were
unanimous in the choice of George Wa/hing
ton and John Adams as President and Vice-
President of the United States.
Letters from Boston and Providcnce receiv
ed by veftei day's post, inform that the Elec
tors of President and Vice-President of the
United Stares, for Maflachufetts and Rhode
-111 and. gave a unanimous vote for George
Washington and John Adams.
At t'ne meeting of the Dire&ors of the In
fuance Company of North-America, on the
nth inftaut, John M. Nesbitt, Esq. was
eledted President, and Mr. Ebenszsr Hazard,
Secretary.
Ab?tra<ft of Duties arising on Goods, Wares
and Merchandise, imported into tl'e DiftricfV
of Alexandria, and on the Tonnage of Ships
and VefTeh—commencing; tie ill day of
January, and ending the 3 3 *! i day e P"
tember, 1792, inclusive.
Amount of duties on merchandise
in the quarter ending the
day of March,
Amount of duties on tonnage of
vefFels in said quarter,
Amount of duties on merchandise
in the quarter ending the 30th
day of June,
Amount of duties on tonnage of
veflVls, in laid quarter,
Amount ofduties oil merchandise
in the quarter ending the 30th
day of September,
Amount of duties on tonnage of
veflels in said quarter,
Total amount of Dollars, 6J416 67
The Value of Exports to Foreign Ports, for
the fame period of time, is as follow.', v iz.
, Dols. Cts.
In tlie quarter emliiig the 31ft of
March,
Pitto ending 30th June,
Ditto ending 3=>th Sept.
Total amount of Dollars, 343513 i 2
COMMUNICATIONS.
The late report of the Secretary of the
Treafurv, fays a correfponpent, excites vari
ous observations anion}' the po :ticians of the
( |a,_f 9 me approve,,others cnrlemr—foroe
appear to be pleafcd with the p!.m oi reduc
tion on account Qt" its gradual operatioi
others are in favor ot a more prompt and 'c.ra
mary fchemc—but as it is not, ai d never can
be a queftiojn with a financier whether his pro
pofitimis flial>£ive vmrrjalfytisiaftion, it is
ns mnc'i as r,.r. b; expend, if they wit*
th. ..probation ol a u-ljwotabic isujoihy.
It has been mfmuatc-d that the rcoi r.E, con
fer. n» the elettio;. ol PreUdrnt and Vice
s refule it oi the United State* ..s'an ..Ijert ~f
o'»A tance to tholr irterelb, have re.
g.eftedto exercise their ri> ; ht of fuft ~e ...
choosing the electors ofthn-e oflicen—it ,
pears to he a darling o!.jcft win <r r tp „,
vilers ot the forui of government u ■ i. i, ,|-e
peome of tins country have adopted t- /.,/
anrt if polTible wholly annihilate in tC- -iK-ia!
eHimation, the Presidential and r litutial
branches The Senate, in particular i. con
tinually held up to view in the I,loft unfavora
ble light—lt has been openly declared bv f„ lnc
detached squads of these fquibbino ~
that the Senate is a u'elefs body and so with
refpefl to a Vice Prefidint—Ar.d as to the
duel Magi ft rate, the opinions sported s„ ter
tain pretended friends to repubiicanifm, •>,«
diametrically opposed to the ex:fl, nrc of anv
fucli officer in the goyerninentas-Such r.re the
doflrines of those who, when rhuv ijraile tlie
people—mean themselves.
The party writers have no resource in this
dry time for matter of complaint, but to set
up the old (ing-song about the growth of mo
narchical principles and the diftinftion of re
publican and anti-republican parties. It is
lamentable tor them, as their whole business
and delight is to find fault, that the conduct
of government futilities little occasion for
their trade. The Prcfident, the Governor of
Pennfylvaoia, and the body of the citizens
expressly approve of whatCongj-efs lias done
it only remains to (hew what mifchjef the le
gislature, and thole who support it inttvd to do.
This is poor doings for the party—it is living
on the wind, on the mere smell of the ('call
which they actually ei joy when government
commits an error or fufFers a misfortune.
However, if it were not for hope, the heart
would break. Accordingly every effort is
making to alarm the people with jealousies
against government. They have tried to
new vamp the worn-out story of a monarchy
party—one would alrnoft suppose there was a
King kept concealed in a cage like the lion,
and going to lie let loose on the next market
day to eat up our v children. Yet the men
against whom they would raise a clamor, as if
they were plotters against liberty, are fatis
fied with the coijftitution—with the law
and with the officers and servants of govern
ment—so that, according to thele Solomon'!,
the men who plot against the republican go.
vernment we enjoy, are the fatisfied iikt—
the men whom these scribblers stigmatize be
cause they are fatisficd—jiul the trne fede
ralifts—the true republican fupportcrs of the
conllitution, and of the present of
things, are the uneasy and complaining party
—thole who lid and wrote over the wK-'e
Continent, flift to prevent the adoption .if
the constitution, then to prevent federal n ?n
being chosen, and finally to make the laws for
carrying tlie conftitut'o.n irto effect,
and feeble—thefe are the only worthy ciirdi
dates for power and trust—these are the only
republicans whom the people car- place cm.
fideuce in for securing our free conftituti
against the monarchy-men. It li-enis as
thele writers had loft all rej'peet for t; e fen
of our citizens, when they rely on the s
of certain founds to make thc:n > " . et tK ;
eftablilhed federal principles, an aij that they
have seen of the pernicious si • ni«ks of the
party. They crv Monarchy am Ariiicciv,
expedfciug that, like the cry of fire, it wii.S^
ways make some disturbance w.en nothing
else will. They treat the people as if any
empty found would have the efleft to i>u!e
them.—lt is said the keepers of bje«,by fink
ing on a warming-pan, put the whole hive
into commotion. But the whole history of
America, as well as the constitution which the
people adopted on sober reflection, ought to
have made them better acquainted with the
character of our citizens, whom they insult,
when they attempt by such {hallow and itale
tricks to deceive and in Hams them.
Dols. Cts.
It is neerly two years since the public con
fidence in some of tl»c lHufl diftinguilhed ~-
triots of our country began to be aflailed, by
the publicat on of the most impudent, inde
cent and slanderous attacks from the pens of
envy andmaliee.—lt is said, " no fair appeal
has been made to the public on the compara
tive merits of Mr. Adams aud M . Clinton."
That no fair appeal has been made, is abun
dantly evident; but that the inoft unremitted
endeavors were ufed,and themoft unfair means
resorted to,to prtj udiee the publicmind against
the Vice-Preiident, all America bears witness.
Happy for our country's honor, freedom and
happinefr, it appears, that the business has
turned out diredly the reverse of what was
intended. So true it is, that tho' there is no
end to be exposed to the clamors of* a pavty
spirit—yet a lying tongue is but for a mo
ment.
6185 90
404 64
20602 19
1544 47
30465 J9
1213 88
" Catullus" was not recciv.d ttifedfon
for this d"\'i Gazelle, butJlritl appeal in our next.
81536 98
j 6 2693 30
99314 24
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or between Providence
and B »iton, a very small TRUNK, covord
with seal-skin of a rrddifh colour, villi while
spots. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Carolina State Notes, and a lew of the
State of Rhode-Island ; with other papcrs.uhu.h
cankmiy be fcnriteaMc to the propruior. Tj,c
Stale notes arc ch< *kcd at the offict s Irorn whtnee
theyilTued. Any person producing the Trunk
(with its contents) to JOHN MARSIQN,»of
Boston, WILLIAM MALL, of Providence*
M<fTis. PATER: ON and URASKFR. New-
Yoik, cr Mr. SAMULL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, fVinH receive the above reward, or tor any
of the property, One Hundred Dollars.
Bcflou, Nov. *8 ep;rSdM aill be pultijkedj
THE S Y S T £ As or
jCcind-)
Used byMr. Lloyd,in taking down thr Debates
ot Congrefj. A fylteni lo eaty, that any man,
of ordinary capacity, may clearly comprehend
it in half an hou«, and foun piadiie u, iw »U
full eft extent, willful any tuither infttuflion,
than what will b conveyed in a lew page*, ■
the whole ART being comprifcd in eighteen
Jmpte chat alien, without any of those perplexing,
aibiticuv maiks, with which the learners of
other fytlems obliged tn burden then me
mory, and crnbmafs their practice.
Price, to One Dollar—to Non-
Subfcribcrs, a Dollar and half.
Subscriptions received by Messrs. Rice, Book
sellers, Market-Hreet, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street.
Ha[f a Dollar to be paid at the time of/ul-fcribing.
ADVERTISEMENT.
Between December \Ji, 1792.
William Shipley lln the high CounofCnance-
Complainant, > ryot the State ot Ncw-
John Meng and o- 1 Jet sty.
(hers Defendants. J Prejent,
His Excellency the Chancellor.
THE Complainant having filed his bill ot
Complaint againit the Defendants 'n the
month ot September, fevrnteen hundred and
ninety-one. and in the laid Bill of Complaint did
among other things set forth that the said Com
plainant being Icized in his Denulne *s of fee
ofand in a certain Ttadl of Land , said to contain
nine hundred and thirty acres, situate, lying and
being in the townlhip ot Hardwick in the coun
ty ol SufTcx in the State of New-Jersey, did on
the firft of March teventeen hundied and eighty
live, bargain fell and convey the fame in fee lim
plc unto John Meng and John Hendcrfon ot ihe
city of Philadelphia, -William Goodwin and
John Town, for the confederation ot One Thou
sand Six Hundred Pounds in Gold or Silver—
That on the filth day of the fame month of
March the laid feoffees above named did execute
unto the said William Shipley a Deed of Mort
gage in fee fnnple of the said Tract of Land to
secure the payment ol the said lixteen hundred
pounds, with the lawful intcrefl which might
theieon accrue—That in the year fcveiitcen hun
dred and eighty-fix the said John Meng and
William Goodwin did become Bankrupts with
in the intent and meaning of the a&s ot the Le
gifiature ot the Commonwealth of Pcnnfylvania,
and luch proceedings were had against them that
in the fame mon-h they were duly declared
Bankrupts ; and that they the said John Meng
and William Goodwin did in some short time
afterwards convcy and transfer all their effate
both real and personal, and particularly all their
right and title to the piemifcs above mentioned
to Jo eld, Curtis Clay, James C. Fisher,
i .rton, John Kaighn and Arthur Collins
V f Philadelphia, fubjcft 10 ihc
' ' 1
a!. . ~ , r j __
• f. v orefaid given to the laid Com
p ' .ne said John Field, Cuius'
Ciav C. Fiftter, liaac Wharton, John
Y .rthur Collins soon after bargained,
•ycd all their Rigllt and Title of
1 1 id Trust of Land unto Benjamin
i he city of Philadelphia, and John
- 0 'j • < o the Mortgage aforefaid— That
n h day of O&ober seventeen hun
dred , ty-five, the said John Town and
Benjlit; r: fwn did execute another Mortgage
to the f.iiu William Shipley for securing the pay
in. ,t of t v'lve hundred pounds in certain in
itcll:n-i'i*»i— : hat in the month of January seven
' hundrt*) and eighty-fix, John Town did
ga n and fell in fee finiple ail his Right and
to »hc said premif'es, to the said Benjamin
Town, fubjeft to the Mortgages aforefaid—That
in the month o{ February seventeen hundred and
eighty-eight, ihe said Benjamin Town did con
vey all hi# Right and "1 itie to the said premife®,
to John Field and Curtis Clay of the city ot Phi
ladelphia, upon certain Trnfts unknown to the
Complainant—That the said Benjamin Town
loon after became fiaoktupi, and in purfuancc
of the bankrupt laws of the State of Pennlvlva
nn, did convey all his elUc real and ptrjor.al
to a certain Robert Raiflon—That John Hen
dcrfon did a!foin the month of September seven
teen hundred and eigbty-feven become a Bank
an<* unc K r bankrupt laws of tl*: Stdtc
° Peni.fyKania, did aflign .and convey all his
tU.tr real personal to David Lenox, Gco.gc
Hughes, Matthew Cla.kfon, Peter Bavnton and
j a, d Bache And the Complainant doth in
and by hi. hid Bill, p,„y that ,h ,fc having
'g Tto th c fcii d Eftatc may be decreed t<» pay
him What is du, on the laid Mortgages, or that
Ihc equity ol Redemption be foulofed by the
Decree of this Couti.
And now upon opening this matter this day
by K it hard Stockton, Efquirr, being ofthe com-
Tl 'IlVr C ," ll "' C ' —'' appearing to the Court
ja e f.nd defendants do rrfide in the State
<>' rennfylv,.iia, without the jnrifdiftion ol this
DUf, , and it apprai ing tun her to this Court
•i-t writs of fubt a'iu h.ive been taken out ac.
cording to the course of this Court, that lfie said
wnts ot fuhpoena ha y e been duly fetved upon
the hid fever., Defendants upwards of one
nVf A" i'" y; 8 " rl ,hat "n«<= "f 'he hid
u, be et"" 1 h:! or lh < ,ir "ppemnrr
I" be entered ,n th,. Court the fui, of the said
rxrclle7 am , : " " ,hCrCf ° rC I, V '"«
fpnl c/ " ,e Chancellor, that the said' De.
to >he n f»if °r\ UfC u' C ' r aopca,ance 10 entered
to the ir L vr Complainant according
hi,dV" C, ° ' h " Conrt in two f-m
confefro'a ° r ki P ' Bin ! iff ' hill be talurn pro
the I "n^ rrC • °f ,t,c aa °f
T i, J. ,n nc ' l rare "lade and provided
nuMi'r mP ' ,, , nan ' Ki * in * no ''" * n * ""ki"?
publieationofths r.'leasinaiidbyther.iid ast
Ol the Leg-iflaiurc is provided.
WJLUfIM PATERSON, ChanttUor.
Decmbir iJ?, i-q ?
03" The price of tins (.an lit n H,,„ Oi>l/t r <
uj io k t "" 1 a: " ,e »** "//<*'
A GREAT BARGAIN.
F}R Sale, a beautiful situation on the Po-
lowinack r adjoining the town of Alexandna
and in a I nit* of oirettion towards the Federal
City and George Tow n,in full view of each place,
commanding * profpeft of the river and adjacent
country o! Maryland and Virginia, tor many
miles ; about 45 or 50 acres ol Land, lying di
icftly on the uver, will 'be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-story framed
d wc Uing-houfe, neatly finilhed, a kitchen, office,
bnck smoke-house and dairy, two-story Iramed
barn, a well ot excellent water, and an ice
houle, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne-
improvements ; the whole of the land
enciofed with poftsand rails, tenor fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its
contiguity to those three towns rnuit render ii
obj< 61 worthy the attention of any pei (on who
wishes to invest money in a property thai must
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid »n
---creafe of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property !ics nearly in a
central situation to each place. The Potowmack
at this (pot has a fine deep Ihore and harbour,
capable of receiving vcflels of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be ere£ted here 10 the City of
WaHiingion and the Maryland (Horef leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.—Alio to fell, ii 15
acres ol Wood-Land, about three niiles distant,
which will fun well to supply the above in
wood and limber. The title maybe seen to the
above property, which is indisputable, and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, living
on the pre.mifes.
BALDWIN DADE. '
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.'
Philadelphia, November 20, 1792.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States are hereby informed, that according
to the statute of in.orporation, a general cle&ion
for twenty-five Direst >rs will be held at the Bank
ef the United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the fevrnth day oi January next, at
ten o'cock in the forenoon.
And puifuan to the eleventh fesion of the
Bye-Laws, the Stockholders of the said Bank aie
herebyjnotificd to afTemble in general meeting
at the fame place, on Tuesday the eighth day of
January uext, at five o'clock in thf evening.
By order of the President and Dire&ors,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
GEOGRAPHY.
Mathew Carey
Refpe£lfuliy submits to the Citizens of the United
States, the following
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION'.
An AMERICAN EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED.
Of which theje are the terms :
1. TT (hall be pubtilhed in 48 weekly numbers,
X each containing thiee Iheets,or twenty-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine papei.
11. In the course of the work will bedelivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame size as those
in the European editions, viz. mod of them sheet
maps on poll paper.
(p?" Bejtdes the maps in the Britijh editions, this
work will contain maps of as many of the United States
as can be readily procured, executed by the bell engrav
ers in the United States.
111. The price of each number will be a quar.
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery. No ad.
vance required.
IV. The work will be put to press as soon as
700 copies are fublcribed for.
V. Sublcribers who disapprove ol the work, on
the publication of the three firft nutnbeis, are to
be at liberty to return them, and fliall have theii
money repaid.
VI. The fubferibers' names shall be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertaining
and uleful than geography. It reveals the difco
venes of travellers—the remarkable curiofitiet of
all countries, in nature and art—the fttuation ot
provinces, c.lics, towns, villages, livers, & moun
tains—in fine, the history, manners, customs, laws,
forces, revenues, and government of diffeient na-
tions.
It is an old observation, that " there is not a
son or daughter nf Adam, but has tome concern
with g-ography;" and that a knowledge of this
fciencc IS indispensable towards the study of liif.
lory with advantage or fatisfaftion. indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannot discourse on the
mo ft common topics of the day without
betraying his ignorancc.
So much for geography generally. With re-
Ipccl to the present plan, let it fuffice to remark
that Guthrie's Geography has been long acknow.'
I edged to be the best in the Englift language ■
however, the account of America u, „ has, from
obvious reasons, been very erroneous and defec
"q'j Th< : errorsof former editions will be cor
re6lcd, and the defea s supplied, by gentlemen of
abilities who have engag-d to fu;,rnntend th's
undertaking, ar.d to avail themselves of all the in.
lor,nation that can he procured, to rtndrr ,t me
molt complete edition extant.
1 he Printer earnestly solicits the support of his'
fellow-citizens throughout the United Stan s: ami
as no depolit is required, and ever T fublcribtr will
he Ihoi'itd'dV 0 WUhd, '; w . his •!", on tri,l.
he Ihonld d,f a p pr.,ve ol ihe work, he hopes th<
i -enis ot science, and of Atnevican arts and ma
"ulnftures, will cheerfully and early patronize M
bI I WOrkl ,hC S ' eat< " 3 " d "VXI, pr,
bahly, ever yctaucmp.ed in America, in the tvpr
g JD'iu,! 1 r,-, tl, ; h.icvelnpxdia cxreptrd.
ADVi RTtSKMENT.
jl; ' Gaz """p''l>liJ>ieJin North Fifth-Street
Mr. 34 ieUoe;, High and Mn/l>erry Streets—where
the Lditot norv refutes.
A LARGE. CFLLAR TO LET
a#-«(/, capaacus '".florejtvero! hundred barreh
£iiqui/c us dhcvc.
228
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-flreet, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE akd&ALE of
STOCKS an COMMISSION, Begs leave ro oiler
hi* services to his friends and otheis, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Thole who may please to fa
vor him with their bufmefs, may depend upon
having it tranfaded with the utmott fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia,Bofton, or any other
part of the United States will be ftri 6ll y attend
ed to.
Ma v 2.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON &SOUCHONG,
Ofthe very fiiU quality, and latest importation
from Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
N. B. A jew Boxei oj the above HYSON for sale.
To the Public.
THE fubfcribe r begs leave to acquaint the pub
lic in general, and his customers in particu
lar, that he has entered into partnerfhtp with
Mr. HENRY KAMMERER, and that the Print
ing bufmefs in the English and German languages
is now carried on under the firm of STEINER
and KAMMERER, No. 85, in Race-ftieet, be
tween Second and Third-streets.
The German Newspaper will he published by
them, as usual, on TucfJays, and all kind of Pi int
ing work done with care and expedition.
MELCHIOR STEI\ T ER.
Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 1792.
PLA N S
OF THE
City of Wafnington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, \OUNG, & CRUKSHANK.
John Gould,
HAIR-DRESSER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in gene
ral, that he continues to carry onhis buiinefs
as usual, at No 1, South Third-Street, near
Market-Street, his formercuftoiners
for the favors he has received.
Said Gould has for sale, an infallible cure for
Weak or Sore Eyes, which on trial, has and will
be found to answer the purpose.—He has it in
vials from one quarter of a dollar to a dollar.—
Any person trying the above, if not found to
answer the character given, the money will be
returned. [tf] •
A further Caution.
ALL per ons are hereby cautioned Irom receiv
ing of Thomas Mackie & Co. or any other
person, tour Notes of Hand, given by the late
James Gardner, of Wilmington, North-Caiolina,
to Samuel Jackson, of Philadelphia, all bearing date
ihe 19th July, 1785, amounting in the whole to
£. 2,600 13 3 North-Carolina currcncy; the
great eft part of which said Notes have been paid
'o said Thomas Mackie & Co. in proof of which
■he lubfcribeiy have the deposition of Mr. Jaffa
Mauduit Jackson, and other documents which will
.'ully and clearly illustrate the matter.
It is therefore expected that this notice, with
the one advertised in this paper in May and June,
1 79 1 » a fufHcient caution to the public.
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executors.
MAR. R. WILLKINGS, )
Wilmington, (N. C.) Aug. i, 1792. (tarogm)
TO BE SOLD,
A Plantation,
LYING on the river Delaware, miles above
1 renton, containing 165 acres ; whereon is
a dwelling-houfe,pleafaiuly situated, 36 by 24 feet,
having three rooms with fire-p'.aces on the lower
floor, and four above, one of them with a fire
piace ; a kitchen adjoining, near to which is a re
markable large fpnng of excellent water, accom
modated with a good ; a bain 36 feet
by 26; a waggon,chair and smoke-houses, besides
other ufeful out-builcSings ; a large orchard, chitfly
of grafted fruit. The farm is well watered, and
has a proportion of wood and meadow land, thro'
which the road runs that is known by the uame
of the River Road.
On the Picmifes is also ercftcd,
A Grift-Mill,
In the midst of a good wheat country, on a never
tailing ftreain ; the mill-houfc is 54 by 24 feet,
has one water-wheel, a pair of burrs and a pair of
Cologne iloncs, rolling screen, bolts for merchant
and country woik, &c. and i- accommodated with
a cooper's fht p, 18 feet square, near the mill —
which is about 300 yards Irom the Ddawate, and
vc y conveniently (ituawd to receive wheat, &c.
from boats palling down the river.
There are also for Sale,
20 Acres of Wood-Land,
within leli than a quarter of a mile of the above
mentioned Plantation, which lies in a fine hieh
healthy country.—For terms apply to the sub-
Yribcr on the premises.
ia wtf)
Trenton i Offober, 1792
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLf. for receiving and paying Gold-»-
gradunvd according to Law—Blank Maritefls—
And Blanks for the various Powers of Attorne>
1' f( 'H'iry in tranfa£hng Biifm, ft at the Tteai'ur y 01
the Bank of the United State*.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
JOHN MOTT.
(idW^lj
BOWEN's exhibition's ok
W ax- W ork&Paintino-s
A RE open every day and everfirg (Sutaav,
I, A/r 6 * o at tHe H ° Ule late!v "tCUpicil
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Ei-hth-ftr«e[
First Room—Contains upwauls of 103
elegant Paintings, anri about 3o"tt'ax Figure
in full itature—among which are Likeuelfes
of a number ot the principal character, j„
Ameiica; Baron Trenck in chains, an Indian
i' r and ievera! beaiitil'uf young _U d;es ot '
different States, tf c. &c.
&COND Room—Contains eighteen large
Wax Figures, which form a Sociable (u b
01 the Oyster Suppek ; and the School tW
ocanpa l, conilfting of twelve fematlt i • - u rc s
making their obJervations on a young Lad/
who had eloped with a Footman." °
Admittance One Quarter oj a Dollar each
Rooifl.
books,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
M A T H E VV CAREY,
No. 118, Markil-Slreet, Philadelphia.
i. A MERICAN.MUSEUM,f.omit.commence.
I A. me.u hi January 1787, (o June 170 a
elevfn vols. Price, neatly bp u iid and lettered
seventeen dollars and three filths.
This work, wh'ch is how conducted on an im.
provid plan, containing the best pieces pul■ 11 fh.d
for and against the proceedings ol government
will be found to contain at leaf! as gli al a variety
of political, agricultural, and mifee i neous tjfa\s
as any ever puhiifhed in Amertra. Perhaps, nm !
one work are so many valuable docurm uts refpett
ing Ihehilloiy of this country, collcftec! together.
His Excellency the Prelideni of the United Slates
has declared of ir, that "a more ufelul liunry
plan has never teen underlain in America, nor
one more defeiving ot public encouragement."
The fubfeription is two dollars and a haif per
ann. Geniletneo in the country who wish 10
be supplied with this woik, aic rc t| ueft<tl to glvc
commillion to friends in the city to lubfcribe lor
and receive it- Any of the hack iinmhcr,
may be had in order to complete sets.
2. Sm it I, 's Letiets so Married Women, or. Nm f
;ng and the management of Children.
" We recommend these letters to the prrufat of
those to whom thev are particularly add 1 effee:."
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101 — Puce, bound,
62 \cents.
I 3 Duncan's Elements of Logic-—75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—eo cents.
I 5. Beauties of Blair—so ctnis.
i 6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mist
More'sEffays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advicr, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Ladv,Mit.Cha
ponc on command at Temper, Morc's Fables for
I' lie Ladies, Price 6/55.
7. Smith's Hiilory of New-York. Piiceadol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beau
tie, L. l D. pi ofeflpr of moral philofoyhy and
logic in the Matifchal College, Aberdeen— Prict
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book th«
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : "VVe
have (een nothing on these iubje&s more plain,
;nore pcrfpiruous, or more generally ufeful."
N T . B. It 15 introduced into the Univerfiiy in Phi
ladelphia. ,
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-filths of •
dollar.
IC. Blair's Sermons. Pricc two dollars.
.11. N ckfi'sTrearjfc on the impoTianccof Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifth* of a dollar.
12. Exam mation of the Obfcrvations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on vciy
fine paper, 5 8t hs of a dollar.
13. Ihe Conditutions of the fevcral United States,
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fmgal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
American Jtft Book. Pi ice three-fifths of
16. G
lla do'jarden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
bl< , in quarto— Price,elegantly bound and lcttei
cd, 50/2—plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Chriltan'r Vadc Mccum— Pure *
quaucr dollar.
i - Think well on't. Puce a quarter dollar,
- t..: n.:. ts __ .. r» _: c i'- > '
20. Christian Kconony. Price > fittl: of a doiiar.
21. History of Charles Grandilon, abridged—
Pricc a fixili of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a ihird
of a dollar.
23. Sc!c£l Poems, chicfly American—Price a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Car k Y # has for sale, a large afTortment ef
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the mod icafonable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being fupplicd :a
the mod fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries
or to fell ag.iin.
For Sale, at No. 34, North-Fifth-Streer,
AN ALPHABETICAL LIST of the Dutifi
payable on all Goods, Wares and
due imported into the United States; exhibiting
the Rates payable on those imported in Ships or
Vessels of the United States, and in Foreign Ship*
or Vetfels; including the additional Dy-tic* !•
which the refprftive Articles are liable.
THE EDITOR-TO HIS SUBSCRIBERS.
THE Arrearages oj SubscriptionsJor this Gazettf
have been for a long timr acenmu'ating. The ex
pences oj the publication are great and inevitable, and
have annually amounted to much more than the
receipts for fubferiptions ; the eonfejuenees mufl bt
obvious. The Editor has no other rrjnurce than those
arrearages, todifcharge the debti he has been obligfi
to incur in profecuttng the publication.
He is therejore necejjitated to repeat his afjphca ?
tion to those who have received fuffjeription money on
account oj the Gazette, and those who have not
what is due, to make remittances as soon as pofjiblen
On theje rcceipts> the continuation of this Gatette, 0-
the plan of an extensively circulating pater W
lately fujpcndtd,