&tiz(fu 0)
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS. AND SATI'RDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 60. H/'■' H.STR F.F.T, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 51, of Vol. IV.]
Grand Family Bible.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING PY SUBSCRIPT IO
An ELEGANT EDITION of the
SACRED SCRIPTURES
Of ihe OLD and NEW TESTAMENTS, with ihc
Apocry phA,
On a very large and beantiful new Type, and [uperßnt
Paba
THE great importance of the Holy Scriptures,
interfiling to every individual ; the divine excel
lence of its dottrinesand precepts, and the beauty
and fublimitv of its pafTages, have so long made it
a capital object of attention, as to preclude occa
sion or opportunity for eulogiurn.
The piety or enterprize of individuals has pre
sented this invaluable book to the public in a va
riety of forms ; in fotne editions it has been highly
cmbellifned with superb engravings, which have
greatly enhanced its price ; in others it hgs been
accompanied with voluminous commentaries,
which necefTarily encreafed the size; while a va
riety of plain cheap copies have generally diffufed
the knowledge of the Scripture, and made the
purchase easy to every class.
Without wishing in the fmallcft degree to leflen
the merits of the various editions, whether plain
6r ornamented, which the public aie already in
pofleflion of, it is pertinent to remark, that very
many readers of taste and judgment have exprefled
a wish for a Family Bible unencumbered with ad
ditions. There still appears room for another
edition on a beautiful new type, superior in size
and elegance to any bible that has yet been printed
in the Englilh language, and which, leaving the
adventitious circumftarices ot 01 nament or com
ment, may exhibit thc Oracles oj Cod in their na
tive limplicity.
SPECIMEN OF THE TYPE.
5 And God said,
d Let there be light: and
there was light.
With refpe£Hul fubmiflion to the judgment and
candour of the public, the following proposals are
offered :
I. The shall be printed with the greatest
fidelity and attentjon to correftnefs both in the
text and marginal references, on a fuperfine Paper
made on purpose, with an elegant new Type cast
for the woik of the size of the above Specimen.
11. The work will be comprised in twenty
number?, making two elegant volumes in Folio;
to be fuinifhed to fubfciibers at one dollar each
number. T'6 prevent <my complaints of want of
punctuality, no psurt of the work will be delivered
unlef paid for.
111. The fiift number, containing sixty folio
pages, eltganily printed, will be furnifhed on the
firfl Saturday of July next, when fubferibers are
to pay the price of the firft and second numbers,
ancl the price of one number to be always in ad
vance till the wotJc is Completed. The iubfequent
numbers to be published regularly on the ftrJt Sa
turday of cacti succeeding month, till the whole
is Hnifhed.
Subscriptions will be received in Philadel
phia by the Potoliftiois, Thomas Dobson, No. 41,
South Second- ftrcet, and Jon r* Pa rke r , No. 259,
Nprth Second-ftr.ept; and by all the Booksellers :
in Charleston, by William P. Young ; Richmond,
by Aichibald Currie ; Baltimore, by James Rice ;
Wilmington, by Peter Bryhberg ; by
Thomas Allen; New-Haven, by Isaac. Ketrs;
Providence, (R. I.) by William Wilkmfon; Sa
lem, by Thomas Cufhing ; Boston, by David
Weft, Benjamin Guild, and Thomas & Andrews.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES
MUCH declamation has been indulged against
certain charters, who are charged with
advocating the pernicious doctrine that u pub
lic debt} are public blcjfings," and with being friends
to a perpetuation of the public debt of tlie coun
try. Ampng these characters, if the Secretary
of the Treasury has not been named, he has
been pretty plainly alluded to. It is proper to
examine what foundation there is for those
charges.
Tiiat pfficer, it is very qertain explicitly
maintained, that the funding of the existing
debt of the United States would render it a
national blessing.—And a man has only to tra
vel through the United States, with his eves
open, and to oblervc the ii; v igoratlon of indus
try in ©very branch, to be co iv'nced, that the
portion was well founded., — wlether right
or wrotK, it is quite a d.ierent thing from
maintaining, as a general proposition, that a
public debt is a public blefTji • — .and
temporary ci 'uinft mces might render that ad
van u.;>e,nn, at one time, which at another
might be urtfuL
It is known, that prior to the revolution, a
great part of tie circulation of the country was
carried on by paper money ; that in confe
quencc of the events of the revolution, that re
fonrce was, in a great measure, destroyed, by
being discredited, and that the fame events had
d-ftroyed a large proportion of the monjed and
mercantile capital of the country, and of per
sonal property generally. It was natural to
think, that the chasm created by these circum
ltauces requiied to be supplied ; and a just the-
Saturday, September 15. 1792.
orv was fuffiqent to demonstrate, that a funded
debt would ar.twer the end.
To infer, that it would have such an efFect
was no more to maintain the general doctrine of
44 public debts being public benefitsthan the fay
ing, that paper emiifions, by the authority of
government, were ufeful in the early periods of
the country, was the maintaining, that they
would be ufeful in all the future stages of its
progress.
But to put the matter out of all doubt, and
to fliew how de£titute of caftdor the insinuations
against the Secretary of the Treasury, on this
head, have been, I have extracted, and ilia.ll
insert here some paffaees from three of his re
ports to the Ho life of Representatives; by which
it will be seen, that his conduct as well as his;
language have been in uniform opposition to
the dodtrine charged upon him. The length
of these reports, it is probable have prevented
many well disposed persons from being acquaint
ed with their contents ; the prelum ption of
which emboldens the calumniators of public
chara&ers and measures to make airertions, of
the faliehood of which, the mere perusal of of-:
ficial documents would convict them.
Extract from a report of the Secretary of the
Treasury on the fubjeft of a provision for the
public debt, presented the 14th of Jan. 1790.
ii Persuaded as the Secretary is y that the proper
funding of the present debt, will render it a national
bleffng ; yet he is so far from acceding to the portion,
in the latitude in which it is sometimes laid down, that
•' public debts are public benefits," a position inviting
to prodigality, and liable*to a dangerous abuse, —
that he ardently wishes to fee it incorporated, as a
fundamental maxim, in the lyilein of public crcdit
of the United States, that the creation of debt (houid
always be accompanied with the means of extin
guishment. This he regatds as the true ferret for
rendering public ciedit immortal.—And he pre-
Jnm.es that it ts difficult to conceive actuation, in which
there may not be an adherence to the maxim. At leafl
he feels an unfeigned solicitude, that this may be at
tempted by the United States, and that they may com
mence their meaj'ures for the eflablipiment of credit,
with the observance of it."
Extract fiorn a leport of the Secretary of the Trea
sury on Manufa6lures, presented the sth of De
cember, 1791.
After using several arguments to illustrate the
operation of a funded debt as capita!, the Secretary
concludcs thus : " There are refpedable indivi
duals ', who,front a just aversion to an accumulation
of public debt, are unwilling to concede to it any kind of
utility. wKo can djcern no good to alleviate the ill with
which they Juppofe it pregnant ; who cannot be pcrfua
ded y that it ought in any fenje to be viewed as an en
creafe of capital, lejl it jhou/d be inferred, that the more
debt the more capita!, the greater the burthens the great
er theblrffings of the community).
44 But it inter efts the public councils to eflimate eve
ry objetl as it truly is, to appreciate how Jar the good
in any measure is compenjated by the ill, or tile ill by
I the good, either of them is f Idom unmixed.
'* A'either will it folow, that an accumulation
of debt is desirable, because a certain degree of it
operates as capital. There may be a plethora in the
political, as in the natural body ; there may be a Hate
of tilings in which any such artificial capital is un
neceflary. The debt too may befwelled to such a size,
as that the greatejl part oj it may cease to be ufejul as
a capital, Jerving only to pamper the dissipation oj idle
and uijjolute individuals ; as that the Ju/ns required to
pay the interejl upon ii may become oppreJJive y and be
yond the means which a government can employ, con
fidently with its tranquility to raise them ; as that the
rejources oj taxation, to face the debt, may have been
Jlrained too far to admit oj extensions adequate to ex
igencies , which regard the public fafety.
44 IV here this critical point is, cannot be pronounced;
but it is impossible to believe, that there is not such a
point.
" Andas the viefffiiudei of nations beget a perpetual
tendency to the accumulation oj debt, there ought to be
in every government a perpetual, anxious and un
ceafingettoit to reduce that, which at any time
exiits, as fact as (hall be pra&icable, confidently
with integrity and good faith."
Extra# from a report of the Secretary of the Trea
sury, relat ve to additional lupplies for carrying
on the Indian War, presented the i6ch of March.
J79 2
" Ihe result of mature refleflion is, in the mind of
the Secretary, a jiiong conviction, that the lafl of the
three expedients, which have been mentioned [that was
the raising ot the sum required by taxis] is to be
preferred to cither of the other two.
" Nothing can moie ivttreft the national credit and
profperit)■, than a conflant and fflematic attention to
buibaml 4i.1l ihe means previously polTeflVd tor ex
tinguishing the prclVntdcbt, andio avoid, as much
as pofliblr, the incurring of any new debt.
" Necefjity alone therejorc can jufify the application
of'any of the public property, other than the annual re
venues, to the current fetvice, or the temporary and
casual exigencies oj the country- or the contracting of
an additional debt, by loans, to provide for those exi-
gencies.
" Great emergencies indeed might exifi\ in which
loans "would be indjpenfable. But the occasions which
will jujlijy them mvft be truly of that description.
44 Ihe prejent is not offucha nature ; the sum to he
provided is net oj magnitude enough to furnifk the plea
of nccf/ity.
" faxes are never welcome to a. community ; they
seldom fail to excite tineafy fenfitiom more or less ex
tenfive —Hence a too frovg propensity, in the govern
ment of nations, to anticipate and mortgage therefour
ccs oj poferity, rather t/.an encounter the inconvenien
ces of a prejent increase of taxes.
121
" But this policy, when not di&atcd by *ery
peculiar circumstances, is of the worit kind—its
obvious tendency is, by enhancing the permanent bur
thens of the people, to produce Ufiing dijlrefs, arid ?ts
natural ijjue is in national bankruptcy.
4k Ji will be happy, if the councils of this coun
try, fanftioned by the voice of an enlightened
community, ihall be able to purlue a diticrent
COU' fe."
liere is example added to precept —in pur
suit of a doctrine, the oppolite of that which
is charged upon him—the Secretary did not
scruple to hazard the popularity of his adminis
tration with a class of citizens, who, as a class,
have been among the firmed: friends of the go
vernment, and the warmest approvers of the
measures, which have restored public credit.
—The circumstance indeed has been a weapon
dexterously wielded against him by his enemies,
who in consequence of the increase of duties
proposed have represented him as the oppreflor
of trade. A certain description of men are for
getting out of debt; yet are against all taxes
for railing money to pay it off. They are a
mongst the foremoft for carrying on war, and
yet will have neither leans nor taxes.—They
are alike opposed to what creates debt, and to
what avoids it.
In the iirft cafe, their meaning is not difficult
to be divined—in the last it would puzzle any
man not dndued with the gift of second light
to find it out—unless it be to quarrel with and
ptitl down every man who will not content to
walk in their leading firings ; or to throw all
thiugs into confufion. FACT.
Foreign Affairs.
PARI S.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
June 18
The President announced thefollow
ingLetter from M. La ; Kayette to
the National Aflfemblyi
Entrenched Camp of Maubeuge, Juttc
16, 1792, 4th Year of Liberty.
" Gentlemen,
" A T the moment, too long delay
-fx. Ed perhaps, at which 1 am go
ing to call your attention to great
public interests, and point out among
our dangers the conducft of a minis
try which my correspondence has long
since accused, I am informed that un
masked by its divisions, it has funk
under its own intrigues; for, un
doubtedly, it is not by facrificing three
colleagues, from their own infignifi
cance the mere creatures of his power,
that the leafl excufeable, the most
noted of these minilters, will have
cemented in the King's council his
equivocal and scandalous exifience.
" It is not enough, however, that
this branch of the government should
be delivered from a baneful influence.
1 lie public weal is in danger : the fate
of France depends chiefly on her re
presentatives ; of them the nation
expetfts her salvation. Bur, when she
gave herfelf a conllitution, she pre
Icribed to them the only course by
which they call save her.
" Persuaded, gentlemen, that the
Rights of Man are the law of every
constituting allembly, a constitution
once formed becomes the law of the
legislators appointed under it, it is to
yourfeives that 1 am bound to de
nounce the too powerful efforts now
making to carry you beyond the rule
which you have protnifed to follow.
"Nothing Ilia 1 1 hinder me from
exercising this right of a freeman,
from fulfilling this duty of a citizen ;
neither their momentary errors of
opinion ; for what are opinions when
they deviate from principles ? nor my
refpedt for the represent atives of the
people; for 1 reipetft Hill more the
people themselves, of whom the con
flitution is the will fnpreme ; nor the
favor you have conltantly fliewn to
me; for that 1 wish to prelerve as I
obtained ir, by an inflexible love of
liberty.
" y-unr circumstances are difficult ;
France isnienaced from without, and
agitated-within. While foreign courts
snnonnci the intolerable proje<ft of
attacking our national fpvereignty,
and thus declare thenifelves- the ene
niies of France, internal foes, intoxi
cated with fanaticifiu and prule, en
[Whole No. 555.}
tertain chimerical hopes, and fatigue
us still more with their nifoit'nt ii>a
lignity.
" VOll ought, gentlemen, to fup
pret's tliein, and you cannot have the
power to do so, without being yotir
ft'lves confticutional and juit.
" You defii e to be so without doubt,
but cart your eyes 011 what partes in
your own body, and all around you.
" Can you dillemble that a faction,
and, to avoid vague denominations,
that the Jacobine faction has occa
sioned ail the difoiders. It is thac
faction to which 1 loudly impute them.
Organized like a separate empire in
its metropolis and its affiliations,
blindly directed by certain ambitious
chiefs, this forms a diHinct corpora
yon in the mid (I of the French peo
ple, whose power it ul'tirps by subju
gating their reprefentati and their
mandatories.
" It is there that, in public He
tings, love of ihe laws is denominated
ariflocracy, and their infraction pa
triotism. There the aflaflins of De
filles receive triumphs—the crimes of
Jourdan find panegyrists—there slfo
the recital of the allaflination ihac
stained the city of Metz, excited in
ternal acclamations of y>y.
" Can it be believed that they will
escape reproaches by flickering them
selves under an Aultrian manifello,
in which these fet'taries are named ?
Are they become sacred because Leo
pold has pronounced their name?
And because we have tofight with fo
reigners, who presume to meddle in
our quarrels, are we released from
the duty of delivering our country
from domeltic tyranny ?
" What import to this duty either
the project of foreigners, or their
connivance with counter 1 evolution
ills, or their influence on the luke
warm friends of liberty ? It is I who
denounce this left ; I who, without
speaking of my pad life, can answer
to tliofe who feign suspicions of me ;
" approach in this critical moment,
in which every man's character will
fool) be known, and let us fee which
of us, tnofl inflexible in his principles,
most firm in his refillance, will bell
brave the obltacles and the dangers
which traitors wish to hide from their
country, and which true citizens know
how to calculate and encounter for
her fake."
" And how (h6uld I longer delay
td fulfil this duly, when every, dajr
weakens the conilituted authorities,
and l'ubititutes the spirit of a party
for the will of the people ; when the
audacity of agitators imposes (Hencp
on peaceable citizens, and supplants
ufefol men ; when devotion ta a fe&
is made th£ substitute of *11 public
and private virtues, what in 'a free
country ought to be the aufteve and
only rowans of arriving at the firlt
fundtions of government ?
" It is after'having opposed to all
obstacles and all snares the courage*
otfs and persevering patriotifin of an
army, facrificed perhaps to combini*-
tionfc againftits leader, that I can now
oppose to this faction, the correfpon
fpence of a miniflry, the worthy pro
duction of its club—a correspondence
of whic,h all the calculations are falfe,
the promises vain, the information
fraudulent or frivolous, the councils
perfidious or contradictory ; where,
after having prelled me to advance
without precaution, and to attack
without means, tliey began to tell
me that refiftauce would soon be im
polfible, yrheu my indignation repel
led the dastardly aflertion.
" What l'Cmarkable conformity of
language, gentlemen, between those
[factious men who avow their aristo
cratic spirit, and those who usurp the
name of patriots. Both wish to sub
vert our laws, rejoice in disorders,
rife up'againft the authorities con
ferred by the people, detest the Na- 1tional Guard, preach indiscipline to
the army, and sow sometimes diltruft,
sometimes discouragement.
"As for me, gentlemen,who espous
ed the American cause, at the very
moment when its ambafladors declar
ed to me that it was loft* ; who thence
forward devoted myfelf to a pei fe
vering defence of liberty, and the f'o
vereignty of the people ; who, on the
nth of July, 1789, 011 presenting to
my country a declaration of rights,
dared to tell her—For a nation to be
free, it ir fufficient that Jhe wills it; 1
come now, full of confidence in the
justice of our cause, of contempt for
the cowards who defer: it, and of in
dignation against the traitors who
would fully it ; 1 come to declare that
the French nation, if she is not the
inoft vile in the universe, may and
ought to refirt the conspiracy of kings
formed against her.
" It is not, undoubtedly, in the
midst of my brave army, that timid
fenliments are permitted ; patriotism,
energy, discipline, patience, mutual
confidence, all the civil and military
virtues I have found in it. In it the
principles of liberty and equality are
cherished, the laws respected, pro
perty sacred ; in it neither calumnies
nor factions are known ; and when 1
recollect that France has several mil
lions capable of becoming such sol
diers, I ask myfelf to what pitch of
debasement would an imtnenfe peo
ple be reduced (till stronger in their
natural resources than in the defences
of art, opposing to a monstrous con
federation the advantage of combi
nations directed to a single object, for
the base idea of facrificing their/fove
reignty, of covenanting for their li
berty, of fubniitting their declaration
of rights to negociation, to appear
one of the possibilities of the ifl'ue
that is rapidly advancing upon us.
" But in order that we, soldiers of
liberty, may fight with efficacy, or
die with profit to our cause, it is ne
cessary that the number of the de
fenders of our country be speedily
proportioned to that of their adver
saries ; that (tores of all forts be mul
tiplied, and facilitate all our motions :
that the comfort of the troops, their
equipage, -their pay, the provisions
for their health, be no longer exposed
to fatal delays, or pretended Pavings,
which always tnrn out the direct re
■verfe of their objedt.
_ " Above all, it is neceflary that the
citizens rallied around the confuta
tion be allured that the rights which
it guarantees will be refpecfted with
a religious fidelity, that shall drive
its enemies, concealed or public, to
despair. .
" Reje<fl not this wifli t it is that
of the sincere wish of the friends of
your legitimate authority. Afl'ured
that no unjust consequence can flow
from a pure principle, that no ty
rannical measures can serve a cause
which owes its force and its glory to
the sacred bails of liberty and equa
lity, wake criminal justice relume its
constitutional courle ; make civil e
qnality, and religious liberty, enjoy
the entire application of their true
principles.
" Let the royal power be untouch
ed, for it is guaranteed by the confli
tution ; let it be independent, for its
independence is one of the springs
of our liberty ; let the king be rever
ed, for he is inverted with the natio
nal majesty j let him have the power
of chufing a ministry that wears not
the chains of a faction ; and if there
be conspirators, let them peri/h by
the sword of the law.
" lii fine, let the of clubs,
annihilated by you, give place to the
* The Editor has been favored with ihc follow
ing rcmiiks on this partage :
" There is one unfortunate phrase in M de la
Fayctc's Letter to the National Affcmbly, which
refpeft (or his person and charafler induce* a be
lie is an error which a Translator might readily
fall into — M de la Fayette speaks of << the verv
moment when its AmbafTador, declared to him
mat it (the cause of Amn ica) was loft."
The American Coinmiflioners were at th*>
time alluded to, ft,led in Pans, Hinifires des EtJ,
Vms. The French Ministry were called Us Mini/
tres without addition, and Us Mi,nJ} res , as URo
could or.ly mean the French King and French
Ministers. That the French Ministry thought th
cause loft, is known ; but it is hardly poftiblc thai
the declaration instanced, could have been made
by the Ameiicin Comm.doners It is therefor
fuppofed that the article befofe the noun wa, Us
which would make the sense comnleat and con'
fiftent with truth ; but the article fes, obliges th,
J ranflator to denominate Ministers, Ambassador
and the aiKecedent confines their quality to Ami
reign of the law, their usurpations to
the firm and indeperident exercise of
the constitutional authorities, their
disorganising maxims to thetrue prin
ciples of liberty, their delirious fury
to the calrti and steady courage of a
nation that underltands its rights and
defends them : in fine, their factious
combinations to the true interelts of
our country, which, in this moment
of danger, ought to unite all ihofir to
whom her fubjiigation and her ruin
are not obje<fts of atrocious joy, or in
famous speculation.
" Such, gentlemen, are the repre :
fentarions and the petitions fubrtiitted
to the national assembly, as they are
to the king, by a citizen, whose love
of liberty will never be honestly ques
tioned ; whom the different factions
would hate less, if he had not raifecj
himfelf above them by his difinterefl
ednefs ; whom silence would have
better became, if, like so many others,
he had been indifferent to the glory
of the national aflembly,and the con
fidence with which it is of importance
that it should be surrounded ; and
who cannot better rectify his own
confidence, than by laying before it
the truth without disguise.
" Gentlemen, I have obeyed the
dictates of my conscience, and the
obligations of my oaths. I owed it
to my country, to you, to the king,
and above all, to myfelf, -whom the
chances of war do not allovy to port
pone observations that I think ufefDl';'
and who wish to believe that the al
fembly will find in this a new homage
of my devotion to its constitutional
authority, of my personal gratitude,
and of my respect.
(Signed) FAYETTE
July 10.
resignation of the ministry.
M. Joly now rose, and fignified in
the name of all the ministers, " that
having come intoadminiftration with
the express intention of serving the
(late, and feeing it to be impossible
to be of any further advantage to it,
they had all given in their resignati
ons."
(Loud and reiterated plaudits from
he Galleries.)
STATE OF THE EMPIRE.
M. Lamourette proposed :
ift. To order Arms, Provisions, and
Ammunition to be got ready imme
diately for 450,000 men.
2d, To fend Commiflariesto the Fron
tiers.
id, To Decree jointly with the King
an a<il of oblivion relative to the
Commotions of June 20.
July 12.
Extraordinary Tribunal in theCaftle
of the Thuilleries.
Complaint having been made to
the Aflembly, that several judges of
the peace had exercised an unconsti
tutional authority in the pa
lace, the Executive Power and Accu
fateiu* Public were de(l red to report
the steps taken, in order to bring
them to justice.
BADGES OF DISTINCTION.
In confeqitence of a report from a
Committee, it was resolved that the
members of the Aflembly, and the
adminiflrators of the diftri<fl* and de
partments, should wear, while on du
ly, certain charafteriftic and emble
matical badges, in order to dirtir.guifti
them from their fellow citizens.
LETTER FROM THE KING.
" M. LE PRESIDENT,
" I have inftrnrtcd the minister of
jiiftice to transmit to the National
Aflembly, in compliance wiili the
Vlllth Article of the lid Sedion of
the lVth Chap, of the Constitution,
the Proclamation iflued by me, in con
sequence of the Arret of the Depart
ment, in regard to the provisional
suspension of the Mayor and Procu
reur de la Commune of Paris.
( si g n ed) " LOUIS.
(Counter-signed) "DeJOLY."
M. P E T I O N
Now appeared at the bar, amidst
the acclamations of the members and
the fpe&ators.
He demanded that the AfTembly
mould judge ngoroufly between him
and his persecutors. The depart
ment, conscious of its own unpopula
rity, a„d envious of the confidence
which the people reposed in the mu
nicipality, had always atuleavored to
mor ti f y the magistrates of the people.
It had continually opprefl'ed and u-
122
furped their powers, and had ever
been ambitious to be the creatures of
the Court, rather than the servants
of the Nation.
Hatred and vengeance were com
panions in every paragraph of tne
'late Arret : it was filled with calum
ny and untruth ; it has accused him
of negligence, and libelled the inha
bitants of the Fauxbonrg St.
as a set of men fufpe«Sed of robbery !
Of what had this department to
complain ? Had a single person fall
en by the hands of ihe people What
did it lament ! That a martial law
had not been proclaimed ? That a
croud of citizens had not perilhed ?
That a civil war had not taken place ?
As to the confirmation of their sen
tence by the King, M. Petion said,
110 one need be altonifhed at it, for
the department had supported the ex
ecutive power, and the executive
power in its turn, now supported the
department. (Loud plaudits from all
parts of the Aflembly.)
M. Petion was admitted to the ho
nors of a Seance.
July 18
THE KING OF GREAT BRITAIN
j A letter was read from the French
minifterat London, containing a note,
in which his majesty declines the inter
polation of his good offices with his al
lies on the continent, in regard to
the affairs of France, but promises,
for his own part, to observe the ftritfl
eft neutrality.
Evening Sitting
The secretaries read the papers sent by the
department tie I'Ardeche, from which it appear
ed, that M. duSaillant, and a Count de Combet,
were agents to the French Princes, and that
their bufmefs was to create infurre&ions in the
Southern Provinces. The Catholics were to
rife against the Protestants; the Royalists, who
are for the old monarchy, against the Patriots ;
and in (hort, the whole of the Southern Provinc
es was to become an immense burying ground.
The letters of the king's brothers, directed to
M. du Saillant, left no room to doubt the exis
tence of this conspiracy, which is now entirely
laid open. The generals and commanders are
named. Theirditferent tasks are allotted them,
and the routs they were to take delineated.
The Princes inform the confederates, that one
of them is immediately to set out for Spain,and
from thence to advance to take the command
of the army of the south, with a view to restore
the old monarchy,and alio the priests and nobles.
A decree was parted to fell all the episcopal
palaces with the gardens and grounds belonging
to them. This is expected to produce eleven
millions of livnes. The bishops whohave taken
the oaths are to receive a compensation in mo
ney.
The AiTemblv sent a deputation to attend the
funeral of the celebrated American Pau l Jones,
who died yesterday at Paris. It was objected,
that he was a Calvinift, but the opje&ion was
orerruled.
July 2t.
The order of the day called the attention of
the AfTembly to the discussion of the denuncia
tion,againft M. la Fayette.
M. Lacource, after a violent declamation a
gainst the condu<sV of that General, concluded
with demanding that he should be put in a state
of accusation.
His speech was demanded to be printed.
The Affeinbly upon deliberating, refufed to
comply with the requeil. A scene of noise and
tumult followed.
M. Tournay gave his opinion for the accusa
tion of M. la Fayette, whom he regarded as a
traitor, or at least a conspirator who wilhed to
domineer between the people and their enemies.
It was demanded that the discussion Ihould
be closed.
M. M. Fauchet, Baziere, and Chabot, oppos
ed the demand.
The debate became tumultuous; the spec
tators took part by applauding and and
by encouraging or reviling the speakers, as they
favored or disapproved of their opinions.
The tumult encreafed. The President com
plained that there was a (peculator, who hided
behind him, and demanded that he fhcruld be ar
rested. The tribunes instantly were all in con
lufion. The I'refident put 011 his hat, and or
der was (lowly reflored.
M. Briifot demanded the prorogation of the
discussion.
M. Fauchet demanded the adjournment till
M. I-uckner ihould have given an explanation
on what had been alledged, that M. la Fayette
had proposed to him to march their two armies
to Paris.
M. Gaudet read forne information to this
pyrpofe, which he had gathered in the conver
sion with M. Luckner, whom he affirmed to
have said, " I do not deny that it was proposed
to me in the name of la Fayette, by M. Bureau
de Puzy, who had been thrice President of th{
Conftitueut Aflemblv ; I replied to M. Bureau,
that M. la Fayette was master of his conduct
and might do as he ehofe, but that if he march
cd to Paris, I should march after him, and coun
teraft his designs by force ; M. Bureau replied,
But the life of the King is in danger."
M. Gaudet depolited the note containing this
information on the Bureau, and signed it.
The President announced, that some citizen"
alarmed for the fafetv of the Aflembly, demand
ed to be admitted, and likewise that a croud
were advancing to the Tluiilleries.
M. Petion appeared, and said, that he saw no
thing in the neighbourhood of the Assembly to
occasion alarm, and that those cit-en
wilhed to enter the Thuilleries, had' promln
to remain quietly at the gates
The adjournment was pronounced till t
ther information should be obtained refoeftl!!"'
the new denunciation. '
1 July 22.
\ M. Lacroit obferve'd, that the Affemblr
:not terminated their diftnffion of the acJati'n
which had yesterday been made against M
Fayette, and demanded that Messrs, Luckner
and La Fayette ftiould be bound to make posi
tive declarations relpefting thefaft which had
been brought forward; and M. &,r e au ftontd
he Jummaned to the bar to give the neceffarT
information of which,he was in poOc/lion.
This motion was. adopted.
LONDON, July jp.
' • /•
The Turks. We learn f/om the
ronners, that 'he Ottomans have cut
to pieces 2ao Austrian foldieis, who
had marched to dispute with the
Turks the harvest of a field that they
had Town. If France had money to
throw into the lap of the Sublime
Porte, it might not be very difficult
to spirit up again an irreconcilable
hatred, only IMed by the exigencies
of the time.
At Coblentz a Prussian soldier hat
been (hot for having taken it into his
head to preach liberty to two citizens,.
His body served afterwards as a stool
on which the two citizens received
each jo blows with a stick.
The expences for his majesty's civil
lift for the last half year, ending July
the sth, as nearly as can be ascertain
ed, are 946,538!. Bs. ?d. ! ! !
The Ruffians called ;he Defenders
haye lately committed many outag
es in Ireland. At Dundalk a dange
rous riot was apprehended, when the
Ipeaker, accompanied by the gentle
men of the country, a troop ofhorfe,
and a company of foot, attended, or
dered the riot ai r t to be read, and ex
horted the populace to disperse. This
was ineffectual, and the soldiers were
pelted with (tones, &c. They were
then obliged to fire in their own de
fence, when fix ofthe insurgents were
killed, several wounded,and ten made
prisoners. The remainder inltantly
dispersed, & tranquility was restored.
A lerter from Cohlentz, dated 71 h
July, has this pa/Tage ; " The day
before yesterday the Duke of Brunf
wick dined with Monf. Count d'Ar*
tois and the Prince de Conde. Mar
fiials Broglio and de Caftres were of
the party. His serene highness said
wirh m uch modeftj , ' 1 never expect
ed to have dined with three generals
who beat me, and still lels to have
the honor of commanding them."
M. Dufaillant, the rebel arillocrat,
has been driven from his fortrefs by
the regulars, under the command of
M. Delbignac, who ordered the vil-
lage of Sr. Andre, in the interest of
M. Dufaillant 10 be burnt.
If we listen only to the fears or
hopes of some, we mult anticipate
nothing less than the arrival of the
Prussians at the gates of Paris. They
will not amnfe themselves, fay the
people, with besieging fortrefles ;
tlieir march will be diretS, and their
purpose executed with promptitude.
The President of tlie National Aflembly, in
ljuft so many word?, told them the other day,
that Anarchy had reigned long enough, and that
the rule of the Laws was now arrived. We
are glad they have at length made the discove
ry, and hope it is not made toolate to profitbvit.
The Duke of Brunfwick arrived at Coblentz
011 the 3d inft. and the Prince of Nassau, with a
;reat part of the army on the day following—
the Prutfian Army under the command of the
Duke of BrtUlfwick, at Coblentz, comprises
51,870 infantry, and 23,098 cavalry—the third
column of the Pruflian Army, at Frankfort,,
consists of 6,501 infantry, and 1,464 cavalry—
the fourth, at Manheina, of 7>477 f° ot > an( *
3,042 horse.
No situation can be conceived more embar
rafling than that of a Minister interrogated by
the Legislative body in Paris. —If his replies
are circumstantial he is tedious—if they are
brief, he holds them in contempt —ii he willies
to obtain proper information before he replies
then he refufes to anfwerthe representatives ot
people.
" I had rather be a Dog, and bay the Moon,
44 Than such a Minister."
The salary of Dr. Willis, for his attendance
on the Queen of Portugal, is ioool. per month.
The cafe of the Queen of Portugal is not yet
given up for loft, though the expeftstions of
her perfect recovery are not very sanguine at
prefer^.
Two/hips are lying at Depfbrd to take 011
board such American Loyalists as are golpg fct
t'ers to Upper Canada, and they are invited to
embark bv public notice from government.
The-fe veflels wiH fail for America without aoy
delav, as soon a r tJ~?y get on board their dated
number of palfengers and their baggage.July 27.
A-violent remedy is talked of for the indispo
sition of the Queen of Portugal. This is the
leading her Miijefty into a temporary building
eretted in a large piece of water, into which flic
is to fink immediately upon her entrance, and
to be taken out by persons provided for tha
purpose.
Asfaft as the French army under Luckner,
and that lately commanded by Fayette, retire,
the Auftrians press on to take their ground, and
are now forcing their route, by Bavav, towards
the interior part of the kingdom.
The Elector of Saxony is laid to have joined
the league against France, and furnifhes the al
lied powers with 24,000 auxiliaries.
The Duke of Brunfwick has iflued a procla
mation, forbidding, on pain of death, every
pruflian from entering the camp of the French
emigrants, and every French emigrant from
entering the Pruflian camp. The Chevalier de
Nauldes, either not having heard of the procla
mation, or imagining that the penalties would
not be rigorouily inflided, attempted to enter
the Pruflian camp, and was fliot dead by the
centinel. Count d'Egmont is to command the
right wing of the army of the Princes, but it is
not resolved that this army shall ast at all.
A warrant has just received the royal signa
ture, for from the Treafu y the sum of
20001. to the Trustees of the Protestant Dillent
ing meeting house at Fjirmingham, as a full
compensation for the lofTes and damages sustain
ed by the deftruftion of that edifice during the
late riots there.
Saturday, an officcr arrived at the Admiralty
Office with letters from Lord Hood in the grand
fleet, which were dated ofFUfhant, the 16th inft
where the fleet was then lying, and all well.
Tiit camp at BagiTiot, under the command of
the Duke of Richmond, is now formed, and the
different regiments are arriving daily. The
King goes occafionallv ; the Prince of Wales,
the Duchess of Gordon, Lady Susan, and several
persons of fafliion, are now at the camp.
One of the alTaflins of the late unfortunate
D lion teas executed at Lisle on the 13th inft.
A fort of revolution has taken place at Con
stantinople. The sublime Porte has established
a Privy Council with juriidi<stion in all politcal
matters, without which the Grand Vizier, can
not a<st. Despotism is thus some what fliaken
even in he favorite feat.
RICHMOND, September 5.
We are credibly informed that about 100 In
dians lately made an attack on Galliopolis, a
French settlement on the Ohio, opposite to the
mouth of t ; ie Great Kanahwa, which continued
•for some time. The Indians, after destroying
the Handing corn, killing four or five, and do
ing other mifchief, retreated.—About the fame
time two young women, named Morris, of
Kan; va country, were killed.
iALTIMORE, September 7.
M. lerlin, at the Tribune of the Jacobins,
in Pat s, made use of the following exprelfion ;
" Is * ere not one worthy citizen to be found,
w i" T' all pkirrgc a Porriartf into La Fayette's
Body
ROVIDENCE, Sept. 1
O Wednesday last the Bridge in the centre
of this town was finifhed. The completion of
w kof so much elegance and public utility
.v lought worthy of public notice, and was
ict ingly celebrated on the day following.
Tac artered military companies, under the
com nd of Cols. Tillinghaft and Whipple, pa
rades n the Bridge a little before noon. At
twelv'i o'clock fifteen cannon were discharged
upon t .e Br dge, which was adorned with an
tqu#l» umber of flags, and several manual firings
"ere . lib performed. The military companies
then e .corted his Excellency the Governor, and
1 large number of reipeftable citizens, with
the inafter-bu lder and mechanics of the Bridge,
to I'cderal-Hill, where, having partaken of a
• old collation, the discharge of cannon echoed!
t» toasts :
lis Bridge is built on the model of that
which connects Boston and Charlelton. Though
much inferior to that in length, it is inferior to
none in ftrengthard beauty. It is 120 feet
long, having a draw 22 feet. It is 56 feet wide,
vith chinese fence at the Jides, and palifadqed 8
feet from each fide. It is lighted by 6 lamps,
which were confti u<sted by Major Burrill, of
this towr*, and are suspended 011 polls, whose;
golden tops will long witness the taste and ge
nerosity of tliofe young gentlemen at whose ex
pence they were gilt.
This very neceflary piece of work has been
executed by Mr. Whiting, of Norwich, under
the agency of John Dorrance, Esq. in the course
of a few mouths, much to the Satisfaction of the
public.
We are informed that Mr. Whiting is appli
ed to refpe&ing the Bridge to be erected from
West-Boston to Cambridge.
NEWPORT, (R. I.) Sept. 3.
On Friday morning last, this town fultained
a very heavy loss by the death of Mr. Daniel
Rogers, in the 40th year of his age.
As a merchant and man of business, enter
prise, industry and pun&uality marked his con
duct ; in his temper and disposition he was hu
mane and benevolent, and in his manners affa
ble and polite; as a hulband, father, brother,
friend and mailer, few perhaps excelled him :
itfrfe virtues soon gained him general esteem,
and induced the freemen of the town, in April
last, to call him forth for one of their represen
tatives to the General Aflembly, and at their
lite choice to re-eJect him to fit in the
Goober session.
The anxiety and concern for his recovery,
apparent on every countenance, during a long
a-'d fe\ ere illness, demopftrated the fen'ibilitv
o nis fellow-citizens, and the part they (hared
ii his lufferings ; as did the great number of
si! ranks and denominations, paying the lafi
tibute to his memory, by their attendance at
hs funeral, on yesterday evening, a i-'cover how
fucerely they lament his untimely exit.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
TO ARISTIDES.
THOUGH thcie would be no great hazard of
mistake in inferring the writer of the paper
under the signature of Arijlides from " the appro
priate and prominent features" which chara&erife
theftyleof that paper; yet I forbear to imitate
the example which has been set, with too little de
corum, by naming or defciibing the supposed
author. The similitude of ilyle,or any other cir
cumstance merely probable, is too flight a founda
tion for so improper a procedure.
Peculiar circumltances which it is not neceflary '
10 explain, uniting with the conjrfture which is '
indulged refpecling the real Anjlidcs, lead to a
change of the original party to the charges. The
difculFion will be taken up and pursued hy one r
who is willing to be responsible for the allegations
he shall make, and who consequently will not re
fufe to be known,"on proper terms, to the officer
concerned. It is however not meant to invite en
quiry on that head. It is mod advisable that none
should be made. For any public purpose, none
will be vequifite. For any personal one, none
will be proper. What shall be said, will merely
to public conduit, and will be supported by
proof and argument.
Why then, it may he asked, the intimation of a
willingness to be known, if required ? The an.
Iwer is, merely to put an end to the epithets
" cowardlv afTaflin," 11 finking in the dark," and
other tropes and figures of a similar nature. Some
rhetoric rr.av be spoiled, but the elucidation of
truth will be promoted.
It occurs at once to an observant reader, that
Arijiides partes over in total silence, the leadiug ar
ticle of charge brought by the American against
Mr. Jefferfon —namely, That be is the injlitutor
and patron of a certain Gazette ptlblifhed tn this
city, the object and tendency of which ate to vilify
and depreciate the government of the United
States, to misrepresent and traducethe administra
tion of it, except in the (ingle department of which
that gentleman is the head ; implicating in the
most virulent censure the majorities of both houses
of Congress, the heads both of the treaitriy and
war departments, and sparing not even the Chief
Magiflrate himfelf; that in the iupport ot this paper,
thus hostile to the government, in the administra
tion of which he holds so important a trull, he has
not scrupled to apply the money of that very go
vernment; departing by this conduct from the
rules of official piopriety and obligation, and from
the duty of a and patriotic citizen.
This is the leading and main charge which has
been brought by the American againll Mr.Jefferfon,
which he supports in several ways.
lft. By dirett proof of an official connexion
between the Secretary of State and the Editor of
the National Gazette—coeval with, or rather an
tecedent to the jirjl efidblijhment of that paper.
2d. Bv the fuggeftiori of his being opposed to
the present govei nment of the United Statrs, while
it was under the consideration of the people.
3d. By the suggestion ot his being opposed to
the principal mealures which have been adopted
in the courfc of its adminiflration, particularly
those relating to the finances.
! The obje£t of the above recapitulation is to (hew
1 the true original ttate of the question; in order
that it may be clearly seen ho%v entirel) Arijiides,
in his defencc, loses fight of the principal point,
and contents himfelf with an indirect endeavor to
involve it in uncertainty, by disputing or denying
some positions which form only the collateral evi-
dencc.
It will now remain to fee how the charges of
the American have been and can be supported.
As to the connexion between the Secretary of
State and the Editor of the National Gazette, nei
-1 her of the following fa&s can or will be disputed.
I f any of them should be denied, it will be proved
beyond the pofiibility of doubt.
Ift. That the Editor of the National Gazette is
a Cletk in the department of State for foreign lan
guages, and as such, receives a salary of two hun
dred and fifty dollars a year.
2d. That he became so antecedent to the eflab
lifhment of his Gazette, having actually received
his fa! arv from the 17th August, 1791, and not
having publifhcd the fir ft number of his paper r«ll
the 31ft of O&ober following.
3d. That at the time he became so, there was
another ch.ara&er, a Clerk in the fame depart
ment, who undcrftood the French language; and
that the Editor of the National Gazette is a trans
lator of that language only.
4th. That the appointment was not made under
any Ipecial provision, marking out a particular
Clerk (hip of the kind, its duties, or its emolu
ments ; but under a general authority to appoint
Clerks, and allow them salaries, not exceeding the
average of 500 dollars to each.
sth. That the Editor of the National Gazette,
immediately preceding the eftablilhment of thar
papei, was the fuperintendant or conductor of a
paper belonging to Childs & Swaine, printed at
New-York.
These are the facts : The conclusion is irrefifta
ble. The ferret intentions of men being in the
repofitorics of their owrt breasts, it rarely happens,
and is therefore not to be expe&ed, that direst and
pofiiive proof of them can be adduced.
Presumptive fa&sand circumstances must afford
the evidence ; and when these are fufificiently
strong they ought to decide.
We find the head of a department taking the
Ed itov of a Gazette into his employment,as a clerk,
w:ih a stated (aiary—not for any special purpose,
which could not have been accompltfhed other
wile ; for he had, at the time, in his department,
a clctk Who was capable of performing the very
service required, and could without difficulty
have procured others fnnilarly qualified ; nor from
any particular neceflity arising from a too limited
allowance, or any other cause ; for he had it in
his power to allow an adequate compcnfation to
a character who might have been regularly attach
ed to the department.
The verv exiitence of such a connexion, then,
is alone a fufficient foundation for believing, that
thedefign of ihe arrangement was to secure an in
fluence over the paper, the Editor of which was so
employed. But the circumflances which attend
, t the nature of it beyond a doubt. That
which has beenjuft mentioned, namely,there hav
j ing been prcvioufly a clerk in the department qua
lified to render the service, is a weighty one. The
coming of a new pi inter, from another State to in
123
ftitute a Jiew paper—his having bfcen appointed?
clerk in the department prior to his removal t
this city—his having been compenfaied before 1:
was even present, to latisly the appearance of ren
dering service ; these circumftanccs give a pon.
and energy to the language of the tranfadion whia
render if unequivocal.—There perhaps never w.
a more flimfy covering for the pensioning of
printer. Some ostensible ground for giving him
the public money was necessary to be contrive.l—
the cleikfhip of foreign languages was deemed,
plausible pretext—But no man acquainted with I
human nature, or with the ordinary wiles O'
political intrigue, can be deceived by it.
The medium of negociation between the Secre
[ i-ary of State and Mr. Freneau, in order to the in
. dilution of his paper, is known, and documents
i are poflVflcd which ascertain the person ; but thev
arc. at piofent withheld, f»om considerations of a
particular nature.—These are the more readily
yielded to ; because the ta£ts, which have been
stated, render it unnecessary to exiiibit them.—
Those fa&s prove to the fatisfaefcion of every im
partial mind, that Mr. JefYerfon is the Institu
tor and Patron of the National Gazette.
As to the complexion and tendency of that Ga
zette, a reference to itfelf is fuflicient. No man
who loves the government, or is a friend to the
public tranquillity, but must reprobate it as an in
cendiary and pernicious publication, and condemn
the auspices under which it is supported.
In another paper, the charges which have occa
sioned so much umbrage to Ariflxd.cs, will be more
corre&ly stated and enforced. The preciie terms
|of the advice which was given by Mr. Jefferfon to
Congress, refpefting the transfer of the French
debt to a Company of Hollanders, will be recited.
This chara&eriftic trait in the political princi
ples of that gentleman, will be submitted to the
honest feelings not only of the great body of the
yeomanry, to whom such affe&ed appeals are so
often made,but to honest men of whatsoever clafsor
condition. CAT ITLUS.l T LUS.
Philadelphia, Sept. 15.
By the latest accounts from the Westward it
appears that the Indies discover a temper di
rectly the reverie of pacific—that they have
facrificed Col. Hardin and Major Trueman ap
pears to be too true. That they have incelT
antly committed depredations on the frontiers
—that within the bounds of the State of Ken
tuckcy alone between forty and fifty persons
have been killed or made prisoners since last
spring ; and a party of 18 near Fort Jefferfon
who were making hay, were lately attacked—
one only escaped—and four that were
prisoners were burnt by the Shawanefe.
By accounts from Albany it appears that the
various plans of Bridges and Canals in contem
plation by the citizens in that part of the State
of New-York, are in a train of prosecution.—
The recent examinations of the rivers, See.
have ascertained that the proje&ed improve
ments in the interior navigation is much more
pra&icable than was ever conceived of.
Tuesday last a young man was committed to
the g£iol of this city, on suspicion of hisftaving
been concerned in the murder of Elizabeth
Reeve.
The State Gazette of Georgia, printed at
Augusta the 25th August, fays, that\V. A. Bowles
was hanged ac Madrid the 7th June,at the com
mon place of execution. This is probably pre
mature, as accounts of Bowles' being at Cadiz
fublequent to the 7th June, have been published.
By a public communication from Governor
Telfair, to the Representatives in Congress of
the State of Georgia, it appears that it will re
quire One Million of Dollars to be afiumed on'
account of that State, to cover its State Debts.
On Friday the 17th August, a fire broke out
in Halifax, Nova-Scotia, which consumed fix
tenements and the Ordnance Laboratory before
it could be got under. A Mr. Wellnor and his
wife periftied in the flames. The loss of pro
perty is said to be great.
The Pittiburgh Gazette of last Saturday con
tains no Indian intelligence.
Sunday the 26th August, three soldiers be
longing to* the Federal Army were (hot at Pitts
burgh, for desertion.
The British July Packet arrived at New-
York, last Sunday, via Halifax.
Mr. James Carey, late printer and proprie
tor of a iDublin Newspaper, entitled the Rights
of Jrijhnen, proposes publilhing a daily paper in
Richmond—to commence the firft of October
next.
The publication of 41 the private Life of Ben
jamin Franklin, Esq." is begun in London—it
appears to be from the Doctor's own notes, and
begins thus—
" My Dear Son,
" I have lately amused myfelf with colle&ing
some little Anecdotes of our Family, like."
Wednesday the sth instant was celebrated at
Providence, the anniversary Commencement of
Rhode-Island College. The proceifipn, at half
past ten o'clock, moved from College-Hall to
the Eaptift Meeting-house, where, after an in
troductory prayer by the Rev. Dr. Sti/lman, the
exercises of the day began—these being finifhed,
highly to the acceptance of a numerous audi
ence, the Degree of Bachelor in the Arts was con
ferred on leventeen, and that of Master in the
Arts on fix candidates.
The Degree of Doit or of Divinity was conferred
on the Rev. John Rippon, of London—the He v.
John Ryland, jun. of England—and the Rev.
Benjamin Fojler s of New-York. The Degree of
Doctor of Lazvs was conferred on the Rev. Perez
Fobes t of Raynham—!Ylr. Benjamin Weft, of Provi
dence—and the Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Secre
tary of the Treasury of the United States.
Ac the Commencement at Dartmouth CollegeJ
the 2sd uit. the honorary degree of M alter of Art J
was conferred on the Hon. Je r emi ah Wads!
worth—and that of Doctor o! Laws on th<3
Hon. Samuel Livermore, and the Hon. Joh u
Picks&inc, Chief Jullice of Ncw-Hampfhire.
ABSTRACT cf EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE,
Marshal Luckner was in Paris tlie 17th July
—the public mind was greatly agitated in ac
counting for the motives of his heing there.—
T ie late apparent reconciliation of parties in
the National AlTembly turns out a temporary
oufinefs, as violent debates {till take place, and
tactions still diftraft the public councils.—M.
Luckner left Paris about the 20th July—he in
much dilTatisfied with the decree which inter
dicts petitions from Generals of the armies.—
The decree, which declares the country to 1«
in danger, has been published with great cere
mony in all parts of the city—and books were
opened in which great numbers of citizens en
rolled their names.—-The Ailenibly have de
creed that the army lhall be reinforced, jo as to
make it confjft of 452, qoo men.—M. Dufaillant
the rebel ariilocrat and several of his friends
and followers have been cut to pieces, the per*
Tons legally authorized not being able to prevent
their being maifacred; the forts of Banner Sc Jaies
are. reduced to afhes.—Oll M. Dufaillant were
found papers which disclose an immense plot a
gainst the Conftituticn ; by far the most exten
sive of any attempted against it. M. Dufaillant
in these papers is named Generalifftmo of the
South, in which the counter-revolution was to
commence—copies of these papers were read
in the AlTembly, by which it appeared that M.
Dufaillant and a Count de Combet were agents
to the French Princes, that the Catholics were
to rife against the Protestants, the Royalists who
are for the old monarchy againlt the Patriots*
&:c.—The Cure de Bannes was facrificed by
M. Dufaillant and his troops. —Long and loud
debates ensued on reading these papers, and it
was decreed that fifty-feven persons were guilty
of high treason.—Since the death of Dufaillant
quietness is restored to the South of France —
The anniversary of the French revolution was
celebrated by the patriotic locieties in London.
—Accounts are received from Lord Cornwal
lis to the fourth of March, in which he speaks
in high terms of the officers and soldiers of his
army—but makes, no mention of the death of
Gen. Meadows.—The Amsterdam Gazette re
presents the partition of Poland as a matter fix
ed on—That notwithstanding the efforts of the
nation, the unhappy fate of that country leems
to be at length decided—Thus a people which
had set an example to the civilized world, by
eftablilhing a government which has railed the
human species, long deprefled and humiliated
by the iron hand of feudal despotism, to the rank
ailigned them in the original constitution of na
ture, are again to be made the sport of ambiti
on, the miserable slaves of arbitrary power and
lordly domination—That the righteous gover
nor of the universe may blast the designs of the
despots of the earth, and yet interpose that pow
er which is omnipotent to save, in favor of Po
land, mull be the ardent prayer of all good pa
triots.—The English army nnder Lord Corn
wallis is now in pofTeflion of Hyder Ally's su
perb Tomb, and an elegant palace near Serin'
gapatani—The Tomb is converted by the Bri
tish General into an *holpital for the sick and
wounded of his arm v.
Paris, according to the latest accounts, is in
a state of violent agitation ; every thing ap
pears to be guided by the impulse of the mo
ment —the constituted powers despised, and the
voice of faction allowed the utmost latitude that
imagination can conceive—Great desertions of
the officers of the army continue.—Compara
tive accounts of the British Cufloms, ExciTe,
&c. for the weeks ending the 2ift of July 1791,
and 1792. 179 1.
L. s. d. L. js. d.
Customs, 67,234 1 o 150,797 ti o
Excise, 300,456 o o 329,550 o o
Stamps, 16,269 o o 21,254 o o
Incidents, 13,486 40 9,317 17 o
L - 397,445 5 o 510,091 8 o
Increase for the week ending July 21, 1792,
above its corresponding week in 1791, one hun
dred thirteen thousand four hundred feventy
four pounds three {hillings !
The amount of the revenue in 1792, above
1791, has already considerably exceeded half a
million !
On the 20th July, a fire brol;e out in the
general hospital at Valenciennes. The build
ings, which served as magazines for the camp
equipage, were burnt. The Tick in the hos
pital were happily rescued from the flames.
This dreadful calamity, is said to have been the
effect of treachery, part of a match having been
found where the fire firft broke out. Soon af
ter the appearance of the fire, the Auftrians ad*
vanced from Bavay to Jeanlin, within a league
and a half of Valenciennes ; but they were vi
gorously repulsed with loss.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA
Ship Manchester, Clay,
Swanwick, Lowe,
A&ivr, Blair,
Alexander, Bailey,
Minerva, Wood,
Harriet, Allifon,
Brig Indullry, Kenyon,
Schooner Nancy, Butler,
Sloop Jenny, Darrell,
The Minerva has brought 397 pafTengers,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, t'zj*
3 per Cents, isfi
Deferred,
Full ihares Bank U. S. 49 per cent, prem.
lharcs, 60
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Eooksellers,
■DORSON. CAREY, YOUNG, & CRUKSHANK.
Liverpool
Havre-de-Gracc
ditto
Rofs (Ireiand)
Killabqgs
Londonden y
Sr. Euftatia
Charleston
Bermuda.Tie Index and Title-Page jor the
Thin Ti'.umt of this Gazette, is vow ready to be
deliver titi those uiho intend to bind that Volume.
(£9" The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars per
anntmt —One ha]to be paid at the time offuhfcribing.
IVANTED—TO RENT,
From the loft of Oitobcr next,
gST A convenient House, trior near the centre of
the City—Enquire of the Editor.
To he pMifltei h Subscription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old C*ony r ej.),
From September i 774, to Maich 1 789 ; —
An nuthntic and original colkftion of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c.
written during the late war ;
And extracts from the
SECRET JOURNALS.
( For particulars, Jee Proposals at large.)
Subscriptions are received by the principal
Bobkfellers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
New-Brunswick
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circumstances of a gentleman
who had undertaken to itifpofeof a propor
tion of the tickets in the New-Brunfwick Church
Lottery, having, in his opinion, rendered it incon
venient for him further to proceed in the sale
thereof, betWCeh eleven and twelve hundred tick
ets are unexpectedly returned to the Re&or,
Church-Wardens and Vestry-men. This lays the
Managers under the necessity oi further adjourning
the drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of O&ober next, that they may have time to trans
mit these tickets to the parts of the state where they
aie applied for, and leceive the returns. As there
are but few tickets besides these remaining on
hand, all persons who are disposed tp promote the
pious objett of this Lotteiy, or to take a chance
for the prizes therein, are rcquefted to (upply them
selves by the firft of O&ober; and the gentlemen
appointed to dispose of them, are defned to return
those to the Managers which then remain unfold,
to answer the applications of some gentlemen in
the neighbouihood, who are poltponed to this re
source for a supply.— And notice is hereby given,
that the tickets not returned to the Managers by
the eighth day of O&ober, will be considered as
at the nfk of the holders.
N. B. Robert Morris, Esq. of New-Brunf
■wick, is duly chosen one of the Managers of the
said Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law. (cpiOi)
100 Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cartibiidge Common, Madae.hufetts,
on the afternoon of the 18th ult. a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK, with a ftceJ clasp, containing
a number of valuable papers, among which were
the following Public Securities, viz.
Massachusetts Slate Notes—No. 2,425; dated
December 1, 1782, payable to Thomas Greenwood,
for/. 23 i6j. principal—No. 22,399, dated Ja
nuary j, 1785, payable to Nathaniel Cartridge, lor
£.to 10s. principal. —No. , dated January
1, 1785, (an army note) payable to Timothy How
ard, for/'. 8 8/. id. principal.—No. , a Note
(the date, and to whom payable, not
£. 3 os. 3i. principal.—One Indent
Certificate for Four Dollars, and a New-Hamp
shire Certificate lor about 12 payable in John
and Daniel Jenks ; also a number of Notes of Hand
one of which was for £. 572 given by Nathan ,
Bond to Samuel W. Pomeroy (by whom it was en-J
dorled) dated ill May, 1792, and payable on the
nth August following,) the others were all paya
ble to the Subscriber. The Securities are checked
at the different offices from whence thev were
i {Tiled, and the Notes of Hand by the different
signers, they can therefore be of no use to any but
the owner.
The Subscriber hereby offers a reward of One
Hundred Dollars to any person or perfom
who has found the some, and will return them to
him, or leave them wiih the Printer hereof, and
no queflions will be asked.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Salem, MajTachnfetts, August 1, 1792. (eptf)
T O B E SOLD,
(And possession given immediately)
A Valuable FARM,
T3' EASAN7 LY Gtuated, end well improved
containing 213 acres, whereol 47 are'wood
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made • [he
cleared land is under god fence, and is well
adapted to grafs,and there being so much meadow,
a large stock may be raised : it is also natural to
Wheat, and a proper attention toa well-kept stock
Will much improve its quality, and be the most
piohtahle : it has a young orchard of 200 apple
trees, a variety of peach and cher.y trees, and a
large garden. rheic areon the piemifes a hand
lome two story [tone house and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza; also, a good barn, with ftabline
cow-house Jianary, waggon.house, work-ftiop!
and fmoak-houfe. The situation is high, pleafart
and h, althy, and affords some very agreeable pro-
Ipects, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the main road to New-York, about a mile and a
half trom Princeton, Ncw-jerfey, and 43 from
th s city. The till was examined and approved
byemment council before thefubl'criber purchased
For further pan. ulars apply to the fubfcube. at'
No. t 4 i, South Second-street, or at No. 81, South
TA atei-ftreet, Philadelphia.
v n c • t ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
-VB. Stock for the larm may be had of the pre
lent tenant.
Also, to be Sold, and entered immediately
A two-rtory Br ck HOUSE and BAK E-HOL'SF
in Arch-IWt, N«. 3, 16 feettwo inchcs in front'
and 102 feet in depth. Auply as above
J ul
.**r
BOOKS,
TRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. A MERICANMUSEUM,fiom itscommence-
L ment in January 1787, to June 1792, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered,
seventeen dollars and three fifths.
This work, which is now conduced on an im
orovtd plan, containing the best pieces publilh.d
for and again ft the proceedings of government,
will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural,and mifcelianeous tlfcjys.
as any ever published in America, Pel haps in no
one work are so many valuable docuniVfits refpeft
ing the history of this country, col le£fed together.
His Excellencv the President of the United States,
has declared of if, that " a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement."
The fubfeription is two dollars and a half peV
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wish to
be supplied with this work, are rcqucfted to give
commiflion to friends in the city to fubferibe for
•nd receive it* Any of the back numbers
may be had in order to complete sets.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on Nur
ing and the management of Children
"We recommend these lettrrs to the perusal ol
those to whom they are particularly addressed,"—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101 — Price, bound.
62 cents.
3- Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—so edits.
I 6. L3dies' Pocket Library, containing Miss
More'sEflays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone on command of Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6f6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Piice a dol
lar and a qparrer.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1..L.D. profeiror of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : "We
have seen nothing on ihefe fubje&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the University in Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-fi/ths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Fermons. Price two dollars.
n. Necker'sTreatife on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lord
[Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
nne paper, 5 Bths of a dollar.
13. The Conftitutionsof thefeveral United States,
with the Federal Constitution, See. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Pricethree-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Sou!. Price half a dollar.
17 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—Price,elegantly bound and letter
-50/2—plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecum Price a
«|uarte®ollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Christian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged
Price a (ixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
of a dollar.
23. Select Poems, chiefly American-.-Price a
Sxth of a dollar. «<
[ Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment of
Books, European as well as American editions
wjjich he will dispose of on the molt teafonable
terms. Country gentlemen, who fa?or him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied in
the most fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries
or to fell ag.iin. '
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
PURSUANT to the lad Will and Ttftamcnt of
A 'rl ,^ V " Aux '»"«W.L U A» s „»,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurl
day, the lith of October next,at Gior getow n
on a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond W.th, approved security, to bear interest from
the dat-e—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation ol the deceased, containing between fix
I and seven hundred acres, the greatcft part of which
rich, heavy timbered land, exrremelv well vva
tered, and capable of affoidimg a very confiderahle
quantity ct fine meadow ;—Situated about 6 miles
from the Federal City,and the fame distance from
eorge-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
"rt healthy part of the country,
rhe improvements are, a very elegant two ftorv
r 8 H ° Uf n (wilh lour roo '" s and a
'S )Or entry, on a floor) and the neceffarv out
houses. HENRY TOWNSEND,)
ff-ntOl ( Executors.
r" I ''' THOMAS lOHNS, N
Tt-rvrtJ J OKI of CULUiviiii^.
' Hock deemed by those who have e\
States. The
a m leM he maVb 7 laCedWU '"" °<
mile ol the river Potowmac, half a mile from
mark.-, houlc in Georgetown, and one mile
from,he P.efidem', square, in the city of WT't
a fuua"on." ry '° dWd ' °" " ,e advam *g« of such
14Jul)
, newt ETS ~
'MI ERJAL.HYSON&SOUCHONG
No. 10,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
(rptf)
(—l24—)
Treasury Department,
August 10, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Trealury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next inclusive, foi the supply of all Rations
which may be required for the use of the United
States, from the firft day of January to the thirty
firft day of December, 1793, both d_ays inclusive,
yt the places, and within the diftii&s hereafter
mentioned, viz.
1. At any place or places betwixtYoik-Town &
Carli(l?,in the ifate of Pennfylvania,and Pittsburgh,
and at Pittsburgh, York-Town and Cailifle.
2. At any place or places from Pittsburgh to the
mouth of Big Beaver Creek, and at the mouth of
Big Beaver Creek.
3. At any place o» places from the said mouth to
the upper falis of the laid Big Beaver, and at the
uppei falls.
4. At anyplace or places from the said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places from the laid Mahoning
ove r to tin* Head Navigation of the River Caya
hoga, and at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any place or places from the said Head Na
vigation to the mouth of the said River Cayahoga
and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
the Big Beaver Creek to the mouth of the River
Mufkingum, and up the said River to the Tufca
rowas, at Tufcarowa.s, and thence over to
the Cayahoga River, and thence down the said
River to its mouth.
8. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
the River Mufkingum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, and at the mouth of <he (aid River Scioto.
9. At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the mouth of the Great Miami, and from thence
to the Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
10. At any place or places betwixt the mouth o!
the Great Miami, up the said Miami to and ai
Pique Town.
11. At any place or places from Fort Wadiingtor
to Fott Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
places from Fort Hamilton to Fort St.
Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At anv placeor places from Fort St. Clair to
Fort Jefferfon, and at Fort Jefferfon.
13. At any place or places from Fort Jefferfon to
the field of action of the 4th of November, 1 791,
and at the said field of action.
14. At any place or places from the said field of
a6iion to the Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
15. At anv place or places from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls of the Miami River, which
empties into Lake Ene, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at its rr.ol -h.
16. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said Miami River of Lake Epje toSandulky Lake,
and at Sanrfufky Lake.
1 7. At any place or places from the said Sandufkv
Lake to the mouth of the River Cayahoga.
18. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said River Cayahoga to Prefque Isle, and at Prcfquc
19. At any place orplaces fromPrefque Tfleto the
stream running into Lake Erie from towards the
Jadaghque Lake, and thence over to and at the
said Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alleg
hany River to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place or placesfromPrefquelfle toLe
Beuf, and at Le Bcuf.
2t. At any place or places from I.e Beuf to Fort
Franklin, and at Fort Fianklin, and from thence
to Pittsburgh.
22. At any place or places from theßapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of the Wabath River'. and from
the mouth of the said Wabath River to the mouth
of the River Ohio.
23. At anv place or places on the East fide of the
River Mifliflippi, trom the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the Illionois River.
24. At any place or places on the Eaftfide of the
Mitliflippi, bet ween ihe mouth of the Ohio and
the River Margot inclusively.
>5- At any place w places from the said Rivei
Marcrot to the River Yazous inclusively.
sC. At any place or places from the mouth of the
laid Wabalh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fori
Knox.
27. At any place or places from Fort Knox, up
the fa id Wabalh, to Ouittanon,and at Ouittanon.
28. At any place or placeslroin Ouittanon,up the
said \Vabalh, 10 the head navigation of a branch
thereof called Little River, and at the said head
navigation of Little River.
29. At any place or places from the said head na
vigation ol Little River over to the Miami Village.
30. At anv place 01 places from the mouth ot the
River Teneffee to Occochappo or Bear Creek, on
the said Rivei, inclusively.
31. At any place or places from the mouth of the
River Cumberland to Nathville, on the said River
and at Nathville. '
And at any place or places within thiitv miles
of said Nalhville to the Southward, Wcftward 01
Northward thereof.
Should any lauons be required at any places or
within other diltria., not ipecificd in thele p'ro
pofals, the price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the comrafto.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of th<
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or A of a pound of po { k,
Halt a ]ill of rum, brandy or whilkv,
One quart of fait, \
I wo quarts of vinegar,
Two pounds of soap, r P er 100 rat ions.
One pound of candles, )
The rations are to be furnifhcd in such nu .ti
ties as that there (hall at all times, during the laid
term, be fufficient for the consumption of the
troops at each of the said ports, for the foace of at
lead three monihs in advance, in good and whole
lome provifjons, if the fame (ball be required.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all losses
ned by the depredations of the enemy, or by
means of the troops ol the United States, (ball be
paid lor at the prices of the articles captured or de
!!| ro> l depofttions of two or more credita
le Charaders and the certificate of a eommiflion-
I r ° j": afcma,n,n S the circumstances of the
lols and the amount of the articles for which com
penlation is claimed.
B- STODDERT.
. he c °" ,raft for ,he a^ove fnoplics will be inadi
ci. er or one year, or for tzuo years, as may appeal
~ /
• eligible. Pcrfon, difpoM to con,raft
fore confine their otfen t 0 onc year or rhl
Treasury Department !
i\ be "«Wd « the ofjpce.ol ,hc S« r ,'
the Treasury, until the i 3 thdaybf Ofloh,
inclusive, lor the supply „ t a || ratu , ns wh ' ***
b? required for tbe ulc of the Unued State! f"* 7
the firll day of January io the thirty.si, | t
December l 793' botn dayj inclulive, at Sp Mnß fi,w
mine Statcot Maffacholeits. and ihePofl of W ft'
Pent, in thr Stare of New-Yo.k. Wt^
The rations to be supplied, are | 0 consist 0 f ih*
■ following articles, vi 7.
One pound of bread or flour ,
One p„,,„ d f or jof a poun( , of .
Hall a jill ol rum, brandy or whilky
One quart of fait, } '
Two quarts of vinegar, f
Two pounds of soap, r P er '?# ratior*.
One pound of candles. )
The propofalsmiv be made for both of tf,,
above-mentioned Ports, or separately, for S' !
field and Weft-Point,
Treasury Department,
August, 20th imo
OTICEis I.ereby given, that proposal's v'ill
be received atthe office of the Secret, ry 0 f
me Treasury unt.l the fourth day of Oaobrr
.nclufjvely, lor the supply of.h, follow,n g articl
thc Troo P s thc Service
the United Slates vie.
ro. TH. IKANTMM, artillery
46c 8 Hat. 18460 Shirts
ff-ll v™'' 7956 Pair of Sock.
fififiß w , ~ , 46 " 8 Bl "^ ; '
0608 VVoolcn Overalls 4608 Siocjct
9216 Linen Overalls 4608 Stock Clat
18376 Pair of Shoes 4608 Pair ofjrc,
FOR THf CAVALRY.
"30 Pdir of Slockin
360 Coats *44° Shins
360 Vests 260 Blankets
360 Pair of Leather 360 Slocks
(Breeches 360 Stork C'a;pc ;
720 Pair of Boots 1200 .Rifle Shin?, to
360 Pair of Spurs (made of Rulfia Sheetin
The above Cloth'ng to be delivered either i
N T ew-York, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the c
tton of the contra&or or contra&ors, or. or bclo'
ihe h day of June, 1793.
The ptopofals may comprise the whole of
before-mentioned Clothing, or any one or m
of thecomponent articles ; to be furnifticd.aeir ,
blv to patterns or specimens, which will be fh- .
at the War Office. Good security will be req> 1
ed for the puuftual and faithful performance
he contrast. The payment vviil be on the deli
ry of the Clothing, or, if necelfary, luch r.eafo.
1 hle advances will be made as the Secretary c.-f i
jTreafury (hall deem expedient.
War Department,
August 6, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all lie
Military Invalids of the United Staks, lii,
the sums to which they are intitled for fix mom
of their annual ptnfion, from the 4th dayof M#
1792, and which will become due on the sth A
ot September 1792, will be paid on the iaid r
by the Comrniflioners of the Loans within
States relpe£lively, under the usual regulations
Every application for payment mull be au- :
panied by the following vouchers.
ift. The certificate given bv the ftate,fpe(
thac the person poffefling the fame is in fact
valid, and afceitaining the sum to which as luch
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the follow
form :
1 A. B. came before me, one of the Juflices oj
county of in the Jlate of and made oath t
he is the fame A. B. to whom the 0; iginal certrfi
in his pojjeffion was given, of which the following
J copy (the certificate given by the Jlate to be rent
That he served (regiment, corps or vepl)
the time he was difabkd, and that he now rcfidgs 11
the and county of and has jfjidc 1
therefor the lafl years, previous to which he re•
sided in
In cafe an invalid ftiould apply for payment h
an attorney, the fa id attorney, besides the ccrtr
cate and oath before recited, mult produce a fp
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the follow,
form :
I, A. B. of county of Jlate of
1 hereby conflitute and appoint C. D. oj wy lawj
attorney, to receive in my behalf oj n>v p sT 'J
for fix months, as an invalid of the United Stat
fiom the fourth day of March, one thoufm-d J'-
hundred and ninety-two, and ending the fifth da \
September, one thoujandfeven hundred and ninety-tiffv
Signed and sealed
in the presence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminftlrati.
fnuft be accompanied with legal evidence of the
relpefiive offices, and alio of ihe time the invalic.
died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the
Piefident of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary/
The Printers in the refpeftive States a
requcfted to publish the above in their oewfp**
pers, for the (pace of two months.
George-Town.
A Number of LOTS in everv fnuaron whic'-
may be c'efired in City of Washington,
will be offered for sale by the Comnv.llioners, 01
Monday the Bth day of Oftobernext. One four ll
part of the money to be paid down, the rrficuc n
three equal annual payments, with yearly inter •
on the whole principal unpaid.
JOHN M'GANTT, Clff*
to the Confimii5 in,,p ' s *
[cp.l]
June 2, 1792,
¥Z%
W:
| Witncjfcs.