[No. 95, of Vol. lII.]
SMYRNA, Nov. 17.
TKE 1 ast letters from the Illand of Tenos an
nounce, that several kirlaugis, a cutter and
a galliot, were cruising 011 that coast, and form
ed a final! squadron under the Ruliian flag. One
of these vell'els is commanded by the famous pi
rate Andrew Sceculi, known by the prize which
he made some time since of a Dutch veflel : ano
ther is commanded by Stavili Caravias. They
lay they have the Eniprefs's orders to disarm,
but as they have not been paid, the sea mud in
demnify them. Such neighbors begin to cause
uneafiuefs.
PARIS, November 24
The difcuffioii and amendment of the decree
relative to the refratftory priests, (till occupies
the augutt aflembly of tiiis nation.—Every arti
«le, every letter is cavilled at—but the article
which hits caused the greatelt riot and tumult in
the senate, is that which suppresses even the
traces of the ancient denomination of the cler
gy. Mankind are naturally attached to their
old prejudices—and you will divelt a pried of
the title of citizen with more ease than you will
persuade him he is not a member of the clergy.
The bishop of Lyons, in opposing this extra
ordinary meal'ure, delivered one of the most elo
quent orations 1 ever heard—llo pedantry—llo
tricks of prieltcraft. The language was that of
a philol'opher—a man—and a good citizen — bold,
nervous, and full of found argument. —" He de
clared, that if such an ediift was palled, it would,
on the one part, inspire in the people an indif
fe ence for religion, which in the annals of the
world had been ever changing. On the other,
it would aid the powerful effort of Theism, to ef
tablilh itl'elf upon the shattered ruins of the gos
pel. Religion he revered. Theology was an
ariitocratic work, framed out of the religion of
the golpel, which is more democratic than the
conltitution. Realon, as it became more enlight
ened, separated by its beams the brilliancy of
religion from the midll of theology, whose era
die 1 firtt find in the hands of Contrantine." This
speech applauded with enthusiasm, was ordered
the honors of itnpreflion, and the article was ad
journed, fine die.
The remainder of the decree Was read over,
and concluded yesterday with the ofual tumult,
not unlike Homer's fubli me image of the Greeks,
rulhmg to council ; or the Trojans' (hout when
they gave battle, which was keener than the
screams of a million of cranes before an approach
ing storm.
Six millions more of aflignats are to be burnt'
this week, which will make the whole number
already destroyed, amount to 336 millions.
M. La Fayette has been eleifted commander of
the fourth legion of national guards.
LONDON, February 4. I
This day his Majesty came to the House of
Peers, and being seated on the Throne with the
ufnal fplemnity, Sir F. Molyneaux, gentleman
ulher of the Black Rod, was sent with a mellagc
from his Majesty to the House of Commons, conw
manding their attendance in the House of Peers.
The Commons being come thither accordingly,
his Majesty was pleased to make the following
raoft: gracious speech :
l y Lords and Ccntletuen,
THJI many proofs which yon have given of
your affectionate attachment to my pei foil and
family, leave .e no duubt of your participating
in 'he fa isfai'tion which 1 del ive in the happy
event of the marriage which has been celebraied
be, ween 11.y son the Duke of York, and the el
dest daughter of my good brother and ally the
King of Fruffia : and lam perfuad^d 1 may ex
pect your chearful concurrence in enabling me
to make a suitable proviiion for their establish
ment
Sin'e I Ia ft met you in parliament, adefiniiive
tieatv has been couth ded, under my mediation
' ni ■ * r °t " i y allies the King of Profit a and (he
tates General ot ilie Uniied Provinces, bet ween
-lie Emperor and he Ottoman Porte, on prjnci
pies which appear the „ fl calculated to prevent
iuture disputes between th.fV powers.
Our intervention h.is alfobcen employed, with
a view to promote a pacification between the
-mprefs of Kuffia and the Porte ; and conditions
have been agreed on between us and the former
° thoie powers, Which we undertook to recom
'"end to the Porte, as ;he re-efta'blilhniciu of
, MS*. PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 7 OHM n N „0, No. 6 9 , PHa^T^T
Saturday, March 24, 1792.
peace on such terms appeared to be, under the
exilting circumstances, a desirable event for the
general interelts of Europe. lam in expeftati
on of fpee'dily receiving the account of the con
clusion of the definitive treaty of peace, prelimi
naries having lorne time since been agreed upon
between thole powers.
I have directed copies of the definitive treaty,
between the Emperor and the Porte, to be laid
before you, as weU as such papers as areneeefl'a
ry to (hew the terms of peace, which have been
under difculiion during the negotiation with the
Court of Perei'lbtirgh-
I regret that I ai» not yet enabled to inform
you of the termination of the war in India ;
but the success which has lately attended the dif
tingnifhed bravery and exertions of the officers
and troops under the able condutfl of Lord Corn
wallis, and the recent advices from that quarter,
afford reasonable ground to hope that the war may
be speedily brought to an honorable conclusion.
The friendly afTurances which 1 receive from
foreign powers, and the general state of affairs
in Europe, appear to promise to my subjects the
continuance of their present tranquility. Un
der these circumstances I am induced to think
that some immediate reduction may fafely be
made in our naval and military elta'blifhments ;
and my regards for the interests of iny fubjeds
renders me at all times desirous of availing iny
felf of any faYorable opportunity to diminish the
public expences.
Gentlemen of the House »j Commons,
It will, I am persuaded, give you great fatis
faCtion to learn, that the extraordinary expelle
es incurred in the course of last year, have in a
great measure been already defrayed by rhe
grants of the felfion. The state of our resources,
will, I trust, be found more than lufficient to pro
vide for the remaining part of those expenses, as
well as for the current service of the year, the
estimates for which I have direrted to be laid be
fore you.
1 entertain the pleasing hope, that the reduc
tions which may be found practicable in the
eitablifhmenrs, and the continued encreafe of the
reveniie, will enable you, after making due pro
vision for the l'everal branches of the public ser
vice, to enter upon upon a system of gradually
relieving my fubjetfts from some part of the ex
iting taxes, at the fame time giving additional
efficacy to the plan for the redut'fion of the nati
onal debt, on the success of which our future eaf;
and security eflei.tially depend.
With a view to this important obje<2, let me
also recommend it to you to turn your attention
to the consideration of such measures as the date
of the funds and of public credit may render
practicable and expedient towards a reduction
in the rate of interett of aoy of the annuities
which are now redeemable.
My Lords and Gentlemen,
The continued aud progreflive improvement
in the interna] situation of the country, will, I
am confident, animate you in the pursuit of" eve
ry measure which may be conducive to the pub
lic interest.
It muil at the fame time operate as the rtrong
eft encouragement to a spirit of ufeful iiuluftiy
among ail ilafles of my fubje«fts, and above all,
muii confirm and encieafe their steady and zea
lous attachment to that conllitution, which «e
have found by long experience, to unite the in
estimable blelfings of liberty and order, and to
which, under the favor of providence, all our
other advantages are principally to be ascribed.
The firrt object of the Minister's plan of finance
will, it is reported, be the annihilation of tlit
32 millions of 4 per cent, flock, which is to b
convened inro three per cents in this manner :
tiie IV'inifter will borrow the amount in three pei
cent, consols, which, at their present price, yield
only 3 i-4!h per cent.—to this will be given ic
per cent, in money, amounting to 3,200 cool
which the bank has agreed to lend on Exchequc
bills at 3 pjgtcent. This single operation wili
produce an annual saving to the nation o:
220,0001. interest.
Poland, which but a (hort time since, present
ed so pacific an aj-pearance, seems at present as
if some clouds were gatheringin her hemisphere.
Two or three of her nobles delighted more with
the power of arijiocracy, than the franchifes late
ly granted to the people, have seceded and prf>-
tested againlt the new conditution ; and if they
377
HUso
[Whole No. 505.]
can meet with support in any neighboring pow
eis, ai e doubtlef* ready to throw every thinw ii -
lo confufion. Of those from whom they might
have looked for aid, iVudia and Viei.na'have al
ready leltified their consent in the propoled fUc
ceilor to the monarchy, and the enlargement of
the privileges of the people.
The treaty of mutual guarantee and defenfive
alliance lately concluded between the Kin pre is
ot Ru.lia and the King of Sweden, tor the pro
tection of their European dominions, is continue
for eight years.
His Majesty s speech gives a more favorable
account ot the (late of the country, than has
been done for several years part. A fylletn of
gradually relieving the people from fume pare
of the exilting taxes, is no less novel, than ic
will be agreeable to the public in general.
Last week in the National AfTembly, \I. Ifnard
made use of the following exprefiion : The trai
tors of every rank lhall fall by your hands ; the
generous nation pardoned once, it will pardon
no more ; so King and Ministers take warning !"
Ihe I urkifh Ambaftador to Vienna, being
complimented by the Clergy, returned an ar.fwei"
very lingular, and not much to be expected from
the mouth of a Mahometan : " 1 couimen.l my
lelf," said Ratie, "to your prayers. We all
have the lame God, and only pray to hiin in dif
ferent languages."
EDINByRGH, January 25.
BANK OF SCOTLAND.
Monday, there was a very refpeftable and nu
merous meeting of the Proprietors of the Hank
of Scotland, who unanitnuufly agieed to apply
to Parliament for leave to bring in a bill to allow
the Proprietors to augment their capiial Itock
from three hundred thousand to fix hundred
thousand pounds Sterling.
i he Bank of Scotland was conflituted, by ai'l
of Parliament, before the Union (anno. 1695)
and is the firft and only Bank in Scotland etta
blifhed by authoriiy of Parliament. It has been
ot great utility, by its branches, in promoting
trade, manufactures, and agriculture, in differ
ent pans of the country. When the augmenta
tion takes place, the Bank will be enabled to ex
tend its credit still farther, so as to meet the de
mands which the great iucreafe of trade, manu
factures, and agriculture, requires, and thus be
come more extensively ufeful.
DUBLIN, January 27.
IRISH HOCSfc OF COMMONS, Jan. 25.
The committee of supply reported, that thay
had come to a resolution " that a supply be
granted to his majesty."
ROMAN CATHOLICS
Sir Hercules Langrilhe rose to introduce his
" bill for removing certain reftridtions that af
fetft the Roman Catholics."—The sum of all the
privileges they had obtained, was :
The full enjoyment of property,
The free exercise of religion,
And the guardianfbip of their children.
But their good conduct deserved further fa
vor—and to what they already enjoyed, he pro
posed to add :
A power to educate their children at home, by
taking away the oaths which prevented their re
ceiving acedemic degrees.
To allow them the practice and the profeffion
of the law.
To allow them to intermarry with protestants ;
and
To remove their present inability of taking
apprentices
Kor these purposes he moved for leave to bring
in a bill.
Right Hon. Mr. Hobart seconded the motion.
some debate, the queflion was pfit and
leave unanimously given to bring in the bill.
Mr. o'Hara, then presented a petition, pray
ing to allow Roman Catholics to be admitted in
;otl;e army—into places in the revenue, and the
:atv —and into places of trust and profit.
The petition was nniverfally reprobated, anj
was at length withdrawn by Mr. O'Hara.
During Ihe debate, a Uranger was observed
•among the members. TheSpeakerordered him
Co l>e taken into coftody ; but he made his ef-
cape through a back paflage before the Serjeant
c(>u!d teach him. It afterwards appeared chat
the It ranger was Mr. Burke, son of the Right
Hon. Fdmund iinrke, and agent for the Romaa
Catholics in England and Ireland.CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY,- February 16.
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
On the Rsprefentation Bill.
MR. VINING's proposition under confedera
tion—the fir ft article of which is, that New-
Hampshire shall be entitled to J Representatives —
this being read by the Chairman.
Mr. Livermore rose in support of the general
of the proposition—which is to appor
tion the representatives agreeable to the aggre
gate number of the people of the United States—
he urged in brief, the arguments which had be
fore been adduced on the importance of making
the representation as equal as poflible, and con
eluded with faying, he hoped that the number
proposed for New-Hamplhire (five) would be a
greed to.
Mr. Baldwin said, that if New-Ham pfliire should
have five members, Georgia, according to its pre
sent number, which is about one half of that of
New-Hampfliire, would be entitled tothree—but
thi* is not proposed ; nor do the members from
that ftalfe expecft it (honld be.
Mr. Kittera observed, that apportioning repre
sentatives to the state of Virginia, 011 the princi
ple contended for by the gentleman from New-
Hampfbire, would give Virginia 24 members.
Mi". Niles supported the proposition.— He urg
ed that the fractions would be dimitiiibed on the
whole by it—and tho' perfe<ft equality is not at
tainable, he could not conceive on what gentle
men founded their opposition to that plan which
came the nearefttothis equality—and asthe con-
Hitution fully warrants oil a liberal, tho' ftritftly
just conftrurtion, the apportionment now contem
plated, he hoped it would be agreed to.
Mr. Madifen repeated the substance of what he
had before offered in objetftion to this proposition.
Fractions will exist, said he, on every poflible
plan—this is to be a permanent law—and in its
operation will probably increase those fractions.
The conftilution refers to the refpec r tSve numbers
of the states, and not to any aggregate number.
The proposition break* down the barriers between
the state and general governments, and involves
a consolidation.
Mr. Livermore replied to Mr. Kittera.—Heob
ferved that if Virginia was represented agreeable
to the proposition contemplated for New-Hamp
ihire, that is four members, Virginia would be
entitled to only feventeen —this would appear on
calculation.
Mr. Williamfon contended that, by the consti
tution, whaieveV ratio was adopted, it is to be ap
plied as a divisor to the number of persons in each
state refptßively. This idea of an aggregate num
ber, looks like a confolidatlon of the government;
not only so, but the supplementary member pro
posed for those dates who had not inhabitants to
vote for such supplementary member, would not
be elecfted agreeable to the conftitiitiou.
Mr. Seney opposed the proposition.—He ob
served that it was very extraordinary indeed that
those persons who, in the previous difcuflion,
■were opposed to the ratio of 30,000, on account
of giving so Urge a representation, should now
advocate this proposition, which, in fart.entreafes
the whole number. He hoped that it would be
rejected.
Mr. Vining said a few words to exculpate the
friends of the proposition from the charge of in
eonfiftency.
Mr. Venable stated various particulars tofhew
that the plan of transferring the fractions from
one (late to another, comparing them with the
general ratio, would produce greater inequality
than the plan contended for by thofc whooppofe
the present motion.
Mr. Livermore juftified himfelf from tliecharge
of inconfiflency—he was always in favor of an
equal representation—with this he began, and
■with this he (hould end — and he was: not folicit
otis which way the vote determined the matter,
provided the principle of 5 equality was adhered
to—and therefore he should not regret N. Ham p
fhire being reftridted to 4inembers, provided Vir
ginia had only 17 ; which is the highest number
{he will be entitled to, apportioning them agree
able to four for New-Hamp(hire. He observed
that the friends of the proposition might be out
voted by numbers—he wiflied, if i: could be done
that they might be outreafoned as well as out
numbered.
Mr. Lawrance said, having advocated in a for
jner discussion rhe iat id of 30,000, he hoped he
ihctild not be charged with inconsistency if lie
gave his a (lent to the present proposition—as he
had explicitly declared that he advocated that
number, as giving the largest representation—
and this propoficioH not only preserved that idea,
but enhanced the number, and on more equal
principles, he then entered into an examina
tion of the clause in the constitution respecting
taxes and representatives, which it is expi'Msly
declared shall be according to numbers. He re
probated the idea of members considering thetn
felvesas representatives merely of particular parts
ot the Union. The members of this house, Cud
he, are the representatives of America. The
dates, as states, are represented in the Senate.
A membe- of this house from Georgia, is a repre
sentative of the state of New-York, as much as
if he came from the latter rtate. Conceiving the
idea of the meaning of the constitution which he
had given to be just, he fliould vote for the pro
position.
Mr. Findley said he (hould vote against the pro
position— he did not like the principle of it, if it
had any—he rather thought it was destitute of
all principle, for it content plates no ratio at all—.
it is rather an arbitrary apportionment of the
representation.
Adverting to the article refpedling taxation,
he observed that the proposition does not accord
with the idea of the gentlemen who advocate it,
for flill there will be fractions left—and, said he,
are not these fratfions to be taxed ?
In reply to Mr. Lawrance's remarks refpeifting
local representation, he observed that the gentle
man's idea proved too much ; for if the idea of
representing local intereds is dedroyed, the es
sence of representation is done away altogether,
and all responsibility is loft.
Mr. Ames.—The Conditution fays, tliat " Re
" prefentatives and diredt taxes shall be appor
" tioned among the several dates, which may be
" included within this union, according to their
" refpeiftive numbers." &c. &c.
" The number of reprefeinatives (hall not ex
" ceed one for every thirty thonfand, but each
" (late shall have at lead one representative."
Dedu(slions from the above.
id. You may not exceed one to 30,00 c
2d. You may have as many as one to 30,000 of
the whole number of the Union.
3d. Supposing the amendment ratified, you must
haveiooineinbers,if oneto 30,000wi1l give them
These principles were not disputed [ill lately.
But it is now pretended that the ratio may be ap
plied to each ltate, and the number of represent
atives no more than the multiples of 30,000 in
each state- Some even go so far as to fay that it
muji be so applied, and that Congress may n*t
have as many members as one to 30,000 of the
whole Union.
This conftrudtion leeins to be violent
1 ft. The word reprefentaiives, firft used, can
only mean the whole number of representatives
—for they are to be apportioned amoug the se
veral stares. The word is used in the fame sense
afterwards, " The number of representatives
fhal 1 no exceed one to 30,000," again meaning
the whole nnmberofreprefentatives. ThewWf
number of representatives shall not exceed one
to. 30,000 of the whole people. To avoid thia ob
vious meaning, they fay it (hould read, " (hall
not exceed one to 30,000 in each /late." These
words are supplied wholly without authority.
2d. The clause merely restrains the number
of representatives, so as not to exceed one to
30,000. The members in Congress might have
been increased to any number, had not this re
ftritftion existed. It is a reftritfiive, and not an
explanatory clause. It curtails, but cannot be
supposed to change the natural import of the
preceding power. It is against the fair rules of
conftrutftion so to change it.
3d. The sense is perfect without the words one to
30,000 in each Jlate. ExprefTum facit ceflare tacitu.
4 r •>• The conftru(stion makes tautology. The
fir 11 clause having directed the manner of appor
tioning representatives among the several Hates
according to their refpetfive numbers, might
have been wholly omitted, one to 30,000 in each
jlate being a final apportionment.
ith. Words mult not be fupplicd by con/fruffion
repugnant to words expreded. The refultof an
apportionment according to numbers as firft di
rected by the constitution, differs in terms from
a ratio of one to 30,000 in. each slate. It differs
in its operation no less. The members in the
next house will be 113 —Apportion them accord
ing to numbers among the (everal states, Virgi
nia would have 19 —19 being to 113, as 630,000
the numbers of Virginia, to 3,619,000 the whole
people of the United States. But by the con-
Itruction which supplies the words'in each (late,
(he will have 21 members.
6ih. ] he words one to 30,000, are merely re
ft 1 ktive ot the number in Congrefi from the
whole people, and do not change the sense of
the fiiil clause, for taxes and representatives are
to be apportioned according ro numbers. The
conftroiSion cannot be extended to tjw;es with
any goou sense. Yet as taxes and representatives
are to be apportioned the conftruiftion
378
applying to the one, (hould apply to the otVr.
Yet the ad vocates of this conftrutfion fay, that
taxes shall be imposed according to numbers, and
not the multiples of 30,000 in eac(j Hate. Tak
ing it for proved that the sense of tire firft clause
is not changed, but its operation limitted by the
clause shall not exceed one to 30,000. It remains
to fee what is the sense of the firlt clause (land
ing alone. " Reprefentaiives (hall be apporti
oned among the several dates according to their
refpedtive numbers." The rule of three will
(hew the the number of members any state is en
titled to—Thus, as the whole number 3,619,000
is to the number of the next house 113 —so isthe.
number of persons in a state, f?y Virginia, which
are 630,000, to her quota of members. The re
fultis 19 members. The bill pursuing another
rule, obtafned as we have seen by a forced cou
ftrutlion, gives that state 21 members.
7th. The amendment to the constitution re
futes the sense of the conftrufHon. The words
arc " there (hall be one for every 30,000 till the
number (hall amount to 100." Plainly the whole
number of the nation is intended. The whole
number is to be formed by one for every 30,000.
The words contended for are therefore exclud
ed, and no conftrudiion will avail in this place
to add them.
Bth. The ratio of one to 30,000 in each state
is inconsistent with this amendment. For ac
cording to that, 3,000,000 of persons mull have
100 members in Congress. Had the numbers by
the census fallen (hor: of a surplus bey ond 3 mil
lions fuflficient to cover the fra<flions orloft num
bers, this amendment to the constitution could
not be carried into execution, according to the
principles of the bill. For the amendment re
quiring 100 members, the numbers being more
than 3,000,000, it would appear that roo mem
bers could not be obtained by applying the ratio
of 30,000 to the numbers in each state, instead of
taking the entire number of the Union. Heie
then would be a conftitntional obligation to have
100 members in Congress, and an abfoluteimpof
fibilitv of having them according to the princi.
pies of this bill.
loth. The number of representatives is limit
ed not to exceed one for 30,«00. Purfnethe let
ter of the constitution and avoid all conftru'ftiot),
t e number of representatives will be 120. A
dopt the conftrtiiflion that you are to have no
more than one to 30,000 will give you, and you
bring down (he number to 113.
But this process, erroneous as it is, only fixes
the number—it does not apportion them. 1 hat
should be done according to numbers, and Vir
ginia would not be found entitled to 21 of 113-
According to the principle of the bill ; if it may
be called a principle, it is defective. The let
ter and true intention of the constitution will be
violated by a forced conftru<ftion, which gives
forrve states more and others less than their due
(hire of the representatives.
(t« BE CONTINCtB.)
WEDNESDAY, March 21.
The petition of the merchants of Rhode-lflancl,
was referred to a committee of the whole oil the
(late of the Union.
The report of the Attorney-General, on the
petition of Andrew Jackson, was referred loafe
left committee.
A nieflage was received from the Senate, in
forming the House that they had pa fled a bill for
compensating the Doorkeepers of both Houses
for extra services, with amendments, to which
they requefl the concurrence of the House.
The nieffage received yesterday from the Pre
fidenr, refpediing a Brigadier-Genernl, was ie
ferred to a select committee to report by bill.
Order of the Day.
The House proceeded in the difcufllon or > ie
Georgia election— Mr. Giles' morion for declar
ing General Jackson duly elected, &c. was tur
ther debated, and finally decided—
Y E A S.
Mefirs. A (he, Baldwin, Bi own, Clark, Fmdley,
Gerry, Giles, Gregg, Griffin, Grove,
Jacobs, Lee, Macon, Madison, Moore, Ni f '>
Wage, Parker, Schoonmaker, Seney, I.
Smith, Sterret, Sturges, Sumpter, Treadweli,
Veuable, Willis— 29.
NAYS.
Me firs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Bounino ,
Bourne, S. Bourne, Fitzfinions, Gilman, Goo u »
Gordon, Hartley, Hillhoufe. Huger, Key, '5/
Kitchell, Lawrance, Learned, Liverinore,
leuberg, Sedgwick, W. Smith, Steele, _>) ** '
Thatcher, Tucker, Wadfworth, Ward, _ _ '
29 —It was then determined in "the negative
the Speaker's carting vote.
The following resolution was then P a^' et * '
" Resolved, that the feat ot Anthony n
as a member of. this house, is, and t ie ar
hereby declared to be vacant.- -Or ei e '~Jjn2
the Speaker do transmit a copy o! the P y
resolution, and of this order, to tne execu .
the State of Georgia, 10 the end lhat 11 ie a
ecutive may issue writs of elwSion to 11
vacancy.,"THC3.SDAY, Marc- —.
TNe V.U front: ycitcr the
o? the Door.verpcrs oi bo:a n-u ts of Coe-Txfi, rrad i -.»« i.f.l
lißie.
I® co avail tee the w>o'e or. the Rrpori of :hr Secretary ot the
xi P. r c Debt.—Mr. Seoc? the Cr.air.
IVscTtroit br ?r«d. Mr. F'.ttSwocs tcm in his p-jce n:ne
re lotions, w - rovkJed for ;at f\tri! ob«c6s spec n« in ik
rrpon :—<kfcie<ci en* being read by the C;rrk.
T e coar. iiec rofcr, icpcttec prtgrei, ami km to
sis atjia.
Oo n>o" on. h vis stdered (h t ir: copies of ihcf: r .'u; on;
w v - »:en - r the members.
Mr. Williamfareported a b:l! for afrerta tSe bounds of a
tr»cr o' -»n<J ourcbafrvl by jjvon Cteve Sy tames —* "l tw.ee, anu
reined to a committee of the vdnie, to-morrow.
Reoorts oo the orsMion 01 TurofT, one o; the Judges of
the Weftero Territory— itu ** on p«iuon or Henry Laurens,
vtfc rnd *rw3 laid oo the tat>!e.
A !etrer f.om ihc Socre:; \ ot Sate was c.-tmnunicated by the
S r .Ver. T:-rr:o? to a report puriujntlo older <jf the House, on
t'lf is r ;o3 of the commerce ot the L uiteJ Starrs, v. iih foreign na
-> . , - : -1* o : e H t'ue proanciv o: nis i'ufpendmg
that report ct! the next fcflion. Lai Jon trie lab.e.
In committee of the who.% on >l>e report of tne ftleft commit,
te-*. on the memorial of the D.redois of the Ohio Company of
A&ociates.
Tr.r recvirt was read—which conclude* with a reiolutton to this
cStft:
That a committee be aooointed to report a bill tor confirming
t» the d jcfioiso! -iij compiov t the lines pwehafed by tnem oi
the tur t Mi of Treaftrv. and 'to telioqutih, on the part of the
TJtvie-c 5: dtr'iar. :: .oft laid company, o- the ba
bncf r ~r from :-.em of 500,000 collars.
T- < re:"o!ui! in. after a lon-; c;D3ie, wasdifa»reed to.
M•. f • i i.s then proposed fuiioiyit^«uiianir—the fitß of
which «a$ agreed to, viz.
Tha: a T tie be granted to the Ohio Company for the Lands al
ready pa d tor.
Ti- econd was, to £rani to the Company a right of pie-emp
tion : ' /ears, to the residue ot their purchale, at the price
aiwh ; ch Congress may dispose of their vacant Lands.
Tr ; beins; opposed, the coro.nutee rose without deciding, and
Tepo ted f c:re(j.
W . If-ae" Smith,otthe committee on er.«>l!ed bills, reported
1. <d - Y enrolled—One. 4t An ast tor the relict ot ceriato
viccv ' r r.~ans, and other pcr-ons—the o r her, 4t An art for the
xel*;f " fur dry oerlons under particular circumjtkances, barred by
the -is heretofore eilablifhcd. The Speaker figntd the
above b 5.
V >n, of the committee of conference on the diiagreein^;
▼ote ; j and relpeding the Repicfentatton Bill,
reor'* : ' -committees ot the two Houses had met and con
fer»:: —" . i -ot agree.
A mefi\ ; > received fr#m the Senate by Mr. Secretary o«is,
jr.: >' e that the Senate iniift oa their amcndmenisto
the Re :: ;*:! 1 BiH.
FRIDAY, MA*ch
The bil! For fixing the compeofauons of the door-keepers of th?
House and S*na?c, was read ihe fecund time, and referred to a
committee of the whole-House on Monday next.
The report on the pe.ition of George Turner, one of the judges
of ir.tr Western Territory, was Tead ihe second time, and retencd
to the cot. .ee brought iu the repoit, to briog in a bill
pnrfuani thereto.
On motion of Mr* V "iq, ihc report of rhe Secretary the
Treafuryo'; the oe;:tion > . TruftefS of Wilmiugton College,
state o?De was t ken i;i o confidcrafon, and referred 10 a
felett : »nrsm":«tee m examine and report to the House.
A me(Ta —':ct» the Senate, by M .Secretary O'. n, informed the
House tfc:: kv na% ep,iT a a bill for altei :ng the times ot holding
cerrain c r;u:t court, and for other puipoles ; in which ihey re
qutfttbeem rrenceof the H was read the firft lime.
Thtf petition of Auguit-.s C'nr«ll»an, George Eiholm, was pre
sented ar ~ ad—Refer.ed tothe Secre.ary of\Va«.
Another »r- sage ;rom the Senate, in termed the House that
they have i.ied a .dai ad "jpp'.emental to lac ast ma
king♦unherr aor. Tiare proviuon for toe defeuce ot the
frontiers of the Unrted States.
"A nyrffagr was received frou the President of the United States
bylfn Secretary Lear, informing the House thai ihe President
iMI tfcudvf- approved and signed a bil! providing for the ciaims
«f widows and orphan* barred by heretofore eOabtith
*d j«lioTega|ate the claims to invalid pensions.
. The from the Senate received yesterday, m which they
imtona the they in&ft on iheir amendments to the Re
prefcaoeioo bi'll, was taken into coofideratioo.
. Mr.Vtmm* moved that the House flioold their dif
sgrceoeat to the amendments ol the Senate— debate
caliiedaa a point of order, whether a subsequent qaeftion should
betake*, in cale the motion t.o foccde should be earned Mthe
afirmaiive—The Speaker gave it as- his opinion, that such ' wbfe
mttmt umioa jnight be made—Au appeal was made from this
4«bfio«ofihe chair, to the House determined, that
a qoeftioo would not be in order. !
After farther debate, the qacfitonoa receding was determined
ia the affirmative—ayes 31, noes 29-
Here aqoeftion wm ftaited, whether the vote just palled waaap ;
a general from the di&gKement of the Houle to all iw
amendments o£ the Senate.
The Speaker laid he confidcred the vote as referring to all the
amendments. An appeal be ng m2de to the Houfc, it was de
termined thai all the amendments were involved in the vote to
recede.
Ia committee of hole on the hill to ascertain the bouuds
•f a trz£t of land purchased by John Cieve Symmcs. Mr. Scney
in the Chair.
The committee reported the bill without amendments, and it
was ordered to be engrofled for a third leading.
The bill received froth the Senate was read the firft and second
time, and ordered to be committed to a committee ot the whole
Houfc to-morrow.
The bill authorizes the President to appoint such number of
Brig-.dier-Generals as the public service may require.
In committee of the whole on the bill lofiniih the Light-House
on Bald-Ht d. at the mouth of Cape Fear River.
The comibitiee reported the bill without amendments—and it
was ordered to be engrossed for a third reading to-morrow.
The report of a feleft committee on the petition of sundry mer
chants trading to India—which report proposes an extenlion of
the t ' allowed by law lor the p vment f the duties on teas
i"■ io»n India, was taken into consideration—agreed to ;
an<i c bill ordered to be brought in purfuaiu thereto.
I'i ' 'jir rrnttee of the wh' 1 « n the report of the Secretary of
th<. Tr< -fury on the petition ot ih executors to the eltaie of Ed
ward Carnt
I i, % irporl h'-ing icad, Mr. Goodhue offered a rcfolution pur
fuarjr rh-re o-~ihe luufimce of wh ch was, to empower the pro
per ofneer# of the trcafury to fci generally, accounts circum
stanced as he above. The committee rose without deciding—
ano ihr Houfc adjourned 'ill to-morrow.
CHARLESTON, March 6.
SOUTH-CAROLINA TONTINE BANK.
Thole c inclined to become tubferibers to the Soutk-Caro-
I'na Tontine Bank, will please to meet at William'/* coffee house
on TJiurfday evening, at seven o'clock, for the purpose of appoint
ing a committee tc icyori a plan for ihe inlliiution.
SECOND CONGRESS o
AT THE FIRST SISUON
and he* dat the cit vol Po ■ .ad?*. . i«i the State «>f Peno
f\'.\an;a, Monday the tw nr, -:o.:rth ct one
teven hundred *»id nine;\-onr.
AN ACT declaring the con sent of Congress to a
certain A<ft of the State of Maryland, and to
continue for a longer time, an A<ft declaring
the assent of Congress to certain Adls of the
States of Maryland, Georgia and Rhode-lfland
and Providence Plantations, so far as the fame
respects the States of Georgia and Rhode-lfland
and Providence Plantations.
Section : it enacted bv the Senate ?nd House of Repre-
X) fentatives of the United Statts of America, in
Congress afTemoled, That the consent of Congress be, and is here
by granted and declared to the operation of an ast of the General
Assembly of Maryland, made and palled at a feflion begun and
held at the citv ot Annapolis, on the firft Monday in November
I-'ft, intituled, " An ast empowering the wardens of the oort of
Baltimore to levy and collect the dutv therein mentioned."
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the ast intituled " An
ast declar the aiTent of Concrefs to certain acts of the States of
Maryland, Georgia and Rhodt-IfUud and Providence Planta
tions,'' ibaii be continued, and ,is hereby declared to be in full
torce, so far as the lame refpefts the Statesot Georgia and Rhode-
Wand and Providence Plantations.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That this ast ftiall be and
continue in force for the term of three years, and from thence to
the end of the next feflion of Congress, and no longer.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
ff the Hovfc of ReprefenUtives.
JOHN ADAMS, Viu-Prejident 0/the United Safes,
and Prefideht of the Senate.
APPROVED, MARCH THE NINETEENTH, 179?.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of tkc United States.
fOR THE GAZt TTE OF THE US if ED STATES.
THE WORLD.
WHEN Dick, was iiv'd unknown—
But now, a man of fortune grown,
With all the Nab%bsin the tcwu )
He's hand and glove—the palling smile—
And compliments as smooth as oil—
And cards—in truth it raak's one laugh—
Dick scarce has time to read one ha:#.
No puppies now contrast their noses.
Nor fleer Dick with their sage supposes.
Nor call his wit and part? m question,
Nor stab his fame by falfe suggestion :
For granting Dick " a man of dollars,*
Birth, wit and sense, and learning follows.
And what is worse than all the reft,
Dick don't appear to smoke the jest;
Reciptocatcs the palling gnn,
And true mechanic fall of chin ;
Foigets that fortune is a jilt,
Who vet may give his coach a ttlt;
• For (hould the beldame, in a paflion,
Reduce Dtck to his former station,
Place him again in ftatu<juo.
And is there one will know him r—No.
Those who have eat his bread and cheese,
His hams, his venison, fowls and geese—
As rats from falling houses fly,
Will leave Dick in a ditch to die.
Philadelphia, March 24.
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
There is a natural propensity in mankind to extravagance—every
obje& of pursuit, whether of pleasure or profit, however mode,
rarely it may engage our attention atfirft, is ultimately over-rated ;
the consequence is difappoi.umentand vexation.
It is difficult to reltrain an ardent disposition ; when
extraordinary luccefs appears to crown the enterprizes of daring
adventurers—and hence we may observe, thai while but few have
wisdom and prudence fufficient to withftaod the treacherous but
fafcinating faults of fortune—the greater part of the world are
either drawn into her deftru&tve vortex of fpeculatton, or fuffer
at least a temporary chagrin from the apparent luccefs of her har
dy votaries.— Wha an nftru&ive fchoo] is that of experience ! —
Happy are those who profit by the fuffeiings of others—and re
p-effing the risings of envy, enjoy in peace and gratitude the solid
and substantial fruits of patient and pcrfevering mduftry.
" In the sweat of thy brow (halt th#u eat bread."—What a per
petual itruggle is maintained to obviate this ancient declaration !
What a numerous generation of mendicants has it given life to!
and how many millions, the produce of haid industry, arc year Iy
extorted from the hand of diligence by the cunning and unprin
cipled disciples of idlenels ! The charity that is bellowed on un
woithy obje&s, if properly applied, would alleviate, and a I molt
annihilate the miseries of the truly untoriunate sons and daughters
of affliction. The mod competent charity is that which guarci>
the avenues of dillrefs. Inttitutions, therefore, which place the
human mind in a capacity to acquire ufeful knowledge, are justly
to be conhdered as the result of the moll sublime policy and be
nevolence. On these principles wc may determine, chat a people
are enlightened in proportion to the provision which they make
for the u.ftfnfclion ot lhe whole body of the people, in such
branches of education as arc essential Co constitute a free, an inde
pendent and happy community.
A letter [torn the American Academy oj Aits and Sciences.
Cambridge, sth Match 1792
S 1 R,
YOUR late communications were presented to the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences, and I am dir. £ted to return you
the thanks of the Academy for the fame. With regard to the
truth of your theory, and the probability ot determining longitude
from the variation oi the needle, the Academy can at prefem ex-
379
ri r TIJJITF.D STATES
P-'e.s no f n imeot : Sat I "r»ve to ifcrt veil tU
> *!C v»s pit". :v» v. *• • ■ *ao: >:» lo ;bcfcS v f r*. i;..; '
* ii»orotCi v •ar vnry of.:;;; at ur.j;: L»ia£ ra«^.a:c<;;-
Convincfd of the inportanc; of ifcf»uin - \kiih accuracy uie
rt»; - cvar:- »i> ;n :re»>« pr so" ir.- £L>i>c t it
wiihti vou iucctf} in > "ir pr ->olcd vo. sod >i umv CvMu
attis jo ovci\ h i. > A tv> huurum
\Vui> fciitimems ofdur r I am, Sir,
Y.">ur orcCi'ut \'iva«;.
tLIPHALt V Pt AR^ON*.
John Cbukcuuan, ET.J
Yfftcrday Indian Warno >, u-'v arr ved in th.s c;;v,
an audience of the Prciident ot the U
Died, in this cit\. on Monday last, Mr. Peter Jaquettf,
one of ihe principal Sachems of the One., a Xat:on c : i -
This was educated in Fraoce; lie itiui M
de la Fayette to that country on his u.um from I'ie I' .-.ted
States.
On WVdnefdav last his funeral was attended from Oe '»s" Hotel
to the Pieibvtenan burying grouud in Mulberry-itioct, w heie r. .s
remains w ere intened.
The corpse was preceded by detachments of the Ins *ntrv
of the city, with arms reversed—drums muffled—inuiic playing a
solemn di»«e. The corpse was followed by fix ot tne Cniefs as
mourners, fuceeeded by all the Waruors now sn this city—the
reverend Clergy of all denominations*—the Secretary ot War, and
the Gentlemen ot the War Department—Officets ot the Federal
Armv, and of the Militia—-and a number of Ciiura.
The concourfc affrrabled on ibis occasion, is supposed feo have
amounted to more than 10,000 perfoD*.
On Thurfdav arrived the (hip Three Brothers, Capt. John
Cathcart, 141 days from the Isle of France, with a ca; ot fu
gar>. Capt Cathcart made the vovage m one year exiCt»\ .
Ship President Walhington, Cape. Sailey, arrived at ..cr I lie of
France, from New-York, ad Auguil, and failed the nee for
India the 28th—Ship Aitrea, Captain Chebo, from Salt m, arri
ved thare s'h Sept. and tailed f;om thence for India the 27th.
Left there Capt. Smith.arrived ?th Oft »^er,
PRICE CUR REN'
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents atfe ?*•£•
3 pr. Cents i«f
Defered 6 pr. Cents - nj(
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett), and other Certificates 18/6 Sij dt.
Indents i%J 6o do.
Half (hares .Bank Stock—6o per cent. ptemium.
WASHINGTON, in tie Ttrritorj of Columbia.
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Gorty
mi (Goners of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, shall produce to them the mo;t ap
proved PLAN, f adort d by them, for a PRESIDENT'S HOUSi",
to be ere&ed in this Ci v. The site of the building, it the auift
will attend to it, will of course influence the alp & and outline of
his plan ; and t's destination will point out to him the number,
fire, and distribution of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of it nny be detached and
ere&ed for the present, with the appearance qf a complete whole,
and be of admitting the additional pans, in future, it they
thall be wanting. Drawings will be expe&ed of the ground plat*,
elevations of each front,and fe&tons through the building, in such
dire&ions as may be necessary to explain the internal ft-uclure;
aud an eft i mate of the cubic feet of brick-work com poling the
whole mass of the walls.
March 14, 1792.
WASHINGTON, in tKe Territory of Columbi a.
A Premium
OF a LOT in this City, to be designated by impartial judges,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or a MEDALoI that
value, at the option of the party ; will be given by the Commsf
fioners of the Federal Buildings, to the perion who, before the
fifteenth day of July, 1792, (ball produce to them the moil ap
proved PLAN, it adopted by them, tor a C API TOL, to be c reft era
in this City ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
(hall adopt The building to be of bi ick, and to coutain the tol
owing apartments, to wit:
. n r n ) fufficient to ac-
A ( onference Room ( ,
V Room for the Representatives commoi dU j3 oc
)
) pcrfons each. \ to be ot
i Lobby or Antichnmber to the latter j full eleva-
A Senate Room of 1200 fquarc feet aiea J tion.
An Antichamber or Lobby to the last J
12 Rooms ot 600 fqmre feet area each, for Committee Rooms and
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Drawings will be expc&ed of the ground plats, elevations of
each fiwnr, and fe&ions though the building in such dire&ious
as may beneceffaiy to explain the internal ltiu£ture; andaneili
mate of the cubic feet of buck-work composing the whole mass
of the walls.
March 14, 1792.
Bank of the United States.
March 21, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby are, au
thou fed to compleat their Shares by payment at any time
before the periods required by the law of incorporation.
Resolved, That each Share so complcated, ffiall be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits of the BanK, from and after the firft
day of the month next fuccceding the day of compleatiug such
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's interest upon the Pub
lic Debt transferred to compleat any Share as afercfaid, as ihall
have accrued before the'fiift day of the month next fucceedmgthc
completion of such Share, ihall be received by the Bank, and paid
o the persona who (hall have transferred the fame.
By order of the Picfident and Dire&ors,
(eptiftj) JOHN KKAN, Cajhicr.
The Universal Tontine
IS opened this pay at the office of MefTrs. HAZARD and
ADDOMS, at the corner of Third and Chcfnut Streets, lor the
purpofc ot t. rming a Society, by a Subscription on Lives, 10 Con
nue aflociated lor the peiiod of 21 >ears; its principal obje£t is
toefirtt a Union of public and private interetts, and the Tt-imsof
Admiflion arc easy, being calculated particularly to favor the less
opulent citizens.
The Articles of AfTociation, in which the principles of the Ton
tine are detailed, may be had of Mr. Francis Bai j. ly, Printer,
in Market-Street.
N. B. Subfcnptions will be received from 10 to t pVlock*
daily, nil the whole number is fabferibed, according to the ar«
ticks. •
Matcfi >9, ijgt.
States.
Boston, March 10.
PUBLIC SECURITIES.
106} pr.cett
60 do.
6«J do.
THE COMMISSIONERS.
theft roeun*
THE COMMISSIONERS.
{») ,Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
Sr at e-St k e et, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind of the Stocks of tMe United Staffs, on
Commiflion, by Pr.vate Contra#, and Pablic
Those gentlemen who may be pleaied 10 favor them with cheir
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and difpatcb.
Bojlon, March, 1792. ([ aw3m)
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION,
On Wednesday the nth dav of April next, * the House o
John Thompson, in the City ot Perth-Amboy, or at privat'
Sale before,
A FARM, containing about four hundred acres of upland ant
jT\. fait meadow, lying -within three quarters of a mile of fai<
city; is a grfat part bounded on the found, and on a navigably
creek, on which is a good mill leat. There are on the faim ffve
ral eligible situations for building, with delightful profpe&s, ex
cellent brooks and springs ; a lirge apple: orchard, and foijie frui
trees of other kind*, and a fufticient quantity of fire-wood. Hi
foil is good for grass and moll kmdsof grain, "and may at fmal
expence, from the conveniency of the fait meadow, and other ad
vantages of manure, be made equal to any farm in New-Jersey.—
It will be» fold all together, or in two or three divisions, as lhal
appear bell to suit those inclined to purchase.
For further particulars, previous to or at the time of sale, appl
to the fubferibers. JOHN HALSTIvD. and
f 4 t) MATT"-" —
FOR SALE,
BLOOM SBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls ol Delaware, in,the vicinity
of Trenton, in New-Jer fey, occupied for many years past by
the fubferiber; containing upwards of 2GO acres of land, bcfiaes
a tract of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main ftrert leading from
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearlv
equal in quantity; the eaftwardly part being arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by ihe said street on the east, and by the nver on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined effect of fiiu
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be oDe of the moll
beautiful and desirable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
liandfome, well-finifbed brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extensive and pleating view of
the rivr r, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and ihe neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new ftonr
eoaeh-houfe and stables, fufficient to contain fix carriages and ten
hoi fes, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining these is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a (tone cow-house, upwards of 100 feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved (tails, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, &c. Adjoining the court-yard ol the minfion-houfe, is a gar
den ot about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
state of culture, and abounding with a r,ich collection ot the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and several targe asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient diftaoce from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, well
built, stone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large dheefc-room,
spring-house, garden, &c. a complete flone ftnoke-houfe, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other nc
cefTary out-building. The ground is properly divided into Jmall
fields, all well watered, highly impioved, and thieflv undt r the
mod approved grass. This square has produced annually, for se
veral years past, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay, befidcs
supporting through the summer season twenty to thirty horned
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards ol good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper seasons,
with great pis nty of all kinds of fi(h usually found in frefh water
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl ; both of which
may afford a pleasing amusement to the fportfmin, as well as a
convenient addition to the elegance and vai ietv of his table. The
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and divided
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar posts,
and rails of chcfnut and white cedar. The purchaC r may havt
the improved square fcparately, or the whole together, as may
best suit him. There is an incxhauftible quantity of good build
ing stone on the river (bore. The puichafe money, if well secured,
and the interest punAually paid, will not be demanded for man\
years.
Any peifondeflrous of viewing the piemifcs, may be gratifi. rl
oh application to Samuil W. Stockton, Esq. of Tienion,
•r Mr. Inalluan, who at present occupiu the laim-houlc and
part of the lino —and may know the price on application to the
iubferiber, a» No. 2J3, South Second-ftrcet, opposite to the New-
Matket, in Philadelphia. JOHN COX.
Pkilatttphta, March 7, t?9«. {cptf)
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Township of Benfelem, in the County of Bucks,
Esquire, decealed, pursuant to the Directions
of his last Will and Teftanient.
ON' Til fday the 27th of March next will be expos d to Sale,
by way df Public Vendue, on the premises- One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farin, containing about two
hundred and tiinety.nine acres, situate on the rivei Delaware; 011
which is ertfled a handsome two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good barn.flables, hiy-houfe,
and other convenient outhouf s. A good orchard of the best kind'
of grafted iruit, now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and ingood order; and a (bad and herring fifhery btfore the door
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a fufficicncy of meal
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the pod-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; containing
about.two hundred and feverr acres, the greatefl part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, stables,
and other outhouses, with a young thriving orchard of the bell
grafted fruit, and a shad and herring fiflierv? It has long been a
well accußomed tavern; and the ferry belonging to it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the belt profpefts on the
liver, and are remarkably healthy.
One other small Firm, containing about sixty-three acres situ
ate in the township of Southampton, in the sounty aforefaid' • on
which are crested two log-hou(es. There is a small orchard,'and
a great futficicncy of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lor, conrmnmg four acres, situate on the great pofl-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log dwelling.house, and work-Oiop ad
joining, with a well ot excellent water at the door: now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Alio, at the fame time and clace, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houlhold-Furniture, Farming Utensils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of Tale will be, one-third of the purchase
money to be paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments with interest. *
IOHN' SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBTT, f Executor,
(eptSAMUEL BENEZET, )
JATTHIAS HALSTED.
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BV SUBSCRIPTION,
In the Commonwealth of MjJfachuJetts,
A
SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE #/the ARTILLERY
mthc UNITED STATES AMERICA ;•
». OK,
THE yOUNO ARTILLERISTS POCKET COMPANION.
IN THMIfi PARTS.
P*rf 1./"CONTAINING the duty and pra&ice of light field
artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and practice of heavy artillery :
to which will be ad<lrd, an cxtrati of a Treatile on the origin and
principle of Courts-Martial, wrote by an experienced Officer in
the 'inp, and who did duty as Judge-Advocate in America.
Part 3. Laboratory duty,; contamtng a great variety of directions
for coinpofition, and the method of making artifi ial fire-works,
and the formation of ammunition for the different kinds of ord
nance.
By WILLIAM STEVENS, £//.
An Officer in the American Artillery through the whole of the
late revolution, and finer in the Militia,
conditions
This woik to be printed on good paper with a hand Tome type,
neatly hound and lettered, in three pocket volumes, containing
upwards of one thou fa nd pages; illustrated with a great variety
oi explanatory plates, executed bv able artists.
The price to fubfenbers, One Dollar each volume—to noti-fub
f. ribers, One French Crou)i each volume : and those who lubfcribe
for fix setts, shall have a feventhgratis.
This work shall be published as soon as five hundred copies are
fubferibtd for.
Suofcriplinn papers will be lodged -with the principal Printers
ami Bookfellrrs in the United States of America.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER k AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcription,onC»««r/^o»,
at the following rares
OV the fpecieamount of all files at aaftion, one eighth pei
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchase, one-haj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving imereft at the Loan-Office, $ne pereent. on the
amount of the intereil.
For making transfers at ditto,feventy-Jivc cents per transfer
Such persons as may incline to favor the fubferiber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with pun(luality %
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and extensive dealings
in the public (locks, together with a well eftabltfned correspon
dence throughout the Unued States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar beuefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
October 15, 1791
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, JcCo.
HAVE just flow opened their Lead-War ehousi, two doors
south of Walnut-street Wharl, adjoining their New Factory—
where they have now made-, and ready for sale, a genrral aflort
mrnt of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mir.rs in Virginia. As they have «in ployed a
number of expert need Enghfh workmen, they watrani it to be
rqual in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to, manufa£ture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. A. 1 orders addrefTed to either of the
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully received, and execnted on the
(honed notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious. sober, 1 aborning Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, pood wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Meflrs* Moses Aust i n & Co.
it thtir Fa&ory in Ri hmond,or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. • tf
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £ 750 for the purpose of repairing the
Protedant Eoifcop«il Ctiurch in the city of New-Brunfwick,
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature of the Slate of New-Jersey,
palled November 1791.
SC H E
1
t
a
b
10
Priae of
3°
90
1675
iB«4 Prices.
35'.»0 Blanks.
5331 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is t6oQa Dolls.
f3" This Lottery is composed of Tickets, not two Blank
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than anv Lotteiy \t 1
otter d to the public—and it being ol such evident utility, that 11
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the moil
liberal support.
The drawing will commence on tlie second Monday in April,
or looner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of \ew.
Brunl'wick, under the infpe&ion ot CoK John Bayard, Prcfideni
of said city ; James Pjiker, Esq. Mayor of the cttv a/ Ambov ;
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor ot the Manufa&ut
tnjt Society of New- Jerfcy.
Tickets to be had of the following peifons, who are dulv ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given security for the
faithful performance of their dny.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be jublifhed, and the
prizes paid immediately alter the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER fcEENON, (Managers
ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
B. I hose prires which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confidercd as a generous
donation to the Church.
£3 Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per rent, per month for their monrv. To accoromodatc
-II thole who may be difpoled to purchase Tickets, letter, dirt-fl
ed to P. Kitsos, Manager, and Post-Master, at New-Brunf-
Wir.k, and enroling g iod bills will be attended to—and Tickets
lorwarded on .r ript of furh letters.
Ntw- Rrurfuicl, 'January ?.o, 17c)?
Public Securities,
Boucht md So ld, on COMMISSION by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefuut-Stieet, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
380
M E.
Dollua i$ com
2000
ioo«
too*
50®
200
100
5*
20
4
1000
1000
ioo»
100#
15®©
1800
6700
16000
Dismal Swamp-Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters
River in Virginia, to those of Pafquotank in NortU>,>i; B ,
or for conflufting the Work, will be received omil the'nimli dav
of A-pril next, by Robert Andrews, of WrUvamfborg; Thomii
Newton, jus. and Daniel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia • by
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Berrjamid Jones; of Can/
den County, in North-Carolina. The length oftlie Canal wiHfe
ah«ut sixteen miics ; the country through which it will past, i a
fwampv, free from flones, and covered with hesvy wond The
Canal is to be thirty-two feet in width, and eight feet at Icaft i n
depth, below the furface of the earth, and capable of being navi.
gated in dry feafaps, by veflels drawiftg three Irct water.
Good fceuritv will be required of contraftorj; and persons
makinK application to be employed as manager*, must product
certificates (from charaftersot refpeftability) of their qualifications
for > business of this kind.
WJt, Janvsry' it, t*Q?
THF- Colleflors «f Militi# Fines in the Citv and liberties of
Philadelphia,»nd thediftrifisof Moyamenfingaud Paffyuok,
are heieby required to collrfl and pav into the County Treafurvj
all arrearages of fines, and to fettle and deposit their books ini
vouchers in my Office, at No. 61, Walnut-street, on or beforetha
filft day of April next. Wherefore Notice it giyen, Th»t im.
mediately from the said firft day of April, all C6lleQors %J)n
(hall fail in complying with this requifmon, will b< procetiM
against according to law.
Philid. Feb. 25, *.792.
To be SOLD peremptory, at Pup i. i c Ve nd u E,on IVednefday
the nth day of April next,
'T'HE SEAT of ihe late Doiftor Levis John/!tn,
dreeafed, in Perth-Amboy, containing TWO HUNDRED
ACRES of LAND.
Thu place it bounded southerly for near a mile OA theriv*t
Raman, where it empties into tho bay about *8 miles from-Sandy.
Hook, and affords two mod agreeable fituationj for GerttltmeiH'
Seats. There nre mrw on it, two brick houses, with g»rdrni, and
a good collcffion of fruit trees of the best kinds. The land «»ery
fertile, and a great partnf it very good meadow; ami from its fitli.
ation on the i iver, has the advantage of fi(h of different kinds, ia
th<.-irfeafons, particularly ol oyftcrs tnd chicken clams, which miy
he picked in great plenty on the flats before the doors, Ji its
delightlul, healthy fituation,capable of genteeland tasty improve
ment!; and as Perth-Ambov is one of the brft fea-porrs in the
United States, and within t8 miles of the sea, the prot'peft ot in
increasing in v-lue from that circumllance, is by n« means inCoik
ftriei able.
There wiP also be fold, other Lots, within the bounds of the
city, and about Five Hundred Acres of Land on the opposite fide
of the river Raritan—part of which is improved by a farm—on
which there is a framed dwelling-house and barn, with an orchard
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about one hundred and
fifty acres ; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, well
wooded and timbered, and verv convenient for supplying New-
York and other markets with fire-wood, timber for (hip build
ing. and other uses, the transportation by water being easy and
fafe, The conditions will be made known at the day of sale,
and the Tcquifite conveyances made by
JAMES PARKER and)— A , . ~. r .
BOWES REED, Trudeeitoihe said Eflilf.
Likewise to be SOLD, at the Jame tine and place,
ELEVtN ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
perty of the Proprietors of Eifl New-Jersey, wheie n the pro
piietary house lately flood. The elegant situation of this spot is
hardly to be equalled ; it affords a grand profpe6l of
3 v, and of the Bay formed by the waters of Raritan and Hud
son's rivers, where they disembogue into the sea to the East—and
a mod delightfnl one the ferpentme course of the Raritan river,
for fCveral milrs, through a lich tract of meadow to the Weft.
The great quantity of (lone neatly dressed, and brick, the remains
of the houfc lately binned, will be nearly fuPficient for a new
>u'lding; and a large itone cistern, and well of excellent water,
w'th a very convenient ftabie and c»ath-houfc, will greatly lefTcn
the cxpence of putting the place in O'dei for the rcfidence of *
Gentleman.—There are few situations f<> eligible, particularly in
•he summer season—when the cool fra brt<tes, and the elevated
situations, render them places of pleasing r< treat, from the confine
ment and sultry air of the southern states and ncighbouringcities.
Perth- Amboy, Feb. 15, 1792. ( f F^ w )
NOTICE is hereby givtn to the Cirduors of John Crai«h,
John Bilderrack, Samuel Barber, Aquha Hctc'b
ens. William Richardson, Gabrul Westlong and
Hugh Gunning, insolvent debtors, confined in the gaol of the
County of Salem, in the State of Nt w-J< rfey, that the Judges df
the inferior Court of Common Pleas, for the said County on ap
plication to them made, have appointed th sixth day of April
next for the said C»editor* to appear b fore any two or more of
lie said Judge*, at the to\* not Salem, to shew cause, if anv
have, why an of the said debtors tflate, refpe&ivciV,
ould not be made, and ihey be from confinement,
i-itfuant to an of Aflembly, palled 24'h of Novcmbei last, for
ihe relief of insolvent ticbtors then confined. (jv
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
Which may be seen every day, until five o'clock, ?. M.
Among them are the following :
folic. TTOMER, XeDophon, Plato. Piytarch, Eufebius, Soie
rl men, Thcodorct, Virg'l, Horace, Livy, 1 acitu.-, r
culus, Plinv, Concordantia Lai. Con< ordantia Gr. T hefauruj '
ccroiiis. B blia Junii and Tretnellii, B'ble dr Martin,\\ r.lls *Ma|
Scapuli—Phavoriin—Martinu —HofFmani Lexica, Volfii Etymc
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Britannicac. See.
Quirto. Pindar, Cyropasdin, Bemley's Horace, Terence ?n
Pnardrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ctceron.s op. oin. Ohr, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram. CJuve
tii Geographic, Juftmian Code, &c.
Octavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes, LongiMi ,
Theophraftus, Heftod, Poets minores Gr. Ifocfates, Pn;»aris, v '
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tihuilus, rw -
us, Lucan, Maitial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Aufnuios, B«<cha i
Salluft, Curtius, Floms, Jnftin. Val. Maximum A. Gelliui, H •
Augutl. Scriptores, Enflijh and French 7 ravjlations o
Ci-ffics, a great variety of Grt.k »n<t I a"" Gramma", «c. •
IST C«t.lo,u« may be had of lkff... R.ce A Co.
Market-ftrect, or of J® ( >
OAnhcrjt.
[cp 3m]
(£*• ///." 7 OCR "Ale; the 7 'hRD SESSION of *e SEN fit
f{ the UNITED STA'i ES, 'may be hud of the Editor hercej.
By order o£tt)j Prcfidrm Dirrftnrj,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Cle*.
(■•.p'W
Militia Fines.
THOMAS PROCTER, Lieut,
of the City and Liberties.
*A DVKRTISEMENT.
TO Bt SOLD.
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. f>, Pe a r-St re et,
BOOKS,