A SAIIVSAL tAI ,-A, I- L HUSHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 12, of Vol. IV.]
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the subscriber in February
last, a NEGRO LAD, named PHIL, about
20 years of age ; hail on when he went away, a
roun.i jacket, a paii homespun breeches, and a tow
ihirt; theiellow has a yellowish complexion, his
heighth about five feet fix or seven inches, very
square made ; ha? a mark along fide of his nose,
ana one of his insteps has been burnt, which caufej
the sinews to draw.
Whoever takes up said Negro, and fecurrs him
in any jail, so that I may get him again, (hall re
ceive the above reward, and have all reafonablc
ROBERT PEARCE,
charges paid
Head Safjafrat, June 16, 17Q'
BANK of the UNITED STATES,
July 2d, 1792.
NOTICE is herebv given, That there will be
paid at the Bank, after the 10th instant, to
the Stockholders, or their representatives duly au
thorized, the following sums, being the dividend
declared from the commencement of the i'nftitu
tion to the firft instant, viz.
For cach share complcaLed in the month of
Ivlarch, Twelve Dollars.
For eac' scare comoleated in the month of April
Ten Dollars, Sixty-[even Cents.
For cach (hare compleated in the month of May,
Nine Dollars, Thirty-three Cents.
For cach half-(hare, Eight Dollars.
Bv order of the President and Dire&ors,
(2 w.j JOHN KE AN, Cafhicr.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD (PRICE 10f.)
By HAZARD and ADDOMS,
At the corner of Third & Chefin. Streets,
„T H £
■'*"* HISfORY
O F
New-Hampshire,
Vol.' 111.
Containing a geographical description of the
State—with {ketches of i.s natural history, pro
ductions, improvements, and present ftatc ot io
«iety and manner*, laws and government.
By Jeremy Del knap, A.M.
(£3T This volume compleats the history, and is
pe_n!iarly intending.——Subscribers are dclired
to call for tYieir books.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Phi l adelphi a, July 7, 1792.
FOR the information of Merchants and ine Mas
ters or Commanders of vcffels, are published
the following extra&s from the Law for eftabliih
ing Pott-Offices and Pott-Roads wkhia the United
States.
lii fcftion io, it is enafled that there (hall be
chargrd " for every letter or packet brought into
the United States, or carried from one port there
in to another by sea, in any private (hip or vessel,
four cents, if delivered at the placc where the fame
lhall arrive ; and if dire&ed to be delivered at any
other place, with the addition of the like pottage,
•as other letters are made fubje& to the payment
of by this act."
Infe£tioni2, t; That no fhlp or vessel, arriving
at any port within the United States, where a poft
office is established, shall be permit;ed to report,
make entry or break bulk, till the mailer or com
mander (ball have delivered to the poilmafter, all
letters directed to any person or persons within
the United States, which, under his care or within
his power, (hall be brought in such ship or vessel,
other than such as are dire&ed to the owner ot
consignee : but when a vessel (hall be bound to a
nother port, than that, at which (he may enter, the
letters belonging to, or to be delivered at the (aid |
port of delivery, (hall not be delivered to the pod-j
matter at the port ot entry. And it shall be the
duty of the colleflor or other officer ot the port,
empowered to receive entries ot lhips or vcffels,
to require from every mailer or commander ot
luch (hip or vessel, anoatli or affirmation, purport
ing that he has delivered all such letters, except as
a(orefaid.!' * ,
In feftion 13, " That the postmaster to whom
such letters may be delivered, (hall pay to the
matter, commander, or other person delivering
the fame, except the commanders ot foreign pack
ets, two cents for every such letter or packet; and
(hall obtain from the person delivering the fame,
a certficate fpecifying the number of letters and
packets, with the name of the (hip or vessel,
and the place trom whence (he latl failed ; which
together with a receipt for the money,
shall be with his quarterly accounts, transmitted
to the Postmaster-General, who shall credit the
amount thereof to the postmaster torwarding the
fame."
For general injormation, the 14th fc&icn is pub
lifbed, " And be it lurther tnbtted, That if any
person, other than the Poflmafter-General, or his
deputies, or perfonsby them employed, (hall take
up, reccive, order, dispatch, convey, carry or de
liver any letter or letters, packet or packets, other
than newfpajjers, for hire or reward, or shall be
concerned in letting up any foot ©r hoifc pott,
waggon or other carnage, by or in which any let
ter or packet (hall be carried for hire, on any esta
blished poll-road, or any packet, or other vetTe!
or boat, or any conveyance whatever, whereby the
revenue of the general pott-office may be injured,
every per (on, so offrnding, (hall forfeit, for every
such offence, the sum of two huudred dollars.
Provided, That it shall and may be lawful for eve
rv person lo fend lettcis or packets by special rncf
icnger.
RUN AWAY Irom the subscriber, living in
Kent County, and State of Ma vland, on
Sunday the 2-nh May last, a NEGRO M A N,
named Hark; about 40 years of age, about five
feet nine inches high, has a fear over one of h?s
.eye-brows, and when talking, hangs his head on
one fide, and looks up—had on and took with
him the following cloaths, viz. a fearnought coat,
a black and white kersey coat, cut round, a white
kersey jacket and breeches, two pair of yarn stock
tngs, the one pair lately footed, and the other not.
two oznaburgh shirts. each pieced on one fide,
two pair of tow-linen trowfers, one pair patched
with new iow-l«rti) down the-forexirti. and an
old felt hat.
Whoever lakes up (aid Negro, if out of this
State,and secures him in gaol, fh 11 receive FOUR
-1 EEN DOLLARS reward—and if taken within
this State, and secured as alorefaid, {hall receive
EIGHT DOLLARS reward ; and if brought
home, reasonable expences will be paid bv
PEREGRINE LETHRBURY.
Chejler-Tcwv, June 4,1791. (ep 8w )
[*eoi m)
FRQU THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE eftke UNIO
Reflections on the mavufaflurcs of the United St<
as they afteß the mercantile interejl.
SOME of the oenefits to the coading trade
other parts of the domellic Commerce res
ingfrom manufactures, '* already been l
"nated in treating of the manufa£lure of iiqu
3efides these, bark and hides tor the tanno
rnn, lead ; lice!, coppcr, hemp, flax, wool, cot 1
ilk, wood, timber, furs, tobacco, flax feed
Tarn for the ers <>! those art teles,
irovifions, fuel, and other obiefts of tl
onfumption and use, together with the got
nade by them, are, ami conitantly will be p
hafed, tranfpoited from place to place, and ft
reating a great part of the emplovmentfor no,(
'"■ns of vefTeb, exerciimg a large port
• f cosnmescial ind»llry and ikiil, and afford in
etuin of profi s on a very conirlrrable sum
nercantilc capital employed in thebufinefs. 1
• ranch of our trade is of peculiar importan
>ecaufe we have 110 transmarine colonies, ;
vhile the redundancy of (hipping owned by n
at ions will leave us but little chance of materi;
ncreafingour vessels in the foreign trades, the
enfion we may give in the course of ten year:
ur home Wlll.prohaKly Wuaru
ave brought coiton, sugar and saltpetre to mar,
;:£fure from India, lulphur from the Adriat
emp, flax and iron from Ruflia, copper fr<
vveden, fur»,indigoand mahogany from the Gu'
>f M .xico, and coal i.ir our workmen from i
land : and we cannot doubt, thercfoie, that
ball transport thofecommodities and others, fr<
uch of the States as produce them, to those wh
ball create or have already cftabliihed a manuf
uring demand.
Foreign commcrce being limited by the co
• ined value of our impoits and exports any m<
antile capital, which accumulates beyond the si
equifite for those purposes, would want emplo
nent of a commercial uatuie, if the merchant wt
lot able to have tecourfe to manufactures. Tl
s not a m« re speculation in pofnble even's ; b
onfiderable trading houses and otheis of refpedl
>'e (landing, have actually entered into such pu.
utts. Glais-houfes, rope-walks, powder mill,
mn wotks, fUel works, Hitting auj rolling nulls
[rift mills, naileries, sugar refineries, brewerie
nd distilleries, the manufactory of fail cloth, au<
>f woolen, cotton and linnen goods, exhibit a
his moment numerous proofs of the fa6l.
It is too well known to need moie than a ban
illegation of the truth, that our outward boun<
r effels are always completely laden, and thai
10 not on a medium return half full. It will
herefore, increase the profits of the owners o
hips, if the outward cargo can be rendered more
aluable by manufacturing the goods to be export
d. This may be exemplified in regard to whea
md the simple manufacture of fuperfine flour. A
elfel which will,carry ten thousand bufhelsof ih<
ormer, at the price of a dollar per bushel, will b<
aden foi ten thousand doliars ; but the quantity
>f fupeifine flou) (3,000 barrels) which the Unit
effel could iceeive, will amount, at a proportion,
ite price, to the sum of fifteen thousand dollars
The fame quantity of tonnage, filled with bottler,
sorter, distilled fpirirs, fte; 1, cordage, (larch, peat
flies, carriages,cabinct wares, plate, candles, soap,
infeed oil, paper, hats, ihoes, &c, would ri!e tn
much greater value; and of conbquence, the
iwners of the vessels mull be able to purchafc
nore goods lor the rclu-n by which the
c (Tel being fuller, would make a greater sum in
reight back. This circ'umftance is rendered of
he more consequence by realcn of our diflance
rom the greater part of the coufumers of our lur
>l us produee ; and it is obvious that ships will
hen be moil profitable, when the measurement <>1
11 our imports shall be equal to the measurement
ft all our exports. Vtffclft which depart and re
urn fully laden, cannot fail to enrich their owners
No arguments will be to convince the
idicious and reflecting mind, that the employ
ncnt of large c pitals and of many merchants and
raders, is mod certain and cafv, whvie there is
he gieatcfl number and variety of objeCts to buy
nd fell. As our commercial towns, therefore-.
iave offered ina»ufaClurc.d commodities to those
vhocome thither, they have increased in butinefs.
'otafh, pearl 3fh, country rum, domestic bquors,
oaf fu *ar, See. have already contribute d to hvi II
heir exports, by attracting foreign demand, or
ncreafing the number of profitable objetls of fhi p
nent. THete will naturally multiply under the
lands of our vnauufaCtuteis, and inllcad of maik-
Wednesday, Tutv ii ? 1792.
45
nothing ;>i«t Uinilicr, tobacco, Hock,
• uw materials were formerly to'be
»bi;«i.-ed, ou f-aporrs -w ,ii be converted into ma
!. ' , i which all thofc articles will be pur
h;tTev»iilr, id the various commodities manu
atti>; .! fr< i them. For these goods in whatever
hap !i;- afers will never be wanting:—cheap
«!' !• ] as certainly attracts buyers, as water
(ids t s V- . Nor is this mere sanguine hope or
wpenit 1 rgeftion ; for it is an obvious truth,
H i : i' lteil manufacturing nations in the old
irorld, he greatest traders to foreign pans,
101 - en roost temarkable for main ; >"rs,
amount of eighty millions o< .«t .
n the commodities of oilier -
prov ,0
mere..
per ar
A Jru / reflections on American manufacture.
-1 !>t: t v- . cal concord and attachments, which
grov out o: mutual benefits are the mod rational
r tii:.;r»ent. In this view, the feme •• vch
v.- i t given to the nationrl union, by th inter
chei. soi raw materials, provisions, fu and
manu'i.&urcs among the levfcral States, isoh nef
•iinae: ;lue. If European nations have u vo
"cf amity and mutual forbcarauer >n
ions, it cannot be doubled t n.-.c f_.
wit) evince equal wifdorn an l < trtue.'
a' tf f our union, from polity or tempo
for manufactured supplies, have
ll'r exhibit the greatefi liberality to
oi igners, with whom they have been
I recent \ at »b idtll variance*, It mull appeal vc
• v .able, t the capacity at once to accomo-
v'ia«< ,-m a. ~ engage their regard, should be
_ t frur distant strangers, to their own
c*>j:ri , • I'- ieir own kindred. If the mer
chant :.d rr ufa&uTers of the opulent nation
I with 1 on) t United States so long waged war,
i irfil nc< dhy e hope of our consumption, cried
| alou > for pea and. on the moment of its return,
prelTc.d vvith the courtesies of commerce to our
j fho; <s, the e> ing fnendfnipof the feyeral pans
ofjhe ».:■-! ion .* caeh other, mud be strengthened
by 1. .Ur iu nces, as they (hall be progiefltvely
m {cffaiM.
Hie anirn prifecution and liberal cncou
! r«r.< n i ni nf nufa&ures, is at this moment a
rr , politic; y. The national legislature has
incrtafed th oft on foreign 'merchandise, to
{ defray ?he r. es of the Indian war. The con
tiiftiiance oi : t part of the duties is to be no
Ion: r than ' jf the hostilities which occasion
thei to be It the interval should bedili
' in : emp»» lin the promotion of manufac -
'4i■ >* •; V > "•' 'r.-7*Tl: - V'.f rr '." 1
"id to pro;fx .he temporary injuries or trie In
luian war wi -e accompaniea and followed by
j great, solid u permanent benefits. Ihe militai v
expev.lc is re red less buidenfome, by the em
! ploytf»e.rtgi* to our own workmen. The (hoes,
!>oc' horfcit i's caps, haw, buckles, buttons, lad
cry, spears, le.® gunpowder, and other articles
i .or the nfe c t' e aruiy are made by American
• manufacture It is perceived, that war, which j
, oft Mp.icrrup: foreign commerce and generally
•v.fner- :h. otices of agricultural produ&tons
has in this, instance no eflects of
,t iiarun ;'b< t by judicious arrangements, may
ji ridert d i-iltrumental to the greatest fuppor.t
i-• 3 .ed intereft —the national manufacturers.
' he 'ock of the field mufl incvita-
L-iy :iiih The number of our citizens; but
there ■ ■ cry reason to believe, that those, who, in
the couri : 0 present war, may fall under the
banners country, will prove inferior in
number to those who will be drawn, by the in
fluence of the new duties, from foreign countries,
to the standard of American manufaftuies : and
although the moll ufeful arts are-no compenluiori
f. . the lives of our compatriots, the acquthtion of
a great number of new fcitizens will counterba
lan. ? the political evil rcfulting from such a loss,
so far as it m2y unhappily occur.
It is detrimental to the United States that the
manufactures they consume arc drawn from n -
tions whose citizens pay much greater contribu
tions to their government than our manufacturers,
and conlequently tliat we so far forth are subjeCt
to their taxes, imposts, and excises. In (iitai
Britain, for example, their national taxes are fc
ven times as large as ours, in proportion to the
number of people in the two countries ; and their
poor rates and church rates are each more than
double our whole national contributions. Tin j
monopolies of thofecountriesfajl heavily upon the
conlr.mers, among their citizens; and those, who
purchase their fabrics, bear a part ol th:s burden,
which lies on their inanufattui cs. The commer
cial charges paid by the Englilh Eaik-India com
pany abroad, amount to one million of dollars pei
annum ; the freight and charges in England arc
about two million and two thirds-more, exrlufivr •
ly of duties. The company's civil and military
charges would, in two years like the p fen , pay
all the cxpenlcs of our government, a.,d difeharge
our national debt. Tne reftrj&ipns on navigation
and trade in the Eui opcan nations also enhance the
price of raw materials and articles of confum pnon,
required by their manufactures, ali which falls ul
timately upon the people of the United States, so
far as their fabrics are confumtd here. These I
considerations (hould induce our moll (Irenuous
exertions, to dimini(h those indirect burdens, and
at the sains time they l-id out strong piomifesof
a fucce fslul iffuc to our effn <s ,
In taking a view of the affairs of the United
States, and comparing them with the fituat.on of
mod of the great commercial nations of Europe,
the mind is immediately impirli d with the pecu
liarity of their being without tianfmarine colonies.
Though speculative politic i ns have- entertained
doubts in to favdrable ciieefs Horn lu h
pofleffions, taking into view the cxpenlcs of their
improvement, defen c, and government, no ques
tion has been made but that the monopoly of their
red fr
COQtlAtil*
[Whole No. 534.3 *
trade greatly increases the commerce of the na
tions to which they are appurtenant. Of such h\i
advantage the United States do not enjoy the be
nefit ; and this circumliance, and
the pievailing difpoft'ion to restrict their com
merce, the fisheries, the coasting trade, and manu
fadures appear to merit extraordinary attention.
The confederation of manufa&urcs, upwi gene
ral principles, has been, for leveial years, before
the legifiatures as well of the Hates, as of the U
nion. The estimation of their importance to the
landed and national interests appears to have been
yearly heightened by difcudiou and enquiries into
fads. Household manufacture* have acquired
umverfal and decided approbation. To thofc
which are conduced by laboi-faving machinery
and other procefles, by hoifes and oxen, 2nd
which consequently do not require manual opera
tions, noobjeftion has been made. Such of them
as can be carried on by manufa&urers now among
us, by thole who may migrate heither, bv the
wives and thildren of our citizens, and by black
women, old men, and children, have not been con
fidercd as diminilhina the mass of agricultural in
dustry, but as manitcftly promoting it by i.ew and
extensive demands.
■ The piefent difcuflion of the fubjeft will be ter
minated l.y remarking, that although tltis great
fubdivilion of our political economy has been co
pioully and tre. ly treated in every mode, it has
not onlv prcfcrved its original importance in the
nupltc judgment, but has risen in the eftima'ion of
the people in every part of the union—a -fate that
rarely attends unimpoitant truths or dangerous
enors in an enlightened conn.ry.
(to be continued.)
EXTRACTS.
" ' S a orl "'i being ; he
J-*-'- takes a turn on the llage of
life, and difaj>pears : But he departs
with regret, and calls alojiging, lin
gering look behind him—yet go be
niult ; and to perpetuate his exilt
ence, has no alternative but in bis
children : These he is therefore to
consider as part's, and the only abid
ing parts, of liim<el£;~and in this
way he may be perpetuated to the
latest generation. If therefore he
VT I 111 V V ill i Uill I n i i - i m
a fuccetfive train of felicities for him
felf, he mull wish the fame for his
posterity, who are parts of Jiimfelf
in continuance. He ought therefore
to abandon and despise every vicious
habit, and apply his fortune and his
earnings to their comfortable main
tenance and mental improvement ;
nor ought felf-ii)iereft to be his only
motive ; 'tis a duty he owes to socie
ty to furni(h it with ureful members,
and hi 3 country with citizens and ibl
. diers."
" HOW frivolous appears thegau
dy equipage aird the splendid mansi
on, compared with the proud inte
grity of honor—and the dignity of
an independent mind.—Let it
occur to those who are entering on
the fair career of public life, that
though indud'ry and talents will not
always command success, yet a fpoit
lefs character will secure esteem—and
that a fortune is only honorably when
it has been earned by virtue."
[The following remarks on Air may not be un
seasonable at'this season of the year—■-fpeci
allv as many other disadvantages attending
confined, or which is the Tame, unwholesome
air, might be mentioned.]
" IT is now certainly known that
the breathing of a grown Jierfon vi
tiates a gallon of air every minute,
rendering it unfit for respiration. A
number of people, therefore, confin
ed in a finall close apartment, malt
soon fill it with putrid vapor.
" It is a facft, equally well ascer
tained, that noxious vapours arelight
er than pure air, and are therefore
perpetnally endeavoring to ascend.
" The exit of these vapors (hould.
be promoted by every poflible mean
in our power.
" Air, in facft, being the befl vehi
cle for carrying off putrid vapors, it
ought to have as free a passage thro'
all parts of a house as poflible.
" Frequent white-washings with
lime and water would contribute
greatly to purify the vitia'ed air;
and it is evident that cleanliness in
the floors, dress, and every other par
ticular, ought to be attended to as
much as circumstances may permit.THE CONSPIRACY OF .KINGS.
BY JOEL BARLOW, Esquire.
ETERNAL Truth, thy trump undaunted lend
Peopleand priests and courts and kings,attend;
While, borne on wefcern gales from that tar fhorc
Where Justice reigns, and tyrant# trefrd no more.
I'h' unvvonud voice, that no diiluafioti awes,
That fears riof'own, and fceks no blind applause.
Shall teil the blifstlv't Freedom sheds abroad,
The rights of nature and the gift of Goo.
Think not, ye knaves, whom meanness stiles the
Great,
.Drones' of the Church and harpies of the State,—
Ye, whole cufcil fires, foi blood and plundc r t<jwi d, j
Sultans or kings or ciars or emp'rors nam d,
Taucht the deluded world their claims to own,
A-nd raiie the Cr cited repti'ts to a throne,
Ye, H»ho pretend to your dark ho ft was given
The lamp of life, the rhyftic keys of heaven ;
Whose impious art* with. maj»ic fpclls began
When shades of ign'rance veil'd the race of man ;
Who changc,fiom age to age, the Uy deceit
As Science beams, and Virtue learns the cheat ;
Tyrants of double powers, the foul that blind,
To rob, to fcourgc, and bjuiutizc maukind, —
TJunk not I comc 10 croak with omen'd yell
The dsre damnations of your future, hel 1,
To bend m bigot or reform a knave,
xVy <»p"uing all the scent s beyond the gravv*.
I know your cruiled fouls : while orif defies
In sceptic scorn the vengeance of the fk'es,
The other boails—" 1 ken thee, Pnwrr divine,
*' But fear tree not ; ih' avenging bolt is mine."
No ! 'tis the present world that prompts the song,
The world we fee, the world that teels the wrong
The world of men, whole arguments ye know,
Of men, long curb'd to Icrvitnde and Wo,
Men, rous'd from floih, by indignation flung,
Their lliong hands loos'd, and found their fVa» ie
tongue;
"Whose vtiiie of fire, whose dr •Teen rung flee
Shall speak to fouls, and teach dull nerve to feel
Think not, (ah no ! tiie.wcak delusion shun,
Burke leads you wrong, the world is riot his owrij
Indulgs-oot once ihe thought, the vapory dicam,
The fool's repast, the mad.nan's thread-bai e theme,
That nations, riling in the light of truth,
Strong with new life and pure regenerate youth,
Will shrink from toils so splendidly begun,
Their bliss abandon and their glory (bun,
Betray the trull by Heav'n's own hand confign'd,
The great concentred ftake,the interell of mankind.
Yefpeakof Kings combin'djome league that draws
Europe's wtoole force, to save your fluking cause ;
Of fancy'd hosts by myriads that advance
Tocrufh iheuntry'd power ot new-born France.
Misguided men ! these idle tales despise ;
Let one bright ray of realon strike your eyes ;
Show me your kings, the sceptred horde parade —
See their pomp vanidi ! fee your villous fade !
Indignant Man resumes the fhaft he gave,
Disarms the tyrant, and unbinds the (Uve,
Difplaysthe unclad Ikelctons ot kings.
Spe&reQ of.power, and serpents without [lings.
And (hall mankind—lhallFrance.whofegiant might
Reut ihe dark veil, and dragg'd them forth to light,
Heed now their threats in dying angmfh toft ?
And She who ftU'd the monfier, fear thegholl ?
Bid young Alcidcs, in his gralp who takes,
And gripes with naked hand the twilling snakes.
And dread their Uiadows trembling on ihtr wall. ,
But grant to kings and courts their ancient play,
Recall their splendour and revive their (way ;
Can all your cant and all your cries persuade
One power to join you in your wild crusade ?
In vain ye (earth to earths remotest end ;
No court can aid you, and no king defend.
Not the mad knave who S sceptre stole,
Nor She, whose thunder (hakes the northei 11 pole ;
Nor Frederick's widow'd (word, that (corns to telj
On whose weak brow his crown reluflant (ell.
Not the tri-fceplred prince, of Austrian mould,
The ape of wildom and the (lave of gold,
There(a's (on, whownh a (ceble grace,
Just mimics all the vices of his race ;
For him no charm can foreign ftrife afford,
Too mean to'l'pcud his wealth, too wile to uufl his
(word.
Ptep o'er the Pyrenees—hut you'll.disdain
To break the dream lhat (ooths the Monk ofSpain
He counts his beads, and spends his holy zeal '
To rai(e.once more th' inquisitorial wheel,
Prepares the faggot and the flame renews,
To roast the French, as once the Moors and Jews ;
While able hand* the busy talk divide,
His Queen to dandle, and his State to guide.
Ye a fit great Pitt to join your defp'rate work,
See how his annual aid confounds the Tuik !
Like a war-elephant his bulk he (flows,
And treads down friends, when frifhten'd bv
his (oes.
Where then, (orfaken villains, will ye turn ?
Ol France the outcast and o( earth the (corn ;
What new-made charm can diflipaie your (ears ?
Can Buikes mad foam, or Calonne's houle o(
Peeis ?
Can Artois's (word, that erfl near Calpe's wall,
Where Crillon fought and Elliot was to tali,
Burn'd with the P.tc of fame, but har.nlcfs burn'd,
For fheath'd ihe sword remain'd, and in its fheaili
return'd ?
Oh' Burke, degenerate Have ! with grief and ftiame
The muse indignant mult repeat thy name.
Strange man, declare—since, at cieation's birth,
From crumbling Chaos sprang this heav'n & earth
Since wrecks and outcast relics dill remain,
Whirl'd ceafelef's round Confulion's dreary reign
Declare, from allthele fragments, whence vou stole
lhat genius wild, that monstrous itiaCroi foul •
Where (preads the widell waste of all extreme!,
darkness frowns, and heav'n's own splendour
beams ;
Truth, Enor, Falfeliood, Rhetoric's ragim* tide
And Pomp and Meannefi, Prejudice and-pfidc '
Strain to an endless clang thy voicc of tire, '
Thy thoughts bewilder and thy audience t're.
1-ik.c Phoebus' fori, we lee thee wing thy way
Snatch the loose reins, and mount the car ot day
To earth now plunging plough thy wafting course
The great Sublime of weakness and of force
But while the world's keen eye, with generous
glance,
Thy faults could pardon and thy worth enhance
Wfjcn foes were hufh'd, when Jiifiice dar'd com
mend,
And e'tn fond Freedom rlaim'd thee ai a friend
Why in a gulph of brfenefs fink forlorn ? '
And change pure praise for infamy and scorn ?
(To be ccncluici in cur next.)
CHARLESTON, (S.C.) June :6. t
Yesterday, at halt pad one
o'clock, John Fuller was ex;cu
ted according to' his sentence, for at
tempting to pass a forged note, know
ing the l'anie to be forged. J-i us
to his execution, he addrefl'eri t l wj
diencein a firm, manly toneo voice,
declaring that he was not a =ii, ti>
die—to hinf death had no terrors.—
He acknowledged that he had) ed a
\icious life—that it had be: ■ bis
greatell pleafui e to commit o • of
ihe in oft flagitious nature ; L. so
lemnly swore that he was not guilty
of the crime for which he was a::out
to fuffer—that no person ever iolri
him, as had been represented, that
the note was forged ; and he earnest
ly intreated the fpetftators to be care
ful how they gave teltimony in a
court of J iitlice. He then thre.*> him
lelf upon his knees, and prayed ak<ud
with great fervency and apparen de
votion ; in which he was a flit c<!
the Rev. Mr. Hamett.
When he was told that th
hour was come, he arose w :> t
uttrioft cotnpofure, and confide ;>)
faying that he wa6 going lo <: i
world of misery for a world 'o; y
and immortality (through' . eric
and inicrcelfion of Jesus C ift) e
was quickly launched into etc: iir\
" The chiefs of the Parisian
fays a .London paper, " have reft v v?d
to prefentH fwordtoM.de laFayjstte.
The handle of this, which is cuiioui
ly wrought in gold, exhibits thefead
ing events in his life ; his departure
for America s the tranfacftions of thn
sth and 6th of Oiftober, 17S0, n !
the return of the . n
der his protection. The blai:
posed of Heel found in thi
and tempered in England. he sol
lowing infeription is engra :d upon
it : " This blade will spa blood,
but will give force to the 1. - lc is
deflined to make the cotiftit ion res
pecSed."
Friday last, arrived here, ihip Las
rens, Marlton, London, 49 days fr«rn
the Downs ; schooner Fiffcer, Cole,
Madeira, 40 days.
On the 1 4th in it. in lat. 27 31 —long.
72, Capt. Cole spoke the brig John,
Cant, Hnwfll from this JJOrt Wjund
to Cape-Francois— out 8 days—all
well Capt. Cole brought with him
two Madeira grape vines, with grapes
growing on thein, for the purpole of
transplanting Here.
It was a very leading and avowed
opinion of Mirabeaii's, that, in form
ing the new constitution of France,
the nobility Ihoujd be annihilated,
and the clergy reformed: but that
various prerogatives, and an exten
sive share of power, ftould be given
t'> the crown. His last words were—
" If you make your King a cypher
in the beginning, he, or some one for
hnn, will make cyphers of you in the
end." " ,
BOSTON, June 30.
[A very obliging correfponde■ ; has
favored the Editor with the folic* nig
extract of a letter, dated
Havre, dpri a , ; 70?.
" Before you receive this you will
probably have heard of France hav
ing decided on war against Anftria.
Altho the maritime power of the lat
ter is much confined, yet as there may
be some privateers out ofOltend, and
others cruizing under the Austrian
nag ; we have, through our friends
suggested to the Minister the neces
sity or giving a convoy to the French
lhtps home trom America.
1 he plan propoled is, that the
convoy (hould fail from the Cbel'a
peak every 6 weeks, from the 15th
June to the 1 jth November, for Brelt
trom whence the (hips for the chan
nel will be sent 011 with one convoy
and those for the Bay and Mediterra
nean by another. We have every af
furanee that this plan will he adopt
ed ; and we are promised that it will
be speedily announced to you by the
trench Minister, or Confulin Ameri
ca.
LKG ISLATURE OF 'MASSACHUSETTS.
I lie feflion, it is fnppofed will clofc
this day— Of public bufinet's, the
pr !r C j^ al oll j ecS which has been dif
"Ce onr la,t > has bee » that of
uiltiictmg the Commonwealth Ma
ny reports, and many amendment of
reports have been made—l.aft even
ing the bafinefs was brought to a close, 1
by the concurrence of the House with i
46
the Senate, in one of the amended re
ports ; and a committee was raised
to report a Resolution conformable
thereto.
[By this report, theftate is divided
,ito four diftriifis. No. i, confiding
»f Suffolk, Efl'ex, and Middlesex, to
choose Four Reprefentaiiyes—No. 2,
consisting of Worcester, Hampfliire,
and Berkshire, to,choofe Four—No. 3,
cbnfiiling of Plymouth, Barnftable,
Bristol, Dukes-County, and Nantuck
et, to choose Two—No. 4, confiiting
of the Province of Maine, to chodfe
Three —making Thirteen.—To com
plete the number to 14, the threefi'rft
diftri<fts, at large, are to choose the
other Representative.] f
, July 2.
In the House of Representatives 011
Friday lalt, the committee on the
pay roll reported the fame,amounting
to the sum of Two thousand one hun
dred and fix pounds, twelve {hillings.
Same day, an engrofled bill in ad
dition to an a£t entitled an acft for in
corporating certain persons for the
purpose of building a bridge over
Charles river—was read, and palled
to be ena&ed.
Sfnt up for concurrence.
On Saturday the House concurred
in the amendment of the in
the Resolve providing for the choice
of electors for Prelident and Vice-
President.
The Hon. T. Skinner, Esq. brought
down a Resolve empowering the Go
vernor to provide an entertainment
in the Senate Chamber the 4th July.
In Senate, June 30, fenc down for
concurrence.
In the House, Read and non con
curred.
A committee (confiding of Meflrs.
Heath, Dawes, and Lyman, 011 the
j part of the Senate; and Mefl'. Robbius,
Euitis, Kinfly and Collins on the part
of the House) was chosen, to requelt
his excellency the governor, to ad
journ the court to the firlt Wednes
day in November next.
, The committee reported, that they
had waited upon his excellency the
governor, and delivered the meUage,
and he informed them that though it
would have given him greac pleasure
to comply with the rtq_uelt of the le
gillatui e, yet that the duty he owed to
his constituents and to the oath he
was uuder, forbid him to grant a re
cess to the court that evening ; when
the resolve for diltricting the com
monwealth, which was of the highest
importance to the llate, and which
had occupied so much time of the
giflature, had been before him only
twenty minutes—that he had not e
ven read it through—that his con
science and his duty forbad him to
give it his signature, till lie had had
an opportunity to consider the fubje<ft
with that deliberation which the im
portance of it required—that the mo
ment he had done that, he would fend
the secretary with the information,
and grant them a recess.
The House then adjourned to Mon
day ten o'clock.
PROVIDENCE, June 30.
The Hon. General Alleniblyof this
state, which met last week atNewport,
adjourned on Saturday without day.
Among a variety of other business,
the General Aflembly, in their late
fcffion, palled an act incorporating
three societies, for the purpol'e of con
ftruiSing three bridges—one over the
upper, and another over the lower
ferry, on Seaconk river, and a third
over Howland's ferry. The two for
mer will greatly accomodate this
town, and the neighboring towns in
the ltate of Mafliachufetts ; and the
latter mult prove highly advanta
geous to the island of Rhode-Maud,
by connecting it with the main.
On 1 hurfday afternoon* the fir ft
pier of Weyboflet bridge was erecfted.
ALBANY, July 2.
On Saturday evening at 7 o'clock
arrived in town John Jay, esq. the
gentleman who at the late election
had a majority of legal votes for go
vernor ot this ftaie. He arrived 011
the tnorning of that day at Lanfing
burg, and was entertained at Piatt's
inn, by the refpeifiable citizens of that
place, who at live o'clock, conducted
him to T roy, where he eroded the
iivei and was saluted on his landing
with jifteen difchargesof a field-piece,
by a detathment of the Albany inde
pendent artillery company, an d a
volley by the troop of hori'e ;~ a f ler
which he went into a carriage prece
dec) by the troop of horse, and f„]
lowed in proctlfion, by numbers of
citizens in carriages and on horseback
to this city, and was conducted to the
feat of General Schuyler, where th e
whole company were mod hospitably
and politely regaled ; after which the
whole dispersed with perfect
ny and good older. We are inform,
ed that Mr. Jay will favor a number
of citizens with his company at din
ner, at the city-tavern, this day ; and
to-morrow will proceed on his way
to New-York.
From a correspondent. On Satur
day evening lalt, as Mr. Chief Jultice
Jay, and Mr. Chief Jultice fates,
(the two late unfuccefstul candidates
for governor of thisltatein fucceifion)
were making their entry into this ci
ty, together in a coach, and were
pafling the window w here a circle of
Clintonians had allenibled overa jovi
al bottle, the following old celebra
ted loalt was given —" A bird iu the
hand is worth two in the bulh."
NEW-BBJJNSWICK, Jujjr j.
ExtraEl of a letter from a-genthmmti*
Kentucky, to his friend in Somtrfit,
dated Wafbington, Ma fun count},- A
\ pril %oth, 179-2- \
Mr. William Chambers went from
from his store at this place, to the
Falls of Ohio, February 25th, in a
fniall open boat, loaded with flolir,
whiskey, and dry goods, he ha 1 two
men and a boy with him, and two
women and several children went
pafiengcrs. Between the Miamies
and the mouth of Kentucky river, he
was fired upon fioni the Indian fliore
| —the ImNans whoop'd and followed
him down the river about half a
mile to a fniall creek where they
had tlieir canocs, they got into
thein, eighteen in number, one ca
noe pu.'hed across the river to the
Kentucky Ihore, and the others
pursued the boat, kept up a continu
al (king and yelling as they went.—
Mr. Chambers had two mujkets and
one blunderbuss in the boat ; but
was badly provided with ball, and
was obliged to cut bar lead into slugs
— when the Indians came within fhoc
he returned the fire, which put a ltop
to their whooping, yet pursued and
fired as fall as they could, until they
got within thirty or forty yards of
the boat, Mr. Chambers then fired
the blunderbuss, the noise of which
they seemed not to like, some of them
no doubt felt, very fenfibiy, the con
fluence. They had now pursued
the boat about three miles, tliey then
turned and went back ; the boat's
crew received no damage, except a
flight wound Mr. Chambers received
in one of his fingers. The defence
made by Mr. Chambers, considering
the situation he was in, is thought
here to be the belt ever made 011 the
river
The Indians in cases of this kind
do not fight but under great advan
tages, and then by their hediousyel
lings, so alarm and disconcert the
paflengers, that they frequently fall
an easy prey to their savage barba
rity.
For the GAZETTE, of the UNITtD STATES.
MR. FENNO, . .
J OBSERVE a publication in the National
Gazette of the 4th inlt. advises the Editor
| not to employ much of his paper in replying
the u court paragraphs," &c. which appeal in
the Gazette of the United States*; this a.
greeable to what fell from the fame writer, as
I suppose, in a former number of that paper--
, who appears to be afraid of difTeminating t. e
sentiments contained in the Gazette of the
nited States. Now, Mr. Fenno, I hope the wn
ers in your paper will adopt a different line o
conduct—-and as they have begun, will go on
set in a confptcilous point of view the P r '
and representations contained l'n that nation-
I p a p er * . If si.
It carries a title with it, which, if its 3 er
ons and infmuations are not detpftedand _ C *P
'ed, may lead to very serious errors and mi -
—It is happy for our country, that therea om „
of things does not correspond with the g •
draft, which the pencil of a junto has beenn
than nine months fetching.—Facts, ipe 3 ,, >
an irrefiflable tone ; what do they P roc 3
that since the creation, the idea co J! t j} in ' i; z .
the following sentence was never so ' 11 • . j (e( |
Ad in any quarter of the globe as in the 11
State':—" That every man Jits quieth w«-< r
vine, and under his own Jig-tree, and has
him afraid."
* 77,, r ua ;eJinr pnbn hoamr.conlaiMit"^'
rvhic* its author fujpojed uai wrote at the Uz««9
the 'Cnitcd Statu.Philadelphia, July 11.
IMPORTANT INTELLIGENCE,
By the Olive Branch, Capt. Calder, arrived
xt Boston, and the York pilot-boat, arrived at
New-York, both from London, after Ihort pal
fages, papers are received to the 2d June, they
contain the following interesting information.
In the Bruifel s Gazette of the 4th May is an
account publiflied by the government, —That
011 29 th April a body of French troops advan
ced near Tournay ; these were attacked by one
regiment and feveu companies of foot and four
squadrons of dragoons, that after the Auftrians
had fired lbme pieces of cannon the French re
treated precipitately beyond the Austrian iron
tiers —with the lol's of two dragoons, andfeveal
horses killed, forty so dbrs takeu prisoners
and four pieces of artillery. 011 the lide of the
Auftrians none killed, wounded or miffing.
On the fame day another body of French
troops, under the command of Monf. de Biron,
entered the Austrian territory, and advanced
beyond Boulfut, these were opposed by General
Beaulieu at the head of 1830 infantry and 1500
cavalry, and were obliged to retreat towards
Bouifut with the loss of twenty killed and (tve
ral wounded. The day following the French
troops again attacked Gen. Beaulieu, a Ihon
action commenced, which ended in the complete
rout of the French, who loft 250 killed, a con
siderable number taken prisoners, and five pie
ces of cannon.
The above account is under the Bruflbls head.
Under the London head are accounts which
make the above actions to have been more con
siderable ; that in the firft Ikirmilh the French loft
near four hundred men, that, in the lccond
they had 700 killed, and among them Count
Rochambeau's son—but the Brulfels account is
no doubt fufficiently exaggerated.
The papers further state, that Col. Dillon,
who commanded the French in the iirft action,
being fufpefted of treachery, was taken by the
soldiery and mob at Lille, and hung upon a gib
bet—his head and legs cut off, and the trunk of
his body burnt. —A French Abbe, fufpefted also
of treachery, parting accidentally by this scene,
was also seized and executed on the spot, the
soldiers also executed their chief engineer, and
two or three other officers. An article under
the Londonderry head fays, that Count Dillon
was, tried by a court martial, that he was
hinged and burned halfalive; the charge agair.it
him was being privy to a scheme of leading the
French troops into an ambuscade, where were
15 pieces of cannon. Col. Dillon's brother has
petitioned the National AlTembly to employ the
molt effectual measures to discover and punish
the aflaflins. Several Ikirmilhes between the
French and Auftrians took place from the 4th
to the 20th May, the date of the last continen
tal accounts; the former are represented as
having been always worlied. A great many of
the French soldiers desert and join the Austrian
army". The 3ruifv.i, Gazette ..ep.efents the
above Ikirmilhes and attempts as nothing more
than ministerial intrigues—that they (hall soon
fee whether the French army will assume a more
military attitude.—As to the Austrian troops,
the faini Gazette lays, they fecm remarkably
steady, wel( disciplined, and by no means likely
to desert.
Toe French prisoners at Brufielis amount to ,
about 23c —among whom is Lt. Col. D'Efter- ]
hazy—they are treated in the fame manner as (
the Austrian troops. The 'French minister of .
war, M. De Grave, has resigned. The Nation- ■
al AiFembly have voted an address to the peo
ple ; it recommends discipline in very earneit
term? to the soldiers, and concludes with fay
ing, u We have sworn never to capitulate •
with pride or tyranny—We will keep our oath—
Death—death, or vi&ory and equality." 'The '
alTeinbly has " ordered, that the executive
power inform the AiFembly, every eight days,
of the enquiries made into the aiFaffination com
mitted at Lifl<*, of Gen. Dillon, and other offi
cers"—nine persons were already in custody on 1
that account. A spy had been apprehended,
who, it was proved, had cried out in the adtion
of Mons, " Save himielf who can.'" The war
minister informed the AiFembly in the fitting of
the 13th May, that the whole regiment de Saxe
had deserted and gone over to the enemy—92
of them ware brought back and 88 horses.
Three squadrons of the regiment of deßerchini
have also deserted. May 14 —M. Servan gave
alarming accounts of the number of troops
which continue to desert—he demanded that a
ievere law be passed to prevent desertion, and
to deterotficersfrom resigning their commissions.
M. lznard concluded a spirited harangue by
moving, having previously aflerted that the
coufttry is in danger, that the Legislature (hould
meet 111 some private place, on the evenings
when there is no fitting ; and that a message
be sent to the King, desiring him to declare
whether he loves or hates the constitution, and
whether he means to support or destroy it.
M. Rochambeau has resigned his command,
and is succeeded by M. D'Eftaing. M.La Fay
ette's army is in theSieighbourbood of Namur,
and is continually reinforced—he seems, by
his motions, t fays the BrufFells Gazette, to be
meditating some important attack. The King
of Pruflia has ordered 70,000 men to march, of
which himfelf is to take the command. The
Duke of Brunfwick is to command the Austrian
army in Flanders—the Prince Hohenloe the
Austrian and HeUian army on the Rhine—Gen.
Brown is to command under the Duke, in
Flanders.— Thus much for foreign continental
affairs—it is pretty apparent that great allow
ance is to be made in reading the foregoing.
The citizens of the United States have had fuf
ficient experience during their own contest, to,
prevent an implicit credit in foreign news
paper details of battles, sieges, desertions, &rc.
They are more than one half exaggerations.
The accounts from England arc—That the
Lord Chancellor Thurlow has resigned—That
frefh riots had broken out in Birmingham, oc
cafioned by a soldier's being killed, and were
jencreafing when the veft'el lailed. Mr. Paine
lias publilhed a third pamphlet intitled the
Crisis—A royal proclamation is iifued agiinll
ieditious writings. Britilh stock has fallen;
3 per cents to 87. American funds at par.
A camp had been formed at Bagfliot, and ano
ther at Hyde Park.
By sundry articles under the head Coblentz,
ill the European papers, dated April 20—it ap
peals that the ex-princes have culled a convoca-
tion of their adherents, uhoie intention is to
declare the King incompetent to the duties of
his station—and to appoint Monsieur, Regent,
and Couut D'Artois generalilliiuo of the forces..
Form of a Passport for Commf.rcial Ves-
S±iS BELONGING TO FRANCE.
LOUIS, by the grace of God and the Consti
tutional law of the State, King of the French,
To all thole to whom thele prefeuts lhall come,
Greeting. The velfel named the of the
burthen of tons, having been regiltered
in, and belonging to the port of and prov
ed to be French property, we hereby declare
that said velfel is entitled to fail nnder the Na
tional Flag ot Fiance, for which purpole we
have granted letters of licence and paliport to
Cominander of laid velie], to depart
from the port and harbour of with in
ftruclions to govern hinilelf according to the
laws of the kingdom and the marine regulati-
NVe pray and request all sovereign powers,
iriends and allies of the French nation, and
their subordinate officers ; we command and
enjoin all public functionaries under orders, the
commanders of veifels belonging to the State,
and all others whom it lhall concern, fafely and
freely to l'uffer to pass the laid with his
veifel aforenamed, without interrupting him,
or fuftering that he lhall meet with any trouble,
detention, or delay whatever, but on the con
trary to Jhew him every favor, succour, and af
liftance whatever, where it lhall be necelfary.
In Witness whereof we have putourfignature,
and caused the fe-al of State to be aihxed to
the prelent paflport, and the fame to be coun-
I terfigned by the Minilter of the Marine.
The Minister, of the Marine.
Delivered at the general ojjice oj the
Marine,at No. , and djpauhed.
[Department of State, to wit
The preceding is a translation of the form of
the paflport now given by the government of
France to the veifels of their nation, as offici
ally communicated by their Minister Plenipo
tentiary, of which all whom it may concern are
desired to take notice.
Til. JEFFERSON, Sec'ry of State.
Philadelphia, Jul) 7, 1792.
The accounts of the affairs of France this
day publilhed, are received through the medium
of Britiih papers—the public anxiety h greatly
excited—but a little re flettion will relieve the
mind from an anticipation of very disagreeable
consequences to the cause of Freedom, when it
is conlidercd that the French Itory is not told
by themselves.
During the late war in America, it was ex
tremely difficult to ascertain fa&s jvhich were
said to have happened within a very short dis
tance ol" the place where accounts were pub
lifhed—ln the present cafe, when the rumors
of rumors, and the echoes of echoes, are wafted
across an ocean of a thousand leagues, and the
trumpet of news is blown by those who live by
[fabricating reports, let us be " flow to believe."
Accounts from .Cape Francois to the -65 th
June, fay, that the negroes are flill destroying
with as much fury as ever, and no profpeft of
a peace with them.
Attempts were making by the Governor to
negotiate with the mulattoesat St. Mark's,but
the event was not known.
Captain Joseph Brandt, the celebrated Indian
Chief from Canada, departed a few days since
from this city on a journey to the weltward.—
It is fai I his objedt is to endeavour to concili
ate the minds of the hostile Indians, and lay
the foundation for a permanent peace between
those tribes and the United States.
By a veflel arrived here on Saturday last we
learn, the decree of the National Aiiemhly giv
ing to the free negroes and people of colour equal
rights with the whites is generally approved of
in the colony. The parish of Jeremie, only,
have made (hew of opposition to it.
By this veflel we alio learn, that the negroes
have written to M. de Rouvray, proposing
peace on terms le s rigorous than heretofore.
The vefTel also brings accounts of a declaration
of war between Ruflia and France.
Extrafl oj a Utter jrom Majjachufdts.
u Some late accounts from the westward give
a dawn of hope that peace may eventually be
concluded with thehoftile Indians without much
more war ; i* it can be, it will be fortunate in
many refpe&s. If it were not for some white'
Stages on the frontiers of some slates, I conjec
ture the business might be effe<sledwith whiikey;
and blankets. I wish the good Quakers, or
some other denomination equally pacific, might
always be next neighbors to the Indians, as they
boast of knowing how to live at peace with
them.
44 Here 9 you will observe, we have the old ru-j
lers re-cietfled, and things jog 011 according to
old stile. We are blest with a fine season."
The state of births, death??, and commerce,;
in the city of Amflerdam for the year 179 1 ?
stands thus :
During the last year, 8970 persons have died
in that city, which is 291 more than the pre
ceding year.
The total chriftcnings in the Lutheran and
reformed churches, amount to 5176.
In the course of* the year, 1791 veflels of di£»
ferent nations have entered the Texcl> which
is 75 less than the preceding year.
47
The jallowing adanft to the Rational jijfnukly of
l ranu, uvanimokjty aetctd to by the LcgiJlatureoj
Virginia, u extractedJtum the Journals cj 1791.
" .WEj the representatives of the people of
Virginia, long fompathifing with the* National
AlVembly ut Franfce, in t. fir glorious llruggle
for liberty, avail onrlelves of the earlielt op
portunity to present, with all the finccrity of
iraternal alie'titm, our warmest congratulati
ons on the tiilablilhment of your new Conititu
tian—a comtitution in which every malculiue
feature is portrayed that could strongly mark
it as the legitimate offspring of liberty. Indeed
i om such an illultrious band of patriots and
pWi"' 'pliers, we anticipated nothing lei's, pre-
Ic-rvi. -j as you have done, with undimiuifhed
■ uni; through do many iucceflive ages, that
noble I'pirit of your anccftors, which often bade
defiance to the ancient conquerors of the world.
" It is impossible for a nation, in the full en
joyment of liberty, to look witii an eye of in
difference on the struggles of another to pro
cure it. Upon the general principles of phi
lanthropy then we felt an anxious i'olicitudefor
the fuccefsful issue of your labors. ' But when
wecarry our minds back,and review the event
ful hiflory of our own country, we are impelled
by the strongest additional motives of si iend
fhip and gratitude, to fympathue with the Na
tional Alfemblv of France.
44 We venerate the wiidom that suggested—
we admire the boldness that commenced—we
applaud the manly firmnefs that pursued—we
are pleased with the humanity and politic for
bearance that ensured—and we love the virtue
that atchieved the enterprize. Long may you
enjoy the inestimable blelling which this combi
nation of enviable attributes has secured to
you, and may your example be imitated, not
oniy by the reft of Europe, but by every enilav
ed nation upon the face of the' globe—till des
potism, with all its holt of enemies to human
happiness and improvement, is entirely chafed
away."
V leading feature in the chara&er of the re
generated French has appeared to be affection
to the English ; no longer influenced by those
unjust prejudices, those mean jealousies, which
formerly divided the two countries, they have
taken every occasion to express, with regard
to the British nation, the highest relpecl and
confidence, and to shew how desirous they are
to cultivate a reciprocal good utiderftanding,
and eftablilh a permanent alliance. Thh sen
timent has appeared not only in those public
tranfa&ions, which might be influenced by poli
cy, but in the conduct of individuals, which af
t\. as the best, and indeed only, criterion of
! real charade r.
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
Stating facts with respect to the Bank of
the United States, has been called— u Throw
ing duit in the peoples' eye*but it may with
more propriety be said, that some of" the false
hoods and misrepresentations which have been
th\ »wn out on the iubjeft are brick-hat argu
ments, calculated to knock the peoples'eyes
out. The measures of the General Govern -
ment are the result of the 1110 ft labored invefti
! gation, and are founded on experience—as fuel;
i they will Hand tke left ; but had the vrjiwary
I schemes of many persons been adopted, efpe
ciallv those relating to finance, it is pore
than probable that the hopes of the people, like
the do ve of Noah, would to this day have found
no retting place. And though this o'ofervation
is in part conjectural, yet confidc-ring that the
oppofers of the measures which have received
the lan&ion of the Legislature of the United
States, are generally the fame persons who op
posed the adoption of the new Constitution, and
ere the advocates of committee systems and paper
expedients in the days of our humiliation, the
conjecture appears to be well founded —but
however this may be, certain it is, that the stric
tures on men and measures which form the long
columns in the National Gazette, are deiigned
to subvert the prelent harmony, peace and hap
piness of the Union. —This obje<st is, in short,
openly avowed—For, fay these modest eagle
eyed supervisors of the legiilative and execu
tive departments of the government of the tJ
nited States, u Another Revolution must be
brought about," that is, That revolution,
which has given birth to the glorious revolutions
in Europe, mud be revolutionized.
"Whoever, fays a correspondent, is acquaint
ed with the manners and customs of* the Indian
nations, and their mode of carrying on war,
must be convinced that the pre fen t system of
military discipline ought to be entirely laid a
lide. How absurd is it to spend fix or eight
months, in teaching men to hold one of their
eyes over the button holes of their jacket, a
practice absurdly called u drejjingy" eventually
of no service whatever in the grand aim of all
armies, that of conquering.
Shouting on the day of battle is a practice
founded in nature, the dreadful efFe&s of which
are known only to those who have experienced
them, or are only to be conceived of by those
acquainted with the principles of adlion in the
human mind.
Who has not heard of the infernal yell on the
fourth of November last ? Its consequences are
too well known.
If the found of a warbling brook, or the gen
tle failing of rain will lull the mind to sleep, or
if the fpirrit-ftirring-drum will invite to action,
why should not other founds produce effe<sts that
unman the foul ? The custom of lhouting has
been practised by the Trojans, by the Geimans,
by the Gauls, by the Grecians, and by the Ma
cedonians and Persians. In many inltances,
recorded by historians, the enemy have fhame
fully fled, upon hearing the shout, before they
were in danger from the pikes of their adver
faries.
J-et us imitate the practice of those nations.
Caesar has been its advocate. The exprellioi
ofCato, the elder, will juilify the experiment,
u that he gained more battles by the throats
than by the swords of the soldiers."
An account of the failure of Meflrs. Duer,
Macomb, &c. it isfaid, had reached London be
fore the arrival of the express-boat dispatched.
from New-York on that event.
Papers from New-York by ycftcrday's pofl
contain many particulars of the late engagements
between the French and the Auftrians, by which
it appears that Monf. dc Biron and other French
(Oininandcu conduced with diftinguiftied bra
very* and that the repulses they met with were
owing to feveial unfortunate incidents—That M.
de la Fayette had token the Abbey of Oival, a
tich defot of arms and money for the Emigrants—
in the ikiimifh 22 Aulhians and 6.French fell.—
Further accounts at in tngland of the
iueceft of Lord Cornwallis; if was expelled he
would be before Seringapatam by the 13th of Ja-
uuai y
The French Mmiiler of foreign affairs in
formed the National AfTembly 011 the Bth May,
that Mr. Pitt had given a flu ranees of the neu
trality of Great-Britain ; that several of the
German Princes had avowed their intention to
contribute only their defeniive proportions of
troops to the army of the Empire—and that
Sweden has determined to remain in peace.
We hear nothing of the Empress of llufiia in
the late accounts—the report of war's being de-'
clared against Rullia, is not coniirmed of courfc.
The Directors of the AfTociation for efta
bliftung ufeftil manufa&ures met at the new
Town of Paterfon, New-Jer/ey, on Tuesday
!aft ; and after purchaling the lands of the pro-
upon the exact situations of the
different mill feats, and other principal build
ings of the establishment. The town it is said
is to be laid out by the celebrated Major L'En
fant—the form of which it is contemplated
(hall be circular—encompassing a delightful
plain intended for a bleaching ground ; every
advantage appears to be concentered in this si
tuation to make it the moll eligible in the United
State?, for the permanent establishment of ma
nufactures.
EXTRACT.
"DESPOTISM is an excellent fyflein for all
its ministers ; excellent for their paflions, their
fortune, their pride, their revenge, their plea
lures ; but detestable for the people whom it
crushes ; dsteftable alio for kings, whom it
renders odious and contemptible, all whose
faults it occasions, all whose fnisfortunes, and
sometimes their ruin/'
ENGLISH PARAGRAPHS.
Admit the diflenters to the common rights of"
citizens, and there will be anendof them, " Re
ligion," fays an acute politician, " is merely
the talking horle upon these occasions." When
the civil and political interests cease to clalh,
adieu to all diftin&ions upon religious fubjefts.
—A diiienting minister said, the other day, that
were the test and corporation a&s abo'.iflied, it
would be the worst thing in the world for the
diflenters (as diflfenters) for that then the body
of them that opprefiion, real or supposed, keeps
together, would have no common center of uni
on or r ttra^li.j-i.
u The house of Hanover/' said a leader some
years ago to one of our governors in America,
" are the worll enemies the friends here e\er
had ; they have never once persecuted us."
FROM A DUBLIN PAPER, OF MAY 15,
JAMES NAPPER TANDY.
LaftWednefday bills of indictment were found
by the Quarter Seflion Grand Jury of the city
against Joseph Knight, the person who arrested
Mr. Tandy on Monday the 13th of April last,
purfuantand in virtue of a proclamation iifued
for apprehending that gentleman, by the Lord
Lieutenant and Privy Council. In consequence
of this proceeding, the validity of a proclama
tion, such as the one above mentioned, will be
tried in a few days by a Jury of Dublin citizens.
Wednesday last the Attorney-General moved,
in the Court of King's Bench, on the part of the
Kino;, at the prosecution of John Toler, Esq.
his Majesty's Solicitor General, that the Cleric
of the Crown may be at liberty to fend up a bill
of indi&ment to the present City Grand Jury,
against James Napper Tandy, Esq. for fending
a challenge to the said John Toler, Esq. his
Majesty's Solicitor General, when the Court
ruled it—be it so.
Upwards of 70001. is mentioned to have been
already subscribed to fupportMr. Tandy against
the Court Prosecution, and to enable him with
effect to carry on his two prosecutions against
the names annexed to the decree under which,
he was apprehended in the firft instance and a
gainst Knight who executed the warrant of it
in apprehending him.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig La Federation, Powel, Cape-Francois
Betsey, Elliot, do.
John,
Lillibridge,
Swallow,
Schr. Maria Charlotte,
Cheese man,
Numes,
James, Darrell,
Sloop Friendship, Roth,
Swift and Easy, Barrows,
Chloe, Baker,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 21f 2 %fs
3 per Cents,
Deferred, 12 /io 13/
ihares Bank U. S. 43 per (jent. preni.
THE UNIVERSAL HYMN BOOK.
Now in the Press, and will be ready for Sale ia
ten days, by THOMAS DOBSON,and
other Bookfelleis in Philadelphia,
A Sele&ion of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
xJI. RITUAL SONGS ; taken li oin different All
- for the Use of those who believe in the
Rcftorationof all Men. Published by Order of
he Convention holding said Faith, met in Phila
delphia, May, 1791.
%* As this is an Universal Hymn Book, the
favor of the Printers in different parts, in inserting
;h above advertisement, will be acknowledged.
July 11. opts.
do.
Boftoa
Mariinico
Charleston
St. Croix
Bermuda.
New-York.SONNET,
To RICHARD PRICE, D.D.
ILLUSTRIOUS veteraa ! in that noble band,
arm'd with *eafon's panoply divine,
And train'd by virtue, round the radiant Ihrine
Of liberty,>a ftedfaft phalanx stand :
Friend of all human kind ! whose generous foul,
By 110 mean int'reft cramp'd, 110 partial aim,
Expatiate-; free, and, touch'd with heav'nly flame,
Speeds the large wilh to bless, from pole to pole :
Thou wilt not waver in the glorious fight,
Tlio* liaie, and scorn, and calumny aIM,
Foes long difdain'd ; nor lieed the gorgeous tale
Of prejudice in wisdom's livery bright :
For sooner lhall the-world' firm pillars fail,
Than f r;edom quench her fire , &r knowledge fink in night.
EROM THE NORWICH REGISTER.
RAGS, Rags, fays a Prompter—And ?the Pa
|ier makers, the retailers, and printers and
printers devils echo Rags, Rags,
But if these people want Rags they must bid
a little more on the pound. Two pence on the
pound is but a final! cotnpenfation to a young
lady for ltooping two hundred times to pick up
ihreds, or foi fouling her hands with a dish-clout
or houfe-cloth—fie on the man who thinks that
Moll and Betty would undertake such small bu
siness for such small gains—We have bibles e
nocgh in the house already, and Pa buys us our
caps, curtains, &.c &c.
Ih vain Mr. Prompter do you preach letftures
of temperance and economy, anil all for Rags,
Rags, unless you convince Pa and Ma, that ha
bits of industry and economy are refutable, and
that the bitere/l and reputation of their children
depend wholly on such habits—for fafhious mud
be followed, though the expences bankrupt Pa,
and ruin the family The firft thing theiefore
is to perfuadt Pa and Ma, to persuade Moll and
Betty that no one thing of ever so small value is
to be wafted—a pin, a nail, a piece of old iron,
» rag is to be saved. I know an estate worth
thousands of ponnds which was collected in these
very articles, and the man who pofl'efles it is as
careful now ot such small matters, as he was,
when he not worth ten shillings. Any per
-fon may do, the lame—Tis industry and econo
my, *yith a disposition to keep one's expences a
( little fhtirt 6f x the income, which gathers the
rnofj, old iron, rags, &c. &c. and hoards them up
till they command the money, while pride, or
falfe ambition, or a disposition to imitate tliofe
who are rich, in their foibles, or an idea that
saving a ftired is too mean an employ, or does
not amply pay for the trouble, is certain to
bring the poflcH'or to rags—but not such as he can
spare t,o fell—therefore to avoid Rags, save your
Rags. GRUB.
SOCIETY FOR ESTABLISHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
At a meeting of the Directors of the Society for
eftablilhing ufeful manufactures, held at New
ark, on Friday the eighteenth day of May,
1792, at which time was pafled the following.
Supplement to ail ordinance, entitled, " An pr
dinance for securing the puiidiual payment of
the monies due on the subscriptions to the so
ciety for eftablilhing ufeful manufactures."
WHEREAS by the third fetftion of the ordi
nance entitled, " An ordinance for fecur
iagthe puiwfiual payment of the monies due on
the subscriptions to the society for eftablilhing
ufeful manufactures," it is ordained, that if any
subscriber or his afligns, (hall negleCl to pay the
second, third or fourth payment of his, her or
their rcl'pecfiive fnbfcriptions, for the space of
three days after the expiration of the time limit
ed by the law of incorporation for the said pay.
ments, that is to fay, the second payment, on the
13th day of Ju1y,1792 : that then and in that
cafe, all and every share or fliares, offuchperfon
or persons. so neglecting to make such payments
as alorefaid, and the monies by them previously
paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever thereafter
veiled in the said diieCtors and their fucceflors
lor the common benefit of the said focietv.
And whereas circumstances render it 'inexpe
dient to exa<fl full payment of the second inltal
nient on the said thirteenth day of July next or
witliin three days thereafter. '
Beit therefore ordained, by the deputy gover
nor and directors of the society for eftablifliine
ufeful manufactures, that if the said second pay
ment lhall be made in manner following, that is
to fay, one equal third part thereof, on or before
the thirteenth day of August next, one other e
qua] third part thereof, on or before the thir
teenth day of September next, and one other e
qual third part thereof, on or before the thir
teentb'day of Otftober next, with lawful interest
computed thereon from the said thirteenth day
of July next, that then and in such cafe, the laid
penalty mentioned in the said feftion, shall not
be exacled, any thing in the said ordinance to
the contrary notwithllanding.
A. MERCER, Dep. Gov.
Extract from the minutes,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN Co.
HAVE just now Opened their Lead-War etiouse, two doors
foutho.f Walnut-ilreetWha/F, adjoining their New Fa&ory
where they have now made, and ready for lale, a general afibtt
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englifo workmen, they warTant it to be
equal irt quality to any manufactured in Europe, ana at a reduced
price from the cofi of imported.
They also continue to manufa£ture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. Ail orders addressed to either of ihe
above Fa£tories, will be thankfully received, and execnted on the
(h or tell notice.
N. B. Wanted, induftrioos, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, whereconftant em pit; y, good wages, and other encourage
ments w»ll be given, mews < i'conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire ofMeffr-s. Moses Austin & Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia* December 3, 17Q1
NEW TEA S.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very firi> quality, and latest importation from Canton, *ia
New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnui and Market Streets
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, G rea t Dock-street, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf entirely to the
PURCHASE and SALE of STOCKS ON COMMISSION,
Begs leave to offer his services to his friencs and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those -who may please to favor him wuh
their business, may depend upon having it tranla£ted with the ut
most fidelity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of the
United States will be iln&ly attended to.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(t.f.)
May 2
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
STATE-Street, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind of the Stocks of the United. States, on
CommiHion, by Private Contract, and Public Au&ion.—
Those gentlemen who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
80/ ion. March, (iawjm)
BOOKS,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATHEW CAREY,
Nq. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. A MERICAN MUSEUM, fiom its commencement in Janu
/X ary 1787, to December 1791, in ten vols. Price, neatly
bound and lettered, sixteen dollais.
This work, which is now conduced on an improved plan, con
taining the bell pieces publiflud tor and against the proceedings
of gove»m«ent, will be found to contain at Ifalt as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and miscellaneous essays, as any ever pub
lilhed in America, Perhaps in no one work aie so many valuable
docurm nts refpedtuig the hiftovy of this country, collided toge
ther. His Excellency the Prelident of the United States, bas de
clared of it, that " a more u/cful literary plan has never been un
dertaken in Ameiica, nor one more deserving of public encou
ragement." The subscription \s two dollars and a half per ann.
Gentlemen in the country who wilteto be supplied with this
work, are requested to give commiflion 10 friends in the city to
lubferibe for and receive if- Any of the back numbers may
be had in order to complete sets.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss More's EflTays,
Gregory's Legacy* Lady Pennington's Advice, Marchioness ot
Lambeit's Advice, Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs.
Chapone on command ot Temper, Moire's Fables lor the Ladies.
Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New-York, from its firft fetilemcnt to
the year 1732. To which is annexed, a description of the coun
try, with a (hort account of the inhabitants, their religious and
political ftatc, and the conftitutien of the courts of jufticc. Puce
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beattie, l. l, d. pro
feffor of moral philosophy and logic in the Marilchal College,
Aberdeen—Price three-fourths of a dollar. CM this book, the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : 44 We have fetfn nbthing
on these lubjc&s more plain, more perspicuous, or more generally
ufeful." N. B. It is introduced into the UniverGty 111 Phila
delphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, Bii'tifh and American, containing felett
produ&ioir of the inoil eminent Biuifii and American poets---
Price four-fifths of a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the three volumes
ot the Britlfh edition, in two---Price two dollars.
7. Ntcker's Trcatile on the importance of Religious Opinions.
Price four-fifths of a dollar.
8. Examination of the Observations of Lord Sheffield on Ame
rican Commerce—Price, on very fine paper, 5 Bths ot a dollar.
9. The Constitutions of the fcveral United Mates, with the Fe
deral Conftituticn, &c. Price five-eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an eoic poem, a new edition in i 2mo . Price
three-eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jest Book, in two parts, with two very neat en
gravings—-Price, bound, three-fifths of a dollar.
14 Garden ot the Soul, hy Bishop Chalenor—Price, bound in
calf and lettered, three quarters of a dollar—plain, halt a dollar.
13 The Doway Transition of the Vulgate liibli, in quarto-'--
Price, elegantly bound and Uttered, 50/2—plain, fi\ dollars.
14- Devout Christian's Vade Mecum— Price a quarter dollar.
15. I liink well on't, or rcflcftions for every day of the month.
Pi ice a quarter dollar.
16. thult.an Economy, translated from a Greek manuscript
found in the island of Patmos, where St. John wrote the Anocal
lypfe ---Price a fifth of a dollar.
17. Hulory of Charie. Grandifon, abridged—Price a sixth of a
dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third of a dollar.
19. Sdetl Poems, chiefly American-.-Piice a sixth of a dollar
iaid Carey has for rale, 3 large aflortment of Books, Euro
pcan as well as American editions, which Ire will dispose of on the
'"Tenable terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied in the molt fatisUc
tory manner A liberal allowance to fucli as purchalc quantities
tor public libraries,or to fell a£,.in.
GEORGETOWN (PO TOW MAC.)
the subscriber hath opened a
* House of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES
In that commodious Huule lately occupied by Thomas Bcaic,l\o.
... . Mayor of this Town.
He hos furniflied himfelt with a iiock.of the best L : qnors and
w.ll ufc every exert,on to give fatisfaetmn by ',heir
eafon. the best of every fpec.es ot provif,on/and havm M ™
dup m the most nca; a „d elegant manner. °
GEORGE 11. LEIGH.
48
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPIIIAf
PER QUANTITY.
July n.—DOLLARS loeCeoueatl
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7c 8c ' Pitch, p T . bbl. jjf ~f
Allum.Enghlh, p t "Pork, Burlington, i.rfujt
Ditto, Koch pr. lb. in . Lower count* ,
Ashes, pot, per toe, $odiQod a ——Carolina 101
Pearl, 137<Z140« Peas, Albany pr. buflt ,*
Arrack pr. gall, id 33c id 67c Pepper, p r . lb. 2
Brandy, common, id|a6c Pimento
l<r«,len°fp" C ton. brft - P r - >
Brtcks, pr. M. yd Dj P r -J" 3
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. id Bcc 2d pr. box
Ditto, pilot 3d 33c ft nf P r-c> *'* 67
Ditto, (mall water 36040 c "> pr. bbl. id 2yd6y
Beer, American, in V , I J anla,ca P'-gall.iiSc 122
bot pr.doz. bot. incl. J g | i»t
pr. bbl. 4 t/ 67c D i Windward 93c JOC,
to r Oak pr.M feet, 9d ind * j £ arWo " 87,
Q | Merch. pine 16d iyj LCou.uty, N.E. 67
< Sap, do. 8d Saltpetre,pr. cwt!ii<f Wu ,
o I N. Eiig. 11 d Saffafras pr. ton fj-Si
00 LCedar 14 d Shot
The above arctkc Shallop prices-, (German pr.lb. o
Jor,the Yardp>ices and id 33c W }English, blistered cwtio,
pr. M. "S American pr. ton, 113^33
Erunftone rolls pr.cwt. 3^33c <n ( Crowley's pr. fag 10^67,
Beef, iiniton 8d Suake root pr. lb. 20c
Country 6d yd Soap, Brown g
Butter pr. lb. 14c White g
in kegs . gc ioc Castile n
2 fSper. pr.lb. 43c Starch 7
J I Wax 53'$6c Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4^60
O Myrtle Wax 13c Spermaceti, refined, 48
Mould,tailow 11c Sailcloth, Englifh,l
O (.Dipped 10c No 1, per yard, J
Chcefe, Euglifh, pr. lb. 190 Boston, No. I. 30
—■ —1 — Country 8c 10c — No. 11. jg
Chocolate 17c 18c 'Ruflia sheeting, pr.-p. 12,
Cinnamon zd 40c id 67c ("Lump, pr.lb 84,
Cloves 11/200 pi • Loaf, single refin&d 261
Coal pr. bushel 20c 22c < j Dilio, double do. 361
Cocoa pr. cwt. 14J67C 1 Havannah, white i;cißt
Coffee pr. lb. 20c « j Ditto, brown, 15c
Copperas pr.cwt. 11/670 LMufco.pr.cwt nd\6d6yc
Cordage "d6ycßd Spirits Turpentine 1. g. 33037 c
Cotton pr.lb. 26c 4CO , f Allum pi 1 , buih. 24027 c
Cuirants 13c j 29 c
Duck, Ruflia, pr,piece 111/330 < iCarliz 23024 c
Ravras 8493031(670 M (Lifbon 25027 c
Feathers ft. lb. 40c 44c Ship build. W. O.T , ,
Flax 11012 c frames p. ton, ji 1 *3"33
Flaxfeed pr. uufh. 8,50901; Do. LO. 151^33016^670
Flour, Super, pr. bbl. 51130 Do. red cedar, p. f. 33040 c
Common, Sac Shingles, fh. p. M. 2^3302^67
Bur middlings,belt 41/ Do. long dressed lidi^d^y
Meal, Indian 2d $°c Scantling,heart, 33^
diito Rye, Sap BdSd6yd
—-Ship-fluff pr.cw. id 33 oi J p, 1000
Fustic pr. ton, 20d « j W r Q . hoglhead ! 9 i 3J
lin, Holland, pr.cafe, 4d 670 > J R.O. do. 191/5 c
Do. ' Pr, £all. 80c < I Leogan 2ii 33
HI p~ - '
Glue, pr. cwt. zod 2id 33c
Ginger, whitcracc 7d
7 d
>. 8c
2CC 24C
Ditto, common
Ditto, ground pr. lb,
Gin Ceng, s
Gunpowder, can- ) j j
non, pi. q. c. £ 7 3 c 4
Ditto, fine glazed 4J
f Wheat pr. bush 93c 95c
i R y e .=>¥
_ I Oats 26c
Indian corn 41c
I Barley 90c
J Best (helled pr. lb. 3 c
Buckwiieat ps r bush. 40c
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, 146.67 c
American, pr. lb. 4 c $c
Herrings, pr. bbl. $d
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9c 11c
Hops ?yc
Hogshead hoops, pr. M Isd
Indigo, French lb. idzoc id 33c
Carolina 40c id
Irons, fad pr. ton, 33c
f Callings pr. cwt 47c
"Z j Bar pr.ton, 82d6,c
0 \ Pig 24 d 26d 67c
_ 1 Sheet 33c
( Nail rods 96d
Junk, pr. cwt. 4 d 5//
1 ard, hogs pr. lb. 9 c icc
Lead in pigs pr.c. 5^33c 5V67C
'.n bars 7d
Lead, white \od\od6-jc
red 6d
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 17c 20c
Lignum vita pr. ton, 5 d 60c 6d
Logwood 24 d
Mace pr. lb. yd 33c 67c
Mackaiei, best pr. bbl. 9 d
— fccorid quality 6d 67c
Madder, best pr. lb. 16c zee
Marble.wrought, pr.f.
Ma ft spars 33c 67c
MolalFcb .pr.gall. 44c 50c
Mustard per. lb. 87c
Mahogany pr. foot, 10c
Nails, lodizd and 20d ioc
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7d 8d
"Linfeedj pr. gall. 6sc6jc
Olive 87 c
Ditto pr. cafe,* 2d $cc
. Best fwect in } ,
—<J flafks,pr.box $ 10 5 0c
1 —balkets 12 bottles
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
I Tram 24C27C
Whale 22c 28s
Porter pr. ca/k, 5 d 33 c
London, pr. doz. id6oc
Porter, American ) ,
pr.rfoz. bot.incl. J*
TICKETS in the NEW-BRUNSWICK LOTTERY, are to
be had at the following placcs, viz.-—Samuel Coopf f s
Ferry; at Burlington, of R. Pierfon, Esq. Bordentown, c. * r -
John Van Emburgh ; Mount Hollv, of J. Read, Efq- rc " to L'
of John Singer, Esq. Amboy, of James Parker, Esq. E' ,za ' c '
Town, of R.Gray; Powles-Hook, of Col. Smith ana Ju g
Hunt; Cranbmy, ot W 'l»am Throckmorton Spotfwood , an 0
the Managers m Brunfwick. -
TO BE SOLI) BY THE EDITOR,
and paving Gold at tlie Bank 01 th
. i!,c Vdtue of GoU i» Dollar. «»d
,ui Penny weights— tccordißg 10 tM
>U- Sundaid Value of GoJd.
AT A BLE for re
. States,
i> (>..«. r
Aci of Con
V*-
.-V v-
10 d
2 6d 67*
Barrel
Heading
| r Otter, best pr. pie.
Minks 20C401
Fox, grey 40c 8c
idioc
24 c 1 i
33 c 6 : c
3<
red
Martins
V. Fifhcrs
Bears
Racoons sjcScc
Musk-rats ii£*oc
! Braver, pr. lb. 67c id 33c
Dcci, in hair 20c 30c
Tar,N. Jerfcy, 24 gal. p. bbl. id
—Carolina, 32 gall. xdffiidSjc
Turpentine pr. bbl. \db7cld
\ _ r James R. best 3d 60c 13c
£ I inferior zdS"jC 3^
§ old \d 67c
f " Rappahannock 2d 50C3&
Q 1 Colo.Maryland $d33c 8i
U ' Dark 2./ 40c
Long-leaf id \cc
H Eaftern-Hiore 2d id 93c
O Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
■ H L old
f Hyson pr. lb. 93c
00 I Hyson fk n, 53 c 6
<( Souchong, scc93c5 cc 93 c
P | Congo, 4# S oc
LBohea. 3 0C 33 c
Tallow, refined 9 C
Tin pr. box, 13^33 C "? C
Tar,
— C,
Tur
Vefdigreafe pr. lb. 47^,53 c
Vermillion idtfcidbjc
Varniih, 33 c c
f Madeira,pr.p. ic6d-.ood
I.ilbou 96^100^
TeuerifFc, pr. gal- S IC^CC
~ F,iyal 44 c 49 c
§ J Port pr. p. io6d6"]C 120 a
1 ~ Do. in bottles,pr.doz 4J
£ Claret 4^ 6<l
Sherry pr.gall.9° n „
Malaga 'n<- Bo£
Wax, Bees pr. lb. J S C
Whale-bone, longpr.lb. 13*3™
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
go days J) above par.
60 days i4> ditto.
30 aays 2 ) pr.ct. above par.
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 4"
90 days 39*
Government bills, drawn atx
days per 11 guilders, 4 44
France, 60 days 81C f° r 5_
if