a National paper, published Wednesdays and Saturdays by john fenno, no, 60. high-street, pnii.ADEi.pmA
[No. 25, of Vol. IV.]
Treasury Department,
August 20th, j 792
NOTICE is hereby gioen, that pronofjU will
be received at the office of tlie Secretary ol
the Treasury, until the t 3 th day of Oaobei next
inclusive, tor the supply of all rations which may
be required for the use of the United States, ftom
thefirftdav of January to the thirty-firft dav of
December 1793. bothdayt inclusive, at Springfield,
in trie State ot Maflachuletts. and the Poll of Weft-
Point, in the State of New-York.
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the
following articles, v' 7.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of pork,
Half a iill of rum, brandy or whiflcy,
One quart of fait,
Two quarts of vinegar, \
.Two pounds «vf soap, f" P er 100 rat ' ons *
One pound of candles. )
The proposals mav he made for both of the
above-mentioned Posts, or separately, for Spring
field and Weft-Point.
Treasury Department,
August, 20th, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby g' v en, that proposals will
be received at the office of the Secretary of,
the Treasury until the fourth day of Odlober next'
inclusively, for the supply of the following articles
of Clothing for the Troops in the service of
the United States viz.
For the INFANTRY and ARTILLERY.
4608 Hats 18460 Shirts
4608 Coats 795 6 Pair of Socks
4608 "Verts 4608 Blankets
8668 Woolen Overalls 4608 Stocks
9216 Linen Overalls 4608 Stock Clasps
18376 Pair of Shoes 4608 Pair of Buckles
For the CAVALRY.
360 Caps -720 Pair of Stockings
360 Coats 1440 Shirts
360 Vests 360 Blankets
360 Pair of Leather 360 Stocks
(Breechos 360 Stock Clasps; also,
720 Pair of Boots 1200 Rifle Shirts, to be
360 Pair of Spurs (made of Ruflia Sheeting.
The above Clothing to be delivered either in
New-York, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the op
tion of the contractor or contractors, on or bctorc
the 15th day of June, 1793.
The proposals may comprise the whole of the
before-mentioned Clothing, or anv one or more
of thecomponent articles; to be furnifhed agreea
bly to patterns orfpecimens, which will be shewn
at the War Office. Good security will be requir
ed for the punttual and faithful performance of
the contra#. The payment will be on the delive
ry of the Clothing, or, if necefiary, such reafona
"ble advances will be made as the Secretary of the
Treasury ftiall deem expedient.
War Department,
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are intitled for fix months
of theirannual pension. from the 4th day of March
1792, and which will become due on the sth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the said day
by the Commilfioners of the Loans within the
Slates rcfpe6iively, under the usual regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mull be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
:ft. The certificate given by the ftate,fpccifying
that the person po fie fling the fame is in fa<sl an in
valid, and afccitaining the lum to which as such he
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. R. came before me, one of the Jufiices of the
county of in the Jlate of and made oath that
he is the fiime A. B. to whom the original certificate
in his pojjejjion was given, of which the following is
a copy (the certificate given by the jlate to be recited)
That he served (regiment, corps or vejfefj at
the time he was disabled, and that he now rejides in
the and county of and has resided
therefor the lafl years, previous to which he re
sided in
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by
an attornev, the said attorney, besides the certifi
cate and oalh before recitcd, must produce a spe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the following
form ;
I, A. B. of county of slate of do
hereby conflitute and appoint C. D. of my lawjul
attorney, to receive in my behalf of my pension
for fix months, as an invalid of the United States,
from the fourth day of March, one thou far d seven
hundred and ninety-two, and ending the fifth day oj
September, one thoufandfeven hundred And ninety-two.
Signed and sealed
in tHe presence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors, and adminiftratory
rnuft be accompanied with legal evidence of their
refpe&ive offices, and also ot the time the invalids
died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the
Prcfident of the United States,
M. KNOX, Secretary oj War.
The Printers in the refpc£live States are
requcftcd to publifli the above in their newfpa
pcrs, for the Tpace of two months.
IJjlf. T HO M A S Ml FF L I N,
Governor of th<: Common wraith of 'Pmnfylvaria.
Pennfyiva.nia i JJ\ T THERE AS it appears
i<- s. V v from the Return of
Thomas Mifflin, an Inqucft which was held
on the seventeenth day of
AugiiiL ir.ftanf, that a certain Elizabeth Reeves,
of the city of Philadelphia, spinster, has been
wilfully aifcl with malice aforethought murdered
by some pcrfon or persons, to the said Inquest
unknown ; And whereas juiHce, humanity, and
policy require, that every exertion should be
made to detest and punish the perpetrator or
perpetrators of a crime so heinous: Therefore
T have thought it proper and expedient to iflue
this Proclamation, hereby offering a reward of
THREE HUNDRED to anyperfon
or persons who (hall discover, apprehend and
secure the perpetrator or perpetrators of the
said Murder, his, her, or their aiders and abet
tors, to be paid upon the conviction of them, or
any of them. And all Judges, Justices, Sheriffs,
Coroners, Constables, and other Officers of the
Commonwealth (according to the duties of their
refpe&ivc stations) are hereby required and en
joined, to employ afl lawful means, for discoVer
ing, apprehending, securing, trying, and bring
ing to justice, as well the perpetrator, and per
petrators of the said Murder, as also all other
persons aiding and afiifting therein.
Given under my hand and the ere# Seal of
the State at Philadelphia, this twenty
fecond day of* August, in the year of our
Lord one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-two, and of the Commonwealth
the seventeenth.
By the Governor.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
JN my la ft, the general principle of honeftv,
as an eilential requisite for a representative
was glanced at—the idea was suggested that
private and public honesty are to be ailbciated in
scanning the charafrers which ought to arrest
the attention of eledors-—and in fa ft there is
not a more obvious and unerring criterion, to
guide us in our enquiries. It ought to be cfta
blifhed as a maxim in the mind ofeveryele&or,
that he, who dilcovers no regard for those ob-,
ligations of moral, social, and political duty,'
which constitute the beauty, peace and security
of every well regulated community or govern
ment, is not to be depended on in any public
trust whatever.
It may not be improper to sketch a few out
lines of the other requisites neceflary to form
the character of a competent representative.
In this improved state of our country, when,
through the favorable operation of thole wife,
literary institutions which our ancestors efta
blilhecl, and the present age has augmented and
improved, there is so great a proportion of men
of superior attainments—at a time when we
fee and realize the immense disproportion be
tween persons of education, and literary im
provements, and those who do not pofTefs those
advantages 5 when we fee the influence this
weight of abilities, must necessarily polTefs in
oppolition to ordinary or medium acquirements
—when we consider the important rank which
Pennsylvania holds in the scale of the Union—
the idea comes with irrefiftable force, that it
is our indispensable duty to support that rank
by ele&ing persons of the most distinguished a
bilities, natural and acquired, as representatives
in Congcefs to maintain the honor,and advance
the interest of the commonwealth, in connec
tion with that of the union. It is of more im
portance than is generally imagined, that the
public attention should be roused to a consider
ation of this point. Men of conscious honor,
integrity and great abilities, are among the
last in a free community, who are solicitous for
public appointments—they never will lie found
either making direci applications to the people
or uflng indirect methods through the agency of
others, to procure their fuffrages—fuch are the
persons from whom alone we are to expect dis
interested and independent condudt in public
life—fuch characters must be fought after—and
tempted from their retirements by the most
honorable of all inducements, the free unsoli
cited fuffrages of a free community. Men of
this description, when placed on the thea
tre of public life, will be superior to party, pre
judice and passion ; superior to the little con
siderations that warp the needy and felfiih from
the line of re&itude ; and superior to the glare
of sophistry and unprincipled profeflions, which
overpower and bewilder the faculties of unin
formed minds. On this important point a few
additional observations fliall be offered in a fu
ture paper —it may fuffice for the present just
to remark, that integrity and real ability arc more
frequently united than it is for the interest of
some persons toaliow—hencea suspicion of men
of talents is industriously circulated among the
people, by those who hope to find their account
in depreciating the utility of learning ; a more
fatal error cannot be adopted by freemen than
this, that learning, virtue ancj abilities, are pre
judical to the cause of Liberty and the Rights
of Men- C.
August 6, 1792,
Witneffcs.
Saturday, August 25, 17^2.
A PROCLAMATION
A. J. DALLAS, Sec'rvof the Commonwealth.
No. 11,
REPRESENTATIVES in CONGRESS.
97
GAZETTE. QF TH£ UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
WILL you be so kind as to favor us with
some explanation of t le circumstances
which attended tlie taking of a late Oath, in
vindication of the Secretary of State, which
appeared in your Gazette. Was it i'vrorn upon
the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God ?—Did
the vindicator kiss the ChriftianScriptures upon
the occation ?—Did he appear reverent —as one
who knew the worth and value of thole preci
ous records—and who was fenfi'oleof the danger
of a falfe appeal to God ?—-Did he seem to be
impreiTbd with the belief of a particular provi
dence, to animadvert upon falfe swearers* ?—
Or did he scruple the ule of the Scriptures in
| his oath of purgations, and clutfe rather to kiss
I the works of Voltaire, to whom certain pious
[heathens offer incense most devoutly since his
apotheofis?—Perhaps, indeed, he had recourse
to a more substantial patron, and saluted with
devout reverence the Secretary's learned Notes
upon Virginia; where he so wifely attempts to
refute the account of the deluge, which is evi
dently stated by Moses to be a miracle, by a re
currence to philosophical and merely natural
principles. If you can cast any light upon
this dark transaction, you will oblige a number
of your friend*, who consider the appeal to
Heaven, to which 1 allude, as inexpressibly ridi
culous, viewing as they do the character of the
gentleman whose vindication is intended, as
well as that of the vindicator.
I am, your humble servant,
An ENQUIRER.
* See the 36th number of the National Gazette—'
tvhere the belief of a particular providence is treated
as an impious tenet.
+ The cuflom of allowing people to purge themselves
by oath, is at this day retained in very Jew fyflems oj
jurisprudence. However, as the Editor of the National
Gazette appears to have a predileflion for the Church oj
Scotland (Tee his paper oj December 8, 1791) where it
is sometimes used, perhaps he embraced the practiceJrom
that refpeflable authority.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENT IN LL,
Mr. Russk l l,
BEING riifpofed to dojufticetothe Manufac*
-xutcs of -the-country, aiwi knowing ytrur dis
position to promote so defirablc an object, I wish
you to publish the following fa£ls, See.
That in the month of Oilober, 1790, I purchas
ed a quantity of fail cloth of the Bolton Manufac
ture, which I have used on hoard the ship Eliza,
and performed two circuitous voyages from this
port to Charleston, (S. C.) arid Europe, and the
fails are now in so good a Hate, as in my estimation
to be fully equal to any new fails made of Ruflia
Duck, although no expense has accrued thereon
since they were made. JOSEPH TILDEN.
EXTRACTS.
" IT is a very popular opinion, that all things
were made for the use of man. According to
this idea, he may cut and carve the good things
of this life, and fay, this nature gave to me,
and I may use it as I please. Wine, in its natu
ral state, has foine of the qualities of fpiritous
liquors, fuchas causing intoxication, andabrifk
circulation of animal fluids; but it is the quan
tity of brandy, which is put into modern wine,
that makes it poisonous.
" We might as well fay, nature made gun
powder for the use of man, as fpiritous liquors;
though Milton in his poem, introduces Satan,
as the inventor of that medley of combustibles.
If he had repre Tented the fame author, as the
firft distiller of spirits, I think it would have
been an improvement of the fubjeft, elpecially
as it is produced by the force of the very ele
ment he lives in, and partakes much of its na
ture, and there is no weapon he has handled
With more success in the misery and deftruttion
of the human race. It has been a practice of
some commanders to use this fiery liquid, to in
spire artificial courage; in this refpeft, gun
powder may be said to be inferior to rum.
(i After all that can be f«iid in favor of the
use of this bewitching poison, I am confident
that the person who has taken a draught, isren
dered less capable of withstanding the tempta
tion to a second. The greatest drunkards have
once abhorred the vice, and have formed relo
hitions to refrain from it, but from a fatal cu
riosity, and above all from afl'ociating withgrog
bruifers, he tries it, he finds it exhilerating—he
tries it again, and again, till it becomes cor.fti
tuttonal, and then—farewell to all EiTays of
" SOBER REASON/'
" GOD tempers the wind to the shorn lamb."
It is methinks, a fen ten ce which contains a sys
tem in itfelf—and it is replete with the quint
eflence of morality, religion and divinity—lt is
replete with morality, for example is cn all
hands allowed to be more influential than pre
cept, and it exhibits a view of the Lord of Uni
versal nature, bestowing such minute regards
upon the feelings of the family which his plastic
word had commanded into being, as to be at
tentive even to the wants of the bleating inno
cent, who, lliorn of its fleecy covering, stands
in need of the vernal zephyr which is then com
milTioned to move lo gently over the warm fur
face of his disrobed body.
[Whole No. 547.1
Foreign Affairs.
MADRID, Mav u
THE ftips which failed two years
ago, under 1 lie command of Don
Alexander Malalpina, ro make dilcti
veries on the Southern ooafis of Ame
rica, are arrived in good condition ac
Acapulco, in New-Spain,from whence
Don Malafpina means 10 proceed on
his voyage.
F U L D A, May 22.
His Prnffiati Majesty's Privy Coun»
fellor of Finances at Haerlem, is ar
rived at Caflel to establish magazines
in the environs of Marbourg for the
Pruflian troops, who in three weeks
will leave that city, to march towards
the Main. The barbers and thebutch
ers have received orders to furnifli
the provisions for that time.
The engineers have been to infpecft
the bridges over which those troops
are to pass, in order toalcertain whe
ther they will bear the weight of
large cannon.
BRUSSELS, June 4.
The main body of M. la Fayette's
army occupies pare of the territory
of Leige, extending towards Cliarle
rai. It is about 20,000 fhong—is re
ceiving daily reinforcements, and is
exercised in grand military evoluti
ons with great afliduity.
The French camp between Dun
kirk and Offend threatens Flanders,
which our generals seem to have left
naked, in order to concentrate their
fcrccs near Tournay, Mons, and Na
mnr. The camp de Halles is for
warding wi;h the greatefl possible ac
tivity ; it is intended to cover Pruf
fells 011 all fides, in cafe of an unex
pected defeat on the frontiers.
At home the revolution spirit is by
no means extin<ft. Every occasion is
eagerly laid hold of to inflame the
minds of the people, and it is only
by numerous patroles of troops scoUr
ing the (fleets night and day that in
furretftion is prevented. A great num
ber of fnfpetffed persons were appre
hended on the iff and 2d inffant and
sent to prison. For several days pa(f,
a body of free-boot ers,horfe and foot,
have infelfed the surrounding coun
try, and laid the villages under con
tribution. They are said to be nu
merous, and hourly encreafing ; some
HuflTars have be«n sent in purfuir of
them, but they are too well acquaint
ed with the country to be surprized.
HAGUE, June
In consequence of several persons
concerned in tlie forgery of Affignats
being discovered at Amfterdnm, M.
de Maulde,the new minister of Franee
to the States General, has presented
a memorial, demanding that the cri
minals, who are all Frenchmen,(hould
be apprehended, and delivered up to
France. The answer of the govern
ment is not yet known. He has like
vife presented a memorial on the
übjecft of the insult offered to the
''rench flag a few months since, to
vhich the answer is equally uncer-
tain.
Intelligence of rather an unplea
sant nature has been received from
the Dutqh fettleinents in the Eall-ln
dies. The war again ft the King of
Candia, in the island of Ceylon, con
tinues fiill with but little I'uccefs,and
is attended with great expense to the
company. The government of Bata
via, in consequence of the scarcity of
money, has been driven to thenecef
iity of levying the 50th Denier.
P A R I S, June 8.
Tilings in tbemfelves the mod: tri
vial, become of importance in such a
situation as ours. The Municipality
came to afefolution that no person
should be obliged to take any notice
of the procelfion oftheHoft, and liiac
no public force (hould be called oatto attend it. Tliis resolution, which
left every man to do as he pleased,
was represented as an intentional in
sult to the Catholic worship ; and
notwithflanding a heavy rain,the ce
retnony wasyeflerday more pompous
ly celebrated, great nuinber3 of the
troops of the line and national guards
attending, than if lio such resolution
had been palled.
The arrival of M. d'Orleansat Va
lenciennes having been made a pre
text for circulating a report among
the troops, that the greater part of
their officers meant to quit the ser
vice. Marshal Luckner gave out in
general orders, that he lliould consi
der all reports tending to produce
jealousy and disunion in the army as
a personal injury to himfelf—and that
he knew of but one party—the glory
of France, and the maintenance of
her conflitntion.
The Secretary for foreign affairs,
named Dumorier, threatened the
world with a relignation, when it was
in agitation to bring him to account
for the fix millions paid into his
hands for secret purposes, fnch as fo
menting discord and revolt in the
neighbouring countries. But when,
through the interference of his good
friend's, it was decreed that he might
do -what he pleased with the inconsi
derable sum, he condescended to re
main in office for thegtod oj his country.
Every time M. Chabot comes about
with hisimpeaching budget, the ears
of the auditory are wounded by in
decent expreflions, slanderous re
ports and criminal defamation,which,
in the reign of the law, would have
brought down condign punishment oil
the head of him who would have
dared to use them. On Monday he
accused almost all the honcft men in
the kingdom—his proofs, as he mo
destly called the infignificant firing
of evidence he adduced, were chief
ly colleiled froin anonymous letters,
the information of servants discharg
ed from refpetftable families, for va
rious difdemeanors ; drunken coach
men, and lazy footmen—he denoun
ced The Gazette UrtiverfA't as a dan
gerous libel ; (because it never Si
mulates to murther, or infurreiftion)
lie accused La Fayette, Rochambeau,
and the deceased General Dillon, as
friends to a Counter-Revolution, &c.
—Though hooted by his brethren,
his documents were re.ferred to a
committee, those excepted which cri
minated the Generals, now at the
head of the army. I fliall only fay
one word more of mailer Chabot—it
was moved by a member of his own
party, that he fliould be sent to pri
son, if not to bedlam.
Gen. Arthur Dillon has been once
more to the aflembly to solicit justice
for the memory of his departed re
lative i he was accompanied by Chau
roont who begged permiflion to be
present on the day of the report, he
afl'ured them he would prove that his
Gen. was all bravery, goodness, ho
hour and talents ; the petitioners
were received with diftin<slion.
Lettsrs from Tournay, May 29.
The French 3000 in number, at
tempted to take by aflault a chapel,
called Notre-dame-de-Bon-fecours—
which is said to be rich. The Prince
of Ligne was informed of it, and re
solved to defend it with 800 grena
diers. Having chosen a very strong
station, he obliged the besiegers to
retire, with some confufion. The
Prince look advantage of it, pursued,
killed 4c, and took 12 pri Toners, with
some field pieces and provisions.
M. Chabot a member of the Na
tional Aflembly attempied to enter
the terrace of Keuillans with a Tword
cane, and was disarmed by the cen
tinel Rationed there, who had posi
tive orders so to do.
In his anger at the supposed insult,
which was owiugto a prudential re
gulation of police, he wrote the fol
lowing infelent letter to the King.
" That the King of the French
should prohibit entrance into his pa
lace to perfens armed, the writer
would think a precaution juftified by
the distrust to which the conduct of
the court has given rife. But to cause
to be disarmed, nt the entrance of a
garden, public in its nature, or by the
permission of the proprietors, cause
a reprefentativeof the fovereigu, sole
proprietor of that garden, to'be dis
armed, is insulting to the nation,
and of a piece with that Aoftrian fy*
tem which tends to debase the Ns
tional Aflembly. Thefubfcriberhop«&
the King of the French will give or
ders that his cane be returned, and
will take away a centinel insulting
to the people we represent.
(Signed) F. Ch a bot, Deputy."
NATiO.NAL ASSEMBLY, June 5.
The Hector of St. Germain l'Aux
errois invited the Aflembly to affitl
by a deputation at the procelfion of
the Hofl on Thursday. An order
was made to this effeifi, which was no
sooner pad than several members mov
ed that it ihould be reported, or in
other words, revoked. On the other
[fide it was said, that to revoke this
oruer would be to declare that they
had completely set aside the national
religion ; and it was agreed that the
Aflembly Ihould not fit on Thursday,
that every member might be at liber
ty to attend such religious ceremony
as he thought proper.
M. Arthur Dillon appeared at the
bar, and requested a f'peedy report on
the papers before the committees, in
proof of the innocence and patriotism
of his unfortunate relation viho was
murdered at Li fie.
The numbering of afligngts was
fliewn to be no check to counterfeit
ing, and the expence of it was calcu
lated to amount to near 560,000 li
vres on the large affignats, and to
upwards of 2,000,000 on the fmair.
It was proposed, instead of this mode
of proceeding, to divide them simply
into series, this way ; —2OOO affignats
of the series of 2 livres, 10 sols, and
so on, down to the affignats of 10 sols.
This was adopted.
At twelve, the order of the day
was taken up,—the discussion on the
Auftrim Committee. Mr. Chabot as
cended the tribune to prove the ev
idence of this conspiracy againfl the
conflitution- [A sketch of this speech
would be lengthy, uninterefling, and,
to us, in agreat degree unintelligible.
The French Editor concludes his ac
count of the speech, as follows
All the facfls, all the letters, all the
depositions brought forward by the
orator prove at least, that there are
ill intentioned people, great crimes
unpunished, criminals that ought to
be prosecuted and be made to feel the
severity of the law.— But ft ill one
would ask, Where are the guilty ?
Where are the members of the Au
llrian committee ? We would wifli
to hear their names, —to fee them
Where are they ?
The difcufiion was interrupted by
Mr. Servan, who came to thank the
aflembly for the confidence they had
(hewn him, and to communicate a
project which he conceived eflential
to the fafety and tranquility ofFrance.
A decree commands a repetition of
the ceremony of the federation 011
the 14th of July in each year. M.
Servan proposed a general federation
on the next 14th of July, at which
deputations from the National Guards
of the whole kingdom should aflift,
and then, that they should be organ'
ized and aflift in securing the tran
quility of the capital. Referred to
the committee of legislation and pub
lic inftrmfiion.
We this moment received a letter,
dated Rome, May 16, from which we
extract what follows.
" The Holy Father returned to
this city three days after that fixed
for his return. He is arrived in per
fect health. It is impossible to des
cribe the joy of all ranks at his fafe
arrival : He was, in a manner, car
ried in triumph to the Vatican.
During the Pope's journey, a
Frenchman, in a fn.all fifherman's
canoe, was landing near the Pontini
marshes. The centinel potted there
alked the traveller who he was, and
whither he was going. An answer
was refufed, and feme refinance at
tempted. The soldier fired, and
wounded him in the legs. The tra
veller fell, was taken and sent to
rerrac.ne. He was searched— much
go.d, silver, bills of exchange and o
ther papers were found about him.
A surgeon, who speaks French, was
brought to dress his wound. Burn
he to the surgeon, burn all my
tZr'iuVA rewarj takcas nuch of
that gold and silver aj you w; y/. The
urgeon communicated the proposal
to the civil authority, and the French
man is lmprifbned
98
LONDON, June ij.
The German Princes of the circles
Alsace and Suabia have decreed,
that no interruption on account of
the war, (hall be given to the com
merce of France with their States.
The Eletftor of Cologn has demand
ed of the States of his Electorate the
I'ubfidies necellary for supporting his
quota of troops in the army of the
Empire, but they have absolutely re
fufed them.
In the Jacobin Club is a man called
La Croix who made the following
motion the day before yelterday :
Takeaway the fcmalt Aujlrtan and
\piit all the Generals in pr'tfon /"Chabot
was Chairman, and thus anrvvered
him—" Your motion is rather (trong,
my friend, withdraw it for the mo
ment, but don't lose it."
The remnanis of antiquity—curi
ous Hones—lllolaic pavements —pre-
cious sculptures—even entire apart
ments with their furniture, all in
high preservation,• found lately at
Borghefe, in Italy, are daily conveye4
to Rome. It is no longera doubt that*
the above are the relics of the ancient
city of Gabie, which was swallowed
up by an earthquake.
The affairs ot France, to the hap
piness of the friends of the boman
race, are mending apace. The Elec
tor of Treves speaks friendly to the
cause of Liberty. The Swift Cantons
do the fame, and the King of Pruflia
has been warned of the consequence
of opposing the Rights of Man.
The last accounts from Vienna stat
ed, that 70,000 Rnilians had enteied
Poland.
The minister is dreadfully alarmed
left Mr. Paine should write such a
letter to him as he has addreil'ed to
Mr. Secretary Dundas ; we cannot
easily conceive that if he does, Mr.
Pitt will not know bow to answer it !
On the 1 jth of May, M. Chalons,
the French Ambaflador at the Court
of Portugal, delivered M. Pinto, the
Portuguese Minister, the declaration
of war by the French nation against
the King of Hungary and Bohe
mia. The Minister returned
for answer, that this court vsiihed
well to the tranquility of the French
nation, and that of the King of Hun
gary, and that he was authorised to
assure the French Ambaflador of the
mod strict neutrality on the part of
Portugal.
The health of the Queen was ftil
unsettled, but Dr. Willis had greai
hopes of her recovery.
Many Diflenters fay, that Mr. Fox
has gone fufficient lengths in their
favor. They approve (to use their fa
miliar way of talking of their friend)
of Tom Paine's book in toto. Now
Mr. Fox has spoken decidedly againlt
it—so that, although he has fljewn
his dexterity at coalitions, he must
" outdo his ulual outdoings," topre
ferve their political confidence.
God alone is the author of reason ;
[no sublunary power therefore, whe
ther under the shape of camps or can
nons can blot it out from the great
book of fate, which so many earthly
kingdoms are reading at this moment.
Prejudices and tyrants are, neverthe
less, both very ltrong, and cannot be
expe&ed to lose their hold suddenly.
It is an acknowledged fa<ft, that
every thing new is alarming to the
ignorant and the prejudiced.
Thus we hear the doctrine of the
Rights of Man condemned by those
who are incapable of underltanding
its sublimity, and abused by men iii
power who thrive by the ignorance
of the former description of persons.
With all the noile and noiifeiife a
bout pro fee u ting Mr. Paine, we hear
nothing of ihe atto»*ney-general hav
ing received orders to prosecute Mr.
Burke for a libel on the conltitution,
or on Mr. RoPe for corrupt interfer
ence in the Weftminlter election.
Friday two ftiip loads of French
officers arrived at Dover from France.
1 hey take out their pafi'- ports for
England, and hence take their paf
lage to Oftend, to join the emigrant
army. °
1 he Duke of York displays won
derful activity of body. His high
ness is at a review in the morning, at
races in the afternoon, at a Carlton
house dinner in the evening, and at
a Buckingham house ball tt night.-
liincescnn out-do common people
in such things, 'tis plain.
TRIAL OF MR. HASTINGS
On Saturday Mr. Dallas be<r an
sum up the evidence on the R,„
charge. He, with great ability
in elegant language, went info ,K.
leading features of Bulwant Sin •
conduct, and demonftratively nr V
that instead of that Zemindar bei
a friend to the Bri.ifh govern,*" s
he was .tsgreatelt enemy . his int ,''
tion being molt evidently to c »r a
the whole of the British army
The learned Counsel went at l a ,„
into the business ; an d where a „ 0 8 '
portunity offered, displayed his t \\
.quence with fine efe<ft on his auditors
He besought their Lordlhij.s t0 trv
Mr. Hafhngs not by the weight of/
bilities that brouglit forward th"
charge, but by the lawsofimmutable
justice and to alk their own | IMrt<
did he or did he not ast hoileftlv >
nobly bravely, and prudently i n th *'
critical moment when a finkinu em
pire was to be raved.' Washetolwk
to Great-Britain for succours when
Great-Britain had the powers of
trance, Spain, America and Holland
to contend with ? Was he to wait for
inftrticftion at a time when the delay
of a moment would rob us of every
valuable possession in India ? Sure
not. Common sense, natural n ru .
dence forbade it.
What he did was right, and hs
mould venture to fay, if it was wrong
Mr. Hastings alone was not culpable
—The " black malignancy of mind"
■" The dark and deep malice of
heart" did not singly centre in the
bolom of Mr. Hastings.— Mr. Halt
ings had accomplicesequally entitled
to the full force of these epithets, so
liberally bestowed by the honorable
Managers—Sir Eyre Coote,M.r. Whee
ler, and Mr. Francis, all came under
the full force and meaning of the
word accomplices to Mr. Hastings'
guilt : together they must stand, to
gether they must fall.
Mr. Dallas pursued this idea to its;
extent, and dwelt upon it with full
force of argument : after which he
went extensively into the condntfof
Cheyt Sing, and continued speaking
until five o'clock when the court
broke up.
In compliance with the Petition of
Mr. Hastings to his Majelty, the House
of leers will continue to fit, it is laid,
on the trial in Westminster-Hall, and
fee the end of Mr. Hastings' defence
on the present charge, during the
present felfion.
Extract of a letter, dated Egra (Bohemia) Hi] 26,
" By the time yon' receive this letter; Arch
duke Charles will be at the army of the Diikr
of Saxe-Techin. He is the bearer of inJmc
tions which will give new- activity to the ope
rations of the army in Brabant.
I "As to the Imperial crown, you may red
aflured that it will be placed on the head of the
King of Hungary, and that the ceremony of
the coronation will take ulace at Frankfort
from the 3d to the Bth of July.
" Then, and at that time, there will be a
grand and last committee, who will take iinal
measures to restore to France a government,
tranquility, and to annihilate the feed l ; of an
archy which have done you so much inifchief."
N E W-YOKK, Aiiguft 17.
At a meeting of the Truitees of Co
lumbia College held at the College
Hall, on Monday the 9th day of
July, 1792.
The board proceeding to ihe elec
tion of officers ; the following gen
tlemen were by balloting unanimoul
ly elected, to wit :
Dr. Johan Chriftoff Kurtzii, profeflor
of the Oriental Languages.
I)r. Samuel Latham Mitchell, profef
for of Natural History, Chywiftry,
Agriculture and the other arts de
pending thereon.
Dr. Samuel NicoH profeflor of tlie
practice of Physic ; and,
Mr. Viletre de MarccHin, profellor
of the French Language.
Extras from the minurcs.
ROBERT HARPUR, Clerk.
BOSTON, August 16.
On the 2d of June last, the house of Mr. Na
thaniel Reed, of Rehoboth, Maflachnfetts, T
some accident took fire, and was immediate y
consumed, the chimney and cellar walls fe in
ruins together. A noble spirit of sympathy or
the diftrefTed operated at this time on the in
bitants, who, under the dire&ion of Meiirs. a
bin, Bourn and Perrin, went to work, a" m
14 days, by their spirited and furpri/ingexer
tions, the cellar walls were built u P"" a .
frame put thereon—a beautiful stack of c
neys erected—the house well inclosed and <an
Jbraely fini/hed and painced. — Jay the .anic
'nevolent spirit that moved and an ' in2te ">
people, ever prevail through the land w
ftroyiag conflagrations rage.Philadelphia, Aug. 25.
\Ve have authority to inform the public, that
a second Loan, at four per cent, interest, has
been lately effe&ed in Europe, for account of
the United States. The sum is equal to the
amount of the former Loan, 3,000,000 of
Guilders, or about 1,200,000 Dollars.
By a Boston paper we learn, that the Hon.
Mr. Gerry declines a re-eledion for the next,
Congress.
By a proclamation of Governor Telfair, it
appears that John Milled gf., Esq. is chosen a
representative in the House of Reprelentatives
«f the United States to lill the vacancy in the
JEaftern Diftritt of that State.
Tn last Saturday's Gazette, it was mentioned
that intelligence had been received at Pittl
t)urgh, that several parties of Indians were ap
proaching the frontiersof WeftmorelandCounty:
Sublequent accounts, received by the Pittsburgh
post of yesterday, fay, that nolndiau trails were
discovered, and that the trails seen were those
of Militia from that County, out on a tour of
duty.
A soldier by the name of Hugh McLaughlin,
was hanged at Pittiburgh last Monday week,
for desertion and horse-stealing.
Accounts from the Weft-Indies mention a
heavy gale of wind having happened about the 3d
and 4th of August, which did much damage at St.
Martins and the adjacent places.
Several French pafTengcrs arrived in the Hannah,
Capt. Stobo, from Havie-de-Grace.
Some of the stones of which the' walls of the
Baftile were composed have been fold in Boston
at auction, at a penny an ounce.
A young woman named Eleanor Mackay was
accidentally drowned last Monday evening, at
High-Street wharf, in fight of several fpefta
tars ; she was taken up as soon as grapplipgs
could be procured for the purpose, which was
near half an hour after she fell into the water—
every exertion was made to produce resuscita
tion, but without effect.
The bodies of two men were taken out of
the river on Sunday and Monday last—the j 11-
ries of inquest on both cases, brought in, acci
dental death.
In a pocket of one of the raen, was a letter
signed Joseph Wilson, addressed to Mr. John
Pater son.
In the Supreme Court of the United States,
at their late feflion in this city, the Attorney-
General, in his official capacity, and of his own
mere motion, applied fbr a mandamus to the
circuit courts of Pennsylvania, to proceed un
der the pension law paired a£ the last feflion of
Congress.
That law, it will be remembered, imposes
certain duties on the federal judges, which the
circuit courts of Pennsylvania and New-York
judged unconstitutional, and which the firft en
tirely refuted to execute'.
The firft question that arose was independent
of the main question, viz.—Whether it was part
of the duty of the Attorney-General of the
United States, to superintend the decisions of
the inferior courts, and if to him they appeared
improper, to move the supreme court for a re
vision.
Opinions were much divided.
In fayorof the Attorney-General's exercising
. this power, the following are the heads of the
principal arguments insisted on:—The analogy
between the nature of that office here and in
England—That part of the judiciary ast which
gives the Attorney-General a fuperintendance
over the courts of the United States in the
courts of justice, which, giving latitude to the
word concern, brought the cafe within the power
granted by the law ; and the Attorney-General
being the only officer of the supreme executive
to whom the constitution gives a fuperintend
ance over the execution of all the laws of the
Union.
Against this opinion it war, alledged, that the
analogy drawn was not found, but rather dan
gerous y that the latitude given to the word
concern, would tend to give that officer a right,
officially, to interfere in any law controversy
between citizen and citizen, as the United States
were concerned in feeing justice done in every
cafe—and that as the ast of the Attorney-Gene
ral was not within his ordinary duty, it would
require special authority from the supreme ex
ecutive to eftablifli its propriety.
These were the principal heads of the argu
ments used. The discussion was -full, and the
bench divided on the question. Judges Iredell,
Johnson, and Blair, declaring in favor of the
Attorney-General, and Judges Wilfon,Culhing,
and the Chief Justice, entertaining the contrary
opinion. ,
This equal division was fufficient to rejefl
the mode of proceeding Mr. Randolph firft
adopted, who then started an another ground,
as counsel for a petitioner \yho had been unfuc
cefsful in his application to the diftritt court
of Pennsylvania.
His motion, after being accompanied with
the reafoas which influenced him to believe
that the inferior court') had erred, was post
poned for a final decision until the next court.
Fed. Gat.
A droll adventure lately happened near St. Car
los, in Italy.— A Frenchman discoursing with feme
bricklayers' labourers, at the palace of Fiano, de
plored the wretchcdnefs of their condition, amidst
io many rich princes and prelates, and highly com
mended the system of equalization established in
Trance ; when one of the labourers suddenly in
terrupted him, and lifting up his tray of wet mor
tar, olaced it on the Frenchman's head, laying,
4i Let us here try your system of equality; I car
ried up the last tray, do you carry up this." The
Frenchman being decently dreflTed, was heartily
enraged at the compliment, and got away as well
as he could to complain of the insolence. Fie was
Heartily laughed at; and it isfaid that he has since
left the town.
FOREIGN ABSTRACT
In conference of the declaration of war, the
Rullian AmbafTador was to quit Wariaw in a
few days. The King of Poland is to commarjt.
the army of the Poles in person.
Prussia.is arming, but her troops it is fufpe&<-
ed are destined against Poland.
The King of Bohemia it is said claims from
the Court of London the guarantee of the Ati
ilrian Netherlands.
Mr. Paine has published a long letter to Mr.
Dundas, one of the Britifti Secretary' ~ of State
—occasioned by some ftriftures which fell from
him and other members of the Honle of Com
mons on his Rights of Man—this letter, after
some preliminary remarks, iv a recapitulation,
of part of his second publication.
It appears that a fcbesne.vva.s in agitation in
Paris, at the date of the account?, and a de
cree had pa(lbd the National Aifembly at the in
stance of M. Servan, lace : tinifter of War, to
form an encampment of men in the en
virons of that city.—The people were much
div ided on the fubjt ct —and petitions remon
strances and add idle; pro and con were pre-
Tented to the Anembly by large bodies of per
sons. .
Lorcf Hood, it is reported, is to be appointed
pove: nor of Jamaica.
Ivr.tfie Nhtien's Gazette of last Wednesday, it
is laid u That some members of the Senate, a",
well as of the House, fold the permanent resi
dence for the alfumption, and the alfumption
for the residence."
What a different spirit is discovered in the
following extract. N. B. The above slander
is anonymous.
Robert Rutherford, Ffq. is a candidate for the re
presentation in Congress of the Dijlrift which Alex
ander White, Ffq has hitherto reprejented.—ln
the Potowmack Guardian of 6th injl. appeared an \
Addrefsy signed a Farmer ; the following extract
from Mr, Whitens answer on the 13th, will explain
the motives of competition : thistxtraft, is highly in
terejlifig, as it fetves to explain and set in a fair
and candid point of view, several travfactions which
have been miflated andgrojily mifr.epi efented :
16 Mr. Farmer fay*, that by the aiTumption
of the State debts, Virginia lias loft. near a mil
lion of money, and that I could have prevented
it.—To which I answer—that the assertion is
totally unfounded—that Mr. Rutherford, with
all his knowledge of the affairs of this State and
of the Union, cannot produce documents to
give it the semblance of truth.—On the con
trary, more than one third of the interest of
the State Debts is done away, and the remain
der thrown into a channel which puts it out of
the power of (heriffs to vilit and diftrefsthe peo*
pie—the great reduction of taxes at the fame
time that ample provision is made for all the
exigencies of government, confirms this afler
tion. I could not have prevented the parage
of the ast, the majority was such that m v vote
would not have affected the question in
stage of the bufmefs. I mention this only to
shew the little attention Mr. Farmer pays to
truth. —I am wjljing to give fmtlier trxplaiia-.
tions on this and all other fubjefts to every can
did inquirer—but I make no apology—least of
all that which Mr. Farmer makes for me, be
cause the Journals of Congress would teftify
'against me.—The Northern Members never
con fen ted that the feat of government ,/hould
be 011 the Potowmac—not a member voted for
that bill whole local interest did not lead him
to do so ; and several of the Southern Member*,
those too, who were moil felicitous to obtain
the aftumption, voted again ft it. I agree that
the Federal City is situated where it ought to
be—but if you will take the trouble to calculate
the proportion between the inhabitants North
and East of the Potowmac, and those South and
Weft of it, you will find the question will not
appear so lelf evident as Mr. Farmer supposes.
In fact it required unremitted attention and
great Legislative abilities to carry that mea
sure, and I do not hefrate to fay, that the Vir
ginia delegation deserved the grateful thanks
of their country for their exertions on the oc
casion."
Extrafls Jrorn Mr. Paine's letter to Mr. Secretary
Dundas—London, Jfune 6. j
" The expence of all the several depart
ments of the General Representative Govern-!
ment of the United States of America, extend
ing over a space of country nearly ten times larg
er than England, is two hundred and ninety-.]
four thousand, five hundred and fifty-eight dol
lars, which at 4s. 6d. per dollar, is 66,275!. Us.
sterling, and is thus apportioned.
Expence of the Executive Department.
The Office of Presidency at which
thePrefident receives nothing for
himfelf,
Vice-Prciident,
Chief Justice,
Five Aflociate Juftrces,
Nineteen Judges of Diftri&s and At
torney-General,
Legijlative Department.
Members of Congress at fix dollars
(11.75.) per day, their Secreta
ries, Clerks, Chaplains, Mellen
gers. Door-keepers, tkc.
Treafv ry Department.
Secretary, Afliftants, Comptroller,
Auditor, Treasurer, Register, &"
Loan-Office-keeper,ineach State,
together with all neceflary Clerks,
Olfice-Keepers, &c. 12,825 o
Dfpartment oj State including foreign Affair Si
Secretary, Clerks, &c. &c. 1,426 5
Department of War.
Secretary, Clerks, Pay mafters,Com
miflioner, &rc. 1,562 10
Commiflioner for fettling old accounts.
The whole Board, Clerks, See. 2 >59& *5
Incidental and contingent expences.
For Fire Wood, Stationary, Print
ing, &c.
Total
99
On account of the incurf.ons of the Indians
o: f e jck settlements, Congress is at this
'■<. to keep Ax thouiand militia in pay,
:1 'x'Jit.on to a raiment of foot, and a battal
,ui o.' uKrv, viiich it always keeps; and
tliiintreaie t;e txpence of the war depart
ment t ) 330,000 dollars, which is 87,795!. iterl.
b'at when peace ihall be concluded with the In
dians, the greatest part of the expence of go
vernment, including that of the army, will not
amount to one hundred thouiand pounds itcr
linjr, which, as has been already stated is but an
eighteenth part of the expences of the Englilh
government.
I request Mr. Adam and Mr. Dundas, and all
Hpfe who are talking of constitutions, and
leflings, and Kings, and Lords, and the Lord
nows what, to look at this flatement. Here
: a form ahd system of government, that is fcxjt
er organized and better administered than any
government in the world, and that lor less than
)ne hundred thousand pounds per annum, and
yet every member of Congress receives, as a
compensation for his time and attendance on
public business, one pound seven fliillings per
day, which is at the rate of nearly five hundred
pounds a year."
It appears from the foregoing extra&s, that
Mr. Paine does not think lb badly either of the j
constitution, or of the adminijlration of the go-;
vernment of the United States, as our reformers
at home—he expressly pronounces that govern
ment not only to be tetter organized, but better
sdminijltred than any government in the world.
That gentleman is in a situation to fee the af
fairs of this country impartially. Well inform
ed of what has been done, and at a diftancefrom
the factions which are among us, he judges from
f&Rs and their confequevces, unwarped by the pas
sions of rivalfhip, which are so apt to discolour
objedts, and give them a falfe appearance. The
authority of Mr. Paine on this it is
prelumed will have weight,with the clamourers.
COMMUNICATIONS.
The enemies of government affect to be afraid
of the arbitrary power of Congrels. They
tremble to fee every thing depend on a loose
cjifcretton which is not tied down by the constitu
tion and fixed unalterable principles of law and
reason. They abhor the funding system also.
Mark their inconsistency. They would keep
the public creditors dependent on yearlygrants—
why?—to prevent a great monied interest con
nected with government. Would not their
plan, however, produce this connexion in its
worst form ? by creating and continuing an en
tire dependence of the certificate holders on
the majority of the two houses. Let the ex
ample of the states decide the point.
Further, these consistent fault-finders would
have had Congress aflume an unlimited power;
over the debt—and give much or little to.the j
creditors, and divide that too with the original j
holders, in such proportions as they in their dif-l
cretion should deem proper. What beeomes of
the arbitrary discretion of Congress in this af
fair? Would not these second-sighted men, who
spy iniquity in public faith and justice, and the
danger of arbitrary power in governing by fixed
and equal laws, which regard rights and not
persons, would not they have been the firft to
cry out, Congress is more dejpotic than the Grand
Turk—they have despised their plighted Jaith —they
have dijhonoured the nation-~they pretend to be above
law and right.
As Congress took the plain old path which
the old Congress pointed out, the Prelident fo-l
leninly recommended in his public addreires, 1
and all America expected, the style of accusa
tion mult be conformed to what they have done.
For to certain people who are hunting for
faults, nothing is more acceptable than to find
game—yet, even if they miss it, they must fire
off their pieces.
The United States, while provinces, used to
boast of their liberty, and justly; which of them
had a charter so favorable to the equal rights
of men as the conftitutionoftbe United States ?
Yetaparty is trained to abuse those men as ene
mies of a free government, who are disposed to
carry that constitution, and the laws palled un
der its authority, into effedt.
With one voice, the patriots and pliilofophers
of Europe call on government for duties to
check the immoderate ule of spirituous liquors.
The order of things seems, in our country, to
be inverted. Men, pretending to be both pa
triots and philosophers, condemn the excise.—
The use that some persons make of the unpopu
larity of the worA-excifcy shews how much better
some quack philosophers love power, than their
country or the sciences.
/' :P
5,625 o
1,125 o
In sober times men attend only to fa&s. But
when they get carried away by their palfions,
very often those things make themoft impreflion
which have the least foundation. The imagi
nation, when disturbed, always paints bigger
than the life—Fancy peoples her own creation
with nothing less than giants. Besides, things
which do not admit of proof, cannot on the
other hand be disproved. They take pofleffion
of the mind, and not unfrequently when good
sense is disposed to come home again, it is re
fufed admittance. The junto, therefore, who
wifti to prepare the people for the talk they are
ready to undertake of demolishing all (they com
plain of all) that the new government has set
up, very properly address themselves to men's
paflions. What topic'for inflaming the multi
tude against the laws and the law-makers has
been left untried! The angry, the proud, the
jealous and the weak, are all addrefled. Twice
a week they conjure up evil spirits from the
dark to haunt the (ick imagination. But the
found sense of an enlightened nation, poifeffing
every privilege, and deserving what it poiTeffes,
clifllpates the fantaftic fliadows of party delu
sion, as the waking faculties scatter the visions
of a disturbed sleep.
903 o 1
8,937 >o
3,837 15
25,5[5 o
4,036 1.61
66,275 11
For the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
THE NATION'S GAZETTE.
A PARODY
D UP'D as the greatest fooi is he,
1 he man who pins his faith on thee ;
Whole columns lies and Gander swell,
And a long lift of woe* foretell,
Whate'er you touch—its hue is ehang'd ;
The order of the world derang'd—
And wretched trash, from
Would bring old Anarch's reign again
'Tis this lhat makes your page so fadv—
At times—your readers fay you'ie mad—
They're sure you do not count.the colt,
Subfcribcrs gone—and money loft.
The world grows tir'd—your carping crew,
Alas, presents them nothing new ;
Old lies, new vamp'd, alone abound,
Lies frnok'd by all the country round
With antifederal fluff they're vext,
With dismal propheftes perplext;—
For this, your readers will not pay—
You'll fret—then quit—alack-a-day !
Di ed on Saturday last, after a short but painful
illness, Mr. JOSEPH FEW, of this city; a Wor
thy and ufeful citizen ; who, since the revolution
(in which he took an a&ive part as an officer ct
our army) hath employed himfelf in bringing to
I great pcrfeftion a number of ufeful mjnufa£tories
and valuable inventions for the benefit of this
country, and, we hope, for the emolument of his
virtuous aud amiable widow, family and fortune.
He was the firft that patronized, and brought to
ufeful application, Mr. James Rumfty's patented
improvement of Dr. Barker's rototary water-wheel,
by which power he was enabled, under a very
light fleam of water, to conftruft a variety of valu
able machinery for the manufa&uring of muftatd,
{larch hair-powder, tobacco, fnufr, chocolate,
fhclled and pearl barley, split peas, &c. See. all of
of which fcvcral articles, were carried on in an
extensive fort, without any patronage from public
authority. Pun&ual and just in his dealing—hu
mane and liberal to the poor—Warm and ileadv
in his friencifhip, and a flcady patron of all ufeful
inventions or improvements, it may be truly said,
that the inhabitants of Philadelphia and citizens of
the United States, have loft in him one of their
mod valuable citizens. He was interred in the
Friends' Burying-Ground (of which he profefTed
himfelf a member) on Sunday evening, followed,
by a refpe£table and large number of his fellow
citizens.
A man, more defireable to man, hath fcldotn
left us !
Died, lafl Saturday, on board the fchooncr
Friendship, Capt. WelHi, from Charleston, Mr.
Wi l li am Bsnton, a young man who had lately
gone to visit the state of South-Carolina, and was
returning to Philadelphia, when he was seized with
the sickness which occasioned his death.—Mr.
Benton was a native of Conne£licut.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Molly, Lager, Cape-Francois
Snow Minerva, Hedley, Scarborough, in distress
Brig Adventure, Lifs, Montferrar
Kitty, M'Allitter,
Cadet, Grafton,
Swallow, Cheefman,
Le Sage, Hennequier,
Hathaway,
Welfli,
Crosier*
Nancy,
Schr. Friendship,
Sans Souci,
M'Alpine,
Hill,
Huffey,
Salter,
Dolphin,
Sloop Fraucis,
Hope,
Mary,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 22f
3 per Cents, 13/
Deferred,
Full /hares Bank U.»S. 49 per cent, prcra.
£ iharcs, 61 62
WANTED—TO RENT,
From the last of October next,
#3" A convenient House, in or near the centre oj
the City.—Enquire of the Editor.
100 Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cambridge Common, Massachusetts,
on the alternoon of the ißch ult. a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK, with a steel clasp, containing
a number of valuable papers, among which were
the following Public Securities, viz.
Maflaclmfetts State Notes— No. 2,425, dated
December 1, 1782, payable to Thomas Greenwood,
for £'.23 i6j. principal— No. 22,399, dated Ja
nuary 1, 1785, payable to Nathaniel Partridge, for
£.\o 10s. principal.—No. , dated January
1, 1782, (an army note) payable to Timothy How
ard, tor £ . 8 Bj. id. principal.—No. , a Note
(the number, date, and to whom payable, not
known) for £.3 oj. 3d. principal.—One Indent
Certificate for Four Dollars, and a New-Hamp
shire Certificate lor about £. 12 payable to Joha
and Dankl Jenks ; also a number of Notes of Hand,
one of which was for /..572 given by Nathan
Bond to Samuel IV. Pomeroy (by whom it was en
dorsed) dated Ift May, 1792, and payable on the
1 ith August following ; the others were all pay'a
bie to the Subfcribrr. The Securities are checked
at the different offices from whence they were
lffued, and the Notes of Hand by the different
signers, ihey can therefore be of no use to any but
the owner.
'The Subfcribcr hereby offers a reward of One
Hundred Dollars to any peilon or persons
who has found the fame, and will return them to
him, or leave them with the Printer hereof, and
uo questions will be asked.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Salem, MaJfachufetts, Ayguji 1, 1792. (eptf)
St. Croix
Guadaloupe
Boftou
returned in distress
St. Martin
Chai lefton
Virginia
Savannah
Montferiat
Nantuckct
St. EuitatiaNew-Brunswick
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circumstance, of a gentleman
who had undertaken lo difpofc of a propor
tion of the tickets in the New-Brnnfwick Church
Lottery, having, in hisopinion, rendered it incon
venient for him further to proceed in the sale
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
ets are' unexoefledlv returned to the Rector,
Church-Wardens and Veftry-min. This lays the
Managers under the necefiity of further adjourning
the drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of Oflober next, that they may have time to trans
mit these tickets to the pai ts of the state where they
ateapplicd for, and leceive the returns As there
are but few tickets besides these remaining on
hand, alt persons who are disposed to promote the
pious object of this Lottery, or to take a chance
for the ptizes therein, ate requested to fuppty them
selves by the firft of Oflober; and the gentlemen
appointed to dispose of them, are desired to return
those to the Managers which then remain unfold,
to answer the applications of some gentlemen in
the neighbourhood, who arc postponed to this re
foutce For a supply.—And notice is hereby given,
that the tickcts not returned to the Managers by
the eighth day of Oftobcr, will be considered as
at the rifle of the holders.
N. B. Robert Morris, Esq. of >Jew-B'unf
wicfc, is duly chosen one of the Managers of the
said Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law. (eptOi)
Certificates Loft.
MISSING, fin Kew-Jerfcy Certificates, ligncd
by Silas Coniifl, viz.
No. 740 for £. 75 o o
1978 11 9
7'5 100
3482 1 4 6
829
_ r..L t :i r. f
The fubfcribcr supposes the above Certificates
arc ftoleu. Whoever will discover the Thief, or
Certificates, and leave information at theTreafury
or Loan-Office in New-Jersey, or in the County
Collector's Office at Morris-Town, (hall be hand
somely rewarded by
Morris-Town,
New- Jcrfey> July 12, 1792,
SECURITIES.
SOLDIERS, Mariners, and militia men's pa\,
lands, and claims on the public,
SHARES, in the Banks, in the Canals,and Turn
pike Road,
CERTIFICATES, granted by the public, and
the old and late paper monies,
NOTES of hand, bills, bonds, and mortgages
with or without dcpofits,
BOUGHT, fold, or negotiated, at No. 2, in
Fourth-llreet below Market-street, by
FRANCIS WHITE,
Who trahfa£ls business in the public offices for
country people and oihers,by virtue of a power,
of attorney, or bv personal application.
PHILADELPHIA. (ttw6w)
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY.
Thomas james, wax chandler,
from London, refpe£lfnlly informs the public
that he has eftabliflied a Manufa&ory of the above
branch, at the upper end of Mulberry-Street,New-
Yoik, where Merchants, Captains of VefTels,
Druggists, and Families, may be supplied with
excellent and pure White Wax Candles, White
Wax in Cakes, Tapers, Wax'd Lamp Wicks,
Flambeaux, &c. warranted equal to any made in
London, and twenty percent, cheaper.
Orders in this and the adjacent States, received
bv Mr. John Goodeve, Bridge-Street, Mr.
William Frobisher, Fletcher-Street, and at
the Manufactory, where samples may be seen.
N. B. Bees-Wax taken in payment, or bleached
on moderate terms.
New-York, Jul/ 19, 1792,
Wm. cleland,
boston,
Tranfa&s business in the Funds of the United
States;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &:c.
(£3" Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality.
June 1. [ep\m & lazvzm)
American Lead Manufactory
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co
HAVEjuft now opened their Lead-Ware
house, two doors south of Walnut-street
Wharf,adjoiningtheir New Factory— where they
have now made, and ready for sale, a general
afTortmcnt of SHOT of all fizes,with SHEET and
BAR LEAD, the production of the Mines in
Virginia. As they have employed a number of
experienced Englifn workmen, they warrant it
to be equal in quality to any manufa&ored in
lEurope, and at a reduced price from the cost of
imported.
They also continue to manufa&ure all theabove
articles at Richmond, in Virginia. All orders
addressed to either of the above Fa&ories, will
be thankfully received,and executed on the short
est notice.
N. B. Wanted, indubious, sober, Labouring
Men, at the said Mines, where constant employ,
good wages, and other encouragements will be
g'ven, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
ForfurtherparticularsenquireofMeffrs. Moses
Austin& Co. at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or
as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. tf
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Of the very firft quality, and latest importation
from Canton, via >Jew-York, by retail, at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets
Bank of theUnitedStates.
RESOI-.VED,
THAT an office of Discount and Deposit, le
cltablifhed in the City of Richmond, Stateof
Virginia.
RESOI/VED,
That the 2d Tuefdav in September next be ap
pointed for the Election of Thirteen Dire&ors and
a Cathier, for the Office of Discount and Deposit,
in the City of Richmond.
HAS Removed his OFFICE lo No. 128 north
Second.Street, where he continues to purchase
and fell 011 Commiflion, Certificates of debt of the
United, and Individual States, Bank Stock, Canal,
and Turnpike Shares, &c. See.
(£3?* Subfcribcrs to the Uriiverfal Tontine who
have not yet received their Certificates are delirea
to call for them
July 18,
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-llreet, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to offer
his fcrvices to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with their business, may depend upon
having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other
part of the United States will be ftriftly attend
ed to.
Mav 2.
O 12 9
To be publ'fhed by Subscription^
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
JOSEPH LEWIS.
(iaw7w)
SECRET JOURNALS.
(For particulars, Jee Proposals at large.)
Subscriptions a»c received by the principal
Booksellers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
A Valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
containing 213 acres, whereof 47 are wood
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made ; the
cleared land is under good fence, and is well
adapted to *rafs, and there being so much meadow,
a large stock may be raised : it is also natural to
wheat, and a proper attention to a well-kept stock,
will much improve its quality, and be the most
profitable : it has a young orchard of 200 apple
trees, a variety of peach and cheriv trees, and a
large garden. There are on the premises a hand
some two (lory stone house and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza ; also, a good barn, with stabling,
cow-house, granary, waggon-house, work-shop,
and fmoak-houfe. The situation is high, pleasant,
and healthv, and affords some very agreeable pro
fpefts, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the main road to New-York, about a mile and a
half from Princeton, New-Jersey, and 43 from
this city. The title was examined and approved
by eminent council before thefubferiber purchased.
For further particulars apply to the fubferiber, at
No. 141, South Second-street, or at No. 81, South
Water-street, Philadelphia.
[cpjw]
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
N. B. Stock for the farm may be had of the pre
sent tenant.
Also, to be Sold, and entered immediately,
A two-llory Brick HOUSE and BAKE-HOUSE,
in Arch-ftrect, No. 23, 16 feet two inches in front,
and 102 feet in depth. Apply as above.
Ttilv 17,
A Number of LOTS in everv situation which
'V. may be r'efired in City of Washington,
will be offered for sale bv the Commiflioners, on
Monday the Bth day of O&ober next. One fourth
part of the money to be paid down, the residue in
three equal annual payments, with yearly inteieft
on the whole principal unpaid.
June 2, 1792,
Sixty Dollars Reward.
BROKE goal in Baltimore, the loth of April
last. and nude his escape.a Negro Man, named
BILL FLANAGAN, the property of the fub
feriber. He is a stout, straight likely fellow, about
-5 y rars "f 5 fret 8, 9or 10 inches high. He
affefta to be a zealous Methodic, is extremely art
ful, talkative and plausible ; ean read, and it is
supposed can write. He had on a failoi'j red cloth
jacket, a ftnped
and a pair of canvass trousers; he was barefooted.
It is not doubted he will alter his dreis, and ch;mpc
his name. He was lately the property of Cant.
Joseph Goutrou, of Baltimore, and was employed
as a sailor on board his packet ; and it is probable
may *ry to get on board fomc vclTel in capacity of
seaman.
It is fuppofi-il he is now in New-York or Phila
delphia ——Whoever takes up and secures said
Negro, so that the subscriber gets him again, (hall
rcceive Sixty Dollars reward, and reasonable
charges CHRISTOPHER HUGHES
Rg.'tnnire. i. ivpa. (taw 4 i)
-ST the JuURSAL of tUc I HIHD SEbslOS!
of the SEIfjITE of the UNITED STATES, may it
had oj the hereof.
By Order of the Prcfident and Director.«,
JOHN KKAN. Cafbirr,
Ebenezer Hazard,
STOCK-BROKER,
LEONARD BLEECKER.
■ (<•'•)
OR, PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old Con^rc^d,
From September 1774, to March 1789 ; —
An authentic and original collection of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c,
written during the late war;
And ex tracts from the
TO BE SOLD ;
(And pofleflion given immediately)
George-Town.
JOHN M'GANTT, Clerk
to the Commiflioners.
[eptfj
100
Treasury Department,
August 10, 1 792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next inclusive, f«i the supply ot all Rations
which may be required for the use of the United
States, from the fir ft day of January to the thirty
firft day of December, 1793, both days inclusive,
at the placet, and within the dillri&s hereafter
! mentioned, viz.
JULY 10, «792.
1. At any place or places betwixtYotk-Town &
Carlifle,in the state of Pcnnfylvania,and Pittsburgh,
and at Pittsburgh, York-Town and Carliflc.
2. At any p'-ce or places from Pittsburgh to the
mouth of Big Beaver Creek, and at the mouth of
Big Beaver Creek.
3. At anv place or olaccs from the said mouth to
the upper falls oi the said Big Beaver, and at the
upper falls.
4. At any rlace or places from the said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places from the said Mahoning
ovf* to the Head Navigation of the River Caya
-1 hoga, and at the said Head Navigation.
(ep.tf;
6. At anv place or places from the said Head Na
vigation to the month of ihe said River
and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt the month of ;
the Big Beaver Creek to the mouth of the River
Mufkingum, and up the said River to the Tufca
rowa«, and at the Tufcarowas, and thence over to
the Cayahoga River, and thence down the laid
River to its mouth.
8. At any nlace or places hetwixt the mouth of
the River Mufkingum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, and at the mouth of 'he said River Scioto.
9. At any place or places betwixt the mourh of
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the mouth of the Great Miami, and from thence
to the Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
10. At anv place or places wixt the mou'hof
the Grent Miami, up the said Miami to and at
Pique Town.
11. At any place or places from Fort Washington
to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
olace or places from Fort Hamilton co Fort St.
Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At anv place or places from Fort St. Clair to
Fort Jefferfon, and at Fort Jeffcrfon.
, 13. At anv place or places from Fort Jefferfon to
the field of aflion of the 4th of November, 1 791,
and at rhe said field of a&ion.
14. At anv place or places from the said field of
action to the Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
15- At anv place or places from t!»e said Miami
Villages to the Falls of the Miami River, whfch
empties into Lake Erie, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at its mouth.
16. At anv place or places from the mouth of the
said Miami River of Lake Erie toSaudufky Lake,
and at Sandufky Lake.
17. At any place or places from the said Sandulky
Lake to the mouth of the River Cavahoga.
18. At anv place or places from the mouth of the
said River Cayahog3 10 Prefque 1 fle, and at Prcfquc
Isle.
19. At any place orplaces from Prefque Isle to the
stream running into Lake F.rie from towards the
Jadaghque Lake, and thence over to and at the
said Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alleg
hany River to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place or places fromPrefquelfle toLe
Beuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or places from I.e Beuf to Fort
Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and from thence
to Pittsburgh.
22. At any place or placesfrom the Rapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of the Wabafh River, and from
the mouth of the said Wabafh River to the mouth
of the River Ohio.
23. At anv place or places on *he East fide of the
River Mifliflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the Illionois River.
24. At any place or places on the East fide of the
Mifliflippi, between the mouth of the Ohio and
the River Margot inclusively.
25. At any place or placcs from the said River
Margot to the River Yazous inclusively.
26. At any place or places from the mouth of the
said Wabafh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fort
Knox.
27. At any place or places from Fort Knox, up
the said Waba(h, to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
28. At any place or places from Ouittanon,up the
said Wabafh, to the head navigation of a branch
thereof called Little River, and at the said head
navigation of Little River.
(Vntf)
29. At any placc or places from the said brad na
vigation of Little River over to the Miami Village.
30. At anv place or places from the mouth of the
River TencfTte to Occochappo or Bear Creek, on
the said River, inclusively.
31. At any place or placesfrom the mouth of the
River Cumberland to Nalhville, on the laid River,
and at Nashville.
And at any place or places within thirty miles
jof said Nalhville to the Southward, Wellward or
j Northward thereof.
Shouid any rations be required at any places, or
within other diftn&s, not fpecificd in these pro
posals, the price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the contrattor.
The rations to be fupplicd arc to confill of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Halt a jill of rum, brandy or whifkv,
One quart of fait,
Two quarts of vinegar, f
Two pounds of soap, T
One pound of candles, )
The rations arc to be furnifbcd in such quanti
ties as that there shall at all times, during the said
term, be fufficient for the consumption of ihc
troops at each of the said polls, for the fpacc of at
lead three months in advance, in good and whole
some provisions, if the fame shall be required.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofTes
sustained by the depredations of the enemy, or by
means of the troops of the United States, shall be
paid for at the prices of the articles raptured or de
stroyed, on the depofnions of two or more crcdita-
Me chara&crs, aird the certificate of a commiflion
"d officer, afenaining the circumstances of the
'.of*, and thf amount of the articles for which com*
penfat:oo is claimed.
1 he contract for I he above fop plies will he
either for one year, or for two years, as may appear
'eligible. Peifan* to cpmrafl win ~
lore confine their offeis lo one year, or thev tr '
make their prupofittons so as to admit an tlrf, !
oi the lerm of two yeais.
The offers may compute , hc p l accl
have been fpecified.or a part of them oim.
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSOM, aod other
Bookftrllers >n Philadelphia,
AColleftinn of PSALMS, HYMNS ,-J e»,
RITUAL SONGS; felefM
Author,, and publtlhed by Order nf "he (J,
•enwo., holding .he Dnftr.ne „f , he SaWat.oTof
all|Men, met in Ph.ladelphia, Ma» «
Pr.ce olafmgle book, bound, 3 -8rf,, 1 ,f a Do'|,„
wtlb good allowance to those who i»te
(eptf.)'-
just ru "B Lis Jit 3;
By Thomas Dobion
Bookseller, at the Stone-Houfc, in Second-Sueet
Philadelphia, '
VOLUME VI ••
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
Or a Dictionary of Arts, Sciences
and Miscellaneous Literature '
On » plan entirely new : By which the dmVcnt
- lciences and arts are di e cftcd into the form
Of dijtinß Tr califs or SyjUms.
This sixth volume contains, among a variety 0 f
articles,
Dioptrics,diftiHatipn,riivm s bell.artof (Win*
Dublm art of Dying, theory oh he earth and earth!
quaket, Edinburgh, education,;hiltory of Egypt
Syflem of eleftncity, htftory ~t En e !a»<H en»ra»l
log, < laying, hiflory of Ethiopia, &c. &< & c
'' The work is printing on a fupeifine naper, and
new types (cast for the purpose in PhiiafclpniaY
which will be occasionally renewed befoie tnev
contrail a worrj appearance.
11. The work may be had in volumes or kaljnjbmes;
it being proposed to deliver the volume! in'
parts, at twenty rnir.ings(Prnnfylvaiiiactirrcr\cy)
each, in hoards, or tor the whole volumj. five
dollars, in boards. The volumes now fimfhed
a.etobe paid tor on delivery,and the price ol one
volume is to be Daid in advance. and thepiice
of each fuccecding volume to be paid on dc
1-vering the volume preceding it.
111. In the coin fe of publication will beexhibit
ed above five hundreo copper plate;, elegantly
engraved in Philadelph.a ; which, by far excced
in number those given in any other fcientific
dictionary. At the dole ot the publication will
be dcliveicd, an elegant frontifpieee, the dedi
cation, prefac.-, and proper title pagtsfor the
different volumes.
\* As the very great exp-nce attending the
undertaking, makes punftualit) of payment in
dispensably ncceffary, the publisher flatten liim.
felf that the fubfenbers will be perfrttly fatiified
with his adhering ftnflly to his original plan of
delivering the books only on receiving payment,
agreeable to the conditions of publication.
Suhfcriptions for the En cyclop edit,
Will continue to be received on the fame terms 3$
usual, till the firfl of September, 1792, when the
price will be encreafed. Ten Dollars lobe
paid on subscription, by those who have not fub
feribed before that "time.
Those who have fubferibed, but not taken their
books before that time, will be considered as not
having fubferibed.
As the subscription will probablv be closed by
Christmas, such as chufe to be pofTciTors of this
very valuable and important work, will do well
to come forward in tunc, that they may pot be
disappointed. July si. pptf
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
JUNE '28. 1 ?9 2 -
PURSUANT to the last Will and Teftamentof
the late Rev. Alexander Williamson,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thud
da y, the 1 ith of October next, at Georgetown*
011 a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved security, 10 bear interefl from
the date—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation of the deeeafed, containing between fix
and seven hundred acre*, the greatefl part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very configurable
quality cf fine meadow ;—Situated about 6 m;lf#
Irom the Federal City.and the fame did nee from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy part of the country.
The i mprovements are, a very elegant two story
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
oafTage, or entrv. on a floor) and the neceflary out
houses. HE\ T RY TOWNSEND,)
BEX J. STODDERT, > Executors.
(eptO) THOMAS JOHNS, )
TERRITORY or COLUMBIA
July 6,W
THE Subfcriher offers for Sale, a Mill-Seal oit
Rock Creek, deemed by those who have"-
mintd it, equal to any in the United States. Tie
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter 0
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile fro" 1
the matket house in Georgetown, and one m' e
Iromthe President's fquaie, in the city nf W - "
in^ton —on tide water, navigable for veflels e "
veral hundred bushels burthen. —The
lufficientjtheyear rouncf.to turn four pair of f o" cs *
and the fall may be made from 25*0 30 feet.
is utineceflary to dwell on the advantages 0 |UC
a situation. ..
The purchaser mav be accommodated wi
fpw hundred acres qf land adjoining the Mi - ca »
if that should r>e ?n oi-jccl,
per 100 rations,
(ep3 m 14 Jul)
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A N ALPHABETICAL LIST of the D """
r\ payable on ,11 Good,, Wares >nd Mwchan
tluc iniDoitcd into the United State*. cx '
the R.tes oavable on tltofe imposed in . «»
Vpfff-li of the I'n led States, and in Foreign
'• r VoiWi», including the iddit'onil Dunes
1 which the refprfiive Aniclcs ate lablc.
Llujlrated ui.'/i twenty-two copber phtts.
CONDITIONS.
B. STODDEr.T.