■ 1
r
a"a 'auoxjl paper, publilhi-d Wednesdaysand i
n °- "■■ x "»» m»7u.,, ,-srr„,r^ —
[No.
irtox (k' XV...Kii. All DAILY AiJff 'tiii'i Js>£ft
VINDICA TION' of MR. JKFFER.SOK
HAVING concluded in my last, a rep!v to
the l'eve r a! allegations brought forward
against „»Tr. J*.-iter 01;, by a writer under the
fi:»natui*es ofa:i An Amtrwd and Caful/us, and
placed eac'i upon the ground on which it me
tlted to Hand, Inbmitting it refpettiuUy to his
cguntr liien to determine, a:, well upon the
propriety ot* his cmiduft in the pa titulars
- on that <i* the author in trou
•lir.ir him and tliem with the fubjeft, I had
Ik ewifi hoprd that this d'faj>reea!)le business
*ai at an cm!. I aiA happy, however, to ob
serve, t .a! the revival has been upon so li-
I;■ tted ale v, as to preclude theapprehenfion
of ts bsing protracted to any great extent,
t (hall certainly contribute all in my power
to bring it to a ciofe.
The charge of any impropriety on the part
cf M' fan, iotfee fctU'r referred to, re
fctive to the p?p . : v trtflfer Frevch
debt, seems to !>e abandoned or but weaklv
inGfted on, admitting the statement given by
that writer to have been correct. And in
deed it wou d have been difficult longer to
have fiiftained with a judicious and well-in.
formed pnl c,-a:iy plausible argument upon
that ground, after it was efiablifhed, that
the French court and Dutch company
were equaliy anxious for the contract, anil
'itd solicited our approbation of it. For
ftirely, in such an event, we had a right,
and without the fmaileft breach of morality
or deiua 9, to weigh and determine which
ot tlio.e parties it would best suit ns to have
tor creditors - * ,d how could we exercile
such ight 'vv;L.ioi.it caking into view the com
parative merit of the parties, with every p if
fijie contingency that mi c tit, in tle m eft re
m.'te decree, tend to .niect the payment of
the debt ?
The ible object of this last publication, ur
. der the signature of Catullus, seems to be, to
vindicate the author from the c r.jge oi'huv
ing raii'reprefented the c. ntc.,ts oi' Mr. Jcf-
i^r : v,| rl,e MMtifi, of
an oiikial itaiuin, in any thinrj re-
Jittive to it. Hov far he ha*; fncceedcd in
•tiiii attempt, I shall now proceed to examine.
I /hall not trouble the reader with any
Comment upon the ingenious criticism on m/
lart h-temeut. The variance v ill be more?
eulily understood by reciting again the can
rents ot the paragraph in qnetMon, and com
paring the'e with the itatejnent repeatedly
given jy t!;jt writer. The nearer we ap
proach the iource, the nearer we fnall be to
the trut : lopMitry may envelope withdark
nef-, but wii: neve " U! i " ate tie fubjed.—
T!«w- foflo a in,?, ' , I aiiirm, to be the con
tents oftiuit paragr;:ph.
It state's, that in 1756, it being known the
French ton. t were diftre.Ted for money, a
Company ot Dutch merchants had offered to
of them the. American debt, of twen
ty-four millions of .ivres,ior the sum of twen
ty, and that their jembatrraffrnents inclined
them to accept of the proposal : That howe-
a ticlav was ocfaftoned, 011 the part of the
French court, by the apprehension it might j
ieilen our credit in Europe, and oe dilagreea
•le to ; whereupon he had been con
iulted by the agent of the company, and to
tvhom he liad replied, that he was neither au
thorized to approve or disapprove of the
tr an Taction. Having stated the proposition as
Jbove, he observes further upon it, in its re
Jation to his country, that if there be a dan
ger our public payments may not be punctual,
it might Ik? better that the discontents which
■Would then arile, fiiocid be transferred from
a coui t, ol whose good wijl we have so much
Iveed, to the breasts of a private company.
Rut that it had occurred to him, we might find
occaiion to («o w! -.ut would be grateful to that
court, and efiablifh with them a confidence in
our honor: Thap our credit was good in Hol
land might it not be poflible then to bor
row there, the four and twenty millions due
to Franco, and pay them the whole debt at
once . Tnis would save them from any lpfs
on our account; with some fu t ler obfcrvd
tions urging the propriety of this latter mea
sure;
1 iiat fu' ject may lie explicitly before j
*7* » A repeas a I . ' . . , a re .
the contents of Air. Jefftr ion's letter
tn,it head, and are contained in one entire
p. 1 a graph on] v. That the arrangement of
the idea is the fame, 2nd that in fu bit a nee 110-
tning has been added to or taken from it.
i He import of the above appears to me to
dc so clear and explicit, that' every person
■Hut unite in tbe fame conflruaion. That
t trantaction, for inlbance, had taken place
et\veen tne parties, before any mention.was
maoe or it to Mr. Jeherfon : and tliatincom-
Jinujcating it to Congress, he only made
jCROwn to that body, the desire, both of the
Company and the French Court;-and was,
• i-ourie, only the vehicle of communication.
%■
/h*nl*iou> 1
IJ V
;",.7 Of Vo
* A,
i_ _ i.
No. V.
"m '
" F
Saturday, Decklujeu 8, i 7 « 2 .
- . . . . • < *
J bat the op! - oa which he gare, arcfe out
ot the proyoi ion, was .n funhe. aiue of: r
lews, and tlmr, in ' u't, 1:0 decifioi rock! h,
'/rn.c;,,:: , r , cite, MtUCougi-', or
w-tiioot a > 1 .:.vn ilo.i of the parti,
" C ' J : ' 1 lited States. fi Hl that'the
proportion which he made (for this w.-v t " v
Ol t.:e Company) was to bofrow t c lcv m
Uoliand, itcd pay off the n'hole do- ;;t on : .
and that he d,liked that of the Company, o
at leal, preferred this or he wovld ,vjt lav,
prcpoied it. 1 fliall now now fu'.r'ain th
ftatemeiit ,;r,cu by Catullus.
,■« v e . imvln E fimrle Sentence lias teen pub
jiflieo by hm,, not only a 5 a literal t anfci ipt,
but as containing whatever w», nscfefikrv to
Mr. Jcfferlbh's fbntime,#on that
head If there ua danger of the piiSlic pay
ments not oemg punctual, I fubmt i,-hither it
may tot be better that the rii r con(rill ,
wpuld then arise, be transferred from
a court, o: whc.lt -cod offices wehave so much
need, to thefc-ea of 3 private Company.—
Some cenrejl,i ns have, ft is true, !wvn latterly
made, vft- tiy; but it ; s fti'l
Sltec,on,4.,¥>?, ; , t>
-ion con, re dec! f.,r, nor vary t'le import of
this Angle extract; and for its liberal confor
mity to the o lf,inal, he has pledced his veracity.
The variance, then, between us, con lifts
111 his Jufifrrffin of the otljer parts of the .para
graph, relating to the i:,nie fubjeft,.and*vhich
111 on d be seen, to enable the reader to tmii
prehend its true import. It consist*, like
wile, in the ulceration of a part of the sentence
■ titll, by t e interpolation of words, which do
not to it. The paflage in the letter
referred to, reads precifejy a, I have ft:.ted i*
abiiv;. Catnl'us has altered it bv the infec
tion 1 1 tne toilowing words," Ifubnii whether y'
—JT whic. tiie import of that sentence, and
especially wiien standing alone, has been va
ried. It therefore the statement which I
have give ~ is correct, it follows that Ca
tullus has been guilty of misrepresentation.
and that the extract fumifted by,him i 5
Jalfe, aecept i": and mutilated.
V het 1 ir t.e author ot these pieces lias beep
guilty of tli.. breach of official duties, in' tne
publics ion of any thiug reiativg to Mr. jef
terim 5 jetrc-.-, i know not. a variety of
reaions, of but litre importance to the puh
l.c, and which 'tis not neceflary for me to re
count, have created a belief, that thev pro
ceed from Mr. Hamilton. If Co, it will be
difficult for him to remove the imputation.
The perulal of the extract in fS 7, w'.n out
of Office, and the fafe preservation of it fine'e,
will r,ot juftify its publication by the pre'e-it
acting Secretary „f the Trealm'y ; nor does
it authorize a belief, if he is the author, that
the official document in Ins poifefiion, has not
been resorted to since. Will it be contended
that the conduct of the officer at the head of
t.iat department, should be scanned in this in
stance, bv the duties of the station hi held five
or ten years pad ? Or, in other words, that
the office, imposes on him no particular obli
gations, and which he is bound to regard ?
Con fide ring this attack upon Mr. Jefierfon
in the comniencement, as an attack upon
principles; knowing that the conflicting in
terests of parties were at work, and that the
one which was fufpefted, with tow much rea
son, to be attached to monarchy, would en
deavor, as an obstacle in its way, to undermine
not only him, but every other republican cha
racter iu the confidence of their countrymen;
and believing, as well from the duties of his
official station as his known delicacy inobferv
ing them, he would difregaid it, I thought it
in some measure a duty I owed to tliofe prin
ciples of equality which I venerate, to take
up the subjeCt, and place it on its proper
ground. So far, then, as any imputation has
been raised, against a diftinguiihed and patriot
citizen, I have furnilhed the reply, ancj I pre
sume, shewn no f only his innocence of any im
propriety in the allegations suggested, but
likewise the impurity of the motives which
dictated the attack.
It now remains only, in justice to the au
thor of the papers under the of An
Amtriian and Catullus, to fettle the facta whe
ther he has been guilty of misrepresentation,
and the breach of an olhcial duty, in the fn
itance alledged; and I have every poflible
disposition to concur, on my part, in those ar.
ranrements which may be necefi'ary to dispel
every doubt on that AibjeCh The truth may
be ascertained, by a recurrence to the depoijts
in either of t e departments, of State, or the
Treat ury. If Mr. Hamilton is not the au-
thor, and will announce it, I shall consider the
subjeCt as unworthy of further notice : if it
is neither denied nor owned, but the alterca
tion continued without any proof being pro
duced—for none has yet been—l shall like
wise consider it beneatn my attention ; but if
lie is the-authory and will avow it, my name
/hail likewise be fubinitted, and joint measures
'may tiitn be taken, whereby, tiie truth may
lie.plareilin and authentic point of
■^4
3S&
217
r-jfttrxz:-
• l !kf 1 AZi if£ of [he UMirth JJT.f/AJ
T 1"H fecn a greater outli
-*• vublifh.»d lately" than one con
piiicd in your Gazette of the jth
innaiu, nrat it is not poflible for
parties totake greater liberties M iili
truth than they have done lately ;
but in my opinion your correfpou
t has no , from the many inltan
ces which ;iave occurred leletfied
the nioft flriking to prove the truth
of his position, viz. the declaration
of a certain v riter, " that as a re
a! federalift he was compelled to
prefer Governor Clinton to Mr.
Adams ; i. e. an re
publican, to an avowed and acknow
ledged advocme for an hereditary
monarchy, and House of Lords-
Hoes the writer think that the iat
ter kind ofyjfcveinment ismortcon
| (*£nial bears a greater aflS-
I constitution of theUni
tcf States, than a repulican or re-
government ! If he
dies not, he has been very unlucky
ii: his fele&ion ; if he does—then
aij affedtion for monarchical govern
ment, mud by the public be here
afcer looked upon a» the diftinguifh
it®; criterion of a federalift ; if this
C ?'" e ' ' doubt not the uniform
feaeralifl, will willingly give up all
r»rht and title to the name j and I
■ t J/ n ' 4 lc ' s rea ".y happy for the pub
' the contel * at the prelenc
for Vite Pre 'ident, h like
l*y to afford the public so just and
iJ&L ?• cr ' rer ' on ' ifihe writer would
■•d onie striking examples to
ilaiftrate the truth of the position
OBt w ith, I would point hiin
P arg ? ra l > h which immediare
fits fei.tw, ill ttreCs« ;;c,
as a very handy one, and to a piece
undo* the signature of Otfego, in
'I*® General Advertiser, he
will fin<l as great liberties taken
■•nth ti*iitlJl as in any publication
which has lately appeared.
r,: i n
Foreign Affairs.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
September 24.
natiokai treasury.
rHi, Reccipt ef the National
1 reafury from the firfl; of Jan.
1 792. to the22d ofSept. inclufi»ely,
is 915,725,675 livres.
t he Expenditure during (hefamQ
period, 865,526,764 livres.
I.' ere remains in the Treasury
50,198,895 livres.
TbeCommiifioners dated that the
sum realty exists inca£hof different
forts. The amount in gold and sil
ver specie, is ii,892,6»8 livres.
CAISSE D Z
The Caitfe de l'Extraordinaire was
inliuiued for the reception of/Mlig
nats, immediately on their fabrica
tion, for the payment of the re
deemable debt ; and to receive the
Aiiignats which were given in pay
ment by the pnrchafers of the Na
tional effects.
The Receipt to this time has been
2,632,583,166 livres. ■
The Expenditure 2,604,75*2,125
livres.
There remains in bank 28,732,125
livres.
THjg Receipt <ff theßevfcnnes and
Ca|«rth of jhe National effects is
livres.
The total of Affignats which have
been received nnd burnt is 617,000,
000 livres.
There remains, therefore, in a
fepaiate bank, 6,290,800 livres in
siliignats annulled and ready to be
burnc.
c anihon then called tlie atten
tion of th^AfTembly—to the eniilii
l»n <>f new "afftarnats y to the delay
which rcfults from the* necessity «Jf
-fcg£
i •*
-■>.*-
r -
o-ling ntjv i>mm me ttlQI C , (
It are, t lit effion of aKi . c which
no !„„ gei . exists • and to ,„ e „
tioi. which mult be p.,id lo ~r l!ti,
commerce, that would be ruined b"
1 »oJd«u fupprciiiun of biiis f
private banks.
After a lliort difcuflion tne Ali .-
bl y decreed, that twelve Com mi'.:.-
from a nong themfelvea,
Ihould foperintend and J.alien liie
iiibi icatiun of Ailignais.
J lie Aflembly beard, with much
latisfacftion, tlie account given bv
I. Roland, of his administration.
He pointed out the wifell measures
to be pii.fued in the renovation of
the Administrative Bodies, in re
calling the people to the empire of
the laws : without which there
cpnld be no liberty ; and he invi;.
Ed the National Convention to sur
round thenil'p'ves with that ii of
ing force, which could alone tei an
nate anarchy, and intimidate auda
cious criminals.
Ihe Aflembly ordered this Me
morial to be printed.
SEPTEMBER 28.
M-Lafource reminded
Hon that ;he order of the day \vj.
the election ol" a Minilter War
J he Aiffrages of leveral Memb'ci:
having fallen on I'oine of the depu
ties of the National Convention, i
debate took place on this vciy im
portant qiieition, Whether Mem
bers of the Convention wei e
Ide not only to places in the Mi.iiT
"7, but alio to other inipouiwu if
fices in the Republic ?
Some were ot opinion that the
MiniJlers ought to be chosen from
among all the Citiz-ns rtitiuuit dil
tinciio.i, wniVe m tiers ii. L /iit ua
the contrary, that this wonUrbe en
dangering tiie Republic ; becaofe,
laid they, intriguers would then in
fallibly find the means ol procuring
votes tor theinfclves or their friends
in such a manner, that they might
afterwards infiiience the Conten
tion, and consequently the opera
tions of the Miniilrjr. ihi ' lalt
idea was explained in a very clear
and faiisfatftory manner by Leeoin
tre Puyraveaux ; and after a long
debate the Convention deci eed, th.it
Miuilters could not be chosen fioox
among the Deputies.
This decree brought on a difc»f
fioii iel'peifting the two Ministers,
Roland and Servan, who both per
filted in giving in their refiguaiion.
The furiner, because he bad been
chosen a Deputy to the National
Convention ; and the fatter because
the itate of his health did not per
init liim to support the fatigues of
office.
A member here bettowed the
highest prailes on the two Ministers,
and reminded the Convention of the
important fei vices they had render
ed to their country, to which they
had facrificed the greater part of
their property. " On these confi
derations I think every good citi
zen must wi(h that Roland and Ser
van would retain that post in which
they have been placed by the con
fidence of the nation. I move, there
i'ore, that the'e citizens may be in
vited in the name of their country
to continue to serve it."
Jean ile Brie (aid, this would be
offering an iiifulr to stlier citizens,
as it would amount to a declaration
that none of t lie in were capable of
filling up places in the Miniitry.
Btizot was of opinion that the
Convention was the difpenfei of the
gratitude of the nation, and that ic
would not disgrace idVlf, as iiad
been pretended, bj. inviting beivan
and Roland not to quit their func-
tions,
The discussion was about to be
terminated, but a member having
u)ovcJ ; that Danton (hculd alio bs-
[Whole No. --7.1
/ /invited to discharge, at least pro
visionally, the duty of Minilter ol
Jultice, that member exprefled his
indignation lhatthe representatives
of a free people (hould debafethem
felves so far as to invite. •' It is
probable and eveu certain (con
tinued Damon) that the Minilier of
War cannot yield to your invitation,
as the (Vate 'of his health will not
permit him ; and is it not a real
disgrace toyou to expofeynurfelves
to the mortification of a refufal i —
But as every one here has the right
of expreliing his fentimenfs, 1 (hall
declare mine like a fan of freedom.
People talk to you continually ol
Roland and his -virtues—l render
him that justice which is due to him,
but 1 think his talents are too much
extolled. If you mean to add refs
your prailes to him, address them
alio to-his wife, for (he also bad a
/hare in the AdminHt ration 1 also
liave been a Minilier, but I aifted
alone, and 1 did eveiy thing alone ;
but if Roland had not had a wife, he
would not have obtained so much
praise. Without doubt, and proofs
of it exilt, he does not pollels that
greatness of character, and that
sublime intrepidity, which are not
intimidated by great dangers. I
will tell you thar, in the lafl mo
ments of the ciifis, he (hewed a
want of firmnefs, and declared in
the Council his intention to quit
Paris." [Thisfpeech was often in
terrupted by loud murmurs.]
Ban ere,in the warmth of the de
bate, improperly applied to Roland
the exprellion of that Athenian,
who being alked, why he voted a
g;iinft Ariltides, replied ? " 1 am
lired of hearing him lliled, The
Just."
Another Member severely cen
sured this application.
Chambon.—" We have been Re
publicans eight days, and yet we
abandon ourselves to all the infatu
ation of slaves. Be on your guard,
1 eit gratitude should hurry you too
far ; excess of giatitnde conducts
always to despotism. Let us not
forget what happened among the
Dutch j one of their fellow-citizens
rendered them great set vices, which
were extolled to the clouds ; they
created b'un Stadtholder ; and this
Stadtholder at length cruflied their
liberty. I move the order of the
day."
Louvt't replied to the reproach
thrown out by Danton against the
Minister of the Home Department,
for having (hewn a want of firinnefs
and courage.—" During the days
of proscription (said he) I waited
upon Roland, for I thought that
those who had endeavored to diretfl
the poignards of aflaflins against
him might at length fee their per
fidious designs crowned with suc
cess. When I saw Roland on that
occasion, he said, —" If lam pro
scribed, I will calmly wait my fate,
Slid i hope that this murder will be
the last."—Was this pusillanimity,
as has been said by Danton ?"
Laluurce.—«• VV itho\ic wailing our
time in enquiring whether the ta
lents ascribed to Roland, were en
tirely his own, or in a great mea
sure those of his wife, 1 am of o
pinion that a public man ought not
to be reproached for having a pru
dent wife, and even for sometimes
following her wife counsels. The
reflection that has been thrown out
by Damon is unwonhy ofa Legisla
tor."
After defending Roland againfl:
all the calumnies that had been
thrown out againfl him, Lafource
moved the previous queltion on all
the motions thatliad been made.
The Convention now palled to
the order of the day.
M E R T Z E G, Sept. 10
Pi irvce ti Lfterjiazv, commander
of the army in Brifgaw, having
found it neceflary to cut off all con"
niunicatioii with the enemy on the
Rhine, the political department has
i efolved, in consequence, to deliver
no more paflports for the pafl'aae of
that river.
Count Giullauroede Witgehftein
wiio, afier having railed a regiment
for the army of the French Princes,
was arretted liei e at the coronation
of the Emperor, and conduced to
Loblemz, where he was confined
two has been found imo
cent, and in consequence set a\ li
berty.
M A Y K N C E, Sept. 1 y
The corps commanded by the
Prince de Conde, confiding of
men, is arrived in the environi of
t' riboti rg.
TREVES, Sept. 13.
M. tie la Fayette, and three of
his brother officers, arrived at iVe
(el yelterday, under a strong escort,
where they are laid to be placed in
close and separate confinement
the ciradel, and not fuffered to fee
any person v h.never.
BONBON, Ocftober 4.
Comparative account of Customs,
Exci s h,St a mps,&c. for the weeks
ending Sept. 28, 1791, and aßih
Sept. 1 792 :
1 79'
£■'■ '■ £. "s d.
Jnftorr.s I?5»?7J o 6 254,625 19 8
Excise 9 o 33,911 o o
Stamps 28,262 o o 15,695 o o
Incidents 23,927 2 7 40,871 18 1
267,199 3 1 345,103 18 6
Increase in the week ending the
28th of Sept. 1792, above the cor
responding week in 1791, fevenyr
fevejj thousand nine hundred and
four pounds fifteen fhilhnes !
The public income ariifng frft l .
the permanent taxes for thje %
fortnight, has greaily exceeded tajJf
a million ; and the comparative ili
creafein the fame period, hasp
mounted to one hundred twenty
eight thousand fix hundred ajid,
nineteen pounds.
General Jarry, who ordered tiie,
suburbs ofCourtray to be set on $re.
on the 26th of Augcift,: went o*r)
from the French to the enemy wkh.
M. de FroiUi, tl»e Colonel of thegd
regiment of Hullars, formerly , If
terhazy, he was llopped at Gra*4h-;
maker, and carried prisoner toLtiX- 1
eniburg
A rumour is in circulation, but
which we can at present give butas
the report of the day, that the Dqke
of SuderinanLa has declared the
young King of Sweden a baft.vd,
and undertaken to prove his illegi
timacy to the Diet of the kingdom
about to be convoked. The regent
is powerful ; but should the Em
prel3 of Ru(lia prove unfavorable to
his piojec r ts, a civil war mil ft be the
inevitable consequence. It is true
that Rufiia being already so much
en g a g e d in the affairs of Poland and
France, might favour the execution
of so bold and iniquitous a project,
but it is scarcely probable that in
the cafe of such an event, the Duke
would have destroyed Ankarftrom
and his afl'ociates, as men of that
character might have been made ve
ry serviceable in such a caufc.
The conduct of the regent of
Sweden is not unlike the Duke of
Gloncefler, whotofecure the crown
of England, employed the Du'ke of
Buckingham to harangue the citi
zens in Guildhall, touching the le.
giti inacy of Ed ward V.and The Duke
of York. Jt is to be devouily wish
ed, however, that in after ages it
may not be laid of the Duke of Su
dermania—
" This man was noble,
" But with his last attempt he wiped it out
" Deftioy'd his country,andhis name remains
'VTo the ensuing ages abhorr'd."
The rapid decay observable in
the Queen of France, is attributed
to poison, secretly adininiftered by
the Jacobines. The King who lo
ved good eating and drinking as
well as any of his fubjecls, is now
supplied with either in very scanty
portions, instead of his favorite food,
boiled chickens, he mull now be
content wiih a-la-mode beef; and
as to drink, they do not even fur
iiilh him with clean water.
1 he wife of Condorcet the mem
ber of the National Convention,and
her family, are arrived in London.
We trust that our government will
take care that her hi.fband (hall not
follow her hither with impunity
Condorcet lsft tyring lodged a treat
quantity of money in our funds ;
molt of his brethren in iniquiiy
have done the fame.
The Ducl.efs d'.-iigoilton arrived
at Duver last Saturday, disguised in
-*■ - --gc.
218
a failoi's habit, with one servant ;
having efcajjccl froniHavi e cle-Grace
in an open boat. i>iie is fmce ar
rived in tow I).
Extrufl oj a Jettljt from Paris, to a la-
Jj in Bath, dated Thurfaay lajl.
" The populace met the prifon
?is from Orleans before tficy enter*
:d Verfaiiles ; and were so eager
0 destroy them, that they began to
hop off their hands as ihey laid
hold of the fides of the cart. 1 hei e
were 53 ; amongst them was the
judge of the feiftion of Henry IV ;
ic was him that fetched Berihier
and b'oulon to Paris the firll yeai
of die revolution ; he was now bro'i
in his turn. Those lavages thai
could not have a head,took a hand
and put it on the end ol their pikes
they made quick dispatch with then
and did not let them fuffer long
1 hope all this killing is now over.'
Ext rati of a letter from A^njltrdam
o- - /
1792
" The precaution taken by the
French government of fending coin
miffioners to the commercial cities
of foreign nations, for the purpose
of regiliering the names of stock
holdeis, has a very good effect here,
so tliat the funds have rifeii."
September 24.
" The heail quartets of the army
ommanded by the Duke of Saxe
refciicn, which were at Mons on
lie 171 li iliftant, were transferred
to Tournay ; His Royal Highness
arrived there the fame day. We
from this motion mal;e no doubt,
but that Lille will be attacked.—
Since the French have raised the
camp of Maulde, where our troops
have destroyed all the works, a
a corps of 10,000 Aullrians have en
camped at Helemme, about half a
league from that place. A number
of troops lately set off" from Tour
nay to polt themselves in the envi
rons of Lille, and that place is block
ed up cloler and cloler. A great
quantity of ammunition and artille
ry has been sent from the Duke of
Saxe-Tel'chen's army ; and it seems
that, notwithstanding the advanced
season of the year, enrerprize will
not be deterred. Lille has been re
inforced with three battalions of
National guards, and has received a
supply of provisions of every kind ;
and every preparation, in fine, is
made for a long refinance. On the
other hand, General JBeaulieu is en
camped with his corps on Mount
d'Aupin, near Valenciennes. On
the 1 }ih a large body of the Hou
lans and Chafleurs advanced under
the walls of that fortrefs, when a
detachment of dragoonsand infant
ry sallied out upon them, a finart
aifiion ensued, in which our troops,
notwithstanding the greatest efforts
of bravery, were obliged to retire
in disorder, with the loss of a good
number killed, besides several ta
ken prisoners. On the 19th of Sept.
from 1200 to 1400 men of the garii
fon of Maubeug made a finart attack
on oar fldvnnccd ports ; at firft
met with a Itrong refinance, but our
troops having received a reinforce
ment, the French were obliged to
retire to their fortrefs with the loss
of a grear nnmber of men. The
loss on our fide was also very consi
derable."
Copy cjlTa letter written by the King
of Poland to M. Potocki, Grand
Mailer of the Artillery of the
Crown, and Marshal of the Gene
ral. Confederation.
" M. MaHshsl,
" I have still the fame attach
ment to you as formerly, for I am
fully convinced that if we have dif
fered in the choice of the means
pursued for securing the happiness
of our country, we have,at lealt al
ways agreed in those fentimcnts of
affection which we both equally en-'
tertain of it.
" 1 have, upon all occasions, giv
en you such evident proofs of this
attachment, that you cannet doubt
it : I therefore think myfelf enti
tled to your confidence. I now
claim it as the only thing which
can speedily bring back tranquility
to the bolom of our common coun
try ; and if yon are disposed to
grant it to me, as 1 flatter nivfelf
you are, you will find in me no nni
mafity, nor even the finalleft semi-
OSkvVsA rt\\ Vs \
September 28
Extract of a letter from Bntjfith,
mem ofafperity vr'hicii'"might e
vent, ov-fvei> ictanl, the letur: , of
( that tranquility which is j'o neceih
iry. I call my whole ki. gdoin to
witness that p.ivaie rebutment, or
per.fbiffl hailed, i.eveC found ihcl
ter iu breall.
" After having opened heart
to you with Co niutJi fincerii*., 1 ex
pect in return that son will concur
in fupporiing thofe'views and ope
rations forthe success of which l am
lo solicitous ; because upon this con
currence depends the whole luccel'a
of labors fort lie public good.
" M. Ozarovvlki Cattelan de Wop
nice having informed me that he is
about to set out for your pre Cent re
fidence, I thought l"could not en
trull this letter in better hands than
those of a citizen whom youefteeui
and who is worthy of our recipro
cal confidence.
" Such, M. Marfbal.are the fehtj*
ments I entertain cowards yon: 'f
add to them my finoere wiflwifor
your prosperity.
(Signed)
Stanislaus Aucustus."
Frid v evening about duflc, a fellow with a
b'ack sice, and taken for anegro, had the au
dacity to flop a gentleman with a Jadv in a
/ingle horse chai e, the other fide of Barnet
common, and robbed them of tl-eir watches
and a purie of money. The villain did not
diffover the least fear; but when alked by
the gentleman, upon giving up itis moAey, if
he belo'i 'd ft Africa— pHed, !' "r'-jj '.be
purie, " yy , in the Gi,trea trtde."
The accoun s from Turkey are very af
fecting ; the,plague is ma>.ing terrible rava
gv">, and has communicated its influ-i ce very
near the Austrian demarcation. Several fa
milies have already retired to avoid this
frourge, and a cordon of troops is Rationed to
prevent a communication with the intefted
places.
Domestic Articles.^
KINGSTON, (Jamaica) Oil. 13.
Capiain Young, of the brig Andrew, has
been adjudged by three magWrates, to whom
the bnfinefs was referred, to be entitled to
one half of the net proceeds of Tales of rlie brig
Felicity and cargo, as the right of salvage.
This ve:Tel, our readers will recolieft, was
taken poXefiion of by Capt. Young, on his pas
sage to this island from Philadelphia, ai'ur
(he had been totally deserted.
OFI. 20. The latest letters from Hiipar.jWa
fpesk in very flattering te-ms <. ?.
they have of a very speedy to min£t ; on of all
their disquiets, whether political or other
wtle, from t-ie spirit of unanimity which has
at last taken place amoiirrfl the inhabitants.
The L.ft accounts from Port-au-Prince
mention that tranquility i? perfectly re-esta
blished, that commerce bids fair to lift her
drooping head, and that there is plenty cf all
kinds of produce, particularly sugars, at
market.
M. Blanche!ai\de, the late Governof of Hif
paniola, has been lent home to Old Prance, in
the Capricieux frigate, to take his trial for
lezenation, with which he is charged by his
opponents, who impute the whole of the mil
fortunes which have nearly ruined that once
noble colony to his insidious intrigues. M.
Blanchelande is guarded bv 33 fofdiers, and is
said, prior to Jiis departure,
treated with great indignity by the major
of the inhabitants of the Cape.
I? O S T O N, Nov. 24'
Let the couteft In France ifTue either in
«T- |J nf P 'Ot' ft*Cnm^-~
chy—-the United States will be benefitted by
the event. The &nimofity which, at present,
exists between the various partisans, mult
constrain those v/ho are unfuccefsful to feck
asylum in some other part of the globe—and
none pre fen ts itfelf more favorable than this
country. Here ALL enjoy liberty andfafety
—Here they will be removed from all those
local causes of diflfatisfa&ion, which have em
bittered their lives at home, and fettling into
the tranquil state of our citizea*,by their arts
and industry, t iey will open new sources ot
wealth, ant! greatly contribute to advance the
growing importance and prosperity of our
country.
The Kin T , of Great-Britain has refufed to
ecognize France, as a Republic. In conse
quence all official communications with the
ft*enc*i AmbafTador at London, have cea r ed.
A correspondent congratulates his tellow
federalifts in the Union, on the success of the
late elections in almost all the Stater —Where
a re-choice has not happened, the elected have
been gentlemen of the Hrit character for abi
lities and
ALBA N Y, 26.
The of the state ot Rhode-Island
have pafled an ast allowing a bounty ol :,x
(hillings on e very bolt s oT topfai.l and other
stouter duck, which may hereafter be m&nu
-11 ufa<sl ured in that state.
The General Aflembly of the ftnte of Con
necticut, at their late feO.on, paifed an
supporting niiflionarie > to .preach the gofpe!
in the Northern and "Weflern parts ot the
United Stat. s.
During lift week there wa? a heavy fall ot
snow for the <irl> time tJjis season; its depth
in the eouutry wis so great a to iender tia
veiling extremely difficult.
fc-y-
PK
'** • *"
♦
* +
0
i s
& 4CONGRESS.
HOVSE Oh REPRESENTATIVES
WEDNESDAY, December 5.
The bill to reimburse certain extra expencej
•f the lite Commiffioncra f<.r of peace
with the Creek Indians, was read the third time;
«nd on tha question, ftiall the bill pal's? it pair
ed in the negative, 21 to 10; the ayes and noes
being as follow : —
M*flrs. Atues, Baldwin, Barnwell, Benfon,
Boudinot, S. Bourn, Lawrance, Livermore,
Muhleniievg, Milledge, Fitziinion-, Pay,
S;d£witk, 'V. Smith, Sturgii?, Tnatcher,
Tncke , Wadfworthj Waid, \i iili-—2O.
NOES.
Mcffj % A br, B. Boui«, Chrlc, Dayton,
Gordon, Jacobs, Key, IvitcUelJ, Leonard,
Mercer, Moose, Niles, Parker, J. Smith,
Steele, Svlvefter, Treaclwcl!, Venable, White,
Wiiliamlon, O. —21.
A report 011 the petition of William Dunbar,
cxecutor to G.orge Galpin, late a Superintend
ent of Indian affairs, was read : this report was
in favor of the prayer of the petition, and pro-
poses that a bill should pass, allowing to the
heirs of George Galpin, at the rate of 500 dol
lars per annum from November 1, 1775, to
May 1, 1780; as a compensation for the fe»i
crs fyi4 CVffljfi. act Swp**rrote?Kl*Bt of Incmn
aili.irs during that period, for which Cervices he
had never received any pay or reward.—lt was
moved that this report Ihould be agreed to; some
debate ensued, and on the question being rnken
tim motion was negatived, 24 to Ir.
The petition of James W>ek# wat read, pray
ing compensation for the loss of a veiTi 1 and car
go daring the late war. A motion to refer this
-petition to a committee of the whole was neoa
tived. °
A memorial of Noah Phelps was read, pray
ing compensation for services performed during
the war. A motion to refer, was negatived.
The petition of E.ilher Johufon was read and
referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Murray prei'ented the petition of Wal
ter Smith, lare a junior surgeon in the American
army, praying a settlement and payment of his
account.
Mr. Murray Rated the circumltances on Wfcjch
this application was founded ; but a motion to
refer the petition to a fcle<st committee, was ne
gatived.
Ihe house tool; into consideration the report
of a I*ledt coinmitree on the petition of Moses
*onng. n-c petition anci repuit were read :
the report wa* in favor of the petition. Mr.
\ouhg was appointed Secretary to Mr. Laurens
on his emb ifi'y to Holland. Mr. Laurens, it
appears, had recommended to Mr. Youno- to
take but one naif of his salary, in confederation*
of theembaiTy 'shavingproved inefficient; and,
as an inducement, informed Mr. Young that he
(:/Ir. Laurens) intended to relinquish the whole
of his salary. Mr. Young, from patriotic mo
tives, and influenced by the example of Mr.Lau
rens, accordingly relinquilhed one half of his sa
lary as Secretary uforefaid ; —but finding after
wards that Mr. Laurens had, on his return to
America, received his full salary and emolu
ment from tne government, as ambaJTador,
Mr. Young, in the petition, prays that he may
be paid tha full amount of the salary he had, on
t.ie aforefaid eofifiderations, relinquilhed.——
All the vouchers and documents relating to this
bufineis were read : among others, an account
fettled between the UnitedStatesandMr.Young,
l'he queifcion, therefore, according to the opi
nion given by the gentlemen who Supported the
pehf ;'n 4 was, whether the present government
! ould avail ltfelfofthis settlement made under
t e circumltances already Hated, and thereby
ptedude the petitioner from the full allowance
to wnich he was, by a resolution of the former
Congress, entitled, especially as by the account
t u it appears that Mr. Young made a reser
vation of a further claim.—lt was observed that
t e allegations in the petition were supported by
the most explicit declarations on the part of Mr.
aurem ; and that the petitioner was clearly
an justly entitled to the sum he had relinquilh
ed on a contingency which had not taken place,
out dire&Jy the reverse ; —it was said that it
would belittle short of taking a pettifogging ad
vantage of the petitioner.
In opposition to the report in favour of the
petitioner, it was raid, that the settlement made
the public office appears to have been done
deliberately— and the allowance of the salary of
£ -'jo sterling, was made pursuant to certificates
received from Mr.Laurens, as a full salary. It was
Urged, that if the legislature should rip up tranf
.ivilions so long fettled, and do away accounts fi
nally doled with the proper officers, it would
a inctl rhingeroiio precedent inueed. It was
co.ifuntly echoed in thehoufe, that these iettlc
ments were not to bt disturbed; the consequence
it was easy to perccive, would be of the molt
p«- r 4 ilexing nature; there would b£ no end to
the applications which would take place ; ap
p lta
pretentions, it was said, were much more weigh
tyand important than that now under conside
ration. It was further observed, that it does
not appear that Mr. Laurens had deviated from
his agreement with Mr. Young, in fettling his
h count; for though he had received his full sa
lary as ambassador, it plainly appears rhat he
did not receive it merely as a compensation for
iervice.s as such, but hi part as an indemnifi-
m
AYES
'or "urer .crv.cej, and f„ r losses he had
luftamcd, m consequence of being in public em
ployment ; and therefore Mr. Young", on
account of a luppofed viohtiuu of contrj-A on
the part of Mr. Laurens, is not well founded : —
andtfch.es, it was remarked, that Mr. Younir
m the account he has fettled, has no reference m
his note oi reflation, to any fubfequeut claim
on account of any contrast between him and
Mr. Laurens, After a long debate, the cuefti'on
on agreeing to the report of the committee, in
favour of tne petitioner, a 8 above stated, ivas put
and negatived, 27 to 25.
,®f r r W T7 Smith moved, that the petition
of Moses Young, with the additional evidence
and documents accompanying the fame, be re
committed to a feleil committee. This, motion
was toft.
Mr. Goodhue gave notice, that to-morrow L
call "P ;he coafling bill Adjourned.
THURSDAY, December 6.
A bill to authorize the settlement of the ac
count of Lewis G<iranger, for public fervicts
performs! .!urin R the last war,-was read the
In It ai.ci i ccond time, and referred for Xuefdfv
next. J
A mefTage was received from the President of
the United States by Mr. Secretary L-ar, con
veying the copy of certain communications re
cently received, relative to the war with the In
dian Tribes North Weil of the Ohio.—The gal
leries were cleared while th; communication
which was confidential, was read.—The doort
be j ng again opened,
she petition of Amos Miner wat presented
by Mr. Sylvefler; read and referred tj the com
mittee on similar applications.
A communication was received and read from
the commissioners for fettling the accounts ol'
the individual States with the United States ;
the purport «f which is, that they do nor at pre-.
sent fee any impediment to compleatin'* tfee fct
tkmerit of the buHnefs of their a; pvtw,,v."rit
within the time limited, viz. the irt of July
1793-
In committee of the whole, on the Coasting
bill. Mr. Sedgwick in the chair.—The bill was
read in paragraphs, by the Chairman.
The committee went thro' the discussion of
the fevera! fe&iona ; they made various amend
ments, which were reported ant! laid on the ta
ble.
Mr. Key, of the committee on the petition of
Woodrop and Joieph Sims, brought in a report,
which was, that the relief prayed for ought to
be granted.
I lie reading of the petition was called for, the
prayer of which is, that they may be released
from the payment of the duties on sundry goods
loft 011 a vo>age from New-York to Philadel
phia.
A motion was made to accept the report of
the committee.
Mr. Goodhue observed, that though he was'
disposed to grant relief in the cafe, yet he saw
no principle oil which it could be doin*;• —had
tne owners injured a sum fufficient to have co
x-':~ hr.vc • ■ -\zd ffcj*
additional loss occalioned by having given bond
for them. He thought that the house ought to
proceed with great caution, as granting relief in
the present cafe would be establishing a precedent
which might be attended with great inconveni
ence and eventual lofg of revenue.
Mr. W, Smith said, that relief had been grant
ed in a former cafe, which perhaps was fmiilar ;
though he did not pcrfe&ly recollc& the cir
cumstances,—and said he wished the law he al
luded to might l)e read. He ftiggefted the pro
priety of receiving the opinion of the Secretary
of the rrcafury, as it was of thegreateft impor
tance that a full investigation of the fubjedfc
ihould take place previous to any decilion.
Mr. Fitzfimons observed that this was an in
dividual cafe; it flood on its own merits; every
member of the House was fully competent to
forming an opinion on it; and he hoped the
House would determine rcfps&ing it for them
feives,
Mr. Fitzfimons then slated the particulars to
shew that this was a cafe of peculiar hardship and
misfortune; and that the lots of the duties to
which the petitioners were exposed, tro&in part
from an excess of official attention on the part
of the Collector of New-York.—After some fur
ther remarks by different gentlemen,
The petition and report were referred to a
committee of the whole, for Monday next.
A letter was communicated by the Speaker,
from Mr. Scney, informing the House that by
reason of an appointment in the judiciary in the
ilate of Maryland, incompatible withholding
his feat in theNationalLegiflature, he religned his
feat as a Representative from that State in the
Congress of the United States.
Adjourned.
FRIDA YJ| D3C. 8.
The memorial of Timothy Demombrnn
was read, praying compensation for Cervices
and supplies as an Indian agent atKafkaikias ;
relented to the Secretary of the Treasury.
A message was received from the Prefidejit
of the Upited States, by Mr. Lear, con
veying certain communications received by
the supreme executive from the Governor of
the Territory of the United States, South Weib
of the River Ohio.
The Jetrer from Mr. Seney, containing bii
resignation was again read, and a morion
made to refer the fame to a committee; some
debate ensued ou this motion—in which the
question was ftai ted how far it was in the
power offi member of the House to vacant
bis feat ; the folutiou of this, it was said
would involve a length? difenflion of iom<3
constitutional qr.e/tion .—if it was the opinion
of the Houle that the pre fen t cafe naturally
included this difcuffi&n, the reference ought
to be to a committee of the wljolc. Some
gentlemen thought that the inoft fnnple pro
cess was to accept-the resignation, and make
entry acc rcjingly iu the JouT/:al— a noti-
Tfie people of the United States do not ex
pect impoffitpties—but they,will not be fatif
t£ed -vith simple 4*' arat - onJ that a " effort's
till Le in vain, and that the oi fuclr
#
mx
219
nF Vf lOn .i to ' !, | i ICnt to t!,e exec "tiv(? of the State
thehttfr 1112 mar .' olilor '■ominitine.;i
del.-tter.vas negative;!—:i nuti.™ v --
Speaker of fe HouW*
i\J X ' Cnt ' ve of t-,e Si * te " f M ' lr *lT'd
u y m ths 'eprerent-ariou of tint.
5' b y the r ff%nationot'Mr. S.'.jcv Thi
ssr-«*•«■»-tbe,ette,: hi « on
U 'red S ! fr ° m 5 President of tie
of L f 5 confidential—the door.
ca-W yW " eihutwllile the "»»mnni
c-idojis were read.
Philadelphia, Dec. 8.
'V'j Jeiru that the meafui*n tom«n bv t' e
iupreme executive of the United State's, to
buns Me bofiile Indians to a conference, in
W'lich all fubltfting differences fnould he ad-
Jluted, have ilTued in a proposal of the fwid In
dian; to meet Comraiflioners of the United
•States at the Au Glaize, on the Miami River
Which runs into Lake Erie, the next Sprint
at the tune tl* leaves fliall be fully out—And
that in the mean time they will lay alide the
bloody tomahawk.
The Six Nations have invited Governor
e t0 be prcfer.t at the proposed confe-
rence.
e - ~ear from New-Jersey, that the Elec
tors of that Sttte have given a unanimous
vote lor George Washington John
Adams, as Prefect and Vice-President of
the United State..
The array lately at Pittsburgh, is gone into
winter quarters.
Tuesday evening last, the Vice-President of
'nc United States arrived in town, ar.rj next
day he took his (eat as President of the Senate.
riiefdav the 4th inft. being the day for the
Tret"' * -i|>he General Assembly of thi i State,
mincer (if the Members of the Houfc of He
pftfentatives and of tlie Senate, fufficient to
c wftitute a quorum as each, convened at the
State-hou'e in this city.
Forty-five members of the Hcrofe of Re
pfwfentatives attended this day, and after
t,e clerk had fmifhed the reading of the re
turns, a motion for adjournment was made,
aad agreed to.
Wednefdav tl»e house proceeded to the elec
tion of a Speaker, and the honorable Gerardus
Wynkoop, Esq. was chofpn.
Yesterday at 12 o'clock his Excellency the
Governor of this Commonwealth met both
blanches of the Lejnflature in the Senate
Chamber,when he addressed them in a lengthy
Sjjcech exhibiting a circamftautial and com-
Pfehenfive view of the situation ol public af
fairs.
Weduefday last was the day affiled by a
Law ot the Union for the electors of President
and Vice-President of the United States, to
alembic in the leverai States to execute tlie
Umiefsfor which tl.ey were chosen. The
thio t onv#>n©4,at- UartUbur^h
tho eot New-York at PoughkeepfiCy those of
MaiTachufetts at Boflov.
On the 16th ult. a letter from Melfieurs
liebert, and Go. of Paris, add re fled to Con
gress, was rend in the House of Representa
tive-—in which they propose that Congress
Ihould make them a grant of land, as near as
poflrble to Philadelphia.
They lay if Congress are inclined to attend
to their request, they would inform them,
(hat they have fifty (hares of one hundred
pounds ftsrling each, to be employed in their
firft purchafe;—refulting from an inflrument
by the three eldest sons of tlie King of
England—an authenticated copy of which is
transmitted with their letter. This inftru
njent is a bond for one hundred thousand
pounds sterling, signed by George, Prince of
Wales—F ederick, Duke of York—and Wil-
j liam, Duke of Clarence.
This sum was borrowed for twenty-five
year«t, at 5 per cent, per aim. payable in in
— md is divided into iO3O negotiable
fti-ires by consent of the borrowers.
W< 1. ar 1 hat about half a mile of the Schuyl
kill and Delaware'canal is already dug. This
is refpe£l»ble progress for the time in so arduous
w» undertaking". It is hoped it will not be found
Soever t at for the funds of the company, and inay
not prove a di/sppointment to the hopes of those
who conceive that oui improvrment in eanaling
rfep&nris much upon ine success of the firft ex
periment.
A convention is called by the Council of Cen
sors of the State ot Vermont, for the purpose of
rcvifitij; the Constitution of that State. The Con
vention are to meet at Windsor, in June next.
Extrad of a letter from KnoxviUe, dated November
2 </, 1792.
" We arc all under aims in (his country, in
opposition ro a part ot the Cherokee and Creek
Indians, who have proclaimed war againfl the
United States, and have committed many hof-
and depiedations > 011, our frontier inha
bitants : but meeting with <* pretty warm re
pulfc in an attack they made on one of our fron
tier stations, losing several of their head men,
and doing 110 damage to the whites in the station,
h«s caused them chiefly to return home ; whe
ther to embody in largt 1 mimbcrs, or*not, is un
certain. We keep ourfelvcs in nadir.ffs for
them if they should come.
** There are, at this time,above 1500 militia of
our territory, in service under Continental pay."
A Corre(])onde!it fays, that as tlie fubje'ft of
a'bartkrnpt lawisyiow before CongreP:, a
c«nlmittefc|iavirigwei] appointed to prepare
;uut report a bill, he bopeijjie present feflion,
though (hort, will not be fhffered to f) ; p away
without serious attempts to bring the business
to letne iifue.
more than J' cfltv ,' P Cr,^s «* "'tie
natu e it—ln,t *7 pCr ' er ' cc * onc "»
nuiiicrcus 1™?","""* " tl:e
io»Kine to the. are !Ulx;u "f»y
ar< n„? , e .^ hl - li " yi erratic ut Cor «•),€,;
l"pe tuactr th.-ir a ,' *
ci fl, - t UK »d
-- Iron, Al.u ici:xs, tht c'tv „t' «,«.» i-t
American wohM havt been a : ready to , eB 4
;<®u>' a. ( <l grara to Mavieiifcs, apd
Frante, us tlrtfy wrt- once to
to Boston : for France is now ai inuciia ,Ul
ferer ,„ the,,- Ciiu f e> ,s Boft.m v,a. f w ,._
Houevc,, as t!,c French alk nut tin- jniK 0 f
prnvHiom, but only resell a. fuft.lv at a
need ?' m; " lcet ' tne aviric:o,u
h-!f Th 9 : M thyt >' «cefflfry i.<,
that the hiifinefsot ienduig l„th i'upply, Jh eu :|
not be left to the pictaricus and ungenerous
mode, which may be adopted by mo
liopolizuig (peculatoi sin fl our and graw. ,
COMMUNICATIONS.
Tbe industry ofthe enemies of the govern
mc"t to low t he ieeds of jealousy anci discord,
nan been manifeft in alnioft every newspaper
and ill every diftrift oi' our country. A u ri
tej- in one of tlie daily papers of this week,
lias given an nncoriiroon turn to his antifede
ralifci. He fays—Mr. Adams is a Monarchy
man, Mr. Clinton an Anti. The ca'e is la
mentable—but one or the other mult beVice
cfident. It leenis as it the drift of the
piece was more to give the people a dreadful
opinion of a geVcrnmeiit w'.irn c rut. he
kept out oi very improper hand , tl. ,Nt; re
commend a favorite candidate K ..t he w indi
up, inconfnleiitly enough, %vitl. ;".ii'ur:„ (; us
that the amendments have made Gov. ( ;. ii
a very good fcderaliil —-Such a friend to tie
constitution a: the writer uppears to be, may
ue Utis.'ied with i.ich a lale-mede federalifta*
'°v. Clinton—the fcdcrahjts twill prefer Mr.
Adams.
Shortly to be put 10 the press, a Treatise
clearly deinonlti ating that the advocates for
a government of Kiv.g, Lords a c Commons.
ar« ~,>t only the friend*, but the or.ly fricads
to the Conditution of the United States ; and
that every man who ealis himfelf a tcdiratiji,
and yet denies, rhi. portion, is either an iduot
or a hypocrite—(pjT In an appendix, will Le
a proper comparifbu of the political creeds of
Mr. A. and Gov.C. wherefrom it will appear,
that the fiinple alteration desired by IVL\ A.
from a republican to a morarchcel government,
is much left con£derab|e than t!*e various
amendments infilled on by Gov. C, in relath n
to trhriT Jy jyry, rYe.aoin Oi the \n. .
ltanding armies, &c. &c. which cou'.d uot but
derange and Cisfigure the whole iiru&me i 4
aspect of the l"
'!tem.
Wh'.'e fonie egregious politicians have been
clamouring for a change of meaiures, and pro
pljelving a change of men—it appears rather
more than probable, that they bave calculated
among theni Telvet., without coufnlting the
temper of the peop e, and there tore may ex
pert a double difappointinent-—for in caies
where re-elections have not taken place, the
ciioice has been of truly federal chara<Rers in
refpetf to new candidates. It may appear to
be absurd to lav that party will clamour with
out a lubjed—but it is a truth-—Thus u emp
ty veiTels make the gieateft found."
A republic is said to be founded on virtue ;
but it we may believe our fault finders, what
ever may be the fouuduiitm, the jnfirjtrvduie of
the American republic conffts of the vilest
materials —According to vhefe icimaculate
reformers, nothing can exceed the venality,
avarice and amlitioi: of thole me,; who con
ftitnte the majoiity in the government, and
its administration, through the fuffra.jes ef
the people ; and for aught that appears to the
contrary, wiil enjoy their approbation for
years to come. Eutifit is not patriotic to '
doubt the integrity, ftigmat ze the motives,
and depreciate the abilities of those who pos
sess in an eminent degree, the confidence of
the people, pray what is patriotism J
The enemies of government have pretend
ed that they regard measures ard not men.—
It appears however that one great emjof their
labors was to difpiace the Vice-Prefdent—
They have said also, arid it was eafer to fay
than for others to believe, that they are fede
ral—tho' they have feribbled againfl every
thing, they are for the couftitution. They
would not mar ii—they would not break a
twig of the federal tree. Yet, fays stubborn
fac't, they would chiife a man who would have
laid the axe to its root.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED *r Ut PORT ij PHILAC i hhlA.
Brig Pomona, Baird, St. Croix
Trion, Cheefeman, Boflou
Minerva, Morgan, Jamaica
Bct/ey, Mnrir, N. York
Sclir. Molly, Seklon, Salenj
Kliza, Wallace, Port-au-Prince
Neptune, Hodge, St. Euftatia.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cci. ts, .*°f9
3 per Cent,, xtf
Deferred, Jr 15/ •
Fuil<(liare» Bank U. S. 4o». prr Mot.pr*».
t°» K * ' ■# 'From the New-Ytrk Daily Gazette.
7ht following Seng, comfofed by one of the
Members of the St. Andrew Society, for
the occasion of celebrating the Annivcrfrry
Fcitival of their Tutelar Saint, on the
30th nil. ivtuJung by the author, and zuas
received hv the Society with that approba
tion its due.
Tit hick welcome, thapleafmg occaiion that calls
The Sons of St. Andrew, 011 :e more, (palls,
With love of their country, which changc never
To rejoice on Columbia's (hore :
In fwsst social mirth, let us clieerful combine
Nor purt)% nor fidioi; deftri-y
The tie-that unites us in fricudihip d'vinc,--
And elates evety boiem with joy.
Blind prejudice,hence,fromthcfewallsquickly fly 1
And re I.fort fevcrc, be our guide; [high,
Tho' in Europe's proud annal-, old Scotia ranki
In her virtues alone be our pride ;
Our Saint and blrfs'd patron, no politics taught,
'Twashis million to fotten the heart,
Hisdo&rines with love andberjvolcnce fraught,
No partial inftrudions impart.
Yet if Tons in the glory of fires may lie vain,
The records of lame shall declare, (tain,
Howourunceltorsfought, their beftrightsto fuf-
And the laurels of vigors to (hare', [in chains,
"When Romo,con<i'rmg Rome, half the globe held
'Gatnfthcrlegions, [plains
Repell'd the bai'e yoke from their hills and their
Courting death and defeifing to yield.
Thro*ages, jmfullyM, tneir valour hasflione,
But valour's the leall of their praise, [won,
Their country is iirew'd with the garlands they
And the mufev have crown'd rhem with lays :
Simplicity, truth and affe&ion c ndear
Old Caledon's heath,and bleJc shore ;
May wewhohave wander'd, still honest, sincere,
Our country's fair virtues adore.
O'erthc wide rolling ocean by fortune convey'd,
T© climes, where bright Liberty reigns,
May the worth, by ourfathers, so often difplay'd,
Ever glide in their emigrant train,
Whither born or adopted Columbia's Tons,
'Tisoursin her plans to unite,
Hedefervesnot her favours, who haughtily shuns
The toil of supporting h 1* right.
While the copious horn of plenty supplies,
With richest profufion our board,
May wethinkof the wretch whoin solitude sighs,
And a boon from our union afford :
O long be it ours, in the regions of woe,
To diffiife the foft balm of relief,
To lessen the ills that from penury flow,
And dry up the channels of grief.
[hand,
With the good and the brave, let us join hand in
The throne of fair freedom to guard.
With honour to fall, or with Liberty Hand,
Independence, our glorious reward;
Should tyrants alTail the fvveetgift we receiv'd,
Trueardour (hallfwell every breast,
And the actions of old,on our mountainsatchiev'd
Revive on the plains of the weft.
From the MaJfjfhuJetts Magazine,
'ACRED TO THE MEMORY OF
JOSEPH CLARKE, Es<^.
veafurer-General oj the Stare oj Rhode-IJl'ind.
INFLEXIBLY upright, this good man trod,
With firm unvarying Hep, the mora] :
Just to his iellow-nun, hnn'elf, his G«>d,
His spirit bade the king of terrors hail.
Sleep, take (by reft", the toils of life a»e done,
Soon (hall the unclouded morn arifc,
And deathless virtue's cvei lucid fun
Forever gild, for thee ferrner skies.
Ther&lhall thv mortal worth, to view confeft,
Anvu the mjultons ihc blelt,
By heaven's appending smiles approv'd,
Shew to the fpints of the: pcrtett just,
That lie, whofc number mourn thy Fainted dust,
Spake only truth of him hi* bosom lov'd.
If'ESTERN INT ELL IGENCE
RICHMOND, Nov. 26
A gentleman jufl returned from
the fputh western territory, has fa
vored us with the following infor
mation :
_ O" Sunday the 41)1 inft there ar
rived at Knozville eight Indians
from the Cherokee nation ; three of
tl efe were prir.dpai chiefs, viz.
The Standing Turkey, the War
rior's Son of KfhVtlaula, and the
Hanging Maw, from the beloved
town of Ghota. The object of their
Vmrrev was to hold a sulk withGo
-vernor Blount ; to ad'ure him of the
pacific <!ifjwfition of their nation,
and to requeil that they may befuf
iered to iiunt without niolellation.
On Saturday the tenth, thty were
lafely ctindutfed to the bank of the
river, opposite to the town of Coy
•ties, 011 their veinrff home, bv Ma
jor George Fmrogood, and a party
of gentlemen.
i lie Btiva party of Indians stole
eight h-orfes from Gamble's flat ion
about 12 miles from KnoxHlle. '
On Friday the ninth, two regi
ments of territorial troops, under
the command of Colonel Landon
Carter and Col. Gilbert Chriltian,
marched from Knoxville, to guard
the iVomie'is, and to build forts and
llations Between the Papo Fold and
the juii(stiou of the Clinch and Te
lle ft e.
To the honour of our weft em bre
thren, let it that of
the 1 wo regiments above-mentioned,
(even companies were entirely c»m
pofed of volunteers, armed aiid
equipped at their own (txpeiic£.
On Saturday the lOth, Gefits*al
Sevier pui fired his route from Knox
ville, escorted by a troop of horfif,
raised in Greene county, and com
manded by captain Jamej Richard
son, to take the command of the
frontier army, now amounting to
from twelve to fifteen hurfdi ed men.
Our informant mentions, that this
troop of horse, though
embodied, were at leaflf *iqual in
inajply and martial appearance, as
well as in their uniform,'hel"fes,and
other equipments, to any corps of
horse he ever law in the regular
continental or European armies.
On Monday the 12th, the hoofe
of lihenezer By rain,on Heaver creek,
(a branch os-Clinch) seven miles
from Knoxvirfc, was attacked in the
morning, about sunrise, by a party
of fifteen Cherokee Indites. Thev
beat in the window with (.heir roros
hawks, and presented two
but before they could observe their
destined vi&ims, Mr.. Byrstni and
Mr. Jefferies, the only two men in
the house, fired at the two Indians
who appeared at the window, when
they both fell, and the Indian party
immediately fled.
The gallant defenders of their
houfhold gods, then went out and
found one of the Indians dead, who«(
theyfcalped ; they afterwards track
ed the fugitives about two miles, fy
the blood of their woanded compa
nion—here they found a confidcrt
ble quantity of blood,*fome human
flefh and splinterS of bones j at this
fpoi thej ftippofed the wounded In
dian expired, aud was carried off
by his aftbeiates, as the bloody «£ck
was no longer vifibje,
Thus the cGol bravery of two re
foluce men not only saved their
own lives, but preserved a number
of women and children, who were
at the time in the haufe, from th#
butchering cruellies of these re
niorfeJefs savages. It deserves to
be noticed, that Mr. Byram is up
wards of sixty years of age.
. Notwithftandingthe contiguity of
these depredations to tho feat of ter
ritorial government, the inhabitants
feeni as unapprehensive of danger
as the citizensof Richmond are, and
it was with difficulty that Governor
Blount, who lives in a retired house,
about a mile froin Knoxville, could
be prevailed on to accept of a
guard, which he limited to fix men.
The gentleman who has obliged
us with the above inre!]ig?nrr, h«s
brought to this city the lcalp of the
Indian killed in the attack on Mr.
Byram's house.
By the custom-house return from
Bermuda Hundred, it appears that
the total amount of the merchan
dise imported and entered there
from the firft of July to the thirti
eth of September la(fr, is 824,592 dol
lais and cents.—And the amount
of goods exported duritlg the fame
peiiod, is 526,280 dollars and 04
tents.
Yeflerday morning died, John
Fleming, in cor.sequence of a wound
in the head, which he received from
Kemp, a few evenings iince ;
ihe ablconded, but we
are informed, that diligent featch
is now making afrer him.
1 H r'u^ l " rOR ~ 10 UIS SIUjSCKIBtiiS
fHh Arrearage. oj Subfcriptio.s for this
n<Jic been Jor a tun, Tl-e ex.
pt'tes of the pub/, eat, 0 „ are gnat and inevitable, and
„o W a„ nv a!hamour ted to m»ch«o», M„„ „, f
ye,e,pt> Jor futj ,rm>ons- the eons, etuews
0 ru ..b'ar has vo other r,jga„tthmt',or t
the debt i be his beer, obhZd
the Mlit-atiov *
H. /, tie,eye vecefatatei to repeat bu atllj c „
TZ,'%" r, 7 rc "T d /'* np """ *"« »
r'V'r" " '"**! *>*"»«<>«> "Jbon as
./' >- cl 'P ls - tee iontmuatim of-this Haiette,
**" » <*/»:
220
Agreeably to the Seventh Article of their
Confttution,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
rpo the Membn s of the Infur'ance Company of
JL Koith-America, that Fbrty Thousand Shades
are (libfc'ribed ; and that a Genera! Meeting of
the Subfcribera if to he held at the State-Houle
in tins city, on 10th iult. at 10 o'clock, A. M.
when the l)ire£Vors are to he ehofen.
£ KKN E r /.i- R HAZARD, Secretory.
f"/T The holders of Certificates in the late
Toiuine Affnciation, who intend to become
members of the Insurance Company, are
defirid to Cc.l! at No. 145, Arch-ftxeet. where
their fubferipynns will be received, and a pre
ference given to them, nr\til the 12th intt.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Pm 1 la oilph i a, November to, : 792.
r T" , HB Stockholders of the Bank ot the United
X States are hereby informed, that according
to the ilatute of incorporation, a general ele&ion
lor twenty-fiy.e Diiediis w»ll be held at the Bank
il i'ie Unu<d Stales, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the kvciith day of January next, at
ten o'otock in the forenoon.
And puifuantothe eleventh feftion of the
Bye-Lav s, the Stockholders of the laid Bank are
hereby uiotifi< d to assemble in general meeting
at the (ante place, on Tuesday the eighth day of
January text, at five o'clock in th«? evening.
By or<jer of the Prefidcnt and Dire&nrs,
EOWEN's EXHIBITIONS OF
w ax- Work & Paintings,
ARE open every day and evening (Sundays
excepted) at the House lately occupied
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eight h-ftreet.
First Room—Contains upwards of* 100
-decant Paintings, arid about 3 0 "Wax Figures,
»n full stature—among which are Likenelles
of a number of the principal characters in
America; 341011 Trenck in chains, an Indian
Chief, and fe vera) beautiful young Ladies of*
different States, die. &rc.
Second Room—Contains eighteen large
Wax Figures, which form a Sociable Club,
or the Oyster Supper ; and the School for
Scandal, conlifting of twelve female Figures,
making their nbfervations 011 a young Lady,
whwhad eloped with a Footman.
Admittance One Quarter of a Dollar each
Room.
GEOGRAPHY.
Mathew Carey
Refpcftfully fubmiu to the C.tizens of the United
States, the following
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUR SC R IPTI O N
An AMERICAN EDITION oj
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED.
f Of.which theft are the terms :
1. T1 (hall be pubjifhed in 48 wceklv numbers,
A each containing thiee thefts, or 1 wenty.four
pi£es, ol letter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine pupei.
H. In the rourfe of the work will bedelivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame size as thofc
in the European editions, viz. mod of them iheet
maps, on post paper.
(PT Beside 1 the mips in the British editions, this
work u/Hl contain naps of as many of the United Slates
as can be readily procured, executed by the bcjlengrav
ers in the United States.
II I. she price ot < ach number will be a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery. JV„ ua
vance requite 4.
IV. The win k will be put to press as foot) as
7CO copies are fubfciibed for.
V. Subfciibcrs who difapprovc ol the work, on
the publication of the three firft numbeis, are to
be at liberty to return them, and shall have their
money lepaid.
VI. The fubferibers' names (hall bp prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking'.
Perhaps there no science more entertaining
and u'eful than geography. It reveals the disco
veries of travellers—the remai kablc cui iofities of
ai! in nature and art—the fttuaiion ol
provinces, cities, towns, villages, rivers, & moun
tains in fine, the hiltory, manners, cuftotns, laws,
fotces, revenues, and government of different na
tions.
It is an Old ohfervation, that " there is not a
foil or of Adam, but has some concern
with %'cogi3jj»hy and that a knowledge of this
fcicnce is indlfpcnfable towards the study of his
tory with advantage or fatisfaflion. Indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannot discourse an the
njoft common newspaper topics of the day without
betiaymg Ins ignorance.
So much lor geography generally. With rc
fpc6t to the prcfent plan, let it luffice to remark,
that GuU»rie's Geography lia.s been long acknow
ledged to be the b«ft in the Englilh language ;
however, the account ot America in it has, from
obvious rcafoßi, been very erroneous and defec
tive. The er.ors of former editions will be cor
:'Cfcled,ond the defects supplied, by gentlemen of
abtbun, who iiave enjaged to fuperiniend this
and io avmi thcmfclves of all the in
orniation that can be procured, to r«nder it the
in«.H complete edition exuut.
The Primer earneftlv folicjts the support of his
k llow-cttizi ns throughout the United Stales : and
f»« no dcpout is required, and every fubfcriher will
beat .tuerty to withdraw his name,, if, on trial,
he lliocld, disapprove of the work, he hopes the
ritntls of faience. and of American arts and raa
nufjftures, will cheerfully and eai ly patronize this
ufefnl work, the grritcft and most expensive, pro
bably, ever yet attempted in America, in thetyp..-
g'aohieal line, the £ne.yclopc<iia excepted.
Philadelphia, Nov. 2, 1792. (tawtf)
advertisement.
ftTTkii Gazette iipuHiJhedin North Filth-Street,
A■. 34, between nigh and Mulberry it, eet,—where
tne bait or twtu refidrs.
A LARGE, CELLAR TO LET,
Sujcien:ly cajraatHs to (lor K ;a'cru( hundred lands.
Enquire as above.
JOHN KEAN, Calhier.
Stock Brokers
-pHK Subscriber intending to coi::' ine himfclf
1 entirely m the PURCHASE.and \LI
STOCKS o« COMMISSION, B,u, v, .o'ort"
his lei vices to hisfrnnd-, .. d ott , . theli„i
ofa Stock Broker. Those vi !:o may pleafo
;vor hiin with tit -ir bufincff, «i;, v depend u ro Ti
having a tranfafted wither, utmoll <ic-!itv ~ ,t
d irpdtc h. ' y J " d
Order.- I'rom Philadelphitf.Bofton, or any other
part of tnc United Stalo wijl be ftriftly a, tt „
ed to.
LEON AH Q BLEECIIKR,
Mat 'j.
N E W T E A S.
IMPERIAL,HYSON & SOUCHONG^
Otthever) fit li quality, and lafeft lfrrpoilJTKUt
from Canton, tu Newly oik, by ituil.at ..
No. 19, .
Third, between Chtfmn and Market Sricett.
N. B. A few lioxel of tkt above H YSOfa.-
To the Public.
TH-. fubfciil?r r begs leave to acquaint rhe pu _
he in general, and his eußbincis in paiT;,:u
lar, that '.e his entered into paitneifhi'p wich
Mr. HENRY KAMMERER, . .ul that .he Pric
ing business in the Er.glilh and German lunjuic-s
isirnwciirii.d «n under ib< firm .»i' STEINtR
and KAMMF.RER, No. 8,5, in Rare.-ftie'tt," be
tw- en Second and fhud-ttrcetf.
The Go nun N< w!p..pe r will be put (brd by
them, »» u)ual,on Tin f.).p, s a„d ,>j k,„rt of P.
lug work done with care .111 fxerc n.
MEtCHIORSTJ&INER.
Nov. 6, 1792.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Bookseller ,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & (IWFSHAXK.
John Gould,
HAIR-DR E S S E It,
INFORMS his friends and the public MJeple»
ral, that he continues to carry Onfaisbafifieft
as usual, at No i, South Tbird-Street, nwi
Market-Street, and thanks his fortjercuftoGjcri
for the favors he has received.
Said Gould has for sale, an infallible cure for
I Weak or Sore Eyes, which on trial, has and wiFf
jHe found to answer the purpose.—He has it in
! vials from one quarter of a dollar to w dollar.—
j Any person trying the above, if not found ro
; answer tlie character given, the money uillbe
returned
A further Caution.
A LL per ons arc hereby cautioned from receiv-
IX ing of Thomas Mackic & Co. or any othrr
p?rfon, four Notes of Hand, given hv the late
Jama Gardner, of Wilmington, North-Cat olios,
to Samuel Jackfvn, of Philadelphia, ail bearing da e
the 19th July, 1785, amounting in the whole to
£. 2,600 jo 3 North-Carolina cuirency ; thfc
grcatelt pari of which fjid Notes have been paid
to said Thomas Madid &. Co. :n proof of wh ir -h
the fubjeriber? have the depofuion of Mr. Jafpcr
Mauduit Jackson, and other document* which will
fully and clearly illulti ate the matter.
It is therefore expected that this notice, with
the one adveriifid in this papei in May and June,
1 79*> vvi 11 be a furocient caution to the public.
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, [ Executors.
MAR. R. WILLKINCS, )
Wilmington, (N. C.) Aug. 1, 1792. (laahgm)
TO BE SOLD,
A Plantation,
LYltfG o.» ;Lc river 7 r .i
J Trenton, containing 165 acrcs ; whereon is
a d veiling-hotife, yleafantly firuated, 36 by 24 feet,
hsving three rooms with fire-places on the lower
floor, and four above, one of them with a fire
place ; a kitchen adjoining, near to which is a re
mai kable large fpimgof < xccllent w-ater, accom
modated with a good spring-house ; a ba»n 36 feet
by 26; a waggon, chair and fmoke-iioufes, befidee
other ufeful out-buildings ; a larg- orchard, chufly
of grafted fruit. The faun is well watered, and
has a proportion of wood and meadow land, thro'
which the road runs that is known by the name
of the River Road.
On the Premises is also ere&ed,
A Grift-Mill,
In the midst of a good wheat country, on a never
failing stream ; the mill-house is by 24 feet,
has one water-wheel, a pair of burrs and a pair of
Cologne (tones, rolling screen, bolts for merchant
and country work, See. and i accommodated with
a cooper's shop, 18 feet square, near the mill—
which is about 300 vards from the Delaware, and
very conveniently situated to receive wheat, See.
from boats palling down the river.
There are also for Sale,
2 o* Acres of Wood-Land,
within less than a quarter of a mile of the above
mentioned Plantation, which lies in a fine hieh
healthy country.—For terms apply to the fub
fenber on the prcmifes,
Trtvfcp, Oflebcr, 179 2,
TO BE SOLD BY TtlE EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold—
graduat<d according to J.aw—Blank Manift-Oi—
And Blanks for the various Powers o* Attorney
tv ctflary in rranfa&iiig Buiincfs at the Treafuiy or
at the Hank of the United States.
JOHN MOTT.
(l3W4t)