A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 97, of Vol. lII.]
SECOXD CONGRESS or the UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city ol Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
sylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, ane
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT to provide for the fertlement of the
Claims of Widows and Orphans barred by
the limitations heretofore eftablilhed, and to
regulate the Claims to Invalid Pensions.
Section I.TJE it enacted by the Senate and House of Repre
tl fentativrs of the United States of America in
CoiK'refs assembled, That the operatioh of the resolutions of th-
JateCongrefs of the United States, passed on the second d >y <v
November. one thousand feden hundred and eighty-five, and th
twenty-third day of July, one thouland seven hundred and eighty
feven so iar as tliey have barred, or may be construed to bar tht
claim's of the widow or orphans of any officer of tbe late army,
to the seven years half pav of such officer, (hall, from and after the
Billing this act. befufpended for and during the term ot two years
S«c-a. And be it further enacted, That anv commissioned of
fittr not having received the commutation of half pay, and any
■00-'-ommiffiohed officer, soldier or seaman, disabled in the ac
tual service of the United States, during the late war, bv wounds
or other known cause, who did not dclert from the said , f rv,ce >
/hall be entitled lo be placed on the penlion lift of the Unite
States, during life or the continuance of such difabilitv, and mail
also be allowed such farther Turn for the arrears of pension, from
■he time of such difabilitv, not exceeding the rate of the annual
allowance, in consequence of hb disability, as the circuit court ot
ihediftrift, in which they refpeGively reside, may think jult.
■Provided, That in every such cafe, the rules and r-gulations fol
lowing (ball be Complied with ; that is to fay s—Fit ft. Every
applicant (ball attend the court in person, except where it iha
be certified by two magistrates that he is unable to do so, and lhall
produce to the circuit court, the following proofs, town A
certificate from the commanding officer of the (hip, ' r S' m I cn ''
corns orcompany, in which he lerved, setting forth his disability,
:.nd'that he was thus disabled while in the service of the Uniteo
States; or the affidavits of two credible witness sto the fame elicit;
The affidavits of three reputable freeholders ot the city, town, or
■county, in which he refutes, ascertaining of their own know
ledge, the mode of life, employment, labor, or means of support
of such applicant, for the lad twelve months. Secondly.
The circuit court, upon receipt of the proofs aforefaid, (ball forth
with proceed to examine into the nature of the wound or ° lh "
cause of disability of such applicant, and having afeertained the
degree thereof, (hall ceitify the fame, and transmit the result ot
their enquiry, in cafe, in their opinion, the applicant (hall be put
on the pension lift, to the Secretary at War, together with their
opinion in writing, what proportion of the monthly pay of luch
applicant will be equivalent to the degree of disability afceriainc
in manneT aforefaid. .
Stq. And be it further enacted, That the Clerk of the dil
trlft court, in each rtiftrift, (hall publish this ast in such manner as
the judge of the diftrift court (hall think effe&.ial to give general
in f ortn»tiaiithereof to the people of the diftrift. and (hall give
like information of the times and places orf holding the circuit
courts in such diftrift. And in diflrifts wherein a circuit court
is not dire&ed by law to be holden, the judge of the di Uriel court
lhall be, and he hereby is authorized to exercise all the P 0 *" 5
given by this ast to the rrfpeftive circuit courts. And it lhall be
iheduty of the judges of the circuit courts refpeftivelv, during
the term of two years from the palling of this ast, to remain at
'he places where the said courts (hall be holden five days at the
least, from the lime of opening :he feflions thereof, that perlons,
disabled as aforefaid, may have full opportunity to make their ap
plication for the relief proposed by this act.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That the Secretary at War,
upon teceipt of the proofs, certificate and opinion aforefaid, (hall
cause the fame to be duly filed in his office, and place the name of
such applicant on the penlion-lift of the United States, io con»orm
ity thereto: Provided always, That in any cafe, where the said
Secretary (hall have cause to fufpeft imposition or mift-ke, he lhall
have power to withhold the name of such applicant from the pen
iion-lift,and make report of the fametoCongrels at their nextfeffion.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That all non-commifliooed
officers, foldiera and seamen, disabled in the actual service of thr
United States, during the late war, whose disability and rate of al
Jowance have been afeertained, purluant to the regulations pre-
Icribed by the late Congress, and have not applied to be placcd
on tbe pension lift, until after the lime, limited by the ast of Con
gress for that purpose, was expired, (hall now be placed on the
veauon lift, and be entitled to demand and receive their rt fpec
tive pensions, according to the allowances afeertained as aforefaid,
any thing tn this ast, or any ast of the late Congress, to the con.
trarv, notwithstanding.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That from and after th
paflineofthisaft, no faie, trans'er or mortgage of the
any part of the pension or arrearages of pension, payable io anv
non-com mifiioned onicer, soldier or seaman, before thefame (hill
become due, (hall be valid. And every person, claiming luc!-
penlion or ari ear* of pin lion, or anv part thereof, under powei
of attornev or substitution, lhall. before the fame is paid, make
oath or affirmation before fomc iullice of the peace of tlie place
where itir l.ime is pavable, '.hat "such power or fuhfliiutinn is no;
given by 1 cafon ol any transfer of such petition, or arrears of p n
lion, and any peifon, who (hall swear or affirm falfelv in rhe pre
mises, and be thereof convifteci, (ha'.l fuffer, as lor wilful and cor
supt perjury
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Moult of fleprefentaiii'ci.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejidcnt oj the United StJtes,
and Prejiderit oj the Senate.
Ar?KOVtD, MARCH T»I TWE N T V-T HI« n. fjqf.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President cf the United States.
Saturday, March 51, 1792.
(ci RCU L AR.)
Boston (Mejjuchufetts) Fcbiuury 28, 1792,
SIR,
WE have had the honor to be appointed a Committee, by the
Officers the Malfachufetts line of the late Army, to at
end to and pro (ecu te their memorial 10 the Congress of the United
States, on the of compensation tor the lofles fuftamed by
ihem and the soldiers who served daring the war, in consequence
of the lingular manner tn which their services have been acknow
ledged and requited by the United States.
By a letter b-aring date June 1, 179s yoti were informed of
the measures adopted in pursuing that object, and that a memorial
was prefentrd to Congress on the fuhjeft ot our complaint.
Finding that no reltef has been afforded, or as far as our infor
mation extends, contemplated, and convinccd that there is a just
debt as vet undischarged on the part of Govei nment, our determi
nation is to icpeat our application, and reallert our claim, until
we obtain consideration and relief; or until it shall be declared by
'he voice of the United States in Congress, that our claims are vi
sionary and without foundation; and that a hard-earned bona fide
drbt can be honorably and iuftly cancelled by certificates receiv
ed in the firft instance bv a kind of compulsion, alienated in most
cases from neceflity, unsupported by funds,and palling in exchange
lor only a (ixth or an eighth ot their nominal value.
To the pursuit of this measure we are urged by a convi&ion
•hat our request is founded on the immutable principles of realon,
equity and justice, by a sense of duty to ourfclves, and more espe
cially to those faithful companions of the war, who served under
our command ; whole difperled and embarrassed circumstances
preclude them fiom application, and in whose behalf we arc bound
to appear by every princi pie of dffeft on and gratitude.
Should it be obieded that the claim has lain dormant and may
have fuffered diminution, we would observe, that if America had
been conquered by Britain, neither lite, liberty, or retribution,
would probably have been ihe lot of many of the present appli
cants. To have preferred the application in any ot the years of
public embarralTment which succeeded the peace, when the go
vernment and finances of the coun'ry wanted energy and even ex
istence, would have comported neither with the iuterefts nor cha
racter of the army. The records of the old government contain
ample and frequent acknowledgment* that the services have been
faithfully performed on one part, together with an nnivtrfai dis
position to remunera'e them. And the public inability is the true
and only source to which the failure on the part of government
can be attributed. urn. r
The prefrnt government was iuftitnted for the ettablithment of
iuftice among other great objcss. To this end they potfefs the
power and ability. And as we have every confidence in the libe
rality and justice of the existing admimftration, we solicit their
final decision on the merits of our cause.
To facilitate the object of our w'.fhes, we have judged it expe
dient to depute an Agent to Congress, to attend to and exolain
the nature of our application. On the twentieth day of March
next, he will be in Philadelphia for that purpose ; and this com
munication. which we beg you to take theearlteft opportunity to
make known to the Officers belonging to ) our S'.ate, is m *?e to
acquaint you with our determination, that, it you should think 11
expedient to adopt correspondent measures, our attempt may re
ceive the aid of vour advice and afliftance.
To form a Convention of Officers from all the States, in order
to consult and agree on a joint application, has been a favorite ob
with many ; but taking every confidcration into view, we
have preferred the mode now adopted, and we hope it will meet
with your approbation.
General Wi l li am Hull, the person whom we have choten
for our Agent, will give his constant attendance in Philadelphia
during .he present feflion of Congress ; and we beg to rccommend
him to your attention and afliftance.
With fcntimcnts ot rcfpefl, we ire,
Sir,
Your most obedient Servants,
(copy.)
FROM THE WASHINGTON SPY,
Publithed at Elieabrth-Town, Maryland.
A WRITER in the Winchester paper, speak
ing of Col. Darke, thus concludes—" From
authority, we learn, that through his means the
remains of our little army were saved from fall
ing a prey to the ravages ofthe wildeinefs—and,
through his means, were those on the brink ot
famine in Fort-Jefterfon, made to taste the bread
of comfort.—Americans, conscious of the servic
es he had rendered their country, in every town
—in every village—joy beamed on the counte
nances of boih old and young, when they beheld
him fafe : how different was their conduci, not
many weeks ago, when one in a moie exalted
station travelled the fame road, and from the
fame place—nought but hidings and murmurings
were then heard does not this plainly evince,
that even back woods-men arc yet capable of dif
tinguilhing, and discovering, that "there is some- |
thing rotten in the Hate ot Denmark."
A correspondent thinks the very reverse—that
those sagacious gentlemen, who behaved in that
lidiculous manner, to the commander in chief,
are not capable of distinguishing between mo
dell and silent, though unfortunate merit, and
that ofthe bombaltic egotill.' By a number of
publications froin that quarter, one would be in
duced 10 believe, that, though Gen. St. Clair 101 l
the day, in the late engagement, Col. Darke won
it; or that he secured the retreat— when the
385
W. HEATH,
J. BROOKS,
H- JACKSON,
W. EUSTIS,
J. CROCKER,
T. EDWARDS.
tit&o
[Whole No. 505.]
brave Major Cla. i-
<lid perform tar." n 1 ir'.!o'.,r
Colonel purchaiei : -i-
to relieve the t ■ ,-juu i ;jl
as he only con; nandeti - eicr . . nvifioiis
which were ordered -.q thy place ; iisici nodoubc
but he was willing io obey tne order, and net the
less so on account of his valiant foil being in ilie
garrison. Notwithllar.rfiiig the feeble efforts of
paragi aphifts to dcp.cciaie tiic tame of Gen. St.
Clair, his long attelled integrity of heart, and
great military abilities will secure to him an il
lultrious and immortal name.
PORTLAND, (l)iltri<st of Maine) Match 8.
Ext raft oj a Utter.
" I fully agree with you, that ninety-five it
the proper lime for a reparation to take place;
and consequently, now is the time to begin the
proceft—-There is no time to spare, nor ought a
single feifion of the General Court to be lolt, be
fore regular Iteps are taken by the legislature to
effect the object
Maine will iiot be a contemptible state, either
in numbers or extent of territory—As to inhabi
tants, they will exceed Vermont', Rhode-island,
Delaware, Kentuckey, and Georgia—ln extent
of territory, as many more : and in progrel's of
increase, second to very few.
If at present they fall behind the other dates
i a companion of literature, andlcience, I mult
observe, thai the feeds of thelc are thick Town in
Maine, which already begin to put forth some
promising buds—Three Academies which are ef
tablifbed in Maine, with due attention to schools,
will abundantly furnifb that degree of general
knowledge among the great body of the people,
which mult always be the support of a free go
vernment. —While there does not exilt any lea
fon to apprehend a want of higher attainments
in the profefliotial branches of learning."
NEWPORT, March 10.
Extract of a Utter front a gent It matt in ProvidtnCt
t : /- . t • .f • * ' ""
J J - 0 — - -
tt hit frimd in thy town, dated March 4.
" The amiable and charitable Mr. Nicholas
3rown, Who it seems inherits his father's virtues
as well as his fortune, has, in addition to many
other liberal donations to charitable and public
uses, presented to the college of this State, the
sum of five hundred dollars to be laid out in law
books. His own account of which is contained
in the following letter."
" Sir,
" Under a deep impreflion of the generous in -
tentions of my honored father, decealed, toward*
the college of this town, as well as from my own
personal feelings towards the institution in which
1 received my education, and from a delii e to
promote literature in general, and in particular
the knowledge of the laws of our country, un
der the influence whereof not only our property
but our dearell privileges and lives are protect
ed— I have thought proper to give the Truflees
and fellows of Rhode-Island College the funi ot
five hundred dollars, to be laid out in law books
for the ufeofthe collegc. It is my wish that you
communicate this information to the corporation
ot the college at their next meeting. I have de
sired Mr. Howell to furnilh the catalogue, and
as a mark of the eUeem of our family for that
gentleman, as well as in regard to the office he
holds in the college, the books on their arrival
are to be placed in his office, and there to remain
for his particular use, as well as that of the col
lege in general, so long as he may hold the oi
fice of Profelfor of Law in the College, and then
they are to be placed in the College Library.
I am your affectionate Cousin,
NICHOLAS BROWN.
John Brown, Esq. Treasurer of?
the College of Providence."
ALBANY, March 19.
From the great demand for sugar kettles of late,
we have real'on to hope that our premiums will
have a decisive good effect : Jhould the state en
large these bounties tor a few years, there can be
no question but this valuable branch will be firmly
established ; and it is well ascertained, that our
large foreits of maple trees, northward and welt
ward of this city, are abundantly fiifficient to
supply the whole demand of the United States
with this important article,
as oideted io,
iliac the
:l troops
- where
(Copy)
I'rtvidenct, Feb. 3, 1792.
dually\
CONGRESS.
VTTILAV) E L P H I A
HO USE 0 /■" R£PK E. 3 E NTATIVE $,
» '-•> -•, February 21, 1792.
IN .COM OF T9£.WKOLI. '
On thi fylilitia Bill. '
"Y/J~K.. Vi S\h 4H in file chair.—The fir It fee
"*■ , l '°" ' n & »euJ ">lr. SiurgeS said that he
conceived !oir.e anieacfcueiit was llijcetlary to this
iediion, h appeai-s t:. confidcr the militia of ihe
leveral Hates »>• he nilitia 01 the Union
whereas the-constitution considers it as, belong
ing to the respective itates—that the states alone
aie to fay of what description of persons ihe mi
ina fliail confilt, and who dial) be exempted from
militia duty—Congress have only power to or
ganize them, when thus designated. He there
fore moved that the fecftion should be amended,
by ttriking out the clause which he considered
qs involving the principle he was opposed to.
11. -jeney observed, that the consequence of
me gentleman's motion would be, to render the
powei of Congress in organizing, arming, and dif
ciplining the militia, entirely nugatory.
Mr. Barnwell enlarged on the ideas fuggefled
by Mr. Seney. °°
Mr. Livermore made some general remarks on
f e terms u(ed 111 the constitution, to designate
the power ofCongrefc in refpec<t to the militia-
He contended that they were the molt vague and
indefinite that could pofiibly have been adopted.
He agreed fubltantially with Mr. Sturges. It is
the militia, laid Jhe, of the several Itates that
ongrefs have power to organize, and provide a
inode of difciphne for—lt is not a militia to be
ormed, or created, it already exists—He there
to,- thought it heft to leave it to the refpetfive
Itates to tnake their own militia laws.
Mr. Barnwell observed, that the consequence
of the gentleman s proposition, would be a total
want ot uniformity in the militia, and a clashing
from different milit.a fyflems. That it was in
vain to expeJt an effective militia, except Con
g.e s should exercise the powers lb expressly de
legated in refpeift to this business.
Mr Boudinoc observed, that from the experi
e""Co;frf las had in th e preceding feflions
of the d,ftcuk.es attending this bufineft, he was
ii y o opinion that a plan of conciliation alone
would ever procure a patTage through the
lature for a m.litia bill-He adverted to the pow
ers of Congress in this business, and to those re
ierved to the Rates—to the latter, he said was
- expressly reserved the power of appointing the
officers, and it they refufe ,0 do it" there fs 1
power 111 Congress to compel them. He there
ticutXtl WUI ? - he gendema n Connec
r!!l 111 °P lnioll ! tha t the law which
Congress fliall pass, must be very fin,pie in ks
ble. a " d ' efer C ° aS few ob as poffi!
Mr. Hillhoufe controverted the sentiments ad
vanced by Mr. Boudinot—He said the natural
in.eience was that Congress poflblles no power
« all >n the cafe ; for if what that gerXnan
advances is true, no provision that Congress can
[In,. ? . lllaC , Con g lefs virtue of the powers
the .nil'itia r em r e 7° wered t0 organize
the militia, to fay what descriptions, ages & c
the nulitia ihall consist of-to form them' into
cotnpan.es, Corps regiments, &e.-and tha t wl,e°
this is done, the states are to appoint the officers
for previous to Inch an organization, the states
cannot exercise the power of appointing the of
ficers. He hoped therefore thatUe would
not be agreed to-but that the committee would
proceed ... the business agreeable to the express
powers of the conftuution, and when they came
to the feOt.on making the exemptions, he hoped
they would make thein on a very liberal f-a'e—
that the militia Ihould confiit of fuel, persons as
would be capable of rendering service.
Mr. Wadfworth opposed the motion—He ob
feryed that the bufmeli had been managed in
fuel, manner, as to pare the bill „ ow under con
Iteration, down to such an inadequate, defective
fyfteui, that he did not feel much interested in
its fate—ft,ll he hoped the motion would no
prevail, for he considered it as better than no
provision at all He said that the militia of the
everal states ex,ft at the present moment more
by general con fen t of the persons forming thein
111 the feyeral states, than in confequence of any
laws of the particular states The people in f e
■veial states already avow the fentiinent, thatthev
think that Congress alone has the power to form
the ir.iliua. "
Mr. Sedgwick enlarged on the ideas of Mr.
Wadfwortli— lie further remarked that the a
mendment proposed would operate extremely
unequal—and would defeat the public expecta
tions of an efficient military defence, fu'ch an one
as was confident with a free government.
Mr. St urges supported his motion —He was sur
prized to liear gentlemen express their apprelien
fions that we should have no militia at all Ad
verting to the confutation, he explained what
he considered the meaning of organizing, &c.
it limply relates to forming, arming and arrang
ing in a particular way, those materials which
are furnifhed by the militia laws of the several
ftates—ln reply to the objections derived frorn
the inattention and aversion of the states, tofuch
requilitions as Congress may make, he said it
was not to be supposed that the states would be
so inattentive to the means of their own preser
vation, as to neglecft their duty in this refpetf.
, Mr. Niles supported the motion.
Mr. Murray observed, that in no particular
point of view was the people to be considered as
united for general purposes, more than in that
of the general defence. The militia contem
plated in the constitution, certainly does not
mean an existing militia ; for many of the states
have no militia nor militia laws—and therefore
the clause mull refpecft a militia to be formed or
created—He enlarged on the neceflity and wis
dom of the pro"ifion—The appointment of the
officers, he considered as being properly left in
the power of the states.
The motion was negatived.
. O
(TO pt COK'T tN U FD.)
•The Jolkxu'tng are the refutations proposed by Mr.
Fitzfimons, the aid inji.
Resolved, that it is the opinion of this committee,
lit. That the term for receiving on loan, that
part of the domestic debt of the United States
which yet remains unfubfcribed, be extended to
the firft day of September next, on the fame
terms as was provided by the act making provi
fion for the public debt bf the United Sta es.
2d. That provision ought to be made for pay
ment of the interest 011 the unfubfcribed part of
the domestic debt of the United States, to the
firft day of January, 1793, on like terins.as was
provided by the acft aforefaid.
3d. That the holders of loan-office certificates,
iflued between the firft day of Sept. 1777, and
firft day of March, 1778, be entitled to receive
interest thereon, at the fame rate as other non
fubfcribiug creditors of the United States, with
out being obliged to exchange such certificates.
4th. That the term for receiving on loan part'
of the debt of the individual States, aflumed by
the United States, yet unfubfcribed, be extend
ed to the firft day of September next, 011 the fame
terms as provided by the acS making provision
for the public debt.
sth. That a subscription for a farther loan in
the debts of the individual States, be opened and
continued to the firft day of September next, not
,to exceed in the whole millions of dollars,
in the proportions following, that is to fay :
In the debt of New-Hanipfhife, Maflachufetts,
fthode-Ifland, Connecticut, New-York, New-Jer-'
fey, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina,
Georgia. -Provided, That the interest on such
loan (hall not be payable before the day
of : And provided, That when the sum, to
be aflumed by any State, shall not be subscribed
by the holders of any of the evidences in which
the fame is made receivable, the State /hall not
be entitled to receive interest on the residue.
6th._ That the fubfcriptioi>s to the aforefaid
loans in State debt, be payable in such certificates,
bills, notes, and evidences of debt whatsoever
as shall have been ifi'ued by the respective States'
and by, the several coinmiflioners of loans of the
United States, 011 account of the excefles of the
funis subscribed in certain States bey ond the sums
heretofore aflumed for such States. Provided
That no such certificates, bills, notes or eviden
ces of debts of the refpedive States shall be re
ceivable upon the laid loan which, from the te
nor thereof, from any public record, acft or do
cuinent, shall appear or can be ascertained to
have been illued for purposes irrelative to com
pensations and expenditures for Cervices or sup
plies towards the profecuuon of the late war
and the defence of the United States, or of some
part thereof during the fame ; but this shall not
be construed to exclude any certificate, bill, note
or evidence of debt which shall have been ifTued
111 lieu or on account of any other certificate, bill
note or evidence of debt which was itlelf ifi'ued'
in relation to such compensations and expendi
tures. J
7:h. 1 hat the debt due to certain foreign of
ficers, the ,iitereft whereon is payable at the
of Grand, in Paris, be discharged out of
any monies obtained on loan, by the President of
the United States, in virtue of the art making
prov.fion for the public debt; which may now
be unappropriated.
Bth. That the interest on so much of the do
nieftic debt as lias been or may be pun-haled for
the United States, or as lhall be paid into ihe
3 86
Treasury, and f 0 much of the sum appropriate,!
for the payment of the interest on the ioreia
and domelhc debt as fliall be over and ,k g
what may be fufficient for the payment of f°7
inrerett, fhal Ibe appropriated in tlie firft place '
the purchase of tl.e part of the public debt whirl'!
bears an lnterelf of three per cent, per a'n„,
A ' ul the part of the said debt, the interett where
of ;s deferred until the said fund, with s uch ' '
dmons as may be made to it, (hall amount tor®,
per centum of the public debt, hearing a
it.terefl of fix per cent, per ann. until the wh„
(hall be redeemed. _ And thenceforth to be • n
plied to the pnrchal'eor redemption of whatever
part of the public debt may remain uudifchari; /
until the whole (hall be extinguished The f I
funds to be applied to .he purposes aforefJd U
the comniiuioneis hereafter mentioned under
the approbation of the President of the't/niied
States.
9 th. That be cominiffioners
for the purposes aforefaid ; and that a nrecT
account of all the debts redeemed, and of all
purchases by them made, be laid before the ] e
giflature within months after its firlfc meeting
in every year. , •
TUKSDAY, March 27
Ayes and Noes on Mr Giles's morion for infti
tunngan enquiry into the causes of the laie
defeat : '[Sie lajl Gazette.]
AYES.
MelTrs. A {he, Boudinotj Clark, Findley, Giles
Goodhue, Heifter, Kitchell, Lee, Macon, p aj r e '
arker, Schoonmaker, Seney, Sumpter, Sylvester'
Thatcher, Tread well, yenable, Ward, Willis—2l!
Mefl'rs. Ames, Baldwin, Barnwell, Benfon S.
Bourne, B, Bourne, Brown, Fitzfimons, Gilhi'an
Gordon, Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Bj|)l
lioufe, Huger, Key, Learned, Liveru.ore, Madi
son, Mercer, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray NiJes
Sedgwick, j. Smith, I. Smith, W. Smith,'Steele'
Sterrett,Sturges, Vining, Wbit£, Willia,nfon- 3 s
Ayes and Noes on xMr. Ficzfinvons' motion on
the fame fubjedt :
Meflrs. Afhe, BaUwin, B. Boiirne, S k Bourne,
Brown, Clarke, Kinilley, Firzfimons, Giles,; Gil
man, Gordon, Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Hartley,
Heifter, Huger, Key, Kitchell, Kittera, Lee, Li
vermore, Macon, Madison, Mercer, Moore, Muh
lenberg, Murray, Niles, Parker, Sedgwick, Seney,
J. Smith, Steele, Sterrett, Sturges, Sylvester,
Tread well, Tucker, Viuiug, Ward, White, Wil
liamfon, Willis— 44.
N O E S,
Messrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benf'iu, Goodhue,
Hillhoufe, Page, Schoonmaker, 1. Smith, W.
Smith, Sunipter,— 10.
A committee was accordingly appointed, con
filling of Mefll Fitzfimons, Giles, Steele, Mercer,
Vijiing, Clark, and Sedgwick.
WEDNESDAY, March 28.
A report from the Secretary of the Treasury,
was read, containing an abftradt of the exports
of the United States, and alio of the impoftand
tonnage duties, during one year, ending with
September laft.—Referred to a feleift committee.
Mr. Fitzfimons, from the committee on the
specie account of tiie Treasurer of the United
States, made a report, which was read, and laid
on the table.
Mr. Madison moved, " that it be an instruc
tion to the committee of seven, appointed yester
day, to consider the enquiry committed to tliein,
as confined tofuch circumstances, connected with
the late unfuccefsful expedition under Major-
General St. Clair, as may be requisite for the in
formation of the House."
The queflion, on this motion, palled in the ne
gative.
A message from the Senate, was delivered by
Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying that they had con
curred with the House in palling the bill for fi
ni/hing the light-house 011 Bald-Head, at the
mouth of Cape-Fear River, in the Hate of North-
Carolina.
A second mefiage informed the House, that the
President of the United States had notified l ' ie
Senate of his having this day approved and figneil
an A<ft, supplemental to the late Ac r t for the de
fence of the Frontiers.
Purfuanr ro die order of the day, (lie House re
folded itlelf into a committee of the whole—
(Mr. Seney in the chair) oil the report of i' ie
Secretary of the Treasury on the public debt.
T he firft of the resolutions proposed on the 22a
inft. by Mr. Fiizfimons, being taken into con!' -
deration—the word " September', was Itruckouf,
leaving a blank to be afterwards filled up.
Mr. Mercer moved further to amend the pro
portion, by striking out the words " on the font
terms," &c. to the end, and fubfliiuting iliefe
" And all persons, so subscribing, fliall receive
flock of the United States, for the pnncipaHuni
so subscribed, bearing an interest payable q»
terly of five per cent, per annum—and (lock of
the United States, for ihe inteiell due 011
noes,
A Y E S.principal at the time of fublcription, bearing an
interelt payable quarterly at the rate or" three
per cent, per annum, UHtil the principal iuui or
the laid ilock : : iall be .redeemed."
Id fopport of" this motion, >lr. Mercer spoke
aear an hour.
Mr. Madison, in lieu of the proposed amend
raent, offered the following: *
" Provided, That, instead of the terms con
rained in the a«ft making provision tor the public
debt of the United States, the fuhferibers {halli e
ceive certificates tor the joint amount of t tie prin
cipal and arrears of iuteretl fubfoibed ; whicli
certificates (hall bear an imereft equivalent toilie
terms contained in the laid act."
The fabje<st was warmly debated (ill the ofu.il
boor of adjournmeut, when the committee lose
and reported progress
II" o -
Mr. I. Smith, from the committee for enrolled
aills, reported that the coniuiitiee had waited on
ihe Prefideot of the United States, and preferred
to hitn, for bis approbation, the " bill eitablifli
inga mint, and regulating the cuius of the L ulled
icatts."
Mr. Sedgwick, from the committee appointed,
reported a bill in couformity to the refoiutions
adopted on Monday last, respecting the Ohio
Company. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, March 29.
The bill reported yeiterday pui fuant to the re
solutions 011 the memorial ot the directors ofthe
Ohio Company , was read the firlt and second time,
and committed to a cotuaiittee of the whole House
on Monday next.
The committee to whom was referred the re
port of the Attorney General uu the petition of
Andrew Jackson. reported that it would not be
expedient to grant the prayer of said petition.
A report of the Secretary of the Treasury on
the memorial of William smith of Baltimore,
orefpecting certain Loan-Office certificates was
read and laid on the table.
Mr. Vining from the committee to whom was
referred fondry memorials of the Truitees of
Several seminaries of learning jvaying compen
sation for loiles ai>d injuries fuilained during the
3ate war, brought in a report which was read
and laid on the table. After reading and refer
ring sundry petitions—the House relolved itfelf
into a committee of the whole on the report of
the Secretary of the Treafurv, on the public
debt—a proportion whichwasdebated ycfterday
being withdrawn,
Mr. Giles prop: V 3 a c!as<~e to be added to the
firft propo£.ic>L, _finoc by Mr. Fuzlimons, the
objett of wcics preclude the admiiQon of
the irredeec.we p : ie in the debt hereafter
to be fubfcr.:.rd to .Lt .in of the United States.
Tbic mocioß after a leagthy debate, was uega
#r«d—33 to 35.
The £ ft 31.1 second proposition were then fe
derally pot and agreed to.
The third proportion being read, Mr. Key
moved that it Ihoald be struck out—(his was fuc
ceedtd by a motion to amend it, by inferring, a:
their Itquidated value, after the words United Slates,
this was agreed to. Another motion of amend
ment was made and negatived—and then a mo
tion for the committee to rife and report pro
gress, being carried, a decision on the proposition
as amended, was prevented.
The committee on enrolled bills reported, as
duly enrolled, a bill for finishing the light-honfe
on Bald-Head, Cape-Fear River, and the Speaker
iigued the fame. Adjourned.
nUDAY, ItMci jo.
Mr. fmktr at dt«p—imi w whw »« nfciiri the repon
apnvkMfh i»a fepe*«wlwfcwas«ad w* bid on ike table.
, TWtryil b»iwgjir in Mr. Vj—g icfpe&ag the
IYrlM««u— ftniliw;, 111 mm 1 ilri■ mr rnfiiln u ipccd
»1 iiwinn ipfii«iriitycfwtnditfnmML Sc*c.
nl pcotwa* wae read and rcforaA,
IrcDraiaeejf (kc»We« «he report of the Sccmuy of
wTn«fanra*ikcfaHi(Ui. Mr. fcacy w the Chair.
Thcthnd pmfobini wa* litrmncwWMiiM aw aaesd
ncat n> propofod by Inkuf oml «bc Ml ikefc words.
* wkhooc ofehgrd to tJrihiogr thsir crnjhcJtr*," tb» *-
tie«J«cfcoo bcu»jp«* m
«hepupofirioa,that wa*»Moargatived—*4 iocs.
TWyii ymp»faloo bciag read, the word •* September" w»
a ; W die n*r*in« 00 the prupefcioo with ihebbofc. be
ing p«t «aoifitdi«iW itfKuc.
~ Tbtftt 1 ayfcti— a &«*» aOumioe •»
(ho* read ; fc)inji>u an Mrmtk of Mr- K«|,
}t*rjUad wn iatoiM. . ,
lit frtjifl was ik« drbmirf tia afcgj o'clock, the cwimr
itfiafcuttwn dcntM,ai rrp»»Jed (xopA
A wfn? ww rccrnrcd liom ibcinmt by Mr.fcatory Out,
>«h*e Militia hill pjflfd the Strtt with ifHumi
The canmua of asroikd btll*, iqnfUil that they had >hi*
day laid before the PitXitUnt of ik Uaiud State*, (or hi* appro
faWtaa, aad the bill Cor fim&mg ihe.Ligbt-Hoofc as Bald-Had,
vAtaoikaf Cifc-futma.
REPUBLICAN governments cost infinitely left
than monarchies—and yet the expence ot the
former is always a copious fubje<st of complaint.
It is well worthy of consideration how far a
repining fault-finding spirit at the slowness of
proceedings in the deliberative public bodies of
tree States may tend to the injury and final de
ttruJiion of a rcpublicau government.
rill to-morrow.
REMARK.
MuM THE
* V MA. r. FRtN £A I
WE were arvifed upon t-e commencement of the present
government, that the Vice-Pre&dcnt had adopted a rule of
coiuiu& lor bimfelf, in the of the duties of bis ortice.
defeiving t,>e it anon ne h is. and me natuie of the trutt re
posed in htm l y tbe public. Tlut iu cafe* where the Senate
t.-iou d be equally divided.upon a bill which had palfed tneHeul'e
ot Reprefenta: v j, he would vote tor tne biU. This deter mma
t- >n was thought wife and just, bec«<ufe upon the permanent icale
of the government it would be eqnal, one while favorable to one
r'erelt, and a'-.o?her to tv. - ->ther. And the peculiarity of his
rike, hein»; the i rvant ot the union, suggested the neceilry ot
me ruic, ior other wife his feelings might occauonai.v bus his
judgment, and in the corfl.il of contending iatercib, m >ke him
" 'generate m*o the representative of lome ttatc, aud thus cveu.u
a. \ become the mere creature of a party.
The pubhc would be gr*rfied by information from that ho
: arable gentleman, whether such rule was ever adopted; and if
so, uoon what principle he juilifics us violation, on the repreien
»a:ton bill; tor by the the Senate which have been
p»:hhfhed, it arpcars thjt upon leveral diviGoos 00 that intereffiug
qoeftton, he nvaiiablv departed from it, voting upon all occalions
a»ainft the Houfeot Reprelematives. As 'us of irrportance that
:he ccrnucf of an officer :n this high ftauoo, lbould appear irre
pro>chab:e before the public, it i> hoped such explanation may
be given, as will faiisty even the raoit fcrupuious, of the purity o:
hts motives.
\\ niMcvcr obj<r£tions may have been heretofore entertained
hts ponocal pnncipks, vet none have been urged agaiaft
ns mo a!s. The public have therefore lolaced thexnfelves under
the beJief, that although he might in the fcivor of bis heart wilh
a government ot a different from that which binds tOj*e
*••*»• in the bonds of peace, the freemen of America, he would
r.otvruh:i.?ndir£ faithfully execute the portion v.:.icq had Dtcn
allotted him, ot the duties of the preienc one.
Philadelphia, March 31.
A lo>n of three millions of guilders for account of the United
Slates, has occu ejected at four per cent, inierett, in ihe cuy of
Amitcrdam.
A treaty of commerce has been concluded between the Turks
and ihe kingdom ot Poland, in which the Polanders are al.owcd
ihe free navigation ot the Black Sea.
The French frieate, La Mofelie, lhat arrived hereon Friday lad
con mardca by Cap.. Ferrarie, Lieutenant in ihe navy of France
left the Cape the 6 ( .h of March. Six thousand troops had then
a< r:ved,l)ut these were judged inefficient to recover the island
fpeedili. The national civil coramiffioners had lent an urgent
demand to France for fourteen thousand moie, which, in addition
to tbe 6co© already arrived, it was thought would oe fully (u ra
cier! t to reduce ihe rcvohcrs to inftdnt lubmiflion.
Farther Ext'cZs cf a letter from Columbia, dated Feb. 14 *
" Commandant Wilkinfon beingappointed Lieuienaut-Coionel
to the fccond Un.ted States regiment, about the rnicaie of Janu
ary, the firing of cannon, at Fort-Walhington, announced io ihe
inhabitants bis arrival. His appointment as Lieuienaut-Colonei,
gave him the command of the Federal Trooos.
'■ Our winter has uncommonly severe ; we have had snow
on the ground upwards of fix weeks, mcft of the time 18 or 20
inches deep, and the 1 iver Ohio being do fed, the ice at Cincinnati,
lor near a fortnight, afforoed a bridge to the Kcntuckey Ihore.
Lieut. Col. Wilkinfan, perhaps concluding business would be 10
be cone early in the fpnng, improved the advantage of the snow
to transport forage for the cavalry to Fort-Jelferfon, and engaged
all the teams and sleds tnat could be procured in the different fet
tlemfr.ts ; and having ceternvned upon an imm; d:ate enterprize,
addreired himfeif to the militia at the different fettiements in the
Kon. Judge Symmes' Purchase ; and on the 20th uit. vilited Co
lumbia, where he met the militia at Capt. Gano's; he made his
2opearance in an old hunting frock—he them very
feelingly, telling them he had tome thoughts, it it Ibould be found
pra&icable, of viiiting one of the Indian towns; and noted to
them the expediency and neceffitv of bringing the canoon from
the place of tbe fatal defeat of the 4th November last, as there was
a probability that, uniefs that were done, they might be brought
againtt us the approaching campaign ; and dwell a little upon the
melancholy theme ot their countrymen lying in the field of battle,
calling noon them for the rights of sepulchre. Theie nin s were
fufficient—they rtruck the fouls of the ioiid boys."
* By m fiake dated the 4tk 1* our lajt.
Extracl of a letter from Ecjlcm, March 17.
" I 3m not much more pleased with the pro J rejs of Congrets
this fcfiioa, than with the laic expedition. The tr ding and waftc
of lime in unimportant bills, has been intolerable I wifli ihe
scribblers againtl good charaELcrs were employed in fpurr ng their
delays, and the longftecchifiers. Bat Congress conduci like other
national Governments; and the world is, and will continue 10 be
like the old zuoHd—nor listen to the voice of wisdom, till "the
waters of the flood come and drown them." 1 don't find one
member crvmg aloud against this waste of public time and cxpencc.
I wonder Come don't do 't for the fake of popularity."
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
" Government depends on opinion.lt is happy for man
kind, lhat in proportion as the people have been enlightened and
civilized, their opinioo has always been in favor o! government.
Liberty, ?ena*ne eqnal liberty, has no other retreat now left,
but in the arms of government — governmeui founded on the prin
ciples of iuftice and right.
Liberty ha« been repeatedly tempted to take refuge In anarchy ;
hot this has aimoft always, in the iOue, bound her in the chains
of despotism.
Un J er the Romans, Liberty tried AriJiocracy—which artfully
stripped her of all her charms, and left her nothing but a name.
In the time of the r volution Ihe tried Democracy ; but Cromwell
r ole the hearts of the people—he dubbrd the Pat hament-Houfe a
den of thieves, and accordingly turned the members our, and
locked up ihe doors. Liberty has now taken up hei residence in
• e Uo-ted States, under our happy Republican Government—this
we ray pronounce is ber Jafl retreat. The people are in a state
of probation ; if we are wife ?o secure the privileges we en : t oy,
by {■. sporting the fabric we have r*ifed, Liberty will refic/ in
t\t 1 highly favoied lane, 'ill the final consolidation of all govern
ment in the divine—but if we (hould be so unwise asto fuffcr the
*-c sice to be defaced by th*- untcmpered dauoings of pretended.
' ■it ignorant arcbiic&t, we (hall rue our lolly when it will be too
IMC.
Tk erf is m mtnkmd m almofl oatverfs! propensity to cgotifm—
to this l««fcc we may iracc the variety of systems which aift is
philofepby lod po|itict; aod if it went no further, it
be from thisaifo proceeds the (pint ot in
tolerance and fofa of the liberty of ipeecb, and
the freedom of the~prd».
What property at * pctfo* he (aid 10 his pofleffiom,
ifhe ciasot retff* (iMi ii fecurtty, with then at ploftne ?
Of what advantage to the w»t Id, or «o hnfllelf, is a prtfou'iihcn
(al stock, U be caossoi jflipsrtbb ideas wnhfjecdoin ?
387
XATIOXAL GAZETTE,
VALERIUS.
Tnere i« a peifecurion of opinion extant at the present day
which is fee ret ly undermining the firft principles of civil liberty'
and if coutinued, will preclude all mor«l aud political improve*
liienr. r
We frequently hear of tc political heresies" now a days let
t >c it>odarri of political orthodoxy De once reared, and von (hail
loon hrar po -ileal anathemas thundering rooi do meal co&ors.
" ot hmk what they plrafe. and to speak ti*c!- fcotim nts,"
is the unalienable right of free Ameri- ass, for the juii cacrcife of
which they are amrnab.r only »o the laws —and be that s
the cry of •• mad cn;" only, to foi:d
o: checking free difauilition, :s a tyrant iu gr«;u,
Justice is the hrigh'dl luminry :n th' cooftellaiion of republi
can virtues—The influence of rhi? divine pnnctpie leads the
Tr.rnds of genuine freedom to treat at. mankind a* members of
one common family.
IK SENATE OF THE UMTLD STATES,
MONDAY, MAKCH 26.
The following Resolution wa» moved
RESOLVED, That it be a ltanding rule. :hat tht d x>»s of she
Senate Cr.amber remain open whiift the Senate thu.i be iiiting in
their leg fiitive capacity, except oo Inch occaiimis as, ia tneir
judgment, may require secrecy ; and that this rule Ihall commence
and be in on the firli dav of th** next fcffioa ot Congrels.
It Difled in the negative—Yeas 8, Nays j 7.
The Yea j and Navs being required by one fitih of the Senators
present, thole who voted in the affirmative, are,
M ifri. fiutier, Carioll, Foi ter, Hawkins, j jnufton, King, Lee,
and Monroe.
TSofc who voted in the negative, are,
Meff'S. BaiTet-, Bradley. Cabot, Dickmfon, Ellfworth, Few,
Gunn, Henry, liard, Langdon, Read, KoDinfon, Rutncriura,
Snerraan, Stanton, Strong, and Wsn^ate.
£T In our last it was fa:d that the majority on the above
confilled ot fraxtccn. Taking it lor granted inat the
cxcefs a!o«e conlt-.tutes the majority, that ftalcineut v»as erroneous
—lue majority beui£ only 9.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRfi'ALS at the PORT C J PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Arid,
Dolphin,
Brig Bet fey.
S.oop Dolphin,
Swallow. Quandrill,
Schooner Wind field, Cox,
Letters received by t~»e Ariel, inform that there was a great
storm 111 the Bay oi Bi'cay on Chrirtmas-Day, in which thirty
five (hips were loft, and that the towns of St. Andero, Si. SeDaiti
an and B iboa, w ere for a lime nearly mundated.
POST-OFFICE, Philadelphia, March 30, 179 -
Letters for the Briiiih Packet Prince William Henr>, Captain
Peters, for Falmouth, w:ii be received at this Oftice unul Tueiday
morning the 3d of Apni, ai 8 o'clock.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Detered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates igj" 95 do.
Indents 12\J 60 do.
Halt thares Bank Stock—6s per cent, premium.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(PRICE 6/6.)
By M A T H E W
So. 118, Msrket-Street, near Fourth-Street,
The Ladies'Libraryj
CONTAINING,
1. Miss More'sEflays
a. Gregory's Legacy .
3. Lady Pcno'ngion's Advice
4. Marchioucfs of Laic ben's
7- More's Fables for the Ladies
THE editor of this publication hopes, from the eltabl:(hed re
putation ot the several tracts ot wnifh it is composed, that
it will be found a more complete system tor the indtuCtion ot the
female world, than p rhaps any other extant.
A volume, under the present title, was lately published in Eng
land and Ireland, and had a molt rapid sale, having been uuich- ied
bv almost every l§dy of taste in thoie kingdoms. To this voiumc
the editor has added Mils More's ElTavs—Mrs. Chapone's letters
on the government of ihe temper —and Swift's letter to a young
lady newly married. These h*ve coofidei ably enhanced us value,
and he doubts not, the ladies on this fide of the Ailantic will be as
generous 'n their encouragement of a work intended tor their ad*
vantage as those in England and Ireland have been.
Advice
%* SETS OF THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
AS several gentlemen in different parts of the United States, hive
been heretofore drfjppGir ted in ferr applications for complete sets oj the
American Museum, the printer mjrrtns tie puchc, that he is en
gaged in reprinting the deficient Timbers of the aml has now and
will henceforward hav; a conjiant fupplr of sets §1 hand;—fttch gentle
men, therefore, as please, may beJurr.ijheU with sets neatly bound, in te\
mlumei, at fxteen dotlars.
This zlct k will be found to contain at leafi as great a verity of poli
tical. and mijccllaneous cjfays, as any ever fmiiJKed 11
America.
Said Carey has lately publifhtd,
l. Beauties of Poetrv, British and American. 6<.
i. Beattie's Elements of Moral Science, 75.
3. M'Fingal, an epic poem, 2J91
4. Blair's Sermons, complete in 2 vols. 15s.
5. Ntcker's Treaufe on Religious Opinions, 6«.
6. Examination of Sheffield's Obfervatious, 4/8
7. American Confbiutions. 4^B
8 Dowav Bible—n?at, 6 aoiis.—elegant, 50/*
9. Vade Mfcum, 1/1 oj
10. Charles Grandson, abridged. \fo
11. Humphrey's Poems, bound 2/"6. in blue paper
j 2. American Jest Book, in two bound, 4^6
13. Scleft Poems, 1/3
14. Thiok well on'i, i/io§
15. The Chriftsaa Economy, i/io|
OJfrid Carey wtjy Bib'cs, Tenements, Spelling-Btokj,
P'i"icrs, Q'irfs, lak-Pozvd'r y Wnti*.?-Paper of various kinds. Bonnet-
Piprr, Pocket-Books, Sc&ics and Duidsrs, Ink~£ian-i t Mejfsge und
Plajntg-Qtrdsy j3c.&c.
:ur ti»c purpoie
D:catur,
Dnfco,
Ei.ifon,
D'tcow,
St. Andero,
Portfmouih, X. H.
Port-so- Prince,
Ncw-Hainpihirt,
Fayal,
North-Carolina.
"so v-£-
i»J6
io6£ pr. cent.
6c do.
do.
CAREY,
5. Swift's Letter to m new mar
ried Lady
6. Mtfs Chapooe on command
of TemperS T O L E N,
WITHIN a few dipUft pal, from the SobCuiW, the fol
lowing NOTfcS, iflitfd by ihe Trcaforcr of she Commoo
wcaith of liafertufrm: Ko. »87<i, Dec. 1, 1783, /. 72 15,
paf«bkio PiiiHAs Ltmak ; No. ■8379, Now. 1,1783, £.36 4,
payapte to William Ltox; Xol >301, Dec. t, 9,
ppbtcco Natbasiil Wkicht ; No. 16139. Aug. 1, 1783,
28 16—No. 71, OflL i, 178 c, £.48 1, payable Ko Doctor
«kAMUi L WAS K.
Wlßuctw will apprehend ar>d iccurc the Thief or Thieves, so
that he or they may be broogbs to juftkc, fluil receive a reward
of Tvutt Doli Ati; and whoever will pnMace the above
Notes, aad mora them to the (übfehber, (hit! reeetve a reward
of Ok* HvaptiD Doliaks, aad all nrcrflary dbrgn.
fßCMM»bviagbct>i vken to prevot ikir ever being paid
to the Thief or Thieves by the Tieaflorcr abovemeationed : AU
perfcms therefore arecaaaoard not to ■mihtfr tbe above Xous,
of aay owofiniag them lor (ak.
Kwrtkcmptom, ft*. <9. 1
Bank of the United States.^
March 11,1795.
ESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby ate, aa»
thorifed to conpkat their Sham by payment at aoy time
before the periods rajoivrd by the law of incorporation.
ReUlved. That each Share sb com pleated, (hall be entitled to
draw adtvidepd of the profatof the Bank, from and after the firft
day of the momh next fuccceding the day of compleatiog Inch
Resolved, That so much of the qaaitrr't ir.:cTeloconthc Pub
lit to comp, any Sbie ;s » fc-ii
have accrued bclorc the fiift d«y >{ the roocth next fucceedtr*fcthe
completion of Inch Share, tbali be received by the Baiuk, ar>d pud
to ifee peifoui who Shall hwt transferred the fame.
By order of the PrcGdent a.,c Dirtfiors,
(rwiftjJ |OHX KIAN", Cajkrrr.
The Universal Tontine
IS opened this bat at the office of Udfrv. HAZARD and
ADDOUS, at the corner of Third and Cbrlsiiit Sc reels, forthe
parpufc of forming a Society, by a Snbfcriptioa on Lives iococw
tintseaffociated for the peiiod of 21 >cats; its prinrioal objefi v
tocfie&a Union of pnbbcand prmie interefis, and the Terms of
Admission are easy, being calculated paiiicnlarly to favor the iefs
opulent dtarnn
The Articles of Afiociation, in which the principles of the Too
tine ire detailed, may be had of Sir. Fsakcis Bailat, Printer,
in Marfcct-Siea.
X. B. 3abfcnptioas wi!! be received from 10 to 1 o'clock,
daily, whole number is fbbficribed, according to the ar
ticles.
Match 19.179 ft.
Militia Fines.
Tie Collc&mi of Uililii Fine* in ihc City and Liberties of
tixdiftrifiioi UovaiiKufingaiui Piffyonk,
«c Iwtby uqaiial to colkfl nd pay iolo the Cnouty Tirafury,
>J1 ofinn, and lo frtile aod drpolit their books aod
▼OBthcTi ia my Office, at No. 6>, Walnul-ftrcrt, oo or bcfoic ihc
Sit day of Apvil next.——Whocforc Notice is given, That im~
mediately from the Cud fiit day of April, a!l CoUcfioit who
stall tail in tinplyii{ with riot raqnifiuon, will be proceeded
agaiaft according lo law.
Pbilad. Feb. tj, : jgx.
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters ot Eiiubrth
River id Virginia, to those of ia North-Car o. ma,
or tor conducing the work, will be icceiwed until the nmib da*,
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Wilhamtbarg; Thomas
Newton, jao. and Daniel Beditiger, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; by
John Cow per, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in Xortb-Caroitoa. The length of the Caoai will be
about sixteen mile* ; the country through which it will pas*. ts
i vampy, free from iiones, and covered with heavy wood. The
Canal is to be ibirt)-two feet :n width, and eight feet at least in
depth, below the torface of the eanb, and capable of being navi
gated in dry seasons, by veffcls drawing three teet water.
Good fecarity will be required of coolradors; and peifons
making apolication to be employed as managers, mufl produce
certificates (from charadrrsof readability) of their qualifications
for a buftatfs of this kind.
By older of the Prcfideot and D rcfiors,
'
y&rfaii, JeatmMrr at, 17Q2
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, i Co.
T_TAVE jullaow opened their Lead-Wakehouse, two door*
X 1 fourfi of Wahiul-firmWharf, adjoining their New Fafioiy
where they ln*c now nude, and iadv for blc, a general a (Tort
mem of SHOT of all fizei, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, ib
prodi:clioo of the Uicn in Virginia. Ai they have employed a
nunber of experienced Engiilh workmen, I hey warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufa&ured in Europe, ana al a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
.They alio continue to manufafiore ail the above articles at
Xicbmond, in Virginia. All ordeis addressed lo either of the
above fiQoria, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
ihortcft notice.
N. B. Warned. indußrictu, sober, Labouring Men, at the bid
Minei, where conftaol employ, good wages, andothei encourage
ment! will be given, mam of conveyance being provided, and
Itoutes for iheir reception.
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Mosts Acst m Jc Co
at thc:r Factory io Richmond, or a* above.
PkiladelfkiAy December 3,1791. ( f
Public Securities,
Boocht and Solo, on COMMISSION bv
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnpt-S«reei.ne»i door to the Bank, No. q 7 .
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION
On 'iDAY the nth day of April next, at the a'oufe of
£uhJo™* rio "' ' n C " y °' or at private
A FARM containing about four hundred acre, of npiand aod
4 X la.i meadow, lying within three quarter* of a m<le cf said
city; u a great part bounded on the (bond, and on a navi»able
Tr °M *r" ch " 1 f°°? scat - »" »« the farmfvr
"l eligible for building, with delightful profocSj ex
cellem brooka and fpr.ugi; a large applr o.ehard. and tome f™„
treei of o.her kindj, and a fuf&cient <juint;iy ol fire-wood. TV
foil « good for graii and mott kind, of *rain, and may at fma'l
cxpence, from the coo»eniency of t'ue fait meadow, and oiher ad
vantages of manure, be made equal to any (arm in Xew-terfev —
It will be fold all together, or in two or three dmuons, as (hall
appear best to suit tbofc inclinrd :o p-uchafc.
For further particular*, previous to or at the time or talc, ior.lv
to the fuofcrtbers. JOHN' HALSTL.D, ln d
* ij -MATTHIAS HALSTED.
4! NATH. WRIGHT.
(V)
THOMAS PROCTER, Lieut,
of the City and Liberties.
' P'9 *)
WASHINGTON, in th: Territory :f CoLCMSii.
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
valor*-ac ibe option of tbe pony, viH bepvm bythiCon
milftonrr* of ibe Federal to tbe pofea vbo, before tbe
fifteenth day of Jnly acxt, Iball pvodnce to them tbe noft ap
proved PLAN,ii adoperd by t arm, for a PRESIDENT** HOUSE,
to be aefittd ■■ ibu Cicv. Tbefecof ibe tf tbe anift
will attend to i: f will of cooife tniiarnreabesfprd and oocVsne of
bn plao; and «t'* deftiaauoa will pout ont to him tbc nnmber,
bze, and diAntmuca of the apartment*. It wiElbea recotnmen
duMi) of any pUo, if ibe central part of it may be defaehed and
etcfird for tbc prdent,w?th fc be appearance of a compete bole,
and be capable of admitting ibe additional psiES,infunfire,if they
Ibatl be waocrng. Dr«ving> vili beexpded df the ground plats,
elevations of racb front,and fe6witbiongb tbc baicoine, in finch
dvtetlion* as may be ncccffiry 10 explain tbe internal ftru&urc ;
and an cftinau of tbe cubic feet of brickwork compoung ibe
whole nib of tbc walk
Afct* 14. 1701.
WASHINGTON, » tbe 'Tcrrtlerj tf Columbia.
A Premium
OF a LOT in finsCitv, to be by
ittd FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or* MEDAL©t tk»i
mllue, M ioc optkoo of she party; w»Li be - wen hv ctK Cntntorf
fioßcn of the F;denl BoiW'rvrj, (o ibe pcrtoo vbo, before iks
fifiecoch day ok' July, 179 a, frail produce tothero the irw!l ap
proved PLAN,it sdoctetl crv tbero,for a CAPITOL,"obe e»e&ed
n ih ? Cry ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, tor ik Ptan deemed next iu utcnl totbeoactiiev
Chall adopt. The boildmg to be of bx ick, aod to coutuo :nt iou
Co «•". Qg apartment*, 10 wit :
a r * n * ) fu&ctesit to ae- "1
A Lobby or Anttchamber to the burr ; fulS ei«a-
A Scotfc Rotm of itu> Iquarr fat area ' f iiw
Ao Askkimbrr or Lobby h> (be lat J
12 Rooms of 600 iqairrlm area each, for Committee Room land
Cfirrks* Ofilers, to be of half tbe eWntioo of tbe former.
Drawings will be apcAcd of tbe grooftd plus, eVcwitow of
cadi from, and fefiitom 1 brooch the bailing in
as may be aeceffaiy to cxpUia tbe uiienul ftiafimr; and aoefc
mate of tbe cubic feet of brick«wovk compouag tbe Vrbole wafe
of the wails.
ALtrdt 14.1702.
TO it iOL D.
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pea a.-St& zet,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
B O
Which may be seen every dav, ntit /r?t*'iuxk> t. «.
Among tium are tie'fiiiShl tmg ;
folia. TTOMER. Xeuophon, P.ato. PtuUicb, Eufebius, Sczo
-11 men, TnetKloret, Virgil,Horace,Lnry, Tacitus, Pater
cutus, Plmv. Concordautia Lar. CV.ncordantia Gr. The taunts Ci
eeroois. B blia junti and Tremeiiti. Bible de Maitiu.Wfllj'iMipj,
•Vioula—Phavorrni—Marticti—Hoffman t Lexica, VoiLiEiyma*
og l eon, Antuqui". Ecclef. Britannicz. &c.
Qajrtj Pmdar, Cy:opaedia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
P <edrus. Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceroni! op. om. Cafjr, Su
et otu», Joltus Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii AisGran. Clutc
ni Gfograoh'i, Juftmrzn Code, See.
Ocfavj el irjra. Horner, Anacreon, Ariftopblßes, L 6r»®iniM,
Tn opKf ictus, Poeue minofei Gr. Ifocraies, Pntisns, w.
ritms eiitim* o]Horace, Virgil, Terence,and Ovid, Tibulius, Plau
us. Lucan, Man iai, Claud tan, Val. Flsccus. Aufonius, Buchanan,
ballull. Cuiii us, Flo no, Juttin, Val. Maximum, A. Getlius, Hiif.
Aopift. Scriptofcs. Lngfijk ami FrentkTrawJlatiaws of l'ome of the
Claflics. * great variety ot Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. See.
£3" Catalo«ues may be had us McUii. Rice 6c Co. Bookfetleis,
Market-ftieet, or of JOHN CAREY.
October 31 (ep if.)
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the fun of £. -p for the purpose ot rnrairing the
ProteftiDt Epiitopai Cnurch in the city ot New-Brunfwck,
agreeable to an ati of the Legiilaturc of the biate of Ncw-Jcrfey,
paired November 1791.
SC H £
i *»f
S
s
5
SO
3°
9°
•675
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tc/kets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 DoJfs.
Thtt Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickers, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fobjtfl to a dedu&ion of tue/vt cad sa h*ljper
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than aov Louei v n ct
ottered to the public—aud it being of such evident utility, [hat it
cannot be doubted bu> the undertaking will meet with the most
liberal fuppon.
The drawing wiil commence oo the second Monday in A an),
or tooner if the Tickets are difjpofed of, iu ihecrty of Xew-
Bcuafwick, under the iofpeaiooot Cot. John Bayard, Prefidenr
offjid city; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the tuy of Amboy;
aud Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor ol the Manufactur
ing Society of N'ew.JerlVy.
Tickets lo be had of the following pefbm, who are duly ap
pointed Manager*, are under oath, aod have given security for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift nf the fortunate numbers will be publ ; fhed, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER IvEENOV, > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
X. B. Those prizes which are not demanded within fix months
a / ,rr t^€ drawing of the Lottery, will be coofideicd as a generous
dotation to the Church.
C- * Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
han 3 per cent. per month for their money. To accommodate
*il those who may be <*ifpo(ed to purchase Tickets, letters direa
ed to P. Kn >o*, Manager, and Post-Master, at New-Brnnf
wick, and enclosing good bills will be attended to—and Tickets
forwarded on receipt of such letters.
Afa'-finw/a'jtl, fanuary ?o, 17Q*.
A TO fc £ SOLD BY THt L7 t iTOK,
TABLE for receiving and paving Gald at thr Bank of ihc
Initcd Sum, lhcwin ? the Value of Gold in Doliirs and
j a' I *'- /T*™ ne to * Thousand Penovweighti—according 10 the
Acto: CocgreU, afccruining the S.sndaid i-i Vi*i» of Gajd.
388
THE COMMISSIONERS.
tf THE COMMISSIONERS.
O K S,
M E.
Dollars is scco
tooo
1000
200
1000
1000
1000
10M
I,s®©
1800
67C0
100
50
20
•*
16000
Jones 8c Burroughs,
'
. 3v:
BCY ad Ml c»a; kind ot iSc Suds at ikr y- r I J
CokbiSu, by hw Comradt, aad fMc 1 ft.,, ]
Tbofe patinu who m» be pkiM to bnr rhra VSB
n>nr««d», Wf irlv oa SdciilY, femxy and difptfdk.
Umrth. 170-.
BLOOMSBURY,
THAT S£AT at IHe Falls of D-lnrarr i«
ot T[copm, ia Xnr.jrr%.occaßird lor bu*v yean y# jw'
tbc fuQkrrbei; "A fooxra at
a tract of wood-Uati of about 185 icm, ti dhr ilarcqf r-iV
triics. Tbe !arm u divided by the bubs &*<m fad»g
Trtnwi to Umbmoo, tad two two parous**
«l«ut the eilvirdlf port
off in coomtcm fields, sod in good farmiqg order, ,JJ..
part, bounded by me bad fcmoo threap »d&rihenitf4
the weft, forms *!««*»«; which, from theoatftbttcdeftfisffefe.
sum and inpro«tia»b n-jpacnlh allowed-co he me oftlrad
bcMutul aad dr&iablc heats in the ftat*, The »«'
handfane, wcU-fintfhed brick buitdia;,sobs^a«» teU£t9M
rooms cm each floor, with eiddlcm cctbit,
kitchen ; aad comnnndtiig • »fry runAm
ine rtvrr, both above and bdow.M — 11 t> •mrlaAaj;»^f»M r
tlfoofTkeaioa ud the lots —y* (a
both fides of the riier. the ]
coarh-honfc and faScieat to cwwfa fa I
horfcs, accommodated with a cittagad ]
paciaos loft lor hay ; adjoining lacfc is a very Imi ii||ihu |f) j
r*t pr&fi and 3 ftooc cow hooftr, apwardi of xao fret ia |
containing thifty-ooe paved stalk, owe* which » aroovy Mtfel
Adjoiaingtlaccourt-yardoi |
den of about two acres, towards the riwrr, in
ftace of cohore, and ahoaadiag wish a *Tch coiKfiraii at
choacrft fniusof-alnoft cvcay-kind, aadfncnl lk){cdiH|a|
matured. rtt ■ rnm laiiai rtlharr trna ih
fioahoofr, and nearly in the centre of the frjaitr, is a ww,
buik v lione farm>hoijr, accotnaurlmd «vfi a targe '
Tpring-hoofc, garden, &c a con piece ft one car*-,;
fibs, a capaaQM ke»Jaoafe, ad eioj«hr«.
ceffary oat-baiidiag. The jfiiwd improperly dmdrd m
fields, ail well watered, inapt oved, m 4 Uudv ooAnr iS^
most approved grals. Tb&s fqnaie has produced aoaatffi), far fc; '
vrrai years palS, apwar<3s of Gxly nm of the best hay, WCl 1T i
fapnartiag through tbc fanner fcafem twenty to j
attic, and eight or cep horses. It rnatiiaa alh Ino ai |
cbards of gpcid fruit. The rarer abounds, in tjbe pvapfr 1
with great plfaty of all kinds of fife ohaaEiy foond ia titfcflk wm 1
I in this climate, and with a variety of wildUfbwk; kdvlick j
I nay afford a ptafiag aacCmeia to the fponhua, m weftaafc J
j convenient addition 10 tbe elegance and variety atfltoiblle. 1m
| whole of iheland. aeepc the woodland, tttacUtd«dawid|j
by good fraces, part of which is fanned of red cnbr
sndniUof ctyfouc and white cedar. Yk pncbferaiy
the improved £q-are frpuvciy, or the whole cegofctr, m
heft fait him. There ina itThwiftiblrymy 4 fgmJ h
log floor oo the nver shore. The purchase poacf,if vrilSoqi
and the iuteccil p«id, »ill not be dmaflA'd
years.
Any peifoo dedroas of rie* ift§ the tnemrf-j. n? be r
00 aopiicacioa te Samuel W. Stocktok, £"c. «# 7
or Mr. Ixailuan, who at prrfrnl occupies the t«i
a» No. 213, Souib opt * ,f * Vj v
Pit'i. March. 7, *791.
*1 o l*c suii) peremptorily, at Public VBKBUK,«Voikli|
ibr itch day of April next.
' I ""HE SEAT of the late Dodor^nm
**> drceafrxi. in Pcnb-Amboy, coeiainicg TWO BBs3®BlV|
ACRES of LAND. ;
Ths; place is bounded fooiheriy for near a nckti ikrilf
Rvitan, vhere il rmplirsisto the bay about 18 viSrs !«««£■%• >
Hook, and affords two most agreeable fitulioM for
Seats. There are now «*a it, two brick hnufe*, vttfe
* good of fruit trees of the best kinds. TW sadi*Wf j
fertile, and a great part oi it ray good meadow ; and !
ation on the river, bas tbe advantage of fifli of difirveat M,i -
tbeir seasons. particularly of oyftersand chicken ciuu,«UkM|',
be picked in great plenty oo the Aits before tbe 4osa. k«l
driiebiiyS, healthy Giuaiioo,capable of gtnicd aci ulf■f*'"
menu; and as Penb-Amboy is one of the best fca purtt ]r:
United States, and within 18 miles of the fa, tbe pro%r4* «»'j
aerea&og in value from that circumstance, is by uo 1
idrrabie. f|
- - - a- i'
There will alto be !otd, other Lots, wHhia» the bonds rfll? %
city, and about Five Aeiei oil Land on ihe o
of the river Raritaa—oart ot whicb is impnwrd by *
which there is a trimeddweUiog4tot)fc)odiuro.
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about oae
fifty acres; the remainder will be fold io conretucw 5®% fl
wooded aod timbered, and rerv convenient for ftipp£f*JC
York and other markets with fire-wood, timber for p
in;, aod other uses, the trinfportatioo by water betag €■*"**'.y
£»fr. The condition* will be made know a at the day
and the iequifite eonvevancej made by '
JAMES PARKER and > ' ,
BOWES REED, { T ' aiea '*" '
Liknrifc to be SOLD, at the J&me tine pfaa*
ELEVEN* ACRES ot LAND, adjoining ihe -cwvr, tc an*-
perty of ihe Proprietors of E»ft Ncw-Jcrfcy, whttt a ® J) •'
or -etaty houfc lately flood. The elegant fkuation of ih s
hirdly to be equalled; it afFords a grand proffxd i irtulL
Bay, and of ibe B«v formed by the waters of Rartwa
son's rivers, where ihey disembogue into the sea to tf* Eii
a most dehghtfol one of the serpentine courfeof theßantJn
fm-feveral miles, through a itch iia£t of meadow to tik ,u -
The great quantity of (tone neatly dressed. and br:cJt, tic rtn*®
of the hou(e lately burned, will be nearly fufneteue to* 1
holding; and a large flone cistern, and well of excei*fat
with a very convenient itable and o»ach-hcufe, will gWv
the expence of putting the place in order for the refid*®**®
Gentleman.—There are few Gtuations so eligible, p• » ,|C ® J
the fumroer season—when the cool sea breezes, and u* <
fiuaiiom, render them places of pleafmg rrtreat, from tbe ccnW
ment and :«jltry air of the southern Kates aod neighbor®* c< ' x *
Perth-Amf'oiy, Feb. 15, 1792. -F c *
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, audiJOH
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE,&SPICES,£cJ^
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. 19,
TS;H-Sfrret.l>ei wren Chc^onf
£3" Blank Powers to receive Mr!mereli,ana'Jcn»ei***i
oriucipal of Public J'bt, arrerafUtothe Rules ejtabhjked i* l - •
f*ry Department: Alfe Blanks forabjlraQs ojCerttJicatzs, tekjp
Mc Editor.
['"3 m ]
rcr The 7OURSALoftht THIRD SESSION tf
ef zh UNITED STATLS, ma) be Uioj the Edit* IcrejJ
r O R. SALE,
in<?Marlcc»Str**««
■4'.