A KAUOSAL PAPt.H, maLISHM) WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 6q, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 107, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
REFLECTIONS on.th; STATE oj the UNION
" Si quid novifti re&ius iftis,
" Candidus imperti ; si non h>s utere mecum."
DISPASSIONATE enquiries concerning the
public iuteretts, are attended with salutary
efferts, in every time and in every nation. In a
country like that, which we inhabit, such exa
minations are unusually interesting, and may be
rendered, it is believed, peculiarly beneficial.
To create the disposition requisite to the pro
per acceptation of filch disquisitions, it is necef-
Jary to call to the public mind the variant cha
racters of the several states when the/were pro
vinces of a more extended empire—the causes
■which produced that difference of character—
the means which were devised to increase and
perpetuate that variation, and the ends to which
those charatfteriftic differences were intended to
be instrumental. Refletftions duly serious upon
these circumstances will remind the people of
the several states, that they are natural friends,
whose amity and union have been too often view
ed with jtaloufy by rival eyes. They will per
ceive the wisdom and the high duty of cultivat
ing a spirit of mutual allowance and conceflion ;
anil a careful examination of their actual situa
tion will convince them, that greater bleflings
■will result from a perfect underllanding, and se
dulous cultivation of their intereftsat home,than
from almolt any arrangements, which the con
ceptions of foreign nations will probably lead
them to propose.
The consideration of our present situation and
of some interesting circumstances which have
grown out of it, is the object of this investigati
on, in which the benefits to be derived from a
liberal interconrfe with foreign nations will not
be undervalued. As no apology is neceftary for
such an endeavour, a miscellaneous enquiry into
several matters, which are always deeply inter
esting to nations, and into others which have re
sulted from our public operations, will be prose
cuted without further introduction.
Concerning the experts oj th: United Stales
It has been apprehended by persons ofobfer
vation, at home, and the idea has prevailed in
the councils of a foreign nation*, that the exports
of the United States for ihe year preceding Oc
tober, 1790, wete greater in value than could be'
expected again, by reason of the prices for grain
which were consequent on the scarcity in i ranee.
The exports of the fubfequenr year will aid us
in testing this opinion, which attracts the more
attention, because it is sometimes suggested that
agriculture and trade have been injured by the
ineafui'es of the government in regard to the pub
lic debt. The firft return of exports, on which
this conjecture was founded, includes a term of
thirteen months arid a half, and amounted to
20,415,966 dollars. From this aggregate value
a ninth partis to be deducted, to equalize it with
on«J year's exportation, which reduces the funi
to 18,147,526 dollars. It is very well known,
that the price 9 of our produce through the vear
lately returned, and which ended with Septem
ber, 1791, had fallen to their antecedent rates,
and it will be perceived on a comparifoii, that
our exports exceeded in their aggregate value
tliofe ot the former year. The last return, ex
clusively of two quarters of Charleston, was
dollars 17.J71.JJ 1
Those two quarters, at the rate of the
correfpondlng term in the preceding
year, woald be about
There remains not, therefore, the least cause
to doubt, that our total exportatioiis wer4 eigh
teen millions and a quarter, and confequciitly
more than in the antecedent year. It is to be
obfeVved, too, that the high prices which' were
current through thetimeof thefirft retot'n,niuft
liaie : prbduced an exportation of all the grain,
that could be got to market, and none of the old
crop could have been left as usual, to fell with
the'neV. The obvious effect of this must have
fceen an unusual diminution of the exports in the
Lift yesir. The Valuation of the exports of these
ftatts immediately before the revolution is not
pretrftly ascertained : but {he whole exportati-
* See the report °f a commntee of the lords of the British pri
vycounci), Dublifhed in the Gazettes (of M<ir£b) it Chailefton
South.Cirolir.n.
ons from America, including the remaining co
lonies, Newfoundland, Bermuda, and the Baha
mas, were computed to have been in 1771, dol
lars, 15,280,000. Jn these were comprised the
Ihipmerus between thole islands and the main,
and from province to province, as every veflel,
which departed from one American port for a
nother, was obliged to clear out her cargo, as if
dellined for a foreign country. It will appear
to be lafe to fubiract for the difference produced
by thele two circumstances, one half of the for
mer exports, when it is remembered that two-
thirds of the quantity of tonnage is employed in
the intercoufe between the various parts of the
present union, which is engaged in that with
foreign nations ; and that the British Newfound
land fifnery alone, was estimated at more than
2,200,000 dollars in 177 J. The increase of the
tonnage employed in the foreign trade affords a
nother proof of the increafement of our exports.
About 330,000 tons were laden in the present
United States in the year 1770, part of which
were deflined for ports now within the Union.
About 600,000 tons have been loaded in each of
the two lad years for foreign ports, though our
exports being in a much greater degree manu
factured, are now contained in a smaller compass :
and boards, fcarttling, and staves, which are our
moil bulky commodities, have not increased in
half the ratio of the tonnage employed.
An addition may be also made to the amount
of the return for the increased supplies in provi
sions, cordage, and other materials, for the use
and outfit of foreign ships. Since the prices of
fait provisions have been reduced below those of
Ireland, and many articles applicable to ships'
use, have been manufactured here, this item has
become very cotifiderable ; and so far as the ai ti
des are fold to foreigners, they are eflentially ex-
700,000
dollars 18,271,551
Saturday, May 5, 1792.
ports
Under this head, the increased number of ships
fold to foreign nations, may be fairly mentioned,
and although much has been said of the number
formerly disposed of abroad, it is not doubted
that a greater value was fold in that way in the
time of the last return. OfthisfaA fame fur
ther illustration will probably be given inthefe
quel. It will be fufficient to observe here, that
the whole quantity of tonnage built, and native
vessels repaired the lafi year, exceed in value one
million of dollars.
The enlarged confum-ption made within our
country by foreign perfuns of every description,
who are certainly much more numerous than they
formerly were, is as profitable to the country, as
thefame value in exports would have been. This
item will appear to be very conftderable, when
the expenditures of foreign niiniflers, consuls',
transient persons, fleets and seamen, are called to
mind
(TO BE ED.)
PARIS, February 6.
WHEN M. de la Jaille, the officer who went
to Brefl:, about two months ago, to up
on him the command of the ships de (lined to St.
Domingo, was attacjked by the populace at Breflt,
on fiifpicion of being an Ariftocrate, a National
Guard stepped forward arid demanded the honor
of being his executioner. By this artifice he got
poffeflion of hisperfon, conducted him to prison,
and saved his life.
M. de la Jaille was accompanied by his deli
verer to Paris, where they went together to the
King's mass. Being rliere pointed out to their
Majesties, the King said to them, lam sorry that
I have not about me the medal -which 1 have caused to
be Jlruck in memory of your gallant attton. ] Jhould
have felt great pleasure in prefentitig it to you -with
my own hand. The Queen added to the National
Guard, lam happy to fee you ; you have prefcrved
to the jlate a worthy citizen and a good officer. It
gives us pleasure to express our gratitude.
The following words were handed last week
to the President of the National Aflerjiblv : —
" Sit down'all the notes on the fame line, and you
■will have no miific ; place alt men upon the fame
level, and you deflroy all social harmony. The
billet was written by a beautiful Arillocriite.
February 7.
Letters from Germany have been received at
Paris, which mention, that the Emperor haS of
fered to the Prince de Condi the choice of either
Fi'ibourg or Brifgaw for his refideuce, and that
of his suite ; and has allured him, that he fnall
not be malelled in either of rhofe towns.
425
[Whole No. 515.]
In the department of Lot, the mod dreadful
outrages arc daily committed jDuket'iiz James's,
and other noblemen's castles, have been burnt to
the ground ; the inifcieants f'pread havock and
terror through the country ; they burnt all be
fore them, threaten the peaceable, and stir up
the peasants to infurreftinn.
Fifty men of tlie National guard are to do du
ty at the palace with the King's household.
There was some noise yesterday at t heTnuilleries;
the mob were not allowed to walk in the apart
ments after prayers ; they ihouted their difcon-
:ent
Afiignats lots j6 per eenf. ! A louis-d'or is fold
foV fourteen livres more than its former value.
Madame the Duchess of Orleans inet with a
pleating proof of the consideration 10 which
her virtues have entitled her.—At the meeting
of the Duke's creditors in the Hall of the Palais-
Royal, it was debated what annuity Should be al
lowed to the Duke. The sum was eagerly con
tested, diminished, and diminished again ; the
mod: trivial interests were dil'puied and refufed ;
contingencies and fractions were the fubjeifl of
quarrel and debate. But when the quettion was
Hated to the creditors, What income lliould be
allowed to the Duchess ? the cry was inftanc
and unanimous, " Every thing She chooses ; we
leave it entirely to her Highness ; let her name
it, we will sign before hand."
The architects emyloyed to arrange the saloon
where the Aflembly holds its fittings in a more
convenient manner, have reverfea it entirely.
The Presidents armed chair and bureau are now
placed where the tribunal was fituared before,
the right hand is consequently become the
left, and we behold the Abbe Kauchet, and the
Briffotsand Ifnards, upon the bench which was
filled by Maury, Cazales and Malouet. The wits
make merry with the circumstance. They call
the Aflembly the microcosme. Thus, fay they,
in the great world, the King, who was at tho
top, is puttied down to the bottom ; the Attor
nies are become eflentially the Aristocratic Body;
Curates are amazed to find themselves Bishops ;
the soldier commands liis officer, and the ass
rides his master.
LONDON, February 14.
M. Rochambeau, the fonof the Marlhal, lately
pronounced, in the parifti of Maubeuge, an eulo
gium on the valour and patriotifin of Bernard,
a private in the third regiment of cavalry, who
closed a long military career in the service of
his country. An officer preaching a funeral fer
inon on a common soldier could not fail to be
peculiarly striking.
Extrafl oj a letter from Paris, February 6.
" The King looks very ill ; he is more than
usually pensive, eats liitle, sleeps less, takes no
exercise, andabftains from his wonted comforter,
Burgundy. The Queen's en-bonpoint increases."
February 23.
A great perfonagc, with that justice and libe
rality which have ever conllituted the force of
his chamber, has, it is Paid, requested an ac
count of his foil's debts to be laid before him,
that he may pay them out of his privy purse ; it
is (aid, that, in confideraiion of the decrease ot
the value of money, it will be proposed to make
an addition of io,oool. a year to the income ot
the illustrious debtor.—This will inoft afl'uredly
be just, »s well as generous.
A great commercial house at Bordeaux, lias
received a letter from a correspondent at Mad
rid, dated January 26th, stating that the inha
bitants of the capital of Spain are in a great fer
ment, and the Court in the utmost condo nation.
The occasion is dated to have been as follows :
Th# Corregidor of Madrid had given leave to
a Bookseller to print an edition of the French
Couftitntinn, on condition of printing but a very
small number of copies. Five or lix thousand
were, however, printed, which were inltantlv
purchased and carried off. N
Count Florida Blanca, the Minister, gave or
ders to seize the Printer, the Corregidor, the co
pies, and the buyers of the work.
This proceeding rouzed the indignant people ;
and it is alio dated, that the Minilfer paid- very
dear for his arbitraty rashness.
The letter concludes thus, —"Things are going
forward here, which 1 dure not trufl to paper
A few'days ago died, at Filh-hill, in Cumber
land, Mr. Frederick Harpe, at clie extraordinary
great age of 120 years.PHILADELPHIA, MAY J.
km
that the people are in the greatest conrteioation.
Where one sentence is publiihed in favor or fuppor
measures of government which have raised this country to p -
feflt enviable situation, whole columns appear to peifua . P
pie .hat their senses deceive .hem, and .hat th. men who a d
their country in war, are comr.v.ng the deftrua.on of i.s hbe".«
» peace—With what face then i. it (a,d that attempt, are made to
"wtt'eha^would the people have for freed™, ,f the friends
of that government whose basis is liberty, Ihould by the arts ol m
enemies, be precluded from cxpofing their bv
{hackling the press ?—There are more ways than one of doing
this.
THE STATUE.
WHAT, faife a Statue trf his glory !
In fact a most prepoft'rous story !
By faliiels in and out doors Icouted,
Its policy by shrewd ones doubted—
Old Congrcfs, when it pafs'd the vote,
Were poor as death, without a coat-
But glowing with celestial zeal,
To Ipeak what grateful bofjms feel, '
RefolvM the Sculptor's hands ftiould (how
What virtues can exist below —
Thev pledg'd their Country's faith and fame,
T' immortalize its Hero's name—
But those who on a Coin can trace
The features of a Tyrant's face,
To save the credit of the nation,
Evade the sacred obligation 1
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVALS AT the PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Cleopatra, Mead, Savcnnah
Allouier, Datolio, St. Marks
Schooner John, Post, C. Francois
"Isabella, Green, ditto
Lively, Marble, North-Carolina
Mary, Smith, ditto
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf entirely to the
PURCHASE AND SALE of STOCKS ON COMMISSION,
Begs leave ro offer his lervices to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to favor him with
their business, may depend upon having it tranfa&ed with the ut
most fidelity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of the
United States will be ftri&ly attended to.
May 2,
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY, March 27.
Sketch of the debate on Mr. Giles' notion, that the
Vrefident of the United States be r/quejled to order
an enquiry into the cattfes of the defeat of the army
under General St. Clair, ire.
MR. VINING enquired what was the objeifl
of the resolution —in what way was it to
be carried into execction ! for if the House is
not furniflied with some answer to thefc enqui
ries, he did not fee how gentlemen could vote
for it—He conceived that this indefinite mode
of procedure would only embarrass the President,
without producing the desired effedt—He was in
favor of a full and complete invefligation of the
bnfinels ; and if there has been any deficiency,
let those who are to blame be impeached j he
was not disposed to screen any officer from jus
tice, let him be of what rank he may—but he
was not fatisfied with the mode now proposed ;
he did not consider it as conflitutional or prac
ticable.
Mr. Boudinot faicl he was surprised to hear the
gentleman from Delaware express a doubt of the
practicability of instituting an enquiry into the
late unfortunate business »«the mode proposed—
for his part, he saw no such difficulties in tlie
way, as appeared to the gentleman. Mr. Bou
dinot then dated certain complaints which ex
ited, and were currently reported-tfuch as a
failure of the contratfs, and for aught that ap
peared to the contrary, the misfortunes of the
army may be traced to that cause—other com
plaints are circulated, refpetfing which the pub
lic have a right to be fatisfied—Theprefent pro
portion goes no further than a fiinple request—
Having fignif.ed the wifl, of the House, the Pre
lident may adopt such measures 111 relation to
the fubjeft, as he may fee proper.
,Mr. Giles supported his motion—He conceived
that the enquiry was indispensable, and the mode
proposed ftritfily proper—The business mult be
g'n <»me where—this House is the proper source
as the immediate guardians of the public interest!
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(<•'•)
Mr. Viuing rofc to explain—he dated various
difficulties which would impede the progress of
the bofinefs in the informal mode proposed
these, he observed, were so great, as to involve
an impoflibility of prosecuting the investigation
to any purpose.
He supposed that a more proper and conititu
tional way, would be to call on the heads of de
partments to give an account of their conducfl.
Mr Clark observed, that it was evident the
public mind was greatly agitated—an enquiry
was neceflary—lf the mode proposed Ibould not
prove agreeable or convenient to the Prelidcnt,
he will let us know it.
Mr. W. Smith observed, that this was the nrlt
instance of a proposition on the part ofthis House
to enquire into the condtufi of officers who are
immediately under the controul of the executive
—In this view of the fubjeift, the resolution pro
posed could not but be considered as an impeach
ment of the condu<sl of the firftmagiftrate.—Mr.
Smith then adverted to the division of the pow
ers of the government, expressly provided for in
the constitution—Gentlemen, said he, have dis
covered great solicitude to keep the branches se
parate and di(tin<st ; but on this occasion, from
the consideration that this House is the grand in
quest of the nation, they seem to discover a dil
poiition to go into a similar mode of condutf with
th« National Aflembly of France, who spent a
whole night in examining a Drum Major—He
would not fay that they had not a right so to do,
but he believed no gentleman would juflify such
a line of eondudl on the part of this House.
He then particularized the several objerts of
enquiry in relation to the present bnfinefs—He
{hewed that the constitution had made provision
in all the several cases—And as it was the duty
of the President of the United States to carry
the laws into execution, it ought to be (hewn that
he has been remiss in his duty, before he is call
ed on in this way—He noted the account pub
liflied by the Secretary of War, by ~ direction of
the President, and considered as his a<ft—After
several other remarks, Mr. Smith concluded by
faying, that in any cafe wheie it Ihall appear
that the Supreme Executive has not done his du
ty, he ihould be fully in favor of an enquiry—
but till that was done, he trusted the meafore
would .not be adopted, without at least a previ
ous and full difculfion.
Mr. Williamfon said he doubted the propriety
of the resolution in its present form ; but was
fully of opinion that an enquiry into the expen
diture of all public money, was the indispensable
duty of this House—He proposed the appoint
ment of a feledl committee to enquire and report.
Mr. Kittera moved to amend the resolution,
by substituting a feledi committee.
Mr. Venable was in favor of the original mo
tion—He conceived that it was the only proper
mode of proceeding—nor had he any apprehen
sion that the President would consider it as en
croaching in the smallest degree.
Mr. Giles contended that his motion was fofar
from tending to blend the several branches of go
vernment, that its effect would be the reverse.
Mr. Steele said he was indifferent as to the
mode, provided the business was fully gone into.
The gentleman from South-Carolina has menti
oned the report of the Secretary of War, and has
said that it is considered as the acft of the Prefi
• dent of the United States. Mr. Steele denied
that it was the President's atfl—it vras not fatis
fadtorv—will any gentleman on this floor, said
he, fay it is fatisfatffcory to him ? He enumerated
leveral articles of complaint, and observed that
he had no great doubt that an enquiry would
lead to an impeachment—Jufticeto the public,
and th« officers particularly concerned, loudly
demands an enquiry.
Mr. Vining here moved that the refolntion
should be committed to a feletff committee.
Mr. Boudinot objected to the idea of a com
mittee—He said the time would not admit of it
—witnefles, said he, are perhaps 800 miles oif
what progress can a committee make in such a
buftnefs ? He denied that it was the duty of the
President to institute the enquiry unleis he was
requeued to do it—The magnitude of the objects
of enquiry would involve such an expense, that
the President would not be juftified in incurring
it, unlets he was authorised by the House He
then Hated some particulars to ffiew the practi
cability of the measure—among others, that there
were a fufficient number of officers present, to
form what is denominated a court of enquiry.
Mr. Barnwell \»as oppoled to the original mo
tion—he considered it as informal, and suggest
ed what he considered as the pioper mode of
procedure, which was to call 011 the several offi
cers of government for such information in the
business as may be necefiary—He was againll the
commitment.
The motion for a felecl committee was rec3-
tiveU.
The Que ft ion then was on agreeing to the resolution.
Mr. Hiilhoufe j aid he believed this was the firft time that
it was e\er contemplated to appoint a Court Martial to en
quire into the expenditure of public monev.
426
. Mr. Fittfiraafts said he conceived that several parts of fte
refolurion were improper—He thought that it was entirely
out of order to request the President of the United States to
institute a Court Martial or a Court of Enquiry—The rea
sons and propriety of such courts- are better and more full*
known to the President than to the members of thfc Houfe__
Ho was in favor of a committee to enquire relative to fuchob
je&s as come properly under the cognizance of this House—
particularly refpefting the expenditures of public money—
and if the resolution should be disagreed to, as be hoped it
would, he should then move for such a commttee.
Mr. Baldwin said he had made up his mind on the fu! jest—
He was convinced the House could hot proceed but bv a com
mittee of their own—such a committee would be able to throw
more light on the subject, and then the House would be able
to determine how to proceed ; and if any failure 1 ad taken
place on the part of the executive officer-, he Ihould then 1*
prepared to address the President, and to request him to take
the proper steps in the cafe.
Mr. Seney advocated the resolution, and several ob
jections against a committee.
Mr. Hartley said as it was probable some degree rf odium
would fall on those who might vote against this refulutioft—
he thought proper to give some reasons why he ihould vote -
g linft it—These were similar to what had been ottered bv se
veral other gentlemen against the relolution, as improper and
informal.
Mr. Madison started some difficulties in the bnf.neft-eiie.
said the House ought to deliberate well, before they requefA
the President to do a thing which he had it not in his powSf ;
to do—lt was evident that the object of a court-martial or
court of enquiry, must be to elucidate facts which would re
quire the presence of officers, who could not pofliblygive their
attendance in season to meet the object of the resolution— ifc
added some further remarks, and then the qveftiori on the re
solution being put, it was negatived.
A committee was afterwards appointed.
MONDAY, April
The duties on spirits distilled from domestic produce, were
reduced from 8, 9, io, 12, 15, and 20 cents (as reported by the
committee) to 7, 8, 9, > I, 13, and '8 cents.
The ayes and noes on the question for agreeing to the duty
of 8 cents, reported by the oommittee, were as follow :
AYES.
MeflTrs. Ames, Barnwell, Eenfon, Boudinot, S. Bourne,
B. Bourne, Clarke, Fitzfjmons, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue,
Gordon, Hillhoufe, Kitchell, Lawrance, Learned, Lee, J.
Smith, W. Smith, Sterrett, Sturges, Svlrefter, Thatcher,
Treadwell, Wadftvorth, AVard —26.
N O E S.
Messrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown, Findley, Gregg, Grove,
Heifter, Huger, Jacobs, Key, Livermore, Macon, Madison,
Moore, Murray, Niles, Page, Parker, Seney, Sheredine, I.
Smith, Steele, Sumpter, Tuckcr,White, Williamibr,Willis —27.
"WEDNESDAY, M*v 2.
An engroSid bill concerning the duties on spirits diftillcit
within the United States, was read the third time, and psffed.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr. Otis,informed the Hoine
that they have appointed a committee on their part, to join
with such committee as the House shall appoint, to wait on the
President of tbe United States, and notify him of the proposed
recess of Congress.
An engrpfiecl lull to confirm an award of referee's between
tbe United States and certain contractors for furniihing lup
plies of provisions to the army during the late war, was read
the third time, and on the question, (hall this bill pass ? it was
negatived, ayes 25, noes 27.
MefTys. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, S. Bourne, B. Bourne,
Fitzfimon", Goodhue, Gordon, Hillhoufe, Lav/rance, Learned,
Livermore, Page, Schoonmaker, J. Smith, I. Smith, \V. Smith,
Sterrett, Sturges, Svlvefter, Thatcher, Tucker, \ ining,
Wadfworth, Ward— 25.
NOES.
MeiTrs. Aflie, Baldwin, Brown, Clark, Dayton, Gile*, Gil
man, Grove, Heifter, Key, Kitchell, Lee, Macon,
Madison, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Niles, Parker, Seney,
Sheredine, Steele, Sumpter, Venable, White, WiUiajnfon—2/.
A meflage from the President of the United States, by Mr.
Lear, informed the House that the President did this day ap
prove and sign two acts—one entitled, u An ad for railing a
farther fuin of money for the protection of the frontiers, and
for other purposes therein mentioned;" the other, Ar. act
to provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws c
the union, suppress infurretoons, and repel invasions "
An engrofled bill relative to the compensations to n
officers employed in the collection of the duties of impost an
tonnage, was read the third time, and palfed.
In committee of the whole, on the bill 1 implement a < to
ast making provision for 4 the debt of the United States i e
committee difcnfled the firft fe<ftion, tofe and reported pi_ogre -
A second meilage from the Senate informed the Hou.e, ? -
the Senate have palled the bil l , entitled, uAn a& autliorizm o
the grant and conveyance of certain lands to John eve
Symmes add his affbciates," with several amendment-, a. o,
that they agree to some and disagree to others of the ainen
ments proposed by the House, to the bill entitled, ' An ac..
the relief of persons imprisoned for debtand that tiiey agre
to some and disagree to others of the amendments ; propoie
the House, to the bill entitled * Anaclfor regulatingprot e
in the courts of the United States, and providing compensa
tions for the oif.cers of the fa id court:, and for jurors and »■
neJes.'
THURSDAY, May 3.
Mr. Sheredine had leave of absence for u,e
residue of the session.
The amendments of the Senate to 1 lie bll • a
thorizing the grant and conveyance of certain
lands to John Cleves Symmes—were taken in
consideration and agreed to. .
The amendments of the Honfe to the bill
the relief of persons imprisoned for debt, :3 *
greed to by the Senate, as by their menage 0
ye'derday, were receded from 011 the part 0 t 1
The mefl'age of the Senate respecting the a
mendments of the House to the biil regulating
procefl'es in the courts of the United States, w
taken into conftderation—to some of these al ,
inents the Senate agreed, to otheis th ( > ■
with amendments, and to others - 1 .. ef
The Senate disagreed to the amendment to '
second {(('lion, which was to strike out t
words, ''and be at liberty to purine the lame,
YES.
Adjourned-until a tender of the debt ancl cofrs, in gold and
silver, fhaJi be made." A morion to recede, for
,| ie purpofe of restoring this clause, occasioned
a Jong debate, which was finally negatived—
ayes 18, noes 38.
The House proceeded through the refidne of
the amendments, they receded from forne, difa
areed to by the Senate, and infilled on others—
and then, on motion of Mr. W. Smith, a com
mittee of conference on the disagreeing votes
of the two Hoiifes was appointed, conlilhng of
jyjr. Madison, Mr. Lawrance and Mr. Clark.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr. Otis, in
formed the House, that they have taken into
consideration the bill entitled, " All adt provid
ing for theremilfion of certain duties," and have
j-el'o]ved that the said bill should not pass to the
third reading. Mr. Otis also informed the House,
that the Senate have appointed Mr. Wingate as
a committee on enrolled bill, inllead of Mr.
Bradley, wh-o is absent.
Another mefliige from the Senateinformcd the
House, that they concur in the vote for a confe
rence on the process bill—also that they have
palled a bill for continuing the adi therein men
tioned,and providing for the payment of invalid
pensions.
111 committee of the whole on the bill supple
mental to the ad making provision for the public
debt.
A motion by Mr. Fhzfimons, to the following
purport, was agreed to—That certificates of Hate
cltbt ifl'ued fubfeqnent to January i 790, should,
after the day of be subscribed in part
oftlie fuin provided to be afiumed in any parti
cular Hate, which has not filled up its subscrip
tion of state debts, agreeable to the funding law.
Mr. Madison moved toauiend the lec r tion which
relates to pcirchafes of the public debt, by inferr
ing the word " lowest" before the words " mar
ket price"—considerable debate ensued on this
motion, but without a decision the committee
rose, and the House adjourned.
FRIDAY, May 4.
A bill to continue in force an ast therein mentioned, and to
provide for the payment of invalid pensions, received ftom the
Senate yesterday, was read thtee times and patted. The ast re
ferred to, is the ast to mitigate or remit the penalties and foifei
turcs accruing from breaches of the revenue laws—this title was
added to the title of the bill.
f A bill for the relief of the river and bay fifheries, was read the
firft time, and laid on the table.
Mr. Bourne, of the committee of enrolment, reported the fol
lowing bills as truly enrolled :
An ast for granting and conveying a tract of land to John Cleves
Syminesand his aflociates—And
An ast for altering the time of the nextannual meeting of Con
gress.—The Speaker iigned said bills.
The report of a feleft committee on the account of John B. Cut
ting, was taken into confederation —this account was for monies
expended in procuring the release of American seamen, impretfed
on board Biitifh ships in England in iheycar 1790, &c.—this re
port propofesthat 20C0 dollars fliouhd be paid to Mr. Cutting, in
part of his account, and such further payments be made as vouch
ers (hall be produced for, which, in the opinion oI the Secretary
of Stat#, (hall appear just.
After some conversation on the fubjeft, the reading of the ac
count called for, a motion was made for clearing the gal
lery, which was cleared accoidingly. The Houie bung again
opened,
An atf for fettling the accounts of A. W. White, against the
United States, was taken into confiderdtion in committee of the
whole—after iome discussion, ilic bill was reported wuhout
n imenr.
Tne bill after fjme debate was ordered to be engrofled for a
third reading.
Mr. Lawrance introduced a motion to repeal the resolution of
the 24th ult. for adjourning the sth inflant, and to alter the time
to the iotli, next Thurlday—which was adopted.
Mr. W. Smith moved that the House should take into confede
ration the repQrt of the feiett committee on the themorial of Mr.
Ccracchi, relative to a ttatue of General Washington—this moti
on was not agreed to.
A bill conccrning the claim of J. B. Cutting againfl the United
States, was twice read, and committed.
On motion of Mr. B. Bourne, a committee was appointed to re-
P°'t a bill 01 bills, providing for the expencts of ftationaiy and
cleik tare, incurred by the fcveral commiilioners of loans.
A report of the Secretary of War, on the petition of Dr. R. 11.
Courtes, was read—and a motion made for a committee to bring
lll . a bill for com pen fat wig the petitioner for his pay and rations—
M'is motion was laid on the table.
In committee of the whole, 011 the blJl entitled, an a& supple
mental to the ait making,provifiort for the debt of the United
'States—Mr. Muhlenberg 111 the chair.
Mr. Madifoil's motion to infe'rt the word louiejl before the
words " market price," was agreed to—24 to 23. The commit-,
tee proceeded thiough the difcnffion of the remaining fe&ions—
twey then rose and reported the bill with amendments —Thcfe
were taken into consideration—the fiift was on inferring the word
wtr/?.this was disagreed to—the other amendments were
Ucti-Mi was aided to the following purport —That all fu
ture pur chafes of public debt fha-ll be made at the ioweft price
at which ilic lame can be obtained by open parchafe, or by re
ceiving foaled proposals. See.
The bill w*s then laid on tl»e table.
A second m• iiige from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Otis, in
armed the House that thev have palled the bill concerning fpi ii
d'it'llert w h*n the United Slates, with amendments—also, tha.
thtrv concur in the amendments of the Honfe to the bill to conti
nue m force :he a6l therein mentioned, and to provide for the pay
ment ol invalid pensions.
A tbird meiLg' from the Senate, informed the House that they
ave paflrd the bill relatjv to the compen! itions of certain offi
cers employed in the collection of the duties of impofl and ton
nage— also, that they have concurred in the resolution for altering
c time of adjournment, with an amendment.—This amendmen
aas to flrike out Thursday, and to insert Tuesday the Bih inft.—
t»e Houle concur red in this amendment.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, _ 21 /
H per Cents, _
Deferred, .... Ta/g
Indents, _
Final Settlements, - . 181/6
-Half (hares Bank U. S. 40 per cent, premium
Philadelphia, May 5.
• T W °' P? rties » a correspondent, have shewn themselves
in the doings of the new government. One have evidently
thought favorably of a great public debt—whereas the other
have viewed it as an evil, however necefl'ary a one.
So alio, one party have considered Speculation as the very
loul 01 public credit, and as the mark of ufeful enterprise and
turn lug wealth. Tile other, with a contrary eye, have viewed
it as the pampered child of an unruly avarice, and the prolific
paient oi idleness, diJlipation and fraud.
h urthSr, it has -been the endeavor of one party to work the
public d_-bt into an instrument for heaping up vast wealth in
the hands ot a tew, so as by the subtle efficacy of monied influ
ence, to divide and rule the many. The other have ltocd up
against this kind ot policy, as unjust aud unrepublican, and as
injurious to all the best interests of the country.
Again, one party have advocated the widest conftvuftions of
the constitution; so as to carry the powers of the government
far beyond the obvious intent and meaning thereof, and there
fore, beyond the grant of the people. The other have been of
a diiierent temper, and contended for a regular observance of
the constitution, equally where it limits as where it grants
powers, and for carrying it into execution in a republican spi
rit and manner.
Time and events have decided the controversy between
these two sets of politicians; and the public voice seems to be
pronouncing the decision.
It appears that a public debt is a public evil every way,
more especially in fucli a country and government like ours.
All parties now cry out for paying off the debt, as the greatest
of public evils.
It appears that speculation, which in its ardor, filled the
National Bank in one day, and has been kept intoxicated by
the spirit of that institution, ever lince; that speculation,
which has drained all the natural channels of bufinels, in order
to swell the mighty torrent in which it flowed; that specula
tion, which was born in extortion, has been nurled in the arms
of an ill-fated policy, and exhibits the features of its maturity
in baseness, in fraud and in swindling; it appears that this con
spicuous agent in our affairs, in place of the industry, wealth
and solid prosperity promised on one fide, has produced all the
extravagance, prostitution of morals, and devastation of the
true sources of a flourilliing situation, foretold on the other.
It appears, that the schemes for throwing magnificent
wealth into the undeserving hands of a favorite few, and for
undermining the great republican barriers erected by the con
stitution, have opened the eyes of the people, and is calling
forth the demonstrations of their general fan&ion to the strug
gles made by the friends of equal rights of constitutional au
thority and republican measures.
These seasonable iudications of the public mind are a happy
proof of the force of truth among a free people; and of the
ifure, though flow interposition of its authority to controul and
correct an elective government that does not conduct accord
ing to its true principles. This general indignation again#
schemes that might by degrees destroy the republican constitu
tion which binds up the people and states in one great free sys
tem, must be the more pleafmg to every friend of liberty and
the union, inalmuch as it Ihews the fame desire in the people
every where to maintain both, and that they all adhere to the
constitution as eftablilhed by themselves for that purpose, with
defined powers and a republican form. 'Abfc Gaz.
" Two parties, fays a correspondent, have shewn themselves
in the doings of the new government." One have evidently
thought favorably of public credit—whereas the other have
constantly opposed every exertion for its support. The firft
have considered a public debt as a public evil, and have made
the greatest efforts for its reduction and final extinction—the
other have uniformly opposed every system that has been pro
jected; and while they have pretended to consider the public
debt as a necefTary evil, have devised no plan to pay it of.—
except by substituting one promise for another.
So also, one party early attempted to strike at the root of
speculation, by giving a fixed and prompt value to the public
debt—the other by procraltination and opposition, kept alive
the objett of speculation, by the glorious uncertainty of legisla
tive deliberation.
Further, the friends of public credit, by unremitted exer
tions, attempted to place all the creditors upon a footing, by
making provilioji for all the public debts without diftin&ion,
and thus diffufe public justice to all parts of the union. The
other, by their opposition, were the occasion of the debts' fhift
ing hands, and thereby concentering a benefit among a few,
comparatively speaking, which in the natural order of things
would have been felt very extensively.
Again, one party have, with an honest independence of
mind, construed the constitution on that broad scale by which
every thing that relates to the complicated interests of a great
and free republic, just rising into national importance, ought to
be considered. u The other have been of a different temper,"
and contended sometimes for the letter, and sometimes for
the spirit of the constitution, where the one or the other
would serve to hamper and check the operations of the go
vernment, and limit its powers within a sphere commensurate
to their ideas of republicanism.
" Time and events will (in the history of this rising republic)
decide the controversy between these two sets of politicians,
and the impartial voice of the people pronounce the decision."
It appears that a public debt is an evil every way in
some, more than in others, principally in an unfunded way, as
our experience most woefully teftifier—but in such a country
and government as ours, this evil is greatly mitigated, by the
consideration, that under the auspices of domestic peace, and a
steady perseverance in just measures, our resources to rid our
selves of the evil will encreafe with a rapidity which cannot
be calculated; for in this country, as a late writer in the
Gazette of the United States elegantly expressed himfelf,
TIME AND PROSPERITY TRAVEL TOGETHER.
It appears that speculation, which is ever on the scent in
every poflible dire&ion, whether in purchases of goods, public
bills, of exchange, lands, lots, &c. in its ardor, filled the
National Bank in one clav—and here had it flopped, all would
Ihave been well; for a speculation, built on the faith of a righ
teous government, cannot lail—but though forewarned, suc
cess intoxicated the ad venturers ; and the enemies of our ris
ing prpfperity, taking an advantage of the moment, opened
; imaginary profpe<sts*, which terminated in disappointment and
.the ruin of many, while those concerned in the mifchief have
fallen into the ditch they digged for others. But the frenzy
was but for a moment, and induflry, recovered from her sur
prize, has learned a ttioft important lefTon, and is now turning
her attention to her former sober habits.
It appears that the plan for funding the publ
rated to the great advantage of thole \ ho be] • • ov
iftence of a principle of public juilice. "VYhile t
infidels on this occasion, parted with their e\ i
* Certain banking projects in Nczv-York.
427
•bt has ope-
puohc debt—:h»s proving to their disadvantage, they never
can oe reconciled to measures which have proved propitious to
the fortunes of many whose judgements the complainants Lave
always been iu the habit of despising.
As a happy indication of the force of truth among a free
people, the public mind h more tranquil in the United Statej
than in any other part of the habitable globe, the peopls being
enlightened, justly appreciate the blefiings of" good govern
ment. Hence we find that the measures pursued in carrying
the new constitution into effe<ft, have received a very general
approbation—and the lolicitude of adminiltration to adapt the
laws to the wishes and wants of the great body of the enlight
ened citizens of the union, fully evince that the principle" of
aneleftive government pervade all its confntuent branches.—
Long may the people continue to enjoy and prize their repub
lican government—a government which is competent to their
security, peace and freedom—and may they ever discern the
just diltin&ion between such a government, and one that
leaves nothing for industry to hope, or villainy to fear.
The Letter Bag of the Ship Adriana, for Liverpool, will
be taken from the PofUOflice This Evening, at 7 o'clock.
Libutenant's-Office, April 17, 1792.
NOTIFICATION
To the Militia of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia and
Northern Liberties, and the Diftritts of Movameufing and
Paffyunk.
THAT they are to meet and exercise in Battalion, under their
refpettive Officers, on the following days, comn>«ncing the
fiift Monday in May :
The Artillery, and Fir ft Battalion, on the 7th day of May,
Second Battalion, on the B'.h do.
Third Battalion, on the 9th do.
Fourth Battalion, on the 10th do.
Fifth Battalion, on the 1 ith do.
Sixth Battalion, on the 14th do.
Seventh Baitalioti, on the 15th do.
THOMAS PROCTER,
Lieutenant of the City and Liberties of Pinladelphio.
The present Officers commanding Baitalions, and the
Officers of the several Companies, aie to periorm their duties ic
fpeftively on the above field days.
APR 1 L 27, 1 7Q2.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the firtt day of July ensuing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY fituatcd, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing <203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
watcied in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at a« easy expence. The upland lays in ihe
lap of about 50 acrcs of rich out marlh, from which (by an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expcnce ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing stream of water runs through this tract, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good mansion-house, gar
den, and neceflary out-buildings ; an orchard of the best kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees., bearing ; a crop ot wheat and.
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to Dr.
John Gibbons, in Arch-flreet, Philadelphia; Mr. Henry
Waterman, at the Washington, on the Briflol road; or to
Mr. Joseph Baldwin, at Nefhamany Ferry, or Mr. Bar net
Dureen, fame place, Bucks County. The purchaser, paying one
third of the price down, may have a term of years to pay the re
sidue, paying interest. May 5. (ep.tf.)
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing ehe
Protestant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Biunfwick,
agreeable to an a£l of the Legislature of the State of Ncw-Jerfey,
patted November 1791.
SCHEME.
i Prize of 2000 Dollars is 2COO
1
2
5
10
30 *
9°
>675
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
ThisLottPty is composed Tickcls. not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjett to a dedu&ion of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubled kut the undertaking will meet wilh the most
liberal support.
The drawing will positively commence on the second Monday
in July, or fooncr if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of
New-Brunfwick, under the infpettion of Col. John Bayard, Pre
sident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Am
boy; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufa&uring Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had of the following peifons, who arc duly ap
pointed Manageis, are tinder oath, and have given fccurity for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he published, and the
prized paid immediately after the drawing of the Loiti 1 y.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, [ Manageis.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
N. B. Those piizes which are not demanded wnhin fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confidercd as a generous
donation to the Church.
*#* Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per month for their money. To acr.ommc date
all those who may be disposed to purchase Tickets, letters direct
ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Pofttnafter, at New-Brunfwick,
*iid enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for
warded on leceipt of such letters.
New-Brunfwick, April 20, 1792
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC.)
THE SUBSCRIBER HATH OPENED A
House of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES,
In that commodious House lately occupied by Thomas BeaU, Esq.
Mayor of this Town.
He has furnifned himfelf with a stock of the best Liquors, and
will use ev» ry exertion to give fatisfa&ion by procuring, in their
' n, 'he best of every fpccics of provision, and having the fame
mth mod neat and elegant manner.
viiljul.] GEORGE H. LEIGH.
1000
1000
1000
5 00
200
1000
1000
1500
1800
6700
100
5°
20
4
160C0GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
PBII.APEI.rHIA> Ma*CH 34, I7>'-
TMOfOSAIS for tarrying «be Maib of die tJ««cd Sana, OB
X the followiag po# roads in So«ih-C«roliiiJ ii»d Gr-orgii, will
be received attbe Ptf-Ofu in CiuU/n, anul the firfl day of
J—r*t rt.
In Sootb*Ca«oi.i»a.
1. From $Uttp*rg to dark/—, once a week—The mail 10
leave Scatrlbure every Monday morning at nine o'clock, or fttftrr
■wife, <■ hair an boat after llie arrival of ibe northern mail; and
arrin in CharieOon the next day at fo«r o'clock ta the iftrroooo.
JUtmrme, to leave CHatleflon every Friday at three o'clock tntne
lArmoM, Sfld arrive at Sweflwtg the next Sudiy, at viae in tie
■oniar.
Fn> ■» Ctrritp* to Cttrgt-ittn, onee io two week»—Tlie
MlukneChruoamffollin Tnefday, at five o'clock so
the aftcnoOß forotheiwifc io one hoar afar the arrival of (be
■nil from Staufinrg) and arrive at Georgetown the next day, at
Jam ra the ahrtdHt. Kdmng, to leave George-town the next
nming at favo'tlock, and arrive at Chailefton the following
day (Friday) at e£*f it* M>e «wn»n».
3. From CktrUjim to SmtmMti. once in t*o werks—The mill
to leave Char lefton every other Friday, at nine o'clock in the
morning, arrive at Savannah the neat Sunday, at leo o'clock
nib forenoon. Btlrnnimg, to leave Savannah the fame day, at
two o'clock iia the afternoon, M arrivt at Charleston the next
TnrUay at Jtmr in ihe afternoon.
/a Gioicm.
4. From Atgijlii" Wajhirgtm (In Wr!kf» eotmtj) thrnce round
tv the Cteh Fa■ iof Ognhtc and Grm-gtr-S?tr» to At
g¥» —once in two weeks. Tlie mail to leave AuguOa every o
thrr Thurfdav, at four o'clock in the morning, arrrve at Wash
ington the fame day, and complete the circuit on the th:rd day,
grttin* back to Angofta bv fix o'clock in the evening of Saturday.
5. From Sardwui to Scn-tort Bridge and S** ; un. once in two
wrtk*. The mail 10 leave Savannah every ottvr Fndav at one
o'clock in the afternoon [or in on? hour after the arrival of the
northern mair and arrive at Sonbury on the next day at noor.
to leave Sortbury the next Monday at four o'clock in
the morning, and arrive a: Savannah :he fame day, at fx in the
afternoon.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
PhilADftLraiA, MARCH 30, 1794.
PROPOSALS till be itceiTd at this Office until the firft day
Jme aott,for carrfiog tbc Hiilt of the United Stales 00
the following post nwli:
In N'o x t H-Cr. v oli ma, i' f i tu.oz.cen.
i. From Htlifkx by ffmiagtmL, HtUptrrngk, aod Smltm to Sthf
tmrj. Ikaadtolan Halifax every other Tbotfday at fair
o'clock ia the noracag, deliver the mailt at all the
from (brace to Satiibary at loch timet as flull be band mot be
neicialla thefoblic ; and rctora with the mailt from all tbofe
(a at to arrive at Halifax at fix o'clock in the eveaing
of iha TorUay nest prccedmg the ThuHday when it it again to
leave Halifax.
2- From Halifax, by B'untjril/e, Williamson and Baileys, to Ply
mouth. The ma'l to leave Halifax every other Thursday ar toot
o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Plymouth the next morning
at eight o'clock ; leave Plymouth the fame day, and arrive it
Halifax the day after, at fx in the evening.
3. From EdenUfr. bv // r tford, .\'ixoxtcn, Sawyer's Ferry, in
Camden county, to ladiintou.it. in Currituck county- The mail
to leave Edcntun every other Saturday at four o'clock in the
morning, arrive at Indian-town that night, and re;urn to Edenton
the next Monday at jtx in the evening.
fn Vijcima.
a. From Fredrnckfburr to Port Ro\j-\ Tappjt.jnnock, Vrbamc.
thence acrof* the Rjppuaonnck to Northanbcrland Cvurt-Houfe.
to Kinfale on Yeocomico, HjeJlaarfond Court- and Lced-
Jlok*, to urg, one: d week. The mail to leave Tre
derickiburg every Friday at five o'clock, in the morn!n;, ard
making the tour above deferibed, return to Freder.ckfbargh cn
the next Tburfday at nooi«.
5. From Alexandria to Wintkejler. once a week. The mail to
leave Alexandria every Tburfday a: noop. and arrive at Winehef
ter the next Saturdav, at five o'clock in the afternoon; 2nd re
turning , to leave Winchefier every Mend av. at ten o'clock in the
forenoon, and reach Alexandria the next Wednesday, by Jiic in
the afternoon.
6. From Wintfujler to Staunton, once a week. The mail to
leave Wiocheftef every Mooday. at eleven o'clock :n the forenoon,
and arrive atStafcntoo the next Wednesday by Jhe in the after
noon ; and to leave Staonion every Ttiurfday at eleven
o'clock in the forenoon, and arrive at Wine better the next Satur
day bv five tit die afternoon.
In Virginia, the Tekkitost Sooth tf ike Omo and
Kehtuckiy.
t. From Stnntmby Lexington, Tinca/Ue,, Men'gomery Court House,
Wythe'Covrt Honfr, and Abir.gdon, to Hawkins Court Hcnfin tne
Territory Sooth 0/ the R vcr OSio. once in two weeks. The
nail to leave Staunton every other Thu»fday,at ten o'clock in tbe
forenoon, an( j arrive at Hawkins Court House the next \VedneC
(*.a- at five o'clock in tne afternoon ; and returning, to leave Haw-
V ins Court House the next morning at five o'clock, and arrive a;
Staunton the week following:, on Wednesday at noon.
8. Fmm Ei'xkins Court House to Dar.vilk in Kcntuckey, once in
t-A-o weeks. The mail to leave Hawkins Court House every other
Thursday, at fix o'clock in the morning, acd arrive at Danviile
the next Tuesday at five o'clock in the afternoon ; and returning %
♦o Irate Danville ihe Friday following at f« o'clock in the morn
ing, and arrive at Hawkins Court House the next Wednesday by
noon.
Note.—As the condition of tbe count/y between Hawkins
Court House and Danville may render the regular carriage of the
mail impracticable, the pcrfons who (ball offer to coniradt, will
slate in their propofafs the times and manner in which they think
the carriage of that mail most eligible and practicable, so that it
be not oftener reran once in tzco vjtehfy nor }ess frequent than once
in /wr wel/, aj'fer aifoch a degree of regularity is attainable
aid fta»e tbe terms on which they will so carry it : or, if they
th ok it practicable, to carry this mail regulaiiy once in two
■weeks Cooing and returning) or once in four weeks ; they will
diftinfiiy Aalc the terrof on which they will carry it for one pe
riod and for the ejther.
In the Slate Delawap.i ar.dVi *ci kia.
f) Fro-n W-.ln rgin by Stwcoftle, (artaril's Bridge and Duck-
Creek t- Dr.tr, once a wi-ek. Ihe mail io leave Wilmington
every Monday at three o'clock in the afternoon, and air *e at Do-
Ter ~i Ttiefday by Jive in the afternoon— retiming, to leaTe Dover
on Wednefdav by f.r: o'clock in the rwrmii;, and ariiveat Wil
mington by fix in the evening, or bv nive o'clock on Thurfdav
morning. From Dover to the L*fier* Skore of Virginia sn d
Nvrfcii, cure in two weeks. The mad 10 leave Dover every o.
ther M a: five o'clock ' n the morning, pass Dag/bctcuj/i,
Stctv-KV. and Arxomac Court Houft, ana arrive at Kjitkamiton
Comt HrivJ'e the following Saturday by five o'clock in the alter,
noon, proceed across the ferrv to Noifolk the nr*t day, and r r l
tern to Northampton Coort Hotife the followng Tuefdav, bv five
o'clock in the afternoon ; leave Northampton Couit Motile on
-doefdav at five o'clock in the morning, and atrive at Dover
the rrxt Saturday bv f<"e in the evening.
%-f J IV ' rr < ,r '' offering propolis for carr\ ing mail, w il]
be plcafed to date the termj on which thev will carry it on-r in
every xneek.
/> UAITL4»
tc. From Lef;--n (on the £aAcro "o - sad t-;^f
bv is Jnry, to Smnc HiU,once a wrtit. The mail 10 leave EaJUo
on Wtdscidiy, at eleven o'clock in :3e f*>fenooo, and amvelhe
next day at Ii !I by tus ic iH; z'ui-ixm. P.cti'r --, lo
leave Snow Hii! oo Fit Jay n-.or:i:c* at z, and arrive at Latbn
on Saturdav i>v boo.;.
XI. From **' 'lo lifter J&n- ! ' armgk* PipMaxoa, Port To
btcco, Ai.'-'s Frepii Kcufyrrty Cfaptu*, and Leona* dtcu.r., orKea
werk. The rr.au to leave Anoapottson Tuefcay, at fix o'clock sn
the morr.in?, reach Pifcatawa that evening,and arrive at Leonard
town 00 Wednesday evening, or by n»ne o'clock on Tharlday
morning. Retmrmng, to leave Lecrard-towo on Thursday, at
tkrez in the aftrmoon, and arrive at Annapolis 00 Saiuraay, at
Jrce\n the afternoon.
19. From Ba/t mtrehv FreJ'iyck-tozm *n&SkarpfexTg,to Hater's
tsrcn% and thence to Chamber once a week. Toe ma:l to
leave Baltimore on Saturday, at three o'clock the afternoon, and
arr-re at Cr2mberfbarg the next Monday byJcven in toe evening,
or on Tu-fday by fcten in the morning. Returr.ins. to leave
Chamberibtfg cn Wednesday morr.rng at five o'clock, acd ar
rive a: Baltimore on Friday by four in tbe afternoon.
Ju the States Ni w-J utiY^^.Viw-Voii.
xj. From Philadelphia to Bifi.tr cm. once a week. The mail ro
leave Philadelphia onThurfday by fix o'clock in the mora-.n*. and
arrive at Bethlehem on Friday by nise in the morning. Return
rug, to leave Bethlehem on Monday by fix in tbe morning, and
arrive in Philadelphia by rize on Tuetday morning.
14. From Bethlehem to Reading, once a week. The mail to
leave Bethlehem on Friday, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, and
arrive at Reading bv eight on Saturday morning. Returning, to
leave Reading at nine o'cTock the fame morning, and arrive at
Bethlehem by /even in the evening.
15. From Readrngby once a week. The
mail to leave Read.ngcn Friday mornig bv fix o'clock, arrive at
Carlisle the next day by fiven in tbe evening. Returzirg, to leave
Carlisle on Monday morning at fix o'clock, and arrive at Harrif
bor| by noon ; leave Ham (bar g the next Wednefdav bv fix
o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Reading by Jix on Thursday
even 1 nr.
16. From BetkJekem by Eiflcn snd Sujfex Ccirt Hcifc. to Go/ken,
once a week. The ma:l to leave Bethkbcm every Friday at ten
o'clock in the forenoon, and arrive at GoOitn by nine o'clock the
next Monday roornine. Returning, to leave Golfcen the follow
ing Wednefdav at fix o'clock in the morning, and arnve at Beth
lehem by nine o'clock the next Fridav morning.
17. From Gtflun by Ward's Bridge and Kingjlwm to Rhineieck,
once a*r* k. The mail to leave Go (hen on Wednesday morning,
at fix o'clock, and arrive at Rhinebeck on Thqrfday forenoon by
eleien. Returning, leave Rhinebeck the fame day by noon, and
arrive at Gcfhen on Friday evening bv Jix.
18. From E\zaieth-lazvn or A'euari to 'forris-toan and SnJJex
Crurt Keufe. once a week. The mail to leave Elizabeth-town or
Newark on Wednefdav at noon, and arrive at Suflex Court House
on Thvrfday by two o'clock in the afternoon. Returning, to leave
SuTex Court on the ftme day at three in the afternoon, and
arrive at Elizabeth-town or Newark, on Fr.dar, by fx in the
eveninf.
19. From Woodbridge to Ambry, on Tuesday, ThurMay, and
Saturday, or every day tn the week, Sunday excepted. The per
fom disposed to contraQ for tbe carriage of this mail, to state the
different terms on which they will thus carry it, three or Jix times
a well. The hours of arrival and departure to correspond with
the arrivals of th: - mail from Philadelphia at Woodbridge.
20. From Philadelphia, bv Seuen to Bridgelonil, once a week.—
The roail to leave Philadelphia every Thursday at three o'clock in
the afternoon, and arrive at Bridgetown on Saturday by Jeven in
tie morning. Returning, to leave Bridgetown on Monday by four
in »he afternoon, and arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by
eght in the moroing.
Im ike SlMiti tf Kiv-ToiiaA'tiitocT.
«i. From Albany by SdunaSdfy to Cenmajorturrie, ooce a week.
The mail to leave Albany every Thorlday at fix o'clock in tbe
morn:ng, and arrive at Camujorharrie on Friday by tern in the
forenoon ; leave Connajorharric the fame day at one in the after
noon, and return to Albany the next day by five io the afternoon.
22 Frcm A!btm (by 7V«rand Lnifmgbmrg) to Bmitigton, Mat.
chjler and Kutttni, once a week. The mail to leave Albafiy every
Thai fday at si* o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Benmngtori
the fame day at four is tbe afternoon; to leave Bennington on Sa
tordav at fx in the morning, and proceed to Marichefter and Rut-
I'nd : get back to Bennington the next Tnefday, and arrive at
Albany by Wednesday noon.
23. From Rullari to BarKngln on Lake Champlain, onee in
two weeks. Tbe mail to leave Rutland on every other Monday
at fix o'clock in tbe tnoroiog, and arrive at Borliogaon oo Tuct
day at noon: leave Burlington oo Wednesday at fx in the morn
ing, and arrive at Rutland the next day by noon. ,
£3" Tte perfcro who. offer propobls fm the carriage of this
mail, will be pica fed to state tbe terms on which they will carry
it ffw; a ami.
On Coknscticut River
24. From Springfield in Massachusetts, by XortLampto* to Brat
tU'.vovgh in Vermont, once a week. The mail to ieave Spring
field every Monday at one o'clo-k in the afternoon, and arrive at
Braitleborough the next day at f.ve in tbe afternoon : Jeave Brat
tleborough the next Saturday at noon,and arrive a: Springfield the
next Monday by nine in the morning.
25- From by Chart' and TTitAJar, to Hinorer
in New-Hampfnire, once a week.. The mail to ie.ve Brattiebo
rou.h every Wednesday at five o'clock in the morning, and reach
V.'indfor by five in the afternoon: leave it on Tharfday at one
o'clock in the afternoon, and reach Hanover at fee : leave Hanc
ver at fire o'clock on Friday mornine, and arrive at Brattlroo
roufh hv eleven o'clock nn Saturday forenoon.
2* From Springjitli in Ma:Tichufett». bv SfdcktriJgr'o Ririrr.
hook in the State ot New-York, once a week. The mail »o leave
Springfield every Monday at noon, arrive at Stockbridge the next
day bv noon, and at Kinderhook ou Wednefdav by noon : 10
!«ave Kinder nook on Thurfdav at noon, and return to Springfield
by the next Monday at nine in the rooming.
27. From Hem-York to Hi'tfiri in the state of Connecticut,
through White Plains, North-Castle, Salem, Poundndge, Ridgt
field. DtuAmty, Newtown, New-Milford, Utchjuli, Harrington
and raririr.ston, once a week. The mail to leave New. York on
Thurfdav at lour o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Hartford
by eight o'clock in the morning of the next Monday. Rctwving,
to leave Hartford the fame Monday at ten o'clock in the forenoon,
and arrive a: New-York by eight o'clock in the morning of the
next Thurfdav.
%* As it is fuppofrd that the pafiTng of ihe mail through fnme
other towns, or part of this nppet route, from New-York to
Hartford, mav be more er'enfivclv irfeful, ihe persons inclined to
comraft for the carnage of it, will beplrafed to make two dift'ncl
proDofals; one for the route above described ; the other with
ftieh deviations as thev think will be mod ufelul to the inhabi
tants ; bot in both cases to pass through Danhry and LitciifriJ.
/» Massachoiittj aid Rhodi-Islam)
28. From Saltl to Gbucejler, twice a week. The mail to leave
G'oucefter every Monday and Thursday morning at fix o'clock,
and arrive at Salens by nine. Returning.' to leave Sttem every
Wednesday and Saturday by two in the afternoon, and arrive at
Glouceßer the fame day by Jive
C-? It a runs oftener, or on any other dav*. be
tween Sairrn and Gloncefter, any persons difoofed 10 contratt for
tfre carriage of the mail, may conform their proposals to the ufua
al days and hoursof the departure and ariiva! of the stage-waggon.
428
*9- fmiMstoMMibA..
(a *lu iMe
Hi»j the Bw» w wtri they «iB any » f-4- » --rrir. dm
trMtt nqtrkfUtietry '» Ac week, Saaday csorpa^; ih
tworfdniiftaiwiwl f miiihnaii ■ftfcinMrfitf
MicUatt
Bfjimt and Vm.
JO. Frop Strata every week,
ctpied; boots of 4t|ailve aid lrmal to amfotm to Ue
bemrs of the departare aad arrival of the ftage-waggna daily paftgg
bavcca thole two pbcrt.
31. Jrom by to tmcr a week. IV
mil 10 leave Boftoa on IWMsf by (m o'clotk m the mara
sag, nxi tuitt at Bardbbk by live o'clock va the attrition on
Friday. Ritmr*i*g y to leave BarnftaMe oa Monday by (am
o'clock in the morn big, aad arrive at Boftoa oa Tucttay by Jie
ia the afternoon.
32. F'om to Tiar/e*, one? a week. The mi !to Irjvp
Bo.ion cn Tharfdav by fix o'clock in tbe marr az, and arrive at
Taunton by two o'clock, in toe anern>on. ReUrtiag, 10 ]ea*e
Ta joion on Tuefdav by 5* o'clock in the moi r lie, arnve at
Boflon by fcur n the afternoon.
33- From Tsnntov* throng*. Wtrm and Brijo l , to A'mierf
once a week. The ma-1 to leave Tzontoa on Thu.iday at tarce
o'clock in the afternoon, and arrve at Newport on Fiiday bv
noon. RrfirtiMg, to leave Newport on Moodzy by eight o'clock
in the mornin?, and arrive at Tauaftoa by Jhe in the iftenoon.
34. From Taunt cn to Xroc-Zeajcri, once a week. The mail to
leave TauiKon on Thursday at iGree o'clock in the afternoon, atd
a-riveat New-Bed ford on Friday by noon. Returning to leave
New-Bedfo'd on Mo»*iay oy nine o'clock in toe coii/ag. loj
arrive at Taunton by f.zz in the aftemooo.
3j- Persons offering propoliU for uityia; (lie three U Bails
(So. 3a, 33, 34,) will be pteafed 10 fat ihciaww which thrj
%riil carrv the mail from throajb Tamxtn id Ktmfmt, jod
the mail jtrov fajiwm ihroogfa to fid bldlo
Boftaa at the timet abuitmimweJ.
36. From 10 Wtrc'.fitT, «nce a week. Ilenfm
leave Pmijcwie on Wedoetday by fix o'clock w the aarang,
•ad arrive at Worcefler by ftx in the crating. Hdwnatg,u love
WorcciVr on Monday by fix in the morning, and arrive ait Ko
vidence by Jut in the evening.
In Niv-Rtimtti.
37. From Pcrtfacmtk by Lxeter to Coweerd. onee a week. The
mail to leave Portsmouth every Monday morning at fix o'clock*
arrive at Exetrr by nine; proceed to Concord, and return to Ports
mouth bv Jire o'clock the oext Wrdnefday afternoon.
The persons offering to eon?ra& for this road, are deGred
also to (late the terms on which they will carry the mail from
Exeter to Concord and back, once a week ; lea*:::* Exner every
Monday at ten o'clock in the mornin?, reaching Concord then;xt
day b\ noon, and re:urniag to Exeter on Wednesday by /» in
the afternoon.
38. From Cor.rvd .'by »od O'JcrtT to iforrrrr, owe ia
twoo weeks. The mail to ieave Concord every other Wrdnefday
by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Hanover the nex! day
by five in the afternoon : to leave HanoveT on Friday at fix o'clock
in the morning, and returning by the *«ra?t*id, arrive at Concord
on Saturday bv fire in the afternoon.
39. For carrying th» mail from Omttri to Hnmer, by the route
above deferibed, once in every week.
4C. For carrying the fame mail ffrom Concnrd to Hanover)bv
the new road, both going and retarmg, once 10 every week, and
on«-e in two weeks.
f | # The terms for carrying the mail bctwtru Ontord and K»-
nover, io the four different ways here mentioned t to be diftiadly
ftatrd.
As some of tnefe mails mar be conveniently cztncA in
stage-waggons, persons inclined tocontreA will be pleafcd to state
tbe terms on which they will so carnr any of them, as well as the
terms on wh?ch thry will carry them on horseback.
Note 1. If hereafter if should appear that any other times for
the arrival and departure of tbe ma-ls woold be more convenient
and nfeful than those above proposed, alterations may accordingly
be made.
2. For every hoar's delav in arriving after the times prrfenbed
in any contra&, the contractor to forfeit one dollar; and for the
non-performance of a trip, double the sura which the vaioe ps
one trip fliall bear to tbe value of the whole number of trip to be
performed.
3. The contrafls to continue in force until the firft day cf
June, 1794.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, Pcf^afier.Gtrtrsl
Publilbed this day, and to be fold by
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
. Book feller. No. 54, Second-street, South—and by all the priscipal
Booksellers in Philadelphia-* Price fths of a Dollar,
IFROCEEDINGS im thi HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES
op the United States of AMERICA,
Refpefting the
CONTESTED ELECTION
For the Eaftem Diftrid of the State of
GEORGIA.
CONTAINING the petition of General Jms 7«l/«,i|rami1
the election of General Anltosi Wayne, and the proceedings
relative to the Resolutions direfiin* ihe mode of conducting the
Trial; with a (ketch of the debate? from the commencement to
the end of the business ; including the speeches of the panics, a
(ketch of Mr. Lewis's defence, council for Geoeial \V ay»e, an
the conc'uuing speech of General Jackfoa. for which he rccetv
the applause of the auditors: also, the lubfequent proceedingsof
the House refpefting his right to a feat afier tbe cLfiiou ot ihz fc--
ting member had been declared illegal.
Together with a SUPPLEMENT. - r r
Containing a summary of the pioceedings of the Let aioreo.
Goorgia, relative to the Impeachment o? Judge Of " n
frcm the papers sent under the seal of the State, and procaced m
by Mr. Baldwin, which were reacted.
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY VIRTUE of an order from John Hoi'-ss, E 3 *-* 3 .
Weat: erby and Benjamin Holmes, Efqrs.
the Couftoi Common Picas tor the Coun:> of Salem, c-r
us to make Sale ol lo much of the Lands ol Ben jam i > C R \
in the Township of Mamogton, in the Couotv of Salem a»orcia»o,
as will defray the expences attending the diviion or pat.- ,
Lands held in common between Abraham Hewl i: s c *° Q '
aforeflid Beuj»!nto Cripps, agreeab v to an aCt of . •. ' c -
In purfaance of the above order, w .11 be Sold by ?*>-•• c N ena ""
a trad or piece of Land {or as much thereof as *'-i- "Jjj, . '
above expences) being part of the above, u'.uate aod fcojn e^*
Lands of fob Shreeve, the aforefaid Abraham '
others, on seventh day 26th of May next, i;Q-- At tbe ° u
of Henry Sparks, Inn-keeper in Salem afo*-*faid by
WILLIAM GOODWIN',)
JOHN" WI STAR rr.a £ Comrr-.uoner
THOMAS CLEMENT, )
2otk April, 1792
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, M**c« -
XTOTtCtTiiTiciVu^'given, That the in-erect for the g^ rl ';'
f\ endicsthi.dn-.anthe FUNDED bEßtoHkLn:trfSu";
Ibiidin? ..n the books of the Treasury, and of the Cotntn 'Ijoiirr ■•
sot (h!< S-ate, will be paid a;the Bank of the Lmted .J ;
Pr WANTED. Ihe Fir ft Volume of the Gaiitjs or >-
United Statis—for vnsch Si x Dollars v. » cP e
the tIJITOK.
4*.cp.