[No. 20, of Vol. IV.]
PRICE CURRENT. Oils. Us. Ms. (tj , l
„ „ , Oil, Ditto pr. cafe. 2/50
rt*. uuamtity. Do 1. l aRs 100 Cents cach. __—Sweet,-beft, in fla(ks,pr.box .fc 50
PHILADELPHIA, August S. ——Ditto bafkeis, 12 bottles 5
• Spermaceti pr. gall. 48
Oils. (Is. Bl's. Ct>. ■* Train 24 37 (
ANCHORS pr. Ib. 7 8 Whale 54 26
Allum, Engliih, pr.cwt. S?J i Porter pr. caik. ?33 1
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11 London , pr.doz. 1 601
A flies, pot, per ton, qo 100 __ American ditto bot.incl. 1 4 160 f
— Pearl, 137 140 Pitch, pr. bbi. 173 ®
Arrack pr. gall. 1 33 1 67 Pork, Biirfihgton, per 11 11 67 (
jßrandy, common, 120 Lower county 10 j
■ Cogniac Is 6 133 Carolina 9 I
Braziletto, pr. ton. 32 34 Peas, Albany pr. bufhcl 73
Bricks, pr? M. 4 7 Pepper, pr. lb. 37 '
Bread, ship, pr. cwt. i 67 2 Pimento 16 (
Ditto, pilot 333 Raisins, best, pr. keg 7 i
Ditto, small water, per keg 36 4° Ditto pr.jar 3 <
Beer, American, in bottles, D j Uo pr box (
pr.doz. bottles includ.d, i4O Rlce pr . cwt . 25 0 2 1
Ditto pr. barrel, 467 R o s in p r . barrel £33 267 -
Boards Cedar pr, M feet, 1.4 R uni) Jamaica, pr. gallon 118 122 ,
New England 11 Antigua 1 j
. 9 10 Windward 93 1
-Merchantable pine 16 17 Barbadocs 87 1
S *P» <*0. 8 -—Country, N. K. 67 i
: .vlahogany, per foot 10 0 ,
' petrc, pr. cwt. 13 33 14
The above are the (hallop prices, Saffafras pr. ton 6 8 1
lor the yard price, add 1 dol- shot duU) , 4 o )
lar' 33 cents per 1000. Steel, German pr.lb. 9 1
Brimft.one in rolls, pr.cwt. 3 33 —I—Englijh,bliiiered,1 —Englijh,bliiiered, pr, cwt. 10 1
Beet, .Boston, per barrel 8 American pr. ton Jl3 33
Country ditto 6 7 Crowley's pr. faggot io 67
F 1 ih, per $wt. 3,33 4 67 Snake root pr. lb. 2© 42
Butter pr.lb. 16 Soap, Brown per Jb. 6
hi kegs 9 10 White 8 I
0n,.,, Sperm, pr.lb. „
—Myrtle Wax f Snuff pr. dor., bot 4 560 ]
Mould, tallow •> !o '
Dipped ,0 Sa,lcloth >tnglini,No.»,pr. yard,
Che'efe, Engii'fli, pr. Ib. J0 Boston, No. I. ditto 30.
Country 8 ,o ; No :, n -
Chocolate ' , y , g Migar Lump, pr.lb 24
Cinnamon ,40 267 Loaf, (ingle refined 2b
Cloves ,EC D,uo ' d ° ublc I ' do ' !
Cocoa pr. cwt. n 6; Havannah, white 17 iM,
Coffee pr.lb. 18 ,q Ditto, brown, >5.
Coal pr. butoel 20 —Muscovado, pr. twt 13 15 &7 ,
Copperas pr. cwt. j 6" pr. g»H(Sn 33 37
Cordage, American, per cwt. 767 8 s »»t. Allum pr. bulhel 24
Cotton pr.lb. 26 4 c L.verpool 29
Currants n Cadia 23
Lisbon 25 2 /
Duck, Ruflia, pr. pieco 11 33 Ship build. W. O. frames p. ton, 12 13 33
- Ravens 893 967 Ditto Live Oak, 15 33 16 67
Dutch fail duck, 18 ao Ditto red cedar, per foot 33 4°
feathers pr. lb- 40 44 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 233 267
Flax ditto 11 i * 2 feet, 5 33 6
Tlaxfeed pr. bufli. 85 9 Ditto 3 f*et, drefled, 12 43 33
Tlour, Superfine pr. barrel tg Staves, Pipe pr. 1000 29
Common, 4 8 White Oak hogshead, 19 33
Bur middlings, bef% 3 jc Red Oak do. 1.9 5°
Meal, Indian 2 5 0 Leogan 2.1 33
ditto Rye, a 4c Barrel 10
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. 1 Heading 26 67
Fustic pr. ton, £0 >kins, Otter, best pr. piece 467
G.n, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 6- ~ '"' nks 20 f n
Do. pr. gall. 8- Fox, grey 40 80
r* 1 0 Ditro red 1 20
<'|ue, pr. cwt. 2« 21 q TV
Ginger, white race, per cwt. 7 ?/ tinS 1 c
Ditto, common n Fiflier.* 23 7
Ditto, ground pr.lb. f Bears 3
20 Racoons 27 to
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.caik, 371 4 Musk-rats 11
Ditto, fine glazed 4 Beaver, pr. lb. 67 133
Grain, Wheat pr. bush 93 gr Deei, in hair 20 30
—Rye Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 1
• ■ Oats 26 Carolina, 32 gall. t 33 1 67
-Indian corn Turpentine pr. bbi. l 67 2
Barley gc Tobacco, J. River, best ioolb. 360 373
• Best (helled pr. lb. c inferior 2 67 3
Buckwheat, per bulh. 4 r » old 4 67
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, i«o t 4 6 6; Rappahannock . ,50 3
American, pr. lb. 4 4 i Coloured Maryland, 533 8
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 " P ark ', , » 4°
Hides,%aw pr.lb, 9 ~ 2 4 °
Ho r y Eaftern-lhore 2 a ?3
Hogshead hoops, pr. M. 1 , 5 Carolina, new 3 7 3
Indigo, French per lb. 1 20 13 Tea, Hyson pr.lb. 93 1 28
• Carolina 60 t Hyson Ik.n, 53 67
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 3 Souchong, 50 93
Iron, Callings pr. ewt. 3 4; Congo, 43 50
Bar pr. ton, 82 6 Bohea, 31 33
Pl 5 s 4 Tallow, refined, per bl. 9
st,cet '73 3.'; I*in pr. box, 13 33 >3 67
. Nail rods 96
Jank, pr. cwt. 4 5
Verdigreafe pr.lb. 47 53
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9 ic Vermillion, do. 133 lb 7
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 5 33 5 per gallon 33 37
in bars 7 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 10667 200
white 10 io 67 Lisbon 120 126
,c d 6 40 6 6 Tenei iffe, pr. gallon 63
Leather, foal, pr.lb. 17 2 c Fayal 52
Lignum vits pr. ton, 6° 6 Port pr. pipe 110 124
Logwood 24 Ditto in bottles, pr.doz. 4
Mace pr. lb. - 33 7 6- Claret 4 6
Mackare!, best pr.bbl. ' 9 Sherry pr.gall. 90 120
fccond quality 6 67 * Malaga 77 80
Madder, best pr. lb. 16 2C Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 27
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 133 2 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
Mast spars ditto T? 6: *—*
Molasses pr.gall. 44 5 c COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Mustard per. lb. 8;. ° n London, at 30 days, per ioo£ . fterl. 453 33
flour, in bottles, pr.doz. 1 2c at todays 45°
Nails, Sd. \od.\id. and 2od. pr.lb. ic . ,1 \3t -u
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 * mftcrd: " r -- 6 ° days, pr. guilder, 4°
' 9° days, 39
Oil, Lin feed, pr. gall. 65 67 Government bills, drawn at 10
° livc - 8-/ days, per 11 guilders, none at market.
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
Wednesday, August 8, 1792. [Whole No. 452.]
77
Or\ tin ufti that max be made of Coutchouc*
Guvty or Indian Rubber, in Arts and Manufactures,'
an account of the manner of obtaining and md
nujacluring it.
(concluded.)
6th. A F.ROSTATION is now nearly at a stand ;
xa. but it is wonderful rjo one ever per
ceived the use that might have been made of this
substance for that purpose. No kind of silk, or
other light substance could ever be found, that pot
fetfed the fmaileft degree of elasticity ; by confe r
quence, when they afcendcd into thp higher Re
gions, the expanfioa of the gas was in danger of
buifting the globe ; it was therefore neceffarv t<j>
leave it open below to guard against that accident.
A globe of coutchouc would have polfeffcd the
quality here wanted ; it would have expanded as
the circumstances of ih? cafe required ; and while
it was perfe&ly to prevent the involuntary
escape of the fmaileft quantity, it would have adapt
ed itfelf in size to every variation of circumstances.
It is true, the retentive power of this substance,
when very thin, has nevei y>et been afcertaiijed by
experience ; but there is reason to believe it ii ve»
rv great. '
7th. As this substance is inflamable, and burns
with a bright/lame withoyt requiring ?ny wick,
it might be employed perhaps with great economy
as torches or flambeaux. Solid balls have also been
made of it, that are light, and of an amazing de
gree of elasticity ; but what ufeful purpose could
be made of these, does not at present appear It
might also be moulded into the foipi of riding
whips, and would probably answer that purpose
admirably well ; and after they wefe wore oy.t,
they might be employed a« torches.
,Bth. As a material for chiryrgicpl purpofos, it
might be employed on occasions. Catheters (
have already been made of it, after having been
dissolved in aether, that have been found to answer
the purpose wanted, and to occasion irlueh less ir
ritation in the parts than those of wiy other fort
that have yet been tried ; but the great price, \yben
thjus manufafturcd, prevents them from cowling
into general use. The little bottles, when applied
to the breads of women distressed with fore nip-r
pies, can be so managed,.as to occa&on a more
gentle fufliou than fatf be any other \v?y,
and have therefore afforded v.eiy great relief. In
ftiort, the variety of uses to which they might be
applied, as bags for in jewing or 4or fucking", are
too numerous, to adm.ut of being there so much as
pointed at.
9th. Elajlic springs. In all cases where a fp,ring
is wanted to att by us contrflflijc power, no sub
stance can be conceived niore proper, than that of
which we now speak, especially in coid climates ;
and there are innumerable cases in which it might
be employed in this tnanner with the happjelt
effect, in various kinds of machinery.
10th. It is many years since Dr. Bcrgius at
Stockholm, made some experiment# on this sub
stance in Pa pita's digester : By fubje&ing ij in that
way to an intense degree of heat, it is said to have
beeaconvcitcd into a hard, eUftic, horn-ljke fub
ftrnce. I have not heard that these experiments
have been repeated ; but if upon farther trial, this'
fhajl be found to be invariably thercCult, it would!
extend the utility of this substance, far beyond the
limits we have hitherto thought of; but in the
state of uncertainty that at present prevails on that
head, it would be improper so fay more.
I might go on at this rate for many pages toge
ther, pointi/ig out varjpus other uses to which it
might be applied ; but J (hall content myfelf with
fpecifying one other only.
Geographical globes are at present an article of
ex pence, jMpecjalJy when of such a as to
admit of exhibiting a tolerable view of the earth'*
furfact. These could be ijiade of coutchouc of a-ny
size required, at a very moderate ex pence. The
favagesot America whom cuir philosophers repre
sent as destitute of every fTventaJ endow ment, will
teach us the way of proceeding.
Thd little bottles we import fropi thencc„ arc
formed upon m®ulds of clay dried in the fun.
When the coutchouc has hardened on the furfacc
bv the process already <Jefcri.be(d, a little water is
introduced at the mouth of the bottjc, which gra
dually foftens the clay, and in time allows it to be
wafticd entirely out of it. A globe of clay might
be eafiJy moulded of any dimensions required,
leaving at one of the pplej a small protuberance for
a little neck. Tbis ball, when dry, might be co
vered wiih coutchouc till it acquired the thickness
required ; and lor the purpose here wanted, this
might be very thin. The clay miglut tiien be
washed out, so as to leave it empty. The re
mainder of the proccfs might be here defenbed.
were I not afraid of encroaching too much on the
patience of the reader.
It now only remains, I should give the reader
some notices concerning the uec U>at produces
this singular substance.
In no one instance that I knpw has the inatten
tion of mankind to ufeful improvements been
more conspicuous, than with reipedt to the object
of our present dilcuflion. It is not inudh lels than
sixty yeais since Mr. <le li Condamine firft jnnde
known to Europeans t,his lingular fubftauce, which
poflt*ff< s qualities that obviously render it one of
the mod uleful bodies that hath evei come to the
knowledge of man tor many important purposes
in life ; yet the culture of the plant which affords
it, has been, till this moment, entirely negleded
by every European nation ; nor do I believe, that
ever a Tingle feed of it was planted by one person
in the univcrfe.
Tbe tree which yields this juice is large and
(lately. Its trunk is uiually about 60 feet in
heigh, and from two to three feet diameter. It
grovs naturally in Brazil, in French Guiana, and
m Cceral other provinces of South America, and
alfou China, as it is fupjwfcd. It is called by
the natives liebea 4 mid Mr. A'lVrt has preserved
"that name. He calls h Hevta Qnvrnifis. It is iiie
Pao Seringa, act. Paris, an. 17&U faTr»f)f*z Jriia
terpatis clhpficis integfrfimiffybtiis c/i-ni\ pftio-
Utis. Lin,—The form of its and botanical
charafleriftirs, will be veil underftooc 5 by the
; plate. Its feed is a nut, o c a pleating tane, veVv
! much resembling thatot a filbert, afifl ttiucb ettdefr)-
ed by the natives. The fee grows very freely,
?nd might doub l l { (V be eafijy reared, wsrc ieejds
brought higher for that purpofr, either in fame of
the focxy parts of our Weft-India islands, or the
Cape Verd lflands, or along the coafU of Africa,
where there arc such extensive tr?£ls of uninhabited
country Jaid waste by the depopulation tjhat ovr
deflru&tve trade in Haves occasions. What a dif
ference would there be in theftate of the inhabit
ants of that unhappy Country, were they to be
taught to cultivate the arts of pea.ee, and to .enrich
I thcmfelves by industrious labour, inftesd pi tharfs
I cruel wars fomented by our m.ifcrablc tr-ade in
Haves. Could this juice be had in abundancefo
near to Europe, it might He sent here in iVs fluid
state in clpfe cpfks or bottle®, so as to br here ma
nufa&ured for the purposes it were fitted to au
fwcr.
Several other trees in phofe regions afford jui
ccs approaching to the nature of the routchouc,
though differing it in certain refpe&s, which
might be applied to other uses in life ; but an ac
count of thtfe shall be reserved for another occa
iion. ~
[CIRCULAR.J
Philadelphia, 9<£ Augujl t « 7^2,
SIR,
BY the inclosed copy of the minutes of the pro
ceedings of a general .meeting of the citizens
of Philadelphia, you will perceive, that the citi
zens arc desirous to obtain information, 11 of tljc
sense of the people in the different parts of the
ftete, rcfpe&ing the chara&crs proper to be nomi
nated as Representatives inCongrcfs, and Electors
of a Prfficicnt and Vice-Prefid.tDt o f the Unitfjd
States; and th»t they have committed to us, the
tafkofendeavoringto coll?6lt.he materials, op which
I their judgment and choice, in this important bufi
| ness, may be fairly, independently, and fatisfac
torily cxercifcd.
We are folif.ito.us, fir, to difchargp fp Jipnorable
! and so faced a trgjl, with diligence and imparti-
I ality ; and, relying upon the assistance of every
virtuous and candid freeman, we believe it prac
ticable to accomplifb the pbjeft of our appoint
ment, wttbout exciting suspicion, or meriting re
proach.
The purpose of our appointment, indeed you
will readily observe, i« merely minifteiial, with
a view to collect necessary informajtion. We arc
not delegated to dejibera,te upon the fubjeft of the
eleflion ; to admit, or to rejes, the nanKS of the
Candidates; to declare the sense of the people ;
or to frame a Ticket : all that we are authorized
to do (all that we have undertaken, or mean to do,
on the pre(ent occ?.fion) is to obtain a Jjft of the
vari >us chara&ers,, whom the Citizens of every
denomination, and in evciypart of the ftate,deem
to be qualified for Representatives in Concrete,
and Ele&ors of a President and Vicc.-PreGxlent of
the United States : and to submit this lift,, with
out the influence of a fele&ion, or a comment, to
the deliberate consideration, and unbiaiTcd fuffrag
es of the People.
It is proper, however, at the fame time, to add,
that no anonymous communications will be no
ticed.
Petmit us, then, fir, to retjueft, tha.t you wijl,
as expeditioufly as you can, communicate, by let
ter addrefled to the Hon. Thomas M'Kean, £fq.
Chief Justice of Pennsylvania, the names of the
perfous.(particularly those in your neighbourhood)
who, according to your own opinion, and the o
pinions of the inhabitants of the county in which
you refidc, ought to be preferred at the enfuirig
eli.&ion of thirteen Representatives in Congrefs,ao4
fifteen E!(E}qts of a Present ajpd Vic?-Prefident <?f
the United States.
We are, Sir,
Your inoft obedient humble Servants.
THOMAS M'KEAN,
JAMES HUTCHINSON,
A. I. DALLAS,
JOHN BARCLAY,
HILARY BAKER,
JARED INGERSOLL.
To ,
of the county of .
({3" The Printers o: newspapers
the state, are requeftej to publish the above letter ;
and communications, upon the fubjett to which
it relates, will be welcome from every citizen of
Philadelphid and t.he federal counties.
A RECIPE FOR KILLING RATS.
In 1783* a premium of fivegunineas was giv
en by the Dublin Society for the following re
cipe to kill Rats.
Take r quart of oatmeal, 4 drops of oil of
I grain of miifk, 2 nuts ofnux vomi
ca powdered. Mix the whole together, and
place it where the rats frequent; continue to
do so while they eat it, and it will soon destroy
them, be they ever so numerous.
Time, fays a late French writer, isuniverfal
property —to make good use of it, is the firft of
all riches.
Even those who poilefs nothing, have an in
terest to fee property protected ; for visible
goods alone, such as money, furniture, houfei,
lands, Set. are not the only property—the love
of labor, induftrv, are alio filnds of which the
product is property; and this is perhaps th<?
moit valuable kind.ft
Foreign Affairs.
POLAND AND RUSSIJ.
DECREE OF the POLISH NATION.
rUBLISHKfr MAY 11.
AS the true basis of a permanent
Government consists in the com
mon care of all the citizens, directed
towards the general welfare, the da
mage and loss fullained in tonfequence
of that care, ought equally to be de
frayed by all ; so that the general
happiness of the country (hall form
the interest of each citizen, and the
welfare of each citizen the interest of
the whole community. Wishing thus
by the general tie of patriotic zeal,
for the common and mutual defence
of the country, to unire all the inha
bitants of the Polish State: We, the
King, with the coufent of the States
of the Diet, give the most folemti
guarantee, that in cafe of an invasion
of our frontiers by foreign troops,
t he devalhttion,and diminution of the
revenue, of the property of each in
dividual, the dil'pei (ton of the fanners
who are polfeiled of efferts, and the
loss fullained by the hostile burning
of cities and villages, wherever they
are fituaied, shall be indemnified by
a fraternal contribution of the whole
nation. For this end, after thecelfa
tiou of the war, there shall be ap
pointed and named, in the fir ft Diet
which fha!l be held, an extraordinary
commission for a just examination and
eflimate of the damage sustained.—
But teflifying this regard for good
citizens, we wish likewise to mark in
the strong ft manner, the difference
which exills between them, and the
degenerate sons of their country, and
therefore, for the present, determine,
that in cafe of an approaching war,
every native of Poland who shall be
convicted of a public crime according
to the articles of the law of Comitial
Judgments, or of an offence against
the law, entitled, Declaration with
refpetft to manifeftos, shall not only
be punished in his person according
to the sentence of the law, but shall
have his property confifcated to the
public Treasury, and there it shall be
preserved till the death of the crimi
nal, to form a compenfarion for the
damage above enumerated.
SCHLESTAT, May 8.
Meff'is. Marqueflac and Mahuet-Be
-tainvillier, Captains ; Corday and
Baifragon, Lieutenarits ; and Mante
lard, Subaltern, all of the iotli regi
ment of chafleurs now at Schleftat,
deferred last night, and have carried
the money entrusted to them for the
pay of the troops.
MUNICH, May 9-
The Elector of Bavaria has again
aflured M. d'Afligny, Minister Pleni
potentiary of France here, that it was
his invariable determination never to
deviate from a system of perfedt neu
trality.
NEUF-BRISACK, May 11.
The body of officers belonging to
the 15th regiment of infantry, is al
mo(f totally regenerating. Officer
foldiers, who carry their titles on the
point of their swords, have replaced
ihofe noblemen whole boast was fa
mily.
M. Poulet, colonel, and eleven of
his adherents, have deferred.
COLMAR, May 12.
A Picket of Auftrians, composed of
9 men,"wifl.o'H accident, crofled the
Rhine a few daysftnee ; they belong
ed to the regiment of Geinmingen.—
Several more deserters from that body
have joined our regiment of Sals*
Salm.
1 he sale of National property pro
— success : A lot
legal!)-valued a: 33,000 livre * actu
ally fold this day at upwards of
1 oo ; ooo livres.
VALENCIENNES, May 18.
The sword was this day taken by
Ivarflials Rochambeau and Lucknet
to Grenadier Pie, who received it at
the hofpita], where he lies ill of a fe
ver, a numerous deputation from the
whole army assisted at the ceremony.
T he grenadier having received the
1 word, held it up in viewefthofe
about him, and faid_« See what a
reward for good behaviour! my
friends ; we shall beinvincible if we
obey the orders of our officers, and
adhere to an exact and fevcre dilci
pline."
Though the officer who commanded
ttie "detachment at Bavey did not ad
here to his inftrutftions, his firm con
dutft and courage can but be admired.
To undertake to refilt with So inen
the aitack of 3000, is an example of
intrepidity which mult give an high
idea of French courage.
VIENNA, May 16.
Her Imperial Majesty, the Einprefs
Dowager of Germany, whose health
had been long declining, died yellrer
day between i2andl o'clock at noon.
FRANKFORT, May 27
By the last letters from Italy we
learn, that the Grand Duke of Tnf
cany has, on account of the present
war, declared all the ports in his
kingdom to be neutral.
PARIS, May 2t.
To give an idea of the excefles to
which the hotheads are capable of
running, who exhibit every day at
the Jacobin club, it is only neceirary
to peruse the journals of that society
of the 20th of May. It will there be
feeu, that M. Manuel, conviifted, not
of adding a wreath to the civic crown
of Mirabeau, but of laying hold of
Tome of the inanufcripis of that great
man,which belonged only to his heirs,
has endeavored to divert the public
attention by the most serious denun
ciations. What he said at the Jaco
bins on the 17th of May, follows:
" We still want men of tbei4Jh of
July.—True we have enemies on the
frontiers ; but the nioft dangerous are
in the midst ps Paris; and perhaps
the tribunals wiflito effeC't a counter
revolution, and begin to follow she
footfteps of the tribunals of inquifi-
tion
" Is it possible that the woman, who
can mod injure us by her character,
her influence and intrigue, is not in
sulated during the war. She iliotild
withdraw to the Val de Grace : there
(he would enjoy chat protection which
is refufed to no citizen. It is tijne to
repeat in this society those important
truths, which, in the brighter days,
formed the spring of their aiTuqps."
That is, that this man has beien so
bold as to propose to separate' the
Queen from her hnlband ; and this
!iicredible piece of advice wag ap
>lauded ; —Quoufqus tandem.. ..,
Extratf of a litter from Rome, of the 2ci
r nr
of May
" At an early hour yeftertlay morn
ing, St. Peter's church was crowded
iwith a general concourse of all the
Frenchmen of diftincfHon now in this
city. The occasion was the pompons
ceremony of the inauguration of the
Abbe Maury, appointed Nuncioextra
ordinary to the Diet for the election
of an Emperor. The Princefles $oyal
of France were also present at the ce
remony ; so that a fpedfcator would
have fancied himfelf in the Kjng's
chapel at Versailles. His Eminence
Monfeigneur Zelanda, fecreiary of
state, consecrated the new Archbishop
of Thebes. After the ceremony, he
received several presents from the
French Princefles, and a magnificent
Rochet from Cardinal Zelanda."
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
May 19.
This day a Juflice of the Peace for
the quarter of Henry IV. named La
riviere, was brought before the bar of
the Afl'embly, for breach of the privi
lege ofthree members, MeU'rs.Chabor,
Bazyre and Merlin.
The sentiments of the AlTembly
were much divided on the occasion,
and violent and tumultuous debates
took place, which ended in absolute
disorder.
It appears that Carra, in his paper,
had announced a plan for carrying
off the King, and had spoken of it as
a certainty ; he in it invited clubs to
meet daily ; and endeavored to per
iuade the citizens to found the alarm
and fly to arms. The Justice, in the
line of Ins duty, iflued a capias again ft
Carra. to learn his proofs of this hor
rid confpiration. Carra said he had
bis proofs from MeflVs. Chabot, Bazyrc
«*ric Merlin. It then, he conceived,
was his duty to examine these ge.ile
mew ; and firft made a conftitutiknal
application ro the AlTembly to this ef
teft, who decreed to pas* to the older
78
of the day, declaring that the course
of justice should not be stopped.—
They had accordingly been- brought
before the justice by a capias and ex
amined. This was termed a breach
of privilege, and the julVice finally
ordered to be sent to Orleans to (land
his trial.
May 20
This day the decree which fends
Justice I.ariviere to Orleans, was final
ly parted.
The committee of jnfpedion from
whom the proofs of the exigence of
an Auftrinn committee were said to
come, were called upon for thole
proofs, and Mr. BriUot, one of its
members, promised them in 3 days.
May 26
Two letters were received from the
winifter of war ; one gave a Jill of the
names of the officers of Royal Alle
tiiand, Bercliiny and Sase, who had
deferied* and the other was cxprefled
in'the following terms :,
" Moniieur I.e l'refident,
" I this morning: received dispatch.
es from M. de la Fayette. 1 hasten
to communicate them to yot). The
National Aflembly will perceive, with
pleasure, that the French soldiers have
acquitted themselves with cotirage,
ljotwithftanding wh3t their detrac
tors are pleased continually to fay
againd them.
" 1 am, &c
(Signed)
The letter enclosed a letter from
M. d« la Fayette, containing an ac
count of the action at Florennes.—
M. de la Fayette dates the number of
the enemy to have been double that
of the French ; that within two hours
after the atftion, the French were in
'pofleffion of the field of battle ; and
concludes—
" I cannot pay too high encomiums
to M. de GouVion, Crillon, Lalle
mande, Defrttottes, De Gatile, Ga-'
zotte, "Vicftor de la Tour-Meubourg,
Blandeau, Chatnpelloa, De Malcourt,
and our other officers, subalterns, and
soldiers. For five hours that the ac
tion laded, not one 7iian quitted the
ranks; they prefervecl silence, cool
ness, and all the courage of the mod
experienced soldiers.
" I have r/sinforced thedetachment
of M. Gouvion—The enemy have not
appeared again.
I have the honor to be, &c.
(Signed) "LA FAYETTE.
" P. S. We had 24 killed, of whom
tliree are officers; and 93 wounded,
of whom five are officers."
May 28.
The fitting of this morning com
menced with another account of the
action at Florennes, agreeing in all its
circumflances, and equally honorable
to the soldiers with that given by M.
de la Fayette.
LONDON, June 2.
At the Court of St. James's die ill
of Jnne, 1792.
Present, the King's most Excellent
Majefly in Council.
I his clay the Right Honorable the
Lord Mayor, the Aldermen, Sheriffs,
and Common Council of the city of
London, waited upon his Majesty
(being introduced by the Marquis of
Salisbury, Lord Chamberlain of his
Majefly's household) with the follow
ing address, which was read by Sir
John William Rose, t the Recorder.
To the King's mcfl Exctlluit Majefly.
The humble Address of the Lord
Mayor, Aldermen, and Commons of
the city of London, in common Coun
cil aflembled.
Aloft Gracious Sovereign,
We, your Majesty's mod: dutiful
and loyal fubjefts, the Lord Mayor,
Aldermen, and Commons of the City
of London, in Common Council af
teinbled, molt humbly beleech your
Majesty to accept our grateful thanks
lor the wisdom and benevolence e
vinced by your Royal proclamation
tor luppreiling those leditious pub
lications and criminal corresponden
cies, which may be produifiive of the
molt alarming and dangerous confe
quenccs.
"i our faithful citizens venerate the
'onllitution of this kingdom, asefla
blifhed by ihe glorious revolution,
and improved on fuhfequent occafi
°" s , because ir connects the honor of
the Sovereign with the liberry and
happinef* of the fuhjert ; and their
attachment is entreated from the
confideraiion, that it contains the Pa
tural and regular means of ad*ai.cin
thofe objetfs with the change oftio,
and improvement of circuu)ftaiu Cs S
We ti uit that the reft of jour ]\j a
jefty's fubjerts, enjoying Mich ns tj J
molt abundant national liappinefsan'd
prosperity under your Majelty' s n ',il,|
and auspicious government, will a]f„
with us duly tfti mate the value'Jf
those bleflings, and unite in the fi rin .
e(t fupport'of ; your Majefly?j eud".'
voni-8 10 continue them, bj preCei v
ing our excellent coultinuioii t h>m
the dangers of speculative and j w .
practicable theory. ,
To which address his Mnjefly was
plea fed to return the following
gracious aiifwer :
I receive, with the gveateft fttisfac
tion, this nisi k of your attachment
to me, and to the government and
conliitution of the kingdom, as by
law eftablilhed ; and my loi 1 city
of London may always be alfcred of
receiving from me every mark of at
tention and regard.
°
They were all received very gra
ciouily, and had the honor to kiss his
Majelly's hand.
The king has been pleased toap
point William Lindfay, Efq, to be
his majesty's secretary of embaliy to
the Moll Chriltian King.
" SERVANS."
M. Bulgakow delivered on the ißch
May, to the Diet of the Republic of
Poland, a declaration againltthe new
constitution by the Empreiiofftullia;
it is very long, and slates thereaiuns
why Ihe is forced to oppose berfelf
to this Constitution by the arms which
[God and nature have put into her
hands.
We have also the very wife and vi
gorous measures taken by the Diet
for the defence of their liberties.
Thus war commences alio by the
def'pots of Europe agaiuft the Polifli
people, whose Revolution and Liber
ty have been accompliftied not only
without b'toodfhed, but with a molt
sacred regard to every private right,
and even to every ancient prejudice!
On Sunday the Lord Chancellor,
and the Speaker of the Houle of Com
mons, with 216 members of both
Houses of Parliament, brought up
the Address of the Lords Spiritual
and Temporal, and commons in Par
liament afleinbled, on the late pro
clamation for preventing seditious
writings, which the King, attended
on the throne by the Prince of Wales,
and Duke of York, received graci
ously.
On Sunday the Lord Chancellor
had an interview with the king, at
St. James's, after presenting the ad
dress.
The proclamation tells us, that in
cafe any of the citizens fnould fgfpetS
their neighbours of being seditiously
disposed, or of taking nieafures to
excite sedition, they shall give infor
mation to one of his Majelty's prin
ciple Secretary's ofSrate ; — bur if we
ihould have good cause for fulpeiXing
ihe Secretaries of State themfelvf,
to whom are we to give the informa-
tioii !
Yesterday a protest againfl the ad
dress on the late Proclamation, this
day presented to his Majelty, was en
tered on the Journals of the Houfeof
Lords, by Lord Lauderdale.
The war with France is the cause
of much more appi ehenfioii ill Ger
many than the h ruffe Is Gazette would
give reason to believe.
The following articles contain the
molt recent advices of the motions
Brandenburg, May 22. It is certain
that the Ruffian Ambalfador at War
saw lias delivered a declaration 0
notice concerning it.
Weflphalia, May 18. All the Prus
sian troops here are to march on 11
4th of June.
Prague, May 16. The marching 0
the Bohemia gi'enadiers is count
manded, on account, it is thong l ')
1 olifii affairs
War/aw, May 19. As the
if Rufiia on this kingdom is no
rer doubtful, the greareft prep a ,
3>is are making for pur defence,
patriotic sifts are every nvomen
riving from all parts of tbe king"
Signed by order ofCoiir
WILLIAM Ktx.
of Rulfia ami Pruflia'Ferthe GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES,
Elctfion for Representatives in Coagrcfs
7 TNDER this head was mentioned in a former
paper, the good etlcCts wmca had resulted to
the United States from the general government,
and generally, the views ot the party ojpoied 10 it
and us measures is now pfupoted to. mention
foine of their particular objects and deligns.
Some of the Hate governments have always been
contesting with the general government, lor the
oxercile ot its jujl and nccejjar.y powers, and a cry
is raited agaiuii certain mealuies of the latter, in
oider to prejudice the puolic nund.
The tree, tio.wever, is known by its fruit-r-and
the country being in the molt piolpeious and Hap
py fuuatiou ever known, why Ihould we hazard a
cnange of meafuies? But, lay the partiza is who
wish to getiuto power, or to put in their frieuds,
" the a6t coucennng the du ies 011 (pints
within the United Spates, is conudered san exciie,
and is difagrecdble to tne people, aud therefore
mult be repealed."
Perhaps there never was a tax or duty yet laid,
that wa> not in some degree c >mplained pi ; and
Jience the inference ; that tins law has been com
plained of by a jew inter cjlzd peop/i ) in Pennfyivauia
and elsewhere, is well known, ami this is laid lioid
of to fei ve electioneering pUrposes; "but that the
duty in question is more odious to the great body oj
the people, than any other would be tiiat has uetn
propoled, is at lealtvery doubtful.
But it ought alio to oe known, tiiat the ver >
leaden of the party who would join in a repeal ol
what is callod the excifc, piopole in lieu ol it, a
direil tax on landed or real ejlutcs, and the people
will determin; wmcn they w <uld preler.
it isalfo said that tne aifurnption of the state
debts w .l nripole an uuoqual burthen. As to this
point, it is very uncertain wactlier any lurther al
(umption will take piace ; but admitting the tatt
was true a> luted, the pe»luiis wljo make the afTer-
n.vc bur liitfc mjerit : lor under exiftmg cir
cur,iiljnc s, it is btu ni other words, that a
ct cun portion ot tnc public debt ,coiuratted tor
th*f .vi;ioi tot the late war, Ihould not be paid.
O .cr «iie ot Heaven's fir ft iaws, and is fia
ccr.eiy a Ihid for by every good man on earth;
aud ami li individuals may mflune the minds
ol the citizens tor the moment, it is believed thdt
whtn there is uine to rctlett, ihcy will judge and
aU i t-ivor o; good government, and in concert
witii tiofe men who were molt mitrumcnial in us
cftauiilhnieii'
fOR THE GAZr.TTL 01 Hit UNITED STATES.
To the p U BLIC.
A Writer in the Gazette oj the United States of
aTIL last Saturday, signed 44 An American,"j
has attempted to calumniate the reputation of;
the Secretary of State (during his absence in i
Virginia) byTeveral malicioti; fallhoods and in
sinuations, which it is in my power to contra
dict. To obviate the improper impreJiions;
which it is the oojeftoftiiat publication tomake,!
as far as refpefti any iuppoled connexion with,
the National Gazette, the following Affidavit is
publiQied. Twe motives that this writer, or his j
party have in view in propagating calumnies at!
this time, need no explanation; tney are i'uiu-j
cieatly obvious.
Perjonally appeared befo r e me-, Matthew Clark Con,
Mayor oj the Uly of Philadelphia—Philip Fiencau,
oj the City ej Philadelphia, who being duly J,worn, doth
depose ard'fiy, That no negociation was ever opened
with him by Thomas Jeff, 1 lon, Secretary oj State,Jo?
(he e/iablijhin'ent or injtitution oj the National Gazi.-ue:
that the deponent's coming to the Lity of Philadelphia,
*s publisher of a Newjpaper, wis at no time urged,
eilvifed, or injlutnad by the above ojficer, but tnat it was
his own voluntary ail; and that the fxi' Gazettes nor
the Editor thereof, was ever either directed, confronted,
or attempted to be mjluenced, in any manner, either by
the Secretary oj State, or any of his Jrieuds; nor was
line ever, directly or indirectly, written, dictated, or
cvmpofedJ or it by that officer, but that the Editor has
tonfulted his own judgment alone in the conducting oj
tf —free —unjettered—and uninjluenced
PHILIP fRENEAU.
&u'orn the-Sth Augujl, 1792 ,bejore
MATTHEW CLARKSON, Mayor.
The foregoing "was thought neceiTary to jus
tify tiie Secretary of State from falfe imputa
tions refpedting a supposed patronizing or influ
encing t.ie National Gazette. As to what more
particularly concerns myfelf, 1 ih.lljuftmention
piiefly, that the clerkihip of foreign languages
U not anew eftablilhment in the department* of
State, but has always been occupied by fomj
person in another fixed line of bulinels—as, for
inltance, Mr. John Pintard, of New-York, who
held it for years ; the faiary (two hundred and
fitty dollars per annum) being of itfelf inade
quate to the maintenance of any man, that is
capable of performing the duties of the office,
and who should make his sole dependance there
upon.
... But, I would ask, why is tlie Editor of a
Newspaper difqualiiied in a greater decree than
a perion in any otlier line of bulinefs,from hold
ing the above place under the department of
State -or, what pollible reai'on can be given
why the Secretary of State fliould be laid under
tne neceliity cf translating, any more than the
Secretary of the Treai'ury-fhould be obliged to
L"' or n i -y laborious duty in his owrt office ?—
The ablurdity is too great to bear examination.
An artful design to mislead, could only have
tnat the political complexion of-the'
Natipnal Gazdte is at all influenced by the triflin"
1 alary in question—or could have held up an
»dea, that if the salary did not exist, the princi
ples of the Gazette would be in any refpeft dif
ferent from what they are.
The " American," in the performance al
lucled to, sets out with an affected ferioufiiefs of
allertion, that it was necellary the whole truth
fliould be told. It is now left to the public to
determine whether the whole is not a lie ?
_ PHILIP FR.ENEAU,
ZtliiQT of the Mattenal Gazette,
Philadelphia, Aug. 8.
AbjlraS of European intelligence, by the Packet.
On the 12th May his Excellency the v Minifter
Plenipotentiary of France at the Court of Lon
don, delivered an o.licijil note to Lord Gran
ville, Secretary 0 f State—Hating the reasons
wmca has induced the King of the French to
dec are war, and expreflmg that the iJritilh
government will lee iti lacohceftibin justice and:
njceility—and, « persuaded that his Britannic
*. l J elt y_de(ires not less ardently than hinifelf to
lee t.le States conf'olidated and confirmed, tlip
King requires, tiiat conformably to the third
articcot the treaty of navigation and commerce
0 V l _ S "'P t '786 —his Britannic Maiefty
would n[ue to all the fiiujeft; of Great-Britain 1
an cxprels prohibition of exerdfmg against,
rrancc, or against flinch vessels, any hcltilitv
at lea, and of taking Out any commilfiou or let
ters ol repi-ifal from the different States orj
; rinccs who are or may be atwarwitliFranc'e.";
Xu consequence of this application the King.
0 _, ', 'tain illued a proclamation 011 the,
■ 5-i ' a> -ftri&ly forbidding all his fubjetts
,om receiving any commiUion for arming and
'V, ' u !ea as privateers, or letters of repri
j tfum any enemy of the moftChriftian King.'
. ~C r n ir quencs ot ' tile proclamation iflued a
gamlt (editions writings by the Britifli Execu
tive on the 2 [ft May—the Minister of France
at the Court of London, lent an official note on
the 2 4tii of the fame month, to the British Se
cretary of State— which contains the following
°°frvations : u Tne roval proclamation puh _
11 onjthe 2 Ift of the present month, and com
municated to the two houses of parliament, con
tains some expressions, which appear (no doubt,
contrary to the intentions of the BritiHiminif
t'.v to give credit to the erroneous opiflions*
which the enemies of France strive to "propa
gate, relative to the intentionsofGreat-Eritain.
II individuals of this kingdom have enter
ed into a foreign correspondence, tending to ex
cite tioubl&s; and if. as the proclamation seems
lo lnlinuate, some Frenchmen have joined into
tneir views, this is a circumstance unconnected
witii the French nation, the legislative body,
til .- King and his ministers ; it is a fact entirely
unknown to them, entirely repugnant to all the
Principles of justice, and which, 011 being ITiewn,
will bs universally condemned throughout
France.
A new system of military regulations for his
army has been published by M. Fayette—feveral
ot the articles are (evere. Whoever within
reach of the army breaks iilence is to be put
i:i iron for fix years—marauding is to be severe
ly puniflied, also harsh treatment of prisoners.
Death is the punifiimentof any soldier who cries
out, we ate cut ojf, we are betrayed 9 or any thing
similar. No man in command is to be question
ed for a&s of icverity which are neceilary in an
engagement. Officers are fubjeft to double
puilhinent for any fault they neglect to repress,
or ariy act of disobedience to which they give
way. The Camp of M. de la Favette, it is said
favors very little of the pristine 'dehcatejje of the
French armies—every oificer being obliged to
.follow the example of the general,by being night
and day in the camp.
The Hessian troops on the Rhine form a Cor
don of 15,000 men, and are on the war efta
blilhment.
Baron de Golt, Minister of Prussia, with the
Austrian and Ruiiian charges des alfaires were
to leave Paris about the last of May, it was said
without taking leave.
The King of the French has dire&ed prose
cutions to be commenced against the inflam
matory writers in Paris.
Patriotic gifts continue to pour in from all|
quarters. The author of the paper entitled
I'Ami du Rot, M. Royou, died the 2Dtii May.
The publillier of the paper entitled I'Amidu peu
/'/t*, remains invisible ; his highly inflammatory
writings continue to dilturb the metropolis.
The Duke ot Deux PontS, a German Prince,
appears determined to preserve a ftrift neu
trality. Numbers of the Regiment Roval Alle
mand Huilars, of Berchiny, who had deserted,
return daily.
Monsieur Bourgoing has been received at the
Court of Madiidas French-Minister; this is
conlidered as equivalent to a formal recognition
ot the new constitution on the part of Spain.
The funeral ceremony of the unfortunate vic
tims of the firft defeats of the French troops,
has been celebrated at Lille, at the public ex
pence, in the Church St. Etienne. The Em
l>refs of Russia has publiflicd a manifesto in the
Ruffian Polish and French languages; this was
delivered to the Polilh Diet on the 18th May,
in which (he declares her determination to take
part with those opposed to the revolution of that
kingdom, to endeavor by force to restore the
ancient constitution.
That she may be disappointed in her ambi
tious views is mod devoutly to be wiihed ; the
Poles do not appear di'poled to revert to theii
former state of vaifa;a ;e.
They have accordingly taken measures tol
defend their country—and have resolved by a'
public edit°c, that whoever futfers by the inroads
of the enemy fnali be indemnified by a fraternal
contribution of the whole nation.
The King of Spain has ordered eight vefTelsi
to be fitted out at the port of Cadiz for the pur
pose of exploring the coaits of the Spanilh pof-l
sessions, in order toenable them to form an atlas
for the benefit of navigation.
The English' papers contain accounts of a
number of skirmishes on the frontiers, between
the Auflrians and French, with various fuccels.
None of them appear to have any important
afpeft on the great objedt of the war.
Two persons, after being tried and found
guilty by the criminal tribunal of Paris, have
been executed for forging the Affignats.—A
Neapolitan frigate lately chafed two Algerire
velTels into the road ofCavalair, close to tie
French coast—this has occasioned a reprefenti
79
tion from the adminiftation of Toulon to the
National Aifembiy ; as the Algerin.e.s are under
the prote&ion <©f France —The property left
V che late Emperor of Germany, is eitimated
at 15 millions of florins,
A great riot happened in London, occasioned
j y a "umber of men ant* women servants Hav
ing met ac a public-houie in Mou'nt-iireet, to
make merry by a dance on the King's birtn-night.
Justice Hyde, with constable-, went to the
house and took up every lervant in it, and con
veyed them to the watoh-houie. The mob al
feinbled ttie next day and demanded their re
lease—this business was not got over without
l eading the riot act, and the interpolitioo of the
military; some perlons weie woiuided, and
many windows broken. Some Frenchmen who
( wece in the croud; hallooed, La irn, Cu ir'a.
The King of Prulha has difmifTed alf'the French
who had employments about his Court, especi
ally tliofe in his kitchen and larder.
It appears that very great fermentation has
prevailed in the National Alierribly of France,
occasioned principally by aifertions, that-an
Austrian club existed in Paris, who were deter
mined to carry oif the King; and, by a motion,
to diilolve the King's body of guards—this mo
tion, after a tumultuous deba e, was carried.
The guard was henceforward to be compoled
of national troops.
M. Brilfac, commandcr of the French King's
body guard, lately dilfolved, is in a state ofaccu
fation—the English papers fay the guard was
jdifbanded without consulting the King.—The
Cuftom-Houle at Seville, in Spaiu, was burnt
j down the 7th May, and property loit to the a
mount of 40,0001. —The neutrality of Great
| Britain in the present war 011 the continent,
which has been formally announced in the Na
tional AiT mbly gave great fatisfa&ion.—The
I peace and tranquility of the city of Paris being
perfe&ly restored, the National AUembly have
declared that a permanent fitting was no longer
necelfary, and have directed that the Mayor of
Paris discontinue his daily reports. —The sala
ries of the French Ministers are fettled by the
AfTembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs at
75,000 livres a year, about 3200 guineas—the
other Ministers at 50,060 livres.
A journal is npw publilhed in Paris, which
dates the late occurrences in that capital as hav
ing taken place atConftantinople.—On the i6tli
June, a squadron of four velTels failed from Lis
bon—a fliip and sloop of war, and two brigs.—
The Republic of Geneva is putting herfelf in a
posture of defence against what they cali the at
tacks of Freebooters.—M. d'Orleans intending
to repair to the army, and there join his two
Pons, has been induced to lay aside his intention
at the instance of the French Miniilers.—The
National Alfembly, on the 24th May, after much
debate, decreed as a measure of public fafety,
and of general police, the transportation of all
the nonjuring Clergy, under certain regulations.
—R.iots on various pretences have taken place
in several parts of England.
Monday last the Supreme Judicial Court of
the United States met at the new City-Hall, in
this city—prerent, the Chief Juftics and the
whole bench of AiTociate Judges—Business of
Sreat importance it is said is pending.
Letters by the Brjtilh Packet fay, that affairs
were going on well in F.ance, and that ex
change between England and that country was
fifing— which is a sure indication of the public
opinion being favorable to the cause of liberty
in that country. That Poland was actually in
vaded by Ruflia—That affairs in Ireland ap
peared to be drawing to an interesting crisis—
that the Catholics in that kingdom were now
demanding those rights and privileges which they
have heretofore prayed for.
I The late B°fton papers mention several par
ticulars as the rel'ult of examination, which
'render it highly probable that the project of a
[grand Canal from Connecticut River to Boston,
is practicable.
On Thnrfday morning was witnefied a very
melancholy event at Mr. Henry Ki-ser's powder
mill, in lower Merion townihip, Montgomery
county, between the hours oi" nine and ten
There was a large quantity of powder in the
mill, which by accident took fire, and blew up
with a great explosion, which was heard at
Schuylkill ferry, and was there supposed to be
an earthquake. Mr. Kizer, and three others,
.who were in the mill, were blown to pieces;
and a Mr. Henry Fraily, a co-partner of Mr.
Kizer, was so badly wounded that his life is
d-'fpaired of. A young woman, who happened
to be near the mill at the time it blew up, had
both her_ legs broken, and was otherwile very
much iujured, by one of the rafters, which was
carried from the building by the violence of the
explosion.
A Mod£l of a Wheel Carriage, with two
capital improvements, thought by judge? to me
rit tiie attention of the public, may be seen at
No. 97, Chefnut-ftreet.
Copy of a letter from James Mau*y, Esq. Con
sul of the United States at Liverpool, to the
Secretary of State, dated Bth May, 1792.
SIR,
I Revest you to have it made known that
no Tobacco-laden veilel whatever, under one
hundred and fifty tons regiltcr, can enter an
Irilh port without fu!.je£>, with cargo, to
confiication, even if only ton. iiing for orders
to a market. This is preciicly the predica
ment of the Defiance, Capt. Hatton, touching
at Cork the 26 th pait, lor the orders of the con
signee here, —undt*r seizure lor beir.g uiider
fire ; but I hope will be icon liberated. °
I have the honor to be, &c.
(Signed) JAMES MAUKY.
The Baltimore Daily Repolitory of the 4th
instant, fays—A gentleman of veracity, who
arrived there late last evening, from Foit-Pitt,
gives the following melancholy intelligence :—
That on Sunday last afaitMul Indian, that serv
ed under Gen. St. Clair, and was taken on tiie
4th of November !a(t, had arrived there—who
informed that ail the Commiflicun* (Mtpr
I Truman, Of this state, Col. ITafdift, aFKentuc
ky, and othersj sent out to invite the Inoiaus to
j treaty, were mallacred by tn£m that
geant and 12 men, employed in making hay, in
tnc neighborhood oi Fort-Jelieribn, were all cut
on—and that 2 light-lioifemen,-who were witn
them, barciy escaped into the feat.
That the light, of liberty may always Ihitie
with meridian IpJencior on tfreie fret; ftatec,
and that this light may enlighten every m;n
that cometh into the world" —is the Wifhofeve
jry friend to the human race—but, that tii:;
maybe realized, it is of indiJ]tensab;c neceiiity
that the minds ot' the people Jhoiikl be lviaoc
tranfparent toreceiye trte < elelft'al invigorating
rays—and this again ctepetieH on education—
li thel e are not adequate mcalimes adopted to
give the great body of the people a competent:
portion of knowledge, to enable them to unuer
ltand and prize the bieflings-of freedom ana £Ood
government, Liberty will hardly deicend to tl,e
third generation.
That must be an extraordinary government
indeed, whole measures, without any excepti
on, receive indiscriminate approbation —and
that must be an extraordinary epoch in the an
nals of mankind, which produces a race of men
who are perfectly fatisiied with the conduct of
those who are intrusted with the management
of their public affairs—But the grumblers have,
almost without limitation or exception, con
demned the administration of affairs-—They
it is true, of disapproving of Jotie of the mea
sures—but where are we to look for their ap
probation ?
The real friends of liberty, who are the
friends of tranquility and good order, could
point out many things in the government to
which they have serious cbje&ions—Few of the
me a Aires which receive their approbation on the
whole, are entirely to their mind—but as pa
triots and good citizens, they do not clamor a
gainst what they disapprove—Some thin- ; they
know will be corrected by time, experience,
and the good ienfe of the people—others trey
think will be found either impracticable or in
jurious—and will of neceflitv be altered or done
away.—lt may be therefore fairly inferred from
the different conduit of the two parties, that
while the latter are for submitting the opera
tions of the government to the tefl of experi
ence, the others are inceflantiy employed ill
attempts to bewilder the public mind with ideas
of their luperior patrioti/in, integrity and in
formation—to create suspicion and jealousy,
and to four the disposition of the people.—
Whereas, to judge from the pajl to the future,
and taking principles and charuilcr into the ac
count, there is not a person of candor and intel
ligence in the United States, who will fay th2t
the profpedls of our country would be brighten
ed, by a general change in the administration ;
for though it may be possible that there are better
men in the United States than tho.'e now em
ployed—it may not be l eceflary to fay that a
certain Junto are not the meii.
SHIP NEWS
ARRIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA,
Ship Thomas Wilson, White,
Brig Catharine, Heitnian,
LeTafge, N. Carolina (in diflrci's)
Diana, Caldwell, N.Yoik
Minerva, Morgan, Jamaiea
Sch'r Fair Amciican, Tiafty, N. York,
Snlcey, Chapman,
Sloop Polly, Griffin,
Ft iendfhip, Thomas,
Morning-Scar, WcJden,
Susannah, Hairis,
La Dcfiric, Gaudichcna, HiTpaniolji
Bctly, Pedan, St. Audcici
Isabella, Luce, Boston
Saily, Stevens, Ntw-Yoik.
Patrick Henry, Lindfay, Virginia
Industry, Looy, £gg-H>rb©ur
Polly, Kelccy, New-York
Captain Bragdon, of the Brig Friendlhip, ar
rived at Portland, Mairachufetts, informs, that
a cornpromife had taken place between the mular
toes ana wlmcs at Port-au-Prince previous to his
failing— ihat some (hips of war had arrived thrre
from the Cape to forward this business ; but that
the negroes still remained at odds with the whites,
arid that ihtre was no profj>c£t at prefect of their
being icconcilcd.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 29 f
3 per Cems, 12 / lo
Deterred, l3 f,
lull /hares Bank U. S. 48 per cent, prt-ui.
j fhtrts, 63
83" T. Vs. acknowledgement to X. Y. is received,
kkt for viat,l ojtoom is pojlponed till Saturday.
Sunday Schools.
THE society for the inflitution and support of
First-Day or Sunday Schools, in the cuy of
Philadelphia, and the diftri&s of Southwaik and
he Northern Liberties, having eftabhfiied two
fchrx'ls for hoys, under the care of Mr.John Poor
2nd' Mr. John ISarry. and one school for girls, un
der the care ot Mr. John Ely ; the Board of Vic
tors do hereby eanuitly solicit all their fellow
citizens, *ho cannot other wife avail rhtmfeives
ot educating those under their care, to fend them
to those schools, to rcccfve that inttiu&ion which
which is to necelTdry to qualify them for ulctul
nrfs in civil focietv.
Firmly pei fuaded of this great truth, that to
diffrmirate knowledge, is prt paring mankind for
virliie, ftcedom, and happiness ; the Boaid do
therefore also eaincftly request, that all their fel
low citizens w ho have experienced the ;id viinii' -rj
ot education, will use their influence wiih those
v.-.hose < ircuinllarices prevent. Uie inftrudtion of
thcirchildrcr., to lend them to those schools, „t
tliey may thereby derive the intended
by the society.
rhiiidelphia, $th Ju*y, 179 a,
er-
Halifax
Tobago
N. York
N. Carolina
Virginia
ditto«
St. J O Ii N (N. B.) July 20.
Late accounts from Shelburne, inform us,
that by means of the late fires which raged to a
great degree in the woods and country adjacent,
there hath been fifty Farm Houses consumed,
on Jordon River, and in the neighborhood of
Shelburne, together with Fences and crops of
Grain, &c.
ALBANY, July 30.
On Saturday last, arrived in this city, direct
ly from Scotland, NESBIT, Esq. a gen
tleman who coines warmly recommended by
the celebrated Dost. Robertfon, and several o
ther literary characters of eminence in that
country, as a Matter of the Science of Canaling,
from several years experience both in Holland
_and ia-S
The Prefklent of the northern inland L. N.
Company attended by Mr. Nefbit, and a com
mittee of Dire&ors, left this city, this morning,
0:1 a tour, to explore the river from Troy up
wards, for the purpofeof prosecuting the canals
with spirit the remaining part of the season,
and making preparations tor its more active
prpfecution in the ensuing year.
FREDERICK-TOWN, July 31.
Lxtrafl. of a Utter from Lieut. Price, to Capt. Car
bery, dated Old-Town. Inly i * 1702.
" Dear C apt ain,
" I have now fct down to perform my last
promise to you made at Middle town y which was
to acquaint you, from time, to time, how we
proceeded 011 our march.—l arrived here yef
terdav evening, with ninety-eight men out of
one hundred, in better health than could have
been expe&ed from the warmth of the season,
and great scarcity of water ; only lix complain,
and they are able to march on with, us.—Not a
drunken man since I left Hager's-Town—and
no complaints from the inhabitant", except an
o'd woman, and a noted scold, who fays one of
the men stole an apple from her.—Give me
leave to fay that there never marched before a
detachment of recruits that behaved better, or
perhaps so well.—l beg leave to mention to you
in a particular manner, the attention which the
noncommissioned officers paid to their duty.
We march from fifteen to twenty miles a day.
" It i; reported that Capt. Freeman, with
three men went out with a flag, and have never
since been heard of.
" P. S. You may inform any Officers march
ing to this Post, that they will be well supplied
with provision if they give timely notice."
N E W-Y ORK, August 2.
Yesterday arrived in this city, Irom Phila
delphia, with a number of workmen, and all
his engineers complete, Mr. Pierce, head work
man and chief engiueer of the United States
Manufacturing Society, on his way to the town
of Paterfon. He has chartered a veflel to
bring the remainder of the workmen from Phi
ladelphia.
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON, and other
Bookfcllers in Philadelphia,
AColleftion of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS ; felefted from differeni
Authors, and publilhed by Order of the Con.
vention holding the Doftrinc of the Salvation ol
alljMen, met in Philadelphia, Mar 25, 1791.
Price of a single book, bound, 3 Bthsofa Dollar,
with good allowance to those who take quantities
Au S uft 4- (eptf.)
TO BE SOLD,
(And poffeflion given immediately)
A Valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
l , cuntaln '"K 21 3 whereof 47 are wood,
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made ; the
cleared land is under good fence, and is well
adapted to graft, and there being lo much meadow,
a large ftoek may be raised : it is also natural to
wheat, and a proper attention to a well-kept flock,
Will much improve its quality, and be the mod
piohtable : it has a young orchard ol 200 apple
trees, a variety of peach and chenv trees, and a
arge garden. There are on the premises a hand
iome two llory stone house and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza; also, a good barn, with (labling
cow-house, granary, waggon.house, work.ftiop,
and fmoak-houfe. Tnefiiuation is high, pleasant,
and healthy, and affords some very agreeable pro
pcfts, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the mam road to New-York, about a mile and a
half from Princeton, New-jerfev, and 43 from
this city. Ihe title was examined and approved
V n <. w J S^ AC SN'OWDEN, Ju„.
fenucnant " be had ol P rf "
Also, to be Sold, and entered immediately,
. ; U ry Brck HOUSE and DAK E-HOLSF
in Arch-street, No. 23, 16 fe-ct two inches in front* '
and 102 fret in depth. Apply asjbove "'"""'I
.0
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY
•pHOMAS JAMES, WAX CHANDLER
London, and twenty perccn;. cl.eapcr
by Mr"',,OhH h N iS r d thC adj3Cent Slat ". rcue 'ved
"VTS's -r"
■ New-York, July 19, , , g2i
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
From September 1774, to March 1789;—
An authentic and OTjg!nai colle&ion of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c.
written during the l»te-war j
And ext R acts from die
SECRET JOURNALS.
(For particulars, Jee Propofuls at large.)
Subfci iptions are received by the principal
Book fellers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
New-Brunfwick Lottery
HIGHEST PRIZE, 2,903 DOLLARS.
r Public are hereby informed, that the
A drawing of the above Lottery is postponed
fill the third day of September next—at which
time, the Managers arc positively determined th£
drawing fliall commence, in Mr. Norman's Long
Room, in the City of New-Brunfwick.
Tickets are to be had at Samue! Ccoper's>
Ferry, where fortunate adventurers may receive
iheir prize-money ten days after drawing. A lift
of fortunate numbers will be published in the'
Gazette of the United St a t e s.
Circumstances unfoiefeen, and unfavorable
to Lotteries, have occasioned the neceflity of this
further postponement. The Re&or and Wardens
ask the afliftance of their episcopal and other,
triends, in supplying themselves with Tickets pre
v:ous to the above day—confident tbat no Lottery!
more favorable to adventurers has been offered to
the public—the dcduflion being only 125 per
cent, and not two blanks to a prize.
THE MANAGERS.
*** Letters directed to Peter Keenon,;
Poft-Maftcr, New-Brunfwick (post paid) will be'
immediately attended to.
New-Brunfwick, July 25, 1792,
Ebenezer Hazard,-
STOCK-BROKER,
HAS Removed his OFFICE to No. 128 north
Second-Street, where he continues to purchase
and fell on Commiflion, Certificates of debt of the
United, and Individual States, Bank Stock, Canal,
and Turnpike Shares, &c. &c. ;
I 83" Subfcriberstothe Universal Tontine who!
have not vet received their Certificates are delireJi
(o call for ihem.
July 18,
Stock Br-okers Office,
TNo. 4j , Great Dock-Greet, Niw-York,
HE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
wn^'c relyt ri ht PURCHASE and SALE OF
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to offer
his fcrv.cesto his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor h.m with their business, may depend upon!
having it tranfafted with the utrooft fidelity andl
dilpatch. 7 • |
Orders from Philadelphia, Bodon, or any other
part of tne United States will be ftriftly attend
ed to. '
May 2
WANTED, to go to Boston,
A JOURNEYMAN COPPERSMITH, at
j*- /"""„ wor . k > such « Tca-Kettlrs, Coffce
wt l ht C '~ ° Wag r" 3n<l confhnt tmploymfnt
,7'" bC '° 3 P " fon Wilh S°° d 'ecommenda
of "7eS? m2n would be ptcferrcd - En< J" irt
July 2,5
NEW TEAS.
|IMP£RIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG
Of the very r„ft quality, and la,eft importation
from Canton, „a New-York, by retail, at
No.
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets. I
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
R T to i he M Will '""d TeVmfnt ol
A ihe late Rev. Alexander Williamson
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thud'
day.the ...h ofOftober next,at Geo*c ¥ town
hnnd I 1 ce yca "' thc P urc hasers givin»'
the da.T Vh P at r ° 1 M C, i rity ' b " r from
the date-That valuable Seat of Land, in Monteo
mery county, called H*yes; the late dwe" fnl
plantation ol the dccealed, containing between fix
nd seven hundred acres, the greatest part oTwhich
fcp'Q) TiioMAs r ?n"vf 7 '' ( £xecutors -
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
mTn.d U cqu, ,; a dcfmcd , b V ;hofe who have ex-
Mill Hoilf*. k ?,n States. Ttie
oT.he m r :^7 o with J" Ir «"» ;
'he market house in r mJC ' a mile from
from the President'< fn or ®? t0 ™ n > one mile
veral hundred burtrels Cfhen ° f
fuflicient.the vear . . " nen —1 «e flreani it
and the fail m3v |, e ~,l!°f Urn four P a,r of stones,
[IS iirmecefTary to dwell on thT"ff 5 '° 3 ° 11
a filiation. c " on thc advantages of s uc h
;few hundred land a f C ° mmodatcd with a
if •!»« fhoald b7 an o b" e Q ad J° ,n,n ß theM! »-S<»«.
( e P3'n J '
[cp;wj
To he publiflud iy Subfcripticv,
the
OR, PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Oid
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(t.f.)
B. STODDERT.
80
JUST PUJIL IS HED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookfcller, at the Srorr-Honfe, in Second-Stieel
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VI of
ENCYCLOPEDIA
Or a Ditftionarv of Arts, Sciences,
and Miscellaneous Literature,
On a plan entirely new : By which the different
fc.cnces and arts aie digtßed into the form
Of diJUnft Treatifa or Syflcms.
This fj\th volume contains, among a v-arietv o!
jnfereftini; aitidts,
D'pp*f>c».<J!ft>il»Sio».<liviiig bell,art of drawing,
Dublin art of Dying, theory oflhe qatth and Mrrtl
qu.ikes, Edinburgh, cduf of £gyp>,
Syftero of elefiricily, hulury <>f England, engrav
ing rflaying, history of Jtthiopja, &c. &c. &C.
lllujlrtiti tvilh ttuenty.im» cfpptr plates.
, CONDITIONS.
T. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper, and
new type* (cast for the purpose in Philadelphia)
which will be occafionaily renewed befpre tbey
conrrafct a worn appearance.
H. The work may be had in volumes or half -volumes;
-it being proposed to deliver the volumes in
parts, at twenty fhillings(Pennfylvania currency)
each, in boards, or tor the whole five'
dollars, in boards. The volumes now finifhed
areto be paid for on delivery,and theprice of one
volume is to be paid in advance, and theprice
of each succeeding volume to be paid on de
livering the volume preceding it.
111. In the courfeof publication will be exhibit
ed above five hundred copper plates, elegantly
engraved in Philadelphia ; wJiich by far exceed
hi number those given in any other fcientific
dictionary. At the close of the publication will
be delivered, an eicgapt froniifpiece, the dedi
cation, prefacc, and proper title pages for the
different volumes.
*»* As ihc very great fxpence attending the
undertaking, makes punfiuality of payment in
dispensably ncccilTary, the pijbliflier flatters him
felf that the fubferibers will be perfe&ly fatisfied
with his adhering ftriftly to His original plan of
delivering the books only on receiving payment,
agreeable tctthe conditions of publication.
(eptS)
Subscriptions for the Encyclopedia,
Will continue to be received on the fame terms as
usual, till the firft of September, 1792, when the
price will be enoeafed. Tex Dollars to he
on subscription, bv those who have not fub
feribed before that time. I
Those who have fubferibrd, but not taken their
books before that time, will bf conlidercd as not
having fubferibed.
} As ihe fubfeription will probablv be clofe-i by
Chnftmas, fucli as chufe to be poOVflors of this
very valuable and important work, will do well
to come forv/ard in time, that thev may not be
disappointed. July e tf
(ep.tf)
general post-ofeice,
Fr. n . Philadelphia, July 7, 1702.
OR the information of Merchants and the Maf
lets or Commanders of vfffels, are publiflied
the following extracts from tlve La w for eftablilT,-
Poll-Offices and Post.Roads within the United
in Mlion to, it is enacted that there (hall be
'' f " rever >' ""teror Packet brought into
Untied States, or carried from one port there
'n to another by sea, in any private (hip or ve(Tel.
four ce„t sl ,f delivered at the place where the fame
l a " lv< -! a "d if directed to be delivered at any
Other place, w.th the addition of the like postage
ofr y t"il e :a" arcmadefubjeft '° the
In fcftion 12, " That no (hiporveffel, arriving
at any port with,,, the United States, where a posts
office .seftabl, bed, (hall be permuicd to report
make entry 0,-break bulk, till the master or com
mander (ball have delivered to the postmaster, all
h n d,r it d, ° any pcrfon or P ersons wi 'hin
the United States, which, under his cate or with n
oh brou S ht in suc h (hip or vessel,
conff l aS . are to theowne, o '
consignee : but whep a vessel (hall be bound to a-
KSrVhT' " that ' " Which mav emer >' h '
letters belonging to, or to be delivered at the said
maft° , e ,r try ' 1" " 0t be delivered to the post
master at the port of entry. And it (hall be the
eolleftor or other officer of the por
empowered to receive entries of (hips or veffcls'
uchT'* fron l-7 ery m3fter ° r COlnma nder of
n. rl 'L 0!/ ! ,' 2 " 03 "' or afr "matior„ purport
aforefakU' suCh iett " S ' -
[ e P3 w 1
fiich"Poftmafter to whom
foch lette.s may be delivered, (hall pay to the
maftcr, commander, or olh e r perfnn delivering
e fame, except the commanders ot foreign pack?
(ha'll h ""'I 0 ' CV ," y {UCH letttr ° r packet f and
ace T- eP u rfo " dr! '"" n S defame,
' Packed Specifying the nuihber of iet.e.s and
' and I f C " ame of lhe lhi P or vessel,
and the place from whcnce (he hit failed • ivhich
be , :'i,'h°f th " Wlth 3 -«'P [ f»' ™
to the JvTftm r q ; JaUCr V aCCOUn!s - transmitted
10 the Poftmafter-tencral, who fi ]ai l crcdit , ht
amount theieof to the pofin,after forwarding the
li lhs '4'h fefticn i s Fub
i.bed, And be u further That if a,.v
person, other than the Postmaster r, i I
thVn any r e "" leUCrS ' pack,;t or> P«ke?« "otner
than newspaper s , f or hire or reward or fh,l] K,
a ° nd - j >
fcneer. C,i ° r b.y lpccial mef-
\ TAB? FEs S ° LU BV THE ed 'tor,
A .he"B«t of rh Ce '. V ''" R T} GoM a <
vilue of Gold in n >11 C J States, (hewing the
a rhoufandt™S,""? C "T f ">"\One,„
ofCongrefs afcerLTn' ~7 a " orH, "S'he AO
ofGold. ' " gt Standard and Valm
Bank of theUnitedStatcs.
RESOLVED,
THAI an OHicc of Discount and Dc Do (\t |„
citablilhcd m .he C, !yo i
Virginia. * cor
_ RtSOLVLD,
Thai the »d u, c fd a y ln September nrx, be S n
pointed for .he EleS.ca of TMuecn Ulrt6tors
l Cafhler, for the- Olh« of D.fcounL and Bn> o f„
in the Cuy of Richmond. 1 '
By Order ot the President and Dire6or>.
JOHN K.EAN, Calh cr.
George-Town.
A rCumher of LOIS in every situation which
T^ m ' y «r J /' rC ?, ln 1 C " y ° f *«>»•»««»
win be offered for fair by the CommMfionen, o B
Monday the Bth day of October next. One fourth
part of the money to be paid down, the rcftdueii,
three equal annual payments, wuh yearly .msreft
on the whole principal unpaid.
JOHN M'GANTT, Citric
June 2, 1792,
books,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. A MERIC ANMUSEUM,fiom itscommencr-
Xi. mcnt in |a«uary 1787,t0 December 175.,
in ten vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered'
sixteen dollars.
This work, which is now condu&cd on an im
provt d planj containing the best pieces publilhtd
(or and against the proceedings ol government,
will be found to contain at lea ft as great a variety
of political, agricultural,and miscellaneous essays
as any ever published in America. Perhaps in no'
one work arc so many valuable documt nts refprft
ing the history of this country, collected together.
His Excellency the President of the United Statesj
has declared of it, that " a more ufeful J.trrarv
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one mare deserving of public encouragement."
The subscription is two dollars and a half per
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wilh to
be supplied with this work, are requested to give
commiflion to friends in the city to lubferibe for
and receive if Any of the back numbers
may be had in order to complete sets.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mis»
More's Essays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning,
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly marned Lady, Mrs. Cba
pone on command of Temper, Morc's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/5.
3. Snjith's of New-York, fromits JjrQ
fcuieioent to the year 1732. To which is annex
ed, a description of tiie country, withaiiioit
account of the inhabitants, their religious and
political state, and the constitution of the courts
of justice. Puce a dollar and a quarrer.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by Jainw Beat,
tie, l. l. d. profeffor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen— Pric<
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay: "We
have seen nothing on these fubjeils more plain,
more prrfpicuous, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univcrlity in Phi
ladelphia.
• 5 Beauties of Poetry, British aijd American,
containing feleft productions of the molt eminent
-*ritifh and American poets—Price lour-filths of
a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons,containing the whole of the
three volumes of the Britffh edition, in two
Price two dollar*.
7• Necker's Treatifc on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.— Price four-fifths of a dollar,
j 8. Examination of the Observations ot Jiord
i Sheffield on American Commerce—Puce, on very
fine paprr, 5 Bths of a dollar
9- The Constitutions of the several United St?tes,
with the Federal Conllitution, &c. Pricc fivc
cighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in
i2mo.—Price tbree-eightbs of a dollar.
11. American Jest Book, in two parts, with
two very neat engravrags—Price bound, three
fifths of a dollar.
12, Garden of the Soul, by Bishop Chalcnor---
Price, bound in calf and lettered, three quarter*
of a dollar—plain, halt a dollar.
13, The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—Pricc, elegantly bound and ktter
c"» 5°J2 —plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecum—Price a
quarter dollar.
15. Think well on't, or reflections for every
! " a V s he month.—Price a quarter dollar.
16. Christian Economy, translated from a
Greek maniifcript, found in the island of Patmoa
Sr. John wrote the Apocalypse—Prices,
fifth of a dollar.
t7- History of Charles Grandifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
of a dollar.
19. Select Poems, chiefly American-.-Price a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large afTortment of
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the mod /eafonable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied in
the mod fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries,
or to fell again.
Wm. cleland,
BOSTON,
Tranfacis business in the Funds of the United
States;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &r.
Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of* the Union, will be attended t*
with Diligence and Punctuality.
June 1
I IVANT ED -TO RENT.,
ft~T A convenient House, in or near the centre tf
I the City.—Enquire of the Editor.
Jul* 10, 1 7ga .
to the Commissioner*.
[>P'IJ
[ep\m & iaiu2n)