€>m»<
A NATIONAL PAPtR, PUBLISHED WhDNfcSDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADEI PHIA
[No. 38, of Vol. IV.] Wednesday, October 10. 1792.
f „ & GAZETTE of the UNITED STATIS
THE H-fcJPUBUCAN.— No. 11.
SOME reronlfi were made in a preceding paper
to rtiew that tire bai.k and finding fyfUms
hive no greater tendency than any other property
10 (life up great men to the prejudice of the equal
„2huol the citizens 11 is adinutea that by tac,.
„ade and ioduArv in almost all their ope
rations, those la ws will haficu the perird when
w? fhali become a wealthy nation. Induflry, if
h had been left under the disadvantages which it
fuff-rrd before the adoption of the prefer.! happy
confiitutioo, woslf mike progress towards the
(ame po.ni, and at US it >> »«y probable, fupponng
the country not to fall into, contusion for w»m of
inefficient government, it would rezcb it. No
person howtytr «••• cer.fure Ibofc aftj for their
known uidz-xperienccd tendency to increase the
wraith of the coi ; "y. The acculation, if it has
any good teofe in it, znj(l be undfrftood to mean
Il'jt the wealth gained will he possessed too uni
ci'lly. Tne former publication was iotended to
prove ibat the laws could not have been intended
to produce that effefl—and that even if it (hauld
so happen,the increase of other property, the in
crease of know 1 dge, and the equal mode of diltfi
but ng eflates, would afforjl a Ipeedy and eficSual
jenjedy.
On an impartial view of the United States, no
man will deny that the landed interefl maintains
its ancient preponderance; nor will he pretend
that the value to which the public (locks have
Tifen, wi'.l diminidi it. The debt is not increaftng,
but is dimniifbing daily, and the time of its ex
tins;ui(hrftent need not be far removed. The a
mount of the bank itock is also fixed, and is to the
landed property as a drop in the ocean. The
landed interell, on the contrary, has thousands of
hands yearly imported to increase us impoitance.
Some hundred thousand acres are added every year
10 the cultivation of our country. Look at the
late enumeration, and fee how tew live in cities
compared wiih those in the country ; and while
(he cities increase ten, the country »ains a thou-
sand. On this general view ot the fubjeft, a man
may be convinced that there is no overruling mo
oied icfluence railed up to govern the landed, as
those writers have inlinuated, whose purpose it is
to set one part of the people against another.
It is obvious these are merely hints to lead the
mind to the facts and arguments by which one 1
might exped to refute the artful and mifefcievous
publications which have been made against the
bank and funding atts.
Another complaint is, that the fame mm, who
are laid to plot against equal liberty, and who rely
on these systems as a principal part ot their strength,
iontri\cd to benefit the middle and eaAern ftatcb
to the prejudice of the southern. This charge is
not coß&tent with itfelf, Surely the plotters
would be fool* indeed to make the powerful
southern states, in the very outset of their scheme,
their oppofers. If the public paper is pofleffed in
a less degree at the southward than in other parts,
every Teal friend of the Union will Tegret that it is
not more diffufed among the inhabitants of the
whole country. It is a misfortune to the govern
ment, that in pursuing the g neral laws ot jufbee,
they lhaU leem to have local intercfts in view, as
if furiufhes calumnv a oretext for its inventive*.
But v»iihout exercising a worse tyranny, and prac
ticing more local partiality than pvfcq the acculers
complain of, the government could no- have pre
vented the fou'thei n tran fers of their Hock. It
was ou: of the power of Congress to hinder men
from uiing their own according to their pleasure.
It ibe Uws in question (land vindicated against
the charge of producing a dangerous inequality of
property and influence, is there any thing in them
to impair the republican equality o? rights.
It is the boast and the prote&ion of a f r ec peo
ple, that the laws are g.cncr(Li rules ot action pre
ferred by the iuprcme authority of the nation,
ft u ihe reproach anid the curse of fLves, (hat; what
are called laws are arbitrary edi£is or dpcrccs
made io fuu the special cafe. Th< y aie no: gene
ral rules which will not bcqd to tavor particular
men—out each edj£l is an cxccption trom thofe
lules, and the a& of applying the remedy seems
to deitroy irs nature, ror general and equal laws
place rich and poor on the fame ground, and in
ihe very moment of their paflage they pass trom
the legislators to tfte'judges, and, effectually strip
the fbimer of the means ot dut pguithing friend>
from foes. They secure a rigiu impartiality to J
government, as they take away the capacity of be
ing ufeful to theirfavorites, andvindi&ive towards
their adversaries.
These are principles which every juryman has
been charged to ielpe£t, and has taken an oath to
maintain. What is ?he funding system but a ftm
ple conformity ot the public condudl wiih its so
lemn engagements ? It has pot prefutned to make
an arbitrary decree founded on the merit of those
who once held, and the demerit of the prcfent
holdcrsof the certificates. It has considered the
notes as giving rights founded on all the law? and
Tefolutions of the'old Congress, and Tight has ap
peared to the new Congress as facrcd and intingfc
~le. R'ghi has seemed to them above their own
power, and indeed abe>ve any power. Accord
ingly, without rrgarcing persons, they adhered
to principles— ihey piovidcd for the debt, and
predit has risen in coofequence. j
But those who pretend to be better friends of
liberty than others, would have had Congress give
or withhold the- payment of its debts-, according
to the refuit of an enquiry into the orcumftauces
of the persons claiming the money. An arbitrary
diforetion, which uo fixed principles could either
interpret or rcflrain, seemed to them preferable it
ihe mode which adopted. They would have I
hid the original holders receive a part, and the
prefem holders another part of the debt—but whe
ctier muchorili'tle, »«d 10 what defcriptioti of
perfoa* meiit.{V»o v be •, -ana depend
on the will er»d pleasure of the government.
Will it, be bcluved that men who advocated this
arbitrary and impraSicable feneme, are the loudeit
in their ctnfures ot Ihe funding aft—as being ar
bitrary, miiuit, founded on partiality and tavo
rit:{m, and dangeTous to equal republican rights.
Let them compare it with their own pioj £t, and
if shame can ibll raise a blush on the taces of ve
teran party-men, they will be iiient and con
founded.
If the tillo to an horse or a barrel of corn be iu
difput*, it is a noble privilege thai the whole
power of our government cannot dtilroy a man's
right. The law must have its courle, and it con
tents thole who made it. But when filiy or (ixtv
millions of property are depending before Con
gress, these republicans, as they dare to call them
selves, would make a fpoit of the acknowledged
right of the poflefTor?. The plighted faith of the
nation is nothing. They would not leave the
queilions (iho' none really exifl) between oiiginal
and present holders to the courts of law, but ihey
would havoCongfefs outdo the divan of Constan
tinople, and wipe out the contract with a fpunge.
There is no occasion to make these obfcrvatious
to ihe people of America. They have long been
w;?II fettled iti the perfOafiOn of ih'eit truth; But
when the tnemiej of government attempt to en
flame men's minds in the manner they have done,
to retori the charge upon their own propositions,
is making them their own accusers—it is con
founding them with the words of their own
mouths.
FOR THE GAZETTE VF THE UN JI ED STATES.
A Statement of some ObjcElions to the Adninijlration
oj tkt Federal Government.
Mr . Flnno,
I HAVE observed a long time that your pa
per abounds in very uncharitable and severe
ftri&ures on those of our citizens who happen
to be diffatisfied with either our federal consti
tution or the adminiftratiou under it.
As to the conjiitution, I remember that whilst
it was under deliberation, sundry amendments 1
were proposed ; but since its adoption by all the
Jiates, I have heard little complaint, except what
is found in various pieccs in your paper, and
there ascribed to an uneasy, touchy, quarrel
some party, said to be scattered over the union,
but which I believe exists no wfcere but in thole
pieces.
As to t!w adr.iittlftration of the. federal &
vernmer.t, I have not heard of more than to'
fpcc : i ot" material objections to it—or.e ot whici
refpeus the WeJlirn l'erritoiv-
It" the population of the frontiers had bee/
:rowded out in doje columns, and every exteriol
townlhip or tract of land had been firft filed uttU
'"habitants, before the next adjacent laud; hat
ieeu ib,d or permitted to be fettled, in thai
afe the frontier lettlements would have beei
upported by an inherent flrcngth, the xntoads o!
enemy would have been difficult and dangerous.
md of" course our a-jcnce would have been e.r.y,
, eap and effectual; whereas permitting thv
ceakfcttlemcnis to be scattered along a vajl/ron
ier, rendered them incapable oj defence, wnilft at
;he fame time it made the inroads of the enemy
a:y, and in a manner tree of danger.
l'erha. s too in our firft treaties n ith the Li
lians, we afluined Sovereign and diciatoria
lirs, « hich irritated their feciing-:, and held uy
•ights and demands totally inadmifiible on theii
tart, and which we could not fuppoit on an)
eafonable grounds of claim.
This lou.ee of discontent and refenttr.cnt
uon fermented into allion and injury, and deadly
.ninufitias begun to appear both in the Indians
.nd our frontier 'isople, and which were every
lav more and more inflamed by innumerable
nlults, depredation;, murders, and all kinds of
irovocation, mutually committed and retaii
ited, tiil the whole of our frontier was in a state
if general hostility, and tfiade the atten.':or. oi
he general government indispensably necessary.
Whether the war could have been prevents
iv any prudent pacific meal'ures, I dur.'t pretend
0 determine ; but admitting t.ie war to be
neiiiable, the mrajum adipted for carrying It on,
.ave been thought by fo:ne people to be not very
1 roper.
The experience of all North-America inva
iably proves, that fighting Indians h regular
reefs is no likely way to insure l'uccefs ; 'tis
ike uxJertdking to kill flics with a cannon
tall, the very wind of which will blow them
lwiv v. itl.out hii'ti' g or even touching them.
I ihould fuppo e that men long inured to tra
-erii ig the wood , who have by habit and usage
equired icrength and hardiness fuflicient for
ong marches, and are acquainted with every
afy method of performing them, and fupport
ng t'nemfelves with provisions and ail modes oi
.cco.-r.ir.od.v.ion, would be the proper men to
ie employed.
If men of this character could be encouraged
iv proper pay, honours and rewaids, to form
hemfelves into voluntary fecieties or compa
res, and could be furmfhed with every necet
arv accommodation of arms, cloathing and
troviiions, from the public flnres, and be per
nitted in their own way to ravage the wcads,
»r penetrate into the enemies country, -.-- ith
lefign and egal to annoy them in every pofTible
nanner—l conceive that five hundied men of
his caff, and thus accoutred and employed,
149
would take our enemies in their own way, and
would ves a»4 dispirit tbe Indians, either in
their towns, hunting parties, or military expe-
trillions, more than ten times the number formed;
into a regular aimy, at twenty tiroes the ex-
pence which would be fufficient in this way.
It may be objected that this mode of carrying
on war would be a difgractful imitation oj Indian
Jdvattncfs; but I answer, that however iucon
tinent with the generous feelings of our own
people, Ikulking parties, bush fighting, premi
ums on scalps, gee. &c. may appear, yet I think
as the Indians adopt these Javagc modes to our
great annoyance— honor and j>*jlice will permit
and tht publicJf/ety does require a retaliation on
them, and that too in full tale.
I coaie now to the second fort or species oi
complaint that I have heard against the cotidufl
of the federal government under the present
constitution, which respects. the funding system,
the complainants of this fort have been very
scandalously traduced by sundry writers in your
paper ; have been held up as inimical to the
payment of juff debt?, to the ftipport cf public
credit, to national jultice, and honor, as friends
to anarchy baseness and confuiion, &:c. and have
been called upon with iufolent challenge to step
forward and shew their faces, and avow their
objections. I here accept iluir challenge, (hew my
t'.vce, and avow my objections, and I Conceive
that if I was followed by all the citizens of the
Union, whose fentiinents are similar to mine,
I should lead the grcatcjl army that ever was on
any occasion collected in North-America.
To lave the writers in your paper the trou
ble of misunderstanding me, I will in the most
exolicit manner explain what I do, and what I
do'not object to, in the funding fyfcem; I will j
begin with the negative part of my declaration
because that will require the feweft word 1 ;.
I ft. I do not object to the payment of the just
public debts, and in a manner fully adequate
to the contrast, merit or matter out of which
the debts originally grew,
2d. I do not objeif to the mode of railing t' e
public revenue by an import on imported goods,
I only wish that the import might be confined to
imported luxuries, or l'uch articles as are ir.oft
ly used by the rich, and that the consumptions
of the poor may be free of burden as far as may
well be, confident with thp ends and uses of tbe
tax. Indeed I don't know but I claim that
mode of revenue as my original thought or in
vention, which I publilhed and explained in my
flVwv on free trade and finance in
long before any particular mode of general re
venue was discussed, or even propofcd in Con
gress, which ever came to my knowledge.
3d. I do not object to the institution of banks,
but think the bank of the United States an in
fringement of the public faith plighted to the
bank ofNorth America, and an ungrateful re
tribution for the great merit and exertions of
that bank for the salvation of our country in
the time of its greatest danger and distress.
2d. I now come to the positive part of nij
objections to the funding system. I obje& t(
the mode of raifmg a revenue by an excise 01
either the produce or manufactures of t ie coun
try' —the excifeon home difbilleres i. eludes both
the labor is that of our own people, and the lav
materials are all, except foreign n;o!afles, tlu
produce of the country ; I object to this duty
I ft, because the nature of its collection require
an authority in the excise officer to enter th<
domains of every individual, infpeft his private
bufmefs and concerns, and even search his mof:
retired apartment', bed rooms and cloiet.—
r.nd 2d, because the collection is not only thu
irritating, but is alio very expensive ; I am tolc
that the collection of the present exciie colt
about 12 per cent, be fides all the wrangles aboul
it, which are in themfeives ever expensive a:
well as pernicious; 3d, because the duty is al
p;:id by the poor, especially by the
fro . :ier ; e.'p'e v ho are a ufeful Jet of men
help to people, cultivate and defend the coun
try, but from their situation neccifarily have £
harder lot than tie more inteiior inhabitant 0
and I think it crue- to begrudge them a little
whisky of their oh n diHilling to comfort then
hearts under all their trials and hard (hips, or tc
diminilh their enjoyment by adding expence arc
other odious circumstances thereto. But m)
greatest objection is more to the difpojal of the
money, when it is collected, than to the exill
ing mode of aflefling or collecting it—the mo
ney when collected from the labors of the peo
pie, is given by the funding system, not to the
fljfn who originally earned it, not to the men tc
whom the public faith was plighted ever ar.d ovei
again, net to men who contributing their JubJlana
ar.dfeivicrjy saved our country saved us all in th<
(Ene of deepest distress—but by this fatal fyfteii
a title is given $nd payments actually made o:
an immense treaf tire —the cUcr earnings of tbe
forementioned Patriots, rot to them, I fay, bul
to a parcel of Jpeculators who never earned a (hil
ling of it, or paia any adequate compenlation foi
it, or even set up any kind of t tie to it, ground-j
ed either on their merit, earnings, Jervices, or
any purcbafe for valuable considerations paid,
but they claim and receive it under a most ex
travagant fouftruction of an oid rule of h.w,
jlra>r,cd) a>id stretched far beyond every reafonon
which the lav." ever was and is now grounded.
The following isa plain ftafccr.ientof thefa<s\s
which I offer in the face of all the v or!d, and
challenge aU your writers, and every body eife,
o deny or controvert thcCi if tr»ey
[Whole No. 360.]
I ft, The pn')lic faith was plighted in most
fbtemn x a'/ner to the erijrrntt! public creditor*
for the payment of such iupplies acd fervicesas
rendered to tt»
2d, In the settlement of" ttt»f the
ballance-; due to the© weie adjuftec!, ascertain-
Ed and recorded Sfi the public books, where they
(land open to infpe&ion f t this Hay.
3d, When their refpernve baflarces became
due, they were no oti.erwife paid than by depre-
ciated certificates, -vorth at their current ex-
change about 2/6 in the pound, which ought to
be debited to their accounts, and the reraainixsg
ballance, paid in good xnone}: tdr public bills oV
paper credit are ever to be valued at their ex-
change, and no mare, and all nations »egociate
them in that way alone.
But, 4th, The funding fyftejn phghts tic
public faith for the payment of the whole origi
nal debt, to the holdsrs of the certificates, molt
I of which have been fold for a trifle by the origi
nal holders, and are notv.found in the bands of
purchasers, who never earned the money or
paid any adequate conf-dsratioa for it, bat are
entitled by this system to receive it all.
This, besides injufiice, ingratitude, and vio
lation of public faith plighted to the real credi-
tors, involves nrfchiets and brings on confe
j quinces very hurtful to the prosperity of the
nation.
I. Payment t# t!te reft! ori(u»»t creditors
wooid have been an of jufixe, aod fonie «4«-
ritict to ntany worthy citirtns, who have long
fußered by the poMic deficiency—wofciid haw
animated their ir.dvjiry, and in very many in-
fiances delivered thein from aiflual dependence
for a support either on abjed fcrvitude, or the
charity of their neighbors;—whereas payment
of the fame monies to the speculators, raises a
few men to sudden wealth, which they never
earned, and which, as they are not qualified by
habit or education to erjoy properly, does them
more harm than good.
This, as far as it goes, acevnu/ates the money
of the country in" a few ulelefs hands, and at the
lame time Jeiiens that diffufive circulation
which would animate the ir.duftrv and increase
the wealth and happiness. of the people jji gene*
nfl through the nation.
2. As Congress fat at New-York when the
funding fydem was under difcufTion, the specu
lators the c and in the catched the
secret of that magical logic—which v. as to turn
2/6 into 20/. and diligently improved the preci
ous moment, and sent off large orders to the
southern dates for buying iimnenfe quantities
:>f certificates, for the trifle which was then
:heir current value; and when trey brought
:hem to the northward, the funding fydem made
them all payable to the holders there—so that
he northern people will receive all the cash for
hem, whild the burden of railing the money
vill press equally hard on the southern as on the
lorthern dates.
This, in effect, will make the southern dates
n a manner tributary to the people cf the r.or
hern dates in a large sum of annual intered ;
Ind as this mud continue as long as the fydem
ad?, it becomes a serious matter, big with con
equences hurtful enough both to the union ard
o the southern people, and obvious enough to
ender a prophetical detail unnecelTary here.
3. As our 6 per cents and other funds are let
it an higher intered than can be obtained tor
aoney loaned in Europe. Very great purchafcs
iave been made by Europeans in our fund?,
ind they have remitted vad sums of money for
hat purpole, which has made money, and con
cqr.ently luxury, extremely plenty with us a-t
►resent—and this biejjed pUnty of money is by
ome people with great pout aligned as one of
he bluffed effe&s of the funding fydem ; that it
s a natural cjfcfl of that fydem, I readily admit;
nit as to the blejfedneji of it, we (hall be better
ible to judge a little while hence, when our
rountry comes to be drained of its cash in vast
ums, which mud be sent out of it (never to leturt)
o pay the yearly intered of the iinmenfe re
mittances which we row receive, together v, ith
hat of our public foreign loans.
This country has never yet experienced a
Irain of its cash by exportation of it abroad,
vithout receiving remittances cf value either
irevions or subsequent to the fending it away,
mpertations of goods from abroad, have foine
imes exceeded the resources cf the country,and
nacie calh somewhat But the final loss
lid not all red on the country—much of it fell
»n the foreign merchants, by the bankruptcy of
heir correspondents here. We caDnot yet well
udge how great the blcjjedntji ct these effects
nay be, but I have had one taste of them, which
las quite cloyed my appetite, flnce which I have
iot had a wish for a repetition cf the blefling.
}ne thinn. we kno>v by experience,, that when
terling b\l! r . ri'e above 75 per cent. it will be
he intered, a> d of course the practice of people
vho have remittances to make to Europe, to
end away cash rather than bills, in which cafe
he real money will go out of the country per
laps fafter than it now comes in. In fine, if
hefe fatts and observations are tru# and weil
ounded, they deserve the prions attention of
very man.—lf other wife, any man who will
lilprove them, will give me fir.cere pleasure,
ind relieve me from many painful anxious feel
ngs. If any one desires my true name, he fyatl
iave it ; I am not afnamed of it—but I believe
am fufficiantly known by my old denature.
A Citizen of Philadelphia-Foreign Affairs.
■ PARIS, August 12.
OF the engagement on Friday I
cannot speak from my own ob
servation ; for though 1 was within
hearing, 1 did hoc lee it. My account
, *
is, however, from fpei'tators.— 1 here
is no doubt hut the Swiss fired fit It,
but not until-they w ere prefled upou
in the molt violent way, and their
guns forcibly turned round, and
planted againll ihe palace. M.d'AfFry
gave the order to fii e. The federated
of Bred and Marseilles ruffaed lor
ward, and in a few minutes there was
a dreadful flatighter. The Swiss re
treated to the l'alace, and kept a moU
fatal fire from the windows. ihe
dead lay in heaps. The Quays were
full of people, armed and unarmed,
and directing their fire deliberately
into this multitude ; the madacre was,
dreadful. It djd not, however, inti
midate the afT'ailants. Seven pieces
of cannon were played on'the Thuil
leries and the Louvre. They made
breaches in the old walls in a (liori
time ; but their imperuofity from the
place de C&rotifal, was inefiftable.
They broke in and in a few minutes
the multitude filled the palace ; eve
ry Swiss that came in their way pe
rilled ; bat numbers found tempora
ry fafety in the cellars and garrets,
and were with difficulty laved from
the rage of the people: 1 can give
you no perfect account of the dead.—
From the numbers, jet uiiburied—or
thrown jnto the Seine—or burnt—for
a fire was made in the Place de Ca
ronfal, in which the furniture, the
tapestry, &c. of the Palace, was con
sumed ; and into which, in the wan
tonnefs of cruelty, many dead bodies
(such as they knew to be gentlemen)
were thrown ; I suppose there were
not fewer than 2foo —lome carry the
number much higher—ando'thers di
minish it to a very final! number in
deed— but this will, bye and bye be
ascertained —The names I have heard
are those of M. d'Affry, the Abbe Bau
illiou, Carle, Mandat, &c. The Pa
lace is completely dismantled. The
day was excessive hot ; and they re
galed thetnfelves on the King's wine.
They brought it out in itnmenfe quan
tities ; and it was not uncommon to
fee men and women, after their own
draught, put the bottles to the mouth
of the dead lying in mangled heaps,
with that spirit ot furious sport which
they have all along exhibited, cry.
ing—" Here, take your last drink ! —
F— ! Drink ro the nation !"—The
horrors of the day cannot be describ
ed to you in adequate language, for
the beginning of our career in July
17?9, was exceeded.
M. Mandat, the commander of the
National Guard, was arretted going
down the (lair cafe of the Hotefde la'
Ville. He was seized by the people,!
beheaded, and his head fixed upon a :
pole, and carried through the fti eets. I
In about an hour from the com-|
mencement of the attack on the Pa
lace, not one Swiss was left. Ninety
lix who survived their Colonel and
Genera! d'Aftiay, demanded quarters,
but they were conducted to the Place
de Greve, and there put to death.
About three hundred Marfeillefe have
fallen, and near a thousand citizens
among which were several women!
and children whom curiosity had led!
towards the scene of action.
All the Swiss, above 500, were put
to death, and people carried the rem
nants of their cloths 011 the ends of
their pikes in triumph. The pavili-l
ons of the Palace near the Place del
Carotifal were afterwards set on fire I
as w el! as the Swiss barracks.
The maids of honor of the Palace 1
were conducted to the Section-the
reft of the persons on duty were put
to death : The wine cellars were a
lone plundered ! The jewels, plate
&c. were brought to the Aflbmbly.and
deposited in fafety.
1 he attack at the Palace began be
fore ten o'clock. A Marfeillefe officer
appeared at the principal door of the
Palace and demanded entrance for
hiuifelf and his banditti, from a Swiss
ofheer who commanded there The®
Swiss replied, that bis orders 'would!
not permit him to comply. The Mar 1
feillefe officer instantly applied a pis
tol to his bread, and Ihot him ,hro'
tne heart
TU. Sulsu, the Queen's Secretary,
is likewile among those whose
were cut off in the Palace. i
Many of the women belonging jto
the Palace, and foiiie others,' njei
an equally unfortunate fate,
had Hed far lafety, and had reachjed
the bridge. Knowing that t heir lives
were in danger, if they were taken,
about twenty threw theml'elves over
the balluftrades into the water, ami
were frowned.
The King and Queen hehavpd
tbemfelves with great fortitude. The
King's countenance throughout (lie w
ed ligns of the mod perfect compo
sure. The Queen looked with an air
of magnanimity and disdain on her
enemies.
It is said that the King is to have a
public trial on the 28111 of this month.
The King, Queen and family bore
their condition with great equanimi
ty. The Piefident's room wasa/iign
ed them, and there they have remain
ed ever since. The Palais Bourbon
is converted into a prison for the
Swiss, and for all the persons whom
they cbufe to apprehend upon fufpi
cion. The Feuillant Journals are all
(topt, and by opening letters they
have gained a pretty general know
ledge of their enemies, and they are
arielting them in numbers. — What
they really propose to tbemfelves—
whether they have any profpecl of
(landing their ground, and trying a
Republic, or whether the handful of
leaders mean to lly as soon as the fo
reign army, or the French army makes
its approach, for either will be equal
ly fatal to them, 1 know not.
This dreadful scene, however it
may close upon the fate of France,or
upon the fortune of liberty, ought to
be a let Ton to every government that
true wildom confilts in fair dealing—
and that to cajole, to trick, and to
play the hypocriie with a whole peo
ple, is as weak as it is wicked ; I fay
this, fcecaul'e I am persuaded, that
the want of candor, more than trea
son in the court, has brought upon
them this carafhophe. They wilhed
an increase of power, which in due
time the nation would have given
them, but 100 eager, they tried to ac
complilh it by secret and difhonell
means.
They are punished ; but in their
punifhmeiit liberty has received a
mortal blow, and France, for a time
at lead, is delivered into the hands
of men, who began their career by
perjury and tieafon ; and have hi
therto (hewn no other token of talents
than in the adroit management of a
mob !
August 13
It is natural to suppose, that no in
dustry will be fpai eil to exhibit proofs
of the correspondence of the court
with the enemies of the country.
Two papers are already publilhed, as
letters found in the Efcrutaire of the
Queen.
| The fir ft is said to be found in the
I Sect etarie of Marie Antoinette by M.
Collard de Trone, a cannonier of the
dillritft of l'etiis I'eres. He certainly
brought to the Allembly ijoo L.ouJ*
d'Ors, which he found, as he said, in
the lame el'crutaire, and he would
accept of 110 reward for his honesty.
The note is aflerted to be in the hand
writing of the Queen of Fratke. It
is addrefied to the Arch Duchess, her
fitter, and runs thus : I
" Verfons tf my acquaintance,
" The Duke and Ducliels of Choifeul.
'• The Duke and Duchess of Preflin!
( Hautefort. £1 recommend
' The Duchatelets. ro you all the
;:?« L„na illsinalJ
D Aubterre. that you can
J!" r D Alinon. ( )e ufefu , lQ
M. Gerard. them.]
" rhe Conipte de Broglio.
I he Biothers de Montazet.
La Beauveau, a Religieufe. and her
company.
" The Durfoits. It is to this famtfy
that you fl.ould display your grati,
tude and attention on every occasion :
and the fame for the Abbe de Ver
niont. The fate of thefetwo persons
mi at my heart. My Ambaflkdor is
charged to take care of them. 1
mould he furry to he firft to deviate
■ torn my principle of not recommend
ing any or.e • but yon and 1 owe too
much to these persons, nor to JVrive
on all occasions to be ufefnl to them
if we can do fi> without too much i,,,!
150
[pegno (expeuce). Consult with
TOerci.", V
The second is a long Jet;er from a
person in the French army, exhibit
ing-fuch a pi<siure of the cowardice
and want of discipline of the French
troops, as the Ariitocratic party have
delighted to paint ; and tending to
'hew, that there was a secret under
(landing between those who directed
the motions of the army and theAuf
trians. It is neither important nor
entertaining ; and if genuine, mufl
evidently, from the flippant familia
rity of the style, have been addrelled
to fonie person about the Queen, and
not to herfelf.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
August 12.
A number of petitioners being ad
mitted to the bar, their orator spoke
as follows :
" Legiflafors ! There is amonft you
a deputy who a traitor to his coun
try"". We have brought proofs of his
treachery. M. Blancgilly of Mar
seilles called himfelf the friend 6( the
people. When appointed a Deputy,
he kept up a correspondence with h-is
fellow-citizens rather like a dema
gogue than an enlightened Patriot.
He afTumed the livery of the Arifto
crats. Since the 20th June, he has
been circulating a work, written by
himfejf, which one would rather as
cribe to the Minister Terrier. This
work is full of calumnies against the
Marfeillefe. On the 2lfl of July, he
wrote—" You may depend upon the
following fat'ls : Armies, formidable
both by their numbers and discipline,
are advancing against us. It is as im
poflible to flop thein as to move moun-
tains. The trania&ions of the 20th
of June have won over all hearts to
the King. Hasten therefore to be
firft, like good men, in quitting the
society of conspirators, left you be
confounded with them. The plot
formed for aflaffinating the King dis
graces the federates of this city."
This man did not then know the plea
sure of having a country ! His hands
have been formed to wear chains !—
Legislators ! banish from among you
this traitor ! this infamous wretch !
Tin»e will inform you who are the
real regicides,—whether thole who
wilh for a conjlitutional King, or
those who wifliing to restore despot
ism, have exposed him to the ven
geance of a people detetinined either
to perish or be free. It is true the
Marfeillefe consider all Kings as the
scourge of the earth ; but if they are
desirous of freeing thcinlelves from
theirs, it is not by crimes but by the
fover«ign will of the people. Loujj
XVI. has dug the grave of Royalty,
the only service he could have ren
dered France."—Loud and reiterated
applauses followed this address.
A member of the deputation of
Marseilles said, that M. Blancgilly
had so completely performed the part
of a political hypocrite, that, at the
beginning of the Revolution he was
detained fix or seven months a pri
soner at Marseilles as an incendiary.
M. Cranet of Marseilles.—" Anad
miniftrator of the Bouches du Rhone
has just sent me the printed copy of
letter, written by M. Blancgilly to
Boyer, the chief of the conspiracy
which wasto cutthe throatsof all the
Members of the adminilhative body
of our city," Several voices cried out,
.Kead, read the letter !" on which
the following lenience was read :
The Jacobins will never succeed in
eltablilhing republicanism, nor the
heuillants in eilablifhing monarchy.
Nothing could exceed the courage of
our good King and his augull fpotife.
On the 20th of June, they were rob
bed of a confidei able quantity of plate
and jewels. Our armies are every
I where defeated. The King of Pruf
fia will be at Coblentz on the
Every thing will go on well. He
will spend the autumn in Paris. About
the end of July or middle of Atigull
Monsieur will be declared Regent of
the kingdom, and Louis XVI. really
King of France, will ro longer be
the conlHtutii»nalKing of the French."
[Murmurs of indignation were heard <
from all fides of. Ihe I ! 1]
M. Lacroix—" I moved ,or a de
cree of accusation agaiuft M. R| ,c ;
gi'ly, because I believe i ~cn
py had been coll atcl l>y i,{ . , r I
trator ; hut ns i; is v <
mull be ordered to vh :; r
f wer interrogatories rCeve, ,1
cried out No, no ;_ a " t T' '
the tribune (continued
or, untill a decree of accufa-i i
been pafled against a rep ref «"
of the people, he is °
nocent. I request that the
may order one of its melTeng,* '
repair to h,s house, and hi m
ln,me f li . at e | ytothe Affembi™
his piopofition was adopted
August 16.
WAR WITH
J\l. Le Brun, secretary f or fnr .
affairs, notified the assembly tl )a . f
Empress of fluffia had declared \»ar
a gat 11 It trance ; the Impeviat CV
tharme, from the moft.euio.ecorner
of the north, ordered Frenchmen IO
reinflate Louis XVI. in alUis royal
prerogatives --M. Cencft, the
amballador, had been expelled Kufii,.
Referred to the Diplomatic Commi;!
t Cf.
Louis XVI. is now in the Temple
he was transferred there last TueTda/
—M. Petion was in the fame carriage
with the King and his fami]y_L 0 i?i s
feenied afraid ; tJiecroud onthePlace
Vendome hindeied his coach f rom
proceeding ; and it flopped exactly
opposite to the demolished itatue of
Louis the Fourteenth. The fall 0 f
that magnificent idol mull haveawoke
ft ran ge reflections in his fwolien
breast, all inimical to the vanity of
terreftial affairs. O Louis ! how
easy might it have been for you lu
have avoided such humiliation.
We hear that Genera! La Fayette
was on the 12th informed of iheevents
of the 10th in ft. It is said he did hoc
credit the report, and that he added
;hefe words: "Let what will be
(■'atft, my army will obey me !"
LONDON, Aoguft ro.
The graruity given by Lord Corn
wallis, to the officers and soldiers of
his army, and equal to fix months bat
ta, is as follows :
Sterl. Stsr/.
A, Colonel 412 A Captain —nj 4
A Lieut.Col —360 A Lieut 7616
A Major 288 An Ensign— 57 !2
The good and great Staniftaus, 111
the midst of his diltrefs, has effected
one great national purpose, namely,
the yeomanry and peasantry, are lio
longer S:rfs (i. e. slaves to their Lords,
transferable like cattle) they are
henceforth to be free, and are to have
equal laws, and justice adminiltered
in a legal manner.
On Sunday, Mr. Merrywether, a
pothecary at Green Hammerton, and
Mils Gray, of Wiiftrop, set off on a
matrimonial expedition to Gretna
Green. Few circumftanees of this
nature ever caused more bustle a
inongft the inhabitants of York. The
lovers, on one horse, galloped molt
forioufly thio' ihe principal streets,
closely pursued by a quondam admir
er of the lady, and another person
who rode as furioufly, vociferating,
" Stop them ! Stop them !" They
were (topped near the York-Tavern,
and one of the pursuers attempted to
force the young lady from her pilli
on ; (he, however, threw her arms
round the waste of her destined hus
band, and declared nothing on earth
should part them. By this time they
were furrotinded by several hundred
persons, who, " liitening to the voice
of love," espoused the caule of the
fair fugitive, and called out for a
chaise and four, which was immedi
ately procured from the tavern. The
lady made hut one step from her
horse into the carriage—the lover
followed—waved his hat as a token
of gratitude to those who had pro
tected them, and bowled them away
to the land of Love and Freedom.—
The unfortunate pursuers not being
able to get Frelh horles, gave up the
chafe.
EDINBURGH, July 7-
Or) Friday evening arrived »t Glas
gow, Lieut. General Romaizewfti, »
Polish Nobleman of high rank, ac
companied by Dr. Herfchel, the cele
brated nftronomer. Thele tliftin
guifhed strangers have been present
ed with the freedom of the City I'JT
Lord Provost and Magistrates ; > n 'j
were entertained by the Principal
and Profefiors of the College, when
Or. Herfchel was prefentcd with a
liploma of an honorary degree in
! iws. Dr. Herfchel is since arrivec
'his city.Philadelphia, Otf:. 10.
Capt. Macpberfon, of the Ship Patfey Rut-
arrived here oil Sunday last from Oftend,
which place he left onths 26th of Augnft, in
forms, that two days before he failed, letters
were received by the magistrates of tfe city,
informing, that M. La Fayette and a number
of his officers were taken by some peasants with
in the Austrian lines, and that he was conveyed
and securely confined in the Castle of Antwerp,
about 10 leagues from Oftend.
Reports in Oftend relative to this affair, were
various before he failed.
Somefaid he was on a reconnoitring party
with a few of [lis o'fficers, andwas surprised and
taken by about double tlie number of ptfal'ants.
Another report is, that lie was in disguise and
endeavoring to make his <vay through the coun
try towards fosie fc-a port town to take Shipping
for America. That he was discovered by some
of th..* inhabitants, seized and delivered into the
hands of government.
He requested, it is also Paid, to be removed
from the scene of aflion on the frontiers, and
chose Antwerp for the place of his confinement.
,The account of his beim; taken and aftnaily
confined, was c.-jimnunkatcd to Capt. Macphcr
ioa by tire mercnant to whom h-j was coclign.eri,
who had seen the letters received by the magii
trates.
Twe can therefore be but little doubt ofthe
reality of the fail. What led to his being tak?n
is not so evident.
That a genera] officer should venture into an
enemy'- country with so little caution as to be
caotured by ped ants is not very probable ; that
M. La Fayette fliould desert the cause at the
moment it moit needed his support, is more in
credible.
Information received in town from Bonr
deaux," Via New-York, may assist in unraveling
the mystery. A vellel -arrived in New-York
from i?ourdeaus, which place she left on the last
day of August, informs, thata decree of accusa
tion again;} M. La Fayette had received the
lauftion of a majority of the National Assembly.
That orders were in consequence ilTued to ap
prehend him, and another commander was cho
sen in his Head.
M. La Fayette, it is probable, receiving in
formation of this decree, before the arm of the
Jacobin party>cou!d reach him, may have taken
the reio!utiion toefca'pe their fury.
T'■: l> -each of the constitution by the Jaco-
Mhs ivo.t'.d not have been lufficient to have led
hi:n to absndon 'lis country; but the command
t. iij» taken from him by the ruling party, put
it "ut of his r .)'ver to be any longer serviceable,
t: :-ti»!!_yashU:'freft was'decreed, which might
b t >Jlo."cd by a fummarv trial, condemnation
»cd perhaps death.
An attc.r. ■; ' fly to this country as an afy
lam, would be e :■ . aely natural in such cir
cutiiftances, and . t unworthy of hhnfelf.
H; will be r-?..::d with humanity by the
deipots in v/ho'fe hanos • lias fallen ; —not fn ; f,
the emigrants had hint in their power. Plis j
efforts in favour of the King, whose life he has
favetl more titan once, will pJead powerfully in |
his behalf; but it is much to be regretted, that 1
if it was his plan to fly to this country, he (hould i
have been unfutcefsful : Here he might have |
enjoyed the sweets of that liberty, in ,the cause i
of which he - has been, so active, and we fliould !
have 'lad. an opportunity of teftifying our admi
ration ior his character and gratitude for his
services.
Capt. Macpherfon also informs, that* before
he , came away several of the officers of the
northern army had arrived at Oftend, & among
others, Count Dillon. They were probably im
pelled to emigrate in disgust at the proceedings
of the Jacobins.
The Duke of Brunfwick had taken
ot several French towns, without meeting with
oppolition.
The last accounts from Paris described the >
city as in a state of more tranquillity since the |
deposition of the King.
The decree of accusation against La Fayette;
and his capture, added to the depolition of the
have made a change in the situation of af
fairs in France. The cause of the constitution
expires; but that of liberty and re public anifm
are fliU t0 be supported.
It remains to be. seen whether a majority of
French citizens will support the proceedings of!
the jacobins at Paris : It remains to be deter- !
mined whether the royalists, ariftocratsand con-;
ftitutionalifts, will not be more numerous than
republicans. If the republicans can maintain
a decided superiority within, the cause of liber
ty and equality may still prevail—this mull still
be the wifti of every friend to the rights of man.
It is better that France fliould feel for a few
years the evils of anarchy, than again to expe
rience the horror?; of despotism. The French,
the great body of the French nation, have seen
the dawn of liberty, they can never bend to the
yoke of tyranny. ' Gen. Adv.
free people of colour and the free blacks
ol St. Domingo have not hitherto enjoyed the
privileges to which they are entitled by the de
cree of the National Alfembly of France ; this
has the principal cause of the d ft urban ces
in that Colonv.
A new election is however to take place of
Colonial and other popular Assemblies of the
"'and, in which free people of colour and ne
groes are to have a voice.
. This measure it is expected will restore unan
imity among every class of citizens, tvhich is
absolutely necefiary to eiFeft a return of good
order, and restore tranquility.
Capt.Dring, in 35 days from Bourdeaux, ar
rived at New-York last Thursday, informs, that
n * as quiet in that city when he /ailed. He
confirms the account of the murder of the three
ag,ed Priests at Cauderan (a village near Bour
deaux) as mentiohed in our last, with all the
aggravating circumstances.
The accounts from France by the Patfey
Rutiedge, are to the 26th Au'iift—eleven days
later than these by the New-York, Capt Smith.
These accounts fay that the King was still fact
in the Temple at Paris, and had not been tried.
1 he Duke of Bruniwick was marching towards*
Paris, and had threatened to put every one
there to the lword, in cafe of opposition. The
people at Oftend were of opinion, that the Duke
is able to march through all France without
meeting with much opposition.
The French-officers, it is said, desert daily—
but this is perhaps counterbalanced by a great
number of defertionsof Austrian (bifiiers toLuck
net's army.—Oftend, it is to be remarked, isin
the Austrian territories——these aCconnts are
therefore to be credited with due limitation.
M. Defparbas'is appointed Governor of St.
Domingo, in the room of M. Blancheland, and
failed from the Isle of Aix, near Rochefort, the
22d July, with 30 transports, having on board
between 6 and 7000 troops, deftinea for St. Do
mingo,and convoyed by some men of war,com
manded by M. de Camhis.
Letters from Cape-Francois advise of the
arrival of the above fleet.
The letters to the merchants of this city,even
those to Mr. Rofs, the owner of the ship Patfey
Rutiedge, Captain Macpherfon, from Oftend,
mention nothing of the capture or defertlon of
the Marquis La Fayette.
7* RAN SLAT ED
TSOM THE COLOCNE GAZETTE OF AUGUST 14.
Paris, AuguJ} 9,
THE factious redouble their efferts
ro oblige the King to quit the Capital,
despairing perhaps of being able to
execute their lalt attempts. For se
veral days the rumor of his intended l
flight, repeated with design, has kept
the people constantly in commotion';.
Every night they beat thc general in
the Fauxbourgs, to colleift round the
palace a continual coiicourfe of peo
ple. They arc preparing new and
more conliderable movements for the
night of Wednesday or Thursday
At an entertainment yesterday at
Rincy, where were the Mayor of Pa
ris and two feeret envoys or emifla
ries from England, the dethronement
of Louis XVI. was irrevocably sworn,
and the Duke of York proclaimed'
King of the French.—lf theParifians
tand National Guards do not redouble
their efforts, zeal and vigilance, the
conduct of the flagitious will bring
upon this immense city, and on its
iniferable inhabitants, all the doods
of justice and vengeance.
1 he,. Englilh Ambad'ador has in
formed the Diplomatic Committee,
that he shall take his departure, with
out taking leave, the day after the
deposing of the King (hall be pro
nounced.
We learn by letters from Valenci
ennes, that the rumour being made in
the garrison that the National Aflern
bly had decreed the deposing of the
King, the news excited a great fer
mentation among the troops of the
line—and that a great number ofihe
soldiers were ready to desert to the
pneniy with their arms and baggage.
The department, the municipality,
and the chief officers, have retained
them only by afl'uring them that the
news of the dethronement was with"- :
out foundation. There is ho doubt
that the fainedifpofition will be found
in general in all the other armies.
Luxembourg, Augufl 5. The advance
guard of the Prussian army has enter
ed thi3 Province—The troops are
cantoned at Grevenmacker, Remich,
■ Echternach, &c.
From a Richmond Paper of 08. I.
By a letter to his Excellency the
Governor, we are anthorifed to an
nounce to the.public, that Col. Har
den, with his companion, on a million
to the Indians, refpetfting a treaty of
peace,on delivering their credentials,
were immediately made prisoners,
and sentenced to be burnt as spies.
Col. Harden saw his companion ex
pire, under all the tortures which la
vage ingenuity could invent ; and
was himfelf the next morning after
his friend's execution to have Experi
enced the fame fate—but, was ifolen
from his confinement by eight young
Wyandot warriors, who fafeiy con
dueled him to Fort-Washington.
Banbury, Sept• 29
We learn from Woodbury, (Con
nefticut) that on the 26th inltaat,
a young man by the name of Perry,
was killed by the falling of a tub
of sand ; he was digging a Well,
had funk it about forty feet, the
rope parted, and the tub fell upon
his head, which deprived him oflife,
tit the age of eighteen years.
151
FROM A CORRESPONDENT,
A government of laws, and not of the def
potilm, caprices, pafTions, or prejudices of men
lias been the deiire of every friend of liberty
lince the temple of freedom was eredted in the
United States.—Nothing else can give that it a
oility to government, which is necessary to ren
der it adequate to the maintenance oftiie rights
of man. When, therefore, the grand jury of
Augusta county, at a State court held in Vir
ginia, pieiented, of their own mere motion,
certain perlous who had commenced an associa
tion against the laws of the union for raising a
duty 011 riiltilled spirits;— when thfe traverse
jury of Chester county, in Pennsylvania, con
victed certain offenders against the fame laws
of an alfauit upon the ofhcer, and fined them
for the lame ; when the hand of just govern
ment (the power of a free people) was laid upon
similar offenders in Cumberland, and in the wel
tern country of South-Carolina, every friend of
government and freedom mult have,felt his
peacej fafety, and property secure a
gainrt the inroads of defpotil'm or anarchy i be
cause they were comfortable proofs that we live
under a government of laws. Devoutly is it to
be wished, that a fa<ft of a very different com
plexion had not occurred, in the due noticing
of which, the fandlitv of the laws, and the dig
nity of our free government at this momentde
pend. Persons, who for years have held a fliare
of the legislative power of Pennsylvania, where
in an excise law existed, which imposed a larger
duty, and who never took a mealure, as legifla
tors, for the repeal of that law, nor for an op
polition to its execution, until a similar, though
duty was required by the national go
vernment, have begun to associate thamfelves
against the laws of the union.
If there be aught of foiemnity or efficacy in
the ordjiining of the federal conftitutiori by the
ti eemenof these United States, of obligation in
the national laws, or of efficiency in the re
hand to whom the people have commit
ted, for a time, the guardianfliip of their peace
and property, the lacred government of laws
will be efficiently maintained and vindicated.
It would be the play of children to bring; re
prelentatives of the people and of the States
from every quarter, from Georgia to New-
Haiiiplhire, and from the western waters to the
Atlantic occan, to go through the solemn farce
of enacting constitutional laws, if they are open
ly opposed in their execution by a few confined
circles of mifguidcd citizens. The whole of
the petitioners for a repeal of the excil'e law,
do not amount to the number of the inhabitants
of one of our principal borough-towns, or one
half of one of the smallest counties.
Where is liberty, if such minorities are to
iiifult the civil authority ?
People of America ! remember the days of*
anarchy ye have pafled, and oppose your every
effort against their return, before it be too late !
Gen. Advtrtifcr.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Hfa times of tumult and faction the worst men
in society naturally take the lead of parties.—
Not being used to govern their paHions on other
occasions, i heir vehemence surprises those who
are moderate from feeblenefs of mind, or from
temperate reflection. Such turbulent spirits
arc the fitteft to be evoked when the world is
to be set on fire. Impatient of all restraints,
of those of virtue as well as of government, they
are always complaining, always active to fo
ment sedition. Yet when difTentions arise, they
make a merit of their zeal, as if their regard
to public principles had inspired it. Is the ho
nest part of mankind duped by their pretensions,
for in troublesome times, such men are certain
ly brought forward—or do they underftanc!
them, and make use of them, as they would of
a poker to l\ir the fire when they would have it
burn brighter ? We meet with men of blasted;
chara&ers, some of whom however are not so
bad as to make any pretences of private virtue,
because if they should the world would laugh in
their faces. How often do we hear them hold
ing forth in favor o( public virtue ! as if in po
litics they were as much too (trait as they are
too Jodfe in morals. They abhor* speculation—
they would guard the laws against the nioft in
direct influence of avarice—and so jealous are
they of feeing republican principles impaired
they can scarcely endure to hear others pray,
thy kingdom come, as it lrnells of monarchy.—
They will not allow their hearers to laugh ei
ther at their extravagance or their bypocrify ;
they accuse the laughers of being speculator*;
or monarchy men.—But those who have had the
edifying opportunities of liftcning to tavern
orators and the holders forth at public corners
may be allowed to laugh in their sleeve when
they remark the contrast between the practices
and the profeifums of the declaimers. Surely
virtue must have made great progress when its
very enemies make speeches in its praise.
Happy is that people whole, oppreflions exifl
only in theory, who read in the Gazettes that
government has leized all, and yet find at their
tables nothing wanting. Is there a people who
thrive fafter, or who enjoy more, and yet is
there a government on earth To bad as certain
falfc democrats describe our own ?—lf Constan
tinople had newi'papers, which it has nor, even
Turkish tyranny could not be painted in colors
better adapted to create abhorrence- Do these
men thus paint republican government to make
us love it, or hate it ?
The friends of liberty, as they aicdeltly call
themselves, but who would destroy all that the
laws have done for liberty, tell us, that the mo
ney of the south and weft is feut to pay interest
to the middle and eaftej?h"creditors. The fain
writers complain of Handing armlefc and an In
dian war. Is not the mbnev of thd ntiddle and
eastern citizens feet for this purport south ward
and westward ?
How happens it that the virtuoun
writers who cant about the fchemei
and ipeculation, and corruption, of
the federal government, are silent in
regard to the projects of the states i
Do the tontines, and banks, and ca
nals, and Itate debts, and accounts,
and depreciation, and lauds, &c. fur
nifh no facts—or can their jealom
virtue play the nioufer only at one
rat-hole ?
Probably the United are feeing their
best days. A growing ftaie is bencr than tits
most improved ltationary one. Hope now gilds
our horizon with a lustre which wou.V Cade on
polleifion. Our towns are glowing, our Hums
improving, the fettled frontier extending, arts
and lciencesare makjrigprogiefs—
that Hands ftili? Nothing—not even the tongue
of ingratitude, which dates to charge heave*
with blame for all these bleflings.
Samuel Smith, Esq. is elected a Reprefenfa
tive in Congrel's for the State of Maryland, JV>r
the Diftvift of the Town and County of Bsiti-
more.
Yesterday at about one o'clock the election
commenced in this city formembersofCongrefs
and the State Aflembly—the poll was notclofed
when this paper went to pre(s.
The Jacobin Club in Paris, in a petition 19
the National Affembly,which was to beprcfent
ed in the name of the 48 fe&ions, fay
" Without enumerating the long lift of La
Fayette's well-known clime 1 ;, that they do de
clare him infamous and a traitor to his country ;
that they da allow any soldier or citizen to fall
upon him (de lui courir j-j>) J::d bring him dead or
alive to the bar of the National Assembly."
Sir Richard Arkwright died at Gromiord,
Derbyshire, England, in Attguft Jaft; a flatus
of this gentleman is to be erected in the centre
of a spacious square in Mancfrelter ; this wiJ
be a tribute to the worth of a man who from
the humble situation of a barber, had not only
accumulated vast wealth to himlelf, but been
the means of enriching the surrounding country.
It is laid the profits of his works for several
years amounted to annually.
When the fir ft cotton mill was erected
by this gentleman at Dei by, the manufacturers
were imprefied with such an idea of its being
pregnant with ruin to them, that they rose in a
body with a determination to destroy it; and
would undoubtedly have done so, had not the
military been called in for its protection.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVED at ike PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Adriana, Curwin, Liverpool
Patfey Rutledge, M'Pherfon, Oftend
Hannah, Hawkes, Oporto
Friendlhip, Gould, London
Snow iSukey, Rogers, Ki'panioia
Brig SweHow, Gheefcman, Briton
Fair Hebe, F.ldridgc, Tenerifte
Theodofia, Leake, Bourrieaux
Kitty, Shurtlifi, Cape-Francois
Conncll,
Sally,
Peter Augustus, Robfon,
Sch'r Friendship, Art,
Charming Betsey, Odlin,
SJoop Two Brothers, Hill,
Illinois, Hughes,
Hope, Hufley,
Polly, »Cahoone,
Industry, Almy,
Vency, Henly,
Industry, Harding,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Certs, 2, /9 i Im.cl
3 per Cents, 13J )
Deferred, *4/6
Full /hares Bank U. S. 48 per cent. prem.
shares, 60
To the Public.
THE fubferiber returns his most refpeftful
compliments to his friends and the public,
for the many favors he has received, and begs
leave to inform tbem that he has upon hand a
few fine toned
Forte Pianos,
which he will warrant superior to any imported,
and which he will dispose of on reasonable terms.
The great number of Forte Pianos lately
imported from London and Dublin, induces the
fubferiber to caution the public against the art
ful insinuations of persons commiifioned to vend
them—who, for a very trifling compensation,
recommend inftrumeuts that are nothing but
the refufe of the European Music-Shops, and
imported at a mere trifle, and fold for the lame
price as a good instrument, to the great disap
pointment of the ignorant purchaser, who ge
nerally pays as much for repairs in a year or
two, as the original cost of a good instrument.
N. B. Musical Instruments let out by the
month or quarter, likewise Musical lnftrumenti
tuned and repaired in the best maimer, and on
tlie most reasonable terms, by
CHARLES TAWES,
[4t] No. 6" 1 , Walnut, near Third-Street.
John Gould,
HAIR-DRESSER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in ge»«-
ral, that he continues to carry on his buiinefs
as usual, at No. I, South Third-Street, near
Marker Street, and thanks his former customers
for the favors he has received.
Said Gould has for sale, an infallible cute for
Weak or Sore Eyes, which on trial, has and will
e found to answer the purpose.—He has it in
vials from one quarter of a dollar to a dollar.—
\vy person trying the above, if not found to
.iiifwer the character giv*en, the money will be
returned. [tf]
Port-au-Prince
St. Euftatia
Chai lefton
Fayal
Montlerrat
St Thomas
Maflachufetts
R. Illand
ditto
St. Croix
Cafco-BayA further Caution.
ALL persons are hereby cautioned from receiv
ing of Thomas Mtchit U Co. or anv other
petfon, l° ur Nbtet of 'Haiid, given by the latej
limes C-ardntr, of Wilmingion, Norih-Caiolina,
to Samuel Jacifin, of Philadelphia, all bearing da.e
the 101 h July, 1785- amounting in the whole to
f. 2,600 13 3 North-Carolina currency; the
»reateft'p"tol which said Note, have been p-id
J , said rhoma, Millie & Co. m pro"' of which
the fuhlcriberf have the depoluion of Mr.
Mmiiul't J.uifin, and other documents which will
fully and clearly illuftrare the matter.
It is therefore expected that this notice, with
the one adverufed in this paper in May and June,
1701, will be a fufficient caution to the public.
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, > Executors.
MAR. R. WILLKINGS, )
irihuiigton, (N. c.) Aug. l, 17g4-
Stayed or Stolen,
FROM the fubf:riber, on the night ot the 18th
instant, from the inclofure of Joh n Clark,
of Trenton Townlliip, Hunterdon county, Nrw
|erfey, a Chefnut Sorrel MARE, about nine yeais
o'd, fourteen and an half hands high, bald taced.
white feet and eyes, a bunch on her left and near
fide, oceafioned by a hurt, small long neck, thin
mane, thortlfh tail, thod all round : Whofoevei
will take up laid Mare, and return her either to
John C l a'h k, of Trenton, Richard Varian,
New-York, or the fubferiber in Danbury, Fair
field county, State of Conneflicut, (hall receive
EIOHT DOLLARS REWARD lor the Marc and
Thief, or FOUR DOLLARS !or the Mare only.
JAMES TROWBRIDGE.
Trrnton, (N. j.) Sept. 18. 17Q2.
New-Brunswick
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circumstances of a gentleman
who had undertaken to difpofeof a propor
tion of the tickets in the New-Brunfwick Church
Lottery, having, in his opinion, rendered it incon
venient for him further to proceed in the sale
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
ets arc unexpe&edly returned to the Rector,
Church-Wardens and Veftry-mcn. This lays the
Managers under the neceflity of further adjourning
the drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of Ottober next, that they may have time to tranf
mif these tickets to the parts of the state where they
ate applied for, and teceive the returns As there
are but few tickets bcfides these remaining on
hand, all persons who are disposed to promote the
pious object of this Lotteiy, or to take a chance
for the prizes therein, are requested to supply them
selves by the firft of Odlober ; and the gentlemen
appointed to dispose of them, are desired to return
those to the Managers which then remain unfold,
to answer the applications of some gentlemen in
the neighbourhood, who are postponed to this re
source for a supply. — And notice is hereby given,
that the tickets not returned to the Managers by
the eighth day of October, will be conftdered as
at the rifle, of the holders.
N. B. Robert Morris, Esq. of New-Brunf
wick, is duly'chofcn one of the Managewof the
said Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law. (eptOi)
100 Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cambiidge Common, MafTachufetts,
on the afternoon of the 18th ult. a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK, with a fte«l clasp, containing
a number of valuable papers, among which were
the following Public Securities, viz.
MalTachufetts State Notes— No. 2,425, dated
December 1, 1782, payable to Thopas Greenwood,
for 23 >6r. principal—No. 22,399, dated Ja
nuary 1, 1785, payable to Nathaniel Partridge, tor
£.10 tot. principal. —No. , dated January
J, 1782, (an army note) payable to Timothy How
ard, for/'. 8 Bs. id. principal.—No. ,'a Note
(the number, date, and to whom payable, not
known) for £.3 os. 3d. principal.—One Indent
Certificate lor Four Dollars, and a New-Hamp
(hire Certificate for about £. 12 payable to John
and Daniel Jenks ; also a number of Notes of Hand,
one of which was for £. 572 given by Nathan
F.ond to Samuel IV. Pomeroy {by whom it was tn
doifed) datrd id May, 1792, and payable 011 the
1 ith August following ; the others were all paya
ble to the Subscriber. The Securities are checked
at the different offices from whence they were
issued, and the Notes of Hand by the different
signers, they can therefore be of no use to any but
the owner.
The Subscriber hereby offers j reward of One
llu ndr ed Do lla r s to any person or persons
■who has found the fame, and will return them to
him, or leave them with the Printer hereof, and
no qucfiions will be afocd.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Salem, Maffachufttts, Augujl 1, t 7 g 2 , (eptf)
Stock Brokers Office,
TN0.45, Grc.it Doek-ftreet, New-Yokk,
HE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begshave 10 offer
his fcrvices to histriends and oihers, in the line
or a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor htm with their buftnefs, may depend upon
having it tranfafted with the utmost fidelity and
dispatch. '
Orders from Philadelphia,Boflon, or any other
part oftnc United States will b f ftriflly attend
ed to. '
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(<■'•)
t
Universal Hymn Book.
Tobe-Soldbv THOMAS DOBSON, and other
ABookfellers in Philadelphia,
Collect ion of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS; felefted from different
Authors, and publifiied by Order of the Con
vent,on holding the Dcflrine of the Salvation of
alijMen, metin Philadelphia, May 25, , 7ql .
Puce of a hnglc book, touad,3-Bths of a Dollar
•with good allowance to those who take quantities
August 4. (eplf ) '
Tat SUBSCRIBERS to lit
Universal Tontine
Are informed, chat a general meeting is to be held
at the State-House in (hiscity, on Satuiday rhe 3d
ci<3y of November next, at 10 o'clock, A. N .
agreeably to the sixth article of their association.
By order of the Agents,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia^Sept.. 1792.. (epi X 3)
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL, HYSON&SOUCHONG,
Of the very firft quality, and latest importation
from Camon, via New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chcfnut and Market Streets.
BOOK S,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
M A T H E VV CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. A M ERI CAN MUSEUM, fiom its commence
ii mcnt in January 1787, to June 1792, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and Uttered,
seventeen dollars and three fifths.
This work, which is now concluded on an im
proved plan, containing the best pieces
and against the proceedings of government,
will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural,and miscellaneous cflays,
as any ever published in America. Perhaps in no
one work are To many valuable documents refpeft
ing ihe history of this country, eolleflcd together.'
His Excellency the President of the United States,
has declared of if, that u a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement."
The fubfeription is two dollars and a haif per
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wish to
be supplied with this work, are requested to give
commission to friends in the city to fubferibe for
and receive if—-Any of the back numbers
may be had in order to complete sets.
£. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on Nurf
;ng and the management of Children.
" We recommend these letters to the perusal of
those to whom they are particularly addrefTcd."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101—Price, bound,
62 cents.
3- Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—so cints.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss
More'sEflays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone on command ot Temper, Mori's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Price a dol
lar and a quarrer.
8. Elements of Moral Sciencc, by James Beat
tie, l. l d. profefTor of moral philofopby and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : " We
have seen nothing on these fubjefts more plain,
more perspicuous, or moregenerallv ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the University in Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-filths of a
dollar.
io. Blair's Sermons. Pricc two dollars,
11. Necker'sTreatifc on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.---Price four-fifths of a dollar.
>2. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bihs of a dollar
13. The Constitutions of thefeveral United States,
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths o<
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
hl?, in quarto— Price, elegantly bound and letter
-50/2—plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecura—Price a
quarter dollar.
19- Think well on'f. Price a quarter dollar,
20. Christian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged-
Price n fixrh of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
wf a dollar.
23- Selefl Poems, chiefly American-.-Price a'
Bxih of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large afTortment of
Books, European as well as American editions
which he will dispose of on the mofl reaforiable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied in
the molt fatisfactory manper. A liheral allowance
' to such as purchafc quantities for public libraries
■ or to (ell acr?in, '
BOWEN's FXHIBITION OF
Wax-Work & Paintings,
A T the House lately occupied by Mrs. Pine
in Eighth-street, is now ready for the en
tertainment of the Public Among a great
vaiiety of Paintings, are a number of
ITALIAN & FRENCH PIECES
which are new and very pleasing. '
Also, a large collection of
NE!V fFAX FIGURE ■]
The Exhibition is open every dav, from nine!
O clock in the morning, until nine in the even-i
l "2,—— Admittance HufaDoli,, forl. a die S !
and Gentlemen, and hajp„ ce f or Children.
tJototLZ th£ feafon ' (not
For Sale, at the Exhibition Room'
LIKENESSES of the PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES, i„ WAX, '
Sept V 2i' ety E!egant PRIN TS in Frames
— (eptf)
tle Tfl >R» SESSION
Nn ' £oyrArL^
152
TERRITORY OF COLUMBIA.
June 28, 1792.
PURSUANT to the la ft Will and Teflament of
the late Rev. Alexander Wil li am son,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurs
day, the 1 ith of October next, at si uohcetown,
00 a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved security, to bear interiftlrom
the date—That valuable S.at of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation ol the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acre*, the greatelt part of which
i rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tt red, and capable of affording a very confiderablc
quantity ct fine meadow ; —Situated about 6 miles
• rom the Federal City,and ;he fame diilance from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remaikable healthy part of the country.
The improvements are, a very elegant two story
tirick Dw&lling Hoyfe, (with four rooms and a
oaffage, or entrv, on a floor) and the necefTary out
houses. HENRY TOWNSEND, )
BENJ. STODDERT, > Executors.
THOMAS JOHNS, )
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA
July 6, 1792.
THE Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-Seat on
Rock Creek, deemed by those who have ex
mined it, equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter of
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile from
the market house in Georgetown, and one mile
from the President's fqua»e, in the city of Wash
ington—on tide water, navigable for veflels of se
veral hundred bushels burthen. — The llream is
fulHcicnt,the year round,to turn four pair of stones,
and the fall may be made from 25 to 30 feet. It
is unnecessary to dwejl on the advantages of such
a situation.
The purchaser may be accommodated with a
few hundred acres of land adjoining the Mill-Seat,
if that should he an objett.
(ep 3 m 14 Jul)
Treasury Department,
Auous i 20th, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propof«ils wil
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury, until the 13th day of Oftobci next
inclusive, for the supply of all rations which may
be required ior the use of the United States, from
thefirftday of January to the thirty-fiift ddV of
December 1793, both days inclusive, at Springfield,
in the State of Maflachufetts, and the Post of Weft-
Point, in the State of New-York.
The rations to be supplied, ara to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
Oae pound of beef, or of a pound of. pork.
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quarl fait, )
Two quarts of vinegar, (
Two pounds of soap, (P" 100 ra!,ons -
One pound of candles, j
The proposals mav be made for both of the
Posts, or separately, for Spring
field and Weft-Point.
War Department,
August 6, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given tb all the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
(he sums to which they are intitied for fix months
of their annual pension. from the 4th day of March
17921 and which will become due on the sth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the said day
by the Commiflioners of the Loans withtn the
Slates refpe&ively, under the ufu.al regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mud be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
:fl. The certificate given by the ftate,fpecifying
that the person posse fling the fame is.in ta& an in
valid, and afcei taining the sum to which as such he
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before mc> one of the Juflices of the
county of in the Jlate. of and made oath that
he is the fame A. B. to whom the original certificate
in his pojjcffion was given, 0} which the following is
a copy (the certificate given by the Jlate to be recited)
That he served (regiment, cor pi or vefjelj at
the time he was disabled, and that he now rcfides in
the and county of ■ and has jejided
therefor the lafl years, previous to which he re
sided in
In cafe an invalid fbould apply for payment by
an attorney, the said attorney, bcfides the certifi
cate and oaih before recited, mull produce a spe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the following
form :
I I, A. B. of county of Jlate of do
hereby conjlitute and appoint C. D. oj 'my lawjul
attorney x to receive in my behalf oj my pension
f or J lx months, as an invalid of the United States,
from the fourth day of March, one thou fund seven
hundred and ninety-two, and ending the fijth day oj
September, one thoufandfeven hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and fealert
j in the prefencc of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and ad miniflrator
must be accompanied with legal evidence of then
reipettive offices, and also of the lime the invalids
died, whofc perifion they may claim.
By command of the
Prcfident of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary oj War.
The Printers in the refpe£live States are
requefteci to publtfh the above in their newfpa
ers, for the space of two months.
TO BE SOLI) liY THE EDITOR,
AN ALPHABETICAL LIST of the Duties
payable on ail Goods, Wares and Merchan
dize irti ported into the United States ; exhibiting
the Rates payable on those imported in Ships 01
V eileis ot the United States, and in Foreign Ships
or Veflels; including the additional Duties to
which the Articles are liable.
ALSO,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold—
graduated according to Lav*_ Blank ManifefU--
And Blanks for the various Powers o* At:o»nev
neceiTary in tranlailing Bunnefs at the Ttcafjiy ot
at the Bank of the United States
G-? Tlli hitj 9r of tits Gatetk i m-: ,th,
all those of Us Sul'fcriben, whof'e a :au nU «„■ „/
two or, thru yars yfa thm •
as pojfibte.
AUperJcv) emppwereijo colled moiirs fortieth,
to whom pa-,mints have been made, would ( {/, '
hmi) transmitting the Jam, received, .vdth, MKI t
the Jubfcriben who have paid.
While every grateful acknowledgment is due to (4f r (
whofc punctuality has enabled the Editor thus far
continue the publication-kt is obliged to rifene, (tj ,
is the expenct attending pro/ecu,m, Ld f,
large the amount ofarrearages, that untefs a cmjii at ■
He pan Ojthat amount u JpcedUy realized, it «,!/1,.
impcflMejor him to continue tl, Caz,:te uuth any
ference to a d'pnt and extrjue circulation.
proposals
FORPRtNTIMCIV Sua«<iillfTloK
An ELEGANT EDITION of Hit'*
SACRED SCRIPTURES
Of the OLD and NE W.TESTAMENTS,ViIIi Y|jfc
AHOCRYfH/1,
On a very large avd bear,!,Jul new T)be, and Jute, fa
Paper.
THE great importance of the Holy Scriptures
interelbng to every individual; the divine e*ce|.
ience ol its doftrint s and precepts, and the beal
and sublimity of its pafT.ges, have so long made ii
a capital object of attention, as to preclude occa
lion or opportunity for eulogium.
The piety or enterprize of individuals has pre
fentcd this invaluable book to tile public in a va
riety ot forms ; in some editions it has been highly
embellilhed with superb engravings, which ha»e
greatly enhanced its price ; in others it has been
accompanied with voluminous commcnianef,
whicjl nece (Tartly encreafed the file; while a va.!
riety of plain cheap copies have generally diffjufed
the knowledge of the Scripture, and made the
purchase easy to every class.
Without wiftiing in the smallest dejgreeto lefffn
the merits of the various editions, whether plain
or ornamented, which the public ate already in
polTeflion of, it is oertineni to remark, tha> very
many readers of ufteand judgment have exprtikd
a wifti for a Family Bible unencumbered with ad
ditions. Thete still appears room for another
edition on a beautiful new 'ype, fupcrior in (ut
and elegance io any bible that has yet been primed
in the Englilh language, and which, leaving tfS
adventitious circumllances of ornament or com.
ment, may exhibit the Oracles cf God in iheir na
tive (implicit)'.
B. STODDERT.
5 And God said,
d Let there be light: and
there was light.
With refpeftf.ul fubmiflion to the judgment and
candour of the public, the following propofais are
offered :
I. The work. (ball be printed with the greatefi;
fidelity and attention to corre&nefs both in the
text and marginal references, on a fuperfine Paper
made on purpose, with an elegant new Type cafl
for the work of the size of the above Specimen.
IT. The work will be eomprifed in twenty
number.*, making two elegant volumes in Folio;
to be furnifhed to fubfoibers at one dollar each
number. To prevent any complairits of want of
pun&uality, no part of the work Wll be delivered
unless paid for.
111. The fiift number, conrainiing sixty folio
cl« gantly printed, will be furnifhed on the
firft Saturday of July next, when fubferibers are
to pay the pricc of the firft and fecodd numbers,
and the price of one number to be always in ad
vance till the work is completed. The subsequent
numbers to be publ:(hcd regularly on the firft Sa
turday of each succeeding month, till the whole
is finifhed.
( Subscriptions will be received in Philadel
j phia by the PubliOieis, Thomas Dosson, No.
SouthSecond-ftreef, and John Parker, No. 259,
: North Second-street ; <u>d by all ihe jjooklellera :
in Charleston, by William P. Young ; Richmond,
by Aichibald Curric ; Baltimore, by Jarne- Rice;
Wilmington, by P'-tcr Brynbcrg ; New-York, by
Thomas Allen; New-Haven, by I'faac B«rs;
Providence, (R. I.) by William Wilkmfon; Sa
lem, by Thomas Cuftiing ; Boston, by David
Weft, Benjamin Guild, and Thomas & Andrew^.
George-Town.
A Number of LOTS in every situation which
/ A. may be c'efired in City of Washington*
will be offered tor sale bv the Commilßoncrs, on
Monday the Brh day of October next. opefou/ihopefou/ih
part of the money to be paid down, the rtHouf in
three equaf annual payments, with yearly interel
on the whole principal unpaid.
' ' JOHN' M'GAXTT,Cerk
to the
[eptf]
Witnejjes.
Sold by the
nOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, (J.
&T A convenient House, in or near theccnlrdj
he City.— Enquire of the Editor.
<pV The Index d*4 Titli-Pa" J"
Thi, d Volume ef this Gazette, trc now read) I'
deliicred to thoje who intend to bind that * 0 urnc.
IKsT The p'ice of this Gazelle is Tkr " D L f"' f '
anm«?—£'•. • HtfU be pud at the time cf/uhjcl' ■
September 29, 1792
Grand Family Bible.
SPECIMEN OF THE TYPE.
June 2, 1 792
PLANS
OF THE
City of WafluHgtofijr
WANTED-TO RENT,
From rhe last of October next,
■'j