C§sZ£#o (fit
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNFSDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 6q. HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 50, of Vol. IV.]
ADORESS
€jthe Editor of the Federal and
Philadelphia Uau.y A d v t k i - i s f. k ,
To the Citizens of the United St at a of\
tHil'lCU
THIS Gazette, though on ptiallv priblifhrd un-j
tier ci»'<umftance.s of difcouragmg perplexity,'
has, with the lifipg toitune ot our coun'ry, gra
dually risen to an eminence far beyond the Editor's
expectations.
Encouraged by a generous public, whose rights
ibis paper lias ever been ready to defend, and
whom >t his tiom tunc to time endeavor- d to
lerre, as a tnendly monitor against thole evils toj
which other nations are expoled, it has " grown
with its growth, and itrengthened with its
itrenelh ; rt and this day tiie ninth volume (in
compliance with the wiftics of many vefue&able
citizens) comuientes, on royal paper, ot a fupcrior
quality, and more than double the fixe of that on
which it was fir ft printed in the year 1788.
By the present alteration (which precludes,
however, any farther change) the Editor will be
enabled to gratify the public, with a more copious
fele&ion of 'articles of domeltic and Foreign intel
ligence—an accurate detail of the debates and pro
ceedings of Corigrefs—a faithful representation of
the progress ot agriculture, manufactures, arts ;mtU
sciences, throughout the Union—and a ufelul
neation of the chara&er, power, policy, inftitu
rions, and manners of other nations. With a
study proportionate to his conviction of their use- |
fulnefs. he will early announce to the merchants
the multifarious events that concern them. The!
arriva'is and departures of vcflels—the course of
exchange—the prices current of merchandize and
of stocks—the regulations of trade—each in its
proper will be care<ullv exhibited, with as
great a degree of accuracy as the moil unremitting
Attention can ensure.
It is an advantage peculiar to the Federal Ga-
zette, which cannot b<* too highly estimated, and
which the Editor adds with gratitude to the pre-
sent enumeration, that it is made the medium of
publishing authentic copies of the laws of
the United States, under the authority of the pro
per officer, as soon as the adfcs have received the
legislative fantlion.
Intended as a faithful guardian of the sacred
rights of the community, this paper was warmly
and liberally zealous for the efbhlifhment of that
noble monument of modem civilization, the Con
stitution of the United Spates; and having seen it
fafe from the attacks of its various opponents, and
fucct fsfullv carried into etft-ct, this Gazette, with
equal solicitude for that Conftirutton, will con
stantly endeavor to remove whatever might im
pede its firm ellabiilhment in the hearts and affec
tions of Americans. A Heady advocate for the
diminution of the debts ot the country—for the
support of iis credit—and the general dif
fufion of its happiness, the Editor Hatters himOeff
he has contributed bis mite towards the extension
of those sentiments that arc likely to promote mea
sures so fa lot ary : and it is his intention to ihow
equal fidelity, in the maintenance of order and
thefuppoit of good government, on the one hand,
and genuine liberty and lepnblicanitm, on the
other.
Upop this plan, and with* those views, it is
fondly hoped- that the Federal Gazette may serve
as a faithful hillorv of the taius—a complete town
and country remitter—and a valuable repofnorv of
uCeful and intcirtting information, totally divested
of the v lolence—- the lliibctality - —the iictntiouf
nefs of party.
As the Ed tor flatters himf<?lt that a rftrofpt&fve
consideration o' his conduct and fucc< fs wotild aT-
Jord the best afTuianrc lor the futu-e peiformance |
ot his enganem -nts, he omi eivcs it would neither
be proper nor is it iiecefTuY, to speak of the in
creafin? pooulavrv of litis the great
imp., (lbn that is ftri.ck off daily, '> s
rrus liierarv and other coriefpondeu's, mud na&e
these Uonoiahtc cifcumttoiv-cs ( i iuicntly c^aipi
cuous. j r
In a paper of such general circulation, advei t Mo
ments have viftMc advantages; and their e r\y\
and corfett Viwertion ihall always be an obj tl
ltrift attention.
With fent'iments of gratitude for the liberal en
couragement of the pa ft, and with atTarances of
exer'ion to def.-rve fut-'port in the future, the fub
icubei »• ma,ins the faithful and devoted fcrvaiu of
the puhhc, ANDREW BROWN,
Editor and Proprietor of the Federal Gazette,
ana PhtMat/phia Daily AdiOtiJir'.
Philadelphia, IJi'Sepl. 1792
Subs.li iptions ' t Six Dollar) per annum, to >•••
paid in advance) advoiitfcmeuts, essays, and atti
clesol intelligence, for '!"■ rapei fpolt p-id) ate
received at tlie Piiniirig-Otfice of I lie Fideral Ga.
retteand Pfevj idctplna Daily Advctifi-r, a- Wafh
ingtnn's Head, Cbelmit-ftrect, Philadelphia.
Slibfcripfcions and adv»i tlienl (its aie ji!o rteetved
hL the ioilowvug jjl ce.v, viz
At B'ewllrr's tavi in, P' rlfinqoth, Nc<» -Himp
; Co!i man'sCotlce-Houk, BoltMalC'chu-
U;ts ; Town! Mill's tavern, New poit,Rliode-Illmd ;
Hull's tavern, Haiif"rd, Oinnefctirut-j the P ift-
Otfice, Bennington, Vermont ; Bradtord's t ottee-
House, New-Yoik; Drake's tavern, Trenton,
New-lerfey; Brfntm.'s tavern, Wilmington, D--
lawatt ; Grant'- lavern, Baltimore, Maryland;
the Eagle tave.i.. K • Iwhnnd, Virginia : J'ocltn &
J)r Heibe's CofT< ertouff, Wilmirigtop, N. Carolina;
Willi Jms's Cfiffee-H nifr, Charleston, S. Carolina ;
and at r.ioun's Coffee-Houfe, Savannao. Geoigia.
Tins Gazette is, b\ every pcfi, forwarded
to, rcgutjrly tiled, and may be conftantl) fi.cn at
cach ol the abimraeiuwncd places.
Wednesday, September 12,1792.
FROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE if the UNION
(concluded.)
The conchfion : Iking m'/cel/aveouf thoughts on the
government.
THE independency of the judiciary, as well
in the tenu e ot' their stations as in the
permanency of their compensations, under the
federal conflitution, and most of those of the
states, is an advantage over the ancient repub-
lies and the generality of modern governments,
of inestimable value in regard to liberty and
property.
The United States, being without transma
rine or dominions, are exempted from
two inconveniencies, which have resulted from
them.—An imrnenfe naval force has been found
neceffarv to defend such territories, and protetl
the trade with them in a time of war, and the
difficulty of deviling for them a free lejiilation
has hitherto proved insurmountable. The Bri
tish nation declared, that they had a right to
lsgiflate for their colonies and dominions in
America, Asia, and Africa, in all cases whatso
ever, and the revolution of the United' States,
tn-ned «r»on that cardinal point.
iipb.'erve that she Frtmch nation, devoted a
Sliey are to the puWuit of liberty, have not yet
been able to devise any fyitem of governmen
for their colonies without a dernier resort to
the legislature of France, it will" be a lource oJ
comfortable reflexion to the friendr, of free
and efficient government in these state«, thai
we ara not perplexed by the neceility of so de-
licate, important, and difficult an operation.
It has been unfortunate for moil nations as
well ancient as modern, that they have had 110
fettled pre-exilling mode of altering, amending,
or renovating their political Ivllem, to which
they could resort without a deviation from the
legal courle of thing' hazarding the public
tranquility, and often freedom itfelt.—lt is
equally happy tor the people of the United
States, that in their federal government, and
in most of the dates, there exists a provision,
by which those neceltary and defirableends may
be obtained, with whatever zeal without recur-
ing to irregularity or violence.
principles being already fettled by common con
sent, and duly recorded in the conltitutions, the
people cannotlongmiftake the nature of amea
fure, u law, or a poiiticßl maxim, which is
ally opposed to them ; and when their judgment
is decided upon any one or more derelictions ot
those principles, of magnitude fufficient to in-l
dilce an effort tor reform, their will cannot bei
fuccefsfully resisted. The consequence of this
state of things will be, that the mass of error
will not easily accumulate so as to become in-
fnpportable, being kept down by thele orderl;
natural exertions of the community to relievi
themselves at an earlier stage of inconvenience
Too great a facility to change would, however
>e likely to produce fluctuation 1 ; injurious ti
>rder, peace, property, and indoftry, if not t(
iberty itlelf: but as the mode of performinj
he amendatory or alterative operations isflow
lid consequently deliberate, light or dangerou
changes would be very difficult to accompliA)
n this view there appears to be very littl
irobability, that changes from free or repre
entative government, will take place, or the
my modification of hereditary power will isi
ntroduced into the government either ol thi
Utes or of the union. Tbe people wi]l neve
teliberately cOnftht tp the abrogation of tli o
Vaufes in the feViral constitutions, which ex
ilicitly provide both in general Keriru, and ii
lirticular detail, lor.free or republican govern
nent: nor does.it ptifitlering th(
! ;orcc: o?perfe£ttort we have obtained and tin
roiiltant and moderate operations of the amen
latory claul'es, to accumulate fufficient publi
:vil or grievance to produce one of those con
/ulfions, which the ambitious are wont to feiz
is the moment to introduce by force, a defpo
ic government. Even local circumstance
:onfpire to favor the permanency of liberty ii
hefe states. Being too remote fiom any so
■eign nation, to tender a war,. requiring a grea
trmy> at all neceifary, that iiiftrunient,fooftei
-.fed by ambitious leaders, is not likely to >
ilaced within the reach of the enemies of free
lom, while the union remains entire. It i
vorthy of the mod particular observation am
emembrance, that a dissolution of our govern
nent would immediately open a door to thi
tanger, as the several states or little confede
acies, would each deem it prudent to maintai:
i larger army than is now requisite for thi
i,hole. The liiitory of Greece will inftrufl- u
hat by this, more than by any otKer poffibl
neafure, we Ihould be prepared for the milita
y domination of lome modern Philip, or lbm<
lew Alexander. A strong union and a tranqui
iberty would be mifcrably exchanged for fuel
i {late of things,
It is an evident truth that the penal laws o
hefe states, have beenkraduaily mitigated fines
he opocha of their incKpendence ; and it is nc
el's true, that the number of crimes does not
lear so great a proportion to the population,
was formerly the cafe, though an universal
elaxation of the police took place in the late
var. It is, perhaps, an ill iymptom of the date
f things, in a society, when mild laws, ftriflly
117
executed, are incompetent to the prefervat.ion
of order ard public happiness. Our penalcodei
are. upon the whole, anjong the least
ry ; and it is believed, they are not cruel, even
in those unhappy cases, which impel com
munitv to extremities. The constitution o<
the United States has extracted all the gall
from the punifiiment of offences against the na
tional fafety, by corre?&ing the rower of lep.i'
Jating concerning them with a niildnefs un
known to the fvltems of most countries. It i
honorable to the humanity and magnanimity o
the American people, that this proceeding flow
: d from them, almo'i unanimoudy, four year*
ifter the revolution war. Future ages will dc
juitice to a nation capable oi such an effort al
i moment so particular.
Taking the United States at large, there are
ew or no countries in which at this time, the
uft demands of private creditors can be ob
ained by a more certain, a more expeditious,
>r less expensive course ot legal process.
There are some local, and a very few general
gft&s yet existing ; but they are vaniftiing be
ore the ipirit of the general and most ot the
tate constitutions. There is no part of the
mblic conduit more striking than the firmnefs
vith which they have applied the caustic to
tera e tancer.% which had b - 1 «
;d tc they - pecuniary lyftem, principally from
.the -"'titious causes. It proves thecxiftence ot
:hat v irtue and fortitude, which qualify a nati
•n ibr republican government. 1 here aie lome
•xceptionable circumftanres yet to be done a
vav ; but the fucceisful eiiov ts which have been
nade, juftify a c onfident expectation, that they
V'i 11 n Id ere lop£ to the powers ar,d influences
vWich have eradicated much greater evii', of
\t lariie kind. j
When vr:
ON SEEING SOME CHILDREN AT .
SICHING I fee yon litlle troop at play;
By [orrow yet untouch'd ; unhurt by caic ;
While free and fpomvc they enjoy to day,
Content and earelefs of to-rnonow's fare !
O happy nge ! when Hope's unclouded ray
Lighi» their green path, aud prompts their fim
r-le mii'lh,
Fundamental
Th'-j' Ua* thin us thai lurking lay
Tv vound ilie wtctched pilgrims of the eatth
: i" rue the v jur that >:av« them biah,
Auti threw them on a world io foil of pain,
Where prosperous folly treads on patient woith
And to deaf pride misfortune pleads in vain
Ah ! for their future fare how many fears
Opprc is iny heart—and fill tny eyei» with tears !
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE liK 11 ED STATES.
No. VII. I
REPRESENTATIVES in COKGKtSS.
Ttte importance of ele&ing men as rep'.efen
tatives hi Congress, who are firm friends
t» tbe present Co»4kitntior of the United States,
has been hinted si* i" the course of these ptibli-
cations. W'her. we take a retrofpeftive view
i f the circum fiances and iituation oi the Union
at large, and of this Commonwealth in particu
lar, and compare the pre'ent state of things
with this retrofpef", it would hardly seem i ecef-
I'ary to suggest the idea to the people, that federal
men, and Jcdcral measures, have done all that
:s been done—and that to feture and perpetu
ate -;:e bleffngs ef peace, credit and freedom, I
fedc ul men alone fliould be the object of atten
tion to I' c ficq citizen* of this State at the er
fuing ele&ion. —No State in the Union has more
to hope or to fear than Pennsylvania, from thqfe
mea'ures of government which shall be adopted
by the thi d Congress. Her local lituation
makes her in some measure the pivot of tho e
scales in which the fate of the U: ted States is
placed. By those wife and energetic measures
of the general government, which have been
adopted, an alteration has taker place in her
circumstances so much for the better, that every
mind divested of prejudice, and the venom oi
partv, is allonifhed at its contemplation. There I
is nointereft or profeflion in the State whatever,
which has not felt the aufpicions influence of
those menfure-—mealures which were eflefted
: by the federal part of the legislature in opposition
■ to the unremitted exertion* of those of a cliifer
; ent complexion—in oppoftion to the knovn,
: because often exprefled opinions of men, who
; are at this moment held tip as tai.d dates for
• the futfrages of this federal city and common
wealth.—lt is often fpecioiiflv observed, that it
is best to have'men of different fenMments in a|
legislative affembl) —that the coliifion of opi
nions serves to produce a more jtift decilion in
the end. Bet, under this pietext, there is the
greatcft danger of introducing characters who
would rejoice in the'opportunity of lubverting
the Conitltution, and reducing thele Oates to
their late abject and deplorable condition.—
There is no danger *>f tiuih'i dying for want ot
exercise. The world is lo full of* fyftem-mon |
gers, that there is commonly as many nioder, of
doing bufmefs suggested, as there are persons
I concerned, or have a voice in d:xe&in& it.—
SONNET.
— -*■«>- we e
[Whole No. 5^2.]
Some fay that it*Congrefs is composed of ft.de
ralifts only, there wifibe none to watch then*.
What fort of watchmen the lukewarm friend: ,
and the open enemies of the Constitution, havr
(hewn thenifelves to lie, let past experience tes
tify. Had the national legiftature heretofore
confided of a larger majority ®f federal charac
ters, it is evident to a demonstration that the
public huffmefs might have been tranfa&cd in
one half the time which was confirmed.
There is a general remark which I have
leard fuggeftcd, that if true, ought to be taken
ito cor, fide ration by theele&ors—and that is.
the weight of abilities throughout the union is with ti>r
JcderaiiJls, by a verx great preponderation —lor tho'
it is acknowledged that some of those in opposi
tion to the government and it? measures, are
men of talents, yet the number is very filial*-
but two or three such, having as yet been pro
duced by the whole continent 011 the public
heat re.
The people ought not to elect an antifederal
character to represent them in Congress; fucli
conduct would be no wiser than that of a com
mander of a fliip, who fhonld enter a sailor tiiat:
would take the fii lt opportunity to bore a hole
in the veflel's bottom.
-Foreign Affairs.
PAIII S, June 22.
THE Jacobin* are exerting every
nerve to recover their power by
inflaming the populace, but there is
no doubc government will now go oa
with order and firmnefs.
A Persian atftrefs here, of a inoft
beautiful person, is to have her head
cut off in the course of the week, for
issuing falfe afiignats. Every one la
ments her fatal destiny in the molt
pathetic manner. Her lover fufFers
with her for being an accomplice in
the bufineft.
Yellerday M. Petion waited on the
King, and drove hard to make his
majesty believe, that during the ever
memorable 20th of this month, the
constitution had not been in the least
particular violated, and thai every
iefpet r t which could be expetfted, had
been iliewn to him and the roysl fa
mily. The King anfweredy " Yoji
; have entirely infringed the conftitu-
tion so far as relates to the refpetft
due to my person. Were 1 weak
enough to cdnfefs the contrary, the
breaking open of nine different doors
to come to my apartments, by a furi
ous populace, would denionftrate that
1 had advanced a pusillanimous falfe
hood." M. Petion attempted to make
some oblervatiens, the King infilled
on his being silent. The national
guards are Hill under arms, altho'
no danger is apprehended for the
present moment. The Jacobins are
feathering fire and flames again 11 M.
de la Fayette, on account of the letter
which he had, they fay, the audacity
to write agninft their club, in which
he desired that it might be abolished.
Yesterday there was delivered to
the aliembly, the following letter
from the King :
" The National Aflembly is alrea
dy apprized of the events of yester
day. No doubt l'aris is full of con
-11 ei nation. I leave to the prudence
of the afiembly the management of
rhe conftitutiori, and alio the indivi
dual liberty of the hereditary repre
sentative of the people.
France will, with grief, learn what
has happened. /\s to me, nothing
{hall hinder me i'lom lteadily purl'u
ing, without the lead diftrult, the
views which are directed by the con
iiitution which 1 have iworn to main
tain, and to obtain thol'e ends which
it prescribes.
1 (Signed) LOUIS."
The callle of Bannes is re-taken,
the rebels having surrendered at dif
cietion. Du Saillan, and lonie of A the
other ringleaders, have, howe\er,
found means to el'cape.
Particular Detail of ths lrruptioti into the
7buiUerics by th* Paris Mob; on H'ed
nefday I act.
1 he King agreed, conformably to
the conftilbtion,. to i eceive a deputa
tion of 20 peril i s, and pointed out
J1 ./•t
h'unfelf the manner in which they
(hould be introduced. They were
topafs through thegate des Feuillans,
and go out of the gate du Menage.
These orders of the King wt re-Tent
to tlie commander in chief, who op
posed to them the orders received
from the municipality, enjoining him
to receive, under the Itaudard of tile
national guards, people ot all deno
initiations, drefled in all kinds of uni
forms, and provided wish any kind
of arms.
The pikemen in their, march had
taken the declaration of rights, which
■was carried before them. The co
lours of the Baftile, and the men of
the 14th of Jelv appeared among
them. For a banner they had an old
pair of breeches, from the mob per
haps being called here, " Sans Cu
lottes."
By three o'clock they, had defiled
through the hall of the Afl'embly, in
the rear of the palace, through the
garden, the guard having refui'ed to
oppose them, and rotind by theOuay
to the place de Carofel, in front of
the Chateau. Here they were joined
by eight pieces of cannon, and two
caid'ons ofammuriition. After half an
hourfpent in parleying, the entrance
being refufed them, they proceeded
to force. The commandant of the
guard required authority from the
Mayor and municipality to repel them,
but was refufed. The matches were
lighted, and every thing seemed to
prelude a formal battle, when the of;
ficer returned to annonncehis having
received no orders. The gates were
instantly forced, no refinance being
made, and the people in thousands
precipitated into the palace : the
doors at the entrance of the king and
queen's apartments beingclofed,with
out waiting to have them ppened,
they shattered them to pieces.
The queen retired to a second a
partnient with the dauphin in her
arms, and threw herfelf upon the
protection of a reserve of grenadiers
of the national guard. Here a third
door was broke open. The crowd
became so great, that with difficulty
the queen found a corner of the win
dow to escape from the great press.
Here, exposed to all the gross and
vile language that imagination can
conceive, (he was obliged to remain
for several hours during which they
presented her and the dauphin with
a national cockade, which she imme
diately wore.
During this scene, another of a dif
ferent nature went forward in the
king's apartment : one of the chiefs
of this mob preCented the King a red
bonnet, adorned with national cock
ades, and demanded the retraction of
the Veto which the King has placed
on the decree against the priests, and
for the establishment of a camp. His
answer was noble and manly ; " If
the welfare of the nation consists in
wearing a red cap, I have no objec
tion to wearing it. Pure in my con
science, I have no dread—as ro the
decrees, this is no time to speak of
them !"—Some one having remarked
that he was afraid, he seized the hand
of a grenadier near him, and clap
ping it upon his heart, he Paid, " Tell
rne, my friend, does my heart beat
like a man in fear ?" He immediately
seated himfelf between the windows
of his apartment, that looked towards
the Thuilleries, and put on a red cap.
One of the mob offered him a glass
to drink the health of the nation ; he
accepted it, and drank it without
seeming to have the finalleft appre
henGon.
The crowd began to press upon
liim. A national guard was nearlv
forced out of his place, near his ma
jelly. " The King," cries this brave
fellow, '( is our fafeguard, I would
not desert him, for a hundred thou
sand crowns !" A municipal officer
attempted to speak, but could not be
heard. Several members made the
fame attempt without success.
M. Santerre then tried what he
could do ; a roar ensued, of " Long
live Petion ! Long live the good, the
worthy Petion !" The gootf, the wor
thy Petion then addressed the King.
" The people (fays he) have appear
ed with dignity, and with dignity
they will depart. \'our majesty mav
niake yourfelf easy." Santerre or
dered the deputation to come for
■ward.
The fpokefnian according!* de
manded chat t'lie patriotic iiiiiiifters
be re inflated—that the Veto be re
rraifted relative to the two obnoxious
decrees
The King anfweved :
" i have fwoni to maintain the
conHiturion, and J will defend it at
the risk of my life."
Clamours were renewed of" Long
live the nation ! Long live Sans Cu
loi:ts ! Long live liberty ! No Veto !
The eyes of the leaders of the mob,
and of many of the mob themselves,
glistened with rage. " Long live
Santei re* !" A grenadier attempted
to quiet them, the Prince told Jlim,
" Let them aloue, my friend ; let
their words be ever so injurious, it is
all the fame to me."
By this time several deputies, alarm
ed at the (late of the Royal .Family,
had aflembled, and a deputation of
24 members was named to surround
the person of the King, and to be re
placed every half hour by a frelh de
putation, so as to inform the afiembly
of the Hate of his majesty. M. Pe
tion arrived about the lame time with
the deputation. The people Itill con
tinue their clamours, for the restora
tion of the late ininiftry, and the sanc
tion of the decrees ; but in vain ; the
King retained the fame manly firm
nefs and conversed with the deputa
tion without the smallest appearance
of inquietude. By persuasions and
intrearies, the mayor and four of the
deputies prevailed upon the people to
withdraw. They had palled all over
the palace, the roofs were covered
with the multitude, they hungin duf
fers to the windows ; and except the
breaking of some doors and windows,
no other mifchief was done, no acci
dent even ensued.
Towards night fall tlie Palace was
entirely cleared, the deputies, had
previously profited of an interval in
the affluence of tlie crowd, and con
/fueled the King to his bed chamber.
Towards ten o'clock all was qniet ;
the citizens all retired peaceably to
their respective homes and the night
was pafl'ed in the utmofi tranquility.
* M. Santerre is a brewer.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
July iy.
LETTER FROM M.LA FAYETTE TO TtfZKiXG
"sire,
" I have the honor to fend
Majesty the Copy of a letter to the
National Aflembly, in which your
Majelty will find the expression of sen
timents that have animated my whole
life. The King knows with what ar
dor, with what constancy, I have been
at all times devoted to the cause of
Liberty, to the (acred principles of
humanity, equality, and justice. He
knows that I was always the adver
sary of !• acftions, the enemy of licen
tiousness, and that no power which 1
thought unlawful, was ever acknow
ledged by me. He knows my devo
tion to his Constitutional Authority,
and my attachment to his person!
Such Sire, are the balls of my letter
to the National Aff'embly ; such will
be those of my conduct' towards my
country and your Majesty, amid the
ltorms which so many combinations,
hostile or fatftious, strive to draw up
on us. r
." Ir belongs not to me, Sire, to
give to my opinions or my measures a
higher degree of importance than the
unconnected arts of a fnnple Citizen
ought to possess ; but the expleffion
ot my thoughts was always aright,
arid on this occasion becomes a duty •
and although I might have fulfilled
this duty sooner, if, instead of being
to be heard from the midst of a catnp
my voice had been to iflue from (he
retreat from which I was drawn by
the dangers of my country, I do not
think that any public function, any
personal consideration, releases me
trom exercising this duty of a citizen,
this right of a Freeman.
Perfifl, Sire, strong in the autho
rity which the National Will has de
egated to you, in the generous refo
ution of defending the principles of
the Constitution against all their ene
|- et 'his Resolution, support
ed bv all the atfts of your private life
as by a firm and full exercise of the
Royal Power, become the gaere of
harmony, which, above all i n the mo
'r"« 8 A fCrlfis ' ca " not to be efta
between the Representatives
118
eletfied by the people, and their he
reditary Representative. It is in this
Resolution, Sire, that for your coun
try and for yourfelf arc glory and
fafety. '1 hereyou will find the friends
of Liberty—all good Frenchmen,
ranged around your Throne, to de
fend it againlt the machinations of
the rebellious, and the enterprizes of
the factious. And I, Sire, who, in
their honorable hatred, have found
the reconipence of my persevering
opposition—l will always merit it by
my zeal to serve the cause to which
my whole life is devoted, and by my
fidelity to the oath which I have ta
ken to the Nation, the Law and the
King.
" Such, Sire, are the unalterable
sentiments—os which I subjoin the
homage and that of my respect.
(Signed) " LA FAYETTE."
Letter from the King of the French (in
hii own hand) to Marjhal Lucknsr,
June 30.
" I received with pleasure the ac
count that you give me of theftate of
the troops, and of their dispositions.
1 entreat you to express to the com
missioned and uon-commifGoned offi
cers and privates my sensibility for
the marks of interest and attachment
which they have given me in thepre
fent circumrtances. Tell them that
my part is finally taken, that I (hall
never change ir, and that 1 am ready
to perilii with them in the fuppoit of
the liberty and independence of our
'country. Ido not doubt but they
participate in my sentiments. As to
you, Martha], you have given too ma
ny proofs of your attachment to the
conltitution to doubt of your wish for
the 1 e-eftablifhment in the kingdom
of the public peace, and the authori
ty of the laws.
(Signed) LOUIS.
An exact copy, ALEX. BERTHIER
Second letter jrim the King to Marjha,
Luckntr.
" I unfterdand, Monsieur, that ma
ny general officers, and others, em
ployed in your army, desire to give
in their resignation. In our present
circumflances you will, no doubt,
make use of all the authority which
your conduit and principles give you,
to represent to them how pernicious
to the public cause such conducft would
be. Their attachment to me is ano
ther powerful reason which ought to
engage them to remain in thefervice,
and to second my unalterable resolu
tion to defend our country againftall
its enemies.
(Signed) LOUIS.
An exatftcopy, ALEX. BERTHIER.'
PROCLAMATION OF THE KING.
" fr renchmen cannot hear without
concern, thata multitude, cxcited by
fomefactious persons, came with arms
in their hands into the King's palace,
drawing a piece of cannon even into
the guard-room ; that they broke
open the doors of his apartment with
axes, and there audaciously abusing,
by afluming the name of the nation,
attempted to obtain by force the sanc
tion which his Majelty had conftiiu
tionally refufed tp two decrees.
" T he King opposed to the mena
ces and insults of these factious per
sons only his conscience and his love
for the public weal.
" The King does not know at what
point they would flop; but he thinks
it right to inform the French nation,
that violence, to whaterer excess it
may be carried, shall never tear from
him his consent to whatever he fliall
think contrary to the public interest.
He exposes, without regret, his own
peace, and his personal fafety ; he
gives up even without pain, the en
joyment of the rights which belong
to all men, atid which the law ought
to refpetfi in him as well as in all ci
tizens ; but, as the hereditary repre
sentative of the French nation, he has
severe duties to fulfil, a „d thousli he
will make the facrifice of his own re
pose, he will not facrifice his duties
! If those who wi(h to overthrow
the monarchy have need of one crime
more, they may commit it. In the
crilis in which he finds himfelf, the
King will, to the lad moment, give
co all the conftituied powers, the ex
ample of that courage and firmnefs
which can alone sav e the empire. In
consequence he orders all the admin-
ift/ative and innnicip a ] \ ..
watch over the lives a „i >•
of the people.
" Give " at p aris, the 22 j „f ,
1792, the 4th year ot'Lih '
(S«gned) ' Lop' I ''
And under ~ X^ 1 --
__i n -Kli!£R
THE minister at WAV
Tranfmitred copies of r
ter. received from
It appeared from tliefe ,h , ner
feut M. Beauharnois l0p! [ e ha '
der io make an oral rep ort or
cumftances that obli ee d hec "
treat ; and he laid n arr , , to '«
"pon the conduct of h e Br U '? r fttt!
who, instead of rising
French, had frequently fi r
his pat roles; and also u.L ,h /• p0r '
■agamftme : (No ! No 1 N 0 n l
thought myfelf obliged to all I
have done, for the honor I
for the fafety of France"-* d **»
LONDON, July 2,
The paragraphs lately inlerted in
several papers have had the effec't to
be nnfappr eh ended perhaps intend
ed by the authors of thein.
Yesterday morning Lord Lauder
dale, attended by the right, hon. C
J. Fox as his second, and Cenerai
Arnold with Lord Hauke, as his
si lend, had a meeting in a field near
Kilburn-Well, to terminate a miOin
derltand.ng which it was found i m .
poliible to conciliate.
J he principals, with their seconds
and lurgeons.arriv'd upon theg-ound
about 7 o'clock, occupying a p o st.
coach and two poft-cbaifes. Having
taken their stations, Lord Lauder
dale refuted to toss up for the firft
site, or to fire at the fame time with
Gen. Arnold. As the General iho't
himfelf injured, his Lordlhip infilled
upon receiving the firft fire.
Gen. Arnold fired, happily with
out efFetfl, on which Lord Lauder
dale declared, that he could now with
honor acknowledge, that he might
have been mistaken in his flriftures
concerning Gen. Arnold ; and that
i herefore he should not fire on a gei,-
rleinan whom he was inclined tocou
fider as the offended man.
This liandfome apology immedi
ately fettled the unhappy difference,
which has arisen originally from the
following part of Lord Lauderdale's
speech in the House of Lords.
" If apoftacy is a recommendation
to command, the Duke of Richmond,
of all officers, is the best entitled to
that of the camp of Bagfhot, prodd
ed the name of Gen. Arnold beftruck
off the lilt."
July 3. Lord Cornwallis and his
brother will return from India as
soon as the biifinefs of the war is
wound up, which, from the accuracy
pratftifed in every department, will
soon be done.
General Meadows,alas ! isnomore
—deprefled by the mistake which he
fell into in the atftion, he took the
desperate resolution of committing
suicide—he died it is said by a pistol
ball. His worth and his honorable
services in the field, entitle liim to
the regret and lasting esteem of his
country.
M. la Fayette is now beginning to
ail like a man and a soldier. When
his sovereign's life is in danger,from
a democratic rabble, he eagerly fiic>
to preserve him. His army only watt
his commands for the famepurpofe.
July 7. Many who are acquainted
with the extensive and valuable po'"
feflions ofTippoo,in theßednore coun
try, and which are now to be aaa'
to the English pofleflions in the E' l >
positively alfert, that their revenues
produce aa income of joo.oocl. per
ann.—an acquisition—alone fufficient
to (hew the vast importance oi 1 e
peace made by Lord Cornwall'''
Such has been the progrefli ( e 3
of the revenue during the P r * en ,
year, that the excess, it is «P eUei >
will amount to 800,0001. abo*e t 1
former one. Such is the c*> eCt 0
wife regulations, proper)/ P ut 1
force for a just colle<ftion of i' )e iaxe
Before M. Pitt came into office, 011
eighth of the revenue went t° en
rich individuals, or elfeit was ne*
collected.The aJdrelTei from every part of
ilie kingdom are as general as they
were on the King's recovery. This
/hews the difpoluion of the people to
fupporc the conftirution and govern
ment of the country againlt those
who would wifli to undermine ic un
der the specious word of reform.
The proclamation has done more to
feeure the tranquility of the kingdom
than any uieafure Mr. Pitt could have
advised.
The Sierra Leona Company have
ju ft received dispatches from this new
fettleinent, of a molt agreeable na
ture, and which are a direct contra
diction to foule unfavorable reports
which have lately been in circulation
The settlers from England were
arrived in perfect good health, and
were well received by the natives—
lo in uch so, that one of the molt pow
erful kings in the neighborhood had
made propolals to liveamongft them.
The country had been surveyed,
and was found in general well Suited
for the produce of coffee and cotton,
and fonie parts for sugar ; and there
is every reason to hope and believe,
from the account received, that the
Settlement will answer the end pro
posed by those who have embarked
in the undertaking—which is to pro
mote the civilization, as well as com
merce, of Africa
The Chevalier de Friere, the Por
rnguefe Charge des Affairs at this
court, will set off next month for
New-York, where he is charged from
the court of Lisbon as Envoy.
The town of Zoul in France, the
birth place of Gouvion, has publicly
affordid tjiis expreflion of regret up
on his death.
The Society of " Friends to the
Ccnltitution," by the organ of the
Mayor, one of their members, deli
vered, in a public fitting, an eulogi
\im upon the departed General. The
Municipal Body, the Council Gene
ral of the Community, and the Nati
onal Guard, were alio prefcnt at a
foleinn I'ei viee in the parish church
of St. Stephen on tbeoccafion. Can
non were fired every halt hour thro -
out the day.
A mausoleum has been ereifled, de
corated with the emblems of war and
of public grief, upon which infcrip
lions express the hiltory of his life,
the merits of his character, and the
circumrtances of his death.
Such is one part of the honors paid
by France to the General who has
firft fallen in the defence of her li
berties.
The following law cafe was tried
before Lord Kenyon on Monday last :
—This was an action brought by La
dy Elizabeth Lamben, against -the
Defendant, Mr. Tatterfall, who was
a dealer in horses, and also a propri
etor of the morning Port, for a gross
and fcandaious libel contained in dif
ferent paragraphs of that paper, and
charging her with unchaftity, by
eloping with her footman.
This young lady was unmarried,
and was only about nineteen yeais
of age.
She was with her mother at South
ampton at the time these fcandaious
paragraphs were publiflied, and a
yotig lady poffelfing the highest ad
complifliments. .
After Lord Kenyon had addrefled
the Jury, they retired about an hour,
and returned with a verdiift for the
Plaintiff——Four Thousand Pounds
Damages,
A new incident in the forgery of a will has
lately occurred, which would hare done honour
to the brilliant invention of a Barrington—the
trick of putting and guiding a pen in the dead
man's hand, was not fufficient to fatisfv the
conscience of the parties—it became neceflary
absolutely to swear, that when the will was wit
re.Ted, they saw life in him—and a live fly was
actually put into the mouth of the corpse in
order that they miight fafely swear to the fact.
Copy of the Preliminary Articles, agreed upon and ee-
between the Confederate Powers u»4 the
Sultan Tippoo, dated Febyuury 22, 1792.
Article I. One half of the dominions which
were in the poffeflion of Tippoo Sultan, at the
commencement of the prel'ent war, (hall be
ceded to the Allies, adjacent to their refpeftive
boundaries, and agreeably to their fele&ion.
II Three crores, and thirty 01 licca
rupees, (hall be paid to Ul9 Allies, agreeably to
tie following particulars, viz. First, one crore,
iindfixty-five lacks, lhall be paid immediately
in pagodas, or gold mohurs, or rupees oi full
weight and standard, or in gold or silver bullion.
S -cond, the remainder, one crore, and lixty- ve
lacks, at three instalments, not exceeding four
months each, in the three coins before men 1-
oned.
111. All fubje&s of the four several powers,
who may have been prisoners from the time of
the late Hyder Aiiy Khan, to the p relent peri
od, (hall be fairly and unequivocally releaied.
IV. Until the due performance of the three
articles above mentioned, two of the three el
dest Tons of Tippoo Sultan lhail be given as hos
tages, on the arrival of whom, a ceflatiou of hos
tilities Hull take place.
V. When an agreement, containing the arti
cles above written, ihall arrive, bearing the
seal and lignature of Tippoo Sultan, counter
agreements Ihall be felit from the three pow
ers ; and, after the ceiTatioii of humilities, luch
a definitive treaty jof perpetual lriendfhip, as
j (hall be fettled by the feverai parties, shall be
iadjulted and entered into.
A true copy, (Signed)
G. F. Cherry, Persian Interpreter.
George Parry, Adting Dep. Sec.
James Law,
Copied
Examined, Chris. Wren, Examiner.
True copies Rich. Toren, Sub. Sec.
P A R I S, July 2.
Paris is now quite quiet. Quiet it would be
for ever, were it not for the wars of foreign
despots; those thieves and car cafe butchers on
the borders ! the-ne w conilitution of the French
is, and all created nature may Wei's Gbd for it,
altogether pacific. It would fruitrate all war
abroad, as /t has already fruftrated all law liti
gations at home. Mr. Burke indeed said, 44 the
constitution was litigious." liut he will fay so
no more. For it is not true. Out of 8000
causes, before the tribunals at Paris, above
6yoo are fettled, if not amicably, at least equi
tably and unexpenfively, by the enacted preli
minary arbitration. (Bureau de Conciliation.)—
And as to the exifling war with the animal the
King of Hungary, as he is called, he, if any such
lie tiling there be, who (hall impute it to the
French, will be just as wife and as credited,
as the fufpe&ed Irilhman was, who vapoured
about a breach of the peace, when Lord iSerke-
Jey shot a highwayman upon Hounflow Heath.
La Fayette, while he was atParis, palied each
day at La Rothefoucault's. But the peupta
| planted the tree of liberty before the door ol
I his remaining houle in the Fauxbonrg St. Ger-
matne.
BOSTON, September I
It is worthy remark, that whilftthe Govern
ment of the United States, and its administra
tors, are themes of admiration and applause to
tiie celebrated Mr. Paine, Mr. Fox, and many
other friends to the Rights tf Man, in the French
and BritiTi Legislatures; they are i'ubjafts of
daily abu'e to anonymous scribblers, and fac
tious partizins, in the United States. It would
seem that the advocates of tyranny, had bribed
a set of miscreants in Franie and America, to
vilify the only legitimate Reprefeotative Go
vernments in the world ! But the charge is
certainly an imputation Vn their judgment, in
chuliug f'uch weak and wctnjyUnt agents.
A gentleman from Salem, informs us, that
on Thursday last about one o'clock, afire broke
out in a Hatter's Ihop near the Sun Tavern,
which consumed the fame and two dwelling
noul'es.
Mr. William Martin, is started in Maind
Diftriit, as a Member ot'Congrefs. The
Timothy Paine,in Worcefter,aud Messrs. War
ren, Partridge, Cobb, Livermore, Coffin, and
Biihop, in the Old Colony.
The Proprietors of the Locks and Canals on
Merrimack-River, we are happy to learn, are
in a spirited pro "ecution of their laudable en
terprize.
In consequence of the decision of the inhabi
tants of this town, onWednefday last, a general
innoculation for the Small Pox has takpn place
—it is supposed there are above 8000 persons
who are now under the operation of the disease
in this town.
N EW-YORK, September 7.
Yesterday pafl'ed through this city, on their
way to Fort-Pitt, a company of about 70 men,
commanded by Capt. Eaton, and railed by the
state of Vermont.
However trifling the acquisition of this state
might have been considered by some previous to
her union with the United States, we have now
a just right to esteem her a valuable member;
for, since that period, we do not find that (he has
been remiss even in punttillios, and to her cre
dit it may be said, at this time, flie has produced
a set of men, perhaps unequalled by any of her
fitter states. They, from appcarance, are all
under thirty; and one would imagine that an
army compofsd entirely of such men, would
itrike terror in the hearts of the most blood
thirsty of the aborigines of America, however
fuccefsful they might have been in former cam
paigns.
Extract from the Pittsburgh Gazette.
" IN thejournals of Congress we find the
Excise pa! Ted in the House of Representatives
by 36 against 16—in the Senate by 23 against 5.
—In this great majority are we not toprefume
lon a certain portion of common sense and ho
neftv ? Or are we to presume that the citizens
of the United States have sent few to represent
them but fools or wicked men ? In this number
we find the names of Madison and others, of
whose characters it has been fafhionable to think
favorably.
" When the bill was before the House of Re
presentatives last feilion, and after the duty on I
domestic I'piritJ was agreed to be lowered,there
appeared no division upon it \ and in the Senate
it was read the second and third times by una
nimous content j it appears that the two great
parties in both houses, though often opposed to
each other with warmth, have united in the
excise."
The Index and Tit I.i-Page jor the
Third Volume of this Gazette, is now ready to be
delivered to thpje who ir.ttnd to bind that Volume.
(ijf* The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars per
annum—One half to be paid at the time offubferibwg.
Philadelphia, Sept. 12.
ABSTRACT of EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE
There were three sets of French Mini Hers i
one week. Ivl. Dumourier late Minister o
\/ar, in a letter to the National Atlembly,fay c
,4 I can number thirty-iix years of service, inili
tdry and diplomatic, and twenty-two wound'
1 envy the fate of tne virtuous Gouvion, an
iha 1 i think myfelf moil happy if a cannon bal
unite all opinions relpefting me." On motioi
of M. Condorcet, a decree was paired by tin
National Aiicnibly on the 19th June, authorifin]
tiie several departments to burn all the book
eontaining the re gi Iters and titles ot nobility—
which they lay were the only remaining, refug<
ot' tnis ridiculous vanity.
It appears that a coniiderable force proteftct
t!ie Timilleries on the 20th of June, iuthcien
;o have triumphed over the multitude; but re
fpect for the lives of their fellow citizens indue
.'d government to forbear. The Queen diitri
juted ribbons and May-branches with a conde
cenfion that drew from the multitude the ut
110 ft refpett. The scene of confufion continuec
ill 9 o'clock at night, and during the five hour:
t laited, not lei's than 40,000 armed men, wo
iien and children, pal Ted thro' the royal apart
nents. In all thiu confufion, though so man)
>f the lowed and most indigent persons of Pari:
vere in the palace, the most trifling article wa:
lot removed from its place.—ln M. la Fayette':
etter to the National AfTembly, in which he de
lounces the club of the Jacobins, he gives thi:
xtraordinary piece of information, viz. 'I ha
t ejpeufed the American cavfe at the very moment xuhet
's AinLajJudors declared to him that it was left.—
n.e National Aflembly has voted an indemnifi
ation for the loft luftained by the burning o1
Jourtray, and ordered 300,000 livres to be ad
anced for the immediate relief ot the lufferers
vide la Fayette went to the Thuillcriesfrom tnc
Ulembly ; he was escorted by fifty ot the Na
ionaV Guard, and - intioduced into the palace
midst the loudejt acclamations ot Long li ve the
Cing! long live M. de la Fayette !—TheFrenci
lave four armies on their frontiers, under the
ommand of the follow ing Generals—M. Luck
ler, M. de la Fayette, M. Lamoliere, and M"
viontelquiou —the firft consists of the
econd 38,354, the third 32,573* anci the f ()urtl
14,221 —tiiele are troops of the line—ot tneli
0,599 aie xn t^ e field, and 54> 1 73 * 11 garril'ons.
uaking together 144,772 men—wanting t<
oinpleat the regiments, 21,885 —so that whei
ompleatcd, the four armies will confilt oi
66,657. In addition to these, the Nationa
Guards amount to 92,50c —of which there arc
vith Luckner 21 poo, and with Fayette 22,000
In the proceedings ot the National Allembl)
if the 2d July, we find certain journals com
Gained of as falle and libellous. M. Maranl
aid they regarded no bounds, and equally vio
ated law and truth—they were alike destitute
f honor and decency, and adhered to the part)
v'hich they willied to serve, at the expence oi
very other consideration. M. D'Averhoult
lenonnced those journals, which were writter
>y Messrs. Brifibt and Condorcet, who employee
hemfelves every day in writing hbels agamii
heir colleagues.
The papers on the continent talk of negoci
ttions relpeifting French affairs —that couriers
aid meifengers arc daily palling from one Court
o another, dtc.
The French accounts mention frequent de
ertions from the Auftrians—the latter balance
;iefe accounts by faying great delertions are
laily taking place from the French army.
We hear that the insurgent negroes at Hifpa
niola, have lately defeated a body oi French]
troops, under the command of M.Bianchelande;
several valuable French officers 101 l their iives,
it is asserted, on this occasion.
In the Missouri, from Bourdeaux, came pas
sengers—Mr. Franklin Wharton, Mr. John
Allen, and Mr. Brian. \
The lhip Conne&icut, Cr.pt. Phipps, hasbro't
330 passengers from Londonderry—the Alexan
der, from Killabegs, 240 —and the Canton,
Capt. Magee, from Newry, 200—all in good
health.
Xn the Britannia, Martin, arrived at New- ;
York on Sunday lalt, from Glasgow, came 57
passengers.
Capt. Martin had 37 days passage, and has
brought Glasgow newlpapers to the ift August.
Mr. John Mason, foil of the late Rev. Doctor
Mason, of N.York, arrived in tie above Ihip.
French accounts by the above are subsequent
to those already publilhed, viz.
July 19. This day we have the counter lift
of a Ministry designed by the Jacobins; that is
M. Servan, M. Roland, artd M. Claviere, to
come back to office and to be joined by M. Mag
nier, M. Grouvelle, and M. Louvet. This is,
however, denied by themselves and their friends
in a very obstinate way j and the truth is, that
the convulsion remains unabated. This will,
perhaps, determine it-j far the question of M.
La Fayette copies on in the afiembly, and I
have no doubt but the Jacobins will carry tome
resolutions, in which cafe a Jacobin Ministry
will be appointed, and this will indnce the di
rectory of the Department, as well as M. La
Fayette, and many others, to resign. There
is no profpeft of a middle course, and what this
arrangement is likely to produce I dread to
tonje&ure.
Extract oj * letter from Sujfex county, Nm-Jtrfcy.
" I am happy to observe that the objeiStions to
the.excise ast have entirely subsided in this state,
the people being fenlible of the propriety of the
measure. Four new grain distilleries are now
erecting in this county; a twelvemonth ago
there was not one. The are pleased
that Rye is becoming a ca(h article—till lately
it was only dil'pofed of in barter, its bulk and
low price not admitting of an extensive land
carriage. Whilkey is from ss. 6d. to 6s. a gal
lon, Rye at 3s. 6d. a bulhel—the profit of the
distiller enormous." Gin.Adv.
In Mr. Phllip Freneau's National Gazette,
several lengthy extracts front tlte 44 Letters of
a, Farmer, addrelfed to the Yeomanry of the
United Slates," have been publiflied. The
«ame Mr. Philip Frkneau was requejled to re
;)ubli£h from tne Pennjylvania Gazette, printed by
Mejjn. hall and Sellers, 4< Observations of a
Freeman" on those letters, or such extratts
from those observations as might be convenient
to him—this truly impartial Editor has not com
plied with this reafonabie requell—but he hay
publiflied nearly a column of remarks 011 thole
Obiervations of the Freeman. One cf this
impartial Editor's impartial correspondents in the
laid National Gazette of the sth init. has modejtly
impeached the impartiality of the Editor of
this Gazette for republiihing the Obiervations
on the Farmer's Letters, without having firit
publiflied the Letters! ! 1
The substance of thole Letters is however
contained in the address to the Gerinantown
Manufacturing Society} which was copied from
the said National Gazette into the Gazette of the
United States.-—With what lonfijtency the impar
tial correspondent of Mr. Philip Freneau has
termed Fekno the 44 One ji/Ud Editor," is left
with the candid to determine —The impartiality
which from the beginning has lb fuper-eminent
ly diitinguifhed the National Gazette, cannot
I fail of meeting a proper reward.
COMMUNICATIONS.
The men who impute all manner of folly and
corruption to the servants of the people, who
I tell us how much they hate the vites of a court
I and how heartily they despise the tools of office,
seem to think that their own purity bears pro
portion to the turpitude and foulnefs of the
I characters they draw. In private life, it is
thought proper to exercise a little charity in fa
vor even of the worst men : but if we Jfhould
hunt for the faults of our neighbors, and, as
soon as we have found a pin hole in their fame,
we Ihould go to work to enlarge it—if we should
catch every wind of suspicion that blows over
them, and call it proof, what would be said of
our conduct ? We should be deemed pests in lo
ciety. Yet there are writers who pursue this
method in regard to government, and who pre
tend to great merit for doing so.
<i A house divided against itfelf cannot stand."
When one servant of the public intrigues and
makes parties against the proceedings of ano
ther, there will be a want of order in the ad
ministration, and the highest degree of inlectiri
ty against the attacks of those who would tear
the government down to the very foundation
stones. Yet the party writers reprelent thole
who hold the offices of government, as combin
ed in a plot against the people. The cafe there
fore stands thus—if they happen not to be well
agreed, their measures, engendered in discord,
will come to nothing—and if they be well a
greed, it is a proof of a confpii acy against li
berty.
If it were the business 6f the political sphere
to keep forever revolving, as our globe does,
we have men among us who might deserve the
name of very clever, because they do all they
can to hinder its still. But when the
people ri(k life and property for the fake of the
inestimable privilege of framing a free govern
ment for themselves and their posterity, their
toils and dangers are relieved by the hope that
they (hall finally prevail and live in peace and
security. No sooner have they gained their
objedt, than men who abhor a state of tranqui
lity, and who expe<ft to get power and office by
disturbing it, tell them that their own laws are
despotic, and their fubmiflion to their own go
vernment is owing to the decline of their for
mer high spirit of liberty. If we are to fight to
set up a government, and th«n to fight to over
turn it, we may have to fight for a time in a
state of anarchy, till a defpotilm shall be eftab
liflied to keep the peace. Those unquiet parti
zans who try to keep the world in a bustle, may
poflibly have the love of liberty in their hearts,
but they will not lend much alliitance to the
work qJT ere&ing her temple.
Benjamin Bourne and Francis Ma lboni,
Efqrs. are elected Members of the Third Federal
House of Representatives for the State ot Rhode
lfland.
Died, in this city, Mrs. ■ Smith, con a
fort of the Hon. William Smith, Member of
the House of Representatives of the United
States from South-Carolina.
—On Thursday last, Capt. John McPherson,
of this city.
SHIP HEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Skip Polly, Wilhamion, Hull
Canton, Magee, Newry
Connecticut, Phipps, Londonderry
Alexander, Woodward, Killabegs
Columbia, Maley, Amsterdam
William Pent*, Jofiah, London
Brig Dolly, Smith, Liverpool
Leopard, Woodbury, St. Petcrft>uigh
>Miflburi f Bail, Bourdeaux
N. S. del Carmen, Ferniola, C. Francois
Sally, Fernald Portsmouth, N. H.
Mercury, Gardner, St. Croix
Nancy, Miller,
Industry, Waite,
Lydia, Vanfife,
Sch'i Annapolis, Morrifoi?,
Lydia, Thotnpfon,
trimmer, Staunton,
Sloop Henrietta, Newton,
Sally, Ingham,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred, 13/7
Full /Hares Bank U. S. 49 per cent.prcra.
£ (hares, . 60
44 Fact" is unavoidably pojiponed till
turday.
The Anker to " Aristides" came too late for
this da/i 'paper—it will appear in our next.
do.
Cafco-Bay
C. Francois
Nova-Scotia
Frenchman's Bay
Antigua
N. Providencc
St. Kitts
• 2 /a
»3/iWHITE WAX MANUFACTORY.
Thomas james, wax ciiaxdler,
from London, refpe&fnlly mfeiruis ihe public
that he has edablifned a Manufactory of the jbove
branch, at the upper end of Mulberry-Street.New-
Yoik, where Merchants, Captains of Veffeta,
and Families, may be fuppi'ed with
excellent and pure White Wax Candies, White
Wax in Cakes, Tapers, Wax'd Lamp Wicks,
Flambeaux, &c. warranted tqual to any made in
London, and twenty percent, cheaper.
Ordeis in this and the adjacent Stales, received
by Mr. John Goodeve, Bridge-Street, Mr.
William Fkobisher, Fletcher-Street, and at
(be Manuf-ittoiy, wheie lam pics may be seen.
N. B. Bees-Wax taken in payment, or bleached
on moderate terms.
New-York, Jul/ 19, 1792,
New-Brunswick:
Church Lottery.
THt p . ulur circumttanccs of a gentleman
who had undertaken to dispose of a propor
tion of the tickets in the New-Binnfwick Church
Lottery, having, in his opinion, rendered it
veuient for him further to proceed in the faic
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
ets are unexpe&edly returned to the Re£lor,
Church-Wardens and Veft»y-mcn. This fay* m
Managers under the necefijty of further adjourning
tiie.firawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of October next, that they rrav have time to trans
mit thtfe tickets to the parts of the Rate whrre ihey
aieapolicJ tor, and tecrive the returns As (here
are but few tlfc};ets besides these remaining on
hand, ail perfofis who are difpoftd to promote the
pious object of (his Lottoy, or to take a chance
fur the p: iz.es there it), are requeued to supply their,-
felvea by ihe firft of O&ober; and the gentlemen
appointed to diipofe of them, are desired to return
chose to the Mauagers which then remain unfold
to answer ibe applications of some gentlemen ii
the neig.suou»hood, who are postponed to thi> rc
fource for a supply.—And notice is hereby given
that (he tickets riot returned to the Managers hi
theeigh'h day of Oflober, will be couhdercd a;
N. B. -ftoB£RT Morris, Esq. of New-Brqnf
wick, it duly choficn one of the Managen of iJk
fiid Lottery, and has given security and qmlificid
agreeably to law. fepiOi)
TO BE SOLD,
(And pollellion given immediately)
A Valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY Gtuated, and well improved,
containing 213 acres, whereof 47 are wood
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made ; the
cleared land is under good fence, and is well
adapted tografs, and there being so much meadow,
a large Hock may be ratfed : it is also natural to
wheat, and a proper attention to a well-kept iiock,
will much improve its quality, and be the moil
profitable : it has a young orchard of 200 apple
trees, a variety of peach acid cheriy trees, and 4
largt garden. There are on the premises a hand
some two story stone houfc and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza; also, a good barn, with Hailing,
cow-house, granary, waggon-house, woik-fhop,
and fmoak-houfe. The lituation is high, pleasant,
and healthy, and affords some very agreeable pro
fpefts, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the main road to New-York, about a mile and a
half from Princeton, New-Jersey, and 43 from!
tins city. The till- was examined and approved
byeminent council before thefubferiber purrhafed.
For further particulars apply to the fublWiber, at
No. 141, South Second-ftreei, or at No. 81, South
Water-ftrect, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
N. B. Stock for the farm may be had of the pre
sent tenant.
Alio, to be Sold, and entered immediately,
A two-story Br ck HOUSE and BAKE-HOUSE,
in Arch-llrcet, N'o. 23, 16 leu two inches 10 front,
and 102 feet in depth. Apply a& above.
J"'V 17- (eptf)
PROPOSALS,
By ISAAC NEA LE,
FOX. PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
(The ninth edition of)
The Travels of Cyrus:
TO WHICH IS ANNEXED, f
A DISCOURSE upon the THEOLOGY and
MYTHOLOGY of the PAGANS.
BV THE CHEVALIER RAMSAY.
THE Travels of Cyrus having gone through so
many editions in Europe, every thing which
might be said to recommend so valuable a work,
is rendered useless; and as it is now almost, if not
entirely out of print, the publilher trulls there
7a 1 £ r lml<: d,fficult y in procuring a refpeflable
lift of fubferibers to an American Edition.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be published in one volume,
i2mo. on good demy paper, and a neat type; and
will contain about 25® ps^fs.
The price 10 fubfenbers will be On e Dol la r ,
10 Wpi'd o " the delivery of the book, which
wii! be neatly bound and lettered.
The work (hall be put to press in OSobcr next
provided there shall be a s o fubfcnbers.
Any person fcDfcribing lor, or procuring fub
fcnbers tor twelve books, and will be rcfponfible
for the payment, (hall be entitled 10 two giatis.
The names of fubfciibcrs (ball be prefixed to
the work.
u Subscriptions recc 'vcd by most of the
iSookicllerc in Philadelphia and New-York.
N. B Gentlemen who may plcafe to encourage
the work by procu'ing fubfcriptmns, are requertJd
to forward a lift of <he names fubferibed, by the
20th day <»r October next.
George-T own.
A Number of LOIS in every C.tuation which
may be in City of Washington
Mo' H C °! CrC « d /°; salC r & lbe £
Monday the Bth day of (Mober nexi. One lourth
part of the money to be paid do w „, ,h c ,e!,du<-
ihree equal annual payment*. with yearly inte.eft
ou the whole principal unpaid.
JOHN' M'GANTT, Clerk
to the Ceramiflinnets.
£cptf] |
June 2, 1795.
WANTED—TO RENT,
From i he la(t ot October next,
£3- A convenient iloufe, in or r.cur the cor '.re oj
the City.—Enquire oj the Ldtltr.
To be pubtijked #y Subjcnbtioz
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, P*OCttDINC» Oh fH fc
From September 1774, to March 1789
An auth ntic and original collediou oi
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c.
r <-D7-.v]
SECREf JOURNALS.
(fur patlicuUri,Jce Propyls at Urge.)
Suhfcriptions are recetvid by the pr.oi.ipa
liuokfellers, and by the tailor,
JOHN' CARhV, All. 26, Pcar-btrecl, PkiUddphia
Stock Brokers Office,
i Np-4j, Great Dock-street, \iw-Yoii, |
'T'HE Subscriber intending to coofiue hitnfeU
4- entirely to the PURCHASE ahd SALE or
STOCKS ok COMMISSION, Brgt leave loofier
hit services to his trieods and others, in the line'
of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafc to fa*
vQr him with their bufinefa, may depend upon
having it traufaaed with the utmoll fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia. Bo ft on, or any other
part of the Untied States will be ftriflly attend
cd to.
May 2
i oo Dollars Reward
LOST on Cambridge Common, Maflachufetts,
on the atternoon of the iß;h ult. a Mor«cco
POCKLT-BOOK, with a fti el clasp, containing
a number of valuable papers, among which weft
tin. following Public Securities, viz.
MdfTacbufetts State Notes— No 2.425, dated
December «, 1782, payable to Thomas Greenwood,
for £.23 16 i. principal— No. 22,399, da 'ed Ja
nuary 1, 1785, payable 10 Nathaniel Partridge, tor
£ io ioj. principal.— No. , dated Januaiy
1, 1782, (an army note) payable to Tmcthy How
ard, loi£ . 8 81. id. pnncipal.— No. ,' a \ Ol ,
(the nunibei, date, and to whom payable, uol
known) for £. 3 O J. 3d. principal.— One Indent
Ccr:ihcate for four Dollars, and a New-Hamp-
Anre Certificate for about £. 12 payable to John
tnd Daniel Jenis ; also a number of Note» of Hand
one of which was for £. j7 , given by Nathan
Bond to Smmucl W. Pomeroy (by whom it was en
dotled) dated ill May, 1792, and payable on the
nth Augufl following ; the oiheis were all paya
ble to the Sublcnber. The Securities ate chicked
at ilie different offices from whence they were
tffued, and the Noses of Hand by the differcn,
ligners, they can therelore be of r.o use to anv but
the owner.
The Subscriber hereby offers a reward of One
Hundrid Dollars to any person or persons
who has fouud the fame, and will return them to
linn, or leave them w"h the Printer hereof, and
110 quell ions will be asked.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Salem, Majfachufetts y Augujl 1, 1792. (eptfj
Universal
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON, and oiher
Booksellers in Philadelphia,
A Colle&ion of PSALMS, HYMN'S, and SPl
■t\ RITUAL SONGS ; feleiied from different
Auihors, and published by Order of the Con
vent,on hold.ng the Doarine of the Salvauon ol
allj.Men, met in Philadelphia, Mav 25, i-qi.
Price ol a single book, bound,3-Bth» of a Dollar
with good allowance lothofewho lake quaniinei'
4. '(ept,.) '
TMiRITORY of COLUMBIA.
pURSL'AN'T to the lad Will and Teft,mm o f
A the late Rev. Al.xa.m, Wi l mamson,
dialed, will be exposed to Public Sale on ThutU
day, the 1 ith ot October oexi.at Georcetou- s
on a credit of three years, the purchasers givinJ
bond with approved fecurity.io bear mtereft Irom
da.e-That valuable Seat of Land. , n Monteo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation ol the decealed, containing between fix
and seven hundred acrei, the greatelf part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very confiderabk
quantity cl fine meadow ;_S„uaied ahnut(i milr,
from the Federal City.and the fame d.li „ce from
George-Town, it. a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy pait of the country.
n mP , r , OVem o n!S r a,e - 3 V " y clt S a,H * w °
Blick Dwelling House. (with four rooms and a
(«P'o| THO-'lA^^oirvv"' 1 . Ewulo,s -
1 KRUITORY of COLUMBIA.
T H R«kB fcri k e 7 ff "'^ r Sal '' jL »^-S"'or
, Rock Crf< *> deemed by ihofe who have c*
mTh'V \° any lhe Umlcd Stsl ". The
Mtll-Houfe may be placed within one quarter of
fhem°! t" V r er PoloWmaC ' h,lf a from
be market house in Georgetown, and one mile
f»om the PreGdent'i fquaie, in the city of u'alh
'ngton—on tide water, navigable forvcffcls of fe
verai hundred bufliels burthen.—The flieam
fumcen' the year round,to turn four pair ol lionet
and the fill may be madef.om 25.0 3 o fee I,'
JU'
( C P 3 w i
■r Jh' P . UrL . hafcr m 7 bc accommorfatcH will, ,
f uXfcia* Mi "' SC4L
"■ "" THIRD SISSIOK
if the SENJTF. of the UNITED ST4Ti<,
w of the Editor kcruj.
Old Cson^TeJ^ }
wriuen during the laie war ;
And extracts from the
LEONARD BLEECKER.
Hymn Book
B. STODDERT.
V — *
Treasury Department*
Auclst 10, 1792.
N'OTICE is hereby given, that propohis will
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next inciufive, foi thefupply or ali Rations
•vhich may be required for the ufc of the United
Slate*, from the firli day of January to ihe ihirty
firft day of December, 1793, t>o:h days inciufive,
di ibe places, and wjch.ti the diftrilis heieaiter
mentioned, viz.
1. At any place or r'.aces betwixt Yo»k-Town &
Car iTie.iii the it are P nnfylvan a,and Pitciour ...
and «>t Pi t ifo-' rgh, Yoiic-Town mid Cailiflt.
2. At any place or places from Pmfburgh to the i
mouth of B>: Beaver Creek, ana at the inouih of
Beaver Creek.
3. At any place or places from the said mouth to
'he upper sam ul the fa d iv.a ver, diic «l the
upper falls.
j 4. Ar any place or places from che said upper |
j falls lo Mahoning, and ai Mahoning.
j 5. At any place or places 1 rom the fjid Mahoning I
Jove to ihe Head Navigation of the River Caya
ho?a, and *l the said Head Navigation.
6. At any place or places from the said Head Na
vigation to the mouth of the said Rivei Cayahoga,
and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt the mouth o?
the Big Beaver Creek to the mouth of the River
| Mulkiugum, and uo the said River tu the Tufca-
I rowas, and at the 1 ufcarowa>, and thence over to
the Cayahoga River, «jud iucacc down the said j
River to its mouth.
8. At anyplace or places betwixt the mouth of
the River Mufkingum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, aud at the mouth of the said River Scioto.
9 At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami I
at the mouth of the Great Midmi, and from theuct
to Ihe Rapids or ilie Falls of the Ohio, and «st tht
(aid Rapids.
10. At anv place or places betwixt the mouth o 1
the Greet Miami, up the said Miami to and a'
Pique Town.
1 1. At any place or places from Fort Wafbinnon
to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At an*
plice or places from Fort Hamilton to Fort St.
Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At anv place or places from Fort St. Ciair lo
Fort Jetfeifon, and ai Fort Jffftrfoit.
13. At any place or piaccs from Fort lefferfon to
the Held ot a&ion of the 41)1 of Xovembc. I~m
and at the said field of action.
14. At anv place or places from the said field oi
afriontolhe Miami Villages, and at ihc Miami
Villages,
■ »5- At any place or placet from the said Miami
Village! to the Fall, of the Miami River, »hich
empties into Lake Eiie, and at the fa id Falls, and
from thence to it* piouth, and at its n-.ouih.
16. At any place or places from ihc month of ihe
said Miami River of Lake Erie toSatiduiky Lake,
and at Sandully Lake.
17. At any place or places from >he said Sandufky
Lake to the mouth of the River Cayahoga.
18. At any place 01 places from the mouth of the
laid Rivet Cayahoga lu Piefquc] fie; and at Prefque
Isle. ,
19. At any place omlaces from Prefque I fle to the
fticim running into Lake Erie from towards the
Jadaghque Lake, and thence over to and at the
laid Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alle»-
:hany River to Fort Franklin.
20. Ac any place or places IromPiefquclfletoLe
Beuf, <md at he Beuf.
21. Ai any place or nlaces from I.e Beuf to Fori
Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and tiom thenct
to Pittsburgh.
22. At any place or placcs from theßapids of tlv
Ohio to the mouth of the Wabafh River, and from
the mouth us the said Wabafh River to the mouth
oi the River Ohio.
23 At any place or placej on the East fide of the
River MidiOtppi, h-om the mouth of the Ohio
River, to ihe mouth of the Illionois River.
, , 2 i„ A ' a ". T pl ' ce or placei on ,t,c E-' 1 fide of the
j Miliiflippt, between the mouth of the Onio anc
ihe River Margot inclusively.
»si. At any place or places from the said River
Margot to the River Yazout iuclufively.
i 'n y „° IaCC or placc » ,rom 'he mouth of the
laid \V abalh Rivet up to Fort Knox, and at Fori
Knox.
.K S r^^' a . n y P'ace or placet from Fort Knox, up
the laid \V abalh, to Ouiuanon, and at Ouittanon.
r *Il*n y P laceor place*from Ountanon.up the
said A\abafti, to the head navigation of a branch
thereof called Little River, and at the said head
navigation ol Little River.
29. At any place or placet from the laid head na
vigation o. Little River over to the Miami Village
30. At anv place or places from the mouth of the
RiverTencffee to Occochappo or Uea, Creek, on
the laid River, inclusively.
31. At any placeor nlacesfrom the mouth of the
River Cumberland to Nalhvillc, on the laid River
and at Nashville.
„f r'"a V V! Y ?' p '" es withi » thirty miles
oj laid NafhviUe lo the Southward, Westward or
thereof.
Should any rations be required at any placcs, o,
within other diUi.a., not Ipecified in .hefe pro
polals, tbe price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the coiur^ftoT.
1 he rations to be fupplicd are to confiß of the
following articles, viz.
One pound ol biead or flour,
One pound of beef, or j of , pound of pork,
Half a jtli oi rum, brandy or whijky
One quart ot faJt, }
T wo quarts of vinegar,
Two pounds of soap, r P er ICO "lions.
One pound ot candles, )
J he rattoos ate to be furtiinied in such quami
lies as t.,at there (hall at all ttme s , during ,h e laid
term, he (üßicient to r lh e coiilumotiou of the
troops at each ot the. (aid polh, lor the- fpacc ol a,
lean three mombs tu advance, in good and whole
(ome proviftons, if the lame ihall be required.
r n 15 'ji u " d "' lood '"each cafe, liuc all loflVs
It-Hamed by ihe depredations of the enemy, or bv
means ol lhe troops ol l he United Stale., Ihall be
t>a,d lor at tlu-pntWthe a.i.clcsc.ptured o, de.
ltro-.cd.on thcdepofitious ol two or more credit
ed* n?fi ' V a " d l '. >e c, ,uflci " < ' °f * eointniflion
ed ottKer alcmaming the circumttanres of lh.
l.» s , and The amomi. of ihe articks so, which com
'jcnlauon is claimed.
The conn ast (or the above fupplitj will be madt
' so ' me >'" r > " r f<W ycau, as may appeal
fere -—*nr Itit'h iijfc,, y .2Sr
*• ** 111 ■»»
The T*—T —frrjiSit tl .tf * ' frjl
Treasury Department
* AveutT ioiv. *
NOTiC£ill I„eh1„ehv e ..m ,
b« woeivcd juue o«cc ot .S,
ihe Trcafury, umil the irh day Q f *
inclusive, ,o, ,he f upu | v ot aU *«
he required f„ lhf use „f,h r U o |..j a*,**
n' , div of 'J anuJ, v 'o the ifciu.-s'sV' 0 ™
December , 793 , bothd-v. lOC | ufi J,
,ne Sure of M-ifLchule.i s ., nd
Point, in the Suic u s New-Yoi It
i,c 10 °< *
One pound of b.e?d or Boor
Ooe p„ u „d ot b «,, or jof ;
Hill . jill of rum, br»udv or whiftv
One amrt of f»Jt, "
Two quarts of vim-gar, /
Two pounds of soap, ( P" 'CO rjtlou».
One pound of cauditj. )
The proDofch m JV be made for both «f ,k
"bove-memionerf PofU, or fep« 1U !v f, s "
field and Well-Point
Treasury Department,
NAucctT,
j OTICE is hereby given, lha, prt,p., (i U will
,h bc rccc;v ' '1-ltheftiSte ®l «hr .v-,, Ufv •
the Treajury uni il ,he fourth oi , ot Ou.vjerLv
f l,„ wln^c
■" - -«
r°. y HE IN-KAXTXY A V° ARTILLERY
llfo v'T P-rofSock,
Bbbß U roirn Overalls 4608 Stocks
0.m6 Linen O.e.alt, 4ficJj c)j
18376 Pa.r of Shoe. ot Suckle,
FOR thi CAVALRY.
360 , iG P d ,r oiSi ut kin-i
' s 1440 Shirtl
3 f»"' S r, Kbnkeu
3&0 Pair of Leather 360 Stock*
p ;3 /r C ' US 360 So ' kC '*'>;alfo,
720 Po.rof iioocs 1200 KtfleShms, tobc
360 Pair of Spurs (nude of lluiHa Sheeting.
The above Clothing to be delivered either
\ u Pn;,ad c'phia or Baltimore, at thcoo
■ ton ot the conrrafinr or conusors, ot. or
he 15th cay ot June, 1793.
1 he piopofals mav coinprife the whole of the
before-memjoped Clothing, or any on, or a ,„.
o thecomponeni article.; to be lum.fhed a S ieea.
■ to patterns or fpeciipeui, which will be fhou
aitnc \\ ar Office. Good fecurily i»ii: beitquii.
Ed tor the punfhia! and faithful pcrioimaine ..f
" c con, «f. The payment will be on therein;,
ry of the Cloihing, q», if neecffan, luch r«fnn>.
nle advanrej Wlil be made a> Ibe Secretary of li, c
Trealury (hall diem expedient.
War Department,
August 6, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United Stales, that
the fuins tu which they are mtitled for fix momfis
of their annual pension. from the 4th day of Maich
1792, and which will become due on the sth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the laid day
;X lhe Commitfioners of the Loans within the
States refpedively, under the ulual regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mud be accuiu
pamed by the following vouchers.
1 ft. The certificate given bv the slate, fpecifying
that the person poflVfling the fame is in lad an in
valid, and a fee? taming the sum to which as such he
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. camc before me, one of the ft/Ikes of the
county of m the slate of and made oath thai
he is the fame A. B. to whom the original certificate
in his pojfeffion was given, of which theJul towing u
a CO P) (the certificate given by the Jlatc to be rkited)
That he served (regiment, corps or veffelj at
the time he was difalled, and that he now rejides n
l " c and county of and has lefdtd
therefor the lafl years t previous to which he re
ftded in
In cafe an invalid should apply foi pavincut by
an attorney, the said attorney, betides the ccriifir
cate and oath before recited, must produce a fne
ctal letter of attorney agreeably to'.he following
form ;
I, A. 3. of county of Jiate of dt
herci> conflitute and appoint C. D. oj my lanjul
attorney, to receive in my behalf of my penjioi
f" r fx months, as an invalid oj thf United States,
fiom the fourth day of March, one thou fan d stun
hundred and ninety-two, and ending the fifth day of
September, one thoujandfcixn hundred and ninety-two.
Signed aud fealcd
»n the pretence of
Acknowledged before rae f
Applications of executors and adminiftiators
must he accompanied with legal evidence of ti-cr
'Hpe&ive offices, and also of ihe time the invalid*
died, who fie pin (ion they may claim.
By command of the
Prtfident of the United States,
H. KNOX, Sen etarj oj (for,.
The Priuters in the refpeflive Statesyt
requeftcd to puhliih the above in ihcir ucv»ip«i*
pers, for the ipace of two months.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL, HYSON & SOUCHONG,
Of the very fiifl quality, and latWl importation
fiom Canton, via New-Yoik, by retail,at
No 19,
Third, between Chcfuui and ?«-aikci Streets,
tVitneJfes.