A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STRF.F.t ?HII. ADELPHIA
[No. 79, of Vol. lII.]
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
The SECRETARY of the TREASURY, ,n obedience to the order of
the Houfeof Reprrfentatwa oj the 19 th injltnt, reflecljully makes
the following
REPORT.
AT the close of the year 1790, there was a confiderab.e tui
plus of revenue beyond the objects of expenditure, which
had required a provision to that period ; which surplus, bv ar,
act of me 1 ath of August in that year, was appropriated to the re
du&ion of the public debt. n
The lUiement (A) herewith submitted will shew, 111 one view,
,11 the sums which according to the eilablifhments heretofore
made, and correfpondmg appropriation., have requ.r d and will
require to be defrayed, from the beginning of the year ,791, to
the end of the year 1792, amounting together to seven millions
and eighty-two thousand, one hundred and ninety .seven dollars,
and seventy-sour cents.
The statement (B) will also frew in one view the nett product
of all the public revenues for the fame period, according to the
Left calculation and estimate which can now be formed ot it, a
mountingto seven millions and twenty-nine thousand seven hun
dred and fifty-five dollars, and twenty-fix rents.
The statement (C) exhibits a summary of the total annual ex
penditure of the United Slates, in conformity to existing eftablilh
ments, amounting to three millions fix hundred and eighty-eight
thoufaud and forty-three dollars, fifty cents.
The statement (B) includes a view of the probable product during
ihe year 1792, ot the eXisting revenues of the United Slates, a
moonting to three millions seven hundred thousand dollars.
From thefeftatements will refuh substantially the information
which is desired by the House of Rcprefentatives, as far as it is
now in the power of the Secretary to give it.
One or two matters however may be proper to be added with
a view to greater accuracy..
There are certain instances, in which the estimates for appro
priations have exceeded, and will exceed the sums actually ex
pended. Hence, the apparent excess ot the expenditure as ex
hibited in the statement (A) beyond the product ok the revenue as
ihewo in the statement (B) will probably not be found real. But
the amount ot these furpluffs or over estimates is not stated, be
cause it is not, and in some cases, cannot now be ascertained, and
it is not likely to he very confidcrable; and becaufe,alfo if it fhouid
do more than counterbalance the excess alluded to, it will be fafeft
to set off the surplus agaiuft those contingent demands which from
time to time occur.
No deduflion has been made from the annual interest, on ac
count of the debt purchdfed. This has proceeded trom a fuppo-
Tition that it will be deemed expedient by the legislature, to appro
priate inviolably the interest of any part of the debt which (hall
at any time be exiinguifhed, towards the extin&iori of the re
mainder. This point will be more particularly fubinitied in a
report on the fubjetfc of the public debt.
All which is humbly fubinitted,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
, Secretary ot the Treasury.
Treasury Department, January 23d, 1792.
(A)
STATEMENT of EXPENDITURES, made and to he made,
purfpant to appropriations heretofore made, in conformity to
the cxifting cftablifhinents ot the United States, from the be
ginning of ihe year 1791 to the end of the year 1792, viz.
DoU. Cts.
Amount of monies appropriated by an ast of the 11 th of
February, 1791. martini> appropriations Jor the fup~
port of government dui ing the yclr 1791, ana for
other purposes,
Sum appropriut db\ an afl of the 3 d of March, 179 1 '
towards cjfe ,: iing a recognition oj the treaty with the
Emperor of Morocco,
Sum appropriated by an at 7 of the fume date, for raising
another regiment, and making a Jurther provision jor
the protection oj the frontiers, 312,686. 20
Amount of monies appropriated by an ad. of the 23d of
December lajl pajl, making provision among other
things,fo* thefupport ofgoiernmentfor the year 1792 1,059,222. 81
Sum to be advar.ee J purfuuut to the a t making provision
jor defraying the tnter, the United States
and foreign nation},
Amount oj ore year's interejl on the
public debt, foreign and domejlic,
during the year 1791,
Amount of one year's interejl on the
public debt, foreign and domejlic,
(including that of the rejpechve
Jates, ajjumed) during the year
1792,
Total expenditure to the end of the year 1792,
Treasury Department, Jan. 23, 1792
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary ot the Treasury,
w
Eftimaie of the nctt Product of the Public Revenues, during the
Years 1791 and 1792.
IMPORT DUTIES FOR 2 79 1
Quarter ending the $\JI oj March,
Quarter ending the %oth of June, (A)
Quarter ending the 30 th of September,
Quarter ending the 31Ji of December, (B)
Total nett produflsfcr 1791 oj imports, 3>*79»755-
Duties on home madefpirits, from the \Ji of July to the
laji of December, (C)
Total vett revenue, 1791,
Duties on imports Jor the year 1792,
ejlimated at (D) 3,300,000
Duties on home-made fpiritsfor the fame
year, ejlimated at (E)
Total rj nctt revenue for the years 1791 and 1792, 7,029,755. 26
(A.) The produce of these three quarters may be considered a«
afcertaintd. Though returns have not been received Irom all the
740,232. 60
20,000.
4®,0c0.
2,172,141. 6i
2,060,861. 40
2,849,194.73
— 4,910,0.56.13
7,082,197. 7
Dols. Cts.
314,881. 11
x >34s'3°3* 49
919,570. 66
600,000.
IjC, coo.
3'3 2 9'755- « 6
400,000
3,700,000.
NOTES.
Saturday, January 28, 1792.
ports for the entire period ; yet so many have been received (in-
the principal ports) as to have admitted ot a calculation
with regard to the left, not liable to material error. The pio
• luce for the year 1790, has served as a guide, in refpe£l to ports
Irom which returns have not beeit received.
(B) The sum here Hated, is altogether upon estimate : the tun
which has elapled ftnee the end of the quarter not admitting ol
the proper documents. It exceeds the producc of the fame qua
■ er, for the preceding year, fifty-five thouland seven hundred
seventy-three dollars and pineteen centi? If the ratio of lncreaf
of any preceding quartet during the year J791, had been appned
to this quarter, the fuin would have been considerably greater
But it is believed, that this would not lurnifh a just rule. It:s
understood that the importations for the last quarter of 1790, were
much eucreaftd to avoid the additional duties which were to
tak • place on the firft day of the year 1791. And though the ad
ditional duty on dittilled spirits, might at fiift view lie ex petted
to add to the product for the quarter in question, yet it is ar
lrom certain, that tins was the ettett of it. E- • Quinary e * er "
tions were made to import distilled spirits prior to J u y* w en
the additional duty took, effect, which may be luppoled to have
l-ffened the quantity afterwards-fo as to leave it a question whe
ther this article was more or less produflive in that quarter, t an
in the fame quarter of the former year. Making allowance for
these ciicumftances. it does not appear probable, that the lalt
! quarter of ,7gi, Willi xceed the last quarter of 1790, in lo great
a proportion, as anv of the preceding correfpondmg quarters.
(C) This sum is materially (Wtof the originally estimated pro
duct,but from the returns hitherto received, it does not appear like
ly to be greater. This is owing partly to a decreased distillation of
spirits from ioreign materials, in consequence of a ludden rile in
the price of molatfes, and partlv to the obstacles which have re
tarded the complete execution of the law.
' D) The sum here estimated, cannot, in the natiire of the thing,
be accurate. It includes a compromise of oppofiie considerations.
First, it contemplates an additional sum for the additional duty
on imported spirits, which will be fully operative during the
present year. Secondly, it contemplates the poflibility thatine
disturbances in Hifpaniola may tend to diminifti thelupply of (e
---veral articles which areobje&sof considerable duties, and may
proportionally diminish ihe revenue. Hence about one third ol
the probable increase of the duties on spirits is added to the pro.
ducc of the year 179*1 and the aggregate is taken as the produce
of the year 1792 abatingtwo thirds of lhat increase as an eqviva»-
Knt for other deficiencus.
(E) The fame disturbances in Hifpaniola may be expetted to
diminish the produtt of the duties on home made spirits, by con
fiderahly reducing the supply of molaftes ; which, added to the
obftaclefc already alluded to (and which it will require yet some
rime completely to furmouni)cannot fail to render the real pro
du£l of these duties, in the eourfe of the prelent year, materially
less than the estimated produd. Accordingly an abatement of
about one-third is made in the present eftimaie.
Treasury Department, Jan. 23, 1792-
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary ot the Treasury,
ESTIMATE of Annual Expenditure, on the Ground of existing
F.rtabliftvnents, viz.
For the support of the civil ejlablifhments of government,
including for foreign affairs,
Stated expenditure of the Wat Department, tnclndtng
2,5.000 dollars jor Indian Affairs,
Pensions to invalids t
Intefrfl on the public debt, foreign and domejiic, includ
ing the amount ojthe Jlate debts ajjumed t
Total annual expenditure,
Treasury Department, lan. 43, 1792.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
FROM THF. DELAWARE GAZETTE.
CONSTITUTION OF GOVERNMENT.
PUBLISHED FOR THE CONSIDERATION OF
THE CITIZENS OF THE DELAWARE STATE;
Furfuant to an Order of the Convention ot the 31ft Dec. 1791
IVt., the Peoplt, kzrrb\ ordain and eflablifh this Conjlitution of Govern
ment Jot the State of Delaware.
GOD, of his infinite goodness, so willing all men hjive united
with then nature, the rights of -worthipping aild fciving their
Creator according 10 the dittates of their consciences, of enjoying
and defending life and liberty, of acqu-ring and prote&ing repu
tation and property, and ir. general oi attaining objetts fui'able to
ineir condition, without injury by one to another; and as these
rights are effcntial to their welfare, for the due exercise thereof
power is by the Divine benevolence inherent in them, 'here
fore all just authority in the institutions of political society is de
rived from the people and eftablilhed with their content, to ad
vance their happiness: and they may for this end, as circumflan
ces require, from time to lime alter their confttlutions of govern
ment.
ARTICLE I,
Section i. It is the duty of all men frequently to aflemble
together for the public worffoip ot the Author of the univerle ; and
piety and morality, on which the prosperity of communities de
pend*, are thereby promoted ; but no man shall or ought to be
compelled to attend any religious worship, to contribure to the
ere£lion or fuppott of any placc of worfhtp, or to the maintenance
ot any ministry, against his own tree will and consent; and no
power (ball or ought to be vcfted in or any magis
trates, that shall in any cafe interfere with, or in any manner con
troul the rights ot conscience, nor a preference be given by law
to anv religious societies, denominations or modes of worship.
2. No religious test shall be required as a qualification to any
office, or public trust under this state.
3. All elections rtiall be free and equal.
4. Trials by jury shall be as heretofore.
5. The press shall be tree to every citizen who undertakes to ex
amine the official condutt of men a&ing in a public capacity i and
any citizen may print on any fubje£V> being responsible for the a
buse of that liberty. In prosecutions for publications investigat
ing the proceedings of officers, or where the matter publilKed is
313
Dolt. Cts.
368,653. 56
388,731. 61
87,463. 60
838,848. 77
2,849,194.73
3,688,043. 5c
[Whole No. 287.]
nroDcr for public information, the truth thereof may be given in
vidcnce; and in all indidtmenU for libels, the jury may deter*
nine the fa£U and th? law.
6. The neopie (hall be secure in their persons, houses, papers,
and poffrfliou*, from unreasonable searches and fctzurrs; and n<»
warrant to search any place, or to feiie any ptrfon or things, shall
•flue, without describing them as particularly as may be ; nor then,
unless there be probable cause supported by oath or affirmation.
7. In all criminal prosecutions, the accused haih a right to be
heard by himfelf and his counsel, to be plainly and fully informed
of the nature and cause of the accusation againlt him, to meet the
witnefles in their examination face to face, to have compulsory
process in due time, on application by himfelf, his friends or
counsel, for obtaining witnefles in his favor, and a speedy and
public trial bv an impartial jury: He (Hall not be compelled to
give evidence a gain ft himfelf; nor (hall be deprived of life, li
berty or property, unless by the judgment of his peera or the lav/
of the land.
8 No person (K»ll far any indictable offence he proceeded
agamft criminally by information, except in cases arising in the
land or naval forces, or in the militia when in a&ual service in
time of war or public danger ; and no person (hall be for the fame
offence twice put in jeopardy of lite or limb: Nor (hall any man's
property be taken or applied to public use, without the eonfent of
his reprefmtatives, and without compensation being made.
9. All courts (hall be oprn ; and every man for an injury done
him in his reputation, person, moveableor immo* eable poffeflions,
shall have remedy by the due couife »f law, and justice adminis
tered according to the very right of the cause and the law of the
land, without sale, denial or unreasonable d( lay or expence; and
every action (hall be tried in the county in which it shall be com
menced, unless when the judges of the cou r t in which" t'ie cause t»
to be tried, (hall determine that an impartial trial thereof cannot
he had in hat county. Suits ma\ be brought the state,
accoidingto such regulations as {hall be made by law.
10. No power of suspending laws (hall be exercised, but by
authority of the Legifiarure.
11. Exceflive bail (hall not he required, nor exceflive fines im
posed, nor cruel puni(hments inflicted t and in the conftruftion
of goals, a proper regard (hall be had to the health of prisoners.
12. AM prisoners (hall be"bailable by fuflicient sureties, unless
for capital offences when the proof is positive or the presumption
great; and when persons are confined on accusation for such of
fences, their friends and counsel may at proper seasons have access
to them.
13. The privilege of the writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be sus
pended, unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public
fafety may require it.
14 No com million of oyer and terminer or goal delivery (hali
be issued.
15. Noattainder (hall wot k coiruption of blood, nor, except
during the life of the offender, forfeiture of e(latc» The estates of
those who destroy their own lives (hall defcerid to or vest as in cafe
of natural death ; and if any person be killed by accident, no for
feiture shall be thereby incurred.
16. Though disobedience to laws by a part of the Rpople, upon
suggestions of impolicy or injustice in them, tends by immediate
effect and the influence of example, not only to subvert the public
welfare and fafety, but also in governments of a republican form,
contravenes the social principles of such governments, founded on
common eonfent for common good, yet the citizens have a right
in an orderly manner to meet together, and to apply to persona
intruded with the powers of government, for redress of grievan
ces or other proper purposes, by petition, temon ft ranee or ad
dress.
17. No standing army shall be kept up without the eonfent of
the Legislature ; and the military (hall, in all cases and at all times,
be in flrift subordination to the civil power.
18. No soldier (hall in time of peace be quartered in any house,
without the confront of the owner ; "nor in time of war, but by a
civil magistrate, in a manner to be prescribed by law.
19. No hertditary diftin&ion (hall be granted, nor any office
created or exercised, the appointment to which (hall be for a lon
ger term than during good behaviour; and no person holding any
office under this state, (hall without the eonfent thereof, accept of
any present, emolument, office, or title of any kind whatever liom
any King, Prince, or foreign State.
H'e declare that every thin 4 in this Article is refervei out of the £<*£<
ral Powers of Government hereinafter mentl6r.il!.
article 11.
Section 1. The Legislative Power of this State fhallijc veiled
in a General Aflembly, which shall consist of a Senate and House
of Representatives.
2. The Reprelentatives shall be ehofen annually by the Citizens
residing in the levera! Counties Refpeftively, on the fiift Tuesday
of October.
No Person (ball be a Repref. ntative, who shall not have at.
tained to the age of twenty-one years, and have a freehold in the
county in which he (halt be chosen, or personal property of the
value of two hundred pounds at least, and paid a Sia e or county
tax, have been a citizen and inhabitant of the State three yeais
next preceding the firft meeting of the LegiQature after his .lec
tion, and the lad year of that term an inhabitant of the county in
which he shall be chosen, unless he lhall have been abtent on the
public business of the United Stales or ot this State.
There shall be seven Representatives chosen in each county,
until a greatet number ot Representatives shall by the general As
sembly be judged necessary ; and then, two thirds of each branch
of the legislature concurring, they may by law make provision
for increasing their number. . .
3 The Senators shall be chosen for three years by the citizens
residing in the several counties relpeftively, having right 10 vole
for Representatives, at the fame time when they lhall vote for
Representatives, in the fame manner, and at the fame places.
No person lhall be a Senator who (hall not have attained to the
age ot twenty-live, and have in the county in which he (hall be
chosen, a freehold-eftate in two hundred acres of land, or an cl
tate in real and perfooat property, or in either, of the value of
onethoufand pounds at lead, and have been a citizen and inha
bitant of the State three years next preceding the firft meeting of
ihe Lcgiftature after his eletlion, and the last year of that term an
inhabitant of the county in which he (hall be chosen, unless he
(hall have been absent on the public business of the United States,
or of this State.
There (hall be three Senators chosen in each county. When a
a greater number of Senators shall by the General Aflfembly be
judged necessary, two thirds of each branch concurring, thev
may bylaw make provision lor increasing their number ; but thenumber o( Senators shall never be greater th?n otut half, nor less
than one third.of the number of Representatives.
Immediately after the Senators (hall be ele&ed in consequence
oftht firft election, the Senators refidingin each cou/ity shall be
divided by lot into three clafles. The feats of the Senators of
the firft class shall be vacated at the expiration of the firft year ;
of the fccond class at the expiration of the second year ; and of the
ihird class at the expiration ot the third year; so that one third
may be chosen every year.
4. The General Assembly shall meet on the firft Tnefday in
January in every year, unless looner convened by the Governor.
5. Each House (hall choose its Speaker and other Officers ; and
also each House, whose Speaker (hall exercise the office of Go
vernor, may choose a Speaker pro tempore.
6. Each House shall judge of the ele&ions, returns, and qualifi
cations of its own members ; and a majority of each shall consti
tute a quorum to do business ; but, a smaller number may adjourn
from day to day, and shall be authorised to compel the attendance
ofabfent members, in such manner and under such penalties as
shall be deemed expedient.
7* Each house may determine the rules of its proceedings, pi:n
ifh any of its members for disorderly behavior, and with the
concurrnnce of two thirds expel a member; and shall have all
other powers neceflary for a branch of the legislature of a free and
independent State.
8. Each House shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and
publish them immediately after every session, except such parts
as may require secrecy ; and the yeas and nays of the members on
any question, shall at the desire of any member be entered on the
journal.
9- The doors of each House, and of committees of the whole,
shall be open, unless when the business is such as ought to be
kept secret.
jo, Neither House shall, without the consent of the other, ad
journ for more than three days, nor to any other place than that
in which the tv«o Houses shall be fitting.
11. The Senators and Representatives fnall receive a compen
sation for their services, to be afcerta'ned by law, and paid out of
the Treasury of the State : Bur, no law varying the compensation
shall lake efFe£l, till an ele&ion of Representatives shall have in
tervened. They shall in all cases, except treason, felony, or breach
° k c *>eac<\, be privileged from arrest during their attendance at
t e feftion of their refpe&tve Houses, and in going to and return
ing from the fame ; and for any speech or debate in either House
they shall not bequeflioned in any other place.
12. No Senator or Reprefenrative shall, during the time for
"which he shall have been ele&ed, be aopointed to any civil office
under this State which fhal) have been created, or the emoluments
of which shall have been increased during such time. No person
concerned in any army or navy contra#, no member of Congrcfs,
not any person holding any office under this State, or the United
States, (except Attomies at Law and Officers in the Militia) (hall
unng his continuance in Congress, or in office, be a Senator or
Representative.
*3* When vacancies happen in either House, writs of elc&ion
nail be lifued by the Speakers refpeftively, or in cases of necefli
ty in such other manner as (ball be provided for by law ; and the
per ons thereupon chosen shall hold their feats as long as those in
"whole (lead they are ele&ed might have done, ft such vacancies
had not happened.
14- All bills for railing revenue (hall originate in the House of
Keprclematives; but, the Senate may propose alterations as on
other bills ; and no bill from the operation of which, when paf
ied into a raw, revenue may incidentally arise, shall be acconnted
a bill tor railing revenufc; nor (hall anv matter or clause whatever,
not immediately relatiugto and necessary for railing revenue, be m
any manner blended with, or annexed to, a bill for railing revenue.
- v, ° money shall oe drawn from the Treasury, but in con-
Jequence of appropriations mace by law ; and a regular ftaiement
and account of the receipts and expenditures of all public
lhall be publilhed annually. ( TO B E continued.)
Oft. 2t. Notwithstanding theprefent apparent
public peace and tranquility, it is visible that no
fniall uneasiness exists relative to the very consi
derable emigrations that have taken place these
some weeks pad:. It is a matter of serious con
cern also to lee such quantities of cafli every day
transferred into foreign countries, which ought,
in justice, to remain in the kingdom.—There is
no doubt of the reality of the preparations mak
ing by the French ex-princes ; and however dis
couraging their profpecfis may seem, they are by
no means dertitute of powerful friends. The
pafl'ages leading to the French frontiers, are as
much thronged by people, night and day, as the
road between Paris and Versailles. The French
inhabitants on the frontier provinces are ex
tremely exasperated against the fugitives, and
have unanimously declared, that upon the firft
authentic news of an invasion, they will imme
diately burn and destroy the buildings and pof
femons of the old nobility, and will give 110 quar
ter to any person whatever, who is found in
arms, and in favor of restoring the old govern
ment. It is certain, that if a civil war does break
out (and as f&r asdepends on the emigrants, that
will certainly be the cafe) it will be one of the
tnott bloody that has ever happened in the an
nals of mankind.
00. 28. Notwnhftanding the very confidera
blenumber of French officers that are reported
to have deferred their ports on the frontiers,
(feme fay 30 or 40 thousand) it is proved that
these accounts are exaggerated. A letter from
the minister of war to the National Membly
ffates the matter as follows. The total number
of officers in the French is from ten to eleven
thousand, from which have deserted not more
than two thousand, exclusive of the body-guards
of the king and princes, which are fomethino
fliort of 1400 ; and perhaps eight or nine hun
dred more from the old reformed corps ■ so that
the whole number of deserters is between four
and five thousand ; who have referred to the fe
veral rendezvous of the ex-princes.— It is certain
tha; the number of soldiers that have deserted
to the party of the princes is not near so consi
derable as that of the officers, and confiderine
the obstacles that the German princes have
thrown in the way of recruiting for the French
princes, if does not seem probable that they will
ever be in a condition to invade France with any
profpecl 01 success.
PARIS.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF RF. PRESEN TA TIVE S,
THURSDAY, January 5, 1791.
The Houje proceeded in the consideration of the
Pofl-Office Bill.
TV/TR. FITZSIMONS' proportion for authorif
>ng the (tages vvhicli transport the mail to
carry palfengers—was further difcufTed.
Mr. Clark objected to the proposition—he tho't
it would give rile to a contest between the (late
and general governments, which he conceived
was unneceflary, and had better be avoided.
Mr. Seney also objected to it—he said, before
such a clause was agreed to, it certainly was in
cumbent on the gentlemen in favor of it, to (hew
that the regulations in the several states which
would be affedted by it, had, or would obflrutfi
the transportation of the mail—except this was
made to appear, it ought to be well confidcred
how far the interference with those privileges
would tend to dilturb the tranquility of the go
vernment.
Mr. Livermore said he had no dotibts on this
fubje<sl— the right of Congress to fend the mail
in that way which will jbe nvoft for the public
advantage, cannot be controverted.—Let gentle
fen, said he, consider what would be the conse
quence, if fiinilar monopolies existed in all the
other states—it would entirely render nugatory
the power of Congress to eftablifli poft-offices
and post-roads— The consequences of this areea
fily to be conceived—lt is said, that the persons
vested with these exclusive privileges, have con
tracked on as ealy terms as the post-master gene
ral could have contracted with any other per
sons—but it does not folldw that they will not
extort in future—it certainly destroys all compe
tition, and leaves ths United States entirely in
the power of these perfong. He hoped that the
House would not hesitate to adopt the proposi
tion.
Mr. Seney replied to Mr. Livermore, in a few
remarks, in which he juftified the states of Ma
jyland and Virginia for granting the monopolies
in quefhon. r
_ Mr. Gerry said he was in favor of the proposi
tion—He aiferted that the power to eftablifli poft
roads was coeval with that of eftablilhing poft
ofhces; if the former power is not in Congress,
t ey have already proceeded too far in exercising
the latter power It has been faid,.that the states
had a right to grant these monopolies—to this
l.e conceded, that they had, previous to the a
doprion of the conftnution ; but in consequence
of that event, all fnch laws are null and void of
courfe.—lt is become necefTary for Congress to
carry their power in this refpetl into execution
tor he had been informed from good authority,
that the post-master general could not contract
with these perlons npon the fame terms that he
could wuh others-He inrtanced other inconve
niencies and disadvantages resulting from this
situation of the business, especially by an unne
ceflary detention of the mail for two days every
week.—Congress ought to define and declar'e
he:r powers, that those states which have palled
wTtV'.-ef"'!^ 1^ 'ble therewith, may repeal them.
With lefpedl to the power of eftabli/hing Poft
oftices, none of the states claim a participation
of that power ; and as to the eflablifhing poft
roads, the states pofiefs any power in thft cafe
Congress certainly poflfefs a concurrent power J
and therefore this government may certainly
make the neceflary regulations, where the states
ha e either made improper regulations, or no re
gulations at all.—He conceived that jullice to
individuals and to the United States, rendered k
power! for Congreft to exercise the
Mr. Niles enquired, what is the import of the
present question ? It is not, Sir, whether you
may carry your mail through any of the flrates
on foot, on horseback, or i.fa stage-coach It '
not contended, that any law ol " any ftT.e
conrtitutionally prevent this. The dates h v a'
dopting the confutation, have ceded their'ri^ht
has been granted by the ftatp rr rt lor lure,
still evict. V ' • government, and
i exuts, — You are impowered hv n
t'on to eltablifh poft-ofßces and n„ft! c , onflm ';
to do whatever imv K» rr Pol'-roads, and
rv t-Vioi- • uecetjary and proper to cat*
ry that power lnto esses v 7. r,,car
»*. i.
314
that you fhculd ered* ftage'-coaches f or the n„ r
pole of transporting paflengers ? What ha. f
Why, Sir, nothing more than this, by "
to the carrier of your mail, a right tl £ rr y Zf
fengers for hire, the carriage of the mn ;/, P
lmie less expensive. Does thit conf.deraiion rl«
der it necejfary and proper, for you to violate th,.
laws of the states > If not, you will bv In
violate their rights, and' overleap ,h e bound? of
your own. Tins business occasion 9
adjudication, order to which the judiciary 2
determine, whether you have a conllituthnil l
toeftablifh this regulation, and thifSde p £
on the question wherher it be necejfary and S
per : A curious dictionary tav qu " efti , (
an one as'prefume never entered the though
of the states when they adopted thec<mftit uti ® ,
k u- , " g P ecuniar y saving pro ;
posed by this regulation, entitles it to tile ch a /
racter of a necejfary one ;or in.the sense of th*
constitution, n proper one, and so a conflk ut i Bna ,
one, what may not Congress do under the id.,
of propriety It may be proper, for the fake of,
more advantageous contract for carrying t h"
mail, toauthorife the carrier to eredi ferry-boat*
for the tranfportatjon both of the mail and of
paflengers or to grant the right ofdrjving herd,
of cattle over toll bridges and turn-pike road,
toll free, in violation both of legal and pnefcrin.
live rights-To ere<» port-houses underpeculi£
regulations, and with exclusive right. What
Sir, may not be construed as proper to be doni
by Congress ? Under this idea, the whole pow
era veiled in Congress by the constitution, will
be found in the magic word proper, and the states
might have spared, as nugatory, all their delibe.
rations on the constitution, and have constituted
a Congress with general authority to legislate
on . ever y fubjedt, and in any manner it might
think proper. VVhat l ights then remain to the
states . None, Sir, but the empty denomination
of republican governments. I consider the oro
pofition as an attack upon the rights of the states
and fliall therefore give my vote against it. '
Mr. Barnwell said he had no doubt of the cot*
uitutionahty of jhe propoficion—but he was of
opinion the prefenr was not th«r most eligi
ble time to exercise the power.—Still he was of
opinion that Congress ought now to declare that
it would exercise it at the expiration of the con
tracts which at present exist between particular
states and individuals, and he moved a proviso
to that efFeift.
Mr. Lawrance was in fentimentwithMr.Barn
well, and seconded his motion for adding a pro
viso, as above.
Mr. Clark objeded to the proviso—it was le
gislating on a fubjet'i wliich the House was en
tirely ignorant of—we do not know how long
those contracts are to exist ; why should we then
interfere in a business which we ought not to
do any thing about.—We may fee aside the Jaw,
or the state may abrogate it, but in either cafe,
the proprietors would be entitled to a full in
demnification. bis part, he thought the
House was getting into a maze—the bill has long
been under consideration, and we feeni tn make
no progress. I could wish, said he, 'that the
whole bill was buried, and that we might hear
no more of poft-offices and port-roads.
r - Venable controverted the conflitutionali
ty of an interference on the part ps Congress in
> efpeifi ro these monopolies—He observed that
the conftiturion was totally silent on the fubjedt
of paflengers, it limply relates to the tranfporta.
tion of lefters—And he conceived that the ope
lation of the proposition, would be to create mo
nopolies on the part of the United States.
I It was here contended that the proviso was
not in order—The Speaker said it was not in or
der—an appeal was then made to the House,
which voted that the proviso was in order—and
was then dif'cuffed.]
Mr. Wadfworth (aid he was opposed to both
the clause and the proviso, he conceived there
was no occasion for either—The (late of Con-
necticut has granted exclusive privileges to run
stages in that Hate—but has referred to ilfelf the
poxvei to annihilate those contracts at pleaftire ;
ai.d whenever the genera] government (hall make
pt ovifion for transporting the mai 1 on those roads,
those exclusive privileges will cease—and be did
not know but that this was the cafe in other
flares.
Mr. Livermore said the proviso was the mod:
extraordinary he had ever heard in his life—
we in the fir(t place in efFe<si abrogate certain
laws of particular Hates, and then by a proviso,
confirm those very laws.
Mr. Lawrance contended, that however extra
ordinary the proviso may appear to be, it was
ftridtlv proper—Contracts are not be violated —
once formed, they are sacred-—the dates had a
right to form those contraifls, and to grant those
privileges, and therefore the persons enjoying
thole advantages, cannot be deprived of them —
and though the general government has un
doubtedly a right to take the moll eligible me
thods for the transportation of the mail, yet the
rights of these people ought not to be violated.Mr. Gerry opposed the proviso—He said it not
only recognised the right of the refpe&ive dates
to pass such laws, as the firft pare of the clause
intends to abrogate, not only before, but subse
quent to the adoption of the constitution, which
he conceived involved an absurdity—On the ge
neral subject, he observed, thatthefe monopolies
were a tax, not only on the citizens of other
Hates, but of every state in the union—He con
ceived that no state poflefies any such power as
that of taxing the people of the United States.
Mr. Benfon remarked, thar the proviso was
improper and unneceflary—Should any conse
quences result from agreeing to the fir ft pare of
the clause, they will arise between the individu
al claiming the privileges and the state which
granted them, and mull be fettled by a judicial
decision.
Mr. Sturges laid he flioukl vote in favor of the
proviso—though he conceived that Congress had
a right to make such a law, as would in its ope
ration entirely fnpercede these contracts.
Mr. Findley said he was opposed to the provi
ftj., because it was legislating on improper princi
ples, or rather no principles whatever; for we
know nothing about those contrails.
On the question being put, theprovifo andpro
pofition were bnrh disagreed to.
\Lifl oj'T.eas and Nays, omitted in- the Minutes of
last Tuesday.-]
The question on striking one the provision for
a second enumeration and apportionment, palled
in the negative (yeas 22 —nays 35) as follow :
Meflrs. Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Clark,
Dayton, Fitzfimons, Gilman, Gregg, Hartley,
Heiiter, Jacobs, Kitchell, Learned, Livermore,
Miles. Schoonmajcer, Seney, J. Smith, I, Smith,
Sylvester, Tucker, Ward—22.
Messrs. Ames, Afhe, Baldwin, Barnwell, Ben
fon, Brown, Findley, Gerry, Giles, Goodhue,
Griffin, Grove, Huger, Key, Kittera, Lawrance,
Lee, Macon, Madison, Moore, Muhlenberg, Mur
ray, Page, Sheredine, Steele, Sturges. Sunipter,
Thatcher, Treadwell, Venable, Wadfworth,
Wayne, White, Williamfon, Wyllis—3s.
The question on striking out the clause re
fperting inferring the ratio of thirty thousand,
was carried in the affirmative (yeas 33 —nays 26)
as follow
Meflrs. Ames, Barnwejl, Benfon, Boudinor, S.
Bourne, Clark, Dayton, Fitzfimons, Gilman,
Goodhue, Gregg, Grove, Hartley, Heifter, Ja
cobs, Key, Kitchell, Kittera, Learned, Livermore,
Macon, Madison, Niles, J. Smith, I. Smith, Steele,
Sturges, Sylvester, Thatcher, Tucker, Wadf
worth, Ward, Wyllis—s3.
Meflrs. Afhe, Baldwin, B. Bourne, Brown, Find-
Jey, Gerry, Giles, Gordon, Griffin, Huger, Law
ranee, Lee, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Pas;e.
Schoonmaker, Seney, Sheredine, Sterret, Snmp
ter,Treadwell, Venable, Wayne,White,William
-10n—26.
WEDNESDAY, January 25
Mr. Sterret laid on the table a motion for the
appointment of a committee to bring in a bill to
continue in force an art declaring r lie aflent of
Congress to certain ads of the States of Mary
land, Georgia, Rhode-Hland and Providence Plan
tations.
A motion, heretofore made by Mr. Dayton,
being called up and agreed- to, with an amend
ment, it was " Resolved, That the President of
the United Stares be requelled to cause to be laid
before the House the official communications,
which have taken place between the Governor
of the State of Pennsylvania and the Secretary at
War, with relpetft to the raifingof troops within
and under the authority of the said State : and a
committee was appointed to wait on the Prefi
dent with the above resolution.
The House then resumed the confederation of
the bill to ascertain and regulate the claims to
half-pay and invalid pensions ; and having fur
ther amended the fame, ordered it to be engros
sed for a third reading. .Adjourned.
THURSDAY, January 26,
An engrofled bill, to ascertain and regulate the
claims to hall-pay, and to invalid peniions, was
read a third time, pafled, and feut to the Senate
for their concurrence.
Mr. Boudinot laid on the table the following
motion :
" Relolvcd, That the dignity, gratitude, and
juftiee of the general government Require, that
a suitable provision be made for the widow and
orphan children of the late Major Gen. Greene,
in consideration as well of his very great and me
ritorious services in the field, as of his patriotic
exertions and personal influence in promoting
and supporting contracts for supplying t he south"
em army with cloathing and rations, at a time
mid crisis when in danger of disbanding for want
YEAS
NAYS
YEAS
NAYS
of these eflential neceflaries — and that a commit
tee be appointed to bring in a bill for that pur
pose."
Mr. Macon laid on the table the following
motion :
" Resolved, That the prayer of the petitioi
of Catharine Greene cannot be granted."
The House then resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole—( Mr. M uhlenberg in the chair]
—on a bill making provision for the protedlioi
of the frontiers.
[Tlie bill, besides completing the regiments
nlrt-ady on tlie continental establishment, con
templates the raising of three additional regi
ments of infantry, each to consist of 912 non
commiflioned officers, privates and musicians, ex
clusive of cominiffioned officers; arid one squa
dron of light dragoons (to serve occasionally as
infantry) confiding of 304 non-commissioned of
ficers and privates, besides commiflioned officers.]
After fonie debate on the encreafe of the mi
litary establishment, the committee rofe,and ob
tained leave to fit again—and a reading of some
of the confidential communications from the Pre
sident being called for, the gallery was ordered
to be cleared.
FRIDAY, January 27
Sundry petitions praying for pensions, com
pensations, &c. were read, and referred to the
Secretary of War.
The Speaker laid before the House a letter
from the Treasurer of the United States, inclos
ing a copy of his Indent account.
Mr. Sheredine laid a motion on the table to
the following purport —That a committee fhonld
be appointed to wait on the President of the Uni
ted States, to enquire of him at what time, if at
all, it will be agreeable to him that his confiden
tial communications refpetfting the western fron
tiers, (hall be publicly difcufled in the House.
Mr. White laid the following resolution, in fub
fta nee,on the table—Refolved,that whenever any
confidential communications are received from the
President of the United States, it shall be a (land
ing rule, that the House {hall be cleared of all
perfonsbut the members—also, when any mem
ber has any particular business to lay before the
House, which in his opinion requires secrecy ; in
the latter cafe the Hopfe shall proceed immedi
ately to take I nch business into confideration,and
determine whether it be of such a nature as to
render it proper that ic should be privately dif
cufled.
The order of the day being called for, on the
western frontier business—the doors of" the gal
lery were shut.
BOSTON, Jan. 16
Of the corps Diplomatique, in Portugal, none
fopport a more elegant style than Colonel Hum
phreys, the Resident from the United States—
and in bis attention to his countrymen, none can
exceed him. All his domestics are Americans—
His state coach was made at Philadelphia, and is
drawn by four beautiful American horses. His
Excellency, we understand, is shortly to be mar
ried to an accomplished young lady of Liibon—
poffefled of an immense fortune.—" The fair re
ward the brave."
His Excellency the Governor and Council, have
unanimously appointed the Hon. Thomas Dawes,
jun. Esq. a Judge of the Supreme Judicial Court
of this Commonwealth.
NEW-YORK, Jan. 24.
On Saturday evening the 2iit instant, the com
mittees appointed by the subscribers to the State
and Million Bank, met at Corre's hotel.
After communicating their refpecftive powers,
and conferring on the neceflity of another Bank,
on which themoft perfetft unanimity of sentiment
prevailed, the gentlemen who appeared on be
half of the Million Bank unanimously agreed to
present a petition to the legislature, praying for
an act to incorporate the two Banks in one, upon
such terms as they might deem expedient.
The two committees were then met by five
gentlemen appointed by the Merchants and Tra
ders to confer with them on the fame fubjecfl.
The committees fully and candidly explained to
those gentlemen what steps they had taken to
obtain a new Bank. These gentlemen, after ex
pressing their unanimous approbation of the mea
sures which had been pursued, informed the
committees that they should recommend to the
Merchants and Traders to present a similar pe
tition to the legislature. The gentlemen then
withdrew, and the committees adjourned.
By Order,
WALTER LIVINGSTON, Chairman
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Subscribers to the Coffee-Houfa in Second-Street, kept
by Edward Moyston, agreeable to a vore taken by the
comoanv present on Thursday evening last, are defircd to meet at
the Coffee Rooms this dav at one o'clock, to take into confideia
tion the propriety of Mr. Moyfton's letting said Coffee Rooms tor
the benefit of any individual, to the exclusion of others entitled
to hold Public Auctions within the City of Philadelphia#
315
Philadelphia, January 28.
Quebec papers, from 21ft Nov. to 2d Jan. Jnft.
indufive, received by the Edtror, contain 110 In
dian intelligence.
A conlidt'able shock of an Earthquake was felt
at Quebec the 6th of lalt month.—A letter from
Paul's Bay, to a mercantile house ill that citv
mentions, that 29 different lliocks were 1 elt at
that place.
1 he ISjew Constitution of Canada took place on
Monday the 26th December. This event wasce
lebiated by the French and Engliffi inhabitants
with the greatest demonstrations of joy The
public exhibitions, fellivities, orations, &c. &c.
were continued every day through the week.
That Province is divided into two Governments
upper and lower Canada.
Extract of a letter from Boflofi, Jan. 18.
" Our Legislature are now in session— but the
indisposition of the Governor prevents him from
submitting his communications, and they do not
seem disposed to carve for themselves. Their
attention will be much occupied by Boston af
fairs—Firft, the Theatre—the repeal of the law
against which, is wilhed for by near five to one
of the inhabitants. On this fubjedl, Dr. J
has come forward like a man—and at the town
meeting, drowned liis opponents in a flood of
oratory. are, however, many who oppose
the repeal ;—many of the Clergy have signed the
petition against the Theatre—some have lince
erased their names. I think their interference
is injudicious, and will much hurt their influ
ence, since the town, at two legal meetings, was
decidedly for the repeal. My conjeiflui es are,
however, that the law will not be repealed.
" The Bridges will also engage legislative at
tention. Allured by the desire of gain, and
prompted, perhaps, by chagrin, the party which
was the rival of the present Bridge, in the fiilt
application, have come forward with a petition
for a new Bridge—But a few of them engrofled
all the shares—This induced some who were dis
appointed, to open a new fubfeription, which
filled up in a few hours. These rival patties
have their refpetftive friends in both Houses.—
The Tontine will be opposed—but 1 guess will,
in the end, be incorporated.
" The loss of the brave officers and men who
fell in the Western Expedition, is universally la
mented in this town—lt is the theme of every
conversation, from the infantto the aged fire and
matron, On this town, the loss was severe—
Phelon, Newman, Warren, Balch and Cobb, may
be said to be citizens of it ; their circle of ac
quaintance was very large, and they were highly
refpecfied by all who knew them. Delighted
with the profpedt of an honorable career in a
military life, they seemed to have acquired the
heighth of their wiflies—and to be plucked thus
early, by a foe, unworthy the valour and intre
pidity, which was their bane, is an event which
fills our hearts with sorrow—and hard indeed
mult be our consolation, when it is derived from
the consideration, that killed outright, they did
not fuffer the torturing cruelties of the savages."
(omitted IN OUR. LAST FOR WANT OF ROOM.]
Observations have lately been published to
(hew, that there is a difference of opinion on
the fubjecft of manufactures, between the Se
cretary of State, and the Secretary of theTrea
fury. To prove this, recourse is had to a passage
in Mr. Jefferfon's " Notes on Virginia," in which
he has laid " Jet our work-shops remain in Eu
rope, &c. this work was published several years
ago —and a correspondent remarks, that it may
as well be inferred, that Dr. Franklin was op
posed ro the Constitution of the United States,
because he had been at a remote period—the au
thor of a very different scheme of government,
as that the Secretary of btate is opposed to ma
nufactures, in the present eligible ftuation of our
country, because at a less auspicious period, he
said fomethingto that purpose. The Secretary of
State is a great friend and patron to the mechan
ic arts—but these arts derive their value and im
portance principally from their applicability to
manufactures.
APPOINTMENTS—BY AUTHORITY.
January 24, 1792.
The Prcfident of the United States has appointed, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate,
William Carmichael and William Short, to be
Commiinoners Plenipotentiary for negociating and concluding
with any person or persons duly authorized by his Catholic Ma
jesty, a Convention or Treaty concerning the Navigation of the
River MifljjTippi by the Citizens of the United States.
Died —In this City, Mr. Gosvinus Erkelens, of Amster
dam—an active patriot and decided friend to the United States.
At Alexandria (Virginia) Dr. William Brown—a most
e-ili triable character.
PRICE CU RRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 25/" P r */-
3 pr. Cents 15/
Dcfered 6 pr. Cents 15/3
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificate* 2<?y
Indents
Bank Stock—whole fliares 65 per cent.
125 pr. cent.
?5 do
-76* do.
110 do.
70 do.PARIS, October 9.
YOU will fee that the new Legislature verify
the character which I anticipated. The
difcuflion of yesterday, 011 the verification of their
powers, dil'played their democratic features, for
every one of the contelled elections were decid
ed in favor of the known friends of that party.
The cafe of the Abbe Fauchet was very llrong—
and perhaps a principle (a bad principle 1 allow)
was facrificed in his favor. Bot though they
have so much of this tendency, I do not appre
hend that they will trench on the monarchy,fur
ther than by loading the civil lift with more of
the public expences than now belong to it. This
civil lift is a dreadful fubjetft of alarm to the pa
triots, who affecfl to fee in it the utter ruin of
the constitution. Englilhmen will finile when
they are told, that this tremendous civil lift is no
more than 1,250,0001. sterling, out of which his
Majesty has to maintain 1800-Guards, besides to
keep up an immense houfliold.
This morning the scrutiny for a President and
Secretaries is not yet over, but it is believed that
the virtuous writer M. Paftoret, will be the firft
eletfted President. It is a tribute justly due to
his talents and patriotism. The ballot lies be
tween him and M. Garancoulon.
You may easily conceive that the appearance
of the Aflembly on the firft day was truly inter
esting. An entire new set of men, whose faces
were unknown, coming all at once to replace
the other, was a lingular and unprecedented cir
cumstance—and it was rendered more so by the
accident, that the several men who, but the day
before had been the leading atfiors in deciding
on the fate of the empire, were, in their renew
ed character of simple citizens, placed as centi
nels at the doors of the Aflembly which they had
been accustomed to agitate and influence.—M.
Dander, in particular, who had been the chief
mover of the Aflembly, and the leader in all
questions, stood ns a Corporal of the National
Guard.
Such is the spirit of that Aflembly which is de
parted, and which will be memorable to the lat
eft period of time ! That Aflembly who demo
lilhed the most powerful delpotifm of Europe
who triumphed over the ancient opinions, and
the most inveterate prejudices of men—over the
power of the king, the nobles and the church—
over public force, court intrigue, and ministeri
al corruption—who preserved an even tenor a
midst the cabal, the calumny, and the rage of
party within—the menaces of all the crowns of
Europe from without—and who, having fubfti.
tuted a government of freedom, peace and eco
nomy, in the place of despotism, ambition and
waste, finally pronounced on themselves a sen
tence of diflolution, and returned back to the
humble duties of private life.
Even in this honorable condition they arepur
fued by the fame implacable malice that was e
ver adtive against them—and every wall is cover
ed with insipid placards against them. Their
answer is fliort and fatisfatftory—" Read the Con
stitutional a<ft, and judge us by our woiks."
YORK, January 18.
Last Monday night, between the hours of seven
and eight o'clock, Mr. James Tate of Marfli-
Creek settlement, in this county, was attacked
by two trmed foot pads, on the road leading from
Peach Bortom Ferry, within a mile of this boro'
and robbed of his saddle-bags, which contained
a large futn of money in ca/h and bank notes, a
miniature pirfture, fee in gold, and some wearing
apparel. The saddle bags were found the next
morning in the woods, a few rods from the place
where the robbery was committed, bereft of its
enntents.
fosi-OfncE, Philadelphia, Jan. 24, 1791.
LETTERS forthe Briti(h Packet, the Queen, Capt. Rat
e'liff, for Falmouth, will be received at this office until Tuesday
morning thegiiliuft. at 8 o'clock.
, American Apollo.
SUBSCRIPTIONS ?OR the AMERICAN APOLLO,
A new Publication, just commenced in Boston,
ARE RECEIVED BY THE EDITOR HER EOF
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New FaGory
where they have now made, and ready for f*Je, a general affort
inent ofSHOT of all (izes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englilh workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufa&ured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, '-n Virginia. AH orders addressed to either of the
above Fa&ones, will be thankiully received, and executed on the
{horteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, meaus of conveyance being provided, and
booses for their reception.
For funber particulars enquire of Messrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as abovT.
PhHsdeipkia, Dzccnbrr 3,1791. tf
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
N'O. 26, Pt A *-ST B I ET,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be fere every day, until Jive o'clock, r. m.
Among them are the foHoiong :
Folio. T TOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch, EuCebiu* Soio
n men, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater,
cuius, Phriv, Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceronis. Btblia Junii and Tremrllli, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulc— Phavorini—Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, Volfii Etymo
logicon, Annquit. Ecdcf. Sriunnirz, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropjedia, Bentley's Hoiace, Terence and
Phsdrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hcderici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Grans. Cluve
rii Geographia, Justinian Code, lee.
OElavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Ariftopbanes, Longioui,
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poetz minores Gr. Ifocrales, Fhalaris, var
rims editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid.Tibullus, Plau
tus, Luean, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Aufonios, Buchanan,
Silluft, Curtius, Flopus, Juftin, Val. Maximt», A. Gfllius, JJitt.
August. Scriptores, Englijh and French Tranjlatiovf of feme of the
CUllics, a great variety of Greek and Latin Grammars, dcc. &c.
(pT Catalogue? may be had of MeOVs. Rice it Co. BonkfcHers,
Market-street, or of JOHN CAREY.
October 31. , (ep tf.)
Public Securities,
Bought and Solo, on C O MM I SS IX) N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street,next door to the Bank, No. 97.
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19, •
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market Streets
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER k AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
[PUBLIC DEBT of everydercripuon,on£a*»ni^Fb«r,
at the following rates:
ON the specie amount of all sales at auction, one eighth pei
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchase, ore.he J per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For makingtraosfers at ditto, JevrnU-jive cents per transfer.
(£3~ Such persons as may incline to favor the fubferiber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with puiduatils,
fidelity and difpetch. His long experience and extensive dealings
a the public (locks, together with a well established correspon
dence throughout the Unned States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN' PiSITARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
0 Sober 1,5, 1791
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KTDD, late of the
Townfliip of Benfelem, in the County of Bucks,
Esquire, deceased, pursuant to the Directions
of his last Will and Testament.
OM Tuefdav the 27th of March next will be exposed to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, on the premises —One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, fuuate on the river Delaware; on
which is er«tted a hand Tome two-dory brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good barn,ftables, hay-hoofe,
and other convenient outhoufc s. A good orchard of the bed kind
of grafted fruit,now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and in good order; and a (had and herring fifhery before the door.
This place is remarkably well limbered, has a fufficiencv of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the pod-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above; containing
about two hundred and seven acres, the greatest part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, (fables,
and other outhouses, with a young thriving orchard of the bell
grafted fruit, and a (had aad herring fifhery. It has long been a
well aecuftorard tavern ; and the ferry belonging to it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the bed profpc&s on the
liver, and are remarkably haalthy.
One other small Farm, containing about Gxty-thrre aerrs, Gtu
ate in the township of Southampton, in the county aforcfaid ; on
which are erected two log-houses. There is a small orchard, and
a great fufficiency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lot. containing four acres, fltuate on the great pod-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log dwelling-house, and work-lbop ad
joining, with a well ol excellent water at the door : now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the famr time and olace, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniture, Farming Utensils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchafc
money to be paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments with intcreft.
JOHN SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBIT, £ Executors.
(eptm s: 'i SAMUEL BENEZET.
TO BE SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant situation on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the fub
fenber now refide<; about 25 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvements, which area neat and commodious two ftorv house,
compleatly finiibed from the cellar to the garret, a kitchen, laun
dry, meat-house, dairy, two ftorv barn, and ice honfe. all finifljed
1 n the best mjnner, together with several other neceffarv outhouses,
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a (killful gardner now em
ployed inputting it in fine order; the land well enclosed with a
post and rail fence ; a well, and fprinjs of excellent water the
profpea is equalled by few, and excelled bv none in America—
il.< contiguity to Alexandria, the Federal town, and George.
Town, having a fine and full view of each place, tnuft render it in
a few yejrs of great value, being directly in a line of communica
tion from Alexandria to the other two towns. Should a purchaser
offer befoie the 15th of Febiuarv next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indilputable title.clearo! all incumbrances, wi'l be made
bv the fubfcribei. I will also fell with this place, 220 Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 miles oiftaiit, which will suit v.ell to sup-
the above n wood and timber.
if.-e-'
316
War Department.
January 2, 179^.
INFORMATION is hereby gitffcn to all the military invents
of the United Sates, that the sums to which they are inutled
for fix months of their annual pension, tiom the 4th day of Sep
tember, 1791, and which will become due on the sth day of
March, 1792, w»ll be paid on the said day by the Commiflioners
of the Loans within the states refpt&ively, under the ulual regu
lations, v z.
Every application for payment mufl be accompanied by the
o llowing vouchers.
tft. The certificate given by the (late, fpeei?yin» that the per.
son pofleiSng the fame is in faQ an invalid, and ascertaining '.he
sum to which as futhb* is armaally entitled.
2d. Anafßiivit, agreeably to the following form ;
A. B. came b<fore me, one of the Jufticisof the county of
intheftateof and mode oath rfrat he is the fame A. B. to
whom the original certificate in hisoodfcffiao wis 2'ven, of wbich
the following is a copy (the certificate given by the ftaie to be re
cited) That he served (cgpment, corps or veflel) at the time he
was disabled, and that he n6w tefides in the and county of
and has resided there for the last years, previous to whith he
resided in
In cafe aa invalid Qieuld far piymmt by »fl attorney, th»
said attorney, befidesthe certificate and oaith before recited, (baft
prod ace a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form;
I, A. B. of county of ftaxe of do hereby con&i
ntt a«d appoint C. D. of my lawhrt attorney, m rtrtire in my
behalf of my .pMfioo fw-fi* month*, as an invalid of the UA*.
ted States, from the fourth day of September, one thotrimd fevea
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand fevtn hundred and nioity-twe.
Signed and feaied
in the prefeuceof
Witnenes,
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adroiniftrators must be aceomp?-
nied with evidence of their refpe&ive offices, and also ot the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the President of the Untied States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War,
The Printer* in the refpe&ive dates are to publifti
the above id their newspapers, for the fpaee of two month's.
A'NNAfOtIS, Jauuor) 1, 1792.
A'- a Meeting of the Yifirorsand Governors of S?. John''s College,
in the State of Maryland, ou Thurfcay the 10th of Novem
ber last.
RESOLVED,
THAT this Board, at the quarterly in' May next, pro
ceed to elect a Vicc-Princio?l of St. J ->hn's College.
" That it be the duty of the Principal ind Vice-Principal, to
teach some of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek. cena?n
parts of the Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural Philoso
phy; and that the departments of the said Principal and Vice-
Principal (hall heieafter be aicertained with preciGon, n« consi
derations of their mutual convenience and refpeftive qualifications.
That the Vice-Phncipal shall be entitled to receive, for his fcr
vices, a salary of three hundred and fifty pounds, current money,
rating dollars at yjb each, to be paid quarterly.
That persons desirous of, and qualified for the appointment of
Vice-Principal,be, by public advertisement, requeued to make ap
plication to Mr. Charles Wallace, Mr. Charles Carroll of Carroii
ton, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hanfoo, all of the city of Aona
polis. By order of the Board,
JOHN THOMAS, President.
N. B. The fundamental Laws of St. John's College prohibit ill
preference on account of religious tenets or opinions.
A a the appointment of a Vice-Principal is alone wanted, to
eompleat the plan of this rising seminary, the Boa id will ccrtainly
proceed to the elefiion at theQated time; provided a person qua
lified, in their judgment, for this important (latioo, can be pro:
[cured. The pcrfonal attendance of the candidates, although not
positively required, willbe obviously proper.
It may be ufeful to remark, that the salaries of all the profefloi j
and teachers have hitherto beta paid with entire punctuality ; arid
that the funds of St. John's College produce a certaiu annual in
come, superior to all the appropriations, wh;ch hsve been, or pto
bablv will be made.
• ((3* The Printers of newspapers throughout the United State;,
are earnestly rrquefted to insert the above resolve and remarks—
and to repeat the publication as often as convenience will permit.
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worcefler, Maflachufetts, rood tefped.
fully informs the public, that he has this day completed the
Old and New Testaments of his Roval Quarto Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, &c. will be finifii
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subsc ri ft ion Paters, he will
returnthem to hirrot Worccjlcr, or to him and Company at 80/loa,
by the lad day of November next, and as much sooner as they con
veniently can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highed approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, its correttuefs, and its cheapness compared with Engliih
copies of the fame size and quality.
As this very laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
ts carried on folelv at his own cost, he is led to hope that all those
who wish to possess a large Family Bible, will so far encouragethu
laudaMe undertaking of their couutiyman, as to add their names
to the fubfeription.
WorceJler % Sept. 29, 1791
TO 3 E SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paving Gold at the Bank of the
L'nited States, fhewinsj the Value of Gold in Dollars and
Cents, fram One to a Thojfand Pennyweights—according to the
A& of Congrefi, ascertaining the Standaid and Value of Gold.
r?T The JOURNAL of the THIRD SESSIONef the SENATE
of the UNITED STATES, may be had of the Editor hereof.
ADVERTISEMENT.
{BY lit ? an ivals from France. the Editor has received frsi
No. 10/131, both 'ndvjive. of a Publication which cones out twiu*
neei in Pzris, entitled. * i Correspondakce Natiokale."- —
Ft on No. 1 to No. 10. have been Jk':pped, but are rot yet come to hard.
An\ per/on u+o ma\ incline to fubjcribefor this nvri, which appear; to
be i-jenious. impartial and patriotic* may be fumfhed with the numbers
as thev arrive h mbMxmf to the Editor of this Gazette.
f?3~ Blank Powers to receive 'Atlitfcreft, andfor their anjir ej tke
orio:ipal of publ.c agreeable to the Rules efiabbjred in tnc J '<&-
fury Department: A'fo BUnhs for abflraHs of tobejoldbt
■ Fditor.
JC7* The price of this Paper is 5 Dollars per a in
ISAIAH THOMAS.