[No. 1 8,.0f Vol. IV.]
TRANSLATION OF
M. ANDRE CiIENIER's LETTER }
Publijhed in the "Journal d£ Paris,"
9 f lc of May.
Citizens ! on this day when a deplo
rable and Ihameful eveut, at ihe commence
ment ot 'he war, has severely admoniftied us of
the value of wisdom and rcafon, let us guard against
that ficklenefs ol mmd which has always appeared
so be the ch uicV rillic ot our nation.—The leaf!
success elevates our hopes, to a degree borderi.v
on soliy :—The leall repuife plunges us into del
fp.:ir.—Buv. it in the midit of a well-minded grief,
we are willing at last to examine maturely the mis
fortunes which have just befallen us, and firmly
»ppl ; y those certain remedies which these misfor
tune tin ms ivrs point out, we shall have no realon
to oe discouraged. Let us only open our eyes
let us icmfniht r iiat fortune and chance arecmpty
founds : —That success is the rewaid of good con
duit ; that the rcveite is the chastisement due to
imprudence.—Since we have negle&ed thecounfel
of wisdom, let us at lealt profit by the errors or
which lhe had lorewarned us. Lei the pafl cor
reti the ♦uiuie ; and then, not only tne melancho
ly fcencs which we lament, will cease to bean un
lucky omen, but they will rather be a beacon
placed at tne entrance ot a dangerous channel, to
caution us to quit it oS soon as poflible.
Till now. A.i men who saw with terror the re
laxation ot discipline tn our armies, who saw dif
ooedience and n volt reduced to system and become
our rniii.at y code ; the foldlery encouraged to Im
biue in Clubs the molt dcteftable principles— or
the rr.oft pernici' o and talle conclusions from true
pi uciples ; 11:(. Generals difgulted 111 a thousand
ways—mful ed, chaled, struck, alldllinated with
impuniry, and always condemned unheard ; —the
foidiers always excused, juftified without inquiry,
applauded ai.d rewarded when they ought to have
been pumihed—r hose whs have Jeen with terror
such things, who loudly lamented them, and who
wou'd have had us look then fatal consequences
in the face, p fled (if not for traitors} at least for
men governed by old prejudice.-, incapable ot ex
panding theii minds to our new plans of Govern
ment, or of rifmg to the he ighth ol a Revolution',
But on the conrary; thole men, infulced every
day by a crowd « i merct naiy wretches, were,and
always will be, friends of their country, friends of
humanity and of the laws ; who infteod ot at
tempting by furious declamations, to flatter the
paflions ot a ; -y and ignorant multitude, employ
the.r ieifure and their r-tle&ion in Audying history
and the nature ot things.
They know that when men arm d and embo
died are not confined within the rules jnd limits
of exact discipline, debauchery, thoughtleirner.s, ,
and a contagious indolence, loon enervate their
minds and their bodies,—They know that want
of luboi dination in armies, partakes of the essence
of delpolic empires ; in which the foidiers, at
least sometimes, revenge the wrongs of the people,
but aiways do lo by producing evils still greater ;
and that free nations,who have done greater things
than others in war, have obtained their fuperion
ty by the rigid auiteiity of their discipline.— You
may quote as an example of the contrary, those
very enemies agairtil whom we now fight. But
have thole Germans received the military art from
their fathers, or have they borrowed it eliewhere ?
Do their armies resemble thole of the ancien:
northern Hordes, or are they governed by jule.
to thole the Roman armies ?—Let no
one then treat the German or PrufTian discipline
with a deiilion equally itupid and proud ; and let
them .earn to imitate despots in thole things, in
which despots have imitated free people.
Let us then, since it mult be so, cast a glance up
on the horrible and fharoeful event with which
we have stained the commencement of this war.
I do not remark that French joldicrs have fled;
lor the circumstances which followed were such
that one no longer thinks of reproaching them
with their flight. They have alLflinated their
chiefs ; they have mallacied unarmed prisoners.—
Do lucii horrors compote the history ot Jree peo
ple, or that of eafterri tyrannies ? It is in the latter
that armies resemble thole wild bealts which they
tame 111 the fame countries, to prepare them for
the chafe ; but which, when they are in want of
prey, return furious and lhike tin ir keepers with
tenor. '1 is there that Generals are butcher d,
that prisoners are cut to pieces, that prisons and
ftiong caltks are the or*iiy asylums to which Am
balladors and peaceful Urangers can fly for ihel. er,
a gain ft the violence of an enraged populace. Is it
there we would look for example? And are
french tioops becoming Janizaries f
If any thing can yet farther excite the
•f evtry truly patriotic heart, it would be the tune
and dilcou.lt* of all thole odious fanatics, of all
thofr vile turbulent demagogu. s that fill tiic clubs,
whom the evil genius ol Ftaiue has railed and fup
portsagair.lt tier.—Thcnu have aii our misfortunes
proceeded. There, have I.een 'onu-med
and want ofdifapline. Tnere, has rebellion ben
lawful authorities; hatred to
every virions ttyn ; prnteaion to all mali-faito.*.
They have alrendy out on the tomb of tile
unfortunate DILLON', and the companions of his
tall, atrocious and bafc ; which, for
four yean pafl, are the only expiations which
na»e followed the murder of so many victims la
cuSced by the friends and retainers of these fociev
t ' e j- Dcuht not that the authors of so manV dis
orders let every inßrumeot at work to prolong
them • doubt not that they will contend for revolt
•nd '.[under. As for their altars arid fire-fides
nouut not they will afcufe the Rights oj Man as a'
Preteit for , rocutn.g impunity to thofc who de.
sad malfaci* their Generals. Doubt opt (hat
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
Wednesday, August i, 175)2.
those fa!fe atid ferocious p us, which insult their
country by calling themielves patriotic* will la
bour and lliive, after the firft transports of our
grief fhail bepuft, to intercft us for the fate of sol
diers who could make no oLher use of their arms
than in assassination ; and to tell us, that in truth
it was only an trior, but that the chiefs were aris
tocrats, and that the aimy was fold. It will not
be for want of their efforts, if we do not hear some
buffoon pieparing a Triumph to those cowardly
murderers.
Allyewhofe fouls can feel what is honorable
and good ; all ye who have a country, and who
r.nuw what a country is; who knew what you
laid when you swore to defend it, and with whom
to " live or to die Jrcc" are not words withodt
meaning ; Oh, French citizens, alt ye who have
Sons, Wives, Parents, Brother s* Friends, with
whom and tor whom you wish to conquer ; with
whom or before whom you arerefolvcd to die,
how long {hall we talk of our liberty in order to
remain Haves to impious fa&ions ? Raise then
your voice, shew youi selves, let the nation come
forward, and annihilate all those troops of ideols
who usurp its name ; and w.ho, commanded by
knaves, will destroy us if you <so not all put forth
your hands. This is the only moment that re*
mains, this the pfccile moment in which we are Co
dccide the future. Evil (hall it be to us, it we (hut
the car to the fir it warning that war has given us.
If our condutl 15 courageous and wife; if our re
presentatives display, on this occasion, the grand
charadler of equity, constancy, and vigour, worthy
ol them and of us ; if those regiments of the line
who have acted with French courage, if that bat
talion of spirited National Guards, whom the city
ol Paris shall have eternal honor in having given
birth to ; in a word, it all the warriors who be
haved as good soldiers, as good citizens, as free
men, are commended and rewarded as they merit
—if those who abandoned their General shall be
chafed with ignominy, deprived for ever of the
ufc of arms and ol the rights of citizenship ; —if
the muidercrs of their commander s shall meet con
dign puniffiment ;—if the villains who mafTacred
I unreiiiting prisoners are given up to thfe hostile na
tion— in Ihort, to let all Europe know that the
French people disavow this right borrowed from
the manners of canibals, and that they have not
recovered their liberty in order to make war like
barbarians ;—if the law invest our Generals with
all the power nece-flary to prelerve in their armies
a Hi i£l difciplin , and punish them for improper
tenderness rather ihan for rigour ; —ifjuftice be al
ways attainable, and the immediate confenuence of
the crime ; —it tne intolerable audacity of tht fe
usurping fraternities be reprefFed ; —if the proje&s!
of our Generals, the march of our armies, the pians
of attack,before their execution, cease to be objects
ofdifcuffion in clubs—the present evil may be easi
ly »epaircd—our Generals may recover confidence
and our troops regain their own eftcetn, as well
as that of foreigners. The loft oja pojl is a matter
of uidiftcrence, but the honor of France has been
more brought mqueftionby these detelfable adtions
than it had been for ages part.
II m place of this, our Legislature (hall be indo
lent and weak, where juftjee and firmnefs alone
can lave „s, what officer, having a foul and talents,
would wish to remain in such an army?— What
General wilh to command troops capable of affaf-
Jinating tlie man whom they have previously dis
honored ?—Where is the citizen that would rot
to makewa, ori an enemy to whom unpu
nilhed massacre would give a right to make retalia
tion, linlefs they choole to conquer us by generosity
and virtue ? And what people would not confidt r
theniltlves just in defpifirig another, which, in be
coming free, lor gets ihe manners of civilized life
and diwefts themfc lvei ul humanity ?
Behold then what every Frenchman ftiould fay
to nimfelf, and fay to his fellow Frenchman, in
repelling with lhameand igoominy all infamous
'"""'l ™ ho to render a useless example ol
ihis hi ll lelTon of misfortune.
Ye to whom .he withes of your fellow-crizen,
have trnfted the deftly of the empire, it is nme
to lee and to found the pr ctpice toward which
we drive W'th such great ftridc*. You have too
long lillcned to those who call a hatred ot all Cub
ordination patriotism, the impuniiy of all crimes
liberty ; who have futernal feelings for thole a
looe who are banditti or murderers; and who
iek 01 tne reputation of humanity in their pity
v'i'lai ns, wh ch is an insolent derision of all
:;ood men. Rcrollefl that nothing i s more hu
mane, more indulgent, more delightful, than the
Ivere inflexibility oljuft laws ; nothing more cru
el, more unpuiable, tnan clemency to criminals •
that there is no liberty which is riot held undei
aws, nothing as despotic or as fangulnary as
Legislators ! France has undertaken, with
courage and alaciiiy, a war, the fu cess of which
jhallfecurc its own liberty and that oi Ejrcpe at
ice. I, is for France to furnifh its army, hut it
is you is to orgai.ize it, and in order to this you
mull both creaie and repair.
-t is your duly—you are charged to prevent
rrenchmen from having made a frivolous and
vain oatn, when they swore to defend" their liberry
against all its enemie-. Foreign Dcfpots, at the
lame time that they lellusthey do not wilh to m
u.war dare.odia.teto refptfiing the kind
ol Coultuution under which it pleases them that
we (hould live-tegiOatou! it is for you to decide
wheticr thcie contumelious proportions shall
have the force ol laws, or whether they (hall mere
1> Ik come ridiculous bravadoes. Recollect that
an undisciplined army 14 terrible only to its own
country.
ANDRE CHENIER,
69
From a late Englifli Paper.
EPISTLE,
Fiora Napper Tandy, in Dublin, to Tommy
Pain e, in London.
I3eAR To 4 ;f my this comes from the ifiand of
Saints,
Where Nappe i is making a thou land complaints,
'Gainst Law ar„i Religion, Vicegerents and Kings,
And Bishops anil Judges, and such odious things ;
And happ) he is not alone to complain,
But in concert to growl with his dear Tommy Paine.
You have heard how Ichalleng'd a Manof the Law,
And efcap'd by a Trick from the Messenger's Paw,
How they took me again, and refufmg all Bail,
Sent your poor Napper Tandy difgraceful to Goal.
But ecod I'll be up with these Great Legifl.itors,
And make them submit to our new made Diftatdrs.
You ' now Who I mean, and how easy the way lick,
The jacobin Club that alembic at Daly's.
Please God ere its long, every Man in the Realm,
Shalt each take in his turn and dire£l the State
Helm ;
And your Do&fine no longer be any man's scorn,
For you know, my dear Tciti % 14 We arc equally
born,"
And that he who this moment is ploughing the
land,
Has a right in his turn our Helm to command.
Nor is the day distant when you, Thomas Paine y
Of the Government of England (hall hold the
chief Rein ;
And I, Napper Tandy, (hall joyfully sing,
" I'm greater in Ireland than Viceroy or King"-
So keep up the Ball—and write ilrong as you can,
In favor of France, and her new Rights of Man.
P. S. As I've loft being Sheriff, next Michaelmas
dav.
I mean on your fide the water a vifir to pay ;
And my Wife fays (he'll go, her fancy so itches
To fee if (he knows the Combujlible Breechcs ;
Those Breeches, Oh, Tommy, how dismal the tale !
That just in the critical moment (hould fail
Those dear Galligafkinsthat had they been burn'd,
Your whole Constitution must be overturn'd :
tfor your Lords and your Commons would cer-
tainly fall)
And the four Courts of Justice inWeftminfter-Hall.
To the tunc of ca in, the Mob would all Dance,
And England be just such a Country as Francc.
OF Q_U AC K DOCTORS.
AN EXTRACT.
From the Bojlart Independent Chronicle.
' T 75/ itA degree of knowledge can be rea-
V V lonably allowed this kind of" practiti
oners, .vhen fix or eight months are the extent
of time devoted to physical studies. Without
any other kind of knowledge, they turn over
many valuable volumes, written by the ableu
pens—and in the course of their pernfal,acquire
a number oi oid Latin phrases, and hard techni
cal terms, and then dole their books forever.
.Thus stored, in their opinion, with a fund of
uleful knowledge, they commence man-flayers.
Well might such men wear swords by their'ides
to ihow they have a commifTion to kill. Alex
ander was a celebrated warrior, who, through
his martial spirit, fheel rivers of human blood.
j.n like manner, £)uack Doctors, through their
ignorance of the force of medicine, and of its
operative effects upon the constitution, are 110
less diftinguiflied for man-flaughter.
" A lingular instance of this vice, arising
from this order of men, took place not long
since in the slate of New-Hampshire. A young
iad is thrown from a horse and wounded. ' The
be ft, as was thought, of the eight or nine doc
tors lefiding in the town, is called. While the
tender youtn, by an exprefiive wilh in his coun
tenance, asks a respite from pain, and relief
from his irioft distressing situation, and nature
w..its. patiently for human aid—the famous doc
tor arrives. He has the knowledge, as well as
the weeping parents, that something the youth
ails—But what it is, and the remed v, are equal
ly unknown to him. As something mail be
don?, he applies . Having given his
learned prescription, he mounts his horse in
great haste, to be gone. The anxious patents
.beg he would tarry a few moments. But to
avoid exposing his ignorance, both of the com
plaint of the youth, and its removal, he answers
" He will do well, I mufl visit another patient''
Thus the youth is left expiring, and made a fa
entice to the gross ignorance of a fa'lfe phy
sician."
[Whole No. 340.]
r I U R I f], April 25.
Notwithstanding the paci
fic afliirances given by this courc
in respect to the affairs of France,
there is every leafon to mifliuil its
obscure policy. A whole year ha»
now been spent in completing the
troops of the line, and belides chefe
the provincial regiments are arming.
These regiments form in the whole
an army of i$ or 16,000 njen, and are
so organized that the whole of tlieni
may be collected in a lew days. The
garrison of Nice is considerably aug
mented. Considering the exhauiled
(late of our treasury, however, there
is reafou to think that all these pre
parations may be fylely meant tor in
ternal defence.
MARSEILLES, April 9.
The true patriots in Marseilles are
a majority of" its inhabitants ; but:
they are timid, and the primary af
feinblies have the affiirance to inti
midate their antagonists who are hoc
friends to anarchy. Whoever is not
a republican and anti-royalist is,with
them, an aristocrat j and this word,
like the head of Medusa, petrifies all
minds.
GIRONNE, (Spain) Jan. 12.
ADDRESS TO THE KING OF SPAIN,
Written by a gentleman of Traga, wha
travelled into France with the famous
Count d' Aranda.
Charles ! thy august Father gained
the affections of the Spanish nation by
a government founded 011 modera
tion : his reign was marked with
blefhngs, the memory of which will
never be effaced ; he bridled religi
ous despotism, and mitigated the ho
ly bai bariry of the intjuifhion. We
expecfted of a Prince, whose senti
ments announced philanthropy and
philosophy, that he would perfect
ihefe glorious beginnings : but,
Charles ! thou haft deceived the hopes
of thy people ; thou haft fuffered them
to languish under the iron sceptre of
monachifin, and the pride of Spain
feels the insult. Our allies, the
French, are free, and the report of
their glorious revolution hath struck
thy ears like a peal of thunder, and
made thee tremble on thy throne.
The (late dungeons, which thy au
gufl father had fhu c up, ha*e at thy
command been put to use, and thou
haft spread fear and diftrull; through
out thy wide domains ; the age of
Philip the Second is revived ; bur,
Charles ! listen to the voice of a des
cendant of Cortes, listen to the voice
of Spain entire ; restore to thy peo
ple those rights which God and na
ture bellowed on them, if you desire
not to fee them seize on them by
lorce ; fnut up forever those gloomy
mansions of de/olation, where sacer
dotal vengeance offbis up its human,
lacrifices 10 a God of mercy ; give us
up the liberty to fpeafc and think ;
none but a tyrant can dread the truth,
and surely ihou canst not desire that
so execrable a name should descend
linked with thine to posterity ; con
template the miserable condition of
our lands, bj nature the nioft fertile
in Europe ; tuj fleets bring into our
ports the gold of Mexico and Cufco,
but thy peeple are poor and without
industry ; within these ten years
three great nations have atchievecl
their liberty, and Spain rests llill in
slavery ; we have driven away the
courageous Moors, and fuffered our
selves to bemaitered by the monks
Oh ignominy ! oh shame I—Charles,
thoti art the richest monarch in the
univer/e, be also the 1110 ft glorious,
the must just, the inoft beloved ;
(new tltyfeif worthy of commanding
the Spanish nation, of reigning over
ft eemen ; think on thy true intcreft,
think 011 the energy of the nation,
„.1 _ .CHARLESTON, July 17.
Saturday last, being the anniverfa
ryof the French revolution, the mem
bers of the French Patriotic Society,
with several other.French gentlemen,
defcendaots from French families,
and other fiiends of liberty and the
French constitution, agreed to cele
brate the return of that "auspicious
day, by dining together in public ;
in order to unite, by that means, thein
felves, their femiments and affec
tions with their brothers in France.
At noon they went to the Church
the French Protestants to alfift at the'
tt Deum, which was sung there. Af
ter the te Deum Mr. Cofte preached
a very eloquent sermon. When the
ceremony was over, they returned to
the Exchange, where Mr. Luby de
livered a discourse, well adapted to
the occasion.
The discourse being finifiied,at three
o'clock they fat down to an elegant
dinner. Good humour and chearful
refs prevailed until the moment of
reparation
A numberof convivial and patriotic
songs were fang, and during the .en
tertainment the following toasts were
given
1. The memorable 14ih of Ju bV7 8 9
2. The National Afleinbly of France.
3.' The federal, army.
4. The agriculture and commerce
of France.
5. The United States.
6. The American Congress.
7. The President.
S. The heroes, Washington, La
Fayette, Rochambeau and Luckner,
defenders of Liberty.
9. The memory of the worthies who
have fallen in fupporc of the rights
of mankind.
10. May the alliance between France
and America be eternal.
11. The English Nation.
12. The Polish Nation.
13. To the memory of Montesquieu
Voltaire, Rofleau, Franklin and Mi
rabeau.
14. Paine, M'lntofli, the author of
the Leflons to a young Prince, and all
other -ad vocates for the rights of man.
IJ. The State ps South-Carolina
16. May the bountiful genius,which
enlightened ihe French people, en
lighten in like manner all the peo
ple of the earth (who groan under
the yoke of Kings) and give them a
fufficient degree of energy to produce
theTr regeneration.
17. May liberty and peace forever
reign unbounded on the globe.
18. All the patriotic societies.
After funfet,an elegant transparent
painting by Mr. Odin, was exhibted.
Mr. Fereaud, Captain of a French
vefl'el named Le Bois de Cery, of Mar
seilles, and Mr. Guillantau, Captain
of the brig LesTrois Amis,of Nantes,
saluted the day with a discharge
of cannon on board of their veflels,
and hoitled thethreediSFerent colours,
American, English and French ; at
noon, when the members of the Soci
ety with the fubferibers, were repair
ing to the French church, they gave
another discharge ; they Sired at the
toasts, and terminated the day of the
feaft with repeated vollies.
The Governor, and the other chief
officers of the State, honored the com
pany with their presence.
BOSTON, July 21.
COMMEKI'EMENT, CAMBRIDGE.
The audience being aflembled in
the afternoon, His Excellency the
Governor was pleased to deliver the
following address :
Mr. President,
THIS Anniversary is calculated to
fill the bosom of Patriots with inex
prellible fatisfavftion, and to expand
the heart with the mod agreeable
sensations. Our virtuous ancedors
have long kept this fedival, under
the fublinie expectation of tranl'mit
ting the principles of religion, and
liberty to their poderity. We, Sir,
with transports enjoy the fruits of
their beneficence.
The love of liberty inherent in the
bread of man, has been regulated,
and refined by the ability acquired at
thisUniverfity. To this we are much
indebted for political conditutions,
■which if exercised with wisdom, can
not fail topref'erve the felicity of our
country
Those of us who are now on the
theatre of public life, exult in the
idea, that tlie walls ot Harvaid,
will, when we are no more, give to
our country in succession, men, who
(hall rake the people by the hand,
and lead them in the path of peace,
liberty, and fafety.
The advantages of this institution
have been acknowledged 111 various
partsof the world. The Universities
of European Nations have paid great
attention te the sons of Harvard ;
and the great, and good men of our
own State have ever considered the
interelV, and honor of the. Govern
ment, as inseparably connetfted
ifiat of this Seminary. They who l
love iheir country's, happinels, w'ill
cherish this lburce of Science. They
who delight in rational liberty, will
here cultivate the plant. And they,
who feel a zeal for true national glo
ry, will make this miiverfity the ob
jetft of their highelt attention.
The genius and learning exhibited
by the young gentlemen, who are
this day to receive the hoiiois of the
Univerfiry, afford us the fulleft aflu
rance of the advantages which the
public will derive from them. Our
bell withes accompany them into the
world. May they be a blefling to
their country. May they continue
to reflect honor upon this Seminary,
and upon your abilities, in the im
portant office which you foftain with
ib much dignity, and reputation.
May yon, Sir, continue to receiyethe
applause of your fellow-citizens :
And may your labors and the labors
of all who are connetted in the im
portant bnfinefs of the University,
continue to meet the public appro-
bation.
The degree of Doiftor of Laws,
was conferred on His Excellency John
Hancock, Esq. His Honor Samuel
Adams, Esq. the Honorable Alexander
Hamilton, Esq. the Honorable Francis
Dana, Efq—and the Hon. John Low
ell, Esq.
The degree of Doctor of Divinity,
was conferred on the Rev. Ebenezer
Gay, the Rev, Samuel Webster, the
Rev. Nathan Filk, and the Rev. Jere
miah Belknap ; and also on the Rev.
John Kemp, and the Rev. Thomas
Randall, of Edinburgh in Scotland.
The degree of Dodtor of Physic,
was conferred on Dr. John Sprague,
Dr. Ammi Ruhamah Cutter, and Dr.
Joihua Brackett.
The Rev. Samuel Lankton, theßev.
Abiel Holmes, A M. at Yale College;
and the Rev. Samuel Sumner, A. M.
at Dartmouth College, were admit
ted ad eundem.
This day arrived brig Paragon,
Hallet, matter, in J9 days from Cadiz.
—In lat. 38, long. 64, spoke the (hip
friendfhip, Smith, from Havre-de
Grace, bound to Baltimore.
Schooner Sally, Cobb, in 40 days
from Cadiz.—ln lat. 36 : 30. long.
IS : 30- spoke Ship Commerce, from
this port.
By the above arrivals we learn,
that great preparations for war were
making in Spain—a general war in
Europe being Strongly expecfted.—
That the Spaniards would act against
the French.
'Twas reported in Cadiz, that be
tween 14 and 15,000 French troops
were slain in one battle with the
Prufiians and Germans.—This report
was generally credited ; but when
the battle took place, or where, or
how many of the enemy fell, were
not mentioned. We therefore hope
and trust it will prove fallacious. It
is to be observed, that 110 newspapers,
or any periodical productions of a
political nature, are allowed to be
publiflied in Spain.
By the above arrivals we also have
accounts of the profpevfts of a mod
plentiful harved in Spain—all kinds
of provision were very low in Cadiz,
Flour was felling from five to fix dol
lars per barrel, lndia,n Com at half a
dollar per bufliel, Beef from seven
to eight dollars per barrel.
IC7" Coasters and others will be
pleased to take notice, that the chan
nel from Warren, into the Narragan
fett Bay, is completely flaked out,
by pofls set in the ground for that
purpose, on each fide, being in fever,
feet water, with hands pointing to
wards the channel—vell'els of any
conduction not more than one hun
dred tons, may come up the channel
loaded at low water, there being no
rocks nor sand-bars to intercept the
70
paflage—At high water the channel
bath 18 feet water.
PROVIUENCE, July sr.
Extrat7 of a letter from art Officer oj the
fecund United States Regiment, dated
Marietta, June 24.
" Contrary to every expe<fiation,
we have received 110 dilturbance from
the Indians, this spring, except in
one or two inltances ; and in thol'e,
our exertions have been such as to
Jeave a good impreifion of our ftrengch
—They are now employed in a grand
Talk, at' the Tawa River, for the
purpose of regulating their future,
proceedings. We are told from Head
Quarters that this extraordinary coun
cil confilts of 4000 members ! —a tri
bunal which may not improperly be
(tiled the Indian Areopagus. Two
flags have been dispatched by Gen.
Wilkinfon to found their difpofiiion,
at whose return we (hall be better
enabled to augur peace or war.
" A few days since were deposited
at this place the remains of General
Tupper. His funeral proceflion was
arranged after the honorary manner
of the late General Varnum's, the
body being preceded by the military
(tationed here, and followed by the
members of the Cincinnati, Judges,
Directors,Free-Mafonsand Citizens."
The amount of duties,")
which have been paid
and secured attheCuf-
toin-Houfe, on the Im-
portation of Goods 1 Dots. Cts
Wares, and Merchan- j 25,191. 96
dize, into the Diftriift
of Providence, from
January to June, 1792,
inclusive, is, J
Ditto on the Tonnage
ofVeffels, during the
fame time,
Total
ALBANY, July 23
The sales of about eleven hundred
forfeited military lots of land of jo
acres each, were closed on Saturday
last. The average price greatly ex
ceeded every calculation tor iix suc
cessive days ; which is attributed by
some to a redundancy of cash in the
State—by others, to an anticipation
of a rapid rife of property in the mi
litary country in consequence of the
profpeifl that the Inland Navigation
will be prosecuted with vigor, which
will tend to shorten thediltance from
that delightful and fertile country to
our market at least one half—or in
other words, that produce will (when
the canals are compleated) be trans
ported from thence to this city by
water, as cheap as it is now by land
from the German-Flatts. After the
surveying fees are discharged, it is
supposed that there will remain a sur
plus of 3 or 40001. which the Jaw has
expressly appropriated to be laid out
in roads and bridges, within the trail,
which will be a great acquisition to
that infant country, if timely and
judiciously applied.
From a correspondent in Herkemer county
Died—at Ncw-Stockbridge, in the
vicinity of Oneida, in the 69th year
of his age, the R.ev. Samson Occu m,
in a very sudden and unexpe<sted
manner. About a week before he
died he complained to his wife of a
very uncommon and diflrefiing pain
in his vitals, which occasioned a faint
nefs, bur it was soon over—A few
hours before his death the fame dif
order came on again, but *« before
soon left him—Afier which he eat as
hearty a dinner as usual, told his
wife he would ride to one of his
neighbors and get him to <vrcompany
him to a cedar swamp in search of
fume timber he was wanting his
wife in vain, remonstrated againlt it :
he went, and jurt before they came
to the swamp he told the manhemuft
rest—asked for water—drank—desi
red ihe man to call for help, which
he did—he then took off his coat and
as the man returned, he said I have
done—and appeared inclined to flesp
—asked his friend to eal'e him down—
which done, he folded his hands
across his bread, and expired in a few
minutes. On Sunday the 1 jth inft.
his remains were decent! v interred—
previous to which the Rev. Mr. Kirk
land preached his funeral sermon,
from Matt. xxiv. 44. —Upwards of
300 Indians, from different tribes,
attended.
WILMINGTON, July 2 t
Extrafi of a letter frem to. Luck, to a
gentleman in thil town, dattd J, nc g
1792- '
" The decrep in favor of the mO
- of colour occasions much fermen
tation here, and we apprehend it will
be attended with all the bad coufe
quences as at St. Domingo. God only
knows when we will enjoy peace and
tranquility. 1 have often wilhed to
be an inhabitant of the United States,
where it is said you enjoy perfeA
freedom. You will oblige me much
in giving your opinion if you really
are as free as the report supposes you
to be. lam led to this queltion, be
cause there are various opinions here
011 that fubjedl j a very sensible man,
and reckoned ainonglt us a good po
litician, is of opinion that you are
verging fact towards a very solid and
(hong aridocracy ; in support oi
which, he mentioned several instan
ces of infringements on the constitu
tion, the proceedings of your senate
in particular, and those of thediffer
enr departments; which, according
to his ideas, seem to colleague toge
ther to aflume all the power, and
leave to the people nothing but the
pleasure to support them in their
schemes and their extravagancies."
On Thursday lafl; tlie brig American. Hero,
Capt. M'Dougall, arrived in this port, in 36
diys from Havre-de-Grace. Me can learn but
fjw particulars by this vefful—a courier, how
ever, had arrived from 1 r.i iain Ir. e days before
(he (ailed, viz. or. the 20th June, who only in
formed, that no action had happened since thole
ofMons and Valenciennes; that the armier
were not far from each other ; that the'army
in general was deploring the delusion which oc
casioned Dillon's fate, and that difciplir.e was
an o'njeot much fought after', and desired by the
patriotic foldierv.
3051 9h
FROM THE FEDERAL GAZETTE.
25,497. Jt
THE subsequent fliort, tho melan
choly narrative, cannot fail of
exciting the fympaihy of the brave
and good wherever it may be read,
and wherever the fate of the three
amiable youths may be disclosed to
the heart and eye of sensibility.
Robert Sevier and William Sevier
were twin-biothers, " lovely and
pleasant in their lives, and in their
deaths were not divided." They,
with Valentine Sevier, their brother,
were sons of Col. Valentine Sevier,
of North-Carolina.
On the I jth day of January last,
influenced by motives of humanity,
they lent their voluntary aid to Capt.
Rice, whilst endeavouring to stem
the current of Cumberland river,
with all his numerous family, and
the small remains of an humble pro
perty, in order to escape the unre
lenting barbarity of savage foes whose
infiduous plans, while fkulkingin the
woods along the river, were too fuc
cefsful in lopping off from human ex
istence at one fire, and at the fame
instant the above named amiable
twin-youths and fraternal friendi. —
Valentine Sevier, their brother, fell
by the fire of the lavages the nexc
day ; who had gone upon a different
route, to render a service equally hu
mane and generous. Ye men of
fyinpathy, what must be your feel
ings for the keen diflrefsof a father,
in a few hours deprived of three pro
mising sons, not yet arrived to the
prime of manhood, and who promised
to be his stay and fupporc in the de
cline of life. Notwithstanding the
provocation, however, it is hoped the
friends of the deceased will manifelt
such a (hare of magnanimity, as ' ,ot
ro take vengeance on the innocent
for the ferociousatfloftheguilty,an
what may poflibly be held juftina 6
in their mode of warfare. The so
lowing stanzas were occasioned by t e
foregoing melancholy event,and may
be con fidered as a small, inadequate
tribute to the memory of decea e
worth and virtue:
IN the fame hour two lovely youths were bom,
Nature with care bad moulded fitter c a Y *
In the fame hour from this world s irnits '
The murderous Indian feiz'd their ives
Distress to aid, impell'd each generous J >r^*
With nervous a) m they ftemm'd adv *
In friendfhip's a& encounter'd deal 1 died
Blameless they liv'd, in honor's path they •
But ah ! what art shall dry a fath' r s | car *.
Loft, early loft '-no art beguiles hi. p,
Clouds (hade his fun,and griefs , - vanCC " ,
Nature gave joys, to wke thole jov. aga.D .
Thou, that (halt ttra" to these
When times to come then ftor) lh
Let the fond heart, that native wo "' L '. , .
Revere their virtues sod bemoan tl
N E \V-Y OR K, July 23For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
SNOWHILL, (IVorceJier County, Eajlern Shore cj \
MarylandJ fuly 26, 1791.
ON the 4th in It. being the sixteenth annivcrfary j
of American Independence, the *Franklia Soctets
of this place met at the Court-houie, at 9 o'clock,
A. M. to eelebrate the return ot that auspicious
day. The Society on this occasion, anxious to
promote that fpint ot tnendthip and general in
tercourse so necelfary to locial happtnefs, and actu
ated by a laudable delire ot communicating that
glow of enthufulra, that ardor for liberty, and in
ipinng those fentpneuts of bentvolencc towaids
each other, and gratitude to the divine Being, to
congenial to a haypy and tree people ; impelled by
thtle phiianftuopic motives, they departed from
their ulual privacy, and emblematic ot the expan
lion ot their teelings on tins happy day, they open
ed their douis to Hie malsot their fellow citizens.
A ictpettable audience having aiiuribled, the Yic
lident announced the intention ot the meeting in
a lhort addreis suitable to the occasion; aiie<
which the Declaration ot Independence, and Att
accompanying it, being read, Willi am Whi t
tincton, hiq. a member of the Socicty, role
and delivered a very learned, judicious aud patri
otic Oration.
The Socicty then proceeded to the difcullion ol
a political queltion—which being debat-d and de
cided agreeably to the regulations of the initia
tion, the audience were addrefTid in an elegant
and animated Valedictory Oration, by Mr. John
Dennis, ano.her member of the Society.
The Society then adjourned at 4 o'clock, P. M.
to dme and tpend the evening <>.t Mr. Smith'?
Tavern ; where thz spirit of friendlhip, social
mirth and good humour, so legibly depi&ed in
every countenance, united to heighten the joys of
this happy meeting. Alter dinner the following
patriotic Toasts weie drank, succeeded by the dis
charge ot cannon after each relpc£tively.
:. The Day. May the memory of it be chc-
Tilhed in the boiom of every true American, and
tranlmmed with applause 10 the laiett polterity.
2. The Pretident of the United States. May the|
mild iuttre ot his declining fun prove no less glo
rious than the effulgence of his rifmg, or the tran
scendent fpiendor of his meridian greatness.
3. The Governor and State of Maryland.
4. The Congiefs of the United States. May all
party and local views, inconsistent with the good
of our common country, be forever banithed from
that august assembly,
o -- J'
5. The memory of our illuurious countryman
3. Franklin — while we Tevere his name, may
wc emulate his chara&cr.
6. The Vice-President of the United States,
j. The Agriculture of the United States—-as it
is molt ufeful, so may it always be considered the
moil honorable occupation.
8. i'iie Commerce of the United States. May
its extended operations corineft us with every
quarter of the habitable globe.
9. The Manufactures of the United States. May
the wovk-fhops ot America rival and excel those
o* Europe,
to. The Arts and Sciences of the United Stales. ]
May the g nial influence ot liDerty eftablilh and ;
perpetuate their empire in this happy land.
11. The memory of those heroes who fealed 1
witn their blood the glorious cause of liberty.
12. The Freedom ol Elcftions. May every free
man hav? difceriimen"; enough to judge of the me
rits of legislative candidates, and foirit enough to
resent any attempt to influence his free and unbi
ased vote.
13. The Heads of Departments. May they ap
prove themselves worthy of the confidence re
posed in them by th ir country.
14. Ourhrft and best friend and ally the French
Nation. May the fabric whicii they have raised to
Freedom, defy the malice of its enemies, and ex
tend its influence throughout the world.
15. Peace and Happiness to all the World.
* This injiitution originated with a Jew refpeftable
charaders of this village; zo/io, from frequent experi
ence, found that in jocial and virtuous mtercourje, the
vibjl laudable objefls were purjutd\ that mutual aid
contributed much to perfection in ail. a>ts and Jcicnces ; I
contemplating and anticipating their advantages, a',
committee was appointed to draw up such rule> and re- j
filiations as might be necejjary to the good order and
interejl of the injiitution, and agreed to assume the name
of the Franklin Society, in honor abl: memory, and as
a tejiimony oj the grateful rejptel t ey enter tain for the
late venerable Americap Patriot, Philofopner and Poli-
Doctor Benjamin Franklin ; and as a
jhort memento oj the primary objetl oj the injiitution,
they adopted the J allowing Motto, Dilce et Fac.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
Mr. Fenno,
IN your Gazette of last Wednesday, after ob-,
serving that the Editor of the National Ga-|
zette receives a salary from government, I en- j
quired 44 whether this salary is paid him for
tranjlations; or for the deiign of which j
is to vilify those to whom the voice of the peo- j
pie has committed the administration of our
public affairs." In his paper of this day, he in
timates that he u receives a lmall Itipend for
services rendered as French Tranfiator to the
Department of State, and, as Editor oj a free newj
piper." T lis excites my curiosity itili farther,
and I shall hold mylelf obliged to any of your
correspondents, or to the Editor of this really
National Gazette (as it now appears to be) if ei
ther of them will inform me what inducement i
our rulers can have to hire a man to abuse
them, and whether they do not hereby unnecef-j
farily squander the public money. I have often'
heard that authors in England, or their book
sellers for them, when they find tneir books do
net fell according to their wilhes, hire some
garrettecr to write against them —t-ien publilh
a reply to his own lucubrations—-and so go on,
objecting and replying, until the attention of
the public is drawn towards the book, and thus
it is brought into demand. If there were as
many pieces in the National Gazette in faror of
government and public characters, as tnere are !
against the n, I ihould be apt to conclude ttiat;
Congress and their oiiicers were playing us the
fame trick, in hopes of keeping their ieats and
places for life ; but when all the publications
are against them, and none in their favor—hen
this u free newspaper" is always
Free to defame, but never free to praise,
it Joes not appear eafv to accountfor tnisbranch
of national expence. If none of your readers
can do it, we must wait with patience 'till the
treasury accounts are publiilied, as ike Confuta
tion of the United States requires, and then,
perhaps, the mystery will be explained.
July 28,
For the GAZETTE of the UNITE!) STATES.
a Republican dijlribution cj Citizens
wit'i remarks.
THERE appeared not long fmce, in the
National Gazette, a lhort elfay, with the
above quoted title. It begins— u A perfect
theory on this fuhjedt would be ufeful"—it
would at least be an original—but taking it for
granted that such a production is poiiible, we
are favored with the happy effe'fts naturally
to be expected. 44 It would be a monition
agaii\ft empirical experiments by power"—
that is an infallible ltandard of political or
thodoxy—perfecution, for conscience fake,
is a damnable doctrine—but a perfect theory of
citizenfliip would gradually approximate the or
der of society to the true ltandard ofphilofophical
equality
" k The life of the husbandman is pre-eminent
ly iiiited to the comfort and happinefsof the in
dividual." This is not leaving that order oi
men to judge for themselves ; few will acknow
ledge the polition, and it is fandtioned by the
conduct of a less number.— u Healthy the iirft ot j
bleflings, is an appurtenance of his property and ,
his employment—Virtue, the health of the foul,
is another part of his patrimony, and no less fa
vored by his situation." Virtue has long since
been considered by some as a fccondary confide ra
tion—Labor is the patrimony of the poor, and
the parent of health—but Virtue is an adtive
principle—the fewer its objects, the less appa
rent its effe<sts; and from thefc alone can we
determine the reality of its existence, or the
degree of its power. But is it a fadt that Vir
tue is favored by the situation of the husband
man ?—let experience teltify.
Virtue was ne'er confined to dwell,
In eloifters drear or hermit's cell—
She seeks as her fuprerae delight,
The heart that wiihes to do right;
And iccfrns the vicious mind to own,
In lhady groves, or smoky town—
For grant that ignorance confines
The farmer's views in narrow lines,
Afford them power, knowledge choice,
And idleness will nurse each vice—
With all the gaudy scene of things,
Which envy round the village sings.
It is true that the more any description of ci
tizens depend on their own the less
dependent they muftbe of course on others—but
do fa&s warrant the afTertion, u that the great
er the proportion of the class of husbandmen to
the whole society, the more free, the more inde
pendent and the more happy mult be the society
itfelf?" This is certainly no farther true, than
that a savage life is capable of rendering man
kind more happy than a civilized ; not that the
life of a hulbandman is savage, but the reason
ing goes to fliew that the farther we are removed
from the variety arising from civilization, the
better—for if there is no medium in refpe<st to the
proportion between the farmer and all the other
i clalles, the sooner all others are absorbed in the
I firft, the better—this fully accounts for the idea
| which led a gentleman to suggest thefuperior po
! licy*>f transforming our fifhermen into back
\ woodsmen.
In cities pamper'd—what a puny race,
Live on their incomes—or immured in shops,
Piod on from year to year—industrious Haves,
To fortune, pie afu re, honors,-fame !
While the firm hind, who turns the teaming foil,
With nerve of brass, fnuffs the free air, and
ranges unconfin'd,
The happy landlord of his well-earn'd farm—
But fay—does freedom there exert her force,
That shock eledtric—which trills from man to
man—
And routes all his latent pow'rs to a&ior.—
In Cities she delights to dwell—her impulse
thence—
Diffus'd—foon wakes to life the hardy yeoman
band.
"In appreciating the regular tranches of ma
nufacturing and mechanical industry, fays the
etfay, their tendency mult be compared with the
principles laid down, and their merits graduated
accordingly. Whatever is least favorable to
vigor of body, to the faculties of the mind, or to
the virtnes or the utilities of life, instead of be
ing forced or foftered by public authority, ought
to be seen with regret as long as occupations
more friendly to human happiness lie vacant."
" The several profefljons of more elevated
pretentions, the merchant, the lawyer, the phy
sician, the philosopher, the divine, form a cer
tain proportion of every civilized society, and
readily adjust their numbers to its demands and
its circumstances."
So far as the above quotations appear to have
any precise meaning, it is this, that mechanics
and manufacturers, h projcjjion, a re" an useless
order of men—that they merit no kind of en
couragement from government, left an excess
in tiieir number should be the consequence, and
some individuals fliould be benefitted by their
industry. Every other order, it seems, will re
gulate itfeif—but an increale of this, will be
the inevitable consequence of encouraging their
exertions; for though the farmers can make
their own neceflary apparel, yet if you put it in
their power, they will purchase fuperfluities,
and if they have the means, they will enjvy the
[ conveniences and luxuries of life. It is how
ever pretty evident, that the speculation now
uiidor confideratio.i was intended to prejudice
the public opinion against governmental encou
ragement to manufactures. But a comparison
between projtjfion and praftiu may not be impro
per. We are warned against empiricism in po
litics and government—and yet the United
States are, it seems, to rife to eminence by
adopting a theoretic fyftfem, not warranted by
reason or experience. The pe-ople of thiscoun
71
try nuit either forego their commercial and ci
vilized chara&er, or be dependant on foreign
countries for tho e articles which a superior
state of civilization,fuch as theUnitedStatesnov.
enjoy, cannot do without. If we are not to be
univerlally tranfmographied into tillers of the
ground, and back-woodsmen, we lhall require
for our comfortable accommodation rathermore
than our families can produce of manufactured
articles- If manufactures are neceflal'y, it ine
vitably follows, that in order to their iuccei'sful
prosecution, they must receive governmental
aid—for without it, it is demonstrable we can
not £and a competition with thole countries
who give their ft veral fabrics the highest sup
port. The touchstone of the whole bull net's of
opposition to manufactures, would be a fimpie
proportion for its opponents to give an exam
ple of their attachment to retirement, by aban
doning all the luxuries of civilized society tor
the delights of a back-woodfman's.life.
T. L.
Philadelphia, Aug. 1.
On Sunday last arrived here from Charleston,
the ftiip Delaware, Capt. Art, w th the following
pafFengers :
Mr. W.Smith, and family ; Major Butler, and
family; Mr. Kdward Mitchell; Mr. Hyme ; Mr.
i Lenaw ; Capt. fijflctt; Rev. Mr. Hollinglhead,
and lady.
On Sunday 22d ult. Captain Jbnathan Lam
bert arrived at Salem, from the Cape of Good
Hope. The Britifli frigate ./Eolus, which fail
ed from Calcutta about the 20th of February
\7itll dispatches for England, touched at the
Cape about the 20th of April. The ac counts i
by this frigate were, that Lord Cornwallis's ar
my had tftken several of the out posts of Sering
apatam, Tippoo Saib's capital ; that the army
was in high spirits, and that there was not the
Icaft doubt that Seringapatam would soon fall J
but that it had not been taken when the frigate
•ailed. Tippoo, under this appreheniion, had
withdrawn himfelf, with many of his principal
people, and much treasure, from the place to
one of his hill forts.
A powder mill was blown up at Springfield,
Mallachuicts, the 17th ult. and one man killed.
Extraß of a Utter J rem Albany, dated July, 17.
" There can be no doubt, from a concur
rence of circnmftances, but that the Britilh at
the posts, as well as the Indian tribes, influenc
ed and dire fled by them, have been active in
recommending peace to those nations adjoining
the frontier of the United States more souther
ly. Nothing seems now to be wanting to make
a firm system of pacification with the savages,
but a fixed line of honest demeanor towards the
hostile Indians, treating them as we ourselves
in their circumstances and situation would wilh!
to be treated. As it is more than probable a
treaty will be formed ere long, the preservation
of it must depend upon the vigor ofgovernment
in feeing the terms carried into execution, and
the infringers thereof puuifhed."
Extra& of a Utter from the city of ,» l 'aJkington t dated
The Commissioners attended on the Prei
dent of the United States the 16th inft. Abou
26 plans for the' Capitol and President's houfi
wercprefented—viz. from Maflachufetts, New-
York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and
South-Carcdica. Several of the Artists were
present. A preference was given to a plan of
the President's house, made out by Mr. James |
Ho ben, of Charleston, South-Carolina—there
were others of considerable merit.—The house
will be about 170 by 93 or 100 feet. The out
iide walls probably of free-ftone. Mr. Hoben
brought refpe&able recommendations of his
character and experience, had a regular educa
tion in the study of architecture, and poflefles
honorable testimonials of his success in some
competitions of Ikill in that line. He is em
ployed by the commitfioners to superintend the
execution of his plan, and such other matters
as may be placed under him. The work for
the foundation of the President's house was en
tered on the next day, and the necessary mate
rials are collected and collecting at the spot.
44 No choice was made out of the plans for
the Capitol—lt is expected this will take place
in next month."
Extrad oj a Utter from New-York, dated July 27.
44 With respeCt to the late election, there is
little or nothing said about it, among the peo
ple—And as to the late failures of the great lu
minaries of speculation, they are equally silent
—Commerce flourilhes, to my view, aftonilh
ingly—the wharves are crouded with shipping
—and business is proportionally brisk—it is
lively to a high degree—lmprovements to the
city are made and making in every poflible di
rection—ln short, every thing wears lb pleating I
an afpedt, that you would not conceive thati
credit and confidence had received any recent
(hock whatever—Surely the federal interest
must forever be predominant here—for the
new state of things has given unbounded icope
to the enterprizing disposition of this busy
place."
The enemies of freedom, for only such are
the enemies of the Union of the United States,
will leave no artifice uneflayed to subvert the
peaceable principles with which the citizens are
imprelfed towards their own government—-ly
ing paragraphs of fabricated letters have been
circulated through the medium of newspapers,
inland—this may be called the coasting trade of
those who deal in falfnoods and deceit—But this
domestic commerce of lies is tooeafily detected
—and therefore the sphere of action must be en
larged—hence we fee letters from the Islands—
yea even from Europe—and when they cannot
be readily produced from so great a distance,
a man who has been there, must be employed to
write a letter here on the fpot—Certifying ljia
ny things which are much better told in the fo
reign print:—The letter from St. Lucia (fee
the Wilmington head, in this Gazette) is a curi
ofity—Au enquiry is made whether the people
CRITO,
July 22
of the United States are as free as they are im
ported to be —tl\is is a fiimzey covering for the
gross insinuations that follow—Not to wow that
the people of the United States are perfectly
free, is to know nothing—it indicates, a dark
ness of mind, and a want of intelligence that
would incapacitate a,v'human being from the
poliibility< of enjoying civil liberty in any coun
try under heaven.
" By uniting weJlnna —b) dividir.% u.c
Club-, committees and ailbciations, indepen
dent of the constitution and the general laws of
society, are excellent expedients to cieftroy u
government—but it may be jultly queried, whe-
ther they have ever formed, treated or eila
blifhed any guards for freedom, or any fyilem
of laws in lieu of thole they have destroyed, for
the security of persons or property—How is it
possible they ever fhould?—ln the commence
ir.en.t of the American Revolution, thele socie
ties answered valuable and important purpoles
—but power is intoxicating, and it was not till
alter long and repeated struggles with tiie pow
ers of those regular governments, which im
people found necellary to their own prelervati
on lhould be eftablilhed, that committees re
linquilhed powers delegated to them for objects
which no longer existed.
The clubs and societies in France brought
about the late glorious revolution there—but
the people, not the clubs, after two years ardu
ous ftruggie adopted the Conititution.
The letter of M. Andre Chcnier, publilhed in
the Gazette of this day, exhibits a dreadful por
trait of a people whole government is in the
hands of two independent bodies—one afling
under the laws, arid the other superior to law
and the constitution.
The people of the United States, happy in
their present situation, are alive to every at
tempt which would rob them of the precious
fruits of their labors; —lenlibie of the uncer
tainty of all human acquisitions-—-and realizing
that so lon» as pride, ambition and avaricelhall
influence the heart of man, their liberty, peace
and fafety will be available by those whole in
genuity and knowledge of the prejudices of the
world, always l'upply them with pretexts to
diftuib the peace of society—they pay a sacred
regard to that bond of union which the conlli
tution has formed—Safe from the incroach
ments of despotism on the one hand, and the
billows of anarchy on the other—on the high
and ficm ground ofa free government and just
laws, they lpurn with indignation the attempts
of thole who would fever the ties of mutual
confidence between them, and those they have
deputed to administer their affairs.
A chemist in an inland town of Sweden, has
discovered a composition, which being rubbed
on the materials used in building a house, will
render it fire proof; also a powder, which whtn
sprinkled on any thing burning, will immedi
ately extinguish the lire; an experiment has
been made on some houses built,on purpose, and
filled with combustibles, which proved the be
neficial eftefts of this dilcovery, to the fatis
faftion of the governor of the province, and
the principal inhabitants of the neighborhood,
who were present, and have attested to the suc
cess of the undertaking in the moll public man
ner.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Delaware, Art, Charleston
Brig Friendship, Forreft, Newry
Columbia, C.mpbell, Caruuna
Port Rofeway, Wiiharr, Barbacioes
Charleft<-n, Garraan, Charleston
Sthoon. Columbia, M'Coimick, do.
Polly, Hart field,
Weymouth, Tirrell,
Sloop Sally, Fernald,
Ranger, Coffin,
St. Joseph, Domingo,
Phiiad. Packet, Fanner,
Anna, Gardiner,
Industry, Ciaik,
Hope, Hulfey,
Merry Andrew, Ackerly, New-York
On Friday last a brigamved at New-Castle, im
eight weeks Irom Newiy, with 240 pallengci*.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, ai
3 per Cents, izj'i
Deterred, ijj
Full lhares Bank U. S. 45 per cent, prem.
j lhares, 55
Bank of theUnitedStates,
RESOLVED,
THAT an Office of Discount and Deposit, be
cltablifaed in the City of Richmond, Siate of
Virginia.
RESOLVED,
That the 2d Tutfday in September next be ap»
pointed tor the Election of Thirteen Directors and
a Caftiier, for the Office ol Discount and Deposit,
in the City of Richmond.
By Order of the President and Dire&ors,
JOHN KEAN, Calhier.
To be publifued by Subscription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old C/ontpre^i,
From September 1774, to March 1789;-—
An authentic and original collt&ioti of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c ?
written during the late war;
And extracts from the
SECRET JOURNALS.
( for particulari, Jce Propcfuls atUrg
Subfci iptiont are received by the
BookCellers, and by the Editor s ■
JOHN CAREY, Ho'. iS, Pear-Street, *■
N. Carolina
do.
Portsmouth
Capt-Francois .
Leguira
St. Croix'
Nactucket
New-York
Sherburne
July 10, 1792,New-Brunfwick Lottery
HIGHEST PRIZE, 2,000 DOLLARS.
THE Public are hereby informed, that the
drawing of the above Lottery is postponed
till the third day of September next —at which
time, the Managers are pofuively determined the
drawing (hall commence, in Mr. Norman's Long
Room, in ihe City of New-Brunfwick.
Tickets a»-eto be* had at Samuel CoofEß's
Ferry, where fortunate adventurers may receive
their prize-money ten days after drawing. A lift
of fortunate numbers will be publifhcd in the
Gazette of the United States.
Circumstances unforefeen, and unfavorable
to Lotteries, have occasioned the neceflitv of this
further postponement, The Rector and Wardens
ask the afliftance of their episcopal and other
friends, in supplying themselves with Tickets pre
vious to the above day—confident that no Lottery
more favorable to adventurers has been offered to
the public—the deduction being only 12 g per
cent, and not two blanks to a prize.
%* Letters dirc&ed to Peter Keenon,
Post-Master, New-Brunfwick (post paid) will be
immediately attended to.
New-Brnnfwick, July 217Q2,
WHITE WAX-MANUFACTORY.
Thomas tames, wax chandler,
from London, refpe&fnlly informs the public
that he has established a Manufa&ory of the above
branch, at the upper end of Mulberry-Street,New-
Yoik, where Merchants, Captains of Vcflels,
Druggilts, and Families, may be supplied with
excellent and pure White Wax Candles, White
Wax in Cakes, Tapers, Wax'd Lamp Wirks,
Flambeaux, &c. warranted equal to any made in
London, and twenty percent, chearer.
Orders in this and the adjacent States, received
by Mr. John Good eve, Bridge-Street, Mr.
William Frobisher, Fletcher-Street, and at
the Manufactory, where samples may be seen.
N B. Bees-Wax taken in payment, or bleached
on moderate terms.
New-York, July 19, 1792.
WANTED, to go to Boston,
A JOURNEYMAN COPPERSMITH, at
(Ynall woik, such as Tra-Kettlrs, Coffee-
Pots, &c.—Good wages and constant employment
■will be given to a person with good recommenda
tions—a single man would be preferred. Enquire
of the Editor.
J"'y 25
Ebenezer Hazard,
STOCK-BROKER,
HAS Removed his OFFICE to No. 128 north
Second-Street, where he continues to purchase
and fell on Commiflion, Certificates of debt of the
United, and Individual States, Bank Stock, Canal,
and Turnpike Shares, &c. &c.
Subscribers to the Universal Tontine who
have not yet received their Certificates are delireal
to ca'l for them.
July 18,
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-ilreet, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine h'imfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to offer
liis fervires to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with their business, may depend upon
having,it tranfafted with the utmost fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other
part of the United States will be ftriaiy attend
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
' (<■»•)
Mav 2
Wm. CLE LAND,
BOSTON,
T ran Tacts business in the Funds of the United
States;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &:c.
Cs* Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality.
l urte 1 • (cp 1m & \aw2m)
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
In the Commonwealth of Majfachufetts,
A SYSTEM
fir the DISCIPLINE oj the ARTILLERY in the
UNITED STATES oj AMERICA;
O R ,
THE YOUNG ARTILLERIST'S POCKET
COMPANION.
IN THREE PA RTS.
Part 1 /~1 ONTAINI\G ihc duly and praflice
of light field artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and praflice of
heavy art.llery : to which will be added, an ex
traftofa Treatise on the origin and princioleof
Courts-Martial, wrote hy an experienced Officer
in the line, and who did duty as Judge-Advocate
in America.
Laboratory duty ; containing a great va.
riety of direaionsforcompofition.and the method
of making artifi ial flre-wnrks, and the formation
of ammunition for the different kinds of ord-
nance.
By WILLIAM STEVENS, Esq.
An Officer in the American Artillery through the
whole of the late Revolution, and since in the
Militia.
CONDITIONS
This woik to be printed on good paper with a
handsome type, neatly bound and letteicd, in
three pocket volumes, containing upwards of'one
thousand pages; illuftratcd with a great variety
of explanatory plates, executed by able artists
The price to fubferibers, One Dollar each volume
—to non-fubferibers, One French Crown each vo
lume : and those who fubferibe for fix setts (hall
have a seventh gratis.
This work fhali he published as soon as five
hundred copies are subscribed for.
Suhfcripiion papers will be lodged with the
p;incipal Printers and Booksellers in the United
Sutcs of America.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookseller, at the Stone-House, in Second-Street
encyclopedia
Or a Dictionary of Arts, Sciences,
and iVlifcellaneous Literature,
On a plan entirely new : By which the different
fc ences and arts are digs Pied into the form
Of dijlintl Treatifcs or Sy (I ems.
T his sixth volume contains, ampng a variety ol
inttrefting articles,
Dioptrics,diftillation,diving bell,art of drawing,
Dublin art of Dying, theory of the earth and earth
quakes, Edinburgh, education,ihtftorv of Egypt,
System of ele&ricitv, history of England, engrav
ing, e flaying, history of Ethiopia, &c. See. &c.
IllujiraUd with twenty-two copper plates,
CONDITIONS.
f. The work :s printing on a luperfine paper, and
nc w types (cast for the purpose in Pntladelphia)
which will be occalionally renewed before they
contrast a worn appearance.
11. 1 he work may be had in volumes or half-volumes-,
it b.ing proposed to deliver the volume* in
parts, at twenty fliiilingi(Pcnnfylvania currency)
each, in boards, or tor the whole volume, five
dollars, in boards. The volumes now finifhed
areto be paid foron delivery,and theprice otone
volume is to be paid in advance, and the price
of fach succeeding volume lo be paid on de
livering the volume preceding it.
111. In the couifc of publication will be exhibit
ed above five hundred copper plates, elegantly
engraved in Philadelphia ; which by far exceed
in number those given in any other fcientific
dt&ionary. At the close of the publication will
be delivered, an elegant fronufpiece, the dedi
cation, preface, and proper title pages for the
different volumes.
THE MANAGERS.
(>DIS)
*** As the very great expence attending the
undertaking, makes pun£tualit) of payment in
dispensably ncceffary, the publilher flatters him
felf that the fubferibers will be perfeftiy fatislied
with his adhering (liiflly to his original plan of
delivering the books only on receiving payment,
.agreeable to the conditions of publication.
Subscriptions for the Encyclopedia,
Will continue to be received on the fame terms as
usual, till the fiift of September, 1792, when the
price will be encreafed. Ten Dollars to be
paid nn fubfeription, by those who have not fub
icribed before that time.
I>P7«]
[cp.3 w
Those who have fubferibed, but not taken their
books before that time, will be conlidered as not
having fubfenbed.
As 'he fuhfeription will probably be closed by
Christmas, such as chufe to be polTeffors of this
very valuable and important woik, will do well
to come forward in time, that they may not be
di sappointed. July 91 . e p t f
JUNE 28, 1792.
PL RSUANT to the last Will and Testament of
the late Rev. Alexander Williamson,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurl
ilay, the inn of October next,at Georgetown,
on a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved security, to bear intered from
■be date—That valuable Seat of Land, in ' Montg
omery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation of the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatest part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
t< red. and capable of affording a very considerable
quantity ct fine meadow ; —Situated about 6 miles
from the Federal City,and the fame distance from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remai kpble healthy part of the country.
The improvements are, a very elegant two story
Brirk Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
paiTagc, or entry, on a floor) and she neceflfary out
houses. HE.VRY TOWNSEND,)
/ ™ J - STODDI 'RT, C Executors.
U'tvQl THOMAS JOHNS, *)
(ep.tf ;
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
"THIE Subscriber offers for Sale, a
A Rock Creek, deemed by those who have ex
mined it, equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter of'
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile from
(he market house in Georgetown, and one mile
Irom the . resident's fqua.e, in the city of Wafh
mgton—on tide water, navigable for vefftls of se
veral hundred bulhels burthen.—The rtream is
fumcient.the year round,to turn four pair of stones
and ihe fail may be made from 25 to 00 feet. It
is ur.neceffary to dwell on the advantages offuch
a lituanon.
1 lie purchafcr may be accommodated with a
tTu II f/f" of li,nd ad j°' n 'ng the Mill-Scat.
. that should be an objeft r
(ep 3 m 14JUI)
George-Town.
A Num |>er of LOTS every situation which
'" C,t y of Washington,
w, ) be offered for file by the Comm,(Boners, on
Monday the Bth day of October next. One Fourth
part of the money to be paid down, the rcftdue in
three equal annual payments, with yearly interefl
on the whole principal unpaid.
JOHN M'GANTT, Clerk
" -* V 1
O F
New-Hampshire,
„ . . Vol. 111.
duthons, iniprovempnt c r <■» "
c.e.y and manners t ' * ite of '°'
CIS, laws and government.
ftTTi/ J E . RIM * BEIKNAP, A.M.
his '—, and is
to call for their book;. iub,C!lbers ar « de'»ed
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VI of
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
to the Commiflioners.
feprf]
June 2, 1 792,
JUST PUKLISHhDc
AND TO BE SOLD (PRICE' 10/T)
By EBENEZER HAZARD,
128 North Second-Street,
THE
HIS TO R Y
72
IMPERI AL,H YSON & SOUCHONG,
Of the very (lift quality, and latest importation
from Canton, via New-York, by retail, at
No. 19,
THirH, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
r ~pHE Paitnerinipor HAZARD & ADDOMS,
X is dissolved ; —All persons having demands
on that FIRM, are desired to call for settlement,
upon EBENEZER HAZARD, at No. 128, North
Second-Street—and those indebted to it are re
quested to make immediate payment to him.
EBENEZER HAZARD,
JONAS ADDOMS.
Philadelphia, July 10, 1792. ftf)
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE jutt now opened their Lead-Ware
house, two doors south of Walnut-llreet
Wharf,adjoiningtheir New Factory—where they
have now made, and ready for sale, a general
alfortment of SHOT of all fizes,with SHEET and
BAR LEAD, the production of the Mines in
Virginia. As thev have employed a number of
experienced Englifti workmen, they warrant it
10 be equal in quality to any manufa&ured in
Europe, ?nd at a reduced price from the cost of
imported.
They also continue to wianufa&ure all theabove
articles at Richmond, in Virginia. All orders
addrefled to either of the above Fa&ories, will
be thankfully received,and executed on the short
est notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouung
Men, at the said Mines, where co'nftant employ,
good wages, and other encouragements will be
given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception*
For further particulars enquire of MefTrs. Moses
Austin & Co. at their Fattory in Richmond, or
as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 179*
THE UNIVERSAL HYMN BOOK.
Now in the Piefj, and will be ready for Sale in
ten days, by THOMAS DOBSON, and
other Booksellers in Philadelphia,
ASeleftion of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS ; taken from different Au
thors, for the Use of those who believe in the
Rrftorationof all Men. Published by Order of
the Convention holding said Faith, met in Phila
delphia, Miiy, 1791.
%* As this is an Universal Hymn Book, the
favor of the Printers in different parts, in infertino
the above advertisement, will be acknowledged °
f ul y "■ eptf.
general post-ofeice,
F Phi lads. lphia, Jfulv 7, 179®.
UK the information of Merchants and the Mas
ters or Commanders ofvrffels, are published
the following extrafls from the Law for efbblifh
ing 1 oil-Offices and Post-Roads within the United
States.
In feflion 10, it is enaQed that there (hall be
charged " for everv letter or packet brought into
the United States, or carried from one port there
■n to another by sea, in any private fhiporvcffel
four cents, if delivered at the place where the fame
ihall arrive ; and if directed to be delivered at any
other place, with the addition of the like poftase,
!"fby th r ;i e "a" arc made fubjea to thc pa * mcnt
11l feftion 12, " That no (hiporveffel, arriving
at any port within the United State,, where a port
office is established, (Hall be permiijed to report
make entry or break bulk, till the mailer or com
mander (hall have delivered to the poftmaOer, all
letlersdireaedtoany person or peiforts within
he United States, which, under his care or within
his power, shall be brought in such ship or vessel,
other than such as are directed to the owner or
contignce : but when a vessel (hall be bound to a
nother port, than that, at which (he mav enter.,he
letters belonging to, or to be delivered at the said
port of delivery, (hall not be delivered tn the pofl
malter at the port of entry. And it (hall be the
duty ofthe colleflor or other officer of the port
empowered to receive entries of (hi ps or vessels
fn/hT' re from " cr V "r commander of
luch (hip or vessel, anoath or affi-mation, purport
a^ h " de " Tered f -^cUe, s ;e P xce P ptas
r,JL n / e f'° n 13 ' '! That,he to whom
such letteis may be delivered, (hill pay to the
matter, commander, or other person delivering
the fame, except the commanders of loreign pack!
fha'n oh c - ms f ev u ery such le,tcr or P ackft ; and
shall obtain from the person delivering the fame
L C c C k" ' Ca ' Pe , C,f l' ng t! ' e " Umb "' of lexers and'
P«kets, with the name of the (hip or vessel
certified T Wh T CC (Ke !a " fai!cd ; which
fha he WUh 3 for the »™-v,
the Pft n' S uartcrl y accounts, tranfm.tted
to the Poftmalfer-General, who (hall credit the
.mount the.eof to , he the
B. STODDERT.
lifW " 4 ™J° rn >'>>>on, the 14th frcficn is pub
-7 ' u d u bc 11 furtll,:r en^ri > That if am
perfon, other than the Poamafter-General, „ r h ;',
dcput.es, or pcrfons by them employed, Ib,II take
«P, receive, order, d.fpatch, convey ca'rry or de
f! •">' <"»" or letters, packet or packets, other
hannewfpa pers, for h.re or reward, or L?l£
™ "\ simn g "P any foo: or hotfe poll
waggon or other carriage, by or in which any let!
bIXrPT !>" bf Ca ' ricd f ° r hirc ' on
or boa, P or a "'° ° r a ' ,y PaCk< " t ' ° r °' her veird
or boat, or any conveyance whoever, whereby the
revenue of the general poft-oIW mav be in'mred
every per, °„, To offend,„ g , torf(ili
ch offence, the sum of two huudred dollars
""" may bc lawful for cve "
fengcr. P a^ct s by special mef-
A TARTF c BY THE EDIT °*.
Athe r ? C T n * antl GoM
Vahle ° Un "«l States, (hewin-the
Value of Gold ,n Dollarjand Cents, from One!*
Thonfand Pmny weights-according to the Ast
of GoUi'' a he Standaid and Va?u"
SFxA°r UJ ?' V L 1L "■ "" THtRT) SESSION
iftsr&izr""""* •**
NEW TEAS.
SECURITIES
CERTIFICATES,granted by the p ub li e ln<l
the old and late paper monies, '
NOTES of hand,tills, bond», and mart.,.
mh or without depofiti, S'B"
SOUGHT, fold, or negotiated, „No .
Fourth-ftrcet bflow Maikeuftreet, by '
FRANCIS WHITE
Who tranfaSs bufincfs in the public offices
country people and others,by viriueofa po\
of attorney, or bv personal application.
PHILADELPHIA.
books,
PR IN' TED AND SOLD BY
MAT HEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Strut, Philadelphia.
l. A M ERIC A NMUSEUM.fiomitscommence.
■LX. ment to Ja*uary 1787, to December 1791
in ten vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered'
sixteen dollars. '
This work, which is now conduced oo an im
provtd plan, containing the bed pieces published
lor and againil ihe proceedings of government
will be Sound to contain at lead as'great a variety
of political, agricultural,and miscellaneous tffayj
as any ever publilhed in America. Perhaps in no'
one work are so many valuable documents refprft.
ing llie hiflory of this country, collefied together.
His Excellency the President of the United States'
has declared of it, that " a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving ,of public encouragement."
The fubferi'ption is two dollars and a halfppri r
ann. Gentlemen in the country, who with bo
be supplied with this work, are requested to give
commiflion to friends in the city to iubferibefor
and receive ir Any of the back numbers
may he had in or'ier to complete sets.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mis«
More's Essays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning,
ton's Advice,|Marchionels of Lambert's Advice
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mis. Cna
pone on command ot Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
3. Smith's History of New-York, fromits firft
fenleinent to the year 1732. To which is annex
eel, a description of the country, with a Ihort
account of the inhabitants, their religious and
political slate, and the coriftitution of the courts
of justice. Pi ice a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat,
tie, 1.1.d. profeffor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : " We
have ft en nothing on these fubjefts more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."
V. B. It is introduced into the University in Phi.
ladelphia.
•5 Beauties of Poetry, British and American,
containing fele6i productions of the moil eminent
Britilhand American poets—Price four-filths of
a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons,containing the whole of the
three volumes of the Britffh edition, in two-
Price two dollars.
7. Necker's Treatise on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifthsof a dollar.
8. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bihiofa dollar.
9. Ihe Conllitutions of the several United States,
with the Federal Constitution, See. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in
2mo.—Pricelthree-eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jest Book, in two parts, with
two very neat engravings——Price bound, three
fifths of a dollar.
12, Garden of the Soul, by Bishop Chalenor---
Price,. hound in calf and lettered, three quarters
of a dollar—plain, half a dollar.
13. The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—Price, elegantly bound and letter
ed, 50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecuni—Price a
quarter dollar.
15. Think well on't, or reflexions for every
day of the month.—Pi ice a quarter dollar.
16. Chriflian Economy, translated from a
Greek manuscript, found in the island of Patmoa
where Sr. John wrote the Apocalypse— Prices,
fifth of a dollar.
17. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
>f a dollar.
19. Sele& Poems, chiefly American—Price a
fixrh of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large aflortment of-
Book#, European as we))!• as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the mod reafonabie
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied in
she moll fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries,
or to fell again.
RUN AWAY from the fubferiber, Jiving i»
Kent County, and State of Maryland, on
Sunday the 2-Jth May last, a NEGRO MAN,
named Hark; about 40 years of age, about five
feet nine inchcs high, has a fear over one of his
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs his head on
one fide, and looks up—had on and took with
him the following cloaths, viz. a fearnought coat,
a black and white kersey coat, cut royjidj * whiic
I kersey jacket and brceches, two pair of yarn (lock
ings, the one pair lately footed, and the other not,
[two oznaburgh shirts, each pieced on one fide,
two pair of to w-lincn trowfers, one pair patched
with new tow-linen down the fore parts, and an
[old felt hat.
Whoever takes up said Negro, if out of this
St ate, and secures him in gaol, (hall receive FOl R
TEENT DOLLARS reward—and if taken within
this State, and secured as aforefaid, fnall receive
EIGHT DOLLARS reward; and if brought
|home, reasonable expences will be paid by
PEREGRINE LETHRBURY.
Ckf/lcr-TQuin, June 4, 1791. ( C P &
IVANT ED-TO RENT,
r A converter: House, in or near the centre/
\c City.—Enquire oj the Editor.
(IB\V .