A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY fOHN FEN NO. No. 34, MOUTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 6cj of Vol. IV.]
< Jt- ' J """
continuation of
An ACT concerning ihe registering
and recording of Ships or Vefl'els.
Sec. 8. A ND be it further enacted, That in
Xl order to the registry of any iliip or
veflel, which, after the laftday of March next,
lhall be built within the United States, it (hall
be necelfary to produce a certificate, under
the hand of the principal or master carpenter,
fcv whom, or under whose direction, the said
Blip or velfel (hail have been built, reflifi ing,
that ihe was built bv him, or under his direc
tion, and Specifying the place where, the time
When, and the person or persons for whom,
.and describing her built, number of decks and
masts, length, breadth, depth, tonnage, and
such other circumitanrts, as are u'nally de
fcriprive of the identity of a ship or vefiel,
which certificate (hall be fufflcient to author
ize the removal of a new vefTel, fVom the dif
trift wbere (he may be built, to another dif
trift in the fame, or an adjoining state, where
the owner, or owners actually reside, provided
it be with ballad only.
Sec- 9- And be it further ena<sted, That the
several matters herein before required, hav
ing been complied with, in order to the regis
tering of any Ihip or veflel, the collector of
the diftritt comprehending the port to which
lhe shall belong, fliall make, and keep, in some
proper book, a record or regiflry thereof, and
ihallgrartan abflraft or certificate of such
record or regiltry, as nearly as may be, in the
form following :
" In piirfuance of an ast of the Congress of
the United States of America, intituled, "All
ast concerning the registering and recording
of Jhips or vessels," [inserting here the name,
occupation, and place of abode, of the person
by whom the oath or affirmation aforefaid,
Jhall have been made] having taken or iiib-
Jcribed the oath (or affirmation) required by
the said ast, and having I'woru {or affirmed)
that he (or ihe, and if more than one owner,
adding the words, " together with," and the
name or names, occupation or occupations,
place or places of abode, of the other owner
or owners) is (or are) the only owner (ar ow
ners) of the Clip or vefTei, called the [inserting
here her nan«.TefTiiifertirg bare the port to
Nvhich she may Ixloiig] wliercoffinfei'tinghsre
the name of the mafterj is at preffent mailer,
and is a citizen of the United States, and that
the said (hip or veGcl was [ioferting here,
■\vfcen and where built] and [inserting here
the name and o£sce, if any, of the perlcn by
"whom fiie ihal] have been lurveyedor admea
fu ed] having certified that the fa'd fliip. or
VefTei has pn.eiting he re,the number of decks]
and [irilerting here, the number of mails]
and that her length is [Inserting here the
number of feet], her depth [inserting here,
The number of feet] and that ffie measures
[inserting here, her number of tons] that flic
is [describing here, tlie particular kind of vef
fe', whether Ihip, brigantine, friow, schooner,
sloop, or whatever e!le, together with her
buiit, and fpecifvirg Whether she has any, or
no gallery or head,] and the laid [naming the
owner, or the malter, or othef person, acting
in behalf of the owner or owners, by whom
the certificate of admeafurernent (hall have
been counterfigncd, as aforesaid] having a
l*'eed to die description ai d admeal'urement,
above fpeeified, and fufficieut leeurity having
been given, according to the.fiid afij the said
fliip or velfel hashed! duly regiltered at the
port of [naming the port where tegiftered.l
Given under my hand and feat, at [naming the
said port] this [inserting the particular day J
day offnaming the month] in the year "[Tpe
c,lying the number of the year, in words at
length:'*] Provided, That if the master, or
per ton having the charge or command rf such
ihip or veflel. fhallj himjclf, hnve made oath
or affirmation touching his being a citizen,
tlie wording of the said certificate Ihsll be va
ried Jo as to be conformab'e to the truth of
tlie cale : And Provided, That where a new
certificate of regiftrv is granted, in cor.fe
quence ofany transfer of a Ihip or veflVl, the
words shall be lit varied, as to refer to the
Ijwmer certificate of regiitrv, for her admea
iV'eniont.
Sec. io> Ami be it further enacted; That
it fliail be the *luty of the Secretary of the
Treasury, to cause to be prepared, atid trar.f
i.lifted, flom time to time, to the coifcriftors
ct the ievcrsi difcrie'ts, a fuffictertt nnmber cf
f irtns of theiaid certificates of reg-iftrv, as
Ufted under the seal of the Treasury, and
tiie hand o» tl:e Regifler tbereet, With proper
blanks, to be iiiltd by the said collector*, le
ipedivcly, by whom alio, the said certificates
full be figneo and Teuled, before they (ball be
i:llied and where ti ere is a liaral officer at
any port they fliall be by him ;
•mi witere there is a fnrvevor, but r.o naval
cheer, they fhail be coun'terfigred by him ;
and a copy cf etch, (hail be transmitted to the
iaid Re;;ifter, who foal) caue a rccoid to be
■kept of the Itnie.
Sec. 11. And be it further enaflcd, Thct
wliere any citi»--n or citizens of the United
States, ihall purchale, or becdne owner or
owners of any ihip or vcficl, entitled to be
JejiitL-red, by virlti* oi atst, fucb fiiip or
vefTel, being within any diftii«sV, other than
the one, in which he or they uftially reside,
such ship or vefiel lhall be entitk-d to be re
giftercd by the collector of th? diftiicV, where
fucbfnip or vefiel may be, at the time of bis
or their becoming owner or owners thereof,
upon bis or their complying with provi
sions herein before prescri bed, in order to the
registry of fbips or vcliels ; And the oftth or
affirmation which is required lo be taken,
may, at the option of iiich owner or owner®,
be taken, either befoie the collector of the
comprehendirg the port to which luch
(hip or vefiel may belong, or before the col
lector of the diftrifty within which, such ship
or vefiel may be,,either of whom, is hereby
empowered the fame : Provi
ded nevertheless, That wherever such fliip
or vefiel lhail arrive within the diftrift, com
prehending the port to which such ship or vei
lel shall belong, the certificate fit' registry,
which fhaJ! !>ave been obtained, as aforefaid*
(hall be delivered up to the collector of such
diftrift, who, upon the requisites of this ast,
in order to the registry of ships or. vellcls, be
ing complied with, shall grant a new one, in
lieu of the firit j and the certificate, so deli r
vered up, shall forthwith be letumed by the
collector who shall receive the fame, to the
collector who ilia 11 have "ranted it : and if
the said firft mentioned certificate of registry,
fh.ill not be delivered up, as above difefted,
the owner or owners, and the master of such
ship or vat the time of her laid arrival
v/ithin comprehending the port to
which such ship or yeffel may belong, shall,
severally forfeit'the sum of onehundied dol
lars, to be recovered, with costs of suit; and
the faip certificate or registry shall be thence
forth vofd. And 1 m cafe any of the matters
of fact, in the id or affirmation alledg
ed, which fliall be within the knowledge of
the partvi so swearing or affirming, shall not
be true, there shall be a forfeiture of the ship
or velfe), together with her tackle, furniture
and apparel, in refpeft to which, the fame
fljaH have been made, or of the value thereof,
to be recovfeied, with costs of suit J of the per
fon 1 by whom such oath or affirmation fliall
have been made : Provided always, That if
tlie master, or person having the charge or
Command of such ship or vefiel, shall be,with
in the diftrift aforefaid, when application
shall be made for registering the lame, he
shall, himfelf, make oath or affirmation, in
stead of the laid owner, torching his being a
citizen, and the means whereby, or manner
in which, he is so a citizen ; in which cafe, if
what the said master, or person having the
said charge or command*, fliall fofwear or af
firm, shall not be true, the forfeiture afore
faid fliall not be incurred, but he shall, himfelf,
forfeit and pay, by reason thereof, the sum cf
one thousand dollars.
Sec. 12 And be it further enacted, That
when any ship or vefiel, entitled to be regis
tered pursuant to this ast, fliall be purchased
by an agent or attorney for, or on account of
a citizen or citizens of the United States,
such ship or vefiel, being in a diftrift of the
United States, more than fifty miles distant,
taking the nearest usual route by land, from
4 the one comprehending the port to which,, by
virtue of such purchase, and by force of this
ast, such ship or vefTel ought to be deemed to
belong, it fliall be lawful for the collector of
the diftrift, where such ship or vefTel may be,
and he is hereby required, upon the applica
tion of such agent or attorney to proceed to
the registering of the said ship or vefTel, the
said agent or attorney, firft complying, on be
half, and in the flead of, the owner or own
ers thereof, with the requisites prescribed by
this ast, in order to the registry of ships or
vefieh, except, that in the oat'i or affirmation,
which fliall be taken by the said agent or at
torney, instead of swearing or affirming that
he is owner, or an owner of such ship or vefiel,
he shall swear or affirm, that he is agent 01 at
torney for the owner or owners thereof, and
that he hath bona fide purchased the said ship
or vefTel, for the person or persons, whom he
shall name and describe as the owner or own
ers thereof • Provided nevertheless, That
whenever such ship or vefTel fliall arrive with
in the diftrift comprehending the port to
which such ship or vefTel shall belong, the cer
tificate of registry which shall have been ob
tained, as aforefaid, shall be delivered up to
the collector of such diftrift, who, upon the
requilitqs of this ast, in order to the registry
of snips or vefTels, being complied with, shall
grant a new one, in lien of the firft ; and the
certificate, so delivered np, fnall forthwith be
returned by the collector, who fliall trar.fmit
the fame to the collector who ftiall have
granted it. And if the said firft mentioned
certificate of shall not be delivered
up, as above directed, the owner or owners,
and the master cf such ship or vefTel, at the
time of her said arrival within the diftrift
comprehending the port to which she may be-
shall, severally, forfeit the sum of one
hundred dollars, to be recovered, with costs
ot suit, and the said certificate of registry,
fhail be thenceforth void. And in cafe, any
of the matters of fact, in tb? said oath or af
firmation aHedged, which fha.'l be in the
Saturday, January 26, £795.
273
knowledge of the parVy, so fwearirg or affirm
ing, shall not be true, there fha.ll be a for
feiture of the (hip or vessel, together with
her tackle, furniture and apparel, in refpe<Tt
to which, the fame shall have been made, or .
of the valuo thereof, to be recovered, with
costs of fiiit, of the per Jon by whom such oath
or affirmation shall have been made : Provi
ded always,|That if the master or person hav
ing the charge or command of such Ship or
velTel, shall be within the dill rift aforefaid,
when application shall be made for
the fame, he fhafl, himfelf, make oath or nf
firmation, instead of the fa id agent or attor
ney, touching his being a citizen, and the
means whereby, or manner in which,he is foa
citizen ; in which cafe, if what the said mas
ter. or person having the said charge or com
mand, shall so swear or affirm, fliall not be
true, the forfeiture aforelaid shall not be in
curred, but lie fliall, himfelf, forfeit and pay,
by reason thereof, the furn of one thousand
dollars.
[To be continued.]
From the AMERICAN MERLVRV.
CERTA JNJiighly diftinguilhed oppofers of
the corrupt administration of oui national
governmtnc, hold preachers and preaching in
utier contempt; they arc too much of philoso
phers to be chriflians—Sedfasejl et ab hojle doccri
-—that is to fay, they fee the great efficacy of
preaching to propagate and to preserve religious
opinions. Why then should they not turn the
guns of the enemy upon him ?—Preaching anti
fed era I ism may prove equally cogent for doc
trine, for reproof, for discipline, for ftirrincr U p
weak minds against Congress. and for confirm
ing the faith of those whom the prosperous ad
m niftration of the constitution has half per
suaded to be federal. Therefore, on matiire de
liberation, the Jacobins of this country, have re
solved in their Council, that it will be pioper to
deJiver a course of antifederal Lcthtres.
For this purpose, iiinerant preacht is will be
lent into all pans of the country. Persons will
be appointed to hold forth in bar-?ooim, at re
viewing of the militia, and in all places of pub
lic resort. Some shall be sent to Rh de-Island,
?rid oihers to Vermont. The Apostles who are
obliged to flay at home, may be ufeful bv wiit
ing Letters. By that means, and by the meet
ing of the agents of different difti i£ls of country
at New-York, the attack on th** Vice-President
was carried on with peculiar skill and force
but it remains to impress the people with pioper
feniiments. If that could be fuccefsfullv done,
we might have the comfortable hope of feeing a
revolution in government once or twice a year.
We might talk as the Fiench do about the anlient
Constitution, (meaning 1 hat made last vear.) —
Like the Tartars we might keep-on the move
from one plea fa nt station in politics to another;
we should not get bigoted to old systems again,
as we are at prcfent ; ana to such a degree that
any scheme of amendment and improvement is
flifled at the birth. The are afraid of
flaying long in a place, for feai of getting wed
ded to it, and consequently losing their indepen
dency. Every re volution would open fre Hi paf
turc for the Cattle, and the National Gazette
fair iy tells us, it high time to set about it.
in order to aflift our Leftuiers, and to pre
pare the public for their leccption, we give a
Syllabus of the Le£t«rts.
Leelure iji. The amendments to the Constitu
tion were mere milk and water, not having al
tered its pcinciplesj nor afforded the flighted fc
curitv against their dangerous and despotic ten
dency.
2d. That the amendments have done away
the objedions of the Anrifedcralifts, so thai Gov.
Clinton is now a better Fcderalift than Mr. John
Adams. Meke the former Vice-President, and
he will become better than a good Fcderalift,
and will put the monarchy-men, and the sup
porters of ihc monied systems, 10 a total rout.
3d. Shews how the Constitution may be prov
ed co forbid any meafuie, good or bad—this se
cret is to be learned by examples. The Bank
Law was oroved to be point blank against ihe
Constitution—Tread one loot off the letter of
that writing, and you get in o the mire. Pass a
law to carry any of the powers expressly given
to Congress into execution—if the law require
you.to provide the ntceffary means for giving it
effc$ R prove that you cannot constitutionally
adopt the means II you could, would
be as despotic as TippooSaib. Provided al
ways, that if the Bank Charter were limited to
ten years t or eftabiiftied on the Poiowmac, it
would be as ccrtllituiion.-tlas the rcfidcnce a£t.
4th. The best method of recovering popula
rity, vote against all grants of nroney—vote a
ramU every rne;jfure. If ii should pass and be
approved in the operation, nobody will ask
what part you took. If it should raise a cla
mour, you may fay I told yr«u so.
sth. A question of casuistry—Whether a Con
crete man may lie tor hi* party ? In doubtful
calcs, the opinion and practice of the fathers are
tailed; the affirmative of this question is (dp
ported by precedent, arid good confidence dic
tates that a man (hould do all the good he can.
Jn this Ltfture the point is difcuffrd, whether if
£ man lie, and the thing pinches, he is bound to
swear to.it. It is ftiewn that it a clcver fellow
is hired for it, lie is bound 10 earn his wage*.
6th. On ihe proper discipline of a party —Iww
to make tfcr men follow their file leader.
[Whole No. 591.]
7'h. On the phrTntophy of prejudice, or Vhe
art of addreffinfc the pa(W,s of the ,u,.plc—
where tfiey exist, a pariy itun muR fni<J ii, rm
our, and where thev .ire not be inuß m.,ke them
—in'his way fie will r-V e r rail—by
Iwo ftiek«, y «o nwy. »l«»v< g-f a fire. R.ih ~,j
and do no: be difcouragcd ; cry forever. Muff
go wrong, and- ytru wil/ fomrlime or other tc
right, or fenrr (0 be,, Always run wnh the pen.
pie, and by running fjfler, y'o,, w jH |< f( ,p (k ,} oie
them and lead them. Popularity is a frirmv,
and may be taught even to boys, as wcil as
Arithmetic.
Foreign Affairs.
PARIS. Otfnher2o.
ON Thursday the l9th ini%. 1000 Mai;(ei:l
lois arrived in Paris. They were divid
ed into four columns and cantoneii. Not
withstanding the clamors cfrhe PrieftChabot,
and others, they received a moll hearty wel
come from the citizens of Paris*
S-rue the Convention began to ag : tate the
qtteftton of the King.*! trial, it is said, he 'ha*
fa I!" n into a profound melancholy.
OFT. 9,5. The return of the votes for the e
leclion of a Mayor of is, was hist nig'tt ex.
amined, when it appeared, that of 14,317
votes, 13,746 were in favor of Petion. The
1 eft of the votes were between Mes
sieurs Antonele, Lulierp, Manuel, S.c. Phi
lip Egalite, (late Duke of Orleans), obtained
onevotty and, as there .ire always some per
sons who delight in jests, it was found, rhaf
Mnnfieur (the King's brother) and the King
of Prufiia, had each of them—ane vote.
Address ofPetion to the Conuniflaries,aflem
bled to examine the ballots of the 48 Sefti"
ons.
Citizens,
I, .
I HAVE had the Ixinour, some time ago,
to inform you that, being called to a feat in
the National Convention, 1 had accepted of
that important million ; that I could, nor
ought not to hold two different offices; and
at the lame time I had rcqr.efted you to pro
ceed to tlie nomination of a new Mayor. Yovi
have a second time honored me with your (Vf
frages,—there is nothing more glorious for
me, and I want words to express to y6u my
gratitude. I can but view that choice as a
mark of friendfhip, and of the recollection of
the services which I may have rendered to
this,city. I confefs it is very painful to me
not to be able to correspond to that confi.
dence, which X value lo much. When I ei
ter the House of AfTentbly as a Representa
tive of the Republic, I only ebey the patriotic
principles of serving well my country. Ac
cept my fincerefV regrets, and tie affurauce
of my entire devotion to your welfare.
Your Fellow-Citizen,
PETION.
O&ober 26, 179 a.
It is afiured that the fe&ion of Marseille
have come to a resolution, to invite the 83
departments to join them in their
fa rift ion to a decree of the wiiich
di reels the afiemblage of an armed forcc in
the capita!.
Army of the North.
To the showers of fire which have, daring
ten days, deluged us with ruins, succeeds the
roaring noise of a formidable army, which ij
encamped in the plain where Luckner was
posted at the time of his expedition into Weft
• Flanders ; and to that infernal storm succeeds
at last, that peace of mind which the glory of
having deserved the approbation of one's
country, can alone inspire. The Auftmn
satellites and plunderers, who had evacuated
Iloubaix, have returned, there to exercise
anew their pillaging. They plundered yes
terday two waggons loaded with the fluffs
which are fabricated in that borough. We
have fkirniifhes everyday at Pont-rouge, in
which we have always the advantage.
November. 8.
They seem to reproach Gen. Dumourier,
and the other Generals, with not having done
the Pruflians, in their precipitate retreat, all
the harm and mifchief they could. It is an
easy matter to ast the part of a critic in the
closet, especially when we are neither ac
quainted with the places, the things nor the
motives which determined our Generals to
ast this or that part. To have reduced and
compelled, by ikilful manoeuvres, an enemy
fully able, to fall back, to have liar raffed thejn
continually, to have intercepted their provi
sions, and their convoys, to have every day
taken prisoners from them—is a result for
tunate enough to disarm envy, and filenci
those ariftocratical detrafters. We have ob
served it at the beginning of the war, that'
the best combined fvftem of defence, was not
to hazard bloody battles, but precifelv to do
what was done. Success has fully juftified
our expectation, and we are far from pre
tending to the presumptuous felflove of beirg
thought a warlike people.
After tl*e fur render of Nice, the Bishop of
that city dared to congratu'ate the French
General, who with firninefs answered fcim,
that he could 1105 believe his bypou itital ]an
■ ir: ?ojf
■:'>. Vguagc ; and be advised htir. t for his own fcfc •
ty, to leave the town as scon as lie could,
which advice th? Bifbop very wifely followed.
Citizen Anfchne (Mils Anfehne) fitter of
•the brave General ot' the lame name, who al
ready ha«, in feverai rencounters with the
enemy, diftinguifted herielf, not only by
her valour, but alio by her virtues, talents
and love tor the ha* difSlaved in the
army en the Var, tne genius of the famous
Montfoit. She commands an army of J $oo
men, and in the several engagements flat has
bad witu the enemy, flie was always seen
foremoft with her glittering sabre in ker
hand, to encourage her men : and indeed this
amiable and valiant aniazon, who poifclfes
great talents and a tried courage, will ba the
Clorinda of her age. Sue has well dclerved
to iharc her brother's glory.
Domestic Articles.
XORFORK, January 9.
qti Sunday lail arrived here the brig Willi
am Pennock, Capt. Williams, who failed from
Point Petre, Guadalonpe, 011 the 15th Decem
ber. Four day* before Capt. Williams left
the iilanci, the frigate La Felicite arrived at
Dominica, in 35 days from France, and bro't
news of the defeat of the Combined Force ;,
which jet the whole inland tit a fermentation ;
the inhabitants were all quitting the iiland,
in expectation of a fleet coming from France.
Capt. Williams took in 2 3 paflengers for St.
£u(latia, where he arrived on the 18th, and
fouud five more American vefleis from dif
ferent parts of the iiland, full of Fren; h pas
senger ;, and a 'mjuiber more momently ex
pected. St. Euftatia was full of French peo
ple, and fcarcc ahoufe to be got 011 any terms.
At Sr. Martin's on the 2 3th nit. Hkewifp found
several more veflcls frojn Guadeloupe, with
40, 53, and 63 pafTengers on board ; ajfo a
vetfe! from Martiuico, with paiTeotiers, who
info mcd him that that island was in the fame
situation as Guadeloupe, which was conti
nually under arms. A gentleman on boaid
t'ie veTel froni'Marlinicd fa V, 17cq of the in
habitants quitted the lfland, and all kinds of
business was at ast and ; nothing doingexcept
fortifying the iiland, repairing t'he farts, and
getting iii order "to atn\ the negroes againit
the fleet arrived from France wl.ich they ex
pected. In Guadaloupe they purchased 80,300
stand of arms from the other iilands ; and 011
the firft appearance of the fleet, the Planters
were determined to arm their negroes to pro
tect the White Flag. The frigate La Felicite
got information of a French frigate who wore
the White flag, manned with mulattoes,which
the La Felicite gave chace to—<he run into
Back-Staff, Guadeloupe, under cover of the
guhs. The Captain of the La Felicite wrote
toe Governor of Guadalonpe, if he caught any
Aristocratic Flags in the Welt-Indies, he was
determined to fink them—He bent his course
to Dominica, as he could not obtain any fnp
plies in the FreccM Hands.
NORWICH, January !4.
EttraQ oj -i. letter from a gentleman in Charlcßon
fS. i.) to a friend m this tou n, dated Dcum
ber 24, 1.79:'.
" A few days iince departed this life, Hen
K.Y Laurens, Esq. about 70 years of* age, and
his co 1 p!e ire burnt tile third day after His
decease. This was done by his Son, by re
queftof the Father, who made this reserve in
h\s will, that unless his son complied with this
request, lie fliould be cut (hart of any of his
estate, whiph was worth about ster
ling. The allies remaining from the body
wcie taken up and put into a lilver urn pro
vided for that purpose. The reason that Lui
rens gave for this lingular desire, was, that
his body was too good to be eaten by worms.
BAL'fIMORE, January 21
from a correspondent.
Answer to an Evgljjh Paragraph exhibiting tie
aifterevct between the French and American Re
volution., lately puHiJked in fame of the Nev Pa
pers in the United States. Je
FHERP., is that difference between the
French and American Revolutions, that the
latter was not opposed by cunning priests, nor
cruel aristocrats determined to overthrow
every principle of honelty and humanity, for
a emmefa hilled by common sense—A royal
puppet, on this spot, did not dance on the wire
of a band of courtiers, the most despicable and
abandoned wretches that ever difgraccd man
kind—The focus of both despotism and no!«i.
lity was far from this land of liberty, and its
glorious adherents.could not be infected with
the pernicious breath of mad royalty and im
pudent aristocracy. The popular cause was
opposed openlv, sword in hand, and viftori
oufly fought by tile friends to the rights of
men; had the French republicans met with
such opponents, they had not done those ex
ceiles the Kin<r, the Nobles and Clergy have
roused them to by the most perfidiouVtontrl
vances—A King did no t foi swear hinifclf in
America, nor hacl the American people more
t.iai> one Arnold; their tempers were soured
neither by misery nor by a complicated fvftcm
of treachery, framed coolly, and purfuedwith
t.ie gieateft obstinacy—The American people
were not loaded with enormous taxes, that
had reduced millions of their fellow citizens
to the utmost misery, to maintain haughty
pmnderers in sloth and profligacv All this
odds 111 u(I be reckoned by impartial men, to
explain the difference infidionfly delineated
between the two Revolutions, bv f.ime des
perate royalist, or a narrow-minded man.
PHILADELPHIA.
PRICE OF STOCKS,
6 per ttr.n, 20/ i
3 per Cents, i,/, 0
Deferred, 12 ,
Full foores Bank U. S. 34 pcr c \, lUi mem
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, January 14.
The memorial 'f officers of fevfrttl lines of
the late army of the United Stales, being un
der corfJeralicn, in committee of the <wha:e,
a motion was made to rijefl the prayer
oj the meinurials.
Mr. SEDGWICK observed that he did not
rife to express an opinion as to any vote which
he might ultimately give on the subjeCt now be
fore the committee. It was undoubtedly an im
portant subjeCt—important, as it respects t£e
character of the applicants, and a* it involved a
consideration of the services which had been
rendered by them. No man had a more re
fpeCtful opinion than he entertained of the hon
orable patriotism of those brave and meritori
ous citizen#, who had ventured their lives in de
fence of their country, No man would more
regret than himfelf, that those Cervices should
remain unremunerated. Thus feeling, he should
be sorry if the motion of the gentleman frotfi
New-Jersey should preclude a difcufiion of the
various questions which might otherwise arise
in the contemplation of this fubjeCt.
He laid he knew several gentlemen who be
lieved that it was impracticable to grant the
prayer of the memorials, without producing e
vils, so many and so great, as infinitely more
than to counterbalance the benefits ntended.
That it would be a criminating reflection on
gentlemen who, with so much warmth of de
clamation, had espoused the taufe of the appli
cants, to suppose that they forefaw those evils and
were not prepared to guard against them, ft
would be indirectly charging upon them as the
motive of their conduit, to give an approving
countenance to an impracticable objeCt, an in
tention ofacquiring popularity at the expence of
the reputation of the government. This was a
charge he had no disposition to make; he would
therefore suppose the gentlemen had digested
feme scheme, in their opinion of practicable
compensation; which, by what they have said,
they have pledged to bring forward to the con
sideration of the committee; but they would be
precluded from doing it, should the mover of
the present queflion perfilt in having the fate
of the memorials decided on his motion.
He laid that, confident in the hope that the
gentleman would gratify the wilhes of his friends,
he would take the liberty of mentioning some of
the embarrafling questions which the commit
tee must meet in the progress of this business.
The whole merit of the present application,
in his opinion, relied on the supposition tbatby
the terms of the funding law the government
had made a saving to itfelf; or, to speak with
more precision, to the debtor part of the com
munity. In other words, that by the terms of
the loan an adequate provision was not made for
the public debt. This supposition is denied by
many gentlemen, who did not hesitate expressly
to declaie, that the provision is ample and ought
to be fatisfa&ory. Others, lie faic, went further,
and even infinuatcd that there exilled a sympa
thetic feirfibility between the majority of Con
gress and the public creditors, injurious to the
great body of the people. This saving confli
cted that residuum of the original contrail*
which was the fubje<ft of the present demand.
If then there was no saving there was no residu
um—no fubjcA of diflribution. On this idea,
the application is to the generosity, not the jus
tice of Cosgrefs. On this ground the memori
als, he presumed, were not advocated by those
gentlemen. Should it, howevsr, be demonstrat
ed that the contemplated saving had been made
to the public, he aiked whether this wa« the
only description of creditors to whom injuflice
had been dbne ? and would not the fame argu
ments which should detr.onftrate their rights
prove equally the title of every otber original
holder to further provision ? Was there any dis
criminating principle by which it would appear
that these men alone were entitled to redrel's for
a violation of justice ? These queilions were
important, and being obvious, they must have
occurred to the gentlemen; who, it might rea
sonably be presumed, had come prepared, if not
with fatisfaaory, at lead with plausible answers.
He said, that among the evils which had been
. endured during our struggle for freedom and in
dependence, was a lapse of public credit, by
which there had been apportioned a severe tax
011 the citizens; and although this was not in
exa£ proportion, yet it was generally more e
qual than probably any re-apportionment would
make it. It was said, at lead by some, that by
comparing the relative circumf.ar.ces of the ar
my before and since the war, with the commu
nity at large, it might be presumed that they
had not contributed to this tax beyond their pro
portion. If on the whole, the claim of the ar
my could not be diftinguiflied from that of the
other original creditors, and if justice required
the provision contended for, then it would fol
low irrefiftably, that an account was to be open,
ed with each original creditor; that even if a dif
tindion could be discovered which would au
thorise a difference between the army and every
other description of creditors, it was, he said,
further alked, by gentlemen who believed the
projefi tobe.impraaicable.whetherit was intend
ed, by a further diftinaion, to separate the offii
cers from the soldiers, to provide for the forflier
and not for tha latter ? If one part of the di
lemma was chosen it would eperate manifell in
justice, if the other the government would open
those sources of fpcculation which seemed to
threaten to inundate the country with enormous
evils. He said, gentlemen who were disposed
to afford a favorable countenance to tbe present
applications had undoubtedly considered these
effe&s, and had alio considered the means of pre
venting those evils, and candor required that
they Ihould be indulged with an opportunity of
exhibiting their system.
H« said that it was further objeaed that the
proposed measure would materially alter the
274
funding fyftcm, a strait adherence to which
was guaranteed to the public by an almost una
nimous vote of both Houses.
He said the objc&ions he had mentioned were
among the most important of those which had
occurred on this fubjeil; that a difcuflion ot
them would open an cxtenfi/e field of argument.
He thought it would 1 e of public utility that
they {hould be difcKffed, he therefore again fo
licitcd the gentleman from Ncw-Jerfey to with
draw his motion, that an opportunity might be
afforded to gentlemen to bring forward a di
gefled fyltem.
Mr. Boudinot assured the committee, that he
had determined not to trouble them on this fub
je*fl< and he ihould have carried that determina
tion into execution, did he not find that the
question was likely to be taken in a manner not
altogether pleasing to him. He had expedted
that the claims of the officers would have been
fairly met, and if decided in tbe negative, those
gentlemen, would have gone away fully fatisfied
that their claims had received a fair and candid
difcuflion : But he feared, from the arguments
of gentlemen, that the idea that the United
States had unjustly. failed in performing the con
trail with the army, would take place, and an
ungrounded imputation ofpartaility (at least in
the minds of the petitioners) would be left on
the government, when Mr. B. thought, a fair
flatement of the matter would undoubtedly put
a very different face on the whole bufmefs. 'l he
officers ef the army had come forward as credi
tors of the United States in a decent arid becom
ing manner, and presented their claims founded
on former contracts, which they conceived had
not been fulfilled, and therefore they called on
government to do what was right and just on
the occalion. Congrels were the independent
representatives of the whole usion, to whom e
very citizen ought to have free access, and where
every citizen was to be considered as equally en
titled to an impartial hearing. If on examina
tion it (hould appear that justice required a far
ther eompenfation to the petitioners as a claf's of
public creditors, when considered on a general
scale, no man in the house would be more ready
than himfelf to give his voic« for such a measure.
But if it should ap.pear that th<J contrail on the
part of riie 1 public had been complied with, as far
as distributive justice would permit, he wished
the petitioners to be convinced of it, and that
those losses they had met with, were such as had
been equally borne by other creditors of the uni
on, and therefore a general burthen, by which
he hoped they would receive full fatisfa&ion on
this fubjedl.
Mr. Boudinot, while he acknowledged the
patriotism and virtue of the American army,
and fubferibed fully to their eminent fervice3
and patient fufferings, he could not join in de
crying the efTential services and fuiferings of the
other public creditors of the United States, who
in the day of her distress had administered their
property, to the support of that army and the
defence of the union. All public creditors who
presented themselves in the day of distress to the
relief of the Union, were equally entitled to the
attention of Congress; but as the officers in their
memorials had applied in behalf of the army
alone, he wished to consider their in the
firil instance, abftra&ly, without conne&ing it
with any other class of creditors, and then com
pare it with others of their fellow-citizens.
He undertook, therefore, in the firft place,
to state the public condudt towards the army
from the beginning to the commencement of the
preient government—He would then examine
the conduit of the preient government, and
lastly, fuppoGng their claim just, enquire into
the practicability of it.
The committee were well acquainted with the
rife and progress of the late war. At the fir 11
alarm the patriotic citizens of the colonies flaw
to their arms and formed in the field, without
terms or stipulations as to their services. In 1775
Congress turned their attention to the army as
the firfl great obje«sl, and having organized it,
fixed the pay at the rate of 50 dollars for a colo
nel, and zo dollars for a captain. In 1776, de
sirous of encouraging citizens who were so zeal
ous in their country's service, they gave a boun
ty of 20 dollars to each private, amounting in
the whole to upwards of 100,000 dollars, be
sides a promifc of 100 acres of land, and to the
officers at the rate of 500 acres to a colonel, and
the reft in proportion. In October of the fame
year, desirous of keeping up the zeal of the of
ficers, they increased the pay in proportion of
75 dollars to a colonel, and 40 dollars to a cap
tain, and gave a suit of clothes per annum to
every private, or 20 dollars in calh. In Dec.
*777> Congress shewed their desire of encourag
ing the service, by giving a month's extra pay
to the army. The officers, anxious for their fu
ture support after the war was over, exprefTed
an earnelt desire of having foine provision of this
fort anticipated, and Congress in compliance
with their delires, after a consideration of three
months or more, agreed in May 1778, to give
each officer half pay for 7 years after the end
ol the war, on condition that they did not
hold any office of profit under any individual
state, and 80 dollars to each private. In Novem
ber following they gave to each supernumerary
officer one year's pay extraordinary, and increas
ed the allowance for every retained ration to
as. 6d. in money. The army, not being fatisfi
ed with this provision, in Augufc 1779 a com
mittee appointed for the purpose reported far
ther provision of half pay for life, without any
condition in favour of those who should continue
till the end of the war, and recommended to the
Hates to provide for widows of officers and sol
diers who should be killed in the service. Con
gress likewise increased the allowance of month
ly fubiiftence for officers to 500 dollars for a
colonel, a captain 200 dollars, and a private 10
dollars, and added to all this, Congress allowed
the officers to receive from the public stores one
nat, a watch coat, body coat, four vests, four
pair breeches, four shirts, four stocks, fix pair
{lockings, four pair flioes, per annum, nearly at
former prices, and the foldler. in proportion
The half pay for life was adopted, to the great
offence of individual states, who lent fnrwa .
petitions against the measure as impolitic and
unjust. The war continuing, the distresses of
the country iiicreafed, which reduced tin
credit so low, as to produce great uneafinels a
mong all classes of public creditors, both in the
army and country.
The gentleman from P< nnfylvania (Mr. Hart
ey) in his argument represented (in Mr.B'so .i"
"ion) his own feelings 011 tin <>ccafion,r«hJ
than a comparative view with the fufferjn?s of
the citizens at large ; for it a not uncommon
when gentlemen are cunire&cd with a ji art i cil .'
Ur class of fuflerers, to view what he lees a , l( j
hears .sail exclufivc and peculiar evil, without
considering what paflen elfewhcre. Thus tie
loluicr confidcrs the facrifice of the army a, t|-~ c
only intolerable burthen, while the merc^an
knowing his own losses heft, considers other's'
complaints as trifling to his; and the Carm.-r
who earns every farthing by the sweat cf fii»
brow, blames the government for not eivii y
him the firft place in all tlieir fyftcms. Yet the
fair coriclufion is, that the burthen has been gen
erally nearly equal, and a common tax for th
defence of our country—And although Mr '!
readily fubferibed to the great iu.Tcrkigs a'u<i
patriotic exertions of the army, yet the-/ihou!d
also give credit for the attention of their coun
try, to the utmoll of her abilities. As the gen
tleman irom Pennsylvania is be ft acquainted
with the line of his own llate, Mr. Boudinot
undertook to mention what was done by Pcnn
fylvania for her own officers in addition to the
allowances of Congreft.—Duringthe war,ftores
were provided, from which they received'a par
tial fuppiy at the hard money prices; The de
predation of their pay was fully made uo to
them ; at the falesof the confifcated estates thdr
certificates were received as hard money; the
fame for lands in the lanii-office ;-*-lhu iut«vH
of 6 per cent, was paid 011 their cercili■ ares for
a number of years;—an additional bounty of
land was given to them, ready furveved and
free from expence; and when the fundiiigfyftem
took place, they had their 3 per cent, and de
ferred debt made good to 6 per cent, by addi
tional certificates from the Hate, which were
afterwards tedeemed at about jo and 37 per
cent, in hard money.
In August 1782, a memorial from the fiatc of
Pennsylvania called loudly on Congress for frelh
exertions towards the settlement of all accounts,
and making provision for the paying off the pub
lic debt. It is supposed the army took the hint,
and in December following, a deputation of field
officers with a llrong memorial on behalf of the
army, waited on Congress. The substance of
their requcft was, ift. some prefenf pay—2d.
a settlement of their accounts and fecurityfor
their balances—and 3dly, a commutation of their
halt pay for life ; as they found that the meainre
was odious to their fellow-citizens, and would
prevent the happy intercourse they expe&ed on
their return to private life. The present pay and
settlement of accounts were immediately provid
ed for, and astofecurity for the balances, Con •
grefs relolved, u as to what relates to the provid
ing of security for what shall be found due on
such settlement, that the troops of the United
States, in common ivith all the creditors of thefame r
have an undoubted right to expe<sl such security,
and that Congress will make erery effort in tfteir
power to obtain from the refpe&ive states sub
stantial funds adequate to the objeA, &c. &c."
As to the commutation, it Was urged on the
part of the army, that five or fix years full pay
was but a reasonable sum to make good their fuf
ferings, not only on account of the deficiency at
their pay, but also on other accounts, and that
it wiukl be more agreeable to their fellow-citi
zens, than that they ihould be pensioners for
life. Mr. B. mentioned this from his memory,
which he said was confirmed by the Journals of
Congress of February 1783, when a resolution
proposed, was prefaced in this manner: "Where
as in consequence of the faithful services of the
officers «f the aimy of the United States, and of
their great [offerings y not only on account tf the defi
ciency of their pay, but on other accounts, Congress
have, by divers resolutions, promised them half
pay, &c. &c. The want of money having been
raised as an objection against this measure, the
officers contended, that they expected nothing
more than certificates for their balances, in the
fame manner as other creditors of the United
States had received. Congress finally determined
to grant their request ; but to prevent the army
from alienating their certificates at an under
rate, and ( thereby affedting the public credit, it
was proposed that they (hou'd not be made tranl
ferablc. As soon as the delegation from the ar
my were made acquainted with this, they spurn
ed at the idea, and juflly a Iked if they were not
freemen—if the balances were not their own
property ; whether they had not the fame right
to diipofe of their property as they pleased, with
every other citizen ? They therefore insisted to
be put on a footing with every other creditor
who had received certificates. The r afoning
was too forcible to be anlwered with propriety,
and therefore Congress on the 22d March 1783,
resolved, 4< That such officers &c. lhall be en
titled to receive the amount of five years full pay
in money or securities on interest at 6 per cent,
per annum, as Con grefs {ball find nwft conveni
ent, instead of the half pay promised for life; the
faidfccuriiies to be such as Jhall be given to other crt
driors of the United States, provided it is at the opti
on cft.be tines of the rtfpehiveflqjes to accept or re
fufe the fame." " That with regard to the retiring
officers, the commutation, if accepted by them,
Jhall he in lieu of -whatever may be norv due, as ivelt
as what might hereafter become due. This
commutation amounted to 4,500 dollars to a
coloncl, and 2,400 dollars to a captain.
(Debate to be continued. J
Wednesday, January 23.
A communication from the Executive of the
ftate.of Maryland was read, by which it appears
that William Hindman, esq. is clewed a repre-Ontative in Congrefc from that {late, to sup
ply the' vacancy occasioned by the resignation
of lofhua Seney, esq. .
A petition of William Crow, relative to an
improvemunt in fire arras, was read, and refer
red to a felea committee.
Mr Parker moved, that the report of the
Secretary of War, on the petition of Thomas
Wifliart, should be referred to a leiea commit
tee This motion was agreed to, and Mr bark
er ' Mr. Gordon and Mr. Afhe appointed.
On motion of Mr. Hillhoufe, the report of
the felea committee on the petition of Ezekiel
Scott, was again read, and referred to a com
mittee of the whole on Saturday next.
Mr. Giles moved the following refolutions,viz.
Refo'ved, that the President of the United
States be requested to cause to be laid before this
House, cop.es of the authorities under which
loans have been negotiated, pursuant to the
of the 4th and nth of August 179°. to f
with copies of the authorities during the ap
plication of the monies borrowed.
Resolved, That the President of the United
States be requested to cause this House to be lur
ruihed with the names of the persons by whem
and to whom, the refpeaive payments ot the
French debt have been made in fiance, pur u
ant to the ad for that purpose, fpecifying the
dates of the refpeaive draughts upon the com
millioners in Holland, and the dates of the re
fpeaive payments of the debts: A fimi.ar ftate
nVent is requested, refpeaing the debts to Spain
and Holland. . .
Resolved, that the Secretary of the treasury
be direaed to lay before the this house, an ac
count, exhibiting half-monthly, the glances be
tween the United States and the bank of the
United States, including the several prancfe
bunks, from the commencement o. those witi
tutions to the end of the year 179 a.
Resolved, that the Secretary of the treasury
be direaed to lay before this House an account
of all monies, which may have tome into the
finking fund, from the commencement of that
institution, to the present time, fpecifying the
particular fund from which they have accrued,
and exhibiting, half yearly, the funis uninveft
«d, and where deposited.
Resolved, that the Secretary of the treasury
be direaed to report to this House the balance
of the unapplied revenues, at the end of the year
1792, fpecifying whether in money or bonds,
and noting where the money is deposited ; that
he also make report of all unapplied revenues,
which may have been obtained by the several
loans authorifedby law, and where such monies
are now deposited.
Mr. Giles dated in brief the reasons which
influenced him in bringing forward these refelu
tions. The leading motive, he observed, was
to obtain information. The refolutious being
handed to the S. eaker and read. Mr. Giles
atked leave to lay on the clerk's table a copy of
the reatons which he had offered in their sup
port. No objeaion being then made, the paper
containing thole reasons was handed to the clerk;
afterwards some members objecting to the pro
ceeding as unprecedented and informal, the pa
per was withdrawn.
The House then took the resolutions into con
sideration, and agreed to all of them without a
division.
Mr. Greenup laid before the House a repre
sentation &r resolution from the legislature otthe
slate of Kentucky, refpe&ing the aiSl of Con
gress making provision for the debts of the
United States, so far as refpe£s the aflumption
of the state debts, and a eopy of the inftru-fHons
to their Senators and Reprefcntatives, relative
thereto.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to au
thorize a loan in the notes or certificates of the
ieveral slates, &c. Mr. Steels in the chair.
Mr. WilJiafnfon's proviso was taken into con
iidergtion.
Mr. Macon offered another in lieu of Mr.
Williamfon's; the purport fpecifying particular
ly certain notes of the state of North-Carolina,
which that state had proscribed, and which he
proposed (hould be excluded from the loan now
under consideration. The certificates are those
i fitted at Wurrenton in 1786 ; certificates to pay
for a militia expedition against the Indians in
1788; and certificates iigned Patrick Travers.
Mr. V/illiamfon withdrew his motion, and
that moved by Mr. Macon was agreed to.
Several other amendments were moved, but
not agreed to.
The committee having gone thro* with the
difcuflion of the bill, rose and reported it with
sundry amendments. The House took the fame
into consideration—and agreed thereto.
Mr. Mercer then renewed his motion for a
provil'o, refpe&ing alignments or transfer- of
state certificates ; the obje& is to exclude from
the loan all certificate's so transferred or afligned,
from the firft day of January to the firft
day of June following.
Some further debate took place—lt was urg
ed in support of the motion, that the provision
now to be made for a certain description of pub
lic creditors, is merely a benefit; in cont'd ling
which, the government had a right to annex
what conditions they thought proper ; that it
was the duty of the legislature to take raeafures
to prevent those at a diltance from the feat of go
vernment from being speculated upon, to their
great injury and loss; that imputations have
been thrown upon the members of the legisla
ture, in refped to the advantages taken of the
uninformed on the firft assumption ; and there
fore, as an opportunity is now offered to the
Jioufa to purge themselves of all suspicions of
improper motives, the amendment ought to take
place. In answer to the objection on the provi
so's being retrofpe&ive, it was said, that it had
relation tofuch silignments or transfer? only, as
have taken pku e iincc this a& originated.
In oppo&ticn to the proviso, it was said, that
the prefrnt bill was not merely a bounty or bene •
fit conferred on the creditors; ir is a measure
jaft, rcafonuUcaud proper in itlelf; and on this
principle only it is to be juftified. Tt was further
urged, that the proviso was uncoriflittitional,
having a nioft ijuanifeft retrofpeaive operation,
interfering with contraas which the parties at
the time had a most undoubted right to make,
and thus altering the value of their property ; it
was reviving the principle of defcrimina.tion be
tween the original holders and the assignees, a
principle that had been so pointedly reprobated
by a large majority of the legislature on a former
occasion.
The Ayes and Noes were moved on Mr. Mer
cers proposition ; but the debate continuing till
after three o'clock, the House adjourned with
out calling the names.
Thursday, January 14.
After reading and referring feverai petitions,
the House refumcd the consideration of the bill
authorizing a loan in the notes or certificates of
the feverai states, &c. The amendment moved
by Mr. Mercer, refpeAing transfers and align
ments, was further difculfed—A long debate en
sued —The question being at length taken, it
was negatived Ayes 30 —Noes 33. The Ayes
and Noes being as follow :
A T E S.
Mcflf. Macon,
Madison,
Mercer,
Mess. Afhe,
Baldwin,
Clark,
Dayton,
Findley,
Grove,
Griffin,
Gregg,
Gilei",
•Greenup,
Heitter,
Jacobs,
Kitclicll,'
Nil",
Lee
White,
Williamfon,
Willis. 3<
NOES.
■vjP Mess. I.ivermorc,
Learned,
Leonard,
Murray,
Muhlenberg,
Sterrett,
W W. Smith,
Sturge*,
j. Smiih,
Sumpter,
Sylveller,
Sedgwick,
Tucker,
Thatcher,
Ward.
Vadfworth, 33.
Mess. Ames,
Barnwell,
Benfon,
Boudinot,
B. Bourne,
S Bourne,
Fitzfin>ons,
Gerry,
Gilman,
Goodhue,
Gordon,
Huger,
Hartley,
Hillhoufe,
Kittera,
Key,
Lawrancc,
Mr. Gerry moved an amendment,by the ad
dition of a clause, to recognize and provide for
receiving on the loan the new emiflion bills, so.
called—This motion was not feconde<i, and fell
of course.
Mr Williamfon moved, as an amendment, to
add the following words to the second fe&ion,
for fuppliesfurnijbed, or Jeruices rendered, during the
late ivar. After some debate, this motion was
negatived. Ayes 29 —Noes 30. The Ayes and
Noes being as follow .
A T
Mess. Aflie,
Baldwin,
Soudiont,
ClarK,
Dayton;
Findley,
Grove,
Giles,
Greenup,
Heifler,
Kitchell,
Macon,
Moore,
Madilbn,
Mercer
ti 0
Mess. Ames,
Barnwell,
Benfon,
S. Bourne,
Bourn,
FitzGmons,
Gerry,
Gilman,
Goodhue,
Gordon,
Hartley,
Hillhoufe,
Huger,
Jacobs,
Kittera,
Mr. Dayton moved to amend the firft sec
tion, by altering- the fame so as to postpone the
commencement of the fubferiptions to the loan
to the 15th of January 1794.
Mr. Gerry made some observations in opposi
tion to this motion.
The House, without taking a question on it,
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, January 25.
Mr. Muhlenberg presented the petition of
Julius Kirper, praying compensation for lolT
es and services during the late war—read and
laid on the table.
Mr. Parker brought In a report on the pe
tition of Thomas Wifiiart, the purport of
which is, that the petitioner be allowed the
pay of a Lieutenant, from the 15th N0v.1776,
to 15th 0&- 1781.
A bill to provide for the adjustment ol* the
claim of Joseph Henderfon again ft the United
States, was twice read, and committed for
to-morrow.
A bill granting further corn pen fat ion to cer
tain receivers ofcontinental taxes, 011 motion,
of Mr. Giles, was taken up in committee of
tlie whole—Mr. Key in the chair—The ofcjcft
of this bill is to grant an additional allowance
to such receivers as continued in serVice aft«r
275
Dec. 31ft, 17&2. After fame observations
from several member: —the committee rose
and reported the bill without amendment—
The House took the fame into confide ration,
no motion of amendment being made, the
queflion was, on eng.rolling the biif—This was
opposed—and after 1 aline remarks, was deter
mined in the negative—ayes 22, noes 24 —by
which decision the bill is loft.
The House retained-the con fide rat ion of the
bill to authorize a loan in the notes or cer
tificates of the individual States, Szc.
Mr. Dayton's amendment to postpone the
lubferiptions to the loan to January, 1794, was
further discussed—the object of which is, that
the balances on the settlement of the accounts
lhall be known and reviewed, if it shall be
thought ivecelTary,'previous to the commence
ment of the Joan. This amendment was car
ried in the affirmative —Ayes 39 —Noes 20.
An amendment, by way oi' proviso, was
moved by Mr. Boudinot, the object of which
is to give a preference in the loan to certifi
cates ifTued expressly for JerviUs, artel Jupplies
during the war—this was adopted.
Mr. Tuckcr moved another proviso ; the pur
port of which is that certificates, iflued in lieu
of Certificates given for ferviles and fupplirs,
should be considered a® or.guul certificates—
This was not agreed to.
The qaeftion on engrofiing the bill was deter
mined by ayes and noes—these bt ing equally di
vided, viz. ayes 32, noes 32 —
The Speaker gave the calling vote in the afftr
m3tivr.
[The Ayes and Noes Jhall appear in our next.']
Adjourned till to-morrow*
Milledge,
Moore,
Orr,
Page,
Parker,
Steele,
Behoonmaker,
Tread well,
.'Vjeiuble.
£ S.
Mess. Murray,
Muhlenberg,
Niles,
Page,
Parker,
Schoonmaker,
J. Smith,
Steele,
Treadwell,
Venable,
White,
Williamfon,
Milledge,
Orr,
£ S.
Mess. Lawrance,
Learned,
Livcrmore,
Sedgwick,
W. Smith,
Sterrett,
Sturges,
Sumpter,
Syivefter,
Thatcher,
Tucker,
Wadlworth.
Ward,
Willis,
Leonard, 30.
Philadelphia, Jan. 26.
ExtraEl of a letter, dated Liverpool, Nov 7, 1792.
u Enclosed are the returns cf the prices of
corn, copied from the London Gazette. This
port, we expefl-, is not to open this month to
ibreign wheat. 1 "
We are informed, that the Ele&ors of the
State of Kentucky, voted for George Wash
ington and Thomas Jefferson, as President
and Vice-President of the United States.
Capt. Henly, who was supposed to be killed,
at the time his party was attacked and de
feated on the Cumberland path, is now a pri
soner at "Will's town, in the Cherokee nation.
Milton, in his Areopagitica, or Treatise on
the Liberty of unlictnfed Printing, has this fine
energetic Sentence, which may be applied to
the French Revolution :— u Methinks I fee
in my mind a noble and puiflant Nation, rou
sing herfelf like the fitting Man after Sleep,
and fliaking her (invincible Locks; methinks
I fee her an Eagle renewing her mighty Youth,
and kindling her undazzled Eyes at the lull
and Mid-Day Beam ; purging and qnfealing
her Jong-abuTed Sight at the Fountain itfelt
of heavenly Radiance, while the whole Flock
of timorous and Noisy Birds, with thoje that
love the Twilight, flutter about, amazed at
what she means, and in their envious Gabble
would progiYoiticate a Year of Seifts and,
Schisms."
The word Republican, according to a late
definition of the term, in a letter, said to be
written in London, ought to be fceuted as well
as the word Arijlocrat.—la that letter, Repub
licans, Tories and Aristocrats, are represented
as animals of one and the fame species—the
word Democrat only, conveying the true idea
of a real friend to liberty and equality. —
What Tyroi our mod enlightened and patriotic
citizens are in the school of politics!— Surely
mankind have been mistaken in supposing that
the belittled and belittling inhabitants of the
United States could exhibit any originality of
character, or any example from which the
European world could take a hint with advan
tage—No, this ntve* can be.
The import of certain ftrittures on the con
duct ot the Chief Magistrate of the Union a
inounts to this—Superior merit may repeat
edly concenter the luffrages of all the people
of the United States in his favor in a moll
unexampled manner—but from that moment,
it ia a degradation of the republican charac
ter, for am individual to pay him (ommo*
re/pest. , . .
The tables are fairly turned—The exam
ple of the United States has been proposed for
the imitation of all the reft of the world—
but it seems we are now left in the rear by
our Gallic allies, in the glorious race of Li
berty ; and their example is in turn, con
stantly cited by some fupe'ior friends to the
lights of man for a model to this country. —
We may very Ihortly expect to hear that ex
perience is the most treacherous guide in poli
tics— honesty hardly dares ftiew her head at
the prcfent time.—
Every point gained by the present CongreJr y
conducive to the protection and jprefervation
of the public credit, may be justly cobfidered
as tending to contra&ii.g the sphere of fpe
culatioo "-for though there can be little doubt
hut that a majority of the next Congress will
be influenced in their decisions by those prin
ciples of Zionejly and public faith y which have
governed their p rede cellars vet from present
appearances it is but natural to anticipate a
variety of manoeuvres to subvert the funding
lyftem, in such niahner as again to open the
flood-gates of that reprobated business.
No government can trifle with the public
credit with impunity. The ideas ot honest
men on this point, are as transparent as the
rays of truth—tbey are always just, delicate
and exquisite—An adherence to theplain max
ims resulting from these principles, will prove
the salvation of a country,when every other in
ternal resource is exhausted. It is to be hoped
there will never be found a class of men in
this country who will be so hardy as openly to
propose applying the fpunge to the public debt
—but it is but one remove from this to excite
suspicions of the public honor.
JfuJi pubhjhcd, "
By H. & P. Rice,
No. 50, Market-Street,
the SYSTEM OF
cyAovt- <^fcand<>
Used bv Mr. Lloyd, in taking down th<*
DEBATES of CONGRESS,
*** It e pre fen tat ion having been made, that t'e
shortness of the period, limited Jpr the Svhjcripuor,,
has deprived many genthmen at & diflai.ee of an op
portunity• ojfending in their names ;—the Editor, in
order to accommodate them, and to render this p'4 lo
cation more extenfvely "fefvi, has determined vet to
raise the price to a DoiJar ar.d half (as intended] he
fore th-epjte<utii of March j—-making hnivcrer a dis
crimination, in favor of the aflkdl Subftribei j, ~h
printing thf ir copies o/i fiipcfine Roval writing
paper. A few remaining copies of this kind uv I
he delivered to the-cartiefl oj the non-juhfr 101 ng pur
chajeri) at thejame price as those on the ctimfruiK
printing paper, \\is, Onr Dollar, ,n marbled coves <;
neatly bound, a Ficuch Cjowd,
Jan. 26,
pJST, PUBLISH*,#,
By William Young,
BOOKSELLER,
No. 52 y in the cor rofChefnut-Strret,
In two large o&avo »»lu»>•.■■■ t?-
(Price Foui
ESS
INTELLECTUAL suntHS of
M
Bx ThpMas Rf jd. . .s .Edinburgh.
Profeffoi of Mora' ?ii i: in ihc Untvcifuy
IT would r the pubhlher to
mention ah '!>i ' ting the literary ta
lents of an a to nerally known and
cilccmed. K pear necessary to rr
qneft atWn'.i > work, whofc'.mport
ance is.univcrf.WiY >wledged. Thofrwho
have read theancient systems and these volumes,
will readily perceive, ibat the knowledge of
philosophy, advances from a state of infancy,
towards maturity ; nor v;ill it appear too much,
when it is said. that Dr. Reid bas divrft-*d moral
science from thai Veil under which for so many
aoes, it has been concealed, by ambiguous words
and the jargon of the' ichools. Thus he hasaded
that friendly part to moral science, which the
ingenious Newton and Fergufon did to natural
philosophy ; tfre'ir united and (kilful efforts, ren
der philosophy not-only an ufeful, but a pleasant
exercise, and a more fafe introduction to the
most important Audits.— It is impra6licable to
infeH the lengthy-reviews of this work. and to
give a part, would be unfriendly to the author
and reviewers.
ALSO,
Neatly bound, in two volumeso&avo,
Price one and a halj Dollar,
A COMMENTARY
ON THE
BOOK of PSALMS.
IN which their literal or historical sense, as
they relate to King David, and the Peopl® of
Israel, is illustrated, and their application to
Mefliah, to the Church, and to individuals, as
members thereof, is pointed out ; with a view
to render the use of the Psalter pleating and pro
fitable to all orders and degrees of Christians.
7he firji American Edition from the 4th Britijfi.
By George, Lord Bishop of Norwich, and
Pre&dent of Magdalen College, Oxford.
ZIMMERMANNon SOLItUDE,
Price 7-8 Dollar.
SCOTTs FORCE"Of TRUTH,
Price, bound and lettered, 44-100 Dollar.
JvJl come to hand,
DJVIES' SERMONS,
Complete in 3 volumes o£lavo,
Price, bound, 5 25-100 Dollar.
Jan. 26.
A New Poll-Road.
HAVING been desired to eftablilh a poft
road from Reading, in the (late of Perin
fylvania, to Williarr.fburg, at the Great Foiks of
the Genefee river, Notice is hereby given, that
proposals will be received at the General Post-
Office, for carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Williamlburg aforefaid, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading and the town of
Northumberland ; trcm the latter place to Loyal
Sock creek ; thence to I-ycoming creek ; thence
in the new road to the Painted Post, on Tioga
river; and thence to Williamfburg.
The proposals will be received until the ljtli
of March next, inclusively ; the carriage of the
mail to commence within one after-
wards.
Nectflary Poft-Offices arc to be eflablifhca oa
the route, and such per Tons appointed Post
masters as the Contractor shall name, and the
Poftmafter-Gencral approve.
Within three months after the carriage of this
mail is commenced, the Contractor is to (late to
the Poftmaiter-General the days and hours of its
arrival and departure at and from ihe prin( ipal
Pott-offices, which experience shall prove to be
most convenient; and thereafter the mail is to
be delivered at the rcfpe&ivc Puft-offices at the
hours so fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted,
on penally of one dollar for each hour's delay ;
and for the non-prrformance of a trip, the Con
trafior to forfeit twenty dollars.
The term of the coi»tra6t cannot exceed eight
years. During its continuance the Contra&or is
to receive ihe rates of portage by law ellabiilhcd,
and to have the exclulive ptivilege of carrying
letters and packets for hite, such excep;ed, as
shall he sent by a special rm (Tenger, Of which art
or fnall be by law declared free.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P.M.G,
General Pflji-Ojjicc, Jan. 22, 1793.
4 CFOR SALE,
By the Suifaiicr, at It'afjiulhtrecl Wharf,
BILL or EXCHANGE
Madeira AVine,
Tit for imiacdfii* use, & quarter calks,
r T , £NEljtlfKK WU'E.'in pipe*.
JL SHERRY INK, in quarter c?fcs,
WESTViXDIA KVM. ». 3 4 piool,
OI.D lU4AM,©%-, |£UJD SHU.I X,
COPPERAS, Bfl IMS lONh, ALLUM,
Twpßali» io-4 BLANKET}, aua
A Bate of MUSLI NS. ( "
A new 13-4 J»ck CABi>E, tao f»'hom» ten*.
GEORGE MEADE.
PrJladclphia, Jan. 19, 1793. <p.im
TO 3E SOLD, or LEASED
lUX SEVEN OR TFN YEAR S,
7 HE FOLLOWING
ft.'--
HOUSES.
ONE on Walnut-fticei, nedr Fourth-street,
23 feet front, has two parlours below, Ihe
front one 21-*- by fetrythe bsck parlour is
18 by 14 feec. The from room up (lairs is 263
by feet. "There are fivr good cTia'mVers in
this house, befVdes the garret is divided inio
three rooms, tn two uf.thjcm there are firc
placr '
The other House is 27 fert upon W«»lnut
ftrect, and 52 feet upon 4th flrreP; there are two
good parlours bejow. one of'them 25 by 26 1-2
feet, the other 95 by 18 1-2 fe-et, arid seven com
. "Icie bt?d»sh3nibcis; beiides th 6 garret »s di
vided iiTTft —g of whfich Vooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under ; the largcft house h\s also a
house-keeper's room. It is intended there fha 11
be a communication from both-oF t.hefe hopfes
to a neighbouring ice-house, fufHciently large to
supply 3 houlVs. Wuhin 50 yards of these
lioufes, (here wiLJ be compleat Gables, ancj ,C°wch
houses, for l oth houses ; they will be fimlbed
in the tnoll compleat manner, ana the kevs
ready to be delivered early in the summer".
On paying half the money down (if,fold) the
olht r half may he paid by inflalmems. or the
whole may remain lor 5 years, paying interell
and giving (ecurity on the premifej.
For terms of lale or leafc, apply to the Sub
scriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has jor SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city; amounting to t wen?y-fi\e pounds
hxfeen fhiilingsand per intVum.
Alio, a<|uan'ity of BAGS, that will contain two
and a half and three and a half bushels.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1792. e p? m
B\ the Comrnilliouers aopointed to prepare
the Public Buildings, &c. within the City
of W,dfhingtou, lor ihe reception of Congress
and for their permanent residence after the year
1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OFTHE
Federal City;
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz.
1 Supeib Hotel, with baths, )
out houses, &c.&c. to coil ) s°> co °
i Cash Pnze 25.000
1 ditto 20,000
1 ditto 15,000
1 ditto 10,000
2 di/io 5,000 are 10,000
10 ditto i,coo 10,000
20 ditto 500 10,000
100 ditto too 10,000
200 ditto 50 10,000
4 co ditto 25 io,coo'
ljOco ditto 20 20,000
15,000 ditto 10 150,000
16,737 Prizes
33,263 Blanks
•
Tlje fole'defi jii of this Lottery beln.r i» facili
,atc o llls tofttUia;.wuiu bef u ),l, c
Buildings it lilt* particular difire of the Con,-
m.ffionerjMrtra, |>e eScdcil Jv/iri,x as
tew deductions ficm 111 e Prizes as poOiblr— how -
trfdeavnis niay be anlweied.the Scbetife!
°i_ df .n'<raftrate'. The keys of
the Hdtel; wnrn complcat, will be dci!,v W d.«o ,
the fortunite poffrffor of the tiqkft drawn'a
agaiuft its nuftvbeY. 1
*"»» will be ,paid, without >
7 "<°"h "Jter the dmp,in X , bv',
" 81 or at fu£h ;
T-Lifj B ' m^ sa ? '"ayte hcicaltcr announced. '
nit tt '"If"'' 11 commence on Monday the I
9th of Septcmbc. n.xi, at the City of Wafting.
Tukets mavbH,,,d 0 | C ol. \V;n. DUhns, Citv
r rM gl °" ;of Mcff,s - "''ft
a'■?' 1 ' u c :of Mr " Pc '" Eoßot/-
published. °' hCr P ' W " wiU
N. B ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS w ,!l
be givo, For the beII P,an of an elegant and t „
ve ?; c ( u HOTEL 0,. IXX, wllh $Jj
] Slablrs, and oilur oui houses, ifprrfented
morhjort tht 10 ,4 oj April next , ,nd a p ? c
'erencc W.ll hegmn in the Anift for a Con
trafl, provided he |,e duly qualified to
compJcat his plan. The ground m, which
the hotel and pn[ houses are to he ereaed, win
.« ?r
with.he elevai 'ons, &c. compleat ; and " aco
mm "ft 1 rc u ftardcd by !hc A.clmea a ;°he
mmoft l.mit in the exprnfe )or ™
P" r P° fc - S. BI.ODCET
Agent for the affans of the City.
"Javuar\ ig.
A large Cellar to Let
Sufiatntiy cufachus tojlorc fcvtral hundred iuruU
*•«!«».,c of the Pk, *- t4 ». ea °" n " s -
By Thomas Dobfon,
eovkjcUcr, at the Stone-Houje, in Second Jireet,
f'HILADEL PHI A,
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
on, a DICTIONARY of ARTS, SCIENCES,
AMD' ' ' '
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
THE History, Theory, and Pia&ice, of each,
| according to the Latest Difcuveries and im
provements : and full Explanations given of the
various detached parts of Knowledge, whether
relating to Artificial Obj»rtU, or to
Matters Encltfiallical, Civil, Military., Commer
cial, See. Including Elucidations of the most im
portant Topics relative to Religion,Morals,Man
nerg, and the Oeconomv of Lie : together with
a Description of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, . throughout
the World ; a General Hiftoiy, Ancient and
Modern, bPftitf different' Empires, Kingdoms,
and States; and an account o f the Lives of the
molt Eminent Perfcns in every Ration, from the
earlieit ages down to the present times. Com
piled fronr tiie wi it iftg» of the heft authors, in
fevertf Languages ; the nioft approved DiChona
-1 ies, as well of General Science as of particular
branches ; the TiiMifa&ioiis, Journals, and Me
moirs dfthe fearned societies, both ai home and
abroad—the MS. lt&ures of eminent profeffors
on difFerent Sciences : and a variety of original
Materials, fumiihed by an extensive Correfpoo
dence.
The Sevrnth Volume contains a description
ps Mount htij.i, Eudiometer, JLxihangr, Expe
rimental Plulofopiiy, Syifem of Faiiiery,
fyftttn, Tire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Fofli's, history of France, Gardening, Gaij
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Glass,
See. with a variety ol a nicies in natural history,
biography and mifcelianies. Illustrated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. Ihe work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the pu'pofe") which
will be occasionally fenewed before they con
tra6t a worn appearance.
11. The woi kis furnifhed in boards, in volumes
or haif-voJunies, as fubferibers chufe; the price
ot the whole volumes, five dollars each, o't the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for *hcn delivered, thepi ice of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
fdeh fucceedlng volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered Unless paid for.
111. In the couife of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved i" Philadelphia : which by
Jar exceed in number those given in any other
jcicntific () iaionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant irontif
ptece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expelled the work will be compiifed in
about eighteen voJumes in quarto.
Th°fe vviftvto become poflWlors of
this valuable wot k will pleafeto be in their
applications, as the fubfeription is nearly closed
Jan. 23.
City of Washington.
A NUMBER
1 fered lor file at aufiinn, by the Commif
fiortrts, Or, the',7,l, day of September next—
j ' ourlh P art <»» th <= purchase moncy ls t0 be
paid down the rtfidueat three equal annual pay
ments wtth yearly unereft <Jh the whole princi
pal unpaid. 1
JOHN M. GANTT, CLrk to the Com',,.
Dollars 350,000
M> I r ° ,C Gtn<,ral Aflembly Of
Mary and, concerning the Territory of C„
lumbia, and the City o! Waging,o^
*' Be it enabled, That anv fa**;*- >
d "f. 0r * er "j t ' r to Ic made, take aJZldfon/t
E'is t'JTt X T " n ' 0n «*■
vtyenUy hm, and transmitted to and be inherited"/?*
%&&&£?*" "X&
J j "- J 9- , r
To the Public.
'"F'HE Subscribers haying been appointed a
. committee of the Board of the Trustee, of
IheUn.verfi.y of North-Carolina, for tb^pur
P° e °f "ceiving proposals from such gentlemen
Mntlutl r nderuk f
vouiu ui that initiiution. takr
<;f making known to the public .heiST*
such gentlemen should (ifrn ; fv tHr' r c
io the fubfcribcis ° ' ) if'chuaiion
Languages, particularly the Enel.'l, H,lh
annent and modern-',h, R itS."'"—■ «'"ory,
-nd Moral Phil„f n ph,~l^
Mathematics and VatLai pV-h°\ dge ot lhc
lure and Botany w h rh cul
ture n >» with the pnnciples of Aichi.
b r h " of
commended, will rcccive'vcrv h"" WCi ' ' C "
atelv. C 10 b ';"7: ,ard lnr " nmed "
SAMUEL ASHE.
A- MOOHK,
JOHN HAVE,
DAVID STOKE
SAM. M'COKKLES
"° 2 5 fp2in
Jl/ST PUBLISHED,
VOLUME VII, of
MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new :
BT WHICH
air digciied into the Form of DiltinCi,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS :
COMPREHENDING
-276-
Insurance Company.
AT a general meeting (by adjournment) of
the Insurance Company of North-America,
on Wednesday thei6ih iniiant,
It was Resolved,
THAT the Instalments which, according!®
the Conftiiution, will bccomc due 00 the fecoud
Monday of July and January next, or either of
them, may be paid by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so .paying
such nifUluient, or inltalni nts, shall receive a
proportionate share of the DiviJendi thereafter
to be made, Calculating such share from the firft
day oft he month fucr ceding inch payments ic
fptttively. Extract from the Minutes, •
EBEN. HAZARD, Scc'ry.
Philadelphia, Jan. 23.
BANK OFT HE UNITED STATES.
RtSOL VS.D,
THAT the authorsftd to rcceive
from the proprietor of any number of com
pleat shares, such Certificates, not in his own
name, as he may be the proprietor of; and after
cancelling the fame, toiiTut a new Certificptoor
Certificates in lieu thereof, in the name or such
propri«tor.
Resolved, That in all future transfers of
compleat shares in the capital flock of the Bank,
the Certificates of the Ih.'res transferred be can
celled, and a new Certificate or Certificates be
issued in the name of the transferee or purchaser.
R esol v ed, That the Certificates mi futuie
issued, be £01 one or more (hares, as the pro
prietor may request; and the new Certificate or
Certificates [hall be of correfpondei>t numbeis
with those in lieu of which they arc iiTued).
ep. 3 w JOHN KEAN, Carter.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Phi Lad e lfhi a, January 7, >793.
NOTICE, is hereby given, that theie will be
paid at the Bank, alter the 17th inflant, to
the Stockholders or their duly
the fpllowing Turns, bfing the Divi
dend declari 4 for ihe lad fix months, viz.
For each fharebearing dividend from the id
of July,' STxttcn Doll.iri.
For each fbare bearing dividend from the tft
of Augufl, Fifteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
For each share bearing dividend from tb« lft
of September. I'ourtetn Dollars, 67 Cents.
For each (hare.bearing dividend Irom the tft
of October, Fourteen Dollars.
For each [hare bearing dividend from the-id
of November, Thiiteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
For each Qtuti bearing dividend tmm tile tft
of December, Twelve Dollars,. 67 Cents.
For each three-quarter share, Twelve Dollars.
By order of the Prefiden! and Directors,
3 W JOHNKF.AN, Cashier.
dfficcisol ihe laic New-Jc,ley line ar=
requested t.i .neet at the houft: of jAMts
Dkake, 111 Ntw-Bruiifwick, on Thursday the
jevtntll day of February next, at the hour of Ten
>11 the morning, 10 takf inio coijhderation ihe
application of different lines of the late arini,
now before the Congrcfs of the United States. '
JOHN CUMMING,
JONATHAN RHEA,
January i6ih, 1753.
A GREAT BARGAIN..
For Sale, a beautiful situation on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
, and Ml a inn; of dire&ion towards the Federal
City and GeorgcTown.m full view ol each olace
commanding a profpeft of the river and adjacent
country oi Maryland and Virginia, f or J m
miles; about 45 or 5 o acres of Lane), lyih-r di
• rectiy on the nvcr, will be fold, with the"iin
proven,c-nts, which are, a two-story framed
dwell,ng-lioure, neatly finifhed, a kitchen, office
buck fmoke-hquje and dairy, two-story framed
bam, a well of excellent water, and an , c e
houlr, a yard and garden, neatly railed a'nd
highly improved, with a number of other ne
ceuary improvements ; the whole of the land
enclosed with poftj andrails. tenor fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of orafs I. s
contiguity to those three towns mull render it an
object worthy the attention of any person who
wilhes Lo invest money in a property that must
enhance in value, m proportion to the rapid in
cre.fe of ,he Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property hes nearly in a
central fiction to each place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep ffiore and harbour,
capable of receiving vessels of any burden It
may not be improper to observe, that mea of
judgment ,hink a profitable and convenient
Ferry mignl be ere/Jed here to the City of
Wafting,on and the Maryland fWs leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.- Also to fell. 21 ,
V 'i', m r d " tand I ', about lhrce ,nlles
«h,d, will suit well to fuppiy the above in
wood and timber. The title may be seen ,0 the
above property which is indifpniaMe, and terms
known by appl.eanon to the fubfciiber, liv,„„
OH the premtfes. * °
December 12M, 1792,
RUN," A WAY
Ar*o« THE SUBSCRIBER, THE 12 ,h A„„ - ,
NEGRO BOY, »n^ndull
u / l " day of Tune, lie w?«: , •
Bucks County, a „d Lric'd before ?
»nd an old Kelt Hal. Who, V er . L CC ,"'
Boy,and bring, h, m to JacorMer," Uf> d
Su.n-id.nd, ft.a.l,
JACOS »WWR*AU. L.J. Col
Dec. 21
Baldwin dade
ep 2 m
Federal City.
Tllji. Subscriber will convey forever I
. good and fufticient deed, Thirty T J
the City of Walhmgton, f, mated Ll'l2
Capitol Street, to any or
men—provided they will agree to erert ther
on good and fufficient brick house,, w , thi
tnree years from the date hereof.
c f ANiEL CARROLL, ~t D„d4 in . ton
City of H*Jkn,gtm, L> cc . 31, 1 7 q 2 . '^
5° Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 2 yh i„(bm, a |, ke|v N
gro Ma# edited Isaac, about timwiwh-,
years old, fivq feet fix or cj||bl „ I£ h, s h^h / =
well made tellow, (ond ot „lk h,, ' !
nrouih, and (hows bis icetj, very ni(Kh w( *
talking; had on whcqi he vent away ihi
linen Onrt, a (hurt white kcrfey over
a very jligh collar and pla.p, breatf Jul, b«t, oni
which appear to have been very gay • a n ~ >•
white kersey bieechrs, a pair o( wh,,«' kim v,„.
stocking, a pair of (hoes wuh (1,,r K , i„
and a cnarfc hat j ,|| lhc ,i„ lvr ci(nhcJ ' •
molt new. Said Negro was fprmerly the ar'n
perty ot Mr. William Thomas, |„ e 0 , k ."i
County, near George-Town OofcHoads,
treated, and bas tor several years be€u ernulot ,1
111 that neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr
Maxwell, and lately by John and lames
Car mack, as a. waggon, r, which buhnefs he „
Veil accrued with, and is what he prete-, •
and ha, been engaged in driving a irop,'
• aid Crqfs.Roads to Duck-Creek, until
Aujuft bit. I expert he w,li make his way lor
the neighbourhood? of Georg--Tow n , D wk . '
Creek, D»ver qr Wilmington. The above r, '
waid will be paid if delivered to me in th k
place, or Thirty Doilais if secured in any
to that I get him again. He is an artful leltdw'
and when taken, V»itl make his cltaoc, unlcfj
particularly ft cured.
Easton, OWEN KENNARD.
7albotCounty, Mary/and, D:c. 28, 1792. 2m
B O
o K S-,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
M A T H E VV CAR. £ y
AV 118, Miukct-Strtct, I'hilwjclp/iia.
'• A MERIC ANMUStU.M,f,o m „ s con,n,
■L X ment in J jnu S ry 1787, to Junc, 7Q , j n
clever, vpls Puce, neatly bound and l, UUlo
jeventeert dollars ana three fifths.
1 his work, which is now condufled nn an im.
jirovid plan, containing the bed pieces puLl.flu.i
will 3 !! f aSa 7 ij ' "I'gPvemacn,,
will he found to con,am at lead as »«« a variety
of political, agricultural, and mifcejlaneous effav 1
is any ever published <n America. Pcihapsirmo
pne work are so many valuable docun, ntsrefprfi,
in 3 the history of this country, coile&cd togefhS
His Lxceflency the Prefideiuol the Tinned State,'
hasdedared of it, that •< a more ufeful
plan has ncuer been undertaken in America, nor
♦ne more dele.v.ng ot public encoura K em<„,..*
fl'S luoicnption is two dollars and a l„ll uer
l™/- ,n the who w.lh'to
i lu Pffl'cd with this work, are requcftcd to L'ivc
qompiiijipn to (nends in tl-, e ,pi(y lubfci ibe/ or
1" rece.ve ,f Ar,y of the back numbers
nay be had in order to complete set s .
< 2. Smith's Letters to Man ird Women, on Nurf.
,ng and the management of Children.
'• We recommend theft letters to the perusal of
those to whom they are particularly I'ddicfled."—
Monthly Review; vol; 38, p. 101--Puce, bound,
62 rents.
3 Duncan's Elements of Logic— 75 cents.
4. Beauties of fr lelding— cent*.
5. Beauties of Blair—so cents.
P<K ' te * Li'irary, containing Mis»
More sLtTays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penninir
[oll s Advice, Mjrehioricls ot Lambert's Advice,
Leuei- io a newly married Lad v.Mrs. Cha
pnne on command ot Temper, More':, rabies tor
Ihe Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Snmh's History of New-York. Piiceadpl
iar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moial Science, by James Beat
t'c, L. L D. pI ofeir>r of moral philosophy and
Wgic in the Marifcha 1 College, Abeideen—Price
ihree-foiirths ot a dollar. Ol this |„«,k the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 6g,'p. 628) faj : "We
lipve seen nothing on thel'e fubjrdh more plain,
more pcrfpicuous, or more genei ally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univerfitvin Phi
i^delphia.
9. Jicauttcs of Poetry. Price four-filths of a
dollar.
10. lilair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
11. N.-cker'sTreatifc on the importanceof Re
ligious Opinions.—Price foin-fif.hsot a dollar,
eu'i ®* iin, " ali °o of the Obfervatinns ot Lord
onemel4 011 American Commerce—Price, 011 very
hhe,paper, j S.hsofa dollar.
13. Tlie Conftitutipns ol the several United States,
with the Federal Conftliution, &c. Price five,
eighths of a dollar.
i - M'Fmgal. Pricelhree-eightlis of a dollar.
15. American jest Book. Price thrccfifths of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 Ihe Doway Trandation of the Vulgate Bi.
m quarto—price,elegamly bound and kttei
cq, 50/2-..plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecura—Price a
quarter dollar.
we " Pr 'ce a quarter dollar. •
so..Chriftis u Economy.. Price a fifthof;. d«llar.
at.* Htitory of Charles Grandilon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a th-ir<i
a dollar,
aj. .S-jleft Poems, chiefly American-—Price a
sixth o! 3 dollar.
Said Car tv ha .-for sale, a large sfffortmrnt of
?° ''i E" r o[jpan ?s will as American editions,
which he will difpofc of on the mod reasonable
terms. Countiy gentlemen, who (avor him with
commands, may depend upon being fupplicd in
'he moll latislactory manner. A liberal allowance
:o luch as purchal" quant tics for public libtaties
<>r to fell again.
jSi" The prut of this Gozittt 11 Jh ie Dollar t
t