A NATIONAL PAP aR, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NVPTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 75 of Vol. IV.]
FOR SALE,
By the Stibjcriher, *t Walnut-Street Wharf,
BILL or EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fif for irntvediaie u!c, in pipe* & quarter calks,
TENEIIIFFE WINE, id pipr»,
SHERRY WINE, ii> quarter calks,
WEST.INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proul,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Bales 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new .13*4 Inch CABLE, 120 fathoms long.
GEORGE MEADE,
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1793. epzm
TO BE SOLD, OR LEASED
KOlt SEVEN OR T F. N VIAKS,
THE FOLLOWING
HOUSE
ONE on Walnut-street, near Fourth-street,
23 feet front, has two parlours below, the
ft out one 21J by 17J feet, the back parlour is
18 by 14 feet. The front room up ftdirs is
by feet. There are five good chambers in
this house, besides the garret is divided into
three rooms, in two of them there are fire
places.
The other House is 27 feet upon Walnut-
Irect, and 52 feet upon 41 h ftjrct; there arc tw©
joori parlours below, one of them 25 by 20 1-2
fee t, ihe other 25 by 18 1-2 feet, and seven com
plete btd-chambtis; besides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
tinder the houses ; the largest house has also a
houfe-keepn's room. It is intended there (Via 11
be a communication from both of these houses
to a neighbouring ice-honfc, fufficiently large to
supply 3 lioufcs. Within 50 v&rds of these
houses, there will be compleat ftablcs and coach
houses, tor both houles ; they will be finifhed
in the mod compleat manner, and the keys
ready to be delivered early in the fummcr.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
oth r half may be paid bv instalments, 01 the
whole may remain tor £ years, paying intcreft
and giving security on the prcmifes.
For terms of sale or leafc, apply to the Sub
scriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has J or SALE,
Sundrv Ground Rents,
✓ 7
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
sixteen (Hillings and fix-pcnce, per annum.
Aifo, a quan'ity of BAGS, that will contain two
and a half and three and.a half bufheh.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1792.
$o Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 25th instant, a likely Ne
gro Man called Isaac, about twenty-three
ycaisoid, five feci fix or eight inches high, a
well made fellow, fond of talking, hes a large
mouth, and (hows his teeth very much when
talking ; had on when he went away, a brown
linen (hirt, a fhoit white kersey over jacket with
a very high collar and platn breast, with buttons
which appear to have been very gay ; a pair of
white kersey brccches, a pair of white knit yarn
flocking*, a pair of (hoc* with firings in them,
and a coarse hat ; ail (he above clothes a*e al
nioft new. Said Negro was fprmcily the 010-
pctty of Mr. William Thomas, lare of Kent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, do
ceafed, and has for several years been cmplovcd
in that neighbourhood, and principally by •• Mr.
MaxweJl, and lately by Messrs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, which buAtiefs lie is
well acquainted with, and is what he prefers ;
and has been cng'ged in driving a waggon from
said Cross-Roads to Duck-Creek, See. until
last. I expe& he will make his way for
the neighbourhood j of George-Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
■wavd will be paid if delivered to me in this
place, or Thirty Doilais if feeuied in any goal,
so that I get him again. He is an anful fellow,
and when taken, will make his clcape, utilcfs
parti.ularly secured.
tASTON, OWEN KENNARD.
TaibotCounty, Maryland % Dec. 28, 2m
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or bet w« en Piovidence
and Button, a very ftnall TRUNK, coveted
vith feal-ik.n of a reddilh colour, with white
fuots. It contained a quautnv of South and
North-Caiohna State Noi<s and a few of the
Sta'e of Rhodt-.lflanrt • with other papers,which
Can only be if r*ireabL to the propi i< (or. The
Sute-uotes are ch. eked at the offices Irom whrnce
•Hey 'ftWd. Any peifon producing the T1 uiik
(with its contents) to JOHN' MARSTON, of
80fi.,11, WILLIAM HALL, of P.ovicirnce,
Mctf.s FATI ftsON and BRASHER, New-
York, cr Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, [hall receive the above rrward, or for any
frartofthe pr4pi-ttv, Otic Hundred Dollars.
Boston, Nov. 28. eptf.
A large Cellar to Let,
Sufficiently capacious to JloreJeveral hundred bands.
ilaquirc ol the PiiKita
Fir-tie GAZETTE oflht UNITED STATiS
MR. Fekmo,
Jftndyou Sketches of the Proceedings of a Club of
Hon. and horned Gentlemen ,friends ojthe P 1
oj this State, at a vieeting held in the early part
of lafl month.—The genius and the tmiabltncfs
of Tome of the members who comp'fe that Club,
deserve to be held up to the admiration of the
world. 1 thercjore hope, that you zvi/l do the
Citizens of t\i> State particularly, the favor of
fubltffiing them. Your's, 2.
ON the 3d day of January, in the year of
our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-three, the seventeenth year of
American independence, and the third year of
the Presidency of the Hon. T. M. Esq. of t-e
State ofP—nfyl—a; the Hon. J. S. Eiq. J-
H. m.d. p.c. &rc. &;c. the Hon. J. ><■ Elq.
C—r G—l of the (late of P—nfvl —a, and the
Hon. A. JD. El'q. S—y of the aforefaid (late,
aflfep.ibled, by the fide of a good fire, in the
study of the Hon. J. S. E r q-—for the purpose
of holding a solemn consultation on their own
particular political situations, on the present'
(landing of the Hon. T. M. Esq. and on af
fairs of state. After (pending several honrs
in mimjtelv examining their own particular
conditions, and mutually adininiftering con
solation, and advising each other firmly to ad
here to their nohle leader, and persist in their
virtuous practices, they proceeded to the Prr»'-
Aent'sprefent zvsi future probable (landing. On
this point they perfectly agreed, " That as
many delicate consciences revolted agamfl his [\Jlem
of morality and politics, it was necelfary, to se
cure his future influence and consequently his
feat in the chair of state, bv the eftabliftiment
of a Bank peculiarly calculated to effect that
end."—On the affairs of state, it was their
opinion that every wheel would move glibly
and pleafantlv, in fine, entirely agreeably to their
defirrs, provided they could secure to their be
loved friend, the hor.orable, the virtuous Prejident,
the Piefidency of the Jlate during life •
Those important objects being examined
and adjusted, the next confederation which
arose, was, " By what means (hall we exhi
bit our true lete and Inxalti to our worthy leader,
the Hon. President of the State ?" (I had
like to hare been guilty of an unpardorable
negled, and forgotten to mention that this
figactous and nobly gmteful question originated
in the head of the Hon. A. jf. D.) This questi
on had scarce issued from the lips of the pro
poser, when loyalty, tike an electric spark.shot
through the breast of every member of the
club—Their eyes closed with the emotions
produced by their exceffivelv tender love,their
under jaws suddenly dropped, their months
gaped, and a m xture of admiration and won
der erected " every particular hair," like the
bristles 011 the back of the terrible hyena. A
silence of full five minutes reigned, when the
members with one accord opened their eyes,
raised their jaws and dropped their hairs, and
after much puffing, blowing, and foaming at
the lips, (the effect of inspiration) the Hon.
J. S. Esq. ("aid, " That as the mind of man,
when filled with any great and noble pafilon,
naturally breaks out into broken, abrupt,fhort
numbers, like unto a song, he (hould think,
and did believe it his duty, and the duty of
each member, to address the Hon. President
in song." (Here clapping of hands, damping
of feet, and roars of applause interrupted the
learned gentleman, who involuntarily clapped
his own hands, in admiration of his wildom
and eloquence.) And I, (continued he) pro
pn r e, that by this day one month, that is to
fay, 011 the.third day of February next enfu
in'r, we (hall meet here again, and each gen
tleman bring his address in poetry, to the Hon.
President, for the purposes of mutually bene
fitting, by critiques on each others verses,
and rendering them worthy of the fubjeft of
our panegyricks—Bravo ! bravo ! was the
cry, and an awful silence of ten and three
quarters minutes ensued—The Hon. J. N.
then lifting his chair nearer to the Hon. J. S.
Esq. knitting,his brows thoughtfully, flowjy
moving his head up and down and tideways,
in a see-saw manner, (like one of those loofe
headed beautiful china figures usually stuck
up as mantle-piece ornaments) and biting his
lips, spoke thus—" Dear fir, I beg leave to
utter a doubt which struck me during the
time of our fileuce. I have heard 'tis a hard
matter to write verses, and perhaps the time
which you have allotted us will be rather too
short tor the arrangement and statement of
our love, in verses." True, added the Hon.
A. T- D. for as Horace fays, " Pcrta najtilur
von fit." " Weil ! what of that! cried tl e
Hon. J. S. ftarirg rather difrefpeftfully in t!:e
fate nf the Hon. gentleman, well ! what of
that ? Surely he is on my fide ! man, he is on
my fide," (purting his fore finger to his note
and fmirkinf). "On your fide ! pray fir,
how on your fide ?" Why ! (replied the Hon.
gentleman) T will clearly "state it and prove it
—Poet a, is poet, firfl; fecondtv, that ntfestur,
I have heard is two words, and a Warred
friend hath thus explained it—nir/c, an abre
viation of the word natts, born ; itvr, to go ;
jit, fit. As veu know fir, that old language
being much compacted and condenfcd, be
came: nothing when literally ti anflattd, we
cp**i
Saturday, February 16, 1793.
297-
muil use great freedom witb it—Thur, a pro
perly liberal tranllntion of this poeta uafntur
nstJit, would be, after a man is born, as he
goes through life, he becomes ft to be a poet
—so |ir, you fee lam right, he is on my fide*
and as toe have travelled the greater part oj Qnr
journevy we are fit to be poets." 44 Good !
excellent." (cried the Doctor, clapping ths
learned gcfntleman on the Ihoulder). 44 Nd
fir, I deny it, (cxclaimed the Hon. A. J. D. in
a rag£) you have diftionored the poet —he fays
the poet is born, not made." — u Poh 1 poh ! dont
be in a paflion dear fir, said the Hon. J. N.
cannot you fee his meaning in that ? No man
is made, but born, so every man is born a po
et.''— 44 No fir, I cannot join with you there,
(spoke the Do<sV6r) the way I explain it is thus,
homoy man, being understood, homo nujettur poeta
jit*—man is born to be made a poet." — 44 Yon
are wrong, damn'd wrong," very uncivilly
and profanely exclaimed the Hon. A. J. D.—
44 Pray fir, (said the Hon. J. S. trembling, his,
piety being wounded) why are you so tvarm ?
I'll prove, I'll prove to you what I have af
firmed ; I'll do any thing to convince yon of
it—l'll put it to vote."—fnftantly a cry, 44 to
vote y to vote," filled the ftudv—Tt was ac
cordingly put to vote, * 4 Is the Hon. J. S>.
exposition of the text quoted from Horace,by
the Hon. A. J. D. a true expbfition V On
counting over the votes, they stood thus :
The Hon. J. S, AVe,
The Hon. f- N - Ayr, The Hon.A. J. D-—No
J H—M. D. &c. A ve.
So there beini> three in favor of, and but one
against the question, it was carried by a ma
jority of two in the affirmative. Notwith
standing this novel, but jair mode of deciding
the question, the Hon. A- J. D. could not pre
vent his unruly tongue, uttering cxprt/fions of
discontent, which txprefom, being overheard
bv the Hon. J. S. caused him to address the
Hon. gentleman as follows • " Sir, I perceive
your difcontejit, I am very willing JIM to
prove what I have alterted, by making an ex
ample of myfelf—Do you believe that I was
born tp be a poet ; I mean, to be a poet in
spile o/mifel/; for certainly I was born to be
a poet, as I am one—but you understand me,
do you beiieve I was a poet when I was born!
K >Jo'' fternlv replied the Hon. member ;
—if I prove myfolf a poet now,
you will believe that I was right in my tranl
lation!"—" Mod certainly, yes."—The Hon.
f. S. then turning round to each gentleman,
begged he would excuse him, for half an hour,
as he was going into hisgarret, to be retired,
and make some verses to prove hiwftlj a pcct,
and to fatisfy the Hon. gentleman of the
truth of his translation of Horace's text ; but,
gentlemen, he questioned smartly, nibbing
his hands, what shaH be the ? " Ac
counts, accounts," cried the Hon. J. N.
" well accounts," said the H'.n.poet,and went
up flairs.
In 27J minutes, he returned with fpark
l:ng eyes and upright (tep, and repeated the
following conplet—
l< Accauvt> are account, of thing! put douw uhtvfold,
«> In Uank books made, accounts oj things to hold."
The glaring beauties of this couplet, must
strike every reader. It needs no explana
tion, the concise and perfpicuons definition of
the word accounts, the sweetness of the verftf,
must impart infinite pleasure to every reader
from the Clerk of a Sheriffs Office, to the n
dorer of Homer and Virgil. The moment
it was read, dumb aftouiflime; t 'ci;on eve
ry hearer. At length the Hon. A. J.D. tliough
verv reluctantly, and in a very low voice,
confefTed his e'ror, and alkcd pardon for his
ftubbornels. The Doctor rifihg, took the left
hand -.f each gentleman, and putting them in
to each other, said, "be friends," they cast
their eves on the floor, smiled and fat down ;
(the Hon. J. S. tiling, said) " thus you fee,
men were made to be poets and I hope you
will no longer object to my propoial."—-You
may indeed, at the firft trial, expert to find
ihme labor absolutely necessary to the per
feflion of a poem, but, practice makes per
faft. The firft time that I tried my hand at
it was, on the following occasion : I had a
Cat, which I called Patty, in honor of a fwaet
female whom I courted—ThisCat was beau
tiful, and as I had named her Patty I loved
her tenderly, I kept her in my bed at nights
and often hugged her to my bol'om and thought
I was squeezing my other Fatty. Unfor
tunately Patry was in the ftorc cellar, hunt
ing mice, when my porters were hniftinir
fowe hogrtiends of Wett-India ; the ropes
broke, Sirs ! and a whole heavy hr.gfhcad fell
directly on Patty'steck ; I was instantly call
ed into the cellar, for the porters knew my
love for Patty ; and there, when they rolled
away the fatal hogftiead, was 'he poor crea
ture, almost cruflied into pi.ces, and with on
ly enough life to kick with one hind foot 5
I could not bear the fight of poor Tatty—tears
* The Doff, has committed an error in grammar,
but it muji be remembered th*t, vtr\ mam tears have
pajfed over his head finu he left fthool; and that
labile jet a boy, his memory was cf a peculiar nature*
and yrtjuned the jreqyeat apttt'ica'.on oj luck to his
fnJUiiors to give it tenacity.
[Whole No. 5^7.]
gofted from n>v eyes—l curled the pnrterg—
packed them off and came up into this study
to weep ; when my tear* had given vent to
my storm of grief—excufe these frelh tea»*—
I began to think how I ftiould honor her me
mory, and nextdav began these elegiac stan
zas ; handing them to the members, who or
dered the Hon. A. )■ D. to read them aloud,
which he did, as follows :
F LEG lAC STANZAS ON PATTY.
Oh ! dearest, tendered Paitv ! how thy loss
Afflicts my bosom, yea, I burn indeed !
I ne'er in lite before met such a cross,
Within my heart, how all the great veins bleed i
Ah! ah! deai Patty! oh ! ah ! oh! deai Cat!
Thou wert the p»ettirft thing I evei saw,
How cunningly I've seen thee na'ti a Rat;
From thee in truth, my tunning did I draw.
Ah \ never shall I fee thy like again,
Thou wert sri witty, vrt to meek a creature!
There is no Cat 'rhidtt nil the Caitiih train
Pofteis'd of half thv parts,or \ weet good-nature.
Ah ! who flv.ll I now get to flecp with me !
Is there no filler in thv tribe, dear Cat !
Who'd make fr» good a lirdleliow as thee ?
Np — 1 am fare tbelt's none like the- , dear Pat,
Ah ! mult I lie each winter alone ?
Ah! mufl I lie without my dear to hug ?
Whv finely I fhiill freeze, and turn to ?
My blood w.ili freeze like water in a niu£ !
For now my other Pat, thy counterpart,
Swears I (halt never lie with her at all,;
She fays she does not love me in hn heart ;
Ah ! what have I ro do but lie and bawl !
Curse on the Pollers ! curfc upon their rop<s.!
And curse upon ihe dev'lilh houfbtatMpp,
That did with vile intent cut off my h<>pf»l,
Ah! curfc them all—adieu! dear P<l!.»4ieu>
Such was the melting power of these lines,
ami the pathetic tone of the reader's voice,
that, by the time the rending was finiftied,
every foul preterit, even the author himfelt,
blinked his eves, fijivelled, and was iicceJfita
ted to blow his note. Indeed the watry foun
tains of the author were lo completely un
stopped that he was compelled to feck a pri
vate corner, to bimfelf; wl.cn lie
returned his Hon. friends were drying their
eyes and hoses, but the*fight of him, for a mo
ment excited frefh fn ivelingr. —Oh (cried
the Hon. author of the clegv, affetfting an in
sensibility uncongenial to his foul) gentlemen
pick up your spirits, why (hould >ou he To
touched by the bare reading of my vcife.~?
Had you beheld poor——here in spite of his
affeOed unfeelmgnefphis utterance was choak
ed*'—but 'tis plain he designed to have adcied
Patty. 44 Ah 1 sighed the Doctor, putting;
both his hands upon his belly—the Hon. A. J.
D. turning his head towards the Hon. author,
whom till now he could not fete,echoed, a An !
(and continued) I was really wrong in my as
sertion, that man could not be made a poet,
and I believe old Horace did not intend to
have written so daring a falfehood.— Fhe
opening of the elegy is unusually tender, but
the pathetic expression of the firft line in the
second stanza cxcc s every thing fit a ftmilar
nature iti Ovid or Tibullus—and the compli
ment in the last line of the lame, is inexfjrrjibly
delicate.' 1 —" But dont you think (said the
Hon. J. N.) that the line, 4k Ah ! must 1 lie
each winter's night alone !" and the one next
to it, 44 Ah ! must I lie without my dear to
to hip," is very moving? It ahe&sine mighti
ly indeed ; but the next two lines, '' why
surely I (hall freeze and turn to stone ! my
blood will freeze like water in a mug !' fti&e
me as being the most sublime of any m the
whole lamentation. 44 Why futely I (hull
freeze," lam chilled to my back bone, then
44 and turn to stone," at this my whole body
shivers ; I think I fee a stone statue. 1 hen
44 my blood v.'ill freeze like water in a mug.
That! that ! who can ft and that? It puts
me in mind of a cold, terribly cold and ticez
ing winter, when my water in mv membei
mug (no offence toanyofthe members I hope)
under my bed has froze solid ard to save my
blood from freezing alio, I have brought my
knees up to my month, thrown the blankets
over my head."—Here the Hon. gentleman
was startled and interrupted by a mournful
moaning found from the Doftpr— 4 ' Ah !" fairl
he, in a flow melancbcly tone, 44 Ah I what
have 1 to do but lie and bawl i" this, my dear
friend ! tLis is what melts my heart ; Die
thinks I. iVe you tolling to and fro, upon your
bed and like a poor dying man, groaning dis
mally."—The aatthor fimpenng approbation,
said, 44 I am not furpriied at the various
manners iu which you have been affeifted by
my elegy on Patty, liecaufe all men differ in
taste and sentiment ; but I have cxpe&cd
you particularly to notice the concluding stan
za ; Do you not perceive with what a noble
fpirn of indignation I labor *Hnw I curse the
porters, and the ropes, and the hogfher.d—tl is
my friends is the terribly fublime—T was al
ways (truck by its p.Krtical boldness » and at*
tend to the last line, 44 Ah ! curse them al!»
adieu! dear Pat ! ad\u !" how expreffivelv
abrupt ! how deeply pathetic ! Do not you
here fee my throat cl o iked, that I was una
ble to speak, that grief swelled my llomach,
that 1 could only fob at*! sigh j in iboi t, that IIn committee of the whole on the bill making
compensation to Alex. C. Hanfora.
Mr. Dayton in the chair.
An amendment was proposed but not agreed
to. The committee on motion rose and report
ed progress.
A message was received from the President
of the United States by his Secretary, Mr. Lear,
which informed the House that the P efident
had approved and signed an ast relative to claims
against the United States not barred by any ad
•if limitation.
A message from the Senate informed the house
thatjthey have considered the bill for repealing
part of a resolution of the late Congress refpe&«<
ing the inhabitants of Post Vincennes, and have
concurred therein. He also informed the house
that the Senate are now ready to meet the house
in the Senate chamber, for the purpose of open*
ing and counting the votes for President and
Vice-Prefcde»t of the United States.
The House accordingly repaired to the Senate
chamber.
The members were absent from the house one
Hour and an half. After they had returned the
Clerk read a statement of the votes as ascertain
ed by the Tellers of the two Houses, which are
as follow :
George Washington,
John Adams,
George Clinton,
Thomas Jefiferfon,
Aaron Burr,
The House again went into committee of the
whole on the bill to make compensation to Al
exander C. Hanfon. The 2d fe&ion, after feme
debate, was struck out. The bill v/as then re
ported as amended. The question on engrossing
the bill was put and negatived.
The Chairman announced a communication
. from the Secretary of the Treasury; some parts
I,of which, being of a confidential nature, the
■ galleries were cleared.
T'HURSD A Y,' Feb. 14.
Mr. Wiidfworth brought in a report on the
petitions of the French inhabitants of Galli
poljt —Read, and laid on the table.
The farae .gentleman presented the petition
; oflff Roger Enos, praying compensation for mi
* Mtary fcrviees, which was read, and laid on
, the table. .
Mr Heifter prefentod the petition of Mar
garet Sear, praying compenfatiort sos the ar
rearages due to her late hu{band for military
fervice;—this was referred to a feleft com-
mittee
The reading of confidential communica
tions bai;i& announced, the galleries were shut.
Whilst the galleries were ihut,
A meljiige from tie Senate, by Mr. Secre
tary Otis, informed the House, that the Presi
dent of the Uri;ed States had approved and
signed t>e act. refpefting fugitives from juf
tire, and per Tons c.caping from the service of
matters.
And, that the Senate dire fled him to lay
Jbefore the House, a bill entitled an ast sup
plementary to the ast, entitled, " An ast to
provide more for the-xrotieftrenr- nf
the duties imposed by law on goods, wares and
merchandize imported into the United States,
and on the tonnage of Ihips or vessels"—in
the Senate requeil the concurrence of
the House.
Another mefTage from the Senate informed
the House, that they had appointed Meflrs.
King, Izard, and Strong, a committee, to join
such committee as this house would appoint,
to acquaint the Prefidentof the United States
of his being elected so** another term of four
from the 4t"h clay of March next.—
This mefl'age was taken up in the Houje of
Representatives, and Meflrs. Smith (S. C.)
Madison, and Lawrance, were appointed.
FRIDAY, February 15.'
A bill fupplemcntary to the colle&ion iaw,
Teceived from the Senate, was twice read,
and on motion, referred to a feleft committee,
foniifting of Mr. Goodhue, Mr. W. Smith,and
Mr. Hindman.
A bill to refund to Jacob B? 1 ?, certain du
ties os pickled iifh, was read the third time,
and paCed.
A bill for placing on the pension lift foch
officers and soldiers of the militia, as shall be
wounded and disabled in the pub'ic fervicc,
was twice read, and committed to a com
mittee of the whole house.
A i eport on the petition of the Printers and
Booksellers was read ; this report is pgaiaft
repealing the duty on imported printing pa
per—but in favor of taking off ail imposition
on rags imported ; referred to a feleft com
mittee.
Mr. Goodhue laid a motion on the table to
extend the term for receiving fubferiptioos
to the loan of the United States, to the
day of
A report from the Secretary of War on the
petition of Jonathan Haikell and Abraham
Watson, was read—this report was favorable
to the petitioners; laid on the table.
The reading of communications which have
been before the House for several days, from
the Secretary of the Treasury, was resumed.
The reading being finiftied ; a motion was
made that these communications ihould be re
ferred to a feletfl committee, with inftrunions
to report to the House their opinion refpeft
ing such parts of them as it will be eligible to
publifli Another motion was made, that
those (hould be prirtcd without any such re
ference as are not expressly communicated as
conlidential— romedifcuffion took place, which
ended in an order for clearing the galleries.
The House being again opened,
A mefTage from the Senate, by Mr. Otis,
their Secretary, informed the House, that the
Senate have pafled the bill to promote the
progress c f ufeful arts, \vith amendments —
and that tiie bill in favor of H. E. Lutterloh,
having beer? considered by the Senate, they
b-d resolved that the said bill do not pass.
The amendments proposed by Hie Senate
to the ast for eftablifhiog the Judicial Courts
of the United States, were referred to R eotn-:
mittce of the whole Huule oji MonclaV next.
Mr. Giles, of the co.imiit.'ee appointed"to
enquire into.the causes of the failure of tlie
expedition tinder Ger. St. Clair, brought in a
report supplementary to that made at tlielaft
feffioji—This report:bcing read, it was or-'
dered that ,ioo copies of this, with the origi-;
nal report, be printed for the- ule of che:
House. !
On motion of Mr. W. Smith, the fubjeft was
referred to the consideration of the whole House,
on Wednesday next.
The committee to whom were referred for
consideration certain communications from the
Secretary of the Tieafury, reported a statement
of such as in rbeir opinion it was proper fhouldl
be published—the r(?f>ort was accepted by the
House.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill, to
promote the progress of ufeful arts, were taken
into consideration, and agreed to.
Mr. W.Smith,of the joint committee appoint
ed to wait on the Prefidcnt to inform him. of bis
elr&ion, reported that the committee had per
formed that service.
A motion was laid on the table, that a com
mittee be appointed to bring in a bill for fixing
the time of the next annual meeting of Congress.
Mr. Giles laid a motion on the {able to the
followiug effect—That the CominVflioners for
purchasing the public debt be direded to la-y-be
fore this House a llatemcnt of their proceedings
Jrom the commencement of that institution to
the prcfent time—fpecifying the sums carried to
the credit of that actount, and the sources from
whence ihey have been drawn—and the amount
of monies now on hand applicable to the pur
chale of the public debt.
77
S°
4
I
Adjourned till to-morrow,
Philadelphia, Feb. 16.
The celebrated Mr. Erlkine was Ojp'bnlel)
for Mr.'Paine on his late triaT in
he made a fpeeeh of threfc hours and" twenty
minutes long-—when the trial was over, "and
Mr. Krikine had got into his carriage, ibirie
perfoiis took the horses off, and dragged it' to
his house in Seijeants Inn.
Bowles, the Cherokee Chief, so called, who
had been condemned to fuffer death in Cadiz,
has been liberated.
Further accounts of the taking of Frankfort
fay, that it was treasonably delivered up to
the enemy ; of the French were attacked
by the citizens at the fame time the Prullians
aflaiied the city without, with long knives,
furnilhed it is said to 10,000 of the citizens
by the Landgrave of Hefle Calfel. The ma-[
giftrates denied the charge. Gen. Cnftine, in
111 his letter to the Convention fays, the Prtif
fians loft in this aifa\ilt 4,ooo—while that of
the French (13,000 of the garrison excepted)
does not evceed the above mentioned.
The King of France went to the Conven
tion in a carriage drawn by two hories only,
the glalTes of which were down. A solemn
silence prevailed during his whole pafl'aje
from the Temple to the Convention, which
took up nearly the space of ail hour :—fogreat
was the number of aimed men, that the
populace collected on the occasion could
scarcely be supposed to fee the proceflion.
On the 4th of Dec. the people of Geneva,
without waiting for the re Ail t of the sovereign
council, aflembled in arms, took possession of
the park of artillery,and of the principal posts;
when the grand council saw this movement,
they gave their fanttion to a law presented by
the people, which assure* to them a Hbdrty as
absolute and extensive as that of the French
nation
An account of the proceedings of the Irifti
Catholic Convention, fays, they adhere literal
ly to the demand they made last year, viz.
That the eieftive franchifes Ihduld be restor
ed to Roman Catholics renting a farm of 2DI.
a yea; or upwards. They put their claim of
right into the form of a petition to the com
mon Sovereign, and appointed Sir Thomas
French, Bart. Mr. Keough, and three other
gentlemen, to be a deputation to go to Eng
land, and pre fen t it to his Majesty.
Meeting-, for the purpose of associating for
the ptefervation of the Conflitution are be
coming general all over England.
Tronchet and Malefherbe. l ;, two celebrated
Lawyers, are chosen by Louis XVI. as bis
Couofel; they have accepted of the appoint,
went.
General Cuftrne lias received a challenge
from a lord of the bedchamber belonging to
the Prince of Heife-Caflel ; to which the Ge
neral has returned for answer, that being de
termined to fight no other duels than with
cannon ball, if the challenger would fix the
day, hour, and place, he (hall be gjad to meet
him.
The birth day of Prince Frederick of Den
mark, was celebrated at Bergeu, in Norway,
in a manner thus acceptable to humanity.
The society for the promotion of nfeful in
dustry being afleinbled in their hall, prizes
wee given to all those who bad distinguished
themfelve? during the preceding year in agri
culture, filhing, and other laborious occupa-
tions.
The present profpeft of America cannot
fail to strike the eye of the raoft remote %b
---ferver—.her commerce extending ; her ma
nufactures rapidly encrepfing \ arts and sci
ences daily improving; her agriculture flou
rifhing; her debts decreafmg; and her friends
augmenting—add to the e, plenty within her
walls, and fearlefs of menaces from without—
It would puzzle its wortl enemies, were they
to twirl the globe around a thousand times,
and examine it with the eyes of Argus, to find
such another favored spot—yet, for all this,
according to tl.e doftriwe of some modern re
formers, we nmft have a change of men and
ineafures.—"Vain his attempts who drives
to please you all." - ; Gaz.
298
At twelve o'clock on Wednesday last, the
Members of the Houl'c of Reprelentatives of
the United States repaired to tfie Senate
Chamber. The Members of tlie Senate wee
previously aflembled. Both Houses being in
Convention, the Prefidertt of the pur
suant to the Conftitation of the United States,
opened and read the Certificates received by
ekprefs from the Executives of the feveraJ
»states, which contained the lifts of the Votes
given by the Electors of the States refpe<ftive
"ly,'for n President and Vice-Pre fide nt of the
United States, beginning with New-Hamp
- fliirew
Tke reading of these being finilhed, the
Lifts were delivered to the Tellers, viz. Mr.
King, on the part of the Senate, and Mr.
Law ranee and Mr. W. Smith on the part of
the'Roufe—
The Tellers counted the Votes, and deli
vered a statement of the fame to the Presi
dent of the Senate, which he read as follows :
New Hampshire -
Maffachufctts -
Rhode liland
Vermont
Conneilicut -
New-York - -
New Jersey
Pennsylvania - -
Delaware -
Maryland - •<.' -
Virginia ....
Kentucfcey - - -
North Carolina - -
South Carolina - - -
Georgia
The President of the Senate then declared
George Washington Prefidentof the United
States, by a unanimous vote, for four years,
commencing the 4tli of March next; and
John Adams Vice-President of the United
States, by a majority of votes, for the fame
period. The House then retired.
In SENATE, Feb. 4, 1793.
On motion to agree to the following—
to wit:
Resolved, That it be a {landing rule, that
the doors of the Senate Chamber reniain open
wbilft the Senate lhall be fitting in a legisla
tive and judicative capacity, except on such
occafjons as in their judgment may require
fecrecv; and that this rule ftiall commence
and ,be in force on the firft day of the next
feifion of Congress.
It pafled in the negative—aves 10, noes 18.
The ayes and noes being required by one
fifth of th£ Senators prefent—tliole who voted
in the affirmative, are,
MefTrs. Brown, Butler,
Burr, Edwards,
Gunn, Monroe,
Hawkins, Potts, and
King, Taylor.
Thole who voted in the negative, are,
MefTrs. Baffett, Langdon,
Bradley, Morris,
Cabot, Read,
Dickinfon, Robinson,
Ellfwortb, Rutherfurd,
Foster, Sherman,
Henry, Stanton,
Johnfton, Strong, and
Izard, Wingate.
From the Amu ic.Kti Daily AovertTsex
MR. DUN LAP,
IT occurred to roe this morning, on reading
your paper, as worthy of remark, that the
Senators, whose states have voted against Mr.
Adams as Vice President, have voted against
the doors of the Senate being fliut, and vice
vtrju) as the following lift will shew :
Against Mr. Adams., and. For Mr. Adams, and Jor
againjl the doors being the doors being Jhut.
Jhut. New-Hamplhire
New-York. MalTachufetts
Virginia Rhode-Island
Kentucky Conne<sticut
North-Carolina Vermont
Georgia New Jersey
Pennsylvania
Delaware
Divided—Maryland and South-Carolina.
February 13. B.
COMMUNICATIONS.
The Crisis, a fpeculalion in the Boston Chro
nicle, republished »n the National Gazette, con
demns the administration of America for mak
ing foreign loans in Holland and Flanders —
Among other equally sensible and profound ob
j< &ions, the author is ast aid ol our bring di awn
by foreign loans info foreign connexions.
A eorreipondent asks, whether the author (Cup.
posing him a Boftoniau) will i«tfte a piece of the
foaftcd Ox, at the BoftoijCtvic Feast.— If Dutch
loanr (lick in his throat, Frcoch politics will
certainly clioak him.
The address of a certain set of feriblers, endea
voring to impress their eajlern brethren with a belief
that ev -ry imputation of a change of fentxment y and
deviation from republican principles is levelled at tie
body of the people in tUfe States, is an i* fiance of
refinement umtthy of those who have been long noted
for their politicalartificcf. It has not however, it is
to be hoped, efcapedthe notice of that difcernmg peo
ple that the imputation has nit been pointed at then y
but at some particular charaders Jrum among them,
uho t it ij conceived. have in many mjlances departed
widely Jrom the sense oj their country men. Tit my
c
£ c •
f. o C t,
M£Z o -
S So "r 3
1 < 3 •s *
* nO?" 1
O H
7 7
16 16
4 4
3 3
9 9
12 12
7 7
15 14 I
3 3
8 8
21 21
4 4
12 12
-76 I
4 4
132 77 50 41
the for this finejfe Is obmotis ; jar whi'fifuck charac
ters can impress the particulai communities to which
they belong, with a belief that the charge rt pointed
equally at them, tkf latter are compelled to make com*
man cavfe, and, unite with theJormer in mutual de*
fence. .1 hus all enquiry on the part of the people
would be at en end, and they be led by that means
to promote the views of their deceivers.
#J the ejf*Ms oj this political jugglin+t we hixe
lately seen J'orr.t curious fpefimens, among which art
to be numbered Jeter at grave occasional pieces in vin
dication of the, people oj MajjaJmJttts and kpn*ft(!i*
cut, againjl the charge of apojtacy Jrcm ,'/r princi
ples of republican government; in which it is de
clared in the mo/l fo'em.i manner, that iiu jurmet * of
thofeflates are not defirou\ oj J'ubverting theprefrnt
conjlitution, and cjlablifhing a monarchy—that /' jy
are averse to titles or hereditary dijtinchvns, or
other extraordinary aggrandizement oj individuals.
. That the citizens, of the cajtern Jiutts are in gene
ral republican, no one will quejlion Tlex have
given too many proofs of that important.truths for a
doubt now to exist on that point in an\ part of the
Union. Whilfl, however % the fentwents oj a few
particular charaflen were csnfdered as an indication
of those of the slates from whence they came, some
painful apprehenjions begtn to be entertained that ine
public mind had undergone a flrange tranfuion in
that quarter. Rht the fervent joy lately dr[played
throughout those slates, upon the Juccefs oj the frenck
arms in thecaufe of liberty and equality, has dispelled
every doubt on that head, and revived a general con-
Jidence in the purity of their principles.
The following excellent paragraphs are from the Mail.
The Profperjty of the United States, is, and
ought to l>e a fubjt-cl of grateful meditation to
every patriotic American. In private life, one
of the best preservatives against the turbulence of
difccntent, is an habitual reflection on the daily
comforts a man enjoy*—these, when incorpo
rated as It were with our being, will lose a great
part of their importance, unlets the mind, either
fiom a religious or a philosophical turn of tho't,
be frequently called to their contemplation.
Nations, Jike individuals, may be contiafted
in their chara6fcers and ei• cumftances : and in
forming an climate €>! all earthly good, we are
forced. fiom our ignorance of absolute perfec
tion, 10 form a judgment of the happiness of er»
ther bj comparison. Our fituatton in thisiree
and enlightened republic is, under tbii view of
the fubjeft, indeed prosperous and happy.
The greatest part of Euiope is in a state of tu
mult and uproar. Where war does not yet ab
solutely rage, the vices and the fad fpe&arle of
delpotic governments will probably soon pro
duce disquietude and revolt.—This country on
the contrary, at this moment poflefles, and I
hope enjo)S, the model of all reprefentaiive free
republics—a state of agriculture, progrefiiveand
luxuriantly produ&ive—arts and manuta&ures
advancing—morals and manners as yet pure,
and the completed freedom in religion. No
country on earth would bear tins description
except the United States—may they dr.ftrve these
blcflings, and rationally enjoy them.
It has been jufily remarked, that the tar.es
of no country on earth carry with them Juch
a consolation as attends those of the United
States. The debt, the interest of which they
arc principally designed todlfcharge, wrs glo
riowflv incurred—lt was the price of freedom
—and formed a part of the estimate of our
noble Independence. Taxes in Europe, on the
contrary, are raised to feed an ignoble penfion
lift; to pay the debts of miferabie ambition ;
or, to gorge the harpies of royalty, and of
courts. But here, the moral quality alone of
government leads them to levy taxes. Justice
demands a discharge of just debts—and he who
pays a penny in this free and prof'perouscoun
try, accompanies the due with the patriotic
idea, that what I now pay is for what I, as a
free man, enjoy—it is just.
That occasional calls of the attention of a
people to pious exercises are proper, seems to
have been the usage and the principle of all
nations—at least of such as were civil zed—
In private life, a well regulated mind enjoy*
many of its sweetest moments in a silent but
deep sense of the bleflings it may poflefs from
a j nfl: Providence. If there be a duty in the
individual, enforcing this rational species cit
devotion, it moil be a duty on a more enlarg
ed scale, in a Nation, to do the fame. But
in a country as free as our's is, there is no
particular denomination of devotion termed
National. Yet the duty is surely equally
incumbent on all. The diversity of opinions
relates chiefly to modes ojJailh. All good men
profefs and actually fee] a firm belief in the
dispensations of an over-ruling Providence,
All may in their own way, manifeft a rational
and sublime gratitude to Heaven, for national
good. Theft? reflections are forcibly urge 4
on the mind by all the occurrences which hove
lately taken place in Europe, anjJ by the con
trast to them which the bappinefs of United
America enjoys.
Every civic feaft ought to be a scene in
which Americans Ihould breathe the spirit of
gratitude for the mighty blefiings they poflefs.
Their tumults over; their Freedom fecyred;
their prosperity enlarging, and their country
happy, as the lot of human nature admits-—
My countrymen, true patriotism will teach
us to feel those good things, as becomes ra
tional btings, and fill us with gratitude to
Heaven.
The Refolntion for establishing anew Bank
was carried in committee of the whole of
the House ef Representatives of this state yes
terday—ayes 43, noes 21.
C 5" A column of " Lycchcos" was prepared
Jor this day's Gazette—it /hall appear in our next.
Also, the piece Jigned "A Faimeu," J ron a daily
paper.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Ctr.ts, 19/
3 per Cents, 11J
Deferred, 11J1O '
Fwll fharei Bank O. 5. tg per ceot.prea
Bjnk North Americt, ijWuft have dropped down lt Ah ! Ye*, Ah !
Yes!" cried the Hon. Members, staring at
each other with faces of wonder. w But, ex
claimed the Hon. A. J. D. certainly fir, you
did not irrite all thin poem in one day ? 44 One
day! replied the astonished author, one day
Whv, fir, how you degrade my poem j
Can you be fermus in your cjueftion \ N T o, fir,
—I locked myfelf 111 this study i'or 19 days
and nights—l lived during the who'e time
foleiy on dry bread andJi'ong cvjfte, which you
know Doflar is a powerful stimulant to the
imagination—The firft day I made one stanza,
and so greatly was I by it", pathos,
that I gained not one wink of ileep that night
—The next morning being wearied, I fell in
to flam'iers} during which 1 saw the ghost of
Patty—-immediately on beholding her, I broke
out into that foiritted addreft which begins
the second stanza— 1 ' Ah ! ah ' dear patty !
Oh ! ah ! oh \ dear Cat !"—Whert I awoke
at four in the afternoon, I put down the line,
left I (hould forget it—then getting my cot'
fee down and walking twice across my room,
I was capable of purftrfng my labor, and by
next day evening finifhed the second stanza.
In twelve days I finilhed the other four stan
zas, and the sixteenth day I began to read
over my work, in order to make corrections'
in grammar and spelling—l came to the line
" Ah ! what have I to do but lie and !"
I saw something wanting, and being then un
der the influence of ftroi-g coffee, and of the
poem as I had read it eolle&ivcly, I fat down,
and before night completed the poem, by that
matter-piece of composition the concluding
stanza. The three remaining days I spent in
corrections and copying—For the fpeUings I
always followed Entick's pocket dictionary.
Thus, my honorable and worthy friends, you
fee what labor can effect ; and as I have done
this poem in so short time, you ought not to
despair of completing your panegyrical poems
in the space of one month But before I con
clude, gentlemen, let me take the liberty to
observe to you, that the best and easiest me
thod I have found to make verfew, is firft by
putting down the words which rhyme to each'
other, which you can procure from that valu
able book called the Rhyming Dictionary.
This is the mode I follow and approve—and
indeed I believe the great Mr. Pope followed
this plan also, for in his immortal poem enti
tied the " Wife of Bath," the only poem of
his that I have read, I find he has almost eve
ry rhyme from that dictionary." Here the
honorable gentlemen bowed to the learned
author, and the Hon. A. J. D. moved that the
thanks of the company be presented to him
for his information conveyed; which motion
being carried, they were accordingly present
ed by the Hon. mover. It was now i 2 at
midnight, and the honorable gentlemen mutu
ally pledging themselves to appear at the fame
place on the 3d* day of February, with their
poetical addrelTes to their worthy leader the
virtuous P •t of the S—e of P — -a, they
retired to their refpedVive habitations.
+ Thro' '.he Jane channel that I received those
Jketches, I have obtained the proceedings of the meet.
ing held agretMy to this rrfnlution, on the 3d 0/ Fe.
irutiry, and shall fend them to you in a few days.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fe N NO,
I COULD not help smiling at a late remark on
the Speeches and Refolutionsof certain mem
bers of the House of Representatives of the U. S.
refpe&ing some of the Officers of Government,
viz. " Satan hath desired to fiftyou as wheat." —
1 know the transparent and firm integrity of enc
of thoje officers of mod refpe&able chara£ter : but
tho' I had no (hadow of doubt of his integrity,
or fear of his faith in an omniscient overruling
Providence, failing; yet I could not be certain
of his faith in the intelligence, penetration and
candor of a very great majority of the citizens of
these United States, and a continuance thereof,
"till I considered the further means of ufefql
knowledge and discernment of their own true
interests, and of his real merits and capacity,
which would be afforded in consequence of the
reccnt investigations and fillings of his conduct
since his appointment to that very weighty of
fice— I then took comfort, and doubted not,
that even his faith in this refpefl would not fail
him ;—and upon reading his Letter, or Report,
of the 4th inft. I am exceedingly pleased to fee
his foul rife superior to those premature and
groundle-fs insinuations, in a certain precipitate
and rema»kable publication. And though I
perceive he is not insensible to what might have
been the motive to those erroneous and uncandrd
insinuations, yet his answer puts me in mind of
the Angel whvn contending with Satan about
the body of Moses—He brought not a railing
accusation against him (as in justice he might)
but only said, " The Lord rebuke thee, Satan"
—to which I fay, Amen.
I rannot help ferling hurt when I fee inno
cence and remarkably superior rnen't attackrd by
anv son of Adam or of Eve—be he whom he
will—as I can with conscious truth declare my
felf a lover of mankind—and in particular, of
the peace, credit, profprrity and honor of these
highly favored United States—
And am, Sir.
Your friend and fuNfrriber,
PHILANTNROPOS.
Norfolk, January 26.
Extratt-tf a letter from a gentleman in Cape-Fran
cois, td his friend in this towri, dated Dec. 28.
" We have for sometime been under fearful
appre.henfions that the opinions of the metropo-i
lis would prove fatal to the interest of the coun
try. We are now happy to inform you, that
the National Convention have sent 45,000,000
livres to the relief of this colony—Ninety ihou
fy»d dollars arriyed lad evening in a vessel from
Hourdcaux, and 130,000 «ry>re are now entering
our pori. We are farther aflured, that 20,000
troops have lately embarked from France, who
will establish good order in Martinique & Gua
daloupe. This oughc to animate our courage
and forces, and infpire-ns with a hope that a
general tranquillity will soon be established in
thii unhappy country."
Foreign Affairs.
F U L DA, November 9.
PRIVATE letters fromHanau mention, that
they expe& every day large reinforce men t*
from Austria and other powers.■ Eight days
ago, three Hanoverian regiments arrived alrea
dy at Marburg, where are like wife some Hef
fan dragoons, and ten thousand men more are
ready to march at a moment's warning to the
alii (lance of the Prince of Hefle Caffel.
The regiment of Carabineers of HefTe Caffel
is marching towards Hanau. Three thousand
three hundred Auftrians, who had with them
great quantities of cannon and ammunition,
were obliged to halt at Afkaffenburg, on ac
count of the French being in Franckford. Jw
Franconia the quarters were bespoke for the?
Austrian troops, and they are procuring provi
sions for the men andhorfcs.
It is said for certain, that the Ele&or of Sax
ony is going to march his contingent of fixthou
fand men towards Mentz, and that lix thousand
more are in readiness in cafe of necessity.
LIMBURG (on theLahn) Nov. 9
The Pruflian van-guard, which was quarter
ed here, and amounted to about thirteen hun
dred men, was attacked this day by the French;
these advanced suddenly from Weilburg, with
about two thousand five hundred men. The
engagement was very severe, and lasted from
one till four o'clock. But this timt the supe
rior numbers had the advantage, the Pruflians
were obliged to retreat by the Lah Bridge,
with a loss of two hundred men killed and
wounded. The French then took poffefiion of
our city. They had in the engagement five
cannons served with canister (hot, which gave
them a great superiority, the Pruflians had only
two cannon with them.
The French immediately took pofleflion of
the EleiSloral Caflle and Offices. They demand
ed two thousand five hundred guilders as z con
tribution from the fame, but did no kind of in
jury to any of the citizens.
COBLENTZ, November ir
As soon as the news of the engagement at
Limburg arrived here, the Duke of Brunfwick
marched thither with a considerable body of
troops. The Kmg departed likewise with a (mall
retinue.
P.S. This inflant we received the news, that
the Duke of Brunfwick has drove the French
out of Limburg again. The Pruflian general
Prince Hohenlohe, who commands the rear
guard of that army, covers the city of Treves,
where there it yet a considerable Pruflian maga
zine. Our Elector (of Treves) is gone to Augs
burg, and the Ele&or of Mentz to Vienna.
It is reported that an engagement took place
between the Heflians and the French, wherein
the firft had the advantage. Several Pruflian re
giments pal Ted thro' this city to-day for Lim
burg on the Lahn, where general Kalkreuth;
stands now, who isready to march against Frank-'
fort.
Nov. 12. The king of Pruflia is still with the
army, and the duke of Brunfwick, it is nowaf
ferted, will keep the command in chief. They
have built a bridge across the Rhine in order to
accelerate the march of the troops —A great
many wounded have been brought in here, a
mongst the reft a prifonerof ft ate, whose name
is not known A strong corps ofPruflian canno
neers is marched into our fortrefs. The Carthu-;
fians have left their conventand have taken lodg
ings in town. Their,convent is full of Prussians,<
and several batteries are to be ere&ed there. Ge
neral Ihlow has died here. The French troops
near Weilburg are said to amount to 8000 men.
The army of general Kellerman, which some
reckon at 40,000 men, is already near Mertzig
and threatens Treves. The garrison in Mentz
must be very strong, as every day frefh troops
are marching there ; those that have not room
in the city, entrench themselves under the can
tion of the fortrefs. General Cuftine ilegleils
nothing to secure himfelf; it is even said that he
is about condu&ing the river Mayn so as to
strengthen and secure his fortifications. It is said,
that te ? more regiments are to come from Bran
denburg. Ye Herd ay an express brought the ac
count, that the French had destroyed the Prus
sian and Imperial magazines at Remich and Gre
venmachern.
REGENSBURG, November 9.
The consideration of the third article of the
Imperial decree of the ift of September, concern
ing the fafety and the war establishment of the
empjre, which had been made the order of the
day for the sth instant, has been postponed
quite unexpc&edly a second time. Some fay
that the ele<storate courts had altered their in
ftruclions. So much may be depended upon,
that the day preceding that appointed for the
said deliberations, a number of expresses arrived
at the hotels of some of the ele&oral ambafladors.
A great number of French emigrants arrived
here within those few days, but our magistracy
hath intimated them, that they must quit the
city before Sunday next* Orders have been like
wise given at the gates, that no more French
men {hall be admitted into the city without hav
ing previously obtained a special permiflion for
that purpose.
Much is talked here of a great prisoner of
state, who was with the combined armies in
France, and as it is said, had been gui ty of trea
chery when they were about surrounding Gen.
Dumourier.
F R A N K F O RT, November 13.
The king of Pruflia is said to be near Lim
burg on the Lahn with 16,000 men, and the
French have withdrawn from that quarter. On
the 9th the French marched 5000 men from Hu
ningen into the neighbourhood of Speyer, and
on the 13th, they we e to be followed bv 7000
more.
299
B A. N A U, November 13
. Yetlerday some more French troop?, with
,qannon and ammunition-waggons, marched
Frankfort; but another large detachment
marched from there iikewife with cannon to
wards Friedberg. According to the account
the Wetzlar Gazette ha? given of the en
gagement near Weylburg, between the French
and Hessian troops —the Hessians have taken two
cannon and a number of horses ready saddled,
.and the French had carried off seven waggons
with wounded. In the Hefiian dominions every
body is taking up arms; all the corps-de-refervd
. are complete, and fevcral thousand Hanoverian
troops have marched into Lichtenau and Witz-
enhaufen,
BRUSSELS, November 15
On the 13th instant, a severe engagement
took place between the roar guard of the Austri
an army and the French, which reachcd ourfu
burbs of Anderlech. They fired from our walls
till night, when the Auitrian troops marched
off and some of the French officers came into
town with torches. The next day General Du
mourier followed with his van-guard, confiding
of about Sooo men, and another column palled
by this city. The cities of Ghent, Cortryck,
Dornick, &c. have been taken pofTeflion of by
the French in the name of the committee of re
volution of the Belgians and Liegois.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENT JT IF ES.
In our Paper of 6th iiijlant, <we gave
the fuhjlance of Mr. Murray's rrmaris
On the bill to amend the a& to promote the
pragrefs of the ufeful arts, —the following
is a more particular fhetch of his olferva
tions on that oceafion.
MR. MURRAY said, he intended to move
to finite out dirritnroj tbr mint, for the pur
pose of inserting, the judge of the diftriel where
in the applicant might reside. As he thought
the bill of great consequence as it related to the
tifeful and ornamental arts, he would trouble the
committee with his reasons. He thought it was
of con equence, that while the law holds out an
invitation to genius, the mode of gratifying the
fair fehoneft inventor ftiould beaseafyas possible.
The director of the mint mull reside at the feat
of government; and if he alone, or any other
person were exclufivcly empowered to issue pa
tents, the benefits of invention would be bnt ]
very partially enjoyed by the citizens who reside
at a diftanca from the feat of government. The
law ought to facilitate the granting of patents,
and as the right of exclusive enjoyment, at least
. for a limited term, was inherent in all equally
in every part of the nation, so all ftiould as far
as possible have equal facility in making their
pretensions known and eff.ftual. A country in
Europe, Great Britain, had afforded, it was
true, much experience on thefubjeiS; but regu
lations adopted there, would not exactly com
port in all refpe&s either with the fitiiation of
this country nor with the rights of the citizen
here. The minds of some members had taken a
wrong diredlion, he conceived, from the view
in which they had taken up the fnbje<£t under its
analogy with the docftrine of patents in England.
There is this ftreng feature which diftinguiflies
that do<Strine in that country from the princi
ples on which we mult fettle it in this. These
patents are derived from the grace of the mo
narch, and the exclusive enjoyment of the profits
of a difcoveryis notfo much a right inherent, as
it is a privilege bellowed, and an emanation of
prerogative. Here on the contrary th» citizen
has a right in the inventions th-y may make,
and considers the law but as the mode by which
he is to enjoy their fruits. England is one entire
kingdom. Its court is the feene where its pre
rogative diffufes its bounties, and being stationa
ry at London, the business can be well managed
in afingle spot. Here on the contrary, there are
fifteen Hates sovereign as to many purposes, and
forming within themselves tenters of attraction
for the ingenious and aspiring. London in that
country, not only attra&s as the mart of genius
arid of "all riiat contributes to ease or gain, but
by its immense combination of things aids inven
tion and draws the genius into a£tion which it
may have attracted—But we are differently cir
oumftanced both as to local situation, and as to
the thing as it regards the principle on which it
is to/be obtained. The diilance from the ex
tremes of the union, or from its center to its ex
tremes, is very g eat. If the power were lodg
ed with the diftricSt judges, the citizen of inge
nuity would have an opportunity of taking a pa
tent certiinly with more safe, than if you oblige
him to take a journey of perhaps fix or eight
hundred miles. The facility of enjoyment would
prove an incentive to invention. Difficulty and
diflance would discourage it, andwould frequent
ly overpower the wifli to obtain a patent for a
discovery, the profits of which would often be
doubtful. One, and but one objetflion had been
made to this alteration—that if the district judg
es hava the power, patents may issue in differ
ent places for the fame discovery. This would
be an evil,but is not without a remedy. Patents
are matters of record Let it be the duty of the
judge, immediately after the granting of a pa
► tern, to transmit a copy of the application with
all the necessary description of the article, to the
supreme court, from which it may be easily dif
femmated to every district court, and through
the United States. An inventor desirous of ob
taining a patent, would of courfc examine the
patent records, to fee whether he had been anti
cipated. 1 he grant of a patent does not destroy
a,claim or right founded in priority. Here he
would observe, that if the inconvenience were
not entirely removed by this measure which he
pi opofed, neither was the inconvenience of clalh
mg claims as to originality and priority of dis
covery removed by any provision of the bill as
It ftspj,, sor ewM hmu iitjmcay p .y, v ,.
devifc a complete mode in which it couU b.,
viated. If a man who i, rea! l y tht , k
chufes to try his title a, t» t h c originality of*'
invention, even after a patent in aivrn > 7
he will make ar.d vend the article, and tCfoS
title will be tried before a junr in „„ J 1
brought igainft him by ,h c pi tmtci . ,)*"•»
mcalure he propofsd were not deemed a W
eqt guard, he would suggest the proprietor 0 f ]
further cautton-Ut.thc application be JLi*
ed and remain 111 the office, at in Fnil-,-
does, he believed, two months in the fh cc 'J
the attorney-general, that a cavui n-..- v be en
tered by any man who mig ht claim or d.f™,'
the applicant s title. p
He believed that the bill, either a* it tend 1
to foftec the genius of men, or wa< ,
with refpe£l to distant emolument and .
chara&er, was extremely important. It was -j*
mod immediately one of thofc laws that emW*
ed national views and national eitwenfhiu anj
looked to an obje& of advantage which n'.lhinz
but a national government could secure. With
out the aid of a general government, the »nii u j
of the Americans could, not reap its fruits"; ncr
had the state governments given a fair occ'afiw,
for the display of the ingenuity which he believ
ed existed in the country. As to this great ob
je&, which requires national citiz.-nftiip, the
state laws were impotent. He thought that it
was of consequence that no J„, wr . v^r
small or irrelative it might at firft appear, should
be loft ; and where he saw the idea of a patent
law ridiculed by some, and unattended by others
he believed they were accustomed to fahe things
in their appearances, and had not exerted their
reflexion. A little reflection would teach us
that whAtever is great and aftonilhing in the
work* of art was humble in its origin, had been
oppoftrf by ignorance or cramped by poverty,
and had become important but by gradual ivcu
mulation and a very flow progrelfion ; and that
the wisdom of government should b« exerted in
forming a repository, where nothing that mi-fht
eventually be of service should be faffered to pe
rilh. He therefore wilhed to fee such a Is v as
would not only secure what micdit be off -cd
near the feat of government, but invit-and
draw forth the ufeful invention of those who
lived at a distance. That it Ihottld present an r:-
fy method of granting it prote&ion, he then
fore moved, that the judge of the diftri& where
in the applicant may refida, Ihouldbe fubfliluc •
edfor Director of the Mint.
TUESDAY February 11
A bill pursuant to the petition of Robert Eden
for exempting from duty live flock imported :n
to the United States, for the purpose of improv
ing the breed of particular species of ufeful ani
mals; was reported, read twice, and committed.
The petition of GifTard Dally wa taken up,
and a resolution proposed pursuant to the prayer
thereof—Laid on the table.
\ petition of Lewis Garanger was read, pray
ing an adjuflment and payment of interest pn
certificates received by him and his brothers;
and that they may be considered as foreign offi
cers of similar rank—Referred to the Secretary
of the Treasury.
A bill for the relief of Elijah Roftwick was
taken lip in committee of the whole, Mf>Muh
lenberg in the chair, amended, reported, and or- .
dered by the House to be engrofled.
A petition of Lewis Pintard, of the state of
New-York, was prefentcd by Mr. Lawrance,
praying to be exempted from the duties on a
quantity of wine loft by isakage—Referred to a
feleA committee,
A message from the Senate by Mr. Otis, in
formed the House that they have agreed to the
report of the joint comfnittee, refpe&ing th\j
mode of opening counting the votes for Prefl
dent and Vice-President of the United States.
fn committee of the whole on the plan report
ed by the Secretary of the Treasury for the re
duction of the public debt—Mr. Muhlenberg
}he chair.
The rcfolutions offered yeflerdaybv Mr.Fit?-
simons were difcufled. These refutations are in
conformity with the Secretary's report.
After further debate, the committee, without
coming to any vote, rose and reported jfrogreft,
and had leave t® fit again. Adjournedj.
WEDNESDAY, February i^.
A bill for the relief of F.lijxh Boftwick wa»
read the third time and passed.
The resolution,. laid on the table yesterday tiy
Mr. W. Smith, in conference of a petition of
Gifford Dally, authoring the Clerk todifcharge
the necessary expence for L b »r, incurred dur
ing the present feflion, out of the money appro
priated by law for the contingent expences of
the House, under the dire<Stion of the Speaker
was taken up and agreed to.
Mr. Parker presented the petition of Thomas
Mathews, which was read, and on motion of
that gentleman, referred to the Secretary of the
Treasury.
Mr. Sumpter called the attention of the house
to ail a& pafled the lall felfion, providing i(*
the settlement of claims not barred by the limi
tation ; heretofore established; recurring to parti
cular fe<slions of that a<sl, he {hewed that the
provisions therein contained fubje<sl the claim
ants to so much expence and .delay in, getting
their claims adjuftcd and fettled as amounts to
precluding them from obtaining that justice t e
a& appears to be designed to afford. Mr. Sump
ter concluded his remarks by moving that a com
mittee be appointed to bring in a f ill for re
pealing the second fe&ion »f the a#, an<t t»
provide adequate regulations in the cale—
on the table
The bill to refund to Jacob Bell certain ti
tles on pickled fifli, was taken up tn committee
of the whole, Mr. Murray in the chair.
bill was reported without'amendment, am or
dered by the House to be eqgrofk'd for a t ir
reading..BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
February ift, »793
WHEREAS foreigners holding Mock in
the Bank of the United States may pre
fer receiving their Dividend* in Ltwope, to re
ceiving them in America,
RESOLVED, That sny proprietor of the
Capital Stock, of the Bank of ihc United State*
in Europe, (hall be entitled to receive
ciihir in Loudon 01 in Arnlteidain, the haii
yeariy dividends which may be declared there
on—"in London at the rate of one pound sterling
for every lour hundred and forty-five cents, or
ia Amftordain at the raie ol one guilder curreui
money for every forty cents and tour mills—-he
dividend declared in January of each year, to
be paid iu London or in Amfteidani on the fc
cond Monday of July following—and the divi
dend de lared in July of each year, to be paid iu
London or in Amflerdam on the (econd Mon
day of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to trie declaring of any Dividend, so to be
pan! in London or in Amrtndain) thail give au
thentic notice to the Prcfident and Direflors ot
the Bank at which of tlie said Cities he will re
ceive the said Dividend.
By ihe ftxfidcnt jnd Oircftors.
JOHN KEAN', Cafkicr.
SANK OFT HE UNITED STATES.
Resolved,
THAT the Cafh<er be auihonfed to receive
from the prop' letor of any number of com
plcat (hares, such Cemficates, not in his own
name, ;-s he tna> be the propiictor of; and after
cancelling the fame, 10 iflue a new Certificate or
Certificates in lieu thereof, ;n the uame ot such
proprietor.
Resolved, That in all f.nurc transfers of
Conmlcat (hares in the capital flock of ihe Bank,
the Certificates of the tiansferred be can
celled, and a new Certificate or Certificates be
ifTued in the name of the transferee or purchaser.
Resolved, That the Certificates in futtue
ifTued, be foi one or more (hares, as the p*«>-
prietor may recjuett ; and the new Certificate or
Certificates (halt be ot correfpondeht numbers
with ihofe in lieu of which they arc issued.
JOHN KEAN, Cashier,
ep3W
Insurance Company.
AT a general meeting (by adjournment) of
the Insurance Company of North-America,
on Wednesday the 16'h inliant,
It was Rcfolved,
THAT the Instalments which, according 10
the Conftnution, will becomc due on the tecond
Monday of July and January next, or either ol
them, may be paid by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so paying
such inllalment, Or inftalmeim, (hall receive a
proportionate (hare of the Dividends thereafter
to be made, calculating such ftiare from the firit
day of the month fuctecding luch payments rc
fpedtively. Extract from the Minutes,
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, |m. 23.
Advertisement.
Mr. JOSHUA HARBIN,
Si R,
YOU will please to notice, that I intend
to file a Bill in the High Court of Chancery*
in the Stat* of Maryland, to compel you to con
vey the following Traits of LAND, to wit—
Harbin's Lot, <ontaining one hundred acres of
land; Evans's Ihance, containing fifty aoesof
land; Piney Grove, containing feventy-t-wo and
one half acres of land ; and pait ot James's Trait,
containing twenty-five acres ; in the whole, twp
hundred and forty-fiven and one halt acres of
land ; fituaie, lying *nd being, in Montgomery
County, In the State of Maryland ; agreeable to
your Bond of Conveyance, entered into by you
to me the twenty-sixth day of November, 1781.
I am, with due rcfp«.£t, thy friend,
JOSEPH EVANS.
Ann Arundel County, State 9J Maryland,
Februar\ \fl, 1792. (ep 10W)
A New Post-Road.
HAVING been defued to establish a poft
ro»id from Reading, in 1 lie state of Penn
sylvania, to Wiiliamfburg, at the Great Folks of
the Genefee river, Notice is hereby given, ihat
proposals will be received at the General Pofl-
Office, for carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Wiiliamfburg aforefeifl, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading and the town of
Northumberland ; from the latter place to Loyal
Sock creek ; 1 hence to Lycoming creek ; thence
in the new road to the Painted Post, on Tioga
liver; and thence to Wiiliamfburg.
The piopof-lj. will be received until the 15th
of March next, inclusively; the carriage of the
mail to commence within one month after
wards.
Neceflary P<>ft-Offices are to be established on
the route, ami such petfons appointed Poll
matters as the Contra&or (hall name, and the
Poihnaflct-Gt neral approve.
Within three months afier the carriage of this
mail is commenced, the Contractor is to ilatc to
the Poftmaflcr-General the days and hours of its
arrival and departure at and from the principal
Port-office*, which experience {hall prove to be
moll convenient; and thereafter the mail is to
be delivered at the refpc&ive Poft-offices at the
houtsfo fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted,
on penalty of one dollar for each hour's delay,;
and for the non-performance of,* trip, the Con
trador to forfeit twenty dollars.
Ihe term of the contradl cannot excced eight
years. During its continuance the Contractor is
to receive the rates of poftageby law eftabltfhed,
and to have the exclulive ptivilcge of carrying
letters and packets for hue, such excepted, as
JhaH be sent by a special meiTenger, or which are
or Ala]l be by law declared free.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P.M.G.
Geiifral PoJLOJJice, Jan. 22, 1793.
TICKE
Jn the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be hadaISAMUEL COOLER.'* Fcny.
City of Washington.
Ja.nua.ky 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this Ciiy will be of-
Icfitl tor f.»le at au& on, by the Com mif
fn'iios, 011 ihe 17th <iay of Sep'cmbcr next —
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the rcTiduc ai three equal annual pay
ments with yearly iute.rtfton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clcikto the Com'rs.
Extract of an A£ of the Ceneral AflVmbly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Cu-
Itimbi*, aud the City ot Walhington.
" Be it enabled, That any foreigner may by
deed or will, hereafter to be made, take and hold lands
within that part of the laid Territory whir ft fas with' t f
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands nay be con
veyed by him, and tranfwitted to and b: inherited by ~
his heirs or relations, as if he and thes were citizens
of thn State: Provided, That no foieigner J/idl\
in virtue hereof, be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen
Jan. 19.
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful Gtuation on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a lint of direction towards ine Federal
City and GcojgeTown,in full view of each olace,
commanding a profpett of the river and adjacent
country of Maryland and Virginia,'for many
miles ; about 45 or 50 acres of Land) lying dt
re£lly ou the river, will he fold, with the im
provement*, which arc, a two-story framed
d welling-houfe, neatly finifhed, a kitchen, office,
buck fmoke-houle and flairyt two-story framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ice
houie, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
cessary improvements ; the whole of the land
enclofcd with posts and fails, ten or fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its
contiguity to thole thiee towns mult render it an
object worthy the attention of any person who
wilbes to invest money in a property that mull
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in T
crealfc of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central (ituation to each place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep shore and harboui,
capable of receiving veflels of ai*y burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be creftcd here to the City ©f
Wafhingiou and the Maryland Ihores leading to
Baltimoieaod Philadelphia.—Also 10 fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles dillant,
which will suit well to supply the above in
wood and timber. The title may be seen to the
above property, which is indisputable, and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, living
BALDWIN DADE.
December 12 th% 1792
BY the Commiflioneis appointed to prepare
the Public Buildings, &c. within the Ci'y
of Wafbington, for the reception of Congress
and for their permanent residence after the year
1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,0 c© Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
1 Supeib Hotel, with baths, )
out houses, &c.&c. to cofl )
1 Cash Prize
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
5, cOO are
i,coo
500
100
5°
2 5
ao
10
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 Prizes
33'®6j BUi.ks
50,000
The sole design of this Lottery being to facili
tate other improvements together with the Public
Buildings—it is the particular desire of the Com
miflioners that these may be effe&ed with as
few deduttions from the Prizes as possible—how
far their endeavors may be answered, the Scheme
of the Lottery will deir.onttrate. The keys of
the Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to
the fortunate possessor of the ticket drawn a
agaiufi its number.
All the other prizes will be paid, without
dcduflion, in one month after the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Wainington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may he hereafter announced.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9th of Septembci tiexi,atthe City of "Waftiing-
Tickets mav be had of Col. W m . Dickens, City
T/eafurrr of Washington ; of MeflYs. James Wejl
B Co. Baltimore ; of Mr. Peter Oilman. Boston j
aqd at such other places as will be hereafter
published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS wiH
be given for the bell Plan of in elegaiu,w>4 tr>n
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, ifprtfetited
onorbcJoTc the 10//1 ej April next ; and a pre
ference will be given 10 the Artist for a Con.
tract, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erected, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 fret, with a
back avenue to the stables, &c. Sections and
cltiinaies of the expenfc will be expected
with lite elevations, &c. compleat ; and ,0,000
dollars mult he regarded by the Aichiteft jsthe
utmost limit in the cxpriife intuidcd lor this
P ur P° fe - S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affaiis of the City.
January jg.
300
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
BookUUtr, at the Stone-Houfc, in Second Jirect,
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
o*, A DICTIONARY of ARTS, SCIENCES,
AND
MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
COMPREHENDING
THE History, Piaftice, of each,
according to the Latest Discoveries and im
provements : and full Explanations given of the
various detached parts of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural and Artificial Obje&s, or to
Matters Eccltfuftical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, See. Including Elucidations of the m<»ft im
portant Topics relative to Religion,Morals,Man
ners, and the Oecouoinv of Lile : together with
a Description of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, See. throughout
the World ; a General Hiftoiv, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empires, Kiugdoms,
and States; and an account of the Lives ol the
mofi Eminent Pcrfons in every Nation, from the
earliell ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the bell tn
frveral Languages ; the molt approved Dictiona
ries, as well of General Science as of particular
branches ; the Tranfd&ions, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned societies, both ai home and
abroad—the MS. le&urcs of eminent profeflors
on different Sciences : and a variety <>f original
Materials, furnilhed by an extensive Correfpon
dc nee.
The Seventh Volume contain# a description
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Expe
rimental Philosophy, Svftem of Farriery, Feudal
system, Fire, fi)ce'd Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Foflils, hiftoryof Fiance, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Glass,
See. with a variety of articles in natural history,
biography and miscellanies. Illuilraicd with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplate*.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the pin pole) which
will be'occafionally renewed bcfoie they con
tract a worn appeannce.
11. The,work is furniftied in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubfenbers chufe; the price
ot the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far exceed in number those given in any other
t'cientific dictionary. At the clofc of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif.
picce, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It iscxpc&ed the work will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
(pj" Those who with to become possessors of
thisvaluable woik will please to be earlv in their
applications, as the fubfeription is nearly doled.
Jan. 23.
ep 'in
50,000
25,000
January 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are entitlrd for fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the sth day of Match 1793, be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioners of the Loans
within the dates refpettively, under the usual
regulations, viz.
20,000
15,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
20,0®0
Every application for payment mud be ac
companied by the following vouchers :
lft. The certificate given by the {late, fpecify
ifig that the person po(letting the fame is in fa 61
an Invalid, and ascertaining ihe sum to which,
as such, he is annually intnlcd.
150,000
Dollars 350,000.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form ;
A. B. came before me, one of the J udices
county of in the (late of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his poffefiion was giv
en, of which the following is a copy (ihp cer
ttficate given by the state to be lecited) That
he fcrved (rer.irnent, corps or vcifel) at the
time he was disabled, ana that he now resides
in the and county of and has r»Tided
there for the last years, previous to which
he reiided in
In cafe an Invalid (liould apply for payment
hv an attorney, the said attorney, befidesthe
ceitificate and oath before recited, tnuft produce
| a fpeeial letter ot attorney agreeable to the fob
[ lowing form :
I, A. B. of county of slate of
do hereby conlfitute and appoint C. D. of
my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my penfton loi fix months, as an Invalid
of the United States, trom tlie 41 h day of Sep.
teinber t/9 2 » ending the 4th day of March
• > wa-.
Acknowledged bifote mr,
Applications Qf executors and administrators
inult be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpeflive offices, and .If,, of the tit,,..- the
Invalid died, whose pei Ciou they may claim.
By Command of the P»\ iident
of the Unitfn States,
11. KN'OX, Secretary at War.
T !! C S'J" ! f rS "" Otitis are re
qucJUd to pubhjh Iht above in their Ncujpapcn hr
the r '< -re 0 j 2 mattli., Jr 1
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VII, or
On d Plan entirely neat
BY WHICH
are diverted into the Form of Dilbndt,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS
War Department,
Signed and Sealed
in the Preftnce of
A further Caution.
ALL per.on. are hereby caui IIJIKI I | 10nl _
■ng of riwnas Mtche & Co. or „ lv ' k
pr.ion, tour Nulri ol Hand, K ivrn l>v .1 . i
James Gardner, of Wilmington, Nout.'r "i
to Samuel Jack/on of P!„l„.ldph„,,» be.,,,,,?''
the 19' h July, , 7 8 5 , amount,,,;; , ht vh 7,.;' e
£.2,t00 13 3 North-Carofina cii.uncv •,£
greatelt part ot which (aid N olr , havr !
to-fawi r/iomui Maiku & Ct>. m proof ot J f
the fuhlcril.f if n«e the-dcp'.fitmn of Mi V'' rll
Maudult Jart/on, and other do, i.mtnls Wlt'ii 'l
fully and clearly illuftiatc ihc owutr. .
It u therefore exptfced (hat this \ mKt •.
the one aovcuitd n
■79' i wll ' bt » lulficiem caunonw ihc iH,,.li
IHOMAS WRIGHT, )
HOBtRT SCOT 1", C >
MAR. R. WILLKINCij *)
w;i,„i» s tc«, (K. C.) A,,f. 1, i 7 q,,.
books,
ruiNTIO AKDltllll
M A T HEW C A R £ y
Mo. 118, Market-Street, I'MUdelthiu '
AMEKICANMUSEU.\i,Iu„.,
mem m January 1787, to Junet7g :i ,„
eleven vols. Price, neatly bouud and Jcucitd
feventeer. dollars ana thiec fifths.
This work, which is iiovy conducted nn an im.
prov.d plan, containing the best (MetM-puhliftfd
lor and agamft the proceedings ol goteiniveut
will t)C found to conjoin at It Ml as girat a variety
ofpolitical, agricultural,and uiifceliaDcous tflijs
as any ever publifbed in America. Perhaps iu nd
one work arc so many valuable ntsrifptct
lng the hiiloty of this country, coikfltd together.
His Excellency the of the United States
has declared of it, that " a more uTcful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more defervrng of public encouragement."
The fubfeription is two dollars and a halt per
ann. Gentlemen in the iourKiy who wilh l 0
be supplied with this work, are r'equeftcd 10 ,#ive
commiflion to friends in the city to lubfcnbe for
and receive if Any of the back numtcis
may be had iu order to complete fcts.
2, Smith's Letters 10 Man led Women, on Nurf
,ii({ and tile management ol Ctnldieu.
" We recommcnd these letters to the perufil of
those to whom they are particularly arldielfed."—.
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. sot —Price, bound,
62 cents.
3 Duncan's Elements of Logic—74 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding-—SP cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—-50 crius.
o. Lsdies* Pocket Linrary, containing Mtfi
More'.sEifays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioucfs of Lambent Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady,Mis.Cha
pone 011 command ot Temper, More't Fables for
ihe Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Piiceadpl
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beau
tie*L.L.j>. profeflor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen...Price
'hree-fourths of a dollar. Ol this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : "We
have seen nothing on these lubjcfcts more plain,
more perfpicußlls* or mo/egenexaily ufcfui"
S. B. It is introduced into the Uuiveriiiy in Phi.
iadelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price tour.filths of a
dollar.
to. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars,
n. Nk cker'sTreanfeon the imponance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fitrh* ol a dqllar.
12. Examination of the Oblcrvations ol Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 B'ths of a dollar.
13. The Constitutions of the fevcral United Stafij.
with the Federal Confkitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Pricethree-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price tlnee-fifths of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The Doway Translation ol the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—- Price, elegantly bound and luiei
ed, 50/2—-plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecura—Price a
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Chi i ilia it Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar
21. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged—
P~ " sixth o f " liar.
a jloJ
'rice a
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a ihiid
of a dollar.
23. Sclc6l Poems, chiefly American—Priflft
sixth of a dollar.
Said Ca u e y has for sale, a large afforttrcnt cf
Books, European as well as American t'dmori*,
which he will dispose of on the moll ic&fftaafeU
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
I commands, may depend upon being fupplicd in
the most fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities lor public libraries
or to (ell a^ain.
TO THE PUBLIC,
r PHE Subscriber* having been appointed a
JL committee of the board of the Truflets of
the Urnverfity of North-Carolina, tor the pur
pose of receiving proposals from fuck gentlemen
as may intend to undertake the inftroflion of
youth in that institution. take the opportunity
of making known to the public their wilh that
such gentlemen should fignity their inclination
to the (übferibers.
The objefls to which it is contemplated by
the Board to turn thi attention of theftud'tuif
on the firll eftablifhmcnt. are—The si"dv of
Languages, particularly the fftgUfh-H&fl***?*
ancient anß modern—the Bclle-ieitrcs— Logic
and Moral Philosophy—the know ledge the
Mathematics and Natural Philofoohy—- Agrici: ; -
lure and Botany, with the principles of A'ch>
tenure.
Gentlemen eonvcrfant in tlitfc branches ot
Science «iud Literature, and Who can be wcl»
commerced, w;ll receive vfcf'v h&nidTon»e
racement bv the lioard. The ewcrei(Vs of jnC
infti.tution will commence as early s poinDl®
after the compile?ion of the buildings ol the un>-
vcrfity, whitu are to be com railed for iwniech
aielv. SAWUFL ASH£ f
D.is oj»2ra
A, M CORK.
JOHN HA YE,
J>AVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLES'