A NATIONAL >>APLR, FLUSHED WEDNESDAYS SATTR DAYS HY JOHN FF.NNO, No. 34, NOPTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 72 of Vol. IV.]
■:,'i iV.ty
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
February lit, 1793.
WHEREAS foreigners holding Stock in
the Bank of the United States may pre
fer receiving their Dividends in Euiope, to re
ceiving them in America,
RESOLVED, That any proprietor of the
Capital Stock of the Bank of the Uiiited States
rcfiding in Europe, shall be entitled to receive
either in London or in AmUerdam, the half
■yearly dividends which may be declared there
on—in London at the rate of one pound ftcrling
Tor evevy lour hundred and forty-five ccnts, or
in Amsterdam at the rate of one guilder current
money for every forty cents and four mills-—the
dividend declared in January of each year, to
be paid in London or in Amsterdam on the se
cond Monday of July following—and the divi
dend declared in July of each year, to be paid in
London or in. Amfterdain on the ircoud Mon
day of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to the declaring of any Dividend, so to be
paid in London or in Amsterdam) (hall give au
thentic notice to the Prcfident and Directors ps
the Bank at which of the said Cities he wiU it
cCive the said Dividend.
By the President and Directors.
JOHN KEAN, Cajhier.
War Department,
Ja nuar y 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are entitled for fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will becomc due
on the sth day of March »793, will be paid ori
the said day by ihe Commt(Turners of the Loans
within the ftatcs refpc&ively, under the usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment must be ac
companied by ihe following vouchers:
i(i. The cettificate riven by the ttate, fpecify
ing that the person poffefling the fame is in fact
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as fucb. he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Justices
of the county of in the state of and
made oaih thatjh#* is the fame A. B. to whom
the or'grnal certificate in his poffcflioii wai giv
en, of which the fol'owing is a copy (the -cer
tifirate given by the state lo be lecited) That
he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the
time he was disabled, ana that he now resided
in the and county of and has resided
there for the iaft years, previous to whick
lie resided in
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment
by an attorney, the (aid attorney, hefides the
certificate and oath before recited, mufl produce
a Ipecial letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
1, A, 3. of vountv of, state of
do hereby coattiiute and appoint C- £>. of
iny lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of '
my pension tor fix months, as an Invalid
of the United States, trom the 4th day of Sep
tember 1795, and ending the 4th day of March
1793-
Signed" »jmT Scaled
in the PreftnM of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators
mull be accompanied with legal evidencQuof
their refpedive offices, and also of the time the
Invalid died, whose pension they may claim.
By Command of the Picfident
of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
The Pi inters in the refpeflive States are re
ffuejUd to publish the above in their Neu/Jpapers fur
the J"pace of 2 months.
City of Walhington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of.JLois in this City will be of
fered »or sale at au&ion, by the Commis
sion era, on the 17th day of September ue»t. —
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the refiduc at three e-qual annual pay
ments with yearly interest on the whote princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, CUrk te tie Cm'rs.
£xtra& of an Ast of the General Aflembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the Cuv of Washington.
41 Be ir ena&cd, That any foreigner may by
deed or a;//, hereafter to be made, take mid. hold lands
uiithin that part oj tie said Territory which lies with
in this State, in the Jam, manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be <on-
t'eyed by htm, and transmitted to and be inherited by
hts heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizen r
«f this State : Pibvidrd, That no foreigner Jhai" y
in virtue hereof be entitled to anyfuither or other
privilege of a citizen."
J»»». 19-
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER'i Ferry.
Wednesday, February 6, 1795.
FOR .SAL E,
By the Suljcil/er, at Walnut-Strict Whaif,
BILL OF EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Firfor immediate ule, in pipes & quarter calks,
T£NERIFFE WINE, in pipes,
SHERRY WINE, in quarter cafld,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proof,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLL'M,
Two Baljs tO-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A lieW 13-4 Inch fcABLE, 120 fathoms lon£.
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jaji. ig, 1793. c p im
TO BS SOLD, OR LEASED
FOR SEVEN OR TEN YEARS,
THE FOLLOWING
HOUSES.
near Fourrh-ftreel/
•23 feet front, fas two parlours f>elows ihf
bonl one 21J by 17J feet, the back parlour ts
18 by 14 feet. The front room up Hairs is 26,?
by feet. There are five good chambers in
this house, betides the garret is divided uuo
three rooms, in two of them there arc fire
places.
The other House is 27 feet upon Walnut
ftreet, and 52 fret upon 4th ftrret; there are tw«
good parlours below, one of ihem 25 by 20 1-2
fret, the other 95 by 18 1-2 feel, and seven com
plete bed-chambers; lWides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largest hotife has also a
house-keeper's room. It is intended there (hall
be a communication from both of these- haufes
to a ncighbouiing ice-house, fufficiently large 10
supply 3 houses. Within 5 o yards of the He
houses, there will be compleat stables and coach
houses, for both houses; they will he fini (he<i
in the most complrat manner, and the ke,s
ready to be delivered early in the lummer.
On paving half the money down (if fold) tte
oth< r half mav be paid bv instalments, or the
whole may remain for 5 years, paying intcrefl
and giving security 00 the premises.
For termb ol sale or lease, apply to the Sub
scriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has J or SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty.five pounds
sixteen {hillings and fix-pence, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS, that will contajn two
and a half and three and a half bushels.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1792. ep2vt
JuJl puilijhti,
By H. & P. Rice,
No. 50, Market-Street,
the SYSTEM OF
A(ni^€a / nd'i I
Used by Mr. Lloyd, in taking down ihc
DEBATES of CONGRESS.
%* Rtprefentation having been made, that the
Jkortnefs of the period, limited Jor the Subfcrip'.ion,
has deprived many gentlemen at a dijiance, of an op
portunity 0/fending in their names ;—the Editor, in
order to accommodate them, and to render this puhlU
cation more extensively nfeful, has determined not to
raise the price to a Doliar and half (as intended) be
fore the fifteenth of March;—making however a dij
crimination, in favor <tj the aQual Subfiribers, by
printing their copies on fupeifing Royal Writing
paper. A few remaining copies of this kind will
he delivered to the earliefl oj the non-Jubfcnbingpur
chajers, at the Jame price as those on the common
printing paper, viz. Owe Dollar, in marbled covers ;
neatly bound, a French Crown.
Jan. 26,
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG
Of the very SrA quality,and lauft importation
fio;n Canton, ria New-York, byict»i),st
No. 19,
Third, between Chcfnui and Market Sttrr'i,
N. B. A Jew Boxes oj the above HYSON forfait.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Wafhmgton,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & CHUK^HAA'K.
TO HE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Cold—
gradaatt d according to Law—Blank Mani lefts-—
And Blanks for ttte various Powers of Attorney
luxellary in tranfa&ing Buuncfs at the Treafwiy
»r Bauk gfj the the Uoiied Stale*.
285
CONCLUSION OF
An ACT concerning the registering
and recording of Ships or Veflels.
Sec. 24. A NDbiit furthereriafreri, That
the master, or other person hav*
ing the command or charge of any (hip or vel
fel, recorded in pursuance of this act, lhall
on entry of such (hip or. velfel, produce the
certificate of such record, to the collector of
the diftritt, where (he shall be so entered ;
in failure of which, the said ship or veflel
%a!l not be entitled to the privileges of a ves
sel, recorded as aforefaid : Provided always,
and be it further ena&ed, That nothing here
in contained shall be construed to make it ne
ceflary to record, a second time, any ship or
vefTel, which shall have been recorded, pur-
to the ast, hereby in part repealed ; but
fnch recording shall be of the like force aiul
efie<st, as is made, pufftjant to this act. —
Sec. 25. And be it furfher enacted, That
the fees and allowances, for the several ser
vices to be performed, pursuant to tiiis ast,
and the distribution of the fame, shall be as
follow*, to wit : For the admeaftirement of
every ihip or veilel, of one hundred tons, and
tinder, one cent per ton ; for the adineafure
ment of every (hip or vetfe! above one hun
dred, and not exceeding two hundred tons,
one hundred and fifty cents ; for the admea
surement of every (hip or veilel, above two
hundred ton*, two hundred cents: for every
certificate of registry or record, two hundred
cents; for every endorsement upon a certifi
cate of registry or record, one hundred cents;
and for taking every bond required by this
ast, twenty-five cents. The whole amount
of which fees (hall be received, and accounted
for, by the collector, or, at his op: ion, by the
naval officer, where there is one ; and Where
there is a collector, naval officer, and survey
or, (hall be equally divided, monthly, between
the said officers ; and where there is no naval
officer, two thirds to the collector, and the
other third to the surveyor ; and where ttfere
is Only a collector, he (hall receive the whole
amount thereof; and where there is more
than one surveyor ill any diftrift, each of them
Hull receive his proportionable part of fqch
fees, as (hall Strife in the port, for which he is
appointed i Provided always, that, in all ca
' fes, where the tonnage of any (hip or veiiV!
(hall be ascertained by any person appointed
for that purpose, such person /hall be paid a
reasonable compensation therefor, out of the
fe»s aforefaid, before any distribution thereof,
as aforefaid. And every collector, and naval
officer, and every surveyor, who lhall relide
at a port, where there is no collector, {hall
cause to be affixed, and constantly kept, in
some conspicuous part of his office, a fair ta
ble of the rates of fees, demandable by this act.
Sec. 26. And be it further enacted, That
every collector, or officer, who dial! know
ingly make, or be concerned in making, any
falfe register or record, or lhall knowingly
grant, or be concerned in granting, any falfe
certificate of registry or record of, or for any
fiiip or veflel, or other falfe document what
soever, touching the fame, contrary to the
tfue intent and meaning of this ast, or who
(hall designedly take any other, or greater
fees, than are by this ast allowed, or who shall
receive any voluntary reward or gratuity,
for any of the services performed, pursuant
thereto ; and every surveyor, or other peri
son appointed to measure any /hip or veffeV,
who lhall wilfully deliver to any collector, or
naval offiier, a falfe description of such /hip
or veflel, to be regiltered or recorded, /hall,
upon conviction ofany such neglect, or offence,
forfeit the sum of one thousand dollars, and
be rendered incapable of fervingin any office
of trust oc profit, under the United States;
and if any person or authorized and
required by this ast, in refpefi to his or their
office or offices, to perform any ast or thing,
required to be done or performed, pursuant
to any of the provisions of this ast, /hall wil
fully neglect to do or perform the fame, ac
cording to the true intent and meaning of
this ast, such person or persons (hall, on being
duly convicted thereof, if not fubjeft to the
penalty and difqualification aforefaid, forfeit
the sum of five hundred dollars for the firft
offeuce, and a like sum for the second offence,
and lhall, thenceforth, be rendered incapable
of holding any office of trust or profit under
the United States.
Sec. 27. And be it further enacted, That
if any certificate ofregiftry, or rccord, /hall
he fraudulently or knowingly used for any
ihip or veflel, not then a&ually entitjed to
the benefit thereof, according to the true in
tent of this such (iiip or veflel fiiall be
forfeited to the United States, with her tackle,
apparel, and furniture.
Sec. 28. And be it further enacted, That
if any person or persons shall falfely make
oath or affirmation, to any of the matters,
herein required to be verified, such perloti or
peiTons ftiall fufier the like pains and penal
ties, as fhaii be incurred by persons commit
ting wilful and corrupt petjury; and that if
any person or persons (hall forfe, counterfeit,
erase, alter, orfalfify any certificate, reeiiler,
record, or other document, mentioned, def
cribcd or authorized, in and by this ast, such
[Whole No. 594.]
person, or pcrfoni, shall, for every such of
fencc, forfeit the sum it live huiidieci del-
Jars.
Sec. 29. And be it further enafl-er', That
all the penalties ami forfeitures, Which may
he incurred) for offences agsinft this a<s>, fcail
and maybe sued for, profetnted and recover
ed, in fucli courts, and be di<pofed of, in furh
manner as any penalties and forfeitures,which
may be incurred, for offences againlt the afi,
intituled " An ast to provide more effeaually
ior the cplleftian of the duties impo&d by
laM«5 on goods, wares, and merchandize im
ported into the United States, and 011 tlitf
tonnage of (hips or velfels," may legally be
fned for, pro<ecuted, recovered and disposed
of : Provided always, That if any officer en
titled to a part, or lhare of any such penalty,
or forfeiture, (hall be necessary, as a witness,
on the trial for such penalty or forfeiture,
such officer may be 3 witness upon the said
trial j but in such cafe, he lhall not receive,
nor be entitled to ativ part or share of the
said penalty or forfeiture ; and the part or
stare, to which he would other wife have been
entitled, (hall accrue to the United States.
Sec* 30. And be it further enatfed, That
from and after the last Hay of March next,
this ast {hart be in full force and effect ; and
so much of the act, intituled, " An <Lft for re
ndering ant! clearing veifels, regulating the
coasting trade, and for other pUrpofes/' as
c omes ■within the purview of this ast, fhstfl*
after the said last day of 4 March, be repealed.
JONATHAN TRUMBUI.L,. Sptakir.
oj the Hon ft of Repre[entatfr.er.
JOHN ADAM'S, Vict-PreJ,d„,t*f iht
United States, and Pre/idem of tie Seiute.
APPROVED. DECEMBER 31, \jQ^.
GEO. WASHINGTON,
Prepdent of the United States,
For the GJZEtTE of, the UMiTED STATES.
John Fen no,
BF.ING a lover of new fafliions, or rather
having a great dislike ro old faik'Ojpi ihat
are founded on folly, I obfeivc with grea 1 pina
fore lhai we are .like to drop ihc old hackney'd
falhion of calling every man Mister or Malier,
when we fpfrak or write to hirri. Many yesrs
hi ve pafErrl f.ncc chafed -tn Ug a mirk.
of dirtintlion—for it is equally Cortlnjon among
feivants as among theif ruaftcs. The word Ci
tizen has been proposed as a fubflitute for Mister;
t with great deference to their wisdoms wh<»
a/e making the change, I think this title for ge
neral use is somewhat exceptionable. The
word Citizen, which originated in Roim«
was not formerly understood as conveying the
idea of Equality. The Noble and Patrician in
Rome, wqs not less a Citir.cn than the Pie„bejj»n,
though their refpts<ve ranks in focicty ue«e
very different; Jmd between you and me, it hai
been fufpe&ed that oar yoang Nobility, called
Cincinnati, are defnous to intronuce rliis .'niient
title, with the hope that it may hereafter ftrve (0
cover antient orders rr diftm&ions. The tills
Citizen is not a good fubflitute for Miller, be
c a use it cannot be generally prefixed even to the
names oi refpeftable petfons. How fbould we
addr fs a man jutl arrived from England or Ire
land ? He is not a Citizen—and we cannot wjih
any fort of propriety call him Master. Snppofc
the man to be addrefled wj»s just arrived from
Spain or Portugal, the difficulty would not be
removed, 'f he fubjeft of thole kingdoms i* not
a Citizen, nor is he a free man, and to Call him
» fl<fc»e, might' poflibly accord with truth, but
aot v ith gohd manners.
If the fuMlitnte for Mister is to be eorfidered
as a mark of afff&ion, perhaps we (ball find tfiat
Brother is more proper than Citizen, for it
may fairly be applied to men oi any countly ;
and this mode of addiefs is already adopted by
the Savages, who are perfe£Uy free. It njuft
howevei be admitted, that by the indifenmitjatt
use of the appellation Brother, we lofethc name
by which we now diilmguifh a near and gene
rally a dear relation. It alio be admitted
that the title Brother cannot well be applied to
more than half of the fpceies.
f . I am ready to declare that I do not admire
flattering titles, nor titles which cannot be in
general ufc without the risque of p'vipg offmcr
or departing fiom truth ; and lor this reason, 1
would submit the propnety of the title
Biped instead of Milter. This titlfc is perfectly
simple ; it fits people of evety country; it is
male or female ; it is not of afiftocratic origin ;
it may eafilv be abbreviated on the face of a
letter ; and while it fully accords with truth, it
can never bear the suspicion of fla'tery. At pie
fent there are cufes in which, tor the fake of
greater refpeft, we vary the common address.
Thus, instead of Sir, we fay Deal Sir. In like
manner, when the new title thaJl be.adoptrd,
instead of Biped J. P« we may fay« Biped Citizen
]. P.—But as every body knows that J, P. is a
hiped and a Citizen, it inay be quelkionrd whe«
ther either of those appellations, those pleonasms,
those truisms, can be of any use prefixed to his
name on the face of a letter, or in common par*
Certainly they are of no use—and after
we (hall have indulged in a variety of whims, we
may pcflibly discover that the molt proper and
dignified ioim of address is that winch was in
use among .the annents. and is in common uft;
rmong a ve»y rcfpeflablc class of people in this
State —we shall tc lauded with calling ptopla
by their profit uanus,
atticus.*
For the GAZETTE ojthe UNITED STATE.
THE fun difpenfea only life and light—hut
the moon if chiefly ufeful to lift" drunkards
home—and what havoc it makes with our in
tellcfts. It ' s ftrangr, hut ivo lets uue than
ftransei that my bra,.. if, every new moon, a
perfett whulisg. If e lights, I hear oracles—
I dream dreams, I toutcli ureadful things lam
in » p»roxyf<n lor two or three days, and my
family think it prudent 10 watch me during all
Ihe term of the fit I will not tell you how
much I have fuifcrcd on thele occaftons. The
bltsc devils, I declare on my conlcience, a-e
worse than the black—for the latter only tempt
the mind with finful pieces, or inflid,pvnifh
meius OH the human bodies by pinching, thtutt
ine up thorns into the fl fh, or by tooth-achs or
vouts, or rheumatifins. But the blue devils
make themfelvts at home in the bia.n, and there
they hEht their infernal sites. I hope I have
(uffercd enough to expiate my fins in this world.
However, my family have lound lome re.ief for
themfelve. as well as for ...e, by a very fortu
nate expedient. They offer me at the beginning
of the fit, pen, ink ™<i paper l rct.ie to a
loom, and there I fit and fcnbble alone-and
what do you think I w.ite about. P ilit.es, Sir,
nothing but politics-am', all my ni.dnef. run.
off into paragraphs again# the heads of depart
ments-the excife-the adumption-thc bank,
&e I foam at the mouth—howl and cut ca
pers—ayd then I scribble away about the cor
ruption of our government, the
men in Congress, the abominable da,k dehgns
again# liberty—and then I cut and fldlh the old
Tories, and Arilfocrats and Lordlir.gs. Sotne
t<mes my madntfs runs into prophecy. I lee
our government turning into a mnnaichy. 1 lee
the golden throne of a despot. I fee the crowd
coming to beg the honor of flipping their necks
into the nooses of the halters which hang, as
thick M girths «nd cruppers, in a saddlers (hop,
round the ihrone. But (h.s mrtnarchy raving is
not frequent: It happens very like the tyring
tides, only when the tnoon has more than ordi
nary influence. Thus, Sir, alter fcnbbling a
whole day, perhapstwo, my frenzy gets all upon
paper, except so much as to induce my fending
my paragraphs to the press, and then I am sur
prised to fee them tiom time to time coming out
in print. During mv lucid intervals, I forget
all I have written, ami therefoie I am not able
to prevent the publication. But my mind begins
to reproach me. I fee that I do mtfchief-a
certain Gazette is filled with mv ravings, and
the paflions of the people are kindledl again# the
National Government. What (hall Ido ? Be
ing mad while I write fed it tout and libellous
pieces, the moon is more to blame than I am.
Whether the printer be in his right mind tomfert
such incoherent and groundless (lander ot the
government, I know not. Poor man, I fear he
is as much a lunatic as I am myfetf.
I take this method to give the country notice,
that as I canoot help my disease, it will be the
fault of sober people if they fuffer themselves to
be deluded by my suggestions.
peter crackbrain.
Foreign Affairs.
From Paris papers brought by the Suffrtin Packet,
arrived at New-York the 28 th ult. fromVOrienty
after 60 days pajage.
PARIS, November 16.
THE commifiaries of the prisons have re
ported, that among the number of pri
soners, there are nine forgers ot falfe affignats.
JuJl publijhel—The Geography of France,
describing according to the new mode of divi
sions, departments, &c.
In this judicious work is laid down the li
mits of every department, the mines, mine
rals, and other natural curiosities of France,
the manners, enftoms of the people, Sic. with
a summary of the origin and progrel's of the
present revolution ; an account of the de
crease of monarchy, andoppreffion in that em
pire, and the introduction and progrel's of the
Rights of Mau.
Cepy of a letter from General Labairdimnaye,>rcad in
the National Lonv'cntion.
" I announce to you, Citizens, that my ad
vance guard will this day march for Anver*,
through Termonde, and that it will arrive
there to-morrow, or at fartheft the day after.
The citadel will surrender the fame day to
the army of the French Republic, under my
command. The inhabitants of Anvers are
armed, the cockade is there very numerous,
and there remains in the citadel only five or
fix hundred men, and Pome sick. The Auf
■ trians have sent off in boats the greatest part
of their provisions ; my advanced guard has
intercepted some of them, laden with grain
and ammunition, at Tirlemorjt; but, not
withftandiug all our diligence, they are too
far advanced for us to have it in our power
to capture the whole convoy. I have sent
some battalions to occupy Bruges & Oftend, by
which means the Northern Army will be in
pofTeffion of the maritime parts of all Austrian
Flanders. " LABOURDONNAYE."
VIENNA, O&ober 27.
Though it be decided that the war against
France (hall be continued next year, and im
mediate fuins wanted, which cannot return
again into the hereditary states, the emperor
has refolvetl not to tax the provinces, nor to
demand any subsidy. The Aulic council of
war has already made contrasts for conf(der
able deliveries of provisions.
Tbe artillery which fervcd in the siege of
BeSgtade, is already ranged on the glacis of
Vieena, to be trantported to the combined
army.
The hereditary states of the empire, have
engaged to furnilh the emperor 40,000 re
cruits the levies of which are to commence
with the month of November.
LONDON, November 14.
Van der Soot ii now in London, but for
what express purpose is not known.
We (hall certainly do credit to the French
Generals, a* we promised, in praising the bra
very of their conduct in the late action before
M in-, wliicli was one of the mod bloody and
well fought battles that modern times can
l'urnilh us an example of. Indeed it is the
only aftlon of consequence wliieh has happen-
Ed during the prcfent war
The French Generals and soldiers have
gained themselves immortal military honors
in this ast ton ; not that the Auftrians* per
haps, deserve it less than their opponents for
both parties fought most bravely ; but the
French were more in numbers, and their ar
tillery, perhaps thefineft in Europe was much
better ordered. A ' ,
What may be the event of this battle it is
impossible to foretell, but we have too much
reft fan to apprehend that the whole country
of Brabant will become a conquest to the
French. It will not however be pnfillani-
moufly delivered up, for we are $;iven to un
derstand, that the Duke de Saxe Tefchen was
determined to dispute every inch of ground
with the French, and accordingly had taken
a strong post at La Halle, two leagues only
from BrulTels, where he intended to make a
nother stand.
Neither Mons nor Tonrnay are places or
any strength, nor were they capable of mak
ing refinance. Both places have been long
iince dismantled of their tortifications.
Mous, which is situated 26 miles S. E. 01
Brufl'eU, was dismantled in the year 174&, af
ter being re (to red by the French at the trea
ty of Aix la-Chapel!e.
Tournay was dismantled of its fortificati
ons in 1745, while it was in potfefiion of the
French, who took it after the famous battle
of Fontfnoy. This city was also restored to
the Aufti ians at the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle.
The or.lv places of ilrength in the Austrian
Netherlands, are Namur and Luxe to burgh ;
the latter is deemed impregnable, though the
fortifications are small.
The French have pot totally baniftied all
ideas of Heaven and Hell, for a letter from
Seneral Wimfden concludes thus, 4t may the
Devil run away with me."
A fc'heefe has been made as a present for his
I Majesty, at North Leach Bean, in Chelhire,
it is near fourteen hundred weight, and nine
yards in circumference.
It is reported, that the Duke de Angon
leme, the Count d'Artois' eldest foil, a youth
of about J7, has been killed in a duel by a
Colonel in the army.
A matrimonial alliance, it is presumed,
from some presages, is intended between some
of the Royal Cousins : i. e. the King's young
est children and the Duke of Gloucefler's son
and daughter.
Mr. Erfkine means to exert his abilities in
defence of Thomas Paine ; several of his
friends, Lord Loughboro' in particular, are
said to have endeavoured to difliuade him from
it; but his resolution appears fixed.
On the 17th of October was married at
Bourdeaux, in France, the Right. Hon. the
Earl of Shrewsbury, to Miss Hoy, of Dublin.
This lady is daughter of Mr. Hoy, altatione",
of that city. His Lordship touching at Bour
deaux, in his elegant yacht, saw Miss Hoy at
the house of a merchant to whom he had let
ters of credit—Her charms were found pow
erful enough to secure her the firft Countess's
Coronet iu England.—The present Earl of
Shrewsbury is premier Earl of England, and (
poflelTes a clear estate of eleven thousand per 1
annum.
The fa(hion of cr/Jpping is become extremely
prevalent among the ladies. The lovely Rut
land's Dutchefs took the lead ; the example
was irreliftable, and now,
Those trejfes which Venus might deem as a favor,
Fall a victim at once to an outlandish Jh&ver,
Who his Jciffars applies with as little remorse %
As a Fox-hunter crops both his dogs and his horse."
DUBLIN, November 15.
TRIAL AT KILMAINHAM.
John Lynam and Francis Pptain, for as
saulting a fherifPs officer in the execution of
his duty, and rescuing the (aid Lynam ofClon
tarf, the fec.ond of O&ober ; also, for a rjot
and aifanlt on Denirs Maden.
This trial disclosed a fubjcdl worthy thefe
rious attention of government. It appeared,
in the course of it, that a colony of French
Jacobins have taken up their quarters at
Clontarf, and are laboring, by every art and
industry, to inspire the townsmen with dil'af
fe&ion to the laws and constitution of the
country.
On this occasion, Potain, a Frenchman,aid-,
ed by k»ven or eight other foreigners, raised a
mob and rescued Lynam out of the hands of
the bailiff, (who had arretted him for debt)
and carried him off in triumph, exclaiming
u Vive la Republique Francoife !"
They were found guilty, and the Court in
passing sentence, reprobated their conduct
with very becoming severity ; observing,
having found an asylum in this well regulated
country, from the diftra&ion of their own, it
would become thettf, 4Mlead of preaching tu
mults and fediti.on, to have exhibited# grate
ful and willing fubmiflion to the laws of thb
land.
That they were mistaken in thinking, that
the inafs of this people were not too deeply
impreifed with the blessings of our free and
admirable constitution, to be tainted by f'uoh
frantic doctrines ; anil they should be
taught pra&ically within the walls of the pri
l'on, that genuine liberty was belt coufulted
by chastising licentiousness.
To be imprisoned for three months, to pay
ten marks, and to give security tor their goed
behavior for three years. '
286
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF RtPREStNI'ATIVES.
Monday, January 28.
The Eill to author,ix a Loan in the Notes
or Certificate s of&e several Stater which,
on a final Settlement of Account' flail have
a Balance due to them f'out the United
States—having been read the third time—
the Quefien, Ml the Bill pals ? -was
put by tie Speaker :
Mr. Page having moved the previous que
(lion, said, that in consequence of his aver
sion to wade the time of the Houfc, which
he always regarded as precious, he generally
waited for the question, without troubling the
House with his reasons for his vote ; always fa
tisfied, if what occurred to him in support of it
was offered by any other member, who might
be better heard and understood but that ,
when the names of the voters were to be held
up to the public view, and when the vote he
meant to give had been represented, by some
members for whom he had the highest refpe&>
as injurious to public creditors, as retrofpe&ive,
and therefore unconstitutional in its operation,
he thought himfelf bound to endeavour to juf
tify his vote.
If the creditors, Mr. Speaker, who are the
objed of the bill before you, were, by the
amendment, excluded from an application to
their debtor ; or, were the general govern
ment the only body to whom they could look
for payment or common justice, 1 would moll
scrupulously avoid interfering with their claims;
or did the bill extend its influence to all the
creditors of the slates impartially, I might
listen to some obje&ions which have been
made to a discrimination, said to be produced
by the amendment. But, Sir, granting all that
has been objected to have its full force, I only
find, that such creditors of creditor states (for
no others are to be benefited by this bill) as
may not be able to eftablilh their claims found
ed on a speculation, which was grounded on
a supposition that this bill would pass, without
the amendment now proposed, will only be left
where they are; and where, in my opinion,
they ought to be left, that is, to look to their
orignal contradt ; and I do not contribute to
seduce them from their attachment to their state
and from their reliance on its plighted faith.
I wiih net zo fee them deluded into an accept
ance of four per eent. interest from the general,
government of the United States, instead of lix
from their refpe&ive states, which, I believe,
are willing and able to comply with their en
gagements. But, Sir, if I were even an advo
cate for the affumptlon, and for the complicated
funding system, I Ihould vote for the amend
ment, now proposed ; because I think with my j
colleagues, Madison and Giles, and the member
from Maryland, Mercer, that it is not only well
calculated to prevent an improper scramble a
mongst speculators for the supposed 1 enefit of
the bill, but is proper to rel'cue the members of
Congress from temptation as well as irom sus
picion of fpeculatmg on their own laws. I there
fore think, Sir, 1 can honellly and confcienti
ouily vote for the amendment.
Whilst I am up, said Mr. Page, I will take
the liberty of remarking, that those gentlemen
arho ib loudly and warmly replied to the mem
ber from Maryland, and supposed they were
vindicating the honor of the House, in my opi
nion were greatly mistaken : their condu<ft
tended to check free debate and bold inveftiga
tion,and their remarks refpu&ing newspaper
information, might be a dangerous check to
the freedom of the press.
What avails, said he, the declaration of our
conftitution,refpe<fting the freedom, of the press,
if it may be restrained by the condu6t of mem
bers in either House of Congrefa ? And, surely,
it may be restrained by such remarks as have
been so warmly made by members here, mere
ly on a member's stating information in his
place, andrefering to newspapers for further
confirmation ; bold must be t)ie printer, and on
a broad basis of a large fubfeription must he
stand, who can repeat information so leverely
quoted in this House. The honor of the House
can never be vindicated by such expreilions; on
the contrary, they may lead our conftituentsto
suppose, that at least paflions prevail here, and
animosities exist, which ought to have no place
amongst us; and, indeed, such conduct may
tend dire<sMy to produce consequences of a seri
ous nature to members concerned in debate.
(Delate to he continued.)
IVrdnrsdat, January 30.
In committee of the wnole—on the bill to a
mend the ad to promote the progress of ufeful
arts Mr. Steele in the chair.
The motion offered by Mr. White, the pur
port of which —tw amend the firft fe&ion, by
flriking out what fetats to the Dire&or of ther
Mint, and inserting a clause which provides for
the appointment of an officer to be denominated
the Dirc&or of Patents, —was further considered.
Mr. Livermore objecting to the form of the
amendment as indirectly providing for a new
eftablilhment,
Mr. White withdrew his motion, and offered
the following, in substance, in lieu of it.
That an office (hall be cltablifhed for the pur
pose of granting patents, vesting in the authors
of ufeful inventions and discoveries the exclusive
right to their inventions an J discoveries. Said
office to be under the dire&ion of an officer to be
denominated
Mr. Livermore Hiid, !.e TlVed this motion be*
taufe it brought the object dire&ly before the
committee. This otytCl, however, be iifiikcd
it founded like a provision for granting
dollars pet annum ; a found which he wji »).
ways averse to. He was altogether in favour of
devolving the bofinefs ou feme officer alread •
appointedthe Secretary of State he raen:ion
ed as a proper officer to fupei intend this bufincf,"
Mr. Page laid he ffiould not agree to thr J
mendment if hi? thought a fa'ury would be the
consequence. He supposed that provilion R' -h
be made for the officer without recuiriug i 0 j
falaty ; he alluded to fees from she patrntecs
He objected to devolving the bufincl'son the of
(tier of the Mint, or of the Secretary of Su>e
as interfering with the eflentwl duties of those'
officers; and though the gentlemen at prefcot
in those office* are abundantly qualified to exe-
cute the duty, yet it may happen that peif,,ai
may hold those appointment:, at ioine future
time, not qualified for this particular lervkc.
Mr. Murray observed, that the amendment
contemplated, the appointment of vie officer on-
ly, and that to be fixed at the feat of govern
ment. He suggested several confiderotioni io <
favor of inverting the judges of the Diftrift
Courts with the power of granting patents in
the several dates, for the greater accoiuinodj.
tion of the citizens, and the more exteufive en-
couragement of genius.—He was in iav>r of giv
ing greater facility to the ifluing of patents,
than has hitherto been considered as advifabLe.
Mr. White laid he thought the gentleman'*
idea would not do, as patents might beiffued ia
the different partfc or extremes of .the Union for
the fame invention.
Mr. Murray said that he conceived a remedy
for this inconvenience might eafriy l>e devised.
Mr. Boudinot said, that one great obje&ioa
to the present mode of obtaining patent > was,
the great delay and expence Incurred by th« ap.
plicSUits in being obliged to wait till the officer#
now empowered to decide on applications, could
find leisure, from the special duties of their offi
ces, to attend to them.—With reiped to devolv
ing the duty on the Judges, he hoptd that would
not be done; as it wonld be found, judging from
the engagements of the Dillri& Judge of Penn
sylvania, that they could not pofßbly attend to
the business.
Mr. Baldwin obje<fted generally to anv a
mendment which (hould provide for theiuftitu
tion of a new department. His opinion was,
that no offic« fliould be created till there was an
absolute necessity for it.—He entered intoa brief
confidcration of the fubje&, and attempted to
shew that the business might with ease and con
veniency be attended to by some officer already
appointed.
Mr. Williamfon, adverting to the principle!
of the bill, said it was an imitation of the patent
fyftefti of Great Britain ; that the provilionj
were such as would cirtumfcribe the duties of
the deciding officer within very narrow limits;
the fettlemcnt of disputes arising from conteiled
claims, will devolve on referees altogether.—
He was decidedly oppofod to a new
department —expence to the government would
be the inevitable consequence.
The queftiononMr. White's motion was ne
gatived.
Mr. Murray then moved to strike out lf Di
rector of the Mint," and to insert the name of
the Diftrid Judge in which the party applying
for the patent relides. The reason, he observ
ed, which induced him to make this motion
was, the total diflimilarity between the circum
stances of tlii# country and those of Great Bri
tain, where it is thought efiential to have but
one officer to issue patents. That country is one
entire kingdom—-ifluing patents is a pieroga
tive bufinefs —London is one great mart of ge
nius, enter prize and profit; which makes it a
proper center to attraifl every man who mean#
to profit by his inventions. In this country,
there are fifteen governments, sovereign in
thtf mfelves for ccrtain purposes ; the citizens are
generally situated at a great diftante from the
feat of government; the expence and inconve
niency of coming from the remote parts of the
Union, to take out patents, operate as a great
discouragement to men of genius in low or me
dfittn circumllances.—The only obje&ion which
had been urgad against the proportion, is that
arising from conflicting patents being issued.—
This difficulty he thought could be obviated; pa
tents are matters of record ; this would afford
the means of detedlion, but if some partial in
conveniencies ftiould aaife, they would be more
than counterbalanced by the facility afforded to
the citizens to obtain what, in this country,
they have an undoubted right to—the benefits
of their inventions.
Mr. Williamfon offered a few obje&ious to
this motion, the queflion on which being taken,
it was negatived.
On morion of Mr. Sedgwick, " Dire&or ot
the Mint" was ilruck out, and Secretary of Slat*
infer ted. (
Mr. White moved an amendment by way o
proviso, the purport of which is, to preclude t e
inventor of an improvement to a machine fro* l *
using the original invention, or the author o
the original machine from using the improve
ment. This motion, after some oppofit on,was
agreed to.
Mr. Williamfon moved an amendment to the
second feftion, which provides that the requite
oath, or affirmation, may be taken before a jT
Judge of the United States, or of any particular
state, or any person authorized to admim
oath in the place where the applicant relides.-
Agreed to. j
Mr. Williamfon propofetl another amen •
ment, which fliould vest a discretionary
in the officer to dispense with the pr 1
of a model wheu he fliould think proper
, Agreed to.
: The committee proceeded in the difcuffiono
1 the bill, as far as the 7 th feftion -they then role
: and reported progrel's, and the Houie
journed.Monday, February 4.
The petition of George Feachem was read,
praying compensation for supplies furnifhed du
ring the late war—referred to the secretary of
the treasury.
The petition of Timothy Bradley, was read,
and referred to the secretary of the treasury.
This petition is for an adjuilmeut of his ac
counts as a deputy commissary of purchases dur
ing the late war.
The memorial of Rawleigh Downham, was
read, praying a settlement of his account and
payment of a halance due to him for services as
a captain in the 3d Georgia regiment of the late
continental army.
The bill entitled An ad to amend the a£l to
promote the progress, of ufeful arts, was brought
in engrossed, the blanks therein filled up, and
the bill passed. The fee for a patent is set at
thirty dollars; for every copy fheetof 100 words,
twenty cents; for every copy of a drawing two
dollars. The title of the bill was altered to the
following, An ast to promote the progress of ufeful
arts, and to repeal the ail heretofore made for that
tiurpofe.
A report of the secretary of the treasury, on
the petition' of Alexander Contee Hanfon was
read. Mr. Mercer then offered a refolutiun, the
purport of which is, to direift the secretary of
the treafery to adjust and fettle the claim of the
petitioner, as one of the judges appointed by the
geneial government, to fettle a controversy be
tween the State of South Carolina and Georgia,
and that he be paid at the fame rate per diem, as
the members of Congrels, This resolution after
some debate, was referred to afele& committee.
Mr. W. Smith laid the following motions on
the table. First, that a committee be appointed
on the part of the House, to join a committee
„f the Senate, to direct the mode of counting
the ballots for President and Vice-President of
the United States, on Wedncfday next.
The other for the appointment of a commit
tee to prepare and report a bill, fixing the sala
ries of these officers, as the term of the present
provision expires the 4th Mai ch next.
A communication was read from the Secreta
ry of the treasury, containing a statement refer
ring to the last of the rcfolutions brought for
ward by Mr. Giles, relative to the deficiencies
and funis of public money not accounted for—
100 copies was ordered to be printed.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Steele in the
chair, the bill received from the Senate, entitled
An ail refpe<aing fugitive, from juftice,and pcr
fons escaping from the service of matters, was
taken into consideration. This bill was read
through by the chairman, and then discussed
in paragraphs. The committee made one verbal
amendment to the bill, and proceeded thro' the
several fe&ions.
Mr. Moore then moved an anendment to this
purport, That in all cases in which the peilor.s
flieing from the service of matters, (hall be a
negro or mulatto held to labor for life, persons
harboring or concealing such fugitive, {hall pay
a fi lle 0 f dollars : This motion occasioned
tumc debate and was disagreed to, the com
mittee then role and reported the bill with the
amendment, which was agreed to by the house.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, Feb. J.
The bill in favor of Thomas WifWt was
ii feu lied in committee of the whole, Mr. Key
111 the chair, reported without amendment,
and ordered to lie en^i-oifed.
A petition from John Dowries, praying com
pensation for military services, was read and
referred to the Secretary of War.
A committee was appointed to bring in a
bill to fix the salaries of the Piefident and
Vice-Prefidint of the United States, purfuapt
-to the motion t>i Mr- \V. Smith, laid on the
table yeftei day. _ . .
A committee was alio appointed to join a
committee of the Senate, to count the ballots
for Prelident and Vice-President of the Unit
ed States oo Wednesday next.
A bill to exonerate the inhabitants of Pod
Vincennes from the charge of a re-survey ot
their lands, was taken up ill committee of the
whole, Mr. Steele in the chair—tl* bill was
reported without amendment, and ordered to
be engrossed. .
The bill refpefting fugitives from justice,
and persons who escape from the fei vice ot
matters, was read the third time, and palfed
with amendments —ayes 48, noes 7.
The report of a feieft committee on the pe
tition of W. and J. Sims, was t.iken into con
sideration in committee of the whole.—Mr.
Steele in the Chair.—The report was agreed
to, and the House ordered a bill to be brought
in,
The report of the Secretary of the TieafuVy
on the petition of Jacob Bell was alTo conli
dered in committee of the whole ; the com
mittee resolved that the prayer of the peti
tion ought to be granted—this resolution was
agreed to bv the House—and a bill oidered
to be reported.
In committee of the whole On the re
solution for granting half pay * u '' seven
years to the widows and orphans of the offi
cers of the army of the United States, which
have been killed fmce the fourth day of June,
1784, or which may hereafter be killed in the
service.—The committee (truck out June
1784, and reported the resolution with this
Amendment; tlie House agreed to the report.
JThe resolution was further amended, by
striking out •' 7 years"—leaving the term
blank ; a committee was then appointed to
report a bill.
A melfage was received from the Senate,
by Mr. Otis, their Secretary, informing the
House, that they have considered the bill au
thorizing a loan in the notes or certificates of
the leveral States, to which a balance lhall be
due on a final settlement of account* —and
have rtfolved, that they do not concur in said
bill. The Secretary also informed the House,
that the Senate in lift on their amendment to
the bill to regulate claims to invalid pensions,
difaijreod si bv tiie House—md desire a coa
fereiue with the House on the (iibjeel.
Another from the Senate, inform
ed the Houfd Ebat they have concurred In thi
foreign interco'urfe bill—and in the amend
ment of the House to tiie bill refpefllng fugi
tives from juilicir, &c.
A committee of conference -.vas appointed,
conlifting of' MeXrs. Sedgwick, Giles and liju
dinot.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Murray
in the chair—The bill to compenl'ate H. E.
Lutterloh, was taken up—reported without
amendment, and ordered to be engrolled.
A bill 10 coiupentaie Alex. C. H.tnfon, was
twice read, and conimiuuf.
A WUW authorise aiVjoAmcnt of the
cU m of Jgfej.'h Hendcrion, confuicred, in
comniitue of [lie whole—Agreed lu,an.l ordered
io be 1 ngroffed. Adjourned.
Philadelphia, Feb. 6.
Moiul.iv last, theß I! which passed the House
of Representatives of the Uuited States, au
thorizing a Loan of the Balances which fliall
be due on a final Settlement of Acconnts,
from the United State; to individual Srates,
was negatived in the Senate—l 7to 11.
The Supreme Court of the United States
opened on Monday last. Several causes which
involve pojnts of great importance were
called over, and aligned to different days of
the present <veek for argument. Ycfterday
the Court appointed to hear the Attorney-
General of the United States, on the iuterelU
ing question—Whether the Supreme Court
can take cognizance of actions again ft aState,
at the suit of one or more individuals of ano
ther State ?
Further accounts by the French Packet ftafr,
that on the • November, Gen. Durnouner
•rained a compleat victory over the rear guard
of the Austrian army—the day previous to his
entering Bru(Tet6.
The folfpujing oh [ovations of that great avd en
lightened patriot and fiatejman, Mr. Pitt, the
present prime Minijler of C seat-Britain, are wor
thy of the attention of every Jriendto the consti
tution of the United States, and the honor and
Jrcedom of this happy country
The peculiar circumftanccs to which the
National prosperity is ascribed by Mr. Pitt
are, the natural industry and energy of the
country ; the improvements made in many
branches of manfa&ure ; the invention and
application of machinery, by which labour has
been abri Iged, and the great degree of credit
which our merchants are enabled to obtain ;
to these he further adds, the exploring and
enterprifmg spirit of Britons, and the con
stant accumulation of capital, which, contin
ually incteafing at compound interest, ads
with a velocity continually accelerated, an' 3,
in times of tranquility, has scarcely any ii
t> its operation.
" Such are the circumstances which," fays
Mr. Pitt, " appear to me to have contributed
molt immediately to our present prosperity ;
but these again are connected with others yet
more important.
" They are obviously and necelTarily con
nected with the duration of peace ; the con
tinuance of which, 011 a secure and perma
nent footing, must ever be the firft objeift of
the foreign policy of this country. They ale
connected (till more with its internal tran
qui ity, arid with the natural effects of a free
but well rejulated government.
" What is it which has produced, in the
last hundred years, so rapid an advance be
yond what can be traced in any other period
in our history ? What but that, during that
time, under the mild and just Government of
the illustrious Princes of the family now on
the Throne, a general calm has prevailed
through the country, beyond what was ever
before experienced ; and we have also enjoy
ed, in greater purity and perfection, the be
nefit of those original principles of our Con
stitution, which were ascertained and efta
blilhed by the memorable events that closed
the century preceding. This is the great
and governing cause, the operations ot which
has given scope and effect to all the other cir
cuinftances.
" It is the Union of Liberty with Law,
which, by raising a barrier equally firm against
encroachments of power, and the violence of
popular commotion, affords to property its
j nft security, produces the exertion of genius
and labour, the extent and solidity of" credit,
the circulation and increase oi a capital
which forms, and upholds the national cha
racter, and let* in motion all the springs which
actuate the mass of the community through
all its various descriptions.
" The laborious industry of the peasantry
and yeomanry of the country ; the Ikill and
ingenuity of the artificer ; the experiments
and improvements of the wealthy proprietor
of land j the bold speculations and fuccefsful
adventures of the opulent merchant and en
terprising manufacturer ; these are all to be
traced to the fame source, and all derive
from hence both their encouragement and
their reward. On this let
us preserve this firft and moll effeutial okjctf,
and every other is in oiir power ! Let us re
memtvr that the love of the constitution,
though it arts as a fort of natural inftinft in
the hearts of Englilhmen, is strengthened by
reason and reflection : that it is a Constitu
tion which we do not merely admire from
traditional reverence, which we do not flat
ter from prejudice or habit, but which we
cheriili and value, because we know that it
praaically secures the tranquility and wel
fare both of individuals and of the public ; and
provides beyond any other frame of govern
ment, for the real and ufeful ends, which
form at once, the cnlv true foundation and
only rational object of all political Societies-
-287
Extruft of a Ulttr from n gentleman in New-York,
4fited the Ifi oj lebruary, to ha correspondent in
this city. '
44 Three days since, the French Packet,
bearing the Cap of Liberty on her main-top
gallant-inaft head, arrived here after a paU'age
of 6d days. I have been on board the Packet
with a friend who perfe&ly understands the
Flench language, and by whole aid, together
with my own enquiries, I learned, that when
Dumourier took BrulTels, he also took 4000
prisoners, and the next day was joined by
1530 deserters; cannon by hundreds, &c. and
taut the King of Prufiia had declared and ac
knowledged ihe French a free and indepen
dk. it people that he has retired to Berlin,
itnd swears vengeance against the Emigrant
jctyinces for deceiving demanding
reimbursement for his men and expences.—
All Italy, it wasexpefted would fall immedi
ately info the hands of the French—and that
the Pope was a&ualiv a prisoner before the
time of the Packet's failing.—Of theie things
however, we iliall soon be able to rueuUou
further particulars."
A writer in the Albany Register, speaking
of the Constitution of the United States, alks
the following questions :
44 Have you been called upon to discharge
ihe duties of the camp, in a long and tedious
march from New-York to Connecticut ? Have
you been compelled to dance attendance in
the character of jurymen, at the distance of
five or fix hundred miles from you!* homes
and families ? Have you been divested of
the fruits of your labor by the collector ?
Have not the amendments which vociferated
from Georgia to New-Hampftiire, been bro't
forward and received a difpaflionate investi
gation P If this is admitted, then 1 a(k, Whe
ther the opponents of the constitution have
not forfeited every claim to your confidence,
and ought not in future to be watched with
all the vigilafice of an eagle-eyed centinel V'
THE DAY.
IN conformity to a refolut-on entered into
foV the celebration of the vi<ftories obtained
by the Republic of Fiance, over the combined
armies of Aullria and Prussia, the Officers of
the Militia are informed, that the Fefiiv&l
will take place on the 6th of February, (This
DAY) being the anniversary of the alliance
with France, and are requeued to meet at
the state-house, precisely at two o'clock, in
order to march from thence in proceflion.
WILLTAM COATKS,
Chairman of the Committee of Arrangement.
February 2, 1793-
CIVIC FESTIVAL—BOSTON.
THURSDAY, the 24th January, the fuc
ce'lles of the French Republic in their glorious
enter prize foi* the eftabliflunent of Equal Li
berty, "were celebrated by the Citizens of bos
ton with extraordinary demonstrations of
CtHiviv lajrfty and fefti ve joy.
The day was ushered in by a salute of can
noijfrom the Castle, and by discharges of Ar
tillery in several parts of the town. —An Ox,
roasted entire, the preceding day, was paraded
thro' the streets, in the centre of # proceflion
of Citizens. Two carts, containing 1600
loaves of Bread, and two hogsheads of Punch,
drawn by 24 horses, were also in the train—
These articles werediftributed to aninunenfe
number of Citizens aflembled in State street.
At 2 o'clock another proce(! on was formed
at the State-Houfej which marched to Faneuil-
Hall, where an elegant and sumptuous enter
tainment was provided, at which Jpo Citizens
partook.—Citizen S. Adams, Lieut. Governor
of the State, adting as PreJiJenl, and Citizen
Letombe, ConCul cf France, as Vice-Prrjtdcnt.
After the entertainment, 18 t"afts were drank,
accompanied by discharges of cannon.
On this occasion, Faneuil-Hall was as beau
tifully decorated as the season ol the year
would permit. At the well end,over the headof
the President, arofean Obeiifk, bearing in front
the figure of Liberty, her left hand supporting
her insignia, and her extended right band dis
playing " The Rights of Man"—Under her
feet, the badges of Civil and Eccleiiaftical
Despotism (a crown, Iceptre, mitre, & chains)
were brokep in pieces—Over her head, a de
scending Cherub presented in its right hand a
wreath, as " The Reward of Virtue," and in
its left hand, the Palm of Peace—A garter
annexed, emphatically exprelTed, " Thus we
go to the Stars.'' Over tire whole, the benign
Eye of Providence appeared to view with ap
probation the scene, and toexprefs, " I guard
the faithful."—The right fide of the Obelisk
was displayed the American, and on the left the
French Flags. At the entrance, an Orchestra
was ereftcd ; its front exhibited an infeription,
" Sacred to Liberty, Justice and Peace,"
from which arose the figures of Fame, Peace
and Justice : While under this afTemblage the
endearing with of " Liberty and Equality,"
,(Tued for all mankind, the extended Tium
pet of Fame, pronounced a cordial Amen.
The Children from all the Schools were pa
raded in State-street, where each received a
Cake, imprefled with the words " Liberty
• and Equality." . .
A contribution was and the Citizens
confined tor debt, liberated, to participate in
tbe joy of the day.
Two Balloons were let off, one 25 feet high,
bearing a scroll, on which the words " Li
berty and Equality" were written.
The State-House and other buildings were
splendidly illuminated; a number of fire
works were exhibited, and an inimenfe bon
fire on Copps-Hill, concluded the civic feltivs
i'cene.
The great successes of our Atliei were-alfo
celebrated in fcveral of the towns in.tlie
neighborhood of Boltoo—and in Providence,
(R. I.) Norwich (ConncftisuO Portfuvpnth
(N. H.) &c- &c-
The National Convention has pardoned the
inhabitants of Longwy, wl.olc houses were,
by a decree of the JLegiflatiAe Aflembly, to be
pulled down. The city of Verdun is to be
called Beanrepaire, in honor of their late go
vernor, who, when the Auftiians attacked
the town, feeing that the inhabitants wouM
not take up arms in defence of their wall. ;
and his garrison being iitfuliicient, lie alien -
Wed the officers of the distriCt and mumcipa-
Jity, reproached tiiem fur their c.Avit»d>ce ai d
trcacherv j and having to his ntiitcaiy
officers proper difpolitions for e% ac uarrng tl.e
town and citadel, with the gani«•», i.c
clared, that having always l'erved hi*: country
with zeal and honor, he rarher cho c to die
than give room to any contrary iufpicioijs—
and ft»fayin«», he shot jjimfeli ; his brave )o<-
diets made their way through the cne?uy'»
line, carrying with them the coru.e of jfcheir
worthy commander, which the atfembly or
dered to be deposited in the Pantheon. [J-'»r.Pa.J
When it is considered what would be the
fate of a country, (hou'd its patriots deft toy
themselves when unluccefsful —it is difliivrit
to account for the principle on which the lead
ers of the French revolution decreed public
honors to the memory of this man.
We learn from the Kofton papers, that the
appellation of citizen is universally adopting in
that capital, in lieu of 4< your excellency,"
li your honor," or, u your reverence," by
every independent freeman. However pleal
ing it may be to the friends of republican finv»
plicity in the middle and southern Hates, to
fee such notifications in their papers, it must
be nevertheless confelfed that the prcpojnion
comes with rather an ill grace from one or tuo>
the tenor of whole publications has hitnerto
uniformly tended to eftabhlk ariftocratical
diftin&ions in the United States. In every
question of politics, an honest man will take a
decided part, and (lick bv it. Whifflers will
always Aviin with the current ojfuccefs.
Nut. Gaz.
Extraß of a letter front the Eajrwa r *5-
" There ate Come things which Urtßc b»wry
oddly in this part of the Union, in relation to the
proceedingsof the National Legitime. Among
others, it appears lingular that almost all the mo
tions for fciuun zmg and investigating the public
conduct of ihe executive otficets ol government,
should originate with our nrethr. n li• »r*» iltc
Southward. What \ are ail the eastern and nor
thern members asleep—or are they incompetent
to the bufincls ot pioneering into the aicana of
financial arrangements—ol are they !<»•' Uipine
or too er< duious ; or are they intcrejlcd in th«
fyftcms of the Stcietaiy of the Treafaiy to fitch
a degree,as that their undeiltandingsarc becloud
ed, their judgnunts peiveited, and ihe great in
ter efts of their conftuuents loft in the lupenof
influence ol their owil private interelts?
" We have always confidercd that the gen
tlemen from the eaftrin states were at Icolt, -s
much men of induft'y as those from the tout! -
waid ; that their habits of life were as favorable
to attention and applicat-on to bufioeU; that
rhry understood account's, and ctffu'a*
tions, as well; and thai their honor, homily
and independence, are as real, and as cohfpicu
ous as those of gentlemen from any other quar
ter—even from the cicinocratical regions oeyond
the Sufquehaimah. Why then is the nnnienfe
burthen of critical examination and public cri
mination, thrown almost exclusively on (nut hem
Ihoulders ? Our lurprize is lu'thu inereaftil,
when we reflect that as it is Co very «if) to
faults, if the (mailed dtgieeof induftiy is rxerr
ed in fearchirg foi them, and only iht fmallejl
abilities employed in exposing them to the pub
-1 ic eye ; that this meritorious employment fhoulJ
be made a monopoly. We have but one way of
solving ihefe difficulties ; and that ts to luppofc,
that there is no real foundation for all the clamor
that has been raised ; mat Jvme men mull do the
bnfintfs—-while the only bulinefs of others is to
find fault. That in some parts of the Union,
opposition to every meafurc is patriotifro— -while
in otheis, it is expe&ed that evidence should be
given that fix dollars a day are not paid by the
people for nothing; which it seems would be
the cafe, in a great degree, were the politics of
these to prevail who have opposed every impor
tant ipeafure which hat bern brought f "
from the commencement of the government to
the present feflion—and now putfue the fame
fyftcm."
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cer.ti, >o/B
3 per Ccnta, >t/3
Deferred, njio
Full ftiaret Bank TT. S. i 6 per cent. yre«
An annual meeting of the French Society tj
tablifhed in this city for benevolent purpojets to be
held this evening at Epples' Tavern, in Sajfajras-
Jlreet—4H French gentlemen, and others who are in
clined to promotefuch an injlitution, are defiredto at
tend*
Several favors omitted, shall appear in our
nrxt.
Advertisement.
Mr. JOSHUA HARBJS,
St *,
YOU will please to take notice, that I intend
to file a Bill i» the High Court of Chancery,
iu tlac State of Maryland, to compel you to con
vey the following Tracts of LAND, to wit
Harbin'l Let, containing one hundred acrcs of
land ; Ivan's Chance, containing fifty acres of
land; Pine) Grove, containing feveuty-two and
one half acreiof land ; and part of James't trad,
containing tweniy-five acrea ; in the whole, two
hundred and forty-feven and one hall acies ot
land; situate, lying and being, in Montgomery
County, in the State of Maryland ; agreeable to
vour Bond of Conveyance, entered into by v"*
to me the tweniy-fixth day of November, 1781.
X am, with due refpeft, thy friend,
JOSEPH tVANS.
An it ArundelCeunty, State oj Mar)lar.d,
feiruary ifl, 179 a. ICw )7VST PUBLISHED,
By William Young,
BOOKSELLEK,
No. jj, it Second, tht tamer oj Ckejout Street,
lu two Urge o£Uvo volumes, neatly boui«i«
(Price Fou* Dol l«ii)
ESSAYS
ON TB«
INTELLECTUAL cU ACIH'E PCU'LR'i us
M A N.
a*THOMA»RtiD,D.D. *.*.». Edinburgh.
Profelfor ot Mutal Pinloluphy iu ihc Umveility
us Glasgow.
IT would be improper for the publilher to
mention any thing rcfpe£ling the literary ta
lents of an author, so generally kou*« J»d
efteemet). Nor does it appear neeelTarv 10 rc
quell attention lopcrufc a work, wliufc import
ance il univeifatly acknowledged. Those who
hive read thcaiiciißt fyilems and thcfc volumes,
will readily perceive, that the k;iowled»e ot
philosophy, advancca from a Hate of lnlancy,
towaida maturity : »or will it appear 100 much,
when itia faid.ihat Dr. Reid hasdivtftrd moral
science from ihat veil under which for so many
aiea, it has been concealed, by amb.Ru.ms words
and the jargon ot the fchoals. Thni he liasa&ed
that friendly part to moral science, which the
ingenioua Newton and Fergufon did to natural
philosophy ; their united and (k-ilful efforts, ren
der philosophy not only an ufelul, but a pleasant
cxeicife, and a mote fate ii.trodufiton to the
taoil important ftudies.—lt is impracticable to
insert the lengthy reviewa of ibu woik, and to
jrjve a part, would be unfriendly to the author
ami reviewers.
ALSO,
Neatly bound, in two volumesodavo,
Price uve and a halj Dollar s
A COMMENTARY
ON THE
BOOK ok PS AL Mi ,
IN which tbt ir literal or historical sense, as
they relate to King D.ivid, and the Peopl« of
Israel, it tlluftrated, and their application to
Mefliah, to the Chuich, and to individuals, as
members thereof, is pointed out; with a view
to render the ofe of the Psalter plcafiug a»d pro-
Stable to all orders and degrees of"Chriftians.
The firjt American Edition fioin the 4th Brittjh.
BvGioroe, Lord Bishop of Norwich, and
I'rcfidcm of Magdalen College, Oxford.
ALSO,
immERMANNon SOLITUDE,
Price 7-8 Dollar.
ALIO,
SCOTT's FORCE Of TRUTH,
Pi ice, bound and lettered, 44-100 Dollar.
JuJl come to handy
DAVIES' SERMONS,
Complete in 3 volumes octavo,
Price, bound, 5 25-100 Dollar,
Jan. 26.
BY the Commiflinners appointed to prepare
the Public Buildings, See. within the City
of Wafhingion, for the reception of Congress
and for their permanent refidcnce after the year
1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars,arc 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
1 Superb Hotel, with baths,)
out houfps, &c.&c.to cost
1 Calh Prize
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 <}itlo
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
5,000 are
1,000
500
iOO
5°
2 .5
20
10
16,737
33,263 Blinks
50,000
The sole aefign of this Lottery being to facili
tate other improvements together with the Public
Buildings—it is the particular desire of the Com
miflioners that these may be eife&ed with as
few dedu&ions from the Prizes as poflible—how
far their endeavors may be anfwercd, the Scheme
of the Lottery will demonftnte. The keys of
the Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to
the lortunate poffeflor of the ticket drawn a
agaioft its number.
All the other prizes will be paid, without
deduflion, in one month, after the d< awing, by
tfie City Treasurer at Waihington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9ih of Sepicmbci next, at the City of "Washing
ton.
Tickets itwv be had of Col. Wm. Citv
Treasurer of Washington ; of McflVs. James IVeJI
& Co. Baliimore ; ol Mr. Peter Oilman, Boston ;
and at such other places as will be hereafter
published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the belt Plan of an elegant and. con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if prcfented
§n or bejore the 10ih t>J April next; and a pre
ference will be siven to the Artist for a Cou
traft, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses arc to be ere&ed, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the (tables, &c. Sc&ions and
ffti mates of the expen-Te will be expe&ed
with the elevations. See. complcat ; and 50,000
dollars mu<tl)C regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the expense intended for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
Januat) 15.
By Thomas Dobfon,
EcvWdUr t at the Stone- Hovfe y in Second Jlrett t
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
on, A DICTIONARY of ARTS, .SCIENCES,
AND
* MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely nea) •
by which
THE DIFFERENT SCIENCES AND ARTS
arc duelled into the Form of Diftind t
TREATISES OK SYSTEMS :
COMPKEHENDI NO
THE Hidory, Theory < and Prafticc, of each,
according to the Latcft Discoveries and im
provements : and lull Explanations given of the
vai tous detached pans of Knowledge. whether
relating to Natural and Artificial Obje&s, or to
Matreis Eccltliaitical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, &c. lutluding Elucidations of the inoft iro
pouant 'lopics relative to Religion,Morals,Man
ners, and the Oecouomv of Life : together with
a D( fcription of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains, SeaS, Riveis, &c. throughout
the World ; a General Hiftoty, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empires, Kingdoms,
and States; and an account of the Lives of the
mofl Eminent Persons in every Nation, from the
cariieit ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings f>f the befl author.*, in
feveial Languages ; the moil approved Dictiona
ries, as well of General Science as of particular
branches; the Tranfa&ions, Journals, and Me
moir® of the learned societies, both at home and
abroad—the MS. Ic&ures of eminent profeffors
on different Scirnces : and a variety of original
Materials, furnirtied by an extensive Correfpon-
dence.
The Seventh Volume contains a dcfcription
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Expe
rimental Philofopliy, Svftein of Farriery, Feudal
fyftcm, Fire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Folfils, history of France, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Glass,
See. with a variety of articles in natural history,
biography and miscellanies. Illustrated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfinc paper,
and new types, (cattfor the putpofe) which
will he occasionally renewed before they cou
tratt a woin appearance.
11. The work is furnifhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as subscribers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the priceofone
volume to be paid in advance, and the pi ice of
each succeeding volume to be paid 011 deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unlef* paid for.
111. In the couife of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
lar excecd in numberlhofe given in any other
lcientific di&ionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes.
It is expe&ed the woik will be compiifed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
(JdT Those who wilh to become pofTe(Tors of
thisvaluable work will please to be early in their
applications, as the fubfeription is nearly cloftd.
Jan. 23.
£0,000
HAVING been desired to establish a poft
road from Reading, in the state of Perin
fylvania, to Williamfburg, at the Great Forks of
the Genefce river, Notice is hereby given, that
proposals will be received at the General Post-
Office, for carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Williamfburg aforeiaid, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading and the town of
Northumberland ; irom the latter place to Loyal
Sock, creek ; thence to Lycoming creek ; thence
in the new road to the Painted Poll, on Tioga
river; arid thence to Williamfburg.
The p«opofals will be received until the 15th
of March next, inclusively; the carriage of the
mail to commence within one month after-
25,000
20,000
15,00°
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10.000
10,000
10,000
20,000
150,000
Dollars 350^600
wards,
Neccflary Poft-Offices are to be eftablilhed on
the route, and such peifons appointed Poft
maftcrs as the Contra&or shall name, and the
Poftmaftei-General approve.
Within three months after the carriage of this
mail is commenced, the Contrattor is to state to
the Poftmaftcr-General the da\s and hours of its
arrival and departure at and from the principal
Poll-offices, which experience (hall prove to be
most convenient ; and thereafter the mail is to
be delivered at the refpe&ive Poft-offices at the
hours so fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted,
on penalty of one dollar for each hour's delay ;
and for the non-performance of a trip, the Con
tractor to forfeit tweuty dollars.
The term of the contrail cannot exceed eight
years. During its continuance the Contra£lor is
to receive the rates of postage by law eftablilhed,
and to have the exclusive privilege of carrying
letters and packets:for hite, such excepted, as
fhzll be sent by a special messenger, or which are
or shall be by law declared Free.
THE Officers of the late New-Jeifey line arc
requested to meet ai thehoufe of James
Drake, in New-Brunfwick, on Thuffday'the
seventh day ol February next, at the hour of Ten
in the morning, to take into conUderation the
application of different lines ot the late army,
now before the Congress of the United States.
JOHN CUMMING,"
JONATHAN RHEA.
January 16th, 17.93.
A large Cellar to Let,
Sujicicntly capacious to Jiorc jtvcral hmdrtd boncL
•JUST PUBLISHED,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VII, or
A New Post-Road.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P.M.G,
General Pojl-Officc, fan. 22, 1793.
Jinquire of the P&INTUR
-288-
Insurance Company.
A T * general mecring (by °/
A the Insurance Company <>f North-America,
oo Wednesday the i6ih lultani,
It was Resolved, <• .
THAT the lulUlmenU which, accor g
the Conftiutnon, will b.come duo o. '«c°nd
Monday of July »»d JanuH.y nex. or eun o
then, .nay be pa.d by any *° c * ho1 ?"
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so pa>.n,
luch instalment. Of lnlWlmems (hall rece ' ve
proportionate lhare ol the Dividend,
"o be made, calculating luch (hare from the hrlt
day of the month fucceedtng lucn payment! le
fpeftivcly. Ex.ratt ftmn the Minutes,
KtfEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelph a, Jan. 23.
BANK OFTHE UNITED STJTES
R ESOL V ED,
THAT the Cashier be authnrifed to receive
from the proprietor of any number of corn
pleat (hares, such Conficales, not in hi!i own
name, as he tnay be the proprietor of; and after
cancelling the fame, to iflue a new Certificate or
Certificate* in lieu ifureof, in the name of such
pr llesTlv ED, That in all future transfers of
compleat (hares i» tlie capital (took of the Bank,
the Certificates of the transferred be can
celled, and a new Certificme or Certificates be
! Jued in the name of the transferee or purchaser.
Risolvkd, That the Certificates in futuic
Mined, be foi one or more lhaies, as the pro
prietor may rcquell; and the new Certificate or
Certificates (hall be of eorrefpondent numbers
with those in lieu of which ihev arc iflued.
epgw JOHN KEAN, Calhicr.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
Philadelphia, January 7, 279,3.
NOTICE is hereby; given, that there will be
paid at the Bank, after the 17th instant, to
the Stockholders or their Representative# <!uly
authorized, the following sums, being the Divi
dend declared for the lail fix months, viz.
For each flwre bearing dividend from the lft
of July, Sixteen Dollars.
For each (hare bearing dividend from the lft
of August, Filteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
For each fliare bearing dividend from the lft
of September, Fourteen Dollars, 67 Cents.
For each (hare bearing dividend trom the lft
of O&obrr, Fourteen Dollars.
For each (hare bearing dividend from the lft
of November, Thirteen Dollars, 33 Cents
For each (hare bearing dividend irom the lft
of Deceiubcr, Twelve Dollars, 67 Cents.
For each three-quarter Ihare, Twelve Dollars.
By order of the President and Dire&ors,
gw JOHNKF.AN, Caftiier.
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR sale» a beautiful fituatiou on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of dire£lion towards the Federal
City and GeorgeTown,in full view ol each ulace,
commanding a profpeft of the river and adjacent
country ol Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying di
rectly on the nvcr, will be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-story framed
dwelling-house, neatly finifbed, a kitchen, office,
buck finoke-houfe and dairy, two-story framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ice*
house, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
ceirarv improvements ; the whole of the land
enclofcd with posts and rails, tenor fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its
contiguity to those thiee towns mud render it an
object worthy the attention of any person who
wilhes to invest money in a property that must
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in.
creese of the 'Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Towu. This property lies nearly in a
central inuation to each place. The Potowinack
at this I pot "lias a fine deep Ihore and harboui,
capable of receiving vcllels of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be crested here to the Citv of
Washington and the Maryland (hor*f. lending to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.—Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which will suit well to supply the above in
wood and limber. The title may be seen to the
above property, which is indisputable, and terms
known by application to the fubfciiber, living
on the pretliifes.
December 12 th y 1792
50 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 25th instant, a likely Ne
gro Man called Isaac, about twenty-three
yeais oid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made fellow, loud of talking, has a lafge
mouth, and (bows his teeth very much when
talking ; had on when he went away,, a brown
linen shirt, a Ihort white kersey ovei jacket with
a very high collar and plain breast, with buttons
which appear to have been very gay ; a pair of
white kersey breeches, a pair of white knit vain
stockings, a pair of fhocs wiih firings in them,
and a coaife hat ; all the above clothes are al
most new. Said Negro was fpimuly the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas, late of Kent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, de
ceafid, and has for several years been employed
in that neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by Messrs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, which bulinefs he is
well acquainted with, and is what he prefeis ;
and has been engaged in driving a waggon from
laid Cross-Roads to Duck-Cre<*k, &c. until
August last. I expett he will moke his way for
the neighbourhoods of Georgt-Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will be paid if delivered to me in this
place, or Thirty Dollars if fecqred in any goal,
so that I get him again. He is an aitful fellow,
and when taken, will make his escape, unleis
parti.ubrly secured.
E/hton, OWEN KENNARD
TalloiCounty, Maryland, Dec. 28, 1792. tn
.Federal City.
TilE Subscriber will convev fo rtT(
Rood aid fufticientdeed, Thirtvl ! .
the City of Walhiiigton, lituatcd on T '?
Capitol Street, to any ...an or io nip
men— ; >rovidttl they .will agree to erect
on good ami lufficient brick Jumfe, '*, re "
three years t'rom the date hereof. ' 1
r I~'HE Subscribers having hccn «ppoi ntf i,
X cpmrnuitcol ihc «»f ihr Tn //,, ,
the Utnverfii y of NtMlh-Carolhia, l ur ,h t 7 °
pott* of receiving propoUlg fiorn such j, iiilco"'"
as may imend to undertake the ii.lli
youth id th.it litttituiitin, take the opp<,
of making known to the public th. ir wilh ,u'"
such gentlemen fiiould ligntly their lu*li ua ,
lo 'lie fuMcnbcis.
The objects to which it is coiitemnlji.rt k .
the Board 10 tuin the autiilton ot the ftml U J
on ttic firft iftablifiimtni, arc—The itudy (
Languages, particularly the- Kn ft lilh-HiR °
ancient and modern—the Bclle-leitres— Lo.li
and Moral Philosophy—the knowledge 0 f J,
Mathematics and Naitital Philolophy— Ajjrici, 1°
ture and Botany, with the principles of
tedfure.
Gentlemen convcrfant in these brancht, of
Scieocc »"d Literature, and who can he well re
commended, will receivc very handsome <ncou.
rigrmenl by the Boaid. The exercifu of lh«
i>l ilii ulion will comincncc as early ai poffibli
after the cnrnoleiion of the buildingi of the Dili,
verfny, which are to be c"nrrjtW | or i ranK J*
ately. SAMUEL ASHE,
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or betwren Providenrfc
and Boilon, a very (mall TRUNK, coveicd
wilh ieal-(kin of a reddifa colour, with white
fpols. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Carolina State Notes, and a few of the
State of Rhode-! flan d ; with other papers,which
can only be f.i viceablc to the uroprietor. T/»c
State notes are ch: eked at the offict s from whence
theyiflued. Any person prod «c\r» theTtuolt
(with its contents) to JOHN MARSTON, of
Boston, WILLIAM HALL, of Providence,
Mcifrs. PATfcRSON and BRASHfcR, New-
York, cr Mr. SAMULL EMERY, in PhiladiU
phi*, shall receive the above reward, or ioi any
part of the prwpertv, One Hundred Dalian,
BALDWIN DADE
ep 2 m
DANIEL CARROLL, clD^ddi 01t .
tty of Hujkingtta, Du. ji. . ;g)i .
To the Public.
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAYE,
DAVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLCS.
D 25 ep-sm
Button, Nov. 28.
BOWEN's EXHIBITIONS OF
Wax-W ork&Paintings,
ARE open every day and evening (Sundays
excepted) at the Houle lately occupied
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eighth-llrecr.
First Room—Contains upwards of 109
elegant Paintings, and about 30 V/ax Figures,
in full stature—among which are LiVenefi**
of- a number of the principal characters in
America; Baron Trenck in chains, an Indian
Chief, and several beautiful young Ladies of
different States, die. See.
Second Room—Contains eighteen - large
Wax Figures, whit# form a Soci»sie Cmi,
or the Oyster Suppkr j and the School f«r
Scandal, consisting of twelve female Figures,
making their observations on a young Litiy,
who had eloped with a Footman.
Admittance Oni Quarter of t DtlUr e«rt
Room.
Philadelphia, January 9,1793.
Mathew Carey
Refpe&fully informs the Citizens of the United
States, that the Maps lor his intended
cditionof
Guthrie's Geography
I M PRO V fc D,
Arc now engraving—ami as soon as a fumcienC
number of ihem are finiQied, to secure a re
gular supply during the publication, whick
will probably be early next Spring, the woik
will be put to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpettable number of Suhfcnbers, who have
come forward thus early to panonize this ardu
ous undertaking. He allures them and the pub
lic in general, thai no pains or expense lbail.be
spared in the execution of thr work.
Terms of the Work :
I. IT fhallbe published in
each containing thiee (beets, or twenty-lour
pages, of letter press, in quarto, piinud with
new tyoes'on fine papei.
11. In the courfeof the work will be deliver
ed about thirty large maps, of the tame size a *
thofein the European editions, viz. moltofthcDi
sheet maps on port paper.
Bejides the maps in the Britijh editions, thu
work will contain nine or ten American Slate Maps.
111. The price of each number will be a
quarter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance required.
IV. Subscribers who ilifapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbers, are
to be at liberty to return them, and Ihall have
their moo« repaid. c .
V. The lubl'cnbets' names (hall be prehxea.
as patrons of the undertaking.
* # * Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publisher ; in New-York, 9) a
the bookfcllers ; in New-Haven, by M».
in Hartford, by Mr. Patten; in lk>ftoti,by W« •
Thomas & Andrews, and by Mr. Welt; ui
timo.e, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond, bv* •
J. Carey; in Charleftcm, by Mr. W. P. 0 '
and by fundi y other persons throug o"
Unued State,. (i.w«o
£3- The trice of this Gazelle is Three />»'<"£
per annv.m—Onc k«f to be ftii 'I """ '»■
fcribin^.