'
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH F/FTH-StREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 80 of Vol. IV.]
THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVID
STUART,Sc DANIEL CARROLL,
Esquires,
Commission ers appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, See, within the
City of IVaJhington, lor ibe reception of COll
- and for iheir permanent reiidcrice after
the year 1800—
A LOTTEPvY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,0 c© Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollar".
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
2 Superb Hotel, with baths, )
out' houses, occ.&c, to cod )
f C«ft» P."^e
1.
t
ditto
*.6 di«Xo
"odi'tto
" fOO $Uo'
COO ditto
ditto
f,o©o d4tm
15,000 ditto
5,oo« at*
i,ooo>
4?4
" too
50 ~
2 5
ao
io
*6,737 Prizes
J3. 63 Blanks
$0,000
Bv this fchem? at ( ItaA tbc amount of the tick
ets will return fortunate adventurers, and
•yet the fedcial City will, gain its objcft thereby,,
in a magnificent building defined both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expence mud neceflarily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
having agreed to prefcnt in
turn a fufficient quantity of excellent free-ftone,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may. be fairly rated at Jomtthxng more than
jtdr: In this important inllance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public io this, or
perhaps iri any other country. The keys of th>
Kottl, when rnmplcat, wil] he delivered to the
fortunate poflVffor of the ticket drawn aagainrt
its number.-*- Ail thd other prizes' will be paid,
without dciuflion+in one month kftcrthc drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Washington, or at such
feank or Baoks as may be hereafter announced,
for theconveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Mondav the
9th of Septeinbei next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. Win. Dickens, City
Treasurer of Washington ; Thaxer & Bart<'e/, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Gideon Denifon, Sa
vannah; MelTrs. James Wefl & Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Oilman, Boston ; and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the best Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if presented
pn or before the jclth »f April next; and a pre
ference will be given-in the Artist for a Con
trad, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and houses are to be ercfted, will
ke a corner lot of abotii 90 by* 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, &c. Se£lions and
eiltmatet of the expense will be expefled
with the elevation. Sec. cornpleat ; and 50,00 o
dollars must be Regarded by the Architect as the
«most limit in the expense int<nded tor this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the the City
Ufrch 6, 1793.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES
CRITIQUES
On the ODE of the Hon. J. 5, Esq.
THE Hon. J. S. Esq. having finiftied his
reading, fat down. The Chairman quef l
lioned, 44 have heard the Hon.
Members Ode,have you any remarks to make
on it !" The Hon. j. N. rose— 4< I move,fir,
that the firft twenty lines' or so, be re-read,
and that we then proceed to make criticisms
on it." 44 No—Mr. Chairman, the Hon.
A. J. D.) I think that unneceflary ; the gen
tleman has read it to admiration, fiis voice
%vas uncommonly audible—l verily believe
extended three quarters' of a mile. I pro
ceed to oblerve that, in the Ode kind, I scarce
remember to have read any thing equal to it
♦—We know fir, among the ancients, it was
* law tf ufagc, to address the rul ng Deity, or
tl»e one whom the poer supposed to be his
guardian ; to this preceiitru the Hon. gentle
man was attentive, and has a&ed accordingly.
He fuppoics his genius, to be something di
vine or human, bird or beast, or perhaps all
four, and as an evidence that birds are not
wanting irr sagacity, he brin?* the infta*»ce of
the Ho nan goose—l remember, fir, that the
great Lyric Poer,, the Thcban Pindar, in his
%rft Olympic Ode, inferibed to Hiero, of Sy-
U+% with wonderful art praised. water
as being better than taint} and I suppose he
would add, than ftrong-becr, punch, grog, or
any other liquor ; but notwithstanding that po
et's unparalcllcd I think the Hon. gentle
man has fairly out-pindar'd him. For the
Goose, we all know, lxath long been held in
contempt ; and although this particular fnf
ltance is in the gentleman's favor, yet it re
quireth astonishing labor to make any thing
of a Goose, and, in my way of thinking, the
gentleman hath so perfectly and with so muctl
acutenefs of understanding, raised the great
qualities of this bird up to admiration, and to
a level with his own exalted genius, that he
may be said to have far excelled the ancient
poet. I feel myfelf in honor bound thus pub
licly to pay my mite of applause to the in%rni~.
cus author ; and I must confefV, as he hath so
eminently dignrfied the sagacity of the
1 more willingly subscribe to his opinion that
msn may be made a poet—lndeed every line
by which the Hon. gentleman has extolled that
Gvofe, (by Which I <uppofe he means his genius)
compels me to embrace his translation of Ho
race's text, given at our former meeting.'*
Hon. J. S. rose a»rd fz-Jdy 44 Sir, f am very
deeply indebted to the Hon. gentleman for
the praise which he has been pleased to bestow ,
on me—Bwt to be candid, as friends lTiould
be, I really fear the gentleman means flatte- j
ry, when he fays I'otic-Pindar the vnpardleiled (
Pindan—However that may be, the gentle- ,
ihan well obferveth, that it is a difficult mat
ter to raise the'fame of the Goofe t s*horn man
kind have so fhamefulfy degraded—But' 'tis
with me a confirmed and eftablilhed belief,
that within the com pass oj this 7 evolving Oib on
which I now stand, from the getting up of the
all-imparting fun to his place of going to bed,
there is not an animal who, in particular faga
citie* eqtlak the Goose, (bye the way wild gee/e
are wiser than tame ones) —and although I did
not immediately address the Goose as my geni
us, yet I think I in part derived my. conning
from that animal, as well as from J'atly"*—
Here the Hon. J. N. questioned—' u I suppose,
fir, you mean the wild goose ?" Oh ! yes !—
yes, yes ; replied the Hon. poet, and contnu
ed—u Gentleman* I have no doubt but you
have been filled with admiration to an higher
degree, in contemplating some other parts of
my ode- TJ»e idea off iW-paeM
ing in the mire—>l think peculiarly poetical
and happily exprelTed, as is also that of Fancy
pricking our robs"—The Hon. Poet was again
interrupted by the Hon. J.N. who, looking
over the Ode as it lay on the table, cried out,
%i Got the feat for ! pray what do you
mean fir ? Who got the feat for you, did'nt
I help ? I'm sure you're very ungrateful not
to mention W, did'nt I help?" At this in
ftatit the contagion spread itfelf through the
bread of every member, even the Chairman
himfelf, and the study ruttg with the cry of,
44 Ah ! ungrateful! I help'd—r help'd-—I
help'd—This uproar continued, in defiance ot
all the efforts which the Hon. J. R. made to
restore order, for the purpose of explaining —
For although the Dolor's voice could be dis
tinguished from all others, yet as he joined
the cry of u I help'd, I help'd"—and used
his bung-driver to produce noise instead of
silence, the Hon. J. S. found it impolfible to
obtain order, until the throats of the gentle
men became dry, by their great exertions,and
required something to moisten them, which
the Hon. Poet perceiving, he apologized, and
and ordered some clariet—-When five
bottles were emptied, the Hon. J S—
rose u Gentlemen had you fuffer'd me
to explain, you would not have charged
mc with ingratitude ; on a more attentive in
fpeftion you will fee that 1 have inserted
what our Jriend Jinimy O—s told me, the
morning after my eleftion—lft that congra
tulation he fays we, and I have marked it for
itaTick—ln that «*, gentlemen you are all in
cluded—Yet you must know that not ycu only,
but one of my genius's was also very service*
able in helping me to the feat. This genius
was DiEmulation, or Fafehood, or any similar
being—Had I not been aided by ker or him> in
complying with vulgar prejudices, and feigning
honesty and patriotism, I lhould not have ob
tained' m* present honorable ftation —You
will likewise perceive that I hare prayed far
a continuation of her or his support, and as
/he or he has hitherto preserved me, I hope for
her or his future aid.*' The Hon. J. N. role—
44 Mr. Chairman, I wish to apologize, I ani
afaamed of my conduct, I did'nt fee that the
worthy gentleman had remembered us—-but I
was mistaken, and I hope he'll pardon me—-
I allow the gentleman likewise to be '111 the
light, and judicious in his prayer to his de
ttiful genius, far really'fi'<y ludicrous are the mo
-1 de»n notions of our people in this town, that
he and all of a* must seek this comforter and
assistant." The Hon. A. J. D. then spoke—
u Sir, our Hon. friend has apologized for us
all* and I (hall proceed to remark, that the
simile of the gentleman's blo-id creeping thro*
his veins like an eel, and then working like
bottled beer, and driving out the corks that
stop the fountains of infpirarion, are admira
ble. He has here displayed a skill in the art
of climax, which I think unparalelled. Virgil
indeed, in hi 3 story of Dido's grief for *he loss
50,OO?»
25.000
20,000
15,000
10,000
10,000
10, op*
t Oj,Q£>d_
*9600
Ib.oocr
10,000
■^ojooo
15*0,000
Dollars 350,00©
Wednesday, March 6. 1793.
317
ofuSneas, made some good fimilie'! antl
climaxes to exprefs-the greatness of the pafli
on with which the mind labored, but in all
the twelve books of the iEneid, there is not
one palTage which can stand a comparison with
that in the ode before ns—By the manner in
which the poet, our Hon. friend rises, and the
spirited apoftrophc— u Now, Thomas, listen
now, for now my Ode," &rc. 'tis evident his
prayer had succeeded, and his fountainsof iiv
fpiration were all completely uncorked—<t-A* I
view the various beauties of this Ode, J, fir,
feel myfelf inspired. But how shall I find lan
guage to flafli upon your minds, the bold, dar
ing, extravagantly sublime beauty of the si
mile in the sixty-ninth and seventieth lines,
<vhere the Hon. Poet fays, his ode ihall ru&
abroad—
44 Ltttd as o'er the wall,
" The mill-pond waters rearing, Jloundering /aft.*'
Sir lam loft in contemplation of it—l can
not go on—l mult fit down."—The Hon. au
thor then lifing laid—" Mr. Chairman, my
honorable and elteemed friend, ha? this even'
ing fully compjnfated me for the clifagi eeable
er.'.otions which he excited in thy bosom at
our former meeting. He ha-! done me the
highest justice, he has spoken with all the ar
dor of jtncerity and his observations are exact
ly fimilai to my own, during the period ot my
composing my ode.—But fir, there is one rruth
which candor obliges me to confefs to you.—
My violent exertions in producing that last
simile, of the mill-pond waters, by which my
Hon. friend has been overwhelm'd, were so
exhausting, in fact so entirely fuhverfivo of
the laws of nature, that on the moment of
my giving the last stroke of my pen to the
line, my left hand seized its brother ear, my
right hand was fixed, my body motionless, and
at bottom rooted to my chair ; and for near,
ly one hour, I fancied myfelf a tea-put, filled
with fcakling water."—These words dift'ufed
over the countenance of the chairman a broad
stare of dilbelief, which, the poet observing,
he said, " However this relation may appear,
'tis free from poetical iiftion, 'tis literally
true —and I account Tor this belief, partly by
the perturbation of my mind, and partly by
the excelfive heat of my blood, which bring
ing into my recollection hot water, and that
HifcioJ ofen contained in rea-pots, canfed the
completion of my deception. The Chairman
said, he had in the course of his pra&ice, met
with inft'ances of a similar nature, and that
the gentleman traced the caute from the tf
feft, with much acutenefs and penetration,
aud although for a moment he doubted the
fad, he was now very well convinced of its
truth—" indeed (added he) I myfelf, being
one day greatly exasperated by the neplect of
my butcher, in omitting to fend home lome
beef-ftaaks, imagined myfelfa bull-dog & went
up to the market for thepurpofe of tearing the
butchet to pieces; but feeing his bull-dog un
der his fliamble, and believing him larger than
myfelf, I was deterred from executing my
intention, and so sneaked off' home. The
Hon. A. J. D. said—" For my part I do
not doubt theveracity of my Hon. friends—
Both cases I think more than probable. But
to pursue our critiques. I admire the noble
and apostrophizing (pirit with which our poet
breaks out into, "Hark! hark! Tom! &c.
but I think he has not shewn fufficient ref
peft towards us, his si ienils, when he fays—
" but still our G—v—n—r tboufhalt remain,
as long as / thy smile and nod can gain."—»
And I also think he has not exhibited a proper
refpeet to his Hon. fri«nd JVJr. G—l——ll
when he promifes/oUly and alone, to cram the
countrymen's gullets with his bank fchetne ;
I mention not these things as objections to
his poerry, for I call that exquisite, particu
larly the metaphor, of cramming the coun
trymen* gullets,, as they do Tuikev-cocks,
Geese and such like animals; but there seems
a want ofgenerofity, he does not allow us and
his friend ar»v merit —If I am wrong the gen
tleman will pteafe to set me right. 1 ' The
Hon. poet stood up, " Mr. Chairman, 1 rife
to explain ; I mean no difrefpeft to any one
of my friends. In that, /, to which my friend
objects ve are all included. 1, is intended to
stand for we—in the fame manner as when
General Dnmpurierteils the French Afleniblv,
I did To and fy—X obtained such a victory—
meaning all the while lit and his /oldttts ; so
by this, J, you may understand, / and my
friends; my fellow-laborer in the A ——I-—y
is also included in the parts objected to ; but
jn.y duty to myfelf calls on me to afl'ure you,
tlui't if the new bank i- cftablifhed, our majler
will be more indebted to me than to all others,
1 have whispered into the ears of some coun
try membe s, that this Bank will lelfen the
expences of government, by supplying the
places of the T—f—r, C—mp—1—r and
R g general, and prevent that fySem
of peculation which has hitherto exiftcd."—
Her? the Hon. gentleman was interrupted by
- a loud thumping of a cane on the fioor, ar.d a
d eadful cry of" What! What do you mean,
Sir?'' Turning round, in terror, he beheid
his Hon. friend J. N. brandiCiing his cudgel
over his head, and with the wild *i jge of a
madman crying " What ? Wliat do yoy mean
Sir 2" L ; ftini hifii m over !»i% lfe;d, way r
[Whole No. 402.]
ofdefence, he petitioned, " pray be calm for
one moment iir, and I will explain a)) t» yonr
latisfa&.on explain, explain then," roaiil
the enraged gentleman—" well, fir ( ep'ied
the noet) von know it was necelfsry fur »s
to establish this Bank, and beilig so, we aie
juftibed in iWf i means sue may I lip for obtNin
ing it. 1 uled tjnt'e arguments in privMt, on
ly by way of a take in. I ahvivs intend«d to
do my best to, keep yiw, my worthy friend,
where you are,* and fir, J never charged
with peculation. I know you a you hut 9
to fee theftate's colfei s lightened, in (hort,li'«
you are my friend. Th«p explanation will, f
hope fatisfy you—l appeal to you my fViends,
onght not our honorable friend to be fatisfied
with my explanation J," They all replied
" Aye" and the Hon. J. N. said he was " con
tent" and fat down ; " I am sorry, pursued
the poet, to have cau ed so much uneafinefsj
and to prevent any further differences, be
fore I fit down, I willremark, in line 110, I
have again used the jingvlar pronoun, A in tbe
fame line I had before employed the pronoun,
tify, meaning i«, and £ hole., 77, or J will;
merely fnr var tcti-, Ibr be alluTed I mean we'll
I believe fir, we have now gone through with
my Ode, and I with the fenle of my friends
taken on it, in these words, " Is ivtr. J- S'.
Ode a good one, and fit to appear t.efo'e oiif
worthy friend the G——i >" Tlie Cbairn.arj
then qneftioned, " Do you to !V!r. S'«
motion ? and there being no negative, he put
the qneftion in the words of the Kon. J. S«
and it was Carried in the affirmative by a
unanimous vote.
* In the ukrnth of difourjf a truth hadefafU
the Hon. poets hps. and such a truth as he Jul »ot
intend to have he is therefore urdtr the ve±
cejit) oj telling a lie It h/ance l/.at truth and ft
soothe his enraged friend.
P A H I S, December 23.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
December Jt.
TRIAL OF LOUIS Xyi.
VERGNIAUI), in a mofl eloquent speech,
deprecated tlie condemnation of" Lool*
by the Convention. '' What ICCmi rv have
we, (laid he) that those who how alcribe ail
the cafaistitics of the nation, all the distresses
of the people to L»uis, w ll not, after h'n
death, impute them all to the Convention ?
What security have we that they will not tei!
the people, that they have only changed one
tyrant for another, that the calamities of
war, increaled by the accession of England ai>d
of Spain, are imputable to the Convention,
who, to gi atify their iuii of revenge, con
demned Louis to death ; that the Indigence
of the people and the want of energy ■ m t!.e
government, are all imputable tn the Convcn.
tion ?—What security have \re that thfel'e
clamors of turbulence and anatchy may not
effect an union of the ariftoeracv, thirsting
for vengeance ; of misery, of change 1
of pity, which the fate of Louis will infpi e !
What security have we that, from among the
Judges of the 2d of September, will not appear
the Chief so much desired ? This Chief, CitU
zens,—ah ! let him appear, it will be but to
fall beneath a thousand wounds. But what
will become of Paris amid these new tempefft
—of Paris, whole courage against Kings pop.
terity will admire, and will not believe t»!at
this city has fuffered a liorde of bar ditti in its
bosom, to agitate and rend it to pieces by con*
vullive movements» And you, industrious ci
tizens ! who have operated tlie revolution;
you, whose facrifices are every day mulripli*d
by the necefiities of your com try, what wilj
become of you ? What resources will you
have ! What hand will dry vour tear , who
will comfort yonr families ? Will von apply
to your pretended friends ! Ah ! fly them
rather ; I will tell you their answer : When
you alk them for bread, they will fay, ' Go to
the quarried, and ravilh from the earth thole
bloody fragments which We have heaped up
in them. Would you have dead carca es and
blood? There they are—There, Citizens, it
the nourishment they offer you."
He concluded, that every ast of the Con
vention, not directly or tacitly ratified by tin
people, was an ast of tyranny j that the peo
pie had promised inviolability to Loui«, and
alone had the right to strip him of it; aril
that to them, in the Primai y Afiemblie;, his
fate onght to be submitted.
Dubois Crance oppufed tbe appeal to Um
people. 'It would be Convanlent, I grant, to
remove retponfihility from ourfeli es, but our
duty i« to prelerve it entire. Victory alone
can decide between the mandatories of liberty
and tbe drfpots of Europe. Let us die, if be
ctfiary, bnt let us prefer ve the right offajjug
in dsath, Tiiank Heaven, we have favld our
country.
Coren FuftScr was for referring the Sen
tence to the faoftitm ot the people.
More*u opposed it a-, a fbarce cf discord,
perhaps of civil war.
Addreflij and petitions were mtl fVomva-,
rlom pirti, Come d-d ring the pe'erv&riw,
fo.-na the death of Louis, and fo,i« an apffc&l'
to the people, but aii the fpcedy 01 gfnlziStfa,
of a Ilspublicaagarernmoat.
** • /
lONDOU, December 31.
OEKIX AX> CIHCU MUrANCtt-
Motions have been made in tfce National
Convention, for placing the troops in winter
quarters, and even for recalling the greater
part of them into the interior of France; but
no meafurv were takeri in putluante oi
them. Thlre was also a propol'al to place all
the Newspapers moi e immediately under the
influence of the Convention, and to appoint
Cominiffioners for making enquiries concern
ing the authors of them j but u[x>n this the
AlTembly palled to the Order of the Day.
Marat lias been denounced to the Conven
tion by Chabot, for having declared in his pa
per, though lunie'.vhat irfdireftly, rhat the
French people might find it neceilary to elect
for themselves a Chief. He immediately
mounted the Tribune, and defended himfeli,
in his usual way, with great violence, but, at
least, with equal art. A g'eat deal of tumult
ensued upon this; after which the AfTembly
palled to the Order of the Day.
The following character of tlie King of
France, given by MaUherbes, one ofhisCoun
fel, does both the parties great honor
" The King is a man of a lofty character ;
he has a strong and courageous mind, and he
is fuperios to all attacks. the King were
a Philosopher, or of tlie religion of the anci
ent Romans, where a fort of honor was at
tached to suicide, he might perhaps destroy
bimlelf'; but he is of tire Catholic religion,
which.forbids ielf-deftruftion. He is pious,
and as sincere a believer as nian can be: the
fear of difplealing God will always arrest his
arm.''
The French, after taking the free and im
perial towns ofAix la Chapelle, threw down
the statue of the Emperor Charles V. which
stood before the town-house, and erected the
Tree of Liberty in its place. The French
gtrrifon were under arms the whole time ; all
the inhabitants, however, kept in their hou
ses. This event, together with the addrefles
from Mayence and Frankfort, and the com
motions manilefted in moll of the towns ot
Brabant against tbe new Republicans, prove
that the people are quite recovered fronj the
enthuflafm with which their troublelome guells
at firff inspired them.
General Miranda, after taking pofleflion of
the town of Gueldre, the capital of Prufflan
Cuelderland, levied on the merchants of that
town 300,000 Dutch florins; 133,000 florins
were levied on the town of Meurs, and also
6000 pair of flioes, 4060 pair of boots, and all
the fluffs-and cloaths that could be found iu
the ihops and ware-houses, for the cloathing
of his troops. He took hpftages from both
towns for what could not be paid him inffantly.
A contribution of 100,000 florins has been laid
on the Abbey of Cloftercamp, and two Friars
have been taken as hostages for the payment.
The situation of Paris becomes every day
more critical. The lifts of proscription are
renewed and multiplied. Again they have
recourse to arbitrary imprisonment, as was
gra&ifed previous to the scenes of the 2d Sep
tember. Several Sections are in a state of in
furre&ion ; the conftjtuted authorities with
out power, commerce quite at a stand, and
every good citizen i$ heartily sick of the revo
lution. But the dread of the fcourgesof their
country obliges them to smother their griefs.
The late AcWrefs of the Deputies of the
province of Hainault to the National Conven
tion, contains foch a remarkable pafTage, that
we are induced to copy it literally from the
French Journals. It is as follows:
" Generous Frenchmen, said they, rescind
your Decree of the 15th of December, or you
speak to us as Matters, Sove
reigns, when you yourselves decree the cefla
tion ol'our Taxes and Public Revenues,which
you take into your own hands; and when you
order the management of our National Effects,
■when you pronounce, otherwise than through
ns, the extinction of our Political Societies or
Corporations, when yoo prescribe even the
confifcatien of private Property, which our
former Depots dared not do, when they de
clared us Rebels, and treated us as such."
So much for French Liberty ! !
I can a Sure you that the public opinion is
very much changed in favor of the King since
his appearance at tne Bar of the Convention.
Pamphlets in defence of his conduct are hawk
ed through all the ttreets, whereas, twelve
days ago to have uttered a Word in his favor,
might have been attended with deadly conse
quence s.
Count Lncchefini is gone to Vienna, in
quality of Mimfter from the King of Prutfia.
By an express from Amfterdaro, received
by Saturday's Dutch mail, we learn that the
troops of his Sardinian Majefly have gained a
signal advantage over the French in Savoy—
that they had taken all their magazines at
Sofpelo; three standards; 50prifoners, and
killed and wounded a considerable number.—
The loss of the Sardinians was very inconfi
dsrable.
Tbe Flanders mail of Friday brought an
account of a riot at Offend, oecafioned by the
inhabitants attempting to cut down the Tree
ef Mberty, which the French fojdiers endea
vored to defend. One citizen was killed in
the affray.
Letters from Mentzofthe 22dult.fay, that
the French there are in perfect Tecuritv; that
the Prtrilians occupy the heighths of Naflau,
but are in great want of provisions and so
rage ; that there are daily skirmishes, and
sometimes a cannonade between the advanced
ports of the two armies ; and that the King
of Pruflia has lent to demand a truce for three
■months, that he may put his troops into win
ter quarters.
The former government of Geneva is at
length completely annihilated. All the aris
tocratic party have been turned out of their
offices, and equality men have been fubltituted
in their {lead.
Domestic Articles. -
HAUfAX, (N. C-0 Feb. 23.
Extral afW|«i Philadelphia, dated Jim. 13.
<1 xSrj|Hps of Mr. Steele Mr.
Gifts hare ifK tbe Hnufe from their Confi
dential (lumber?, and Mr. H • *i will be
puzzled to obtain his new tax, notwithftand
inghiseftabliftu*d influence, and the a&iveal
fiftance of his eaftem j-k-Ir. This politician
is for keeping up Old Man* Indiau far.ee, be
cause it furniflies a pretence for new loans
and additional taxes these objecHare
obtained, he will write an elaborate report
ortthe evils of war, ami tbe ruinojis pbHcy«P
military eftabli foments—and join the try a
gainst the hunted Secretary, until that liilfoftu
nate instrument of his projects is fairly lodged
in the toils —a trifling peace-offering to the pub
lic odium !
BOSTON, February 23.
SHIP NEWS-rextra. f
Arrived, (hip Diligence from a cruiz*. The
Captain informs, that in lat. 39. * ting- °°
the Antifcdcral Fleet, commanded by Commo
dore Pendulum*, met with a severe check, from
the Federal Fleet, commanded by Admiral Fd~
bius who had hoisted his flag, on board the (hip
Integrity* The following are some of the par
ticulars The Tinsel, a small (hip from North-
Carolina, attacked the Mdrs, an old, tried Chip,
in the federal service : But the latter, feeling no
injury from the pop-guns of the Tinjel did not
deign to return a (hot—However, the Dctettor,
a fifty gun (hip from Connecticut, checkcd thear
logauce of'the Tinfe7, by pouring a broadside in
to her, which her commander fpitefully returned,
and hauled down her colours. The Blujler s a
ci l e gingerbread (loop of war, of Virginity had
the impudence to engage with a
firft rate, who funk her immediately by owe
well-dire&ed Report.
The Ancient-Dominion, on board which Com
modore Pendulum hoisted his "Jlandard" receiv
ed a severe fire from the Catullus ; which much
disordered her upper-voorks. Some of the anti
federal fleet had the temerity to fire at the Jnteg
rity, but (ht being a remarkably hard sided (hip,
built of true 44 hearts-oj-oah," the (hot did not
enter, but recoiling, injured the fliips who fired
them ; on which theyJheeredoff. The Hopeful,
a firft rate from Virginia, in the anti-service,
which was remarkably afilire at the firft of the
war, has lately kept much aloof, the Capt. being
discouraged. It was said Commodore Pendulum
intended to resign, as soon as he arrived in port,
beingdifTatisfied with the service.
The antifederal fleet expected to be reinforced
by the Demagogue and some other fliips, from
Majfachufetts : but so far from that, this truly re
publican and federal Rate is determined further
to add to the strength of the other squadron, and
inftcad of the Demagogue, will fend the Patriot
of DanverSy a {hip well known in the Jlormi of
*75» which ha* weathered many a Ga/e, and
which may be relied on in the hour of difficulty.
* Sati'to he -parallelwith the latitude if PbifaT
dclphia.
THE PRESIDENT'S BIRTH.DAY,
Was yesterday celebrated, in this town, with
all those emotions of feftive gratitude, which
arise in the breasts of Freemen, who feel grateful,
that Heaven has thus far, prolonged the life of
a citizen, whose existence is deemed essential to
the welfare of his country.
The lifing fun of this anniversary of his natal
day, was saluted by a difchaige of 9 gnns, from
Liberty Square :
A very numerous companyof citizens dined
at Concert Hall; and after dinner, among others,
gave the following
TOASTS
J. The Day.—May it ever be marked as a
Festival in the annals of Freedom.
a. The Hero of the Day—AWashinoton
to every grateful Country, and a grateful Coun
try to every Washington.
3. The American Union—May its duration be
limited only by the boundaries of time.
4. The Vice-President and Congress of the
United States.— May their panegyric continue to
be read in the prosperity of their country. ,
VOLUNTEERS.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
HENRY KNOX.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES.
In the Minutes of Thursday's Proceedings,
it was noticed that 'Mr. Murray moved
to tale the Bill concerning Bai!,Procefs
and Co/}s, ire. into consideration, and
that the Motion was seconded by Mr.
Key. Upon this occajion
Mr. MURRAY suggested the necessity of
giving a preference to this bill reported by him
some days finee. He declared that business pri
or in point of time; and superior in point of
dignity and consequence. The Judicial system
w;is inadequate to the objects of justice or of
coercion. Its defe&s resulted from the difficul
ty and novelty of the cafe—and as no nation on
earth, had in his knowledge, ever produced by
one exertion of wisdom a system complete and
efficient, it was not wonderful that the law in
question had it imperfeiftions. It was ifi' vain
to expe<St a complete theory of thisfort—Wifdom
must correfl errors where they fliall appear; and
it will be but by gradual amelioration, that ws
can expect our system to reach any thing near to
pra&ical pcrfefliou He then offered a bill,
which, if the profefiional men would look stea
dily at, might be, if not a complete remedy on
its several points, at least a bottom on which
something good might rife. Bail, whether re
guarded as to the citizen or the revenue, was a
point of high importance, and the appointment
of commissioners of bail loudly called for, as a
measure to relieve the United States system from
an invidious c nip rifon with the fvftcms of the
state. The other ojijeits were before the house
318
in the bill r M if were onee fleidi
ly attended to he believed there would be no
difficulty on the fubjedt He hoped the refac
tions would not now be taken up. They requir
#d no concurrence of the Senate—a bill did, and
they ought to have time to examine the bill
which they would have if the house would at
tend to the fubje<st.
FRIDAY EVENING, March X.
The House went into committee of the whole
on the resolutions refpetfting the official conduit
of the Secretary of the Treasury, introduced by
Mr. Giles. After a lenthy debate, the question
Will the committee agree to the firft resolution
under'eonfideration, was put, and negatived—
I4mtmber« rifingin the affirmative, and 38m
the negative. The next was negatived 35 to 16;
the reft were reje<sted without a division.
The committee then rose, and the Chairman
reported that the committee of the whole House
had had under confiderationfundryrefolutionsre
fpefting the official co!idu& of the Secretary of
the Treasury, and had disagreed to the fame.
The House took up this report, and the ques
tion was put —Will the House agree to the re
port of the committee of the whole, which is to
disagree to the resolution in the following words:
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
treafflry has violated the law pafled the 4th
of August, 1790, making appropriations
of certain monie9au(horifedtobe borrowed
by the said law, in the following particu
lars, viz. ift. By applying a certain por
tion of the principal borrowed, to the pay
ment of iritereft falling due upon that prin
cipal which was not authorized by that or
any other law. 2dly. By drawing a part
of the said monies into the United States,
without the inftru&ions of the President
of the United States.
The ayes and noes being demanded are, ayes
40, noes 12—as follow :
ATES.—Meflieurs Ames, Barnwell, Benfon,
Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Dayton, Fitzfi
mons, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon,Green
up, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Hillhoufe, Hind
man, Key, Kitchell, Lawrance, Learned, Lee,
Leonard, Livermore, Muhlenberg, Murray,
Niles, Sedgwick, J.Smfth, I. Smith, W. Smith,
Steele, Sterrett, Sturges,Thatcher,Tucker,Ward,
Williamfon, Willis.
NOES.—Meffieuce Aflie, Baldwin, Fiodley,
Giles, Gregg, Macon, Madison, Mercer, Moore,
Orr, Page, Parker.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has deviated from the induc
tions given by the President of the United
States in executing the authorities for
making loans under the a&s of the 4th
and 12th of August, 1790.
The question on agreeing to the report for re
jecting this resolution—ayes 39, noes la ——
as follow :
AYES.—Meflieurs Ames, Barnwell, Benfon,
Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Dayton, Fitzfi
mons, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon, Green
up, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Hillhoufe, Hind
man, Key, Kitchell, Lawrance, Learned, Lee,
Leonard, Livermore, Muhlenberg, Murray;
Niles, Sedgwick,'J. Smith, I. Smith, W.Smith,
Steele, Sterrett, Sturges, Thatcher, Tucker,
Ward, Williamfon.
NOES.—Meflieurs Afhe, Baldwin, F indley,
Giles, Gregg, Macon, Madison, Mercer, Moore,
Orr, Page, Parker.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
treasury omitted to discharge an efiential
duty of his office, in failing to give Con
gress official information in due time of the
monies drawn by him ftom Europe into
the United States, which drawing com
menced in December 1790, and conti
nued 'till January 1793; and of the causes
of making such drafts.
On agreeing to the report for rejecting this
resolution—ayes 33, noes 15 —as follow:
AYE S.—Meflieurs Ames, Barnwell, Benfon,
Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Dayton, Fitzfi
mons, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon, Hart
ley, Hillhoufe, Hindman, Key, Kitchell, Law
rance, Learned, Leonard, Livermore, Muhlen
berg, Murray, Sedgwick, J. Smith, W. Smith,
Steele, Sterrett, Sturges, Thatcher, Tucker,
Ward, Williamfon.
NOES.—Meflieurs Afhc, Baldwin, Findley,
Giles, Griffin, Grove, Lee, Macon, Madison,
Mercer, Moore, Niles, Page, Pa ket, I.Smith.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury, without the inftruftions of
President of the United States, has
drawn more monies borrowed in Holland
into the United States, than the President
of the United States authorized to draw
under the ast of tithAuguft 1790, which
ast appropriated two millions of dollars
only, when borrowed to the purchase of
the public debt, and that he has omitted
to Jifcharge an efiential duty of his office,
in failing to give official information to
the commifiioners for purchasing the pub
lic debt, of the various sums drawn from
time to time suggested by him to have
been intended for the purchase of the pub
lic debt.
The aye* and noes on agreeing to the report
for rejc&ing this resolution are, ayes 33, noes
B—as follow :
AYES.--Messieurs Ames, Barnwell, Bcnfon,
Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Dayton, Fitzfi
mons, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon, Grove,
Hartley, HMhoufe, Hindman, Kitchell, Law
rance, Learned, JLeonxrd, Livermore, Muhlen
berg, Niles, Sedgwick; J. Smith, W. Smith,
Stale, Stemtt. Sttt-gt,; ThatAcr, TvC, .
Ward, Wiliiamfin. '
NOES.—Meffieun Alhe, Baldwin, FindW
Giles, Macon, Madison,. Mercer, Parker.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury did not consult the public in
terest in negociating a loan with the bank
of the United States, and drafting therr
from 400,000 dollars, at j per cent, per
annum, when a greater sum of public
money was deposited in various banks at
the refpeftive periods of making the re
fpe&ive drafts.
On the qutftion for agreeing to the report
for rejecting this resolution— ayea 33, noes 8.
[Names as on the preceding refolutiun 1
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has been guilty of an inde
corum to this House, in undertaking to
judge of its motives in calling for infor
mation, which was demant'.able of him
from the conftitutio.i of his office, and
in failing to give all the neceflary infor
mation within his knowledge relatively to
the fubje&s of reference made to him of
the 19th January, and of 23d
November 1792, during the present ses
sion.
On the que ft ion for agreeing to the report
for reje&ing this resolution—ayes 34, poes 7—
as follow.
AYES.—Messieurs Ames, Barnwell, Benfon,
Boudinot, B. Bourne, S. Bourn, Dayton, Find
ley, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Gor
don, Hartley, Hillhoufe, Hindman, Kitchell,
Lawrance, Learned, Leonard, Livermore, Muh
lenberg, Niles, Parker, Sedgwick, J. Smith,
W.Smith, Steele, Sterrett, Sturgds, Thatcher,
/Tucker, Ward, Williamfoq.
NOES.Messieurs Aftie, Baldwin, Giles,.
Grove, Lee, Macon, Madison.
The House adjourned about a quarter of an
hour before ia o'clock, p. m.
Saturday, March 2,
A report of the Secretary of the Treafury,on
thp petition of Lewis Garanger, was read and
ordered to lie on the table.
A report was read from the committee to
whom was referred the letter of the Secretary of
the Trcafury, complaining of inaccuracies in -
printing his communications made to the house.
This jeport contains the following resolution,
vit. That there be printed under the dire&ien
of the Secretary of the Tretfury, 300 copies of
his reports made to the House. This resolution
was agreed to.
Mr. Boudinot moved the following:
Resolved, that the Clerk of the House of Re
presentatives be deemed to continue in office un
til a successor is appointed—agreed to.
Resolved, that the Doorkeeper and Afliftant
Doorkeeper of this House be continued in office
till successors are appointed—agreed to.
In committee of the whole, on the bill forin
creafmg the salaries of the Auditor of accouhtl
and the commiffionej* of the revenue —the Re.
gifter and Comptroller of the treasury were ad
ded to the bill—the addition to the salaries of
the two firft is 500 dollars each—to the two last
two hundred and fifty dollars each.
The amendments were reported to the House,
taken into consideration and agreed to. On the
question for engrofling the bill, for its third
reading. The Ayes and Noes were as follow:
d Y £ s.
Key,
Lawrance,
Lee,
Mess. Ames,
Baldwin,
Barnwell,
Benfon,
S. Bourne,
B. Bourn,
Dayton,
Findtey,
Fitzfimons,
Gilman,
Goodhue,
Hartley,
A
N 0 £ S.
I. Smith,
Sturges,
, Sumpter,
MelT. Clark,
Giles,
Cordon,
Grove,
Hillhoufe,
Kitchell,
Livermoro,
MacoD,
Miles,
A message from the President of the U. States
by Mr. Lear, informed the house that he ha»
approved and signed an a<st making an appopm
tion3 for defraying the expence of holding a
treaty wFth thehoftile Indian tribes,north- weft
of the river Ohio.
A message from the Senate by Mr. Otis inform
ed the House, that the President ef the United
States has notified the Senate, that he has ap
proved and signed two a&s which originated in
the Senate, viz. an a<sfc for altering the time an
places for holding the Circuit Courts in t e
Eastern Diftri& and in North-Carolina, and or
other purposes; aud an a#, in additiort to t «
a&, for eftablilhing the Judicial Courts of the
Unit d States.
The committee on enrolled bills reported four
bills as truly enrolled, viz. . .
An a& for extending the time for receiving
fubferiptions to the loan of the United States, - c.
An a<st, supplementary to the a&, for the e
tablifhment and fupp«rt of light-Woufes, beacons,
buoys, and public piers.
An ad: for the relief of Elijah Boftwick.
An a& providing for the payment of the r
inftalme t due to the bank of the United State.
An a& providing an annual allowance lor
education of Hugh Mercer, and,
An a&, supplementary to the aA, makingm
effectual provision for the collection of t e
ties imposed by law on goods, wares an n*
chandize, and on the tonnage of ships, t> r ve
The Speaker signed the fame.
Muhlenberg,
Murray,
Parkers
Sedgwick,
W. Smith,
Steele,
Thatcher,
Tucker,
Willis, 14- .
Sylvester.
Treadwell,
Ward,
Greenup,
Orr, 1fctr. l!?V<r«iore, of tlve committee of confer
ee on the disagreeing votes of the two Hou'fes
oil the bill for fixing the time of the next annual
meeting of Congress, reported that the con
ferees.could not agree. The bill being 1011, the
time of the meeting of the next Congress will
be the fir (I Monday in December, according to
the constitution.
Another message from the Senate informed
the House, that they have pafitd the bill for the
relief of Simeon Thayer, with amendments. Al
so that they have considered the bill, directing
the officers of the treasury to pass to the credit
of John Banks the sum of dols. and have re
solved that the fame be referred to the next fcf-
A resolution for compensating the witneflVs
on the enquiry into the causes qf the failure of
the expedition under Gen. St. Clair, was agreed
to. • , , .
Mr, Smith called up the motion for a resoluti
on authorizing the President of the United States
to caufeprovifion to be made for the accommo
dation of the next' Congre/s. The question for
taking this resolution into consideration was ne
gatived.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill for
the relief of Simeon Thayer, were taken into
Confideration,and disagreed to. Ayes i7,noeS2l.
A'nother message from the Senate informed
the House, that they have paflcd the bill making
appropriations therein mentioned ; that the bill
for returning to Jacob Bell certain duties on
yielded Fish, having been eonfidered, the Senate
had resolved that said bill do not pass.
The Secretary also informed the House, that
tie Prefidant of the United State* had notified
the .Senate, that on Monday next, at l» o'clock,
he would take the oath prescribed by the consti
tution in the Senate chamber.
The engrofled bill, making addition to the
compensation certain officers of the treasury,
was read the third time and passed.
A bill, providing for the compensation of
_gl,enezer Storer, was taken into consideration
in committee of the whole, and
mit amendment. A motion was made in the
House, to postpone this bill to the next session—
this-was aprced to.
Mr. Findley moved the following resolution,
in substance, viz.
Resolved, that the Secretary of the treasury
Report to Congress, onthe firft Monday of Janu
ary next, the number of the stills in the respec
tive di'tri&s d.ftinguifhmg those employed in
distilling spirits from domestic materials —the
nets produce —amount of drawbacks the num
ber of officers, and amount of their salaries—•
Tim resolution >vas agreed to.
Adjourned till 7 o'clock P. M.
SATURDAY EVF.NING, March 4.
A communication was read from the Secreta
ry of the Ttvafury, combining a report from
the Coramiflioner of the Revenue refpertir.g the
fti in the several diftrivtsin the United States,
the quantities of spirits diftijled, See. &c.
o*r(ier7ed, thAt 100 copies of thi9 report be
tot the vfv rrf iii" member*.
j- A niefTHge from the .Srnate, hy Mr. Otis, in
formed the House that rhey recede frpm their
amendments so the bill for the relief of Simeon
Thayer; that they have confkiertc the bill to
authorize a grant of land to the inhabitants of
Galliopolis—and have resolved that the fame do
not pass.
The report of a felert committee, on the me
morial of William Crowe, refperting a difcove
ly or improvement in fire-arsis, was read—and
on motion, referred to the consideration of the
next Congress.
Another mefTage was received from the Se
nate., informing the House that they have pair
ed a bill entitled, " an art making addition to
the compensation of certain public officers.'
On motion of Mr. Williamfon, the purport of
the following resolution was agreed to : 1 hat
the Clerk of this House be directed to allow any
person or persons, who conceive themselves in
terested, to take copies of such statements rela
tive to their official condurt as were by them £i-
Ven in to the committee appointed to enquire in
to the of the failure of the expedition un
der General St. Clair.
A mefTage from the President of the United
States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, informed the
House that the following afls have received his
approbation and signature : viz.
An supplementary to the a A providing
for the support of light-hotffes, &c.
An a& to provide for the payment of the firft
instalment of a loan made of the Bank of the
United States
An a6t for extending the time for receiving
on loan that part of the domestic debt which
lhall not have been fubftribed prior to the Ift
day of March, 179.;; and
An a& for the relief of Elijah Boil wick.
The committee on enrolled bills reported, a»
truly enrolled, an ad making certain appropria
tions therein mentioned; an a«st for the relief of
Simeon Thayer; and, an a& making addition
to the compensation ot certain public officers.--
These were figncd by the Speaker and laid be
fore the President.
In committee of the whole, on the bill mak
ing further proviffon for securing the duties on
ditlilled lpirits and ft ills, wines and teas. Some
progress was made in difculfing this bill, but a
motion being made that the committee fliouid
rife and aflc to be discharged, the fame being
put and carried, the committee rose and were
Jifcharged. The fubje<sf, in consequence, must
reft till next Congress.
Ameffage from the Senate informed theHoufe
Hilt the President has approved and signed an
•A Aipplementary to the a<sl to provide more
effe&ually for the colle&ion of the duties of im
post and tonnage; and an a<St to provide an an
nul allowance for the education of Hugh Mer
cer.
A meflage from the Prefulcnt of the United
States, by Mr. Lear, notified ;h: Houf: that
he had approved and signed the three adls last
reported-by the committee on enrpiled bills.
Another message from the Senate informed
the House, that the Senate having finilhed the
bufmei's before them, are now ready to adjourn.
On motion, it was resolved,. that a commit
tee of the House be appointed to join a commit
tee t)f the Senate,, ro wait on the President of
the United States, and inform him* that Con*
grefs is ready to adjourn without day, unlefshe
ihould have apy communications to make; and
meflieurs Boudinot, Sedgwick and Hindman,
were appointed the committee.
Mr. Murray then moved the following reso
lution, and that those who approved thereof
would {hew their assent by rising.
Resolved, that the thanks of the House of
Representatives beprefented to Jonathan Trum- ,
bull, in teftifaony of their approbation of his
conduct in the chair, and in the execution ot
the difficult and important trust reposed in him
as Speaker of the said House.
The resolution was agreed to nem. con. and
the Speaker made the following reply,
Gentlemen, You have made me very happy
by this teftrmony of your approbation of my
conduct in the chair. 1 feel at the lame time
an additional pleasure in this opportunity of
rendering to you my sincere acknowledgments
for the kind candour and indulgence as well as
the constant aid and support which I have ex
perienced in the performance of the duty which
you were pleased to aflign me. Be assured Gen
tlemen, I shall ever retain a grateful sense of
your goodness, and you will fufFer me to add,
thatmylieft wifhesfor your welfare and happi
nefsin public and in private life will attend each
member of this honorable body.
A message from the Senate informed the
House that they concur in the vote for a joint
committee to wait on the President of the Uni
ted States, and have appointed meflieurs John
fton and Rutherfurd on their part.
Mr. Boudinot, ofthe joint conrunittce, report
ed to the House, that they had waited on the
President of the United States, who informed
them that he had no further communications to
make. On which the Speaker adjourned the
House, fine die.
Philadelphia, March 6.
CONGRESS.
Saturday last the second House of Reprefen
atives of the United States closed its second
fetficjn, and adjourned without day.—ln the
early part of the feflion, business moved with
no great celerity—but towards the close, a
number of very ellential and important acts
were pafled—the benefit of which, will he ex
perienced bp the Agricultural, Mechanical,
and Commercial Interests of our Country
while the public Revenue will be encreafed
without any additional public burthens.
Two of the great Departments of State
have been scrutinized in the courfeof the ses
sion-—and tho' at this early period in the. exift
enceofthe Government, the best feelings of
the human mind revolt from thp idea of cor
ruption in its administration, or the fmaMeft
deviation from the ftrirt line of rertitude and
honor, on the part of its pubiic functionaries,
yet, it must afford heart-felt fatisfartion to
every lover of his country,, and its glorious
Conflitution, to find on the severest investiga
tion, prosecuted by the firft abilities, that in
the opinion of a very large majority, not a
spot or wrinkle was found to fully the official
conduct of the high and responsible chararters
concerned.—May the day be far, far distant,
when similar investigations, even tho' insti
tuted by the sacred jealousy of patriotism,
shall terminate in a less favorable result.
Thirty-two Arts were palled during the
session.
OATH OF OFFICE,
ADMINISTERED TO THE
PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
Monday last the Senate of the United States
convened in the Senate Chamber pursuant to
summonses from the President of the United
States. The Speaker and Members of the late
House of Representatives, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of State, tho Secretary of
War, the Attorney-General, the Judges of the
Supreme Court, and other Officers of Govern
ment; the tmeign Ministers, and a number of
private citizens, Ladies and Gentlemen, were al
so ptefent on the occasion. At twelve o'clock
precisely, the Ptefident entered the Hall. Mr.
"Langdon, Prflident pro tempore of the Senate,
then rose and said : Sir, one of the judges of
the Supreme Court of the United States is now
present, and ready to adminiftf r to you the oath
required by the Constitution, to be taken by the
Pieftdentof the United States. The Prrfident
then addressed his " Fellow-Citizens" in a short,
but comptehenfive speech.
Judge Cu(h'fig thin read the oath, which the
Piefident repeated after him, sentence by sen
tence, as follows :
I, George Waflimgtm, do folemrlv swear that I
will faithfully execute the office of Prejidct tf the
United States ; and will, to the bejl of my ability, pre
feroe, protect, and defend the Constitution of the
United States.
This finilhing the solemn ceremony, the Pre
sident retired.
The fuow Alexander, Capt. Carnagie, arrived
here last Sunday from Lisbon, in 32 days— Ai
he fame out of the he met a British
Packet going in—the Captain of which, sup
posing the fuow to be a British veflel, informed
Capt. Carnagie that War would be proclaimed
in England against France before he could ar
rive there.
The accounts at Lisbon, refpefling Louis XVI.
were, that the trial was not coropleated.
Accounts from one extreme of the Union
to the other, announce the celebration of the
Birth-Day of the President of tbe United
State-., with circumftaoces of uncomiqoq.fci
319
hvity, fentim*nt and eclat.-»-Any thing m
the " National Gaiem" to the contrary, not
' withstanding.
. The following gent'emcn are eteftcd Re
fcrejfentatives in the 3dCongref; <>f the United
StaJtes, for the State of North-Carolina ?
Thomas Blount, JCfcj. in diftH<st No. 9
V/i 11 iani "foilniton Dawfon, Esq. in No. 8.
Nathaniel Macon, Esq. in No. 5.
Si las Talbot, Esq.'——added to the lift pub
liihed in our lalt, completes the Representatives
in Congress for the Slate of New- York.
The #61 to extend the powers of, the Justices
of Pe-ace in jhis State, pafled ihe House of Rc
prefcnUtives the 23d ult.—This gives Jaftices
.cognizance of suits to the amount of 201.
' Tfcis is the way to mend the flaws,
*i usage make in laws ;
Since justice is a foe to learning.
We Artayers make without discerning ;
And without a Jury—
Of liti&iing itch to. cure ye—
This law the \frarmeft efforts chills,
To (hut Pandora's box of ills—
Since we, our wijdom to dtfplay,
Now fairly throw the lid away.
.Mr. Thomas, of" Woreefter, has in the
press, ait edition of the Holy Bible, in octavo.
He has fometjme since printed two editions of
that-work, vjz. one in folio, with 50 copper
plates; and t,he other in large royal quarto,
with marginal notes and references. He is
also preparing for, and will speedily put to
press, three other editions of the Bible; one
of them a demy quarto ; another in twelves,
or the common school Bible ; and the third a
Quarto Bible, with arguments prefixed to the
different books, and moral and theological ob
servations at the end of every chapter, by the
Reverend and much celebrated Mr. Ofter
wald, profeffor of divinity at Neufchatel, in
Switzerland. The priilting apparatus for
the variont sizes and qualities
of the Bible nW in common use, will be very
large and exceedingly expensive. In this un
de taking he hopes for the encouragement
and support of the public*
Extrafi of d fetter from Co/. E. Ofwdld, Proprietor
ef the Independent Gazetteer, dated Liege, (Ger-
many) Dec. 5.
4 * After a few days stay at Paris, I puifued
my route to the army, which was then 120 miles
diflartt. On my arrival at General Dnmou
rier's Head-Quarters, I was appointed fall Co
lonel iri the Corps of Artillery. My notunder
ftifrjding the French language has hitherto been
a great disadvantage to me—however, I have
made great progress in acquiring it, and hope
to be able to speak it fluently by the Springs—
France is a glorious country, worthy of the Free
dom it enjoys.—Since I have been in the army,
have been almost in conflant motion. I have
been in two altions—one at Mons, on the 6sh
November, and the other about a league from
this place, on the 28th. That at Mons was very
fevtfe, having been engaged in a cannonade
a boat 5 hours—l had four 24 pounders under
my direction, in the open field, and engaged
three redoubts : (This action I think was not
quite.as.severe as that at MonmouthVr-The army
of France being ordered to the chargc, they
rushed on the enemy, and carried every thing
before them—We have been pursuing them ever
since till within these three or four days past,
that the army has been halted here, for refrtfh
ment and pay : We expect to proceed to Co
logne, which is about 20 or 30 leagues farther,
in a day or two—when there, it is generally be
lieved the campaign will close.—Whether I
(hall p*fg another in France, is uncertain—lt
will depend altogether on my having a proper
command.
The combined enemies of France have been
beaten in every quarter —The Pruflians, Auf
trians and Sardinians, have fled before the French
army, even in their own territory.—The Artil
lery of France is certainly superior to any in the
world—lt is a noble corps—and I consider it a
great honor to have been placed iii it in the fiTft
instance."
Extratt from Mr. Burke*s Speech in the Houje of
n '•>
Commons, Dec. 29.
" The French, in all those countries into
which they had entered, had put that which
was highest at the bottom, and vice versa.
He took notice of the resolution of France
never to Ily down their arm l ! till they had
given liberty to alt those countries which they
had entered, and until that liberty was se
cured.
He here made a number of severe remarks
on Le Brun's hypocritical letter to the Na
tional Convention, relative to the meeting of
the Britirti Parliament, See.—He observed,
that thro' the whole of that letter there was
not one word of the King, not one word of
keeping well with the Court of Great-Britain j
but he mentioned the nation of Great Britain
as free and generous- He separated the na
tion from the King and his ministers, and ap
pealed to the nation from the King.
Mr. Burke asked whether the good people
of this ccuntry could believe one word that
such a man fa'd f
He next adverted to Dupont confeffing in
the National Convention, that be was an
Atbeift, and that he sincerely believed that
there *ya* no God. He said, it was nnne
ceflary for him to touch upon this extraordi
nary cpnfeffion, after it had been divinely
handled by a Noble Lord (Lord Lougborough)
W another House.
It had, he said, been stated, that nineteen
aflaffins had come from France. —These were
seven more than were fufficient to murder
the Royal Family. There were only two
hurdred murderers by trade who had com
mitted all the enormities in France in August
and September lafl—but there were tbou
fands connected with them, and who were
aiding and a/lifting. Some thousand daggers
were befpeke at Birminghan. ; how many of
these were to be sent abroad, and how many
used for home consumption, he could not tell.
Here Mr. Burke astonished the House by
drawing a long dagger, brandifliing it iu bis
band, fcnt! then thuowipgU violently r»n tl»e
floor. There, laid he, is tijc French frater
nity lor you. This is a dagger made exact
ly according to the directions to jtl e
gentlemen at Birmingham. When theFrcncfi
had thrown any nation into coniufton, h«?d
destroyed their government, and plundered
them of their property, and had piuuged a
dagger into their bof'om, thejF fuid they had
frate.nifed that nation. He was extremely
obliged to the King's ministers for tiie pieient
bill, which he trusted would preserve his life
a? well as that of many other ot A>is jnajefty s
fubjedts."
COMMU NICATJOK.
If it is a mark of dtgrneracy in a republic to
pav difttnguifhed refpett to one citizen, lliuiln
oos more by ni» virtues than his office, u mutt
bit of confequencc very anftocrattc and aifctmng
in any one citizen to cultivate the virtut-s whicb
naturally infoite that refpedl ; such a citizen is
no other than an usurper of a distinction over
his fellow-citizens. - Rcfpcft is the shadow that
follows virtue, and where the iubftance is there
will be the shadow. It the shadow be anti-re
publican, more so is the fubflance. Nothing
therefore is so anti-republican as eminent ce
publican virtue ; the very potion of aristocracy
lurks in it. The pieces in fevtral Gaieties of
this city aimed at the magistrate of this
country have exhibited m various lorms this ex
cellent mode of reasoning. According to their
theorv we should keep on an exa£fc level—as vir
tue riiei above equality and ohtains diftio&ion,
so vice, and especially that mean one of offering
outrage to virtue and dignity, finks below the
level. Indeed to fink one is raising another. It
follows therefore that our contempt for the wri
ters of those pieces is anti-republican, Alas
thefc are flrait laced times when the most natu
ral emotions of our minds are eileemed viola
tions of our political duties.
ILE Ul* & 4 L
6 per Cent*, iSfi
3 per Cents, 10/3
Deferred, itjs
Full share« Bank U. S. 12 per crnt. pretn
in the Insurance Company 75
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby £»ven, That' the Corfl
miflioners appointed by the Board of
Trustees of the University of North-Carolina,,
will attend at the town of Hillfborough, on the
18th, 19th and 2*th days of April next, for the
purpose of receiving propofalt from fach p^r
ions as may be disposed to undertake the Build
ings of the University.
FREDERICK HARGETT, Chairman.
An Ordinance for ft curing the punCluai
Payment of the Monies due on the
Subscriptions to the Society for eft a
blifhing Ufeful Manufactures.
WHEREAS doubts have heretofore arisen
with regard to the power of the Society
to annex any penalties to the non-payment of ih«
instalments, agreeably to the terms of the sub
scriptions. And whereas the Legislature at iheir
last lefiiotis, pa'flVd a supplement to the original
law of incorporation, removing the said doubts,.;
and futty rutffortfctWjg the Dirc&ots to pass any
ordinance they may think proper, to compel the
pun&ual payment of the said fuhferiptions.
Sec. i. Be it ordained, therefore, by the Governor
and Directors of the Society ~Jor ejlablifhing Ufcjul
Manufactures if any fubferiber or
(hall neglettto pay the second payment of hi*,
her, or their refpeftive fubferiptions, together
with the lawful interest arising thereon, either to
thecafhier of the United States Bank Office of
Discount and Deposit, at New-York, the cashier
of the Bank of New-York, the ca(h,ier of
Bank of the United States, in Philadelphia, ot
John Bayard, Esq. in the city of New-Brunf
wick, in the state of New- Jerky, on or be ore.
the thirteenth day of April next : That tljcn and
in that cafe, all and every (hate or (hares of fiich.
person or pe» sons so neglecting to make such pay
ments as aforefaid, and the monies by them pic
vioufly paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever thcr©»
after vested in the said Dire£Vois, and their suc
cessors, for the common benefit of the said So
ciety.
Sec.-2. Andbe it further ordained by the authority
aforefaid, That if any fubferiber, of his afligns,
(hall neglect to pay the third payment of his, her
or their refpe&ive fubficriptions, together with
the lawful interest arifing-thereon, on or before,
the thirteenth day of May next. That then and
in that cafe all and every (hare 01 (hares of fuel)
person or pet Tons so negle&tng to make fuclt
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by them
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter vested in the said Directors, and their
successors, soT the common benefit of the laid
Society.
Sec. 3. And be it further ordained by thi authority
aforefaid, That if any fubferiber, or his afligns,
fhali neglett to pay the fourth payment of his,
her,or their refpe&ive fubferiptions,on or before
the thirteennth day of July next, that then and in
tjiat cafe, all and every (hare or (hares of such
person or persons, so negletting to make such
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by theia
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter vested in the said Dire&ors, and their
successors, for the common benefit of the said
Society. NICHOLAS LOW, Governor.
PaJfedat'Ncw-Ark, 20th February, 1793.
(Counterfignedj ELISHA
Secretary pro tempore.
BE IT KNOWN, that the proportion of spe
cie which may be paid on the rcfpe&ive pay
ments of every original share, by such Stock
holders at prefer paying a moiety of said (hares
in specie, in lieu of deferred debt, is as follows :
Dots. Cti.
On 13th of April, 1793, with in
tereftfrom i3?h July, 179 a, 7 63
On the 13th of Mav, 1793, with in
terest from 13th January, 1793, 7 86
On the i3>hof July, 1793, 8 09
Stockholders in the laid Society are hereby
notified, that I, the fubferiber, am duly autho
rized to make the requisite indorsements upon
the certificates of (hates which they may respec
tively hold, and that books of transfer are open
ed at my office, in Front-ft fret. New.York.
February* i, 1793.
NICHOLAS LOW.
jawti3MsO be SOLD, or LEASED
for seven or tf.n years,
THE FOLLOfVL\'G
HOUSES.
ONE on Walnut-ftieet, near Founh-ftreet,
23 feet front, has two parlours below, the
lioni one by feet, the back parlour is
by 14 feet. The front room up ftai»s is
by 17£ feet. There are five good chambers in
this house, besides the garret is divided into
three rooms, iu two ot them there are fire-
places.
The other House i» 27 feet upon Walnut
flreet, and 53 feci upon 4th street; there are tw«
£ood parlours below, one of them 25 by 20 1-2
feet, the other 25 by 18 1-1 feet, and seven com
plete bed-chambers; besides the garret is di
vided into- 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire*
placcs. The kitchens are good ones, and aTe
tindrr the houses ; the largest house has also a
house-keeper's room. It is intended there (hall
a communication from boih of these houses
to a neighbouring ice-house, fnfficiently large to
supply 3 houses. Within 50 yards of these
houses, there wiH be compleat stables and coach
houses, for both houles ; they will be finifhed
in the most compleat manner, ana the keys
ready to be delivered early in the summer.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
othrr half may be paid by inftalmems, or the
whole may remain for 5 years, paying interest
and giving security on the premises.
For terms of sale or lease, apply to the Sut>-
fcriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has jqr SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
J 7
In this city, amounting to twertty-five pounds
sixteen (billings and fix-pence, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS, that will contain two
and a half and three and a half bufbels.
Jan. 19, 1792. efwi
BANK OF THE UNITED SPATES.,
February ift, 1793.
WHEREAS foreigners holding Stock in
the Bank of the United States may pre
fer receiving their Dividends in Europe, to re
ceiving them in America,
RESOLVED, That any proprietor of the
Capital Stock of the Bank of the United States
.residing in Europe, (hall be entitled to receive
either in London or in Amsterdam, the- half
yearly dividends which may be declared there
on—in London at the rate of one pound sterling
for every four hundred and forty-five cents, or
in Amsterdam at the rate of one guilder current
money for every forty cents and four mills—the
dividend declared in January of each year, to
be paid in London or in Amsterdam 00 the fe
eond Monday ol July following—and the divi
dend declared in J uly of each year, to. be paid in
London or in Amsterdam on the iecoud Mon
day of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to the declaring of any Dividend, so to be
paid in London or in Amsterdam) shall give au
thentic notice to the President and Directors of
the Bank at which of the said Cities he will re
ceive the said Dividend.
By the President and Directors.
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
City of Washington.
January 71b, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this City will be of
fered tor sale at auction, by the Commit
fioners, on the 17th Hay of September next.—
One fourth part of the pHrchafe money is to be
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Cltrk to the Cem'rs.
Extratt n f an Ast of the General Assembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City at Wa(hingion.
"Be enaflcd, That any foreigner may by
deed or ail/, hereafter to he made, taie and hold lands
zvithin that part oj theJaid Territory which lies with
■tn this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen nf this State ; and the fame lands may le.con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relation t, as if he and they were citizens
tfthi, State: Provided, That no foreigner /b*U,
in Virtue hereof, be (ntit/ed to any further or other
privilege of « citizen."
J a ". 'Q- tf
50 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 25th instant, a likely Ne
gro Man called Isaac, about twenty-three
years oid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made tellow, fond of talking, has a large
mouth, and (hows his teeth very much when
talking; had on when he went away, a brown
linen shirt, a short white kersey over jacket with
a very high collar and plain b-caft, with but.ons
■which appeaf to have been very gay ; a paii of
white keifey hrecches, a pair of white knit yarn
Hacking?, a pair of Ihnes wiih. firings in them,
and a coarse hat ; all ihe above clothes arc al
moil new. Said Negro was fprmeily the oro
perty of Mr. William Thomas, late of Kent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, de
ceased, and has for several years been employed
in that neighbourhood, and principally by .. Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by McflTrs. John and James
Larmack, as a waggoner, whicii bulinefs he is
well acquainted wiih, and is what he prefers •
and has been engaged in driving a waggon Irom
laid Cross.Roads to lluck-Creck, & c . until
Auguftlaft. lexpcfthowUl make his way lor
the neighbourhoods of George-Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will i-.e paid, if delivered to me in th.s
place, or Thijiy Dollars if fccured in any goal,
la that r get him again. He i s an a ,,f u | f e n ow
and when taken, will make his el'cape, unless
particularly secured.
JEajtqv, OWF.N KENNARD.
lalbot Dec. 28, 1792. em
TICKETS
Jn the FEDERAL CITT LOTTERY
May be had svSAMUEL COOPER'S Ferry.'
yvsr pußirsncD,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Seok fcUcr, at the Stone-Houje, in Second Jlreet,
PHI LADEIfhiA,
VOLUME VII, of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, a DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
AND
MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely veto :
BY WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
are diverted into the Form of Diftinft,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
COMPREHENDING
THE Hiflory, Theory., and Prasice, of ejich,
according to the Latest Difcovtries and im
provements : and full Explanations given of the
various detarhed parts of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural and Artificial Oojefts, or to
Matters EccUfiaflical, Civile Military, Commer
cial, See. Including Elucidations of the most im
portant Topics relative to Religion,Morals,Man
ners, and the Qecotiomy of Life : together wirh
a Dcfcription of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, &c. throughout
the World ; a General Hiftoty, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empires, Kingdom**
and States ; and an account of the Lives of the
most Eminent Persons in every Nation, from the
earliest ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the best author, in
Several Languages ; the most approved Dictiona
ries, as well of General Science as of particular
branches; the Tranfa£lions, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned societies, both ai home and
abroad—the MS. lettures of eminent profeffors
on different Sciences : and a variety of original
Materials, furnillied by an extensive Correfpon
dcnce.
The Seventh Volume contains a description
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Expe
rimental Philosophy, Svftem of Farriery, Feudal
fyftern, Fire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Fossils, hiftocy of France, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Glass,,
&c. with a variety of articles in natural history,
biography and mi feel lames. Illustrated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the purpofr) which
will be occasionally renewed before they con
trail a worn appearance.
11. The work isfurniftied in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unlefspaid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia : which by
far exceed in number those given in any other
icientific di£lionary. At the close ot the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expefled the work will be compiifed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
Those who wifti to becomepofleffbrs of
this valuable work will please to be early in their
applications, as the fuhfeription is nearly closed.
Jan. 23.
War Department,
Ja nuar y 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the faros to which they are entitled for fix
niont hs of their annua! pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1793, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioners of the Loans
within the states refpeflively, under the usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mud be ac
companied by the following vouchers:
lft. The certificate given by the ttate, fpecifv
ing tha.t tbe person poiTefling the fame is in fift
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as such, he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Justice*
of,!the county of in the state of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his pofleflion giv
en, of which the following is a copy (the cer
tificate given by the slate to be recited) That
he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the
time he was disabled, and that he npw resides
in the and county of and has resided
there for the last years, previous to which
he resided in
In cafe an Invalid ftiould apply for payment
hv an attorney, the said attorney, besides the
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a fpccial leti-er of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
I, A. B. of countv of state of
do hereby conllitute and appoint C. D. of
my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension for fix tnonthi, as an Invalid
ol the United Slates, from the 4th day of Sep
tember 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
>733-.
Signed and Sealed
in the Pjefence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators
mud be accompanied with legal evidence of
T VI V >' VC ?' h r"' and also of ,l,c
Invalid died, whnfe pension they may claim
By Command of the President
ol the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
PT TheP'J»t,rs in the refieahe Statu are r( .
puthfk the aiove in their Ntwfbafen J,r
thejpafe oj i mintii. t r J
-320-
FOR SALE,
By the Subjcribir, st Wahul-Street Wharf,
BILL or EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediit# ule, in pipes & quarter calks,
TENERIFFE WINE, in pipw,
SHERRY WINE, in quarter calks,
WEST-INDIA RUM, t, 3 and 4 proof,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Bales 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13-4 loch CABLE, 120 fa'homs long,
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1793. ep2m
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG
Of the very firft quality, latest iropoitation
from Canton, iria New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chcfnui and Market Streets,
N. B. A few Boxes of the above HYSON for sale.
Insurance Company.
AT a general meeting (by adjournment) of
the Insurance Company of North-America,
on Wednesday thei6th initant,
It was Resolved,
THAT the Instalments which, according to
the Constitution, will become due on the tecond
Monday of July and January next, or cither of
them, may b* paid by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so paying
such instalment, or inftalraents, (hall receive a
proportionate fliare of the Dividends thereafter
to be made, calculating such (hare from the firft
day of the month succeeding luch payments re
fpe£lively. Extra£c from the Minutes,
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Jan. 23.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, "YOUNG, & CRUKSHANK.
A New Post-Road.
HAVING been desired to eftablifti a pofl
road from Reading, in the state of Penn
sylvania, to Williamfburg, at the Great Forks of
the Genefee river, Notice is hereby given, chat
proposals will be received at the General Poll-
Office, for carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Williamfburg aforcfaid, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading and the town of
Northumberland ; from the latter place to Loyal
Sock creek ; thence to Lycoming creek ; thence
in the new road to the Painted Port, on
river; and thence to Williamfburg.
The proposals will be received until the tsth
of March next, inclusively ; the carriage of the
mail to commence within one month after-
wards.
Necessary Poft-Offices are to be established on
the route, arid such persons appointed Post
masters as the Contractor (hall name, and tlie
Postmaster-General approve.
Within three months after the carriage of this
mail is commenced, the Contraflor is to state to
the Postmaster-General the days and hours of its
arrival and departure at and from the principal
Poft-offices, which experience (hall prove to be
moli convenient • and thereafter the mail is to
be delivered at the refpeftive Poft-offices at the
hours so fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted,
on penalty of one dollar for each hour's delay ;
and for the non-performancc of a trip, the Con
tractor to forfeit twenty dollars.
The term of the contrail cannot exceed eight
years. During its continuance the Contrtiftor is
to receive the ratesof poftageby law eftiblifhed,
and to have the exclusive privilege of carrying
letters and packets for hire, such excepted, as
ffijll be Tent by a fpccial meftenger, or which arc
or Ihall be by law declared free.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P. M. G.
General PoJl-OJJice, Jan. t>2, 1793.
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Salt-, a beautiful (ituation on the P<j
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of diredion towards the Federal
City, and George Town,m full view of each place,
commanding a profpeft of the river and adjacent
country of Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying di
reflly on the river, will be fold', with the im.
piovements, which are, a two-ftorv framed
dwelling-house, neatly finilhed, a kitchen,office,
brick fmoke-hbufe and dairy, two-(lorv framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ice
houle, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
cessary improvements ; the whole of the land
enclosed with polls and rails, tenor fifieen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its
contiguity to thofc three towns must renderit an
object worthy the attention of any person who
wilhes to invert money in a propel ty that must
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in
cteafe of the Federal City,' Alexandria and
George-Towu. This property lies nearly in a
central fttuation to each place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep (hore and harbour,
capable of receiving veflels of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
«r"ru- mi S hl he "t6ed here to the City of
Washington and the Maryland (hores leadin,; to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.— Alio to fell, 21 c
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant
which will suit well to supply the above in
wood and timber. Theiitle may be seen to the
above property which is indifputablc, and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, livinir
on the prcmifts. 6
Etcl2/i) ljjt.
BALDWIN DADE.
Cp 2J»
BANK OFT HE UNlTfibST Arts.
It ESOL V ID,
'"PIiAT the Calhier he authnriCed
A from the proprietor of any numbt, „f to J
pl<»t (hares, ftich Certifi ates, not , n h „
name a, he ma, be the proprietor , ...J
cancelling the fame, to itf„e a new Cr,i,fi ciu
Certificates in lieu tfuteof, in theea mc ot ( w
proprietor. c *
JU.OLV.B, That m ,|| f,„„, Wfft rf
ewnpltat lharr, in the opital lUk .1 lht 8 „,,,
the Certificate. ol the lh..res iraii,le„ t( ) be ca«
'a- t' ' " cw or Ctl "Sc«» b«
if ,Umc of lhr '""''"""rpHreWt,
ir That ,h ' C " ,lfic, "» in k-"u, t
liliicd, be foi one 01 nnnt lharti, ti t( , t
prietor may rrquefl; and ,h< IICW Crrtijrafe or
w'' ?■" b V <W corr ffp<rtident*nunob»,»
ihole in lieu of which ihcy arc .iTurd
3 W JOHN KF.AN, Cfl,,;,
A further Caution.
ALL persons arc hereby cauiioned from rtce «
ing of Thomas Mache & Co. or anv ,„!w
person, four Notes of Hand, given by ih c | J[(!
James Carincr, of Wilmington, Nofth-Cirolir.i
la Samuel Jackfm, of Philadelphia, all beari„ R daii
the 19th July, 1785, amounting in the «n H >| ( t»
£.2,600 13 3 North-Carolina currency; the
greatett part ot which said Notes have been'pai*
to said rhonas Mache & Co. in proof of w h lc „
the (üblcnberf have the dcpofition of Mr.
Mauduit }atkfon, and other documents which la
fully and clearly iliuftrate the matter.
It is therefore cxpefied that this notice, witk
the one advertised in this paper in May and' Jm*
1791, will be a fufficicnt caution to the public. '
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, ( Executor*
MAR. R. WILLKINGS, )
Wilmington, (N. C.) Jug. t, ,792. (,atn 9 m)
Stock Brokers Office^
t. No.4s,Great Dock-ll»«t, Ntw-YoitK,
THE Subscriber imendingto confine hi'nCif'
entirely to the PURCHASE akd SALs »,
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begsleave tooffcr
his fervtces to hisfriends and otheis, in theiine
bfa Stock Broker. Those who may pleafr i 0 fg.
vor him witfi their business, may depend up«»
having it tranfaded with the utmost fidelity s ,i
dispatch.
Ordersfrom Philadelphia,Boflon, nr»ny othr»
part of the United States will be ftriflly att r „ c |.
I to.
(«.f0
LEONARD BJLEECKER,
books,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Strut, Philadelphia.
A MERlCANMUSEUM,ftomitscommenr*
, r\. mem in January 1787, to June 1792,1*
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered,
seventeen dollars and three fifths.
This work, which was conduced onanivM
proved plan, contains the best pieces puMiftrd,
tor and againfi the proceedings of go\erflißent„
wilt b« fo.judto contain srteaßTJ fcrtat 1 nfihy*
of political, agricultural, and miscellaneous eflhys M
as any ever publilhed in America. PerhapsinMi
One work are so many valuable d«um<
ing the history of this country, colleflcd tugnher-
His Excellency the President of the United Sian%
has declared of it, that " a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement."
r 2. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on Nurf
!ng and the management of Children.
" We recommend tbefe letters to the perusal rtl
| those to whom they are particularly addteffed."
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101—Price, boumt,
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s cents.
4. Beau-ties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of si-lair—so cents.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mifl
M ore* s ; E flays., Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning*
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advicr,
Swift's Lett.cj to a newly married Lady, Mrs, Cha*
pone on command of Temper, Moie's Fables sot
the Ladies, Price 6f6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Piiceadolf
lar and a quarter.
8. Element.vof Moral Science, by James B<rat«
tie, 1.1.d. profeffor of moral philosophy an 4
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdecn»-Prie4
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book thl
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : 4|! Wi
have seen nothing on these fubjc&s mote
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."——
N. B. It is introduced into the Univcrfity in Phi»
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Pgeiry. Price four-fi/ths of i 1
dollar.
io, Blair's Sermons. Pricc two dollars.
U. Necker'sTreattfeon the importance of R»
ligioys Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lo»l I
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on veff
fine paper, 5 Bihs of a dollar.
13. The Constitutions of the several United Sr?fc| t
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Price five -
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths c f
a dollar.
i 6. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar..
17 The Daway Tranilation of the Vulgate B !■»
bit-, in quarto— Price, elegantly bouad and
ed, 50/2—plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's VadeMecurn—-Pric c*
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dolfcar,
20. Chriftiah Economy. Price a fifth of a doJilar.
2t. History of Charles Grandifon, abridgf d—
Price a (ixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Hum phreys—Price a thirl
t»f a dollar.
23. Select Poems, chiefly American--? lieetf
Gxth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large a flour
Books, European as well as American rc itipus,
which he will dispose of on the mo ft lea fonable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him u'iih
commands, may depend upon being futr jlicd '■
the mod fatisfactory manner. A liberal al owance
to such as purchase quantities for public hbrvici
or to again, '