— —— — ——^
*ras«7
[No. U of Vol. IV.].
P X I C E C £7 * X £If f.
Oil, pr qafi; 4 jO
JOAKTII*.-Dollars 100 Cent* eiich. Sweet, bej},' ii> ftaflu.pr.box ' 1050
1 Ditto baskets, 12 bottles 5
PHILADELPHIA, March 27. Spermaceti pf. gall. 48
. ——Tr>ii» 44 2;
ADtls. Os. Dlh.Qy. —Whale .25 33
N'CHORS pr.Jb. 7 JO Porter B r..c ? flt, , J-33
Alioen, EtiglUh, pf.cwfc 4 33- rJLQndon> flr.do*. 1
Ditto, Roch Jw; lb. 11 ——American ditto bot.ihct. > 4.•if 160
Ashes, pot, ptrtoo, 120 Pitch, ' pr. bbl, 173 •'2
— i -Pearl,. 137. 140 7 Pork, Burtftigion, per barrel, 1067'
Arrack pr. gall. 1 M I>6 -Lowe* c9unty 10
Brandy, common, 80 85 ———Carolina . ■ 9
—Coniac go too Peas, Albany pr. btifhel 73
Brasilettp, pr.ton. 32 34 Pepper, pr. Ib.' 38
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 Piment<i >9
Bread, Ajip p r . cwt. *.7 Raifini, b&, pK « - 633
Ditto, pilut 367 Dm o »r i*» 2
_ Ditto, small water, per keg 36 4° Ditto pnbox 233
Beer, American', in battles, Rlce p s
pr.doq,bottles included, * J° Rof.o pr. banel" 278
Ditto Rr J ; . * pj. Rum' 'gallon , .2
Boards pedar • gr. M feet, 29 . AtLigtfi 6
WEVtgland , S 14. W<«3w,r<» -86
'< BaVbafofa
-Merchantable pme 20 2 4 Country, N. E. 60
■ "■" 'Sap, • <io. 1.9- *3
Mahogany, per foot »© ® a }J P.«tre,pr,Cs»t, '4.33
The above arc the (hallop prices, \ raa P r ; V°, a
for the yard price, add i dol- 5^ ot - ditto l *4 l (
. J ar 33 cents per 1000. Steel, German pklb. ; 9
Brimßone in rolls, pr.cwt. ««7 English.blistered, I". cwt.
**, 9 "J if
— Country d,tt 9 8, f, Snake robt t o' 4 2.
—-Frtth, per cwt. 333 4 Soap, Brown per lb. 6|
B « W " ,P r " ' b - —White ?
7~Jr ,u 10 —rCaftilc
Csodlesj Sperm, pr. lb. 47 St ar C fi 7
~, 53 f Snuff pr. do'i.'bof. 1 ; 4" 560'
YJ.t e Wax 3 Spermaceti, refined." pr.'lb'. 48
Mould, tallow >• „ r „ , .. <- J
— Dipped I, Sailcloth,Erjgfifh,No.i,pr. yard, 28
Cheel'c, £nglilh, pr: lb. >9 Boston, No. I. ditto 3°
—vfquntry 8; >3 r, ~——— No. 11. *9.
*8 20 S ar Lump, pr. lb 2 4
Cinnamon a 40 2 67 —Trl-oaf, finglp refined 2 4
Cloves > .33 Ditto, double do. 33;
Coroapr. cwt. J7 " Hjvannah, white »7 18
Qofljie' pr. lb. 15 »j -Ditto,4>rown, xx '2
T pr.. buthel 24 33 Muscovado, pr. cwt. 13 15!
Copperas pr.cwt. j Oj SpirtlsTurgentine 37 ;
Cncdagtv American, per cwt. ■% &7 8 ; Salt, Aflurn pr. bulhel 33
Cotton pr. - rr sr Liverpool 33
Currants 14 —Cadii '* ,
Duckjßunia,' pr. piece > U 33 Lilbon 2 ?
-JvrrKayftijs •> - 9 67 Ship build. W. O. frame* p.tOH, >5"
fail dfck, <8 so Ditto Lvt.Qpi., , ~.18 67
I Feathers pr. lb. 48 Ditto red cedar, per foot 33 40
* Flax ditto it j» Shingles,>B inch, per M. 333 3"7
Fiaxfied pV. byfti. . 90 o Ditto 2 feet, • 533 6
Flour, Superfine pr.barrel 4 75 Ditto 3'feet. dressed, 13 15
■... Common, : 5 5° ® tavel > Pipe Pfr
-r-rßtu: middlings, beh 447 White Oak h»gfoe»d, *0 33
—Meal, Indian 3 13 —~Red Pak do. 50
ditto Rye,' 3 13 leogan *« 33
—*—-Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. t 40 Barrel 16
Fullic pr. tou, 40 —"—Heading . »5,33
Oin,\ Holland, pr. cafe, fi6 Sk,ns Ouer, best pr. p ie« 4^7
■Do. pr.g,U. 8= 9° FV>x grey £ lo
Sn'' ' ''lh " "33 red i»0
wh,c r ß c f , per lb. 7 ,
20 33 367
*"*• 3: " 1" , k ' i s
(*rain,~ Wheat pr. bulK 17 127 tw/ * # si 140
Mi—Rye 60 Deet,in hair »© go
si Oats Tar,N-.Jerfey, 24'galijl. bbl. f
corn ,60 Carolina, 32 gall. 2
—r-BarJey > ... ■ 1 1 3 Turpentine pr. bbl. »33
— Befl rfielied pr. Ib. 7 Tobscco, J. River, best loolb. 4.33
-Buckwheat, per bulh. 40 inferior » 303
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, »Vo —Rappahannock t I
Herr.ugvpr.'bb'l. 4 3 5 Col oared Maryland, 533 8
Hide, g rtw p ,ib: 9 " — > d *l
Nn n,i a u A \jf Eaftern-(]aore t ; 1,
Hoglbead hoops, pr. M., , 5 Carolinafnew , y 3 ®
Indigo, French per lb, j*o 153 — old, 3' 33
— Carolina 1 120 Tea, Hyson pr. lb. 93 x2B
Iroiw, fad pr. ton, ,33 33 Hyson „ 60
lion, Caftiogs pr. cwt. 3 4 Souchong, tp q 3
ar pr.ton, 8533 Congo, 43 5 o
P'g *4 *6 67 Bohea, 33 36
S l ".'' >73 33 Tallow, refined, per lb. , , a
-—Nail rods 106 6j Tin pr. box, 1333 "1367
Lard,' ho P g. C p"'ib. 4 9 5.0 Veidjgre.fe pr lb. 47 53
Lead, in pig, P r. cwt. c3f 567 „ " '33 >67
in barf 43 7 Varn.m, |Ser gallon 33 37
'■white !0 tt? 67 Wax.Bres pr.lb-. 25 27'
red 6 40 ( 6; Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
Leather, foal, pr. lb. 17 20 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 a»6
kignumvtt* pr.ton, 560 6 —tilbon ,»o .26
i.ogwood 8° »—Tciwriffe.pr. gallon 63
Mace pr. lb. q Flval ' r 6 J
Mackarcl, best pr. bbl. » Port pr. pipe 03 4
. -- f«cmid quality $ 4 ——Dilio in bottles, pr.doi. 4
Madder, best pr. lb. 20 Claret it
Marble, Wrought,pr foot, 533 367 Sherry pr.gall. do ».,o
v'lfc" diM ° « Malaga .77 so
MoJaffei pr. rail. 4 1 47
Milliard oer lb o_ ' * r
pc.d« 2 . i,o COURSE Of LXCHAKQE,
V'aiij,«j. loi , l%d lodt pr tb> 10 On London, at 30 days, per £ .100 Oerl. 436
. Nutmegs p T . lb., 7 8 ———at 60 day. 4*«f: J
' >r * **" 66 Amsterdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, *** 37
,T * ' 87 90 days, 35
A NATIONAL P'APBk, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOH,
Wednesday, March 27, 1795.
34 1
NNO, No. 34, NOPTH FIFT
CONGRESS. •
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY,' March r.
' In committee of the whole, Mr. MuHlenberg
< ' in the chair, on the 3d, 4th, stb, 6th, 7th,
and Bth refolntions, refpefting the offidaf
cinduft of the Secretary of the Treasury,
1 for which fee Gazette of the 6th inft.
J ( (Mr. Madison'j Speech concluded.)
T'HE other attempt to elude the. erideilcf
. before the Comntittjgjecoiled with eqvtal
. fiSrt? 011 the gentlemen wlio bad hazardedit.
In the report lately made by the trnfteesof
i the linking fund, is a statement laid befire
■ them by the Secretary, in which it is noted,
that the acceptance of-the loan of three mil
•< li«»as of florins, and the application, of one
third of it to ftie purpose of that fund,'was
, un<ier the cogfide ration of the President."
From thlsYaft it bad been interred, not on
ly that the secretary had withheld no proper
iiifu-ination from the tfuftees, but that the
rciilt of the President's deliberations on the
• fubteft bad varied the purpose lighMi&d by his
$riit iuftruftioos to the secretary.
Jt happened however 1110 ft unfortunately
for the gentlemen'who exulted in this argu
ment, that they had entirely overlooked the
dates of the two papers. The paper laid be
fore the trustees, and alledged to have explain
ed the final purpose of the President, was dat
ed on the 2jth of August, 1790. The paper
relied on by the othef fide, as ' js final, as* well
as the mpft formal, deflgnation of tiie will of
the President, was dated the 28th of Augnft,
1713- The gentlemen, therefore, instead of
the inference they had made, should have re
versed their premises, and joined' with their
j opponents in concluding that the Prefideni
j was a consideration of the fubjeft, Hot
to do what the secretary in his note to thd
trustees feeined to anticipate, but whai had
■ been evinced by the President's own' ast of
posterior date.
Much has been said on the necessity of
, foroetimes.departing from.the ftriftnefs of le
_ gal appropriations, as a plea for anyfre?doins
that/may have been taken with them' by the
secretary. He would not deny that there
• W emergencies, in 'the cburß of human
■affairs, tjf To extraordinary artd preffing-a na
ture, as to absolve the executive frorii an in
flexible conformity to thc of the r
law. It was, nevertheless, as efTential to re
member, aS it was obvious to that
in ail such cases, the necessity should be pal
pable ; that the executive fanftjon should
flow from the supreme source ; and that the 1
firfl opportunity should be feiztd for commu
nicating to the (jSgifiature the measures pur-
I'ued, with the reafqos explaining the necessity
of fhem. Th|s early communication was e
qutlly enfotcid by prudence and by duty. It
was the best evidence o'f th£ motive's for as
suming the extraordinary pbwer ; it was a
due to the legi/iative au
thority ; if was more particularly indis
pensable, as tfcit.alofle would enable the legis
lature, by a provident amendment of the law,'
to accommodate it to like emergencies in fu
we. , ,
In tlie proceedings falling under theprerent
enquiry, no necessity appeared for the liber
ties which had b?en taken, the money appro
priated in Eprope being tfiore wanted there'
than at home. It appeared that the jnftruc
tions of the Supreme Executive.' iiifteVd of.
varranting thofi; libertiesj had precluded;
iiem. Nor had the proper explanations 6een
Jifclofed in duwtime to the legislature. .
To place the fi»bjeft.in a morf tfiftiiift point'
of view, it wasproper toadv'ext to the
mtborities and. duties.of* the £-cre r tary, as his'
afSce is defined'by the ast establishing the
1 trpaiury department. For this pnrpofe Mr.
M..read the second feftion of that ast, which'
is in the words following—" That it stall be
the duty of ,the ftcretnry of the treasury to
idifeft and prepare plans for the improvement
< iivd management of the revenue, and fur the
support of public credit ; to prepare and're
pott eflimate's of the public revenue, arid the
public.expenditures ; io fupti intend the colUOion
tjtherevenue ; t.o decide on Jlje. fprms of keep
ing and stating accmiotsandmaking returns,
and to grant under the limitations herein ef
tabli'lbed, or to be hereafter provided,'all war
rants for monies/o ft ijfued from ike treasury,
in pnrfuance of appropriations by law.; to cx
, ecu re fycb fervit^s.relative to the.sale <jf the
lands belonging to .the'limited States,, a j may
be By law retjulredl' of him { jo make
1 and give information to either branch of the
in person" or in writing (as he
may be required) refpefting all matters re
ferred to him by the Senate or House of Re
prerentativ«s, p)T which fbaU appertain to.hu
office ; and generally to perfprm ajl fuchfer
vices relative to,Jthe finances, as he shall be
directed to perform." ' * ,
This eftaMifhment of the office, evidently
had no reference beyond the cafe of fuperift
tending the regular and ordinary cotitctim of
tie reunite, and granting warrants for mpnies
i/fueifriru the treafurj, in parfuamre of appro
prlattoas by law.
AEST,
[Whole No. 408.]
f The cafe of loans, as an ocoafional and ev
'/''aarclinary resource, waj left to be provided
,/or by particular laws for the purpoie. The
Authority with refpeft to the loans in guefli
on was accordingly committed to the i'refi-
I dent, in order to secure for so special a trnft,
the higlieft refponiibilityjto he found in the
government. And .when it was conljdej ed
that the whole fun> contemplated wkis no lets
than fourteen millions of dollars; and wLen
the latitude as to the terms and contracts
was combined with the vaftnefs of the futn ;
it might well be questioned whether so great
a power would have been delegated to any
man in whom the legiflaturc and the people of
America, lels confidence than they so j nit
ty reposed in the existing chief magiflrate;
and whether an equal power will ever be coii.-
nrtte;! to a successor.
This diftfnftion between the cafe of ordina
nary revenue and that of loans, is. not only
consonant to the a<ftual policy of our Jaws,
but is foiinded in'obvious and solid ccnfifleja
tious.
In the collection and dilburlVment of the
ordiiiary revenues arising from taxation',' the
bufiriefs flows in official channels; is fubjeft
lii every stage to official checks ; and the mo
ney being w constant influx and effl'uxj 1:0
where accumulates in imjnenje fumj.
Tj'he ca(e o*"loans is in ail thele pefpefts
different. In fettling the'tcirps and arrang
ing the negotiations, ther&'jii aj\yays aii im
portant discretion involyecf. the loans
are foreign as well as great, regulations con
cerning the bills offexchangefjfiti'ailower oc
caiop where great latitude is implied in the
trull. Whilst the the funis fall
ing under the fame direction at tlie firne jho
ment, prelent a fur thffr and material variance
between the; two cases.
The tendency of thele obfervatiofls, j s t to
(hew, that as thi permanent law qlfablifhir.g
the treafurv t does not extend the
authority of the secretary to,the cafe of ; loanr,
and as the law authorizing loans, exaftSj for
special reasons, a refponfibijity from the pre
sident himfeTf, the authority of the secretary
in executing the loans and the appropriation
of them, rnuft be derived from the JPrefideiit;
and, cotifequently where the autliiotJty fajls,
there pan be no resort, to the law eitablifliing
. much Id's tp any general Hif
cretion incident to his official charaffer. Jtr
is,evident,- that the President, although no
doubt guided by the molt proper confiderati
ons'in employing the agency of the fee etai y
of the treafuryin the bufineisof the loans,
might, if lie forjudged fit, Ijave fubfiitiited
the agency of another ; and that whatcyer
agency he might prefer, his own inftru<stions
would always regulate the extent and exfirciia
of the power conferred,
, ,Tbe want.of any apparent authority from
the President had led several gentlemen to in
, fift on presumed authorities, fuperce|ding the
inftruvTi.ons joined with the (jommiifion to the
secretary : But here again the fair inference
was to bp revcrfed. A communication of tie
authorities given by the President to the se
cretary as,lto tVie application of the foreign
loans,had been expreftly requested by.the vote
of the house. It was not to Be fpppofed that
the secretary, if he-had received furtjier au
, thorities or iiiftruftions would,have faile«£to
. produce tjhenl, or to ,refer to, them, in the jus
tification of his eondjnft. Far leis could it be
r presumed that the President, if he had given
any fuperceding authorities or inflruoions,
would not have caul'ed them to be coiujmuii
-1 cated to the house ; or that he wpuld have
fuffered a partial communication to iniflead
the houle into an error, as tofo important a
fh<st. The President was the last man in (he
world to whom any measure whatever of a
deceptive tendency Could be credibly attfi'ibut-
~ve tei.
Thus far, said Mr. Madison, bis obfervi'
ions had departed as little as pofliblf from thi
[lieftlon in its ftrifteft sense. He Ihould now
ivail himfelf of the opportunity afforded b)
he terms of the last clause, which spoke nt
Irafts generally, to take a more particular
lotice of those recently made; in doing which
ie considered himfclf fafe within the rules of
he House, which were so rigorously enforced
igainft the affirmative fide of the question.
TJie whole amount of foreign Iqans tranf
erred directly or indirectly to the United
itates, appeared from the several statements
.0 be about three millions of dollars.
The aipount of the direst draughts was
(,304,769 13.
Ot the drafts made ftnee the 16th of Apri),
1792, and fold by the bank, the proceeds, now
in the bank, or payable into it, before the Ift
>f April next, amount to 1,220,4:76 r dollars.
Of this fuin, 5)0,000 dollars have been drawn
With, refpeft to time and t&e amount of
fhefe draft l ;, {lithe absolutely unknown
to tho Legiljature, because the account of
them had remained in the books of the banlc
without ever appearing in the books of the
Treasurer... Mr, JWad)fon conftffed that he
had toupd po explanations th ?t to hjn, were
fatisfaiftory. He had.looked thrpugh aU the
reports and all the co:ttmuni<atior.i t>ef«re fa.
ed.
. T]
Madifo
laid Mi
'T
*•Hon'e, wit! curt ili. r tcv»iing tliat tfiev
Had been made by the authority or with tlie
knowledge of"the President; or lad been re
quired for, or applied to the pnrsriafe of the
public debt; or had been ever CorAinunicated
to the trufte«s of the (hiking fund, who had
the direftlon of fuclrporcjiafes; or 'that tbejr
were the etfeftof any ueceflity. that Cyuld jus
tify thtm. \
And if there was no evident necciHty f?r
the proceeding, it w.ai the>moie to be lahisnt
ed, chat wbilft we we're every where f)n;pa
thifing with our in their a'duousftrug
gles for liberty, and echoing from every part
of the union, our and food
withe,, the.pecuniary fuct.ouri, lb critically
necessary to their cause, and the most !üb
ftantial proof of the fvueerity of our pri|''ef
fio'ris, (hould be silently withdrawn across the
Atlantic, from the object for which they w re
intended ; fuccotirs too, which were not mere
ly a tribute of gratitude, of geflerofity, orof
binevofent zeal for the triumph of liberty;
hut Si debt moreover of ffricl and positive oft
-1 gation, for value ackliowleded and received.
In contemplating the fubjeft in this point of
view, lit felt a pain which he cbuld not easily'
express ; "and'to which he persuaded himfelf,
the bread of no other meni&er could be a
stranger.
Laying aside however alt these unfavora
ble considerations, the important question still
remained, why the legislature had been unin
formed of the monies so unexpectedly drawn
into the bank, and to so very great an a
mount. If the drafts had received every r«-
quifite fanftiori—;f they had been produced by
the mod'juftifiable caafes, xhe exiflence of
1,220,476 dollars in a situation so different
from what had been contemplated, was a fact,
which the repre-eut'ativffs of the people had a
right to know; which it was important' to
them, and their c?nditi\ents, that they should
know; and which it was the indispensable
duty of the officer charged with it, to'' bave
Iftade known.
This omission-was the more remarkable,
when COrtfukred in relation to the measure
above' mentioned, of paying off at once the
whole Dim of 2,609,960 dollars, payable to
the bank by irtftalments In ten years. A bill
for this purpose had l>eeji introduced, and was
on its passage. Tile object of it had been pa
tronized by a icport of the Secretary not long
firttfe Jhadfc- In one of his last reports, be ex
pressly among the inducements to such
extenfiYeirfrafts °f money frotn Europe, that
they were made " with an eye to placing
within the reach of the legislature"—the
means requisite for this object. Was it not
extraordinary; was it not unaccountable,
that'!'o important a measure (hould be recom
mendeclj and be actually introduced, and that
money otberwife appropriated in Edrope,
flfOuld be transferred to this country afid de
posited in the,{rank, in order that it might be
within the reach of being applied by tlie legis
lature to that meafureand yet that no dif
eTofure Jhoukl be made to the legislature of
the fas, that the money was so drawn aiid
lay at ttie batik within their reach tot>4'<bap
plied.'-.
If any thing could heighten aftonifhroenton
this oeVaftoii, it inuft be the reason afligned.by
the Seqf'etWy tor any obfeurity that might
. liave hung over our finances,—that till the
last resolutions, 110 call had been made on the
department, which rendered it proptr to exhibit
a.genera) view of the public monies and funds,
•Or to rfiew the amount and situation of such
->as were unapplied." Mr. Madison would
not decide that the Legislature was free from
Maine, in not using more full and efficacious
means of obtaining such .information, as would
have removed all obfeurity. But whatever
degree of blame might fall on them, it never
eould be admitted, that their calls on the de
partment had furnifhed no proptr occasion for
exhibiting a fnll view of the public finances.
He referred generally to the various resolu
tions, which, without the lead force of con
ftruftion, would have extended to every pro
per article of information. He reminded the
committee of the latitude of reports under
certain other orders of the hnufe ; and asked
Vjiether less freedom of .ponftruftion was to
be allowed when information was to he giver,
tli'an when power or discretion was £0 be ex
ercised ? But independently of this view of
the raatte{, Mi\ M. held it to be clear and
palpable, that the very situation of the 1110,
ney, afforded in occaiion which rendered it
proper, that the House Ihoaki be informed of
i*. If ajiberty could be taken> of removing
. m'qiiey from Europe where it flood appropri
ated by law, to this country, where there was
nd legal object that required it, and with an
eye," as was dated, to an object to which no
nrOrrey was applicable, without the authority
of tlie Legislature, how could it possibly be
. supposed improper to take the furtlier liberty
of communicating wliat Was done, to tlie Le
gislature ?
He concluded with recurring to the parti
ycular form, in which the fubjeft presented it
felf to the committee, arid repeating, that
whatever qualify might be attached to the
facts charged, or however improper it might
be thought by some, to proceed-in bade to any
affirmative decijion on tlrem, it appeared ir
reconcileahle with the evidence which had
been produced, to decide, by a negative vote,
against the truth of the facts. • •
(Debate to be retimed.) .'
For the GAZETTE, of. the UNITED STATIS.
M*. E*nnOj
CONSIDERING M. Dnppnt's speech in
the Convention t>fprance, as a
female of that philosophy which prevail? tpo
generally among the men of science, who are
the principal cohdiiftors of the preferit revo.
lation'in tiiat ft; u's that,phflo
lbphy is fufceptibfe welfas re
ligion. These pjiitotijphi'cat are zea
loufly engaged In preaching a system of equality
which, without an entire regenerate of hu*a*'
nature, (to adopt a phrase they are so tbnd of
dealing from the pulpit) could never be main
tained—that is, unless all men were perfectly
wtfe and perfe&ly^wi—and unlets they
be persuaded to labour for the public* without
either the natural rewards ofindtiftry, or the
motives of piety.—-They are engaged w'ith
equal zeal in destroying all fyfleuU of pubitt'
and feein not to be aware how deeply
a tendency to religion is implanted In the &u
---nian heart. The great body of the people, if
they are not well inftru&ed in ratiorif priori
pies of virtue and piety, recommended by tne
solemnity of and fan<stTonedj*J
they believe by the authority of wiltfife
perpetually liable, from that tendency, t<rra
perftition or enthusiasm.—-In the abf<£ne(? Rtf
religious fdrms, they are ineft pion«tt> enthu
siasm.—-And "when once the phvenzy beetles
genera], no man can pretend to limit its <?x
---cefles, or to fay what direction accident mhy
give it.—-Tranquility is deftroyfc<], order is
oveiturned, and that wretched phiiotepby,
that laid the foundation ofthe evif, will itfelf
be among the firft objects of its i'urt. Th®
bad and the good are equally swept &*vay lie
fore this dreadful conflagration. That it has
been is fufficient to provoke its vengeance —
It is the spirit of fanatVcifm to things
rhzv, and to annihilate, if poflible, every vestige
ot former manners, inititntions, and opinions.
Suclj.it the'tendency likewise of that' phikfo
phuatjanaticifm that now infers many of the
leaders of the French nation—And,- by at
tempting to destroy religion, they are, with
out intending it, preparing the way for a re«
ligiouspkrenzy in some future time tq luring
up, that "will be equally terrible and ruinous
in its efie&s. Tbe human mind will rvfh
with violence from the one extreme 1 to the
other.
TJiefe reflexions deserve the confkteration
of those few men offcience- and influence, in.
this country, who ,?ir,e\aping- v th« la/rguage of
France on the (übje<st of equality, and who,
though tliey are not athcijls like.JJupont, seem
to be inspired with a fimiiar antipathy to re
ligions infiitutions.
March 22,'1793.
Foreign Affairs.
LEGHORN, Dec. 19.
WE have farther accounts .of the
departure of the French fleet
from the bay of Specehia ; ten
them are gone to Toulon, where
there are said to be sixty transports,
with ij ,000 troops on board, wait
ing for them to convoy. Eleven
other French fliips of war, with
some bomb ketches, are gone toCof
fica, to rake in 4,000 u»en. Afitr
tfjis the fleet will unite again," a,n£,
it is said, will fail to Sardinia.
Admiral Truguet has declared
that, asTufcany has obfervcd a vet
ry ftridt neutrality, it fliall not be
molested. ■< t 1
H A G U E, January ro.
The States General have pubfiih
ed a placart forbidding any men,
either as soldiers or Tailors from be
ing enlisted here for any foreign
service whatever.
The States General have appoint
ed Wednesday, the 13th of Februa
ry to be appointed as a day of ge
neral fatting and prayer, according
to annual custom.
LONDON, Jan. 16.
Dumourier, like his pred.ecelTors,
Fayette and Luckner, has returned
to Paris with complaints from
army—Like Fayette and Luckfior, .
that step may lead to his ruin ; fo(r,
like therfi, he will in all probabili
ty discover that there »3 less danger
and difficulty in battle, than in pro
posing to an Aflembly of madnier,
decency of public condudl, and tlie
adoption of prudential meafureS'i •
The induftvious t-radefmen artd
laborious poor of this kingdom have '
great reason to detest those admi
rers of the Frinch Revolution, for
inviting them to assist in a revolu
tion here, and thereby defeating
the grand plan for increasing onr -
national strength, by applying the
annual furpJus of revenue to the re
duction of taxes and national debt,
and oblige us to employ that and."
millions mpre in a fruitlefs war. .
The French Antbaflador is sup
posed to have, had his last interview
with Miniftiy on Sunday.
January 21.
' The approaching war with France
will unquestionably be the most po
pular in which this country has ever
involved —We have juftieeand
expediency on our fide, and the
call of Europe to step forward and
check the career of blood hounds.
A inore fptcions, fhuffiing, unfa
tisfa<Xary composition, than the an
swer of the Provilioiial Executive
342
Council of Prance to the official no
rice of Lord Cirenville,dWjVered to
Monf. Chaiivelin, can li«rdly beini
agined. The attempt to explain a
way thedecree of tke National Con
vention, by which they hold out in
vitations to the /editious of all coun
tries, is futile in the extreme, and
the subsequent affirmation, that the
opening the Scheldt is a matter
" absolutely indifferent to England,
and as little interesting toHolland,"
is an impudent and infultfrtg y>e
. fnmptipn to judge for both coun
tries. Nor is this all : sos while
the French Republic thus means to
" eftablHh itfelf as an universal ar
biter of the treaties which bind na
tions," it proceeds to declare that it
will support the opening of the
Scheldt till the Belgic ftiall be a free
and nnfhackled State—that is, 'in
other words, as long as the French
republic shall please. Such 'lan
guage would.not have been borne
by onr hardy ancestors, and we
trust Britons will exhibit an here
ditary zeal, for national honor.
A letter, said to come from an of
ficer in commodore Murray's squa
dron, mentions that the commodore
being joined by two Dutch frigates,
and having taken on board pilots
at Flushing, he entered the Scheldt
on Thurfdaylaft. The commodore
boarded one of the French frigates
lying in the Scheldt, which the
cr*w had abandoned on bis ap
-1 pfoaCh.- A frtiaH vessel under French
colours, on Tnefday, attempting to
fail up the Scheldt, was fired at by
the Dutch, and funk.
A most elegant dinner was on Fri
day givep by tlie Lord Mayor to a
large party of friends, in honor of
her Majesty's birth day.
The spirit of loyalty gavu a zed
to the luxuriance of the entertain
ment, which was highly expressive
of that liberality which diitinguifh
es his Lordship, and the following
toasts and sentiments were drank
unnnimoufly :
, King ; rosy 1 he reign long
and happy.
The Queen, and a long happy
life te her.
The Prinee of Wales and Royal*
Fam.il,y.
Mr. Pitt, &C. &c.
The Corifticutiori of Great-Britain,,
is ertablifhed by law, and may it
flottrilh and endure while time (hall
last.
The City of London, and may
the fpjrit of her Citizens prteferve
her freedom and protedl her com
merce.
Of the songs, there were several
sung in a superior style, and " God
save the King !" was given with
moch effedt, by three voices, and
the whole company united in the
chorus.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Tuesday, January 8.
It was decreed that for the fu
ture the process verbal shall contain
axccital of all the tumultuous scenes
in the Contention.
New complaint* were made by
the Commifliohers stationed at Brus
sels, of the scarcity of forage and
proirifionsin thearmy of the repub
lic. A new organization of the
War-Officie, which removes all res
ponsibility. from the War Minister,
was the consequence of this com
plaint.
The Minister Pache stated, that
the Gendarmes quitted their colours
in numbers, which ought to excite
an alarm. " If we do not," said
he, " put a stop to this calamity,
how are we to combat our numer
ous enemies in the spring ? I de
mind jfhat they may be considered
as defertsrs."
Referred to the war Committee.
The Decree of the ijth of De
cemj»er, which refjiedts the Belgic
Provinces, was ne;ct difcufled.
" The Priests of Belgia" said
Cambon, " the priests alone oppose
.this decree, becaule irputs us in pos
session of eight hundred Abbeys be
longing to the Maurys of Belgia,
and of lands which are to us the
Land of Promise. Why (hould we
delay the eonfifcation of this Church
property J I demand that Commif
jfianers may be immediately feijr to
seize 011 It." (This proposition
«me too home to the feeling, „♦
the convention, not to be adored.)
W fdnfsday, J«n. 16.
It having been decreed br t h e
Pr°vifion»l Executive Council, that
the theatres (hall be open during the
rime employed in palW ( e „t eiKe
on Loms Capet, fuppretfiug, how.
evei, such pieces as have l ale l y oc .
cafioned turnuU, a violent debare
entiled in the Convention. Tl r
A member complained that the
municipal officers bad been inj'nlted
at the theatre the day before. Or
der of the day.
Lacroix returned from the army
of the Rhine dated, he deplorable
ncuation of the Soldiery—without
arms, without cloatbs, whole co Bt .
panies reduced to three men each,
and whole battalions ijp sixty
Roland stated, that multitudes
fled from the metropolis. It waj
not furpnhng, he said, as new pro
scriptions were on foot. The Ke.
derates bad demanded that the
gates should be (hut.
Garnier de Sainies, for calling
Carnbon a villain, was ordered ta
the Jbbayt for three days. A raoft
violent tumult prevailed in the con.
vention. ~,The sentence of the mem
ber was changed to 34 hours cou
finement at home.
It was announced, that the bar.
riers of Paris were IKu£.. Several
conspiracies and plots were »»foan
nounced.
At fix in the evening announced
the question,
What punishment (hall be apptf.
Ed to the crimes of which Louis
XVI. late King of the French, is
declared convitfted ?
The Secretary ascended the Tri
bunal.
At three in the morning, about,
a fourth of the voices were collected
—the majority were for death.
A tnember conceived, that the
pnblic fafety required this ptinifh
ment, should it be pronounced, \o
be commuted.
Genfonne moved, that the aotbors
of the crimes of the 2d of Septem
ber, ihoold be pursued by the mi
liifters of justice. C- ; '" x
BRUSSELS, Jan. 14.
Two revolutions have not yet
been able to enlighten the Braban
ters. The miniftersof Austria, the
intriguers of Prussia, and the emis
saries of Holland, have sported both
with the fineerity and energy of
this people. They have been de
ceived by the States and betrayed
by those very men who firft railed
the standard of infurre<Sion. Dif
ferent parties and fatftions have
in turns excited their pafEoni or
strengthened their prejudices, and
after sowing division among the ci
tizens, have either through avarice
or ambition fold them to the House
of Austria. The bilhops, monks,
nobility, and admioiftrators of the
.House of Austria areihofi? Wti« now
diredl the motions of that people
who spoke so much of liberty, and
who have "'struggled so much in the
noble cause. It is not possible to
believe that the Brabanters, if left
to ttoemfelves, would bawl out so
loudly for their conflitrttion, their
whole cenflitution and nithing but thfir
conjiitutien. No. These people are
deceived and milled.—What can we
think of the nomination of an elec
toral body, who curse the pretence
of the French, insult their princi
ples, and reje<ft with lond clamoui*
the oath of equality i One cannot
read, without indignarion, the re
sult of the primary aftemblieSj in
which the following declaration was
proposed to be made iti'the free ci
ty of Bruflels at the time of tbe
elections.
■»ECI All ATltrN".* " ' '
Glory to God, and peace and good
will to all men.
-I. That the Inhabitants of tlit
fre* city of Brussels will courage
ously maintain the Catholic, Apos
tolic, and RomHh religion.
11. That they will acknowledge
and have no other fopreme judge
than the council of Bfabant.
HI. That they acknowledge and
will have no othdr reprefentathes
of the people of Brabant than the
Three Estates.
** 4IV. That they require and-de
mand that the aucient conßitotioH,
and the ancient laws and usages be
executed and followed and that
they ftiall serve as the only balls
both for the civil, religious, and
diplomatic administrations, as well
as for all others.
V. That the* following persons be
chosen to exercise in the interim
the authority or power exercised by
the Duke as far a3 concerns the ci :
tf att/l bailljwiclc of the city of Brufc
fels.
[Here follow the names,]
form or the oath. 1
" We swear to be faithful to the
free and favereign people of Bra
bant to maintain the catholic, apos
tolic and Roniilh religion, the con
stitution of the country of Brabant,
and to do every thing chat is pre
scribed, or that ought to be execu
ted for their happiness, and what
iw may be afterwards ordained
by the. sovereign will of the people.
. " So help me God and all the
Saints."
COPENHAGEN, Jan. it.
Out- cpurt, in answer te the note
folic by the Emperor, reqnefUng us
to farnilh forthwith the iriplelttiH
cary contingency for the duchy of
Holftein, have declared rhey will
furnifh tfoi* contingency as fooh as
poiiible, but in specie, instead of
troops.
Domestic Articles.
BOSTON, March i j
On Tuesday last an atlion of.
trefpafsfor atlanlc and battery,
brought by Benjamin Austin, jun.'
Esq. againll Captain Benjamin Rus
sell, Editor of the Centinel, came
on before the Supreme judicial
Court. The counf'el for the De
fendant were Mefl'rs. Otis and Mor
ton, who managed the cause in an
elegant and mallei ly manner. The
corn.(el for the plaintiff 1 did not ap
pear so Dexterous, in this plea, as
we have known him on some other
occasions, being several times called
to o.rder, by Judge Dana, for devi
ating from the evidence : He sup
posed that Mr. Austin ought to re
cover extraordinary damages be
cause he was a Senator of the Com
nionwealrh, and said that his ho
nor would be valued in exact pro
portion wich the damages he reco
vered j if this is really the cafe,
we are sorry the gentleman's honor,
which by hioifelf was valued at a
ihiufnnd fovndi, should be so flight
ed, by the Jury, who.dedu<ftfcd there
froiy nine hundred and ninety-nine
fonadi. 1 . '
STAUNTON, Feb. 21.
We hear, from Lewifburgh,Green
briar county, that a company of
Light Dragoons, quartered there,
are to march on the eighth March
For the Great Kanauway —-at which
place they will embark for Ken*
rucky
We are informed by a gentleman
just arrived from the Sale Works in
Kentucky, that 011 the T7(hof Ja
nuary last, the Indians killed three
men at the Bear WaJlow, on the
road from that state to the sett fo
ments of Cumberland.
We also hear, that a treaty is to
be held in the spring, with the hof
tife tribes of Irdians—and that an
Indian flag arrived at P'ort JefFerfon
the ioth of January last.
Extratt of a letter jrom a gentleman at
Fart IVajbiugton, to a gentleman in
this town, dated Jan. 14.
" I have nothing material to in
form you «efpe<fting our (ituation at.
prpfent—but am very sorry that the
fatall portion of news which I have
gathered is v-ery bad>—three men
were recently hung at Fort Hamil
ton for desertion, and seven more
have been tried, but their sentence
1* not palled. Among the latter are
two belonging to Captain Alexander
Gibfon's company, whom it is ex
pected will.certainly be executed —
as one of them deferied at the Warm
Springs, f«r which he was puniftied
— and one of our officer*, in order
to save..the Indians the trouble, has
put an end 10 his own existence, by
cuttutg his throat."
Philadelphia, March 2 f-
The CJiarlejloii Citi Gazette, of March 15, contains the
following important irrtellf ience, rlctfvtdf>y an ar
rival at that fvrt, frrrm Hrylo/.
FRANCE. •
NATIONAL convention.
January 20.
The minister of justice informed the conven
tion that <he executive council had been'fu'm
mo/rc<V »'id allVtnbled eaily this tttoimug, for
the execution of the decrce relative to l.ouis
G*pft, »-dc<rree 6t which two copies.had ,bceu
transmitted to the hotel of the miniit- r at jut
tice. The council had called to its afliftlhee the'
department, the mayor,' the commandant gene
ral, and'public accuser of the public-tribunal.
Afrdr having concerted alotrg with these-, the
meafurei-of execution, the minister of justice,
president of the executive council, a tpembersof
council, the lecretary, and two members of the
, department, went together to the temple.
At two o'clock, they were brought to Lotiis,
to whom the minister of justice, pfefident, of
the executive council said, " Louis, the executive
has been charged to notify !o you the extrati of
the minutes of the national cenvention, dated
the 15th, 17th and 191 hot this month, which
the secretary will now read to you."—The se
cretary of the executive council proceeded to
read these three extracts.
Louis anfwcred by reading • written ptfper,
signed with hi» own hand. After havinghcard
this paper, I anfwcred, continued the minister
of justice, that we,fhould deliberate on the ob
ject of his demands. We retired, and as we
were of opinion, that we could not decide alone
on the conduct proper to be adopted, we return
ed to ihe council, which decreed, that we (bould
submit to you ihe writing delivered by.l/Ouisto
the deputation, of which I (hall now ffcad you a
ropy. "" '
The laji rtqutfls of Louis ! '
M I demand a delay of three daYs„ ,jn Qr4pf ,
to make The necessary preparations t,o
the presence of God !—-I demand for that pur-"
pose to fend for and fee freely the person horri
I (ball name— the person whom I deritand is*
M. Efcheauvaux de lodgolstf JSofc'
483* Rue de Bacq.
" I demand that his person be secured from
aU disturbance, from all apprehension on ac
count of the last offices of charity which he ftiall
render me. . . • .. • ,
" I demand to. be freed from ihit perpetual
infpc6tion, which the council general has esta
blished over mc for some months.
" I demand in'tbis interval, to'be able to
fee my faintly as often as I (hall rcqucft, and
without witness.
" I would request, that the national con
vention would immediately proceed to dejibe
lateonthe fate of my family, and pet Wit
tbem to retire freely, wherever they think
proj>er. ■ ■
" I recommend to the nation, all the per
sons who were attached to me. There are
many of t[ien) who have expended all their
fortunes to purchase places under the new go
vernment, and who, lif»ving*now lyft their
sole depeudance, mult be in circumflances of
want; Ainong my penftoners, were many ag
ed and indigent persons, who had no other
means of support except the penfi on which I
gave them. (Signed) LOUIS.'.'
. Done at the Templi, January 20th, 1793.
Cambaceres—" Louis Capet has only made
these demands which you have now heard, to
the deputies of the executive council,becaufe
they did not inform him of the decree parted
yesterday on my proportion, in which the
greater part of his requests are anticipated.
I demand oti that ground, that we (hall pass
to the order of the day. The aflembly palled
to the order of the day.
Execution of Louis 16.
Paris, January 22.
Louis was Beheaded yesterday at i-he Place
de Louis XV. at a quarter past ten o'clock in
the morning. He was conduced thither in the
mayor*! carriage, accompanied by his confeflpr
and two gendarmes. Great ftlence was pjrferv-'
ed during the proceflion. but wberi'he resolved *<
the fatal spot, the noise of drums and trumpets
was great. He ascended. the fcaffold vuh firm*
ness, made a sign he had something to fay : lit
tle, however, was heard,on account of the noise,
except, 41 2 die innocent ! I forgive you all!"
The fcntence was inftantiy executed, and Vivt U
Nation refouridcd on all fides.
The whole place, and the avenues, weie filled
with troops of the litie.
A member of the convention, who voted fe»r
his death, was attacked a coffee house and
killed. This, it is feared, is but the beginning
of a fceneof bloodshed, which will not soon be
terminated. *
Extract from the Gazette or
Lk MoNiTtuß UNIVERSE!., a paper published
at Paris, dated Sunday the 23d of'Dfecem
v ber, 1794.
Sitting oj the National Convention, December 11ijl.
A letter from the Minister of Foreign Af
fairs, was read by a Secretary, in the follow
ing term;:
" Citizen President—The evidence of ta
lencs and civifm given by Citizen Geneft ie
the different millions with which he ha.s.been
char -ed, has isd the executive Council td de
termine to reward Ms aeal by nominating him
Minister Plenipotentiary to the United States
of America. His endeavors will be to
ftreu£then the bands of anion of the two na
tions ; an ohjeft which has been so much neg
lected by the former government.
" From the inftru&ions that were giren
by the former Miuiftry to the Agents in that
country, which the executive Council caused
to be laid before them, they have I'een with in
dignation, that, at the very time when the
good people of America expreSed to u? their
t'riezdfliip and "gratitude in the most atfec
tioaata manner, Vergenne* and Mon on {win
343
* tlnttiglifr ? 4 that it .\v*s not* ful table -to Franc*
' tp gpyft America a-11 the couiiilence of which
it was susceptible, becnulb-it would acquire a
ft r<? 3 jti> ] whi c!i it might probably be temptfw
to They therefore enjoined on their
agents a paifive conduit in regard to tJiat na
tion ; and to speak of nothing but tlie per*
fojial views the King for its profpevity.-—
The operations ol' war were directed by the
fame Machiavelian maxims. The fame du
pileity was employed in the negoclations of
peace; in which, when signed, the people for
\yhom we tad taken up arms altogether
neglected.
* l The National Convention will follow
another course. 11 has already manifefted the
d<?f:r£ of contracting a foHd alliance witb the .
► ArhqHcaJiS, which indutes jn? to. call tffthe
aUewtiep of the Convention then-engagement
to, by a letter which the President has
b«pn charged Jo write, their sensibility of the
getiprous succour which the United State?, :
and-in particular the state of Pennsylvania", ,
have given to the Colonies. If Citizen Geneft !
wfcre tks bearer of this letter, I am of opinion '
thais it.might have: a very good effect, and
facilitate hisnegociations."
t Ttis fvas a mi/lake, tic whole succour having J
been frotn, the United £tatet r . , Jj
I Tfce letter alluded to in tfoe foregoing, is as
follows 5
OFFICIAL LETTER, ' '
7V hf delivered, on the part of the frtnth RejwHic,
"i ' (q the United States of America.
" President of the United States of Nortli
• America,
" Amidst the ftnrmswhich buffet onr infant
liberty, ft is a comfort to the French Ilepub
lic,to'have communication with other Repub
lics founded on the fame principles as her
own. Our brothers of the United States, no
doubt, have heard, with gladness, the new re
volution, -which overthrew tie la!l obstacle
to ouMlibertyj; shit .revolution was necef
fatff- 'RbyaW 'wSVftHFesliflirljf, and irr every
cbriftitution where it exists, there is no true
liberty. Kih'gs and equality are incompati
ble witß each other; it is their business to
conspire against it&the sovereignty of nations.
" The United States of America will fiard
{ the fiipport which the ancient
French Court had afforded them to recover
theif independejice, was only the fruit of base
fpecnlation ; their glory offended its ambiti
ous views, ajid t he.ambafladors bore the cri.
orders of flopping the career of their
J* Niy, it is only between free nations that
fincetetund frate nal treaties fan be formed.
Thg liberty which Jthe French Republic wilhes
to restore to the nation; that Shall call for ber
afliftanee, will not' be polluted with similar
{tains: It (hall be pure like itlelf.
•<lk e imriirnfc diflance Which parts us,
prevents your taking, in this gloripus rege
neration of Europe, that concern which your
principles and past combats reserved to you-
Single and alone against the coalitionof Kings,
wprtSy : of beint
called your brothers; and the ignominious
rttreat pt their combined armies,Gemmappe,
Spite', Savoy, Flanders—all thefc fuccelles
o«|ht'to call to yonr remembrance Saratoga,
Trenton, and York Town.
" \Phen will the final term of our ftrugg'es
come if We do not yet know ; but, free Ame-
ric»n|„rely on our courage and perieverqnce ;
ntffa Frenchman fttalfremain, or they (hall
alf"be!frep. Liberty fliall become extinct in
Ettbptf,-ol- ourprinciple? (hall triumph every
where over the league of despots. They have
raited ftonns against us even iii our own he
mifpbere ; they have excited pur islands to
rebellion, but our principle? and our arms
will finally give them again calm profperiiy.
The United States have contributed towards
it, by the ample relief they have afforded for
our colonies, at a moment wlien France was
too remote to give them support. Thanks to
you, generous Americans, it-is the debt which
the gratitude of the French Republic dis
charges with hqartfelt fatisfa&ion.
" The time isdoubtlefs not far difbnt when
ihfaf from being a fuhjt'ft of eternal
; rivsllkip «nd war, w i" Olily be » further tic »-
"nicng. nations. Thp time is not fai distant
wben found policy {hall >lay down the bafit of
Cairtnierce, not on exclulive interests, but on the
; Conjoint interests of >11, and on the nature of
thiiigf. It depends on the courage of the Uni
ted States to accelerate that happy moment, and
the French republic will eagerly her con
currence tn all the efforts ther fhajl make for
meting the ■politic*) and commercial tie« of
two n»tioi», wh» can no longer have but one
common fculiment, since their principles and
interests are common."
■i I < •
Accounts from Martinque fay—Tranqui
lity is now perfip&ly re-eftabliflied in that
iflarrtf. The national tri-colourert flag was
hrnfted there on the 4th of January, immedi
at-efyafter the departure of the fk'et of roy
alittr., who havebeen the cause of much dip
| tirbw ce t ' >c colony. They consist of the
• thip La ITerme, the-frigate La Calypso, the
• corvette La Marefchal de Castries, a trtinf
port, and *fm all veflel. They have taken
refuse in'the Spanish I flam! of Trinadad, the
■ G«v»nnor of which finding hitu&lf much in
ictwnmoded by their visit, h*3 written home
,to Madrid to know what steps are to be ta-
Iken. The patriotic frigate La Felicite,
'Captain M. La Crofle, who was obliged to
fly to St. Lucia dnring the infurreftion, ar
rived'at St. Pierre the gd of February, and
?has brought M. Rochambeau, jun. son of bain
who Went to Cape-Fraocois, to succeed M.
Behajne, the ci-devant Governor. A small
veflil arrived at St. from France »n
the 7tli of February, after a pafiage of 22
jdav»^brings word that a lmall'fqnadron, na
dir the command of Capt. Duval, dcftiiicd to
restore order and tranquility to our iilandi,
was to fail ou tin 24th of January.
'AH tk; inrliafctitaljts wrlio laij iterated (i»v#
Wurnei! the nation*! flag iias tieer'hoiit
ecf, and tilings Iwgiu to wftr a piciiliiij; as
pert," • ' - r -
The Ililoxville Gazette fays—'>Uy 8
man \vhd arrived in town lull -week from
Me.oDlftrift, Ave are informed, that abor.t:
the middle of January fcren or eight Indian*;
crofted Cumberlandilivei to the north tide,
near the mouth of White's Creek (leven miles
from Nashville) and thare fell iu Wit«-
Gowcr, whom they ftred on and 1 nor tally
wounded ; he noiwjthftanding made J)h ef
tape to Hickman's flation, hi
in a few days.
The fame day a. man was wounded on the
south fide, near the fame place.
A writer iti the Virginia Chronicle speak
ing of French a&iirs, fays—thufe who have
traced the steps which have led to this revo
lution, will perceive, that all their futferings,
.and all thej.convullions n<nv agitating the
kingdom, haste proceeded, from the Qoeen'*
patronage of the American eaufe; and had
that sprung from her ?eaT for its freedom, it
would have been laudable ; bit on the con
trary, it arose from her-avowed enmity to
.the Englilh nation.—The King who Mr.
Burke extols .as amongst the heft of Monarchy
and aspofTeffing the of hearts, has him
. felf most cfientially conduced to destroy the
peace of his kingdom, and to endanger the
lives and royal profpe^ts-of his own immedi
ate family, by fantfioning the Hnion of the
Clergy, Nobles and Commons, intooue House:
his fatal connivance at this Ast, which de
stroyed degree, and consequently the vene
ration due bpth to, the propriety of rank, and
to which property is entitled—at the fame
moment unlinked atf order and subordination.
—The motives for the Queen's conduct were
fatally viadi&ive ; to the policy of LoyU
wretchedly temporising in that fit ft deltruc
tjye step, his prefept lamentable situation is
afcribable alone.
We learn that Briffbt dc V/arville voted in
the National Convention in favor of referring
the final sentence on the Kii>g to the primary
assemblies. Gen. Ait.
Houdon, the famous French sculptor, wfro
paid a visit to this cotfntfy a'fi-w years ago ta
procure alikenefs of the President, and who
was employed bv the state of Virginia, to ex
ecute a marble ilatue of that American hero
and Catefrfian, had completed the fame by the
end of November laffi. it may, therefore,
soon be expected. Gen. Adv.
Extrafl of a kttnfrom KingJon, / Jam.) d.ited Feb.
16, rccivcd fa the big Ann, Cdpt. C Qrgt.
" Captain Villiam Bligh arrived here the
6th of February, in the fh'p Providence, ftom
Otaheite, with 347 plants of the bread fin it
tree, 332 of which have been left in thij. jf.
land, the remainder, I underfta»d, are in*
tended for the King's gardens at Kew.
" Belides the pllpts anoveuientionsd, Cap
tain Bligh has brought 248 plants of different
kinds; among which aie the Otaheite apple,
(one of the moll delicious and high-flavactd
fruits in the world) the mjngo, China lemon,
almond, *nd two nutmegs, which have beep
planted, #nd it iiexpected \ViH grow. He has
also brought two natives with him; one of
them came with an intention ofgoing to En
gland, the other frays here to assist in the cul
tivation ef the plants."
COMMUNi€AT!ON.
Continual dropping wears away (loner
The unceafmg cry of mifconduft and corrup
tion in our government, cannot fail to en.
flame the minds of jnany .citizens. It would
be curious as well as ufeful to throw into a
catalogue—it would be a very long one the
barefaced falflioods which have been printed
in this city, and re-printed in almost every
part of the United States, agavnft the govern
ment, within two years palt. There hfcarce
ly a (ingle great measure of Congress which
has not had a host of lies going before it, like
an advanced guard, to make the people fnf
peft and abhor the legislature of the union.
Still the good sense of the people overpower?
this host, and the laws of the union are fat
witted to. The more the government
degraded in fume diftrirfts by calumny and
fallhood, the mors is it»to the honor of Ame
rica that the laws are ftiN held in refpetitiy.
the people at large-
Married at Columbia, Wc stern Territory, by
the Rev. John Smith, Captain John AtJtiiSrong,
of the firft. United Stales' 'regiment, to Mil's T.
G"forth, daughter 6t William Goforth,Efq. one
of thr judges of tWcommop p!ea» for the coiirw
ty ol Hamilton—A young |?.dy of excellent edu
cation, and poflefling every mental acconjpli la
ment requisite to infuie happinels in the mauird
Hate.
Next Saturday's Cazetle u ill contain an inter til
ing and particular account of tie fate of Col. Hardin,
Major Trueman. and the other pitrjtm who u ere
murdered by the Indians, tubt/e acting under the/ini
tio* of Flags oj truce.
> SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVEDuf the PORT ijj PHILADELPHIA.
Btig Ann, George, Jamaica
Dispatch, Sheriff, St. Vincent*
Sch'r Franklin, Hifp*n!oia
tank-, J-nrs Charirfton
i__i
— J
Hvcior, Cad en head, -
SloOp Brilliant. Ruflcll,
Patrick Hcury, Skinntr,
FRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, iB/jj
g prr Cents, ir t J s -
Deferred, 11^5
Full /bares Bank H. S, 16 per cnit. prem
$3"* Wart ei (0 compUai files 0/ fhij G+sxUf mrw"
ber\ jg aTrd 80-s'« pence each uiU +4 by tkt
Editor j«r a few qf tkoje numbers.
Cdrolioa
Triniaad
Vn 6 iuiiMorse's Geography,
Bevifed, corrected, and greatly enlarged, with many
additional M a rs, will engraved.
lit a few weeks wiH be pnbliflud,
By THOMAS and ANDREWS, Fauft'a Statue,
No. 4£j Newbury-Street, Boston,
In iwo Volumes, large OOavo. .
ANEW Edition of the AMERICAN
Geography : Being the laigcii
and the b* ft fyftero of Giography ever pub
-I'ftird : Or a complete GEOGRAPHY of the
WORLD, brought down to the piefent time.
in two>a*T».
Tie General (anientt art—
PART J.-Of Astronomy, asconne&ed with,
and inirodu&ory to the fcieoce of Geography :
under this head will be given an actount of the
ieveral aftionomical systems of the World, and
a paiticular description of the true one. Artable
of the diameters, periods, See. of the several
Planets in the solar fyfttin—an account of the
Corm is and ftxed stars.
Of Geography—its ufc and progTefs—
figure, magnitude and motion of the Earth—
Daft tine ol ihe Sphere— Geographical circle?—
Division* of the Earth into zones and climates
—methods of finding ti< latitude and longitude
of places from ccleitial observations—Globes,
and their use—with a number of the nioft ufe
fut arid entertaining Geographical Problems and
Theoiems— Maps, and their ufc—fouices of hiat
andcold i ---thetiry of Ihe winds'and tides
ofiriitro in different countries—natural divisions
of the Earth—account of the Gregorian or new
stile, &c.
America—lts discovery by Columbus
general description of the Continent, in Vhich \S
a- lengthy difcuflion of the question, Whe«,
whence, and by whom, was America firft peo
pled ? With a long and entertaining account of
the Indians,and the latedifcoverieaon the north
west coafl, Scz.—North A*ierica —chrono-
logical account of its difcovcry and settlement*,
its divisions — Danish America, British
America, Unitjed States of America—
general description of them, including a history
of the late war, and many other ufeful and en
tertaining matters. South America*—us di-'
vrfions, particular description of its several pro
vinces and countries. Weit India Islands,
&c.
This pan of the work wiM be illustrated'
by maps of the countries defcribcd, trora the
correfteft copies.
PART ll.—Containing every thing essential
which is contained in the best and latest quarto
edition of Guthrie's and other Bxitilh Geogra
phies, with felettions from celebrated naviga
tors, travellers and refpe&able authors of other
nations, &c.
Of Eu RdP£ in general—its gtand difHions,
particular geographical defcriptians of its seve
ral Kingdoms and Republics, &c. Of Asia—
its situation, boundaries, general history, parti
cular descriptions of its several divifiobs, &c.
Of Africa—lts general history, boundaries,
grand divisions, &c. Also, new difcovertes,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tically arranged—Chronological Tabte of re*
markablc events, dii'coveries and inventions, lift
of men of learning and genius, with other ufctul
miscellany.
%* This part wiU also be illustrated with
maps of the countries defcribcd.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Author is sensible that the fir ft edition
of his American Geography (which mikes Part
f. of Ihe above work) was in m-any inftanc®s de
fective, in others■erroWeo'ffS) and'infomc offen
five. It ha« been his endeavour, as it was his
desire, in the present edition, to fupplv the defi
ciencies, correct the errors, and meliorate the
ofFenfive pans of the last. 'To alTift him id this
business, he has received many valilablfc commu
nications from the heads of departments in the
general government, and from gentlemen of re*
fpeftabilily in the several Hates. The descrip
tion of foreign countries (which composes Part
U. of the above work) has been carefully com
piled from the most approved writers ort Geo
graphy, and ufeful information introduced from
tne discoveries of the latest Navigators, Travel*
lers, and refpeflable authors. Indeed, no pains
nor eXpense have been (pared to,render this work
the moll complete, accura.te, and ufeful of any
ever offered to the public.
TO BE SOLD, ,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BR EED.
HE -was impoited from England m Novem
ber, feveniecn hundred and eighty-fix, and
is now ten years old ; he is a bright bay, with a
blaze,fifteen handsone inch high, is well form'd,
has a great deal 6f bone and ftrcngth, and his
action equal to any horse, His colts are well
approved of in the different parts of the State
where he has flood, of which any person inclined
t© purchase can inform themselves.—Enquire
of the Printer.
February 18, 1793.
City of Wafliington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this City will be of
fered for sale at au&ion, by the Commis
sioners, on the 17th day of September next. —
One fourth part of the purchase money ir to bt
paid down, the tcfidue at thtee equal -annua 1 pay
ments with yearly intcrefton the whole princi
pal unpaid. „
JOHN M. GANXf, Clerk to the Cem'rs.
Extract of an Ast of the General Aflcmbly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City of Wafhirtgton.
♦* Be it enabled, That any foreigner may by
Jeed or will, hereafter to I: made> take and hold lands
vithin that part of-theJaid Territory which lies with'
n this State t in the fame manner as if he was a citi
ten of this §tate ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by hiri % and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations t as if he and they were citizens
if thii State i Provided, That no foreigner Jhall,
\n virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
Itivilegetya citizen/*
Jan. 19.
PROPOSALS
For re.printing a new, entertaining and
inftruftivc Work, intitlcd,
T H X
Errors of Education.
I
BY MRS. ELIZA PARSONS,
Inj!ability of mind impedes our road (jpnticnos-,
and youth, if not animrtedby ixas»li,m
illujtratt Ihe precepts iktui, totll
ever Jail into E-RROR.
The European edition of this worV., printed
last year, fells at ias. the twt> volumes',<faxdf&t
copies, ij any % tele had at that price ) —This jiffi
American, edition, which (hall be well cx^cut4f3 f '
on an enure new type and fine paper, wilt k*
delivered 10 Inbfcribers in one volume of about
420 pages tamo, neatly bound, a*-a French Crown
eacji, to be paid on receiving the book, whicfc
will be put to press as loon as a fußieient num.
ber of subscriptions are obtained to defray th<
expense of the undertaking.
S&bjlriptions will be received at the RoMore,
oj Mejfrs. J\ Dob(on, W. Young, J. Crvkjkank, ani
B. Joknfon, and at Mr. RtnryKaramitifsMo. 24,
North 1 hird-jlrcet, Philadelphia; byM(Jf.R.Hodgr y
S. Campbell, and T. Alien, Bookjdlers, Neto-York 5
by 'McJJrs. Day 3 Co. Printers, Trenton'? try the
Subjcnber, in Burlington-, and by others in whoje
hands JubJuipixon -papers are lodged.
£eb. \ 8,1793. ISAAC NEALE.
Dist ri ct of Pin iryt l v ani a, to wit.
-"-N T3 £IT REMEMBERED, That on
( Seal. A the thirteenth day of 'March, in
\ / th 6 feventeentb year of the Indepen-
dcnce of the Udited States of America,
Thoma's Dob'sOn j v of the said Difttlft, hath de
posed in this Offk.e v , the Tnle of a Book, cfie
Right thereof he claimi as Proprietor, in the
words following, to wit. •"»' . " '
•• An f.nqniry hotv jar the Pwnijhrhintvj'Deaths
u is neeejfary in Pennfylwinia. IVflh AfUi ttihd
•* Jl/ujlratians. By William Bradford, Efq,-
44 To which is added, an Accon.nl ofthe Gaoland
" Penitentiary House oj Philadelphia, and of the
41 interior Management thereof. By CaJeb
44 Lownes, oj Philadelphia» IJ we enqUtYt !
44 into the Causes oj all human Corruptions, toe
44 Jha.llfind that they proceed frm the btpunity
44 of Crimes, and not from the Moderation of Pu
u r.ifhments."— — Montefq.
In conformity to the- Ast of the Congress of
the United States, intituled, u An A£l for the
Encouragement-os • Learning, by fcciiring the
Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the
Tiroes therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELI,,
. Clerk ps the Diftrift of Peanfylvartia.
The above work is fold i* Charleft<>n iy
William Price Young : Richmond, by Archibald
Currie : Baltimore, by James Rice : NewYorky
by Thomas Allen : Bojlon y by David Weft. ~- r
TO be SOLD, or LEASED *
rok SEVEN 6R TEN YEARS,
THE FOLLOWING
H O U S E S.
ONE on Walnut-street, tie&r Fourth-street,
23 feet front, has two parlours below, the
« front one 21$ by feet, the back parlour is
18 by 14 feel. The front rotim up flairs is
by 17$ feet. There are five good chambers in
'■ this hfoufe, besides the garret is Aivided into
i three rooms, in two of them there are fire
! places.
The Other Hb'ufe i* #7 feet upon Walnut--
; street, and 52 feet upon 4th ftrCet ;* these are two
\ good parlours below, one of them 4 k by 60 i-t
' feet, the other 25 by 18 1-2 feet, and seven com
plete bed-chambers; b*fides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of Which rooms have-fire* •
; places. The kitchens are good ones, and ire
i under the bouses ; the largest house has affo a
\ house-keeper's room. It is intended there (h*U ;
be a communication from both of these houses
to a neighbouring ice-Koufe,'fufficifmly Urge 10-
fiipply 3 houses. Within $Q yards of these
houses, there will be compleat stables and coach
\ houses, for b£th houses; they will be finilhcd
' in the most compleat manner, and the keys
ready to be delivered early in the furomer.;
On payinglrtrifrhe money "tlbwn (If
other half may be paid by instalments, or t'ae
whole may remain for 5 years, paying inte&ft
and giving security on the premises.
For terms of sale or lease, apply to the S'Ub
fcriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has Jor SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
, In this city amounting to twenty-five pounds
Gxteen (hillings and fix-pence, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS, that will contain two
and a half and three and a half bufhelS.
Jan. \g t 179 a. ep2m *
F O R S A L K,
By, the Sitbjcriber, at Walnut-Street Wharf,
BILL, of EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediate ule, in pipes & quarter casks,
TENERIFFE WINE, in pipes, .Li
SHERRY WINE, in quarter cads, ./ !
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proof, g I
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM, *
Two Bales 10-4 BLANKETS, and V ■ 1
A Bale of MUSLINS,
A new 13.4 iio fathoms long.
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, jarr t x 793. tfint
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given, That the £om>.
mittioners appointed by the Board of
Trutlees of the Univcrfity of North-Carolina,
will attend at'tfte town or Hillfborough, on the
18th, 19th and fidth days of ApriJnext, for the
putpofe of receiving proposals from such per
sons as may be disposed to undertake the.fiuil4-
ings of the University.
FREDERICK HARGETT, Chairman.
344
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be bad at SAMUEL COOPER't Ferry.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Risolvsd,
THAT any person refidiog in Europe, who
(halt authorize the President, Divt&ftrs and
Company of ihe Bank of »he United States, to
receive annuities, or Interest arifrng .from ihe
pul>lic debt oi the United States of. America)
(hall from time.to time have authority to draw
on the (aid Prefidcnt, Dire&ors and Company,
!• ibe amount of the monies by the** reccwat,
which drafts (hail be paid wi:hout dcduMiov
aud Irce oi expence—Or,
Hie Preftdenl, Diieftors and Company, if re.
.ucftcd, will remit the monies by-them received
to any part of Eutope, free of cx pence and with*,
out dedu&ion, in Bills as Exchange at their cur
rent value, and at the rifle oi the pcifon to whom
the fame &i*U be remitted.
By the Prcfidcnt and Dirc&ors,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
AnVrdinance for 'bearing the uapuntll
Payrtient of the Monies due on the
Subscriptions to the Society for ejla
blifhing Ufeful Manufactures.
WHEREAS doubts have heretofore arisen
with regard to the power of the Society
to annex any penalties to the don-payment oi the
infaflments, agreeably to the terms tjf the sub.
fcriptions. And whereas the Legislature at their
last feflions, patted a supplement to the original
law of incorporation, removing the said doubts,-
and fully authorizing the DtTettors to pa fa any
ordinance U>ey may think proper, to compel the
punctual payment of the said fubferiptions.
Sec, x. Beit ordained, thcrcforci b\ the Governor
and. Dirtflors of the Society for efiablifhing Ufeful
MdnufaThai if any fubferiber or hisafiigna,
(hall ncslc£l to pay the second pay mint of his,
jthgir refpe&ive. subscriptions, together
with th* lawful interest a riting thereon, either to
the cashier of the- United-States Bank Office of
Bifcount and Bepoftt, at caihier
Of the Bank of - New-York* the calhier of the
Bank of the United-States,*in of
John Bayard, Esq. in the city ol New-Brunf
wick, in the state of New.Jerlcy, on or be tore
the thirteenth da>y of April next : That then and
in that cafe, all and every Chaie or (hares of such
person or peiTons so ncgle&ing to makc p»y~
menu as aforcfaidf and the monies by >them pre
viously paid, (Hall be forfeited,andforever there
after veiled in the said DireAofs, and their fuc
cefTors, for the common benefit of the said So
ciety.
Sec. 2. And be it further ordained by the authority
for*/aid t ,.That if- any Pubfcfiber, or his afligns,
hall neglect to pay the third payment ol his* her
Dr t-heir refpc&ive fubferiptions, together with
the lawful intereil arising thereon, on. or before
the thirteenth day of May next. That then and
in that cafe all and every (hare or lhares ot such
person or persons so neglc&ing to make fucli
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by them
previously paid, Ihall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter vested in the said Dire&ors, and their
fucceflbtt, for the cotttmon benefit of the ft id
? Society.
- Sec. 3.' Audit it further ordained by the authority
{ afirefaid, That if any fubferiber, or hi* afligns,
} fiialfneglett to pay the fourth payment of his,
j her, or their re fpe&tve fu'bfcriptions,on ot before
I the thirteenth day of jjiy next, that then and in
: that cafe, all. and every ihare or shares of such
person or persons, so negle&ing to make such .
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by them
j previously paid, Ihall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter veiled in the said Dircttors, and their'
fucteflors, for tHe cohimon hertfcfif ot the said
Society. NICHOLAS LOW, Governor.
P*]Jtdat Kew-Arky 20th February <793.
(Counterfignedy ELISHA BOULHNOT,
i Secretary pro tempore.
BE IT KNOWN;'that the proportion of spe
cie "which may -be paid on the rfcfpe&ive pay
ments of "every originah (haTe,-by such Stock
holders at prefer paying a moiety of said Jharet
in specie, in lieu of deterred debt, is as follow* :
• > < . I T /* -r Do/S. CtS.
On the 13th" of April, 4793, with in
ter* ft from 13th July, 179 a, 7 63
On-the of May, *793» in "
f tom January, 1793, 7 86
On the 13th July, 1793, \ ' A ' ogr »
Stockholders in- the laid Society arfc-hereby
notified, that fc, the fnbfcfribety aw duly autho
rized to make the requtfifle tiidorfements upon
the certificates of Qiares which they-may reflec
tively hold, and that books of transfer are open
ed at my oftice, in Front-street, New-York.-
> NICHOLAS LOW.
February* 1, 1793.
N K W TEAS.
IM V $RI A L,H YSO N &SO U CHONG
of the very firft quality,and latest impowatton
from Canton, «ia New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets,
N. B. A few Boxes of the above HYSON/or ftlt.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-street, ,Ni w-Yor k,
THESubfcriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the. PURCH ASE & SALE or
STOCKS oil COMMISSION,be g «Ieave to of
fer hit fervjce» to hit friends and others, in the
line ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their bulinefs, may depend
upon having ittranfaded with the utmost flde
nty and dispatch. ~
Ordets from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ltriaiy
attended to.
LEONARD B
PLANS
OF TH e .
City of Washington,
Sold by the Bookseiiers,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, £# CRUKSHAXK.
War Department,
J NFORMATIOX i.
L trwa **4? £t £
niortth*o| their »nn<ia]! m !r re « n 'itled fo r f l;t
«s. r .b..
on lhf S .hd»y Ot March , 70 , w ;j| hIT j
within" <t? "**•£
regulation, vi* '•*»« lbe-,6,1
tTety jppliction .for p.vmrn# m „n i
co ?iT Tht by ,c '
« Invalid, and,lcprum.u/.SrSr.TS
M such, he IS >nm>i)iy .mulrd. '
fo,„. AniWiV " lo IU following
M ,h c ' me ' one as *He Mice#
of the county ttf "i the ibte of J
made owh.that he << the f.tne A. B. to
oj'S"" 1 ceiuficaie in bi* paficihon ».►
en, of wluch-ithe following 11 a. copy (the cer
he" v 7d ,Vtnl,y ; hC ft4le be '«4
he fc.vca (regiment, cctp. ot vefMV« rtf
ime he waidtUbled, and thai lit now ra«de»
In cafe an Invalid fttonld , pp | y for p.v'roenr
byijn attorney, the (aid aiKirvv, Wi«iei \| le
certificate and oath before recited, must wodtice
a fpccia) letter of attorney agreeable 10 thi fol
lowing form: .
1, A. B. of cotintv of (late of
do hereby conftttute and appoint C. D. of
my lawful attorney, trt receive ™ my behalf of
my penf>on*tor fix months, a> an Invalid
of the United statei,.tiom the *th day of Sep
tember 179 a, and ending the 4th day of March
»793-
Signodind.SiwkJ
m the Prcfeocc ef i
Acknowledged before me >t
A pptfca li of .s of e£ec »tpr sen d admi nHlritort
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpetfive offices, and rifo of the time the
Invalid died) whose peulioa they m*y ptaim.
By Command df the Present
of tht United; Si^ps,. r?v tv
H,KNQX f Secretary at .War-. .
By THO MAS .ft HnSON, DJVjB
SraAR t r,k DANIEL CMMLL,
•»»)
Comm 155i'onj. (fa appointed, tn,
prepare the Public Buildings See. within ihc.
City of Wajkington, for the reception of Can
grefs, ■ and tor their permanent residence after
the yeartjßo©-~
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0? THE
Federal £ity.
50,000 *j dollar, hYe $504*00 dollars.
I «w
i Sup«il>Ho<cLwWj battisiT. • ~
I; ouf hoafqj, &s,4tc.locolt J. ~K . .
II 1 Cist Prue
> iiket
i dims
l.dot®
S diuoi
10 4itVo
so dilfo
•? 1 TO" ditto
! tafy dirt®
J 400.
ii t,ooo ditto
15,666 dftl©
*6,737 Prires
33,263 Blanks
50,000 i' J ! . . x. 1 •
By this fchcme at kajt the amount of the tjd
ets will fettirn to the fortiftt&le adverittffett, and,
yet the fedfcfralCity will gain its objett tberibjj
in a magnifawt building dtfigned both for.pub-
Jic and private convenience.
Although some expence must neceflarily at-,
tend the cd*di»&ing of the fbtwft (wtfi&l ex
pence will be takenfrom the -principal-priz*) the
Commiflioners having agreed to present. at tCe
turn a iiifiicieot quantity x)f, excellent
together with the best adapted lpts for the, hot? t'
and for the out-houfes, the virtue of the .lottery.?
entire may be Fairly rated at fomtking rnort Mm
par: In threimportaiit inft»nee f it wulibcfouwUr
on. examination, to exceed all ths lotterica
have ever been offered 10 the Public in this or.
perhaps in any other count ty. The key* of the
Hotel, when compieat, Will be delivered td tb£
fortunate possessor of the ticket £rats it aagainlk
its number.—All the. other !pri®es will'be*
without dedudwn % in one month ajttf the, drawing* ty
the City Tceafurer at Walhington, or at Aicji
Bank trr Banks as may be hereahw announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventurers.'
The drawing will commence on
9th of September next, at the City ot Wa(hicg
on. • " .
Tickets may be had of Coi
tTreafurer of Waihingtoo *, fhayff- $$ Jhfptt'i ot
Charleston, South-Carolina; Gideon flenifin, Sa
vannah ; Meflr's. James Weft & Co. Bamrnore ;
Mr. Peter Oilman', Bo ft on; and at
places as will be hereafter published.
Ni B. ONE HUNDRED DOLMRS
be given for the bell Plan pf»n elegant and c«>-
venicnt HOTEL or INN, with hot and colA
Baths, Subles, and other out haute, (/ freJtnUA
otortcjorc the laib °j April next', lild 4 " r *"
t'erence wiH be given to the Artist for » von
trafl, provided he be duly qualified l»
cnmpleat Jiis plan. The ground on
the Hotel and out houses are to be erected, win
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, wi
back avenue to the stables, &c. SeflioiM an
estimates of the «*penfe will be expe
with the elevations, &C. compleat; aitd s°'°,
dollars must be regarded by the Arch.tedlaitne
utmost limit iu the expense intended of
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the City.
~ IawIJJM
•EEC
March 6, 1793
•yN '< I*4
«4,00#
4o,ee«>
i&flear.
• ISifiO&r, .
i«.9W,
10,060
ictfte
IC,CA» .
19.W0, .
70,0*0.
150,040
3,0e0 ire
i,oos
gpo
*00
(P
*3<
id
10
,1 ,>. I.
Dollars 350,d00>