©a 0(1
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDN ESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FtNNO, No. 34, NUPTH FIFTH.STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 87 of Vol. IV.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY EVENING, March I.
Subflance of the observations made by Mr. W. Smith,
on the debutes cn theJallowing refo/ulion y viz.
RESOLVED, that the Secretary of the
Treafurv has omitted todifcharge an el
fential duty of his office, in failing to give
Congress official information in due time of
the monies drawn by him from Europe into
the United States ; which drawing commenc
ed in December, 1793, and continued till Ja
nuary r 753, and of the caufss of making such
drafts.
Mr. Smith faicl, that after the vote which
hadjull prevailed by so considerable a majori
ty 011 the preceding resolutions, the commit
tee could not with any propriety criminate
the Secretary of the Treasury lor failing to
give the information alluded to, because by
that vote it had been eftablHhed that the Se
cretary had only acted under the authority of
the President, and conformably to his inftruc
tio« 5 tf tiicrs bad been amifljon lr> com
municate information to that omis
sion was surely not chargeable to the Secieta
ry. But it had been already clearly Ihewn
by documents in the poftelfion of the house
that the neceflary information had been com
municated. The Treasurer's accounts which
had been from time to time laid before the
house, exhibited the amount of monies pro
ceeding from the sale of bills, and the Secre
tary's report of 1791, conveyed full informa
tion of the drawing. It was true there was a
sum of about 630,000 dollars, the proceeds of
bills which, as had been remarked by a gen
tleman (Mr. Madison) did not appear in the
Treasurers account, but this was owing to
the sales of the bills by the bank not having
been closed at the time the lalt quarterly ac
count was rendered, and confequentlv that
sum could not appear in the treasurer's ac
count. [Mr. Madison said he had not
to blame the treasurer.l '
Mr. Sn.kh The gentleman,
hou«-<vrpiaa attributed milconduet to the
Secretary, for withholding information of the
amount of monies in the treasury, accruing
from foreign loans,when directed by the house
19th Jauary, 1792, to report whether the ex
isting revenues were adequate to face the ad
ditional expence of the Indian war. Mr.
Smith could not forbear expressing great sur
prize at this remark of the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. Madison) when he recollected
what had been just before said by the fame
gentleman in fupportof the former resolution.
The gentleman on that occasion, in his at
tempt to disprove the right of the Secretary,
cx-ofncis to superintend ths monies derived
from the foreign loans, had endeavored to ef
tablifli a nice diftindtion between the ordinary
internal revenues of the country and the re
fourc£.s resulting from foreign loans. The
law constituting the Treasury Department,
he had said, gave the Secretary power only
over the revenues, which embraced onl> the
ordinary relources, whereas loans were dif
tin<fl things, the management of which was
specially entrusted by law to the supreme ma
gistrate, and in relation to which the lecreta
ry could exercise no authority whatever that
was not derived from the President. The
gentleman now argued that the secretary was
blameable in not giving information of the
state of these extraordinary resources, which
were not within his department, when only
called upon toftate the amount of tHe ordina
ry revenues, which were within his depart
ment. He left it to the gentleman to recon
cile this contradi<stion ; for certainly his doc
trine was erroneous on a former occasion, or
it mull be so now ; if the monies obtained
from foreign loans were to be deemed the re
venues of the country, then th?y fell of course
under the management of the head of the
treasury department, and it was wrong in
the gentleman, to impute mifcondudt to the
secretary for exercising a legal authority ;
if on the contrary those monies weie viewed
as an extra resource, and not within the pur-
View of the (ecrelary's functions, then it was
wrong to censure him for not communicating
a {late of those monies when required only to
report the ordinary revenues.
Without admitting the foundnels ofthedif
tin&ion set up by the gentleman from Virgi
nia, Mr. Smith (aid that it was never in the
intention of the house, nor in the idea of any
individual member, to call for a Kate of the
monies proceeding from the foreign loans,
when they palled the order of the 19th Janu
ary, 1792-
That order was in these terms, " Ordered
that the Secretary of the Trealury be direct
ed to lay before this house, such information
with rff|Ktl to the finances of the United
States, as will enable the legislature tojudge
whether any additional revenue will be necefl
farv in consequence of the proposed increase
the niilitaryeftr.blifhment." Tbiscallwas
coniplicd with, for the iecretary laid be
fcre the home an eftiuiate of tlie internal re
venues, wliich unquefiionably were the only
Saturday, March 30, 1795.
revenues in contemplation of the hoiife at the
time, and the house being fatisfied that they
were incompetent, laid additional duties.
The house knew as well as the Secretary
that loans had been made, and that monies
had under them, been drawn into this coun
try ; but they knew that those monies had
been specially appropriated to the finking
fund, and it never entered into the ideas of*
any member to divert them from that bene
ficial object, in order to apply them to the
current service : 'Twas not to be preftuned
that the secretary would have recommended
such a diversion.
To impute blame to him for not conutiuni
cating the amount of monies drawn from
time to time, there nmft have been fbme Jaw
or order of the house requiring the communi
cation, or it (tiuft have been neceflary to some
object depending before the house. What
law or order of the house made it neceflary I
None : The law authorized the Joans and pre
scribed their objects; the reft was mere ex
ecutive bijfinefs ; and no communication was
neceiTary to any me a sure depending before
the House.
But though the Secretary would not have
been censurable for omitting tci give the in
formation, the truth was, that the Prefideut's
speech of Bth December 1790, the fccretary's
report of 25th Feb', and the a£t of the 3d of
March J7gi, were conclusive proofs that the
legislature knew that the proceeds of the loans
were in a train of being brought to the Unit
ed States, and the accounts of receipts and
expenditures presented the fir ft week of the
felllon informed the house that a large sum
had been drawn for, and the treasurer's quar
terly account contained further information
on the fubjeft, all which was prior to any call
of the house for such information. Hence
Mr. Smith deduced, that it was not a fadl that
the secretary had failed to the informa
tion, .as in the refolution,and that even
had he so failed, would not haVe been cen
* furable for a breach of an %flential duty of his
officer
It had been said by a member from Penn
lylvania (Mr. Findiey) that the lateness of
the information from the secretary, made it
inconvenient togo into an enquiry of his offi
cial conduct sb near the cloie of the feflion.
To this, Mr. Smith replied, that he did not
expert such a remark »Vom ~f
the house. ir the gentleman had not been
prepared for the enquiry or thought it an
improper season to enter upon it, why did he
fecorrd the motion for bringing forward the
charges ? It'fufpicion had so long existed a
gainst the integrity of the fecietary, why was
not information called for at the beginning of
the feflion ? Why was the call delayed till the
feflion was within a few weeks of its termi
nation ?
It was admitted that the secretary had
obeyed the order of the house with wonderful
alacrity aiad promptitude; it was indeed
strange that the gentleman, who brought for
ward the charges Ihould be the firft to com
plain that there was not time for their consi
deration.
Mr. Smith concluded by noticing the ob
servation of Mr. Mercer and Mr. Madison,
that the opinion of the house on the preceding
resolutions would not change the truth of
fa<sls, and that the public would ultimately de
cide whether the fecretarf's conduct was cri
minal or not. This, said Mr. Smith, was like
the conduct of a prosecutor, who having cho
sen his jurifdi<stion, and being nonsuited, wifil
ed to appeal to another tribunal; why were
the resolutions brought before the house ?
Was it not to fub'ftantiate the truth of them
by a vote ? And bad the prosecution succeed
ed, wouid the secretary have had an appeal to
the public ? No, the resolutions would have
been sent to the President, and the secretary
would have been removed, disgraced, and ru
ined forever, without appeal.
(Debate to be continued.)
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
An account tj the fate of (olovel Hardin, Major
Tr u e ma k, andfeveral other perjons, who were
hi/led by the Indians, while bearing Flats oj Truce
to the hojlile Tribes—as containedin a Letter from
William Goforth, Esq. of Cincinnati,
Wejiern Territory, to a Gentleman in this City.
" the 8;h January, 1793, William Smally,
W who hMj accompanied Major Trueman
on hii embafiy to the Indian Nations, was be
fore me, and gave me the following accoutit of
hi» journey, to wit.—That they left Fort Wafti
ington about the 26th or 27th of May, 1792
that thev were bound to the Maumee towns,
but fell about 60 miles below said towns, near
to the town of Glaiie, whichis fituatcd on a
point of land formed by the Maumee and Glaize
rivers; that when thev left Fort Walhington,
their companv confided ot Major Trueman, him
fclf, and the Major's waiter ; that about 30 miles
before they arrived at the town of
Glaize, thev fell in with three Indians, an
elderly man, the other a young man, and the
third a boy of abojjt 11 or 15 years of age, who
were cncampcd on their hunting ground by the
fide of a little trace ; the Indians allied them to
encamp with them (tins was fuu about two hours
345
'■ t.
high, being t,he eighth dav after .they. left Fort
Wafhmgton) telling the Major tlfev wouM go
into the town with ihrm the next morning;
the Major agreed to encamp wnh them ; they
made a flipper of chocolate, and asked the In
dians to partake with them ; thart all three of
the Indians cat supper with them,and appeared
very friendly ; that Major Trueman informed
the Indians of the bufiuefs they were on, and
read over the speech to them, which he(Smallv)
interpreted to them, and with which they ap
peared to he pleated ; but they were none
of the Chiefs, and could not tell how it would
be approved of, and that they must go into the
town. Major Tiurman and the oldest man fat
and talked and fmolted till near midnight—that
the Indian seemed very chearful and jocose—
after which the Major wishing to lay down, the
old Indian spread a skin lor the Major, and for
each of them ; the Major and the waiter laid
down; he (Smally) himfelf fat up some time
talking with them ; alter which the old Indian
told him to ask his Captain if he would be wil
ling that one of them should be tied, faying the
two boys would be afraid, they could not sleep,
fet'.tjw there is three of you and but two of us,
counting ihe Indian boy, as ol no confluence ;
that he then informed the Major what the Indian
had be*u fayiog, on which jWcijor Trueman 10M
him to inform them that they might tie bis wai
ter; the Indian then tied the waitei, girding
his elbows backward, and made them fad with
an old hopos, and th< - tied his feet across each
other with a bridle; rhe waiter then lav down,
after which the old Indian came and fat down
by him, and began to talk again with great seem
ing friendship and chearfulnefs ; that he then
asked Smally to po and fctape fomr baik off a
small beech bush which was about two or three
roc!s from the fire, but within the light of it, in
order to mix with his tobacco for smoking;
that he went and scraped the bark, and brought
it to him, and then laid down with his head
within about a foot of the Indian's thigh ; that
the Indian then took up his gun and set it on the
breech, and was observing what an ugly gun it
was, and said it was so bad he could hardly kill
any deer with it ; that he happened to turn his
head about (but cannot favfor what cause, whe
ther to look about or to spit) that his head being
turned, the Indian immediately brought down
the muzzle and (hot Major Trueman—the ball
entered his left breall, and came out at the small
of the back, which killed him immediately. ;
the Major only just turnrd, he heard him fetch
one groan ; that he himfelf jumped u£ and ran,
-2x»l Wc±ii-ixd_a_Larcc lar>lit>:r, the young Indian
man then took up his gun to moot him—that he
flood behind the tree and begged and rrafoned
the cafe with him, the young fellow, for about
two minutes, as near as he can iecolle&; that
the Major's waiter, who had been tied, llartled
and hioke the old hopos with which his arms
had been pinioned, and got his feet loose and
ran; that the old Indian ran after him, and
brought him back to the fire ; a fcuffle enl'ucd,
when the waiter cleared Imnfelf and lau off
again; the old Indian caught him, and brought
him back a fccond time, during which time rhe
young Indian was trying to lhoot him (Smally)
the old Indian then called to the young Indian
man to come and shoot the waiter, faying he
was Wronger than he was ; that the young man,
after bring called several times, ran up and (h<>t
him ; the old man then ran up to the fire and
called so him, who was on the opposite fide at
but a small distance, and within the light of the
fire ; that he called to him to come up to him ;
that Smally told him if fie came theie, he would
kill him ; he answered, he would not hurt him ;
he told him that a little while ago he had
him he would not hurt any of them— but that
now he had killed them ; that he then went to
wards him about half way, when he said fit
down—he anfweied he would not, for then he
would run up and tomahawk him—the Indian
answered he would not, and persisted five or fix
times that be should fit down; that he still re
fufed, faying, do you fit down, and then I will;
that he then fat down, and they reasoned the
cafe-for near a quarter of an hour—when he
asked him what he had killed them for ? He
answered, then horses, and what they had;
faying, if he had taken them to town, he should
get nothing—that now he should get ali. That
the old Indian then got up and went and ftript
the Major ; and the other went and ftript the
waiter; the old Indian then told the boy to go
and scalp them, which hedid,fetching the scalps
to him, who threw them down by him, and
told the boy to go and get a couple of little
(licks, and bend them round like a hoop, and
tie the scalps in and dry them. That he then
took out all the things and looked them over,
and burnt all the papersexcept the speech, which
was faflencd to the belt. After which they di
vided the plunder, and fat down till day-light,
when they threw the Major into an old blanket,
and after carrying him about sixty yards, threw
him down by the fide of an old log, and then
carried his waiter, William Lynch, and laid him
down by the Major, and threw the old blanket
over them, and covered them with chunks and
poles ; they then returned lo the fire and made
some chocolate, and eat breakNft ; after which
they mounted, and went ?bout fix cr seven
miles to the old Indian's hdufe, and stayed all
that day ; the next morning they fat out tor the
town of Glaize, where they arrived about two
o'clock. That be stayed with the young Indian
three or four days, when he and au Indian were
sent to the King of the Buokunga*
hela, who told him he wa» sorry thev nad kilicd
the men—that they ought to have brought them
[Whole No. 409.]
to iHe lowus; anA foid, itve'o if ib<y did nor like
the mc fT.ige, ihev could have'killed them thfrej
fhty could not have got away fiom ) licit). The
K ing told hiin to stay at f lie houfc wiie»e he was,
and not to go about, lift ihe \ rung Indians
should kill him, tiil he could go down to where
his Indian b;oiher lived, of whom he had told
him. [You will obfeive Smally had formerly
been among the Indians, and was adopted, aU
ter which he had made hisefcape, and had bren
a way several years.] In a day or two after this,
the Shawanefe Chiefs sent for him, who lived in
the said town of Glaize. Alter he told
them what he could about the flag, they told
him he might go back to the house where he
flayed. That he continued about 14 or 15 days
in the town ; after which he went down to his
brother, into whose family he had formerly been
adopted, in the room of hts adopted brother's
brother, who had bren kilted ; he lived theie
till the corn was laid by (by which is meant the
the hilling of ii) with his brother's
wifr, his brother being out a hunting ; that he
stayed there till after council about eight days :
from this place, about 600 Indians darted with
a view to take Fort Jefferfon, expe&ing to be
joined by othes to the amount of 600. By
consent of his brother, whp he made believe hfe
should return, he -fat out for Dclioit; ar
rived there, he went to thfc commanding officer,
and told hira he wanted to get into the fettle*
ments tn the United States—who informed him
he should go in 1 he firft veff< 1 going from thence j
and at the departure of the boat, he gave hnn a
pass and seven days provisions. The officer used
him with a great degree of kindness, and order
ed him to stay with the clerk of the Indian store
till the veftel was ready. That the vefTel in
which he went proceeded to Fort Ontario; fiom
which he went to Navy-hall, where General
Simcot lives, \a ho behaved to him with as great
kindness as it was poflible for a man to do, giv
ing him a pdfs and seven days provisions ; from
thence he pafled through the Genefee country
so Sufquehannah, at Nfw-Town Point; from
thence to Violvev, where he lay Tick a month at
a Mr. Amos's, who treated him with great ci
vility; from thence to Harrn'-Ferry, where he
crofTed, passing through Carlifteand Bedford to
the Monongahcla. at George-Creek, about 120
miles above Fort Pitt; from thence to General
Wayne's head-quarters, at LPgs-Town; and
from thence to Columbia, the place of his refi
rtence and family—where he arrived the 304b
December, 1792.
Mr. Smally farther relates, that while he was
at the town of Glaize. he met wi'h an Indian,
who told him he had met with Messrs. Joseph
Gerrard, lfaac Freeman, and a Mr. Lavara (as
near as he can recoiled the name) a Frenchman,
who were also on an embassy to the Maumee
towns. The Indian said thev camp across them
about four days after they left Fort Wafhingron;
that they travelled w'th them about two days
and a half, when they killed them in the follow,
ing manner: Fir ft they tomahawked Mr. Joseph
Gerrard, then (hot the Frenchman, who was
spreading out some things to dry; on which
Mr. Freeman ran—that he himfelf (hot at him
and broke his arm—that he then came up with
him and tomahawked him.
Mr. Smally also informs me, that he saw some
of Colonel Hardin's things which were brought
into the town of which he deems the
greatest of the Indian towns, (this Col. Hardin,
with a Mr. Thomas Flinn, had also been sent on
an embassy to the Indian Nations) but dif.
patrhed to the St. Dusky towns among the Wv»
andots. The Indians informed Mr.Smally that
they were out a hunting when Co). Hardin came
up to them in a plain with the flag ; that after
,he y g ot 10 camp, where they were altogether,
they consulted what to do with them ; that they
were all for killing them but one, who infilled
to rake them to town and hear their message,
and that they could but kill them when they got
them theie; but as the reft were for killing
them, chey ihot Mr. Flinn through the head a*
he was fitting by the fire cooking; on which
Colonel Hardin fled—an Indian puifucd him
when the Colonel saw the Indian was like to
come up with him, he turned and caught hold of
the Indian's tomahawk ; that while they were
in the fcuffle, another Indiau came up and to
mahawked the Colonel ; that they brought the
things into the town of Glaize, and fold some of
them to the Englilh.
Mr. Smally is of opinion that much the great
er part of the Indians are for wai. He fays he
talked with Simon Girty near two hours, that he
abused him a good deal about our army, that
they were so easily defeated. He told Mr Girty
he had come cut with a flag. Girty then asked
him what Congress meant by fendingout letter■
totheGirtys, offering them a pardon it t,hey
would come in ; that he damned (hem, faying,
I reckon when they get us in, they think to banc
us. He asked Mr. Girty when he knew Con
gress to be guilty ol fach a treacherous tiick as
that ? He aulwered, when they killed the Mo
ravians.
On a iking Mr. Smally what he thought re.-
I peeling the numbers of the Indian* at war with
us, he said he could only foim a judgment from
the report of the Indians—they fay they expefl
at the next battle to but he much
quellions if they could raise more than 5 or 6000
among ihe confederated nations at war with us.
Mr. Smally seems of opinion thatthe Britilh are
not at this time a&ive loaflift the Indians in the
prcfent war; he believes they only give'them
ycaily what ihey had agreed to give them it the
peace with the United Siatrs [ but whether this
ihould be conliJcicd it 1; aI y as presents, or a*yearly allowances for the bcrefit* of their
trade, Mr. Smally does not presume to fay.
Mr. Smally was not brought before me by
virtue ol' any legal authority ; but hearing®!"
his return, and understanding by his neigh
bors that he was a sober man, on who r e rela
tion confidence might be placed, I wished to
have that relation from himfetf, ajid accord
ingly aiked a ceitain Hal!, of the militia, one
of his neighbors, to deiire him to tome down,
which he accordingly did, when I took down
the account in writing, as he related :i—and
I believe you may rely upon the truth of the
fa&s, so far as his memory could I'erve.
f underltand Congress have in a public man
mer condoled with and provided for those fa
milies who have been bereaved by the lite
unfortunate einbaflies j such conduct, in my
opinion, does honor and-gives dignity to go
vernment; and I flatter myfelf that govern
ment will take meaftjres that this poor man,
Mr. Smally, lhall bejuftlypaid, agreeable to
his agreement made with Major Trueman,
who is now dead, and unable to perform it
himfelf. Thejufticeof government cannot
be doubted—neither would I throw out the
molt distant hint or ihfmuation that any of
the public officers wou'd be guilty of the least
degree of chicanery, by withholding the mo
ney from whom it is due, in order to force
them to take orders and goods from any tra
der, at the advance of an hundred or hundred
and fifty per cent, or higher, from any mo
tives whatever. But thefaftis, that it often
happens that the treops of militia, when tlieir
money is earned, are, for want of the pay
mafter's'being in calh, obliged to take a due
hill on government, which is finally paid with
the greatest justice; but the poor men cannot
think ol going to Philadelphia for it ; and as
they are in want, they part with their due
bills to tbe traders at almost any rate, rather
than run the rifle of losing the paper, and get
ting nothing. These things greatly (reduces
the idea of the pay of government; and on
thele accounts.you may rely upon it our
country bleeds, andjnakes it more difficult to
or raises the price of volunteers on all
occasions Farewell.
Foreign Affairs.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Sunday, January 13.
KERSAINT, after sundry prefa
tory remarks, reported in the
committee of defence as follows :
rft. The minister of the marine
shall issue orders to all the ports, to
arm 3© fail of the line and 20 fri
gates, exclusive of 21 (hips of the line
and 33 frigates already in cosnmif
fion, which will increase the naval
force of the republic to 52 fail of
the line and 52 frigates, which'fhall
be also victualled.
2. Twenty-five {hips of the line,
j of roo, 6 of 80, 14 of 74 guns, 29
frigates, 9 of which (hall mount 40
24 pounders, and i2of 36, 18 pound
ers ; 20 cutters and 6 bomb veflels,
(hall be put upon the {locks ; and
all neceflary repairs {hall be made
to put all the {hips of the republic
in a state to keep the sea.
3. The executive council {hall
take the most expeditious measures
to secure the armaments of the coasts,
and put them in a {late of being
employed in the ensuing spring;
100 battalions in the maritime de
partments, or those whiph are con
tiguous to them, {hall be appointed
to them for their defence.
4. Registers {hall be. opened in
the municipalities, to inscribe the
names of young persons from 16 to
31, who shall be free from all in
firmities, to serve the republic by
sea, n
j. The committee of marine shall
prefentthe plan of a decree for the
number of volunteers who may pre
feni themselves for the sea service,
an 4 to regulate the quota of the 84
departments in proportion to iheir
population, observing that this levy
ftiall not exceed 200 men for the in
terior departments.
6. The committee of var ill all
present immediately its opinion on
the- means least burthenfome, of
preparing the armament of i®o bat
talions, for the defence of the coatts.
7. To allure the execution of these
measures of general defence, the
the national treasury (hall furnifli
the sum of 30 millions as an extra
ordinary fund, to fuptyort the war,
and which shall be at the disposition
of the mißifter of the marine.
The convention moreover char
ges its committee to present, with
out del*y, the state of the expences
necelTary for the extraordinaries of
the marine, in cafe of war, in older
to m&ke provifion3 accordingly.
8. Orders fliall be issued to the
national founderies to cast 600 iron
36 pounders, 800 24 pounders, 600
t8— 400 T2—and 300 8 ponn'ders,
proper for the ft rvice of the sea
and the coasts, and 400 caronades
of 36 pounds.
9. 1 he diplomatic committee shall
make a report upon the situation of
the different agents of the republic
abroad, it being inconsistent with
the dignity ps the republic that
many ol t hem fhuuld remain in their
present situation.
10. The executive council shall
prefeni to the convention a memo
rial upon the refpe<fti've interells of
the French and English nations,
and the defence of their liberty ;
and this memorial approved by the.
convention, and sealed the seal
of the republic, shall be addrefled
to the Englilh nation and govern-
ment
All these articles were decreed,
excepting the 9th and ,toth, which
were adjourned to the 16th, to be
difcufled at the fame time with the
Plan of the decree presented by
Brjfl'ot in the name of the committee
of general defence.
Ir. Conuniflioners from the ton
vention shall be sent to all the ports
and arsenals of the republic, and
to the maritime departments, to ac
quaint the French marines with tlie
cause and objedi of the war with
which France is threatened, ai»d
fhal.l take a lift of the number of
such men as are capable of serving
their country in the.naval depart
ment. They lhall receive the vo
lunteers who fhali firft offer; they
lhall assure the inhabitants of the
coasts, and the mariners, that the
republic will take care, during their
absence, of their wives and children;
their pay shall be augmented, and
a considerable share of the prizes
shall devolve upon them.
In fine, they shall take every mea
sure which they may judge neces
sary, both in the ports and on the
coasts to insure the success of the
war, and put the maritime frqiyiers
of the republic in a refpediable (late
of defence. They shall correspond
on this fubjetfl with the committee
of general defence, fliall give
an account of their proceedings to
the convention, which they fliall
arrange with the agents of the ex
ecutive power and the miniftcrs as
illty shall judgt mft
neceflary power (hall be vested in
them for this purpose.
12. The marine committee shall
instantly deliver in their report up
on the letters of marque, and the
regulations which (hall be followed
by those who (hall fit out privateers
in cafe of a war with England.
Wsdnksday, Jan. 16.
The present state of Paris Was
demanded Decreed.
Legeridre observed, that the ter
rors with which the convention was
inspired, were so many fineil'es to
retard the sentence of Louis.
Marat conjured the convention
not to be the dupes of a farce whi^h
bad been a<3ed for three hours
Those who afFeifled to be terrified
to-day, are those who boaftedafew
days ago that they would csyry
their own measures into efFeis.—
Their despair arifesfroth thiscaufe,
that the brave men (the federates)
who now guard this city, will re
ject the criminal principles they
would suggest to them.
Huguet. A new malfecre is on
foot. All those who have leaned to
the fide of humanity and justice, are
threatened with deftru&ion.
Leharde. I have no doubt of the
business of the federates here—pro
scriptions are openly handed about,
and all those who have voted for
an appeal to the people are to be
poignarded.
It was decreed unanimously, that
the fate of Louis should be instant
ly decided on.
Thibaut, bishop of CantaJ. YfiV
terday I seized on a man who swore
I was a royalist, and he would sft
aflinate me. Of what nation "are
you ? said I—l am, he replied, a
Spaniard by birth, and am come, in
the name of my nation, to demand
the head of Louis the sixteenth to
the end that a folenin alliance may
be formed with your republic. (A
violent agitation in the aflembly.)
I wilh by this, continued Tliibaur,
to prove that the agitators are not
346
the P.nlfians, who have coiiftantly
refpedted thedelegaterl autherities
No they are men purposely
brought hiiher
Mitrat (poke of his parriotifm,
ind braved those who now dreaded
jrofcriptions and murder, and who
■vere so bold a few days ago. The
patriotic members, cried be, are
riotafiaid of the menaces of the
ioyalilts. It has been (aid that cer
tain of my colleagues, friends to
CApet, are terrified at the idea of
(hutting the barriers, because it
a" to their flight:
I demand that every member who
(hall quit Paris fliall.be declared in
famous, and that beyond the bar
riers any one may put him to death.
Saturday, Jan. 19 —at night.
Immediately 011 the negative of
the question for delaying the exe
cution of the sentence pronounced
upon Louis being proclaimed.
Cambaceres said—" Citizens, by
.pronouncing sentence of death a
gainst the lad king of the French,
you have done an atft the remem
brance of which will not pass away,
and which will be recorded by the
graver of immortality in the annals
ofhiftory. Public fafery could a -
lone prescribe to you that awful
decree. Since it is pafled, I Hand
up in the name of humanity, to call
your attention to the person who is
the obje<ft of it. Let us allow him
every poilible consolation, and let
us take proper measures to prevent
the execution of the national will
from being sullied with any (lain—
I move, therefore, the following
proportions :
I. The executive council /hall be
immediately summoned, and a copy
of the decree which pronounces
sentence of death against Louis shall
be delivered theim.
2. The executive council ihall be
charged to notify this decree to
Louis in the course of the day ; to
cause ic to be executed within twen
ty-four hours after it has been no
tified to him ; to take every mea
sure of fafety and police tfhich to
them (hall appear neceflary during
the execution ; to be careful that
no insult be offered to the remains
of Louis, and to give an account of
their diligence to the Rational con
verirTTJir.
3. The mayor and municipal of
ficers of Paris (hall be enjoined to
fuffer Louis ttf communicate freely
with his family, and to have with
him such priests as he may desire in
his last moments.
These proportions were unani
mously adopted, with an amend
ment by Briflbt, that the executive
council should not be called till 11
o'clock in the morning.
[The proceedings of Jan, 20, were
published in our last. 3
LONDON, January ia.
The squadron under the com
mand of Admiral fir Richard King,
now in the Scheldt, whence they
failed from the Downs some days
since, confifls of the Afliftance of
5* guns, two frigates, a sloop, and
two cutters. These command that
mouth of the river, between the
Hies of Zealand and Zoarfe.
Government are making the molt
rapid preparations for war in every
department.
The quantity of ordnance (tores
preparing is immense, both for
land and sea service ; and a large
body of cavalry-artillery are short
ly to be raised, the more effectually
to protedl the coalls against any at
tempts of an enemy.
War appears inevitable, and the
nation seems only waiting till they
are fufficiently prepared to strike a
blow of consequence.
January 17.
The official accounts from Hol
land state that the admiralty of Am
(teidam have ordered the immedi
ate equipment, of some ftiips of
war, and have opened the usual cor
respondencies with the other four
admiralties, on the fubjedt of their
usual quotas of Ihips and men.
Lord George Gordon has found
sureties for good behavior for four
teen years, required by sentence of
the court of king's bench, and will
be at large in the course of the pre
sent week. The sureties, we un
derstand, are two Jews of consider
able property f„ (t » e Thr
ble P- ifoner, we fee, g,j n , ,
thing by bis electron itit*
ber oF the chosen, a„d *„rf 4 Vi«.
abandoned by the *bot e
_ January 24.
Fhe French executive council
have given directions all the of
hcers commanding by s ea or ) a „j
in the service of the republic, to be
careful not to be the firlt to eon,,
nut an a<sl of hoftilhy against ,hi,
country, unless it ft, o „\d hereafter
appear the decided intention of th«
British cabinet to declare war a
gainst France.
On Saturday advices were re
ceived of the arrival of the Affill
ance man of war and the Iphigmia
frigate, in the Downs, from Klufo.
ing ; commodore Murray did not
return in his (hip, having been fenc
by our government to the Kin» „f
Fritflia, at Frankfort, with Lord
GrenviUe's answer to M. deChauve
lin.
There is no profpe<s whatever of
a conciliation, and an immediate
Declaration of WAR feetns more
certain than ever, for we can speak
from the firft authority, that our
court is resolved not to acknow.
ledge or receive M. Chauvelin, or
any other person, as the accredited
minifler of the republic of France,
the government of which, accord
ing to its own appellation, is mere
ly provisional.
Domestic Articles.
BOSTON, March 10.
FROM PHILADELPHIA — MARCH 6.
" Congress is now adjourned, and
the Members scattered—but very
few of them remaining here The
Seflion concluded favorably—there
fult of the investigation into the
official conduct of the Secretary if
■the Triafury; was highly to his ho
nor : Many of his letters to foreign
agents, and to our ministers in Eu
were read, in the course of the
dtfcuHn*.., discovered the
great and enlighteina
and Financier ; and strongly lm
preffed this idea on the mind, that 1 ,
the interest and honor of the Untied
State/ ore thefupreme objecXs ofhls
ambition and pursuit."
Dr. Jarvis, Messrs. Kingfley, Sew
all, Gardiner & Jones, of thistdwny
are appointed a committee to consi
der and report to the Legislature,
the present session, how far this
commonwealth is, either directly or .
indiredlly, afFe&ed by a late de
cision of the Supreme Judicial
Court of the Unitee States, said to
have been made by four of the
J udges of the fame, against the state
of Georgia ; or how far any ftateis
conftjtutionally responsible on an
atftion of debt, instituted by any in
dividual of any other state : And
also to procure and submit to tho
Legislature an authenticated copy
of the cafe referred to, and the judg
ment thereupon—of the opinion*
and declarations of the Judges—
and of all other circomftance* re
fpctfling the fame ; in order that
our true situation may be known
and understood, and such measures
adopted on this occasion, by this
commonwealth, as its honor and in
terest may demand, and the peace
and fafety of the Union requires.
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY.
The MaiTachufetts Society for
promoting Agriculture, to engage
attention to the culture and pre
fer vat ion of Fruit Trees, offer a pre
mium to the person who (hall on or
before the firft clay of July 179^'
give a fatisfartorynatural history of
the Canker Worm, of Fifty Dollars,
or a piece of Plate, or a Gold Me
dal, of that value, at the option of
the author. The history of this
infe<fl will be expe&ed through all
its transformations ; at what depth
in the ground, and at what <hf
tance from the tree, as well as the
time when they cover themselves ;
at what season they rife from the
ground, in the form of a winged in
feJt and grub ; on what part of the
tree they usually deposit their egg'»
as well as at what time their eggs
become worms. If more than on®
fatisfatflory history of the worm
(hall be given before July 179 j, tb3!firll received by.the Trustees /hall
be entitled to the Premium.
Also, a Premium of one hundred
Dollars is offered to the perl'on who
fliall on or befo-e the firfl day of
July discover an effectual, and
the cheapelt method of destroying
the Canker Worm, and give evi
dence thereof, to the faiisfu<stion of
the Trultees. - -
It is required tliat the communi
cations for which the above Premi
ums are offered, be delivered in,
-Without names, or any intimation
r& whom they belong ; that they
befeveratty fiiarked in fiich man
ner as each claimant lhall think fit;
the claimant fending with it a pa
per sealed up, having on the out
side a correl'ponding mark, and on
the iufide his name and address.
By order of the Trujltes,
Oliver Smith.,'Lorref. Sec'iy
I ROM THE NATIONAL GAZETTE.
AN immense num>v.-r of peaceable and un
armed citizens were atfembled in the
Champ de Mars, at the altar of their coun
try, to sign a petition relative to the dethron
ing of Louis the XVI th, after his flight. La
FSyette at the head of his mercenary troops,
after martial law had been proclaimed;, order
ed them to fire upon these citizens, and be
tween twelve and fifteen hundred were kill
etU
Remarks en the Jorcgoing,
'* from Loudon's fNtui-Yvrkj I)iary.
A .gORRESPONQENT cannot hut express
hisTUtjjnzb at a* paragHiph infd&r paper of
Saturday evening, stating the conduit of that
excellent man, and firm friend to America,
Monsieur De la Fayette.—An American,who
was at the time mentioned, in Paris, is well
a Cured of the misrepresentation of that ac
count. All parties acknowledged, that if was
entirely owing to the firmnefs, prudence and
good conduct of Gen. La Fayette, that the
mob, collected in the Champ de Mars, was
dispersed with so little ettufton of blood—after
they had wantonly destroyed two persons, and
were ordered repeatedly by the Mayor of Pa
ris and the Municipality to difpei fe, without
effect —Military law was proclaimed, and the
guards fired firft over tlieir heads ; which was
returned with Hones and (hot—A division then
fired at the mob, and about thirtyAveje killed
and wounded ; upon which they inftintly dis
persed, and the city was as quiet the evening
after, as if no lucli circum'ftpnte had 'happen
ed : From*perfons pi'efeiit on the ground, it
js Well )cno>vtj» were
eoNwAetoy as 'Sre' said in the accoint . taken
from the National Gazette, were'kShled. "four
is fully fatisfied, that thefirfety
or<ier of the f ify ps Paris wanivinp
asiriucn, perhaps more,- to the lleady and pa
triotic conduct of Monf. de la Fayette, dur
ing his command there, than to any other
C&nfe whatever :—And Airely, the inhabitants
of America wijl not fbffer the aspersions Of
the enemies of so tried a ftiend to the general
liberties of mankind, and of this couatry irt
particular, to operate a moment on their
Blinds.
PhiladelphiajMarch^o
Ttle ship Difpatcb, Capt. Benjamin Hodg
don, arrivted here Wednesday, left Liibon on
the 20th of February. Captain Hodgdon in
forms, that while he .was preparing "his Ihip
for sea, the pilot came on hoard, with intel
ligence that an express had just arrived from
FrStice, with an account of" the declaration
of war by that republic, against the different
powers of Europe, that had refjafed to nego
ciate with, and acknowledge the republic of
France, viz. England, Holland, Portugal and
Sardinia
Capt- Hodgdon cannot vouch for the au
thenticity of the foregoing important intelli
gence, as the Ihip, at the time of his receiv
ing-it, lay some miles below the town ; but,,
fronj its being communicated to the pilot by
Mr. John 3ulkeley, a very refpeftable mer
chant of Lilboq, he is of opinion that it may
be relied on.
We wait thearri val of the fliips John Bulke
ly, Capt. Wharton, and the Four Friends,
Capt. Volaus (which were to foil in two
days after Captain Hodgdon) for a confirma
tion of this news, and the advices from En
gland by the Packet, which Captain Hodgdon
•bferved going into Liibon.
The Portuguese were making great pre
parations for war : about 8200 troops had
Ween ordered from Lisbon to strengthen the
different garrisons of the kingdom.
fxtrtß of a If Her from a gentleman at Li/ion, re
ceived by theflip Dijpatch, Capt. Hoagdcn.
" "We have just received advices from
France, by land post, and from England by
Packet, that the Republic of France had de
clared WAR against Portugal, Holland, Raf
fia, England, and Sardinia."
By a letter brought by the James, to a gen
tleman of this city, dated Bristol, January
>7, we learn, that Louis the XVlth was pub
jicklv beheaded, at ten o'clock on the morn
ing of the Jlft of said month :—He met his
unhappy f a te with the most dignified forti
tude, declaring his innocence of the crimes
alledged against him, expressed his perfeeV re
signation, and a hope that his death might al
lay the ferments and diftrafVons of his bleed
ing »*untry, ire. &rc.—Popular tumults and
outrides immediately fuccceded bit executi
and mnny.m:m'jel-<; of the-coY:ventio;i are
feid to have been facrificed to the fury of ail
ungovernable and blood cliirftv mob.—
CharUjhn p <p:r.
Captain Joftma Barney, of the Ihip Sainton,
a.irivecf at Baltimore from the Ha v ana,which
place he left on ; the 13th inft. interim, that
the day before-he failed, the Spanifli frigate
Juno arrived there from Ferrol, in 28 days,
with dispatches for the diiferent Spanish go
vernments. The advices by the Juno were,
that the Kin'g of France had been decapitat
ed—that hostilities had commenced between
England and France, and that there was ail
hourly expectation of a declaration of war
between France and Spain—that theEmprefs
of Russia had acknowledged the republic of
France, anil declared Iwrfeif her Ally. Tlje
Junr> stopped but four hours off the Havana,
and then proceeded to la Vera-Cruz, to pre
- vent the facing of a 74 gun (hip and a frigate,
which had gone down to take on board eight
millions of dollars, till a further convoy thould
arrive—Captain Barney also informs, that an
embargo was to take place at the Havana tjie
day he left it. J
The above account of R.uffia's recognizing
the French Republic, appears to be extraor
dinary; but when it is considered" that Swe
den, which is now in alliance with Russia, has
(to use M. Kerfaint's observation) taken the
French Republic by the hand, .and when it is
also recollected that measures are said to be
pursuing by the French Republic to indicate
the Tutks against Russia and Austria, it will
be conceived that motives of policy and felf
prefervation may have induced the Eirtprefs
to take this step. There are, con
siderations which abate the probability of the
account. Russia, Anftria, Prussia and Eng
land, are apparently on good terms.', The
Turks have fuffered so much in the latei war,
that they will not slightly provoke their old
enemy. England and Russia are conuefted
ed heads of Europe are persuaded that the
fuppreffiop of Fiench principles is a common
cause to them. Should Russia be detached,
one of the strongest links in the chain of the
combination would undoubtedly be broken.,
France, in cafe of a rupture with England,
will, it is laid, immediately declare her islands
independent, sensible how inadequate her na
val forces would be to protect them against
the combined power of England, Spain and
Holland. If this should be the cafe, we fhaJT
be immediately released from the guaranty
ftipiilated in the treaty of alliance.
By the last courier from Port-au-Prince we
learn, that an .American ve/Tel has been feiz.
Ed at Fofle having on board 6000 muskets and
1000 pair of piftoli, corifigned to the worthy
tie jiJmecourt. A few days more and the pro
vince of the Weft would have been
It has been saved by the courage of the patri
ot Borel, who was so cruelly treated by the
perfidious Blanchelande.
, By the last letters from France we learn,
that the Blanche'andes, and the Girardms
frvtll uu rlw, -**♦, T»
is to be hoped, that their vile coadjutors,
will net long delay experiencing the fame
late. Gen. AJi.
Mr. Rickets, the celebrated horsemen—has
advertiled that his unparalleled performan
ces will commence, at the Circus wbifb he
has erected, on Wednesday aext at 4 o'clock,
P. M.
The Hospital bill, before the Legislature,
and which will probably pass, provides for
the appropriation of 26,666 dollars for the
improvement of that benevolent inftitutioo.
An horizontal windmill is said to have bee.n
invented by an ingenious mechanic at Pater
fon, New-Jersey ; the description appears to
agree very nearly with that of a mill, for an
improvement on which,an ingenious.inechan
ic at Boflron lately received a pateDt.
M. Kerfaint—in his speech to the National
Convention on the probable war with Qreat-
Britairi, has lketched a plan of operations,
which if carried into effect'on the part of the
French, with success, would go further to
eftablilh an universal empire than all the pro
je<sts of Louis the XlvCh, their former grand
Monarque—but then, fay the French, it
would be the empire of Liberty and Equality.
A writer in a New-Yolk paper, after dif
fering the Comedy called the School for Scan
dal, fays—" The uncommon popularity of
the School for Scandal, appears to me a ne
ccifary consequence of its immoral tendency.
Whatever chimes mi with a general spirit of
dilGpation, will always be acceptable to a peo
ple of profligate morals. Nor is there a more
effectual method of recommending the most
fafhionable crimes, than by thus blending them
with luch qualities, as are (till amiable to the
most diflolute. In every ag« and nation, men
are immoderately fond of whatever stamps
an odium on such characters, as are a tacit
but living satire on their own manners."
A French paper (Patriote Francois} fays
the National Gazette, gives us the following
Icale of Beings; beginning with the most J'u
blime of all and descending to the lowest dregs
oi his visible and invifihle creation viz.—
God—Angel—A tyrant killer—a philanthro
pic—An honest man-—A labourer—A flothful
cowardly citizen—A monk—A faint—A hero
—A kinjj—The devil—(credit is given for the
above scale to An Englilh Republican.)
Oi/y allowl fume people feope.
They'll hang thenfehies, andfnd the rope.
Tuesday evening the Comedy of the Fash
ionable Lover, and the Comic Opera of No
Song No Supper, we.e performed at the the
atre, in New-York, by the Old American
Company, for the benefit of the unfortunate
widows and orphans whose bufbands perished
in the late storm ; and upwards of 400 dol
lars raised for that benevolent purpole.
347
Tho Proficient of the Suited States kfr
town lit ft Wednesday afternoon, 011 a . visit t6
Mount Vernon.
Bland Lee, E r <{. is re elected if
member of the House ot Kepre fen'drive's of
Lh? l T oited States, tor the itate-of* Virginia.
Extract of a letter ftom a gentleman in the
to bisJrietid in this city. s
" [ am disgusted with a fit of* fciibblirs
who for fpme time past have in felted the pi»b
---• lie peace—Not fatisiied with enjoying the
real and substantial of liberty, they
ra ''f ' * delu g* of complaints fvom the m<*ft in
fi£'iincai&t Jourees, and pass the in oft child ifh
andl ridipulous censures upon their rulers—
Thi h a species of madneis and impertinence
to whjcji e x very free government is liable—
Thev£ every where some dilcontented
xyrctcrics, nrped on either by folly or private
tine finefs, who cannot bear an hour Of peace,
because it is -ift hour of refle&ion, and d.f
charge their venom through the dii tieft chan
nel they can fjnd—Like falprtianders they
can exist only in fire—Every disturbance is
to them an opportunity of plunder.—l think
, it the highest proof of the happy situation of
our country, that thefc wretclcs with all the
of determined mifchief and ma
lice, can find no object to strike at, no abuse
to complain of, that would give a man of
comm n lenfcand candor a moment's thought
—Levees, dress, titles, and trifles of this lort,
coinpofe the whole amount of our public im
perfections artfl calamities—Happy country!"
COMMUNICATIONS.
■Wfcile we are waiting to fee what effefh
will br- r- oduced on a government which was
broag nfo life and is kept in being by the
free »o;< of" the people, bv making the citi
zens hats and fear it, it 13 natural to ask,
\>>l»atguud is done in common life by similar
ufijge individual-—Doss a per,on make
moie willing to l<ud, to aid and
arfift each other by calling them rogues and
rafca'% would itftcure his wife's virtue and
delicacy for all companies to hear her flan
de> feci. Dors it encourage good men to do
w(jf,tiiily bv denying them the praile of well
dbmg—or does it add any thing to the force
ofcenfure by making it indiscriminate.—
Does it not take away lhame from public cen
sures when they are so general that bad men
may be lure to find. themfclves in company
with good men. What good purpole is it ex
peftsd to carry by keeping up an unceasing
cyy agaiuft Cbngrefs and the admiuiftrators of
the government as rogues, speculators, mo
narchymen—will it make rulers mend their
ways, .or the citizens weary of their fubmif
fijin Co the laws?
JMis ft.range that so many men undertake
to Mform government, who neglect to reform
thefrown prtv&tHives—Our heavenly mind
ed ipfen of no religion, dread the Aiding of our
pulitic officers into venality—Ambitious men
talb of equality, and our coxcombs and epi
curftsof the true republican simplicity ofmati-
'WTS. nuiini.i/ ™im rrwrn a grided
coach—and surrounded by a train of slaves in'
lively.—Men, who are embarrassed by debts,
and who have long relied on their influence
to Jet State laws pafled to keep off their cre
d!tor's, speak of the corrupting tendency of
public debts. Corrupting indeed if a public ij
governed by knaves who refufe tn pay tberrt.
Gamblers are in a cold sweat left (peculators
Ihould be encouraged—The creatures of an
ambitions party affect extreme delicacy in
regard to the influence of office. Yet they
take'their cue from them, and almost fpeaic
their Words. They mind the whiffle,& come
and .go like spaniels for bidding. These are
the iymptoms of .purity, which many lecm to
make a flourifh with, while they insinuate
every poflible foul suspicion against their op
ponents. Probably on weighing ctiarafters,
the private lives and the public principles of
the supporters of government, will not dis
credit the cause they have cholen to support.
If the friends of government take no pains
to ifindicat? it, and very little to secure elec
tiorfsittfTloneft aiffl able federal men. ' If the
enemies of government have the a&iv'ity of
evil jpirits, and their flanders are spread into
every corner of the union: The lapse of a
very-few years will (hew whether the go
vernment can Hand, when good men will not
take the pains to hold it up, or whether the
most worthless men in society can lie it into
the dust. Is it not to be lamented that too
many of our bell men are lookers on at the
crisis of faction and intrigue, as if they had
nothing to do with the event ?
SHIP NEIVS.
ARRIVED** Me PORTo/PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Dlfpatch, Hodgdon, Lisbon
Brig Polly, Dennis, Boston
Maria,
Schr. folly,
Sally,
Sally,
Pearfon,
Helm,
Sheppard, ]
Downes,
Coppinger,
Wallace,
T aylor,
Baxter,
JVlary Ann,
Sloop $*Jancy,
Betfty,
Delighi,
PHILADELPHIA.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cer.ts, ,8/6
J per Cents, 10/5
Deterred, . ~JS
Full (hares Bank U.S. 13 percent, prem
Wtnttd to cmpleatfiles of this GaztUt num
bers 79 and Bc—Six pence each u itl it paid by the
Editor Jot a jew oj ihoje numbers.
Extr<is if * letter ir to Ike Wtjlcm Tjtr'ttr „ dat?J
" 1 have taken the liberty to enclose you
the copy ct i c;>nim ; fl:on from the Honorable
WIKTHRor S**fltKT, Secretary of the Terri
tory of tbi United SUt«< Northwest of tile
R'ver'Ohio, now 'teflcu ail the powers
of the Governor, t«i tile perfiwis therein
named, with their refignatioin. At it is :i,
matter nearly cmiiieA«i with the liberty rff
the Citizens rf the United States, 1 ftioi.ld be
glud you voiiM procure them a pt.ue in one
of the public paoers."
By th« Ho'ioraMe VWrntop SaHgeb*, S«-
erefary in aint ftr tlte Territory of tl»ft
United Stttpr NuUTjWlft Of the hl**r
ortM i»CUt{
thereof.
To all tierfmH who {halt fee th'fe
5 Territorialprr/cnts, CreetiNf :
JTVK KNOW YE > have
v —' authorized and empowered
William Gofortb, William Wells, Wi;liani
M'Millin, Ji hn S. Gano, and Aaron Cadwel!,
Efqnires, Judges of the County Court of Com
mon Pleas, for the County of Hamilton, du
ring our pleasure : And do by these prelbnts
authorize and empower the (aid William Go
forth, William Wells, William M'Millin, Jolm
S. Gano, and Aaron Cadwel), or a majoritv
of them, to hold and keep a Court of Record
in the said County, to be styled the County
Court of Common fleas—and therein to hold
pleat of aflizes, fieri facias, replevins, and
hear and determine all manner of pleas, ac
tions, suits ai:d causes of a civil nature, real,
personal and mixed, according to the coofti
tution and laws of the territory.
(Signed) WINTHROP SARGENT.
Territory of the United State;,
Northwest of the River Ohio, C
Hamilton County. 3
T) the fiororat/cWiNTHRor Sa * cent, Efjuire,
First Executive Officer of the aforefaid
Territory.
SIR,
IT is known to your honor that in the year
one thousand seven hundred and eightv-nine,
bis excellency Arthur St. Cl#lr, was pleased
to honor us with a coniniiflion for holding a
Court of Common Pleat in the county afore
faid—which coin million we nhole to accept,
and have acted under the fame from that
time to the present moment—during which
time we are not sensible of any lack whereby
it became forfeited,'or that it expired.
We are again honored with your commis
sion for holding the Tame Court; in Which the
names of John S. Gano, and Aaion Cadwcll,
Efqrs. are included.
We/liould lie exceedingly well suited in their
appointment, would they acccpt, could it be
done oil principles compatible with the gene
, ral iiitereft of the community.
We, on our part, are not fond of innova
tions, and are avprfe to multiplying oaths.
Were we to ast under the late commission, in
concert with the above named gentlemen, we
inuft submit to a repetition of the oath of al
legiance and of office, without any apparent
necelfitv.
But for a moment admitting it was neces
sary that we rtiould be re-appointed to that
office, we could not. stoop to the indignity of
holding officesj the tenor of wMch is during
pleasure. We could not so far betray the
rights of our fellow citizens, as to et a prece
dent which might fii!>jeift the important trust
°' Judges of the Common Plea? to the wbira
or caprice of any one individual.
We have not yet forgotten, that this vrat
matter of complaint against the adminiftra.
tion of the Colonial government, at the com
mencement of the late glorious contest with
Great-Britain.
In the articles of independence, ratified on
the memorable 4th of July, 1776, we find the
following clan's inserted—" He has made
Judges dependent on his will alone," for the
tenure of their offices and the amount and
payment of their salaries.
That Judges Ihould he independent of the
Executive, is expressly guarded by the Con
stitution of the General Government, and it
a right we never can relinquifli. In acquies
cence with the aforefaid gentlemen, we here
fend you enclosed that coromiffion which your
honor has been pleated to offer to their and
our acceptance ; we consider our'elves bound
by and qualified to ast under the former, and
lhall demean ourselves accordingly.
Sir, with great regard,
your mod obedient, and
very humble servants,
WILLIAM GOFQRTH
WILLIAM WELLS,
WIDLIAM M'MILLIN.
John S. Gano and Aaron Cadwell, Efqrr,
made fiimlar resignations at the fame time.
> do.
Charleston
Port-au-Prince
do.
Guadaloupe
Virginia
do.
Norfolk
ICT 3 * LOST, on Monday lajl t a Five
Dollar Baiik-Note, of the Bank of
North-America.—the person -who may
have found it, is requeued to leave it
■with the Editor hereof, and they shall
receive One Dollar and thankt for their
trouble.
• '•\> / '• "J— r
Fto % 7, J 793* to * *n Mijaj,
IN tcftimony whereof we have can fid our tut/ic
St a! to be hereunto affixed. Wttncfs, WW.
throp sargent, eji,-. .w«w»£ rep*.
, fentingthe GovernorandCommonier in Chief,
batci'crt iiinchruitlfH* t,th of February, Anno
Ootntni One 'ftwufind Seven Hundred and
Ninety ■ Three, and of the Independence oj the
Untied States of America the Seventeenth.Vinall's Arithmetic.
THE Second Edition of t his wo»k, with im
provements, v. ill fpcedily be put to p'efs.
The rapid sale of the fir ft edition*, greatly be
yond the author's moll (anguine cx pe&ations,
encourages hw« to print a second edition. lie
intends to have it printed upon much better pa
per than the former, and wiih a new type.
Th Booksellers who wtfh to take a num
ber of copies in Iheets, are uqueftcd to apply to
the author for particulars.
* ioco Copies
At a meet in ix of the School Com.mitte",
February s'b, 1 793-
The Committee, appointed 10 examine u The
Preceptor's Aflifiant, ot Student's Guide," being
a lyftematical treanfe of Arithmetic, by John
Vi n a l l, teacher, of the Math* matics & Writ
ing, in Bollon, reported, that they have attended
th* service, and are.of opinion, that the work
is with judgment, and is as well calcu
lat»d for the use of schools, counting houses, and
private families, as any of the fame compass
that has hitherto been offered to the public.
Voted, Tnat the above report be accepted,
and that Mr. Vinail be furnilhed with a copy
ot it, whenever he shall desire it.
Coovof the Records. Attest,
CHARLES BULFINCH, Sec'ry
The following character of the above work,
is given in the Review of the Majjachufetts Ma
gazine * for Jan. 1793 :
" This is a very ufeful work, end is no ill
proof of the judgment and industry of the author.
The rules are laid down with propriety, and
the ex.imph s anm xed are fufficient for their il
luflration. One part of the work defc rvrs par
ticular commendation. We mean that which
the author ft ilea " Mercantile Arithmetic " It
occupies a confidcrable portion of his book, but
not more than its importance will juftify. We
would recommend to the young Arithmetician
to pay a particular attention to this branch.
He wijl find its principles well explained And
should he make himfclf ntafter of them, he will
always have reason to acknowledge his obliga
tion to the judicious and laborious author. We
cannot but congratulate the riling generation on
account of the many ufeful produ&ions which
have lately appeared ; and in which their im
provement has been principally consulted.—-
Among those produft'.ons we mult place this
trcatife of Arithmetic. We should be wanting
in justice to the author, should we not acknow
h dge that his work is in reality that which its
title imports—The Pr ecbpior's
or Student's Guide."
Bojloti, Feb. 13.
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will be of
fered for sale at au&lon, by
fioners, on the 17th <!ay of September next. —
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the refnlueat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. G A NTT, Clerk to the Com'rs.
Extratt of an A& of the General Aflemhly of
Maryland, qoacerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the Citv ol Washington.
" Beit ena&cd, That any foreigner may by
deed or wi//, hereafter to he wade, take and hold lands
within that part oj the Jaid Territory which ties with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizen f
§f thii Slate : Provided, That no foreigner fh all,
in virtue hereof \ be entitled to any further or other
privilege of* citizcn."
Jan. 19.
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BREED.
HE was imported from England in Novem
ber, seventeen hundred and eighty-fix, and
is now ten years old ; he is a bright bay, with a
blaze,fifteen hpndsone inch high, is well form'd,
has a great deal of bone and and his
a&ion equal to any horse. His colts are well
approved of in the different paits of the State
where he has flood, of which any person inclined
t© purchase can inform themselves. Enquire
of the Printer.
February 18, 1793.
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given, That the Com
miflioners appointed by the Board of
Trustees of the University of North-Carolina,
will attend at the town of Hillfborough, on the
18th, 19th and 20th days of April next, so« the
piirpofe of receiving propofali from such per
sons as may be disposed to undertake the Build
ings of the University.
FREDERICK HARGETT, Chairman.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
THESubfcriber intending to ronfine himfelf
entirely to the PURCH ASK & SALE of
STOCKS on COM M I SSI ON, begs leave to of
fer his fcrvtces to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their bufuiefs, may depend
upon having it with the utrooft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon, or any.
otheV part of the United States, will be ft.ri 6ll y
attended to.
LEONARD BLEECKER
(«•• f.y
PLANS
OF the
City of Waihington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, ] O'JKG, 3 CRUKSHANK
JUST PUB.LISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookfe/ler, ct the Stone-Hhf: y in Second Jlreet t
PHIIADELPHI A,
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY of ARTS,SCIENCES,
and MISCELLANEOUS I.IIIR ATURE,
On a Plan entirely new :
BY WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
THE H'ftory, Theory, and Pra#ice, of each,
according to the Laieft Difcoverits and im
prov infills : und full Explanaiions given *>f the
various detached pans of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural and Artificial or to
Matters Ecch fiaflical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, &c. Including Elucidations of the most im
portant Topics relative to Relig on,Mora's,Man
ners, and the Oecouomy of L Ir : together with
a Dcfcriptiou of all the Countries, Cuies, piin
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, & . throughout
the World ; a General HiUoiy, Ancient and
Modem, of the different Empires Kingdoms,
and States : and an account of the Lives of the
mod Eminent Pcrlons in every Nation, from the
earliest ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writing* of the be'!t author*, in
several Languages ; the most appioved Di&iona
ries, as well of Generaf Science as of particular
branches; the Tranfaflions, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned societies, both at home and
abroad—the MS. le&ures of eminent prdfeffors
on different Sciences : and a variety ot original
Materials, furniihed by an extensive Correspon
dence.
The Seventh Volume contains a description
of Mount Etna, Eudipmeter, Exchange, Expe
rimental Philosophy, S> stem of Farriery, Feudal
system, Fire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica-
rion, Fofli's, history of Fiance, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Glass,
See. with a variety of articles in natural hist >ry,
biography and miscellanies. Illustrated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (;caft for the ptrpofe) which
will be occasionally renewed before they con
trail a worn appearance.
11. The work is furnifhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as ffibfcribers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds ot a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the priceof one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part ot the
work will be delivered unless paid for,
111. In the courie of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia : which by
far exceed in number those given in any other
fcientific di&ionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant tromif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different v.nlnmei - —-
It is expc&ed the woik will be compiifed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
Those who wish to become pofTeffors of
this valuable work will pleafeto be rarly in their
applications, as the fubfeription is nearly closed.
I. C. A. A. A. S
January 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are entitled for fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the s'h day of March 1 793, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiffconers of the Loans
within the Rates refpcttivcly, under the ufuaf
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment must be ac
companied by the following vouchers :
1 ft. The certificate given by the fta#e, fpecify
•ing that the person poflefling the lame is in fact
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as such, he is annually intitied.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came belore me, one of the r Juflices
of the county of in the state of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
tuc'original certificate in his pofleflion was giv
en, of which the following is a copy (the cer
tificate given by the state to be recited) That
he served (regiment, corps or vcfTel) at the
time he was disabled, and that he now resides
in the and county of and has rtfided
there for the last years, previous to which
he rcfided in
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment
bv an attorney, the said attorney, besides ine
certificate and ojth before recited, mud produce
a special letter of attorney agreeable to the iol
lowing form :
I, A. B. of county of state of
do hereby constitute and appoint C. D. of (
my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension lor fix months, as an Invalid
of the United States, from the of Sep
tember 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
1 793-. , ,
VOLUME VII, OF
arc duelled into the Form ol DiUintt,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS:
COMPREHENDING
CONDITIONS.
Jan. 23.
War Department,
Signed and Sealed
in the Presence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators
mo ft be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpeftive offices, and also of the time the
Invalid-died, whofccenfion they may claim.
By Command of the Prcfident
of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER'S Ferry.
348
Morfe'i Geography,
Revijed, corrected, and greatly enlarged, rvitu many
additional Maps, u 'ell engraved.
In a few weeks will be publiflied,
Bv THOMAS and ANDREWS, Fauft'# Statue,
No. 45, NVwbnry-Street f Boston,
In luo Volume*, l(*Tge Ottavo.
\ NEW Edition of the AMERICAN
'X. GEOGRAPHY : Bciijk ilic liißctt
and thr h'ft lytttm ol Gior.R.irnv ever pub.
lifticrt : Or a complete GhOGRAPHY of ihc
WORLD, brought down to the piefent time.
IN TWO PARTS.
The General Content* are—
PART I. —Ot Ailronomy, asconne&ed with,
and introdu6lnry to the frience of Geography :
undfr this head will he given an account of the
icvetai afbojiomical fyitems of the Woild, and
a particular description of the true one. A lablc
of the diameters, periods, &c. of the fiveral
Planets in the i'olar fyttem—an account of the
Comets and fixed stars.
Of Geography — its use and progr«»fs—
figure, magnitude and motion of the Edith—
D -idliine of 1 lie Sphere— Geographical cnclc*—
Divisions ol the Earth into zones and climates
— methods of finding the latitude and longitude
of places from celellial oblervations—Globes,
and (heir use—with a number of the moll ufe
ful and entertaining Geographical Problems and
Theoiems—Maps, and iheir use—sources of heat
and cold—theory of the winds and tides —length
of miles in different countries—natural divisions
of the E"atth—account of the Gregorian or new
stile, &c.
America—lts discovery by Columbus—
gen< ral dcfcription of the Continent, in which is
a lengthy difcufiion of the question, When,
whence, and by whom, was America fiift peo
pled ? With a long and entertaining account of
the Indians,and the late discoveries on the north
west coast, Scz.—North America—chrono
logical account of its discovery and fcttlements,
its divisions —I>an ish America, British
America, Un it ed St at es of America —
general description of them, including a hiltory
of the late war, and many other ufeful and en
tertaining matters. South America—its di
visions, particular description of its several pro
vinces and countries. West India Islands,
&c
*** This part of the work will be illustrated
by maps of the eountnes defenbed, from the
corrected copies.
PART 11. — Containing every thing essential
which is contained in the bell and laieft quaito
edition of Guthrie's and other Britilh Geogra
phies, with fele&ions from celebrated naviga
tors, travellers and lefpe&able authors of oihei
nations, &c.
Of Europe in general—its grand divifioos,
particular geographical dcfcriptions of its seve
ral Kingdoms and Republics, &c. Of Asia—
itsfuuation, boundaries, general history, parti
cular descriptions of its fcveral divisions, &c.
Of Africa — iis general history, boundaries,
grand divisions, &c, Also, new discoveries,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tically arranged—Chronological Table of re
markable events, discoveries and inventions, lift
of men of learning and genius, with other ulelul
mi fee Many 1— — =-
*** This part will also be illustrated with
maps of the countries described.
TO THE PUBLIC
THE Author is sensible that the firft edition
of his American Geography (which makes Part
I. of the above work) was in many instances de
fe£live, in others erroneous, and in fomeoffen
five. It has been his endeavour, as it was his
desire, in the present edition, to supply the defi
ciencies, corrcft the errors, and meliorate the
offenfive parts of the last. To aflilt him in this
business, he has received many valuable commu
nications from the heads of departments in the
general government, and from gentlemen of re
fpeftability in the feveial states. The descrip
tion of foreign countries (which compofcs Part
11. of the above work] has been carefully com
piled from the mod approved writers on Geo
graphy, and ufeful information introduced from
the difcoverics of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and rcfpe&able authors. Indeed, no pains
nor expenfc have been spared to render this wot k
the mod complete, accurate, and ufeful of any
ever offered to the public.
DI ST RI cT »/" p R N NSX LvaNl A, to <uii.
T) E IT REMEMBERED, That on
( Seal. l he thirteenth day of March, in
\ / the seventeenth year of the Indepen
dence ol the United States of America,
Thomas Dorson, of the said Diftricl, hath dc
pofited in this Office, the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following, to wit.
44 An Enquiry how Jar the Punifkment of Death
u is necejfary in PennJ]lvanta. With Notes and
44 lliujlrations. By William Bradford, Esq.
" To which is added, an Account of the Gaol and
'• Penitentiary liouje of Philadelphia, and of the
4< interior Management theteoj\ By Caleb
44 Lownes, oj Philadelphia. If we enquire
44 into the Causes oj all human Corruptions., we
" fhalljind that they proceed from the Impunity
44 oj Crimes, and not from the Moderation of Pu
-44 nijkments." Montefq.
In conformity to the Ast of the Congress of
the United States, intituled, u An Ast ior the
Encouragement of Learning, by securing the
Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the
Times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dtftrift of Pennsylvania.
The above work is fold in Charlejlon
William Price Young ; Richmond, by Archibald
Currit : Baltimore, />y James Rice : New-York,
iy Thomas Allen : lioflon, David IVe/l.
N E W T E A S.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG
Of the very firfi\)ualiiy,and laieft importation
from Canton, via New-Yoi! , by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chcfnut and Market Streets,
N. B. A few Boxes oj the above IJYSON/<?» faU.
PHI LAD*L»RIA, jMuanrj. ~p „
Mathew Carey
RefpeftruUy inform,,he c;.i„ PI „f , h ~
State,, that the Map, f„, h „ imem6^ lrd
rditionnf
Guthrie's Geography
IMPRO V K D J
Are now engraving—ami as Coon , ffurf r ■ ,
number ot them are fimlherl. m feet,,',
R i.l.r fnpplv during ,lu- publication, wh "£
w, probably be eurlj next !>p, the 'l
will be put toprels " OIK
He return, hi. arknowlertgm, m,tn
refpeftabk number ol SuMnibe.., wh „
come forward il.us early ,o p„,o„i,.r ,h„..dj
He aff.irej ill in and
lie in general, that no paui. or txpmfe Itiail be
spared in the execution of the w.irk.
Terms of the Work ; •
l. IT foal! be puhlilhnl in 4 g»«rkl„„iirth ffl
each con'auiing three (heeu, or
pages, ot letter piefs, in qiiailn, pnnitd with
new types on fine oaper.
ir. Iri the com le of ihe work will bedeli»e f
ert about thirty large maps, „f t l,e lame f, lt . ,j
thofctn the huropeanrdiii.ms, viz. moftotihcm
(hect maps on post paper.
fpr Ikfida the maps in the BrUiJh edition <, this
work oitH contain nine or ten American State Maps.
111. The price of each number will be a
quarter Hnlbr, to be paid ori delivery.
advance required.
IV. Subfcribrit who disapprove o( the work
on the publication of the three firtt numheii, aie
to be at liberty to return them, and (hall h <ve
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibns' names (hall beprtfiied
as patron* of the undertaking.
*»* Sublcriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publisher; in New-Yoik, by ail
the book fellers; in Ncw-Haven, by Mr. Been
in Hartford, by Mr. Pauen; in Bolton,b v MtE.
Thomas &c Andrews, and by Mr. Weft ; in Bal
timore, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond, by Mr.
J. Carey; in Charirfton, by Mr. W. P. Young,
and by (undry other peifons throughout the
United Stales. (tawil)
BOOKS,
P Jl I JJ T I'D AND SOLD BY
M ATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Mar kit-Street, Philadelphia,
t. ME R [CAN MUSEUM, fiom its commence-
X JL inent 111 January 1787, to June 1792, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered,
lev en tee o dollars and three fifths.
This work, which was conduflcd on an im
proved plan, contains the bell picces publifhfd
for and against the proceedings of government,
will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural,and miscellaneous eflays,
as any ever published in America. Perhaps in no
one work are so many valuable docum< ntsrefprft
ing the hilloi y of this country, cplle&cd together.
His Excellency the Freu&etTTot fhc
has declared of it, that 44 a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
oue more deserving of public encouragement"
-- o-. -Smith's Lctiets to Married Women, on Nurf.
ing and the management of Children.
41 We recommend these letters to the perusal of
rhofe to whom they are particularly addrefled," —
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. lOi—Price, bound,
6a cents.
g. Duncan's Elements of Logic—-75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of Blair— 50 cents.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mid
More's E flays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning*
ton's Advice, Marchionels of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a nesvly married Lady.Mis. Clia
pone on command ot Temper, Morc's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's Hillory of New-York. Piice a dol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by Jamesßeat
tie, 1.1.d. profeffoi of moral pbilofophy and
logic in the Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. #69, p. 628) lay : "We
have feed nothing on these fubje&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."— —
N. B. It is introduced into the University in Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry* Price four-filths of ®
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
11. Necker'sTreatife on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifth* of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bths of a dollar.
13. The Conftitutionsof the several United Statesi
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Pric* five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Pricethree-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths of
a dollar. .■
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a do.lar.
1 7 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate «i
---ble, in quarto—Price, elegantly bound and letter
ed, 50/4— plaifi, fix dollars. : .
18. Devout Chrtftian's Vade Mccum—Price
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Christian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar. .
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys— Pricea t ir
of a dollar.
23. SeleA Poems, chiefly American*—Pricc*
sixth of a dollar. e
Said Carey has for sale, a large affortrrfOtel
Books, European as well as American edition*,
which he will difpole of on the most realoiia >
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor birn wi
commands, may depend upon being fupp» c 1
rhe moll fatisfactory manner. A liberal allow«n
---to such as purchase quantities foi public li rat
or to fell again.
TO JSE SOLD EY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paying C°i<i
graduated according to Law—BlankMam c
And Blanks for the various Power* of Att°riey
ncceffary in Bufmefs at the Trea iy
or Bank of the the United States.