A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNOjJNo. 34, NOPTH FIFTH.STRF.ET, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 66 of Vol. IV.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
SATURDAY, January 5.
CO N TINUATION OF THE
DEBATE on MR. STEELE'S MOTIOJf,
• For reducing tl'e Army.
MR. MOORE said, the resolution as now
worded, contemplates the reduction of
the army to two regiments. No rc=?b.-jS.
been intioduced for thismeafure, which were
cot brought forward in the firft difcuflion of
tto fubjeft. He thought that t.'.e rc ifons for
continuing the army, existed with additional
force. He observed, that granting abuses had
taken place, it was no good reason for repeal
ing a law. If abnfes do exist, which he by no
means thought to be fact, this was not the
way to correct those abuses. But he insisted,
that the mode proposed as a fubftituttf for car
rying on the war, was the way to encreafe
those abuses—the opportunities would be en
creafed—and the meansgreatly diminiflied, by
reason of the distance, of detesting & prevent
ing them. He enlarged on this idea; and then
entered into a consideration of the queftibn,
whether the militia or the regular troops
were the most eligible to be employed in an
Indian war?—tie stated the difficulties and
expcnces arising from the militia system—it
would be much greater than it has ever yet
been. Adverting to the fyfter.i adopted by
Congrcfs, he observed that two ebjefts ap
peared to have been in view at that time—
those objects exist at the prefeßt moment;
they have reference to two species of force—
a defenfive, and an incurfive. He said if no
other thaw a militia was contemplated, -the
Indians would never make a permanent
peace. The iticurfions of the militia, and the
burning of their town's, will uever bring the
Indians to terms—permament pods must be
eftablilhed ; a reipeclablc force must be fixed
In their neighborhood. He alluded to the
treaties which had already been made—the
repeated violations of those treaties. Fear
only can keep the savages within any bounds.
Nothing el re can effeit a lasting peace. A
permanent regular force is then the necefTary
result—the experience of the French, Spani
ards and English, fufficiently enforce the pro
priety and necessity of regular troops. Here
ho entered into a consideration of the differ
ence between such regular troops as he con
templated, and those to which gentlemen ap
peared to be opposed. Added to the advan
tages of difcipiine, the regular troops may be
trained to fight the Indians in their own way,
to greater purpose than any militia ever can.
On the whole, he was clearly of opinion that
the present was not the time to reduce the
military force of the country—and (hould
therefore vote the motion.
Mr. AVilliamfbn so far supported the mo
tion, as to suggest the reducing the number
of officers on the regular eftabliihment, to the
number of men in actual service, and to stop
recruiting after the month of March.
Mr. Mad i Ton said the present discussion in
volved a revival of the tjueftion agitated the
)aft session, whether the militia or regular
troops were to be preferred in carrying on the
Indian war?—lt is said that this is not the
time to reduce the military force of the coun
try—that the President is invested with the
power of reducing the army—that while im
portant negotiations are pending, it will be
attended with inauspicious effects to leflen
the imprejfions of our power on the mind of
the Indians. These considerations, he ac
knowledged to be weighty—but if the force
of the country can be continued on as rc
fpeftable a footing as alt present, and at the
lame time the expence greatly diminiftied,
the government would be inexcusable not to
do it. It is supposed that this may be done
in perfect consistency with impressing the ene
my with the failed imprellion of our power.
He suggested therefore the eligibility of com
peting the effe&ive force by the addition of
volunteer militia—to organize compleatly the
regular troops already raised—and to reftrilt
them to the number that they at present con
sist of. To reduce this idea to effect, he sug
gested to the gentleman from North-Carolina
a modification of his motion, by an amend
ment in conformity to these ideas.
Mr. Steele said he was perfectly in senti
ment with the gentleman, in regard to the
propriety of inferring an amendment to the
motion, which might fecureafufficient appro
priation to carry on ofL'nfive operations a
giinft the hostile Indians, by the militia of the
frontiers ; and if an alteration was proposed
t« that effect, he would fecoud it. "The at
i If-., STi.i-'-V"-'
WE&ifEsbAY, JANUARY 16, 1793.
tention of the K011R: to this question speak?
its importance ; it is probable, one move im
portant will not occur during the present ses
sion. On its decision are suspended the hopes
and fears of the people of this country, their
hopes of a speedy and honorable peace, and
their fears of 3 standing army, with its ui'ual
retinue of political evils.
The present is regarded as *n interesting
epoch in the affairs of the United States; and
it has been perceived, with serious regret,
that while our national character is forming
{he hoped it was not yet formed) it seems to
partake in some ref|>efts more of the unnatn
ral spirit of monarchy, than of the mild and
conciliatory temper of a republic. The prin
ciple of keeping up standing armies, though
highly obnoxious to the great body oi the peo-
P le i iias not been equally so to the govern
ment ; they have been maintained and eil
creafed without affording prote&ion, or even
defence- to-th* fumrtcrs i the fuppiies necef
c» support the eftabliftmient, begins to
discover an alarming derangement of the pub
lic finances, and it is now incumhent on' the
House cf l'ieyrefentatives to check this grow
ing mifchief.
Mr. Steele then adverted to the effects of
{landing armies on the morals and political
fentimeats of the people, wherever thev had
been employed; of the expenfivenefs of all
such establishments, and of the wicked purpos
es to which they had been, and might be sub-
fcrvicnt. He laid, he had prepared himfelf to
have spoken largely to this pcint, and to have
quoted the pernicious effects of fucli a policy
in other options ; but the debate having been
already lengthy, and the committee probably
fatigued, it would be fufficient for his present
purpose for the members to make their own
reflections, and to mark the rapid progrelTion
of the army from 1789 to 179 3 » bo'h i" num
bers and expcnces. Instances from foreign
history are fuperfluous, when our own affords
such ample testimony. The eftabliihment be
gan with one regiment, it is now five ; the
Hotife was called on in 1789 to appropriate a
little more than 100,00 a dollars for mat de
partmeut, in the pre Lent year above one mil
lion is demanded. The reason of this extra
ordinary additional expenditure, -tbss urss
pefted encreafe of the army, if not enveloped
in darkness, has been founded on policy hi
therto not fatisfaftorily explained. He said,
however lightly he was disposed to touch this
part of the fubjeft, he could not avoid re
minding the committee of the memorable sen
timents of 1776, in regard to standing armies;
of the universal abhorrence of the Americans
to them at that time; and to illustrate it
more clearly, he read the expreflions of some
of the states in their Bills of Rights. These
were the sentiments of the whigs of 1776, and
to ftich whigs he wished to appeal on thistoc
cafion.
He also reminded the committee of the re
cent debates of 1788, of the amendments pro
posed in several state conventions, of the una
nimity which prevailed among all ranks of
people on this particular point; and it is now
to be lamented, said he, that while the ink
which recorded these objections to the consti
tution is yet drying, the evil then predicted
has taken place.
If there is a subject on which much delibe
ration is unneceflary, in order to forming a
right opinion, it would be in regard to mili
tary eftabli(hments; the feelings of a free
people revolt at their continuance; and every
man who reads, or can point out their
dangers.
He said, he felt more anxiety for the fate
of this motion, than commonly markshis con
duit, because this isthelaft lei Eon that will
fever afford him an opportunity to trouble the
House with his sentiments on this, or any o
ther fubjetfl. The motion was brought for
ward to dil'charge a duty which he owed to
his constituents, to fatisfy his own confer
ence, and to afford that protection to the fron
tiers which they deserved, and to save the
public money. If an uncommon degree of
zeal was discovered in supporting the motion,
it ought to be attributed to thefe,and no other
motives.
The question will now soon be taken—if
adopted, I (hall be among those who rejoice ;
if rejected, among those who have always £üb
mittud with a proper degree of decency to the
decision of the majority. But in any event,
the public will know that we have aflerted
the sense oftjie people against ftandingjarmies,
that we are anxious to defend the frontiers
against their enemies, that we have recom
mended a system of occonomy and efficiency,
instead of profufion and delay, that we have
recommended a system calculated to produce
victory and peace, instead of disgrace anc}
war, and that we wilh to rescue the govern
ment from the intoxication of the times, and
all the apery of military establishments.
He said, he had been attentive to the argu.
mentt of the opposition, and they tend prin
cipally to four points. If neither of these po
sitions be found tenable, the motion will cer
tainly fuccecd ; and that they are not tenable,
is believed and wili be ihewn.
261
Ift. It has been boldly asserted that the
President is the author of the existing system.
2dly. Tbey call in question the sincerity of
our declarations in wishing to afford effe&ual
protection to the frontiers.
3dly. They deny the competency of the
militia.
4thly. The impolicy of reducing the efta.
biilhment, when a treaty is expected.
In regard to the firft, we deny that the Pre
sident is the author of this plan of prosecuting
the war, not having avowed explicitly himfelf
that he is so, & no document appearing to con
firm that opinion, we are juftifiedin attribut
ing a system which appears to us ineffectual,
to his Secretary and not to him.
It is true that the Secretary is only a fin
ger of his hand, and the intimate connexion
which must of necessity subsist between theto,
perhaps is the ground upon which the aflerti
r/n has been made. The Secretaries are all
equally near to the President, and if it be ad
mitted that he is the author of this, he may
with equal propriety, be said to have beer,
.the author of every fyftemon general ftibjefts
which either of them have recommended.
Was he the author of the report on the fifli
eries ? Was be the author of the plan for ef
tablilhingthe National Bank: It is-known
that he was itot, and circumstances might be
mentioned (which are withheld from delicacy)
to confirm this opinion.
Was he the author of the funding f} Item ?
Some gentlemen in the apportion to thli mo
tion, would not be willing to. give the Presi
dent that credit if he claimed it ; and some
who support this motion, would not only be
sorry that the President Had even claimed such
a credit, but believe that it was in no respect
attributable to him. The fame gentleman
(Mr. Wadfworth) who firft afierted that the
President was the author of this military plan,
in the fame speech admitted it to be the war,
as well as the plan of the lionTe, and then ar
gued on the necessity of liability in our mea
sures. It is eat very material to the prelent
question whose plaji in is; being a pubiic mea
sure, we are juftified in offering our objections
to it ; and tins is the firft time that I have
heard it publickly alferted that a government
.VmM jx'rfevere ia jn etror, hifffaufr* th« Vhad
undertaken it. If the plan be a good one, it
may be l'upported by reason ; if a bad one, no
name ought to be called ii) to prop it up.
The inconsistency of that gentleman's (Mr.
Wadfworth) arguments not only supports the
motion before the committee, but shews the
wretched fhifts which have been used to de
feat it.
It has been Paid in the course of the debate,
that individual members, and even this lioufe,
are incompetent to decide upon the efficacy
or inefficacy of military plans. In answer to
this it may be said, that if we are not all Ge
nerals, we are all members, and that we have
the privilege of thinking for ourselves and for
our constituents. To admit this doftrir.e in
the latitude which has been expressed, would
be t» introduce military ideas indeed; it would
be to mak» soldiers of tis, instead of legisla
tors; nay worse than that, it would be to re
vive the exploded doctrines of pafiive obedi
ence and non-resistance.
In regard to the sincerity of his intentions
to afford effectual protection to the frontiers,
Mr. Steele said that he had been Efficiently
explicit, that a feeling for the fufferers had
dictated this motion ; that he was sorry it had
been whiipered in the ears of some of the
n'embers, that it was intended to withhold
the necessary appropriations, and divert them
to other purposes.
If two regiments were inefficient to gar
rison all the posts necessary for defence, he
would even under certain reftriflions, cfth
fent to continue the three sub-legions, there
by enabling the President to eftablifli double
the number of posts now erected if he should
deem it adviieable. Regular troops being in
capable of a&ive expeditions against Indians
in the wilderness, his wilh was to abandon
that system, and confine them entirely to the
garrison.
The next obje&ion to the motion is the in
competency of the militia, and to support this
opinion the gentleman from Conne&icut (Mr.
Wadfworth) has made this expreflion, " that as
to the expedition under General St. Clair, the
regulars were tew, and not to be named when
Compared with the number of the militia." The
truth is there was not a man engaged that day
as a militia man, except the advance guard com
manded by Col. Oldham, which Confided of
300, perhaps a few more, the field return of the
day preceding the action being in the war-office,
this can be ascertained with precision. The
ballanceof the army on that unfortunate day,
had been entitled as regulars, even cloathed as
regulars, wrre fought as regulars, and poor fel
lows, died like regulars. They fuffered the fate
which awaits every regular army destined for si
milar expeditions. Even the handful of militia
employed that day, did not deserve that name,
they were chiefly fubftituies for draughted men
from theceded territory. This draught bccame
unavoidable, from a misfortune to General Se
vier, which Mr. Steele related.
The attack on Major Adaii has also been men
tioned at a proof of the incompetency of mili-
[Whole No. 588.]
tia and Mr. Steele infilled, that the only infer
ence which could be drtwft from thence was,
that 100 militia were able to repel, but not del
ftroy near 200 Indians.—This event he conceiv
ed was in favor, and not against his motion.
He next adverted to the argument of Mr.
Wadfworth, in regard to the war of 1,76* ; of
the eftabhfhmeni of poftj in PenDfylvania 'and
Virginia,and of the fucctfs of Colonel Bouqu t's
expedition. If two worn-out rcgimentsat that
time were fufficient to defend the frontiers, and
with the aid of the militia, to terminate the
■war, two new tegiments,in them, all the vigour
which the gentleman described to now poflefj,
with the aid of eflablilhed posts, and a much
more effective militia, can certainly be equal to
the fame end Al'er examining Mr. W.'s
arguments for some time, Mr. Steele said, that
when analyzed, it would be found, that they
proved more than they were intended to prove f
but the merits of this motion did not require
that he (hould take advantige of these indirec
tions.
He (hewed from the hi ft or? of 1762, that tho*
potts wttt eftahlilhed, with a handful of regu
lar troops in each, they never answered the pur
pose of efi"«£lual proteftinn ; but t,he frontier
people Were always obliged, in a great degree,
to defend themselves j that thev were best cal
culated for that service, and that they would
perform it now with alacri'y and Cucccfs, if
well rewarded.
Mr '. ?'f cle t ' lfn refuted the objection against
the itiilitia on account 6f their waste and ex
pence which Mr. W. had alluded to. The law
allows a mounted volunteer, furnifhing himfelf
with a good horse, good arms, piovifions, and
every other nereflarv, except ammunitinu, at hts
own risque and cxpcr.ce, one dollar per day.
The ci£)ft ex pence of such an expedition, can be
calculated. Whether (uccefsful or not, the
charge to the public cannot be mcreafed. The
contractors, quarter-matter's and hospital de
partments are a'l avoided, with the abufes.ex
pencer and frauds attending such eltablilhments.
Mr. Steele enlarged upon this point, and faiii
that these are always found to be the most expci .
five departments in any armv, and that the fe
deral treafuiy had fell their effects already. In
favor ol the militia it mav h<- aflted, who fought
the battle of Bunker's Hill ? Who fought the
battle of New.Jersey f Who have fought (he
Indians so often with success, under GcneraU
Wirktnton, Str7it, »ct ontl —uifijri s T —Wtto
marched in 1776 under General Rutherford,
through the Cherokee nation, laid waste their
country, and forced them to peace ? Who (ought
the battles of Georgia, under Clark and Twiggs ?
Who fought the battles of South-Carolina, un
der the command of an honorable member, now
preGnt ? Delicacy forbids to enlarge upon his
fuccefles in his pre fence.
Who fought the ever memorable battles of
Cowpens, King's Mountain, Hanging Rock,
Blackftocks ; the ?i\ots, on which the revolu
tion turned in the southern States ? In (bort,
who fought all the battles of the southern States,
while we had a mere handful of regular troops,
scarcely the (hadow, much less the reality of an
army ?
They were all fought by freemen, the substan
tial freeholders of the country : men attached to
the revolution from priuciple : men who wero
sensible of their tights, and fought for them.
Such men will not enlist in regular armies, nor
will any one who has the disposition, or the con
ftitutton of a frteman. It would give me pain
to describe the trash which compose* all regular
armies: They enlist for three dollars a month ;
which, in p country like the Unttc-d States, is a
fufticicnt description of their bodies as well as
their minds. Such men are not fit to combat
the moll a£live enemy in the world. Here Mr.
Steele read Major Gaither's and Major True*
man\s depositions, refpe&ing the defeat of lh«
±th November, 1791, dating, that they could
not fee the Indians, because they were behind
trees, &cc, that the regular troops tried, but
could not fight that way ; that tb?y ffemed t*
be stupid, and incapable of refinance ; 2nd that
if any General in the wprld had commanded
such men that day, he muil have been defeated
as they were.
An additional areument, and one of the most
weighty too, against regular expeditions, in this
fpectesof warfare, is that by the slowness of
their movements, the force of the enemy may
be concentrated, —time is afforded them to form
alliances, and to confederate against those whom
they consider a common enemy. Tt is other
wise with militia incursions. He offered a num-*
ber of reasons to (hew that it was so, and how
e(Tent?al for the interest of the United States, to
adopt a policy calculated to detach the tribes
from each other as mucb as pollibte.
But it h?« beeu said the(e men were not regu
lar .troops. Mr. Steele aflced, what theo were
they ? They surely were not militia.
The last objc&ion, and the Icaft serious of all,
to this motion, is che expectations of a treaty in
the spring. Mr. Steele laid, if he thought
gentleman who threw this difficulty in the way,
believed himfelf that we have any reason to ex*
pe6i a permanent peace from the treaty now pro
posed, it may deferye an anlwei, Fasts arc
more to be relied upon than words: from the
channel through which these proportions have
come—from the whole complexion of their
talks, and from the late attack on Major Adair,
it may fafely be alferted, that no peace can be
effr&ed in the spring.
lie recapitulated fomeof the difficulties which
this motion had to conflict, aod fajd, that becould mention other*, if he was at liberty to do
to. Under such circumftancej, success i» hardly
to be expefled ; —but he knew that the merits
ofthfcqjoiion deserved it.
He Could not fetdown, without making one
remark upon the calculation! and statement ot
expenccs in the war deparimcnt, offered to the
Committee by Mr. Wadfwoith last Wedneldav {
aud though the gentleman then spoke unguard
edly of mv calculations, I feel too much deli
cacy to retort. I ftatid at the commencement
of this debate, that in 1792 there was appropri
ated by law for the Quarter-Master's Depart
ment, 50,000 dollars ;
Mr. Wadfworth ftatesto have
been iftthat year appropri
ated by law,
Difference* 7«,00Q
I have re-examined my statement, compared
it with the law, find it was correct ; and there
is no document in poffclllon of the House to
prove, either that his statement is.so, or that
mine is not so.
Indeed, the inaccuracy of his statement if ex
plained and proved by this {ingle circumstance :
In 1792 the law appropriated 50,000 for that de
partment, on ancftimateof 2128 noo-commif
fioned officers and privates, and in 1793* which
is the mod extravagant estimate wc h«ive ever
had, the Secretary at war only demands for the .
Quarter-Master's Department, on an establish- ,
rnent of 5x20 nop-comm; {Honed officers and
privates, the sum ol 100,000 dollars. JsiMea
fonable tofuppofe, that an army of 2000 men,
would require more (lores, than an army- of
5000 ? Or hns it been customary for that officer
to leflen the demands, as the establishment en
creafed ? Tha appropriaiion laws, and the Trea
sury of the United States, can answer this ques
tion. The gentleman's llatement is inaccurate
in moreinftances than this—but one is enough
for my purpose. Having made this appear,
Mr. Steefre said he would not speak .again, noi
would he hold himfelf bound to reply to any
observations that might be .made, either in re
gard to his motion or his calculations.
Mr. Hillhouf<* obterved, that nothing had been
advanced in the whole course of this de
bate, but what he had heard mentioned last
winter in the house. He was then opposed iri
principle to a war establishment and he still re
tained the fame opinion ; but from the present
complexion of affairs, it appeared to him, that
be ought to submit, and give up his own opinion
to the general feiife of the legiflaturc, which at
present seemed to be, for persevering in the fyf
tcmalready adopted,and which, as it had scarce
ly had time for a fair tri?l r he thought, ought not
to be arrested, perhaps in the very instant when
its efficacy was to be expe&ed. ,If peace ftiou-ld
not be'cftabliffied.during next ,fiimmer, he
would then join with such as would
propole a better system—but as the la w provides
for exercising the discretionary powers of the
executive, it would" be be# to rely 011 .them—
a standing aimv lie said was a thing impoflible
to be established in th£ United States whilst -
the House of Representatives have the power of
granting money on'y for two years at any time ;
he therefore had no fears on that score. An ar
my existing in time of peace, was the idea he
had of a (landing army i anxLnoL »'my em
bodied tor only a year or two : upon the whole,
it would be as expensive to disband the present
force, and institute another of militia, See. as.it
will be to keep up the existing e.ftabHfhment r for
a little longer time ; it was therefore his advice,
to let the matter reft where it was, with-the ex
ecutive for the present. Butincale ; of a peace
not being acconiplifhed within a reasonable pe
riod, he would join those who would be for a
change in the system ; and he was, clearly of
opinion, that a system rnVght cafily be adopted,
not only to protett our frontiers by repelling the
Savages, but to exterminate them altogether.
(Debate to be continued.)
Saturday, January 12,
Mr. Benfon presented a petition from Robert
Eden, a Yorkshire (England) farmer, stating
that he has emigrated to the United States, and
brought with him to New-York, a stock of hor
ses and cattle of the.firft quality; for which he
was charged 7fper cent, import, and for which
he has been obliged to give fecunty. Tne prayer
of the petition is for an exemption of duty,
and to extend a similar benefit to such of his
countrymen as may emigrate to the United
States; many of whom, he intimates, are inclin
ed to come hither, and to import part of their
moll valuable stock. Ordered, that Mr. Eden's
petition be referred to a feleft Committee, Mess.
Benfon, Madilon, and Sedgwick.
Two petitions from the files of the !aft house
were referred to fele& committees, viz. of Abra
ham Kimberly, and of Francis Keller 5 each
praying a grant of land on the river Ohio.
The Secretary of theTreafury's report on the
petition of Griffith Jones, was referred to a fe
le& committee.
The petitions of Ludwig Kuhn, and Ebenezef
Foster, were referred to the Treasury Depart
ment.
The House took into consideration the fubje<a
of the resolutions for loaning the balances which
may appear to be due from the United States to
the individual States. On this a lengthy debate
took place.
The resolutions were finally amended to read
thus—
Resolved, That a loan to the amount of the
balance which (upon a final settlement of ac
counts) (hull be found due from the United States
to the individual States, be opened at the Loan
Offices in the rcfpeftive States, to commence
within months after the said balances
(hall be reported at the Treasury, and to contin
ue open for the term of months from
the time of its commencement: Provided that
no such loan fliall be opengd in any State wlth
eut the afient of the Legislature thereof, by an
a6l approving of the meaf'ure.
Resolved, That the sums to be subscribed to
such loans, be payable in the principal or inter
est of the certificates or notes issued by any such
of the said States, as (upon the final settlement
of accounts) (hall have a balance due to them
from the United States, and which (hall have
been liquidated to specie value, prior to the
day of lad.
Resolved, That every fubfiriber to the said
loan, (hall be entitled to certificates, according
to the sum subscribed, of the like tenor uid de
fcriptiotis, in the like proportions, and upon the
ike terms, as are fpecified and directed by the
fifteenth and finteenth fe&ions of ad the aintitu
led, " An ast making provision for the debt of
the United States," except, that interest on such
of the certificates, subscribed to the said loan,
as bear interest, shall be computed to the last
day of the year one thousand seven hundred end
ninety-three, indufively, and that interest shall
not begin to accrue upon any of the certificates
which (hall be iCTued in lieu thereof'till the firft
120,000
day of January, one thousand seven hundred
ninety-four. ,
Refolded, That in all cases, wher* the sum
subscribed in the evidence of the debt of any
State, (hall exceed the balance due to such State,
the famelhall be reduced (in equal proportions)
to the sum a dually du« to such State.
' The resolutions as thus amended, being adopt
ed by the House, a committee confuting of the
following members, viz. Meflrs. Fitzfimons,
Sedgwick, and Smith, S. C. was appointed to
report a bill. Adjourned.
MONDAY, JANUARY 14.
A report was read on the petition of Elijah
Boftwick, which was in favour of the peti
tioner.
Mr. Lawrance presented the petition of the
officers of the Delaware line of the late continen
tal army. Read and referred to the committee
of the whole.
Mr. Parker prfcfented the petition of Thomas
Wifliart, a ferjeant in the Virginia line of the
late array. Read and referred to the Secretary
of War.
The bill for fettling the claims ofperfons not
barred by any ad of limitation, and which have
hot been heretofore adjusted, was ordered to b"c
engrossed for a third reading.
The House proceeded in the discussion of the
bill to regulate trade and intercourse with the
Indian tribes. Several amendments were pro
posed and difcufied. Some of these were agreed
to, and then, by general consent, the bill was
laid on the table till to-morrow.
Mr. Hartley laid the following motion on the
table, That a committee be appointed to pre
pare and report a bill to make provision of half
pay for the widows and orphans of such officers
of the army of the United States who may have
been killed since the third day of June, 1784,
or who may be hereafter killed in the service of
the United States.
A meflage was received from the President
of the U. S. by Mr. Lear, his Secretary, inform •
ing the Hotife that ne has approved and signed
two ads which originated in the House, viz.
an ad to amend the ad for establishing a mint,
and to regulate the coins of the United States, so
far as refpedi the coinage of copper—and an ad
for granting interest on a claim allowed by a re
solution of the late Congress, as an indemnifica
tion to the pcrftms therein mentioned.
Mr. Boudinot moved for. the order of the day,
on the Bankrupt Law—The importance of this
fubje<st to the general interest, and that of
a number of individuals in several of. the dates,
who, by reafori of the state governments being
precluded from pafling bankrupt laws, are in a
very diftrefled situation, was urged by several of;
the members. It was further observed, that it
had long been before Congress, and if it was not
taken up at the present feflion, it was very pro
blematical whether it would be completed at the
next feflion.
In opposition to the motion it was observed,
that though the business has been a long time
on the carpet, yet it had not been reduced to any
fpecific fqrm till very lately—that the bill had
been laid before the public for the express pur
pose of collecting..the general sense of the peo
p e on the fubjedl—fufficient time has not elaps
ed for this purpose, and therefore it was not pof-'
fible for the legillature to proceed in the busi
ness, aidtfd by the general sense of their consti
tuents relative thereto.
The. motion was at length withdrawn, and,
on motion of Mr. Gerry, the House refblved it-'
felf into a committee of the whole
in the chair) and took into confederation tfre me
morials of the officers of the several lines of the
late army, on the fubjedt of a deficiency of their
P a y* The several memorials were, from the N.
Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsyl
vania, Delaware and Maryland lines. The New
Hampshire and Pennsylvania Memorials being
read,
Mr. Gerry said, in order to bring the fubje&
before the committee, he should move the fol
lowing resolution, viz. Resolved, as the opinion
of this committee,* that the contra# between
Congress and a part of the officers and soldiers
of the armies raised for the establishment of the
Independence of the United States, has not been
fulfilled on the part of Congress.
This motion, was seconded by Mr. Parker.
Mr. Gerry accompanied his motion by several
observations,in which he shewed that a deprecia
ted medium could never be confideredasan equi
valent for services and supplies which were con
tracted to be paid for in specie.
Several members objededto the indefinitenefs
th s is L refo,Ution * They suggested the proprie
ty of the mover's bringing forward a sketch of
the plan for which he intended the resolution as
a basis.
Mr. Midi fen suggested a variation of the
proposition to the simple quellion on the pro
priety of granting the prayer of the petitions.
After several observations from other mem
bers, and the Chairman had remarked that the
resolution of Mr. Gerry was not in order, as
refering to a part of the officers, whereas the
memorials made no diftin&ion.
Mr. Clark moved, in order to take the sense
of the cemmittee, the following, Refofved, as
the opinion of this committee, that the prayer of
the petitions of officers of several lines of the
262
late American army, cannot be granted, and tliat
the petitioners have leave to withdraw their pe
titions.
This motion occasioned a debate. Mr. Ma
dison, Mr. Baldwin and Mr. Mercer, sustained
the general prayer of the petitions. Mr. Clark
opposed it. Some gentlemen opposed the_torm
of the motion, as tending to cramp the difcufli
on of the business. It wasfuggefted to the mo
ver, the eligibility of suspending it.
After some further remarks, Mr. Clark mo
ved that the committee ftiould rife. The com
mittee accordingly rose, and had leave to fit
again. Adjourned.
» TUESDAY, Jan.-U-
An engrnffed bill, relative to
claims against the United States,not
barred by any atfi of limitation,and
which have not heretofore been ad
justed, was read the third time and
parted.
Mr, Fitzfimons reported a bill to
authorise a loan, payable in the cer
tificates or notes of such states, as
shall have balanc* due to tbem on
a final settlement of accounts with
the United States—read twice, and
committed for Monday next.
A report in favor of William Sey
mour was read,and laid on the table.
Mr. Greenup called up his motion
for a committee to report a bill, for
placing on the pension lift ftich offi
cers and soldiers of the militia as
have becrifjuMna/ bo wowuded or
difabledin the service of the United
States, and who are not provided
for by law—this motion was refer
red to a committee of the whole
House, for Thursday next.
The bill to regulate trade and in
tercourse with the Indian tribes,was
again taken into'confideration —Mr.
Madison read an amendment, which
he proposed as a substitute for the
Bth feJiion,which refers to purchas
es of lands from the Indians—this,
with a proviso to another fe<Sion,
moved by Mr. Greenup, w as laid on
the table.
Mr. Smith called ujj the memorial
of sundry merchants of South-Caro
lina, stating the lofles they sustain
ed by the depreciation of paper mo
ney, and the peculiar hard(hips they
arc exposed to in consequence there
of, by the 4th article of the treaty
of peace with Great-Britain—and
praying relief in the premises.—
This memorial being read, Mr.
Smith moved that it should be refer
red to the committee of the whole
on the petitions of the officers of
the late army.—This motion occa
sioned a debate ; those who opposed
it, contended that it was a distinct
and different cafe from that of the
officers—that it involved a very dif
ferent investigation and could not
therefore be connected with it—it
appeared to be designed to embar
rass and perplex the application of
the officers.
In support of the motion, a varie
ty of reasons were adduced to shew
that the cases were parallel—and
that there was no propriety in mak
ing a diftindlion between different
clafles of citizens in their applica
tions for relief in similar cales.—
After considerable debate, it was
moved that the ayes and noes (hould
be called on the motion : This mo
tion was arretted by the previous
question being moved, in the follow
ing words—-' Shall the main ques
tion be now put ?'—this was deter,
mined in the affirmative, yeas 30,
nays 24. The main question for the
jeference was then put, and nega
tived—ayes 24, noes 30.
The hotife then went into a com
mittee of the whole on the petitions
of the Officers.
Mr. Dayton in the chair.
Mr. Clark withdrew his motion
for a rejection of the prayer of the
petitions, laid on the table jefter
day—Mr. Gerry then offered ano
ther proposition in lieu of the reso
lution he moved yesterday, which
is to the following purport —
That provision ought to be made
for the petitioners to the amount of
the ditference between the value in
the market,of funded and unfunded
debt ; an amendment >yas moved
by Mr. Clark to incorporate in the
proposition these words—all such ci
tizens who have received liquidated cer
tificates /or J'erviccs performed and
fuf plies furnifhed on account of the
United States— ] his amendment was
agreed to—the comnmtee then role,
and had leave to (it again—and the
rioule adjourned.
Foreign Affairs.
PARIS, November 2.
M PET lON has just publifted an able let.
. ter to the Society of Jacobin!, in whirl,
among other paragraphs, the followin.
very remarkable. .
" I Caved the club at the time „f t i, e f
motts Tchiftn—Roberlpierre, who then ha!
the reputation of being a pati iot, did
however enjoy that kind of weight whirl,
confidence gives a man in thi conduct of J
litical affairs. I have seen Roberfpierne trcm.
ble, wanting to get away, and afraid tr>
himfelf in the Aflsmbly. Afl: him if eve I
trembled. I have laved Roberfpierre him
felf from deftruttion by flicking by him when
every body else had deserted him.
i I declare that I know not a faction can
ed Briflot's : that faction is a chimera am j
there is not a man lels fit to be at the head of
a party than Briflot. I declare that the Ja
cobin Club has done great service, that it ctn
still lender more important ones, and that I
will support it with all my might, but with,
out prejudice; that I will adopt its opinionj
when I think them good, and will combat
them when I think them bad."
Two deputies from Frankfort have ap pe *r
ed at the bar of the Convention, presenting i
petition from that city to be released from the
fine imposed upon them by M. de Cuftine.
Their memorial was referred to the Diploma
tic Committee.
M. de Cuftine had ordered the horses and
equipage of the Elector of Mentz, found b*
him ill that city, to be publicly fold, on the
xatlvinitarit.
The advanced guard of the centra! armv
now to be commanded hy M. ®ournonvil|p'
marched the 6th instant from. Mentz to rein
force M. de Cuftine. The main body follow
ed on the 7th and Bth.
Tl»e artillery found at Mon» confined 0 f
97brafi cannon, 19brafsmortar3 and i4how.
itzars; 107 iron cannon. There were alfb
3000 bombs, 300,000 bullets, and ijoci jnuf
quets. ,
The emigrants were all executed vefterday
in the Place de Carousel, excepting four ser
vants, who were not taken with arms in their
hands, and were therefore acquitted. Thev
all ihewed the utmost fortitude; some of
them declared they died with pleasure for
their King, yet these men declared on their
trials, that they never intended to bear arms
against the Republic. Their execution did
not occasion any commotion, as was dreaded
To-day we expert the report of the com
mittee on the Decree of Accusation against
Marat. The cause of France will not only
be avenged without, but some reparation of
the national honor is about to bemade within.
More blood may be ftied in Paris, but it will
be that of the murderers of the 2d and 3d of
September.
HAGUE, Ottober 23.
The Austrian Generals have had the pru
dence to take care of their troops, who were
never fuffered to be in want of any thing,
whilst the Pruflians experienced the utmost
want, both for themselves and their horses.
This appears to have been the principal cause
of thafccoolnefs which has taken place between
the commanders of the allied armies. !n
vain did the Pruflians implore assistance from
their allies ; the latter Fent a deaf ear to their
entreaties, and extricated themselves from
that mire in which the others perished. Of
80,000 men whom the King of Prufliafnrnidl
ed, not more than men will return to
that country. His cavalry are quite ruined.
This is an absolute fact, which may be relied
upon.
LEWES, November 5.
Apartments have been engaged in the Brighton
packcts for the conveyance of Ninety more Nuns
from France, and for wbofe arrival curiosity is
daily on the look out. They are not turned
adrift without any provision, In annuity of 25
pounds each being allowed them by the French.
CALAIS.
The ardour of Patriotism, for which Calais
has been so properly celebrated, continues with
improving zeal !—lf there ever was a commu
nity of men unanimous, it is in this populous
town. Paine, our deputy, in all his intereourfc;
with our municipality carries it ort in English.
Mr. paine's letter.
The following is the leftcr u.'hich M r . Paine, being
igvoravt of the French language, transmitted on
Saturday tajl y to the National Convention of
France.
" Citizen President, I have the happiness < 6
transmitting to Ihe National Convention, the
testimonies of gratitute of the department of
Am du Calais, for the dectec which abolilhes
Royalty in France.
" In the midlt of the fatisf?.ftion, which
the regeneration of France inspires, they cannot
withhold from lamenting the folly of their an
cestors, which made it neceflary for them seri
ously to combat a phantom.
(Signed,) THOMAS PAINE."
L ONDON, November 5.
General Anfelm's sister commands a body o
1500 men. The gallantry of the army itife*
her an imperfonification of Liberty.
Church Lands in France.—Disney Fitch, &
Lincolnshire gentleman, has laid out upwards
of 100,0001. and Sir John Gallini has stepped
into a purchase of 30,000!.
The Pariiians are about to give a grand
triumphal Fete, upon account of the evacua
tion of the French Territories by the com
bined armies. All the Sections are to be ad
visers in the hufinefs.
The accounts received from Sierra-Lcone
by the Duke of Savoy, Capt. Hoffmdn, are of
a very favorable nature.prince Efl?rhazy has resigned the command
of the Austrian army in Briigaw tp Prince
Cobourg, being appointed a Minister of State
at ttie Cuui t of Vienna.
Duel.—A duel was fought yesterday, in the
neighbourhood of London, which has been ex
pected for some days, and which it was almost
publicly known, on Wednesday; would take
place on the eniuing Morning#
The parties were JVL Charles Lametfl and
a friend of the ci-devant Duke de Brie ; the
latter of whom was attended by the Duke de
P.enne. From the inveteracy of their quar
rel it was feared that neither could leave the
field alive; and as they fought with fw'ords,
this miserable probability was much mcreafed.
The event, however 1 , was, th.tt 11. Charles
Laineth fell by a wound through the body,
which, it is hoped, will not be mortal.
M. Laraeth, a member of the late Confti
tueut Alfembly of France, once fought the
Duke de Brie ; and this duel is supposed to
have been occafioued by the fame difpnte.
Nov. 17. The inhabitants of Madras, in a
full meeting, have voted an address of con
gratulation to Marquis Cornwallis, upon the
success of his arms; and have directed that a
committee ihall request of the Royal Academy
of Great-Britain, to point out an artilt by
•whom the statue purpo/ed to be erected in ho
nor of that nobleman, shall be executed. An
address is also to be presented to General
Meadows, whose portrait will be placed in
their town* hall.
The- port of Nice, when taken by the
French,contained joogalley slaves. Ofthefe
the deserters and Cmugglers were liberated.
The .King will pay some of the debts of the
' Prince of Wales out of his own purse. The
Prince intends to relinquish his eUabli!hment
atCarleton House till his debts are difcliarged.
The latest French papers thus describe the
fitnation of the late Royal Family ■ —Madame
Elizabeth, Marie Antoniette and her daughter
have taken poffefiion of their new apartment
on the third story of the Great Tower. This
apartment is compofcd ol four rooms, hand
foinely lilted up,two of them with fire-places.
The son of Louis Caput sleeps in the chamber
of hii father. On "a clock in the chamber of
Louis was inferibed, '' Le Pautre, Clock
maker to the King," the word King is defac
ed, and Republic put in its stead. All the
family come down at guard-mounting, and
walk in the garden.
Tippoo Sukap has made good all
his engagements, and every profpeft
remained of a permanent tranquili
ty in India.
The Jacobin Society at Chartres
has declai'ed its feperation from
that at Paris, until the latter (hall
have expunged from their books the
names of Marat, Robertfpierre, and
Danton.
Roberifpierre has been received
*vith great eclat by the Jacobins,
iince his acquittal in the National
Convention.
A gentleman in this city has fa
vored us with the followir.g article
of intelligence, which he received
by the last post from very high au
thority, the truth of which may be
relied upon :
" Dumourier, in the late a&ion
near Mons, had 80,000 men. The
Auftrians had only 18,000. The
French loft more than 10,000 in the
atftion, and the Auftrians retreated
in great order and regularity. The
last advices from the Rhine (late,
that Cuftine's army was on the point
of being intercepted and cut off,
from having advanced with so much
rapidity in the German territories."
Duchess of Biron.—This accom
plished and charming woman, who
inherited from various relatives the
largest property in France, and
whose escape was almost miraculous
from a furious banditti who menac
ed her life, is again returned to her
native country. The various inci
dents of her life would make an in
teresting volume. If (he be asked
why she returns, in defiance of the
various perils (be mult unavoidably
encounter, we are sorry ro relate,
that (he was entirely destitute in
this country both of money and
clothes ; (he now flies to her aged
mother for comfort and fuflenance.
She has lived in separation from
the General, her hulband, without
the imputation of a fault, from the
firft month of their marriage.
The controversy between the al
lied powets & the people of France,
is (till the leading topic of political
disquisition. The events which
have occurred in the course of the
contest, awaken the curiosity, com
mand the attention, and suspend
the judgment of the public. The
excelles committed by one party
have checked the admiration of
their warmest supporters ; princi
ples avowed by the other must rouse
the resentment of their firmed ad
herents. Though the treachery of
their court, the perfidy of their
minifteis, and the threats of their
enemies, may palliate the enormi
ties of our Gallic neighbours, yet
indiscriminate vengeance cannot be
juftified by partial inifcondudt, nor
the freedom.of a nation founded on
the cruelty ofiudividuals. Nor can
the desire of reitoriug a throne to
its pristine grandeur and a nobility
to their ancient privileges, excuse
an attack upon an independent
(late, and the fubverlion of a con
stitution received by a whole peo
ple. It must be our present lot to
deplore the ravages of boundless li
centiousness and relentless despot
ism. Our opinions must be formed
upon the accidents of the fleeting
hour ; and the slightest circumstan
ces may overturn the thepries which
delighted our imaginations.
The French Republic, like that
of the Romans, seems desirous of
extending its influence and autho
rity over the world, by adopting
itates and principalities into the no
ble condition of friends and allies
to theircommonwealih. Theyfeem
also to imitate the Romans in wifli
ing to retain the supreme power in
those cities to whom they impart
that privilege. Differences, dis
putes and recriminations take place
among the French Generals; but
that is no more than might be ex
perted in a nascent State, especially
in a nascent republic ; but above
all, in a wafcent French republic.
At Naples, the people aflembled,
on the 30th September, under the
windows of the King's palace, and
required that the price of bread
should be lowered. The Council
have accordingly exempted corn
from the duties formerly paid upon
it to the King upon information.
There is a difference between the
French and American Revolution.
In America no barbarities were per
petrated— no mens' heads were ft uck
upon poles—no ladies bodies man
gled, were carried thro' the streets
in triumph—their prisoners guard
ed and ironed, were not maflacred
it) cold blood. The Americans did
not, at difcretioh, harrafs, murder,
or plunder the Clergy—nor roast
their Generals, unjustly, alive.—
They set limits to their vices, at
which their pursuits rested. Antl
whatever blood was (hed, flowed
gallantly in the field. The Ameri
can Revolution, it ought to be re
peated, was not accoihplilhed as the
French has been, by maflacres, aflaf
linations, or proscriptions ; battles,
severe and honorable, were fought,
and the chance of war left to de-.
cide.
Eltimate of the present value of
the several Manufactures of Great-
Britain :
The Woollen
Leather
Flax
Hemp
Glass
Paper
Porcelain
Silk
Cotton
Lead
Tin
Iron
Steel & Plating
Total £. 5i,410,090
ExtraQ of a Utter from Stockholm,
Oflobcr 12.
" The Duke Regent continues
daily, by a thou fund good orders,
institutions and regulations, to gain
the love of the nation, and evince
his desire to rellore bis native coun
try to her former prosperity. He
Teems, in many instances, to follow
principles diametrically oppoiite to
those of the late King."
Philadelphia, Jan. 16.
The Legislature of New-Hamp-
Ihire have subscribed for the State,
twenty-five lhares in the Bank of
that State.
By the debates in the National
Convention of France, it' appears
that Roberfpierre and Marat, two
members of that Aflembly, are de
nounced as the principal authars of
the maflacres in Paris of September
last.
M. St. Just, in his speech on the
trial of Louis XVI. tnad.e in the
-263-
National Convention, fays—" Louis
XVI. oDgUc to be tried, not only for.
alf the crimes which he has com
mitted—not only for having been
dete<Sed in a flagrant a<ft with his
hands inblood—but for this alone,
that he was King."
S. Livingflon, in an address
to the individual elecTtors of New-
York, fays—
" If the services 1 have rendered
the mechanics, by effecting their
incorporation—lf, as their repre-
Tentative, I have filled with reputa
tion the (tation in which they placed
me—lf the services I have rendered
my country are equal to thole of my
competitor—lf, When weighed in
the scale of science, I should at least
be found equal to him—and if a firm
and steady attachment to their in
terest entitle me to a preference in
their esteem, I alk it with confidence,
and will remember it with grati
tude."
The Mechanic Society, in their
remarks on the above, observe—
" The Mechanic Society have ne
ver been the supporters of William
S. Livingfton, on any occasion ; be
cause, they always thought hini an
improper person to merit their fuf
frages : the Mechanic Society know
not of William S. Livingfton's being
the instrument of obtaining their
incorporation : The Mechanic So
ciety don't know William S. Living
fton, as their representative ; nei
ther have they ever been the agents
in placing him in his present situa
tion, or any other.."
Seven of the Wabafh Indians, lately arrived
in this city, have died of the Small Pox : two
of them took it the natural way,the other five
had been innoculated.
Extract of a Utter jrom Kentuckey, Dec. 11.
" The honorable John Brown was this day
nnanimoufly elected by the legislature of- this
ftatc, to the office of Senator for fix years
from the 4th day of March next."
Col. John Skey Eustace, formerly of Geor
gia, is promoted to the rank of Marechal de
Camp by brevet in the French army.
The Anguilla fix weeks cotton feed, after
it is planted one year in this country, is found
to he the proper feed for Georgia ; it produc
es the most cottdn, does not grow too rank,
does not require topping, need not be planted
before the middle of April, and begins to open
in Augufl: ; the crop will be off the ground iu
all November.
Extratt of a letter from AuguJ!a y Dec. 5.
{< Several parties of Cherokees have made
their appearance in Franklin county, and
have killed and scalped eight persons within
these ten days past. This seems to be brought
on us more by the restless and imprudent spi
rit of some of our own people, than by any
hostile difpofitibn in the Indians, andcould the
guilty pei-font be feledled by the savages, we
should have little cause, and I hope little dis
position, to seek retaliation ; but, as is gene
rally the cafe, the innocent have fallen a fa
crifice to savage vengeance—-a poor defence
lefs widow has been of the number already
butchered, and children unable to fly have
fallen with her."
£.t6,800,000
10,500,000
1,750,000
890,000
630,000
780,000
1,000,000
3,350,000
960,000
1,650,000
1,000,000
8,700,000
3,400,000
Amidst those general oonviilfions which? the
revolution in France has produced, and which
Teems to threaten the total extin<stion of sci
ence and philosophy, as an evidence that dis
cernment enough still exists among individu
al to diftinguilh works of confumraatp geni
us and imitiorral merit, the following adver
tisement has appeared.
" Defenfe des Constitutions Americains;
ou de la neceflite d'une balance dans les pou
voirs d'un Gouvernement libre, par M. John
Ada-ms, ci-devant Miniftere Plenipotentiaire
des Etats Unis, pi es la Cour de Londres, et
a&uellement Vice-President des Etats Unis,
et President du Senat, avec des Notes et Ob
servations par M. de la Croix, Profefleur de
Droit Public au Licee. 2 vol. in o6t deplus
de 500 Pages.
A Paris, chez Buiflon Libraire, rue llaut
Feuille, No. 21."
M. de la Croix, the Annotator, is probably
the fame gentleman who is now a member of
the Convention, and one of the committee for
forming a Canftitution ; if so, we may ex
pert his influence at teaft in favor of a ba
lance of powers, which in this country is
deemed indilpenfable in every well organized
government. Mail.
Since the eftabli foment of tlie
new republic, public affairs were
never in so critical a state; and if
we may credit fomeof the members
of the Convention itfelf, another
maflacre is near at hand. More
Marfeillois are about to arrive here
—800 are expetfed this day ; two
thousand banditti from the boufhes
du Rhone are likewise marching hi
ther.
The two factions headed by Brif
fot on the one hand, and Robert
fpierre and Marat on the other, are
trying who fliall be vitfors; they
From the Courier de I'Univeri.
Paris, October 18.
are both'republicans ; but they cbh
tend which of the two shall have the
greatett {hare of the loaves & fifties.
Robertfpierre's party, ■Irs'ring the
cut throats and the majority of the
mob to their fide, will probably tri
umph. It is talked of that ic is ne
ceflary to cut off the heads "of 7 or
8000 more before gpod order and
government can be rcftored. \ou
may depend that things cannot re
main many days in their prefeut
state.
A correspondent infonns us, that
the paragraph copied into the Na
tional Gazette and the American
Daily Advertiser, from the Harril
burgh paper, refpetfliug the excise,
and which aliens that the idea of
fnch a law is reprobated froin £ast
to Weft on this extended continent,
is the production of a person who,
after landing from a vell'el from
Ireland, followed his nose from
hence to Harrifburgh, without turn
ing to the right or left, and proba
bly was never out of this state.—
Indeed, the firft sentence is so pal
pable a falfhood, that no one who
knew any thing of this country, and
Jiad any regard to his reputation,
would have made the declaration—
but, fays our correspondent, to luch
competent judges of the (it nation of
our country, and the disposition of
the people, is the public indebted
for the principal part of those abu
sive attacks with which the govern
ment of the United States, and its
administration, have been honored
for more than a year past.
One cannot help admiring at the
splenetic and humorfomedilpofitioit
of certain writers, who, pining at
the prosperity of our country, felt
enjoyed, and acknowledged by the
great body of the people as the hap
py consequence of a system of inea
fures emanating from the new go
vernment, rack their invention to
pervert the general fentimenr, that
they may transfer the attachment
of the people from the Conftirution
of the United States to a non-entity ;
for those who deny the benign in
fluences of the government in pro
ducing the unexampled prosperity
of our country, have never pointed
out any superior agent as the effi
cient cause.
Since the new Governmetl't came into play,
What gall and en vy from our scribblers flow J
" Rogues in every public station,
" Conspire to rob this fated nation,
" Nay, all our patriots are to traitors turn'd;
But what is still more strange,
Is the prepoftarom change— -
Of those who had no honesty before,
Who make 'boot public cheats a ceafeleft r«ar!
Thus till the fires of discord glow,
Old Anarch's forge, his underftrappcr* btmr.
ARRIVED*/ the PORT
Brig Industry, Florence, Cape Francois
Phebe, Williams,
Molly, Mercer,
Sch'r Industry, Lewis,
! ■
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cer.ti, »of
j per Cents,
Deferred, 12J6
Full {hares Bank U. S. 36 per cent.prern
Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 25th instant, a likely Ne
gro Man called Isaac, about twenty-three
years oid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made fellow, fond of talking, has a large
mouth, and shows his teeth very much when
talking ; had on when he went away, a brown
linen shirt, a (hort white kersey over jacket with
a very high collar and plain bread, with buttons
which appear to have been very gay ; a pair of
white kersey breeches, a pair of white knit yarn
(lockings, a pair of (hoes with firings in them,
and a coarse hat ; all the above clothes are al
most new. Said Negro was fprmeily the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas, late of Kent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, dc
ceafed, and has for several years been employed
in that neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by MelTrs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, whicn bufmefs he is
well acquainted with, and is what he prefers;
and has been engaged in driving a waggon from
said Cross-Roads to Duck-Creek, See. until
August last. I expect h" will make his way for
the neighbourhoods of George-Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will be paid if delivered to me in thni
place, or Thirty Dollars if secured in any goil,
so that I get him again. He is an a»tful fellow,
and when taken, will make his escape, unlef*
parti.ularly secured
E ASTON,
OWEN KENNARD.
TaiiotCounty, Uar)/anJ, Dr.. 28, 179 a. W»
Geor^inU
Madeira
Aux Caycft07
ec^~
■
From a lati London Paper.
REMEDY FOR BRUISES.
A COACHMAN, in a street in
London, was, by a fuddenjolt,
thrown off his box, and in his tall
his foot fell inio a hollow in the
pavement,which occasioned a sprain,
attended with violent pain, and a
considerable inflammation. A bro
ther whip promised hiin a speedy
cure. He ordered a gallon of por
ter to be simmered in an earthen
reflel, till, when cooled, it became
of the confidence of a plaster. He
spread this plaster on a thin old
glove, and applied it round the an
kle. In three days he mounted his
box, being relieved of the swelling
and pain.
Another perfon,being surrounded
by pick-pockeis, in endeavoring to
save his money, fell down, & struck
one fide of his loins upon a stone
more prominent than the reft of the
pavement. Considerable pain and
swelling were the consequences ;
and next day his back, and the thigh
on that fide, became greatly disco
loured. Having seen thefuccefs of
the porter plaster in the former in
stance, I defiled that the porter
plaster might be applied to part of
the back and thigh, while the other
parts were treated according to art,
that so a comparative experiment
might be made of the effects of each.
The swelling subsided nearly equal
ly in both ; but the pain and the
blackness of flrin went off much soon
er in the parts covered with the
plaster than in the pther parts. Ac
cidents have since afforded me seve
ral instances of similar success at
tending the application oF this plas
ter. Might we not expect that fuc
cers might attend the application of
this plaster in other fixed pains in
various parts of the body ?
As these accidents happened in
London, where porter is the malt li
quor most generally used, the plas
ter was made of it; yet I doubt not
but that other fermented malt-li
quors, used in the fame manner,
might have similar effects.
Where such hurts are frequent,
this plaster may be long kept in.
good condition, jf it is covered with
a little oil to prevent the evapora.-
tion of the fluid particles. S. A.
BANK OF THE UNITED STJTES.
Resolved,
THAT the Cashier be authorised to receive
from the proprietor of any number of com
pleat Ihares, such Certificates, not in his own
name, as he may be the proprietor of; and after
cancelling the fame, to iflue a new Certificate or
Certificates in lieu thtreof, in the name of such
proprietor.
Resolved, That in all future transfers of
compleat (hares in the capital (lock of the Bank,
the Certificates of the .ihares transferred be can
celled, and a new Certificate or Certificates be
ifiued in the name of the transferee or purchafcr.
Resolved, That the Certificates in future
ifiued, be for one or more (hares, as the pro
prietor may request ; and the new Certificate or
Certificates shall be of correfpondpnt number*
with those in lieu of which they arc ifiued.
C P3 W
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful lunation on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of dire&ion towards the Federal
City and GeorgeTown,in full view of tach place,
commanding a profpi£t of the river and adjacent
country ol Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 5 o acres of Land, Iyln,r di
rectly on the river, will, be fold, with
provcmcnts, which are, a two-story framed
d welling-houfr, neatly finifhed, a kitchen, office,
brick fmoke-honfe 3nd dairv. two-ftorv framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and' an ice
houfc, a yard and garden, neatJv railed and
highly improved, with a number of other nf
ceffai y iirtprnvementt ; the whole of the land
inclofcd with ports and rails, tenor fifteen acrcs
laid down, wuh different kinds of grass Its
contiguity to those three towns must render it an
object worthy the attention of any person who
wishes to invcft money in a property that mud
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in.
irreafe of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
centra! foliation toeach place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep (horc arid harbour,
capable of receiving veflcls of any burden, il
may not'be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be erected here to the Citv of
Wafhing'on and the Maryland fhnres leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.— Also to fell, 21 r
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant
which will suit well to supply the above in
wood a"d timber. The title may be seen to ihe
above property, which is indifpwable, and terms
known by application to the fubfciiber, living
tin the premises.
Dcctmbcr 12//;, 1792.'
JOHN KE&K, Cashier.
BALDWIN DADF,
tj> 2Vt
Federal City.
THE Sublcriber will convey forever, by
good and fufficient deed, Thirty Lots in
the City of NVafhington, fitnated on South
Capitol Street, to any man or company of
men—provided they will agree toereft there
on good and fufficient brick houses, within
three years from the date hereof.
DANIEL CARROLL, ofDudJington.
City of Wajhington, Dec. 31, 1792. 6l
BANK OK THE UNITED STATES.
Phi lade lphia, January 7, J793.
NOTICE is hereby given, that there wili be
paid at the Bank, after.the 17th instant, to
the Stockhohleis or their Reprefentativei duiv
authorized, the following furns, being the Divi
dend declared for the lad fix months, vil.
For each share braring dividend from the ill
of July, Sixteen Dollars.
For each lhare bearing dividend from the ift
of Augufl, Fifteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
For each lhare bearing di'videiir' from the ift
of September, Fourteen Dollars. 67 Cents.
Forcach lhare bearing dividend from the ift
of Oflobcr, Fourteen Dollars.
For each share bearing Hiuirknd from the »ft
of November, Thirteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
For each (hare bearing dividend Irnm the ift
of Deceuiher, Twelve Dollars, 67 Cents.
For each three-quarter lhare, Twelve Dollars.
By order of the President and Direitors,
gw JOHN KKAN, Calhier.
TO BE SOLD,
That well-known Place, called
South-Point,
LYING an he end ol Sinipuxenf Neck, on
the Eastern Shore of Maryland, within two
miles of the Inlei, in Worceller County, in the
(aid State, being the firft landing for vcflils that
Itade in there. Froin the fituationof the place,
it is convenient for fiui, clams and oyileis, if
open to the lea, and has every convenicncy that
could be wilhed for. The foil is excellent lor
Indian corn, wheat 01 flax, is natural to clover,
and has a good marsh pasture for ftoek.
Any per lon desirous of purchasing, may know
the terms by applying to Asjheton Humphrey, Esq. (
in Philadelphia—Mr. Benjamin Purncll } \n Indian
Town, Worcester County—or to Capt. Littleton
Robins, near the place.
Jan. 2,
Philadelphia, January 9, 1793.
Mathew Carey
Refpc&fully informs the Citizens of the United
States, that the Maps for his intended
editionof
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving—anfl as soon as a fufficient
number of ihem are finilhed, to Iccure a re-
gular fupplv during the publication, which
will probably be early next Spring, the work
will be put to prcfs.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
rcfpe&able number of Subscribers, who have
come forward thus early to patronize this ardu
ous undertaking. He assures them and the pub
lie in general, that no pains or expenle (ball b(
spared in the execution of the work.
Terms of the Work :
I. IT fnall be publilhed in 48 weekly numbers,
each containing thiee (beets, or twenty-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with
new types on fine papet.
11. In the course of the work will be deliver
ed about thirty large maps, of the fame size as
thofein the European editions, viz. mod of them
sheet maps on post paper.
(JdT Besides the maps in the Britijh editions, this
work will contain nine or ten American State Maps.
HI. The price of each number will be a(
quarter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
(£3" No advance required.
IV. Subscribers who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three fir ft numbets, ate
to be at liberty to return them, and (hall have
their money repaid.
V. Th* fubferibers' names shall be prefixed
as patrons of the undertaking.
*** Subscriptions received in Philadelphia bv
the intended publisher; in New-York, by all
the boojcfellers; in New-Haven, by Mt. Beers;
in Hartford, by Mr. Patten; in Bofton,by Me(T.
Thomas & Andrews, and by Mr. Weft ; in Bal
timore, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond, by Mr.
J. Carey; in Charleston, by Mr. W. P. Young,
and by sundry other persons throughout the
United States. (lawtf)
Seon will be publijhed,
the SYSTEM or
Used by Mt.Llo yd, in taking down ihc Debate!
of Congress. A system io easy, that any
of ordinary capacity, may clearly comprehend
it in half an hour, and soon prattife it, in its
fulleft extent, without any further in(lru£lion,
than what will be conveyed in a few pages,—
the whole ART 1 being comprised in eighteen
Jim pie char after s, without any of those perplexing,
arbitrary marks, with which the learners of
other lyftems are oWiged to burden their me
mory, 3nd embarrass their practice.
Price, to Subscribers, One J)ollar—to Non-
Subscribers, a Dollar andhalj.
Subfciiptions received by MeiTrs. Rice, Book-,
fellers, Market-street ? and by
JOHN CAREY, No. og, Pear-Street.
Half a Dollar to be paid at the time offubjeribing.
PLANS
OF THI
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DORSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & CRI'KSHAKK.
(P3 The price of this Gazette h three Dollars
fcritin™ C
264
To the Publ*c.
THE Subscribers having been appointed a
committee of the Board of the Iruftees of
the Uiiiverfiiy of North-Carolina, for the pur
pose of receiving proposals from iuch gentlemen
as may intend to undertake the inllru£lion of
youth in that inilituuon, take the opportunity
of making known to the public their wtfti thai
such gentlemen should fignify their inclination
to the (übferibers.
The objects to which it is contemplated by
the Board to turn the attention of the students,
on the fit 11 eftablilhmtnt, are—The itudy of
Languages, particularly the l£nglilh—Hiilory,
ancient and modern—the BcUe-iettres —Logic
and Moral philosophy—the knowledge of the
Mathematics and Natural Philosophy—Agricul
ture and liotany, with the principles of Archi
tecture.
Gentlemen convtrfant in these branches of
Science and Literature, ar.d who can be well re
commended, will receive very handsome encou
ragement by ihe Boat d. The exercises of the
institution will commence as early as poflible
after the completion of the buildings of the Uni- •
verfity, which are to be contra&ed (or immedi
ately. SAMUEL ASHE,
A. MOORE,
JOH\ HAYE,
DAVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLES.
D%s cp.2m
ADVERTISEMENT.
Between "] December \JI, 1792.
William Shipley lld the high Court ofCnance
Complainant , V- ry of the State of Ncw-
John Meng and o- 1 Jcrfey.
thers Defendants. J Prejent,
His Excellency the Chancellor.
THE Complainant having filed his bill of
Complaint against the Defendants '.n the
month of September, seventeen hundred and
ninety-one, and in the laid Bill of Complaint did
among other things set forth that the said Com
plairtaht being seized in his Demffne as of fee
of and in a certairf Trait of Land, said to contain
nine hundred and thirty acres, fiiuate, lying and
being m the township of Hardwick in the coun
ty of SufiVx in the State of New-Jersey, did on
the firft of March seventeen hund • ed and eighty
five, bargain fell and convey the fame in fee litu
ple unto John Meng and John Hendcrfon of the
city of Philadelphia, William Goodwin and
John Town, for the consideration of One Thou
sand Six Hundred Pounds in Gold or Silver—
That on the fifth day of the fame month of
March the said feoffees above named did execute
unto the said William Shipley a Deed of Moil
gage in fee Ample of the said Tra& of Land to
secure the payment <if the said sixteen hundred
pounds, with the lawful interest which might
thcieon accrue—That in the year seventeen hun
dred and eighty-fix the laid John Meng and
William Goodwin did become Bankrupts with
in the intent and meaning of the a&s of the Le
gislature of the Commonwealth of Pcnnfylvania',
and such proceedings were had against them that
in the fume month they were duly declared
Bankrupts ; and that they the said John Meng
and Willkun Goodwit» did in some short time
afterwards convey and transfer all their estate
both real and personal, and particularly all their
right and title to the premises above mentioned
to John Field, Curtis Clay, James C. Fisher,
Isaac Wharton, John Kaighn and Arthur Collins
all of the city of Philadelphia, fubjeft to the
Mortgage so as aforefaid given to the said Com
plainant.—That the said John Field, Curtis
Clay, James C. Fisher, itaac Wharton» John
Kaighn and Arthur Collins soon after bargained,
fold and conveyed all their Right and Title of
and in the said Tratt of Land unto Benjamin
Town of the city of Philadelphia, and John
Town, fubjett to the Mortgage aforefaid—That
on the eighteenth day of October seventeen hun
dred and eighty-five, the said John Town and
Benjamin Town did execute another Mortgage
to the said William Shipley for securing the pay
ment of twelve hundred pounds in certain in
itallments—That in the month cf January (even
teen hundred and eighty-fix, John Town did
bargain and fell in fee simple all his Right and
Title to the (aid premises, to the said Benjamin
Town, fubjeft to the Mortgages aforefaid—That
in tH<! month of February seventeen hundred and
eighty-eight, the said Benjamin Town did con
vey all his Right and Title to the said premife®,
to John Field and Curtis Clay of the city of Phi
delphia, upon certain Trusts unknown to theal
Complainant—That said IT njamin Town the
soon after became Bankrupt, and in pursuance
of the bankrupt laws of the State of Pchnlvlva
nia, did convey all his estate real and personal
to a certain Robert Rallloii—That John Hen
derfon did alfoin the month of September seven
teen hundred and eighty-seven bccome'a Bank
rupt, and under the bankrupt laws of the State
of Pcnnfylvania, did aflign and convey ail his
estate real and personal to David Lenox, George
Hughes, Matthew Clarkfon, Peter Baynton and
Richard Bache—And the Complainant dpth in
and by his said Bill, pray that those having
Right to the said Estate may be decreed to pay
him what is due on the laid Mortgages, Or that
the equity of Redemption be forclofed by the
Decree of this Court.
And now upon opening this matter this day
by Klchard Stockton, Esquire, being ofthe com
plainants counfcl—it appearing to the Court
that the said defendants do reside in the State
of Pennsylvania, without the jurtfdiftion of this
Court; and it appearing further to this Court
that writs of lubpoena have been taken out ac.
cording to the course of this Court, that the said
writs ot fubpetna have beeu duly served up»n
the said fcveial Defendants upwards of one
vear from this day ; and that none of the said
Defendants have caused his or their appearance
to be entered in this Court to the suit of the said
Complainant : It is therefore ordered by his
Excellency the Chancellor, that the said De
fendants co cause their appearance to be entered
to the suit of the above Complainant according
to the rules of this Court in two months from
this dav, or thai ihc Plaintiffs bill he taken pro
confelto agreeably to the directions of the ast of
the Legiflaiure in such cafe made and provided
—The Complainant giving nonce and making
publication of this rule as in and by the said ast
ot ihe Lcgiflrttiirc is provided,.
WILLIAM PATERSON, Chancellor.
Dcccmhr ,Ji, 17g2 .
200 Dollars Reward*
LOST, »t Providence, „r between Provide,,~
and Boston, 1 very Imall TRUNK, cove,,,,
with feal-fkiu of a reddish colour, w , t(l w ,
spot. It contained a quantity of Souih
North-Carolina State Notes, and a few „f |K
S.ate of Rhode-Inland ; with o,her
can only be serviceable 10 the proprietor "t- '
State notes are cheeked at the offices from when "
they issued. Any person producin K ,h r T urtlc
(with its contents) to JOHN M ARSTOY (
Bo Aon, WILLIAM HALL, of Piovirfe "
Messrs PATERSOM and BRASHIR v" '
York, cr Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in
phia, shall receive the above reward, o, t0,.,,"
pan of ibe property, One Huudred Dollar, '
Boston, Nov. ;>B, j-
run-away
r ROW THE SUBSCRIBER, THI Hi J, .
A NEGRO BOY, named Zy ; n.mandVaU,
J. A. lixteen years old; came to Samuel Lipir,-
cot's at Boidcntown oil the 13'h, (aid hi a name
was Henry, and left that place the 27th M JV _
On the *7lh flay of June, he was taken up'i a
Bucks County, and carried; before a Majriftraii.
said he was tree, and that he lived on the Suf'
quehannah—thai a person by the name of /Ihu
ham Frail, look him three drys jnurnrv (Vorj
lioine, and turrit<f him adrift unh one dollar-
He asked the Justice lor a pa-f» 10 p, 10 his fa
ther, and nothing appeared to the contrary —
He lived with one Thomas Paxwell tilhhe lpilt
of ibis instant, 2nd rhen made tiis escape f r „ m
him; he called liis name Peter Jchnflon—hsd
on ait old Grey Coating Round Jacket, lined
with red baize ; Miold'pair Leather Br'eeches
and an old Felt Hat. Whoever takes up fail!
Boy,and brings him to Jacob 01.
Staten-Iflarid, (hall receive TWENTY DOL*
LARS, with reasonable charges, paid by
JACOtf MERSEREAU, Lieut.Oil
»«■ g( » «.«.
EOWEN's EXHIBITIONS OF
W ax- W ork&Paintmgs,
/V RE open every clay and evening (Sundaw
I X. excepted) at the House lately occupied
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eight h-ftreetv
Fiast Room—Contains upwards of 130
elegant Paintings, and about' 30 Wax Figures,
11l full stature—among which are Likeneflej
of a Dumber of tile principal characters ii>
America; Baron Trenck in chains, an Indian
Chief, andifeveral beautrfu! young ladies us
di&rtnt States,- etc. icc.
Second Roqm—Contains eighteen large
Wax Figures, which form a Sociable Clv-b,
or the Oyster Supper; and tine School for
Scandal, confiding of twelve feinalfe Figure;;,
making their observations on a Young Lad v ,
who had eloped with a Footmen.
Admittance One Quarter of a Dollar each
Room.
N,E W T E A S.
IMPERIAL,HYSON &SOUCHONG
:Of the very firft quality, and latest importation
from Canton, ria New-Yelk, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chtfnui and ltd»rt'et Jiieeu.
N. B. Ajiw 80-tel of the abate HYSON/cr/i^.
Stock Brokers Office,
No.'4si Great Dock-street, New-York,
The Subscribes intending to confine himfejf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begsleave to offer
his services to hi*friend* and others, in thelint
ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa*
vor him with their business, may depend upon
having it tranfa&ed with the irtmoft fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia,Bofton,or any othef
part of the United' States will be ftri£ll y attend*
| («.g
LEONARD BLEECKF.R.
To the Public.
THE fubferibe begs leave to acquaint the pub*
lie in general, and h\s cuftomeis in particu
lar, tbat he has entered into partnership with
Mr. HENRY KAMMERER, and that the Print
ing bufinels in the English and German languages
is now carried on under the firm of STEINER
and KAMMERER, No. 85, in Race-ftrect, be
tween Second and Third-ltreeis.
The German Newspaper will be publiftled by
them, as usual, on Tuesdays, and all kind of Prim
ing work done with care and exoeduion.
MELCHIOR STEINER.
Philadelphia, A'av. & t 179 a, .
John Gould,
HAIR-DRESSER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in gene?-
ral, that he continues to carry on his business
as usual, at No. 1, Sbuth Third-Street, near
Market-Street, and thanks his formercuftomers
for the favors he has received.
Said Gould has for Tale, an infallible cure for
Weak or Sor« Eyes, which on trials has and will
Ue found to answer the purpose.—He has it in
viah from one quarter of a dollar to a dollar.—
Any per fop trying the above, if not found to
answer. the character given, the money will be
[ returned. [tf]
ADVERTISEMENT.
f£3TThu Gazette is publijhed in North Fifth-Street f
No. 34, between High and Mulberry Streets —where
the Editor now resides.
A LARGE CELLAR TO LET\
Sujfuiently capacious to JloreJtveral hundrtd If artels
Enquire ai above.