A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN F£NNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 62 of Vol. IV.]
Foreign Affairs.
' FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
LETTER
From Thomas Paine to thi People
of France,
" Paris, Sept. 2J, 1792.
" First year of the KepUblic.
" FELLOW CITIZENS !
I RECEIVE will) affectionate gra
titude the honor which the late
national aflembly has conferred up
on me, by adopting ine a citizen of
France ; and the additional honor
of being elected by my fellow-citi
zens a member of the national con
tention. Happily imprefied as 1 am,
by those testimonies of respect fliewn
towards me as an individual, I ieel
iny felicity increased by feeing the
Kr(iV(*c rr'
patrioiifm by spots of earth, and li
mited ciiizenfhip to the foil, like
vegetation.
" Had those honors been confer
red in an hour of national tranqui
lity, they would have afforded no
other means of {hewing mv affecti
on, than to have accepted and en
joyed them ; but they come accom
panied with cii ctimflances that give
me the honorable opportunity of
commencing my citizenship in the
itormy hour of difficulties. 1 come
not to enjoy repose. Convinced
that the caofe o£ France is the eaufe
of all mankind, and that as liberty
cannot be purchased by a wish, I
gladly lhare with you' the dangers
and honors neceflary to success.
" I am well aware, that the mo
ment of any great change, such as
■T-at acc,jr:*.;-!i flicd on lT.c i-o-h of"
August, u unavoidably the'noinent
of terror and cunfufion. The mind
highly agitated by hope, suspicion
and apprebenfion, continues with
out relt till the change be accom
plilhed. But let us now look calm
ly and confidentially forward, and
success is certain. It is no longer
the paltry cause of kings,-or of this,
or of that individual, that calls
France and her armies into a<ffion.
It is the cause of all. It is the esta
blishment of a new era, that shall
blot despotism from the earth, and
fix, on the lasting principles of peace
and citizcnfhip, the gre?t republic
of man.
" It has been my fate to have
borne a /herein the commencement
and complete eflablifliment of one
revolution, (I mean the revolution
of America). Tlie success and e
vents of that revolution are encou
raging to us. The prolperity and
h;ippinefs that have since flowed to
that country, have amply rewarded
her for all the hardlhips (he endur
ed, and for all the dangeis flic en
countered.
" The principles on which that
revolution began, have extended
ihemiejves to Europe ; and an over
ruling Providence is regenerating
the old woi M by (he principles of
the new. The difiance of America
i roil) all the other parts of the globe,
did not admit of her carrying of
those principles beyond her own li
tnation. It is to the peculiar honor
of France, that (lie now railes the
standard of liberty for all nations ;
»i d in fighting her own battles, con
tends for the rights of :• ] 1 mankind.
" 1 lie fame spirit of foititude
infilled I'uccel's to America,will
inftii e it to t ranee j for it is impof
fiblc to conquer a nation determi ned
to be fieej The military circum
ttanoes that now unite them(elves
• o 11 ante, ate (uch as the despots
of thu earth know nothing of, and
can form no calculation upon. The)'
know not what it is to fight against
a nanon. i hey have only been ac
cuituuu'd to make war upon each
January 2, 1795.
other ; and rhey know from fyftetn
and practice, how to calculate the
probable success of despot agaiiift
despot ; and here their knowledge
and their experience end.
" But in a contell like the pre
sent, a new and boundless variety ot
circumstances arise, that derange all
such culiomary calculations. When
a whole nlktion ails as an army, the
despot knows not the extent of the
power against which he contends.
New armies rife againit him with
tlie neceflity of the moment. It is
then that the difficulties of an inva
ding enemy mulriply, as in the for
mer cafe they diminiflied ; and he
finds them at their heighth when he
expected them to end.
" The only war that has any fi
inilarity of circumstances with the
present, is the late revolution-war
is in France, it was a war of the
whole nation. There it was that
the enemy, by beginning to con
quer, put himfclfin a condition of
being conquered. His firft victories
prepared him for defeat. He ad
vanced (ill he could not retreat,and
found himfelf in the midst of a na
tion of armies.
" Were it now to be' proposed to
the Aullrians and Prulliails to escort
them iuto the middle of France,and
there them te'make the inoft
of such actuation, they would fee
too much into the dangers of it to
accept the offer ; and the fame dan
gers would attend them, could they
arrive there by any other means.
Where then is the military policy
of their attempting 10 obtaiir, by
fort'*;, that which they would refufe
by choice; But to reason with oci
pots,is throwing reafoii away. The
best of arguments is a vigorous pre
paration.
" Man is ever a stranger to the
ways by which Providence regulates
the order of things. The interfe
rence of foreign despots may serve
to introduce into their own enilaved
countries the principles they come
to oppose. Liberty and equality are
bleflings too great to be che inhe
ritance of France alone. It is* ho
nour to her tobe rhef.r!t chanijUon ;
and (Tie may now fay to her enemies,
with a mighty voice, " O ! 'ye A uf
trians ! ye Prulfians ! ye who now
turn your bayonets againlt us ; it is
for you j it is for all Eutope; it is
for all mankind, and not for France
alone, that flie raises the Itandard
of liberty and equality !"
" The public caule has hitherto
fufFered from the contradictions
contained in the conflitution of the
former condiment aflembly. Those
contradictions have served to divide
the opinionsof individuals at home,
and to obfeure the great principles
ot the revolution in other countries.
But when those contradictions fliall
be removed, and the conflitution be
niadeconformable to the declaration
of rights; when the bagatelles of
monarchy, royalty, regency and he
reditary fucceflion, lhall be exposed,
with all their absurdities, a new ray
of light will be thrown over the
world, and the revolution will de
live new strength by being univer
sally underflood.
" The scene that now opens it
felf to France, extends far beyond
th« boundaries of her own domini
ons. Every nation is becoming her
colleague, and every court is become
her enemy It is now the cause of
all nations against the cause ot all
courts. The terrors that despotism
felt, clandeflinely begot a confede
ration of despots ; and their at
tack upon France fe produced by
their fea:s at home.
" In entering on this great scene,
greater than any nation lias yet
beeu called to a<s in, let us fay to
245
tin jcvtarcvf nind, be calm. Let
us puuifh by iuftructing, rather than
by revenge. Let us begin the new
sraby a greatness of friendfhip,and
hail the approach of union and suc
cess. Your Fellow-Citizen,
" THOMAS PAINE."
(LA CROIX, PRESIDENT.)
Letter from General Montefquiou.
' I AM hitherto informed, by the public
prints of rne decree which pronounces
my difjliflian ; I have officially received that
Mfhich suspends its effert.
I refpeft, as I ought, the decrees of the peo
ple's repreientyfives. Thsy ought to rcjeft
the Cervices of'thofe who were suspected, the
moment they put fufficient confidence in my
accusers, to regard their assertions is pi oofs.
If truthcouid lmeiven heaid, the national
Convention fhoiild haye known that all which
was told tliem was a collection of impofit'.ons ;
they ihould have known that I had never pe-'
tioned nor adhered to any petition ; that the
statement presented by me tu the legislative
aliombfy, cf the Kii sos Sardinia's forces, is
perfectly exact ; that it is the executive coun
cil which had forbid the attack of Savoy; and
that it was my prefllng feprcfentntion, the re
peated communication of my plan, and my
proinife of success, which determined the exe
cutive council to give me the liberty to ast ;
it fhonld have known that the fables repeated
by fevcral journalifh,on the infalubritv of the
ca. Ps I had chosen, were so many li.*s } it
flujlrf have known, in fliort, that the most
honor; blc confidence of my army, is a re
ward ior all my trouble.
I have the happiness to do a service to my
country and to mankind, in introducing the
ft uidard of liberty among a good people, who
appeal- to me worthy ot this great benefit.
No facrifiee has poisoned this happiness. The
satellites of despotism have every where fled
before an army of citizens.
Sav: y is as much French as the eighty three
dep o , tnients, and its attachment to the nati
on has already reflected honor 011 the general
who firft planted the tree of liberty on a
foreign Bastille.
My race is run, and I can no longer hope to
oe ultrful.
A general who has been once beset by sus
picion, on whom the national convention lias
once imprinted the seal of public miltrnft,can
110 longer act with a receilary spirit of free
dom, with that inward and communicated
len time r,t oi'intentions,always pure and loyal.
Those whose intrigues have once followed me,
can ngver forgive my having conquered Sa
voy, 011 the day they denoune'ed me as a trai
tor. Every one of my operations would be
croiTed ; every trap set by the enemy would
be denounced as a treason : secrecy, the foul
of success, would always hide some fu petted
intention.
I.therefore demand, Mr. PreGdent, and I
demand it prefiing!v,from a love for my coun
try, from attachment and gratitude to an ar
my to whom I am much indebted, that ano
ther general be named in my place : Nothing
can deface the decree of the 23d of Septem
ber, and it is necHfary that the citizen who
commands a French army, should be not only
purej' but free from suspicion.
I solicit only one favor, that I may be per
mitted to return home, there to enjoy my
rights of a citizen, and to prove, by the ob
fcuriiy of my lite, that if ever I had an am-
it was that of serving my country.
The general of the Alpine army,
Monies qu i ou.
A debate followed on tSe fuhjedl of general
Montefquiou's letcer, in which it was propos
ed to reicind the original decree for the dii
milfion of the general, but after an animated
difcflion, it was adjourned till thecommiflion
ers coildbe heard.
A petition was then presented from the sec
tion of the temple, against the propolition of
collecting an armed fbrce round the conven
tion, draw hi in equal parts from eafch of the
eighty-three departments.
A debate followed, in whicji it was hinted
that the members were afraid of their situa
tion, hut this idea was universally scouted :
The petition was sent to the committee to
report on it in three days.
THE MINISTER AT WAR
Requested the permifiion of the afTembly to
pure hale felted provisions in Hamb«urg, Hol
land, and Ireland, to the amount of three
millions of livresj.Mie observed at the fame
time, that this enormous foiti fcarcf fufficed
for the nourifliment of the armies ten davs.
Decreed.
A secretary read a second letter from the
fame rainifter, in which he demanded, if it
was necessary to deliver in the accounts' al
ready prefenred to and pa fled by the national
legislative aflembly ?
The Jacobins cxprefs a strong defii e to have
the ci-devant King and Oueen brought to
trial. The Convention seem to agree in the
opinion of tha Club, and one• of the Deps
raents of Paris has expressed the utmoil anx "
ty for a speedy judgment.
Ckamkcry, OClobcr 3
The Senate of Venice detei miudd : gaitift en
tering ifito the European Alliance to
France. The reason they aflign is not the be ft
that might or could be yet it is good e
ough—namely, that their forces would add Ik*
tie strength to the League, and that they are
needed at home to prevent the epidemical in
fluence of the French opinions fprt ading.
At Valtnfolcs, a Citizen sent five sous to the
Army, and made hmfclf the (ixth soldier of
his family— A daughter ashamed to be left at
home, put on the male habit, &joined the army*
MatfeiHes attempted to be plunged in ali (he
infamous and ciifgraces of Paris, has
refilled the artifices of the Arch-deltio)er of
Man, whose verv name dfhonours the page oii
which it is found.
Baflc preserves not the armed Neutrality of
'Berne, bu one of a less menacing nature. The
French read friendlhip thercj and molt proba*
bjy read cojrcftly.
Caillard, the French Envoy to has
quilted this feudal Metiopolis—They iuunihcd
him a paflport daied September u, and tailing
only eight days Ail Frenchmen aie expelled
thence*
Morjieur, the brother of Louis XVI. has cei
tainly overshot himjelf to imagine, that his Bc
dy-guard will be accepted in the Cartel for ex
changing prisoners as to many Auihians or
Pruflians.— He and they, it may be depended
upon, will meet the treatment only of traitors
taken in arms.fighting against their country.
The ltaliam .are i)»eadfully afraid, that the
triple-coloure*! French will make them a vifir*
Rome prays, Naples arins, and cails upon the
grand Mallei to save her, and Portugal to lend
her succours. is airgry and appeased, me
naces and dreads, ye't does nothing.
A Messenger arrived at Dover, from Turin #
on Monday, by way of Oftend. The report
was then that the King of Sardinia had been at*
fafiinated*
There is a true and there is a falfe Pbilofophy ;
but as it is the cafe with truth and falsehood*, the
latter has a more exienfive circulation than the
former, always countera&mg its falutaiy influ
ence. It is to the falfe Philosophy of Francti
that this unhappy people owes its mufortuues j
theftream of which, polluting whatever it ap
proximates, may be traced to the authors of the
boasted, but motl pernicious PhilolOphic Dic
tionary*
A wife Member of the National Aflembly, a
ftiort timebefore its diflolution, proposed, 44 that
the Rights of a French Citizen ftiould be de*
creed to Mr. Addifon." This Son of Liberty
was whispered by a friend, that Addifon had
been dead thefc fifty years*
A letter from tbeComfniffioners at
concludcs thus :
" It appears from every information, that
the brothers of the ci-devant King, accompa
nied by Castries, formerly a Marflial of
France, were at the head of the column of
the Emigrants. They were known by their
fury, and they endeavored by the molt infa.
mous and mean hypocrisy to introduce reli
gion into their atrocious quarrel.
" We saw General Kellerman at Suippe,
and found his army in the best poflible order.
Discipline prevails among thefoMicrst they
are full of ardor and courage, and we did not
hear a single complaint either from the Gene
ral or the troops, who have mutual confidence
in each other.
" Provisions arrive in great abundance j
and while we fee the fiekK ftrewea with the
carcalfes of the horles of the enemy, ours are
ftroug and vigorous."
Hon. Richard D. SpaiqHT, to be chofeu
GOVERNOR of this State.
His Excellency Alexandir Martin, Esq.
our late Governor, elected SENATOR, ia
Congters, in place of the Hon. Samuel John
ft on,' the term of whose appointment expire-,
in March next; that by the last balloting for
the place for holding the next alterably Flf
cttcvilla had a majority.
[Whole No. 384.]
Letter from tha Mrniftcr at Wsr.
( (ktv/er 5. 1752;
" Fii'ft Year of the Republic.
'' Citizen PreJuLfit,
" Colonel Uceltennann, from tfac united
armies of the ventre, has arrived in Paris this
maming; he has confirmed all the detail*
sent nie bv the General*; and adds, that they
continue to barrais the enemy daily. They
take carriages, provisions, and have made a
number of prisoners, among v. i:om are leverai
emigrants. (Signed-) " Sir van."
li A R L E M, 9.
The French remained at Spires when out
last intelligence came away. They had fenc
away 500 carriages to Landau, laden with the
produce of the magazines. The Auftriannia
gazines at Heidelberg have been sent away
tor fear of another such visit as that of Spires.
The Prince Bishop has alio left that place,and
the Margrave of Baden is hourly expected to
do the fame. Philipfburgh, which is in th<p
Bifaop of Spire's territory, is under the ap
prehensions of an as well as the Elec
tor's dominions, it being reported that the
French had thrown bridges over the Rhiitf
for that purpose.
LONDON,
FAYETTEVILLE, (N. C.) Dec. 18.
Letters from Newbern mention the
J
O&riber is,DECLARATION
of the DUKE of BitUNSWICIC.
[Read to the French National Convention by
M. HRJSSOT.]
WHEN their Majeftics, the Emperor and
the King of PrufiVa, in confiding to me the
command of t'ie armies which thele two allied
Sovereigns have caUsed to uiai ch into Fiance,
made me the organ of their intention , let
forth in the two declarations oi the 25th and
27th of July 1792, their Majeities were far
from conceiving the pofTibility of thole scenes
of horror, which preceded and brought on tbe
imprifonmentof their Majeftics, the King and
Oueen of France, and the Royal Family.-—
[This gave rile to some murmurs.]
[M. Briflot here obJerved, that the only
anlwef he should make to this manifefto, was
that Gener-d Duinoui ier had it printed and
distributed in his army; the good eifefts of
■which were found in the increased courage
imd provoked indignation of the soldiers. He
proceeded in the reading of it.]
Such attrocious a&s, of which nations in
the least degree civilized have not yet (hewn
an example, were nevertheless not the ex
treme bounds, which the audacity of certain
£i6tious men, who had contrived to render
the people of Paris the blind initruments of
their will, had set to their guilty ambition.
The fupprellion of all the King's function*,
which had been reserved to him by that very
conditution, which has been so long cried up
as the vow of the whole nation, was the lad
crime of the National Aflfembly, which has
brought upon France the two dreadful scour
ges of war and anarchy. [F»efh murmurs.]
BriiTot.—l request silence, if it be only
through pity.]
To perpetuate these evils, there remained
but one step to be taken, which could be dic
tated only by that mad spirit, the fatal fore
runner of the fall of empires, whicfi has seized
upon those men who didinguifh themselves by
the title of deputies of the nation, chufen to
confirm its lights and happiness, upon the
mod fnbftaiitial basis. The fir ft decree which
they p.afied in their AflTembly, was the aboli
tion of royalty in France ; and the senseless
acclamation of a small number of individuals,
of whom even several were strangers, claimed
the right of overthrowing the judgment of
fourteen generations, who have filled the
fourteen centuries of the exidence of the
"French monarchy.
This proceeding at which the enemies of
France alone should rejoice, if they fuppoftd
that it could have a lading effect, is in direct op
position to the firm resolution, which their Ma.
jedies the Emperor and the King of Pruflia have
£aken, and from which those two allied Sover
eigns will never depart, to restore to his Mod
Chridian Majedy his liberty, fafety, and royal
dignity, or to wreak a judand ftgnal vengeance
on those who shall date any longerto violate or
infringe upon them.
For these reasons, the undersigned declares to
the French nation in general, and to each parti
cular individual, that their Majcdics, the Empe
ror and the Xing of Pruflia, invariably attached
10 the principle of not medling in the interior
government of France, (a pealoj laughter) perfid
nevertheless to require that his Mod Chridian
Majedy, together wuti all the royal family,fhall
be immediately fei at libeity, by those who pre
sume to keep them imprisoned. Their Majef
lies also infid, that the royal dignity in France
ihall be, without delay, re-tdablilhed in the per
son of Louis XVI. and his fucceflors : (another
and louder burjl oj laughter) And further„that this
royal dignity (hall be secured from any such af
front in future.
If the French nation has not entirely lod fight
of its true intereds, and if, free in its resolutions,
it is desirous of putting a dop quickly to ail tnc
calamities of a war, which exposes so many pro
vinces to all the evils attendant upon the march
of an army, it will not delay an indant to de
clare its opinion in favor of the peremptory de
mands which I make in the name rheir Ma
jedics the Emperor and the King of Pi uflia ; and
which, in cafe of a refufal, will inevitably draw
down upon this kingdom, hitherto Co flourifh
ing, new and more terrible disasters.
The part which the French nation may
take, in con'eauence of this declaration, will
either extinguifli or perpetuate the fatal ef
fects of calamitous war, by removing, in the
fuppreflion of royalty, the means of re edab
lifting and keeping up the ancient connexion
between France and the powers of Europe ;
or may open the way, by negociation, to the
restoration of peace, order and tranquility,
which those who call themselves the deposita
ries of the national will, are the mod interfil
ed to render as prompt as it is neccflary to
the kingdom. (Signed)
Charles F. Duke of Brunswick
Lu NENBL'RG.
Head Quarters, at "Hans, Sept. 28, 1792.
These papers were referred to the Com
mittee of public fafcty.
COMBINED ARMIES.
PruJJian Head Quaitcrs at Vouliers,
Ofluier 1.
We have retraced our steps to the place in
■which we were 15 (lays ago. Wc have been 10
days in prelence ot the Ftench army without an
aftioo, or a cannon shot on either fide. The
"time has*paflVd in negociations. Baron die
Brctcuit r epan cd t o Vetd r. 11. 1 o ihisMiniftcr
it was, thai the King o; Piufliaand tSic oilier
Primes chiefly g.ivc ctfdit, after the tetieat ot
M. C,d..-nnt ,to whose bad calcLi !a: iul it a'c
imputed, and, as appears, wiih re»ft>n,_ ail the
notions hafillv 1 ak.cn up and ili netted, on
whici. o' prompt a ( id cheap Incccfs were
too rc.idily rmrrlt'ucd. But for it,eft fj|tjc ; ous
•ifljiiances, the entraiuc in o a c.mintty planted
vith'loiiteir.-s Iruni L 1 it-r m Rutin:, would
not have been a: ictnpu <1 ; or it a<. cm p' t'd . would
have IICI.II To wttii means. M. ck Rk
tcuti •s-a.cheri event< at V.-rdnr, Hpcci.'.llv while
the French army wjs furrcunacd aimoft o
fides by the alius.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, December 2s.
A bill providing for a reimhurfement,»fra }c*n
made of the Bank of the United States, was ta
ken into consideration. Mr. Steele moved that
the firft feAion be (truck out; this occasioned a
debate.
Mr. Steele said he made the motion, not that
he was opposed to the general object of the
bill, but on a persuasion of the bad policy oi
borrowing. He remarked, that with refpe&to
an individual it had been considered that he
was generally in the road to ruin, in proportion
to the facility with which he could borrow, and
the fame remark would probably apply to pubr
lie bodies. He had an aversion to the whole
fyllem of borrowing; he had therefore made
the motion in order to try the principle, how
far we were to proceed, and ia hope# that a
more full difcufiion of the would pro-
duce an abandoning of such a fyflem.
Mr. Madison enquired whether any informa
tion had been received if» consequence of the re
solution passed or\,Monday, directing the Secre
tary of theTreafury to report the date of the fo
reign loans.
The Speaker said, he supposed the time had
not admitted of any return from the Secretary.
Mr. Madison then said, he should bfc to
be informed what were the difadvamages whj*.h
would accrue from defering the bufiuefs a few
days. If it should appear that any lot's would oc
cur, or the credit of the government fuffer, he
should mod heartily agree to proceed in the
bill; but as it did not appear that this wis the
cafe, and much important information was want
ing, he hoped that no precipitation would take
place. .
Mr. Sedgwick replied to Mr. Madison; he
adverted to an exiding date of fa&s, in relation
to a sum of money now laying tifelefs, but ap
propriated for a fpccial purpose—he observed,
that one objedt of the bill was for the govern
ment to avail itfelf of this sum, by making a
a loan at a less rate of intered than a now
paid to the Bank of the United States.—
The design, said Mr. Sedgwick, is not the
gentleman from North Carolina has said, to e»-
crease the debts of the United States, bu&to di
minish those debts, and this has been the cafe in
refpeii to every loan that has been made since
the exidence of the present government.
Mr. Madison observed, that he had heard no
thing to induce him to suppose that any rtecefli
ty exided for a loan for the purpose of y the. hill—
*It is dated that there is a sum of money laying
useless : he knew, he said, of no motives df deli
cacy or propriety which should prevent tfie ap
plication of this money to paying the loan made
of the Bank of the United States. If anV iuch
reasons existed, he was ignorant of thenl, and
therefore Ihouldbe glad of further information :
he supposed he was not alone in this refpeA ;
many of the members, he believed, were equal
ly in the dark with himfelf.
Mr. Baldwin, after adverting to the several
aAs authorising loans, inferred from their amount
their appropriations, and the surplus of thole
loans now on hand, that there was no neceflity
for a new loan to discharge the loan made of
the Bank of the United States.
Mr. Gerry gave an account of the several
loans, the obje&s to' which they are appropria
ted, and from this statement ftiewed that there
was no such surplus as the gentleman stated, to
be-applied to the present object without inter
fering with appropriations already made Mr.
Gerry observed, that the design of the bill was,
not to increase the debts of the United States,
it is simply to provide for diminilhlng'lhfe inte
rest now paid on a debt due from the govern
ment —That this will be the operation of the
proposed loan was demonstrable; and (in this
principle the bill is moll extremely eligible.
Mr. Williamfon said he hadjnard one
substitute hinted at, for the fe&ion propfcfed to
be struck out ; and he fliould not vote for strik
ing out, for that. He fliewed that the felling of
the (lock in the Bank, belonging to the United
States, would have a most inauspicious effeA—
It would fall into the hands of foreigners; he
could have wiftied rather that the United States
owned the whole of the ilock. He doubted
whether the government could, in juftijre and
found policy such a sale of flock as to- af
fe& the value of the property, as fubfcijiptions
from individuals arose in part from the govern
ment being interefled; it would operate some
thing like an ex poll fa&o law. He - added 1
some remarks, to Ihew that <no hnmediatb neces
sity exilled for a new loan—he thought we
could do without one at present.
Mr. Madison replied to Mr. Williamfon—he
remarked that this was the firft time |ie had
ever heard it intimated, that the property of the
United States, in the Bank, was unalienable —
with refpe'dl to the money appropriated, and
now laying useless, he was of opinion that it
ought immediately to be applied to the original
purpose, i.e. to pay our debt tp France. lie tho't
that now was the time to discharge our obliga
tions to that country ; and To far was he from
confulering the present poilure of affairs as a
reason tor withholding payment —he could ra
ther wilh that the fumdue was wafted to them
on the wi»gs of the wind. He added, that if
he was arguing from miflaken principles,, he
Vihed to be set right. But the reason for
| -withholding payment from our generous allies
-2 46-
ic did not thijik fufficient: the ittfori fuggeft
■d was that the United States, by paying the i
money at the present time, might be liable to
~y it again, in cale of change in the govern
ment of France. ..
Mr. Giles denied the necessity and the policy
of making a loan of two million of dollars, to
provide for the payment of an inftalmen
100,000 dollars to the Bank of the U btates
He {hewed by an induction of particulars, that
it was at lead extremely problematical whether
there would be any saving by a loan at J per
cent, when the charges and douceurs were taken
into the account. At least, said he, it wi re
quire a considerable time to elapse before the
profits talked of will begm to accruc. On the
whole, considering the imperfect ttateof the in
formation in possession of the House, receding
the loans already made, their amount and appli
cation,-he thought tfie business Ihould be post
poned : he therefore proposed a resolution, re
quiring from the Secretary of the Treasury, a
more particular statement of fads, refpeSmg all
foreign loans, than was required by the reiolu
tian of Monday. .
Mr. Findley obferved—from the various sur
mises which had been made in the House, he
feared there was a general want of information,
in refped to the whole business; and therefore
was in favor of the bill's laying over till the re
quifite information was obtained. For his part,
he never would vote for the clause till this in
formation was received; and if the bill is not
postponed, he ihould vote for ftrikmg out the
feition. . ,
Mr. Boudinot remarked, that as the United
States need the sum now to be proviued for, and
were paying an interest at 6 per cent, the only
question was, whether we (hall borrow a sum
at S percent, to pay it off, and thereby make a
saving of 20,000 dollars annually, er continue
to pay the 6 per cent. He remarked, that the
only objeaion which had been mentioned, was
that which had been offered by the fefitfcmSn
from Virginia, that little or no saving would be
made, owing to the douceur, charges, &c.—
Mr. Boudinot said, that it must be understood,
that 5 per cent, includes the charges.
Mr. Fitzfimons observed, that the gentleman
who had brought forward the motion, had (aid
he did it to try the principle, whether we were I
to go on with the pernicious practice of loans.-—
Mr. Fitzfimons said he did not think that this
would try the principle. None of the loans
mad? by the present government have added to
the debt of the United States; they were all
made to discharge other loans, and have been
so applied to the great benefit of the Country —
and this is the objed of the loan nlw proposed
to be made.—Mr Fitzfimons stated sundry par
ticulars, to shew that a loan at 5 per cent, would
in the present cafe be an annual saving to the
United States of 16,000 dollars per annum;
even calculating on the douceur, stated by the
gentleman from Virginia, which is the highest
that has ever been mentioned.—Mr. Fitzfimons
added I'ome obserVations refpe&ing the neceility
of making immediate provision, as the<biftal
ment became due next week.
Mr. Madison adverted to the different grounds
on which the bill had been advocated; and now
the support was narrowed down to the firnple
idea of the exigency of making immediate pro
vision for the mflalment. He hoped, therefore,
that the bill would not be precipitated, but lay
on the table for further consideration.
Mr. Dayton opposed the bill's laying on the
table.
Mr. Steele offered sundry reasons to induce a
postponement. •
Mr. Venable observed, that according to the
statement which had been mentioned of the dou
ceur on foreign loans, the United States in the
firft i»ftance would encreafe their debt by bor
rowing at- 5 percent, to pay off loans on-which
, 6 per cent, was now paid : it would require a
number of years to elapse before they would be
gin to realize any advantage; so that at this mo
ment the debt of the United States were in fad
encreafed by the loans already made—and it
would take four years to place the country in
exaitly the fame ilate in which it now is, in re
lation to the loan of the Bank of the United
States, in cafe a foreign loan at 5 per cent, is
now made to pay the bank.
Some observations were made in opposition
to Mr. Venable, in which it was asserted that
the advantage of the proposed loan would be
gin immediately to accrue to the United States.
Mr. Steele's motion was at length determined
in the negative by ayes and noes, which are
as follows:
Mess. A<hej
Baldwin,
Findley,
Giles,
Greenup,
Grove,
Lee,
Madison,
Moore,
Mess. Ames,
Ben son,
Barnwell,
Boudinot,
S. Bourne,
B Bourn,
Dayton,
Fitzfiraons,
Gerry,
Gilman,
Goodhue,
Gordon,
Griffin,
Hartley,
Hillhoufe,
Huger,
Jacobs,
Mr. Madison then moved to strike out of the
firft fe<stion, the words two millions, and insert
two hundred /.Sciz/Wi, before the word 1 dollars.*
AYES.
MelT. Parlcer,
Schoonmaker,
I. Smith,
Steele,
St urges,
Sumpter,
Tredwell,
Venable.
NOES.
MeiT. Key,
Kitchelb,
Kittera,
Learned,
Livermore,
Murray,
Milledce,
Niles,
Sedgwick,
Sylvester,
W. Smith,
Thatcher,
Tucker,
Wadfworth,
White,
Williamfon,
Willis. 34
The Ayes arid Noes being otto
motion, are asicllnw :
AYES.
Mess. Aihe,
Baldwin,
Findley,
Giles,
Greenup,
Gregg,
Griffin,
Grove,
Key,
Kitchell,
I.ee,
Madifoiv,
■Millcge,
Moere,
N 0
Mess. Ames, ■
Barnwell,
Ben fun, Jacobs,
Doudinot, Kittera,
S. Bourne, Learned^
B. Bourn, Leonard,
Dayton, J'ivcrmor^
Fitzfimons, Murray,
Gerry, Sedgwick,
Gilman, W. Smith,
Goodhue, Sylvcller,
Gordon, Thatcher,
Hartley, Wadfworth. ai
The Speaker voting in this cafe in the ncga--
ive, the motion was loft.
Amotion by Mr. Williamfon, to amend the
fe&ion by adding a clause, to reftri# the pre
mium on the loan, to 5 per eent. per annum,
including all charges, was.unaninionfly agreed
to and thcnHoufe the adjourned.
MONDAY, Dec. 31,
Mr. B. Bourn presented the petition of the
corporation .of ColLy, yayttig
reparation for the damages done to said
College during the war, by the Americauand
French a rmies* and for rent for the fame—the
College wa# alternately used a- a barrack and
an hospital to the said armies Read and refer
red to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Thatcher presented the petition of Isaiah
Thomas, Printer, of Worcester, in MafTachu
fetts, praying that the article of Printing Types
imported from Europe, may be exempted front
duty ; and that bonds given by the petitioned
for the duty on a large quantity of Types im
ported by him, may be cancelled. Read and
referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
A bill to amend an a«sl entitled, an a& for e
ftabling a mint, and regu'ating the coins of the
United States, so far as refpe&s the coinage of
copper ; reported by, Mr. Williamfon,read
twice, and referred to a committee of thef
whole for to-morrow.
The bill to ascertain the fees deman 'al)le on
cases of admiralty proceedings in the courts of
the UnitetlStates, &c. was brought in engrav
ed, read the third time, the blanks filled up. Qn
the queltion, Shall the bill pass ?
Mr. said the bill appeared to him
to be efientially defective ; one leg was cut
away, and it limped very badly on the other; he
wished therefore it (hould not pass. He wished
that the judiciary fyflem (hould be generally a
mended ; this uas the desire of his constituents,
who, under the regulations now existing were
exposed to innumerable difficulties; and with
relpe& to seizures, they had almost ceased, ow
ing to the perplexities thrown in the way, by
the regulations of the courts of the U. States.
Mr. W. Smith acknowledged that the bill
was not so good an one as he could have wished
—-he remarked that he could not conceive how
any thing could limp on one leg. But its mutl?
lated state, said he, may be attributed to the
gentleman who now opposes its passage. Mr.
Smith said, the gentleman had not, in his opini
on, give any fufficient reason against its pac-
ing. He further remarked, that it originated oft
a petition from upwards of 60 refpe&able mer
chants of the city of Charleston, who complain
ed of the enormous fees they were fubje& to in
that state. Their petition has been thought just
and reasonable. The hill will afford them re
lief, without doing injury to any other parts of
the union. He hoped, therefore, that the bill
might pass, as a temporary relief, until a gene
ral revision of the judiciary fvftem, (hall tal;e
place. No further observations being
the bill was passed.
The report of a feledl committee on the pe
tition of the inhabitants of Vincennes, praying
to be released from the expences of re-surveying
their lands, was read, which was in favour of
the petitioners ; the report was accepted, and t
committee appointed'to report a ht\K *
Mr. Gerry presented the memorial of the offi
cers of the Maflachufetts line of the late army,
in behalf of themselves and the privates of the
said army. Read and laid on the table.
Mr. White called up a motion which he laid
on the table, on Friday last, which was, that a
committee be appointed to prepnre and report
a bill co explain the a& eftablifhingthe courts ol
the United States, in refpe& to taking bail in
criminal cases.
This motion being agreed to, Mr. White.
Mr. W. Smith, and Mr. J. Smith, were ap*
pointed as the committee.
Mr. Goodhue, from the committee appointee
for the purpoft,reported a bill relative toda*** l '
against the United States, not barred by any
of limitation, and which have not already Veer
adjusted. Read twice, and committed for Tfiurf
day next. Ordered that 100 copies be printed
In committee of the whole, on the bill makiuj
appropriations for the year 1793.
Mr. Sedgwick in the Chair,
The committee made some amendments;
then rose, and reported progress. On motion
the committee of the whole was difchaTged, an*
the bill recommitted to the felevSfc committer
which reported it.
tiiit
i .
Mill'. Nile!
Parker,
bchoci.-.maker,
I. Smith,
Steele,
Stur^cs,
Sumpter,'
litSdwiH,
T utker,
Vcnuble,
White,
Williamfon,
Willis. 3j,
Mcfl.
h «^
* vv£
Mr. ircve moved the following in substance i
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury
x directed to furnifh this House with a lift of
he several persons employed in the different of-
Sees of the various departments, and the lala
ries of each, for whom prsvifion is to be made,
kecording to the estimate of appropriation.
This motion, after some remarks, was with
drawn by Mr. Grove, as being too extensive,
who moved the following as a substitute :
That the Secretary of State, the Treasury,
and of War, lay before this House lifts of the
several persons employed in the offices of their
refpeiftive departments, and the salaries allowed
to each. Agreed to.
A message was received from the President
of the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear,
informing the House, that he has this day ap
proved and signed an ast concerning the regis
tering and recording of {hips or veflels.
A mefTage was received from the Senate, by
JWr. Secretary Otis, communicating a letter from
a number of th* citizens of Thouloufe, in France,
denouncing M. La Fayette, addressed to Con
gress.
In committee of the whole, on the report of the
i
ScleA Committee on sundry petitions
of persons praying to be placed
on the pension lift.
Mr. White in the Chair.
The report was read by the chairman, and
then considered in paragraphs. The committee
rose without finifliing the difcuflion, and the
House adjourned.
TUESDAY, Jan. t, 1793.
The petition of Samuel Li ndfay was read,
praying comp'enfation for his services as
a Lieutenant in the firmy of the United States
during the late war.
Mr? White reported a bill retyeaing taking
lail in criminal cafe l ;—which was read and
.ommitted for Friday.
Tne memo, ial of Nicholas iteib was read,
and referred so the Secretary of War.
In committee of the whole on the copper
coinage bin.—Mr. White in the Chair.—The
object of this bill is to alter the weight of the
copper coin, as stated in the former ast; af
ter some difcuflion, the-blanks fpecifying the
■height of the cent, and half cent \yere filled ;
the fi-ft with 8 pwt. 16 grs.—the other with
4 pwt. 8 grs.
Mr. Boudinot after remarking that the ar
tists who had exhibited fpecimensof tfie figure
of liberty on the feveralfamples of coin Which,
he had seen, all differed in their conceptions
on this occafion-—for the fake therefore of
uniformity—He movcd'to add a clause to the
prfefeot bill providing that in lieu of the fi
gure of liberty, the head of Columbus fhoulal
be substituted* Mr. Boudinot supported bis
motion by some pertinent remarks on the
character of Columbus, and the obligations
the citizens of the United States were under
to honor his memory.
Mr. Clark was in favor of the alteration-
Mi 1 . Williamfon and Mr. Livermore obje&ed
to it—On the question's being put, the mo
tion was negatived.
The committee then rose and reported the
bill—which the house ordered to be engrolTed
for a third reading.
In committee of the whole, on the report
of a felett committee refpe&ing invalids.
Mr. White in the chair.
The committee finiflied the difcuflion of
the report, and agreed tofundry amendmeHts;
which were adopted by the house, and a com
mittee appointed to bring in a bill pursuant
tjiereto.
The bill for allowing interest on a claim of
Udny Hay, was taken into confideratiori in
committee of the whole, and reported with
out amendment—ordered to be engrofied for
a thi-rd reading to morrow.
The bill to authorize the settlement of an
account of Lewis Garanger, for military fer
vices during the late war, was committed,
amended, reported, and ordered to be en
grofled.
On motion of Mr. Sedgwick, the report of
% committee on the memorial of John Tucker y
vas taken up—the fuin reported was ft ruck
out, and a committee appointed to report a
bill* Adjourned.
Domestic Articles.
CARLISLE, Dec. 26.
The Citizens of Carlisle, happy in com
mon, with the people of the United States,
in the full enjoyment of liberty, secured by
the inoft excellent form of government known
to the world, are anxious that these invalu
able blefliugs (hould be diffufed. Tliey have
anticipated the rising lustre of freedom in
France, of which they themselves have ex
perienced its meridian blaze. Although they
have deplored many recent tranfadtions in
France they have always looked forward with
hope to that goal of liberty to which French
men must at length arrive. In the triumph
of the French republic they trust they will be
hold the geueial fall of tyranny. It was such
fcutimtnf. that nnturaUy called for q public
demonftratMHi-of their .joy when the retreat
- ~»fcti>e4hik«. Bfun(Vick; anr*>unced.
AgtoeaMe therefore to the wj(b*« of. Town
by a notice frqm the Bur-
Kes ( aji Thursday last the bells rung in this
» with fiiort intervals from three o'clock
»ntil nine in the evening.—At night the Court-
Hotife was elegantly iiliurrnated. Two hcau
tifol tranfpa-encies were diiplayed from the
opper wjudows of the Court-House, with the
4bll6#M|| infeifption* in large letters legible
St a great iliflaßCfwThe one to t l e ealt fig
oificaatof the Event then celebrated, being
in tta* quarter—l.ET MAN BE FREE
The other was to the-Sooth, intimating that
prevails most w that unfortunate
hemir p ANN V IS ABOUT TO
CEASE. Bonfires accompanied the illumina
tions { and the evening was passed by tfce ci
tizens in convivial meetings exprefiive of
their fatisfa&ion.
N E W-Y Oil K, Dec. 28.
" yeftefdav, in testimony of the heart-felt
pleasure the citizens of this metropolis were
inspired with, on hearing the triumphant fuc
celfes which were attending the arms of our
generous allies the French, the morning was
ulhered in by the ringing of bells.
At 4 o'clock, a Federal salute was fired
from the battery And every countenance
seemed to speak juv at heart in the. glorious
event, that Liberty fliould reign viftorjous
over her proud, despotic invaders ; and at
the clear prolpeft that fucli monikers as Kivgf*'
will soon be expelled from the face-of the 4
earth. 1
In the evening, the Tammar.v Society, or
Columbian Order, met at their Wigwam to
celebrate the day, and a number of"toafts were
drank; which we are.unable to obrain fol
thisdav's paper : The Wigwam was beauti
fully iliuminated ; and the monument dedica
ted to Columbus, was alio illuminated, which
attra&ed the attention of the citizens and (if
the J air.
Ext'afl of a letter from Paterfim (N. J.) Dec. 19.
"Various paragraphs having appeared in
different papers refpefting the invention of a
Machine at this place, for the purpose 6f
cleaning the cotton of it-, feed, and as jnoft of
those accounts are erroneous, and unauthen
ticated, we are authorised to inform the pub
lic, that a Ginn for-the above purpose is now
compieated upon a conftruftion entirely new,
and to work by water ; one of these engines
occupying a space of not.more than 12 feet by
4, will produce very near of cleaned
■ cotton per day, and requites only the allift
ance of children. * The usual and hitherttf
great impediment-»Fing from the. ainaziWg'
friction, and consequently great wear ?nd'
tear, is lonearlv removed in this engine, as td
be of but very little or no importance. The
Machine is divided into separate and diftinft
movements, any given number of which may
be instantly flopped by the attending child,
without being the 'east impediment to the re
mainder. An application is making to go
vernment for a Patent, being the produ&ion
and joint invention of Mr. William Pearce
and Mr. Thomas Marshall, candu&ors of
. the. Cotton Spinning and Weaving Depart
ments belonging to the Manufactory in this
plice."
BOSTON, December 19.
BOSTON GLASS.
His Excellency Governor Mifflin, of Penn
sylvania, has written to the Proprietors of the '
Glafs-Manufa&ory in this town, on the fufe
je<ft of a supply of their Glass, for the House
building in Philadelphia for, the residence of
the President of the United States; and it is
with pleafuie we can afTure the public, that
the Glass made here, is everyway cqvol y if not
fnperior, to any of European manufacture :
Our own citizens, too, are assiduous toencour
rage the enterprize; many houses are now.
glazing with this glass* and we are told, that
the windows of the elegant Chateau, building (
by Mr. Barrell, in Charleftown, will be of
this fabric.
The violent opposition to the Vice-Presi
dent of the United States, may in the end, be
produ&ive of much good : It has called forth
his friends—and the examination of his prin
ciples and opinions have served to strengthen
and confirm them. It is from free difcuflion
alone, that jieedom can be eltabliflied. To
him, ard his writings, the following amiable
lines moll strikingly "apply— >.
44 While malice, friend, denies thy page-
Its pure cefeftial fire-
While critics, and while Bards in rage,
Admiring, won't admire;
While wayward pens thy worth assail,
And envious tongues decry,
These times, tho many a friend bewail,
... > These tijnes bewail-not I. "
But when the world's loud praise is thine, ' s *
And spleen no more flrall blame-
When thy Defence and thou (halt (hioe,
In one eftablifh'd fame ;
When none (hall blame, and ev'ry lay,
Devote a wreath to thee—
That day (for come it mill) that day,
Shall i lament to fee."
Philadelphia, Jan. 2.
Monday arrived hef the /hip Experiment, Captain
M'Calmoit, from Dunkii k, which file left the 27th
oj OElober— at which time the republic oj France ,
was entirely clear of the Prussian and Auflrian
forces ; the Ftench armies had penetrated into the
territories of their enemies, and it wasfupp.Jed
would not Jind much difficulty in reaching Stujjels.
LISLE, October 16.
The van-guard of Dumounei's army>ii ex
prftcd to have arrived yellerday at Valenciennes.
The general i* hourly expeficd there. The
three comrniflioners from the National Conven- 2
lion, who set out on Saturday last to go and
establish order and tranquility in Cambray, have
not yet been heard from.
FRANKFORT, Oflober 10
The rapid frnfation of fear has seized all the
Princes on the hanks of the Rhine. The house
of Baden has taken flight. The Prince of L>-
has arrived at Manheim with all his bag
gage. The fiifhop ol Spires has retired to Oderi
wald, and thence has taken the road of Helbron,
towards Newftadt. The commissary of prpvif,
lions at Heidelberg har emptied the magazines
in haste, on the news of the approach of the
French. Many French families have taken re
fuge in ihc Oldcuvald.
247
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
SESSIOf) OF SATURDAY OCTOBER 20.
The Secretary read the following
Letter from the Commissioners to the Army
of the Centre,
At the Camp of Vaudoncourt, Odt, 18,
at ten o'clock in the evening, the
First year of the French Republic.
Citizens,
THF.divifion of the army commanded
by General Kellerman, arrived yesterday
at the Camp of Vaudoncourt: General
Valence, who commands the other divi
fioW, advanced through the sorest of Mau
l gienne, and puihed his van-guard a$ far
as Pillon, which he found occupied by
; the enemy. He was obliged to bring up
his cannon against this poit, and then he
soon got master of it.
The Duke of Brunfwick and General
Kalkreuth sent in that day a Trumpeter
with an Aid de Camp, to demand a per
sonal conference with General Kellerman;
they tefHfied a desire to accommodate
matters, but General Kellerman adhering
(tri&ly to the intentions of the national
convention, answered that he could en
ter into no conference whatever, as long
as the Prufiian army ftiould be on the ter
ritory of the French republic ; that the
re-surrender of Longwy was a prelimina
ry without which hg could enter into no
engagements. The Duke of Brunfwick
offered to evacuate Longwy and to give
the place up on the 26. Kellerman judg
ing that he wanted four days mote to ar
rive with his army before that place on
account of the roadS being broke so much
insisted on having the place evacuated the
22d of this month.
After this conference, General Valence
was charged with the regulation of the
articles of capitulation. We fend in
closed an authenticated copy thereof, ?nd
you will judge yourfelf of the advanta
ges of this event. On the 22d at teu
o'clock in the morning the enemy will
• have quitted the territory of the Repub
lic. General Kellerman will march up
.-his whole army in battle array, and our
commilfioners will thank them for their
courage and perfeverence. We beg our
'fellow citizens to partake of the joy
which such an event hascaufed us.
See here then this contest of despotism
against liberty soon determined ; and
happy are we to have been the witnefles
thereof, and to be charged to give you
tbefe incerefting details.
o .
The commissioners of the national
convention,
Further accounts by the late arrival at this port
-'from Dunkirk state—That Verdun and Longwy
were evacuated pursuant to articles of capitula-
tion by the Austrian and Pruflian arnvtcs, and
immediately taken pofleflion of by the French
forces—feveral other places were also abandoned
by the invading armies, and others taken by the
French after a faint resistance—so that the enemy
were entirely driven out of Fiance—Not only
so, but.the French armies had penetrated into
the Geiman Territories, had taken Spires,
Worms, Mayence and other places—Spires and
Worms Jhad been laid under conti ibutions ;
from the latter a million of ltvres had been ex-
acted— The siege of Lisle was raised, after hav
ing about zoo houses deftroved, and a uumber
of the citizens and the garrison killed,
s In ; Chamberry, a society had been formed of
Ihe friends of equality—this focirty confilted of
1200. persons—they have addrefled the national
convention —have abjured the Duke of Savoy,
and swear thev will never again acknowledge a
king, or submit to any maftcr whatever—The
people of Fvance are exceedingly elated with
their fuccefTes— and consider their lofles by the
devastations and lieges of the enemy as nothing,
when contrasted with ;he favorable turn tn their
affairs, and the profpeft of a speedy and perma
nent < ffabliftiment of their Liberties under the
aufpiccs of a Free Republi^ —The papers we
have fceo are to the 23d Oft. printed at Paris—
thev contain no accounts of the prefcnt fituaiion
of M. lahFavett*, nor of the ci-devant King and
Queen ol France.—ln Verdun a considerable
number of letters and papers were intercepted,
throwing great light on the hitherto secret ma
nceu\ res of the emigrants, and the other enemies
of the revolution—M. Potion, in a speech to the
Convention, inform* them of a protest of the
ci-devant King against all the a6U and proceed
ings of the National Assembly, which he had
signed—a Hedging that he had not been in a state
of freedom to approve or not to approve those
a£>s and proceedings—This protest had been
•. sent to several of the courts, particularly thai of
liruiTclU.— G neral Paoli is goi«g on an expedi
tion against Sardinia.
By accounts published of the votes for
Vice President of the United States, it ap
pears, that exclusive of Kentucky—the num
bers are for Mr. Adams 77 —Mr. Clinton 50
—Mr. Burr I ; difference fev. Mr. Adams 26.
It is an old remark, li to preserve peace be
prepared for war"—but modern patriots
preach a contrary do&rine ; so in politics,
they fay the way to preserve the u rights of
is to throw down every barrier of law
and justice that defends them.
Tiiofe who are fmcere in inculcating thi
ufefnlnefs of public lchools, as a means of dit
fufi'ng knowledge and preferring liberty, win
not stop at that point. They will feel the
fame ardor to promote a free ftftify into pub
lic measure", and a xhcap and icrt&in fciiculii
tion of new/papers. It will be in vain that the
people are, by education, enabled to judge of
their rulers,-if they watch not over their do
ings, or be not Jeafonably and fully informetl
thereof.
As we government, it teems, has gained ho
less than Onr million by granting a chaiter
worth no more than five million, would it not
be well to take a hint from the plan of the
bank, for difpofmg of the wclrcrn lands when
ever peace and a completion of n\\ privatefaUi
in that countfy will permit such a mealure to
be adopted. The territory (which is as much
the property of the public now, as the privi
lege veiled in the bank was prior to the char
ter) might be divided into 25,000 lots or
shares, and a grant be made of 20,000-, free
of all quit-rents and taxes, to an incorporated
company of such generous fubferibers as will
agree that the public may retain the remain
ing J,OOO. The better to ensure success to
the plan, by evincing the faith of those who
adopt it in its profitablenefs, it should be un
derstood that all members of the government
be free both in law and decency, to take the
lead in liberal fnbfcriptions for their private
emolument. It will be further expedient,
and tend to keep up a proper understanding
between the company and the government*
and to facilitate seasonable aids, benefits and
encouragements to the former, if members of
the government be not only interested as fub
feribers, but a suitable number be alwavs in
commiflron to manage and dircd. the affairs of
the company.
Onr fcrrbbiers caution the people to beware
of the writers who recommend order and obe
dience to the law. The writers who cry out
knave and rogue, they fay, are the people's
friends, and are to be confided in. What is
the amount of this ?—A scribbler who finds
any passion up, and falls in with it, is very
clever. Wherever there is a local prejudice,
he is very sincere, and shews himfelf a man <;f
truth by cowting it and making the moll of
it to obftru<st the law, and to discredit and
▼ilify the servants of the public. But the
man that advises others to be calm, to for
bear violence against the excise law, to think
more favorably of government and of human
nature than our mobbocrats fay they deserve,
is held up as a fly seducer of the republican
virtue of our country. The way to cheat
our people, is not to oppose prejudice and
paflion. The ambitious man who would de*
ftroy liberty, must run with the multitude,
and run them out of breath. Liberty must
have no resting place—it must have no (bel
ter. Thus exhausted and defeneelefs, it be
comes an easy prey, and this is what our
anarchy-men seem to be laboring to accom
plish. We have a fret government; yet that
will not please them. The next experiment
seems to be either to have none at all, or one
that is not free.
SILLERY,
Prieur,
the PORToj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Experiment, M'Calmot, Dunkirk
Carr A.
Aurora,
Brig Betsey,
Betsey,
Polly, Charnock,
Marv, Alcorn,
Schr. Friend/hip, Edwaids,
6 per Cents, 21J
3 per Cents, 12/ a
Deterred, i2_/io
Full/hares Bank U. S. 36 per cent. prem.
(£IT Debate on Mj. Steele's Motion, in our next-
Aflurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERICA.
ARF- dcfircd to call at the Insurance Office,
No. 119, South Front-ftrtet, on Thursday
next, between the hours of 9, a. m. and 8, p.tw.
on particular business.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 31.
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERICA,
ARE dcfircd to take Notice, that the time
for which their Di Rectors were elected,
will expire, according to the Conftiiution, on
the second Tuesday (being the eighth day) of the
present month—when another Elc&ion tor Fif
teen Di rectors is to be held, at their Office,
No. 119, South Fi onr-ftreet, at 10 o'clock, a. m.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Scc'ry
Jtmary i, 1793.
South-Point,
LYING at tbe end of Sinipuxent Neck, on
the Eaftem Shore of Maryland, within two
miles of the Inlet*, in Worcester Coi ft\y, in the
said State, being she (it(l landing foj£.*frels that
tiade in there. From the situation of the place,
it is convenient for fifh, clams and oyfteis, is
oprn to the sea, and has every conveniency that
could be wifti'd for. The foil is excellent for
Indian coin, wheat or flax, is natural to clover*
and has a good marsh pasture for stock.
Any person defirousof purchasing, may know
the terms by applying to Asjheton Humphreys,
in Philadelphia—Mr. Benjamin Pumcll % in Indian
Town, Worccfter County—or to Capt. Littleton
Robins, near the place.
Jan. t.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Malaga & Cadis
Cap< Fran coil
do.
Stephens,
Elliot,
Clark,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
The of the
The Members of the
TO BE SOLD,
That well-known place, called
1
'.Jif
do.
Amfterdiift
St. MartinsLONDON, October 11.
By advices from Cologne, dated the
6th in ft. it appears to be the intention of
the French General Cuftine, to pulh on
to Mayenee, Daimtladt, and Frankfort,
even to penetrate into the Hessian territo
ry. Tiie inhabitant* are all collecting
their most valuable effects. A yacht has
conveyed to Coblentz the Prussian mili
tary chelt, the aichives, chuich orna
ments, &c.
Letters from Manheim positively ft ate
that an at my of from 25 to 30,000 Ruf
fians will be before Landau, by the com
mencement of the month, and
that the firft column, conhfting of 6000
men, has already reached Bohemia.—
These troops will unquestionably be join
ed by the body of 25,000 Hungarians,
which is expedttd to reach the borders of
the Rhine within the above period.
By the above advices it appears that
the Princes of the Empire aie to furnilh
double contingencies, and that the King
of Pruflia has ordeied the levy of fredi
troops. In this cafe General Dumourier
has formed a very falfe opinion of the
sentiments of this monarch, whom, with
the whole of his army, he has sent back
- to Pruflia.
The disorder in the queen's feet is riot
occasioned folelv by corns, but by a fet
tled humour, which afFc&s the soles of
"both, and renders them so painfnl, and
afterwards tender as to prevent her ma
jelly (landing for any length of time with
out extreme pain. The faculty have all
agreed, that the humours (hould not be
repelled.
The governors of the bank of England
have agreed, that in future, all bank notes
lhall have a line engraven across them to
ftiew where they are to be cut, when sent
by poll ; and diie&ions will be given to
their clerks to write the number on each
lialf, and also the date of .month and year
on the left hand fide of the note, as re
commended by the pod-office.
Prince Potocki has given an entertain
ment at Warfavv, in which the health of
Catherine of Rnflla was drank, under a
discharge of 300 guns. The accompany
ment would have been more suitable to
the toalt, if every gun killed an hundred
thousand persons.
At a meeting, called by tlie Lord
Mayor of Dublin, at the Exchange there,
on the loth inft. a proposal was made by
his lordftu'p, that some public means
(hould be used to obtain subscriptions tor
the relief of the French emigrants in Ire
land. The motion was negatived almolt
unanimously, for though the company
were willing to promote private subscrip
tions for the fame purpose, they would
not, by any public measure, fecm to ex
press a censure of the French Revolution.
thf pru«sian retreat.
Before the disastrous entry of the
allied armies into Champagne, the
French were taught to dread the
immense and believed invincible
Cavalry of Hrulfia.—What is now
become of it ? The horse is the ten
derelt of all animals, and the in
clemency of a in a i shy foil and inces
sant rains, have killed them by hun
dreds, Cultine has burnt the forage
jieceflary for their support, and the
French Huflars bring numbers of
thiTin in daily—Vitry is the market
for their lale ; and there the pea
sants come to buy—and bespeak the
preference of Inch as the Light
Troops may acquire in their excur
fions
Thus, what with the neglecft of
iiccors, imprudence in their feed
ng, tlie determined enterprize of
he enemy, and, yet more than all
hefe, the inclemency of the season >
this perhaps unequalled allemblage
Df the fined troops in Europe is for
ced inrothe dilgrace of retreat, be
fore armies they have too lightly
derided, and leaders ihey feein in
judieioufly to have despised.
DUBLIN, September 21.
Patriotic Divorces.: —The French la
dies app»-.' at the bar of the Affeinbly,
offer theii U'fbands to fetve on the Fron
tiers, faying, at the fattve time, they ate
of no vfe at home.
Wiien feve.al patriotic French huf
foands offered to fend their wives to the
Frontiers the Afltmbly have always pair
ed to the Order of the Jay.
The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars
per anm:ir.—One hit] to be f»id at the time offub-
ADVERTISEMENT,
53* PERSONS Ml a djinia from this (ity whe
wi/Ji to/übfirioeJor this Gazz tt i, are injotma
that the condition */«jdvanciMg fix wonlhi JfubJcrtf
tion. or making provifiw for iti being paid hen,
muji be complied with, othgrwrjc the paper J car>not be
forwarded —The Editor having been feiereiy taxed
b\ the pvjlage oj rtquefls the ordtts by pofi
jbr the mas be fert him jree iff that charge.
To the Public.
THK Subscribers having been appointed a
commiitee of the Board of *.he Ti uflecs of
the Univerfny of North-Carolina, for the pur
pose of receiving proposals from luch gentlemen
as may intend to undertake the inilru&iow of
youth in that tnflitution, take the opportunity
of making known to the public their wilh thijt
such gentlemen Ihould fignity their inclination
to the fnbfcribers.
The objects lo which it is contemplated by
the Board to turn the attention of the ftutl nts,
on the (lift eftablilhinent, are—The Itudy of
Languages, paiticularly the Knglifh—Hiiloryt
ancient and modern—the Bclle-iettres—
and Moral Philosophy—the knowledge of the
Mathematics and Natural Philosophy—Agricul
ture and Botany, with the principles of Aichi-
te&ure.
Gentlemen conversant in these branches of
Science and Literature, and who can be well re
commended, will receive very handforoe encou
ragement by the lioaid. The cxerciiei of the
inititution will commence as early es poflible
alter i he completion of the buildings of the Uni
versity, which are to be coinra£kd for immedi
ately. SAMUEL ASHE,
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAYE,
DAVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLES
D 2,5 ep.2rri
Soon will be published,
the SYSTEM of
A(nt-c7£a7idi
Used by Mr.Lloyd, in taking clown the Debates
ot Congress. A system so easy, that any man,
of ordinary capacity, may clearly comprehend
it in half an hour, and soon pra6lile >t, in its
fulled extent, without any furrhcr inftru&ion,
than what will be conveyed in a few pa^es, —
the whole ART being comprised in eighteen
fimpie chat afters, without any of thole perplexing,
arbitrary marks, with which the learners of
other systems are obliged to burden their me
mory, jnd einbarrafs their pra&ice.
Price, to Subscribers, One Dollar—to Non-
Subscribers, a Dollar and ha!J.
Subscriptions received by Messrs. Rice, Book
sellers, Market-ftxeet, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street.
Haifa Dollar to be paid at the time of fuhjeribing.
A GREAT bargain.
FOR Sale, a beautiful Situation on the Po
towmack, adjoining iht town of Alexandria
and in a line of direction towards the Federal
City and George Town,in full view ot tach place,
commanding a pro(pe&of the river and adjacent
country ot Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying di
reftl'y on the river, will be fold, will) ihe im
provements, which ate, a two-story framed
d welling-honfe, neatly Hnifhed, a kitchen, office,
buck, smoke-house and dairy, two-itory framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an tce
houle, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
ceflary improvements ; the whole of the land
enclosed with polls and rails, tenor fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its
contiguity to those three towns mull render it an
objecl worihy the attention of any person who
wishes to invest money in a propeity that inuft
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in
create of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central Situation to each place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep (hore and harbour,
capable of receiving veflels of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be erected here to the City ©f
Washington and the Maryland shores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.— Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which will suit well to supply the above in
wood and limber. The title may be seen to the
above property, which is indisputable, and terms
known by application to the Subscriber, living
on the premises.
December 12 th, 1792
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or between Providence
and Bolton, a very small TRUNK, covered
with feal-lkin of a reddifa colour, with white
spots. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Carolina State Notes, and a few of the
State of Rhode-Hland ; with other papers,which
can only be fenriceable to the proprietor. The
State notes are clucktd at the offices from whence
theyilTued. Any peifon producing the Tiunk
(with its contents) to JOHN MARS! ON, of
Boston, WILLIAM HALL, of Piovidence,
Mclfrs, PATERSON and BRASHER, New-
York, or Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, (hall receive the above reward, or for any
part of the prwpertv, One Hundred Dollars.
Boston, Nov. 28. eptf.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
Philadelphia, November q. o, 1792.
THE Stockholder of the Bank of the United
States are hereby informed, that according
to theftatute of incorporation, a general election
for twenty-five Dne£tors will be held at the Bank
cf the Unit* d States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the fevertth day ot January next, at
ten o'cock in the forenoon.
And duj fuati to the eleventh feftion of the
Bye-Laws, the Stockholders of the said Bank aie
hcteby 'notified 10 aflemble in general meeting
at the lame place,on Tuesday the eighthday of
January uext, at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of ihe President and Directors,
JOHN KEAN, Calhicr.
248
Bttwur, ") Dcccmbcr .792.
William Shipley 1" ihe hl K" Coul 1 o| Ch»nce
Complainant, J- ry otthe State ol Ncw-
John Mag and o- Jcrfcy.
iiicrsDcUndauts. Prejent,
Hll Excclltncy th, Chancellor.
THE Complainant having filed bis bill of
Complaint against .he Defendants m the
month of September, fcvcuteen hundred and
ninety-one, and 111 the laid Bill of Complaint did
jmou other things let foith that the laid Coin
planum b, mg lei zed in his Dem lne as ot tee
ot and in a certain Trad ot Land, said to contain
nine bundled and thirty acres, lnuate, lying and
being in the township ol Hardwiok in the coun
ty ot Suss.-x 111 the State of Ncw-Jeitey, did 011
the ftlll ot Maich te>c«een hundied and eighty
five, baigain fell and convey the fame 111 tee lim
pl, unto |ohn Meng and lohn Henderfon ot ihe
citv of Philadelphia, William Goodwin and
lohu Town, for tlie confideratiou ot Chie T'nou
tand Six Hundred Pounds 111 Gold or Stiver
That on the fifth day of the Tame month ot
March the said feoffees above named did cxccute
unto the said William Shipley a Deed of Mort
gage in feclimple of the said Tradi of Land to
fccure the payment ot the said fixtecn hundred
pounds, with the lawful interett which might
thtieon accrue—That in the year seventeen hun
dred and eighty-fix the laid John Meng and
William Goodwi* did become Bankrupts with
in the intent and meaning ol the a£ts ot the Le
giflnure ot the Commonwealth of Pcnrifylvama,
and fucb proceedings were had against them that
111 the fame month they were duly dtclatcd
Bankrupts; aid that they the said John Meng
and William Goodwin did 111 fomc Ihort time
afterwards co.vey and tianster all their estate
both teal and personal, and particularly all their
right and title to the premises above mentioned
to John Field, Curtis Clay, James C. Fisher,
Isaac Wharton, John Kaighnand Arthur Collins
allot' the city of Philadelphia, fubjeft to the
Mortgage so as atorefaid given to the said Com
plainant.—That the said John Field, TTtinis
Clay, James C. Filber, Isaac Wharton, John
Kaighnand Aithur Collins soon alter bargained,
fold and conveyed all their Right and Title of
and 111 the said Tract ol Land unto Benjamin
Town of the city of Pniladelphia, and John
Town, fubj.-tt to the Mortgage atorefaid—That
on the eighteenth day ot O&ober seventeen hun
dred and eighty-five, the said John Town and
Benjamin Town did execute another Mortgage
to the said William Shipley for securing the pay
ment of twelve hundred pounds in certain in
llallments—That in the month ct January seven
teen hundred and eighty-fix, John Town did
bargain and fell in fee Pimple alt his Right and
Title to 1 tie laid premilVs, to the said Benjamin
Town, fubjeft to the Mortgage., aforefaid—That
111 the month of Fcbruaiy seventeen hundred and
eighty-eight, the said Benjamin Town did con
vey all Ins Right and Title to the said piemifd,
to John Field and Curtis Clay of the city ot PIII
- upon certain Trulls unknown to thcal
Complainant—That said Benjamin Town the
soon after became Bankrupt, and in pursuance
of the bankrupt laws of the State of Pcnnivlva
nia, did convey all his estate real and personal
to a certain Robert Ralfton—l hat John Hen
derfon did alfoin the month of September feven
rtren hundred and eighty-leven be. ome a Bank
rupt, and under the bankiupt laws of the State
of Pennsylvania, did afiigu and convey all his
estate real and personal to David Lenox, George
Hughes, Matthew Clarkfon, Peter Baynton and
Richaid Bache— And the Complainant doth 111
and by his said Bill, pray that those having
Right to the said Estate may be decreed to pay
him what is due on the laid Mortgages, or that
the equity of Redemption be forclofed by tjie
Decree of this Court.
And now upon opening this matter this day
by \icliard Stockton, Esquire, being ofthe com
plainants couilfel—it appearing to the Court
that the said defendants do retide >n ih« State
of Petmfylvania, without the junfdidfion ot this
Court; and it appearing funiier to this Court
that writs of fubpeena have been taken out ac
cording to the course of this Court, that the said
writs ot fubpeena have been duly served upon
the said feveial Defendant* upwards ot cie
year from this day ; and that none ol the laid
Defendants have cauCtd his or their appearance
tci be eptcred in this Court to the suit of the said
Complainant : It is therefore otdered by his
Excellency the Chancellor, that the said De
fendants do cause their appearance to be mtered
to the suit of the above Complainant according
to the rules of this Court in two munths from
BALDWIN DADE.
ep 2 m
advertisement.
this day, or that the Plaintiffs bill be taken pro
contcffo agreeably to the dirc&ions of the a£t of
the Legislature in such cafe made and provided.
—The Complainant giving notice and making
publication of tb>s rule as in and by ihe said a&t
.ot the Legiflaiure is provided.
WILLIAM PATERSON, Ckancelior.
Dtctmbtr iJI, 1792. ep 30*
EOWEN'i EXHIBITIONS OF
W ax- YV ork &Paintings,
ARE open every day and evening (Sundays
excepted) at the House lately occupied
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eighth-street
First Room—Contains upwards of 100
elegant Paintings, and about 3° Wax Figures,
\n full stature—among which are Likenelles
of a number of the principal characters in
America; Baron Trenck in chains, an Indian
Chief, and several beautiful young Ladies of
different States, &c. &c.
< Second Room—Contains eighteen larg#
Va* Figures, which form a Sociasle Club,
or the Oyster Supper ; and the School for
Scandal, consisting of twelve female Figures,
making their oblervations on a young Lady,
who had eloped with a Footman.
■ Admittance One Quarter of a DolUr each
Room.
ADVERTISEMENT.
Gazette is publijhedin North Fifth-Street s
No. 34, between High and Mulberry Streets—where
tke Editor now resides.
A LARGE CELLAR TO LET,
Sujftcicntly capacious toJlorejtveral hundred barrels,
Enquire as above.
To the Public;
fubfcribc begs leave to acquaint the pub-
JL lie in g'-neia!» and his cuHomers in p<micu r
lar, tnat he ha& entered into paitneifhip win,
Mr. HENRY KAMMtRER, 2nd thatne Print*
ing bulineli in the biiglilh and German languages
is now carried on under the firm ot STLINER.
and KAM MERER, No. 8,5, »n Race-ftrfltt, be
tween Second and Tl.ird-iheets.
The German Ne\vlp;per will be publifhcd hv
them, as usual, 011 Tuesdays, and al! k'uu ot Plim*
IniT work done wiih care and fx»« dmon.
MELCHIOR STEIVER.-
phitudclphia, Km. 6, 17ye.
NEW TEAS.
IMHERIAL.HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Of the very tiilt quality, and laicll importation
from Canton, via New-Yoik, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third , between C licfnui and Market Stieetj,
N. B. A Jew Boxes of the ulovc HYSON jor file.
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great DocV-llreet, Niw-Yoik,
THE Subscriber intending t« confine himfclf
entirely t<? the PURCHASE anbSALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, m offer
his Cervices 10 hiiirientls and oih< is, in the trae
ota Stock Broker. Thofc who nuy please to la
vor him With thi ir business, may c-'rpeod upca
having it tranfafled with ihc utmost fidelity an &
Jifpatch.
Ordersfrorti Philadelphia,Bofton,orany otHrr
part of the Unitccl States will be ftriftly jtttu'd
ed to. '
LEONARD BLEIiCKKR.
M.
BOOKS,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
M A T HE
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. A MERICANMUSEUM,ftom itscommence
ifjL ment in January 1787, to June 1792, irv
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and Uttered,
seventeen dollars and three filths.
This work, which is now conduced on an im
proved plan, containing the belt pitces publiftied
for and against ihc proceedings of government.,
will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural,and miscellaneous essays,
as any ever publiftied in America. Perhaps in no
one work a re To many valuable docurru ntsrefpe£t
ing the history of this country, collected together.
His Excellency the Prefidcnt of the United States,
has declared of it, that u a more ufeful literary
plan has never beeni undertaken in America, npr
one more deserving of public encouragement."
The fubfeription is two dollars and a.half per
aim. Gentlemen in the country who with to
be supplied with this work, are requefttd to give
commiilion to friends in the city to fubferibe tor
and receive if Any of the back number!
may be had in order to complete fels.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on Narf»
ing and the management of Children.
" We recommend these letters to the perusal of
those to whom they are particularly addreflfed."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101 — Price, bound*
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—-50 cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—so csnts.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mif#
More's Eflays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice,Marchionefs of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha*
pone on command ot Temper, More's Fables foe
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's Hiflory of New-York. Pi ice a dol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
lie, 1.1.d. profeiTor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Prictf
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 6g, p. 628) fay : 44 We
have seen nothing ou these fubje&s more plain,
more peTfpicuous, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the University in Phi-*
ladelphia.
9. beauties of Poetry. Price four-fifths of «t
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two uoilars.
11. Ntcker'sTreaufeon the importanceof Re«
ligioiisOpinions.—Prioc four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 8 hs of a dollar.
13. The Conllitutionsof the several United States,
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14- M'Fingal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul, i>rice half a dollar.
17 The Do way Trantlalion of the Vulgate Bi
blr*, in quarto—- Pi ice,elegantly bound and lctlei«*
ed, 50/2—plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vadc Mecuna—Price a
quarter dollar.
ig. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Chriflian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a thir4
•>f a dollar.
23. Sde6l Poems, chieily American-—Price 9
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large assortment i»f
Books, EuYopean es Well as American editions,
which he .will difpole of on the most reasonable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, mjy depend upon being supplied in
the most fatisfactory manntr. A liberal allowance
to fucli as purchaTe quantities lor public libraries
or to {ell ag. in.
PLANS
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOSSOy, CAREY, YOUNG, & CKUKSHANK
r
R E Y,