A NAHON4L PAPER, PUBLISHER WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH.STREET, PHI LADE J. PHIA
[No. 82 of Vol. IV.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, March I.
in committee of the whole, Mr. Muhlenberg
' jn the chair, on the 3d, 4th, sth, 6th, 7th,
and Bth resolutions, refpefting the olfitia!
jarcduft of the Secretary of the Trealiiry,
far which fee 6azette of Wedneldav h.ft.
MR. B»Rn wp L ,i.
BEFORE J proceed to discuss the j
observations which yesterday fell
-from the gentleman who introduced the
resolutions now before us, I cannot ie
frain from faying, that I am extiemely
happy, that in palling through the medi
um of that gentleman's examination, this
fubjeft has changed its hue from the foul
of peculation to the milder colouring
(tain illegal exercise of discretion and a
want of politeoefs in the Secretary of the
Treafttry. 1 fed happy hecaufe I always
am so when any man chaTged with guilt
can acquit himfelf; and the mote so
now, when a man in a high responsible
office, and high in the estimation of his
countrymen, can reduce a charge from a
.quality calculated to have excited an alarm
even in Pandemonium to such a shape as I
fancy will scarce f-rve to fatisfy the un
common curiosity which it appears to have
excited. As I have never been in the ha
bit of taking notes, I (hall depend upon
memory in answering the gentleman from
Virginia ; although I imagine as that gen
tleman usually (ticks very close in his
point, whatever it may be, that in pursu
ing his charges I (hall substantially an
swer his arguments. In commenting up
on the two tirlt resolutions to which I am
by order confined, I (hall consider in the
firft inltance, what regards the tight of
drawing monsy into tilia country—the j
gentleman appears not to have confidcred
the law properly, for tkere cannot be a
doubt that the President had a right to
make what arrangements he pleated in
order to attain what he might consider a
proper modification of the debt due by
thp United States abroad ; he might have
borrowed the money here or have paid
here; he might have borrowed the mo
ney in England, or wherever he thought
lit. I will a(k the gentleman by what pre
cise authority he borrowed the money in
Amlterdamand Antwerp, and paid it in
Paris ; certainly by none, but that discre
tion which has been depended upon to
modify the debt in the manner most pro
ductive to the interest of the United
States, I take it then for granted, Mr.
Chairman, that th; right of the President
to draw the money bqrro\ved here, or to
fend it any where must be conceded : The
question will then arise, whether the Se
cretary of the treasury had a right to do
this cir no, and whether thU-iias not been
done without, nay, againlt the in(l ructions
of the President. I really consider this
83 one of the mod extraordinary cases
that I have ever known exhibited. Let
us cpniidev its form, a highly important
wuftof no ltffer import than the discreti
onary use of 14,000,000 of dollars is pla
ced in the President of the United States.
jl,e by a general commifiion and by spe
cial instructions, deputes his power to the
Secretary of the treasury, dating that he
is to conform to tbefe and whatever in
tuitions he might from time to time
give him. Let any man seriously examine
thelis powers, and 1 am of opinion that the
Secretary under these had aright todraip
if he thought proper, unless inttrinfted to
the contrary : For the President conveys
a cempleat power to modify the debt,pro
vided that it (hall be with all convenient
dispatch applied to pay the principal and
interest <3ue to France } for where the
payments are to be made are certainly left
to the Secretary. If this has not been
exercised advantageously thib is another
circumltance which the gentleman him
felf has not questioned. But fays the get»-
tleman, the Secretary under these instruc
tions had no special authority to draw,
notwithftciriding which he began to draw
ip 1790* 1"d has continued to diaw ax
Wednesday, March 15, 1793.
different times into the cnor
moui sum of 3,000,000 of drtllats, and
therefore he mntt have <J<*ne this without,
nay, again ft the inilm&ions of the Pieil
detK> who it is presumed having' delegat
ed this great trufthas newer for three years
inquired into the performance of it.
j Can this be the inference of common
ienfe—can this ixe the inference of the ex
perience which we have had of the Presi
dent, one of the prominent features of
whose character always has been an induf
iry to wvelligate particulars, as remarka
ble as his sagacity :o frame generals. If
then tnfttafticms,have not been given or
have been exceeded, was it neceifcfy for
11s to come in aid of the Prefideut, he who
by ow law has the power which we our
tetoes cannot exercise of removing any of
the executive officers at pleasure ; it cer
tainly cannot be neceffaty, for as this offi
cer continues to ast, wa must conclude,
that he has either a£ted by iriiuuiflioHs,
or in. fiich manner as to have given fatis
faition to his principal without them.—
Really, Mr. Chairman, I cannot fcilt be
lieve that if suspicion had not led thE'gen
tleman from Virginia astray, ths ufijal
correftnffs of his underltartding would
have prevented him from pursuing such an
ignifs futuus 33 this.
Thus Sir I think I have ftiewn that the
President of the United States certainly
had the authority to draw the furos t>m
rowed here, and that both under his co>m
miffion and his inftru&ions given, and in
evitably implied, the Secretary had also
this power, to do this. I (hall therefore
now proceed to a more special confidera
tioo of the firtt charge, that the Secreta
ry has violated the law in applying a por
tion of the principal borrowed to the pay
ment oF the TnterelE railing due upon that
principal, which was not authoiifed by
law.
Before I proceed, Mr. Chairman, I
would wish to remark, that whilll I consi
der no principle in legislation more cor
re&, than that no money (hall be drawn
from the Treasury but under appropria
tions by law ; yet I consider both as itn
pra&ible and mischievous the doctrine,
that the money arising from a special tax
(hall in no instance be used for any other
than that special purpose for which the
the Aims vaifed ought rather to be <;onii
deted as an aggregate fund applicable to
aggregate purposes, and indeed if a rigid
adherence 10 the precise letter of the law
is neceflary there. has been no occasion to
go abroad to feerch for violations; for
our government at home has been able to
atS only by this violation. Itis wcllknown
that the duties of impost and tonnage are
appropriated si.-si to produce the sum of
600,000 dollars for the civil lift, then to
pay the interest of the foreign debt and so
pn ; so that by q. rigid observance of this
law the secretary must have firft colle&ed
the 600,000 into the public coffers and
then a sum fufficient to pay the interest
of the foreign debt, a process which only
requires Hating to ihew its absurdity and
which must neverthelef9 have been connec
ted with a minute conltruAion of the law.
Indeed, Mr. Chairman, if theadls of com
mon life bear any analogy with public
management, which I believe, what could
be considered as being more extraordina
ry than that an individual (hould appro
priate the proceeds of one farm to pur
chase bread, of another drink, and to de
clare in the face of contingencies, that
happen what may, he would llarve (hould
the breed crop fail, rather than use the
surplus of that appropriated to purchase
drink, for its purchase. But to return,
what is this charge, a sum of money was
due abroad for the interest of 1791 and
1792, to be paid out of the domeltic re
venues of 179 1 and 1792; the United
States had an offer to make a payment in
part of what was due France, for which
money had been borrowed and wa9 alrea
dy on hand abroad, in a supply of provi
sions from here to the Island of St. Do
mingo, tbefrcretary therefore, aod doubt
325
l(:f» with the corffent orfthe Prefjdetit, in
stead of transmitting either bills or money
from this country to Fiance, 111 order to
pay the interest due there, and bringing
the money borrowed to pay the French
debt into this country, in order to f jnifh
supplies for St. Doming®, has committed
the great crime of diredting the money
borrowed and already upon the spot to be
applied to the payment of the interest due,
a-.d h.13 taken the sams applicable to the
payments of that interest which was al
ready here and made u£e of it to pay the
debt due to France in the produce of the
United States. So that although appa
rently a portion of the principal bojrow
ei bus been applied to pay an interest due,
yet in reality its capacity to be thus used
arose from its constituting in thiu country
an equivalent fuin applicable, and which
ha» been applied to pay off the princrpal
of the French debt, the object fur which
the money vva.s furrowed. Let candour
iuyeftigate this tranfaftion and fare I am
its deductions will be direAiy the contra
ry of a charge of crimination, I (hall con
clude with cbferving, that I (hould have
proceeded to examine the other reloluti
ons which I conlider cs weak as those I
have made fhorl comments upon, were I
not retrained by the rules of the houfc.
But this I will venture to fay, that they
will be proved unfounded in their investi
gation, and will merit the witty obfetva
tipft of a celebrated wi iter, that though
ihcy rose like a rocket, they will fall like
the stick.
Mr. Findley next rose and exprefled
l/imfclf nearly at, follows:
Mr. Chairman, being strongly impref
;cd with the importance of oiw time which
is now lo near an end, though I had the
fcOnunr of fcumidiug thtr rcfeintic»»j-1-
took no part in the debates of yelterday ;
nor will I now detain you with replies to
many of the arguments which have been
offered againll the resolution now under
dUctiflior).
Upon one argument, frequently intro
ducetl by the gentleman lad up, viz. the
greatness of the Secretary's ehara&er, See.
I will only make a Tingle remark ; there
ia no chara&cr officially known in the ex
ecutive departments of this government
who merits pre-eminence, or to whom a
degree of greatness can be aferibed, but
in proportion to his prompt execution of
the laws and the attention with which he
dilcharges the duties of his office. From
this rule the President himfelf is not ex
empted, much less a subordinate Secreta
, rjr» B'hofe appointment is. during pleasure,
and the duties assigned him of a changea
ble and temporary nature.
But to come to the rtfo'ution before
W»; the firit enquiries chat offer them
fcives arc, whether the money in question
was appropriated to special and diftindi
puipofes? I>id the Secietaiy of the trea
sury apply the money to other life* than
the law dire died ?
in answer to the firft it is only necessa
ry to advert to the law authorising the
loans. The law authorising the twelve
million loan, appropriates whatever amount
may be borrowed foMy to the payment of
debts then due to France and Holland.
The. law authorising the two- million
loan directs the application thereof to the
redemption of the domestic debt, in aid of
about dollars arifiug from the reve
nue previous to the firftof January.
These appropriations were precise, dif
tiniS ami unconditional, with refpedt to
the ufeß no room was left for the exercise
of discretion ; the will of ihs legiilature
was- esprefs aud clearly defigtied, it left
no rouin for evalion nor any excuft for
miftakc ; nor did the President transfer to
the Secretary any other authority or in
duction than what the law exptefied.
But the gentleman from South-Caro
lina fay», that preemption is, thasttli
the President did give other inftru&ions
tha* lie ha* that in this
cafe pcefumption (hould be admitted as
coftclufivc testimony ; aud'that the Secre
[Whole No. 404.
tary nor the PreficJent are not obliged ti»
communicate theinllrttclion or authorise*
to 11s.
The gentleman is » lawyer, I will ap
peal to himfelf, I will appeal to ail the
profeffi jHBI members on the floor, whe
ther presumption can be admitted as proof
where in the nature of the c»fe pofttive
tsfiimony can be procured.
Surely in courts of justice pufitire fef.
timony is always required, and prefurap
tive is rarely admitted ; but in this cafe
the presumptive is by the gentleman set
in oppofitiun to the positive. However
this is not the cafe in fa£h The President
did give cortimiffion and inftru&ions, and
these arc fully communicated to us. If ha
conceived irtt had no right to demand
them, he would have told U9 so j if he
had kept any part of them back, he would
have informed us, and nffijxoed his reason»
or doing so. I prefnme that the President
has a&ed the part of a canrli i honest man $
the gentleman picfumes the revtfrfe,
fuggt'ftion that this honfe, which has the
exclusive right of originating the appro
priation of money, has no tigh( to be in
formed of th< application of it, is so no
vel and extraordinary, so inconfrllent with
propriety and good government, that it
requires no reply.
Did the Secretary apply the money
borrowed in Europe agreeably to the le
gal appropriations of the Prescient? No he
did not, though some of the gentlemen
do not acknowledge this ; yet the Secre
tary has clearly acknowledged it himfeif,
and has filled his reports with laboured
and ingenious apologies for so doing ; he
has fuggelled a variety of motives, and
taken, infinite liberty to charm (is
with the mighty public advantages re
fulling from hie doing so. He acknow
ledges having drawn to this country and
applied in Europe to uses for which other
monies were appropriated, jmillfons of dol
lars ; out of this he has paid upwards of
400,000 dolls, of the French debt to St.
Domingo. I did not complain of paying
the interest due in Europe out of the mo
ney obtained there : The gentlemen ap
ply the force of their arguments with
great attention to support or apologize:
for this part of the Secretary's conduit,
as if against this only the charge in the re
folutton lay. But we do not object to ap
plying that money- in Holland, which
ought to have been brought here, if the
money which according to the appropria
tion should have gone to Holland had
been put to the life here for which the o
ther was intended, a simple eschange of
money for the purpose of eonveniency Se
(Bconomy ii properly one of these cases to
which ministerial discretion may solely be
extended ; but the qneftiort is, whether
the money has been replaced. The amount
of moiroy has not been applied-to the uses
intended, confeqjiently the appropriation
has been, disregarded. It is acknowfed'g.
Ed that though there were upwards of
1,300,000 dolls, of the d'omeflic (inking
fund, and upwards of 2,300,000 dbllan
drawn from Europe, be-fides the monies
applied to the relief of St. Domingo, and
yet when these enquiries began, there was
not 1,000,000 dollars applied to the re
demption of the public debt, and even ytt
the whole of the domestic appropriation
has not been applied to the finking fund,
notwithstanding that the public debt now
is and has for sometime been under par.
We have it on record, that the Secretary
Bever informed the commissioners of
draughts He made on Europe, although
the fund was exclufivcly to be at their dif
pofftt.
However I will not detain the commit
tee with minute ftntements, they are not
neceflary ; the Secretaty has acknowledg
ed that he drew more money from Eli-,
rope than the l*w awthorifed him to do :
that he was influenced todo so by motives
not contemplated in the law, and had ei
ther applied it or drawn it fiom Europe
with the dtfign of applying it to uftj not
authorised, and that be hasbroken in up
on the fund appropriate u»-the dHcWjr*
J•f the French debt;' Indeed the" delay ot
information, the receiving it piecemeal,
the abundance ofreafonings and apologies,
when only ,simple an d plain statements
were required, renders a fcruuny of all
his calculations a work of time and l4bor ;
therefore, I have contented itayfelf with
the fa£ts that the Secretary acknowledges
and vindicates on the questionable ground
of policy. It remains to be enquired, had
the Secretary a right to depart from the
directions of the law in the execution of
it : could he, without a violation of the
law, divert the money from its appropriate
life to putpofes foreign to the intention of
the legislature ? He certainly could not.
The application of appropriation is the
molt sacred and important trnft the legis
lature can confer ; if they may be made
to bend to the will or proje&ing policy of
a financier, there is an end of all security
and confidence. When a legislature makes
an appropriation of a general fund to a
variety of uses, as has been done with re
fpe£t to the impost, tonnage, excise, See.
there is necefTarily a coufiderable degree
of discretion left with the executive, as far
as refpe&s preference to one or other of
the appropriate uses; but where the tno
ney is appropriated solely to a special pur
pose, as in the cafe of the loans, he who
executes the lsws has no degree of power
over the appropriation. There is ample
room indeed for discretion in many mate
rial circumflances refpefting thtm ; such
as the terms of contract,the times of draw
ing, the agents employed, &c. But to
assume or use a power of changing the
appropriation, is assuming a power to re
peal the law itlelf in its molt essential au
thority ; it is affirming that power ofdif
penling with the laws which produced the
late-revolution with Britain.
If the will of the minister may controul
and give another direction to the will of
the lcgiflature, the fovereigij legislative
authority is transferred from the reprefen
tat-ives of the people to the temporary mi
nister.
If we admit that the ministerial agent
is not refponlible for his conduct, nor fub
je£t to censure, because he is appointed,
and in this inflance authoiifed by the Pre
sident, we will introduce the long explod
ed do&rine of Charles I. of Britain,
which, brought ruin on the king and go
vernment. However, there is an eflential
difference, for in the cafe before us the
authority and inftruftions given by the
President were.-agreeable to the law, but
the conduct of the minister was contrary
to both.
If, as I have said, the application of
money to its appropriated uses is the most
sacred and impoitant trust which the le
gislature can confer, if the person dire&-
ed to apply the money applies it to what
use he pleases; he may by that means
command all the influence and all the
force of the government. I conclude, that
betraying that important trust partakes of
the nature of treason.
The question before us is not whether
the Secretary has applied to a good or a
bad use ; whether he, by departing from
the legal appropriation supported public
credit better, or made a more convenient
accommodation to what he or his friends
suppose to be the national interest ; the
constitution nor the laws have not consti
tuted him the judge of the national inter
est, nor submitted it to his wisdom to
prescribe thedegree of public credit which
the nation, ought to possess. The public
credit, and other national interests, ought
to be no other than the legislature wills it*
to be ; and ought only to be supported
by the means and in the manner thereby
prescribed. This is the voice of the con
ftitutron, the voice of the law, and the
voice of reason. The President and both
branches of the Legislature being the real
as well as the legal representativeS of the
people it is reasonable that they should be
the sole judges of their interest. When
this House repeatedly called for informa
tion from the Secretsry, they did not call
for political essays, nor laboured apologies,
they did not constitute him the judge or
the inftru&or of the legislature ; they car
ed nothing about his variety of motives,
nor extensive and felf-important plans,
these he might have reserved to embelilh
a system of finance, when he would be a
gain called upon to report to the House ;
they only required an account of his stew
ardship. It was time enough to make a
pologies when he was blamed. Prefacing
his statements with apologies, and being
irritated at enquiries, and artfully evading
so many calls for information, discovered
a corifcioufnefs of blame.
However, I will admit that an execu
tive officer, prefied by fome'urgent arul ;
unexpe&ed neceflity, may be induced to.
depart from the authorized path of duty,
and have great merit in so doing. This
may be the cafe with a general of an a*tny
or an admiral of a fleet; and, though mor£
rarely, even with a financier. But in such
immeigency, the officer so acting will
embrace the earliest opportunity to ex
plain the matter and obtain a juitification
whilst the recent feeling*, arising from the
occasion, advocates his cause in the pub
lic mind.
Has the Secretary done so in the pre
sent inltance ? No, his conduct has been
the verv reverse. Notwithstanding repeat
ed and explicit calls, both the latt felfion
and the present, the extent of these tranf
a&ions was concealed. A bill pafled this
Houfeauthoriling another lean of 800,000
dollars. A second bill was urged in an un
precedented manner, for a loan of 2,000-
000 dollars, and though this was a favor
ite bill with the minister, the very enqui
ry after this information induced his
friends to (hrink from the business and de
sert the object about which they had dis
covered so much solicitude.
But when the disclosure is made, does
there appear any urgent neceflity tt) jufti
fy the measure ? No, there Was none ex
cept whatexiftedin theunauthorifed plans
of the financier. He informs us, that he
thought it necessary to have always 5 or
600,000 dollars at his commnad. I a/k
what law authorised him to think
did the legislature think this necessary ?
No. Did he ever state the neceflity to
the legislature ? No, he did not, and we
know he has never been backward in re
commending revenue systems or in con
triving uses for revenue. Suppofmg a
sudden neceflity for money, arising from
a disappointment of some remittance, —
where was the boasted aid of the bank,
which was to have adminifteted aid in all
sudden immergencies ? Could not bills
have been fold for cash when the neceflity
pressed, or could not a temporary loan
have been procured from any of the
banks f Certainly they could; loans wtte
obtained at the bank when no neceflity re
quired such aid, and when the public mo
ney to a much greater amount was depo
sited with the bank. In (hort, no neceffi-'-
ty of state purposes, authorised by the le
gislature, existed. If there was a necefli
ty at all, it mud have arisen from another
quarter, moll probably from the bank it
felf and its branche»|^^^^^^^^^^^^
A key to this fuggtftion may be _dis
covered from a comparison of the times
of drawing and the situation of the bank
at such times.
[ Here Mr. Findley was called to ot
der, upon the ground of his arguments
not being confined to the resolution be
fore the committee. He alledged his ar
guments applied ftri&ly to the charges of
violating Uie law contained in the resolu
tion ; but as a further opportunity of ap
plying the arguments arising from necessi
ty and discretion would be given, when a
subsequent resolution was brought before
the committee, he would pass it now-with r
a very few remarks.]
He said the exercise of the power as
sumed by the Secretary was inconsistent
with that public confidence upon which
alone the government was founded ; that
it was inconsistent with public fafety and
a government of laws ; that the Secretary
seemed to take the whole government
upon his fhaulders, and to consider all the
great interests thereof to be committed to ,
his providence. His reports spoke the
language of a Frederick of Pruflia, or
some other despotic tyrant, who had all
the power vested in himfelf; not the lan
guage of a dependent Secretary, under "a
free and well-ordered government.
Mr. Lawrance contended that the interest
of the monies borrowed was not paid out of
the principal of the loan, as.set forth in the
charge of the resolution before tb« committee. .
If gentlemen would attend 10 the history of
the tranfaftion, they would find this ftri&ly
true. This interest was paid out of the mo
nies borrowed fbr the reduction of the public
debt, and not out of thole intended to pay the
French, and the funds appropriated for the
payment of that interest were here, to replace
the former and be applied as those were ap
propriated. He refetred to the President's
speeches at the commencement of the twb>
I ift sessions, to (hew that the loan was obtain
ed under the joint authority of both acts ; and
adverted totheaft of Congrefs,in consequence
et' a doubt suggested by the Secretary, ex
plaining that the monies firft obtained might
be considered as borrowed under the ast au
thorising the 2,000,900 loan. Having (hewn
the firft charge in the resolution to be unfound
ed, he turned to the second.
The Secretary is accused of drawing njo-
326
Mies'to this country without iftftrtifHutis !n
I'thtt trih&Aion,-fe (kid, the President inuft
be ctfnfidered as principal and the Secretary
tfre agent, or the Secretary molt be looked
uport as the principal. If the President is the
principal, and he be authorized to obtai- the
loan*,'!!'! soon as the tiioney is obtained, it na
turally falls under the di reft ion of the tinan
c er; tyit if it be contended that thePrelident
wa* to have applied the monies as well as to
' borrow them, then we have nothing to do
with the agent; that agent is accountable to
his principal, and as this principal is not called
to an account by the legislature for any im
proper exercise of dilcietion, he must be con
iidered as having acted ftriftly within the law.
If the Secretary is considered as the principal
(and by a drift attention to the law, he believ
ed, it would be found so, for the President ii
fc by itauthorifed to borrow, and it is not ex
prefled who (hall apply the money) then it
was not one of the duties of the Secretary to
procure the inftruftions of the Prelident, be
ing the principal, and consequently. having the
direftionof the money borrowed, he is made
the judge of the time of drawing, hint to fulfil
i the intentions of the law. >Vas, the money,
he alked, to have, remained in the bands of
the banker in Europe ? Since it was borrowed
for the purchafeof the public debt, the sooner
it was drawn over the better, and the Secre
tary, having the direction of those monies,
could do it without consulting tne President.
He proceeded to Ihew, however, that the
Secretary had by no means aftedentirely with
out regard to the President's inftruftions. His
letter to Mr. Short, which had been read, ex
pressly fays, that he is waiting for inftruftions
from the President, and the only inftruftions
brought forward clearly lhewed that he did
not ast without them. On this occasion it
was not necelTary, he conceived, that all the
private communications between those two
officers (hould be brought forward ; indeed,
many of the inftruftions might have been
verbal, and of a private nature. Another
proof lies before the committee to strew that
the Secretary did not ast independent of in
ftruftions. A report of the Secretary men
tions—that some matters relative to the
loans were under the confederation of the
President of the United States. This docu
ment, he remarked, the gentlemen were in
pofleffion of when they framed the resolutions;
and it, in his opinion, left very little ground
indeed to suppose that the Secretary had acted
without inftruftions.
That officer, he contended, had ftriftly o
beyed the appropriation law; he had not drawn
one dollar that the ast did not warrant. On
the authority of one ast, the Secretary drew
two millions (by the bye he wished to remark,
that the Secretary is not the officer who actu
ally draws, who fells the bills, or who rec«ives
the*uoney ; this falls within the province of
the treasurer, the Secretary does not toueb
a penny of those monies) to apply to the re
duction of the public debt. The other ast,
he laid, gave the Prefidftnt power to draw
every dollar of the loan it established, if he
thought fit, if those who were to receive the
money wilhed to be paid here. Will the re
mittance which afforded so seasonable a relief
to St. Domingo, be found fault with? l( this
• mode of paying was within the authority veil
ed in the President, surely the power of draw
ing must have accompanied it. He concluded
by observing, that he had stated his ideas on
the fubjeft in a hasty manner, under the im
| preffioß of want of time to go more fully into
the discussion.
[To be continued.J
United States.
IN SENATE, January 39, 1795.
The Committee to whom was referred
the Motions before the Senate, rela-
tive to the Measures ir Weights
of the United States, —report,
id. f I H HAT the ftaudard for the measures and
X weights of the United States be an
uniform cylindrical rod of Iron, of such length
as in the latitude of fortv-five degrees jn the level
of the ocean, an<s in an apartment of Uniform
temperature, (ball perform its vibrations in one
second of mean time f that the diameter of such
rod (Hall not be more than the hundred and
twentieth part of its length, nor the arc of its vi
brations more than, four degrees, and that the
said standard rod fliall be divided into four hun
dred and eighty-nine equal parts.
2d„ That the unit of measures of length (hall
be a foot, which (hall be equal in length to one
hundred parts of the aforefaid standard rod.
That sixty-six feet .(hall be a chain, and eighty
chains a mile. ,
3d. That measures of furface he made by
squares of the measures of length ; but in the
cafe of land the unit shaH be an acre, which (hall
contain forty-three thousand five hundred and
sixty fquarc feet.
4th. That the unit of the measures of capacity
fliall be a bushel, which shall contain one cubic
foot and a quarter of a cubic foot.
sth. That the unit of weights (hall be a pound,
which ftiall be equal in weight to iixteen thou
sand cubic cents of afoot of rain water, mca
fured and weighed in an apartment of uniform
temperature.
6th. That the onitsof the measures 8c weights
of the Uaited States {Hal 1 be divided mho cents
or hundredth parts, and where necessary into
mills or thousandth pans ; and in the cafe of
weights the mill (hall be divided into seven
grains.
E x Pl. AV aT -o N »f the REPORT of the Committee
of the Senate, to whom the Subject oj Weights
and Measures tvas referred
THE report Qf the "orrimittee is founded on
the principle t"hat a ror* winch vibrates seconds
in the latitude of foil ,-five degrees, isfifty.eight
inefic* and fixty-etght trifo4«cdths ef *
length; by dividing a rod ol that k«f a U ||o
four hundred and eighty-nin<?tqual pari*, o 'ne
hundred ot those par's will be equal lotwci*-
o\ the above mentioned inches, or ihe foot no*
in ufc. In this way a rod may be made a h„, u
dard, and if ihemealufes in use be lollo» fcccutuo
uncertain, it may be always refortrd to in auy
pait of the United States, by making due allow
•lice* according to the oi latitude.
The committee propose to make certain mea
sures and weights now in use, the units of the
measures and weights of ibe Untied States, that
the adoption of the fyltem may bt the uioteesif
to the community, as no difference will t|* c
place iit the contents of the units. It is alio pro
posed that the unitsbe di *«ed intoccn »
or hundredth parts ; this division wuuia make
the arithmetic necessary lor the corantmi p U r.
poses of life easy to every capacity, as the tour
simple rules would be fufficicnt, without tnc
compound methods; and as the divifion*of th«
units of the measures and weights would bctbo
fame with those of the unit of the money pt ac«
count, the fame species of arithmetical calcula
tion would take place, and the compulsion of
either would soon be easy and familiar. Bjrjhc
division of the units io'o cents, the denoniiQa.
tions of the measures and weights would be lc«*
in number, and those familiar to our ideas, ao4
the memory would be no longer Dunhened with
the perplexing multiples and diviftous of
present measures «nd weights. ' t
la the measures of length, it is proposed that
he foot, chain and mile should remain the fame
s those now tn use. The divifiou of the loot
nto cent?, will be convenient for workmen, a*
2untei's carpenter's rule, which is generally
ifed, is divided into cents, a# well as into
nches; so that the relative proportion between
hem may be easily afcert?ined. The chain it
he instrument gtnerally used in meafurmg dif- .
ances, and is found fiom experience to be the
moil convenient length for a&ual mensuration;
it is four of the prefe'nt rods or poles, twenty
two yards, or sixty-six feel ; and ten chains
make one of the present furloiig*r
In the measure of land, thea«.-re is> proposed
to be the fame as the present acre, auQ in mea
faring of land the chain is also used ; it is alrea
dy divided into hundredth parts, called links ;
chains and links multiplied by chains nd links,
give acres and decimals of an acre, which hasoc
cafioned the division of an acre into cents, to
prevail already in some of the dates, in ptefer
ence to roods ami perches.
In meafutesiof capacity, the bulhel is pro
posed to be a cubic foot and a quarter, or two
thousand one hundred and sixty cubic inches,
which is about a mean of the (everal bushels now
in use; fom« of the states having bulhels con
taining near fifteen cubic inches more, and o
thers near as much less,—it is the quantity pro
posed by the Secretary of State in his report oil'
measures and weights; his idea is also adopted -
of abolifliing the diftinflion between wet and
dry measures, of disregarding the Ate and Wine
gallons, and of having only one measure of OK
pacity. Hy dividing the bulhel into cents, an
easy reference may be made from the cents to
the different mc®ftirc»-of capacity now in use :
'1 Fjftj o>.uiu ta iUkfrc equal to th« halt bufbel, and
twenty-five cents to the peck.
In weights, the pound is proposed to be the
fame as the Avoirdupois pound, and the grain
the fame as the Troy grain ; by dividing the
pound into cents, the cents into tenths or mills,
and the mill into seven grains, a series is formed
which conne&s with exadlnefs the pound Avoir
dupois with the grain Troy. In weighing large
quantities the Avoirdupois series is used ; in
weighing valuable articles, as gold, silver or dia
monds, or small quantities as medicines, the
Troy series is used the two series may there
fore be tonne&ed so as to make but one Ipecies
of weights necefiary, without any inconveni
ence : T.he weights tor gold and filver,the tteel- .
yards, and the common iron weights, may con
tinue to be uied, and be adapted to the utw
series.
[The above fubjefi is referred t(rthe nextfejfion.j
LONDON, January 4-
The following is an exafl Tranjl Uionjrom a Speech,
made in the National Convention at Paris (on the
14th oj December, in a debate on the fubjeft of
fjlablijhing Public Schools for the Education of
Youth) by Citizen Dupont, a member of lon/ider a-
He weight.—And as the Dotfnnls contained m it
were received with unanimous applause, excep
from two or three of the clergy, it may Jairly be
considered «> In exposition of the crttd of thai in
lightened dumbly—Tranjlated from Le Mooi
teur, of Sunday, the 16th of Deitnibtr, 1 79 2 "
WHAT ! Thrones are overturned 1 Seep
tres broken! Kings expire ! and yet the Al
tars of God remain ! (here there " * mu ™°'
from Tome members ; and the Abbe Ichon
demands, that the person fpeakmg may »
called to order.) Tyrants, in outragetona-,
ture, continue to bum an impious mcenle: on
those alms ! (Some murmurs ajife, buc tney
are loft in the applauses from the majority ot
the Aflembly.) The thrones thathave been
versed, have left these altars naked, un<up
ported, and tottering. A single rt/tont to
enlightened reason will now be luffic
make them disappear. And if J"
under obligations tQ the French Kings
thefirftof thafe benefits, the fall of Kmgs,
can it be doubted, but that the Fren
pie now Sovereign, will be w.fe eno..^,
like manner, t« overthrow those
those idols, to which those Kings have hitberto
made them fubjeft > Nature *'*L
ought to be the Gods ot men . The
Gods ! (Here the Abbe Audrein cried ♦
M There's no bearing this and rulhe
of the Aflembly. A great laugh .) Mmi »
Nature—cultivate Reason. —And you, S
tors, if vou desire that the Frenci p
should bs happy—make haste to P ro P a ß
these principles, and to teach them 1 J
primary schools, instead of those 3 ,
principles which have hitherto bee-n
The tyranny of kings was confined to ffll
their people milerable in this life » . ,
other tyrants, the Priests, extend their
minions into another; of which they av
other idea than of eftrr.al punishments .tfoftrine which f»r*e men liJive hitherto had.
the good nature to believe. But the moment
of the catastrophe is come—all these preju
dices must fall at the sams time—We must de
froythem, or they mil defray us—For myfelf !
I honestly avow to the Convention—l am an,
Atkeill '* (Here there is some noil'e and tu
riu|t but a great number of members cried
out' what is that to us ! you are an honest
man.') But / defy a single individual, amongst
the twenty-four millions of Frenchmen, to
make against me any well grounded reproach.
I doubt whether the Christians, or the Ca
tholics, of which the last speaker, and those
of his opinion, have been talking to us, can
jnake the fame«challenge—(Great applauses.)
There is another consideration—Paris has
gr ear lofles. —It lias been deprived of the
commerce of luxury ; of that factitious splen
dor which found at Courts, and invited
fttangers hither.—Well ! We must repair
these loiTes. —Let me then represent to you
the times, that are fact approaching, when our
Philosophers, whose names are celebrated
throughout Europe, Petion, Syeyes, Condor
cet and others—surrounded in our Pantheon,
as the Greek Philosophers were at Athens,
w(th a crowd of disciples coming from all
parts ofEurope, walking like the Peripatetics,
aijil reaching—this Man, the system of the
XJniverfe, and developing the progress of all
human knowledge ; that perfeftioning in the
Social fyltem, and (liewing in our degree of
the 17rb of June, 1789, the feed of the in
furrettion of the 14th of July, and the loth
of r 4uguft, and of all those infurreftlons which
are spreading with fnch rapidity throughout
Europe —fi> that these young strangers, on
their return to theii- refpeftive countries,
may spread the fame lights and may operate,
for the happiness of mankind, iimilar revolu
tions throiighout the whole.
(Numbfcrtefs applauses arofc, almost through
eut the while aflembly—and in the galleries.)
* Privled " Deiji" in the American Daily Ai
vertifer oj Fiidayiafl, hat cor reded in the paper of
Monday following.
For the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fen no,
THE enclosed little impromptu on rending
the several motions made against Mr.
Hamilton, will expreJ's the sentiments of ma
ny of your readers, and by that redeem Irom
censure, the rusticity of the verse. I am no
politician, but I feel that I am a,patriot, and
glory in that sensation ; and I amveryforry
to find that there are. those among us, that
Cannot oe fatisfied-with the most perfect form
of government upon earth, and the most suit
ed to the genius of the pe6pie*-—Why Ihould
we not be grateful to the wife Arbiter of na
tions, and enjoy the blessings he bellows; can
an innovation be either honorable or profit
able; I think not —for we are the' most blest
of iny nation on the
As the adcufatibftsbrougtir agalrrft Wrr Ha
milton do not appear to be founded in fa&s,
my plain judgment leads me to draw this con
clusion— that they must arise from a fpirittoo
prevalent iu human nature, to perplex and
eml>arrafs the efFect of those talents we cannot
emulate—or that some of desperate fortunes,
ehufe to make confufion, that in the bustle
they may feat themselves in the chair j and I
hayfc the pleasure to find all my neighbours
sue of the fame sentiments. Yours, &rc.
Niw-Jcrfey, Mdrch 12, 1793*
HAVE you not fern in faffron dreft, the Sun
Burlt thro* the crvftal portals of the day ;
While fogs, and blights, fact from his presence
run—
And million* breathe but in his genial ray :
When soon an angry-cloud the sky,
And darkncfs tinges, every blooiniflg tccne-—
The promis'd blessings of tjie morning fly,
And thunder hoaifly murmurs o'er the plain.
Byt Phoebus quite unmov'd It renely.glides
Behind the vapour of night's ebon throtie,
Hurls it in air, and (hews that he presides,
With splendor equal to protest his own.
So. have. I seen in our new hemisphere,
A star refulgent rise—whose potent ray
Pierc'd thro* the dread opaque that hover'd near,
And gave exiftcnce to our infant day.
So have I seen a man of honor flitne,
And with' nice re&itude b'egin his race ; ■
Stringing each nerve with energy divine,
To-fave his country from the foul disgrace
Of blasted credit, and theJhades of wealth —■
Of broken faith, and infamy supreme ;
Restoring (Irength, and confidence, and health,
To bankrupt funds, ihat were an empty name.
When vile intrigue, with all her little art,
And her dire nest of horn«ts, soon prepar'd
To vex the honest veteran to the heart—
And by surprize to throw him off his guard.
But fair Integrity repuls'd the foe,
And soon dilTolv'd the spells they had begun ;
While well-earn'd fame with truths celestial
glow. ,
Rtflefts new lustre on «ur Hamilton.
EXTRACT.
u THAT I am by birth, or family better
than any others of my fellow creatures, is an
absurdity—but if uature has bestowed 011 me
favors that Ihe has withheld from others, or
given to others talents that she has denied to
jne, surely in the firft cafe, I pofTefs a fuperi
-ority over them, but in the last cafe, they over
me. This diftinftion is grounded in nature,
for in fact nature has created it; and when,
ever Ihe bellows superior talents on indivi
duals, and dire&s them to their proper object,
those individuals, thus favored, will in spite
of art, become superior to others, and not
only command but deserve greater refpejt.
To contend then for equality in an unlimit
ed sense, is to struggle against nature and to
deny the justice of Providence—A person
might aim oil as well attempt to eftablifb a
system of univeffjrfcepticifnv ; for until we
lose all confidence in the teitimony us our
senses, we cannot believe the doctrine. I' it
be really true thatperfeff equality does, or can
exist, then rewards and punifliments must
cease, and to talk of superior merit is to ul'e
words without meaning, for ptrfefl equality
does not admit of the fmalleftdiftinftion."
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES
RIGHTS OF MAN;
Oft, THE
TAXoN THE THEATRE,
THE Right l ! of Man,
Are all the plan,
Of this our new-made nation ;
For an example—
We shew a sample,
In our State-Legislation.
State cash to fob—
Behold a jobb,
For folks wtiom I shan't name, Sir j
The money gone,
The House not done—
Sure Tom is not to blame, Sir..
The walls are rais'd,
Tho' still unglaz'd,
Tbe roof lets in the rain ;
thousands more,.
They cry encore,
Or th,' builders work in vain.
In this fad cafe,
The cash to rail'e,
And " Rights of Man" to right, Sir,
Our rulers fnge,
* Say, Tax the Stage,
Five thousand Cents a night, Sir.
Philadelphia, March 15.
WAR DEPARTMENT
The following Promotions 3 Appointments
have been made in the Legion of tht United Stales,
during the Jecond fejjion of theJeCond Congre/s.
GENERAL STAFF.
Appointment}.
Thomas Pofev* of Virginia, Brigadier-Genera],
vice Rufus Putnam, resigned.
Michael Rudulph, Adjutaut and Infpe&or—
vice Winthrop Sargent, declined.
CAVALRY.
Rohctt Ms. Campbell, Cap!, vice Stake, refign'd.
WilJiam Aylett Lee, do. vice Rogers, do.
Solomon Van Renfelaer, Lieut, vice Davidfon.do.
James Taylor, do. vice Campbell, promoted.
Leonard Covington, do, vice Lee, ,do.
Appoirdmtvts.
George H. Dunn, Cornet, vice Renfelacr, dd.
Abraham Jones, do. vice Taylor do,
Daniit Torrey, do. vice Covington, dc^
John F. Hdmtramck, Lieut. Col. Commandant.
T.homas Doyle, Major, vice Call, deceased.
Thomas Hughes, do. vice Afhcton, resigned.
Cornelius R. Sedam, Capt. vice Montfort, killed.
John JefFers, do. vice Denny, refigtied.
Abner Prior, do.
Asa Hardhorne, do. vice M'Pherfon, do.
Jacob Melcher, do. vice Doyle, promoted.
Rofs Bird, Lieutenant* vice Sedam, do.
Hastings Marks, do* vice Jeffers, do..
Wm. H. Harrifon,do. vice Prior, do.
Robert Hunter, do. vice Hartmorne, do.
Lewis Bond, do. vice Melchcr, do.
John Whistler, do.
SECOND SUR-LEGION.
David Strong, Lieut. Col. Commandant.
Thomas Hunt, Major vice Hamtramck, prom.
John Mills, do. vice Strong, do.
John H. Buell, do.
Cornehu* Lyman, Captain, vice Piatt,cadiiered.
Richard S« Howe, do. vice Hughes, prom.
Richard H. Greaton,do. vice Hunt, do.
Ruffel Biflell do. vice Mills, do.
Joseph Dickinfon, do. vice Buell* do
Edward Miller, do. vice Cafs, do.
Edward D. Turner, Lieut, vice Sohier, deceased.
Theodore Sedgwick, do. vice Lyman, prom.
John Sullivan, do. vice Howe, do.
Andrew Marfchalk, do. vice Greaton, do.
William Marts, do. vice Biflell, do.
John Lowrey, do. vice Dickinfon, do.
Andrew M'Clary, do. vice Miller, do.
THIRD SUB-LECION.
Jonathan Cafs, Major, vice Clark, promoted.
Aaron Gregg, Lieut, vice Cummins, do.
John Polhetnus, do, vice Cochran* resigned.
John Steele, do. vice Gotigh, declined.
fourth sub-legion.
John Clark, Ltfcutenant-Colond Commandant.
Benjamin Price, Captain, vice Wells, deceased.
Henry De Butts, do. vice Stephenfon,.refigiv:d.
William Diven, Lieut, vice Price, promoted.
Peter Grayfon, do, vice De Butts, dp.
surgeons' mates,
Appointment'
ohn Hamitl, Peanfylvanit.
Cbarles Watrouf, Connecticut.
Samuel Boyd, Prnnfylvania.
Elihu Lyman. Georgia.
The President of the United Stales, by vir
tue of the powers veiled in him by law, has
elUblilhed the following Organization of the
Troops of tbe United States.
The coromiflioned Officers hereinafter desig
nated, together with the oori-cnmmiUioned
Officers, Musicians, and Privates, authorised by
law, amounting to 5,1 £0, are to be denominated
The Legion of the United States,
which it to be divided into' 4 Sub-Legions.
The Legionary Staff.
1 Major General, or Legionary General—
a AidsdeCamo, t Brigadiers General, 2 Aids
d* Camp, 1 Adjutant and Infpe&or, 1 Major
Commandant ol cavalry, 1 Major Commandant
of artillery, 1 Quarter M.fter, 1 Deputy Quar
ter Mister, 1 Suigeon, i Chaplain.
327
The Sub -Legion
£ach Sub-Legion to consist of the OflF.ce??
hereinafter ri3rned, and 1280 non-comniiflioned
Officers* Muhcians and Privates, —to wff,
Field.
1 Lieutenant Colonel Commandant.
Staff.
1 Sob Legionary Major and Infpe&or, 1
Quarter M after, 1 Surgeon.
One Troop of Dragoons, conjijlinz of
I Captain, 1 Lieutenant, 1 Cornet, 6
Sferjeauts, 6 Corporals, 1 Farrier, I Saddler,
I Trumpeter, 65 Dragoons.
One Company oj Artillery, to confijl of
* Captain, 2 Lieutenants, 4, Serjeants, 4
Corporals, 2 Music, Privates, including
ten artificers.
Ttvo Battalions of infantry, and 1 Battalion of Ri m
Jlemeny each conjtjling of
I Major, 1 Adjutant, I Quarter mailer, 1
Surgeon's mate, i SerjeanJ major, 1 Quarter
master Serjeant, I Senior Mulician.—And
Four Companies, each to covfi/l of
I Captain, I Lieutenant, I Ensign, 6 Ser
jeants, 6 Corporal, 2 Music, 8r Privates.
N..8- The Rijle Companies, one Bugler and eighty
ttuo privatei.
One troop Dragoons
Or* company Artillery
F<Mf companies Rifle—9s each
Eight do. Infantry do.
The Legion of the United States J123
Non-commissioned, Musicians and Privates.
Sntimary Vitro of the Central, Field, Commissioned
and Stajf Officers, of the Legion if the United
States.
General Staff.
.1 Major General, or Legionary General,
2 Brigadiers General, 1 Quarter
Deputy Quarter Matter, I Surgeon,
!':(sap\ain. '•
Field.
4 Lieutenant Colonels Commandant, 14 Ma
jors.
Commissioned.
5# Captains, 60 Lieutenants, 48 Ensigns,
4 Cprnets.
Medical Staff.
4 Surgeons, I 2 Surgeon's Mates, 6 Sur
geons Mates, for garrison duty and extra fer
viee.
•N. B. The Aids de Camp are included in
tbe number of Commissioned Officers.
COMMUNICATiONS.
Funding the public debt is a great crime,
and those who make a noise about it, ofcourfe
would have us think they have a great deal
of* merit by their hatred of the system. Sure
ly they reckon their own score of merits
fomswhat like bad accountants. Did the
party in Congress the mod opposed to the re
port oPthe Secretary of the Treafnry on the
public debt, oppose funding T They did not—
at least if they are to be believed. They
would have funded at fix per cent—they would
have funded in favor of original creditors.
Their newspaper trumpeters have ever since
held up the rights of the army and of the ori
ginal holders, and the merits of those who
would have preferred their claims to all others.
Yet these fame blusterers condemn the fund
ing system—What absurdity. They hate mo
nied systems, and mysteries, and jobs. They
are too pure to receive such foul ideas as
those of faith and public credit into theirin
fpirt=d minds—They would however have
paid more money and admitted more claims
thaq the majority in Congress agreed to—and
how was this to be done } by funding at fix
per cent. Perhaps some tell-tale will fay,
thijinconfiftency is apparent and not real.
We did not intend to fund nor pay a farthing
—it was only a means of baffling and defeat
ing the majority, and we came very near ac
pwnpfHhing our plan. This defence will be
allowed to explain the conduct of tbe oppof.
ersof the funding aft—But facts as they ap
pear without such explanation, lhew that the
pretended haters of funding systems, and 1110-
nied febemes, and mysteries, would have fund
ed the debt—ln doing so they would have
made the debt bigger by giving new certifi
cates to the officers and soldiers, and heavier
by voting an higher rate of interest.—Let the
people now discontented with the doings of
Congress, therefrtre, attend to facts and be
undec«ived. —What is done they think bad—
Their pretended friends would have made it
worse.
The party which diftingui(hes itfelf by an
opposition to the government of the ,United
States, is frequently calling the public atten
tion to the patriots of '7 J —and raodeftly ar
rogates to itfelf a species of merit, which all
the world is ready to acknowledge the allert
t>rs of their country's rights at that day were
justly entitled to. —A few particulars may
serve to fre -A (he striking contrast between
the 10., of anarchy, and those diftingtiiihed
friends of freedom—The latter wrote awainft,
and opposed a government, over which the
governed had little or no controul—but the
firmer abnfe and resist a government which is
the work of the people, whose basis is their
will, and which always, in all things and
throughout all its branches, is amenable to
that high tribunal. The wliigs of '7J, wrote
against a magistracy arbitrarily placed over
them; a inagiftracy which was in the gift of
a man 5000 miles diifont—and who, in most
instances, gave his appointments to needy de
pendants, who devoured our fubliance but
the fomenters of discord of the prel'ent day,
write against a firft magistrate, cteQed by the
people—A man whose personal talents and vir
tues vfc read in a whole life of illustrious and
well remembered services—A man whom we
have just lean a second time called to tbe most
83
63
38?
763
1280
4
Aggregate
futilime o'ffiw ifl the MniVeriW, fthe fu ft Ma*
E'ftracy in a great nation of rational freemen;
by the unanimous, conftitutiooel voiee of i>is
countr/.
Tae republicans of '75 fouglitfor a govern*
ment of their own choice—they have obtain
ed w'ilhes, and are happy—£»ut the cue-'
mies of our federal union depreciate their me
rits by faying, in eileft, that having overturn *,
ed one government, it never was their inten
tion tofet up another.
Those who Always hated and fill! oppose the
government, think it their duty, or at ieatt
their privilege to ft retch the truth, ro make
it detested and fu'fpefted. No faith is to be
kept with heretics, it fee ins—for the ling
long eloquence has been, Congreis are specu
lators—-the majority voted money into their
own pockets—The interests' of the people
were facrificed, the many to the sew—those..
who mult pay to those wjjo will receive
There was a corrupt underftanrfing betwctfu
Congress and the speculators—a partiality—
a favoritism. Too much v/as given to the
speculators-—the speculators—the speculators
—For that is the chorus of every ditty. But
their own words confound them. Always
trying to unravel and to undo, they often
change their means but never their object—•
Behold, on the business of the claim made on
Congress by the officers of the late army, the
party change their note*—Mi//tons were saved
by the Funding S\Jiem to the pubtic—which the public
has no jujl right t» hold, Let the officers or,d foldi
erSj the original holders, come in jor that saving.—•
Will not those who have been fnade uneasy by
the arts of a desperate faction, Hick a pin
there—Surely our fa&ion turn oftener than
ttye Vicar of Bray, for he only turned with
the times—But our turn-coats do not find the
times turning fact enough. However, they
are doing their utmost to give them a twirl.
There is an opinion that private vices are;
public benefits. We have gamblers wh»
preach up purity and felf denial in politics—
we have men who privately intrigue and
openly court the voters bo put them intw
place, and *vho tell us how deadly a poison an
office is to republican virtue. We have men
who laugh at religion, at confidence, at public
iaith, at the rights of| public and private cre
ditors—who would pull down pt ieft-craft and
government-craft, and all other craft except
that which ftiall lie them into place. Ac
cordingly more falfehoods have been printed
againftthe government than there were
plagues in Egypt. Now better men would
boggle at the work of blackballing men and
mealures. The work and the instruments to
carry it on are well adapted to each other
How lucky for our country that inasmuch as
we .hive this ugly jobb to do, we have men
raised up just fit to do it. 1
M. Genest, the new French Minister to the
United States, is expected in the ftiip Swan
wicjt, from Havrc-tie Grace.
Mr. Gerry is proposed, in a Boston paper,
as a Candidate for Govcivor of MaJJackufetts.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED*/ the PQRT ojPHILADELPHIA.
Ship Grange, Hutchinfon, Liverpool
Union, Blyth, Teneriffe
Brig La Marie Angelique, Emmit, Cette
Schr. Industry, Lewis, C. Francois
Richmond, Lampfon,
Cleopatfa, Williams, Charleston
Sloop Hope, Framills, Port-au-Prince
Susan, Mitchel, N. Carolina.
Friendlhip, Roach, ditto
PRICE OF STACKS.
6 per Cer.ts, 18/4
3 per Cents, 10J6
Deferred, 11/4 .
Full shares Bank U. S, 13 per cf-nt. prem
in the Insurance Company' 75
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
LyCurgus, and other valuable correfpondetitt
Jhall be attended to soon.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Resolved,
THAT any pcrfon residing in Europe, who
shall authorise the PreGdent, Dire&ors and
Company of the Bank of the United Slates, to
receive annuities, or Interest arifiug from the
public debt of the United States of America,
(Hall from time to time have authority to draw
on the said President, Dire&ors and Company,
to the amount of the monies by them received,
which drafts (hall be paid wi'.hout deduction
and free of expence—Or,
The President, Directors and Company, if re
qurfled, will remit the monies by them received
to any part of Europe, free of e*pence >nd with*
out deduction, in Bills of Exchange at their cur.
rent value, and at the rifle of the 'peifoo to whom
the fame (hall be remitted.
By the President and Direflors,
3 w JOHN KEAN, Cifhicr.
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BREED.
HE was imported from England in Novem
ber, feveutetn hundred and eighty-fix, and
is now (en years old ; lie is a bright bay, with &
blsze,fifteen hands one inch high, is wellform'd,
has a great deal of bone arid strength, and hts
a&ion equal to any horse. His colts arc well
approved of in the different parts of the Stat*
he has flood, of which any pcrfon inclined
to purchase can inform thcmfelve*.——— Enquire
of the Printer.
Fchrutry 18, 1793.
The pricc of this Gazette is Three Dollar t
per ka/J t» be paid at the tme afjkt*
fcribtng, \
Virginia-
ADVERTISEMENT.
fpt Th<jt ft'fini who kavt, r*iewe<l SiJJiirip-
Hin.tbnei fir thiCaifite, and theft * T J } ,n
arrtars far t Iti fame, art mtjl tantfly rtaaffiei /»
ui; paymetl It Ike Uttf at Jut* at pafiflt.
An Ordinance forfct'uring the punOual
Payment of the Alonit* due on the
Subscriptions to the Society for efta~
blijking Ufeful Manufactures.
WHEREAS doubts have heretofore arisen
with regard tb the power of the Society
to annex any penalties to the non-payment of the
instalments, agreeably to the terms of the fttb
fcriptions. And whereas the Legislature at their
lalk fe (lions. pitted a supplement to the original
iaw of incorporation, removing the said doubts,
and fullv authorizing the Dire&ors to pass any
ordinance they may think proper, to compel the
pun&ual payment of the said fubferiptions.
See. Be it or penned, then/on, by the Governor
and Directors of the Society for ejlMJhivg Ufeful
ManufufturtSy That if any fubferiber or hisafligns,
(hall neglett to pay the second payment of his,
her, or their refpeflive fubfcrtDtions, logether
•with the lawful interest arising thereon, either to
the calhier of the United Scales Bank Office of
Discount and Deposit, at New-York, the cafbier
of the Bank of New-York, the cafbier of the
Bank of the United States, in Philadelphia, of
John Bayard, Esq. in the city ot New-Brunf
wick, in the (late of New-Jersey, on or before
the thirteenth day of April next : That then and
in that cafe, all and every fhaie ot (hares of such
pei son or petfons so ncgle&ingto make such pay
ments as aforefaid, and the monies by them pte
vioufly paid, (ball he forfeited,and forever there
afit-r veiled in the said Directors, and their fnc
ceiTors, for the common benefit of the said So
ciety.
Sec. 2. Andbe itfurther or dainedby the authority
That if any fubferiber, or bis ailigns,
(hall neglect to pay the third payment of his, her
or iheir refpeflive fubferiptions, together with
the lawful interest arising thereon, on or before
the thirteenth day of May next. That then and
in that cafe all and every share 01 ihares of such
person or persons so negle&ing to make such
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by them
previously paid, shall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter veiled in the said Direttors, and their
facceffors* for the common benefit of the said
Society.
Sec. 3. And be itfurther ordained by the authority
efotejaid, That if any fubferiber, or Kis afligns,
mall neglect to pay the fourth payment of bis,
her,or theirrefpe&ive fubferiptions,on or before
the thirteenth day of July next, that then and in
that cafe, all and every (bare or (hares of such
person or persons, so neglecting to make such
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by them
previously paid, shall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter veiled in the said Directors, and their
successors, for the common benefit of the said
Society, NICHOLAS LOW, Governor.
' Passed at New - Ark, e oth February, 17 93.
(Countei fijjned j £L.ISJfcIA J&QUDIXOT,
Secretary pro tempore.
BE IT KNOWN, that the proportion of fpe-
which may be paid on the r.efpe&ive pay
ments of every original (bare, by such Stock
holders ai prefer paying a moiety of said shares
in specie. in lieu of deferred deb*»as follows:
Dols. Cis.
On the 13th of April, 1793* with in
terest from 13th July, 1792, 7
On the 13th of May, i793> * n
tercft from 13th January, 1793, 7
On the 13th of July, 1793, 8 09
Stockholders in the laid Society are hereby
notified, that I, the subscriber, am duly autho
rized to make the requisite indovfements upon
the certificates of shares which they may refpec
lively hold, and that books of transfer are open
ed at my office, in FVout-ftreet, New-York.
JLOW.
iawti3M.
Filrtury 2l> i 7 q».
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
ANUM RER of Lois in this City will be of
fered for fate at auction, by the Commis
sioners, 011 the 17th day of September next.—
One fourth part ot the purchase money is to be
staid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interest 00 the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Mrs.
JExtraft of an Ast of the General Assembly of
Maryland, roncernhig the Territory of Co-
lumbia, and the City ol Washington.
14 Be it ena&ed, That any foreigner may by
died or will, hereafter to he made. take and hold lands
toithin that part of theJaid Territory which lies with-
Hi this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi~
ztn of this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they zvere citizens
o/thii State : Provided, That no foreigner shall,
\n Virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen."
Jan. 19. tf
V O R SAL E,
£y the Subjcriber, at Walnut-Street Wharf\
BILL of EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediate ule, in pipes & quarter calks,
'T'ENERIFFE WINE, in pipes,
4. SHERRY \VINE» in quarter calks,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proof,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT*
XOPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Bali-# 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13-4 Inch GABLE, 120 fathoms long.
GEORGE MEADE.
Phi,'ad/If hie, Jan. 19,1793.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellfrs,
90BS0N, CAREY, YOUNG, & OII'KStJJXK.
War Department,
Januakv 28, 1793.
INFORM ATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
rhc sums to which thev are entitled for fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the *th day r>t March *793* will be paid on
the said dfy by th,e Com in thinners of the Loans
wtfhin the dates refpettivdy, lender tht: usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment O'.ufi be ac«
contpariicd by the following voucher*:
• lft. The Certificate given, by the rkate, (pacify
ing that the person pofieflinjtihe iarpe »s in U6l
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum u> which,
as such. he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Justices
of the county of in the ftatfr of and
made oath that he is,the fame A. to tfhom
the original certificate in hi* possession was giv
en, of which the following is a copy (jhe cer
tifitate given by the state to be rec&ed) That
he fcrved (regiment, corps or vefleljtt the
time he was difablecl, and that he now resides
in the and county of and has resided
«,here for the Jafl years, previous towhick
he resided in
In cafe an Invalidibould apply for pyyment
by an attorney, the said attorney, .befylesthe
certificate and oath before recited, inuft pfroduc<s
a special letier of attorney agreeable to tm fol
lowing form: 4
I, A. B. of countv of state of
do hereby conllitute and appoint C. P. of
my lawfii) attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension for fix months, as an Invalid
of the United States, from the 4th day of Sep
tember 1702, and ending the 4th day of March
1 793..
Signed and Sealed
in the Prepuce of
Acknow'edged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators
must be accompanicd with legal evideoce of
their refpe&ive offices, and also of the tiro« the
Invalid died, whose pcnfion they may claim.
By Command of the Prcfident
of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
By THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVID
DANIEL CASR&LL,
Esquires,
Commission ers appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, See. within the
City of WaJhiHgtorii for the reception of Con
gress, and for iheir permanent residence after
the year 1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City,
£0,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, arc 350,000 dollars,
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
1 Supei.b Hotel, with baths, )
out houfcs, &c.£cc. 10 toft J
1 Cafli Prize
i ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
sbo ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,p00 ditto
V6»737 Prizes
Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at kflfi jthe amount of the tick
ets will return to thp fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal jCity will gain its object .thereby,
in a magnificent building denned both for pub
lic and ptivate convenience.
Although some expence must necessarily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
Cotnmiflloners having agreed to present in re
turn a fufficient quantity of excellent free-ft one,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at something more than
par : In this important instance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered tocrfce
jortunate possessor of the ticket drawn aagainft
Jts number.—All the other prizes will be paid,
without deduflion, in one month after the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Washington, or
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
pth of Septembei next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, Cily
Trcafurer of Washington ; Thayer S3 Bartlet, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Gideon Denij'o ft, Sa
vannah > Meflfi s. James Wejl &'Co. BahitnoTe ;
Mr. Peter GUman, Boston; and at fuel) other
places as will be hereafter publifiied.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the best Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if prejented
on or tcjore the 10th of April next-, and a pre
ference will be given 10 the Artist for a Con.
ttaft, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ere£ied, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a.
back avenue to the Rabies, &c. Sections and
estimates of the egpenfe will be expe&ed
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars must be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the exprnfe intended for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
Wrck 6, 1793.
ep2m
328
50,000
?s>°PO
20,000
15,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10.000
£,000 are
-1,000
s°°
x 00
5°
2 5
to
10
10,000
20,0C0
130,0tt0
Dollais 350,000
advertisement.
NOTICE is hcr*l>y given, Th*t tbc Com
miflioncrs appointed by B'jard of
T>i|ftees of the Univeifity of North-Carolina,
will attend at the town of Hilllboxough, 011 the
isch, 19th and aoth days of April mxt, lot the
of receiving propofal® from fucn per
foos as may he difpoftd to undertake |hc Build
ings of the Univerhty.
FREDERICK HARGETT, Chairman.
TO be SOLD, on LEASED
ro* t|V(N OR TFN V IAI S,
THE FOLLOWING
HOUSES.
ONE on Walnui-ftieet, near Fourth-ctreet 4
23 feet front, has two parlours below, the
hont one 21J by feet, the baek parlour is
18 by 14$ feet. The front room up ftdiis is
by feet. There are five good chambers in
this house, besides the garret is divided inro
three rooms, in two of fhetn there are fire
places.
The other House is 27 fret upon Walnut
ftreetyand 52 feet upon 4th ftr*et; there are two
good parlours below, one of them 2,5 by 20 t-2
feet, the other 25 by 18 1-2 feet, and seven com
plete bed-chambers; besides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and arc
under tbe houses ; the iaigeft houfc has also a
house-keeper's room. It is intended there (hall
be a communication from both c»f these houses
to a neighbouring ice-boufe,fufficiently large to
supply 3 ,houses. Within 50 yards qf thele
houses, there will be compleat (table's and coach
houses, for both houses ; they will be finifbed
in the moll compleat manner, and the keys
to be delivered early in the summer.
On paying half the money cown (if fold) the
other half may be paid bv instalments, or the
whole may remain for years, paying jntereft
and giving fecurityon the premises.
For terms of sale or lease, apply to the Sub
scriber,
-GEORGfe MEADE.
Who has jor SALEy
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounces
fixtcen (hillings and fix-pence, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS, that will contain iwo
and a half and three and a half bufhcls.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1792,
Insurance Company.
A Ta g<ncral meeting (by adjournment.) of
xJL the Insurance Company of North- Amei ica,
on Wednesday the 16th instant,
It was Resolved,
THAT the Instalments which, according to
the Constitution, will become due on the fccond
Monday of July and January next, or either of
them, may be paid by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so payijpg
such inftalmcnt, or inftaiments, (hall receive a
proportionate (hare of the Dividend* thereafter
to be made, calculating such (hare from the firft
day of the uiomtr fucxcedlTVg~fuctr ~p>syifteff[s re
fpc&ively. Extract from the Miuutes,
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Jan. 23.
A New Post-Road.
HAVING been desired to eftablifti a poft
road from Reading, in thp Hate of PeriQ
fylvania, to Williamfburg, at the Great Foiks of
the Genefee river, Notice is hereby given, that
proposals will be received at the General Post-
Qflfrce, for carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Williamfourg aforcfaid, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading and the town of
Northumberland ; from the latter place to Loyal
Sock creek ; thence to Lycoming creek ; thence
in the new road to the Painted roft, on Tioga
river; and thence to Williamfburg.
The propofaU will be rccpivrd unfil the 15th
of March next, inclusively; the carriage of ihe
mail to commence withity one month after
wards.
Necessary PoA-Of&ces are to be eflablilhed on
the route, and fucfr peifons appointed Poft
matters as the Contractor (hall name, and the
Poftmafter-Genpral ppprove.
Within three months after the carriage of this
mail is commenced, the Conusor is to state to
the Poflmafter-General the days and hours of its
arrival and c|cparturs at from the principal
Poft-oflßces, which experience (hall prove to be
most convenient ; and thereafter the mail is to
be delivered at the refpe&ive Poft-oEfices at the
hours so fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted,
on penalty of one dollar for each hour's delay ;
and for the non-performance of a trip, the Con
tra6lor to forfeit twenty dollars.
The term of the contract cannot exceed eight
years. During its continuance the Contra&or is
to receive the rates of poAageby law eltab lifhed,
and to have the exclusive privilege of carrying
letters and packets for hire, such excepted, as
(hall be sent by a special meflenger, or which are
or shall be by law declared free.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P.M.G.
General Pofl-GJice, Jan. 22, 1793.
N E W TEA S.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG
Of the very fittt quality,an<} latell importation
from Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
N. B. A Jew Boxes of the above HYSON f»r sale.
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
Mav be had at SAMUEL COOPER'S Ferry.
TO BE SOLD BY TME EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Go|d : —
grad uatcd according to I.aw—Blank Manifefis—
And Blanks for the various Powers of Attorney
niceffary in tranfa&ing Business at the Trealuiv
or Bank of the the United States.
JP&T.MSLJMty,
By Thomas Dobfon
$*>{!< ller.jit jfe, Stone-Hnfe, » SttoU t
V.Q LUMt VII, ps
ENCYCLOPEDIA •
DICTIONARY of Ail(s sr 11 u*..
MiiGJ-.U AXLOi s
' SCONCES /M4>ARt ,
"TKE'V. lht Ft>rm **JF
rKEATJSZS A* SYSTEMS;
Tuc ...
Ac d ' W" r J' J o d officii
accord ingTOTtirl.^;ri}-B T *'
: .nd full Expl W u. 10 ,S o fe
»arious detached P ,„ 5 „f JU O „, P( , X!
relating to Na,„,al* n J Ar! , firial 0 h l C h ' ,
Matters Ecclifuftical, Civil, Mi 11,,., , ' "
cial, Ac. Including Elucidations of the
poila.it Topics relative tn k t l,g,„,.,M„r, s M ™*
nets, and theOeWwomy ot Lfc : el s t J „i*
a Defcriptton ofallthcCountncs, C,„e,,
w' *">• R '«". *c. throU^ o „,
/'l? *<«<"•< U4
Motfcin, of the different Euipi,,,. Knwd lm ,
and States : and arj account of .the Live* of til
most Emincut Pcrfons ia enary 4l*ii W| f, om (1k
ages dawn to the prrfciu tinges. Com
piled from tlie writing 9 I vhe belt amb,,.
Several Lan fi ua(>rs ( t h c mo st , p p lowd
ri<- ? , as well o| General Science a> of paiuuiW
benches; the I ra.nfaflions, jgurnals, and r .
moirs of the learned fucietu-., both ai homraud
on'diff - % MS ' ,CaU ' CS ° , c ' nlnem P'olelTor.
on difFcrem Sconces : and , yarirty of on^l
dencr' dhy an " lc -"f've CorrcfoJ.
The Seventh Volume contains a def.ripiio*
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exehartg<, iXpe
"mental Philosophy, Svftem of Karricrv, Feudal
fyfttm, fire, hxed Air,fluxions, Food, Fortifies.
• lon.Foffiis, ihiftajy 0 f Frame, Gardf.im,, <;«,
geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gildin s , Glsfc
&c. with a variety of articles in natural hilt'ory,-
biography and raifcellaniej. lUuflrated wife
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
CONDITiOSS.
I. The syorfc S printing on a fuperfirve paper,
and new types, ('.caJJior Ibe pu.polc) which
wi!i be occasionally renewed before tlt«y con.
tract a yo.ru appear ajnee.
11. Ihe work is furnished ip
or h?U-volpt«{S, chute; t!*e price
ol the whole volumes, five.domrsejch.oUlje
lialf-v.olumej two dollar* ?nd two-thirds nj *
dollar each. Tf\) dollars to tje paid ne £ui).
(bribing, or hjlf-voluair>&>ifhe4
to be paid for when delivered, theprice of one
volume to be paid in advajiee, and
each fucceecling volume to' be paid on deliver*
ing the volume preceding it. No part olfhe
work will be delivered uijlffspaid for,
111. In the couife of the publication will be d{.
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which sty
tar exceed in number those given in any oiher
fcicntific difliona»y. A±tfeeclnfe®(<Ktf.uh
ttMJion will be delivered an elegant frontif.
piece, tbe dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for tbe different volumes,
It is expeSed the wofk will be comprised frt
abom eighteen vnluijiej in quarto.
53" Tbolje wbo wifti to becoipe pofieffors of
this valuable worltwill pleafefo be eailyintbeir
applications, as the fubffriptjiOii is nearly doled.
J an • «3-
epim
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
February ift, 1793
WHEREAS foreigner* Stock in
the Bank of the United States may pret
fer receiving their Dividend* in Europe, to re
ceiving them in Ameiica,
RESOLVED, That any proprietor of tl|e
Capital Stock, of the Bank of the United States
residing in Europe, ftiall be entitled to repriye
either in London or in Amsterdam, the fo)f
yearly dividends which may be declared thcrip.
on—in London at the rate of one pound fterliijg
for every four hundred and forty-five cents, or
in Amsterdam at the rate of one guildet current
money for every forty cents and four mills—rt|>e
dividend declared in January of each year, tp
be pai f d in London or in Ainfterdam on the fcj|
cond Monday of July following—and the <Jivu
dend declared in July of each year, to be paid io
London or in Amftcrdam on the kcond Mon
day of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to the declaring of any Dividend, so to be
paid in London or io Amsterdam) shall give au
thentic „notice to the President arid DirtcWsnf
the Bajnk at which of the said Cities he will re
ceive the said Dividend.
By the President and Directors.
JOHN KEAN, Cffliifr.
FItTY DOLLARS REWARD
RAN away on the 25th instant, a likely
gro Man called Isaac, about twenty-three
year} oid, five feet fix or eight iqchef high, a
well made fellow, fond of tglking, has a la*"#*
mouth, and (hows his teeth very much when
talking ; had on when he went away, a
linen Ihirt, a short white kerfcy over jacket with
a very high collar and plain breast, with buttons
which appear to have been very gay ; a pair of
white kersey breeches, a pair of white knit yar«
ffockingt, a pair of (hoes with firings in them,
and a coarfc hat; all the above clothcs are
moll new. Said Negro was fprmeriy the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas, late of Kent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, dc
ceafed, and has for several years been employeil
in that neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by Messrs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, which buftneCs he is
well acquainted with, and is what he prefer*;
and has been engaged in driving a waggon fron»
said Cross-Roads to Duck-Creek, &c. until
August last. I expc£l he w:ll make his way for
the neighbourhoods of GemgoTown, Duclt»
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will be paid if delivered to me in thia
place, or Thirty Dollars if fecuted in anyggoatl t
so that I get htm again. He is an artful, fellow.,
and when taken, will make his escape, unlek
parti:ularly secured.
aston, OWEN KENNARD.
Tdbot County, Maryland] Dec. 28,1799.
ri