A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 65 of Vol. IV.]
CONGRESS.
XOUSF. OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 28.
Reduction of the military esta-
BLISHMENT,
Mr. Steele, agreeably to notice, called
up his motion, which is in the following
words: " Resolved, that a committee be
appointed to prepare and bring in a bill,
to reduce the military establishment of the
United fttates to regiments or corps,
confiding each of non commissioned
officers, privates, and musicians, wtih
such proportion of commissioned officers,
as the Ptefident may think proper to con
tinue in service ; and to repeal so much of
an ast pasTed the sth of March, 1792, in
titled " An ast for making further and
more effe&ual provision for the prote&ion
of the frontiers of the United States,"
as may contravene this intention.
Mr. Steele declared he did not rife to
fay much on this motion. The opinions
of members must be made up from obser
vations on fafls that have come within
their own knowledge, therefore, what
he could advance, he did not suppose,
would change their opinions. The house
is in pofTeffion of the motion, and every
member Hands responsible to his condim
ents, and to his own conscience for the
part he (hall a<9; upon it.
He prefaced some observations on the
nature of governments in the progress of
their administration. Time brings abuses
into mod, and he never was so sanguine,
he said, as to expe£t, that the federal
government would be exempt from them.
But when abuses did creep into the admi
nistration of a government, filencehe con
sidered as criminal, arid a quiet acquie
scence worse ; —a free people, however,
were incapable of feeing them without
remonstrating, and the people of America
pofTeffed enough of the true spirit of free
men, not to fuffer the progress of a rui
nous war system, or to bear the burthen
imposed on them to support expensive pi o
je£ts of ambition without remonstrating.
The people of the United States are
peaceful, they are attached from educa
tion and habit to' regularity and peace ;
he was sorry, he said, that part of our ad
miuillration did not appear to be guided
by the fame spirit. Chimerical projects
had been set on foot without regard to
the public opinion ; —armies have been
laifed and maintained without affording
protection to the frontiers, and the ex
pence of this system has judly roufcd the
indignation of our citizens. The motto
of a republic should be ' Economy and
Peace.' With these cardinal qualities, any
nation may be happy, without them no
government can be tolerable. He should
proceed, he said, to enquire how far they
had di&ated the measures of our govern
ment. For this purpose he turned to the
approbations, for the purpose of defraying
the expences of the Indian war. He read
some notes, taken from the existing laws
of appropriation and the estimate present
ed for the ensuing year, from which it
appeared, That
tor 1789, 137,000 dolls, were appropriat
ed for the war dep. & 20,000 for treaties.
90, 181,792 20,000
9 1 , 702,885 74cts. 20,000
92, 1,205,949 76 25,000
93> 50,000
Making a total of 3.534,347 : 200
for the support of the system fincc the e
stablishment of this young government.
He invited the house to take notice of
this enormous sum; the public, he said,
had done so already ; and this money had
beau or was to be appropriated without
Saturday, January 5, 1793.
fcarccly enquiiing how foimer appropria
tions had been applied. He hoped the
house would do fopaething to check this
growing evil; if they did not, he {hould
invite, he said, the Secretary at war him
felf, to take a retrofpeft for 20 years in
to the history of the frontier, and enquire
into the expenceof defending it when the
defence was entrusted to each individual
state, and to compare that expence with
what has already been incurred under the
present system. It would be difficult, he
said, to point out andjuftify the causes
of their material difference. There was
no good reafan why so expensive a system
as that now pursued (hould be necessary ;
and if the expences of the war-depart
ment could not be reduced, the country,
he conceived, would not be able to bear
them.
His motion was intended, and his mo
tives in making it, were, to afford effec
tual prote&ion to the frontier, to diminish
the expence at present incurred for that
object, and apply the savings to the re
duction of the public debt. He was firm
ly of opinion that if an economical system
was pursued, the defence of the frontiers
could be effe&ed and a finking fund esta
blished that would begin to operate 4 or
5 years sooner than was at present con
templated by the secretary of the treasury,
and that without any additional tax. He
could not approve of any finking fund
that mull be entirely supported by new
taxes—much less of one which was to de
pend solely on loans.
He next turned to the mode of war
fare adopted since the establishment of
the federal government against the Indi
ans. The hidory of the frontier fiom
Braddock's defeat to the present day am
ply proved, til at regular nrmtes are im
proper for that kind of war. If this his
tory had been attended to, and the fate
of that commander had been considered
and placed to its true cause, three milli
ons of dollars and many valuable lives
might have been saved to the United
States. A tegular army is an expensive
machine, and in its operations unwieldy
and tardy, composed of men without the
necessary enterj.rize, constitution and ac
tivicy to combat a savage foe, accustomed
to fatigue and fighting for their all.
He quoted a passage from a communi
cation from the Secretary of war himfelf
to the house, to shew the opinion he en
tertained of the enemy. Their sobriety
aad activity, and our ignorance of the
country and mode of warfare. The house,
he said, had not fufficiently attended to
the inadequatenefs of regular armies in
opposition to such an enemy, as demon
strated by experience, and that pernicious
facility of borrowiug had induced to pass
with too little difficulty appropriation up
on appropriation, to purfne it. If taxes
had been demanded to make these provi
sions perhaps the legislature, he suggest
ed, would have been more cautious how
they proceeded.
He again adverted to the mode of war
fare which regular armies necessitated ;
one expedition can only be effeftcd in one
year, and indeed, it had been found, that
even one could not be accomplished this
year ; but one expedition could afford no
effectual protection to the frontier. Be
sides the motions of a regular army are ea
sily watched and known ; Indians, well
knowing when to expect their enemy,
will collect in full force, and beat us a*
they have done, and will do again, if tbe
fame system is pursued',
He was of opinion, that if such a mea
sure would be admiiTible on principles of
benevolence and policy, that the Indian
war might be formed to the state of Ken
tucky, and completely terminated, for
one half of the sum now about to be ap
propriated to support the present futile
fyllem. He appealed for the justice of the
position to those gentlemen acquainted
with the feelings and habits of the peo
ple of that Hate.
249-
, Uporf the success of his motion he con
ceived the success of the war depended.
Regular- troops could never tight, in the
woods. If the system is not changed the
war will be a seven or ten years war. Ae
tive'and enterprftlng frontier militia alone
were equal to opposing Indians.
In his motion, as offeied, there was,
he said, a blank for the number of regt
ments to remain on foot. He (hould pro
pose, at a proper time, he intimated, to
fill this blank up with two, which would
give M2O privates, regulars, quite
enough, even if the President (hould think
it necessary to garrison all the posts which
have been e(labli(hed for the proteilion of
the frontiers.
He enumerated these poll: as follows :
Fayette, 'Hamilton, Stuben, Knox,
Tammany, Telfair, Harmar, Franklin,
Jefferfon, St. Clair, Marietta, MafTachu
fetts, Matthews and Knoxville.
Abandoning the fyilem of a&ive expe
ditions by regular troops, and giving to
each of these an equal portion of the 2128
men, composing the two regiments, each
post would be protested by 152 privates.
This number would be quite fufficicnt,
and greater than that now defending
some of those pods: But he wifhcd it
left difcietionary with the President to
distribute them.
He dated, that the only objefton of
the secretary at war, even to employing
the militia in this war, was. the expence.
He wished to refute that objefrton, and
went into a reasoning of forae length on
the fubjeft. Regular troops, when inlift
£d, must be paid, cloathed, &c. during
the whole time of their inliftrr.ent, (whe
ther in a&ual service or not; the militia,
tho' more expensive while on foot; yet
J>eing oq the spot. executing an expediti-,
en in forty or fifty days, then returning
to their homes, and immediately on their
return being out of pay, would be found
in the end much less expensive as well as
much more effedtual. Five expeditions,
he computed, could be made in each
year by a militia on or near the frontier,
and 30,000 dollars he set down as fuffici
ent to pay the expence of each of these
expeditions.
To give an idea of the expence of regu
lar troops, and to {hew the alarming pro
giefs of expeuce on this score, since the
eftablilhment of the new government, he
gave the following items from appropria
tion laws pad, and reports of estimates of
what will be neceflary for the ensuing
year.
Contingencies for the War Depart
ment.
For79oincludingexpre(Tt:s,&c 3 000
91 5 000
92 20 000
93 50 000
Estimate for
Quarter Matter's Department.
Appropriations for 1790 15000
91 25 000
92 50 000
93 100 000
Estimate fur
Hospital Department,
Appropriations for 1790
Estimate for
Ordnance Department.
Appropriationsfor 1790 764666
Estimate for
The provision for the last mentioned
department, he conceived, bore a very lu
dicrous appearance. He considered it as
absurd to attempt fighting Indians with
ai tiller y. Not all the artillery of Europe
would avail againll such a foe. He could
not fee that either reason or policy would
warrant an appiopriatiou of upwards of
23,000 dollars in the present fefiion for
the purchase of artillery for such a war.
And added that it seemed strange, that
the ordnance procured by the United
States to carry on the Biitifti war had not
1 000
91 1 635 20
92 6 000
93 25 000
91 6303 66
92 7204 64
93 23. 8 35 6 +
[Whole No.
been fuffici-ent to defend tT>c Frontitrgst
rifons, without calling upon the govern
ment to apptcfirlate in four years the sum
°f dollars for this purpose.
He next turned to the pay, fuhfiftence
and cloathing the troops. He premised
on this head) that it was well worth con
sidering, whether those articles kept up
an exa& proportion with the encreafe of
the troops, in the items he fliall give ;
they certainly should, he conceived. If
the proportion of the sums latterly appro
priated according to estimates for these
articles proved greater, there mull be, he
contended, abuse foinewhere, and it cer
tainly is the duty of the House of Repre
sentatives to examine where the blame
lies.
Pay of the Troops
Appro. 90 59,028
9 1 74.916
92 r02,686
EfU. for 93 504,30?
Cloatliing.
24,440
23,772 80
48,000
112,000
He was at fomelofs to account'for th<
want of proportion in the items al ovt
Hated, compared with the number oi
troops employed,—perhaps more officers
were under pay than the public service re
quired ; these things deserve thorough in
vestigation.
He proceeded to (hew what would be
saved to the United States by a change of
fyllem. He (hewed, by a quotation from
a report of the Secretary of the Treafu .y,.
that it was the opinion of that officer, that
the current service of the enfuintr year
would probably require the whole of the
revenue ; but that he contemplates a va
luable surplus for the tedemption of the
debt (hould a termination be put to the
Indian war. He made some observations
on the importance of redeeming the pub
lic debt, as speedily as possible, and com
plimented the Secretary of the Treasury,
in refpeft to the disposition he had (hewn
on this fubjecl.
He was of opinion, that with peace
and economy the refourcesof the country
would be fufficient to accomplirti its total
redemption in ten years, by purchases and
regular instalment payments.—Under the
ptefent system of warfare, a beginning
cannot be made without levying a new
tax, and a new tax cannot be'granted, un
til the abuses of the war department are
considered and coiredled.
He proceeded to shew the economical
effect of the reduction he proposed, on
our finances, by comparing the appropri
ation of 92 with the estimate for 93 for
the war department. t
Contingent Expences,
As fettled at the treasury,
'79 2 > 10,129
Per estimate 1793, jo.'ooo
Difference 39»7 7 *
Quarter-Master's Department.
1792, 50,000
1793, 100,000
Difference
Hospital Department.
1 19 2 ' 6,000
*793. 25,000
Difference
Forage for Cavalry, See.
1792, 4,152
1793, 44,856
Difference
Otdnance Department,
The whole provilion
for this department, he
conceived,mightgo out
however, to purfne hi*
plan, he tpok the dif
ference.
'79 2 > 7> jo 4>64<>
1793. 23»'35.649
Difference
lajl
Sublicence.
42.J52
59.787
119,688
3 f *.5«7 7?
Total.
1 26.020
158,475 80
2 70.374
728,875 75
50,000
19,000
40,704
16,631From the AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER.
%
VINDICATION OF MR. JEFFERSON.
T DID not expect, aftar my last paper, that
A the puVic would have been longer wearied,
at least u toe fame term-;, with a continu
*tion of tVv'e i.nve Tiv.es which have lor some
time pad i>ee»i iiftied, through the Gazette of
the United States, from a writer under the
llgnature of Catullus I thought I had placed
the point in controversy between us in such a
I'ght, as inuft compel him to bring it imme
diately to a close. But this wiiter has dif
appointcd my reasonable expectations, in this
rcfpett, by Viewing that he was capable not
only of a maiignant afper/iDn, of the charac
ter In qucftion, but likewise of a (hamelefs
effrontery in the mode of condu&ing the dif
cuflion.*
1 he impartial public will however take in
to view, on each fide the object of this con
troversy. They will mark its commencement,
and its several stages ; the nature of the
charges exhibited and of their support, toge
ther with the present dilemma of the writer.
They will likewise pardon the trouble I shall
give tbem, in ptirfuing him through every
fhift. A ftrift analysis of his performance
may perhaps render some service, otherwise
than by the mere exculpation of the citizen
Jiiiailed. The merits of the aifailant are now
likewise before them, and of which it may
eventually to fix a more precise estimate,
than has heretofore been furniflied.
"Whether it would be prudent tor tlie au
thor of Catullus to give his name to the pub
lic, and take on him elf the credit of those
performances, which bear that signature, he
alone fliould decide. He poflefifes the right to
ad in this refpeft as he pleases, and no person
can deprive him of it. There is a difference
between a suspicion and the confefiion of
guilt, which every culprit may avail himfelf
of. To submit to the judgment of his peers,
after the charge shall bs fairly established a
gainst: him, by evidence he has endeavored to
repel, is all that can be required from even
the molt profligate of men.
Yet if truth had been the sole object in view,
in the immediate point of difcuflion between
us, I was, and (till-am persuaded, I had pla
ced it within the reach of fair and easy at
tainment. And the mode suggested in my
last seemed to be proper, as it might refpeft
either the putative or any other author of
those pieces. Were the public interested in
the charges exhibited against the Secretary of
State, fuppofins they contained in them any
thing culpable ? If they were-uot, why trou
ble theni with what, in that view, must be
deemed the effect of a mere personal animo
sity ? And if they were, will it be honorable
for tlie author, when his farts are denied, his
veracity questioned, and a fair mode of in
vestigation pointed out, to fculk beli'nd a
inafk, and deny himfelf to any one, even the
most humble of his fellow-citizens ? All that
can be deemed necessary for the establishment
of truth is, that some person, in whom the
"public cata confide, should be announced, that
he might accompany the author, whether Mr.
Hamilton, or any other person, to the proper
source, for the purpose of obtaining from it
an authentic copy of the original. Would the
grade or ftationof the character thus notified,
be it what it might, encreafe or diminish the
confidence of the public in the result, provi
ded it were suitable in other refpe&s? and in
the situation of the author, asserting at one
time one thing, and at another yielding it up,
perpetually fh sting his ground and owning
himfelf guilty of palpable inaccuracy, and of
courfeof misrepresentation, might it not ra
ther have been expe&ed, he would have
caught with avidity at the opportunity fur
nifhed, ofeftablifhing what was hi reality the
truth, as the means of prefervitig in some de
gree the appearance of candor with the pub
lie?
And will the author of these piece-; leave
\js in suspense, upon the important concerns
of his veracity and fame, until they (hall have
gained the attention of the character, at whom
they have been principally pointed ? Would
it be proper for the Secretary of State, to lay
bare the files of his department, and publilh a
secret document even in his own defence ?
For although perhaps of but little importance
in the present instance, circumftanccd as
things now are, yet in relation to those rules,
which fhonld he observed in the government
of a public office, might it not fubjeft him to
the imputation urged with such propriety a
gainst the Secretary of the Treasury, in cafe
these publications have proceeded from him ?
Can no other mode then bedevifed that might
tend to relieve him from this painful embar
rassment ? I can suggest none; perhaps his
own ingenuity may be more fertile ; but to
ine it appears probable that unless this deli
cacy with re'"p eel to rank should be dispensed
with, his fituat'on must continue to be an un -
pleasant one. The mind of man is naturally
adlive, and disposed to pursue its obje£>; it
will-form fotne conclusion relative to this at
tack and its author. To the claims of fair
and honorable indulgence it will yield its
prompt and ready assent; but when charges
are exhibited against the character of a ref
pedtable citizen, fadts asserted which are not
supported, and the obvious means of proof
when pointed out shrunk from, upon a mere
point of etiquette, fafhionable as is the age
in which we live, they must recoil with ac
cumulated force upon the assailant. I have I
prefurne, (hewn \n a former paper that upon
any ftateinent yet given, if its true import
only were regarded, there was in reality 110
* This, it is to te h-ifreJ, wit! h deemed a ftijji
fiat at>oh*v to the tmbhi, for dep.n ting from the
tifilutien tvitii which tie >"si number x-ai clojed.
impropriety in tlio sentiment ascribed to Mr.
Jerterfon. Let it be admitted, for the fake of
argument, that be advised Congress upon the
pi'ofpeft of the failure of punftuaiity, in the
payments, to agree to the transfer of the
debt from the French court, to the Dutch
company ; that he even origiuated the pro
position, and pre Tented it to their view, with
out an alternative, wherein was the impro
priety ? Is a nation inhibited by any principle
of morality, from borrowing money for the
most nete'fary purposes, in cafe there is a
possibility of failing in the repayment, i pre
cisely at the time stipulated ? If this were the
cale, how can the original loans, of the whole
foreign debt from Fiance and Holland, be
juftified ? The profpedt of ultimate reiin
burfement, whilst the ilTue of the contest, and
our independence were at stake, was Ctft>
taiuly more distant and equivocal, than after
that happy event was accomplished, and the
whole resources of one of the most extensive,
fertile and productive countries in thewarld,
under our command. Yet although doubts
may have existed whether, under those cir
cumstances any person would lenq, I believe
no one ever hesitated, whether \£ we could,
we would borrow. How can the practice of
our own government in borrowing money
in Holland, from one set of men to pay the
interest becoming due to another at the very
period of this letter be) juftified? In (hort I
take it to be well eftabliihed, that if there be
a moral competency, at the time a propor
tion for a loan is made, for fulfilling the pro
poled stipulations, there cannot be any im
propriety in the measure. The turpitude
consists in riot doing afterwards what we have
it in our power to do. Did Mr. JeiFerfon give
any admonition to his countrymen to this ef
fect ? Did he advise them not to pay the debt,
or to relax in any degree, in their efforts, for
that purpose ?
No. VI.
In fatt, a change of the debt in some shape or
other, either by the negociation of the Ficnch
court, or the Congress," with money-lender® ii
Holland, seemed to be the neccffary conff quencS
of the relative situation and interelts of the seve
ral parties. Fiance was distressed for monc\.
Neaily exhanfted by a laborious effort, in favor
of our independence, and daily impovrrifhed by
an expensive court and piofligate minister, Ihc
grasped with avidity at every resource, however
trifling, to support her declining credit. Our
debt was becoming due by large instalments.
To indulge us was beyond her power ; to have
claimed it, would have Rained our national cha
ra£ler with ingratitude. On the other hand,
we were at itte time unable to pay. Our requi
sitions were li ghted—our government was fee
ble and without resource. But we poffefled be
yond a doubt, under wife arrangements, the
means of fulfilling more extensive engagements,
and the fagc anddeliberate councils of our couu
try, were rapidly maturing that important
change in our system, which must give us ihe
command of those resources. Holland, there
fore, in this situation, became the object of both
parties. To the exigencies of France she could
yield relief ;to us (he could give time. Was
it not then natural, we should look to th3t quar
ter, for the means of fatisfying our ally, aad *£-
lievirig us from embarrassment ?
In the proposition for a new arrangement
with another party, the door would be open
for stipulations in every refpedl more suitable to
us. The reimbursement of the principal, which
was becoming due by great inflaloicnts to
Fiapce, was the true cause which endangered
our punctuality. With the Dutch, this incon
venience might be guarded against. To pro
tra& the repayment to a distant day, has been
heretofore as defuable to them as eligible for
us. And that this was the object conterwplated
by Mr. J< fferfom, no reasonable man can doubt.
In this point of view, his conduct was not only
flri£tly proper, but highly laudable ; and no
thing but the most fallacious ftatemrnt could
throw the smallest (hadow of doubt on it.—
This has been attempted in the instance before
us,by fupprefTing the efTential difference between
the time, at which the old debt was, and that at
which ijie new debt might be made payable;
and bke every other attempt di£lated by the
motives which govern Catullus, must recoil on
the author.
To me it has appeared perftftly immaterial,
which of «he expedients was that of Mr Jciftr
fon—for I can conceive no poflible impiopriety
in either ; nothing but what was warranted by
the moil delicate sentiment of honor, and the
practice of our government, from the declarati
on of independence to the present day. Upon
principle, therefore, I fhonld not have noticed
a difference. I did it lor the fake of tiuth, and
to (hew, that whilfthe wifhtd the accommoda
tion ot his own country, it was in a manner
that migiit do juft.ee, and evince our gratitude
to the Frcnch nanon. I did it likcwife, for the
purpose of (hewing the fallacy of the writer,and
his eagerness to wound that gentleman's fame,
by every plausible mifrepiefentation in his-pow
er. Upon the whole, therefore, I mud consider
thts, as one of the moil illiberal and contempti
ble efforts,to injure the chara&er of a refpc&able
citizen, that has occurred. That the ground
has been in every refpeft the mod trifling and
frivolous that could be. and that nothing but a
great deal ot malice against principles, as well
as the person entertaining them, could have giv
en birth to it ; unless Catullus shall demonfirate
that malice cannot exilt in the fame mind a
gainst both, at the fame time. 1 shall conclude
this paper by observing, how much it is to be
wift'td, this wjiter would exhibit himtrlf 'of
the public view, that we might behold in him a
living monument of ihav immaculate purity, so
which he pretends, and which ought to distin
guish so bold and arrogant a censor of others.
For the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
Mr. Few no,
WE have fetn in a late paper, under {he
confjiicuous article of Communications,
some general remarks which appear designed
by their author to excite Jufjikion> in the minds
of the people, with regard to their fervapts
acting under the general government. Such
250
vague infintiations are not likely to answer
any valuable purpose, and evidently proceed
from the painful paflion of envy, that rankles
in the mind of him who is grieved at the suc
cess of certain public measures, and the well
earned fame of those who planned them. If
this mighty honest patriot knows of any abufcs
committed by the Servants of the public, why
does he not point them out, ard speak in lan
guage that can be understood ?
Generally speaking, the number of r,formers
for each of the Hates, is about equal to tho r e
who wish to get into places of public trull ;
and in order to effect their purpose, they let
themfe/ves up as the organs of the people. Your
■writer appears to be of this clais, and what
ever his pretensions may be to the contrary,
he has difcoveredhimfelf to be no great friend
the government or to the union, by the
following fentence —" A delegate three or
f )or, or seven or eight hundred miles off, at a
place seldom vilited by an acquaintance,
fcarcelv ever by a rival, ejeupes mut/t of the rc
fptmJUt/ity felt by members oj a local legilla
ture."
From the nature of the.union, and the real
or supposed separate state interests, there is
little real'on to fear that the movements of
the general government will not be carefully
watched ; and it is not probable that the vi
gilance so much recommended, is likely to be
changed into fupinenefs.
We lhall not be displeased if the members
of the legislature of the United States will
watch,one another; and the organization of
the Treafuty Department is known to excel any
thing of the kind in the individual states, with
refpe'ft to guards and checks 011 the conduct
of the persons immediately concerned.
It is believed that the people have much
more to fear from mal-adininiftiation in the
state, than in the national government; but
our hufy politicians are so mnch engaged in
taking care of the latter, that they appear to
neglect the former.
These gentlemen are conftnntly finding
fault with the provision made for the public
debt ; notwithftandingevery state had a fund
ing system under the old confederation, that
taken together, cost the people double the ex
pence of the present one. They endeavor to
make us believe they speak the sentiments of
the people ; but the fatt is otherwise, and
there is reason to believe that such men have
no jujl ideas of credit, either public or pri
vate.
The National Bank is also a terrible eye
sore, and is to deftrov every thing ; yet if we
may judge of the opinions of the people from
the a£ts of their legislatures, the business of
banking does not appear unpopular, but di
rettly the contrary ; for almost every state in
the union has authorized such eftabliftiments.
How the public 11 gave away four millions''
that is said to have been made by the bank
subscription, and which it is acknowledged
they ncicr pojj'ejjed, is a matter that requires
explanation. Your's,
An Enemy to Moonshine Politicians.
5 Foreign Affairs.
ROME, September 2Q,
IN this place the friends of the French are
more numerous than you can imagine, and
the people want nothing but a leader to ciufli
the Papal authority, and rescue themfelvcs from
superstition and oppreflion.
Four thousand men were last weik raifed,and
ordered jo the banks of theTyber. They desir
ed to know lor what purpose they were embo
died, but their requifnion was denied. How
ever, having come to the knowledge that they
were to embark for the purpose of alOfting the
Auftrians to fight against the liberties of France,
thole Citizen Sold iers to a man laid down their
arms, and fold their regimenials to the Jews.
Ihe flatue of St Peter, in St. Peter's church
has been ftript of its gorgeous and costly appa
rel, in which the Saint is annually dressed, in
compliment to the birth day of his Holiness the
Pope. He now appears in deep mourning, la
meriting the misfortunes of Louis ! —The Pope
and his Cardinals have put on sackcloth *nd ash
es, and the statue of Pafquin is covered daily
with satirical poems against his Holiness nnd his
friends, which in days of yore would have been
by the ignorant pronounced—blasphemous !
LISLE, O&ober 10.
The fire of the enemy ceased on the morning
of the 6'-h, but they did not abandon the villages
of Fives, Helemmes, Anappe, and other places
in the neighborhood till the Bih.
Theyi?egan theii entrenchments, on Tuesday,
Sept. 25th: Nothing could be more beautiful
or better disposed than their works, and every
one who has seen them is astonished that they
were able to form them in such a short space of
time. The batteries rose one above another in
gradation, at the distance of ioo paces from each
other, and they were so strong, that 15,000 men
could not have dislodged the Auftrtans. The
loss which they have occrsfioned to this city is
cftimatea at fix millions.
PARIS, O6lobcr la
M. Manuel visited Louis XVI. the day before
yeftcrday, and informed him that he was no
longer a King. I notified to him (fays he)
ihe foundation of the republic, land told him,
ihat although he ceased to be a sovereign, he
rrfight ltill be a good citizen. He did not ap
pear to be in the least (hocked at his situation.—
Louis is no more affc&ed with his lot as a pn
foner, than he was as that of a King.
" I spoke to him of our conquests : I told
him of the capture of Spire ; of the surrender of
Chamberry, Nice, &c. and I announced to him
that the fall of Kings was as near at hand as that
of the Laws.
" I also told him, that every precaution should
be taken {or his fafety ; but that he might de
pend upon being treated with all thai humanity
which a tree nat ion ever exhibits towaid&a citi
zen , who is unfortunate enough to be a prtfoner."
This triumph over tallcn royalty is contempti
ble, and betokens a meanaud ungeucjous mind.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
GAUpfcT, Pk evident
Read an Addicts from ihr Society of the
Friends of Liberty and Equality, formed at
Chair berry ;—
Legijlators of the World !
The Society ol the F> tends of Liberty and
Equality afltmbled at Charnberry, proud of ihe
rights hich the y have recovered ; liberated by
your genius, and the courage of vour waniors ;
tender you their thanks and their acknowledg
ments. Like you we have loved
— Lvke you wc are inflamed with all thi Bresof
citizenlViip—Like you we execrate the memory
of kings ; and like you we have (worn never a
gain to acknowledge their authotity.
Legiflafors, our hearts yet Meed with the tor
ments we have (offered ; the (hocking captivity
in which we have groaned, which is con(lan ly
in our remembrance, and which will ftrve a»
the eternal aliment of our patriotism.— O King
of Jerufalcm and of Cyprus ! too long thy Sa
tellites hive weighed down our hearts, with,
their iron yoke : it is broken, thanks to the
French; we have trampled it under our feet -
and to thee we fend it as a present, to whom it
belongs ; though fugitives and base slaves may
daie in the mean timeto dishonor by rheif pre
sence this land of liberty : they (hall prove what
Freemen can do, uniied with thr terrible pha
lanx of the Frencli Republic, with whom they
will, ere long, form but one and the fame fami
ly.— Thou art appalled without doub^Jßlc.tor
Amade vs, at the news of their victory —Thv
throne is tottering, and well mayeft thou trem
ble— It will soon fall, like those of other des
pots, and thy projects will disappear with thy
scepter. We no longer consider ouiTelves as thy
fubje&s— <ve will have no more kings—we will
have no mofe matters. We have sworn to be
free, and we will be so ; for we prefer death to
a return to flaverv
French Legifla'ors, Savoy, liberated by yoor
goodness, exprcfTes a supreme dvfire for her re
union with the French R public. Already the
Society, composed of more than twelve hun
dred citizens, has cU puted one hundred" "OT its
members, who, armed wiih the light of reason
and of libeitr, go to congratulate all the inhabi
tants of the towns and the country on their re
generation, and their imprefcripti hie riphts.—
Soon th? faithful interpreters ol their sentiments
will aflemble at Chamberrv, the»e to express
their mind ; their vow, without doubt will be
the fame as ours ; to olaee t hem (elves under the
protection oi the French Republic, and to have,
in future no other concerns with them than aa a
nation of brothers. As to our Legislators, we
swear ir,
The Prcfident and Secretaries of the Society,
Doppet,
Moras, and
HE R N1 E R .
The convention ordered it to be printed iu
German, EngliHi,and Spanish.
A letter from the commifTioners of the con
vention, dated at Verdun, the i6ih of Och>b< r,
fays, that the city has abounded with traitors,
and that the convention ought to make a grand
example ; but they have seen with pU-afure, that
there were found among them some good patri
ots.
LetterJrom th* Miniller of Foreign jPi^K «e,
I have icccived a dispatch from General Mon
te fquiou, in which he gives me the result of feve-
ral conferences which he has had with the city
and Republic of Geneva. This icfult is as fa
tisfa£lory as we could wiiVi it to he ; and I hade
to anticipate to you, that the General has an
nounced to me, a very speedy success to his ne
gociatjon. Le Bri>n.
N A M U R, Oaoberu
Some people are ariived from the army of
Gen. Ciairfayt, such as commiflaries, fu.trlet*,
See. They lav, that the troops have undergone
the greaieft diftrtfs, that they were four days
without,eating, that at laflthey killed and eat
their horses, and that if a truce had noi been
made, they must all have surrendered ; out of
6000 cavalry, which composed this army, not
above 400 will ieturn ; the reft are all either
killed, taken, or the horses eat ! The rrmam> of
Gen. Claiifayt's army have already p«>ffcd the
French frontier.
BRUSSELS, October 17.
We hear from the provinces of Namur and
Luxemburgh, that the army of their Royal Hvgh
nefles Monneur and the Duke D'Artois, is dis
banded, as well as that under the command of
the Duke de Bourbon ; the individuals of which
these armies were composed, are in the greatcft
distress, wandering and dispersed, without
knowing where to po, or what is to become of
them ; many without money, others felling their
horses, watches, and even their clothcs.
VIENNA, O&ober 6.
The Police of Vienna redoubles its utmost at
tenrion, to watch foreigners as well as the fub
je£ls of the Emperor, who may be infe&cd with
lhe fnin't of Liberty.
According to the observations which have
Hern lomc time making, it has been discovered,
that those citizens whose attachment to the coun
try was mod depended upon, are the declared
enemies of Monarchical government, and have
every where endeavored to make proselytes to
this opinion. It is found that persons of all
clafTes and conditions are in these clubs; it is
feared therefore, that the tempest, which mud
burst upon them, will be the more dreadful.
L O N DO N, 06lober 9.
On Friday night, hi? Excellency Baion Jaco
bie, the new Pruflian Envoy, arrived at Lothian's
hotel, in Albemarle-ftrcct, from Berlin. He
will be prefc nted to-morrow to the King, at she
levee, and on Thursday to the Queen.
Ytfterday the Imperial Envoy, and M. Ca
lonuc, tranfa&ed business with Lord Grenville,
at his office, Whitehall.
Oft. 16. The Affemblv of the Ministers of
the different powers of Europe, is, it seems, to
commence its furi&ious about the 20th inft. For
some of thefeMinifters, the Austrian government
has. prepared lodgings. / Asa preliminary ftcp
to the holding of a Congrcfs, an ordinance has
been pubbfhed, commanding all the French
Emigrantstoquit Luxemburg, under the pretext,
however, of the (peedy arrival of troops.CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
WEDNESDAY, January 2.
Mr. Ames of the committee to whom the re
port of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the pe
tition of Joseph Henderfon was referred, brought
in a report, which was read i this was partially
in favour of the petitioner. Laid on the table.
The petition of John Roland was read, pray
ing compensation for services performed, and
disabilities incurred during the late war. Laid
on the table.
The committee on the petition of Ebenezer
CowelL brought in a report, which wasagainfl
the prayer of the petition. This report was
accepted.
The following engrossed bills were read the
third time, and passed, viz.
A bill to authorize the settlement of the ac
counts of Lewis Garanger,for military services,
during the late war.
A bill to amend the a£t eftablilhing a mint,
so far as refpefts the coinage of copper. And
A bill to allow the payment of interest, on a
claim of the persons therein mentioned.
Mr. Sedgwick, of the committee appointed,
reported a biH to compensate John Tucker.—
Read twice, and committed for to-morrow.
On motion of Mr. Gerry, the several petiti
ons of the officers of the late army, were refer
ed to a committee of the whole House on Mon
day next.
A letter was read from the Secretary of State,
containing a lift of the Clerk s employed in his
department, and the salaries received by each,
communicated pursuant to a resolution of the
house of Monday lafl:.
In committee of the whole, on Mr. Steele s
motion for reducing the military eftabliflimest
of the United States, &c.
Mr. White in the chair.
The motion was read by the Chairman, and
debated till near three o'clock. They then rose,
reported progress, and had leave to fit again.
In committee of the whole, on the bill mak
ing compensation to the widows and orphans
of persons killed while afling under the fanition
of flags of truce.
Air. Dayton in the chair.
The committee difcuflcd the bill. They then
rofc, reported progress—and the House ad
journed.
THURSDAY, January 3.
The petition of Charles King, praying to be
placed on the pension lift, was read and laid on
the table.
Mr. W. Smith, of the committee appointed
for the purpose, reported a bill to regulate
claims to invalid pensions, which was twice
read, and committed for to-morrow.
A letter was read from the Secretary of War
enclosing a lift of the several persons employed
in the Department of War. with the salaries al
lowed to each. Laid on the table.
The report of a fele6t committee on the peti
tion of Joseph Henderfon, was referred to a
committee of the whole house to-morrow.
In committee of the whole, on the bill mak
ing compensation to the widows and orphans of
persons killed, bearing flags of truce t® the In
dians.
Mr. Dayton in the chair.
The committee filled up the blanks and made
several amendments to the bill, which were re
ported to the house, and laid on the table.
The House then, in committee of the whole,
Mr. White in the chair, relumed theconfidera
tion of Mr. Steele's motion, for reducing the mi
litary eilablifhment of the United States, The
motion was again read, and debated, Mr.
Steele and Mr. Clark supported the motion ;
Mr. Milledge and Mr. Findley opposed it. A
motion for the committee's rising and report
ing progress, after some opposition, was carried.
Mr. W. Smith moved, that when the House
adjourn, they should adjourn to meet at Ten
o'clock. After some remarks from Mr. Liver
more, on the want of pun&uality in attending
at Eleven o'clock, the usual hour of adjourn
ment, —he fuggefted,asan expedient, the call
ing over the names of the members at Eleven
o'clock. Mr. Smith withdrew his motion to
substitute the idea of Mr. Livermere, and made
a motion accordingly, in the following words ;
1 hat there be a call of the members at the
usual hour of adjournment, and that the names
of those then absent, be entered on the journal.
This motion was laid on the table.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, Jan. 4.
Mr. Slerrcit Member from Maryland, took
hit f at ihii d.iy.
The bill providing compensations for the wi
dows and orphans of thr persons who were kill
ed, while airiu* under the fan£tion of flags of
truce to (he Indians, was further discussed in
committee of the whole ; additional amend
ments weie made, which the committee report
ed in the Houle—the Hnufe took ihe fame into
confideratioii ; ihey made ftirlhei amendments,
ana then the bill was ordered to be engrofLd
for a third reading.
A letter was read from the Secretary of the
Trrai'iwy eticlaßng lifts of the persons employed
111 the Treasury Department with the salaries al
lowed to each j-.alfo > llatemrnt of the several
Loans made by the executive of the United
States, ptirfuant to law, with the appropriations
of Ihe fame; ordered that soo copies of thi>
communication be prin'ed.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to
regulate claims to invalid penlions Mr.D.ty
too in the chair—The bill was read by the
cMairraan.
A motion by Mr. Livermore, to strike out
a cl: ul'e whichprovides that applicatioosfrom
persons who * cases have heretofore been de
cided upon, .u-.d their claims rejected, should
not be again received and allowed—'was after
iome opposition negatived
Mr. Venable moved an amendment, the
>bje& of which was to invalidate the doings
of the judges, atting as commiifioners in the
cases of applications for pensions, pursuant .to
the law palled t>.e last session—and to place
those pensioners on the fame footing with
such as are the fubjefts of the bill now under
consideration—this motion occasioned a de
bate which continued till the time of adjourn
ment —the committee rose and reported pro
gress, and the iioule adjourned till to-n orrow.
RICHMOND, Dcc. 26.
Wopaie concerned to be under the neccflity of
following up oui accounts fiomthe western ter
ritory, with more disagreeable intelligence from
ihene*'
Some time in the last month, Captain Hand
ley with his co mpany ot (drafted} militia, and
an escort under their care, marched from Knox
vilie for Cumberland ; on their route they were
surprised on the Cumberland trg'.e, between
Knoxville and NaHivilJe, by a party of
confiftmg of about 200 ;— on their fit ft fire, Ca.pt.
Handley and eleven of his men fell, and the re
mainder of the company and the escort instantly
dispersed of which twenty-four are ltill mif
fing, supposed to be killed or taken prisoners.
The militia had no suspicion of being ncjr an
enemy, until they received ihe fatal fire, which
brought their commander and so many of their
fellow soldiers to the ground.
It is barely justice to the memory of Capt.
Handley, to mention, that he had served his
country, in a military capacity, five cam
paigns with distinguished reputation and ap
plause ; and that equally in public and private
life he lived beloved and refpedled, and has
died univerfaJJy lamented.
NEWBUHYPORT, Dec. 19.
Last week a piece of timber, designed for
mast of a large India (hip, was drawn over
the us* Bridge, by upwards of twenty a&M),
without so much as causing the least crack to
be heard in the Bridge, notwithstanding the
enormous weight of the load.
Philadelphia, Jan. 5.
The Directors of the Bank of North-Ame
rica have declared a dividend of seven and an
half per cent, for the fix months ending Ja
nuary 1 ft.
Tuesday afternoon, a number of friends of
equality and of rhe French revolution, Ame
ricans and French, partook of a splendid en
tertainment at Mr. Oeller's hotel, in comme
moration of the intelligence lately received
of the success of the Gallic arms against those
of despotism.
Tickets of admiflion to the seroftatic expe
riment by the celebrated Mr. Blanchard, will
continue to be fold till Wednesday next, at
Oeller's Hotel. Tickets for the firft places,
five dollars—recond places, two dollars.
Since the celebration of the fucce£e<t cf
France on the Ift inft. at Oeller's Hotel, a
correspondent has observed, that a number of
persons have been decoated with the tri
coloured ribbon at their button-holes. The
blue ribbons talked of, have not yet appeared.
Extratt of a letter from Columbia, (S.C.) Dec. 9.
u The Eleftofs of Prefidenkand Vice-Pre
fident have voted for the present gentlemen
in office. Major Butler is re-elected to the
Senate of the United States. The gentlemen
in nomination were Gov. Pinckney and Maj.
Butler ; the former had eight votes, the lat
ter one hundred and eighteen ; —a pretty
strong evidence of the sentiments of this coun
try in favor of Major Butler's public conduct.
—There is no man poffefTes the esteem and
confidence of his fellow citizens more highly
than Major Butler."
AbJiraß of Foreign Intelligence.
In the attack of Spires, the Auftrians loft
Bod men, besides a great number mortally
wounded—and though they fought bravely,
yet the French had only 20 killed and thirty
wounded.
Spain has openly declared its disposition to
co-operate with Austria and Prussia against
France.
The Porte has refufed permission for eight
(hips of the line, and the fame number of fri
gates of the Ruffian navy, to pass the Darda
nelles, in order to a<st against the French.
A grand civic feaft, on account of the suc
cess of the French armies, was to be celebrat
ed in Paris in O&ober.
A serious rupture has taken place among
the Jacobins, and it is said they have expelled
BrilTot, and ordered his name to be erased from
their minute-book.
M. Peion is re-elected Mayor of Paris—
and M. Garat has accepted the office ef Mi
nister of justice.
Tranquility reigns generally in Paris; a
general opinion prevails, that neither Louis
nor the Queen will be punished with death
The majority of the Convention appear to be
difpofcd to conciliate parties, rather than en
courage anitnofity j little doubt however ex
ists but that repiiblicaniCm will remain the
French form of government, till future expe
rience fcall point out its inefficacy.
M. Danton demanded in the Convention,
that the country be declared out of dsvgcv, this
proposition was combated and deferred.
By a letter of the CommilGoners to the
Convention, dated the 10th Ottober, it ap
pears, that the enemy had 30,000 men en
camped without Verdun ; and were in pof
feflion of the Heighths which command that
town, in which they have a great number of
sick. Kcllerman was making his arrange
ments to attack this army when it retreated.
Died, in South-Carolina, Hon. Hekry Lai'-
*ens, formerly President of Congress, &rc.
251
Extract of a letter from Mr. VandcrhorJt x Consul oj
the United State* at Brijlol, to ch\ Seuttary oj
State, dated Otiober 10.
u A very uncommon wet harvest-time
here, has done much injury to the crops of*
grain, which were before very proi\iifing.—
Corn, in consequence, has considerably ad
vanced in price, and it is expected, will still
be higher-r-fo that there is at present no
doubt among our merchants in this place, but
the ports of this kingdom will, in the course
of next month, be opened for the admiflion of
foreign grain of all forts—indeed, so confident
are they of this, that many of them have al
ready sent large orders abroad for the pur
chasing of corn."
kxtrflft of a letter from Mr. Fenzoick, Consul oj the
brated -Stater xtt Bordeaux, to the Secretary of
Stale, dated Sept. 28.
u The crops of grain have, proved much
less than was expected; in all thelbuthern de
partments of France, considerable foreign
supplies will be wanting. Mr. Cathalan, Vice
Consul of Marseilles, is now here—encouraged
by the citizens of that place, and the profpeft
of the scarcity of grain, to come as far as
this, and go even to America, in order to buy
and procure supplies of wheat and flour; but
the uncertainty of the times has deterred him
from going on to America. We shall also
want much in this and the neighboring depart
ments, and I presume the prices will be high."
DECREE
OF THE
NATIONAL LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY OF
FRANCE,
1 • THE importation of every kind of to
bacco in the leaf is to be permitted, from and
after the firft day of O&ober next, on paying
10 livres the quintal for the tobaccos which
are fubjedl to the duty of 18 livres 15 sous;
12 4i*res 10 sous for those which pay 25 livres ;
& 15 livres for all othe rs,except those in fegars,
which shall pay 25 livres. The duties of ten
livres & 12 livres 10 sous, shall be levied as well
on the tobacco which shall be imported, reck
oning from the above date, as on those which
Ihall then be in entrepot. The tobaccos of the
Levant shall be admitted in bales; those of
Amersfort, in hampers; and those of the
Colonics, in bundles.
2. Leaf tobacco imported by sea, shall have
the right of entrepot eighteen months. They
may even pass, by a continuation of entrepot
from one port to another. They fliall pay
the duty on the actual weight, and only at
the expiration of the time of entrepot, or when
they shall be taken from thance for national
consumption. The whole on condition that
the warehouses shall only be in the ports fur
jiifhed by the merchants at their own expenfc,
and of which the Directors of the Regie ihall
have a key.
3- Manufactured tobacco, which (hall be
fold in tonfequence of seizure, shall be fubjedt
■to a duty of 15 livres per quintal.
4- Tobaccos seized from persons unknown,
and not reclaimed, may be fold three days as
ter notice, to the Solicitor of the Corporation,
and advertising the decree of confiscation :
the net proceeds of the sales shall be paid im
mediately to the persons seizing, and divided
according to the reles eftabiifhed, or to be
eftabiifhed.
5- When several seizures of tobacco shall
be separately made from persons unknown
within the jurifdi&ion of the fame diftrift
tribuna), and the value of each parcel seized
(hall not exceed 50 livres, the Regie may de
mand confifcation by a petition which
shall contain the estimate of each parcel of
the tobacco, and a decision shall be iflued on
the said petition by one and the fame judg
ment.
6. The resolutions in the two preceding
articles shall be executed, in refpeft to all sei
zures made from persons unknown, of things
which shall not have been reclaimed.
We are sorry !o fee (fays a correspondent) the
spirit of discord is so predominant in the choice
of a Vice-Prejident of the Ull ited States :—When
ojir country is blefTed with faithful difmterefted
lervants, whose chief study is the good of man
kind, change them not, left you change for the
worse ; and monarchy and all its dreadful con
cimiiams be again fcen stalking among us. If
the gentleman, who has the honor of filling that
oflicc, has not performed with ft rift justice and
equity, the function allotted to him—why not
made known ? If on the contrary he has, why
a change ?—Americans be not duped by the ex
clamations of the Anties, who wish to plant the
buter weeds of discord in this land of liberty :
Let it be engraven on your hearts, that
" An honett man's the noblest work of God."
Virginia Gazette.
The votes whkh have been given in the re
spective slates for Vice-President (fays a cor
respondent) will decide the state of the Nati
onal pnlfe as to federal principles. The two
candidates are represented at extreme points
—the one a full-blooded anti-federaliii, the
other a reputed arillocrat, at the fame time
an honest man, the noblelt work of GOD.
The oleftors being chosen by the immediate
representatives of the people, doubtless carri
ed with them their fentiinents in the aggre
gate hence a very important point uil/be
decided.
We have the pleasure to annoi ce to every
■well-wiftier to our excellent Constitution,
that the firm Patriot and Friend to the true
interest of the Union JOHN ADAMS, is re
elected Vice-Prefideiit by a handsome Ma
jority.
Tho e who vindicate the federal fide of the
question, take it for a fact that the people are
intelligent and enlightened. Therefore they
offer reasons to the underliandings of the peo
ple, supposing them fully capable of perceiv
ing their force. And this has been constantly
attempted against the current of prejudice
and ignorance, which carries away li.e ieaft
informed part of our citizens in certain dif
trifts of the union. Til:; is treating tie
people refpeftfully, and as experience Las
happily proved, according to their real cha
racter. It is a fact in corroboration of the
remark just made, that the most enlightened
part of the United States, is the liidft federal-
The /action, on the other hand, has treated
the people as if it. wert e.ify to dupe them.
They have made a property of a ftw wolds,
fycli as monarchy, aristocracy, &c. a? d it is
half the employment of their hireling prel's to
ring the changes upon them. Bur we are
happy to lee that these frequent appeals to
the supposed ignorance of the country, are as
ineffectual as they are infultiug.
Whoverfees the conduct of another with
the eyes of an enemy will find matter of
blame. No man will come off clear when his
enemiesaft as his judges. It is on the other
hand no less true } thathe to whom every action
of a man appears wrong, is that man's ene
my—For as there is some defects in the best
man's character, there is some good in the
worst, and he who condemns all the words
thoughts and actions of the latter, is more>the
foe of the man than of his faults. Apply this
remark to our party fcriblers and the fadtion
that supports them. The government of the
United States has, with them, no bright fpor.
It has done nothing praise-worthy. °Its best
arts, or what its admirers call its best, the re
storation of public credit, an adherence to
system an d or der, are termed a curie a
scourge, an oppression. The intention, they
fay too, is worse than the deed.—The very
change of our affairs from adverse to pros
perous and happy, they pretend, does no cre
dit to government, and that prosperity was
intended and is made the engine of deceiving
and corrupting the people in order tl.e mole
certainly to bind in chains.
SEPT. 5, 1792,
Yet theft icribblers have lately, it i.< but hie
ly, dared to fay they are federalrfts, friends of
the republican constitution we enjoy, it'tbe
government is half as bad they pretend they
oaght not to be its -friends. No man is the
friend of what he abhors, and no man will
try to make others abhor what he admires.
Therefore, Hvpocrify, lay ufide your tnaik;
it serves no longerio hide the mark of tiie
beast.
It is devoutly to be wijhed thrt Franc#
may finally lucceed in her form of govein
ment without a King. A great republic,
wifelv constituted and administered so as to
fepuieJifeJibertxwUrPH&ity»M.tanlj { iiom^
violation but from the fear of it, will make
the cause of liberty refpe&able, and in the - ,
end triumphant throughout the civilized part '
of the world. One reflection occim—lt i»
highly interesting to the happiuefsof the bu
man race that great rather than small por
tions of the earth fliould be fubjeft to one go
vernment—provided the many millionsform
ing one nation enjoy a perfectly free eonftir
tntion. There are many obstacles which
small and feeble independent nations oppose
to the diffufion of that principle of the fra
ternity of mankind, so earnestly inculcated by
the Fienph National Aflembly. A great ria
tion is a great family— But fear, jealousy,
rivalfiiip, and the spirit of commercial mono
poly which has afflifled and disgraced thij age
of improvement more than any other rem
nant of barbarjfm build up Alps and Pyrenees '
to separate the fittle independeut States of
the old world. ' The means they adopt to
guard againftevil are the worftofevils. They
arm, and their security against each other re-;
quires taxes and oppreflion.—But a great na
tion not having cause to fear the lofi of .
independent governmeat is left prone to quar- ;
rel with its neighbors.—For surely a free na
tion will not seek conquefts—therefore it i* '.
happy for pofterit/ that America and France"
being great nations will have nothing to fear
—being free will have nothing to wifh—tboir
power and their example will do much to,
wards diffufing over the earth that system of
peace, that fraternity among nations which
will give the greatest poflible scope for the
improvements of.fcience and the happiness of
the people—He therefore that would break
the union of America would blast the hope*,
of mankind.
ARRIVED at the PORT o/THII.A DELPHI A,
IN THE VIA! 1792.
From Foreign Ports.
Ships 136
Barques I
Polacres
Snows
Brigs
Schooners
Sloops
Albany Paper.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Full Jhares Bank U. S. 37 per cent, prem.
(r3T Advertiftiunti, &?c. omitted, in conf.q*tnct
of the lengthy Debate in this day's Gazette, Jhallbc
attended to in our next.
Niwptrt Paper.
COMMUNICATIONS.
SHIP NEWS.
From Ports in tkt V. S.
Ships 23
Barques i
Snows i
I
11
263
107
Brigs 56
Schooners a§6
Sloops 477
Total 843
Total 652
PRICE OF STOCKS.
so/to
>2/4
lijllPay, Subsistence and Cloathing.
1792, 270,374
1793. 7*8.875
Difference
Total fared dob. 624,607
This was the annual £aving he proposed.
In hit calculation, he remarked, he ntg
le&ed the bounty held out to the 1600
men yet to be enlitled. A* he was count
ing by tens and hundred* of thousands,
this furn he did not think worth attending
to.
He concluded, that the decision of this
question would speak the sense of the
house in regard to the exilting fylltm,
and whether there was in the government
a fcriousdefirc to obtain permanent peace,
to defend the frontier effc&ually, and to
provide, without refoiting to new taxes
or loans, for the regular and speedy re
dutlion of the public debt.—An objedl
which seems to be highly desired by the
Secretary of the Trealuty, and all other
disinterested citizens thioughout the
union.
Mi . Hartley declared himfelf againfl:
the object of the motion. He was of o
pinion that at this time, when a treaty of
peace was depending, it would be highly \
dangerous to adopt any step for reducing
our military eftabli(hment. The president
he said, appeared to him to have acted
with the greatest economy in organizing
the forces he was empowered to raise.
He stated the difficulty of raiting troops
in this country, and again infilled on the
impolicy of djlranding those enlisted at
this critiqdl period. A refpeftalsle force
kept up, might produce peace by fpiing,
and in that cafe no ope would regret the
expence of the equipment.
The part of the country from which
the gentleman who made the motion came,
it was true, was not exposed to the incur
sions of the Indians but this was, by no
means the cafe in other paits of the Unit
ed States.
He then adverted to Mr. Steel's argu
ments to prove" regular troops were
unequal to a cdriteft with Indians. There
was no instance in which, he answered, a
body of regular troops had beer, beaten
by an equal number of Indians. The ar
my in the campaign of 1791 was undisci
plined j the only regiment properly dis
ciplined at the time of Geheral St. Clair's
defeat was not in the'engagement ; this
instance therefore of the Indians' success
ihould net, he conceived, be brought in
to view as a proof of the inefficacy of re
gular troops in such a war. It was evi
dent that the troops on the frontiers this
season had afforded very effectual protec
tion to the fiontiers of Pennsylvania and
Virginia.
He dwelt on the impropriety of em
ploying the militia on this service; the dis
tress that the loss of a considerable body
of heads of families in a diftrift would
occailon was too serious an evil to think
light of. Men enliftiug as regulars, on
the other hand, were chiefly adventurers
and tingle men, the loss of whom would
be much less felt.
Mr. Parker rose in favor of the motion.
He adverted to the effects produced by
an encreafe of the (landing forces of this
country; it immediately occasioned a pro
portional inereafe of the armies of our
ealous neighbours to the North and
South'. He mentioned a paper that was
some time since read in the House, a mes
sage or talk from Lord Dorchester to the
Indians; —in it they were told that Prince
Edward, a son of their friend the great
King, had arrived with a chosen band of
warriors to protest them. The Indians,
Jie said, had a higher idea of the military
protedlion of the Biitifh, and would pre
fer it to ours. The Bi itifh were better
acquainted with the effect of military pa
rade on the Indians, and better able with
their veteian ttoops to take advantage of
those feelings. Every effort of outs to
enhance our military reputation, by an
encreafe of forces, would be followed by
a finylar Jlep in the Biitifh colony ; and
we ftiould, in the end, only make war on
our finances. Theßritifh, he dated, were
better able to afford to make a perpetual
{hew of military : it was more confident
with the fpitit of their political indituti
ons, 'A similar system was not well a
dapted to the sentiments of the people
here, where citizen-soldiers were ready to
turn out for something substantial only.
Before this last war with the Indians,
depredations had no doubt been made by
them on our territory, and by our people
on theirs, but nothing serious had occur
red till the war was begun.
He approved of garrisoning those pods
that could afford (helter to the inhabit
ants of the frontiers in c-ife of attack ;
but did not think regular troops adequate
to any other talk in an Indian war. He
infilled on the opinion, that the militia
alone were equal to undertake an offenfive
war against the Indians.
458,501
Mr. Fitzfimons firft spoke of the im
portance of the question. It strikes at a
total alteration of the fyllera adopted to
preserve peace and protest our frontier
citizens. He was not of opinion that
those citizens on the frontiers were Ibtef
to protest the country. The light which,
would be thrown on the fubjeft il> the
couife of the debate, he expe&ed, would
determine the point. He hoped the
question would be amply di(cuffed ; but
in the mean time he was sorry, he said,
to fee an attempt made to influence the
opinions of metnbers by llatements and
Calculations, which he imagined were by
no means accurate. He mentioned an
instance in which they had been placed in
such a point of view as might make an
improper impreflion. The gentleman
dated that the war had cod the Union
upwards of 3,545,000 dollars.
Mr. Steele said in explanation, that he
had afterted, that sum had already been
appropriated or was called for.
Mr. Fitzfimens said the money appro
priated was not all expended, and that
asked for was dill in the power of the
House to grant or not. He could not
positively fay, at firft view of the gentle
man's calculations, whether they were all
equally erroneous; but this instance, he
conceived, was not much in favor of his
accuracy. Circumstances might very well
account for a difference in the expence of
an army ; troops near Fort Wafhingtpp
could not be provided at the fame rate as
in more populous parts of the dates.—
The depending treaty of peace, he de
clared, raised a great objc&ion in his
mind to the objedt of the motion. If on
consideration, however, it should appear
that the frontiers could be better defended
without regulars, and a valuable saving
made, he should be in favor of the mo
tion. He reminded the gentleman, that
when he quoted the amount of the saving
he proposed, he had forgot to take into
view the expence of the five Kentucky
expeditions. •
Mr. Steele said he had mentioned that
these might each cost 30,000 dollars.
Mr. White expressed his dislike to re
gular {landing fotces, and that he wiflied
more use had been made of the militia a
gainil the Indians; yet he was averse to
a reduction, unless a more effe&ual plan
of defence was offered as a substitute to
that now in use.
It was moved to refer the motion to a
committee of the whole.
Mr. Steele expressed his wi(h to fee th<
obje£t of the motion difcniTed in commit
tee. He £aid something on the accuracy
of his statements, which had been quef--
tioned, and again mentioned the source
from which they were drawn.
Mr. Williamfon, as a proof of the ef
ficacy of militia in opposition to the In
dians, cited the instance of Major Adair's
refinance to a body greatly superior in
numbers.
Mr. Smith, S. C. declared himfelJCa
gainft the objefl of the resolution. The
President, he said, had the power to dis
band any part of the army, when thei:
service was no longer wanted ; and his
confidence in the President (a feeling
which, from the unanimous.vote of te-e
---le&ion, he had recently recewed, feetned
to be very prevalent) led him to feel well
fatisfied that they would not be kept in
service unnecessarily one moment.
Mr. Dayton next rose. He said he
was in favor of referring the motion to a
committee of the whole House. He
should not, he declared, have risen, if
he had not heard from the two members
from North-Carolina, the ftrangeftj per
version of argument, and the mod ertra
ordinary kind of rcafoning he ever re
membered to have heard. The member
who spoke tirlt, from North-Carolina, de
cried every idea of energy and efficiency
in regular disciplined troops, considering
them not only inefficient, but contempti
ble, when employed agamft Indians, and
to confirm his aflertion had instanced the
expedition and defeat under General St.
Clair, when it was well known that there
were not in fafi two companies of regular
disciplined infantry in the army of that
General. The other member had as ex
252
travag-antly'commended tne mck- u . , ;
and extolled them for, heir effi
ciency and success in Indian warfare, o
which Major Adair, in a late ren <= ount "
with afuperior body of savages, had, he
said, furnirtied an evidence.
In answer to this, Mr. D. was com
pelled to remark, what he fliould olhtr
wile never have done, that the affair al
luded to, made on his mind a very dif
ferent impression, and led to a conclusion
diredlly contrary to that which the gen
tleman had drawn fiom it—rhe major,
had unquestionably been surprized, and as
i unquestionably been beaten, and fuffered
the capture of alniolt all his horses
and other property in his camp; but
what he conceived to bellill woi fe,
it appeared that at the commence
nient of the acftion, about half of his
men deserted him,and secured them
selves within the gairifon. Thisin
ftance of the prowess of irregulars
fele»ftcd by the N.C. member lofup
port his arguments would, Mr.Day
ton believed, be found upon enqui
ry to be an unfortunate one.
As he was upon the floor, Mr.
Dayton observed, that he could not
refrain from taking some further
notice of the laboured speech which
the house had just heard from the |
mover of the proposition under con.
(ideration. He should, he said, be
short, for no member could be sup
posed to Le prepared to answer a
speech which certainly no one could
have expe<3ed to have heard within
thele walls ; but as he thought it
probable such another one would
never again be uttered there, he
could not omit a remark or two
upon it. It was admirably calcu
lated, and would seem to have been
designed, to prejudice the people of
the United States against the whole
adminiflration of the government.
It would donbtlefs be recollected
that but a few days ago, this very
gentleman was ftrenuoully contend
ing for propriety, decorum and de
cency in debate, which he complain
ed was not observed by gentlemen
who were opposed to the report of
the committee on the failure of the
western expedition ; liotwithlland
ing this, not content with levelling
the mult unbounded censure againlt
the head of the war department, he
had lavished the molt virulent abule
upon the President of the United
States particularly, and upon a large
majority of both lioilfes of Congrels.
The member had produced a va
riety of arithmetical Itaiements and
calculations, the accuracy and truth
of which not only had been questi
oned, but denied by other members
who had replied to him. One thing
Mr. Dayton said he could not avoid
remarking, which was that that
gentleman had presented as unac
countablc and mysterious, the en
creafed appropriations for the war
department for 91, 92, and 93, as if
it was in any wife ft range, that 2eoo
men should require more ordnance,
hof'pital and quarter-master's stores
than 1000, or that jooo men should
require more than them both. Yet
from flatements of that nature, the
gentleman affected to believe, and
boldly declared that there mult be
the grofl'eft abuses in the adminis
tration. If the annual encreafe of
our expences for protetJling the
frontiers, deserved the censure that
had been To liberally bestowed, it
ought to fall diretftly oil the legis
lature who, Mr. Dayton said, had
directed it by their Jaws, and not
upon the executive who were mere
ly the instrument to carry those
laws into effetft. So much for the
speech, but with refpeifl to the mo
tion which called for a very differ
ent answer, and more mature consi
deration, he should onJy add, that
however he might favor a reduction
of our military establishment, if the
queilion stood upon its own merits
alone, unconnected with some re
cent circumstances, he should think
it his duty to oppose the nteafureat
the present, as it might tend I6ein
barrafs the executive in their ptir
fuits and profpecfts of pacification,
and because he well knew it to be the
teniper of the i ndians, and indeed of
every other people,to rife in their de
mands in the fame proportion that
their treating enemy quieted their fears &
leflened their danger. If our establish
ment was determined to be leflened, It
would be known to the savages before
the treaty, —in confequeuc of which, h«
did not doubt, they would become more
extravagant and insolent in their terms r
and that of course what was now recom
mended as an (Economical saving to the
public, would eventually prove to be pio
fufion in the extreme.
Mr. Wadl'worth expreflld himfelf in a
few words againll the resolution.
Mr. Ames did justice to the gentle
man's industry in the colleiiion of mate
rials in support of his motion. An oppor
tunity, he hoped would be given, to go
over the giound he had f<> ably traversed*
He fa id something of the neceflity of
(lability in the measures of every govern
ment ; on the importance of the question
which the fate of the resolution was to de
cide, and hoped it would meet an ample
difcuflion.
The motion for referring the refutation
to a committee of the whole was agreed
to, and Wednesday was appointed to
take it up. Adjourned.
The Membeu of the
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERICA,
ARE defircd to take Notice, that the time
for which their Di rectors were
will expire, ac. ording to the Coriftitution, on
the second Tuesday (being the eighth dayjof the
prcfent month—-when another Ele&ion for Fif
teen Directors is to be held, at their Office,
No. 119, South Fi ont-ftreet, at 10 o'clock, a. m.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry,
January i. 1793. __
TO BE SOLD,
That well-known Place, called
South-Point,
LYING at the end of Sinipuxent Neck, on
the Eaftein Shore of Maryland, within two
miles of the Inlet, in Worcester County, in the
said State, being the firft landing for vcflels that
trade in there. From the fnuation of the place,
it is convenient tor filh. clams and oyftcis, is
optn to the Cea, and has every conveniency that
could be wilh d for. The foil is cxcelUnt for
Indian corn, wheat or flax, is natural to clover,
and has a good marsh pa ft ure tor flock.
Any perfrin defirousof purchasing, may know
the terms by applying to Asftieton Humphreys, Esq.
in Philadelphia—Mr. Benjamin Purnell,in Indian
Town, Worcetter County—or to Capt. Littleton
Robins, near the place.
fan. 2,
, RUN-AWAY
FRO I'M THE SUBSCRIBER, THE 12th APR*. L,
A NEGRO BOY, named Zcb \ Aim and tall,
fixtccn years old; came to Samuel Lipin
~ * on the ijrhy taid his name
cot's ftt
was Henry, and left that place the 27th May.—-
On the 27th day of June, he was taken up in
Bucks County, and carried before a Magistrate,
said he was free, and that he lived on the Suf
quch'dnnah—that a person by the name of Abra
ham Prall, took him three days journey from
home, and turned him adrift with one dollar—
He asked the Justice foe a pass to go to his fa
ther, and nothing appeared to the contrary—
He lived with one Thomas Paxwell till the 19th
of this instant, and then made hts rfcare from
him ; he called his name Peter JohnJlon —had
on an old G'ey Coating Round Jacket, lined
with icd baize; an old pair Leather B ceches,
and an old Felt Hat. Whoever takes up said
Boy,and brings him to Jacob Mersereau,oh
Statcn-Ifldnd, (hall receive TWENTY DOL
LARS, with reasonable charges, paid by
JACOB MERSEREAU, Lieut. Col.
1.1 W
Dec. 29.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Philadelphia, November 20, 2792.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States are hereby informed, that according
to the ilatute of incorporation, a general elf&joa
for twenty-five Dirett<»rs will be held at the Bank
ef the United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Mouday the seventh day of January next, at
ten o'cock in the forenoon.
And ptirfuan to the clevtnth fc&ron of the
Bye-Laws,the Stockholders of the fa id Bank are
hereby'notificd to assemble in general meeting
at the lame place;on Tuesday the eighthday 01
January uexi, at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President and Directors,
JOHN KF.AN, Gaftiier.
To the Public.
Subscribers having been appointed a
X committee of the Board of the Truflees of
the University of North-Carolina, for the pur
pose of receiving proposals fjom such gentlemt n
as may intend to undertake the inftru&ion of
youth in that institution, bake the opportunity
of making known to the public their wish that
such gentlemen should lignity their inclinaiion
to the (übferbers.
The objects to which it is contemplated by
the Board to lurn the attention of the ftudt nts,
on the firft establishment. art —The study of
Languages, particularly the En-glifti—Hiftory,
ancient and modern—the Belle-lettres—Logic
and Moral Pnilofophy—the knowledge of the
Mathematics and Natural Philosophy—Agricul
ture and Botany, with the principles of Archi
tect* re.
Gentlemen convcrfant in these branches of
Science and Literature, and who can be well re
commended, will receive verv handsome encou
ragement by (he Board. The exercises of the
inttitution will commence as early as poffiblo
after the completion of the buildings of the Uni
versity, which arc to be cmitra&eji for immedi
acy. SAMUEL ASHE,
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAYE,
DAVID STONE,
rpam
SAM. M'CORKLES