&OZ&U 0
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENf/O, No. 34, NOPTfi FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHI A
[No. 67 of Vol. IV.]
Foreign Affairs.
PARIS, November
THE King was reported for an
hour and a half on Wednes
day to have made his escape from
the temple. The millake arose
from his omitting to (hew himfelf
as ufua'l at the relief of the guard,
and was removed upon his appear
ance on being called to.
Sixteen hundred Louis d'ors,found
in rouleaus in the Thoilleries, have
been sent to the national treasury.
The community of Paris have )ent
their statue of liberty to that of Ver
sailles, for the purpose of a civic fete
in the lartev place.
Several Jacobin {ocienes in the
departments, have declared their
difnpprobation of the attachment of
chnt ihewn by Paris to the fadion
of iMa> ar.'
The names of all the principal
flreets in Paris will shortly be chang
ed. Two of them will take the
name of Rue <1 e Lisle, Rue de Thi
onville ; others will take the names
of departments. The execution of
the decree pronounced for the de
ftrnilion of Longwy has been sus
pended.
The Savoyards at Paris gave a ci
vic fete on account of the liberation
of their country, oil Saturday.
Mi CHamboTi moved in the nati
onal affemhly, "that the two (lamps
at present used for aflignats, one of
which reprel'euts the figure of Lou
isXVl. (hou)d be changed—rhefirtt
to be a Rising Sun, representing the
genius of France, and the exergue
Equality, Liberty ; the second to
he Fasces and an oak branch, with
a cap reversed, and on the exergue
' French Republic, Fir ft year of Li
berty.'— Decreed.
Le Cletc having furnifhed foine
firnple medicines to Masia Antoni
ette for her daughter, to take away
a fort of excrefcente upon her cheek,
was interrogated beforp the com
mons. He, after ftatingthe nature
of the drugs, added, he thought it
a pity so masterly a work of nature
fliuuld be disfigured—Theprefident
auf'wered hiin in the hateful cant of
those demagogues " Know you
that the fl<>>i of the serpent is a) fa
one of the ir.oft beautiful of na
ture's productions !"
M. Antonnelle, the late Mayor of
Aries, who had been elected Mayor
of Paris, has declined the office on
account of his ill health.
LONDON, Nov. 3
One circumstance relating to the
Chinese Embafly is worthy of re
maik.—lt is enatfted by the laws of
China, that if any native (hall pre
futne to interfere in any manner
whatever in the politics of Europe,
with respeCt to (.hina, he (ball in
stantly undergo a capital puni(h
ment ; for which reason the Chi
nese Missionaries, who are to accom
pany Lord Macartney, did not dare
to render rhemlelres obnoxious to
the laws of their country, by writ
ing, with their own hands the fair
copy of the translation of the letter
intended to be prefeuted by our
court to the Emperor of China,
l his circumltance naturally involv
ed the conductors of the Embaliy in
a considerable embarraflment, from
which, however, they were at length
cxtricated b_\ Dr. Antonio Montncci,
a linguilt of this city, who, having
extended his philological researches
even to the fingnlar and mylteiions
language <>t China, had become fuf
ticienily conversant with the ftruc
tare and combination of its charac
ters, to tranferibe the original let
ter, whirh had bten previondvcom
pofed by the tntiiinnaries.
Saturday, January 19. 1795.
The late decree of death to all
emigrants who returnto France, e«
ven those who notoriously fled from
certain maflacre had they not be
come fugitives, is, for the bonor of
all mankind, held in .nniverfal ab
horrence and execration.
Mr. Pitt's Million Sinking Fund
has discharged nearly ten Millions
of.the public debt within the space
of fix yeais and a quarter, as tnay be
seen by the following ftatenirnt : —
Account of the Total of Capital
Stock redeemed by the Conitniifi
oners for the redaitiori of the Na
tional Debt on the ill of Novem
ber, l 792.
3 per Cent. Consols — 3,487,625
3 per Cent. Reduced - 2,971,600
Gld South Sea — — 1,667,400
New ditto — 1,288,800
S<|uth Sea 1 751 — 596,400
The Ropels threats to the people
of France, reminds us of an old Spa
nish Fable, in which a Fly rells an
Ox, that if he dare tread on him he
would certainly sting him.
The gentleman who, not long
finoe, received one hundred guineas
to return one guinea per day until
the Duke of Brunfwick arrived at
Paris, has offered a thoufar.d guineas
to be off the bargain.
The despotic Princes all over Eu
rope, look towards France at present
:>s a Thief looks at the execution of
a brother in iniquity. " It is what
we mult all come to."
Mr. Burke has invited the Abbe
Maury to come over and spend a
few weeks in some place where the
detested principles of the Revoluti
on never entered. Their choice at
present is limitted to Salilbury Spire
or Edvftone light-house.
Mr. Kite, in his ingenious practi
cal efl.»y on the recovery of the ap
parently dead, likewii'e observes,
that electrical Ihocks are to be ad
mitted as the test of any remains of
animal life.
What fort of Republic shall France
ejiablifh ?
Thisqueflion, toadopt the French
Anglicil'm, is the order of the Day.
It is a great queltion upon which
the two parties in the Convention
are now at ilfue. M. Chabot is the
warm advocate for a federative Re
public, or, as lie calls it, a govern
ment of Municipalities. By this
scheme he proposes that there (hould
be about 80,000 diltinCt govern
ments in France,each of them forin
irg a Municipality without any
check or control in its own district,
but the whole to be represented in
National Convention by a Congress,
who (hould have the general lcgifla
tive power, the levying of taxes, the
declaration of defenfive war,&c.&c.
The scheme of a federative Repub
lic has hitherto made few proielites.
The arguments advanced againfl it
are llrong, and indeed nnanfwera
ble. A federation, fay they,refults
from the union of nations or pro
vinces frparately feeble ; but who
e>er thought of difmembei ing one
strong nauon, and dividing it into
chequers to preserve its unity ? All
federative governments have bro't
into conjunction their diftridt inter
ests, genius, manners, nfages, and
generally their modes of legidaiion
and administration. lis imperfecti
on confilts therefore in its hetero
geneous particles.—lt is not an en
tire fnfion of one jet, it is an amal
gam.— It is not one force, it is the
junction of several forces.— It is not
a (iinple, but a compound machine,
and the action of the wheels and
movements not being uniform,
inftanraneous and voluntary, as
must necefl'arily arise frcm unequal
265-
powers and efforts,it cannot be com
pared to the simple frame, and re
gular operation of a single state,
where all the atftions are produced
by one central spring, and where
all the powers and willies are unit
ed, and, if I may use the expression,
twilled together.
■ One of the grandest ideas that lias
been executed by men, is the over
throw of the provinces of France,
and the creation of departments.
This superb division of a country,
does honor to the eighteenth centu
ry and to the French people. By
what blindness do we now propole
to re-ascend to provinces .'
All this is the mere ephemoraj
projedt of some disturbers, who yet
hope to diftraft the people from the
true objetfts of their contemplation.
But we do not fee any hazard of the
concutfion of parties coming to an
explosion. We find the following
article in Condorcet's report of the
proceedings of the Convention. It
is interesting, because it follows the
insinuation which he threw out on
£.9,811,805
Brifldt's party.
" On the march that the Conven
tion (hall pursue ; if we may be al
lowed to anticipate its future by the
picture of its present condu<s, and
by the public opinion, the result of
their deliberations will be good and
peaceful. The Convention will not
offer to the people the afflicting
fpediacle of iiiteltine divisions, as
they have no longer contending in
terests to combat, and as there no
longer exiits any dangerous chiefs
in power, in fortune, in credit, a
round whom the malcontents crthe
ill-intentioned might rally thetn
felves. Enmities,proscriptions, and
particular paifions will not form
what is called parties. There may
be disputes, but there cannot be di
visions. In a word, the genius of
the Convention is good ; but the
public opinion which observe* it,
and which will have influence in
I'pite of the Convention, is ftrll bet
ter, and the men, gifted with some
talents, and with true force of cha
racter, the only men who are pro
per to influence the delHny of the
Republic, know well that the only
glory that they can obtain is that
attached to the title of a good citi
zen, and that all which has the air
of party, will neceflarily disappear
as a vain phantom before the intel
ligence and the power of the peo
ple."
It is impoflible to travel far in lhis
country without being powerfully
(truck by the unequivocal marks of
great and unexampled prosperity
which every where prefeut them
selves. Habitations comfortable &
neat are every where riling up,
where before was barren solitude ;
hamlets are rising into villages, Til
lages into towns, towns into cities,
where there is the Itnalleft impulle
of the manufacturing fpirir, or that
of commerce, into fonicthing that
would bid lair to rival the metro
polis, had not that wonderfi'l body
iifelf ir.creafed for years part with
a rapidity beyond them all. Yet
the government wants reforming,
we ate told. In a garden where
every plant flourifbes, and the pro
duce exceeds calculation, and even
imagination, who will be perfuafled
i hat there is gross mismanagement ?
St. Jamfs's, Otft. 2J.
This day the foreign iNiinifters
hereafter mentioned had their firft
private audiences of her Majesty :
The Baron Jacobi, Envoy Extraor
dinary and Miniiter Plenipotentiary
from (he King of Prolfia, and Tho
mas Pinckney, Minister Plenipoten
tiary front! the United States of Ame
rica.
PROSPERITY OF ENGLAND
fso
[Whole No. 589;]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
SATURDAY, January J.
do (I TIPHTATroN OF THE
DEBATE oh MR. STEELE'S MOTION,
For reducing tlie Army.
MR. MURRAY said at so late a ftagc of
the debate it would be improper to de
tain the committee; and had he heard one
position of the gentleman from North-Caro-
Una attended to by any other, lie would have
held bim'elf inexcusable in calling the atten
tion of the committee to its refutation—ex
cept tl* ealculatiorrsCTterert into by the gen
tleman from Noftli-Carolina, and ®ifw«!ed
by those of the gentleman from Connecticut,
which were all irrelative to the point in ifl\ie,
[ he had heard but one-new poistion advanteil
1 on this fobjeft which had been so amply dif
j cuifed by every member, for at least thtee
I weeks last session. The position te which he
I alluded was as long as one efta
| blifhmenrwas kept up in or.e coi;ccntercd
point, there the Indian i would concentre, ajiri
thence is deduced the conclusion that the
great combination of the fav ages was a c4i.-
sequence of the ar my which we kept up. On
this reasoning much ftrel's had been laid 'by
that gentleman, and by molt who had ftlp
ported Iris motion—and they agteed that by
diminifhiirg our eftabiifhment and difiufing
our material] of defence, the Indians would
be disjointed and cease their combined ope
rations.— Nothing he conceived could be
more fallacious than any reasoning which mil
took effects for causes. He would observe,
and the gentleman must admit, that the mode
of our defence had been a ccnfequence of the
operation of the lavages and not a cattfe cf
their combination.—The history of Indian
warfare from Braddock's defeat up to the
year eighty-four could furnifli little matter
of instruction on the prelent situation of things
—before that period no cause existed that
could forcibly attract the savages to a eenter,
or give aftivitv or duration to their combi
nations m great numbers. —But since the re.
volution a cause did exist in the neighbour
hood of the present scene of operation, over
which we toave no controiil, and whioh he had
no fort of doubt had produced the effects a -
gainst which tile eftablifoment is to ast —
That cause, which it was bnneceffary but to
allude to, had undoubtedly planned the mek
fures—infpii'ed the hoilility—and provided
the means of Indian warfare { it had organ
ized a set of tribes hitherto dispersed in'
action, or had given a formidable method to
those who some years since were without
method, andjwhoonly up a kind of incuY
ftve war, and a running fire along the fron
tier.—ln these times the mode of defence
was accommodated to the mode of offence ;
and when no well organized attack was made,
less (kill and combination of defence were re
quifite —But now the policy of another pow
er gives energy and system to the tribes*— it
concentres thole powers which were dispersed,
and gives permanency to what was before
temporary and inconstant; our mode of de
fence opposed fyflem to f) Item—and perma
nent defence to the appearances of perma
nent combinations. Militia woodsmen would
do in the old incurfive war, but w ere unfit
for that fort of war that acted against hosti
lities which were permanent and organized—
for these garrisons uniting the allurements of
traffic with the refpeliability of arms were
necefTary—and woodsmen who could not
leave their families for more than a mere ex
cuifion of forty days were not proper. "While
he was up he would remark that what ever
had been said of (landing armies, though per
fectly true abftrattedly taken, did in no point
touch on the present queition.—We are in a
state of war, and have an army and mult
havi one; there was no more resemblance
between a Handing army and an army, as is
ours, raised for adtual defence, than there i*.
between a cadelion and an owl—the one a
thing of ill omen and uiineceffary but for
works of darkness ; the other a creature that
took its complexion from the moment.—A
Handing army exists beyond the laws of rea
sonable necefuty ; our eftabliihment was dic
tated by absolute neceflity, is lioiitted in num
bers and duration, and is in all refpedts con
lidered but as the engine of protection against
the hostile Indians. Those, he observed, who
supported the resolution had a great advan
tage over its oppnfers, in the freedom with
which they could attack a fyfteni which was
formed partly from public and partly from
confidential irformation. In detenditig this
fyfteia tlje- ep:"ly he felt himiVlf trammeled
c-~ ;
'-*■ vperpetually by a natural tendency to use those
argument? in its support which he had drawn
from confidential sources #f information last
session; while the doors were (hut —but felt
the propriety of retraining that impulle, and
would only call on members to recollect the
view the fubjeft had been held in at a time
when all the information was a fair source of
debate- He hoped that as there certainly
now was no profpeft of peace in che spring,
and as the President had the power to derive
every advantage from the employment of
expert woodsmen under the law past last ses
sion, that the resolution would not be agreed
ts.
Mr. Williamfon did not entirely approve of
the motiori in it* present form; the blanks
might be so filled, he thought, as to import a
thing opposite to his wilhes—they night im
port a discharge of the troops already raised.
He believed his colleagae had no such desire;
he thought the measure would be improper,
but he wilhed not to have a regiment of offi
cers without soldiers—he wished to fix a time
at which the recruiting service fiiould cease,
and the fiipernumerary officers (hould be dis
charged. As he intended to move that the
proposition might be To amended, he should
consider it in that ligbt-«-and he believed the
measure would not be imprudent nor incon
sistent with the molt vigorous meafmes of
defence or offence.
It Ihould/be remembered that the House of
Representatives, when they had the bill be
fore them which last winter pafl'ed into a law
' for defending the frontiers, sent it to the se
nate with a clause importing that officers be
low the rank of field officers, lhould not be
put into cominiflion any fafter than troops
could be enlisted. The Senate adhering to
their privilege, refuted to agree to that claule
in the bill, and it became necessary immedi
ately to commiflioH the officers for jooo men,
some of whom, if fame speaks truth, not co
vetous of honor, are content with their payj
without having raised three men. By the
proposed amendment, the officers only would
be dismissed, whom molt of us wilhed never
to liave seen 111 commiflion.
Tile proposed regulation has been ccnfured
as implicating some kind of censure on the ex
ecutive. He viewed it in a different light.—
The executive had done what was proper and
neoelTary at the time. But if it should ap-
pear that other meai'ures would fit the change
of circuniftances, he did not fee why thof'e
measures lhould not be adopted. It should be
recollected that during the last winter, when
the estimate of 5000 men necessary for the
defence of our frontier was handed to Con
grafs, there was no militia law. A well armed
effective militia, that palladium of liberty,
had once and again been recommended by the
President to the attention of Congress : but
Congress, from year to year, as if they wilhed
for a (landing army, had negle&ed the mili
tia. Towards the close of the last session in
deed they pa(Ted a law. He hoped he might
without offence call it the shadow of a Jaw.-—
It was faying in a few words that the several
states might have a good militia if they pleas
ed ; and if they pleased, they might have none
at all. Was the executive to trust the de
fence of a country tp a militia formed under
such a law !—He thought not —But he ob
served, that since the last winter it had come
to be generally known, that a class of our fel
low citizens exist on the frontiers, who are at
all times ready to serve, not as drafted mili
tia, but as volunteers. These are the men,
said he, by whom the Indians must be chas
tised, or we shall never have peace. They
are the belt woodsmen and marksmen, and
they have no profefiional interest in spinning
out the war. He said he must repeat the ob
servation, that volunteers of the militia are
the only troops for vigorous offenfive opera
tions. Figure to yourselves an army of re-
gulars creeping through the wiidernefs with
all its cannon and other military apparatus in
chafe of a naked savage, who fees it without
being seen. It is an elephant in chafe of a
wolf! The troops already railed may be
pretty well disciplined before the season for
a&ion—they are fufficient with the co-opera
tions of the militia, to take a poll,.and build
forts where they please—every thing else is
beyond their power, if they were not five but
fifteen thousand. They will never fee an In
dian unless he chutes to be seen He wished
to be indulged in a single observation refpeft
-ing a cafe in which it was said the other day,
the militia had been surprised. He was lorry
that his naming Major Adair had produced
the remark ; he would nevertheless venture
to repeat the cafe an instance of vigilante
and bravery. The Major believing there
was an enemy at hand, hadvifited all his pods
at miduight in person ; his Lieutenant, Madi
son, before the dawn of day, routed all the
men, telling them that the Indians weie com
ing. The Major wirtiing to leave the ground
before day-light, called in the sentinels,—but
the Indians -rushing in with them, gave a
heavy fire before there was light bv which
they could be seen. The Major, he said, had
not the merit, as he believed, of having been
a Continental officer, but had the merit,* not
less honorable, of having served bravely in the
militia. He qeeflionetl on the whole whether
any of the green troops to be recruited next
spring or fmnmer, will make so good a de
fence as Major Adair's militia had made
They had taken scalp for scalp, though they
fought agaii.ft theodds.of three to one. He
prayed it might be remembered, that his ideas
were not founded on any hopes of sudden peace
with the Indians; on the contrary, every mo
tion of the Indians, and everv measure taken
by those who had most influence over the In
dians, induced him to jegard an Indian war
as the perpetual tax of at least one million per
anuum. It is fortunate, as he conceived,
that the United States know the source of
their misfortunes—and if they are compelled
to ipend'one million per annum iu oppofmg a
furag# enemy who seems to be bunted upon
them, perhaps they may 'be taught to indem
nify themselves by refufing to expeod several
millions which they can ealily faye. If a per
petual tax on this bead nrnlt be reifed, found
policy will readily point to the proper obje£fc
of taxation : but this mult remain over for
our futceflors. In the meai» time, believing
that the troops already rai ed are fufficient to
maintain every fort that is or maybe erected,
and being confident that; volunteers nrAy be
found at any time fufficient, if it lhall b$ ne
cefTary, to extirpate every hostile tribe of In
dians—he /houlci vote for the proportion with
the proposed amendment.
.Mr. Wadfworth closed the debate by reply
ing particularly to that part of Mr.
speech, in which he controverted ion re of
Mr. NVadfworth's ftateinent.
Mr. Wadfworth (aid, in the Act of May
2d, 1792, 600,500 dollars were appropriated
for various purposes, of which 70,000 dollars
were for the quarter matter's department,
which sum added to jo ( ooo, appropriated by
the ast of December 24, 1791, make the 120
thou'and dollars as he had before stated—not
finding the estimates in the Clerk's office, on
which these appropriations were made.—l
went, said Mr. Wadfworth, to the War-Of
fice, and took copies of both estimates, which
I have in my hand—and there can be no doubt
of the fact, as it has been ftatid by me. Mr.
' Wadfworth added some general remarks re
fpefling militia and regular troops—the me
rits of the former, he never meant to depre
ciate —he had lieen witness to many brilliant
aftidns in which they had been engaged. On
the present occasion, his wifli was to impress
on the house the fnpenority of a regular cfta
blilhed force for the lervice now under confi
de ratipn. ,
SATURDAY, Jam- 12. I
The Yeai and Nap on Mr. Fttzfimom' rtjfdutikp Jot
loaning the bitlancet due Jtont the United States iff '
individual Stat*.
The fa'rd resolutions being under considera
tion,
A motion was made and seconded to a
mend the firft resolution contained in the said
motion, by adding to the end thereof, the
following proviso, to wit:
" Provided, that no such loan (hall be o
peijed in any state without the afient of the
iegiflature thereof, by an ast approving the
njeafure."
It was resolved in the affirmative, Yeas
38 —Nays 23.
YEAS.
Messrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot,
S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Clark, Dayton, Fitz
fimons, Gerry, Goodhue, Gordon, Hartley,
Hillhoufc, Huger, Key, Kitchell, Kittera,
Lawrance, Learned, Leonard, Livennore,
Madison, Muhlenberg, Niles, Page, Sedgwick,
Sylvester, W. Smith,Sterrett, SturgevSump
ter, Thatcher, Tucker, Venable, Wadlwortli,
Ward and White—
NAYS.
MeJTis. A(he, Baldwin, F'ndlsv, Giles,
Oilman, Greenup, Gregg, Grove,
Heifter, Lee, Macon, Mercer, Milleflge,,
Moore, Murray, Orr, Parker, Sclioonmaker,
Steele, Treadwell, Williamfon, & Willis 23.
And the question being put, that the Houie
do agree to the .'aid firft resolution, amended.
—It was resolved in the affirmative, Yeas
34—Nays 28.
Y E A S.
MelTrs. Ames, Barnwell, Ben foil, Boudiriot,
S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Clark, Dayton, Fitz
fimons, Gerry, Gilnian, Goodhue, Gordon,
Hartley, Hillhoufe, Huger, Key, Kittera,
Law ranee, Learned, Leonard, Liverinore,
Muhlenberg,Sedgwick, Sylvester, Smith, Ster
rett, Sturges, Sumpter, Thatcher, Tucker,
Wad (worth, Ward, and White—34.
NAYS.
Meflrs. Alhe, Baldwin, Findley, Giles,
Greenup, Gregg, Griffin, Grove,' Heifter,
Kitchell, Lee, Macon, Madifbn, Merctr
Milledge, Moore, Murray, Niles, Orr, Page,
Parker,Schoonmaker, J. Smith,Steele,Tread
well, Venable, Williamfon, and Willis—3B.
Wednesday, January 16.
The order of the day on the of
the officers of the late continental army being
called for, the House went into a committee of
the whole on the fame—]\tfr. B. Bourn in the.
chair. The proposition offered yesterday by Atr.
Gerry, and amended by Mr. Clark, was read
by the Chairman ; after a lengthy speech.by
Mr. Boudinot, in opposition to the proposition,
the question being put, it was negatived.
Mr. Giles then offered the following, vizi
Resolved, as the opinion of this committee,
That the prayer of the memorjaliftfcis reasona
ble, and that provision ought to be made for the
payment of such sums to the original holders of
the proper debt of the United States, as njay
have been saved by the terms of the loan mide
under the ast to provide for the debt of the U.
States, calculating 6 per cent, at 20f. in the
pound, and other species of paper at a propor
tionate value: provided that where any origin
al creditor shall have fubferibed to the loan pr li
poid by the ad to provide for the debt of tiile
United States, a sum not less than the funt ori
ginally flipulated, such creditor shall not be en
titled to the beucfit of this provision—And tljat
when a less sum shall have been so fubfeft'bed,
there shall be a proportional redn&ion of his
claim to such benefit.
A.'ter a considerable debate An this proposi
tion, Mr. ClarU moved that it (hould be divid
ed. This motion being seconded,
1 lie question was taken on the firft clause of
the proposition, ending with the word reafrna
tlr. This was negatived, nine members only
rifmg in the affirmative.
It was then moved, that it be resolved, as the
opinion of this committee, That the prayers of
the memorials from officers of several of the
2 66-
lines of the late continental army, cannot be
granted.
This motion was agreed to.
The committee then tofc, and reported the
last resolution to the Houle.
On the motion to adopt this resolution, the
ayes and noes being demanded, are as follow :
A r £ s.
MelT. Lee,
Leonard,
Livcrmore,
Macon,
Moore,
Muhlenberg,
Orr,
Sedgwick,
Melt Ames,
Benfon,
S. Bourne,
Boudinot,
Bourn,
Clark,
Barnwell,
Find ley,
Fitzfimons,
Gilraan,
Goodhue,
Gordon,
Gregg,
Grove,
Heifter,
Hillhoufe,
Jacobs,
Key,
Kitchell,
Kittcra,
Lawrance,
Learned,
N 0
MefT. Afne,
Baldwin,
Gerry,
Giles,
Greenup,
Thursday, January 17.
The petition of John Miller and others, pray
ing compensation for services and supplies, was
read, and referred to the Secretary of the Trea
sury. »
In Committee of the Wbole\ Mr. Key in the Chair.
A bill to continue in force for a limited time,
and so amend the a6t providing for the means
of mterceurfe between the United States and
foreign nations, was taken into confederation.
The bill was read through and, then consider
ed by paragraphs. No amendment being pro
posed, t
The committee rose and reported the bill,
which was ordered to be engrofied for a third
reading. •*<'.»
The House then took into consideration, the
bill to regulate trade and intercourse with the
Indian tribes.
Mr. Madison's amendment, which had been
ordered to be printed, was taken into confedera
tion. It is in the following words—viz.
Strike out the eighth Section, in the words following.
" And be it further enabled, That no fa'.eof land,
made by any nation or tribe of Indians 'within the
United States,fhall be valid to any p erf on or pcrfons,
or to any slate, "whether such fate may have the right
of pre-emption of such land or not, unless the fame
shall be made, and duly executed, at some public treaty
held for that purpofc, under the authority of the Uni
ted States
And in lieu thereof insert toe following :
And be it enabled, That no person Jhall be capable
of acquiring any title, in laiv or equity, to any lands
beyond the Indian boundaries, and ivithiu those of the
United States, by purchase, gift or other-wife, from
the Indians, holding or claiming the fame ; and that
it Jhall be a misdemeanor in any person, punifbable by
fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of a jury, to
obtain, accept, or direflly or indircftly, to treat for
any title tofuch lands from the ftid Indians, or any
other for them. And that, ivhete any such Indians
Jhall, of their own accord, desire to fell any part of
their lands, and it Jhall be deemed for the interejl of
the United States, that a pur chafe Jhall be made, the
JameJhall be done no otherioife than by treaty or con
vention , to be entered into pursuant to the conjlitution ;
the lands fopurchafed, to enure to the use of whoever
may have the right of pre-emption thereto, % andJhali
pay the price thereof.
Mr. Madison observed, that misunderstand
ings, quarrels and wars with the Indians had
originated from the circumflance of persons hav
irig obtained, through fraud or other improper
means, possession of the lands belonging to the
Indians. This consideration rendered it highly
important that thre whole business (hould be un
der the absolute and sole dire*stion of the public
authority, in order to guard effe&ually against
the fatal confequenees which may result to the
public by being precipitated into a war, thro*
the arts of unprincipled persons, who while the
public are made to sustain great calamities, often
fin 4 means taextricate themselves from bearing
their proportion of the inconveniences and ex-
pences.
Several alterations were moved and made
in the propefed fe&ion—among others,
The words " at the discretion of a jury" on
motion of Mr. Livermore, were struck out. The
fame gentleman moved to expunge these words,
" And it {hall be deemed for the interest of the
" United States, that a purchase shall be made."
This motion, after fonie debate, was agreed to.
It was then proposed by Mr. Clark, that the
motion fliould be divided. The firft question
was for Unking out the Bth fe&ion.
Mr. Barnwell obje&ed to striking out. He
conceived that the original fetftion was as com
prehenllve as the other ; that it was better word
ed, and liable to fewer exceptions than thefub
vttitute, as being more definite; for not wit h
flanding the latter is longer, yet sales made pur
suant to treaties held under an authority not ex
plicitly pointed out, would be liable to cavil and
levifion; and the persons holding a treaty for
the purpose of making purchases, are expoied to
incurring the penalty.
Mr. Giles preferred the proposed fiibftitue, if
for no other reason than this, that it contained
a penalty for making improper pur chafes.
Mr. Kuzfimnns V" npofetl to retain the firfl
i° n ' 10 amend it by inicrtin? after the
tamed m the rub!lit„te ,u tWiviUf fh,- Mion.
Soaie farther amendment.;, -.vers viida to tfu
J. Smith;' ;
W.
J.Steele,
Sterrett,
Sturges,
Sumpter,
Sytvefter,
Thatcher,
Tucker,
Venable,
Wadfworth,
White,
Willianifon, 43
E S.
MefT. Hartley,
Madison,
Mcrcer
Page,
Treadwell, 10.
proposed fubllitute. The tjueftion »»
the firfl division of the motion. 05
The original fcdtion was struck out, «nd
feSion, as amended, agreed to.
An amendment proposed by Mr. Green
the objeA of which is to permit person, , u " ! ' '
ling thro' the Indian territory to purchai C "
exchange such articles as may be neceffarvT
their subsistence, was then discussed, and aml
to. The duration of the bill was limited bit '
years, and then ordered to be en rro&d 7'
a third readings
In committee of the whole
Mr. White in the chair; '
On a bill to determine th, northern boundary
of the territory of the United State,, th „/
of North Carolina. This bill cc/nfilU of one f
tion only, and authorillsthe PrcfuWt of ,k"
United States to take meafurcs to have th
line run. Some amendments were agreed to
and then the committee rose and r, ported th
bill. The House adopted the amrndou-nr
ordered the bill to be engrossed.
Adjourned.
The following are the precise term, of H e r rc „ ,
proportion efoelhy Mr. Gerry on'the me L,al,
oJMreri oj fcveral l,„e> oj tie late e rm< u .
United Statei, on 2u if day
Resolved, as the opinion <>f committee
That provifimr he made for fiiehoScers , l!>n !
commiflioned officers and soldiers of thJ late
army of the ijnited States, who received cer
tificates for the balances due to thcitj on a
final fettlemcnt of their refpeiW accounts.
Provided, that such provtlion (hail not exceed
the difference between the nominal amount
of the raid certificates, and the feal'anrmnt
estimated at the present rates in the marker'
of the certificates which areor mavbe ilTued
tor thofefirft mentioned, ptirfuanttoan at
making provilion for the d;bt of the United
States. «
1 sunsDAT* jami^ry'^ros——
Sketch of the Debate on the Rrfnlution, 'r,flWK» f tll
Loan of the Balance: due from lie U.iittd .Stal/t
to the individual States.
After reading the report of ths commillion
ers for fettling th acco'ints, Mr. o:i-« m;-!e
some opposition to providing for these balances
before they were ascertained; that is not dons
by the report of the commiflioners.
Mr. Fitzfiinons briefly Hated the motives
which had induced him to come forward with
the resolutions previous to ascertaining the ba
lances—he thought that while there was an un
certainty in thebufinefs, the decisions would be
more readily and impartially made.
Mr. Livermore objected to providing for ba
lances before they were known; he thought the
resolutions incomplete, as they recognized only
creditor states, and fay noth ng about debtor dates.
Mr. Fitzfimons said.he did not believe there
would be any debtor states; he was sure there
ought not to be any.
Mr. Madison objected to the resolutions on
the fame principle with Mr. Livermore; he en
larged on the idea, and insisted that without the
most urgent neceflity, the provision contemplat
ed ought not to be made in the present uncer
tain (late of the business. On the principles of
j" ft ice and oeconomy, he contended, that a sys
tem which would be so eomplex in its operation,
ought not to J>e adopted; it would operate to
the extension of taxation in the United States to
ths greatest degree, as it would involve s fur
ther levying of taxes to reimburse theftatesthat
fliall finally appear to have large balances due
them.
Mr. Fitzfimons faicl he was not
adverting to the a«sl for afluming the state debts,
Ke observed that these balances were there re
cognized, and the creditors to whom these ba
lances are due, are to all intents and purpofeg
creditors of the union. Mr. Fitzfimons said, he
had no idea of the result contemplated by the
gentleman in refpe<sl to the extention of taxes
No pofiible difference, he conceived, could take
place whether the balances were now a {Turned,
or the ascertain mem of them was made previous
thereto; the operation would be precisely the
fame in both cases.
Mr. Sedgwick replied to Mr. Madifon —He
(lated various reasons to shew that his obje&ion
on the score of encreafed taxes had really no
foundation. Mr. Sedgwick entered into a Ihort
difcufiion of the fubje&, and stated the real situ
ation of some of the ftatcs, to whose cicizen»
large funis are due. He said h« had no doubt the
general government would consider themlelvef
bound to pay those demands; could he despair
of the public faith in this refpe&, he fhouldde£
pair of the common wealth; for he (hould anti
cipate the most pernicious consequences to flow
from the withholding that justice, which those
dates now looked to the general government
to obtain.
Mr. Mercer observed, tliat the honourable
gentleman from Pen«fylvania had brought for
ward his proposition in such a (hape, as that it
was difficult to determine what his object- was.;
but he inferred from his explanations, unless he
contradi&ed himfelf. that the real object was a,
further assumption of the state debts, and to ef
fect the adoption of a question which was reje<£-.
Ed thelaft session. Here Mr. Mercer entered into
a consideration of the various principles which
had been proposed as bases for fettling-and ad
justing the accounts between the United States
and individual slates. He contended that the bu
fmefs was not in such a state as to juftify adopt
ing the principle of the resolution. He adverted
to the approaching difTolution the prelect
He remarked on the difference of the
exertions which had been made by the fttvcral
states-—he inferred that there mull necefiarily
be both debtor and creditor Hates; and.hence
deduced various confidernfions which flioulti in
fluence a postponement of thiybufinefs.
Mr. Gerry recurred to the funding; a«% ta
(hew that debtor and creditor state* were there
in recognized • with refp-:& to th? principles
on which the accounts ate to be fettled, tlutbufinefg rests tlie commiffioaers, whole de
cision by a4aw of the government is to be final;
but this he conceived, had nothing to do with
the present proposition. He noticed fevcral other
objections offered by Mr. Mercer, which he
thought appeared to be brought forward merely
to embarrass the business. He observed that the
present proposition was totally different from
that agitated last feflion; that now offered is rea
sonable, is founded on equal principles, and its
«ffe& will not be to encreafe the creditors of the
union, nor induce a necessity for one farthing of
taxation, which will not be wanted after the ac
counts are adjusted, and the balances known.
He hoped therefore, that the proposition would
be agreed to.
Mr. B. Bourn supported the resolution, as b«-
ing free from theobje&ionsurged to thofeoffered
the lad session. He noticed the remarks which
had been made on the resources in lands of the
states to whom the balances are supposed to be
due; Massachusetts, Rhode-Island and South
Carolina are the states the mod interested in the
business; those states have no lands. With ref
ped co exertions in the common cause, it will
not be pretended that those states have not made
as great as any in the union. The present pro
position involves this simple enquiry, whether
the United States ihall pay the states as states, or
whether they will pay the individual creditors—
justice required, in his opinion, that the latter
oughtto be paid; for their demandsare recogniz
ed by a law of the union, and they are to all in
tents and purposes creditors of the union,as fully
as any description of creditors whatever.
(Debate to be continued.)
Mr. Fenno,
The following appeared in the National Gazette of
the qth irijlant—uhicky uith tht irclofed,
you are rcqucjlei to insert in your Ga
rsrr *.
■To Mr. James BxAKchard.
5IR ' • ! IT
AFTER having served your country with dif
tinguilhed honor and integrity, during the
late arduous contest for freedom and indepen
dence, you have now nobly and intrepidly pep
ped forth, to vindicate your own rights and those
of your fellow soldiers, by calling on your coun
try for that justice to which they have so righte
ous aclaim, and which has so long been denied —
yob Have attacked speculation in its strong hold,
no dt>uirt the nest you have disturbed will fend
f"orii),a luwlirtg tribe about your ears, but perse
vere hi the good cause—be not deterred bv the
open thteai* or secret fiownsof men in office—
we have long been amused with hints and infinu
3tions. refpettwag the dark intrigues of CongrefS
*nen. It wat icferved for you, Sir, to point out
.the culpr its. Neither narpes nor Rations (hould
screen public plunderers from public execrati
ons j go,on, Sir, in the noble work you have be
gun—(late f«£b. produce your vouchers, name
your men, lav open the whole scene of iniquity
and let. vengeance fall on the guilty—-strip off
the mask that conceals the speculator under the
- u guise of the patriot-drag forth to day-light the
inen, let them be who they will; whether they
be pfefidenis, Vide-Prefidents,Judges, Senators,
Representatives, Secretaries, Comptrollers, Au
ditors, Commiflioners, Registers, Clerks, Col
leftois, Supervisors, Inipc&ors, Agents, Con
tractors, Quarter- m afters, Generals, Colonels,
Governors, State Comptrollers, Treasurers, Ac
countants, or whatever else may be named.—
Let the Augean stable be cleansed, iho* the world
be turned inside out or topsyturvy—order will
fprir>g out of confufion, light will fhfh out of
chaos, rogues will be expoled, justice lhall ap
pearand the war-worn soldier, the pennylefs
officer, and the long cheated real public creditor
ftiall blcfs the name of Blanchard. Having en
tered on the arduous undertaking, having col
lected materials in your late southern toui, hav
ing an able friend, adviser and counsellor in that
independent and truly disinterested friend of the
foor soldier, the author of " the poor soldiers*
plea"—you must be armed at all points, your
enemies cannot afTiil you with advantage; they
shall retire from your attack, and the whole herd
of speculators, from the firft nun in the govern
ment, to the despicable wretch who prowling
throlthe country for prey, has bought the sol
dier's or widow's mite for a song, (hall crouch
and refund their ill-gotien gains—cloath'd with
the impenetrable armour of honor, faith, a good
confcicnce and an nnfpotted character, you will
effect your object, tho' Appollyon and all his
hod of trealury blood-Cueke's should fta'nd in
your way. A FELLOW LABORER.
Til Mr. J— *- B
SIR,
SUCH is the uncertainty in all human affairs,
that however good the cause, however emi
nent the abilities that are engaged in its support,
every wife and refl. £king mind will constantly
hold itfetf in a Hate prepared fordifappointment.
I doubt nor, Sir, your contemplations have
inspired some ideas. congenial to the above, on a
recent event—the failure of our application to
Congress. For iho* it hat been insinuated that
it is (joflible Jome perjons may have been a&natcd
by improper motives on the occasion—yet I can
bear witnrfs to the honor, confijlcncy and public
spirit of Mr. | B — nofinifter mo
tive! have influenced your exertion. You, Sir,
early engaged in the service of your country from
patriotic principles, and pcrfevered without the
JmalltJt deviation Irom ihcjfrift line of duty to
the end of-the contest. Some have aflerted that
you began the bufyiefs of speculation while in
the army—that you descended to every artifice
to poffrfs your felt of the claims of the soldiers—
but others prettnd to think this cannot be true—
for they fay it is well known, that at the close of
the war, you were not possessed of property fuf
ficient to countenance such a suggestion—besides,
it is said by some who know you well, that tho*
you werecurfed with the itch of speculation, yet
poffefling too much of a projecting spirit, like
those ol other eminent personages, your schemes
and fpeculaiions have terminated in difappoint
inriu, loss and poverty.
I cannot help, Sir, cxpreffing my sympathy
with youoo the unfortunate issue of some of your
truly benevolent and virtuouscnterprizes of <> more
recent date. Inflamed by the fire of philan
thropy, you took your late tour to the foutheni
states, to kindle a flame in the bosom of
some persons there. With what plealure did
all your fellow laborers behold your name a-
the southern gazettes. It is to be la
mented that your fuccels was so partial in this
business ; and that you entirely Jailed, for want of
the Rhtnd in your land war rant and cer
tificate speculation. You had no cash, anil
alas, they would not trust you. We have to la
ment, my dear fellow laborer, that all our trou
ble and expence in piocuring the Ion? lift of
names from the public offices of those we in
tended to cheat, were thrown away. Here let
me caution you to be on your guard against
wolves in flieep-fk'ns. But, dear, Sir, the best
intentions are often fruftTated. I (hall never fdhr
get the unmerited abuse you received in New-
York on a certain occasion, when the Poftrnafter
was so uncomplaifant as to prevent you from'-;
prescribing rules in his offiee. Your object was
doubtless laudable; but he could not fee thro*
the justice of fending your letters at half price.
There are many other matters and things on
which I could condole with you—but the time
fails me at present—and you have in our old
friend and counsellor, the author of 44 the poor
soldiers* plea," so f\mpathizing, kind and generous
an aUy % that I need not enlarge at this time. I
fhali conclude therefore at present with proposing
that you fhculd go on with the good work ;
should you succeed, our fortunes are made—we
know w'ho will be entitled to the benefit of de
preciation, from North-Carolina toNew-Hamp
fhire.
You know there are the letters of a certain
head of a department, which you have said are
in your pofTeflion—thefc you rnujl bring for
ward, or I a flu re you, there is danger of your
being obliged to acknowledge that you are a
liar; and it would be a horrid thing for you
ytwftlf to pub!ipi such a fa£L
There is one thing more, my dear james, 1 and
I have done-r-a jnoft formidable majority in the.
governrpent is agafnft us—and, I believe, among
the people. You have abused individuals—men
whom oeither you nor I were ever acquainted
with, and never will be ; but take care, my dear
fellow—do not damn the whole majority of
Congress as a set of scoundrels, left your tongue
should become too long for your mouth,
Your's, in much amity,
A FELLOW LA3ORER
For the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
THE army memorial lays stress on their
being paid certificates worth 3/. in the
pound, instead of 2of. in money. It is neces
sary to be correal in our ideas of this opera
tion. The army had an unliquidated demand.
It was liquidated, and the final settlements
ifiued in consequence. It would be absurd
to imagine that the unliquidated demand re
mained in force as well as the new certificate
given in lieu of it; for in that cafe the Uni
ted States will be charged twice for the fame
debt. Common sense and common pra&ice
teach every person that the new certificate
created a new demand, instead of the old «ne;~
as a bond puts an end to a running account.—
In this sense, and-in this sense only, the certi
ficate operated as payment. But it carried
the evidence of their whole demand at 20f.
in the pound in specie. The army memo
rialists seem to have erected averyfolid work
on a fictitious bafts- Had the old demand of
the army been liquidated and fettled by the
delivery of counterfeit certificates, the old
debt would have remained in force, becaule
the new demand could not have any force at
all. Every man who has served on a jury or
even seen a court of juftiee, will perceive
that the do&rine of the certificates being
worth and discharging only 3J. instead of 20/,
is wholly unfounded ; whatever their market
value might be, they certainly carried on the
faee the evidence of the whole fnm of 2of.
the certificates being made transferable was
no accommodation to the public—as it is
plain whoever might keep them, the public
would be charged to pay the full amount.—
They were made transferable it is said on
the request of the army—whether this be
true or falfe is not very material; for it is
inconceivable that the final rettferhentslhonld
carry to every poffefTor a right to 2of. against
the public, and yet (hould discharge the public
of only 3/ of the debt due the officers. In
stead therefore of faying that the certificates
were given the officers in payment, which is
not true, we fliould fay, they were given on a
final settlement of their claims, and were
(not the payment, but) the evidence of their
whole demand. The question of their me
rits, their fufferings and lofTes, is not intended
to be included in these remarks—which are
made to shew that the principle on which
they reft their claims, as of right, is unsound.
A FRIEND TO THE LATE ARMY.
No. t.
Philadelphia, Jan. igj
We hear from Georgia, that the legiflaturc
of that State, , f their last ielTion, have pro
moted the Hon. Brig. General James Jack
son, to the rank of a Major Gen. and the
Hon. Col. James Gunn, to the rank of a JJtig.
General.
SANK OF NORTH-AMERICA.
AT a meeting of the Stockholders held
this day, for the election of twelve Directors
for the eflfuing year, the following persons
were elected :
John Nixon,
John Morton,
Robert Wain,
Mordecai Lewis,
George Latimer,
Jofiah Heaves,
267-
Whereas, in consequence of an arrange
ment just adopted by the Government of the
-United States, at the request of the Minister
of France, the subscriber is to be fuccelfively
provided with Funds for the discharge of the
drafts of the adminftration of the French Co
lony of Hifpaniola, from No. 173, of the loth
of September, to No. 379, of the nth of De
cember last inclusively.
He informs the Holders »f said Drafts that
they will be paid by him as they become due.
.The Public is once more requested to at
tend to the Caution given by the Subscriber
in his Advertiferaents of the 9'* l August,
and 2ift of November last, as no other Bills
from the aforefaid Administration will be ac
cepted or paid here in future.
Antoine R. C. M. Delaforest,
■ Consul General oj France.
Philadelphia, Jan. 17th, 1793.
ExtraS oj a letter from a gentleman at Clifton, near
Arijiol, (EnglandJ to his jriend in Baltimore,
dated Oftoter to, 1792.
" With refpeift to politics, the Englilh
newspapers will (hew you to what outrageous
lengths the Jacobins and Republicans of
France have carried on matters. We are in
daily expectation of hearing of their having
facrificed the poor King and Queen. —The
Auftrians and Prussians seem to have been
grossly niifled by the Emigrants, in represent
ing a larger body of malcontents in the king
dom of France, than there appears to be.
They advanced rapidly under the idea of sup
port, tut finding the body of the people against
them, they have retreated, and, I suppose, it
will end in the rascals' establishing their own
wild incoherent system of government. If
they would only content themselves with
bringing on their own deftruftion, no person
would care whether they had any government
or not, or be interested in it; but when they
threaten every country in Europe with fend
ing emilTaries abroad, to poison the minds of
the common people, to subvert every thing
that is decent and refpeftable in each coun
try, it then becomes a matter of moment to
each to endeavor to counteract their schemes. ,
At prcjent, I am very sure, the good sense of I
the great body of the people in this country 1 /,
is against any such innovation ; and, I be-j
lieve, Mr. Thomas Paine, at length, begins
to think so. He embarked at Dover for France
' the other day, amidjl the hijfcstrd execrations oj the
populace•"
It is without doubt one of the greatest of
fences that can be committed, in the view of
certain charaflers, so much as to doubt the
goodness of those motives, which lead modern
reformers to beat down every barrier between
that virtue on which republics can alone ex
ist, and that Infidelity which recognizes no
thing as a crime that may conduce to facili
tating the ambitious views of its disciples.
Married,Mr-Lrwir Hallam to Miss Eliza
Tuitt.
THE art of speaking is a pretty thing,
Provided you can touch oldSten tor's firing;
For he in vain his rcas'ning-pow'rs employs,
Who does not teach his tongue to make a noise;
A noise—Ye gods! you wkii'per Xvhen you
thunder,
Compar'd with founds that make the gall'ry
wonder.
p6 per Certs,
.3 per Cents,
Deferred, " I
full (harps Bank.U. S. 34 . per crnt.prem.
The exiraft from a Cape-Francois paper—
and many other articles are neccflarily postpon
ed (ill o-ir next.
City of Washington. \
Ext raft of an A& of the General AflfemMy of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Wafliington. \
44 Be it enacted, That any foreigner may by
feed or will, hereafter to be made, take a*d hold lands
within that part of the jaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fine lands may be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens j
of thii State: Provided, That no foreigner JhaU y
in virtue hereof, be entitled to any further or othct
privilege of a citizen, H
J4O. 19. tf
Jan. 14, 1792
William Smith,
Benjamin Fuller,
Thomas Fitzfimons,
Miers Filher,
Jn'eph Swift,
Richard Rund'.e.
FUN-DING SYSTEM.
T ORD \yhat a pother some folks make,
l~rJ According to the fide they take ;
Ap'irty in,lll when firft you lift him,
Inveighs against the funding system;
Jt is a guiph that swallows up
The public interest at a sup.—
Not Newton's mind in calculation,
Could count the loflcsof the nation ;
But—ah how short our mem'ries are,
Those who such things alTert and (wear,
When the old story is grown ftaie,
Don't blulll to tell a diff'rent tale ;
Hence by the dint of fccond fight,
What millions fared, are bro't to light.
O R AT OR Y.
" PRICE OF STOCKS,
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
January 7th, 1793.
ANUM BER of Lots in this City will be of
fered tor sale at auction, by the Commis
sioners, on the 17th day of September next.—
One fourth p»<t of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments wtth yearly interest on the whole princi*
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to tip Com'rs.
By the SubJcrihcVy at Walnut-Street Wharf\
BILL OP EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediate use, in pipes & quarter c&[k;«
TENKRJFFE WINE, in pipes,
SHERRY WINE, in quarter cafics,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proof,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRI'I,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLL'M,
Two Bales 10-4' BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13-4 Inch CABLE, 120 fa-bonis long.
GEORGE MEADE
Philadelphia, Jan, 19, >793- tp2m
TO be SOLD, OR LEASED
FOR SEVEN OR TF.N YEARS,
THE FOLLOWING
HOUSES.
ONE on Walnut-street, near Fourth-ftrccf,
23 feet front, has two parlours below, the
ftorn one 21 £by feet, the back parlour >s
18 by 14 feet. The front room up stairs is 265
by feet. There are five good chambers in
this house, belides the garret is divided into
three rooms, in two of them there are fire
placrs.
The other House is 27 feet upon Walnut*
ireet, and 52 feet upon 4th street; there are tw«
good parlours below, one of th«tn 25 by 20 1-2
feet, the other 25 by 18 1-2 feet, and seven com
plete bed-chambers; bcfides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largest house has also a
houfe-keepcr's room. It is intended there shall
be a communication from boih of tbefe houses
to a neighbouring ice-houfe,,fufficiently large to
supply 3 houses. Within 50 yards of ihefe
houses, there will be ccmpleat ftanles and coach
houses, for both houses ; they will- be finilhed
in the moll complrat manner, ana the keys
ready to be delivered early in the Cummer.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
other half may be paid by inftalmenis, or the
whole may remain fbr <5 years, paying interest
and giving security on the premises.
For terms of sale or lease, apply to the Sub
scriber,
Who has jor SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
fixtecn (hillings and (ix-pcnce, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS, that will contain two
and a half and three and a half bufirels.
Philadelphia, fart. 19, 1792. ep9m
T) Y the Commiflioncfs appointed to prepare
X) the Public Buildings, See. within the City
of Washington, for the reception of CongTefs
and for their permanent residence after the year
1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT Or THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, is 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz.
l Superb Hotel, with baths,)
out houses, &c.&c. to cost )
1 Cash Prize
l ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
sod' ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 Prizei
39,263 Blink*
50,000
The sole aefign of this Lottery being to facili
tate other improvements together with the Public
Buildings—it is the particulardcfire of the Com*
miflioners that these may be effefled with a$
few dedu&ions from'the Prize* as poflible—how
far their endeavors may be answered, the Scheme
of the Lottery will dcrr.onftrate. The keys of
the Hotel, when compleat, will he delivered to
the fortunate poiTeffor of the ticket drawn a
gaioft its number—it the necessary expenses of
the Lottery should be taken from the principal
prize, a quantity of excellent Free Stone will be
given, fumcient to compleat the whole building,
as an indemnification.
tofi
11J10
All the other prizes will be paid, without
deduflion t in one month after the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Waftiington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9th of Septembei next, at the City of Walking*
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
Treasurer of Washington ; ofMcffrs. JamcsWcJl
£3 Co. Baltimore ; of Mr. Peter Gilman,
and at such other places as will be hereafter
published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the best Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and-cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if presented
on or btjote the toth oj April next; ana a pre
ference will be givrn to the Artist for a Con*
tract, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ere&ed, wiH
be a corner lot of about go by «oo feet, w-irh a
l back avenue to the ilables, See. Seniors acd
eftimatcs of the expense will be cxpe£tc4
with the elevations, &c. coniplcat ; and 50,000
dollars mud be regarded by the Architect as the
uunoft limit in the exprtife intended for thu
purpofc. S. BLODGET,
for lb« affairs of the City
January 19.
FOR SAL K,
GEORGE MEADE.
$, t*x> i»
i,aoV it
gQO i«
100 i«
{O. II
t$ i»
to u
»0 ,i»
Dollars 350,000
6Q/c>9»
'4l o<Jei ' j
t/nyaem"'
>W>«» :■'
«o,9P(>, . ..
tojoitf ,
' 10,000' '•
10,000!
iftfiOO •
10,000 :
l'p.doo
to,OCA'
jjn.soo •t'run the American Daily Advtrtijcr
ADVANTAGES or CANALS.
THERE is now eretfted on the
waters of Brandywine, fifty
merchant mills, whicli grinding fix
months in the year, and packing
ten barrels of flour per day—at the
average rate of 4d. per barrel—
is bbls. 91,500
4 Grift mills.
jo Saw mills, working
fix months in the year,
will cut iooo feet per
day, of plank,, boards,
&c. at jos. perthoufand,
is, thouf. 9,140
1 Furnace, making 15
tons pig metal and three
tons caltings, per week,
to continue in blast nine
months in the year—at
7s. 6d. per toil—is 1
8 Forges, makingoll an
average 75 tons bar iron
each, annually, is
at js. per ton.
2 Slitting mills, mak
ing 20© tons each, is
at js. per ton.
4 Paper mills, contri
buting towards toll, each £. ioo
g Oil do. do. do. each 50
7 Fulling mills.
1 Snuff mill, contri
buting towards toll, IS
I Tilt hammer.
The commodities manufactured
at the above mills, at the rates an
nexed, will cost to carry them to
Philadelphia market by means of a
canal, £. 7018 17 6
Whereas the present
mode of carriage, by
land, will amount to
From which deduct
the sum as above, cost
of carriage down the
canal, 7
Leaves a balance in")
favor of the water |
carriage, for the [>£.1.4,037 15 0
mills above noted, |
of J
A writer in a lateLar.don paper, [peak
ing of La Fayktte
TF France ever inhaled the fa
i cred august spirit of Liberty,
if she has {hewn to the world mag
nanimous proofs of it, it is to La
Fayette that she is in a great mea
sure indebted for this. It was from
him that France firft knew that a
worthy citizen and soldier were no
incompatible terms; that all men
are by nature free and equal, as to
their rights. He would havetaught
them, that a conftiuition formed by
the uuanimous fufFrage of Free-
Men, ought to be refpetfted and
obeyed. Prevented in his career of
glory by the arts of infiduous and
abandoned factions, he yet merits
the eulogy of every good man,
whose hearts must be touched at the
ignoble deftinj which now awaits
Win.
" I will not enquire whether the
Combined Armies had a right,when
he quitted his country, to treat him
as a prisoner at war—perhaps they
had; but surely the fate of that
General nnift be Angularly hard,
who, if before incapable of return
ing to his native country, is now,'
by the lare decree ag3in(t all jEmi
grants, to be considered as of no
Nation. He is then to undergo,
unless timely relieved, perpetual
imprisonment. There is no one
(whatever may be their inclinati
ons) 111 Fiance who can liberate
him. To whom, then, can the pro
vince of ranlbtning an Hero who
has contributed to the deftruclion
of defpotirm in France, devolve ?
It is reserved for the English—to
that manly and generous nation,
who has lately evinced by its con
duct that it is unswayed and unbi
ased by narrow views ; that it for
gets enmities ; that has illnftrated
most strikingly to this and every
succeeding age, that Ihe regards no
longer the confined docftrines which
till of late ifolared her frojn Euro
peans ; that all mankind in distress
are her brethren : — Perfetfi these
laudable efforts of benevolence and
philanthropy—Release La Fayette
from his manacles.—America is too
far diftanc to engage herfelf in Eu
ropean broils; and from joo only
be has any hopes. Hasten (hen ye;
generous Britons! to his fuccoor K
and immortalize your names."
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Resolved,
THAT the Cashier be authorised to receivc
from the proprietor of any number of corn
pleat (hares, such Certificates, not in his own
name, as he ma) ( be the proprietor of; and after
cancclling the fame, to i'Tue a new Certificate or
Certificate* in lieu thereof, in the name of such
proprietor.
Resolved, That in all future transfers of
complrat (hares in the capital flock of the Bank,
the Certificates of the shares transferred be can
crlled, and a new Certificate or Certificates be
issued in the name of the transferer or purchaser.
Resolved, That the Certificates in future
issued, be foi one or more fharcs, as the pro
prietor may request; and the new Certificate or
Certificates shall be of correspondent numbers
with those in lieu of which they arc issued.
ep3 w
BANK OFTHE UNITED STATES.
tons 117
Philadelphia, January 7, J793.
NOTICE is hereby given, that thtre will toe
paid at the Bank, after the 17th inflant, to
the Stockholders or their Representatives duly
authorized, the following sums, being the Divi
dend declared for the laR fix months, viz.
For each share bearing dividend from the lft
of July, Sixteen Dollars.
For each share bearing dividend from the Ift
of August, Fifteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
For each share bearing dividend from the lft
of September, Fourteen Dollars. 67 Cents.
Fof.each share bearing dividend from the lft
of October, Fourteen Dollar?.
For each share bearing dividend from the ift
of November, Thirteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
For each share bearing dividend from theift
of Twelve Dollars, 67 Cents.
For each three-quarter share, Twelve Dollars.
By order of the President and Directors,
3w JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
600
tons
4CO
tons
50 Dollars Reward.
RAN on the 25th indant, a likely Ne
gro Mati called Isaac, about twenty-three
years oid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made fellow, fond of talking, has a large
mouth, and (hows his teeth very much when
talking; had on when he went away, a brown
linen Oiirt, a (hort white kersey over jacket with
a very high collar and plain bread, with buttons
which appear to have been very gay • a pair of
white kersey breeches, a pair of white knit yarn
(lockings, a pair of shoes with firings in them,
and a coarse hat ; all the above clothes arc »!-
mod new. Said Negro was fprmerly the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas, late of Kent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, df
ceafed, and has for faveral years been employed
in that neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by MefTrs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, which bujinefs he «
well acquainted with, and is what he prefers ;
and has been engaged in driving a waggon from
said Cross.Roads to Duck-Cteck, &c. until
Augud lad. I expect he will make his way for
the neighbourhoods of George-Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will be paid if delivered to me in this
place, or Thirty Dollars if secured in any goal,
so that I get him again, tic is an ailful fellow,
and when taken, will make his escape, unless
particularly secured.
31,056 12 6
7018 176
Eastok, OWF.N KEKNARD.
Talbot County, Maryland, Dec. 28, 1792. 2m
200 Dollars Reward. :
LOST, at Providence,or between Providence
and Boston, a very final! TRUNK, covered
; with seal-skin of a reddilh colour, with white
jfpots. It .contained a quantity of South and
; ffortTi-Carolina State Notes, and a few of the
| of RJiode-Ifland ; with other papers,which
; can only, be ferriceable to the proprietor. The
! State notes are cheeked at the offices from whence
'theyiffued. Anypeifon producing theTiunk
;(with m contents) to JOHN MARSTON. of
Boston, WILLIAM HALL, of Providence
t MclTrs. PATEgIiQX. and - BimER, New
;Yoik, cr Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
iphia, (hall receive the above reward, or for any
[part of the property, One Hundred Dollars.
{ Boston, Nov. g B. ,-p[f
piIE Subscribers having been appoimed a
A committee of the Board of the Truffees of
the Urnverfity of North-Carolina, for ihe pur
pose of receiving proposals from I'uch gentlemen
as may intend to undertake the indrutHon of
youth in that indituticn, take the opportuni<y
of making known to the ppbliotheir with that
such genilemen lliould figoify their inclination
to the lubfcribers.
The objects to which it is contemplated by
t.ie Board to turn the attention of the ftildtnts,
on the firfl eftabli(hment, are—The of
Languages, particularly the En g l)(h-Hiftory,
ancient and modern—the Bclle-lettres—Loeic
and Moral Philofophy-the knowledge of the
Mathematics and Natural Philolophy—Agricul
ture and Botany, with the principles of Archi
tccture.
Gentlemen converfaiit in these branches of
Science and Literature; and who can be well re
commended, will receive very handfeme encou
ragement by the Board. The exercises of the
lnditution will commence as early ?s poflible
alter the completion of the buildings of the L'ni
verfity, which are to be enntrafied for immcdi-
SAMUEL ASHE,
A. MOORE,
lOIIN HAYE,
Pnr>rr»
!)'-S The price of this Gazelle r, 'three Dollars
per annum—One half lobe paid at the time of sub.
scribing. ' J
JOHN KEAN, Calhier.
To the Public.
DAVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLES
268
Federal City.
THE Subscriber will convey forever, by
good and fufficient deed, Thirty Lots in
the City of Washington, situated on South
Capitol Street, to any man or company of
men—provided they will agree to erect there
on good and fufficient brick houses, within
three years from the date hereof.
DANIEL CARROLL, of Dudiington.
City oj Wajhington, Dec. 31, 1 792. 61
TO BE SOLD,
That well-known Place, called
South-Point,
LYING at the end of Sinipuxent Neck, on
the Eastern Shore of Maryland, within two
miles of the Inlet, in Worceflcr County, in the
said Siate, being the firft landing for veflels that
tiade in there. From the fituztion of the place,
{t is convenient for fifii, claims and oyfteis, is
open to the sea, and has every conveniency that
could be wiftvd for. The foil is excellent for
Indian corn, wheat or flax, is natural to clover,
and has a good marfli paUure for stock.
Any peifon defirousof purchasing, may know
the terms by applying to Aifkctcn Humphreys, Esq.
in Philadelphia—Mr. Benjamin Indian
Town, Worcester County—or to Capt. Littleton
Robiniy near the place.
r
Jan. 2,
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful filuation on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of direction towards the Federal
City and GecrgeTown,in full view of each place,
commanding * profptfl of the river and adjacent
countr} o( Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying di
rectly on the river, will be fold, with the ion.
prnvements, which are, a two-story framed
d wclling-hotife, neatly finiflicd, a kitchen,office,
brick ftriokc-houfe and dairy, two-story framed
b»rn, a well of excellent water, and an lce
houle, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
cessary improvements ; the wboli; of the land
enclosed with polls and rails, lenor fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its
contiguity to those three towns mu.il render it an
objedi worthy the altention of any pcrfon who
wilhes to invefl money in a property that must
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in.
cresfe ot ihe Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central situation to each place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep Ihore and harbour,
capable of receiving veflfcls of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be erected here to the Citv of
Wafhingion and the Maryland fliores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia,— Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which will suit well to supply the above in
wood and timber. The title may be seen to Ihe
above property, which is indifputahle, and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, living
011 the premifrs.
December izt/i, 1792.
RUN-AWAY
«»» THE SUBSCRIBER, THE 12th APRIL
A NEGRO BOY, named Zeb\ slim and tall,
fixleen years old; came to Samuel Lipin
cot's at Bordentown on the 15 h, said his name
was Ilenry, and left that place the 27th May
On the 27th day of June, he was taken up in
Bucks County, and cat l ied before a Magiflrate,
said he was free, and that he lived on the Sufi
qiiehannah—that a person by the name of Abra
ham Prall, took him three days journey from
home, and turned him adrift with one dollar-
He aflccd the Justice for a pals to go to his fa
ther, and nothing appeared to the contrary
He lived with one Thomas Paxwell till the jqih
of this instant, and then mad? his escape from
him • he called his name Peter Jo/,»J/ on —\ud
on an old Grey Coating Round Jacket, lined
with red blize ; «n old oair Leather Breeches
aud an old Felt Hat. Whoever takes up f„d'
Bov,and brings him to Jacob M ersrreAu, on
Staten-Ifland, (hall receivc TWENTY DCL
LARS, with re»fonable charges, paid bv
JACOB MERSEREAU, Lieut. Col
3 9' law 6w
BOWEN's EXHIBITIONS OF
W ax- Work &Paintings,
A RE open every day and evening (Sunday;
u t, eXCepted) at the Ho " re 'atelv occupicd
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eighth-street
First Room—Contains upwards of 100
and about 33 Wax Figures,
in lull stature among which are Likeness
of a number of the principal characters in
Amenta; Baron Trenckin chaini, an Indian
Chief, and .everal beautiful young Ladies of
different States, Ac. &rc.
Second RooM—Contains eighteen large
Wax Figures, which form a Social Club,
or the Oyster Supper; and the School for
cawdal, confiding of twelve female Figures,
wh T" j brervatio »' ! on a young Ladv,
who had eloped with a Footman.
Room Q ' ttanCe °" C uart " °f a DolUr each
PLANS
OF THI
City of Washington,
B °OKSEIJ.r.RS,
POBSON, CAREY, YOUh'C, & LRU KS HANK.
ADVtRTrSEMKNT.
A'ft J h llf az '' , ' is P M l h <<l'K NoTthFifth-Strcet,
,1, *i j High and Muli/erry Streets where
the LiiUor now resides. '
< a ■ '? LARC ' E CF.LLAR TO LET.
Sufficiently cfacus Is JloreJever.il hundred barrels.
t-Ttquire as above.
THE Subscriber intending -a confine himfilf
entirely to the PURCHASE akdSALF o.
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to oftcr
his lervices to hisfriends and othris, tn thcline
ofa Stock Broker. Thole who may pleale to fa
vor him with their bllfinef.'i, may (lrtttod Upon
having it tran failed with the ntmoft fidelity ™d
dispatch.
Ordersfrom Philadelphia, otl „. r
part of tne United States will be ftr.aiy attend
jedto.
No. 118, Mirkft-Street, Philadelphia.
1 * A MER JC A NMUSEUMyftom its commence
ment in January 1787, to June 1792, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound 2nd lettered,
seventeen dollars and three fifths.
BALDWIN DADE
efiim
3- Duncan's Elements of Logic-— 75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding— 50 cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—so crnts.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mis*
More's Essays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs". C'ha
pone on command ot Temper, Morc's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Pi ice a dol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by Jamrsßeat
tie, t,. L D. profeffor of moral philofopby and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : "We
have seen nothing on these fubjedts more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the University in Phi
ladelphia.
13. The Confti rut ions of the several United Statesj
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
Ston uiill be f'ublijiua',
tbi SYSTEM of
t/Aoti-P&ind,
Ufcd by Mr.Li.OYO, in takingcown tbr.D'bwn
otCongrefs. A fyltem so easy, that any man
of ordinary capacity, may clearly comp,
it in half an hour, and f-»on pra&ife it, i n j r .
fullert extent, without any fun her inft.utiinn
than what will b. conveyed in a few pacts—!
the whole ART being comprised in at hint
JiMplechataHtrs, without any of those perplexing
«rb«r»rv marks, wi.h which the learners «,!
<*l|et fyftemi are obliged to burden their me.
WO>y, a»irt etnb»rr»fs ihcir pra&ice.
Price, to Suhferibeu, One Dv/Lr—u, \ - nn .
a D*lhr and half,
received by M.ffr., Rice, Boo*,
fcllert, MvKet.Qreet.and by
u ,r CAREY. No. ,6. Pear-Street.
Haifa Dollar to be fa,J at M, tine ef/uifcrih^.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG,
Of the very firft quality, and latfft importation,
from Canton, via New-York, by reiaii, ac
No. 19,
Third,between Chefnyi, an<s Maikei Sheet*.
N. B. A few Boxes ojthcaiy* fir fib.
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-llreet, Nsw-Tciiit,
[t,g.
LEONARD BLF.ECKFJI
B O O K 8,
PRINTED AND SOI,D BY
M A T H E W CAREY,
This work, which is now conduced on an im
proved plan; containing the best puces publilhcd
for and against the proceedings of government,
will bc fo'itid to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and mrfcellaneous eflays,
as any ever published in America, Perhapsin no
one work are so m&ny valuable docinnt nts rcfpefl,
ing the history of this country, collc&fd together.
His Excellency the Prefideniof The-tftmed State?,
has declared of it, that t4 a more ufeftU literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement,"
The fubfeription is two dollars and a half per
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wish 10
be supplied with this work, are requcftcd to give
Commiilion to friends in the citv to fubferihe for
and receive it* Any of the back numbers
may be had in order to com plete fcts.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on Nurf
jng and the management of Children.
<c We recommend these letters to the perufil of
those to whom they Bre particularly addressed."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101 — Price, bound,
62 cents.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-fifths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
11. Nrcker'sTreatifc on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Pi ice four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations ot Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on verv
line paper, 5 8< hs of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jell Book. Price three-fiiths of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The Doway Translation of the Vulgare Bi
blf, in quarto— Price, elegantly bound and lcttci
-50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecurn---Pricc a
quarter dollaf.
19. Think we!! on't. Pi ice a quarter dollar.
20. Christian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. History of Charles Grand ifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Prices third
of a dollar.
23. vSelett Poems, chiefly American- —Price a
sixth of a dollar.
Said C a r ey has for sale, a large afTortmenf of
Rooks, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the most icafonable
terms. Conn'ry gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being fupplird ia
the moll fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries