A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS IT* JOHN FENNO, No. 34 , NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHII. A'Dhl.l'Hl A
[No. 81 of Vol. IV.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY, Feb. 28.
ON the motion for referring the resolutions
refpefting the official conduit of tiie Se
cretary of the Treasury to the committee of
the whole,
The two firft resolutions being read, refer
ring them to the committee was objected to; it
•was said they were abilrafl proportions—may
contain felf evident truths in themselves, but
Jiable to modification in their application to
particular circumstances ; if these are refer
red—the committe may wale their ti*ne'in
<lifcufung propositions which do not in
to the merits of the main object of the enquiry;
this discussion may and probably would be
spun out to such a length as to preclude a con
sideration of the main object; the charges
adduced against the Secretary. The coofe
cjuence will be that the resolutions will be
printed, go out into the world, and make im
pr#>4foiw op t*ie public mind without being ■ac
companied with any statements or reasonings
to counteract or obviate their tendency
That the present enquiry may involve a fur
ther step—an impeachment; it therefore ap
peared improper for the House to commit it
felfin refpeeV to abftraft portions, which would
tend to embarrass both the Houle and the Se
nate should an impeachment be the confe
rence of the firft discussion.
In answer to these obje&ions it was said,
that it was furel v not the way to obtain a full
difcuflion of a proposition to mutilate that
proposition in the firft instance—That every
member has a right to bring forward such
propositions as he thinks proper—that it ap
peared a strange way to decide on the merits
of a proposition, to preclude the House from
a •lonfideration of all the parts of such propo
sition.—That a difference of opinion appears
to exist in the conftruftion of the lawbetween
Congress and the Secretary of the Treasury—
That the two firft propositions may be confi
«iered in the light of a preamble to a fubfe
<)»ent act—whieh is afterwards susceptible of
ificJ.M4»n io any ftegp of th*
deliberation on the a<st, fetter or embarrass
that deliberation.
The last resolution is to this purport, That
a copy of the foregoing resolutions be laid be
fore the President of the United States.
It was remarked 011 this, that the obvious
motive sos it is, that the President may take
a hint to dismiss the officer in question from
office—this it was said was giving the Reso
lutions all the force and effect of an impeach
ment; for dismission from office is the only
confeauence of impeachment—so that the
responsible officer is in this way to fuffer all
the consequences of criminality without one
of the forms prescribed by the constitution in
cases of impeachment.
The following remarks were made by Mr.
Smith, of South-Carolina, on this occasion :
Mr. Smith was decidedly opposed to re
ferring thole resolutions to the consideration
of the committee of the whole house, because
he neither viewed a discussion of them as ne
celTary on the present occasion or warranted
by the nature of the inquiry into the Secre
tary's conduct. It was trifling with the pre
cious time of the House tolavifh it on abftraft
propositions, when the obje<ft of the enquiry
ought to be into facts ; he was fatisfied that
should the House once involve itfelf in an in
vestigation of theoretic principles of govern
ment the short residue of the fellion would
be exhausted, and no opportunity remain for
examining the charges themselves ; t.hofe
charges being made, it became the House
from a sense of duty to the public and jultice
to the accused to proceed immediately tocon
fider them. If the mover intended to apply
the principles of the two fir ft resolutions to
the fatts contained in the subsequent ones, it
was unquestionably proper firft to substantiate
the fa&s and then eftablilh the principles
which were applicable to them, but it was
surely a reversal of order to spend much time
in eftabliihing principles, when it might hap
pen that the charges themselves would be to
tally unsupported. He did not like this mode
of proceediag because it might tend to mis-
Jead the House; it was sometimes a parlia
mentary practice to endeavor to lead the
mind to vague and uncertain results by firft
laying down theorems from which no one
could dissent and then proceeding to imper
ceptible ihades to move unsettled positions in
order ultimately to entrap the House in a
vote which in the firft instance it would have
rejected. This mode of conducting public
hufinefs he confickjred as inconliftent with fair
inquiry. The qneftion was, had the Secreta
ry violated a law ? iffo, let it be shewn ; eve
ry member was competent to decide so plain
a quettion; he could examine the proofs,
read the law, and pronounce him guilty or
innocent without the aid of these preliminary
methaphyfical djfcufllons.
If it were urged that the proportions are so
and obvious that no time wouldbe loft
Saturday, March 9, 1795.
in confuli-ring them, he then b«gged leave to
observe that all antecedent difcnfGons of con-*
ftitutional questions had never failed to occu
py a larjre portion of their time and that how
ever felf evident the resolutions might at the
firft glance appear, a more critical attention
would fatisfy a mind notmuch given to doubt
that they were by 110 means so conclusive as
ta be free from objections.
Though the position contained in the firft:
resolution, as a general rule, was not to be
denied ; yet it malt he admitted that there
may be cases of a fufficient urgency to jufti
fv a departure from it, and to make it the
duty of the legislature to indemnify an officer ;
as, if an adherence would in particular cases,
and under particular circumstances, prove
ruinous to the public credit, or prevent the
taking meafuresefTential to the public fafctt,
against invasion or infurre&ion. In cases of
that nature and which cannot be forefeen by
the le.ifUture, nor guarded against, a dilcre
tionary authority must be deemed to reside in
the President, or some otberexecutive officer,
to be exercised for the public good ; fucn ex
ercise instead of being construed inro a crime,
wotfM always mert ttaf approbation of the
national legislature : if tliere be any weight
in these remarks it does not then follov.* as a
general rule, that it is eflential to the due ad
ministration of the government, that laws
making Specific appropriations should in all
cases whatsoever, and under every polTible
circumstance be ftri£tly observed. Before
the committee could come to a vote on such
a proposition, it would be proper to examine
into the exceptions out of the rule, to state
all the circumstances which would warrant
any departure from it, to whom the exercise
of the discretion should be entrusted, and to
what extent. Did any member wilh at this
period to attempt this enquiry I He supposed
not. Let every deviation fiom law be tested
by its own merits or demerits.
The second resolution v/as liable to stronger
objections ; it might with propriety be ques
tioned whether as a general use the position
was well founded. A law making appropri
ations may be violated in various particulars
without infringing the constitution, which
only enjoins that no monies (hall be drawn
irom tik treasury but in consequence of the
appropriations made by law j this is only to
fay, that every disbursement must be author
ized by foine appropriation ; where a sum of
money is paid out of the treasury, the pay
ment of which is authorized by law, the con
stitution is not violated ; yet there may have
been a violation of the law in some Collateral
particulars ; there may even have been a
fhifting of funds, and however exceptionable
this may be on other accounts, it would not
amount to that species of offence which is
created by the constitution. The comptrol
ler of the treasury must countersign every
warrant, and is responsible that it be author
ized by a legal appropriation—yet it cannot
be supposed that he is to investigate the source
of the fund.
One of the alledged infractions stated in the
subsequent resolution*, namely, the drawing
part of the loans into the United States with
out the inftru&ions of the President, evinces
that the opposite conftruftion is not a found
one, for suppose the fa ft proved, and suppose
it a violation of the law, it certainly would
be a very different thing from drawing mo
ney out of the treasury without an appropri
ation by law, for in this cafe there would be
no drawing money from the treasury at all,
the money never having been in the treasury.
Mr. Smith then said, he should also object
to referring the last resolution, -which is in
these words, Resolved, that a copy of the
foregoing resolutions be transmitted to the
President.
The object of this resolution went clearly
to direst the President to remove the Secre
tary from office : the foregoing were to de
termine the guilt, the last to inflidt the pun
ifhment,and both the one and the other with
out the accused being heard in his defence ;
when the violation of the constitution was so
uppermost in our minds, it would be indeed
aftoniJhing that we should be so hood-winked
as to commit such a palpable violation of it
in this instance. The principles of that con
futation, careful of the lives and liberties of
the citizens, and what is dearer to every man
of honor his reputation, secure to every in
dividual in every class of society, the prc
cious advantage of beirg heard before he is
condemned.
That constitution, peculiarly careful of the
reputation of fcreat public funttionaries, di
rects that when acciifed of a breach of duty,
the impeachment must be voted by a majority
of the House of Repreientatives, and tried by
the Senate, who are to be on oath, and two
thirds of whom must concur before a sentence
can pass, by which the officer is to be deemed
guilty-—The officer is to be furnifhed with a
copy of the charge, and is heard by himfe!f or
his counsel ill vindication of his conduct.—
Such ie the fo'emnities and guards by which
they are protested, and which precede a sen
tence, the only effect of which is a removal
from office. But if the House proceed in the
321
mantfc'r contemplated hy this TPfoUrtwm, if
thfcy. firft vu te the chargevand lend a
of them to the Pieiid-.nt, as an inflection to
him to remove the officer, they will violate
the sacred and fundamental prn :cipiesof thi?,
and every free they wjjl con
demn a man unheard, nay, without his having
even been furniftied with the charges
him j they will condemn to infamy a high
and responsible officer, eopviCled by the Re
presentatives of the people, <>1 a violation of
the important trusts committi d to him, with
out affording bim one opportunity of vindi
cating his character and juftifying his conduct.
In committe* of the whole, Mr. Muhlen
berg in the chair, on the 3d, 4th, sth,
6th, 7th, and Bth ltfolutions, as pub
lifted in the Gazette of Wednesday
last.
MR. Giles, the original mover of the
refolutions,rofe. He was fenlible,
he said, that he flood in a peculiarly de
licate. iituation, iu which nothing
,tk« public good, could have indited him
to place himfelf. If a public and highly
responsible officer had violated the laws,
it was neceflary that he should be called
to an account for it ; and to determine,
whether in the inrtances before the house
he had been guilty of that violation, it is
neceflary to compare the teftimouy with
the facts alledged in the resolutions befoie
the committee. He firft adveited to the
law authorising the President of the Unit
ed States to borrow 12 millions of dol
lars, for the purpose of paying the foieigft
debt. On this he remarked, that the au
thority of borrowing was expressly given
to the President, no doubt with an eye to
the personal virtues of the charafier who
fills that office } the loan is also diredted
to be made, solely for the purpose of pay
ing the public debt. Here he remarked,
that in every appropriation-law the appio
prrAtlun i» always emphwifcaily mtifition
ed, which is an evidence that the legisla
ture intend to remain the sole judges of
the applications of money. He read a let
ter from the Secretary of the Treasury,
who was employed by the President to ne
gotiate this loan, to Mr. Shoit, the Se
cretary's foreign agent 'for this purpose,
dated ihe 9th May 1791, i" which the
Secretary informs Mr. Short, that one
million and a half of the money he had
obtained on loan was destined for Franct ;
of which sum he was authorised to apply
immediately one million, but to relei ve
800,000 florins to answer subsequent di
rections he should receive from the treasu
ry. He cited this paflage to fliew-that the
million and an half which had been ob
tained on loan, was defined for France.
To remove any doubt that might re
main npon this head, he referred to a pre
ceding letter from the Secretary to Mi.
Short, dated the 13th of April, in which
it is also expiefsly said, that of the two
millions borrowed, one million and an
half is intended for France, the remaining
half million to wait for further dire&ions.
Having eflablifhed this point, he advert
ed to the resolution before the committee,
which fays, that he applied a portion of
the principal borrowed to the payment of
the interest falling due upon that princi
pal, without being authorised so to do by
any law. To (hew this he referred to a re
port of the 3d January, containing sun
dry statements refpefting foreign loans.
That part of the report to which he allud
ed in proof of the fad, dated in general
terms, a sum paid on account of foreign
loans, and this sum was taken from the
principal borrowed, and amounted to
189 florins. If his statement was
accurate, the fad he wilhed to eftablifli
was, he said, proved. He wanted more
light, however, he confeffed, than he
could colled from the Secretary's official
communications. He should not go into
the examination of what circumitancts
might have induced the Secretary to devi
ate from the poGtive injunctions of the
law, or to make any remarks upon his
condud, until he had heard what gentle
men would fay to controvert the fad he
wished to eftablifli.
Another fa A of confluence be wiflied
[Whole No. 405.]
to prove, viz. that part of the money ob
tained on loan in Europe bad been drawn
over, though not wanted here fui any pub
lie purpose : this appeared, he (aid, from
other papers—He turned to the iintitic
tions from the Prelident to the Secietery
of the tre a fin y, authorizing him to bor
row fourteen millions of dollars, in which
the Secretary is cautioned to keep in view
the two several atts authoring the loans,
and the diftinft conditions they content
plate. By the inltru&ions of the Preli
fident the Secretary is authorised to apply
the monies. In the execution of the trult
confided to him, the Prelident generally
dire&s him to employ Mr. Short to nego
ciate the loans, to borrow in the manner
prescribed by the a«Sts, and to discharge
immediately the arrears of interest due to
the French, to which purpose and tt> the
complete payment ef that debt, the 12
million loan was appropriated.
If this money, then, was fliewn to have
been drawn here, it was neither warrant
ed by law nor by the Prefident'g inltruc
tions. The Secretary d'd begin to draw
as early as 1790, and had continued to
draw from time to time, till 1793. with
out giving notice of this to the legislature.
Having (hewn that the Secretary had
drawn without authority to draw, he next
proceeded to consider the object of thole
drafts.
The money thus drawn for was not,
he dated, applied to the purchase of the
public debt ; no money obtained from fo
reign loans was thus applied until this
year ; the resources appropriat
ed to this objedt were never exhaufled.
These were the fadts involved in the firft
resolution, which he \vifhed to eflablifti :
before he proceeded further into the dif
cuilion, he Ajeilhed to hear what gentlemen
had to fay to controvert them. He wiftted
to fee jullice doiie in the bufincf* before
the house ; he meant justice, also, to be
tempered with moderation and mercy,
and if gentlemen could fliew a necedlt v for
the deviations from positive law, whichhc
had endeavoured to point our, it would
exonerate the Secretary from a very great
share of blame.
Mr. Barnewell called for the reading of
certain paits of the two acts authorising
the loans. Out, of the 4th of August, ati
thorifes a loan ps 12,000,000 to be ob
tained without limitation as to the inter
ell, for the purpose of foreign
debt, the other is of the 12th of Angufl,
for 2,000,000, the interest to be not more
than 5 per cent, and for the purpose of
reduciug the domcllic debt.
Mr. Sedgwick lamented'the fhortnef*
of the time for the difcuflion of an obje&
of so milch impoi tance to the party accu
sed, and in which the honor of the go
vernment ami the peafce and quiet of the
community were so deeply interested.
For what object, he was thi6 extra
ordinary invelligation at this time ? It
was not for the dete&ion of fraud, cor
tuption, peculation ? Thef? chargeswere
relinquiflied, and now the prosecution
was confined merely to enquiry whe
ther this officer had discreetly and ably
discharged the important duties assigned
to him; whether he had observed by
(hillings and pence, during the conrfe of
his adminifttation, the precise limits of
his authority, in points of appropriation;
and whethrer, fiom confcions innocence,
he has dared to express to thin House, the
natural fentimer.ts of an injured and me
-1 itoiious officer in language ofFenfive from
being too plain not to be understood, and
too bold not to give offence, in short, io
the language of freedom. Gentlemen
did not hesitate, for these unimportant
purposes, to r.onfume the greater portiqn
of the few days allotted to our political
exiltence, and even attempt to agiute by
founding an alarm, the public mind from
St. Croix to St. Mary's : and for what
ends ? Did the gentlemen prosecuting
propose an impeachment ? No, they r*-
prefsly disavowed any such intent ion. Fcr
what other puq>ofe we were authorize A
Vto Intrude as 'iccaOj, as grofecutors into
the executive department, Gentlemen
had not yet declared. 1 lie events wouM
declare how agrec.ible it wn., to the peo
ple of America, I fiat the House of Re
prcfentativt:6 should attempt to contract
the Prclideiit in tlie free exercise of his
difcretioii in fei*£ling the proper inttiu
iiteritl o! executing the laws. 1 lie pro
secutors in their z-al hud forgot that it
was effeiitial to rierfonal feeurity and free
dom,that a per ton fhoilld not be condemned
without an opportunity of being lieaid m
his defence; no such opportunity had
been indulged the man, whose icputation
dearer to him as a man of honor, titan
life, was attacked. He was willing howe
vei, to proceed to the difcufiion ot the
qucllion before the committee ; and in
tegard to the tefolution immediately un
der confideratiou, and to those which
would fncceed in their order, as far as he
might take pa>t, he should only (late the
fatts in relation to the quellion immedi
ately under debate, and endeavour to
point out that relation. If these fails
should be established and those relations
underlined, he would run the venture to
predict, that the sensibility by which the
ingenious and intelligent Ameiican mind
is attached to the objedt of the prosecu
tion, from a confidence in his integrity
and talents, will be greatly increased.
The resolution immediately under con
fideiation, charges the Secretary with vi
olating the law of the '4th of Augult by
ill. Applying a portion of the princi
pal borowed under that a£l towards pay
ing the interest of it.
ad. By drawing part of the monies
into the United States, without .the in
ftruftionsof thePrefident.
Refpe&ing the I ft. particular, he le
quefted gentlemen to attend to a Ample
statement of the facts. Money was in
Europe applicable to purposes of appro
priation in America. This being imme
diately conne&ed with the 2d. paiticular
chargt-d in the refolutiori, ai.d it being
inftparably involved with other f acts re
lating to that particular, he would now
aflume it as a fact That money was in
Europe appropriated to the aid of the
finking fund, and which therefore might
be brought here, the real fcane of its>de-
Aination. It was also true that the mo
ney arising from our domestic ttfources
being destined to pay the interest on the
foreign loans, we had of course money
here destined to foreign purposes. To
introduce the exploded nonsense under
these cifcumftances of the ear-marks of
meney, seems the objedl of the charge,
which for no ufeful purpose would fub
jeft us to the rifle and expence of fending
the money to Europe and of bringing
the fame money from Europe here. What
did the Secretary ? He borrowed from
one fund, he repaid with the other. He
avoided all rifle and expence. He fully
executed the purposes of the government.
He did, in £a6l, what any prudent, ho
ne ft agent would have done for his prin
cipal, what every man of common sense
would have done for himfclf. Had he
pursued another course, had he tranfpoit
ed money from Europe to America and
from America to Euiope in the instance
before the committee, it might be said
with truth that he had given conclusive
evidence of a paltry genius, wholly un
worthy of the high itation in which he is
placed.
The next particular was that he had
drawn part of the money borrowed under
the ast of the 4th of August, into the U.
States, without the inftruftions of the
Picfident ?'
Should the truth of this charge be ad
mitted, it might be alked what authority
had the House of Representatives to in
terfere ? Was not this an ufurpa'tion ?
Were we now to go into a confederation
of the refpeftive fubjcfts afGgned the se
veral departments of government ? Or
was the House under the plausible pre
tence of purifying the executive, to usurp
the appropriate ajid most nectflary pow
ers of that department? To whom was
intruded the execution of the loan ? To
the Prcfideqt, not the House of Repre
sentatives. Who was to feleft the instru
ments of execution ? Who was, to remove
from office? Could the houfe,by any arti
cle of the constitution interfere in vemo
.val from office, but in the process of im
peachment, which is declared not to be an
obje£t of the picfeat prosecution ? He
.would not here reft the defence, though
the que (lions he had alked fuggelled id.as
worthy the confideratiou of those to whom
they were .\ddrefled, and of the public.
Before he proceeded to the mod imt
portantciicumiUncesrelatingtothischargr,
lie woukl take notice of the evidence «>n
which the gentlemen relied. It was rnerej
ly of a. presumptive nature—a prelumptU
on he said he would Itake his refutation
in believing wholly in Confident with the
character of the President or his Secreta
ry. Was it the character of the Presi
dent, to admit fubje£ts of valt magnitude,
committed to his management to be con
ducted without his knowledge, by his im
mcdiateandconfidential minitters? Would
he not expel from his confidence the min 1
who should dare thus to conduct.
On the other hand, is it poflible to sup
pose that the Secretary could have pre
sumed to have abused the confidence of
the man on whose pleasure his exiflence
absolutely depended ? It could not then
be supposed confident with the character
of either gentleman that any necefTary
information could be withholden—that
any important (lep would be taken by the
fubordinatt; officer, without iuftruClions
where.those inltrudtions wotild be necefTa
ry oi expedient ; and that should he fail
in that attention which the nature of his
relatiou, and the fubjedts under his ma
nagement required, it was a natural pre
emption, that the President would do
what was proper to be dor,e. Certain it
was that it was not fubjeflt to any consti
tutional controul of the House of
fentatives. '
He said, that by the confti'tution of the
Treasury department the general fupeiin
tendance of the finances was committed
to the Secretary. That by the ast of the
4th of Augult, 1790! which would be a
gain mentioned : The Piefident was au
thorised to caufeto be borrowed 12,000,000
it would be a question, whether, when
this money was borrowed, the general fu
perintendance of it was not in viitue of
the ast, conflicting the Treasury depart
ment committed to the Secretary. If this
was the true.conllruftion no inftruftions
would be necefiary to enable the Secreta
ry to make the appropriations pointed
out by law. This, however, not being
neceflary to be relied on, he mentioned
only cideniinally.
He observed, that the money to be
borrowed under that ast was solely appro
priated to the difch'arge of art ears and in
ftallinents, payingofFthe fote'igii debt.
He wilhed that the committee would be
pleased to notice as a fact to be-particu
arly remembered, that there was no re
ltriftions as to the time of borrowing ; on
ly that they (hould be advantageous to
the United States, and of this there was
no criterion; the only security of the pub
lic was the discretion of the President :
It would thetefore never be a question,
whether a loan made at 5 per cent interest,
and 4 per cent, premium was within the
authority' delegated.
. He said that it. had been denied that 3-
ny of the money borrowed in virtue of
this ast could be drawn into this country.
This was in his opinion wholly unfounded.
He afifed where were the words that con
tained this restraint ? He said, that all tjhf.
money borrowed might, confident with
the law have been drawn hither, iuvefted
in produce, and that produce been deli
vered in diicbarge of th? debt; and that
in fact a very large portion had within the
knowledge of every gentleman present
been applied to that purpose, and very,
advantageously to country'. He said
if the President ftiould believe it advanta
geous to the public he might not only
draw the money here for the purposes
mentioned, but fend it 'to China or to
Lapland.
He said, that by the ast of the 12th of
Augull, in the fame year, a further autho
rity was given to the President, to bor
row 2,000,000 of dollars, to be applied
to the purchase of the debt ; but in this
cafe the interest could not exceed 5 per
cent. Previous to the passing of this ast
our bankers had made a proviHtniaUo**
3,000,000 of florins. It was aflced whe
ther any part of this loan could be said to
be applicable to the purposes of the last
mentioned ast, or in other words for aid
ing the finking fund ? And was it drawn
here with the knowledge of the Prclident ?
A iimple statement of facts, he said, would
form the bell answers to both these quef-
tions.
It was, he said, stated by the Secretary
as early as thp 25th Aug. 1790, that this
provilional lrjpn was made, that it might
be at command i« the course of the then
322
year. That the expediency of its accept
ance, and the application of one thiiJ of
it to the purposes of the act of the 12th
of Auguit, was under the conlideiation of
the Prelident. At that time, then, which
was the earlielt pojlible moment, it was
known to the PreGdent that the loan was
made; it was known to the ligiflature
what would be the probable application
of it, and yet he laid it was now preten
ded that every body was kept 111 total ig
norance. This, he said, was not all, oil
the 28th of the fame Auguit the Pieti
dent authorised the fecretaty to cxecut
, the power of botrowing uniLr the autho
rity of both aits, and to the amount of
14,000,000 dollars, would it be said that
thi whole money was intended by the
Prelident to be applied to the foreign
debt ? This would be charging him with
an intention more ctiminal than had been
alledged againfl the Secretary ; for he
was not authorized so to apply more than
12,000,000. In the fame month the se
cretary latified the provilional loan of
3,000,000 of florins, and expiesfly decla
red it to be in virtue of the conjunct au
thority of the two loans.
This, he said, was not all. At the
opening of the next session, on the Bth
of December, 1790, and it was to be ob
served that the firft drawing of the mo
ney into this country commenced on the
15th of tliac month, the President in his
speech communicated the loan, and ex
pressly said, that it was made " in con
formity to the powers veiled in him by the
acts of the lalt session." Had not the le
gislature then the earliest possible informa
tion of the loan and of its intended appli
cation ? In the fame fpecch the President
informed the legislature, in relation to
this fubjeft, that the Secretary had his
direction to communicate such further
particulars as might be requisite for more
precise information. Afterwards, in the
fame session, the Secretary had given the
precise information which was directed by
the President; he ftatedthe terms of the
loan, which were at 5 percent, inter It ex
clusive of premium, &c. and said that
from thence a doubt had arisen, whether
it was within the meaning of the ast of
the 12th of Augult ; that in his opinion,
it was very expedient and highly import
ant to the general operations of the treasu
ry, that it should be deemed to be within
that act. That the residue beyond what
had been appliedto the forcigndebt might
be applied .to the purposes of that aft.—
In pursuance ot this information, the le
giflayire, to remove the doubts which had
been expreficd by the Secretary in,the said
session, pa! Ted an ast, declaring that that
loan " should be con (trued, and dbemed
to be within the true intent and meaning
of the ast for the reduction of the public
debt," and extended the operation of the
ast to any future loans which should be
made 011 the fame terms. He asked leave
to remind the committee of what he had
before dated, tljat there was no reftriftion
as to interelt ot piemium to be allowed
for loans made under the ast of the 4th
of August ; it would therefore, he said,
follow irrefutably, that the legislative in
terference was not only unneceflary, but
absurd, on the idea that ,no part of this
loan was to be applied to other purposes
than the foreign debt ; the words, too,
of the ast, rendered the Intention perfect
ly unequivocal and certain. Nor, he said,
did the whole proof reft in the docu
ments to which he had referred the con
sideration of the committee. That tiio
ney had been drawn into America arising
from foreign loans had been Hated to the
legislature at the commencement of their
next session after passing the last mention
ed act. This was by the Treasurer's ac
cbunt then reported to Congress, which
was explained and verified by the Comp
troller's report, to which he referred the
committee. The fame information had
from time to time been given by the
Treasurer, as money had been received
by him from this source. He concluded
,by requelting gentlemen to review the evi
dence he 4iad mentioned, and then, as
their minds should determine, pronounce
whether there was any foundation for fay
ing that no part of the tirft loan was appli
cable to the purposes of the ast of the 12th
of August, or that it was drawn here with
out the knowledge of the President? Was
there any reason on this evidence to which
gentlemen had hitherto confined them
selves for affirming the truth of either of
the propositions now imiOcdiately under
con si deration ?
[N. B. Ihe foregoing observations
of Mr. Sedgwick were interrupted m the
ccuifeof the delivery two or thtee t : in
by the leading of official document, «W|!
were called for, and by intervening 2
marks of other gentlemen who repeated
ly rose immediately after the rea.W ~f
those documents. To gl, e a m „, e
netted idea of the (cope „t hisa. R „ mem
the parts of Ins fpteeii ate co n >p,if c d
one (ketch.]
Mr. Giles remarked, that the Secrets,.
before the function of the law
was obtained.
Mr, Fitzfimons obfervtd, on the
charg' to ihe refoliition, that as the in.
tcrclt of tiie money borrowed in Europe
is payable w here borrowed, it was econo
mical in the Secretary to interctl
with monies there,which were to be draw,,
here, and teplace the sum by taking the
amotint from the funds here destined for
that payment. A financial operation of
this nature is fituple, and saves the trouble
of drawing with the one hand, and ttmit.
ting with the other. He conceived there
was no just foundation for the firft char™
Mr. Lawrance said, that when the re'
solutions calling for information from the
department were firft brought
forward, the public mind was impteffed
within idea, that there were monies un
accounted for ; this charge is now diopt
and it is honourable to the officer concern*
ed that after much probing, nothing i,
found to support it. The enquiry now is
whether a debt was paid out of this or
that fund. He did not admit the fact,
thkt it was paid out of any other monic,
than what law ftriftly warranted. He
went into a history of the business ftom i's
origin. He dated the nature and purpofts
of the loans. There was nothing to ore
vent the President, he said, to consolidate
the two loans ; provided such an arrange,
ment did not interfere with the purposes
intended by them. The President em.
ployed the Secretary to obtain the loans
under the joint authoiitv of both a&s, as
it was found that the object could belt be
carried into effect in such an arrangement.
The money thus borrowed, became fubjedt
to the apprbpriationsofboth acts, and not
exclusively for the payment of the foreign
debt. Then as part of that money was
fubjeft to be drawn here for the redemp
tion of the domestic debt, and the interest
of the loan was to be paid with domestic
funds, it wasperfeftly reafoaable to avoid
further drafts and remittances, to pay the
debt there with money there, and replace
it here with money already here. The fact
dated in the firft part of the refoliition is
by this plain (late of the cafe substantially
refuted, and appears altogether unfound
ed ; but if the fact is proved, what is im
plied ? no injury to the interests of the
community ; the intention of the legisla
ture has been in every point fulfilled. If
the Secretary had acted differently, he
would have been guilty of an absurdity,
and to blame for facrificing the public in
tt?reft and neglecting the spirit of a law,
for a strict and unprofitable observance of
its dead letter.
Mr. Giles said the tranfaftion alluded
to by the gentleman, to controvert tl e
fact laid ddwn in the firft part of the reso
lution before the committee was not im
material as they had endeavoured to (hew
it.' It was not merely a financial operati
on to avoid the neceflity of drawing and
remitting. The truth was, that the Se
cretary had drawn over near 3,000,000
of dollars. The President's authority
was limitted to 2,000,000.
Mr. Lawrance was of opinion, that if
the President, or his agent, had drawn
the whole amount of the money obtained
under both loans, he could not be said to
have gone beyond his authority. He was
authorized to borrow 12,000,000 to pay
the arrears on the foreign debt, and to
modify the whole. In the execution of
this trull he might have found it advifea
ble to draw to this country the whole of
that sum. It had been found advifeable
to draw for part, and to pay the French
by dipping produce to St. Domingo. If
the money expended so»- supplies to St.
Domingo is deducted, the balance will be
found less than 2,000,000.
The committee reported progress and
obtained leave to (it to-morrow.
['To hi* continued,. ]
FRIDAY, March I
The bill for extending the time for receiv
ing subscriptions to the loan oj the United
States, was read the third time and palled,
the subscriptions, according to this bill are to
be continued to the lafl day of fune 179*^*
A message from the Senate by Mr. Otis,
their Secretary, informed the House that the
Senate have agreed with ail" amendment to
the amendments ef the House to the bill fup
plenieutary to tbe a<st to provide more efiecl'V f° r the collection of the duties impsfed
bvtow on goods,., wares, and merchandize,
and on the tonnage of (hips and veliels.
This amendment was taken into conhder
ation T' ,,e amendment of the Houfii pro
vides that when the emoluments of a Collec
tor amount to upwards Oj dollars per
annum, the futplus fliall be paid into the trea
sury of the United States. The amendment
of the Senate is, to flrrike out this amend
ment and to insert a elanle which limits the
allowance of the Collectors of Philadelphia
and New-York to 3*Bths of one per cent ;
and to the collectors of Boston, Baltimore
and Charleston to 3-4ths of one per cent.
This amendment of the Senate was agreed to.
The bill for encreafing the salaries of the
commiHioner of the revenue and the auditor
of account? was twice read, and committed
for to-morrow.
In committee of the whole on the bill pro
?iding ail annual allowance for the education
of Hugh Mercer; Mr. Muhlenburg in the
this bill provide 1 ; for an allowance of
four hundred dollars per annum from the
<late of the last payment till the education of
Mr. Mercer (hall be compleated, or till he at
tain to the age of 21 years. No amendments
were made bv the committee ; and the bill
bein" reported to the Houle, was read the
third time, and palfed.
Mr. Fitzfimons brought in a report on she
petition of Arthur £:■* Clair, refpefting the
Settlement of an old account ; read and laid
on the table.
The amendments of the committee of the
whole to the bill making appropi iations there
in mentioned, were taken up by the House ;
some of these amendments were adopted,
others disagreed to. The bill was then or
dered to be engrofled for a third reading.
A motion mads by Mr. Boudinot for taking
up the bill reported by the feleft committee
on the petition of Lewis Pintard, was put,
and negatived, as was also a motion made by
Mr. Clark to take up the' bill for eftabliftiing
fees to be paid on the transfer of public Secu
rities.
A mefTage from the Senate by Mr. Otis in
formed the House, that in the ablence of the
Vice-President, the Senate have chosen Mr.
Langdon Prudent pro tem. as the conftituti
-011 of the United States directs.
Also that the Senate have pal Ted an ast Sup
plementary to the ast for eftabliftiing and
maintaining light-houses, beacons, &rc. An
ast for the relief of Elijah Boftwick ; and an
ast providing for the payment of the tirft in
stalment of a loan made at the Bank of the
United States.
Mr. Moore of the committee on enrolled
bills, reported four bills as truly enrolled,viz.
tl An ast making appropriations to defray the
expense of holding a treaty with the hostile
Indian tribes north-weft of the river Ohio.
An ast for altering the times and places of
holding the Circuit Courts in the Eastern dill
trift, and in North-Carolina, and for pther
purposes. An in a44»tion to «ft
for eftabliftiing the judicial courts of the Unit
ed States ; and anaft*?hakmg certain appro
priations therein mentioned.
Another nieiTage from the Senate informed
the House that they have pafled the ast for
extending the time of receiving subscriptions
to the loan x>f the United Scates, and for com
pensating Ebcnezer Storer, in which they re
quest the concurrence of the House.
A melfage from the President of the United
States, by Mr. Lear, informed the House that
he has approved and Signed two acts—one, an
ast to ascertain the fees demandable in cases
of Admiralty proceedings in the Courts of the
United States; the other an ast to regulate
trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes.
The House went into a committee of the
whole on Mr. Giles' reiolutions relative to
the official condurt of the Secretary of the
Treasury. The debate continued till five
o'clock ; the committee then rose and report
ed progress, and the Hrnfe adjourned to 7
o'clock P. M.
The coikmttec to whom was referred the letter of the
Secretary oj tie Treasury of the 25th February,
refpefting the errors in his printed, reports,
Report,
That they have examined into the circumstan
ces dated in the letter, and find,
That the (lauding order of the clerk of this
houle to the printer is, to fend the proof facets
of all reports and ftateinents to the department
from whcnce they were made, and that this
pra&ice has been generally followed.
That it has been difcominued during the pre
sent feflion (so far as Tefpe&s the Secretary of
the Treasury) from an ppinion of the printer,
that the delay which the examination would oc
casion, might interfere with the intention of the
boufc, of having the bufioefs speedily -accom
•plifhed.
It did not appear to the committee that any
unnecetTary delay had taken place at the office of
K the compttoller, by reason of the examination of
the proof fhceis, nor in the primer in the execu
tion of his business
Ihe committee are of opinion that it is not
necefTdry for them to recommend any new re
gulation for the future execution of this business ;
but, in order to re&ify the errors which have
taken place in the printed reports and statements,
the committee recommeud the following rcfo
lution.
R£ROL V ED,
That there be printed under riie dire&ion of
Secretary of the TVeafury, 300 copies of the
re P9rtsand ftatcments made by him during the
prcferit feflion, and that the fame be delivered
to the clerk of this house.
Lift of Ads pajfed at the Second SeJJion of the Second
L'ongrcfy.
'•AN a & concerning the registering and
recording of thips or veffrls.
*• An act to amend an a ft, intituled, 44 An
ast eftabi"tilling a Mint, and regulating the
coin j of the United States," respects
tiw coinage of copper.
■ *5.. An a& to provide for the allowance of
inteieft 011 the Aim ordered to be paid bv the
re'olveofCongrefs of the 28th of September,
one thousand (even hundred and eighty-five,
as an indemnity to the persons therein nahitd.
4- An ast to continue in forte for a limit
ted time, and to amend t!ie ast, intituled,
*' An ast providing the means of intercourse
between the United States and foreign nati
ons."
J. A» ast regulating foreign coins, and for
other purpoles.
6. An ast relative to claims' against the
United States, nor barred by-any ast of limi
tation, and which have not been already ad
j lifted.
7. An ast refpefting fugitives from juflice,
and persons eicaping from the lisiyjce of thejr
matters.
8. An ast for enrolling and licensing (hips
or veflels to be employed in the coasting trade
and fiflieries, and for regulating the lame.
9. An ast providing compensation to the
President and Vice-President of the U. States.
10. An ast to repeal part of a resolution of
Congress, of the 29th of August, one thoul'and
seven hundred and eighty-eight, refpefting
the inhabitants%f Post Saint Vincents.
11. All to promote the progress of ufe
:'ul arts, and to repeal the ast heretofore made
for that parpofe.
12. An ast to aiithorife the Comptroller of
the Treasury to fettle the accounts of Tho
mas Wifliart, late a lieutenant in the army of
the United States.
13. An ast to authorize the adjustment of a
claim of Joseph Henderlon against the United
States.
14- An act making provision for theperfons
therein mentioned.
15. An ast for repealing the Several impost
laws of the United States, So far as they may
be deemed to impoie a duty on ufeful beasts
imported for breed.
16. An ast in addition to and alteration of
an ast, intituled, 44 An ast to extend the time
limitted for fettling the accounts of the Unit-
States with the individual States."
17. An ast to regulate the claims to inva
lid, pensions.
18. An ast making appropriations for the
support of government for the year one thou
fa-nd seven hundred and ninety three.
19. An ast to regulate trade and intercourse
with the Indian tribes.
2D. An ast to ascertain the fees in admi
ralty proceedings in rhe diltrift courts of the
United States, and for other purposes.
21. An ast making an appropriation to de
fray the expence of a treaty with the Indians
north-weft of the Ohio.
22. An ast in addition to the ast, intituled,
u An ast to establish the judicial courts of the
United States."
23. An ast to alter the times and places of
holding the circuit courts in the Eaftein Dif
trift, and in North-Carolina, and for other
purposes.
2.4- An fapplementary to the ast, inti
tuled, 44 An art to provide more effertually
for the collection of the duties imposed by law
on goods, wares and merchandize, imported
into the United States, and on the tonnage of
Ihips or veflels."
25. An ast providing for the payment of
the firft installment due on a loan made of the
'Bank of the United States.
26. An art for extending the time for re
ceiving on loan that part of the domestic debt
of the United States which may not be sub
scribed, prior to the fiHVday of March, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-three.
27. An art supplementary to the art for the
establishment and support of light-houses, bea
cons, buoys and public piers.
28. An art providing an annual allowance
for the education of Hugh Mercer.
29. An art for the relief of Elijah Boftwick.
30. An art making certain appropriations
therein mentioned.
3 1. All art making addition to the compen
sation of certain public officers.
32. An art for the relief of Simeon Thayer.
BALTIMORE, March 5.
ExtraEl of a Letter Jrom a .Gentleman in Philadel-
phia, dated 23 d n/t.
" The late call upon the Secretary of the
.Treasury, has served, in my opinion, to raise
his character ttill higher. How he has been
able to go over so large a Geld, in so Ihort a
space of time, to detail so many intricate ope
rations of finance ; to exhibit their depen
dence on each other ; to lhew the means by
which the credit of our country has been re
stored, and its specie increased ; and to Ihed
over the whole monied tranfaftions of four
years, at home and abroad, a light which dis
pels ambiguity, and discovers suspicion in
blulhes, is truly surprising, especially as the
call was as luddenas unexpected. I can re
collect nothing from any British Minister, iiv
all the conflicts of party, equal to it. Even
Necket*s boasted account of the finances of
Fiance, rendered to his King, is inferior ; al
though that was the result of long fludy and
elaborate preparation, and Hamilton's the
work of the moment. Poor Fellow, if he has
(1.-pt much for thele three weeks palt, I con
gratulate him upon it. I fincerelv wish that
the whole of his information could be publilh
ed in a cheap form, lo that it might be read
by every citizen of the United State, instead
of the minced pieces that mav occasionally be
served up to them by party writers. A man
of such information, exactitude, firmnefs, iu
dultrv, strength of judgment, fertility of re
source. and comprehensive views, ought to be
thoroughly known to all whom it concerns,
and may well be coniidered, by the most en
lightened, as an uncommon production ; and
yet a more unctmnui thin% would be, to fee a
sett of ambitious and difappo'iDted men, ac
quicfcing in his fqperior t-ilents and utility,
instead of laboring to drive him from a station
which the/ may polfibly covet; or moving in
323
Congress a refalution of thanks, in Head of
calumniating him in Gazettes. But has any
country given a ipecimen of such kind of am
bition*? If not, why Ihou'd the United States
let tive example ? Dutch Republicans mur
dered Wit and ate his heart. Republicans
baniflwd Arijlidcs thejuft, put Phocion to death,
and condemn-, d Socrates to As yet
we hp.ve confiiied the punilhnent of eminent
fervicesand ability to attempts to degrade
them trom office, inuendoes, ele&ioneerints
- and newspaper detra&ion : This,
however, may be only the pre ude to eating
and banishing. Let us be thankful, my friend,
that Nature has not lubje&ed you and I to
such a fate."
Philadelphia, March y.
APPOINTMENTS--BY AUTHORITY.
Attorvies for the United States.
Zebulon Hollingfworth, Maryland.
Thomas Patter, Soutk-laro/ina,
Gcoige Nicholas, Kentucky.
CotUflort,
C Port of Edenton, and
< Infpe6to»-of Surve\,
( No. 2, North-Carolina.
, a , t rxr ir D Itntt of Champlain
Mclantlhon L. Woolfcy, j Hew-York.
Port of Harawick (Geo.)
Samuel Treadwell,
William Thompson,
Surveyors.
Port of Smithfiefd (Vir.)
Plymouth (N.C,)
Copland Parker,
Tohn Armftead.
Thomas Moffat,
William Munfon,
Edward Weyman,
Jnfpeftors of the Revenue.
James Gibbon, Survey No. 4. Virginia.
Wth. Richardson, No. 3, Maryland.
Thomas Overton, No. 1, North-Carolina.
Thomas Benbury, No. 2, ditto.
Daniel M'KifTack, No. 5, ditto.
Ccmm.if[ioner of Loans.
Benjamin Harwood, State of Maryland.
Chief Coiner of the Mint oj the United Statts.
Henry Voight, of PennJ'ylvania.
Con s u ls of the United States.
Benjamin Joy—oi Majjachufetts Calcutta, and
other ports and places on the Coast of India
in Asia.
Nathaniel Cutting—ditto, Havre-de-Grace.
Jame> Greenleat— ditto, Amflerdam.
Samuel Cooper Johonnot, do. Demarara.
Henry Cooper, of Pennsylvania, St. Croix.
Benj. Hammell Phillips, do. ,Curracoa.
David Matihew Clarkfou, do. St. Enfiatius.
Edward Fox, Falmouth (G. B.)
lofeph Yznardi, Cadiz,(Spain)
Robert Montgomery, > /Meant, do.
John Parrifti, Hamburgh.
Commijfioners for holding a Treaty with the hojlile
Indians.
Tscrtjimiri Ltncoln, ot Majjachufetts.
Beverly Randolph, Virginia.
Timothy Pickering, Pennflvania.
AJfociate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States—
William Paterfon—of New-Jersey vice—
Thomas Johnson, of Mar\land, lefigned.
MefT. Hare, Morgan, Latimer, Swanwick,
Woods, and Gibbons, members of the House
of Representatives of the (late legislature,
have entered, on the journals of the House,
their reasons for difTenting from the vote of
a majority, in favor of a bill, extending the
power of justices of the peace to cases of twen
ty pounds.
The resignation of Mr. Jefferson wasfome
time since talked of, as about to take place
soon ; we have lately heard, through a very
refpeftable channel, and communicate it with
pleasure, that he is not to relign. Gen. Adv.
A few days since Mr. Lazarus Beach pre
sented to the Museum in New-York a quire
of paper, made at his Paper Mill in this town,
which the hottefl fire would not consume.
In a 1 ite Speech of Mr. Burke in the Bri
tifli House of Commons, he denounced a M.
Dupont, a member of the French National
Convention for declaring himfelf an Atheifl —
but by the Speech of M- Dupont Jince publjibed,
it appears he only said u /am a Deijl
Return of Grain brought into the Port of
Philadelphia,' for the year 1792.
Bulbels.
463,2461
U,193J
380,°5>4
17,i84t
49,972
5,59'
Wheat
Rye
Indian Corn
Oats
Barley,
Peas and Beans
Total
Address of the President of the United
States previous to his taking the Oath le
quired by the Conflitution, on Monday last.
f'tliow-Citizevi,
I AM again called upon by the voice of
my fco*intry,,to execute the functions of its
C.hiif Magistrate. When the occasion proper
for it (hall arrive, I (hall endeavor to express
the high sense I entertain of this diftinguiftied
honor, 2nd of the confidence which has been
repofcd in me, by the people of United Ame
rica!
Previous to the execution of any official
act of tlie President, the constitution requires
an oath of office. Tnis oath lam now about
to take ; and in your pretence—that if it
(hall be found, during my administration of
the government, I have in any instance vio
lated willingly, or knowingly, the injunction
thereof, I may (besides incurring cor.ftitution
al punilhment) be fubjeft to the upuraidings
of all, who are now witneffej of the present
l'olemn ceremony.
At the celebration of the lVefidfiit's Birth
dav in Salem M<jifachusi;is, h fulvienpnon Wd»
for the ielicf of iinpnfciiir.d dehtocj ;
bill o'i enquiry it was found »h it there was not
£in tiic County of Kflcx. That County con
tains neatly fi'*(.y ihouFutd inhabitant*.
Fredeiickfburg.
< Surveyor & Infpe&tor
( Port of New- London.
( Surveyor & Infpeltor
< of the Revenue,
( Charlejlon (S.C.)
Danbury Paper.
927,236
COMMUNiCATIO
It niu'ft afford genuine fatisfacTion to tie
public 6t' the' United States to learn, that af
ter the 'everest fcrutlify by the Repre&i ta
tives of the people into the official <otu!u£t of
the Secretary of theTreafniy—it has appeal
ed uublemiHied and honorable.
There was a mistake in faying that the Se
cretary had been acquitted * because acqfi|traf
implies trial, anxJ trial prefu >poles theaccufed
party bei rig heard in his defence, which was
not the cafe in this inftante ; The chart s
brought against the Secretary were fubiv.it ted
to the House when crowded with hufinefs and
but three days before an unavoidable adjourn
ment ; and though their object and tendency
involved his removal ftom office, his ruin a id
hisdifgrace, he had no opportunity of answer
ing them or vindicating his conduct arid cha
racter. But even under this dfiadvantage,
he has been cempleatly exculpated—and his
proceedings fulfy juftified by the Reprefenta;
tives of the nation, and fan&ioned by the ap
proving voice of many hundreds of refpesta
ble .citizens who attended the debates.
Inquiries into the conduct of public officers
are in general attended with very salutary ef
fects, and when they originate in motive 1 ;
truly patriotic and in aconvittion of* mifcoi -
du6t, they reflect credit on those who insti
tute them—at the fame time every candid
mind will allow that charges of a high nature
again ft a public officer, vested with the exe
cution of an important and delicate truit,
charges which excite alarm and diftruflr, and
threaten the national tranquility, ought to "be
preferred with caution and temperance. Any
previous fymtoms of personal diflikc or alter
cation—any long continued evidence of a
rooted disgust, or any avowed reprobation of
systems connected with the officer's stability
and reputation must in the eyes of a judicious,
•public, essentially detract from that merit,
which is alone due to the virtuous and dis
interested patriot, prompted only by pure re
publican principles.
* See Federal Gazette of Saturday lajl.
It is the firft principle with our government
to pay off the public debt ?s fact as the circum
ftanc.es of the people will permit. —Those who
fee the mo ft evil in a public debt, will conlefs
that it is not capable of ham when
the operation ot finking it is kept in regular p/o«
grefs—Th y al'ow that much good comes out
of th's evil. One remarkable efF: £fc of the in
crease of our a&ive capital, is the increased price
of land — New manuf;i£lures and new eriterprizes
are increasing every where. It would beagainit
reason and experience to affirm that the public
debt produces'no benefit# to the citizens at a
distance from the fear of government, and who
may not be poUcfled of the certificates. The
man who has occasion to ask credit—who wants
to borrow or to fell, is sure to find his terms
hard when money \s scarce. On the contrary,
the increase of capital is sure in a great degree
to equalize its benefits to part ef the foci
cty —Thus it is that in almost every operation
of traffic and induftty, each dtftritt of country
•urns to account the addition made 10 the wealth
of tiie whole.
Our party men are extremely afraid of the
government becoming corrupt. These cham
pions of virtue seem to be willing to put their
own purjty in the way of all manner of con
tamination. They consider the Frehch revo
lution as the inoft noble triumph of republican
virtue—and O ! Shame, where is thy blush—
they dare to tell us that the ill success ot the
attempt to censure Governor Clinton's
canvaifers is an event of no less merit and
importance. The inoft audacious ast of a
party to place their favorite in the chair of
state in open contempt of their State consti
tution, is made the fubjeft of praise and ex
ultation. Such an outrage on the rights of
freemen has never happened in our country
before, and we hope it will never happen a
gain—and such an outrage on common sense
and decency as the paragraph alluded to i«
hitherto equally without a fellow.
ANOTHER BANK.
THE State, in cash 'tis said abounds,
To th' amount of many thousand pounds;
Snug in the banks the treasure lies—
A sure defence should dangers rife ;
For while 'tis hid from public view,
It mocks the grafting, fchemiiig crew;
But cunning now exerts us fpiings,
To give the dormant eagles wings ;
Hence a new banking plan is form'd,
And soon the bolted vaults are ftorm'd,
On paper plumes they mount the air,
And fly—the Lord alone knows where;
Meantime the (harks of Speculation,
Laugh at the faqes of the Nation !
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED a/ the PORT#/PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Felicity, Young, New-York
Milden,
Burchen,
Rachel,
John,
Grailbury,
Gavafo,
We hear the (hip Columbia from Arnfter
dam, and the ihip Grange from Liverpool are
arrived in the river.
03* Pricc of Stocks as in our lajl.
ADVERT ISEMtNT.
Thojt pcrfons who have received Subjcrip
tion-Money Jor the Gazette, and thoje who are in
arrears Jor the 'Jan ne t are moji earneJUy requeued to
make payment to the Editor as Joon as pojjible.
Cape-Francois
Curracoa
Cape-FrancoisI " I ' —— nils. Co. Dlh. Cts.
PRICE CURRENT. * £
rt * HUANTIT* — Dollars too Cents cach. Ditto balkets, 12 bottles 5
PHILADELPHIA, MA«ch V ZZS""" J4 f 7
- W h a 1 e 2 r 00
ADUs.U*. Dlb.Ch. 0 jj
NCHORS pr,b. , f 60
Alluni, t.-5..!!., pr.cwt. 433 American d.uo bol.incL .4 ,60
Di.to, Rod. pr. lb. " Pitch, pr. bbl ,73 2
r,' r r rlOR ' 117 140 - Pork, Burlington, per binrtl, ,067
1 ~ , h Lower county 10
Arrack pr. gall. IJ3 •>& Car 01,,., 9
izZhsr* ? a
8-M.1W0.p.. ton. V 34 Plmeo ,' o ' '
Brick*, pr. M. 4 7 y
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. 2 2 13 Raisins, best, pr. keg F33
Ditto, pilot 367 Ditto pr. jar t33
Ditto, small water, per keg 36 40 Ditto pr. box so 3
Beer, American, in bottles, Rice pr. cwt. 3
pr.doz. bottles included, 1 4° pr. barrel _ * 7®
Ditto pi. barrel, 4 67 Rum, Jamaica, pr. gallon i_ 7
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 Antigua 1
-New Lnglaud ii »4 Windward 86.
— Oak *4 l & Barbadoes 87
— Merchantable pine 20 24 Country, N.E. 67
' Sap, do. 12 *3 Salt petre, pr. cwt. 14 33
— Mahogany, per foot 10 Saflafras pr. toa 6 8
The above are the (hallop prices, , Shot ditto 140 14*
for the yard price, add 1 dol- Steel, German pr.lb. 9
' ar 33 cc pts per I°°°. Engli{h,blillered, pr. cwt. 10
Brimilone in rolls, pr.cwt. 2 67 American pr. ton 213 33
Beef, Bolton, per barrel 9 Crowley's pr. 10 67
Country ditto 8 9 Snake root pr. lb. 20 4a
Frcrti, per cwt. 333 467 Soap, Brown per lb. 6
Butter pr. lb. *6 White 8
in kegs io 12 Castile 11
Candles, Sperm, pr.lb. 47 Starch 7
' -Wax 53 56 Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4 560
— Myrtle Wax *3 Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
— Mould, tallow 12 c 1 1 l rr la. vi jo
Dipped ** Sailcloth, EnghOi,No.!,pr. yard, 28
Cbeefe, Englith, pr. lb. »9 Boston.No I ditto 30
■■ Country " 10 , No. 11. 29
Chocolate 18 20 s "gar Lump, pr. lb 24
Cinnamon 240 267 I.Oaf, Tingle refined 25
Cloves 1 32 Ditto, double do. 36
Cocoa pr.cwt >9 " Havannah, white 17 18
Coffee pr.lb 15 >7 Ditto, brown, 11 12
Coal pr. bulhel 24 33 I Muscovado, pr. cwt 13 ; 5
Copperas pr.cwt. 1 67 SpmtsTurpentine pr. gallon 37
Cordage, American, per cwt. 767 8 Salt, Allum pr. bufhcl 44
Cotton pr.lb. 27 37 Liverpool 47
Currants Cadiz 33
Duck, Rudia, pr. piece 11 33 L'ftjon 3?
Ravens 8 93 9 67 Shipbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, 15
Dutch fail duck, t8 20 Ditto Live Oak, 18 67
Feathers pr. lb. 48 Diuo rcd cedar, per foot 33 40
Flax ditto 11 is Shingles 18 inch, per M. 333 367
Flaxfeed pr. buth. 90 o Ditto 2 feet, 53a 6
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 5?5 Ditto 3 feel, dressed, i 3 , 5
Common, S 50 Staves, Pipe pI . 10 00 32
Bur middlings, best 45 White Oak hoglhead, 20 33
■ Meal, Indian 313 Red oak do " >9 5°
ditto Rye, 313 Leogan 2133
• Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. So 153 Barrel 16
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Heading 25 33
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 466 Skin »> P»«, b ' a ?'■ P ie « 467
11 o -Minks 20 40
Do. pr.gall. 80 90 F y
Glue, pr cwt. 20 at 33 . Ditto g red 4 ,20
Ginger, white race, per lb. 7 Msrlins
Ditto, common 7 -c-n r-
Ditto,ground pr.lb. ic Bear"' 33 3 7
Oinieng, «o 24 D 0 c
r> \» n ——Racoons 27 60
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.calk, .q 71 4 n '
. r , v 1 »o /J t Muik-rats 11 20
Ditto, hne glazea 4 D c
Grain, Wheat pr. bulh I 3 ®" Ver 'PP r - lb " 6 ? 133
Rye * 6 i D«>. "> ha.r 20 30
Oats 35 Tar,N.Jerfey,24gal.p. bbl. 1
• Indian corn 53 Carolina, 32 gall. t33 167
T Barlev x j 3 Turpentine pr. bbl. J67 2
Best (helled pr. lb. 7 Tobacco, J. River, best joolb. 360 373
——Buckwheat, per bulh. 40 inferior 3 33
Hemp, imported, pi. tori, ito 146 67 , 0 , 4 '
American, pr. lb. 4 4 l 1 , 3 0 33
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 Coloured Maryland, 533 8
Hides, raw pr.lb. q 11 , " a 4°
Hops ,7 p°ft g -' C '/ 2 40
Hoglhead hoops, pr. M. t 5 Eaftern-lhore 2 2 ,3
r ** — Carolina, new 2 7 3
Indigo, French per lb. i 20 1 53
■ Carolina i j 20 Tea, Hyson pr. lb. gg i 28
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 33 Hyson Ikin, 53 60
Iron, Callings pr. cwt. 3 4 Souchong, co 93
■ Bar pr.ton, 85 33 Cong®, 43
~~- p 'g 24 26 67 Bohea. 33 36
Sheet 173 33 Tallow, refined, pcrlb. 9
——Nail rods no 111 Tin pr. box, l 3 33 l 3 67
Junk, pr.cwt. 4 c . ~
lard, hogs pr. lb. 9 >0 P j' b " 47 £ 3
lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 533 r. 67 do ,33 ,67
in bars 533 7 ' Vamifl., per gallon 33 37
white 10 10 67 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 27
red 640 667 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
leather, foal, pr. lb. 17 20 wine, Madeira,pr. pipe, 176 226
lignum v,ts pr. ton, 560 6 Lilhon , ao 126
logwood go Teneriffe.pr. gallon 63
Mace pr.lb. q 1 Fav ,l r ' J
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. "8 Port pr. pipe ~333
—f.cond quality 6 4 — Ditto ,n bottles, pr.doz. " 4
Madder, best pr. lb. ,6 20; claret * 4 6
Marble, wrought, pr foot, .33 267 Sherry pr.gall. %o ,20
Maftfpars ditto 33 Malaga L 80
MolafiVs pr.gall. 53 57 6 77
Alultard per. lb. 8-
flour, in bottles, pr.doz. 1 ac COURSE 0F EXCHANGE.
Nails, Bd. lod. \zd. and 20d. pr.lb. ic 0n Lan^on » 3° da ys» per £ .100 fterl. 413J
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 at a y* 4*o
— Pr ' ga "' a 3 Amft " dan " 6° da'ys, pr. guilder, 07
07 90 days, 35
FOR SALE,
By the Subjaiber, at Walnut-Street Wharf,,
. BILL of EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediate uie, in pipes & quarter calks,
TENERIFfE WINE, in pipes,
SHERRY WINE, in quarter calks.
•WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proof,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Baits 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13-4 Inch CABLE. 120 fa'homs 'one
GEORGE MEADE.°
• fiHadilphia, Jan. 19, 1793. ep2m
NIW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG
Of the very firtt quality,and laieft impomiiou
from Canton, via New-Yoik, by retail,at
No. i 9,
Third, between Chcfnui and Market Street*.
N. B. A few Boxes ofthe above HYSON forfeit'
PLANS
City of Washington,
by the Booksellers,
CAREY, iOUNG, (J CRUKSHAKK,
324
By THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVID
STUART.Sc DANIEL CARROLL,
Esquires,
Commission ek s appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, &c. within the
City of Wellingtons for the reccpuon of Con
gress, and tor tneir permanent refiUcuce after
the year x 800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT Of THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
1 Supetb Hotel, with baths, )
outThoules, Scc.&c. to coil )
1 Cacti Prize
x ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
5,000 are
1,000
500
100
50
2 5
20
10
20 ditto
20 ditto
iOO ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737
33,263 Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at leajl the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its objett thereby')
in a magnificent building designed both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expence must neceflarily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
CommiflTioners having agreed to preferit in re
turn a fufficient quantity of excellent free-ftone»
togeiher with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at something more than
p(}r: In this important instance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offcied to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate podeflor of the ticket drawn aagainfl
its number.—All the other prizes will be paid,
without deduction, in one month after the diawing y by
the City Treasurer at Washington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9th of Septembei next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Tickets mav be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
Treasurer of Washington ; Thayer S3 Bartlet, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Gideon Denijon, Sa
vannah ; Meffi s. James Wejl & Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Gilman, Boston ; and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the best Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if presented
on or before the 10th »f April next; and a pre
ference will be given 10 the Artist for a Con
tra#, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat l»is plan. The ground 011 which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ere&ed, will
be a corner lot of about go by 200 feet, with i
back avenue to the stables, &c. Se&ions and
estimates of the expense will be expected
with the elevations, See. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars mult be regarded by the Archite6t as the
utmofl limit in the expense intended for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
March 6, 1793-
War Department,
JANUARY 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hercbv given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are entitled for fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the sth day ol March 1793, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiffioncrs of the Loans
within the states rcfpe£hvely, under the usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment must be ac
companied by the following vouchers :
lft. The certificate given by the ilate, fpecify
ing that the person poffefling the fame is in faift
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as such, he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came beiore me, one of the Justices
of the county of in the (late of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his pofleffion wm giv
en, of which the following is a copy (the cer
ttficate given by the state to be recited) That
he served (regiment, corps or veflcl) at the
time he was disabled, ana that he now resides
in the and county of and has rtTided
there for the last years, previous to which
he resided in
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment
by an attorney, the said attorney, besides the
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a special letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
I, A. B. of county of state of
do hereby constitute and appoint C. D. of
xny lawful attorney,, to receive in my behalf of
mv pension for fix months, as an Invalid
of the United States, from the. 4th day of Sep
tember 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
1 793*.
Signed and Sealed
in ihe Prcfence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators
mud be accompanied with legal evidence of
their rcfpcdlive offices, and also of the time the
luvalid died, whose pension thev may claim.
By Command of the Prelident
of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War,
PROPOSALS
tor Te-printing a new, enter,*;.,
the
Errors of Education.
JijlabilUlv oj mind impedei wrrtad I, r r,,, ,
and youth, j n otunmal e di ,
tllvjlrute the preeeptj 9/ vt'. TU » J,'"
ewr7a//i„ W i.KKok.
The European edition ofihi.wnrl j
I.# y «. fen.,,,,, „« j;;;, 1 ;™
'J hr W " '*<" P<icr y-Ttm t,j
AmertMM t&tion, wbtch Bi,l! be well
... enure new type ,„d si« wn| *'
delivered to lubfc.be,. one .oUime'ol 2,*
4 »0 p.ge. „mo. neatly bound, a< a
each, lobe paid ..n recewing ,he b- ok, v,hu»
will be pu. 10 pref. „ loo„ „ , f u », cltnl J*
ber of fublcription. are ohla.aed to defray Z
txpenie of (he undcrukinf.
50,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
, o,ill be received at the Hooiflorei
of Mcfri. r. Uobfon. W. Young, 7 Cruklh ~ j
V ■7l k 'fi n ' a *' l '» Mr "<»n KammereJ,, A.' £
Xorth Jhnd jlrert, Pbladelpka; h Mell it h 'JZ
S Campbell, and T. Allen, Zijell,rT, t
hT I' a 3 r°' Tientim by ik,
Sutjcnte, in Burhngttn -, "id by ciun „ M,
hahds fubfcnption papers are lodged.
Feb. 18,1793. ISAAC NEALE.
to,ooo
10, coo
20,0©0
150,000
Dollars 350,000
advertisement.
XTOTICE is hereby g.vcn, Hut the Com.
J. X miffitinert appointed by the Board 0 f
Trullees of the Univetfity of North-Carol,na
will attend at the town of H.llfborsuri, on the'
lgfii, 19th and a«th days of April n,*t, 1 0 , ,h e
pinole of receiving proposal. from such per.
tons as may be difoofed to uuuertake the Builo
ings nFthc^Untverfity.
FREDERICK HARGETT, Chairman.
ONE on Walnut-street, near Kourth.ftreet
23 feet front, hat two parlours below, the
f.out one 2i£ by :7 J feet, the back pariour is
18 by 14 feet. The front room up (lain is 261
by 17$ feet. There are five fcouil chamberi io
this house, bcfides the garret Is divided into
three rooms, in two of them there arc fire,
places.
The other House it 27 fe« upon Wilnut.
street, and 53 feet upon 4th ftnet; there arc tw*
good parlours below, one of them 25 by to l-t
feet, the other 25 by t8 1-2 feet, ana seven com
plete bed-chambets; bcfides the gairet 11 di
vided tntn 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places, The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largest house has also ■
houfe-kfeper's room. It is intended there {hall
be a coinmiinication from both of these houfct
to a neighboring tce-houle, fufficiently large 10
supply 3 houses. Within 50 yirds of these
houses, there will be compleat (fables and coach
houses, for boih houses ; they will he finifhed
in the most compleat manner, ana the keys
ready to be delivered early in the fummcr.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
oth r half may be paid bv inffalmentt, or the
whole may remain for 5 years, paying inteieft
and giving security om tne premifrs.
for terms of falc or lease, apply to the Sub
scriber,
Who has J or SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
sixteen (hillings and fix-pence, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS, that will contain two
and a half and three and a halt bushels.
Philadelphia, "Jan. 19, 1792. epim
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will t»c of
fered for sale at auction, by the Commit
fioners, on the 17th day of September next.-*
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
down, the refidueat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly intereflon the whole pnuci
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Com'rs.
Extract of an A6l of the General Aflembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Qo-
Jumbia, and the City ot Wafhingtnn.
44 Be it enabled, That any foreigner may by
deed. or will, hereafter to be made, take and hold lands
within that partoj the Jaid Territory which lies wHh*
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fume lands may be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizem
oj thi) State: Provided, That no foreigner full,
in virtue hereof i be entitled to any futthei or other
privilege of a citizen
Jan. iq.
Insurance Company.
AT a general meeting (by adjournment} of
the Insurance Company of
on Wedncfday the 16th inllant,
THAT the Instalments which, accordingt#
the Constitution, will become due on the iccon®
Monday of July and January next, or either of
them, may be paid by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so pay> n £
iuch inftalmcnt, or instalments, shall receive a
proportionate fhareofthe Dividends thereafter
to be made, calculating such share from the ft™
day of the month fuccceding luch payments
fpe&ively. Extradt from the Minutes,
EBEN. HAZARD,Sec/ry.
Philadel
hi the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPED Terry.
»v M.t ~ , ZA , A , low
TO be SOLD, og LEASED
for seven or ten yeaes
THE FOLLOWING '
HOUSES,
GEORGE MEADE.
It was Resolved,
)hia, Jan. 2
TICKETS