of§
A A'ACJOhAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AN L) SATURDAYS BY JOJIN F£NNO, No. 34. NORTH F IF)' H-STREET, HHII. A Dt.LPH! A
[No. 78 of Vol. IV.] Wednesday, February 27, 1793.
she foHowing Report wits laid before tin
Honfe of Representatives of the
United Suites, oil the 15 tli inll.
The Committee to whom was recommitted
the Report of the Committee appointed U
enquire into the Causes of the Failure oj
the Expedition under Major General St.
Clair, together with the Documents relat
ing thereto, including the Letter from the
Secretary at IVar, and the Memorial ej
Samuel Hodgdott, have proceeded in re
examine the Documents formerly before
them, as far as femed nectjfary—to hear
and examine other teflimony, produced to
them—to hear and cnnfider the written
communications, made by the Secretary at
IVur, Samuel Hodgdon, and the Cum
tnander in Chief of the Expedition } and,
as the refill of their farther enquiries,
mole the following
Supplementary Report:
T
X H E original Report commences
in the following words—
" The contract for the supplies of the
army on the route from Fort Pitt, was
made by Theodoiius Fowler, with the
Secretary of the Treasury, and bears date
the twenty-eighth day of Qftober, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety ; that
at the fame time a bond in the penalty
of one hundred thousand dollars, with
Walter Livingfton and John Cochran,
securities thereto, was entered into, for
the due execution of the contract : That
on the third day of January, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-one, the con
trad was wholly transferred from the
said Fowler, to William Duer, a copy of
which transfer was lodged in the office of
the Secretary of the Treasury ; that by
letter from the Secretary at War, bearing
diie the t'-vcrvty-fiftii. us February, oaa
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one,
aSdrcffed to William Duer, it appears
that he was considered as contractor ;
tkat no correspondence appears to have
taken place fubfeqtiently to that time be
tween Theodoiius Fowler and either the
Treasury or War Departments."
From documents received by the com
mittee, since their lad appointment, it
appears, that the copy of the beforc-men
tibned transfer was not lodged in the of
fice of the Secretary of the Treasury, un
til the seventh of April, one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-one ; at which
time it was received by the Secretary of
the Treasury, under cover of a letter from
William Duer, informing him of the cir
cumftanoe of the said transfer, and mak
ing requifrtions for certain advances of
money. That the Secretary of the Trea
sury, by letter in reply, of the fame date,
agrees to make the advances required, to
WilliamTDiier, as the agent of 7'heodo/ius
It appears, that all the warrants, issued
r rom the Treasury, for the purposes of
vhis contrast, were issued to William Du
er, as the agent of Theodoiius Fowler.
I'he Secretary of the Treasury has fur
nifhsd the committee with the written
opinions of the Attorney General of the
U-nited States, and several other lawyers
of eminence, all of whom concur in opi
nion, that the securities to the bond, ori
ginally given by Theodoiius Fowler, for
the execution of this contract, are now
lefponfible for all damages, consequent
«ipon any breach of that contract.
The Secretary of War, who alone ap
pears to have been the agent, on the part
of the UnitcdStates, in all things relating
to the execution of the com raft, has al
ways coricfponded with William Duer,
as the contra&or, and his conefpoadence
commences at a date prior to that of the
copy of the contract lodged at the Trea
ury.
i he original Report pioceeda :
" That on the sixth of March, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, a
f'»ntra£t was entered into by Wiiliam
~" er » w 'th the Secretary at War, for
'Upplying the troops with provisions, un
til their arrival at Fort Pitt, and at Fort
ntt. A bond wa» at the fame time en
terevi iiUfl.by llye said William for i
the due execution of the said contract, in
the penalty of four thousand dollars,
without any security whatsoever."
It appeals, by are-examination of the
documents formerly before the committee
that the date and terms of the last men
tioned contrast, were misrepresented ; thtf
date being the twenty-sixth, instead of
the fuih of April, and the terms of the
contract, being to furnilh provisions for
the.troops until their arrival at Fort Pitt,
bat not during their continuance at that:
place. The fidl of these miflakts appear
to have been merely casual, the second
appears to have avifen from paying great
er attention to the manner in which the
contradt was realiy executed, than to the
terms of the contract itfelf, it Jaa^ n g been
conceived by the committee, that Colonel
Neville, che agent for supplying the
tt'oqps during their continuance at Foit
' Pitt, afi under the Jafi Mentioned con-.
trail. This circumftaricc is rendered'the
leis material, from the consideration, that
according to the plan of the campaign,
no delay of the troops at Fort Pitt was
counted upon. The ilatement is other
wise correct.
The Secretary at War, in his commit
nicarion, states, that it was not the cus
tom of the office, to require other lecuri
ty than that of the contractor, for the
dueeKccutionof contracts of small amount;
and it appears by a letter of the Secreta
ry of the Treasury written since the for
mer report, that the Secretary at War
consulted with him upon the occasion
alluded to, and that he agreed in opini
on, that farther fecuiity was not necef
fai y.
It is stated in the original report, after
speaking of one of the contraftor'g agents,
that
" It appears by letters from John
Kean, another of the contra&ors agents,
that no monies had been received by him
on the eighth of May, and it appears
that on the twenty-third of March there
was advanced to William Duer on the
last mentioned contract, ti<e sum of fif
teen thousand dollars."
Upon re-examining the letters of John
Kean, it appears that he nad received the
sum of foDr hundred and fifty dollars, and
no more, before the aforefaid eighth day
of May, which was before overlooked by
the committee. And it appears from
documents received by the committee
since their report, that the sum of fifteen
thousand dollars was not advanced to
William Duer on account of the last men
tioned contract, on the twenty-third of
March. The committee were led into
this mistake, by a document leceived from
the Tteafurer, repiefenting the fad as
Hated in the original report, which docu
ment is (till befoie the committee.—The
true llate of this tranfaftion as recently
dated, appears to be as follows :
A wartaut issued in favor of Joseph
Howell, on the twenty-third of March,
for the sum of fifteen thousand dollars, for
the use of the war department generally,
and not for William Duer, as Hated in
the aceount rendered by the Treasurer:
Of which sum, were advanced to William
Duer, on the twenty-sixth of March, four
thousand dollars; on the eighth day of
May following, were paid to James Smith,
comra&ing agent for William Duer, one
thousand dollars ; and between the twen
ty-firlt 6f May and the twenty-third of
July, were paid to John Kean, another
agent for William Duer, four hundred
and thirty«feven dollars and ninety-one
cents ; making the whole sum advanced
on the last mentioned contrafl, fivt thou
sand fourliiNidred and thirty seven dollars,
and ninety-one cents. —The residue of the
fifteen thousand dollars is suggested to
have been applied to the use of the war
department generally-
The original report dates, that—
" It appears from the correspondence
of General Butler, from the ninth of May
to the ninth of June, repeated complaints
309
were raarl? v.* fatal inifmanagcir.ents and
ncgle£ts, in the quartet Waiter's zmi milf
tary stores departments, particular ly as
to tents, kriapfacks, camp kettles, car
tridge boxes, pack-saddles, &c. all, of
which articles were deficient in quantity
and bad in quality. The pack-iaddlfs
particularly were made in Philadelphia,
which with the tranfportution, amounted
to more than,double the price at which
they might lisve been procured at Fart
Pitt, and wete found upon examination
to be unfit fop use."
Mr. Hodjdon has produced to the
committee, a number of ex-parte affida
vits and certificates, to prove, that these
several were furnifhed, in 1 effici
ent quantities, and of good quality.—
Molt of these affidavits however, were
made by the manufacturers of the respec
tive articles, or persons in the employ
ment of Mr. Hodgdon, and generally
written in adiffeient hand-writing, from
that of the- lubfcribirtg' cltponeiun ; ami*
molt of the certificates, by p:ilons un
known to the committee- But the testi
mony formerly taken by the committee,
and the corroboration of it by the evi
dence of refpeftable and difintereited per
sons, lately taken by the committee, in
presence of Mr. Hodgdon, appears abun
dantly fufficient to juilify the statement
of fadts, contained in the original report.
With refpeft to the pack-saddles howe
ver, it is necelTary to remark, that foine
qualification of the expression used in the
original report, would be proper. They
appear to have been made of different
sizes : those of the largell size arc proved
to have been wholly unfit for use, the
horses used for pack-horses being general
ly small. Some of the smaller pack-sad
dles, however, appear to have been used
in the iampaigr., and to have answered
the intended purpose better than was at
fir ft expedted.
It is stated in the 01 iginal report that—
" The arms sent forward appear not
to have been duly examined, and arrived
at Foit Pitt extremely out of order, and
mauy totally unfit for use, which circum
stance rendered repairs ablolutely necessa
ry, and added to the delay of the troops,
at Fort Pitt."
The committee arc led to conclude,
from authentic information recently re
ceived, that the complaint of the arms in
tended for the regular troops and levies,
is unfounded ; some of the arms appear to
have been damaged, after they were put
into the hands of the troops, from their
inexperience or carelessness, tho' deliver
ed to them in good order.
The committee were induced to make
the unqualified statement contained iri the
original report, from the unqualified man
ner in which this fubje£t is spoken of by
some of the witnesses, formerly examined
by the committee ; they not having ftaied
with Sufficient prtcilion, the caufea of the
arms being out of repair, nor fpecifying
the probable number requiring repairs.
'1 he original report proceeds with the
following txpreffion :
" It appears, that a great proportion
of the powder, supplied for the use of the
aimy, was not of good quality, tho' an
experiment made by major Fergufon, at
Fort Pitt, with a howitzer, who report
ed in favor of the quality of the powder."
The committer are fatislied, from ex
periments made since the original report
by captain Ford, at Fort Washington,
upon reque ft of the Secretary at War,
and by samples of the powder from thence,
actually furniflied the committe, that the
powder was oiiginally of good quality ;
but that a certain quantity of it was da
maged by exposure to the air and moisture
afur being issued to the troops- And it
appears to have been powder of this de
feription, upon which experiments were
made by some of the officers in the expe
dition, which produced unfavorable im
pieflions as to the quality of the powder
in general ; for it i* certain, a belief was
currently entertained among ft the officers,
[Whole No. 400.J
, tfaa? tta pow<let jn genera* of
'good quality. 'iie- ii/uifitient yN/i nt> e
powder,suffer the army took the field,
is accounted for from the bad qu&litj off
the tents. It is in U llimony to tlie (#m
mittee, that tfteat quantities of tl»e fated
ammunition were a&ually 1 endwed uteleft
from that cause.
It is ftatecl in tlis original report,
that-*-
" Mr. Hodgdon was appointed qiiar
er malter-general in the month of-Mawh,
ind continued at Philadelphia until the
4th of June, he'then proceeded to jFort
Pitt, where he ariived on the
the fame month—no fnfiicicnt caufovliive
appeared to rh*i' committee to juflify thi(
delay, and his preftnee with
' peared to have been, efP ntially
pre.vioufly to that time." >
In this ftatemei.t, the duration of Mr.
flodgdon's stay at Foit Pitt v as casual
ly omitteii, which appears to have been
from tiw tctith of June, till the V*«n,Y
fixth of Ai»grtift. -The insertion of this
fa& will fufficiently explain the sense of
the committee, in the inference tefpeft
ing the time, in which the presence of
the quarter-roaster-general was neccfTdvjr
at the army.
It is dated in the original report,
that—
" There were fix hundred and leventy
five (land of a-ms, at Fort Washington,
on the firfl: of June, and moll of tfiofi
totally out of repair."
These arms* the precise number of
which appears not to be accurately afecr
tained, are admitted by the Secretary at
War, to have been at Fort Washington,
in the situation described, but he fnggefts,
that they were old and ufelefsarms, which
had been oolkfled at that place, and
were not counted upon, as any part of
the supply of arms for the expedition.—
It appears, that the regular troops and
levies were completely supplied with ?rms,
without recurrence to this (lock: but a
number of them was repaired, by orders
of the commander in chief, of the ex
pedition, with a view, as he suggests, to
arm the militia from Kentucky, who, it
was expected, would arrive, either in
efficiently armed, or not armed at all :
and he did not conceive the arrangements,
made by the war department, competent
to arming the militia, together with the
other troops.
The original repoit dates, that
" The privates of the levies received
but three dollars pay each, fiom the time
of thei'i refpeftive inliflments to the time
of their refpedive difiharges, and were
adtially discharged without farther pay
or Settlement ; notes ftf discharge were
piven them, Specifying the time of their
Service, and bearing - indorsations, that
some advances had been made to them on
account, without dating the amcunt,
the objed of which is fuggelted to have
been to prevent transfers ; the intended
effi.d was not produced by the meafurt ;
the notes were fold for trifling considera
tions, the real sums due on the note*
were various, from ten to twenty-five
dollars, and they weie frequently fold for
one dollar, or one gallon of whiflcy ;
the monies foi the pay of the levies did
not leave Philadelphia, till the fourth of
December, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-one, nor arrive at Eort-
Waihington, till the third of January,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety
two, some time after the last inlilled levies
are known to have been entitled to their
difchaiges."
In addition to the reasons contained in
the original report, refpe£ting the diCr
charging of the levies, without their (li
pulattd pay, which arc admitted by the
Secretary at War, to have heen justly
dated, he has, Sahls late lommunicatioD,,
suggested to the committee, that, at the
time of the discharge of the levie«, there
was a&ually, in the hands of the<juarter
nufter-gcueral, t!ie sum v.f fixtcee
,'*« UJIForeign Affairs.
The Bmifh Packet Queen Charlotte, Capt. Fargie,
arrived at New-iotk on Thurjday lajl in 38 daxs
jiom Falmouth, Jht brought London papers to the
9th cj January.
VIENNA, November 25.
r i? no more talk of peace—our
X court is re'olved to facrifiep every thing
rather than yield to France ; besides the 10
battalio is which are already marching, fur
ther orders have been given for 110,000 men.
This immense army will require 15,000 l»or£-
es for the transport of the ammunition* and
provisions, and 30/500 men to conduit the
waggons, to follow the magazines, The
Hungarian army of 72,000 men are already
on their march, and are arrived in the envi«
rons of Vienna. Toe Archduke Palatine
commands them in pet ion. The Diet of Ra
tifoou has now given its coitfent to the triple
quota to be furnilhed by toe different States
of the Roman Empire. The. Elector of Ba
varia has already furnifhed his contingent,
which is to rendezvous at Donauwert, and
from thence to march straight to Manheim.
A courier, which arrived on the 26th of
Kovember from England, brought very im
portant dispatches relative to the mediation
fcettfeen Austria and France, which England
has taken upon her fa If.
Dec. 15. We have accounts that the Porte
It arming against Railia.
M E N T Z, pec. 15.
General Cultino has declared this city to
tie in a state of liege, and has retired to 1 it
with 4:3,000 men, who are determined to de
fend it to the last. The Pruflians and Hes
sians, with the King and the Landgrave at
the head of about 70,200 men, are surround
ing us close, with a formidable train of ar
tillery. Our garrison has made a sortie, in
which the i> ruffians 101 l 15 meu aind two can
nons.
BERLIN, Dec. IJ.
Warlike preparations go on Sere with the
alacrity, and every arrangement is
making for a inoft vigorous campaign, to be
entered upon as early next spring as poflible.
HANOVER, Dec. 17.
The Regency of this Electorate have re
ceived orders from his Britannic niajefty,
our ele&or, to dispatch for the army which
is to be formed in the Empire the contingen
cy of this electorate.
BRUSSELS, Dec. 15.
We have just learned that the day before
yesterday an action took place between the
French and the Aultrians potted on the
Heights of Verviers. The battle was sup
ported with great valor on both fides, till the
imperialists were obliged to give way, leav
ing Rechen and Herve to the French, and
retiring to the woods of Aix-la-Ciiapelie.—
We expect farther details.
PARIS, December 33.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Wednesday, December 26.
TRIAL OF LOUIS XVI.
It having been decided on Tuesday, in
tortfequence of a request from the Command
ant General of Paris, that the unfortunate
Louis should be brought to the bar the next
morning, at 9 o'clock, the fitting of Wednef
dav commenced at that hour.
Within a few minutes afterwards, the Pre
sident said, " I announce to the All'embly
that Louis and his defenders are ready to ap
pear at the bar. I forbid the members or the
ipeftaturs to (hew any signs of censure or ap
probation. Louis then appeared at the bar,
accompanied Ijy M. M. Lamorignon Mallher
bes, Tronchet, de Seze, the Mayor of Paris,
and the Commandant of the National Guards.
The Pie fide nt said, Louis the Convention
has decreed, that you ihould be definitively
heard to-day.
" My Coanfel will read to you my
Louis,
defence."
M. do Seze then read for some hours the
defence, of which the substance is here given,
as exactly as we can collect it, though the
whole could by no means be contained within
the limits of a newspaper. It began thus:
" Citizen Reprelentatives of the Nation,
the moment is then arrived, in which Louis,
accused in the name of the French people, and
surrounded by the Counlel which humanity
and the law have given him, is about to deli
ver his juftificattnfi.' Even the silence with
■which we are surrounded, informs me, that
the day of jaltice has succeeded to the day of
presumption and pre-judgment. The mif
fortunes of Kings have something much more
affecting and more sacred than those of other
men ; and he who once occupied the nioft
brilliant Throne in the univ«rle, ought to ex
cite the molt powerful You have
called him into the midst of you, and he is
Come, with«alnniefs, with dignity, itrong in
his innonccnce, fuppoiteciby the teftinionv of
a whple life. He has difiovered to you such
to be his thoughts, by diicuffmg, without pre
paration, without examination,charges which
be could n'(t forefee, and offering an extem
porary defence. Louis could only tell you of
his innocence ; I come to piove it. Would
that this circle could increase tffl the whole
multitude of citizen',, who have received a
dreadful imprelfion againll him, could be con
tained in it, that they might form a different
opinion. Louis knows that Europe experts,
with impatience, the judgment which you
shall give; he knows, that posterity will, one
day, inveltigate it j but he considers only his
Contemporaries. Like liinj «ve torget poste
rity, and fee only the present moment."
M. de Seze then said, that the question
be confiderid in two points of view,
aitker with refpert to Louis bcfcie or after
his acceptance of the Constitution. The Na
tion, he admitted, was tlie Sovereign, and
was tree to give itfelf what fonn of govern
ment it pleal'ed ; but the Nation itfelf could
not exercile its own Sovereignty, and mult,
therefore, delegate it. In 1789 the Nation
thole a monarcbia! government, and decreed
the inviolability of its chief. He then (hew
ed that the forfeiture of the throne was the
only puniihment to which the King, accord
ing to the Constitution, could be fubjeft; and
that it was only for the crimes committed af
ter this destitution, that he could be tried,
like other citizens. . Either the crimes of
which Louis was accused, were held crime»
by the Constitutional Ast, and of course, if
proved, were to be puniihed according to that
Ast, or they were not to- be found in it; and
were, therefore, not to De Buuiflted at all-
H* would, however, adin>t,fur argument's
fake, that the crimes were all proved, and all
mentioned in the Act. What
then was the punilhrilent! The abdication of
the Throne. Bui it might be (aid. that the
nation had already abolifhcd tlie Throne, so
that there was 110 further puniihment ot Lou
is; were new laws to be made, applicable on
ly to one aan, and formed fincethe accusation
itfelf!
If, however, Louis was to be deprived of
bis inviolability as a King, he inuft then, of
course, have the right of being judged like a
Citizen, and in that cafe, where were the pre
fervatory forms of trial decreed for citizens
by the law? Where were tfie Jurors, tfiofe
hoflages for the lives and honor of Citizens ?
Where was the proportion of fuffrages which
the law had so wifely established ? Where that
silent ballot which inciolcd within the fame
urn, the opinion and conscience of thfe Judge ?
4t I speak to you/' said M. ,de* Seze, 44 with
the freedom of a free man ; I search among
you for Judges, and I fee only Accusers; you
would give judgment upon Louis, and you
have accused him ; you would try him, and
you have already expressed your will.
" As to tbe charge of hav ing wished to dis
solve the National .AfTembly* Was it forgot
ten that Louis had convoked it P Was it for
gotten that during 150 years Princes, more
jealous of their authority, had constantly re
fufed that convocation ? Was it forgotten,that
but for Louis—but for the numerous facri
fices tosvhich he had consented, the audienee
could not then be fitting to deliberate upon
the interests of the State ?"
He would not then speak of the Memoir in
whichTallien was said to have the care of pro
ducing a Counter Revolution intruded in
part to him ; but even upon an ordinary tri
al, could it be permitted, that papers taken
from a citizen, without an inventory and uu
fealed, by the invasion of his house, should bfc
produced in the evideuce againil him ? In
some of these papers mention was made of
money which had been expended ; but even if
it was denied that this expence was for pur
poses of benevolence, could it be forgotten
how easily Kings were circumvented and de
ceived ? The plan of a letter to La Fayette
and Mirabeau was spoken of, but this letter
had not been sent; and as to the letter of
thanks to Bouille, the Constituent AfTembly
itfelf had voted thanks to that officer. But
the words werefVill to be uttered which would
immediately overthrow the whole series of
accusations—they were these : . 4i s[ub
to all these circumstances, Louis accepted
the Constitution. The Constitution was the
padfc of alliance between the People and the
King—there was no longer any contention—
the past was forgotten. What had been done
subsequent to this acceptance was now to be
examined.
" The Constitution had not ordered the
guarantee of the King for the Ministers ; but,
on the contrary had commanded the refpon
iibility of the Ministers for the King ; and
even if the Constitution was forgotten, the
King and his Ministers could not be both ac
cused for the fame a<fts. Louis had been ac
cused of delay ing the execution of the decree
relative to Avignon—the Minister Oeleffart
had been accuTed of the fame thjng. Louis
had been accuted of not communicating in
telligence of the Treaty of Pilnitz ; but was
not that the province of.the if
it hadheen a public in {tea d of a secret tranf
aftion ? He had been reproaehed with the
troubles of Nimes, Jales, and other places ;
but was the King to be answerable for all the
troubles of a great Revolution ? The account
given by Narboune was laid to the charge of
Louis ; but had not the National Afl'cmbly
itftlf declared, that Narbonne carried with
him the regrets and the confidence of the Na
tion ? ahe surrender of Longwy and Verdun
weie imputed to him ; but were not the in
habitants of these places the guilty persons ?
And who had appointed the Cpmmander of
Verdun, who chose rather to die than to
yield ?—Was it not Louis
M. dc Seze pursued his speech with much
perspicuity, contending and (hewing, that ei
ther Louis had no of the circum
ttances with Which he was charged, or that
they were not crimtiya! ; or that he could not
be held responsible for them ; or that, if ie
jfponfible, the punifliment could.not justly, or
even lawfully be greater thau the deposition.
With refpeft to ftie affair of the 10th of
August, he argued, that the King had made
no preparation for the defence of his own Pa
lace ; that the condi tut ion al magistrates {vera
with him, and that one of those read the arti
cle of the law wMch authorized the oppofitiQn
of force to force ; that when he was invited
to the AffemblV, he went there, and that, the
battle did not commence till an hour after
ward*. It trad been fa id by many deputies in
the Convention, that thfcy had aflifted in pro
ducing the events of that clay : If then, they
had been premeditated, how couid Louis be
accused of them ? Louis, who had never given
a sanguinary order; who, at Wetmes, chofc
ratliqr to return a captive than to expjfc the
-310-
life of one man ; who, on the 2oth of June, re
futed evpry fort of defence, and chose rather
toreinairi alone in the midst of his people • —
Louis, of whom history would be heard to fay,
that during a reign of twenty years he had
borne only an example of moderation,jultice He
economy ! who h-)d abolished servitude in his
domains ; who, when the people wiihed for
liberty, gave it to them ?
Tliere was liere some murmur ; but the
Counsel went through several other articles
of the accusatory ast, which it is less materi
al to notice here, and admonilhed the Conven
tion that history would judge their judgment.
At the conclufmn of the speech Louis role
and said, " Citizens, the means of my de
fence have beenjult exiled to you j I (hall
not relume them. In speaking to you, per
haps, for the last time, I declare that ijiy con*
science reproaches me with nothing. My de
fenders have laid only the tiuth.
" My heart is torn when I perceive mylelf
fufpefted of having wiihed to (hed the blood
of the people, and especially of being the au
thor of what palled on the loth of Augull.
I avow, that the multiplied proofs of my love
for the people seem to me fufficient to remove
me from this charge,and prove,that I have not
feared to expose myfelf that blood might be
lived."
The President presenting a note to Louis,
asked him if he knew the writing ?
Louis—No.
Prelidert—Do you recollect these live keys?
Lonis—l Cannot immediately recollect
them : I know I returned some to Thierry
when I was at the Convent of the Feuillans,
but cannot positively fay that these are the
fame.
President—Have you nothing else to fay in
your defence?
Louis—No.
Pref>dept-»-You may withdraw,
Lou's and his Counsel withdrew,
The AfTembly remained silent some mi
nutes, when Manuel addrelTed thejn as fol
lows,:
4< Citizens, I require Louis's defence to be
deposited in the Court as well as his accusation,
and that it, as well as every other proceeding,
should be printed, distributed in less than 24
hours to the members of the AfTembly, and
<ent to the different departments. I move
likewise, that we adjourn this business fdr
three days."
Geniffeux and Thuriot, demanded that the
defence of Louis should be signed by him and
his Counsel.—Decreed.
Dahern—lt is the practice of every tribu
nal, after having the defence of the acrufed,
to pass immediate judgment. I demand that
the nominal appeal shall be immediately tak
en on this question : Shall Louis fuffer death,
or shall he (Loud applause from the
Tribunes.)
The President desired silence.
It was proposed that Louis ihould be imme
diately conduced back to the Temple.—De
creed. 1
Ba/Jre. —I demand that judgment should be
patted on t,ouis before we adjourn. (Loud
clapping from the fralleries.)
Lanjuinais.— I rife to oppose the motion of
Bazire. The time of cruelty is parted ; fays he,
no longer let decrees be forred from us. Is it
wished that wc should deliberate without hav
ing had lime to consider the defence ? Is it
wished that Louis the last should be judged by
the conspirators of the famous day of the lOih
of August ?
(The mountain uttered dreadful cries, and re
quired that the Speaker should be sent to the
Abbaye prison.)
Lanjuinais insisted that the members of the
Convention could not be at the fame timeaccu
ftrs and ditpenfeis of the law. He demanded
the report of the decree, which declares that
Louis fhail he judged by the Convention; and
that they (hould confine themfelvcs to taking
proper precautions till they ihould decree by
what tribunal Louis {hould be judged.
The tiial was interrupted by a letter from the
defenders of Louis XVlth, in which they ob
served, that the speech pronounced in favor of
the Prince, digested in haste, and filled up in
different parts with fcratcbes and alterations,
ought not to be considered as the copy of that
which Ihould be made public. The Counsel
therefoie demanded a fight ol the proofs before
it was published, which was accordingly
granted.
Lecointre demanded an arrest of judgment
for three days.
Dubem wiihed it to be fettled without ad
journing. (Loud applause from the tribunes.)
We are judges, and not hangmen, exclaims
Kerfaint, give us time to examine. (Hi Acs.)
The President put the vote of adjournment.'
Loud cries from the inhabitants of the Moun
tain, the cut-throats oi the Convention who sur
rounded the chair, reproved and threatened the
President. The gallei ies joined them.
Juhcn reproached the President for having
held a conversation with MaHherbes, and he
propol'ed that he (hould quit the chair. The
President was enabled after some difficulty to
explain and juftify himlelf. He offered to give
up the chair to Barrere.
In ike midifc of this confufion, a deputy ex
claimed, we wish the definition of the tyrant
of the countiy, hut at the fame time we are not
willing jo be surprised. Another exclaimed,
that it had been moved in the Parliament of
England, whether an ambassador ihould be sent
U> influence ihtsectnfolrations of ihc Convention.
The Convention, fays Ducos, ought no iftore
to attend to the ravings of Buikr* than to the
manifeftoa of the Duke of ttiunfwick.
At lrngtft Couthon prop"fed a decree, which
was adopted almost unanimously, c< That the
idifcuflion (Vtould remain open,and that all other
bufinels being laid a fide, the Convention should
entirely apply thcinfelves to thr affairs of Louis
Capet, till (entente {hould be finally parted on
him."
were proposed, and frefti tu
mults enfucd. Pction wished to speak, but he
was intenupted by cries. The liberty of {peak
ing was however granted hici by a <Jcccee.—
"We will n<M have Petio,., opIB j„ ,
edßoutnot. Th* Bindiiu from thi
lW ° h^ d J Cd m< ' mbe » "" '!« let.
P«fed them, and ,h« , 10 , b.came P ,, r „|. •
P.eWent obtained a,M dcLd Pnia
Thi. deputy, ,fte r eomplain.n. that „
utterly imputable f OI h,„ '„, ! 01c " [h '
bune without fubjramg h, m ™?„ the mod
7 ' infilled tliat the decre*
* »>
■hr""' ,d
The unhappy Louis hi,f CWWn
with rot the
Redding ,e„, a, he fpokr. H.mfctfS
Counsel weir heard very
COMMUM or
Lotii. came down from the 1 a™!"* S .
pad 9; he exprrfTVd some unelKncf,
Raid to the manner u, which his c..u„f r | .
be conveyed to the Conv< „ii„„. Hethei,
ed to the coach, and observed v. " ~Z
tiort the detachment of cavaliy of the i"
school that had been /ormed since hi. £
ment. When he was tc the carnage, he to
a part ,n the convention, v h,ch h d t u °„
upon literature, and particularlv on
attthors. One of his attendant, f.id, he did ,
ike Seneca, a, h„ excetave love of rich,, f
rafted too much with hi. pretended philoW
anil that he could not be pardoned for hav,
dared to oalhate the crimes of Nero in the £
This reflect.on did not appear to affect him
Speaking of L.vyLouis said, that he took 1
peafure m composing lo„ R wh,ch«
tainly never had been pronounced but in ,
tt, of Tac'tus.' 8 W " V " y diffett " l f '°
h . c w ->' »Ti»fd in the room where I
was to wait till he was introduced, he found h
counsel retired w,th them into a comer, „
conversed with them in private till he wascallt
to appear at the bar, and alter his defence he „
turned into the fame apartment whtre tv,
been r< reived t>n arrival.
He w« very une»fy J bout frit courrffl t
Srze, who wa« in a fate of perfpir«iian_l ou
alked if there was no of pmcurir
him a change of linen, oblerving thai ieh,
fpokcn more than two hoiiri.
On his return in the mayoi'a coick, he w
31 calm and serene at if he had hfeo iqa vn
coitimori situation. A» he pasted before il
place where frrrmerlv Oodrf' the barr»c|ti «/ t l
French goard», he remarked wrttr iftom'fhmti
tht superb taou/e that it qpw titded oa ib
ground,
He said in pleasantry to the secretaire Greflit
jvho had hi» hat on in the carriage, " the la
time you came you had forgot your hat; y c
have been careful to-day."
The procurator of the comtrtnne findinghiir
felf a little indilpofed, the converfatioi tartit
on the hofp'rtals of Paris. Louis wade son
rcfleflions on the cxpencei of thn/e houses, in
on the different plan* which had hern forme
concerning them ; he carried hii
further, and exprefTed a wifli that there waior
in facj) feftion.
The secretaire seemed to be concerned for hi
fellow-citizens who formed the guard
carriage, and who were walking in the mut
and having saluted lome of his acquaintance
Louis Taid to him* <{ Are those citizens of you
?"—" No, thev are fomc of the membn
of the jreneral co ncil of the 10th of Auguf
whom I fee with pleasure."
The mayor holding his fnuff-box in his hanc
we asked him for it, to examine his wife's pit
tiire; weobferved that Che *as much hawifomr
rhan her pitture. Louis defircd to look at i
He took the box, and said that th
mayor was a hapov man to poflcfs fomethinj
better than the picture. He enquired of wha
department was the mavor, and how long h
had been married. On his paflage fomecrie
were heard Fermr.z Us fenetres. Louis said
C'ejl abominable. Chaumet informed hirn that ii
was a measure of fafety the general council hac
taken. " I thought," said Louis, 44 they Cried
vxvela Fayette, which would be folly."
There were some cries of a la Guillotine
which did not at all difcornpofe him.
Louis arrived in his apartment about 3 in tlx
afternoon.
Pari* is at this time as calm a* the prefenl
circuraftances vrlJudifut of. The people ar<
more occupied by the decree relative to tty
family of the Bourbons than with the fate ol
Louis.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, February 11.
Mr. Heifler, of the committee on enroll"
bills, informed the Houle, that the two bill
signed yesterday, have been laid before the Pre
sident of the United States, for hi> approbatiol
and signature.
A memorial was read from Arthur St Clair
praying an adjustment and fettleirentof an at.
count, presented by him to the late Board o!
Treafiiry—Refsred toMeff. Fitzfimons, Thatch
er and Hindmatr.
A memorial from Jolin Rofs was read, pay
ing the settlement of an old account —Rcfcrrec
to Mess. Gerry, Huger and Tucker.
A bill, fixing the time for the next anmii!
meeting of Cqngrefs, was twice read, and 01
edto be engrofied for a third reading.
A till, concerning bail proccfs and colt! 0
fees, in the Jud.cial Courts of the United StaW
was twice read, and committed for Mond J
next—lOO copies to be printed in the interim.
A memorial of Hugh Hughes was read, tm
rcfered to the Secretary of the Treasury.
A message from the Prefidcnt, by Mr. Lot,
informed the House, that two bills one in ft
of Joseph Henderfon, the other m favor _°: 11
mas Wilhart, have received his approbation
f ' S A'petition of Hannah Martin wa. wj
fraying th* renewal ol a 101 l cettifi' a'e
the table.The petition of Mary Johnfion was read,
praying payment of certain certificates laid
en the table.
A petition of Eli Elmer was read, and refer
ed to the Secretary of War.
A petition of John Parker, printer of Phila
dephia, was read, praying that monthly publi
cations may be circulated through the medium •
of the poft-office, on the fame terms as newspa
pers —laid on the table.
A memorial was read from the Abolit'on
Society of the Hate of Rhode liland, praying
the attention of Congress to the memorials on
the fubje& of the slave trade, presented last ses
sion laid on the table.
Several other petitions were read and refered.
A report was read, on the petition of Raw
leigh Downham ; this is favourable to the peti
tioner —laid oh the table.
The committee to whom was referred for
confide ration, a bill received from the Senate,
jfupplementaty to the collection law, reported
sundry amendments, which were read, and re
fered to a committee of the whole for to-mor-
TOW.
A motion being made and seconded, that the
house jhould adjourn for half an hour, the Ayes
and Noes were called for by Mr. Mercer, and
are as follow : ayes.
Ames, Barnwell, S. Bourne, B. Bourn Day
ton, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Giles, Gilman, Goodhue,
Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Heiftir, Hill
houfe, Hnger, Key, Lawrance, I,earned, Lee,
Livermore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Sedgwick,
L Smith, W. Smith, J. Steele, Sterrett, Sturges,
Sylvester, Venable, Wadfworth, White, Willi
amfon, Willis, Greenup, Leonard, Milledge,
Orr, Hindman. 41
Mrjf. noes.
A(he, Baldwin, Clark, Findley, Gordon, Kit
chell, Macon, Madison, Mercer, Moore, Niles,
Page, Parker, Schoonmaker, I. Smith, Sumpter,
Tucker, Ward. 18.
During the adjournment, the members wait
ed on the President of the United States, to feli
citate him on the anniveifary of his Birth Day.
A bill to authorize the grant of land to the
inhabitants of Gallipolis, was read. This bill
provides for conveying to said inhabitants, fifty
thoufand acres, to be surveyed at the expence of
the United States Read twice, and made the
order of the day for to-morrow.
An additional f l . ate men t was received and
read from the Secretary of the Treasury ; this
contains an account of the balances which will
not be required oh the appropriations to the
end of the year 179a —ordered to be printed.
The amendments proposed by the Senate to
the appropriation bill, were taken into conside
ration. Several of the amendments were agreed
to. An amendment which condenses to a Ipe
cifit-fum, the appropriation for the expenses of
the Department, after enumerating the va
rious items, was opposed. It was contended
that every item Ihould be accompanied with the
precise sum required for its particular obje<st—
This amendment was disagreed to, Ayes 30,
Nays 31 as follow :
Ames, Benfon, Boudinot,S. Bourne,B.Bourn,
Dayton, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon,
Gregg, Hillhoufe.Huger, Lawrance, Learned,
Livermore, Niles, Parker, Schdonmaker, Sedg
wick, J. Smith, I. Smith, W. Smith, Thatcher,
Wadfworth, Ward, Willis, Greenup, Milledge,
Leonard. 30. noes.
Afhe, Baldwin, Barnwell, Clark, Findley,
Fitzfimons, Giles, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Key,
Kitchell, Lee,Macon, Madifoti, Mercer, Moore,
Muhlenberg, Murray, Page, J. Steele, Sterrett,
Sumpter, Sylvester, Treadwell, Tucker, Vena
ble, White, Willianifon, Orr, Hindmas. 31.
An amendment to the feilion which autho
rizes the President to make a loan to the amount
of 800000 dollars, was arretted by an objection
to the fe&ion itfelf, which had already pafled
the two houses Without deciding on this
amendment,the House adjourned.
SATURDAY, February 23.
A bill to repeal the several impofi laws of the
United Status, so far as the fame impose a duty
on ufeful beasts imported to improve the breed,
&c was read the third time and palled.
A bill to fix the time of the next annual meet
ing of Congress was read the third time and paff
td. The blank was filled with the firft Mon
dry in November next.
A bill in addition to, and alteration of an ait
to extend the time limited for fettling the ac
counts of the U. States and individual states, was
read the third 111114. The passage of the bill was
warmly opposed. The opposition arose from
the idea, that if the state of Vermont is not con
sidered as a party in the fettlemcnt of the ac
counts between tha United States and the indi
vidual states, as contemplated by the bill, it will
operate to the injury of the other states.
A motion for recommitting the bill was made
and negatived.
On thequeftion,!hall the billpafs—The ayes
and noes were called, and were ayes 39 ; noes
17» us follow :
A r £ s.
MctT. Aflie, Mercer
Ames, Moore,
Baldwin, Muhlenberg,
Benfon, Murray,
Boudmot, Nilei,
Clark, Parkers
Fitzfimons, Schoonmaker,
Giles, Sedgwick,
Goodhue, I. Smith,
Gordon, Steele,
Gregg, Sterret,
Griffin, Sylveller.
Grove, Treadwell,
Hartley,
Key,
Kitchcll,
Uwrvcc,
Learned,
Macon,
Madiibn,
Mtff. Barnwell,
The consideration of the amendments propos
ed by the Senate to the appropriation bill was
refujned by the House.—The amendment to the
feition authorising a loan,in anticipation of the
funds, was further debated. This amendment
goes to vest a discretionary power in the Pru
dent of the United States to pay off tlie debtdus '
to the Bank of the tlnited States, in instalments
not exceeding 50,000 dollars, having refpe& t6
the public exigencies, and the state of the trea
liiry. The discretionary power hereby propos
ed to be inverted, was opposed, as not being pro
perly limited ; —as the provision for paying
off the debt in queflion was irrelative to the pro
per idea of an appropriation bill. And as the Le
gislature ought not to delegate this discretions
It was further opposed, as making an arrange
ment to pay a debt to a public body before it
was due, in preference to individuals
whose demands arc already due.
In opposition to this reasoning, it was said
that theamendment contemplates a provision in
a cafe which has been the fubjeit of complaint
to those who now oppose it—and that is, it vests
a power in the President of the United States to
employ, from time to time, the revenues in the
treasury which may not be especially appropria
ted for other purposes, to pay off its debts—so
that the revenues may not at any time lie useless.
Thatthe public monies fhouldlye dormant &use
less in the treafHry( which it was denied has ever,
been the ca'e) has been a fubjedl of declamation
.—and now that an unexceptionable expedient is ,
proposed to guard against such a contingency, »
a surplus of revenue would present, the opposi
tion is continued from the fame quarter. After
a long debate, the question on concurring with
the Senate was determined by ayes and noes, as
follow:
AYES. Messrs. Ames, Barnwell, Ben
fon, Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Clark,
Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon, Hartley,
Hillhoufe, Huger, Key, Kitchell, Lawrance,
Learned, Livermore, Niles, Sedgwick, J.Smith,
W. Smith, J. Steele, Sterrett, Sturges, Sylves
ter, Thatcher, Wadfworth, Ward, VVilliamfon,
Greenup, Leonard, Hindman. 34.
NOES* MefT. Aflie, Baldwin, Dayton, Find
ley, Fitzfimons, Giles, Gregg, Grove, Lee, Heif
ter, Macon. Madison, Mercer, Moore, Murray,
Page, Parker, I.Smith, Sumpter, Treadwell,
Tucker, Venable, White, Willis, Grr—2s.
A message was received from the Senate by
Mr. Otis, with the bill to provide for the wi
dows and orphans of persons who have been kil
led under the fanflion of flags of truce. Faffed
the Senate with amendments:
Adjourned till Monday morning, I © o'ck>ds»
The amendments of the Senate to the bill to
make provifton for the widows and orphans of
certain persons killed by the Indians while aft
ii\g under the lan&ion of Flags of Truce, were
agreed to by the House.
A nreff ge from the Senate by Mr. Secretary
ptis, informed the Houle, that they have reced
ed from their amendment to the bill 10 regulate
claims to invalrd pensions.
A second mefiage from the Senate informed
the House, that they had receded from their
amendment to the bill making appropriations
tor the fupoort of government tor the year 1793-
In committee of the whole—Mr. Sedgwick in
the chair—On the bill received from the Senate,
entitled, " An ast ftipplementary to the a£t for
the moie effe&ual colle&ion of the duties im
posed by law on goods, wares and merchandize,,
and on the tonnage of fliips or veffeli." The
committee went thro* the difcuflion of the bill,
and made sundry amendments, wfcnch were re
ported to the House, and immediately taken into
consideration. The House agreed to the fame*
and the bill was read the third time,and pa (Ted.
A third message from the Senate informed the
House, that they have pafled the bill to exempt
from duties of import, ufeful beasts imported
for breed, See. with amendments.
A communication was read from the Trurtets
of the finking fund, pursuant to a refol,ution of
the House. This contains a slate of purchases
fmce la ft return, and a copy of the journal of the
Trustees from the beginning.—This being read,
100 copies were ordered to be printed.
A fourth mc-flage was received from the Se
nate, with a bill for altering the places of hold
ing the Circuit Courts of the United States in
the states ot Vermont and Nortb-Carol'.na.
In committe'- of the whole—Mr. Dayton in
the chair—On the bill making provision to de
fray the ex pen fie ot holding a treaty with the
hostile Indian tribes.
The committee made one amendment to
this bill, which was reported to the House,
and with the bill laid on the table.
The bill received from the Senate, refpeft
ing the circu t courts, was read twice and
committed for to-morrow.
The amendments to the bill for exempting
from the duties of impost ulehil beasts im
portfcd for breed,&c. were read and agreed to.
Mr. Giles, of the committee to whom was
referred the lettefof the Secretary of State,
on the fubjeft of a commercial intercourse be
tween the United States and foreign nations
—brought in a report, which is, that it wiH
not be expedient to call on the Secretary of
State for his report at the prefcnt session—
This report was agreed to.
Mr. Goodhue's resolution for extending the
time for receiving fubferiptiors in thedomef
tic debt of ihe United States to the loan of the
United States, was taken inio conlideration
and agreed to.
A committee was then appointed to report
a bill. Adjourned.
Ward,
White,
Williamfon,
Greenup,
Leonard,
Orr,
9 E S.
W. Smith,
Sturges,
Sumpter,
Thatcher,
Tucker,
Venable,
Willis
S. Bourne,
B- Bourn,
Dayton,
Gerry,
Gilman,
Huger,
Lee,
Livermore,
Hindman, 17
MONDAY, Feb. 25.
3 11
THOUGHTS ON THE
STATE OF AMERICAN INDIANS.
(CONTI N U ED.)
T) UT no exertions have been made in thrs
country tor the civilization of the Indians,
in any mealure proportioned to ihe importance
and difficult ot the objed. The history of the
ettleinent of this country is silent upon this
. We have no account of any general and
uniform plan of civilization—of any rational
and extensive system of education for their you'.h
---or anv well formed attempts to bring them to
tfce knowledge and pradiceof agriculture.—The
tceble and solitary exertions which have be n
. T have >e P gf.
rcted chiefly by pious nrHHenai-ies, whoiiave
een employed and (upported by the charities
and contributions of religjous societies abroad,
and whose single purpose was to g»ve thrm a
no w ledge of the do&rines and precepts of the
Chriltiaji religion— an idea which nothing but
an uncommon fhareof piety could indulge wilh
any hope of fuccefs,or pursue with any degree
ot ardor. The minds of favagrs are too
and uninformed for the reception of truths so
spiritual and sublime. Confined to a few ob
jefls, and Void of those artificial wants which
society and luxury create, the circle oftheir ideas
must necefTarily be contracted. Not being ac
cuftonaed to much reflection or abftradimi of
sentiment, they are in a measure incapablc of
speculative knowledge—they have not comprc
hrnfion of mind fufficient for any rhing t+iat lies
beyond the ordinary compass of their thoughts.
Attempts to inftru& them in truths of this
kind, before their minds are enlarged and
ftrcrtgthened by education and mftruftion,
without a combination of favorable circum
stances, could rarely, if ever, succeed. There
*re a few inlianccs, however, in which they have
been persuaded to embrace Christianity ; but
ifrs is principally to be afcnbrd so the incxtin
gwfhable zeal and indefatigable exertions of ihe
ifiifltonarifs. s»'>me feeble atumpts have bcrn
made to inftruft their youth—to bring them to
a frttied relidcnce, and to the enjoyment of fa
cial comforts. These were however the acci
dental avid temporary projects of individuals,
rather than any uniform and determined plan
of government; and as they originated with the
miflionaries, and were conducted by them, so
also they ended with them.
The rarity of such as were furnifhed with ta
lents lor so laborious and important a task—the
difficulty of mainlining a conilant succession of
a£tive and zealous men to pursue these mea
futes —and the interruptions which necessarily
took place in consequence of these difficulties,
defeated aoy favorable beginuing which had
been made—and the plans which had been
formed with any degree of forefight or proba
bilitj of success, miscarried, by not being Rea
dily and vigorously puifued.
The inadequacy of the schemes, therefore,
which have been devised for the purpose of ci
vilizing the Indians, to the magnitude of the
object, with the languid and unfteadv manner
in which they .have been pursued, juftify us in
afliguing this as one reason why greater progress
has not been made in that bufmrls.
[To be continued.]
Philadelphia, Feb. 27.
Abjliatt oj further European intelligence by the
January Packet.
Two motions made in the British House of
Lords by Lord Lanfdowne—one refpefting an
interceding application to the National Con
vention of France in favor of Louis XVI.—
the other refpefting the French emigrants in
England, proposing that with the consent and
affiftajice of the French nation, those emi
grants should be 'ent to the western parts of
Canada, were debated on the 21 ft December ;
the firft was withdrawn—the last negatived
by a great majot ity.
The French persist in their determination
of opening the Scheldt—the Dutch continue
opposed to the measure, and are putting their
marine on a war establishment. A small
squadron of British Ihips, under Commodore
Murray, has failed from the Downs, for the
Scheldt. It was reported that the French
army had attacked Maeftricht, one of the ci
ties of the Dutch Republic—if so, war with
the United Piovinces appears inevitable.
Commmiicationsfroin Gen.Bournonville to
the National Convention, announce the fur
ther progrefsof the armies of the Republic
he has taken Mertzig, Defendenburgh, Saar
bruck.—Ruremonde, the capital of Austri
an Gueldres, is taken by General Miranda—
Gen. Cuftine, who is besieged ill Mayence by
the Prufiian and Austrian armies, has sent a
complaint to tbe Minister ofWar, stating tnat
his army is destitute of money, forage and
camp equipage. The decree for banilhing all
persons of the name of Bourbon, belonging to
the Royal Family, is fuf'pended till after judg
ment has been parted on the King.—M. Le
Brun, the Freneh Minister of War, on the
19th December, read a report in the Conven
tion, stating the proceedings of the executive
relative to the hostile preparations carrying
on by the British government. The pretexts
for which, the report fays, are—
I ft. The opening of the Scheldt.
adly. The decree of the National Con ven
tion of the 19th November, which refpefts
fraternizing other nations that wish to ailume
a free government.
3dlyT The supposed ho (Hie deftgni of the
French against Holland.
further dates, that the French
Minister in London had been directed to de
mand a _new conference with Lord Grennville
on tfie bufinefj—and concludes with this re
mark, " In fliort, we will leave it to the En
gift nation to judge between ua, and the ifliie
of this contest may lead to conlequences which
tie MiniJUr did not expert."
It was decree*! by tbe Convention t tat the
mioiftir of the m*wi>« 2>ould prepar« all the
means of defence 6en. JJumourW was t.i
Paris the 30th December.—M. Geiicft, late
French Miniiter at the Hagw, is appointed
Minister of the French Republic to the Unit
ed States of America. A letter to be borne
to the United States by the new Minister,
was read and approved. A c)au:e in this let
ter fays, " *I"Iie United States of America
will hardly credit it; the lupport which the
ancient French Court had a&rdec them to
recover their independence, was only the fruit
ef base speculation ; their glory oi&misd its
Ambitious view*, and the Ambuliadors borv
the criminal orders of {topping the career ot"
their prosperity."
No. II
The French naval force in'the Mediterra
nean amounts tu 19 fail of the line and many
largeifrigates. The question of the final ad
judication of Louis XVI. after a very tu
multuous debate has been 1 eferred to the
primary assemblies in the 84 departments.
Some /if the commons of Brittany, a province
of France have (according, to the-Englifti pa
pers) declared for a monarchical form of go
vernment. The Britilh tfoop of war Chil
ders, sent out to reconnoitre the port of iireft,
was fired on by three forts in that harbor—
one fliot ft ruck her but did not do much inju
ry. Some of the feAions of Paris have re
solved to declare themielves in a State of in
furre<sHon if Louis is not put to death—Not
withftandwg- this that capital continues quiet
—the friends of j 11ft ice and humanity are i'uf
ficiently numerous to overthrow the abettors
of anarchy. Joel Barlow, an American, is
ele&ed a member of the Convention, for the
department of Mount Blanc. The King <J
Naples if said to have acknowledged the
French republic—and that Spain has dope
the fame. The Prussians in an attack on Cat
iell were repulsed.
Warlike preparations are carried on at Vi
enna with the utinoft vigor. The press for
retruits is without example r lathers of fa
milies, and qvei) veterans who have been ho
norably difiharged from the fcrvice, a:e not
spared.
It is fa"id that the Austrian army, when »f
---femMed, wiil'ainount to 174,000 men, form
ing 119 battalions of infantry, and 146 squa
drons of cavalry, commanded by 60 Generals.
Friday last the President of the United
States entered into his 62d year. The anni
versary of the day which gave birth to the
man who has twice united the fuffrages of
three millions of people, was duly noticed by
the patriotic citizens of Philadelphia.—The
Artillery, under the command of Capt. Fisher,
and three Light Infantry companies, paraded
at an early hour at the State-houfe—from
whence they marched to the Artillery Ground.
Capt. Fiflier's company fired a federal salute
of 15* guns, and the Light Infantry a fiu-de joie{
they afterwards marched down High-street,
fainting the President as they palled his hou r e,
who politely returned the salute in person.—
All the (hipping in the harbor had their colors
hoisted, and the bells in Christ-Church rung
peals every half hour through the day. At
noon the Members of Congress, the Officers
of the United States and of this Common
wealth, Civil and Military-—with a large body
of the Clergy of every denomination, and other
citizens, waited on the President.at his house,
to felicitate him on the occasion.—Several
felett companies celebrated the day; and in
the evening a grand Ball and Supper were
given at Oellers' Hotel, by the City Dancing
Alfembly.
ffeai- York, Stt*r4tj, Fei. tg.
Last evening the 6ift armiverlary of the
birth of the of the United State*,
was celebrated by the Tammany Society, at
their Great Wigwam in Broad-street; or
which occasion the Wigwajm wfcj illuminated,
and the Society passed the evening in rational
debate and convivial.sons*. A collation was
served, and, among others, the following pa
triotic toasts were drank:
l. Giokgs Washington—May the remain
der of his days be as happy as the former part
of hit life has been illustrious — Three Cheers.
2. May the canfe of Liberty never want
Washington to alien its rights.
The Hon. William Smith is re-elected
a Representative in Congress for the diftrift
of Charleston, in the state of South-Carolina.
The resolution for cboofuig a federal Sena
tor, has pafled tbro' bath Houses, and was
signed by the Governor last SaturcMy. The
time for electing the Senator is to-morrow,
in the Senate Chamber of the State-fjoufe.
Monday Mr. Swanwitk, from the commit
tee thereon appointed, brought in the bill en
titled, " An ast to incorporate the fubferiberj
to the Bank of the Commonwealth of Penn
sylvania," which was read the firft time, and
made the order of the day for Tuesday next.
ARRIVED*/ the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Cadiz
Weft-Ind irs
Port-au- Prince
Amlterdam
St. Martin*
• do.
Baltimore
Ship Baring,
Brig Mary Ann,
Nymph,
Betsey,
Nancy,
Polly,
Union,
Genrgia Packet, Burrows, Charlefion
Snow Su key, Rogers, line*
Scb'i. Dolphin, Watson, N. York
Sally, Sbepard, 40.
Mary,
Sloop
Aon,
Akby,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cecil, iB/>
a par Cenia, ,0/3
Diltrreal,
}uii shares Bank U. S. i|- pcrccnt.pnfe
in the Infuraoce Ccmpeoy Jf
SHtP NEWS.
Cooper,
Ranvjgr,
Webb,
While,
Harris,
Bair,
Sewrll, Virginia
Tijoirpfoo, St. Eu&atius
Story, Pori^au-Princ*
Aibrt, EoflpatHoufai.d two hundred ninety-two, dollars
and seventy c«M«, which were fubjeft to
be applied to any objed, agreeably to
the discretion of the commander in chief
of the expedition, and might have been
applied ; if he thought proper, to the
payment of the difeharged levies, and
would have been fuf&cieiit for two months
pay to the ofLcers, aud four months pay
to the privates. This sum is admitted by
the to have been
in his hands, at the time of the discharge
of tl*e levies, and would have been ap
plied to their pay, if orders had been
given by the commandei in chief of the
expedition, for that purpose. Bui that
no fiich 01 deis ever were received by him.
The Secretary at War inieis» from theie
circumllanccs, that no censure lliould be
imputed to the war department, tor not
having paid implicit attention'to this sub-
j ei^-
The circumstances tefpectiiigthis tranl
a&ion have been attentively examined oy
the committee, and appear to them to be
the following : The quaiter-maller gene
ral, upon his leaving Philadelphia, was
fiiinifhtd with the of twenty thou
laod dollars, for the use of that depart
ment. He was afterwards furnilhcd with
two other sums, to wit : the sum of seven
teen thousand eight bundled and forty
four dollars and tifty cents, on the twenty
third day of July, and the sum of two
thousand, two hundred and twenty-four
dollars and sixty cents, on the seventh
day of July, making together, the ium
of twenty thousand and sixty-nine dollars
and ten cents. It appears by letter from
the Secretary at War, to the commander
in chief of the expedition, that live thou
iand dollars of this sum were to be applied
to the pay of the tegular troops, it the
commander in chief Ihould deem that a
proper application of the money, which,
however was not done. The remaining
part of this money was intended tu term
a kind of military chest, to anfwet con
tingent cxpences ; subject however to the
controul of the commander in chief. It
appears that the quatter-mafter general,
in addition toihufe supplies ofcafh, was
authorized to draw bills on the Secretary
at War, with this reftrittion that the
commander in chief (hi uld approve of all
draughts, and certify the neceffi'.y or pro
priety of making them. The quarter
mailer general commenced his draughts
at Fort Pitt, previouily to his arrival at
head quarters, to the amount of two thou
sand liy. hundred dollars, and continued
them after his artival ; but it does not
appear that thofc draughts were certified,
01 Unftiontd by the commander in chief:
all which draughts were honored by the
Secretary at War.
It is suggested by the commander in
chief, that he pever coi.hdered the money,
hefore-mentroned,appropriated to the pay
of the levies, upon their difbhargts, nor,
that it was ever intended to be applied to
that objedl- He further fuggelts a want
of knowledge of the money, laid to be on
hand, at the time of the dilcharges of the
levies, although he admits, that the quar
ter-maller-general, (hortly after his arrival
at head quarters, tendered him a statement
of the calh on hand, whith he returned,
without examination, observing, that he
had already received fufficient informati
on relatively thereto, from the Secretary
at War ; that he was informed of the a-
monies originally received by
the quarter-master-general, and conceived
that he could form some idea of the ba
lance on hand, from the sums disbursed in
confequencw of warrants drawn by him,
which, he expected, were paid from that
fund—that has want of information, as
to the real balance, arose from the cir
cumstance of the bills drawn by the quar
termailer general, without his knowledge,
or the requisite certificate Irorn him,
which bills operated, as a relief to that
fund, for their amount.—The commander
in chief of the expedition further suggest
ed, to the committee, in presence of the
quarter - mailer - general, that, upon
making draughts upon the fund before
alluded to, he usually enquired of the
quarter-master-general, whether it was
fufficient for the jiurpofe of answering
the draught, and upon repeating this en
quiry, just before the discharge of the
levies, he received for answer, •' that
the chest was very low." This statement
was acquiesced in, orat.leaft, not denied
by the quaiCsrrinafter-gentrah
The quaster-msfttr-generalhas furniflr
cd the committee with a statement of his
account, by which it appears, that he
Lad on hand, or. the fifth day of Novem
ber, one thousand fcven hundred *nd nine
ty one, ca(h, to the amount of fifteen
thousand nine hundred and twelve dollars,
and forty-two cents, and two thirds of a
cent, which, he fuggells, have been since
applied to the use of his department.—
This balance is denied to have been on
hand, by the commander in chief, at that
time : and he has furnilhed a llatement of
dilburfements from the original fund }
which leaves the amount of the balance,
at the time of the discharge of the levies
of one thousand four hundred eighty tiiree
dollars eighty-fix cepts, exclusive of five
thousand dollais. appropriated to the
j of the old troopn.
The commander in chief further sug
gests, that there was no paymaster to the
army, liorany person authorised to lettk
the accounts of the soldiers and afcertaiu
the real balances due to them> until the
arriyal of Mr. Swann, on the thiid day
of January, on thousand seven hundred
I and ninety two ; >and insets, that he had
no authority to dire£t a fettlcment and or
der pay to the foliiiers, until he was in
fo. med of the arrangements made at the j
war'office, relatively to that object. This
fuggellion is llrongly confirmed by a let
ter from the fecittary at war, addrefled
to the commander in chief, and forward
ed by Mr. Swann, which designates Mr.
Swann as paymaltei, and contains instruc
tions relatively to the terms of fettling the
accounts of the soldiery. The fame let
ter feiv'ei td (hew, that the twenty thou
sand and fixity nine dollars, and.ten cents,
put into the pofeffion of the quai ter maiter
general, were not conclusively dettined
for the pay of the levies, nor so consider
ed by the secretary at war. Ikcaufe it
is affertcd in the lettef, that Mr. Swann
is furnilhed with a sum of money fumcient
for the whole pay of the levies, without
makiii"" any deduction in confequenee of
the monies futmfhed the quarter mailer
general.
It is alferted by the Secretary at War,
in his communication to the committee,
that the time of the feivice of the levies
did not expire until after the arrival of Mr.
Swann at Fort Walhington, particularly
Gaither's and Rhea's battalions, the term
in their inlillments having been, to serve
fix months aftertheir arrival at Fort Walh
ington ; which was deemed at the place
of rendezvous. The time which had e
lapsed from tile period of inlillmeuts to
their arrival at Foit Walhington, or the
evident impropriety of annexing such a
condition to the enlistments, caused the
condition itfelf to be dispensed with, and
those levieswere adually difenarged (hort
iy after the twelfth of November, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one,
in consequence of having served fix
months, which is the extent of the service
authorized by law, and actually received
certificates at that time, of having per
formed fix months service.
Upon a re-examination of the residue
of the original report, and the evidence
now before the committee, they are fa
tisfied with the fame, and find no mate
rial alterations 0.1 correttions necefiary.
A regard for candor has induced the
• • r
committe to adopt this mode of leport
' ing ; because the original' repoit is there
by preserved, mistakes exilting in the
fame, and which are now corrected, and
the causes of those mistakes rendered ob
vious, and the whole fubjeft presented to
view, upon the fairelt terms, in ttie opin
ion of the committe, to all persons in a
ny degree coucerened therein.
FOR SALE,
By the Subjcribtr, at Walnut-Strut Wharf\
BILL of EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediate ulc, in pipes & quarter casks,
TENERIFFE WINE, in pipes,
SHERRY WINE, in quarter calks,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and. 4 proof,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Baks 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13-4 Inch CABLE, 120 fa'.horns long.
GEORGE MEADE
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1793. epim
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG
Of the very fii ft qua lily ,and late ft importation
trom Canton, via New-Yoik, by retail, at
No. 19,
Third, between Chi-Cuu' an<l Market Strerts,
N. B. A few Boxei of the alone HYSON jgr file.
TICKETS
In thi FEDERAL CITT LOTTERY,
May be,bad at SAMUfcL COOi'tß's ferry.
312
By the Comrri'iffioneri appointed to prepare
,hc Public Building*, &c- with.o the City
of lor tbe reception of Congrtis
and for ineu permanent rcftdeoce after the year
1800—
A LOTTERY
TOR THE improvement of the .
Federal City.
50,000 Tukciwt 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars,
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
1 Supcib Hotel, with baths,)
out houfcs, &c,&c.iocutt J
1 Calh Prize
i ditto
1 ditto
1 diuo
2 ditto
Ip ditto
20 dftto
c>o ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
t,ooo ditto
15,000 diuo
16,737 Pri»e»
33,263 Blanks
AO jOOO
Tiic .iole design of this Lotrery being to facili
tate other improvements together with the Public
Kuildin j s—it is the particulai d< (ire of the Com
m (Tinners that thefc may be effeOed with as
few deductions from the Prizes as poflible— how
fat their endeavors may be anfweredl, the Scheme
of the Lottery will derr.onftrate. 'I he keys of
the Hotel, when compieat, will be delivered to
the fbrtunate possessor of the ticket drawn a
againft its number.
All the other prizes will be paid, without
deduction, in one month after thi di awing, by
the City Treafurcr at Walhington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced.
The drawing on Monday the
9th of Ssptembei next, at the City of Wdftiing
ton.
Tickets mav be had of Col. V/m. Dickens, Citv
Treiifurrr of Washington 4 of Meftrs. James Weji
& Co. Baltimore ; ot Mr. Peter Gifman, Boston ;
and at such other places as will be herealtci
pubiifhed.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given (or tnebtft, Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with Hot and,
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, ifpr efentcd
on or bejore the 10th of April next; arid a pre
ference will be givtn 10 the A'riift for a Con
tra#, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erected, will
be a comer lot of about 90 "by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, &ct. Sections and
•clliuiates of the expense will be expe&ed
with the elevations* &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars-mutt be re garded by the Archiufit as the
uunoil limit in the exprnte intended tor this
pur pole. S. BLODGtT,
Agent for the atfausof the Qity.
January ig<
War Department,
Ja nuary 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
rhe sums to which they are entitled for fix
months of their annual pcnfioiv, from ihe 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the 5111 day of March 1793, will be paid ou
the said day by the Commillioners of the Loans
withifi the states refpc&ively, under the usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment must be ac
companied by the following vonehrrs :
ill. The certificate given by the ftaie, fpecify
ing that the person poflefling t)ia lame is tn ta6i
an Invalid, and afcertaioing the sum to which,
as such, he is annually iniitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
fpxm :
A. B. came beforCiTne, one of the Juflices
county of in the (late of and
made o»ih that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his poflcflion was giv
en, of which the following is a Copy (the cer
tificaic given by the state to be recited) That
he fervtd (regiment, corps or veflel) at the
time he was disabled, ana that he now resides
in the ami county of and has rt fidcd
there for the ialt years, previous to which
he resided in
In cast- an Invalid fliould apply for payment
by an attorney, the said attorney, beiides the
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a fpicial letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
I, A. B. of county of state of
do hereby conilitute and appoint C. D. of
uly lavktu! attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension for fix months, as an Invalid
of the United States, from the 4th day of Sep
tember <792, and ending the 4th day of March
1 793-
Signed and Sealed
in the Prefcfice of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminillrators
mud be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpe&ive offices, and ajfo of the time the
i Invalid died, whufe pension they may claim*
By Command of the President
of the United States,
(£3T The Piinters in the refpeflive States are re
queued to publijk the above in their Newjpapers Jor
the fpacc q) 2 months.
PLA N S
OF THE
City of Waftiington,
Sold by'the EooKSEtLERs,
20BSQN, CAREY, \OUNC, c JS CRUXSHJtfZ
50,000
«5»0£0
20,000
15,000
10,000
10,000
id, 000
10,000
5, cOO arc
i,ooo
s°°
»00
10,000
10,000
5°
2 5
20
10
10,000
20,0®0
1 50,000
Dollars 350,000
H. KNOX, Secietary at War.
City of Wafliiagton.
AJakua** 7ih,
NUMBER ,f Lou ... ,h» City w.lii? of .
fcrrd tor fait at au&ioa, bythtCaaiauU
iioueri, en the 1 jib day of Srpttaibcr ntxl —
One touith pari of the putchife laoacy it labe
paid down, the rcGducat three equal aawial pa'y
rai-iiu widi yearly lulcrtllon ibe »bolc PfUKj
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. OA NTT, Qcku tUU*,,.
Extract of au ACt of the General AfTcmhlv of
M.nytaud, concerning the Territory of Cu-
Jumoia, and the Cuy <>t W ifhin»ir> n
•• Ht- It enacted, fkal any jurctirtr way h
J;eJ or will, hereafter to le made. taXe fnt he!i ljr,is
wu'nr, that pJt ej the \aid Tonttr, <*l.ukl, c>
i" tkii SUtf, 1„ tVefivi muKi'ir us ij In u.„j , on.
ten ft tr.rs istatc ; u.id the jme lands m <n te con.
vtycii l\ him, ami irar.fmitkd to and be inherited 4»
his heirs vr relations. us ij he and thei were citiie*i
of tills State : Piovidfd, That no foreigner
T" virtue hereof, be entitled to any further or oth'r
*
J .in. 19.
70 be SOLD, OR LEASED
FOR SEVEN OR TEN YEARS,
Till FOLLOWING
HOUSES.
ONE on Walnut-street, ne»r fourtlw&rert
•23 feet Ironi, has two parlours below, the
fiont one 21 \ by feet, the back parlour u
18 by 14 feet. The front room up (Un* is 26A
by 174 feet. There are five good chambers in
this house, Wefides the garret is divided into
three rooms, 111 two of them there are firc'-
placrs.
The other House is 27 feet upon Walnut
ftreet, and 52 feet upon 4th street; there ar« tw6
good parlours below, one of ihem 25 by 20 i-«
feet, the other 25 by 18 x-gfeet, and seven com
plete txed-chambcis; bekdes the g*rret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms hffvefirc*
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largest house has also a
hoiiCc-keeper':, room. It is intended ibere lhall
be a Communication from both of theie houses
to a neighbouring ice-house, fufficiently to
(up ply 3 houses. Within 50 yards of these
houses, there will be compleat Habits and coaefi
houf«'B, for both houles ; they will be fimlhed
in rhe mott compleat manner, ana the kevs
ready to be delivered CarTy in the furhmer.
On paying half the money down (iff fold) the
oil) r half may be paid bv inttalmcnu, 01 thfc
whole may remain for 5 years, paying iutcreft
and giving security on the premises.
For terms.of sale or lease, apply to the Sub*
fcriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has fur SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-fv e pounds
sixteen (hillings and fix-pence, per annum.
Also, aquaniity of BAGS, that will contain two
and a half a*vd three'and a hall bu&els.
Philadelphia, Jav. 19, 1792. epim
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
February lft, 1793
WHEREAS foreigners holding block, ia
the Bank of the United States may pre
fer receiving .their Dividends in Euiope,to re
ceiving them in America,
RESOLVED, That any proprietor of the
Capital Stock of the Bank of the United Statei
icfiding in Europe, (hall be entitled to receive
either in London or in Amiterdam, the half
yearly dividends which may be dcclarcd there
on—in London at the rate of one pound sterling
for every four hundred and Joriy-five cent*, or
in Arnfterdam at the rate of one guilder current
money for every torty cents and tour mill*— the
dividend declared in January of each year, 10
be paid in London or in Amsterdam on ibe f«y
cond Monday of July follow ing—and the divi
dend declared in July of each year, to be paid in
London or in Amiterdam on the iecoud JVlou
| day of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to the declaring of any Dividend, so to bt
paid in London or in Amilcrdym) fhail gitesii
thentic notice to the Prcfident and Directors of
the Bank at which of the said Cities he will re
ceive the said Dividend.
By the President and Oirrftors.
JOHN KEAN, Caper.
50 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 25th intipnt, a likely Ntv
gro Man called Isaac, about twenty-three
yearsoid, five feet (ix or eight inches high, a
well made tellow, tond of talking, has a laije
mouth, and (hows his teeth very much when
talking ; had on when he went away, -a brown
linen (liirt, a short while kersey over jacket witfi -
a very high collar and plavo breast, with buttons
which appear to have been very gay ; a pair 01
white kersey breeches, a pair of white knit yarn
(lockings, a pair of (hoes with firings in them,
and a coarse hat ; all the above clothes are al~
most new. Said Negro was fprmetly the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas, late of Kent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, dc
ceafcd, and has for foyeral years been employed
in thai neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by MefTrs. John and Janvea
Car mack, as * waggoner, which bulinefs he 1*
well acquain;cd with, and is what be prelcrs*
and ha* been engaged in drivings waggou rora
faid'Crofs-Roads to Duck-Crcek, Sic. unm
August ?aft. 1 expea he will make his way tor
the neighbourhoods of George-Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will be paid if delivered to me in thi*
place, or Thirty Dollars if secured m any goat,
so that I get htm agaip. He is an aitful fe ow.
and when taken, will make his escape, ualt*
particularly ftcurcd. n -
Easton, OWEN KENNARD.
Talbot County-, Maryland, Dec. 28, IJ9-'
Pr The price,of thu Gazette is Three Mar*
per Annum-*- One luff Ui be paid at ikfi l im * 9 fJ u
fcjmng.
tf