c
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHKD WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JC/iN FtNHO, No. 34, NOPTH FIfTH-STkEt/, PH 1 l.n DtL f-H) a
[No. 75 of Vol. IV.]
' Tot the C4ZETTF. nf the ''SITED STATES,
ON BANKRUPT LAWS.
txlraßof a lettttfrom Virginia,
« errors and inconveniencies arising
1 from the bankrupt laws in England,
are many, and obvious; nay, they have arilen
to such a lieighth, that Lord Chancellor Thur
lou', at the fittings at Lincoln's Inn, two years
ago, observed, " that fnch were the frauds
aiid perjuries that were daily pra&iled, by
men who availed theradves of these laws, for
the mod nefarious purposes, that, unless they
could be amended, (the bankrupt laws) it
were better that none were in force."—The
following ir. mostly extracted from Mr. Bur
gess, 11 on the. law of insolvency," a book,
which fliall be forwarded for the perusal of the
Virginia delegation—Mr. Izar,D and Mr.
Smith,, of South-Carolina, and Mr. Mercer,
of Maryland, (hould these gentlemen not pos
sess it—before I read this author, I was an
advocate {or a bankrupt system ; becscfe I
was 1 si i.Md to the furtherance of jufHce^t^
commerce ; but, the author, who is a mem
ber of Parliament, a barrister, was undeivfe
cretary of Hate, and also a commiflioner of
bankruptcy, soon taught me, that in this sys
tem none of these advantages were to be
found : he took from me my delufidn, and
Ihewed me clearly from his reasoning, that
a ly art of this fort in America, unless framed
upon wiser principles than any in Englifnd,
would induce more injurious than beneficial
conferences. " It is a common error (lays
the author) of legislators to frame laws upon
the impulse of the moment. When this hap
pens, original principles are disregarded, and
confluences are not confidered —ought we
then to be surprized that inconveniencies en
fne u They have an appearance of re
formation, and a reality of corruption.''
u They are inadequate for the purpose in
tended— ee the four capital statutes — T
KHz, c. 7. — ifl: of {a. I. c. 15- —^2l it ot Ja. I.
c. 19. —sth Qeo. 11. c. 30.
I. A fuijiijarv and unconftltutional mode
of p r oceed : 1: * mbft be introduced —Oommiiii-
onerj nuft he appointed, v/mo act arbitrarily,
amU«*cittfn Their power?,
to be lar;-,e ev >ugh to answer the end of their
creation, innjr be enormous : they, were not
so under the firft aft—t! c next was niade to
fuppiv its deficiency—They were to examine
bankrupts ort their oaths, and make them thus,
in many mltance , criminate themfelvc-%con
trary to the law of the land, lor tiiey were
bound to answer interrogatories on oath—
here the pH'dofpW mult b? reprobated by all
men, who frn\,*c proper ideas of constitutional
and civil rights—hut here power was not
bounded, they had a r the law to exa
mine the wives'bankrupts, to break open
their houses, and other at c ts of arbitrary pow
er, yet all did not avail; they were unabte to
bring the bankrupt to"a:i account, aid fatHy
the demands of his creators —So iiijich for
thele atXs on general grounds. Much is to
be reprehendedi.i other parts.
u The coauniiHoners proceed nrft exparte
and fbcretly, upon the oath of any creditor
who is refolvcd to take out a cor/unison of
bankruptcy ; there is in t us .not onlyiecrecy,
but tfto much hajie. The bankrupt is not cca-
Frohted wit!i his acculer, and is'thercifo're de;
prived, wherf hi s credit is about to be ft?
ofalledging' any thing in vindication ot ir,
and of dtiprovin* the farl's, which may oe
falfe, that his enemy has produced again#
him—Thus the character of the juofc eHa
bliflif'd merchant may befjHfred by, and is in
the power of the mo<i abandoned v/retch T whb
incurs neither t >c ; hazard of c;Cte»stion, no
the risque of juuitliment.-— u Creditors chuf
ing their own afTignees"'—This i? a Jource
Ijrand ; the main oi viilainy— fne
thing in this bufihefs to be done, 'is to f'abr?-
eate a fra\idulen: bankruptcy, which is easily
effjrtfed—(j >ods to a large amount are pio
cured upon crrtlir, fuppole the lum of 52 do!.
Books are all the appearance of
larity-r-largc baliaces to be due to the
amount, together with bills of cxcliange ac
cepted, and pvomiflorv notes of hand, Xcc. See.
of more than 15,60^!. —one ot the apparent
largelt creditors, who is, upon the eftabiifii
ment of the bankruptcy, to be one of the al
fignees, call« at the houie of the merchant or
trader, who takes care to be tit hove and deny
d -d thus commits an art oi bankrupt
cy, which warrants this pcrfou w'lo called as
a c» editor, to rake out a com million —Others
who are to ! »e benefitted, are in confederacy
with th s artive person, and are. as <vi'd apf ear
by very regular books indeed, in the number
of the large't creditors of the bankrupt ;
which gives them also, as well as the person
who took, out the commiflion, a right to be
silH^reCj—then enfue> the division of the et
fjfts among the creditor^—five (hilling* i»*
the pound U paid : the jtift creditor in this
divfton got o«N 12yDl. while the larger one%
not in reqjitv but in appearwc, got 37.5 01
the s^ocl.—.Thus the bankrupt and his nflo
cutes in vi'lai&y, by his bteakivgy make the
Saturday, February 9. 1795.
fuin of 750T. —rtls is a common prrfticc ;
and all the multiplied laws of England, and
the invention of their mod ingenious jurif
prndifts, have never been able to supply ade
quate remedies, in prevention of tbefe notori
ous frauds.—No sooner is one lopt off, than
another and another grows -• the hydra-head
of villainy is too pullulating to be crushed by
the vigilance, the dexterity, or the arm of
legislative power or wisdom.
44 *The advocates for the system here* may
observe, 14 these are evils of the English sys
tem, and we know them—we consider them as
beacon* to warn us against running on the like
rocks of error : hence we will take care to
guard our Jaws again ft such enormous defers
—we will free it from the arbitrary princi
ples that deform their code—we will make it
suitable to those of our own constitution, and
never compel a man to answer interrogato
ries on oath, by which he may criminate him
felf—the exorbitant power of the commifl:on
ers Ihall be curtailed, and yet they fliall be
all-efficient to answer the end of their crea
tion : the fraudulent confederacy of aflignees
lhall "be prevented, and all the evils of the
iiijjppMr ■ to
ate \ and at the lame time will give our laws
all the force neceflary for tfieir complete exe
cution J for the counfera&on of fraud, the
promotion ofjufrice, and the preservation of
the rights of the citizen. Hae fnihi erant ar
te s.*'
u If this can be efFjrted by the wisdom of
the legislature, there can b® no objertion to.
such a law. It fttikes me, as a matter of
great difficulty, " to reconcile with the effi
ciency and the energy of the law, the right
of the citizen/' Better in my opinion that
none exilted, unless you can etempt it from
the egregious vices of the Englifli code.—Yru
will find it, as Mr. Burgess observes, 11 An
institution, though framed for the prqtertion
of virtue, the mini fie r of iniquity, and the de
ftruclion of credit and commerce."
FROM THA GENERAL ADVERTISER.
SONNET.
o'er she lirn'i.ms birds of feeble
Thr low'ring"Eagle bearsTns fligrit-firilrme,
On forceful pinions near the radiant spring
Of ehdltfs dav, within the solar clime ;
As o'er the humble hills that smile below,
From their broad base the Alps majtlUc rife,
Lilting iheir viewless heads into the ikies,
R< irardlbfs of the fto» ms that round them blow,
Thou, Wash! ngton ! appear'tl above that tribe,
Who point their t'cvom'd arrows **- « hy heart;
Thv heart, funcrior to the potent hribe,
Of (latctv's filvrr tongue, or eloquence's art,
Secure in virtue's armour (hall remain,
Uuwouhdcct by me a.?totes of the lurking train.
Feb. jj b, 1793.
For the GAZETTE of the UN IT F,D STATES.
At a Meeting of the Faih ©kef* lately,
Mrs. AMIABLE in the Chair.
«REsOLVEn, »<rw. co*.
THAT the opinion's ffflm Bofloo, re
lative to.our Titlts, are dangerous in th£
extreme.
" That the fpsrif of freemen : s bni
poor I v employed whrn it dirr&s its »efearr.hes
to' fuGh frivolity as the nfe of irtft 1 rutin £
trims of addreis, incnfilb nt wiih iflfluetity
and pnwr,r of vvotnen —as ('tefs, for Mifi or Ma
(fii'in, or Irooif \6otndn.— That we declare ottffejves
ju-Jtlv ?i armed at the orn<»refs of the ! hvfilm<r
pnrtcrpie—Tha: thij. difpofitioh, when ltdirecfs
itlelf toward? u.% is de< oratory to a lie honours
which the refix ments and morjlsof an
rned have juttiy given us—iThtt we find in
"the hilfory of women, in proportion as foc:cty
refined, the fuperioriiy of our sex, to be urmer
faliy acknowbd^ed —in all mat crs tonchino our
proper female dominion. That terms of the
molt refined rcfpe£\, when applied to the Fa-r,
being entirely voluntary, are amor>£ our dcareft
privileges, astbey are amongtbe best piptediofts
that a moral politencf*fris to fiUai d thole
who are To fee bit as the fexfrom occasional rude
ness • and so far are tlvcfe from weakening the
fpitil of a manly freedom, that we inrai'iably
find those men mod disposed to ufc ihem who
a»e 'be motl valiant.
Rtjglvtd thereat*t, Tbai we will not yield our
privilege of being; called and artdiefTeH by those
terms of wbicl a refined and unfoiced
fc'ici of opinions and fmtinieots have bestoWed
upon »<. *' ,
Acfofveff* That tt-'ia not unmanly in « bfraVe
man io adejrefs a.b» uaiihil and amiable woman
hy the wqrd Mijlfrfi.
Refvfacd, Thai ncverthdefs it (hall be tolerat
ed, 1 hac timid men, and irnrfer, wrakly and
pnny gentlemen, uwvexereilc the privilege of
calling us Citejjts* or Citcff.
Rtjuhtiy as such gentlemen and beaux
appinximat'e our sex in man} ihiogs. they may
have ihe privilege of infu'.ting us with impu
nity.
S'gntd 00 behalf of the Meet ing,
JULIET EASY.
289-
LA"& : OF THE UNION.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennfylvatva, on Monday
the fifth of November, onethoufand
(even hundred and ninetv-two.
BE it enaOtd by the Senate and Iloufe ol Re
prcftnlativcs of the United States of Ame
rica in Gongrefs alfcmbled, That lawful intc
reft, fvom the fixieenih dav ot Mav. in the vcar
one thoufj.nd (even hundred and f«:v» oiy-ftx,
shall be aMowcd on the sum of two hundrra
dollars, ordered to be paid to Return Jonathan
Mcii;s, and the reprefentaiive of Chrilto
pher Grren?, deceaf d ,l>va n loK'eof the United
States in Congress alfembied, of the twrnty
eighih dav of September, in the year one thou
fjnd seven hundred and eiohtv-five.
JON A fH AX TRUMBULL, Speaker
oj the Houfeof Retrefrvtu fives.
JOHN ADAMS, 'Vice-Pre si dentof the
United States, and Prtfi&tnl of the Senate.
APPROVED. JANUARY 14, 170,^.
C-AO, VVJVSHIX'CTOV.
, ■ *nt of the t'iiffrd Stales.
FtfM THE GENERAL ADVERTISER.
BACHS,
Iff EL the lively fafisfartion in behold-
cause of liberty in France so popular
lit the Limited States, wpt with (land ing the mali
cious inclullrv employed by those from whom
we a»«■ obliged to receive our hiOorv of the re
vohitiop, to delame its leading events and prin
cipal authors.
But vhilc I rcjoice so much to fee the cause
in gen<ral so well received. I cannot but be dis
gusted at the disposition which some of us dis
cover |o ape every particular ci-rcumftance that
attendk.it.
Thi» remark was excited by the use which I
fee made oj the teirn Citizen, in imitation of a
custom introduced into France fmce the last re-
volutin.
Th : s appellation was oroper to be introduced
& cbunjenam ed inthat country,in o-der to make
the people feel more flrorigly the difference be
tween their present elevated rank of citizens, i>nd
their former dteiaded fitU3tion of fubjf&s. It
P »••;.»! for the oeople of France, after haV
ing so much from the mifencs of ine
quality and artificial diftin£tioq ot rank, to seize
with ardor cverv thing held out to them which
pointed out to them the happv change of
fuuation, and the present superiority of their
characters.
In this country, how-wer, we have not felt or
known the inconvenience of a diftinftion of
rar.k or superiority of rights in artv privileged
part of the community : we have no change of
fnuation to mark by a change of political terms ;
we have do antient oppreflion* to render Odi
ous, and 110 deliverance from them to celebrate ;
it is therefore unseasonable and ridiculous to
transfer thi« term from a country where its use
Was fa well judifVed, to one where rio cirenm
ffance<; reqnre it or render it applicable, and to
relinquish trrms which ule has fanftioned and
renHerni J'atTi liar.
RYN'O.
O S T E N D, Nov. 6.
FLANDERS is attacked In several differ
ent: pi'ice*. By accounts received laffc
m<*bt from Dunkirk, they call Dumourier's
aVmy 13,3, ©03 fining against Tournay and
Mobs. Last Saturday 40D rational guards
fVoni Diinki. k the village of lloof
bnis, tour leagues i'vorn Ipfes. It was brave
ly defended by, they fay, on'V thirty troops of
Louden vert, deeply entrenched. The Freach
were re gulfed, but next day they were joined
bv2Dpruore, with seven pieces of cannon.
The Anftrians received a reinforcement of
oniv 21 men. T)C French again attacked,
and w?re a Tecdnd tihie reputed wit'nthe loss
of 153 killed and wounded. On the fame
ni< r bt, 25") cavalry went from Dunkirk to
support the attack, and the Aufrrians were
also reinforced froiti Poppring and Tpres V/e
b&ve heard the cannon every day at this
place—"t continued the greateH: part of yef
terdav, atid at this moment a brisk cannonade
is (till kept up.
L O N D O N, TJrfvimber fB.
It" the French offer to attack Hol
land, after ovemmrting the Anftrinn Nether
lands, it is probable, that a considerable num
ber of Britilh troops will be lent to the al
fiitance of the United States, t> opjwfe the
pro 'refs of the F encb arms; which may e
ventiia'.lv engage this country in a war with
slut poiver.
have been jnft (Bttt to \VnolwlA to
complete the two battalions of artillery tow
in England with the utmost pofiibie expedi
tion ; and recruiting parties are to be im
mediately dispatched to every part of Great-
Britain for that purpose.
It was rcpoi ted in Paris on Saturday that
the Emperor and the Duke were dead. Since
then "VI. Briflbt has repeated the (lory in his
paper, .
The Duke of Bronfwick U is said is thank
ed l»r hi-, services by the King ol PruiTta, but
infonned at the fame time tliat they a:e no
Jonger w anted-
SICONO
[Whole No. 59/;.]
S A A. H N A H, 'v ■" vrv JO.
"WE are nfffhblKzed to ii.Tnnn Hie pirbfre,
that fames Scagrove, Esq. Agent of Indian.
Artairs for the Southern Depar tment of* Hie
United StAtes, held a conference,.in Novem
ber toft, at Colerain, on the River St. Mary,
with a large body of Creek Indians, at which
were present Kings and Chiefs from tucKty-one
of the principal towns in the Upper a:id Low
er Creeks.
The Indians remained with the Agent three?
weeks, during which time every thing was
conducted with great decorum Many mat
ters of importance to this country were then
arranged, and all business between the Uni
ted States and the Creeks put in an agreeable
train.
It was agreed, at this meeting, that all pri
soners in the Creek land, belonging to the
United States, shall be immediately brought
to the Agent, Indians Commiflioners being
appointed for that purpose. The boundary
line from St. Mary'* to the Alatamaha is now
running by Mr. Ellicott, the Surveyor of the
United States, agreeable to treaty. The
fine on the north-weft frontier of this State
will be completed next spring. A finp to be
'pTrt sifrtr pxnpf!'. t«.
by the Indians, from the frontiers. The
Chiefs who were present did, in behalf of
themselves and the whole of the Creek Nation,
give the most unequivocal airuraucc that tr.ev
would continue in peace and friendfhip with
the United States ; that they would not join
any Nation or Tribe of Indians who are or
may be at war with the United States; thar,
/hould any of their young diforderiy men be so
imprudent as to join any Tribes at war, the
Nation would disown them, ar.d they nnul
share the fate of the hofcle Tribe.
Upon the whole of the bufineflu the Indians
exprelfed a" ardent desire of living in close
friendftiip with this country.
After fettling all matters the Agent c.ave
them a plentiful supply of provisions and clo
thing, also diftribtited among them a quantity
of farming utensils and mechanic tools, which,
together with 5000 bufnels of corn, had been
fentby the Prefideut of the United States
from Philadelphia, for relieving the wants of
those people. The crops of cbrn in tie Na
tion have fallen very :fhort the last fealon, a
great many of them will draw supplies from
the public fioi*c» at iiti Mary's this
winter and the eniuing spring.
The inhabitants of" Georgia may refi alTur
ed that the Creek Indians are 'well dfpofeU
towards them, and v. ill not diftuib or injure
them or their propejTy. It is therefore to be
hoped that, when r.ny Indians appear on cur
frontier hunting, of on their bufn.eft, that oiir
fjttlers will treat r Fjem with civility.
The reports whi'chf have been pnblifhcd of a
large body ot'Crc£: ks'having joined tie Che.
rokees and o.tj.c l\olti!e Tribe?, are nor juts
Not more than J J ) of the Creeks have fhe\y>i
any difpolition tj join thein, and those wen
a diforderjy set 0 f young people on the irori
tier of the Up per Town-, who have heei
wrought upon t>y some designing had whit
people; but ill that bus.ness will be
end to verv f.) » the « 1
having: oMi" ' - -
Som wt 'H a '
here tc . ,~ara from the Teat of go
vernment, refpecHfls; cot tain partsof tie poft
-office Jajv—antfrwjl no other quarter,except
in ail instance or two, an echo from some one
of the fouthem fta'tes. In this part of tlie Uni
on, its good effects are very confpicnous—for
waving the cortfideration of hewfyapers com
ijig to hand with much more regularity tl an
formerly, already arc the efablilhnients of the
poft-ofEce extended as far as Whit-ftown, to
the weft ; and from thence letters, row'pa
pers, S;c. are conveyed, by regular stated pri
vate poits, through all Geneiee iett!e
ments, to Ni gara, the capital of Upper Ca
nada—To the nort'n'ward, the poft-nff.ee is
established at Burlington,oil Lake-Champlain,
in the state of Vermont, where it communi
cates with the fftabliftied p< ft-olfircs at Mon
treal, Quebec, aud other parts of the province
of Lower-Canada. Thus, through the medi
um of the poft-office, on its preient eftablifli
ment, not or.ly letters and pa<ka|'e«, hilt
newspapers, are tranfinitted with fafety arid
expedition to almost every quarter of this ex
tci'ifive continent- —Will then the post office
law be complained of, because a few printers
at the feat of government cannot fend tle.r
papers through the continent free •/ rxptvje t
I, this a reafo-.iable request, when the citi
zens of e\ ery other part of America, pay to
private polls a greater sum for postage than
is demanded by the poft-oifice law ?
DUMFRIES, (Vir.) Jan. 31.
Therein report (which we sincerely hope
may piove true) that ihc CongieU of the L'liittd
'State» have voted the sum of 40,000 dollars tw
the Marquis La Fayetti, for h'l prtlcnl pur
polcs, and that iliey ha«r empownrd' a person
to wait on the Kint; of Piuflia, and deiri; od of
him ilwl b.ivr am) injured man, a»aa American
Olficcr. Nat true \ct'■
O to 4^CONGRESS.
The following was read in the House of
Rxp*es£Ntativis on Moday last.
Trcafury-Dtpattment, Feb. 4, 1793*
SIR,
I HAVE loft no time in preparing, as
far as has been pra&icable, confident
ly with the courfc of facts, the several
statements required by the resolutions of
the House of Representatives of the 23d
of lad month ; and I have concluded to
add to them such further statements as ap
peared to me necessary to convey fully the.
information which is ur.derftood to be the
cbjeft of those resolutions. It was my firft
intention to submit these Statements col
lectively, with such explanatory remarks
as the occasion might demand ; but find
ing on experiment, from the extent and
variety of the mater involved in the reso
lutions, that more time will be riquifite for
a full development of it than I had anti
cipated, considerations of weight in my
mind have determined me to present the
different parts of the fubjeft successively.
Among other advantages incident to this
course of proceeding, will be that of hav
ing it in my power to give a more accu
rate and mature view of the entire fubje£t,
without too great a dereliction of the cur
rent business of the Department. In exe
cuting the task I propose to myfelf, I
rely on the indulgence of the House
to a latitude of observation, correfpopd
ing with the peculiar circumstances of
the cafe.
The resolutions to wliich I am to an
swer, were not moved without a pretty
copious display of the reasons on which
they were founded. These reasons are be
fore the public, through the channel of
the prefe. They are of a nature to excite
attention—to beget alarm—to inspire
doubts. Deductions of a very extraordi
nary completion may, without forcing
the sense, be drawn from them.
I feel it incumbent upon me to meet
t'ae suggestions, which have been thrown
out, with decision and explicitnefs. And
while I hope, 1 lhall let fall nothing in
consistent with the cordial and unqualified
refpeft which I feel for the House of Re
prefcntatives,—while I acquiesce in the
fufficiency of the motives that induced on
their part the giving a prompt and free
course to the invcftigation proposed—l
cannot but lefolve to treat the fubje& with
a freedom which is due to truth and to
the consciousness of a pure zeal for the
public interest.
I begin with the last of the four resolu
tions ; because it is th»t which seeks in
formation relative to the most delicate and
important of the suggestions that have
been hazarded.
Here however I have to regret the ut
ter impoflibility of a drift compliance
with the terms of the resolution. The
pra&icability of such a compliance would
suppose nothing less than that lince the
feu of December 1792, all the ac
counts of all the CdHe&ors of the Customs
and other officers of the Revenue through
out the whole extent of the United States
could be digested, made up, and forward
ed to the Titafury,—->ould be examined
thete, fettled and carried into the public
books under their proper heads. In a
word, that all the accounts df the reve
nues, receipts and expenditures of this ex
tensive country, could have passed through
a complete exhibition, examination and
adjustment, within the fliort period of
twenty-three days.
It was made (as I presume from the re-*
fult) fatisfa&orily to appear to a Com
mittee of the Konfe of Representatives,
who were charged during the lad fefiion
with framing a direction to the Treasury
for bringing foi ward an annual account of
Receipts and Expenditures, that the
course of public bufmefs would not admit
of the rendering offuch an account in less
than nine months after the expiration of
each year ; in conformity to which idea
their report was formed and an order of
the Hotifc eftablithed.
I need do nothing more, to evince the
impra&icability of an exact compliance
with the resolution in question, than to
observe, that it is even more comprehen
sive (though with less detail) than the or
der of the House "to which I have allud
ed.
To evince nevertheless my readiness to
do all in my power towatds fulfilling the
views of the House, and throwing light
upon the tranfaftjons of the department,
I (hall now offer to their infpe&ion sun
dry statements marked A, AB, B, C, D,
E» F, which contains as far as is at this
time poflible, the information defir«d, —
and with fufficient accuracy to afford fa
tisfa&ion on the points of enquiry involv
ed in the Resolution.
The Statement A, shews in ahftradi
the whole of the Receipts into, and Ex
penditurs from the Treasury, commencing
with the firft of January and ending with
the lad of December 1792, —correspond-
ing with the accounts of the Treasurer.
These accounts have been regjplarty Fet
tled lip to the end of September, and co
pies have been laid before the two Houses
of Congress. The account of the quarter
terminating with the year, has not yet
palled through the forms of settlement—
but is fonder examination, and will, no
doubt, be fettled as it Hands, —the man
ner of conducting the business and the
usual care and accuracy of the officer con
cerned leaving very little room to appre
hend miftatement or error. A copy of it
is herewith transmitted in the schedule
marked C. g§
This Statement takes up the balance of
the General Account of Receipts and Ex
penditures, to the end of the year -179 1 »
as repotted to the House of Representa
tives, within the firft week ofthe present
fefiion, and continuing it down to the end
of 1792, Ihevvs a balance then tn the
Treasury of 783,444 dollars and 5 1 cents.
The Statement B is a .more compre
hensive document. It is k Ac
count of Income and Expenditure. It
(hews not merely the actual Reciptc of
money into the Treasury, but the whole
amount of the National Revenues from
the commencement of the present g#vern
ment to the conclusion of the yea* 1791,
as well out/landing as colle&ed, —the pro
ceeds of domestic loans, —the whole a
mount of the sums which have been drawn
into the United States on account of the
proceeds of the foreign loans, *and
all other monies, from whatever source,
which have accrued, within the period
embraced by the statement.
These items form the debit iide of the
account amounting to 1 dol-
lars and 33 cents.
Thecreditfide conlilts of two items.First,
the whole amount of the actual expendi
tures to the end of the year 1791, as dat
ed in the General Account of Receipts
and Expenditures before referred to. Se
cond, the whole amount of the actual ex
penditures during the year 179®, as fpe
cified generally in the ftatemeat A, and
particularly in the several quarterly ac
counts of the Treasurer, amounting to
14,765, iaß dollars and 83 cents.
The balance of the Account of Incotne
and Expenditure is consequently 5,114-
696 dotlars and 50 cents ; which corre
sponds with the Excess of the Public In
come (including the proceeds ofloans fo
reign and domestic) beyond the a&ual
Expenditure, or more properly speaking,
Di/iurfement to the end of the year 179»»
This of coutfe is exclusive of thafe parts
of the proceedis of foreign loani y/hich
have been left in Europe to be ,applied
there ; the amount, application and ba
lance are exhihited, as far as they are yet
known at tbe Statement
No. 1, of my late report on foreign loans.
. This Balance, as noted in the State
ment B, is composed of the following par
ticulars :
I. Calh in the Treafury,per Dollars,
{latement A. 785444 .51
11. Calh in the Bank of the Uni
ted States, and the Offices of Dis
count and Deposit of New York,
and Baltimore, not yet passed to
the account of the Treasurer, per
statement A, B.
111. Proceeds of Amsterdam bills
remaining in depolit in the Bank ,
of North America, including the
fumof 156,595 dollars and 56, cts.
advanced by the Bank without in-1 '
tereft, which is credited in the ge
neral account of receipts and ex
penditures, ftatemefit A,
IV. Proceeds of Amsterdam bills
fold, but not yet received 61 45 93 02
V. Ca(h in hands of colleitors of
customs, per ab(lra£t D, 151851 25
VI. Bonds unpaid at the end of
the year 1792, on account of the
duties on imports, and falling due
between that time and May 1794,
per abftraa E, 2442069 15
VII. Uncolle&ed residue of du- '
ties on spirits distilled within the
United States, per abftra<st F,
This aggregate fomewliat exceeds the
balance of the account ; but in cafe wbere
estimates mull necessarily supply the defi
290
cieney of ascertained results, differences
ef this nature are of course. It is at the
fame time fatisfattory to observe, that the
efti mates which have been heretofore com
municated are proved by the official docu
ments already received, to have been el
fentially correct.
It will no doubt readily occur to the
House that a very small part of the excess,
which has been stated, is a real futplus of
income. There remain to be fatislied ob
fe&s of Expenditure charged, upon the
fund by the appropriations which have
been made, that cannot fail ultimately to
exhautt it probably within four or five
hundred thousand dollars ; which will be
embraced in the appropriations for the
service of the year 1793. A further ex
planation on this point is reserved for fu
ture communication.
A due comprehension of the statements
now presented, mud obviate every idea of
a balance unaccounted for ; in whatever
sense the allegation may have been intend
ed to be made.
If there was before any obfeurity on
the fubjedt, it was cettainly not the fault
of this Department. Till the last reflati
ons, no call has been made upon it, which
rendered it proper to exhibit a general
view of the public monies and funds, —or
to (hew the amount and situation of such
as were unapplied. Particular calls for par
ticular objects were made which as I con
ceive were complied with ; but they were
not comprehensive enough to embrace a
difclofuit of that nature.
It could not theiefore with propriety
have been alledged that there was a ba
lance unaccounted for. To infer it fron.
documents, which contained only a part
of the necessary information, was not juf
tifiable, nor could it otherwise happen,
than that conclusions wholly erroneous
would be the consequences of taking such
imperfect data for guides.
It may be of use by way of elucidation,
to point out some of the tnoft palpable
features of the errors which has been en
tertained.
The following Items are dated as the
balls of the supposed deficiency :
Residue of the proceeds of the Fo
r eign bills supposed to be unapplied
[after deducing the sums furnifhed
for St. Domingo, and the amount of
the debt to Foreign officers]
Surplus of Sinking Fund, meaning,
that part of the surplus of the revenue
to the end of the year 1790, which
had not been applied in purchases
Surplus of the revenue of the year
1791, as reported
Dollars 4345575
Dedu<3 in Bank, meaning, I pre
sume, the balance of the trcalurer's
cash account,
It appears in the fit ft place to have been
overlooked! that in Statement No. 3, of
my late report concerning foreign loans,
mention is made, that on the 3d of Janu
ary there remained to be received of the
proceeds of the foreign bills 633,131 dol
lars and two cents; consequently that
sum could not be confldeted a« in the
Treasury, and ought to be deduced
from the supposed deficiency.
Among the official papers which it i»
intimated were consulted, was an original
account, rendered by the Bank of the
United States, of the falesof Amsterdam
Bills, (hewing a sum of 605,883 dollars
and'B cents, as having been received by
the Bank and two of its Offices of Dis
count and Depolit, for the proceeds of
Ihofe Bills. Had that document beer, un
derstood, it would have been known, that
this sum was in Bank over and above the
Balance of the Treasurer's Cash Account;
and this also would have served to ac
count for a large part of the supposed de
ficiency ; namely 605,883 dollars and 8
cents. The course of this tranfa&ion will
be hereafter explained.
605883 o8
But among the misconceptions which
have obtained, what telatesto the surplus
of Revenue for the year 1792, is not the
least striking. Thelcmis inform (andcon
fequently no information on that point
from this Department could have been
necelTary) that credits are allowed upon
the duties on Imports, of four, fix, nine,
twelve months, and in some cases of two
years. Reason dictate«, that a surplus in
such cafe, mull be considered as poltpon
ed in the Collection or Receipt, till all the
appropriations upon the fund have been
firft fatisfied. The account of Receipts
and Expenditures for the year 1791, in
pofleflion of the House, shews that at that
time, no less a sum than 1,828,289 dol
17799 s 80
341057 19
Dollars j 110897 00
Balaacc unaccounted for
lars and *8 cents of the anticeduft
were outtlanding in Bonds. How th cn
could it have happened, that the f urp l U!
of 1792, was fought for in the 1 , ea f Ury
at the very infant of the expiration of t&
year ? I forbear to attempt to rrace ih«
fourceof a mistake To extraordinary.
Let me however add, that of the Sut.
plus in queftioh, 172,584 dollars and 8:
cents, ate not payable till April and May
1794, as will be seen by the A hit raft £.
Thus have I not only furntfhed a jult
and affirmatiVtf"*iew of the realisation
of the PublTc Account, but have liltewifc
shewn, 1 trust in a conspicuous 'manner,
fallacies enough in the Statement, front
which the inference ot an unaccounted for
balance is drawn, to evince that it is one
tilTue of error. In this, I might have gont
still further, there being scarcely a ftepoi
the whole process, which is not liable to
the imputation of mifapprehenfton. Bat
I wi(h not unnecessarily to weary the pa.
tience of the House,
Another circumstance to which im.
portance has been given, and which »ai
noticed in connection with the suggestion
last difcqfled, is a disagreement between
a Memorandum in the Treafufer's Bank
Book and the Statement reported by me,
of the amount of Bills drawn at the Trea.
fury upon the Foreign Fund. Such a dis
agreement no doubt exists, and to the ex
tent of 5,760,138 florins or guilders—
But the following circumstances con
tain the solution of tjjis di&mistiDg ap
pearance.
There will he found in the Statement
A, two several credits; each for
2,000,000 dollars, as for monies received
into the Treasury, with correfpondino
Debits of equal sums as for monies paid
out of the Treasury.
But neithei the one t)or the other did
in reality take place. The whole is a
mere operation, to accomplish the purpo-
Fes of the Xlth feftion of the ast to incor
porate the fubferibers to the Bank of the
United States } without an inconvenient
and unneceflary displacement of< funds.
That Section authorizes a subscription
to the stock of the Bank, on account of
the Government, not exceeding in a
mount two millions of dollars, and pro
vides for the payment of it out of the mo
nies which (hould be borrowed by virtue
of either of the acts of the 4th and nth
of August 1790, the firft making provisi
on for the public Debt, the la ft for reduc.
1668190
400000
ing it ; enjoining at the fame time, that a
Loan should be made of the Bank to an
equal amount, to replace the monies
which were to be applied to the payment
of the fubfeription.
It is evident, that nothing could have
been more useless (at the fame time that
it would have been attended with obvious
disadvantages to the government) than
actually to draw from Europe, out of th«
monies borrowed there, the sum necessary
for the payment of the Subscription to
the Batik, and again to remit out of the
Loan which was to be obtained of the
Bank a fufficient sum to replace those mo
nies or such part of them as may have
been dellined for the foreign dbjeft. Loss
upon exchange in consequence of over
(locking of the market with Bills.—Loss
in i«vtercft by the <Jelayfr incident to (!«:<*
peration ; and which would necessarily
have suspended the ufeful employment ot
the fund for a considerable time. These
are some of the disadvantages to the Go
vernment. To the Bank alone could any
benefit have acctued ; which would have
been in proportion to the delay in re 't° r '
ing or applying the fund to its primitive
destination. Such an operation therefore
could only have been juftified by an io
difpofition on the part of the Bank to fa
cilitate the principal object, without the
intervention of actual payment.
But no such disposition existed. On
this, as on every other occlfion, a temper
liberal towards the Government has cha
rafterifed the condudt of the Directors o
that institution.
It was accordingly proposed by rn f i
and agreed to by them, that the objev to
be accomplished should be carried ,ntc
effect by a merely formal arrangement.
In this however it was neoefiary to cos'
fult the injunctions of law, and the P rin "
ciples of the constitution of the Trea ur J
Department. ,
These points then were to be eiiettea
a payment of the Subscription money, ,c
veil the Government with the property
of the Stock,—possession of the means ol
paying it, which were to be derived row
the foreign fund, and ofcourfe were
to be in the Tieafury before payment
»7738*
79064*
15J4933Cbitld .be made,—the replacing what
fhouid be taken from that fund, by a loan
of the Bank.
The following plan for these purposes
was devised and executed, by previous
conceit— •
The Treasurer drew bills upon the
Commifiioners in Amsterdam forthe sums
Tequifite to complete the payment on ac
count of the subscription : These bills
were purchased by the Bank, and war
rants in favour of the Treasurer upon the
Bank served to place ii\e proceeds in the
Treasury. Warrants afterwards iffijed
upon the Treasurer, in favour, of the Bank
for the amount of the subscription money
which was receipted for on the part of the
Bailk, as paid. Other warrants then is
sued in favour of the Treasurer upon the
Bank, for equal sums, as upon account of
a Loan to the Government; which war
rants were fatisfied by a re-delivery to the
Treasurer of the bills that had been drawn
Upon the Commifiioners- In the last place,
wai rants were drawn upon the Treasurer,
to replace the monies supposed by the ar
rangement to be drawn from the foreign
fund, which perfedted the opeiation. But
from the detail, whicr« has been given, it
will be seen that in faß no monies were ei
ther withdrawn from or returned to that
fund. The bills were cancelled, annexed
to the Warrants, and are lodged in the
Treasury as vouchers of the tranfaftiop.
These bills were for two separate sums
each 3.4.7 TiQQQ Guilders, equal to a mil
lion of Dollars ; the payment having
been divided into two parts, upon certain
equitable considerations, relative to the
dividend cf the firft half year.
This tranfa&ion explains 4,950,000
Guilders, of thefum which forms the dis
agreement between the memoiandum in
the Tieafurets Bank Book and the State
ment reported by me.
The residue is thus explained. The
sum of 1,237,500 Guilders, dire&ed to
i>e drawn for, on the 30th of November,
was direiled to be coinprifed in one or
more bills, as the Bank (hould desire. It
was at fit It placed in one bill; but this
bill was.afterwards returned, with a re
quell tha it might be converted into smal
ler sums. The Bill returned was cancel
led ; and in lieu of it, there had been fur
nifhed prior to the tirll of Jauuaty of the
present years 934..5&oGuildcis, —the bal
ance hc.> - fat
pifhed. The sum of 934,500 Guilders
consequently ajjpeiued twice in the Me
morandum.
These two sums of 4,590,000 and
934,500 Guilders, exceed the difference
inqueftionby 124,362 Guilders.
The Trcafurer informs me, that .there
are two bills not included in the memo
randum ; one for 113,750 and the other
for 612 Guilders ; which make up the n
bove-mentioned excess. The former of
these two bills was furnifhed to the Secre
tary of State foi the purpose contemplat
ed by the 3d feftion of the Ast of the
]»ft session, entitled, " An Ast making
certain appropiiations therein fpecified."
Is it not truly matter of regret, that so
formal an explanation on such a point,
Should have been made requisite ? Could
no personal enquiry of either of the offi
cers concerned, have fuperfsded the neoef
lity of publicly calling the attention of
the House of Representatives to an ap
pearance, in tiuth, so little fignifiennt ?
Was it seriously fuppofeable that there
conld be any real difficulty in explaining
that appearance, when the very disclosure
of it proceeded from a voluntary ast of
the Head of this Department ?
With peifeft refpeft,
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your moll obedient,
And molt humble Servant,
'ALEX. HAMILTON.
The Hon. the Speaker of the House
of Repiefentatives-
HOUSE OF Rf-PRFSENTATJVES.
WEDNESDAY, February 6.
The petition of John Rogers was read, and
leftrred to a fele& committee consisting of Mef
iieurs Page, Livermore and Clark.
A memorial of the officers of the Rhode-Island
line of the late army, was read and laid on the
table.
The petition of Lewis Anderfon was read and
referred to the Secretary of War.
The following bills were read the third time,
and pa fTcd :—
A hill to authorize the Comptroller of the
Treasury to fettle the account of Thomas Wilh
art, late a Lieutenant in the army of the United
States
bill to authorize the adjustment of a claim
•f Joseph Henderfon against the United Stares.
A bill to reooal part of a resolution of Coti
frefis of the 29th Aug. 1788, refpe&ing the ia
abicants of Poft-Vincennes. 'And
A bill to reimburse H. E. Lutterlah, for ex
pences incurred in coming to America to join
the late army of the United States-
Mr. Greenup'-s refutation for placing on the
pension lift all such officers and privates of the
militia as are or may be wounded in the service
and who are not provided for by law, —was ta
ken up in committee of the whole—Mr. Dayton
in the chair. The resolution was read by the
Chairman.
Mr. Greenup supported this resolution.by ob
serving, that as the militia was now called into
service by th« General Government, it was tea*
fonable to make provision for such as may be
wounded or disabled—-Except this was done, he
conceived that the United States would find it ,
extremely difficult to procure an effe&ive militia
force on any occasion : indeed, it was to be im
puted to this cause that the militia had hitherto
discovered so great a backwardness in turning
out; and that those who had been in service were
so indifferent, being principally substitutes He
added some remarks on the justice and good po
licy of making the provision—Nor did he con
ceive that the encreafe of the pension lift was a
Sufficient reason to prevent making that provi- j
fion, when it is considered how important a sub- ,
je& is a competent defence to our frontiers.
Several gentlemen objeAed to the resolution
as involving a very great and encreafing expence.
The enereafe of the pension lift, it was laid,
ought not to be thought lightly of in a republi
can government. It was said that in the militia
law the obje& of the resolution was in a great
measure provided for; it does not indeed look
back; but provision for particular persons may
be made without going to an unlimited retrof
pe&ive view of the cafe. The resolution was
modified to refer to such officers, non-commif- .
stoned officers and privates of the militia as have
been wounded or difebled since the day
of y or who hereafter fete
wounded or disabled in the the! United
States.
The debate was continued to a cdnfjdersble
length, in which the difference between the
litia and the regular troops was ftated—Tha
latter, it was said, abandon every other pursuit
and business when they engage in the service;
and in cases of wounds and disabilities incurred
| in the public Service j are left absolutely without
J any other resource than the provision made for
; them by the public as pensioners. With refpeil
to the militia, they are commonly persons of
property, who leave their refpe&ivc occupations
for a time, and >*hen the service is performed,
they have their farms and their various occupa
tions to return to. It was said that it would be
unspeakably better to pay the militia at an en
hanced rate, such a rate as may be Sufficient tp
induce them to turn out. That extending the
system of pensions in the manner contemplated,
would render the business complex, extensive and
enormously expensive—while at the fame time,
it would fubjedt the public to innumerable im
positions.
A motion was.made that the committee should,
rife, and that the resolution fhonld be referred to
the committee which reported the bill providing
half pay to the widows and orphans of the offi
cers of the regular troops. After further debale,
this motion was put and negatived.
The qucftion on agreeing to the resolution,
as modified, was then put and agreed to.
Mr. Barnwell moved an additional resolution,
which was agreed to; the purport of which was,
to regulate the mode of ascertaining the nature
and degree of the disabilities, and the annual
allowance to be granted for the fame. , ,
The committee then rose and reported-the
two resolutions to the House. The House a
d opted the refutations—and referred td a iele&
comrrittee, with inftru<ftions to report a bill.
Mr. Sedgwick, of the committee appointed,
reported a bill providing compensation for thp
President and Vice-President the U.
Read twice, and committed for to-morrow. 1
Mr. Moore, of the cotnmittee on enrolled
bills, reported as truly enrolled, the hill to re-'
gulate for ign coins, and for other jxirpofes/j
and the foreign intercourse bill. —The Speaker
A report rr; t ar y of War ori the pe
tition ot Sim /..Thayer, -was taken up in com
mittee of the w hob—Mr. Murray in the dhai/i
The report heirig read, j "»
Mr. Bourn id that the committee fhoula
come to the so * rclrl ; tior>, viz. That Si*
meon Thayei > . Taj or in the army of the
United States, whowao i m the battle of
Monmouth, be placed on ti.. nfion lift of the
United Stares; and that he be a.- wed the half
pay of a " ajor from ift Jan. 1781, provided he
returns his commutation of half pay with the
interest thereupon.
This rcfolution was agreed toby the commit
tee ; reported to the House and adopted, and a
committee appointed to bring in a bill. Com
mittee*—MelT. B. Bourn, Gilman, and I. Smith.
The report of a fele& commit*© on the peti
tion of lijah Boftwick, was taken into corfide
ration, and agreed to. The fame committee was
dire<sted to bring in a bill.
On motion, the bill for compensating John
Tucker was committed to a committee of the
whole. It was accordingly taken up, and a pro
viso added to the bill, That the (aid John Tuc
ker account for the monies he has received for
the fervict-s afore aid. The bill was then order
ed to be engrcffed—which being done,
On the question, (hall this bill pass ? it was
determined in the negative.
Adjourned.
PHILADELPHIA.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 perCer.ts, 19/
£ per Cents,
Deferred, ll j( l0
Full /hares Bank U. S.. 16 per ccni.pieir
291
N E W-Y ORK, Feb. 6.
Yesterday arrived in this port the Ship Anrt'
£< Suran, Capt. Duplex, in S3 days from Cork.
Captain Duplex informs us, though he has
brought no late papers, that he saw in a paper
a Ihort time before he failed, an account of
the Trial of the French King artd Queen, and
that they were acquitted, and are at large 1
That the Engliih were fitting out a larg c
FLEET against France, in consequence of
the attack of the French on some place which
the English were obliged to guaranty.
Extrafl oja litter jrem a gentleman in Dublin, to
hi'i friend in this city, dated \JI December laji t
received by the Ann & Sujan.
" The surprizing events now palling on
the continent of Europe, are attended to with
a,>xiety and aftoniftnnent, on all fides; to
what lengths their confequcnces rtiay <#xtend,
it is impossible to determine s that Holland
will be involved, seems almost certain ) and
that England can no longer remain neuter,
is generally dreaded.—Stocks there are ac
cordingly tumbling, much fafter than at the
commencement of the late war, or almost any
former war. It may be well on your fide, to
look forward to the effects of such an event
on the mercantile system."
Capt. Warner, of the brig Silas and Sally,
arrived at this port yesterday, in 22 days from
Cape-Francois, informs, that when he left
that place, the negroes still continued in a
tronbiefome ftlte ; that on the 14th ultimo,
which was the day of the Silas and Sally's de
parture, a body of the troops and citizens had
marched out to attack them, the -result of
which had not transpired.
Philadelphia, Feb. 9.
'£V(m« ; Mad»id Gazettes to Da. 14tk.
HEADS of INTELLIGENCE'
Duke D'Alcrcdia, firft Secretary of State,
in place of the Count D'Aranda, who remains
head of the Council.
Duke of Brurifwick retired,and Lieut. Gen.
Kalkftein succeeds to the command of the
Prussian army.
General Montefquiou, to avoid an arrest,
retired to Geneva, and being demanded by the
French Resident, fled across the lake. Kel
lerman, who succeeded him, was preparing to
march to Rome.
In the battle of Halle and Andeerbeech,
near Bruflels, Nov. I J, the French were com
pletely fuccefsful. The Auftrians retired to
wards Louvainc. The loss on each fide about
830.
The Duke ofSaxe Tefchen desired of Gen.
Dkimourier a suspension of arms, and to go
into winter quarter^—which was refilled.*
General Valence took pofleffion of Namur
without opposition, Nov. 21. La Maliera
entered Antwerp without resistance, Nov. 18,
and La Bourdonnaye would arrive there on
the 19th with the main army. The citadel
„ however had not yet surrendered.
Prince Kaunitz, and Field-Marftial Lacy,
ill.—lt is understood in Vienna (Nov. 5) that
the King of Pruflia has manifefted to the Em
peror his dcp.re for a conclusion of the war,
and that the Emperor inclines to a composi
tion with France. But if the war continues,
their armies will ast independently of each
other. Facts seem to indicate war, but this
would be the cafe even if peace was intended.
Lord Aukland, Britilh AmbafTador at the
Hague, has declared, officially, by orders of
his Court, that his matter will scrupulously
adhere to his stipulations in the treaty of 1788,
and recommends a firm suppression of every
attempt to disturb the interior tranquility of
the Provinces.
The Imperialists loft jooo men killed in the
battle of Mons.
PARts, Dec. 1. The Ministry of France
order Gen. Dumourier to pursue the enemy's
army into whatever country gives them asy
lum, and to destroy them before they are re
inforced, or in a stale to renew their attack
oq France.
Dumourier approaching Liege, and within
j mites of it, oti the 35th of November. Cuf
tins was at MauburgN»v. 19, and had gained
iome small advantage over the Prussians.
frtm Lisbon Parzrs to Dec. 21Jl.
The French are in pofTeflion of Oftend.—
Thev have declared in favor of opening the
Scheld.
Laßom donnaye resigned onamifunderftand
ini; with Dumourier, andLieut. Gen. Miranda
succeeded to his command.
The AmbaiTador of France at Naples has
received orders to retire from that capital.
Gazettes forbidden to be read in Coffee
hnufes and other public places in Lifljon.
Calonne had arrived in Li(bon with an in
tention to make foiue (lay there, but he left
it in three days, on intimation from the Court
*s foppofcd.
\Vednefdav last being the anniversary of
the Alliance of Pranc* with the United States
of America—The Commander in Chief of the
Militia of Pennfvlv.'.nia, Governor Mifflin,
the Officers of the Militia of the City and Li
berties of Philadelphia, together with such of
the general and other Officers of the Militia
who were prel'ent in the city; the Ministers
Ternaut, and Consul-General, De laForeft, of
France, &c. for the purpose of celebrating the
glorious fuccefies of the Frenchßepublicover
the combined forces of Austria and Pruflia,
met, and partook of a splendid entertainment,
provided at the City Tavern, in honor of the
occasion.
At the head of (he table a -pike was fixed
bearng the cap of liberty, with the French
and American flags entwined, furmounied by
a dove and olive branch. After dinner 2o
patriotic were drank.
On Wednesday last, the anuivtWiry of ettr
AttiAKCE-with France, a number of Cm.
Zeus adcmbled at Hyde's, to celebrate the suc
cesses of the French over their enemies. After
dinner ihe following Toasts weie drank :
1, The Day! may it be ever marked by
France and the United States among the moit
happy in their history.
2. The Republic cH France—may it ever flou
.rifh in freedom* and convince the world that
political happiness is only to be found wheie
the laws govern.
3. The Convention of France—may their con
duct be dirc&ed by wisdom and patitoufm, and
the conllitution to be ettablHhed, to ice even
despotism to " believe or tremble."
4. The United States of America—may their
Constitution and laws be the models from which
the nations of the earth (ball be taught the true
combinations of p& feftjrecdom and tntrgtiic
vtrnmcnt.
5. The Congress of the United States—may
wisdom be their pilot, and the Constitution
ther Polar-Star.
6. The President of the United States—may
his virtues and services never be forgotten, and
his enemies only be found among the iocs u»
the happiness of mankind.
7. The Vice-Prcfident of the United States—
may his early and Heady patrioiifm long live io
the memories of his fellow citizens.
8. The Governor and State of Pcnnfylvania-~
may (he long continue to flourifh, and her agri
culture, commerce and manufa&ures, rapidly
encreafe.
9. Our Sifter States—may our union be per*
petual, and our fraternal affections never be in*
tfrrupted by illiberal jealousies or local interests,
10. The people of the world—may freedom,
fcieace, commerce, industry and the aits of peace
unite us, and the nations of the earth become a
band of brothers.
u. Liberty and equality—may all hereditary
or ailumed diftin£tions among men, be facri.
ficed to the happiness of society, and pre-emi
nence of chara&er, be alone founded in talents,
wisdom and viitue.
ic>. Frecdtom to Fayette--*-may brethren
the Frcnch recoHeft that he bled for Amenca
13. The Generals and Armies of France
may the fwoid be sheathed when Liberty, Rca
fon and justice become the rulers among the
nations.
ExtraCl of a Utter Jrom the Soulhzwd,dated Fet. 3,
" Your observations of the French, agree
with my own ; if they fettle a proper form of
government they may be an happy people—
but if a democratic republican form only, fub
jeft to mibocracy— they may curie the revolu.
tion ; however, I hope good fenle will pre
vail, and that they will have a government of
laws, conlifting of personal-liberty and fecu.
rity of property.
44 I am pleased at their success in the Ne
therlands, Germany and Savoy.—The despots
v of Europe deserve no better ; I fufpedt the
common people are ready to be conquered
wherever they go, it being the cause of li
berty and equality.
*' We are here truly what fubjetts oujht
.0 be—very happy, and have every thing
plenty—a season of chearf'ul hilarity has en
sued lincc the holidays, and a constant round
of good eating, drinking, and tnirth, has been
our winter's amusement—we are fatisfied
with our rulers, and are confident Congress
will do all for the best."
NOTE.
The lajl paragraph of the above contains A Jhort
but comprehenftve description oj the slate of our tovn*
try—confirmed by oral teflimony oj persons from al
mofl all parts of the union—and, ft pa rating the
d r oss from the sterling information contained
in our Gazettes, ii torroborated by fhoje vehicles or
Organs oj the public mind.
AT a meeting of* the President & Dire&ers
of the Bank of the United States, held on
Friday the sth February, 1793, the following
named Gentlemen were ele&ed Directors of
the different Offices of Discount and Deposit,
and to take their feats on the firft Monday in
March next, to wit.
In Boston. •
Thomas Ruffe I I JohnC. Zones Theodore Lyman
Chriflopher Gore sos Rkj]eJl,jun. * Samuel Salisbury
Joseph Barrell Caleb Davis * Henry Hill
David Sears John Lowell *$am. Paikman
J.Codman } jun.
In Ntw-Yon*.
Rich. Harrifon Tho. Buchanan *Moses Rogers
Gerard Banker Thomas Pearfcll *Wm. Sheadefl
Nich. Hoffman John Delafieid *A, L. Bleekir
Phil. Litwgflon Matt. Liarhfon David Gelflon
William Laight
In Baltimore.
George Gale J. Holmes, jvn. * Jnf.Thorniurgh
David Stewart Nicholas Sluby * And. Buchanan
Stephen WHJon AdiianValck John Swan
Arch. CampbeU *J. P. PLafanti Thoro. Smith,
James Wejl
In CharttsfOh<
Dan. Defaufure Adam Tunno * Aaron Ltcock
Nath. RuJJcll David Ramsay *Edui. Darrell
* John M oodrcp John F. Grtmke Adam Gilchrift
Thomas Morris Rub. Hazlehurjl Arn. yandcrhorfl
Edw. Rutledge
The names marked thus * are new mem
bers, and succeed the proportion appointed if
the President and Directors of the Bank of the
United States, to be left out at every annual
election.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Philanthropes, A Pennfyivanian, LycnrgtU,
Civis, and many other favors, as soon as pot'
fible.
Proceedings of Congress omitted this d*y,
(hall appear in our next.FOR SALE,
Jiy the Sutjcriber, at Walnut-Street Wharfs
BILL or EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediate ule, in pipes & quarter caflcs,
TENE7UFFE WINE, in pipes,
SHERRY WINE, ill quarter eafks,
WEST-INDIA RUM. 2. 3 onr! 4 prool,
OLD CRANDY, OI.D SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Bal s 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13.4 Inch CABLE, 120 fashoms long.
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jjb. 19, >793- ep2m
TO be SOLD, OR LEASED
FOR SEVEN OR T f. N YEARS,
THE FOLLOWING
HOUSES.
ONE on Walnut-flreet, near Fourth-Href t,
23 feet front, has two parlours below, the
front onr by feet, the back parlour is
18 by 14 feet. The front room up (lairs is 26J
byi7gteet. There are five good chambers in
this house, betides the ferret is divided inio
three rooms, in two of them there are lire-
places.
The Other House is 27 feet uprtn Walnuf
ftrect, and 52 feet upon 4th ftrcet; there are twa
good parlours below, one of them 25 by 20 1-2
feet, the other 25 by 181-2 feet, and seven com
pletc bed-clumbers; betides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largest house has also a
house-keeper's room. It is intended 'herefhall
be a communication from bothofthefe houses
to a neighbouring ice-hoiifc, fufliciently large to
supply 3 houses. Within 50 yards of these
houses, there will be compleat (tables and coach
houses, for both houses ; thev will be finiOied
in the most compieat manner, ana the keys
ready to be delivered early in the summer.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
oth<r half may be paid bv inftalmems, or the
whole may remain for 5 years, paying intercft
and giving security on the premises.
For terms of sale or leafc, apply to the Sub
fc fiber,
GEORGE MEADE
Who has for SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
sixteen (hilling* and lix-pfrnce, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS, that will contain two
and a half and three and a half bushels.
Philadelphia, fan. 19, 179?. epQm
BY the Corii mi (lionets appointed 10 prepare
the Public Buildings, &c. within the City
of Waffhington, for the reception of Congress
and for their permanent rcfidence after the year
1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, vz
1 «Supe«b Hotel, with baths. )
out houses, &c.&c. to cost £
1 Cafii Prize
1 ditto
l ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
£.000 9T€
1,000
5 00
JOO
s°.
*5
20
10
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 Prizes
33,263 Blanks
50,000
The sole design of this Lottery being to facili
tate other im prove incnts together with the Public
ii i&lhe panirujar d<Tire of the Conv
m ; flioncrs that thele may be effeftcd with as
few deductions from the Prizrs as pofTible—how
far their endeavors may be answered, the Scheme
of the Lottery will d- rnonftrate. The keys of
the Hotel, when compleat, will he delivered to
the fortunate poflcir.jr of the ticket drawn a
againft its number.
All the other prizes will be paid, without
deduction, in one month after the dtawing, by
the City at Walhington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced.
The drawing will commence on Moiid'av the
9«.h of Septerr.bei next, at ihc City of Washing
ton.
Tickets had of Col. IV?n. Dicker,*, Citv
Trrafurrroi ; of Mr firs. ~jameslVejl
& Co. Baltimore ; ot Mr. Pctct Griivan., ftoftou ;
end at jftjch cthir places as will be hcscaftcr
pubiiHie;!.
X. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be-given Cor the bed .Plan n( anelegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and roki
Baths, vSrables, and other out houses, if presented
on or bejorf the \oth oj April next) and a pre
ference will be giv n 10 the Arcift for a Con-
provided he be duly qualified to
compleat h's pljn. The ground on which
Trie Kotcl snii a*.. t«> be < te&ed, v ill
be a corncr lot of about go by 200 feet, with a
back, avenue to ihe ftablcs, &c. Sections and
estimates of the expense will be cxpe6led
•with.the elcvayops. See, ; and 50,000
dollars mud be regarded by the Architect as the
ntmoft itmit in the expense intended for this
purpofc. ' S. BLODGET,
A orn: f(,r i lie afun i> of ihe Citv.
January 19,
A large Cellar to Let,
Sujpciciitly capacious to 'fiore ftveral hundred barrels.
Enquire oi the- Printer.
Mr. JJSIIUA HARM'S,
Si r,
YOU will plrafc to take notice, that I intend
to file a Bill in the High Court of Chancery,
in the St ite of Maryland, to compel you to con
vey the following Trafls of LAND, to wit—
Harbin's Lot, <ontatn:ng one hundred acres of
Unci ; Evans's Chance, containing fifty acres of
land; Pincy Grnt% containing ftvemy»tV» *»nd
one half acres of land ; and part of James' f TraEt,
containing twenty-five acres ; in the whole, two
hundred and fortv-feven and one half acres of
land ; situate, lying and being, in Montgom-ry
County, in the State of Maryland ; agreeable to
your Bond of Conveyance, entered into by yoo
to me the twenty-sixth day of November, 1781.
1 am, with due refoeft. 'hv friend,
'JOSEPH EVANS.
Ann Arundel Cmfnty, State of Maryland,
February sjl, 1792. (ep iow)
BANK OF THEUNITEO STATES
WHERF.AS foreigners holding Slock i.
the Bank of the United States may pre.
fer receiving their Dividends in Europe, tp re
ceiving thcni in America,
RESOLVED, That anv proprietor of the
Capital Stock of the Bank of the United States
residing in Europe, shall be entitled to receive
either in London or in Amflerdam, the half
yearly dividends which may be declared there
on—in London at the rate of one pound sterling
for every four hundred and forty-five cent?, or
in Amfterdain at the rate of one guilder current
money for every forty cents and four mills——the
dividend dfeclared in January of each .year, to
be paid in London or in Amflerdam on the se
cond Monday of July following—and the divi
dend declared in July of each year, to be paid in
London or In Amsterdam on the lecoud Mon
day of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to the declaring of any Dividend, so to be
paid in London or in Amsterdam) (hall Rive au
thentic notice to the President and Directors of
the Bank at which of the said Cities he will re
ceive the said Dividend.
B ANK OFT HE UNITED STATES.
THAT the Cashier he authorised to receive
from the proprietor of any number of com
plcat (hares, such Certificates, not in his own
name, as he mav be the proprietor of; and after
cancelling the fame, to ilTue a new Certificate or
Certificates in lieu thereof, in the name of such
proprietor.
Resolved, That in all future transfers of
corrtpleat (hares in the capital (lock, of the Bank,
the Certificates of the (hartfs transferred be can
celled, and a new Certificate or Certificates be
idued in the name of the transferee or purchaser.
Resolved, That the Certificates in fwtuie
iflncd, he for one or more (hares, as the pro
prietor may reqoeft ; and the new Certificate or
Certificates (hall be of corrcfpondent numbers
with those in lieu of which they arc iflued.
c-p3w
War Department,
JANUARY 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hercbv given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are entitled for fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1793, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioners of the Loans
within the states refptflivcly, under the usual
regulations, viz.
50,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
lOjOOO
10,000
10,000
10.000
10.000
Every application for payment mnft be ac
companied by thr following vouchers:
10, coo
SO.OOO
1 ft. The certificate given by the Hate, fpecifv
irig that the person poffcfling the fame is in fa£l
an Invalid, and alcertainihg the sum to which,
as such, he is annually intitled.
J50.000
Dollars 350,000
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the
ofjihe county of in the ilate of ' and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his pofiefiion was giv
en, of which {he following is a copy (the cer
nlicatc s'ven by the ftatc to be recited} That
he fcrvrd (regiment, corps or ve(IVl) at the
time he was difablcd, and that he now resides
in the and county of and has r< Tided
there for the la!l years, previous to which
he resided in
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment
by an attorney, the said attorney, besides the
certificate and oath before recitcd, mull produce
a fprcial letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
1, A. B. r»f county of state of
do hereby conffitute and appoint C. D. of
my lawful attorney, to receivc in mv behalf of
inv pension for fix months, at an Invalid
of »he United States, from the 4thdayofS?p
tnhbrr 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
as-
Applications of executors and administrators
must. be accompanied with lepal evidence of*
their refpeftivc offices, 2nd alio of the time the
Invalid djed, whose pen Hon they may claim.
By Command of the Prrfident
of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
$jT The Pt infers in the refpeflive State* are re
quejlrd to publiflithe above in their New [papers for
the Jpace of 2 months.
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER's Ferry.
Advertisement.
February il>, 1793.
By the President and Dirc&ors.
JOHN KEAN, Cafliicr.
R E SOL VID,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
signed and Sealed
in the Pixfcncc of
Acknowledged before me,
292
City of Wafliington.
Januaxy 7 lb > 1 793-
A NUMBER of Lota in thi» City will be of
fered for t'slr at au&ioß, by the Commif
fioncis, on tl)4e 17th day of September . next -—
One fourth pan of 'he purchase money u to be
paid down, the refiduc at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly intcreft on the whole pnnci
.pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Cm rs.
ExtiaS of an Ast of the Gcnrrai Affcmblv of
Maryland, concerning the l.erritoiy of Cu
lumbia, and the Citv ot Waihington.
" Be it mailed, That any foreigner may by
dee J or tall, hereafter to be made, take and hold lands
tv'thtn that part oj the laid Territory which ties with
in this State, in the f'me manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame landt may be con
veyed hy him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of this State: Provided, That no foreigner J.'hall,
in virtue hereof, be entitled to any further or other
privilege 0f # citizen
Jsn. 19.
Federal City.
THE Subscriber will convey forever, by
good and fiifficient deed, Thirty Lots in
the City of Washington, situated on South
Capitol Street, to any man or company of
nien-—provided they will agree to erect there
in good and fufficient brick houses, within
three years from the date hereof.
DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington.
City of Wajkington, Dec. 31,1792. 6t
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful (ituation pn the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of dire&ion towards the Federal
City and GeorgeTown,in full view of each place,
commanding a profpe£i of the river and adjacent
iountry of Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lyingdi
rc£Uy on the river, will be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-story framed
d welling-houfe, neatly finifhed, a kitchen, office,
buck, smoke-house 3nd dairy, two-story framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ice
houle, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
ceflary improvements ; the whole of the land
enclosed with pods and rails, tenor fifteen acres
laid idown, with different kinds of grass. Its
contiguity to those three towns must render it an
objc6t worthy the attention of any person who
wishes to iiiveft money in a property that must
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in.
crease ol the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Towii. This property !ics nearly in a
central (ituation to each place. The Fotowmack
at this spot has a fine deep (bore and harbour,
capable of receiving veflels of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be erc&ed here to the Citv of
Wafhingion and the Maryland (bores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.—Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which will suit well to fuoply the above in
wood and timber. The title may be fcen to the
above property, which is indisputable, and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, living
on the premises.
December 12/ A, 1792,
/jo Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 25th instant, a likely Ne
gro Man called Isaac, about twentv-three
years oid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made fellow, fond of talking, has a large
mouth, and shows his teeth very much when
talking ; had on when he went away 1 , a brown
linen shirt, a short white kerfeyover jacket with
a very high collar and plain bnaft, with buttons
which appear to have been Very gay ; a pair of
White kersey breeches, a pair of white knit yarn
{locking*, a pair of shoes with firings in them,
and a coaife hat ; all the above clothes are al
mcft n.'w. Said Negro was fprmerly the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas, lare of Kent
County, nrar George-Town Cross Roads, de
ceased, and has for several years been emploved
in th ft neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by Mcfirs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, which bulinefs he is
well acquainted with, and is what he prefers ;
and has been engaged in driving a waggon from
said Cross-Roads to Duck-Creek, &c. until
August lull. I expect he will make his way for
the neighbourhoods of George-Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will be paid if delivered to me in this
place, or Thirty Dollars if ftcuied in any goal,
so that I get him again. He is an anful fellow,
and when taken, will make his efcnpe, unless
particularly fccurcd.
Easton, OWES IiEXSARD,
>ttHol County, Maryland, Dec. 28, «7g«. 9.m
RUN-AWAY
"ON THE SUBSCRIBER, THE lSth APRIL,
A NEGRO BOY, named Zeb\ flimandtall,
fixtecn years old; came to Samuel Li pi n
cot's 31 Bordcntown on the 15'h, fa'd his name
was Henry, and left that place the 27th May.
On the 97th day of June, he was taken up in
Bucks County, and carried before a Magiltrate,
laid he was tree, arid that he lived on thr Slll
q^eb?nnah—that a petfon by the name ot Abra
ham Pi all, took him three days journey from
hntne, and turned him adrift with one dollar
He asked the Justice tor a pals to go to his fa
ther, and nothing appeared to the contrary-J-
He lived with one Thomas Paxwell till flic ,g,h
of rhis instant, and then made his elcane from
him; he called his name Peter Jo/in/lon—had
on an old Grey Coating Round Jacket, lined
with red baize; nn old pair Leather Breeches,
and an old Felt Hat. Whoever lakes up said'
Boy,and brings linn to Jacob Merser eau, 011
S'.aten-lfland,jhall receive TWENTY DOL
LARS, With reasonable charges, paid bv
. JACOB MEXSEREAU, Lieut. Col.
2 9- law6w
BALDWIN DADE
tP'm
Just published.
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bnkfcller, at the Stout-Hot ft, in Seiend Jlrttt,
PHI LADELFHI A, '
VOLUME VII, o»
.ENCYCLOPAEDIA:
or, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
AND
MISCELLANEOUS I-ITFRATURE,
On a Plan c*tircl\ new :
BY WHICH
THE DIFFERENT SCIENCES AND ARTS
arc digested into the Form of Diftmtt
TREATISES OK SYSTEMS: '
COMPREHENDING
THE History, Theory, and Prafliv-c, of rach t
according to the Laic It Difcoveiits and im
provements : and full Explanations given of the
various detached parrs of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural and Arttficial Objcfts, or to
Matters Eccltftaftical. Civil, Militaiv, Commer
cial, &c. Including Elucidations of the most im
portant Topics relative to Religion,Morals,Man
ners, and ihe Oeconomy of L le : together with
a Description of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, &c. throughout
the World ; a* General History, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empire?, Kingdoms,
and States; and an account of the Lives of the
most Eminent Persons in every Nation, f rom the
earliest ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the best author?, i l(
several Languages ; the most: approved Di&iona
iies, as well of General Science as of particular
branches; the Tranfa&ions, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned societies, both at home and
abroad—the MS. le£lures of eminent profeflors
on different Sciences : and a variety of original
Materials, furnilhed by an extensive Cdrrefpon
dence.
The Seventh Volume contains a dcfcriphon
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Expe
rt mental Philnfi»phv- S-yfWei of Fst: i
system, Fire, Afr,Flux ons. Food, Fortifica
tion, of Fiance, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometrv, Gilding, Glass,
See. with a variety of articles in natural hiftorv,
biography and mifcellanics. Illullrated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the puipofe) which
will be occafiorally renewed before they con
trast a worn appearance.
11. The work is furnifhed in hoards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubfenbers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each,ol the
halt-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on ful>-
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, thepriceofone
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unlefspaid for.
111. In the cow fe of the publication will be de
livered about five hundied copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far cxceed in number ihofe given in any olhtr
fcieniific di£iionary. At theclofe oi the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant fTontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expelled the woik will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
(£3T Those who wish to become po(Te(Tors of
this valuable work will please to be early in their
applications, as the fubfeription is nearly c o cd.
Jan. 23.
To the Public.
r pHE Subscribers having been appointed n
jL committee of the Board of the Trustees r>f
the University of North-Carolina, for the pur
pose of receiving proposals from such gentlemen
as may intend to undertake the iuftiu£Kon of
youth in that institution, take the opportunity
of making known to the public their wilh that
fucb gentlemen should fignify their inclination
to the fubferibers.
The objects to which it is contemplated by
the Board to turn the attention of the
on the firft eilablifhment, are—The study of
Languages, particularly the English—History,
ancient and modern—the Belle-lettrrs—Locis
and MofiJ Phiiofnptiy-—r'rrc the
Mathematics and Natural Philolophy— Agricul
ture and Botany, with the principles of Archi-
tenure.
Gentlemen converfnnt in these branches of
Science and Literature, and who can be well re
commended, will receive verv handsome encou
ragement by the Boaid. The exercises of the
institution will commence as early i s poflible
after the completion of the buildings ol tlie t'n<-
verfuy, which are to be cont rafted for immedi-
SAMUEL ASHE,
ately.
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAYF,
DA VI D STOXE,
SAM. M'CORKLES.
D 25 r f >2 " l
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or between Provident
and Boston, a very (mail TRUNK, covcred
with fcal-lkin of a reddilh colour, with white
spots. It contained a quantity of Soiith and
North-Carolina State Notes, and a few of th.e
State of Rhode-lfland ; with other papers,which
can only be fernceablc to the proprietor. The
State notes are cht cked at the offices from whence
the\' ; ii\jcd. Any per foil producing the/TVo***
(with its conrt-nJs) to JOHN MARSTON, of
Boston, WILLIAM HALL, of Providence,
Messrs. PATERSON and BRASHER, tyew-
York, or Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in PhiladeU
phia, (bail receive the above reward, or for any
part of the prftpcrtv, One Hundred Dollars.
Boston, Nov. 28,
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold t' v the Booksellers,
DOSSON, CAK~£Y, ) OUNG, & CRMKS&ANK-*
eptf.