CSwJf 0 0p
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 68 of Vol. IV.]
FOR SALE,
By the Suijcriter, at Wainut-&trect Wharf,
BILL of EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Tit for immediate uie, in pipes & quarter calks,
TENF.RIFFE WINE, in pipes,
SHERRY WINE, in quarter caflts,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proof,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Bales 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13*4 Inch CABLE, 120 fathoms long.
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1793. <P 2m
TO be SOLD, or LE/4SED
LOft SEVEN OR TEN YEARS,
THE FOLLOWING
HOUSES.
ONE. dt Wjlnvi-iUefi'. near fpurth-ilreet,
23 feet from, has iwo parlours below, the
liont one 21$ by 17J feel, the back parlour is
18 by 14 feet. The front room up flairs is 26J
by 17J feet. There are five good chambers in
this house, besides the garret is divided into
•hiee rooms, in two oi thcin there arc fire
places.
The other House is 27 feet upon Walnut
ftreet, and 52 feet upon fth street; there are two
good parlours below, one of them 25 by 20 1-2
feet, the other 25 by >8 1-2 feet, and seven com
plete bed-chambers; besides the garret is di
vided into 4 »ooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the hoofes ; the largcft house has also a
house-keeper's room. It is intended there shall
be a communication from both of these houses
to a neighbouring ice-house, fufficiently large to
fupp>y 3 hciufes, Within 50 yards of thele
houses, there will be compleat stables and coach
houses, for berth houles; they will he finifhed
in the mod compleat manner, and the keys
ready to be delivered early in the summer.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
Qth r half may be paid bv inftalmenis. or the
•whole may remain for 5 years, paying iritereft
anil divine f<-r■""v m; t:ic pramifrt. -
For terms of sale or lease, apply to the Sub
scriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has Jor SALE,
Sundrv Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-si e pounds
iixteen fhilliugsand fix-pence, per annum.
Also, a quantir.v of BAGS, that will contain t wo
and a half and three and a half bushels.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1792. ep*w
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will be of
fered tor sale at au&ion, by the Commis
sioners, on the 17th day of September next. —
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the rcfidueat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interest on the whole princi*
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Cem'rs'.
Extract of an Ast of the General Aflemhly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Washington.
14 Be it enabled, That any foreigner may by
j deed or will, hereafter to be made. take and hold lands
within that part 0} the )aid Territory which lies with
in this State, in tht fame Manner as if Tie was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him % and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of tht i State : Provided, That no foreigner flail,
in virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen
Jhii. 19. tf
Soon mil be publijhed,
the SYSTEM of
i^Aovt-fflanch
tlfed by Mr.Li.OY d, in taking down the Debates
of Congress. A system' so easy, that any man,
of ordinary capacity, may clearly comprehend
it in half an hour, and soon praftife if, in ks
iullcft extent, without any further inftru&ion,
lhan what will be conveyed in a few pages,—
the whole ART being comprised in eighteen
Jimpte chai alters, without any of thole perplexing,
arbitrary marks, with which the learners of
other fyftema are obliged to burden their me
mory, and embarrass their practice.
Pncc, to Subscribers, One Dollar—to Non-
Sub fcribers, a Dollar and half.
Subfcnptionsreceived by Mcdis. Rice, Book
sellers, Market-It reet, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street.
Half a Dollar to be paid at the time ofJubjcribing.
A large Cellar to Let,
Sufficiently capacious to flore/everal hundred barrels.
Eoquirc ot the faiKTti
Wednesday, January 25, 1793-
BY the Cotnmi(Boners appointed to prepwe
the Public Buildings, &c; within the City
of Washington, for the reception of Conflrefs'
and for their permanent residence after the/year
1809—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
£0,000 Tickets at dollars, is 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
l Supeib Hotel, wit h baths, £
out houses, &C.&C. to cost >
l Cash Prize
i ditto
x ditto
i ditto
5,d00 is
2 ditto
10 ditto
so ditto
1,000 is
500 is
joo ditto
EOO ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
j 00 is
5° I s
25 is
20 is
10 is
16,737 Prize*
33,263 Blanks ,
50,000
The sole design of this Lottery being to facili
tate other improvements together with tbePublic
Buildings—it is the particular desire of the Com
miflioners that these may be effe&ed with as
few deductions from the Prizes as jJoflible—how
far their endeavors may be answered, the Scheme
of the Lottery will demonstrate. The keys of
the Hotel* when compleat, will be delivered to
the fortunate poffeflor of the ticket drawn a
againft its number.
All the other prizes will be paid, -without
deduflion, i n one month after the drawing, by
the City Treafurcr at Waifhington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced.
The drawing will commence on Mondav the
9th of Septcmbei next, at the .City of Wafhing
t°n. .
Tickets mav be had of Col. Wjn. Dickens, City
Treasurer of Washington ; of MeflVs. James Wejl
& Co. Baltimore ; of Mr. Peter Gilman, Boston ;
and at such other places as will be hereafter
published.
X. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for thebeft Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if trefented
On or before the 10th oj April next; and a pre
ference will be given 10 the Artist for a Con
trast, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ere&ed, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, See. Settions and
estimates of the expense will be expetted
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars must be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the expense intended for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
January 19.
SECOND
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of* Pennsylvania, on Monday
the fifth »f November, oijethoufand
seven hundred and ninety-two.
An ACT concerning the registering
and recording of Ships or Veflels.
Sec. i.T)E it enacted by the Senate and Honfe
-D of Representatives of the United
Stater, of America, in Congress afTembled,
That (hips or veiTels, which (hall have been
reentered by virtue of the ast, intituled, " An
ast for registering and clearing veflels, regu
lating the coasting trade, and for other pur
pots," and tliofe which after the last day ofi
March next, fliall be registered, pursuant to
this ast, and no other (except such as (hall be
duly qualified, according to law, for carrying
or the coasting trade and filhery, or one of
them) ftia'il be denominated or deemed (hips
or veifels of the United States, entitled to the
benefits and privileges appertaining to such
(hips or vilT:lj : Provided, That they (hall
not coniinue to enjoy the fame, longer tkan
they (hall continue to be wholly owned, and to
be commanded by a citizen or citizens of the
said States.
Soc. 2. And be it further enacted, That
(hips or veiTels built within the United Stated,
wliitber before or after the fourth of July,
one thousand seven hundred and seventy-six,
and belonging wholly to a citizen or citizens
269
thereof, or ant built within the said dates,
but <?n the 16th day of May, in the year one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine be
longing and thenceforth continuing to belong
to a citizen or citizens thereof, and (hips or
veflels, which may hereafter be captured in
war, by such citizen or citizens, and lawfully
condemned as prizes, or which have been or
may be adjudged to be forfeited for a breach
of the laiws of the United States, being whol
ly owneij by a citizen or citizens thereof, and
110 othet, maybe registered as herein after di
rected : Provided, That no such fliip or veflel
(hall be entitled to be so registered, or if re
gistered, to the benefits thereof, if owned in
whole or in part, by any citizen of the United
States, who usually refidcs in a foreign coun
try, during the continuance of such residence,
unless fucli citizen be in the capacity of a
confut of the United States, or an agent for,
and a partner in, some house of trade or co
partnership, consisting of citizens of the said
States actually carrying on trade within the
said States : And provided further, That no
(hip or Veflel, built within the United States,
f 'V tp tba laid fifteenth d»y of May, which
waj not then owned wholly, or in part, by a
cititen or citizens of the United States, fliall
be capable of being registered, by virtue of
any transfer to a citizen or citizsns, which
ma' hereafter be made, unless by way of
priie or forfeiture : Provided nevertbelefs,
Thit this (hall not be construed to prevent
the registering anew, of any (hip or vessel,
wheh was before registered, pur/uant to the
I act before mentioned.
50,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
io,odo
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
20,000
J 50, CO©
Dollars 350,000
Sec. 3. And be it further ena&ed, That
every ship or vefTel, hereafter to be registered
(except as is herein after provided) shall be
regftered by the collector of the diltrift in
whch (hall be comprehended the port to
which such ship or veflel (hall belong, at the
time of her registry, which port lhall be deem
ed to be that, at or nearest to which, the
owner, if there be but one, or If more than
onf, the husband or a&iug managing owner
offuch ship or veflel, usually resides. And the
nJme of the said Ihip or veflel, and of the
pit to which she lhall so belong, flia.ll be
pintcd on her stern, on a black ground, in
Mpitcletters, of not less than three inches in
length. And if any ship or vefTel of the Uni
ted States, shall be found, without haying her
name, and the name of the port, to which she
belongs, painted in manner aforefaid, the
owner or owners shall forfeit fifty dollars ;
one half to the person giving the information
theredf; the other half to the use of the Uni
ted States.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, Tiiat in
order to the regiltry of any ship or veflel, an
oath or affirmation lhall be taken and sub
scribed by the owner, or by one of the owners
thereof, before the officer authorized to make
such registry, who is hereby empowered to
adin'mifter the fame, declaring, according to
the belt of the knowledge and belief of the
person fd swearing or affirming, the name of
such Ihip or veirel, her burthen, the place
were (he was built, if Uuilt within the Uni
ted, and the N year in which (he was built;
and if built within the United States, before
the said iixteenth day of May, one thousand
seven huiidred ahd eighty nine, that she was
then owned wholly, or in part, by a citizen or
Citizens of ths United States; and if not built
within the laid States, that she was, 011 the
16th day of May, and ever since, hath confin
ed to be, the entire property of a citizen or
citizens of the United States; or that ftie was,
at some time posterior to the time when this
ast shall t?ke effect (fpetifying the said time)
captured fn wax by a citizen orcitizens of the
laid States, and lawfully condemned as prize
(producing a copy of the sentence of con
demnation, authenticated in the usual forms)
or that (he has been adjudged to be forfeited
for a breach of the laws of the United States
(producing a like copy of the sentence where
by she shall have been so adjudged) and de
claring his or her name and place of abode,
and if he or she be the idle owner of the said
ship or veflel, that such is the cafe : or if
there be another owner or other owners, that
there is or are such other owner or owners,
fpecifving his, her, ou their name or names,
ind place or places of abode, and that he, she,
or they, as the cafe may be, so swearing or
affirming, is or are citizens of the United
States ; and where an owner resides in a fo
reign country, in the capacity of a consul of
the United States, or as an agent for, and a
partner in, a house or co-partnership, confid
ing W citizens of the United States, and ac
tually carrying on trade within the United
States, that such is the cafe, and that there is
no fubjeft or citizen oj" any foreign prince or
state, directly, or indirectly, by way of trust,
confidence, or otherwise, interested in fucb
ship or veflel, or in the profits, or iflues there
of ; and that the matter or commander there
of is a citizen, naming the said master, or
commanders and slating the means whereby,
or manner in which he is so a citizen. And
in cafe, any of the matters of fact, in the
said oath or affirmation alledged, which shall
bs withiu the knowledge of the party, so swear
ing, or affirming, shall not be true, there
[Whole No. 390.
shall be a forfeiture of f lie (hip or vessel,
gether with her tackle,furniture and apparel
in refpeft to whkl 1 , the fame shall have been
made, or of the value thereof, to be recover-
Ed with costs of suit, of the person, by whom
such oath or affirmation shall have been made'
Provided always, That if the master, or per-
son having the charge or command cf liich
ship or veflel, (hall be within the diftrift afore
faid, when application fball l>e made for re
gistering the fame, he fnall, himleif, make
oath, or affirmation, instead of the said own
er, touching his being a citizen ; and the
means whereby, or manner in which, he is lb
a citizen ; in which cafe, if what the said
master, or person having the said charge or
command shall so swear or affirm, fjiall not be
true, the forfeiture aforefaid lhall not be in
curred but he shall, himfelf, forfeit and pay,
by reason thereof, the sum of one thouiand
dollars: And provided further, That in the
cafe of a ship or veifel, built within the Uni
ted States, prior to the sixteenth day of May
aforefaid, was not then owned by a citizen, or
citizens of the Uniteti States, but which., by
virtue of a transfer to such citizen, or citi
zens, (hall have been purfuanc to
the ast before mentioned, the oath or affirma
tion, hereby required, lhall and may be va
ried according to the truth of the cafe, as of
ten as it (hall be requisite to grant a new re
gilter, for such Ihip or veflel.
Se&. 5. And be it further enabled, That
it (hall be the duty of every owner, resident
within the United States, of any fliip or ves
sel, to which a certificate of registry may be
granted (in cale there be more than one fnch
owner) to transmit to the colle£\or» who may
have granted the fame, a like oath or affirma
tion with that herein before directed to be
taken and subscribed by the owner, on whole
application, fticli certificate shall have been
granted, and within ninety days after the
fame may have been so granted ; which oath
or affirmation may, at the option of the party
be taken and subscribed, either before the said .
collector, or before the colle&or of some other
diftrift, or a judge of the supreme, or diftrift
court of the United States, or ot a fuperio. -
court of original jurifdi£tion of some one of
the States. And if such oath or affirmation
lhall not be taken-, fiibfcribed and tranfmittcd,
as is herein required, the certificate of regis
try granted to such ship or vessel, shall b? for
feit and void.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That
before any (hip or veflel shall be registered,
(lie fliall be measured by a surveyor, if tl ere
be one, or by the person he (hall appoint, at
the port or place where the laid fliip or veflel
may be, and if there be none, by such person
as the collector of the diftrift, within which
(he may be, shall appoint, according to the
rule prescribed by the forty-third lection of
the ast, entitled " an ast to provide moie ef.
feftually for_the collection of the duties im«
posed by law on goods, wares and merchan
dizes, imported into the United States, and on
the tonnage of Ihips or veflels." At d the
officer, or person, by whom such aduit afute
ment fliall be made, (halt, for the information
of, and as a voucher to the officer by wlioni
the registry Is to be made, grant a certificate,
fpecifying the built of such (hip or veflel, her
number of decks and muds,her length,bi't adth,
depth, the number of tons (lie measures, and
such Other particulars as are usually descrip
tive of the identity of a fliip or veflel ; ar.cl
that her name, and the place to which (he
belongs, are painted on her (tern, in manner
required by the third feftiofi of this ast ;
which certificate (hall be countersigned by an
owner, or by tbe matter of I'uch (hip or veflel,
or by some other person who fliall attend her
admeasurement, on behalf of her owner ar
owners, in teftimany of the truth of the par?
ticulars therein contained } without which,
the said certificate fliall not be valid. But in
all ca es, where a (hip or veflel has befor*
been registered, ai a (hip or velfel of the Uni*
ted States,jit /hall not be neceflary to
her anew, for the purpolj of obtaining ano
ther register ; except such Ihip or veflel Iball
have undergone some alteration, as to her
burthen, subsequent to tlie time of her for
mer registry.
Sec- 7. And be it further enacted, That
previous to the registry of any (hip or veflVl,
the hufoand or a&ing and managing owner,
together with the matter thereof, and one or
more sureties to the fatisfa&ion of the cul-
Jeftoi of the diftrift, whose duty it is to make
fucb registry, lhall become bound lo the Uni
ted States, if such IHip 01 veflel fliail be of
burthen not exceedingfiftv tons, in the sum
of four hundred dollars ; if of burthen above
fifty tons, and not exceeding one hundred, in
the Aim of eight hundred dollars, if of bur
then above hundred tons, and not exceeding
two hundred, in the sum of twelve hundred
dollars ; if of burthen above two hundred
tons, and not exceeding three hundred, in the
fuin offixteen hundred dollars ; and cf bur
then exceeding three hundred tons, in the
fuin of two thousand dollars ; with condition,
in each cafe, that the certificate of such re.
gifti y, shall be (olely used for the fl.ip, or ves
sel, for which it is granted, and lhall not be
fold, lent or otherwise disposed of, to anypperr r
t,foil or peffons whomlbver ; and that in cafe
fnch (hip or veflel (hall be loft, or taken by an
enemy, burnt, or broken up,or (hall be other
wise prevented from returning to the port
to which she may belong, the raid certificate,
if preserved, lhall be delivered up, withm
eight days after the arrival- of the matter, or
p-rfon, having the charge or command of such
fliip or veflel, within any diftrift df the Unit
ed States, to the collector of such diftrift :
And that if any fori igner, or any person or
peribns, for the use and benefit of such fo
reigner, (hall purchase, or other-wife become
intitled to the whole, or any pare or (hare of,
or intefeft in, filch (hip or veflel, the fame be
ing within a diftrift of the United State-., the
said certificate (hall, in such cafe, within se
ven days after fuchpurchafe, change, or tranf
fer of propertv, be delivered up to the collec
tor of the laid ditlriaj and that if any fnch
purchase, change, or transfer of property,
(hall happen, when such (hip or veflel (hall be
at any foreign port or place, or at sea, then
the Paid matter, or person having the charge
or command thereof, (hall, within eight davs
after his arrival within any diftrift of the
United States, deliver up the said certificate
to the collector of such diftrift; and every
such certificate, so delivered up, (hall be forth
with transmitted to the Register of the Trea
ftirv, to be cancelled, who, if the fame (hall
have been delivered up to a collector, other
than of the diftriifl in which it was granted,
shall cause notice of fnch delivery to be given
to the collector of the said district.
[7o he continued.]
LONDON, November 8.
THE rnagiftratcs of Frankfort weie for ex
torting the whole of the contribution from
the Jews only. This brought on a remonstrance,
not to those mean and contemptible tyrants who
had long infultcd and pi.laged them, hut ro the
French General, who very properly interfered,
and not only prelerved the Children oj Ifraelirom
■this last ast of opprefßon from an infclent and
illiterate magistracy, but procured them an im
mediate restoration to those rights of which they
had been for ages iniquitoufly and wantonly de-
prived.
The jews are now restored to the rank of
manhood at Frankfort, and enjoy all the rights
of freemen, to the no small mortification of their
purfe-pioud opprellors, who no longer presume
to elbow the persecuted race, and exclude them
the peifecuted walks.
Mr» Fox is fti'tl making up his mind about
thequeftion of Parliamentary Reform. This
is not to be wondered at, when we consider how
flow that gentleman always was at reform of any
kind.
Grey is come up from the north, where the
people have begun to look very black upon him.
Mr. Fox, on his late (hooting p*rty, was fre
quently heard to be humming the air in the Beg
gar's Opera.
" Which way (hall I turn me,
" How (hall I decide ?"
Whilfl thus he was musing, he was always
fur* to mi ft his mark.
A few days since, a journeyman carpenter, in
pulling down the wainlcot ot a room in an old
house at H end on, found concealed within the
skirting boards, 700 guineas, of the coin of Geo.
I. and 11.
ChaflfsToxS bead "is taken down as a sign pojl
—it may, however, very properly be fltuck up
as a wcathcr-cock.
A farmer in SufTex, pofleflTed of property to
the amount of four thousand pounds, was lafl
week committed to Horfham gaol by Lord Shef
field, for sheep Healing !
N E W-Y O R K, Jan. 17.
Extract of a letter from Loudon, dated
the 12th of November laj},
" I am sorry to find tjiat 'your
lace speculations in the American
funds have not been so favorable as
you wished and had a right 10 ex
pedl ; the price here hashad little
variation since my last, but I would
advise you by no means to despair
of their turning to a proper account
ere long : 1 ground this opinion
upon the best information, and you
may reft afl'ured that the American
Government and their National
Charader are growing into great
estimation, and the surprising in
crease of their refonrces which are
known here to every man of the
finalleft information will establish
yonr Public Credit ; and (hortly
place it on a footing with that of
any other government—The dis
contents prevailing in this kingdom,
and particularly in Ireland, fill
many of the monied people with
disagreeable apprelienlions ; and I
know already fonte who have turn
ed their eyes towards your funds ;
and have it certainly in contempla
tion to place their money capital in
them, which they will certainly do
if the public mind becomes a little
more agitaied ; at any rare, yon
may, I think, with fafety count up
on a considerable rife, as there feeins
a great probability of peace taking
place between the powers at war on
the continent.
" The King of Prnflia will cer
tainly change his fyfteni as it re
gards France, and ir is not doubted
that the Turks will he prevailed up
on to declare war against the Em
peror, and likewii'e the tyrant of
Ruflia. Should the former continue
his hoitile difpolition, and the lat
ter a<Jl offenfively towards that re
public, it is well known that the
Turks, aided by the marine of
France, will be very formidable to
these two powers in that quarter of
their dominions, and make fuchim
preffions on those despots as may
give a fatal blow to their greatness.
" These circuniftances are well
known here, —which, together with
the new order of things, will have
a proper weight with the bellige
rent powers, and incline them ie
rioufly to pacific measures; iu which
sentiments they will be aided by
this country, as well as Spain and
Portugal, for very wife reasons.
Upon the whole, I think it de'mon-
Itrable that either peace or war
will rife the credit of your stocks,
much beyond what they have ever
been in this country."
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fen no,
IF you regard your own profit, or the enter
tainment of your readers, you will make an
immediate and total reform in the conduct of
your Gazette. Your profit depends on the falc
of your paper, and the sale of it depends on its
being adapted to the taste of your customers.
The majority of men is composed of readers
who are following their private affairs, and who
care not a sous !or politics. There are
antis who hate every thing but such slander oti
.Congress men as will give vent ro the bile that
i.s choking them. There arealfo a few zealous
federalifts who fuffer perpetual fears for the over
throw of all order, which they know would re*
joice the hearts of the leaders of the anti-fa&on.
— Now, Sir, is it not manifeft from this mode
of clafling the newspaper readers, that prsife,
however modest and well deserved, beftoved
on the government and its officers, affords no
sale for your paper ? Most men hale to hear any
praise but their own. No, Mr. Fenno, turi a
bout—Spice your paragraphs with (bnder on
the Onjrrcfs men and officers of government.
It will (barpen the flomachs of your readers.
Your papers will be fought after and read vith
avidity. Where is the harm even if you fliain
the truth a little, to get at them—lf they betave
well, the dirt will not (lick.—lt is doing fcnice
to the cause of virtue to slander those who are
devoted to its precepts. The good example is
made the more conspicuous— Fill your pa>tr
with abuse if you expect to fill your pockt'js
wiih gold—To vindicate the measures of govern
ment is an uphill bufmefs, which tires you a*d
your readers—But the contrary being downhs,
is rather a lecreation than a task. A goverfk
mrnt the most prudent may sometimes commjt
mistakes, and then you will be compelled to
own t ; and if you know any palliation, to fuj -
geft it, which is a difagjeeable thing But f
you make war on a ministry, and pay little moje
regard to matter ot fa£l than jutt enough to keep
your credit tolerable, vou will never want a fub
je£ of complaint. You may fay then whejn
Congress does good, it is with a fly intention
that evil shall come of it—and indifferent mat
ters will bear a trifling twist, which will make
them appear abominably crooked and vile.
Be advised by a friend, Mr. Fenno, and as
you throw the aqua fortis about you, it will cake
off the skin wherever it falls—and then you may
cry, fee what a rotten leprous administration go
verns out country. My water is applied to take
down the proud flefh.
Thus you may bold of your patriotism, and
get paid for having none. Perhaps this fyrt of
merit will procure you a salary.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Thursday, January xo.
S letch of the Debate on the Resolutions refpefling the
Lean of the Balances due from the United Stales
to the individual States.
(CONCLUDED.)
Mr. Clark said, when the resolutions were
ftrft proposed, he thought no obje&ion would
be made to them ; but he had heard fomethipg
which had alarmed him, and that was, what
fell from the gentleman from Pcnnfylvania, tljat
there would be no debtor states—this, he said,
alarmed him, as it appeared to convey an idea of
the commifiioners for fetling the accounts, hav
ing adopted the principle ; this, he conceived,
they were not authorised to do. He further ob
fcrved, that he did not think with those who fyp
pofed that the deciTions of the commiHionfjr
were n»t to be revised ; he was pretty sure they
would be revised, if they adopted any such
principle as this, which he considered as as in
volving great injultice.
Mr. Fitzfimons rose to explain; he said he
was misunderstood; he had not said there would
be no debtor ftates—Different principles of fet
ling the accounts have been mentioned, but he
had not said whether the commifiioners would
fettle the accounts on the principle of debtor and
creditor states, or make them all debtor or all
creditor states. He had only givep his.q/uniin
that there ought to he no debtor states. The
question now before the committee is, whether
the United States (hall pay the states in their
corporate capacities, or pay the individual ere
270
ditors. He cor.ccived the gentleman was total
ly mistaken in his opinion refpeSing a reviiion
of the judgment of the commifiioners ; the law,
lie said, had put that entirely out of the power
of the legiflatiire- . ,
Mr. W. Smith said, that he conceived the pre
sent proprofition had nothing to do with the
the question refpefling debtor or creditor Hates;
it relates (imply to a provision for the sums due
to the individual creditors of the several states,
who are really creditors of the United States.
He noticed the objecftion from additional taxes;
no difference, he contended, would result from
the measure, the balances are to be provided for
at all events. Th>t the present was the best time
to take up the business, he observed, was well
argued by the gentleman from Pen»fylvania, in
addition to which he thought the allusion to the
state of affairs on the representation bill by th;
Sentleman from Maryland was direitly in
point; the difficulties on account of the ratio
were encreafcd, when the result of the eenfus
was known ; and this would be the cafe if this
business should be postponed to the time when
the accounts are fettled—He therefore contend
ed, that the present was the most proper time to
make the provision contemplated. Mr. Smith
noticed in order, the various obje&ions which
had been made by several gentlemen, and con
cluded that he trusted, from what he had said,
it would appear that the proposition was entire
ly dear of those difficulties which had been ur
ged against it.
Mr. J.»ivermore moved an amendment to the
firft resolution ; the obje& of which was to ex
onerate those states, who on a final adjustment
of accounts shall appear to be debtor states.
Mr. Gerry offered fame objections to this a
mendment.
Mr. Ames said, that the amendment appear
ed to him irrelative to the fubjedt now under
consideration; he hoped therefore, the gentle
man would be induced to withdraw it.
Mr. Madison observed, that when the a
mendment was firft brought forward, he had
supposed it merely sportive; but it n©w appears
that the gentleman is serious in moving it. He
thought it in this view a proposition that might
well excite attention, for he conceived it an ex
traordinary idea to be advanced, that any of the
states who lhould be found debtor states, should
be released from all obligations to pay.
Mr. Sedgwick offered various observations on
the fubjeft generally; the tenor of which was
this, that however it might appear on the final
adjustment of accounts, that there were sundry
debtor states, yet it was hardly pra&icable to
devise a mode of compelling payment from such
states; nor could he colled it to be the opinion
of any gentleman, that an idea of compulsion
was entertained by any one.
Mr. Livermore said, his motion was not un
derstood; he had no idea of exonerating the
debtor states in the manner suggested by several
of the gentlemen who had remarked on it; by
the explanation he gave of his motion it appear
ed, that his objedt was the apportioning the ge
neral charge, and to exonerate the debtor states
from any demand against them, on account of
the credit they were entitled to as members of
the union, not to release them from their full
proportion of the average charge of prosecuting
the war.
Mr. Mercer said, he was more and more con
vinced that there was to be no debtor (fates;
the proposition from the gentleman from New-
Hanipfhire lays so; the resolutions origiaally
moved, speak the fame language; the report of
the secretary of the treasury is founded on the
fame principle.—The meaning of all which is
burn the books.
Mr, Clark moved, that the commifiioners for
fettling the accounts (hould be inftruiftcd to re
port a statement of all the debts and credits of
the several states. He reprobated the idea of
making all creditor states, as he conceived the
consequence would be a great encreafe of the
balances to be provided for by the United States.
The question was adjourned till the next day.
TUESDAY, Jan. 15.
The Petitions of ihc officers of me l»te army
being under confidcration in committee of the
whole—the following motion was made by Mr.
Gerry, viz.
" RefoTved, as theopinion of this committer,
That provision be made for such officer?, non
commiirioncd officers and soldiers of the late ar
my of the United States, who received certifi
cates for the balances due to them on a final set
tlement of their refpettive accounts. Provided,
that such provision shall not exceed the ditf. r
ence between the nominal amount of the said
certificates, and the real 4thAmu, eftimaied at
the piel'em rates in the market, of the cHtificatis
which are or mav be iffiied for thole fir ft menti
oned, pursuant to an ast making provision for
the debt of the United States."
Mr. Clark moved an amendment, which was
to insert in the fiid clause after the word " fni,"
all per/on s who have received liquidated ct' tificales
jorfervices rendered or Jupplies Jurnjhtd during
the late war, and.
On i his motion to amend, Mr. Hartley made
the'following ohfctvations—^
I wifiied that a qurllion upon the prayer nf
the petitioners might he fairly taken, without
any'embarfafTmem 01 Conncftion with another
--
Let us consider and difcufsthe claims of the
officers and I'oldicrs ol the late artny, and either
grant them, or dismiss their petitions with de
ccnry.
The gentleman from New-]erfcv yrflerdav
came forward with a resolution, cxprefling that
the ptaver of the pet'tioners could not be 'grant
ed—lf this was confident with his opinion, it
was candid —he appeared openly to avow his
fentinunts I cannot fjy quue (o much in his
fav'ir to-dav, lor withdrawing his motion.
Indeed, the motion p.eftnt'ed by the gentle,
man from MafTachufetts. comes lorwaid'... so
queflionahle a (hape, that lam a , a !„f, know
who arc lnentlsor tnernieito the ohj. 6\„ ol the
petitioners. J
To adopt the proposed amendment. I consider
as death to the motion on the :alU—,t embraces
ton much —it eontrm pUtn whit the aWlitin »f
hi* country arc nut competent to.
I hope u will not be agreed to.
The officers and foldicrs attempt to (hew that
there is a diftin&ion between their cafe and o-
che« citizens ; bcfidts what they have to hopt
From the bounty and magnanimity of the nation.
It may not be amiss ior me here to mention,
that I have never had a certificate, and that I a m
not personally intereftcd in the queition —1 *a»
an officer part of the war, but have nothing
aflc for here. I consider that the otficcrs
soldier? have a clainnof jufticc as well as equity,
besides what they might expect from the magna
nimity of the nation.
I ffiall fajf but a few words on the. fuffcrin«
and diftrefc of the aimy; thry wcr* , nd
u< #/ampled in the history of mankind—Thoic
who are now prcfent, and wcie eklirt in thcea.
binet or field, mutt know the fotce of my ob.
fervation. I will not detail the fceneaot mist.
ry exhibited during the war.
To fuppoit the rights and libertiesof thecouc
try,officers and foldien freely entered into the
' fcrvice —In the year 1776 the officers, had half. *
pay; in the year 1777 the pay was nominally in. |
creased. but unfortunately depreciation came 00,
and their a&ual compenfaiion was less than tba.
year before.
T have a refpefl for a militia-man, bin his cafe
cannot becompaicd in point of difficulties aud
danger to that of the officer and folder—the
former occajiooally called forth—the latter con
stantly at the post of danger and duty. Thore
was certainly an inequality in their
which ought to have been qornpenfated lor to
the soldier.
The officer who was married, though hecouJd
meet the dangers of the field yet could
not view with fortitude the poverty and misfor
tune which threatened his family.
Congress had made no piovifion to grant half
pay to the officer* (who fhouid serve to the end
ol the wai y nntil~fbiftr time itfrtrc yegr i /7ft— —
Several officers who were well attached to the
catife, owing to their necrotics and thecircum
fiances of their families, were obliged to resign.
The commander in chief saw the evils which
threatened his country and the army ; he stated
them to Con<rrefs; fomeftrdng promises and apv
pearances werr ahfolutcly neccffary on the pat t
of government, or the army wouTd rut be kept
together. Thcfe were made in rUe most soli rt n
manner. Many officers and -foldte*s were re-
tained
Depreciation fli:1 conuriued—The soldier,
hungry and forlorn, wtsoW'geri to take the pa
per that was offered him by the government.
This was not in general thecaCe with the farmer;
the latter moll commonly parted will) his pro
pert*' voluntarily.
One kind of paper followed another during
the war. Each depreciated ; hut itill Congrefc.,
by repeated resolutions fin ordpr to induce the
officers ?nd foldiersto remain at their port) en
gaged that they fbould be compensated at the
end of the war.
Certificates oF different kinds were iflfued ;
and I belfevc Cotngrcft artd the whole American
world, exue&ed they were to be paid in tyfccie
as fo#»n as theie wsWltiy tjr
vernment. And I l\illthirik there is a differ
ence between their claims and thofeof the other
citizens.
At the firft feflion of Congress ander the pre
sent government, the House resolved that they
would fupportthe public credit ; ?nd Urongex
prcflions were used. This gave great confidence to
the public ; certificates were enhanced in value,
and many of them had puffed into the hands of
strangers, under the faith of government; fothat
when the funding bill pafled, nothing could be
done without the consent of the holders.
I wished exceedingly for an opportunity to
give mv aid in favor of the officers and loldiert
who had served to the end of the war.
It was a voluntaty ast in the holder to fu". *
his debt at about four per cent, and it appeais
there is a considerable saving to government out
of ihe earnings of* the officer and soldier, and
which may fairly and honorably be granted to
them.
I mean to reach this. Those who concur with
me in sentiment, to be againtfc the amend*
ment now under consideration, and assist to alter
the motion so as to embrace the objects we have
in view. f Deba't tn be comtjiiurd.)
FRIDAY, January 18.
A report on the petition of Ezekiel Scott,
in favor of the petitioner, was read, and" laid
on the table.
The following engrofled bills were read
the third time and patted, viz. A bill to con
tinue in force for a liinitted time, and to a
mend an ast providing the means of inter
course between the United States and foreign
natiori<;. A bill for determining the northern
boundary of the territory ceded to the United
States, by the state of North-Carolina ; and a
bill to regulate trade and intercourse with the
Indian tribes. i
On motion o£Mr, Pitzfimons, the resoluti
on laid on the table a few da\*s since by Mr.
Hartley, was referred to a committee of the
whole for Wed.iefday next, viz. Resolved,
that a committee be appointed to prepare and
bring in a bill, providing half pay for 7 years
to the widows and orphans of fnch officers of
the army of the United States, as have been
killed since the 3d day of June 1784, or which
may hereafter be killed in the service of tbe
United States.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to
compensate John Tucker*
Mr. Key, in the chair,
Mr. Sedgwick moved to fill the blank with
509 dollars. Mr. Tucker's petition stated
that his actual expenses in attending on
court five different times, amounted to three
hundred dollars, and that he paid nine dollars
for a leal for the circuit court of Rhode-lf
land.
The motion was opposed ; it was said that
it wouldeftablifh a dangerous precedent for
the government to pay the voluntary expens
es of an applicant for an appointment under
the United States ; and that in the present
cafe the aftnal services only ought to be com*
pen fated according to the provision made by
a fubfecjuent law. In reply it was said that it».»as taken for granted Mr. Tucker had sp
oiled for the appointment, but no evidenee ot
fhis is adduced—fevera! circumstances were
mentioned to Ihew that the contrary was the
fact and that he was called to discharge the
dutVes of the office. The question is, whe
ther he ought not to have his necelfary cx
pences incurred in attending the courts re-
509 dollars was fuperceded
by a motion for 309 dollars, which was agreed
to. The committee role and reported the
bill with this amendment, which was adopt
ed by the house, and the bill ordered to be en
rolled for a third reading. .
° In committee of the whole, Mr. Steele m
the chair. The report of a feleft Committee
on the petition of loleph Henderfon, was ta
ken into cinfideration. This rcporf proposes
-a resolution, that a yearly salary of dol
lars should be allowed to the petitioner from
August 1778, to August fB2, as pay-master
to the navy board for the Eastern Depart
ment : the question on agreeing to this refo
lutionwas put and negatived—the committee
rose and the chairman reported, that Ihe
committee do not agree to the resolution.—
After fame observations this report was dila
greed to by the house—the report of the feleft
committee then came under confide ration ;
*he blank in the resolution was filled with
100 dollars, and a bill ordered tP be brought
in. ,
A mcflage was received from the Senate by
' Mr Otis, their fecretar*, informing the house
that they have paifed a bill refpeaingt'ugitives
from justice, and perlbns whoefcape from the
service of masters, and request the concur
> trite of the house.
Adjourned till Mondny.
I, January XI,
The Bill to compensate John Tucker was re
committed to the committee which reported it.
The hill received from the Senate on Friday,
refpeding fugitives from justice, and persons
eli.api»g from the service of matters, was read
twice, £ committed for Monday next —interim
lOQ.copies to be printed.
, , a bill for the relief of sick and infirm seamen
was read twice and committed for next Monday
week. Ordered, that 100 copies be printed.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to au
thorize a loan in the notes or certificates of the
individual llates, to the amount of the balances
•which on a final settlement of accounts shall be
due to them from the U. States.
Mr. Steele in the Chair.
Thebi 1 was read by the clerk, and then dif
'en fled in paragraphs. A motion for the com
mittee to rife and report progress, was after some
deb te agree to j the object was to amend the
Ijirovifo of the second fetHon which varied from
the pip«ifo in the resolutions on which the bill
was founded. The committee rose and was dif
tharged. The bill was recommitted to the fe
ltft whiclr reported rtr; ivho Jwvinp
made the neccflbry amendment, reported the
bill to the House, which was twice read, and ta
ken up in committee of the whole immediately.
Mr Steele again in the chair. The bill was
read by the clerk as amended. Mr. Mercer mov
ved the following proviso to the firft fe&. viz.
Provided that no such note or certificate fhallbe
fubferibed by any person other than the original
owner thereof, or his legal representative or
guardian, other than an assignee, unless it lhall be
proved by the oath or affirmation of the party
presenting the lame to the loan officer to be fub
feribed, that such note or certificate was not
transferred to the person in whole name the
fublcription is made, at anytime between the
day of and the day
cf and unless it shall appear on oath or
affirmation, that the person in whose name the
notes or certificates may be fubfcrib .d, is the
realboni fide owner thereof.
After a lengthy debate, which continued till
after 3 o'clock, thecomraittcerofe, and report
ed progress. Adjourned.
TULSDA Y, Jan. 22.
Mr. B. Bourn pre&nted the petition of Jo
seph Lawrence, which was read and referred
to the Secretary of war.
A repot t was read from the Secretary of
v/aron the petition of Thomas Wifhart—laid
on the table.
Mr. Grove called up the report of a fe!e&
committee on the petition of H E. Lutterloh,
made at the last fpflT;on, which being lead,
was on motion of Mr. Grove referred to a fe-
Ject committee, to report a bill puriuant
thereto.
Mr, B. Bourn pre r ented a petition from
{he manufacturers of cordage in the town of
Providence—Hating the injurious operation
of the revenue law in respect to that article—
particularly in regard to the drawback of the
duties on foreign manufactured cordage—and
praying that said drawback may be allowed
on imported hemp, when manufactured into
cordage and exported ; or lucb other relief
as Congress may fee proper ; referred to a
feleft committee-
Mr. Wil'jamfon reported a bill to promote
co;nmeice by t'oc incjeafe of American fea
inen, which was twice read, and committed
for Tuesday fortnight.
In committee of the whole on the biH to au
thorize a loan in the notes or certificates of
the individual States, &:c. Mr. Steele in the
Chair.
Mr. ASercer's proviso was under con
sideration —Come oljeftiop being made—Mr.
Mercer otTered the proportion in a new foi in,
still prefer vinjj tt>e original object rerpefting
transfer* or fain of debate
was renewed on tbi> mctioo. The qucftion
being at length taken, the propofittbn was
p«j;atived, 32 to 38.
The second feftion b*inf, read, Mr. Sturgcs
moved an addition, which authorizes the states
refpeiHvely to prescribe tht (cverallpecict 9f
the notes or certificates which 4!ialJ be fab
fcribed to the loan*—This was agreed to.
A proviso was moved by Mr. William .on to
the following purport—That no certificate of
any state shall be conlidered as the debts of
the state which fliall not be recognized as inch
by the Icgiflature thereof, within 12 months
after the'fame (hall have been subscribed.—
Without deciding on this, the committee role
and reported progrels —and the lioufe ad
journed.
For the GAZETI f. of the UUI'l ED STATES,
To J •—s B d.
GREAT Sir, I much admire your daring
' spirit, ■[
Founded no doubt upon a world of vie) it:
For what like merit makes a man audacious ? (
Your hands so pure—your heart Jo very fimfliy
Would (bame the {antimony ot a temyle,
And make a Anch'rite appear ungracious.
You cut no f peculating capers,
You fte.-» from offices no papers,
You bribe no clcrk to break his trust,
You rob no war-worn soldier of his bounty,
Butxiding post thio' state and county,
Write on your modesl j ront B d the jujl!
The Democratic Lords of Negroes,
Who I ate in patriotic league rose,
Observing your high geniuswonder jl&jhing,
Have shaped an office to a tradbon —
In which they alk your fierceft a&ion,
As jumper to give Hamilton a thra thing ;
Nor mean their Mightmefies to stop at that,
But more to dignity your cat,
Qf W— n's bioad (boulders take your mea
sure,
And when the blood and fritters fly,
The great D~ -n men will cry,
Gods ! what a pleasure !
Philadelphia, Jan. 25..
The British ports are opened for the ad
mission of grain, and will continue open till
May next.
From North-Carolina we learn, that »he le
gislature of that ttate has lately determined, that
the F.lc&ion for Riprefeniativefi in Congress
shall be held on the second Thursday and Friday
in February next.
We also learn, that Mr. Williamfon has re
queued of his conftiuicnis in the diftrift of E
denton, that he may not he confiden d as a can
didate ar the next ele&ion, as the arrangement
of his privateafFairs requires more of his time
than he has lately been able to command, conli
dering the ftotc of his health, during the Jum
mer's recess.
ExtraO from a Cape-franch Paper (the Genera'
H - — 1 ./•11. - ,i 11 I
Monitor) ojthe 14tk Deccmbtr, 1792.
4< 111 consequence of the advices received
concerning the delay still attending the accep
tation of the draughts drawn by the adminis
tration of this colony upon Mr. Laforefl:,
Consul-General of France at Philadelphia,
Mr. Sonthtmax, Natwrttil-Grvil-Conrimflronef,
has made the following; requisition to "Mi.
Tern an, Minister of France to the United
States, and has added the molt pressing inltan
ces to induce him to take effectual measures
to prevent a further delay of the acceptation
and payment of these draughts. The Direc
tor-General of St.Domingo has written at the
fame time to Mr. La fore ft, to let him know
the real situation of the colony, and to do
away any doubts that might be entertained
of the legality of the draughts. Consequently
it may be presumed, that 111 future, the pay
ment of the draughts already drawn, or thole
that may be drawn hereafter to complete the
four millions of French livres, granted by the
Nat onal Alfembly the 26th of June lafr, upon
the debt due from the United States to the
French Nation, will meet with no kind ofob
ftacle.
In the Name of the Nation.
National CiviUCommiffion.
We, Leger —Felicite Sonthonax,
Nationaltivil (owmijjioner, delegated to the French
Leuard IJlands, there to re-cjlabhjk public order
and tranquility.
Coufidermg that the colony of St. D -
mingo y exhausted by a calamitous war, is in
ablolute necessity of the fund*, which Lb© Na
tional AlTembly has confided to the difyofition
of the Marine Department, upon the Ameri
can government, by the decrce of the 26th of
Ju'ie last.
That this decree is well understood in the
I(lands and on the Continent: That if, to put
it in execution, and to confer its beneficent
effe&s on the colony of St. Domingo, it be ne
cessary to wait for an official notification from
the Agents of France to the American Go
vernment, the colony, in the interval, may
be precipitated into the gulph that is daily
preparing for it by the negligence,or perhaps,
by the perfidy of the Ministers.
That it is the duty of the National Civil
Commiflioners, invested, by the law of the
22d of June, and by that of the 17th August
last, with the Colonial Di&atorftiip, to remedy
in virtue of their powers, the evils caused by
the culpable silence of the former agents of
the executive power of France, and, above
all, to use their utmost endeavors to prevent
the people committed to their jurifdiftion,
front fufferinft the dreadful scourge with
which they are threatened feom the want of
provisions and money.
Require Mr. Ternan, Minister of France
to the United States of America, in the name
of the French Nation, in the name of the Co
lony of St. Domingo, ready to fink under its.
own ruins, to press with efficacy his negocia
tions with the Government of the United
State*, to obtain from the said Government,
in virtue of the decree of the 26th June last,
font to him by us in the mouth of Ottober,
the completion of the four millions of French
livres, and to apply that sum to the discharge
of tl»e neceifary expences incurred in furnifh
ing provisions to the Colony of St. Domingo,
and particularly to the payment of the
271
drmghts already drawn by the administration
of the Colony for that purpole.
Making thefaid- Mr. Ternan responsible
for all the evils that may lefult from his not
extcuting this our requisition j protesting
evfn, in that cafe, to accuse him to the Na
tional Convention and to the Minister for
foreign affairs.
Given at the Cape, this 9th day of De
cember, 1791.
By the National Civil Commiflion.
Signed, SO N 1"HON AX.
O. F. DEt-PECH, Secretary to the Gonimiffion.
Richmond, Jan. 16.
yie are informed, that on Friday night last,
teftore-houre of Mefl'rs. Divers and Lind'ey
in Charlottefville, was burnt down, together
with'fix or seven other houlfesj thelofsftlf
tained has been estimated at about 60001.
The causes offpewing out of wheat, are—
Firjl—Too much moisture in the foil—and,
Secondly, Frost. The remedies are, to avoid
sowing either wet or four, or springy foils;
and to ditch, trench, or water furrow fuf
ficiently those fields the fanner fufpefts in
either of these particulars.
Manuring well, is also an important, arti*-
cle ; but when the evil has taken place, let
him not forget to roll his wheat as early in
the spring as convenient, after his fields are
dry enough to admit of Ht: This, and a good
top drefiing of ripe manure will revive and
strengthen the roots which wpuld otherwise
peri fli.
I do not enter into the reasons wherefore
the fie are the caui'es and remedies ; but give
them (imply as mv experience. An attentive
farmer will ibon perceive their iorce ; the ig
, uorant will cavil; your Gaiette could not
contain all that might be written on this fub
jeft, highly Vol thy the investigation of the
ibientific gentleman Farmer. Nat.Gai.
At a stated meeting of " the Pennsylvania
Society J'or promoting the Abolition of Sla
very—the relief of Free Negroes unlawfully
held in bondage—and the improvement of the
condition of the African race"—held on the
7th inft. the following Officers and Commit
tees were elected and appointed to serve for
the present year, viz.
Preiident— James Pemberton.
Vice-Prefidents—'Wiiliam Rogers, William
Bingham.
Treasurer —John Evans.
Secretaries—John M'Cree, Jo'eph Sanfom.
Counsellors—William Lewis, JohnD. Coxc,
John Todd, jun. Miers Filher, Joseph Tho
mas, Thomas Rofs-
Electing Committee—Thomas Harrifon,
John Warner, Joseph Budd, Joleph Shoemaker,
John Todd, Caleb Attmore, Joleph Moore,
IfaacPearfon, John Oldden, John LetcMvorth,
Benjamin Kite, James Whiteall.
' Committee of C.onefpondence.—-James
Pemberton, William Rogers, Samuel M. Fox,
Samuel P. Griffitts, John Kaighn,Jofeph San
iom, Caleb Lowiies.
At a meeting oj' the Direiiois of the Society for ejla
bl if line Vjeful Manufatlure j, held at the town of
Paterjon, on Tuesday the if of January, 1793.
Resolved,
THAT if any stockholder ihall pay the
third payment of the original subscription,
with the lawful interest thereof, from the
13th of January inft. on or before the 13th
day of next May, that no forfeiture lhaHbe
exacted from iuch perfoti or persons making
such payments.
Rcfolved, That the Governor, Mr. Watson
and Mr. Leroy, be a committee to form a
plan for a lottery to raise a pait or the whole
of the monies authorised by the Charter for
the lociety, and report the fame to this Board
at their next meeting.
Extra&Yrom the minutes.
James Griffiths, Clerk.
COMMUNICATION.
Liberty is order. It is to society the law
of its nature, and ought to afford to this ge
nerated the fr.me certainty that the next
will be fre?, that we now have in the win
ter, that the spring will cloathe the earth
with green. Instead of this order, this per*-
fiction of reason, our high-flying scribblers
who care as .little as they know about the
principles of liberty, make it consist Dot in
order, but innovation, change, anarchy—not
in calm reason, but pafiioti, emotion, and ex
travagance. They applaud a wild ranting
fury, and call it the tiiie spirit ot freedom.—
It is well this is not true. For excess cannot
last long, and liberty, initead of being fafe and
durable, would be the most uncertain thing in
the world. What paflion gives to-day, it may
deitiolilh to-morrow.—Our anti-federal scrib
blers condemn permanent laws and fvftems,
to secure liberty, property, and order for ages.
They had rather lee the government of the
people, and its most r.ccefTary infhtutions,
adapted to the pailions of the day. A wife
nation will prefer such regulations as secure
permanency. It is worthy of the cauie of
freedom, and it is expe&cd f. om this coun
try, whose example is already precedent and
authority, to Jhcw that monarchy is not more
stable, more orderly, nor more efficient, than
the Freeflt government in the world. Liberty,
by indicating health and vigor, promises long
life. • Our fcribbiers would fedtice her into
excess and debauchery, which would produce
diseases and death.
The world has been too long governed by
opinions which owe their influence to their
antiquity, more than to l heir intrinf.c justice
—That government is neceflary to the en
joyment of freedom, and all its concomitant
bielfings, must be conceded on all hand.—but
that the true interest of the governed and tlie
governors is infcparable, is a truth that man
kind have been flow to learn— though hifloij
confirms and expcrieuce is inculcating it eve
ry day.
t) Eh AT L
DEBATE is but a long fucceftort
Of*ideas riling in digression*
'Tis not ex petted that your text
Should indicate What may come next;
For inftauce* is your text abtjes y
No word in language more -amules, y
Nor fcrves for move fetceniHc uses; j
It i& a catch-\f-ord that impofcs,
()i> those who're jvoverred hy their liofe^—
It is a word of rfrongeft fcenfc^
That strikes Out meanings never sneam—
It is a Word of conjuration,
Eletterilmg all the nation—
It is a word importing mere*
Than all that lias beenfaiti before *
•And though you never state oneiativ
To (hew the rogues in thought
You need not seats to inifs your aim
And steel a patriot's hbnor'd Namet
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cfr.Uj so/i.
3 per Cents, ■ . itjia ■
Inferred, 12^4
Full shares Bank U. S. per r.cnt.pfretni
JUST PUHLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Btokfeller, at the Stont-Houp, in Seu»d
Philadelphia,
VOLUME Vltj Of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY 01 ARTS, SCIENCEJ,
MISCELLANEOUS I.ITFkAttJRF»
Oh a Plan entirely new :
Bt WHICH
The, Differ ent SCIENCES aitd ARTS
arc dig cited into the Form of Diitinli,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
COMFREHEMDING
THE Hi (lory* Theory, and Prallice, of eachj
accord ing-to the Late ft Dilcoveries ant! im
provements : and full Explanations given of the
various dctached pajts of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural and Artificial ObklVs, or id
Matters Eccl< fiaftical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, See. Including Elucidations of the tnoft im
portant Topics relative to fteHg.on,Moftaf*, : MJan*
ners, and the Oecouomv of L le : together with
a D fcription of all the Countries, Cities, pitii
cipal Mountains. Seas, Rivers, &c. throughout
the W/)rld ; a General History, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empires* Kingdoms,
and States; and an account of the Lives of the
most Eminent Pcrfons in every Nation, from the
earlielt ages.down to the present times. Com*
piled from the writings of the best authoisy in
several Languages ; the most approved D lliona
lies, as well of General Science as of particular
branches ; the Transitions, Journals, ana Me
moirs of the learned Cocieiics, both at home and
abroad—the MS. lelturcs of eminent profefTor#
on different Sciences : and a variety of original
Materials, furnilhcd by an cxtenfive Corrcfpon--
dence.
The Seventh Volume contains a deferiptiotl
of Mount £tna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Expe
rimental Philofophy,*Syfterh of Fanirry, Feudal
fyfttm, Fire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Foflils, history of France, Gardening,
Geneva, Gttfgraphy. Geometry, Gilding, Glass,
See. with a variety of articles in natural history,
biography and mifcellaniej. Illuilrated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is pi inting on a fupcifinc papery
and new types, (cast sot the pu»pofc) which
■will.be occasionally renewed bc-fote they con*
naft a woin appearance*
11. The work is furnifhed in tioafoS, in volume*
or half-volumes, as fubferihers chufe; the pi n e
ot the whole volumes, five dollars each, oi the
hall-volumes two dollars and two-thi>ds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub-'
fcribtng, the volumes or half-volumes fimfhed
to be paid for when delivered, the prire of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the puce of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver*
ing the volume prcccding it. No pm of the
work wiil be delivered unUTspatd for.
111. In the couifeof the publication will be de»
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly rngraved in Philadelphia 1 which by
far exceed jn number i-hofe given in any oth«.r
lcientific dictionary. At the close Ot the pub
lication will be deliveied an elegant trontif*
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It isexpe&cd the work will he compiifed in
about eiphtcen volumes in quarto.
(J3 Those who wish to become poflefTois of
thifcvaluable work will plcafe to be early in theic
applicat ions, is the fubfciiption it nearly closed.
J an - 23-
Insurance Company.
AT a general meeting (by adjournment) of
the lnfurance Company of North-America,
on Wednefdav the i6ih inibnt,
It was Resolved,
THAT the Instalments which, according to
the Constitution, will bccome due on the (econd
Monday of July and January next, or cither of
them, may be paid by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so paying
iuch inllalment, or instalments, (hall receive a
proportionate lhare of the Dividends thereafter
to be made, calculating such share from the firft
day of the month fuctceding luch payments re
fju&ively. Extract, from the Minutes,
EBEN. HAZARD, Scc'ry.
Philadelphia, Jan. 23.
THE Officers of the late Ncw-Je*fey line a»e
rcqucited to meet at the houl ol Jamcs
Dkake, in Ntw-Biunfwick, on Thurlday the
ftvcjiih day ol Fcbruaiy next, at the huurot 1 t*n
in the moroipg, to take into conliderction the
application of different lir.es of the laic arm-),
now bifoic the Congref> of the United States.
JOHN CUM M INC,
JONATHAN RHEA.
January tfrh, 17^3,bus. Cts. Dili. Cts.
_ _ . „ _ . „ T> D c K.r <r Oil, Ditto pr cafe »50
PRICE CURRENT. Sweet, best, in flalks.pr.box 10 jo r
»i* buantity.—Dohari ioo Cents e«ch. Ditto balkets, 12 bottles 5
PHILADELPHIA, DiCember 26. Spermaceti pr. gall. 48 ,
Train »4 27 (
Dlls. Cts. Dll>. Cti. Whaie 25 33 ,
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7 10 Porter pr. calk, 533 <
Allum, Engliih, pr.cwt. 433 London, pr.dor. 16° 1
Ditto, Roch pr.lb. 11 American ditto bot.incl. 14 >60
Allies, pot, per ton, 140 Pitch, pr. bbl 173 2
Pearl, >37 *4° 7 Pork, Burlington, per barrel, >o 67
Arrack pr. gall. 1 33 1 Lower county 1°
Brandy, common, 75 Carolina 9
Coniac 83 93 Pcas > Albany pr. bulhel 73
Braziletto, pr. ton. 3* 34 P*PP", pr.lb. M
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 , Pimento *9
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. * 2 *3 Raisins, best, pr. keg 6 33
Ditto, pilot 3 Ditto pr.jar *33
Ditto, final! water, per keg 36 4° Ditto pr. box a 33
Beer, American, in bottles, R lce p r , cwt . 3
pr.doz. b«ttlel included, 14° Ros in pr. bariel *78
Ditto pr. barrel, 4°7 R um , Jamaica, pr. gallon • 7
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 Antigua >
New England >2 14 Windward 8®
Oak 14 16 Barbadoes 87
— Merchantable pine 20 24 Country, N. E. 67
w'V r . 3 in Salt petre, pr. cwt. 14 33
Mahogany, per foot '° SalTafra, pr. ton 6 «
The above are the shallop prices. Shot ditto 140 141
for the yard price, add 1 dol- Steel, German pr.lb. 9
lar 33 cents per 1000. Engliih,bliftered, pr. cwt. 10
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. 267 American pr. ton ' '3 33
Beef, Boston, per barrel 8 Crowley's pr. faggot 10
Country ditto 6 7 Snake root pr. lb.. 20 42
Frelh, per cwt. 333 467 Soap, Brown per lb. 6
Butter pr. lb. White 8
-in kegs 10 12 Caftiie
Candles, Sperm, pr. lb. 47 Starch 7
Wax 53 Snuff pr. doi. hot. 4 6
Myrtle Wax l 3 Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 4®
Mould, tallow 12 Sailcloth,Engliih,No.i.pr. yard, 28
Dipped 11 Boston, No. I. ditto 30
Cheese, English, pr . lb. »9 jjo. jj 29
Country 8 »° Sugar Lump, pr. lb 24
Chocolate 18 20 Loaf, single refined 25
Cinnamon 240 267 Ditto, double do. 3 6
C' ovt ' '33 - Havannah, white »7 »8
Cocoa pr.cwt. 19 Ditto, brown, 11 12
Coffee pr.lb. 17 10 Muscovado, pr. cwt. 13 15
Coal pr. bulhel 24 33 SpiritsTurpentinepr. gallon 37
Copperas pr.cwt. ' 6 ? Salt, Allum pr. bulhel 44
Cordage, American, per cwt. 767 8 Liverpool 47
Cotton pr.lb. 27 37 Cadiz 33
Cuirants 12 LHbon 37
Duck, Ruflia, pr.piece 11 33 Ship build. W. O. frames p.ton, 15
Ravens 8 93 9 67 DitlO Ljve Cak l 8
Dutch fail duck, >8 20 Ditto red cedar, per foot 33 40
Feathers pr. lb. 48 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 333 367
Flax ditto it 12 Ditto 2 feet, 5 33 6
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. Ditto 3 feet, dressed, 13 15
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 5 5o Staves, Pipe pr. 1000 32
Common, 5 2 0 White Oak hoglhead, 20 33
——Bur middlings, best 4Sg Red Oak do. 19 50
Meal, Indian 3 I 0 Leogan 21 33
—ditto Rye, 3 ig Barrel 16
-— —Ship-fluff pr. cwt. 80 t $3 Heading 25 33
Fultic pr. ton, 20 Skins, Otter, best pr. piece 467
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 66 20 4°
Do. pr. gall. 8a 90 £ox, grey 40 80
Glue, pr. cwt. so 21 33 Ditto red 120
Ginger, white race, per lb. 7 ~ Jfi rtmS 1
Ditto, common 7 Filhers 33 67
Ditto, ground pr.lb. jo Bears 3
Ginseng, 20 24 Racoons 27 60
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.calk, 373 4 Mulk-rats n 20
Ditto, fine glazed 4 Beaver, pr. lb. 67 1 33
Grain, Wheat pr. bulh 1 3 Deer, in hair 20 30
Rye 60 Tar,N.Jerfcy, 24gal.p. bbl. 1
Oats 35 Carolina, 32 gall. t 33 1 67
■ Indian corn 53 Turpentine pr. bbl. 167 2
Barley 1 13 Tobacco, J. River, best toolb. 360 373
——Best shelled pr. lb. 7 —— inferior 3 33.
Buckwheat, per bulh. 40 old 4 67
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, i2O 146 67 Rappahannock 3 33
American, pr. lb. 4 s Coloured Maryland, 533 8
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 Dark, 2 40
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 11 Long-leaf 2 40
Hops i-i Eastern-shore 2 2 93
Hoglhead hoops, pr. M. 15 Carolina,new *7 3
Indigo, French per lb. ,20 i 53 Tea, Hyson pr. lb. 9, \fg
; Carolina t ,20 Hyson ™ 6
Irons, fad pr. ton, ,3333 So r uchong) " .
Iron, erfhngs pr. cwt. 3 4 ; c | 93
p" Pr - ton ' 91 Bohca, s 3 i
2 4 67 Tallow, refined, per lb. q
——Nailrods 119 !?? 33 V» b °*' '3 33 >3 67
Jank, pr. cwt. 4 5 Vetdigreafe pr. lb. 47 *3
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9 10 Ve r m i"ion, do. i 33 t67
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 533 5 67 Varnifh > per gallon 33 37
in bars 7 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 27
——white 10 10 67 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
foal, pt. lb. 61° 6 Wine, Madeira, p.. pipe, ,76 226
Lignum vitze pr. ton, 5 60 6 -r 11 12 ° 1
Logwood 5 „o Tener.ffe.pr, gallon 63
Mace pr.lb. \ 52
Mackarel, best pr.bbl. 8 rvl* **3 33
ficond quality 6 4 — D'"o in bottles, pr.doz. 4
Madder, best pr. lb. t6 20 Q , aret ~ 4 6
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 1 qq 2 67 P r, § a * 90 1 20
Mast spars ditto 33 7 Mala S a 77 80
Molafles pr.gall.
Al omtoHMtoumi.
Nails, Bd. iod.i*i. and 2oi pi.lb. ,o °" London « at 3° days, per £ .100 fterl. 444 67
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 at 60 days 440
—————— at 90 nays 4?7 67
Oil, Linseed, pr. gall. 63 Amsterdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, iq
° llvc ' 8 7 l go days, 3^
PRICE CURRENT.
rift lUAHTiii.—Do(.i*n 100 Ccnu «ch.
PHILADELPHIA, DlCembek 26.
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-ilreet, Niw-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfell
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE 01
STOCKS ON COMMISSION, Begs leave 10 offe.
his services to hisfriends and others, in the lim
of a Stotk Broker. Those who may please to fa
»or him with their business, may depend upon
having ittranfafted withthe utmost fidelity and ;
dispatch.
Orders frortj Philadelphia,Boftoo, or any othei
part of the United States will be ftriQly attend
ed to.
<«.g
LEONARD BLEECKER
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON &SOUCHONG,
Of the very firft quality, and latest importation
from Canton, *ia New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third,between Chcfnut and Market Streets.
N. B. A few Boxes of the above HYSON forfait.
C 3" Thepueof this Gazette is Three Dollars
/cribing'" "" " me °ff ub -
272
Federal City.
T'HE Subscriber will convey forever, by
A good and fnfficient deed, Thirty Lots in
the City of Washington, situated on South
Capitol Street, to any man or company of
men—provided they will agree to erert there-
Oil good and fufficient brick houses, within
three years from tlie date hereof.
DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington.
City oj H'ajhhgton, Dec. 31, 179 2 - 61
BANK OF THE UNITED STJTES.
RISOL VID,
rT-l[i AT the Calbier be authoriCrd to receive
A from the propiietor of any number of tom
pleat {hares, such Certificates, not in his own
name, as. he, may be the proprietor of; and after
cancelling the fame, to ilfue a new Certificate or
Certificates in lieu thireof, in the name of such
proprietor.
Resolved, That in all future transfers or
compleat (hares in the capital Hock of the Bank,
the Certificates of the lhares transferred be can
celled, and a new Certificate or Certificates be
issued in the name of the transferee or purchaser.
Resolved, That the Certificates in future
ifTued, be foi one or more (hares, as the pro
prietor may request; and the new Certificate or
Certificates (hall be of correspondent numbers
with those in lieu of which thev arc issued.
e P3 w JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Phi ladelphi a, January 7, 2793*
NOTICE is hereby given, that there will be
paid at the Bank, after the 17th instant, to
the Stockholders or their Representatives duly
authorized, the following funis, being the Divi
dend declared for the last fix months, viz.
For each (hare bearing dividend from the ift
of July, Sixteen Dollars.
For each share bearing dividend from the ift
of August, Fifteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
For each (bare bearing dividend from the ift
of September, Fourteen Dollars, 67 Cents.
For each (bare bearing dividend trom the ift
of O&ober, Fourteen Dollars.
For each share bearing dividend from the ift
of November, Thirteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
For each share bearing dividend Irom the 1(I
of December, Twelve Dollars, 67 Cents.
For each three-quarter share, Twelve Dollars.
By order of the President and Directors,
3 w JOHN KF.AN, Cashier.
50 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 25th instant, a likely Ne
gro Man called Isaac, about twenty-three
years oid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made fellow, fond of talking, has a large
mouth, and his teeth very much when
talking ; had on when he went away, a brown
linen shirt, a (hort white kersey over jacket with
a very high collar and plain breast, with buttons
which appear lo have been very gay ; a pair of
white kersey breeches, a pair of white knit yarn
stockings, a pair of shoes with firings in them,
and a hat ; all ihc above clothes are al
ipoft new. Said Negro was fprmerly the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas, late of Kent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, de
ceased, and has for several years been employed
in that neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by Messrs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, which business he is
well acquainted with, and is what he prefers ;
and has been engaged in driving a waggon from
said Cross-Roads to Duck-Creek, &c. until
August last. I expect he will make his way for
the neighbourhoods of George-Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will be paid if delivered to me in this
place, or Thirty Dollars if secured in any goal,
so that I get him again. He is an artful fellow,
and when taken, will make his escape, unless
particularly secured.
Easton, OWEN KENNARD,
Talbot County, Mary/and, Dec. 28, 1792. 201
Philadelphia, January g, 1793-
Mathew Carey
Refpe&fully informs the Citizens of the United
States, that the Maps for his intended
edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving—and as soon as a fufficient
number of them are finilhed, to secure a re
gular supply during the publication, which
will probably be early next Spring, the work
will be put to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpe&able number of Subscribers, who have
come forward thus early to patronize this ardu
ous undertaking. He assures them and the pub
lic in general, that no pains or expenle (hall be
spared in the execution nf the work.
Terms of the Work :
I. IT lhallbe publilhed in 48weeklynumhers,
each containing three (heels, or twenty-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with
new types on fine papei,
11. In the courfeof the work will be deliver,
cd about thirty large maps, of the fame fizc as
those in the European editions, viz. moil of them
(heet maps on potl paper.
(£3f Besides the maps in the Britifii editions, this
work will contain nine or ten American State, Mats.
Til. The price of each number will be a
quarter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
&T No advance required.
IV. Subscribers who difapproveol the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbeis, are
to be at liberty to return them, and (hall have
their money repaid.
V. The subscribers' nrars (hall be prefixed
as patrons of ihc undertaking.
V Subfcriptiom received in Philadelphia by
K e u nt t"r n d pub,inirr: in New-York, by all
the bookfelle.s; in New-Haven, by Mr. Beers;
in Hartford b>-Mr. Patten; in Bollon, bv M< ir.
Thomas & Andrews, and bv Mr. Well; in Bal
t.more, by Mr R,r P; j n Richmond, b v Mr.
5 L Cy I,n charlt,ft '>n, by Mr. W. P. Youne
Sii? ,S
(lawtl)
To the Public.
r |~ , HE Subfcribcrs having been appointed >
X committee of the Board of the Truflccs of
the University of North-Carolina, for the pur
pose of receiving propdlals from such gcntlemeu
as may intend to undertake the titftrudion of
youth in that institution. take the opportunity
of making known to the public their wi(h that
such gentlemen (hould (igmfy their inclination
to the lubfcribers.
Tbe objeQs to which it is contemplated hr
the Board to turn the attention ol the stud n:s
on the firft cftablifhmtnt, are—The ftadv of
Languages, particularly the
ancient and modern—the Bnlc-ieitrra—Loflic
and Mori! —the frnomU.Ay ftl)t
Mathematics and Natural Philolophy— Agricul
ture and Botany, with the principles of An.ln
tcfture.
Gentlemen convcrfant in theft branch;* of
Science aud Literature, and who can be well re
commended, will receive veiv handlome encou
ragement by the Bo<»rd. Ttie exeicifes ol the
institution will commence as early as poflible
after the completion of the buildings ol the Uui-
Verfity, which are to be contracted tor immedi
ately. SAMUEL ASHE,
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAVE,
DAVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLES.
D 25 ep2m
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or bet ween Providence
and Boston, a very small TRUNK, covered
with seal-skin of a reddish colour, with white
spots. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Carolina State Notes, and a few of the
Slate of Rhode-Island ; with other papers,which
can only be ferriceable to the proprietor. The
State notes are ch?eked at the often from whence
they ilTued. Anv_perfon pro#fr<Sn>% T+urrfc
(with tts contents) to JOHN MARSTON, oi
Boston, WILI.IAM HALL, oi Providence,
MeflVs. PATERSON and BRASHER, New-
York, cr Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, (hall receive the above reward, or for «by
part of the property, One Hundred Dollaft f
Boston, Nov. 28
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR S%le, a beautiful situation on the Po»
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexancina
and in a line of diredtion towards the Federal
City and George Town,in full view of each place,
commanding a profpett of the river and adjacent
country of Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Laud *
reflly on the river, will be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-dory framed
d welling-houfe, neatly finilhed, a kitchen, office,
brick smoke-house and dairy, two-story framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ice
house, a yard and garden, neatly raiied and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
ceftary improvements ; the whole of the l*ntl
enclosed with posts and rails, tenor fifteen acres
r laid down, with different kinds of Its
contiguity to those three towns mull lender it an
object worthy the attention of any person who
withes to invest money in a property that mull
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in
creafc of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central situation to each place. The Potowmacfc
at this spot has a fine deep shore and harbour,
capable of receiving veifels of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be erected here to the Citv of
Washington and the Maryland shores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.— Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which will suit well to supply the above in
wood and timber. The title may be seen to the
above property, which is indisputable, and terms
koown by application to the fubferiber, living
on the premises.
December 12 th, 1795.
TO BE SOLD,
That well-known Place, called
South-Point,
LYING at the end of Sinipuxent Neck, ori
the Eastern Shore of Maryland, within two
miles of the Inlet, in Worcester County, in the
said State, being the full landing for vefleis that
trade in there. From the (iiuation of the place,
it is convenient for fifti, clams and oyftcis, is
open to the fra, and has every convenicncy ili»&
could be wish d for. The foil is excellent for
Indian com, wheat or flax, is natural to clover,
and has a good marsh pasture for stock.
Any peilon defirousof purchafma, may know
the terms by applying to Asflieton Humphreys, Esq.
in Philadelphia— Mr. Benjamin Purnell,in Indian
Town, Worcester County—or to Capt. Liitleton
Robins, near the place.
Jan. 2
BOWEN's EXHIBITIONS OF
W ax- VV ork &Paintings,
ARE open every day and evening (Sundays
excepted) at the House lately occupied
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eighth-street.
First Roof/j—Contains, upwarth- of
elegant Paintings, and about 30 Wax Figures,
in full stature—among which are Likeneiles
ot a number of the principal cbara&ers in
America; Baron Trenck in chains, an Indian
Chief, and several beautiful young Ladies of
different States, dlc.&c.
Second Room—Contains eighteen large
Wax Figures, which form a Sociable Club,
or the Oyster Supper ; and the School for
Scandal, conlifting of twelve female Figures,
making their observations on % young Lady,
who had eloped with a Footman.
Admittance Out Quarter of a Dollar each
Room.
This Gazette is pabiifhed in North Fifth-Street t
No, 34, between High ana Mulberry Studs—where
the Editor now refiaes.
eptf.
BALDWIN DADE.
ep 2 m