A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHII A DEL Phi A
[No. 74 of Vol. IV.]
Ph it ab i ttH 1 A', January g, 1793.
Mathew Carey
fcefpe&fully informs the Citizens of the Untied
Siqtes, t|»aC the Maps for hit intended
edition of
Guthrie's Geography
improved,
.Arenow engraving—»nd »» soon as a fufiieierH
Dumber of them «re finilhed, to feeure a rr-
gulor fupplv during the publication, which
will probably be early next Spring, the work
•will be put to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpefla'ble number of Subscribers, who have
come forward thus early to patronize this ardu
ous undertaking. He assures them arid the pub
lic in general, that no pains or expenlc Ihall be
spared in the execution of the work.
Terms of the Work ;
I. IT (hall be publilhed in 48 weekly nutiibers,
«JcK containing thiee {beets, or iweniy-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, ptinted witb
new typts on fine paper.
11. la the coutfeof the work will bedeliver
ed about thirty large maps, of the fame size aj
Ihofe in the European editions, vi*. molt ol thetnr
sheet maps on post paper.
$5" Besides the maps in the Britijh editions, this
work will contain nine or ten American &t&te Maps.
111. The price of each number will be a
quarter dollar, to be paid 011 delivery.
j}3" No advance required.
IV. Subscribers who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbcis, are
to be at liberty to return them, and shall have
iheir money repaid.
V. The fubfenbers' names (hall be prefixed
4s patrons of the undertaking.
%* Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publisher; in New-York, by all
the booksellers; in New-Haven, by Mi. Beeis;
in Hariford, by Mr. Patten; in Boston.by Miff.
Thomas & Andrews, and by Mr. Well; in Bal
iitnoic, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond, by Mr.
J. Carey; in Charlellon, by Mr. W. P. Young,
and by sundry other persons throughout the
United Slates. (lawtf)
JUST PUS I IS H ED,
By William Young,
BOOKSEI, LSI,
Nd. jt, in Sicthd, (hi corner if I'hefliul-Strcett
In' t#o otfavo volumes, neatly botJnd,
(Price Totlit Dolla»<)
ESSAYS
O* "JHE
INTELLECTUAL and All IVE POWERS ff
6y Thomas Reid.d.d. t.R.s. Edinburgh.
yroleffbr ol Moial Phil >sophy in the Uuiverfity
of GUfgow.
IT would be improper for ihe publisher to
mention any thing reCpedog the literary ta
lents of an author, so generally known and
♦tleemed. Nov does I*. appear nere(T<iry to re-
Mtten'ion to peruse a work, whose import
ance is universally acknowledged. Thofewho
bave read the ancient fyltems Jiid tliefe volumtr,
ivill readily perceive, ihjt the knowledge ot
■yhilofophy, advances from a ttaie of infancy,
*owards maturity ; nor will ii appear too much,
■when it is said, that D ; . Rcid hasdivefted moral
icience trom that veil under which to« so many
<3gts, it has b>eti concealed, by ambiguous word's
itfid the jargon of the (chbols. Thus he hasafted
that friendly part to moral science, which the
ingenious Newton and Fergufou did to natuial
JJhtldfophy \ their united and Poltul efforts, ren
der phiiofoohy iSot only an ul-fuW but a pi *afant
rXercife, and a more fate iutrodutftion to the
inott important ftudirs. — It is impracticable ro
iofert the lengthy retiews ot this woik, and to
give a p«rt, would be unfriendly to the authof
Md reviewer*.
ALSO,
Neatly bound, in two volumeso&avo,
Price one and a half Dollar,
A COMMENTARY
ON THE
BOOK ok PSALMS.
IN which their literal or fultorieal sense, as
they relate to King David, and the Pcofrtt of
ifrael-, is llfufirated, and their application to
Meftidh, to the Church, audio individuals, as
mt rube is thereof, is pointed o«it ; with a view
to render the use of the Psalter pleating ahd pro*
Stable (o all orders and degree* of Chnftian*.
The jirjl Anur\can EdUtimJrom Out $th Britifn.
By Gkokcb, Lord fiiHiop of Norwich, and
Prcfident of Magdalen College, Oxford.
ZIMMERMANNo,, SOLITUDE,
Price 7-8 Dollar.
SCOTT'S FORCE'Of TRUTH,
Pncc, bound and lei*cred, 44-109 D&!Ur.
J*Ji come to hand,
DA VIES* SERMONS,
Complete m 3 volumes octavo,
P'icc, bound, 5 25-100 Dollar,
[an 26.
7he price of this Gazette is Three Dollars
fir annum—Qtrt MJ is be pdii Mi iM U*c q/ fub
jbribing.
Wednesday, February 13. 1793.
PHILADELPHIA.
AT a meeting of the President &. Direflors
of the Bank of the United States, held on
Friday the Jt'h February, ) 793, the following
named Gentlemen were eletted Directors of
the different OiSres of Discount and Deposit,
and to take their feats on the firft Monday in
March next, to wit.
In Boston,
Thomas Ruffe!/ John 0< Jones Theodore Lyman
Chriftoplier Gore jof Rujje/l.jun. *SamuelS.jifJ/ury
jof pk Barrell (aic/> Davit * Henry Hill
David Sears John Lowell *&am. Parkman
J. Codman,jun.
la NEW-YO<IC.
Rich, llirrifm Tho. Buchdnin *Mofe! Rogets
Geratd Bt/HAef Tlwrrtai Pttirfoll * W'rb. Shedden
Nich. Hojfm* Jdhn OeUfttld *A L. Alerktr
PHI. Livhgftffi Malt. L far ybit David Gtlfien
Wilhem laijjJit
In Baltimore,
George Gale J. Holms, jun. * Jof.ThoMurgh
David Stewart Nicholas S/iJiy * And. Ruchanan
Stephen Witjon Adrian Valck jcAn sentff
Arch, tamttiell *J. P. Pleafanii Iho' o. Sriith
Weft
In CftAit tESf o»i,
Dan. Defddffure Adam TutinO * Aaron Locock
Math. Rujfell D.ivid Rath/if *f.dw. Varrell
* Johh Woodrip Johri f Grimke Adaln Gihhrijl
Thcrhas Morris Rob. Hazlehurjl Am. Vanderhotji
Eiw. RitUdgc
The names marked thru* * are new mem
bers, and faccectf the proportion appointed by
the President and Di; evtors of tUc Bank of the
United Stats» to be left oot at every annual
Ast ion.
For the GAZETTE, of flit VNIfED STATES.
Mr. FeNKO,
OLD age ha< i peculiar clairtl on Ibe r<<verrm-e
of mankind. Tis natural when we fee or
hear of 1 peifoli finkifljj in deep declining years,
and supporting at the fame time the molt extra-*
ordinary vigoi and a&ivity of body and mind,
to enquire the means and other concurrent cir.
cunilUnces, how it were poffiHe to reach a pe
riod so long in life—fo protra&ed beyond the
usual span of exiftencr.
Such an anticn: man while living, among
friends and old inhabitants of the country, is
conlidertd as a perfefl pjragon and prodigy of
his own sex. And wheo the invincible Death,
who comes to all, (Viall at length beset him,
there is more than anxiety with farviving tela
tivesand friends, to embalm his remembrance—
to endow it with freth laurels—and place it fe.
cuie and sale, on the ilever-rufting files of gra
titude and fame!
The idea of detestation from fuccecding gene
rations, is dreadful in the extreme. And on the
othci hand, what is more amiable than to be
prailed and beloved, while their are men and
letters in the world. Next to the Godhead it
ielf, is the reputation and condition of a good
man —the next in dignity, and next in vaiuc.—
He indted is deftrving of, and as surely obtains
our waritieft acji-upwledginertts! 'Tis the tri
bute of affrttioii juftlv due hts manes!
And as long as we think of the good, the an
tient and the meritorious, and look for their
faithful record in the page of story, one cannot
help regarding and even adoring the various in
venti'.ns the poiile ans have fuggeft-d, toeffeftu
ate so noble and delirible a purpose
Much indebicd ite wc indeed to the refined
mi m general tor their aid and altlftance in thta
line. And without difparagip/; any fpeeiei of
th.ra, atlo<r me t« drink, there it none more
"> impartial fancy, than the pleat
ing an nt Wur-li urk. Hrre, as in x mitror, we
fee ma* <1* ills natural and best appearance and
»une, emirulv diverted of those ornamental
trafppinp, which, like glnflea in a flulful hand,
are butt®»»Btto flatter, if ii'Jt mislead, the hu
man eye. We there behold our beloved friend
or acquaintance nearly in the fame ininner in
which we oucefonverfed or familiarized w*th
him. S.ilick with the (n«j-ftic scene, who can
then refufi hisdlmirationoi !uch .eprofenutioij
vt ar and
Take out a vic» of the rcVpeSive perf>m»'-s
in this favored.: Undone in Wax,in Mr. JWta'i
Exhibition Room, in Bth Itieet, you mere fee
the rrprefinunonaof the Brave, ihu G'Jod, the
Leautilol, <he N'»bte, and the just ! You view,
with >ut refttaioi, the Hod natural figures of the
bell and gertu that adorn the wellern
hemisphere !
in thtt ex.enfive colle&ion, you may fee a
ftoiit the r«rtl, a tlrong, full, exalt likcucfs of the
old Mr. Hutton, lately deccaied—one of the
longclt livers in this country. He 19 (herefixed
m W«x t wuh hia iilver h«ms, his tobacco-box,
pipes, and ufuai vestments, and in a situation
reicmbtifig hte •tfeit. So engaging it the figure —
Hiitfcat demand* obfcivalion J I am fold
he reached r.o ve»r»—a truiy venerable age for
any man 111 ui» or any country. Lot iliaogera
boast of the temperature and health inrtii of their
ownclimatts, orol the length of years of mor
tals and welcome, ihia initance affords a demon
itracion highly favorable to our own. May his
and every g*>ort old man's memory be preferred
in the bofoni ol wax-wo'k, or other fatufattor)'
reeittriet. from the corroding hand of time.
A PENNSYLVANIA*.
-293-
CONGRESS.
HOUSE. OF REPKF.SENrATIVES.
Monday, January 28.
The Bill to authorize a Loan in the Notes
or Certificates of the fever a! States which,
on a final Settlement of Accounts Jhall have
a Balance due to them frout the United
States—having been read the third time—
the Shtejlion, (hall the Bill pass ? tuas
put by tie Speaker:
(continued.)
Mr. Madlfon remarked, that an amendment
now incorporated in the bill ha« changed its prin
ciple altogether—it was contemplated by the o
riginal bill to provide for debts incurred only
for the support of the war; but by this amend
ment, debtsare to befubferibed to the loan which
were created subsequent to the period in which
those debts originated that have been hitherto
called debts of the United States.
Another amendment has been added, which
postpones the fubfeription to a period l'o diilast
as to anticipate the proper business of a subse
quent legislature, which will be more compe
tent to decide upon it than this house is
The gentleman who brought forward this
motion, afiigned as a reason, that by this poft
poneraent the Senate would have a controul over
the business, which they would not have with
out palling the bill, and with this amendment.
Mr. Madilon reprobated the idea of controuling
the deliberations of a subsequent legilUture. He
said the ground of the bill was changed. The
poftponenjent of the fubferiptions renders it en
tirely unnecessary for the present Congress to
decide upon it; —he was in favour therefore of
postponing it—and of the previous question.
Mr. Gerry said he did not exped this opposition
to the bill, at this stage of the business; especially
from gentlemen who had advocated the very
principle on which thi bill is founded, viz. a
provifiou tor the balances which ihall be found
due on a final settlement of the accounts.
The motion for the previous rueftion is foun
ded on the remonstrance of the State of Virgi
rtaf —a state which justly has the reputation of
hieing wife in her councils and decisions; but on
the present occasion s single and alone in her con
duit in regard to this business. No other state
has come forward with fucha remonfirance—a
remonstrance against the a£t and doings of the
the branches of the national legislature. He
concluded therefore, that in this instance at least,
that state is inan error; especially as the grounds
of her complaints have been obviated. He then
adverted to the general provisions of the bill, and
Clewed that they were perfectly confonint to
the existing provisions made by former acts of
the government the balances which
(hall appear to be due to the several Hates. He
alluded next to the several provisos and amend
ments of the bill which had bee i ingraftsd in it,
to accommodate it to the wisheS oi those who,
notwithstanding, appeared to be as much oppos
ed to it as ever. He was really surprised and
confounded at the conduit of gentlemen in the
opposition. He notictd briefly i..e justice of the
claims of the creditors, and concluded by ob
fcrving, that there were already fuSkient diffi
culties to emburrafs the operations of this go
vernment; and he conceived that the oppofit.on
to meafurcs calculated to doing justice in this
particular cai'c, were calculated ta increase those
difficulties and embarrafi'ments.
Mr. Amen reprobated the idea of putting the
previous qucftion; after a difcuflion of three
weeks, it is now proposed to prevent a decision
of the fnbjeft; he con fide red this as a very un
fair and uhjuftifiable mode of procedure—such
»n one as the gentlemen in oppouticm to the bill
on more mature reflection would not themfelvei
juftify. He then noticed the scope of the argu
ments offered in support of the previous quefti
-011, and urged a variety of confederations to (hew
that the present was the moll lavourable time to
decide the question. He deprecated the coiife
qnences of a postponement, it would be e'onfi
dered as a denial of justice on the part of the
present legiilature, and as placing the creditors
in the mod uncertain lituation as to their luture
fate; in (hort he conceived it was such an evasi
on ot' justice i* might pst the country in a
Same.
Mr. Giles replied to Mr. Ames ; he coucciV
ed the consequence* would be dire&lv re
verse from thole he had anticipated; bethought
thole who v'ere to be benefited, who were com
paratively but a l'raall number, woukl not put
the country in a flame; the danger was that
those whe would faffer by the burthens which
would result fro.r. the meafure.wooldbe thrown
into a flame. He then entered into a general
conlideration of the fubjeii, and urged avariety
of reasons againf* the bill, and in favour of put
ting the previous question. Mr. Giles enlarged
on the impropi Hty of precipitating the business
the present ftilion.
f Mr. l»age hadcaliedfor the reading of the pro
ceedings of the lcgiflature of the ltate of Virgi
nia relative to the funding fvllem, particularly
the aflYimption of die Hate debti. 1 hefe pro
ceeding! were accordingly read.
[Whole No. 596.]
Mr. White said he hadlkft feffomvottdaguinfr
the bill for affnminy the state debts, but he
should vote for the bril now under confidatatiottj
in this he thought! fie wm jrfrfr&lj canliflent,
that t ere was a radical difference between thte
two ; the former wis* proposition for afTumirg
all the debts of *11 the Il»tei, the fame wh 1. it
had been orijrfoially propcrfed at New-York, and
which he had uniformly opposed. The present
is only for afluniing to the amount of the halaW
ces which may be due to creditor Hates; this he
always approved. He said he had heard but one
mrgument agninft the propriety of coming to an
immediate decision which appeared to have any
weight—that was the unequal and imperfedt re
presentation j this, he said, was a circumstance
which he felt as fenlibly as any member of the
house, and if the proportion was to impose bur
dens oq the people, or to change an eltabliihcd
system.he Oiould hesitate before he agreed to its
but neither of those was the present cafe —no
additional funis were to be raised by the bill, and
no change ntade in the mode of payment of the
balances without the approbation ol the slates to
which (hey may be. due.
Having thus obviated this objection, he said,
he would give the reasons which induced him
to believe the matter ought now to be decided j
he observed, that perhaps it might have been
well had the bafinels not been brought forward,
con fide ring the oppofitioir which had taken place j
hedidnot,however,cenfure the gentleman who
introduced it, that gentleman had, as well a*
hinifelf, been acquainted with the proceeding#
refpe&ing the assumption fiom the commence*
meat. And he declared he did not expeit, when
the refolutiom were laid »n the table, that an
objection would be made to them; and it was
probable as little apprehenfiaa was entertained
by the mover ef the resolutions; but he thought
the manner in which the bill had been op
posed, asd in which it had been fuppor.ed re
quired an immediate deCilion. It had been
made the criterion of the public faith of the go
vernment , and of the lidelity ofitsofficers. Those
who were in iavour of the biil alledged as one
reason in fuppor: of it, that when the balances
were known, the dubtor Hates would not agree
to make provision for those balances agreeably
to the existing law. He believed that this fuj«
gellion was unfounded i he did not believe it was
pollible that any man, wlxom the confidence of
his fellow citizens ihould place on this fluor,
would everYefufe to carry that law into effect.
He conlidered it as one of the pillars of the con
flitution—A folcmn compact; between the Unit
ed States and individual ftatcs; and he believed|
if ever this government (Hould be guilty of so
grofsa breach of farth in a matter of importance
fufficient toattraii thegeneral notice of theciti
iens, that there was an end to the government
itfelt:. It was a government foundedon opinion.
And when the opinion of the people tealed to
support it the government must fall. On the
other hand, the bill had not been opposed oil its
merits. No gentleman hadat.empted to point
out the individual or the difcriptioa of men wl.*
would be injured by die operation of the bill ;
they had opposed it wholly on collateral circum
stances; they had luppofed that if the ilates who
had debts due totheir citizens Ihould have their
balances discharged byaffuming those debts, that
they would oppoJc the payment of the balance*
to dates «4iicli have no creditors. It had like
wise been alledged, -hat thj Commiflionos for
fettling accounts might conduit themfelres i«
such a manner as to render a legislative inter
position necessary to fcrrelt the mesfurei conse
quential of the settlement. He had 110 appre
hension of such conduit on the part of the Com
iniffioners, and could not legislate on a liippoii
tioh that they would eondud thcmfelve* in a
manner so very improper, but if they did, he
could not fee that the change in the payment of
the balances could have any effcit, if the legisla
ture could interfere where ftatcs were concerned,
they might do the fame in the cafe of individu
als; but at jealousies had taken place in the
minds of the members, and at both fides ol thf
house seemed to consider the palling thi> bill a»
giving a greater foice and liability to the adt
for fettling the accounts betw en the U. Statet,
and individual ftatet, it was a strong reason with
him to gire his assent to it. It had been said the
palling the bill by so fhiall a majority would 0.-
cafion discontent and uneasiness among the peo
ple. This might be the cafe, but the lame rta
fon is equally applicable to a rejection of the bill
by a ftnall majority. Hut who are molt likely
to be diflktisfied ! Thole who by a rejection of
the bill would feel themlelves injured, at least
difapptinted in their expectations of advantage 1
or those Who, notwithstanding itt palfage, would
lie left in their present eondition i he believed
the former, so that at far as that argument had
any weight it was in favour of the bill.
Mr. Murray was in favor of the previousquef*
tion—he tho't the present stage of the bufineC#
vfat the moll proper to call tor that question)
it would he f*i<i, have been justly exceptional
blc had the question been called previous to de
bate ; but now itwai ftriaiy proper) adverting
to the merit* of the bill; he objected to it at an
i.ifr»aion of the funding fyUem—that fyOem
provides for funding the balance! in favor of the
States, not the individual creiitoru—On ti*principle he conftdered the bill a* eftablnWg R
dangerous precedent, and as affording a P rtt f xt
for future mfradions and mutilations of that
system. .
Mr. Murray adverting to certain observations
which had been thrown out refpeaing the: un
easiness which was said to exist in fnmc of the
states, informed the house, that with refpeft to
the flat* he had the honor to represent the
greatefl apparent Satisfaction with the measures
of the general government prevailed. It I* true,
said he,my conllituents feel the pressure of taxes
in common with the reft of their fellow citizens,
but they discover no disposition to complain—
they consider the public burthens as the price ot
their liberties and independence; and undtr
this idea, submit to them with the utmost cheer
fulnefs, at the fame time confiding in the wildom
and justice of the government, that their im
positions will b« regulated according to theex.
igencies of the nation, and that no unneceflary
taxes will ever be laid. '
He tho't it necessary to fay thus much, as he
conceived too high colouring had been given to
some representations which the fancy of mem
bers had brought forward in their zealous op
polition to the bill.
THURSDAY, FIB*ITA»T 7.
A mefTage from the Senate, by Mr. Otis tlieir
Secretary, informed the House that they have
concurred in the resolution for a joint commit
tee to count the ballot! returned by the execu
tives of the several States for President and Vice
President of the United States, and have appoint
ed Mcflrs. King, Izard, and Strong.
A memorial of Gideon Brownfon and a petition
of Fitlder V i6tor, were read, praying compen
sation for military services. Referred to the S
ecretary of War.
Mr. Clark laid the fo'.Wing resolution on the
table viz —That a committee be appointed to
prepare and rftiblilha bill to regulate fees in the
Office of the Treasury for the transfer ot public
feeurities.
Mr. B. Bourn brought in a report on the me
morials of sundry persons concerned in the man
tifa&ure of cordage, lines, twines and packthread
This report was in favor of the memorialists,
and was referred to a committee of the whole
for to-morrow.
In "committee of the whole, on the bill pro
viding cosnpenfation for the President and Vice
President of thfc United States—Mr. Dayton in
the chair. The bill being read, was difcufled in
paragraphs; some verbal amendments were s
grecd to. The firft blank, referring to the Pre
sident's compehfation, was filled with 2j,000
dollars.
Mr. Kitchell moved to strike but " dollars
per annum," referring to'the compensation of
the Viee-Prefident, in order to insert dollars
per day during his attendance in the Senates-
Some remarks being offered in opposition to the
motion, it was withdrawn.
The blank for the compensation of the Vice-
President was filled with 5000 dollars.
A motion to limit the afl to the term of four
years was negatived. This motion was made by
Mr. Kitchell.
The committee rose and reported the bill
with amendments, which were taken into con
sideration by the House and agreed to.
Mr. Mercer renewed the motion for limiting
the bill to four years from tho 3d day of March,
and moved the ayes and noes.
Mr. Mercer supported the motion by some re
marks on the impropriety of the present Con
gress anticipating the proper business of their
successors; on the dangerous precedent which
would be established by empowering the su
preme executive to continue hisfalary in oppo
sition to the opinion of the legislature. He con
sidered the bill without this clause as unconsti
tutional.
Considerable debate took place on this mo
tion, and the ayes and noes being at length call
ed, was determined in the negative, ayes 27
toes 33, the ayes anil noes being as follow
A r £ s.
Mess. Macon,
Madison,
Mercer
Mefl". Alhe,
Baldwin,
Clark,
Findley,
Giles,
Gordon,
Grcrc.
Griffin,
©rove,
Hartley,
Heifter,
Jacobs,
Kitchell,
Lee,
t) 0 X S.
MefT. Ames,
Barnwell,
Benfop,
Boudinot,
S. Bourne,
Bourn,
Dayton,
Fitzfimons,
Gerry,
Gilman,
Goodhue,
Hillhoul'e,
Huger,
Key, ,
Lawrance,
Learned,
Livermore,
The following bills were read twice and com
mittcd for to-morrow:
A bill to refund to Jacob Bell, certain duties
#n pickled fifh.
A bill for the remiflion <ff the duty on a quan
tity of wine, the property of W. and J. Simms.
A bill for the relief of Simeon Thayer.
Mr. Moore, of the committee upon enrolled
bills, reported that the two bills signed yefter
ifciy by the Speaker were this day laid before the
President of the United States for his approba
tion, ano (ignaturc.
A report on the petition of Robert Eden, was
taken into consideration, agreed to, and a com
mittee appointed to report a bill.
The report on a petition of the inhabitants of
Newark was taken up in committee of the
whole—Mr. Murray in the chair. The report
was read, and iein favor of the petitioners, who
pray for compensation for an acadumy destroyed
during the late war.
A motion was made that the committee should
agree to the report. After some debate the ques
tion being put, the motion was negatived. The
committee rose and reported accordingly, and
the house adjourned.
FRIDAY, February 8.
A bitl for the relief of Elijah Boltwick, was
read twice, and committed for Monday ivxt.
A bill providing coaipenfatiori to the Presi
dent and Vice-President of the United States,
was >ead the third time and palled.
Mr. Boudtnot presented the petition of John
Gtecn, which was read.
A memorial was presented bv Mr. Sumpter,
from the officers of the South-Carolina line of
the late army—flmtlar 10 those from the officers
of other states—read, and laid on the table.
A number of reports on petitions from the
Secr.tsry of War, were read, and ordered to be
printed. . • • r
On motion, the committee on the petition ot
John Rogers was difrharged, and the petition
referred to ihe Secretary of Slate.
In committee of llie whole, on the bill for
granting lialf pay for years, to the widows
and orphans of those officers of the army which
bsve been killed fincc the day of or who
(hall hereafter be killed in the service of the
United States. Mr. Dayton in the chair.
The bill.being read, Mr. Hartley moved to fill
the blank wit,h the 4 '.h day of March, i 789.
Williatiifon moved to flrike out the
wrrds " of the army," and infill, in the service.
This'motion was agreed to.
Mr. Hartley's motion was then put and ear
tied. The blank referring to the term of half
p,,v. was filled with Jive yean.—lt was moved to
add after "officers," non-commijfimed officers and
privates After some debate, this motion was
agreed to.
Another motion was made and carried, to ex
tend the provision to the officers, non-coinmif
fioned officers and privates ot the militia. Se
veral other amendments were agreed to, and
then the committee rose and repottcif the bill as
amended—Laid on the table.
Mr. Clark's motion for a committee to pre-
pate and bring in a biil to rllablifli fees in the
Treasury Department, for ihe transfer of public
fecuritiet, was taken up. agreed to, and a com
mittee appointed to report a b I!.
Mr. Parker presented a memorial from the
metchantsand inhabitants of the town of Nor
folk, refpefling the encrrafe of infirm and dis
abled lea men, and praying that some provilion
may be made in the cafe. Read, and referred
to the committee of the whole on the bill mak
ing provifion.for sick ipd infirm seamen.
Mr. W. Smith gave notice that he (hould call
the attention of the house to the fubjeft of mak
ing provision for the reduction of the public debt,
on Monday next.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to re-
Mit the duties on a quantity of wine, the pro
perty of W. and J. Simms. Mr . White in the
chair. The hill was reporlcd without amend
ment. The House look the fame into considera
tion. After lome debate, the question for en
grofling the bill was pur, and loft.
A me ft age from the Senate, by Mr. Otis, their
Secretary, informed the House that they have
confidercd the bill relative to ceitain claims not
br.rred by any ast of limitation, and concur there
in with an amendment. This amendment be
ing taken into consideration, was agreed to.
Another message from the Senate informed
the House, that they have parted the coasting
bill, with sundry amendments. A'fo, that
they fn:ve confidercd the bill for determining the
Northern Boundary of the State of Noith-Caro
lina, and resolved that they do not concur
therein.
Mr. Moore reported as truly enrolled, the bill
entitled, An ast refpeftingfugitivesfrom juflice,
and pcrfons cfcaping from the I'ervice of mafteis
The Speaker figncd the fame.
Adjourned till to-moirow.
Moore,
Muhlenberg,
Parker,
Schoonmaker,
Steele,
Sumpter,
Sylvester,
Treadwell,
Venable,
White, 2;
Mess. Murray,
Niks,
Page,
Sedgwick,
J. Smith,
I. Smith,
W. Smith, .
Sturges,
Thatcher,
Tucker,
"Wadfworth.
Ward,
Williamfon,
Greenup,,
Leonard,
liindman, 3
SATURDAY, Feb. 9
Mr. Jacobs presented the petition of James
Becker, which was read and laid on the table.
The petition of Sarah Greaton, presented by
Mr. Ames, and the petition of Peter Rockyfel
low, presented by Mr. Lawrance, were read, and
referred to the Secretary of the Trcafury.
Mr. Wadfwoith presented a petition of the
French inhabitants of Gallipolis, praying to be
eflablilhed '*n their right to the lands on which
they have fettled, and for which they have paid,
relying on the faith of the government of the
United States. This petition was referred to a
felcft cortimittee of five, viz. MelTrs. Wadf
woi th, Sedgwick, Firtdley, White and Barnwell.
Mr. Heifter, from the committee on enrolled
bills, reported as trulv enrolled, the bill relative
to claims against the United States, not barred
by acts of limitation. The Speaker signed the
fame.
Mr. Willis preferred a memorial from the
Georgia line of the army—read, and laid on
the table.
A melTage from the President of the United
States, by Mr. Secretary Lear; informed the
House that the foreign intercourse bill had re
ceived his approbation and signature.
The House took hito consideration the amend
ments of the Senate to the cosfting bill—these
licing read, on motion they were referred to a
felefr committee to examine and report.
In commiitee of the whole, Mr. Dayton in
the chair, the report of a feleft committee on
the petitions of the manufacturers of cordage in
Philadelphia and Providence, was taken into
conhderation. This report contains two re so lo-
tions, which propose a drawback on exported
cordage, lines, twines and packthread, made of
imported hemp. After conftderable debate,
the question on the two resolutions was put, and
they were fcparatcly disagreed to. The com-
294
mlttec then rose and reported accordingly, «nd
the House adopted the icpori.
A meffjge from the Senate informed the
Honfe, thai the .& for regulating foreign coins,
and for other purpofev had r«e,«d the appro
hat y n and signature of the President of Ihc United
S, AS,.. toeftablifh fees to be p?id on.the tranf-.
for of public securities, was twice read, and
committed for Tuesday next.
In committee of the whole, 0(1 the bill for
the relief of Simeon Thayer. Mr Steele ... the
chair.—The bill was read by the chairman one
amendment was made, which, wit .tie >1 ,
wa« reported to the Houfe-The House agreed
to the amendment-the bill was then ordered to
■ be engrofT< d. . f
The committee to whom the amendment, of
the Senate 10 thecoafting bill were r.1"'" 1 - ""
commended verbally an agreement wit t e e
„ate_on which the House took the amendments
into eonfideraiion, and concurred therein.
A from the Senate by Mr. Otis, in
formed the House, that they have considered ihe
bill to authorize the settlement of the accounts
of Lewis Garanger, and do not concur in palling
said bill. Adjourned.
MONDAY, February 11.
The bill for the relief of Simeon Thayer,
was read the third time, and paired.
Mr. White presented two petitions from
French inhabitants in the territory of the
United States no-thweft of the Ohio. Refer
red to the committee on the petition of the
inhabitants of Gallipolis.
A petition of the admimftrators of William
Camp, late ofNew-Jerfey, was read, praying
compensation for fundrv buildings burnt in
the town of Newark by the Bvitifh during the
late war. . .
Mr. Thatcher pre Ten feci the petition of'
Wm. Morton, of the Diftrift of Maine, prav
in<* an exemption from the payment oi 112
dollars and 36 cents, due from him to the
United States, for reasons offered. Referred
to the Secretary of the Treasury.
A representation was read f om the Polt-
Master-General, Oating certain inconvenien
ces attending the transmission of the mail thro'
the State of New-Jersey, in con Sequence of a
law of that State, which fubjefts stage coaches
to a tax. Referred to the committee on the
poft-office law.
Mr. Heifter, of the committee 011 enrolled
bills, reported as truly enrolled. An ast for li
cencing'and enrolling of fliips or vessels enr
ployedln the coasting trade, and for regulat
ion- the fame—And an ast providing compen
sation for the President and V ice- Pre fide nt of
the United States. The Speaker signed the
fame.
Mr. \V. Smith, of the joint committee ap
pointed to determine 011 the mode of count
ing the votes for President and Vice-President
made report—which is, that the House lliould
repair to tlie Senate chamber 011 Wednesday
next, at 12 o'clock, and there the tellers to
be appointed should count the votes—and that
the President of the Senate fnould declare the
persons elected. This report was accepted,
and Mr. W. Smith and Mr. Lawrance ap
pointed teller* by the House.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr. Otis,
their Secretary, informed the House, that they
have patted the bill providing compensation
for the President and Vice-President of the
United States.
In committee of th« whole, on the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury, containing a
plan' for the reduction of the public debt.—
Mr. Dayton in the chair.
A debate ensued on reading tlie report, oc
cafioned by amotion that the committee (hould
rife. At 3 o'clock the committee role, re
ported progress, and had leave to fit again.
Adjourned.
Foreign Affairs.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Letter jnm Gen. Ktl/erman.
Paris, November 19.
Citizens Representatives,
I AM going to carry to the Romans the
bleffiugs of Liberty, which has been too
long exi'eel from their country. I (hall cause
our motto to be ftriftly obi'erved :—War It
caJlUs, peace to cottages, and refped to the mafier
pieces of the arts. I aflc only one favor of the
National Convention, that is, if calumny
Ihould pursue me, that I may be allowed to
confound my calumniators.
DUBLIN, December 4.
Yesterday morning, tne Catholic Delegates
met at the Taylors'-HaH, Back-lane, to cori
fult on the best mode of earning into effect
the measure for which thdjr were chosen;
which, after all the clamouifsmifreprefentati
on and inve&ive, to which they have given
rife, is nothing more than firnply this: To
prepare a petition to the LegiAature, laying
before them the humble request of all the Ca
tholics of Irelaad, that in consequence of their
tried loyalty, and long continued uninterrupt
ed good conduit, they may be admitted to the
rank of citizens, and share, in common with
their countrymen, the advantages of the Con
stitution.
BRUSSELS, Nov. p.
Extra El of a letter.
u Gen. Dumourier entered Liege on the
28th, after a very long and obstinate engage
ment, fighting even to the very streets of the
town. The action, however, has beer! at
tended with little loss on either lide."
PARIS, December 12.
The following is an extract of the report
ot the Commune, concerning the transferring
Louis Capet, the Bar of the National
Convention.
<• At one o'clock t> Mayor and Secf—r
went up into the apartment of the lute Kid*
and Taid to hitn, " I am charged to declare to
you, that tho Convention<*jrit far you at their
Aar, and I am appointed to Andnft y ntl ."
The Secretary then read thcff'vrord'., " Dj.
cree of the National'Co'Jsefft'Kin, of the 6th
of December : A*t. Louis Capet fcall be
brought to the bar ot' the National Conventi.
on on Tuesday the II th, to answer the qnefti
ons which shall be put to-him by tfie Presi
dent." This being done, the Mayor alked
Louis if he woyld go down, he appeared to he
• fitate a.little, and fady'"'My nr.*it fe n «t
Louis Capet ; my ancestors bore that iame
but I never wm called fo-t
all the treatment I have experienced these
four months patt by force. This mornin"
iny Ton has b;en separated from me, it wai
an enjoyment of which they have deprived
me. I Have been expecting 'you fheie two
hours."
The Mavov, without rernrn'rg »fiy ankver
invited him again to go down, which he (!e
---termined at length to do. Bejng in thj iC »r
riage, which'was lined with thick cufti oti-
order to be musket proof, he kept filei-ce all
the way, till the carriage w*<r stopped by fdn*
mifanderftandinp; among the guards,' who ef.
corted him on the Boulevards.
When he was near the g-\tes of St. Martin
and St. Dennis, he asked ifthefe two trium
phal arches would not be demolished ? H? was
answered that the gate ot'St. Dennis, being a
master-piece, would be preserved.
He arrived at the Convention at 2 o'clock
—He appeared drelTed in a brown great coat,
and did not seem at all troubled. Th? May-
or and Procnreur de la Commune warp pt
each fide.of'liifi); behind him were Santeive,
Ben uyef, and other officers. After his in.
terrogatory, he was conduced into the Con-
ference Hall, and accepted a bit of bre-.d, ob
fetying that he had jiot broken * faf:. He
afterward:! got up into the ?.layo-carrir.
and Spoke little 011 his return
a very numerous armed force, but the con.
course of people was not so gre-it as
have been expeftc^.—The greatest mdernnd*
silence reigned among the guards and fpefta.
tors.
He arrived at his apartment at half r>aft
fix. He repeatedly allied the Mayor, that
the Decrerf gr&ntiiig him a Counsel, r. ch
was refufed to nobody, mig v t be Speedily t->!a
---municated to him. It has Since ' een ref>!vi?tl
in the commune, that Louis fiinu'd have no
further communication with his family, and
that his Counsel fliould, hold their conference
with him alone, and always in the pretence of
the Municipal officers.
Louis has chosen for his Counsel, Tar
get, and in his default Tronchet.
TRIAL OF THE KING.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
December ix. . ..
The fitting commenced bv rending the Ast
of accusation ngainli Louis XVI. -which was
presented by Barbaroux, in the name of the
Commiflion of twenty-on?. It contained an
enumeration of the principal charges made
against the unfortunate Monarch ; and each
charge was followed by a lift of the pieces on
which the proofs are to be founded. When
it was read, several new charges were pro
pofM by several of the members, and Some
which appeared to have little weight, or to be
ill founded, were expunged.
The Convention wero much surprised t»
hear Marat become i* some mealure the vo
luntary defeuder of Louis XVI. by requefhng
that all those charges alluding to crimes com»
mitted before his acceptance of the Con dim*
tion, should be omited in the ast of accusa
tion. He spoke also of the aninefly which
followed that acceptance, but the Conventioi
paid no attention to his observations.
The Convention decreed that the ast of=(*•
Cufation should serve as the ground of those
questions which were to be put to Louis
XVI. and that after each question the Preii
dent should fay to him What have you t»
answer ? The President was authorised alft
to propose such questions as might ariie from
the King's answers, and to make him fit dow»
at the bar.
Barrere the President announced to tn»
Convention that Louis XVI* wasat the door,
and requested the Representatives of tiie Peo
ple to afTume a dignity worthy of the gran
deur of their functions. He reminded them,
that they formed a tribunal 011 which the eyes
of Europe were fixed, and whole Sentence
would be judged by posterity. He forbade
them to shew any signs either of approbation
or disapprobation, and desired them to re
member that coolness and fi'ent dignity wi
which they received the King after his return
from Varennes. ,
At half past two Santerre informed tn=
Convention that Louis was arrived, and was
waiting the orders of the Assembly.
The President gave the order to mtrod 11c
him. The mod profound silence reigne
in the Hall. Louis appeared at the bar, a
tended by two Municipal Officers.
When Louis appeared at the bar, the -
fident mentioned to him the decree bj w
the Convention established a tribunal to in
him. Malhe, one of the Secretaries, reaoit
ast of accuSation, charge by chaigCj an
each the President alked Louis what W
to fay in his own defence > The unl<<" d
Monarch did not, like Charles I. of Eng
refuSe to acknowledge the authority 0
Convention ; he delivered no w
contented himfelf with giving an'
each question in a few words. He a
copies of the ast of accuSation, of 1
which are to serve as proofs, and ot he
examination ; and requested a*°
might be allowed Counsel. and
His answers .were in general P ert ' ne " bar
fliort, nor did he appear in the lean a „j
raffed. He replied with great re:adi >
at some questions appeared a little ch. S ■
Killer man.
There wasexaMIKATTOIJ OP LOtTIS.
■pi'efident. " Louis ! the French nation
ac«ufes you.—The National Aflembly decreed
the 3d of Decemberthat you (hould be tried by
them; and on the 6th, that you Ihould be
brought to the bar, to hear the accui'ation
read°and to give your answers."
The Prefideut then read the articles of the
one by one, calling upon Louis t« answer
tach of them separately.
Accusation. Louis, the French people ac
cuse yau of haying plotted and formed a mul
titude of coiifpiracies tto eftablifli tyranny in
destroying Liberty. On the 10th of June,
1789, you made an attack on the (bvereignty
of the nation, by fufpendiog their represen
tatives, and by expelling them with violence
from the of thfcir meetings.
Answer. There existed then no law.
Acc. On the 23d you surrounded the re
prefc-ntatives of the people with troops; you
presented a Declaration ordering them to
cease their meetings and separate.
The fame answer as to the preceding asti
cle. ■
Acc. You ordered an army to march a
gainst the citizens of Paris to shed their blood,
and you did not dismiss that army till the rs
volution had been effected.
Anf. I had at that time a right to order
troops to march according to mv will ; it ne
ver was my intention to cauic the effufion of
blood.
Acc. Yon fuffered the National Cockade
to be trampled under foot before vonr eves,
and the white cockade to be worn. You con
stantly rejected the conltitution.
An'f. As to the decrees, 1 made the obser
vations I then thought I ought to make ; as
to the cockade, the ia<3: is lalfe.
Acc- You took an oath at the Federation
of the 14th of July, which you did not keep :
you fednced Mirabeau to cause an infurrefti
-011 in the departments.
Anf. Ido not reiliember all that puffed at
.hat time, but I know that the whole was pri
or to the acceptance of the conftitutiop.
Acc. You dilii ibuted money to the Faux
bourg St. Ant nine, that the people might fa
vor your escape.
Anf. This accusation is absurd. I ever
took a pleasure in giving money to the people.
Tlie-e was nothing in my conduct that had
the appeal ance of a plot for acounter-revolu
tion.
Acc. Was it not in consequence of the
fame project that you feigned an indilpofition
to facilitate vour retreat to St. Cloud.
An(j No. '
Acc. You swore to maintain the conftitn
fio-,; and on the 2ift of June you attempted
to elcap? with a falfe pafiport, and ordered
your ainifteis to sign no ast of the jegiilature.
A-.f. Idoi' it -emember what pafl'ed at
that tiint ; hut for my Journey to Varennes,
I refer to t'ie answers I'.nade tb the deputies
of the coiiil.tiient affamtyy, who accompanied
me on uajf return.
Acc. You oaiercedwirti La Fayette ; yrru
hired writer of Journal", and ipent consider.
able funis of money to overthrow the confli
tution.
Anf. I recollcft writing one letter to Fay
ette, but have no knowledge of the Fell.
Acc. You favored the rebellion at Aries.
Anf. The ministers did all that, and the
afieinbly proposed ministers to me 1 knew no
thing of.
Ace. You made no attempt to ftifle the
plots of cou-.iter-revolutior, which were ma
nifefted in several parts of the Republic.
Anf. 1 was not apgrifed of thei'e things, I
was informed of nothing; beside*, t would
require time for me to answer all these ques
tions,
Acc. Yon paid your body guards
at Coblentz, and you sent considerable fuuis to
Rochefort and to your brothers.
Anf. J, ceased giving them any thing as
soon as they palled the Rhine.
Acc. You refuled your fan&ion to a de"
cree for forming a camp near Paris ; you or
dered them to be flopped in their march ; the
arrny was not complete—you ordered no re
cruiting.
An(.° I presented at the time the state
ments to the afTembly ; if they were mistaken
it is not my fault.
Acc. You threw confuficn and disorder
in the army.
Anf. I cannot anftver this accusation.
Acc. Wby did you defer so long to inform
the legislative body that fifty thousand Prussi
ans were marching against France ?
Anf. My diplomatic correfpoudence was.
carried on by the ministers, therefore it is
not my fault.
Acc. You fufFered our navy to go to ruin ;
all the oGicers emigrated; there is scarcely
one left for the service.
Anf. I did not feud away thole officers.
Acc. The state was torn by the factions
•f the fanatic priests; you shewed yourleif
openly their protector, ard manifested a de
sign ol recovering your former power.
An . I cannot answer that, having no
knowledge of it.
Acc. The legislative aflembly pafled a de
cree against the factious priefts,you suspended
its execution.
Anl. I had a right so to do.
Acc. There were in Paris clandeftir.e as
sociations to operate a counter revolution,
paid by the civlift.
Anf. I have no knowledge of these faA?;
tne project of a counter"-re volution never en
tered my head.
Acc. Who were the members of the con
stituent aftembly you endeavored to corrupt ?
Anf. I never endeavored to corrupt any.
Acc. On the loth of August, you palled in
review the Swift; troops, at 5 o'clock in the
morning, and on that day they fired on the
people.
Ani. The constituted authorities were
"fembled at the callle ; I had demanded a de
putatton to procefcdwith me to the- legiflai.ive
aflembly : when I law that they did not ctu.e,
I repaired thither withall my family. ■
Acc. Why, some days before the 10th of Au
gust, did you order all the polls of the Swiss
guards at the Thutllenes to be doubled ?
Anf. Thecaftle was thieatened ; as I was one
of the conllnuent authorities, 1 had a rignt to
defend mylclf.
The Prtfident thenafked Louis if he had any
thing further to fay.
Louis. I beg the Aflemblj to give me commu
nication of theafctof accusation : I should desire
to,examine it minutely : I should also wiih to
have a counsel.
Marat (hewed h'm all the papers, one after
another; among the papas signed by bis own
hand, he acknowledged but a very few.
The President asked him why he caused a
hole to be made in the wall of hi,s apartment,
and to be covered over with an iron.door.
He anfwercd, that he had no knowledge of
th's.
The President told him, that the Aflctnbly
permitted him 10 retire.
Louis, on retiring, Lid, I have df fired to have
a tounfel,
The Aflcmbly then decreed, that the defireof
Louis 10 have a counfei (hould be granted.
LONDON, December 13.
This besng the firft day of the meeting of
Parliament, his Maje'lty went to the House of
Lords, and being seated on the throne, deliver
ed the "followed most gi'acious speech :
My Lords and Gentlemen^
# HAVING judged it nece(Tary to embody a
part of the militia of this kingdom, I have in
pursuance of the provisions of the law, called
you together within the time limitted for that
purpose, and it is, on every account, a great
fatisfa&ion to me to jneet you in Parliament
at this conjuncture.
I ihould have been happy if I could have
announced to you the fecurc and undifturbeff
continuance of all the bleflings which my fub
je&s have derived from a state of tranquility ;
but events have recently occurred which re
quire our united vigilance and exertion in
order to.preserve the advantages which we
have hitherto enjoyed.
The fediticus pradices which had been in
a great measure checked by your firm and
explicit declaration in,the last fefiion, and by
the general concurrence of my people in the
fame sentiments, have of late been more open
ly renewed, and with increased a&iyity. A
spirit of tumult and disorder, (the natural
consequences of such practices) has Ihewn it
felf in acts of riot and infurreftion, which re
quired the i;iterpofition of a military force in
lupport of the Civil Magistrate—The industry
employed to exqite discontents on various
pretexts and in different parts oft he kingdom,
has appeared to proceed from a design to at
tempt thetJeftruftion of our happy constituti
on, and the lubveriion of all oftt'er and govern
ment ; and this design has evidently been
pursued iti connexion and concert with pcr
fons in foreign countries.
I have carefully observed a drift-neutrality
in the present war 011 the continent, and have
uniformly abstained from any interference
with refpeft to the internal affairs of France;
but it is impossible for me to fee, without the
most serious uneasiness, the strong and increas
ing indications which have appeared there of
an intention to excite difturfjanees in other
countries, to disregard the rights of neutral
nations, and to pursue views of conquest and
aggrandizement, as well as to adopt towards
my allies the States-General (who have ob
fetved the fame neutrality with myfelf) mea
fu**es which are neither conformable to the
law of nations, nor to the positive ftipuljltions
of existing treaties. Under all these circum
stances I have felt it my indifpenfible duty to
hAve recourse to those means of prevention
and internal defence with which I amentruft
ed by law; and I have also thought it right to
take steps for making some augmentation of
my naval and mTitary force, being persuaded
that these exertions are neceflary in tjie pre
fer t-ftate of affairs, and are best calculated
both to maintain internal tranquility, and to
render a firm and temperate ..condu& effec
tual for preserving the blessings of peace.
Nothing will be neglected on jr.y part that
can contribute to that important object, con
fidently with the fecurtty of my kingdoms,
and with the faithful performance ofenj>a(*e
ments which we are bound equally by interest
and honor to fulfil.
Gentlemen oj the Houjr of Commons y
I have ordered the eitimates for the ensuing
vear to be laid before you ; and I have no
doubt that you will be ready to make a due
provision for the several branches of the pub
lic service.
You will certainly join with me in lament-
ing any necelfiry for extraordinary expences,
which may for a timeprevent tlieapplrcation,
of additional sums those winch are aU
ready annually appropriated to the redu<fri<n
of the public d bt, or retard the relief which
my fubjefts might have derived f om a fur
ther diminution of taxes : but I am confident
you will feel that those great end 1 ! will ulti
mately be belt promoted by such exertions as
are neceflaryfor our prei'ent and future lalety
and tranquility ; and it is a great i onfolation
-tome to reflect, that you will find an pie re
sources for defraying the expetice
of vigorous preparations, from the excess ol
the actual revenue beyond the ordinary ex
penditure.
My Lordi and Gevt/cnen,
I have great oleafure in acquainting you,
that the brilliant fnccefics of the British arms
in India, under the able conduct of the Mar
quis Cornwall!*, have led to the termination
of tie war, by an advantageous and honor
able peace, the terms of which are peculiarly
fatisfaftory to me, from their tendency to
fecura the future tranquility of the Britilh
dominions in that part of the world.
Your attention will now naturally be di
295-
rested to filch measures for the-futnre govern**
merit ufthofe valuable poffelftons, as fliall ap
pear, from experience and full consideration,
iiioft likely to provide for their internal pt of
perity, and to Jbcure the important advanta
ges which may be derived from thence to the
commerce and revenue of this country.
I am persuaded it be the object of yonr
immediate <?onfideration, to adopt (rich me a
fures as may be necdlTary, uiyricr the present
circumstances, for enforcing obedience to the
laws, and for reprefling every attempt to dii
turb the peace and tranquility of these king
doms.
You will be sensible how much depends on
the result of your deliberations, $nd your uni
form conduct: is the best pledge, that nothing
will be wanting on your part which can con
tribute tb the pre fen t fec&rity and permanent
advantage of the country.
I retain a deep and unalterable fer.fe of the
repeated proofs which'l have received of your
cordial and affe&ionate attachment to me;
I place an entire reliance on the contin
uance of these 'entiments, as well as on your
firm determination tb defend'and maintain
that constitution which has so long protected
tke liberties and promoted the happiness of
every class of my fubje&s.
In endeavoring to preserve and transmit to
posterity the inestimable bleijings which, un
der the favor of Providence, you have your,
selves experienced, you may be allured of my
zealous and cordial co-operation ; and our
joint efforts will, I doubt not, he rendered
compleatiy effectual, by the decided support
of a free and loyal people.
Philadelphia, Feb. 13.
The Britify December Packet arrived at New-
York the Bth inft. $he had 45 days parage, and
brirgs accounts to the 2'id ot December. An
epitome of the intelligence is subjoined.
On the 2d December t,he French "army tinder
Genpia! Cultine, was attacked by the Prussians
and Heflians, under the command of the King
of Pruflia. Cuftine Was obliged to retire; h«
took port in a ft-rong pofitvon in the neighbor
hood of Franckfort, from which he kept up a
severe cannonade on the enemy.—A subsequent
account fays, that Prince Hohenlohe, at the head
of the Hcflians-, had attacked Cuftine in hisen
tienchinents, and carried them. Frankiort, af
ter a violent- aflaulr, was retaken by the Piuf
fians; and the Frrnch garrison, confuting of
1500 men, made prisoners of war; among
which was one general officer, and the son of
General Cuftine Another account fays, the
city was treacherously given up b) the inhabi
tants, and t.wo regiments of the garrison put to
the sword.
Thcbuft of Mirabeau is now veiled in Paris,
and the populace take many methods of shew
ing difrefpe£t to his memory. It is said he
wis a creature of monarchy.
The exportation of com from Fiance is prrt
hjjbited on .pain of death : premiums on its im
portation arc offered* of 4c* sous per quintal, till
lft May, and 33 sous till 30th June.
A London paper of the 20th December, gives
an accouutof the trial of Thomas Pai ne, for a
libel against the Govcinment of Great-Britain,
of which the jury found him guilty, without
going out of Court. Duflln and Lloyd, men
tioned in a former paper, have alio been tried
for a libel, and found guilty.
The executive power is to take proper
mcafures for general fafety during the course
of the judgment of Louis Capet; the account
lately published of his being tried and acquit
ted is premature.
Some riots have taken place in England ;
one at Manchester in which the mob were ex
asperated against the friends of a Parliament
ary reform. In various places in the country
the people have burnt Mr. Paine in effigy ; on
the other hand, in many places the
of the French have been celebrated—and ri
ots against government have taken place.
The Uritifh government are arming a large
sleet—some accounts fay 50 fail of the line ;
houses of rendezvous are opened in all the
cultomary places ; some serious internal com
motion appears to be apprehended—the pre
parations for arming have affected the funds
greatly—they have fallen 20 per cent —The
American funds had risen, fix per cents 105 —
3 per cents 65^—and deferred 63.
The guards at the Bank and at the Tower
are doubled.—A board of officers was appoint
ed to enquire info the conduct of the officers
of the army—fosne of whom it appeared had
been employed in attempts to instil seditious
opinions into the minds of the soldiery—these
were difmifled the service ; among others the
names of Lord Temple and Col. Fitzgerald
are mentioned; large rewards were oticred
by the government for apprehending Samp
son Perry, EUj. author of a seditious pamphlet
—and a Mr.Frost, who had declaimed in trea
ionable terms against the King. Proclama
tions are ifTued, offering encouragement to
ieamen and landmen to enter l into the service
—for embodying the militia—and for con
vening Parliament on the 13th December
which had been prorogued to 3d January.
Alfociations are formed in London and va
ries* other place*, to counteraftthe revolu
tion societies, and to support the present con
ftitotion and government.
The Austrian and Prullian Courts are mak
ing preparation for encreafing their armies—
and filling their magazines with grain.
The arms of France have triumphed in mod
place—Namur, Liege, Antwerp and o
ther places of inferior confequencetre in their
polTeflion.
In BruiTels the people have entirely reno
vated their government—all their officers,
judges, &c. take an oatli of allegiance to the
people, viz. I Iwear to be faitlfnl to the peo
ple my true and lawful sovereign—and to
maintain liberty and equality. The day pre
vious to tbe capture of Liege, which was the
astli Nov. Genera] Bumourier had a battle
with the rear guard of the Auftfians consist'
ing ©f i2,ooomen; the Adftrians were en
tirely defeated, and though the account fay*
they made a stout reii&ancey the French loft
only 3 men killed, and 14 wounded. The
ruounded of the Auftrians filled 37 waggons. —
The Genoe'e are about making themfelve*
free. The Get evar ? 1 avt difn ij;e< ■*i c Swiss
Troops, and another revolution ha? taken
place in their government—the rights of citi
zens are now enjoyed on a' more extensive
lcale ; clubs and meetings have been formed
and held in Canterbury, Northampton, Bir
mingham, London and Weft minfre , for !up
porting the government and conilitutiou.
Nov. 19 —Died, at his hoyfe in t;>c old Bair
ly r the wor.thy and much. esteemed Mr. R.
Akerman, keeper of Ne v.* gate.
A writer in the Fayetteville Gazette, North-Carolina
thus addresses his renders.
GENTLE READER !
The Excise Law has had this great effect
on this State—our fruit was f nmerly consi
dered as very Jitt'e worth, but now it bid?
lair to be an article of value and considerable
export—and more distilleries have been esta
blished this twoyears past, than perhaps, with
out this a<ft of encouragement, would have
been for twenty years.
To avail ourselves of the great
of our former population, and fertility of foil,
and that rank we sustain in the union* no
thing is wanting but industry, a reverence of
the Laws, and appointing those chara&ers t»
rcprefent us in the great Council of tho, Na
tion who, unmindful of fact.on, intrijue ants
felf profit, endeavor, Headily to advance oii*
great and joint agricultural, manuMurinj
a«id commercial inteicfts. .
COMMUNICATIONS.
Thojc who aninadveit on the corrupt influence im
bibed into the government from the spirit oj /pecu
lation m the members, are often called upon to give
names and fads in Jupporf of their charges. The
true and fatisj'aSory anfwsr is, that the*public it
fujjicicntly acquainted zviih niar.y Homes and facts
which need not {herefore be mentioned ; feccndly, that
names and h€ts cannot be called Jor whiljl the
■vfmit* to an authentic d)fcl»Jiure thereoj are ftii.it
up againjl injpeflion. Let "the fubfenption ami
transfer books ps the fund?, and the fubfcripiioa
and dilcour.t books ojthe Bank be la'd open and
names snd fa£!s will then bc-givch as fully and dear
ly as may he defired-.—Quere y whether the /aid book.t
ought to be locked up again fl a knowledge oj the tranf
atiions of pnfons in puhiic charader \ so that the
people cannot judge oj the function or particular
views oj those entrujled with their interejls t
To those who will not pay attention to the
tranfa<st:ons of government there will be an
appearance of mystery in them. Those who
pay attention with prejudiced and suspicious
minds wili find no left mystery. A man who
pulls a milled tap over bis eyes may well cry
out, I am in the dark ; for the proverb truly
fays, none are so blind as those who will Dot
fee. These remarks apply to those who en
deavor to alarm the jealousies and fears of
the people on the plea that our government is
wrap'd up in darkness and mystery. This
charge on examination will do honor to the
confritution ; for all our money tranfatfions
are by that constitution and by the laws made
in conformity with its spirit, as public and as
carefully checked as it is possible.
ingly it appears, that every dollar received
or expended is brought to account. If it were
as easy to fatisfy jealousy by proof, as it is to
awaken it by groundless hints and half smo
thered whispers, the result of the enquiries
made by the House of Representatives of the
United States, would cqnfirm the confidence
01 the people in the administration of their
national affairs, by ftiewing how (olid a con
stitutional ground it stands on. Every tVan£
the Treasury is publiftied, and the
people mavj jf they will take the pains, by
reading, fee for them-elves the refutation of
the numberless suspicions which have been
whimpered against the government of our
country.
The enemies of government eomplairrof hard
nfage, bccaule their noisy censures of the conftt
tution and adminiftrauon of our country ate im
puted to fclfifh motives. Dmibtlefs there are
many who ast sincerely aud from principle—,
but a mistaken one, however. But the piople
are called to judge at every ele&ion, whether
the greater part of the furious holders lorlh against
Congress are not candidates for appointments.—
They arc—and he tnuft be blind indeed who
does not fee that the blusterers have made all the
racket merely to draw the attention of the vot
ers. Those who hate levees and the glare of
courts, the me<k fouls who cry equality—who
fay that power corrupts the poffeflors, and turns
them into enemies of liberty, behold them in
confiftcntly intriguing, coaxing and lying, to
get an ele&ion. Pure fouls—-trying to get into
place to lose at once their innocence and attaeh
ment to liberty, not contented with equality,
they would get power which would spoil them.
If sowing discord, jealousy and fruition, arc to
be the luccefsful means of getting into office,
there never will come a year when our political
field will oot bear a great crop.
*♦* No P°ft' arrived when this pa
per went to press.
ARRIVED at the POR Icj P!lII ADETTHIA,
Ship Phoebe, Lockycr, Lisbon, in 65 davi.
PHILADELPHIA.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents, >V
Deferred, ujio
Full fbarea Bank U. S. 12 per cent, prem
Bank North Arr.«ric« v 14A New Post-Road.
HAVING beendefired to ellibl'.fh a pod
road from Reading, in the state of Pe.m
fylvania, to Williamlburg, at the Greai Forks- ot
«he Genefee river, Notice is hereby given, that
proposals will be received at the General P .it-
Office, for carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Williamlburg .foiefcid, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading and the sown of
Northumberland J from the latter place to Loyai
Sock creek ; thence to Lycoming creek ; ibmce
in the new road to the Painted Post, on Tioga
river; and thence to Williamfburg.
The proposals will be received until the »stli
-of March next, inclulively;, the carriage ot the
mail to comnicncc within one month aHer
v»ards. '
Ncccffary Poft-Officea are to be eftablilhcd on
the route, and (uch petfom appointed Poll
tnafters as the Contractor (hall name, and the
Post maftei-General approve.
Within three months after theeamage of this
mail is commenced, the Contractor is to state to
the Poftmaftcr-Gencral the days and hours of us
irrival and departnte at and from the prim ipal
Poll-offices, which experience (hall prove to be
tnoft convenient; and thereafter the mail is to
be delivered at the tefpeftive PolUoffices at the
honrs so fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted,
On penalty of one dollar for each hour's delay ;
and for the non-performance of ■ trip, the Con
tractor to forfeit twenty dollars.
The term of the contrail cannot exceed eight
years. During its continuance the Contractor is
to receive the rates of poflageby law eftablithed,
»nd to have the exclusive piivtlege of carrying
letters and packers for hire, such excepted, as
flicll b* sent by 3 special melTenger, or which are
•t (hall be bv law declared free.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, Y. M.G.
General PvJl-OJ/ice, Jtn. 21,1793.
Insurance Company.
AT a gtneral meering (by adjournment) of
the Insurance Company of North-America,
on Wednesday the i6th iriitant,
It was Resolved,
THAT the Instalments which, according to
the Conftiiution, will become due on the (econd
Monday of July and January next, or either of
them, may bt paid by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so paymg
such inftaltnent, or instalments, (hall receive a
proportionate (hare ot the Dividends thereafter
to be made, calculating such Glare from the firft
day of the month succeeding luch paymenti re
fpc&ivelf. Extract from the Minutes,
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Jan. 23.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Resolved,
THAT the Calhier be juthorifed to receive
from the proprietor of any number of com
pleat ihares, such Ceitificatci, oot in hu own
name, 21 he may be the proprietor of; and after
cancelling the fame, to issue a new Certificate or
Ceitificaies in lieu thereof, in the name of fucti
proprietor.
Resolves, That in all future transfers ot
(S<jmplr»t shares in the capital stock of the Bank,
the Certificates of the Mures transferred be can
celled, and a new Certificate or Certificates be
issued in the name of the transferee or purchaser.
Risolvid, That the Certificates in (mate
issued, be foi One or more (hares, as the pro
prietor tnay.rrqueft ; tnd the new Certificate or
Certificates (hall be of correspondent numbert
with thofc in lieu of which they arc Cued.
ep3 w JOHN KEAN, Cafi.ier.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
February ift, 1793-
WHEREAS foreigners holding Stock, in
the Bank of the United States may pre
fer receiving their Dividends in Europe, to re
ceiving them in America,
RESOLVED, That any proprietor of the
Capital Stock of the Bank of the United States
lefiding in Europe, (hall be entitled to receive
either in London or in Amsterdam, the half
yearly dividends which may be declared there
on—in London at the rate of one pound fterJing
for every four hundred and forty-live cent*, or
in Amsterdam at the rate of one guilder current
money for every forty cents and tour mills—the
dividend declared in January of each year, to
be paid in London or in Amsterdam on the ft
eond Monday ol July following—and the divi
dend declared in July of each year, to be paid in
London or in Amsterdam on the lecood Mon
a.y of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to the declaring of any Dividend, so to be
paid in London or in Amftetdam) (Hall give au
thentic notice to the Prcfident and Directors of
the Bank at which of the said Cities he will re
ceive the said Dividend.
By the Prefidcnt and T)ire&ors.
JOHN KEAN, Cafkier.
Advertisement.
Mr. JOSHUA HARHIN,
Sir,
YOU will pkafe to take notice, that I intend
to file a Bill in the ftigh Court of Chancery,
in the St«Jte of Maryland, to compel yoti to con
vey the following .Trails of LAND, to wit—
Harbin's Lot, ontaining one hundred acres of
land ; Evans's Ounce, containing fifty acres of
land,; Piney Grove, containing fevehty-two and
one half acresof land ; and part of James's Tract,
containing twenty-five acres ; in tke whole, two
hundred and forty-feven and one half acres of
land ; situate, lying and being, in Montgomery
County, in the State of Maryland ; agreeable to
your Bond of Conveyance, entered into by you
to me the twenty-sixth day of November, 1781.
I am, with due refoeft. thy friend,
'JOSEPH EVANS.
Ann Arundel County, State oj Maryland,
February 1/?. 1792. (ep tow)
A large Cellar to Let,
Suficientl> capacious to flore several hundred ban els.
Enquire of the Prln tk r r
FOR. sale,
Sv tit Uijcriicr, *t Wdnnt-Strttt frhtrf,
BILL of EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fi'for immediate ule, in pipes «t quarter cafUs,
TENERIFFE WIN'E, hi pipes,
SHERRY WINE, in quarter catks,
WEST-INDIA RL'M, e, - and 4 proof,
OI.D BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Balea 10.4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13 4 Inch CABLE, i«o fr.homs long!
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1793. 'P 2m
TO be Sold, OR leased
FO* SIVIN OB TEN VIAil,
THE FOLLOWING
houses.
ONE 00 Walnut-ftieet, near Four«h-ftreet,
an feet front, haa two parlours below, the
f.om one ail by iyi feet, the back parlour ta
18 by u- feet. The front room op ftaira w a6f
bv i7iieet. There are five good chambers m
this house, beGdes the *arret it divided into
three rooroa,. in two of them there arc fire-
places.
The other Heufe is 27 feet upon VUlnut
ftreet, and .52 feet upon 4 tli street; there a.e two
good parlours below, nne of them 25 by 20 1-2
feet, ttie ofher 55 by. 18 t-2 feet, ?nd seven com.
plete beri-chamben; besides tht garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have (ire.
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largrt house ha* also a
house-keeper's room. It is intended there (hall
be a communication from both of theie houses
to a nfcighbouring ice-house, Tufiictently large to
supply 3 houses. Within 50 /trds of thele
houses, there will he compltat stables and coach
houses, for both houses ; they will be 'inifced
in the mod cornpleat manner, ind tWt keys
ready to be delivered early in the fummcr.
On paying h«lf the mornjy down (if fold) the
oth r half may be paid by inftalmenti, or the
whole may remain for 5 years, paying interelt
and giving fccurity on the premifefc.
For terms of sale or leal'e, »pp>y to the Sub
£crik»;r,
GEORGS MEADE.
Wfto has jer SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amountin»totwenty-five poonda
fixtcen (hillings 4nd ftx-pencc, per annum.
Also, a quantity df 3 AOS, that wilt contain two
and a Half and three and a half bulhels.
Philartdphi*, fun. 19, i7?a.
War Department,
JiNVAR* £3> 2793-
INFORMATION -re hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the funis to which they »re entitled for fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the rih div ot March 1793, will be paid on
th.' said day by the Commiflioneri of the Loans
within the flatei refpeftively, under the ufu*l
regulations, vie.
Every application for payment must be ac.
comoaniod by the following vouchers:
jft. The certificate givtn by the Hate, fpeeify
ing that the person pofleffing the fame is in f»£f
»n Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as fucb, he is annually intitled.
id. An-affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one oT the Juflices
ofjthe county of in the state of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his pofleflion was giv.
en, of which the following is a copy \'the, cer
tificate given by the state to be recited) That
he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the
time he was disabled, and that he now resides
in the and county of aod has resided
there for the last years, previous to which
He resided in
In cafe an Invalid fhnnld apply for pavmtM
by am attorney, the said attorney, hefides'he
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a special letter of attorney agreeable to the "fol
lowing form :
1, A. B. of county of state of
' do hereby constitute and appoint C. B. of
my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension for fix months, as an Invalid
of the United Stales, Irom the 4th day of Sep
tember 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
Signed and Seated
in the frefence of
Acknowledged befora me,
Applications of executors and administrators
mnft be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpeftive offices, and also of the tim« the
Invalid died, whole pension they may claim.
By Command of the Prefjdent
ot the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
(t3T The Printers in tint refpeSlioe Slates arc re
tyejled to publish the abotfc in their Ntwf papers jor
the space e>J a months.
PLANS
City of Washington,
So'd bv the Booksellers,
OOP.SON, CAREY, WWt,3 CRI'KSHASK.
TO BE SOLD BY THE. EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paving Gold
graduated according to Law—Blank Mnmfefts—
And Blankx for ,fhc various Powers ot Attorney
niceflary in tranfafting Bufmrfj at lha Treafuiy
or Bank of the the United States.
-296
BY the Cortirriifllonef! ippoinlid Ifc prejArs
the Public Buildingi, 4c. wuhm the City
of W»(hin«ion, for the reception of Congreft
and for iheir.permanent residence after the year
•Bo* —
TOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 3J",ooo dollars.
Ot TH*
A LOTTERY
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
i Superb Hotel, wiifc baths, )
out houses, &C.&C.IP colt >
1 Cash Prize
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
£,000 arc
1,000
5 00
100
.5°
*5
20
10
e ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
ico ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditte
15,000 ditto
16,737 P'i«»
Blanks
<0,000 - . r
The foledefign of this Lottery being to fact i
tate other improvements together witn the Public
Buildings—it i»'he particular desire of the Com
miff.onera that these may be effefled with as
few deductions from the Prir.es as poluble—how
far their endeavors may be answered, the Schcme
otthe Lottery will demonßrate. The *eys oF
the Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to
the fortunate poffefior ot the ticket drawn a.
ajraroil hs number.
All the other >rizes will be pyd, WttMA
JeduCHe*) in or.e mon.'h aj'.rr att 'I
the City Trt-afurer !>t Washington, or at luch
Bank orSanksas may be hereafter announced.
The «1 rawing will commence on Mo»d»v the
9th of Septembei at the City of W.lhing-
Tickpte may be had of Col. ttUj. Dit uns, Cuv
Treasurer of V.'albington ; of MrfTrc. Janes ijl
£3 Co. Baltimore ; of Mr. Vcttr Gilma*, Bolton ;
and at such other plates as Will be hereafter
publi filed.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the befl Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, iJ irej» >te>-
nn or cfore tin 10it 'ji djjril nexli and a In
ference will be givn to the Anifl for a Con.
tract, provided lie be duly qualified to
com pleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erected, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by SCO feet, with a
bark avenue to the (tables, &c. Sefbons and
etimates of the expense will be expecteu
with the elevations, Ac. ; and 50,000
dollars mult be regarded by the Architeaast.ie
utmofl lirtiit in the expense intended lor this
purpose. 5. BLODC^ET,
Agtnt for thi affairs of the City.
Ja.mtry ij«
City of Washington.
January 7th, i;9g.
A NUMBER of Lois in this City will be of
fered for sale at aufiion, by the Corumif*
Sonera, on the 17th day of September next.—
One fourth part of the purchase money it to be
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GAttTT, Clerk It the Cm'rs.
Extrafl of an Afik of the General Assembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Wafbington.
*• Be it ena&ed, That any foreigner \»y ty
deed, or will, hereafter to be made, U\he a-d held lands
within that part of theJiid Territory which lies with
in this State, iw the fame manner as if kt was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands lr<*v b; cot>
rcycu by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and tiey were citizens
of this State : Provided, That no foreigner shall,
in virtue hereof, be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen,"
Jan. ig,
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful fttuation on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of rtireftion towards the Federal
City and George Town,in full view of each place,
commanding a profpc&of the fiver aod adjacent
country oi Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 4/5 or 50 acre* of Land, lying di
rcftly on the river, will be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-story framed "
dwelling-house, neatly fmifhed, a kitchen, office,
brick smoke-house and dairy, two-uorv trained
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ice
houte, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other nc
ceffary improvements ; trie whole of the Una
enclosed with polls and rails, ten or fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of. graft. Its
contiguity tothofe three towns must render it an
objrft worthy the attention of any pcrfon who '
wishes to invest money in a property that must
enhance in valise, in proportion to the rapid in
crease of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central fuuationtoeach place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep ftvore and harbour,
capable of receiving veffeU of ?riy burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be erected here to the Citv of
; Washington and the Maryland Ihoris leading to
Baltimore and Philadelphia.—Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about ihree miles distant,
which will suit weil to fuooly the above in
wood and timber. The title may be seen 10 the
above property, which is indifpuiable, and terms
known by application to the fab farther, living
on the premises.
Dtccmier ntk, IJ9I,
fun pueifSffto,
By Thomas Dobfofi,
SioiftUer, at the Sionc-Htufc, in Seuni Jtrt-i
Philadelphia, '
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS,SCIENCES.
AND
50,000
The Di»mt,r SCIENCES and ARTS
are duelled into the form nl Diflii.a
TREATISES or SYSTEMS : '
COMPIIEHtKOIKO
*5.000
20,006
13,000
10,000
ito,ooo
io,oot>
10', 000
10,000
xb,ooq
10,000
20,0C®
I^o,ooo
THE History, Theory, and Piaflice, of each
according to the Latif! Difcoveiic, , m '
provements : and Full Explanation! given oftbt
Various detached pant of Knowledge, whethrr
relating to Natural and Artificial Objrfl,, or ,j
Matters Eccltfiaftieal, Civil, Military,Commru
ctal, &c. Including Elucidations of the matt „ n .
portant Topics relative to Religion,MtvaU.Mjn
ners, and the Oeconomy of L fe : together with
a Dcfcription of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains. Seas, Rivers, tc. throughout
the World j a General History, Ancient uid
Modern, of the different Empiret, Kingdoms
and States; and an account of the Lives of the
moll Eminent Persons in every Nation, from iht
earliest ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the heft inthon, i 4
Several Languages ; the most approved Diftions
rics, as well of General Science as of particular
branches; the Tranfaftioos, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned societies, both at home tvi
abroad—the MS. le&ures of eminent profelfnrs
on different Sciences : and a variety of ongmsl
Materials, furtiilbed by an extensive Correltjoi:-
dence.
Dollars 350,000
The Seventh Volume contain* a defcripiioi
of Mount Etnj, Eudiometer, tape,
rimcntal Philosophy, Syftrm of Farriery, t"»ud»l
fyfUm, Fire, fix<*d Air, Fluxions. Food, Fottificj.
lion, Foflilj, hiftbry of France, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Gtography, Geometry, Gilding, GlWfl|
&e. with a variety of articles in natural hiftoty,
biography and vnifccltanie*. lllufttated *iili
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
[. The Work i* printing oa a ftiperfint
and new types, (cafl for the putpofe) nhiett
will be occasionally renewed before they *qii«
tra& a worn appearance*
11. The wort it furnilhed in boards, in volumes
or half.volumea, as fubferibera chufe;the jrticf
ol the whole volumes Hollars each.ot ik
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds ora
dollar each. Ten dollars to he paid nn
feribing, the volumes or hals-volumes
to be paid fftr when delivered, tbr prictof oui
volume to be paid in advance, ami tbe price ol
each succeeding volume to be paid on d*littr»
ing the volume preceding it. jfo ptri 61 ltd
work will be delivered urtlefs |>iid frtr.
111. In (he eoutfeof the publication »iH M itt
livered about five hundred COppefplfctrS ri«U
jointly rngtaved in Philadelphia: which by
1 arc*reed in numberthofe given Id itty WKe#
f'cientiSc d iSionary. At the elofe ot (he ptiba
lication will be delivered an elegant frttttiU
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper li.
tie pages for the different .
It >s ex pelted the work will b« compriMiil
about eighteen volumes in qnarto.
Thole who wilh to becomepnfcKors ftl
thisvalliable work will plrafr m be rarlyinthtt»
applications, as the fubfeription it nearly clotrtf,
Jan. »3-
Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 15th inltant, a likely Nfc
gro Man caller. Isaac, about twenty-three
years oid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made fellow, fond of talking, Viei a large
mouth, and (hows his teeth very much v»hcft
talking ; had on when he went away, a brown
linen fhift, a short white kersey over jacket with
a very high collar and plain bieaft, with buttont
■which appear to have bt'tn very gay j a pair of
white kersey breeches, » pair of white knit yara
fkockings, • pais of (hoes witfc in
and a coarse hat j all the above clothes are
mod new. Said Negro was fprmtily the cro
perty of Mr. William Tknhsi, Ute of Rent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, d<-
ceafcd, and has for fevetal years been eni|ilove4
in that neighbourhood, and principalfy by a Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by MefTrs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, which bufincfs he is
well acquainted w»h, and is what he preferss
and tias been engaged in driving a waggon froi*
(aid Cross-Roads to Duck-Cteek, &c. until
Auguff last. I expea he will make his way for
the neighbourhoods of George-Town, Duck*
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above to
ward will be paid if delivered to me in thi»
place, or Thirty Dollars if Teemed in any goal,
so that I get hioi again. He is an aitfal fellow,
and when raken, will make his elcape, unlcfl
particularly secured.
F.aston, OWEN KENNARQ,
Talbot County, ?Aary/<tnJ, Ott. 28, 179"* 1,1
BALDWIN DADE
eftm
VOLUME VII, o>
MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Pfan cntir?l\ •
»T WHICH
CONDITIONS.
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or between Provident*
and Boston, a very fm'ill TRUNK, cove ''
■with (cal4kin of a reddish colour, with *
spots. It contained » quantity of Souttr »«
Noah-Carolina State Notes, and a few or t c
State of Rhode. I {land ; with other paperJ.wluc*
can only be ferriceable to the prnp>ie'o r - '
State notes are cheeked at the offices tlorn * ,
thev issued. Any pcrfon producing thi■ T™"
(with its contents) to JOHN MARSTON, «
Boston, -VfILLIAM HALL, of Prnvidencei
Messrs. PA TERSON and BRASHER, Nt«"
York, or Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in
phia, (hall receivethe above reward, or lo" 1
part of the prapertv, One Hundred Doll""-
Boftoit, Nov. 28. C P
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOffEKh
May be had at SAMUEL COOnJ" F« V