/ ' / / 1
'-T/.y.. ytc A *'fii
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBUSHfcD WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEMO, No. 3 fUTH. STREET, PHI lAD hi PHIA
[No. 84 of Vol. IV.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, March 1.
in committee of the whole, Mr. Mahleuberg
in the chair, on the Jd, 4fh, Jt'h, 6th, 7th,
and Bth refutations, refpeftiiig the official
conduit of the Secretary of the Treasury,
for which fee Gazette of the 6th iit'ft.
(CONTI N U IB.)
MR. LEE observed, that as he found
himfelf under the neceflky of differ
ing from his friend who had moved the re
foiution, with whom he generally agreed
io opinion—and was accu domed to ast,
lie begged the attention of the committee
for a few minutes.
Mr. Lee ohferved, to deteimine
whether the Secretary of the Tieafury
hadafted legally, it was necessary to ex
amine whether the authority from the
President and his fubkquent inftruftlons,
authorized him -to confolulatf the. loans
under the acts of the 4th and 12th of
Aug. 1790.
On thisqueftion Mr. Leeobfeived that
there seemed to be no objection to such
a conftruftion, except that which arose
from the difference of interest allowed by
those acts. That the firft loan was com
menced without any regular authority by
a company in Amsterdam ; that it receiv
ed its authenticity from the acceptance ro
the Secretary of the Treasury. The in
terest and douccurs on this loan amount
ed to more than an interest at 5 per dent,
which was the only premium contemplat
ed by the ast of the 12th of August. It
could confequent'y be accepted only un
der the ast of the 4th of August, which
gave 00 limitation to the interest which
waato be allowed. This money seemed
therefore solely applicable to the payment
of the foreign delate From his report of
the 24th of Feb. 1791. the Secretary
himfelf seemed to have had this imprefli
on. Congress seemed also to have had
this impreflion, as on the 3d of March
following they pafled an ast authoiifing
the application of this loan to the pbjeft
of the ast of the 12th of Aug. 1790. —
After the 3d of March 1791, therefore,
the Secietary of the Treasury had a right
to bring this money to America for the
purposes of the finking fund. The inter
til of tht foreign debt becoming due, for
which domestic revenues were pledged,
he thought it prudent to pay that interest
out of this loan, relying on the domestic
revenues to replace it, for the purposes of
the finkinqr fuujJ. This was a mode of
bringing the money here, and he was not
limited in his discretion as to the'mode—
and tlrcrefore had-a right to follow that
which appeared to him tnoft advantage
ous. The paying of the foreign interest
out of this loan was made after the 3d of
Marcli 1791.
Mr. Lee had no doubt as to the legali
ty of all the proceedings relative to mo
nies drawn to this country subsequent to
the 3d of March i 79 I—even1 —even the monies
borrowed for the foreign debt, because an
higher intereft'than 5 per cent, was ftipu
laicdfor, on any of the subsequent loans,
and because the President in his inftrufti
ods to the Secretary leaves the mode- of
paying the foreign debt to his discretion.
If he judged it for the advantage of the
United States to bring this money, in the
firft place, to America, the legality of
kicb a meafuiecannot be questioned, tho'
the economy and wisdom of it may nyt
be admitted. On this point Mt. Lei ac
knowledged—that he had not time to ex
amine minbtely all the statements and re
port? of the Secretary, to judge of those
exigencies which induced the drawing of
*11 the money which had been drawn 10
America.
Whether it had been consistent- or not
>*ith the interest of ihe United States—
Mr. Lee was of opinion, that the Secre
tary had legally a right to bring all the
money he had dtawn for to America, ex
cept what was diawn piior to the jd of
Match 1791. This, money was drawn
•*»—<r
Wednesday, March 20, 1795.
out of the firft loan; it was drawn, as
declared, for the finking fund ; —the frrft
loan, foi the reasons before stated, couid
not be applied, and consequently, till the
ast of the 3d of March 1791, this money
could not be legally drawn for to the fink
ing fund. Perhaps this ast caused the ir
regularity of this proceeding.
But is not the Secretary of the Treasu
ry fubjeft to blame ? Mr. Lee obfervsd
he thought he was not altogether free
from it. At the meeting of Congress
on the Bth of Dec. 17QO, the Presi
dent in his speech informed both houses,
that the firft loan had been accepted, and
that the secretary of the treasury had di
rections to lay the particulars before them
—But whdt did he do ?On the 15th of
Dec. following, he began to draw money
on account of this loan to America, for
the finking fund ; though from this re
pott ofl the 24th of Feb. he ap
pears to have had a doubt as to the legali
ty of this proceeding—he delayed giving
information, in conformity to the Presi
dent's speech, till a few days before the
diffclution of Congress. This conduct,
Mr. Lee said, seemed to argue a distrust
of the ligiflative councils. Mr. Lee dila
ted on the neccflity of the purest and
most confidential communication between
the secretary of the treasury and the
legislature; and said, though he could
not agree to the resolution then under
consideration, there was one, fubfpquent
to it, relating to this point, which he
was forty to find himfelf under the necefil
ty of voting for.
MR. BOUDINOT called the attention of
the committee to the chang# in the usual
ficuation of the House. They were no longer
ailing in a legislative capacity, hut were now
exercising the important office of the grand In
quest of the nation : It was necessary he said, to
aivfrt jp this circumstance, to prevent running
into the diffufe mode of argument that lad im
properly been adopted on this occasion. A gen
tleman of this committee had thought proper
to institute an enquiry int« the conduit ©f an of
ficer of the government, in a very important
and highly responsible station. He had exhibit
ed his charges against him in writing—had re
duced them to certain and fpecific fails. To
these, and to these alone he had pointed his evi
dence, and we were bound in honor andconfci
ence to give a just and decisive opinion on each
independent charge.—ln the firft place the truth
of the fa<sls must be fettled and eftablilhed—if
in their favour, the criminality would then
neceflarily require a second confideratfon. The
honor and reputation of the officer thus charged,
as well as the refpe<st due to the gentleman who
had brought forward the accusation. required a
steady, uniform,and disinterested examination of
every quel) ion from us.
Under this view of the fabjefl, Mr. Boudinot
said, he Ihould avoid the defuitory mode of ar
gumentation that had been run into on both
fides, and confine himfelf to the nature of the
ladls charged, and the evidence adduced in fnp
port of them. The ftiort time that yet remain
ed of the session, was too precious to waits in
collateral arguments, or the coniideration of
merely presumptive proofs.
The firft charge in the resolution now before
the committee, was, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has violated the law palled on t'nq
of August 1790, making .appropriations of cer
tain monies authorised to be borrowed by the
lame law, in the following particulars, to wit:
"• ift. By applying a certain portion of the
principal borrowed, to the payment of interest
falling due upon that principal, which was not
authorised by that or any other law."
" 2d. By drawing part of the fame monies
into the United States, without the inftru&ion
of the President."
These fpecific charges make it necefTary for us
to understand determinately the terms of the ait
mentioned in the resolution, and the nature of
the proof offered in its support.
By the ait of the 4th Augufl 1790, fecft. id,
—" The PreGdent of the United States i» autho
rised to cause to be borrowed, a Aim or Turns not
exceeding in the whole ia,600,000 of dollars;
and that/m much of thii sum as may be neeeffary
to the disc harge of the arrears of inteteft onloans
heretofore made by the U. States in foreign
countries, and the lnftalments of she principal
of the said foreign debt, and sis it could be effcß
tdupon termi to the United Statei,} to
the paying off the whole of the laid foreign debt,
be appropriated iolrlv to thefe.purpo"is, and the
President was moreover further authorised tb'caufe
to be made fucb other contract refpeftittg ihe ftitd
debt as should be found for the interest of the
laid dates."
It is asserted by the prosecutor of these charges
that this a& contains an emphatic appropriation
333
of (lie whole of the 11,000,000 of dollars to the
payment of the foreign debt.
(By a letter to Mr. Short of 9th May, 1791,
read in the committee, it appears, that a loan of
3,000,000 ot florins had been made; and that
one half only was appropriated to the payment
of our debt to France ; and that 800,000 florin#
was to be drawn to this country. This was
said to be contrary to the terms of the appropri
ation, and without anthority; and the Secreta
ry's report of Jan. 3d, 1793, sol. j, was referred
to,in proof of the fadt—"that the interest anting
on the principal borrowed under this a<ft, was
paid out of that principal," when by the fame
law, part of the domestic jevenues of the United
States, was appropriated to that purpose : The
words of the report are, "payments on account
of other foreign loans made and to be made to
.the firft Jan. I793,inclufively.
Feb. 1, 1791, 489,783, flor'ns 6 stivers,
with several other payments on the lame terms,
till Jan. ill, 1793, amounting in the whole to
1,833,189 florins, 1 stivers, 8 den. These pay
ments were asserted to be on account of intareft
on the principal borrowed, but without further
proof.
By the?cport,fol. 4,it appearithatonthe ift
Z79o,tJwtt! was borrowed no more than
1,16] ,000 florins, on which was due tke Ift of
Feb 1791, one year's interest, amounting at 5
per cmt. to 58,350 florins j but this evidence
prbvis that 289,783 florins were paid on that
day. Can gentlemen be serious when they as
sert tlat this was for interest on this principal
borrowed being almost 25 per cent, per annnm,
infteaS of five. This certainly is an inattention
to the fubje<S that the serious nature of the
ch.irjc, cannot juftify.
Ml. B. then asserted that on a critical examin
ationof these itemi, they will be found to be
inftahients of the Dutch loans made by the old
Conjfreis; and which this money was expressly
appropriated to discharge.—But lAt. B. said he
did tot mean to avoid the fa&, had it been
provd, but he denied that any evidenee so ita •
roi'efrom thisteftimony.
Tie Prcfident Was generally authorized to
mafci the loans Money arising from a domes
tic find was appropriated to pay the interest. It
happened that this loan was made in Europe, to
the amount of 3 millions of florins :—Part of it
was to be drawn to this country, but before that
efeMiflteteft became tine \ this was paid out of
the monies intended to be drawn into this coun
try, and re-paid by the fund here, to prevent
the unnecessary fending the monies from one
country to the other.
Mr. B. a Iked, if the Secretary of the Treafu
fury hid ailed otherwise, would any man
in his senses have thought him worthy of the
trust committed to him ? But the gentlemanhas
proceeded on this charge, (and has so expressed
himfelf) as if this loan was exclusively made un
der the a<£t of the 4th August, mentioned in the
1 efolution before us, and therefore was wholly
appropriated by law to the payment of the fo
reign debt,and ought not, in any part, to have
been drawn into this country for other purposes.
This brings to consideration the adt of the 12th
August, 1790, pafled eight days after the a eft
1 alluded to. By the 4th fc&ion of this adl, " the
President of the United States is authorised to
causa to be borrowed, a sum or sums not exceed
ing t,000,000 of dollars at an interest not ex
ceeding 5 per cent; and that the fame (hould be
applied to the purchase of the debt of the United
States. The difference between these a<sts was,
by that of the 4th of August, the President had
a discretion as to the application of she sum bor
rowed towards payment of the whole of the fo
reign debt over and above the inftalmentt, de
pending upon terms of advantage t» the United
. States.
By the second ast, there was 110 discretion,
the whole monies being positively direifted by
law to be applied towards the purchasing of the
domestic debt. By the firtl there was no restric
tion in point of interest to be paid, but an in
junflion that the terms of repayment should be
stipulated within 15 years—By the second inter
est was re drifted to J ler cent, and no terms of
repayment enjoined. By the preamble to the
firft law, the object of it appears to be the do
ing of justice, and supporting the public credit
by the payment of the foreign debt"—by that of
the fecund, " the reduction of the public debt,
which would be beneficial to the creditors of the
union by railing the price of their stock, and be
produilive of favingsto the U. States."
% virtue ofthefe a&s the. President thought
pro|ier to conflitute the Secretary of the Trea
sury his agent to make the loans; and according
ly on the 18th August I7yo, by a commission
under hie hand and seal, reciting both the faid
lawe, authorised him, " ty bimjelf or any other
ftrfon or perjens generally, to borrow ivttlin tie
V. Statu or elfnuhere,a sum or films not exceed
ing in the whole 14,000,000 of dollars, subjeCt
to the rellri&ions and limitations in the said fe
ver&l a<9s contained.
Wit h this commission the Secretary received
inftru<ftions retoite to the fa id lom« in thef:
words: borrow or cau e to be borrow
ed, on the bill terms which (hall be found prac
ticable, and within the limitations prcfiriiKd by
law as to the time of repayment, and rate of in
[Whole No. 406~
tereft of filch sum or funu as (h:»ll be fufficient m
discharge as well all instalments orjKirH, of the
principal of the foreign debt, lulnch noir arc due
or (hall becnme payable to the cud ofitc year 179 I,
as all interell and arrears of interest which now
are or Jhall become one in ref|)*<£t to the said deb:
to the fame end of the year 1791—And youjiatt
"fPh or ca "fi to I" a fplied the monies which ihali
be so borrowed, w'ith alt convenient dispatch to
the payment ot the said iuftalments.and parts of
the principal and interefi:, and arrears of the in
terest of the said debt. Ton Jhall not extend the
amount of the faiJ loan beyond the sum ivbicb Jhall he
nrajfary for comfleating fuck payment, unleis upon
terms hiore advantageaus to the United States,
&c. &c.
Thefc institutions related folelyto the a plica
tion of the iz,ooD.ooo, the j,OOO,000 as before
observed, being applied by law without any dis
cretionary power to the reduction of the public
debt.
Under this commission it is ill proof the Secre
tary caused 3,000,600 of florins to be borrowed
in Europe generally, \ ♦bout exprefiing particu
larly under which law, but reciting them both.
He directed half of this lira to be applied to the
payment of the foreign debt and part of the other
naif he appropriated for the piirpbfcs mentioned
towards the reduction of the publit debt. But
it is insisted. that the whole of this money was
borrowed, under the aift of the 4th August, and
therefore if was highly criminal to apply any
part of it to the discharge of the interest ariiing
on the principal so borrowed,' there being ano
ther fund designed for that purpose. But it has
clearly appeared, that the Secretary made tliis
loan in Europe, where the inteteft was to be paid
and had become due ; the fund for its payment
was in this countiy, and therefore if he'was
authorized to draw any part of that principal
into the United States, it was a mere produc
tive and economical operation, to pay the filter
ed there out of those monies on the fp'ot, and
repay them out of nionies here, where they were
to be applied and by that means present the lois,
of insurance and interest, that mat have arose
by any other negociation. This question then
depends wholly ou the fail, whether this mo
ney was borrowed by virtue of both aifts or un
der that of the nth of Aug. exclusively.
The loan was made at 5 per centi fubjeA to
charges and douceurs of 4 and a half per cent, on
the whole. The Secretary thought this within
the a<sl of the ixth of August, limiting him to
an interest not exceeding s per cent.—This was
the opinion of others beiides the Secretary. Mr.
Boudinot himfetf had been of that opinion, and
at the time thought an application to the legifla
tur; unngceflary. But the prudence and caution
of the Secretary led him to state this fail to
Congiefs for their consideration and determina
tion, who by an ail of the 3d March 1791, de
clared their sense of the act of the nth August,
and that the loan was legal]y made under that
a&. The preamble to this a A removes all doubt
on this question : " Whereas it bath been htale
known tv Congre/i, that tho President of the Unit
ed States, in consequence of an aSi making pro
viftonfor the redußian of the public debt, (this is
that of the nth of August) hath canfed a cer
tain loan to be made in 'Holland, on a'ccotifit of
the United States, to the amount of 3 millions
of florins, bearing an interest of 5 per cent.' &c.
And whereas it hath been also stated to Congress,
that the charges upon said loan have amounted
to 4 and an half per cent, whereby a doubt hath
arisen, whether the said loan be within' the
meaning of the said last mentioned ads, which
limits the rate of interest to 5 per cent, per an
num. And whereas it is expedient that the said
doubt should be removed—be it enabled, &c.
that the loan aforefaid fliall be deemed and "con
strued to be within the true intent and meaning of
the said afl, making provijton for the reduction of the
public debt, &c."
This then puts an end to any dispute on this
fubje'A, and if this money w >s borrowed under
both a(Ss jointly or excluiively urtder the a6l of
the Ilth Augud, there can be no propriety or
juflice in the charge, that the Secretary had vio
lated the a<st of the 4th of August, in applying
part of this money to the purposes of the adt of
the nth of August, under which the loan, as to
a greater sum, was certainly made By this ail
also the opinion of the Secretary of the meaning
of the act of the I zth August, as to the reftriai
on of the interest to 5 per cent, was confirmed,
and of coui fe all his proceedings under it. There
can then be no foundation for the charge, and
it remains anliipported by proof.
The next part of the accusation attempted to
be lupported, was the drawing part of the fame
" monies into the United States without iriflruc
tions from the President." The inftruaiont
from the PrefiHent As to the making the loanjß
and applying th«m were only called for, he ha*
therefore only reported these to the houfe—from
this negative testimony it was prefumcd that no
othxr iiiftriiSions have been given. This in
weak support indeed, to a criminal chbrge
nfthis nature. I know it has been urged by one
gentleman (Mr. Mercer) that the Secretary has
been called upon for the in'rudions, and if he
has failed to report them to the houfc, he ought
to fuffi-r—Till , ilio vs how fallible gentlemen'*
memories are. Tnere tus been no cull -Whatever•f the f.oufe or tlie Secretary for this purpuje—
our Journals do nut (how any. The rtquifition,,
was to the President, and he has complied witii
the terms of it. But if we are to reit on pre
sumptive evidence, the presumption is in favour
of the Scrctary. The Prcfidei»t has yot made
objections to the condu& of his agent. He has
mentioned the loans to Congress, without dii
approbation. The agent was properly account
able to him, and he Jus not found fault with
him ; but in hit fpecch at the opening of this
and the Lift feflion of Congrtis, has
exprefled great fatisfadion in the (late of
public ailair . But if the gentlemen who advo
«ate this prokcution, really believed this fad,
badthey .it not in their power to have rendered
the evidence certain »to demonstration, by re
queuing by resolutions of the houfej that the
President would declare * whether this money
was or was not drawn in eonfequence of his io
ftrudions, or with his approbation and consent.
Can any man suppose, that so responsible an a
gent as the Secretary of ti*e treasury would pre
sume (for his own fake) to proceed in so im
portant negotiation, without the knowledge, ap
propation and directions of the President of the
United States. But for argument fake,'fuppofe
the fad to be true , is not the Secretary an offi
cer to fuperintehd the colledion of the public
revenue? As soon as this loan was made under
the ad of the i uh of August, was it notjiis du
ty without further inftrudions, to draw the
money into States for the purposes
mentioned in the ad 4 would he not have bfeen
highly culpable if he had left , this money in
Holland tUI the next feflion of Congress, aqd
' waited for a law authorising him so to io? It i»
really a rcfledion oil-the whole, to
fnppofe they would have direded a loan which
Ihould remain Iriadive on an interest of 5 per
cent, without giving a 1 ,>ower of application.
But it lias been aid tnat a larger sum, viz,
almost 3 milliohs of d liars, has been drawn
inco this country, which wq's more than tht
President himfelf was authorifcd to do. If this if
meant to criminate tlie Prefidfcnt, we ought t<
know it. How does the fad stand? It is agree<
that the President had a right to draw the mo
flies loaned under act. of the .... .. ;;
iath August, - z,000,60p
He had a righttoinake such. other
contrads refpeding the; debt, as
fliould be for the interest of the
United States;, in vConfe4Uehce
whereof, the- ?gent in Europe a
greed with the national alTembly
or the executivecf France, for the
payment of 4 millions of livres
part of their debt, in the produce
of the United States, ioi the jfup
piy of St. Domingo f which made 800,000
The interest .to foreign officers a
' mounted toabout
*.99'>.)'<> 9°
This then makes about the fuift that it is proved,
was drawn for by tha Secretary, and fhpws that
he did not exceed the powers hefted in the Pre
fldent for tKis ptirpofe. *
It hat been also held up as highly criminal in
the Secretary, that altho'he began to draw for
this money ill Dec. 1790, . yet hfr -oever gave
information to CoDgrefs or to the trustees for
purchasing the public debt on the fubjedj but
left them wholly in the dark with refpe<£t to so
important a measure, when it was his duty par
ticularly to have kept the house conflantly in
formed, and that this could only have happened
for the purpose of covering some improper de
. sign, or aiding individuals tvith the public mo
nies of the United States.
To this charge Mr. B. said he had paid seri
ous attention; for as on the one hand he would
ever be ready to bring every defaulter in public
office, however exalted in charaifter, to condign
punishment, where found guilty; on the other
hand, he wiihed ever to be fourd giving full sup.
port to every good officer of government against
unfounded charges of peculation and mifinanage
ment of the public revenue. He had fatisfied his
Qundop thisfubjedl, Dot beitag-able to find a
scintilla of evidence to support the charge, but
abundant testimony to the contrary. First, Con
gress knew that this money was appropriated
to the payment of the debts in .this country- —
that the loan was made in Holland, and there
fore that it mull neieffarily be drawn here for
the purposes of the a<3t.—idly, by the report of
thetruftecs of the finking fund, sol. 12, under
date of the 25th August 1790, is the following
entry, " It is provable that it will be deemed ad
visable to pay the interest for the year 1791 on
the amount of the foreign debt, out of foreign
loans—There is one now matured for the ac-
ceptance of tile United States, amounting to 3
millions of florins : the proceeds of "which may be
at command in the course of the present year. The
expediency of an acceptance of the loan, and of
an application of one third of it, to the purpose of the
d£?i for the reduction of the public debt, is under
the confiderathn of the Pre/ldent of tie United
States. Alexander Hamilton, Sec.of the treasury.
This entry affords strong presumption against all
the suggestions of the want of inftruiftiqns from
the President, or his ignorance of the proceed
ings of the Secretary.
3d. The speech of the President delivered to
both houses of Congress on the Bth Dec. 1790,
has the following paragraph : " fn conforming
to the powers v fted in me by the ast? of the
last fefiion, a loan o> three millions of florins, to
ward- which some provisional measures had
previously taken place, has been completed in
Holland."—" The Secretary of the treasury has
my di're&ions to communicate such further far
ticulars as may be requifits for more precise in
formation."
4th. the report of the Secretary in conformi
ty to that direction dated 24th February 179!,
mentioning terms of the loans and application
of monies.
j'th. The preamble of the nil of 3d March
*791, already read.
•tlx. In the rep&rtdE the Secretary of the*rsf
fuiy of the receipts and .expendit^*/rom the
commencement of the government to tjv; of
Dec. 1751 ijthe following article of receipts.
Fouign Loans. . -
Fromrbe Hrefidenf ,dire<9urt Jt Co.
. of the bank of North . America,.
being the produce of bills of ex
change, drawn on the agents for
negociating foreign loans in Hol
land, - . up,z6f, 47
From President, director* & Co.
of bank of New-York, being the
produce of biH» of exchange, ' : ■
d/awn on the agents aforefaid,' 87
Dolls. 3*1,35 134
7th. Inthetreafurer's account,cnjtimtpcirjg ift
Jan. 1793, and endinggon the 3 ift March i 79fl>
are found the following entries of receipts: ,c
" On the proceeds of bills of exchange drawn
on Willhem & Jan Willink, Nicholas & Ja
cob Van Staphorfl &Htibbard, of Ai&fterdam,
on account of loans made for the United
States, p«r statement, Dolls. 401,902 89
In this account, commencing on ift April 179 2,
and ending on the 30th June J 791:
" On the proceeds of bills of exchange &c. in
fame words, - - 1,140,000
Inhis account commencing the firft July 1791,
and ending oa the 30th Sept. 179 2.:
" On the proceeds of bills of exchange &c. itj
fame words, - 1,000,000
Mr. Boudinot > after reading these vouchers,
proceeded. TJ)sfe,Mr. Chairman, ue the fa&s
that have convinced my mind, at firft much
alarmed at the severity of the charges and the
ppfitive assertions of gentlemen, that difcovcries
would be made, (hewing corruption at the very
heart of the government, these have convin
ced me fully, that this proTecutfcn has been
raftily brought forward without i proper exa
mination of the tranfa&ion. My mind, in a
confciehtious research into the fa&s, his hot
been able to raise a doubt on which to, found
even a suspicion of the integrity or abilities of
the Secretary in this whole negociatton So far
am I from considering those charges ftppoj-ted
by testimony, that I consider the conduit of the
officer concerned in this tranfa&ion jot only
whoHy cleared up,but the measures hehas pur
sued, as (lamped with wisdom and officii Jcnow
ledge. So far am I from judging hin reP**e
henfible for the manner in he h;s nego
ciated and applyed these loans, that I tlink him
deserving of the thankful approbatitn of tlis
country, for his economy and ftri& att:ntion to
the true interests and credit of the United
States. I rejoice, Sir, that after so Full and
zealous an investigation, this officer, tbugh un
heard\ appears to be free from even a iifpicion
of mal-condu& in the whole tranfa<fti*n; this
is not only honorable to him, but does credit; to
our country. On the whole, therefois; lam
decidedly of opinion against the prefen.'refolu
tions, and (hallgive them my hearty negative.
be continued."] |
191.316 90
For the GAZETTE of UNITED ST.
Mr. Fenno, | ~
AS Charges against the executive bfncers
of thi general government haVei lately
become fafhionable, I beg leave through your
paper to lay the inclosed refollitions before
the Houfeof Citizens of the United States.
What I really am, is a matter of no con
sequence to any one—*but I profess to be a
mart of great candour and to be influenced by
no motive beside that of the public good ; I
am clearly of opinion that capable servants
are dangerous to the public fafetv—that they
Ihould often be charged with maladmfniftra
tion, either before, or without the produc
tion of evidence, (imply to introduce the good
ly principle of rotation in office—that when
they obtain influence by eminent abilities and
ufefuTnef', the, United States (hould adopt
the Athenian plan and fubjeft them to irre
vocable ostracism—that when violations of
official duty are charged, there (hould always
be a promise on the part of the to ac
knowledge his error when proved, l>u| every,
care (hould be taken to elude performance
whatever proof may be produced on the part
of the accused ; in (hort I fully acquiifce in
the doctrine of old Hudibras, and make it uiy
invariable pra&icethat
" H'tien convinced againjl my witt,
" I'm of the fame opinion JiilL" •
These with the principles contained Sn the
following resolutions are mine, and 1 hold
myfelf to be as (launch a democrat as any the
dominion can produce. MARAT.
ARTICLES OF
Impeachment againjl Alexander Hamilton,
C t ./' U.. T f--- "JL."*
Ift. RESOLVED, That every officer of
the United States who by talents and integ
rity—by important services and republican
manners, conciliates the esteem arid ajffeftion
of the people, " violates the law" of equality
—;s an aristocrat*—exposes the coujifels of
the United Spates to confifteiicv, liability, and
confidence, and therefore is highly reprehen
sible.
2d, Resolved, That a violation ofthelaw
of equality is the violation of tl* people's
right, which requires that every free man,
fliould enjoy the privilege of despising tafents
—degrading worth and demolilhing reputa
tion, by resolutions nninveftigated and un
founded.
3J. Resoxved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has been guilty of a violation of this
law of equality. 1. By his long and diftin
guiflied Ibrvices during the late war. a, By
his indefatigable exertions to effect the efta
blilhment of the federal government. 3. Bv
his fidelity and industry in the discharge of
his present office, by which he has obtained
the confidence and efteera of his fellow-citi
zens, and is likely from his talents, virtues,
O J- — ~ ~ " --
Secretary of the Treasury.
334
anrf Cervices, ta wtr/hmdow ot?ter mtn . wTlfl
have a Statt-clum- to greater importance than
hijnfijlf.
. 4th. Resol-ved, That it is reasonable to
perfume that the Secretary of thG . T rea '* ,r y
has deviated from the inftmftionj of the Pre
fidcnt.—Becggfe the Prefiderit who is Angu
larly inattentive to the conduct of hU agents
and univerfaily reeardleft of the public inter,
eft, has omitted to enquire into the measures
the Secretary has purlued, but has knowing
ly fuffered him contrary to express orders, to
mifmina'e tholie public finances, which Con
gress had confidentially charged to the Presi
de nt'j care.
' jth. Hesoiv»s, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has omitted M discharge an essential
duty of his office vt» failing to givi the citi
zen? of th s honfe, at onre, inforrtiation ofhij
irteafures, and capacity to tinderftind them—
tljat Be hasTaid too little for those who wifli
to det«& h : m in errors and contradifHoni:—-
yet lo "much as to bewilder thbfe who are "too
indolent to examine the reports with atten
tion.
6th. Resolved, That the Secretary has ex
officio, and without inftrutftions ventured to
promote the interest of the United States, by
construing a doubtful authority according to
its spirit, without adhering to what some
deem the ftri<st letter—that he has thus avoid
ed a manifeft absurdity—has saved fomt thou
sands of dollars, which fliould have been fa
crificed for the hflnor of government—and
that he has "omitted todifcharge an eflential
dotv of his office in filling to give infoi mar
tion" of these services, where a detail of them
was fnperfluOiKi or would possibly either have
been forgotten or mifreprtefeu ted, had they
been communicated.
7th. Rf.solVeo, That " the Secretary of
the Trea'ury did not consult the public in
terest" by borrowing a sum of money at J pr.
cent, of the Bank, when it might nave been
had elsewhere at 7 and upwards—that he ap
plied this to the support of public credit by
paying demands on the federal Trealbry as
they became due, instead of relying for this
purpose on funds already appropriated, or on
bonded duties, payable at a remote period.
Bth. Resolved, That the Secretary has been
guilty of an indecorum to the citizens of this
House, in prefumin? to judge for himfelf, on
fHfts obvious l 6 every one—in obliquely ftig
gefting, that he wa* capable of diftinguiflilng
between motives and public good, and private
envy—for defending himfelf in too independ
ent a manner againlt charges of corruption—
for proving certain wild statements of his
own accounts to be " one tiflue of error"—
for comprehending the true import of orders
he had received, and failing to obtrnde in
formation, for which he had never been call
ed on.
9th. Resolved, That he be convicted of
these charges without a hearing; that lie
therefore be adjudged a dangerous minister,
and difmifled from office—becaufe bis " ad
mtniftration" instead of " disgracing Pande
monium" will probably ensure him too much
confidence and popularity in violation of true
democratical equality, and in prejudice of
certain " pure and virtuous characters," who
would fain rife upon the ruins of his reputa
tion.
sr-1
Fer the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
Princeton, March 15, 1793.
The fsllowing is an extrafl from a letter lately
" TN Mr. Fenno's paper of the 13th March,
X there is a Speech of one of the members of
the National Convention of France, that con
tains sentiments which must excite disgust and
horror, in every mind, not wholly debauched
and hardened. They aie uttered by a M.
Dufont, and applauded with (bouts of accla-
mation by almost the whole convention.—
What! (he exclaims) Monarchies are extirpated
—thrones arc overturned— and sceptres are bro
ken to pieces—Kings are-no more; yet the
altars of God remain. Shame to the enlightened
spirit of Frenchmen 1 Will you permit still to
exist these ignominious monqments of our igno
rance -ari4 r np(s ? You have freed your coun
try from the bondage ot execrable tyrants;
rtfeue them alio from tjie infamous dominion of
fuperjlition, that enfbjves aud ftVackles thq mind.
Nature and Reason—these ought to be the Gods
of man—these are my Cods. Kings and Priests
are leagued in one cursed design—-and the cursed
fnftrument' of the latter, is eternal fire. " 'Let
others tremble at this terrifi bugbear. As for
me, I despise it ; as for m\felf, I here honestly
confefs to this AlTembly, lam an Atheifi. '
<l What are we to think of such an open avow
al of fentimenis, so absurd and so ruinous. From
the thunders of applauses with which they were
received, they appear not to be confined to a
finale breast. They expre/sthe feelings,,'the ge
nuine and undisguised feelings, the t greater
part ol the Convention. Heaven defend us from
such corrupted and mifchievou* principles.
May our manners be preserved simple, and our
morals pure—and may weeftabhfh our national
fafetv and gTbry in national ftrift justice and un
affc&ed piety. May we reprobate the folly
and wiCkedness of the wretch who dares to
question the existence of that Providence, whose
arm was so lately and so mamfeftjy bared for our
defence and happiness. May we not be asham
ed publicly W declare to the world that we are
the humble and grateful warfhtppers of the
" only living and true God." For myfelf, were
the aflfcmbled universe before me, I would not
blush to acknowledge, that I conceive it my dif
tingui(hed privilege, my highest honor and uu
fpeakable delight, to know, avow, and love,
that Being who reigns iu heaven and rules upon
the earth."
FROM THE AUGUSTA CHRONICLE.
Iranian might conclude, a Correspondent
obferyes, on the posture of our affairs the
administration of the general government,
even the integrity of our pnreft characters,
from fume inflamatory northern writers, lie
received.
ainft Umrof t«j ouf Wn ßit;<»h inwtrie*-
. ' ® Tlt < n >. »nd a combination formed to
.mpof, oa the Uuifed States the fembl.uc'e of
v,.T° tl "!. r J eprdinUtio " U frper-added th.
hackneyed dirges of an army unpaid—fpeeu.
" t °. rs < - n nriched . foreign debts uncomplied
with, and, in a word, every brace and (pok.
tin ZITL ot government uufi, f or O L a .
, I ke J. y tycu u nti,, « »ntit couTaia.
the fu|>r ? me direction of,
republic to whole principle, tl*y were, and
ever will remain opposed.
Tho'every f,||able of this is re fl, tsd and
laughed at yet it is the duty of every good
PRF« of a FREE.
PRESS, that meftiinable ENGINE of p„oii C
happinef.,re(er ve d for tlie Ul ages of th«r
woi ld, f'k»ar to notice such predutfipns as to
preserve as much as pollible, within the ex
tent of his own circle, every good. citiwA
from the baneful anarchical contagion intend'
to 'Pread trom the uViiiMu labors of tlwfe
ingtnwus mm, so eager to change the whole
lyltem to have it administered on new prin
ciples and for sinister purposes.
EXTRACT Jrom Dr. HENRY's HISTORY.
I W ?'"• continuc to he a rapiol ani
' ,° >he internal and foreign trade of
Britain. When a., eftatc w, s conveyed f ° f
one proprietor to another, .if the villa, ns „
fuyes annexed to that cftate were conveved«
thtj'fame tithe, and by the fame deed. VVhe<i
any person had more children than h. could
Maintain, ot more domcftic Oaves than he chose
to keep, he fold them to a merchant; who dif.
posed of them either at home or abroad, as h e
found would be moll profitable." ft was*
common vice, (fays Gir.ldus Cambrenfts) „f the
EnglilH when -thev were reauced to
that rather than endure it patiently, they «pof c d
their own children to sale. Many of thele an
happy persons were carried into Irehnd, a»d n»
doubt into other countries, and there fold \
ftmng law was made against this barbarous'kind
of commerce, in a great council held at Si Pe
ter's Weftminfter,A. D no,. no m ,„;
for the future, presume to carry on the wicked
trade of felling men in markets, like brute
beads, which h.ihcrto had been the'common
o.ftom of England." But this law did not put
»n end to the trade in slaves. For in the e.eat
council held in Armagh, A. D. i, 7« the whole
clergy ot Ireland, after having deliberated lon»
concermngthecaufeofthecalanmies with which
they were threaiened, by the itiv.fion of th»
Engli Ih, at length agreed, that (he great judgment
had been lntlifled upon them by the difoleafure
of God, for the fins of the people ; particularly
for their having bought so great a number ol En.
glifh Oaves from merchants, pirates and robbers,
and for detaining them fti!) in bondage. The*
therefore decrced, That alUhe Enfcllftj slaves in
ths whole island of Ireland, (hould be immedi
ately emancipated, and reflored to their former
liberty."—Hiftoty <5f England, vol, 6. p. 267,
268, 269. \ , *
■ A. .... .6
Foreign Affairs,
By the Slip Favourite, arrived on Monday LJl t J rm
' \ . ! " Liverpool.
I'M" L EPST.ADT, Dec. j 4 .
THE day before yesterday arrived here M.
Fayette, and his companions, under the
escort of two commiflioned officers and ten fa.
balterns. They set out from hence yesterday on
their "way to Magdeburg.
VIENNA, Dec. 16.
Accounts have been received at Prefburgh, in
Hungary, that the Porte is resolved te take the
field againit Ruflia. Near Akiertnan in Baffsra
bia, 20,000 Ruffians are Rationed, and 25,000
more near Choczim, to watch thc4t)oti®ns of the
Turks.
WARSA W, Dec. 22.
Letters from Cherfon state, that the Ruffiat\j
are filling out a fleet at Sebaftapool; to meet ths
Fr< nch, who Wish to appear with a formidable,
flcet beforc Constantinople.
B E R L I N, Dec. 29
By a Courier who arrived here on the 24th
from the received ccrtarin intellu
gence, that his Majesty will pass the winter with
his troops. He will probably stay some da)j
with the Landgrave of Heffc Caffelj but he in
tends by his presence to hasten and dire£l the
dispositions for another campaign against the
French. It will be carried on with the utmost
vigour, and the court of Vienna will make efforts
proportionate to the greater intcrefts which
has in the war. The forces of the two powers
will afii separately, but they wiJI probably be
augmented by troops from the principal Germa
nic States ; for it appear* there will-be no diftioA
army of the empire, and that the cohimgents of
the different Princes will serve with the Auflrian
and Piuflian troops.
PARI S, Jan. &.
This morning the Convention decreed, thil
till the resumption of the trijal cf XVF.
which is postponed till Monday next, they will
attend fpiely to the subsistence and the doathing
of the army.
NATIONAL CONVENTION, Jan. 5.
Marefchal Luckner, detained at Paris by a de
cree of the Convention, obtained to-day the pcr
miffion of retiring wherever he plealcd.
Manuel read a Ifft Of the new members of the
committee of General Safety. The names of
Chabot, Talien, fngrand, and others of the fame
(lamp, were no longer in it.
Marat cried out, as he heard it read, that there
was a conspiracy againlt the good citizens ; an 4
the afletnbiy laughed.
Paine was expected-" to deliver his opinion
yesterday on the trial of Louis, but had not an
opportunity. H's opinion, which is well known,
is t that Loujs should be kern m fate custody du
ring the war, and then baniihed from theterru
tories of tbe Republic.■ *- tf) M JD.-OiH, J*uuv* f !
. Ye&erday-w»»ihe day oftwhietiioeilyationai
Contention, were to <Uitnr»ii|f, .at lea'ft . how the
«rtp*.flvould be toileted lor the Vela- ~.
tive to the persecuted Loan. Ftoin their deter- 'I
jninitjflp off his gueftioo hit tjte'may
{ceil. It the vrnet areto becolleEted openly, il\_
jt meant tliat the members /fltould be' deteri cd:
from giving wtat they call'a pardon ; if other
«ifc| he vyilfbe feved. j ■
All the fpeifcera who have hitherto "given their
npinious on the trial of Louie XVI. seem unani
inbusin th'e conviflion of his guilt/butthey arc
divided as ta the policy of puttlug him to dealb.
The world is anxious to know what will be.riie
Jentimeots expressed by citizen EagaHte on thij
inteiefting fubjstt.
Lord Howe is .certainly, to command the
channel fleet. _ . .. .
By the advices at Lloyd's, thirty fail of
Eaft'ltidiamen are on their passage home ,
and, in caCe of hostilities breaking out be
tween this country and France in the course
■of two months, it is more'than probable, the
greater number of these valuable ships will
fall to the lot of our cruizers.
Government have determined upon forti
fying our Weft-India islands.
Mr. Dundas, we are informed, fnggefted
an id-a of the. Negroes upon them being em
ployed, instead of fending over, at a cpnfi
derable expence to the nation a fufficient
number of hands for that purpofej he has
consulted several of the firft merchants in
this city. \V$ understand that the ptan is
agreeable to them, and will be observed by
Government.
Commodore Gardner, whom, when,vie
. fiame him again, we (hall hope to call Admi
ral, has recommended to tjje Atininalty a
'plartfor the relief of those leainen who have
daims upon the bounty of government, but
cannot yet be admitted into Greenwich Hof
pita!.
Ydfterclay morning letters were received ac
<he Admiralty Oificc, Charing Croft, from
Commodore Murray, wfio iVnbw at anchor in
the Scheldt. They were sent ofTby the Goni
jnodore op ThurfdayJafl. The Frenclh gun
boats which lately entered the Scheldt, it now
turns out, proceeded but a little way, they
ran aground between high and low wat£r,and
the French quitted them in their (mail boats,
intending to return at high water ; but before
they came back, the Dutch had fairly thrown
a bank of earth round them. The Krcuch
finding it impOssible to move the. boats, have
defeited them.—No French veflels of.any
kind had either entered or quitted-the Scheldt,
from the time Commodore Murray anchored
tliere till'thedarte of his difpatclies.
<N">«
? March 2 o.
Jjv the Ship Tryafy (apt, Watts, in 39 daysJrom Lif
ion, the Joi lowing Intaejling Intelligence was rc>
teived.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Tuejdat, January 15. 4 .
The final judgment of
Louis XVI.
THE nominal call beingterminated, M. Verg
liiaux, the President, rof- 1 , and spoke as follows:
Out ol 735 voters, 66 bave been absent by
leave ; five by illness, one for cause unknown ;
26 have rtißile divers declarations; and 693 have
s»oted for the question in the affirmative—l do
declare., in the name of the Convention.
" THAT LOUIS CAPET IS GUILTY OF
JHIQH TREASON, AMD Of ATTEMPTS
AGAINST THE GENERAL SAFETY OF
THE STATE."
Here ihe second question was put,
" Shall tbe APPEAL tathe PEOPLETAKE
TLACE ?"
A great number of the members spoke for and
ihe appeal; an 4 almost evej.y one ■ot
tHem seemed apprebenfwe of all the coniplicatc.il
hoi rots of civil war. 1
When (.ouvet ana-Manuel gave rheir vote re
fpefting this question, ihey expressed in the
- Hi Deleft language,Mheir indignation at having
kratd Qne of the nearcft relatives of Louis vote
for his.death.
paon after M. EG ALITE came to vote on the
lecond question, he fa id—Hl only mind my
duty, and I do vole that the appeal lhall not take
place."
Clootz voted against the appeal.
The nominal call was determined at eleven
•'clock, and the following was the result;
Members absent
Members who did not. give their vote
-Sick Members
Absent Members without cause
■ iMs-nlhers.lot the Appeal
< Ulllihuragwcfl the An>Ml
Majority againfl ihe Appeal
Here Barren-, the Prifidem, rofc, and fajd:
« THF. NATIONAL CONVENTION
DOTH DECREE, THAT THE SENTENCE
WHICH IT SHALL PRONOUNCE UPON
LOUIS CAPET. SHALL NOT BE REFER
RED TO THE APPEAL OF THE PEOPLE!"
SENTENCE PRONOUNCED.
AGAINST
LOUIS THE SIXTEENTH.
PARIS, JAN. 17.
Thursdaynine in the Evening.
I am sorry it falls to my lot to communicate
10 you the moll diftreflini; intelligence of the
cv' iu which hat jufl taken place.
The National Convention after fitting near 34
hours, has just voted, thai the punilhment of
DEATH
S«Att KF. IKFLIOTSB ON HII
MOST CHRISTIAN MAJESTY.
Th'sunjuft and miquupua Judgment was car
ried by > majuiity of ipthcr mote than a hun
titty oC.thjs number, thoujjli they voted
for death, differed frohi the reft Sn
relped to thie time when it (hould be infh&ed,
some thinkinglhould not be put in execu
tion nil the end of the war, atid others propo
f»ng that it'rtioftM be postponed till the sense of
the people fhould'bc taken. Peiion and cnany
of the 1< riding members, voted for death with
' these reftri&ions.
Amazement and terror appear univcrfally to
prevail'; and the cocrfuftota of ihofc who are
known ro have been attached to the Royal Pr,i
foner, can more easily be imagined than dcfcri
bed. So great was the general terror during
'this long fitting of the Convention, that many
of the Members, who went tc the Hall on
Tucfday morning with a pofuive resolution of
saving the Ki/fg, if poltible, found tbemfelves
Compelled, by the most urgent motives of per- 1
for>al fafety, to vote against him. v j
There undoubtedly was great reason for «hts N j
apprehension ; for a most formidable mob was
collected, which openly threatened by -mme, , :
many of the members,, to murder them upon
the spot, if they did not vote for the death of
the Kio^.
I cannot cxprefs the horror which was paint
ed in the countenance of evety individual in
the National Convention, where the very woril
of mankind were aflembtW, 7 when \h€ .Duke of
Organs gave his vote for the death of his King
'and relation. Even Manuel, in a very proper
and spirited mannef attacked him upon ii.'-i-
This fexecrahle branch ot the4Joufe of B iurbon
has bad a remittance of more than 20,000 livres
sent to hitn from England, by wltich he is in
some measure enabled to defray the charge of
the Affaflms whom he afld- Roberfpi«fre have
oow.in, pay. ,
The Kinc 11 pir.jec.tly. ieconcilio
TO MIS F A T-1
The situation of her Majesty., Madame Eliza
beth, and the Princess Royal is melancholy in
deecj J , The latter has for some time been un
well ; and the indelicate couverfation which
took place in the convention, qpon her Majefly
applying for a physician, is not to be defejibed.
. The Dauphin is perfe&ly well and is universally
beloved.
Letters by the Tryal, fdi that the King of France
had feiitence pfbnounced upon him on the ijth Jah\
—and Was F.xecufed the i\fl, at 4 o y clock in the
morning, by Torch-fight—his Head being fevered
frovi kis Body y feil into d hole below the $cajfold>
and his liody was thrown ih after it.
Captain Watts left Lisbon the Jth of Feb. and be
.fore he faHeAfaw London papers containing the par*
ticulars of the Execution of Louis 16th.
Extra fl oj a letter from Lifbon> dated Feb. $th t in
elofing some English New/papers to the 22 d Jan.
received by the Trial.
" There are some frefher papers in town but we
could not get them. The unhappy and unfortunate
Louis the XVI. has filled up. the measures oj his mis-
Jortuncs, he was butchered an the 21JI of January in
a private manner, in confequenee oj a fenience of the
Convention 1 this bar bar oils, atlrocious ast, excites
horror and indignation, in every man's breast who is
not a mad-man. A general war is now lookedJ or as
a conjequence ojthisjlep."
Extratt oj a letter from a refpeflable mercantile
houfc m Lijhon, to their ' t ix
cit\ y dated February 8.
" We this day have received a confirma
tion that the King of France was executed
the 21ft of" January, and think that war is in
evitable."
Poftt'cript of a letter dated Lisbon, Feb. 5,
fays—" The death of the King of France,
who was beheaded, makes me change opinion
about.war, believing it impossible; and that
the only refpefted colours will be yours [the
American] in Europe. I am, Sic.
Accounts by the Perfeveranee, Capt. Boys,
who left Gibraltar the JJth February, fay,,
that the Governor (Boyd)had received official
accounts from Madrid, of the fate of Louis
the XVI.
Extrafl »J a letter from Gibraltar, dated February
12, 1793.
" We are still in a ft ate of uncertainty,
witb refpeft to war or pcace, but now the un
fortunate King of France is no more, having
been put to death on the 2ift ult. we thai)
Iban know what determination the powers of'
Europe will come to. Spain has agreed to
join Great-Brttaln ~amt Holland, against"
France, and are making great preparations
for war. The Algerines have declared war,'
against the Dutch, being dilpleafcd with the
last presents they ferit them—we have a strong*
squadron of Portuguese men of war here wait
ing, the Algerines fay there is 110 danger of
vessels under your colours coming to this
place."
A letter from Hifpaniola informs, that a fri
gate had arrived at Cape-Francoi» [rom France,
with advices, that the enormous expence of car
rying on, the War (amountihg to Five
Millions per month) had much
embarrassed the Government; that General
Cuftine had retired from Menu, and was en
camped near Landau, with two thirds of his
army; and that ihe Prussian and German forces
were colleiling in large numbers near him.
a
*83
4*4
280
The birth day of the President of the Uni
ted States was celedrated at Legiopville, by
the army under the command of General
Wayne, with those military honors and feii-i
live joy, becoming patriot-citizen-soldiers.—
Among other patriotic toasts given on the oe- J
cafion, were the following:
I. May our meeting with the Savages pr,«».
duce conviction to the world, that the Ame
rican Legion are the only troops proper to op
pole tbera.
S. Our Friend and Brother La Fayette —
May a generous nation forgive his errors (if
any) and receive him to her bosom.
Members of the House of Representatives
of the United States elected in South-Carolina;
Lemuel Benton, for Georgetown and Che
raws ; and
Alexander Gillon, for Beaufort and Orange
burgh Diftriits.
The following gentlemen have been elected
in tbeir refp«ftive DiftriQs, Representatives
335
in the Congreft of the United State 1 ;, fro'ni
the State of North-Carolina—viz. Thomas"
Blount, James Gillifpie, William B. Groves,
Alexander Mebantf, Matthew Locke, Joseph
Winlton, and Nathaniel Macon, Efquiies-
Ext<afi from thejfonjiderations and rcfolution en-'
tcrtd intoity the citizens of London, ajjimblcd -at
the irozun and Anchor Tavtrn.
" >We forefee, from recent experiment in
a neighboring country, that in the operation
of bringing to pass such a traniition, the lives
and properties of all persons in this illand
would be exposed to the arbitrary disposal of
felt-opinionated philosophers, and a wild and
needy mob, deluded and inftigatecl by them;
t«at with the introduttion of equality in rank
and fortune, an expe&ation would be raised
in the lower orders, which must firft be grati
,ne»l with plunder, and afterwards would fmk
into a state of disappointment and abje<st po-
Yp't v. \\hen all were equalized, there,would
1)0 longer be a fuperfluity to pay the hire of
,< ietvants, or purchale the productions of art
or manufacture ; no commerce, no credit;
no relburce for the active but in robbery, and
those public difoiders which make life
nlricrable. Thus would the present generati
on be certainly ruined; that which is to
tollbw, could not propof'e to itl'elf a remedy,
but in pursuing the fame arts of peace which
had been so capriciously abandoned : and the
more they prospered in that pursuit, the more
they would contribute to re-produce the ine
quality which had been before condemnedand
exploded. Where then -are the blessings of
this reform, and to What purpose is nufery to
be brought on the present generation !
" It is \Vith grief we fee, that in a neigh
bouring country, the carrying into prattice of
this wild doctrine ofEquality and the Rights
of Man, has already produced these evils, and
■ Others ten thousand times greater. It is not
yet publioly known, nor can it enter into the
gtntle heart of a Briton to conceive, the num
ber d(atrocious crimes against God and Man,
that have been committed in fopport, of these
opinions. Murders and aflafllnations have
been deliberately planned, and juftified byfome
of these pretended philosophers, as the means
to attain their ends of reform. With all their
pretences and promises, they have proceeded
to violate every right, civil and natural, that
fliould have been ohferved towards their
equals; the people, who have only changed
their mailers, groan under new tyrannies of
which they never heard or dreamed ; and are
fubjefted to the chastisement of one desperate
leader after another. The excefles of these
ruffian demagogues have no bounds; they
have already fin palled the wildelt phrenzies
of fanaticifm, superstition and enthufialm ;
plundering and murdering at home, and pro
pagating their opinions by the sword info
reign countries; imposture, tallacy, falfehood,
and blood died ; their philotpphy is the idle
talk of school boyj; and their a&ions are the
savage ferocioufnefs of wild beads.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
of Pennsylvania.
u ~ HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Friday, March 15, P. M.
The House resumed the consideration of
the further report of the committee of ways
and means, which had been postponed the
31ft Feb. last, and the following resolution
teing under consideration, viz. that £ 2 joo
. he granted for enlarging the* building for
. Congress; the fame was agreed, to—
Mr. Gallatin next moved to re-consider the
2d /efolution contained in the said report
viz. for granting £"7500 to complete the Pre
fidental house, which was proposed to be bor
rqwed on loan, reimburfeable out of a tax of
SO dollars, a night on each performance, at
the refpeftive Theatres in the city and coun
ty of Philadelphia, and in cafe of that not be
ing fufficicnt, the deficiency to be made up
out of the tax on pleasurable carriages in this
State; Mr. Gallatin's motion was tore-con
sider the above, in order to introduce the
, following in lieu thereof, viz.
That the house intended for the use of the'
President of the United States, together with
the lot ofground whereon the fame is erected,
to be veffied in the corporation of the city of
Philadelphia; provided that they fhal! pay
and difchargfc so much of the loan for 20,000!.
obtained from the bank of North-America, as
was applied to the purchasing of the ground
and ere&ing the house. That the duty upon
Vendues be granted for ever to the said cor
poration, with power to modify or repeal the
lame. That the said corporation be veiled
with the power to borrow a sum of money
fuflicient to complete the said house, and to
raise a tax upon the Theatre, or in such man
ner as they may think upon the
cWizem of Philadelphia, in order to pay the
lo#n thus obtained.
Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Hare, se
conded by Mr. Bradford, ordered, that the
{iid resolution be poltpaned until to-morrow.
BALTIMORE, March 14.
Yesterday arrived here, from Oporto, Por
tugal, which place he left the toth of" Februa.
- ry, Capt. Pell, of the Ihip Eagle; who informs,
that the day previous to his departure the pod
bad brought intelligence that the KING of
FRANCE WAS BEHEADED, and that the
report was current there, and generally be
lieved.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVEDaf Ms PORTo/PHII.ADKI.PHIA.
Ship Favorite, Heavyfide, Liverpool
Tiyal, Wain, Lifbou
Brig Hector, Baker, Port-au-Prince
Harmony, Dunphy, ditto
Swallow,
Chance,
Sloop Jason,
H?rrifi>a,
Charleston
Strong,
Cape-Francois
Beriiiudas
Virginia
Oswald,
Taylor,
Cambey,
MorfeV Geography,
fievtfedi correftik andgtdaily iktatgah tvim w*/iy
n&dttiviul M'a hij well-t'ngtutftt.
Iw a Il'w. weeks will be publinacd,
~Bv THOMAS W AN'DKI-.WS, F*uU'* S'^fue.
No, 45, Nrwbnry-Snccl, B 'ilocj,
in I uo Voiutr.es, -large Vflats.
A .NEW Edition of ihe fc 111 C A IN?
GEOGRAPHY: Uen> M i! )f Urge it
and ihc brft lyftcrii of Gfography rver pub*
lifted: Or a complete GEOGRAPHY of ihe
WORLD, brought down'to the pielcut tune.
in two parts.
The "General Content* Are—
PART I.—Of Astronomy, ascohnr&ed with,
and to the fcieo<:< Geography ;
under this head will be given au account (ji the
ievexal agronomical iylkms of ihe World, and
a particular description of thetrue one. A iah>e
of the diameters, periods, &c. of the fevcraj
Planets in the solar fyUcm—an account of the
Comet# and stars.
Of G eockapHy—its use and progress—
figure, magnitude and motion of the Earth—
Doflri'ne of the Sphere— Geographical circles—
Divifion.s of the Earth into zones and. climates
■—methods of finding the latitude and longitude
of places from celeiUal observations—Globe*,
and their use—with a number <6f the mofl ufe
ful and entertaining Geographical Problems and
1 heoiems—Maps, and their use-—sources of heat
and cold—theory of the wiods and tides —length
of miles in different countries—natural divisions
of the Eaith—account of the Gregorian 01 new
stile,
America—lts difcovfry by Columbus —.
general description of the Continent,-in which is
a lengthy difcuilion of the question, When,
whence, and by whom, was America firft peo
pled ? With a long and entertaining account of
Indians,ana the latedtfeoveries on the north
west cpaft, &c.~ North A>meicica—chrono
logical account of us discovery and fcttlenpent*,
its diviGons —Danish America, British
America, Unitid States of America—
general description ot them, including a history
of the late w»r, and rmuy wilier ufeful and cp
tertaining matters. South Amer i c a—us di
visions, particular defcripuon of its feveraJ pro*,
vincesand countries. Writ Inc-ia Islands,
'Set
*** This part of the work will, be illuftratei
by maps ot the coumnes defended, Iroin ih®
corre&cft copies.
PART ll.—Containing every thing client ia I
which is contained in the bed and laicll quarry
edition of Guthrie's and other British Geogra
phies, with (elections from celebrated naviga
tors, traveller* and tefpc&able authors of orher
nations, See.
Of Europe in general—its grand divisions,
particular geographical descriptions- of its seve
ral Kingdom# and Republics, See. Of Asia-*-
its fuuation, boundaries, general history, parti
cular descriptions of rtj fcveral divisions, See.
Ot Africa—its general history, boundaries,
grand divi(ions, See• Also, new difcovcrtej,
Terra Incognita, Geographical' Table, alphabe
tically arranged—Chronologic*! Table of re
markable events, difcovcries and inventions, lift
ot men of learning and genius, with oiher ufeful
mi feel I any.
%* This part will also be illustrated witb
maps of the countries described.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Author is fcnfiblc that the lirft edition
of his American Geography (which makes Part
I. of the above work) was in many instances de
fc£Hve, in others erroneous, and in fame offen
five. It has been his endeavour, as it was hie
desire, in theprefent edition, to fuppl'y tfie defi
ciencies, correct the errors, and meliorate the
often five pans of the last. To aflift him in this
b'ufinefs, he has received many valuable commu
nications from the heads of departments in fbe
general government, and from gentlemen of re
fpeftability in the fevcral Gates. The dcfcrip
tion of foreign countries (which composes Part
11. of the above work] has been earcfully com
piled from the mod approved writers on Geo
graphy, end ufeful information introduced from
•the discoveries of the latcft Navigators, Travel
lers, 3Qd refpe&able authors. Indeed,'no pains
n o rex penfc have been spared to render this work
the mod complete, accurate, and ufeful of any
ever offered to the public.
District o/Pennsy tva.nia, to wit.
"RE IT REMEMBERED, That on
( Seal. J the thirteenth day of March, in
Seventeenth year of the Indepenr
denee of the United States of America,
Thomas Dobson, of the said Diftiift, hath de«
posited in this Office, the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following, to wit.
41 An Enquiry how Jar the Puvijhment of Death
" w necejkry in Pennsylvania. With Notes and
M lllujlrationj. By William Bradford, Esq.
tl To which is added, an Account of the Gaol and
14 Penitentiary House oj Philadelphia, and of the
" interior Management thereof. By Caleb
41 Lownej, of Philadelphia,——— If we enquire
t " into the Lavfes oj all human Corruption f, we
" (hallfind thai tlpy proceed from the Impunity
" °J t a7 >d not from the Moderation oj Pu
u nijhments. 9 * Montcfq.
In-conformity to iht Ad of the Crrogrefjof
the United States, intituled, "An Ad lor Che
Encouragement ©f Learning, by fe curing thf
Cppifi of Maps, Chartj and Book*, to tfce As
thort and Proprietor! of fuefc Coptn, daring th«
Tiitoei {heftin mentioned." v - ,•
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Diflri£t of Pcnnfylvania.
(tT The above uiork it fold in Ctarlejlim bi
[I ill-,am Price Young ; Rtcbmond, by Archibald
Currie : Baltimore, h Jatr.es Rice ; f/eu-York,
by Thomas Allen : Bojion, by David IVefl.
PHILADELPHIA.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cer.ls, jBJ6
3perCenti, id/6
Deferred, lt j6
Full (liarei Bank 1". S. ij per cent.premTO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING HRkED.
HF. was tmpoited trom England in Novem
ber, fevenfern hundred and eighty-fix, and
is now tell years old ; be is a btiglit bay, with a
blaic,fifteen handsouc inch high, is wellform'd,
has a great deal ot bone and ftrcofcth, and Ins
aflion equal to any hoife. His coli» aie well
approved of in the different parts of the State
where he has flood, of which any person inclined
to purchase can inloim ihemfelves..——Enquire
of the Printer.
February 18, 1793. '
FOR SALE,
By the Suifcriler, « Walnut-Street Wharf.,
Bill or exchange
Madeira Wine,
Tit for immediate ule, in pipes & quarter calks,
TENERIFFEWINE, in pipes,
SHERRY WINE, in quarter cafVs,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proof,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Balea 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13-4 loch CABLE, 120 fa'.homs long.
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1793. e P 2m
TO be SOLD, OR LEJSED
FOR SEVEN OR TEN YEARS.'
THE FOLLOWING
HOUSES.
ONE on Walnut-ftieet, near Fourth-flreet,
23 feet front, has two parlours below, the
front one 2tj by 17J feet, the back parlour is
j8 by 14 feet. The front room up stairs is 26J
There are five good chambers in
this house, bcTide* the garret is divided into
three rooms, in two of them there are fire
place*.
The other House is 27 feet upon Walqut
ftreet, and 52 feet upon 4th street; there are two
good parlours below, one of them 25 by 20 1-2
feet, the other 25 by 18 1-2 feet, and seven com
plete bed-chambers; bcfides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largest house has also a
house-keeper's room. It is intended there fttall
be a communication from both of these houses'
to a neighbouring ice-house, fufficiently large to
supply 3 houses. Within 50 yards of these
houses, there will be compleat stables and coach
houses, for both houses ; they will be finifticd
in the most compleat manner, and the kevs
ready to be delivered early in the summer.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
other half may be paid by inftalmenis, Or the
whole may remain for 5 years, paying interest
and giving security on the premises.
For terms of sale or lease, apply to the Sub
scriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has Jor SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
sixteen (hillings and fix-pence, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS,that will contain two
_ i—ir i
and a half and ihree and a half bushels.
Philadelphia, Jan. ig, 1792. ep2m
City of Wafliington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will be of- 1
fered for faJe at au&ion, by the Commif-]
fioners, on the 17th day of September next.—!
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly iutercft on the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Com'rs.
Extract of an A£l of the General Aflembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Washington.
41 Be it enacted, That any foreigner may by
deed or will, hereafter to be made, take and hold lands
within that part of theJaid Territory which lies with
in this State % in the fame manner as if he mas a citi
zen of this State ; and the fume lands may be con
veyed by him t and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and thiey, were citizens',
of fhp State: Provided, That no joteigner Jbal/jj
in virtue hereof be entitled to any fur they or othen
privilege of a citizen."
Jan. 19,
Insurance Company.
AT a general meeting (by adjournment) ofj
the Insurance Company of North-America,
on Wednesday the 16th inrtant,
It was Resolved,
THAT the Instalments which, according to
the Constitution, vyill become due on the (econd
Monday of July aud January next, or either of
• them, may be paid by any Stockholder at an'
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so paying
such instalment, or inftalmcnts, shall receive a
proportionate (hare of the Dividends thereafter
to be made, calculating such (hare from the firft
day of the month succeeding such payments re-t
fpe&ively. Extract from the Minutes,
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry,
Phi)adelph<a t Jan. 23.
NEW T E A S.
IMPERIAL, HYSON&SOUCHONG
Ofth e very firft quality,and 1 ateft importation)
From Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
N. B. A few Boxes of the above HYSON for sale.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksehers,
MOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & CRUtiSHANK,
ah urdtnanct J or ft curing the ptinflual
Payment of the Mtn'tts due on the
Subscriptions to the Society for efta
bliflung Ufeful ManufaCtu res.
WHEREAS doubts have heretofore arisen
with regard to the power of the Society
to annex any penalties to the non-payment of the
mftalmcnts, agreeably to the terms of the fub
fcripiions. And whereas the Lcgiflature at their
last feflions, parted a supplement 10 the original
Jaw of incorporation, removing the said doubts,
and fully authorizing the Directors to pass any
ordinance they may think proper, to compel the
pun&ual paynient of the said fubferiptions.
Sec. 1. Be it ordained, therefore, by the Governor
and Direflors of the Society for ejlablijhing Ukful
Manujafluref % l hat if any fabferiber or nisafligus,
frail ncgleft to pay the second payment of
her, or iheir refpt&ive fubferiptions, together
with the lawful interest anting thereon, either to
the calhier of the United States Bank Office of
Discount and Deoofit, at New-York, the cashier
of the Bank of Vew-York, the cashier of the
Bank of the United Slates, in Philadelphia, of
John Bayard, Esq. in the city of New-Brunf
wick, in the state of New-Jerley, on or be ore
the thirteenth day of April next : Thatthen*nd
in that cafe, all and every fha>e or of such
person or person* so negle&ing to make such pay
ments as aforefaid, and the monies by them pre
viously paid, shall be forfeited,and forever there
after vested in the said Directors, and thrir fuc
ceflbrs, for the common benefit of the said So
ciety.
Sec. 2. And be it further ordained by the authority
afo'refaidy That if any fubferiber, or his afligns,
shall neglect to pay the thiid payment of his, her
or their refpeflive fubferiptions, t®gether with
the lawful interest anting thereon, on or before
the thirteenth day of May next. That then and
in that cafe all and every (hare or shares of such
person or peifons so negletting to make such
payments as aforeTaid, and the monies i»y them
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter vested in the said Directors, and their
facceflors, for the common benefit of the said
Society.
Sec. 3. And be it further ordained by the authority
a forefaid, That if any fubferiber, or his aflign,
mall ncgleft to pay the fourth payment of
her,or theirrefpettive fubferiptions,on or befoc
the thirteennth day of July next, that then and n
that cafe., all and every (hare or shares of fu<h
person or persons, so negle&ing to make fudi
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by then
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and forevtr
thereafter vested in the said Dire&ors, and ther
fucceflor6, for the common benefit of the fail
Society. NICHOLAS LOW, Governor.
Pajfr.dat NewArk> 20th 1793.
(Countersigned) ELISHA BOUDINOT,
Secretary pro tempore.
BE TT KNOWN, that the proportion of spe
cie which may be paid on the rcfpe&ive pay
ments of every original fharc, by such Stock
holders as prefer paying a moiety of said (hare
in specie, in lieu of deferred debt, is as follows
■Doh. Cts
On the 13th of April, 1793, with in
terest from 13th July, 1792,
On the 13th of May, 1793* with in
terest from 13th January, 1793, 7 86
On the 13th of July, 1793, 8 09
Stockholders in the (aid Society are hereby
notified, that I, the Cubfefiber, am duly autho
rised to make the requisite indorsements upon
the certificates of (hares which they may refpec
tivcly hold, and that books of transfer are open
ed at my office, in Front-street, New-York.
February 21 1 *793-
A New Post-Road.
HAVING been desired to establish a poft
road from Reading, in the date of Penn
sylvania, to Williamfburg, at the Great Forks of
the Genefee river, Notice is hereby given, that
proposals will be received at the General Post-
Office, for carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Williamfburg aforefaid, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading and the town of
Northumberland j trom the latter dace to Loyal
Sock creek ; thence to Lycoming creek ; thence
in tbe new road to the Painted Post, on Tiogj
river; and thcnce to Williamfburg.
The proposals will be received until the ijth
of March next, irtclufivcly f rhe carriage bt the
mail to commence within one month after
wards.
Necessary, Poll-Offices are to be eftabliflied oai
the route, and such peifons appointed Poft-i
tnafters as the Contraflor Hull name, and the.
Poftmaftei-Gencral approve |
Within three months after the carriage of,this
mail is commenced, the Contrafior.it to state toi
the Poflmafter-General the days and hours of its)
arrival and departure at and from the principal!
Pdft-officcs, which experience (hall prove.to bev
moil convenient; and thereafter the mail is to'
be delivered at the refpeflive Poll-offices it the.
hours so fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted, ■
on penalty of one dollar for each hour's dday
and for the non-performance of a trip, the (Sou- >
4ra£lor to forfeit twenty dollars. »
The term of the contrafl cannot eiccSed ejght:
years. During its continuance the Contractor is
to receive the rates of pottage by law eftablilhed,;
and to have the exclusive privilege of carrying]
letters and packets for hire, such excepted, is'
shall be lent bya special messenger, or whichaieli
or shall be by law declared free, \
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P.M.G. ' .
Gevernl Pojl-Ojficc, Jan. 22, >793,
tf
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given, That the Com.
miflioners appointed by the Board of
Trustees of the University of' North-Carolina
will attend at the town of HilUborough, on the
18th, 19th and 20th days of April next, for the
puipofe of receiving propofali from fucb per.'
sons as may be disposed to undertake the Build
ings of the University.
FREDERICK HARGETT, Chairman,
TICKETS
In the 'FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be hid at SAMUEL' COOPER's Ferry.
336
The Seventh Volume contains a defcripfion
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Fxpe
rimental Philosophy, System of Farriery, Feudal
system, Fire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Foflils, history of France, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Glass,
See. with a variety of articles in natural history,
biography and miscellanies. Illustrated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the puvpofe) which
will be occasionally renewed before they oon
traft a worn appearance.
11. The work is furnifhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid an sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed;
to <be paid for when delivered, the price of one \
to be paid in advance, and the price of
each lucceeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia which by
far exceed in number those given in any other
fcientific d iftionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif-:
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti-'
tie pages for the different volumes,
It Isexpe&ed the work will be comprised in:
abqut eighteen volumes in quarto.
Those who wi(h to become pofleffors of;
this valuable work will pleafeto be early in their !
applications, as the fubfcriptionls nearly closed.
Jan. 13.
7 63
NICHOLAS LOW.
lawt^M,
H'FIY DOLLARS RJLWAKD.
RAN away on the 25thinftani, a likely Ne
gro Man called Isaac, about twenty-threo
years oid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made fellow, fond of talking, has a large
mouth, and (hows his teeth very much when
talking; had on when he went away, a brown
linen shirt, a (hort white kersey over jacket with;
a very high collar and plain bread, with buttons
which appear to have been very gay ; a pair of:
white kersey breeches, a pair of white knit yarn
(lockings, a pair of (hoes with ftripgs in them,
and a coarse hat ; all the above clothes are al
most new. Said Negro was fprmerly the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas, late of Kent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, d<"-
ceased, and has for several years been employed
in that neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by MefTrs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, which business he is
well acquainted with, and is what he prefers ;
and has been engaged in driving a waggou from
said Cross.Roads to Duck-Creek, &c. until
Aogiift last. I expect he will make his way for
th* neighbourhoods of George-Town, Dutk-
Crcek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will be piid if delivered to me in this
place, or Thirty Dollars if fecuied in any goal,
so that I get him again. He is an artful-fellow,
and when taken, will make his efcapc, unless
particularly secured.
F.aston, OWEN KENNARD.
Talis! County. Maryland, Dec. 28, 1792. 2m
>U(. . i
ADVER TIShMjbNT.
(f3~ Thoje perjons who have received Subjcrip
lion-Money Jot the Gazette, and thoje zuho are in
arrears for the fame, are mcjl earnejlly requejlei to
make payment to the Editor as soon as possible.
05* The price of this Gazette is three Dollart
tier annum—One hulj to be pnii at th< tine e/ fvi
/cribing,
BANK OF THE UNITEDSTAT^S.
RxsOL V ED,
any person residing in Europe, who
JL Dull authorize the President, Dire&or* and
Company of the Bank of the United States, te
receive annuities, or Interest anting from the
public debt of the United States of America,
Diall from time to lime have authority to draw
on the said Present, Drcftors and Company,
to the amount of the monies by them received,
which drafts Dial) be paid without deduction
and free of ex pence—Or,
The President, Dire&ors and Company, if re
quested, will remit the monies by them received
to any part of Europe, free of expellee and with
out dcdu&ion, in Bills of Exchange at their cur
rent value, and at the rifle, of the peifon to whom
the fame ihall be remitted.
By the President and Directors,
jw JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
JUST -HUB LlSIi ED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookfelltr, at the Stone-Houfc, in Second Jlreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VII, of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
AND MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new :
b r WHICH
THt DirrjtßENT SCIENCES and ARTS
are digeflcd into the Form of DiflinCt,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
COMPREHENDING
THE History, Theory, and Practice* of each,
according to the Latcft Difcovfcries and im
provements : and full Explanations given of the
various detached parts of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural and Artificial Objr&s, or to
Matters Eccleftaftical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, &c. Including Elucidations of the mod im
portant Topics relative to Religion,Morals,Man
ners, and the Occonomy of Life : together with
4 D< fcription of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, dcc. throughout
the World ; a General History, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empires, Kingdoms
and States ; and an account of the Lives of the
mofl Eminent Persons in every Nation, from the
earliest ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the belt authors, in
fcveral Languages ; the mod appioved Di&iona
ries, as well of General Science as of particular
branches; the Trari factions, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned societies, both at home and
abroad—the MS. lectures of eminent profeffors
on different Sciences : and a variety of original
Materials, furniflied by an extensive Correspon
dence.
By 7110 Ms! $ pHKSON, DAI lti
STUs/RT,&iD SIN ILL CARROLL
Efquirei, '
Commissioners appointed by Government 10
prepare the Public Bu.ldings, &c. w.th.n tf,e
City of Wajhington, lor the reception ol Con
gress, and lor their permanent ri lideuce after
the year 1 Boo—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tic km at 7 dollars, arc 35c!,000 dollar*
LIST OF PRIZfcS, Viz
l Superb-Hotel, with baths, )
out houfirs, See.See. to coil \
l Cacti Prize.
1 ditto
i ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
5,000 arc
1,000
500
100
5°
2 5
20
10
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 Primps
33,263 Blank?
50,000
By this fchfctne at Ml the amount of the tick,
cts will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the fedeVal City will-gain its objcti thereby,
in a magnificent building defined both for pub-
Jic and private convenience.
Although Tome ex-pence wvuft at
tend the cohdutting of the lottery* torch efc
pence will be taken from the principalprige)che
Comrniffioners having agreed to present in re
turn a fufficieiit quantity of excellent free-ftone,
together with the bell adapted lot* for the hole!
and for the oot-houfcs, the vatur «f the -lottery
entire may Ijc fairly rated a\ fomcthing mwc thin
par i In this important inftaticc it wiil be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of rtie
Hotel, when eojnpleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate poflefTor of the ticket drawn
its number.— All the other prizes will be paid,
without dcduflion,in out month after ike drawing,by
the City Trea.furer at Wartiington, or at futh
Bank or Banks as may belierealter announced,
for the convenierrcy of the fortunate advtrnrufers.
The drawing will commence on Mondav the
9th of Septembei next, at the City of Waihing
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
Treasurer of Waftiington ; Thayer & Bart'et, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Sidcon Denifon % sa*.
vannah ; McfTrs. James Wcji & Co. Baltimore ;
Mr. Peter Gi/man, Boston ; and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the best Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houfe6, if prcfint'cd
on *r-i*Jor€ the *oth oj April a pre
ference will be given to the Artist for a Con
tra#, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat bis plan. The ground on whkh
the Hotel and outtioufes are to bfercfted, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
back aventie to the stables, &c. Scftions and
efti mates of the expense will be cxpe&ed
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars mutt be regarded by the Aichite&as the
utmost limit in the expeufe int«'.ndf<i far this
purpose. S. BLODGfcT,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
March 6, 1793.
War Department,
January'2B, 1793.
JNFORMATION is hereby given to ail the
military Invalids of the United States,"that
the sums to which they are entitled for fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will 1 -become due
on day of March 1 793, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioner*of the Loans
within the Rates- refpeftiyoly, under the usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment must be ac
companied by the following vouchers:
lft. The certificate given by the»llatr, fprciSy
ing that the person posse fling the lameis irt tact
an Invalid, and afcertaiiiing the £um to which,
as such, he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to tlie following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Justices
of the county of in the state of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his poflefiion was giv
en, of which the following is a copy (the Cer
tificate given by the state to be recited) That
he served (regiment, corps or veffetyaHhe
time he was disabled, and that he now reftdes
in the and county of and has resided
there for the last years, previous to which
he resided in
In cafe *n Invalid should' apply for payment
by an attorney, the said attorney, beside* the
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a special letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
I, A. B. of county of state of
do hereby conflitute and appoint C. D. of
my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension tor fix months,- as an Invalid
of the United States, from the 4th day of Sep
tember 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
*793-.
Signed and Sealed
in the Prefcnce of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminiftralors
must be acrompanied with legal evidence of
their refpc&ivc offices, and also of the time the,
Invalid died, whose pension they may claim.
By Command of the Prefidcnt
ps the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretariat War.
50,000
25>°c»
2D,g
15,000
10.030.
10,000
lo.coo
10,000
lo.eoo
10,000
io,oct>
?.0,000
150,00(7
Dollais gj*j,ooer