A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS HY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PH'ILA D&JL Pill A
[No. 85 of Vol. IV.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, March I.
In committee of tlie whole, Mr. Muhlenberg
in the chair, on the jd, 4th, sth, 6ih, 7th,
»nd Bth resolutions, reflecting the official
conduct of the Secretary of the Trealury,
for which fee Gazette of the 6th irift.
(CONTI N U r.D.)
MR. Madison. He wilhed not, he said, to
watte a moment of the small portion of
time left, by regretting its for a
(full difculiion of the fubjeet before the commit
tee. But he thought it due to truth,and to the
honorable and inde|>endent motives of his col
league (Mr. Giles) in proposing the resolutions,
to remark that the lateness oi the day to
which they had been postponed did not juftify
the ftridhires which had been jnade on it. If
the delay was not to be con fide ted as unavoid
able, folne blame at least woukl fall elsewhere.
The enquiries in which the whole bufinei's ori
ginated, had been moved by Us colleague »nd
pafftd the house some weeks ago. The re
ports in answer to theie enquiries had not
been finally made a single day be
fore the pre'ent resolutions were fubmltted to
the bouse. He admitted that it might have
been impracticable to report the information
called for as early as was deliredby the house :
He was sensible cf the anxiety tlmt would be
naturally felt by the officer called upon, to
present every confide ration that might place
his conduct in the most favorable poiut of
view : yet with all these allowances, it was
inipoliible to deny that the reports contained
thing's which did not belong to thein,and there
fore consumed time which belonged to the pe
riod for difcufilon. He would mention one
in dance on which there could not possibly be
a difference of opinion ; viz the vindication,
formally undertaken by the Secretary, of ihe
policy of borrowing money abroad. 'Whether
this policy was right or wrong, the leLiiflature
had themselves decided in favor of it ; and it
was the duty of the Secretary in complying
with the orders'of the house, to inform the
house, how the law had been executed, not
why it had been made; to explain his own
conduct, not to juftify that of the legislature.
It had been why th© c»U svt«M~u>a
lionhad not been sooner made ? The anfiwe*
was obvious and simple. It was not sooner
perceived by the house, that there was fucli a
necessity for it. The want of information
was firft suggested by the bdl for paying two
millions of dollars to the bank, altho' 200,000
only were immediately due, and for authoriz
ing another foreign loan to the amount of two
millions. From the dawn of light thrown by
fjnie eh curaftances incident to the occasion,
on the darkr.efs in which the house had re
mained, proceeded those doubts and enquiries
which had led to the information now possess
ed. His colleague had great merit in having
brought about this devclopement. He had
rendered a service highly valuable to the le
gislature, and 110 less important and acceptable
to the public. One good etfeft of the infor
mation had been, that it prevented the pas
of the bill for borrowing 2,0q0,000 of
dollars as an anticipated payment to the bank.-
The bill had dropt from the hand of its pa
tron with the firft light that broke in upon
the house. What other meafutes would have
been prevented or varied, if a like knowledge
of our Tulwls and finances had I Ten sooner ob
tained, was matter of serious consideration.
Another consequence of the reports taken
together, was that the face of them presented
to his colleague, an evidence of the charges
contained in the resolutions. Whether at so
late a day it was heft to leave the fubjeft as
exhibited by the various documents in print,
for the examination and opinion of the public,
or to press it on the confederation of thehoufe,
V/as a point which every member had a 1 igbt
to decide for himfelf. His colleague had
viewed the portions stated in his motion, as
too important to be suspended ; and as sup-
P :)1 re( * b y such clear and authentic proofs,that
a finall portion of time would fufrce for the
fubjeA. Under this impreffton, what was his
right became his duty ; and he had discharged
it Wy
ofFe ing his resolutions to the houle.
. thfc house had refufed to commit the two
introdu&or* resolutions which ellablifhed the
r ( °f judgment to be applied to the cafe, and
the lalt also, which declared the iiifcrance to
dra\vn : the talk of the committee was li
niitted to a fiijiple enquiry into thq fads dat
ed. _ Tliey were to make out and reports
lpecial vendiftofthefe, and leave it to the
notift to pronounce the proper judgment arif
ing from then).
The refolutfon immediately before the com
mittee imported 4t that the Secretary of the
Trcufury had violated the Jaw palled on the
4th of Angust f 1790, making appropriations
©1 certain monies," frfi* 44 by "applying a cer
tain portion of the principal borrowed, to the
payment of interefton
vt u by drawing part of tiie fame monies into
the Un»ted States, without the iuftruftiou of
the President."
The qwiftions here are questions of fact;
«<id whatever quality maybe attached bvdiJ
Saturday, March 25. 1795.
ferent gentlemen to the &veraJfafts E it would
feetii as if the facts them felve.s. are too Nearly
supported by flic reports of tbp Secretary, and
the documents attending them, to be denied
or controverted.
The law of Auo;uft 4, 179% authorised the
Prehd<nt*o cause to be borrowed i;2,ooo,ooq
of dollars to lie applied to the foreign debt of
th~ United States. A fublequent law of An
guft 12, 1790, authorised another loan of two
millions of dollars, to be applied to the do
meftic debt of the United States,
A power to make these loans was delegated
on the 28th 1790, to the Secretary by
a genaral commifh'on in the uftial form, re
ferring, to the Jeveral acts above-mentioned ;
but without any farther discrimination of'the
loans to be made. As the layv however for
applying loans to the foreign object was. prior
in date, the prcfuuvptiori would rather be Chat
it was to have a priority of execution ; that
the firft money borrowed was to belong to the
firft object provided for. It was unnecelfary
however 10 dwell on this consideration, be.
cause the President had removed all uncertain*
ty by the preci'e explanations and irftru^i T
ons which aceomptmied the power to the Se
cretary, and. which oright m vnutfa to be d«« m
ed a part of the commiifion.
The inftruftion having been more than once
read to the committee, he would content him*
felf with referring to it. [The part referred
to is in the following words, il I do hereby
make known to you, that in the execution of
thejaid truJL yoU are to observe and follow
the orders and directions following, viz. Ex
cept where otherwise especially directed by
me, you lhall employ in the negociation of
any foreign loan or loans which may be made
in any foreign country, William Short, Esq.
you fliall borrow or cause to be borrowed, on
the best terms which fliall be found practica
ble, and within the limitations piefcribed by
law, as to tittle of repayment and rate of in
terest, Oich fmn or funis as fliall be fufticient
to discharge, as well all inftallinents or parts
of the principal of the foreign debt, which
now are due, or fliall become payable to the
end of the year 1791, as all interest and an,
rears of interest which now are or lhall be
come due, in refpeft to the said debt, to the
fame end of the year 1791- And you lhall
apply, or cmtjc to be applied, the monies \i hch
(hall be so borrowed, with all convenient dif
patcb, to tht payment of the said inftalments,and
parts of the principal and interest, and arrears
of interest 0] the jrid debu You fliall not ex
tend the ariiouv.t of the loan which you thai!
make, or cause to be made, beyond the fuin
which lhall be neceflary for completing inch
payment, unless it can be done upon terms
more advantageous to the United States,than
those upon which the residue of the said debt
fliall stand or be. But if the said rejidue, or
any part of the fataie can be paid off by new
loans, upon terms of advantage to the United
States, you lhall caufefudi further loans as may
be requisite to be made, and the proceeds
thereof to be applied accordingly. And for car
rying into effect the ohjtfts ar.dpurpofcs ajorefaid:
1 do hereby further empower you to make or
cause to be made, with whomsoever it may
concern, such contra# orl:ontrafts, being of
a nature relative thereto, as fliall be found
needful and conducive to the interest of the
United States."] —By this formal ast iflued
along with the commijjion to the fecretaty, the
Prelident designated the object to which the
loans to lie made, were to lie applied ; and
declared the object to be that provided for by
the ast of August 4th, 179°> be expressly plac*
ed the loan under the authority and provision
of that ast ; so that the moment the money
Ihould be borrowed, it was to stand legally ap
propriated to its fpecified object ; as much as
if another law, authorising another loan, for
another purpose, had not existed.
This arrangement of the President was the
more proper, not only because provision for
the payment of the foreign debt had been the
primary object of the legislature, and the pay
ment of the French debt, the anxious wish of
their constituents ; but because payments to
France were no longer matte? of option, but
of ftrift and positive obligation on the United
States. In proof of this, he stated, that the
debt to France, calculated to the end of 179**
and computing the livre at 5 4-10 to a dollar,
amounted to 4,814,814 dollars, whilst the pay
ments aftuaiy made, computing the florin at
2 1-2 to a dollar, amounted to 110 more than
3,372,717, leaving as a balance at the end of
1791 of 1,442,097— Adding to thjc balance the
inftalmentsduefor 1792, amounting to 683,858
dollars—there were to be paid within the
year 2,080, dollars. The entire payments,
however, composed of 656,500 dollars in Eu
rope, and 726,000 put to the account of St.
Domitigo, (although 441,263.83 were actually
paid) amounting to 1,382,530 dollar*, leaving
due at the end of 1792, a tialance of 698,485.
Here he adverted to and read a paragraph
in the report of the secretary, page 16, whertf
in alJulion to the measure of drawing bills in
the latter part of 1792, he fays, I feel my
felf tlie more at liberty to do it, bccaufe it did
not interfere with a compleat fulfilment of
the public engagements in regard to the fo
reign debt. It could be done conliftently
337
witwj * full re im bur foment of all arrears and
tnftaimentsi which had accrued on account of
that debt." Mr. M. observed, that as he
could not reconcile this paragtapb with tie
calculations which lie had stated, and which
wete drawh from official documents, he mult
regard it aslan uuqueftiooable error produced
by Ibme hasty view of the fubjeft.
Returning to the commifiion, Mr. M. re
peated that all the money which that instru
ment, defined and qualified by the inftruftion
annexed to it, authorised the secretary to bor
row, Vvas actually and fpecificatly appropriated
to the payment (if the foreign debt, and under
circutpftances particularly ip relation
. to a p^rtofit.
In what manner had ttlis trust been carried
into execution ? It was to be ohferved with
regret, that on the very day, 011 which the-coin
million and inftruftion issued from the Prefir
dent, the secretary commenced his arrange
ment for diverting part of a loan, accepted
and ratified by virtue of his commission, to a
purpofV different from that fpecified and re
quired by his inftruftion. That a fact of lb
extraorilitery a complexion, might be ground
e4 °n the proof, jVJj.M.
ft .J, he ihould take the line ty of fttpporting
it by the authority of the Secretary himfelf.
Here l>e read from the Secretary's letter dated
Auguji 28, 179"), to the Dutch houses from
whom the loan had been accepted, the follow
ing padages, viz. 44 I Ihould also wilh for par
ticular reasons that the business may be lb re
gulated as to give it the form of two Joans,
one for two millions under the fir ft ast, and
the other for ore million under tk:fecond. But
neither about this, am I so solicitous as to be
willing it fnotild constitute an embkrrafT
ment."
I dejiive a million and an ha!J of this Jum as a
payment to France under the direction of Mr.
Short, our charge des affaires at that court,
whole orders for that purpose you will please
to follow."
The afpfcft here presented by a companion
of the several documents, was Angular and re
markable; The subordinate officer appeared
in dircft opposition to the chief magistrate.
The agent was seen over-ruling by his own
orders,, the orders of his principal. The lan
guage of the President was—By virtue cf the
power vetted in me by law, I deifcine the mo
ney to be borrowed, to the discharge of the iti
ftalments and interest of the foreign debt*
The language of the secretary was—l defline
a part of the money only to that purpose, and
a pat t to be brought to the United States for
ether purposes. He left every member to
make his own reflections on the fubjeft. He
would only oblerve in general that it del' on
ftrated the truth afterted in the proposition,
that the secretary had violated both the law
of August 4th, 1792, and the inftruftion of
the President relating to it.
He then proceeded to a more diftinft view
of the two points particularly stated iu the
resolution.
The firft was, ** That a certain portion of
the principal, borrowed under tne ast of Au
gust 4, 1790, had been applied to the payment
of the irtterett falling due on that principal "
As the f.ift would not, he presumed, be deni
ed, lie forbore to quote Chac part of the docu
ments, which admitted and authenticated it.
He would, however, premise to any obl'erva
tiofis on it, a cur.fory view of the natute of
appropriations.
Jt was unr.etcflary to repeat Ihe emphatic
remarks on this fubjeft, which had fallen from
the member from Pennsylvania (Mr. Findley)
It was fufficiently understood, he concluded,
that appropriations of money were of a high
and sacred character; that they were the
wrestt bulwark which our ronfritution had
carefully and jealously established against ex
ecutive ufurparions. He meant only to take
notice of the different plans into which appro
priations might be moulded, and of the patti
cular operatior, which ought to he given to
them.
One of the plans, was that of appropriating
fptcified funds to fpecified objects ; in which
the supposed cerrainty of the funds was ad
jufled to the fuppoled importance of the ob
jects.
The other plan formed all the branches of
the revenue into an aggregate fund; on which
' the several objects should have a priority of
claim, according to their fuperior.ty of im
pel nee.
It was evident, that in both these cafes,the
leffiflature alone poffcftYd the competent au
thority. Theexclufive right of that depart
ment of the government to make the proper
regulations, was the basis of the utility and
efficacy of appropriations.
There was a third question incident to the
doctrine of appropriations, viz—Whether,
under fpecific appropriations,fuch as had been
adopted by Congress, the executive «uthonty
could, without Ipecial permission of the law,
apply the excess of one fund to the aid of a
deficient one ; or borrow from one fund for
the object of another. On this question there
might perhaps be a difference of opinion. He
would only remark, that admitting ftich adif
cretion to be implied in the trust of executing
Uie laws, it \ypuld still be requisite that the
[Whole No. 40;.]
due fivxftiwi <rfK*«HJe«tlve flion'd he give*,
that a fefcular accoiitrflHonld be ktfitr Bef\#een
the different and that yjl advai'Cts
from one tp t!je other'lftonld he le'plaeud a#
soon S'.pofliblc. . Thii equally necelfary
to the.preservation of order in tlie public fi
nancesj ami to a prop.'i relj>e<ft for the autho
rity of the laws.
In tfie present cafe it did not appear tfuip
the monies taken at different times from tha
leans designated by the President, and thereby
.placed under the appropriation of the ast of
.August 4, 1791, to the foreign debt, ever
been replaced. It did not appear that #ay
ftich replacement was regularly planned* or
provided ibr. It was particularly worthy of
•bier vat ion moreover, that the only life with
in the United States for which afiv loan iq
Eitttope could be afiigned, was that of the (ifik
ingfiind j that the trutteei of this fund' had
never been even informed of the drafts;
if all the moniei drawn had been carried to
the finking fund, tlie liinitted Turn of 2,066,b00
of dollars would have been exceeded; and
tbat the ftatethents and accounts had ly
so woumi up, as njcntioned by'tlfie l SeOfe
tai not a fingk flilTar of tlie money "laid
out iiV purebafihg the public debt,, had. beert
charged on loan ; draw 11 into the United .States;
although such was the onlj pnrpoie to which
they were legally applxahle, and such the
principal reason alfigued for making the drift.
He did not go into a particular proof that
the sum drawn into the United States, after
fubtra&ing the whole sum placed to a foreign
account, exceeded the Aim of 2,000,000 of
dollar-;, becanfe the fa<ft had been conceded on
the other fide, particularly by the ftatemcnt
of the member from Connecticut (Mr. Hill
hou'e).
Thus it appeared clearly, fn confirmation
of the firft point, that the application of a cer
tain portion of the principal borrowed in Eu
rope, to payment of the inteieft. vas not a
mere transposition of monies, so prevent the
fending them backwards or forwards ; nor
an advance of money from an overflowing
fund in favor of a deficient one ; but an al>-
solute diversion of appropriated money : and
consequently a violation of the law making
the appropriation,
Tlve (econd point in the resolution, renting
to the drawing of monies into the United
States without the inltruClion of the President.
This point had been fully eftablilhed by the
documents and explanations applied to the
firft. They had done more : They had 'de
monstrated that the inftru&ions of the Prtfi
der.t which dedicated the loans to be made
under his commission, to a foreign ohjec%wiei e
an cxprefs prohibition of drafts for any do
mestic object. ft was f\ifficient therefore to
refer to the inftru&ions of the Pre/jrient, 4r,d
to the contradictory steps taken by the Secre
tary.
Two attempts had been made to eluHe the
force of tbeie official proofs.
The firft appealed to the President's speech
at the opening of theSeflion in 1790 ; to Vhe
report of the Secretary made in
of.it to the house; and to the fuppiemcntfcry
ast of Congress paifed in conformity to the
report,.
Had the circumstances invoked in this
tranfa&ion been attended to by those who
Teemed to rely on it, Mr. M. was periuaded
that a reference to it would never have been
made by gentlemen on that fide. As they had
thought fit however to draw argument-, from
that f'ource, it was proper to give an anfXyer
to them 5 and the best aniwer would be 3,
naked statement of
The inftruftign of the President to the Se
cretary, was given, as has been seen, on £he
28thofAuguft 179°' The letter of the Se
cretary contravening this inftrultion, was
dated, as has also been seen, on the fame 28th
dayofAnguft, 179°-
The actual drawing of bills by the secretary
commenced tbe I jth of December, 1790.
The law now pleaded in justification of the
condgft of tl-e secretary pulled on the 3d of
Marcb, 1791. , ■ ' '
There are other facts material to a correct
ard full view of the bu(ii;efs.
The speech of the President was delivered
on the Bth ofDete'mber, 1790. It biiefly in
formed the two houses that " a loan of three
millions of florins, towards which some pio
vifional measures had previoiifly telcen place;
had been completed in Holland," —and,"That
the secretary of the treasury had his direftioo
to communicate such further particulars a}
plight be requisite fur mort prccile inl'orma
tion."
The confeqnent report of the (ecretary re»
comniending the provision in the fuppltnien
tary ast, was not received till the 2jth of Fe
bruary, 1791 : fix days only before the con
stitutional diflolution of tl.e house.
In the interval between the speech of the
Prtfident and the fecretary'j woport, le had
proceeded to draw bills to the amount of
793.392 florins.
His rep«rt ( ratwilhftaxdtng what had been
Jaid of it, contained not a word from which it
couid be known that a fii'gte florin had been
actually drawn over to the U <lted-StaU«. '
[Tc h -cntiuui.]t
The jollowing excellent Composition is taken from the
Albany Register.
THE EXIT OK OLD AGE;
OR, REFt ECTION S AD AFT ED TO THE CL6FE
Of » wtiWHu't Lire
HUSH, hulh, my filends, Why stand you
rounJ me wteping ?
You (hock my fortitude—too weak nl'cady :
Save that dear infant, h*- may long be ufetul :
My day is over.
With pleafyro and with pain I, in irtrofneft,
View iny pats life : 1 tee a thousand tailings ;
•Yet here and there a »ian, that when an orphan
fei tt my takit.'
My door was ever open to the stranger ;
My heart to the dift«f»M j my hand was ready
To Teach a xnorfcl to the poor and needy;
If hat t norfel.
The fiek I visited ; I felt the
I could not heal; but Itiudnefs Was a cordial:
Their earned looks acknowledge mycomo«fTwn:
The) Uefs'd me dying.
These feet, unable now to bear the burden
Impos'd upon them by the law of nature,
How nimbly have they mov'd this attive body,
. When sorrow call'd me.
A mental touch of the B m.sic Spirit
Moulded my texture to these deeds of mercy :
With plealure I hate footh'd ihe fobbing boliim,
Sunk by opprejfion.
Indulgent Heav'n ! not greater was ihy jlory
Of pow'r and wildorn, sung at the creation
By morning ftjrs, than four score years' expe-
rience
Proclaims thy goodness.
From thee this wond'rou* frame ot mine pro
ceeded,
By thee to feeble age it is protratted,
To thee it gravitates as to the centre
OJ its exiflehce.
Let uncreated love's mysterious mantlt,
* Woven to cover naked human nature,
Hide what the child, the youih,ortnan a£led
That 4ce mould btajh at.
.Farewel* a long farewel, to fin and forjrow :
Now Death's cold hand is reaching me a potion
To cure the maladies of human nature ;
Age is the lajl one.
If in the nurse's arms we are not fmother'd,
Yet firft or last death will rock o'er the cradle ;
As there the young—here the old infant tumbles
Into his coffin.
Good night, iny friends! When this last nap is
over,
(I reft in hope) awaking from my slumber,
I shall aiife and with you a good morning
In Life Eternal. J. T.
Foreign Affairs.
PARIS, Jan. 4.
PART of the plan of the Commit
tee of General Defence is, to
(lation a number of final! veUels on
the coalt between Calais and Dun
kirk, to intercept the Britiih tra
ders, and perhaps occasionally to
harrafs the coatt of England. 1 hefe
vefTels will be supplied wuh a pow
erful artillery, and will discharge
red hot Ihot , and their force will
be such, as to rendenit neceflary for
the British Government to keep a
large fquailron in the Downs.
Some of the English Admirals, if
they ihould go to war, will not like
the present French niode of fight
ing. They will ndt find their squa
drons so easy a conquest as they
have been. Yon may depend on it,
that the chara<!ler of the nation is
efi'entially changed, and that it is
chiefly the fierce republican spirit,
with which they are actuated, that
bas rendered their armies invinci
ble to the German mercenaries.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Monday, Jan. 14.
Bouzot denounced the Council
General of the Commons, for hav
ing ifl'ued a decree of fhutiing up
the Play-houses, arid other places
of public entertainment : He mo
ved that this decree be annulled.
Quinette observed, that there
was a decree extant, which charged
the Executive Power to take all pos
sible measures of fafety during the
judgment of Louis Capet,
The Aflenibly called for the or'
der of the day
A letter was read from M. Ber
rand, the Ex TVlinlfter, who com
plained, that the Minister of justice
had not delivered tothe Official De
fenders of Louis XVI. certain pa
pers, which lie had addreflied to
them.
The Minister of Justice said, he
had delivered those pieces into the
hands of the Commiflion of twelve.
A member of this Commiflion de
clared, that the pieces had been
presented to Malefherbes, but the
latter would not make any use of
them.
/■The Convention called for the
order of the clay, being
The final judgment of Louis XVI.
Lehardi moved, that it be pre
■viottfly decided by a nominal call,
if the Decree that is to be pronoun
ced on the fate of Louis (hall be
fandtioucd by the nation at large.
Ancu her proposed these questions :
1. Is it compatible witn the in
terell of the State, that Louis be
deprived of his dignity ! *
2. ls.it proper that he should fuf
fer death, or should he be impri
loned for life ?
3. In eittier cafe fliall appeal to
the people take place i
Coulthon and Gauthier moved,
that the following two queliions be
si fit put : j.„
x. Is Louis guilty of high'tteafon
and cojifpiracy against. the L,ite«y
and Sovereignty of tlve Nation. J , ,
LoUvet moved, that in order to
(how a proper refpetft to tile opin
ions of the different Members, it
should fir 11 be decided, whether or
not the appeal to the sovereign peo
ple should take place ?
Cambaceies was of opinion,-that
the Convention ought to pronounce
a judgment in ipfo fafro ; he ex
prefied at the fame time his doubts,
if the Convention had (uch a power
veftetl in.thein ; he therefore mo
ved, that, to avoid all difficulties,
the Convention should make an ap
peal to the Primary Aflemblies, to
consult them, whether or not it is
their wish that iheConvention should
judge Louis, and pronounce sen
tence upon him?
Quinette was for judging Louis,
and referring his fenteuce to the
Sovereign people in the primary
Aflemblies.
The Mountain became extremely
clamorous, and wished that Louis
should be immediately sentenced to
fuffer death, that his sentence should
be pronounced, and afterwards re
ferred to the ratification of the peo
ple.
After many tumultuous debates,
the difcuflion was finally closed, and
the following three questions adapt
ed, on the motion of Barrerre.
r. Is Louis guilty or not guilty
of High Trealon, and of attempts
againlt the general fafety of the
State ?
2. Shall the appeal to the people
take place '
3. What puniftimeiit lhall he iuf
fer !
Tuesday, January if.
Boozot moved,' and the Conven
tion decreed, that every mfetnber
who (houid vote on the <quelttons
terminating the judgment of Loais,
should have his natne inscribed in a
book destined for that purpose, and
that ibe different panics ftiould af
terwards be fetu to the 84 Depsaft-
merits.
Heie Manuel, one of the Secre
taries, read the firfl: qucftion, 011
which the Members of tlie Conven
tion were to vote, viz.
" Is LOUIS Guilty or not Guilty
of High Treason, and of attempts
againll the General Safety of the
Sta:e !"
The nominal call began, Mr. Snl
les read the names, and each.mem
ber afceiided the tribone. ' *
The following members rben vo
ted .
Bouzot. I vote that Louis be ini
prifoned with his family, till all
the nation (hall unite to decide his
fate.
Lanjuinas. Louis is guilty.
Boudron. I declare Louisis guilty.
Vandelicoui r. Legislators, I do
not choose to be a judge in criminal
matters.
• Lalande. Louis is neither guilty
nor not guilty.
OHelieii. t know that Louis paid
his guards at Coblentz ; I do there
fore pronounce him guilty.
M. Egalite, guilty.
Danron. Yes, he is guilty.
Com-pte. Speaking as a Legifiafor,
Louis is guilty ; as a judge I wont
p e -
Montaigut. Louis is guilty, riaj
more than guilty.
Faure. Louis is guilty in point of
the law refpefting Royalty, and 1
do declare him guilty.
Delay he. To put the question,
whether Louis is guilty or not guil
ty, is to ask if we are ourfeltfes
guilty. 1 do declare Louis is guilty.
Barnard des Sablons. Louis is
guilty and nor guilty.
Morrifon. I can answer none of
the questions proposed.
338
Noel. I once had a foil. He died
in defence of his country. Ido hoc
think that a taiher who bewailed a
lun ilain, can be the judge ol him
who is accused of being the author
of his wretchedness.
Maure. Guilty on my honor and
corifcieiice.
Corea Fu(liei\ Guilty.
Valady. 1 cannot pronounce, for
I am no judge.
Kauchett. As citizen 1 a' l ' con
vinced of his guilt ; as legislator I
declare him guilty; as judge 1 have
nothing to fay.
Dubois. As a judge I do declare
Louis is guilty ; but we ought to
appeal to the people.
Laumont. I can never believe
that the Convention have all powers
verted in them ; upon the pre few
matter 1 iliaU be fileut for ever.
Lariviere. I did never vote that
the Convention ihould judge Louis,
To cannot vote on the bufiiiefs in
question.
Ooulcet. I vote for the fafe cus
tody of Louis and his family, till
the termination of the war ; take
care that he may have 110 fucceflor ;
and when the war is once termina
ted, let the decree of his fate be
I'ubmiued to the people.
Meynard was of the fame opin
ion.
Chauiboil. 1 vote for the appeal
to the people ; 1 alio vote that the
abolition of Royalty and the etta
blifhment of the Primary Aflemblies
be fikewife submitted to the people.
Baralion. I will be no judge ; my
conscience does not allow it.
Julien. 1 ain inverted with un
limited powers ; and in virtue of
my Legislative capacity, 1 do de
clare that Louis is guilty.
LONDON, Jan. 12.
The combined armies destined to
aagainlYKrance ihe eufuing spring
will, ii is {"aid, amount to more than
300,000 men. The Auftiian and
Pruflian troops will be each under
a separate command.
It was, yetterday, reported, at the
public offices, that the French had
ordered thirty-five fail of the line,
and more than twenty frigates to be
prepared for the lea.
The cloaihs and other effs&s of
the late King and of t rauce,
found at the ThuiUeries, 011 the
loih of Aiigufl, were to be lold by
audtiou in Paris, last Monday.
*
• 7 -.in'/ ?
T he term of Lord George Gor
don's confinement expires in the
course of this week.
Mi\ Secretary Dunda's new Mi
litia Bill, is nothing more than to
supply an extraordinary defeat in
the last—which left out the usual
clause to compel parishes to provide
for the families of Militia men,
when called out on aiftual service,.
The Lion man of war of 64 guns,
Captain Sir E- Gower, which failed
some time since with Lord Macart
ney and his suit on board, in com
pany with the Hindoftan East India
inaq, as a florefhip, is bound with
the partner,to the port of Yfelcuph,
in the yellow fea,which is the near
est to Pekin, the capital of China,
from whence it is distant less than
thirty leagues.
An old Scotch Peer's advice to his
son is ftrongly.td be recommended
to our present young men—to be
underhovfed, underhoufed, and un
derwived.
When Sedition was openly Walk
ing in every part of the Kingdom,
doineftic traitors, desirous of keep
ing Englishmen unprepared to re
pel ihe meditated attempts against
the country, impudently arterted in
their conversations, as well as in
their publications, that every fear
was merely ideal, and that neither
sedition or infurreftion existed in
any part of the BritiJh Empire.—
Equally ki defiance of all truth, and
equally tor the traitorous purpose
of putting Englishmen off their
guard, it is now aflerted that go
vernment are not vigorous in
their preparations for war, and
that they are endeavoting to hold
out an idea of peace ; the direcft re
vetfe is notoriotifly the trnth—pre
parations were n-ever move vigor
ous— and Lord Grenville's answer
to the Would-be Aniballador, is a
deciflve proof that Administration
neither hold out an idea of pro
babiliryof, or wiili for, peace whu
modern France.
Lord Amherft is appointed com.
rounder in Chief oft he BritWh Army.
Official Particulars of the recent ac
lion at Hock-Heiui, between the'
French and the coinbiued Prul
fian and Auiti ian armies.
Head Quarters,Hockheim, Jan. 7,1793.
Yesterday afternoon his Prutfi-au
Majesty, accompanied by his Seiene
Highness the Duke of Brunfwick
arrived hare, from the action whirh
took place at liocKlifTuV. Bis Mr.
jeity honored (he Theatre »uh ii'S
pretence, and went afterwards ti*
rhe hall given hy his Royal High,
ness the Prince Royal of Pruflia.
All we knew of the atftion is, thi C
It was very fniart 011 both fides.
The French troops Rationed «t
Cafl'el, under the command u{(ieiv
Neuwinger, wauled to force their
way to Hockheitn, but the Helßfu
and Prnffian troops contested this
paflage with that valour which they
are so renowned for.
Prince Hohenloe, whose head
quarters are at Wcifbaden, arrived
likewise in the field of battle, and
attacked the French in the flank,
which forced them to make a pre
cipitate retreat to their entrench
ments at Cafiel. On this occaiion
the Prulfian General Wolfrath had
his horse shot under him.
When zhe Kingof I'j uffiaeuxered
Hocktieim, twelve Frenchmen, wlia
were concealed in the tower above
the town-ga:e, fired down with muf
quets and carabines upon his Ma-
jelly, who was then very close but
providentially escaped without be-
ing hurt. A Heflian detachment
immediately ruflied into the tower,
and cut those murderous Frcnch
banditti in pieces.
The French left 300 men dead
and wounded on the field. The
Heflian Chafl'eurs have fuffered con
siderably.
This afternoon 160 Frenchmen,
and 12 pieces of cannon, vere
brought in here, preceeded by 12
trumpeters, as trophies of the en
gagement.
More prisoners are expected to
morrow,
A French Colonel lias jiifl been
brought in prisoner.
January jg.
The executive government of France displays
its usual confiflcncy in calling on the United
Sates of America tu'.fill the treaty def entire
and offenfive, « nte«fd into by them with Louil
XVI. wh'le his dcpofition from the throne i»
considered by that very government as a ground
tor violating every treaty they have unfortu
nately ratified with the powcis of Europe. A
very little attention, however, to the affairs of
the American State. 1 -, since the last peacc, will
diflipate every idea, that they can fofar sOl get
their befl mtetei'ts, as ro taKe a part in the dil
femions of Europe. All the advantage* which
could be deuvrd to them from becoming par
ties in a war, would be the casual, partial and
di(honorable ga»n, which rriight refujt to
v>duals from privateering expeditions; and (he
loss, in fitch cases, would be, the infinite bent
fits, both civil and political, which an infant
ftatc mud derive, in a very pre-eminent degree#
from the blcfling of peace. The never failing
care and commanding iuflutnre ol Mv. W/oin
inton, which have hitherto preserved biscoun
try from the miferyr of feuds among its people,
will, we doubt not, be cfFe&tfally exerted to
save it aI so from the calamities of war with other
nations.
January 2T
Our learned and eloquent Secretary of State
sets out, i»i his elaborate rescript, with faying
that he fhatl give M.Chauvelin no credit,but
as he is accredited by the King of France.
No such perlortage being now in exiftence t
what degree of credit can be given him . He
would then, it seems, in no fort whatever
treat with a minister from the Republic o
France; in his own high-raindednefs, an
high-mightmefsfhip, not allowing that coun
try to alter its government, when the ™ a J°
rity of it think ic fit. What would Oliver
Cromwell not only have said, but have °" e »'
had Mazarine refused to acknowledge ie
sovereignty of the Republic of England i
would have destroyed with his fleet all t e e
ports of France towards the Mediterranean.
In the Iri/h Houfeof Lords, theiyotion
an add:eft to his Mojeiiy on the fpce c « a yj r
opening of the fe/fion, was made by t e <
of Weftmeath, ahd carried unanimoiifly.
motion for an addre s to the Lord Lien ei
was made by Lord Viscount Dillon* an
posed by the Duke of Leinfler 5 on which Loro
Por tar ling ton said, lie was sorry todmer
the noble Duke, with whom he hadfo 0
agreed; but in the present instance e .
that it was as necefTary in Ireland for - •
ment to unite and relist the enemies ®
Constitution, as it was in England,
party was laid aside to save the count y.
knew not of any parties in this countrv,
if there were, he wai (enlble that t
give place to the more i:nportaa»t con
tion of the public fafcty-On the queffion being put, the Duke was
the oiilv diffentfant. . .
Ireland, with that loyalty and political pru
dence which we exported file would display,
W which the Engiiih Jacobins hoped fl»e
would not, has given the fin idling blow to
£.ftion. The incendiaries of France, and
the perturbed spirits of the phalanx, have now
their profpe&s blasted. Their diabolical en
deavors to divide Great-Britain and Ireland,
the more surely to ruin both, have been frus
trated : and France and Faction have now to
dread the united exertions of Britannia and
Hibernia to suppress anarchy and Jacobin po
litics.
Mad D'Eon, after all the vicUTmides and
insularities of her extraordinary life, is like
>* to dole it in happiuefs, if competency can
confer felicity. The mother of this heroic
female lately died ift France, at the age ol
eighty-seven, and has left her daughter a con
siderable fortune.
Mrs. Baleman, of Soho-fquare, is prepar
ing a public breakfaft in honour of Madam
JJ'Eon's accellion to a comfortable indepen
dence. There is to be a concert oil the occ*-
fion and a grand exhibition in the art of fenc
1112' to which the ci devant Chevalier has
pro'mifed to contribute all the flail which time
and want of practice have left her.
Domestic Articles.
BOSTON, March 13.
Yesterday being assigned by the hon. House
ef Representatives, for coming to a choice,
on their part, of a Federal Senator ; the bal
lots were taken, when the number ot votes
given in were 199—100 making a choice—
The Hon. Caleb Strong, Esq. had 113 votes,
and was chosen. This gentleman is there
fore re-ele&ed.
" YelWrdny, m ttae-hon. Supreme Judicial
Court, the action of trespass, for assault and
battery, brought by the Hon. Benjamin Aus
tin Esq. against the Editor of the CENriNEi.,
was tried—and after a hearing, which conti
nued the whole day, the Jury gave their ver
dict for the Plaintiff.
A correspondent thinks it rather extraordi
nary, that the charges brought against the Se
cretary of the Treasury of the United States,
by Mr. Giles, should have found their way
into the Argui of yesterday •> and the dec'fwn ot
Congress thereon, be loft before they could ar
rive— when it i» well known they both set out
in company together from Philadelphia. Nor
can the fame correfpoudent account why a
former string of Resolutions introduced by
Mr. Giles, flionld appear in the Chronicle, and
the Report of the Secretary of the Treasury,
in consequence thereof, be excluded. It is
believed, the public are not fatisfied with this
mode ol doing business.
frm the Journals of the Municipality tf
iait-Frmcoiu to tie l.rftqn oj the 31J? oj Oecey-
ier, i? 9«.
Extrafl from the Resolves oj said day.
«'Art.V. EVERY matter or owner of ves
sel, either French or Foreigner,(hall be bound
to make a declaration of the number of lo
xeigners on board his vefiel, mentioning both
their age and name. No matters ot such ves
sels (hall, under the penalty of 1500 livres, let
any one of their passengers come on (hore
without a permit from the Municipality ; and
in cafe his or theirdeclaration {honld be prov
ed falfe, he or they (hall be severely punished
for such offence.
(Signed)
Certified as a true translation from the ori
gjtaij resolves recorded in the journal ot the
dtSice of the Municipality.
CARRE, ft. Interpreter to the
Municipality of ( ape Ft."
A copy of the above will be delivered each
Captain on his arrival at the Cape, or other
port of St. T)omingo, and a receipt exacted lor
the fame, in order that they may not plead
ignorance of this Decree, (pf* The Printers
throughout the United States are requefled to pubnjh
the above.
Mr; Fen no,
The North-Car oli n a Journal, printed at
Halifax, contains the following article—which y
fleaje to pubhfh, with the lines annexed, and oblige
Your's,
Halifax, March 6.
THE neighboring Sportfnien are informed,
that a Main of Twenty-one COC.KS will be fought
in this Town, on Thur'Vlay the 14th inft.
fROM Britain's ijle this cruel pnflime came,
dfport that puts humanity to jhame :
Mound the pit the gamblers take their Jland,
While bets and ooths pervade th y unfeeling band
this they call plea fare- but % 'tis love of gain
Vhichgh e thegroupe alternate joy and pain.—
Hence all the tricking ajfti are here difptay'd.
By which the vilest gamejlers prop their trade.
In Rome t when cruel scenes were all the rage y
Vawe.~cocks and quails were butcher*d on the Jlage
Irom fenes like thtpe, the gladiators Jprwg-
Which Rome's proud honors hath on Gibbets hung-
Aoo> Britain, thousands to a circus draws,
Her princes ihne tobruifers shout applauje J
7he days of chivalry Ja\s Burke arc gore^
but a worse era is Jaft pojling on.
EXTRACT,
* Afl immoral man can pojfibly be a (rue patriot;
tnd all ihofe who piofeis outrageous zeal for the
liberty and prosperity cf ihcir country, and at
the fame time infringe her law , affront her re-
I'gion and debauch her people, are but d {pica
ble quicks, by fraud or ignorance iucreafing the
difordcf* they pretend to remedy."
Chevalier, Mayor, and
Gkanier, s.v.
Philadeipihia,March 2-5.
JBSTRACr of FOREIGN NEWS.
THE citizen-fold iers ot France who h id been
prtfonersin Luxemburg,complained to ihe Con
vention of cruel treatment received from the
enemy while in their hands; tli&y had bern
beaten with fticki and fahres, and f< d with
mouldy bread—they demanded fpcedy ven-
geance. Referred to the military committee.
The Mayor of Paris, in an aefcount of the state
of the Capital, given in to the Convention, re
presents the city as in a very critical situation,
owing to the depreciation of the note* in circu
lation^—alarms wlpefling provisions—tradesmen
wanting employ—complaints agamil the adrnt
niflraiiofi ofihe ports—flownels of tWeWttel to
Ie widows of thole who have been hutricd \o
:he frontiers—concealed enemies in brothels
and gaming koulc.% &c. See. but the departments
of the police are exerting themselves to remedy
every disorder.— The total of the aimed Force
at Parisyon the sth January, is dated at *27,089 ;
these are compofcd of 116*452 National Guards,
Gendarmerie &. Conquerors of the Ballile 2423,
Federates 5601.
The Adminiftiators of Frnifterre, in an ad
dress to the Convention, denounce Maral, Ro-
berfpierre, Bazire, Chabot and Merliu, as in
triguers—" expel them (fay they) for you ought
not to breathe the fame air with these villains."
A g'eat tumult followed the reading of this ad-
dress.
General Dumourier, in a letter to the Coven
tion, pathetically def ribes rhedffftitute fttuati'in
of He charges the deficiency to the
war-office, which he fays is become a club. He
fays he has sworn to retire from all public em
ployment on the conclusion of a peace; and
thould this declaration not be fufficient, as soon
as the Republic is delivered from the scourge of
war, to remove all fufp-icion, he promises to im
pose on himfelf the most rigorous ostracism.
He conclude* by frying— But it the
Convention, in the terrible crifu in which we
now are, fh'-ill not tjrant me ihat confidence
to which I think myfell entitled ; if it take pre
cautions against mc ; and if it does not pursue
dccifive measure* rcfpc6\ing the four Memorials
which I submit to us wisdom, then, Citizen
Piefident, I shall immediately prove to my
country, that I have neither avarice nor ambi
tion, by resigning my general (hip, and by
tiring to the country, where I shall continue my
lludieson politics and war, and be ready at all
times to quit my fohtude, when a well regulated
government shall afFord me the means of being
ufeful to my fellow-citizens.
General Valence writes from Liege, that a
body of his troops has fcized, in the Emperor's
treasuries, calh, to th* amount of 200,000 livres.
The Englilh are recruiting their aimy, by
railing independent companies ; 120 ol thele
are oidered to be formed of too men each.
Lord GrenviHe, the British Srcretaty of State,
has anfwercd the ntrte of the French Minister,
M. Chauvelin. This answer is letigihy ; it is
what, in,diplomatic language, is called faifomc,
and contains all the arguments upon ivtiich the
Court has tSketi up the qutftiojh This
tfai been trinTmitt< d ttt 1 he EVecutivf yfTrsncft ;
it had not been communicated to the Adembly.
The Engl.ilh ptragraph adds, that by, this it
would seem as il the Executive Couocil were
deliberating oft the contents, and deliberation'is
constantly tsvorable te peace.
A grenadier of the French army was an
nounced to the National Convention by the Mi
nister of Marine. This citizen soldier had had
an interview with the King of Naples, in which
he had demanded and received of'the King, re
paration of the injury which the French repub- 1
lie fuftnined in refpe& to a noie said to be
sent to the Divan by the Agent of that Prince,
to prevent Semonville trom being rectived as
Ambaflador of France at the Ottofntn Court.
The grenadier, in his fprech to the King, said
hi allowed him only an hour 10 return an an
swer to his demand. The Minister of the King,
within the time, announced, That his Sicilian
Majejly formally and openly difavouii every thing
that may have been done tit his name againjl the
French nation, at Cmjlantinople. This grenadier
was sent from the fleet by Capt. Latquch*,
then jn the harbour with a Fiench squadron.
The diplomatic dispute between' France
and England, according to the notes which
bare pafled between Lord Grenville, the Bri
tilh Secretary of State, and M. Le Brun, the
French Minister, appears to be reduced to
two points, viz.—First. The Decree of the
National Convention of the 19th November,
which the Britilh Minister considers as " a#-
trouncing to the jeditiou 1 if all nations, the cases in
which they may depend previoujltt on the fufport and
ajftjlance ojFrance." On this M. Le Brun fays,
'« Nothing could be more strange than this
reproach to the sentiments of the National
Convention." He disclaims all intention on
their part of favoring the ieditious, or en
couraging mobs.—The second point is the
Scheldt. On this the British Minister fays,
" England will never consent that France
shall arrogate the power of annualling at her
pleasure, and under the pretence of a pretend
ed natural right, of which she makes herfelt
the only judge, the political system of Europe,
«ftabli<hed by lojemn treaties, and guaranteed
by the consent of all the powers." In answer
to this the French Minister " the treaty
in question was concluded by' (he Empero'',
without the participation of th» Belgians—
The Emperor, to secure the poffVOlon of the
low countries, facrificed without fcrtiple, the
most inviolable of rights." The Minister of
France alks, " but is France authorized t<t
break the stipulations whidi are opposed to
the liberty of the Scheldt? If the rights of
Nature and thole of Nations are consulted,
and not France alone, all the nations ot Eu
rope are authorized to do it—there can be
110 doubt of it."
The Senate of Massachusetts have appointed
the Rev. Dr Parker, Mioiftrr ot one of the
Episcopal Churchea, to preach the next anniver
sary Elt&iou Scunon.
339
Accounts by the (hip Tryal fay, that the
ghfh Packet had four (hot fired at her by a
French frigate as she w?nt out of Ltfbon, with
intention 10 bring the Packet too, but she rr'ufed
to fliicken fail, and proceeded on her voyage
with hoisted colours.
1 *»e Englilh papers are filled with accounts of
the preparations of that nation tor War—that
eKclufive of the King's bounty of five pounds,
the counties bad offered an additional recom
pense of fifty (hillings to every seaman who would
enter the fleet; the confluence ot which was,
that men weve enlisting exuemely toft.
They were prefliog men fa ft at Liibon when
the Tryal failed, and the place was ttrongly for
tified-*-* goo had been pressed in one night, and
the common jails almost emptied. The people
in Lisbon are alarmed* fearing a visit from the
French fleet, whifh is said 10 be on very refpec
tal.ie Tooting.
The story of the maXTacre of the French garri
son at Frankfort, is totally contradioed by & let
ter in the English papers, dated at that place af
ter the rirtaking of it by the Pruflians—the re
verse WW the fa&,an<i this, the letter fays, has
been auefted hy the French prifoncrs thevnfe.lvcs
i i) letters to'the National Convention—The citi
zen of Ftankfort, at the hazard of their lives,
rescuing the French from the fury of the enemy.
" I yas lamenting to one of the members of
the Convention (fays an English paragraphia)
that a gteat deliberating aflcmbly {hould thus be
convened into a theatre of noise, threats and
contuftofa. Pardieu ! fa id he, alluding to the
laTc dagger scene, but if our senate is a bear
garden, yours is a mountebank, stage. It is cu
rious, added he, that nobody in France {hould
know any thing of these terrible daggers made
id England, and that the French nation {hould
be accufcd of aliaflinating with a weapon that
since the revolution was never worn or n-ffd,
uplefs by the Chevaliers du Poignard, the king's
friends, who were disarmed in the Thuilleries
on r the *22d of-Feb. 1790, and taken into cu(io
dy, with the fame concealed weapons, at the
Po,nt T9urnant, on the toth ol August, »79 2,
U is not therefore aftonilhing, that Mr. li— —
ftvould Vearthe pnecotiar weapon of the *»artv
hefupports; but it is strange that he (hould
charge upon his enemies the fins of his friends.
As to hi* arcufation of it reminds me of
the well known story of the German, who,
quarreling with his landlady at Blois, wrote
down in his album, that all the women of that
city were red haired and scolds. I relate this
convei fation, because I think it is just in all cafcs
that both fides Ihould be heard."
It has been repeatedly said that Mr. Burke
. a penfioner.—ln his speech against Mr.
Fox's motion in the Hotife of Commons for
fending an Ambaflfador to Fiance—Mr. Butke
make? the following declaration :—
strange as it might appear to some gen
tlemen with whom he formerly acted, he af
firmed, in the face of the house and his coun
try " I retain, and ever will, my indepen
dence—l have made no provision for myfelf or
family—We are not in the pofl'cfiion of any
office ; neither cajoled by the reversion of
place, nor by the promise of penfibn—and yet,
because I have warmly expreSed my abhor
rence of the French doctrines, I am pursued
and reviled with all the force of rancour and
hostility."
In the Senate of" this state on Thursday
]ast, on the motion to postpone the confidcra
tion of the firft feftion of the bill for erecting
the Bank of Pennsylvania, in order to intro
duce a fubftitutc for the purpose of vesting
the inactive monies of the state in the flock
of the Bank ofNorth America—the yeas and
nays being called by Mr. Morris', seconded by
Mr. Sinilie, were as follow :
YEAS.—Messrs. Morris, Thomas, Jenks,
Schmyfer, Coats, and Sellers.
NAYS. —Messrs. Scott, Edie, Hoge, Smilie,
Kennedy, Brown, Heifter, Hanna, Smith,
Montgomery, and Moore.
In favour'of erecting the panic of Pennsyl
vania, x I to 6.
ExtraS of a letter dated Fott St Clair, Jon. 11.
it This place is garriloned by ISO riflemen.
A few days since some Indians near Fort Jef
ferfon, were discovered ; one of thc®was
Ihot at and wounded. They were tl'tp'ii ft
that has been discovered since the battle with
the Kentuckians on the 6th November iaft."
Nor folk, (V.) March 9.
Oo Tuesday fcft as a Canoe, wiih five pcrfons
in her, was cioffing from Portfmouih to this
town, the wind being very high, (he upfct and
went down. Captain Tvrell, ot the schooner
"Polly, from Weymouth, MalTachufetts, happen
ing to belaftiing from the wharf, immediately
jumped into his boat, and kindly rendered every
afiiftance in his power, but was only foitunate
enough to f#ve three ot them.
STATE OF NORTH-CAROLINA.
In General Assembly, Dcc. 34, 1792
Resolved, That tht thanks of this General
Aflembly be prefentcd 10 the Hon. Samuel
lohnston, tor his faithful Cervices as Senator
of this Hate to the Congrcfs of Ihe United Sutes
_ and that the Speakers of both Houf. s be re
duelled 10 tranfinit him the said relolution.
W. LENOIR, S. S.
SHIP NEWS.
AkRIVtD«/f*< PORT (/PHILADELPHIA.
Bri#fletfcy, Clark, St.Thoma»
Kcziah, Guyer, Port-au-Prince
§ch'r Kecovtry, Fortefcue, Trinidad
Sloop Aflive, I-ukf, Virginia
Greyhound, Afcftld, ditto
PHILADELPHIA.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, *8/4
3 per Cent», ,c / 5
Deferred, * >J3
Full Quid Bank U. S. 15 per «"'•
TifCendiafy -writers, an hitelins pjcfr, and
fa&ious men who foment discontents to
gain elections have given themselves i o
breathing fpeli in their talk of making mis
chief fined our free conititution was propoictf
to the public.-—We hear of j&ritiili fa<sHoiis— f
hut more profligate lies or more maligna;.t
suspicions were never scattered in any coun
try on earth in ord-r to bring the govern
ment and its officers into contempt tmd al>-
horrence. The only chance in the favor <>t
government is the found sense of the people—
and truly none was ever more tried or mote
intuited* Much will it redound to the honor
of our citizens if they disregard in future, a*
they have heretofore done the seditious arts
of their enemies. But if our airairs fhou d
get into confiifion, it will fliew that we have
thought better of ourfclvea and the world has
been kind enough to think better of us as a
nation than we deserve. They will lay the
constitution was the work of the wisest and
best men—but it has been mar'd by the inoft
worthless.
Happy is it for a people when intrigue gets
entangled in a net ofits own weaving—thonefty
is always a match for cunning and fa lie patri
otism, in a fair and candid investigation of it*
motives and condufl—E.n\'y may raise a mi ft,
but time and reflexion diflipave the vapor*,
and a wife and enlightened people award the
tribute of applause to solid merit.
\Ye have heard of the inestricaole difficul
ties of the people ; we have heard of the in
toterable burthens they are at this moment groan
ing under—and we now hear from the Jame
quarter, 44 that by a combination oi favorable
cir omittances, or the collected good ienfe of
its inhabitants, the country has extricated it
felf from a few what a
pity that certain reftle's spirits cannot ail nine
to themselves any of the honor—and tha{
neither in prose or one lolitary publi
cation can be found to celebrate their praife f
Friends of merit, ere you indulge your feel
ings, consult the tor their
indignation is excited at every mode of cx
prefiing your sentiments, which is not dictat
ed by themselves.
S. CABARRUS, S. H. C
COMMUNICATIONS*
The mi (chief makers have pretended that
there was a corrupt majority in Congress
watching for opportunities to swell up the
debt—because debts and taxes create a cor
rupt influence. It is time to d<op this arti
cle from the impeachment, becanie it would
involve the dear friends of liberty, the pure
enemies of anti re publican publip iaith and
ariftocratical public crcdit and older. On
the business of the army claim, the oppofers
of Treasu r y influence would (at least they fi\i
they would) allow millions more debt in
vor of the late army and original certificate
holders. Abu fed and deceived citizens—who
on this occasion were the men to hurt up
claims to swell the public debt—which will
you give credit to—words —big fwellinj
woMs"of vanity ami deceit—of plain
that speak louder?
Vinall's Arithmetic.
THE Second £dition of this wok., with im
provements, will speedily be put to p'efs.
The rapid sale ot the fit ft edition*, greatly be
yond the author's moll fjnguine expc&aiions,
encourages him to print a second coition, lie
intends to have it printed upon much better pa
per than the former, and with a new type.
Tliofe Booksellers who wilh to take a num
ber of copies in (beets, are riquclted to apply to
the author for particulars.
* jooo Copies.
At a meeting of the School C»m4iiTtei,
February sth, 1793-
The Committee, appointed to examine " The
Pieceptor'i Afliftant, or Student's Guide," being
a fyftemaucal treatise of Arithmetic, by John
Vi nal l, teacher of the Mathematics & Writ
ing, in Bolton, reported, thai they have attended
that service, and are of opinion, that the work
is executed with judgment, and is as well calcu
lated for the use of schools, counttni} houses, and
private families, as anv of the fame compafj
that has hitherto been offered to the public.
Votid, That the above report be accepted,
and that Mi.Vinall be futnilhed wilh a copy
of it, whenever he shall defirc it.
Copv of the Records. Attest,
CHARLES BULFINCH, Sec'ry.
The following charader of the above work,
it given in the Review of the MaJJachuJctls Ma
gazine, ior Jan. 1793 :
14 This is a very uleful work, and is no ill
proof oi the judgment and industry of the author.
The rules are laid down with propriety, and
(he examples annexed ate fufficient for their iW
luftratioil. One part ot the work deserves par
ticular commendation. We mean that which
the author lkiles " Mercantile Arithmetic " U
occup cs a considerable portion of his honk, but
not more than its importance will juftify.
would recommend to the young Arithmetician
to pay a particular attention to this branch.
He will find its principles well explained- And
Ihould he make himfelf matter ol them, be will
always have reason to acknowledge his Obliga
tion to the judicious arid laborious author. Wq
cannot but congratulate the rising generation on
account of the many ufeful produ£li<ns which
have lately appealed j and in which then uu.
provement hal betn principally colifultcd.—
Among ibofe pioduflions we must place tbii
treatifc of Arithmetic. We Ihould be wanting
in iuftice 10 the author, Ihould we not
I, dge that his work is in reality that which us
title imports—The P* to «f tor's A»iHT ak IS.,
or Student's Guidi.'*
I. C. A. S,
Mofin, fci- ij>
(£3" Tht price of this Gvzette is Three Do'lmr
per anm.ir.—Ont hij l» *» f'ld at the time ofJ&-
Jctihng.FOR SALE,
t) the Subjcriher, at Walnut-Strut Wharf,
BILL or EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
yit for immediate ule, in pipes & quarter calls,
TENERJFFE WINE, in pipes,
SHKRftY WINE, in quarter casts,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proof,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPEKAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLLM,
Two Bal< s 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13-4 Inch C 120 fa'homs long,
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jan. iq, tplm
TO be SOLD, OK LEASED
FOR SEVEN OR TKN Y LARS,
THE FOLLOWING
o u
O'tfE on Walnut.ftiect, near Fourth-street,
23 feet hont, has two parlours below, the
front one 21 -J by t'yj feet, the back parlour is
18 by 14 feet. The front room 11 p stairs is
by feet. There are five good chainbcrs in
this house, besides the garret is divided into
three rooms, in two ol them there are fire
places.
The other House is 27 feet upon Walnut
iireet, and 52 feet upon 4th street; there are two
good parlours below, me of them 25 by 20 1-2
feet, the other 25 by 18 1-2 feet, and seven com
plete bed-chambers ; hcfnles the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 ot which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largest house has also a
houfe-keepet's room. Ii is intended there shall
be a communication from both of these houses
to a neighbouring ice-houfc, fufficiently large to
supply 3 houses. Wiihin 50 yards of these
houses, there will be compleat stables and coach
houses, for hoth houses ; they will be finished
in the mod compleat man,ner, ana the keys
ready to be delivered early in the summer.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
orh r half may be paid bv inftalinema. or the
whole may remain tor 5 years, paying intoeit
and giving security on the premises.
for terftik of takor lcafe, apply to the Sub*
fcri^r,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has Jor SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
fixteeu (hillings and fix-pence, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS, that will contain two
and a halt and three and a half bushels.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1792. ep2m
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BREED.
HE was impoitcrd hum England in Novem
ber, fevenieen hundred and eighty-fix, and
is now ten years old ; he is a bright bay, with a
blaze, fifteen hands one. inch high, is well form'd,
has a great deal of bone and ft,rcnuth, and his
»£tion equal 10 any horse. His colts are well
approved of in the different parts of the State
where he has (food, of which any person inclined
to purchase can inform themselves. Enquire
of the Printer.
February 18, 1793.
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in ihis City will be of
fered tor sale at auction, by the Commit
fioners, on the 17th day of September next. —
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interrft on the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT) Clerk to the Com'rs.
Extra# of an Ast of the General Afl'embly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Washington.
"■ Be it enaftedj That any foreigner may by
deed or will, hereafter to be made, take and hold lands
within that part oj the Jaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the Jane lands may be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of this State : Provided, That no foreigner Jhall,
in virtue hereof, be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen
' J an » *9- tf
PROPOSALS
For re-prlnting a new, entertaining and
inftru&Lve Work, intitkd,
THE
Errors of Education.
BY MRS PARSONS,
Jnjl ability of mind impedes our road
and youth, if vet animated by
illujlrate the precepts of virtue, will
ever jail into ERROR.
The European edition of this work, printed
la It year, fells at 12s. the two volumes, (and few
copies, tj any, to be had at that price )—T\w* JLrJI
American edition, which fha 11 be well executed,
on an entire new type and fine papet, will he
delivered to fubferibers in one volume of about
420 pages 12mo. neatly bound, at a French Crown
tach, to be paid on receiving the book, which
will be put to press as loon as a fufficient num.
"ber of fubfcri.ptions are obtained to defray the
expense of the undertaking.
03* Sjtpjlriptions will be received at the Bookstores
of Mejfrs. T. Dok son, W, Young, J. Crukjhank, and
B. John son, and at Mr. Henry Hammered s y A r o. 24,
North Third jlreet, Philadelphia ; by Mejf.R.Hodge,
S. Campbell, and T. Allen, Bcokjrller), New-York;
by Mejfrs. Day S3 Co. Printers, Trenton ; by the
Subscriber, in Burlington \ and by others in whose
hands fubfription papers arc lodged.
Feb. 18, 1793.
DmtKICT e/PIjjMJYIVANMA, to &<it.
13 E IT REMEMBERED, Th.r on
[ Sta/. 1 U the thineenth day of March, in
\ f J Ihe leventecnth year of [he Indepen
d nee of the United Stales of America,
Thomas Dobson, of the said D'ftrift, hathde
p<>(ited in this Ortire, the Title of a Book, the
Right whrreof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following, to wit.
In conformity to the A.& of the Congress of.
the United States, intituled, 44 An A& lor die
Encouragement of Learning, bv fecttiing ihe
Copies of Maps, Charis and Books, lo the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, duimg the
Times therein mentioned."
$3" The above work is fold in Char!ejl>m by
William Price Young : Richmond 9 by Archibald
Carrie : Baltimore, b\ Janet Rice: NcwYork)
by Thomas AH en : Boflon, b\ David Jtefl.
Bookseller, at the Stone-Hovfc, in Second Jlreet,
Philadelphia,
ok, a DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
AND MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new : . '
»Y WHICH >
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS >
THE History, Theory, and Pra£lice, of each,
according to the Latcft Difcovcries anr. im
provements : and full Explanations given et the
various detached parts of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural and Artificial Obje&s, or to
Matters Ecclt fiaftical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, See. Including Elucidations of the most im
portant Topics relative to Religion,Morals,Man
ners, and the Oeconomy of L fe : together with
a D fcription of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, &c. throughout
the WoHd ; a General History, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empires, Kingdoms,
and States ; and an account of the Lives of the
most Eminent Persons in every .Nation, from the
eailieft ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the best author?, in
several Languages ; the most approved Dictiona
ries, as well of. General Science as of particular
branches; the Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned fucieties, both at home and
abroad—the MS. lettures of eminent profeffors
on different Sciences : and a variety of
Materials, furnifhed by an extensive Correfppn*.
dence.
Ihe Seventh Volume contains a description
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Expe
rimental Philosophy, System of Farriery, Feudal
fyftcm, Fire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Foflils, history of France, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Qlafs,
See. with a variety of articles in natural history,
biography and miscellanies. Illuftratcd with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the purpose) which
will be occasionally renewed before they con
tract a worn appearance.
11. Ihe work is furnifhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fu-bferibers chufe; the price
ot the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half.volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finiftied
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
to be paid in advance, andthe,pnce of
each Tbcceeding volume to be paid on-deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five .hundied copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far excecd in number those given in any other
fcicntific d iftionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It isexpeftcd the work will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
({df Those who wish to becomepofTeflors of
thisvaluable work will pleafetobe earlv in their
applications, as the fubfeription is nearly closed.
Jan. 23.
BANK OF THE UNITEDSTATES.
RESOLV ED,
THAT any person residing in Europe, who
(hall authorize the President, Dircflors and
Company of the Bank of the United States, to
receive annuities, or Intercft arising from the
public debt of the United States of America,
shall from time to timfc have authority to draw
on the {aid President, Dire&ors and Company,
to the amount of the monies by them rccci vcQf,
which drafts fliall be paid without dedu&ton
and free of expence— QV,
The Prrfident, Directors and Company, if re
quested, will remit the monies by them received
to any part of Eurooe, free of expence and with
out dtdu&ion, in Bills Exchange at their cur
rent value, and at the 1 ilk of the pei son to whom
the fame lhall be remitted.
In the FEDERAL CITT LOTTERY,
MajuW had at SAMUEL COOPEU's Ferry.
ISAAC NEALE,
" An Enquiry how Jar the Punifhmentof Death
ic is necefjary m Pennfytvama. With Notes and
" IHuJlrations. By William Bradford, Esq.
•* To which is added, an Account of the Gaol and
" Penitentiary lloufe oj Philadelphia, and of the
•' interior Management thereof. By Caleb
" Low net, oj Philadelphia.——lJ we enquire
" the Causes oj all human Corruptions, wg
44 /hallfind that they proceed from the Impunity
44 oj Crimej, and not from the Moderation oj Pu
mjhtnents.*' Montefq.
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk ol the Dutrift ot Pcnnfyl vania,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
VOLUME VII, OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
aredigefted into the Form of Dulmft,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS:
COMPREHENDING
By the President and Dire&ors,
3 W ' JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
TICKETS
340
B? THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVID
STUART,Si DANIEL CARROLL,
Esquires,
Commission ers appointed by Government to
prepare rhe Public Buildings, &c. within the
City of WaJhinglon % lor the reception of Con>
grcfi, and for liicu permanent refidcoce after
the year 18^0—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
30,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 doilats,
LIST OF PRIZES, vtz
1 SupiM b Hotel, with bathj, £
our htfufei, &c.&c. to coll )
1 Cash Prize
j ditto
i dwto
1 ditto
2 ditto
3 .oco »!e
1,000
500
100
5°
2 .5
so
10
jo ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16.737 Prize*
33,263 Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at Uajl the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its object thereby,
in a magnificent building designed both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some ex pence must necessarily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
Commissioners having agreed to present in re
turn a fuffici'cnt quantity of excellent free-ftone,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottpry
entire may be fairly'rated at something more than
par: In this important instance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all ihe lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when cornpleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate pofleffor of the ticket drawn aagaioft
its number.— All the other prizes will be paid,
without aeduft ion, in one month after the d) awing, by
the City Treasurer at Wafliinglon, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the convenimcy of the fortunate adventurers.
The d rawing will commence on Mondav the
9th of Septembet next, at the City of Washing.
ton,
Tickets may be hail of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
Tieafurrr of Washington ; Tha.tr 0 Burt'et, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Gidron Denijon, Sa
vannah ; Messrs. James Weft & Co. Baltimore ;
Mr. Peter Gtiman, Boston; anrl at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for thebeft Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Batlw, Stables, and other out houses, tfjtrcfentcd
on or before the toth ej April next; and a pre
ference will be giv n 10 the Artist for a Con
trail, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ere£ted, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by zoo feet, witji a
back avenue to the stables, &c. Se&ions and
esti mates of the expense will be cxpefted
with the elevations. See. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars most be regarded by the Architett as the
utmost limit in the expense intended for this
P ur M*e- S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
March 6, 1793.
War Department,
January 28, 1703.
INFORMATION is hereby given to ail the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are entitled for fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on thes»h day of March »7Q}, wili be paid on
the said day by ihe Commiflioners of the Loans
within the states refpefhvcly, under the usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mull be ic
companied by the following vouchers :
The certificate given by the liate, fpecify
ing that the person poffefling the lame is in fact
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as such, he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
A. B. came before me, one of the Justices
of the county of in the state of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his pofT< flion was giv
en, of which the following is a copy fthe cer
tifkate givert by the fhte to be iccited) That
he fcrved (regiment, corps or vessel) at the
time he was disabled, and that he now resides
in the and county of and has rcfided
there for the last years, previous to which
he relided in
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment
by an attorney, the laid attorney, betides'he
certificate and oath before recited, mult produce
a fpccial letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
I, A. B. of countv of state of
do hereby constitute and appoint C. D. of
soy lawful attorney, to reseive in my hi half of
my pention tor fix months, as an Invalid
ot the United States, from the 41b day of Sep
tember X 792, and ending the 4th day ot March
1 "93-
Signed and Sealed
in the Prefcnce of
Acknowledged be fore 'tie,
Applications of executors and admttiflrators
mult be accompamed with legal evidence of
■hc.r refpca.ve offices, and alfoo! the time the
Invalid dud, wlurfe pcnTron they may claim.
11)' Command of ihe Pitfident
of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
yERTISEm£NT -
N .mm " nt,ebj ' 6,veo > T" 1 " 1 'tie Com.
± \ """ioueri appointed bv ike B,> j"
Trulleea of ,he Um.eifity of KVr,h-C., i
will attend at ,he ,(m„ ''
«»th , 9 ,h , n d JOth djys ot Amil n « .£ >V
puipofe receiving piop,.&|, f, (jni f Jc( . J>*
f 41 m *y be diTpoftd to uiajcriike h*m
tng. ol the
*» 1L 1 >«,, 9 , 79
Mathew Carey
RcfpcQful'y inf'rrms ■hr n r T, „ ..
Sm«, that the Mapj for hit mieu'dcV" 1^
_ ; edition <)f
GUtnrie Geop-rartfw
IMPRO V K ' O r J
Are now fn S r a »,fc s „ f , )(H>
number of .hem arc fin.tbed, K> («„„ *
gularfuppy pilhl j u
«. prooably be «,/, , t „ * V*
■will be put i.i ptcis r s ' IIK W0I «'
He returns ark,n,H ! , m „ ll „ |
refpe&able number of .Suhfcnb,,., '
come forward tbu, early to 0 °**
om undertaking. He assure. ,|„ m ~l (1 ,
l.cngener.!, that no pain, or txne£ ' u
fpared in the cxecuuon ot ibe work.
Terms of the Work:
l. IT (hall be published in 48 weeklvm.™'
each containing ib.ee Iheet,, or J "
pa,.., of letter prcls, i„
new type, on fine papei. m
Co, : rfeof ' hc wo,k wi »
ed about I hi.iy large map,, of the fame fee „
those in the European edition., v«. mo st 0 f lh
Iheet maps on pod paper.
fcf Mies the naps in the Bntijh edition u Hi,
workmllcanta,n n.ne or ten JmeruL 5,,,e M a p,
111. 1 he price of each number wiU be'a
quarter Hollar, to be paid on delivery.
fPT" A'o advance required.
, 'Y• Su , b , lc " bc " wh ° disapprove ol the work
oh the publication of iti, thr«£.-ft IMml be,t j,!
to be at liberty to return them, and (hall have
their money repaid.
V. The subscriber,' names lhall be prefixed
a, patrons of the undertaking.
*»* Subscription, received in Philadelphia bv
the intended publ.fher; in New-York, by all
the book fellers; in New-Haven, by Mi. Bee,,,
in Hartford, bv Mr. Patten; in Bnllon, by Metf
1 homas ft Andrews, and by Mr. Weft - in Hal'
timo.e, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond, by Mr
J Carey; in Charleston, by Mr. W. P. Youni;
and by lundry other pctfon, throughoui the
Coiled State,. (,awtf)
50, cOO
25,000
20,0C0
15,000
10,000
10,006
10.000
10,000
10, GOO
10,000
10,000
20,0CG
150,000
Dollars 3511,000
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATHEW CAREY
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.. '
MERICANMUSEUM.fiotn itscommrnrr
/ X ment in January 1787, to June 1702, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and lutcrtd,
feventcen dollars and ihrce fifths.
I his work, which was condu&ed onanim
provtd plan, contains the best puces pub)iford
for and against tKe proceedings of government,
will be fouud to contain-at tea ft as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and miscellaneous eflayi,
as any ever published in America. Perhaps in no
one work are so many valuable documents refpeft.
injr the history of this country, collected together.
His Excellency the President of the United State*,
has declared of it, thai "amore ufefut literary
plan has never been undertaken in An>erica,nor
one more deserving of public encouragement."
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on Nurf
inn; and the management of Children.
" We recommend these letters to the perusal of
those to whom they are particularly addietTed."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101—Price, bound.
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—-75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of B!a!r~-50 crnts.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss
More's Essays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pennine-
Jon's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady,Mit. Cba
pone on command of Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6f6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Piicc a dol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Mo™f3tteTTce,"bv ftfmrrßeaf
tie, 1.1.d. profeffor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay: "We
have seen nothing on these fubjc&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."——
N. B. It is introduced into the Univeiftiyin Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-fifths of a
dollar.
to. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars,
ii. N-ckcr'sTreatifc on the-importance of Rc
igious Opinions..—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Obfeivations ol Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bihs of a dollar.
13. The Constitutions oi the fcveral United States,
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Pricejive
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'FingaJ. Pricethree-eighths of p dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Pricc three-fifths of
a dollar.
t6. Garden of the Soul,
17 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—Price, elegantly bound and lettei
-50/2 —plfiin, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vadc Mccura—Pric*
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar#
20. Christian Economy. Price a fiftn of 2 Hollar*
at. Hi dory of Charles Grandifon, abridged—
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Pricea third
of a dollar.
23. Setett Poems, chicfly A merican-—Price a
ixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large alTortrrenf of
Books, European as weH as American edttiofu ft
which he will dispose of on the inoft reufonable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor b'.niwith
commands, may depend upon being fnpplied io
the mod fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
so such as purchase quantities for public libiaritf
or to fell again.
RHjKR K K"HARGETT.
book S,
Price half a dollar.