OfM
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AN'O SATURDAYS I> -JOHN FEN NO, No. 34. HO Pill FIFTH-STREET, A
[No. 64 of Vol. IV.]
sj* 'v
CONGRESS.
HOUSE or REPRESENTAnrES.
WEDNESDAY, January a.
De bate on Mr. SrgEie's motion for
of the Military
Establishment of the
United States.
In Committee of the Whole. Mr. White
i— Ciair*
Mr. Wadfworth firft noticed Mr.
Steele's statements and calculations.—
These he said, were erroneous, and even
if cone&, the inferences the gentleman
had drawn from them, did not appear to
himjuft. He was fuiprifed the gentle
man (hould so pofitivelv have pledged
himfelf for their accuracy, when they
were so very far from deserving that cha
racter. As the statements of Mr. Steele
had been published to the world he tho't
it right to Hate in what they aie errone
ous.
The great object of that gentleman in
offering his calculations to the House,
was to (hew a prodigious progrefiive en
creafe in the expences of the war depart
ment, since the establishment of the new
government. Fc)r this purpose he had
compared what he Hated as the appropri.
ations of the years 1790, 1791, and
1792, with one another, and with the
sum now called for from that department
for the year 1793.
Mr. Wadfworth proceeded to (hew the
inaccuracy of the gentleman in this at
tempt, by the following llatement.
Mr. Steele stated, that for 1790, the
appropriations for the Quartet-matter's
department amounted to
Whereas the sum appropri
ated was
Omitted by Mr. Steele
For the holpital in the
fame year, Mr. Steels
states r>ooo
Bum actually appropriated 1,250
Omitted
for contingencies in the
fame year, Mr. Steele
states 3,000
-Snm a&ually appropriated 3,750
Omitted
Pay, fubdflence and cloa
thing for 1790, Mr.
Steele llates 126,020
■Sum actually app. 147,100. 8
Omitted
•'Total omiflions for 1790
In the year 1791,
Mr.Steele states the Quar
termafker's department at 25,000
Sum really appropriated 75,000
Omitted
The ho (pita) department 1,635.20
JUally appropriated 5,635.20
Omitted
Contingencies at
Appropriated
Opiittcd
'ay, fubfiilence, and
doatliing, at
jipropriated
ij8,475-8o
331,788.20
Omitted
Total omiffiopa
Omitted
Fay, Subsistence, and
cloathing
Appropriated
Total omiflions for 1791 Dolts. 567,530.72
Fiom the foregoing, the inaccuracy of
Mr. Steele's flatements, and of the calcu
lations founded on them, were evident.
The prodigious rapid cncreafe of the war
department expences did not appear, ynd
the gentleman's saving plan, founded on
the difference of the appropriation for
J792, and the sum estimated for 1793,
proved very trifling indeed, amounting
to a few thousands only.
Mr. Wadfwoith said he did not posi
tively pledge himfelf for the absolute ac
curacy of his statements, but if there were
errors in them he ventured to fay they
were but tiifling.
He next took notice of Mr. Steele's ar
guments relative to the ordnance depart
ment. Fiom what had been said by that
gentleman on this he truly thotight, as he
had exprefied it, that the business boie a
ludicrous appearance . but on further en
quiry, by looking over an account of the
expenditures of the war department, it ap
peared that the large sums appropriated
for the ordnance department, far from be
ing expended in the purchase of cannon,
not one (hilling had gone to that life, it
was all for repairs to arms, See. The state
ment of the gentlemen in this particular
he could not conceive confident with can
dour.
As the gentleman from N. C. relied his
aflertion ofarbufes in the war department,
on the ftatern,entß he had produced, these
aflmioiis, he conceived, he fufSgiently
answered, by ffiewing the statements inif
ftated.
Hollars
15,000
20,000
J,ooo
Mr. Wadfworth referred to parts of the
Secretary at war's reports to (hew that
that officer had been in favour of concilia
tory, and averse to hostile measures with
the Indians, to another part to fhnw hid
opinion where and how militia were effec
tive.
250
He next turned to the causes of the
war. The establishment of a war depart
ment was, in his opinion, by no means, as
had been fuggetled, the cause of the In
dian war, but rather theeffeft. The war
existed before the eftablilhment of the pre
sent government, it is an inheritance from
the old confederation and so is the war
department. The history of its origin
and progtefs was in record and might be
traced by a reference to the resolves of
congress. The war exitted in 1784. A
communication received some years back
from the executive of Georgia would e
vince its exigence and shew its violence.
The executive complained that the fron
tier was too thinly fettled, and some coun
ttes broken up, and ordered out 3000
men to protest it,—since that even the
city of Savannah was, he had heard, so
fenoufly threatened,that the citizens were
obliged to keep guard in it—and this be
fore the prefcat war system.
Neither could the present mode of car
rying on the war be called the creature of
the war department. It was rather the
Prelident s war,—or the war indeed of
the house, the war of the legislature : the
plan was a good one as the experience of
the Prefulent in these wars made him a
proper judge ; it had his approbation and
we know it.
rJ°
21,080. 8
27,080. 8
50,000
4,000
5,000
30,060
25,000
173,312.4 a
»J»,3»»-40
Wednesday, January 9. 1795.
!ji tj/ i?r a.
Mr. Steele stales tftt <^nar
termafter's deprt. at 50,000
Sum really appropriated 120,000
Omitted
Hofyutal department at
Really appropriated
Omitted
Ordnance department at 7,204.64
Appropriated 28,704.64
Omitted «
Contingencies at
Appropriated
»70,374-70
707,405.43
Omitted
253
I * ifitioned fev?ra! Infianoejj >,/
cruelty of the whites towards the- »riilians,
he also Hated the information of Judp-e
Innis, of the depredations of the Indians:
the single diftrid of Kentucky had tall
from 1783 to 1790, 1500 men, women,
and children, killed and taken, with 2000
horses and other property, amounting to
at least 50,000 dollars, and to these lie
attributed the war in which we were in
volved. The hiftoiy of the settlement of
Kentucky, if recurred to, would afford a
series of causes of Indian h»ltilities. Two
hundred persons had annually fallen facri
fices to the Indians in this district.
He .next proceeded to examine the opi
nion advanced of the superiority of militia
over regular forces in an Indian war. He
recurred to history to disprove the opini
on. So early as the year after Braddock's
defeat, he said, Virginia attempted to pro
tect itfelf agaitift the incurlions of the In
by cfULlHaing a number of pofU «-
long their frontier. The Indians, notwith
ftaading, penetrated the frontier, came
-60 miles within it, and drove the inhabi
tants as far as Winchester. In the war
which succeeded the peace of '62, garri
son», 14 or 15 in number,>were ettablifti
ed, to afford the wi/hed for protection ;
they were all captured by the Indians, 3
or 4 excepted. The Pennsylvania fron
tier had been more than once penetrated
notwitbftanding the resistance of the mili
tia. He next cited the instance of Col.
Bouquet's success against the Indians with
only two regiments of regular troops,
which had even been much weakened by
campaign in the Well-Indies.—
These two regiments marched into the
Indian country. At firlt finding 110 sup
port on the frontier, and when arriving at
Carlisle where he expedted to be aided by
stores, troops, See. he found a general pa
nic had taken poffeflion of the frontier—
the counry of Cumberland, through
which he was to pass deserted—the roads
covcred with distressed families; but here
having got together a few pack horses he
stood in need of, he ilill advanced with
the few troops under his command, and
gave the Indians battle. The combat
lalted from one o'clock till night, was re
newed the next morning, continued thro'
the day, and ended with the total rout &
aeftrudtion of the Indian army. Fie then
stationed his force in a commanding fort,
and so effectually restored peace to the
frontier, and spirit to the inhabitants,
that lliey returned to their homes, which
they had abandoned and lent their assist
ance against the foe the next campaign.
With the militia of Virginia and Penn
sylvania he entered the heart of the ene
mje's country, and forced the Indians to
iubmiffion. He cited another instance ef
the success of Indians against militia. The
engagement between 800 militia, under
Gen Herkemer, and 700 Indians, and
others, where a total overthrow was given
to the militia.
T he firft check the troops of the Unit
ed States niet with during the operation
of the present war fyllem he adverted to,
in the expedition under Gen. £larmar. In
that instance the want of vigour in the
militia is acknowledged by their own
commander ; and as to the expedition un
dei Gen. St. Ciair, the regulars were few
and not to be named when compared with
the number of the militia. The advanced
guaid, in this action, composed entirely
of these, not only run off without firing,
but even threw away their guns and per
haps their coats too, which circumllancc
may account for the appellation of coal
men, given to our men by the Indians.
He next took notice of a late instance,
the engagement between Major Adair,
commanding a party of militia, and some
Indians. He expressed his good opinion
of that officer, but the conduit of his men
he wiftied to bring to view ; and this he
etinced from the commander's own letter
wherein he fays, " that the Indians ob
tained their end, the triumph is theirs,"
and in another place, " I will candidly
70,000
6,000
15,000
9,000
arjoo
40,000
50,000
30,000
437.°3<>-7»
[Whole No. 586.]
dity wjrsated the Mi**
St lSfcffty' , toai ir.oi 'itf'ApSfaft'
than neccffity." *> '? '
Mr. Wadfworth then combated the o
pinion advanced, that Indian expedition
by militia, were less expensive than by re
gular troops ; after mentioning several
iafts to the contrary, he inltanced Gene
ral Clark's western expedition which had
cost, he was not prepared to fay how
much, but immetife Turns. He appealed
to gentlemen who had commanded militia
and continentals in the late war to de
clare which appeared to them the moll
efficient troops,—the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. Parker) who had spoken
in favour of the resolution before the
house, he fakl, in one instance in the late
war, if be recollected right, had no great "
reaion to boast of Ins companions. He
mentioned, as encroafing the expence,
waft of (lores, inseparable from ex
pet'iiio®: with militia, as well as wjlle J
lives. One regiment of militia will de-
Itroy, m the fame space of time more
than a Brigade of regular troops, as it is
impoflible to introduce discipline among
The settlement of Kentucky, Tie said,
which had been protected by militia, had
colt more blood than the whole American
war, he believed. If the number oflives
101 l in that undertaking could be compu
ted it would make the refle6ting shudder.
Something had been said of the tardy
nature of military operations with regular
troops, and it had been remarked, that
an expedition this year had not been effec
ted. He attributed this to the slowness
of the recruiting service, owing to the
clamour raised against the war by those
opposed to the present system, Besides,
the government had been blamed for not
(hewing pacific dispositions towards the
Indians, and had withheld the war, to
procure peace by treaty—a vain hope,
But leveral attempts had been made on
our part to procure peace. The faate of"
Harding, and others, were melanhcoly e
vidences of this truth : But the certainty
was, as it appeared to him, that the In
dial's must be forced to make peace, they
would not be quiet of choice.
A gentleman fiom Virginia had objec
ted to a refpe&able military eftablilhmenr,
because it would produce an increase of
military among the Britilh and Spaniards,
to the North and South of us This was
no rea lon with him, why the United
States Jhould not make themselves respec
table in the eyes of the Indians.
Some years since, they told us of their
confederacy, and to think of no separate
treaties—to keep on our fide of the Ohio.
We now flatter ourselves with peace, be
cause they have told us they will treat
but in what lanjrunge, and by whom dic
tated, I am forbid to tell, the door 9 were
closed when we received it.
1 tie fame gentleman had also mention
ed those enhlting in our feivice as worth
lets cliaradters : the sweepings of the
streets, &c. They appeared to him as
refpedtable, he said, as the generality of
those who turned out in the American
war.
He made some further observations on
the comparative excellence of regulars and
militia, and brought some further instan
ces into view in support of his opinion.
Abuks, jt had been intimated, had
ciept into our army ; no army could be
totally free from abuses, he observed, and
he gave it as his opinion, that the army
of the United States was as free from them
as most, especially when its diltance from
the feat of government was considered.
He concluded by a recapitulation of
the sentiments he had expressed, and
which should influence him to vote againll
the motion. Efpccially as the system had
been adopted after mature conHderation.
I o change it now would argue that
when it was firll adopted, it was done *
with unbecoming halte, or (hew a great
inilability. The Indians would laugh at
us as inconsistent, and might be inducc4
[J« Ifjlpage JFROM THE CONNECTICUT COURAST.
In the Prefi, and will Jpccdily bt pubt'Jhed,
A NEW PARTY DICTIONARY,
CALCULATED for the accommodation
of thole whole plcafurc it is to be dis
pleased with Congress, but who find it diiilcult
to remember, and who,' probably, never knew
all the cau'esof t!?eir displeasure.
The terms are not fully made known. The
Worthy compilers of this work, having the
public good foiely in view, have declared that
the price lhall be set as low as can pollibly be
afforded. It is their desire to extend the cir
culation of this valuable book as generally as
they can. Having a man in their, conftent
pay, and who, in. the ordinary bufii-efs for
which they hired him has prepared fl great
part of materials of this Compilation, they
flatter themselves the expence of authorlhip
and even that of printing will be nearly saved,
so that the purchasers will have the book for
ajpioft nothing. They are undecided whe
ther the types and paper ftiall be American or
French.
The nature of this great literary under
taking will readily appear by perusing
THE PREFACE.
OUR rude Saxon ancestors spoke their mo
ther tongue as their mothers did before them.
It is not to be supposed that the Dictionaries
in common use, tracing-words up to their ety
mology and their queer old falh'oned senses,
can be of use at this day of philosophy, when
the world, in refpeft to its politics, seems as
if there was another fun hung up to light it—
Indeed there is such a glare that common
eves are overpowered—it is dark with ex
ceflive light—All France is groping about in
the dark of too much light, as if every man's
vision were destroyed by the intense adtion of
aborning glass. They need a new Dictiona
ry—for what could they read jit any old book,
that would teach them the present state of
their opinions in regard to religion. In their
Dictionaries, King David is still in good cre
dit—whereas, all the world knows, the Sec
tion PoifTonniere, by a formal decree, has un
king'd him, and unfainted him, and now he
may {fcr.ke hands with Louis XVI. who is in
the fame plight by a vote of the Convention.
To come to our country, the necefiity of
this work is equally manifelt. What would
a found well principled party man do with the
old Saxon Huff about justice and order and
truth : It would stop his mouth before he had
halt* done talking again ft the public debt and
Congress and Mr. Adams and his Book. As
our language and ideas change, so should the
Di&iopary. Now this Di&ionary* would serve
to fix both language and ideas. It would ast
like a strong pickle on the mod periftiable of
fal of the Gazettes, and keep it over the fea
fon—lt would make every inflamatory pa
ragraph common ftock—(o that the effoft
would be an union of fentiinent and force.
The man in Georgia and he in New-Hamp
fliire by reading the Axioms gathered from
the National Gazette, might help each other
in their anger. Each would take the fame
text and vouch the fame proofs.
The urgent occasion for this work is appa
rent from the torpid ftnte of men's minds.
They scarcely think at all, and the govern
ment does as it chufes. When they do think
there is no end to their deviations from the
new political truth, notwithstanding the pains
that the virtuous writers against Congress
have taken to enlighten tbeni. There is no
manner of doubt these excellent friends to
republican Simplicity and virtue have had
influences from Monf. Petion, the
fountain head. It is evident, if oaths are to
be regarded, that this influence is neither di
rest nor indirect. But some Sylph or Gnome,
who is doubtless a good Anti, whiSpers it to
the fate foretelling oracle, the National Ga
aettb From whence,-in ftreanis pure and
finOffking, like the drain from a whifkv dis
tillery, it is conveyed to the reservoirs efta-
blifhed ill every part of the country. The
plants of satire and some of the flowers of
rhetoric fpruig up where it flows. The para
graphs againlt the laws of Conjjrefs, against
the Vice-Prefidant and the Secretary of the
Treasury, are (mart enough to raise blisters.
Their writers have not wanted zeal, thev
have not spared paper nor confidence—for re-
" publican virtue they fay, smiles on their la
bours. While truthlafted and would answer,
* they fired it off. But ammunition failing,
they loaded their pieces with what they could.
Noinijjrefiion, however, is made on the peo
ple. They have piped, but the people will
not dance. Newspaper accounts of oppreflion
and coAnptioti and conspiracies against liber
• ty, cannot stir citizcrs who arc growing rich
and live contented. Time and opportunity
. happen to sill men. What will not do now
may Succeed another time. Let the means
be prepared and kept ready. I; there no way
to prefei ve the fugitive and evanescent lies
of the day for future commotion? There is
—the party Dift onary. It wi 1 prove an ar
senal of warlike Stores, from which the NewS
paper militia rpay be armed and accoutred—
let the Scattered paragraphs be arranged in
alphabetical order. A man's Jiepd cannot
lioid vvery thing—it will get full, ard then it
will receive no more, except by crowding nut
some of it's former contents.
By ihe h< tp of ihis Dictionary, you may turn
at once to the woid and find the thin;; you lock
#or, though ever.fa hard puffed, you lay
youi finger an :hc veiy Ipou
For inltancj, in such a j)i£lionary, under the
•word Dckt vou might read
" Tins is a cuifid word. It was not I'pokeu
by our fiiil parents in I'aiadife ; nor had it got
a currency till a little nine bclote the flood,
"i iieu the Victory of those timet tells us the peo
ple became intolerably corrupt, becj'ufe they got
i.no del t. The very jews were so (potted and
•UleuL'4, that nothing l-'is than the water of
Noah's ffood, could wash them to 'he decree* of
pui uy ihat belongs to them at this day. That
devilish woid, alter having ruined the world
once aliead\, remained unknown in Ameiica,
till some Scotchmen carrcd it into Vi»g;nia.
The rffefts have been dreadful indeed—such is
the foicc of the woid Debt 01 Scotchman, that
on merely pionouncing cither, the peace of fa
milies has been diflurbed, Coach whe-ls have
run off. and the Courts of law have flood still.
A hi.l was leponed to Congref*., regulating p»o
---ceftef in the National Couns, and providing that
executions for debts should be falikfied in lilver
or golo. The word, Debt, as if ink had been
flied on the hill, obliterated the words filler and
gold) so that thofc words do not appear in the
act. Oil •he whole, there : s no greater enemy
ol liberty, than Debt. It disturbs its enjoyment
before it t;«kes away its life, which it is
fu'r lo do iti the end.
The word public Debt % is followed by a differ
tat'On too long to he quoted. The reader must
con'ult the woik iifelf, where he will Mbd the
fubjtft most deleftably treated. It ij> proposed
to give some fine plates, one in particular, repre
lenting a Speculator broiling a soldier and kind
ling the fire wiih the foldtcrs crutches and wood
en leg. The compiler, if the expence of the
plaies (hould not exceed his funds, will give in
a widow or two.
The word Fxc*fe is copiously treated. The
people of (he New-F.ngland Slates, lays the Dic
tionary, have fhrwo a very alarming irtdifterence
to the evU-tendency of this act. Having been
long accustomed to (late excifcs, they abfurdlv
t'uft to their c*perience of the nature of them.
This, however, is a niiferable otejudice. For
what fignifies vulgar experience ? It only makes
ignorance obstinate and unteachable, as this very
cafe has shewn. Docs expeiience teach agrono
my ? It affirms ihat the earth stands still and
the fun turns round it—having caught it in one
fib, shall we believe any thing it may tell us.
Philo ophcrs, who would govern a nalion, ac
cording to the tights of man, found their <heory
on a better basis. They eftablifti firft principles,
and then the whole work of politics goes on
fcientifically. An eXcife. fays philofoihy, is
the abhorrence of all free Rates. An exc\fe,fa> s
experience, is not the abhoirence of all free
ftatcs. Hold your tongue, fays the former, pe
nalties and forfeitures take away wen's rights—
they are fcgainft liberty. I do not remember
any law, experience mutters, that gives-people
liberty to break it. Oaths corrupt morals—
Government requires oaths, thcrefoie Gov(rn
ment corrupts morals — Hudibras a flu res us that,
He who makes the oath breaks it.
Net he who for convenience takes it.
Theexcife ruins the farmers, witness the in
creased price of grain, and the new distilleries of
spirit, which are setting up in all pails of the
country.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
ODE TO INNOCENCE.
SWEET Innocence, the Child of peace !
Companion.<if the infant breast,
Fond parent of domestic e.afc.
And tranquil reft,
Sav. in the solitary cell
Dost thou with piety reGde,
Far from the Con* of vice, who dwell
, With poiqp and piidfc ?
There dost thou smooth the brow of care
Beam hope serene ob virtuf's woes,
And lull the tranfporUot despair
To foft repose ?
Dost thou in some feqoefterld grove,
With rural icndrrnefs retire,.
There fan the fpaiks ot infant love .
And pure deftre ? :
Or with the nymphs in jocund play,. '
Hide from the (wains arfnid the b'oftets ]
Or blooming laifes stray ■ . '•
To cufi sweet flowers ? j
Where, lovely stranger haft thou fled,
Since weeping Eden saw thee rove,
Then pensive beauty droop'd her head
And left the grove.
Return my once beloved gucft
Bring thy (air friend Content with thee,
Bring back the happy hours thai blest
My iuiancy. -
Philadelphia, Jan. sth, 1793.
Foreign Affairs.
Sunday -night lafl the November Packet arrived at
New-York Falmouth. This vejjel brings
European Intelligence to the 2cth oj November.
BRUSSELS, November 9.
YOU must have observed in my last, that
the affairs of this country were taking a
very different turn from what had been ex
pected. The event of Tuesday last is too
great a proof of this. The French attacked,
on that day, the Austrian army near Mons,
with so much impetuosity, that in the a&ion,
which lasted from 8 in the morning till 4
o'clock in the afternoon, the whole Austrian
army was completely routed, and retreated
to Caftiau, a league beyond Mons. At 6in
the evening, Dumourier tent a trumpeter to
offer the place to capitulate.
The capitulation was acccpted, and the
French took potTelfion of Mons on'NV'edne/day
at 12 o'clock at noon. As Toon as the fujfcri
ority of the French army was known, orders
were sent to the troops in Flanders to fall
hack upon Mons, and succours were sent for
to Prince Hofienloe's army. All thele suc
cours, united, form still an army of 50,000
men, which is at present posted at Braine le
Compt and Nivel'es, whilll the head of the
French army is already at Soignies. It is as
sured that the capitulation was signed on the
7th by General Dumouiier's adjutant and
Gen. Beaulieu, who had remained in the city
with 2 battalions.
The capitulation fiat?*, " That the Aus
trian troops fliall have evacuated the Belgic
254
Provinces before v the 15th of this montl , ex
cept the provinces ot Luxembourg, Limberg,
and GuelderJacd." Dumourier has planted
the tree of liberty in Mons, and gibbets ior
thole who shall manifefl a spirit of party, or
fliall disturb the public tranquility. This
ft rift police fliould tianquilize the inhabitants
of the other cities; that, however, is not the
cafe here, for since the day before yciierday,
is in the greatcft agitation and alarm.
Every body is gerting away, and tho the
Duke of Saxe and the Archduke Charles a e
liil 1 in tJ»e army, the Archduchess fat off yef
terdav, fonie fay for Bonne, others lav f<»i the
Hague. The Plenipotentiary Miniiter, as
weil as all the members ot the government,
are also gone to Rutemonde »n Guelderland.
In fliort, it a general breaking up. The
army of Bourbon, which lias fled troin the en
virons, from Namur, arrived last night at the
gates of this city, but entrance was rciufed
them.
The number of the fugitives to Holland
had already filled the city of Antwerp, where
a number of emigrants, who could not procure
lodgings, attempted, {word in hand, to force
the inhabitants to lodge them, on which the
inhabitants fell upon them and their baggage,
which they plundered.
Domestic Articles.
CkARLESTON, (S. C.) Novembers?,
A most important discovery, to the great benefit
. L. /-• _ : - I - - : -1
of the Commercial woild
A gentleman of this state, by way of experi
ment, had a Palmetto Tice fa wed into fhcathing
boards ; about twelve months past, he had a
fmallveflel Hieathcd with it and let her run the
whole.summer without once gravirtg or clean
ing, and on examination, found her bottom as
found 3'd untouched (vv the firll day
the was fhcathrd. He hod also funk a plank, of
the fame, which lay under water for 6 months ;
on taking it up, it was riot only perfectly found,
but not even touchcd by worms, and became
as hard as oak. It is well known, that fiom
experience of near a century part all our wharves
in this state have been built with logs of Palmet
to, and have been found fouud after twenty or
thirty years.
Dc. 4. This day week, 65 members of the
Houfc of Reprefcntatives met in the state house
at Columbia, and proceeded to business.
R O S T ON, December 26.
The unanimity in lo many refpe&able states,
in favor of the re-ele£lion of Mr. Adams, fnews
in what estimation the fcribbJeis against him
are held bv the people. For three years pill,
foirie'of our papers have teemed with repeated
and re-rcpeated denunciations ot his politics
and his condu&. The meanness of private ati
e dote, the quibbling of law—craft, and the un
biulhing insinuations of falfliood, have, in rota
tion, been employed as weapons agninlt him —
To the aid of tnefc, industry has been called in ;
and while a D sat the feat ot government
has spread hrs malevolence* in every direction,
an £—I—s has mounted his Rofwante, and has
alfailed every quarter to prevent his re-ele&ioti,
by endeavouring to injure his reputation. To
the sober sense of the people the appeal has been
made— and they have given their verdi£t. They
have emphatically said to
" Envy be dumb —and Malice Ihut your mouth,
Or squirt your venom on the Frebean Chore."—
We may, therefore, for a time, expert a cefia
tion ot the obloquy, and the people be tfifreby
relieved from the insult of wtitings whiwh'dif.
play nothing bnl. the malevolence of thefr au
thors.
A writer in the 11 Courier Politique de I'Uni
vers" of Monday, concludes some observations
on the state of affairs in France, with these lines
—«« We can only fay, that whatever may be the
issue ol flie war, it is our most ardent w;(h that
France may adopt the bafts of the English Con
ilitntion—(hat Constitution which Tacitus
considered as bordering so near to perfection as
to be impra&icable, and which the pen-m'an of
the Book of Ecclefiafles, fecms to have defcribea
in that emblematical vcrfe. li And if one pre
vail againjl him, two /hall uithjland him ; and a
threejold. cord is not quickly broken.*'
December 31.
Saturday arrived here ship Mai y, Capt. John
lon, in 52 days fiom London—The following
is extracted from the Londou Gazetteer of Oc-
B. W.
f
tober 23.
No communications were yefteiday received
from Paiis, but the Bruflells Gazette, of the ißih
inft.ariived ; and the following articles, relative
to the affdiis of France, are extruded from it.
Mayence, OQ. 11.
Our garrison is icinforced every day, by Im
perial tioops, which defile through Francoma.
We expe£l, the day after to-morrow, a consi
derable body of Huflais from Efterhazy, which
will be followed, next week, by fdilfeici>£ divi
lions of infantry, of the regiments of Schroeder,
Devins, Mdufr< dine, Kinlky, and by a gieac
number of artillery men.
F« A NKFORT, Oft. 12.
On Saturday last, two battalions and two
squadrons of the Prince of Helfe Darniftadt, fol
lowed by 12 field-pieces and 4 howitzerr, with
a great quantity of ammunition, passed through
this place. A new division of ilie troops of the
Prince of Hfffe Caflel directs its route by the en
virons of Hansu.
We have this day received the intereftin.'
news, that the French evacuated, yellerriay as.
ternoon, the town and the environs of Spire, re
tiring to Landau. While they occupied tins
principality, the Ptince Bijhvp was at Pommr.r
feld, a country feat of the Prince Bifliop of Barn
berg.
Two hundred Buffers of Eflei'iazy patted yes
terday, through this place, ftom Bohemia ;
they continued their march for Mayence, where
they wait lor further orders.
Wal court, Oft.
This (own on tie iiihinit. by
two Thouland five hundred mc.i from the garri
son ol rhil:;pcvil]c, who carried av.ay all the
money, plate, coppcr, linen, and provilion,
which ihty could find.
v n 4 Oft.
Yeftcrday mmn.ng, Mrly. an „
palled through heiesuiug.tiuiglw 10 Vi .
he left u» certain intelligence, that a r-toci
had been agieed on between the Combine A,,
ni-.es and that <$f France, con(|>rmaWy t-, »h:ch
the two armies were to reiniia at ihe dilfjnceof
eight leagues from each other,'and 10 t Je d 1
hoftil tieson the frontier*. AU the tf.mL
were on matcli, 011 both ftde»(we»c to hail k ,.„
they wtrc. " w
A Coogu-fs wa o to l-e hilu at l,Hj<o^>ur s h to
whtebthe ivatioiui Ct>i*vVi»Mor\ of Fiance %«sto
: fend*<lepmaiion iTn. aim * m
■ _-ed, A pail »bir.li !„,ni c d the
blockade of Thionvill, h.ive atrtariy re'trcd —-
3000 of liiejt- troops, owki" ihc coi-ininid of
. CoU'ii de Willis, arrived the ri»y br'cn yrftcr-'
. S»<bour(!, near Ilohcn.
■- loe is advancing Bouo
Mtmz : we txpect 4000 n»oic by wa:er; 10,000
men from thi ai my til Bnlcaw, are advai.sing ty
very 'aptcf marches. '
.t . '
[The following contains the best conne&cd
account of the causes which led tothe retreat
of the Combined armies, we have Jcei .j
PORTLAND, December 25.
Capt. Titcomb, in ;c£ Ihip Aiadr.e, arriv
ed here 011 Saturday last, from Liverpool,
which place he left the 2oth if October. J>j( t
before Capt. Titcomb failed. Fie ';.w and con
versed with the noted Col. Tarlton, who
was then direftiy from the Duke of Brunf
wick's army. The account given t>v the Col.
was as follows : That the French General,
Dumourier, had taken poiTeffion front of the
Duke of Brunfwick—That he had polled the
other two French arj» ies, one on the right,
and the other on the left of the Duke. f>u
mourier gave way, and retreated "before the
enemy, (carrying with him the people of the
country, together with all tine* livp ijtock and
all their provisions) till he had drawn the
Doke's army into Champagne. .Here du
mourier made a Itand, and proposed a truce.
Mean while, the two armies on the right and
left of the Duke, were marching towards his
rear; and in their progress, were, like Du
mourier, either taking or caufmg
to be removed, all the live ftoi k, provilioa
and forage in the country. It was the time
of the vintage, and the provi lions of the Auf
trians and Prulfians falling lhoi t, they had
recourse to the grapes which abound in that
country. The immediate consequence ot
which was a deadly flux among the troops.
In this lituation, the Duke readily agreed to
Dumourier's proportion of a truce. This
was jufl as the latter would have had it. An
interview took place betwixt tie Generals,
in which Dumourier, after a dallying confe
rence of several days, informed rhe Duke that
he could do nothing decifivc till he had writ
ten to, and heard from the National Conven
tion. During this time, however. theFrenct
armies were improving every moment. Thai
of Dumourier had taken such portions as ren
dered it abfolutelv impregnable. Those on
the right and left were progrelling toward?
the Duke's rear, and as they Svent,fwept witl
them every article of provilion, whether foi
man or beast.—Aster a truce of five or fix
days, and when the Auflrians and Pru<rian«
Vere reduced to the u tin nit dift'efs, foine 01
them starving to death, others dying 0:
the bloody flux, Dumourierpietended to grow
difiatisfied, and said he would break the tract
up ! The Duke altonifhed and confounded
proposed to continue it ; and it was at this
time, probably, that he made tiie concefiions
and adopted the kind and conciliating Jan.
guage which has been mentioned.—Dumou
rier, however, said " NO—he had continuec
the truce long enough—now he mu ft fight"—
A truce betwixt two parties is a thing that i:
well enough, while both t.'ill to it, bu!
when one of them dijagreci, it will always hap
pen that the other must either fight or rui
away. This was precifelv the Duke's fltua
tic:i ; and he chose to run away. By thi:
time, however, General Kellerman had gainet
his rear ; and although his army was not o:
fufficient force compleatJy toftoptiie progref
of the Duke, it was llilleqval to the purpo e
for which it was intended, viz.—to retail
and harrafs him ; and itrip the country of e
very kind of provilion. So that famine ant
desolation were spread on the right, the left
and in the front of the Duke and his retreat
ing army ; disease and death iu the centre .
and in the rear was Dumourier and the sword
The retreat was as rapid as it could he mad«
with an army of lick, disheartened and dyiilj
soldiers—numbers «;f whom were left behind
as also their baggage, artillery and militar;
{lores, in immenle quantities.—Nothing was
laid in the Duke's army at this time, on tin
fubjeft of Marijcjlos ; and if he is hurried 01
at this rate, he may not have time to ilfu<
another till he gets "fairly out of the Frenc!
territories—or if he should, it is poflible tiia
Dumourier might not ft op to read them.
HARTFORD, December 31;
A correspondent informs us, that a tew week
since, his Excellency Governor Hancock, 1
conformity to the humane difpofiiion of il
heart, and in the true fpuit of Jibcrty and cqt
lity, gave a BALL, in l is own house, to the t
.Negroes o'ttoc town of Bolton.
PRICE OF STOCKS,
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Full [hares Bank IJ. S.
I
(l 3"" PERSONS (it a dijlance from this y
rvifh to Jubfcribe for this Gazette, arc i"Jorj
ihatiht condition ms advancing fix months ju-bfft
■tion. or making provifton for its being paid hi
muji be compiled with* utherwrje the papers cants
forwarded—The Editor hctvivg beenfnerefy n
fay the poflugt of Letter the orders by
jor tU Cuzitlty ma\ It:fail turn jree cj that end
ao/6
"(3
itjg
35 per emu prc^>
CONGRESS.
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES.
Saturday, January 5.
The petition of William Seymour was read,
Hating that he had been severely wounded in the
attack of Fort Grifvvold; praying the benefit of
a pension. Referred co a feledt committee, con
fining of Mr. Wadfworth, Mr. Key, and Mr.
Griffin.
The petition of sundry persons, merchants of
the city of Hudson, was read ; praying that the
port of said city may be made a port of entry,
as well as of delivery. Referred to the Secreta
ry of the Treafbry.
The petition of Gabriel Allen, was read; pray
ing the renewal of two loft certificates spo dol
lars each. Referred to the committee of the
•whole House, on the report of the Secretary of
the Treasury on that fubjed.
The petition of Nicholas Vrigl . nd, was read ;
praying the renewal of a loft certificate. Re
ferred as above.
The petition of Jonas Stevens, was read; pray
ing compensation for services, and losses during
the late war. Referred to the Secretary of War.
A report of the Secretary of theTrealury, on
the memorial of Timothy De Mombrun, was
read; which was against the prayer of th* peti
tion. It was then voted, that the petitioner have
leave to withdraw his petition and papers.
A bill to provide for the widows and orphans
of certain persons who were killed by the Indi
ans under the fanition of flags of truce, was
brought in engrossed, read the third time and
pal Ted.
In committee of the whole, on the resolution
for reducing the military eftablilhment
of the United State .
A long debate ensued, which ended in a mo
tion to amend the original resolution, so as to
read thus—
RgTolved, That a committee be appointed to
bring in a bill to reduee the military establish
ment of the United States, to regi
ments, to consist of the men who are now in
service, or which may be recruited before the
day of next, &c.
This being put, was negatived— 32 to 24. —
The question then was on the original resolu
tion, as moved by Mr. Steele; which being put,
«t was negatived, 21 members only riling in fa
vor of it. The committee then rose, and the
chairman repqrted accordingly. The report was
laid on the table, and the House adjourned.
M'O VDA Y, January 7
Mr. Livermore of the committee appoint
ed fo>* the purpose, reported a bill to repeal
pant of a resolution of Congress of Airlift,
1788, refpe&ing the inhabitants of Pod St.
Vincennes—read twice, and committed for
to-morrow.
A new appropriation hill, making provision
for the support "of government for the year
*793» reported, bp the Tele# committee,
to w ioin the former bill was recommitted.—
It was twice read, taken up in committee of
the whole—Mr. Sedpwick in the chair-—re
ported without amendment, and laid on the
table tili to-morrow.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to
regulate claim l ; to invalid pensions.—Mr.
Dayton in the Chair.—The motion of Vena
hie for invaldating the p oceedings of the
judge*;, pir fnant to the law parted last feifion,
was difcufled. Mr. Giles called for the read
ing of all the representations relative to the
Jaw, received from the judges the last winter.
A lengthy debate ensued on this motion, in
which the conftrudtion put on the above law
by the judges, wai critically di cuffed till af
ter three o'clock. The committee aroe
without taking a vote, and the chairman re
ported progress.—Adjourned.
Erratum—in our lafl, w\ Air. Steele's Speech, id
to!. Bt</ hnefrom the bottom, for il Jormed , \ read
farmed.
Phi
adelphia, Jan. 9.
This dav, woarhrr permitting, M. Blancharrl
takrs his flight ; The balloon we are allured
will rife precisely at 10 o'clock. «
> The accounts from London by the Packet
further ft^te—That the hopes of harmony
between tbeftates of Brabant nrrdthe Auftvian
government, ftera to have vaniftied.—On the
S7tb October the King of Pruflia arrived at
Luxemburg!) on his way to Berlin.—Great
tumult*'it is said prevail in Holland.—The
frepsjj government lately contracted with
Mr. Atkjnfoo ofYorkfliire for 100,0001. worth
of coatfc woollens for the use of the French
array {which sum was artuallv paid previous
to the Mivery of'the goods.—lt appears that
the French tronps'met with a check at Hanau,
fiom a body of- 4000 Hessians. Gen. Cuftine,
informed of tliis reverse, Tent to' Frankfort on
the'Jpili Oftober,foT a reinforcement to make
a fecood attack.
• A Britiih Admiral in the port of Genoa,
fired feyeial broad fides into a French Ihip for
not fainting the Britiih fqtiadron on the cele
bration of the Britiih King's acceflion.
It appears that General Cofiine has taken
Frankfort on the Main, and irapofed a con
tribution on of two millions of flo
r,ns—he has alio taken the crown, jceptre,
»nd regalia, tiled at the coronation of the
Etfiperors of Germany.
A report from a committee on the trial of
the Kipg of France, concludes with a number
of articles, among other*—That Louis XVI.
can he tric<*—That he shall 4e tried by the
National Convention—A dettil of his crimes
to be made out, printed and publilhed The
day for the trial n not fixed. As to Maria
Antonietta, the committee fay, the Queens of
France have always been liable to trial for
t*«i» crimes.—General Montefquiou has beeit
Mcnfed of peculation— one art'de of the ac
fetion is, (bat he charged the nation 13 liv.
for flioss, for which he paid only four and an
Cuftine has denounced Gen. Kel
lerman to the National Aiibmbly.—Admiral
1 ragngf," commander of a French fleet, has
taken, plundered and burnt Onaglia—this is
a sea-port on the Mediterranean, about 70
inifes from Genoa. This severity was bro't
on the place b/ the treachery of some pea
sants.
M. Dumourier has ftgnified a wish to the Na
tional Convention to retire ; Ghent, Namur
and 3ru»Tels are in poficfiion of ibe French—•
General Dumourier entered t'he lalt a: the head
of a-numerous army.
M. Nectar has published a long pleading in
favor of Louis XVJ. A battalion has set out
from Dunkirk to lake poifeflion of Oitend,agree
able to ari invitation of the magilirates of that
city—The Regent of Sweden has acknowledged
the Republic of France.--300,000 livres of the
contribution levied on Spins had been received
by the Nat ional Convention. — Gen. IXumonrier
has urged the giving general Valence the title of
Commander in chief of the Ardennes.
Yesterday the following gentlemen were
chosen, by the Stockholders, Dire&ors of the
Bank of the United States:
Thomas Willing, "Samuel Breck,
Thomas Fitzfimons, William Smith,
Tristram Dal ton, Samuel Johnfton,
Henry Nichols, James Watson,
James M'Clurg, Joseph Ball,
John Watts, I'aac Wharton,
Nicholas Low, James C. Fiflier, y
Andrew Craigie, William Bingham, j
Herman Leßoy, Joseph Anthony, ' J
James Davenport, Archibald M'Galt, ' :
George Cabot, Ifi ael Whelen,
Rufus Kin?, Robert Smith,'
John Lawrance,
At a general meeting of the Members of '
the German Society, on the i6thult. ?.t theJ
Lutheran 'Vheol hunfe ill thKcitv, tile tinnuaf
election of their officers was and the sos- |
lowing gentlemen were duly chosen : id
Prelident—Freder'ck A. Muhlenberg.
Vice-President—Lewis Farmer.
Treasurer—John Steinmetz.
Secretaries—Andrew Geyer and Leonard
Keehm ie.
Solicitor—Henry Kammerer
Overseers —'Conrad Haas, William Leeh
man, Christopher Kucher, John Stock, Frede
rick Fravly, Peter Ozeas.
General WM Moultrie U eledied Governor
of the {late of South-Carolina.
The names of the Wabafli Indians latelv
arrived in this city, on a viilt to thePrefident
of the United States, are as follow: Great
Joseph—Baptist du Quon, and his squaw Ala
nonfoqua Thomas—-Nancopeta, or red
Trowfers—Swecana, or Three Legs^—Gomoo
—A soldier and his squaw Wapetfonequa—Le
Petit Cafto, or Little Beaver-—Wapeteia, or
Little A—e—Wilkeohn, or painted face—
Wawwecefeto, or circle—Le,Petit Beaflie,
or Little Elk—Hawpautapeaugh, or llifing,
Man—£)uoquouquerfeaa,or the Chafer—Mcu
ecoueyod, or Aquiline Nofe—Monekarav, a
squaw, unmarried—with 3 interpreters.
COMMUNICATIONS.
We have men who go round and round like
mill-horse? in the drudgery of defaming the
officers of government. They repeat over
and over again the fame humdrum tales of
vice and folly, which they tax every body
with but their own angelic fa&ion. It is in
vain to read to this party the precept—
44 Thou fhalt not bear falfe witness against
thy neighbor," because the old book which
records this honest and gotod-natured advice
is out of crsdit with thetfe profane faints,
these men of new inspiration, who set about
reforming us out of oui old principles.
There are certain things often tranfifted
by collaftive bodies, which no individual of
them will juftify or defend.
We may very fafely confer honor on imagi.
vary heroes, because among such there is 110
comparison of merits.
To praise a man, because we suppose he
thinks as we do, is nothing less than an indi
rect compliment to ouifelves.
To clog our attachment to the governmeat
which we have ourselves eftablithed, with
conditions founded on arbitrary conftruftions,
is, to fay the least, cold-hearted patriotism.
To be governed by- principles abftracied
from men, is an idea tooevanelcent for com
mon use—To be governed by men, without
regard to principles, is passive obedience.
It is a very pleaflet thing to feel superior
to all the reft of mankind.
Every class of citizens, in supporting the
community, support themselves. If by their
utmost exertions in their various vocations,a
bare competency only can be obtained, what
would be their fate, (hould they employ one
half theii time in political (übje^ts.
Suspicion is the virtue of bale minds—those
who have no honesty themselves, are <;om
monlv the firft to cry out riT uc—iltaking kriijf
the old proverb.
The principles suited to one period, will
not he found adapted to another—if they will
apply on all octafions, the work ot'deftruftion
will never be fnilhed.
The public liberty is to be guarded by the
vigilance of the people—but an ignorant peo
ple will ne\ er be active from principle—their
vigilance therefore will always be directed by
individuals who may have an infereft in be
traying the liberties and the government of a
country. The truth is the people asfiuh,
cannot always watch ; but afford to every in
dividual the means of inftruflion, and they
will invariably chufe their be ft friends for
their rulers and watchmen.
255
Our faftlon have'bson four years inventing
toul names and foul suspicions against the
constitution. They have (elected thefweeteft
nowers of Grub-street to adoin their ejfavs
and paragraphs. The plan ot our government
>" a Icheme of defpotiifn. Too much power
■s given, and that is unchecked and arbitrar- ■
and when they speak of the officers of the go
vernment, they are to he fufpei'ted and hated.'
The bufmefs is bad, and the agents areworic
Yet these pure and ftnbbornly virtuous men
in the worst of times, tlieie tyranny haters
finding that open attacks on the government
avail nothing, condescend to ate a little Inpo.
crify. They tell us they are federal. Hatred
is turned into love and "admiration. Nay,
they love the conftitufion so wo]],, they fufpeit
■its old fiends—they would not trust its mo
ther to iuckle it. In ITiort, no-body wilt do
but thole who lought its life, to rock and guard
its cradle. But the people too well remem
ber their enmity to the child of our nation's
hopes, to be deluded by their arts. The hy
pocrisy of pnetending to be federal, is labor
loff—for they threaten while they would coax,
and their former hatred is fti.l mingled witli
their new fondnefs.
Our government has been moulded into or
der with great care, and still more good for
tune. The people have all the fruits of a
revolution in favor of liberty, without having
shed any blood. That very order is now al
ledged as an offence of our government—all
the good it has done, is niade a cause of jea-
Imi.'y, and a rcr.fon for treading backward.
are magnified, little prejudices are
WJdrefled as if they were firft principles, and
every exertion is made to degrade the autho
rity of the laws and the reputation of tfee
IMiblic officers. Good men,, the natural fiip
f.Tportiers of virtue, liberty and government,
j iloeK-on carelefslv, and fay it is not two-pence
how these petty quaJ iels may eqd.
'■■!'i'tiey are ■worthief's fellows-who make them,
»*nd nobody minds what they fay.—Granted.
. But they Ihould mark well that our mobbo
crat* infill upon the faying A, becaule thev
' fewefee 6, mud: be said afterward — Z and &
come next—for when government begins to
* slide down, its firft motion is scarcely to be
perceived. iMen are not alarmed till the mo
tion is too rapid to be refilled. Let any ob
serving man notice the extreme zeal and .in
dustry with Which the meereft fluff is feriov.fly
held up as republicanrfm in onr Gazettes, he
will be Convinced that these incendiaries have
great points in view, which they tnean to
carry by making a hue and cry about little
ones.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse for break
ing it. But it is beyond que ft ion a cause of
its being broken. Seveu-eighths of the
wretches who fuffer punishment for crimes,
are destitute of learning. A tyrant is fr.id to
have hung up his Jaws in fmail letters, and on
a high poll-, so that the people could not read
them. He is justly execrated for thus catch
ing innocent tranfgreiiors in a trap. But
what shall be laid of the neglect of those legis
lators who Puffer the citizens to remain so un
provided of comrrton school advantages, that
if the laws were written in large letters, and
not hung on a high post, but on a level with
their eyes, they would not be able to read
them. At least this is the cafe in regard to
thousands of our citizens. Is it not a fiiame
in a free country ! With refpeft to Tuch vic
tims of ignorance, it may be truly said, our
criminal flatutes are firft made known at the
wbipping-poft, and the knowledge they get of I
their nature is written on their backs.
There can be no true liberty without good laws ; i\o
good laws without firm government ; no firm go
vernment without public conjidence : no public confi
dence without difmtercftediiHs in tfroje ivho ;
no security jor this virtue but in the watchiuliiefs
°! thoje who are governed. The true friend• there
fore of a free a t well as [firm government will'neper
attempt to brand a scrutiny into abuses with the
names oj faflion or anarch v.
ro lard the proceedings of the government with
indifctimina?e and exaggeratedpraifc is not the
way to serve the government. Doubts and fujpicionx
are bred by the over-eager ne ft to prevent them.
Conhdering the difficulty in all governments of pre
venting the / rust es oj the public interefls from carv
ing out fepatute late nt interefti for themselves, a
pu,hhc dtbt and such an inflitution as the Bank of
the United States, which facilitate the prattice, are
\f° J (lr ■ S rf,,t public evils.— And as the evil in
the cafe of the Bank is vaflly increased by the members
thereof, being in the government —/o, quere in the
other taje whether the secrecy of the Book of tranf
fersis vot a greater evil than good, by concealing
who are a-nd whe are not flockkolders. The people
ought to know the particular inter efts of theft they
trufl, in order to fee that they enough harmonize
with their own, and to judge better of the covdutt of
the trujlecs. According to the nrcfent rules of of
fice, d member of Congrrf ?,ia \ hold millions of paper
and his confiituents /übpofe, when he is in fatt voting
{or himlc'f./WAc is voting accord ng to his judgment
Jot the inter eft oj the farmers, mcicnanu or manu
facturers.
Although the public judgment has fully condemned
t}te dotirine that public debts are pi.biic blessings, the
preachers of itfhew theyJ ill Adhere to it by ajcibing
a'! the blessings u e enjoy to the funding fflem. —
7 hey rnuji think very contempt'uoujly of American
difcernv.ent, to Juppofe it ur/perceived that this is
the fame creed turned irto different language. If
the three'million of dollars ~p:,t irto the pockets of
the lax-gatherers and credit' rs (the laflpartly jo
feigners) were to remain in the hands of our «ar-%
me?s, merchants and mechanics, people of com
■men ferfe, iviit not be eafly persuaded that the coun
try would be less rich and flour ifiling. The men
therefor/ who evj«y the rmmenfe wraith so cheaply
gained cut of the public fytiems fl.ould give over
tvfuUmg the under fundings of tho/e who bear the
burden. 'Jhey fl.ould be content with faxing, we
agree that public debts and funding fferns are
Puttie evih, e,fye:ian\ in Rej/u'-Ha a',;,-.'.i c» ! 't it
watch on alljid-s agtinjl the avenue* ojmjuUion ;
but it would be a greater evil not to puy put> iU . uc t,
or )\ut to execute laus in fc rce jor thai purprfc.
It ;s vcfily imprudent in the g rent we'ihhs cert'ft
cdlc twtiUrs to war Mum t'a a fubi'u d.hi H £
Mtfjixg. urid that the }'iv>i v g f\fl rni , ,
of o*r pTiJj>erit\ ; buavfr it niu, tenfl Pzviie / >
count for U ohuittiatn idea. Av /'"/•/,, y
conjc,u^ el s c; :U ,• " 7 "'-
rceulth tmhr.n t/,n-, it,,,
//W< /<> the mot. ix of , /
n£Ji?J MeTrE **' ■> v'm v.
I Wfcfrequentmjfrej. .-feni-ation. nitbe ;>., -
. ce<ftl .'"".* Congrfc'-i, art. more I! :.n (uffi
cient to iour the minih of t'e brfr "rf-tpolbd
.»-tte-, ovW-i an, Id to
the obftrvari",, at tfcistlme, bv a publication
hi Mr. Frcpe.m , ?pap:.T ..f laf> Saturday, ,e
---lative to numbers of U.nprefs, bei„ ; . also
members of the <b ink j»f the United S'aten
, , w " ter «ay be an I, one ft republican, but
I'e has deipotfttrated him-eifa very Kio-i-.t
or inattentive one—lt i, fijficient to ffate r, r
facr, as a full and fatisfafioly anhver to every
noneft mind—The public Owe to t c bank
two million of doifcrs, for which they pay 11*
per cent imere.'t—Bv accident there are
530,°0::> dollars in the treasury, which cannot
>e immediately diipoifcd of as appropriated,
and therefore is lodged for fafe keeping in the
ban*, who Rave the use of if, as they have of
all other deposits, till drawn out in the ulual
manner—The purport of the bill was to nay
this money, with orhers to the bank, and
t lerebv ftoti iji inte/eft of 6 per cent, and
save to n,i,oh to the public treasury. For thi s
bill tjiegentVihen v<-ted-, who arc r.Ow chavr.
Ed with partiality f.j - tfe!r rvrn p ivate in
terei}. Had thev voted in the negative,what
would this honest republican have Paid, whs ,i
the bank wa, receiving 6 per cent f; om G.n-
Kiefs. stnd 6 per cent more from uifcoanti,
msde on the credit of it.—A .new loan, to re
p.ace these monies, is propo'ed to be iradr,
not exceeding 5 per cent, bv which means,
one per cent at lead will be Paved, (belidei
the o per cent till the lean is made) amount
ing to 20,000 dollars per annum,but this seems
to ne n matter of fniall concern to this honclt
repuohcan. FAIR FLAY.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
•__ P? 11 A, Jttgfiry f t sjgg.
XJOI ICE is hereby givro,- thai there will be
IK paid at the Bank, alter the 17th iiilkm, to
the Stockholders or iberr Reprefentnivrs duly
authorized, the following Turns, being the Divi
dend deplartd for the last fix months; viz.
For each share hrarir.jr dividend from the jft
of July, Sixteen. Dollar's.
For each (hare bearing dividend from the Ift
ofAuguft, Fifteen Doil.-irs. ag Cem».
For each share bearing dividend from, the id
of September, FourieeiiiDofljin, fijCetiij.
Foreach share the xft
of-Odober,-
the jft
of November, Thirteen Oollai*, 33 Ojttj.
For each fhare,bearing dividert£ bftin rtft Ift
of December, Twelve 67 Cftu. .
Far each jhfee-qwmer fli.re,-Twelrf; ©ajfeir,.
By order of ihe Prcfident and Dirtftna
3" JOHV KEAts, Cashier.
Federal City.
THE Subscriber will convey forever, by
good and fiuTieient deed, Thirty Lots in
the City of WaJhinßtoji, situated on South
Capitol Street, to any man or company of
mer—provided they will apree to ertft there
on good and fufficient brick houses, within
three years from the date hereof.
DANIEL CARROLL, ofDudding'ton,
City of WajkrngtOn, Dec. 31,1792. ' 6t
Philadelphia, January 9, 1793.
Mathew Carey
RefpoAfuliy informs the Citizens of the United
States, ihat the Maps lor his intended
edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPRO V £ D,
Are now engraving—and as soon -as a fufficient
number of them are finifhed, to secure a re
gular supply during; the publication, which
will probably be early nc*t Spring, the woik.
will be put to picis
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpedtable number of Subfcnbers, who l^v C
come iorwat d thus t arly to pattornze this a> <iu
ous undertaking. He azures them and the pub
lic in general, that ne pains or cxpenfe fiiail be
spared in the execution of the work.
Term of the Work :
i. IT (hall be put/liihcd in 48 weekly numbers,
each containing thiee (heels, or twemy.four
pages, of letter prefi, in quarto, stinted with
new types on fine paper. •
11. In the con r fie of the work will be deliver,
ed about thirty large maps "f the fame size cs
thofein the Europe an editions, viz. mod of than
(licet maps on post paper.
Besides the maps in the Britijk editions, this
work will contain nine or ten American State M.ips. '
111. The price of ra< b number will be a
quarter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
A *> advance required.
IV. Subicribets v.ho disapprove of the work,
011 the publication of the three firft numbcis, are
to be at liberty to return them, and shall have
tbe»r money repaid.
V. The fubferbers' names (hall be prefixed
as patrons of the undertaking.
jMjf#* Subfciiptions received in Philadelphia by
■ intended publisher ; in New-York, by all
TW book fellers; in New-Haven, by Mr. Brris;
in Hartford, by Mr. Patten; in Bofton,by Meif.
Thomas & Andiews, and by Mr. Wet; in B.il
t mnie, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond, by Mr.
J. Carey; in Charlrfton, by Mr. W. P. Young,
and by sundry other ptiCons throughout ibe
United States. (tawti)
„ ' til
:/>?to give'us the epithet of petticoat men,
4cd uo longer merely coat men.
lu some part of his argument, he ex
prefled it, a* his opinion, that notwithT
Itanding apuearances to the contrary,
wt Ihould not have peace very soon.
Mr. Steele i.hfeivcd, that be doubted
not tht comuiiuee , would give the sub-
jest a consideration suited to its import
'tatice ; if in the course of discussion it
should not appear of that impoitance he
hud deemed it to be, they will treat it ac
cordingly. He (hould uot have lifcn thus
early in the debate, if the gentleman last
speaking had not controverted;his emu
lations hy some of his own, without shew
ing from what fourfce he had taken
them. Here Mr. WadfwortU referied to
the appropriation bills, theprincipal patt
of which, he said, he had read. Mr. Steele
proceeded—he recapitulated the substance
of his several statements, to Ihew the pro
grtffive encreafe of the expences of the
Department. He declared himfelf
superior to any pcrfonal conlideratious,
or of private pique against the Secretary
of War; and in refpedt to the Prefideut
of the United States, he profeffed the
warmeli attachment to his perfoh and cha
racter. In coming forward on this occa
sion, he wa» actuated by motives of public
contidei ation, from a conviction that the
system npw purfucd would prcrve pernici
ous in the end.
Mr. Wadfworth rofc to explain: he dis
claimed all personal considerations; he
thought himlclf as much fupeiior to them,
as the gentleman latl speaking. ihe mode
of treating the fubje£t adopted by that
gentleman had drawn forth fame remarks
from him, which he considered as ftri&ly
proper, and which he (hould not have
done his duty not to have made.
Mi". Hartley was against adopting
the motion under the present circum
stances of the country, and he entered
into a particular investigation of the me
rits of the qneftion—When the lalt law
for the more effe&ual protection of the
frontiers passed, the fubjeft now under
coniideration was very fully and ably dis
cussed, and the gentlemen who weie averse
to the augmentation, had fcveval altera
tions made to fatisfy them.
Instead of the Prcfident's being obliged
to raise the whole of the three regiments,
he was to exercise his discretion either to
make the augmentation complete, or raise
a part and had authority to di(band theni
after raised. The 12th fe&ion of the law
is thjis expressed, " That it (hall be law
ful for the Pielident of the United States
to forbear to raise or to disband after they
(hall be raised the whole or any part of
the three additional regiments in cafe e
vents (hall in his judgment render his f<>
doing confident with the public fafety.
We (hould therefore consider, whether
circumstances have so materially changed
since that time as to lender it proper that
the legislature (hould eiiterfere, repeal the
powers given to the President, and dis
charge the three regiments.
This necessarily leads us fii ft, to view
the lituation of our finances, and the (late
of the frontiers at, and immediately be
fore the time of pafiing the law.
The extent of our revenue was not as
well known then as at present, and every
good man depricated the misfortune which
obliged him to encreafe the taxes.
The war was a difagreeablc one, but
necessary, if peace could not otherwise be
obtained.
The legislature conjidered the expence,
and were of opinion, that we had means
and abilities to defray the fame.
Many muiders and ravages had been
committed by the savages on the fron-
tiers—one army had fuffered in the year
f 790, and nearly a wholp army cut off
on the 4-lh of November J79 1. And we
have every fcafon to ftippofe, that the In
dians would ast iti great force against us.
Our finances are still refpeftable—it is
true, I (hould be happy if we could apply
the money toward discharging the nation
al debt already contrasted, but the unfor
tunate situation of our frontiers prevent it.
War—though an evil, may (frpm the
present disposition of the world) be some
times neceflaiy, when nations are unrea
sonable, and justice cannot be otherwise
had. ■
Hostilities have lately been committqd,
on our tioops commanded b,y Major
dair, and several of the southern tribes
{hew thernfelves initnical, and we have no
abfolutc afluranees thatwe (hall have peace
in the fpiipg—The agreement by some
tiibes to a fufpenlion of hoiUli[ies,was con-
venient to them, as it protested their fa-
milies for the winter.
If the great ohjedt of the additional ar
mament was to ob.ain peace—this is not
yet effedted, may we piomife ourselves
more fi;ccefs in negociation by laying
down our arms, or by retaining them ?
Hiltory is in favour of the latter.
Indetd I hold it as a maxim, that the
nation, which is prepared for war, can
jmolt easily obtain peace. For my own
part, lean discover no existing caufesfor
altering the fyllem eltablifhed by the ast,
to which I have before referred.
The cxpence has been made a vety feri
ousobjeftion: it ought tohave weight; but
where measures have been proper, Ame-
Rica has not regarded it. She has fieely
expended her treasure to support her
lights.
We are bonnd in justice and honour to
proteft our fellow-citizens on the frpn
tiers, we demand from them an excise-—
They require from the general govern-
ment protection.
1 am for making peace with all the In
dians upon reasonable terms; but any
country that has been fairly purchafcd
fiom the Indians, they (hould not be per
mitted to re-potfefs or hold by conquest.
If an ofFeufive war be necessary, fays
the gentleman from N. Carolina, regular
troops are not the mofl proper to carry it
oir. They' are more expensive and unfit
to meet the savages of the wilderntfs. As
to the expeiice I have partly answered be-
fore j but if the gentleman is to have five
expeditions in one year, I believe he would
find that his calculations are not coriett :
a misfortune to either detachments or par-
ty would bear very hard upon the diltrift
they came from ; the partial loss of tegu
lars, would not be equally felt, very few
of them having families.
I have a high opinion of the back-woods 1
riflemen, but I am confident that we can
not certainly rely upon fbeir turning out
as often as they might be wanted ; We
could not tely on such uncertainty, and
yet tftis offered as a favourite project.
If you cannot rely upon them, you may
fay that the ordinary militia can be draft
td, you would find them unfit for such a
service, they would in general be compos
ed of substitutes unexperienced and undis
ciplined, and it would be unfair to take
them all from the frontiers and some of
the Hates, or at lcalt one, have no militia
laws—l am for retaining the regular
troops.
The President has pra&ifed oeconomy
in organizing the troops voted for, and I
am told they have made considerable pro
gress in discipline ; they are formed into
legionary corps, cotnpofed of horse, rifle
men, light-infantty, and battalion-men.
The three former will be fit for active ser
vice in the field, the latter for the com
mon duties of the camp or garrison. Ihe
printer miltook my expreifion the other
day in speaking of regular troops. Instead
of faying, there was no instance where re
gular troops had been beat by Indians ;
I mentioned " there was no in [lance dur
ing the late war where regular troops
were beat by anequal number of Indians."
I here repeat the fame observation.
I will allow volunteer? and militia their .
full credit; but I do not think the regu
lar troops merit the disparagement at
attempted—Volunteer corps havenotbeen
free from misfortunes.
Colonel Crawford at the head of 500
volunteers from Virginia and Fennfylva
nia, was defeated in the wellern country, |
and he was burnt at the stake. General
Braddock, it is said, was obstinate, and
his Euiopean troops were undisciplined
sot such a service. The army under Ge
neral St. Clair was loft, because the men
were undisciplined and unfitted for tha
service.
I can mention fevetal instances where
regular troops have penetrated the Indi
an country, among warlike tribes, with
success: Colonel Montgomery into the
Cherokces ; Col. Armstrong to the
ICittanig; Colonel Boquet's campaign
of 1763 and 1,764. Three detachmeots
of the American army in the year 1778 ;
one under the command of Gen. Broad
head ; one under Lieut. Col. Butler, and
the last commanded by your humble fet
v«nt, penetrated the country poffWTed by
the fix nations. Neither of the detachments
jwas large ; and the last had to contend
wgainlt superior numbers.
In Gen. Sullivan's campaign the year
follovvi .J, his van-guard beat an equal,
if not a superior number of Indians.
I might mention the Roman legions ;
they almost conllantly- were fuccefsful a
2 5 6
oainft those they called hathanans, untd
their enemies adopted tne Roman di.cip
-111 reprobate the idea of a Handing arrov
•vhieh "might endanger the l.bcrty of tan,
country ; but I consider th* troops con
templated in the a6t of Congress, to be
absolutely necessary until ptace ihall be
obtained : and therefore (hall vote againlt
a redu&ion.
Every ltep has been taken, and 1 date
fay will be pu.fued by thePrefident.to pro
cure a peace without bloodshed. Our
mcflengers of peace Tiave in some places
been murdered, and yet he has sent mel
fencers to others.
I have a high opinion of the personal
bravery and prowess of an Indian ; but I
do deny that they can a£t to the belt ad
vantage in large bodies. They have not
an experience of that kind ; disciplined
troops would have the advantage—When
I speak of disciplined troops, I mean a
discipline fitted to the country and enemy
they are to a£t again It.
[To be continued. J
TO BE SOLD,
That well-known Place, called
South-Point,
LYING at the end ot Sinipuxeut Neck, on
the Eastern Shore of MaryUnd, within two
.nnlei of the Inlet, in Worceller County, in the
fiid Sute, being the firft landing for veflels that
tiade in there. From the- fiuiation of the place,
it is convenient for fill), clams and tfyttcs, is
oucn to the Tea, and has every couven.ency that
could be with' d for. The foil is excellent tor
Indian coin,' wheat or flax, it natural to clever,
and has a good marsh pasture for fto<k.
Any person deftrousof purchafinj;, may know
the terms by applying to Aijheton Humphreys, Etq.
in Philadelphia—M,r. Benjamin Purnell,n> Indian
Town, Worcester County—or to Cap'. Littleton
Riiim, near the place.
'Jan. 2.
A GK.EAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful fnuauon on the Po
towinack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of direction towards the Federal
City .ind George Town,in full view of each place,
commanding a profptft of tbe river and adjacent
country ol Maryland and Virginia, tor many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying di
rectly on the river, will be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a iwo-ftofy framed
d welling-houfe, neatly ftnifhed, a kitchen, office,
brick imoke-houfe and dairy, two-dory fiamed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ice
houte, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne-
improvements ; the whole of the land
enclofcd with posts and rails, ten or filteen acr<&
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its
contiguity to those three towns inuft render it an
objrtl worthy the attention of any perlon who
wishes to invest money in a property thai mult
enhance 111 value, in proportion to the rapid in.
crcafe of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central fuuation to each place. The Potoafmack
at this spot has a fine deep Ihore and harboui,
capable of receiving veflcls of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men ot
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be err&ed here to the City of
Wafhingion and the Maryland (bores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.—Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles diitaut,
which will futt well to supply the above in
wood and timber. The title.may be fern to the
above property, which is indisputable, and terms
known by application to the fublcribei, living
on the premises.
December 12th, >792'
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or between Providence
and Bolton, a very imall TRUNK, covercd
■with seal-skin of a reddish colour, with white
spots. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Caroiina State Notes, and a few of rhe
State of Rhodt-Ifland ; with other papers,which
can only be ferticeable to the oroprietor. The
State notes, are chc eked at the offices from whence
they iflued. Any person producing the Ttuuk
(with its contents) to JOHN MARSTON, of
Boston, WILLIAM HALL, of Providence,
Mcffrs. PATERSON and BRASHER, New-
York, or Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, shall rcceive the above reward, or for any
part of the property, One Hutidsed Dollars.
liofton, Nov. 28
Soon zuill be publijhcd,
the SYSTEM or
%t- P^and-)
Used by Mr.L lo y d, in taking down the Debates
ot Cotigrefs. A fyitem lb cafy, that any man,
of ordinary capacity, may clearly comprehend
it m half an hour, and soon praftife it, m its
fulL-ft extent, without any further inftru&ion,
than what will be conveycd in a few pages,—
the whole ART being comprised in eighteen
simple chdtaficrSy without any of those perplexing,
arbitrary marks, with which the learners of
other systems are obliged to burden their me
mo? y, 3nd embarrass their pra&ice.
Price, to Subscribers, One Dollar—to Non»
SuMcribers, a Do\lar and half.
Subscriptions received by Me flirt. Rice.Book-
Ctllers, Market-street, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street.
Half a Dollar to be paid at the time ofjubjeribing.
C=T The / I'iee of this Gazette is Three Dollars
per an rum—One /ut/f tt> te p*id at tke time of sub.
J
Between ") Utcaier \fi, 1751.
William Mnpkj In lhe high Coun.olClunce
Cmnplamaut, ryot the State of Hew<
John Meiand o- Jerlty.
tliers IJcfoodaiiis. frt/int,
Hit £xctUency tin Chancellor. .
THE Complainant having ftled hi» bill of
Cumpl><»t againtt the Defendant* ra luc
mouth ol September, feventecn hundred anil
ninety-one, jn d in the {aid Bill ol Complaint did
among omer things fetloith that the laid Coin,
plainant b< log lei/ed in his Dtim fne a* ol tec
ofand in a certain Land, said lo contain
nine hundred and thirty acres, fn uaie, lying and
being iti 'h* townftiip ol Hardwn k io the coun
ty o' Suffix in ihe Stale of New-Jcrfcy, did o»
the fi.-il ot March le-enlecn handed ana eighty
five, bargain fell and convey the fame in tee Btn
ple unto John Meng and John Hendcrfon ol the
city ot Philadelphia, William Goodwin and
John Town, toi the confideraiion ol One Thou
sand Six Hundrtd Pounds in Gold or Silver—
That ou the fifth day ol the fame moiuh of
March the said teoftees above named did execute
unto the said William Shipley a Deed of Mori,
gage in fee limple ol the said Tra& of Land tr»
secure the payment ol ihe laid sixteen hundred
pounds, with the lawful interelt which miglvt
thcieon accrue—Thai in the year seventeen hun
dred and eighiy-lix ihe laid John Meng and
William Goodwin did become Bankrupts with
in the intent and meaning ol ihe afls ol the Le
giflatureofthe Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
and such proceedings were had against them thac
in the fame month they were duly declared
Bankrupts; and that they the said John Meng
and William Goodwin did in some Ihort time
afterwards co.vey and transfer all their cftate
both real and pcrfonai, and patticularly allthrir
right and title to the piemifcs above mentioned
to John Field, Curtis Clav, James C. Fiftier,
Jfaac Wharton, John Kalgilli and Arthur Collins
allot the city of Philadelphia, i'ubjrtt to the
Moitgagc so as aloielaid given to the f-ld Com
plainant.—That <he J" hn I, ' lcld - C«rti,
Clay, James C Fisher, Isaac Wharton, John
Kiiighn and Artlnii Collins soon after bargained,
fold and conveyed all their Right and Title of
and in the laid Trait ol Land unto Benjamin
Town of ihe city <jf Pmladelphia, and Jolm
Town, fubj.ft to the Mortgage aforefaid—That
on the eighteenth day ot October ftventeen hun
dred and eighty-live, ihe laid John Town and
Benjamin Town did execute another Mortgage
to the said William Shipley for lecuriog the pay.
mrnt oftwelve hundred pounds in certain in
ltdilments—That in ihe month ol January seven
teen hundred and eigruy-lix, John Town did
bargain and fell in fee fimplc all his Right and
Tule to the laid premiks, to the said Benjamin
Town, fubje£t to the Mortgages aforefaid—That
in ihe month of February fevtniecn hundred and
eifhty-eigh', the said Benjamin Town did con
vey all his Right and ritie to the said premises,
to John Field and Curtis Clay of the city ot Phi
delphia, upon certain Trulls unknown to theal
Complainant —That said Benjamin Town the
formatter became Bankiupt, and in pursuance
of ihe bankrupt laws of ihe State of Pennlylva
nia, did convey all his eftale real and personal
to a certain Robert Ralllon—That John Hen
dei son did ailoin the mouth ol September seven-
BALDWIN PADE.
ep 2m
eptf.
advertisement;.
teen hundred and eighty-fareo become a Bank*
rupt, and undir the bankiupt laws ot the Slate
of did afliga and convey all his
estate real and personal to David Lenox, George"
Hughes, Matthew Clarkfon, Peter Baynton and
Richard Bdche—And the Complainant doth in
and by his laid Bill, pray that those having
Right to the laid Lit ate may be decreed to pay
him what is due on the laid Mortgages, or that
the equity of Redemption be forcloled by the
Decree of this Court.
And now upon opening this matter this day
%by Richard Siockton, Esquire, being of the com
plainants connfel—it appearing to the Court
that the laid defendants do reside in the State
of Penufylv*nia, without ihe jurifdi£lion ot thii
Court ; and it appealing further to this Court
that writs ot fubpaen* have been taken out ac
cording to the course of this Court, that the said
writs ol fubpeena have been duly feivcd up* a
the said several Defendants upwards ot
year from this day ; and that none ol the said
Defendants have caused his or their appearance
to be entered in this Court to the suit of the said
Complainant : It is therclore ordered by hi*
Excellency the Chancellor, that the said De
fendants do cause their appearance to be entered,
to the suit of the above Complainant according
to the rules ol this Court in two months from
this dav, or that the Plaintiffs bill be taken pro
conteffo agreeably to the dtre&ions of the ast of
the Legislature in such cafe made and provided.
—The Complainant giving notice and making
publication ot this rule as in and by the said adfc
ot the Legislature is provided.
WILLIAM PATLRSON, Chancellor.
Decembtr \ft. 1702. ep 310
To the Public.
r Subscribers having been appointed a
X committee of the of the Truitees of
the Univerfny of for the pur
pose of receiving proposals from i'uch gentlemen
as may intend to undertake the inftru&ion of
youth in institution, lake the opportunity
of making known to the public their wifli that
such gentlemen fliould fignily their inclination
to the fubferibers.
The objects to which it is contemplated by
the Board to turn tMe attention of the iludrnts,
on the fir ft tftablifhmeni, are—The (liwiy of
Languages, particularly the Englifh-»-Hiftory t
ancient and modern—ihe Belle-lettres—Logic
and Moral Phtlyfophy—the knowledge of the
Mathematics and Natural Philolophy—Agricul
ture and Botany, with the principles of Archi-
uflure.
Gentlemen canverfant in these branches of
Scieticc and Litcmurc, and who can be well re
commended, will receive very band Tome encou*
ragement by i lie Boa id. The excrcifes of the
iniliiution will commence as early us possible
after the completion of the buildings of the Uni.
verfuy, which are to be coiitraflc d for iromcdU
SAMUKL ASHE,
aiely
Dis epji*
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAYE,
DAVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLZS.