A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS KY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 71 of Vol. IV.]
-k-
F O 11 SAL £, '
J* tie Suifaiitr, a* SVaimt-Strut tt'kaif,
B/LL or EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediate ule, in pipes & quarter calks,
TENERIFFE WINE, in pipes,
SHERRY WINE, in quarter calks,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 pioul,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Baits io-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
.Aacw 13.41« eh CABLE, 120 fsrboujs long.
GEORGE MEADE.
mi-
TO BE SOLD, OR LEASED
'FOR SEVEN OR TFN YEARS,
TIIE FOLLOWING
HOUSE S.
ONE on Walnut-flreet, near Fourth-street,
23 feet front, has two parlours below, the
ftWour rijby 1 feet, 'he back parlour is
iJWTfM. .i, .fii
by 174 feel. TWre £ie fise good cbafwVn in
ihiv house, belides the garret is divided into
three rooms, in two of them there are fire
placei.
The other House is 2; feet upon Walnut
flreet, and 52 feet upon 4th firm; theie are tw«
good parlours below, one of them 25 by 20 1-2
tett, ihe oilier 95 by t8 1-2 feet, and seven com
jikie btd-chambers; besides the girret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. TI.I kitchens are good ones, and are
under the bouses ; the largest hcufc has also a
house-keeper's room. It is intended there shall
be a communication from both of these h»ufes
to a neighbouring ice-house, fufficiently large to
fuppfy 3 lioufes. Within 50 vards of these
houses, ihere will be cornpleat (tables and coach
houseS, tor both houlcs ; they will bo finifhed
in the moR cornpleat manner, and the keys
ready to he delivered early in the summer.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
oth r half may be paid bv inftalmems, 01 the
whole may remain for 5 years, paying interest
ami giving fecunty 011 the premises.
For terms of sale or lcafe, apply to the Sub
scriber, - - - -—
GEORGE MSASfc
Who has JOr $ALE %
Sundrv Ground Rents,
j '
In this cii v, amounting to twenty-five pounds
sixteen (hillings and fix-pcnce, per annum.
Also, a quaniify of BAGS, that will contain two
and a half and three and a half bulhels.
Philadelphia, fan. 19, 1792. eprnn
City of Washington.
January ;ih, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this City will be of
fered for lale at auction, by the Commif
fioneis, on the 17th day ot September next. —
One fourth pad of the pun:hafe money is to be
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unn^id.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to ihc Cem'rs.
Extratt of an A£ of the General Aflemblv of
Maryland,.concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Washington.
4t Be it eria&cd, That any foreigner may by '
deed or will, hereafter to be take and hold lands
within that fart of the jaid Territory which lies with
in this State. in the fame manner as ij he was a citi
zen of this State \ and the fume lands may be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of thu State: Provided, That no foreigner
in virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen
Jan. 19,
Jtifl publifhcd,
By H-i 8c P. Rice,
No. 50, Market-Street,
the SYSTEM of
■Ufcd by Mr. 1, loyr, in taking riown the
DEBATES of CONGRESS.
*x* Refirrfcntation having been made, that the
Jhortnefs of the period, limited for the Subfcrip'.ion,
ha j deprived many flit It men at a diflance, of an op
portunity oj fending in their names ; —the Editor, in
ordet to accommodate them, and to render this publi
cation more extenfrfeh nfeful, has determined not to
raifc the price to a Dollar and half (as intended) be
fore the fifteenth of March;—making however a dij
crimination, in favor of the aCluai Subfribeis, by
printing their copies on fu pet fine writing
paper. A few remaining copies of this kind will
be delivered to the earliejl of the non Jubfct ibing pur
chafer}y at Vie Jame price as those on the common
printing paper, viz. One Dollar, in marbled covers ;
neatly bound, a French Crown.
Jan., «6
(£3T The price of'his Gazette is Three Do/furs
per annun—Vne kulj t$ be p-ud at the tine
scribing.
<J i>». TiK U A %. r - iW _. .. j
An ACT concerning the regiftcring
and recording of Ships or Vetfels.
See. 18. A ND be it further ena&ed, That,
in all cases, where the master, j
commander, 01 owner of a Ihip or veflel, iljall J
deliver up the register of such fli»p or veifel, |
agreeable to the provisions of this a&, if to ;
the colleftpr of the diftrt&, where the fame
shall have been granted, the laid collector
fliall, thereupon, cancel the bond, which shall
have beeii given at the time of granting such
register ; or, if to the collector of any other
(Jiftridt, luch collector ftiall grant to the said
mailer, commander, or owner, a receipt or
acknowledgment, that such register has been
delivered to him, and the time when ; and
upon such receipt being produced to the col
lector, by whom the register was granted, he
shall cancel the bond of the party, as if the
register had been returned to him.
ep 2i»
Sec. 19. And be it further ena&ed, That
the collector of each diftritt (hall progreflively
number the certificates of the regittry by him
granted, beginning anew, at the commence
ment ofeach year, ami (hall enter an ex»fi
cupv of ench certificate, in a /, »ok 10 be kept
for that purpose ; and (hall, (met in ll.ree
months, transmit to the litgilter of tie Trea
furv, copies of all the certificates, which lhali
have been granted by Uin>, including the nuin-
bcr of each.
Sec. 2i. And be it further enacted, -That
every lhip or veflel, built in the United States,
after the fifteenth day of August, one tliou
fand seven hundred arid eighty-nine, and be
longing wholly, or in part, to the lubjefts of
foreign powers, in order to be entitled to the
benefits, of a (hip, built and recorded in the
United States, stall be recorded in the office
of the collector of the diftri<s>, in which such
lhip or vefl'.'l was built, in manner following,
that is to fay ; The builder of every such (frip
or vessel shall make oath or affirmation, be
fore the collector of such diftridt, tvho is here
by authorized to sid>nini3:er the fame in man
ner following ; " I (inserting here the name
of such builder) of (inserting here the place of
his residence) (hipwright, do swear (or affirm)
that (deferibing here the kind of veflel, as,
whether lhip, brig, fno«', schooner, Hoop of
- vcr - -fcc*re~ tfc
name of the lhi;i or veflel) hiving (inserting
here the number of decks) and being, in length
(inserting here the number of feet) in breadth
(inserting here the number of feet) in depth
(inserting here the number of feet) and mea
suring (inserting here the number of tons)
having (fpecifying, whether any or 110) galle
ry, and (also fpecifying, whether any or no)
head, was built by me, or under my direction, •
at (naming the place, county and in the
United States, in the year (inserting here the
number of the year ;") which oath, or affir- -
mation, (hall be fubf'cribed by the person ma
king the fame, and (hall be Recorded in a
book, to be kept by the said collector for that
puvpofe.
Sec. 21. And he it further enacted, That
the said collector (hall cause the said (hip or
velll-1 to be surveyed or admeasured, accord
ing to the rule prescribed by the forty-third
feftion of the ast, intituled " An ast to pro
vide more effectually for the collection of the
duties imposed by law On gotods, wares, and
merchandize, imported into tile United States,
and 011 the tonnage of (hips or Veflels end
the person, by whom such admeasurement
(hall be made, (hall grant a certificate there
of, as in the cafe of a (hip or veflel to be re
glilered ; which certificate (hall be counter
signed by the said builder, and by an owner,
or the master, or person having the command
or charge thereof, or by some other person,
being an agent for the owner or owners there
of, in teftiniony of the truth of the particu
lars therein contained.
Sec. 22. And be it further enacted, That
a certificate of the said record, attefled under
the hand and seal of the said collector, (hall be
granted to the matter of every fuck {hip or
vessel, as nearly as maybe, of the form follow
ing : " In ourfuance of an ast, intituled, "An
ast concerning the registering and recording
of (hips or vefliels," I (inserting here the
name of the collector of the diftrift) of (in
serting here the name of the diftrift) in the
United States, do certify that (inserting here
the name of the builder) of (inferring here the
place of his relidence, county, and State) ha v.
ing sworn, or affirmed, that the (describing
the (hip or veifel, as in the certificate of re
cord) named (inserting her* her name) where
of (inserting here the name of the master) is,
at present, master, was built at (inserting here
the name of the place, county, and State,
where built) by him, or under his direction, i.i
the year (inserting here, the number of the
year) and (inserting here, the name of the
furvevor, or other person, by whom the fame
admeasurement shall have been made) having,
certified, that the said (hip or vefiel has (in
ferring here, her number of decks) is, in
length (inserting here, the number of feet) in
breadth (inserting here, the number of feet)
in depth (inserting here, the number of leet)_
and measures (inserting here, the number of
Saturday, February 2, 175*5.
281
Y
«
~j ) • And the said builder and (naming and
1 Scribing the owner, or master, or agent for
the owner or owners, as the cafe may be, by
v horn the ftiid certificate lhall have been
c . juter-figned) paying agreed to the said de
ft, ription and admeasurement, the said fljip or
veifel has been recorded, in the diftrift of (in
citing here, the name of the diftr'nft where
Recorded) in the Uijited States ; Witness my
! ajd and feat thro (inserting here, the day of
tie month) day of (inserting here the name of
tie month) in the year (inserting here, the
l umber of the year)'.'*; which certificate shall
1 e recorded in the office of the said collector,
v.nd a duplicate thereof transmitted to the
Register of the Treafufy of the United States,
to be recorded in his office.
Sec. 23. And he it further enacted, That
« the master, or the name, of any ship or vet
s i so recorded,(hall be changed, the owner,iiart
ci 'ner, or consignee of such ship or veflel, shall
c-ufe a memorandum thereof lo be endorfiid
"i the certificate of the record, by the col-
L' ;C lor of the diftrift, where such ship or vef
-1 I may bs, or at which fire llvall firft arrive,
such change took place in a foreign country;
; ■ d a copy thereof shall be entered in the
yok of records, atranfetipt whereof shall be
. anffriitted, by the said collector, to the col
..ftor of the diftiicV, where Inch cerfHtrotg
>vas granted [if not the fame person) who shall
i nter the fame in his book of record?, and
•■irwari! a duplicate of such entry, to the Re
gister of the Treafurv of the United States ;
md in such cafe, until the said owner, part
owner, or consignee, shall cause the said me
morandum to be made, by the collector, in
manner aforefaid, such ship or vessel shall not
lie deemed, or considered, as a vcHM record
ed, inpurfuarce of this act.
[To be continued.]
fSOM THE COLUMBIAN MIRROR.
Me(T. Smith & Price,
From the diversity of fent'ment which
has lately taken place among citizens in
general, owing to the debates in Congress it.
f|>e&i»g the inefficacv of" regular disciplined
troops, when employed against Indians—l
cannot, as a citizen, refrain from giving my
.miion aifo ; which is, that militia is by r,o
' i.i'-ails a proper force to be caiijWvcd in <v
tarit regions and against such an enemy- IVli
litia, when acting even in defence of every
thing that is dear to man, and an enemy -at
their doois, have ever been found inadequate
to the obtaining any thing decisive. In fonie
few instances they may have repelled an infe
rior body of their enemy, but they have never
conquered in one out of fifty. It is impoffib'e
that such a class of soldiers, taken suddenly
from the ease and comforts of private life,
can be equal to regulars, who are inured to
every species of fatigue, cold hunger, thirst,
and the thousand other disagreeable circum
stances that occur in long marches and diflant
campaigns.
In a paper which I lately perilled, it is there
asked, who fought the battles of New-jersey,
North-Carolina, Cowpens, South-Carofir.a,
and Georgia ? I will answer, not militia.
Was the battle of Princeton fought by militia?
We't the Hefiians taken at Trenton by mili
tia ? Was the battle of Monmouth fought by
militia? Was the battle of Kutaw fought by
jnilitia*-Was the ftormingof Stony-Pointex
ecuted by militia? Did Genocal Morgan de
feat Tarleton by militia ? Was Col. Lee's
surprise of Paules Hook, and the many brilli
ant actions of that excellent officer in the two
Carolinas, performed by militia ? Did Col.
Samuel Smith defend Mud- Island Fort against
the whole Brit fh fleet in the Delaware, with
militia ? Were the HelEans defeated on Ked
Bank by militia? Was Chamblee, Fort St.
John, Montreal, Src. taken by militia ? Were
those who stormed Quebec militia ? Were
those men who marched through the Indian
country under General Sullivan, militia ? NO
Did they fight .at the battle of Guilford
Court-Hnu'e ? A little—but what was the
caufeofit? Small parties of regulars, under
non-conimillioned officers, were drawn up in
their rear with fixed bayonets, which were to
be made use of against them if they offered to
retreat without orders ; thus being in as
much danger from our own ai my as that of
the British, they were of some use—Did they
fight at the battle of Camden, when General
Gates was defeated ? I fay no—three thou
sand of them ran away, whilst the Maryland
line, the Jersey regiment, and Arniftror.g's
legion, in all not above eleven or twelve
hundred, fought Corawallis's army for twen
ty minutes, hand to hand, until they were
surrounded (owing to the dallardly conduct of
the militia) and even then they charged thro'
their enemy, and the greater part made their
escape. Thus did a handful of regulars—thus
ran three thousand miiitia—and thus was the
brave Gen. Gates defeated.
Let us now take a view of Indian affairs.
In the year 1793, Gen. Harmer, that real dis
ciplinarian and competent officer, ina r (hed
on an expedition against the Miami Indians.
He had with him part of his own regiment,
which was the lft, and regular they were in
[Whole No. 595."
deed. Ido not know the exa& n«mber of
militia, but am certain they were near two
thirds of his army. lie p-ot to their town*-,
which he totally deft roved, together with all
their crop of corn, &c. On his march the
militia behaved in the 1110 ft unfoldier*like
manner ; firing night and day round his camp,
notwithstanding the niofl pointed orders to
the contrary. One day he dete&ed a militia
man in this breach of general orders : he had
him immediately punished j hut was under
the necessity of loading his artillery, and hav
ing his regulars drawn up in order, that the
punishment might be inflicted undisturbed by
the militia, who threatened very hard on the
occasion ; in fliort, every day he was disturb
ed by their turbulent and difordcrly behavio^.
On his inarch back to Fort Waihingfcon, he
was solicited by the commanding officer of
the militia, for permission to attack a body
of Indians which appeared in his rear, and
that he would engage to retreive their cha
racter, which had fuffered Co materially in the
mind of the General—for he.tnonght, that
though they could not he made to march with
regularity and silence in an enemy's country,
yet itill they could fifth t that enemy if they
appeared. But if a soldier cannot be made to
obfervt orders and pay re "pert to them, I an\
sure he cannot foe inatlgTetigftT, wUtiUl UIIUV
is the more dif agreeable parr of military duty.
Htiwever, to proceed. The General think
ing it nece/Tary to give a check to the Indi
an.';, left they fhoukl harrafs his rear, complied
with the militia officer l 4 requcft, at the fame
time detached'eventy or eighty of the regu
lars to Aipport them, under Major WyHis.
In a fliort time they fell in with a "finall patty
of the Indians, which, I suppose, was Tent for
ward by their main body as a -bait. The few
Indians ran, and nearly t*ie whole of the mili
tia after them, contrary to the most earnest
entreaties of their officer. The regulars dis
played their little column -and formed, flood
the bi unt of neatly the whole force of the
enemy, until they were cut in pieces, except
a few under Capt. Armstrong, who charged
through them and made ffie r retreat —but
not till they had laid eighty-odd warriors dead
011 the field. The militia who pursued the
few flying Indians, loft fight of their prey in a
fliort time ; but the firing of the party engag
t«i, nrrxi a i4tftanr'foMiTH r>4>He Wi r-y»tar>r>rr.
a fufficient tlimulcsfor them to encreaie their
distance : a few got back to the army, and re
ported to the General, that all the reft were
destroyed, whllft a more considerable number
never stopped until they had gained the Ken
tucky ftiore ; and r. Iso reported, that their ab
sent friends were also cut to pieces. This
was called Harmar's defeat, though at tie
fame time he did not lose a single paik-horfe,
nor a man more than was facrificed by the
gallant behaviour ojthof;javaritc Indian jighttr*.
1 fliall now beg leave to touch a little -on
the conduct of those iniinrii/es who accompa
nied the army of Gen. St. Clair—When they
firft joined, they wee in number about 4°°S
but owing to desertion, there were not, on
the day oflwttle, more than 300. Through
out the whole march, after their jnnftion, they
kept the camp in a constant alaim by tbeirir
regular condue>, and firing round the pickets
and out posts, often in the dead hour of the
n'ght. Gen. St. Clair threatened and remon
strated with them, informing them how dan
gerous it was, inafinnch as it favored the ap
proach of an enemy ; for it would be impnl
fible to devise whether it was the pickets fir
ing at the Indians, or the inilitia fhoot'mg
bears.
Thiswas not the only part of their conduct
that, in my opinion, tended to the defeat of
the army. A few days bofore the acftion a
whole company, at least 63 or 70 of them,de
ferted ; the firft regiment was detnehed in
pursuit of them, as well as to prevent their
plundering the provision which was on the
road, and expected to arrive in a short time.
There was I believe a third reason for throw
ing this regiment in the rear, which was t<>
deter others of the militia from this difgrace
ful retrogade.
A third reason why I think they were in
ftruinental in the defeat of t! army is as fol
lows : When the tropns on the evening pre
ceding the fatal 4th of November, 1791, halt
ed and encamped, the militia, who wiflict! to
be separate from the regulars, were advanced
one quarter of» mile over a small river that
ran along the front of the encampment : the
pickets of the army were ported at about the
fame distance in the rear, with the proper
camp and flank guards, stationed in fuel) a,
manner, as to prevent a surprise or sudden at
tack iii its then position. After dark, it ap
pears a tew guns were fired at foir.e distance
over the river where the militia was posted j
but it was as much to be presumed, that they
were firing at the stars as at the enemy; how
ever, the Adjutant-General was sent over the
river with orders to their commander, that
at about an honr before day he fliould divide
t'ne men into Several parties of about 20 or 30
each, with an officer at their head, and move
011 in different directions towards the Indian
villages. But alas! they were still militia;
no attention was paid to these orders. Day»light appeared, they were attacked, ran in
confulion, made not the least refillai.ee, and
tl»eir commander, the brave Oldham, was
ilain in attempting to raily them.
A few moments before the flight of the mi
litia, the troops were difmifTed from their
posts (where they had been (landing under
arms at least two hours) for the purpofa of
cooking their vi&nals ; when the firft thing
that announced the approach of the enemy,
was the militia plunging through the nver »
I'moft a quarter of an inch thick ot ice, and
the Indians, with horrid yells, at their heels.
The army was surrounded in a few minutes,
and a dreadful and deadly fire commenced ;
the soldiers stoOd to their tackle, charged,
drove the enemy, returned to their line and
charged again when ordered { and, as th£ gen
tleman from North-Carolina fays, 4 they
fought like regulars, stood ttke regular, and,
poor fellows, they died like regulars." But
had the militia acted as regulars, by obeying
orders, and firing on the enemy as they ad
vanced, and given time for the army to dis
play into an ofFenfive position, instead ot a de
ienfive one, they would have advanced on their
enemy like regulars, fought like regulars, and
eonqnered like regulars.
1 hope, from these statements of fa&s, that
every unprejudiced person will allow, that
the militia was the principal cause -of Har
mer's rubb, and St. Clair's defeat.—Dwelt as
I have so long upon the defeat of regular ar
mies, it is almost time to fay something of mi
litia vi&ories.
A late one of which has been brought tor
ward to support the argument, that militia
is the only species of troops proper to fight In
dians. An officer with upwards of ioo militia
been to Fort Jefferfon, with a quantity
of provifions,&c. for theufe ot that garrifori ;
on his return he encamped at Fort St. Clair,
having under his escort 200 horses ; about
the dawn of day, on the 6th of last November,
4ie was attacked by a pjfty of Indians, his
men flew to a Urge flockade (which was built
for the, purpose ps securing horses) in the mean
— t4m& r -the «ncmy cavgbt and carried off all
theiF borfes and plundered their camp ; how
ever the officer colle&ed 4° °r 50 of his men,
and engaged part of the enemy, but it was too
late, the Indians had gained their point by car
rying off their hooty, with the loss of only two
men. Thus fifty militia out of 100 foughi,
killed two Indians, loft 200 borfes, and all
their camp- A brilliant affair indeed !—But
a most enormous price to pay for the car cases
of two savages.—Such victories as these, con
tinued for a (hort time, would exhaust the
mines of Mexico or Peru.
I fliall make a few more observations be
fore I conclude, concerning this strange Idea
which prevails in the minds of fomc refpeft
ing regulars and militia. The member of
Congrels from North-Carolina, revert? to
what the militia of his country had done dur
ing the late war. He lays, they fought from
a love of their country, that they were men
of bravery, men of principle, fee. &C. And
alks, will such men enlist in a regular army?
1 wjil iuftrec. that if iiieb men
fift m *We regular army, when the liberties of
their country were at stake, it is not to be ex
pected that they will now enlist andjmarch 6 or
700 miles to fight Indians. If there is an art,
or a peculiar method to be pra&iled in fight
ing in a woody country, cannot a person un
der fubordinatlnn, and acquainted with all the
duties of a soldier, be taught it as well as a
militia man who is under none, and not ac
quainted with any fort of military duty, who
knows nothing more than {hooting a rifle,
and who will only make use of it against an
enemy when he thinks proper J Indeed, I
think amulket ball, fired' at an Indian behind
a tree, would do as much execution that
of a rifle.
A regular, well organized and disciplined
army, is the only one we can export fuccels
from. Sucli that, by order, can in an inftqnt
be thrown into any position, that can be divi
ded into a number of parties, march in dif
ferent directions, though in presence of an
enemy, and return to their line only by the
beat of a drum or found of a trumpet. Will
militia do this ? Did tlieyeverdo it ? No, not
<U the drums and trumpets in the victorious
French army, would ever rally or Hop a rout
ed militia. When I hear of the alhes of tnofe
heroes, who gallantly fell at their poll the fa.
tal 4th of November, raked up to lie put in
competition with a corrupt, infective militia,
it makes me' shudder. I will allow militia to
have supported one post well, that is, the old
adage,
Those who Jight and run azvav,
" H ill live to Jight another day."
And farther I will allow them,
u That'when a Jight becomes a chafe,
" They win the fight who coin the race."
Jan. 17, 1793. CLYTUS.
MOM THE UNirkn STATES chronicle.
Mr. Wheiler,
THERE was a time whenthe name of Louis
the XVIlh. re-echoed from tine extreme of
ihefe States to the other—when loud Hofannahs
and Te Dtums were sung on the joyful birth of
the Dauphin " When ten thousand [words
■would have vaulted from their scabbards to re
venge an mfull" ugainU (he char*%r of so (Mod-,
so just a Prince. Ameiica wanhen ind/bted,
and (he \tfSi grateful: but peace soon hilled all
remembrance 10 sleep ; and Gratitude, that hea
ven-born virtue, like all the qualities of the hu
man mind which lay dormant a length ot time,
Teems almost entirely to have .forfaken our
(horcs.
The very man who has even facrificed his
Crown, by his efforts to emancipate this Wel
torn World; now lies like a common malefac
tor a/one and confined in a dole, difa»,real>le
prifoo.or Baflfie; -deprived of the sweet cheer
ing foctefy of his wife and children— denied
*hv social ccrtvcrfe of * feeling friend. In Con
ftant (rar of the horrid afTaffination of his fa
mily, by the en'igklcncd naif of Farii, or in dread
of smAtkuial aud an ignominious death : And
yet theie air even among us, Americans, . >who
now publicly mfult his milery, by rejoicing at
hi* fair.
In whzt language call ye this Gratitude ?
• Z.
For tfig GAZETTE of the UN JTED STATES.
BANKS*
CONGRESS is blamed for
to a Bsnk, Ir'il really curious tp trace
theobjr&ions of ih<* party to this meaUire.-'-
Sometimes the B'aifk is blamed for giving, by
it« discounts, a (Tift 4 nee lo fpeculaton—anti jheo
by checking them when the prudence tri the
&>iit&ors suggests fhat it is nccelTaiytt»4e,
(ay they, is diLppointed and injured.
mint, fay they, for paper-money, and the in
c red ft «» bills reduces the value ot property bf
the over quantity of the medium. Vet »he fame
men favor the eftabKftunent of State Banks-*
These wc (cc are multiplying daily<-*-and if too
much papei (hall be iffued> and the discounts
(hall be, as they certainly will, more irregular
and more rilky to the several Banks, in propor.
tion as their number is increased, they ftarid rra
dy to (hew how much evil has ensued from the
Bank of the United States. Yet onefuch Bank
cannot be denied to be ufeful—- to be nectlfary,
probably fully adequate to the wants of this
country for its circulation. Ail that is'done V>y
the several ftatei over and above what is enough,
it is evident will be an evil, and the blame ought
not to test on Congress, be the confequeocea ever
so diftrefTnig to the citizens.
Men »f fetife and experience will render a be,
ntfit to the public, by turning -their attentton to
the conferences of the laftiiouable rage for
Banks. Excess in every ihing is an evil. There
is no difpure that one Bank to the circula
tion of the United States, is capable of aiLvding
the most substantial benefits to t r a<fe, Having
such a Bank, you have all. The fubjeft is,Hi>K
made better by being up, an<i the ttUu
nfcfs of banking bifiken into a number of Tfff u
tutions independent Qi Sfcfch ofher—and what if
wr»rf*S rivals. It is evtdetif, and capable of drift
demonstration, that two Banks cannot circulate
paper, and make difcount>, as fafely, as liberal
ly, and as regularly as one Bank. It is true, and
experience is beginning to convince us, that in
regard to the commeicial advantages of bank
ing, by making more Banks, you have less ac*
comtnodation. There is a common prejudice
which fecms to be refpeftable—that competi
tion is as nccelfary to banking as to other br-auehff
ot bufinefa. This is not true. R-ivatfhip can.
not give either of the Banks greater ability to
circulate and make discounts : by lncreafing tlie
hazard, each is lefstible. CompctiJion thetefore
takis away the means of lending, nor is it more
neceflarv to make them willing to lend. Profit
is a fufficient incitement to lOan all they cats
wi:h fatety, Iu both views, competition ill
banking is injurious to the lenders and bor
rowers.
For the GAZETTE of the UHTTED STATES.
MR. Fenno,
WHIt E'lfhfrty and Etjiiility, Paine • r.'ji
the Rights of Man, ire ail the rage at
the Eastward, we hear with pleasure ibu our
Southern brethren are not tar behind them ; —
not even a Mi. it admitted to precede ! name
at the preferit day—while their i'able feiiow
creatures are frequently addrelTed, 'fCitizen
Casfar," or 11 Citizen Pompey, clean <ny boots,
&.c. See."—-This may be well—but to htar the
Auctioneer cry,' " twenty poundjt for Citizen
Alexander-—who bids more ? M * Ileitis to be car
ry tngthe joke too far in a free country.
Foreign Affairs.
PARIS, November I.
A GREAT many Prussians and Auftriars
present themselves daily before the Coun
cil General .of the Commons, claiming the
promised bounties ; but in future a ft net in
quiry is to be made into their characters, as
the greater part of them are fbfpe<?ted to fce
enemies in disguise.
In tlie fitting of the Jacobin club of the.Jf.ft
ult. poor Louis' and his famiiy were
made the topic. " Let us clamour," was
the cry, " till the whole race be extermina
ted, and let fie mode' that fliall be adopttd,
for the trial of the Capets, be the precedent
for trying all tyrants !"
NATIONAL -CONVENTION.
Novembei 13.
In the session of the 6th a letter was read
fi»m the cemmiffioners sent to the frontiers
of the Peyrennes. They announce that the
organization of the army of the Pevre'nnees
goes on rapidly and fuccefifuHy Ten thou
sand men, they lay, are Sufficient to render
the frontiers of the Upper and Lower Pey
rennees impenetrable. He adds,' that they
have re-eftabl:ftied unanimity among the
Balques, and denounce a number of abuses
which prevail in different administrations and
in the civil and military tribunals. Tht-y
have given the Basques liberty to aflift at the
Primary Aflemblies.
A letter was read from several patriotic so
cieties in England, signed by Maurice
rot, President; and Thomas Hardv, Secre
tary.
LONDON, November 18.
Thursday a report was current in the city,
which occasioned a considerable depression cf
the flocks, that Mr. Pitt had refigned t in cou
fequence of being prefl};A to promote a liqui
dation by parliament bt' the Prince's deMs.
Stocks fell 3 per cent, in coufequence of tl\is
report. We are happy in being enabled pb
fitively to state, however, that it is Wholly
without foundation. The payment of thife
debts is a point which a certain late great
law lord has strenuously urj. e a, but whith lias
282
been aj»«sr«nfcoufly resisted ; an 3 toss
has resolved to adopt a mode of li
quidation more honourable to himTeih
The fucceft of the French in Flanders may
like wife have operated to depress the funds ;
for their success Teems to threaten the fafety
and tranquility of every country, whether
friend or toe.
The productive (Vate of the revenue of the
year 1792, so greatly exceeding that of last
year, causes the many cooje&ures as to what
Mr. Pitt will do with the money. Another
halfpenny a pound off the candles, it is ge
nerally thought will certainly take place; and
the next burthen which the minister is said to
h?ive in view to eafc the public, from, is the
duty either in part or in toto, that canfed the
rife of the halfpenny on thefporter. But more
the halfpenny On the candles, it is cer
tain, inray and will be taken off.
A wag, some time ago, advertised a car
riage to perform without horses, with only
one ivktely and invited the curiout in-mechanics
to fee it. Many of the members of the so
ciety of arts attended, and in the ardour of
expectation were (hewn—« wheelbarrow.
Tuesday night died, at Lonß-AHiton, in So
merfetfhire,aged93,the Rev.Dr.HenryCaner,
a very refpe&able character, many years
minister of £ne Episcopal Church of Boston,
in New-England. .When the American Re
volution took place, he was obliged to relin
quifhhis ministry, his country, and his pof
feflions, and took refuge in England, where
he has since lived, diftingnifhed by a pJacid
lerenity of mind, and a cheerful submission to
the various viciflitudes of his existence.
DUBLIN, Movember 6.
Letters received in London fqm Turin,
mention that General Paoli died at Corlica,
of an apople&ic fit.
In many farts of the weft of England, a se
vere eoidemic, under the form of Scarlatine
Aginofa, ha? for Come time past prevailed ia
so great a <l<#*ree, that Wmarry villages', par;
ticularly Hotdfwort'iy, nine-tenths of the in
habitants have been confined at the fame
time.
The complaint originated in the very fre
quent and heavy rains that have almost delu
ged the country.
We hear that our government and ministry
are inftrufted from the cabinet of St. James's,
to grant every reafoftahle privilege that mav
be requested bv any of his majesty's faithful
fubje&s at the opening of the fefiioti ; a cir.
cumftance that mud rejoice a)l true friends
to this country, which then and only then,
can enjoy its natural and local advantages,
at present cramped and smothered by politi
tical prohibitions and partial laws.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, January ai.
Sketch of the l)ef>ate on the hill authorizing a
loan of the balances due on a finalfettlement
of accounts from the United States to indivi
dual States.
Mr. GILES moved, that the proviso in the
second fedlion of the bill fliouid he flruck out,
refpc&ing the aflent of the individual dates to
tte new loan, as it does not agree with the idea
precisely, coiitained in the rsiolutior.s on which
the bill wa6 founded; and adverting to the pro
vilion contained in the funding law refpe&ing
these balances, h« observed, that the bill now re
ported interfered with the disposition of the
balances, whereas that law ha* veiled the dispo
sal of them exclusively in the several dates.
A CIT.
Mr. Fitzfimons said, that there was a varia
tion in the proviso in the bill, from that in the
sriginal resolutions, which had accidentally tak
en place; he said, that the variation was cer
tainly not in order, and he therefore moved, that
the proviso in the bill (hould be amended so us to
conform to the resolutions.
Mr. Sedgwick remarked, that the gentleman
lad speaking was undoubtedly right in refpecft
to the order, but he did not draw the
fame condulion : The proviso in the bill may
vary from that in the resolutions; but if it more
completely comports with the ideas of a majori
ty of the committee, he saw no good reason for
not adopting it. He added some observations on
the remarks of Mr. Giles, which he conildered
as making it a queflion, whether the govern
ment ihould literally comply with its engage
ments 01* not—this, he hoped, would never be
made a subject of debate in the legislature of the
United States.
Mr. Fitzfimons said, he hoped the amend
ment which he l'uggefted, would take place.
Mr. Clark observed, that he thought the bill
was altogether wrong; he moved therefore, that
it Ihould be re-committed. Mr. Clark entered
into a general confide ation of the fubjedt, but
spoke unusually low.
Mr. Lawrence was in favour of the committee's
rising; he cited an instance in point, which oc
curred the last session.—A feletfk committee on
the census had exceeded the limits of the princi
ples agreed to in the committee of the whole,
the bill they reported was accordingly re-com
mitted; the houTe Would not then consent to
altering the bilj lb the House, as it would sanc
tion a deviation stain eftaMilhed principles.
. Murray was opposed to the committee's
rilinghe law no occaiion for it; the variation
is merely verbal, and can be easily corrected.
The question tor the committee's riling was
put, and agreed to. They accordingly rose and
reported progress. On motion, the committee of
the whole was discharged. The bill was then re
committed to the felefi committee, which re
ported it. The requisite alteration beiwr
made, the bill, as amended, was reported to
the House, twice read and referred to a com
» mittee of the whole.'
Mr. Steele ajjt'ii in the chair.—TJ.c co.T.t*!,
tee proceeded in the difcuflian of tile btil.
Mr. Mercer, after Hating that variom
friendly remarks were made on the govcrunirct
and on particular members,in confequenie cfrtt
former assumption; and informing thccaauniu
tee that there was a large sum of the paper :r.
ney of a particular Hate in this toxvn, which
was felling at lot. in tl>e pound, observed tin;
this bill would probably appreciate the value 0 f
that paper perhaps to ios. in the pound. In or
der, therefore, to give the fulleft information to
the people of the United States, and to prevent
those at 7 or 800 miles distance from being de
frauded, he moved an ajrtndmenr, the objed of
which was to prevent tcrtificatu which h*ve
been transferred within 6 certain period from
being fuhferibed to the •
Mr. Fltifimons said, « he had brought for
ward the resolutions -ibn -which the bill wu
founded ; he thought it incumbent on him to
notice the observations advanced by the gentle
man in fnpport of his motion He remarked
that with rcfpe<& to the general fcntiment of the
people, perhaps he knew as little about it as 9-
thers; but this he knew, that if unfavourable
impressions had not been made, it was not be
eaufe attempts had been wanting for that pur
pose, on the part of individuals within these
walls—With refpeft to himfelf he felt no solici
tude; but if any member of this House knew of
any fads of the kind alluded to by the gentle
man, let the person who knows of such things
boldly come forward and charge openly the
guilty, with relpcfl to the present motion, he
would have ho obje&ion to it, provided it did
not interfere with the general provisions of the
bill.
Mr. Bourn said, he ihould be in favour of the
motion, provided it was pra&itable; but he
did not fee how it could be carried into execu*
tion.
Mr. Williamfon supported the motiorl. He
said it met hi* approbation so far as it would cdn
duce to prote&ing the original holders of the
f.ate debts from such speculations as they fuffer
ed by, at the time of the former assumption.
Mr. Sedgwick remarked on the rapid rife of
the value of the paper, in consequence of the for
mer assumption, and said, that considering what
human nature was conftitu'ed of, the fpeculajtU
ctytt alluded to, and which he had lamented
a$ much as any man whatever, were to have
been expc&ed. He then adverted particularly
to the remarks of Mr. Mercer, in which he had
said he had his ftifpicioris even of the members
of the House. Mr. Sedgwick said, the earsuf
members had been often assailed by insinuations
and suspicions of the base condu<st of individuals
in this House, as speculating iji their own tr.ea
fujes. if, said Mr. Sedgwick, there is so base
and infamous a character within these walls; if
there is one member of this House who has been
guilty of this abominable condu<ft, of plundering
his constituents of their property, in the manner
represented, let his pame be mentioned, let the
man be pointed out. From the pare he had taken
in this business from the beginning, and frnm
the iuggeftions which hrad been he
had some rtafort so suppose it might be be intend
ed to implicate him in the charge. He could not
help feeling himfelf called upon to notice such
indilcnniinateinffmiations, fych attempts to af
fix a lligma on particular charafters—menwhofe
reputation is theft dearest poffeflion. Mr. Sedg
wick then offered several obje&ions to the mo
tion ; he remarked that its tendency would be
to keep open the door of/peculation.
Mr. Mercer replied to Mr. Sedgwick; he
observed, that his remarks weredir«&ad to hu
man natnre at large; he considered it as a point
not to he controverted that temptation, in pro
portion to its extsnfive and flattering profpedts,
would always have an influence ; for himfelf,
he could neveryrilh to have his own horour and
integrity put. to the test, He fubferibed to the
sentiments of Mr. Sedgwick refpe&ing the sa
cred nature of reputation, and repeated the lines
from Shakespeare—'" He that robs me of hiy
good name, &c.
Mr. White said h« disapproved of the princi
ple on which the amendment was brought for
ward. He believed the aspersions on the mem
bers of Congress, were totally unfounded—He
did not doubt but [peculations had been carri
ed on to a very great extent, during the depend
ence of the funding system; but this could not
be avoided; men would venture according to
their opinion of the final event of the meafare ■—
and priccs would consequently fluctuate. When
the proposition for difcriminatiou was brought
forward, the price of paper fell; when it was
reje&ed, the price rose again. It was probably
the fame with regard to the slate debts, in the
various (tages of the business; bnt surely nofuf
picion of improper conduct could fall on those
who voted uniformly either for or against the
measure. Indeed the above has generally fallen
on those who opposed the aflumption in the ex
tent firft proposed, and voted for it as finally
modified. These were but five in number; they
were easily known ; three yet retain their feats,
two are of fame ft ate with the gentleman 1
who offefed the amendment, and are not now
members of the House; that he was of the
number, and he was confident that no man ap
plying the charge of speculation to himfelf or
to any one of those wh» voted with him, would
believe there was the ftiadow. of truth in it; but
he would attend to the difeuffion ; and however
be might difiike the reason afugned for offering
the amendment, if he found any good likely to
arise from it, would give it his vote.
Mr. Mercer's remarks brqught up several
other members, who severally, adverffhg to the
circumflances attending the patting the funding
a&, shewed that tho* they had voted for the sys
tem, that they were i.ot influenced byperfonal
considerations. '
The motion of Mr. Mercer was repeated y
modified and altered, and then further debate .
Mr. Barnwell said, he disapproved of the mo
tion ; it appeared to be a very extraordinary. measure indeed; the oftenfibk motive is to pre
vent Speculation, but it will have diredlly the
contrary effeift. The way, in his opinion, to pre
sent speculation, was to appreciate the value of
the certificates in the hands of the holders; but
what will be the effect of this measure ? it will
- lessen the value of the paper immediately, by
preventing the pofleffor from transferring th«
property —This he considered as a retrofpe&ive
measure, and that the government had no rig t
ta abridge the right of ttansferring; it is a qua
lity of the property, and cannot be taken away
l>y any subsequent law. He considered the mea
sure as countera&ing the principles of the bill
altogether, the of which is to give a
■Value to the paper i#the hands of the owners.
-In every view 'of (tic proportion he was opr
j>ofed to it j and cho' It appears designed to I)<>
uefit the distant creditors, yet he felt fa fulljr
•yerfuadecl that it woiljd operate to the disadvan
tage of his constituents, that he ihould under e
.very modification vote against it.
Mr. Madison replied to Mr. Barnwell; hp
•observed, that the gentleman argued from pro
per principles, if they had bien applied to a dif
ferent cafe. The present proposition of provid
ing for these balances is a voluntary buiinefs,
which this government is under no obligation to
engage in ; but having engaged in it, the mea
sures it may adopt on the occasion, have no ne.
eeffary reference to, or connection with the ge
neral regulations under which the paper now ex
ists—the government- may make just what ar
rangements it thinks proper. The provision
now contemplated, he remarked, was however
to be juftified on itsown merits; the uses and the
confluences rcfulting from it, were designed to
be salutary; and with refpeiSl to persons remote
from the feat of government, who are equally
entitled to prote&iori in every sense with those
who reside there, they .would evidently be bene
refited by the regulatit®
Mr. Murray oppofod the motion, as being
bofttttrto the jmblir £uth, involving eojinfrac
tion of that feith,. so far at least: as
of the certificates have bfcen enhanccdin confo
quence of what has already been done.
Several other members fpok< on the oCcasion,
the motion wag at length negatived by the com
mittee.
Monday, January 28.
The EiU to authorise a L.oan in th: Notes
or Certificates of the fever al States which,
on a final Settlement of AccountsJhaU have
a Balance, due to them from the United
States—having been read the third time—*
the Que/Hon, {hall the 'Bill pass ? was
put by tie Speaker :
Mr. Hartley.—l have attended to the debates
en this bill, and considered the fubje&—and am
fully convinced that the bill ftiould pass.
By the atft for fettling (he accounts between
the United States and individual states, the ba
lances were aHumed to be paid to the creditor
states.
The bill under consideration gives the alter
native'to jhall be/©mtd-e cre
ditor) either to receive the balance berfelf and
pay it to Her citizens, or fuifer them to fund
their certificates with the general government.
I believe it will Be found, on experience, most
convenient to the creditor, and least expensive
to the people, for the creditors, to fubferibe to a
loan with the general government. This, how
ever, will reft in a great measure upon the in
dividual states. Two taxes will be more, expen
sive to collect than one ; and if money is to go
through two hands, iaftead of one, in general it
is attended with a double charge.
It is said, that the bill will,offer a new field
for —It is polfible that to a certain
degree, there may be weight in the observation ;
but after the experience we have had, the hold
ers of certificates will not be eufily imposed up
on—and it the certificates of the individual
states would be equalized, I am led to believe,
that it would be ol'l'ervice to the community.
They mijjht, in a confiderabie degree, a<Sl as
a medium in commerce, and in the transfer of
property : but whilst they remain at different
values, they will be mere objects of specula
tion. - 4-
I regret exceedingly the great inequality of
Fortune, which has arisen among citizens, by
the speculations in our paper; but in a great
and mighty revolution, fofne partial evils mud
be expe<sfced, to obtain a general good. We are
bound to pay our debts.
I do not think that a large national debt is a
blefling, but it is of high importance that the
government which is in debt (hould so dispose
of it, as to do as little injury as possible, and if
the fame is practicable, produce a partial good.
In Penafylvania our affairs appear to be in
the highest Itate of prosperity
The farmer compenfatcd for his labour—
1 ne mechanic every where fully employed
and amply paid—
Commerce ilourilhing.
Objections have been made against the law ;
Yet I imagine if it is pubhfhed, and the reason«
or enacting it known, the public opinion of
the state i represent, will be in favour of it.
If wcpafs die ad thisfeffion, we shall save
the hext Congress from much trouble and per
plexity. We adt now upon principle—without
knowing how the balances will operate. If the
creditor and debtor dates were known, jt would
be found exceedingly difficult to reconcile the
fcveral interests.
Remember the Representative bill—the go
vernment had like to have been dissolved, on
account of the various interests.
Much has been said about the interelled mo
tives of members. I may here fay that Ido not
belong to that class called Aristocrats (if such
there is anion« us). I have always supported
the Rights of the People, according to the best of
my judgment and abilities. 1 have ainioft in
every instance received their approbation of my
public co»du<st. 11l the present que ft ion lam
not inore interested than any other citizen—4
have no certi6cates, 1 am no public creditor of
any fort. I mean to a& upon j»riitciple-~juiii
no>* vote for the passing of the biH.
(Debate td he continued.)
Wednesday, January 30.
William Hindman, Esq. member from Ma
ryland, in the place ef Joflipa Seney, Esq. ap
peared, was qualified, and took his feat in the
House.
The petition of Gcorgs Brown was read,
praying compensation for difabdity, in confe
quence of a wound received in the fervicc dur
ing the late war. Referred to a fele<2: committee.
The petition of Patrick Dennis, commander
of the revenue cjitter for; the diftriiS of New-
York, was read, praying- an augmentation oj'
the pay of the officers and crew of feid cutter
Referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
A representation was read from sundry of
the Printers and Booksellers of the City of -Phi
ladelphia, praying that the duties on Royal, Me
dium and Demy Printing Paper, may be taken
off; also on imported Rags. Refered to the fe
leifl committee on the petition of the Rope
makers of Providence, R. I.
A petition of sundry persons, officers and folr
diers of militia employed against the Indians,
under Gen. Clark, from the state of Virginia,
was read and rcfered to a committee of the
whole.
A petition of John Foulke, an officer in the
late continental array, was read and referred to
the Secretary of War.
On motion of Mr, Greenup, the refolutioni
of the Legislature of the (late of Kentuckey,
communicated a few days since, werereferred to
the committee of the whole on the state of the
Union.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill to
regulate claims to invalid pensions, were taken
info confidcration Being
It was morcd,,that the bill lliould be re-com
mitted to a committee of the whole.
This motion was objedled to, as it would set
the whole business afloat, and might in its con
sequences preclude the Senate from an opportu
nity of receding from their amendments, and
agreeing to the bill as it pa (Tod the House.
In answer to this objection, it was said, that
the amendments involved an entire new princi
ple, a principle which had not been discussed in
the House ; and that is, they make a diflin&ion
in the lituation of those invalids whose cases
have been decided on by the Secretary of War,
and that of the persons whose claims have been
examined by the judges. The cases of the latter
are not recognized by the amendments.
The motion for re-committing was carried in
the affirmative, and the fubjeft made the order
of the day for to-morrow.
Jn committee of the whole—on the bill to a
mend the acsl to promote the progress of ufeful
arts Mr. Steele in the chair.
The committee proceeded in the difcuflion of
the bill, as far as the 7th feiftiorr—they then rote?
and reported progress.and the House $d •,
JourriecC
THURSDAY, Jan. 31.
A petition of Dirk Van Ingen, a surgeon of
the late army, was read—and laid 011 the
table.
A bJI to authorize the Comptroller of the
Treasury to fettle the account of Thomas
Wiihart, late a Lieutenant in the army of the
United States, was twice read, and commit
ed for to-ipoiTow.
The petition of Brown and Francis, mer
chahti, ps Providence, prelijnted by, l&r.
Bourn, was'read, praying that tbey loaypt)
Allowed thi drawback on 9 quantity.of gin;
and. cod-filh exported, rf&twithftanding some•,
deleft iri the formality of tHeir vouchers p.rov- ■
ing tbe'landing and fate of saul articles iri* a
fj reign port—referred to the Secretary of the'
•TVealory.
'A bill to reimburse H. E. Lutterloh, was
reported by Mr. Grove, read twice, and com
mitted for Monday next.
The report of the Secretary of the Trea
sury oh the petition of Jacob Bell, was read,
and, on motion, referred to the committee of
the whole house on Tuefcl&y next.
'irecommittee of the whole, on the bill in
asMid-tfte a<ft to promote the progrefsof
St»rfe in the chair.
Thefeventh fettion was read—forne amend
ments were proposed, but disagreed to.
A motion was made to itrike out the Bth
fe&ion, for the pnrpofe of substituting ano
ther—which should provide, that all interfer- .
ing claims for patents should be determined
at the option of the parties, either by the Se
cretary ps State, or by arbitrators, &c.——
This motion gave rife to some debate—it was
at length moved to amend the motion, by
linking out all the words after " Secretary of
State"—this motion was not agreed to.—Va
rious other amendments to the motion were
moved, and la ft, it was finally agreed to the
followiag modification :—That interfering ap
plications Jor patentsjhall be determined by the Se
cretary oj State; or, ij all parties require it by ar
bitrators, &c.
The motion for ftrikins out the Bth section,
and inferring the amendment, was and
agreed to.
The committee finifhed thefljfcuflioo of the'
bill—they then role and reported the fame with
amendments—which were laid on the table.
A mcfTage was received from the Seriate by
Mr Otis, their Sccreiaiy, informing the House,
that the Senate have considered the amendments
to the bill for regulating coins, and for other
purpolVs, and have concurred in the fame with
an amendment to the last amendment of the
House. He tlfo informed the House, that a
letter, dirc&ed to the President and Congress of
the United States, signed Leuruk, had been
read in the Senate—-whUh he was dirc&ed to
bring to the House.—The mciTage was laid on
the tabic.. Adjourned.
283
' FRIDAY*, Feb. r
The letter signed Lebrun, lent from tire
Senate yesterday, was read, a"nil Tpfbrred to
the Secretary of the Treuluiy—it contained
a representation, that the heits of a French
oi.icer in the service of the United States, hcri
not received the compensation to which they
ar e entitled—which the writer fupp'oles had
been remitted, but is retained in the hands
°* the hanker in Europe.
Tire amendment of the Senate to the bill
to regulate foreign coins, and tor other pur
pnfes, r.'as agreed tp by the Hou'e.
Mi*. Gregg presented the petition of Robert
Lyon, a Lieutenant m the iate army, praying
compenfktion for services as a volunteer af
ter lie had resigned his commiffipn—read a , n4
referred to the committee of the, whole o*»tbe
Mote of the union.
Tiie amendments-to the bill to amend tie
the ast, entitled an ail to .promote the pro
gress of ufeful arts, were taken into consider
ation—fome amendments being made to these
amendments—the whole were agreed to; ad
ditional amendments were proposed; among
others,
Mr. Murray moved to add the words " being
citizen or citizens of the United States," after
the words pcrfin or pe+fons— the objett of which
is, to prevent: foreigntrs from obtaining patents
Mi this country for inventions which they have
already obtained patents for, in Europe; by
which means the citizcns of the United States
might be prevented from obtaining prtetits for
the.some, <vf similar inventions.—This motion
was agreed to.
Mr. Kittera footed to reduce the period
for which patents should be granted, from
fourteen to ten years—this motion was nega
tived—. The bill was then ordered to be en
■g rolled for a third reading to-morrow.
In committee of the whole—on the amend
ments of the Senate to the bill entitled, an
an: to regulate claims to invalid pcnfions—
Mr. in chair—Two of the amend
ments were agreed to, the others rejected—
The committee rose and reported
ly—the House-adopted the report of the com
mittee of the whole.
The report of a feleft committee on the pe
tition of James Warrington, was read, and
laid 011 the table.
Mr. Fitzfimons pre fen ted the petition of
James Montgomery, commander of the Re
venue Cutter stationed in the bay of Dela
ware, in behalf of himfelf and the officers and
crew of said Gutter—referred to the Secreta
ry of the Treasury.
A petition of the manufacturers of cordage,
&:c. of the city of Philadelphia, was referred
to a feleft committee.
Adjourned till Monday.
Philadelphia, Feb. 2.
.F've Hundred Dollars is offered for appre
bending the man who robbed the Southern
Mail on Tuesday morning Jaft. He is de
. (ti ibcd as a fiender man, 5 feet iq
inches high.—The portmanteau was found,
ajid some of the letters torn and scattered
*bout.
arrangement !ri Boston for celebrating
tße Inccefles of France over the enemies of
the Revolution, on the 24th ult. confided of a
I procelfion thro' theprincipalparts of the town,
of all ages and conditions; an Ox roaftec}
whole—a Civic Feast in Faneuil-Hall and
other'places—and tables spread in the street,
for. th® poor to partake «f, gratis—colori
!.-»«ted— Runs fired—military companies pa.
ruded—»Nalional Cockades worn—and a bal-
loon let <»(£ bearing in large Lr
bi*ty and E<jyAUTY, and the Flag of the
United States.
Net amount of Dunes on Spirits dilt'lled and
removed from the distilleries in the diftrift of
Rhode-Island, for one year, commencing on the
Ift July, 1791, and ending 011 the 30th Jun«,
'79*> 53>»7» dollars 53 7.2 c cents.
Amount of Duties 011 Spirits diflilied within
«he fame period, artd not removed from the
pifttllctiej, 6,595 dollars 7 2-«o cents.
Total aaioum tA- duties for one year, 59,866
dollars 80 9-20 cents.
Account of Shipping owned and chartered
front the Port of New-London, Conne&icut:
Ships
B<ique
4 Schooners 30
t Sloops 47
Brigs 34
Horses, mules, and cajtle exported from the
above port for the year 179 a to 1793 —
Jan. sth, to Jan. sth,
Lall year, 91 a 92,
Shott drip'd for tlie year J792, is 1833
COMMUNICATIONS.
A writer in the National Gazette is of opi
nion, that the people should riot tleft men to
office who maintain principles inconsistent with
the nature of tbe government. He fays, it would
be absurd to trufl the fox with oar poultry, or
the wolf with our lambs. The fentimcnt is cer
tainly in ft. We take it for certain, that the
writer intended to express his idea of the ex
treme unfitness of cnttufting an high federal of«
sice to an antifederaliil of such implaeable pas
sions as Gov* C •
The National Gazette has an aiticle from a
ctoriefpondent, which fupp»>fes the people of
Coone&icut to be inclined towards monarchy.
The writej Ims not given his reaions in support
of the opinion. - But in such a moment, us con
cern, it is fit to consider the danger of the cafe.
Lord (hip?, it is agreed, arc the forerunners of
monarchy. Now Conne&icut is divtded into
Lordships. Those who have no: fcen the state,
will.he surprised to hear, that »t is full (if Lords
of Manors. The rights of these Lords to their
Manors, and over them, are of the Aristocratic
genus. For eacfvof these Lords luppofes him
felf fnlly juftifted in driving the people out of his
po(lc(soQs. keeps all the good things to
bimTcU and his family fcnd and'fco! a
foul J. 5 fuffcred to ride his horfc or gather hi*
crops agamft his will. Theft: exclusive lordly
pr.vilejes a.e truly (hocking* to thofc who ab
hor lurh lordships, 'nil whojullly desire to have
ihem Ih a red m common.
The extreme ignorance «>f the people in that
State, has piobatoly prepared them for this de
graded lit ion. For men iruly enlightened
as to the ir right to eujoy the earth in coinmon,
would !on£ ago have abolifh<a th?i proud*arif
tocraty. They howiver in that Stale do r»oc
know what ii is to be born again mo a new po
litical world. They tven dunk the. federal
coirftuuuon»the belter for being djvided into
three branches. They difttuifc and defptfe as
fcypocrrtrs and knaves the iufp ifgif 'qfoimers of
ouf\ corrupt fend abominable government,, whn
would reform <js into a Hate of nature. Ac
cordingly they i/icline to chul'e men into offecc
under the Coiiftiiutioti, who wowlcj not deikiuy
it by treachcry and lies. They keep t»j> schools,
and so much the woift—fo* their chjldten are
taught ihe old-fafhioned and damnable hereftea
which inculcate order—tefpift lor ruler®—the
rights and duties of man—to reverence the reli
gion of their fathers, to follow virtue thein
fcK-es, and to refpell those who do so. Thus
oven in youth opinion Tivets her chains oil the
mind ; and nothing is to be hoped for from
Cooncfticut—but as they have Lords already,
and such general ignorance that our initiu&ion
ts thrown away upon them, we mnil leave them
to {heir evil and perv,erfc ways. If .however
they (hould run mad, and set up a K,ing, it will
be time to interfere and try him for his life.
o<T"_ f tticus Jha/l appear in eur next.
6 per Ger.tr, x «r lQ
3 per Cents, xi f s
Deferred, 12 y 2
Full /hares Bank U..S. 59 per cent, prem
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
February ift, 1793.
WHEREAS foreigners holding Stock in
Ihe SanK of the United States may pre
fer receiving their Dividends in Europe, to
ceiving them in America,
RESOLVED, That any proprietor of the
Capital Stock of the Bank of the United States
residing in Europe, Hiail be entitled to receive
either in London or in Amiterdam, the half
yearly dividends which may be declared there
on—in London at the rate of one pound fieri ing
for every four hundred and forty-five ceiUs, or
in Amsterdam at the rate of orte guilder current
money for every forty cents and four mills—:he
dividend declared in January of each year, to
be paid in London or Amsterdam on the fe.-
cond Monday of July following—and the divi
dend declared in July of each year, to be paid in
London or in Amllerdain on the lecond Mon
day of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to the declaring of any Dividend, so to be
paid'.n London or in Amiterdam) (hall give au
thentic notice to the President and Directors of
■1 lie Baak at which of the said Cities he will re
ceive the said Dividend;
War Department,
J A NUAR Y 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the funis to which they are entitled for fix
months of their annual pcnfion, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the 51 h day ot March »793, will be paid on
the (aid day by ihe Commiflioners of ihe Loans
within the states refpc&ively, under the usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment must be ac
companied by the following vouchers :
ill. The certificate given by the Hare, fp'eci Ty
ing that the person poflVfltng the fame i* in fuel
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as such, he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came belore me, one 6f the Jufticrs
of the county of in the Hate of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in J»?s pwfTrfljon was gw
en, of which the following it a copy (the Ccr
tificate given by the state to be icciteri) Tire
he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the
time he was disabled, and that he now refines
jn the and county of and has refuted
there for the last years, prcvicij to which
he resided in
In cafe an Invalid ftinuld apply for payment
by an attorney, the said
certificate and oath before lecilcftftiroduce
a special letter of attorney t<» the fuU
lowing form :
I, A. B. of CMWyTof Jfate at
do hereby constitute and appoint Q. O. of
my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my penfinn tor fix months, ti an Invllid
of the United States, from the 41 h d«y of Sep
tember 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
1 793-.
55 70
74°3
Signed and Sealed
in the Pretence of
Acknowledged befde me,
Application* of executors and administrators
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their fefpeftive offices, and also of the time th*
Invalid died, whose pension they may claim.
By Command of the Pirfident
of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
The Pt inters in the refpedive States are re
queued to publish the above in their Netvfpapers fer
the Jpace oj 2 months.
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITT LOTTERY,
May be h»d at SAMUEL COOPER'j Feny.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
By th< President and !>ire#Trr*.
JOHN KEAN, iajktcr.Federal City.
THE. Subscriber will convey forever, by
good and fuificieottdeed, Thirty Lots in
th« City of Wafliingtoii, fitaated on South
Capital Street, to any man or compMy of
men—provided thoy will «g«-»e to erefl there
on ami fitfiicient brick hou r , , within
three year; from the date hereof.
DANIEL CARROLL, ofDudd'wgtor.
CityJ Wajkington, Dtt. 3«,179*-
BT llie Conuniiliooeii app6ini«J w prepare
l i)u- P'J&iic Building, 4cc. wiihin the City
of Wiftitotfoo, tor ihc recrption of Congress
«>t<lfor®cft jenniafnt tbe ye»'
Übit-i
A LOTTERY
fOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
JO.OCO Ticket! at f dollars »re 350,000 4ulUr«.
LIST OF PRIZES, -»i*.
1 Suprrti Hotel, Wiib b«b», {
OM tioufej, tcc.Sa. W C*>ft 5
i• C«ftt friie'
1 ditto
t ditto
l ditto
a ditto
10 ditto
ao ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
5,000 are
1,000
s°°
ioo
5°
*&
20
10
15,000 ditiu
r.
5«,737 PfUes
33,263 Blanks
$0,000 . .
The Cole uefign of this Lottery being to facib
|9tr other improve Hit wii\o jttbcr #hh <s»fPuo»*c
Buildings— it is tbr particular desire of the Com
miflioncrs that these mav be efie&ed with as
from the Prizes as poffihle—how
far their endeavors may be atifwered, the Scheme
of the Lottery will derfconftrate. The keys of
the Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to
the fortunate pofleffor of the ticket drawn a
ajjainft its number.
Ail the other prizes will be paid, without
dedudion, in one month after the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Wafhingcon, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9th of September next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Tickets mav be had of Col. IVm. Dickens, Citv
Treafurrr of Washington ; of MeHVs. James Wcjl
£9 Co. Baltimore ; of Mr. Peter Oilman, Boston ;
and at such other places as will be hereafter
published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the be ft Plan of an elegant and con*-
venient HOTEL or INN,' with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if presented
ft or bejerc the 10th of April next; and a pre
ference will be giv< n to the Artist for a Con
tract, provided he he duly qualified to
torn pleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be created, will
be a coiner lot of about yO by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, &c. Se£lions and
estimates of the e~penfe will be expelled
with the elevations, occ. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars mud be regarded by the Arehite£t as the
utmost limit in the exprnfe intended tor this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the afiaiis of the City.
January 19.
To the Public.
THE Subfcribcrs having been appointeJ a
committee of the Board of the Trustees of
the Univerfny of North-Carolina, for the pur
pofc of receiving proposals trom such gentlemen
as may intend to undertake the inftru&ion of
youth in that inflituiion, take the opporiunity
of making known to the public their wiih that
such gentlemen (hould fignify their inclination
Co the (übfcribcis.
The objects to which it is contemplated by
the Board to turn the attention of the flud nis,
on the full c-llablilhment, arc—The lludy of
Languages, particularly die Englifti—Hiftory,
ancient and modern—the Belle-lettrcs— Logic
and Moral Philosophy—the knowledge of the
Mathematics and Natural Philolophy—Agricul
ture aod Botany, with the principles of Arthi*
tc£lure.
Gentleman conversant in thcfe branches of
Science and Literature, >nd who can be well re
corotncrvlcd, will receive very hahdfome encou
ragement by thj, Board. The exercifcs ol the
inflitiui'W as early as pofiible
after the completion oi the buildings ol the Uni
verfuy, which are to be enntradrd for immedi
acy- • SAMUfcL ASHE,
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAYE,
DAVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLES.
£25 ep2m
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or between Providence
and linfton, a very small TRUNK, covered
with feal-flcin of a reddifti colour, with white
loots. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Carolina State Notes, and a few of the
State of Rhode-lfland ; with other papers,which
can only be serviceable to the oroprictor. The
S<ate notes are cheeked -at the offices from whence
they ifined. Any pcifon producing the Trunk
(with its contents) to JOHN MARSTON, of
ftofton, WILLIAM HALL, of Providence,
Melfra PATKRSON and BRASHER, New-
York, cr Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, ftiall receive the above reward, ox for any
part of the orwpertv, One Hundied Dollars.
Boston, Nov. 28
TO liE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold—
gradtnrrd according foLaw—Blank ManifcOs—
And Blanks for the various Powers of Attorney
cefiary in tranfa&inft Bunncfs at the Treafuiy
•r Bank of the the United States.
Insurance Company.
AT a general lireting (fcy adjournment) if
the Insurance Company of Norlh-Ame/ica,
on Wednefdav the i6th inftaot.
It wis Refolvcil,
THAT the lullalments \yhich, according to
Ihe Cooftiiuiion, wilt h«camc due oo llic (econd
Monday of July and January nrxt, or either of
them, may he pait* by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder l'o paying,
iuch instalment, of indj.lii>cntij Iliad receive a
proportionate Oiiirc of the Dividends thereafter
to be made, calculating such (hare from, the firft
day of the month fucccediog luch payment* ro
fprflivdy Extti& from the Minutes,
EBEN. HAZARD, See'ry.
P>i!!adHph';t. -J.
bank g f the united states.
rHAT ilie Ca(hier be pinhoritVd to rcctrve
from the propiicior of »ny number nf com*
plea fhates, such Certificates, not 'n h'.s own
name, a» he may be the propi ietor of; and after
c»ncelliujr the fame, toiffuc a new Certificate or
Cettificite* in lieu thereof, in the name of luch
proprietor. ,
Rksolvid, Thai in all future Iranslers of
compleat Chares in the capital stock ot the Bank,
the Certificates of the shares transferred be can
celled, and a new Certificate or Certificates r.e
issued in the name of the transferee orpurchalcr.
Risoiviv, That the Certificates in futuie
issued, be for one or mote fl-.arei, as the pro
prietor may requefl; and the new Certificate or
Certificates shall be ol corrcfpondent numbers
with those re lieu of which thev arc issued.
epgw JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
50,000
25,000
20,0C0
15,000
10,000
10,000
10.000
iO,oco
10,000
10,000
10,000
so,ooo
150,000
Dollars 350,000
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
PaiL*on.miA, JaUuary 7,: 793.
NOTICE is hereby given, that theie will ' c
paid at the i>;.nfc, alter the 17'h idftsoV ~
the Stockholders 01 their Reprefennnvec
authonz. d, tin. following loM"> being flie Du.-
dend declared (or the laftfi* months, viz.
For each (hire bearing dividend Irom the ill
of July, Sixteen Dollars.
For each (hare bearing dividend from the lft
of Augufl, Fifteen DolUhi, 33 Cents.
For each (hare bearing dividend from the lft
of September, Fourteen Dollars, 67 Cents.
For each (hare bearing dU idend Irom the tft
of October, Fourteen Dollars.
For each (hare bearing dividend from the lft
of November, Thirteen Dollars, 33 Cents
For each (hare bearing dividend Irom the id
of December, Twelve Dollars, 67 Cents.
For each three-quarter (hare, Twelve Dollars.
By order of the President and Direflnm,
3 W JOHN KKAN, Cashier.
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful situation on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of dirc&ion towards the Federal
Cuy and GcorgeTown.in Full view of each place,
commanding v pra r pe&alth£_riv*r Mjaeet,*
cduntry ot Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying di
reflly on the river, will be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-story framed
dwclling-hbufe, neatly finished, a kitchen, office,
brick smoke-house and dairy, two-story framed
bam, a well of excellent water, and aa ice
houte, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
ceflarv improvements ; the whole of the land
enclofcd with posts and rails, ten or fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its
contiguity to those three towns mud render it »*>
obj-& worthy the attention of any person who
wifbes to invest money in a property that mult
enhancc in value, in proportion 10 the rapid in
crease of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central situation to each place. The Potowmsck
at this spot has a fine deep Ibore and harbour,
capable of receiving veflels of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be creeled here to the Citv of
Washington and the Maryland Chores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.— Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which will futt well to supply the above in
wood and timber. The title may be seen to the
above property, which is indisputable, and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, living
on the premises.
RAN away on the 25th instant, a likely Ne
gro Man called Laac, about twenty-three
years oid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made fellow, fond of talking, has a large
mouth, and shows his teeth very much when
talking ; had on when he went away, a brown
linen shirt, a (hort white kersey over jacket with
a very high collar and plain breast, with buttons
which appear to have been very gay ; a pair of
white kersey bretches, a pair of while knit yarn
(lockings, a pair of (hoes'with firings in them,
and a coarfc hat ; all the above clothes are al
most new. Said Negro was fprmeily the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas, late of Kent
County, near George« Town Cross Roads, dt j
ceafcd, and has for Several yean been emploved;
in that neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr,
Maxwell, and lately by MeilYs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, which business he is
well acquainted with, and is what he prefers;
and has been engaged drivings waggon from
said Cross-Roads to Duck-Creck, &c. until
August last. I expect he will make his way [or
the neighbourhoods ot Georgt-Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
waid will be paid if delivered to me in this
place, or Thirty Dollars if fecQtcd in any goal,
so that I get him again. He is an aitiul Icliow,
and when taken, will make his escape, unlets
particularly fecurcd.
eptf.
Talbot County, Maryland, Dec. 28, 1792,
Resolved,
BALDWIN DADE
ep 2 m
December t tth t 1^92
30 Dollars Reward.
EAST o N ,
OWEN KENNAKD
284
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
StokfciUr, at the Stvnc-Houfe, i» Second jlrcct.
Phi ladslphia,
VOLUME VII, or
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS,SCIENCES,
AND
MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
Vn a Plan intirciy m •"
by which
THE Ditfekimt SCIENCES AND ARIS
arc digelted into the form of Drflmtt,
TREATISES on. SYSTEMS :
COMPREHENDING
THE H'.ftorv, Theory, »nrt Praflice, of earh,
according to the Latest Difcovenes and im
provement : and full Explanation! given of the
various detached parts of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural and Artificial Objects, or to
Matters Ecclcfiaftical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, See. Including Elucidations of the molt Im
poitaut 1 opics relative to Religion,Morals,M >n
ners, jrnd the Oeconomy of L»fe : together with
a Description of all the Countries, Cities, p> in
cipal Mountain*. Seas, Rivers, &c. throughout
the World; a General Hiftoiy, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empires, Kingdoms,
and States; and an account of the Lives of the
moll Eminent Pcrfons in every -Nation, from the
earliest ages down to the prefeni times. Com
piled from the writings of the best authois, in
fevcral Languages ; the most approved Dict'ona
ri"e»>, as well of General Science as of particular
branches ; the Tranfadions, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned focietres, both at home and
abroad—the MS. le&ures of eminent profeiloft
on different Sciences : and a variety of original
Materials, furnilhed by an exteofive Coirelpon
dtnee. . .
The Seventh Volume contains a description
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer* Exchange, kxpe
rimcnral Philosophy, System of farriery, Feudal
system, Fire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Foffiis, history of France, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Glass,
&c. with a variety of articles in natural nili"ry,
biography and miscellanies. Illufliated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplate*.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a iuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast lor the pu» polc) which
will beoccafionally renewed belore they con
tract a worn appcarance.
11. The work, is furniftied in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
of tftte whdte volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ttfn dollars to be paid on fub
fcribmg, the volumes or half-volumes fini(hed
to be paid for when delivered, the priceofOne
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
wt>rk will be delivered unlcfs pajd for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in l*hiladelptiia : which by
tar exceed in number those given in any other
fbiemific di£io»irry, A: the fi4o£e pub
lication will be delivered an elegant trontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expe&ed the work will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
(pf Those who with to become poffe(Tors of
thisvaluablc -work will pleafcto be early in their
applications, as the fubfeription is nearly clofcd.
Jan. 23.
A New Post-Road.
HAVING been defued to eftabhfh b poft
road from Reading, in the state of Penn
sylvania, to Williamfburg, at the Great Forks of
the Genefte river, Notice Ifr hereby given, th.tt
proposals will be received at the General Post-
Oficf, for carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Williamfburg aforefaid, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading and the town of
Northumberland ; Irom the latter place to Loyal
Sock creek ; thence to Lycoming creek ; thence
in the new road to ihe Pai*ted Post, on Tioga
river; and thence to Willtamfburg.
The propolaK will be received until the ijtk
of March next, inclusively ; the carriage of the
mail to commence within One month after-
wards,
NectlTary Poft-Offices are to be edabliflied on
the route, and such peifons appointed Post
masters as the Contra&or shall name, and the
Poftmaftei-General approve.
Within three months after the carriage of this
mail is commenced, the Contractor is to state to
the Poftmalter-General the days and hours of its
arrival and departure at and from the principal
Pott-office?, which experience Ihall prove to be
most cohvenicnt; and thereafter ihe mail is to
be delivered at the refpe&ive Poft-ofßces at the
hours so fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted,
on,penalty of one dollar tor each hour's delay ;
and for the non-performance of a trip, the Con
tractor to forfeit twenty dollars.
The terra of the contrast cannot exceed eight
years. During its continuance the Contra&or is
to receive the rates of poilage by law ellablilhcd,
and to have the exclusive privilege of carrying
tetters and packets for hire, such excepted, as
shall he sent by a special inefTenger, 01 which are
or fliall he by law declared free.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P.M.G.
Gcurat PoJl-OJficc, Jan. 22, 1793.
THE Officers of the late New-Jeifey line are
requclted to meet at the Houf«? of James
Drake, in New-Brunfwick, on Thurlday the
seventh day ot February next, at the hour ol Ten
in the morning, to take into conhderation the
application of different lines of the late army,
now before the Congress of the United States.
January i6ih, 1793.
A large Cellar to Let,
Sujfiucnlly capacious to fiore ftvcral hundred bands.
Enqu-.ic oi ihc Pki nt er.
.. A MERlCANMUSEL'M.f.omidccmmrmc
•TVmcnt m January i 787, 10 Juneijq,
eleven vols. Price, neally bo„i,d .„d
seventeen dollars ana three fifths.
■ This work, which is now cor.tiuftrdog w
jpr;md plan, containing the btft puccs piAl*ft„i
[lot and agariift the pioteedrnga
wrll befouiid to contim at as pm t tin.,l?
'of political,agricultural,
as auy ever pubiilhcd in AiMrici, P«l>»p»i»!Z
;o<ie work arc so many valuator doc yrrtmfl
iin K the history of this Irtfcd tu
Hn Excellency the PrcGde ot of tUc WritfedSuuV,
has declared of it, that " ajpnore V,Unn
•plan has never been undertaken in America n «f
;one more deserving of ptiblic
Tilt fubfeription it two dolfafs and a half £ ; r
*ann. Gentlemen in the country who wilh j 0
be supplied with this woik, are reqiwfted tn mL
cofflflirffi'on to friends in the city lo ftrbferiVftik
and receive Tt" Any of the back uumtat
may be had in order to complex-fru.
2. Smith's Lettersto Married Women,on Kuril
ing and the management of Children.
" We recommend ihefe letters to the prruM of
those to whom they are particularly addreffe<t."_
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. ict — Price, bound
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding— £0 cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—so ctnti.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mifi
More'.s E flays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pcnnin *.
ton's Advice, Marchionels of Lambert's Advice
Swift's Letter to a newly married Ladv,Mrs.Clia
pone on command ot Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, PrttetifS.
7. Smith's liiftory of New-York. PiiceadoL
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moial Science, by Jamesßeaf-.
tie, 1.l d. DTofeiror of moral phitafophy and
logic in the Mariichal College, Aberdeen—pr He
thiee-fourihs of a dollar. Ol this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 6g, p. 628) fay: •« \\' e
have ffcen nothing on thci'e fubjr&s more plain
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univetfiiy in Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-filths of a
dollar.
n. N:'cker'sTreatife on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.— Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination ot the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 3:hs ot a dollar.
13. The Conftiiutions oi the fever?j United States,
with the Federal Conftilution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Pricethree-righths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths of
a dollar.
%f. The Do way Tranflalion of l«e Vulgate H>-
M'*, m cjuario—Price, elegantly bound and letjer
ed, 50/2.— plain v fix dollars.
1-&. X> Chn ft 1 Sf> T s
JOHN CUMMING,
JONATHAN RHEA,
books,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATHSW CAREY
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia. '
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
16. Garden of the SotiL Price half a dollar.
luirici
19. Think well on'f. Price a quarter dollar*
20. Chriftizn Economy. Price a fifih of a dollar.
21. Kiflory of Charles Gi andifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a doJlar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys— Price a third
a dollar.
23. Sel eft Poems, chiefly American—Price a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large affonrpert «f
Books, European as well as American edition?,
which he will dispose of on the nioft reafcnallc
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied iq
r he rnoft fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
t o such as purchafc quantities for public libraries
Q r to {ell again.
Stock Brokers Office,
Great Dock-street, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASK and SALE ok
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave 10 offer
his terviccs to his friends and others, in theline
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with their bufmefs, may depend upon
; having it tranfafted with the utmost fidelity and
d ifpatch.
Ordersfrom Philadelphia,Boflon.orany other
part of the United States will be ftriftly attend*
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
mo
RUN-AWAY
FROW THE SUBSCRIBER, THE 12'h APRIL)
A NEGRO BOY, named Zeb\ film and tall,
fiXteeri years old; came to Samuel Lipin
cot's at Bordcntown On the 15'h, laid his name
was Henry, and left that place the 27f h May.—
On the "?th day of June, .he was taken up »*»
Bucks County, and carried before a Maginrate,
said he was free, and that he lived on the SuU
quehannah—that a per fan by the name ot A la
ham Pr.aH, took him three days journey nom
home, and turned him ad rife with one dollar-
He asked the Justice for a pass to go to his fa
ther, and nothing appeared to the contrary
He lived with one Thomas Paxwcll till the 191 1
of this instant, and then made his efcane trom
him ; he called his name Peter 'johvjion—' a
on an old Grey Coating Round Jacket, me
with red i>aizc ;an old pa:r Lcatlur Br tCC ,vS '
and an old Felt Kat. Whoever takes op Hi®
Bo v,and brings h-jio to J a cos Mi its_B R ® au. o»
Srateri»*lfland, Avail receive TWENTY 1
LARS, with reafonabte charges, oaid by
IACOB MERSEREAU, Lieut. Co».
Dec op 1a w 6
PLA N S
Of THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOBSOy, CAREY, }OUNG,& CRUMHAMi-