m
&BZ&U J?w
A tJAHOXAL PAPER, PUBLISHED VVK DN ESP AYS AND SATURDAY* KY JOHN FENKO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILA DtLPH I.V
[No. 65 of Vol. IV.]
f)J vjjjt..
(mm
CONGRESS.
WEDNESDAY, January 1.
DsbAtb on Mr. Steele's motion for
the Reduction of the Military
Establishment of the
United States.
In Committee of the Whole. Mr. White
in the Chair.
Mr. Clark observed that by the debates
this day, it would appear as if it was de
signed to dilband the whole army, and to
give up the whole western country ; but
this is by. an mMDs the cafe; the object
is merely to reduce the number of the re
giments, not to dismiss a single man. He
supposed three thousand men would be
fufficient to contend with 1200 Indians;
the effect of the motion would be to (lop
recruiting ; —it is said the President is em
powered to disband the troops when he
thinks the public service will admit of it;
but this is a point of delicacy ; the law
provides for railing five regiments, the re
cruiting therefore will go on, unless per
haps the Legiflatuie (hail take some lleps
to prevent it. He therefore suggested the
idea of an address to the President of the
United States on the fubjeft.
Mr. Parker said, he was in favour of
the motion. It had been observed, he said,
that the President had it in his power to
disband the regiments; but he observed it i
wag not known what his sentiments are 1
on the fnhicdi. and therefore it. may be_,
highly pinker for this House to express
its opinion. Mr. Parker then fuppwted
his former affettion, that militia was su
perior to regular troops, especially such
as can now be obtained ; the belt men
cannot be* obtained, the war is unpopular ;
and ihetefore such men as turned out in
defence of the liberties of the country
cannot be enlisted. He adverted to vari
ous expeditions against the Indians, be
ginning with Biaddock's defeat. He no
ticed several actions during the late war
with Great-Britain, beginning with Btir
goyne's capture. He gave the militia the
principal credit for many ps our principal
and most brilliant fucccffes. He said, he
had no idea of a speedy peace with the In
dians ; but he exceedingly reprobated the
present fyfttm of prosecuting the war.
H« wm (or reducing the regular establish
ment to a number fufficient to gauifnn
the forts on the frontiers, and to give the
Prelident powertocall militia in such num
bers as he may think proper, and to strike
the enemy where the bed profpeft of suc
cess may appear.
Mr. Boudinot, after remarking that
the present difcuflion was merely a repe
tition of the various observations which
had been offered in the firft deliberations
on the befl mode of carrying on the Indian
war, said the majority determined on the
mode which had been adopted—For his
part he had been in the minority ; but the
the sense of the majority mull be fub
witted to; he therefore exceedingly
doubted the eligibility of deviating from
the system, and thus betraying an inlla
bility in the public councils. He advert
ed to tl»e existing Rate of Indian affairs,
the dnpofition recently discovered by
them to treat, and imputed the alteration
in the hoftilc appearance to the arrange
ments made by the United States to pro
secute the war: he therefore exceedingly
doubted the expediency of weakening the
public force at this crifij. He noticed the
interference with, and encroachment on
the Executive, which would be the con
fequeni-e if the measure (liould be adopt
ed. Tiie encrcafed expences occalioned
by the addition to the regular troops
were fully cuulidatcd at the time wben
'I'H"!?' n .ff to i ftVM'awri
Triiimrity For ever keep theii
opposition on foot, by bringing forward
the bulinefs in various (hapes ? He enlarge
ed on the ill policy of adopting the pro
pofitiou at the present moment, and said,
he hoped that nothing would be done to
derange a system which had becu the. re
sult of so much deliberation; on (lability
and firir.neCs, the eventual measures now
pur Cuing to bring about a peace, appear
j to be Cufpended.
r*
Mr. Willis opposed the motion. He
said he had been originally against railing
the additional regimeuts ; but the mo
tion, he conceived, went to such a re
duction of the defenfive force of the fron
tiers, as would leave them in a very ex
ppfed (ituation indeed. No gentleman
would fay, he prelumed, that two regi
ments would be fufficient to garrison all
the posts on the extensive frontiers of the
He had always be<»n of
opinion that volunteers and militia were
the bed species of force to be employed
against the Indians; but tho' he had been
opposed to the system adopted, yet he
now considered himfelf as differently situ
ated, and that it was a different cop.fi
deration to oppose a law before it is pas
sed, from continuing that opposition after
it is enadted : he hoped therefore, that
the motion would not be agreed to.
Thursday, Jan. 3, 1793
Mr. Steele, after adverting to the state
ments offered by the Gentleman from
Connedticntj and observing that they dif
fered from those which he had laid before
the House, said, in oider to remove eve
ry prejudice to the motion, he had been
induced to make from motives of regard
to the public good„ he (hould now more
particularly refer to the documents from
-wltewee-he had drawn his information.—
Mr. Steele then refeied particularly to
the several a£ts of appropriation—to prove
the jultnefs of his (tatements ; after he
had gone thro' with these, he obfeived,
that from hence it mud appear incontior
vertible, that the sums itated to have
been appropriated for thewat department,
were in fadt so appropriated—whether
the sums were expended or not, it re
mains for the gentlemen who controvert
those (tatements to (hew. He then (hew
ed that the whole sums were expended,
and monies called for to supply deficien
cies.
Mr. Wadfworth rose to explain—he
observed that he believed the gentleman's
statement just now delivered by him was
accurate—he did not mean to controvert
it. In hrsobfervations yesterday, he had
reference to the statement offered by the
gentleman in his fpecch when he brought
forward his motion which had been pub
lifhcd, and the accuracy of which, the
gentleman had not denied ; it was
that statement, Mr. Wadfworth said he
meant to controvert, and not the one now
offered by Mr. Steele.
Mr. Clark said he could not conceive
for what purpose this debate was spun
out to such a length ; he thought ihe
business might be very soon fettled by
proceeding to filling up the blanks in the
motion : he disapproved of the compari
sons which had been made between the
militia and the regular troops ; they had
both, at different times, behaved well,
aud both had perhaps been to blame.
Mr. Milledge rose in opposition to the
motion—he called the attention of the
House to the extenfivenefs of the fron
tiers of the country, particularly of the
State of Georgia : he noticed the con
duit of the Indians particularly on the
frontiers of that (late ; —the citizens of
Georgia adopted the constitution of the
United States, in hopes of deriving ef
fectual prote&ion from the Union ; have
they received that proteflion ? A treaty
has been formed with the moll formida
ble tribe on the frontiers—we have been
ainufed with expectations of their fulfil
ing the coirtraft on their part—but their
their treatment of Mr. Seagrove may
Saturday, January 12, 1 795-
257
so».i tSuK stto uwi"' l '
lent to running the permanent line.—.
Mr: Milledge then noticed the treache
rous conduct of the Indians on fcveral oc
cafious, and from the txtenfivenefs of the
frontiers, being more than 1500 miles in
extent—theirexcecdingly eipofed situati
on, &c.—He argued that the force ori
ginally intended to be raised, was so far
from being too great, that it is not ade
quate to the objtft; he was therefore
opposed to the motion. If any of-the of
ficers of government have embezzled the
public money, or have been guilty of
abuses, said Mr. Milledge, the way is
open plain to bring them to account,
and he (hould not think, that any member
of the legislature, knowing of such abuses,
who did not bring them before the public
tribunal, did his duty : He concluded by
faying, that as a defender of the rights of
his conitituents, by affording them aU
t£g m the- of "the go
vernment, he should vote againlt the mo
lion.
Mr. Findley. Sir, how far tlie
army is to be reduced,being a blank
in the motion before you, does not
come directly under debate, and
the re is a difference of opinion a
mong the gentlemen who i'uppoi't
the resolution ; the gentleman who
moved it, exprefled a design of re
ducing it to two regiments, and a
gentleman from New-Jersey (Mr.
Clark) proposes to reduee then) to
three, or to difcliarge none actually
enlisted ■, at any rate the principle
is open to debate.
J he difcuflions with refpedl to the
expenditure of the revenue, and
the comparative merits of the regu
lar forces and the militia, have been
nifficiently difcuiled ■, nt lf»0 «s tar
asnhey relate to the quellion under
conftderation, therefore 1 fliall pass
those fubjeifts at this time with only
one remark.
From the oblervarious of the gen
tleman who moved the refo)ution,t> e
firft and great objetft is, by disband
ing a great proportion of the ariny,
I o obtain money for the redemption,
of the redeemable part of the pub
lic debt. 1 agree with him that this
is an important and desirable ohjetft,
but we differ in this—that 1 take it
to be a secondary object. I consider
the defence of the union to be supe
rior to every other consideration ; it
was the firft realon for forming the
government, and claims the firlt pi o
vifion aud earlielt attention from
those who govern.
However, the arguments which
have been deduced from the origin,
the management and inisfortunet of
the war claim my partioular atten
tion. ] hat the war exifled previ
ous to theprefent government is no
more denied ; thai it was the off
spring and remains of the war with
Britain is confirmed by fads which
will lung be had in melancholy re
membrance : but iince the com
mencement, it mult be acknowledg
ed that the war has changed its com
plexion, the carnage and depredati
on have been much extended, and
the reientment and union of the sa
vages greatly increased. Mow that
has happened is a proper fubjecl of
enquiry. Gentlemen in support of
the iefolution have pretty plainly
implicated the war department as
the source of these evils. Let it be
observed as one excellence of our
government, that all officers, civil
and military, are f'ubjert to legal
trial and punifhuieiu ; there is *no
officer so dignified in the United
States as to be out of the reach of
legal responsibility ; —and if, there
fore, there is delinquency, let it be
aliened boldly and examined to ef
fect. It is the members of the le
giHature only that are out of the
reach of trial and punilhincHt ; up
on these we have no hold, except
[Whole No, 587.]
op iiS fhor cii;.r:«-fer, {heir roiuTi
ence aild their imeieU:. his tlieje
giflature that is oft he most
fuprenie (overcign powtr. ') hough
I do not appear as 1 lie :"N|vr>cate of
any other department, yet it is to
the conducts and neglects of the le
giflai lire that J now call the attenti
on of the coin mil tee ; it is from that
quarter that we can dtaw the molt
ufeful cautions for our deciiion of
this queition, and our future con
duct ; and it is more generous for
ns to examine and improve upon our
own faults in the firft instance. I
haxe already observed that the new
Congieft found the uniun in a state
of war.
What exertions were made to pro
cure peace, or grant protection, is a
very iiatnrai enquiry, One regi
ment was employed by (he old
Congress to fgr.ard t!jfronsier ;
though this whs a force infuffieienc
for !he purpose, yet it i 3 to be con
sidered tlmt the then government
had not the command of revenue,
and the individual States had com
petent powers,and the command of
their own revenue ; the enemy was
not combined, nor so much df the
frontier diltrerted. But did this
most pre/ling object obtain the ear
liest attention of Congress, or the
fii A provision ? No it did not. An
ill defined law was enai'ted,empow.
ering the President to call out the
militia, before any militia law of
Congress existed ; the conftquence
was that though they could not be
compelled, yet a number of thole
who were called upon went to the
Miami villages with General Har
niar ; with thole and his own regi
ment, tie arrived at, and dell toyed
those villages, and if he had had but
two regiments of good permanent
troops with the aliiltance of a few
chosen militia, he could have secu
red a lodgment there, notwithdand
ing the misforttines of his fkirinifli
ing parties ; and peace would have
been the prqbable confeqtience ;
but as the rime of fei vice of the mi
litia had cxpited, if he had been
ever so fortunate he mult have re
treated as he did ; thus the sava
ges were ex;reinely irritated, the
lignal given for union, and a great
extent of frontier formerly in sup
posed security became the object of
more than a common degree of sa
vage vengeance. In this diftrefling
(ituation of our affairs, the next Itep
taken by Congress was to enact a
law for railing a second regiment,
and to enlist levies for fix months
at two dollars a month, andjcloath
ing designed for to last half the
year ; just fufficient to take them
to the wilderness, there to starve
with cold in the molt inclement sea
son of they ear. The fatal catastro
phe in which this campaign ended
need not beiepeated, there is no
danger of its being forgot ; that ic
has encrealed the union and cou
rage of the Indian;), and encoura
ged them to treat with the most in
dignant insolence our overtures of
peace, is evident front the fate of
the brave men who fell with the
flags i for whose families we have
been jult making provision. Per
haps it may be said, as has at least
been reported, that Congress 011)3'
enacted into laws the plans recom
mended by the war department ;
how true this is in all the instances
to which I have alluded I know rot ;
but at any rate it is no apology. We
have no right to calt our legislative
responsibility upon the Executive
department—this power for which
our character is exclufivrly refpon
fi'ole,cannot be transferred without
a breach of trufl. And for liielir
objects there was no other iitforma
tion necefl'ary but what was pofc
feffed by the lloufe. Congress knew
»knew ttait the wages were not a fuftcient en
couragement to procure £t men, they knew
it bore no reasonable proportion to the P rl "
of labor, at ieaft where the men were expect
ed; they knew that the time wai too short
for enlisting the men with such fconty encou
ragement, av.d for carrying on_ so di'.tant and
precariou an expedition, even ii no acci
dents or utifmaiiageineni were to take place ;
but cerrairfly accidents and mifmanapement
ought to be provided for in undertakings of
this nature; they know or might have known
that trifling with luch a war would naturally
excite the flame, and not quench it-
It cannot be pretended that resources were
wanting. Congreft received the public purie
with the government, and they very properly
foou rendered it productive. At an early pe
riod revenue* were found ; not only to pro
vide for the debts of the Union, for the dis
charge of which'they were bound by contract,
but alio made provision for the debts of the
individual .<tate% to do which thev were
bound bv 110 contraa ; and which are not yet
liquidated, nor their amount known. 1 can
not suppose this neg'ea was altogether owing
to inattention, for committees weru frequent
ly held on the state of the Union, and surely
the defence of the union was the firft subjeCt
which could present itfelf to their thoughts.
As no fufficient reason for this neglect has
ever occurred tome, 1 continue to view it
with surprize, perhaps others can better, ac
count for it. .
However, last session we were fufficiently
convinced of our error, the objeCt was fully
before us, as well as the plan proposed to be
pursued, and however we regretted the ex
pence, and evils Hill more to be dreaded,
from a {landing army, we from conviction,
provided adequate means, and now after
much of the expence is incurred, and the end
not accomplished, there is an attempt to with
draw the means : surely gertlemen have not
taken a full view of the fubjeCt.
Arguments have been drawn in favor of
the resolution from the flow progress ol t! e
recruiting service, and the inactivity of the
army last summer. On this subjeCt, I have a
verv different opinion. Let gentlemen for a
moment reflect upon the difficulties the re
cruiting service had to encounter. Ihe le
vies after a scene of arduous fatigue, endu
ring hunger and nakedness, many of them
were left rotting on the desolate sod in the
wilderness, and those who survived the horrid
carnage, returned with infinite hardships to
their homes, they with difficulty procured the
pittance allowed them by law ; their mouths
were filled with complaints, nor did they
alone complain ; and though the wages were
raised a dollar a month, yet even so, it was
not a fufficient encouragement where the
greatest number, and the best men were fought
for ; but this house are not to blame for this,
for we had agreed once, and again to Blake
the wages higher, but were overruled by the
other legislative branch. When gentlemen
maturely refleCt on those considerations, and
also that the spring was fat advanced, before
the recruiting service could commence, they
will with me rather be surprized that it has
succeeded so well; it is indeed beyond my most
sanguine expectations, and the men are not
generally of the most inferior kind, as has
been suggested.
With refpeft to the inactivity of the army,
the observations may have 111 some degree
arose from something expressed by me some
davs ago, I think on another subject.
X then said that the army which rendez
voused at Pitcfburgh had not undertaken the
defence of the frontier, and prevented the ne
cessity of militia service. That some of the
counties had been more diftretled by the ra
vages last summer, and the militia service
mo°re burthenfome than at any time since the
peace with Britain—that even the county
Where thev lav had to employ militia ; and
this is certainly true ; of the reasons for this
X have not been informed, nor am I accounta
ble for it. However, it is but reasonable that
I should offer such reasons as fuigeft them
fclves to me. It is well known in this house
that General Butler's having, according to
orders, Tent such of the levies as arrived ear
lv to the frontiers, and therefore afforded
n'eceJTary protection in time of harvest, was
much complained of, and assigned as a cause
of defeat, not only by delay, but want of dis
cipline, though I do not think it had that ef
fe<st ; yet probably to prevent complaints oi
this nature, the introducing discipline and m\-
litarv habits among the new raised troops may
have been judged preferable to the defence of
t'ie frontier ; prevailing desertions might
have had its weight; but though this might
be complained of with relped to thole op
prefTed with savage depredations and militia
service, yet certainly the army may be more
fit for the great objeCt of an expedition, Ctc.
From mv own observations I know that un
remitting industry has been used to promote
discipline among the troops.
But an argument of another natuie, and
which seems to have tlie greatest weight with
the gentlemen, has been often urged, I mean
the expence, and the danger of new taxes.
I, it poflible that we have not revenues fuf
ficient for the defence of the union > Suielv
everv other clami inuft g've way to this.
Let it not be said that a tax for onr own de
fence could not be levied ; the people would
cheerfully pay taxes for this purpole, though
they mi"ht think themselves opprefled by o
ther demands that are more amply provided .
for But a new tax is not necelfary for that
purpose: a surplus of exiftiug revenues are at
our d-fpofal, befidss the cftimates of the war.
It is true we designed to have availed our
s-lves of it to begin the extuiguifhinent of
o" ir debt, though we have been since told that
it is necefTary to be applied otherwise, and
we arc called upon to raise a new tax for t .at
purpose, not for the purpose of procuring
Lace. However anxiously I desire to pay oft
the debt, yet I am certain it would be an
unwarrantable policy to fubjeft the country
to deftructiun lor that purpose ; beiides, 1
believe the alternative proposed would even
tually encreafe the expenee.
We liave a particular plan in view in order
to accomplish peace, .3 that plan executed .
Is t.iat object obtained ?
I believe gentlemen know we cannot ex
plain fully on this fubjetf, as it involves con
fidential communications, and plans not lu.
mitted to puolic view ; but they ay that two
regiments are fufficient to garrison the exilt
ing forts. Surely they know that to. t Ham
ilton, Fort Knox", See. are not the objeas con
templated; nor would these 1 prelume be
kept for their own fakes, they cannot defend
our territory, nor make it tbe interest ot the
Indians to Ik at pe<ice. If we expert to ex
ist as a nation we mult defend the territory
which we have purchased, which we have
fold to othei s, and which uniortunatley «<)r
them we have encouraged others to fettle
upon. In this I prefmne the committee are
agreed, at least I hope so ; but it will be laid
the difference is about the means. We are
told that the militia are more fit for this kind
of war than an army ; let the army keep the
forts, and the militia defend the frontiers
where they reside, and carry on expeditions
against the Indians. Comparing the militia
and Handing army is to little purpose ; I have
known both the one and the other on fomeoc
cafions behave so as to deserve great c() j n ~
mendation, &: at other times behave very 1 . J
this depends greatly 011 circumstances, eac jJ
have their particular advantages, and each
iliay find too much employ ; there are situa
tions and circumstances in which the nulitia
are undoubtedly best, and there are other fix
ations in which a Handing have the ad
vantage. But when I lpeak ot militia Ido
not mean such as are called in classes » r " m
their families, and composed ot many that
have neither been accustomed to the wood",
nor arms, ar.d go out with reluctance, leav
ing all that is dear to them behind, and con
sidering the service as a grievous eppreffiou.
I know and feel these things- I have been
oftenerthan once outwith the militia. 1 mean
a fele<stion of the militia willing to go, and
experienced in the woods, and in molt of
the frontiers such men, or suitable arms do
not now abound; but surely for services of a
more permanent nature an inlifted army is
more suitable.
But do gentlemen consider the consequenc
es of throwing all internal defence, ar.d dil
tant expeditions, upon the militia ? Is it not
enough that they already stand as a piquet
guard to their brethren who live at ease ;
that they eat their bread in the fear of their
lives, and are frequently embittered with
the view of mournful incidents ; but that we
must lay a deliberate plan for encreafing the
number of their fatherlels children, and chlld
lefs parents ■
I recollefl, it has been said oftener than
once on this floor on former occalions, and is
still owned by members, that the states who
have frontiers ought to provide for their own
protection, and that the government of the
union ought to assist only in the last resort; in
(bort that protection ought not to be a com
mon cause. Such highly aotifederal senti
ments I cor.fefs I heard with surprise.
There a.e some members, however, more
jV'nerous and proraife to vote for a iulHcient
fumof money to pay the expense. I believe
these members are sincere ; but do gentlemen
contemplate to what iflue the principles would
lead ? Do they not observe that the fate of
the government is deeply involved in the de
cision ?—Perhaps I may be alked, did not the
ltates depend chiefly uppn their own exerti
ons for the defence of the frontiers m.der the |
old Congress i Yes, they did, and were better j
protected than since that period. But let it
be recollected that at that time the llates had
the command of their own resources, and the
laying and executing their own plans : that
tbe Indians were not so formidably
but that since, the states had not the power ot
retaliating, nor the means of gratifying with
presents, since the Indians have been solemn.
ly told to look away from the little fires of
the states, to the great fire of the union : they
have looked upon us a more formidable and
dangerous foe, and made their arrangements
accordingly, and European nations and emis
saries among them have improved upon the
circumstance, and excited and aided them in
their union and exertions.
If the militia are to be so much oppreflbd,
it must be under their state laws; the operati
on of our militia law has not been tried, and
the militia will naturally have more confi
dence in the laws of the state, ar.d be better
paid by them. If the people must undergo all
the risk of life and all the hardihips of war, in
carrying on a war which they did not coin
mence, nor have power to terminate, will
they not natui ally look from the government
of the union, to that of their own states ! and
will the state governments conduct a war with
their hands tied ? Will they not take theii
own way of conducting the war and of pro
curing peace i Surely they will, and the ge
neral government ought only to hope for obe
dience* and respect as long as it gives general
protection, which was the reason of its inflitu
tion. But if gentlemen were willing thus to
surrender the principles of the government,
they ought firft to put the frontier states in
as good a situation as the new Congress found
them ; when the Indians were not united, and
when they did not know that they could so
easily and compleatly defaat us.
Supposing that we appropriate a fufficient
sum of money to pay the frontier militia for
conducting the war of the union ; I ask who
are these militia ? is it those unfortunate few
whom we induced ho fettle at Marietta that
are to protect our extensive western territo
ry, against the united exertions ot all the west
ern Indians ? or is it the few scattered inha-
258
""" S"", »■ "*
:SS=SK—s-srsss
sAswSSi n* 0..«. Uj*
intention of even the members who have e.
preyed themlelves so. w hirh the
From the very inadequate p J •
militia have already rece.ved the
ty of obtaining it, however weU dJpoted W
members who propose it may be, theie is 1
r "round to confide in the
' amo'e especially when it is coiiltfered that
the Vxpenfe has been the argument most
dwelt upon by all the gentlemen-
Arguments however of another and more
important nature have been suggested in fa
vor of leaning the army. I
able disposition of our citizens and theprmci
Dies of our government ; in this lam heait y
L-eed, and were the argument upon original
around, and the measure optional, I would
doubtleft oppose an army ; but the qoefbon
Ho., whether we (hall begin a war or whe
ther we ihall have a standing army to aid the
foment in time of peace ; « that were
the cafe I would certainly be on the other fide,
but with us it is a question of nerftv n
nf choice, it is to procure a peace, and not to
procure a war; it is to protect, , t0
oppress or aid in govern,ng our citizens , I
know that standing armies have always been
sources of oppression and aids of tyranny; our
people may long be governed without such
aid s their situation will not admit oi abu.es
from standing armies, nor would the citizens
submit thereto. f
However when I observe the difficulty of
procuring money for the /upport of even a
neceflarv force, and the jealousy ot armies
so prevalent among the members; whatever
difficulties it may now produce, yet thr. ti. -
nofition augurs well towards the fecuitty ot
our liberties; when I also conf.der how anxi
ous the people rfthe United States and the
members of Coigrefs are for peace, and what
extraordinary exertions the executive has
made to preserve it; and when I also refLft,
that the next Congress will be a more full
and equal repre entation of the pecple s
efts and sentiments than we are, I am conii
dent the army will be discharged ss soon as
our afFairs'will admit of it. _
The profpefts we have ol peace are not ve
ry flattering, they by no means arise from the
good dispositions of the Indians towards us,
nor from the love of peace,but from thedread
of the power and permanency ol our force ;
take away those impressions and all our proi
pefts of peace vanifli; it may be reco.lefted
that the Six Nation Indians were our invete
rate foe-:, and would never listen to the voice
of peace until they felt our power, and we
have fufficient proofs, that their continuing
peaceable does not arise from their dispositi
ons towards us, but from their being so much
in reach of our power. Admitting that the
militia were in refpeft the best for fight
ing Indians,and thatwe could in justice throw
the burthen and risk of fighting wholly on
them ; yet this method would certainly length
en the war ; we have, and always had the
militia ; but they are not a visible force, the
strokes they make distress and irritate the
Indians, and when the expedition is over the
force disappears, and the Indians meditate
and too often obtain revenge ; the apprehen
sion of an army strikes them with apprehensi
ons of a permanent design, and convinces
them that it is their interest to have peace ;
the late murders of those who bore the en
signs of peace are an undoubted proof that the
profpefts of peace do not arise from any other
! motives than the dread of our force.
When I reflefton our having so lately been
convinced of the indifpenfible necessity ofraif
ing an army, and before it was poflible to ac
complish the object intended, that a motion is
made for leflening that force, I am truly sur
prised at the inconsistency to which it would
lead ; surely there is not such an instance to
be found in the history of nations, nor in the
acts of public bodies, and if it Ihould succeed
it would mark our councils in an extraordi
nary point of view. Howeve, so averse am I
to armies and so sensible of the evils they have
occasioned, that I gave a I'erious ear to the
motion, and maturely examined the circum
stances in which the cafe was involved. I
wilhed for reasons tojuitify my fapporting
thereof, but examination produced convicti
on of its impropriety.
The gentlemen doubtless have determined
from thefirft imprellion of the fubjeft ; more
minute investigation will convince themselves
of the bad policy of such an unrealonable
change of measures. I with great reluctance
was convinced of the necellitv of so great a
force last session, but even if I had been final
ly against it last feilion, I would nevertheless
have been for supporting that force in the pre
sent important crisis ; better by far we had
never made the law for raising the army than
to repeal it now.
The present Indian war is eifentially dif
ferent from any former one. When Britain
and France divided North America betwixt
them, if the emmiffaries of both excited thp
Indians to war, the power of both afforded
protection. When Britain became pofl'efled
of the Western posts, and many tribes of In
dians commenced a war, the British govern
ment conducted the war, tarried it into the
Indian country, and by the dread of their
arms procured a peace ; but the Indians were
not thenfupported by other powers. But in
the preieut war, the Indians who at that time
knew nothing of us, have combined to make
it a common cause ; and no superior power
interest tJierafeives in our favor, no, they
con«<v? oSr inftrefti toK: inimical totheirt,
But if they d;d not receive encouragement,
protection, and supplies from our European
neighbors a peace wou!d soon he procured,
the gentlemen who lupport this resolution
know well how that matter (lands, and tlwy
know explanations here are not convenient.
I once thought of nuving a retaliation lor
limiting the time of enlisting to feme day in
March or April next, knowing that tlie inter,
mediate winter months are the bed season
for recrjuiting, and apprehending the best op.
portunities of disciplining would then be pro
bably over J Wut upon second thought, I ap
prehend this was not necelfary, that nioit pro
bably the army by that time would l>e so near
ly compleat, that ali the fuvsng of money it
would make, would be no object, and reflect
ing that the President was already authori'ed
either to stop recruit ng, or to d;ich.trge the
new regiments wben circumstance* would ad'
mitof Inch a inea ure. From the observa
tions I have made the committee will lie con
vinced that 1 deiign to vote agaiuft the re.
solution. (D'tal' be confirmed.)
Tweidai, January 8.
Mr. Gicenup laid the following motion on
the table yesterday That a committee be ap
pointed to prepare and bring in a bill, for plac
ing on the pension lift, all futh officers and pri
vates of the militia, who have been, or ftiall be
wounded, or disabled in the service of the United
States, and not provided for by law.
A petition was presented by Mr. Muhlen
berg, Irom William Wirtz, praying compenfa
tien for services during the late war. Read and
referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
The House took into consideration, the bill
making appropriations for the year 1793, as re
ported by the committee of the whole ycfterday.
Some debate ensued on the item of contingencies
for the War Department; the sum reported in
the estimate is 50,000 dollars. The House at
length filled the blank with 30,00 c the
blanks being filled, it was ordered that the bill
be engrossed for a third reading to-morrow.
A message was received from the Senate by
Mr. Sicretary Otis, informing the House that
the Senate have passed a bill in addition to the
ast for eftablilhing the Judicial Courts of the
United States; anddefirethe concurrence of the
House.
Another meflage from the Senate iuformed
the House, that they have parted a bill, which
originatsd in the House, for allowing interest on
a sum due to the persons therein mentioned,
pursuant to a resolution of the late Congress.
On motion of Mr. Steele, the ayes and noes
were taken this day on the proposed amendment
to his resolution, for reducing the military es
tablishment of the United States viz.
Resolved, That a committee be appointed to
prepare and bring in a bill for reducing the mili
tary ellablifhment of the United States to
regiments, consisting of the non-comniif
fioned officers and privates bow in service, or
which may be recruited before the day
of next; with such proportion of com
missioned officers as thu President of the United
States may think proper.
A T E S.
Mess. A&e,
Clarl,
Giles,
Oilman,
Gerry,
Goodhue,
Grove,
Greenup,
Lee,
Leonard,
Livcrmore,
Macon,
Mercer
NOES.
Mess. Kittera,
Lawrance,
Milledge,
Muhlenberg,
Murray,
Sedgwick,
Schoonmalter,
W. Smith,
Js. Smith,
Sterrett,
Sturges,
Sylvester,
Thatcher,
Wadfworth,
White,
Willis.
The ayes and noes on the original motion,
were then called:
Mess. Ames,
Benfon,
Barnwell,
Baldwin,
S. Bourne,
B Bourn,
Boudinot,
Dayton,
Findley,
Fitzfimons,
Gregg,
Hartley,
Heifler,
Hillhoufe,
Huger,
Kitchell,
A Y £ s.
Mess. Mercer,
Mess. Aflie,
Clark,
Giles,
Gilman,
Goodhue,
Greenup,
Grove,
Leonard,
Livermore,
Macon,
N 0
Mess. Ames,
Barnwell,
Baldwin,
Benfun,
lioudinot,
S Bourne,
Dayton,
Findley,
Fitzfimons,
Gerry,
Gordon,
Gregg,
Hartley,
Ilillhoufe,
Huger,
Kitthell,
Kittera,
Lawrante,
Mess. Madison,
Moore,
Nilcs,
Orr,
Parker,
J. Smith,
Steele,
Sumpter,
T re&dwell,
Tucket,
Venable,
Ward,
Williamion. %6.
Niles,
Orr,
Parker,
Lee
Steele,
Sumpter,
T readweli,
Venable.
Ward. «
E S.
Mess. Milledge,
Moore,
Muhlenberg,
MurTay,
Schoonmaker,
Sedgwick,
J. Smith,
Is. Smith,
W. Smith,
Sterrett,
Sturges,
Sylvtfter,
Thatcher,
Tucker,
Wadfworth.
White,
Williamfon,
Wiilis. 3'A letter was received from the Secretary of
State, endofing an account of the rel'ult ps as
says and experiments on the gold and Jilver
coins of France, England, Spain, and Portugal.
Read, and ordered that Joo copies be printed
for the use of th« member*.
The bill received from the Senate this iore
noon, was twice read, and committed fori hurl
day interim, 100 copies to be printed.
In Committee of the iVbvle, on the I™alid Pcnftv
Bill/ Mr. Day tan in the Chair.
The queflion was taken on Mr. Venable s mo
ion, and was negatived, 39 to 19.
The committee then rose, and reported the
)ill with the amendments agreed to. I'hcHoule
oak the lams into consideration; they adopted
ill of them: other amendments were made. A
motion to adjourn, prevailing, the bill was not
complete d.
Wednisday, January 9.
The petition of Bridget Parry was read, pray
ing compensation for her services as a nurfc in
one of the continental hospitals, and for the pay
of her huiband, a soldier who died in the ser
vice.
Mr. Hi'Jhoufe prefcnted the petition of John
Reed and others, manufacturers of combs, pray
ing an augmentation of the impofl duty on im
ported combs. Referred to the Secretary of the
Treaiury.
An engrolTcd bill, making appropriations tor
the support of government for the year 1793»
ivas read the third time and parted.
The petition of Nathan Fuller was read, pray
ing the fettlemcnt of the accounts of a regiment
of which he is the oldest remaining officer, in
the service of the United States during the late
war ; which accounts through various uufors
feen and unavoidable accidents, were not fettled
within the time prescribed by the ril of limita
tion. Referred to the Secretary of War.
The Hou/e resumed the confederation of the
bill to regulate the claims co invalid pensions.
An amendment proposed by Mr. Venable,
the object of which wa;to provide tor a revision
of the proceedings of the judges, under a law
pafied lafl session, —occ'afioned some debate.
Messrs. Sedgwick, Livermore and Hillhoufe
opposed the motion; Meflrs. Boudinot, Dayton,
Giles, Madifon,Kittera and Venable supported it.
After various alterations and amendment# to
this motion, the ay«s and noes were taken, as
follow:
AYES.
Messieurs AJht, Baldwin, Boudinet, Clark,
ton, Bindley, Fitzjimens, Giles, Gordon, Greenup,
Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Heijler, Huger,
Jacobs, Kitcbell, Kittera, Macon, Madison,
Mercer, Mi Hedge, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray,
Orr, Parker, Schofinmaker, W. Smith, Steele,
Sterrett, Svmper, Sylvefer, Treadivcll, Venable,
White, Willis, William/on —40.
NOES.
Meflieurs Ames, Barnwell, Berfun, Bourne,
Bourn, Gerry, Gilman,Hillboitfe,Laiur ante, Learn
td, Leonard, Livjrmore, Niles, Sedgwick, J .Smith,
I.Smith, Sturges, Tucker, Thatcbcr, IVatd—2o.
Some other amendments were made, and then
the bill was ordered to be engrailed for a third
reading.
The committee o?i enrolled bills reported the
bill as truly enrolled, entitled, " An act to pro
vide for the payment of interest on a sum due
to the persons therein mentioned, &c. The
Speaker signed the fame.
A meflage from the Senate by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informed the House that they have passed
with amendments, the bill entitled, " An ail to
amend the a6t lor eftablilhing a mint, and to
regulate the coins of the United States, so far . s
refpe&s the coinage of copper. These amend
ments being taken into confederation, were a
grctd to by the House. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, January 10.
An engrofled bill to regulate claims to invalid
pensions was read the third time, and passed—
Ayes 36, Noes 13 —as follow.
Ayes. Meflrs. Athe, Baldwin, Barnwell, Bou
dinot, Clark, Findley, Fitzfimons, Giles, Gil
man, Gordon, Greenup, Hartley. Heifter, Hu
£tr, }»cobs, Key, Kitchell, Madison, Mercer,
Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Orr, Parker,
Sch®oninaker, W. Smith, Sterret, Sumpter, Syl
vester, Tread well, Tucker, Venable,Wadfworth
White, Williamfon, Willis. 36.
Now. S. Bourne, Goodhue, Hillhoufe, Law
rence, Learned, Leonard, Livermore, Niles,
Sedgwick, I. Smith, Sturges, Thatcher, Ward.
IS-
Mr. Moore, of the committee on enrolled
bills, reported as truly enrolled, the bill to amend
the a<ft, establishing a mint, and regulating the
coins of the United States, so far as refpe&s the
coinage of copper. The Speaker signed the
fame.
The report on the petition of the Illinois and
Wabalh land companies, made the lad feflion,
was taken into consideration: this report is in
favour of the petition. It was moved that the
report ihould be referred to a committee of the
whole House. This motion was negatived.
Mr. W. Smith made the following motion,
That the Attorney General be dire&ed to re
port a table of fees in the judicial courts of the
United States,at the next feflion. Laid on the
(able.
Mr. Boudinot moved the following, That a
committee be appointed to report a lift of the
fiamesof such invalids, who, since the alft of
March 179 a, have had their names returned in
to the War Office, together with the vouchers
accompanying the fame.
In committee of the whole, Mr. White in the
chair. The refutations refpefting the loan of
tiie baJancet due from the United States to the
individual ilatcs, were taken into consideration ;
the resolutions were read by the chairman. The
report of the commiflioners for fettling the ac
counts, was called for, and read—a debate en
sued, which coritiancd till near the time of ad
journment, they then rose and reported pro
gress.
In committee of the -whole, on the bill rela
tive to claim- agiinil the United States, which
are not barred by any ast of limitation and
which have not been already adjusted. Mr.
Dayton in the chair. The bill was read through
by the clerk, and then discussed by paragraphs.
Mr. Giles moved toftrike out the third fedion,
and to fubllitute a feilion, which makes it the
duty of the officers of the treasury to report to
Congress on the claims prefsnted pursuant to
this aiSt, which was agreed to. The committee
then rose and reported the bill with an amend
ment. Adjourned.
F R I D A Y, Jan. 11
Mr. Goodhue presented the petition of Wil
liam Stearns —praying compeufation for pro
perty taken fov t'ie ufeof tiiearmy ill Charlci
ttfwn, Malfachufetts —read and laid on the
table. . .
Mr. Sturges presented the petition of Peter
Perrin, a Capt. in the late Continent army,
praying compensation for lervices—lead and
referred to the Secretary of war.
A letter wa. read from the Secretary of
the Treasury, enclosing a ftateinent of the
Loans made in the United States pursuant to
| aw ;—iid copies it was ordered iliould be
printed. , .
Mr. Gregg presented the pet't lo " ci J 0 ?"
and Mary Moore, praying compensation for
the services of their foil during the late war ;
read and referred to the Secretary of War.
Mr. Boudinot's motion for a committee to
report a lift of the invalids who fmce the
23' d March, 1792, havehad their vouchers re
turned into the war office, together with the
vouchers accompanying the fame—was taken
into confide ration —This motion after ibme
d-ibate was negatived.
Mr. W. Smiths' motion for directing the
Attorney General to report a table of costs
and fees fur tiie Judicial Courts of the United
State ■,at the next ellion, wai agreed to.
In committee of the whole, Mr. White in
the chair —The consideration of the Resoluti
ons providing for a loan of the balances due
from the United States to the individual
states, was lefamed—Amotion olfeied yei
terday by Mr. Livenr.oie, the object of which
appeared to be an exoneration of tnoie ftatej,
which (hall, on a final settlement of accounts,
be debtor ftafet, being withdrawn by themov
ei The debate was renewed 011 the original
refactions—and was continued till the time
of adjournment—lt was then moved that the
committee Ihould rife and report the resolu
tions without amendments —this motion was
agreed to, 32 to 26 —The committee rose and
reported accordingly.
Adjourned till to morrow.
Philadelphia, Jan. 12.
ABSTRACT OF FURTHER ACCOUNTS
BY THE PACKET.
THE fucceflfcs of France were celebrated at
Sheffield, and othei paits of England, Scotland
and Ireland, by bonfires, ringing of bells, firing
of cannon, &c. &c.—A treaty was concluded
the ill November between 'he French republic
and that of Geneva.—The Court ot Vienna, it
is kid, has promise) to redrtfs all the grievances
ot Brabant.—Among the toads drank by the
Belraft valuntecrs, Ireland, was the following—
4< The aujpicioui day on which the French Na
tional Convention decreed that Royalty was abo
fijhed."—ln the French account ot the retieat of
the Dukt of Brunfwick, they state, lhat the day
p»eced ing the retreat, a council of war wasfom
nioned. In opinion ihc Duke of Brunfwick
flood alone. All the officers declared, that a
more favorable opportunity for overthrowing
Dumourier could not occur, and that he ought
infhntly to be attacked. The Duke continued
to enforce the declaration which he had advan
ced, not by rational argument, but by the peevv
ifh pertinacity of a commander enamoured of
his own judgment. The other officers became
indignant, and even tumultuous. From mur
murs and gentle remonstrances they proceeded
to audacious assertions, the tendency ot which
rather provoked than soothed or convinced the
Commander. Clairfayt offered '.o commence
the attack, and to receive the firft (hock of the
enfeebled enemy, at the head of the Auftrians ;
and Maiechal Broglio, supported by the French
Princes, insisted, that as it was the cause of the
Emigrants, he and his followers confidercd it a
duty incumbent upon them to run the ha2ard
expected from the fiift onset. This corps con
fiftrd of xo,ooo, formerly officers and gentlemen
ot France, proud of their late diftinftions in so
ciety, impatient tor the confli& to display their
prowess, and impelled to aflion by every mo
tive ot revenge. The Duke of Brunfwick not
only refufed to listen to the admonitions now
eagerly urged, but threatened to punish the offi
cers for disobedience.
The King of Piuffn has undertaken to furnifh
every Emigrant, to Ihe number of Boco, with
rations of biead daily, and 15 livrei a month.—
Coblentz is garri foiled with 6®oo men, part
Prufluns. Apprctf , nfmns prevail of an infur
rect'.on in Turin, the capital of Sardinia.—The
Pat is accounts ltate that the Emigrants are cry
ing pcccavi, jnd are petitioning for leave to re
turn.
The Pope, apprehenfi*e of a visit from a
French fleet is putting Civita Vacchia into a pos
ture of defence.—The King of Sardinia has
wrote to the 13 Cantons, and the allies of the
Helvetic Body,on account of the invasion of Sa
voy ; but received for answer, that the Helvetic
Body would fcrupulouflv adhere to their neutra
lity —M. Dumourier, in a letter to the National
Convention, fay*, " The more fuccelfes I obtain
againtt the enemies*of Liberty, the tnore do my
internal enemies eocreafe This letter refers to
one to the Mintrter of War, in which he announ
ces his wish and determination to retire from
public life at the end of the war. " I defne
(fays he) not only my own repose, but that also
259
of the republic, otium cum (J;gn/t.itc t ftiall be the
only dbjVfil 0~l in > wiibcs both ior rny country
arid my ft 11."—Great-Britain, ->n concert with
the United Netherl»nd , it is said, is txtriing
hcrfcti to bring about a peace.— The King ot
PiufTja is returned to Biihn. Ihe Duk of
Brunfwick retunm to Lunenherg, Gen. xMol
lendorf, it is said, commands his anny.— 1 iie
Convention of Savoy has decrecd the eccleliafti
cal propeity, national properly, the abolition ot
convents, and the fequcllranon ot the erFecls of
Emigrants.—A Spanish vessel loaded with grain,
defined for the King of Saidinia, was made
a prize of by the French in the port of Ville
Franche.—Dublin was illuminated o" account
of the fuccefles of the F.ench.—The citizens of
Mente have petitioned to be annexed to trance.
Citizen Pache ha* fucteeded Le Brun as Mintfter
at War.—A new and more severe decree ha<
palled against the Emigrants : they are ban.ibed
forever from the French territory ; they ar: civi
c&'ly Htjunfi, and their goods fequeftercd to ihe
State.-a-Gen. Biron has placed himfclf under
the ©rders of Gen. Cuftine.—Sebaftian Huet has
petitioned the Convention for a month delay
of the t>,ial of the King. —' Tour nay is taken by
the F.ench.—The citizens of N'aniur have le
volted Irpni Aultria.—The French armies in the
Low Countries amount to 140,000 men.
On the 6th November the French army, con.
fjfting of 40,000 men, attacked the Auftriari,
amounting to 28,000. The battle began at 8
o'clock in the morning, and continued till 4 in
the afternoon, when vi&ory declared in favor of
the French. The Auftrians were totally routed,
a!! their irHrenchments forced at the point of the
bayonet, and a number of their cannon taken :
they wcrs strongly ported on the Heights of
Genneppe, in the neghbourhood of Mons.
Three tiers of redoubts rose one above another
like an amphitheatre ; these were filled with
cannon ; but the French carried then} one after
another, to use the words of Gen. Dumourier,
with infinite vivacity. The Ftench loss iscfti
matcd at about 300 killed, and 600 wounded ;
that of the Auftrians at 600 killed ; their whole j
loss in killed, wounded, prifonets and deserters,
at 4000. The city of Mons opened its gates to
the. conquerors, and wherever the French appear,
tftey'afe cordially received. Lieut. Gen. Eg*-
lite, son of the ci-devant Duke of Orleans, is
mentioned in the highest terms of applause for
his bravery and intrepidity in the above battle.
The arms of France have overrun all the Aus
trian Netherlands; Bruflels, the capital, being in
their hands; the general opinion appears to be,
that there is an end to the authoi ity of the House
of Auftiia over that country.
M. Scrvan is to command an army destined
to a& against Spain in the Spring. Kellerman
takes the command of the Alpine at my, in the
place of Montefquiou. Italy is to be invaded.
On the palace gate at Turin, was fixed the fol
lowing label—ln 1792, a kingdom without a Xing 1
in i 793, a King without a kingdom.
\ Paris is quiet —though secret attempts are
eottlinuallv making to excite commotions and
intarrefHons.
Eoglifb papers were received by the Packet
as late as the 22d November—They inform that
P}ine*s Rights of Man has been translated into
the Swcdifb language, and publifbed at Stock
holm .
The King and Queen, according to the Paris
papers, were both lick on the 16th November.
Trie council general of ttrc commons had or
dered a bulletin of the (late of their health to be
publifhcd every day.
On the 13th of September last, a fire broke
out at Constantinople, which completely con
sumed 6000 houses, 6000 shops, 5 mosques,
nnmberlefs ware-houses, and 100 noble build
ings, the residence of the principal ministers,
great officers, and Generals of the Porte.
The Court of Stockholm has afforded an
example to the several powers of Europe, of
magnanimity and the pure love of liberty.
The Duke of Sudermania has appointed M.
de Stahl, the son-in-law of the great Financier
Neckar, and Minister Plenipotentiary of
Sweden at Paris, to recognize the new Go
vernment and Republic of France.
There is avery general report(faysaLondon
paper) that the Cabinet of St. James's, is dis
posed to acknowledge the new French Repub
lic. This event, which some people pretend
will be made public previous to the meeting
of Parliament, will open a new field for poli
ticians.
FRENCH NATIONAL CONVENTION.
NOVEMBER 22.
Extraordinary Sitting —Tkurfday Night.
Letter from Gen. Dumouriir.
BruJJels, Nov. 14.
Citizen President,
1 yellerday presented rnyfelf before Brufiels
with my advanced guard. The Auftrians dif
puled with mc the heights of Andcrfecht. I
was unwilling to expose my brave comrades to
Ihed blood in vain ; night came on ; I kept my
troops under arms ; and, in the morning, I was
ralli ed at Brussels as the deliverer of the nation! —
The Citizen Mintfler at War'will lav before you
the conqife details which I have sent to him.—
The army of the Republic is more animated
than ever ; it may receive for motto, " Viics
acquirU cundo."
(Signed) Dumourier.
General in Chef of the Army 111 the Austrian
Netherlands.
By letters from Cape-Francois, and by pa
pers from that quarter, we learn, that on the
2 J and 3d of December there were dilturban
bances in that unfortunate place.—The want
of a cordial union between the whites ard the
free people of colour appears to have been the
cause, the shedding of more blood, the effert.
The consequences had like to have been very
serious; the negroes made an attack upon the
Cape daring the disturbance, and were nearly
fuctefsful.
It appears tbat the military service which
tli« colony requires, is not performed with
very great ardour on the part of the citizens.
All was a»ain quiet 011 the sth, and our pa
pers to the 7th made no mention of an inter
ruption of tranquility.
We are informed, that the inhabitants of
the of Martinico and Guadaloupe,
have lately captured, by an armed force, the
iHands of* St. Lucia and Marigalante, two
French islands. It is iVic!, the two former
colonies have renounced the jurifdidlion of
France, and have eltabli'hcd tiicmielv.es as an
independent Urate.
The Montgomery, Capt.Bnnyan, is arrived
at New-York. Mr. Wigne] and Company are
not paflengers in this velTel.
The fuccefTes of the French armies were
celebrated at New-Brunfwick, by a public
dinner, on the lit of January.
We hear that on the firft instant a begin
ning was made ofthe State Canal, at the Ca
nowago fails, of which the celebrated Mr.
Brindleyhas at present the direction. On
new.years day 17 rocks were blown, one for
each gentleman of the Canal Company : The
quality of the stones are such as eofrty admit
blowing, which render it a matter of more
consequence to the holders of fliares."
It is reported that Mr. Pitt, the Britifli
prime Mini Her has refigtied.
Extrad of a letter from New-York.
" The Packct brings an account of a proba
ble revolution in Ireland ; 80,000 men are al
ready raised for the purpefe."
Mr. Blanchard, agreeably to his adver*
tifement, at five minutes pad ten o'clock la ft
Wednesday morning, rose with his Balloon from
the PriTon Court in this city, in presence of an
immense concourse of fpe&ators, affemblcd on
the occasion. The process of inflating the bal
loon commenced abont nine o'clock. Seveial
cannon were fired from the dawn of day until
the moment of elevation ; a band of music play
ed during the time of inflating, and when it be.
gan to rife, the majestic fight was truly interest
ing—the flow movement of the band, added fo
il mnity to the scene. Indeed the attention of
the multitude was so absorbed, that it was a con
siderable time ere filcnce was broke by the ac
clamations which fitcceeded.
Aj foou as the clock had struck ten, every
thing being ready, Mr. Blanchard took a ic
fpe&ful leave of all the fpefctators, and received
from the hands of the President a paper, at the
fame time the President spoke a few words to
this bold adventurer, who immediately leaped
into his boat, which was painted blue and
gled ; the balloon was of a yeHowilh coloured
fiik, highly varniftied, over which there was a
strong net-work. Mi. Blanchard wasdreffed in
a plain blue suit, a cock'd hat and white fea
thers. As soon as he was in the boat, he threw
out lome ballatt, and the balloon began to ascend*
slowly and perpendicularly, whillt Mr. Blanch
ard waved ihe colours of the United States, and
also thofeof the French Republic, and fl jurilh
ed his hat to the thoufanda ot citizens from every
part of the country, who stood gratified and
astonished at his intrepidity. After a lew mi
nutes, the wind blowing from tbe northward
and westward, the balloon rose to an immense
heighth, and then shaped its ci uife toward the
southward and eastward, Several gentlemen
galloped down the point road, but soon loft
figlu of it, for it moved at the rate of 20 mile*
an hopr.
About half after 6 o'clock in the evening, Mr.
Blanchard returned to the city, and paid his re
i'pe£ts to the President of the United States.—
His atrial voyage lasted 46 minutes, in which
time he ran over a space ot more than 15 miles,
and then descended a little to the eastward of
Woodbury, in the state of New-Jcrfey, where
he took a carriage and returned to Cooper's
Ferry.
' WE the subscribers, appointed Judges of
the Ele&ion of Directors for the Insurance
Company of North-America, held this day at
their office, do certify, that the following
gentlemen were duly elected:
John M. Nefoitt Charles Petit
John Rofs Thomas L. Moore
Walter Stewart John Swanwick
Samuel Blodget.jun. John Barclay
Magnus Miller Robert Ralfton
John Leamy John Craig
Joseph Ball Francis Weft
Michael Prager
Philadelphia, January 8.
Yesterday the Directors of the Insurance
Company of North-America, met for the
choice of a President, when John Maxwell
Nesbitt, Esq. was unanimonfly re-elected.
No paper* printed east of New-Yoik have
come lo haad fincc Tuesday.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 2 9/4
3 per Cents, is/8
Deferred, 12J6
Full (hares Bank U. S. 36 per c.-nt. prera
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Resol V SD,
THAT theCafhierbe authorised to receive
from the proprietor of any number of com
pleat (hares, such Certificates, not in his own
name, as he may be the proprietor of; and after
cancelling the fame, to i!Tue anew Certificate or
Ceitificatcs in lieu thereof, - n the name of such
proprietor.
That in all future transfers of
compleat (hares in the capital (lock of the Bank,
the Certificates of the lhares transferred be can
celled, and a new Certificate or Certificates be
issued in the name of the transferee or purchaser.
Risolvsd, That the Ceitiiicates in lytuie
ifftied, be tor one or more (hares, as the pn>»
prietor may rcqucft ; and the new Ccrttfic&te or
Certificates (ball be ot correspondent number#
with those in lieu of which tliev arc issued.
JOHN KEAN, Cartiier,
ep3w
«»
Michael Phage*,
John West.BRUSSELS, October 25
Address of the Reprsfentative of the
French People, united in Couvintieu,
to the Armies us the Republic.
" 11 IZENS in aiins, who com
bat for the rights of man,
you, whole courage lias injured the
triumph of Liberty and Eqtialiiy ;
your grateful country now actdrelles
you through us. Receive tlie re
compence of the dangers, fatigues,
and facrifices, which have marked,
your path towards glory. This re
compence, citizens in arms, you al
ready enjoy in the tiaitfe of the
French People. The National Con
vention declare, that you havefaved
the Republic, and that
Your Country is no longer in danger.
" The National Convention de-
crees,
1. That this reftUnony of public
gratitude (ha!! be inferibed on the
Handards afier the Roman manner,
and that these standards (hall be lent
by the Executive Power to the ar
mies.
" 9. That the honor ef be<ring
them in battle (hall be decreed by
the general to citizens who may
have had the happiness to diftin
guifli themselves by some splendid
a <9 ion.
" 5. That if the National Con
vention fliall iigain declarethe coun
try to be in danger, these Itandards
of public fafety fliall be folded up,
and the armies (hall not have the
right of bearing them in their camp,
while the danger of their country
continues.
" 4. That if through want of dis
cipline, or any a<ft of cowardice, the
arms of the republic fliall be ftaineil
in any of the armies, the criminal
army fliall be firft puniflied, by be
ing deprived of this mark of the
confidence of the people, which
fliall be carried back to the National
Convention, and fliall not be te
ftored to the army which loft it, un
til they /hall have gained two vic
tories. This standard of public
fafety (hall be sacredly guarded in
camp by a guard of honor, and du
ring battle placed in the most con
fpicuous part of the camp. The
corps to which the general has en
trusted it, (hall defend it courage
ously, and that which fuffers it to
fall into the hands of the enemy,
{hall be difmilled, and its members
declared incapable of discharging
any of the duties of a citizen.—
Their names (hall likewise be in
scribed on tablets which (hall be
fixed up in all the common balls of
the republic."
OCTOBER 29.
A PROCLAMATION
Has been published by the Emperor,
dated October 23d, in which he di
rects,
1. That none of tlie French Emi
grants in the Low Countries attach
ed to the army of the Princes, lhall
be permitted to remain any where
else, bur in the cantonments align
ed to them ; those who presume to
wander from their quarters, &c. are
to be arretted, and in cafe of resist
ance punished as perturbators of the
public repose.
2. A'l the other Emigrants,what
ever may be their rank or condition,
who do not rent a house or lodg
ings, are to leave the country in the
space of eight days after the publi
cation of the present Arret, on pain
of being treated as vagabonds.
5. All those who, in confeqtience
of the above article, may be entitled
10 remain, are to gi v e in iheir
names, pro'feffions, &c. &c. to the
officers of iuftice. Those who do
not comply wii h the above injunc
tion, or who prefuine to wear white
cockades or plumes in their hats,
ihall be obliged to leave the coun
try in eight days.
Federal City.
THE Subscriber will convey forever, by
good arid fufficient deed. Thirty Lots in
the Citv of iituated 011 South
(.Capitol Street, to any man or company of
men—provided they wiP atnee roCreft there
on good and fufficient brick houses, within
three years f om the date hereof.
DANIEL CARROLL, ofDuddirgton.
City oj Wajhingtori) Dec. 31, 1792. 6t
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Philadelphia, January 7, 1793.
NOTICE »» hereby givru y thai 1 hoc wi.i be
paid at thr Bank, after the 171 h ioftant, to
lite Stockholders or their Rcprefeiuativea ciuly
authorized, the following fuiri<., being 1 h Divi
dend declared foi the laH fix mom hi, viz. t
For each (hare bearing dividend from iht- lft
of July, Sixteen Doll is.
For cacti share bearing dividend from ihe ift
of Augutt, Fifteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
J"or each fhaie bearing dividend Irom the ift
of September, Fourteen Dollars. 67 Ccnis,
For each share bearing dividend iiom the ift
of Oefob r, Fourteen Dollar*..
For each lharc bearing dividend from the ift
of November, Thirteen Dollars, 33 Cents
For each share bearing dividend from ihe Ifl
of December, Twelve Doilais, 67 Cents.
For each three-quarter share. Twelve Dollars.
By order of the Prefidcnt and D»re£)i>f«,
3W JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
TO BE SOLD,
That well-known Place, called
South-Point,
LYING at the end of Sinipuxcnt Neck, on
the Eaftetn Shore of Maryland, wuhintwo
miles of the Inlet, in Worcester County, irt the
said State, being the firft landing for veflcls that
trade in there. From the frnationof the place,
it is convenient for fifh, clams and oyftns, is
open to the sea, and has every convertiency that
could be wish d for. Tiie foil is excellent for
Indian com, wheat or flax, is natural to clover,
and has a good marsh pasture for flock.
Any person defnousof purchafin?', may know
the tci ms by applying to Asfhelon Humphreys, Esq.
in Philadelphia—Mr. Benjamin Pumell,in Indian
Town, Worcester County—or to Capt. Littleton
fiobifi.\ y near the place.
Jan. 2,
A CREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful ittuaiion on the Po
towinack. adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of dire&ion towards ihe Federal
Cuy and GcorgeTowrvn full view of each place,
commanding a profpi.£t of the river and adjacent
< ountry 9! Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles ; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying di
rectly on the uver, will be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-dory framed
dwelling-house, neatly fmifhed, a kitchen, office,
brick smoke-house 3nd dairy, two-dory framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an tce
houfe, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
ceflary improvements ; the whole of the land
cnclofcd with pods and rails, ten or fifteen adTes
laid down, with different kinds of grass. lis
contiguity to those three towns must render it an
obj< £1 worthy the attention of any per fan who
wishes to invcfl money in a property that must
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid »n.
crease of the Federal City, Alexandiia aud
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central (ituatioo to each place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep shore and harbour,
capable of receiving veflels of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be erc£ted here to the Citv of
Wa filing ion and ihe Maryland shores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.— Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles didaqt,
which will suit well to supply the above in
wood and timber. The title may be seen to Ihe
3bovc property, which is indifpu'.able, and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, living
on the premises.
BALDWIN DADE.
December 12 th, 1792.
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or between Providence
and Boston, a very small TRUNK, covercd
with seal-skin of a reddifti colour, with white
spots. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Carolina State Notes t and a few of the
State of Rhode-Island ; with other papers,which
can only be fcrticcable to the proprietor. The
State notes are checked at the offices from whence
theyiffued. Any person producing the Trunk
(with us contents) to JOHN MARSTON, of
Boston, WILLIAM HALL, of Providence,
MeflVs PATERSON and BRASHER, New-
York, cr Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, shall receive the above reward, or for any
part of the property, One Dollars.
Boston, N nv. 28
RUN-AWAY
FROW THE SUBSCRIBER, THE 12lh APRIL,
A NEGRO BOY, named Zcr£; slim and tail,
fixieen years old; came to Samuel Lipin
coi's at Bordentown on the 15th, laid his name
was Henry, and left that place the 27th May.
On ihe 27th day of June, he was taken up in
Bucks County, and carried before a Magiitrate,
fatd he was free, and that he lived on the Suf
quehannah—that a person by the nam4 of Abra
hajn Prall, took him three days journey from
home, and turned him adrift with one dollar
He asked the Justice for a pass to go to his fa
ther, and nothing appeared to the contrary—
He lived with one Thomas Paxwell till the 19'h
of this instant, and then made his escape from
him ; he called his name Peter John ft on—had
on an old G'ey Coating Round Jacket, lined
with red baize; an old pair Leather Breeches,
and an old Felt Hat. Whoever takes up fatd
Boy,and brings h:m to Jacob Me rs f r eau, on
Siaten-ltfand, (hall receive TWENTY DOL
LARS, with reafonahle charges, paid by
JACOB MERSEREAU, Lieut. Col.
j aw 6w
Dec. 29.
ADVKRTISKMKNT.
(£3~This Gazette ispubli/hedin NorthFilth-Strcct,
A'o. 3J., between High and Mulberry Streets—where
the Editor now re/ides.
A LARGE CELLAR TO LET,
Sufficiently capacious to /lore ftveralhundred barrels.
Enquire as above.
Ihe price of this Gazelle is Three Dollars
per annum—One half to be paid at the time of Jub
fcribing.
260
To the Public.
THE Subscribers having Decn appointed >
commiitee of the Board of :be Tiullees of
the Univcrfity of North-Carolina, for the pur
„ofe of receiving proposals Irom Cuch gent.emen
,s may intend to undertake the mftruaion ol
yftu.h in that mftiimion, lake the opportunity
of making known to the public their with that
such gentlemen should fignify their inclination
to the fubfenbers.
The objecls to which it it contemplated by
Ihe Board to turn the attention of the stud mi,
on the full rftabliftimcnt, are—The study of
Languages, particularly the Englilh— History,
ancient and modern—ihe Belle-leures-Logic
and Moral Philosophy—the knowledge of the
Mathematics ana Natural Philolophy—Agricul
ture and Botany, with the principles of Archi
teflnre.
Gentlemen coriverfant in their branches ol
Science and Literature, and who can be well re
commended, will receive very handsome encou
ragement by ihe Board. The exercises of the
inftituiion will commence as eai Iv as poflible
after the completion of the buildings of the Uni
veifity, which are to be com rafted lor immedi
acy SAMUEL ASHE,
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAYE,
DAVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLES
/>25 cp2m
advertisement.
Between ~) December \JI, 1792.
William Shipley jln the high Court ofChancc !
Complainant, V ry of the State of New-
John Meng and o- 1 Jerfcy.
thersDefendants. j Prefeni,
His Excellency the Chancellor.
THE Complainant having filed his bill of
Complaint against the Defendants '.n the
month of September, seventeen hundred and
ninety-one, and in the said Bill of Complaint did
among other things set forth that the said Com
plainant bfing fcized in his Demesne as of fee
of and in a certain Tra&of Land, said to contain
nine hundred and thirty acres, fiiuate, lying and
being in ih« township of Hardwick in the coun
ty of Sussex in the State of New-Jcrfey, did 011
the fir A of March seventeen hundied and eighty
five, bargain fell and convey the fame in fee iim
ple unto John Meng and John Henderfon of ihe
city of Philadelphia, William Goodwin and
John Town, for the consideration of One Thou
land Six Hundred Pounds in Gold or Silver—
That on the fifth day of the fame month of
March the said feoffees above named did executc
unto the said William Shipley a Deed of Moit
gage in feefimple of the said Tract of Land to
lecure the payment o'f the said fixtccn hundred
pounds, with the lawful interest which might
thereon accrue—That in the year seventeen hun
dred and eighty-fix the said John Meng and
William Goodwin did become Bankrupts with
in the intent and meaning of the a£ts of the Le
gislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
and such proceedings were had against them that
in the fame month they were duly declared
Bankrupts ; and that they the said J°hn Meng
and William Goodwin did in some short time
afterwards convey and transfer all their estate
both real and personal, and particularly all their
right and title to the premises above mentioned
to John Field, Cuitis Clay, James C. Filher,
Isaac Wharton, John Kaighn and Arthur Collins
all of the city of Philadelphia, fubjftt to the
Mortgage so as aforefaid given to the said Com
plainant.—That the said John Field, Curtis
Clay, James C. Fisher, Isaac Wharton, John
Kaighn and Arthur Collins soon after bargained,
fold and conveyed all their Right and Title of
and in the said Tratt of Land unto Benjamin
Town of the city of Philadelphia, and John
Town, fubjeft to the Mortgage aforefaid—That
on the eighteenth day of October seventeen hun
dred and eighty-five, the said John Town and
Benjamin Town did execute another Mortgage
to the said William Shipley for fecuririg the pay
ment of twelve hundred pounds in certain in
stallments—That in the month c! January seven
teen hundred and eighty-fix, John Town did
bargain and fell in fee simple all his Right and
Title to the said premises, to the said Benjamin
Town, fubjett to the Mortgages aforefaid—That
in the month of Februaty seventeen hundred and
eighty-eight, the said Benjamin Town did con
vey all-his Right and Title to the said premifet,
to John Field and Curtis Clay of the city of Phi
delphua, upon certain Trulls unknown to theal
Complainant—That said Benjamin Town the
soon after became Bankrupt, and in pursuance
of the bankrupt laws of the State of Pennlvlva
nia, did convey all his eilaie real and personal
to a certain Robert Ralilou—That John Hen
derfon did alio in the month of September seven
teen hundred and eighty-seven become a Bank
rupt, and undi-r the bankrupt laws of the State
of Pennsylvania, did and convey all his
estate real and personal to David Lenox, George
Hughes, Matthew Clarkfon, Peter Baynton and
Richard Bache—And the Complainant doth in
and by his laid Bill, pray that those having
Right to the laid Estate may be decreed to pay
him what is due on the laid Mortgages, or that
the equity of Redemption be forclofed by the
: Decree of this Court.
Cp 9.171
eptf.
And now upon opening this matter this day
by K ichard Stockton, Esquire, being of thr com
plainants counsel—it appearing to the Court
that the said defendants do relide in the State
of Pcunfylvania, wiihout '.he jurifdiflion of this
Court; and it appearing furiher to this Court
thai writs of subpoena have been taken out ac
cording to the course of this Court, that the said
writs oi subpoena have been duly l'erved up»n
the bid fevtiat Defendants upwards of one
vear from this day ; and that none of the said
Defendants have caused his or their appearance
to be entered m this Court 10 the I'uit of the said
Complainant : It is therefore ordered by his
Excellency the Chan ellor, that the (aid De
fendant!! do cause their appearance to be entered
to the suit ot trie above Complainant
to the ruics of t his Court in two months from
this dav, or that the Plaintiffs bill be taken pro
fonlcff.i agreeably to the diteftinns of the ast of
tire Lcfy.flarure in fucli cafe made and provided
— The Complainant giving notice and makm?
publication of (h s rule as in and by the said set
ot ihe Lf jnft-Murf is provided.
WILLIAM PATERSON, Ckavc t //or.
Dtcmbtr tjl, , 792 . <p J£u
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON & SOUCHONG,
Of the very fiift quality, ana liteil impnriiiioo
from Cauioc, »u New-York, by retail,ll
No. 19,
Third, between Chcfnut and M:»rke: Streets.
N. B. A jew Boxes of the above HYSON fsrfg'e.
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-llreet, Ns w-Yokk,
THE Subscriber intending to confine him(elf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE op
STOCKS on COMMISSION, B< gskave 10 off*t
his services 10 his [fiends and fibers, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Thole who may please to t'»w
vor him wuth their bu'.inefs, may deotnd upoi*
having ii tranfa£led with ihe ucmoft fidelity and
dispatch.
Ordersfrom Philadelphia, Boston, or any othef
part of the United States will be ftri£Uy attend?
Ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKER
A further Caution.
ALL per tons are hercbv cautioned from receiv
ing of Thomas Mackie & Co. or any other
person, tour Notes of Hand, given by the late
"James Gardner, of Wilmington, North-Caiolwa,
to Samuel Jack/on, of Philadelphia, all bearing date
the 19th July, 1755, amounting in the whole ta
£.2,600 13 3 Ngrth-Carolina currency; the
greatest part of which said Notes have been paid
to said r/iomas Mackie & Co. in proof of which
the fublcriber? have the depofiuon of Mr. JaJpcr
Mauduit Jackson, and other documents which will
fully and clearly illustrate the matter.
It is therefore expe&ed that this notice, with
the one advertised in this paper in May and June,
1 791, will be a fufficient caution to the public.
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, '» gjjftiftiin.
MAR. R. WIL'LKINGS, )
Wilmington. (N. C.) Aug. 1, 1792. (lamgm)
B O O K S,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
M A T H E W CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
i. A MERIC ANMUSEUMJjfiom its commcrce
jT\. mcnt in January 1787, to June 1792, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered,
Ifeventeen dollars and three fifths.
This work, which is now conduced on an im
prov< d plan, containing the best picccs publilhed
for and against the proceedings ©f government,
will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and miscellaneous tflays,
as any ever published in America, Perhaps in no
one work are so many valuable docun»< nts refpefcl
ing the history of t his country, collc&cd together.
His Excellency the Prcfident of Ihe United States,
has declared of it, that 11 a more ufelul literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deferring of public encouragement.**
The fubfcripiion is two dollars and a half per
ann. Gentlemen in the country v\ ho wish to
be supplied with this work, are requcfted to give
commiflion to friends in the city to fubferibe for
rind receive if Any of the back numbers
maybe had in order to complete sets.
2. Smiil»'s Letters 10 Mari ied Women, on Nurf
ng and the management ot Children.
" We recommend these letters (o the perusal of
those to whom they are particularly addressed."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101 — Price, bound,
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding— 50 cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—-50 cents.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mis»
More'sEflTays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone on command ot Temper, Morc's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's Htftory of New-York,
lar and a quarter,
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, L.L.o. ppofeffor of moral pbiKifophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberd eon—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers -(vol. 69, p. 628) fay : 44 We
have fcen nothing on these fubj< 6ts more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univerfityin Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poeiry. Price four-fiiths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
11. N- ckcr's Treat ife on the impoitance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 8 hs of a dollar.
13. The Constitutions of the several United States,
with the Federal Con dilution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Pricethree-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The Doway Tranflatiori of the Vulgate Hi
bl ,in quarto—-Price, elegantly bound and lettei
ed, 50/2-—plain, fix dollars.
18. Deyouc Chriftian'# Vade Mecura---Piice ft
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Christian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. History of Charles Grand ifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
of a dollar.
23. Select Poems, chiefly American- —Pricc ft
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for fa le, a large afTortmcnt ©f
Books, European at well as American editions,
which he will difpole of on the mod leafonable
terms. Country gentle men, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being fupplicd in
1 1he most fatitfactorv manner. A libera) allowance
io such as pur chafe quant, tie* for public libraries
or to fell again.
Pi ice a dol-