•*!
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NUPTH FIFTH-STREE'I\ PHILADELPHIA
LNo. 70 of Vol. IV.]
By William Young,
BOOKSELLER, »?
No. $i,in Second, the corner oj Ckefnut-Street f *>
lu two large o&avo volumes, neatly bound,
(Price Four Dollars)
ESSAYS
ON THE
INTELLECTUAL **4 AiTIVE POWERS oj
By Thomas Reid, d.d. i.k.s. Edinburgh.
Proleffor ol Moral Philolophy in the Umveiiiiy
of Glasgow.
IT would be improper for the publisHer to
mention any thing refpetling the literary ta
lents ot an author, so generally known and
clteemed. Nor does it appear nereflary 10 re
queit attention to peruse a work, whofc import
ance is universally acknowledged. Those who
have rpad the ancient systems and these volumes,
will readily perceive, that the knowledge of
philosophy, advances from a state of infancy,
towards maturity ; nor will it appear tpf* much,
-when it is said, that Dr. Reid has diveftd moral
science 'rom that veil undc»- which forjp many
:• M^mgi^Crrw.Trcrg
•and the jargon of fchowls. Thus he hasa£lcd
that friendly part to moral science, which the
ingenious Newton and did to natural
philosophy ; their united and (ktlful efforts, ren
der philosophy not only an ufeful, but a pleasant
cxercife, and a more fafe imrodu&ion to the
mod important ftudies.—lt is impracticable to
insert the lengthy reviews ot th s work, and to
give a part, would be unfriendly to the author
and reviewers.
ALSO,
Neatly bound, in two volumra.o&avo,
Price one and a half Dollar,
A COMMENTARY
ON the
BOOK OF PSALMS.
IN which their literal or historical sense, as
they relate to King David, and the Peopl« of
Xfrapl, is il:u(tra<ed, and their application to
Mefliah, to the Church, and to individuals, as
member# thereof, is pointed„ out ; with a view
to render the use of th? JPfalter pleating and pro
fitable to all orders and degrees of Christians.
The jirjl American Edition jrow the 4(\ Eritijh.
m xir- and*
President of Magdalen College, Oxford.
ZIMMERMANNm SOLITUDE,
Price 7.8 Dollar.
ALSO,
SCOTTs FORCE Of TRUTH,
Puce, bound and lcucrcd, 44-100 Dollar.
Jufi come to hand.
BEVIES* SERMONS,
Complete in 3 volumes o&avo,
Puce, bound, 5 25-100 Dollai.
T* n °6.
A New Post-Road.
HAVING been defirrd to rllablifli a poft
road from Reading, in the* (late o f Penn
sylvania, to Wtlliamfburg, at the Great Forks of
the Geneft-e river, Notice is hereby giveri, that
proposals will be received at. the-General Post-
Office, tor carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Wuliair.fburj* aforcfaid, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading »od the town of
Northumberland ; from the latter place to Loyal
Sock creek ; thence to Lycpming creek ; thence
in the new road to Paintrd Post, on Tinea
jivei; and thence to Williamfburg.
The propofait will be received until the ist!i
«>f March next, inclusively ; the carriage ot ihe
mail to commence within one month ailer-
Vards. ,
NecefTary Port-Offices are co he efUblifhed on
the route, and such pet forts appointed Poft
fnafters as the Contractor (hall name, and ihe
Poftmaftei-Gencral approve.
Within three months after the carriage of this
mail 18 commenced, the Contractor i« to state to
Ihe Poftmalter-Grncra! the days and hours of us
»mv«l and departure at and Irom the prin ip.il
Poft-ofßce>, wh>ch experience (hall prove to be
moil convenient ; and thereafter the mail is to
be delivered at the refpettive Poft-oHices at the
hours so fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted,
cn penalty of one dollar for each hour's delay ;
and for the non-performance of a trip, the'Con
tra&or 10 forfeit twenty dollars.
"1 Ire term of the coi.fr.ift cannot exceed eight
years. During us continuance the Contra6i<tr is
to receive the rites of poflagebv law clbblifhed,
and to have the cxc'iufive of carrying
Jetters and packet* f<»» hire, fnch excepted, as
lhall he sent hy a fpeo il m< Ifrnjer, or which are
or fha 11 bet>v law declared free.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P.M.C
Ceneral Pojl-Ojjirc, jan. 22, 1793.
TO BE SOU) BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE fcr receiving and paying GoM—
gradual* d -.ccordtnq to Law—Blank Manifrfts—
And Blanks for the various piivycrs oi Attorney
HcelT.try in Bofnnfs at the v
• r Bank of tHc the United States.
hit Ca :(!ic 1 j No) thtijtk-bi. at t
ffo. 34, bttween Jl' ; h una r\ . K tteeit —U'ic>e
tht LdiHr n<jx rc r l-.j.
Wednesday, Jan jary 50. 1795.
Bf' ft « P. Rice,
No. 50, Ma.R KF.T'ST REIT)
:»' tjj» SYSTEM OF
cfhovt- (?{yancli
Vfed by Mr. Lloy d, in uking down (he
DEBATES of CONGRESS.
*** Representation having been made, that the
Jhortnefs of the period, limited Jur the Sub/cription,
has deprived many gentlemen at a dijltvce, ofan op
portunity of fending in tJietr names ; —the liditfit- in
order to accommodate them, and to render this publi
cation more extensively ufejui, has determined not to
raise the price to a Dollar and halj (ai intended) be
fore the fifteenth of March \ —making hmvtver a dij
criminationy in favor of the aflual Sutjlribei J, by
printing their copies on fupefine Rov.l writ ing
paper. A few remaining copies of /his hind will
be delivered to the earUefl oj the noti-jubJ'c?ibr/tg pur
chajersy at the Jame price as those on the common
printing paper, viz. One Dollar, in marbled covers,
neatly bound y a Frtftch Crown.
Jan. 26,
41 !
CONTINUATION OP
An ACT concerning the registering
and recording of Ships or Veilels.
See. 13. A ND be it further enacted, That j
■L Jl if* the certificate of the registry
of any (hip or vessel fh.aU be loft or destroyed,
or mislaid, the matter, Or other person having
the charge or command thereof, may make
oath or affirmation, before the collector of
the diftridt where such ship or vefiel shall firft
be, after such loss, deft ru&ion, or miflaving,
who is hereby authorized to administer the
fame, which oath or affirmation shall be of the
form following j" I (inserting here the name
of the person /wearing or affirming) being
matter (or having the charge or command) of
the ship or vefiel, called the (inserting the
name of the vessel) do swear (or affirm) that
the said ship, or vefiel hath been, as I verily
believe, registered, according to law, by the
name of (inserting again the name of the vei l
fel) and that a certificate thereof was grant
ed by the collector of the diftridl of (naming
the dt&riit, where registered) which certifi
cate has been'loft (or destroyed, or uninten
tionally and by mere accident mislaid, as the
cafe maybe) and (except,where the certificate
is alledged to have been destroyed) that the
fame, if found again, and within my power,
fhail be delivered up to the collector of the
diftriel, in which it was granted j" which oath,
or affirmation shall be subscribed by the party
making the fame, and upon such oath or affir
mation being made, and the other requifitcs
of this ast, in order to the registry of fliips, or
veflels, being complied with, it shall be lawful
for the collector of the diftridt, before whom
fuc-h oath or affirmation is made, to grant a
new register, inserting therein, that th<- fame
is iiTued, in the room of the one loft or tic*
ftroyed. But in all cases, where a register
fhail foe granted, in lieu of the one loft or de
stroyed, by any other than the collector of
the diftridt, to which the ship or vessel adhially
belongs, such register shall, within ten days,
after her fit ft arrival within the diftriA to
which she belongs, be delivered up to the col
ledlor of the said difti i<;}, who shall, thereupon,
grant a new register, in lieu thereof. And in
cafe the matter, or commander (hall neg'edt
to deliver up such register, within the time a
forefaid, he shall forfeit one hundred dollars ;
and the former register shall become null and
void.
See. 14. And be it further enatted, That
when any {hip, or velTel, which fliall have
been registered, pursuant to this ad, or the
ast hereby, in part repealed, fliall, in whole,
or in part, be fold, 01* transferred to a citizen
or citizens of the United States, or shall be
altered in form, or burthen, by being length
ened, or built upon, or from one denomination
to another, by the mode or method of rigging
or fitting, in every such cafe, the said ship or
veflel (hall be regiltered anew, by her former
name, according to the directions herein be
fore contained (tother wife she (hall cease to be
deemed a Xhip or velfe! of the United States)
and her former certificate of registry shall be
delivered up to the collector to whom appli
cation for such new regiitry fliall be made, at
the time that the fame shall be made, to be by
him transmitted to the Register of the Trea
sury who taiife the fame to be cancelled.
And in every such cafe of sale or transfer,
there lhall be some instrument of writing, in
the nature of a bill'of faley: which ihali recite,
at length, the said certificate* otherwise the
said ship or vets el (hall be incapable of being
so regiltered a pew* And in every cafe, in
which a Alitor vcftel is hereby required to
be registered anew, if the fhall'not be Jo re
gistered anew, fiie flial! not be entitled to any
of the privileges or benefits of a ship or veflel
of the United States. And further, if her
said former certificate of registry shall not be
be delivered up, as aforefaid, except where
the fame may have been destroyed, loft, or
unintentionally mislaid, and an oath or affir
mation thereof shall have been made, asafore
277-
• Owner f>ri»wiWrs
ftiall forfeit and pay the sum of five htim?red
be recovered, with coft'. of Tuit.
S?c. fj. And be it further enacted, That
Vhen the master, or person having the c)ia'; e
or command of alhipor veflel, registered pur
thant to this ast, or the ast hereby in part re
pealed, shall tie changed, the owner, or ore
»f the owners, or the new mailer of such Ihip
or veiTel, (hall report fiich change to the col
lector of the diftriift where the fame (hall hap
'pen, or where the fhid ftiip or veii'el shall firft
< br, after the fame lhall have happened, and
( shall produce to him the certificate of regiltry
j of such fliip or veULt, and lhall make oath ot
* affirmation, Ihewing that such new mailer it
i a citizen ef thr? United States, and the man
ner in which, or means whereby, he is so a ci
tizen : whereupon the laid collector (hall en
dprfe upon the faid'certificate of regiltry, a
memorandum of fuih change, fpecifjiog the
name of such new matter,, and lhall fubferibe
the said memorandum wiih his name, aud if
other than, the collector of the di.ftrU%by whom
■ the said iertijSrate of registry lhall have been
i granted) thai) transmit a copy of the (aid me-
jT< T" ,) or veilel, to which it fhalJ relate ; ami
tb* colle&or of the diftrift, by v/hom the said
certificate (hall hav« been granted, shall make
a like memorandum of such change, in his
book of registers, and shall tranfinit a copy
thereof, to the Register of ti>e Treasury.
And if the said change, shall not be reported,
or if the said oath or affirmation shall not be
taken, as above dire&ed, the registry of such
flilp or vefTel (hall be void,and the said mailer,
or per for, having the charge or command of
her, fliall forfeit and pay the Jiim of one hun
dred dollars.
iec. 16. And be it further enacted, That if any
flip or veflel, heretofore registered, or which
hall hereafter be reentered,as a fhipor veflel of
;he United States,lhall be lold or transferred,
h whole or in part by wayoi* trust, confidence
)r otherwifc, to afubjeft or citizen of any fo
"eign prince or ft ate, and such fa!e or tranl
er (hall not be made known, in manner here
in before dir&fted, Inch ship or veflel, toge
ther with her tackle, appaiel, and furniture,
lhall be forfeited : Provided, That if such
fhinor veifci lhall, be owned in part only, and
it m&uoe made appear to tlie jury, before
prhoin the trial for such forfeiture lhall be had,
that any other owner of such ship or veflel,lc
ing a citizen of the United States, was wholly
ignorant of the sale or transfer to, or owner
ship of, such foreign fubjetfl or citizen, the
lhare or interest of such citizen of the United
State?, lhall not be fubjeft to such forfeiture;
and the residue only (ball be so forfeited.
Sec. 17. And be it further enacted, That
upon the entry of every ship or veficl of the
United States, from any foreign port or place,
if the fame fliall be at the port or place, at
which the owner or any of the part owners
reside, such owner or part-owner fliall make ■
oath or affirmation, that the register of such
Ihip or veflel contains the name or names ot !
all the persons, who arse then owners of the
said Ihip or veflel ; or if any part of such ship
or veflel has been fold or transferred, since
the granting of such register, that such is the
cafe, and that no foreign fnhjett or citizen
hath, to the best of his knowledge and belief,
any (hare, by the way of trust, confidence, or
otherwifc, in such ihip or veflel. And if the
owner, or any part-owner, (hall not reside at
the port or place, at which such ship or veliel
fliall enter, then the matter or commander
lhall make oath or affirmation, to the like ef
fe&. And if the owner, or part-owner, where
there is one, or the matter or commander,
where there is no owner, (halj refufe tofwear
or affirm a.s aforefaid, such ship or velfcl fliall
not be entitled to the privileges of a ship or
vefTel of the United States.
An Adt to amend an Act iini tied,
" An mft eltabliihing a Mint, and
regulatingtheCoins of the United
States, so far as refpe&s the coin-
age of Copper.
BE it enacted by the Senate and Hnnte of
ileprcl'entatives of the United States of
America, in C-ongieli ailrnmlrd, That every
cent [ha!l contain two hundred and eight giains
pt CBopct; and every liait cent ihall contain one
buoriifd and tour grains ot copper ; and ihat so
much of tlic ail, cntitnlici, " An act eH»Mi(!itng
a Mint, and regulating the coins ol the United
StaWs," a? refpeiis the weight ot cims and hall
centi, Ihall be, and the fame is hereby repealed.
JONATHAN' TRL'MRUI L, Sf,e«*rr
oj the HouJ'eoj ReprefeMtittves.
JOHN ADAMS, L'ice-Frefiiier.t of the
United States, and Prrjtdei.l of tie
Senate.
AF7KOVID. .JANUARY 141703.
[Tt> be continued
CLO. WASHINGTON,
Prejuitnt ej the Untied Males.
THOMAS
iiCItUX) ej l>utt.
[Whole No. 592.]
co;\Giu;^s. 4
OF REPRESENTATIVES.
*1 ON DAY, January
r nc memorial of officer iof "several lines o' the I,,in
army of the Uviteti States, being una.r lovhotrv
t'ofi, in ioninnt'ce of the zi'holc y a motion r.nis viudt
o tejjtfl the prayer oj the mmoriats-,
(Mr. Bovdinot's Speech couclhtUJ.)
J- -jiij IL: • • - - -
Mr.Boud:notal!cdgcd his privity to t.'iii bufi
ness, having been in Congress at the time, and o
course one of the parties to the contrail. He alf'
observed very particularly on this measure, ori
ginating with the army, and especially the ne
gotiable property of the certificates: that in tin:
tranfaition all former demands were involved
and the express flipulaticn of the army, and the
assent of Congress was, not to pay a fpecific sum
in Ipecie ; but to givefuch securities for tie bsi
lances as JboM ie given tu the other creditor! of the
United States. Here then Was no difference b*
tween creditors, all were put on a footing, and
every citizen who had made advances for the go
vernrnent, or had fought her battles, were co»(>
dcrsd equally entitled to the attention of govern
ment. .from .tfcis tjg;«. the.a.--
luy put on the face oT a'jetied debt, ant, rettii
litions were made to the different States for a
fund, on which to found a certainty of payment
at least of the interest from year to year; all the
States but one having made the ar
rangements, the plan was fruftrated, but many
of the individual states made provision for, and
did actually pay the interest of 6 per cent. forXc
veral years—notwithstanding these partial pay
ments, the public credit fuffrcd much, and a
mong other causes, the great number of these
negotiable securities brought tp market, was not
.the leal}. The distresses of some, the differer.ti.
objeil of pursuits of others which required capi
tals ; the debts of others which called for pay
ment as soon a» the war was over, and the lears
of others for the fate of the government, all con
fpircd to bring on a general bankruptcy. These
securities fell from 6s Bd. to 2s. 6d. in the pound,
and transfers were as common as any other mer
chandize. The public fears and the uuiverlai
complaint of creditors finally brought about a
change of the government, and the new consti
tution was formed ; in which two material arti
cles applied, to creditors—<me thy new
government was to be liable for tiie debts of the
old; —and another, that all contrails lhould be
carried into effeit agreeably totheterms-of them.
The old Congress had so far complied with their
engagementsas to give the securities required by
the contrail, and to apply to the individual
states for the funds promised The new govern
ment at the earned request of hercreditors, turn
ed an early attention to the public debt. She
found the contrails were with the original cre
ditor. bearer, or aflignee. The Jiolder was equal
ly a party to the contrail, and demanded the
whole debt, without regard to the sum paid for
it to the original holder ; on the other hand ma
ny contended for the right of the firft creditor
as an equitable demand to the surplus (or at leail
a part of it) after paying the principal and in
terest of the sum for which it was transferred.
To this it was answered, that Congress could
not conftder themselves as a court of law or e
quity to determine these claims. They were
bound to A. B. or bearer, or his aflignee. The
holder of the evidence of the public debt, could
alone, in law or equity give a dilcharge of the
debt. That it wouki be unconftitutionai to des
troy the contrail of the parties, when made bor,a
jdc, and it was agreed that fraud could vitiate e
very contrail, for which the courts of juflice
were adequate—therelore it was, that all discri
mination was refufed, firft as a matter without
the jurifdiilion of Congress; iecoDdly,asa mat
ter unjust on the principle of a fair contrail,
made on a risque to be run ; and lastly, as im
prailicable in its very nature. In conlequence
of this, propositions were made to the holders
of the public securities, on the principles of the
funding system ; the fubllance of which were,
that as the government in its infancy could not
embrace a discharge of the debts, or indeed a
payment of full interest, with jut rifqueing the
pnblic credit as heretofore, and by this means a
gain exposing the creditor to loss; it was there
fore advileablc to new modify the debt, so that
the creditor fliould give up 3 per cent. upon the
interest, and 1 per cent, on the principal for 10
years, for which he lhould receive an equivalent
in the following manner :—lt was a very reason
able conjeilure, in cafe the new government
succeeded, and public credit was restored, that
interest would fall in J years to 5 per cent, and
in 10 years to 4 per ceut.—in which call Con
gress might, by new loans, at that rote of inter
est, pay off the whole national debt; but 011 the
prcfent plan, (he would fccure to the holder full
4 per cent, on the principal for 10 years, and af
terwards 6 per cent, for a certain number of
years on terms, with 3 per tent, on the interest
let the common rate of interest be what it might.
This was accepted by the creditor as a realisa
ble equivalent, and the debt wasfubfcribed.
The event proved the truth of thefuppefition,
and the value of the funded debt at one tirre
rose to ijs. on tile pound on 6 per cent, while
leant have treen made by the United States, at
irom 4 to j per ccat. Congress th«yi »certainty 6 per tent. for a munber ©f years,
on the termi of the loans for a partial reduction
for 10 years,and alefs interest on the arrears of
interest then due. This was certainly a full and
generous equivalent, and the only advantage
gained by the public, was a modification of the
debt, by which the burthen would be divided,
and the increafcd number of citizens during 14
or 15 year*-, would bear their proportion of the
cxpence of a war, in the benefit of which they
so effpntially participated. At the time of fund
ing the public debt the irredeemable quality was
confidcred as a full equivalent, and a compliance
with the public faith. Mr. B alledgcd that he
was then a public creditor, and confidcred it in
that point of liglvt. He was a creditor that had
a fight to feel a loss as mud? as any man.—He
creditor of 177 ft, when the army could
notoe lent to Canada without hard money.—
He was a creditor in 1777> when the prisoners
were perishing for want of food and cloathing,
and the government could not furnifh a iingle
suit, or a tolerable supply for their extreme dif
lref«.—He was a creditor of I 77&» w hen at the
Valley Forge, the tracks of the ioldiers were
marked with blood for want of shoos, which he
coile&ed in different parts of the Hate by his
own exertions, and at his own expence without
ft cor reward; and was not repaid till 17 79.—
He was a large creditor of 1779, w^ien Cungrefs
lent to all parts of the Union, earnestly calling
on the friends of their country to come forward
with loans for the public exigencies ; and he was
a creditor as an officer of the army, in which lie
had Curved. Under this view of the fubjed Mr.
B. acknowledged that he had entertained great
jealoufies,left foipic other end was aimed at by
the pre fen t resolution, than the ostensible one ;
this was raised when he heard gentlemen found
the success of the resolution pn the tarings made
• by the funding system, when those gentlemen
had for years pall been continually reprcfenting
that system as founded on an extravagant « afte
of public trcafurq.,: TKat th* j/redeemability of
the 4ebt was a tax on tne government, which
ought never to have been admitted, as monies
might have been loaned at 4 per cent, and by
that mwans one third of the debt saved to the
union : What ideas then must we form ot a re
solution calculated to raise the hopes of the me
moria lifts, which in the end would certainly turn
out a mere Pnadow and worse than a Ihadow;
this really was trifling with the complaints of
our fellow citizens. There had been 110 favmgs,
the creditors who had poffefllon of the public
contra<fts,had received a full equivalent for their
demand by their own free content, at 20s. in the
pound; where then was room for a demand on
the government for any saving ? If there was a
foundation for a claim, it mntl be against the
poflcflorsof the certificates, but however just it
might be, it was merely illusory to form the re
solution on principles that had no existence.
The loffesfuftained by the line of the army,
were not peculiar to them as creditors of the
United States. All classes of citizens who had
generously advanced their money for the support
of this very army in food, cloathing, arms and
ammunition, as well as (hat of the government
itfelf at home and abroad, had been equal fuffer
ers, without the emolument that the army had
received, in the most distressing times of the
war. The army had been a refuge for many
gentlemen driven from their homes, while other
citizens were obliged to wander for a consider
able time without employ or relief. Ke conti
nued his observation* to other citizens who had
fuffered during the war, and particularly men
tioned the fufferers at Falmouth, Charles-Town,
New-York, Norfolk, York-Town, and South-
Carolina, as those who were of the firft class in
the United States; as also the aged, the widows
and the orphan creditors, who had fuffered with
out receiving any advantage whatever from the
public bounty.
Mr. 13. :hen proceeded to consider the practi
cability of the measure, fuppofmg its equality
and just ice to be fairly established. As the appli
cation was now founded on the savings on each
mans individual certificate, the principle equal
ly reached every public creditor.—Suppose then
A.8.C.8. and E<rece ; oed their certificates toge
ther ; A. fold his at 6/"8 in the pound to raise a
tapiral to purctauc public'lati3s, which at one
time in this city fold at 6d. per acre. B. fold
his certificate at 2/6 in the pound, tofave a wife
and children from starving. C. fold his to raise
a capital to go into the speculating line. D.fold
on one day from necessity, but replaced it the
next day and kept it, till the funding system
took place, and then fold at 20/. in the pound,
while E. having confidence in the governmeut,
and not under a necefiity of felling, funded it un
der the present system. How could a discrimi
nation take placc here, or would it be fair equal
ly to remunerate all these original holders ; but
suppose some had fold at 20f and also had recei
ved all the emoluments of the Pennsylvania line,
where would be the deftributive justice of the
measure now proposed. If you extend this doc
trine to the public at large, it will ap
pear in a strong point of light. It is well known
that the common practice of the government
during the war, was to ifiue certificates in fictiti
ous names, the names of clerks in office, of heads
of departments, or otherperfons, merely to make
them anfvver the purpose of a paper currency :
As they were payable to bearer, the name was
th'#ng;ht to be material. The person do
ing the service or lending his money, received
thele certificates, and was really the original
holder, yet the face of the certificate spoke a
different language. In this cafe a difcriminati
-011 would be impossible, and much the largest
part of the public debt, was contracted in this
way after the war was over. Many debts had
been paid by merchants and others to their fo
reign creditors, and others in certificates at their
nom. i.'l vaiue, and .11 other cases individuals
hf.d failed, and the loss wholly fallen on their
creditor 3.
Mr. Boui'.inot carneftly contended that the cx
pence of a difenmirmtien would exceed the reve
nues of the United States. The nature of tranf
ferable flock, which i» designed to operate ascur
rent monct, furoids the idea ofa difcriniination,
and oil (iU jlic credit must necessarily fail if such
a doolrnie was to prevail ill the finances of the
union. This was a very serious and important
idea, worthy the attention of the applicants, who
certainly were interested in the pnblic weal,
The right, of freemen to dispose of their own
property as they please, was involved in the
question ; for if the government was to make
up every loss ou a transfer, then it ouglit not to
be made withour their consent.
Mr. Boudinot hoped he would not be.under
flood to deny either the services or the fu(Jer
ings of the army; but he alledged the proiuif
ed reVompence was given, which had
ferrtd With all the legal and equitable rig*, t$
the holder who had received from government
the full value, and therefore no further demand
eitb.tr in law or equity remained againll ihe go
vernment. The negotiable quality was apriuci
pie in the securities infilled on by the army, and
which they had exercised as they chose, for dif
ferent purposes, and from different views. He
acknowledged, that the generosity, benevolence,
and humanity of Congress had been addressed :
To this he answered that they were but ftewirds
cf the people's property, tor which they vera
aufwerable. That they were not sent here to
fliow their generosity; it wa9 to do jtiflice, and
that not to one clafa, but to every description of
citizens. He knew of but one rule for every
citizen of the U. States. They were all equally
represented in that houfc—but at all events it
bccamethem tobejuft beforethey weregenerous.
Mr. B. allured the house that he had taken up
so much of their time, fcecaufe he found that 119
one had come forward fairly to meet the quefti
on,and he had too great a regardfor the njemori
aliltj to wish themtogoaway under,the ideathat
any thing had'oeen refufed to them tvhich ought
in propriety to have been done. At any rate he
had Oindidly aad above board given
of his vote on this important occaflon, which
would be a;;ainfl the question prop'ofed by the
gentleman from Virginia.
The following are the Refoluhons mvved, -and the
fubjiance of the remarks and calculations nade y
h Mr. Giles in the Houje oj Reprefcntdtives on
iVedneJdax lujl.
I now iubmit to the confederation of the
house certain resolutions, which I hold in my
hand; and after leading which, I will p*oceed
10 mention the' rcafons, which have influenced me
in moving them ; the resolutions are as follow :
Resolved, that'the President of the United
States be requested to cause to be laid before this
House, copies of the authorities under which
loans have been negociated, pursuant to the a&s
of the 4th and 12th of August 1790, together
with copies of the authorities dire<Sting the ap
plication of the monies borrowed.
Resolved, That the President of the United
States be requested to cause this House to be fur
niflied with the names of the persons by whom,
and to whom, the refpe&ive payments of the
Frcnch debt have been made in France, pursu
ant to the a6b for that purpose, fpecifpng tne
dates of the refpeftive draughts upon the com
miftioners in Holland, and the dates of thfc re
fpe&ive payments of the debts : A similar state
ment is requested, refpedling the debts to Spain
and Holland.
Resolved, that the Secretary of the treasury
be dire&ed to lay before the this house, an ac
count, exhibiting half-monthly, the balances be
tween the United States and the bank of the
United States, including the several branch
banks, from the commencement of those insti
tutions to the end of the year 179 a.
Resolved, that the Secretary of the treasury
be dire&cd to lay before this House an account
of all monies, which may have come into the
finking fund, from the commencement ©f that
inilitution, to the present time, fpecifying the
particular fund from which they have accrued,
and exhibiting, half yearly, the sums uninvest
ed, and where deposited.
Resolved, that the Secretary of the treasury
be dire&ed to report to this House the balance
of the unapplied revenues, at the end of the year
1 79*» fpecifying whether in money or bonds,
and noting where the money is
he also make report of all unapplied revenues,
which may have been obtained by the several
loans authorifedby law, and where such monies
a re now deposited. r-b
Thcfe resolutions have grown out of thfc em
barraflVnents I have met with, in attempting to
comprehend the report 0$ tnefecretaiy of the
irealuiy, made ;n pursuance; "of an order of this
ho'lie, of the 27th of December 1792, exjjibit r
ing fuudry ilatements refpc&ing foieign loans.
Thtle embarri»ffine»»ls have increased in pro
portion to the attention which I have bestowed
on the fubj< ft ; and a number of official papers
to which I have had refeience tot information;
instead of elucidating ft em rathefuo oblcurethe
ei.qu.iy. To obtain neceflary information there
l6>e is the objet* ol tl>cfc resolutions, and no one
con doubt the immediate applicability this
in tor (nation to a bill now lying upon your ta
ble, tor the purpose of reirnbuifjng the loan of
2,000,000 of Uollais made ol the Bank of the
Lniied States, by opening a new loan for that
sum abroad, and by changing the application of
the like ium already borrowed and appropri
atcd to the difcliarge of the debt to France from
its original defoliation, to the iiif»
charge of the<ieht to the B<\nk.
The hti\ resolution has anfen from that pait
of the printed report of thcfccrctary of liic trea
sury, which exhibits the terms upon which va
rious loans have been made abroad, but neither
pre'ents the pt cafe authorities under which thofc
negocia'.'.ons have been made, nor the precise
amount ol the sums borrowed lor the fparate
and diUm£t objects ol the two a£ls mentioned in
l.he resolution.
Aupihcr reason has more strongly suggested
the propriety of calling !or the information re
quelled by this resolution. The b>ll now upcu
your table which has been before alluded to,
contemplates the whole of the monies borrow
ed abroad and now on hund, as being originally
278
appropriated to thedifshargeof the Trench deht,
and proposes to change the orig.nal dell,nation
of these identical monies and the reason ani<*n
ed for this mea-fure has been the unfctilcd Hate
of affairs in trance.
In the printed report, the Secretary or the
T.eafury,remarks that the fame monies arc ap.
plicalilc to tire finking fund. It appears Hrange
after express and dift'n£l appropriations by
taw, that anv mifunderftunding relative to this
ohirft, rfionl'd cxift, and the information called
lor may poflTMy explain this teeming contradic-
'I'he fccond resolution has anfen from that
pa*t of thr printed report marked B. and which
exhibits the payments made to France, but does
not furnifh the names of the persons engaged in
those negociations; nor docs it present to view
the length of timt those peifous have bicn p»f
fciTed ot the public monies bv stating the dates
of the refpeflive draiijjhis in Holland and the
dates of the afiual application of the monies to
the discharge of the debt, and it is evident that
from the timrsthc loans are refpeflively created,
to the times of the actual application of the mo
nies borrowed, the United States are paying the
usual interest upon the debt intended to be le
deemcd, and the stipulated interest. upon .he mo.
nies borrowed for the redemption.—This re-
mark is equally applicable to the payments of
other foreran debts with the payments of the
debt to Fiance.
The third resolution has arisen from calcula
tions drawn partly from the iali page of l he
printed report, and from the original Bank
book of the United States, from which it appears
that the balances in Bank in favor of the United
States, were as follows
n Bank Philadelphia, 30th May?)
1792, and 16th June fame year V 676,959 55
in Branch Banks, )
79?, June 30th, in all Banks in
the United States, 555« 2 7 l 22
July 28th and 31 ft in do. 511*423 91
August 25th, 30th and 31ft,
1 ' in do,
— . . • I 'Z7~O. ~ '
On the Hrfl of June, a loan was negocwited
yith the Bank of the United Slates on the pait
of the United States tor 100,000 dolls, at 5 per
cent, per ann. On the firft of July another lo«m
was made upon the fame terms for the like sum.
On the lft of August another loan was made
upon the fame terms for the like sum. On the
lft of September another loan was made upon
the fame terms for i!ie like sum. It appears
from the last page of the printed report, that
there had been drawn intoAmcrica from theisth
of December, 1790, to the 27th of January, 1792,
of the monies borrowed abroad, the sum of
2,663,621 florins, 2 stivers, and 6 deniers. If
this sum were unexpended and lodged in the
bank at the times of making tbefe loans (and
Congress have never yet been informed oT any
deficiency of revenue) the United States will of
confluence have paid upon the monies bor
rowed from the Bank of the United States, from
15 to 17 per cent, per nun. to wit, they will have
paid 5 per cent upon the original debt to France,
5 per cent, upon the monies borrowed for its
redemption, exclusive of douceurs and other
charges, and 5 per cent, upon the sum borrowed
of the bank, which may be deemed pact of this
dcpofit made in the bank by the United States.
But even dticarding these inferences, it mult be
admitted that the United States have been pay
ing 5 per cent, upon a loan made of the bank,
when a greater sum than the loan made, has
been at all times depofiled in bank on the pait
of the United States.
It is here to be remaikcd, that a balance of caih
is admitted, by the Treasurer's return, to have
been in his hands 3111 December, 1790, amount
ing to 973 342 dolls. 43 cents, and in July 30th,
1791, the fuin of 582,189 dollars, 54 cents.
I am informed that bills are often drawn in
favour of the bank lor monies in the hands of
the revenue officers in distant parts of the United
Statfs, and that credit is entered in the bank
book upon the receipt of such bills, although the
monies may not a&ually be in bank for some
time after the credit i* entered, and hence jt is
inferred, that the bank book does not conclu
sively (how the real sum in bank—not to men
tion that such bills answer all the purposes of
cafb, and ought theiefore to be credited upon
the receipt of them. It is to be remarked that
theie is a regular and continual influx of monies
into the bank by the operation of chefe bills.—
»It ismotvery material Whether a biH lodged in
bank to-day, should be paid to-day, provided
fornethiug like the fame sum (hould be paid in
consequence of a bill lodged in bank one or two
months ago, and the bill of to-dav, should be
paid one or two months hence. The following
flatement will, in some incafure explain this
idea, by exhibiting half-monthly the balances of
public monies in all the banks, about the mid
dle and end of each month; beginning with
May 1792, and ending with December of the
lame year.
D >lls. Cfs.
1792. May 340,322 11
duto 33**1'6 35
June 776,107 65
ditto 52 3,272 22
J ll, y 54**6,57 13
onto 421,426 91
741-47° *0
ditto 740,903 8
September 695,302 23
ditto 367.961 25
October 458.805 52
ditto 473«388 99
November 681,250 9
ditto 811,212 51
15th Decora. i,0a0,6i4 • 73
Do. 22d and sth
January Uft re- C 790,642 11
turns, \
The fourth resolution has afifen from that
pan of the printed report whieh remarks that
the rejidue a/ the sum drawn from Holland,
amounting 10 1.668.188 d011.!,s 27
phcabtc ta the pur chafe of the public debt. It is
known that the sum ol 1,374.656 dollars 40
cents, being the furpius of the revenue up to the
endlo; December 1790, was originally appropri
ated to the finking fund ; t | l-t t |, c fur pi us of
other appiopriations have been applied to this
fund, and that the intereil of the debt purchased
has alio been wholly appropriated to its in
crcafc : Xt is also known, that between 11 and
12 hundred thousand dollars, and no mi
the original appropriation, have bem
verted in the purchase of the debt, it i, lh ' \
somewhat unaccountable that f.» U,. r ' ,
~668,.88 dolU,, fho.ild b e drawn in,
loans abroad when Ihe linking fund ha, ,7
overflowed from domcilte rcfo Ul{<l Jnd .
the probability of pu.chaGn,; i, r*,' reintl *'
fened by llie rife in the price of vtpr , \
limitations of the last ast of Cnn E ,M, '
fuhjefl. It would not be deemediTc '
mical arrangement to m„ke a 1,.,,, of so , 01
fumof money upon terms by no means ho ' e
bte or advantageous, and' appropria,, u
purchase of (he debc it«der |, m , Ul , onl *
would forbid us invelliiure. The inlorm
called for in tins resolution may poflibly
tnelc difficulties. 7
The &hh and last h« ,„r n ,
th«t part of the printed report 'pa gl . , l() , !'
Hates the whole fuins drawn from
amount to 2,304,769 dollars, 3 c<n:s . b "
ther immediately presents to view -he bal
on hand, nor informs whi re that balance ii"
posited. It appears by the bank book lhat '
whole deposit of the United States ,„b, nk
this time, from aH rtfourjes, amountsio 700 f
dollars 11 cents, I ence it will appear t>o™
ffatemcut partly conjeanral, and partly | oailt
upon the ftaiements 111 the primtd rrpor- ,
some official documents, that >.554,853 d'oll
and 43 cents, remain unaccounted tor, as v
appear from the following account :
Sums which ought to be in the treasury-
Whole monies drawn from HolO
landas dated in print- repo. p. j. 2 >3°4,7
Deduct paid for St. Domingo, as >
stated in ditto, 455,2
Dolls. Cts.
Leaves a balance j g®,
Deduct to Foreign officers,if paid '191^
Leaves a balance of 1,668 :
Add surplus of finking fund, J '
con j eel lira I,
A4d iorplus ot revpnne cS uuj, ;>
reported at
8'
Whole amount Dollirs 2,345,4
Sums not taken into this estimate i—Fu
any monies not paid of the 191,316; due
foreign officer* : Second, so mu«h mroiei
bank as arole froni the revenue*: Third, I
receipts ef the current year. D«.
From this aggregate sum of 2,345,49]
D:duft in bank 793,643
Balance not accounted for 1,554,85^
In this last eftiniate cents have not be
taken into calculation, which makes an
considerable variation in some of the sums.
Another circnmthiuce appears foinewl
fmgular ; In the printed report 2,986,013!
rins are stated to have been drawn from H
land in the year 1792. In the bank book
appears from the lift of bills- drawn, tl
8,695,137 fiorins were drawn for in the si
time. This difference I presume may adi
of explanation, probably from the manner
this business, or from Tome caf
mistake. It deserves however to beexplain
It appears from aiwrter~ltaiement m;
up to the Ift of April, 1793, that there oui
to be at that time a fufficient sum of mot
in the treafary toreimburfe the loan of t
millions to the bank, and to answer all tb
ther purposes of government.
Treasury Dr.
April ift, 1793-
Balance of foreign loans
Surplus of finking fund,conjeft.
Bonds payable in Dec* 179 2
Do. Jan. 1793
Do. February
Do. March
Surplus of revenue of 1792
All the revenue of the current
year, estimated at 1,000,000
These sums make the sum of
Treasury Ci\
Debt to bank, if paid, 2,000,000
One quarter's interest toApr. '93 700,000
Bonds payable in Dec. if applied
to the lad quarter's interest
One quarter's expences of army
"•ao4foverflmcnt, cftimateti at 400,000-
Deduct this sum from
Balance in favor of the treasury,
if the debt to the bank be paid 664,265
The papers from which I have collefl
these ftatiments may lie deceptive in thei
selves, or may be subject to explanations fr (
others.—Candor, however, induces me to.
knowledge, that impressions rel'ulting f«
my enquiries into this fubjeft. have been ma
upon my mind, by no means favorable to!
arrangements made by the gentleman at t
head of the treasury department. But I il>
keep myfelf open to conviction in cafe oil
fufficient explanation which may be hereal
given, and 1 now avow that my acknowlei
ment of millake (hall beat lealt coinmenfur'
to any conviction produced.
I cannot help remarking, before I fit o°"
that we have been lcgiflating for some ? e '
without competent official knowledge <>'
(late of the treasury or revenues; in the con
of which time we have bec» engaged in
moll important fifcal arrangements, tha
have authorised a loan of the bank of t e
nited States for more than 530,020 do a
when probably a greater sum of public mo
wjis deposited in the bank ; that we
- pa(Ted a vote this session authorizing a 11 r
loan for 800,000 dollars, and that we *
upon the point of authorizing a lo»n a
for 2,000,000 dollars, without knowing
extent of the authorities at present exi
for borrowing, the amount of monies on '
in confequencc of loans already made, 0
application of tiie monies which may •
been used ; and I conceive it is no«
that this information be officially laid
this house. , ■
"The above refactions wore a?reea
Dof. C
t,668,182
4-)0,030
460,126
129.332
87,057
232,447
277,3° i
4,224,389
460,123
3,562,126
4,224,389SATURDAY, Jan. 26.
Alette was read from the Trealurei" of
the Unit d States, encloling his account
of receipts and expenditures for. the War
department for the quarter, ending the 31ft
December, a* fettled by the officers of the
treasury. Ordered that 100 copies be
printed.
Several petitions were read, praying cora
penfation for property used, loft or destroyed
during the war. On motion, the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury on loft or de
stroyed property was read, and 100 copies or
dered to be printed.
Two other petitions were read, and refer
red to the Secretary of War.
A bill to authorize a loan in the notes or
Certificates o4'ftich ftatej, as,on a-finaj fettle
metit of accounts lhall have a balince due to
them from the United States,was brought in,
engrossed, and read the third time. The
Speaker oblerved that there were several
-blanks to be filled previous to the parting the
Mr. Fitzfimons informed the House, that
the members of the committee on the enquiry
into the causes of the failure of the expedition
under General St. Clair, were then attending
to the examination ot several witneiies whose
evidence was conlidered importaut; it the
•queltioii on the passage of the bill Ihould now
be taken, it would be proper to notify the
committee to attend ; and it any further de
bate should ensue, the time would be so taken
up that the witiieffes mud be dilmiffed, and
their attendance required on Monday. Some
members observing, that it was very probable
several of the House would offer remarks on
the bill before the question was taken.
A motion was made to adjourn ; which be
ing put, was carried in the affirmative, and
the House adjourned till Monday.
MONDAY, January *3.
- Mr."'Xmesprelentea"the
"Wheeler, which was read and referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Baldwin presented the petition of Ed
ward Telfair and John Wereat, praying com
pensation for supplies furnifhed the American
army during the invasion of Georgia by the
Britiih. Read and referred as above.
Mr. Mercer presented the petition of John
A.Titon, an officer of the late Pennsylvania line
•t' .he army. Read and referred to the Secreta
ry r War.
JV) •. Milledge presented the petition ofWilli
an- \iathew9, v*hich was read and referred as
above.
A nation was made and carried, That the
con: 'e of the whole be discharged from the
further fideration of a bill received from the
Senate ens itled, wAn a<st in addition to the a<ft
for r 1 " ig the Judicial Courts.'* The fame
b il -eferred to a fele& committee.
the bill to authorize a loan in
ificates of the individual states,
'c. d . The question then wa son
bill. On this Page mov
ueftion. The ayes and noes
-uta oa this, the previous question was
put in the following words :—Shall the main
question on the bill be now put ? This was de
termined in the affirmative as follows:
E S.
MclT. Lawrance,
Learned,
Livermore,
Muhlenberg,
Sedgwick,
W. Smith,
Sterrett,
a r
MefT. Ames,
Barnwell,
Benfun,
Boudinot,
B. Bourne,
S Bourne,
Dayton,
Fitzftmons,
Gerry,
Gilman,
Goodhue,
Gordon,
Hartley,
Hillhoufe,
Huger,
Key,
Kittera,
N 0
Med. yifhe,
Baldwin,
Mess. Murray,
Clark,
Findley,
Giles,
Gre<?£,
Griffin,
GroVe,
Heiftcr,
Jacobs,
Kitchell,
Lee
Macon,
Madison,
Mercer,
Mo#re,
The main queftioH was then put, Shall the bill
paf-s ? The jiyes and noes on this question were
as above, excepting Mr. Key, who voting in
the negative, the House was equally divided.—
The Speaker gave his calling vote in saver of
falling the bill.
A message was received from the Prefidcnt of
the United States by Mr. Lear, his Secretary,
communicating to the House a fUtement of the
expenditures, to the end of the year 179 2, from
the sum of 10,000 dollars appropriated for con
tingent expences. Also, a supplementary ar
rangement rcfpe&ing the <!iftri& of the state of
North-Carolina, inflation to the a& laying
duties on difti led spirits.
In committee of the whole on the resolution
for granting hall* pay for 7 years to the widows
and orphans of such officers of the army as have
been killed in the service of the United States
since the 3d day of June, 1784, or which may
hercai'ter be killed in the public service.
Mr. Key in the chair.
Mr. Hartley, who brought forward the mo
tion, moved to strike out June 3, 1784, and in
fer: 4th day of March, 1729.
Mr. Livermore said he should be in favor of
the- motion if it went as far back as the year
1775, and comprehended the widows and or
phans of the officers of the army killed within
two years from the commencement of the war.
Mr. Williamfon said he (hould consider it his
duty to move for an amendment to the proposi
tion, in the progress of its discussion, hy insert
ing a clause to provide for the widows and or
phans of the afficers of the militia.
Mr. Wadfworth dated the reasons on which
he supposed provision had not been made for
the widows and orphans of those officers which
were killed during the period alluded to by the
gentleman from New-Hampffiire : one princi
pal one was, that the new government wa* nt»
authorized by the conflitution to create a*v dc
maml* agjrinft the United States ;—the govern
ment was bound to take up the debts as ftiev
found them. The old government had rot re
cognized the claims of those widows and orphans
alluded to. With refpe& to the present refolto
tion, he was opposed to the amendment; —he
thought it ought to go back to June 1784, the
commencement of the present Indian war. He
should move for other amendments to the reso
lution, that it ftiould provide not only for those
who may fall by the sword, but for such as die
in the public service. He should also be for ex
tending the provision to the widows and orphans
of the officers of the militia. He conlidered it
as a mofl difgraceful thing to a government not
to make provision for the families of those who
/acrificed their lives in the cause of their coun
try.
The motion for striking out June 3, 1784,
was put and carried. The other part of the mo
tion, to insert 4th day of March, 1789, was not
put, being fuperceded by a motion for the com
mittee's rising—The committee rose, reported
progreis, and the House adjourned.
The Ayes artd Noes on engnfiiag (he
bilL referred tn in oiy were divided
ly, as on its palling.
Sturges,
Sumpter,
Sylvester,
Thatcher,
Tucker,
Ward.
White,
Wadfworth,
Leonard,
£ S.
Niles,
Page,
Parker,
Schoonmaker,
J. Smith,
I. Smith,
Steele,
Tread well,
Venable.
Williamfon,
Willis.
Greenup,
Mill edge,
Orr,
The " toaflcd" steele has certainly mipd
Jire, notwithlianding the intelligent puff of the
Lkrtmidc correspondent.
TUESDAY, Jan. 29.
On motion of Mr. Parker, the reptm of a fe
left committee, to whom the report of the Se
cretary of War, on the petition of Thomas Wifli
atthad been referred, was taken into confedera
tion— After again reading the report of the Se
cretary of war, and hearing an explanation of
the business from Mr. Parker—the House agreed
to the repoit of the felc6l committee, and order
ed that the fame committee should bring in a
bill put fuant to the report.
A report on the petition ol Robert Eden was
read, which was in favor of the prayer of the
petition—laid on the table.
The bill received from the Senate, for regu
lating foreign coins, and for other purposes, was
taken up in committee of the whole, Mr. Sedg
wick in the chair—Some small amendments
were agreed to—and then the bill as amended
was reported to the House—the House adopted
the amendments—and on motion, the bill was
read the third time—On the question, (hall the
hill pass ? Some opposition was mad**—lt was
said it would have a retrofpr&ivc effect, and in
terfere-wirh cxifting conrradls— it was promoted
to add a proviso to remedy this incotiveniepcy—
A motion was made to re-commit the bill for
the purpofeof adding this amendment—this mo
tion was negatived, and the bill was then palfed
by a great majority.
A mefTage from the Senate by Mr. Otis,
their Secretary, informed the House, that the
Senate have considered the bill sent from the
House, entitled an ast to regulate claims to
invalid pensions, and have agreed to the fame
with Amendments—in which they retjueft the
concurrence of the House.
In' committee of the whole on the bill to
amend the ast to promote the progress of ufe
ful arts. Mr Steele in the Chair.
The committee made forne progreft in'dif
cuffing the bill—they then role, and the cfcftii -
man reported accordingly—and the House
adjourned. f
Philadelphia, Jan. 50.
The Mail from the Southward due yeffer
day, was rpbbed soon after it Jest Baltifflota.
A fubfeription was in circulation last week
in Providence, R. I. for celebrating the glo
rious fuccefles of the French nation
Great preparations have been made in Bos
ton for the fame purpose—a grand Civic Feast
was to be celebrated there the 24th instant, in
Fane uil-Hall.
The new Theatre ii to be opened with a
Grand Concert of Vocal and Instrumental
Music, on Saturday evening next. '
Wc hear that Jonh Vining, Esq. is ele&ed
Senator of the United States for the State of
Delaware, in the place of Richard Baflett, Esq.
whose time expires in March next.
u A correspondent (in the Bolton ladepen.
dent Chronicle) congratulates his countrymen
that the Congreflional Iword of inveftigption,
i 5 tempered with pnre American fteele—He
adds, God grant it success, and let all the
people fay Amen—and that the toast ef the
day is Citizen StetU, the independent inreili
gatoroi'tbe War Department."
The patriotic toad, is, the rpirited WaOt
wori h, Dayton, Fikdley, and the others rtf
the honest thirty-fix, who detested irupofitirtn,
and puti'ued the best intereik of their coniti
tuents. Cent!net-
In rePpe# to fame recent a
correspondent remarks, that taking tlie whi.le
bufinef"-. into view—it may be laid of the
the heath of certain departments—" Satan
hatli desired to have you, that he may
as wheat.—
Taking it for granted that the body pol!«
tic ls diiVafcd, v. bat a lamentable confidsra
279
t'on it is, thit the phyHcisns employed on the
oc 'Cafion should be intereited against the
patient.
It is to be observed, in refpedfc tp theoppo
fition to the mealures of government, that the
appeal is more frequently made to the sense
of the people, than to the merits of tiie fub
je&—This may be politic as it relates to
constituents of thoi'e who may thus facrifi.ce
their independence at the flirine of partial lo
cal popularity; but the great enquiry is 5 what
is tight and bcjl—and this the nnbiallsd unpie
j udiced voice of the people will always ulti
mately approve.
Boston, Jan. 19.
A liberal writer in a Philadelphia paper, ear
nestly exhorf-, ttint cli do
not square exa&ly with certain principles,
whi<?lr he deems orthodox, fhoujd be burned
by the common hangman But he does not ap
pear to know, that the United States is a free
Republic; that its Citizens are Freemen, and
that they willj whenever they please, speak
and pnbliih their political sentiments, be they
what they may ! Did he know this, his fol.y
would be conspicuous even to himfelf.
A Baltimore paper of the 24th inft. con
tains the following summary of Foreign In
telligence.
That J, 003 of"Clairfayt's array have de
fertedj and that the General was alfaffinated
That Bruxelles and Oftend are in the pof
felfion of the French.—Another report was
current, but not believed, that Gen- Duinou
rier, rl allied with his successes, had advanced
to the town of Halle, near Bruxelles, where
he was fifirounded by the Austrian armv.
That an infurreftion'has broke out at Bru
ges, in Brabant—the popular party, on hear,
ing of the fuecefs of the French arms at Moils,
rose against the Court party ; several were
maUHcrcd; the 3»tes are .fiiut, end IW *»ie
permitted to depart,—That the fate of Louis
XVI. may now be very clearly augured—firft
by the Convenntion taking upon them the au
thority of trying him ; and next, by the pro
posal of Manuel, " thak those who might (peak
in his favor (hould be under the protection of
the law," being received with murmurs and
hifles.—That a Dutch fliip put into Dover
harbour on the Isth of November, which on
the day before was blown into Calais by ftrels
oi weather; lhe had on board several French
emigrant noblemen, who cou d not conceal
themselves from the municipality. They ap
prehended and conducted them to prison ; and
several chests of money belonging to them,
were seized for the service of the state.—
That the report of Mr. Pitt's resignation was
premature—That thirty thouiand manufac
turers are at this moment out of employ in
the city of Lyons only, and the poor are abso
lutely starving—That the Sovereign Pontiff
has publicly announced from the Papal chair
the pofiibility of the French soon coming there
to pillage the churches, carry oft' the sacred
vases, and renew in thatclty the depredations
which the barbarians committed there in the
firth century, uuder the eommand of Attila
The Pope observes, that his age and his cha
racter do not admit of his putting liimfclf at
the head of troops to repulie the enemy; that
the avowed intention of the French to extin
guilh the lacerdotal race, prevented him from
going in his pontifical robes, in imitation of
St. Leon, to meet the destructive scourge
whiclithreatens the city. That the people
inuft u.'e jthe steps they have to take
On this declaration being made, Prince Bor
ghefe and other diftinguiihed persons protested
that they would defend their country to the
last drop oi their blood. The people cried out
tlieir intentions to do thefam?, and measures
are already taken for their defence. A good
army well polled in the midfl: of the niarflies
which cover the road from Civita Vecchia to
Rome, would embarrass the enemy.
Died—On Friday last, in the 3oth year of
his age, Mr. Thomas one of the Prin
ters to the Houfir of Representatives of this
State. He b*s left a wife and four small chil
dren, to lament the loft of a husband and fa
ther. Though his illness was tedious and se
vere, he bore it without complaining, and died
without a figh.—lt may be truly said of him,
u That the end oj this man was peace.*'
Died, at Wilmington, North-Carolin, Bri
gadier-General Thomas Clark of the late con
tinental arruy—lt is but justice to the me
mory of this Patriot to fay, he pofiefled in an
eminent degree every qualification that cha
racterizes the great and the good citizen ; as
a fo'dier he was brave, noble, generous and
polite ; as a friend he was sincere, obliging
and immutable. The diftinguiftieci part this
officer acted in the late war, will make his re
membrance grateful to every American.
" Died, q« the 30th day ol December, >792,
in the town of Brookfield, (Maif.) Sarah No
blc,in the toad year of her age. She was de
fqended from the family ol Drake, 111 Eall-Chcf
ter, slate of New-York.
" Until the space of three yean before her
decease, she attended todomclfic concerns with
great judgment, and her conversation wa* enter
taining and improving. She even retained fcer
rcafon to the hour of her departme. The itue
grity of h*rch»ra£lrr, dining lite, had beenfuch,
as met and received that kind treatment from
her connexions, which ierved-to alleviate the
infvmitic* of old age.
" She remembered the lime when the firfl
sermon was delivered in Eall-Chcller, by an
Kpifcopal clergyman ; who ii supposed to have
been the firll miflionaty of that order in the
ttate of N'rw-Yoik. She was able to recoiledl
whm knives and foik» weie firfl used in the city
of New-York. She was the firlt peifon who
brought tea-cups, lea,and potatoes into the town
ot Kew-Milfotd, She rememheted the rife and
prngrefsof tliofe wars, in which a great part of
Kiirope was involved, under thtrriin ot Queen
AUEC."
At a ftate'd meeting"of tie Ahieticaii Philo.
fophical Society, on the ißr.h >ni>. the follow
ing new members were duly elected
5/1 r. Coupigny, of the Society of Arts and
Sciences at Cape-Francois.
Mr. Valentin, of da.
John Adams, 1.1.d. Vicc-Prcfident of the
United States.
Dr. Da\T£» Nassy, of Philadelphia.
Dr. George Logan, Philadelphia county.
John \V. Kittbra* of the Home ot llepi
ientativcS of the United State...
Extratt from the mi nines,
Jonathan \\ illiaa \s f jun. Sec.
MAKIUAGE A LA MODE, IK BOSTON.
Marritiij. Thurfcluy Evening last,
Citizen Lathrop, Citizen Jonathan Wild, W
Cit£ls Ma*v, daughter to Citizen Sami'fi.
llidgway. toijkn <>az.
PARIS, November i
The Parilians are now all confidence in the
success of the new fyUem—'-thus writes a po
pular Journal*!# :
" The old French monarchy was a veflM
that leaked at every feau:—at length, to fcom
plete its cataitroplie, it has taken fire and
burnt down to the water's edge, while all
who adhered to the wreck have perished. It
now remains to confrruft a firip, that may re
list every attack of the elements. The poli
tical horizon is cleared of the clouds which
have hitherto darkened it-*—the fun of liberty
has purified it—conspiracy is annihilated.
In a lhort fpafce of time—in a month—we
lliall have all the materials in readiness re
quisite for the conftruftion of that august mo
nument, which is to replace the Gothic edi
fice of Feudality. A new declaration of
rights should be presented to tiie Convention,
and then let t,hem forget all ther private quar*
rels, and employ themselves solely on the bu
fmefs they went called upo* by their consti
tuents to tranfatfh" With all our hearts
we agree with this writer ; but will fa6l ion
thus expire before the wish oV pntriotifi.i ?
Extra ft Jrom tie Ley den Gazette, to November id>.
I, The sudden change of affairs, with le
tgard to the combined invaders of France, i<
to many a perfect mystery. How is it to be
accounted lor, fay they, that after fnch a fuc
cefsful progress the Duke of Brunlwicjc' sud
denly halted in his career, between St. Matey
houid and Cha/ons—and how was it poflible,
that after such a variety cf movements, no
one of which materially injured his plans, he
fliould all at once abandon the cause he had
undertaken, and make an inglorious retreat,
worse in its conferences to him than the ab
solute loss of a battle? We need no longer
'wonder, however, at this event when we con
lider that the fore ft of Argonne is the Tftci
mcpy/iz of France ; and that their new repub
lic is chiefly indebted to the discernment of
General Kellerman in timely poi&fling tliis
invincible pojft, Thi?, aiuLkivfuftaining with
so nuch firmnefs the cannonade of the aoth of
September, compleatly deranged all the plans
of the Dukfe of Brunfwick.
2. As to the army of the French Emigrants,
it is broken up and difmilled. These wretcl -
ed men have received a letter of litenfe from
Marshal Broglio, bv which they are permitted
to go whereever they fee fit, with an ex
ception, however, to rejorr the main attry at the
earlicfi requisition : a clause that leems to have
been added merely to aggravate defpoit. In
fact, in this permit, neither their names nor
places of abode are mentioned ; but they are
advised to recommend themselves in the belt
manner they can to such powers as (hall be
disposed to receive them. They are, indeed,
real ohjefts of pity, and especially thole a
mong them who quitted their country and
property from disinterested motives. Great
numbers have determined to return into
France at all events; and are daily falling,
for almost nothing, their coaches, horfei, &e.
&c. Such of these mifetable people as are at>
folutely without means, and know not where
to go, ar* to be quartered at Malmedy.
3- The recent events of this campaign have
wholly difappoitited the projected plan ofhold
ing a pacific Congress at Luxembourg; at
least, there is no probability of such an event
taking place this year. The French, in the
career of their success, seem determined to
carry the most unqualified liberty through
Europe, and, extravagant as it m?.y seem,
talk of nothing but exterminating tyrants
from every corner of the civilized world.
4- Much has been said of Spain joining the
belligerent league against France • It is true
they are putting their frontier into a state of
defence, but that is all, and merely meant by
way of precaution, and not of offenfive war
fare. The rejection of royal government in
France has occasioned a prodigious shock in
the minds of the Spaniards, but the prime mi
nister seems fully convinced that war with
France cannot be otherwise than ruinous to
Spain ; there i», therefore, every reason to
think that he will persist in his pacific system,
notwithstanding remonstrances from every
part of the kingdom, urging to a contrary
measure. Add to this, that the.influence of
the clergy ii in a declining way in Spain, who
in any other age than the prei'ent might have
influenced, the crown in the liipport of
potifm.
J. The Englilh seem not to have viewed
wiili a complainant eve the French maritime
expedition to the Mediterranean. Letters
from Antiba mention, that admiral Truguet
has taken a large English (hip going into Nice
with a load ot" Muflcets, and other military
store;. She was conducted to a fafe port.
PRICE OF STdCKS,
6 p-r Ccr.M,
3 per Ccnis, 11fS
Deferred,
lull Ihirt-s Bank. U. S. 3 i per prej},
»9/9
11/9
1 2j%FOR SALE,
By the Subjctiber, at Walnut-Street Whurf,
HILL of EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit Tor immediate ule, in piprs & quartet c»lks,
TENF.KU'FE WINE, in pints,
MIr.RRY WINE, in quarter cask»,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proof,
OLDIiRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS. BRIMSTONE, ALI.UM,
Two Bales 10-4 BLAMKEIS, aud
A bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13 4 Inch CABLE, 12c fa homs long.
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19,1793- e P 2Tn
70 se SOLD, OR LEASED
FOA SIV IN OR TI N YEARS)
TM tOLLOWI.MG
HOUSES.
ONE on Walnm-ftieet, ncir Fourth.street,
23 feet (ion!, hat two parlour* below, the
finnt one 21$ by 17$ fed, tlie pa.iour i»
18 by 14 (tel. The front room up flairs is 263
by 174 leet. There are live good chambers in
this house, befcdes the is divioed <nfo
three rooms, in two at them there arc tire
places.
The other House is 27 fret npon Walnm
ftreet, and 5? feet upon 4* h ftrret; there are iwo
good parlours below, one of them 25 by 20 1-2
feet, the other 95 by 18 1-2 fret, and fiven com
plete bed-chambers; b«fides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largest house nas *lfo a
house-keeper's room, li is intended there ihall
be a communication from both of these houses
to a neighbouring ice-house, fufficientlv large to
supply g houses. Within 50 yards of these
houses, there will be complcat ft able* and coach
houses, for both hoijfes ; iliey tyill fimfhed
ill the nioft cotnpleat manner, and the keys
ready to be delivered early in the fuminer.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
oth r half may be paid bv iufl.almei»«s, or the
whole may remain lor 5 years, paying interefl
and giving security on the premiles.
For terras of file or leal'e, apply to the Sub
scriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has Jor SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In thii city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
fixtecn shillings and fix-pcncc, per annum.
Also, a quan'itv of BAGS, that will contain two
and a half and three and a half buthels.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1792- (pvm
BY the Commiflioneis appointed to prepare
the Public Buildings, &c. within the Ci»v
of Walhington, ior the reception of Congress
and for their permanent icfidence after the year
1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars,
I4$T OF PRIZES, viz
i Superb Hotel, with bath*,?
out houses, See.See, to coil )
i Cash Prize
1 ditto
1 dilto
1 ditto
2 ditto
io ditto
20 ditto
too ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
5,000 are
1,000
500
>00
5°
2 5
20
16,737 Piizes
33,263 Blanks
50,000
The sole design of this Lottery being 10 facili
tate other improvements together with thePnblic
Buildings—it is the particular defirc of the Com
miflioncis that these may be efft&ed with as
few deductions Irorn the Prizes as poflible—how
far their endeavors may be answered, the Scheme
of the Lottery will dcir.onllrate. The keys of
the Hotel, when complcat, will be delivered tp
the fortunate poffdTor of the ticket drawn a
agaioft its number.
All the other prizes will be paid, without
dedudiony in one month after the drawings by
the City Treafurcr at Walhington, of at such
Bank or Bunks as may be hereafter announced.
The will commence on Monday the
gth ot Sept cm be i next, at ihe City of Washing
ton.
Tit kets m»v he had of Col. Wm. Dickens u C\tv
iTi eafurrr of Walhington ;of MefTrJ. amcs Wejl
& Co. Baltimore ; of Mr. Piter Gilmariy Boston ;
and at such other placcs as will be hereafter
publifticd.
N. B. O&E HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given tor the bell Plan ol an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and othrr out houses, if prejented
fin or be/ore the 10th oj April next; and a pre
ference will be n to the Artist for a Con
lia£f, provided lie be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erected, will
be a corncr lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the ftablrs, &c. Seflions and
eftimatcs of the expense will be rxpe&ed
"with the elevations, &c. eomplrat ; and 50,000
dollars must be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost in the cxprnl'e intended lor this
purpofc. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
fanuar\ iq.
A large Cellar to Let,
Sufficiently capacious to Jtore ftveral hundred ban els.
Enquire ot ihc Paxils*.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
HovklciUr, at the in Second jlrect t
VOLUME VII, of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY or ARTS, SCIENCES,
MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new
BY WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
THE History, Theory, and Police, of cacb,
according to the Latcft Discoveries and im
provements : and lull Explanations given of the
various detached parts of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural and Artificial Objects, or to
Matters Eccltftalkical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, See. Including Elucidations of the tnoft im
portant Topics relative to Religion,Mora!s,Man
nrrj, and the Oecouomy of L'le : together with
a D Icription of all the Countries, Cities, pi in
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, &'throughout
the World; a General Hiftoiy, Ancient and
Modem, of the different Empires, Kingdoms,
and States; and an account of the Lives of the
inoft Eminent Per,fons in everv Nation, from the
earlielt ages dow nto the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the belt author*, in
several Languages ; the moll approved Dictiona
ries, as well of General Science as of particular
branches; the Tranlaftions, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned focietics, both at home and
abroad—the MS. ltftures of eminent profeflors
on different Sciences : and a variety of original
Materials, furnifhed by an extensive Correspon
dence.
The Seventh Volume contains a description
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange,' Expe
rimental Philosophy, Svftem of Farriery, Feudal
fyftcm, Fire, fixed Air,Fluxiorts, Food, Fortifica
tion, Foflils, history of France, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Glass,
See. with a variety of articles in natural history,
biography and mifcellanie?. Illustrated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the purpose) which
will be occasionally renewed befoie they con
trail a worn appearance.
11. The work is lurnifhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the*
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcribmg, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the priceof one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unlefspaid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
iar exceed in number ihofe given in any other
fcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It isexpciled the woik will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
$3" Those who wilh to bccome poflcflors of
this valuable work will please to be early in their
applications, as the fubfeription is nearly closed.
50,coo
25,000
20,CC0
15,C00
10,000
io,oco
10,000
10,000
10,000
Jan. 23.
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will be of
fered lor sale at au£lion, by the Commis
sioners, on the 17th day of September next.—
One lourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the rcfiducat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interefton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
10,000
10,000
£o,o®o
350,000
Dollars 350,000
Extract of an A£l of the General AfTembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ol Washington.
M Beit cna&cd, That any foreigner may by
deed or will, hereafter to he made. take and hold lands
within that part of the Jaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him, and tranfinitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of this State : Provided, That no foreigner shall,
in virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen
Jan. 19,
r pHE Suhfcribers having been appointed a
X committee of the Board of theTrufteesof
the University of North-Carolina, for the pur
pose ot receiving proposals from such gentlemen
as may intend to undertake the inftru&ion of
youth in that institution, take the opportunity
of making known to the public their wish ihat
such gentlemen should (Vgnity their inclination
to the fubferibers.
The objc£b to which it is contemplated by
the Board to turn the attention of the ftud> nts,
on the fir ft establishment, arc—The Uudy of
Languages, particularly the Englifh—Hiltory,
artcient and mortem —the BclJe-lettres—Logic
and Moral Philosophy—the knowledge of the
Mathematics and Natural Philolophy—Agricul
ture and Botany, with the principles of ArchU
tenure.
Gentlemen conversant in thtTe branches of
Science.and Literature, and who can be well re
commended, will reccive very handsome encou
ragement by the Board. The rxercifes of the
initiation will commence as early as poflible
after Ihc completion of the buildings of the Uui
vtrfity, which arc to be eontrafled "for immtdi-
SAMUEL A SHE,
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAYE,
DAVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLES.
a;clv
PHILADELfHIA,
AND
arc digeifced into the Form of Diitintt,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS :
COMPREHENDING
CONDITIONS.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Cem'rs.
To the Public.
£*5 ep2in
280
Insurance Company.
AT a general meeting (by ad journment) of
the lnfurai.ee Company of Noitn-America,
on Wednefdiy the i6ih inttant,
It was Rcfolved,
THAT the InftalmentJ which, according o
the Conftiiution, will become due on the fccon
Monday of July and January next, or either ol
them, may be paid by any Stockholder at
earlier period i and any Stockholder so paying
iucii inlhlment, or infialmenis, lhall rcce,vt *
proportionate Ihareofihe Dividend, 'hcrealter
to be made, calculating such share from the firfl
day of the month fuccceding Inch payroenu re
fptaively. Exiraft fiom the Minutes,
EBKN. HAZARD, Secjry.
KBttodifphia, Jan. 23.
BWKOFTHE UNITED STATES.
RtSOI.VID,
HPHAT the Cashier be authorited to receive
i. from the proprietor of any number of com
plex Iharcs, such Certificates, not in his own
name, as he may be the proprietor of; and after
cancelling the fatne, to ilfuc a new Certificate or
Certificates in lieu thereof, in the name of inch
F< R Eiolv id. That in all future tiansfers of
com pica: fharet in the capital flock of ihe Bank,
the Certificates of the Iharen tianslerred be can
celled, and a new Certificate or Certificates be
issued it) the name of the transferee or purchaler.
Resolved, That the Certificates in
issued, be foi one or more shares, as the pro
prietor may request ; and the new Certificate or
Certificates {hall be of correspondent numbers
wilh those 'in lieu of which ihry arc issued.
ep3 w JOHN REAM, Cashier.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
Philadelphia, January 7, 1793.
XTIOFICE i» hereby given, that there will be
JN "paid at the Bank, after the 17th instant, to
the Stockholders or their Reprefentativcs duly
authorized, the following sums, being the Divi
dend declared for the lad fix months, viz.
For each (hare bearing dividend from the lft
of July, Sixteen Dollan.
FOl each fharc bearing dividend from the ill
of August, Fifteen Dollars, 33 Cents.
For each lhare bearing dividend from the ill
of September, Fourteen Dollars, 67 Cenis.
For each (bare bearing dividend Irotn the ift
ofOSobrr, Fourteen Dollars.
For each (bare bearing dividend from the ift
of November, Thirteen Dollars, 33 Cents
For each (bare bearing dividend Irom the ill
of December, Twelve Dollars, 67 Cents.
For each three-quarter Ibare, Twelve Dollars.
By order of the Prelident and Directors,
3W JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful fituaiion on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of dire£tion towards the Federal
City and GeArgeTown,in full view of each place,
commanding a profpett of the river and adjacent
country ot Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres ol Land, lying di
rectly on the river, will be fold, with the im
provements, whicti are, a two-story framed
d welliiip-houfe, neatly finiftied, a kitchen, office,
brick smoke-house and dairy, two-story framed
barn, a well of excellent water, arid an ice
hou(e, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
celTary improvements ; the whole of the land
enclofcd with posts and rails, tenor fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its
contiguity to those three towns rnuft; render it an
object worthy the attention of any person who
wilhes to invest money in a property that mud
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in
crease ot the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central situation to each place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep shore and harbour,
capable of receiving vefTels of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
F*rry might be ere&ed here to the Citv of
Washington and the Maryland shores leading to
iMiwrmore aod Philadelphia. — Also *o Cell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which will futt well to supply the above in
wood arid timber. The title may be seen to the
above property, which is indifputablo, and terms
known by apolication to the fubferiber, living
on the premises,
December i2th> 1792.
50 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the #Jjth instant, a likely Ne
gro Man called Isaac, about twenty-three
yearsoid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made tellow, fond of talking, has a large
tnouth, and (hows his teeth very much when
talking ; had on when he went away, a brown
linen ftnrt, a fhcirt white kersey over jacket with
a very high collar and plain bread, with buttons
which appear to have been vtry gav ; a pair of
white kcifcy breeches, a pair of white knit yarn
flotkings, a pair of Ihocs with firings in them,
and a coarse hat ; nil the above clothes are al
most new. Said Negro was fprmcrly, the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas,' late of Kent
County, near George-Town Gross Roads, de
cviVfd, and has tor several years btien cmploved
in that neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr.
Maxwell, and lately by Messrs. John and James
Carmack, as a waggoner, which buhnefs lie is
well acquainted with, and is what be prefers ;
and has been engaged in driving a Waggon from
(aid Cross-Roads to Duck-Creek, &c. until
August last. I expe£l he will make his way for
the neighbourhoods of George-Town, Dack-
Creek'i Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will be paid if delivered to me in this
place, or Thirty Dollais if fccured in any goal,
so that I get him again. He is an'anful fellcfw,
and wh<*fi taken, will make his efcapc, unless
particularly fccured.
Eastok,
TaliolCounty, Maryland, Dec. 28, 1790
THE Subscriber will convey forever, by
good and fufficient deed, Thirty Lots iu
the City of Washington, situated on South
Capitol Street, to any man or company of
men—provided they will agree to erert there
on good and fufficient brick houses, vrittua
threj years from the date hereof.
THE Officers of the late New-Jeifty iine are
requeiltd to meet at the houl ot James
Drake, in Ncw-Biunlwick, on Thurfuay ihe
tevenih day of February next, at the h<»ur ot Ten
in the morning, to take inio
application of different lines of the late
now before the of the United Siaies.
JOHN CUMMING,
JONATHAN RHEA.
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or between Providencc
and Boston, a very small TRUNK, covered
with seal-skin of a reddish colour, with white
spots. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Carolina State Notes, and a few of the
State of Rhode-Hland ; with other papers,which
can only be serviceable to the proprietor. The
State notes are cheeked at the offices trom whence
they iflfued. Any person producing the Trunk
(with its contents) to JOHN MARSTON, of
Boston, WILLIAM HALL, of Providence,
MeilYs PATERSON and BRASHER, New-
York, cr Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, shall receive the above reward, or for any
part of the pr*pertv, OneHundied Dollars.
Boston, Nov. 28. eptf.
BOWEN's EXHIBITIONS OF
W ax- YV ork &Paiiuings,
AHE open every day and evening (Sundays
excepted) at the House lately occupied
by Mrs. Pinl, No. 9, North Eighth-street.
First Room—Contains upwards of 103
elegant Paintings, and about 3 3 Wax Figures,
in full ftature —among which are Likeneifes
of a number of the principal ciiarafters in
America; Baron Trenck in chains, an Indian
Chief, and several beautiful young Ladies of
different States, ftc. &c.
Second Room—Contains eighteen large
Wax Figures, which form a SocrAiLE Ctiij,
or the Oyster Sup-per ; and the School for
Scandal, consisting of twelve female
making their observations on a youtig Lady,
who had eloped with a Footman.
Admittance One Quarter of a Dollar eaeh
Room.
BALDWIN DADE,
ep 2 m
OWEN' KENNAKD.
Federal City.
DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington*
City of Wajhinglony Dec. 1792. 61
January 16th, 1793.
Philadelphia, Januarys 1793.
Mathew Carey
Rfefbc£tfully informs the Citizens of the United
Stales, 1 Hat the Maps for his iOJ>rndfvi
edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving—awl as fqon as a ftimcient
number of them arefinifhed, to secure a re
gular supply during the publication, which
will piobably be early next Spring, the work
will be put to press
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpe£fcable number of Subscribers, who have
come forward thus early to patronize this ardu
ous undertaking. He assures them and the pub
lic in general, that no pains or expeule (hall be
spared in the execution of the work.
Terms of the Work :
I. IT (hall be published in 48 weekly numbers,
each containing three sheets, or t\venvy»four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, piinted with
new types on fine papei.
11. In the course of the work will be deliver
ed about thirty large maps, of the fame size as
tbofe in the European editions, viz. mod of them
(hect maps on post naper.
(J3* Bcfidei the maps in the Briti/h editions, this
work uuitl contain nine or ten Jm£ncan &tw€
111. The price of each number will be a
quarter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance required.
IV. Sublcribers who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three fhft nurnbeis, are
to be at liberty to return them, and shall have
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibers* names (hall be prefixed
as patrons of the undertaking.
* # * Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publisher ; in New-York, by all
the bookfelleis *, in New-Haven, by Mr. Beers;
in Hartford, by Mr. Patten; in Bofton,by Mess.
Thomas & Aodiew&, and by Mr. Wert ; in Bal
timore, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond, by Mr.
J. Carey; in Charlcfton, by Mr. W. P. Young,
and by sundry other pcrfons throughout the
United States. (lawti)
PLANS
OF THE
City of Wafliington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOU KG, (3 CM 'tiWANK.
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Great Dock-ftrett, New-York,
r T" , HE-Subfcribcr intending to confine himfclf
I entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE oh
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begsieave to oftrr
his lei vices to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Brokfcr. Those who may please to fa
vor him with their bufuiefs,"may depend upon
having it tranfa&ed with the utrooft fidelity and
, d,ifpatch.
Orders from Philadelphia,3ofton,or any other
part of the United States will be ftrifUy attend
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKER-
(c.f.)