. ■ ... • ,• ..
A NATIONAL PAPER, PU BLISHI.D WE ON KSD AYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NvRIH FIFTH-STREET, PH IL A DKLPHI A.
[No. 79 of Vol. IV.]
JCaNGRESS.
BOUSE OF RFPRt.SrNTATIVFS.
SATURDAY, February 16.
IV committee of the whole on the bill to ef
tablifii fees to be paid on the transfer of pub
lic securities.
Mr. Steele in the chair.
The bill v.'as read by the chairman —an a
mendment was propofcd, which was, to strike
out the last line of the bill, and to fubllitute a
clause providing for the disposal of the fees,
which are to be received by the Comptroller of
the Treasury and the Loan-Offices.
Mr. said he did not know whether
he should vote for the bill or not; at. prefsnt he
had his doubts on the expediency of departing
from a principle eftablifhtd in the government,
which is, that public officers fliould becompen
fated for their lervices without being authorised
to receive any feeS. This principle has been
adhered to in all cases whete it was praflicable;
and i' mill appear the nioft eligible mode when
it is corfidered how difficult it is to guard a
gainst abnfes and frauds: he considered 4t would
TO if not impoflible, :o pri>-
vide adtqua e checks nrthe^brctirfefa.
Mr. Benfon objefled to the provitlon gene
rally, he confidercd it as laying a tax on a par
ticular species of property already encumbered
with variou«reftridtionsinrefpe>ft to which there
is no option left to one of the parties. The go
v rnm nt has prefcribcd for its own security a
particular process i.i the business of transferring
pr.blit certificate*. He saw 110 reason in impof
inga tax in addition to thete regulations.
\>r avton, in replying to Mr. Fitzfimons
ob (' ved I." the process of the business inmak
ifig the t - 'rs atthefeveral Loan Offices would
afford ■ ' tunity to provide compleat and
adij.m;; any ahufe in the business
or em'ic**': it 0f the fees; the names of the
par :, r.tffed in bqoks kept for the
j> ; ! ♦ would f'.unilh the neceffary_
c: U : -'. fpecSl to the objsdlipD-»"''ng
fr..; m • he c ""-
ceive> spp. y with any greater forcc
flfan what might be urged again <1 fees imposed
on deeds, &c. Mr. Davton conceived that as a
hod of clerks were employed in the Treasury
Dirpartmant on thfs hufinefs of tiSnafer which
was done for the benefit of individuals,'be tho't j
it no more than reasonable that they Ihould pay
the expence.
Mr. Clark followed Mr. Dayton in a train of
similar observations; he laid he saw no difficul
ty in, the business, the expence wiil fall on the
speculators only.
Mr. Sturgesfaid, it appeared to him that the
bill would operate as an infraction of the law
shaking provision for the public debt; he con
ceived that that law does not contemplate any
charge being paid by the proprietors of public
securities for transferring the certificates . they
never supposed that they would be clogged with
any such charge. In this view of the fubjed he
Ihould be oppofedto the bill.
Mr. Benfon replied to Mr. Dayton's remarks
on the tax imposed on deeds; he said the cases
are rotparellel. In th* present cafe there is ho
option to the public creditors; the government
has already prescribed how this bufiliefs shall be
don*; it must therefore be considered as a breach
of the rights of the creditors. With refpedt to
the expence* falling exciufively on speculators,
he said the gentleman was mi (taken, and men
tioned an infbance,to fliew that perfom who are
not speculators will be fubjedl to the tax. Mr.
TSenfon doubted the propriety however, of a re
gulation which ihould operate so partially He
very much doubted the legality of framing a tax
that Ihould be pointed at any class of citizens in
particular.
Mr. Mercer, after a few mtrodu&ory remarks
on the general utility of public institutions, and
the obligation which every citizen is under to
support them, remarked, that however true this
principle is, yet it is but just that those who de
rive peculiar personal advantagesfrom these in
stitutions, Ihould pay foi those advantage*. He
applied this reasoning to the cafe in hand, and
obferved,that on this principle he thought the
provision contemplated by the bill was reafona
bls and just. With refpeii to taxing the proper
ty in the funds, he remarked, that the fubjeCfc in
volved the moll extensive conliderations. He
ihould not at present enter into a difcuflion of
them; but,he observed, that it wa9 clearly his
opinion, that that specie* of property was liable
to taxation in common with every other; and
this idea he said was famflioned by the usages
tuftoms of nations.
Mr. Barnwell said it appeared to him that
the particular regulation eftablilhed in the Trea
sury department were made for the public ad
vantage : if so, he could not fee the justice of
throwing the expence on individuals. If the bill
fliould be fuilained,he contended that the indi
viduals should have the alternative of transferr
ing or not, as is the cafe in refpeft to deeds. He
ihould therefore be opposed to the bill unless
fbme provision for an alternative Ihould accom
pany it.
Mr. Ottrj ohje&ed to the bill on general
principle*; he iUted (undry confcqiwnces cx
Saturday, 2. 1795.
tremely injurious to the publte credit, which
might be grafted on the principle contained in
the regulation proofed.
Mr. Boudinot observed t" at when the propo
rtion was firft brought forward, he entertained
a favourable idea of the provision ; he had not,
however, till this morning, critically examined
the operation of the principle in relation to the
contra& between the Government and the pub- j
lie creditors : He was indebted, he said, to the
gentleman from New-York for the idea of an
interference. Mr. B. then analyzed the provi
sion refpedhng the public debt, in order to fhewj
that the regulations adopted were considered as
final and conclusive; full *nd compleat provifipn
was made to defray the expence by the govern
ment ; from hence he deduced this consequence
that the tax contemplated would have a retro
fpe&ive afpc&, would interfere with the flipula
tions of the contract, and go to injuring the
public credit effentiaUy; for, said he, if Con
gress can lay a tax on the transfer of the public
securities, they may extend the principle to such
a degree as to interdict all transfers whatever,
yea to taxing the debt—an idea he conceived
totally fubvedive of public credit.
remarWd, tlfe reasoning of
his coileaguc, and of the gentleman from Maffa
chulet'rs (Mr. Gerry) went too far,it would ap
ply to every fptcies of imposition whatever; and
the government would thereby be in effe6l pre
cluded from laying any duties on Impost and ton
nage.
Mr. S. Bourne was in favour of the bill—he
cited precedents from Probate and other Offices
in the several states, to fliew that paying fees
w. s customary, and was submitted to by the
people; the parties deriving the benefit, it is
universally conceived should bear the expence
incurred.
With refpeft to the fee 9 he conceived the pre
cedent is already established by the government,
fees are paid in the department of state : these
fees are accounted for to» the Secretary of the
Treasury—he thought a similar mode might he
adopted in the present cafe ; let the fees be paid
for the benefit of the United States, and let the
several officers account with the head of the
Treasury department for the fame, who will ac-
c ount to the legislature.
t Mr. Clark bill by furthe*-*»«..
marks; he extended his ideas toTEaxlrijythepub
lic fccu ities; this expedient, he said, the public
exigencies may poflibly require. He repeated
his observations relative to the number of clerks
in the Treasury, employed on the business of
transfers; the great expence hereby incurred he
said was for the advantage of speculators, of
which a host was colle&ed in a neighbouring
city ; where, as from a center they extended,
their negociations to all parts of the Union.
Mr. Lawrance laid he always considered it
as indicative of the badness of a cause, when a
person descends to general invectives against
public bodies; —he alluded to Mr. Clark's re
flection on the city of New-York. Mr. C. said,
he had not mentioned New-York. Mr. Law
rance said his remark was applicable to the
gentleman's refle<stioin,let him refer to any city
whatever, Mr. Lawrance then entered into a
general consideration of the fubje&, and stated
the various steps of the process prescribed by the
funding law in relation to transfers. The de
du&ions he drew were similar to those made by
Mr. Ben foil.
Mr. Murray was agairft the bill—he tho't
it wrong in principle, and thinking lb, no ar
gument fpejcioufly drawn from a final! gain to
the public whiah it_\vas unworthy in them to
demand, (hoiild tempt him to vote for it.
He declared that when the bill was fir ft no
ticed —his reflections h'ad preftnted the provt
fion merely in a sort-os analogy with fee? juft
lv demanded in courts, and in common civ : l
oJiices, as oifices for the registering of deed
—But the moment the course of his reflexi
ons had traced the fub}e£fc in that analogy, he
discovered a strong and insuperable obje&ior.
These inftiturions, for the li.poort of which
fees were derir; ndable from such as had busi
ness, were fucli as the law eftablifned for tie
intercourse between one individual and ano
ther—here, on the contrary, the law relates
to a proceeding in which a debtor pubi c is to
transfer its promiftbry notes to individual cre
ditors—The public is a debtor—has iflucd ne
gotiable paper, part t f the value of which de
pends on t'le i'i ility of negociation—the ne
cessity ef regifttfjfcig transfers being merely to
fccurc the publ trr-As the debt was -übferibed
under t le idea vf trailers being of ex
pence, so to force the pur ties to pay fees would
diminish the value of the piopert}—for if it
be an cxpecfe now to the public, and that ex
penfe lie intended to be taxed on the thing
transferred, it would amount to something
like diminiihing of the debt without d) (charg
ing it. There is a (olid diiference between
laws that regulate fees to be paid on the trans
actions between man and man, and such as
relate to t ran fa <51 ions like this between a debt
or public and an individual creditor —If a
debtor const tutes a debt of a negotiable kind,
and at the time ofiffuing bis note makes each
transfer necetiarily to depend on an ai°t of his
own, We cannot expect to be paid for this—
313
l'iquality farms a part of the value he has
parted from.
The debate on the fub'efl was continued till
a late hour ; several other gentlemen spoke on
the occpfion.
The motion to amend the bill was at length
agreed to, the committee then rpfe arid reported
accordingly.
The bill and the amendment were laid on the
table.
Foreign Affairs.
PARIS, December 23.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Saturday, December 1 5.
Letter from Lieutenant-General Miranda.
' " Head Quarters General at
Ruremond, Dec. ft.
" Tbe citadel of Antwerp being taken,and
the navigation ofthe Scheldt opened,l inarch
ed forward on tbe 6th current with the army
under mv command, to attack Austrian Guel
dres, This mmcU.ofaSJtaguesfor the most
pin . .i'er a wild country, was executed with
aftoniiiing order and rapidity. On our ar
rival at the Mettfe, we found several posts of
tlie entmy, which the vanppiard easily requir
ed, Imingtaken some of them prisoners. We
took possession alio without opposition of the
townsof Wefem and Wert, belonging to Aus
trian fiueldres, and of all the territory on
this fide of the Meufe. We then crofTed that
river ;t the town of Wefem, by means of
some boats, as the enemy had destroyed all
their lying bridges. In Ihort, with 3000 in
fantry, and 300 buffars, we attacked our ene
mies, <vho, to the number of 3000 infantry,
and 3so cavalry had retired to Ruremond.
At break of day the head of our army having
appeared before Ruremond, found the bi idge
on tie Roer burnt. Our cavalry finding a
ford,,pafted the river, and the infantry effect
ed a falfage, by procuring pontoons. At nine
in thi morning, our troops entered the Capi
tal olGueldrcs in triumph, amidst the accla
mations of tbe inhabitants, who, in their joy,
invo!«d liberty, and blessed the French who
had lipught thr.m that prefcnt.
" 1 then found by the best information,
theenemy to the number of 3»5 30 regular
troops, commanded by General Gentreuil,bad
retired precipitately at five in the morning.
The Austrian Council, or government of the
Netherlands, who had taken refuge here, did
the fame four or five days before. My van
guard, which I immediately sent in pursuit of
the enemy, will not fail to come up with them
in their flight. Some of the inhabitants of
Prussian Gueldres, have already presented
themselves before me; to offer me their Cer
vices, and to solicit the fame happiness which
Austrian Gueldres mnft enjoy under the egis
of France.
(Signed)
After the reading of the above, Cambon in
the name of the military and Diplomatic Com
mittees, said, that the progress of liberty
should no longer be checked. 14 You must
(said he) freely declare our revolutionary
power in every country which weentcr. You
mnft overturn eftablilhed conftitutionr, and
cnnvoke primary afiemblies. This, instead
of infrjjfginp; oil the fovereigoty of nations is
eAablifhing it. 1 now present a decree for
that purpo'e."
I. The Generals in all those countries,
which are, or may be occupied by our armies,
lhail immediately proclaim in the name ef
the Republic, the abolition of the ancient
contributions, nobility, taxes, feudal right',
real and perfonat servitude, the exclulive right
of tumung and fifliing, and all privileges.
They aifo declare to the people, that they
bring them pcape, liberty and fraternity.
11. They, (ball declare at the fame time
that the constituted authorities are suppressed.
They (hall pioc'-im the lovereigntv of the
people. They (hai> convoke the Primary Af
femi'ltes to elect Judges and provifioiial Ad
njiniftvators, anil fliatt post up the Proclama
tion of this dcx. ee.
111. No on; can be admitted into the Pri
mary AifemWy, nor lie eietled a Judge or Ad
minifUator, if he has not taken an oath to be
fait'-.fyt and Equality, and if he has
not reiioß«ci-d all the privileges which hn en
joyed. ' &i.c r.ember< of the existing admi
ni(lr?tl»r>s and judicial powers cannot be oo
minatfrf »n the firft election.
IV. The National Convention shall ap
point commifliorers ciiofen from their own
bodv, to go and tofraternife with the people.
V. The Council (hall also ap
point Commiifioners for the fame end, and to
regulate the 'um due to the republic for the
expences it may have incurred.
VI. They (hall give an account of their
proceedings every fifteen days.
VII. The Fxeuc'n Republic (hall keep an
accAint of the expenccs it has beijn at, and
Iba'.l make arrangements for the payment of
tliefe expences.
VIII. The French ration declares, that it
will consider as enemies those people, who,
liberty, shall enter into accommoda
tion or negocjation with their tyrants.
IX. The French nation swears never to
lay clown its arms until the countries int»
which thev have entered shall be free and
their liberty fecmed.
The Proclamation referred to above was
then read. It wis in substance the lame as
the above decree, and was ordered to be sent
to the Generics by extraordinary couriers.
Sunday, December 16.
A letter was Tent to the Prefideht, ftating 1 ,
that the Rovalifts were beginning to shew
themselves ; and, that many writings were
circulated in favor of Louis s XVl.
Thuriot—" This is certainly true ; but
the best means of bringing hack tranquility,
and fupprclTing faction, will be to Decree,that
whoever {hall propose, or attempt to break
the unity of the Republic, or to detach any
part of it, in order to unite it to a foreign
country, fliall be punished with death.''—
Decreed.
Buzot-— 14 If this dec ee fe'ves to bring
baclf confidence, I fliatl propose another which
will tond fttl) to scco*iipri'ffi that objedt.
The Throne f* orcrtnrrred—tfce tyrant will
foon'he no more, hut despotism exists ;
its ancient habit?, its creatures ftiW exist ;
let us iipitare the Romans, they expelled
Tarquiw and his family;—like them let us
banish the family of the Bourbons. Louis
XVI. criminal and in chains is now not dan
gerous : we miift however facrifice him to
our fafety, and banish his family. If any Cfc
ception is to he made, it must not be in lavor
of the branch of Orleans. Thole who are the
most beloved a e the most dangerous. The
name of Bourbon is odious to every true Re
publican, and that of Fga/ify is so much the
more lingular as he a!Te<sb to conceal it. His
children have great courage, and they may
form alliances with the daughters of Princes.
I think them dangerous. If Orleans has made
facrifices to Liberty let him add to them, that
of delivering us from his p efence and froni
the lad branches of tie family of the Capets.
Charles I. died on the fcaffold, and yet En
gland recalled his son. The Lords placed
Charles 11. on the Throne. We have no more
Princes,but monarchy has its superstitious vo
r»»4e*» tfre~namc of King, and we
shall cease to be divided—drive from you eve
ry thing that may bring back arbitrary pow-
er."
Louvet—lil1 il I support this motior, and in
my opinion, except Antonietta and her son,
refpe&ing the fate of whom the Convention
re'erve to them r elves the right to determine,
every individual of the family ought to quit
France in 24 hours after the trial of Louis,
and to be punished with death if they return."
Laujuinais Remember the manner in* which
Egalire was ele&ed. Remember that the armies
are in the hands of his son are beloved
by the {©Idlers, and they defrrve to be To on ac
count of their bravery. K emember also, that an
attempt was made to get a person who was for
merly only Chancellor to F.galite, appointed
Minister at W?r ; any one may comprehend
these hints : Wedeteft Royalty—let us therefore
prove it by banifhwg all the relations of the ty
rant.
" MIRANDA."
Chabot.— If you wifli to exercise ostracism,
vf-'U must not confinc it to the family of the
Caocu.
The Convention, after some further re
marks, decreed by acclamation, That
" All the members of the family of the
BOurbonrs, Capets, except those who are de
tained at the Temple, {hall quit the depart
ment of Paris in 24 hours, and in three days
the territories of the Republic and the coun
tiies in which the French armies prelently
are."
The Convention likewise decree, that the
Ministers Pache and Roland should t>e replac
ed, and that the Committee of Constitution
should prefcnt, in as (hort a time as pofTible, a
pian for organizing an Executive Council aj>
pointed by the people.
JCerfaiiit. I request the Convention to lecoJ
!c£t the fatal epoch, when England, which al
ways takes advantage of the faults of the French
Government, caused to he exiled bv its intrigues
in 1757, M. D'Argcnfon and M. Machant, the
only two Ministers whose talents it dreaded, and
bv their means harried us into a difatlrous and
difgraceful war.
Pet ion Rabaud, and frveral other members
here attempted to fprak, but they were not able
to make themfelvcs heard.
Am adjournment was then twice proposed and
negatived, and Barrere proceeded to read the
firft article of a decree for banilhing the whole
family of the Bourbons, except those confined
in the Temple. A violent tumult now ensued ;
and after lons and uproar, during
which the President was twice obliged to putcn
his hat, it was refolvcd «fiat the queflion fhouid
be decreed; and that any member who might
interrupt the deliberation, fhouid be condu&ed
to the.Abbaye.
Rewbel hav'ng asked the Convention whe
ther they co\ild, without infringing the fort
reignty of the People, expel a member [Ega
lity] for no other reason than that he belonged
to this or to that family, a mod tumultuous
debate, or lather an uproar took place in tie
[Whole No. 40j.]
-Convention. The Proficient endeavored to
restore eider, and was obliged twice to put
on his hat- This confufion continued lor two
hours, dfjring the whole of which time hardly
a word could be beard.
It was at last propolird to except Egality
from the Decree, and so adjourn the quelti
ob, so far as it related to him, for three days.
This motion was adopted.
Some original Iclteu ot Mr. I.apniie, were
tjaiifmiltfd to the Convention by Madame
Olympii Degouges. who oJfcied at the fame
time to undertake the defenee ol Lmiis XVI.
On this offer the Convention proceeded lothe
order of ihc day.
Some fufptcions having beep excited irom
certain passages in the papers, n> be employed
as prootM.ga.nft Lojj* XVI. that Bailly, for.
rnerly Mayor of Paris, attempted to lavor the
flight of the ex-monarch. Bailly wiote to the
Convention, declanng, that during the whole
time of his magistracy, be alwa)i atted upon the
fame principles—the lupport of ihe law ; and
that he never favored any party or tadion what
ever.
December 2a-
A debate took place refpe&ing the existing
Committees ; Tome Members haying insisted
on the execution ot the law, which ordains,
that one half of* the Members of each ftiall, at
the end of every two be removed,
and their places be filled by new Members.
The Convention at length decreed, that
this law should be put in execution, and that
all the Committees, that of the Conllitution
excepted, ihould be one half renewed.
Couthon vemonftrated against the Decree
which ena&s, that in all countries occupied
by ths armies of the Republic, the functions
Of provisional administrators cannot be per
formed by any ci-devant Nobleman, Priest, or
Agent, of the Austrian Government. He
said the above was unjust and implicit; that
it infringed the Sovereignty of the People, so
lemnly acknowledged by the Convention;
and that it was unworthy of the reprefenta.
tives of a free nation to enchain the con
sciences of those whom they had delivered
from tyrants. He concluded by moving, that
these reftriftions might be annulled.
After some debate the motion was decreed
with an amendment—that nobility and cler
gy, before they could be elected, must have
renounced all their prerogatives and privi
leges.
Young Equality came to Paris the other
day to visit his lifter—He exclaimed, 4 1 know
they meditate our baniftiment : If the sen
tence find me here, I will instantly depart and
give an example without a murmur,ot fidelity
and fubmiflion : If it reaches me in time of
attion, I will plunge into the enemy's battal
ions, and in dying receive the consolation of
.falling for my country.' This young man
has been in seventeen anions.
• Domestic Articles.
NORFOLK, February 16.
%CJ~* NOTICE.
The Consul of the French Republic informs
the descendants of French families in this coun
try, that or. the 2111 September, 1792, the Nati
onal Aflembly enisled, on the propolal of citi
zen La Grevole, " that the Executive Ppwer
mall, without delay, enroll the names of the
French families, which were prosecuted on ac
count of religion by Louis XVI. in that they
may recover their property so unjustly connlcat-
ed."
The Conlul will fend to France, with the ut
most pkafure, the claim and gritvances of his
brethren.
The Citiztn-Conful, M. A. B. Mancourit.
January S4> >793'
and firft of the French Republic.
WINCHESTER (Vir.) February 18.
On Monday evening last a Ball was given
in commemoration of the President's Bi kth,
at Mr. Daugherty's tavern in this town. —
The occasion gave peculiar happiness to the
company, by having another opportunity of
demonstrating their fove and veneration for
that great and good citizen. The evening
was spent with great hilarity, and, among ma
ny oofcers, the following patriotic toasts were
given :
Our be'oved President, may he long be ena
bled to render his important services to a
grateful country—The Majority in Congrels;
may they continue to deserve the confidence
of their constituents—The Federal Constitu
tion ; may its basis of wisdom be invulner
able to the fhafts of revilers, or the frends of
anarchy—May unanimityand attention banish
local diftinclions in United America—May
our National Laws remove every obstacle to
the payment of honest debts—The \ ice-Pre
sident ; may his exertions in his country's
cause be still remembered —Our unfortunate
friend the Marquis de la Fayette.
EAST ON (Maryland) Feb. 19.
Monday the nth instant, being the Anni
verfary of the Birth of our beloved PreGdent r
the fame was celebrated here by the Ladies
and Gentlemen of this town and its neigh
borhood. The Ball-room was filled with La
dies, whose smiles teftified the joy with which
they embrace every opportunity of expressing
their gratitude to, and veneration for, their
protestor and benefactor. At the upper end
of the Ball-room was hungahandfome picture
of the Piefident, ornamented with a crown of
laurel and wreaths of flowers, which the La
dies had previously prepared. The Ball was
opened with the favorite dance of " The
President's Birth-Night"—and the evening
was spent with the otmoft hilarity and refined
pleafure —On no occasion have we fcen a more
bi illiant or a more happy company.
BOSTON, Feb. 16.
Ittiafl of d Utter Jrom Philadelphia.
CONGRESS are drawing to a close—there
are some important matters vet pend
ing ; but though the men who have hitherto
duuc the bulinels, are ful.citous still to do as
much as poffibk ; tliey have to encounter vet
ry extraordinary exertions made to procral
tinate almost every thing to. the next, Con
g,ef not with a with or expiation that
business will then be done better ; but, that
it will be undone. This is not ay uncharitable
luppofition —for when opposition finds its ar
guments against the principles trt nieaXures
refuted, it constantly brings forward the next
Congrel's ; and this is the concluding idea of
every declamation against doing any
prclent felfion.
I Ihould mod sincerely lament the cirtunp
ftauce, if by eletfting an anti-feileral
Malfachufetts should encreafe the junto a
gainst hcrfelf: That this would be the cafe,
should some names be brought forward, which
have so deeply pledged theiufelyes against the
public mealures already adopted, is so evi
dent, that I am aftotiiflied to fee how your
votes have run. If thole who never t,d any
thing for their country—if those whd bellow
the loudest against the Constitution, and the
laws of the union—if those who have no per
sonal honor, or private reputation are the pa
triots of our country, then will the people of
Massachusetts ast a wile and confident part
in committing the public interest to .be care
and guidance of men, who will coincide wtth
persons of the above description.
You fee what has been the result of the at
tack on the War-Department, m the Houle
The Committee on St. Clair's expeditioiyvill
probablv make a new report this week . I
think they will be puzzled—Knox will llliid
acquitted, juftified and honored, ifftr.a jus-
done, or lam much miftaken—*nd so
will Hodgdon t The Secretary of t e Tr.afu
rv comes next—He will come forth hie gold
—His friends are mistaken in the man, if his
reputation is not of more value in his own el
timation, than all she produce of Mexico fi.ee
avarice firft opened a mine. These mvefti
gations will do good, if the people art wife
and just in appreciating the merits of thfir
faithful servants —and in fliewing a proper
contempt for the (ham patriots, who raise a
smoke as a cover to facilitate their access to
public appointments —There is, howevtr,ano
ther object in these in veftigations; it is pro
crastination.
We have much talk here of resignations in
the executive departments—even of the chief
—but this I do not believe ; Mr. Jefferson
certainly <roes out in March—he has
up his houle—fome fay, the Secretary <f the
Trea r ury and the Secretary of War, will re
sign; but it is mere conjecture. Howsver,
this may be observed, that it is a most flajtant
and scandalous violation of republican princi
ples, to asperse, arraign and condemn public
characters, without mercy and without trial,
or without the ftradow ot proof : What millt
be the consequence of such conduct, hut this,
that men of honor and fenlibility will shrink
from, and avoid public trusts —their ,peaces
will be filled with thele unprincipled calum
niators, who willljefpife the public option,
while they peculate in the public interest.
The President of the United States has
come in for a due fliare of the dirt thrown
from the mud-carts of these traducers ot all
good men : But his patriotifin is proof agUinft
every aiTaulc, and the confidence and venera
tion of the friends of virtue will support him
to the end of his days, in being the protestor
and preset ver of our free and glorious Consti
tution."
On Tuesday evening departed this life, in the
601 h year of his age, John Ma n I.v, Cap
tain and Commander in the Navy of the UAited
States. This gallant officer diftinguifbed him
frlf by his esrly, spirited and fuccefslul enter
prizes during the late war. His funeral at
tended by a large concourse of citizens, thd Free
Mal'ons, and by the Independent Company of
fuzileFfs, wn'li drums (r.uffled,
music playing a solemn dirge—at the place of
interment three vollies were fired.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STAtES
Mr. Fen no,
THE jbrogrefs of truth is Jom dimesflow, but its
flcpi are always sure towards Jinat viflory over
error and deception. Sometimes it has a tedious
course to travel, and many objlatles to pass overthrown
jn its way by the inimical artifice.> oj men interejledto
keep those divided and opposed in their views oj things
who have one and theJame interifi, cause, andJtnti
ment, that ought to Unite and harmonize their minds
and meafurts. It is a pleafmg and comforting tef
tmony which the jriends of true liberty and public
virtue now fee, in the fmpathetic and joyful demon- 1
fli ations going forward, that notwithjiavding all the
manoeuvres cj a de/igring epbal agvnfl liberty, to
sow theJeedi of arijlocr&cy in tire rank foil oj ava
rice, and to manure their growth by t\eJliintflalirig
mixture of political and monied operations ; And at
the fame junflure, to sap the public confidence and
affeflion towards republican g&vr nvient, by calum
rf\ii Again (I republicans in France, and at
the principles of equality and the rights oj man among
our/elves, that notwithjlanding these things, truth is
every where lifting up her awful voice, and [peaking
I Joith the fame puie patriotic jtntiments, which) liberty
ever breathes into generous and manly hearts ; nor
can the time be far ojf' when the fame*folemn voice of
the people will proclaim their indignant Jeelings
againjl all fuck as have endeavored to turn them from
the plain path of honefl republicanijm. which leads to
the u\iverfalgood of all, and to involve them in the
msfleries oj a crooked and cunningly devised policy,
tending in the end to blind and fetter the many 9 and
to make them hewers of wood and drawers oj water
to the jew, who unftisfied with fucking up the wealth
of the community, vifibiy ajpire and aim at vaulting
into dignities, emoluments) and power independent oj
the piople. COLUMBIA.
314
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY, Feb. 26.
A report on thr petition of Lewis Pintard
„.s read, which proposes an exienfion of the
time limited for receiving drawbacks—icfeired
to the committee of the whole to-morrow.
In committee of the whole on the bill to au
thorize the grant of land to the French inhabt
tants of Gallipolis. .
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
The difcitflion of the bill engaged the com
mittee till near the time of adjournment. Va
rious verbal and other amendments were agreed
to, and reported to the house ;-thofe were
•adopted by the house, and the b.ll ordered to be
eng r ofTed for a third reading to-morrow.
The French inhabitants ot Gjllipolis purchas
ed from petfons calling themfclves Agents of the
Scioto Company, a largetraft of land, for which
thty paid a high pr.ee, on condition that the
Company would give them certain fl.pulated
afliflancc in making their fettlemcnt. They re
moved to this country from France and found
that the title of the land on which they were
featcd by the Scioto Company, is dilputed by
the Ohio Company. From motives of benevo
lence, humanity and policy, and in consequence
of their voluntary military fcrvices, a grant of
land is by the bill directed to be conveyed to
them, independent of their disputed claim to
their present fettlemcnt.
A message from the Senate, by Mr. Oils, in
formed the House that they have concurred,
with amendments, in the amendments of the
House, to the bill in addition to the att toy e.-
tablifhing the judicial courts of the United
States. ~ ,
Mr Heifter, of the committee on enrolled
bills, reported four bills as truly enrolled, viz.
" An a£t making appropriations lor the lup
port of government for the year 1793 "An
att to regulate claims to invalid ptnfions. —
" An ast to repeal the leveral lmpoll laws, lo
far as thev -impose a duty on ufeful beasts im
ported for breed." And "An ast for fettling
the claims of certain pcrfons therein mention
ed."
The Speaker signed these acts.
A committee, consisting of Mess. F.tzfimons,
Griffin and Treadwell, was appotnted to bring
in a bill to provide for the support of light
houses, beacons, buoys, and public piers, not
ceded to the United States.
A bill making an appropriation to defray the
expense of holding a treaty with the hoftilc In
dian tribes, north- *eft of the river Ohio, was
taken into consideration. An amendment re
ported yesterday by the committee oT the whole,
was agreed to, and the bill ordered to be en
grofled. • .
A message from the Senate by Mr. Otis, in
formed the House, that the Senate have co.cur
red with amendments, in two bills lent from
the House, viz. A bill to regulate trade and m
tcrcourfe with the Indian tnbes-and a bill tor
fixing the time of the next annual meeting of
Congress.
Mr. Hartley moved, that the Honfe (hould go
into a committee of the whole on the report of
the committee appointed to enquire into the
causes of the failure of the expedition under
Gen. St. Clair. This motion was not agreed to.
Mr. Livermore then moved, thtt the com
mittee of the whole (hould be difchargcd from
the consideration of said report. This motion
was made on a supposition that the time remain
ing of the feflion will not admit of finiffiing the
discussion of the ruhjeft. This motion was car
ried in the affirmative.
Mr. Madison then moved the following in
substance, viz.
Resolved, That the report of the committee
on the causes of ihe failure of the expedition
under Gen. St. Clair, ought to be printed, toge
ther with the observations of the Secretary of
War, the commanding General, and the Quar
ter-matter General, relative thereto.
Resolved, That each member of Congress be
furniflied with two copies of the fame, and that
such measures as may be eligible, be taken to
circulate them thro' the United States.
These resolutions were debated for some time;
i but without deciding, the House adjourned.
WEDNESDAY, February 27.
The bill to authorise a grant of land to the
French inhabitants of Gallipolis—and the bill
making an appropriation to defray the expences
of holding a treaty with thehoftile indian tribes
north weft of the river Ohio, were severally read
the third time and passed.
A bill supplementary to the a& providing for
the eftabliftiment and maintenance of Light
Houses, beacons, buoys, and public piers was
twice read and referred to the committee of the
whole this day.
The bill for extending the time limited for
receiving subscriptions to the loan of the United
States was twee read and committed for to
morrow.
Mr. Fitzfimona laid the following motion on
the table viz. " Resolved, that a committee be
appointed to bring in a bill to make further pro
vision for securing the collection of the duties on
foreign and domestic distilled spirits, (bills, wines*
and teas; this motion was agreed to, and refer
red to a fcled committee.
The amendments of the Senate to the amend
ments of thV houle to the bill ftipplementary
to the a& for establishing the Judicial Courts of
the United States were read ; also their amend
ments to the bill to regulate trade and inter
course with the Indian tribes.
A letter was read from the Secretary of the
Treasury, complaining of some inaccuracies in
the printing of the Reports which he had made
to the house during the present session : this let
ter was referred to a fele«sl committee, confift
ingof Mess. FitzGrtionfi, Sedgwick and Dayton.
In committee of the whole Mr. Dayton in the
chair, on the bill for altering the places of hold
ing the Circuit Courts of the U. States, in the
states of North Carolina and Vermont, and for
other purposes. The committee made some a
mendments, which being reported to the house,
a mot ion made agreed to recmnm„-
the bill to a leleil committee.
A meffaje from the Prrfident of the U.
foimed the house that he has this day approved
and iigned two ads, which originated in xht
house, viz. one an a<3 repealing the federal Im
port law* of the U. States l'o far at the feme may
be deemed to impose duties on ufeful bead*
ported for breed; the other, "an a3 making
provision for the persons therein mentioned.
The amendment, of the Senate to the bill in
titled, an a<ft to regulate trade and mtercourfe
with the Indian tribes, were taken into conside
ration, and agieed to by thehoule. The amend
ments of the Senate to the amendments of th«
house to the bill fupplementa y to the ad foref
tablifhing the Judicial Courts, were next take*
up.thefr were concurred in with amendment).
A roeffage from tile Senate by Mr. Otii their
Secretary,informed the huufe that they
fed a bill providing an annual allowance for the
education of Hugh Mercer. The Secretary »1.
so informed the house, that the Prcbdent of the
U. States has approved and figncd.an ad, in ad
ditionto and for alteration of an ad for txt rid-
ing the time limited for fettling the accounts be-
tween the U. States and the individual flatev
The amendment of the Senate to the bill for
fixing the time of the next annual meeting of
Congress were read—this propofesthelaftMun-
day in December, in lieu of the firft Monday of
Nov. as in the bill; the house negatived this a-
roendment
A second meflage from the Senate informed
the house that they have palled the bill entitled
an a&, to ascertain the fees in admiralty proceed-
ings in the diftridt Courts of the U. States, with
amendments.
The bill received from the Senate providing
an allowance for the education of Hugh Mercer
was read the firft time : the second reading of
this bill, being opposed, as unconstitutional, the
question, lhall the bill be reje&ed, was put, a-
grseable to the rules of the houfcj-*Jww*M»«gsu.
tived. The bill -was then referred to a commit
tee of the whole.
An estimate of additional appropriations for
the fervicesof the year 1793, was received from
the Secretary of the Treasury; read and refer
red to a fele& committee confiding of meffiturs
Fitzfimons, Madison, and W. Smith, "with in
ftfu&ions to report a bill.
Mr. Heifter brought in a report on the peti
tion of relative to a discovery
in the improvement of fire arms. This report
is favorable to the petitioner.
Mr. Giles, after some pointed animadveffions,
on the Reports of the Secretary of the Treaiury
made to the House, pursuant to the relolution»
which have been paflfed, read several resolutions
relative thereto, which were handed to the
Clerk, again read, and laid on the table.
motion of Mr. Barnwell, it was voted,
that wftc» xfrejloufe adjourn, thty adjourn to
6 o'clock in the evening.
A message was received from t'ne Prefidcnt
of the United States, by Mr. Lear, his Secreta
ry, with the copy of a exemplication of an ad
of the state of New York, ceding to the United
States the jurifdi&ion of a certain trail of tand
on Montok Point, in said state.
A letter was read from the Treasurer of the
United States, covering the report of the ac
counting Officers of the Treasury, on his ac
counts to the 31ft of Dec. 179 a.
A report was read from the Secretary of the
Treasury, containing an abftra<St of the exports
of the United States, referred to a leled
committee to examine and report on such part*
as it may be proper to print.
Adjourned till 6 o'clock in the evening.
Wcdnrfday Evening, February 27.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill
for ascertaining the fees in cast s of Admiralty
proceedings, in the Di£ri<si Courts of the Uhi
ted States, were agreed toby the House.
A bill, providing for the reimbursement of a
loan made of the Bank cf the United Sta'es,
was taken into consideration. On motion, the
bill was re-committed to the committee of the
whole. The House immediately went into a
committee of the whole, Mr. Muhlenberg in
the chair. The bill being read, a motion was
made to strike out the firtt fe&ion, which au- -
thorites a loan.
Mr. Barnwell said, as he had been in favour
of making the loan 0/ two millions, as contem
plated in the feiSion; he thought it due to him
felf and to the committee to slate the realon
which will induce him to agree to the motion
for striking out the fe6tion. It is, said he, e
caufe there is not time during the fefiion to go
into such an investigation of the fubjeft as it
merited; such an investigation, hewasperlua
ded, would convince every unprejudiced mod,
that it would be for the interest of the Unite
States to effed the loan. .
Mr. Madilon was in favour of linking out
the feflion —fettlng aside the consideration ilia
the United States are not under obligation
discharge the whole sum of two millions at
present time ; he very much doubted the po icy
of making loans at that amount," 1,1
question, Whether any laving could be n
thereby, is problematical, confidenng the r ..
interefl in Europe. He thought it p"> •
that before the time came round, when
ted States might be obliged to dift ar £
whole of this debt, money may be obtainM
more advantageous terms than at pre cn ,
fliould be found necessary to borrow-
The fe&ion was ftruckout nem cot,.
Several amendments were made to t e
fe&ion ; the committee then rose and r <jP
the fame ; the House adopted the amendments,
and ordered the bill to be engrofled.
Mr. Williamfon, of the committee 0
Secretary of the Treasury's communication
fpe&rng the exports and imports of the U
States, reported that the lame ought to be p
In committee of the whole, 011 b ''J
ting the accounting officers of the ref ass to the credit of J ohn Banks the sum of 97 6 S
dollars and 90 cents, heretofore charged to him
man account fettled at the Treasury. The
Committee made one verbal amendment which
wa , reported to and adopted by the House.
The bill was then ordered to be engrossed.
A bill, supplementary to the ait providing
for the establishment and maintenance of light
houses, beacons, buoys and public piers, was dif
cuffedin committee of the whole.
Mr. Key moved to add a fe&ion, authorizing
the Secretary of the Treasury to direct a floating
beacon or buoy to be placed on Smitk's point
•shoal, in the Chefapealc Bay this was agreed
to.
Mr. Williamfon moved to add, " and a bea
con or floating buoy near Ocracocklnlet, North
Carolina —agreed to.
A Jfcition was added, on motion of Mr. Fitz
finvoßSi devolving the duty refpe&ing light
houfes,beacons and buoys, on the commissioner
of the revenue.
Another motion wa9 offered by the fame
the objcd of which was, to aug
ment the salary of the commissioner of the reve
nue —this motion was agreed to.
The committee then rose and reported the
amendments. The amendment devolving the
duty of superintending the light-houses, &c. on
' the commissioner of the revenue, and that re
fering to an augmentation of his salary, were
disagreed to, the others were adopted; and
then it was ordered that the bill be engrossed.
Mr. Fitziimons then moved, that a commit
ter, he appointed to bring in a bill, to encreafe
the salaries of the commissioner of the revenue,
and the auditor of the Treasury—laid on the
table.
Mr. W. Smith read a motion to the follow
ing purport,
Resolved, That the President of the United
States be authorized, in cafe the state of Penn
sylvania, or the city of Philadelphia, lhall not,
make proviuonfor the accommo
dation oi Congress, to caufc_fuch accommodation
to be provided, &c. laid on the table.
Adjourned.
THURSDAY, February 18.
A bill providing for the payment of tbe fir ft
instalment of a loan made of the Bank of the
United States.
A bill, supplementary to the a&, providing
for the eflablifliment and maintenance of light
house's, beacons, buoys, and public piers and
A bill, dire&ing the officers of the treaiury
to pass to the credit of John Banks, the sum of
9 768 dollars and 90 cents —were read the third
time, and puffed.
Mr. Livermore, of the committee to whom
was re-committed the bill for altering the time
and places for holdng the circuit courts in the
Eastern Diftridls, and in North-Carolina, and
for other purposes, brought in a report which
proposes sundry amendments to the bill; these
were agreed to with. juncndmeirts- and the bill
read time, and palled.
A meifage from the Senate by Mr. Otis, fti
formed the House that they adiiere to their amend-. :
ment to the bill, for fixing the time of the next
annual meeting of Congress; and that the Se
nate concur in the amendment of the House, to
th a amendments proposed by the Senate to the
bill supplementary to the atf, for eftablilhing
he Judicial Courts of the United States.
The House took this message into considera
tion, and voted to insist on their disagreement
to the amendment of the Senate to the bill tor
fixing the time of the annual meeting of
Congress—and choie a committee of conference.
Mr, Fitzfimons reported a bill, making cer
tain appropriations therein mentioned Read
twice, and referred to a committee of the whole.
A bill to authorize Ephraim Kimberly to lo
cate a land-warrant, iflued to him for services
during the late war—Read twice, and referred
to a committee of the whole.
Mr. Heitter, of the committee on enrolled
bills, reported as truly enrolled,
An a& to regulate trade and intercourse with
the Indian tribes—and an a<St to ascertain the
fees demandable in cases of Admiralty pr cced
ings in the courts of the United Stares, and for
other purposes- The Speaker signed the fame.
A committee was appointed to bring :n a bill,
to increase the salaries of the commifiioner of the
revenue and the auditor of accounts. Commit
tee Messrs. Fitzfimons, B. Bourn,and Murray.
A bill making further provision for securing
the colle&ion of the duties on foreign and do
mestic distilled spirits, still*, wines, and teas, was
read the time. Mr. Madison, after stating
several reasons arising from the importance of
the provifiens contained in the bill, and the im
pofiibility from the Ihortnefs ol the time remain
ing of the prefsnt Scllion, to go into a proper
investigation of its principles, moved, that the
second reading ftiould be pwftponed till the next
feflion.
The question on the second reading was put,
and agreed to; it was accordingly read, and
committed for to-morrow. One hundred copies
of the bill to be printed in the interipi.
The resolutions brought forward yesterday by
Mr. Giles, were called for by that Gentleman
previous to the reading of the lait bill. I behead
ing being finifhed, Mr. Ames moved that the
resolutions should be taken up.
Mr. Murray fuggeftedthe necessity of giving
a preference to the judiciary bill reported by
him some days Cnce.—He was seconded by Mr.
Key.
The motion for taking up the resolutions was
Carried, 40 members rising in favor of it. Ihe
resolutions were accordingly read by the clerk,
and are as follow, viz.
ift. Rrfolvrd, That h is fffrntial in the due
1 KlDiiAiiruion of the government ot the L'niicd
$t*rrr, laws making fpecific appropriations
tof money, (hnuld be ft'icUy observed by tbead
■niariftraior of the finances (hereof.
1. Resolved, That a violation of a law mak
ing appropriation* of money, is a violation ot
thai fetiicn of the Conftiuuton of tire United
States which requires that no monev fttttt be
drawn from-the Treasury but in confluence of
appropriations made by law
3d. Refolded, That the Secretary of the
Trealury has omitted to difchargc an essential
duty of his office, in failing to give Congress of
ficial information in due time, of the monies
drawn by him from Europe into the United
States—which drawing commenced Dec. 1790,
and continued till Jan. 1793 —and of the caulcs
of making such drafts.
4th. Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has violated the law palled the 4th of
Augu'ft, 1790, making appropriations of certain
monies authorised to be borrowed bv the fame
law, in the following particulars, viz. lft, by ap
plying a certain portion ot the principal bor
rowed to the payment of interest falling due
upon that principal, which was not authorized
by that, or any other law—2dly» By drawing
part of the fame monies into the United States,
without inftruftions ot the President of the
United States.
sth. Resolved, That the Secretary of. the
Treasury has deviated from the inftruftions given
by the President of the United States, in exceed
ing the authorities for making loans under the
acts of the 4th and 12th August, 179°'
6th. Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has, without the inftruftions of the
President ot the United States, drawn mo
nies borrowed in Holland into-the United States,
than the Piefident ot the United States was au
thorized to draw under the ast of the 12th of
August, 1790 : which ast appropriated two mil
lions of dollars only, when borrowed, to the
purchase of the public debt; and that lie has
omitted to discharge an effcntial duty of his of
fice, in failing to give official information to the
Commiflioners for purchasing the public debt,
of the various (bms drawn from time to time,
suggested by him to have been intended lor the
I purchase of the public debt.
fth. Resolved, That the Secretary of tht
Treasury did not consult the public interest in
negociating a loan with the Bank of the United
States, and drawing therefrom 400,000 dollars,
at 5 per cent, per annum, when a greater sum ot
public money was deposited in various banks at
the refpeftive periods of making the refpe&ive
drafts.
Bth. Resolved, •That the Secretary of the
Treasury has been guilty of an indecorum to
this lioufe, in undei taking to judge of its mo
tives in calling for information which was de
mandable of him, from the constitution of his
office i and in failing to give all the neceflary in
formation within his knowledge, relatively to
the fubjefts of the reference made to him of the
19th January, 1792, and of the 22d November,
1792, during the present feflion.
qth. Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing
refolutioni be transmitted to the Piefideut of the
United Slates.
Mr. Giles then moved that they fhnuld be
referred to a committee of the whole houle.
So lie debate took place on a motion to divide
the question, so as that the sense of the house in
regard to the reference to the committee of the
whole, (hould be taken on the resolutions sepa
rately.
The question for referring the firft,fecond and
ninthjxfolutions being put, was negatived. ..
lu favor ot"committing the 9th resolution,
13 membeis only rose.
The residue were then referred to a committee of
the whole, Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair Thefirfl
resolution before the committee was then read.
The debate continued till after three o'clock;
the committee then rose and reported progress,
and had leave to fit again.
A message from the President of the United
States informed the house, that he had this day
approved and signed two aifts which originated
in the house—one, an ail making appropriati
ons for the support of government for the year
1793: The other, an ail to regulate claims to
invalid pensions.
A message from the Senate informed the house
that they have appointed a committee of confer -
rence, on the bill for fixing the time of the next
annual meeting of Congress; also, that they have
passed the bill making an appropriation for de
fraying the expence of holding a treaty with the
hollile Indian tribes north weft of the river Ohio.
Adjourned till 6 o'clock in the Evening.
Thursday Evening, Feb. 28.
In committee of the whole—Mr. Sedgwick
in the chair—On the bill for extending the time
for receiving on loan that part of the domestic
debt of the United States, which may not be fub
fciibed prior to the firft day of March, 1793 —
The bill was reported without amendments,and
ordered to be engrolTed for a third reading.
In committee of the whole, on the bill mak
ing certain appropriations therein mentioned—
Mr. Boudinot in thechair. Several amendments
were agreed to by the committee, which were
reported, and laid on the table. Adjourned.
Philadelphia, March 2.
Abjlrafi oj further European intelligence iy the
January Packet.
The galleries of the Hall of the National
Convention were occupied on tbe 23th Dec.
by people who had fat there ail the night pre
vious to the day on which the King's defence
was made. —A negociation is on foot between
Spain and France —this appears, on the part
of the French government to have for its ob
ieift a definitive declaration of neutrality on
the part of Spait'-r-a neutrality is itnequi
vocallv declared by the latter, but the de
claration is accompanied with some general
refle6lions on thefituation of Louis XVI. in
which it is said—" It is impoflible that tie
whole world should not behold, with horror,
the violences 'committed against a prince op
prefied by the loiferes of a long and vigorous
captivity, and by tbe iufults of ionic, who
think to aggrandize tlwmfelves by treading
under foot grc- tnefs now fallen the de
claration farther fays that a majority of tbe
French nation, though they have not spoken
out, seems to be favorable to Louis.—lt con
315
clutfes by fugi?efting thn't a magnanimous con
duct tow arch Lour., by\ft\oerrng bim to chufe
an afylun> f>r himfeif and family would be a
testimony of the generality of the French na
tion— Murmurs frequently interrupted the
reading of this paper, and the alfembly de-
creed, 44 That the executive Council ba in-
formed in what quality BuRGoiNG, Minister
of the republic to the Court of Spain, is ac
knowledged by that Court, in order -that he
may be recalled, if not acknowledged, as Mi
nijler of the French Republic
The Englilli papers fay that their govern
ment has refufed to bold any conference with
M. Chauvfxin, the Minister of France, or to
hear theaffurances whichheisinftiufted to give
of their good dispositions towards Holland and
England—if this be true, war between the
fi&tin tries appears inevitable—an article in
the fame papers fays that the Butch are re
foiVed to relinquilh their right to the naviga
tion of the Scheldt. Monsieur the elder bro
ther of the King of France is expe&ed in
London, on his way to Lisbon and Madrid.
Coulit de Stackelberg, Ambassador of the
Emjlrefs of Russia, at Stockholm, has taken
the French emigrants under his particular
proUjfUort. His Excellency has even assigned
an in the hotel which he occupies,
to M. de S i t. Priest, the most diftinguiftied a
mong these unfortunate exiles.
The minister from the court of Vienna
having dematided the quota which the king
of Denriiarlt in quality of duke of Holftein is
"to furniih the army of the empire, it has been
re'olved, that his majesty will conform to the
'conclufiotT of this Germanic diet. It is be
lieved, however, that the quota will be fur
nifhed in money 1 .
TheEniperor,hafi taken the command in chief
from the duke de Saxe Tefchen, and conferred
it on tfce marflial De Saxe Cobourg. Had this
lofig wished for change taken place before the
battle'of Jenneppe, the papers fay, the low
countries probably would have been saved
On the.l4th"Dec. at five in the mornibg,
' tie King of Prussia set out from Frankfort at
t.bfc head of the greatest part of the garrison,
and all the Prullian troops quartered in the
!»eighborhood. A very smart cannonade has
li?en heard (ince their departure. There is
areDort that the French were driven back
tp Caftel, in the suburbs of Mayence, on the
right of the Rhine ; that they Uift several pie
ces of cannon, and abandoned the post oi
lockheim, which the king carried in person,
and where he palled the night. Letters ot
liter date fay, that the PrufTians are in pof
fcffion of Oppenheim, an important post on
ihe Rhine, four leagues above Mayence.—
This will intercept the convoys which Gene
ral Cultine received by this rivei from Lan
dau.
The last advices mention, that general
Boui'nonville. who received orders to go and
extricate general Cuftine, has been obliged to
'fall back, 011 account of the severity of the
(eafon, the want of forage, desertion, and sick
ness, which have made a fad havock in his ar
my. It appears, then, that Cnftinejs at this
moment in the molt perilous situation.
" There reigns at Paris (lays Gorfas) a
perfect calm the sure forerunner of a
storm ! ! !"
The majority of the Convention speak de
cidedly, out of the house, in favor of the King;
and were it not for the more sanguinary fac
tion, there would scarcely remain a doubt
refpefting his fafety.
As Louis proceeded to the Convention, and
as he returned, though the crowd which col
lected was very confiderahle, not a murmur
of indignation was heard—whether to ac
commodate each other's fight, or out of some
refpeft to their late King, cannot be exactly
known, but the greater part of the 'populace
appeared uncovered as the procefTion pafled ;
the carriage was guarded by a picked body of
630 men. Louis appeared altogether in dilh
abille, his hair was undrefled, and his beard
rough.
The calm that now reigns at Paris, fay
some of the Papers, betokens an app r oaching
storm ; within this last week it ftiould appear
jiiat near 1 5,000 persons have quitted that
capital.
General Anfelm is recalled from the com
mand of the army in Nice, 011 account of the
disorder among the troops, and General Bi
ron is appointed tofucceed him.
Three patriotic clubs have been formed at
Stockholm ; one of them is held in the En
gl. Hi tavern. The Duke Regent has express
ed his diflikeof these alTociations.
The Constitutional Societies in Manchester,
Sheffield, Nottingham, Derby, &c. are railing
a fund to oppose all prosecutions which may
be designed to destroy the liberty of tbe'prefs.
The preparations of war making by the
EngHlh are principally directed to the pro
tection of their trade. On this account an
unufnal number of frigates has been put in
commiflion, some of which are to be com
manded by Admirals.
It is the general opinion, fay theEnglilh pa
pers, of every well informed man in thiscoun
try, that the present violence of the two par
ties in France cannot abate, without some
new and general mafTacre. Already arc lifts
of proscription handed about in Paris.
The debater on Mr. Giles' Resolutions con
tinued yesterday till 5 o'clock—the commit
tee then rose, and the House adjourned till 7
o'clock P.M.
Mr. Giles yesterday ppopofed to withdraw
all the resolutions before the committee—ob
serving that the remaining time of the House
would net admit of a full difcuflion of the fub
jeft.
Amon.!; the d'ifcoveiies of this enlightened
age, an ingenious mechanic in Connecticut,
has invented the art of making paper, that
the hottest fire cannot consume.
,1. TimrfcUv t'.ie Senators and It-prefeiMati <rc">
of this State, convened in the Senate chamber,
agreeably to the refolutioci palled by both
Houl'es, tor the pu'pofe of choosing a repre
sentative in the Sedate of the United States
tor the State of Pennsylvania—The votes
were taken v<x jiotc, and Ai.bf.ri* Galt.aiinr,
El'qutre, was elected by a majority nf to.
gentlemen tire eietfted mem
bers of the third Oongreis rtf'the United
States for the State of New-York—Thomas
Treadwell, John Watts, Theodore Bailey,
Peter Gaalbeck, Philip Van Coitlandt,
Ezekiel Gilbert, John A. Van Alen, Henry
Glenn, and James Gordon, Efqnires.
Shearjufhub Boiirr.e and Henry Dear
born, Efqrs. are elected for Maffacnufetts.
No one c/tn read tlie report of tlie Secretary
6j the TicafuT\y to tlie Hou& of Jvqprelenta
tivCs of the Ibiited States, ot the
but with fatisfacftion. The marly, uneqoivo.
ca! fentinients—the fair and accurate state
ments, and the judicious arrangement of the
{everal particulars which relate to the finan
ces of the Union, must fix his charaftsr as 4
Patriot, a Statejman, and an honest and able Fi
nancier; and if a blush can be raised on the
cheeks of bis calumniators, they must be con
sumed by the fuftufion. CcL Cevlinel.
" The French, (fays a Boston paper) are not
entitled to the credit of inventors of the appel-
lation of " Citizen," it is, as Liberty is, of Ame
rican birth.— Four years finee the Piefident of
the United States, addrefled Congress by the en
dearing name of " Fellow-Citizens ot the Senate
and House of Reprefentativcs."
There was a propriety in the President's ad
dreffiivg this body as he did*—thfry were legally
his felloW-citizens. But this does not faultion
an indiscriminate application of the word " ci
tizen," as he never intended to
'* Pvt the fame mark upon the hip
, 41 OJboth the found and rotten flap."
Col. Mirror.
Copy oft] letter from a in London,
to hi* friend in Phi lad» Iplua, dated Dec rn
ber 24, 1792.
Drar Sir,
" On Friday evening last. died, Mr. Rumfcv,
.of Maryland. On the evening before, while
fitting with some members offthe Society for en
couraging Britifli arts, fcienccs and manufac
tures, (who, from the high opinion they enter
tained of his genius, had frequently cenfulted
liim'at their meetings) he complained of a sud
den pain in his head, and retting it on his hand
on the table, in an instant became apparently
lifelefs Medical aid being immediately had,
a vein was opened, and symptoms of life return
ed : he was put into a waun bed, under the
care of a good nuife, who adminiitered the re
medies which were prescribed by the mod emi
nent of the faculty. But his disorder baffled
their {kill; and though nothing was left unat
tempted, that could be devised to rcftore him,
he expired in a few hours, without struggle, and
without having recovered the free u(e of his
speech or faculties.
" As the feat of his malady was in his head,
after his death it was opened. What 1 had be
fore conjeflured, now became confirmed—that,
ovetplicd with energies and thinking, lome of
the veflels of the brain wire fairly worn our.
Accordingly, there had happened a rupture of
one of them, which was mantfeftly the immedi
ate cause of his death. This day he is to be de
cently inferred near Wcflminfter Abbey.
" In Mr. Rumfey we have loft a citizen, the
vigor and extent of wbofe intellect has fcldom
been furpafTcri ; and according to many of the
best judges here, very seldom equalled. I have
the honor to be &c."
COMMUNICATIONS.
When those who only write and declaim
against public measures fliall be considered as
the patriots of our country, the bell title to
public confidence will arise from a knafck at
Disorganizing the Government. •
It is so very easy to find fault, and there
is so much merit to be derived from filching
that of our neighbor, that it is really surpriz
ing the group of Diforganizei s is not more
numerous than it is.
Parties are not very amiable in any coun
try. Their virulence in England hag long
been lamented by the most virtuous men of
that nation. It is however but justice to their
factions to remark, that they do not attack
their conftitution r nor even whisper the divi
sion of the iiland into two governments—Our
American faction is really scrambling for of*
sice and power, but the means they chufe ar©
deadly. In these two particulars they dis
tance all rivals. They set out declared ene->
mies of the constitution itfelf, and they attack
the characters of the servants of the public
with a malignity that is unexampled.
THE MACE.
THE mace transmuted into coin,
In fact a profitable design!
No matter what the fymbo) cost,
For Abr'am gains bv what is loss,
Thus popularity is bo't
Norcofts the pr.rchafer a groat.
Current Prices oj American Produce, at B'Jlol.
December 24, 179 a.
Pot-Afhes,frJl, 29/ a gof. Pearl-A/hes, frft,
34fa 36f. Rice, long price, 26/ Jhort price, 18/7
Jndigo. 2/6 a $f& Pilch, 7/a jJ6 Tar. 13/ Tur
pentine, 8/15 Bees-Wax, 8/. a 9/. l.rer skins 11
the hair, found, iyd per lb. Deer Skins half dre/s'd,
20d a 22d. Pine Boards and Plank, from 10f a
1 2/6 per »oo feet, inch thick. Oak ditto, 14J a 1 cj'
per 100 feet, inch thick. States, per M. pipe SI. Bj.
a 13/ 3 s.— hhd. j/. a g/. — barrel 4/. 4J. a 61.—
flour, 16/ a lifter C. Wheat, 6/4 a 6Jqpr. busk.
Pig Jron. 61. a 7/. Tobacco, *d\ a $dfc.
(Signed) Ki. iasVakdsr Horst.
TO CORRESPONDENTS*-
We regret that the length of Congrejiona/proceed
ings in this dav'j Gazette did not Admit of publishing
the Critiques—they will appear on Werinefd'»), *.htn
Lycurgui willafo he refined, if pojjibte.
fj" Price oj Stccks as in *ur Itjl.PROPOSALS
"£t>r re-printing a new, entertaining and
inftru&ive "Work, intitled,
THE
Errors of Education.
BY MRS ELIZA ?A*SONS.
Injlabilit\ of mind impedes our road to perfection;
and youth, if not animated by 1 x am p l e , to
illvjirate the precepts oj v t rt! I, will
ever Jail into ERROR.
The European edition of this ynork, printed
last vear, fells at 12s. the two volumes, fand/ew
copiei, t] arty, to h had at that prut This pji
American edition, which (hall be well cxectued,
on an entire new type and fine paper, will be
delivered to fubfetibers in one »oli»me of about
420 F>ge» t imo. neatly bound, at a French Crown
ear h, 10 be paid on receiving the book, which
will be put to press as loon as a lufficient num
ber of fubferiptions are obtained to defray the
txpenfc ol the undertaking.
ftTSubfcriptions will be received at the Roo\Jlores
Me[frs. /". Pobfon. W, Young, J. Crukjhank, and
li. Johnson, and at Mr. lienry Kommerer'u No. 24,
North Ihird-flrert, Philadelphia-, by MrJJß.Hodqe,
S, Campbell, and T. A!len % Boekjcllers, New-York ;
by Mejj'rs. Day & Co. Printers, Trenton ; by the
Subfcnber. in Burlington \ and by others in ivkofe
hands fubfeription papers are lodged.
Feb. 18, 1793- ISAAC NEALF.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
BiekMUr, at the Stout- Hovfe, in Second Jlreii,
PhiladilphiA,
VOLUME VII, OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
»*, a DICTIONARY oV ARTS, SCIENCES,
'* N D
MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new :
BT WHIpH '
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
arcdiKelteri into ihe Form of Diftinft,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS
COMPR EHENDING
THE History, Theory, and Pra&ice, of each,
according to the Latest Discoveries and im
provements : and full Explanations given of the
various detached parts of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural and Artificial Obje&s, or to
Matters Ecckfiaftical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, See. Including Elucidations of the most im
portant Topics relatiVe to Religion,Morals,Man
ners, and the Oeconomy of L fe : together with
a Description of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, &r. throughout
the World ; a General History, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empires, Kingdoms,
and States ; and an account of the Lives of the
most Eminent Persons in every Nation, from the
earliest ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the heft author*, in
Crvetal Languages ; the mofl approved Dictiona
ries, as well of General Science as of particular
branches ; the Tranfaftions, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned societies, both at Home and
abroad—the MS. le&ures of eminent profeffors
on different Sciences : and a variety of original
Materials, furnilhed by an cxtenfive Correspon
dence.
The Seventh Volume contains a description
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Expe
rimental Philosophy, System of Farriery, Feudal
fyfte m, Fire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Foflils, hiftoiyof France, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry., Gilding,
See. with a variety of articles in natural history,
biography and mi feel la me*. IlluiVatcd with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new typej, (cast for the puipofe) which
will be occasionally renewed before ihey con
tract a worn appearance.
11. The work, is furnifhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcribmg, the volumes or half-volumes finiftied
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver-
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid foj.
,111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far exceed in number those given in any other
fcicntific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will he delivered an elegant frontif
picce, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It isexpefled the work will be comptifcd in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
c=r Th ofe who wish to become pofleflTors of
this valuable work will please to be carlv in their
applications, as the fubfeription is neaily closed.
J»n- 03-
Insurance Company.
AT a grnera'l meeting (\>y adjournment) of
the Insurance Company of North, Ameiica,
on Wednesday the 16th injlant,
It was Refplved,
THAT.. the Jsoftalments which,. according to
the Conftiiution, will'tecoijje due on the tccond
Monday of July and January next, or either of
ibem, may he paid by any Stockholder at an
earlter period ; and any Stockholder so paying
such infHlment, or'inftalmvms, (hall receive a
proportionate Ihare (if ihe Dividendv thereafter
to be made, calculating fucbJHare frond the firll
day "f the month fttcceeding such payments re
fpeftively. Extract from the Minutes,
EBEN..HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Jan. 23.
A large Cellar to Let,
Sufficiently capacious to Jlorefeveral hundred barrels.
Enquire o( the PtiuTu,
FOR SALE,
By the Subjcriber, at Walnut-Street Wharf,
BILL or EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediate ule, in pipes & quarter caflcs,
TENERIFFE WINE, in pipes,
SHF.RRY WINE, in quarter calks,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 P rool >
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRI I,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE. ALLUM,
Two Bales 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13 4 Inch CABLE, 120 fathoms lsnj.
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1793. epzrn
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL, HYSON&SOUCHONCI
Of the very fir ft quality,and latest impoitatioft
from Canton, via New-York, by retail,st
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Sirens.
N. B. A few Boxes of the above HYSON for ftlt.
Philadelphia, January 9, 179 J.
Mathew Carey
Refpcftfully informs the Citizens of the United
States, that the Maps for his intended
edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Arc now engraving—and as soon as a fufficient
number of them are finiftied, to secure a re
gular supply during the publication, which !
will probably be early next Sprwg % the work j
will be put to press
He returns Ins acknowledgments to the very
refpe&able number of Subfcrtbers, who have
come forward thus earlv to patfOfiijMP this ardu.<
ous undertaking. He allures them and the pub
lic in general, that no pains Or expenle (hall be
spared in the execution of the work.
Terms of the Work :
I. IT fhallbe publiihed in 48 weekly numbers,
each containing thice Ihects, or twenty-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with
new types on fine papej.
11. In the cottrfe of the work will be deliver
ed about thirty large maps, of the fame size as
those in the European editions, viz. mod of them
(beet maps on post paper.
Befidet the maps in the Britijh editions, this
work will contain nine or ten American State Maps.
111. The price of each number will be a
quarter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance required.
IV. Subscribers who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbets, arc
to be at liberty to return them, and {ball have
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibers' names shall be prefixed
as patrons of the nndeitaking.
Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publifticr ; in New-York, by all
the booksellers; in New-Haven, by Mr. Beers;
in Hartford, by Mr. Patten; inßofton,by Mess.
Thomas & Andrews, and by Mr. Weft ; in Bal
timore, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond, by Mr.
J.Carey; in Charleston, by Mr. W. P. Young,
and by sundry other persons throughout the
United States. (lawtf)
A New Post-Road.
HAVING beendeftred to eftabhfh a poft
road from Reading, in the (late of Penn
sylvania, to Williamfburg, at the Great lfctks of
the Genefee tiver, Notice is hereby given, that
proposals will be received at the General Post
; Office, for carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Williamfburg aforefeid, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading and the town of;
Northumberland ; Irom the latter place to Loyal
Sock creek ; thence to Lycoming creek j thence
in the new road to the Painted Port, on Tioga
rivet; and thence to Williamfburg,
The proposals will be received until the tstli
of March next, inclusively; the carriage of the
l mail la comraeocc within one moiult »hcr-f
wards, 1;
Neteffary Poll-Offices are to be established on
the route, and such petfons appointed Post
masters as the Contractor (hall name, and the
Poltmafter-General approve.
Within three months after the carriage of this
mail is commenced, the Contraflor is to (late to
the Poll in after-General the days and hours of its
arrival and departure at and from the principal
Port-offices, which experience lhall prove to be
molt convenient j and thereafter the mail is to
be delivered at the refpeftive Polt-officei. at the
hours so fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted,
on penalty of one dollar for each hour's delay ;
and for the non-performance ol a trip, theConl
traitor to forfeit twenty dollars.
The term of the contraS cannot exceed tight
years. During its continuance the ContrafW is
to rcceive the rates of poftageby law eilablifhed,
and to have the exclusive privilege of carrying
letters and packets for hire, such excepted, as
Hull he lent by a special meflenger, or which Ire
or shall be by law declared free.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P.M.G,
Central Poji-Ofict, Jan. 32, 1793.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the JJooksillers,
DOBSOK, CAREY, YOUNG, (3 CRI'KSHAA'K.
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold—
graduated according to Law —Blank Manifefts—
And Blanks for the various Powers of Attorney
ncceflary in tranfafting Bufmef. at the Trcafuty
«r Bank of the the United States.
316
TO be SOLD, or LEASED
FOR lIV EN OR TFN YEAR*,
I Hi FOLLOWING
HOUSES.
ONE on Walnut-ftieet, near Fourth-street,
23 feet front, has two parlours below, the
Imntone by feet, the back parlour is
18 by 14 feet. The front room up Hairs is
by feet. There are five good chambers in
this house, brf.dcs the garret is divided into
three rooms, in two of them there are fire-
places.
The other House is 27 feet upon Walnut
ftreet, and 52 feet upon 4th street; there art tw«
good parlours below, one of them 25 by 20 1-2
feet, the other 25 by 18 1-* feet, and seven com
plete bed-chambers; besides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens arc good ones, and are
under the houses ; the house has alfn a
houfe-keeper*s room. It is intended there shall
be a communication from both of these houses
to a neighbouring ice-house, fufficiently.large to
supply 3 houses. Within 50 yards of these
houses, there will be compleat (table? and coach
houses, for both houses; they will be finilhed
in the mod compleat manner, ana the keys
ready to be delivered early in the fummcr.
On paying half the money down (it fold) the
half may be paid bv inftalmenis, or the
whole may remain for 5 years, paying intcreft
and giving security on the prcmifes.
For terms of sale or lease, apply to the Sub
scriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has Jor SALE %
Sundrv Ground Rents,
j '
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
fixtccn Hulling* and fix-pcnce, per annum.
Also, a cjuaniity of BAGS,that will contain two
and a half and three and a half bushels.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 179 a. ep2tn
City of Washington.
January 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will he of
fered for sale at auQion, by the Com mif
fioners, on the 17th day of September next.—
One fourth part of the purchnfe money is to be
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly iuterefton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Ctm'rs.
Extra& of an Ast of the General AfTembly of
Mcryiand, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Wafhingion.
u Be it enatted, That any foreigner way by
deed $r hereafter to he made, take and hold lands
within that part oj theJaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen 9f this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of this State : Provided, That no foreigner JhuU,
in virtue hereof be entitled to any further ar other
privilege of « citizen
'9'
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
February ift, j 793.
WHEREAS foreigners holding Stock in
the Bank, of tlie United States may pre
fer receiving their Dividends in Europe, to re
ceiving them in America,
RESOLVED, That any proprietor of the
Capital Stock of the Bank of the United States
residing in Europe, (hall be entitled to rcceive
either in London or in Amsterdam, the half
yearly dividends which may be declared there
on—in London at the rate of one pound sterling
for every four hundred and forty-five cents, or
in Amsterdam at the rare of one guilder current
money for every forty cents and four mills the
dividend declared in January of each year, to
be paid in London or in Amsterdam on the se
cond Monday ol July following—and the divi
dend declared in July of each year, to be paid in
London or in Amsterdam on the tecond Mon
day of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to the declaring of any Dividend, so to be
paid in London or in Amsterdam) (hall give au
thentic notice to tHe President and Directors of
the Bank at which of the said Cities he will ie
ceite the said Dividend.
By the President fnd Dire&ors.
JOHN KEAN, Ca }
A GRKAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful situation en th« Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria ,
; and in a line of direction towards the Federal
City and George Town.in full view of each place,
commanding a profpeft of the river and adjacent
j country of Maryland and Virginia, for many
' miles ; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying di
rectly on the liver, will be fold, with the im.
provemertts, which are, a two-story framed
dwelling-tioufe, neatly smithed, a kitchen, office,
brick fixtOke-lioufe and dairy, two-story framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ice
boute, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other n«-
celfary improvements ; the whole of the land
enclofcd with ports and rails, ten or filteen acres
' laid down, with different kinds of grass. lis
contignity tothofe three towns must render it an ,
objrft worthy the attention of any peifon who
wishes to invert money in a property that must
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in
frejle of the Federal City, Alexandria and
. -J*" or S e -Towii. Xhis property ties nearly in a
f central situation to each place. ThePotowmark
at this spot has a fine deep ftiore and harbour,
capable of receiving vessels of any burden. It
may not be improper to ohfervr, that m£n of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be erefled here to the Citv of
Walhingtoo and the Maryland (hores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.— Also in fell, 21/5
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles difUnt,
which will fun well to fnonly the jbovc in
wood and timber. The till,-mav be seen to Ibe
above property, which UindifputaVl.-. and terms
, known by application to the "V u rihci, living
011 the premises.
Dtccmier 12 Ik, 179".
BAL- WIN DADE
ti nm
BY tHe Cotttmit&ofteis appointed tt>. #
Tir"* Pub, ' c Bu,u, »S». &«. wiihin iti. t. ,■
ol Wjlhinjto®, lor' ihc rncpiioa ot Coram r.
»ijd lor ihtir permanent retideme* ihct ih e U
i8o«— '
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT Of THE
Federal City.
50,000 Ticket sat 7 dollar*, are 350,000 dollua.
LIST OF PRIZES, v>*
1 Hotel, with batlu. )
out houfct, &c.&c.to coil J
1 Caih Pi ic
i ditto
l ditto
l duto
9 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
,5,000 tee
1 ,co-j
5 00
A CO
5°
2 5
20
10
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
t,ooo ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 Pii/ei
33,263 Blanks
50,000
The fote design of this I.otterv fscili
tate other improvements together with rhePublie
Buildings —it is the particular drfire of the Com.
millioncrs thai these mav be efi'cQed with a .
few deductions from the Prizes as poflible how
far their endeavors mav beanrwercd.theSchenit
of the Lottery will dcrnonftrate. The keys of
the Hotel, when compleat, w-ill he delivered tq
the fortunate poficflor of the ticket drawn a
againil its number.
A4l the other prizes will he paid, witkatt
ieiußiot 1, in one month after tin drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Washington, or it fueh
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced.
The drawit.g will commence en Mnndjv ihe
9th of Srptembet next,at the City of Walhing
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. ff'w. Didcm, Citv
Treasurer of Washington ; ofMrllTis. JtmuWtJl
& Co. Baltimore; ot Mr. Ptter Giirnj-■, Bollon;
and at such other places »s will be hereafter
publifbed.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS wijl
be given for the bell Plan ofanelcßant and con.
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houfej, if prtfatU
«« or bejore the toth ,ij JfrU next-, and a |»e>
ference will he given m the "Anift tor a, Coil,
tract, provided he be duly qualified t»
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses arc to be crested, will
be a corner lot of about 90 bv 200 feet, with*,
back avenue to the ftabli?, &c. Se&inns and
estimates of the expenle will he cxpeOeJ
with the elcvarioni) Sec. complrat ; and jo, 00®
dollars must be regarded by the Aichitrit asihe
utmost. limit in the exprnfe intmrii d tor ih>i
purpofc. _ S. BI ODGET,
Agent for the aftairsolifrt Cwv.
January 19.
War Department,
Januar y 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United State*, that
the sums to whict) they are entitled tor fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
ot September 1792, and which will become due
on the 5111 day ot March 1793, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioncrs ot the Loans
within the Hates refpe&ively, under the ufuai
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment must be ac
companied by the following vouchers:
1 ft. The certificate given by the Hate, fpecify
ing that the person poflefling the lame is in ta£4
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as such, he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came betore Vne, one of the Jufticea
of'the county of in the state of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his polTtfiion was giv
en, of which the following ii a cupv (the ccr
tilir.itc given by the state to be rccitcd) Thai
he served (regiment, corp? or vessel) at the
time he was dilabled, and that he now reticles
in the and county of and has rilidett
there for the last years, previous to which
he resided in
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment
by an attorney, the said attorney, btfides'.he
certificate and oath before recited, must produ. e
a special letter ot attorney agreeable to the sol*
lowing form :
1, A. B. of coontv of state of
do hereby conllitute and appoint C. D. ot
my lawful attorney, to rbceive in my behalf cf
rnv pension lor fiK months, as an Invalid
of the United States, from the 4th day ot Sep
tember 1792, and ending the $th day ot March
*793-
Signed and Sealed
in the Preftncc of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adnvniftratort
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their ri ff.c&ive offices, and also of the titna the
Invalid dird, whose pension they may ctaim.
By Command of the Pjefident
of ihe United States,
11. KNOX, Secretary at War.
T The Printers in the refpeflive States are ret
queji d to publi/k the above in their KewJpjper* Jot
the fpacrof 2 months.
TICKETS,
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY^
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER'S Ferry.
The price of this Gazette is Three Do!fox*
per annum—One hulj to be paid at the tune •j
scribing.
»i,ooo
<o,oo*
tf.OQ*
ip.ooa
'P. 00*..
10,000
>o,qo«
10-goQ*
10.CK^
10,000 '
>0,000
150,0.10
Dollars 350,00*