J
A AAUONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NOBTH FIFT H.ST RUE T, PHILADELPHIA
[No. j6 of Vol. IV.]
f«|iiM4riiA r *793.
Mathew Carey
Xefpcftfully informs the Citizens of the United
Stales, that the Maps tor his intended
edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving—and as fooi* »» a fuiHcieot
number of them art Hnifhed, to fecurc a re» '
gular fupplv during the publication, whicH
- will probably be early ncj(t Spring, the wori
wijl be put to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpettable number nf Subfcrjbers, who have
come forward thus early to patronize this ardu
ous undertaking. He allures them and the pub
lic in general, .that n© pains or expenlc lhalJ be
spared in the execution of the work.
Terms of the Work :
I. IT (hall be published in 48 weekly numbers,
each *ootaining thiee (heets, or twenty-four
pages, of letfer press, in quarto, printed with
new types on fine papei.
11. In tbecourfeof the work will bedel Ver
ed about thirty large mips, of the fame sice as
thofein the European editions, viz. most of liicm
Iheet maps on post paper.
(pT Besides the maps in the Britijh editions. this
work will contain nine or ten American State Maps.
111. The price of each number will be a
dollar, to be paid oh delivery.
$dT" Ah advance required.
IV. Subfcribcts who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbeis, >#e
to be at liberty to return them, and (ball have
their money repaid.
V. The fubfcribcrs' names {hall be prefixed
H patrons of the undertaking.
*»* Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publilher ; in New-York, by all
the booksellers; in New-Haven, by Mr. Beers;
in Hartford, by Mr. Patten; inßofton,by Mcff.
Thomas & Andrews, and by Mr. Welt; in Bal
timore, by Mr. Race; in RicbmAtfd, bv Mr.
J.Carey; in Charleston, by Mr. W. P. Young,
»nd by furidry other persons throughout the
United States. (lawtf)
THE Subscribers having been appointed a
committee of she Board of the Tiuftees of
the Univerfiiy of North-Carolina, for the pur
pose of receiving proposals from such gentlemen
as may intend to undertake the inftru£Ucm oif
youth in that institution, take the opportunity
of making known to the public their wish that
such gentlemen (hould fignify their incfinaiioft
to the fubferibers.
The objects to which it is contemplated by
the Board to turn the attention of the ftudems,
«n the firfl eftablilhment, are—-The study of
Language?, particularly the Enghfti—Hiftory,
ancient and modern—the Belle-lettres— Logic
and Moral Philosophy-—the knowledge of tr*i
Mathematics and Natural Philofophy—Agripul
tare and Botany, with the principles of Ar<c,hi
tenure.
Gentlemen eonverfant in these branches of
Scienfc and Literature, and who can be well re
commended, will receive very handl'ome encou-
JaeemrrU'by the Board. The exercises o( the
Mmitntton will commence as early as poflible
».tter the completion of the buildings of the Uni-
Xerlujr, which are lo be conifafied (or immedi-
SAMUEL ASHE,
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAYE,
DAVID STOME,
.02$ eptm SAM. M'CORKLES
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
SqW by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, VpUNG, » CRI'KSH.I.VK.
. , i 5 n —
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at or bet ween Providence
and Bolton, a very small TRUNK, covered
vruh fcal-Ikiu of a reddiQi colour, with white
foots. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Carolim State Notes, and a few of the
State of Rhode.ldand ; with other pape/s,which
can only be ferticeable to the proprietor. The
State notes are ch< eked.at the offices trom whence
they 1 lined. Any person producing the T.uuk
(with its contents) to JOHN MARSTON, of
WILLIAM HALL, of Provide nee,
Wtifrs PAIERSON and BRASHER, New-
York,r.' Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, (hall receive the above reward, or for any
-part of the pr.piriv, One Hundred Dollan.
Bolton, Nov. 28. eptf.
TO BE SOLD BY THE. EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold—
fradoati d according to Law—Blank Manifefti—
And Blanks lor the various Powers of Attorney
"necelTary in tranfafting BuiWfs at the Treafuiy
•r Bank of the the United States.
W price of tkis Gazette is Three Dollars
fer annun—One half It te pud at the time tffti.
fr'H'g-
for tht GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
jyfr. FEMN'-O,
I fend you a few thoughts on the slate of our Ameri
ca* Indians—if they are calculated to inffrire more
jujt or benevolent Jentiments refpetting them, by
irtfert.ng them in your Gazette, you will oblige
your humble fervanty Lycurgus.
"[VyJ OTWITHSTANDING the Tfngth
' time tftat has elapsed since the di r covej"y
of ttiis Country—the number and success of
the emigrants, and the rapid growth and im
provement of the settlements, little or no at
tention has been paid to the melioration of
the state of the natives of the foil.-—We are
indeed acquainted with the real
state of manners among them—The remarks
which have hitherto been made upon the fub
jeft are too few and detached, too informal
and extravagant to fatisfy an enquiring mind
—The accounts which have been published,
have generally been derived from trade- r^a rfcl
travellers whc
and have not had Jeifure or talents for nrcu
rate observation. From the small progress
which the Indians have made in improvement,
an opinion has arisen and is current among a
certain class of citizens, that tiipy are incapa
ble of civilization—An idea so injurious to
the feelings of benevolence, so inconsistent
with the powers of the human mind and the
ftrongefl: propenfiti.es of human nature, ar.d
so direc'Hy contrary to the progress of savage
manners in past ages, null be well fuppoi ted
to merit our alfent.
This incapacity of the Indians if any fnch
exists must arise front Ibme imbecility either
of body or mind, but that no such infirmity
can with justice be ascribed to them, the uni
form tefiimony of all who have beeortie ac
quainted with them fufiiciently evinces.
In their persons and complexions like all
other nations they arefubjeftto those minute
variations which climate, njode of living, po-
delicacy of food and the eaie or dif
ficulty of acquiring it contributed to create.
They are generally tolerably well njade, tall
luiy •f-'Ntoll) j they
are remarkably active in war and in the choce
—capable of enduring the greatest hardships
and fafigtjes ant} in an astonishing degree in
sensible of iuclement seasons.—The women
fuffer very Jittle from the pains of child birth
—they need no a (Usance but from nature and
their own crtriilitrttidns, and are confined but
a few hours from their usual employments —
They have generally good health without any
precautions topreferve ir, and are strangers
to many rfifeafes which afflidt polished nations.
The powers of their minds are in no refpeft
inferior to the qualities of their bodies J they
discover great sagacity in those things with
which their circumstances re mice them fa
miliar ; they are able to perceive with incre
dible facility the traces of man or bead-*
" on the smoothest grass, on the hardest earthy
and even on the very stones will they difcovqr
the traces of an enemy, and by the shape of
the footfteps and the distance between the
prints distinguish ndt only whether it is a man
or woman who has palled that way, but even
the nation to which they belong."
LIC.
They will cross a trackless fore ft cf im
mense ejtteot without any material deviation
from the .place at which they aifned ; they
will point to the place of the fun though in
tercepted by jclouds, and dire ft their
with furprifidg exaftnefs bv a nice attention
to minute circupittances whichefcape the no
tice. rf more imprtwed people.
The habit si'relying upon their memories
for the knowledge of past tranfaftions, with
the artificial means they use to ftrengt'ien the
principle of association, render them furprif
iflgly retentive.
Their language, correspondent to their
ideas, is narrow and (iraple—many of their
speakers, how;ever f have arrived at confidcri
able eminence, a greater fluency of words and
grace ofaCtion than could be ex
pelled from a people ignorant? of the arts and
faiences, and all thofij terms to which improv
ed fpciety gives birth—Their speeches arc ge
nerally bold and nervous—fu l l of striking im-
and fonietimes truly lublime. The qua
lities of the mird ai d body give rank and dis
tinction among them —The Sachems whopre
fide in their councils and direst the affairs of
the tribe, derive their influence wholly from
the opinion which the nation entertains of
their wifdoin and integrity—Their leaders in
war also owe their authority to the public es
timation of their courage and condu<st—As a
further proof of their mental qualifications,
I might mention the proficiency of such of
them as have enjoyed the means of inflec
tion—it has generally been equal to the must
sanguine expectations—their rude attempts
at the arts are curious and discover great in
genuity and invention—To these may be ad
ded thair magnanimity, their hospitality, and
their fidelity to their friends—virtues in
which they are unparalleled by civilised na
tions.
Wednesday, February 20, 1793.
(7« be cnlimtd.J
301
From the American Daily Advertiser
MR. DUN LAP,
SUNDRY observations, which have ap
peared in Mr. Fenno's paper, deserve no
tice, as they tend to impress our
brethren with an idea, that fa&ion and party
have transfufed them/elves from individuals,
into the northern States themtelves.
The southern members of Cangrefs are ral
!.=~, as having instituted an enquiry into the
State of the public funds, for the purpose of
exhibiting an alHimed integrity over thole of
the north, who have not been, as may be in
ferred from the paiagraph, active in, or in
deed approving of the meafui e.
And the agricultural interell have their at
tention very seriously called, to the favor
(hewn them, "in not being called tn by the col
lector for the fruits oj their labour."
In the fijft paragraph, raillery is reforwd to,
for the purpose of fupprefling or diftqbnte
nancing fin equirv, made fundamental hy the
coaAitution in the following clause : ** No,
money (hall be drawn from the Treasury, but'
in roofequence of appropriations made by
law; and ® regularftafement and account of
the receipts and expenditures of all public
money, shall be published from time to time."
lfinefs,
And in the second, a gross fraud is inculca
ted for a truth. Both are calculated to nur
ture faftinn and party.
It would be well for the landed and labor
ing people of America to corf-der what this
party is, and whalv it ought to be.
With rcfpeft to what it is
A inonied interest, amazed at the extent
:uid brilliancy of its acquisitions, so wonder,
ful as to excite apprehenfionj as to their fafe
tv, are governed by the following principles .
I ft. To encreafe the public debt by every ar
tifice, for the pnrpoie of enlisting more
troops, armed with money, which is power.
2d. To difrountenance enquiries into public
funds, and economy in their management,
as obftrufting their deligns.
3d. To strengthen their party, by
northern and southern interest, opposed to
f ct'ior, between state?, wnicti have, in
a common interest.
4th. To efleft a silent, tho'fundamental revo-
Inrion, by transferring the national influ
ence over the Legislature, to a monied in-
tereft in the hands of a few individuals.
sth. And finally, to ere ft a monarchy or aris
tocracy, to restrain the deceived majority,
Ihould tliey ever recover their understand
ings.
With refpeft to what it ought to be :
The party ought to coniift of the monied
intereftonly, because their designs and prin
ciples are clearly in opposition to the landed
and labouring interests of all denominations.
These, in order to preserve their liberties
ought;
id. To eeonomifc the public revenues.
2d. To pay the debt as fact as pofiible.
3d. To watch over the public resources, and
apply them in the njoft beneScial mode*
This arrangement of parties is cunningly
elucbd by foftering separate interests between
the States ; by persuading the laboring clafles
that the taxes favor them ; and, by a series
of newfp2per paragraphs and correfponderi
cies, written by speculators, who have mo
ney and leisure for futh performances, and
who had 1 athjr write than work for a liveli
hood.
The monisd ihtereft is a kind of flying
squadron, whole objedt is to divide the great
mafjof the people, by a geographical line,
and ta cajole one division, that they may live
at free quarter on the labor of both.
Hence it would be well for the people to
consider,
jft. Whether an attempt topcrfuade them,
that thejrdo not pay tiixes, is not a dehifion !
Are taxes any thing, except labor ? If the
merchant pays a tax on his coat or mine, mult
not labor ultimately reimburse him? Is not
this deluiion designed to lull the agricultural
and mechanical interests into fecnrity, and to
blunt their enquiries concerning the disposi
tion of the taxes ?
2d. Whether those who pay, or those who
receive, are mod likely to search into the dif
pofitian of public money ? and how far this'
principle will apply, refpedively, to the con
dlift of those members of Congress, who en
courage or embarrass such an enquiry ?
34. Whether fifcal perplexities are not cal
culated to keep them i:i ignorance as to the
disposition of their money? Whether ignor
ance is not a good foil, in which to plant di-f
---potifm ? And whether they have had a plain
and finiple statement of the public funds,
from the e(Ubliih»nent of the government to
tfcisday?
For my part, it fecms to me, that all the
landed and labouring classes of citizens, in all
the States, have one common intcreft, and
that nothing but wooden men, will fuflpr
theinfelves to be played off like puppets, by
newspaper paragraphs, for Che emolument of
fellows behind the curtain.
[Whole No. B.]
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STJTEi
IT is too easily conceded that a [Teat ciamor
is always a proof of fomethiug being wrong.
We have men whose trade it is (a meaner and
blacker tradethan chiinney-fweeping) to make
as mtlch noise as they can aiainft government
—for what the people's servants do—for what
they neglelt to do—for the thoughts of otir
rulers hearts, /which these imps pretend to
know) all, all is wrong. Not a finale good
thing has been done of intended. The fame
men are chosen over and over again—w'.ich
looks something like popular confidence in
their integrity. Generally speaking they are
not rich—far from it—they mult fink or fwini
with the people they represent. Their pri
vate characters stand too, as well as can be
said of any body of men. Our dealers in
lamp-black, however, goon with their work ;
and it is aflerted by themfelvc?, with no fmaU
joy, that they have at Jaft got the govern
ment to look, when seen from the fonth, at
black as a (hip's bottom—A certaiu Gazette
Jerves as their tar-kettle—lt is trumpeted
twice a week ; who would have thought our
new government—our bright-sided conftitnti
on would so fo*n have got into this trinW?
It is time to fink her for a hulk. Again they
cry why does not Corigrefs attend to rhe
voice of the people ? There is great difcori
tent ( They might add, we are hire there is,
for we made it. There is nothing these peo
ple cannot fay, and there is no which
cannot be Hedinto some discredit* Sons 6f
mifchlef take arj example, as follows :
The rage sos innovation is rather a
er than a reformer. The excellent trial by
jury is the better as well as the fafer for, it*?
being ancient. It has'(lowly improved, and
time has made it justly venerable. It Is
scarcely poflible that any new plan could be so
perfect in its firft conftruftion as this mode of
trial. Yet it would lie one of the easiest things
in the world to (hew from theory how d*fe£-
tive it is. Our levellers could turn out a set
of ready cut and dry, at a mo
ments warning, to (hew that it is nnconftitri
tiOn?ri,- dangerous atld <\KgfgT-etuTTtTir free
confffVf They mipfht T*eTTow from their Ga
zette ; with r. very /light change of here and
there a word, the old ftorf would do. Twelve
men are de r pots. Lords of our lives and pro
perties. Our imprescriptible and unalienable
rights are alienated, trucked off and put into
their hands as pawn-brokers, to be delivered
back or not as they may think proper—We
must take them, damaged or found, clean or
dirty, as they come from these new made
lords, our fnafters hands. What abfurdfty.
Trufttjueftions of fcienee to ignorance—make
folly a cafu ft—a(k them to tell, and with ex
adtnefs, what they dp nor know tliemfelvC?.
What a chance for prejudice, partiality and
corruption. Rrch men will buy 12 men, as
often as they hive octafiorr, and thus oppress
the poor under the color of law. Mens rights
will be usurped, and jnfHce turned into a
mockery. Freemen, will ye bear this ? will
ye bow youf rtecks to this tyranny—to this
project for nnking lords by the dozen—to
this fair for the fate of conscience—this ex
port and import trade of corruption. It was
not so in 1775—Then the people judged by
their committee). Power was Jcepf in the
hands which have a right to hold it. Par ike
people are the f>untain of power—the true
sovereigns of* America !
There is not a word of truth in all
flourifh, and yet, if juries were now iiift ef
tablilhed by a law ofGongre-fs, we (bould have
every word trumpetted in our ears by thjß
falfe friends of liberty and the people.
Mr. Fenno,
It is obffrved that you have been liberal in your pub>
lie alio* s of remarks tefpefting the mover of the re
folutipns of the flbtfe'of Representatives» requir
ing a cUvelopement of the realjlate of the Treasury
—It is reauejltd, as the only atonement, that you
re-print the endoftd piece faucd Frankitn, and
any other which maxferveio present to the public
v tewy a fair jialement oj the quejlion on both Jides.
THE appeal made to the public by the Se
cretary of the Treasury in his reraoo
ftrance of February the 4th, against the reso
lutions ofCongrefs for information relative
to the (late of the fund?, teems with indicati
ons to attract the public attention.
Though it be overlooked that griat delay
was incurred in prep ring and tranfinitting
this performance to London,whilft thefelTion,
and the investigation were porting rapidly to
an end ;
Though nothing is asked touching this foH
citude and anxiety, to keep up the price ol
Hock and certificates in a foreign country ;
Though the indelicacy ofprinting the paper
in hand-bills, and in circulating it without
the permiflion of Congress, is admitted- to be
no infringement of the Constitution ;
Yet the ijpirit and Bavour of the piece
ought to receive that free inveftigation,wiucb
it solicits by its own example.
A FAEMER.
The palitict of such of our representatives
A FAG SIMILE.*t cotrotenanw tt>e enquiry into tl* state tf
the public resources, have been often branded
with the epithet of antifeclcra). And this ap
pellation hath been liberally |*ftowcd upon
them by the fifcal faction.
It is of importance to the community to
know, to whom this epithet in truth belongs.
The cry it no criterion by which to judge.
Tne perpetrator of a feleny, it usually more
vbcifGr.ius in his exclamations than his pur
faers themselves.
The constitution eaafts, « that a regular
(tateineiit and accouut of Iht nctipn and ixpeti
diturts of public *«0 shall be puhlilhedlrom
time to time." An account of public monies
and funds rs here explicitly directed by * con
stitutional mandate. Can it be imagined.that
the only individual capable of complying with
k, and actually provided bylaw as the instru
ment for it, is the only individual entitled to
•11 absolution from the injunction ?
The Secretary admits that this account
hath never been produced, but aflerts, " that
until the last resolutions, no coll has been made
upen him, which rendered it proper to exhi
bit a general view of the public monies and
funds." He is deaf to the voice of the con
stitution, although in this instance its lungs
*re exerted in the loudest and mofl articulate
tone.
Such accounts were designed as a check,
and do certainly militate powerfully again It
monarchy and ariftocfacy ;
ftrjl. By counteracting corruption, and
money-influence of every kind in the legilla
ture.
Secondly. By producing (economy, leflening
taxes, and diminilhing the number of tax-j,a
therers, whose interest geneially unites them
With administration.
Thirdly. By obviating the acquirement of
exorbitant wealth, from the temporary use of
public money. ' • '
Is the genius of th« constitution monarchi
cal or republican ? Who are most federal—
thoft who join their voice to the call of the
constitution, or those who are deaf to this
fundamental remonftrante !—Let the impar
tial judge. The apology of the Secretary in
its best view, is an acknowledgement that he
has been guilty of a fupprelfion, in violation
of the constitution.
But it is proper to enquire, whethar this
fupprelfion has been accidental o,r I'yftematiQ ?
—If the former, a plain, placid, intelligible
statement of the public funds may be expect
ed. But if a system hath been conflicted by
the enquiry, passion, artifice, perplexity, will
be resorted to in its defence.
Let a fcfolift in politics and human nature,
refleCt on the following indications of this let
ter, and doubt if he can, whose image and lu
perfcription it bears.
It feleCte the indiviflual member, who mov
ed for th* enquiry into the state of the Trea
sury, at the objeCt of newfpiper animadyerfi
•ii } although the tacit breacli of the constitu
tion by the Setretary, and the rejection of a
propofitfon of like import at the preceding
fellion, Confpiied in stimulating him to do Ms
duty.
It is in theftile of a remonstrance from a
constituent, who " acjuicfces in tie fujficierty oj
motivesbut yet censures the ast itlelf.
It censures the reasons leading to the reso
lutions ] it admits of the fufficiency of the
motives inducing the refolutiens ; it censures
the resolutions as requiring an impracticable
compliance ; it still promises to perform this
impracticability; and having easily effected
it, boasts of a success, which " must obviate
every idea of a balance unaccounted for."
What is this but one tissue of contradiHion ?
It amuses people, by a labored explanation
of an ingenious contrivance, by which two
millions may be turned and turned, until the
result is—o.
It endeavors to change tlie objeCt of enqui
ry, by soliciting the public attention to an
examination of the accuracy of a conjectural
statement:
And it concludes with an injunction upon
the members ofCongrefs to wait upon his of
ficers for information, left their enquiries
(hould turn out to he iiifignificant, especially
iffnujHted upon a " voluntary difdojure" of the
Secretary himfelf.
The motives and ''ffeCts of theft indicati
ons, deserve some portion of the public atten
tion.
What member of Congnefs wilt in future
move for a " Jlatement oj the receipts and expen
ditures of pui/ic money," if be is to be dragged
into a newspaper controversy, and expoled to
the odium and abu « of tlw paper feftion, set
on-hy the matter of the pack?
When Cotigrefs itfelf isaccofted in a m«-
jefteria! stile of condef'cention (if the expreffi.
on is allowable) does it not evince a reliance
upon foine hidden influence ? Especially should
Congress {hi ink from its own ast, and surren
der at discretion one of its own members) as
a hostage for their future good behaviour.
Are not contradictions, and uninteresting
transmutations of fifcal entries, indicative of
a design to deceive and mislead ?
Is not the attempt to detach the public eye
from its tme obieft, fulpjcious I The Jure
often decoys a whole flock of pigeons from
their f'afe line of progress, into the net of the
merc'fefs sportsman. And is not an attempt
to avoid public enquiries, by a reference of
individual members tofifcal officers, designed
to continue the p'efent darkness of the pub
"llc mind, as to the knowledge of public funds ?
Fellow citizens, piece these circumstances
together, and extract the result for your
felvts.
Democracy delights in public knowledge
—Simplicity ought to be the garb of her fifcal
arrangements—with inviolability (be reveres
and fulfills the constitution, because it is the
will of the people—She is jealous of the inde
pendence of the legislature, collectively and
individually—She abhors artifice, perplexity,
and intrigue—with alacrity and pcrfpicuity
flie gives an account of her conduct—and Jh'e
exhibits public funds in doilari and cent*. for
erery palTenger to view.
A contrary coniiuft cannot be tlie effect of
accident; it is the result of political f/fteijl,
and ignorance itfelf, unblinded by inte»»fl,
cannot find a difficulty in difcorering irflit
that system is. f ttANKtyjtj
Feb nary 15.
M * . Fen no,
THERE rs a curious ftatcment rerpabltfbed j
in your Jaft Gazette, from the American ]
ftailv Advertiser, refpe&inp the states who voted
ogainjl Mr. Adams, and againjl the doors of liic|
Scnate bring ihut. A.drpitttng tht ftateYnw to
be conefl, which is not the fa£l*, Whit does it
prove?—lt provei tmt—that Mr. Adams is re
elected Viee-Prefident, by a large majority of-theJ
dates— and that a large majority ofr the states
have not expieffcd an opinion refpe&ing the k
opening of the Senate Chamber Doors.—Hot it
would puzzle any one to find out the lead con
nexion between these circumstances. Are the
fentimems of the Vice-President on the que (lion
of opening the doors, afeertained hereby? or
rather, does it not clearly appear, that a majo*
rity of the states ag»ee in opinion with the very
large majority of the Senate. It is granted that
the majority is nothing, when, put in competition
with the views of party. > C. .
* Nfirth-Caroh'/ra, it appear j, divided on the qvej
tion-~as tvel!as South-Carolina and Maryland*—and
one oj the Georgia Senators was absent.
MR. Fen NO,
The following extraftjrom the New- Brunfuiick Ad
vertijer,if recommended to the peru sal ofM* candid
invejligators oj the bay* Your's, Z.
" IN free governments, where men enjoy the
JL rightof judging for themfelv*», divorfity
of fcntimcnt refpe&ing public men and meafurrs
mull be expe&ed, and is, indeed, unavouWtfle.
This d'yerfity however, is attrnded with good Or
bad effeftt, according to the principle from
which it If the agent be an honrft and
candid enquirer, it his object be truth and in
formation, he will be ever open to conviction—
and,, when convinced, will think it no dishonor
to retra& and acknowledge his error. But on
the contrary, if his mind be darkened by preju
dice,, be guided by felfifli views, or a&uated by
party spirit, his opinion, however erroncoufly
formed, no course of reasoning nor of facts can
induce him td forego. He may be refuted, but
will be convinced ; truth mav dazzle him
by its brightness, bu* will nev«r eradiate or cheer.
To attempt conri&ion under such circumftanees,
would be labor unprofitably bestowed."
Of the GRATED LODGE of free and accept
ed MASONS for the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, . r
TO THEIR HONOURED AND ILLUSTRIOUS
BROTHER GEORGE WASHINGTON.
WHILST the hijlorian is defcribihg the
career of your glory, and the inhabit
ants of an extensive empire are 'happy
in your unexampled exertions—whiltt some
ce'ebrate the //fro, so diftinguiihed in liber*
ating united America, and others the Patriot
who nrefides over her Councils, a hand tf bro
thers having always joined the acclamations
of their countrymen, row teftify their re
fpeft for those milder virtues which have
ever graced the Man.
Taught by the precepts of our Society that
all its Members /land upon a level, we venture
to afTume this station, and to approach yon
with that freedom, which diminishes our dif
fidence, without leflenitig our re/pest: Deli
rous to enlarge the boundaries of social bap
pinefs, and to vindicate the ceremonies of
their Institution, this Grand Lodge havepub
lifhed a " Book of Cmjlitutions," (and a .copy
for your acceptance accompanies this) which,
by discovering the principles that actuate,
will speak the eulogy of the Society—tkough
they fervently wi(h the conduct of its Mem
bers may prove its highest commendation.
Convinced of his attachment to its cause,
and benevolent designs, they have taken the
liberty to dedicate this work to Out, thoqua
lities of whose heart, and the anions of Wiofe
lifej have contributed to improve personal
virtue, and extend throughout the world, the
mod endearing cordialities; and they jhum
bly'hope, he will pardon this freedom, arid ac
cept this tribute of their efleem and homage.
May the Supreme Architect of the Uni
verse protest and bless you, give yon length
of days, and inci ease of felicity in this world,
and then receive you to the harmonious and
exalted Society in Heaven.
JOHN CUTLER, Grand Majltr.
JOSI AM BARTLETT, ? „ in, .
MUNGO Mackay, £ Gr " nd War
Boflon December 27, A. 1. 1792.
7# the GRAND LODGE of fkf.e end ac
cepted MASONS far the Commnnu ealih oj
Massachusetts.
FLATTERING as it may be to the hu
man mind, and truly honorable as it is, to re
ceive from onr fellow-citizens testimonies of
approbation for exertions to promote the
public welfare—it is not left pleasing to know,
that the milder virtues of the heart are high
ly refpefted by a society whose liberal prin
ciples are fonnded in the immutable lawiof
truth and justice.
To enlarge the sphere of social happiness is
worthy the benevoJent design of a Masonic
Institution. And it is most fervently to be
wished, that the conduct of every member of
the f aternity, as well as those publications
that discover the principles which a&uate
them, may tend to convince mankind that
the grandohjeft of Maforiry is to promote the
happiness of the human race.
While I be« your acceptance of mv thanks
for the " Book of Constitutions" which vou
have Tent me, and for the honor you have
done me in the dedication, permit me to aflure
AN ADDRESS
ANSWER.
302
yon, that I fee) all thole amotions of grati
tude which your affectionate Address and
cordial wiflies, are calculated to inspire.—
And L finely pray that the Gjmat Archi
tect of the Univet fe.may bless you here, and
receive you hereafter in tys fmmortal Temple.
. , & WASHINGTON.
LAW OF, THE UNION.
SF.COM)
CONGRESS GF THE UNITED STATES,
aHt the second session,
1 afed held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the St arte of P6nnfylvania, on Monday
the fifth ®f November, one thousand
Ifeven hundred and ninety-two.
An ACT to continue in force for a
limited time, and to amend the
A<ft, intituled, " An Ast provid
ing the Means of Intercourse be
tween the United States and Fo
reign Nations."
ca- *D E lt ky the Senate and
■ m *' X3 1 House of Reprrfentativrs of the •
Uinited States of America, mCongrefs affcmbled,
That the ast, intitule*, " An aA providing the
means of intercourse between the United Stales
and foreign nations," which wonld expire at the
end of the present feflion of Congress, be, and
the fame hereby if, together witbthis ad, conti
nued in force for the space of one ye*r» from the
parting of this ast, and from thence, until the
end of the feflion of Congref»the«, or next there
after holden, and no Irvuger.
See, 2. And be it further enabled, That ifi all
cases, where any sum or sums of money have is
sued, or (hall hereafter issue, from the treasury,
for the pu» pofes'of intercourse or treaty, with
foreign nations, in pursuance of any law, the
Prcfidem b«r, »nd he hereby is authorized,
to cause the fame to be duly fettled annoally with
the accounting officers of the treasury, in man
ner following, that is to fay ; by causing the
fame to be accounted for, fpecificaHy, in ail in
stances, wherein the expenditure thereof may,
in his judgment, be made public ; and by mak
ing a certificate or certificates, or causing the Sc
cicfary of State to make a certificate or certifi
cates of the amount of such expenditures, as he
may think it advisable uot to fpccify ; and every
such certificate (ball be dc< mcd a fufficient
voucher for the sum or sums therein exprefled
to have been expended.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
oj the House of Reprefrvtatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejident of the
United States, and Prejident of the Senate,
APPROVED, FEBRUARY C), 1793.
GEO. WASHINGTON,
Prejident of the United States.
Foreign Affairs.
M I L A N, Nov. 1 5 .
THE government of Austrian
Lombardy having offered the
pay of thirty-two sous and a half
per day (about thirteen pence ster
ling) to every volunteer that chose
to goto fight the French, who threat
ened to invade that country, such
was the enthusiasm among the peo
ple, and particularly among the in
habitants of the mountains, to de
fend their country againftthe inva
ders, and so many crowded to the
places of rendezvous, that it was ex
pelted an army of more than one
hundred thousand of the ablest fight
ing men would be formed in a very
(hort time.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
DECEMBER I.
LETTER FROM GEN.~JDUMOURIER.
Liege, Nov. 28.
" Citizen President,
" AT the head of the bravest
troops in the universe, I attacked
yesterday morning at seven o'clock
the rear guard, of the lmperialifts,
commanded hy Gen. Staray, and
confiding of 12,c00 men at least. I
had not so many for a great part of
the day,' but when the whole of the
National Army displayed itfelf, the
enemy thought of retreating, after
having been forced in fix villages
with the loss of their General.
" Prudence, and the fltortnefs of
the day, prevented me from enter
ing the city. J entered it at nine
this morning, and it is impoflible for
me to describe the joy and the de
lighful sensations which the inha
bitants experienced at our arrival—
Republican ideas have here the fame
characters of reason and energy in
France. I dare affirm, that in four
days a National Guard will be per
fectly Organized, and that in fifteen
Liege will have a National Conven
tion. The French ariny (hews it
felf every day more and more wor
thy of the cause which it supports,
and deserves that you fiiould at
tend to its wants. Our loss dees
not exceed ij or 20 men killed or
wounded—that ot the enemy to j
or 600 at lealt, among whom they
b«. t« npn, .fc„, .11, o„ t
rill, '"* •»"
" I have taken up' my lod £ i n ..
in the Palace of the Bilbopof Lit e e
who went off precipitately at three'
o'clock yesterday morning. I
cßufe Citizen Jolcvet to take an ex.
a«ft inventory of the papers he ha»
left.
(Signed) DUMOURrER..
" P.S. Lieut. Col. Philip Devaux
il the bearer of these difpaicbes."
Kerfant moved, that a letter of
thanks might be sent to Gen. Du
mourier; but this was opposed by
several members, who Paid it would
be time enough when he liadfinifli
ed his career.
The committee of public instruc
tion was oedered to draw up a ge
neral address to all the armies, and
their commanders.
Gen. Dumourier's Aid-duCamn
being admitted to rhe Bar, said, 1
cannot N yet officially announce t«
you, tliat the citadel of Antwerp it
taken, but I can assure you that i*
has furreiidered.
Dccembtr j4. Eurther particolat-i
were read from the somtniffioner*
sent 10 the Belgic army. On the
evening of the Bth of' December,
there was in the army chest 445,00»
livres in specie, and 243,000 in dlig.
naj». The inhabitants of the coun
try will not receive attignats, which
proceeds from a number of forged
ones having been circulated by the
emigrants. On Saturday night Du.
moorier waited on the commission.
ers, and laid before them a letter
from the war minister, relative to
the march of the army. He told
them his views differed from those
of the executive council, and that
he wished some old experienced of.
ficers to decide which were the best.
The army has plenty of provisions,
and is only in want of cloathing
and forage. Their {hoes are of a
very bad quality, the leather tear
ing like paper. The men, howe
ver, are all anxious to march, noi
withftanding they are almost naked.
Ir O N D © N, December 4. "
""* "fr'J'n**"'' »PT|*icrj»
parts of the kingdom appear to b<
the mod alarming. In Scotland
there have been several infurree
tions, but of no other importance
than that they fliew the turbulent
difpolition of some of the people
there. In Yorkfhiie, particularly
at Sheffield, in Northumberland,
and in Durham, a spirit of riot hat
(hewn itfelf. In imitation of the
French, the general cry among these
rioiers is, let us have a more .equal
division of property, for whyfhould
one man be richer than another?
The number of seditious clubs in
and about the metropolis, has like
wise become a feriousevil. Bu.tfuch
is the vigilance of government, and
so strong is the spirit of loyalty in
the people to support the conflitu
tion, that we have no reafoivtobe
under very great alarm.
One hundred and twenty perfon#
mostly lrifh, are forming a plan of
an intended republican system for
Great-Britain, at White's hotel in
Pari». Paine and Gen. Santerre are
alternately chairmen.
Domestic Articles.
BOSTON, Feb. 6.
The Regent of Sweden, in recog»
nizing the French Rupublic, adled
rather prematurely. The proper
time for such a nieafnre will b e
when the new conftitmion of France
is adopred, and in operation. When
this takes place, the government of
the United States will, if poflible,
be the firft to acknowledge and cor.
dially to congratulate her fitter.
Capt. Snow, who arrived hereyel
terday, in 27 days from Martinico,
informs, that on rhe day he failed,
a capitulation had been agreed up
-011, that the National Flag of France
ihould be fubftitnted in the room of
the Aristocratic Flag, the next day;
and that on the fame day the Hag
was hoisted at Thac
the downfall of the late spirit of re
bellion was complete, and that
mavket for American produce wa*
good.
•• ,r£ correspondent.at Portland fays,
if We expect the town of Bolton
will (hortly be incorporated, as it
at present abounds with a multipli
city of Citizens
The legillature of Maryland, in
their late feflion, Resolved that the
clcfsd dotrs of the Federal Senate
was a very great grievance ! The
doors of the Senate of Maflachufetts
have ever been ftiut, and yet its ci
tizens do not conceive that they are
yer y greatly opprefled by the mea
sure a patriotic member of
the House was lately heard to fay,
that he would sooner vote for clos
ing the gallery of the House, iniire
iy, than to vote for opening one in
the Senate —for then, fays he, we
jhould do more hufinefs, by having
Jess speeches made at the gallery,
than we now have.
The following article has been
inserted in the Philadelphia papers,
as an Oddity : but if such, it was an
oddity which every American was
happy in exhibiting, at the date df
it. Cufloms and ideas may change,
but gratitude ought to be eternal :
ExtraQ from the journals of Congress,
Jugufi 23, 17,79.
" Resolved unaninioufly,
" That a committee, confiding of
one member from each state, be ap
pointed to congratulate the Minister
of France, on the anniversary of the
birth of his Mod Christian Majesty,
and to aflure him, that theplealure
we feel on this occasion can be esti
mated by those only who have a
jull sense of the extensive bleflings
which many nations have already
deiived from his wisdom, jullice,
and magnanimity, and of the prof
f eft of general happiness to man
kind through the influence of his
Majesty's virtuou* exertions, and glo
rious example."
Captain Joseph Ingraham, of the
brig Hope, of Boston, on a voyage
v to tite N. \V. coast of America, in
April 1791, made the fit ft discovery
(as he supposes) of a cluster of
lilands ; to which he gave the names
of W !l fhii'gtnn, Adams, Lincoln,
Federal, Fr&nklin, Hancock, and
Knox.— Wailiingion's Island is in
S. lat 8. 52. long. W. of London
' T4O, 19 and the 1 eft lying near.—
Capt. Ingi aham called on his officers
and men to witn'efs that he " claim
ed them as a new discovery, and
belonging to the United States of
America."
Died, at Menotomy, the 2d inft.
Capt. Samuel Whittemore, yEt. 99.
The manly and ilioral virtues, in all
the various relations of brother,
husband, father and friend, were,
Invariably, exhibited in this gentle
man. He was not more remarkable
for his longeviiy, and his numerous
defendants (his progeny being 185,
one of which is the 6fth generation)
than for his patriot ism. When the
jiritifh troops marched to Lexing
ton, he was 81 years of age, and
one of the firft on the parade ; he
was armed with a gun and horfe
piftof 5. after an animated exhorta
tion to the colleified militia, to the
exertion of bravery and courage, he
exclaimed, " If 1 can oniy be the
inftrufnent of killing one of my
country's foes, I fliall die in peace,"
The prayer of this venerable old
man was heard—for 011 the return
of the troops, he lay behind a stone
wall, and discharging his gun, a
I'oldier immediately fell ; he then
difcttarged his pistol and killed ano
ther ; at which instant a bullet struck
his face, and shot away part of his
cheek-bone ; on which a number of
the soldiers ran up to the wall, and
gorged their malice 011 his wound
ed head ; they were heard to ex
claim, " We have killed the old re
bel." About four hours after, he
was found in a mangled {((nation,
his head was covered with blood
from the wounds of thp bayonets,
which were fix or eight ; but pro
videntially none penetrated so far
as to destroy him ; his hat & cloaths
were (hot through in many places,
yet he survived to fee the complete
overthrow of his enemies, and his
country enjoy all the blessings of
peace and independence.
ALBANY, February 4.
Or the lift ult. that famous new bridge,
acrotsthe Mohawk river, nearold-fort-Schuy
ler compleated, by thole very ingenious
mechanics, MelT. J#(eph Pierce and Thomas
Scott.
CONGRESS.
BOUSE OF REPfiESEtfrATfVES'.
SATURDAY, Feb. 16.
Mr. Miltadge presented the petition of Oliver
Bowen, praying an adjustment and payment of
several sums due 10 him Far services rendered
the foiled. States during the late war.
In committee of the whole, 011 the bin for
establishing fees in the treasury department fpr
the transfer of public fecurilics.
Mr. Steele ii» the chair.
The Chairman reported the bill with one
amendment, which was read in the House, and
by consent, laid on the table for further tjofifi
deration. -t >-
Mr. Murray, from the committee on the Poll-
Office Law, laid a report on the table.
Adjourned,
MONDAY, Feb. 18
Mr. Murray, of the committee appointed to
revile the Poll-Office Law, brdught in a report f
which was read, and committed for to-morrow.
This report propafes, that pamphlets and ma
gazines Ihould be circulated thro' the medium
of the poft-office, at a portage os-one cent per
fticet'for any distance not exceeding fifty miles—
and two cents for any greater diltance. —Some
alterations »» the present routs of the port, and
sundry new routs or roads are also proposed.
Reports on the petitions of Francis Sherlock
and Hannah Stciner, were r^ad—thefc were uri.
favorable to the petitioners.
A report waj read on the petition of Ephraim
Kemberly— this is favorable to the prayer of
the petition, and was accepiexbA-the committee
which brought in the report was dire&cd to
bring in a bill conformably -thereto.
Petitions were read from Wm. Frost, and Ja
cob Gibfop, praving compensation for military
frrvices during the Ute war. Referred to the
Secretary of War.
A petition was read from*hc.Dire&ors tlje
Library Company of the city of. Philadelphia,
and Trufldes of the Loganian Library,. praying
that books imported (or this Library,-and other
similar inftitmions, may be exempted from du
ty. Referred to a fele& committee, confuting
of Mcflfrs. Findley, Murray.and Lawrance.
A meflage from the Senate, by-Mr. Otis, their
Secretary, informed the House that they have
concurred in the bill to authorize an adjustment
and fottlementof the claim oi Jofcph Hcnderfon
agaiuft the United States.
Mr. Heifter, of the committee on enrolled
hills, reported as truly enrolled, a bill entitled,
An act to promote the progress of ufefnl arts,
&c. and An act to repeal part of a resolution of
the late Congress of the United States, of the
29th August, 1788, refpccting the inhabitants of
Post St. Vincennes. The Speaker signed the
fame.
A ipefiage wasree'd from the President of the
U. States, by Mi. Secretary Lear—with a map of
the territory of the United States on the Poiow
mac—and a report of the commiflioners respect
ing the fame—The Secretary also notified the
Houfc, that two acts which originated in the
h»d-t«ceiv£d the President's approbation
and fignatuie, viz. An act for licencing and tn
r.olling (hips or vessels employed in the coasting
trade, and for regulating the sam an act
to fix the compensation of the President and
Vice-Piefjdent of the United States.
In committee of the whole on the amend
ments reported by a select committee, to the bill
in addition to the act to establish the Judicial
Courts of the United States;
Mr. Steele in the chair.
The bill, with the amend ments, were read—
some opposition was made to the amrndrnrnts— r.
» moiion for the committee to 'rife, was made
ffii loft—the committee proceeded thro' the
difcalGon .of the and agreed tp
ihrm all—other amendments were proposed, but
not agreed to. The committee then rose and re
ported the amendments, which being taken inio
consideration by the-Houfe, were adopted, ex
cept the lafl.
Mr. Murray brought forward a lengthy
amendment relative to special bail—which he
had moved,but which had been disagreed to in
committee of the whole. Without deciding od
this amendment, the Hoofe adjourned.
FRIDAY, February 19.
The communication received yesterday
from the President of the United States re
fpefting the Federal Territory, was read, and
laid on the table.
A petition from the merchants and tracers
of Providence, (R. I.) was pi efented by Mr.
Bourn, read, and referred to the Secretary of
the Treafurjr
The petition of Caleb Newbold and others,
was read and referred as above.
A petition was read frjim the manufafhir
ers of paper; the design of which is to coun
teract the petition of the printers and book
sellers, who had petitioned that the duty on
imported printing paper of particular de crip,
tions, lhou!d lie taken off—'aid on the table,
A petition was presented by Mr. Gordon,
from fevei al. officers of the regiment com
manded by Co 1 . Seth Warner in the late war,
which was read, and referred to the Secretary
of War.
A report w*s brought in t>y Mr. Dayton, on
the petitions of f'everal persons, refugees from
Canada during the late war—This report is
favorable to the petitioners—read, and refer
red to the committee of the whole, on Satur-
day next.
Ameflage va* received from the Senate-by
Mr. Secretaiy Otis, with the bill authoriz »g
the Comptroller of Hie Trealary to fettle the
claim of Thomas Wifhart, a lieutenantof the
late army of the United States, passed the Se
nate with an amendment.
A petition of Thomas Coit was read, l Snd
referred to the Secretary of the Treafur}.
A second mell'age from the Senate informed
the Hout'e, that they insist on some, and recede
from others of their amendments to the bill
to regulate claims to invalid pensions.
Mr. Sedgwick, after some introductory ob
fervacions relative to a decision of the Judges
303
df the Supreme Court, made yeflerday, re*
fpe&ing the liability of dates to be sued by
individuals, and which decision is affirmative
of that idea—made the following motion, viz.
Resolved, l»y the Senate and House of Re
presentatives of the United States of America,
in Congress aifembled, two thirds of both
fibufes concurring, that the following article
bd proposed to the legjilatUres of the several
fUtes, as an amendment of the Conftltution
of the United States, which, when ratified by
three-fourths of the said legislatures, (hail be
valid to all intents and purposes, as parts of
the said Constitution, viz.
That no £1 ate (hall be liable to be Made a
party defmdant, in any of the judicial courts,
cftablilhed, or Which (hall be eftablilhed under
tie authority of the United States, at the
fuitof amy person or persons, whethhr a citi
zen or citizens, or a foreigner or foreigners,
f>r of any body politic or corporate, whether
within or without the United States—laid on
the table. —r
A report from the Secretary of State, on
the petition of John Rogers, was read and laid
on the table. ■
A meflage was receivad from the President
of the United States by his Secretary Mr. Le
ar, notifying the House, that an appropriation
would be neceflary to defray the expense of
holding a treaty with the hostile Indian tribes.
Mr. Giles called the attention of the House,
to the refaction refpefting the Commilfion
ers of the finking fund—He proposed as a fub
ftitutefor that resolution, the fpllowing, viz.
Refolvei), that the Commiflioners for pur
cfiafirlg flie public "debt, be directed to lay be.
fore this House a ftatetjient of all their pro
ceedings, not heretofore furnilhed.
This resolution occasioned some debate.
Mr. Barnwell moved to strike out the
word "proceedings," and to insert the word
put chafes. After further debate this motion
tVas withdrawn, on a motion of amendment
to the following purport, offered by Mr. Stur
ges, viz. to insert after the words " this
Houfe"—Thtir refotves as Ctuhmiffioners approved
iy the President of the United State;, ard an account
of the purchases wade Jubfcquent to their lajl report —
The debate was continued on this amendment.
•—The Ayes, and Naet on the fame being
{called, it wai negatived—Ayes 30 —Noe« 31.
Mr. Dayton then moved to (trike out—"not
heretofoie fur'nifticd," and tp insert under the a&
for the pur chafe oj the public debt, since the date of
their lajl %epart.—This motion was loft, Ayes 18
—Not s 43.
The Ayes and Noes were then called on the
original motion, which was carried in the af
firmative ; Ayes.£9—Noes 22.—As follows :
A YES,
MefTrs. Aftie, Baldwin, Clark, Findley, Gerry,
Giles, Gordon, Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Hartley,
Heifter, Key, Kittera, Lee, Macon, Madilon,
Mercer, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Niles,
Page, Parker, Schoon maker, J. 'Smith, I. Smith,
T. Steele, Sumpter, Sylvester, Treadwell, Tuck
■?f,"Venable, White, Willis, Greenup, Milled ge,
,Orr, -
N O E S.
MefTrs. Ames, Barnwell, Betifon, Boodinot,
S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Dayton, Fitzfimon*, Gil
man, Goodhue, Hillboufr, Huger, Kitchell,
Liwfance, Learned, Livermore, Sedgwick,
Sturges, WadfwoTth* Ward, Leo
nard. —22. v
The meflage from the President of the United
States received this day was read. It fpecifici
that a treaty is to be held with the hoftileTribes,
North-Weft 6f the Ohio—and is accompanied
with an estimate from the Secretary of War, of
the probable expence which will attend the fame.
A committee consisting of Messrs. Boudinot,
White and Wadfworth, was appointed to take
the fame into confiderarion.
The amendment of the Senate to the bill in
favor of Thomas Wiflhart, was concurred in by
the House.
Mr. Fitzftmons laid a motion on the table;
the purport of which is, that provision be made
for the witnefles and clerk who attended the
late enquiry into the causes of the failure of the
expedition under Gen. St, Clair.
Adjourned.
Philadelphia, Feb. 20.
Friday Evening next, being the Birth-Night
of the President of the United States, there will
be a Ball at the CityDancingAffembly-Room.
A C A R D.
The Managers oj the City Dancing Assembly re
quejl to be honored with the Company us the Speaker
and Houje oj Representatives oj the United States, at
aßall, on Friday the 22d February.
The Legidatare of Maflachufetts is now assem
bled in Boston. The following extract from
Governor Hancock's Speech, it opening (he fel
fion, compitzes the cffence of true republican
ism, and adverts to the only efficient means of
fnefcrving and ferpttuatihg public liberty—rv*-
Lic Education.
thi >*T«»eT,
41 It is the part of a wife people in the day of
theii ptofperity, to tecolleft the principles which
produced their public fehcitv ; or as it is well
expressed in she declaration of rights prefixed Co
the form of our Government, " A frequent re
currence to the Inndamental principles of the
ConAiiution, and a conlUnt adherence to tjiofe
of Piety, Jnftue, Moderation, Tcmpeiauce, fn
duftrv arc F<ngality, are ahfoluiely iieceffarj to
preserve the ol Liberty,and to main
tain a free Government."
Amongst ihe means bv which our Govern
ment Has beeti r»iCrtf to its piefcot height h of
' profper.tty, that of Edoeation baa been the mod
efficient: y.ou will therefore encourage and fup
poii our UnTvrt&ty and Academies; but mare
'"watchfully, she Grammar and other Town
Schools. These offer equJ advantages «o poor
and rich, and fliould the support or {uch .nlli
tuiians h< n<gleAed, that kind of Education,
which ■ free CovciaoMhi requires, to miatataia
' its force, wo*ld very Coon be forgotten."
The adm'n'ftration of Great-Britain carries a
greater majority in Parliament in the present
leffion, than it at almost any former penotl.
On the late motions of Mr. Fox, the minorities
were very sm all, viz. Fihy on the amendment
propoted to the aodrefs to the King, and Folly
in favor of fending an Ambassador to France.—
Notwithstanding this, there is reason to expe&
that the buf;nefs of a reform will not be loft
fight of—and that Miniftrv itfelf will favor every
legal and temperate pmpofition.foi that purpose.
Ii they do not, it docs not requite the fpivit, of
prophecy to predict a convuUed ifcatc of thing*
at a period not very remote*
Subscriptions for ercsing Bridges over Hatk,
infack and Paftaick Rivers, in New-Jerky, i&v.
ing been opened in New-York and Newark,
we*e immediately filled-— so that tfcc public
may expect those highly necelTary wotks will be
speedily undertaken and executed.
Price Current at Quebec % Jan. 16.
Butter per lb. from 8 to 12 coppers ; Tun
kies is. 6d. each ; Gees- Bd. to lod. F#wls Bd.
to jod. a pair ? Flour 7s. to Bs. per cwt. Beef a
to 4 coppers per lb. Mutton, by the carcase, - as.
6d. to ss.
Extract of a fetter from BoJlon y dated Jan. 31.
" As a (ample of the plenty which abounds
in our country, I will mention two instances.-—
The day before our lad anniversary Thanksgiv
ing, there were fifteen hundred turkies and (oven
hundred and sixty geese, fold in the market of
this town ; and the day before Chriflmas, twelve
hundred turkies, and upwards of fix hundred
geese, were fold: besides these, the supplies of
fowls, beef, pork, mutton, &c. were immense.
Our Glass-Works are now going on with spirit;
they make about 200 ftieets pei week, near four
feet diameter, of thebeft Glass I ever saw. M
COMMUNICATIONS.
Mirabeau has told us in the National GuzetU,
what arc they»rerunners of Monarchy and Aris
tocracy. Condorcet, in a subsequent Gawtte,
has added some after-runners. The latter sup
poses that the pure spirit of that deified faint,
Mirabeau, who, every body knows, hated vice
all his life long, and who died a martyr to it,
as fame tells us, that chaste, sober patriot foul,
from the region appointed for such fort of peo
ple, looks down on the United States with patft
and sorrow to fee the vices they indulge in, and
the dangers that await them. They intimate,
be had rather go backhand take his chance, than
stay and be' a fpeftator. It seems as it these kin
dred spirits were not ignorant of each other's
state, and our Mirabeaus make ufc ot the fpiric
of the departed as their familiar.
Is it, or is it not to be regretted, that as Mi
rabeau has left his principles behind hira, he has
not left his talents. His disciples are as profli
gate, not as wife.
We are told in certain orations, of the magic
of the Funding System. There seems to be a
magic which forneiiines inspires the orators to
condemn it, as giving the holders of the certifi
cates too much—and at others they condemn it #
as not having given enough ; and they urge the
propriety of giving the balance saved by the pub
lic to the officers. Thus, as sorcery and magic
work on the party, the crow is rometimes white
and sometimes black. Can these conjurers tell
how much the public has saved by givjng too
much to the creditors.
There art certain persons who would
suited by having no laws. There are oihfc*»
Who have urgent reasons to carry thcra ftiU fur
ther. They must have dishonest laws. No
wonder then we have a clamor froin aU-the
tribe jwho hunger and thirst to fee iniquity
established by law. They hate monied systems,
and all plans of public credit. Paper bill* aj*4
tender a£ts, having neithei of those corruprm'g
ingredients, money or credit, in them, would
fit their fancy to a hair.
There is a complaint that the difoftt parts of
the Union are not completely informed of the
nature of public measures. If that complaint 1 i
well grounded, it affords a good reason for tKfc
people at a distance being very flow id believtf
evil reports of their governmerft, as they ar*
very liable 10 be deceived, and imposed upon.
It should be remarked, that falfehood otiC-traVeli
the post. The carriers of falfe news do not wait
to make up their mail, nor are they detained if
any poft-office. In proportion as there it a
defect of true information in any part of th*
Union, there is an abundance of that whrch hi
not true. The best remedy for this mrfehief, u
for the people to suspend their judgments on
public measures, rill they can get poiTefled oK
fufficient grounds to form them maturely.
There are certain popularity feekeTs, who go
about to all public meetings like so many ped*
lars. It is a barter trade—lies against pubtic
officers, and abuse of Congress without meafurt,
are trucked off for party influence and votes.
INFORMATION.
PRAY what avails the call for Information,
To make more wife the faget of the
The more the light,the darkness is the greater;
The Lord enlighten then our legiftattire!
Died, Monday the nth inft. Mrs, Mi*v
Bkinghurst, wife of Mr. John Bringhurft,
merchant, of this city.—-Mrs. Bringhurft was
amiable—(he pofleffed a sweetness of difpoii
tion, and pleating brilliancy of imagination—*
which, with her personal attractions, render,
ed her highly engaging as a companion—but
(he pofleffed more folld qualities, which secured
the heart, and ri vetted the attachment of the
husband and the friend.
Long, ItngJhall mem'ry en thy virtues, dwell,
Ana I tug lament the Jlrohe by which they Jell:
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cer.ts, 18f(j
3 per Cents, \yf
Deferred, >«/»
Full lh»re» Bank V. S. 15 per cent, premJUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
SukfelliT, at the Stnc-Hwje, i* Second Jirccl,
Phi lade lphia,
VOLUME VII, of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
oa # A DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
AND
MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On d Plan entirely new
ST WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
are digested into the Form of
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
COMPREHENDING
THE History, Theory, and Practice, of each,
according to the Latest Discoveries and im
provements : and full Explanations given of the
various detached partt of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural ahd Artificial Objects, or to
Matters Ecclcfiaftical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, See. Including Elucidations of the mod im
portant Topics relative to Religion,Morals,Man
ners, and the Oeconomy of L'fe : together with
a Dcfcription of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, &c. throughout
the World ; a General History, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empires, Kingdoms,
and States; and an account of the Lives of the
moll Eminent Persons in every Nation, from the
earliest ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the bed author?, in
ieveral Languages ; the most approved Dictiona
ries, as well of General Science as of particular
branches ; the Transitions, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned societies, both at home and
abroad.—the MS. le£tures of eminent profeffors
On different Sciences : and a variety of original
Materials, furnifhed by an extenfivc Correspon
dence.
The Seventh Volume contains a description
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Expe
rimental Philosophy, System of Farriery, Feudal
fyfttm, Fire, fixed Air, Flux ions ,Tood, Fortifica
tion, Fofliis, hiftoryof France, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Glass,
&c. with a variety of articles in natural history,
biography and miscellanies. Illustrated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
J. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the purpose) which
will be'occafionally renewed before they con
tract a worn appearance.
11. The work is furnifhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcribmg, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
* work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia : which by
far exceed in number those given in any other
fcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expcfled the work will be compiifed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
Those who wish to become pofleflbrs of
fhisvaluable work will pleafeto be early in their
applications, as the fubfeription is nearly closed.
Jan. 23.
War Department,
January 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
tne sums to which they are entitled for fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1793, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioners of the Loans
within the dates refpeftively, under the usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mud be ac
companied by the following vouchers :
iff. The certificate given by the, Hate, fpecify.
ing that the pcrfon poffefling the lame is in fafi
an Invalid, and al'certaining the sum to which,
as such, he is annually intitled.
ad. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Justices
ofilhe county of in the date of and
oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his possession was giv
en, of which ihe following is a copy (the cer
tjficate given by the date to be recited) That
he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the
time he was dilabled, and that he now resides
in the and county of and hssnfided
there for the lad years, previous to which
he resided in
In cafe an Invalid Ihonld apply for payment
by an attorney, the said attorney, befides'.he
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a special letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
I, A. B. of county of (late of
do hereby Conftittue and appoint C. D. of
my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension for fix months, as an Invalid
of the United States, from the 4th day of Sep
lembcr 1795, and ending the 4th day ot March
'793- .
Signed and Sealed
in the Presence ef
AclSow'edged before mr,
Application! of exectitorj and aclminiftrators
jnflft be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpeftive offices, and also of the timt the
Invalid died, whose pension they may claim.
By Command <Sf the Prrfident
of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
{[3" The Printers in the rcfpeOivt States are re
quejiei to publijh the above in their Neoifpapert jer
tkt Jpace «J 2 nenthf.
BANK OF THEUNITED STATES.
Feb r vart ift, 1793.
WHEREAS foreigners holding Stock in
the Bank of the United Slates miy pre
fer receiving (heir Dividends in Europe, to re
ceiving 1 Hem in America,
RESOLVED, That any proprietor of the
Capital Slock of the Bank ofr the United States
residing in Europe, fhal! be entitled to receive
either in London or in Amsterdam, the half
yearly dividends which may be declared there
on—in London at the rate of one pound sterling
for every four hundred and forty-live cents, or
in Amsterdam at the rate of 011 c guilder current
money for every forty cents and four mills—ihe
dividend declared in January of each year, to
be paid in London or in Amsterdam on the fr
cond Monday of July following—and the divi
dend declared in July of each year, to be paid in
London or in Amsterdam on the {econd Mon
day of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to the declaring of any Dividend, so to be
paid in London or in Amsterdam) shall give au
thentic notice to the President and f)ire£tors of
tlie Bawk at which of the said Cities he will re
ceive the said Dividend,
By the PrCfident and Dire&ors.
JOHN KF. AN, Cafkier.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Resolved,
THAT the Cashier be auihorifed to receive
from the proprietor of any number of com
pleat (hares, such Certificates, not in his own
name, as he may be the proprietor of; and after
cancelling the fame, to issue a new Certificate or
Certificates in lieu thereof, in the name of such
proprietor.
Resolved, That in all future transfers of
compleat shares in the capital flock of the Bank,
the Certificates of the (hares transferred be can
celled, and a new Certificate or Certificates be
issued in the name of the transferee or purchaser.
Resol v ed, That the Certificates in
ilTued, be for one Or more {hares, as the pro*
prietor may request ; and the new Certificate or
Certificates (hall be of correspondent numbers
with those in lieu of which they arc issued.
JOHN UEAN, Cashier.
ep3w
Insurance Company.
AT a grneral meeting (by adjournment) of t
the Insurance Company of North- America,
on Wednesday tfce 16th instant,
It was Resolved,
THAT the Instalments which, according to
the Constitution, will become due on the second
Monday of July and January next, or either of
them, may be paid by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so paying
such instalment, or inftalmftnts, shall receive a
proportionate (hare of the Dividends thereafter
to be made, calculating such ftiare from the firft
day of the month succeeding luch payments re
fpe&ively. Extract from the Minutes,
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Jan. eg.
Advertisement.
Mr. JOSHUA HARRIN,
SIR,
YOU will pleafc to notice, that I intend
to file a Bill in the High Court of Chancery,
in the State of Maryland, to compel you to con
vey the following Tracts of LAND, to wit—
Harbin*s Lot, containing one hundred acres of
land ; Evans's Chance, containing fifty acres of
land ; Piney Grove, containing seventy-two and
one half acres of land ; and part ot James's TraEl y
containing twenty-five acres ; in the whole, two
hundred and forty-feven and one half acrcs of
land ; situate, lying and being, in Montgomery
County, in the State of Maryland ; agreeable to
your Bond of Conveyance, entered into by you
to me the twenty-sixth day of November, 1781.
I am, with due refpeft, thy friend,
JOSEPH EVANS.
Ann Arundel County, Slate oj Maryland,
February ijl, x 7 'g 2 . ( ep 10w )
A New Post-Road.
HAVING been deftred to edablilh a poll,
road from Reading, in the date of Perin
fylfcania, to Williamlturg, at the Great Forks of
the Gefiefee river, Notice is hereby given, that
proposals will be received at the General Pod-
Office, for carrying a weekly mail between
Reading and Williamfaurg aforefcid, by the
following route, to wit : the Great Road now
improving between Reading and the town of
Northumberland ; trom the laiter place to Loyal
Sock creek j thence to Lycoming creek ; thence
in the new road to the Painted Pod, on Tioga
river; and thence to Williamihurg.
The proposals will be received until the ljth
of March next, inclusively ; the carriage of the
mail to commence within one month after
wards.
Necessary Pod-Offices are to be eftabliflied on
the route, and such petfons aDpointed Poll
maders as the Contractor fha 11 name, and the
Podmafter-General approve.
Within three fnontbs after the carriage of this
mail is commenced, the Contra£lor is to (late to
the Podmafter-General the days and hours of its
arrival and departure at and lrom the principal
Poll-offices, which experience lhall prove to be
moll convenient; and thereafter the mail is to
be delivered at the refpe&ive Pod-offices at the
kours so fixed, unavoidable accidents excepted,
on penalty of one dollar for each hour's delay ;
and for the nonperformance of a trip, the Con
tractor to forfeit twetrty dollars.
The term of the coi.trafl cannot exceed eight
years. During its continuance the Contractor is
to receive the rates of podageby law edablilhed,
and to have the exclusive privilege of carrying
letters and packets for hiie, such excepted, as
(ball be sent by a special mefTenger, or which are
or lhall be by law declared free.
TIMOTHY PICKERING, P.M.G.
Gtrural Pojl Office, Jan. 22, 1793.
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER's Ferry.'
304
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Salt, a beautiful situation on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of direction towards the Federal
City and GeorgeTown,in full view of each place,
commanding a profpc& of the fiver and adjacent
country of Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying di
re&ly on the river, will be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-fkory framed
d welling-houfe, neatly finifhed, a kitchen, office,
brick smoke-house and dairy, fwo-ftory framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an lee
houfe, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other nc
cpflary improvemenis ; the whole of the land
enclofcd with posts and rails, tenor fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. lis
contiguity to those three towns must render it an
object worthy the attention of any person who
wishes to invest money in a property that mull
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in
■creafc of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central situation to each place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep fhdre and harbour,
capable of receiving vessels of arty burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might b» eretted here to the Citv of
Washington and the Maryland shores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.—Also to fell, 2*5
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which will suit will to supply the above in
wood and timber. The title may be seen to th*
above property, which is indisputable, and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, living
on the premises.
December 12th, 1792
BY the Commissioners appointed 10 prepare
the Public Buildings, See. withig the City
of Waftiingrow, for the reception of Congress
and for their permanent rcfidence after the year
1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, vi E
1 Superb Hotel, with baths, )
out houses, &c.&c. to cost )
1 Caih Prize
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
soo ditto
200 ditto
40© ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
5,000 are
1,000
500
100
5°
2 5
20
10
16,737 Prize!
33,263 Blanks
50,000
The sole design of this Lottery being to facili
tate other improvements together with the Public
Buildings—it is the particular desire of the Com
miflioners that these may be effected with as
few dedu&ions from the Prizes as possible—how
far their endeavors may be anfwefed, the Scheme
of the Lottery will demonstrate. The keys of
the Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to
the fortunate poffeflor of the ticket drawn a
againft its number.
All the other prizes will be paid, without
deduflion, in one month after the drawing, by
the City Treafuret at Washington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may b« hereafter announced.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9th of September next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. IVm. Dickens, City
Treafurrr of Washington ; of Messrs. James Weft
& Co. Baltimore ; of Mr. Peter Gilman, Boston ;
and at such other places as will be "hereafter
published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for thebcft Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if prejntei
enor bejore the 10tk oj April next; and a pre
ference will be given 10 the Artifl for a Con
trafl, provided he be duly qualified to
cnmpleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erefied, will
be a corner lot of about go by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, &c. Seflions and
estimates of the expense will be cxpr&ed
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars must be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the exprnfe intended lor this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
January 19.
City of Washington.
January jth, 1793.
A NUMBER ©f Lots in this City will be of
fered for sale at auflion, by the Commif
fioncrs, on the 17th day of September next.—
One fourth part of the purchase money is 10 be
paid down, the rcfidue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interefton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Com'rs.
Extract of an Ast of the General AlTembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and ths City ot Washington.
" >t enaftcd, That any foreigner may by
. deed or will, hereafter to be made, take and. hold lands
within that part 0} the said Tet ritory ifihich lies with-
I IB this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi.
L ten *fthis State j and the fame lands may be con
, veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
I h [ s h '"i or "'"''"is, as if he and they were citizens
of thi, State; Provided, Thai no foreigner {hall,
in virtue hereof b, entitled to any fu, the, or other
privilege of a citieen."
' Ja"- l - tf
BALDWIN DADE.
epam
50,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10; 000
lOjOOO
10,000
20,000
150,000
Dollars 350,000
F O R S A t E,
*> **' s *bf<*ihtr, at W,l„^.s trrtl
BILL ot EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fiffor immediate ul<\ in pipes & *
'pENERIFFE WINE,"
A SHERRY WINF., m quarter raft•
west.l NH, A RUM, 3
OLD BRANDY, OLDNPUUI
COPPERAS, BRjSsTONE, All L'W
Two Bale ,o 4 BLANKETs, and
A Bale ot MUSLINS.
A new ,3-4 Inch CABLE, .iofa W,
W.W/M" 7 GEO «ge MEADK
Pfiuaielfiia, Jan. .9,1793. t^m
TO BE SOLD,-or LEASED
►o* lIVIK on Tin Vlld,
THE FOLLOtrjtfC
houses.
on W'lnmt-ftirtt, nrar Fmmhkftrrf
W 23 fprt front, ha, lwp»„l„ utlhc j 0 £
fioniiouc t,t by ~J fc, the bjck
18 by 14 feeu The from room i.p (!*»,« l6 t
S t7 J C V in *"■"> '•""beri ij»
this houfr, besides the glrrtt is divided inl.
tWO 01 tktm "t fitt-
The other House „s? f ret llpon ty aln(|U
meet, and 5 % feet upon 4thftrret; there aretw.
good parlours below, one of them B c by to r .
vE' Ta 1 \" l S by V 8 r" • " ,d t"*" —
pfete bed-chambers; besides the garret is di,
vtded into 4 rooms, 3 of wfcieb rooms have fire,
places. The kitchcns are good onc>, and „ t
under the houses ; the largest house h»s alf„ ,
house-keeper's room. I ( ls intended there still
be a communication from bo'hofthefe houtes
to a neighbour,ng icc-houfe, fufficiemly b r «r i,
fiipply 3 houses. Within 5 o var d s of ? htfe
houses. there »4U be compleK ftnbtes and e*ae£
houses, for both houses ; they will be fimlted
in the mod complest manner, and the kets
ready to be delivered earty in the summer. '
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
oth.r half may be paid by inftilmems. or the
whole may remain for j years, paying inteiell
and giving security on the pretnifej.
For terms of file or lease, apply to the Sub.
Tcriber,
GEORGE MEADE.
Who has Jot SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
sixteen fhilliiigs and fix-pence, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS,that will contain tw6
and a half and three and a halt bulbcls.
Philadelphia, Jan. ig, 1792. ,p lm
40 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 25thinftant,i likely Ne
gro Man called Isaac, about twenty-three
years oid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made fellow, fond of talltiog, Us 3 larg*
mouth, and shows his teeth very much when
talking j had on when he went away, a brown
linen shirt, a short white kersey over jacket with
a very |iigh collar and plain breast, with buttons
which appear to have been very ga'y ; a pair of
white kersey brecches, a pair of while knit yarn
(lockings, a pair of shoes with firings in them,
and a coarse hat ; all the above clothes are al
most new. Said N'egro was fprmerly the pro*
pchy of Mr. William Thomas, late of Kent
County, near George-Town Cross Roads, de
ceaftd, and has for several years been etn'plpveA
in that neighbourhood, and principally hy » Mrv
Maxwell, and lately by Messrs. John and Jame»
Carmack, as a waggoner, which bulinefs he is
well acquainted with, and is what he prefers j
and has been engaged in driving a waggon Trom
said Crofs-Roadj to Duck-Creek, &e. until
August last. I expefi he will make his way for
the neighbourhoods of George-Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will be paid if delivered to rtie in thi»
place, or Thirty Dollars if Cecuied in any goal,
so that I get him again. He is an artful fellow,
and when taken, will make his cfcape, unlcli
particularly secured.
Easton, OWF.N KENNARD.
Talbot County, Mary/and, Dec. bB, 1792. 'tn
RUN-AWAY
FROW THE SUBSCRIBEk, THE |2lh AFRVI.
A NEGRO BOY, named Zeb; Him and tail)
sixteen years old; came to Samuel Lipin
cot's at Bordentown on the 15th, said hii nam«
was Henry, and left that place the 27th May.—
On the 27th day of June, he was taken up m
Bucks County, and carried before a Magillrate',
said he was free, and that he lived on the Suf
q«eh»on*h—that a person by the name of Abra
ham PealJ, took him three days journey from
home, and turned him adrift with one dollar-
He asked the Justice for a pass to go to bis fa
ther, and nothing appeared to the contrary—
He lived with one Thomas Paxwell till the igtli
of this instant, and then made his escape from
him ; he called his name Peter Johnfion —had
on an old Grey Coating Round Jacket, lined
with redWze; an old pair Leather Breeches,
and an old Felt Hat. Whoever takes up said
Bov,and brings him to Jacob Mersereau,o»
Staten-Ifland, (hall receive TWENTY DOL
LARS, with reasonable charges, paid by
JACOB MERSEREAU, Lieut. Col.
taw 6^
Dec. 49.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL, HYSON&SOUCHONG
Of the very firft quality,and latcft importatio*
from Canton, via New-Yoik, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Che*"nut and Market Strre'f.
N. li. A Jew Boxei of the above HYSON tor fate*
A large Cellar to Let,
Sufficiently capacious to Jlortfeveralhundred kartell*
Enquire of iht Pri k t i*v
%