A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NOPTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADtLPH!A
[No. 85 of Vol. IV.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, March l.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Muhlenberg
in the chair, on the 3d, 4th, sth, 6th, 7th,
and Btb resolutions, refpefting the official
conduct of the Secretary of the Treasury,
tor which fee Gazette of the 6th ir.lt.
MR. MERGER. None of the communi
cations from filte Secretary of the Tie a
fury, he said, had removed his fnfplcions re
lative to the tranfa£lionsefthat department;
Xvrhat had fallen ill the course of the diffcuffion
tiad not removed his doubts. He> confefied
liimfelf niore at a loss than ever to account
for the conciuft of that officer. To judge of
the propriety of his conduct, it was neceifary
ta conftder what his duties are, and inyefti
gate-whether a necessity exiflc-d tojuftify the
drawing complained of. Gentlemen In their
arguments had alluded to (bine obleryations
(hat had fallen from him 00 other occaficms
expressive ol'liis opinion—that tbere had been
•corruption ip that department. This opinion
he ftiil entertained—He fuggafej that fbtne
irregularities had, he belifcved, taken place as
to the money appropriated to the linking
fund. This might l>e tlie fact, a-nd his sus
picions were Sufficiently urgent to warrant
him in suggesting, that it might be possible.
At the close of ninety-two he slated there was
a balance of calh in the treasury of 2,331,182
dollar ; and the bonds due in the course of
the prelent year would produce a sum of a
bout 2,269,000 dollars—Yet a proposition
was made 111 the House, predicated on a total
want of money in the treaftiry, to borrow
800,000 dollars in addition to the 400,000 al
re'Jfly borrowed of the bank.
Here Mr. Boudinot interrupted the mem
ber, as beiiuT out of order.
Trie Chairman, conceiving Mr. Mercer's
remarks to We mtroduftory to, and connected
with t:ie observations he intended to make
on the rrfoiution, declared him iu order.
Mr. Mercer proceeded to shew, by sundry
ftarements and calculations, that there was
no ncceflity for this loan of 800,000 dollars.
The House, he laid, to discharge their duty,
Ihould be bow the supftey appropri
ated was applied, before they contented to re
peated additional appropriations. When calls
for information had been made by the House,
with a view to comply with this their indif-
P+nlible duty, the Secretary had thought it
Sufficient to balance money actually received,
by calculations of fuins that would probably
be wanted agreeably to appropriations—>—
Were dollars, he asked, to be balanced by ob
solete appropriations ? can things certain be
balanced by things Uncertain ?«—Aftual ex
penditure would alone balance actual receipt.
-Appropriations founded only on uncertain
calculations could not shew the money actu
ally laid out. He adverted to foine calcula
tions made to ascertain the probable expen
ses of the war department.
Here the member was again called to or
der, and was declared out of order by the
Chairman.
Mr. Mercer confined his obrervations more
immediately to the resolution before the
committee. It had been said that the inter
est paid was paid out of monies that were to
be drawn to this country, and were replaced
Here by funds from the domestic refourccs
originally appropriated for that object, and
that the dead letter of the law, if any part
of it, had alone been violated. He conteud
cd there had been an elfential violation.
The sums drawn for and appropriated to.
reduce the public debt, were not applied to
that purpose ; the domestic resources appro
priated to that obje&} never were exhaufied.
if this is the cafe, conclusions surely unfa
vorable to that officer must naturally follow.
He proceeded to make some remarks on
the question, whether the Secretary had act
ed under inftrudtions from the President. It
was disagreeable, he premised, to criminate
Ihe character of any officer. He bore a great
re pest for the President, for his virtues* ta
lents, and services, but however grating to
ins feelings it might be to find fault with any
part erf his conduct in this business, he was
unable to discharge his duty Under his present
lrnpreUions, unless he avowed that he con
ceived that officer had violated the law,
though he allowed, without intention, by not
ciiquiiing into the business, while tranfafting,
was his duty to do. He imift declare
»at he saw no proof that the Secretary Had
•«ed under the President's mftißttions ; on
tne contrary he saw the reverse, there was
•veil no preemptive proof of the atf.—'The
House bad called for information as to the
Extent of the authority delegated in the bufi
tvefs by the President to the Secretary. Ei
ther the Secretary has produced the proof of
this authority, or he has not complied with
he order of the House j—it does appear that
ne has gone beyond it in making the drafts
complained of. The President dire&ed that
t e proceeds of the loan be immediately ap
¥ 'ed to pay the French; yet a £reat portion
Saturday, March 16, 1793.
of that money was brought over here, It
was said, that he might have brought the.
whole here, it" he chose, and paid it to the
French here. This argument goes o» the
preemption, he observed, that the Prcfident
might do wrong without incurring blame.
But the Preftdent expressly dire&ed. it to be
paid immediately to France ; and tile Houfeii
had np right toprefume that he did direct the!/
money to be drawn here, when proof to the'
contrary appears. Upon the whole, he con-,
eluded that the law had been broken in letter
and substance, and that the Secretary had,<
acted without proper infti uftimis from the
President.
Mr. Liverfnore dWerved, that the charges
againfl the tieafury department were at firll
well calculated to beget feripus alarm. When
misapplications of the public money arefouud
ed in the public ear, atl feel interested, know
ing, that what *ffe<fts the public purse, mv)ft
In a degree atfeft the purses of each private
individual. In the prelent stage of tbe bufj
nefs, he was happy in being able to felicitate
himfelf and his fellow-citiaens, that even
should the whole of til? charges contained in
the reCblutions be proved, it would qot ap
pear that they had loft a farthing by the bu
siness Co loudly complained of. What is the
charge? That the Secretary has paid an in
terest that was juflly due ; why then, he pre
sumed, we should not have it again to pay.
If the Secretary has paid what was due, what
then U the complaint ? It was Purely not in
tended, that it Ihould not have been paid.
This was not the intention of Congress j for
they palfed an ast providing funds for its pay
ment ; the Secretary was then rignt to pay
it. But it is said, he paid it With the wrong
money; he law no harm in not paying it with
the very dollars appropriated, and approved
of the operation, which, saved drawing with
the one hand and remitting witn the other j
in this there was no crime committed, no
loss incurred. It appears, on the contrary,
that Something was gained by it: So Far then,
he was clear, no law had been violated, nor
was any rule of propriety departed from—
He then touched upon the Secretary's dis
puted right to draw. He contended, that he
had that right. The loans were obtained
under the joint authority of the two acts.
It vu fakl that more than two millions, tlie
amount appropriated for the finking fund,
were drawn over ; but, he infilled, he might
have drawn the other twelve millions, if it
had been for the public interest so to do.
The French wished to be paid here, and it be
ing no loss, rather a profit to comply with
their wifb, where was the harm io So doing i
If any public loss had been incurred owing to
these drafts, then blame would lie. He con
cluded, by expreffiug his hearty approbation
of the conduct of the officer who is crimina
ted by the refolu'ions, and declared it as his
firm intention to give them Iris negative.
Mr. Smith regretted that so important an
enquiry had been instituted at the very clo e
of the fefHbn, when the members were throng
ed with business of an indispensable nature,
and it was scarcely poilible for them to beftovr
that attention and deliberation, which the na
ture of the business called for. But, while he
expressed this regret, he aflured the commit
tee that it was mingled with mu£h fatisfafti
on in finding that the vague charges of mis
management, with which the public had long
been alarmed, were at length cast into a shape,
susceptible of investigation and decifiom
Previous to an examination of the fpeclfic
charge then under «onfideration, he clainicd
the indulgence of the committee, in ottering
a few preliminary remarks, which, though
they did not bear precisely iijoii the charge
itfelf, yet were intimately connected with
the fubjea-matter of the enquiry, and were
juftified by thegeueral remarks of gentlemen,
who had preceded liirn.
In recurring bsck to the origin and progress
of this examination, be said, it must appear
somewhat surprising, that that, which, in the
commencement of the felfion, was founded
forth as gross speculation, now turnec 1 out to
be nothing more than a mere substitution of
funds, and that that which was announced as
abominable corruption, was dwindled away
into a mere drawing of money from Europe
into this country, to be applied here accord
ing to law.
Whatever credit might be due to the mo*
tives which had originated this enquiry,every
member would concur in the sentiment, that
in a government constituted like that of the
United Stater., wfiich had nothing but the pub
lic confidence for its basis, premature alarms
and groundless iufoicions refpe&'ng the con
due* of public officers, were pregnant with
the most injurious con frequences.
This opinion was more peculiarly applica
ble to the important flation of the Secretary
of the Treafuvy. En tr lifted with the ma
nagement of a large revenue, and necefTarily
cloathed with some latitude of difipretion, it
was to be expe&ed that he would excite the
jealousy of the public vigilance ; but as long
as he kept in view the injunctions of law, and
the public good, his reputation was entitled
to that'fecurity which is due to every citizen.
329
inoficer, entrusted with the tare and dif
tribtirion of public monies, is generally looked
aewitb a Watchful eye; mankind are too
p« one to fufpe<ft the purity of his conduct J
flight insinuations are but too- often fuflicient
to injure him in the public eftiination. Such
being the natural propensity of things it
doubt ess behoved thole who wi'flied for tran
quility In the country, to withhold
not clearly warranted by proof—to suspend
animadversions which were not likely to ter
minate in convi&ion. A contrary proceed
ing had an inevitable tendency nnnecelfarily
to alarm the public mind-, to inlt 1 into it i\i(-
picions agkirtft the integrity of men in high
stations—to weaken their public confidence
in the government, and to enervate its opera
tions.
There wan something remarkable in the
nature of the present allegations against the
Secretary; taking them all into view, they
presented nothing which involved leli-inter
efted pecuniary considerations ; and in this,
they essentially differed from accusations a
gainst financiers in other countries, to whom
motives of interell were generally ascribed
tb*fource of their peculations. T<> s he
Secretary no such motive was imputed ; not
withstanding former inlinnations againlt his
integrity, the Jum of all the chargcs now a
moimted to nothing more than arrogance, or
an aflumptioii of power, or an exercile of un
authorised discretion.
With refpeft to discretion, Mr. Smith ob
served, that though in the present enquiry it
was not neceflary to fay much on that topic,
being firmly persuaded the Secretary had
ftri&ly pursued the injunctions of law, yet,
while on the fubjedf, he took occasion to in
sist that in all governments a latitude was
implied in executive officers, where that diP»
creation resulted from the nature of the office,
or was in purltiance of general authority de
legated by law. This principle was so obvi
ous that it required no illustration ; were it
contraditted, he tvould appeal to the conduct
of the Secretary of State, who, though direct
ed to report to the Houfb on the commercial
intercoutte with foreign nations, had, in the
exercise of a Warrantable discretion judicious
ly withheld his report : lie would appeal to
the report of the committee on the failure of
St. Cifiir's expedition, tv herein that failure
was in pare attributed to the commanding ge
neral's not being inverted with a discretion to
ast according to circumstances.
There was one more observation which he
thought proper to preijiife before he entered
into a difcufiion of the charges ; and that
was the diladvantageous lituation in which
the financier of this country was placed,when
compared with that of fimiiar officers in other
nations. TheminiHerof finance in Great-
Britain being always a member of the !egifla
ture and on a footing with other members,
was prepared to defend himfelf when attack
ed » no charge could be made his ad
ministration, which he had not an immediate
opportunity of and the charge and
the refutation went out to the A?orld toge
ther. The Secretary of the Treasury was on
the contrary not even permitted to come to
the and to vindicate himlelf* Through
the imperfedt medium of written reports he
was compelled, when called upon for informa
tf6n, to anfwerj as it were, by anticipation,
charges whif:h were not fpecific, without
JcHowfng pretifely agaiuft what part of his ad
ministration fubfeqnent fpecilic clmfges would
be Wought to bear.
If in his reports he Wastdtjcife* he was cen
sured for fuppreffirig information Jif he en
tered into a vindication of the motives which
influenced his qonduft, he Vas then criminat
ed for fluffing his reports With metaphyseal
reafb:rings. A gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. Findley) had said that the Secretary's
repots were so voluminous that he Was quite
bewildered by them, and that instead of their
throwing any light on the fubjett, he was
more in the dark than ever. It is truej the
repdtts were voluminous, but not more so
than the imputations on the Secretary's con
duct, and the ciders of the House juftifieck
He did not think that any member who had
attentively perused thein, could juftlV com
plain of want of information, or of being more
in the dark than before i he on the contrary
believed, that so much light had been thrown
on the whole of the Secretary's si cal operati
ons, that if any member Could not fee it piuit
be owing to the glare of light being too itrong
for Ins eyes,
Harirg made tbst obfbrvations,Mr. Smith
said he ffiould proceed to examine tlie fii ft
charge, which, after much reßeftion bellowed
upon it, afrpearcd to him to contain nothing
that was not autborifid by tl»e ltridt krtter oi
the law.
Mr. Smith, in his examination of the charge
inder conlideration, observed that it collid
ed* of two items : the firfl, ihe application
of a certain portion of the p'. incipalfum bor
rowed in Europe, to the payment of the in
terest falling due upon that principal, which
it was contended was nor authorifeJ by any
law} Hialecoud, The draw«g ;art of the
[Whole No. 40 5.]
fame monies into the United States* without
the inftradHoiis of the Pieiident.
Th«f drit item of i hi* luppofed violation of
law appeared ot so frivrffout a nature* that it
did oot merit much difmfiioo ; at any rate, it
was more an objeßi6ii ot form than ot f'ubttance.
It he comprehended well the purpott Ot the
charge, it was nothing more thin this—that the
fccietafy, having tnmiiei at his disposal in tu
rope applicable to the purchase of Hock in tin*
country, and having at the lame wine monies in
this coUntry applitable to the payment of the
mteteit abroad, had fubflituted the one tor the
Other; he had paid the tortrigri inteieft out of
the foreign funds, and he had purchased (lock
with the domeftie funds.— ThiJ was iht
heinous crime with which he waa charged*
and which was thought tufHcient to re
move him from office ! If the money in
V Europe might have beeu drawn to this
country by biHs, for the purchase of the
debt, it injght hpvb equally been
here, by ordering the application,of a lunj.
there (in Europe) fi?i a purpose which
would be represented by an equal fori*
here, to be applied to the purchase. The
substance, not the form, i»to decide whe
ther this mode of negociating the bufincts
Wast proper. Suppose bills had been or
dered to be drawn on the comroiflioners,
and remitted to them, on account of the
foreign interelt, would not this hav.e l)e<fi>
as regular as to draw them for sale? Did
the execution of the law require, that tl>e
secretary, having funds in Europe, with
which the foreign interest might be disc
charged, should neverthelefe remit monies
abroad for that put pose, and then, having
funds in this country, with which the pur
chases of the debt might be made, should
draw bills to bring the foreign funds here/
Was there any necessity foj this complex
operation, for the expence of remittance
the probable loss on the sale of bills, the
loss of interelt while the money was in
tranfitu, when the whole business could be
negociated by limple and (Economical
tnode puvfued ? So fat from this arrange
ment beir.g a ground of cenfufe, Mr.
Smith alerted that, had the fecretaty
pursued the other mode, he would have
been animadverted Upon with great seve
rity, for such an absurd and eXpeufivc
operation ; (re would have been accused us
ignorance of his dqty, and every loss in
cidental to the tranfa&ion would have
been charged to his account.
The fecoild divilion of the charge, btf
ing of more magnitude, requited a mofe
lengthy difcuffiom This instance of vio*
lation confided in a supposed deviation
from the inductions of the Prefitjent, of
a supposed aftiag without any inftru&iotf
whatever. It was, however, begging thi
queition j it was taking for granted that
which did not appear, and which ought
not to be presumed, And here Mr. Smith
observed, the gentlemen on the other fide
had entitely reversed one of the funda
mental maxims of criminal jurisprudence,
which declared that innocenct should be
presumed, and guilt proved ; wherta>
they had presumed guilt, and called uport
the accused to piove hi* innocence.
And what Was the slender bafts on
which the presumption was built ?
fay the gentlemen, the inftrudlions from
the Prtfident to the Becietary, which
have been laid before the houie, relate
only to the payment of the French dibt«
and convey no authority to draw any of
the foreign loan into this country for the
purchase of (lock, and hence they infer,
he had no authority for this latter pur
pose.
To comprehend the fallacy of the in
ference, it was only neceflary to recur to
the laws, and to the Prtfidei.t'scommilfi
on to thrf fecrttary to negociate the loanFj
Two aAsof Congress had palled j one
the 4th of Abgutl, the other the 12th
Augufl, 1790. The fitit authorised a
loan of 12 millions of dollars, applicable
to the payment of the French debt; the
other a loan of 2 millions, applicable to
the purchase of the domeftie debt. The
Piefident's commiflion to the secretary
embraced both acts and both objtdis, and
under that commiliion one loan was nego
ciated applicable to both objedts. True
it is thai the Prelident's firit inftru&ionawere confined to one object, namely, the
French debt ; but the inference is not,
that no other inftruftions were given, and
that the secretary acted without authori
ty, but the very reverse, that the Preli
dent either left the other object to the
general discretion of the secretary, who
was, ex officio, the proper agent, and his
representative ; or that he teferved it for
subsequent and occasional inftruftions.
This inference must be the true one :
firft, because a contraiy supposition would
impute to the President an illegal inten
tion, that of applying all the monies bor
ro«id under both acts to the object ot
one only ; secondly, because the coramif
fion extending to the borrowing 14 milli
on and embracing both objects, and the
inftruftions being confined to 12,000,000
and to only one object it followed that the
other either was left to discretionary ma
nagement, or to after regulation, for the
law ertjoined the execution of both.
If-prefumption then W3S to govern, the
more natural presumption was, that the
officer acted according to some gtneral
discretion rcpofed in him, or according
to inftruftions from time to time given.
These inftruftions may have been verbal,
as well as written. The written instruc
tions given in the firft instance were evi
dently confined, to the object of the firft
ast; the neccfiary concliifion was, .that
the application of.the monies borrowed
under the second ast was not meant to-be
included in the inftruftions, but Was left
to be tegulated by a general discretion,
01 by occasional direction s, verbalor other
wise. . '
To presume that the secretary acted
without the fanftion of the President,
was to suppose that the President was to
tally ignorant of the application of any
part of the loan to the purchase of the
debt.
But there is in the poflefiion of the
house abundant testimony of the Presi
dent's privity and co-operation.
I ft. In his speech to both houses, iir
December 1790, in announcing the loan,
he expressly refers to its being made by
virtue of both a&s, thereby implying
clearly that it had reference to the objetts
of both. He therein likewise refers the
house to a further communication from
the secretary, on that fubjeft.
2dly. The secretary, puifoant to that
reference informed the house, in the name
and by order of the President, that a part
of the loan, to wit. 150,000 florins, was
applied in payment to France ; another
part to wit 160,000 florins, to the Dutch
debt; and that it was deemed highly ad
vifeable to apply the residue to the pur
chase of the debt, if Congtefs wpuld re
move a doubt as to the terms on which
the loan had been negociated.
Congress did remove that doubt- by
their ast of March 179 1.
It followed then of course, that the re
sidue would be applied according to the
intimation given ; it was so understood
/on all hands, and the money being to be
inverted in this country, it likewise follow
ed of course, that it must be drawn here ;
a contrary conduct would have been cen
surable. And yet, notwithstanding these
fa&s, though the President had informed
the house asfarback asDec. lyyb.thatthc
loan had been a conjundt loan under the
authority of both adts, and consequently
for both objedts, though at the fame time
he had referred the house to the fecietary
for further information, in relation to that
loan and its applicability, though the se
cretary had in the name and by order of
the President informed the house by his
report in February 179 1 that only a part
of the money borrowed had been applied
to the French and Dutch debt, and that
the residue would be applied to the pur
chase of stock, as soon as Congress re
moved the doubt, though Congress pafled
a law expressly to remove that doubt, yet
it had been gravely and earnestly conten
ded, that the secretary was not authoris
ed to apply any part of that money to the
purchate of stock, that it was done with
out the fandiion of the President, & that
Congress, until the late call for informa
tion, were totally ignorant of the applica
tion of any part of it to that object.
.There was then the fulleft and mod fa
tisfadlory evidence of the privity and con
currence of the President, in confirmation
of the evidence resulting fiom official rela
tion. •
, Between the chief magistrate and his
immediate agents, either a general discre
tion or inftriiftions must be presumed, be
caufc it is presumable he will do his duty,
and punish where either a discretion has
not been allowed, or inltruftions hare not
been given, or where his inftruftiont
have'been contravened.
The argument on the other fide implies
in the chief magistrate either ignorance 6T
neglcft of duty ; on the one hand that he
was unacquainted with the tranfaftion,
or on the other, that being acquainted he
acquiesced in a violation of law without
removing the tianfgreffor. Could it be |
seriously Olid, would it not be abfucd to
suppose that an operation of such extent,
provided for by law, communicated to
both houses, notorious to all the ratr
chants of Philadelphia and New-York, as ;
that of drawing and felling the bills on
Europe, was unknown to the President?
Mu(l he not have been wsll acquainted
with these tranfadtions, and that Without
daily frequenting ihe coffee-houfe, as some
of his friends lately advised him ?
If the infttuftions or the intentions of
the President had been contravened,would
he not have vindicated his own authority
by removing the officer ?
But it had been objected that bills
were drawn previous to the fanftion of
the legislature by the confirmatory ast of
March 179 1.
Admit the fail, and there was nothing
reprehensible in it. It appears from the
fit ft general inltruftions to- Mr. Short, in
August 1790, that the Secretary 1 consider
ed ordinary charges, and 5 per cent, in
terest as within the meaning-os the law.;
Pursuing this confttuftion, and bfilief
ing it to be very important to the general
operations of the treasury, he drew for
the money, reserving himfelf as to the fi
nal application for an adt of the house ic
movirig the doubt.
The drawing for the money was a mere
intermediate step, which amounted neither
to a breach, nor to a fulfilment of the law,
which was wholly silent on that point.
The application was the criterion whe
ther the law had been fulfilled or nor. If
the legislature had not removed the doubt,
the money would have been remitted back
for the foreign object, and from the re
lative price of public and private bills
without loss, probably with advantage. It
was prudent in the mean time to place it
where it was likely to be this
was done. ) '
It was indeed remarkable that all the
points now railed as objections were made
known in the report before alluded to of
February 1791, as things done or intend
ed ; no objection was then made or dreimt
It had been asked, why have the, in.
ftruftiuns not been produced, if any ex
ift«d ?
The call had been ooly for copies of au
thorities ; the inftru&ions may have been
verbal. The Secretaiy in his report on
loans informed the house, " that besides
the firft geneial inftruftions, the trust re
posed in him was to be regulated by jfub
fequentand occasional diredtions." A mo
tive very honorable to him might be af
figtied for his not bringing forward the
Prelident's inftrudlions as a cover. Rely
ing that the province of the house was to
examine into the effe&s of measures, their
conformity to law and the public good,
ami that the necessary executive inftrtifti
ons were to be presumed, the Secretary
had evidently chosen to implicate the Pre
sident as little as pofllble. ;
The order requested the President to
lay before the house copies of the autho
rities dire&ing the application of the mo
nies borrowed ; it was evident that the
Prelident construed this order into a call
not for the inftrudtions from him to the
Secretary, but for the inftru&ions from
the Secretary to his agents, because in the
report made in pursuance of that order,
the Secretary presents, by order of the
President, his own letters, to Messrs. Short,
Willink and Van Staphorft, as the au
thorities to apply the proceeds of the
loans. It followed therefore, that the pa
per relied on was not intended to be given
as the only inftrudtion refpefting the ap
plication of the loan ; the interference
from it was coofequently erroneous.' The
'President could never conceive that the
house meant to call for his private induc
tions from time to time imparted to his
immediate agent under the words "of the
resolution : that link must have been pre
furned ; he therefore diredted a transmissi
on of the authorities ffom the Secretary
to his agents.
But what has the want or breach of in
ftruftions to do with the breach of the
law ? Suppose no inftiuclions given, or
330
the Inftru&tons tiot putfued, *nd yet sup
pose the law to have been completely
purlued, could it be said there was any
breach of law ? or suppose inftru&ions
given and ftriftly pursued, ami the law
to have been depaited from, would the
adherence to inttru&ions have- jullihed
that departure ?
Either what was done was nugatory, or
it would have been agreeable to law ; to
affirm the contrary, would be to confound
two things perfedtly diftinft, inilru&ions,
and laws.
The resolution imports that the secre
tary has violated the law of the 4th of
A>ugo(t 1790, by not pilrfuitig the in
ftruftions of the President ; that law is
silent as to inftruftions ; it does not re
quire that the President shall give instruc
tions to the secretary, nor doe's it require
that the secretary (hall be alone guided by
the inftru&ions of the President ; it only
dire&s the President to cause a certain
sum to be borrowed, and leaves it to him
to cause a proper application to be made
of the proceeds.
The drawing money into this country,
with or without authority, to apply it to
the purchase of the debt cannot be deem
ed a violation of the law of the 4th Au
gust, for it was not loaned under the au
thority of that acl alone, but under the
joint authority of the two a&s; if any
thing is meant by the resolution, it oughc
to mention both the acts.
To go furthei, Mr. Smith infilled that
the Secretary had, virtute officii, a legal
authority to apply the monies, when bor
rowed, according to law, without inflec
tions.
The loans might have been made in
the United States as well as abroad ; sup
pose them obtained of the bank of Boston,
would it have been criminal for the Se
cretary, without inftru&ions, to have
drawn the money to the places where it
would be most advantageously invested ?
Suppose the loan obtained of the bank of
the United States, would it have been
deemed irregular to have, without in
ftru&ions, issued a wartant to place it
in the treasury ? Why was it more irregu
lar or more criminal to draw it from
abroad as a preliminary step ?
The moment the foreign loans were ne
gociated, and the monies paid into the
hands of the Secretary's agents abroad,
from that moment they became as much
utjder his controul and fupenntendance,
fubjeft to legal appropriation, as any mo
nies in the tteafury.
'Twas not necessary to establish this po
sition, that the fubjeft of foreign loans
should have been specially mentioned in
the co'nftitution of the treasury depart
ment..
Many things resulted collaterally from
the general ftru&ure of an institution
which were not expressed in it.
He did not however intend, that the
doctrine here advanced, (hould touch the
question astowhat official propriety might
have required between the chief magif
trate-and(the Secretary. 'Twas the point
of legality only, which he meant to exa
mine.
In all executive functions, relating to
the finances, the Secretary must be consi
dered as the agent of the President, and
the legislature must- take it for granted,
where the contrary is not manifeft, that
the relation has been properly attended
to ; justice to both characters di&ated the
presumption. •
It clearly resulted from these remarks ;
ift, that there was no ground to infer ei
ther want of inftrudtion or breach of in
ftruftion, but diteftly the reverse.
2dty. It as clearly resulted that if there
was, it would not follow that therp had
been a violation of law.
Having gone through this resolution,
Mr. Smith observed, that if there was as
little of criminality in the subsequent char
ges as in that which he had just difcufied,
and from an attentive examination he fiti
cerely believed it, he was fatisfied that
notwithllanding all the severe animadver
sions within, and all the virulent calumny
without the walls of Congress, the cqndnft
of the Secretary would come forth chaste
and unblemished, itiftead of any thing be
ing dete&ed which would disgrace Pan
demonium, nothing could be chargeable
to him, which wouid fully the purest an
gel in heaven. Whatever difference of o
pinion might exist as to the wisdom and
benefit of his meafutes, he was confident
in faying that in every thing the Secreta
ry had done, he had been guided by prin
ciples honorable and patriotic, and he
frirfted that a very preat majority of the
committee would by their votes evioce the
fame fentiinent.
The sword of justice, it wa, Uid, ought
at times to be taken from tbe scabbard to
keep great public fun&ionaries within the
pale of the law, but it should be remem
bered that if justice had its sword to nti
ni(h the guilty, it had liltewlfe its fticld
to protest the innocent. If the Secretary
had committed a wanton violation of law
let the sword be draw» forth forfcispimiQ,.
ment ; but if he had purfurd the
of an enlightened patrtotifin, the com
mittee were called upon to raise the fTtic'd
for the defence of a faithful officer. ' V
Mr. Hillhoufe argued, that the inter,
eft paid was not paid out of the 2,000,000
loan; and that the drafts were madca<*rec
ably to the dire&ions of the President
He (hewed this by the documents which
had been already referred 10.
He put in a cleat point of visw the
propriety of avoiding the expence and
ri(k of drafts and correspondent remittan
ces ; and concluded by giviug his appro
bation to the condud of the Secretary in
the tranfa&ions complained of, and by
exprefiing it as his firm belief—that a ma
jority of the committee, from the evi
dence before them, would undoubtedly
be of opinion—that the charges brought
forward are unfounded.
Mr. Sedgwick rose to correct a mltlake
of Mr. Mercer's. That gentleman had
aflerted, that the Secretary had drawn on
Europe, before the loan obtained bythe
commifiion*rs under the old government
was ratified. This was not the cafe, he
said ; the loan had been ratified in purfu.
ance of the provisions of the ast author
ing it. The President, in his speech on
the Bth of .Dec. 1790, fays, " that agree
ably to the powers vested in him at the lad
feflion, the loans in Holland had been
completed."
By existing acts of the legifiature, and
from express communications from the St.
cretary of theTreafury, it appears, that
all the monies borrowed were deemed as
borrowed under the joint authority of
both adts, and not to be solely appropria
ted for the payment of the foreign debt,
Mr. Mercer explained, that he had said
that the Secretary had drawn from the
loan obtained under the authority of the
old government, before said loan was le
galized by law. If the legiftattifi had
a right to legalize it, they had the right
to reject it.
[7"o le continued.]
LONDON, December 20.
In times like the present, when the principle!
of the French Revolution are so much recom
mended by some, for our imitation, everything
is interesting which tends to confirm or contra
dict the degree of general happiness which thofc
nations received who have adopted the opinions
of this new philosophy. There is so much good
sense in the following, and it is so applicable to
the present times in this country, that we have
thought proper to give the article a very conspi
cuous place.
" WE have already remarked, that the level
ing principles of the French Revolution were not
(o fuccefsfuj in Germany, as-in some other coun
tries. . . *, ,
« The firft instance of this appears in the ad
dress from the inhabitants of Mayencc, 10 which
they declare a desire of adhering to their ancient
conrtitution, modified however with fomc ( trm'ng
alteration, whicb they had formerly petitioned
from their former sovereign. Frankfort has ma
nifefted a fnnilar difpofnion, in a modeempha
tically pointed, and not very palatable 10 the
French Gene? al.
" When General Cuftine laid this town under
contribution, it is well known that he ordere
the sum of two millions of florins to be levied
upon the wealthy inhabitants polTeffed o rnore
than thirty thousand florins* in personal eltate.
The inferior class of people, persuaded that in
dustry, which forms the great resource ot tn§
poor, is entirely annihilated from the moment
that the rich are deprived of the 0 U P"
porting them, have frankly expressed their len
timents to General Cuftine in the follow.ngad
drefs, in which the good sense of the Gernun#i
peculiarly predominant, and cxptefled in a
extremely pointed.
" You have declared, t'ha y
actuated By the best intention* towards the low
er class of people. Permit us in our turn,
equal freedom to exprefj our sentiments.
" You pretend to protec* us against ops► -
fions of which, God be praised, «« havc 4
knowledge, and ft rll less experience. ™
give us Liberty which we already er '.l ov j., i
.expences of the gnvernment are equ* Y
between the magistrates and ourre ve ,
have the wealthy formed a diftinft cW
the poor; their profpenty exten Ito a,
their flouriftring commerce rende.
happy. Every per(on able and wi ins
bour, is certain of finding fubfiflence,
quence of which we find so many Dr [[
property. Poor indeed will *
countries; but so numerous are th |.
merits provided, by the munificence o 1 . r oc |,
thy ancestors, from which our poor [f .
relief, that our small (late excends, A o urift>-
fpefls, countries much larger an m
ing.
* Between tzuoani three fhouf"rii pom*'.«' tYie private good which the poor
eceive from the'wea'ltliy, is great, and demands
lUr gratitude. Wc consider alfoihe taxes which
ve pay to be very inconsiderable, and of theie
w e hear no complaint. In a word, Geneial,
„e are all contented and happy ; our univerlil
,of D eriiy IS too clearly connected with our
Confutation, too firmly conucfted with the pro!-
purity of our wealthy fellow citizens, to prevent
us Irom being interested in their behalf: and
therefore when i'uch heavy luins are exited
f,om the rich, the middling and lower claflcs of
people are also punilhcd, from the injury which
commerce and manufafturcs mud thereby ne
ceffanly sustain. The more, therefore, is taken
from the rich, the less will be our gain ; and at
jengili we fliall be cutiiely ruined.
'• Since then, General, you fluie yourfclf the
defender of Liberty, pioieftor of the public
Good, you will ast againif your own principles
if you do not defttt from levying thetc contribu,
in which we ought to participate wiih the
nchi To conclude, we cannot better manifeft
our zeal for the French Republic, than by the
fincereft wish that all may enjoy the fame hap
piness under its conftituuon as wc enjoy under
ours. Weexpeft, therefore, of you, that you
will permit us to enjoy «Br conftituiion unmo
ved. tl Signed by 700 Ms Mis."
NORFOLK, March 2. '*?:>&
Intelligence ha? lately been received from
London, that' Great-Britain has acceded to
. the combination, formed to arrest: the pi ogress
of the Jacobin career. The principal mo
tives dated in the British manilefto, art—
asa fj rm determination on the part of the
contracting p'owers to support the European
• nations iu the enjoyment of that right, which
oupht to be common to all; an entire and un
qualified liberty of maintaining whatever po
litical eftablilfuncnts may think most con
ducive to their own liapj'inefs and security—
Thai it is time enough tor one nation to aflift
toother, when fueh alfiftance shall have been
required by a majority, at leatt, offhe nation
which may become difTatHfied with its exid
i,,rr government. That to succour the dif
trefled and support other nations, in'a gene
rous determination to be free, well becomes
the dignity and liberty of ji great and enlight
ened people: But it is no less unjuftifiable
than it is difrefpeftful, for any people to per
nii; ttieipfelves to be fjifcinated into a wanton
and violent intrusion upon the political ar
rangements of others—however fooeign they
may be thought from the favorite standard or
imaginary excellence of their own. That the
impulse of felf-prefervation, no less than the
neceifary independence of other nations, de
mands the immediate and effective interfer
ence of the Biitifh arms. Nor can the fran
tic excetTes of a power, at once so licentious
and deftrnftive, any longEr be permitted to
outrage the voluntary efta'jlifhments of neigh
bouring nations; or by iin insulting imposi
tion of pretended benefit') proceed in its de
signs of fuccelGve and unbounded augmenta
tions. That while the operations of that
power were directed to fuiih objects, as might
be fairTy esteemed condacTve to th« support
and defence of such' arrangements as might
have proceeded from the ffee expression of the
national will, it would not have been confid
ent with the dignity or inclination of Great-
Britain to b*Ve interfered. Bat however un-
equivocally the traces may appear among
some of the neigh(»ouring nations, of & decided
attachment to the late combination against
France, it canoot be reasonably expected, on
the part as that powiri that the effedts even
of its just refentmerit can tie permitted to
Extend to the entire- fubverfioti of the politi
cal independence of those nations. The
rights and relative duties of all nations, fuHi
eiently inculcate the propriety of remaining
iattsficid with a deprivation of the power of
an en?mv to in]ure or invade the public secu
rity. The principles of felf-prefervation,
Jfmbined with those of a just and magnani
us policy, have wifely forbidden national
boftilitvbs to exceed those bounds. With these
Views, the British nation feels itfelf conftrain
to announce to the existing powers of
to all Europe, its firm determi.
ihation M'preventi 'by every mean in its pow
»r, any acceflion of territory whatever, to the
' kWwn and established boundaries of France,
as they may have been designated by the trea
■tiiesmade with other nations; nor can it be
expected that the operations of the British
amis should cease, until France shall have
cvinced a disposition, on her part, to renounce
tye ascendancy which iHe may have acquired,
by violence, over those nations or cities,
which may have been fubjefted by her power."
RICHMOND, March 8,
Ixtraft of a letter Jrom a member of Congress.
" The politics here are to the last degree
difgulting—every'principle of representative
government is violated ; in'ftead of feeling
alike and aftipgfor the benefit of the bulk of
citizens, Congress are influenced by a monled
andfycculating inteieft, which not only bears
hard upon the laboring clafTes of the whole
■community, but affli&s those of the fonthern
( Hat?? with exclusive crqelty ; as their primum
mebiU of reltdes chiefly ,in the
northern dates, the evil carwever be remov
ed, unlefi all electing bodies, will with the
most suspicious caution, avoid every man,
who shall even smell of certificates, stock, or
paper of any kind.
" I am in a state of repentance for having
cpme to a place, exhibiting every moment to
my view the fallacy of apparent patviotifin.
The rapacity of many who onghi to be difw
terefted, and the poor chance the puYilic
ft and, again ft the machinations of a tew ir.-f
---viduals—But if the agricultural people would
attend to their interest and elcct proper tncji,
tliefe dreadful evils would loon be : tmedied "
BOSTON, March 6.
It is very lingular, that the founders of the
new Confutation of France, have fucccflively
loft reputation, liberty and life. Pftuny ln-
might be adduced in 'proof—we ftiall
briefly state, that the once popular La Fay
ette, has been compelled to flv his country,
by the ingratitude of his fellow-citizeits, and
now languishes in captivity—and that the
remains of the once illustrious Mfrabeau
have been scattered to the winds of Heaven ;
his statues have been demoliftied, and his me
mory proscribed.
A wit on reading the direction of the Pre
sident of the French Convention, to Louis, to be
fcated, observed, that the Patriots were re
laxing in their enmity to the King, fbr that
like the patriotic fans culottes he was admitted
to the honor ef the fitting.
The Maaufa&ories in Lynn and Reading,;
(Maflachufetts) of Women's Shores, arc of nVuch'
greater importance and advantage to this ftaie,
than has heretofore been conceived of. There
are employed in the bufmefs in the two towns,
(including the women who bind the (hoesj 1500
people ; they make and export, annually, to dif
ferent parts of this Continent, 450,060 pair of
shoes; which makes a saving 10 the United
States lrom the foreign importaion of this arti
cle, at 4j6 a pair, 337.500 dollars ; and they can
afford their lhoes cheaper than can be imported.
Fur the GAZETTE, of the UNITED STATES.
FEDERAL SENATOR.
In the protcfi if the minority on the vote ofthi Senate
Jor a Senator in Cor.grefs by * joint vote
of the two Houses, it is injinuated that an advan
tage ic.is taken of the casual abjence oj two, mem
berSy who were in Javor oj a concurit.nl vote.
TO strike a stroke in politics, fuMime,
With care improve the lucky nick ot timd;
Some happy moment—never 10 be loft,
May call the centincls from off their poll—
Seize th* occyfion—pafs the resolution,
The major Vole fulfils the conftituiion.l j
For thus the prompter fpcaks behind
u The end will always fan&ify the meajiu"
Let ihem protefi, and pout, and scowl, and grin,
'Tis our's to laugh—as those who're sure to wui,
We'll fix them by the choice of G—t-— n.
Look thio' the commonwealth, where can ypu
find, *
Bred on the foil, so good, so great a mind ?
Your nun of wealth dre all the slaves of pow'r ;
Your home born patriots—mushrooms of an hour!
From foregn climes true virtue we import—
Hence D—— ihines a favoiite at Court.
While Pennsylvania's genius mourns its lot,
Her sons defpis'd, negleftcd, and forgot !
Fiom the American Daily Advertiser
MR. DUNLAP,
LISTENING the other day in Congress, with
many other citizens, 10 the numerous proofs
of mal-adminidralton and corruption that were
to have been adduced againd the Secretary of the
Treasury, I was pleated when Mr. Mercer rose—
because, it was presumed that he, who .bad uni
formly spoken of the Treasury Department as a
renovated Psndemonium, would now-givfcus
the proof pafiMvc. The pioof of cortuptiofl"
was in his pocket ; he drew it forth, prefertted
it to public view,- and laid it on tlie'table for
private infpeflion and public information. It
was a paper figtied by' Mr. Benjamin. Hawkins,
in the letters and characters following, viz.—
" The observations I made in the Senate, on the
motion to order the commiffionersof the finking
fund to lav their proceedings before the Senate,
were, that I undeiflood the fund in its original
creation, to be for tfie purpose of railing the
price of funds :o their true valueto call it a
finking fund, was a misnomer. That a gentle
man, during ihe'laft session of Congress, who is
not now in the United States, informed me in
conversation, that he and some others had sent
in proposals at 17s. and a fraftien, and at 18s.
and a small fraflion ; that the whole of the low
ell was not taken, and that fotne of the highest
was. That I dated this information by way Of
quere, to the Frefident of the Senate, who could
put me right, if the information 1 had dated
was otherwise. That the Prefidctlt answered,
that he never knew that they purchased other
than at the lowed market price. B. H.
27th Feb. 1793. '
" N. B. The gentleman alluded to abovej' wa£
J»lr. Buchanan." v
Such is the proof of vitality and corruption, ■
words of dreadful import, that have been ring,
ing in our ears lor Several months. Fronp all
which it appears, that a ceitain Mr. Ruchinan,
expressed an opinion to Mr. Hawkins, that Mr
Hamilton, at a certain time, had given 18s. for
dock, when it was offered him (or 17s. And
that Mr. Hawkins, believing that Mr. Buchanan
might have been miftaken,confulted Mr. Adams,
one of the cotnmjflioners. Mr. Adams did not
believe that any such purchase ever {lad been
' made. By a plain man like myfelf, who docs
not look for blois nor wi(h to find them, this
' whole dory would be set down as a piece of un
impoitant talk—tlte baseless fabric of a vision ;
but to a politician, or an opposition man, it i«
the fubdantial proof of corruption : not a proof
of folly; for no man is such a fool as to give
18s. for an ariiclc, that i» offered at 17. But he
may be so wicked as to give 18, provided the
party had previously dipulated to make him a
prcfent of h»lf the difference. In this cafe, there
would be corruption ; and though the Secretary
of the Treasury Is not the buyer of dock, for it
is bought by the Treasurer, and though he never:
fees the filler, and knows ndthing (bout the mp*
who fell in public market at (he coffee-houfe,
we, a>good politicians.and quick-fightcd watcH
roen. are to suppose, that every unfavourable al
> legation is true, and that'coiruption, whether
po'fliblc or impoflible, is the spring of all mea
sures that we do not approve.
For myfelf, I have condantly supposed, that
ir. a free i.egiflature, there will be opposition to
the Executive—l believe that opposition is ufe
ful and necessary—but I fincerelv wish, that our
watchmcn woLld not cry wolf! wolf! until
thev.fee an animal that had claw;, teeth, or some
other tniik or feature of a wolf!
ONE OF THE PEOPLE-
331
Philadelphia, March 16
A letter from the southward, to a gentleman
in this city, contains the following intelli
gence—
1 hat a British Frigate had arrived at Do
miniro 18th Feb.exprefs, in 32 days from En
gland—.and bro't information,that Lord Hood
feg with a fleet 0f32 fail of the line,hav
ing on board fevera! regiments, and that the
D-uke of Clarence had acommand in this fleet :
The letter further states, that General Mat-
had arrived in the above Frigate,
veftsd with the supreme command of the forc
es in the Islands—that the army was to be
ted by adding ten men to each com-.
General was proceeding through
the I Hands, putting them in a posture of de
fence, and that every appearance indicated
immediate - war.-—The frigate brought a re
port that a French fleet of 33 fail of the line
with a large body of troops, had failed for
the Weft-Indies.
The ship Louisa, Capt. Birk.hrad, arrived here
last Tuesday, lelt the Texd on the i6ih of Janu
arv, but brings nothing new, except the failing
of 6 or 7 Duich men of war and guntboals,
it was said, for the Scheldt.
The latest accounts from H.fpaniola inform
u», that the troubles in that island ha»e not fub
lided —in a late engagement, 400 of the revolted
negroes were killed. Produce is high—Flour
from 6to dollars only.
A letter from Port-au-Prince, dated Feb. 13,
contains a melancholv detail of the tranfafttons
in that part of the I (land. The Negroes, it ap
pears, had decoyed a convoy of the army of the
Whites into an arpbufcade, and cut 50 of them
to pi<ces—this exasperated the (oldiers to the
higheil degree ; the, Negro army was afterwards
attacked, and 6®o of them killed on the spot—
without theiof* of a soldier on the part of the
romenfc deflruftion has been re
cently made by the Insurgents, millions of pro-
reduced to ashes.
; The Knoxville Gazette fays, that depreda
tions, tiorfe-ftealing and murders continue to
t* committed by the Indians in the South-
VVeftern Territory—Tlie Shawanefe are re
presented as being peculiarly inveterate.
Advices from Martinico and Guadaloupe
fay, that the Governors of both thole islands
Jiave fled, and taken with them afeventy-four
gun Ihip, a frigate of farty guns, a fioop of
war of twenty guns, and several tenders. It
is not known to what quarter they are gone.
" Wednesday evening, fire broke out in a
building near Mulberry-Street, between Jth
and 6th Streets.—By the spirited exertions
■■of thecitizons it was extinguiflied, in about
half an hour, without much damage.
The loaf bread bakers in this city Having
petitioned the legislature against the law re
gulating their particular bufinefs—*a commit
tee of the House to whom the fubjedl was re
!ferred, hai reported in favor of their applica-
The Hon. William Barry Grove is re-eleft
2«d a member of the House Representatives of
the United States, by a unanimous vote of
the electors of the diftrift of Fayetteville,
North-Carolina.
Col. Jamfis Gillafpie is elected for the dif
trift of Wilmington and Sampson county, in
the fame state.
The legislature of the state of New-York
adjourned on Tuesday last, to meet on the
firft Tuesday in January next at Albany.
While the people of the United States in
the cities and towns on the fea-ftiore are un
ceasingly reprobating the war on our fron
tiers, and urging the policy and humanity of
making peace with the Indians—let us hear
what the Kentnckians fay, who are in the so.
cus of danger—" Can our public servants be
capable of holding any treaty with
whose hands are still reeking with the blood
of their fellow-citizens, and of their wives
and children—nay, reeking with the blood of
. valuable msn sent to them as mefiengers of
.'peace-rrthofe murders still unattoned for ?"
Kentucky Gazette.
' ' Suri 'tis vo easy tzjk topleaje ui all.
• The General Advertizer df Monday last,
speaking of Louis XVI. fays, that " appre
hensions were entertained for his life from the
well known ferocioiifnefs of the Paris Mob"
The National Gazette of Wednesday fol
lowing informs its readers, that " these ap
prehenlions were entertained from the villi
kneuin tvti-royul propensity oj the Pa\ifians." —
On which a correspondent remarks, that grant
ing the two modes of expression to be the con
vert of each other, they serve to confound
the moi of Paris with the people of Paris—or
which is the fame, they serve to lhew that
there is 110 such body exists as the mob of Pa
ris ;or that the people are a mob—but as ex
cedes of every kind are the natural effects of
mobs; and every good citizen and conliftent
republican, involuntarily condemns such ex
cesses—it appears to be neceflary, in order to
juftify what has been, or may be done, to fay
that the people, not the mob, are the actors ill
the Drama.
The title of EJtjuire is anli-'cpubhcan, nay,
what is certainly much vrorfe, it is anti-chrijli
an, for the Nation's Gazette lays, " it favors
of that wordly vanity so much reprobated by
the Apoltle." ! J !
Statement of the number and.quality ai Vtffelj
in the port of Savannah, Feb. 13.
59 s l uare "SR" 1 . ? Brililh.
21 Sloops and fenooners, >
.7 Squarfc rigg.d, {American.
31 Sloops and schooners, \
9 Square rigged j Freuch.
1 Sloop and 1 ichoouer, }
t Spanish.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Tiit people have made a government;. Jfe
who would fuppwt the government of the
people, may be supposed to he the friend of
their power and their rights. Such a man
will deflre to fee the people's government i'o
liable as to p-ote& the citizens, and Co re
fpe&able in the eyes of other nations, as to
induce them to follow our example, and there
by to extend republican liberty over the world.
Yet our scribblers make it appear tiiat liberty
is one thing and government another. To
support government and to recommend a re
gard to the laws, is a proof of ariftorracy.
Liberty enjoyed under the laws will not fu»t
these men—The laws give to every man his
own—but he who has nothing is no gainer by
this security. No, fay «ur mobbocrats let us
throw all iato an heap and raffle for it.
The people of the United States, have
choftn to celebrare the birth day of the man,
whom 44 they delight ts honor,** and this they
have done spontaneously, of their own meer
motion, free will and accord, and in a very
extraordinary, and unusually extensive man
ner—but notwithstanding all this a corres
pondent observes, that the National Gazette
modestly aflerts, " that Birth-Day celebra
tions, however meritorious the character, are
not suited to the genius of our country." The
faicfGazette also declares, " that a number
oCgrave and worthy foreigners perfe&ly concur
with the letter-writer of that Gazette—and
fay, a that however fond they might have
been of celebrations of this nature at home,
they consider them as rather bordering on the
absurd in this count y ; this is not the only
specimen by thousands which might be pro
duced, of an rtifult offered to the whole body
of the free citizens of the United States,, by
those who zvi/k to legVflate for the people—but
it appears rather outre to make use of a fo
reigner as the organ of abuse.
The fpirtt of innovation which hat'rdoue
such great things in some part's' of Etfrope,
ha l ; been imported into the United States;
whether it is necefTary in the pnefent circum
stances of our country, time will unfold ; it
is however to- be observed, that the impor
ters are chiefly exotic adventurers, many of
whom it may be justly supposed are as inimi
cal to the fubjiavtiah of office as they are to
the titles by which they are defigna ted—this
remark may be part'cularly applied to the
proposition for annihilating the Title of Efipire
—which Purely is not more odious in the view
of some innovators than the office of Justice of
the Peace. If the people of the United State :
will submit to it, they may have a number of
politicians and legislators who would fooir*
put a new face on their affairs.
It is plain the people are federal, be can's
of late the enemies of government are obli
ligcd to pvetend federalism in order the more
securely to carry on their schemes. Yet they
have not spared the government or its offi
cers. * These federalists, as they call theni
felves, speak of the constitution as a thing
full of dangerous principles, and the r e too
let Joofe without checks or guards. This bad
fyitem they tell us is in the hands of Specula
tors and knaves—of men who are at work
night and day to bring about a monarchy.
Yet they are federal ids—as Anthony lays in
Shakespeare's play of Julius Caesar—they are
honorable men—they would not ftrr up mens*
minds to mutiny and civil war—but they
tear open every wound of the public mind, and
put a tongue in it. Yet they are federal—all
honorable men—We have their own word for
it.
IMPROMPTU.
SOME fay the Infidel Voltaire,
Dv'd in great horror and despair ;
While others—(ticklers for his glory,
Aver, some liar forg'd the (lory—
If truth and falfhood are the fame,
Words cannot fully Voltaire's fame;
Let those who're puzzled in the cafe,
Say " Judas went to his own place.*'
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Mary, Cally, Newburyport
Louisa, Birkhead,
SufTex, Atkins,
Molly, Edgar,
Snow Eliza, Blunt,
Brig Betsey, Sumner,
Alfred, Shehan,
Mann,
Polly, Chernock,
Aurora, O'Briati,
Schr. Richmond, Samplon,
Betsey, Bartler,
Sloop Polly, Sinitfi,
Sally, Hefs,
Merrimack, Lowell,
Fanny, Stanton,
PRICE OF STOCKS
6 per Cents,
4 per Cents, loyio
Deferred, \ij6
Full (hares Bank U. S. 14 per cent. prem
in the Jnfurance Company 145
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
" A Citizen" it received—itJhall appear
as soon as pojlible.—The " Impiachmlni," in
our next. 7he length oj the Debates, mujl apologize
Jor the present jujpevjion of fevtral interfiling ejjti)S.
COR R ECTION
•4,* The latter part of the fiift sentence in
M«. Barnwili'i speech, puhlifhcd in our
last, should reati thus—•• This fukjeft has changed
its hue from the foul Jitn of peculation, to the milder
colouring of an illegal exercije oj discretion and a
want oj politer ej\ 11 the Secretary oj the Treasury."
Amiterdam
Teneriffe
Char left on.
Tobago
Port-au-Prince.
do.
St. Euftatia
Capc-Francoi*
Lisbon
Norfolk
N.Carol ma
Savannah
C. Francois
Ncwburypor*
Antigua
'?/«BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
R K toL V ID,
THAT any person residing ijs Europe, who
(hall authorize the President, Directors and
Company of the Bank of the United States, to
receive annuities, or Interest arising hom the
public debt of the United States of America,
(hall from time to time have authority to draw
on the (aid President, Directors and Company,
lo4iie amount of the monies by them received,
which drafts (ball be paid without deduction
«nd free of expeoce—Or,
The Prcfident, Dire&ora and Company, if re
queued, will remit the monies by them received
to any part of Europe, free of ex pence and with
out dedu&ion, in Bills of Exchange at their cur
rent value, and at t he ri(k of the pci son to whom
the fame ihall be remitted.
By the Prrfident ind Di'fflwii
3 w [OHN KEAN, Cafliicr.
PROPOSALS
For re-printing a new, entertaining and
inftruftive Work, intitled,
I THE
Errors of Education.
BY MRS ELIZA PARSONS.
TnflabUity of mind impedes our rtad to perfection;
and youth, if not animated by exam?l£,/o
illujlrate the precept f oj virtue, will
ever Jail into ERROR.
The European edition of thiii work, printed
la ft year, fells at 12s. the two volumes, (andfew
copies, tj any, so that "price ) —This jirjl
American edition, which (hall be well executed,
on an entire new type and fine paper, will be
delivered to fubferibers in one volume of about
420 pages i2mo. neatly bound, at a French Crown
each, to be paid on receiving the book, which
will be put to press as loon as a fufficient num
ber of fubferiptions are obtained to defray the
cxpenfe of the undertaking.
ffcj* Subfiriptions will be received at the Bookflores
of Messrs. T. hobfon, W. Young, 7- Crukfkank, and
B. Johnson, and at Mr. Henry KardmeVer'S) A T o. 24,
North 7hirdflreety Philadelphia; by Mejf. Ft. Hodge,
S. Campbell, and T. Allen, Bookjellers, New-York ;
by Mejfrs. Day & Co. Printers, Trenton ;
Subscriber, r* Burlington ; dm/ by others in whose
hands fubfcriplion papers are lodged.
Feb. 18, 1793. ISAAC NEALE.
JUST MJBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Book feller, at the Stone- Houfcy in Second flreet 9
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VII, OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
AND MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new
BT WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
are digested into the Form of Diftinft,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
COMPR EHENDINO
THE History, Theory, and Practice, of each,
according to the Latest Discoveries and im
provements : and full Explanations given of the
various detached parts of Knowledge, whether
relating to Natural anal Artificial Obje&s, or to
Matters Eccltfiaftical, Civil, Military, Commer
cial, See. Including Elucidations of the most im
portant "Topics relative to Religion,Morals.Man
ners, and the Oeconomy of Life : together with
a Description of all the Countries, Cities, prin
cipal Mountains, Seas, Rivers, &c. throughout
the World ; a General Hiftoty, Ancient and
Modern, of the different Empires, Kingdoms
and States : and an account of the Lives of the
most Eminent Persons in every Nation, from the
earliest ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the best author*, in
several Languages ; the most approved Dictiona
ries, as well of General Science as of particular
branches ; the Tranfaftions, Journals, and Me
moirs of the learned societies, both at home and
abroad—the MS. le&ures of eminent profeflors
on different Sciences : and a variety of'original
Materials, furnifhed by an extensive Correspon
dence.
The Seventh Volume contains a description
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Expe
rimental Philosophy, Syftero of Farriery, Feudal
fyftctn, Fire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Foflxls, history of France, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding. Glass,
&c. with a variety of articles in natural history,
biography and miscellanies. 11 lull rated with
Thirty Eight elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fupeifine paper,
and new types, (cast for the purpose) whtch
"will be occasionally renewed before they con
trast a worn appearance.
11. The work is furnifticd in board#, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, ol the
halt-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcribtng, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the pricc of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unlefspaid for.
111. In the coutfe of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far exceed in number those given in any other
Scientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expe&ed the work will be comptifed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
gdT Those who wish to become possessors of
this"valuable work wilf pleafeto be earlv in their
applications, as the fubfeription is nearly closed.
Jan. 03.
A large Cellar to Let,
Svjiiiently capacious tofore ftveral hundred barrels
Enquire of the ftiitiiii,
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNT IKG BR LED.
HE -was impoited from England in Novem
ber, feventern hundred and eighty-fix, and
is now ten years old ; he is a bright bay, with a
blaze,fifteen handsonc inch high, is well form'd,
has a great deal of bone and ftrtiigth, and his
a&ion equal to any horse. His coits are well
approved of in the different pails of the State
where he has flood, of which any person inclined
to purchase can inform themselves.-*—— Enquire
of the Printer.
February 18, 1793.
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given, That the Com.
milfioners appointed by the Board of
Tiuflees of the Univerlity of Norih-Car4lina,
will attend at the (own of HilHborough, on the
sßth v and 20th days of April mxt, for the
pur pore receiving; propofaU from such per.
sons as may he disposed to undertake the Build
ings of the University.
FREDERICK HARGETT, Chairman.
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will be of
fered for sale at au£hon, by the Cdmmif
fioners, on the 17th day of September next.—
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid dowft, the refiduc at three equal annual pay
ments With yearly iritrreft on the whole princi*
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Com'rs.
Extrafl of an A6l of the General Aflfembly
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City of Washington.
u Be it ena&rd, That any foreigner may by
deed or will, hereafter to be made, take and hold lands
within that part of the jaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he tvas a citi
zen ej this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him, and tranfnitted to and be inherited vy
his heirs or relations, as if he and they Were citizens
of thu State : Provided, That no foreigner flail,
in virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
privilege of &citizen
Jan. jg.
F O R SALE,
By the Suhjcribtr, at Walnut-Street Wharf,
BILL OF EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediate ule, in pipes & quarter calks,
TENERIFFE WINE, in pipes,
SHERRY WINE, in quarter calks,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 and 4 proof,
OLD BRANDY, OLD SPIRIT,
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE, ALLUM,
Two Bales 10-4 BLANKETS, and
A Bale of MUSLINS.
A new 13-4 Inch CABLE, 120 farhoms long.
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1793. epim
70 BE SOLD, OR LEASED
FOR SEVEN OR TEN YEARS,
THE FOLLOWING
HOUSES.
ONE on Walnut-street, near Fourth-street,
23 feet front, has two parlours below, the
fiontone 215 by 17J feet, the back parlcur is
18 by 14 feet. The front room up stairs is 26J
by 17J feet. There are five good chambers in
this house, besides the garret is divided into
three rooms, in two of them there are fire-
places,
The other House is 27 feet upon Walnut
ftreet, and 52 feet upon 4th street; there are two
good parlours below, one of them 2£ by 20 1-2
feet, the other 25 by 181-2 feet, and seven com
plete bed-chambers; besides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largest house has also a
house-keeper's room. It is intended there (hall
be a communication from both of theffc houses
to a neighbouring ice-house, Sufficiently large to
supply 3 houses. Within 50 yards of these
houses, there will be compleat stables and coach
houses, for both houses ; they will be finiftied
in the moil compleat manner, ana the keys
ready to be delivered early in the summer.
On paying half the money down (if fold) the
oth' r half may be paid bv instalments, or the
whole may remain tor $ years, paying interest
and giving security on the premises.
For terms of sale or lease, apply to the Sub
scriber,
GEORGE MEADE
Who /ids Jor SALE,
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
sixteen (hillings and fix-pence, per annum.
Also, a quantity of BAGS, that will contaih two
and a half and three and a half bushels.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19, 1792. ep 2 m
Insurance Company.
A T a general meeting (by adjournment) of
? Insura nce Company of North-America,
on Wednesday the i6ih instant,
It was Resolved,
"THAI the Instalments which, according so
the Constitution, will become due on thefecond
Monday of Jijly arid January next, or either of
them, may be paid by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so paying
luch instalment, or instalments, (hall reccive a
proportionate (Weofihe Dividends thereafter
to he made, calculating such (hare from the firft
day of the month fuccecding (uch payments re
flectively, Extract from the Minutes,
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Jan. 23.
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER's Ferry.'
332
By THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVID
STUART,St DAN lEL CARROLL,
Efquirei,
Commission rrs appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, See. within the
City of Wajhiugton, tor the reception of Con
gress, and lor then permanent rciidence after
the year 1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars,
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
l Superb Hotel, with bathsj )
out houses, &c.&c.to coll J
l Cacti Prize
l ditto
l ditto
1 dmo
2 ditto
5,000 arc
1,000
500
iod
5°
2 .5
20
16
10 ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
V,ooo ditto
15,000 ditto
*6,737 Prizes
33,263 Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at feajl the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its objefl thereby,
in a magnificent building designed both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expence must neceflarily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which fir
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
Commiflioners having agreed to present in re
turn a fufficicnt quantity of excellent free-ftone,
together with the bed adapted lois for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at something more than
far: In this important indancc it will be found,
on examination, to excecd all the lotteries rhat
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate pofleflor of the ticket drawn aagainft
its number.— AH the other prizes will be paid,"
without dedufl ion ,in one rf/onth after the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Washington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for theconveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9th of Septcmbei next, at the City of Waibing
ton.
Tickets mav be had of Col. Win. Dickens, Citv
Treasurer of Wafnington ; Thayer & BartUi, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Gideon Denifon, Sa
vannah ; MefTis. James Wejl & Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Gilman, Boston; and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS vrill
be given for rhebefl Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot «nd cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if presented
on or be/ore the toth ej April next; and a pre
ference will be given to the Artist for a Con
tradl, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erected, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 fret, with a
back avenue to the stables, &c. Se&ions and
estimates of the expense will be expe&ed
with the elevations, See. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars must be regarded by the Archifett asthe
utmost limit in the expense intended for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
March 6, 1793.
War Department,
January 28, 1703.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are entitled for fix
months of their annual penfio*, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the sth day of Match 1793, will be paid on
the said day by the Coromiffioners of the Loans
within the states refpettively, under the usual
rcgulatipns, viz.
, JCwcry application for psyrrwnt mult be ac.
conjpanied by the following vouchers:
i ft. The cert ificate given by the ttatej fptcifv
irig thai the person pofleifing the lame it in l»£k
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as such, he is annually intitled.
ad. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Justices
of the county of in the slate of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his pofleflion was giv
en, of which the following is a copy (the ccr
tificate given by the state to be recited) That
he served (regiment, corps or veflel) at the
time he was disabled, and that he now resides
in the and county of and has resided
there for the la ft years, previous to which
he resided in
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment
by an attorney, the said attorney, besides (he
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a special letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
I» A. B. of couutv of state of
do hereby conflittite and appoint C. D. of
my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
*v -my penfmn for fix months, ai an Invalid
•of the United Slates, from the 4th day of Sep
tember 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
»793-.
Signed and Sealed'
in the Prcfcnce of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminiftratora
mult lie accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpcdiveoHiccs, and a |f„ oi the time lhe
Invalid dird, wbhfe penlion ■.«, , may claim,
By Command ol ihr r , ulcnt
of the United S. .u-
H. KNOX, ictar-
ADVERTfSfMtKT.
gT Thoje Per/on, *.*„ kavt rKtioU
tio>.Money for the Gitette, and rfcfc
mr,t*r, [„r Hef*»e,„ t nofi
*uke payment to the £4,10r n Jm, ' "
Mathew Carey
Refprfifully informs the Citurns of .h, it • .
Sute,. that the Ma,,. for hi.
edition of
Guthrie's Geography
improved 7
nflw engraving and ~ f„ on J, ,
number of them are tmfhen, f rc '
guUr fupplv during the put>li c a-,on -
w. probably be early , exl Sp '
will b« put m orefs. 5 ' 1 w<!, »
rcfpeftabl, number of Subfcbrr., T
come forward,hus early p.„on,*e ih,J?I
He ajure, them and the
he in general, that no pa„, s or e*p™f c ~f ™
spired in the execution of the work.
Tcrmi of the Work ;
i. IT shall be publilbed in 48 weeklvn,—!,
each containing ihtee (hecu, or ,™£ u '!
page, Of letter preft, in quarlo) '
new rypes on fine paper. 1
II In the course of the work willhedeli.c
ed about thirty large map,, of,he fame si* „
those m the European cditiow, vi 2. mo st Q f th
ihcet maps on post oaper.
%T Bijiic, the m ips in Me Brittjk this
work will COM*", nineor ten America, State Maps
111. The price of each number win J. '
quarter dollar, to be ptid on delivery.
Xo ajvamt req iircd.
IV. Subfcribei, wno dir.pp-nveoUfce wort
ort the publication of (he three firft nurabe.i ate
to be at liberty to return them, and shall Lve
their money repaid.
V. The fubfcnbetV ntrWle, (ball be ptefi.ed
a, patrons of ihie uadertaking.
V Subscription* received in Philadelphia by
the intended publidier; in New-York by all
tbe boo'kfellers; in New-Haven, by M, Beer,,
in Hartford, by Mr. Patten; in Bofton.liy M*lf
1 homas & Andrew,, and bv Mr. Weft; in
timore, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond,'by Mr*
J. Carey ; in Charleston, b v Mr. W. P. Youn/
and by funHr) other ftrrfon, throuofiout the
United State,. (uwt'J
50,000
25.ee©
so, oc©
15.000
10,000
10, coo
10,000
0,000
10,000
10.000
10,000
20,0®0
150,000
Dollars 350,000
MATHEVV CAREY,
Nt>. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
AMER ICANMV ! SEUM,fiom itscommcncf.
mem in Janusry 1787, to Time tlqi, in
eleven vols. Price, neat IV bound and lettered
feventeen dollars and threr fifths.
This work, whici was condufled on an im
proved plan, cotitaiifs the best pieces publifttd
for and again ft the proceedings ol government,
•wi-H be found to contun at feaft as great a va/itry
of political, agriculunral,and miscellaneous tffay*,
as any ever published in America. Perhipsinno
one work arc so many valuabledocumi ntsrcfpe<i
.itig the history of thin country, collected together.
His Excellency the Piefidcnt of the United States,
has declared of it, than u a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nof
one more deserving of public encouragement."
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women,on NurC
ing and the management of Children.
u We recommend theft letters to the perusal of
those to whom they are particularly addiclTcd."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. ioi—Price, bouod,
62 cents.
3 Duncan's Elements of Logic— 75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—>s6 csnti.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Mifa
More's Essays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice,Marchionefs of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married
pone on command ot Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's Hillory of New-Yoik. Price adok
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, byjamesßeat
tie, 1.1.0. profeffoi of moral philosophy and
logic in the, Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Pricc
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay: "We
have seen nothing on these iubjt£ts nnote plain,
more perspicuous, or nfore generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univrrfity in Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry, Pricc four-filths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
xi. Necker'sTreanfeon the importanceof Re*
ligious Opinions.— Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce— PricCj on very
fine paper, 5 Bihs of a dollar.
13. The Confti tut ions of the several United Stafei,
•with the Federal Conflitution, &c. Price five*
highths of a dollar.
14. M'Fiijgal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jcft Book. Pi ice three-ftltbj of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Son!. Pi ice half a dollar.
17 The Do way Tranfiation of the Volgate lift
pie, in quarto—Price, elegantly bound and letter
cd, 50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecunp—P»«ce •
quarter dollar.
19. Think well nn'f. Price a quarter dollar#
20. Christian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar
21. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged—*
Pi ice a sixth of a dollar.
;22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Pricea thirl
of a dollar.
23- Si-left Poems, chiefly American-«fi»ccft
sixth of a dollar.
Sflid Carey has for sale, 3 large afiortrrent *f
Boo.ks, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the most reasonable
fertiis. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being fupplicd m
the uj ift fatis/artory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchjfe quantities for public libraiin.
at War.
book s,
hintsd and sold by