*
N
*
7
I
A NAliO-NAL PAPER, PUBLISH*.]} WtDN fcSD AYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEtiNO, No. 34. NOPTH FIFTH. STREET, PHI LA DEL PHIA
[No. 77 of Vol. IV.]
LAW OF THE UNION.
SECOND
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES^
TH* JKCbWri sisiib'n,
gegun and •<%., of Philadelphia,
in the State of PennfVlvania, on Monday
the fifrti of N'oVembef', one tt.oufa'nd
feveo hundred,and ninety,-t\yo.
An ACT regulating Foreign Coin*,
and for other purpofej.
BE it enabled by the Senate and
House of Rcpiefentntives of the
United States of America, in Congress a (Tern bled,
That from and after the firft day of July next,
foreign gold and silver coins (hall current as
money within the United States, and be a legal
tender for the payment of all debts and demands.
«i jjic fcvt.ot njd rrfnettivr rates following, yd
not otherwise, viz. '1 be gold Coins of Great-
Britain and Portugal, of their present standard,
at the rate ol one hundred cents for every twenty
feven grain's of the actual weight thereol, the t>old
coins of France, Spain and the dominions of
Spain, of their present Hand ard, at the rate ol
one hundred cents for every twenty-seven grains
and two fifths of a grain, of the actual weight
thereof. Spanish milled dollars, at (he rare of
one hundred cents for each dollar, the aftua!
weight whereof (hall not be less than seventeen
penny weights and seven grains ; and in pro
portion for the part's of a dollar. Crowns of
.France, at the rate of one hundred and ten
cents for each crown, the actual weight where
of, {Viatl not be less than eighteen penny weights
and seventeen grains ; and m proportion lor the
parts of a crown. But no foreign coin that may
have been, or shall be iilued subsequent to the
firft day of January, one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety-two, [Via 11 be a tender, as afoie
faid, until fampies thereof shall have been
found, by allay, at the Mint of the United
Slates, to be conformable to the sclpeftive ftan
eards required, and proclamation thereof shall
have been made by the President of the United
Srarc»j—— r 1 r»- - *>*..
Sec. 2. Provided always, and be it further en
aftrd, That at the expiration of three years next
ensuing the time when the coinage of gold and
flfver, agrseablv to the ast, entitled, 44 An ast
(ftablifhing a Mint,'and regulating the Coins of
the United Stales," (hall commence at the mint
<>f the United States, (which time (hall be an
nounced by the proclamation of the President of
the United States') all foreign gold coins, and all
foreign silver coins, except Spain Hi milled dol
lars and parts of luch dollars, (hall cease to be a
lfcgal tender, as aforefaid.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That all
foreign gold and silver coins, (except Sp.mifih
milled dollars, and parts offuch dollars) which
shall be received .u payment for monies due to
the United States, after the said time, when the
coming of gold and silver coins shall begin at
the mint ot the United States, (hall, previously
to their'being ifl'ued in circulation, be coined
anew, in conformity to the ast, entitled, *' An
ast eftahlilhing a minr,%nd regulating the coins
ol s he United Slates."
Sec. Anri.be it further enacted, That from
and after the firfl day of ]uly hety, the fiftv-fifih
ft€tion ot the ast, entitled, " An act to provide
more efFHttually tor the collection of the duties
impoftd bylaw on goods, wares and merchan
dize imooi ted into the United States," which
alcettams the rates at which foreign gold and
iliVer coins shall be received for the duties and
tecs to be tollc6fed in virtue of the sard ast, "be,
and ths lame is hereby reoeajed.
$cc. 5. And he it further enacted, That the
assay, provided to be made by the ast, entitled,
% \ An ast clbMifhins* a mint, and regulating the
«oiiu of the United States," shall commence in
t,hc manner as by the said ast is prefenbed, on
the fccond Monday of Febiuaiv, annually, any
thing in the (aid ast to the contrary notwith
ff-tudirg.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
oj the Houjeof Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, ice- President of the
United States, and Prcjident of the Senate.
APPROVED, FEBRUARY 9, 1703.
GFO. WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
THOUGHT* ON TH|
STA'TE OF AMERICAN INDIANS.
(CONTI f UFD.)
r ?. people of so many men-
A tal arul bodily uccomplifliments should
labor under a natural incapacity foe impiove
ment, leverfes all the principles of reasoning
in ordinary cases, and is utterly inadni llibie.
1 he ravage state in which they continue is
no evidence of it—That barbarism implies
any defect of natural capacity, the history of
«ll disproves—The Egyptians, iPerfians,
PhcMiicitns, and Chir.cfe, all which after'
wards became great and improved nations,
ere once barbarians—they were even igno
rant of the use of fire, and of all the arts
>vhich are depsndanton it and eonnetfed with
; than which there can fcaicely be a more
deci&yc proof of their extreme barbarity—
/id Z&C Yur-//iC 'Jthtto,
Saturday, 1 793'
The fame may be fa id of feveraj other nati
ons—even the polite and polilhcd Greek % to
whom (through the medium of Europe) we
are indebted for all our knowledge, 44 descend
ed from savages, who wandered in the woods
and tields without laws and leaders, having
no other retreat but dens and caverns—"with
out the use of fire, or of food proper fov ll)en
—nay so ferocious as fbmetimes to each
other." Such was the 1 original stare of a peo
ple, de (lined to be the patrons and improvers
of the arts and sciences, and the admiration
of all future a^es —There is not a trine per.
haps in America, whole rudeness equals thi s
description—Their barbarity, therefore, can
not be regarded in any degree as the fruit of
imbecility, either of mind or body. The enu
meration of the real causes which have hu
therto retarded the progress of civilization
among the Indians, with the measures which
appear to me most likely to accompliHi that
obje&, will be the subject of some future pa
pers.
In tW w~?cfr*tave. -.-rtajJ- -
ed the civilization of the Indian-, wc mult
not reft contented with a (ingle view of the
subject, but obfefve the force of all the colla
teral causes which may in any degree have
operated that erfeel—The firft that I (hall
mention, is that which arises from 4< the few
and feeble exertions that have been made for
this purpose, the manner in which theft have
been conduced, and the langor with which
they hatfe been purfucd." The civilization
of a barbarous nation is difficult and labori
ous-—the transition from the hnnter's to the.
pa (to i 1 a! life, afid thence to that of agriculture '
and coftimfcrce, is efte&ed by flow advances—
All changes indeed in t'ie habits and cuftonis
of a nation, mnft be made gradually—men
are attached to that mode of life to which
they have been accuttomed, and are aver e to
the idea of altering it ; the educati
on create a prejudice in favor of their own
state, and an i'r difference to others—Men also
who are accuftrmed to perfect independence,
as is the cafe with all fa vage nations, tevolt
at the idea of furfenderirig their liberty to
the condition of law, or of submitting to any
kind of rcftraint. The an Twer of the ancient
Srvthians to the ambaflador of Menander the
great—of Anacharfis of the fame nation to
Solon, and the avei fion of all savage nations
from adopting the arts and manners ofpolifli
ed life, evince the partiality they entertain
for their own condition, and their indifference
to the bleflings of improved society—The hif
torv and exper'ence of all ag£s, proves the
difficulty of bringing a barbarous nation to
the knowledge and practice of social duties.
Some centuries elapsed before the inhabitants
of ancient Greece were brought to any dfcgree
of civility. The fame may be said of many
other nations. Nearly four hundred years
are fuppo r ed to have pafled from Manco Ca
pac, the firft Inca and founder of Peru, to the
conquest of that country by the Spaniards.
Those sages who firft recovered men from
their wandering savage life to a fixed reft
dence, and inspired them with a raft e for the
enjovments of facial life, generally pretended
a million from a superior being, whom they
represented as the author and natron of that
manner of life and of blessings thev wish
ed to introduce.—Almost ill nations, of whole
origin we have any diftinft: account, were
formed in this manner—The firft legislators
of the Cretans, Egyptians, Grecians, Locrians,
Ariniafpes, Getes, Romans and Peruvians all
pretended intercourse with some invisible
power, and a commiflion from him—Thus,
by availing themselves of the ignorance and
credulity of mankind, and converting super
stition into an inftrumeut of policy, they ob
tained a ready reception to their inftru&ions,
and gave permanency to their establishments.
[7V be continued.J
For the GAZETTE rfthe UNITED STATES.
To Ph i'lo Dinc k n es—the author of a piece, in
the Daily Advertijer cj Saturday laji.
Citizen Author,
I HAVE obfei ved your dirpofition to join
with me and other friends of democracy in
pointing out the macula which (with good glas
ses) may be discovered in a certain political
luminary. We think however, you direst
your Attention to a wrong quarter, and v. ifii
you to djre4 vour telescope to another limb,
where the dark spots of aristocracy are very
evident, and which will furni.li you with more
mat ter for aniinadverfion.
As to the negroes, you inuft be tender upon
that fubieiS —for we think it is rather a mark
of modern democracy. It is certain that
Rome, during the republic, had abundance of
slaves, and that it was Kings who abolilhed
the practice. We have seen Stanislaus labor
ing to emancipate the (laves in Poland, and
Catharine bettering their condition in Rcffia,
—even Louis the XVlth has figr.ed a decree
in favor of the negroes ; why then Ihnuld any
one ape such munarchual c onducft : Conduct
which would give great offence to some of our
best patriots. I ajfirin it, that the contrary
conoud is raoft like a good republican.—Look
305
about you, Citr/jcn ! Who talk most about li
berty and equa'ity—who monopolize the vir
tue and fair it of America ? Who are the guar
dians of toe equal rights of* man? Is it not
those, who hold the bill ot* rights in one hand,
and a whip for t{*e affrighted (laves in the o
ther ? Are not Tome of our warmcft declaim
ers upon liberty, men who traHick in human
flefli and riot on the profits which a rife from
the sweat and groans of their »lufky brethren?
Mark their conduct, Citizen, and you will a
gree with us, that an eternal oppreflion of
these Wretched people, is very consistent with
the pure spirit of modern patriotism !
J n this therefore you were wrong ; but I
will point out proper subjects for your future
lucubrations refpe<fting the ar'iftocratical con
dutt of a certain great man. In the fnft
place, it has been a practice with divers
in order to *et through the multiplicity of
their business, to apportion their time, and do
all things with much regularity ; Aifred's
eronomy of time is well known : the late
King 6f Prulfia always retired early, and con
~ftaij.tly (even in his last fickoefs) role at four
in mo» ningr, employing himielf till f<roi.K
faft with his secret-aries, in reading petitions,
letters, learning the state ot the
Kingdom and dispatching the public business.
—Will you believe it, Citizen even
this symptom of monarchy is to be found in
this free country ! it is said that He alio re
tires at an early hour—that the duties of the
day, with him, begin with the fun, and that
most of the public bufinefsis difpatcbed before
some of our democratic club are out of their
beds; to be Aire foiiie advantages may ari'e
from this, and the public business will never
get in arrear. But why should any one, at
feaSjfc this Angularity but from a love of mo
narchical manners ? and why (hould He not
rather copy certain young patriots, v/ho lye
in bed so long that they have not time to
comb their heads before they go to Congress ?
No- 11.
A fecoud mark of aristocracy is, that Hi
frequently goes to Church and even (hews a
refpe<ft for pious clergymen. I s not this aping
the conduct of many Kings of old, who were
devout worfliipp-jrs—~nd in erfed copying after
Kinff David, who as the Puns ccnriune allures
us, was a crowded rascal. Is this, Citizen
Philo! is this the conduit of our modern pa
triots 1 those who adore liberty To much—-do
you ever fee thein adoring their maker ? Is
not infidelity a mark of what at present pailes
for good democracy—and does not a certain
Gazette frequently blend an outcry ef liberty,
with a sneer at religion ?
Yes, Citizen, until our rulers get rid of the
trammels of religion, .they will never be con
fide red by us, as free from the leaven of arii
tocracv
As to the clergy, I believe it can be proved,
that a certain pcrjon has been feet< in their
company and has ever been heard to speak
refpe&fully of them. A sue mark ot' an
aristocrat ! King-craft and Prieft-craft go
togethe) —and one ot our very patriotic mem
bers has-alrea«ly intimated, that we fliall ne
ver do well, till we get rid of the clergy.—
The time for (hipping them off is not yet
come; bnt every man who does not lean to
■ arirtocracy, aiight to tefufc them counte
nance or fupport—'Jti?ht to declaim ag&inll
| Prieft-cratt—ridicule the puritanical folly of
going to Church and Make these black coated
■ gentry, as poor as rats and a* (habby as a
tinged cat.
Thirdly, fti'ck to the fiibjeft oflevees ; it
}s ti'tie visit? of ceremony must be reccivfcd —
foreigners will to fee a man wiiofe ta
l&rtts and virtues have made his naThe deal*
through the civilized world.—Citizens will
croud to pay him refpeft, and rtiembers of
Co-VgreOi and public officers, think it but de
cent to jhetr re!peft't<> rHE man of the pko-
PL-k. But what then ! Alight he riot, Citiain
PhTto! to be visible at all Hours, and <>n all
davi, cJpecMly on Sundayt, when many of our
cliifrdon't know how to employ tileinffilves !
lfthi' perpetual Visitation did interrupt or
retard the public bulinels, would not that be
compensated by the irtfijfmation hr might gain
iu these very interesting and profitable visits;
Besides we could then call upon him, without
being put on a footing with new ptop/e, who
have started up like Jonah's gourd, and seem
to overshadow the ancient families of the Jo
minvn. But as things are managed, one may
be obliged to (land along fde of a man, whom
a few vears ago, no body knew. Another
thing—whv should not, a? MiV*l*iui fays,
whv Ihould not our ruters go to the coffee
houfes? I never saw the Governor of Pen 11-
fylvania, or the Secretary of Stare, or mem
bers of Congress and other peat men frequent
these places, where they might pick up much
useful information—at least about the price
of stocks and inohiTes ; indeed the beer lhops
might be a place still better, and vifitingthem
would evidence a more genuine democratic
spirit. I fay every great officer ought to
mingle with the people, and if he could not
find time in the day, he might keep o|>en
houfeat night and join with his fellow-citi
zenJ in a sociable game of wbift or all-fours.—
It certainly would oblige some of os, whose
i'ondsefs for that rational amusement is well
[Whole No. 3^9.]
known: hut it is confidently fai. J ., that card*
•are never permitted to be played in the rfo-;fe j
What «bOfft:iiab!e aristocracy and defpotifin is
this, in a free country !
Laiiiy you may obforve, Citizen Philo, that
there is great aristocracy in the preeminence
of his virtues.—How is it— .if,-he is not aim
ing at some higher r ank, that he continue*: so
unite in his favor the attachment and
of every hone ft mind ? How' is it that he has
twice been tbfc unanimous choice of three
millions of people ? And why is he not con
tent with a common (hare of public confi
dence. Such conduit is a snare for the liber
ties of our country—His very merit is dan
gerous—*ind it is high time for America to
shew that republican ostracism which profew
cutes a man for the superiority of his worth.
"C I V I S.
fertile GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
TO THE PRINTER OF THE GENERAL
• A-IH'fkl /.< BR.
M*. Bache,
BY Tft'tmi -.t!i ■ " "vnnr pfnpf-r.
to intuit the Piefident oi' the -
United States are writtrn, i". of little confe- "
quejice, since the causes of that spleen wi, W ']
prompts you to publish them with so much a
vidity is perfcftfy known.
If your venerable Gnirdfrrc views iVoin ].is
abode the mockery of Patriotism tV
h foiled in vour paper, it may console him fir
the follies which He committed, the (ervTlitV
and fveophanev Hr praftifed at the court flf
France ; and for the disappointment He met
with in not being abl» to place an idle sing
song at the head of the Poft-Office. But no
thing can efface from the minds of '
ricans, the iiifampuflv difgrace'l'
Convention He made with, France :
though on the reiuonftrance of C
has been somewhat anieoclsd : vei
tains enough of its firft principle?. to ltrip ti c
boasted laurel from the brow of Franklin, and
stamp indelible disgrace on American foego-
tiation.
But, Mr. Bache, since yonr vevertMe Grwd-
Jire is matie a cornpctitov for Fine with
WaiHngton, I will heriafter furr.ifti you
some anecdotes of his wcer at the fourt »f
Versailles, wh'ci will more fully unfo'd the
jnftice of his claim to a.rtmi ation, for M pa
triotic and difihterjffed condiA
Flam the Monthly Review for Oclofrer, 179*.
AMERICA.
Art-. 5!. A Brief Examination of Lard Sheffield]!
Olft rvationi on tti Commerce 0] tie United sides :
In Seven Numbers ; with Supplemental
Notes on American Manufactures, Bvo. u.
135 —2/6—Primet, 1 at Philadelphia, by M.
(iire ; Tie-printed for Phillips, 8:c. London,
1792.
LORD SHEFFlELDObfervations were
written jnft at the close of a war commenced
against revolted Britilh I'ependencics, arid
which left them in the capacity of independ
ent States ; an Alteration in citetimftaßces
ihatreceffiirilv gave rife to more n svtcri'al
changes in their domestic ceconrtfny,
would bear decisive reaToning at tli.it pfrrioa.
This examination was undertaken at a con
venient diftanee of time, in order to compare
Loid Sheffield's predictions with the present
a&ual ftateoffafts; and was publillied in a
Periodical Work, called The 'Anuiitah Mufeim.
It has every appearance of 1 omin® from the
pen of an able and well informed Writsr,
whom Mr. Capel LofTt, the Editor of th'jEn
glfth edition, points out to be Tench Coxe,
E<q. affittant treafuier to the government of
the United States.
This examination is clea ly purfned ; and
resting 011 known facts ( which we are to pre
sume, from the authorities cited, are bevond
controversy) the author writes with mhre
temper and moderation than mifbt have been
expected, considering the advantages whith
he claims. He reprefeots the productions,
manufactures, imports and exports, of Ame
rica, as materially differing from what Lord
Sheffield expefled when he wrote ; and if his
Lord (hip, arguing from rhe past, vent ured too
largely into futurity, he ran the rifl: to T-hich
all political Reafoners expo r e ihemfelves.
more or lei's, findihg their speculations set
aside by eventj which their firelight could
not anticipate.
We are now informed, that the Americans
are making a rapid progress in all the in oft
(ufeful mancfaftores; not only for their own
confnmptioii, but for exportation, to a degree
that was once deemed incompatible with
their situation, as having such tmmenfe lands
to fettle—but while one description of men
are spreading tbemfelves over new land?, the
population in the old colonies will neceflar'rtv
occasion new employments to be introduced ;
for they are not fofficiently Irhproved and po
-1 i(hed to fnpport drones of any description.
When all the nfefbl departments of Society
are filled, and their fyflem of affa : rs becomes
more complicated, then will be the time to
expert drones of all descriptions to creep in,
and rife up, to fatten on the labours of the
reft, just as they do among t'oeir anceftorc in
the Old World.
• I Hlf—llM^
r ' gi"m
a
F,r the GAZETTE ojthc UNITED STATES.
Continuation oj the proceedings tj the learned
Pa»icY*ist».
ON the third day of February, I "93- agree
able to appointment met, the Hon. J. S.
Esq. the Hon. |. N. Esq. J. H. m.d. p.C. &cc.
and the Hon. A. J. U. Esq.—The firft business
being to appoint a chairman to maintain or
der, it \ras propoled by the Hon. A. J. D. Esq.
" that as Doctor H. pofiefled a voice of un
common tone*, and such as could be known
amongst ten thouland, he Ihould be chairman
during the readings J for, ffaid the Hon. A.
J. D.) as much talking will be neceflary dur
ing the eririynes, if all the remaining three
Jhonld speak at once, which is very probable,
the Doctor's call 1 to order,' might be easily
diftinguilhed " This speech had its due ef
fect, and the Doctor was appointed chairman
during the readings.—The Dofror being pro
vided with a bung-driver, by the Hon. J. S.
for the purpose ofaffifting him in preserving
order, took his feat at the head of the table,
and commanded the Hon. J. S. the owner of
the study, to open the business of the evening
by reading his poem. The Hon. J. S. Esq.
taking off his hat, arose agreeably to com
mand, and opening a large parchment some
what like a knap-sack, feledied from twenty
one others, the faireft copy of his poem, (that
being the lnft copy, it had consequently the
feweft blots and vifitle alterations and amend
ments) and read as follows ;—
To the Hon. T. As , Esq. G—v—r of the State
of P—n—fyl—a; a great and virtuous Patriot,
and my loving friend.
ODE.
MY mighty Genius! whatfo'er thou
Whether divifiV, Or hunftn, bird or beast!
For beast and bird,
Oft have I heard,
Great power pnftefs, and great sagacity, 5
And in a millstone far as man can fee ;
Witness that bird, by vulgars called, a Goose,
That, fquatirig near the wall,
Of Romeo's-great Capitol,
Which her enemies in ire 10
Coming to set.on fire,
Quicki\fmelt the Rat,
And wifely from her squat
His long neck ftretch'd, and round the City
spread the news
And stories like to this I think I've read, 15
Of beads too, but my head
Being full of greater things, I can't just now
The tales repeat, tho' there are such I know.
My mighty Genius! now I fay again—
But for my wandering drain 20
I a(k your pardon, which I hope you'll grant—
As well you know we men by Fancy's fire
Spur'd on, of words ne'er feel the want.
Nor like dull, fnail-pac'd Pedants, stick in the
mire,
But as our Fancy pricks our Nobs, we chant. 25
Oh ! thou who halt presided o'er my fate!
And got me wondrous honor trom the dale-
Yes ! wondrous honor ! for Ah ? who but thee,
Could ever have procured the feat lor me !
That feat which when my friend Oe-l-rs came, 30
He told me gave Ef quire to my name—
For thus he said, " Shquoire Shw—n—k you'se
got in,
" Pyeturdty foteszt/idid de le&ion win."
Who? who but you with (kill and power so
fraught,
Could "e'er the Woodfawyers and Porters taught 35
To ast their part so wifely and so well,
And for my work theii votes so nobly fell ?
None! none but you ! I freely do confefs,
And you, my guardian Goddess, you alone I
bless!
Thanks to your magic arts, 40
Which, with my dinner and my wine,
Burst opc the gateway of the people's hearts,
And made them wholly nine!
Yet ah ! dear Goddess j leave me not I pray !
For should m) face, 4^
Bereft of thyfiveet grace,
By fad mischance betray my inward heart;
Much, much disgrace,
I fear, at next ele£lion will take place,
In spite of all my cunning art, 50
And my dear honors shall be hifyd away.
Ah ! as the Bible fays, I teel
That prayer at ccrtain times is good ;
For now my blood
Creeps thio' my veins meandring like the eel; 55
And now like bottled beer it works,
And soon (hall drive the corks,
That all the paffcs stop.
Whererulhlike porter,fountains,infpiratiom, up.
Now, Thomas, listen now, for now my Ode, 60
Shall ru(h abroad, f
In founds as loud and fwectly fine,
As when the nine,
Beside Panaflus's hill,
Their voices join, 5^
And fingin concert with the Heliconian rill.
Or (hall I fay,
To give Imagination play,
Loud as o'er the wall,
The mill-pond waters roaring, floundering fall ?
Hark ! 'hark ! Tom !
Thou art great and glorious!
Hark ! hark ! Tom !
For thou art vittprious !
Thy enemies n&w may muster,
And threaten, and b1o(l£r,"
But still our G-v-n-r thou (halt remain,
As long as I thy smile and nod can gain.
Tor thee, I've toil'd both day and night, dear
Man,
For thee, of a New Bank I've d rawn the plan; 80
And more, dear Tom ! that great man—G-l-t-n,
So famous for his knack ojtaking in
The wife, long-headed woodsmen I have bro't
To vow fidelity, and with me vote :
Nay—so far have I tutor'd him, that he 85
Swears ivhatfo'er my plan, that, his (hall be.
And such great Tom ! my art is, tho' a Poet,
I'll cram
It down the Countrvmen's deep gullets,
I fay and I'll (how it, go
And make it taste as fwcet as fat young pullets,
Or sweet as of whifltey, a cold-morning's dram.
This done, Oh ! mailer Tom ! wh*t hah to fear ?
This done, ihou fhalt retain ihy itately chaw, *-
R'gardlefs of the hues and cries • OA
That friends to honefiy may raise ;
Regardleis of the fquintmg ~ !
That hate to fee thy blaze.
Oh! Thomas! Thomas ! niay*Jfthou!prefide
O'er P-11-fyl—S itiW ihy loving trijje ; -1-00
(hall they love fhte,' and" I'itmake the tide
Of Popularity forever riiYi, * ' * H - v
Strong in ihy favor as the heat o' th' fun,
For *liy e'erlafting love —a ; v "
When thft reading of the ahov* Ode was
finiihed, its various were iHuft rated
by a refinement of taftc and acutenefs of
judgment, peculiar to the learned Ch4fc of
Panegyrists.
N. B. Thofi; illustrative Critiques lhall ap
pear in a future number.
O U E B E C, Dec. 31
Monjr. Pur.ety Speaker of the House of Afleinbly's
address to His Excellency Major General flarke 9
our pyefent Governor t ££c. isc. &c.
Dec. 29,1792.
I HUMBLY pray Your Excellency to
consider that I cannot expreis myfelf but in
the primitive language of my native country,
and to accept the translation in English of
which I have the honor to fay.—
My incapacity being as evident as my zeal
is ardent to fee that so important a duty, as
that of the Speaker of the firft AfTembly of
the Representatives of Lower-Canada, be ful
iilled ; I mod refpeftfully implore theexcufe
and command of Your Excellency in the
name of our Sovereign Lord the KING.
I mod humbly claim, in the name of the
fame Assembly, the freedom of fpeechj and
generally all the like privileges and liberties,
as are enjoyed by the Commons of Great-
Britain, our mother country.
That the proceedings o£ the Repri? fen thrives
may receive the inoft favorable conftru'ftion,
and that whatever fchc speaker (hall fay,
which might be taken in evil part, may he
imputed to his ignorance and not unto the
AfTembly : that he may resort again to their
House for declaration of their true intent,
and that his error may be pardoned.
Lastly, that as often as necefTary for his
Majesty's service and the good of the Com
monwealth (hall require, he may, by direc
tion of the House of AfTembly have access to
the per (on of his Excellency the Governor of
this Province.
Signed in form
Mr. Abel Learned and Mr. Ward Bailey,
on the new road from the Province Line, on
the Connecticut river, to this Province, on
Monday last arrived in this City ; they took
their route on horses, by which they came to
the River Chaudiere; they estimate that, two
hundred miles shorter than the former route.
A correfpondenfc observes the House for
the reception of the Members, who repre
sent the Counties, &rc. of Lower-Canada, ap
pears like the Britilh House of Commons in
miniature The Speaker's feat is decorated
with an elegant King's arms at the back
the feats for the members, are formed with
elegance and propriety;—the GalJery is well
supported with fluted columns of the lonick
order, and will contain at least 100 people ;
—'.he anti entrance and room for Grangers
who may have business, made neat, wafm,
and comfortable, and the road spacious and
level.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Monday, February n, 1793,
In committee of the whole, on the report of
the Secretary of the treasury, relative to a plan
for the reduction of the public debt—
Mr. Dayton in the chair.
The report being read—
Mr. Giles adverted to the ImperfeA (late of
the information before the House, relative \o
the state oi the funds, particularly as the resolu
tions calling for this information had not yet
been complied with, and he was apprehensive
the requisite statements would not be furniflied
during the present feflion—This being the state
of things, he thought the committee were not
in a fit uat ion to go into a difcuflion on the fub
je«fts ot the new loans, and new taxes, without
further light: he moved therefore that the com
mittee Ihould rife. This motion was seconded.
Mr. Fitzfimons was opposed to the motion ;
After briefly slating the importance of the fub
jedl, the general expe&ation of the people that
something would be done the present feffton rer
lative to a provision for reducing the public debt;
the duty of the government to avail itfelf of the
right reserved to it of paying off a part of the
debt; the ilate of the treasury ; the material in
formation already received from the Secretary ;
the atftual surplus in the treasury, &c. concluded
by faying, that he hoped the committee would
not rife, but go into a difcuflion of the fubje<sfc,
take up the proportions offered by the Secreta.
r y, and adopt or reje& them, as their merits
shall di&ate, or agree toothers which may. be
brought forward by any member of the com'
mittee.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) alluding to the speech of
the President of the United States, refpe&ing
this particular objed, and* the answer of
the House thereto, gave a short account
of the progress of business in the
House; it had been negle&ed ever since the
30th November, though the Secretary's report
has been in itspoffeffion ever since that period.
For the committee then to rife, would be tan
tamount to a relinquilhment of the objed the
present session. He dated several particulars to
shew that it was probable the existing funds
would be adequate to the objedfc in some degree,
without being obliged to have rccourfe to new
306-
taxes. He said, that he had been informed a gen
tleman of the committee had prepared some re
solutions relative to the bulinefs; he hoped
therefore, that the committee would not rife,
but that the gentleman would produce his reso
lutions; that the cemmittec would take them
into cpqf|c\eration, and at leall take fuc'n steps
in the business, as would manifeft some difpoli
tion to meet the wilhes of the people, and jufti
fy the profeflions made by so great a number of
the members of the legifLture.
Mr. Giles repeated his objedtions arising from
the imperfedfc state of the information before
the House—Adverting to th 2 Prelident's speech,
he laid, the propoiitions before the committee
were in diredl opposition to the peech. The
speech does not contemplate any faew taxes, but
the reverse. The proportions dire&ly propose
them. He was as much disposed as any mem
ber to go into measures for a reduction of the
debt, it was an object he much desired ; but he
called on gentlemen to lhew how this could be
done with any propriety, when the most import
ant and most neceiTary information refpeitmg
the funds is not in their pofleflion.
Mr. Lawrance adverted to the resolutions
brought forward a few days lince by Mr.Giles;
and going over them one by one, he aflced what
connexion the present fubjeft had with a folu
tipn of the principal part of the enquiries con
tained in those resolutions ? The most important
information expedted from the requisitions con
tained in the resolutions, he observed, was in
the poffeflion ©f the House, particularly that,
which had any afpedl 011 the present business.
He was opposed to the motion for the commit
tee's riling.
Mr. Mercer said, he saw no good end that
would result from the committee's rising. Had
he the least suspicion that the project of the Se
cretary of the treasury would be adopted, he
would b« one of the last that would ri e in fup
poi t of a mot/on to go into the difcuflion at the
present time ; but he had no such expe&ation.
He then entered into a consideration of the do
cuments before the Houfc, received from the Se
cretary of the treasury ; ne observed they were
inaccurate, defe<sfcive and imperfedt; they do
not furnilh the requisite information as to the
expenditures of the public monies which have
been already paid by the people. He (hewed the
impropriety of laying any new taxes until fatis
fa&ion was had relative to the sums already
paid; the people would not consider their inter
est consulted until this was done. He then urg
ed several reasons in favour of a poftponcmcnt
of a permanent provision for the reduction of the
public debt, till % more competent representati
on was on the floor; that it was extremely im
proper so the reliques of an imperfect represen
tation at the t'ofe of the feflion, to go into the
consideration of so important business. He pro
felTed his wishes that provision should be made
for the reduction of the public debt, and con
cluded by suggesting, that a temporary provi *-
on only, be made the present fefTion; further
than this he thought it would be improper to go
in the present state of affairs.
J. A. PANET.
Mr. Fitzfimons observed, that the gentleman
last lpeaking furniflied him with an opportunity
to suggest to the confidcration of the committee
some ideas he had revolved in his own mind, re
fpe&ing a temporary provision. He then port
ed out resources within the controul of the le
giilature, that might be applied to this objc<ft,
without recurring to new taxes, fpecifying the
sum that would be wanted to begin the operati
on, he mentioned a particular surplus, and the
bank dividend as being adequate to the obje<st.
Mr. Clark said, he wanted information as
well as the gentleman from Virginia; but he
saw no use in the committee's rising; they
would get up where they fat down, if they
(hould now rife. He wiflied the propositions
which had been mentioned were brought
forward, that they might be considered; but
there was another business which he thought had
a prior claim to attention, and that was the
debt due to the bank : in December that busi
ness was puflied with great zeal ; since that
time nothing had been said about it—this ap
peared mysterious.
Mr. Lawrance rose to explain the late of the
business refpedting the debt due to the bank.
The fubjetffc had been suspended, in order that
the House might receive complete information
as to the state of the public funds.
Mr. Page offered some general remarks on
the report of the Secretary of the treasury,
which he said, was considered by many persons
as exceptionable in all its parts. He had his ob
je<stions to it. He wiflied the whole fubjedt to
revert t© the consideration of the legislature, and
had therefore seconded the motion for "he com
mittee to rife, as the most delicate mode of giv
ing the business the go by.
Mr. Madison defended an observation brought
forward by Mr. Giles, which was that there
was a manifeft impropriety in bringing forward
abftra<st propositions for difcuflion, when it was
not known what consequences were involved in
the adoption of those propositions. Mr. Madi
son stated a variety of particulars to {hew that
such ab(lra& propositions are improper. He pro
feffed his wishes that some provision fhouldbe
made for reducing the debt; he believed his col
league was sincere in his profeflions to the
fame purpose. He recapitulated some of the ob
jections arising from the imperfedl Hate of the
information before the House.
Mr. Giles withdrew his motion ; his obje<st
in doing so was to give an opportunity for bring
ing forward the propositions which had been al
luded to.
Mr. Fitzfimon*, after offering some remarks
in answer to observations which had been made,
tending to impeach his consistency and sincerity
in the present business, read two proportions;
the purport of which is. That an annual fund
be conflituted, totonfiftof 103,199 dollars and
6 cents, to begin to accrue the fir ft Jan. 1793;
and that a loan to the amount of 550,000 dolls,
be made.
TLefe being read by tfe
G£. renewed hi, motion far the
Mr. Madison objected to these rrf 1
as being abtlrad propofitiati.. ,l ° D '
Mr. Venable objecled to them • K, -r
the committee trvat ,n the ccurlc 'ol the
on he should move to apply the 1,. ; ,
the objeit now under conlideration "
WtDNE.DAv, February- 10>
Another communication from th,
of the treasury was received, made pur:. a ,. t ,J
the resolutions of the 23,1 wit thi. belnr rea H
it was ordered to be printed for u c a [° of
members. €
A message was received from the Senate U
mr. Secretary Otis, with the bill malciar
priations for the lupportof govemmen? fo V th .
yea^l7^r ftedthe na,e with
Mr. Heifter reported two enrolled bill, Vl i
An ast to authorize the Comptroller of the
treasury to fettle the accounts of Thomas W,f
hart; and an a.2 to authorize the adjuitmcnt ,f
the claim of Joseph Henderfon again (t the Unit
ed States—the Speaker signed the fame.
The amendments of the Senate to the ap pr>
pnation hill were read, and laid on the table
til! to-morro\Y.
1 he House took up the bill received from the
Senate, in addition to the ast to eftabUS -h-
Judicial Courts of the United States.
Mr. Murray withdrew his motion to insert
an additional feftion refpe&ing special bail ii
order to itsbeing made the fubjed of a feparatt
pnmlion.
The bill was then read a third rime, and pal Ted
Mr. Murray then moved, that a commit <t
fhauld be appointed to prepare and riport a
bill to regulate the mode of taking ball in cer .
tain cases; to regulate the recovery of coft t »„
gainst informers or relators in certain cases; to
point out the mode in which suits for penalties
under the revenue laws ol the United States,
shall commence—to extend tranlcripts of jad K
ments from one diftriet t# another, and to re.
gu ate the cods of fees in the commitment of
witnefles.—Laid on the table.
Mr. Muhlenberg called up his motion for a
committee to bring in a bill for fixing the time
of the n«xt annual meeting of Congress—This
motion being agreed to, Mr. Muhlenberg, Mr.
W. Smith and Mr. Sedgwick were appointed
the committee.
The j-eport of a committee on the petition of
the French inhabitants of Gallipolis, was ultea
into confederation. This report, being favours
bie to the petitioners, was adopted, and tl*
committee which made it, were dire&cd to
bring in a hill.
The report ofafeleA committee oa the peti
tion of James Warrington, was t»ke» mt» eoi-
Cderation. This report ceneludeswith Mr*re(*>
lutions. . -
The report was agreed to, and a biil dire&ed
to be brought in.
The amendments to the bill, to regulate
invalid pensions, were taken into confederation.
The House voted not to reccde frum their dis
agreement to one of the amendments proposed
by the Senate ; they reccded from the other.
Adjourned.
THURSDAY, February 21.
Reports from the Secretary of the Treasury
on the petition of Rawleigh Downham, and
Oliver Towers, were read, the former was re
ferred to a i'eleA committee, the latter laid on
the table.
A bill was read twice, and committed, mak
ing an appropriation to defray the expence of
holding a treaty with the hoftilc Indian tribes.
Sundry reports were read from the Secretary
of War, on petitions from the widows and
orphans of officers killed in the service prior to
the 18th May, 1778, and from officers and
soldiers wounded and disabled since that period,
these reports arc favourable to the petitioners.
Mr, Murray's motion for a committee to
bring in a bill to provide for certain judicial
obje&s was agreed to, and Messrs. Murray,
Boudinot, and Smith of Vermont, were appoint
ed.
A letter was laid before the House from the
Secretary of State, relative to a melTage from the
President of the United States to Congfefs of
the 14th of February 1791, on the fubjed of
the commercial intercoufe of the United States,
with foreign nations--which meflage had been
referred to him by the House.
The letter dates that a report on the fubjeA
is prepared, but suggests the idea of postponing
the confederation of it till the next session, on a,
supposition that in the interim, he may obtain
some information which would conduce to ren
dering a report on the fubje&, more compleat.
This letter was referred to a feled: committee,
confining of Meflrs. W. Smith, Giles, Lawrance
S. Bourne, and Baldwin.
The following motion was made by Mr.
Clark, viz. Resolved, that the mace of this
House is an unmeaning symbol, unworthy the
dignity of a republican government; that it
therefore be sent t© the mint, brokeu up and
the silver coined and placed in the treasury of
the United States. This resolution was nega
tived without a division and without debate.
Tnirteen members only riling in the affirmative.
A meflage received from the President of the
United States, by his secretary Mr. Lear, * n "
formed the House that two ails which originat
ed in the'Houfe, had received the President s
ap probation and signature, viz. An a& to pro
mote the progress of ufeful arts, and to repea
the a& heretofore made for that purpose; an
an a<st to repeal part of a resolution of the ate
Congrels, refpe&ing the inhbaitants of 0
Vincennes.
In committee of the whole on the bill ceiV
ed from the Senate, entitled, An ail in ad ,noB
to and for amending the a<sfc, for extending tietim< limited sot fetling the accounts between
the United States and the individual Hates.
Mr. Dayton in the chair.
A motion was made to strike out the firft fac
tion of the bill—This fe&ion gous to repeal the
second fe&ion of tke former a&, which makes
the state of Vermont a party to the accounts be
tween the United States and individual states. In
fkpport of the motion it was said that Vermont,
participating in all the advantages of the inde
pendence of the country, and being a member
of the union, is justly chargeable with its quota
of all the expences that have been incurred; that
as on the one hand, were (fye a creditor state, ftie
doubtless would come in for her proportion of
the balances which (hall appear to be <iue from
the United States to the creditor states; so on
the other, if (he is a debtor state, it is but rea*
fonablethat ftie (hould be liable to pay her pro
portion of those balances; a contrary principle,
it was said, willencreafe the burthens of other
states. It was further said, that in all the great
questions relative to the finances and accounts
of the United States, the voice of Vermont has
had its proportional influence; and (he is there
fore on every principle to be considered as a con
stituent part of the union, and liable to all the
disadvantages resulting from the tonqe&ion.
In oppofftion to the motion it was said that
Vermont as a government bore her proportion
of the expences and facrifices of the war. She
was a frontier state, & only barrier between the
United States and Canada. Her exertions during
the war were made by her citizens alone, with
out afliftance from the other states. That in con
sequence of the peculiar confufions which pre
vai'ed in that state, the accounts of her Services
and fuppiies were left in a very deranged fit»a
tion—-That though the former a& allowed
17, months for her to bring in her claims, yet it
is said the other states have had a much longer
ume. fhat though it (hould be concluded that
Vermont ought to beconfidered as a part of the
confederacy prior to her adoption of the federal
eonftitution, the time certainly ought to be ex
tended for her to bring in her accounts. But it
was urged th.tt (he could not be so considered;
and therefore is not a party to the accounts, pri
or to that period. Since (he came into the Uni
on under the new constitution, (he has borne,
and will continue to bear her proportion of the
burthens of the United States, and will be oblig
ed to pay her proportion of the balances which
shall be found due from the Union. In answer
to the reasoning from her being represented on
the floor of Congress, it was said that the repre
sentatives of that state are representatives of the
Union; they a& in a legislative capacity, and
not as a committee of accounts.
The motion for striking out the I ft fe&ionwas
negatived. Some further amendments were mo
ved but difagrred to. The bill was reported with
out amendment. IntheHoufe Mr. W. Smith
renewed the motion for striking out the ift sec
tion, and called for the ayes and noes, which
were—noes 39, ayes 17, as follow:
A
Mess. Barnwell,
Boudmot,
S. Bourne,
B- Bourn,
Clark,
Dayton,
Gerry,
Gilman,
Huger,
N
Mess. Aihe,
Ames,
Baldwin,
Benfon,
Fitzfimons,
Giles,
Goodhue,
Gregg,
©rove,
Hartley,
Heifter,
Hillhoufe,
Kitchell,
Learned,
JLawrance,
Lirermore,
Madison,
Macon,
Mercer
The bill was laid on the table till to-morrow.
A bill conformable to the report of a fried:
committee on the petition of James Warrington,
was read twice, and referred to a committee of
the whole House to-morrow.
In committee of* the whole on a bill for ex
empting from impost duties, ufeful beasts im
ported for breed—Mr. Murray in the chair.
The bill being read, it was moved to add af
ter the words ,l for breed"—or on rags.
Mr. Livermore obje&ed to this motion. He
Observed that the objeA of the bill is to encour
age the importation of stallions, bulls and boars,
for the purpose of improving the breed of ufeful
animals. These, he said, ought to (land alone;
he thought it would be a very odd aflociation to
conned them with rags. Besides, said he, I d 0
not conceive there is any neceflity for bringing in
the article, for when the rage of calling for in
formation js abated, there will be such a dimi
nution of the business of printing, that he doubt
ed.not afufficsent quantity of rags might be ob
tained in the country by the paper-makers.
Other obje&ions were made by several mem
bers, and the motion being put, was loft. The
bill was then reported without amendment.—
Some verbal amendments were made in the
House. The bill was then ordered to be en
groflcd.
Mr. Barnwell laid the following motion on
the table:
Refohred, that a committee be appointed to
bring in a bill for altering the allowance to the
cpUcdors of impost and tonnage, so far a3 that
po colledor (hall receive more than per
annum - Adjourned.
For the GAZETTE of the UfJIT£E> STATES,
SONG,
For the PRESIDENT'S Bikth-Day —>793-
rAIR in the Poor Soldier, u Tho' Lcixjlif) is proud
r F , HOUGH Envy and Malice thrir crcfts have
X ere&ed,
While Calumny fcattcrs theii fiiebrands
around,
I'll (ing Freedom'§ Fav'rite, so justly refpr&ed ;
Each Patriot's bosom will ccho the found !
He has oft coinpar'd with the fam'd
Alexander,
Whose prudence and valour led captive a
World !
But the Grecian rnuft yield to our nobler Com
mander,
Who Freedom's dread thunders at Tyranny
hurl'd.
Ju li us Caf.#A r is render'd immortal in story,
Who aim'd by new Conquejii his fame to in
crease;
Hut WASHINGTON'S virtues have gain'd that
true giorv
Which, radiant in War, glows still brighter
in Peace!
Charles, Lewis and Frederick, vainly
expeftcd
To build their Renown on the obsolete plan ;
But such Fabrics must tumble—because they're
erected
On the ruins of FREEDOM, that BIRTH
RIGHT of MAN!
111.
Fair COLUMBIA'S sous, by HER WASHING-
To rational Freedom a Temple have rear'd ;
Its Bajts* need only by D'fpots be dreaded —
By Freemen 'twill always be lov'd and rever'd !
Our Union (hould banish seditious discourses,
To prove that Good Order and Freedom agree ;
Then firm round THE PATRIOT let's rally
our forces.
And fnew all the World We defeivc to be free !
May our Federal Fabric, that wonder of Sages,
Cemented by Knowledge and Friendjhip sublime,
— Its beautv and firtnnefs increasing thro' ages—
Like WASHINGTON'S fame, be coeval
with Time! y ' 11
In all civic virtues THIS HERO furpafles;
Let's neVr from his tenets apostate be found
Toast " h?s health avd long life —to the brim
fill your glades—
Ye Winds, waft our wifties—ye Skies, catch
the found !
Philadelphia, 20th February, 179^
S.
liittera,
Lee,
W. Smith,
Sturges,
Sumpter,
Tucker,
Venable,
Willis 17
Philadelphia, Feb. 25.
Yellerday being the anniversary of the birth
day of the PRESIDENT of thfr United States,
the fame was observed with the usual demon
strations of joy and felicitation—Oil this aus
picious occasion the Prf.sidf.nt received visits
of congratulation from the members of both
Homes of Congress—the publicforeign Minis
ters —Heads of Departments—the Reverend
Clergy—Military Officers, and private Citi
zens.—Particulars will be more fully commu
nicated in our next.
S.
Moore,
Murray,
Niles,
Page,
Sthoonmaker,
Sedgwick,
I. Smith,
Steele,
Thatcher,
T readwell,
Wadfworth.
\yard,
White,
Williamfon,
Greenup,
Leonard,
Milledge,
Orr,
A letter from New-York of the 2lft inft.
fays, that an account is received by the Ship
Bn{iol, Capt. Macnamara, that, marvellous
as it might appear, yet it is not the less true,
that Spain has absolutely entered i.ito an al
liance with France.—The particulars not jet,
published.
Advice' from Europe by the Sriftol, arrived
at New-York, mention that Austria is making
the greatest preparations to continue the war
with France —That there is no profpeft of
peace—Kellerman is arrived in Savoy—and
Montefquiou in London. It does not appear
that any very interesting military event has
taken place.
Hindman, 39.
A decree has passed the Nrtiooal Conven
tion for banifting ail the members of the
Bourbon family, except the Ci-devant Duke
D'Orleans.
In the month of January, the School Com
mittee of the town ot tiofton, distributed twenty
one silver medals, with suitable inscriptions and
devices, to the most defcrvmg boys in the upper
dalles of the Free Schools in that town. These
medals are the amount of the annual income of
the Donation made by the late Dr. Franklin,
and were bestowed agreeably to hi* dirc&ion,
44 as honorary rewards for the encouragement of
scholarship in said free schools."
Extract of a Utter to a gentleman in this eity,Jroir
r- _ *t— --- - ---
li The year commenced in this part of the
globe y/ith profpefts that were unfavorable
to the Province. Some days frnce, a most
horrid plot was difcove ed (thro' the goodness
of divine Providence) which was to have been
executed by a part of the Prince's regiment.
They were to kill him, blow up the Maga
zine, and carry off the Military Chert towards
Boston. The Magazine contained 4000 bar
rels of powder; so that the crime would
have been increased by the deftfu&ion of the
whole city of Quebec, and perhaps not even
a person left to have told the horrid taJe.—
A general court-martial has been fitting for
some days, but they can do little, for want
of evidence. Twelve of the conspirators are
bound hand and foot.—l leave you to con
jecture the iflue."
Suvg at the Ball htji Evening.
of her clofc (hady Bowers."]
TON headed,
* Knowledge of " The Rights of Man." '
Canada, dated Jan. 31, 1793.
307
SUPRSIVTE COURT
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
dlezandtr Chijkolm, citizen of the
Jt&teof 6". and F.xecu- I
t**r 0} Rob en harquhar t deceuj- >
eti of the fme Jiatc> i>. f
The jtale of Georgia. J
This alt ion was instituted to August Term,
J79 2 - On the the MarftialJ for
the district of Georgia made the following re
turn : 44 Executed a&.within commanded,that
h to fay served a copy thereof on his excellen
cy Edward Telfair, Esq. Governor of the ftfete
ot Georgia, and one other copy to Thomas P.
CarnesjEfcj.the attorney general of said state."
Robert Forfyth, Marshall.
Upon which the attorney general of the
United States, as counsel tbr the plaintiff,
grounded the following motion made on the
nth of August, 1792. 44 That nnlefs the
state of Georgia (hall after reasonable previous
notice of this motion, cause an appearance to
be entered in behalf of the said state on the
fourth day of the next term or fliall thenftiew
cause to the contrary, judgment shall be en
tered against the said state and a writ of en
quiry of damages fliall be awarded."
But to avoid every appearance of precipi
tancy, and to give the state time todeliberate
on the measures she ought to adopt, on motion
of Mr. Randolph it was ordered by the eourt
that the consideration of this motion ftiould be
postponed to the present term. Accordingly
on Tuesday the sth inft. the attorney general
proceeded to discuss the interesting qneftion,
" whether a state could be sued by one or more
individuals of another state and in an ar
gument of about two hours and a half, ably
supported th» affirmative-fide of tlie queltion
—When Mr. Randolph had closed his speech,
the court after remarking on the importance
of the fubjeft now before them, and the ne
ceffitv of obtaining every poflible light on it,
exprefled a wifli to hear any gentleman of
the bar, who might be difpoled to take up the
gauntlet in opposition to the attorney general.
As 110 gentlemen however were so dilpofed,
tlie court held the matter under advisement
until Monday the 19th inft. when, in presence
of a numerous and refpeftable audience they
feverallv declared their opinion on the ques
tion that had been argued.
Judge Iredell was firft called on by the chief
jufticefor his opinion—ln an argument of
one hour and a quarter, he maintained the ne
gative of this question ; he considered the
states as so many separate independent sove
reignties. He relied much on the books of
Englilh jurisprudence in proof that no sove
reign could now be sued unless with confer,t
of the fame—He was aware that the states
had transferred certain prerogatives of their
sovereignty to the United State-,, but what>
ever tliey had not clearly transferred were
certainly retained—the right of commencing
a suit against the states he did not think clear
ly veiled in the government of the United
States, nor recognized by the judiciary law
palfed in pursuance of the article of the
constitution—Judge Iredell referred to many
authorities, and 011 a variety of grounds de
clared his opinion to be agaiuft the motion of
the attorney general
Judge Blair thought the question turned
wholly on the word'! and intention of the con
stitution, and of the judiciary law—he regard
ed the spirit but more particularly the plain
and.obvious meaning of the words in this light
—he was fatisfied that this court had cogni
zance of actions against states, at the suit of
individuals, and he thought the provifioi. in
the constitution wife, and promotive of the
general good of the people of the United
States—he was averse from the court a (Turn
ing powers which did not fully belong to it;
but he thought he ihould betray the ge
neral interests if he did not lend his aid in
support ofthe real jurifdi&ion of the court.
On the whol« he was clearly and decidedly
in favor of the motion of the attorney general.
Judge Wilson next took a very broad and
enlarged view of the question, which he tho't
would again resolve itfelf into a question of
no less magnitude than whether the people of
the United States formed a nation. He exa
mined the fubjeft by the great and general
principlts of law and jurifprudence,by the laws
and usages of nations, and by our own consti
tution and the judicial law of the United
States,. His argument was elegant, learned,
and contained principles and sentiments high
ly republican—!t occupied one hour, and con
cluded pointedly and unequivocally for the
motion of Mr. Randolph.
Judge Cufhing confined himfe'f to a narrow
compass, to the constitution and laws of the
United States; his argument was fiiort but so
lid and judicious. He saw no room for doubt
but fanftioned by his opinion that of his two
brethren who had immediately preceded him.
Chiefjuftice Jay delivered one of the most
clear, profound and elegant arguments per
haps ever given in a court of judicature; he
took a view of the United States previous to
the late revolution, when we were the fub
jefts "f a sovereign; after our independence
he considered the people as becoming indivi
dually so vereign. In this capacity they form
ed the present government; be then examined
the reafbns of adopting the present constitu
tion as expreflVd in the preamble to the fame;
he examined the distribution of powers which
they had made in this instrument, more par
ticularly those of the judiciary department,
among which he was clearly of opinion, was
that of compelling the of a state
in the supreme eourt of the United States,
even at the suit of an individual of another
state; he commented on the wisdom and found
policy of this arrangement, and concluded
in faror of the attorney general's motion in
the pre'ent cause.
February Term, 1793.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
To GEORGE WASHINGTON'.
ID
DECEIVE tbe gratulations of a heart
Unknown to fcrvile adulation's art;
A Heart that Virtue loves, and loving her,
Mud ever love thee, Vice'* Conqueror.
Tho' strong, yet gentle is thy generous mind.
And long confefs'd the friend ol all mankind;
Tho' great thy toils in war to set us free
From Britiih chains, and give us Liberty ;
Yet thro' some breaib such blood degenerate
flows,
Those who were brethren once, are now thy
While yet thy fame hut equal'd their's they grew
Impaflion'd with thy worth, and praises due
To thy great merit liberally bestowed,
Yet as we knew paid only what they owed.
But those who fee the subtle aits that dwell
In haughty fouls, that with ambition swell,
Know that in praising you, they gave to praise
What in themselves they tho't deferv'd the bays.
For while your fame assumes a bolder flight,
And rising, spreads around a stronger light,
(As when a blazing ball whirls high in air
Its sparks more bright and glorious appear)
By malice struck, they lift their scowling eyes,
And ft ill purfuc thee, but with envious cries.
Yet,WASHi ncton ! be firm,complete thy plan,
Undaunted, still remain the friend of man ;
For Wisdom speaks this truth, round Virtue's
gate
The howling whelps of Envy ever wait.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Peace ftould be the wish of every benevo
lent heart. War throws mankind bick in
their projjrefs <if improvement—.it ii
my to the happiness of the human rar/e. But
ifwarfliould spread in Europe, ar\d Gieat-
Britain engage in ir, it is happy for America
that we are at liberty to remain fit peace
Let others fight—peace and profperitv are
companions and fellow travellers. It be
hpves our government to ta'/e care that our
fiery spirits are kept in rjftraint—left the
raflinefs of individuals ihovild involve the na
tion.
Half the trouUes and altnoft all the quar
rels that vex human life tyring rather from
little ill humours that ought to be governed
and sweetened, than from any real adve-fity.
We make or mar our own hippinefs. This
being true, it only remains for those who
would breed dlfcontents among the people to
watch for little thing's—for flight events that
stir the fretful—that alarm the timid, or that
irritate the proud and envious. Thus by
negle&ing nothing, they may accomplish
every thing. But why lhould they do
this? it will be demanded—Arfvcr, to
get cbofen into Congrefn. Many indeed are
hunting finaller game. It is more proper to
fay, they are kept for their barking—and the
expedled reward is, to get the bones when
their masters shall lie seated at the table.
Mr. Fen no,
P leaje to publijk the following Impromptu, J*om
an Auditor oj Debates.
THE Secretary makes reports,
Whene'er the House command him ;
But, for their lives, some Members fay
They cannot understand him.
In such a puzzling cafe as this,
What can a mortal do ?
'Tis hard for one to find reports
And under {landings too.
The Senate of this state, on Tuesday last,
palled a resolution, for the appointment of a
Federal Senator, by joint vote of both houfqs.
The resolution will, no doubt, be concurred
in by the house of Representatives.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 18/2
3 per Cents, 10/3
Deferred, tl j 2
Full /hares Bank U. S. 13 per cent, prem
in the Insurance Company 75
PROPOSALS
For re-printing a new, entertaining and
inftru&ive Work, intitled,
the
Errors of Education.
BY Mas, XLIIA I* a lONS.
Injlability of mind impedes our road tori* fiction ;
and youth, if net animated by ex ample, to
illujlrate the precepts «/vi*tui, aill
ever Jail into ERROR.
The European edition of this work, printed
last year, fella at 12s. the two volumes, (and few
copies, ij any, to be had at that price This JirJi
American edition, -which fliall be well executed,
on an entire new type and fine paper, will be
delivered to fubferibers in one volume of about
420 pages i2mo. neatly bound, at a FrenckCroxv*
each, to be paid on receiving the book, which
will be put to press as soon as a fufficient num
ber of fubferiptions are obtained to defray the
expenfc of the undertaking.
ftT Subscriptions will be received at the Book/lores
oj Me firs. T. Dob [on, W. Young, J. Crukjhank, and
B. Johnson, and at Mr. Henry Karnmerei' /, No. 24,
North 7hird-Jlreet, Philadelphia \ by MeJf.R. Hodge,
S. tampbell, and T. Allen, Booljellers, New-York ;
by Mejfrs. Day & Co. Printers, Trenton ; by the
Subscriber, in Burlington ; and by others in whose
hands subscription papers are lodged.
Feb. >8, 1793. ISAAC NEALE.•F O' U. s A L t,
By tie Stijtimr, *1 U'«ln»t-Street il'Urf,
BILL or EXCHANGE
Madeira Wine,
Fit for immediate "If, in P'P ci & quarter calVsi
TENERIFFE WINL, tuples.
SHKRRY WINE, in quarter cailui,
WEST-INDIA RUM, 2, 3 a"d 4 p'uo'i
OLD BRANDY, OLD Sflßl'l.
COPPERAS, BRIMSTONE. ALLUM,
Two Bali* 10-4 BLANKETS, auu
A Bale of MUnLINS.
A new 13-4 Inch CABLE, t2ofa homs long.
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia. Jan. tg, 1793. eptm
— jusr eUßLisiiiD,
By Thomas Dobfon,
ZockftUtT, the Stone-Unfit Second fireet,
PHI L*DiIP>II A,
VOLUME VII, of
ENCYCLOPAEDIA:
or, A DICTIONARY of ARTS,SCIENCES,
AND
MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Piun enti>(fa vw »
. IT WHJCH
TH* SCIENCES an» AR'IS
arc djjafled i«u<Mhc l*orm»of pttiinft,
'■TREATISES' oa :
COMPREHENDING
THE Hiftyry, Theory, and Practice, of each>
according to the UlfK Dtfcoverirs and im
prove incuts : and full Explanations given of the
varices detached parts of Knowledge, whether
Natural and Artificial Objeeb, or to
Matter's Civil, Militar v, Commer
cial, &c.- Including Elucidations of the inoft inn
porianc Religion,Moi^'.s,Man
ners, and the Oeconomv of Lte : together witii
a DHoript vn of ail the Countries, Cities, pnn
cipal Mountains, Seas, Riveis, «Stc. throughout
the Woild ; a Genera! Hiftoty, Ancitnl and
Modern, of the different Empires, Kingdoms,
and Slates; and an account of the Lives of the
molt Eminent PcfJons in every Nation, from the
earlieit ages down to the prefem times. Com
piled from the writings of the best authors, in.
fevnal Languages ; thfi mod apptoved Dictiona
ries, as well of General Science as of partic.ulai
branches ; the Traufaftions, Joui pais, and Me
moirs of the learned societies, both at home and
abroad—the MS. le&ures of eminent profellors
on different Sciences : and a variety of original
Materials, fuVhilhed by an extensive Corjrtfpon
dence.
The Seventh Volume contains a defcripfion
of Mount Etna, Eudiometer, Exchange, Expe
rimental Philosophy, Svftem of Farriery, Feudal
lyflem, Fire, fixed Air, Fluxions, Food, Fortifica
tion, Folli's, h'ftoi y of Fiance, Gardening, Gas,
Geneva, Geography, Geometry, Gilding, Glals,
See. with a variety of articles in natural hiftoiy,
biography and miscellanies. 11 lui-ratcd with
Thirty elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS, ff
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast tor the purpole) which
will be occafjoiully renewed before tlicy con
tract a worn appearance.
11. The work is furhifbed in boards, in volumes
or half-Volumes, as fubferibers chufe;the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the Volumes or half-volumes finiftied
to be paid lor when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work wiilbe delivered unlefspaid for.
111. In the couife of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
tar exceed in number those givco iu any other
fcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant fronttf
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes.
It isc:opcfitfd the woik will he compiifed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
Thote who wish 10 become pofTclTors of
thisvaluable work will pleafcto be early in their
applications, asiiUe fubfeription U nearly closed.
Jan. 23.
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful situation on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of direttion towards the Federal
City and George Town, in full vjewof <*ach wlace,
commanding a profptdt of the river and adjacent
country of Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres ot Land, lying di
xc&ly on ther.vcr, will Refold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-story framed
d welling-houfe, neatly finilhed, a kitchen,office,
brick smoke-house 3nd dairy, two-ilory framed
barn, a weH of excellent water, and an ice
houle, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
ccflarv impiovcmt nts ; the whole of the land
encloftd wiih poiU and rails, ten 01 fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. lis
contiguity to those three towns mutt render it au
objett worthy the attention of any person who
withes to invest money in a property that mull
enhance 10 value, in proportion to the rapid in
crease of the federal Alexandria and
George-Town. This property ?ies nearly in a
Central fjtu-tion to each place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep ftiore and harbour,
capable of receiving veiFels of arry burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convfcniint
Ferry might be erected here to the Citv ©f
Wafliing'on and * lie Maryland.(hores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.—Alio to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles diiiant,
■which will suit well to fup,ply the above in
wood and timber. The title may be seen to the
above property, which is mdifpulable, and terms
known by application to the fubtcriber, living
on the premises.
Baldwin dade
Dtctmlir 1 ztk, 1792
By the Com:nifii.?ncrs appointed to prepare
ihe Public Buildings, dec. within the Cily
of WjfbiogioH, for the Mccprton of Congress
and for ihcir permanent rclidence after the year
1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVtM£%:T'O*'T«E
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets-t 7 dotl«r« T are
LISV OF PRIZES, viz
1 Supnb Hotel, wifb baths, )
out h'»uft*s, See.See. to colt j
i Calh Prize
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 diito
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 di'.to
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 P r,/rs
33,263 Blanks
50,000
The Cole qefign of this pottery being to facili
tate other improvements together with thcPublic
Buildings— it is the particular dcfire of the Com
missioner* ihat thclc mav be effe&ed with as
few deductions from the Prizes as poflible^ —how
far their endeavors may be answered, ttic Scheme
of the Lottery will derr.onflrate. The keys of
the Hotel, when oompleat, will be delivered to
the fortunate poflVfTor of the ticket drawn a
againft trj number.
Ail the other prizes will be paid, without
dedufl/<•//, in one month after the dtawing, by
the City Trealurer at Washington, or at such
Bank or Bulks as may be hereafter announced.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9th of Si ptembct next, at the City of Walhing
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. IVm. Dickens, Citv
Treasurer of Washington ; of MrflVs. James We/l
& Co. Baltimore ; of Mr. Peter Oilman, Boston ;
and at such other places as will be hereafter
publiftied.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given tor the belt Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Qath*, Sublfs, and other out houses, if hrcjtnted
on or bijorc the \oth oj April next; and a pre
tcrcncc will be givm io the Artist for a Con
trail, provided he be duly qualified to
com pleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be crc&ed, will
be a corner lot of about 90 bv 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the ftablcs, See. Se&ions and
elti mates of the cxpenfe will be cxpc&ed
with the elevations, &c. complcat ; and 50,000
dollars mult be regarded by the Architect as the
uimutl limit in the exp« nfe intruded for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for ihe atfausbftHe City.
January lq.
War Department,
J a nuary 28, 1793.
INFORMATION ig hercbv given to ail the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the funis to which they are entitled tor fix
months of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
011 the sth day of March 1793, will be.paid 011
the said day by the Commiflioners of the Loans
within the slates refpc&ively, wader the u(pal
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mull be ac
companied by the following vouchers :
ift. The certificate given by the ilaie, fpecify
ing that the perlow poflcfling the fame is in fa£l
an Invalid, and alceitaining the sum 10 which,
as such, he is annually iniitlcd.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Justices
of v the county of in the (late of and
made oath that he is the fa-me A. 9. 10 whom
the original certificate in hi* pbfleffiort was giv
en, of which the following is a copy (the cer
tificate given by the (late to bfc recited) That
he served (regiment, corps or veffel)at the
time he was disabled., ana that he now resides
in the and county of and has rcfided
there for the last years, previous to which
'he resided in •
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment
by an attorney* the said attorney, besides the
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a special letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
T, A. B. of county of Rate of
do hereby constitute and appoint C. D. of
my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf c»f
mv pension for fix months, as an Invalid
of the United States, from the 4th day of Sep
tember «79 2 i a "d ending the 4th day of March
1 793-
Signed and Sealed
in the Presence of
Acknowledged before mi,
Applications of executors and adtniniftrators
in nil be accompanied with legal evidence of.
•heir refpc&ive office?, and also of the time the
Invalid died, whofc penlion they may claim..
By Command of the Prefidcnt
of the United States,
H. KN'OX, Secretary,at War.
The Printerj in the refpeftive State■> are re
queued to pubti/h the above in their NewJfMpcn J 9r
the space ej 2 months.
PLANS
City of Waftiington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
ep 2 w
VOBSOX, CASEY, YOUNG, & CRU SWANK.
50,000
25.000
20.000
15, 000
10,000
10,000 -
5, cOO are
10.000
1,005
500
JCO
5° *
2 5
20
10
10,000
10, coo
10,000
10,000
20,000
150,000
Dollars 350,000
or THE
308
sO n SOLD, os LEASED
Va SEV KM OR TEN Tl*«s,
Till FOLLOWING
HOUSES.
ONE on WafWut-fti eet, mar I r ourth-ftreet,
23 feet front, has iwo parlours below, (he
liouione 2igby i7gleet, the back parlour is
18 by u feci. The front room up liaits if
by 17* feet. There are five good clumbers in
this lioufe, besides the garret is divided into
three rooms, in two of thciu ihcic are fire-
places.
The other House is 27 feet upon Waluut
ftreet, 32 feet Upon 4th ttrect; there afe two
goo;i purlruis below, one ot them 25 by 20 1-2
feet, thr Other ?5 by 18 1-2 feet, and seven com
plete bfd-chjitkicis » bilides the garret is di
vided into 4 rooms, 3 of which rooms have fire
places. The kitchens are good ones, and are
under the houses ; the largclt house has also a
houft-kcepci's room. It ii» intended there ihail
be a communication from both of thefc houles
to a neighbouring ice-house, fufficiently large to
supply 3 houses. Within 50 yards of these
houses, there will be conipleat (tables-and coach
houses, lor both houses; they will be finifhed
in ihe most complcat manner, and the keys
ready to be delivered earty in the Cummer.
On paying half the money down (if (old) the
oth r half may be paid by inlUlments, or the
whole may remain tor 5 years, paying intcreft
and giving lecurity on the premises.
For terms of sale or lease, apply to the Sub
scriber,
GEORGE MEADE
Who has Jor SALF. %
Sundry Ground Rents,
In this city, amounting to twenty-five pounds
sixteen (hilling; «nd fix-pence, per annum.
AJfo, aquan'tty of BAGS, lh»it wilt contain two
and a half ai.d three and a half bufael*.
PuiUddphia, Jan. 19, 1792. efivm
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
February ill, 1793
WHEREAS foreigners holding Stock in
the Bank, of the United States may pre
fer receiving their Dividends in Europe, to le
cetvin? them in America,
RESOLVED, That any proprietor of the
Capital Stock of the Bank of the United States
residing in Europe, (hall be entitled to receive
either in London or in Amsterdam, the half
yearly dividends which m<iy be declared there
on—iu London at the rate of one pound sterling
for every four hundred and forty-five cents', or
in Amfterdatn at the rate of one guilder current
money fox every forty cents; and four mills—ihc
dividend declared in January of each year, to
be paid in London or in Atnderdam on the f«-
cond Monday of July following—and the divi
dend declared in July of each year, to be pa-d in
London or in Amsterdam on the {ccoitd Mon
day of January following.
Provided, That every such Proprietor (pre
vious to the declaring of any Dividend, so to be
paid in London or in Amfterdajfri) ftia!l give au
thentic notice to the Prcfident and Dire&ors of
the Bank at which of the (aid Cities he will Ic
ceive the laid Dividend.
liy the Prcfident and Dire&ors.
JOHN KEAN', Cafliier.
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this City will be of
fered tor lale at auttion, by the Commis
sioners, on the 17th day of September next —
One fourth pad of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
mcnts with yearly interellon the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Cem'rs.
Extra# of an A6l of the Grneral AfTcmblv of
Maryland, concerning the Territoiy of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Washington.
«« Be ir enabled, 7hat any foreigner may by
died, cr pitl i hereajter to he made, take and hold lands
within that part of [he jaid Tet ritory which lies with
in this State, ir the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of thit Statt: Provided, That no foreigner f/iatl y
in virtue hereof , be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen
I hii. ig.
£0 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on the 25th inllant, a likely Ne
gro Mait called Isaac, about twem\-three
yearsoid, five feet fix or eight inches high, a
well made tellow, fond of talking, h.s a large
moulh, and (hows his teeth very much when
talking ; had on when he went away, a brown
linen tlurt, a (hort white kersey over jacket with
a very high collar and plain bread, wuh buttons
which appear to have been very gay ; a pair of
whue ketfey breeches, a pair of white knit yarn
(lockings, a pair of (hoes with firings in thern,
and a coarse hal ; all the above cloihes are al
mOst new. haid Negro was fprmetly the pro
perty of Mr. William Thomas," late of Kent
County, near George-Town Cr.rfs Roads, de.
ceased, and has for fcveial years been employed
■in that neighbourhood, and principally by a Mr.
Maxwefl, and lately by Messrs. John and Tames
Carmacle, as a waggoner, which bufincfs ne is
well acquainted with, and is wli.t he prefers;
and has been engaged in driving a waggon trom
said Cross.Roads to Duck-Creek, &c. until
August last. I expea he will make his way for
the neighbouihoods of Geoigr.Town, Duck-
Creek, Dover or Wilmington. The above re
ward will .be paid if delivered to me in this
place, or Thirty Dollars if fecund in any goal,
so -that I get him again. He is an artful lellow,
and when ta-ken, will make his tfeape, unless
parti;ularly secured.
Easton, OWEN KE.N'NARD,
7a/bot County, Maryland, Dec. 28, i 792. 2m
ftS" The pjicc of this Gazette is Three Dollars
per annum—One halj to ie paid at the tiac oi fui
[criomg. J
Stock Brokers Oifo
Great Dork-Utcet, N*w.Yo*j '
THt iwbCcribcr. intending to covftah
entirely to the PURCHASE acbSALK «
STOCKS on COMMISSION, BcpW,, J*
»n trivic»tu hisintnci anOothcn.ja ifeelVL
ot a Stock Broker. Those wbo may plejfc,
vol him with their bufincfs, may *k.'"
having it ti anfjftcJ with the utnrnft RdtKty »oi
JiTp.'ch. •
6rder» fi-o.n M.tVfdeli»hi»,B«JM,i >l ,rt4 r
[ part at tne Uilitcd wiil bVUidty jftftE*
| _cl to. ' -
(t.r.) <■
{K O AR D HI.KtCKI'R.
BOOKS,
r(t I p T Z 9 # NO SOLD IV
M A T H E W CAREY.
No. 118, hUrket-Street, Philadelphia,
1. A MERlCA\MUSLU\l,rromu Sl onnn f „ r ,-.
ii mem ill January 1787, 10 June 179s , j„
eleven vols. Price, neatly hound and kacr'ed
fcventecit dollars aria thi ee fifths.
This. wotk, winch was condtlfled onsn.rfv
proved plan, contains the best pieces puilt/hid
tor and agamft the proceedings ol government,
will be found to couiain at lealt as great a variety
of politics!,agricultural, and mifiellJueous
as any ever published in America. Perhaps in m
one work are so many valuable docurriLnt?rtfpiit
tng tbe history of this country, enllcftfd togci'lier.
His Excellency the President of the Urifted SiatM*
has declared of ir, that " a more irfcful Irtcrary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deferviiig of public encouragement."
s. Smith's Letters lo Married Women, on Nbrf.
;ng and the management o' Children.
" We recommend these liners to tfte perusal of
thole to whom they are particularly aridreffen."
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101—price, bound,
6i cents.
3 Duncan's ElemcnUof Logic— 75 cents.
4. Beauties ot Fielding—so cents.
5. Beautirs of Blair—3o emit.
6. L.dies' Pocket I.tnrary, containing Miss
Mote's F.ffays, Gicgoiy'i Legacy, Lady Kmiing.
ton's Advice, Marchioncfs «l Lair, b.-u's Advice
Swift's Letter to a newly married L?d v,Mrs. Cba
pone on command fit Temper, Morc's FabUs for
the Ladies, Price 6fS.
7. Smith's History of New-York. PiiW'i'ffflfc
tar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by Jamesßrat
tie, 1.1.d. prokffor of moral philosophy and
lojric in t he Marifjphal College, Aberdeen-- Price
three-fourth's of a dollar. Of this book the
Crincal Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay ; 41 We
have seen nothing on these lubjdts more plain
more perspicuous, or more genet allv ufeful."—
N. 15. It is introduced into the University in Plir.
Udelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-filths of a
dollar.
10. Hlair's Sermons. Price two dollar?.
11. N< cker'sTreat tfe on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar
12. Examination of the Qbftr vat ions of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Pi ice, on very
fine paper, 5 81 hs of a dollar.
13. The Conftuutions of thefevera! United States,
with the' Federal Conftiiulion, occ. Puce five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Prieethree-eighthf of a dollar,
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifth* ojf
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate lii
bl , in quarto—- Price, elrgjhlly bound and Ittlei
ed, 50/2•—plain,'fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecum—Price a
quarter dollar.
iq. Think well oii't. Price a Quarter dollar,
20. Chr iltian Eco-nomy. Price a fifth of a dollar,
21. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged—
Price a sixth of a Hollar.
23. Poems by Col. Humphieys—-Price) third
•f a dollar. ,
23. S.'left Poems, chiefly American-—Pricc a
sixth *jf a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large aiTci true ill of
Books, European as well as A iper/can editions,
which he will dispose of on the m'oft te'afonable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
Commands, may depend upon being fuppfied iff
the molt faiisfactory maimer. A liftefaf allowance
t*o such as purchafc quantities lor public libiarit*
or to fell again.
Insurance Company.
AT a gmeral meeting (by adjournment) of
the Insurance Company of North-America,
on Wednesday the 16th inltant,
It was Refolvtd,
TH AT ihe Instalments which, according t«
the Conftiiution, will become due on ihe ferond
Monday of July and January nefct, or either of
them, may be paid by any Stockholder at an
earlier period ; and any Stockholder so paying'
such infialmcnt, or instalments, shall receive a
proportionate (bate of the Dividends thereafter
to be made, calculating such share from the firit
day of the month succeeding such payments re
fpcdlivcly. Extract from the Minutes,
EBKN. HAZARD, SccVy.
Philadelphia, Jan. 23.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG
Of the very fir'ft quality.arid fated importatio*
from Canton, via New-Yoik, by retail,at
No. 19,
Thitd, between Chcfiiiu and MarW? Sirfffs.
N. B. AJctu Boxes of the above HYSON ftrfaft.
TICKEtS
Uthe FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be bad it SAMUEL COPPER'' Fe»r .
A large Cellar to Let,
Sujficienlly capacious to Jlore (tveral hundred barrel-
Kaquiie 01 ihu Priktia
it