[No. XCV.]
THE TABLET
" There is a certain frivolous falfhood that people indulge them
selves in, which ought to be had in greater debellation thau it com
monly meets with."
IT is no small inconvenience for a man to be
doubted as to the trath of any thing he as
serts. Many people acquire an habit of speaking
at random on indifferent matters, and without
being aware of it, molt of the information they
communicate is either falfe or incorrect. The
consequence of this negligent mode of speaking
is, that a pcrfon cannot be believed when he really
Ipeaks the truth-
People of a warm imagination are apt to exag
gerate fa<fts t<7 such a degree, that whenever they
make an aflertion, the hearer at once i'uppofes
great allowance is to be made, as the represent
ation is so far beyond the reality. There is an
other fort of mert, whom onefhould believe with
great reftridlions. I mean thole indolent per Tons,
who never enquire into the circumstances of an
affair, but take up and circulate every report that
comes in their way.
Whatever may be tliecaufe that leads a person
aside from the truth, he will find a great incon
venience, in having his word scrupled. Nothing
will secure to a man the reputation of veracity
but a most rigid attention to the prqpriety of
what he communicates. It is true that a man
may be difb"lieved in all he fays, andycr no per
son will be so uncivil as to charge him with utter
ing falflioods. There is a genteel way of eva
ding any direift charge ia the matter. A man
prone to an extravagant manner of converfatior
gains little belief. His acquaintance modelHy
fay of him, that they cannot ltric r ily rely on
what he aflei ts, because he is accultomed to ex
aggerate. He supposes such a charge conveys n j
reproach, and he bears it with good humour.
But it would be well for him to trace the effeifts
of such a character. He soon forfeits the confi
dence of his friends ; and his veracity, though,
not explicitly called in queltion, can give no cur
rency to his words. A careless man likewise.
who is too indolent to inveltigate the truth of
any matter, gets into an habit of miltaking things,
and rendering suspicious whatever he alledges.
Such a man, to be sure, is not called a liar, b«t
still he never can be believed. When a person
derives every disadvantage that could relult from
being called a liar, it is of no great importance
fini ply to avoid the character.
Few men fufficiently eflimate the advantages of
a reputation for truth and sincerity. It saves a
person much trouble in his common intercourse
with the world. For if any one has often been
known to misrepresent a state of facts, whatever
may have been his motive, he mud, in order to
gain belief, produce something more valid than
his own aflertions. On the contrary, a man who
has never been discovered in misrepresentations,
will find no difficulty in having his word receiv
ed for truth.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
LETTER. No. VI.
MR. FENNO,
AS the plan I am to unfold grounds itfelf, and depends entire
ly on the gcnerofity of the nation for its execution; it in
spires me -with the greatest confideuce that it will be crowncd with
success : Abler heads than mine may propose better means for the
gradual abolition of slavery, and the happinefsof the African free
negroes, living now among us ; but no one can fix his plan on a
.more solid dependence—l would propose :
That Congress be requested to grant to every free negro man, 01
family, a trail of land in the diftri£l hereafter mentioned, propor
tioned to what they can cultivate, but of no value in trade till oc
cupied by him, his heirs, or those to whom it was granted. Thai
when a certain number of applications has been made for obtain
ingthat favor, that a strong Situation be chosen, such appears to be
the Peninsula formed by Huron, lake Michigan, and lake Su
perior, south St. Mary's strait and falls, on Pouchitanui river, weft
of the said lands of the Peninsula, for a colonial town. That zi
firft these free negroes be provided with the most neccffarv tool.-,
and transplanted there at the expence of the Commonwealth ; that
a governor,judges, white citizens, be appointed, and such othei
measures as the wisdom of government shall dire£l be adopted to
direfl the colony in its infant (late : That in future when any gen
tleman manumits his (lave, he is to apply for the free grant of a land
certificate, and pay the costs of necessary tools and transportation o
government : That government may be requested to lay heavy
fines on the importation of slaves, but that it may be lawful for the
freemen to fell their slaves for misbehavior, under warrant of a
Judge, in the Weft-India illands : That it may be lawful to have,
wear, or in the next parish church, Sunday Schools, to teach the
young Negro flavc, reading, religion, and moials.
The benefits of such measures would be, that as reward, punish
ment, and iuftru£lion, go hand in hand, the slave will become trus
ty, lefstroublefome, and more profitable to his master ; the fear oi
being sent to the Islands will mend his condu£l ; of free
dom and wealth will excite him to deserve them ; the Augean lia
ble will be cleaned without loss of property ; the general mass of
slaves will become ripe for freedom ; their great number unnnc
ceffary to agriculture ; arid as the resources of the nation appear to
nie matchlefe'by any now on the globe, it may in future be coin
ciding with the wisdom of our rulers to offer a gsnerous price for
we slave thus become fit for freedom ?.vid colonization.
C oft£e%fyoytfcb
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN fENNO, No. 9, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK
No. XCV
WEDNESDAY, MARCH, 10, 1790.
ut as colonization has loft much of its credit, I will take a
ig t urvcy of this matter. Where there is uncultivated land, co
onization is prejudicial; it lelfens the progress of agriculture, and
t e increale of population in the mother country : In modern
urope, Portugal, Spain, and even England are the examples of
this ; Holland is an exception, betaufe there is almost no land, ex
cept in Guilderland, the reft of the Dutch inhabit chiefly marshes,
diked and dammed ; trade is the field they have to cultivate
this draws foreigners, who replenish what colonization exhausts.
n ua it is advantageous to the Chinese, because almost every
men ot land is cultivated,or ufefully employed, and its consequence,
population, raised to such a pitch,that the fouthem borders of the
,ea are lined with barges, justly compared to permanent floating
towns and villages, as the law forbids an individual born thereon
o ileep on shore. Colonization is also beneficial there, because
rhe colonies are trading ones, eftabhftied in the Asiatic iilands,
nd on India's continental Ihore, and because the Chinese is so at
iched to his native foil, that when industry has gained him a
maintenance he returns home.
To the United States, colonization will be a triumph ; it will
>e performed within their own territory ; it will be a strong fron
ier eftabliftiment, commanding three lakes, besides other advanta
ges tor time to ripen, and the government bellowed on the African
.ncn, will attach a permanent and inestimable jewel to the brillian
cy of the national chara&er.
Ana now Sir, I thank vou for the place you have given to my
letters in your elegant, ufeful, and philosophical paper : Farewell,
; ou will hear no more from me, as in obtdience to the firft law
't nature relative to man, 1 take the plough in hand, to scratch my
nother'j pate. RUSTICUS.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
At the Second Session, begun and held at the City of New-York,
on Monday the Fourth of January, 1790.
An ACT providing for the enumeration of the
Inhabitants of the United States.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Reprcfeotatives of the
United States of America in Congress aflembled, That the
Mji fhals of the several diftncU of the United States, (hall be, and
:hcv are hereby authorized and requiredto caufc the number of
the inhabitants viiihin their rffpcftive diftrifts to be taken ; omit
*.ni(s ITI such enumeration Indians not taxed, and diftinguilhiiig
free persons, includiog those bound to service for a term of years,
from all others, didinguifhing also the sexes and colours of free
ucrfons, and the fret males of (ixteen years and upwards from
host under that age ; for effecting which purpose, the Marlhals
(hall have power to appoint as many Afliftants within their ref
peftivc diftri&s, as to them (hall appear neceflary ; afligning to
?ach Aflidant a certain division of his diftrift, which division (hall
consist of one or more counties, cities, towns, towndjips, hundreds
or parilhes, or of a territory plainly and diftiuQly bounded by
water courses, mountains, or public roads. The Marshals and
their Afliftants (hall refpeftively take an oath or affirmation, before
fon>e judge or justice of the peace, resident within their refpeft.ve
didrifts, previous to their entering on the discharge of the duties
by this ast required. The oath or affirmation of the Marshal (hall
be, " I, A. B. Marlhal of the didrift of do solemnly
swear (or affirm) that I will well, and truly cause to he made, a
|u(l and perfect enumeration and description of all persons resident
within my didrift, and return the fame to the Prelident of the
United States, agreeably to the dtreftions of an ast of Congress,
entitled, " An ast providing for the enumeration of the inhabit
tants of the United States," according t the bed of my ability."
The oath or affirmation of an Aflillant (hall be, " I, A. B. do so
lemnly swear (or affirm) that I will make a just and perfect enu
meration and description of all persons resident within the diviH
on assigned to me, by the Marshal of the diftrift of and
make due return thereof to the said Marlhal, agreeably to the di
reftionsof an ast of Congress, entitled, " An ast providing for
the enumeration of the inhabitants of the United States," accord
ing to the bed of my ability. The enumeration (hall commence
on the firll Monday in August next, and (hall close within nine
calendar moi.rlit thereafter: the several Afliftants (hall, within
ihe said nine months, transmit to the Marlhals by whom they (hall
be refpeftively appointed, accurate returns of all persons, except
Indians not taxed, within their refpeftive divisions, which re
turns (hall be made in a fchcdule, didinguilhing the several fami
lies by the names of their mailer, mistress, steward, overseer, or
other principal person therein, in mauner following, that is to
fay :
The number of persons within my division, confiftingof
appears in a schedule hereunto annexed, fubferibed by me, this
day of onethoufand fevrn hundred and ninety
A. B. Afliftant to the Marshal of
Schedule of thr whole Number of Persons within the Di
Names of heads of families.
And be it further enacted,
return, or making a falfe re
(Hal, within the time by thi
two hundred dollars.
And be it further enacted, that the Marshals (hall file the seve
ral returns aforefaid, with the clerks ot their refpcftive diftrift
courts, who are hereby directed to receive and carefully prefcrve
the fame : And the Marihals refpeftively (hall, on or before the
fir 11 dav of September, one thousand seven hundred and ninety
one, transmit to the President of the United States, the aggregate
1 mount of each description of persons within their refpeftive dif
trifts. And every Mai (hal failing to file the returns of his Aflift
ant, or any of them, with the clerks of their refpeftive diftrift
courts, or failing to return the aggregate amount of each descrip
tion of persons in their refpeftive diftrifts, as the fame (hall ap
pear from said returns,to the President of the United States.with
in the time limited by this ast, (hall, for every such offence,
forfeit »the sum of eight hundred dollars; all which forfeitures
lhall be recoverable in the courts of the dillrift*. where theofferices
(hall be committed, ©r in the circuit courts to be held within the
ivifion allotted
<« A. B.
s'^
-«
? " *
S • i
a-g.3
>
O
5-
n>
*T3
&
3
x
Z 7
2 3
f e.
s
ft)
ST
«•
e
9
Cu
n
i_
xS
2
5-x
S.S
"i 7
u 2
3 3
2.
sr. ST
(■» M
S* "
5'
0
c
1
2, c §•
«-o
3 2J j»,
— cu JT
TS'i* "
•j> o
ST. n
<■» «
S* "
5'
0
c
1
s'ffv
D- *
c rt
a. 2
1 S3
ery Assistant failing to make
if enumeration to the Mar
ited, {ball forfeit the sum of
, Thate
:turn of tl
is ast limi
£>uus.
amc, by a&ion of debt, information or Lndi&ment; the one half
t ereot to the use of the United States, and the other half to the
! n . ori ? cr » where the prosecution shall be firft inftitutrd on
behalf of the United States, the whole (hall accrue to their ufi.
And for the more effectual discovery ofotfenccs, the judges of
the leveral Dtflrift Courts, at their next feflions, to be Iteld after
the expiration of the time allowed for making the returns of the
cnurneration hereby directed, to the President of the Unit* d States,
all give this a£l in charge to the Graod Juries, in their rclpec
tive courts, and shall cause the returns of the several Afiiftanu 10
be laid before them, for their in(pe&ion.
And be it further ena&ed, That every Afliftant (hall receive at
the rate of one dollar for every one hundred and fifty persons by
him returned, where such persons reside in the country ; and where
such persons reside in a city, or town, containing more ti.an five
thouland persons, such Afliftant shall receive at the rate of one
dollar, for every three hundred persons; but where, from the
difpeifed situation of the inhabitants in some divisions, one dollar
for every one hundred and fifty persons Ihall be inefficient, the
Marshals, with the approbation of the Judges of their refpe&ive
diftri&s, may make iuch further allowance to the Afliftants in
such diviftons, as shall be deemed an adequate compensation, pro
vided the fame does not exceed one dollar for every fifty persons
by them returned. The several marshals shall receive as follows i
the Marshal of the diftri£t of Maine, two hundred dollars ; the
maifhal of the diftrift of New-Hampshire, two hundred dollars ;
the marshal of the diftnft of Massachusetts, three hundred dol
lars ; the marshal of the diflrift ot Connecticut, two hundred dol
lars ; the marshal of the diflrift of New-York, three hundred
dollars ; the marshal of the diflnft of New-Jersey, two hundred
dollars ; the marshal of the diflrift of Pennsylvania, three hun
dred dollars; the marshal of the diiUitt of Delaware, one Hun-,
dred dollars ; the marshal of the djflrift of Maryland, three hun
dred dollars; the marshal of the diftrift of Virginia, five hun
dred dollars; thr marshal of the diftrift of Kentucky, two hun
dred and fifty dollars ; the marshal of the diftrift ot North-Ca
rolina, three hundred and fifty dollars; the marshal of the di f
tri& of South-Carolina, three hundred dollars ; the marshal of tie
diftrift of Georgia, two hundred and fifty dollars. And to ob
viate all doubts which may arise refpetting the persons to be re
turned and the manner of making rciurns.
Be it ena&ed, that every person whose usual place of abode fha I
be in any family on the aforefaid lfl Monday inAuguftnext, shall
be returned as of such family ; and the name of every perfon,who
shall be an inhabitant of any diflri£fc, but without a fettled olace
of residence, shall be inserted in the column of the aforefaid sche
dule, which is allotted for the heads of families, in that division
where he or she shall be on the said lfl Monday in Augufl next-r
---and every person occasionally ablent at the time of the enumera
tion, as belonging to that place in which he usually resides in the
United States.
And be it furtherenafted, Thatcachand every person more than
(ixteen years ot age, whether heads of families or not, belonging
to any family'within any division of a diftrift made or etlabliihrd
within the United States, (hall be, and hereby is obliged to render
to such Aflidant of the division, a true account if required, to the
bell of his or her knowledge, of all and every person belonging
to such family refpeftively, according to the several delcriptions
aforefaid, on pain of forfeiting twentv dollars, to be iurd fc/r.and
recovered by such Affidant, the one half for his own use, and the
other half for the use of the United States.
And be it further ena&ed, That eachJAfliflant (hall, previous to
making his return to the Marshal, cause a correct copy, signed by
himfelf, of the schedule, containing the number of inhabitants
within his division, to be set up at two of the moil publ : c placcs
within the fame, there to remain for the infpe£tio n of all concern
ed ; tor each of which copies the said Afliftant (hall be entitled to
reccive two dollars, provided proof of a copy of the schedule
having been so let up and fuffered to remain, Ihjll be transmitted
to the Marshal, with the return of the number of persons ; and in
cafe any Afliftant shall fail to make such proof to the Marshal, he
lhall forfeit the compensation by this a£l allowed him.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Reprefentativcs.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-PreJident of the United States.
' and Prejidcnt of the Senate.
Approved, March the id, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON. Prelident of the United States.
ONE of the fineft instances of the sublime we ever heard of, is
not as we imagine, any where recorded : George the Se
cond was at Drury-lane Theatre, when the Culloden dispatches
were prelented to him, from the Dukeof Cumberland, his darling
lon. All was anxiety and apprehension. The inllant his Majesty
had opened them, he started up while the tears streamed from
his eyes, and in some glorious ejaculation, thankea his God and
announced the vittory. Garrick in a moment caught the trans
porting found. The Orchestra, by his orders, struck up " Goi>
save great George our King !" and the whole audience in
a wild enthusiasm, joined the chorus.
Oft
r»
tm
AN old soldier, one Jean Chevauch: otherwifc Dupont,
aged near 100 years, has enrolled himfelf in the second com
pany of the Burgeois militia at Bonetable, and has mounted guard
several times since, in a manner which proves he has not forgot the
trade he had left near 70 years. He served at the defence of Lisle,
in 1708, and was at the battle of Malplaquet, in 1709. He has
been married twice, had 27 children, and appears to be yet very
distant from terminating his earthly career.
A JT AJ OR Pigget, who is not only one of the liveliest wits, but
i-VX one of the pleafanteft Punsters in Ireland, —being on avi
fit to the late Duke of Leinfter, at Carton, paid a morning's atten
dence to Mr. Conolly, at Caftletown, who was then very deep on
the turf, and the morning was principally spent in examining and
admiring the stud of his ("porting host.
On his leturnto Carton, the Duke, after pleasantly interrogat
ing the Major on his morning's amufement,propofed (hewing him
his stud, which confided of about 50 monstrous bullocks, (lall
feeding for market.
14 Well Major," fays the Duke, " which do you like better my
stud or my friend Conolly's?" " Your Grace's" replied the Major
" and I am Cure they will all come in for Jlcaks and plates before
any of his."
And pofleflion given the Ift of April, for one or more years, (two
miles and half from this city, on the Greenwich road,)
HPHAT New TWO STORY HOUSE—four
Rooms on a floor ; with fix fire places; a new Barn, and
Well of excellent Water ; a young Orchard of Fruit Trees, with
acres of Land, thetr.oft part Meadow. For particulars enquire
at No. 7, Maiden-Lane. New-York, February 20.
PRICfc fHREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
ANECDOTE OF GEORGE 11.
BON MOT.
To be LET,CONGRESS.
HOUSE O¥ REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, FEB. jg.
In Committee of the whole, on the Report of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Madison's motion Jor a difcrimination,Jiill under confidcration.
MR. Gerry rofc after Mr. Livermore, and observed that it
was with great concern he Humid express his sentiments on
a fubjc£t so impoitant in its consequences : that after mature de
liberation he had formed an opinion ; and that should arguments
hereafter against it, he should think it confiiient not
only with honesty, but with honor, to alter that opinion, and
freely declare it.
The amendment, he said, proposed by the gentleman from
Virginia, differed from the proportion before the committee in
other points, befidcs that of discrimination ; and he proposed, as
an amendment to the amendment, to Arike out all that related to
this question, that the sense of the committe may be fairly afcer
taincd, " Whether there shall be a discrimination between the
original and afligned holders of public Securities."
Mr. Gerry dated, that the foundation of the motion for a dis
crimination was the heavy losses sustained by our brave and ve
teran soldiers, in the falc of their public Securities. Little or no
thing, he said, had been urged in favor of meritorious officers,
and of citizens who, by the loan of their property, had contribu
ted to the support of the war, and much less of aflignees ; al
though he could fee no reason why equal justice should not be
done to these two clafles of original creditors. To form a judg
ment, then said he, of the foundation of the motion for a discri
mination, let us advert to the history of the army, and we shall
find that their firfl enlistments expired at the end of 1775 ; that
the commander in chief, not being able to re-inlift the soldiers,
was reduced almofttothe necefltty of abandoning the extensive
lines in the vicinity of Boston ; that notwithstanding this, such
•were the prejudices in favor of Ihort enlistments, and such the
dread of a standing army, that were obliged to enlist the
Second aimy for one year, and their times of service expired at
or about the end of 1776. During that campaign Congress were
so fully convinced of the fatal confequcnces- of Such policy, as, at
all events, to determine that the next enliftmcnt should be for the
war ; but they were afterwards constrained to provide the alterna
tive, or for three years, and those who enlisted for this term left
the army in 1780. We shall also find that, in 1 780, the army was
greatly reduced, and the states earncftly called on to recruit their
refpe&i-e regiments; but Such were the profpefts of gain, from
privateering and other measures—Such had been the Sufferings of
the army, and So little was the confidence in public faith—as to
require enormous bounties in Specie, and the mode of clafiing,
fftr obtaining recruits : the average of bounty in many ftatcs was
250 dollars, in fpecic, and in Maflachufetts upwards of 280. Thus,
then, if we divide the army into Sour clafles, it will appear that
the Soldiers of the firft and Second clafles were discharged and ful
ly paid, in 1775 and 1776; that the soldiers oS the third claSs,
who inlifled for the war between 1777 and 1780, Served fix, five,
or four years, without any other proSpcft of reward than the sti
pulations of Congress ; and that the fourth class, some of whom
Served two and an half years, others two years, and others one,
were amply paid by bounties, the least of which amounted to 100
dollars a year, or 8J dollars a month, in Specie, exclusive of the
allowance made by CongreSs. The third and fourth clafles were,
.however entitled, by their contra£l, to 6J dollars in Specie, per
month, or to an equivalent, exclusive of bounties, rations, and
cloathing; and how has the been fulfilled ?
He then referred to a memorial of the officers and soldiers of
the army, stating their grievances to Congress, in April, 1785;
and hkewiSe a reSolve 0? CongreSs of July in the Same year, tor
liquidating the accounts of the army, and for ifluing certificates
which would then produce but 2s. 6d. in the pound, for the ba
lance due to each officer and Soldier.
Mr. Gerry then asked, Is this a fulfilment of the contract ?
Was ever such a brave army, was ever any army, so paid before?
If then the contra& has not been fulfilled, ought not the party,
failing to do this, to indemnify the party who have fuflained
damages ? Jufticc may be in favor of the fourth class ; but juflice,
generosity, and humanity, plead loudly for the third class, the
amount of whose demands will not exceed 2000000 dollars.
The question then is, Who ought, in juflice, to make good
these losses of the soldiery ? Some gentlemen fay, those who pur
chased their certificates : On what principle ? From their having
received them without an equivalent. Let us attend to the na
ture of the contrast of the soldiers with theailignees ; for it dif
fers widely from that with Congress. Some gentlemen consider
it in the nature of a specialty or bond, and have carried us to
courts of law, to prove that whatever has been paid fliort of the
nominal value of the certificates, is now due from the aflignees.
This mode of reasoning is inadmiflible, particular deci
sions of law courts cannot apply to great national queflions ; and
the legislature is authorised to regulate such courts, and is not to
be regulated by them. But if admiflible, is the transfer of a fol
dier'scertificate in the nature of an afllgned specialty? For, if
not. arguments on this principle will fall to the ground, and we
shall be again si eed from courts of law.
'Mr. Gerrv then shewed what a bond was, according to the
law-definition of it, and that a certificate differed from it ; as in
the latter there was ao condition of performance, or seal, and in
the transfer no indorsement is necessary. The title, he said, of an
assignee to a certificate was by a sale, which is " a transmutation
of property from one man to another, in confederation of some
value or recompence."
He further observed, that the public fccurities of the United
States are a species of flock or property, similar to merchandize;
they are fold in open market, and at the fnarket price, which is
always an equivalent : for the market price of flock, he said, was
regulated by the public opinion, and depended in a great mcafure
on ihc circumflances of the nation, and on events: It had always
been fubjeel to great variations, and ever would be whilst com
munities arc fubjeft to Calamities; and this is a quality infcparable
from that species of property. To illustrate his argument lie slated
two cases, the latter of which is as follows: —Suppofe that the pub
ifc debt was funded, and the flock at par; that a combination of
European powers had been fccrctly formed to subdue us ; that a
fleet, with a formidable army, had fuddeniy appeared on our
coafl, and that the enemy had landed before arrangements could
be made to resist them, aud had over-run half the country : Would
npt flock, under such circumflances be reduced in value? If a
ftockholdcr should insure his property in the funds, wpuld not
ihc policy be as valid againfl such an enemy, as any other policy
in time of war ?
. Let us fuppole that this calamity had raifcd the premium to 80
per cent, and the ftockholdcr had agreed to allow it, would not
the iafurer be justly entitled to it for Uking the risk ? But if the
IJ.ockholder, instead of giving the premium,had made faleof his
property at 80 per. cent.discount, being one fifth of its loi mer va
lue, would not that fifth be an equivalent and the sale valid ?
Where is the diifercnce, except merely the mode of negociating,
between insuring his property at 80 per cent, premium, and fel
ling it at 80 per cent, discount ? Or, where is the injufticc of the
measure in either cafe? But ftiould the enemy be expelled, and
stock again w par, can the original stockholder, in justice, demand
any part of the 80 per cent, premium, or of the 80 per cent, dis
count. on a prctence that he has not received an equivalent ? If
the whole had been loft, would he have returned the so per cent,
which he received of the infuier or purchaser ?—Surely riot: and
it must be evident that although the nominal was the real value of
tlock before tiie appearance and after therepulfe of the enemy, yet
Thai the value was rcduced by the danger of conquest, and tjiat the
market price at that period was an equivalent.
Several cases have been cited as prccedehts for IJciinnnatiug:
that which ielatt« to the reduction of the Canada bills, mentioned
by the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Madison) was by his own
acknow led lament not applicable. The cafe re* erred to in the ast
of Queen Ann, cited by the gentleman, was not analogous ; for,
independent of other confederations, the debt contracted by the
Queen for the support ot her houfhold was unliquidated, and by
a vote of the Houle of Commons had been dilallowed : Had the
debt been liquidated, and certificates of it illucd, as in the cale
of our loldiers, there would have been no interference of parlia
ment in the subsequent transfer of luch certificates, as their whole
conduit evinces.
Gentlemen, in favor of discrimination, have also mentioned the
South-Sea and Miliifippi schemes: The gentleman from New-
Jersey (Mr. Boudinot) had clearly (hewn that the conduct of par
liament in the South-Sea scheme was directly against discriminati
on ; for although they imprisoned the directors and others, and
confifcatcd their property, yet they never intcrpofed in the trans
fers of stock by other proprietors, although it was bought and fold
from par to 13 01 1400 per cent.
The history of the Mifrifippi scheme I propose not to state fully
but to mention a few particulars. In the year 1717 the govern
ment of France were deeply indebted, and had issued Hate bills
to the amount of feveial hundred millions of livres, they were
fold at 60 or 70 per cent, discount; and of France, de
sirous of appreciating them, established a commercial company
with the exclusive privilege of trading to the Milfiftppi, to confiit
of such as would fubferibe 60 millions payable in (late bills at par;
at firft there were few disposed to be concerned, but at length the
sum was fubferibed, the dock by another arret was increased to
100 millions; the farm of tobacco, amounting to 4 millions a
year, was then granted to the cofnpany as a fund to pay the mte
reft, and, under the direction of Mr. Law ? they made greater pro
fits from it. Stocks were thus enhanced from 70 per cent, below
to 20 per cent, above par. The India ani African companies
were afttrwards incorporated with the Miflifippi, whose capital
was further extended, by which means Hocks rose to 5 or 600,
and, in the progress of this matter, to 1000 per cent, at this pe
riod a fubfeription was opened for 50 millions of livres, at 10 for
1, payable at ten different payments; and so infatuated was the
nation, that the fubfeription in a few days amounted to 75 milli
ons, being half as much more as was wanted, and the day after
the fubfeription closed, those who had given 1000 fold for 2000
per cent. Wh«n the bubble burst, as it is expressed, no attempt
was made by government to interfere in the transfers made by in
dividuals, but all such transfers were valid.
From all which, I think it will appear that Itocks are, in their
nature, a fpeciesof property subjeCt to gr+at variations From cala
mities and other caufrs; that the market price will be regulated
by public opinion, and that it is always considered as an equiva
lent. A tfartifcr of property in the funds, at market price, dis
sert widely frott the gambling of ftuckjohhers', a perrticious fpe
ciet of traffick, of the nature of wagers or bets; and thole con
cerned therein have no property in the funds, and generally art
subjeCt to puni fitment.
Should enquiry be made, what calamity have we been under
to reduce so low the price of our stocks ? I answer, the calamity
of,a defective national government; the effaCti of which were fie—
verely felt. In 1780, Congress called on the ftatet to fink their
respeCtive proportions of the old paper money; part complied,
ana part did not. The consequence was, that in f>Bt the bubble
built, and alnioft ruined the public credit. Early in 1783, the
army, from want of pay, were nearly mutinying, and part of
them soon after 4id mutiny, and drove Congress from Philadel.
phia. Again—Congress, by the confederation, were authorised
to tax the ftatet on a valuation of their respeCtive property; but
the fUtet were unable to produce the documents required for for
ming that valuation, and refufed to adopt a new rule proposed by
Congress, who could therefore levy no tax. To evince an honeu
difpolttion, and to support public credit at far as poflible, Con
gress proposed the plan of impost, and supplementary funda: this
was accepted by (ome (tales, and violently oppofrd in othera,
which produced apprehension that a confiderabte part of the uni
on wished to apply the fpunge to the public debt. These circum
stances, and the consequent commotions, so weakened govern
ment, that we had no credit, public or private, at home or a
broad. By these and other calamities, and the load of our debt,
Were the stocks reduced, the public opinion fixed their rates, and
taking the ri(k, they were worth no more; but circumftancet are
now altered, and they are increased in value.
Gentlemen, to support discrimination, have charged aflignees
with fraud. Are the aflignees chargeable for the defeClt of the
confederation ? Or for a non-compliance of some of the states with
the requifitiont for finking the old bills of credit ? Or for the mu
tinying of part of the army ? Or for defeating the plan of the im
post and fupiileincntary funds ? Or for the consequent commo
tions ? Or did the assignees deceive the original holders ? Did
they ast the part of sharpers and fwindlert? If so, bring the cul
prit* to justice ; ypur country demands it. But if their only crime
it good foitune in their negociationt, if they have purchased the
securities in open market, and honestly paid for them, treat them
as good citizens, acquit them of fraud, and do them justice. Be
ing among those original holders who have transfered part of their
certificates, and not replaced them, 1 can feel for myfelf at well
as for our brave soldiers, but am against discrimination. So much
for the justice of the measure: Let us now consider the policv
of it. '
It is admitted on alliidtt that the preservation of public faith ia
indifoenfable to the welfare of the Union, and in what does it
consist ? Public faith, aa I conceive, confilts in a punctual fulfil,
ment of engagements and contrads on the part of government.
To prcferve public faith, therefore, it is necessary that a nation
mould have adequate refourcea, the government adequate powers,
and those who adminitler it, integrity and abilities. That our re-
I fourcej art equal to the payment of our debts has not been denied,
that Congress have not fufneient power, I presume none will alTert.
The pfcfervation, then, of public faith, will principally depend
on their integrity and abilities. Their abilities may not be ques
tioned; but their conduit in this cafe will be critically examined
and tried By the standard of morality : If it will Hand the ted,
they will have the confidence of the people j but if not, vain will
be every attempt to eftablifli public crcdit. For this is nothing
but the confidence of the people in public faith, and the people
will think that, whatever refourcet they may have, or power to
change thfc form of government, the defective principles of their
; rulers can only be corrected by tile Sovereign of the Universe. Is
-it gpod policy, then, to reft the public faith on an a£t of discrimi
nation, which is intended to saddle one class of citiiens with a tax
to repair the loss which another clafe has fuitained by a breach of
contrafl on the part of the public ? this will wear the appear.
, ancc of committing one fraud to cure another. The right offpe
culatori to purfchale certificates, at the market price, i»undoubted
and their conduct in makingthe purchafea and payments is unex-'
ceptionable; but if there was a doubt ofthis, in regard to some
would it be fufficient ground for a discrimination ? '
Again, the whole expence of the war is supposed to be about
one hundred 76 millions dollars,of which there is now due about
80000000 dollars, exdunve of 2000000 supposed to be due to the
third class of soldiers. Is it good policy by funding the debt to
do every thing neccflary for the support of public credit, except
making payment of 2006000 dollars,and then, at the risk of public
credit, by an ast of discrimination, to save tlie sum last mentioned
which is but one ciphty-eighth part of the expence of the war ? '
But how are we to obtain loans in future ? Some centlcmeii
conceive the eflablilhment of our funds will always precede the
loans : Can any gentleman insure this t I conceive not There
is not a nation in Europe so happily circi.mftanced ; and if an un
funded debt Ihould ogam be requiiite, who will lend when vour
unfunded fecunties cartnot be transferred, hay- tfta
-378-
blifhed a precedent for diferimination ? it unt evident, liie:>.
the propofttion is pregnant with ruinous eonfequences t
k If enquiry be made what is to be done with the fuffcring f.>l
jdicrs } I anlwer, Paytheril, if yourfuuds are fufficient; if not,
allure them you will do it as soon as funds can be provided. Ir
hat -been suggested, that they have relinquilheti to the public seven.
■eighths of their property : If they have, I think it unjust to accept
it. But is this the fad ? Would they not have received the whole
of tfleir liquidated (lenrtiftfs in fpccfe, hatfit been offered ?''Thcn'
can be no reason to doubt of this. Some gentlemen fay, th_-y with
to compound tb* matter, between the ioldiera and their alttgneet,
because we cannot pay both,; Would not a composition, on'fuch
principles, be a declaration of national bankruptcy? And Hull
the United States, with 3000000 inhabitants, with the molt ffat
terin£ prospeCts arifinrfrom the increase of commerce, husbandry
and manufactures, with such an extensive territory, and in the vi.
gor of their youth, declare bankruptcy for a debt, including the
federal, state, and foreign loans, not exceeding 80000000 dollars,
or 18000000 fterl. when Great Britain, with only 8 millions of
inhabitants, can fund a debt of *40 millions fterl. ? I hope not—
and consenting to such a measure, would never acknowledge my
fellan American.
Some gentlemen have referred us to the ast of Congress for scal
ing the continental currency, to prove both the policy and juilicc
of a discrimination. Let us examine that matter : Congress, fronfc
the commencement of the war to Feb. 1781, were but a meeting
of State Commifliotiers, without any form of government or pow
ers, except such as were containedjin theirdifcordant com millions.
From April 1775, to the end of 1779, they supported the war by
artificial credit: At that period they had lfTued 200000000 of pa
per ddllars, and borrowed 35000000 of dollars on loan office cer
tificates, which were afterwards reduced to 11000000 ; they had
borrowed all they coukl in Europe, and were reduced to the ne
ccflity of {topping emiflions, and of depending on the States for
monthly supplies of 15000000 of depreciated dollars, and on do
mestic loans. In March, 1780, the proposed taxes and loans fail
ed ; emifTionson the former plan were at an end, and Congress
were reduced to the neceflity of scaling the old debt, to fink it, and
of beginning anew, or of giving up the cause ; Sad alternative !
to violate the public faith or be ennaved. They chose the fonner,
but aimed to do all poflible justice. Indeed they had one reason
for fcaliug bills of credit, which applies not to the liquidated debt.
The public did not receive the value of the former, but did of the
latter, according to the nominal sums ; and had each emiflion been
scaled according to its value when HHicd, the public would pro
bably have been better fatisfied, but having reduced the old bills
from 40 to 1, did Congress attempt to refcale them when they funk,
to 1000 fori ? Ordiathey provide that original holders, who
patted continental money for less than they received it, should be
reimbursed by the aflignees ? If not, the precedent is against dif*
crimination. Indeed if the precedent favored such a measure, it
is admitted by the grntleman who produced it to have been a vio
lation of faith, and is therefore a bad precedent, which can never
fanftify a bad ast, or alter the eternal rules of justice. Becaule
then Congress, in adiftrefting war, without a form of government,
and at the end of their resources, violated faith, can we, on a prin
cipal of policy, in a profound peace, with a strong government,
and fufficient resources, be juftified in taking a mealure which
promises so little advantage ; and which may involve such danger
ous confequenccs ? If this measure is adopted, what isto be done
with them who have given Congress a dollar in public securities
for an acre of land, such as you will now fell for one fifth of a
dollar in the fame securities. Ought jot Congress, on their own
principle , as the alTignce of the purchaser, to reimburse four-ftfths
of this property ? But what security, will a speculator in land
have, who may purchase of an original proprietor, that when the
value of the land is enhanced, afimilar discrimination will not be
made ? And who, thus circumstanced, will purchase your lands.
With refpeft to the practicability of difcrirainating, gentlemen
in favor of the measure have not removed the objections of those
who are against it, and have only said provition must be made in
certain cases, wkhout explaining. It has been said, if the latter
will unite with the former, the difficulties, altho great, may be
removed ; but no effort can make a measure prafticablc, which is
impracticable. Such attempts tend to weaken government, and
to bring the laws intocontetnpt, as we havte Teen in regulating acts.
Public opinion has been mentioned as an argument in favor of
the plan. I have the highest refpeft for the public opinion, but
have not argued on this ground : First, bccaufe in the present
cafe we know not the public opinion; and secondly bccaufe con
jecture is endless and ufrlefs. Indeed, :n great national concerns,
the public will generally form their opinions by the proceeding*
of the Legislature, because the latter have a more general view of
matters, and the best means for forming a judgment. If on the
whole, then, thejuftice* policy, or practicability of the measure,
was only inqueffion, ought we to accept it. But when we are*
doubtful of all, ought we not to reject the proposition !
Mr. Bland seconded Mr. Ger r y's motion. He said he was
apprehensive the idea of discrimination had already worked
mifchief. He then explained the fallacy and injustice of such a
meafure 1 , which he thought had been clearly proved to the I.oufe
and afligned among other reasons its impracticability, which if
there were ninety nine reasons for it, that in itfclf was fufficicnt'to
make him vote against the amendment.
Holders will come to the treasury and demand payment • there
they mult deposit their certificate, and there they must l'ie un
r c . an , hc obta, ncd. The fame inconvenience will arise
£ Pe u"V im "f : _, fu PP ofe » creditor, ,f the amendment
should pais, was obliged to look for proofs, where must he feck
? s ravc - bc V" nd the sea, in A,la ! Suppose a creditor
was unwilling to comply with this law, vou must then pass another
la.v to compel him to deposit his security.
The question had not been aufwered to liis fati.faa.on, and he
frail not have risen were it not on account of the point ot a.!cn
initiation, lb Which fie had always entertained an aversion, as in
volving the lof. of that moll valuable and intflimable jewel Pub-
Lie Credit,
C °, m T t , hi ' br "<i of public faith, itwould belittle better
than the tender law« of Rhode-Ifiand. Ko doubt some of the
Mr C Blind nhf .ST"! P tJni(hmenl . others are innocent.
Mr. Bland observed that he was no speculator ■ ■ 1
securities therefore the decision could L'^hJTi.
hardly a state in the union that willies for any discrimination If
U if CC k Un " " C '° be all reck oned, what a day of reekomne
would that be, to travel back and issue frelh uotel fit wouTtf
Z f n d "T tS ' In ftort - th "< appeared so muchTnt, cacy
and difficulty that it was utterly impossible and impr.Lable £
[Sow; explanations with Ttfh,a to ortkr then took bin,. if
' «/
lafthe h»a 1 x°r e anc ! obfervecl . tl'at on Friday
last he had laid before the committee a motion for
dlfcrin,i " ati on -between original hold
hlifl.* asl 'gnees of public securities, and forefta
bli/hingafcale of depreciation of those securities •
this motion he afterwards thought proper o
St r »C«:i, o °? nhe^ onr,de ™ i °nW«™-
ed it altogether impratfticable, and because lie
was not convinced that such a measure washoneft
SInkMJSf TS PUbll ' C faith - He did Tot
A, rJVh a^ lber , f y to g' lve it his support.
Btfrk ft Ur u" be^ re the "mmittee, Mr.
than i * consider it in no other view
than as a question, Whether we lhall commit abreach ofpublic faith with thedoulefiic creditors
of the United States, and violate thole l'olemn
promises, so often repeated in appeals and pro
clamations to the people by the late government,
and a promise or engagement which has been rei
terated by the new constitution ? In his opinion
it required no profound skill, in politics or finance,
to answer the question : it is only consulting the
dictates of common faith and common honelty,
which command nations as well as individuals to
fulfil their engagements.
The United States have repeatedly pledged
themselves, in terms plain as language can ex
press, to pay to the bearer a fpecific sum : and to
commit a violation of this promise appeared to
liim both unjufl and impolitic. If the United
States are able to perforin it, they ought to do so.
He believed and hoped that they had the ability ;
and even in the cafe of inability, he was of opi
nion, should bankrutptcyitfelfenfue from the ho
uorable attempt to do juitice, this would be pre
ferable to a stain cast upon these states, at the com
mencement of their political career, by a cool and
deliberate a<st of public injullice to their creditors.
America has eltablifhed in the world a high mili
tary character : let her but perform her engage
ments, and she will also establish a national cha
racter of honor and fair dealing. This will be to
her as a real and fubltantial treasure, which she
will be able to transmit, like a fair inheritance,
to her children. Should we, on the other hand,
pollute her, by fuffering her to commit a breach
of honor, it will be such a public calamity as no
money can compensate.
Mr. Burke then offered a few observations, in
anfwerto those gentlemen who were Co urgent in
favor of the motion. They had advanced that
the officers andjfoldiers have not been fully paid.
The gentleman from Virginia [Mr. Madison] has
said that, without the discrimination which he
offers, we {hall be railing monuments of gratitude,
not to our officers and I'oldiers who fought for us,
but to those who speculated on their securities.
On this, Mr. Burke remarked, that it is to be la
mented, when our army was dilbanded, the de
rangement of our affairs put it out of our pow
er to pay them in specie. The states, however,
did every thing in their power to provide for
their soldiers. The state of S. Carolina gave
them bounties in lands, and the warrants, and
grants forthefe lands were pafledthrough differ
ent offices without the usual fees. North-Caroli
na, Virginia, and otherjftates, gave similar boun
ties, he believed, without mentioning the lands
appropriated for them by the United States. He
would not fay that the foldierg have been reward
ed, for what reward can be adequate [to their
great services ? But he infilled that the people of
America have not been unmindful of those servi
ces. If we, for a moment, confiderthe conduit
of the people towards one part of the army (the
officers) we shall find that America has signally
displayed her gratitude towards them, from the
commander in chief down to the ensign. The il
luilrous leader of her armies retiring from the
field to private life, ihe again raifedto the eleva
ted llation of a fovcriign prince ! Through what
motives ? From gratitude for his splendid servi
ces. View the high departments of the general
government ; look into the several offices ; enter
the several custom houses from the northern to the
southern extremity of the continent : there we
fliall find conspicuous inltances of gratitude.
Let us now fee how the people regard the offi
cers of the army in the different ltates. In S.
Carolina, no other class of citizens Hand any
chance in competition with officers ; they are
promoted to thejflations of governor, lieutenant
governor, privy counsellor? j they are to be found
presiding in the tribunals of justice, in the legis
latures, and on the floor of Congrels j and the
gratitude of the people follows them in the pri
vate walks and ordinary occupations of life.
They arejuftly held in love and veneration ; and
if the future historian of America records the
truthand nothing but the truth,he must raise last
ing monuments, both of the illustrious services of
the officers of the army, and of the gratitude and
love of the people for those services. This, Mr.
Burke said, he mentioned in answer, or rather
defence of the people, and to clear them from
the charge of ingratitude.
It is urged, in favor of discrimination, that a
few (peculators will make princely fortunes. This,
he said, was a circumstance which he sincerely
regretted ; as he did likewise regret thefpecula
tions now carrying on, from this city and other
places, in the Hate of South-Carolina—the fend
ing pilot-boats secretly from New York to Charles
ton, while the people there were alleep, as it were,
and totally unacquainted with the councils or
■views of aduiiniftration, with information on the
one fide only : this he thought a hard cafe. But
the speculators availing themselves of this and
a variety of other advantages, could not, he laid,
juftify him in his own mind, in giving a votethat
would give a stab to the good faith and credit of
a nation in whose councils he had the honor of a
fuffvage.
He forefaw, however, a still greater misfor
tune, in this bufinefSj than that of a few specula
tors aggrandizing them!elves by our funding sys
tem : it is, th.it aur public securities mill go into the
hands of foreigners. The present system, offered
by the Secretary, is actually mortgaging these states
to foreign speculators, for the amount of the
debt : for the holders will fell, as they have al
ready fold, iuunenfe funis to foreigners, to raise
ready money. Few of our citizens poiieffing
monied capitals, ready money will yieldVar
ter emoluments, employed in commerce or agri
culture, than when lodged in the funds. This
is a calamity which he lamented from his foul :
but, upon a most serious consideration upon the
fhbjed:, he was not clear but a forfeiture of pub
lic faith, a loss of public credit, would be for
America a far greater calamity. He entertained
strong apprehensions, that parting with the fair
inheritance of public faith and public honor,
under any pretext, would be acting the part of
him who fold his inheritance for a mess of pot
tage. Viewing the fubjedl in this light, he said
he could not, he dared not vote in favor of the
motion.
He also mentioned another ground whereon he
opposed it : the scheme of a discrimination ap
peared totally impracticable. Coinmiffioners
must be appointed, not only in different states,
but in different places of the fame state. If coin
miffioners are appointed, for instance, in Charles
ton, the citizens must attend from the reinoteft
part of the ltate, and be worried in travelling
backwards and forwards to seek for witnefTes,
many of whom may be dead or removed into
other countries—not to mention the length of
time and enormous expence which so complicat
ed a business must occasion.
Mr. Burke concluded by declaring it to be his
opinion, that the proposition, if agreed to, would
throw things into confufion and perplexity, which
he could not fee the extent of : he fliould there
fore oppose it.
TUKSDA Y, FEB. 33.
In committee of the whole on the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury—the following resolu
tion under debate, viz.—" Resolved that per
manent funds ought to be appropriated for the
payment of interell on, and the gradual discharge
of the domestic debt of the United States."
Mr. Livermore—This proportion is of A very
extenlive nature—of which the committee have
at present no adequate idea—l do not learn that
the creditors have applied to Congress to pay
them ; we do not know what the States are doing
in the business ; we have an arduous task to pro
vide for the debt of the union—The State debts
are unascertained, we do not|know their merits or
amount—there are commissioners appointed to
fettle accounts between the United States and in
dividual States ; we ought therefore to suspend
all proceedings on the fubje<st, for the present
—and if it cannot be palled over, I hope the re
solution will be rejected.
Mr. Lawrance in favor of the motion, observ
ed that the ail'umption of the State debts, may be
considered as a measure favorable to the States
as the revenue collected through one medium
will be more productive, and less liable to oppress
the people than when collected through various
and opposing channels—He adverted to the ne
cefllty of a uniformity in the excise ; the States
are repealing their excise laws—and the making
provision for these debts must devolve upon the
union ; he replied to Mr. Livermore's objection
from the amounts not being known, by faying
that the Secretary has ascertained this amount
with such precision that there is 110 probability of
its being more than 2 J millions dollars—it is
likely to fall below that sum—the exact amount
may be known in season—but from the returns
actually received it is pretty evident that the el
timate of those States not received, is rated full
high—he entered into a consideration of the pre
sent state of those debts, the merit of the credit
ors, the necessity of a settlement of the debts of
the refpetlive States—and the improbability of
this being done while matters remain in their
present situation. He advocated the measure
from motives of policy and justice, and as hold
ing out the only prospect left to the State credit
ors ; their acquiescence in the measure is to be ex
pected, and the plan is calculated upon that idea ;
he hoped therefore that the committee would a
dopt the resolution, as at present he saw no objec
tion of any weight to taking it up at this time—
he ihould however hear with pleasure the obfer
■vations of gentlemen upon the subject.
Mr. Ames wished that the harmony which has
prevailed, may be preserved—he prefuined for a
variety of reasons that the consideration of the
assumption of the State debts would not be poft
poned—for if it should, it would alter the whole
face of the subject before the committee, and the
report of the Secretary would be no longer be
fore us, but we fliould be wondering from idea to
idea without having any definite objedl. Except
the State debts Ihould be afl'umed, the revenue
contemplated by the Secretary cannot be justly
affunied, as it has special reference to this objetft.
Mr. Sherman was in favor of the afliimption,
after a proper difcriininatioti was made between
debts incurred for the general defence, and those
-379-
which had refpscl to the particular interest bt
particular States, and iu which the union was not
interelted ; he thought the committee might now
adopt the general reiolution, as provision, ac
cording to the Secretary's plan, is to be a future
business.
Mr. Stone contended that the general govern
ment would acquire an undue influence, and the
State governments would be annihilated by the
meal are—he objected to the mode of raising re
venue by inipoit as operating very unjustly and
unequally : lie then adverted particularly to the
fubjedt of ailiinsption, and laid, that he very
much doubted the right of the United States to
adopt the debts of the individual States—he went
on the fuppolition that these debts Were not in
curred on the account of the United States ; and
if the United States ihould proceed upon this
principle there is no calculating the extent of tax
ation.—The debts of the several States are ex
ceedingly various as to their merits and relative
value—the paper of the several States is very va
riously and oppositely estimated.—He thenpoint
ed out the difficulties which would rei'ult from
the measure from the different plans of policy
adopted by the States, and the creditors them*
selves, by which the laws of Congress would not
have a uniform operation—lt would produce this
evil, the States would be taxed by their own le
gislatures as high as they could go for the pur
ses of internal legislation—and at the fame time,
the general government wouldjbe extending taxa
tion as far as they 'can carry it for the exigencies
of the union. He observed the committee had
gone on with a celerity of which he had not con
ceived—the business he had supposed would have
taken up a longer time for discussion—the dcci
fions of the committee are of the highest impor
tance ; I do not fee the necessity of precipitating
the present queftion.—lf we move with caution
in this great business we may give full fatisfac
tion, and may receive the hearty concurrence of
our conllituents—but if we haltily adopt mea
sures, which may be contrary to their feelings,
we lhall meet with opposition and difficulty in
carrying our measures into effect,
Mr. Sherman replied particularly to Mr. Stone.
He said that both the general and slate govern
ments were founded on the people—and there
could be no danger in strengthening both govern
ments, and veiling them with full powers to the
limits of their Constitutions. The several States
arc free, sovereign, and independent, as to all the
purposes of their domestic regulation—and there
can be no doubt that the people will be pleased
with every measure adopted by Congress, agreea
ble to the Conftitution,from which they derive ad
vantages. If they exceed the line of the constitu
tion, the people will chufe others which shall pro
pose such alterations as may be found neceflarv.
He could fee no difficulty from clashing juris
dictions in the measure ; on the other hand, he
conceived it the most effectual way to prevent it.
He doubted not that the state creditors would fee
their interest in acceding to the measure; he was
opposed to a postponement; the plan is not to be
immediately adopted, and as there will be fuffici
ent time allowed for every arrangement, he hoped
the committee would now decide the question.
Mr. Burke entered into a consideration of the
rife and progress of the debt of South-Carolina,
and from a series of particulars endeavored to
shew that their debt was incurred on account of*
the general defence, and he thought it ought to
be lo considered, but still he had his doubts ref
pedting thepropriety of afluming those debts the
present session—he thought it aljfurd to engage
to pay debts when we do not know their amount,
nor the abilities of the United States.
Mr. Gerry adverted to the conflitution, to as
certain whether the ail'umption was compatible
therewith ; and found that it was perfectly con
fident, as the debts were incurred for the general
defence. The states were as agents on the part
of the continent. The states and the general go
vernment are as one great machine,inwhich small
wheels are as neceflary as large, demolish one,
and you destroy the whole. If the state debts
ihould not be afl'umed, a clamor will be raised a
gainst the state governments for not doing jus
tice, and the people will consider them as op
prelliire; they will diminifli in the estimation
of the particular citizens. If the general go
vernment ihould hereafter oppress the states,
they will be in a better situation to defend
themselves, being out of debt, than if in debt ;
for out of debt, out of danger. He expati
ated on the policy of the measure, and the
fruitful source of disunion and discord, which
would result from opposing and clashing systems
of revenue and excise. He was in favor of a full
compliance with the contract to the State creditor ;
their claims are equally well founded with those
of the creditors of the union—the object was the
fame—the services the fame, and justice plead
as urgently for them, as for the other.
Mr. Goodhue, Mr. Fitzfimons, and Mr. Smith,
spoke ill favor of the proposition.
Mr. Lawrance, moved that the committee
fliould rife and report progress.
(To be continued,)tCONGRESS
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1790.
MR. Vi n1 n g took his feat this day.—The bill
to promote theprogrefs of the ufeful arts,
■was brought in engrolled, read the third time,and
ordered to lie on the table till to morrow.
The bill to accept of the ceflion of lands in the
weltern territory, by theftate of North Carolina
■was read the second time and refered to a commit
tee of the whole lioufe.
The resolve of the Senate for giving further
inftru£tions to the collectors of the revenue was
read the second time.
This resolution enjoins a compliance with the
llate infpetftion laws previous to clearing out vef
lels, and was referee! to a committee confiding of
Mr. White, Mr. Tucker, and Mr. Contee—who
are inftru<fted to bring in a bill pursuant thereto.
A bill to provide for an addition to the salaries
of the clerks in the otßce of the commissioners of
accounts, was read the firft time.
Mr. Livermore presented a bill, making appro
priations for the services of the year 1790 Read
the firft time.
A report of the secretary of the treasury, 011
lundry petitions, was read.
A meliage was received from the President of
the United States, 'oy his secretary; with a copy
of the ratification of the amendments proposed by
Congtefs, to the conttitution oftlie United States,
by the ftateof Delaware.
A petition of Gilford Dally, was read, and re
ferred to the committee of appropriations.
Mr. White presented a bill to regulate the ex
portation of certain articles, fubjetft to infpedlion,
by the laws of the several Hates.
Mr. Ames presented the memorial of David
Olyphant, Director-General of the Hospitals, in
the southern department of the late continental
army.
Mr. Hartley moved that the report of the com
mittee 011 the memorials of the people called
Quakers, Ihould be taken up for a second read
ing, which motion being adopted, it was read as
follows—l »iz.
That from the nature of thematcers contained
in those memorials,, they were induced to exa
mine the powers vetted in Congress, under the
present constitution, relating to the abolition of
flavery,and are clearly of opinion : Firit,that the
general government is expressly restrained from
prohibiting the importation offuch perfonsasapy
of the dates'now existing shall think proper to
admit until the year 1808.
Secondly, That Congress, by a fair conftru<fti
on of theconftitution, arc equally restrained from
interfering in the emancipation of slaves, who
already are, or who may, within the period men
tioned, be imported into, or born within any of
the said Hates.
Thirdly, That Congress have no authority to
interfere in the internal regulations of particular
Hates, relative to the inftrucftion of slaves in the
principles of morality and religion, to their com
fortable cloathing, accommodation and subsist
ence j to the regulation of their marriages, and
the prevention of the violation of the rights there
of, or to the reparation of children from their
parents; to a comfortable provision in cases of
licknefs, age or infirmity, or to thefeizure, tran
sportation, or I'ale of free negroes, but have the
fulleft confidence in the wifdoni and humanity of
the legislatures of the several Urates, that they will
revile their laws, from time to time, when neces
sary, and promote the objetfts mentioned in the
memorials, and every other measure that may
tend to the happiness of slaves.
Fourthly, that nevertheless, Congress, have
authority, iftheyfliall think it neceflaryto lay at
any time, a tax or duty, not exceeding ten dollars
for each person, of ally description, the impor
tation of whom shall be by any of the states, ad
mitted as aforelaid.
Fifthly, 1 hat Congress have authority to inter
dict, or (so far as it is, or may be carried on by
citizens of the United Stares, for supplying fo
reigners) to regulate the African trade, and to
make provision for the humane treatment of slaves,
in all cases while on their paflages to the United
States, or to foreign ports, as far as it refpetfts
the citizens of the United States.
Sixthly-, That Congress have also authority to
prohibit foreigners from fitting out veflels in any
port of the United States for tranfpprting persons
from Africa to any foreign port.
Seventhly, That the niemorialifts be informed,
that in all cases, to which the authority of Con
gress extends, they will exercise it forthe humane
objects of the niemorialifts, so far as they can be
promoted on the principles of justice, humanity
and good policy.
Mi. omith (S.C.) moved that the above be re
ferred to a committee of the whole, to be taken
upthefirft Monday in May next.
Mr. Boudinot proposed the firlt Monday in
April.
Mr. Jackson opposed the latter period ; he ur
ged several reasons which rendered it extremely
inconvenient to assign so early a day : A proper
knowledge of the present state of the importati
ons, and other particulars refpe&ing the flave
trade, which cannot be known so early, call for
a longer time—he adverted to the peculiar cir
cumltances of the southern states, and urged the
neceflity and justice of requiring a more perfecft
knowledge of the sentiments of their constituents;
to adopt it in its present form, would produce
infinite mifchiefs in the southern states—it would
excite tumults, seditions, and infurre&ions.
Mr. Vining opposed a postponement—he con
sidered the report if adopted as an honorable de
claration of the sentiments of the legislature, on
this important bnfinefs ; he could not conceive that
there was any grounds for the alarming appre
hensions entertained by some gentlemen.
Mr. Boudinot answered Mr. Jackfon —he ob
served that if the report was calculated to produce
such effe<fts, the argument is in favor oftne fliort
eft period ; that the report may be so amended,
as to prevent those effects.—He moved the firft
Monday ift April, because, he expected thatCon
grefs would rife in May, and he thought it would
not be giving the business that attention which it
deserved, to postpone it to a period which may
preclude all discussion of the fubje<ft whatever.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) and Mr. Stone urged the
poftponeinent, the latter Gentleman observed,
that he had not approved of the interference of
Congress in the buunefs. He thought that per
sons who are not interested, ought not to inter
fere j such interferences favored very strongly
of an intolerant spirit; and he could not suppose
that any one of the Rates had a right to interfere
in the internal regulations of another : The states
are not accountable to each other for their moral
conduift. He wiihed that the interesting circum
stances of the flares, which would be so material
ly affedled,might be taken into confiderarion,and
the fubjedi postponed to the firft Monday in May.
Mr. Vining replied to Mr. Stone, andobferved,
that it was very extraordinary, that a humane li
beral spirit—a wilh to diffufe universal liberty
should be called an intolerant spirit; and disinte
rested persons, he had always supposed the most
likely to form a just judgment; he could not but
approve of the report of the committee, it was
couched in terms of humanity and prudence, aiid
did great honor to the gentlemen who framed it.
Mr. Boudinot observed that as there were some
expressions in the report which if altered, might
give fatisfa&ion to all parties, he would move
that the house should now go into a commit eeof
the whole, in order to make those alterations.
Mr. Jackson said for the purpose of altering
the phraseology, he should have no objection to
going into a committee.
Mr. Burke was for postponing the business al
together, he dilated on the pernicious confe
rences which may be expe&ed to flow from an
interference in the business.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) moved that the report should
be recommitted—he expatiated on the conftruc
rion which might be put on the several parts of
the report and shewed their pernicious tendency;
he was pointedly severe in animadverting on the
conduct of the nicmorialifts inmedline with the
business.
Mr. Sherman opposed this motion ; he said that
this report was agreeable to his ideas, it was
prudent, humane and judicious.
The motion for recommitment was negatived
—It was then voted thac it should be referred to a
committee of the whole house—the time when it
should be taken up, occasioned some further de T
bate ; it was urged that as so much time had been
spent in the difcullion and many ideas were
thrown out of alarming inf'urreltionfc. it was be
come neceflary to make an early decifioh on the
business ; Mr. Boudinot therefore withdrew his
motion for April, and moved that the House
should at this time go into a committee of the
whole 011 the report.
Mr. Jackson was opposed to the motion ; he
animadverted with great severity on the memo
rial ills, and introduced an account of the mis
chiefs wich had resulted from the interference of
a fed: called Anabaptists in the State of Georgia.
Mr. Gerry juftified the Quakers —he was a
stonished he said, that these persons lhould be
treated wich so much severity, when it was well
known that they had exerted themselves in the
fame cause in Great-Britain and other, parts of
the world—that they had formed societies to ef
fed: their humane purposes, and for their exer
tions, had hitherto met with universal applause
It was finally voted to take up the report to'.
morrow week.
In committee of the whole on the report of the
Secretary of the Treafury-the aflhmption of the
State debts under confidet-ation Mr. White Mr
Stone, Mr. Smith (S. C.) and Mr. Gerry, spoke
on the fubjedl ; but the committee rose without
coming to a decision Mr. Clymer had leave
or absence for a few days.
TUESDAY," MARCH 9.
Mr.Benfon presented a memorial from Wil
liam Bedlow, late deputy Post-Master of the city
ot New-York—winch was read. *
-380-
The bill for encreafingthe falai ies of the sub
ordinate Clerks, in the office of the coinniiliion
ers on accounts, to the sum which is allowed to
such Clerks in the Treasury department ; was
read the fecondtime and ordered to beengrofled
The bill for making appropriations forthefer
vicesoftheyear 1790 —was read the second time
and ordered to be referred to a commkteeof the
whole on Thursday next.
The bill to prevent the exportation of goods
not duly infpedted according to the laws of the
refpedtive States, was read a feroud time and re
ferred to the committee of the whole on Thurs
day next.
The report of the committee appointed pursu
ant to the memorial of Robert Morris, Eiq. was
read, with certain papers accompanying the
fame.
In committee of the whole 011 the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury—the proposition for
the afl'umption of the State debts under confidera-
tion
After further debate on this proposition, it was
adopted, 31 to 26—as in the following words :
Resolved that the debts of the respective States
ought, with the consent of the creditors, to be as
sumed and provided for by the United States -
and at the fame time that effectual provision be
made for the liquidation of, and crediting to the
States the whole of their expences during the war
as the fame have been,or may bejftated for thepur
pofe—and that the best evidence of the fame be
taken, the nature of the cafe will admit.
The next propolirion' was also agred to, viz.
Resolved that it is advifeable to endeavor to
eifeCi a new niodiiicatiou of the domeflic debt,-
including that of the particular States, with' the
voluntary consent of the creditors by a loan, np»
on terms mutually beneficial to tliem and to tnp
United States.
Relblved, That for the purpose exprefied in
the lalt preceding resolution, subscriptions to
ward a loan ought to be opened, to the amount of
the said domestic debt; including that oftherei
petftive States, upon the terms following,
this resolve was adopted ; the firft alternative
which follows being read—a considerable debate
ensued, occalioned principally by a motion of
Mr. Boudinot to strike out all that relates to the
weltern territory—the committee finally role
without deciding 011 the motion or the rate of
interest. Adjourned.
NEW-YORK, MARCH 19.
A Correspondent observes, it is so long frnce
the agricultural interest of this country enjoyed
the advantage of a considerable temporary rife in
the prices of grain, that it is not a little surpri
sing to find persons coming forward with their
proposals of an embargo. To fay nothing of the
extreme modesty in which this proportion has
obtruded itfelf on the public—provided we are
favored with a very great surplusage of grain, as
is to be prefutned—the project of laying an em
bargo on its exportation would be as wife, as tlie
conduct of a merchant, who should shut up his
warehouse at the moment of a brisk demand for
his commodities.
The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Maf
fachnfetts, has appointed the Honorable Nathan
Dane, their Agent, to support the claims of that
Commonwealth againftthe United States.
A Correspondent would suggest the propriety
of Government's offering bounties for the en
couragement of Agriculture the ensuing season,
mori particularly to those farmers, who lhall raise
the greatest quantities offummer grain of all forts
—and of such vegetables as are the nearest sub
stitutes for grain.
_ The plan of rendering Federal Officers ineli
gible to State appointments is hostile to the best
interells of the States—as it will very frequently
deprive the people of the abilities of their belt
men—excite jealousies, and an opposition ofin
terefts :—Tuftice to the people requires, that good
men fhoula in all cases be competent to different
appointments, that are not in their natures in com
patible.
** Phi lelutheros"—" Americanus," See. are received,
and will appear on Saturday next.
To be SOLD,
At PUBLIC AUCTION, on the First Day of April next, (if
not disposed of before, at Private Sale.)
'T'HAT pleasant and valuable Place formerly cal
led COLES-FERRY, now by the name of VAN DUZER'S,
on Staten Island, Richmond County, with two good fufficient
Pettiaugers for the ferrying business. It is a beautiful situation,
and one of the best stands tor a Ferry, or Tavern, on Stat en-I Hand,
and an excellent Shad and Herring Fifhcry within 20 yards of the
door, Black-tifh, and all other kind of Fish in their season. It
is likewise the best and most convenient Ferry to Long-Island,
where a number of palTengerspafs and repafs. It lies within two
miles of the Pointof the Narrows, and between 8 and 9 miles from
New-York, There is about 30 acres of excellent good Land, chief
ly Meadow, with a very good Wharf t House, Barn and Garden —
the whole being in good repair. p It will also make a beautiful
Country Seat, fit for any gentleman.
*or Particulars enquire of John Anderson, corner of the
Exchange, or Charles M'Lean, White Hall, New-York, or
ot Messrs By er ss and Rei ll y, Staten-Ifland, or ot the Subfcri
bei on :h= premises, where the conditions of sale will be made
kn ? wn - ABRAHAM VAXDUZE K
Statcr.-IJland, March 6, 1790.