[No. XCIX.]
the tablet.
No. XCIX.
" Great events give scope for great virtues ; but
the main tenor of human life is composed of small 0c-
citrrences
THE greater part of mankind can be conver
sant only in small occupations and incidents.
There are few eminent stations to be filled, and
few remarkable events to be noticed by men.
We should therefore conclude, that the materi
als of our happiness, and the objects of our duty,
principally consist in the due regulation ot the
common transactions of In whatever sphere
a man may move, his virtue is frequently put to a
trial, respecting matters which appeared too trivi
al to have exerciled his thoughts. He departs
from the line of his duty, and mars his felicity
in many instances, merely because he does not
view the occasion important enough, to make it
material in what manner he conducts. 1 here is
no remedy against the evils which result from
errors in thefmall concerns oflife, but to acquire
such virtuous dispositions and habits as lead us
to prefer right to wrong, in the most immateri
al circumstance that may occur.
In distinguished situations, a man may be
prompted to great exertions, and feftrained fiom
vicious aitions, from a regard to his character.
But in the humble walks of his life he m3y sup
pose his character out of the reach of notice, and
will not be on his guard againil those little (lips
and inadvertencies, which are more prejudicial
to his happiness, and indicate a want of virtuous
habits, in a greater degree than errors or oniil
lions of duty, in more confpicuos situations. Ihe
reason is obvious We are (eldom called to the
performance ofillnftrious actions; but everyday
and every hour oflife introduces us to common
occurrences. An habit of doing wrong in these
will occur so frequently that the aggregate of in
convenience will exceed what would result from
a wrong procedure, in the few instances of emi
nent conduct, with which we may beconverfant.
The danger likewise of error on great occasions
is diminilhed by the energy of motive that im
pels us to act with propriety.
Habits of virtue form the only security against;
the numerous temptations by which we arc con
stantly surrounded. " Theymnft be formed and
fupported,potby unfrequent a<ts,but by daily and
frequent exertion, in order to their becoming vi
gorous andufeful. Great events give lcope for great
virtues ; but the tenor of human life is composed
of ftnall occurrences. Within the round of these
lie the materials of happin.efs of most men ; the
subjects of their duty, and the trials of their vir
tue. Whatever is to be our profeflion, no edu
cation is more necefl'ary to success, than the ac
quirement of virtuous dispositions and habits.
Whether science, or business, or public life be our
aim, virtue still enters for a principal share into
all those great departments of society. By what
ver arts we may at firft attract the attention, we
can hold the esteem and secure the hearts of o
thers, only by amiable dispositions, discreet ha
bits and virtuous actions."
BRUSSELS, Jan. i, 1790,
The following is the Copy of a Letter from the Emper
or to General D' Alton, Commander in Chief in tbe
Lout Countries, dated Nov. 22. Intercepted by the
Patriots.
"T Received, my Gen. this day, by dispatch, your
A report of the 14th, and I leave you to judge
if I have not reason to be furpiized, that since the
31ft of October, which was the date of your last
letter, I have not received from you further re
ports ofthe important circumstanceS and state of
the country that is confided to your care. I can
fay nothing of the events, becaule I am ignorant
of the dispositions that are made; but they ap
pear inefficacious, by the evil growing worse.
The permitting the rebels to establish tliemfelves
in .Flanders, and take Ghent, may be attended by
the most troublesome consequences.
" I expecfl, in your next report, that the troops
which arrived effetfted the purpose. This is riot
the moment to complain, but to endeavor for
the general good, and establishment of order in
the provinces.
" I am itill ignorant of the effects the different
requisitions have produced, and of the evidence
againll the people of diftintftion that are arrested,
as you have not mentioned either in your reports.
(Signed)
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 9, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK.
JOSEPH."
WEDNESDAY, MARCH, 24, 1790.
Copy of a Letter /rotn General D' jilt on to the Emperor,
dated Brujfels, November 27. Intercepted by the
Patriots.
" Sincc my report of the aotli instant, made
to your Majesty, the placart of the fame date,
publiflied the day after, proves that my ideas
werejuft, upon the intentions of Government;
the insolence of the people, notwithstanding does
not .contradicft it. Not only the four companies of
the regimentof Clairfayt, and two of Vierfit, are
detained prisoners at Ghent, and that of Captain
Bropore at Bruges, but bands of Patriots are
again upon our frontiers. The day after (the
21ft) the insurgents, tb theamount ofinany thou
sands, thre\v themselves into Turnhout and Hoog
ftraeten, which they still occupy. The rebels of
Flanders are entrenched at Ghent, and many of
them joined those in the town of Dieft after an
a<ftion in which they loft two or three hundred
men, but obliged' Major Broeda, with a division
of the regiment of Bender, which he commanded,
to retire to Arfchot, with the loss of nineteen men
and a piece of cannon.
" The misfortune at Dieft was moil unex
pected by me, and owing to General Count
Baillet, who commanded at Louvain, deferring
for twenty-four hours the dispositions I ordered to
make.
" To parry th" danger of the attack upon
Louvain, I instantly placed a battalion on the bor
ders of the sorest of Meldert, to intercept all
those inclining that way. ,
" General Hopencourt having evacuated Mons
without my orders, on the simple requisition of
Colonel Blekem, who found himfelf threatened at
Namur, I sent him, with his battalion and fqua
di 011 to the right of Neville, where he now is,
and from whence 1 may order him either to Lou
vain or to BrufTels, as occasion may require.
" The account of the taking of Dieft, deter
mined me to aflemble a force at Louvain, to drive
off the insurgents ; and I ordered a battalion of
the regiment of Ligne to march to that garrison,
and intended myfelf to take the executive com
mand of four battalions, and three hundred and
fifty horse, to force that troop of banditti; but
the edidt of the 21ft inft. required infinite circum
fpetftion on my part, and not to cross the negocia
tions of the Minister, recommended by his letter
to the people, of the 25th inflant. I enclosed hiin
a copy of the opinions of the general officers, and
Colonel de Brofe, assembled in council, at my '
house; but having received an equivocal and
verbal answer, I addressed to him a note, a copy
of which I enclose for your Majefly, and meeting
with a similar answer, I repeated my reprefenta
tioti; and the Minister coming tome in company
with the Vice Chancellor, M. Crumpipen every
reason urged could not make him alter his con
duct, notwithftandingthe importance of the ob
ject, under the pretext, that he should wait the
effect of his letter, written the 2jth, and the
Edicft of the 26th ; however, I engaged him to
make no further concession, which he promiled
me ; I then determined to defer my expedition
until the insurgents were informed of the favor
able disposition of Government, although I had
taken the preparatory and certain measures to re
duce tliem, &c. &c.
" But what was my aftoniftiment to find that the
Edicft of that day had been printed, and distributed
to the public two hours before the Miniftei* de
clared, in a note to me (the original of which I
subjoin to this,) that he would not fuffer it to
be publiflied, until we had determined upon that
point. Such is the situation in which I find my
felf, and I dare to hope your Majesty will deign
to fee the defed; of that situation. My troops,
in garrisons, inceflantly occupied in strengthening
them, those detached, harrafled, by continual
marches, and my operations always counteraded,
or at least flopped by the fliackles of administra
tion. Surrounded by these misfortunes, I re
ceived from Colonel Buckim an account a little
fatisfacftory of thefirft advantage gained over the
banditti.
" Your Majesty will find, by the original, that
I have the honor to transmit to you, that it is
fufficient to (hew ourselves to this undisciplined
mob to disperse them ; and that the infurreclion
in the country would have long lince been fnio
thered, if my advice had been attended to, and
above all, it' my orders had been obeyed. 1
expert that my next report will prove to your
Majesty, how much I had reason to think, that
it is by force alone that these people are to be
governed, now that administration are abandon
ed to the moll humiliating conceflions.
" In the mean time I have the honor to trans
mit to your Majesty a copy of a note, I this day
Jpttiift.
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
lent to the minister; it will, without doubt, prove
to him, that I never deviated from the conftann
and uniform condu<3: I imposed upon myfelf, not
to take any step without firft con falling him ; and
that I have infinite cause to complain of the in
ceflant obftaclesadminiilration throws in my way
by visible delays, and other acts, to those difpoli
tions that circumstances require.
" I shall not finifh my report, without inform
ing your Majesty, that I believe, notwithstanding
all the concessions of Government, the Insurgents
will not accede to the propositions, unless the fu
ture maintenance of their privileges are gauran
teed by other powers.
' (Signed)
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, MARCH t, 1790.
IN committee of the whole Houfe»—The proposition for altum
ing the State debts, and the amendments proposed thereto, be
ing under consideration.
MR. JACKSON observed, that he had from the intro
duction of the resolutions before the committee,particularly agai\il
the one now in contemplation : That he was opposed to it, not
only in its original form, but ia every poflible modification it
might aflume. That his ind'ifpofition had prevented his rising be
fore : That altho many arguments must have been used, which it
was importable for him to know : His duty compelled him to
come forward ; not with an expe£tation that his small abilities
could change the sentiments of a fjrjgle member, or that he should
gain a single proselyte ; but to (hew t*he reaions for which he op
posed the meafurc, and to produce some fa&s arising in the State
he represented. He confeffed, that if he was in favor of any mo
dification, it was the one which an honorable gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. White) had brought forward a few days finct: As
he had not been present at the former part of the debatt. he hoped
the house would indulge him in entering on the original ground,
and pointing out the light in which the buiinefs appeared to him.
The question might be viewed on three grounds : lft. the ex
pediency; 2d, the policy ; and 3d!)*, the justice of the refoiution.
It might be expedient, either from the prefling call of the States
who might complain of the grievance of their debts ; or, it might
be expedient from the clamors of the citizens of the refpe£H\»e
States, complaining of the State taxation. On the firft point, he
believed the States had made no fbch requeil, and that therefore
the expediency on that head was obviated. That he had hearjd
indeea, that South-Carolina had made some kind of application,
but that one or two States could not declarethe fenfeof the Union;
it could be known only by a majority, which did not appear t-o
demand this aflumption. That on the contrary he believed a ma
jority of the States were against the proposition, and that North-
Carolina had made it an article of amendment, u that Congress
should not interfere with the state debts," and that the voice of
North-Carolina, as well as South-Carolina, should be attended to.
With rcfpeft to individual citizens, no complaints had been
made to the house ; no petitions or Lnftru&ions had been forwar
ded to their representatives. Here he would remark, that it was
on this latter principle he wiflied, at a former day* the postpone
ment of the question, that the sense of his constituents might be
known. The wifli of individuals was therefore not ascertain
ed by cither method, and he believed that a great majority were
for the State debts remaining as they were; That they were fatis
fied with the State taxation by known and accuftomcd methods,
handed down to them by their ancestors. Many of the States had
imposed taxes in those certificates, and had cxtinguifhed a great
part of the State debts ; which taxes the citizens had cheaiiully
Submitted to : This had been done in the State he represented.
To those, he observed, he might add a third reason, why it was
not expedient, the creditors themfelve* had not requested it; there
was no petition, no evidence to warrant a conftru&ion that they
wished it.
He would now consider its policy : Here the field expanded.
He had as high an opinion of the Secretary's abilities as any man :
They were conspicuous : The force of his genius was flriking, and
his talents in the report were admired ; but he was one of thole who
did not think the Secretary infallible; aslongas he poflefied human
nature, so long would he possess the imperfe&ions and failings of
human nature. Ambition, laudable perhaps, to do theutmoft for
thfc Union, might lead him too far, and the plan, evidently to him,
in its policy, had reference to one of two points : firft, that it
is extended as an additional ligature to the continent, by detaching
the creditors from their dependance on the state governments, and
transferring that dependance to the nation, and thereby making it
the intereftof the remote parts of the Union,to support its mea
furcs ; or, secondly, by this specious method of relieving the States,
to remove every pretext for taxation from them, and thereby throw
that power entirely into the hands of Congress.
If we examine however the firftof those pofitioris, we shall find
it will not hold its ground ; for, the securities of the refpe&ive
States, likethofe of the continent, will change their holders ; nay,
they are already to the fouthwardgone from the original creditors
and are in the hands of speculators : they will like the continental
fecuritie6, be drawn to a point in a few commercial cities, or travel
into the hands of foreigners. The ligature, if this position is true*
will therefore not hold ; the tie will soon be broken.
The second will better stand its ground ; Snd I grant that the
whole powers of taxation may be absorbed by the Union. But
Sir, is it policy to take all the powers of taxation from the indi
vidual States and leave them' with the (hadow of a governmenr.
Is it policy to reduce their power to the infignificance of a. small
city corporation, or will the citizens be pleased with it ? A ma
jority, I believe, will be found attached to the modes and the lawg
of the State governments. Some of the most zealous partizans of
the present government, in the State conventions, in order to point
out its excellencies, compared it to a pyramid ; the foundationo(
which was the broad bans of the people, the middle or second
story the State governments, and the top or head the government
of the Union. Sir, let us beware, left in weakening this centrc
work, the head itfelf is riot in danger. The system before the
committee would require a multitude of tax gatherers, who would
be oppreflive to the people ; and at the best view what would the
people gain, but a change of masters and customs which they had
been used to, for masters and customs they had been unacquainted
with.
The Union, he observed, had been frequently compared to a
rope of sand ; it was well to beware, left the argument be carried
too far the other way ; left this ligature—this cord, by its too great
D'ALTON."tXtenfioo, might snap, and be rendered more difficult to biin£
together than the rope of faud divided in a dozen places.
Let us look to the policy of the former Congress. Did they
ever entertain an idea of taking on themselves the State debts ?
Did they ever pledge the faith of the continent to aflame them ?
Nay—Did they, when they applied to the reipe£live States for
the power of preserving the Union, I mean the five per cent, ever
dream of dilcharging those debts, or did any of th£ States require
it ? The constitution did not contemplate it ; for that provides
for the debts of the Union only, and many of the State debts are
not of a continental nature, and ought not to be a continental
-charge ; of this kind, I hold the Penobfcot expedition trom Mas
sachusetts, and the fitting out the (hip South-Carolina by that State.
If States choole to run into those balloon exploits on their own ac
count, their neignbors ought not to pay tor it. The intention of
the present fyilero I imagine is to introduce all those charges.
Policy, he said, was against the atrumption. Many ot the
States have material objections, and will view the interterence
with a jaundiced eye ; and uotwithftauding what gentlemen so fre
quently ridicule ot monsters and hydras, jealoufits will arise, and
peihaps from the nature of republican governments it is necessary
they (hould. I think, at least, that there will be a just founda
tion for fhem in the present inftance —for, will the citizen who
has alread) paid his proportion of the debt to his State, content
edly fee a new burthen imposed on himfelf and his poftenty—a
burthen we know not when we shall be rid of—a burthen we
know not the weight or amount of.
Again §ir, is it policy on the fubjefl of public credit ; paper '
of whatever denomination, whether flock or not, will be atfe£led
by the quantity in circulation, and will be depreciated accord
ingly. Policy on every principle forbids it—policy forbids us, in
the vigor of youth, to cloath ourfelvcs with all the impotence, im
becility and infirmity of extreme old political age. Britain wai
seventeen hundred years politically ola, dating trom Julius Caesar's
invasion, before Ihe had a funded debt. The United States have
scarcely attained their fourteenth political year, when they are a
bout to mortgage themselves and posterity lor a funded debt ; the
•one third, or perhaps the one hall ot the amount of Britain's enor
mous debts at this day.
Mr. Jackson observed, that the justice of the measure had as
many oojetfions.
The greatest plea of justice was, that the debt was of the fame
nature, and contra&ed for the fame reasons and in the fainecaufe.
His arguments before, he said, had proved this not to be altoge
ther the cafe : butfuppofmg it was, he asked whether it was jus
tice to compel the citizen who had already contributed, to pay a
i'econd proportion. Gentlemen had talked much of the exertions
of their States—the hardlhips they had endured—and the ravages
they had sustained. He could advance, with equal confidence,
that he came from the State which had fuffered the mod of any
in the Union ; where there was noplace, no corner but where
the British arms had been carried ; where the families had been
totally driven off, and their properties had been totally destroyed ;
where the inhabitants had scorned the Britifti prote£hon, and left
their properties behind them ; where what the Britilh had left,
the American army had taken to subsist on, and not a certificate
had been given in numerous instances. Yet those citizens whose
property had been thus destroyed, had cheerfully submitted to
the payment of the State debt. But would it be justice, after all
those lodes, and after this already voluntary contribution, to put
our hands again in their pockets, and fay, you must pay the
debts of MalTachufetts and South-Carolina. If those States have
not done as they ought—if they have not extinguifhcd their debts,
they have themselves to blame for it.
Sir, in Georgia the audited debt has drawn no interest—inter
est has been allowed only on a small proportion of funded debt ;
for we also Mr. Chairman, must have our project of funding, un
til we were convinced by experience it would not answer, and
that we could not pay a regular specie interest. By this plan, fir,
all those audited certificates will draw interest from the time of
liquidation, which will greatly increase the debt of Georgia, and
not benefit her citizens : for the late speculations, no doubt have
changed the holders, and the very man who did the service or fur
niftied thefupply, contented with the principal sum, will now
have to contribute his pioportion towards payment of the interest
of his own certificate and which he himfelf was not entitled to.
By the system before us tht settlement with the States is post
poned to a distant day—a day which never may arrive, and not
withstanding the balance may be in favor of the State I repre.fent,
the citizen may be forever bound for the intercft of this enormous
debt—the debt of other States.
There is another part of the Secretary's report which will ma
terially injure Georgia. The proviso, that where a Hate shall have
rxchangcd the securities of the continent for those of her own, no
settlement shall be made until those exchanged certificates (hall be
brought in and surrendered. The State of Georgia little thinking
of such a day as this, altho very materially concerned, has, as it
-was usual with her, burnt her exchanged certificates as they have
returned to her trcafury. Is she, because those certificates have
been funk and fentto oblivion, and which I wish our whole debt
was, to fuffer for her honcfty, and that of her citizcns ?
Sir, I will not tax the Secretary ith thedefign ; 1 will not im
pute the intention to him ; but I trust that we (hall not run our
lcives enormously in debt and mortgage ourfelvesand our children,
to give ftope to the abilities of any minister on earth to give an
opening to (hew the talents he possesses of managing taxes and the
resources of the burthen he unpofes.
Mr. Jackson concluded, by faying, that tohis mind and agreeably
to the reasons he had given, he was convinced the aflumptionof
the State debts was inexpedient, impolitic, and unjust ; and he
trusted that it would not be adopted.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) replied to Mr. Jackson, that he rtiould be as
un billing as that gentleman to assume debts of any State incurred
for balloon schemes (as they had been termed) but he did not think
the Penobfcot expedition or the South-Carolina irigate came
within that defenption ; the members from MafTachuflfetts could
answer for the former, and a? to the latter, he could fafely fay that
the State of South-Carolina fuffcred such injury to her commerce
during the war, that a naval prote&ion was indifpenfibly neccffary
—that other States were prote&cd by vetfels of war on continen
tal establishments, while the State alluded to was unprote&ed, and
her trade crippled by the enemy—that the equipment ot that vef
iel had cost a much less sum than was generally believed, as but a
small part of the sum demanded had been allowed by the State.
He obierved, that as the union were under obligations to protefl
every part, so were they also bound to contribute their propor
tion of expence, incurred by any particular part tor its own de
fence—thar this was language which had been much repeated dur
ing the I ast, feflion, when the houfehad been called 011 to vote a
large sum of money for the protection oi Georgia from the Creeks,
and which under the influence of that principle, the house had
a&ually done. That State could have justly complained had she
been left to protest herfelf, and to incur io heavy a burden.—Mr.
Smith said the opposition of gentlemen to the measure seemed to
originate in an idea thatthefe weiethe private debts of the several
States incurred for their own particular purposes ; the fact was
just the reverse—they were as much the debts of the continent, as
those which were called the continental debts—they were as much
the price of independence—instead of their being State debts as
sumed by the continent, they were in truth continental debts
which the States had assumed when Congress were unable to pay
them ; but now Congress had in its exclusive poffeflion the bell
resources of the nation, and (hould all those resources be applied
so the payment of a few continental creditors (and they had been
frequently told that all the continental securities were in the hands
of a few speculators) to the total ruin of all the State creditors, it
was eafv to anticipate dangerous consequences ; indeed such would
be the diflatisfadion on the part of the State creditors, that it would
couiidei ably obftiuft the colli & ion oi" the national revenue. There
had been no reason afligned, and he believed it was impoflible to
aflign any, which could eftablffh a diflin£lion between the one
and the other class ot these creditors—their claims were precifcly
similar, and they ought to be provided tor on similar terms.
Gentlemen were miilaken, if they thought South-Carolina had
made no exertions to discharge her debt since the peace—that State
had levied on her citizens every year a tax, which cjnlidermg hei
losses by the war, and the devafUtions committed by the enemy,
was a very considerable one, amounting to upwards ot 300,000
dollars annually for the interefl, besides a million and an half oi
dollars principal paid off, making upwards of three millions ol
dollars.
It had been said that Great Britain was 1700 years old before
(he began a funding fyflem, while the United Mates were about to
adopt it at the age ot 14 ; to that he observed, that America was.
nearly, if not quite, as lar advanced in political sagacity in ftci
early youth as Great-Britain in her extreme old age, having the
experience of Great-Britain, and of other nations during a long
course of years as her guide ; and that he always thought the vigoi
of youth was more equal to the support of heavy burden? than in
firmity of age. He agraed with the geutleman that if the measure
was a wrong one, the sentiments of one or two States should not
influence their determination, but he was persuaded that on a diU
cuflion of its own merits, it would be found necessary tor the u
nion and tranquility of all the States.
To Mr. Smith's answer, that the State debts were all on a foot
ing with the debts of the Union, and that on this principle, Geor
gia had received protection laftyear, and might receive more this,
Mr. Jackson replied, that if Georgia had received pru:e£tion, it
had not been with the vote of some members from thatStace (S. C v
who supposing, as he would charitably allow, that ihe Georgians,
and not M'Gillivray, were in the wrong, had withheld then
voice ; that however in his opinion, the cases were not the fame :
but he denied that Georgia hitherto had received the least shadow
of protettion from the union, although the moll favorable report
was exifling of their condutt on the table.
That the cases were not similar, because in the cases of Georgia
there was an invasion of the union*: whilst in the cafe of the fhi
the South-Carolina which he had mentioned, thai State had don
what they were not warranted in by the laws of Congress or con
federation. The fitting out Ihips of war—that that State was no
contented to be 011 an equality with her fillers, but aimed at a
high founding fame, of poffefling vessels of wai in her own em
ploy. That her# he w->uld remark, that as well in this cafe as in
that of the State vessel of Massachusetts, it could not be expected
that the Union should defray their expence. He would aikif any
of the prize monies of those vessels had been lodged in the trea
sury of the continent. He believed it h d not been the cafe, and
if it had not, the States which had reaped the benefits ought to
pay the charges.
The gentleman had insinuated, that as Georgia had allowed no
interefl or could not pay the interefl of her fundi d debt, ihe cer
tainly could not have discharged much of her debt. He would
put that gentleman right on this head, by assuring him, thai altho*
Georgia had not specie fufficient to 6lfcharge the inteieft of her
funded debt regularly, yet fhc had funk some hundred thousand
dollars of her principal debt.
Mr. Sedgwick said that he had not the vanity to suppose an.
thing new which hecould fay would authorise him to expett the alrea
dy txhaufted patience of the committee, in an exteniivt disc uHion
of the vast fubjeft before them. He would however, call on the
candor of the gentlemen who so strenuously opposed the propofiti
ou under confederation, for, an attempt to answer some of the ar
guments which had been repeatedly advanced by himfelt and the
gentlemen with whom he had the honor to a£t and think on this
occasion.
He observed that the revolution was a common, a national cauf.,
lhat therefore the expeufe should be equally apportioned—thai
whatever had been advanced towards the attainment of the objetfc
should be fatisfied, if within the ability of the government. That
if the whole could not be paid the iofs mould be fuitained in equal
and just proportion : That these were the di&ates of common
justice and common honesty. and universally considered as con
clusively binding in the usual intercourse of men in civil society :
That thus confidcring the fubjeft, he thought the States now stag
gering under an unequal weight of burden, had a right to demand
of this government the adoption of the proposed measure. He fur
ther observed that this demand for justice would appear the more
reasonable, when it was considered that the government wduld not,
should the resolution be adopted, sustain any loss. For that it was
infaft true, as had been repeatedly stated, that lhould the debts
be aflumed, there wouid still remain, a baliance due, to every
State. Bccaufe there was no State, which since the commence
ment of the war had not done more than to support the expences
of its own government, and all its other incidental charges. That
this would be tvident, when it was remembered, that the whole
with which a State, in the event could be charged, would be, the
debt to be assumed, together with what had been heretofore ad
vanced to it ; and on the other hand it would be entitled to a cre
dit for all its advances and services in the war. In th s view of
the fubjeft, which was the just one, he wished gentlemen would
explain why the government should delay to put the citizens on a
footing of equality ?
He observed that the accounts of individual States with the Uni
ted States would ultimately be fettled, or they would not : If the
former, then justice would be done to all ; it the latter, the only
charitable and liberal supposition would be, that the States had
equally exerted themselves in their glorious struggle for freedom.
He further wished gentlemen would explain to the committee
and to the world, what were their intentions in regard to the State
cred itors, who it had been proved were equally entitled with others
to justice. He affirmed that as it refpetted some of the States, no
efficient mealures, of national finance, could be carried into execu
tion, and at the fame time leave the States an ability to fulfil their
engagements —engagements entered into at a time when they were
in poUeflion of funds which were fully adequate to the purpose,
and which funds were now surrendered to this government.
ERRATUM : In Mr. Ames's Jpecch, in our lajl, 5 paragraph 3 column,
for 41 130,000," read 1,300,000.
FRIDAY, MARCH 19.
Sketch of the debate on Mr. Sherman's motion for appointing
a committee to enquire into the receipts and expenditures of pub
lic money during the administration of the Hon. Robert Morris
late fuperintendant of Financc.
Mr Gerry observed that feme how or other the House is con
tinually recurring to the modes of procedure adopted by the latc
Congress, who were both a legislative and executive body ; the
present government is organized on quite different principles
The President of the United States is the only competent author
ity to take cognizance of the conduct of officers in the executive
department—if we pursue the proposed plan of appointing com
mittees we destroy the refponfibily of executive officers and d iveft
the House of a great and cflenti.l privilege, that of impeaching
our executive officers for mal-adminiflration. He concluded by
faying he was in favor of the report of the Senate for the appoint
ing commissioners—as placing the business in a more parliament
ary and conllitutional direction.
Mr. Gerry was replied to by Mr. Hartley and Mr. Fitzfimons
who contended that the motion was ftrittly parliamentary as n
was certainlyjult that an investigation on the part of the House of
the conduit of public officers ought to precede all crimination of
their conduit; this enquiry Mr. Morris has applied for and on
every principle of equity, he ought to have a fair and full hearing,
that if his conduit has been such as to merit approbation, he may
no longer lay under any disadvantageous or injurious imputation.
Mr. Jackson called tor a reading ott'ne memorial; which being
read—-He objected to the appointment of a committee, he thought
uunneccffary, it would cltablifh a precedent which would ?r,.
-394-
voJve a great variefy of difficulties ; he had no doubt of the honor
and rectitude of conduct 111 the memorialist, he was ready to ac
knowledge that he had rendered the country great and meruorious
services—and that this was the opinion of the people in general
through the United States—he was for accepting the report of the
committee and thus finifh the business.
Mr. Vining was in favor of the motion—and observed that the
report (itappears) does not come up to the ideas of the memorialiifc
—he wilhes to give particular fatisfd£tion to the members of this
noufe ; he wishes the. fan£l ion of this house to the merit of his ser
vices, should they on invefligation appear to deserve such a fanc
tion.julHce is all he asks for,and furtly gentlemen will not deny that.
Mr. Fitziimons followed Mr. Vining in a similar train of obfei
vations.
Mr. Bland was opposed to the motion : he thought the report
was a full juflification of the condu£l of Mr. Morris ; he was op
posed to appointing commiilioners, as creating an unnecessary ex
pence.
Mr. Madison was in favor of the motion, he offered a variety of
observations on the fubjeft, and in support of the idea, that the
House should possess itfelt of the fullefl information in order 10
doing juflice to the country and to public officers.
Mr. Gerry defended his firft opinion, that the several branches
of government should be kept separate—he was only solicitous he
said that the house should not eflabhfh a precedent which would
mix the several parts of the government. The memorialist re
qucfts the appointment of commiflioners—and what is the ob
j £tion : nothing more than the expence, which in a matter ofjul
ice, ought not to be considered.
Mr. Stone observed on the idea of expence, that if the business
is easy to be fettled, commiflioners will not be wanted for a long
lme ;if the business is intricate and difficult, a committee will be
very improper—he was therefore in favor of commiflioners.
Mr. Sherman said that for himfelf he was perfc£lly fatisfied ref
peding the accounts of Mr. Morris ; they are certified by as good
and honefl men as can poflibly be appointed—men entirely un
iifluenced and uncontrouled by any perf on whatever ; but flill he
thought to give full fatisfa&ion to the memorialist and to wipe off
any aspersions which may have been cast on him, he was in favor
of a committee.
MONDAY, MARCH 22.
The amendments proposed by the senate to the bill foreftabiifh
inj an uniform rule of naturalization, and to the bill to provide
for the mitigation or remifTion of fines, forfeitures and penalties
in certain cases, were taken into consideration. To the firftbill
one amendment only was proposed, which was agreed to by the
house. The amendment to the other, it was said, involved anal
t ration of the principle on which the bill was founded; other ob
le&ions were made, and on motion it was voted that the amend
ment should lie on the table.
In committee of the whole; the report of the fele£t committee
on the memorials on the slave trade under consideration. The
sixth article was further dikulTed.
Mr. Scott commenced the debate this day in advocating the
prayer of the memorialists, he was replied to by several ot the
Southern gentlemen. It was moved that the claufelhould be ftiuck
.out, this motion being put, it pafled in the negative.
The committee then agreed to the proportion.
The Seventh article was struck out of the report.
The committee then rose, and the report, as amended and agreed
to, was laid on the table.
A roeflage was received from the senate, with the bill making
appropriations for the fupp >rt of government for the year 1790,
concurrcd in with amendments. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, MARCH 23.
Sundry memorials and petitions were presented and read.—
The amendments of the Senate to the appropriation bill were taken
into confederation—the firft was agreed to.
The sum allowed by the house to Gifford Dally, Efq, for ser
vices performed during the rerefs, it was proposed by the Senate
(hould be divided between him and Mr. Mathers the door keep
er of the Senate, this amendment was obje&ed to ; after forae con
versation, the amendment was concurred in with an amendment.
The committee to whom was referred the petition of Rich
ard Wells and John Hart, brought in the following report.
Resolved, That the poflTcffors of the continental bills of credit,
emitted by the authority of Congress, before the ißtb day of March,
1780, on bringing the fame into the Treafuryof the United States,
(hall receive certificates for the fame, at the rate of one dollar spe
cie value for one hundred dollars of the said bills ; and the fame
shall be funded on interest in the fame manner as the other debts
of the United States. The interest to commence on the day the
said bills (hall be lodged in said treasury—and ail such bills in the
treafuryof any State exceeding its quota required by the atts of
Congress of the 7th day of O&ober, 1779; and the 18th day of
March,l7Bo,on being brought into the treafuryof the United States
(hall be credited to the account of such State at the rate aforefaid,
on interest of fix per cent, per annum—from the time it was re
ceived into the Treasury of the refpeftive States; laid on the table.
It was then moved that the house {hould take up the report of
the committee of the whole on the memorials of the people called
Quakers. —This motion was oppofedby Mr. Jackson, Mr. Smith,
Mr. Burke, and Mr. Bland—they severally observed that the dif
:uffion of the fubjeft has already excited a spirit of diffention a
mong the members of the house—and that every principle ot po
icy and concern for the dignity of the house, and the peace and
ranquility of the United States, concur to shew the propriety of
iropping the fubjeft, and letting it deep where it is.—On the o
her hand Mr. Vining, Mr. Hartley, and Mr. Page observed, thai
here was the fame propriety in taking up the fubjett at the pre
ent moment, and bringing it to a conclusion as there was for firfl
aking it up—that it has been so fully difcufled, that it cannot b*
uppofed gentlemen will go over the fame ground again ; it ma)
oon be determined, to pass it over will be unprecedented, ane
nil leave the public mind in the fame State of uncertainty fron
vhich so much danger is apprehended.
1 he motion for taking up the report was warmly contested, itx
i lengthy debate, and finally patted in the affirmative, by a ma
jority of one This was followed by a motion tor entering the re
port ot the feleft committee, and the report of the committee of
the whole on the journals of the houfs. This motion called up
the speakers from all fides of the house, and wasatlaft determin
ed by Ayes and Noes as follow.
AYES.
Hartley,
MeflYs Boudinot,
Brown,
Cadwallader,
Contee,
Floyd,
Foster,
Gerry,
Gillman,
Goodhue,
Griffin,
Hathorn,
Heifter,
Huntington,
Lawrance,
Lee,
Leonard,
Madison,
P. Muhlenburg,
Parker,
NAYS'
Jackson,
Livermore,
Matthews,
Moore,
Messrs Ames,
Baldwin,
Bcnfon,
Bland,
Burke,
Carroll,
Coles,
Gale,
Pa ge.
Van Ranfrllaer,
Smith, fM.)
Smith, (S. C.)
Grout, Stone,
For the report of the felecfc committee, fee No. 96, March 10.
I he fubftancc of the 1, 3, 5, and 6fti proportions of this report
were agreed to by the committee of the whole.
The amendment proposed by the House to the Appropriation
Bill, was non-concurrcd by the Senate. Adjourned.
Partridge,
Schureman,
Scot,
Sedgwick,
Sherman,
Sylvester,
Sinnickfon,
Vining,
Wynkoop. 29.
Sturges,
Su mpter,
Thacher,
Trumbull,
Tucker,
White,
Williamfon. 55.FURTHER ACCOUNTS FROM EUROPE,
By thi lajl arrivals.
OF THE PATRIOTS OF BRABANT.
A GENERAL Congress of the States of Brabant
was to be held at Brullels the j January. A
number of Britiffi officers are gone to offer their
services tothePatriotsin the AultrianNetherlands.
Fort Lillo, one of the two polls which was held
by the Emperor's troops by the lull accounts pub
lilhed, has been taken bj the Antwerp Patriots.
The Emperor appresiending an approaching
di Ablution from his present indisposition, is pre
paring tor that event, by forwardingthe election
of a King of the Romans.
The States of Brabant and Flanders have con
solidated thenifelves into one body.
General Vandermesch isin the neighborhood
of Luxembourg with 20,000 men—and a heavy
train of artillery.
A report having circulated that the Emperor
of Germany had undutyreceived millions from the
Court of France. The Imperial Ainbailador at
Paris has wrote to Count Montmori N,the French
Minister, to contradicft officially, this unfounded
injurious rumor.
M. Desmeuniers was chosen President of the
National Aflembly in December. Among other
articles in the organization of the judicial power,
the following were proposed by the committee :
" Jufticefhall be administered in the name of the
King—No office fliall be created in order to be
sold—Justice fliall be rendered gratuitously—No
tribunal shall.have any share of legislative power
—Judges fliall not be removeable but for abuse
of office—Every citizen may plead his own cause
—All canfes (hall be entered in a roll in order, as
they come before the Court, and determined as
they ftandon this roll, without deviation, unless
by consent of parties. Many wife and liberal ar
ticles are daily added to the Constitution, and not
withstanding what hireling prints aflert to the
contrary, the National Aflembly are proceeding
in the great business before them with unanimity
and dispatch—and their decisions meet with un
expected and unparellelled approbation from their
constituents : As much peace and tranquility pre
vail throughout that immense kingdom, as could
be expe&ed in effecting so great and important
a revolution in government. A full and complete
toleration in religious matters is firmly established
by the decrees of the Aflembly, which enjoin that
" non-catholics" fliall be eligible to ele<fl or be
elected to all places ps honor and profit in the
public service.
Some of the venal English papers however, re
present the kingdom of France as in a very de
plorable situation—and even in Paris, one poor
Englishman writes to his friend in London that
he is afraid of starving ! The Provinces, another
fays, are in tumults, and attempts are made to se
duce the army—still without effect !! Narfhal
Law is proclaimed infonie of the provinces ; but
they are afraid to proclaim it in others : That
the people, under the dire&ion of the National
Aflenibfyyareinafiinilar situation to what the peo
ple of England were, under Cromwell—with a
variety of such entertaining articles—and yet the
National Afletobly and the King appear to be on
the best terms —the people are happy—plenty
has flowed in upon them—and the pro(pe<ft is al
together in favor of their eitablifhing a free con
ftitQtion.
TURKS AND AUSTRIANS.
Great preparations are making to prosecute the
war, notwithstanding the rumors of pacification ;
but a§ the war has continued nearly long enough
to exhaust the resources of all parties, it is molt
probable that the pad winter has produced a peace
—or a substitute at least.
In the park of the Efcurial, in Spain, during
the late appointment of Grandees, there were
twenty fountains in full play ; among them a
inoft grand jit d'tau., affording an illuitration of
the do<ftrine of hydraulics ; and there was ano
ther, playing by the elasticity of air. A marine
fountain had a beautiful effe<ft; it was formed to
Sea Divinities, naiads, tritons, dolphins, &c. &c.
The Efcurial used to be called one of the won
ders of the world. It has eleven thousand win
dows, fourteen thousand doors, eighteen hund
red pillars, twenty-two courts, and seventeen
piazzas. It has three libraries, confiding of eigh
teen thousand volumes, and three thousand Ara
bian ixianulcripts. Here the King and Queen have
apartments, and the reft ps this superb palace is
inhabited by Monks. The plan of the building
is in the form of a gridiron !
Lorenzo, a famous Spaailh Saint, was broiled
on a gridiron ! Philip II built the Efcurial in me
mory of this Saint, and the battle «jf St. Quintin.
At the late Royal promotion by the King, Loren
zo was invoked by the Monks to lbower down
blessings on the new Grandees.
The Spani(h gentry are very numerous, and
their families ancient ; the cause of all
landed estateS are entailed, and cannot be alieria
ted but in failure of iflue, and then not without
great expence, which occalions land to be so ve
OF FR.tXCE.
LONDON.
ry dear there ; it is worth forty years purchase.
At the late Royal promocion, each new made
Grandee was obliged to produce proof of his be
ing clear, by four generations, of the blood of
a Jew !
The Defence of the Genius of Women, an aca
demic discourse by Donna Giufeppa Ainar and
Bordon, in answer to D. Gafparo [ovellanos and
Don Krancefco Cabarrus, Counsellors of his Ca
tholic Majelty, and Members of the Royal Aca
demy at Madrid (into which society they endea
vor to prevent the admiflion of women) is a
fatal blow to the affedted and arrogant pre-emi
nenca of the male sex.
This enlightened female, after demonstrating
the equal powers of her sex, in literature, poli
cy, and all the fine arts—attacks the objections
of the King's Council with the most pointed wit
and ridicule, itifomuch that they have requested
a ceflation, and not only consented to the admis
sion of women, but invited them.
Dr. CuLLtN, thro infirmity, resigned the
medical profefTorfhip at Edinburg, which he haa
filled for 34 years, with infinite credit and ability.
On this occasion, the Lord Provost has moved,
that the Magistrates and Council request his ac
ceptance of a piece of plate, on which may be en
graved such an inscription as may be thought
molt expreflive of the high sense of the merit of
the Profeflor, and their esteem and regard for
the man.
Richmond, March 3.
The following address from the citizens of the county
of Albemarle, was presented to the Hon. Thomas
Jefferfon, Efq; at his feat, the 12th day oj Feb
ruary, 1 790.
PERMIT us to present to you our moil sincere
congratulations on your return to your native
county. We should do a violence to our feelings,
and illy reward your merit, if we did not upon
this occasion, give you this teftiinonial of our es
teem.
At an early period of your life, and a very criti
cal tcra of public affairs, weele<ftedyou our repre
sentative in the General Aflcmbly. The fubje<fts
which at that time engaged the deliberations of
that body, were kighlv iniereftingto our country.
The controversy into which we were from neceifi
ty about to embark, involved consequences of the
firft importance to society, and called for the exer
tions of those of her citizens who were mod dif
tinguilhed for their wifdoin, integrity and patrio
tism. Your conduit in the discharge of thattruft,
merited our warmest approbation, and in a review
of the signal services you have since rendered, we
have always considered it a lingular instance of
good fortune, that we conferred, and that you ac
cepted the appointment. In that station, your
talents and virtues became known to yoifr country,
by whom they were afterwards made more exten
sively beneficial to the community at large. By
their appointment, you have since held a leries of
high political employments, and we have reason
to believe that your conducft in every stage, has
been as fatisfa<flory'to those whom you served, as
it was in the commencement inoft acceptable to us.
We ihould wound your feelings if we entered
into a d etail of those adts of your public life which
we highly approve. We cannot, however, decline
alluring you, that we have been particularly hap
py to observe the ftrongattachment you have al
ways shewn to the rights of mankind and to those
inilitutions that were best calculated to prelerve
them. Conduct like this, founded on such noble
and illustrious principles, will always entitle you
to, and secure you the gratitude of your fellow
citizens.
If we cojifult the particular benefit of our coun
ty, in a variety of instances, we fliould feel anxi
ous, that you woujd for the future remain with
us.—But America has still occasion foryour servi
ces, and we are too much attached to the com
mon interests of our country, and entertain
too high a refpetft for yourmerit, not. to unite
with the general voice that you continue in her
councils. In whatever line you may think pro
per to a«ft, you will have our most earncft wi flies
for your welfare.
February 12, 1790.
To which he made the following reply.
Gentlemen,
T'HE testimony of esteem with which you are
to honor my return to my native county,
fills me with gratitude and pleasure. While it
that my absence has not loft me your friendly
recolle<flion, it holds out tlie comfortable hope
that when the hour of retirement shall come, 1
(hall again find myfelf amidlt those with whom I
have long lived, with whom I wi/li to live, and
whose aftetftion is the fonrce of my present hap
piness.--Their favour was the door through which
I was ufliered on the stage of public life ; and
while 1 have been led on through its varying
scenes, I could not be unmindful of those who as
signed me my firft part.
My feeble and obfeure exertions in their service,
and in the holycaufe of freedom, have had 110 o
tlier merit than that they weremybeft. We have
all the fame. We have been fellow labourers,
and felJow-fuffcrers ; and Heaven has rewarded
395
us with a happy ifluefrom our druggies. It rests
now with ourselves alone to enjoy in peace and
concord the bleflings of felf-govcrnment, so long
denied to mankind ; to fliew bv example the fuf
ficiency of human reason for the care of human
affairs; and that the will of the majoriry, the na
tural law of every fociery, is the only sure guar
dian of the rights of man. Perhaps even this
may sometimes err, but its errors are lioiielt, so
litary and short-lived. Let us then iny dear
friends, for ever bow down to the general reason
of the society. We are fafe with that, even in
its deviations, for it soon returns again to the
right way. These are leflbns we have learnt to
gether—we have prospered in their practice ;
and the liberality with which you are pleafedto
approve iny attachment to the general rights of
mankind, allures me we are still together in these
its kindred sentiments.
Wherever 1 may be flationed by the will of my
country, it will be my delight to fee in the gene
ral tide of happiness, that your's too flows 011 in
just place and ineafure. That it may flow through
all time, gatheringftrength as it goes, andfpread
ing the happy influence of reason and liberty
over the face of the earth, is my fervent prayer
to Heaven.
Fibruary 12, I 790.
New-York, March 24, 17^0.
Members of the House of Representatives of the United States,
eleffed for the State of N. Carolina, aie Hon. Hugh William
son, Hon. John B. Ashe, Hon. Timothy Blood worth, and
Hon. John Steele.
LxtraEt oj a letter from Bojlon, March 14.
" We are all fatigued out with the slowness of congreflional
proceedings. Too much time is wafted in loog speeches upon
points, to fay the Icaft not ot the greatest importance ; at this rate
of progreflion, it will consume the life of Congrels to decide on
the Secretary's report. Not a day ihould be loft, as the year will
be too flioit for the arrangements neceflary in the Treasury de
partment—and it gives a trifling air to the measures of govern
ment to fpendfomuch time in debating and re-debating incon
sistent proportions.—The foregoing are my own sentiments—but
I forbear to repeat the observations of some characters, who tak.e
pleasure in finding fault, and wijk to sow the feeds of difaffc&ion
among the jvople."
On Saturday last the Hon. Thomas jeffcrfon, Secretary of State
ele£i,ai rived here from Virginia.
Monday the Senateoor. r this State, concurred in the resolution of
the aflembly, declaring it incompatible (according to the consti
tution of the United States and of this State) that a member of ei
ther house of Congress, or person holding anv office under the au
thority oi the United States, should be a member of thcLegiflaturc
of this State.
A vote wos then pa fled declaring the feat of the Hon. James
Duane, Phillip Schuyler, John Lawrance, and John Hamorix,
Efqr's. vacant.
Late accounts from London advise that the abolition of the
Slave trade is yet an obje6l of great attention to the friends of hu
manity in England and France, and that eflFe&ual measures to at
tain that obje& are pursuing with unremitting diligence.
A correspondent observes, that there is no sentiment that can be
mentioned, in which the citizens of the United States, are so ge
nerally united, as in this—that the abolition of the Slave Trade'is
a duty of humanity, justice and found policy.
Accounts from the country inform that the interior parts of the
State arc full of grain, and as soon as the travelling becomes
good, it will be feni to the capital in abundance
A correspondent obft-rves that as revenue is the nerve of govern
ment so the support of Public Credit is the only solid basis of
revenue—for the attainment of this object, ourexertions were con
centered to a point, in bringing about the adoption of the new go
vernment— should procraflination or any other fatal circumstance
prevent the funding system's being completed this fcflion, the
consequences are mod seriously to be deprecated.
On Friday the 12th inft. died at Dumfries (Virginia) on his way
toCongrefs, the Hon. Col. William Grayson. Senator of the
United States. His remains wereon the Sunday following, attend
ed by a numerons circle of his acquaintance, depofiledin the family
vault at the Rev. Mr. Spence Grayfon's.
By the death of this gentleman the public, as well as his own
family, have sustained an irreparable loss.
His abilities were equalled bv few.
His integrity fur palled by none.
The Abbe Raynal, that celebrated Philofoplier
and friend to mankind, fays, on the i'ubjed: of
slavery, " I will not disgrace myfelf by adding
one to thelift of venal writers, who have proititu
ted their pens in defence of a trade so abhorrent
from the laws of universal jultice. No principles
of policy can juftify the breach of her sacred laws.
In so enlightened an age, an age where so many
errors are boldly laid open, it would be fhameful
to conceal any truth that isinterefting to human
ity. We will firft prove that no reason of State
can authorize slavery. In doing this we lhall not
hesitate to arraign, before the tribunal of eter
nal light and jultice, all thofegovernments; who
tolerate the cruel pracftice, or are not afliamed to
make it the basis of their power. The great
Montesquieu could not prevail upon himfelf to
treat the question concerning slavery, in a se
rious light. In reality it is degrading to reason
to employ it, I will not fay in defending, but e
ven in refuting an abuse so repugnant to it ; who
ever juftifiesfo odious a system deserves the ut
most contempt.
" Pauci sidHonesti" and other favors in our next.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NLW YORK.
Ship Henry. Shipman, London, 63 days.
Ship Hudson, Segar, Plymouth, 70 days.
Ship Nerva, Irvin, Liverpool, 58 days.
Ship Venus, Clarke, Bristol, 56 days.
Ship Fanny, Woodburn, London.
Ship Flora, Deny, Liverpool, 61 days.
Brig Morning Star, Kermit, Amsterdam, 6a days.
——Brig Abigail, Harris, Havre de Grace, 74 days.
Schooner Sally, Patterfon, Shelburne, 6 days.
Schooner New Hope, Cook, St. Kitts, 18 days.
——Schooner America, Graham, Curracoa.
——Schooner Polly, Smith,. Richmond, 9 days.
Sloop X'nity, WatfoA, Philadelphia, 9 days./
State-House, Augusta, Dec. 22,1789.
ADDRESS of the GENERAL ASSEMBLY of the
State of GEORGIA,
To THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES
SIR,
THE federal Constitution being adopted, it be
came the wish of the people of this State
that you Ihould be elevated to the Presidency of
the Union ; and the two branches of tlieLegifla
ture take the firfl. occasion of offering to your ac
ceptance their congratulations on the unanimity
of your election.
In the great concerns of mankind success has
not always been attendant ontheperforman.ee of
duty ; and where it has, the famflion of public
approbation has frequently been withheld ; but
it was reserved for you in the midst of the molt
arduous difficulties, not only to be fuccefsful, but
to have been so with univei sal applause.
Raised by your virtues and services to the head
of !i government, pervading so many independent
States, the general confidence is in favor of your
justice, and, while the hiltory of nations informs
that the errors of rulers have often proceeded
from the want of information, we lhall not hesi
tate to Hy before you such fads and opinions ref
pe<sting this State, as may appear to us to be in
cumbent or neceflary. In doing this, it (hall be
our aim to unite plainnels with respect, and in
tegrity with truth.
Sir, in the course of the war which eftabliflied
our independence, our citizens made proportion
ate exertions withthofe of any part of the whole,
and, in point of property, they fuffered the molt :
the peace found the country a waste ; with many
natural advantages, we flattered ourselves with
a speedy recovery, when we were attacked by the
Indians.
On this fubjeft we wish to be delicate—much
has been already said—we have aflerted, and it
has been contradicted—removed at a distance from
the centre, our actions have been liable to inifre
prefentation ; but we trust that by this time, they
are better explained—in the mean while our po
pulation has been checked, and our agriculture
diminished—the blood of our citizens has been
spilled, our public refoufces greatly exhausted ;
and our frontiers still open to frefti ravages. The
failure of the late negociation for a peace with
the Creek Indians, and the circumstances which
attended the fame, are the best evidence of the
necessity of our nieafures and a proof of the late
hostile disposition of these people : but under
the influence of the government and power of
the Union, it is to be hoped and expected that a
different condu<fl will on their part prevail : on
our part, nothing /hall be wanting to promote so
desirable an ellablifhment.
Another circumstance of additional calamity
attendant on our being the south frontier of the
Union, is, the facility of our black-people cros
sing the Spanish line, from whence we have never
been able to reclaim them. This has already
been productive of much injury to private per
sons, and if not speedily retrained, may grow
into an evil of national magnitude.
We take this occasion of bringing this business
into view, with a perfed: reliance, that you will
cause such difcuflions to be made, as fliall be necef
fary to bring about a remedy.
We requelt you will accept our cordial wiihes
for your health and happiness. and that you may
long continue to enjoythat confidence which has
been so eminently placed in you by the people of
the United States.
By order of the Senate,
N. BROWNSON, President.
By order of the House of Repre{e>tt<ntives,
SEABORN JONES, Speaker.
The President of the United States.
To the GENERAL ASSEMBLY of the STATE of
GEORGIA.
Gentlemen,
THE congratulations presented to nie by the
different branches of the legislature of the
state of Georgia, upon my having been ele(fted
with unanimity to the Presidency of the United
States, afFe<stmy niind with the moftpleafing sen
sations ; and demand my best acknowledgments.
From the observation, that, in the great con
cerns of mankind fucccfs has not always been
attendant on the performance of duty, and
that, where it has, the fancflion ot public appro
bation has frequently been withheld ; J am na
turally led to reflect on the unlimited gratitude
which we owe, as a nation, to the Supreme Ar
biter of human eventsfor his interposition in our
favor, as well as on the lingular obligations which
are due from me, as an individual, for the indul
gent sentiments which my fellow-citizens have
always had the goodness to entertain of my con
duct.
Raised, as I am, to the head of a government
pervading so vast a territory—and poflelfing, as
1 flatter myfelf I do, the confidence of the people
in regard to my dispositions—l afl'ure you, gen
tlenicn, that nothing could be more consonant to
my wishes than to be favored with such facSts and
opinions refpeifting the condition of the states as
may. appear proper and neceflary. ¥orl am duly
ienfible that many errors which would result from
want of information, may be obviated by timely
and just representations.
I am not ignorant how much the local fitnation
of your Hate exposed its inhabitants to fuffer the
diftrefles of the late war in a severe manner ; nor
how manfully they exerted themselves indefence
of the common cause during the struggle which
established our independence.—Watted as your
country was at the return of peace, and exposed
as your frontiers have since been to the ravages
of the Indians, I cannot but flatter myfelf that
you will ere long realize the bleflings which were
to be expected from your natural resources, and
find a compensation for your fufFerings in the be
nefits of an efficient general government.
It will not be expedted, I presume, on this oc
casion, that I should enter into the merits of the
delicate fubjedt to which you allude. It maybe
(ufficient to fay, that while I regret extremely the
failure of the late negociation for peace with the
Creek Indians, lam fatisfied that the explanations
which have been obtained through authentic chan
nels will be of eminent service. lam also convin
ced that nothing will be wanting on your part to
concur in the accomplishment of a pacification ;
and I still hope, that under the influence of the
general government that desirable objecfl may be
effected. With refpeift to this fubjedlin general,
as well as to the other calamity which you men
tion as resulting from your being the South fron
tier of the Union, I requeftyou will be persuaded
that I shall make such use of the powers inverted
in me by the constitution as may appear to be best
calculated to promote the public good.
I am much pleased, gentlemen, with the frank -
ness which you have manifelted in regard to my
felf, and return you my hearty thanks for the
good wishes you have exprefled for my health and
happinrfs—with a sincere prayer that the fame
bleflings may be extended to you and your con
ftituents G. WASHINGTON.
EOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ALTHO the Sun rises and finds me unbleft,
By those gifts which blind fortune bellows ;
Altho at the eve he retires to reft,
And leaves me with daiknefs and wots ;
2.
Tho sickness and pain should with poverty come ;
Tho worldly cares throng round my gate,
Tho misfortune (hould under my roof fix her home,
And men turn their backs on my (late ;
3-
While blest with thy love, dear joy of my heart,
(And thy love would encreafe with my pain)
While from me you turn aside misery's dart,
And cheer with those fmilcs your lorn swain.
4-
While united we strive thro life's dreary vale,
To bless those less blefs'd than ourfclves ; '
While making religion our pilot, we fail
Secure amongst rocks, sands and flielves—
5-
No pain, no misfortunes, no woes can remove,
Or ruffle that calm peace of mind,
Which I must possess, while possessing your love,
And bearing good will to mankind.
Salem, March p, 1790.
I . A n T A T A f Cou " of the Unitcd s "'« for 'he
X-J Diltrict of Massachusetts was opened iq this town. No bufi
l came before the Grand Jury at this Conrt. Two actions, lor
breaches of the Revenue Law, were tried before the Petit Jury, in
the name of the Unued States. The bufinefc being finiflred, the
Court adjourned on Thursday morning.
At the opening of this Court, the Hon. Judge LOWELL gave
a Charge to the Grand Jury—of which the lollowing is an extract.
" AS the prevention of offences is much more ufeful to the com
munity, than the detection and puniffiment of them, it canno" be
improper, at the commencement of a new government, to make
such observations to those whose bus.ness it is to inquiri concern!
If the government lately eftaolifced, or any national govern
ment, is necessary for the peace, fafety a„d happ, ne fs of the^ui-
ZenS '/ America, there .s one thing which especially require, the r
very fer.ous attention—l mean the REVENUE—which u r.ee
fary to enable u to do juft.ee toil,creditor,, ,0 re-establish it, ere
dit and to exercise the powers and functions of government
in short without which it cannot ex,ft. Before the revolution in
Amcnca, when the regulation of our trade was in the hands of a
government m which we had no (bare, and by the operations of
which whatever was taken from our citizens lessened '"he burthen
of their own, the revenue laws were oonf.dered a. a grievance - and
the interests and paftions of individuals running in the fame course
with the general fent.ment, and the too lax morals of some o f°heir
officers having left them open to corrupt Draft ices th, - r r
those laws was eonfidered by some as iuftifiable and K 10 ° °
but a venial fault 1,1 habits are haVd so break tL Y TrooLd
path, once entered, is apt to lead U s further astray. Have we not
some reason to tear that the fem.ments so imbibed may b£w£
brought into action ? But if we consider that to defeat our reve", e
l<tws will be to destroy our goverument and fh » i 5
and impede them will engraft aVfV"
the neceflity of new laws to extend the source, and'mak" «n !he
deficences-that new checks and penalties must be created* and
the expeoce of the eollefhon wiU be thereby enormously increased
—can we hefyate to declare, that it is the d'utv of „ r „j ' . rca,ec <
observe and support these laws ? But when we furtJL co«<W
that what we defraud our country at large of we take f k'
pockets of our honest and confcientiotis neighbors and beC?" 1 k!'
by that means to underlie)! them, their fortunes n'nd j g
beabfolutely deftroyed-and if we ZfLZ"
vafions can seldom take place, without being tinfturcd w„h
falfe appeal to that BEING who knows on. I,farts an J V *
certainly avenge himfelf— can we havelefs hefitatioA t A T
it is the duty of every good man to .id the'S^
laws ?—We are now at the beginning. Public (>„, !. ° thef f
us. .Each deviation will ppen a door for others w |V* W
be happy then for ourfelvcs and our nation tl " 0t
become highly difreputable-and if o *i^r i t s° U ' d
country, (bould obtain a triumph over the meaner n/m r ° Ur
nee, and its natural offspring, dishonesty ? P alr ' or > of ava.
-396-
MOM THE ALBAXY GAZETTE. Uarckiß
QN Monday morning, thei s thiull. as Mr Van
W Renffelaer, foil of Gen. Henry K. Van R eilf "
felaer, and his fitter, were accompanying the r
cpufins, two of the daughters of Col. John Vis
fcher-, of Green Bush, to their father's, in a fleWi*
the ice of the river broke in, within a few yards
of the end of their journey, nearly opposite
houfeof Volkert P Douw, Esq. Their cries were
soon, providentially,heard by Mr. Douw's family
and his negroes ran to give afliftance. When'
they arrived at the place-the sleigh and the hair
of Mr. lienflelaer s head were alone to be seen
a board, that one of the negroes had brought
was then put under Mr. R. and he was firft fnatcl/
ed from deftrudtion. Mifsßenflelaer immediate!
ly emerged, near her brother, and was also f av
ved. The eldest Miss VilTcher was next drawn
upon the ice, but sisterly affection checked every
rising fear for felf-prefervation, and as she was
extending the hand of afliftance to her expiring
lifter, the ice again broke, and they were both
instantly abforded by the eddy, out of everv
reach.---The eldest Miss Viflbher was 21 yearsof
age, and was to have been married in a few days
the younger was in her i6rh year.—Every ex'
ertion has been made to find the bodies, but that
of the eldest only has been found. The horses
had fallen into the river with so great velocity
that they broke the traces, plunged under the
ice, and were not to be seen after the negroes ar
rived.--- 1 his fatal spot has been open the whole
winter, till within two days of the accident.
The ice in it was only three inches thick but
within a few feet round, it was eighteen. '
Reader! pa use a moment, and lay to heart
this melancholy example of the uncertainty of
life. Be warned by the fate of these two amia
ble young ladies, that such also may be yours
Life,at itslongeft extent,is short. Few live tothe
evening of the day of Life. When haply one
has seen the fun fink in the horizon, if he reflects
how many does he recoiled to have dropped
down in every hour of the day. Think of this
and '
" TV hit ft thou /iv''ft, tiffe roell:
" How Jhort »r longfuhm'tt to Heaven."
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, for the purpose of rajf.ng Seven Tm
fdnd Five Hundred Poufifa, agreable to an ACT nf t n
turf 'he State of New-Yorl, passed B[h Fe" ary^;^"
1 PRIZE of £.3000 £. 3000
I ">°° 2000
,S s°° • '50°
, 0 200 tooo
% 100 a<*?°
»"> 1° 1500I 500
180 J 4°®
795° 10 1800
75,5 4 3.800
3°
SO
120
180
795°
8346 Prizes, >
16654 Blanks, J 2 5 00 ° Tickets, at 40s. each, f. 5 0000
THF nKVft b j/®. to , a « Je<lu Q> on of fifteen per Cent.
ad™ccd r' S LOTTE f RY bei "go raife a part oftbefe
TY HALL 1 .1 r P oratlon f° r repairing aß d enlarging the Cl
r uu aeeommodation of CONGRESS whichdors
so much honor to the Arch,.eft, as well as credil the c.ty Thc
cui«« wi n ch3 y c T ™.
this Lotterv wilf rr| C k° ' cf P ec,al| y as the fucctfs of
be laid to leimhn r 3 tax ' wl, ' c b must otherwise
oe laid to leimburfe the corporation.
to rdvenw e rs S ?h IEME u calculated a manner very beneficial
The ?;,,, ' n °j /'"'S 'wo blanks to a prize./
Makers 5 by t h°e Cor f ' ubfcribe ". who 'reappointed
Pi*ri» °" rE " Bu R ch > Abraham Heiring,
Nrv-York, *hl£ k "™ Vi ' P ' —
At PUBLIC AUCTION, on of Apr. i next, (if
rpu.-r- J, disposed of before, at Private Sale.)
led Cf?i fs f?d d" va ' ua^'e Place formerlycal
on State,i j°£ bythc namc of VAN DUZER'J,
Pettiaueers so- thr t' ,C m 0 ? ount y> two good fufficient
and one of the brft ft Crr J ln / IC^S ' '* * beautiful fituatian,
and an excdlent Shfn ° r Taver "> °n Staten-Ifland,
door B! ick F Hi' , an . ( ? Hf t rrin S within 20 yards of the
is Hk'cwife j k,nd ot Flfll in their season. It
e best and roost convenient Ferrv to Lorw Island.
m, wre m p b o-n, of r^ r5pafc and rc P afs - h ]ic * wifhin two
New York There ' h ovvs > and between 8 apd9 reilesfronj
Iv Meadow I,K 30 acr " ofexceilent good Land, ch.ef-
beml Very /°° d Wh " f - House, Barn and Gaiden-
Countrv Seat fit f" g repa ' r " w '" wake a beautiful
country Seat, fit for any gentleman.
C* tnc l a,re of John Anderson, corner of tfic
o*Mc(Trs ir * dKd M ' Lea »> White H»il/New-York. or
bci on *h« r,rc r D EII LY ' Staten-Ifland, or of the Subfcri
known 1 CS> vv^lCre the conditions of sale will be made
fe H A .!? AHAM VANPUZER.
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
A , , „. No ' 4> Bu« ling-SLIP,
/general Afiortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS,
Rnni- wl> ich are tlle following Articles :
i ziS-
Hankcrchicfj.of various kinds,J| ( .|T|- '
rin n l" eS ' Seersuckers,
C.ngham,, jj Bog|apores '
Wlf . V ar, «y of handsome painted MUSLINS.
raan ) other Articles, which will be fold by the Pieces
Package, low for cafli.
£".3000
ioeo
ijoo
4«e»
SQO
200
100
5°
£0
2500
2400
1800
31800