[No. C.]
THE TABLE T. No. C.
<' Fortune maintains a kind of rival/hip with wi/Jom."
TO discover precisely the causes of the
different degrees of success which at
tend the affairs of men, is beyond the reach of
human sagacity. There is such a blend of good
fortune and good management requisite to main
tain a prosperous course in life,that it is iinpoffi
ble to determine to which of them, a man is princi
pally to ascribe his prosperity. A great part of
what is trfually called good luck, among men, is
nothing more than the effe<!t of measures di<flated
by a found judgment; and a great part ofwhat is
denominated bad luck is merely the result of fol
ly or negled:. The few extraordinary instances,
where men are suddenly elevated ordeprcfledby
a contingency which their agency did not con
t-roul, fliould neither cherifli the hopes of the fool
ilh *nd indolent, nor damp those of the prudent
and indultrious.
A prize iu a lottery, or the death of a rich friend
nay throw a worthless fellow into affluence ; but
uch a circumstance furnifhes no argument that
'rovidence usually bellows its bleflings, where
hey are not deserved. Nor, on the other hand,
where the fubftanceof a diligent man isaccident
dly destroyed by fire or tempest, can it be infer
ed that diligence is not ordained in the conlti
otion of nature, as the common road to wealth
tnd diftintflion. Extraordinary events do not
uithorife general hopes or fears. There are in
:he natural world appearances which sometimes
work against the usual course of things, but they
never defeat the general tendency of the ellablifh
td laws of nature. In the moral world likewise
we often behold occurrences that seem to contra
dict the idea that Providence regulates the affairs
of men by a well-ordered economy, that depends
for its fucoefs, principally on human agency.
That kind of rivallhip which fortune maintains
with wifdoin,fhould operate upon men foas to sti
mulate their efforts, and improve their circum
fpecftion. The lucky contingencies which ren
der the progress of f'ome persons so smooth and
prosperous areowingmore than is commonly sup
posed to just calculations, and persevering appli
cation. It is true, that many circumstances oc
cur where the effe<fi of personal agency is not vi
sible j but still there maybefome remote connec
tion between causes that appear hidden, and those
that are obvious. The chain of events is con
nected in such amanner, that we can never know
exadtly the power that binds or separates the
links. We can however distinguish enough to fa
tisfy a reasonable mind, that in the ordinary run
of affairs, happiness is united with virtue ; and
interest is promoted by an attention to duty.
from the Virginia Independent Chronicle.
Te New-Ekgland, New-York, Pennsylvania
and Carolina
Dear Sisters,
I HAVE feeu your familiar epistle, and really
thought it mud be the production of some ene
my to the whole family. Under these impressions,
I expe&ed to fee you all in an uproar,calling on
the printer for the author. I conceived that your
own credit, as well as the reputation of the fa
Uiily, required it i but by your filende you have
fconvinced me that it is your own. Ah fillers !
however treacherous your memories are, the
world recollect wheityour cries of murder, rape,
starve, reverberated from pole to pole, and it is
with a bleeding heart I recolle<ft what numbers of
my sons fell in your defence. What can my dear
lifters mean i Why am I twited in the teeth with
many of my farms being untenanted, that I boall
of the largeness of my purse, and such envious,
malicious raving, as fheweth what termgants my
fillers are. I can tell them that so many of my
farms would not have been untenanted" if great
numbers of my lons had not fallen in their de
fence. And as for my being in debt, it is a proof
that I havebad credit; little thanks are due to those
who never had credit that they owe nothing.
But I suppose iny fillers think they have cured all
by their great condescension in allowing some
merit to my son George. To be sure they shall
have credit for that, but I can tell them that my
sons Dickey, Bill and James, too, are not to be
brow-beaten or frightened by any of their bluf
teringboys. I once thought that some of you my
dear fillers, were very religious; but methinks
you seem disposed to convince the world that it
is othei wife. Your levity, your wit and freedom
with omnipotence is big with impiety. It is blas
phemous, and would have exposed ftritfi civilized
heathens to capital pu liftnnent. What do myfif
&Mit?
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 9, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK.
SATURDAY, MARCH, 27, 1790.
ters want ? They have shared my bread with me
when they were in want. I have given up a mod
important and valuable part of my farm for the
benefit of the whole family. Has any of my sons
Pegged favors and courted exalted places and
h:gh employments ? Where is it that the aching
heart is throbbing for founding titles ? And where
does the fentintent of well-born originate ? Where
is the third for the diftin<flion of birth and blood,
which has made tyrants and opprefTors of a few,
while the multitude drag ignominious chains ?
Look at home, my dear fitters, before you upbraid
me. You may if you please, make a comparison
between the belt of your sons and mine during
the conflict,when all our farms were proscribed.
And you may, if you please, add to my disgrace,
by publishing a true slate of the expenditure from
each of ourpurfes to pay the public debt, and to
support the copartnery, this, as things are now
organized, is easily done, and this will fairly
shew whether a local, partial, and parsimonious
spirit did not govern in the clamor upon the pro
ptfed tax upon
Ah, fillers J my sons are in a great measure
proscribed from a right to take any of the lands
which I threw into the common stock. You will
retort that my sons will not come because they
mutt not bring their negroes.—Ay fitters ! this
is against the copartnery—the interett of the com
pany requires that the land should be free at
least to all the parties—but while my sons are kept
from the market, your sons may perhaps pur
chase cheaper, and you have the choice of land
more in your power. What allow the iniquitous
the abominable slave trade to be carried on under
the law of the land in some places, and proscribe
others from a right to bring their property with
them, when perhaps the intention and design
tha r many would have in going there would be
to enable them to emancipate their poor slaves
with propriety.—So it is urged that a poor igno
rant slave who has not learned to provide for
himfelf. and is totally ignorant of the arts which
a designing world will impose upon him, is in a
better condition under the care of a good matter
than he is like to be in on his own account.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, MARCH 9.
THE proposition for afluming the State debts being under con
sideration.
Mr. Shirman. As the Secretary has given us the necelTary
information refpe&ing the provision for payment of interest on
the State debts--the aflumption it is to be presumed will be agree
able to the States in general ; having them all placed on one foot
ing, and cme system of revenue pervading the union—the resources
will be brought forwaid with more justice and equality, with
more certainty and effect, than on any other plan—and the belief
that this measure will be agreeable to ihe people is Strengthened
by the idea that the States are averse to excifcJ—without which no
provision can be made (except dry taxes) to pay the State creditors
their inteieft; the fubjeft has been fully difcuued and I think that
we are now prepared for a decision, and I cannot but hope that
we shall adopt the proportion before the committee.
Mr. Bland said he had long been convinced that the proposition
before the committee involved a qucftion of the utmost impor
tance to the peace, honor and tranquility of the United States. It
is the gordian knot of indissoluble onion, every plea of justice,
policy and equity loudly call upon us to -dopt the measure—and
whether we do or not at the present time, certain it is, the time
will corn when we mull do it. The State creditors have an equal
claim with those of the union—hut if their demands are not
attended to, it.they ftiould be left without any provision for the
interest on their fccuritics—that (peculation which has been so
much reprobated by this house, will come in upon us like a flood
— the State securities will be depreciated to the lowefl ebb, and
the creditors reduced to total despair of ever obtaining justice from
their country. He thought that every pollible degree of attention
had been paid to the fubjeft—that it had been thoroughly inves
tigated, and he hoped the committee would now come to a de
cision, the affirmative of the proposition should receive his hearty
j concurrence.
Mr. Page was opposed to the proposition, as it involved the
riccedity of direst taxes and excises—these he was afraid would
Cerve to revive the ancient jealousies of the States ; those jraloufies
appeared to be subsiding and dying away 1 but this mealure will
have a dired tendency to revive them—bcfides it willconfiim the
predictions of the enemies of the constitution, when ttiey asserted
that the general government tended to a consolidation, and would
eventually swallow up the Slate governments—he added ruany o
thcr remarks and wi filed that the proposition might be pal Ted
Mr. Bland rose to reply to Tome observations which had fallen
from his Hon. colleague—he was surprised to find any gentleman
so fqueamith at this time of day on the fubjeft of dn eft taxes—
before the adoption of the constitution this fqueamifhners might
have been pfopcr i but since the ratification, all observations of
that kind appeared to be entirely out of season. It appeared to
him from the firft that the adoption of thr constitution would neces
sarily absorb all the efficient revenue of the United States.
This bein» the cafe, in what situation will you leave the credit
ors of the Sta°te governments ? He then adverted to the particular
merits of the State creditors, and said that the State debts were in
fafl the debts of ihe United States—he replied to sundry observa
tions of Mr Jackson who had informed the house that Georgia
had called in its securities and funk them, and said that the gen
tleman's account of the fate which attended the securities of the
State ot Georgia, was directly in favor of the afTumpiioß—for it
evidently (hewed that the creditors of the State* could not depend
on receiving justice at the hands of the Slate legiilatures ; on the
whole, he observed that he had waited to hear arguments in op
position to the riieafure which should carry cbrtvitlioii to his own
mind—hitherto hfe had not heard any such arguments, and there
fore he should consider hirtifelf fully juftified, on the principles he
before advanced, in vokihg for the affuftiptibn.
Mr. Page made some observations in reply to Mr. Bland, and
observed that the observations he had offered were not the refuk
of fqueamifhnefs, they were founded on facts and experience,
which he thought fully juftified the apprehenflons he had express-
Mr. Scdt rose and said, that he was well aware that adopt
ing the proposition would operate in favor of some States, to the
certain prejudice of others,and it would be well if a day of retribu
tion could be fixed, that might equalize the business ; but he
could not look forward to that day—-he feared it would never
arrive; yet, under the inipreffton that it was a great national
effoTt,and that the State debti were incurred in the common cause
of the union, he would vote for the proposition;
Mr. Lee wasoppofed to the propofition,and forthfc following rea
sons. He said he did not fee the neceflky of irififtinguport theaffum
ption «f these debts at the present moment. He had 110 doubt of the
justice and policy of the measure, if it could be effe£led on e
quil principles, but if the alfumption was not made on
such principle*, it would operate iri such a mariner as to countc-«
nance oppreftion, and disturb the public harmony. It is well
known, Mr. Speaker, said he, that the exertions of the several
states have b*en very unequal, and it Is as well known that out
present resources are also unequal to the public demand: Sir, we
must extend bur refoiirces to make provifioil for the present debt
of the union ;we mufl extend them still further} f we assume the
slate debts ; and whatever system tif taxation may be proposed, it
will require two or three years to bring it into any thing like an
effectual operation. He thought the most eligible mode of pro
ceeding, would be, to adjust the accounts firft, and after such ad
justment to pledge the faith of the union that they would assume
the state debts after the general account was liquidated and fettled.
He wished to know, he said, whether any inconvenience could
arise from purfuinz a line of conduit so rational in itfelf ? Gen
tlemen had after tea, and he saw no reafort to doubt their assertion,
that these accounts might be fettled in the course of two years, in
which opinion the rerpe&able officcr coincided, who was the au
thor of the proposition; do gentlemen expect, continued he, that
the resources can be provided in a less time than two
years, there could be no one of information that could entertain
the idea. If then, the accounts could be fettled within the time
that should be allowed for the provision of the resources upon
which these debts were to be funded, he asked, whether it would
not be more prudent, as well as more likely to give general fatis
fa&ion, to make a provisional adoption, or pledging the faith of
the government to assume the debts at the expiration of two years.
He mould therefore vote against the original proposition, which,
i f negatived, he would theli move A resolution in fubftanee to what
he had exprefTed.
Mr. Vining. Afterthe very full and able difcufTionjwhich this im
portant queflion has received, it is with diffidence and relu&ance
that I venture, especially after my long but unavoidable absence
from the house, to obtrude my felt at this time on the committee.
When I reflect, however, that this absence has been employed in
pursuit of the best information which could tend to guide and
aftift myjudgment, I feel some relief from my embarrafment. In
viewing this fubjeft as an abftraft question of finance, and merely
relative to the individual states, I confefs I behold it as in some
degree operating injustice, and, in its effetts, unequal; but when
I consider it in a more national point of view, as diffufive of ge
neral advantages, and favorable to,perhaps the permanency as well
as the interest of the union; lam compelled to yield small local
regards to a more enlarged and e&tenfive policy. Bat, continued
he, in estimating those local facrifices I would endeavor to com
pare the value of theobjeft together with the certainty of attaining
it, with the consideration which is as an equivalent offered. In the
present cafe some facrifices are to be made at the altar of accomodate
on and general convenience. By the state which I have the ho
nor to rcprefent, those facrifices will m proportion, be very
great. She hasnot only provided for the interest of her particular
debt, but has made connderable progress towards the payment
of its principal This places her in a peculiar situation ; and;
unless some modification should be ultimately made, it might be
considered as somewhat oppressive and unjust. But as for this
modification, as far as it regards this peculiar cafe, I (hall wait
with a firm reliance on the justice and accomodating spirit of the
house, until the bill shall be introduced, when; I trust, such pro
vision will be made as will comport with the true interests ps the
United States. I confefs, Sir* in the contemplation of this fub
jeft so many difficulties appear oh efery hand, that I yet feel myi
felf at a loss how to determine, or to what fourcci to apply for
fafe information. I find the public mind influenced by so **iany
and in such opposite dire&ions, that 1 find it difficult, if not tm
prafticable, to furnifh myfelf with any guide from thence which
can either solve my doubts or lead me to a fatisfattory conclusion.
The opinions of intelligent individuals are equally various and
fluftuatitig: ThuSfituated 1 feel as if I were on a precipice sur
rounded with imminent dangers, and where a single falfe step
might prove forever fatal.
In this dilemma, continued Mr. Vining, all that is left me, is
fairly to balance, as far as my mind is able to embrace them, the
inconvenierlcies with the advantages on both fides, and from the
result to form the best determination in my power. I believe,
that on principles of drift and rigid justice the assumption of the
. state debti would be inadmiflible; but there are cases in politics,
as well as in jurisprudence, where theJurtlmun jtls would befum
rna injuria ; and there are in fiances also in politics where partial
evil mav be considered as univcrfal good, and, if there ever wast
a cafe of this kind, perhaps it is exhibited in the one now before
the committee. I am also convinced, that a very considerable parfc
of the debt which we ar« about to assume, has been in lttyny in*
stances improVidentlv, in some, unjustly iricurred. The union
has been chaiged with expenccs, the benefit of which has been
solely appropriated to individual states ; and I sensibly feel, Sir,
that connderable disadvantages must necessarily arise to the meri
torious and complying parts of the union to the benefit of those
which have not been so forward. It is also a painful anticipation
to me, that by this measure a direct taxation may be ultimately
superinduced, in order to enable us to fulfil the erigagement we
now undertake; but I look upon this as a speculative point, and
place it at all events, at a very distant period, and even should
our appreheflfions upon this fubje& btf realized, I find great con
folat ion from the facility of payment which such an increased
circulation will immediately produce, and from a policy which I
sincerely believe will contribute to the harmony of the union.
Upon the whole, Sir, as far as an unfinifhed consideration of thia
important fubjett will allow me to go—from the general and ex
tensive influence and affe&ion which wUI immediately arise from
VIRGINIA.
&
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR.ANNtfic great augmentation of the number of friends to the govern
*nent" cemented by the tie of intereft—from the uniformity of re
gulation, which will pervade your revenue fyftem—from a con
templation, also, of the state debts, and the fair claim ariftng from
thence to a general funding principle, I (hall give to the resolution
my concurrence.
Thus have 1 disclosed to the committee some of the leadiug
ideas which have influenced my determination. The nature, the
novelty, and the importance oftheobjeft led metoconfidei it upon
a large and national scale. My sentiments w£re in this view (üb
niitted to the committee. I have launched my barque on the fe
deral occarj, and will endeavour to steer her course—
and should* fne arrive at her deftmed port, with her invaluable
cargo fafe and unhurt, I (hall not regret that in her voyage through
these unexplored depths, (he may have loft some small (hare of her
which may be considered as a cheap purchafefor the fafetv
of the whole.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10.
In committee of the whole on the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury for making provision for the fuppoitofthe public credit.
The hi ft alternative in the sth proportion, was read with the
amendment proposed by Mr. Boudiuot, viz.
To receive a certificate drawing an interest of 6 per cent per an
num,payable in 10 years for the other J of the debt, which certi
ficate shall be received as fpeaie, in payment for the lands in the
western territory.
Mr. Sherman observed, that if the alternative proposed by the
Secretary, is adopted, one third part of the debt, principal and
intereft,will be exunguiftied; but the amendment contemplates an
encreafe of the debt, for one third at an interest will in the course
of 10 years amount to an enormous sum. He adverted to th fe«
veral aiterna ive?, and supposed that among the number every de
scription of creditors will be fatisfied. If the alternative should
be adopted, he should move to strike out the 20 cents per acre
to leave the piice a blank in order to wait for the report of the Se
cretary on the fubjefl of the western territory.
Mr. Boudinot repeated hisobjrftion to the proposal of bring
ing such a quantity of lands to market.
Mr. Fitzfimons said he had wiihed the gentleman would have
"withdrawn his motion for striking Out the western territory. He
observed that the alternative proposed by the gentleman would
place the creditors in a much worse situation than they would
Ibnd upon the plan of the report ; the proportion of the Secretary
•iocs not involve any compulsion—is the creditors chufe to take
the land, they can do it, if not, they may receive their 4 per cent,
and wait for the reftdue till therefources of the country are ade
quate to paying them. He said that the £Qf the debt* placed in
the situation the gentleman propofes,will amount to upwards of 40
millions in ten years—certificates issued on this plan will induce a
lyftem of speculation beyond »U idea that any pet Ton can form.
Mr. Boudinot still (upported his motion and expatiated on the
confluences which would result from the adoption of the alter
native .
Mr. Hartley. I wish not to throw unnecefTiry embarralTinents
in tnc way of the original motion to which the amendment under
consideration is offered. But fomc difficulties haveluggeftcd them
lclves to my mmd. I could wilh they were obviated.
If the truth is as some gentlemen fay, who advocate the rcfoiu
tfon without the amendment, that the western lands are fufficient
to redeem one third of the debt, why not pledge them for the re
demption, and place them under the direction of officers appoint
ed by government to fell or difpofc of tliem—and adminifler the
property instead of individuals—and let the money arising there
irom beapplied to discharge the public debt ?
I fear that the creditor who fubferibes to the redeemable fund
agreeably to the resolution, immediately puts one third of his
debt in jeopardy ; or at least he can consider it but of small value.
Few men would a& for themselves and take up lands—and ve
few cases would bear the expence of an agency.
From the complexion of the report it appears that a reduttion
ol interest is intended,
For a* the redeemable alternative or proportion is rather ex
ceptionable for the reasons which have been given, the creditors
will be obliged to subscribe to the irredeemable funds, and they
will experience a loss of near five per cent, foi the supposed com
pensation will go but a little wav.
Poflibly government may be charged with duplicity.
The original holder, the bona Jide purchaser, may perhaps have
fomc reason to complain—fix per cent, was promifcd, but oue third
is reduced.
lam also apprehensive that other bad consequences may follow
the redu&ion of the interest.
Interest here is at fix per cent, and not a fufficient quantity of
money to be loaned at thcit 10 supply the demand ; the people
will not wifti to hold fecunties *nich produce so finall au inter
est as four per cent.
In Europe money can be borrowed at three percent.
Europeans will examine our funds and purchase our seCurities
at low rates. The revenues of America will be carried to foreign
countries. We may in truth become the tributaries of foreign
citizens to a great extent ; to the great injury of the agriculture,
manufactures and commerce of the United States.
Thofc difficulties have struck me. I think with the gentleman
from Jerfey,that the western lands (hould be pledged lor the re
demption of one third of the debt, and officers (hould be appoint
ed to dispose of them—and that certificates,fuch as are mentioned
in the amendment,orfomewhat fimilar,fho«ld be received in pay
ment.
This might perhaps be offered as a separate alternative—l am
for the principle—and as the idea for a separate alternative is not
iully fecondcd, I (hall,as atprefent informed,vote for the amend
ment—though I shall always.hold myfelf op n to convi&ion.
THURSDAY, MARCH u.
In committee of the whole on the report of the Secretary of the
Trealury, for making provision for the support **f the public cre
dit—the following prcpofnion was read, vie.
To have the whole sum funded at an annuity, or yearly interest
of tour per cent, irredeemable by any payment exceeding five dol
lars per annum on account both of principal and interest ; and to
receive as a compensation for the redu£tion of interest, fifteen dol
lars and eighty cents, payable in lands, as in the preceding cafe.
The motion to reje& the propofilion was discussed.
Mr. Sherman. This proportion is to fund the debt at 4 per cent',
and if the evidences of the debt are to go out of the country, I
should be in favor of having as much of itfufided at that rate as
poflible. He thought the proportion a favorable one in this view,
and he was again ft ftrikmg out.
Mr. Sedgwick. The irredeemable,quality of this proportion ap
pears to be the chief obje&ioo in the minds of gentlemen—finct
it appears conceded on all hands, lhat a ftrift literal compliance
tvith the prccife terms of the original contradfc at the present mo
ment cannot be mad?, and a modification of Jit is the aeceflary re
sult—it becomes a lubje& of enquiry how we lhall best meet the
ideas and acquiescence of the creditors, and conciliate the appro
bation of our conft:tuents. In this view, holding out different al
ternatives app- ais to be a proper measure, and among those al
ternatives the principle of irredeemability seems to offer itfelf,
as a mean of acquiring the concurrence of a particular class of
creditor*—others will prefer other modes of funding their de
mands—hence the advantage, propriety and jufticeot holding out
various proportions ; and as he was fully pcrfuaaed that the pub
lic opinion would concur in every de lion which appears to be
the result ot calm deliberation and a thorough investigation of the
State of our country and the circumstances of our constituents, he
doubted not that gg out of ico, of the public creditors would
iubferibe to the loan ; the principle is not ilriftly irredeemable—
*t provides for a gradual extinction of the debt, and within a prriod
which will be as fliort as any person can contemplate, as within
the probable capacity of the country to do it.
Mr. Fitzfimons after premising that the several proportions ap
peared to depend on each other; fa;d, with refpett to irredeem
ability, he had his doubts.
He did not think that this idea would meet the approbation of
the people ; on the other hand, they generally conceived that a
public debt was a great public disadvantage, and would be for
getting rid of the burthen as soon poflible, the habitual mode
of refle&mg on this fubje& is opposed to a perpetual debt ; I con
fefs I have my difficulties refpe&ing this principle ; I could wifti
that the period could be ihortened, so that the eventual extinftron
should take place as soon as the abilities of the people would ad
mit of it.
Mr. Madison was in favor of reducing the number of the al
ternatives,a simple, unembarrassed fvftem is to be prefered.
Mr. Seney also objetted to the aaoption ofr the several propor
tions as in the report ; it would render the funding fyllem com
plex, and introduce such a series Of calculations, as to convert the
whole into an intricate science, which would" be above the com
prehension of persons in general ; and being made an object by
particular persons would give them great advantages in speculat
ing in the funds ; for these reafooshc hoped the propoAtion would
be struck out.
Mr. Sherman observed that if the whole debt was in the hands
of the citizens of the United States he lhould think it unnecefTary
to introduce the irredeemable principle into the system ; but as
between 4 and 5 million* are in the hands of foreigners, and it is
as necessary that that part (hould be funded as well as the reft, to
induce them to reloan at 4 per cent, and to accommodate some
part of the plan to their ideas, he thought as this part of the sys
tem would not operate to the injury of the United States he was id
favor of its adoption. He thought it bed that the debt (hould be
kept in the United States as much as poflible : he considered it an
unfavorable circuinftance to have it in the hands of foreigners ;
but as they were in pofTeflion of such a proportion he was for
making the best terms that we could.
Mr. Page reprobated different propositions ; he was in favor
of a Ample plain fy(lem,commenfurate to the apprehension of men
of plain, common understandings. He contrasted the different
lpeciej of paper with different forts of coin, and Ihdwed there
was no similarity.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 34.
Sundry petitions were read, and laid on the table.
The Secretary for the Department of War laid before the Houfc
sundry reports on memorials and petitions from officers of the late
army, which had been referred to him.
Hon. I. B Alhe, member from the State of North Carolina,
appeared, was qualified, and took his feat this day.
The House receded from their amendment to the amendment
proposed by the Senate to the Appropriation bill, and concurred
with the Senate.
Tiie amendment proposed by the Senate to the bill, providing
for the remission of fines, forfeitures, and penalties in certain cases,
was read, and taken into coofideration
This amendment provides, that judgment on forfeitures incur
red in particular cases above a certain sum, (hould be ultimately
referred to the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State,
and the Attorney General of the United States : With a proviso
granting full relief in cases of feiiure in future not justly founded.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) Hated some obje&ions to this amendment.
Mr. Livermore, wasalfooppofedto it, as changing the princi
pal of the bill altogether, and introducing an entire new ad, very
'diffetentirom that palled by the house!
t Mr ' Sherman observed, that it was true the proportion of the
Senate materially altered the bill; (till he thought it a real amend
ment: It will lengthen the process; but it will eventually
procuce drift Justice, and tend more effedually to fecare the re
venue, and guard against impositions.
Mr, Goodhue objefied to the proposition, and observed, that
Jo far from affording any relief, as contemplated in the bill, we
Ihould be juflas well of without any bill at all. He inOanced the
cafe of a person who Ihould happen to incur, unintentionally, a
penalty in the State of Georgia ; he must fend to the feat of govern
ment to obtain a decision on his cafe—meantime from the perilh
able nature of his cargo as may happen, his property at all events
is facrificed—He hoped the amendment would not be acceded to
Mr Jackfou was opposed to it on similar principles,andobferved
mat he Ihould prefer that ihe judge ofthe diftria court Ihould
be empowered to give a final determination ; he considered the
judge as competent at the officers of State at the feat of government
—and in a more rcfponfiblc situation.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) spoke largtly on the fubjeft—and in opposi
tion 10 the amendment.
Mr. Gerry objcftcd io the proportion as unconstitutional—-as
the appointing the heads of departments as judges in this cafe, is
to all itiuuls dnd purpose« eftabli&ing a board of commiflioners
with judiciary powersi; and is an indirect, and not very delicate
attack on the power of the President and the Senate of the United
States.
Mr. Sedgwick was opposed to the former part of the amend
ment, but Wjlhed that the latter part might be adopted. He dif
from Gerr ) h y observing that he conceived there was
n " ms mattefs of th, » nature to officers already ap-
Mr. Sherman proposed a committee of conferrence.
Mr. Burke was in favor of the motion.
Mr. Law ranee t " Ur<:d ln 'o a general consideration of the fub
jea of fines and forfeitures These he observed were ongmally
defigncdas guards to the fafe and etfeftual coll<-a,on of the reve
nue ; and in this view they ought to be as nearly ineyiiable as is
any ways confident with mercy to individuals, and iuftice to the
public at large. The contemplation of a mitigation of these fines
and forfeitures ought to be managed with a great deal of circum
fpefbon—that such difficultly may be thrown in the way of get
ting r,d of those forfeitures, as may preventcarelefs and incautious
violations ol the law ; he added many more observations—and
concluded by f ying that he could wilhthe I,ft part of the propo
fitionlhould be adopted but with refped to the former, he had
not so fujly digested the fubiea as to be able at the present time
tog.ve h.sopiD.oru-bcwilhed therefore that the bill might hi
on the table for a few days.
i l um '"S ,on said he had always been opposed to the bill
as absurd and improper—for if a law is neccffary in the n.efent
cafe to mitigate fines, &c. .ncurred for breaches of the revenue
law, we (hall ast incontinently with ourftlvcs, if we do not pass
laws t. abate punifhrnents ,n oiher cases. He believed no paral
lel can be produced in any country of laws similar to the one pro
pofed-it is referring matter, of judicial determination to a chan
celloratc unknown to the eonftitution. He w.lhcd therefore that
the bill might be luffered to lie on the table—never more to be
taken up—if a committee of conference is appointed, he had no
doubt this would be the ilfue of the business
dif?g n r«d?o. efti ° n bdng taken - thc amen dinent of the Senate was
A committee of conference was then appointed, confiftine of
Mr. Ames, Mr. Huntington and Mr. Jackson
Mr. Sedgwick moved that a committee be appointed to conf.der
and report what prov.fion thall be made for the support of the
officers of the fuprcme judicial court. V
The motion was ordered to be laid on the table
Mr. Lee moved forleaveto bring in a bill further to suspend the
operation of part of the collection ar,d tonnage laws-the mot on
was laid on the tab]e. " lOHOn
On motion of Mr. Lawrance, the engrossed bill making pro
vision for perf«n, employed m the intercourse between Unued
t cc Si[ ' Ad! 0 g u"r"d UOni W " U ' lu " :m,Utd = commit-
-398-
THURSDAY, MARCH 2J.
Sundry petitions were read;
Mr. Gilman of the committee of enrolment, broueht in th, mi
making appropriations for the support of government for th,
'790, and the b.ll for u.ifor™ rule of natX
tiou, enrolled—which had been examined bv the commute in 'i
found correal ; the speaker then signed the fame.
A motion was then made that the hoafe fbould go into ■,
mittee of the whol* on the bill refpeamg the South Western fron"
tiers. S une objefhon was made to the immed.ate adoprio.nf
the motion as interesting and important intelligence was daily
expc&ed from Governor Sinclair.
The motion being put was carried in the affirmative—and the
galleries were thereupon fnut.
FRIDAY, MARCH 2 «.
Mr. Livermore presented a petition from the inhahiimt. „r
Portsmouth, (N. hJ refpeaing certain duties onxonnage; and alb
praying that the diftria court may be holden in that place onlv
In committee of the whole Houfe.~-Mr. Bond.notSn ihechaV
The bill to prevent the exportation of not duly infpeaed
according to the laws of the feveralStates, wai taken intotonGder
ation. -
Mr. Lavermore objeaed to the bill, as an unconstitutional inter
ference on the part ot Congrcls with the powers of the refpeclive
States. The Constitution, fa.d he, has expressly reserved to the fe
vera I States the power of making their own infpeaion laws and
the power of executing them is infeparablv conned • Those
laws will doubtlefj be executed without an' interference on ot,f
part. ur
Mr. Smith,(S.C.)obferved,that theobjea of thebill is to make it
the duty of the colleaors to attend t® the execution of the State
Infpea.on Laws, it having formerly been the duty of the State
Colleaors: Since the appointments were made by the United
States, the officers did not conceive themselves bound to pav M "r.
ticular attention to those laws. "
Several other gentlemen spoke on the fubjea, and the great im
portance of such laws, and their punflual execution were enlar"'
ged op.
The Committee finally agreed to fomeamendments,which were
adopted by the House; ajid the bill was ordered to be enjroffed
for a third reading on Monday next.
In committe of the whole on the bill for accepting the cefTioo
made by the State of North Carolina of certain laods'therein def
cribed.
In the preamble to the bill, the words The Honor able "
were prefixed to the names of the Senators from North Carolina.
Mr. Page moved that those words should be (truck out. He ob
served that however honorable the gentlemen might be, and he was
ready to acknowledge they were truly so ; yet agreeable to the
usage of the House, he conceived there was an impropriety in giv
,n o any titles. He hoped never to fee the time when a legislative
fa 11#ion should be given to such diftinftions. If a permanent
aflriftocracy w*s ever among us, it wouldbe thro this
medium : Such titles have been productive of infinite tnifchicf in
other countries : They are anti-republican, and as such cannot
be conferred with any propriety by this House.
Mr Sedgwick obftfrved, that if the Hon. gentleman was ready
to acknowledge the Senators from the State of North-Carolina
were truly honorable characters, he could fee no mifchief or im
propriety in faying so ; it comports with the usage of the several
States : but, he considered it as a matter of trifling
sb" l^C comm ' ltcc would not spend time in altercating the
Mr. Page made some reply to Mr. Sedgwick, and the vote be
ing taK.en, it pasTed in the affirmative by a great majority, 2nd
the words were struck out.
A condition in the ast of cclTion, relative to the emancipation
of llaves---that Congress should not (as in the ast for the govern
ment of the western territory) provide for their freedom—occa
iioruo some debate ; an amendment was proposed and debated—
but not adopted.
rhe committee reported the bill with the above amendment
only—which was agreed to bv the House.
Mr Gilman of the committee of enrolment, informed the
House that, the appropriation and naturalization bills were pre
entrd to the President of the United States for his approbation,
t e 25th instant. Adjourned to Monday.
The committee of the whole house, to whom was referred the
report ot the committee on the memorial of tht people called
Quakers,and of the Pennfylvau* andNew-York focietics for pro
moting the abolition of slavery, agreed to the following—which
wa» entered on the journals :
1 hat the migration or importation of such persons as any ofthe
tales now existing shall think proper to admit, cannot be pio
by Congrefc p , lor to the year i 808.
• ' !p OD 6 rc 's hive no authority to interfere in the emancipa
tion of (laves or in the treatment of them within any of the States,
it remaining with the several States alone, to provide any regula
tl(>Th humanity and true policy may require.
hat Congress have authority to restrain the citizens of the Uni
tatcs rora carrying on the African trade for the porpofe of
applying foreigners with Oaves, and of providing by proper re
gulations for their humane treatment, during the passage of
aves imported by the citizens, into the said States admitting such
importation.
Annapolis, March 18.
The following is the Addrefi of the General-Ajfenblj
of Maryland to the President of the United Statet.
t^l^genera l afiembly of Maryland, avail
ourselves of the firll occasion afforded us,
since your election to the office of President ofthe
United States, of expreiling to you our gratitude
ior accepting that truly honorable, yet arduous
station ; and of mingling our gratulations with
thole of our country on this auspicious event.
With pleasure we anticipate the bleflings which
thefeftates will derive from the firmnefsand wis
dom of youradminiftration. The past proofs of
your refpetft for the rights of your fellow-citi
zens, amidst the din of arm* and rage of war, are
a sure pledge that these rights will be equally re
fpedled and cherished by you in peace.
In this place, from which we now address you,
our predeceflors lately saw theaffetfting scene of
their patriot chief resigning his military com
mand, having fully accomplished its glorious ends.
The lapse of a few years having proved the in
adequacy of the late confederacy to the attain
ment of its objects, it affords fubjeft ofthe most
pleasing reflexion, that in the change which be
came necellary to the fafety and welfare of the
people of America, the President ofthe United
States Ihould be the fame person to whom fhey
were indebted for a long series of the molt iu'por
tant, glorious and disinterested services.
1 his people have unanimously called upon you
to prelide over their common under awell founded hope, that having afl'erted tlieir in
dependence by your Ikill in war, your wisdom and
firmiiefs in peace will avert the dangers of civil
discord, andeftablifh their union on so firm a ba
ils that it will endure to the lateftages.
We refledl on these things with gratitude, and
that for you the Angular happiness was reserved
X>f being twice the saviour of jour country.
May that kind Providence, whose protection
you have frequently experienced in the midst of
many and great dangers, direct your measures,
and long preserve a life, in the preservation of
which such numbers feel themselves so deeply
interested. 3
JOHN SMITH, President of the Senate.
GEORGE DENT, Speaker of'the House ofDelegates
THE ANSWER.
To the General djfembly of Maryland.
Gentlemen,
I RECEIVE, with the liveliest emotions of fatif
fa(tion,your exprellious of gratitude for my hav
ing accepted the office of Prefidcnt of the Uni
ted States,and your congratulations on that event.
From the enlightened policy of the legislature
of the union, in conjunction with the patrio
tic measures of the Hate ailemblies, I anticipate
the bleflings in reserve for these United States ;
and so far as my administration may be condu
cive to their attainment, I dare pledge myfelf
to co-operate with those diftinguiflied bodies, by
constantly refpecfting and cherishing the rights
of my fellow citizens.
Your mention of the place from whence you
address me, awakens a iucceffion of uncommon
reflexions.—ln noticing the eventful period,
since the resignation of my military command,
I trace, with infinite gratitude, the agency of a
Providence, which induced the people of Ameri
ca to substitute in place of an inadequate confede
racy, a general government, eminently calcula
ted tofecure the fafety and.welfare of their coun
try.
The good dispositions of this people, and their
increasing attachment to a government of their
own iuftitution, with the aid ofwifdomand firm
nefs in their common councils, afford a well found
ed hope, that the danger of civil discord may be
averted, and the union eftabli/hed on so solid a
basis that it may endure to the latest ages.
When I refled: on the critical situation to which
this country has been more than once reduced, I
feel a kind of exultation in the character of my
countrymen, who have rescued it from the threat
ened ruin by their virtue, fortitude, intelligence
and unanimity.
thank you for the favourable sentiments
which you are pleased to express of my public
condudt, and for the affectionate interest which
you have the goodness to take in the success of
my nieafures, and theprefervation of my health.
1 pray for the divine Benedictions on you, gen
tlemen, and on your State.
Address of the Town of Alexandria, to the honora
ble Thomas Jefferfon, Esquire.
Alexandria, nth March, 1790.
Si r,
YOU have returned to your native country.
Permit us, the inhabitants of Alexandria, to
join with the reft of our fellow-citizens in the
warmest congratulations to you on that happy
event. As a commercial town, we feel ourselves
particularly indebted to you for theindulgencies
which your enlightened representations to the
Court of France have secured to our trade. You
have freed commerce from its fliackles and def-,
troyed the firll ellay made in this ,country to
wards eftablifhing T a monopoly. But we allure you
that these events, though more recent, are not
more deeply imprefled on our minds, than the
whole tenor ot your condmft, when we were
struggling in the sacred Cause of Freedom. A
sense of the benefits we have already derived from
your talents and virtue, in the various offices
you have filled, induces us to entertain the inoft
auspicious hopes from vour arrival at this cri
lis, when a Constitution, newly adopted, and
which is to decide the fate of republican forms of
Government, is commencing its operation ; and
•when fubjedcs of the highest importance to the
Union, must neceflarily be difcufled. That you,
Sir, in every walk of life, may meet with the re
ward of your meritorious services, and fulfil the
high expectations of a free and republican peo
ple, is our sincere wifli.
Jn behalf of the citizens of Alexandria,
WILLIAM HUNTER, jun. Mayor.
Thomas Efqulrc.
Alexandria, March ir, 1790.
S I R,
ACCEPT my sincere thanks, for yourfelf and
the worthy citizens of Alexandria, for their
kind congratulations on my return to my native
country.
I am happy to learn that they have felt benefit
from the encouragements to commerce which
have been given by an'allied Nation. jßut truth
and candor oblige me, at the fame time, to de-
G. WASHINGTON.
Clare you are indebted foi- tliofe encout-agements
I 6£ t i? t it fnen . d, y disposition of that Nation,
which has /hewn nfelf ready on every occafionto
adopt all arrangements which misht ftrenjnhen
our ties of mutual interest and friendfliip.
Convinced that the republican is the only form
of Government which is not eternally at open or
secret war with the rights of mankind, my pray
ers and efforts shall be cordially contributed to
the support of that we have so happily establish
ed —h is, indeed, an animating thought that,
while we are securing the rights of ourselves and
our poiterity, we are pointing out the way to
ttniggling Nations, who wish, like us, to emerge
from their tyrannies also. Heaven help tliclr
•truggles, and lead them, as it lias done us, tri
umphantly through them !
Accept, Sir, for yourfelf and the Citizens of A
lexandria, the homage of my thanks for their ci
vilities, and the aflurance of those sentiments of
relpedl and attachment, with which I have the
honor to be, Sir, your most obedient, and most
humble Servant,
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
Wi L LIA MHu KTtßyjun. Efq, Mayor of Alexandria.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FABLE
honest Hodce to Janus came,
His neighbor's Hogs and Sheep to blame ;
Who, tho his fence was good and found,
Found means to break into his ground ;
Janus, with sapient nod and speech,
Declar'd that Law could mend the breach ;
" That plain asnofc on human face,"
Great damages were in the cafe
Quoth Hodce, I'ih glad your tho'ts are mine,
iour's are the breachy Sheep and Swine—
Hold ! cries the lawyer in a fright !
If so—the cafe ii alt. -'d quite.
Thus in political affairs,
Each mortal for the Public cares—•
Taxes on taxes may be laid,
If only by our neighbors paid.
But tax my own peculiar catling, }
Lord ! what a raving, rout and bawling— C
You'd think the very State was falling. S
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE PRESENT STATE OF EUROPE.
TN contemplating the present poftnre of affairs
in the Eastern Hemisphere, a variety of con
tending ideas obtrude on the mind : The result
will be a comparison between the progress of
light, wisdom, and freedom in the old world and
In Rujjia we behold vast armies march
ed from one end of that immense empire to the
other, for the purpose of adding to the extent of
its territory, and the eclat of the Ruffian arms—
when the country already in pofTeffion, is not one
halfpopulated— and the caprices of ambition, but
a few years since thinned the land of millions of
the people. Would an enlightened, free people,
be thusfobfervient to the views of ambition ?
It is more than a century since Peter the
Great, begun the workof civilization ; and yet,
the rays of freedom can scarcely be said to gleam
011 a country, where the whole body of the peo
ple are the property of the crown. But the splen
dors of victory ; the charms of tritunph ; and
the eulogium 011 Princes, Generals, and Heroes,
(the illusions of fancy) are found to counterbal
ance all the poficive miseries of war and despo
tism. The prayer of every benevolent mind must
be, may lightarife in such Egyptian darkness.
In Sweden we behold a Monarch, whose charac
fo f ar ss it unfolds itfelf, impreiles the mind
with favorable sentiments of his wisdom and mag
nanimity— still we are not furnifhed with such
documents as enable us to form a competent
judgment of the reasons which have induced the
war with Russia.
Opinions on this point are various—some ap
plaud—others condemn. Some recent accounts,
indicate, however, that the war is not altogether
popular: Certain extraordinary privileges have
been lately granted to the inferior orders of the
people—and every measure appears to be taken
to keep up thefpirit of hostility against the Ruf
fians.
Sweden was once free—but now it seems, the
Monarch can divest one order of citizens of their
ancient privileges, and bestow them on another,
and still retain his popularity. Can the flame of
freedom befaid to illume fucli a country ?
The commotions in tht Austrian Netherlands
area novel and solemn fpedtacle. It is quite attcw
thing under the fun to behold the fonsof the' Cowl
and the Cord' harnessing on the habiliments of
war, and fighting under the (tandard of freedom.
The Emperor laying (as they term it) sacrilegi
ous hands on the endowments of Monasteries
and Nunneries, and abrogating certain exclusive
privileges, which they had long poffefled, gave
the firlt alarm to the people.
(To be continued.)
399
eulogium on mr. Pitt.
FROM THE STAR. (LONDON.)
I itt has been called,riot Jligmatized, for
it is no reproach till his abilities shall be
tried in war—the Minified of Peace. He has (hewn
hinifelf the redeemer of his country, finking un
der the mifmanagemeiit of a corrupt war-adrnin
iftrarion ; and by his spirit on the late armament",
he has secured alliances which will render us, by
degrees, a tower of strength ; and has given a
proof of what we are to expect on a future emer-
gency.
And how was this great political desideratum
brought about ? With an astonishing addrcfs and
generalship, at the expense of less than hdlf a
million, wliilft a former atrociously degenerated
minister more than doubled our debt, with the
lole consequence of a difinemberment of our A
meiican provinces, loft through negledl, corrup
tion, and the stupidity, obstinacy, and want of
forefight of our councils at home, at which he
presided ex officio.
NEW-YORK, MARCH 27, 1790,
E" lra ' C ? "J " litter from Derby, Conveflicut, Marth 18
The proposed duty on fait u contemplated with great difmft
the exportation ol provisions is become a very important articFe of
commerce ; I yearly pack, up 300 barrels ; the fait amounts to a
conliderable luin—an enhanced duty will make my i rtf and'pork
meet the market at more than a Hulling additional price—now
though the bulinefs is yet thisduty will entirely ■ reak
it up ; our cattle upon a thoufaud hills will be a ufelcls bunh> n on
the earth ; our paiture* will be untenanted, our calvesmuft.be all
kihed—and in Ihoitallthc graziers, butchers, packers* coope,r«
and (h.ppers of provilions will be ruined by this enhanced rimy
on fait.—There are other articles which might be noticed—(hall
only mention/™/; my wife takes a great deal, much to my conl
y°u lna y be lure—the lays if it is made dearer by a new du
ty, noses may as well go out of fafhion.
ExtraCl of a litter from St. Euftatia, dated Feb. To.
" This minute a part of the hill of this place
gave way, and buried a number of the inhabitants
of the lower town in the ruins. The number that
fell victims in this unhappy cataftroplieis not yet
afcertairted."
The brig Minerva, Worth, from this port for
Hudson, took fire on the 24th inft. near Fort Lee;
and was nearly consumed.
The new Church lately built in Broadway oti
the lite of the old Trinity Church, was on Thurs
day last solemnly consecrated and dedicated td
the service of God,, by the' Right Reverend Fath:
er in God, Samuel, Bifhopof theProteftant Epis
copal Church in the State of New York—a (Tilted
by the several gentlemen of the clergy belonging
to the Church. A great number of people were
alTembled on this occasion. The President of the
United States, together withjhe Rev, Clergy of
the different denominations in this city, and many
other persons of diftindtion were present. An
excellent sermon, adapted to the occasion, was
delivered by the Rev. Dr. Beach.
Thursday last a vote waspafled in theHoufeof
Aflembly of this State, declaring vacant the feat
of the Hon. Rufus King, Esq. wio, since his dec.
tion intp the Legislature, has been eledted a Sen
ator for this State in the Congrcfs of the United
States.
The poor mechanics and labourers of Europe,
are turning their thoughts to the United Slates
as an afylutn from all the oppression of defpo: ism,
poverty and wretchedness. At present many ob
stacles are thrown in the'way of emigration
but except their condition is meliorated by adopt
ing a more humane and liberal policy on the part
of their oppreflors, lieceffity will surmount every
impediment, and emigrations to this land of free
dom, will in a great measure depopulate the old
world.—
" Weiward the Ball of Empire rolls."
Measures founded in wisdom, should be tena
ciously adhered to—it is very easy to find faults,
but extremely difficult to devise adequate reme
dies. On matters of finance and revenue, there
are perhaps fewer competent judges than on any
fubjed: whatever—and yet there is none, on
which fuperficial characters are more apt to de
cide with confidence. Propositions for ne.v tax
es are always fruitful topics of declamation—and
the public are not unfrequently abused with the
complaints of persons who pretending a regard
to the general-welfare, excite discontents among
the people, to defeat measures calculated to pro
mote the public good, merely because they ima
gine their private interest will be injured.
Firmness in a minister appears to be an in
dispensable requisite to ensure success.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW YORK.
Brig Sotnerfet, Hunt, Turks-Island.
Brig Ann, Donaldfon, Amsterdam.
——Brig Rebecca, Little, St. Thomas.
——Brig Robert, Douglafs, Kingston.
• Brig Queen of the North, Durand, Cape Francois.
Schooner Rebecca, Swaine, Newbern, (N. C.)
— Schooner Lively, Major, Turk's-Ifland.
—7 —Schooner Charming Sally, Howat, Norfolk.
Sloop Hudson Packet, Coffin, Gaudaloupe.
Sloop Sally, Griffin, St. Martin's.
Sloop Lady Haley, Tillinghaft, Charlcfton.ELEGJACK 'LINES.
To the Memory of Mrs. ABIGAIL JONES.
BY A LADY.
H ! what avails, that round her polifh'd-form
i X. The modest Graces lent each varied charm !
Ah ! what avjils the friend-furrounded bier,
Or e'en a matohls£s hopelcfsrtear !
That Mind, where Virtue rais'd her spotless throne t
Where Bounty fmil'd, and beaming Genius shone i
That Touchy which taught the fweiling notes to roll,
That Voicc, whose warbling wak'd the (lumbering foul,
That Fancy, whence the pencil'd scenes arose,
That Hand, by wji\ch the living Landscape glows,
"Uncoijfcious sleep ! regardless of each care,
Which bursts the heart, and swells th' empaflion'd tear,
The hovering Spirit wings its promis'd way,
And bending Seraphs guard the beauteous clay.
Bright as the Rofc, which finks bcHcath the storm,
.Fair as the gather'diilly's silver form,
Lamented Shade ! (or thee (hall.memory mourn,
And dcathlcfa praise thine hallow'd grave adorn !
With every grace the raptur'd foul to move,
Carcfs'd by fortune, happy in thy love ;
jAh ! when did late in equal Vplendour shine,
pr what blest.Husband knew a jov lUc,e thine !
Won by his worth, by his perfe&ioQS charm'd,
by Hope, by mutual fondnefs warm'd,
£ach opening morn increaftqg
In sCenes of bli'fs each closing day withdrew.
Great God of Wisdom !On thyJuA deoree,
Whai impious mortal dares to question thee !
Why the bUJi Abba yiekls her valued breath,
While the poor suppliant courts the grasp of death,
While forne, whom fad affliction calls her own,
tedious weight of being groan,
In ieciet broathe the unavailing sigh,
And cloud with ceaseless tears the melting eye 1
Or who the hidden springs of fate can find,
What rulir\g direftsthe iearching mind !
Why merit droops, and profp'rous vice beguiles,
Why pity mourn.'*, and rude oppreilion fimles,
.And while the living miscreant laughs at woe,
O'er BEAUTY's Urn the tears of VIRTUE flow.
(AltiJfachufcUs Grnlmtl.)
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
IN your paper, or in fomc other, I have lately fcen ftriflures, on
the funding ot the domcftic continental debt, I mean that branch
of it, which applies to the aflTumptioji of th • bills of credit.
The object of those flriifures if I rightly recoil £t, amounted
to a complaint against the expefled ratio ofafTuraption. This the
writer supposed, would be 40 for I.
He supported hi* ohjc£lion by fayiog that those billi had came
to the poflVffion of many ps the prcfent holders at the rate of 75,
«00, zoo, or £00 for one. Great injustice therefore would be douc
to the public, if by the (ingle ratio of 40 for 1, the whole existing
ballancc (hould be called in.
And Sir, I imagine tint many are sensible that thij single ratio
ps 40 for 1, cajinot be confidcred as forming in any degree, a just
and equitable mode of redemption. The reason ftatcd is not the
only one which exists as an objection, tho it musk be allowed to
be a very favorable one; fori myfelf fiave fcen 14,000 dollars
p&fled at a single Cale at 2-ofor one ; and have aiTurance that
much hath p»fled at ,jqp for j.
But many fay, that toi» mode is highly calculated to mar Pub
lic Taitli ; id injure private property, and deeply to wound some
of the eailieft and firmed friends to the liberties of America, and
to the present C-uiftitution.
It (nais pul»»ic fai,th fay they, becaafe in tbe year »77{, certain
funis, tho not large fums.of thy money were emitted. Its credit
was fupportcd by the mod solemn resolves of Congress. The
twelve confederated colonies were pledged for the redemption of
it. The good friends of the revolution gave it full and ample
credit. Some fold to the quarter misters provifioos from their
farms. Others fold their goods forthe cloathingof thearniy, and
others exclunged coin for it; a< the exigencies of the public, or of
its servants required. Sotne of these identical good friends to the
revolution, have from that day to the piefent, prefervetl this iden
tical money : and nayefor nearly fifteen years patiently waited
the ability of ihofe who lffued and promised, to rtieem.
These friands to Government were supported U) their faith by an
order of Congrcfs of July 29th, A 775. " That each Colony pay
•its refpeflive quote, in four equal annual payments. The firn
payment to be In ad e -on or before the 101 l day of November, 1779,
And so 00 to » as Congress bavc ever qxprc&d ti»eir
intentions of doinj ?mple justice to the creditors, it furelycinoot
be a sault 1 in the creditors, that they bad good faith in Congress,
and patiently watted their ability to execute their good intentions;
but it cannot he"£iid that there will be do fault in Government,
-.when it is fjtid to these creditors, that the reward of your corrfi
dencc apd paticpce is, that you flojll give uptbu mocey at 40 for 1.
J nud not explain how this plan would injure private property,
•nd wound deeply, some, who have good right to protedtion from
the present Constitution—Such do not boast of their numbers ; but
they rel} on thcjjftice of their claim. The fmallnefsof the num
ber, and the final! films they possess, will make the burthen of do
ing justice fit the lighter upon Government j and in addition to
.what hath appeared, afford an opportunity of (hewing, that no
injustice iv<n to an individual is intended, or will be permitted if
it can be prevented-
But how fnall it be prevented is For the mode in
particular I ftiall not pretenct to ditlatc, by faying that a fcalc hav
ing tome refpetl to date, or only refpeft t the time of poflcf
iion, duly proved, might prevent ihe injustice feared—but am
bold to fay, that tlie proprietors of fume part of thole early ernif
fions, while t'jcy fee fuchpains tjken to prevent injuftire, have the
iulleft confidence that their claims will not be overlooked.
GYPSUM, OR PLAISTER OF PARIS.
Experiment by Doctor Log a v, of Psnnfjlvatiia.
EXPERIMENT, No. I,
IM the year I 755, I sowed three acres of alight
isinglass foil, containing a little clay, with bar
ley and clover. In the month of April the fol
lowing year, I divided the field into three parts,
and strewed fix bulhels of French gypsum on No.
I ; the fame quantity of the American gypsum,
brought from the Bay of Fundy, on No. 2, and
left the immediate space, No. 3,' without any,—
On cutting the firft crop that year, little differ
ence could be observed ; the second crop produ
ced double the quantity of grafs,whence the gyp
sum had been put ; and the succeeding year the
difference was still greater in favor of this ma
mi'LEOTA.
PAUCI SED hONESTI,
mire. Early in Otftpber in nS j, the clorer lay
was ploughed once about four inches deep, was
lowed with rye, and in that rough state wag har
rowed. The rye was of a superior quality, and
double the quantity, on No. i and Np. s, than on
No. 3. After harvefl: the rye-ttubble was plough
ed, and sowed with buck-wheat, when a striking
difference was still observable in favor of the
gypsum, and /which continues in the prefeni crop
of Indian coJn.
EXPERIMENT, No. 11.
In April, j I sowed three acres of potatoej
ground ,(a light loam) with barley and clover, j
Just as the barley was above ground, some of the
gypsum wasftrewed diagonally acrofsthe field a
bout 8 feet wide. Little or no difference could
be observed in the barley; but in the month of
September following, there was a striking differ
ence in the clover, in favor of the manure,which
would have afforded a good crop of hay, whilst:
the remainder of the field was but indifferent.—
I have frequently put gypsum upon grain, with
out obfervingany immediate difference in the ap
pearance of the crops.
EXPERIMENT, No. 111.
In April 1786, fix acres of a poor isinglass foil,
lituated on Germantown hill, were sowed with
oats, the ground not having been manured for
20 years ; it produced a crop not paying expen
ces. In April 1 787, one half of the field was co
vered with gypsum, fix buihels to the acre. The
latter end of the fame summer that part 011 which
the manure had been ppt produced good pasture
of blue grass and white clover,whilft the remain
der afforded little but a few scattered weeds. In
Odiober the field was ploughed once, and sowed
with rye ; at harvest the former produced ten
bushels to the acre, the latter not above five.
EXPERIMENT, No. IV.
A field of IJ acres, a light loam, was, in April
1784, sowed with barley and clover; the pro
duce only twenty bushels to the acre, the ground
not having been fufficiently manured. In x? BJ,
it produced a good firft and a tolerable second
crop of clover. In 1 786 the firft crop but toler
able, the second very indifferent, and therefore
pastured. In the spring 1 787, I wiflxed to try if
gypsum would not renew the clover. In the
month of April the whole field was covered with
gypsum, fix bushel* to the acre, except the width
of twenty feet through the middle of the field.
St. John's wort, mullain, and other weeds had
taken such pofleflion of the ground, that altho
the manure produced a great luxuriance ofgrafs,
yet being full of weeds, it did not answer for hay,
and therefore was pastured until October 1788 ;
the whole was then ploughed 8 inches deep with
a strong three horse Dutch plough : Last April it
was well harrowed, and cross ploughed 4 inches
deep with a light two horse plough, leaving the
sod at the bottom. The field was sewed with
spring barley ; at harvest the difference of the crop
was aftonilhingly great in favor of the part where
the gypsum had been put twoyears before. This
grouna is now under wheat and winter barley,
which have a promising appearance ; the rotted
sod being turned up and mixed with the foil, af
fords a strong nourishment to the present crop
EXPERIMENT, No. V.
I put a quantity of gypfuin three yean ago on
several small patches of a tough sod ; it produ
ced a difference in the strength of vegetation,
which is still observable. From the above reci
ted experiments it appears,
ill. That tliere is no difference between the
European and American gypsum.
jd. Thatgypfuui adis as an immediate manure
to grass, and afterwards in an equal degree to
gram.
3d. That one drelfing will continue in foree
several succeeding crops.
To be SOLD,
At PUBLIC AUCTION, on the Firß Day of Ami l next, (if
not Hifpofed of before, at Private Sale.)
'"PHAT pleasant and valuable Place formerly cal
•*- led COLES-FERRY, now by the name of VAN DUZER'S
on Staten Island, Richmond County, with two good futfirient
Pettiaugers for the ferrying business. It is a beautiful situation,
and one of the best stands for a Ferfy, or Tavern, on Staten-Ifland
and an excellent Shad and Herring Fishery within so yards of the
door, Black-Fish, and all other kind of Filh in their season. It
is likewise the best and most convenient Ferry to Long-Ifjand,
where a number of patfmgerspafs and repafs. It lies wiLhin two
miles of the Point of the Narrows, and between 8 and 9 miles from
New-York. There is about 30 acres of excellentgood Land, chief
ly Meadow, with a very good Wharf, House, Barn and Garden—
the whole being in good repair. It will alio make a beautiful
Country Seat, fit for any gentleman.
For Particulars enquire of John Andfrson, corner of the
Exchange,or Cbarlis M'Lean, White Hall, New-York, or
of MeflYs Byerss and Rri l ly, Staten-lOand, or of the Subfcri
hct on tljr premises, where the conditions of sale will be made
known. A B R A H A M VAN D U Z E R
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE
No. 4, Burling-Slij, '
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODs
Amonp; which are the following Articles •
BOOK Muflios 8-4 6-4 5-4. || HUM HUMS,
Jackonct do. j| Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,|| Ca/Tas,
Chintzes, II Seersuckers,
Ginghams, |[ Boglaporcs.
A Variety of liaudfome painted MUSLINS
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for cafli.
-400-
fAJCE CUfiMW- XW-VftoK.
wi.inc,
JAMAICA Spirits, */6.
Antigua Rura, 4/9. m 5/
St. Croix, do. 4/8.
CoMPtry, .do. 3/.
Molasses, tj.
Brandy, 6f6. a 6/3.
Geneva, sj.
iDj. in cfkfes, s&f. ft zgf.
Muscovado Sos a ?&£
Loaf, do. 1/3.
Lump, do. l fi\-
Pepper, 3/3
PIIWCJKSI, if. 4 1/4.
Coffee, 1/7 a IJB.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3f. a (jf.
Do. French, jßf.
Rice, 2 it.
Superfine Flour, *sis.
Common do. 50/!
Rye do. 26f. a 2#/!
Indian Meal, 18/^2of.
R ye, 4/9- pr- bujh.
Wheat, 1 oft.
Cora, (Southern} $f.
Do. (Northern,) 4/3. a nf6.
Beef, firft quality, 4sf. " 48/
Pork, firft quality, 70s. a 75f.
Oats, ijq.
Flax-feea, sis.
Ship bread per cwt. 21f.
Country rsfined >
t>ar-iron, )
Do. blooroery, *$1. < 2 61.
Swedes do. 4sl.
RuiTia do.
Pig-iron, 81 10f. 4 91.
German steel, gd.per lb.
Nails American, by calk. { j
pen ib. 4 d. 5 *
Do. do. do. 6d. i2(l.
Do. do. do. Bd. 9fad.
Do. do. do. lod.)
Do. do. do, 2^d.)
Pot afti, per ton, 391. a 401.
Pearl ash, 481 a 501.
Bees-wax per lb. 2 f
Mackaiel per barr. a€f. cl 30f.
Herrings, 18f.
Mahogany, Jamaica, ( »
per foot, J
Domiaico, do. gd.
Honduras, do. jd.
Logwood uncbippcd,pr.*on.sl.
Do. chipped. 241.
2 inch white oak ) , r
plank, perm. $ *° L 10 /
1 inch do.
2 inch white pine plank, 81.
1J inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 31. 10/f
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
i£ inch do. £1. 10f.
1 inch do. 41.
Pitch pine scantling, 31. Bf.
Cyprus 2 feet ftiingles, il. 1 of.
Do. 22 inch do. il. tf.
Cedar 2 inch do, il. tof
By the Visitors and Governors of St. John College in fht State of
Maryland, February io, 1790.
Resolved Unanimously,
THAT at the regulancjuaiterly meeting on thefecondTucfday i*
November the Visitors and Governors of S(, Joho>
Col lege,eiett a Principal of the said College ; that it be the duty of
the Principal to superintend the College according to regulations
hereafter to be established, and in conjun&ion with the Vice-
Principal, to teach the higher authors in Latin and Greek—and
the higher branches of fcicuce usually tauglit in other American
Colleges; and that he receive for his ferviccs, an annual salary of
/ .500 current money, equal to £.300 ftcrling of Great-Britain,
or 1 >333 i Spanifti dollars, to be paid quarterly.
That at the next quarterly meeting, on the second Tuesday in
May next, the board ele£t a naafter of writing and arithmetic in
said St. John's College ; and that he receive for his 4P
annual salary current money to be paid quarterly.
That Mr. Wallace, Mr. Carroll, of Carrolton, and Mr. Han
lon, be a committee to write a letter in behalf of this board, t<?
Do&or Price, Do&or Reefe, and Do&or Kippia, of the kingdom
of Great-Britain, inclosing a copy of the Rcfolve refpe6l»ng the
appointment of a Principal; requesting them to recommend a man
proper to be elected Principal of St. John's College, and aCTurlng
them, that if the man, whom they Oiall recommend, be approved
of—r-immediate information thereof shall b« given.
That thefeveral Resolves for ele&ing a Principal and master of
writing and arithmetic, be publiihed in such newfoapers jH the
said committee (hall think proper.
Test, NICHOLAS BRICE, Sec'ry.
P The public are requested to take notice that if a proper
charatter in America iball offer, the Visitors are free to appoint
him ; and that they wifli to ele£l a Principal, as early as is con*
fiftent with propriety, and the lasting welfare of the College.
Any pcrfon defirousof offering himfclf either as a Principal oi
St. John's College, or master of writing and arithmetic, will be
plejfed by writing to inform any one, or the whole of the com
mittee, consisting of Mr. Charles Carrol], in CoOg re^s » M**»
Charles Wallace, in Annapolis, and the Chancellor of Marytend.
The printers of America are requested to insert in their respec
tive newCpapers the foregoing Relolvcs and notifications ; and to
inform their fellow-citijens, that St. John's College, afar a varie
ty of untoward difaftrpus circumstances, vrasopened aod(J?4'cat»
ed in November last ; that the pl|n of thisrifing seminary com
prehends two schools for pfailofophy or the higher branches of
science, vn4er the Principal and Vice-Principat~a school for the
learned languages a pi ofeflor, an assistant matter, and uAi
ers to be appointed, according to the number of ftudcntjs » a o*
school for writing and arithmetic subordinate to the grammar
school ; that John McDowell, A. M. is already engaged as profef
for of philofophy—thf Rev. Ralph Higginbottom, profeffor of
languages, and Mr. Patric M'Grath his afliftant master; that there
is a moral certainty that by the 17th of March, the number of
students will cxceed fifty. Indeed from the fortunate situation of
■ John's College, the amount and ftabijity of its funds, the cha
racter and residence of its trustees, there is the faireft profpett
presented of its answering in the fulleft extent the purpose of it*
liberal and wife founders, and benefactors. t
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Price Si,x Shillings, Sound and Uttered)
And to be fold, by appointment of the Author, by Meflrs. Biaß*
and Rogers, No. 35, by A. M'Man, N0.41, (franklin's
Head) Hanover Square, and by the Editor hereof, N9. 9,
den-Lane,
GEOGRAPHY MADE EASY
(ZtNC AM ABRIDGEMENT Of THE
AMERICAN GEOGRAPHY.
'H Dollars at Us.
Do. 22 inch do. 11. 6J.
>o.«i8. i-nc'h do. .xfy
i'.utL while onk ftavts, 35/
Pipe do. do. 91.
Hogshead dr*. do. 61. 10/ C
Do. do. head tag, ÜBI.
Trifh ba<rvd rV). •ftavw, y],
Hogshead ted oak.do. r r
Do. French do.
Hoglhcad hoops, 41.
Whiteoak fq fate tinrber ) .
per square Soot,
Red wood, >ei ton, 261.
Fuftick, 101.
Beaver, pe-rJib. 12f. a 16/.
Otter per Jkijn, gf.
GreyfoK, 4/7.
Mar-tin, 4_/io.
Racoon, 3Jf6 a 7/6.
Muflcrat, icd. a i*d.
Beaver hats> 64 /
Castor .do. 48/,
Chocolate, 14 d.
Cocota, 7of 4 80s.
Cottoa,
Tar, pr. oar. 10/.
Pitch, 14/.
Turpentine, -1 &). 4 aojT.
TobaccQjJaniesß.Mier,
Do. York, (L
Do. Rappahanock, 2d a gW.
Do. Maryland, coloured, fyi.
Do. Weftern-ftHMe, -arf 4 M
Lead in pigs, pr pvt. 60/!
Do. bajs, 68/
Do. Shot, 68/
Red lead, 68/
White do. dry, 95/
White do. in oil, nf.
>jli-pctre hams, 7 \d.
Spermaceti candles, 3/!
\l->ulddo. 1 id. a \j.
Tallow dipt, gji.
ioap, 5i a &/.
1' aftll r soap, 9d. « ,10d.
Snglifh cheese, pr. lb. 1 fri.
Country do. sd.
Gutter, if.
lyfon tea, 9/8. c 10/
iequin do. 6/6.
Johea do. s»/B. <1 2/9
iinfeng, 2/ a 2/6.
itarch Poland,
inuff, 2(3.
p vllum fact, W3ter ran- 7
sure, pr. iiulb. J 3J°*
Liverpool do. 2/.
Madeira wine, ; .
pr. pipe, J B 9
'ort, tfil.
.ifbon, pr. gal. tj".
Tenriiff,
r >'A 3/3-
'utrh gun-povfSer,pr. ewt. 67.
>Jail rods, pr. tor, jj/. 36/.
-intfeed oil, pr. gal.
•Vhale do. pr. barrel, £OJ,
Spermaceti do, 6/.
Ibakc-dovrn hhds. 3/6