[NO. XCIII.]
(p- For the TABLETfee thiripage.
From ths AMERICAN MERCURY
The APOLOGIZER No. 11.
AS my enquiries are extended into the nature 1
of anti-federalifm, and of the motives which
acftuate such people, I become more convinced,
that my design of a general apology for them is
very meritorious, and ought to have been made
long ago ; and 1 cannot conceive the reason why it
hath never been publicly attempted, unless it be
the excreme difficulty of an investigation. In all
other political fubje&s a writer may deduce his ar
guments and leading principles, from public utili
ty, and from a number of moral maxims, which
the couitefy of the world hath for many ages al
lowed to be sacred ; but on attempting 1 find these
sources fail me ; to supply the want, I niuft have
recourse, in my own meditations, to the situation,
abilities, particular interefls, and paflions of cer
tain characters ; this method of acftual experi
ment, I conceive to be a sure way of coming to
the truth, but the progress is flow, and the public
patience may be exhausted before the completion
of this undertaking.
The last anti-federal fubjecft, which I have had
under inspeCtion, furnifhed me some curious in
formation in what philofopliers have called, the
scale of being, or a series of exiflencies with in
creasing sense and reason, from an oyiter up to
those genii <>f the air, which can play with moun
tains and hurricanes as a child doth with a rattle
hox. To niy great fuprize I found this gentle
man, under a natural necessity, of being anti
federal or difhonell, and I can now allure my rea
ders upon the strength of this experiment, that
the popular opinion of at least a small degree of
roguery, being at the bottom of anti-federalifm,
is not true in all cases, for I have found one hofieft
man in this class of people, and whenever 1 find
another, notice (hall be given of the difcoveiy.
In this examination nothing appeared different
from what is found in other men, except a strange
limitation of all the feeing and judging faculties
within very narrow dimensions.
The mind atfted and judged vigorously on small
objects, but was utterly incapable of extending
its views to the policy of a nation, or the benefit
of so wrest a number of people as inhabit the
Unites States ; neither could he conceive any kind
of advantage from a communication between peo
ple so distant in situation. He feared much the
fame consequences from the union, as might hap
pen from building a bridge to the moon, which
would only serve as a pass way for lunatics and
Other dangerous enemies. After attempting a
whole day to enlarge his understanding, I found
my work in vain, and that no man can fee fur
ther than nature has enabled him. From this I
have taken the hint to form a scale of minds,
which I have thrown into four grand divifious, viz.
Parish intellects,
Countj intellects,
State intellects, and
Federal intellects.
The sub-divisions in each of these clafles, must
be formed from future experiments, and when the
scale is compleated, 1 thiuk it will be an infalli
ble guide to all honest electors.
I would humbly propose to the respectable pub
lic, that when the scale is completed, the party
terms of whig and tory, federal and anti-federal,
republican and democrat, fliould be thrown a
side, and every man's political opinions be def
cribed by the scale of his intellects. Names of
men's invention cause much offence in the world ;
but I think no man can be offended, when we de
scribe him by the standard of nature itfelf.
Where there is no reason for blame there ought
not to be any odium. Nature has made monfcies,
men and angels—still we know that a monkey is
not a man, nor a man an angel—each of these
grades are made to fee, move and be happy in
the communion of their own order ; and fliould
we describe to a monkey the community of an
gels, with their constitution and laws, Pug would
very honestly be anti-federal, and declare off
from the union.
A PERSON folicitinga citizen to bcfecurity to
a friend of his for SQOI. mentioned amongst
other circumltauces as testimonials of his credit,
&c. that he had been twice round the world with
Capt. Cook. If that is the cafe, replied the for
mer, I would not be fecui itv for so many farthings
for him ! For he that would submit, for a trifling
conlideration, to be penned up in a compass of a
,few yards, twice three years together, would not
value lying in goal all his life time for jool.
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. g, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK
BON MOT.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH, 3, 1790.
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURSDAY, FEB. 18, 1790.
IN Committee of the whole, on the Report of the Secretary of
the Tieafury. Mr. Madison's motion for a difcriinination, still
under consideration.
MR. MADISON next rofc,and observed, that thcopponcnts ol
his proportion had imposed on its friends not only a heavy talk,
by the number of their objettions, but a delicate one by the nature
of some of them. It had been arraigned as embarrafling measures
which ought to be facilitated, and producing difcufiions which
might end in disagreeable consequences. However painful 11
might be to contradiftthe wiihes of gentlemen, whom he refpeft
ed, he could promise nothing more, in the present cafe, than his
endeavors to disappoint their apprehensions. When his judgment
could not yield to the proportions of others, the right to make
and support his own was a right which he could never fuffer to be
conteiled. In exercising it, he had ftudicd to maintain that mo
deration and liberality which were due to the greatness of jhe fub
jeft before the committee. He felt pleafute in acknowledging,
that the like Ipirit had in general dire&ed the arguments on the
other fide. Free difcuflions, thus conduced, were not only favor- !
able to a right decision, but to a cheerful acquiescence of the mis
taken opponents of it. They might have the further advantage of
recommending the re(ult to the public, by fully explaining the
grounds of it. If the pretensions of a numerous and meritorious
class of citizens be not well founded, or cannot be complied with,
let them fee that this is the cafe—and be soothed, under their dis
appointment, with the proof that they have not been overlooked
by their country.
He proceeded to review the grounds on which the proportion
had been combated ; which, he said, he (hould do without either
following those who had wandered from the field of fair argument,
or avoiding those who had kept within its limits.
It could not have escaped the committee, that the gentlemen to
whom he was opposed, had reasoned on this momentous question,
as on an ordinary cafe in a court of law ; that they had equally
llrained all the maxims that could favor the purchasing, or be ad
verse to the original holder ; and that they had dwelt with equal
pleafurtf on every circumstance which could brighten the preten
sions of the former, or discredit those. of the latter. He had not
himfelf atiempted, nor did he mean to undervalue the pretensions
of the a&ual holdert: In stating them he had even used as ftro'ng
terms as they themselves could have di&ated ; but beyond a cer
tain point he could not go. He must renounce everv sentiment
which he had hitherto cherished, before his complaisance could
admit that America oughtto ere&the monuments of her gratitude,
not to those who saved her liberties, but to those who had enrich
ed themselves in her funds.
All that he wished was, that the claims of the original holders,
not less thanthofe of the actual holders, (hould be fairly examined
and justly decided. They had been invalidated by nothing yet
urged. A debt was fairly contrasted : according to justice and
good faith, it ought to have been paid in gold or silver : A piece
of paper only was substituted. Was this paper equal in value to
gold or silver ? No : It was worth in the market, which the argu
ment for the purchafmgholders make* the criterion, no more than
one-eighth, or one-seventh of that value. Was this depreciated pa
per freely accepted ? No : The government offered that or noth
ing. The relation of the individual to the government, and cir
cumstances of the offer, rendered the acceptance a forced, not a
free one. The fame degree of constraint would viciate a transac
tion between man and man, before any court of equity oil the face
of the earth. There are even cales where consent cannot be pre
tended ; where the property of the planter or farmer has been
taken at the point of the bayonet, and a certificate presented in the
fame manner. But why did the creditors part with their ack
nowledgment of the debt ? In some instances from necessity—in
others from a well-founded distrust ofthe public. Whether from
one or the other, they had been injured ; they had fuffered loss
through the default of the debtor, and the debtor cannot, in justice
or honor, take advantage of the default.
Here then was a debt acknowledged to have been once due, and
Which was never discharged, because the payment was forced and
defective. The balance consequently is still due, and is of as fa
rred a nature as the claims of the purchafmg holder can be; and if
both are riot to be p-aidinthe whole, is equally entitled to payment
in part.
He begged gentlemen would not yield too readily to the artifi
cial niceties of forenfic reasoning; that they would consider not j
the form, but the substance ; not the letter, but the equity ; not
the bark, but the pith of the business. It was a great and an ex
traordintrycafe. It ought to be decided on the great and funda
mental principles of justice: He had been animadverted upon, for
appealing to the heart as well as the head : He would be bold,
neverthelcfs, to repeat, thaf, in great and unusual questions of mo
rality, the heart is the best casuist.
It had been said, by a Member from Massachusetts, that the pro
portion was founded on a new principle in Congress. If the pre
sent Congress be meant, that is not strange, tor Congress itfelf is
new : If the former Congress be meant, it is not true, for the prin
ciple is found in an a£l which had been already cited. Alter the
pay of the army had, during the war, been nominally and legally
discharged in depreciated paper, the loss was made up to the fuf
ferers.
It had been said, by a member from New-York, that the cafe
was not parallel, there being no third party like the present hold
er of certificates. This objettion could not be valid. Ihe go
vernment paid ten dollars, worth in fa£l but one, to a soldier :
the soldier was the original holder. The soldier afligned it to a
citizen : the citizen then became the a£tual holder. What was
the event ? The loss of the original holder was repaired, after the
actual holder had been fettled with according to the highest mar
ket value of this paper.
He did not mean, however, to decide on the whole merits of
this last tranfaftion, or to contend for a similitude, in all icfpe&s,
between the two kinds of paper. One material difference was
Chat the bills of ciedit, by more frequent transfers, and by divi
ding the change of value among a great number of hands, render
ed the effe6t of less consequence to individuals, and less sensible to
the public mind. But this difference, whatever force it might give
to the claims of the purchafmg holder of certificates, could dimi
nish nothing from the claims of the original holders who had as
signed them.
It had been said by another member, from Maflachufetts, that
the old government did everything in its power. It made requifi
t ons, ufcd exhortations, and in every refpett difchargfd its duly ;
but it was to be remembered, that the debt was not due from the
government, but the United States. An attorney with full pow
ers to form, without the means to fufil engagements, could never
by his incfffftual, though honest offorts, exonerate his principal.
£>uus.
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN.
He had been repeatedly reminded of the address of Congress in
1 which rejected a discrimination between original and pur
chaling holders. At that period, the certificates to the army, and
citizens at4arge, had not been issued. The transfers weie con
fined to loan-office certificates, were not numerous, and had been
in great part made with little loss to the original creditor. At
present the transfers extend to a vast proportion of the whole debr,
and the loss to the original holders has been immense. The injus
tice which has taken place has been enormous and flagrant, anci
makes redress a great national object. This change of circumftan
ccs destroys the argument from the ast of Congress referred to ;
but if implicit regard is to be paid to the doftriries of that ast, 3-
ny modification of she interest of the debt will be as inadmifliblc
as a modification of the principal.
It had been said, that if the lodes of the original creditors arc;
entitled to reparation, Congress ought to repair those whorfuffered
from paper money, from the ravages of the war, and from the ast
barring claims not produced within a limited time. As to the
paper money, cither the cafe is applicablc.or it is not : if not ap
plicable, the argument falls ; if applicable, either the depreciated
certificates ought to be liquidated by a like scale, as was applied
to the depreciated money, or the money* even if the whole mas*
of it was still in circulation, ought now to be literally redeemed
like the certificates. Leaving the gentleman to make his own
choice out of tbefe dilemmas, he would only add, himfelf, that it
there were no other difference between the cases, the manifeft im
poflibility of redreflingthe one, and the practicability of redrcfling
the other, was a fufficient aniwer to the objection. With refpeft
to the towns burnt, and other devastations of war, it was taught by
the writers on the law of nations, that they were to be numbered
among the inevitable calamities of mankind. Still, however, a
government owed thefn every alleviation which it could conveni
ently afford : but no authority could be found that puts on the
fame footing with those calamities* such as proceed from a failure
to fulfil the direst and express obligations of the public. The just
claims barred by the ast of limitation were, in his opinion, clcari
ly entitled to redreis. That acl was highly obje&ionable. The
public which was interested in shortening the term, undertook to
decide that no claim, however just, (hould be admitted, if not pre
sented within nine months. made none of the exceptions
ufnal in such a£ls, nor even in favor of the moll diiiant parts of the
union. In many instances it had been absolutely :mpoflible for
the persons injured to know of the regulation. Some of these in
stances were within his own knowledge. To limit the duratiorl
of a law to a period within which it could not poflibly be pro
mulged, and then take advantage of the impoflibility, would be
imitating the Roman tyrant, who posted up his editts io high
that they could not be read, and then punished the people for not
obeying them.
It had been r aid, that if the purchased certificates were funded
at the rate proposed, they would fall in the market, and the hol
ders be jnjurcd. It was pretty certain that \he greater part, dt
least, would be gainers. He believed that the highest market rate*
especially with the arrears of interest incorporated, well funded
at 6 per cent, would prevent every loss that could juftify com
plaint.
But foreigners had become purchasers, and ou?ht to be parti
j cularly rcfpefled. Foreigners, he remarked, had themfcives
| made a difference between the value of the foreign and domestic
debt : they would therefore the less complain of a difference by
the government here. It was his opinion that the terms stated iti
the proposition, would yield a greater profit to the foreign pur
chasers than they could have got for their money advanced by
them in aoy of the funds of Europe.
The propofitiou had been charged with robbing one set of njen
to pay another. If there were robbery in the cafe, it had been
committed on the original creditors. But, to speak more accu
rately, as well as more moderately, the proposition would do no
more than withold a part from each of two creditors, whete both
were not to be paid the whole.
A member from New-York, had aflted whether an original cre
ditor, who had assigned his certificates could in conscience ac
cept a re-imburfement in the manner proposed ? He would not
deny that assignments might have been made with such explana
tions, or under such circumstances, as would have that effe£h But
in general the aflignments had been made with reference merely
to the maiket value, and the uncertainty of the steps that might
be taken by the government. The bulk of the creditors had afi.
signed under circumstances from which no fcniplcs arise.
In all cases where a scruple exiftcd, the benefit of the provision
might be renounced. He would in turn alk the gentleman, whe
ther theie was not more room to apprehend that the present hol
der, who had got his certificate of a distressed and meritorious
fellow-citizen, for one-eighth or one-tenth of its ultimate value,
might not feel some remorse in retaining so unconscionable an
advantage ?
Similar propositions, it was said, had been made and rejected.
in the (late legislatures. This was not fact. The propositions
made in the state legislatures were not intended to do justice to the
injured, but to seize a profit to the public.
But no petitions for redress had come from the fufferers. Was
merit then to be the less regarded, because it was modest ? Per
haps, however, another explanation ought to be given. Many
of the fufferers were poor and uninformed. Those of another
description were so dispersed, that their interests and efforts could
not be brought together. The cafe of the purchasing holders was
very different.
The constitutionality of the proposition had been "drawn into
question. He asked whether words could be devised that Would
place the new government more precisely in the fame relation to
the real creditors with the old ? The power was the fame; the
obje&ion was the iame : the means only were varied.
An objettion had been drawn from the article prohibiting ex
poji/adolaws. Butt* pojl faflo laws relate to criminal, not civil
cases. The constitution ltfelf requires this definition, by adding
to a likereftri&ion on the states, an express one against retrospec
tive laws of a civil nature.
It had been said that foreigners had been led to purchase, by
their f-ith in the article of the constitution relating to the public
debts. He would answer this obje&ion by a single fact : foreign
ers had shewn by the market price in Europe, that they trusted the
nature of the foreign debt more under the old government, than
the nature of the domestic debt under the new government.
Obje&ions to the measure had been drawn from its supposed
tendency to impede public credit. He thought it, on the con
trary, perfefrly confident with the eftablilhment of public credit.
It was in vain to fay that government ought nev£r to revise mea
sures once decided. Great caution on this head ought, no doubt,
to be observed : but there were situations in which, without feme
legifiative interposition, the firft principles of justice, and the very
ends of civil society, would be fruftrated. The gentlemen them
selves bad been compelled to make exceptions to the general doc
trine : they would probaWy make more before the business was
at ap endIt had been urged that if government fnculd intcrpofe in <he
present cafe, an interposition would be authorised in any cafe
"Avhatever,where the (lock, might fluctuate ; the principle would ap
ply as well to a fall of 60 or 70 per cent, as to a fall of 600 or 700
percent. He could riot admit this inference. A diftmdion was
essential between an extreme cafe and a cafe ihort ol it. The line
was difficult to be drawn; but it no more incumbent on him,
than on his opponents, to draw ir. They themselves could not
deny that a certain extremity of the evil would have juftified the
interpolation. Suppoie that the distress of the alienating credit
ors had been ten times as great as it was ; that instead of 2, 3 or
4s. in the pound, they had received a farthing only in the pound ;
and that the certificates lay now in the hands ot the purchasers :n
that ftatc, or even at a It-fs value : was there a member who would
l ife up aud fay. that the purchasers oujjht to be patd the entire no
minal sum, and the original fufferer be entitled to no indemnifi
cation whatever'?
Gentlemen had triumphed in the want of a precedent to the
mealure. No government, it was said, had interposed to redress
iluftuations in its pub ic paper. But where was the government
that had funded its debts under the circuinftances of the American
debt ? If no government had done so, there could be no precedent
either for or againil the measure, because the occasion itfclf was
unprecedented, And if 110 limilar occasion had before existed in
any country, the precedent to be fct would at least be harmlefj,
bccaufc no Gmilar occasion would be likely to happen in this.
If gentlemen perfided, however, in d; inanding precedents, he
was happy in being able to gratify them with two, which, though
not exactly paiallel, were on that account of the greater force, since
the interpolations of government had taken place where the emer
gency could less require them.
The firft was the cafe of the Canada bills. During the war,
which ended in 1763, and which was attended with a revolution
in the government of Canada, the supplies obtained tor the French
army in that province were paid for in bills of exchange and cer
tificates. This paper depreciated, and was bought up chiefly by
British merchants. The sum and the depreciation weie so conli-
as to bee ra; a fubjeft of negociation between France and
Great Britain at the peace. The negociation produced a particu
lar article; by which it was agreed bv France that the paper ought
to be redeemed, and admitted by Great Britain that it should be
redeemed at a liquidated value. In the year 1766 this article was
accordingly carried into cifeft by ministers from the two courts,
who reduced the paper in the hands of the Britiih holders, in
some instances, as much as 75 percent, below its nominal value.
It wasftatcd, indeed, by the reporters of the cafe, that the holders
of the paper had themfclves concurred in the liquidation ; but it
was not probable that the concurrence was voluntary. If it Was
voluntary, it shews that they themfclves were sensible of the equi
ty of the facrifice.
The oiher cafe was of still greater weight,as it had no relation to
war or to treaty, and took place in the nation which has been held
up as a model with refpeft to public credit. In the year 1713, the
civil lift of Great Britain had fallen into arrears to the amount of
500,0001. Ihe creditors who had furniihed supplies to the go
vernment had, instead of money, received debentures only from
the refpettive offices. These had depreciated. Iu that Hate, they
afligned in some instances ; in others,covenanted to bealfigned.
When the parliament appropriated funds for fatisfying these arrears
they infeited an express p> ovifion in the ast, that the creditors who
had been obliged by the default of government to difpofeof their
paper at a lof>, might redeem it from the aflignees. by repaying
the a&ual price with an interest of 6per cent, and that all agree
ments and covenants to aflign should be absolutely void. Here
then was an intcrpoftiion on the very principle, that a government
ought to red re'b the wrongs, sustained by its default, and on an
occasion trvial when compared with that under consideration ;
yet it does not appear that the public credit of the nation was in
jured by it.
The brft source of confidcncc in a government was the apparent
honesty of its * :?ws. The proportion on the table could not pof
libly be ascribed to anv other motive than this, bccaufe the public
w?s not to gain a farthing by it. The next source was ari experi
enced punctuality in the payments due from the government.
For this iupport to public credit, he relied on what had been ex
perienced by a part of the foreign creditors ; on the provilion to
be made for the residue ; and the pun&uality which he flattered
himfelf would be pbferved in all future pavments of the domestic
creditors. He was more apprehensive of injury to public credit
from such modifications of the intercftof the puDlic debt, as some
gentlemen fecmed to have in view. In these the public would be
the gainer, and the plea of inability the more alarming ; because it
was so eafv to be set up, so difficult to be disproved, and confe
qi ntly for which the temptations would be alluring.
The impra&icabihty of the measure was the remaining ground
on which it had hren attacked. He did not deny that it would be
attended with difficulties, and that perfect justice would not be
done ; but tliefe were not the qucftions. It was fufficient that a
gricvious injufiice would be lefiened, and that the difficulties
might be surmounted. What he had in vieW was that, for the con
venient v of claimants, some authority fliould be provided and pro
perly d'ftrihuted thro' the union, in order to investigate and alcer
tain the claims ;and that for the security of the public,the burden
of proof fnonld be thrown on the claimants. A scrutiny on this
pi, in, aided by original settlements in the books of the army de
partment, andthellate comtnifiioncrs, and other office-documents,
-would be i remedy at once for all the difficulties darted with re
gard to fi&itiout names, certificates iflued as money by commifla
j ies and quarter-mailers, due bills, &c.
Tor some particular cases special provisions might be rcquifite.
The cafe of loan-office certificates, alienated at early periods, be
fore thev were depreciated fell under this description. Legacies
might be another. He should have no objection to some special
regulation, as 10 the payments of debts in certificates to persons
wyhin die British lines, said to have been authorised by the laws
of New-York ; though he presumed few such payments had been
made, and that of t.hefe few the greater part had by this time pas
sed fixtcn the creditors into other hands. There might be a few
"OthprcaTes equally entitled to some particular attention in the de
ta.lsof the proviiion. * As to the merchants who had compounded
for their debts in certificates, or persons who had exchanged bonds
for them, it could not be doubted that the tranfaftions had refer
ence to the market value of the paper, and therefore had nothing
peculiar in them.
The ex pence incident to such a plan of invefligation ought to form
no difficulty. It-bears no proportion to the cxpence already in
curred by commiflioners, Bcc. for effecting a less proportion of
juflicc. Rather than justice Ihould not be done, the cxpeoce
might betaken out of the portion to the original futterers
The danger of frauds and perjuries had been woiked up into a
formidable objection. Ifthefe Fiad always been equally alarming,
no provision could have ever made for the dilcharge of pub
lic debts. He rcmirjded the committee of the frauds and perju
ries for which a door had been opened by the final fettlemcnts,
Ac. of the frauds and perjuries infeparabie from the colle&ion of
impost and excifcs: yet these were all submitted to as neceifarv
evils, because juflicc could not be done wiihout them. Thefrauds
and rv-rjunes incident to this fupplementarv provision forjuftice,
must b? very inconsiderable in number; and itill more so, when
compared cither with the object to be attained, or \»ith 1 lie like c
vils alicady encountered in pursuit of a like object.
Great ingenuity and information had been exerted, by "-r.tle
tnrn on the other fide, in raising difficulties : He was fine that,
after an adoption of the proportion, the fume exertion would be
used in removing them, and with such aid the idea of impractica
bility would vani/h.
Mr. Lee : The genil 'men, he said, who had argued the
proportion of colleague, ft em'to hav«-relbrted to thofc rules
which arc found neccfTarv to regulate the intcrcolu fc between man
and man in civil society, without regarding the great law ot poli
tic il afiociations, which had for its obje&the fafcty and happmefs
of every individual in the community. The end of government
was certainly to accommodate all, and not to aggrandize a tew ;
and every class of citizens ought to be regarded in the diltribution
of national iuflice. And nothing is more common in the hillory
ot the molt virtuous and renown d republics, when brought into
calamitous circum fiances, than to fee this great law fupercedingthe
forms eflablifhed to regulate civil intercourf . Without fach ex
errifes of power, justice could not have been done, nor the nation
preserved. And in such a situation, no wife people will ever be
bound by the ordinary maxims of government . So that he had no
doubt of the right of the government to interfere on theprefciU oc
casion.
Healfo thought, that in all the deliberation 1 ; of the House, the
nature of our government should be attended to. It was the go
vernment of the people, and nothing like a coercive principle was
e found in it : Iu order therefore to render the adminiltralion
lutary and honorable, our measures should be calculated to
ni». c popular approbation. Paying taxes was a ierious thing.
Ana . induce a free people to pay taxes they mult be convinced
of the neceflity and equity of them. And if the proportion on the
table was calculated to reconcile the public mind to the requinte
degree of taxation, every class of the public creditors would pro
bably be finally benefited by its adoption. If, on the contrary,
our measures should appear irreconcileahle to the popular idea ot
equity and right, is it probable that they would meet with that
hearty support from the community, which, under our govern
ment, is eirential to a prosperous administration ot it. The gene
ral opinion of the people lhould have its due weight in all our de
liberations; and he believed that the calm and uubiaffed expres
sion of the public mind, would be always found the b ft index of
that which wasjuft and politic. For his own oart, he declared,
that he had always been convinced of the equity of Aich an ar
rangemeut as that proposed by his colleague; but that he had
considered doubts with regard to the pra£hcability of such a plan,
which were not vet al ogether removed. But this appeared to him
by no means a fufficient reason to prevent us from recognizing
the principle. This would be a declaration to the world, and to
our conrtituents, that we did not disregard the great principles of
natural equi;y; and if hereafter, on further mveftigation, the plan
should be found impracticable, this would be a fufficient juftfica
tion to us lor rclinquifhing it.
He concluded with observing, that he had been unexpectedly
induced to appear on the floor, ana had hastily exprefled ideas
which were the ebullitions of the moment, and hoped that in fu
ture, the debate would be conduced without intimating, in the
most remote degree,thatany gentleman was influenced bv unworthy
motives. For his own part, when he entered the house, he consi
dered himfelf as entering into a fan&uary ; and that every motive
or passion, which had not for its objett the public good, should
be leftbehind. He did not doubt that every gentleman took his
feat here with similar impressions ; and exprefTed a hope, that, the
final refultof their deliberations would be that which would con
tribute most to the national honor and advantage.
• (To be continued.)
P?" Our readers will plea/i to incorporate the following correction
in the Jpeech of the Hon. Mr. P\oi, inserted in our laji. Mr. Page
endeavored to [hew, that Mr. Madrfon's motion did not deserve the harsh
ttprejfions ujed againjl it by Mr. Amet ; that so Jar from being an in
famous, unjust proportion, he thought his colleague might havef'id,
that fhouldCongrejs adopt it, thtv might, with a fafe confcience.Jiand
before the tribunal, not merely ofafuperior order oj beings, but before the
Great fudge ojthe whole Earth. Mr. Page Jjrdnothing like threatning
his opponents zvith divine jufticc : He only endeavored to modoatc their
zeal, and to Jujlify his colleague's motion.
MONDAY, MARCH i
Mr. Sumptcr took his feat this day.
A meflage was received from the President of the United States,
by the Secretary for the Department of War, with sundry com
munications relating to the prcfent situation, and profpefts of the
Western Frontiers in refpeft to the Indian Tribes.
Mr. Scot prefentcd a petition from sundry inhabitants of Penn
sylvania, holders of old paper money—this petition was lengthy,-
and entered into a particular difcuflion of the fubjecl, stated th
pretenlions of those who are creditors of the United States in con
fequenceof holding this money, especially such as had been com
pelled to receive it by virtue of tender laws, and laying great fbefs
on Mre fpccific promise impreflVd on the face of the bills.—Laid
on the table.
Sunday petitions and memorials were read and referred,
The bill for securing to Francis Bailey, the exclusive right oi
using certain inventions in Typography, was read the second time
and ordered to be engrossed for a third reading to-moriow.
A resolution of the AfTembly of the State of South Carolina,
refpe&ing the eftablifhtnent of a military guard at Fort Johnfton,
was read a second time, and ordered to lie on the table.
In committcc of the whole, on the.report of the Secretary oi
theTrealury. ♦
The proportion forafTuming the State debfs, and the amend
incnts proposed thereto, under confidcration.
Mr. Madison withdrew the motion he made on Friday : He
then moved one to the following cfTcft : That the amount of the
debts a&ually paid by any State to its creditors since the day
of (hall be credited and paid to such State on the fame
terms as shall be provided in the cafe of individuals.
Mr. Ames offered the following rcfolutions. which he desired
might be laid on the table, to be taken up after the proportions
under confederation had been decided on.
Refoivcd, that effe&ual provision be made for the settlement oi
accounts between the United States and individual States.
Resolved, that in the said settlement, the States refpe&ively be
charged with tl>c advances to them severally made by the United
States, liquidated to specie value, with interest thereon at the rate
of fix per cent, per annum, and that they be also charged with the
amount of their refpettive debts (which with the consent of the
creditors (hall have been assumed by the United States) with the
interest thereon to the time frotn which interest (hall be payable
by the United States.
Resolved, that in the said settlement the said States refpeffcively
be credited with all monies paid and fupplics furnifhed to or for,
and debts incurred on account of the United States, and in gene
ral with all expenditures whatsoever towards general or particu
lar defence during the late war between the United States and
Great Britain, with interefl thereon at the rate of fix per cent,
per annum.
Resolved, that the said settlement be made under the dire&ion
of commiflioners whose authority shall continue until the said
settlement (hall be effe&ed. and whose decisions shall be final and
conclusive upon the United States, and upon the several States.
Rcfolved, that in cafe a ratio for adjulhng the contributions of
the refpc&ive States lliall not be prescribed by Congress duringthe
present session, the said commjflioners (hall have full power to
fettle fiich ratio, and shall also have power to determine in all
other refpechthe principles of the said settlement in conformity to
these resolutions.
Resolved, that the several States may exhibit their claims against
the United States until the day of next, but not after
wards ; and that the iaid commiflioners shall, as soon as may be
after the said day, proceed to a final adjustment of the said ac
counts, whether tlte whole of the claims of the le.fpe&ive States
f! all have been then exhibited or not.
Xo c! <»?•*.* '.«?*» '1 V-.
370
TUESDAY, MARCH 2
The bill to secure to Francis Bailey tli* exel si
ft ve right to his inventions in typography, was
brought in engrofl'ed, read the third time, and
pafled to be enacfted.
A report from the Secretary of the Treasury,
containing an estimate of the appropriations ne
ctflary for the year 1790 was read—oll motion of
Mr. Page it was ordered that this report be print
ed for the use of the House.
Ic was then moved that a committee of wavs
and means lhould be appointed, and that this re
port should be referred to that committee.
This motion occalioncd a confiderablc debate—
in the course of it, Mr. White moved the follow
ing, in (übltance, viz. That the Secretary of the
Treasury lhould be directed ro ascertain the re
founies that may be applied to the payment of
the State debts, should they be afl'umed by the
United States. The motion on this queflion af
ter considerable difcuiiion was put, when the
House was equally divided—and the Speaker gave
the catting vote in favor of the motion.
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury
relative to appropriations was referred to the
committee on appropriations.
Mr. Ames presented a memorial from the ma
nufacturers of cordage in the town of Boston.
A petition of Abraham Skinner late Commifl'ary
General of prisoners, was read and laid on the
table.
A memorial ofGeorge Scriba,i» behalf ofhim
felf and others, containing a proposal for purclia
ling a tratft of land in the western territory, of
not less than 3 or more than 4 millions of acres
—at the rate of 20 cents per acre, was read arid
referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Stone introduced the following resolution,
which was adopted, viz. That the Secretary of
the Treasury be directed to lay before the House
the amount of the impost and tonnage received
in the several States, from the commencement of
the collection to the 31ft December last.
In committee of the whole House, on the re
port of the Secretary of the Treasury—the as
sumption of the State debts under confederation
Mr. Madison's amendments co the original propo
sition being read, the debate was renewed—His
last proportion, viz. That the amount of the
debts actually paid by any State to its creditors
since rhe day of {hall be credited and
paid to such State on the fame terms as shall be
provided in the cafe of individuals—Mr. Smith
(S. C.) moved should be amended, by inferring
the words principal and iutireft —which after some
debate was carried in the affirmative.
The question on this amendment, as thus a
inended, being taken, was negatived. . 1
The committee then rose—and the House ad-
■ -
FROM THE CONNECTICUT JOURNAL.
MESS'RS PRINTERS.
THE writer, who, in your last paper, attempt
ed to ridicule the pompous account of the
Weltern Territory,has dealt so much bet ween jest
and earned, thai one is in the event at a lols for
his object. - '
Your readers may be pleased with a fine pic.
ture, even though it have no original in nature,
but when the proportions are horrid and impol
ilble, they rnuft be disgusting—These anecdotes
might figure among the Arabian Night's Enter
tainment—but among us can never be entitled to
a fymptoni of credibility.
When Dives was in torment, lie kindly sent to
lis brethren to lhift their course—happy for us,
i the desperate settlers of the Georgian Terri
tory were as humanely disposed.
To people acquainted with new countries I need
only observe, that with all poflible advantages
from nature, the firft settlers inuft have a Ben
jamin's mess of the curse of Adam, before they
can receive the fruit of their labours.
Deprived of the blessings of neighbourhood and
social intercourse, at a diitance from markets, in
constant fear from savages, they may pick straw
berries larger than thole of Chili—may reflect
that in the latitude of their lands lie many de
lightful countries on the other Continent—Their
imagination may represent, Age resuming Youth
—all the Seasons resolved into one eternal Spring
—the waters of a modern Bethefda, healing-with
a prefer christian rapidityrr-the most painful dis
orders flying at the firft draught—rivers clear as
chryftal stocked \vith all kind of fifli—ihey may
conceive of trees reaching far above the atmof
phere,vmh diameters like the planet Mars—these
bearing (pontaneoufly, all manner of fruits, in
abundance, transcending calculation —A second
and much improved edition of Eden may please
their mendacious fancies, but call these poor
wretched beings to their bitter, barren reality.
Alas ! " The apprehension of the good gives but
" the greater feelings to the worse ; —_
" WhocanJiolda fire in his hand by think-'
'* ing on the frofty Caucasus ? or cloy the
" hungry edge of appetite by bare imagi
" nation of a feaft—"
These t aging accounts have been foifted into
public notice by the emissaries of land jobbersthese men have bought the lands at a very Anall
price, and are very much disposed to get your
valuable farms in exchange for them. Various
irrfidious arts have been employed to ensnare and
betray the unwary.—Let me counsel you mj
rountrymen, to flay at home, content with that
support which honeit induftrv will secure to you
in any populated part ot the United States.
Your emigration to these lands will be as in
jurious to your country,'as emigration to another
planet. In a political view, these lands may pel
liaps, be made produtftiv e of money, it fold abi oad,
and reserved for foreign emigrants—but in a
commercial and agricultural view, they are, at
this moment, very injurious—they open a refoit
for all who would escape from debt and from m
duftry they weaken the effe<si of penal laws
throughout the Union, by receiving and protect
in<r their jult vitftims. There no law reaches,
nocurfe descends—but in lieu of them a compli
cation of miseries neceflarily attendant on fetlers
in a new territory.—Convinced I am, that if those
lands were overflowed by tne lakes—or funk in
the ocean—or turned into a desert—we fliould be
a richer people.
On the fubieeft of the iihmenfe compliments to
our Western Territory, I pledge myfelf, (if fair
ly challenged, under this signature,) to prove,
that the accounts have been, for the moti part,
absolutely falfe and insidious. Stay, then, my
countrymen, in your honest callings, and never
be caught, Handing like Shakespeare'sblackfinitli,
with fufpentfed hammer, and out-ftretch'd mouth,
swallowing ataylor's news
for the gazette of the united states.
MR. FEN NO,
THE critical moment is at hand. Whether the new govern
ment will Hand or fall : Whether the United State', will rife
into refpeflability, or fink into contempt, will be decided, when
the qucOion, resetting public credit, lhall be determined. If
justice and true policy (hall appear among the leading features ot
this all important determination, our government will obtain en
ergy, our legislators merit the confidence of their conftitucnts, and
the oeople lie happy. But Should this not be the cafe, the laws of
Con'-'itls will be treated like the creatures of a day, and its mem
hers arpear only ascyphers. Ido not wilh a government that is
not founded in justice; and I am sure we lhall have no other to
continue long,except it be in tyranny. .
I would be tar from impeaching the worthy character ol tne Se
cretary ot the Treasury : It would be with reluctance, should I
disapprove the plan contained in his report, in which he has dif
olayed so much ingenuity. But I wilbto makefome remarks upon
it tter-writers andcorrefpondents whofeem to applaud his plan.—
It is applauded, btcaufe it probably cost him much labor ; and it
is the performance of one in whose abilities and fidelity we have
rcal'on to confide. But we have a right to call to mind, that the
author of the report is one who is not wholly exempted from the
common imperfections of human nature. It is polfible that he
tbouldcrr.
By whom a letter-writer is authorued to fay, That the public
creditors will be content with receiving an interest ot 4 per cent,
xvhen they loaned their money to the States upon condition of rc
ceiving 6 per cent.—or how he can fay that they have cxpeftedno
more, lam not able to conceive. I know that some ol the pub
lic creditors xvill not be content with this : I have not heard one
fay that he would be content with it. Money is let, and has been,
and' trill be let at an interest of 6 per ccnt. Is it not rare patrio
tic that inclines a man to let bis money at a less interest to the
States than to his neighbors ? _
I think the present servants of the public, do nol fervethe State*
for less wages than they would serve individuals. When we
loaned our money to the States,we might have loaned it to private
r-erfons at 6 per ccnt. and continued itfo to this lime, and as much
longer as wc plcafc. How then is it rational to c-mclude that the
crcditorsof the public will be contort to receive only an interest of
a per rent, upon those obligations which solemnly promise 6 ?
I believe that if Congress propose this, and they confcnt to'it, it
w ill bebecaufe they think they can do 110 better with the uUuna
hx regum.
Would ConireTs know whether the pub.ic creditors are willing
tocontinue their money in the loan, or subscribe to the new pro
iefted fund, at an interest of 4 per ccnt. let them make a fair trial.
I.et them offer full payinentot principal and interest already ari
f"n, in real Ipeeie, and fav, will you acceptor, or continue your
property in the loan at 4 per rent.? Unless the public debt be
continued upon an intcrclt of 6 per cent, and provision made for
thcannual payment of it. I (hall not view the foundation of our
government as laid in justice : Except the consent of the public cre
ditors to a lower intceft is obtained in the mannerjuft m-ntioncd,
or some other as fair. That the States have any right to depart
from an original contrast made with any ol their fubjeas, without
the confcnt ot the fubjeft fairly obtained, is, tor me, as difficult
to undei stand, as that either party, in a private contrast.has a right
to make alterations without the confcnt of the ot hcr. If the States
can make afavingof interest in a manner that is jult and fair, let
them do it; hut in any other manner it ought to be reprobated
The letter-writer furtherobferves, that only 4 per cent, interest
is within the compass of the ability of the United States This I
dcema miftakc 111 him, and a falfehood in fact The Stairs are
not yet reduced to bankruptcy, They are not under the necclhty ol
compounding with their creditors at one thud dilcount. Let not
an idea, so fa'lfe, and so ruinous to Our credit he fuggeftcd or che
rished To be sure, if the States are not able to pay any more
than two thirds of the interest they owe, the creditors who are
but a small Dart of the States are not ableto lose onethird. I hev
mud bear a part in paying this two thirds, at the fame time they
mud lose one third, and no body to bear a part with them.
Ido not suppose the letter-writer means that there:i- not pro
perty or refourccs enough in the States to pay their * its lone .V,
but it will be too heavy : If they be really able, it will be more
pinching than they can bear. I hope wc are not so > destitute ol
virtue yet. The creditors maybe ableto lose a part of their dues,
but win it not he h. avy and pinching to them ? Were power upon
'heir fide, 'they might fay with a like pofiuve air—lt is too heavy
for us. If they are deprived of one third ot their interest, they
a-edeprived of one third of their principal too. Certainly it
300 dollars draws no more intcrell in the public funds than 200 111
a private fund, it is worth no more than 200, it will tell tor no
more. Is not this too heavy upon thecrcuitors . If any uppo e
that in years to come interest will be no more t.ian 4 per curt. in
common through the States : Yet let in wait till that time : It
will then be fooncnough to rcduceth: interest of the public fundl:
Thecreditois will then be willing for it. That period is no doubt
distant from ui. In such a new and extenfivecountry as this,
therearc, and foi a longtime will be, ways tor people to difpole
c»f't'neir n>on< y to a greater advantage, than letting it even at 0 per
cent. I need only mention the cncrc«lmg value ol lands.
A REPUBLICAN
If the people will not bear a burden heavy enough to dojuftice, *
let us know ir. II their character is known, future generations
will not be deceived and cheated as the present has been. Should
this sentiment declared and patronized, that the States are not
ibieto dojuitice to their creditors, it would give as fatal a blow
to public credit as the want of jufticc. I think my neighbors as
unwilling to trust a man whom they suppose unable to pay th?m
again, except in part, .is „hey aj e one who is-able, but unwiling,
till compelled to ii by law. I fear the States will never be able
to obtain another loan, if once they fliilt by any means reduce
their creditors to a neccfluy of accepting a less rate of intcrell than
was originally agreed upon. For what they do now may be done 1
again. This will Hand as a precedent. The character which
they get fixed upon thetnfelvcs now, will probably be imputed
to them foi: a long fucceflion of generations.
If the States think, they pay too high interest, or could borrow
at less, let them do as a prudent lubjeCt would in such a cafe, pay
up their former loan and contratt a new one. Should any lay,
this is not a fair proposal, because it is what they cannot do—the
present state of o'ur treasury is not fuffccicnt. for such a thing : I
answer, let them getthemoney lutothe'treafury by opening a new
loan. Let them, by advertisements through the States, delire the
monied fubje&s to deposit their money in a public fund at 4 per
cent, imcrelt, and with the money thus obtained, pay off the ob
ligations which have been given at 6 per cent. If money cannot
be thus obtained, it will prove that monied men can do better with
their money; and if so, it proves it unjust and impolitic to reduce
the public creditors to the neceflity of taking less than 6 per cent.
Why this class of citizens fliould be called to make a facrifice to
the public, 01 why it should be expetted from them I know not.
They have fuffered as much during the war. in other ways, as any
class of people ; they have for many years fullered beyond others,
by having no iptereft paid them, or that which in value has been
next to none. I believe them not behind others in patriotism :
but it seems to me they are the last class of citizens that should be
called to make so great a facrifice ; They have been not only th£
nominal but a&ual friends of their country in thq time of her
grcateft neceflities. J"here could be much better ak pro
duced in favor of an advanced interest than of a reduced one ; but
let jufticc take place, I a(k no more.
A CONNECTICUT MAN.
BY AUTHORITY.
PROCLAMATION oj the KING of FRANCE,
For granting Bouutie/ on ths importation of Grain.
November jth, 1789.
JL HE King being informed that in many of the
Ports of his Kingdom, the merchants would bedif
pofed to import foreign grain, if tlicy could ex
pect to receive the like Bounties as were granted
until the firft of September last ; His Majesty be
ing deiirous to induce the merchants to pursue
measures so conducive to the supplying his peo
ple with provisions, has thought proper to grant
this Encouragement : His Majesty has therefore
ordained, and does ordain as follows.
That there shall be paid to all French and Fo
reign Merchants, who from the-ift December,
1789,10 the Ift July, 1790, lhall import Wheat,
Rye and Barley, and the Flour thereof, from the
different Ports of Europe, or of the United States
of America, the following Bounties, viz. thirtyfous
per quintal on Wheat—; forty sous per quintal on
Wheat Flour—twenty-four sous per quintal on Rye
—thirty-two sous per quintal on Rye Flour—twenty
fout per quintal on Barley, and twenty-seven sous
per quintal on Barley Flour.
11.
The said Bounties Ihall. be paid by the Recei
vers of the Farm-Duties in the Ports of the King
dom, where the said Grain and Flour lhall arrive,
on the Declarations furnifhed by the Captains of
the Vessels, who lhall be bound to annex thereto
a legal copy ot the Bill of Lading of their cargo.
111.
All the Vessels indiscriminately, which, during
the space of time above fpecified, lhall import in
to the Kingdom Wheat and Flour, coming from
the different Ports of Europe, and those of the
United States of America, lhall be exempt from
the Duty of Freight, on account of the said im
portations. His Majesty enjoins the persons em
ployed in the Farms to conform to, and carry in
to execution the present Proclamation, which lhall
be read, published, &c.
Done at Paris, the fifth of November, 1789.
[Signed] DE SAINT PRIEST.
LONDON, December, 31.
Extract of a letter from Rome, Nov. 21.
" Yesterday morning a courier arrived from
Bologna, with news of tne death of the Duchefsdf
Albany, natural daughter of the late Pretender,
who sent for her from France some time before
his death, and had her legitimated. Her com
plaint was an abfeefs inthefide, and is attributed
to a fall from her horse some time before she left
"France. She was the last diredt descendant (if a
natural child can be so called) of the Stuarts, ex
cept the Cardinal of York ; who since his bro
ther's death has afliimed the title of Henry IX."
The patriotic furor of freedom which f<» high
ly dignifies the present period, has at length ex
-371-
ARTICLE I
tended to the Bi uifh iilands of Jersey andGuerr
fey ; in both of which the standard of liberty i«
eredled. The points resolved upon are grand ju
ries, trials by juries, and an abolition of appeal
and jurifdic'tion. 1 i<e friends of government
have Itrenuoufly endeavored to oppol'e thole re
solutions, but the patriots carried ihein by a pro
digious majority.
file loss liiftaiued by the Grand Vizier in the
adtion with Prince Potemki:), is about 20,000
men, molt of whom were drowned ; the Rcis
Effendi and many principal officers were among
them.
At Rome, the middle of November last, the
weather suddenly became so cold, that the inha
bitants were obliged to button theinfelves in their
great coats. A circumltance so unufiial in those
climates, may lead to a conjecture, that the li
vers which are described by the Roman Poets to
have been frozen over in the day of Augustus,
may (hortly exhibit the fame phxnomenon.
A detachment from the Rullian grand fieet in
the Norto palled the Streights of Gibraltar oil
the 23d ult.
A patenthas just paff'ed the Great Seal toa Mr.-
Hancock for a molt valuable invention : It is a
portable, compa<fl machine, for winnowing and
cleaning all forts of corn. It will do eight quar
ters in an hour ready for the market, prevents
all waste, and gives the Corn a lighter colour than
the usual mode.
THE TABLET.
" It is a difficult tajk to get above a defre of being
applauded for things that should be wholly indifferent.
THERE is no circumstance in the conduct «f
a person that requires more discretion, than
to regulate that partot'converfation which relates
to hinifelf. The love of commendation is (!>
strong in the minds of mo ft men, that it often,
tempts them to praifc ..heir own qualities or ac
tions. Though applause which one bellows on
hinifelf may denote vanity, it is no mark of a
perverse disposition, unless the things which he
applauds, are such as deserve censure, rather than
praise. lam apt to believe, that when a person is
left to the necessity, either of speaking in his own
commendaton, 01 of having nothing commenda
ble said of him, that he will be vain of qualifica
tions that are vicious or ufclefs.
What are we to think of a person who takes a
pride in boasting that he can drink a greater
quantity of wine than any of his acquaintance
without intoxication? It is natural to infer, that
he wiflies applause, and that as he is not consci
ous of any real merit, he had rather be remarka
ble for vice or folly, than not to be diftingijiftied
at all. A person likewise who is vain of any pe
culiarity of dress or manners, rtiews a desire to be
applauded for things, about which he should be
indifferent. Few men are capable of regulating
their love of applause in fucli a manner, as 110 c
fpinetimes to doat upon Trifling qualifications ;
and to seek commendation in points, which pru
dence would direct them to conceal. But we
ihould be on our guard against the fafcinating
influence of admiration, or it may lead us into ac
tions that may leflen our chara&er in the view of
those, whose efteein and approbation are moll to
be vplned.
NEW-YORK, MARCH 3
FROM CORRESPONDENTS.
When it is considered how -highly the public
expectations were raised at the adoption of the
New Constitution—and how greatly those expec
tations have been realized in the administration,
ofthe government thus far, a doubt cannot be
entertained refpe&jngthe adoption of fuchmea
fures in future, as will ensure the most essential
objedt, the eftabliftunent of the PUBLIC CREDIT.
As a leading step to this great event, every na
tional and patriotic motive, concurs to enforce
the assumption of the State Debts. This will
prove a most important link in the chain of our
Federal Union—and which, if not done, will be
a dereliction of the interest of a very refpecfiable
class of the most diftioguiflied Patriots of our
Country. _
Local politics were universally decried but a
Ihort time since, as the disgrace and curse of our
country —all the members of our present enlight
ened NationalLegifiature, in all their deliberations
on the great questions that come before them, es
pecially those relating to FINANCE, discover
minds superior to all felfilh, State attachments.
So that the interests of all, appear to be equally
dearto all. When this isthecafe, how glorious
; is the profpetft of our country !
" A chain of felf interest is no better than a
rope of sand. There is no cement, nor cohesion be
between the parts —there is rather a mutual anti
pathy and refulfton —hence we fee this chain is al
ways ready to fall in pieces, andon any sudden
concussion to break into an infinity of factions."
" When this comes to be the cafe with a com
munity, wefindthat no public measure, however
falntary, can be carried into effect, ifit.clafh with
arty iorefeen particular interest." EJNm?a.
No. XCIII,FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
LETTER. No. IV.
MR. FENNO,
IN my lad I have dated the example of blacks, who mtermar
ried by force of conquest with two European nations happy
was it for the conquered, that their colour only changed on this
account —however as we all admit full blood, three quaiters, and
half blood, in our hounds and horses—it will not appear a para
dox, if 1 lay it down as a general rule, that when m animated na
ture higher orders intermix with lower ones, the original charac
ter is gradually debated, and finally loft ; this leads me to an ex
amination of what would happen if negroes were made freemen,
living among us. ._ c
Different notions have been held on the manumission ot negroes
——let us fcleit one, and suppose that it was granted on all lidcs,
that the childien of the Oaves which will be born the next year,
are to be free. As the law can, I believe, make no difference be- |
tween citizens of the empire, ot what colour they may be, a giadiul
intermarriage of the whites and blacks will happen of course:
Where is, among our citizens, the mother of a family blelkd with
beautiful daughters, who will not ihudder when Ine thinks, that
there might be only a probability, that her great grand daughters
Swill have black muzzles and crooked figures ; moreover this is but
the smallest part of the bitter fruits with which black, citizenlhip
tyould be pregnant—it would be uncloling Pandora s box
Although I believe that the new black citizen would reel grate
ful for his manumission, yet this sentiment will soon subside, and
be fully cxtinguifhed in the next generation; the difference in
corporal and intelle&ual qualities would be ielt by the black, the
consciousness of his inferiority would extinguish gratitude, and
iealoufy would be his prevailing paflion —(houldany invalion hap
pen, the enemy would purchase the blacks on ealy terms, and
without any foreign attack this jealousy would have the molt fa
tal effetts, and cause constant dilturbances in the empire ; tranquil
ity would fly from Columbia, and not be re-eftabhihed until inter
marriage had dyed the nation nearly one and the fame colour .
But then the original chafer of the nation will only stand re
corded in the historic page, when it speaks of the times of their
ancestors becoming renowned in the annals of mankind by repe
ling tyranny, and assuming their independency with spirit; when
by gigantic strides they role into consequence, and outlhonc even
their originals in arms, in fcienccs and arts—when they crowned
the liberty of the citizen by a uniform federal government : then
genius was a native of this happy foil—and ihe foreigner gloried
to be an American freeman. RUST ICUS.
FOR THE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
I AM a Jheep-hairy negro, the son of an African
man and woman ; by a train of fortunate
events I was left free, when very young, and by
the interposition of the most generous of mankind,
1 have received a common tnglifti school educa
tion, and have been inftru&ed in the christian
religion—l am master of a trade whereby I get a
comfortable living: Myleifjre time I employ in
reading, it is my delight, and I am encoliraged
by several spirited, noble and generous American
freemen, who are pleased to praise me for employ
ing my time.so much more rationally (as they fay)
than most of the white men who are in the fame
ilation of life that I am : And do not consider
me as the link in the creation by which the mon
key hangs to the gentleman. 1 eftcem it among
thebleffings of my situation, that by my industry
:is a tradesman, I am enabled to purchase your
interesting publication, and by my alfiduity as
a student 1 am enabled to read it with profit : Bnt
I fear alj my application has not made me equal
to the irafk I have undertaken, of penning a let
ter, which (hall appear to you worthy of a place
in your next number ; the arduous talk of appear
ing as an opponent to the philosophic Rufticus.—
Had this philofophcr advanced anything new
1 should not dare to step forward ; but to his
present hackney'd theme, I shall oppose the ar
guments of such as have written against the idea
of ottf inferior nature, particularly Mr. Clarkfon :
The philofoplier'schain is arufty affair ; I fliall
take'little notice of his bulls and wild ducks—l
•would willingly come to the point: Rullicusgoes
■upon the principle which Lord Kaims labored very
hard to establish, that the variety of colour, fea
tures, &c. in the human species, proved them to be
derived from various ftocks,andjnot as the otdfajbi
cr.ed erroneous scriptures aflert, all the descendants
of Adam. His next is the principle of links—
in which if I mistake not his idea—he and his
brethren of European extraction, stand or hang
inferior to none but angels—to them follow the
dther nations of the earth.—As, effeminate Asia
tics—long haired savages of America—fheep
hairy Africans—Africans with ivolfes muzzles—
and next I suppose the various kinds of the mon
key, &c. &c.—Now if I can prove by the aflift
ance aforementioned, that thefirft is a falfe prin
ciple, and that Europeans, Asiatics, Americans
and Africans are all the descendants of Noah—
The second principle will fall of course, at lead
so far, that because I have a black skin (tho by
the by my skin is already whiter than niy father's
\vas) flat nose, thick lips and sheep-hair, I fhalj
not be hook'd on at the lower end of the chain
of human beings
It is really amusing, not to fay laughable,to fee
■vith what eagerness Lord Kaims pursues his fa
vorite difcrim'mating plan : I will instance one of
his proofs that there are different species of men by
nature totally d';flinll Jrom each other. " The Gia
gas" fays this great critic " a fierce and wand
ering nation in the heart of Africa" (only notice
what a fruitful and convenient foil Africa is for
monftcrs) " are in efFedl land pirates at war with
all the world. They indulge in polygamy, but
bury all their children the moment of birth, and
chufe in their stead the most promising children
taken in war. There is no principle among ani
mals more prevalent than afFedtion to their off
spring : Supposing the Giagas to be born without
handsorfeet, would they be more difttngiufhable
from the reft of mankind ?"•—So blindly did the
Author of the elements of criticism pursue his fa
vorite system, that he never considered that 11
the Giagas destroyed all their children, and a
dopted the children of various strange nations,
of course this diftincft species of men were ex
tind: after the firft generation, and all the various
nations that they incorporated with themfelyes,
were precisely of the fame extraordinary, distinct
and monstrous nature. —So idle are the specula
tions of the wisest men when they wander from
the pure light of reason and religion.
I shall now bring forward in as concise a mm-
I ner as pofiible, a few of the arguments made use
of by Mr. Clarkfon, in opposition to the main
principle of Rufticus.
The firft argument by which it is attempted to
be proved " that the Africans are an inferior
link in the chain of nature," is the supposed in
feriority of their capacities—The argument is so
weak it does not deserve notice, neither would it
become me.—The second is drawn*from color and
featutes, nay, " even the hair of their heads is
brought into the account"—My parents born in
Africa, have not the white skin, therofy cheek,
the prominant nose and black teeth of Rufticus,
therefore are not only atliftindt, but an inferior
species of animal : The worthy author before
me (Mr. Clarkfon) fays " It is an universal law,
observable throughout the whole creation that if
two animals of a different species propagate, their off
fpring is unable to continue its own species. By this
admirable law, the different species are preser
ved diftind:. Now if we apply this law to those
of the human kind, who are said to be of a di
ftimft species from each other,it immediately fails.
The mulatto is as capable of continuing his spe
cies as his father ; a clear and irrefragable proof
that the scripture account of the creation is true,
and that " God, who hath made the world,hath
made of one blood all the nations of men that
dwell on all the face of the earth." This law
of nature will not suit Rufticus—who fays, " na
ture gofcs not from one species of animal abruptly
to the next: There are beings who separate one
fort from the other and partake in their form and
habit something of both ; these I call intermedi
ate beings"— Nature knows no such intermediate
beings—the animals Rufticus enumerates (such
of them as we know to exist) are diftin<ft species
of animals, and are divided by the above menti
oned law.
If mankind are from one stock they conse
quently had but one colour, and was that white ?
No—We have every reason to believe that it
was a dark olive.—Then is Ruiticus as far from
the original colour as I am. It will now bealked
what has caused the various appearances of men
atprefent—l answer from my book " a co-ope
ration of certain causes, which have an effed:
upon the human frame, and have the power of
changing it more or lei's from its primitive ap
pearance, as they are more or less numerous or
powerful than those, which a<fted upon the frame
of man in the firll feat of his habitation."—Cli
mate appears to have the principal fliare in the
variety of colour—Anatomical experiments have
established it as fa<ft, that the feat of colour is the
corpus mucofum, which is found to vary with the
climate throughout the world.
I must refer my reader to Mr. Clarkfon's eflay
on the slavery and commerce of the human spe
cies for a ftatementof fadis, and arguments that
will remove every doubt on this fubjetft, and con
vince him that our colour is no proof that we are
an inferior link in the great chain of creation.
I fear I have already made my letter too long—
I hope Mr. Fenno wili correct my inaccuracy (if
he thinks my attempt to vindicate those of my
colour fit for the public eye) and excuse my art
less arrangement of my fubje<st.—l will conclude
by anfv/ering the last queition of Rufticus. No
human law can by intermixing species overthrow
. the fixed order of nature—but the American and
the African are one species—The law of nature
declares it—And I, a flieep-hairy African negro,
being free and in some degree enlightened, feel
myfelf equal to the duties of a spirited, noble, and
generous American freeman. AFRICAN US.
LATE EUROPEAN NEWS.
SPAIN.
ESCURIAL, Nov. 9.
His Catholic Majefly went on Thursday last to
Madrid, to dismiss the Cortes according to the
usual form.
Nov. 16. His Catholic Majesty was pleased to
declare, on the 12th inft. the civil promotions
made on the occasion of his coronation, the pub.
lication of which was deferred till the Cortes had
finilhed their deliberations. Each of the Mem
bers of that Afl'emblv, which consisted of feventy
four persons, lias received a mark of the Catho
lic King's favor, according to his rank. Amonll
other numerous promotions, are, the creation of
eight grandees of' Spain, ninehouorary grandees,
five knights of the golden fleece, one of whom is
M. de Norohna, the Portuguefe-Ambaflador here,
ten knights of the great cross of Charles 111. two
-372-
counfellars and four honorary counsellors of
state, and twenty-two chamberlains.
LONDON, Dec. 31.
Tl)& official account of the capture ofßruflels,
pnblifhed by the Patriots, is as under. It is dated
the 12th of December.
" At length, notwithstanding the ai iniilice,
and every other pretence, 500 brave Patriots of
Bruflels have dared to engage in battle with 6poo
Auftrains. The adtion commenced yellerday af
ternoon, at four o'clock. The firft attenpt was to
make prisoners of all the soldiers who guarded
the Mint, and those who were quartered in the
different converts. General D'Alton did his ut
most from fix o'clock in the morning to negociate
an armistice. About seven o'clock, 800 men of
Benden-D'Aloft entered the city with two pieces
of cannon, which they planted on the Grand Pa
lace. About ten o'clock General D'Alton thought
proper to fend a large detatchment in order to
release, by forcible means, the officers and pri
vates made prisoners in the Baileville. This was
the signal for a new engagement, which will be
ever memorable for itsvic'tory. The Patriots no
longer able to contain thenifelves, routed the
whole detatchnient. To the number of 500, at
the utmost, they invelled the great market, and
after a most obltinatc conflict, they made them r
selves matters of the Coros de Garde, and two
pieces of cannon, and took oboiit 400 Auftrians
prisoners. Aboutthe fame time the engagement
re-commenced in all quarters of the city ; and, in
less than two hours, the Patriots made thenifelves
111 after of the barracks of the military and of the
magazines, in which they found near 2,000 mus
kets, besides cartridges, ammunition, &c. To
wards noon, they attacked the Park and the Pal
ace Royale, where the greatest body of troops
were concentered, with 12 pieces or cannon.
After a very heavy firing 011 both fides, D'Alton
perceiving that the place was no longer tenable
against so much bravery, capitulated for the im
mediate retreat of his whole gerrifon ; and the
requelt having been acceded to, about one o'clock
they departed, with great precipitation, through
the Porte de Nainur. But as all the soldiers are
not equally inclined to follow hint, at the mo
ment this is writing, they are squabbling among
themielves, without the city. Already, we have
got more than 3,000 prisoners ; buta few killed,
and 110 lioufes plundered.
Authenticitatcm tejlor, (Signed)
G. B. A. SCHELLEKENS, GREKFIER."
The llave trade is abolifhedin Bengal. Lord
Cornwallis has just ifliied a proclamation, and
which has been published in the difterentlan
guages of the country, declaring, that all per
sons who may hereafter be found, either dirertly
or indirectly, (concerned therein, lhall be pro
secuted in the Supreme Court. A reward of
ioo Sicca rupees is offered in the proclamation,
and fifty rupees more for every person delivered
from slavery or confinement by the discovery.
WHITEHALL, Dec, 19.
The King has been pleased to constitute and
appoint Thomas M'Donough, Efq, to be his Ma
jesty's Consul in the states of Maflachufett s
Bay, Rhode-Island, Connecticut and New-Hamp
fliire.
The King has also been pleased to constitute
and appoint John Hamilton, Esq. to be his Ma
jetty's Con fill in the state of Virginia.
WHEN the late Doctor Rock, of facetious me
mory, used to publish his medicines in the
mountebank style, and was once extolling their
virtues on Tower-Hill, he obferveda Porter, who
had attracted part of his audience to a separate
circle—This not being very agreeable tothephy
fical orator, he enquired what the fellow was do
ing ? " Why, Dodtor," said one of the croud,
" he tells us he remembers the time when you
" was a porter as well as himfelf."—" It is very
" true," replied Rock, " but you fee he is a
PORTER still !"
Wanted by the Editor of this paper, a Houje that "
commodate a largefamily, and the printing bufmtfs—jrom thefrji oj
May next.
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Burling-Slip,
A General Attornment of EAST-INDIA GOOD
Among which are the following Articles:
BOOK.Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMIIUMS,
Jackonet do. j| Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,|| Cartas,
Chintzes, || Seersuckers,
Ginghams, || Boglapores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for caih. nnM
And a few pair large handsome Cotton COUN
TERPANES, much warmer than Blankets.
January 9, 1790. - ' " ~
To be L E T, .
And pofTeflion-givcn the lfl of April, for one or more years, v
miles and half from this city, on the Greenwich roac,)
XHAT New TWO STORY HOUSE—four
Rooms on a floor ; with fix fire placcs; a new Bain, an
Well of excellent Water ; a young Orchard of fruit Trees, vv- »
7A acres of Land, themoft part Meadow. For particulars enq
at No. 7, Maiden-Lane. Ktw-Yerk, February 2c.
ANECDOTE.