(brtztf#? xbjpf
[No. XCIV.-j
THE TABLET
No. XCIV
" A desire to support a party often obtains the cha
racter and anpuiers the end oj patriotism."
PUBLIC affairs procced with most alacrity
andfuccefs, when a considerable degree of
party-spirit prevails. Though it may be carried
to such excels as to overthrow a government, yet
ionic portion of it is necellary to give vigour to
public ineafurfcs. There is in molt men such a
temper of felfiihnefs as will induce them tocoun
leratftthe welfare of the community. This istoo
stubborn to be controled merely by a fente of du
ty. It can therefore only be managed by causes
more energetic than itlelf. In this view lam
induced to believe, that party spirit may operate
as a remedy against those private prejudices, per
sonal caprices, and local attachments, that com
bine to impede the national prosperity.
When the leading characters of a country are
divided into two parties, each of which has some
common views or feelings to cement them,it pro
duces a concert of meafuies, which is often benefi
cial to the community. One party some times
predominates, which,from a turn in affairs,yields
afterwards to the predomiriancy ot the other.
But whichever of thein has the ascendency, the
spirit of parry still invigorates the actions of both.
By this means, conliderations,merely private,are
abforded by a regard to party-interests, which
frequently assume the name of patriotism. In a
public affembly,compofed of individuals who felt
no party attachments, the debates would take a
desultory turn and seem to be directed to no fixed
objedi. Personal vanity or whim would tempt
the speakers to come forward with ixsw and An
gular propositions, and there would be no com
mon principle to check their irregularities. It
would belike fkirmilhing at random, where every
man discharges his fit e at such a mark as his Fan
cy suggests, or perhaps at no mark at all. But
in a public aflcmbly where there are two deter
mined parties, the abilities of the speakers atft
in concert anil are direifted to a common center.
This combination of talents affords an able dif■
culion of subjects, while each fideexpofes the er
rors, that the other attemps to inculcate.
There are not now, in the United States, any
eftabliihed parties in the government, who uni
formly take lides, ill important queltions. The
diftindtion of whig and tory does not exist with so
much force, to affedt political arrange
ments. The mercantile and landed interests have
n it such a decided opposition of views, as to pro
duce an inveterate party fpiric. Some people
will pretend that federal and antifederal charadt
ors are at so great variance in opinions, that they
may be considered as established parties In govern
ment. Ido not however view them inthislight.
Their diversity of fentiinents is not so wide ;
their feelings of dislike to each other are not so
keen and inflexible, as to constitute a uniform
division ih public debate, corresponding to those
cliaradteriftics. Our government has less to fear
from the zeal and adtivity of its enemies than
from the languor and inattention of its friends.
If its enemies appeared more formidable, its
friends faould really be more vigilant.
HOUSE Of REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, FEB. 19, 1790.
In Committee of the tvfole, on the Report of the Secretary of the Treasury,
Mr. Madfon" smot'w'nfor a difcr initiation y Jti I hinder corf deration.
MR. ScorT observed that, inasmuch as he had exprefled his
fenriment6 generally on the fubjeft now under confidcra
tio«, when it bore a finape somewhat different from the prefrnt.,
and confideting that perhaps he might be induced to vote in a
manner that would not be understood without an explanation, he
requested the indulgence of the committee, whilst he attempted
to offer his sentiments freely upon the business immediately under
their notice.
The arguments of the gentlemen in opposition to the present
motion, when taken altogether, seem to reft their whole force
upon the idea of a contract said to be made, and of which con
tract the papers in que (lion are said to he evidences. This is a
doflrine which he absolutely denied. If those papers are evi
dences of any thing, it is of the pre-existing contrafb broken. At
what period, a iked Mr. Scott, did Congress contrail with their
soldiers ? At what period did they contratt with their citizens,
who furnifhed the neceflfary lupplies for our army ? Was it at the
time thole papers were issued, or long before ?—lt was long be
fore : consequently those papers cannot be esteemed as possible
evidences of any contrast, unless we refer to an implied contrail
made when they were ifltued, at theconcVufion of the war ; which,
in ta&, was the last conceivable period for the fettlcment of such
engagements as had exiiled long before, and to fulfil which was
totally out of the power of Congfefi. Surely then it must be al
lowed, tince it was not in their power to fulfil the original en
gagements, and finer it was not m the power of interested indi
viduals to compel them to compliance—that the contratt was com
pletely annihilated. and Congress was reduced to the neceffxty of
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN fFNNO, No. 9, ?,'AIi)l£N-LANh, NEW-YORK.
CONGRESS.
SATURDAY, march, 6, 1790.
offering some consideration in lieu thereof. What did they offer?
Papers of the nominal value of 20s. but of no more real value than
2S. 6d.
The original creditor, in consideration of the distress of his
country, and from dire neceflity, accepted of this ; and would,
with equal gencrtrfit-y, have accepted of the 2s. 6d. in cash, and
have figncd an acquitance for his pay as freely as he afligned o
ver that paper for 2s. 6d. to the speculator. Now if it be urged
by gentlemen, that this tranfaftion implies a contrail, it may be
confefled the papers in (jueftion afc evidences of such implied con
tract ; but of the real exiflence whereof there is ho proof.
Mr. Scott said he would also aver, that if we are to be #ovtrti
ed by this implied contract, the real value of the paper in question
is at ortce fixed by the mafket price, then current at as. 6d. in the
pound : the residue is the last grand fieri (ice which the original
creditors, as well citizens a? soldiers, made to iheir beloved coun
try. Thence it is evident there was no original consent of parties
obtained ; and hence no original contract exiited. This, said he,
is fair reasoning, against which no logic should prevail ; it is ar
guing from the truth, and the fcternal nature and fithefi of things.
But those papers, it has been said, are not only evidences of
contratt, but since they are payable to A. B. or bearer, the beare
is an original contra&or ! Where will this argument lead us ? /
robber on the high-way, a private thief, a fraudulent purchase
without cotifideration—if this argument be admitted—may all o
fcveially become bearer*. Are they severally original contrast
>rs ? Surely, no gentleman will pretend to fay that they arc
Neither is it poflible to detett those frauds, if what has been faic
is true, that many of those certificates were taken out originally
in fi&itious names. Suppdfe one of them has got into the hand
of the robber, the burglar, or thief; how will that man who ne
ver existed, appear in cotirt and convict him of the fraud ? Frotr
these premises, Mr. Scott inferred, that as this was a cafe with
out remedy, the bare poffeflion of a certificate is not a fuflicieni
evidence to prove the holder was an original cofitra&or.
At an early stage of this business the gentlemen in opposition tc
he amendment appeared to lay great ftreis on the want of autho
rity iti Congress to intermeddle in such cases : But as we get tor
ward the gentlemen appear to give up ; they have been beaten ofl
hat ground ; and the impolicy and impra&icability of the mca
ure is principally urged. Yesterday, however, these fame gen
lemen abandoned the latter, and tefumed the former Ration with
jreat avidity.
We are likewite tol<3, that altho in the parliament of Great-
Britain, vrtiich is Omnipotent, they can do anything: Yet we,
!>eirtg a Tfcgiflatitfe body whose authority is constitutionally con
ined to certain objects, cannot make the proposed aifcrimination.
Let us make some enquiry into this. Is not the whole business
>efore us of such a nature, that without our legislative interference
t irinft remain eternally aS it is ? 'fhis, it may be presumed, will
>e granted On all hands What folldws ? That as it is a proper
übieft of legislative difcuflion, the legiflatur* must, of neceflity,
nd from the nature of the thing, poflefs all poWefs neceflfary to
loingwhatis right and just in the premises ; and consequently
ve have the powef of discriminating, if justice and right demand
t. The arguments, thereto**, Which the gentlemen have adopted
>n this fdbjeft, as well as many others to v. hich they have occafi
mally retorted, must appear to the committee as p*rfe&ly incon
iftent and futile.
It may be Aeceflary, however, to aavert to one or two othet
samples of the fame complexion.
We are told, 44 that the advocates of the proposed amendment
ire acting oflicioufly ; no complaints having been laid before the
House ; no petitions ; no parties contending before us ; therefore,
fay thev, we have nothing to do witH,it ; (here Mr. Scott advert
ed to Mr. Bcnfon) thequeftion is not legally before the coUrt, &c."
This is, in similar Jjhrafe, " there is no writ foed out; no bill
filed ; no issue joined between parties."
In anfwerto this argument, said Mr. Scott, it is neceflary only
o obfefve, that every complaint of the people, by virtue of the
eptcfentattve capacity of their members, is properly, and to all
ntents and f>urpofes, before the House.
But we are further told, u that no facts have been proved ; we
lave no evidence, therefore we cannot proceed. " He granted that
io witneflfes had appeared to make oath, no swearing in court;
>ut will it follow from thence tfhat we are hot potfefled of the facts r
"ic presumed n6t. If the facts are within our knowledge, we are
nas full poHellion of them as if they hid been fwom to ; and
or many other facts, neceflary to the inveiligation of this bufi
iefs, we can resort to our public records. Moreover, there is
ittle use of evidence, Other than to inforrti ahd convincethe minds
)f the judges. As to the fruth and fallacy of the objection, how
hat information and h<fppens, it is very indifferent;
specially in a legislative body. In a word, the arguments to be
onterided wirti appear to move in so small and contracted a lphere,
s riever to extend beyond' rtie pleadings at the bar ol a county
ourt ; and consequently were vetfy unworthy the attentioh ot
he great American court of equity.
Mr. Scott remarked that,from these obfervation c ,it might be fUp
«oftd he would vote for the proposed amendment ; but he laid,he
clieved he fhould 1 not : Not on account of the demerit of the pro
»ofition,or the meri tof the arguments *hirh had been uled againlt
t. There were other confederations which cxifted, which Were
otonly unprovided for in the amendment, but it feemedto hin
if thev -re tarred therefrom.
as if tliey weK
One of these which came immediately within his own knov
edge and which mufrbe like-wise within ihe knowledge of m;
ny gentlemen in the House, oAc of whom had already mentione.
it, is this : Our quarter'-mafters, purchafeis, contraaors, die. o
Come of them, have been sent outamongft some of our citizens t<
procure supplies, without a (hilling in their pock ts : 1 hey havt
bbught, on trust, from individuals ; afterwaids, those individual
have been prevailed upon (without payment being made) to givt
receipts, as if they had been a£lually paid, on a pretext thaltht
accounts of the purchaser could not be fettled, nor money ob
taincd to p'aV thCiti, without those previous acquittances, " hen
thi» business originated He knew not, but he vouched for the Ia Hi
m a great number of inffcmceS to have come within hisknowledge.
The eonfequence appears to be,that those purchasers.on producing
the receipts, have obtained certificates foi the aggregate sum ir
their ovtfn names, as if for supplies by them furnittied and hav<
made no latisfaftion to the individuals.
Now, with refpea to thisfpecies of paper,thus procured by Iraiic
and lfTued without consideration given by the pcrfons to whom il
sued, he said he could not confertt to fund . Nav, he would loon
er part witfi his right'hand than content to fund certificates thu
circurtiftanced, and thereby fubjeft those very individuals thu
robbed of then property,to contribute towards paying the price o
that very property into the pockets of their robbers.
Shall it here be said, " the, courts are open, and the individuals
may there be redrerfed ?" Poor alternative indeed ! Where I, said
Mr. Scott, to (land upon this floor and hold forth such doctrine
as this, " that the courts are open — that the constitution contem
plates the United States as a body that may sue and be sued, and
«t£s,
PRICE THREE HOLLARS PR. ANN
points out certain proceedings which shall be had when the Uni
ted States become a party —and that therefore every holder of a
certificate has the recovery ot the money in his pow.r, on applica*
tion to the courts—ahd should I conclude that Congress has no
thing to do with the present business t"—Pray, what should I
mtrit by such pleadings ? 1 doubt whether I should merit pity—
contempt I might be certain of receiving.
Suffer me to ask, if the evil I have mentioned, be not too gener
al in its nature to adtnit of any remedy) but by a legislative mter
pofition ? May not many of those contractors be in a state of bank
ruptcy ? May not some of them have travelled to the Spanish main
to govern colonies ? May not Tome of thern havereturned to their
usual places of abode, at many hundred miles distance from the
defrauded individuals, as aforefaid ? And can it be supposed that
the widow and the fatherlefs, the poor and the needy, by them
thus defrauded, perhaps of a bullock, or some bushels of wheat,
individually, but in the whole, amounting to an enormous sum,
can follow them to obtain justice ? How are these plunderers to be
pursued ? And how can any thing be recovered frotn them in a
common court of law ? Especially when we consider that to all
the difficulties already mentioned, inuft be added, that the very
receipts under their own hands would be exhibited as evidence
against the injured, honest, original creditor !
Is not this cafe, as often to be met with as it is, beyond remedy
unless by the interposition of Congrels ? Now as this cafe is not
Dnly unprovided for, in the amendments proposed by the worthy
rentleman from Virginia, but the door seems to be shut against a
future provision ; and considering that the famegentleman, or some
nher, may bring forward fometliing that may reach to the root of
he evil, and produce more effe&ual justice : Under these con
iderrtions, said Mr. Scott, I shall at present vote against the pro
sofition ; but if I am disappointed in my expe&ations, and that
gentleman shall bring his proportions again forward in the hoilfe,
[ shall not suppose my felt' debarred from voting with him.
Mr, Seney rose and observed, that is was with relu£lancc he
ittempted to exprefsto the committee his ideas upon a qaeliion
<vhich had been so fully and ably difcuffcd. However, as it had
aeen expe&ed that gentlemen would not. in a cafe of such mag
litude, becontent with merely a silent vote, he rpfe to declare the
eafons upon which his decision was founded. In doing this, he
loped that he should not use epithets which might be deemed
larfh, or language which would be offenfive : that although the
entiments of other members should differ from his, he wished so
ar to respeCt those sentiments as to treat them with decency.
Heconfidered the proportion of the gentleman from Virginia
Mr. Madison) wasdefigned to efte6l two purposes*
The one, a compensation to the original creditors who, during
he late war, in times of distress, had loaned money, furnifhed
upplns and rendered military services ; and who had only receiv
d fatisfaflion therefor in paper of inconsiderable value, forced on
hem by the public, and depreciated by their a£ts. This class of
reditors, he conceived, had a just and equitable claim for the full
lifference in value between that paper, when paid, and specie.
The other object of the proportion alluded to, was, he said, to
ompenfate thole creditors who now hold alienated certificates.
Each description of those creditors had, in his opinion, claims
>n the public. The fiift was founded on an original contract
>etween them and the government, part of which only had been
:om plied with, and the residue iiill remained undischarged : the
ither was grounded on having polTeflion ot the paper which con
ained the promise to pav.
It hath been contended, said he, that the United St?tes have not
ibility to pay both. In this cafe a question arises, What is, upon
he whole, most just and expedient ? Some gentlemen contend#
hat it is incumbent on us to make full provision for those who
lold the certificates,without any for the original cred tors
vho have alienated them. Others think, that the misfortune of
[overnment, in this respeCt, should not be felt by either class
olely, but be born by both : that it is more just to adopt a mode
>f cowipofition, by which those creditors should mutually (hare in
his misfortune, and be rtiutually benefited by a provision within
>ur power to make. With those his sentiments accorded. He
:ould not V>e impressed with the justice or reason of a measure, cal
ulated to make a total facrifice ot one class of creditors, and full
jayment to the other class. Such a step could not, in his opinion,
>ejuftififd by any diftinttion or precedence which existed in their
laims. When it was considered that the original creditors fur—
lifhed money and supplies, and rendered services eflerittal to the
>reservation of their country, at a time when its liberties were in
aded, and every thing which can be dear to freemen was in
eopardy and at flake, he could not apprehend that their claims
vould be deemed inferior to those of their rivals. In his opinion
hefe circumstances entitled them to fupenor notice. Believing,
towever, that the amendment under consideration would, upon
he whole, effect more fubliantial justice than any other prattica
>le scheme which had been proposed to the committee, or which
ic had heard of, his aflent would therefore be given to it.
He then noticed a variety of objections which had,in the course
( f debate, been urged against the amendment he supported. Gen
lemen, he said, had insisted, that although the principle of it
night be right and proper, yet the execution of the scheme was
ltogether impratticable. They had also contended, that the a
;option of such a proportion would be a violation of those rules
yhich, as to contra&s, ought to be held sacred, and also of the
onftitution under which the government was then acting ; that
t would be disapproved of, even by the persons for whose benefit
he provision was intended.
He observed, that those who admitted the propriety of the
neafure as to the principle, could not be juftified in their oppo
ition upon the ground of impra&icability; that the honorable
nover of the amendment had, in the course of yesterday's debates,
uggefted expedients which would, in his opinion, remove the
;rcater part of the objections which ingenuity had urged in that
efpett : that some particular cases, perhaps, might exist, for
vhich fpeciaJ provilion would be iequifite : however, as that
entleman had declared his belief in the practicability of the ivf
em, such was Mr. Seney's confidence in the sincerity and ab'h
ties Of the person who made the declaration, that he was not dit
to fed to believe the reverse without giving an opportunity of proof,
n until some trial was made. It had been also objeCted, said he,
hat the proposed projeCt is violative of the rules which in con
rafts should ever be preserved : but how, he asked, could gen
lerrten reconcile this objection to the plan which they advocated r
vould it not operate with equal force to condemn that, as well
s every other, which had been contemplated ? The argument,
>y proving too much, ought therefore to have no influence upon
he question. It had also, he said, been mentioned, that the plan
n controversy was a violation ot the constitution, which every
nembw had taken an oath to support. This observation, he re
narked, might be made m terrorem, but could have little weighc
f the words of the constitution, in this respeCt, were attended to ;
hefe are, " all debts contracted, and engagements entered into,
tefore the ad option of the constitution, shall be as valid agamlt the
"nited S;afs under this constitution. as under the confederation :that the weds debts aid engagements, here expressed, would
comprehend as well the rcfidue fttll due to the officers, soldiers,
and other original creditors, as the claims of the present holders of
alienated certificates ; and that if the constitution created any ob
ligation concerning debts, &c. it had equal force with refpe£t to
every description of creditors. But he apprehended that the con
stitution did not, ,by the words expressed, place any debts allud
ed to in a situation different from that in which they were previ
ous to its adoption.
Great stress, said he, had been 1 id upon the pra&ice of other
nations. It had been frequently asserted, that the measure pro
posed was without a precedent in any country : it had been re
peatedly recommended to us to imitate the British parliament as
to measures touching public credit.
We howevei find, said he, a cause was cited yesterday, by an
honorable member from Virginia (Mr. Madison) in which they
made a provision as to debtors, similar to the one now under con
fidcration. If precedent is therefore to influence, we have one
from the nation whose public faith isextolled. But it had been ob
served by an honorable member from New-York (Mr. LawranceJ
that the precedent then cited was not applicable, because, said the
gentleman, the British parliament and Congress are bodies very
different as to power ; the former is omnipotent and unlimited
as to objects of legislation ; the latter is not so, but reftn&ed and
confined by the conffitution which controuls their power : That
the British parliament can therefore do many a£ls confident with
♦heir powers, which Congress cannot. This observation, said Mr.
Scncy, docs by no means diminish the force of the precedent ;
because, although Congress possess not power as to all obje&s of
legislation so extensive as the British parliament, yet, as to obje6ts
•within their power, they were as much omnipotent as that parlia
ment. It will not, he conceived, be denied, but that a provision
refpefting public credit was one of those objects ; with regard,
therefore, to the fubje£t under debate, there can be no difference
between the two bodies as to omnipotence.
It had been remarked, he said, by another member from New-
York (Mr. Benfon) that the adoption of the amendment would be
improper, because it was unsolicited by those whom it wa» de
signed to benefit; and because there was reason to believe it
would meet with difappiobation.
The gentleman, he said, had informed us of a resolve of the Cin -
cinnati of this State difavowingthe plan, and cited their proceed
ings as evidence to prove this disapprobation. In replv to this, he
would not then enquire how proper it would be for the commit
tee, in their dccifion, to be influenced by any a& of the Cincin
nati, or other focietv ; but believed, if the hiilory of the proceed
ing alluded to was fully known,nothing could be inferred from it
to effe£l that gentleman's purpose. That he had, since the pub
lication of their refolVe. been informed, that the meeting of the
society, at the time it pasTed, was not a full one ; that such a re
solve was unexpe&ed by many until proposed, and that it pasTed
•without debate, and, as it were, sub filcntio ; that he had since
been informed that several of the body disapproved of the resolve,
and believed that if a full meeting was had, a different determi
nation wonld be the rcfult. He had conceived that the worthy
members composing that body had too much experience of their
own fufferings to be opposed to a provision in favor of those cre
ditors for whom the compensation was intended, and could not
think that such a provision would bedifapproved of by a society
of the kind in any of the States. /
It had, upon this occasion, been after ted, said he, that public
opinion should have little influence on theconduft of legislatures.
But, notwithstanding the plausible reasoning he had heard upon
that head, he was fatisfied a regard was due and mufl be had to
the opinions of the people, and to their feelings. Government,
he said, was formed for their benefit ; under the prefentconftituti
on, all the powers of it flow from them as the 4 fource ; they have
the means of carrying into execution their will ; and under those
circum fiances he could not believe the legislature ought to be in
different as to their sentiments.
Gentlemen, he said, had founded their opposition to the amend
ment principally upon the rigid rules ftrittJv adhered to in the
courts of common law ; rules which had often been the means of
ftifiing justice, to corrett the rigour of which legislatures had often
mterpofed. Such rules couli not be proper fetters for the su
preme power of government. The history of Rations proves that
Jegifldtures are superior to them ; their objc&s are extensive ; and
m all extraordinary cases they will make luch provifiont as may
be requisite to effett general justice and equity. The cafe under
consideration was certainly one of an extraordinary kind. He
could not think that those, whose exertions had rescued them and
us from despotism and slavery, were ever honestly paid those
tard-eafned claims they were I'o justly entitled to ; and could not
but believe, that as long as those claims existed, there wonld exifl
a stigma on the justice, humanity, and gratitude of this country.
Mr. Livermore said he was against any discrimination between
the soldier, or other public creditor, who held a public security,
and the speculator who had purchased one. He said the securities
were made payable to the bearer, and consequently transferable,
intent that they might be fold, if convenience or nfceffity
ftiould require if. This had been well understood by all parties,
as well in America as in foreign countries, and securities had been
fold accordingly. The advocates for discrimination have not de
nied this ; they have only allcdged that the low rate at which the
poor soldier, or other public creditor, had fold their securities,
was a fufHcient reason for Congrefsto interfere and set aside the
file. In opposition to this, Mr. Livermore observed, that per
sons had a right to buy and fell at such prices as they could mutual
ly agree upon, provided there was no fraud.
A diamond, a horse, or a lot of ground, might be fold too
cheap or too dear, and so might any other property ; but govern
ment could not interfere without destroying the general system of
law and justice. Esau had fold his birth-right for a mess of pot
tage, and heaven and earth had confirmed the (ale. The distresses
of the army, both officers and soldiers. at the time they received
and fold their securities, had been painted in too strong a light.
T hcv were not so emaciated, by sickness or famine, as had been
represented. They were crowned with victory and received with
applause by their fellow-citizens; and although they had been
paid in'papcr,their loss had been made up by large bounties and m
other emoluments, so that, in point of property, they were equal
to their fellow-citizens, that had borne the burden of taxes, under
"which many were laboring to this day. Let them be called
brave fold iers. or pat riot 1 c soldiers, but not poor soldiers.
They ought to be governed by the fame system of justice that go
verns others ; but their contracts ought not to be fct aside out
rtf partiality to them. He said the cafe quoted from the statute of
Queen Ann, was not applicable to this cafe, inasmuch as govern
ment had not originally made the debentures therein mentioned
transferable. Neither, he said, did the cafe of the Canada bills
apply ; for, as he understood, those bills were paid to Britilh
merchants, or others, who had purchased them.
Mr. Livermore concluded, by faying that he should vote a
gainfl the araendmcn l , because no fufficient reason had been af
(igned that could operate in his mind against the general system of
right. (To be continued.)
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3.
Mr. Arnfs of the committee to whom was recommitted the bill
to provide for the rcmiflion or mitigation of fines, forfeitures and
penalties in certain cases, presented a report, which was read
On motion of Mr Lawrance the petition of Abraham Skinner,
«vas read the fccond time—and referred to a committe of three.
Mr. Sedgwick of the committee on the petition of Jehoiakim
Mtochkfin brought in a report which dated, that the circumstan
ces in the petition were fubflantiated—and proposed a resolve
that the petitioner (hould be entitled to receive one hundred and
twenty dollars out of the public Treasury, in full of his claims
againfttke Uaitrd State*.
Mi". Carrol afcer a few introductory observa
tions shewing that several members wished fur
ther time to digest the fnbjecl of the afl'umption
of the State debts propofedthat the committee of
the whole should be discharged from a further
attention to that part of the Secretary's report
for the prefent,and made a motion to that effe<ft,
which was Seconded : This motion was objected
to by Mr. Smith (S. C.) Mr. Lawrance and Mr.
Sedgwick—and supported by Mr. Seney, Mr.
White and Mr. Madison—the latter gentleman
proposed an amendment, so that the committee
should be discharged, till the Secretary of the
Treasury should communicate the information ex
pected from hiin on the fubjecft refpecfcing the re
sources to be appropriated for the purpose of
paying the debts to be afltimed : This motion
was considered as an indirect method of getting
rid of this particular part of the report altoge
ther—and those who considered this part as in
Separably conne&ed with all the reft observed,
that if this was pafled over they should be totally
at a loss how to aiflwith refpedt to the other
obje&s of the report.
It was further said that if this vote was adopt
ed, it would place the State debts in a less eligi
ble situation than those of the continental—when,
as it was contended they ttood 011 equally merito
rious sooting—these observations were concluded
with a motion that the committee fliould suspend
rhe confederation of the whole report, and not
have reference to any particular part of it.—All
idea of getting rid of the business as had been
fuggelted, was disclaimed by Mr. Carrol—He
thought the observation uncandid.—The differ
ence between the Stare and continental creditors
was urged by those who were in favor of the mo
tion—and the acts of the old Congress to that
purport, were cited—lt was said that no idea of
opposition to this motion was expected, as the
committee mull fee the propriety of waiting for
the requisite information from the Secretary of
the Treasury—The question on this motion be
ing taken, was negatived.
In committee of the whole on the natnraliza
tion bill—the subject of admitting foreigners to
the right of holding lands occasioned considera
ble debate—it was urged that the power of form
ing a uniform rule of naturalization is veiled in
Congress by the constitution exclusively—and
cannot reft in the States, without involving the
greatest absurdity—as every State has its parti
cular mode—from which every difficulty was
experienced—lt is therefore neceflary that Con
gress fliould determine upon a rule which fliould
operate equally through all the States and gn to
effecting complete citizenfhip.—ln reply to these
observations it was said that the mode ofadmiffion
to citizenship only, could be uniform ; that Con
gress cannot interfere with the laws and regula
tions of the several States—their power extends
only to the rule, but the subsequent parts of ci
tizenship must depend on the regulations of the
respective States—when a foreigner is natural
ized, he will immediately enquire what rights he
becomes entitled to by virtue of his new charac
ter —on motion
Thefecond and third fedi'ions which related to
foreigners holding lands were (truck out. The
committee having proceeded through the discus
sion, rose and reported the bill with amendments
—and the House ordered the fame to be engros
sed for a third reading.—Adjourned.
THURSDAY, MARCH 4,
Mr. Contee took his feat this day.
The bill providing a uniform rule of na
turalization, was brought in engrossed—read the
third time, and pafled to be enatfted.
The bill providing for the remission or mitiga
tion of fines, forfeitures, and penalties, in certain
cases, was read the second time, and referred to
the committee of the whole house, to be taken up
to morrow.
Several petitions were read and committed
In committee of the whole on the bill to pro
mote the progress of the ufeful arts. The bill
was read, and difcufled in paragraphs. The
clause which gives a party a right to appeal to a
jury from the ilecifion of referees, it was moved,
fliould be struck out. This motion was opposed,
as depriving the citizen of a right to which he is
entitled—as improper in itfelf, as causes of very
great magnitude may be depending, which it may
be highly improper to submit to the decision of
three men only, two of which may be so different
ly interested, as never to agree—so that the deci
sion may finally result from the influence of the
pei foil nominated by the Secretary of State. On
the other hand it wasfaid, that it appears highly
improper that juries should be called tojudge up
on matters that they may not be supposed com
petent to forming a judgment os—these trials will
always relate to matters of invention, &c. of
which three persons may be found with much
greater ease who are competent to judge,
than twel-e—that the right of trial by juries'
is not universal—and in the present cafe there
will be a much greater probability of having jus
tice done by arbitrators, who are men offcience
&c. The motion for linking cut was carried in
the affirmative.
374
The committee proceeded further in the dis
cussion of this bill—but rose without compleatine
it—and the chairman reported progress.
A report was received from the Secretary of
theTreafury, pursuant to orders from the House
and read. '
FRIDAY, MARCH j
Mr. Foflerof the committee on the memorials
of the people called quakers ref'peciing the slave
trade brought in a report, which was read.
Mr. Gerry presented a petition from Catha
rine Greene relidl of the late Major General
Greene—which was read.
Mr. Scot moved that the memorial of Richard
Wells and J. Hart refpe<fting the old paper mo
ney, ffiould be referred to the committee of the
whole House.
The question being taken the motion was ne
gatived—it was then moved that it be referred
to a feledt committee often members—which pas.
fed in the affirmative.
A memorial was presented by Mr. Tucker from
the officers of the Soutli-Carolina line of the late
army.
In committee of the whole <>n the bill for the
remission, or mitigation of fines, penalties and
forfeitures in certain cases—the bill was read
and having made one amendment the committee
rose, and reported the lame to the House, who
ordered the bill to be eugroffed for a third read-
ing.
In committee of the whole on the hill to pro
mote the progress of the ufeful arts—Sundry a
mendments were made in this bill, which were
reported to the House, these amendments with
several others were agreed to, and incorporated
in the bill, which was ordered to be engrofledfor
a third reading on Monday next.
A meflage from the Senate informing that they
have pafledan acfl to accept of the cession of cer
tain lands in the Western Teiritory, made by
the State of North Carolina—Alfo,that they have
palled arefolve, forgiving further inftru<ftjons
to the colletftors of import in the United States,
in which they request the concurrence of the
Honfe.
The bill to provide for the reiniffion, or mi
tigation of fines, forfeitures and penalties was
brought in,engrofled, read the third time,aador
derea to lie on the table.
The a<fl aod resolve received from the Senate
were then read.
The petition of Mrs. Greene was read a fecotfd
time, and referred to a committee of five.
The report of the committee on the letter from
the commissioners on accounts, refpe<fiing the sa
laries of the Clerks in their office was read---A
motion for recommitting this report, and inftruft
ing the conimitte to bring in a bill pursuant there
to, occasioned considerable debate refpecfting the
difference between a resolve and a law—the mo
tion for recommitting pafled in the affirmative—
the fubjeft of the south western frontiers being
moved for—the galleries were shut.
Adjourned till Monday.
li Treasury Department, March 4, 1790.
In obedience to the Order of the Houfc of Representatives, of the second
injl. The Secretary of the Treasury refpeftfutly reports,
THAT in his opinion, the fundsin the nrft instance requisite to
wards the payment of interest on the debts of the individual States,
according to the modifications pmpofed by him in his report of
the ninth of January past, may be obtained from the following ob
jects :
An increase of the general produtt of the duties on goods im
ported, bv abolishing the discount of ten per cent, allowed by the
fifth feftion of the A6l for laying a duty on goods, wares, and mer
chandize, imported into the United States, in refpett to goods im
ported in American bottoms, and adding ten percent, to the rates
fpecified, in refpett to goods imported in foreign bottoms, with
certain exceptions and t qualifications : This change, without im
pairing the commercial policy of the regulation, or making an in
convenient addition to the general rates of the duties, will occasion
an augmentation of the revenue little short of two hundred thou
sand dollars.
An additional duty on imported sugars. Sugars arc an objett
of general csnfumption : and yet constitute a small proportion of
the expence of families. A moderate addition to the present rates
would not be felt. From the bulkinefs of the article too, such an
addition may be made with due regard to tfce fafety of collcftion.
The quantity of brown and other inferior kinds of sugar import
ed, appears to exceed twenty-two millions of pounds, which at a
half cent per pound, would produce one hundred dnd ten thou
sand dollars. Proportional impositions on foreign refined iugar,
nnd proper diawbacks on exportation, ought of courfc to indem
nify the manufacturers of this article among ourselves.
MolafTes, being in some of the States a substitute for sugar, a
small addition to the duty on that article, ought to accompany
an increase of the duty on sugar. This, however ought to be re
gulated with proper attention to the circumflance, that the fame
article will contribute largely in the fliape of distilled spirits.
Half a cent per gallon on molafle«, would yield an annual sum of
thirty thousand dollars. Our distillers of spirits from this mate
rial, may be compensated, by a proportional extenfionof thedu
ty on imported spirits.
Snuff, and other manufactured tobacco, made within the Uni
ted States : Ten cents per pound on the Snuff, and fix cents on
other kinds of manufactured tobacco, would be likely to produce
annually, from ninety to one hundred thousand dollars. From
as good evidence as the nature of the cafe will admit, the quan
tity of these articles manufactured in the United States, may be
computed to exceed a milion and a half of pounds. The impo
sition of this duty would require an increase of the duty on im
portation, and a drawback on exportation, in favor of the manu
facture. Thi* being an absolute fuperfluity, is the faireft objeCt of
revenue that can be imagined, and maybe so regulated, as in n«
degree, to injury either the growth, or manufacture of the com
modity
Pepper, pimento, spices in general, and various other kinds of
groceries. Thrfe articles will bear such additional rates, as may
be eft i mated to yield a sum of not less than thirty thousand dollars.Computing according to the entries in the State of New-York, in
1788, thcyearly quantity of pepper and pimento brought into the
United States, 1? not less than eight hundred thousand pounds, of
which about a third is pepper. Six cents on pepper, and four
cents on pimento (with draw-back? on exportation) may without
inconvenience, be laid.
Salt. An additional duty of fix cents per bufhcl, may, in the
judgment of the Secretary, with propriety be laid on this article.
It is one of those obje&s which being consumed by all, will be
luoft produ&ive, and yet from the fmallnefs of the quantity in
which it is consumed by any, and of the price, will be lea It bur
thenfome, if confined within reasonable limits. If a government
does not avail itfelf, to a proper extent, of resources like these, ii
iriufl of necefllty overcharge others, and particularly, give greater
scope to direst taxation. The quantity of this article, annually
imported, being at least a million and a half of bushels, the annu
al product of an additional duty of fix cents may be computed at
ninety thousand dollars.
Carriage-, such as coaches, chariots, &c. These articles may cer
tainly be the fubjeft of a considerable duty. How productive it
would be, is not easy to be estimated. But it is imagined, that it
would yield not less than fifty thousand dollars per annnm.
Licenses to prattifers of the law. Certain law proceedings,
and various kinds of writings. The extent of this resource can on
ly be determined upon trial; but the Secretary feels a strong assur
ance, that there may be drawn from it yearly, not less than two
hundred thousand dollars. The system for colle&ing a duty of
this kind, would embrace playing cards, and some other obje&s
of luxury, which do not fall under the above descriptions, but
which are estimated in the supposed produtt.
Sales at auction (exclusive of houses or lands, Or those made in
consequence of legal process, or of acknow4edged infelvency.)
One per cent on such sales, would, probably, produce a yearly sum
of forty or fifty thousand dollars.
Wines and ipirits fold at retail. These articles are, in the opin r
ion of the Secretarv, capable of being rendered far more produc
tive, than has been generally contemplated ; and they are, cer
tainly, among the most unexceptionable obiefts of revenue. It is
presumed, that two hundred thousand dollars per annum, may,
with facility, be colletted from the retail vent of these articles.
The foregoing objects, arc those, which appear to the Secretary,
preferable towards a provision for the debts of the individual
States. There are others which have occurred to him as fupple
meutary, in cafe the experiment Ihould discover a deficiency in
the expe&ed product ; but which he conceives it unnccefiary now
to detail. He will only add, that he entertains no doubt of its
being practicable to accomplifti the end, on the punciples of his
former report, without the neceflity of taxing, either houses or
lands, or the stock or produce of farms.
The Secretary conceiving the design of the House to have been
to obtain from him a general delineation only of the funds, com
petent in his judgment to the provision in question. has refrained
from those details, which would be indilpenfable, if that pro
vision were immediately to be made ; and to have furnifhed which
would have occasioned greater delay than would, probably, have
suited with the present ftatc of the business or the convenience of
the House. He with great deference trufh, that what is now of
fered will be deemed a fatisfaftory compliance with their order.
The statement required refpe6ting the product of the duties on
imports and tonnage to the la 11 of December, as far as returns have
come to hand, is contained in"the fchedulc herewith presented.
All which is humbly submitted,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Secretary of the Treasury.
Abflratt of the nett proceeds of the duties on Imports
and Tonnage.
N. Hampshire, from Augufl u,
Maflachufetts, — — 10,
Connecticut, — — 11,
New York, — — J,
New Jersey, — — — I,
Penniyivania, — — 10,
Delaware, — — 1,
Maryland, — — — 10,
Virginia, — — 17,
S. Carolina, — — 31,
Georgia, — — 22,
Dollars, 784,487 14}
DeduCifor drawbacks, ipr. cent. 15,689 74
Dollars, 768,797 40J
Port of Bojlon only to 19M December.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
HAPPENING in the gallery of the Iloufe of
Representatives, when the bill for regulate
ing the Poft-Office, as reported by a Committee,
was read, 1 was not a little surprised to find no
mention made of European Packets. The extra
ordinary manner in which the Engliffi Mails are
received and delivered at the Poft-Office in this city,
appears to me to require the interpolition of the
Legiilative Body. lam told, and I believe it to
be true, that when a Packet from England arrives
at this port, the Mail is immediately taken to the
house of the Britiffi Agent, where it is by him
opened, and fucliletters taken out ashepleafes—
after which it is fentto the Poft-Office. Thelet
ters for Europe that are to be sent by Packets, are
received at the Poft-Office, and sent by the Post-
Kalter to the British Agent—who has again the
privilege of culling them. Dispatches for his
Britannic Majeftv's officers, and all letters for Ca
nada, are reserved by the Agent, which I conceive
mull very materially injure the revenue of the
Poft-Office Department. At a moderate calcula
tion, the poftageofthem toAlbany wonldamount,
during the winter season, when they can be con
veyed no other w r ay, to IJOO dollars. Such liber
ties to an American Agent I fancy would hardly
be granted in any part of Europe—and in Great
Britain it would be a novelty indeed, to find even
an Embaflador conveying mails thro its domin
ions by any other channel than the Poft-Office.—
You may possibly hear from me again, when Con
gress resumes this business. Z.
New York, February 22, 1790.
A REPORT having circulated, founded as it is pvblkly ajerted, on
the heji authoiitv, that 44 when the qurfiion was moved at the IJI
meeting oj the Society of the Cincinnati of the State of New-York Jot difa
vewivg certain prv cples contained in a petition publifkcd in the public p?-
p&TSf .vid recommended to the attention of the office/> and foldierr of the
late army, mofi of the members present were taken withfurprfe, and the
mam queflion pa/fed fab filenfio, but that many of the members [wee have
exprcjjed their difapprobatian of the resolution, and it isfuppofed, if there
should be a full meeting of the society had on the fame queflion, the sense
oj the majority would be again fl itße it remembered, That the follow
ing notice was published in the New-York Daily Gazette of January 1,
1 79°*
d general meeting of the New-York State Society of the Cincinnati,
will be held on Monday the firfl day oj February next, at 6 o'clock, P.
M. at the Lodge Room in Cortlandt-Street—The pungual attendance of
the members is required. " By order of the President,
J*"- ' JOHNSTAGG,jun. Sec'y."
And that after it was made known, that the petition above
mentioned would be submitted to the society for their eonfderation, the
following notification was addrejjed to every member in the city, andfent
by the Secretary to their houses, viz.
" SIR,
11 A general meeting of the New-} ork State Society of the Cincinnati,
will oe held on Monday the Jirfl day of February next, at 6 o'clock, P. M.
at the Lodge Room in Cortlandt Street; your punflual attendance is re
queued. By order of the President,
>>1.28,1790. ' JOHN STAGG, jun. Sec'y."
That on the evening of the firfl of February a great
er number of members (than ufualJ appearing, and many more than the
number requisite to do business, the society proceeded to examine the situa
tion of their funds, and to receive the reports of thefeveral committees, on
the points which had been committed to them at the lajl genera! meeting.
The petition referred to was then laid bejore the (ociety at or about 9
o'clock, and it was ordered to be read.
A motion was then made, 44 1 hat the Society reject the petition and
disavow the principles it contains this motion was seconded, and a re
solve submitted to the consideration of the Society, and after a confidera
bledebate relative to the wording of the re solve (its principles never being
objeQed to) and amendments being propojed and passed, one member rai
sed doubts refbetting the expediency of pajfingthe re solve-, and moving the
previous queflion, which being lofl, the queflion was taken on the reso
lution, as has been published, at eleven o'clock ; and so far from p l ff l,t g
Tub silent io, that the ayes founded as an unanimous vote ; and when on
motion, the queflion wai reversed, there was not a dijjenting voice.
It was then moved andfeconded, that the resolve be published in the
public papers, of this city, and pajjed unanimously.
A true Jlatement of the Proceedings of the New-York State Society oj
the Cincinnati, held at the Lodge Room, in Cortlandt-Street, on Monday
the Ift day of February, 1790. JOHN S TAGG, jun. Sec*ry.
niurfday last was the annivcrfary of the firft meeting of Con
gress under the new constitution—a day to be remembered with
peculiar pleasure by all the friends to the civil rights—the proper
ty, happiness and future glory of these riling Slates—on thataufpi
cious day, wc received the surest pledge of enjoying and perpetu
ating the invaluable acquisitions of " Peace, Libert), and Safety."
" Then old anarch's kingdom fell"—and our country invigorated
in her councils, and animated by her profpefts commenced anew,
her career in the road of empire, fame, and honor.
Some persons in writing and fpcaking of the general govern
ment, use such a stile as would lead a stranger to suppose they had
reference to a foreign jurifdittion : To fay nothing of the injustice
of this pra&ice, it is injurious to the elTential inteiefts of the State
and General Governments, as it has a tendency to excite jealousies,
create diihn&ions, and form an ideal incompatibility of interells
—whereas we mull all stand or fall together—and an enemy of the
General Government is an enemy of the State Governments, and
vice vcrfa.
Doubtless there are foir.c spirits in all fociecies
of so malignant an afpetft, that they never can be
at ease, while the people are happy under any
fyftein of government whatever—these persons
endeavor to iniprefs on the public inind that go
vernment is an evil—they will acknowledge,
merely to save appearances, that it is a
evil—lt will be well to attend to the operation
of this fentiinent ; from cohfidering government
as an evil, we aie naturally led to consider those
that administer it, as evil instruments in an evil
cause—this transition is easy ; and perhaps is
one of the mod plausible foundations on which
the unprincipled disturbers of human happiness,
can raise a fyftein of fuccefsful sedition.—From a
specious concern for the public good the bell: ad
ministration that ever was formed may be attack
ed, with a probable chance of making irnpref
fions to its disadvantage—and to the infinite in
jury of the public interest. This fentiinent in
dependent of its filfehood, and pernicious ten
dency, contains likewise a most infamous satire
on human nature —for as mankind cannot subsist
as civilized communities, without laws and go
vernment, they must either be governed as ra
tional beings who know how to combine their se
veral interests for the mutual benefit of the whole
—or, beconfidered (if inaftate of society) as as
fociating animals, united by bonds formed on a
principle of universal suspicion of each other.—
This latter idea ofgovernment would correspond
with the temper and genius of such persons ; for,
judging from their own particular bias, or pro
pensity, they realize that confidence, in fuchago
vernment, would be forever disappointed in its
expectations.
The revolution of America is not founded on
the idea that government is aneceflary evil—but
on the reverse that it is the choicest blelfing hea
ven ever has bellowed on the human race—and
the refined, free, liberal state of society which
the United States are now enjoying, under the
new constitution, evinces thefalfhood of the idea
it fuggefls also this pleasing reflection, that
as we have made so great, and obvious progrefe
in improving the condition of human nature, we
shall continue to persevere in the line of the con
stitution—by supporting and strengthening the
hands of our civil rulers—by a generous disdain
of the feeble, but malicious invecftives and flan
ders of those, whose envy at our growing great
ness, and encreafing happiness, can find no reft,
but in venting itfelf in lies and defamation—and
in attempts to belittle the free and independent
citizens of this glorious country in their own
eyes.
The people of the United States are at this mo
ment in a more eligible situation, than any other
7,789 314
"3,439 54k
20,352 87$
152,198 97
6s
"s.
«■
v>
C|
rri
O
H
0
M
• ,971 51
188,494 94
6,573 9 8 4
87,751 64
142,028 62
55,032 61.
8,850 Bo|
375
NEW-YORK, MARCH 6.
nation now upon the faccof the globe—nor have
we any reason to suppose, that any of rlie nations
that have gone before us, ever enjoyed a greater
degree of pofirivehappinefs—and with refped: to
our profpetts, we may jultly aflert that the expe
rience of mankind has never produced a parellel
—but there are fame persons who would be tor
mented by a situation in paradise—would even a
celeflial adminifixation please such characters !
I trow not.
The society of the Cincinnati of this State at a
late meeting, voted unanimously, to celebrate the
birth day of the President of the United States in
future.
The St. Tammany society have voted .that
they would celebrate this event, on the 32d.dav
of February—the society of the Cinci n n ati have
not announced their day.
The House of Aflenibly of this State has pafled
a Resolution, appointing His Excellency George
Clinton, Richard Varick, and John- Wats,
Esquires, Commilfioners, with authority to build
a Government House, on the ground where the
Fort stands, andto draw twenty tkoufand dollarx
out of the Treasury of this State for that purpose.
The said building to be appropriated for the ac
commodation of The President of thfe United
States, whileCongrefs remain in this city.
On Thursday last Mr. Arthur Lee took the
neceflary oaths for his admiilion to the bar of the
Federal Court, as aCounfellerat Law.—This gen
tleman, (whose talents and law knowledge so
eminently diftinguilhed him in the Courts of
Westminster, prior to the commencement of the
late glorious revolution, in the whole course of
which his abilities and patriotism were fofuccefs
fully exerted for the benefit of his country,) will,
we doubt not, be another shining ornament roth*
Federal Bar—and will, we hope, meet with tliofe
returns from his fpllow citizens, in the line of his
profeffion, which long-tried integrity, and
high charaiSer justly entitle him to: Thole con
siderationS, we hear, have induced the Hon. Jud
ges of the Supreme Court todifpenfe with a fpe
cialrule of the Court in his favor, which preclu
ded [the admiflion of any person as a counsellor,
who had not practiced as such in some of the Su
perior Courts of the States for three 1 years ante
cedent to the adoption of the New Constitution.
Every friend to America must be highly grati
fied, when he peruses the long lift df eminent and
worthy characters, who have come forward as
Practitioners at the Federal Bar—where the raoft
important rights of Man must, in time, be discus
sed, and determined upon, as well those of na
tions, asof individuals. Happy country ! Whose
Judges, (rendered independent—and feledled
for their wisdom and virtue,) constitute so firm a
barrier againll tyranny ana usurpation on the
one hand, and fraud and licentioufiiefs on the
other.
Ot Members of Congress chosen in the State of North Carolina,
we have only heard of The Hon. llugh Will i am son, and The
Hon. J. B. Ash, Esquires.
SUBSCRIPTION FOR A MEDAL OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES.
MED ALS.from the earliefl period of time, have been regard
cd, by every enlightened people, as the greatest help to hijlon, andthr
bejl method of transmitting to poflerity the memory oj the heroes and patn
its oj the age, and one oj the mofl honorary compliments a grateful pec
pie could confer on their favourites ; —As the hiflory of mankindfurm Cu
es no inflance of a hero or patriot who has better deferred, or has been
more jujlly intitled to the affeflions or ejleem of a grateful people, than,
the Pre/ident of the United States—an aitijl is induced to offer tc the citi
zens of America, a medal with aJlriking and approved likeness, andfuck,
inferjptions or allegorical figures hs Jhall beflfiit so great a charaEler ;
and he humbly hopes to be honoured with their patronage.
7oSubscriber s—a medal will be delivered of fine white metal. to
resemble ftlvrr,for one dollar ; of a fine, gold-colored metal, for two dol
lars ; offnefuverfor four dollars ; and of gold in proportion to weight.
Subscribers will please to particular ifg the kind they choose. As
the medals are now Jlriking, and will be ready to deliver in a few days
after the order comes to hand, it is hoped every gentleman will pay at the
time of fubferibing.
%* Subscriptions will be received at the Toft-Office in this Ci
ty;—or an-} gentleman may have any number sent to any part of the conti
nent, by his order and remittance for the fame, to J. MANLY, to the
care o/Robf rt Pat ton, Etq. Pofl Mafier, Philadelphia.
COPY—IVE, the underfignea, have seen the medal of the President of
the United States; and think it a strong and exprefjive likeness, and wor
thy the attention of the citizens of the United States of America.
Thomas Mifflin, governor oftheflate of Penvfylvania.
Richarij Peter speaker oj the house of ajfemblf.
Christian Febigkr, treasurer of the state.
Francis Johnston, colonel of the lute American army,
Philadelphia, February 22, 1790.
ALEXANDRIA, Feb. 18.
On Thursday last an elegant Ball was given at Mr. Wife's Ta
vern, in commemoration of (hat auspicious day wh'ich gave to the
world the illuflrious and beloved President jf the United States.
The company was numerous and brilliant. Every heart expand
ed with tnofepleafurable emotions which the happy occasion na
turally inspired. Every countenance was fuffufed with joy, Beau
ty—always powerful—now arrayed in universal fmiles—(hone
with unusual splendour. Most of the gentlemen present had been
witnelTes of the affectionate and pathetic leave which (he Patriot
and the Hero had taken of this town and neighborhood last Jpring,
when called by the Unanimous voice of his countrymcn to fill the
chair of empire.
In the very room where they were aflembled to celebrate the
day of his nativity they had seen him laboring with sensations,
almost unutterable, excitfd by the necefiity of bidding adieu to
those whom he was pleased to honor with the appellation nf
" affeflionatefriends and kit d neighbouts." Upon this endear
ing circumftancc they reflected, and will continue to reflrfVwith
peculiar complacency. Long—-ery long—t/iav this great and
good man live, to receive this annual tribute of the eftretn, the
affection, and the veneration of a grateful pieop'e !
ARRIVALS.—A'EIi'- YORK.
Wtdnrjilay. Sloop Dolphin, Carpenter, Snvannah. p uays.
Friday. Sloop Betsy, Brook*, Philadelphia, 6 davs.fron the Mary land Jou h na l ar.d B.» ltimobeAdvertiser
THE jEOLIAN-HARP
An LxtraHJrom" The SYMPATHIES of SOUND." tfc.
(-4 Poem, not pubhjhcd.)
WHEN funlcfs twilight dims departing day,
And silent darkness, in her wonted way,
Rolls on the deep'ning Ihades, till closing night,
Rcpos'd in {lumber quenches human fight ;
When, inward turn'd, and wand'ring now no more
O'er hill and dale, the Soul can best explore
The regions of Idea—where wonders rife—
A never-ending train ! to mental eyes
Give mc to listen in the lonely room,
Where fitted to enchant amid the gloom,
Th' ytoLiAN Harp, with ear-bewitching wail,
Drinks in the current of the airy gale :
When dealing breezes, easy on their way,
Creep on the cords, and vibrate these to play :
Then, O what melodies uniting flow,
Harmonious trembling to the breathing wo :
Such foftly-foothing modulation swells,
Tingling the firings among, like distant bells ;
So mournful dying down the finking wind,
As pours a stream of rapture o'er the mind.
Htifh'd then the found a moment paufinglics,
Till rung fymphonious sweeter tones arise,
Twang'd in melodious millions—firing to string,
Romantic, then their fr>ft Pianos fmg ;
Full, lull and fad, the fairy accents fly,
And speaking perish, tell iheir tale and die :
Till conjured by the breathing'breeze, again
They come, they swell, and fink in foffer pain ;
Borne on their magic wings, to fwift decay,
Unnumbered notions, rising, melt away ;
Back, back, to distant days, forever gone,
They charm the mind with the memorial moan :
For, from the far-fled past, on airy wing,
The necromantic melodies can bring
The joys, the sorrows, long, long since no more,
That tlow'ring dy'd in worlds enjoy'd before.
The pensive-pleased foul with many a sigh
Insetted thus, grows fad, and knows not why :
Whilst misty pi&ures (hooting through the mind
In mingling currents, indiftinft combind,
Haft , haste along, as new fucceflions flow.
Soft, sweet, and fad, in joy, and folcmn wo.
Or, dim refle&ed, visionary things,
From future worlds, Anticipation brings :
Drawn thro the rueful light of umber gleams,
Or yellow luitre etherial dreams,
Event on event, op'ning. without end,
Whose closing links man cannot comprehend :
Stiuck from the transient, airy, elfin things,
Whose playful fingers sport amongthe firings :
A higher animation moves the mind,
In tender s&nsibi lity refin'o ;
Till caughtj>y Sympathy to fields unkown,
Where free from Matter, Spirit dwells alone, —
The foul renews its primitive employ,
And taftcs the purest inter mundane joy :
She feels harmonious from the trembling string,
Congenial motion, Music thence can bring ;
For fare that spark of never-dying flame,
Dcriv'd from harmony etcrnal came ;
And thus attra&ive touch'd, expands away
so other worlds of far fercner day :
That unrcmembev'd ftatc, from man conceal'd,
Where mind deborn fits in its native field :
For who can tell, when earth's dark days are done,
But future time ihall fee a brighter fun !
For, present ills of poverty and pain,
Like earth's own darkness, arc not fen* in vain ;
But from that very source IhaH joys arise,
1 ranlcendc nt glorious to the good and wise.
THEOLOGISTORICOPHILOSOPHOLOGOS.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
LETTER. No. V.
MR. FBNNO,
DISTANT as the evils I have enumerated are from us; (low as
would betheir growth, were opinions like these adopted,
they would be no less certain. A more gradual manumiflion, if
inhtbitancy among us is thereby understood, would infufc its
baneful cffefls only by flower degrees. Sure we arc in duty baund,
to transfer the blclT:ngs received from providence, unimpaired to
our offspring : It cannot be right td charge our posterity, out of
geperonty to our slaves, with evils subversive of the present fclicity
ol the empire. Here I mull ftopj-it will be said, and I believe
it, that I have attacked opinions flowing from refpcflable sources;
therefore I almolt expect, to be largely lepaid in the fame coin
but as I did not mern, either to offend, or to dictate, if my o
pinions are honored with the notice of a learned criticiCm, I la
ment, I can only improve my judgement by it, as my leiiure is
taken up by avocations, which allow no time for controvcrfies.
From the grounds I have travelled over, I come to the means
to obviate the evils I have represented. Benevolence is, I know,
natural to American freemen, they will bellow with liberal hand*
blcflings upon others: Confident thffthis fmtiment is general,
I will, in my next, submit to the better undei(landing of an en
lightened public, a plan of thi-s tendency : To lei Ten slavery gra
dually without a fliock to private property : To manumit without
injury to society the (lave, who has deserved that favor, and to
provide for him, as well as for those who are already (lamped with
this maik of munificence by their generous masters.
However, before I go imo an explanatory dil'cuflion of these
articles, I mull fii ft predispose to the fubjeft, what I have said in
letter the 3d —That " if nations are not compelled by circum
" (lances, they will fuffer no (laves among them." I apprehend
that some of our southern States are in that compulsory situation,
becaufethe ntimbrT of freemen bears no proportion to the extent
of ground : This has greater influence there, than in the northern
States, where the climate is favorable to the conflitution of a peo
ple of European origin ; but when the {outhern Slates have acqui
red a population, proportionate to the extent of ground ; when
cultivation will have made the air salubrious, then (laves will be
nearly as needless there as they are now in the northern States.
Considering also the countenance, which the fathers of the fe
deral government, our worthy rulers, have given to agriculture,
■we may fafely conclude, that this will be productive of many
inventions, facilitating, and abridging handywork in agriculture :
Yet taking only what is already invented, (h'ould gentlemenchoofe
to make use of them, not only half the quantity of (laves in the
southern Statt s would be fufficient for agriculture, but there would
aHo be twicc as much ground tilled as there now is.
FOR THE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN'NO,
RUSTIC US in his third letter tells us, that he " was compelled
to travel over philosophical and hiftoricalgrounds,to find
tiie place of the -wool hairy negro in the ordfr of nature," and con
cludes, that as the ox is born to till his ground, so ii the negro born
to be the fl<ivc of other nations. " Moll lame and impotent con
clufioti-'—even could our philosopher prove that the ficep hairy
African is an inferior animal to the long haired European (which
1 hope I have shewn to be a falfe as well as ungenerous idea) ilill
how absurd is the notion, thcrt nature JhoiJd form an animal, endue
him with reasoning powers, and place him in a clime congenial to his
frame ; only that he Jhould be torn away from that climate to serve ano
ther animal differing from him only in the colour of his jkin and length
of his hair. Our philosopher tells us, that amongst animated be
ings, the weakest is ruled by the strongest. This we are to sup
pose is a law of nature—a law tor man—that whoever is ftr >nger
than his neighbor, may seize him and fell or force him to till his
ground, or whoever is wiser than another, may over reach and
despoil him of his property — What becomes of the generous prin
ciple which teaches the strong to protest the weak. P No, this is
not the nature of man—"she savage does not so—'tis the civilized
European that takes advantage ot the superiority, civilization gives
him over the untutored African, and robs him ot his liberty to in
dulge himfelf in luxury—'Tis the civilized European that cor
rupts the African, and prompts him like the white to betray his
brother—and such philosophers as Rufticus, would persuade the
European that he is right.—Neither is the (heep hairy African in
ferior in strength of body or mind to the European. Civilization
is all that gives the boasted superiority, and according to our phi
losopher's principle, the most powerful nation has a natural right
to seize on the property and persons of the weaker. So not only
the sheep hairy negro is born for slavery, bat the trorfe hairy na
tive of America, or in short, people of black, brown or read hair,
if another people have force or cunning to subdue them. Most ad
mirable philosophy ! After all his pains and trouble to convince
the world that from our inferior nature, we black, sheep hairy
negroes are marked out for flaves.—Rufticus concludes that it is
impolitic to keep us so.—~ Then why endeavor to lower us in the
eyes of our white brethren ? Are we not already fufl&ciently des
pised ? When my daily work is done, and I put on my Sundays
cloaths to fit myfelf for the converse of thoteuvphilofophic men who
patronize me ; as I pass through the street how often do I hear—
Kye ! Mafia Mungo ! you ttnka you buckra ; while another curses
the damn'd proud negro ! These are the sentiments which the pen
of a philosopher is labouring to encourage.—lf pride must be the
consequence of human wisdom, may I still remain in fimplicityof
heart, a plain, unphilofophic, black, sheep hairy, free citizen of
America. AFRICANUS.
THE tnagiftrates of Liege have ifl'ued an order
to the following purpose, viz.
ift, That as the wearing cockades was only a
signal of the nation's wish to have the regulation
of i6B4aboliftied, and thepoeplere established in
their rights, there did not now remain any rea
son for wearing them, as ther had received two
fpecific aflurances, one of the 29th of November,
and another of the 1 jth instant, in the name of a
powerful Monarch, stating, that they ihould be
protected in those rights. They therefore invi
ted all the citizens to leave off wearing cockades.
2d, That refpedting the point which related to
the Burgess companies and Patriot guards ; it was
evident, that being re-ellablifhed in their rights
of 1684, their existence was secured; atthe fame
time they refpetftfully assured the Serene Princes,
that they ihould be carefully employed to main
tain peace and tranquillity.
3d. They recommended tothe citizens to con
tinue treating those troops (the Pruflians) with
all the care they merit, as friends and prote<flors.
The affairs of Liege is likely to produce some
troubles, though the Pruflians have quiet poflef
fion of it with 9000 chosen men ; but the Impe
rial chamber of Wetzlear, on the 4th instant gave
notice, that they will not listen to any terms of
accomodation, and insist upon the Prince being
re-established dire«fily in all the powers he for
merly enjoyed.
The Island of Jersey takes the lead in the pre
sent patriotic reformation : and as soon as the
above resolutions were carried, a communication
thereof, and an invitation, was immediately trans
mitted to Guernsey, where the opposition was
much stronger and more numerous, but where,
however, the rights of Briti/h fubjerts at length
prevailed.
A model of the Hebe frigate has been exhibited
before the firft Lord of the Admiralty ; it is on a
scale of sixty feet to an inch ; the ribs are of po
lished steel, and the inafts, decks, k.c. of gold ;
the guns all steel, their carriages gold ; the fails
of silver, with the blocks, and every rope as fine
as a hair of the fame. This beautiful epitome,
of the firft frigate in our service, was executed
under the direction of Mr. Knight, purser of the
Hebe.
The Spaniards at Malaga are building three
ships of the line, one of 70, one of 50, and the
third of 40 guns, heavy metal.
Extratl of a letter from Monteliniar, Dtcember 2
" On Saturday last a confederate camp, of be
tween 30 and 40 communities,from Vivarez and
Dauphine, was formed on the plain of Auriol, to
the number of 12,000 men all armed, with pro
visions on their mules for two days. These brave
citizens took with great folemnky the following
oatli :
" Wf French citizens on both fides of the
Rhone, from Valence as far as Pouain.all in bro
therly union, rejecting all forts of diftindtion,
swear on our honor and arms, consecrated to the
defence of the State, that our will, ftrength,and
fortitude, are devoted to our country, to the sup
port of the laws ena<fted by the National Aflem
bly, and to the King, who so greatly deserves,
and has so just a claim to our love. We swear
mutually to al&fb each other in the performance
of so sacred a duty, and to employ our army this
very moment, if necelTary, for the service of our
illuflrious brethren of the municipality of Paris.
We ihall look upon as criminal towards the nati
on, all those who ihall dare to insult, either by
word 9 or writings, the decrees of the august Re
presentatives of the nation, and those who Ihall
RUSTICUS.
376
LONDON, Dec. 31.
not pay all the refpecft wliich is due to the mo ft
just, and most popular, and the moil beloved of
Monarchs.
" Nine commissioners have been named for the
correspondence of this patriotic confederacy, who
are to meet at Voute, a finalltown in the Vivare?.,
on the 24th instant, where the regiments will
fend some detachments/'
Accounts from Vienna fays, that Prince Mau
rojeni, Hofpodar of Wallachia, was not only in
the interest of the Emperor, but that it was he
himfelf who invited the Auftrians into his coun
try, he having no other way of securing both his
life and his treasures, of both which he was like
ly to be deprived by the Porte. This accounts
for the abundance of provisions which the Prince
de Cobourg found every where on his way, after
he entered Wallachia, but particularly at Bu
charest, its capital.
To convince the people that in pafling from
the Turkish to the Austrian dominions, the change
was for the better, the Prince de Cobourg pro
hibited all plunder under pain of death ; and
gave the ftricfleft orders to his troops to pay ready
money for every thing with which the inhabi
tants (hould furnifh them.
The Prince, to avail himfelf of the consterna
tion which the taking of Bucharest had occasion
ed among the Turks, staid only one day in
city, and marched out the next with a confidcr
able body of troops, to penetrate farther into the
country, and drive the few remaining Turkith
troops across the Danube.
NEW-YORK, MARCH 3.
The following is a copy of the roll of Counsellors,
and Attomies sworn in the Supreme Court of
the United States.
COUNSELLORS.
Elias Boudinot, Thomas Hartley, jth Feb.
1790. Egbert Benfon, John Lawrance, Theo
dore Sedgwick, William Smith (S. C.) $lorgan
Lewis, James Ja<ckfon, Fiftier Ames, George
Thatcher, Richard Varick, Robert Morris, Bth
Feb. 1790. Samuel Jones, Abrmham Ogden,
Elifha Boudinot, William Paterfon, Ezekiel
Gilbert, Corn. J. Bogert, Feb. 9. 1790.
ATTQRNIES. .
William Houston, Edward Livingfton, Jacob
Morton, Barth. de Haert, John Keefe, Peter
Mafterton, William Wilcocks, Feb. 10, 1790.
The court then adjourned to the next term,
viz. the firft day of August next.
On the 15th ult. Arthur Lee, Esq. Barrister
and Dotftor of Laws, was, by a special order, of
the Supreme Court of the United States, admitt
ed a Counsellor in the said Court.
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for Sate, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No,. 4, Bur ling-Slip,
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS.
Anions which arc the following Articles:
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. j| LongCioths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,|| Caflas,
Chintzes, || Seersuckers,
Ginghams, |j Boglapores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for cafli.
And a few pair large handsome Cotton COUN
TERPANES, much warmer than Blankets.
To be L E T,
And pofleflion given the tft of April, for one or more years, (two
miTes and half from this city, on the Greenwich road,)
'T'HAT New TWO STORY HOUSE—four
Rooms on a flpOr ; with fix fire places; a new Barn, and
Well of excellent Water ; a young Orchard of Fruit Trees, with
acres of Land, the molt part Meadow. For particulars enquire
at No. 7, Maiden-Lane. Neic-York, February 20.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
f Price Six Shillings, iotind and lettered}
,And to be fold, by appointment of the Author, by Messrs. UtiUr
and Roger], No. by A. M'Lean, N0.41, (F«#kli»'l
Head) Hanover Square, and by the Editor hereof, No. M«"
den-Lane,
GEOGRAPHY MADE EASY :
BEING AN ABRIDGEMENT <5 F THE
AMERICAN GEOGRAPHY.
CON tAIMING,
ASTRONOMICAL Geography : Discovery and General De
scription of America : General View of the United States:
Particular Accounts of the Thirteen United States, in regard to
their Boundaries, Extent, Rivers, Lakes, Mountains, Produo
tions> Population, Chara&ers, Government:* Trade, Mattufao
tures, Curiosities, History, See.
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
A Geographical Account of the European settlements in Ame
rica ; and of Europe, Ada, and Africa.
Illustrated with eight neat MAPS and CUTS.
Calculated peculiarly for the use of Schools in the United States.
BY JEDIDIAH MORSE, A. M.
Minister of the Congregation in Charleftown, near Boflon.
Second Editon. Abridged by the Author.
A work which has long been wanted, to accommodate Schools; and
for the use of children in families. Geography now claims a very ge
neral attention—and that of our country in a particular manner \for
in proportion as this is tlnderflood it tuill inspire the rising generation
with elevated ideas of thtir own character, when contemplating the mag
nificent theatre on which they are to ast the parts ajfigned them : Hence
the propriety of the obfervation —
Let all foreign climes alone,
Till you understand your own.
(£3T Wanted by the Editor of this paper, a House that wt/l ac
commodate a large family., and the printing bufnefs—from tkcfrjl of
May next.