[No. XCVIIt]
THE TABLET.
No. XCVIII.
" TAKE AWAY THRONES CROWNS FROM AMONG
" »JEN, AND THERE WiLL so<}N BEAN KND OF ALL DOMIN
" lON and JUSTICE."
NOTHJNGadmitsof clearer demonstration than
that man is naturally inclined to refill go
vernment. The terms made use of, in the defi
nition of civil duties, denote our inherent aversi
on to obedience. It will be asked how this can
be reconciled with the universal practice of man
kind, in voluntarily yielding to institutions for
the express purpose of being governed ? And,
though in many countries the eftabliilied subor
dination is a matter of force, yet if the people
•were left to the unrestrained ejoyment of their
natural liberty they would not long remain so.
Some act or other would indicate a general con
sent to surrender part of their personal rights.
There is-, indeed, no sentiment of the human
mind that so well deserves to be called original or
instinctive, as that propenfiry men discover to
bind themselves by rules and associations. One
should not pass over this apparent contradiction
without endeavouring tofind afolution.
The actions ofno individual are perfectly con
sistent. Every person has passions that are more
or less at variance, and different affections, by
turns, preponderate. The social dispositions o
perate so far as to induce men to associate with
each other, for thepurpofe of mutual protection.
It requires a less conqueil over the private passi
ons to enter into aflbciations, than it does to ob
serve them. The fame man may chearfully give
his assent to some common regulations for the
public welfare ; who, in the general tenor of his
conduct is actuated by such personal and felfilh
motives as are repugnant to the very compact he
has fubferibed. His fenie of duty is not fufficient
to secure his observance, when it comes in com
petition with any of the vigorous passions of his
nature. The most that can be expected from his
reasoning on -he subject, or from his feelings of
obligation, is that he should afford his aid in fup
prefling or punishing the disobedience of others.
For, bad as a man may be himfelf, he is willing
the wickedness of other people lhould be restrain
ed. He is indeed sensible that he has most to fear
from perfotis most like hinjfell, and will sooner
take part with the law than with the violator.
This however may not be the cafe, when he is in
such a lituaiion, that his own exemption or escape
depends on a combination with other tranfgref
fors-. A man may be dilatory and even knavish
in his manner of discharging his own engage
ments, and yet he will with alacrity assist the ci
vil officer in compelling others to their duty. An
indolent, faithlefs hireling will complain of o
thers of a like (lamp and take delight in their pu
nishment. In fine, man is felfifh only for hiin
felf. By entering into society he does not neces
sarily iofe his native love of liberty, but he in
some measure becomesthe enemy of that of other
people ? Ho is habitually exercised with a desire
to re-aflume the rights he has himfelf relinquished,
and to diminish those which other people have
retained. When he is called upon to obey the
laws, his aversion to personal restraint must be o
vercome by causes more powerful than induced
his consent to an original compact. His attenti
on, in the act ot instituting government, is prin
cipally employed in contemplating the advanta
ges he will derive in havingother people laid un
der control. While he is making the association,
the ardor of private passions may be so f;ir abford
cd by the occasion as to produce an acquiescence
to legal institutions. But he is soon impelled by
different feelings, and he must have some ftrong
cr motive for obeying the laws, than what will
result from the consideration that he has pvomif
ed obedience.
In considering the fubjeft hitherto, I have em
braced the ftrppofition that all men have volunta
rily entered into the form of government, under
which tliey exist:. I have meant to illustrate, that
xiotwititanding there was a perfed: acquiescence
in the original compart, men are naturally and
ftre.igly impelled to elude or violate it. But I
have taken a position that futfts, in very few in
iiances, will authorize. Where is the country
that the people are universally in favor of their
political conflitution ? The idea of original com
part, as a matter ot fart, is altogether delulive.
It is a just, theoretic principle and only means,
that men would, if left to themselves, adopt fomc
regulations relativeto protertion and allegiance,
l ew people however were ever blefled with an
opportunity for the put pose ; for it has generally
(&azo r (
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 9. MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK.
SATURDAY, MARCH, 20, 1790,
happened that government has been framed un
der circumstances of compulsion or artifice. In
those cases, where the people are said to have
combined freely into a state of government, there
may ftil) be a powerful minority, who do not feel
perfonably rei'ponfible, in point of conscience, to
observe those laws, or defend that community, to
which in sentiment they are opposed. This
brings me to the idea inculcated in my motto.
There must be some adventitious properties infu
fed into the government to give it energy andfpi
rit, or the felfifh, turbulent passions of men can
never be #ontrouled. This has occasioned that
artificial splendor and dignity that are to be
found in the courts of so many [nations. Some
admiration and refpedt must be excited towards
public officers, by their holding a real orfuppo
fed superiority over the mass of the people. The
Sanctions and penalties of law are likewise requi
site to aid in reltraining individuals from tram
pling upon and demolishing the government.
It is confeffed that, in some situations, a small
degree of parade and solemnity, co-operating
with other causes, may be fufficient to secure obe
dience to the laws. In an early state of society,
when the desires of men are few and easily fatis
fied, the temptations to trespass upon good order
and justice are neither pressing nor numerous.
Avarice and ambition encreafe with population ;
and in a large opulent community the daz;ling
appendages and pompous formalities of courts are
introduced to form a balance to the encreafing
ardor of the felfifh passions, and to check that a£
cendency which afpiringindividuals would other
wise gain over the public peace and authority.
In a wife, enlightened community, where in
formation is generally spread among the inhabi
tants, the splendor and pageantry ofofficedonot
excite any high degree of awe or respect. The
people of the United States|may probably be induc
ed to regard and obey the laws without rifquingthe
experiment of expensive courts and titled mon
arclis. There is a reverence paid, by a sensible
nation, to wisdom and virtue, that is equivalent
in point of maintaining subordination, to those
magnificent establishments, which are required
in governing an ignorant, servile people. It can
not be determined how far it will be requisite
for the United States to aflume a splendor in its
public institutions. In proportion as we become
populous, and wealthy, mull the tone of govern
ment be strengthened, unless the people should
progress in knowledge and virtue by a diffufive,
judicious plan of education. An education not
merely of science but of morals. If good princi
ples are inculcated, and good habits formed by
education, we may perhaps avoid the occasion of
expensive, splendid arrangements, in order to give
liability and procure subordination to the govern
ment. This is a matter that will in some degree
regulate itfelf. While the ciiizens are orderly
andrefpectful under a plain stile of government,
why need we try the alternative of creating more
luitre and expencein our institutions ? Butfhould
the people (hew a refractory, seditious temper,
and make efforts to breakover the barriers of law
and justice, regardless of the intrinsic excellence
of our constitution, the government will be com
pelled to have recourse to those artificial methods
of gaining refpecft and obedience, which other
nations find indifpenfible. Should this happen
it will be confonanttothe spirit, if not ftrictlyto
the letter of my motto—take away thrones and
crowns from among men and there will soon be an end
of all dominion and justice.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, FEB. 26, 1790.
IN Committee of the whole house. The proportion for allum
ing the State debts-and the amendments proposed thereto by
Mr. White, being under confederation.
(continued.)
MR. STONE. It is laid that immediate relief is to be afford
ed the State creditors ; but upon the Secretary's idea, not one far
thing is to be paid under two years : In the mean time there will
be a total suspension of all payments to the State creditois, this will
operate very unjuflly and oppreflively : He instanced particularly
in the State of Maryland. In that State there is upwardsof 2000001.
solid fubftant'al property inState paper belonging to the citizens.
This property by virtue of the judicious arrangements of that State,
is placed in a very eligible situation. Now what have the proprie
tors done that they fliould be in a manner stripped of it.
He reprobated the injustice of taxing those States who are out
of debt, to pay debts contra&cd for purposes in which perhaps
they are not at all interefled. He adverted to the condutt of S.
Carolina, in not making provision for their State debt, on the pre
emption that Congress would aflumeand fund it, without any
previous intimation of any design of this nature on the part of
Congress. He was sorry, he said, to mention this circumftancc,
but much more sorry that it fliould ever have taken place.
He concluded by faying that in all events he should advise his
conftitucnts to proceed in paying excise and impost, and making
provision for their debfj and if Congress plcafr d they might give
£>UU$.
PRICE THREL DOLLARS PR. ANN
them credit, if not, he hoped they would obtain credit in ij. ,-ci
Mr. Ames said that a jealousy was entertained of undue su'vai
tage being procured to particular Slates. In order to remove the
impediments which the supposed unworthy influence of flare in
terests on his mind might plate in his way, he was obliged as
well as disposed to reft his argument upon general principles. For
these, like truth, upon which they are founded-, have an unchange
able and uncontroulable authority.
Let the firft enquiry be as to the justice of the measure. In 1773
the citizens of America, with a folcmn appeal to Heaven, made a
common cause ot their violated liberty. They agreed as brethren
to expose property and life in its defence, if partial dangers
and loflcs were to have fallen Upon the fufferers, probably it would
- have discouraged many who were mod immediately exposed and
yet difplaycd the rrtoft heroic fortitude.
Nor would those who were remote from the danger, and indeed
from the quarrel, have become parties on any other principle
than that it was the cause of all America. For instance, South-Ca
rolina, as happy as peace and wealth could make her, had little
cause of complaint against Britain. He did not efpoufc the cause
of South-Carolina merely, but of America. Thai State gave an
illustrious example of patriotism. But if her citizens when they
forefaw the evils of war, had forefien that more than five millions
of debt would be created against her, that the armies would live
as it were, on free quarters in her territory, and that a great part
of the personal property would be destroyed 6r carried away*
would they have drawn the sword if they had believed that the be
nefit would be common, but the burden partial? No, Sir, the
spirit of the people and the resolves of Congress spoke a different
language. Let him who has not forgotten the spirit of 1775 deny
that this is in conformity to its di&ates.
But were the state debts contra&ed for the war Pit appears by
the books in the public offices that they were. Will iny one fay
that the whole expcnce of defending our common liberty ought
not to be a common charge ? Part of this charge was contracted by
Maflachufetts, before Congress a (Turned the exercise of its powi
ers. The fir ft ammunitibn that repulsed the enemy at Lexington*
and made such havoc at Bunkers-Hill, was purchased by that°ftate
and appears in the form of their state debt. The war was chiefly
a common charge while paper money would defray it. lsut in
1780, when it became of little value, Congress called upon thp
states. The states which complied with the demand contracted
debts, and that in proportion to their zeal. A state which totally
negle6tcd a requisition, or complied partially, would of crurlp
proportionally cfcape a debt : Is this justice ? But the states were
also exhauftcd, and to aid their feeble authority and (lender re
sources, they called upon the towns, and these called upon claf
fci, and thele upon individuals. Why not as properly fay tha£
this debt is due from towns, classes or even individuals, as from
states ?
Nothing can more clearly evince the injustice of calling thcfe
state debts than this circumstance. Congress appointed pcrions to
liquidate and fettle public accounts, and some of the states d.id die
like. If a date took early measures to receive and allow claims
of couife many were exhibited and allowed. But where it was
convenient to apply to the offices of the United States, and espe
cially in cife the Hate had not opened like tile claims
chiefly appeared against the United States. Accordingly, the
commissioner from Congress allowed about 280,000 dollars i 9
MalTachufetts, and near <30,000 in New-York, merely because
the former (late had incorporated them with her debt, and in the
latter they were received by the officers of the United States. Con
grefsdelayed fending a comm ffioner to South-Carolina till 1784,
Had he been sent in 1782 it is probable, the debt of that Hate would
have been of less magnitude. Are circumflanccs so merely ad
ventitious and casual to constitute a plea for the union to disown
the debts? Formerly the states had the funds, and the creditors
preferied their notes ; they agreed to this constitution which ha?
given the funds to the United States, shall not the debts follow thq
funds ? Shall we fiift disable the states from paying and then re
fufe payment ourftlves ? Is it just that officers who fought fide by
fide should have a different recompence?
Let us examine this meafuie on the ground of policy. How
would it fluke the people of England to divide their debt upon
several counties, and to ellablifh independent revenue fyfteius for
Us security ! Habit has made an idea equally dangerous and strange
ly familiarin our own country. It is unfriendly to the national
and State governments, to make it absolutely inevitable for them
to clash and interfere.—Let us preserve the powers of both unim
paired : to combine our citieens in common views, to make the
revenue laws uniform, to extend permanent protection to trade
and manufactures, torelieve our hUsbandry from dry taxes,areob
jefts worthy of the government. It is natural too to suppose that
the collection may be made less eXpensive, as it would make a
double set of revenue officers unneceflary •, it will relieve us from
the confufion of so many forts of paper, and by extending the
market, and making the funds more certain, will encreafe the use
of the State paper as money.
The southern States are supposed to poflefs a fmsll {hare only of
the present debt—But as Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina
and South-Carolina, own near 13 millions of the State debts
(more than half their amount) the aflumption will produce a more
equal distribution of benefits and burdens. Besides, the State du*
ties operate to the injury of the revenue—an articlethat beais a low
duty of import, is dutied high by the State, and there is danger
that the temptation to fraud will impair both revenues-for tho
the impost alone would not fitrnifh such temptation, vet the State
duty being super-added, the collection becomes insecure.
But State duties are not confined merely to their own citizens.
The trade from State to State has been grievously burdened by
their operation—the constitution was intended to free our do
meflicintercourfe from all reflraint. Further, excise duties fall upon
the consumer—one State will be made tributaiy td another.—
MafTachufetts has colleCled part of the duties from the citizens of
Ncw-Hampfhire—the operation of the impost is well
known—when it is said, therefore, let each Stale pay its own debt,
we ought to expcCl that this will not take place,ifthe debts should
not be assumed—and it may well be doubted whether in that cafc
State duties would not prove a more grievous burden upon trade,
and prodnce greater inequality and injustice than has ever been
urged against the aflumption.
These arguments independently considered will probably be
allowed to prove the just ice and found policy of the affumpiion.
But in order to preserve their full foice it is necessary to obviate
some objections.
The aflumption it is affirmed, tends to the consolidation of the
States, and to the destruCtion of the State governments. The en
tire powers of peace, war and treaty, are given to Congrefs—■>{
consequence the power of raising supplies, and when they njayfail
of contracting debts to carry on war, belong to Congress. The
entire debt was created by the war—it seems to be in drift con-
to the spirit as well as letter of the constitution to aflume
it j for it cannot be improper to exercise that pewer in this in
stance, which in all like cases is exclusively veiled in Congress.—-
The states arc restriCted from raising troops and carrying on war ;
:} v a r -Thcpower'orcontraaingiindproyldinsfor debts incurred by
ms t0 c3n > nc >dcnt to it—it would not be fafe to concedc
Ort WCr °f' ev y' n S war belsngs to Conerefs, and yet to as-
I I n ? P°^ cr of Providing tor it ivneccifary for their security
veiled in the States. If this, however is not a(r.rted, the
objection will be untenable—For if it is now necelftry to the
n ■?'" alw »ys he neceflary. AH future war debts will be
contratied by Congrcfs— Ui« obiefMon therefore supposes, either
at t eState debts will be extinguiftud, in which cafe there is
■II u "i mporl 'y security against a perpetual danger, or that they
■win be kept perpetually in being to secure the States against it.
ihe objection plainly leads to this conclusion— If it is impro
per and unfafe for Congress to exercise this power, then the con
ltitution is wrong, and it ought to have been veiled in the States.
he power of providing forwarn«ce(Tjrily draws after it the right
of declaring it, and the whole power of the fwurd, The people
"1 this country will know that this power vested in more than one
borty might soon be turned against themselves. There would be
neither conihtution nor union in that cafe. But we are to admin,
liter the government according to the frame of it. The real check
against the abuse and the security for the beingof both national and
State governments is the knowledge of the people. The assump
tion will not render the conftituuon obfeure, nor strengthen the
"gnt ot this government to raise armies which is already given,
nor will it make the State governments obnoxious, but rather the
reverse, as it will throw upon the United States the odium of le
vying taxes Besides, as soon as the accounts (hall be fettled, this
danger will occur. The objection applies equally against the li
quiaation of the accounts.
Let us however take the argument (imply as it is Hated, it proves
too much. For if so much power follows the allumpuon as the
objeiiior. implies, it is time to aIV is it fafe to forbear a Burning ?
lithe power is so dangerous, it will be so when exefcifed by the
otates. I F the afluming tends to consolidation, is the reverse, tend
ing to disunion, a lcCs weighty objection ? If lam answered
mat the noo-aUumption will not necelTarily tend to disunion, I
reply, neither does the alTumption neceffaiily tend to consolida
tion. An unrcafonable clalh ng of jurifdiftions cannot be friend
ly to the present irame of our republics.
nr Wethe acc °unts are in a train of being fettled.
We are advised to wait that event. But in the mean time what
■ s to become of the state creditors ; most of the dates claim balan
ces, will they provide for their creditors, while they expea to
receive those balances ? Will their citizens submit to taxes cheer
fully, while this expeaationlaftt? The value of the debt? would
be f,actuating. It this fettl.inent (hould belong delayed, their
value would fink to a mere trifle, suppose that by assuming we
bring the states, or some of them, into debt to the union, by not
attuming the union is certainly ia debt to the states. Is it more
wire or lull to be debtors than creditors ? But if the states are to
have credit for what they have done and paid, and to be charged !
with what they have received from the United States, most of the I
ltates will be creditors, and as the war was a common charge,and
ought to have been entirely supported by the union, the debts
of the states are debts which they ought never to have incurred,
*na therefore, the alfumption restores things to their just tounda-
•l* 'i- 1 c the ft ? te ' to P*y ,heir ? wn debts; are they to do
it by direst taxes ? It is well known that in ellimating the produfl
of taxation, as much depends on the mode of imposing and col
lecting as on the wealth of the persons taKed. Perhaps direst as.
fcflments are, of all taxes the moll unproductive and uncertain
They are besides arbitrary and burdensome : Will any Tingle fund
especially such at I havejuil mentioned be fufficient ? Or if it
lhould, Wquld it not banish the hufbandm.n from feme of the
' .s ' '"dependence is a common acquisition, and ought to be
enjoyed upon equal terms. But to some it will prove ruinous,
while others living in another state, and divided by an imaginary
line will ebjoy their lands almost tax frte.
Or (hall the ftatcs fund the debt on excifea ? Have the states a
right to excise imported articles ? Without deciding that qucftion,
It is not supposed that they have the power of regulating the im
portation of goods. The checks upon the dealers in dutied goods
of coofequfnee will be imperfe£t. Nether have they a right to
prevent the transit of goods through a (late. The extent of frontier
is another impediment to state txciks. Massachusetts has a fron
tier line (o watch of many hundred miles, and it wjll not be pos
sible to prevent the introduction of goods charged with left duties,
or not dutied at ast, from the neighboring States.—lf* State ex
cise law should militate against the law of the union, both cannot
operate—perhaps neither. The right of the States to collect ex
cites, if such right exists, is deduced from the silence of the con
"i tut ion- The light of Congress is exprelTcd in pofttive terms.-
if then the right of laying excises by the States either does not
extlr, or exists several limitations and difadvatuazes then
the provision which they cau make for their debt becomes pro
portionally inadequate and precarious. The burden if equally
borne, and under the wisest and most efficacious fvftem of reve
nue, is supposed to be heavy enough. How then lhall it be en
dured, if borne unequally and under iuch inconveniences ?
If it is urged that the United States cannot piovide for the State
debts, I answer the States are dill less able.
But with debts you take funds—and even on pecuniary calcu
lation the public will gain.—Not afluming is paying twice over.
For the people of a State will be unequally burdeoed to pay their
debt, and (Hen as citizcns of the United States will be liable to be
taxed to make retribution.
Jiut how is this retribution to be made ? Taxes mull be uni
form—you cannot therefore make a requisition upon the debtor
States—-you cannot sue for the debt in the federal court—for the
money is[due to the creditor States, aud not to the United States •
will you wage war to enforce payment ? The balances must be
paid by the United States—if Virginia is found to be a creditor
tne union mud pay it by taxing the citizens of all the States. The
arguments urged against the allumption apply with equal force to
the non-aflumption.
The rame answer will be equally prooer to be given to those
who object—that it will operate unjustly again!! the States which
have advanced beyond their proportion, and now will have to
bear a part of the debt of the other States, some of whom are debt
ors.
The States are cither creditors or debtors—lf creditors, theaf
fcmption is a prompt piyment of that amount of their claims—
It debtors, thechargc of inequality is absurd even interms.—The
debt is to be paid or it is not— if not, the debate is imp.opcr ; it
it is to be pan!, tlien^ equally or unequally. If the latter, abandon
the plea of mllice—if the former, then apportion it ; if the debt
was afhia.,y divided among the States according to their quotas,
• JlV.k ? P T" wcu '^. be unexceptionable—because it is manif. lt
that the burden could be more conveniently borne by the people
under one fyftem~lf it is unequally divided, why should the
peop.e be crulhed by the inequality of the burden ?
Congress have already agreed to pay the balances which may be
found flue to the States. This is virtually an assumption—why
should we forbear to do that in the firft instance which we are ul
tim3tely bound to do ?
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17,
Reports from the Secretary at War, and the Secretary of the
Ireafury were read, on sundry petitions.
liie ratification of tlieStateof Pennsylvania of the q, 4 'r 6 i 8
Uc'conft^tutfo^was' JmCndmCnt3 Pr ° P ° fed b > <°
In Committee of the whole on the report of the fe!eft commit
tee, to whom was referred the memorialsof the people ca'lcd Oua
kTO.on tbefubjeft of the Slave T.ade. P y
The question of order was put, when it was determined that
Mr. fucker'sjaft amendment was not in order.
The report was then taken up by paragraphs. The firft propo
ntion being read Mr. White moved that it be itruck out. He did
th:s he laid, because he was entering into a confederation at
this time of the powers of Congress, he thought it would be time
enough tor this when the powers are called in question. He then
read thc next, which he laid was entirely unnpcellary as it con
tains nothing more than what is contained in express terms in the
constitution.
He pjfTed on to the 3d, which he said was equally unnecessary;
and so the 4th, which was provided for b/ the constitution. He
said that he ihould agree to the $th, and 6th, with certain modifi
cations. Agreeableto this idea he offered those two in a different
torn.. Hcd.fagreed to the 7th proposition, as unaeceffary and
>mpr»per. He concluded by obfcrving, that his wilh was to
promote the happiuefs of all mankind—and among the reft those
who are the objeas of prelcnt confrderation—but this he withed
to do in conformity to the principles of jutlice and with a due re
gard to the peace and happiness of others ; he would contribute all
in tns power to their comfort and well being while in a (late of
llavery ; but he was fully of opinion that Congress has no right to
interfere in the bufmefs, any further than he proposed by the two
proportions as modified. He did not however anticipate the dif
ficulties from a total prohibition which some gentlemen seem to
apprehend — and if Congress had it in their power tointerdift this
bulinds at the prcfent moment, he did not think the essential in
terests of the Southern States would fuffer. Twenty years ago, he
luppofcd the idea he now fuggefled, would have caused universal
alarm. Virginia however about twelve years since, prohibited the
importation of negroes from Africa, and the confcquences appre
hended never were realized ; on the contrary the agriculture ot
that State was never in a more flourifhing situation.
Mr. Hartley.—l have the honor to be one of the committee
on the memorials, and w.ll with the leave of this committee men.
tion some particulars which took place in the courfeof the investi
gation of the business ; he premised that he was sorry that the
question of right had been brought forward yesterday—and was
not a little surprised to hcarthecaufe of slavery advocated in that
Houfc, and language held towards the petitioners, which his ex
perience he said, had never (hown to be parliamentary he read
tome memorandums taken in committee, and had particular refe
rence to a law pa(Ted in Grenada which he applauded for its hu
manity, and truly benevolent spirit.
He reprobated the illiberal treatment which the memorialists
had received, and asserted that they were friends to the constitu
tion, and that on the prelent occasion they came forward from the
roost laudable motives, from a wilh to promote the happiness of
mankind, that their conduit so lar from meriting cenfur., de
»» D would reteive the applause of the civilized world
Mr Wh rT ,n l COn S dmblc fpccch advo "tedthe motion of
Mr. W hue, he enlarged 011 the pernicious confequenccs that may
be exited to flow from the interference of Congress ; he pointed
out the cffc&s which had resulted from the intcrpofition of the
Quakers, by which the profpefts of the Southern States in slaves
had been rendered very precarious—and if Congress should adopt
, ,^ U "11 the confcquences will be pernicious in the
highest decree. Ihe negro property will be annihilated The
emancipation of slaves will be effefled ... T.me, it ought to be a
gradual bufincfj—but he hoped that Congress would not, to grati
fy people who never bad been fr.endly so the independent of
ern'su", PrCC,p " ate thc buflncfs t0 the S r «t injury of the South-
r„W* v, d,nto 3 V ,"y " ,CnfnT confidcration of the
fabjeft he gave an account of the humane treatment which the
nave, of the Southern States received, their habitations, fam.l.cs
children, prmlcge S ,&c. He then (hewed that their emancipation
wqol4 tend to make them wretched in the highest degree—he an
W 'L f , r " dom on the P ast and P r ®fent conduct of
L L C ""7 ed that lhe y wcre the friends of freedom
he fa,d that during the late war, they were for bringing this coun
l y .l!"r r 3 "jT y° ke > th£ y descended to the charafttrs of spies
r7 eV A PP L. enem V Wlth provif.ons, 'hey were guides and
conduaots to their armies—and whenever the American armv
came into toeir neighborhood they formed themselves in an en/
my s country. Mr. Burke was proceeding in this drain when he
WM interrupted by its boing said he was not in order ; a Zrm a'
terc«tion ensued, and fn the midftof it, a motion was made that
f"" 1 fife ; , thls mol ! on was negatived, and Mr
Burke added a few more observations oa the injustice of the mea
interference, as UrefpeOed the property of the Southern
■ Mr. Smith (S. C.) followed Mr. Burke in a speech or essay, in
ittut" dect o „ Of tW ° h ° U " length -' he CO ~
THURSDAY, MARCH xB.
Sundry memorials and petitions were read and referred—The
report cf the committee on the memorials rcfpc&injr the slave
trade b.ing the order of the day, 6
fubfeftfnl 0 , n r ftCrpr<:min " g - hat a ">' fur,her difcuflion of the
futyeft in the line it was now in, would be a useless expence of
time—moved that the committee of the whole (hnuld be difcharz
. . ?m any further attention to the report—and that the memo
rials be again referred to a feleft committee—he offered a variety
bv M °mJ whlcl ' he landed this nfotion. This was seconded
r who at the fame time entered into a lengthy dis
cussion of the fubjeft Mr. Baldwin was followed by many other
g<a»|einen which gave the bufinels a totally different
from .what appeared to be the objeS of the motion
The question being taken, Mr. Benton's motion was loft._the
" Wri " ' n -° 3 'i om T tt « of the wholr . 'on the report—
wer^a"
theVon"^;:^': 1 " rofc w,tt,out finifliin * ,he
FRIDAY, MARCH 19.
Hon. Hugh W.Jliamfon, member from the State of North
Carol,na appeared, was qualified, and took hi. feat this day
A mctfage: was received from the Senate, w.th two bills which
they havepaffed with amendments, viz. An ast to provide for
he re million or mitigation offines, forfeituresand penalties in
tain cafes-and an ,ft to establish a uniform rule ofnatu LTt.oT
-KSPSSJSS, I—'1—' dcp ~' - »"""
.if.™:! tt" ™
Mr. Sherman moved that a committee of five members be an
pointed, to enquire into the receipts and expenditures of t> M
monies during the adminittration of Robert Moths Efrf 1
fuperintendant of finance— and to report to the House a
the accounts refpcft.ng the fame.-This motion after
was agreed to_and Mr. Sherman, Mr. Madison Mr T,
Mr Sedgwick, and Mr. Smith (S. C.) appointed' Lawran «.
In committee of the whole, the rennrtnf >»,.
slave trade under consideration. The fourth Ol \
a , dut y of on slaves imported'fcC w^
ed that übe struck out, which motion «fter ™ch dSI, ™° V "
adopted. Several modifications of the sis.l, * uc i\ del "<e was
fered but the following in offer" ° f "
agreed to> vl7 . Congress have authority to restrain ,h • •
the United States who are concerned in th- Afr ? T" f
Applying Foreigners with slaves; and to providefoMhei h '
treatmc nt , wh,:e on their passages to the United Stlte,
•JncxT"""" lh " rofe ' and lhe H ° uf = turned till Mon-
390
The ADDRESS of tiie INTENDANT and Wat?
Carolina" ** * CHARLEST °N, S
To GEORGE WASHINGTON, Pr ; f,d e „t 0 f th .
United States.
T HOUGH among the latest, yet not among the
X eat zealous of the citizens of America, we
take the liberty to intrude for a moment 011 your
tune, which is so precious to the people over
whom you preside, to offer our congratulations on
your unanimous appointment to the molt Honora
ble station amongit men, the firft magii'uacy of
the freell people on the earth.
United with our Eastern and Northern brethern
in our ardent attachment to the principles of a
free government, equally remote from tyranny
and anarchy, we rejoice with them, that you
have been prevailed upon by the voice of your
country to relinquilh your private walks of do
mellic life, for the toils of an untried government
where your wisdom, moderation, and firmnefs
would be requisite to the discharge ofits various
and intricate duties. With grateful hearts, vv e
add this to the catalogue of eminent facrifices and
i ervices, by which you have so compleatly endear
eu yourfelf to the people of America.
As magistrates of a commercial city deeply i n .
terefted in the measures of the fuederal govern
ment, we /eel peculiar pleasure in finding it in
troduced into action under theaufpices ofan ad
ministration every way qualified to corred those
errors,or supply those defetfts, which are alledeed
by its enemies,or apprehended by its friends: And
as in its firft operations, it will receive from you
a tone correspondent to the spirit in which it was
framed, we felicitate ourselves in the happy 0 -
mens of a firm government adting by wholfome
laws through tliemedium ofamild and equal ad
miniil ration.
Poifelling the fulleft confidence that our distance
from the feat of government will not deprive us of
any of its eflential benefits, we beg leave to tender
you ouraflurancesofachearful fubmiflionto and
adhve support of the constitution, and the laws
which may be framed ill conformity thereto by
the wisdom of Congress.
We cherish the confidence from whence spring
these afl'urances, because we remember that we
were not neglected or deserted during the late
glorious struggle for independency, but werefub
itantially aided by the policy of your counsels, the
wisdom of your appointments, and the vigor of
the exertions of our northern friends who fhar
eel and leflened our feverefl coils.
It is our earnest prayer to the Almighty ruler
ot the umverfe, that he will take you into his ho
ly keeping, and fufFer no incident to arise which
may disturb the felicity of your private life ; and
that he will make your public administration ho
norable to yourfelf, and happy to the people who
have so unanimously confided themselves to your
c r are V „ THOMAS JONES,
Intindaut of the city oj Charleflon, by desire of, and
r. r- 'i * n f or the whole.
City-Council, Charttpn. (.S.C.) 18M Feb. 1790.
To the Intendant and W ardent oftbTCity of Charles,
ton, South-Carolina.
Gentlemen,
T RECEIVE your congratulations, on my unan
imous appointment to the firft magistracy of
a free people, with that grateful sensibility which
is due to the occasion, and which your flattering
expressions of regard could not fail to awaken
ertuaded that the candor of my countrymen will
<.0 juflice to the rectitude of my intentions, lam
iappy under the afllirance, that their adlivefup
poii of the constitution, and disposition to main
tain the dignity of our free and equal govern
ment will ensure facility and fuccels to the ad
ministration of its laws, and, if the result of my
anxious endeavors, in some measure, to juftify
the two partial fentinients of my fellow-citizens,
mould, 111 any degree, approach to the wiih which
ent^ rtail V f or l^e ' r ' la ppinefs, I /hall not regret
the domestic enjoyment and personal repose,
which may have been yielded to this superior
consideration.
As magiftratesof a commercial city, deeply in
terelted in the measures of the federal govern
ment, yon mull have beheld,with fatisfa<flion, the
equal and salutary influence of its regulationson
the trade of America. As citizens of a State,
whose fufferings and fervicespoflels a diftinguilh-
C n- 3n • *- n histor y our revolution, you
mult rejoice in the completion of our toils, and
the reward which awaits them—and as members
of the great family of the union, connected by
the closest ties of interell and endearment, the
confidence which you jultly cherifli of fharingin
all tlie benefits of the national compact, muftbe
ltrengthened by the experience already received
of thejuftice, wlfdom, and prudence of its mea
sures, candid review of which will eftablifli a
convitlion of liberal policy, and juftify the most
favorable anticipation of future advantage. I de
sire to allure you, gentlemen, of my gratitude
for the tender interest you are pleased to take in
my personal felicity, and I intreat the Almighty
ruler of the universe, to crown your wishes with
deserved prosperity.
G. WASHINGTON.
J3" The Addrefe of the State of Georgia in our nixt.From BE L L's ORACLE.
LONDON.
VANDERMERSCH—The Brabantins Central.
THIS illustrious veteran was born about the
year i 737 —of a family refpetftable, tho not
opulent, at Menin, a small city in Flanders.
He early embraced the profeflion of arms—and
served, with distinguished reputation, under Daun
and Laudohn, in the guert ede sept ans—Prince
Charles of Lorrain, noticed in him abilities,
and predicted future eminence.
Like Washington, the rank to which he at
tained in the army of that Sovereign, over which
he triumphed, was not high.
Like Washington, he retired to the enjoy
ment of domestic happiness, and the practice of
private virtue.
Like the American Cincinnatus, he aimed
not in retirement at the reputation of talents that
were not commensurate with the sphere in which
lie moved.
Like him his ability was only known to feledi
friends.
Like him he contemned the vauntings of hec
toring disciplinarians.
And like him in a inomtnt climbed the arduous
summit of military glory.
New-York, March 20, 1790.
Extraß of a letter from London, ifi Jan. 1790,
" Lord Hawkesbury and Mi. Grenvule
" are now actually employed in preparing the
" plan of a commercial treaty with your States
" which I doubt not will Jhortly be fully matured
" and put into a train of negociation."
Sxtratt of a letter from Providence, ( Rhode-1 (land. \
J -a. . j n/i » _ J ''
dated March 7, 1790.
" Alas For poor Rhode-liland ! doomed ft j 11 to
experience the evils attendant on anarchy and mis
rule.
The delegates of this place are just returned from
South-Kingstown, the convention having risen
last evening at ten o'clock, without accoinplilhing
the important business of their appointment.
Ihe convention stands adjourned to the 24th of
then to meet at Newport—which favour
ite measure was carried by a majority of 1.
Every objection raised against the general govern
ment was clearly obviated ; but antifederalifm,
obstinacy and ignorance, were triumphant. A
committee was early appointed to draft and re
port a bill of rights, and amendments to the con
ilitution : The former, lam told, is nearly a
copy of the Virginia bill—the latter are said to
have been colle«iled chiefly from amendments
proposed by other states. Where any thing new
has been introduced, stupidity is the characfleri
ftic feature. The old game of handing thef'e to
the people, is once moie to be played ; and yet no
mode is pointed out whereby their sentiments are
to be colle&ed. An adjournment till after our
elediioii, is intended to serve the purposes of par
ty, and obtain a re elecftion of the powers that be
or others of liinilar character.
" It is much to be lamented, that an exempti
on from foreign import and tonnage was ever
a/ked for or granted. The firft indulgence af
forded our antifeds an opportunity to dispose of
their fall produce, and they must be made to
feel, before they can be brought to a sense of du-
The great fliipmcnts of grain from America immediately to
France, and the high prices which the Americans have got and
will for a long time to come continue to get for that article, from
that kingdom and other countries on the continent of Europe,
has made our old friend Britain a litttle (harper lighted than usual.
She has looked into the cafe of the Heflian Fly rather more nar
rowly than lhe did before her proclamation came out forbidding
the importation of American grain into that island for fear of that
J'ttle infcci, and finds that it is a mere bug-bear : the truth of the
cafe is that she did not like to fee so much American commerce
going to her neighbors, for lhe well knew that large exportations
of American produce to France would produce a llronger con
nection with that country and large importations from thence
and leave a surplus in their correspondents hands in France, to
pay off the American balances to then British creditors. How
would this suit with British navigation—British manufactures and
the whole system of British policy—not to have American produce
loaded with two freights, two com millions, and all the other in
cidental charges on ihipping grain, Sec. through England to
France, ;nd having returns through the fame channel ?
A Correspondent observes it has been said that if Congress
should interfere in the regulation of the Have trade in one inftarice
they may in another, and under the pretence of introducing hu
mane regulations they may intcrdift thr business altogether. This
vs undoubtedly a fact, for it is impoflfible to mterpofe the offices of
humanity to any effect, in refpeft to this business, without cncrea
ling theexpenfe of importation in such manner as to amount to a
prohibit ion. The truth is, if you were obliged to build barns on
.board of (hips for the transportation of horses, they could not be
lent out o\ the country; it you fay that negroes> (hall be brought
l " e co "ntry in any other way than as brutes, you mud inter,
oitt the trade, to import them as humanbeinps, is entirely out of !
the queltion. - '
Extrafls from the Newport Heraid
The members of the Convention in opposition to the Conjlitnlion, met in
North-Kingflon on Sunday evening, and afteiwards at South-Kingjlon,
on Monday and Tuesday evening. At tkcfe nodurnal meetings, the ad
journment waj agreed upon, and the timefixed as teas voted by the Con
vention. One powerful reason which operated at those meetings, to in
duce an adjournment of the Convention tofo dijlant a period, was an ex
pectation that the Report of the Secretary oj the Treasury, would create
great uneasiness in the States in the Union, which would terminate in in
futretltons, and thereby would eflablijh the anti-federal power in this
State, and make it the centre of oppoption.
- From the conduct and converfihon of many of the members of the ma
jority in the (onicntion. in and cat of the Hc"f>', we have lea fev tobeHeve
«■ «*• *«.
the L att "" iM which they gave to the dates,
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW YORK.
Packet Antelope, Curtis, Falmouth, 62 days.
Brig Nancy, Barnard, Cape-Francois.
Brig Amelia, Lewis, St. Croix, , 7 days.
Sloop Chance, Fn%, St. Martins.
Catherine, Vilaretiga, East-Florida.
Three Friends, Davis, Boston, t 6 days.
Sally, Cary, Norfolk, 4 days.
Hancock, Brown, Rhode-Idand, 4 days
Aurora, Cahoone, do. 4 days.
Ship America, Cept. Sarly, arrived at Bombay, June 19, ,789,a1l wd
Ship Jay, toas at Bombay at the fame time.
By the British Packet Antelope, in ,62 'days from
talmouth we have received Englijh new/papers
dwntothe mimth 0/January, from whichwe
have feltlUd the following
European Intelligence.
L O N D O N, Jan. 9.
letters from Paris on Thursday bring us
Wcurious intelligence. The Marquis delaFayette
received information of a new conspiracy being
formed against the liberties of the people.
He made known to the King what he had dis
covered but at the fame time said, that he had
not heard enough to juftify him in any proceed
ings. He made further enquiries however, and
learned that a Monsieur de Favras, a gentleman
inthefuite of Monsieur the King's brother, had
been endeavoring to corrupt the National militia
that a number of high perfonswere concerned,
and that the plan was to corrupt 30,000 of the :
Paris guard, with wjjich they weretofeize on the
Government of Paris—to kill the Mayor, the
Marquis de la Fayette, and other distinguished
patriots. Two officers engaged in the plot made
this confeflion, and on Thursday last the Sieur de
t avi as, his wife, and two more persons were ta
ken up—and the guards were inpurfuit of sever
al others.
Whatever truth there may be in this new plot,
it had a most extraordinary effect in inflaming the
public mind—and in a paper published oiiFrulay,
it wasaflerted, that Monsieur the King's brother
was concerned—and that, in particular, a loan
had been negociatedin his name, and money rai
sed for the purpose of carrying into execution
this new contrivance. This accusation induced
Monsieur to go to the Aflembly of the Represen
tatives of the Commons, at the Hotel-de-Ville,
(which answers to our Court of Common-Courtcil
at Guildhall) on Saturday afternoon—He was re
ceived with ceremony by twelve members, and
placed next to the Major. A refpertful silence
fuccecdecl touniverfal plaudits, and Monsieur ad
drefled them in a speech to the following effetft:
" The Sieur de Favras having been, on the
evening of the proceeding Thursday, arretted un
der fufpicon of a conspiracy againlt the Chiefs of
the Municipality, and against the peace and liber
ty of the public—there had appeared a paper, as
audacious as calumniating, in which he had been
implicated, as having had particular connexions
with the Sieur de Favras. Monsieur declared,
that in quality ofa citizen of Paris,he had thought
it his duty to come into the midftofhis fellow ci
tizens, to explain the relation in which he stood
with this fulpecfted individual, who had been for
some time in his suite. He said, that having oc
casion for a sum of money, for the expences of his
houfhold, tlieSieurde Favras had offered to pro
cure a loan for him, of two millions, from the
Dutch Bankers—he had accepted the offer, and
had signed obligations to this amount. This was
the whole of the negociation he had with the
Sieur de Favras."
Monsieur added, " that he was lure they did
not exped: to hear him attempt to juftify himfelf
from any participation in an enterprise so infa
mous as the conspiracy in queflion—that his pub
lic condudl, and his well-known sentiments would
put him above all such suspicions—that after the
second meeting of the Notables he had forefeen
the revolution, and that, on every occasion, he
had demonstrated himfelf to be a friend to the
liberty of the people, and the public good. I
have always thought (said Monsieur) that the au
thority of the King ought to be the basis of na
tional liberty, as national liberty is the firmeft
support of the authority of the King."
This speech was delivered with elegance and
simplicity—and, both in the stile and manner,
was correct and polilhed. It was received with
the most lively acclamations.
The Mayor answered his Highness with that
propriety and elevation of sentiment which has
characterized his eloquence through the whole
of his memorable progress.—As Mayor of Paris,
he did not rife, but spoke fitting, as Monsieur had
don; so.
The flame of liberty has at length reached
even Rome, where the populace, headed by many
of the most ancient families,have already demand-
391
Ed a municipal and free government—His Holi
ness the Pope was at Frellati, when our advices
left Italy ; but his return was fixed for Christmas
eve, when a categorical answer to the popular re
quiiitions was looked for.
FRANCE.
national assembly
. December jo.
THE articles proposed on Monday, to oblige
all persons concerned in the management of pub
lic money, to give in their accounts, with a re
trofpecl: of ten years, to the New Aflemblies of
Adiiiiniftration, were decreed.
The following letter f rom hlonf eur was read:
" Mr. President,
I he detention of M. Favras having been the
occasion of calumnies, in which an inclination
was (hewn to involve me; and the Committee of
Police for the city having the affair at this 1110.
ment before them, I thought it became me to
make a declaration to the Community of Paris,
that should leave in the minds of worthy citizens
none of those doubts with which endeavors had
been used to inspire them. I also think it my
duty to inform the National Aflembly ofthisftep,
because the King's brother ought to preserve him
felf even from f'ufpicion, and because the affair
of M. de I avras is of too serious a nature not to
engage the attention of the Aflembly sooner or
later. As I cannot in person declare to the Aflem
bly my desire that all the details respecting this
business should bepublicly known, I shall be much
obliged to you to read this letter in my name,
and also the speech which I delivered the day be
fore yesterday, as the faithful expression of my
truest and most profound sentiments.
" I entreatyou, Mr. President, to be persuaded
of my affectionate regard.
(Signed) " LOUIS ZAVIER."
It may be proper to add here, that the Com
mittee, at the Hotelde Ville, have ordered Tho
mas de Mahi, Marquis of Favras, and Victoria
Edwidge Caroline, Princess of Anhalt Chairiboi <*,
his wife, to be presented ; and alio offered a re
ward of 500 louis d'ors to any person who shall
discover the author of a written hand-bill, signed
Uarauz, charging Monsieur with beingan accom
plice in the crime alledged against them.
LONDON.
The Herald informs us, that M. tie Mirabeau
comes into the National Allembly intoxicated.
The Warid speaks of his nineteenth duel. As
both these prints are venal, and virulent tradn*
cers of French patriotifin, there is realon to be
lieve, that they have fupprelled the addition of
Vicompte, that the public might confound the
person spoken of with the Count de Mirabeau,
and thus load him with the oboloquy of revels
and of broils. Theperfon of whom the two pa
ragraphs are true,is the Vkompte de Mirabeau,
the brother and enemy of the Great Mirabeau.
It is reported that the Turks have at last relea
sed M. de Bulgakow, the Ruffian Minister, from
the seven towers, and that he embarked on board
la Badine French frigate, commanded by the
Prince de Rohan, which arrived at T«iefte the
3d ultimo, after a paflage of twenty-one days,
from the Dardenelles.
Extrad of a letter from L 'tJbon Dec. 20,
" The American veilels have arrived in such
numbers lately, as to have wholly relieved us
from the disasters that might have been otherwise
expecfied. Most of the lhips have returned home
with wine and fruit—it being an arti
cle of commerce between Portugal and America,
that the Americans, for any cargoes they (hould
bring over, shall receive one half in the produce
of this country."
Extrad of a letter from Bruffeh, Jan. j.
" The disputes I before informed you of still
continue. The Clergy and Nobles want to mono
polize all authority, and the Tiers Etat will allow
them none ; the former begin to wish the Empe
ror had the country again, and indeed he eannoc
be said to have loft it, whilst he maintains the
garrisons of Luxembourg and Antwerp ; the lat
ter, however, is likely soon to be in the hands of
the people, but there is scarce a pofTibility of their
getting pofleffion of the former, although Gene
ral Vander Merfch has marched a numerous army
again ft it. Seven thoufandot the Electoral troops
of Cologne were to have marched to reinforce
General Dalton's army, but they were flopped
by the Prufiian army in the Liege country."
The King of the two Sicilies has publiJhed an
Editfl of restraint and diminished privilege 011
Monastic life. Vows are prohibited before 2J
years of age; and thofevows already taken, pri
or to that age, are absolved.
Further accounts by the Packet Jiate : That there is a profpett of peace
between the Emperor and the Turks : That the Imperial Chamber has is
sued a severe decree againfl the people of Liege : That 4th Jan. icas ap
pointed as a day of public rejoicing in the Brabantine Territories on ac
count oj the fuccejs of the patriots ; a medal is to be Jlruck on th&occafion.
The national AJJemblyis proceeding in the important business of compleat
ing the organization oj the New Government ; and making such arrange
ments as fhallfecure the freedom, peace, and prosperity of the kingdom :
The King of the two Sicilies, is clipping the privileges oj the clergy in his
dominions : Luxeruburgh and Antwerp areJlill in the hands of the Em- '
peror s troops : the former is besieged by the patriots : the emperor is again
sick : a treaty is concluded between Prussia and Poland, on new years day
the national assembly presented loyal addrejfes to the King and Queen
which were very graciously received.FOR THE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED $TJTES.
MR. FENNO,
FROM the general approbation of thenew conllitution,no doub 1
every pofiible aid necessary to give it force and energy fuffi
cient to answer all the wife and salutary purposes for which it was
framed, will steadily and uniformly be given by every well-dis
posed citizen of the United States of America—and it appears to
me (th 'J muftconfefs myfelf no adept in politics) that the fuc
cels, force and energy, of the government will very much de
pend on the situation and place which Congress may fix on for the
general feat of government. —Various places and situations have
been contemplated, and by different writers warmly recommend
ed, and tins is not only peifettly consonant with the unalienable
lights of every citizen under the happy and benign influence of a
free government; but has likewise a direst tendency to throw
more light upon a fubjelfc, which from its magnitude and inter
filing conferences, cannot possibly be too clearly underilood,
when decided on.— Under the impreflion of these considerations,
2 flatter myfelf justice and candor will ajlow me with modesty to
represent to the public, some few of the many, and great anvan
tages which in my view,fo confpicuoufiy recommend the situation
on the Eastern shore of the river Sufquehanna,and at the head of the
navigation,ornearit,of the largeßay of Cheafepeak,for thispurpofe.
The great number of conveniences, and advantages which woujd
inevitably attend fixing the capital of tne United States, near the
mouth of such a large river, and on the head of so extensive a Bay,
on which so many States lie, or are contiguous, and the conveni
ences resulting from this situation to the ;mion in general, confi- ,
dered with its several mutual advantages—l humbly conceive will
appear so obvious, upon serious and rati opal reflc&ion, and accu
rate examination, as cannot fail of being f fleemed the most weighty
and powerful arguments in favor of this situation, for the tranf
a&ion of the important bufinefsof the union, and for the holding
the great national fupremc courts.
This premised, the public will indulge one in a brief represent
ation of the River Sufquehanna, its various sources having lately
been so difcriminatcly explored by so many travellers of undoubt- |
ed credibility, as fufficiently evince, that it opens a communica- |
tion into an immense extent of territory where the foil and vege
tation isnaturallv such as moll indubitably prove cue long tp ,be
of inestimable value* It not only presents a number of pleasing
and elegant profpe&s, to induce adventurers to fettle it, which,
when occupied, and this river is made navigable (in my opinion,
as wrll as many others a thing by no means impraflicable) ail the
variety of valuable produce which it appears by nature iptended
to yield, for lome hundred of miles Northcaftward, may by it*
various branches ifTuing from different part* be conveyed into that
large stream, and by that commercial channel to this so well adapt
ed diftrift, for the feat of the union.—But it will likewise prove
an inexhaustible supply of timber of the best quality of every kind,
neceflary for (hip building and other work.
The great Bay of the Cheafepeak is so well known, by mofl
gentlemen who reside in, as well as thofc foreigners who have
vifitcd the United States, as may well apologize for but a verycon
cife description of it here.—l will briefly observe, that this Bay
is not only the largest, and the best and lafeft navigation in the
Unit: d States, but the mofl central ; that it is bordered by two
very confidcrablc States, and that its confines extend almost to the
very verge of the Delaware State, and within a small diflance of
Noith-Carolina, while its tide flows up the Sufquehanna, not far
from the Pennfvlvania line—That not only Sufquehanna, but the
great and extensive Potomack and James Rivers, which delineate
such channels of communication, and commercial intercourse with
a very considerable part of the back or western country, disem
bogue into it—and the meanders of those large streams pass thro
several parts of an amazing fertile country, and which afford a
number of most valuable produ&ious, peculiar to thofc late ex
plored region-, among which have been difcovtred, large bodies
of excellent coal, an article, time alone will determine the real
value of in the American world ; all whereof claim our attention,
as so many apparent proofs, that infinite wisdom and goodness have
been eminently displayed in placing so many bleffingi within the
happy domain of these independent and United States.—Now
from these observations, I trust a moment's reflc£lion will be fuf
ficient to evince how conveniently the valuable produ&ions of
those remote parts might at a small expence be conveyed down
these rivers into the Bay, and by it to the proposed situation for
the federal feat.
If this filiation fhotild meet the approbation of our great na
tional council tor their diftrift of exclusive legislation, it appears
highly probable, that the east fide of the mouth of Sufquehanna
would be the place most approved of for its beginning ; and to
extend from thence ten miles up the River, which will be three
or four miles above the flowing of the tide, and from the River,
as they may U their wisdom dire&, uutil it comprehends a dif
trift o f . or equal to ten miles square, which if fquave, or even
nearly 10, will be situated on a conflux of water*, that abound with
fifh of excellent quality and water fowl equal, if not fupcrior to
any upon the continent—and although the continental post road,
by palling through lands x>f the mod unfertile foil, lcaft cul
tivated of any on thofc parts, may naturally induce the observing
traveller to form an unfavorable opinion of this part of the country,
yet in justice to it, and for the information of the public, 1 mull
observe, that not far from each Tide of this road, arc very valua
ble farms, producing almost every ufeful vegetable of both the
Northern and Southern States, and within a convenient distance,
are unexhauftible bodies of Jimc-ftone of the best quality.
As many of the members of our national council have pafled
through this part of the country, which nature from a combination
of circumstances has lendered so very interesting : in order to rc
prefent the internal conveniences and advantages of this didrift,
it may fufhee briefly to obfervethat, cxclufivr of a variety of fine
mills and waterworks for different purposes; that there area
number of excellent farms and plantations, forae occupied in ag
riculture, and others principally in grazing, See. And as this dif
trift would not only be situated in a fertile part of the country, but
nearly join the wealthy counties of Chrfter and Lancaftcr, where
in are fcveral rich German and EngliftiijLttleincnts, which although
at a much greater distance do now, in a confiderahle degree sup
ply the markets of both Philadelphia and Baltimore. I cannot
conceive the lead reason to doubt,but tljat a Federal Town
in this place, would be plentifully fopplicd with the best provisi
ons, at moderate ratea: And whoever knows how much this
extensive and fertile part of the country fuffers for want of a cen
tral Market-Town, upon a moment's reflection will candidly ad
mit the propriety of this aflertion.
The public will fuffer me further to observe, that among many
other internal advantages attending this diftrttt for the Federal
Town,it will include Charleflown,which has already from its si
tuation attra&ed much publicattention. It rises from the fhorcs
of a pleasant tide river, so agreeably as to engage numbers of Gen
tlemen, when patting through it (who have not only made the
tour of America, but several parts of Europe) to halt on their way
to gratify the eye with the delightfulfiefs of the profpefh—At a
convenient difcmce from thistown, Northward, and from the ri
ver Sufquehanna, Southward, there is a chain of Mountains so
formed py nature, as to afford a clear profpeft over the town and
adjacent waf£-s as for as the eye can extend down the bay; these
situations having fine springs ifTuing from them are well watered
and adapted for elegant country feats; however if Con irefs should
prefer a situation some distance from tide water, there are fcveral
heights and beautiful elevated situations which would probably be
near the centre of this diftrift, and not far from the river Sufque
hanna, some whereof may be very jnftly esteemed for their pure
water, salubrity of air, and delightfulnefs of profpeft, and not
more than five miles Northward of Charleflown,the centre where
of is nearly in the direction of the general inclination of the bay,
although at some miles distant. From the top of some of thofr
elevated situations, the mod beautiful profpe£t fd wards the Ocean
is exhibited as far as the eye can reach, when even aflifted by the
bell of perfpc£tive glaffcs. What adds considerably to both the
advantage and pleasantness of these situations is their direttion,
East and Weft; whence there is a gradual descent Southward,
which not only affords excellent water, but an agreeable (lope for
indulgingthe moil refined taste inelegant improvement.
It may with some degree of propriety be further noticed, that
should Congress fix upon this lituation for the permanent feat, thev
will not only be nearly central, but in the leading high way of
communication from North to South. 111 this situation they will
certainly avoid those evils which a popular and commercial city
would expose them to, and that undue influence which cannot but
be experienced by a legislature funounded by men. whole interest,
may be opposed to the community at large, and those inconveni
encesand dangers in this rcfpeft,werc lately so justly pointed out by
an honorable member of the House of Representatives,* when in
a committee of the whole, the fubjeft of funding the public ddbt
was under difcuflion. A SPECTATOR.
* General JackforCs Speech.
EXTRACT from an ESSAY on AGRICULTURE
By The Baron POELLNITZ.
[Printujt by Childs and Swaine—New-York.']
IN the r dark, as we are in general, about the
means of nature, there is now and then a
glimpse of light which ihinesin our eyes, and will
guide us to lome discovery ! One great man, by
feeing a pear drop from a tree, discovered the
laws of gravitation ; another no less renowned,
by leeing a kite, the plaything of children, fly,
conceived from it, and executed to command the
thunder of Heaven : So will often a trifle be seized
by men of superior genius, and they will make it
the basis for inftrudiion to mankind.
But the enquiry is to be, how Nature has pro
duced wheat > Was there a previous dunghill,or
is it by means of dung the produce of man's in
dustry ? A finile will be the anfvver ; no will be
the result of the question.
What are then the laws, whereby to all appear
ance nature frucftifies the earth, and produces
plants of every kind ? 'Till convinced of error,
by arguments grounded on physical and chymical
experiments, I will be bold to fay, that though
there may be various concurrent ones, neverthe
less, simple laws are commonly the promoters ;
those which I will mention Hand probably fore
moft in rank.
I fay, the influence of air, with all its different
charaifters and vicissitudes, the fun or light, the
mixture of earths carried on by strong rains and
overflow of waters, are the laws and vehicles of
vegetation.
How far it is in man's power to apply these
principles to agriculture,! fliallcurforily consider;
and in this, as well as in what I have said in the
former paragraph, 1 am warranted, by what the
learned have proved by experimental philosophy,
and by what 1 have been taught by my own small
experience.
John Tull was the firft who went off from the
beaten tracft, and put new rules of agriculture in
pradiice ; his system was in part erroneous,though
part of it entitles him to our grateful remem
brance. Jolin/Tul) was laughed at, so was Chrif
toplier Columbus, till fadis gave credit to his dis
covery, and proclaimed his merit. But, without
going into difcuflions of old lyftems, or in all the
quotations of new ones, I will come to the point.
By deep and frequent plowing, we expose the
furface of the earth to more light, and to all the
influences of air ; hereby we help the operation
of nature in that cafe. By mixing our foil with
foils of different qualities, we obtain what nature
does by rains, and overflow of waters : By those
manududlions, art improves, facilitates, and am
plifies the means of nature to procure vegetation,
and thus wheat may be l'aifed in any quantity.
I mean not to detradi from the use of dung ;
putrified animal and vegetable bodies, accumu
lated in our dung-hills, are ufeful acceflaries to
vegetation : but is the furface of the earth not
also a composition of those ingredients, though
therein contained, no doubt for the best, with
other mixtures. Dung gives a strong additional
heat, and fomc plants will not thrive without ;
but wheat can be raised independent of a dune
hill. h
I go farther and fay, that sowing wheat upon
frelh dunged land is prejudicial.—Commonly I
use no dung to my wheat, but only on a previous
summer fallow ; and 1 callafuminer fallow, land
well dunged early in the spring, andfown in with
turnips, cabbages, carrots, beans, peas, lentils
parsnips, potatoes, flax, hemp or early corn on
this I sow wheat in the fall with success, and so
avoid smut, numbers of weeds and infedts, pro
moted and foftered by frelh dung.
EDUCATION.
THE importance of manners, or graceful de
portinent in inftrutSors of youth, has been
too little attended to. Tlie acquisition of fcien
tific knowledge is an obje<ft of unspeakable con
sequence—but Mann ers form the man—and the
future liappinefs and success of children are more
intimately connetfted withajuft, an easy and
dignified mode of address than they are with the
bare attainments of a common school education
The Worcester Speculator, No. 74, contains
among many others, the following judicious re
marks.
" I was pleased with au observation which a
392
I'erifrbie farmer made fame tioie ago, -when a
number were converting on the qualifications
of school matters. He lived in a town that was
noted for the negle<ftof schools, and for endea
voring to evade the law refpediing grammar
schools. It was his opinion, he said, that tho
a common man might be found capable ot'
teaching children to spell, read, write, and cy.
plier with exa&nefs, yet a gentleman (as he ex.
prefled liimfelfj tho not more capable in tliefe
refpetfts, was greatly to be preferred, because
of the influence and Ikill he would have in es
tablishing decency and order in the school, and
in forming the manners of the children, aixjjn
preventing or«uring any aukwardnels in theii
way of speaking or behaving. An obfervatiojj
this, worthy ofthe consideration of those whose
bulinefs it is to provide schoolmasters, or to em
ploy them."
FROM THE LITCHFIELD WEEKLY MONITOR.
ADVICE TO J HE PUBLIC.
WE find in the newspapers an extract of a let
ter from the Welt-Indies, complaining of
the badness of American flour, being spoiled by
meal-worms and mites ; and the writer willies to
know the cause of it—which every one ought to
know—for which reason, I will inform, those
mites are bred in hot weather, in mills and meal
rooms, and in store cherts. In the month of June
let the miller clean his rooms and chests of all the
unmoved meal and bran—in every hole and-cor
ner, and every crack—and instead thereof strew
fine fait, and make (moke in his mill—then let
him dress his mill so as it may not heat in grind
ing, and bolt and pack the flour as soon as may be
—the sooner the better, for the mites proceed
from an imperceptible, winged infe<fl, which ho
vers about in still weather, and meal is their a
greeable habitation in the lilent night.
I once put a buihel of new flour in my open
meal trough and it was spoiled in a few hot nights
—but the mites were there before. Flour for do
mestic use, will keep bell in good bags in hot wea
ther. As to the meal-worms complained of, they
are not bred in the timber of the calk, as the
writer is informed—if they were, the jarring of
the cooper's ax and hammer, and fire and fuioke
would Hop their progress. They breed in old
meal and bran, and make tlieir way thro worm
holes and bad joints of the calk :—There lhould
be made smoke in meal-rooms a little before fujif
down, that those winged infers, which may be
seen in the raysof the fun, may go forth. When
the flour is packed, walh the barrels with strong
brine and lime. A Litchfielp Milled.
Just publifhcd, by
CAREY, STEWART, AND COMPANY,
No. 11, of the vilth volume of
The American MUSEUM,
OR
UNIVERSAL MAGAZINE,
And to be fold by THOMAS ALLEN, No. »3,QuEEN-STaEsr,
where fubferiptions are received, at 2 Dol. and half pr. an.
CHARACTER OF THE MUSEUM.
I T has been uniformly conduced withtafte, attention, and pro
tl priety. A more ufeful literary plan has never been undcrta
" ken in America, or one more deserving of public encourage
u tncnt." His Excellency General Wajhivgton.
u It has been condu&ea in a manner highly deserving o{ pub
" lie encouragement." Hon. John Dickinfon.
" It far exceeds, in my opinion, every attempt of the kind,
" which, from any other American press ever came to my hands,"
His Excellency Governor Litingjloi:.
" I concur with those refpettaole characters, (General Wafhing
-64 ton, Hon. John Dickinion, and Governor Livingfton) in their
" high opinion of the work, and of its execution." His Excellen
cy Governor Randolph.
it- t^i— vt.:J __i
" The Museum is calculatcd to diffcminate literary, political,
" historical, agricultural, and other valuable information, in a
44 very advantageous manner, and to a great extent, and more cf
" pecially to preserve interesting documents from oblivion."
Rev. Dr. Stiles—* Rev. Dr. DxuighM~-Judge Hopkinfon•—Bishop
White—Rev. Dr. Etuing—Rev. Dr. Magaw—Tench Coxe, E(q.
Rev. Dr. Andrews—-Judge Law*—Judge Dyer—Judge ShetiMn—
Judge Pitkin.
To be SOLD,
At PUBLIC AUCTION, on the First Day of Apri l next, (if
not disposed of before, at Private Sale.)
HTHAT pleasant and valuable Place formerly eal
led COLES-FERRY, now by the name of VAN DUZER'S,
on Staten lfland, Richmond County, with two good fufficicnt
Pettiaugers for the tcrrying business. It is a beautiful fituatioo,
and one of the Weft Hands for a Ferry, or Tavern, on Staten-Ifland,
and an excellent Shad and Herring Fishery within 20 yards of the
door, Black-Fith, and all other kind of Fish in their season. It
is likewise the best and most convenient Ferry to Long-Island,
where a number of paffengerspafs and repafs. It lies within two
miles of the Pointof the Narrows, and between 8 and 9 miles front
New-York. There is about 30 acres of excellent good Land, chief
ly Meadow, with a very good Wharf, Hnufe, Barn and Garden—
the whole being in good repair. It will also make a beautiful
Country Seat, fit for any gentleman.
For Particulars enquire of John Anderson, cornerofths
Exchange, or Charles M'Lean, White Hall, New-York, or
of MelTrs By ekss and Rei l ly, Staten-Ifland, or of the Subscri
be* on :h; premises, where the conditions of sale will be made
known. ABRAHAM VANDUZER.
Statcn-IJland, March 6, 1790.
A LIVERY STABLE,
Kept by BENJAMIN POWELL, at the upper end of Quiek-
Street, Np. u x, near the Tea-Water Pumt.
\XT HERE he takes in Horses by the night, week,
V V month or year, at the most moderate rates that can be a*-
forded. He thanks his former customers for their favors, and fit
ters hiinfelf that care and attention will again be paid to such gen
tlemen, as may put their horses in his charge. Boarding ann Lodg
ing maybe had by applying as above. Feb. 2,5-