[No. Cl.]
THE TABLET.
<< £ r rer generally originates ■with the learned."
NO person, who loves application, an<l poflefs
es a good memory,'need despair of some at
tainments in science. It requires no effort of ge
nius to read or recollect what others have wrote,
or to recite what others have discovered. But it
Ms unfortunately happened that no fniatl pro
p6rtion of learned men have been destitute of
that degree of sagacity, which could render their
acquirements ufeful to themselves or society. To
a person void of penetration, no acquisitions of
literature will be fufficient, to cbnltitute him a
wife legiflatoror politician. The faculty of dis
cerning good from evil ; truth from erroi-, is ve
ry different from that kind of capacity which is
competent to colledl science. They are indeed
so \Videly different, that 1 can conceive the wisdom
of a man may decline, in proportion as his learn
ing encreafes. The main object of human en
quiry's theinveftigation of truth.This can be rare
ly discovered by those, who have not a clear con
ception, and are not accustomed to close reflexi
on. Where these requisites are wanting, it is ob
vious that learning will not leflori the confufion,
though it itiay add to the number of ideas. Per
plexity of thought may result, either from a na
tural defetfl of understanding, or from a careless
habit of reading more, than one understands or
digests. In the full cafe there is no remedy ;in
the latter, the difficulty may perhaps be removed
by reflecting more, and reading less. There are
a tlioufand sources of error, to which men of great
reading, and little difceriiment or reflection, are
;rfiinently e*pofed. They are more than other
irien liable, from a credulity of temper,to imbibe
the suggestions of folly, and to be ensnared by
she tricks of knavery. They areoltner,than anj
jlher men, beguiled from the truth, by the wile:
)f sophistry, and the eharms of eloquence. Anc
:hey are certainly less able, than other men, t(
■efift the temptation of offering projects, for th<
'aice of displaying their skill ; and of declarinj
(pinions, for the fake of (hewing their wifdoh -
The projects of such men, however, a'fe not oft
en practicable, and their opinions are feldon
founded in propriety. Tliey can escape error
only ifi pOiilts of which they are ignorant, anc
in lift communicate folty.unleft they remain silent
Jt is hoped the reader will not infer from theft
tHat I mean to dall in question theutili
ty ofleariiin<*. The mifapplicaticin of it, in fom<
inftancfes, Will, by no means, authorize a conclu
fton, that its ufeful purposes do not, uj>ou the
whole, far overbalance its pirnictous. Men maj
be flailed iri foine profefliori, who have little com
prehe'hfiOti with regard to other matters; anc
While they are confined to their proper sphere
their learnitig maybe at least harmlefs,if not be
jieficial. But we ffibuld not conclude that, be
cause a man is a flulful mechaliic, or ah experi
mathematician, he ha 6 talents for general objecft!
of buflnefs. Much less mult we conclude that £
nan, who, by laborious Itudy lias acquired a
f'mfttMfring in all the faiences', but Who, for w ant
of discernment is perfetf in none, can be qualifi
ed for those employrtients that require a strong
judgment and keenobferration. Extent of learn
ingcJan only be of' eminent ufe,where it is accom
pained by a coihpre'henfive, diftiriguifliing mind,
l'erfonsof a capacity,which however may
be fit for fomething,(Tiotild know their own limits,
and colifine their attention to those points that
correspond with their natural bias. They run
into fhiltakes", ali'dbecofrte contemptible, whene
ver they depart from that {fa'ndard. But those
■wht> haVe* aff'iiiid'e'rftanditlg naturally dark, and
clouded, in all things, multiply their errors, if
tliey attempt to acquire ideas in any thing, that is
not nearly felf-evident. People of this difcripti
on, after a feW years study, find their memories
itored with a great deal ofliterary fluff, and have
at their tongue's end a variety of tei hnical terms,
Whidftfrey leait-n afttiency dfuttering on all occa
sions*., In this tliey obtain the reputation of
pofleffmg vast learning i they are supposed to
hive a depth 1 of Knowledge when they (peak
upOn pbfitical or moral fubjeiSs ; because
they know not hov? to express themselves
clearly. It is eafv to imagine that such people
pass in the' W6rld for more thanthey are worth,
and may be employed in offices for which they
are totally unqualified.
Ignorant men mUft'hdve few errors, be
cause they have few 1 ideas' ; and they will
seldom impose on others ; both because they
do not wiih it, and becauTc they have little
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JbhN FES HO, No. 9, MAIDEN-LANE, I>JEW-YORK.
No. CI
WEDNESDAY, MARCH, 31, 1790.
influence. Learned men, on the other hand, are
strongly prompted by vanity to communicate
what they know j and when they have acquired
literary fame, there will generally be implicit
faith enough in the world, to give currency to
their fcheines and opinions. Thus it happens
that error, not only molt frequently originates
with the learned, but is nioft eagerly propagated
by them, and mod readily received from them,
by other people. The mind of a man may be a
rich deposit of faifis, who still may never be able
to compare them in such a manner, as to deduce
any jult inference, or make any ufeful applica
tion of his knowledge. The causes which pro
duce error are not to be removed by mere attain
ments irt science. We often fail of coming at
the truth in our reasoning, by commencing our
enquiries upon wrong principles. If a;l enqui
rer cannot therefore determine the propriety of
his original propositions, he may carry on a train
of syllogisms forever, and be constantly diverg
ing from the truth. Anothervery common caule
of error proceeds from falfe comparisons. Cases
are often compared which have not fufficient re
semblance; and pi ecedents introduced under cir.
cumftances, where they do not fairly apply.
May it not be concluded that experience and
reflediion mult be united with literary accom
plishments, to render a man really eminent or
ufeful > And who has not observed, that even all
these qualifications will not form a perfed: charac
ter without calling to aid,thofe powers of intuition
which can always acfl properly from the itnpulfes
of the occasion ; and that acutencfs of discern
ment that can rightly estimate every event that
occurs ?
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY, MARCH it.
IN committee of the whole on the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury, for nuking provision lor the support of the public
credit—the following proportion was read, viz.
To lidve the whole sum funded at an annuity,
or yearly interest of four per cent, irredeemable
by any payment exceeding five dollars per annum
on account both of principal and interest > and to
receive a 4 a coinpenfation for the reduction of
interest, fifteen dollars and eighty cents, paya
ble in lands, as in the preceding cafe.
'Hie motion to rcjm the propofltion wn difcuflcd.
Mr. Wmfl. Ifthe irredeemable quality would be any induce
ment our domcllic creditors, it ought to have weight. Ido
not think it will ; but it is said, that it will be agreeable to fo
reigners ; it may, bpt in proportion as they becomc intercftetj in
our fundi, this principlt will make us become tributary to them
fiirever; withrefpeft todai- eonftltueMs it must be acknowledged
thjt taxes paid tq extingdifli a debt, are always paid with most
cheat fulnefs ; so fai as my experience goes, it confirms this obfer
vifion, There arc four millions of our debt due to one foreign
natiori oAly; the iritcref? on which is 200000 dollars annually.
The ii redeemable quality led me to vo'fe ajtfnft the second pro
pofltion. I have the fame objection to this. The hrft proportion
I confide r ajuftand fair offer.
Tlie equivalent in land is a* favorable to the cieditor as the cir
curtlftanCes of the coUntiv will admit. Twenty cents an acre for
Wcfterrt Territory is hot too high ; it is a very moderate valuation.
Kentucky would fell for more than that, and ten years finre the
profpefl there was not so favorable as that of the Weftcrn Terri-
I l6ry. . ~ •
Mr. Wilfe iii the coiiriedf a'number ofdther obferyations, said,
that if he was a member of the British Parliament, he should rely
on the calculations offered in the report, without giving them an
examination ;he clid not dotibt that thev were just. The report
is an ingenious performance and docs the gentleman honor who
hds framed it. But as a member of the legiflatuic of the United
States, he had a right to investigate critically every propofltion
fubmittcrf (o him, aiul to canvas eveiy fuljefl with rigor. He ob
served that the gentleman from Maffachuletts had not inform
ed him tfpon the ft(bje£fs ps his enquiry ; he had told him that
the Secretary fays so, and that such and luch things aie foj which
he knew perfeflly well beforf. He wanted to know what was
the pfecife sum his constituents would have to pay.
The motion for Unking out this piopofition palled in the affir
mative.
The nevi propofltion was lead. i
" To have sixty-six dollars and two-thirds of
a dollar funded immediately, at an annuity, or
yearly interest of fix per cent, in edeemable by
ally payment exceeding four dollars and two
thirds of a dollar per annum, on account both
of principal and interest ; and to have, at the
end of ten years, twenty-fix dollars and eighty
eight cents fmuled at the like interest and rate
of redemption."
Mr. Jack ton moved to ftVike out the words " irredeemable by
artV payment exceeding tour dollars and two-thiids.
In fuppOit of his motion ht observed, that the irredeemable
quality, as'allowed by .gentlemen in favor of the resolution, was
altogether' for the benefit of the foreign creditor. On this princi
ple he was opposed to it, as well as to the annuity proportions,
which were calculated for the rich brokers of Paris, but by no
means for the citiztns of America. The former were in general
very rich, and commoply fmgle ; they aspired to alliances w.lh
noble families whodefpifed their connexions, and they were too
proud to marry those who were beneath their fortunes : Annuities
the eforeanfwered their purposes of providing for themfelves
thofe people, in general, caring nothing for poflenty. This w.
notthe cafe in America, where something more fubflanti»l would
ipfrtfe..
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
be fought after by a creditor, to leave his children. He said, he
was induccd to this digreflion, to shew the impolicy of holdnl*
out too £reata temptation to for igners: He did not (ik.;: the idea
of putting it out of our power to redeem the debt, whenever
the nation might be competent; and it was declared by geutle
men, that there were situations in whjch the debt ought to be ir*
redeemable. A great deal had been said on this head j and modes
had been pointed out how the debt could be redeemed, notwith
danding the express terms of th<£ clause. This appealed to him.
to be a cohtradittion of terms : But it was said, that the public
were to go to market to purchase their own debts. Severe cerv
fures had been paflcd on private {peculations defervcdly: But here
was an avowed one on the part of the public. He hoped that this
word kind of speculation would not be countenanced. For hi*
part, he conceived a proceeding of this nature, however common
it might be, a departure from the honor and credit of the nation 4
and that, if thi* irredeemable quality was dricken out, he belie
ved there would be no neceflity for this measure. The gentle
men who now appear so warmly to advocate the cause of thfc
foreigners, he observed, were of different opinions on a former
day, and infided there was no difference between a foreign or do*
medic creditor, and that they ought all to .be 011 an equality.
Gentlemen had given the house flatter ing accounts of the in
crease ot specie, and the benefits resulting to the continent, from
foreigners purchafmg in our funds; but it was certain with him
that this influx would prove but of momentary advantage, and
that the very purchase itfclf would conditutca conditutional drain,
in the intered, not only of that specie >yith which the dock was
purchased, but of thea&ual medium of the ,country* It therefore
becomes our duty to keep as much of this dock as poilible in the
hands of pur own citizens,and not hold out too at a temptation
to foreigners. The firft proportion, he advanced* wentfar enough,
and he was dubious whether there exifled a neceflity for any other*
Two-thirds of the debt was to be funded at fix per cent, and the
lands were tp be received for the other third : these lands were
the proper funds of this country, and were to be taken, as the Se
cretary himfelf advanced in his report, at a fair valuation : a dol
lar had been given for an acre heretofore--the price now was on
ly twenty cents. It might be advanced, that the creditors would
not receive them ; but this, he said, could not be done with jus
tice, nor did he believe it would be the cafe. Numbers had
plied, petitions were now on the table, offering to pay for thcl'o
lands in the principal of this deb£ : no attention had been paid i<j
them, nor was it known what amount of our debt we might ftfik.
in this way.
He had, however, no obje&iort to the resolution now before
the house, to give the creditor an option, provided the obnoxious
words were stricken out ; he was certain they would be
ble ; and if, as some gentlemen had reprefentcd them, they were
of no confcquence, he hoped they would not be contended for.
Mr. Boudinot was opposed to the motion, he con fide red the
inducement, in the reduction of the capital, held out in this pro*
position to the creditors, a full equivalent for ihe irredeemable
quality proposed to be given it.
Mr Ames : It is moved to strike out the word irredeemable
from this proportion of the Secretary. In order to judge
of the expediency of adopting the motion, it will be ncccfljiy to
take an extensive view of the whole fvrbjeft. It will be proper 1a
enquire, Whether it is necessary to effect a new modification of the
debt—what ought to br the principles and terms of it, and whe
ther the proposed amendment is or is not confident with them.
Why do we not provide for paying 6 per cent ? Let us perform!
the contrast as it was made. This has been frequently said. I
answer, other terms to be agreed upon will better in
terest of both parties.
Unqlieftionably the contr*& is binding on the government at 6
per cent ; nor can any thing fliOrt of the free consent of the eerdi
tors annul or change it.
We are to exclude from this difcufTion allfufpicion of bad faith.
Government lhould notdidrud itfclf, nor fuppofethat it is didrud
ed. The question turns, not on the willingm fs, but on the ability
to pay—not merely the ability of the people, but of the govern
ment. We are not to regard alone the vigor and efficiency of go
vernment, for this is not to be truded as the measure of its power
to tax. For this power depends greatly on habit, and is the slow
est growth of all the habits of a country. By often impofmgtaxes,
government may be sure of their produ&ivenefs—and in what
form they can bed be supported. A new tax is more grievous than
an old one; tor the people form their habits of living to the per
manent date of things. Experience only can teach the govern
ment what is pra&icable, and what is prudent, and habit not only
makes public burdens less obnoxious, but less oppreflive. I infer
ihat Congress is not podefied of its entire capacity to form fufli
| cient funds, nor of the evidence to fatisfy the creditors that they
; will be Efficient for 6 per cent. The funds rnud be fufficicnt,
• otherwise they cannot be pledged, and known to be fufficient,'
otherwise they will not be trudtd. We may fay and believe that
the taxes will produce a sum adequate to 6 per cent, but it will be
with a degree of doubt, and fubje£t to contingencies equally un
friendly to the public and its creditors. Securities would fluff uare,
tor this doubt would be a fubjeft of speculation. The creditor s
would lol'e much of their capital in the market, and the public
would lose the use of the debt as money. Those who advocate a
6 per cent prflvifion, will pleafeto point out the taxes which will
enfurethe payment at that rate. Straining the sources of taxation
may make the product of the fird year considerable ; but that of
the fuccecding years will be impaired. Besides, is it confident
with prudence for a nation to pledge its funds to the extent of its
capacity ? Contingent expence* cannot be avoided. These would
injure tne funds, and war would totally dedroy the whole fydem.
This is doing, at bed, temporary judice to the creditors but as the
insecurity of the papei will affect the price, it will not merit evex*
that title.
This leads to a view of the nature of this property. When the
funds are sure and fufficient, thq capital will rife in proportion to
the rate ot intered. The bed condition of the paper is-, when it
has a fixed exchangeable value, and at the highed rate. For then the
holder can difpofc of it at pleafurc, and without loss. He has no
occasion to desire the public to pay off the loan, as he can get his
money more conveniently at the time, and in the place he may
chufe by felling at market. The paper is as good as the money
lent. He may therefore be said, to every uieful purpose, to keep
his property while he is paid for lending. This is better and fafer
than private debts, and this is the natural date of public and
something mud be found wiong where it is not so fixed. It is
the intered of thecreditors to concur with government in the means
which will bring it to this desirable point.
What aiethofe means ?
The Secretary has offered fcveral proposals. Will these, or an
adherence to the original contract, in exclusion of them, best pro
mote the object ?
One of the primary means proposed by the Secretary is funding
the debt. Perhaps the ftri£t claims of the creditors < ould not be
extended bey-nd annual grants. But policy and libeial justice
forbid the measure. Where this has been tried in some of ihe
*States; the securities have net ri'en above 6/8 in the pound. Ido
not pretend that government fullers damage by funding ; but
the contrary. Ihe creditors, however, acquire a new riglu ana a
valuable intercft in the funds. For the appropriation is felling or
mortgaging the public revenues, and making them private proper
ty. It is the delivery of a pawn for the security of the debt.
The gieat operation, however, to give permanency, and value
to this pledge, and in a sense to insure the funds againfl adverse
contingencies is the cftablilhment of a finking fund. It cannot be
the interdict the creditors to receive perpetual annuities at any
1 ate ol .ntereft which lhall exclude this provision. For in that
cale, fix and pofiibly even ten per cent, would give them a bad
bargain. In proportion as the rate of intereil is raised, the secu
rities ought to rife, but as the rilk ol a failure of payment would
t>c cnctcaTca ever, more than in proportion to the rife of intercft,
it is fiercely t* be doubted that the fecuritirs would link below
the value which they wi 11 acquire by the proposed loan. It will
be proper to ask here, will any gentleman affirm, with confidence
that a lufftcient and sure provilion can be made at fix per cent ?
Will he go further and dcfi;natc adequate and proper fubjifls of
taxanon lo ensure the payment ? No genileman has yet attempted'
this talk, nor do I believe that it can be done with any prudence-
But even this talk if accomplilhcd by the advocates of lix per cent,
■will not be fufficient. They mull proceed and l urnilh a surplus
.evenue a, a finking fund. In proportion as the rate of intereil is
railed, the p'ovifion for it becomes hazardous—and in the degree
that it 11 so, the finking fund mud be nude more ample to fa ure
it—lt will be fafe to reft the argument on this point, and to infill
th " * s n " evidence is offered to Ihew that funds adequate to these
"bjetls cm be provided, the intcreftof the public ind its creditors
equally forbids a dependence upon them.—The finking fund is
an indifpenfibl; part of every system •, it secures the capital loaned
as well as the intereft—for every million that shall be paid off
will make the residue more fafe.—lf the whole debt was reduced
from 8o millions to 8, it could fcarccly be so mismanaged as to
want credit. The finking fund will lie conftanrly opeiatin* to
bring it to that point. It is also a security againll the dangc °ari
<i ig from an increase of public expence—it will alio prevent great
fluctuation in the value of the paper—for when it shall bechcapeft,
the purchafcs of government will raise it in the maiket — A»ain
>nt>ur country the quantity of money and othci active properly is
not in propoition to real e(late>—a great national debt when
brought tu market may exceed the demand. Tiie purchafcs of
government will bring the demand to an equality with, the llock
offered for fair. Supfjnfc the amount of the money annually e'm
ployed in buying up the public paper to be 5 millions—the dif
conftt IS Bow 60 per cent, paper being at Blf. in the pound. It' go
vernment could throw into the market one million for the like
purpose, It would cncreafe the demand 25 percrnt. and the fame
money wheA in circulation may be calculated to he in part at least
employed by individuals for the purchase of fecuiities, which
would further encreale the demand. Perhaps the Tingle operation
ot a linking fund may be calculated to dimimlh the picfent d.r
count one half. . r
There is no fubjeft so purely artificial as the fcirnee of public
debts whether 1 have afluraed Ulfe principles and drawn fanci
ful conclusions from them will appear by resorting to
Great-Britain has repeatedly changed' the form of her'debt—
<.eorge the lit. wasfcarcely seated onthe throne before a rebellion
hrokc out. This was suppressed, but doubts remained in regard
to his title to the throne, and of the ability of the public to pay
ltscreditors. To put the public credit on a liable basis, the par
liament proposed a new loan of the debt, amounting to more than
3? "I llerling, at a reducrd rate of intercft (four per cent )
riii South Sea company were authorised to buy up the debts, or to
futfcr the creditors to take (hares of the South Sea flock. This
act pafleo in 1719. and the famous South Sea bubble happened the
next year. rr
A still greater operation of the like kind was accomplilhed in
1749, a,lfl 'he inter eft on a debt near double the amount of the I or
mcr, 57 millions waj reduced from 4103 per ccnt. The war of
>741, and which was ended in 1748 by the peace of Aix la Chap,
ellc had greatly encreafed the puolic burdens. It was proposed
to pay the former interest till the end of i 750, ll.cn three and an
tl *' ie cn< * of 1757, and after that time, three per
tent. It will fcem strange that the creditors should voluntarily
accept a less rate of interest; we are well informed how
f ver that they consented to it for the fake of the encreafcd fccuntv
ol the capital, and the flipulated interest ; for by the favingsof in
terest, the finking fund was encreafed— the conduct of the i ridit
ors would be unintelligible otherwise ; for as the interest was lun
belore, and regularly paid, the onlvmotive to be discerned for
vonlcnungto the reduction, is what has beenjuftain ..led. The
linking tund has been called the last hope of the nation, and the
miTapplicaiion of it has been the lubjeil of great complaint and
u may be demanded, was not this reasoning of the creditors iuft ?
For 1! the public revenue had stood charged to the extent of what
it could produce, would not the credit of the debt have rested on
a very unsound balls. Britain had been frequently engaged in
wars for extending commerce,or eftabliftiing the balance of power.
And the unfuccefsful war of 1741 had ended in a precarious state
of armed peace. Unless the nation could be relieved so far as to
prepare for new wars, the creditors forcfaw the failur. of the pub
lie faith. r
I (hall be told that the proposal of a new loan is not to he defend
ed unlets the terms are fair and free;and that, intheinlhncesallud
cd to, Great-B'ircin offered i new loan in one hand.and the money
to redeem the debt in the other. Eveiy thin;; regarding the pub
lie faith is lo important as to he entitled toa full examination.
The firft capital operation of the reduction of intcreft was in
1719- Was the offer to pay off (he creditors made at the fame
time with the offer to pay 4 per cent. ? It feeins to have been un
derltnod that the creditors were threatened in cafe they should re
fufe to accept the reduced intcreft with being compelled to receive
their capital. This however, is not true—no offer to pay off the
capital was then made—the South Sea company was expressly au
thorised to pay off t tie debts, or Jo rn.iny oj th-m at a tivie as they in
rcgurd to their own circumjlumes and ability should think fit. Accord,
ingiy the (ast corrcl'ponded with the authority—and nothing but
the ftoi k of the company was offered inpayment for about five
i P arls °' 'he debt.—lt is true indeed, that the ft ,v k fold at a
great advance, and therefore wi. better than money—but it is al.
so true that the company took advantage of the rife of flock to the
titmoft and at the rate nf 375 per cent, exfept for about one sixth
part which they offered to pay in money and their own bonds
out as fto. k continued 10 rife, (hey made new offers at 500 per
< ent. and near two thirds of the debt was fnbfcribcd in a few days
they afterwards renewed rhe offer, but at 800 per cent. It was
provided in the ast of parliament, that the debts not fnbfcribcd
or paid oft ftiouM remain upon their former footing ; and not that
the creditors Ibould have their capital redeemed—But a eiicnm
ltance, abfolutcly conclusive agairift the reasoning urged in objec
tion, is. that the half of the debt was irredeemable, and of courfc the
creditors were not liable to the threats of government—that on re
ruling the new loan tl.ey (hould be paid off. They had nothing to
tear 011 that score, and ol course rould not regard any motive but
the advantage 111 point of greater security which has been infilled
on already.
In 1749 the fail is equally against the argument in question.
J Here wm not any offer on the part of irovrrnment to pay off the
creditor —indeed a Jicond ast was ra-rie extending the term with
in which the creditors fubfrnbe to the'new loan.—But so
tar tram paying thrm oft', the terms were made harder a'ainfl
c 1 and lhe /cduttion to 3 per cent, was appointed to a period
Swo years earlier—l7ss. In a third ast it cannot he denied that
means were ulrd to pay off the nonfubfcriSers. But the unfuh
i.-nbrd debt was tben reduced to the moderate sum of one mil
lion and thirfecu thousand pounds—and the bank was empovcr
ed to payoffthat sum. The Kin;, the I.ords and the Commons
tpcakoi tianfa&icß ?.s highly bcnc.fi. :al to the nation, atxd not
including the lcaft. violation of the public faith. Accordingly.the
bills paflf-d by great majorities, and with a great degree of popu
larity with the nation.
I am surprised that the opinion should have been so readily ad
mitted thut such an offer ought to be made, or that it could be
carried into execution. Could Britain have paid off 70 millions
sterling. The existence of a national debt is proof that she could
not : A nation that can pay the capital would not pay the inter
est. It is so far from being true that Britain could payoff her
debt, that all Europe could not do it. •
America is at this moment more able to pay off than Britain—
for two reasons. Her debt is not so great, and the of interest
is higher, so that fixe might procure new loans on better terms in
Europe.
I cannot discern the obligation arifingfrom the justice or reason
of the cafe to pay off on the retufal ot the terms. I should sup
pose in my fiinpliciiy that if new terms were not to be approved,
the old contract should continue—and that is precrfcl v the language
of the Britilh Statutes. It does no injury to the creditors to pro
pro pose to mend their condition ; the offer if refufed leaves the
parties on the former footing. When it is urged, therefore, that
government ought to offer payment when new terms are offered,
am I not at liberty 'to affirm that this opinion is not
warranted by history, nor pra6ticable in itfolf, nor required by
the reason and justice of the cafe ?
It is admitted, however, that the terms ought to be favrand free :
Are those proposed by the Secretary such, and will they give the
highest value, and inoft fixed quality to the debt ?
On lome of the terms full payment is offered to such as may
prefer land, on others, an equivalent.
Whether this offer is, or is not an equivalent, remains to be en
quired
The debt is offered to be made irredeemable, except at the rate
of one pet cent. Government agrees to forego the advantage of
the fall of interest. In times of war and calamity, nations are ob
liged to piy an high interest ; but when peace and commerce have
reduced the rate of interest, they are enabled by new loans to re
duce the debt to its proper standard. It is now peace, and go
vernment may fairly offer to make the debt irredeemable at the
due rate of interest. This is what the Secretary proposes. The
question, however, recurs, is this arrangement beneficial to the
creditor, and in what degree is it so ?
It is urged that the creditors arc rather disposed to consider the
redemption of the debt as a delirable thing : They wifli togcttheir
H° w then, it is demanded, can the irredeemable quality
of the debt be considered as a fubjeft of compilation and advan
tage to the creditor ? However paradoxical it may seem, all that is
jult flatcd may be conceded, and yet the irredeemable quality of
the debt may be highly beneficial to the creditor.
A compendious proof of this may be found in this way : Sup
pose that the proposal was made to make the debt irredeemable at
6 per cent, interest. The burden upon the public would be man.
j / uni * afon . aWc » anti thc " advantage to the creditor equally so ;
and for this plain reason, the public would be restrained from tak
ing advantage of the fall of interest in this country, or of the pre
sent low rate in Europe. Making the debt redeemable will not
redeem it, nor will it be of any ufeto the creditor. If 6 perc nt.
irredeemable, would be a hard bargain to the public,will the like
stipulation at a less rate of interest prove mutually beneficial ? This
is a quftion for the public, on deliberation to propose, and the
creditors freely to dccide.
It is neceff-try to premifc that the Secretary has founded hit re
port U p<in these two principles. 0.. the idea that the entire mass
ot the debt conllitutes a burden which it is inconvenient to bear
at once, he has piopofed to divide it into (wo portions. The fiift
portion, of two thirds is to be provided for at 6 per cent, the o
ther t.nrd is to be taken up afier the period of ten yean, when
our flrength ma) be more equal to bearing it—and this postpone
ment is propokd upon >rai,lc to both parties. It it fa
vorable to the public—firft, because it relieves the public from the
preijure of the present nectOity—and Iccondly, the debt to be
unded is 19 percent, less than the present debt—that is, the pub
lic receive 100 dollars, and in conlid eration of the irredeemable
quajty stipulated in the loan, is burdened only with providing
for 8x dollars. The amount of the > 9 perccni. upon the entire
domrllic is near 13 millions.
The advantage to the public is so manifeft that
I entertain no fear of its being overlooked*—*
more formidable difficulty arises irolft the Other
quarter. It will be thfe- pub Ire it is true will
gain ; but it gains too much, it is a difhoneit as
well as enormdus gain which is extorted from the
creditor. . ,
I respect this obje&ion, and will endeavor with
proper candor to obviate its force ; and this will
leadnie to the second principle of the Secretary.
rhat the reduction of die market rate of in
terest will make good to the creditor the release
of 19 percent, of the capital loaned.
1 his question is fubn-itred to the security hoi
tiers. Is it better for you to reccive a less rate of
interest 0,1 the terms of receiving it a longer time
or a higher rate for less time > we propose to pay
longer on the condition of paying less yearly
Supposing the funds to be sure, the value of the
capital will be regulated by the rate of interest
As interest falls, the capital will rife ; if i„ r
years interest /liould fall to j per cent, and in 15
more to 4 per cent, the creditor will be compen
(ated. Ihe grounds of this reduction of interest I
are to be examined.
It is made probable by fads— Before the war
interest was at 5 per cent, in the Eastern part of
America ; then things were in their natural Hate
and as Toon as the violent causes which have dif'
turbed their equipoise have ceased to acfl thev
will return to it This is the more to be expect
ed as the rate of interest in Europe is low. and be
coming 11,111 lower. Trade is ft,ll extending k
wealth continues to encreafe—the surplus
property which the owner cannot employ is of
lered 011 loan to those who can, and the market
is more and more overstocked with the quantity ■
precisely the contrary has happened in thiscoun
try—a great part of our active property was des
troyed by the war—but most evils tend to their
owncure-fuppofing a fafe and firm government,
the h.gh rate of interest here naturally tends to
draw the surplus property from Europe-it will
find its level-peace is diligently repairing the
wafteof war I turn with pleaftire from thU
barren disquisition to a scene that is interesting to
our philanthropy as well as patriotism.— My heart
glows while 1 think of the contrast between the
situation of this country i„ r 7 36 and now in r 700
No country ever made a more rapid progress to
wards opulencc—Wheievet we look, induftryis
-402-
working miracles ; we may doubt •
eft will not fall even farther than k i" 1 "*
Probably trade will no, bear ... interelt f"
» 6 per cent, and ,he person „ ho Z,"°, „'&*
after paying the jntereft, reserve a nrofir J
when tew are disposed to borrow, ni,y will bt
ready to lend, and inter eft will fall. But a debt
funded as u ,s proposed, will be fafer and ,nor e
eligible than any p, lva te debts. Four per cen?
from government will be nearlv enml to A e
individuals and a debt so funded will itfelf'^
du.e the rate of interest.-For even if it ihou li
be all fold to foreigners, they will pay the value
-and the property paid will encreafe the com!
inon ltock and lower inrereit.
The debt is to be considered, when funded a,
an increase of active capital. V\ e have been often
told, that a public debt is not a bleffino, but an
evil. We are not to compare a debt with no debt
—for it is a desirable thing to be free from debt •
but the debt is already contracted, and we are to
compare an unfunded fluftuatingdebt with a fund
ed debt. Such a debt as the latter may be com"
paratively ablelfing, tor it makes the capital trans
ferable as well as the income. We have but a
small lhare of personal property—but this will
make the very land and houses circulate. It is
true it is an artificial capital formed by a charge
upon every other capital—but it is alfotrue that
it is formed by small savings in expence, and if
the taxes were not to be laid, there would not be
an increase of wealth at the end of a year equal
to the debt, or the interest of it. A single cent in
the price of an article cannot be said to impover
lflithe people, or to rcftraim them from enjoyinz
their usual habits of living. Indeed it may tend
in some degree to prevent excess, and to promote
frugality—which will enrich the people. But at
the end of the year these almost imperceptible
funis, by their union into one mass, acquire a
new power. The whole may be said to have pro
pel ties, which did not belong to the leparate parts.
The a<ftive circulation promoted by the debt will
in a considerable degree compensate the burden
of paying taxes. 1 hose whole property is en
creafed by possessing the debt, will become the
greater conf'umers in proportion, and of course
contribute largely to the revenue.
Anothercircumftance ought to be regarded.—
foreigners will be led to thinx the government
fafe, when they think the funds so. Many will
follow their property and come to live
Whether the advantages of a funded debt will
balance the burden of having one is a queftionof
mere l'peculation. We have a debt, and mull
provide for it. It cannot be denied, however,
that these advantages will be considerable, and
will tend to reduce the rate of interest. Such a
reduction adtually took place in England after the
eftablifnment of public credit. In about five years
after 1693,intereft fell from 8 and 10 percent.'to J.
Whether interest will or will not fall in the
degree thai the Secretary experts, is a matter of
fair calculation. Taking the reasons together
which have been offered to evince the affirmative,
there cannot be any impropriety in propofingto
the creditors toeonfent to an arrangement which
promises them such solid advantage.
Let this advantage be computed—Bl dollars
are to be fuuded at 6 per cent. This is nearly
41. 17 s - Bd. percent. The irredeemable quality
of the debt may well be reckoned equal to one per
cent. It will be worth near that to foreigners.—
Add to this, interest is to be paid quarter-yearly.
I his is not only convenient, but actually makes
some increase of the rate of interest.
1 he question may very properly be proposed
to the creditors—ls this a fair equivalent? Is
this as good as 6 per cent ? Nay is it not better for
them ? Their debt is to be funded—revenues to
be mortgaged for the interest ; government agrees
to continue paying, tho interest Ihould fall—and
to provide a finking fund to ensure these advan
tages. Nor can it be said that the loan is forced,
for government, being at present in a condition to
pay only 4 per cent, offers it equally to lublcri
bers and non-fubferibers. This also removes the
pretext that advantage is taken of their neceflities.
Was any reloan ever proposed in any country,
011 terms more fair and beneficial to the credi
tors ? We have examined the fads relating to
the English funds. Their creditors facrificed more,
and for less. Of all the modifications of a pub
lic debt with which we are acquainted, is there
one less exceptionable than that pro:>ofed by the
Secretary ?
However artificial this reasoning may appear,
it is no longer considered as strange and vision
ary in Europe. In this tranfadtion government
is to accommodate its proposals to the ideas which
experience has eftablilhed in other countries. I
will not deny that I ihould have prefer'd a simple
6 per cent, proposition, redeemable at the plea
sure of government. But we have seen the in
expediency of that measure.
Upon the whole I submit it to the candid judg-_
ment of the committee, whether if a Congress ot
debtors only should legislate, they could, with
jnftice, or even policy, secure greater advantages
to the nation—or whether a Congress of creditors
only could with any degree of prudence provide
better fftrthemfelve??MONDAY, MARCH 29.
The bill to fnfpend part of the collection law
was read.the second time, and ordered to lie on
the table.
On motion of Mr. Livennore, the petition of
the merchants and traders of Portsmouth New-
Hampshire, was read the second time. The pe
tition referring to two difiinc't objetfts. One re
fpe«fting the holding the diftrisft court in Ports
mouth. The other refpeding reftridtions on our
trade by foreigners ; it was moved that it should
be referred to two committees
It was accordingly voted that the part relating
to trade, be referred to a committee of twelve,
and that refpefting the diftritf: courts to a com
mittee of thru.
The memorial of the officers of the late navy
of the United States, was read a fecund time &
referred to a committee of seven.
Mr. Bland moved that the bill jud now laid on
the table, should be taken up, in order to admit
an amendment, which he had prepared and
which, he observed, would not pi obably oe'eafton
any debate. Some debate however enl'ued, and
it was finally voted to refer the bill to a commit
tee of the whole lioufe, on Monday next.
A petition from General Hazen was read.
A motion was then made that the house should
take up the report of the committee ofthe whole,
on the report of the Secretary of the Treafurv.'
Mr. Williamfon said he hoped that the lioufe
would not take up the report—he wished that
North-Carolina (hould be fully represented on the
floor, when the question for accepting the report
should come before the house ; he wished it he
said as he had some fatfts to slate to the house
which would go to prove the total impropriety,
if not impracticability of agreeing to some of the
propositions contained in the report. He moved
therefore, that the fubjeft should be deferred
at least till to morrow.
Mr. Sedgwick and Mr. Sherman opposed a
poftponeinent.
Mr. Heifter (poke in favor of the motion, he
thought the reasons offered by the gentleman
ff-om North-Carolina important, and that he
should be indulged.
The question was then put for taking up the
report, and puffed in the alfirmative. 27 to 24.
The report was then read.
The three firft propositions were adopted bv
the house.
The fourth refpetfting the afTumption of the
state debts being read.
Mr. Carroll objected to proceeding any further
in the report; he submitted it to the house, whe
ther it would not be more regular and expedient
to go into a committee of the whole, 011 that part
of the report of the Secretary of the Treal'urv,
which relates to devising ways and means to pay
the interefton the foreign and domestic debts ;he
thought this would be a more regular mode of
conducing the business, lie moved therefore
that the proposition fhouldbe parted over.
The motion for poftponeinent occasioned con
siderable debate ; it wasfupported by Mr. Carrol,
Mr< Seney, Mr. Smith -(Maryland) Mr. Stone'
and Mr. Williamfon ; the laftgentleman observ
ed that the report had been agreed to in the com
mittee of the w hole by a majority of four or five
members only ; North-Carolina has about that
number in her representation—she certainly has
a right to be heard on the subject ; we aie not
yet fully represented—and are not prepared to
offer our sentiments. I have at home (said he)
I'ome papers which 1 wish to lay before the House
—I have not got them in my pocket— a proposi
tion to afl'ume 25 millions (1 believe it will turn
out to be 50 millions) ought to be maturely con
sidered. He had a variety of difficulties on his
xnind, which he wished to have removed. He
aiked what was to be done with those creditors
of the States who would not fubferibe to the loans
on this plan .' Adverting to the report of the Se
cietary, he said, that when he fawcalculations of
icocoo dollars to be derived from sources, which
he believed would be found not to produce five
—he confefled he had his doubts refpecfting the
r;ft—-he saw no necessity for precipitating the
queftion —He wilhed more fully to understand
the fubjed:.
flic motion was then varied to recommitting
the fourth prepefition to a con mittee of the
whole House—which was opposed by Mr. Sedg
wick, Mr. Ames, Mr. Lawrance, Mr. Boudinot,
Mr. Sherman, Mr. Benfon, Mr. Gerry, Mr. Burke,
and Mr. Smith (S C.) and fupported'by Mr. Bland,
Mr. White, and Mr. Jackson.—in opposition to
the motion it was said—that more than a fort
night had been ipent in difculling the fubjecl
that every argument on both fides had been pro
duced which it was probable could be fuegefted
— thatthc proposition was an eflential part of the
Keport—that subsequent propofit ions had receiv
er the approbation of gentlemen 011 a preemp
tion that this would form part of the system—
that all the reqiiifitc forms had been attended to
V Vj J he P» opolition was again re-committed,
it would be worse than facrificing the time for no
ODjeCt, which had been spent upon it, as the w hole
gioum. would begone over again—that the rea-
lipsisii
bers from P ate , d ' wiil afKml thc «"en,.
t o PP or t „..i t , olF „.
In support of thc motion it was said that the
majority ,n the committee in favor of the n" o >o
felon was small that the fubjed was very L
variety of dV^ confe great
i d, .? erenc 'emiments prevailed among
e a ff° P ~ ' e tCS WCre totally opposed to
the aflumption, as it would interfere with their
arrangements made to pay the interest of their
?| ,c fub J est was susceptible of new
light being thrown upon it—new arguments may
he adduced some objections it was said had ,Jt
been removed North-Carolina is interelted as
much as the ot her States, and has as good right to
be fully heard as either Maflkcliuletts or Soutli
fenr * " - VaS ull P rece< lented „ oc to con
lent to a le-commitment at the request of a n-ir.
ticular State. Some gentlemen in support in "the
motion entered into the merits of the proportion
They remarked that as the amount of the State
mio t h f WaS r n?t ful, X t ascertained, the aflumption
ngit put it out of the power of the United
States to make adequate provifi„„ for payment
"i of their foreign and domeltic debts
-and Mr Williamfon said the aflumption would
efraud the State of North Carolina of half a
million of dollars.
The qneftfon for re-commitment being put j t
P ed in the affirmative— 29 to 27. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, MARCH 3 0.
I he bill for accepting the cession of certain
Nnrrh r r" de , fciibed . by the state of
North-Carolina, having been amended by the
House, as dated in our last, and returned to the
benate—the amendment was concurred in bv the
Senate, with an amendment—this additional a
mendment was to strike out the name, of the Se
nators of North-Carolina, from the preamble
and was agreed to by the House. '
The order of the day being called for, the
Speaker lead the fifth resolution of the report of
the committee of the whole House on the report
of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Gerry moved that all the p'ropofitions sub
sequent to that for aflummgthe state debt, Ihould
be reconimitted to a committee of the wiiole—
He observed that these are so inseparably con
netfied with the foregoing, that those who con
iider the aflumption as an object of importance,
have aflociated the subsequent propositions with
it, and cannot confidently vote for the latter
but in reference to the former. '
This motion occasioned debate.
It was opposed by Mr. Carroll, Mr. Stone, Mr I
Seney, Mr. Jackson and Mr. Williamfon ; and
supported by Mr. Bland, Mr. Vining, Mr. Law
rance, Mr. Burke and Mr.
The motion being put, it pal Ted in the affirma
tive— 31 members voting in favor of ir.
The House then went into a committee of ilie
whole Mr. Livermore in the chair.
1 he proposition for the aflumption of the Stare
Debts being read, the debate on the fubjedl was
renewed,and continued until near three o'clock
when the committee rose without coming to a
decision.
A niedage was received from the President of
the United States, by his Secretary, informing
the House, that the a<sl for eltabJifhing an uni
form rule of naturalization, and the ac't making
appropriations for rhe services of government,
for the year 1790, have received his approbation
and signature.
A mefibge was received from the Senate, in
forming the House that they have palled the bill
for promoting the progress of ufeful arts, with
lundry amendments, in which they request the
concurrence of rhe House. Adjourned.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE PRESENT STATE OF EUROPE.
FREEDOM is inimical ro bigotry: The revo
lution now carrying on in the Austrian Ne
therlands, altho ic commenced in an enthusiastic
zeal to defend certain religious eftablilhments,
which in their conftru<ftion have a natural ten
dency to confine and contra#: the human mind,
will eventually produce aglorious emancipation,
eftablifli the rights of human nature, and deliver
the people from the tyranny offuperftition. The
views of the enlightened Patriot will never be
bounded by any object, short of the full eftablifh
nient of a free constitution ; the means to affe<ft
this are various, and none will be considered be
neath his notice, that has the remotell reference
to the ultimate design ; for the work once bewun,
the profpecfl enlarges, and every paflion, of°the
human mind may be made subservient to the cause
of liberty.—" Ihe proposed league of the States
of Flanders will, if effected, raile a molt formida
ble powei in Europe ; as it will comprehend the
United Provinces, the Flemings, and those ofthe
Austrian Netherlands; to this will probably be
403-
added as allies* the King of Pruflli, Duls of
Cleves, Hanover, Brunfwick, See. Before fuel,
a combination, the liouTe of Aullria mult ftirink
and even the imperial diadem mavbe lo't to the
preient faintly. The majority ofthc electorates
always going with the nioft powerful partv as
was evinced by the elector of Bavaria's being;
cholen Emperor, when Jos i-ph wasvounp, thro'
the influence of the Court of VeWailles—hut lolt
to his iannly when success attended the arms of
Maria Theresa"—This revolution has bee,,
u»n- , L '. S far ' with a(t °nifliing unanimity ;in
the Afleinbly that deliberated on -thi owing oft'
their allegiance to the Emperor ; there was not
a diHenting voice—their boldness anddecifion has
enlured them the approbation of the enlighten
ed of all Europe—There is one leilbn that the
people have learned, and that is, that Union is
P £ l " s^ noulu to every obstacle, and can infallibly
ette<£t every objevfl the people wifli to atchieve
aleiion that may make the tyrants of the earth
tremble.—Crowns do not appear to be so durable
an inheritance, as they have heretofore been
conlidered by their pofleHors.
(To be continued.)
STANZA Ov Perfection.
I'VE ft en an end of what they call
Pcrfefhon here below
Good David (aid and ! suppose,
Hj verily thought To.
But had he liv'd to fee the Men,
Who in our Councils fit,
ge would have found there is no End.
Ol all Perfefhon ycf.
IMPROMPTU.
" P R ° CR ( ASTINATIOX is lhc 'b'ef of time"—
• • . 'f us fun S th « bard immortal and fublimc 1
fvot lo the creed in modern legislation,
here time ispied by procrajlination.
NEW-YORK, MARCH 31, 1790,
Extraß of a Utter Jnm a me'chtrt in Union, u> hh friends in P/ :l .
luddphia, dated January 4, 1700
" cintumen,
Cornell H ' S Majcfty, (with the advice of his Privy.
CounclJ tnfcrtrd in thr London C«He ot the a 6 ultimo the
-;iJa" f t r he ; [ vr t,cat -" uur '^lw
mol, malt, bread, bifnm, oats, oat-meal .ir.d beam is "roh.b
it ED tmm every port in Great-Briuin, until further order - and
B LLC T™' M v w 'f e ,'"" i '/ ur ' h<r into England,
' Wh " Up ° n 1 wccd ' al ,h ' '<"» du!i " hich are on
\*fi 3 *si * ~ P° r Q uar lcr,
HWFlour, . «d. prrlulb^
nT.!. * ' 3 d - P" Quarter,
Oats . " " diuo Pe '^ Ua ""
ma^ke e t M nor 2nd i Ea ' ley " M " 1 W '" by no mcans »"fwer at this
market, a,courage you in the import of Oat-Meal.
EnglifhWh.lt . „: S3 finr
White ditto - a 54 fine ,55.6
Jive - - , 5 a 49 fi„e 5 o 5 ; 52
. .
TV „ , - 19 a2O old
Ditto Poland . :oi old
White Pcife . 27 a 29
Ditto for boiling . . 3S per" Quart, r
■n. V ru r 4» 10 44 per Sack of 280 11> nett
Portsmouth chronicle inform, that the Hon
ft £i»oXctoVnf P ' CfCnt " lVe ,hC UmlCd Sut "
In addition i? the addrtf, of the inhabitant, of Point a Petretc,
the American captain., the General Affcmbly of.the colony of
, c ,h , C n ft Th Vr"7 " PhlUdd P hla ««» consumed b, fire on the
at looof ' y unfortunate circumstance is estimated
Inth.s city Mr. Isaac No, ton, aged 54 years.
pUn" " '°° personal ,ocome wi . tMn Hm-
PRICE CURRENT. CONTINENTAL SECURITIES■.
Fir.al Settlements, -/6.
Indents, '
ARRIV ALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW YORK.
ShtpThctii, Harrifon, Liverpool, 7I davs
l,i^T en " Domin,
Bug Chariot!er. Dcfcong, Port an P.ince, Todays
—-Brig Vrow Gccrtie, Du.f, Bordeaux, 84 days
Sloop Experiment, Tyhr, Ch.rlcfton, /days
S ° o pM,na, Elliott, Ditto, 7 days
Sloop Columbia, Irilh, Cant Franrni. ~
•n«v J r L . Am ' ER TISEMENT.
BThe oJufti«t0Jufti« t of tt n Sup^e JO Co n uf!°„ f ; Vf' °" e ° f
of New-York. Notice hereby gv „ ?
said Paul Devreil'l Fft.-.e h " d . lrt . ard all his
of March, in the rr:r J our Lo-dore'.1 le icvcr.'K day
nd ninety. ' V ° rour^u = one thoufsr.d leven hundred
Sternhold (i Iloj
days.New-York, March 31, 1790.
ON the i-2th of February, at seven in the even
ing, a tremendous fire broke out at Point
Petre, in Guadaloupe, and was not extinguished
till midnight. There were twenty five capital
buildings confutned, belides a number of fm'»ler
ones—the whole loss estimated at fix millions
oflivres. We are happy to add, that a number
of veflels belongingto the United States were ly
ing in the harbor, the mailers and crews of which
exerted themselves in the most signal manner on
this diftreifing occasion ; and the assistance they
lent was eltecmcd so important as to entitle them
to receive the thanks of the public by a committee
from the citizens of the town, as folldws :
By aCommitteeof the Citizens ofPointa Petre, to
the Americans now amongst us
Brave and generous Friends and A!ties,
THE unfortunate persons who have fuffered by
the late mertilefs fire in this town, feel thein
ielves under the molt lasting obligations to you,
for yourfo generouily exposing your own lives in
endeavouring to lave their effe<fts and property
from ruin.
Such as have escaped the rage of this devour
ing element, are no less indebted to you for their
lives—your prefenceof iiiiiid,ftrtngth and resolu
tion in arrelting its fatal progress, lay claim to a
lading remembrance from every inhabitant of
this place.
This unfortunate accident was notnecefiary to
prove, that all mankind are brethren ; muchlefs,
to convince the French of your iincere attach
ment to them.
It is the wish of the committee that the address
may, in the most public manner teftify their grate
ful acknowledgments for your services on this
melancholy occalion ; and that a copy of the ad
dress may so far merit your approbation, as to be
lent to the minister of France, that it may be
forwarded and presented to the representatives
of the United States of America—And may a
people so illuitrious andfo generous as the Ame
ricans, enjoy all the prosperity and happiness of
which they are so highly deserving.
Done and concluded by the committee at Point
a Peti e, this 18th of February, i 790.
(Signed)
Via/l, J. Cadiot Lombard-Rebian.
Blandet.
Magagnos.
To the Honorable the Prefidenc and Members of
the Committee of the town of Point a Prftre,
Grand Terre, Guadaloupe, &c. &c.
Gentlemen.
We, the masters, commanders, and mariners
of the ships and other veflels belonging to the
United States of America, now riding at anchor
in this port, do acknowledge the receipt of your
affectionate and polite address, for which, from
this Angular testimony of your allied friendfhip,
we beg leave to return you our most hearty and
lincere thanks.
Tlie many eminent and often repeated services,
that we and our fellow-citizens of America recei
ved from your august nation, at a time when we
were groaning under the tyranny andoppreffion
of Britain) will ever leave a deep impreflion of
gratitude andefteem upon our minds for the good
people of France.
The encomiums you are pleased to bellow upon
us are ui the highest degree flattering ; at the
lame time permit us to fay, that we performed no
more than a duty we owed to ourfelvesupon the
principles of humanity, philanthropy, and good
■will to all mankind. We are sorry that the fnral
nefs of our number did not permit us to lend a
more effectual aid in sooner terminating this
deftrucfiive conflagration ; but, if our efforts had
■only contributed to favea single individual from
distress, we should confidcrthofe moments of dan
gerous exertion as the happiest of our whole lives.
Give us leave to add, gentlemen, that we fliall
ever have at heart the particular welfare, pros
perity andhappinefs ofthe citizensof Point Petre,
as well as of this refpc<ftable and flouriiliing co
lony in general. Long may you enjoy the happy
fruits, and every advantage and benefit ariiing
from an unrivalled commerce ; a commerce which
is at this momentthe envy of your neighbours, as
being under the protection and influence of that
benign genius of liberty in whose cause your na
tion has so nobly and conspicuously distinguished
itfelf. We fliall conclude, gentlemen, with ex
prcfling our warmest willies, that yon may long
be participators in the blellings of health, peace,
and prosperity ; the patrons of honor and justice
in your community ; and that our mutual fiiend
fhip may never again be interrupted, by our vei
fels being excluded from the commerce of this
port. With the most ardent wishes for the wel
fare of yourselves and j our families—we'remain,
gentlemen,
With every acknowledgment
of refpe«sl:, your most obedient
and humble servants,
(Signed in behalf of the Captains, &c.)
JOHN STFPHENSON.
Delort. Buident 1 - ,
Irouftl. 3 ***
The following Objervations on GYPSUM, Or PLAIS
TER of PARIS, by Dr. Log an, of Peunfyivania,
accompanied the Experiments, in our lajt.
GYPSUM, which has acquired the name of Plaifter of Paris 1
from its abounding in the neighborhood of that city is ot
a stony nature, yet loft and easy to be (craped with a knife.•« It is
found in innny parts of the earth in very great quantities, forming
hills of a considerable extent, a* in the vicinity of Faris, in the
hay of Fundy, in Russia, and in many other parts of the world.
It is found under different appearances.
lft Chryftalized into transparent plales, which can be easily
separated with a knife, and which, in tome part of Ruflia, arc
said to be so large as to answer the purpose of glass.
2d. Of a fibrous texture, and compofcd of oblong concretions
lying across the mass.
3d. Composed Of small chrvftalinc grains; this species is called
alabaster, when it a hardnffs capable of receiving a polish.
Ii» the crata of Mount Mart near Paris, all the above varieties
are found, and also a flratum of a leis perfect matter filled with
final! fliells : a fpccimen of which I have in my pofleflion : I
have also a bfcalitiful fpccimen of the chryftalized gypsum, lately
brought from the Bay of Fundy.
Every kind of gypsum, however different in exterior form or
appearance, have all a perfect rcfemblance in their chemical and
eirential qualities.
It is generally allowed that gypsum is principally composed of
calcarious earth, but it is not so well ascertained with what sub
stance it is united, which prevents it from having thfc power of
quick lime when burnt. Regarding calcarious earth as forming
the basis of this substance, it may beneceffary to take notice of the
different forms uhder which calcarious earths appear
That which is in the greatest quantity, dnd properly called cal
carious, is distinguished from the reft from the effett which fire
has upon it, in converting it into a quick lime ; alt others should
rather be termed alkaline absorbents. Calcarious earth appears
in a variety Of forms ; there are very considerable flrata of it in
the bowels of the eaTth, as marble, and chalk, which
differ only in the degree of purity or mode of concretion.
It is often found in veins filling up the rentsor cavities of tnoufi
tains, and is called calcarious spar : some of which contain a
Quantity of this earth, but not in a pure (late : some are perfe£lly
transparent : and from being found in Iceland, are called Iceland
crystals.
The matter with which animal and vegetable substances are in
cruftcd, or penetrated by the waters of particular (prings, so as to
retain their external form, but lose their nature and become (lone,
is generally of this kind ; and (hews that this earth is capable of
being difTolved by water, and being introduced into £he texture of
animal and vegetable fubftanCe. This earth also produces the
' 4r £ c pendulous columns and cones that are found hanging from
the roofs of large caves, as in Derbyfliire.
The ftoily shells of all cruftaceous animals, from thecoarfeft, to
the coral and pearl, are all composed of this earth, and a small
quantity of animal glue. A viscid fluid proceeds from the fur
face of the animal, which becomes a tough membrane, and gra
dually hardens into this form. The (hells of all kinds of animals,
together with all coraline concretions consist of the calcarious
earth, united with a small proportion of animal glue.
Marie is an alkaline earth, but canuot be converted to quick
lime : ft h composed of calcarious earth and clay : and its value
36 a manure is estimated in proportion to the quantity of calcarious
earth which it contains. Maries alfume a variety of colors, but
are pioperly divided into flteH atid (lone marie.
Shell marie is composed of the (hells of (hell fi(h, or dther a«-
quatic animal?, which are sometime entire, and often decayed or
mixed with other earthly fubftdnces.
fcxamining this matter as occurlng in different places, it may
be dtftinguilhed into frefh water marlfc and <he marie of sea fhelh.
The firlt is composed of a small frefh water \*ilk or snail : this
animal when alive is not easily diftoverable, the (hell being much
of the fame color as the (tones covered with the water, but great
numbers of them arc to be found in many small brooks, particu
larly in their passage through the low wet grounds ; as the a'rimal
dies the (hell is depofitcd.
The second com'pofed pi Ma Ihells conftltutes much greater col
lections, and are found in innumerable places now far removed
from the fca.—That mod'particularly dcfcribed by naturalists t is
a collection of this kindi in ToOrairte, a province in France. This
part of the country, where it is found, is computed to contain 80
square miles of l'urfaco ; and.wherever they dig to a c-rtain depth
they find this colle&ion of (Hells, compofmg a fttaia of 20 feet
thick Tnt- country at prelent is 108 miles from the sea.
The (lope or clay marles bear more or lefr arefemblance to clay ;
they are yery various in their color, and other appearances, but
agree in containing* quantity of clay united with calcarious earth,
so as to effervefee with acids—Thi stone marles are harder than
the clays, but being cxpofed to the action of thefun and froft, they
crumble into powder, which is easily mixed with the foil, though
some of them require a very long time belore they are divided
fine enough to be mixed completely with it.
Thefc are the principal formsin which calcarious earth is found.
They all derive their origin from the calcarious matter of (hellt;
for we find relics of (hells in by far the greatest number of lime
(tones, chalks, gypsums, and marbles.
In what manner thele great changes in nature have been brought
about, will perhaps never be discovered ; but they certainly in
dicate a prodigious revolution in this globe.
We know of no country where gypsum is mat?e ufc of as a ma
rtuie for grain : In fdm£ parts of Germany and in Switzerland, it
has been used upon grrfs. Mortf. dfc Laze.'lky, in a lhort ac
count of the agriculture of' Switzerland, inferred' in Young's an
nals, vol. B', observes, that " in Alsace thcif meadows are well
managed, and I have been allured that they have a powerful ma
nure in plaifter stone, 01 gypsum, qot burnt, but pounded to pow
der.—An intelligent person who ciihivates'for his anvufement, and
as an amateur, told me that the effect was aftoniftiing upon clover,
and in central much greater npoti ligHt than upon strong lands ;
it is so sure that (light failure rauft not disgust." Mr. Young, in
a note upon the above paflagt, fays he hopes he (tall hear from
R. S. on this fubjeft, it is an important one.*
Rv this note it appears that Mr. Young, the moll intelligent and
belt farmer in England, is ignorant of flic ufc of gypsum as a mi
nuie ; although it abounds in many parts of England. They have
lately renewed their farms, and made them very pjcwluftive by
the use ot marie, particularly in the light sandy lands of Norfolk
formerly the worst, now the bell cultivattd county in England!
"I he balis of marie and gypsum is calcarious earth ; the one urtiicd
with clay, the other with a fubftancenot clearly ifcertained- both
have their origin in the decay of (tells, and when put on the
tjrountf produce fnhiliir cffefls. Arable ground covered with ei
ther, Will have on thefurface a milky appearance durinp dry wea
ther ; both answer bed aS a manure upon sandy, gravelly or li E ht
lands, and when applied as a top dieffihg to grass or pafturc lands,
they equally produce a great luxunancy of white clover, giviac
the grass a rich black color. b b
Frort the natural history of these foffils and their effects in pro
moting vegetation, we irtiy conclude that thev contain in them
selves a certain nour.mment to plants, arising from a concentration
of the animal glue cxilting in their onginal ftatdof (hell fidi ■ too
much pains cannot be taken to engage our farmers generally in
Stcntony Ottobcr 3, 1789,
Read before the Agricultural Society of Pennfvlvam*.
-404-
GEORGE LOGAN
PREMIUM?
Proofed by the PHILADELPHIA SO.CIETT f r y
promoting AGRICULTURE,yir they ear 1790.
FOR the best experiment made of a course of
crops, eitirer small or large, on hot less than
four acres, agreeable to the English made of
farming,—a piece of plate, of the value of two
hundred dollars, inscribed \Vith thfc name and
the occasion ; and for the experiment made of a
course of crops next in m^rir, —apiece of plate
likewise inscribed, of the value of one hundred
dollars. Certificates to be produced by the2oth
of December, 1 790.
11.
The importance of cbmplete farm or fold-yards
for sheltering and folding cattle, —and of the belt
method of conducting the fame, so as to procure
the gl-eatelt quantities ofcompoft, or mixed dun*
and manure, from within the farm, induces the
society to give, for the btft dfefign offuch a yard,
and method of managing it, practicable by com
mon farmers, —a golden medal ; and for thele
cond belt, —alilver medal. Thedelightobepre
fented to the fotiety by the 20th of December
1790 '
For the best method of railing hogs, from the
pig, in pen or ftiesfrom experience ; their some
times running irt a lot Or field not totally excluded
if prefered,—a gold medal ; and fey the second
best, —a silver medal. To be produced by the
20th of December, 1790
IV.
For the best method of recovering worn-out
fields to a more hearty state, within the power of
common farmers, without dear or far-fetchedma
nttres ; but by judicious culture, and theapplicd
tion of materials comrtion to the gerterality of
farmers ; founded in experience,—a gold medal;
and for the second beft.—afilver medal, To be
produced by the 20th of December, I 790
V.
For the best experiment, foil and other citcum
ftances considered, in trench-plowing, not less
than ten inches deep, and accounts of theeffedh
thereof, already fnade or to be made, on not less
than one acre, —a gold medal ; and for the se
cond best, —a silver inedal. To be produced by
the 20th December, 1796.
(To be continutd.)
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, for the purpose of railing Sivtr. Titu
fund Five Hundred Pounds, agrcable to an ACT of the Lcgifli
turr of the State ot New-York, passed Bth February, 1790.
SCHEME.
1 PRIZE of £ i~'3 oo ®
2 i ot>o 2 (Joo
3
10
3*
120
180
795°
8346 Prizes, > , .. .
Blanks, J 2 5°°° Tickets, a( 40s. each, { &<><*>
Subject to a deduction of Fifteen p'efCent.
THEobje£fc of this LOTTERY being to raise a part oftfhe fuw
advanced by the corporation for repairing and enlarging the CI-
T\ HALL, for the accommodation of which docs
so much honor to the Architect, as well as credit to the city, "the
managers presume that their fellow Citizens will cheerfully con
cur in promoting the sale of Tickets, especially as the success of
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, which must othcrwife
be laid to reimburfethe corporation.
The above SCHEME is calculated in a matiner very beneficial
t0 ven - urcrs » t here not being two blanks to a prize.
The Lotlery is intended to commence drawing on the Ftitsr
Monday in August next, or sooner if filled, of whidh timfcly
noifice' Will be given. A lift of the fortunate numters willbepub
lifhed at the expiratioii of the drawing'.
rickets are to be fold by ther fubfcribefti wb6 aire
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutenburch, Abraham Herrin'o,
Peter T. Cuxtenius, John Pintard.
6tk Ma*chj 1790.
4i , To i be SOL D,
At PUBLIC AUCTION, cn the First Day of April next, (if
not disposed at before, at Private Sale.)
r I .''HAT pleafanc and'valuable Place formerly cal
led COLES-FERRY, nowby the name of VANDU2ER'S»
on St a ten Island, Richmond County, with two good fufnein*
Pettiaugers tor the ierrymg business. It is a beautiful situation,
and one of the best (lands for a Ferry, or Tavern, on Staten-Ifland,
and an excellent Shad and Herring Filhery within 20 yards of the
door, Black-Fish, «nd all other kind of Fifn in their It
is likewise the best and moil convenient FtrYy to Long-Ifond,
where a number of paflengerspafs and repafs. It lies within two
miles of the Pointof the Narrows, and between 8 and g miles from
NeW-York, TheVtf is about 30 acres of excel lent good Land, chief
ly Meadow, with a very good Whirs, House, Barn and Garden--
the whole being in good repair. It will also make a b'eahtih'i
Country Seat, fit for any gentleman.
For Particulars enquire of John Anderson, cornerofthe
Exchange, or Charles M'Lean, White Hall, New-York, or
of Meflrs BvEßssand R e'i ll y, Stateh-Ifland, or of the Subscri
ber on the prcmifes, where the conditions of sale Will be mads
known. ABRAHAM VANDUZ£R.
Stutch-IJland, March 6, 1790.
this day is published,
(Price Sid Shillings, bound ahd lettered)
And to be Cold, by appointment of the Author, by Meltis. Ber r *
and Rogers, No. 35, by A. M'Lean, No. 41, (Frankly 6
Head) Hanover Square, ana by the Editor hereof, No. 9,
den-Lane,
GEOGRAPHY MADE EASY
BE INC AN ABftIDGIMINT OF THE
AMERICAN GEOGRAPHY.
111.
50°
200
1500'
2000
3000
2500
24 b®
1800
100
ao
10
4
|»#o®