[No. XCVI.j
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
A FEW suggestions on the all important fubjett of funding the
public debt, which are dittated by a regard to the future
welfare and happiness of this country, will I hope meet with a
liberal interpretation from a view of the motives which induce
them. The late revolution in the government of these States con
sidered in an abftra£l light was undoubtedly an event of great
magnitude and consequence ; yet upon the a&ive operation of the
powers veiled by the new conllitution in the great legiftaterre of
the union, will depend all those civil blessings which an enlight
ened and well informed people are capable of enjoying. To the de
falcation of public promises in this country for many years past,
and consequent want of private confidence, may be mostly attri
buted the evils we long fuffered, even to the lowed ebb of nation
al degradation ; while the general sense entertained of the cause of
those evils which was discoverable in the exertions made to pro
cure their remedy by the new organization of our political sys
tem, seemed to evidence to a candid world, that the defe&ion ex
isted rather in the head than the heart, and that we wanted only to
become acquainted with the mean? of relief to prattice upon
them ; it !s yet to be hoped that this just expe&ation will not fail
to become realized in the determination of government relating
to the funding system ; and the more especially, when we reflett
that a failure now, will be proportionably difadvantagecfcis, as
the steps hitherto taken have enhanced the public anticipation
and confidence.—Having made these general observations, I come
to take a view of that part of the Secretary's report that relates to
the afiumption of the State debts, and which appears to be a mea
sure recommended by every motive of found policy, evident ex
pediency, and substantial justice. I have never been able to dis
cern any real difference between the two kinds of debt,continental
and State; I mean so far as either were contrasted in the profe
«cution of the late war, and to answer the public exigencies ; I be-
Uieve on examination, the chief diftinftion will be found merely
adventitious, and to exist only in form—nor even so far in form,
as to impair the obligation which the united government is finder
to provide for their discharge, or equal place in the funding plan ;
they are doth the price of our independence, and present national
confcquence, and must be both guaranteed by the sceptre of jus
tice-—that it is expedient they should be thrown into one general
rnafs, will appear from the consideration, that the several States
liave relinquished to the government of the union the means by
■which they would be enabled to make a separate provision for
their payment—for though they may possess a concurrent power
of laying excise, &c. yet the confuhon which would result from
the exercise of that power to such a degree is fufficiently obvious,
to illuflrate the inexpediency of its adoption, to avoid the great
injuries arising to the interest of individuals, as well as to the ef
licacv of public meafflres by such complex fyftemsof finance, and
diverfc modes of taxation, may be viewed as one of the efficient
causes of the late change in our government. The policy of es
tablishing one uniform system of finance through the union, must
obtrude itfelf on the mind as the natural di&ate of common sense
and observation ; and warranted by the happy experience of many
other nations ; it will have a great tendency to lelTen those (pecu
lations in the funds, which in difcufling the fubie&of discrimina
tion were so strongly urged as being of public detriment—for al
though negotiations in the public funds will be ever found to ex
ist, ye t the degree will be determined by the measures which go
vernment shall adopt for the support of public credit—this once
well established, will be equally known by all, and private ne
cefliti*, rather than a diffidence ot public faith, will in future cause
the alienation of public paper much below its nominal value ; by
the alfumpiion of the State debts the sinews of government will be
placed in a (ituation best calculate 4 for our future support and
protection, and draw in that direttion from which their greatest
ftren£th will result, while the danger of a division will be much
dimiriifhcd—but let me aflc the question, should one class of pub
lic cri>diio*s be now deserted, upon what ground? can government
place its expectations of future support from individuals, in cases
of need ? And that such cases will exist cannot be doubted.—The
difctifiion of the fubjett treated of in this paper naturally draws
forth the most latent feelings of the human breast—has to combat
with deepropted prejudices, State politics, personal envy, ambi
tion and avarice—while it involves in its consequences and depen
dencies, objc£ts of as much importance as perhaps may ever arrest
the attention of government.—lt is therefore not to be wondered,
that in an aflembly of freemen, it should be a long time debated,
thoroughly investigated, and fully examined in every shape and
complexion it is capable of assuming ; nor is it less to be doubted
that the result will be conformable to those principles of genuine
patriotism and liberal policy, ■Which have so often marked the
American public transaCtions, and on which depends the future
credit of tnefe United States, the refpe&ability of our national go
vernment, and perhaps our political exiftcnce.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 24, 1790.
IN committee of the whole, on the report of the Secretary of the
TreafUry. Mr. BtKWM in the chair. The afTumption
ot the Slate Debts under consideration.
Mr. StONi, after ail introduai-on nffome length, observed, that
the mcafure of assuming the State Debts is contrary to the Confti
tutiom It may be used as a mean to brjbe a State into mcafures
to answer particular purposes. He opposed it as tending to anni
hilate the State governments.
The afTumpiion of the State debts was not contemplated in the
Conftttution, the powers of the Constitution are defined ; but the
afTumption of the Debts of the States will be an accumulation of
power in the hands of the general government—powers not fup
f>of<?d to he vested in it.
Ho observed. that this business would probably terminate jn the
abolition of the State governments, as being altogether fuperfluous.
The amount ot the present aggregate of the State Debts being un
known, mayoperate unequally and very unjuttlv—efpecially when
it is considered that many of the charges arc for unauthorised ser
vice», the amount of which is involved in total uncertainty, fothat
it is a perfect hazard whether justice is done or not. He adverted
to the exertions of Maryland and-Virginia during the war; and
observed, that he thought with a gentleman from Virginia, that
when the precise exertions* ferviefs, and facrifices of the fevcral
States are fully known, the present apparent disparity in their mer
its and expences will be found to be much less than it has been sup—
Jiofed. r
He replied to the observation that the State creditors would be
facrificcd it they were not provided for by Congress. He obser
ved, that they might do them ftrift justice, if the funds which the
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS-BY JOHN FENNO, No. 9 , MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YOR K
AMERICAN US.
SATURDAY, MARCH, 13, 1790,
States have had to pay their interest from, is left to them, and they
will not be wanted for the Continent except on the idea of fund
ing theie debts. He urged the advantages Which would result to
the States, and to the creditors from the particular States raising
the revenue themselves, and this he afTerted would be done with
great ease and certainty.
Mr. Burke was in favor of the afiumption. He adverted to
the ft ate ot the debt of South Carolina, and observed, that since the
Impost wasaflumed by the Continent, it willbeutterly impolTible
w u r° £. ay thC imcrcft °/ 5 000000 of dollars, her State debt,
with respect to the weakening or annihilating the State govern
ments, if this was likely to be the cafe, it is too late to object as the
Constitution is already eftabliftied, and it is our duty to plant it in
the foil as firmly and as favorably to the liberties of the people as
pollible. He observed that on honest and just principles he must
vote for the proposition.
Mr. Sedg wick said he rose with great diffidence and confider
-3e . ncc > toexprefs his opinion, on this important fubjeft,
a iubjett on the just determination of which depended, in his opi
nion, the future happiness and welfare of this country. —That his
reluctance was founded in a consciousness that many gentlemen,
considered MafTachufetts, es having, a very particular interest
in the dccifion. But as other gentlemen had witnessed to the
sentiments, circumstances and interests, of the dates they repre
sented. he should presume to follow their example; and the ra
thcr, because by pursuing, this course, there would be exhibited
to the view and contemplation of the committee, a pretty just
pi6ture of the state, as related to the present fubjcCt of delibera-
Mr. Sedgwick declared that he liad been long and intimately
acquainted with the people of Maflachufetts, that he believed that
in no age or country, had ever existed a people, more disposed to
submit to good government, nor more confirmed in virtuous and
lnduftrious habits. I hat he had fuffered the inexpreflible pain,
of feeing this people, in arms against their own government. A
government adminidered by men annually chosen by themselves.
That the cause of this infurreftion wasthe opDrcflion under which
the citizens groaned, from the imposition of taxes, to fatisfy the
public creditors of a debt incurred merely for national purposes.
That this debt was created with the utmost economy. That the
government in the imposition of taxes, was influenced by the mod
virtuous motives of making compensation, to that meritorious
class of citizens, on whofc exertions and services, the liberties of
this country had depended, in an hour of danger. That from
our circumdances, and the nature of our government, the ftatele
giflaturcs, by whom thefc debts were contratted, were in fa£t,
and ought now to be considered, as the national agents, that
therefore the creditors of the dates, had a claim on the honor and
judice of Congress, which would be violated, if their demands
should remain unprovided for.
1 hat it had been objetted to the afTumption, that it would tend
produce a consolidation of the powers of government, by a
dedru&ion of the popularity and energy of the date governments.
In answer to this, it wasoUferved, that no member of the com
mittee, would entertain the anti-national idea, of the continuanae
of the present, inequality of burdens in the several dates.—That
all men of intelligence contemplated an adjudment of the claims
of the individual dates, as a thing indifpenfible to the preserva
tion of our national union. That whenever that desirable obje£l
wis obtained, the state debts, which were the claims of the indi
vidual dates, mud be annihilated, that therefore the evil contem
plated, if it was such, mud eventually take place.
Mr. Sedgwick observed, however, that he had never been a
srofelyte to the do&rine, that the date debts were a neceflary en
gine to the exidence of the energy or populaiity of the date go
vernments. That in his mind it was a drange and unfounded af
ertion, that the poflcflion of the affettionate regard of the people,
)y a government, depended on the neceflity of imposing grievous
•urdens. That it was true, that the state governments were in
he pofleflion and etfercife of almod all those powers by which
overnment was endeared to man. They afforded protection and
;ave security to life, liberty and properity; punished offences
njurious to foci ty ; and gave to individuals a redress for the
njuries they fuflered. They operated, therefore, only in a£ls of
>eneficence, except in the imposition of taxes, which had very
bfurdly been considered, as the foundation of their importance
ind popularity. /
r ' r - 7 •
Mr. Sedgwick then observed that the difcuflion of the propo
rtion before the committee, neceflarily involved twoqueftions.
lft, Is Congress by the principles of the conllitution, authorlf
ed to afTume the state debts.
SuDpofing the power to exist, does prudence, policy and
justice dictate the proposed measure ?
With regard to the firft of these questions, he said, it lhould be
observed ; that Congress by the constitution is authorised, to levy
money in all instances ; where in their opinion, the expenditure
lball be tor the M general welfare an answer therefore, to the
second of these questions, would determine on the firft; for if
prudence, policy and justice, di&ated theaflumption of the state
debts, it must be for the general welfare that they (hould be a(Tu
med.
" Let itthenbe enquired'* said Mr. Sedgwick for what pnrpo
fes were these debts contra&ed ? The true answer is known to all, to
fecurc the peace, liberty and independence of the United States.
Can it want demonstration, that an expence incurred for a joint
benefit, (hould be a general charge on all, in proportion to their
refpeftive abilities? By the principles of our constitution, the in
equality arising from our former (ituation, which is already so se
verely felt, and fronl the continuance of which, such enormous
mifcjiiefs are to be apprehended, is ftri&ly guarded against, and
this alteration is justly considered as one of the most important
improvements in our national system. If this equality of burden,
in a common cause, and for the support of a joint interest, is equi
table, and that it is my mind is fclf evident ; will it not un
questionably follow, that the proposition now under consideration
lhould be adopted ?
To this Mr. Scdgwick observed, it might be objettcd that by
the fettlemcnt of the accounts, of the individuals States, with the
United States, the purpoles hewifhed would be obtained.
To this he answered, that the aflumption of the State debts
would facilitate the fettlemen: of those accounts ; and indeed re
move almofl all the obfltacles, in the execution of that arduous
bufinefy. For although a State, after the aflumption takes place,
may be in such circumftancrs as to have no particular benefit, re
sulting from an ultimate adjustment of the accounts, yet it can
have no strong motive to oppose it. But that independent of the
aflumption, there are so many difficulties to be surmounted, as to
render the event, if not wholly impra&icable, at lcaft highly im
probable. He remarked, that as yet no ratio was provided for
the apportionment of the expencts of the war ; to obtain this, one
of two modes might be adopted, either id. an arbitrarv deter
mination by the legislature, or 2d. by a like determination by
commifTioncrs, who Ihould be appointed, with plenary powers
for that purpofc.— Hecrmfulturd thifc determination arbitrary,
Jvkks.
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
t, a ,';^ th r e W T "? data, from which the ratio
cv^ntnall 6 at Aether the one or the other mode fhor.ld
,r, ! y cl( &ed, it was agamik every calculation of proba
bility that it would afford universal fatisfaftio.,, ' here the,, !:> d
he m the commencement of this bufmefs w,U exist a can'e of
ailanection, whereas the traiitjuil accomplishment of n, will re
quire the molt cordial good will and all the
KTTTP- ? utf "PP° fe the ratio provided, and suppose
er, e debts and credits of the several States afcertaiued, the
insurmountable obftaclethen occurs, how shall those balances be
aajultea Here three modes of ad mimftering justice for the ex
traordinary exertions of particular States arc to be considered,
lit. by an afiumption in a manner similar to the one now propo
led—2d. by some kind of compullton to be administered to the
eiinqucnt States, and 3d. bv a voluntary contribution to the
SUtes rnoft in advance, cither by the general government or by the
individual States which were comparatively in arrear ?
He observed that he conceived it mud be obvious, from a con
templation of the fubjett that if the assumption was ever to take
place now was the proper time. That he believed no gentlemaii
would fcnoufly contemplate the execution of justice on any vi
iionary schemes of compulsion—is then, said lie we are to aban
on the proposition now before the committee for an afiumption:
it we cannot expect by compulsion to do what justice so loudly
demands, it is of the utmost importance, deliberately and candidly
to confidcr, whether we can reasonably expect the event we
to wish from voluntary contribution.
Horn our own experience, and that of others, could .we even
guess what measures would be adopted by a government, under
any given circumstances ? In the fuccefsful struggle of the United
Netherlands against the tyranny of the Spanish monarch the ne
celldry fupphes had been very unequally, furnilhed by the several
States ; those States which made the most extraordinary exertions,
had never been able to obtain any just compensation.
Mr. Sedgwick observed, that the unfortunate tranfaftion, which
Was denominated the Penobfcot expedition, had been repeatedly
mentioned. That therefore, he would take the liberty to declare,
as his opinion, that from thatcirciimftance alone, a ftmng argument
was afforded, in favor of the proposition under confidei ation. He
would not at prefent,be understood in exprefling the fentimcnts of
his constituents on this fubjeftjto declare his own. Language to the
following import was, however, the language of the well inform
ed in thcState he represented. Wc have already,experienced wkatjufl
dependence may be placed, on national engagements, when a performance
depends alone on a cool and inoperativefenfe oj honor or duty. The citi
zem of MaJJachufetts have during the war,by an unparrailelled exertion,
andjpirit of entcrprije, created a navy, which was necejjary, Jor the pro
tection of her commerce y andher extended sea coafl. This nqvy, in a fin
git day was deinolifhed, in an unfuccef jul attempt; to repel an invafioh
oj her territory, by the public enemy. Yet alt ho the payment offuch ex
pence s, was expressly provided for, by the terms on which we vJere then,
united, every application for juflicti hath been hitherto incjfetlual.
On the other hand, there were not wanting, perhaps in each of
the states, refpcftable and influential men, who considered this
claim of MafTachufetts as not only an unfounded, but an audacious
demand. That this demand would ultimately be either allowed
or rejetted ; if the latter, it would operate in that State, as a cause
ngainft voluntary contribution : If the former, it would tend to
produce the fame effe£f, perhaps in every other State.
Mr. Sedgwick further observed that the extra expence of MafTa
chufetts in raising men for thc general defence, and what fae and
her citizens had loft by the old money, Was equal to all the debt
fne now owes ; that other States too had pretentions which ap
peared to them to be equally Well-founded. Supposing, he said,
that in the ultimate settlement, justice shall be done to all, will
not the prejudices,refulting from felf-intereft, and the expectations
created by them, be disappointed ? Have not the citizens of Ame
rica been taught to believe, and do they not in fa6t suppose, that
the States to which they belong, are in advance, greatly beyond
their refpeftive proportions ? Can it be imagined, that perfect
confidence will cxift, and the public mind remain in a slate of
tranquility, when its ardent hopes and expectations shall be disap
pointed ? Will not a general belief, unfavorable to the honor and
integrity of the government prevail ? And can it be believed that
the energy of our government, or its existence, to any valuable
P u *"P°' e i can remain, under the operation of jealousy and distrust ?"
Mr. Sedgwick declared that he did verily believe, that an honest,
an equitable settlement submitted to and discharged, would ope
rate greatly in favor of MafTachufetts, and he fiippofed other gen
tlemen had the fame opinion of the States to which they belonged;
but when it was remembered, that the accounts must be fettled
by men interested, as belonging to some of the States, he believed
mould their ultimate decision be certainly right—should it even be
di&ated by the fpijrit of inspiration, the energy of the fame spirit,
would be necefTiry to induce a fubmiflion, and acquiescence thro
the United States.—Now then, he concluded, was the time, with
that magnanimity and spirit of conceflion, which would be so
honorable to ourselves, and beneficial to our country, forever to
banish the causes of jealousy and distrust.
Mr. Sedgwick observed that on this occasion it would well be
come the committee, to reflect, on the causes which had produced
a difference in the relative magnitude of the State debts; they were
lft. A difference of exertion.
2d A difference resulting from the avails derived to particular
States from confifcatcd property, and territorial acquisitions.
With regard to the fiift, it would not be urged as a reason a
gainst an assumption, because it was a strong, and an unanswera
ble argument in its favor, for no one would venture to afTert, thst
the States which had exhibited, the highest evidence of patriotifni
should fuffer beyond their neighbors, who had lefc painfully
firuggled for freedom.
With regard to the other cause of difference, confifcated pro
perty, Mr. Sedgwick requested gentlemen to reflect upon the in
fluence it would have on voluntary contribution, in instances
where it might have produced considerable effefta. On princi
ples ofjnftice said he, will gentlemen, whose States have derived,
a benefit from this source, permit me to enquire into the origin of
their right ? Against whom did the citizen of New-York offend;
who adhered to the public enemy ? Undoubtedly against united
America. If by such conduct he justly forfeited his property, to
whom should the benefit of that forleiture accrue ? To the general
government which poffefTed the rights of treaty, of peace and of
war; yet New-York who in the instance supposed, received the
whole advantage, neither commenced, prosecuted nor concluded
the war, nor had she power to do either.
Again with regard to territorial acquisitions, he asked " bv
whose exertions, were those acquisitions made ? By those of the in
dividual States ? No, but by the national force, and under na
tional dirc&ion." He added, that although the property thus
acquired, being in pui fuance of the existing compact, should be
held sacred, yet he wished gentlemen seriously to reflect, whether
it was in human nature, voluntarily to contribute, to perpetuate
an inequality arising from those source? ?—On the whole he con
cluded, that independent of the ailiunption, there was no reafoAto expect a liqnidatidn of the demands of the States, and without
the latter, he ihould despair of a continuancc ol the national
union.
Mr. Sedgwick, obfervcd that there was another very important
light in which the fubje£l might be viewed, viz. the probable
consequence which would flow from the mode or modes which
might be adopted, for the dilcharge of the state debts. II laid
he, they are left on the (boulders oPthc state legislatures, the ci
tizens will be very unequally burdened, to difchargc demands
which they will rcafonably consider as unjust. This will create or
continue invidious diftinttions between ftatcs and their citizcns.
It will further promote a spirit of emigration among the Hates,
■which fuffer the moll, which will encreafe the load, on those who
(hall remain behind, and finally, render it intolerable.
There was, he further observed, ar. evil yet unmentioned of a
nature infinitely more malignant and dangerous—that principle of
tooftility, which from this state of things, would be unavoidable,
between the national and state governments; for it was easy to
forefee that the sources of revenue, over which the two kinds of
government, had a concurrent contratt, would be seized on by
t-ach, to the oppreflion of the people and the discouragement of
industry. That hence would ensue a war of legislation, aided
on each fide, by panizans made active, by the powerful incen
tives of felf interrft ; tor there would exist an obvious opposition
of intercft, between the national and the State creditors. That
in such a state ofconfufion, theintereft of both would probably
be injured, and the very being of the government brought into
clanger.
The States, for theif own fakes, would put their debts on a foot
ing as refpettable as poflible : To do this, they mult have recourse
to direst taxes, and to duties of excise. The former would be
found inadequate to the purpose, and carried to an/ considerable
degree, would be oppreflive, unpopular, and might be dangerous.
Ifexcifes were tried, the advantages of commerce would be ren
dered very unequal in different States : Hence would arifc a mo
tive for transfering mercantile capitals from one State to another.
And he aflud, whether in this way there wasany reasonable foun
dation to hope that we Ihould become or continue a nation ?
Mr. $edwick further observed, that he fuppofedSno one would
imagine that by the adoption of a national government, any addi
tional ability, in regard to the collettion of taxes,was given to those
of the States : That it would be unneceflary to remind gentlemen
in how difgracfful a situation the securities of States now were—
constantly fluctuating, aud (hrinking from the grasp of the pub
ic creditor, they affoided only a profit and employment, to an
army of speculators, roaming from town to town and from village
to village, purchasing of the needy holder, in the moment of dif
appointmcnt, when the market was low and felling again when it
rife.*.
On the other hand said Mr. Sedgwick " the advantages of the
opposite policy are manifeft A and certain.—lt will make this go
vernment the centre of the wishes and affettions, of the property
of the countrv---and enable the government riches, to repay for
these advantages, in the encouragement it will afford, to industry
and to every ufeful improvement and occupation.—lt will termi
nate in the fuppreflionol direst taxes—lt willabolifh invidious dif
tinftions between States and their citizens—lt will fix the value of
the State securities and bring them into operation as a circulating
medium—lt will give opportunity to the States to attend to the
improvement of their internal police, and will more than any o
ther measure 1 have contemplated constitute us in fa& a nation, a
great, flourifhing and happy people."
He concluded by observing, that should any number of the
Stares fund their debts, which at this very time was attempting
by some, the difficulties in the attainment of this desirable object
would be greatly encreafed.
THURSDAY, FEP.. 25.
In committee oj the whole. The ajjumption oj the State Debts Jlill under
con ft deration.
Mr. White said he felt himfelf rather in a disagreeable situa
tion, when he rose to oppose a proportion which was countenan
ced by so many refpettable patrons. He thought the original pro
portion on the table would however be less exceptionable by the
adoption of the amendment proposed by his colleague (Mr. Madi
son) becaufc it would remove some of the difficulties that other
wise would rcfult from it.
In stating his objettions, he remarked, that if he understood the
meaning and force of the proportion, it would have this effect,
that the States who have made exertions, and nearly paid the whole
of the proportion of their federal debt, should, notwithstanding,
contribute to the payment of the delinquenres of others ; this ap
peared to him tobeuniuft. To have a tight view of the matter,
none of the Statfscould properly be conlidered as creditors of the
Union, unless they had contributed in a greater degree than was
required of them, in proportion to their wealth and number of
citizens. Toillultrate this argument, he would suppose that the
proportion of theexpence for MalTachufetts and Virginia should
each be 10,000,000, then if MaflTachufetts (hall advance 15,000000
she would be a creditor for 5,000000, whereas if Virginia should
have advanced no more than the 10,000000, than (he would have
paid no more than her just proportion, and could have no demand
on the Union. Again, if (he had advanced no more than 000000
ftie would justly owe 2,000000, which Congress could not aflume
to pay without injury to the other. He therefore thought it just,
that whatever sum might appear 011 the liquidation of the account
to have been advanced by a State beyond its equal proportion, that
that fliould be affumcd by the Union, and no other. He had also
an obje&ion to the amendment, by which a door was to be open
ed for all claims; th/s might induce the States to bring forward
claims thereby the public debt might be unduly increafcd. For
the States generally thinking themselves creditors, it would create
a jealoufv, and there would be a general searching for and admit
ing of claims, to rhe great injury of the Union. This inconven
ience he thought would result.
Other incpnvenicncies might p'occd from this circumstance ; in
fomeof the States the creditors might relufo to accept the proposal :
He thought this would be the cafe in Virginia, because in that State
their debts wefre well funded at 6 pr. cent. and the intercft regu
larly paid ; fuppoling this event to take place, what would be
the coniequence ? tne State of Virginia would have to levy taxes
to pay this intercft, and at the fame time contribute to pay that of
other States; difficulties might aiifc Qn this ground, that to him
appeared (Wious
It appeared bcthe intention of thelloufe to fund all thedebt,
and to make no arrangement lor the difchargc thereof; this he
could not approve of. Perpetuating a public debt, he did not con
ceive advantageous to any country.
Gentlemen seemed dazztfd with thefplcndor of Great Britain,
supposing her profperitv i< owing to her debts ; but the-- rcverfe
is the cafe—it was her peculiar circuniJUmc<« which ei abled her to
lupport her debts—tljather wealth and power weic owing to the
fpint and indullrv of her inhabitants—to J»cr natural advantages
of foil, climate, and situation, and to the great Security of proper
ty under a free constitution ; that however, were he an Englifh
rnan, he would tremble for the event : Sure he was, that at a per
iod not very remote, the nation must fink under the weight of the
debt, or it mutt be wiped out with a fpunge to the ruin of thou
sands.
The fnme confluence mightfollow the perpetuation of the debt
in thefeStates, though the period might be more remote. If the
States were left to thcmfclves they would pursue measures to ex
ttnguifti the debts; this was an object desirable to accomplish.
The State of Virginia he knew had cxtingujftied more than
«,coccoo of dollars of her public debt. But Virginia was not
alone, there were other States he believed, that had also effc&ed a
considerable diminution of their debts.
Jt had been urged, he fa id, as an argument in favor of the mea
sure, thaf unless these debts were a (Turned, that some of the States
would be induced to Jay and thereby put it out of the
power of the government to nife money fiotn that fouree ; hut
the excise and the impost would not do ; no adequate provision
for the payment of the intereil could be drawn from thefc lources.
The Secretary had proposed to raise the duty on various articles;
but his calculations did not reach a provision tor the State debts ;
he had only contemplated those of the Union. How then was the
State debts to be provided for ? Would Congrefslevy a land tax ?
As to raising the import, it was a measure he dreaded ; as the du
ties now flood he believed there were no attempts to evade them
by smuggling. But if they were raised, the revcrfe would take
place ; and if the people once becamc habituated to smuggling,
it would be impofiible at any future day to reform them, even by
lowering of the duties. With refpett to dire# taxes, he wiftied
the committee to consider how that would be relished throughout
the Union : He thought it would be contrary to the general sense
of the people. When they accepted the Constitution, it is true
they knew it contained a power to levy taxes ; but it was not ex
pected that this pouer would be exercised in the present fkuation
of the country. It would leflen the influence of the States : They
would be reduced a degree lower than they should be, while at
the fame time the general government would be elevated on their
ruin.' This would be unjust and impolitic. The freedom and
happiness ot America depended as elTentially on the State govern
ments as the general government —perhaps more so. It was an
interference between a State and its citizens ; and attaching them
to the general government without the consent of the State.
It had been said by a gentleman from New-York that it was
easier for one body to draw forth the resources of the community
than for a diftinft number of legiQatures—this was true ; but he
asked if it would l>e administered on the principles of freedom
and independence. Congress may be properly the supreme coun
cil, but not the supreme legislature of the United States. Their
legislative powers were circumscribed and confined to particular
obje&s. Because it might be more convenict>t, it did not follow
that Congreft should for that reason exercise such authority.
It had urged as a reason for the afTumption of tbefe debts,
that the continental securities had in general been purchased at
low rates, and had centered principally in populous cities—and
that the people would not be fatisficd to pay taxes for them, and
have their money continually drawn into these cities—unless the
State debts were adopted, whereby the taxes would go back a
gain into tbc~rcniote parts of the country.
He said he was sensible that the people would very ill brook
the payment of taxes when they saw the amount flow into the
hands of a few individuals. That he had mentioned thrs in a
former debate, and which would have been remedied had a mode
which he thought equitable to render them diffufive been adopted.
But the measure was over-ruled ; —the present he thought unjust
and therefore could not agree to it.
It had been said that the legislature of South-Carolina had de
clined making provision for her creditors, in expectation that
Congress would afTume her debts—he did not doubt the intelli
gence—but how the legislature of a State could conceive that Con
gress would afTume to pay her debts was to him extraordinary—
sure he was that Congress had never exprefled such an idea, and
he hoped that things had not yet taken that turn, that whatever
was devised in the cabinet, should be agreed to in the legislature
—No regard therefore ought to be paid to what South-Carolina
had done.
But a gentleman from Maflachufetts supposed that it would not
lessen the influence of the State governments, that, on the contrary,
it would he an advantage to them.—That it was an old do&rine,
out of debt, out of danger.—But the measure did not place the
States out of debt—they were Hill to pay it—the means of pay
ment being only put into other hands—Sir, said he, if I was in
debted on an open account, and I remain in poflfeflion of my es
tate, and was able to pay it, would it be any advantage to me to
give my creditors a mortgage on my land, and put him into im
mediate pofleflion of the profits of my eftatc. Is the cafe not ap
plicable—we do not propose to pay the debts of the States but
with their property. Is this conferring any favor ? Surely not.
He would propose, in order to bring the matter to a point, that
the assumption of the State debts fliould be confined to such parts
only as appeared to be a surplusage, that any State (ball have ad
vanced beyond its just and equal proportion of the expences in
curred in the defence of the common rights of America. This
surplusage to be ascertained on a liquidation of the account.
Mr. Lawrance observed, that it appeared to him that the result
of the plan proposed by the Secretary would be exactly what the
gentleman had in view—-He stated a particular example to (Hew
that the operation would produce the fame effect.
He therefore thought tl>e last amendment unneceflary ; but the
amendment proposed yesterday he acquiesced in, he supposed it
would meet the approbation of gentlemen in all parts of the union
—He answered the'obje&ion refpetting the importance of the
Statesretaining their debts, that the legislatures of them may meet
and have something to do, in providing for the payment of those
debts—he did not believe that it was considered by the people as
neceflary to the importance of the States, that their legislatures
fliould meet merely for this purpofc.—He answered other objec
tions refpe£ling the interference with the State governments—the
funds he had no doubt would prove fully adequate to all the purpo
ses for which theSecretaiy had designated them without any necefli
ty for direst taxes, those he trusted would be left to the States fort he
lupport of their particular governments. He concluded by ob
serving that the more he contemplated the measure, the more he
was convinced ot its propriety, its justice, and its economy—he
doubted not that every part of the union would chearfully acquiesce
in every measure th. t append to be necessary to be adopted to
piomotethe general interest.
Mr. Moore.—Mr. Chairman, said he, I cannot understand the
propofuion now on your table, in the fame light in which the
gentleman lsft up has stated it; nor can I think its effects will be
the fame with that which my colleague has now offered. If I
understand the different propositions—by the firft, <very citizen
in the United States may bring forward his certificate, and loan it
to the United States; on which he is intitled to an intcreft ; his
claim is to be alfumed and funded. The amendment proposes,
that, after an adjustment of all the claims of the States, has been
made, that Congress will assume the 'payment to each State, what
ever (he may appear to have paid, on a final settlement, more than
her jufl (hare or proportion ; but leave it to the States to pay their
refpe&ive citizens, their ciaims, in whatever mode they please.
In the one cafe, Congress only assume the balances due ; in theo
thcr they assume the whole debt. Sir, I think wc have not fuf
ficiently ascertained the amount of the debt ; this ought firft to be
done, before we alfume the payment. The Secretary has Hated to
us the supposed amount ; I make no doubt he has obtained everi
poflible information on the fubjeft. B.ut even fuppole him to be
in poircfiion of the amount of the fettled claims in all the dif
ferent States, it would not ascertain it with futficicnt certainty
It is proposed that the acts limiting the settlement of claims
(hould be repealed ; that further time (hould be given to claim
ants to come forward. Gentlemen appear impressed with the
justice ot this proposition. To what extent are they likely to be
increased ? II gentlemen will only consider the number of peti
tions that have been presented to Congress, by claimants whole
claims appear to be just, they will be fatisfied, that when the bar
to settlements is removed, many new claims will be brought for
ward, and the debt will be increased far beyond the present ftate
mcnt. Sir, before we alTume the payment, vie ought to know
that our resources are co-extensive with the demand, under every
polfible diminution that ran in the nature of things take p'ac-
Should we now assume them, and our means be inadeqtiaie to the
end, I know not of nny procedure that could more cffeflually
ruin the credit of the United States.—But mv principal obictlton
to the original proposition is. that wc shall be obliged to lav a
direfttax. What are the resources the Secretary intends propo
ang ? They oughi firft to be brought to view. I remember well
-382-
when the import bill was before us, Wcw*retoldby gentlenrn
well informed on that fubjeft, that if we increafcd the duties it
would defeat our purpose ; that if would promote .
that on foextenlive a sea coast, where we have so many harbors °it
would be impoflible to prevent it, if we raised duties so
to make it the interest of the merchant to fmu«rgle. We wer*
likewifc told, that laying the duties too high would prevent the
coniumption, and tend to defeat the revenue. Gentlemen then
brought forward every fubjett they could think of, as proper, on
which to lay a duty. I conceive thai if we aflume the entire
debt, no additional duty adequate to the payment of the interest
of the whole debt, can now be laid ; we mud lay direst taxes
A gentleman yesterday observed, that a revenue migjit be col
letted by Congress with more convenience than the States, at less
expence, and more effectually. I think we cannot lay a dire# tax
in a manner so convenient to the citizens, at so small an expence ;
or that the collection will be so effe&ual. Sir, lam of opinion
that the immediate representatives of the people in their States
can lay a tax which the people can more conveniently pay : Tliev
can accommodate not only the fubjefls of taxation, but the tunc
of payment, more to the convenience of the citizens; they are bet
ter informed of their circumstances, and their representation i 9
more equal, than in this body. Sir, I will not undertake to fay
it is unconstitutional ; but I know it is contrary to the light m
which the constitution was contemplated when it was adopted.
The words of the Constitution are, That Congress shall have pow
er to impose duties, excise, and direst taxes, to pay the debts of
the United States. I believe Congress, from the firft forming of
the confederation, held up a diftindtion between debts of the
United States, and State debts.
I have not had recourse to the journals of Congress so as to be
certain that this diftinftion has been uniformly made ; but mftan
ccscome within my knowledge which prove it. In the requisi
tions to the Slates the diftin&ion is made. The State of Virginia
from her indiscriminate mode of adjulting state and continental
claims, has been refufed a settlement of her claims against the Uni
ted States, and commiflioners are appointed to ascertain her claims
against the United States.
Sir, I think the fr3mers of the constitution contemplated the
payment of the debts of the United States only. But from our
a (Turning the State debts, they become debts of the United States,
and we are to pay them.
I remember well when the constitution was under difcuflion
in the convention of Virginia ; the power of imposing a direst
tax was warmly opposed : The advocates for its adoption, ftatrd
that requisitions weie found to be ineffe&ual—that occasions might
happen in which such a power would be necessary—that it never
would be exetcifed but in cafe of neccflity ; but we are about to
attempt it when no such neceflitv exists. If that convention had
supposed it would have been attempted at so early a day, I think
they would not yet have adopted the constitution.
Mr. Chairman, gentlemen complain that their citizens are op
pressed with taxes : They fay that from their extraordinary exer
tions during the war, they have incurred a debt far exceeding their
just proportion. I think the amendment proposed by my eoJ
league, (Mr. White,) will do them ample justice—whatever furti
they have paid over and above their jurt proportion, Congress will
pay. Leave the payment of their just proportion to themfclves ;
this is all that justice requires. In the mean time the proposition
will not reftiain us from availing ourfelvcs of every resource in
our power, and if there ttiould be a balance in our Treasury, after
paying the debts we have already affumcd, we may apply it te
the payment of the debts of the States.
(TO BE CONTINUtD.)
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10.
The committee to whom was referred the pe
tition ofGifford Dally bro't in a report which was
read, agreed to, and referred to the committee of
appropriations.
The petition of William Bedlow was read the
second time—lt was moved that it be refered to
the Pofi-Mafter-General.
This was objeifled to, as eftablifliing a bad pre
cedent ; it was said tliis is not the only instance
where public money has been made use of, in con -
sequence of which officers in this department have
become delinquent—Congress cannot interfere
in the present cafe but in a due course of law—
and if relief is now granted, the applications will
be numerous ; the course of justice will be diver
ted from its regular channel, and every public
creditor will think himfelf ill used if he should
not be indulged with a suspension of the public
demand again ft him ; fnch indulgences it was
further said, had produced very pernicious ef
fects in some of the States.
In favor of the petitioner it wat said that he had
been unexpectedly difmifled from office, and-that
he was liable to pay a very extra rent in conse
quence of engaging a house in a central situati
on to accommodate the public, in the discharge
of the duties of his office, and that it appeared
reasonable that he ihould have relief in this in-
fiance
The motion for a reference te the Pofi-Mafter-
General, was negatived.
It was then moved that it be referred to a spe
cial committee, which palled in the affirmative;
and Mr. Benfon, Mr. Fitzfimons, and Mr. Ames
were appointed.
The report of the secretary of the department
of war, on the petition of Colonel John Ely, was
read the second time ; this report was in favor
of granting the prayer of the petition ; which
was for coinpenfation for services rendered the
prifonerson Long-Island, in the capacity of fur
geon.—lt was moved that the report fliould be ac
cepted—This was objected to, it was said by Mr.
Livennore, that he did not conceive that the pe
titioner was entitled to pay in the double capa
city of a surgeon and colonel. He received his
pay as an officer in the line of the army, during
his captivity—if he had a profeffion which he
could exercise at that time, he was in a better
situation than many of his fellow prisoners ; and
probably did exercise it to his private emolument,
among the people on the Island : If he had not
been a prisoner, he could not have exercised the
profeffion of a phyllcian and a colonel at the fame
time, and draw pay in both capacities. It would
be eftabliffiing a precedent for others to apply;
and in all probability, every surgeon who wore a
commission, that happened to be taken prisoner,
will set up a similar demand—he was disposed toreimburse the petitioner for any adtual expenses
he had been at on account of medicines, but was
opposed to an acceptance of thereportin its pre
lent form.
Mr. Huntington supported the motion for an
acceptance, he observed that the petitioner by
virtue of his being a colonel, was under no obli
gation to exercise the office of a physician, and
therefore his being a colonel did not render his
demandlefs valid and just—that it would be efta
bliffiing a very bad precedent indeed, if an offi
cer ffiould not be compensated forfervices of this
kind—Mr. Huntington gave a ffiort account of
the services performed by the petitioner, from
which it appeared that his labors had been incef
f'ant, and rendered in the moftintereftingcircum
ftances, of which abundant proof was contained
in the papers that accompanied the petition.
Mr. Matthews and Mr. Burke fpoke ( of the very
important services performed by the petitioner
and said that no claim could be better founded.
The question on the motion pafled in the as
finnative, and the report was referred to Mr.
Trumbull, Mr. Matthews, and Mr. Burke—who
are inftrudted to report a bill or bills pursuant
thereto.
The blanks in the bill to promote the progress
of ufeful arts were filled up and the bill palled.
In committee of the whole on the report of the
Secretary of the Treafury—for making provision
for the support of the public credit.
The proposition, viz. To have two thirds fund
ed at an annuity or yearly interest offixper cent,
redeemable at the pleasure of the government,
by payment of the principal, and to receive the
other third in lands in the weftcrn territory, at
the rate of 20 cents per acre—was read.
It was moved by Mr. Boudinot—that the clause
refpe<sting the western territory fhoulcTTje struck
out —and proposed the following amendment in
lieu thereof—and to receive for the other third a
certificate drawing an interest of 6 per cent, per an
num, payable in ten years—which certificate Jhatl be
received as specie in payment for lands in the western
territory.
This amendment after some debate was nega
tived and the question on the proposition being
put, it palled in the affirmative.
The next proposition or alternative being read,
the principle of irredeemability contained in it
was objected to—and producing a considerable
debate, precluded a decision before the committee
role.
THURSDAY, MARCH n
Several petitions were presented and read.
In committee of the whole on the Report of the
Secretary of the I reafury, for making provision
for the support of the public credit.
The following proposition was read, viz. To
have the whole sum funded at an annuity, or
yearly interest, 'if 4 per cent, irredeemable by any
payment exceeding five dollars pr. annum, 011 ac
count both of principal and interest; and to re
ceive as a compensation for the reduction of in
terest, fifteen dollars and eighty cents, payable
in lands, as in the preceeding cafe.
The debate this day turned principally on the
irredeemable quality proposed in this alternative.
After a lengthy difcufiion the proposition was
negatived.
The next proportion was then read, and fur
ther debate ensued. The committee rose with
out coming to a decision on a motion made by Mr.
Jackson to strike out what relates to irredeema
bility in this alternative.
A second memorial from George Scriba, refpedl
ing a purchase of lands in the Western Territory,
was read.
Mr. Trumbull brought in a bill for making com
pensation to Col. John Ely, for his services, as a
Surgeon to the late army of the United States
which was read.
Mr. Wadfworili had leave of absence for four
teen days. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, MARCH 12
The bill for granting compensation to colonel
John Ely, was read thefecond time, and referred
to the committee of the whole house, to be taken
into consideration this day fortnight.
Several petitions were read ana referred.
Mr. Bland observed that private memorials
and petitions have encreaied lb much, that very
Ihortly the attention of every individual member
of the house ■will be taken up in the investigation
of the fadts set forth in those petitions, to
the great interruption of the business of the na
tion.
He therefore moved the following resolutions
in substance.
I ft. That all memorials and petitions for claims
presented to the honfe, be referred to the heads
of departments to report thereon.
}d. That the committees to whom memorials
and petitions have been referred, be discharged
from any further attention to the lame, and that
they be referred as above.—Laid on the table.
In committee of the whole on the Report of the
Secretary of the Treasury, for making provision
for the fupportof the public credit.
The third proposition or alternative was read viz.
« All To havs Sixty Six and Two Thirds Dollars funded at
(( y-aiij, .ntcreft of Six per. Cent, i,-redeemable alio by any pay
»n Four - a,, , d T , w ° th,rds D ° iijrs p" ™
<( both ot principal and interest—and to have at the end
■' a Ui'' 1 ? -«* dollars and eighcy-eight ccnts, funded
at the like mtereft, and r<ue ot redemption*
Mr Lee moved that the whole proposition
fliould be rejected—which occasioned a debate,
and the question being taken oil the motion, it
palled in the negative.
Mr. Jackson's motion for striking out fhefe
words " irredeemable also by any payment ex
ceeding four and two thirds dollars, per annum,
on account both of principal and interest," was
then read, and after some further debate, was
alio negatived.
Mr. Fitzfimons after premising some observati
ons refpecSing a more rapid extinction of the
principal, than is contemplated by the secretary,
proposed that four and two-thirds dollars should
e llruck out, in order to introduce ahigher rate
of payment per annum.—He mentioned (ix per
cent. 011 account of principal and interest.
Mr. Madison mentioned a still higher sum.
Four and two-thirds dollars after some debate
were struck out, and the proportion with the
blank pafled over.
The following propositions were rejected, viz.
4thly. To have an annuity for the remainder of life, upon
the contingency of living to a given age, not less distant than ten
years, computing interest at 4 per cent."
sthly. To have an annuity for the remainder of life, on the
contingency of the furvivordiip of the youngeftof two persons,
" computing interest in this cafe also at 4 per cent.
The Committee then rose, and the house ad
journed till To-morrow.
■ T!" d .' hate ° ur U J lu ' ,i " Tutfday, Feb. 2 3 , should have been
introduced by the prof option Jot the ajfumption 0/ the State debts.
THE GIFT OF SUBLIMITY
TO WILLY SHAKESPEARE
ON - the biforked hill, with Fame's ever-green crown'd,
Encircled with azure fercne,
Whilst the sylphs of his fancy plav'd wantonly round,
Willy Shakespeare enliven'd thefcene.
As all thoughtful he fat, kcen-ey'd Wisdom drew near,
Just sent from the regions above,
And, (looping, she whifper'd this truth in his car,
" Thy lays breathe the spirit of Jove."
To his fide came the muse oi the bowl and the blade,
To hail him great prince of her art ;
Whilst Comedy near all those dimples difplay'd,
That gave a bnfk pulse to the heart.
Bright Genius approach'd him with pleasing refpeft,
In her arms a young eagle ftie bore,
To (hew, if unshackled by icy neglcft,
To what wonderful heights she Lould soar.
Recumbent before him.straight droptthe fwcet maid,
When expanding the wing ot her bird,
11 lake the quill of Sublimity Shakespeare," she said,
i( And go falhion the tear-starting word."
To Genius he bow'd as he pluck'd forth the quill ;
To the breeze were his vellments unfurl'd ;
Like a Sun-bcain with Fancy he fled from the hill,
To charm and illumine the world.
For the good of mankind he rare precepts convey'd,
And his drains had such pow'r o'er the Ear,
That whenever he pleas'd from Ihe concourle thatflray'd,
He could call up the smile or the tear.
Old Time knew his worth—with the sigh of cfteem,
From theearth bid sweet Willy arise ;
With his Genius he fled, but has left us his theme,
Which Ola]l ever be dear to the wife.
THE TABLET,
" Why (hould an afior complain of being called from the The
atre, when he has either finiftied his part, or can carrv it on but
badly."
SHORT as the life of man is reprefunted to be,
it is still long enough for him to accomplish
all the purposes for which he was created. When
the affairs of a person are perpetually involved
in hurry and confufion, it betrays a want of sy
stem or diligence : But it is no proof he is too
circumscribed with refpedt to time. Had he
more time, or had he less to perforin, the fame
difficulty would exist, while he errs in laying his
plans,pr is dilatory in executing them. The best
systems will not succeed, when managed by indo
lent men ; nor will the inoft adtiv industry turn
to much account, where there isa defeiftof system.
It is not the quantity of buflnefs any one has to
perform that embarrafles him, for nothing can
perplex a person of method and activity.
The complaints therefore of the shortness of
life are not founded in reason. If a man has liv
ed to the age of three score years and ten, with
out having accomplilhed the main objedts that de
serve attention, no period would be long enough
to gratify his expectations. The genius of eve
ry person is limited within certain bounds, which
aremoreorlefsextenfivein different men. Those
of a narrow coinprehenfion come to their full per
fection, before they half run out their existence.
Were the life of such people limited to forty
years,they should not complain of the shortness of
it, because if it were ten times as long, they
would make 110 new attainments. There are o
ther men whose faculties are formed upon a
larger scale, and who continue to make improve
ments till they are sixty years old. But whate
ver is the period, when the talents cease to be
progressive, aman gains no advantage from living,
more delirable than he has already gained.
If a person, having pafled the middle age of
life, finds that he has acquired little honor or
property, he may generally concludt there is
-383-
■No. XCVI.
fuiiVe deficiency in his capacity or exertions. To
lac ha man length of life will bring no acquisiti
on of character or riches. Why then Ihould we
complain ol that which is in itfelf no evil > Had
human nature been so constituted, that our facul
ties did not soon arrive at their molt perfect point,
great would be the misfortune that our fublunarv
exiltence had not a longer duration, Confined
however to as small a compass as it is, if we em
ploy our moments with care and diligence, we
may fini/h our career, with joy and reputation.
NEW-YORK, MARCH 13.
A Correspondent fays,—" I Jove short Speak
ers, who hit the mark with a single ball—One
< ball thro the heart will as surely kill as a thou
sand grape /hot —"
Extratiof a letter from Boflon—March 3.
" The dispatch with which business is carried,
on in our House, as we rail it, nraft in a great men
fure be attributed to the activity and genius of
our Speaker, Gen. Cobb. His independence,
quickness of apprehension and comprehension—
his industry and attention are universally ap
plauded : And in turning a question when the
vote, has been equal, he does it with a prompti
tude and native firmnefs, which nothing but a
mind directed by right principles could inspire.
" The papers will inform you how ourlegifla
tors go on Altlio Praifegod Barebones, in his rage
of Law-Reform, has let in a flood of impertinen
ces, yet the measures adopted by the Court have
been far better than some persons wish to efFed:
elsewhere.
1 lie House lias expressed its disapprobation
of paper taxes—voted rheprodud: of the Excise to
pay the interest of the State Debt—has raised the
salaries of the Superior Judges, &c._and repea
led the Warden
There is however much anti-federalifm in
the house; and **«»has btoughtforward in the
lenate, a budget of alterations to the federal con
ltitution.—One of which is that the members of
Congress, shall depend on the legislatures of the
ltates for their pay, and the quantum ofit—blef
fed effed: of individual folly ! Tofuppofethat one
set of the fervaots of the people, ihould make
wages for another—and a higher set too !If our
legislature should adopt this mess, I hope that
Congress will fend out an amendment that the
pay of the state legislatures, shall be ftatedbv the
representatives of the union."
4 Pjj'tCommittee of both House s of the Legijlature of
Majfachafetts, have reported the following propofi
as the basis of further amendments to the Con
futation of the United States—viz.
Fir/}.-—'That Congress shall not interfere in the
regulations of the elections of its Members, ex
cept in cases, where the State Legislatures shall
neglect, or refufe to make regulations ; and that
the qualifications of Senators and Representatives
be expressly defined in the Constitution.
Second.—That Congress erecft no company with
exclulive advantages of commerce.
Third—That Congress have power to establish
a uniform rule of inhabitancy or settlement of
the poor of the different States throughout the
United States.
Fourth.—That republican forms of Govern
ment be established in the diftridis which are, or
shall be ceded to the United States.
Fifth—That Congress shall by law provide for
calling forth the pojft comitates for executing the
laws of the United State.
Sixth—That the general Government exercise
no power but what is expressly delegated.
Seventh—That a part of the internal resources
of taxation be appropriated to the United States,
and that a part thereof be exclufivelyreferved to
the refpe&ive States, with such exceptions, how
ever, and under l'uch limitations as a war and o
ther extraordinary exigencies may require.
. Eighth.—That no system for forming the mili
tia be established, and that no establishment of
troops in a time of peace, beyond a limited num
ber, be made, if disapproved by a Specified num
ber of the State Legislatures, within a limited
tune after the bills for thofepurpofesfhall belaid
before them.
Ninth,—That the Judiciary powers of the Uni.
ted States be more explicitly defined, and more
accurately distinguished from those of the refpe<9>
lve States.
Tenth.—^ That the Senate shall not possess all
the Executive and Judicial Powers now veiled in
that body.
Eleventh.—That it be left to the several States,
to make compensations to their Senators and Re-
refpediively, for their fervi'ces in
Congress.
Twelfth. —That the State Legislatures have
power to recall when they may think it expedi
ent their Federal Senators, and to fend others in
their flead—And that the Senators be chosen, all
at the fame time, and for the term of four years.
ARRIVALS, NEW YORK.
Thursday
Friday.
Sloop Rambler, Rogers, Edenton (N. C.) 10 days.
Schooner Hetty, Peebe, Chariefton, 21 days,
Ship Union Dekay, that was a Ihore on the East
bank, is arrived at this port with the loss of her Rudder and other
imall damage.
Cast. Cook arrived off Georgetown-Bar Ftb. A 3 , and landed his tip.
i wth the loss oj hn horjer and cargo on dept.FDR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
A CITIZEN of the State of Maryland, having been most
virulently traduced,and Fullered the fevcrelt treatment
from the liberty,or lather licentiousness of the Prels, is induced to
requcll an infertiou of the following piece on that important lub
je£t in your paper. It was firft publilhed with a little variation
in Philadelphia ;'and is thecompofitionof a gentleman,refpeftable
for his humanity and knowledge of the laws ot his country. Its
appearance at this time, may be ol some use, and point out to our
Citizens, the true nature of that liberty, which ought not to destroy,
tut rather protefl their good name and civil rights.
There is no onewilhes more fuceefs to the effort! of ingenious ana
industrious men, employed in the printing business than myfelf;
at the fame time, I do not conceive that because a printeris in pof
ielicln of a printing apparatus, he can therefore have an abfolut*
power over the reputation of any of his fellow Citizens in private
life ; and wheneverhe pleases, or an ill motive may influence, hold
them up, as the objeftsof fcorri to the derision of mankind. This,
instead of making the press a blelfing, would render it the baneof
t'.ie community, and justly the dread of every good man. That
the printers ot this continent may ever use their liberty with ho
nor and dignity, and not as a cloak ol maliciousness, is the sincere
wilh, of, Sir, your obedient servant,
A CITIZIN OF THE St AT Z OP MARYLAND.
Baltimore, Feb. 23, 1790.
ON THK LIBERTY OF THE PRESS.
'""T'HAT the liberty of the Press ought to be
X invariably preserved." Declar. Rights,
State of Maryland, fell. 38.
THE desire of Liberty is deeply implanted in
the bread of every man ; however this may be
fupprefied for a time by the trammels of a flavifli
education, or the dread of a tyrant, when an op
portunity occurs, it will infallibly exert itfelf.—
Those who have once experienced the b)efTings
of Liberty, know how to prize them, and have
uled every means to preserve them. In Athens,
popular Oratory, Oltracifin, and the satirical per
formances of their comic authors, were the fafe
guards of liberty. In Rome, the negative which
the people had a right to exercise upon the de
crees of the Senate, and the powerful authority
of their tribunes in that body, fufficed for a while
to retain to the people their Rights. Since the
invention of the eminently ufeful Art of Print
ing, the Press has become a powerful agent in the
cause of liberty. The influence which this pof
fefles over the minds of the people is so well
known, thatdefpots have uniformly refufed it the
privilege of meddling with public affairs. Their
mandates are to be treated with silent refpe<ft and
obedience ; but the propriety, or impropriety,
of them is never to be matter of difcullion. In
free governments, the liberty of the Press has
been l'ecured either by the fundamental principles
of the Conititution, or by subsequent laws. Noth •
ing can more conduce to keep rulers fromfwerv
ing from their duty, and from assuming uncon
stitutional powers, than the fear of having their
evil deeds expofecl to their constituents, through
the medium of a Free Press. By this, enlighten
ed and ingenious individuals have ample oppor
tunity afforded them of giving ufeful hints, upon
which the Legislature may afterwards improve.
The proceedings of the different departments
of government may be fairly and impartially dis
cussed ; and any in vafion of our civil and religious
rights, may be pointed out, and the alarm found-
to call forth the People in their defence. If
the liberty of the Press were confined to this, it
would well deserve the protection of the laws.
But alas ! Human inftitntions are too liable toa
btife. Even the greatelt bleflings are too apt to
be converted into evils. Civil liberty carried to
excess becomes licentiousness and anarchy ; reli
gious liberty has been productive of infidelity ;
and the liberty of the press, the sole object
OF WHICH SHOULD BE THE PRESERVATION OK
civil and religious rights, has been profti
tutedtothe purposes of private enmity and spite.
Spleenful dispositions have employed it, to vent
their malice upon their innocent neighbors ; tur
bulent characters have made a (talking horse of it,
from behind which,they have|fhot their envenom
ed arrows,againft the peace of the community. If
a man entertains, even an unwarrantable dislike
against his neighbour, he lays hold of his foibles,
(and who has them not ?) to render him odious
or ridiculous,in the eyes,of bis fellow citizens. If
he, however erroneously, conceives an idea that
his neighbour is addicted to any notorious vice,
he makes use of the freedom, or rather licenti
ousness of the press, to represent him in the most
disgusting colours to the public. Thus the press,
which ought to protect the rights and reputation
of a citizen, becomes the inilrument of his dis
grace and ruin.
Are there no means by which this licentious
ness maybe reftrainedwithin due bounds ? Un
doubtedly there ace. The line between liberty
and licentiousness may be drawn with accuracy,
"liberty," fays the French conititution, " confifls
in doing any thing which is not injurious to
another" —Whatever exceeds these b iiinds, what
ever tends to disturb the public tranquility, or deflroy
the pence of families, whatever blackens the character
of individuals, or ruins the reputation oj private citi
ztns, let the author of it, give it what name they will,
is certainly infamous licentiousness, andfhottld be pu
uifhed by law as much as burglary, or any other spe
cies of felony. Shall laws provide for the fafety of
the corporeal part of our system, and entirely neg
lecfi "that peace of mind which pafleth all under
flanding ?"—Shall a poor wretch who deprives
me of a glittering piece of metal, which I can as
well do without, bepunifhed with death, or per
petual infamy ; and shall he who robs me of my
reputation, more valuable than all the lilver in
the Mines of Peru, go nnpunifhed i The immor
tal Sliakefpeare pathetically exclaims,
■ — ■" Good name in man or woman
" Is the immediate jewel oj the foul;
" WhoJleals my purfe,Jleals trajh ;' tij Something—not'ting
41 'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been (lave to thousands ;
" But he that filches from me my good name,
" Robs me of that which not enriches him,
" And makes me poor indeed.''
(To be continued.)
PHILADELPHIA, March 3.
A correspondent wishes us to recommend to our
country readers the railing of Summer Barley,
and, it to begot,SuMMER Wheat,this year. The
great prices of grain renders it very desirable
that our Farmers ihould seize this golden
Opportunity ; andas there is likely to be grea
ter duties upon spirits, rum and wines, Summer
Barley is particularly worth attention. Beer and
cyder pay no duties, wherefore barley and orch
ards must be more profitable than in past years.
Hops also mult be remembered.
Extrafl of a letter from Havre de Grace, to a gentleman in this city
j.a.j n.. _ _ - o„
dated Dec. 23, 1789.
" The ftiip Pcnnfylvania, being detained here by contrary
winds, will convey you this letter.
" Since my last of the sth instant the prices of flour are lowered
very much ; thofeprovifions which a month before were so scarce,
are so abundant at present that they seem toarife out of the ground ;
therefore we thought it proper for your intcreft and your govern
ment to inform you of thae revolution.
41 M. Necker wrote us lately taht he had given considerable orders
on flour in America, but that he, at the fame time, had limited
the prices ot purchase, so that it would not cost our government
more than 30s. sterling per barrel, free of expenses, and to be
delivered in France. This may serve you as a rule if you make any
ftiipmcnts in that article to France."
BOSTON, March 3.
Extratt of a letter from a gen tleman -who was latch
.» y» r
in the Cenefee country
" One curiosity was a Brimjlone Spring, which
iil'ues from two places about two rods apart, about
twenty rods from the bottom of a large hill,
where it comes through apertures about five or
fix inches in diameter, and perfectly round, de
fending like a fwift brook ; there is a glade about
four rods wide from the springs down to the bot
tom of the hill, which is quite clear, all the
bushes, if ever there were any, are gone, and
there is not much foil, it is rather a rock of divers
colours, and all the way in or near the water,
and on every level fpotthereisbrimilonein some
places 10 or 15 inches deep."
POUGHKEEPSIE, February 23
NATURAL HISTORY.
In Ulster county in the state of New-York, on
an island in the Neverfink Creek, nearly in the
latitude, of 41 $0 North, a Mr. Baker in the begin
ning of the month of March lall, having cut down
a large hollow beach tree, to his surprise, found
the cavity in the tree, nearly filled with the com
mon barn swallows of this country, in quantity
(by his estimation) nearly two barrels. They
were in a torpid state ; but carrying some of those
which were not injured by the fall of the tree,
near a fire, they were presently re-animated by
the warmrh, and took the wing with their usual
agility.—This may be depended on as a fadl.
NEW-LONDON, March 5
Whoever attempts in the least to defraud the
government of whatever has been granted for the
public service by the laws, is not only utterly un
worthy to receive the smallest benefit from those
laws, but is likewise ail enemy to his country.
The moment he endeavours to cheat the general
revenue of those duties which were set apart for
the general good, that moment he endeavours to
undermine the very basis of the public security ;
to reduce his fellow fubjeifts to aftate of wretched
jiefs and (lavery, and do his part to distress his
Country.
SPRINGFIELD, March 3,
On Saturday, were conveyed through this town,
for New-York, under a strong guard, two brothers
by the name of Crane, who were lately taken
up in the county of Worcester for altering, forg
ing and palling notes in imitation of the final set
tlements, so called : These perfon3 have been so
long concerned in the business of counterfeiting
paper securities of every kind, both public and
private, and have acquired so great a degree of
Ikill and dexterity in it, as to be able to impose
very often on the most wary. They have at dif
ferent times appeared in the different drefles of
the gentleman and the beggar, as the occasion
might require ; —when lately apprehended, they
were genteelly drefled, and palled by the name
of Smith : They have often defied the arm of au
thority, boasting of powerful connexions which
they were allured would buy them out of trou
ble —they have often eluded the ftridteft search
of those who had been injured by them, but are
now in a fair way to meet with a due reward for
their services.
G-3 Wanted by the Editor cj this paptr, a Houjt that will ac
commodate a Icirgtjnnily, and tUprmtlrg faJincfs—ifromthejrJlof
Mily ntr.t.
-384-
PRICE GURREAT. —> — /V£tV. YORK.
MARC
JAMAICA Spirits, 5/6.
Antigua Rum, a SJ.
St. Croix, do. 4/8.
Country, do. 3/.
Molalfes, if 2.
Brandy, 6f6. a 6f^.
Geneva, s fi
Do. in cases, 28f. a zgf.
Muscovado Sugar, 80/. a ",if
Loaf, do. \f§.
Lump, do. 1/IJ.
Pe pp cr . 3/3
Pimento, \f.a\f\.
Coffee, a \j 8.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3f. a 6f.
Do. French, 18/7
Rice, 21s.
Superfine Flour, 6of.
Common do. jif.
Rye do. 26f. a 28f.
Indian Meal, 18[ iof-
Rye, 4/9. pr. bujh.
Wheat, 10/6.
Corn, (Southern) \f.
Do. (Northern,) 4/3. a '\[6.
Beef, firft quality, 4s[ a 48\f.
Pork, firft quality, 70s a 75/ I
Oatt, 1/7.
Flax-feed, $fg a 6f
Ship bread per cwt. 2if.
Country refined ) ,
bar-iron, \ > 81 - " 3°'-
Do. bloomery, 251. a 261. „
Swedes do. 451,
Rulfia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 1 of. a 91.
German steel, gJ.per lb.
Nails American, by calk. ) 1 j
per. lb. 4d. >
Do. do. do. 6d. 12d.
Do. do. do. Bd. 9fad.
Do. do. do. iod.}
Do. do. do' i2d.f 1 j q1 1
Do. do. do. 2od.^' 72
Do. do. do," 24d.)
Pot a(h, per ton, 391. a 401.
Pearl ash, 481 a 501.
Bees-wax per lb. 2f
Mackarel per barr. 26f. a 30f.
Herrings, 18f.
Mahogany, Jamaica, { ,
per foot, J
Dominico, do. 9d.
Honduras, do. yd.
Logwood unchipped,pr.ton. 81.
Do. chipped. 141.
2 iQch white oak ) . -
plank, perm. J
1 inch do. 51.
2 inch white pine plank, 81.
inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 31. \of
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
inch do. 6r. lof.
1 inch do. 41.
Pitch pine scantling, 31. 8[
Cyprus 2 feet (hingles, xl. 10f.
Do. 22 inch do. il. B\f.
Cedar 2 inch do. 11. 10f
THIS DAY IS "PUBLISHED,
(Price Six Shillings, bound and lettered)
And to be fold, by appointment of the Author, by Messrs. Berr.v
and Rogers, No. 35, by A. M'Lean, No. 41, (Franklin's
Head) Hanover Square, and by the Editor hereof, No. 9, Mai
den-Lane,
GEOGRAPHY MADE EASY :
BEING AN ABRIDGEMENT OF THE
AMERICAN GEOGRAPHY.
CONTAINING,
AS! RONOMICAL Geography : Discovery and General D«-
fcription of America: General View of the United States :
Particular Accounts of the Thirteen United States, in regard to
their Boundaries, Extent, Rivers, Lakes, Mountains, Produc
tions, Population, Characters, Government, Trade, Manufac
tures, Curiosities, History, &c.
TO WHICH IS ADDED). I
A Geographical Account of the European fettlcments in Ame
rica ; and of Europe, Asia, and Africa.
Illustrated with eight neat MAPS and CUTS.
Calculated peculiarly for the use of Schools in the United States.
BY J ED ID I AH MORSE, A. M.
Minister of the Congregation in Charleftown, near Boston.
Second Editon. Abridged by the Author.
A aiork which has long been wanted, to accomnudate Schools j and
for theufe of childrtn infamilies, Geography now claims a vfryge
neral attention—and that of our country in a particular manner; for
in proportion as this is underflood it will inspire the rifinggeneraiim
with elevated ideas of their own charader, when contemplating the mag
nificent theatre on which they are to a£l the parts ajjigned them: Hetu
the propriety of the obfervation —
Let all foreign climes alone,
Till you understand your own.
To be SOLD,
At PUBLIC AUCTION, on the First Day of Atril next, (if
not disposed of before, at Private Sale.)
' I "'HAT pleasant and valuable Place formerly cal-
A led COLES-FERRY, now by the name of VAN DUZER'S,
on Staten Island, Richmond County, with two good fufficient
Pettiaugers for the ferrying business. It is a beautiful situation,
and one of the best stands for a Ferry, or Tavern, on Staten-Ifland,
and an excellent Shad and Herring Fishery within 20 yards of the
door, Black-Filh, and all other kind of Fish in their season. It
is likewise the best and most convenient Ferry to Long-Island,
where a number of palfengerspafs and repafs. It lies within two
milesofthe Pointof the Narrows, and between 8 and 9 miles from
New-York. There is about go acres of excellent good Land, chief
ly Meadow, with a very good Wharf, House, Barn and Garden —
tha whole being in good repair. It will alio make a beautiful
Country Seat, fit for any gentleman.
For Particulars enquire of John Anderson, corner of the
Exchange, or Charles M'Lean, White Hall, New-York, or
of Messrs By erss and Rei l ly, Statea-Ifland, or of theSubfcri
ber on the premises, where the conditions of sale will be made
known. ABRAHAM VANDUZER.
Staten-Ifland, March 6, 1790.
To be L E T,
And poffeflion given the tft of April, for one or mote years, (two
miles and half from this city, on the Greenwich road,)
'T'HAT New TWO STORY HOUSE—four
-*■ Roomi on a floor ; vrith fix fireplaces; a new Barn, and
Well of excellent Water ; ;i young Orchard of Fruit Trees, with
75 acres of Land, themoft part Meadow. For particulars enquire
at No. 7, Maiden-Lane, Ncw-Ycrk. February 2c.
■ H 13. Dollars at Bs.
Do. 23 inch do. il. fij.
Do. 18. inch do. jßf
Butt white oak Haves, icT
Pipe do. do. gl. J
Hogflread do. do. 61. 10f.
Do. do. heading, 81.
Iriih barrel do.' (laves, 31. tf
Hoglhead red oak do. d «/"
Do. French do. 4 1. '
Hogshead hoops, 41.
Whiteoak square timber )
per square foot, \ :
Red wood, per ton, 28!.
Fuftick, 10!.
Beaver, per lb. 1 tf. a 16/.
Ott. r per Ikin,
Greyfox, 4/7.
Martin, 4_/tO.
Racoon, 3/6 «i jf&."
Mufkrat, 1 od. a 1 ,{d.
Beaver hats, 64/
Castor do. 48f.
Chocolate, 14 d.
Cocoa, 7c)f. a. 80s.
Cotton, lfg.
Tar, pr. bar. 10/.
Pitch, 14/
Turpentine, 18/. <120/
Tobacco, James River, id. aiW.
Do. York, 41i. a 3>rf.
Do. Rappahanock, id a 3
Do. Maryland, coloured,
Do. Wcftern-fhore, zd a
Lead in pigs, p r C wt. 60/f
Do. bars, 68f.
Do. Shot, 68/
Red lead, 68/7
White do. dry, 95/
White do. in oil, 5 1. 12 /
Salt-pet re hams, jfcd.
Spermaceti candles, g/
Mould do. nd. a \J.
Tallow dipt, gfed.
Soap, s d. a BJ.
Cailile soap, gd. a tod.
Englilh cheese, pr. lb. 15i
Country do. $d.
Butter, 1/
Hyson tea, gft. a icif.
Sequin d«. 6/6.
Bohea do. 2/8. a ?/g
Ginseng, if. a 2/6.
Starch Poland, 7d.
Snuff, 2
Allum fait, water mea- \
sure, pr. buffi. { 3J»-
Liverpool do. 2/
Madeira wine, ) r , f
pr. pipe, { 60/ ' " 9«-
Port, 46/.
Lisbon, pr. gal. ej\
Teneriff, 4 /."
3j, 3-
Dutch gun-powder,pr. cwt. 8/.
Nail rods, pr. ton, 34/. 36/:
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal. 4f.
Whale do. nr. barrel, 50/! <156/*.
Spermaceti do, 61.
Shake-down hhds. 3^6