[No. XCVII.]
THE TABLET
No. XCVII
" D sceit difcovtrs a little mind, -which flops at tem
porary expedients without rising to tomprehenflve views
oj conduß."
WE often meet with persons who wilh to pals
themselves off upon the world, forfome
thing different from what they really are. Per
haps there are few people who, in all situations,
are contented to be viewed in their true colors.
Deception, however, will sooner or later betray
itfelf ; and 110 mask can be specious enough to
prevent the characters of men from being ulti
mately tried by a genuine standard. Low cun
ping may tempt men into artifices that produce
iome temporary advantages ; but such people
soon finifh their career of fame and influence. A
of mere cunning takes but a narrow view of
the causes that lead to real prosperity. He ima
gines he has an acute discernment, and commen
ces his plans of intrigue with alluring hopes of
success. But fortunately for mankind, it gener
ally happens, that before he has done hitnfelf
much good, or others much hurt, he is entangled
jn a web of his own weaving.
There is a strange propensity in men to occu
py a respectable ftatiou in lite, in some easier way,
than by deserving it. l"o rife gradually into dif
tinftion by regular steps of merit, does not com
port with the ardor and impatience of an enter
prising spirit. It is presumed by ambitious men
that ri more expeditious mode may be adopted,
qrid that they may accelerate their object by
putting on fallacious appearances. His head mult
be weak, who does not forefee the effect of such
disguise ; ajid his heart must be perverse, who
does no! detest the practice of it. When a per
son, on his firft setting out in life, aflumes a falfe
character, it is a proof, either, that he has not
confidence iji his real one, or that he has a native
predilection for duplicity. Candor and sincer
ity arc the only fafe ground, on which any one can
tread, who means topreferve the refpetft and good
will ot his fellowmen. He may, to be sure cap
tivate attention, and even gain some confidence
and esteem by an artificial glare of conduct. But
I appeal to the experience of every pcrfon who
ever tried to promote his views, by tricks of cun
ning, and language of insincerity, whether he did
not find that the end of all his efforts was disqui
etude and disgrace. No prudent man would ven
ture, 3nd no honorable man would wifli a repu
tation so degrading and precarious.
Itisimpolnblein thenatureof things,that there
should not be a want of cqnfiftency in the acftions
of a man, whej commences his course in fallhood.
There are perplexities unavoidably attending
every departure from truth, which will expose
men, in ipite of the moll artful coloring, with
which traulacftions of deceit can be glofleci. The
moment a man relinquiflies truth and fair-dealing
as a guide, he has nothing certain to direct his
steps. Fof, when he is reduced to a Ibift, that re
quires a disavowal of his real motives, he must
soon fall into contradictions. There is not dex
terity enough in the faculties of the most saga
cious man, to pursue a long course of duplicity,
undifcoveted. It is true some dark, mysterious
men retain through life a considerable degree of
influence* But it should be remembered these
are generally a paflive kind of characters, who
rather may be said, not to acft, at all, than to act
infiiicerejv. They learn, by concealing their ac
tual defects, a prudent line of demeanor that is a
substitute for valuable qualifications. This ne
gative reputation can be no desirable object for
a of vigor and enterprize.
Thole who are ambitious to make a respectable
figure ii| society, and take an active part in the
momentous affairs of the world, lhould have too
much spirit to be fatisfied with a negative cha
racter, and too much honesty to wear a disguised
one. They must riot Ihrink from that fcru'.iny
which exhjbitstheir qualities intjieir most natur
al fjiades. If they will bear the examination of
'trufhand reason, there is no danger but they will
ultimately rife into diftinguilhed notice. A man
destitute of intrinsic worth, can not know himfelf
too soon ; for if he is destined to move in the in
ferior walks of life, it can be no consolation to
him that he had artfully or accidentally reached
a confpicuoys station, which was beyond the
lphere of his merit. I cannot close this number
better than by presenting the reader with an ex
trad: front an elegant author, whose remarks on
this fubjecft are fpriglnly a,nd pertinent.
" That darkness of charaifter, where we can
f4 fee no li^art—thofe foldings of art through
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYSIV^ —
UAYS BY 3° m fENNO, No. 9l MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK,
WEDNESDAY, MARCH, 17, , 790 .
which no native affedlion is allowed to pene
u ' rate ».,P r^f en t an objedt unamiablc in every fea
<t if" ° 'ut Particularly odious in youth.—
it at an age when the heart is warm, when the
<< en '? tl ° ns are strong, and where nature is ex
u P e , e „t° fliew itfelf free and open, we canal
it rj y. e deceive, what is to be expe<ft
i( e > w hen we shall be longer hackneyed in the
n a y s me J l , when interest shall have com-
pieted the obduracy of our hearts, and exper
lence fliall have improved us in all the arts of
guile I"
ADDRESSof the SOCIETY of the CINCINNATI in the State of
SOUTH-CAROLINA.
VOTEP NOVEMBER 17, 1780.
To GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prudent oj United States.
u 1 A,
POSSESSED of every feeling that can ast on grateful hearts,
A the Society of the Cincinnati eftablifiied in the State of South-
Carolma, beg leave to congratulate you on the happy occasion
which has once again placed you in a situation of rendering gene
ral good to their country.
Retired from the buly scenes of life, to reap the rewards of your
virtuous atts, and to enjoy the glory you had already obtained,
your lellow-citizens received you with exulting happiness ; they
law in you thcpatriot-hcro,the friend and saviour of their country •
and with hearts filled with gratitude and affeflion, they invoked
the Allwife-Dilpofer of human events to render that retirement
happy.
The period, however, arrived when the abilities of the virtuous
patriot were again to be called forth to assume a public charattcr.
A general political government was formed, by which the hap
piness of the country for whose liberty you had fought, was now
to be eftabli thed. To preside at the head of this new government,
to eltablifh it with permanency, the people fought, in the Great
Wajhingtm, the virtues on which they could rely with fafety, and
from which they might expefl to receive every benefit without al
loy. They had experienced his abilities, they had experienced
his integrity and his inviolable love for his country. Nor did
they seek in vain. The fame noble spirit which actuated you at
the beginning of our late contest with Great-Britain,now operated.
—You received and obeyed the summons; and although you
should make a facrifice, yet you nobly determined—lt was the
voice of your country, in whofefervice every inferior consideration
of cafe and retirement must give place.
As citizcns, we congratulate you, Sir, on this additional proof
of your country's confidence. As soldiers who partook with you
in mapy of the dangers and hardships which attended the general
army under your command, we beg leave to i:xprefs our warmest
attachment to your person, and fincereft wi(h for your happiness
and honor ; and that we may, under your rule, supported by your
amiable virtues, happily experience and long enjoy the fruits of
of a government which nas for its bafts, the GOOD of the PEO
PLE of AMERICA. By order of the Society,
(Signed) WILLIAM MOULTRIE, Prejidcnt.
The PRESIDENT'S ANSWER.
To the STATE SOCIETY of the CINCINNATI in South-Carolina,
GENTLEMEN,
FROM a convittion that the dispositions of the society of the Cincinnati
eflablifhed in the State of South-Carolina are peculiarly friendly to
me, I cannot receive their congratulations on the occasion which gave
birth to their address, without emotions of peculiar fatisJaQion.
The interejl that my fellow-citizens so kindly took in the happinef
which they Jaw me enjoy in my retirement after the war, is rather to be
attributed ta their great partiality in my favor, than to any singular title
I had to their gratitude and ajfcaion.
Notwithflanding I was conscious that my abilities had been too highly
appreciated : yet I felt, that, whatever they were, my country had a
jujl claim upon me, whenever the exercise of them should be deemed con
ducive to its welfare. With such feelings, I could not refujeto obey that
voice which 1 had always been accuflomed to rejpefl, nor hesitate to forego
a rofohition which I had formed of passing the remainder of my days in
retirement. Andfo far am I from having reason to repent of the decided
measure 1 took, in thecrijis of organizing a new general government, that
I ought rather, perhaps, to felicitate ihyfjtf upon having met the wishes,
and experienced the afjijlance of a patriotic and enlightened people, in
my arduous undertaking.
Always fatisfcd that I jhould be supported in the adminiflration of
my office, by the friends of good government in general, 1 counted upon
the favorable sentiment and condufl of the officers of the late army in par
ticular. Nor has my expettation been deceived. As they were formerly
diflingufhed by their eminent fortitude and patriotism in their military
I'fervice, during the mojl trying occajions, so are thefame men now, min
gled in the mass of citizens, conspicuous for a difinterejied love of order,
and a jealous attention to the preservation of the rights of mankind. Nor
I is it conceivable that any members of the community should be more wor
' of the enjoyment of liberty, or more zealous to perpetuate its duration,
; than those who have so nobly and so fuccefsfully defended its flandara in
| the new world.
I Jincere/j thank you, Gentlemen, for your expression of attachment to
m y P cr f<> n i an d vvifh for my happiness and honor. On my part, I only
dare to engage, itjhall he my incejfant fludy, that you may happily ex
perience and long enjoy the fruits of a government, which has for its
1 bafts the good jof the American people. G. WASHINGTON.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY, FEB. 2j, 1790.
IN Committee of the whole House—The proposition foraffum
ing the State Debts and the amendments proposed thereto by
Mr. White, being under confederation.
(continued.)
Mr. Gerry in a speech of some length, combated the prin
ciple on which the motion was founded—it contemplated, he
fiid, the debts in question as the debts of the states, while in fafi
they were the debts of the United States; for the states had con
t rafted the debts as agents of the union—and it was well known,
that a debt ccntrattcd by an agent was as binding on, as though
it had been done by the principal; it being an eftabliflied max
im, " qui facit per alium facit per fe," there can be no diftin&ion
in equity then between a debt contracted by Congress, its quartei
maftcrs, or other purchasing officers, and by a state employed by
Congress; the creditors in each cafe being the creditors of the uni
on. Mr. Gerry said, he had before dated, that the firft armv,
although federal, was raised, supplied and paid by the. Hates, till
lit was commanded by continental officers—that the states, on the
£>HU$.
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
pav of'thr " n k Ul j' S r had made S°<?d 'he depreciation of the
at the fr '<J ut "n'ly fupplicd and recruited it, had
taking i, c g ' 3,rumcd - the debts of the union, bv
caving iL CC n £ Ca u S r° P" made by federal officers by
the federal debt, and by various other modes,
ed to the a cnn, yj van >a) if he was not mifmformed, had ailum
her ri , "i ° fivC m ' llion dolla,s ° f ,h <-' federal debt due to
then are = nd ,P lac^. th « sum on the date funds. As the Hates
paid bv th, IT '1% C ' r ? ltlze,>s ' oughtnof these in equity to be
the n ,L n , j , ta ' es ' for P ro P en y tllU ' Applied them ? When
the M . d " K ' the laltCrhad »" 'he resources oF
taxation" f 7u , th ' ,mpo ''' exciff - a »d sole right of duett
thev rnnM'though Congress had the power of taxing states,
from t° g ° n " fanh 1 er ' and that power could not be excrcifed
drr a no" C T"' °/ a , rul = of apportionment required by the confe
oronrr, ca ? 'he states could not form an estimate of their
property as required by that compact : It mult therefore be evi
on ln!il entrusted 'he states with fuppHes for the uni
lut'ion » C /" am state refourccs ' and fa y the late revo
' ,n thc °f government, these resources are by the uni.
on in part alienated from the states to the fedetal government
' IC '' ! s the cafe ot the impost ; and as Congress are now extend
thfft | ,f taxa,,on > to another part, the excise, on which resources
7 cd,tors P»ncipally depended, Congress are bound in
.rIA V" . < ? U " y to P rovide f or the payment of these debts con.
tatted, attherequeft and for the benefit of the United Stales.
1 hey are bona fide debts of the union, and only differ from the
j debt "> theform of the negociation; perhaps it
may Be laid, that the creditors having considered the states asdeb
-100, have no legal claim against the Uniied States. But should
„ ."1" a 3 " P^ n *" C ' l an un j u ft an d ungenerous principle, would
not the state creditors have reason to consider the whole as a state
trick, or juggle to defraud them of their dues? And would thev
ever after rely on the faith of Congress? There can be no good
realon then for the afTertion, that the states can only be creditors
or in other words, that their debts can be only alTumed, accord
"f ! he Proportions of the balances that may be due to them
retpeflively on a final liquidation. Mr. Gerry said, thc gentle
man White) had observed, that by adopting thc firft amend
ment we should again open the door for state claims ; that if it
mould[remain shut, perhaps some fnjuftice would take place, but
it the doors should again be opened, there A-ould be great uneafi
n among some of the states. I n answer to this Mr. Gerry con
ceived, that the states considered justice as the basis of their system
ot policy, and would never be opposed to a measure that would
prevent injustice. If however, he was mistaken in this point; if
i le foundations of the state and federal governments were not laid
in juiticr, he thought their career would be but thort; but he had
no apprehenhons of this kind.
He observed, that Mr. White had said, in cafe of an adempti
on, lome fta[e creditors may accede to it, and others not; that of
the latter number would probably be the citizens of Virginia, in
which cafc (he must pay herown creditors, and contribute to the
payment of the debts assumed by the union. But where is the
difficulty, fay, Mr Gerry, in this cafe? Congrcfs, considering
the Itate creditors of Virginia ascreditors of the union, will pro-
Vide for them as for other federal creditors. And it will make
no difference to the creditors, to the (late, or to Congress, whether
the latter pays the inttreft to the state, and the state to the credi
tors, or whether Congress pays it direflly to the creditors. This
seems too clear to be denied.
The gentleman has said, if the debts are assumed, Congress will
fund, but not discharge them ; whereas the dates will'do both.
How, fays Mr. Gerry, does it appear that Congress will be less
dupofed than the states, to pay off the public debt ? The secretary
in his report has an eye to a finking fund ; and there is no doubt
of every exertion on the part of the uaion, to difchargc the debt.
True it is, the states, with the impost and excise, have made fomc
progress in this buftnefs ; but deprived of those resources, there
will be less profpeft of the debts being paid by the states, than by
the United States* The debts of the states will now accumulate,
as the federal debt did Whilst the states had those refourccs.
The gentleman fays, that if all the revenue from impost and eX
cise 1] thrown into our hands, it will not be adequate, and we
must resort to direa taxes, which would meet the disapprobation
of all the States. But in answer to this, Mr. Gerry observed. that
we have but little experience of the avails of the impost, and none
of the excise, and can therefore form no judgment how far they
are capable of improvement. One thing we know, that the im
post is greatly injured by the State administration of cxcife, and we
also know that the latter is eluded in a great meafureineach State; f<*
that under the federal administration of impost and excise, both
would probably be much increased*
Mr. Gerry then mentioned the defalcations of eJccife • that the
colleflion of it was generally supposed in Mafiachufetts, not to
exceed 25 per cent, of what ought to be the amount,and liated the
manner in which the payment of it was eluded. It is impoflible,
therefore, fays he, at this time to determine whether those resour
ces are or are not equal to the funds required. But suppose they
are not, how does it appearthat the States will be uneasy at direst
taxation, if it is necelTary to support public credit ? I consider
public credit as. tile main pillar of the government. If it is well
established it will be more valuable than the mines of Peru ; for it
will command what resources you may want—and those can do
no more : it will also command the confidence and attachment of:
your bed citizens, which will be infinitely more valuable—will
strengthen ) our government, and make it: mmoveable. A govern
ment founded in juflice is so great a bleflirtg as that enlightened
citizens, like those of the United States, will not only contribute
then property, but will risk every thing in support of such a go
vernment. Mines may enable a government to procure an army
of mercenaries but the power of these is not to he compared with
that of good citizens, a£ling from principled It cannot therefore
be doubted, that if dire& taxes are necelTary to pay the just debtj
of the Union, and to support its credit, the citizens will submit
to it.
Ifwe refer to the propositions of the States for amending th<*
constitution, there is nothing in them that juftifies the contrary
fuppofnion ; but I shall be always opposed to dire£l taxes till it
(hall appear that they are indifpenfibly neceflary.
The gentleman supposes that the assumption will leHen the in
fluence of the States and elevate the general government, and has
quoted my observation, that the States out of debt, would be out
of danger : and not as gentlefnen in theoppofition conceived, in
debt out of danger. To confute this doflrine, the gentleman has
stated a cafe, and fays, if owning an estate he owed money on" it,
he Ihould think it more fafe to take the estate into his hands and
pay his debts with its incomes, than to mortgage his estate to ano
ther on his engaging to pay the debts—But Mr. Gerry obfetved,
that the resources for paying the State debts are taken from them,
ana the question in the cafe stated is, whether the owner of an es
tate who owed debts on it, would not expe£l that the person who
occupied it (hould with the incomes pay the debts of the estate
rather than leave the owner to pay them. In the cafe of a minor,60' ill not his guardian who receives the income of an cftate to
pay the minor's debts, and not to apply the incomfc to his own
use whilil the debts were accumulating ? Much had been laid rtl
pefting part of the State debts being for State and not tor te. eral
purposes : but would any gentleman deny that almost the whole
expenditures of the States excepting the expenccsof their civil go
vernments, were lor federal purposes, or that the taxes of the
States had tar exceeded the civil lifts and other expences of the
States' Is it not evident then that the extftmg debts of the States
must be far (hort of their demands against the United States for
luppUes furnilhed by their citizens ? And where is the force
of this objection ? It has been urged by another gentleman trom
Virginia Mr. Moore) that anaffumption is unconllitutional. He
has mentioned the accounts of that State, which containing State
and federal charges, obliged the State to difcrim.nate between
them. But how does this prove the unconditionality of the
mcafure ? The debts of the States are either debts of the union or
not; if not, we have no desire to assume them ; if they are, we
think it unjust to avoid payment because of the mode in which
they have been negociated ; and we conceive it is fufficiently evi
dent that the existing State debts are for the property or services
of individuals received by the union. But suppose we (hould rc
fufe to alTuine the State debts, will not the injured creditors of
the States be forever opposed to your government ? Will they
not consider this measure, explained as it will be in the progress of
the debates as a State artifice to defraud them of their property ?
For altho' the integrity of the honorable mbver is unquestionable,
yet if his proportion, when examined has the tendency pointed
out, it will if adopted be considered as artifice. The State cre
ditors in a common cause will probably not confine tbeir oppo
sition to the collection of a federal excise, but will extend it to
the impost, which will be considered as an uujutl alienation of the
State funds to pay the federal at the expence of the State creditors.
Such policy instead of promoting peace and concord, will be a
l'ource of war and discord between the different clalTes of citizens
and the United States. For these and other reasons that may be
urged, Mr. Gerry hoped the proportion would be reje£lcd.
Mr. Livermore said, that he fecondedthe motion (ot Mr. White)
beaufe he supposed it would bring the fubjeftfully before the com
mittee : For I consider, said he, that it would he as absurd for
Congress to assume the whole mass of the State debts, previous to
a liquidation, and ascertaining the ballances, as it would be to pay
the account of an individual without fitft determining whether it
was just or not. I always consider it bad policy to pay money
firft and then fettle the account afterwards. It appears to me very
strange how an individual, or a nation, deeply involved in debt,
can raise its credit by assuming to pay the debts of others. But
Congress according to some gentlemen, appear to pollefs the whole
art of financiering ; their power extends to extracting gold out of
a rock. The States individually, know nothing at all about the
business ; they have however found measures to raise money fuffi
cient in times part, and I have no doubt can do it again - -This
assumption will be injurious to the State creditors ; they have trull
ed the States, and Congress has no right to interfere in their con
tracts. For my part I (hould thank no man for offering to take
my eftateout of my own hands, to pay my debts : I should pre
fer handling my own money rnyfelf. With refpefl to the maxim
out of debt, out of danger, I think it applies against the measure
of assumption : Forcertainly going into debt, is going into danger,
and we surely will not entertain less concern for the general, than
for the ftatc governments. I hope therefore the motion for a pre
vious liquidation, will take place, for I do not conceive that we
have any thing to do with the debts, further than the ballances
which may appear to be due after this liquidation. If the several
State debts Ihould never be paid,Congrefs has nothing to blame it
felf for: Congress has done its duty in calling upon the Slates from
time to time—and the United States are therefore bound to pay
no more than the surplus advanced by any particular State over
and above its quota. He hoped therefore that if the original re
solution (hould pass, it would be with this amendment.
Mr. White replied to Mr. Gerry, and observed, that the gentle
man considered the States,as agents to Congrels ; but he considered
them as agents to the people. The States have been called on,
some have complied with the requisitions. I wish the business to
go on till all have done their duty, and a settlement of accounts to
precede all payment of debts. On the contrary fuppolition, the
States that have already paid will be taxed to pay their debtors.
The gentleman fays, the Secretary contemplates a finking fund;
but this must be at a very distant date. He mentions nothing but
the Poft-OlJice as this fund ; but this has never produced any
thing yet. The State creditors never did look to Congress ; ftiil
I (hould not obje&to the assumption on just principles : I Ihould
chufe to fee what the exertions of the several States have been.
Mr. Burke said, that however the question may be determined
at this moment, it mull finally be adopted, for South-Carolina
cannot grapple with her debt any more than a child with a giant.
And (he will consider herfelf in a wretched condition, if after be
ing whrrdled into the Constitution, and wheedled out of her im
port, she (hould now be abandoned to her fate, with a debt incur
red for the general defence which (he never can dtfeharge.
M r . Livermore said, that the observations of the gentleman last
speaking, had not altered the nature of the question at all. It is
no fault of the United States if anv particular state or individual,
is in debt : It is their misfortune, but Congress is not obliged to
make itfelf answerable for such debts. The gentlemen from South
Carolina are inftru&ed to urge this matter : They do right so far
as thcrr judgement isin the measure; but the delegates from New
Hampshire expect different inftruftions upon this fubjeft ; and I
shall think it my duty to follow those inftruflions, especially as
they will accord with sentiments I have long entertained on the
fubjefl. As I said before, lam for doing ftrift juflice, and when
the accounts are fettled I (hall be in favor of assuming the balances
that any particular State may appear to be entitled to.
(to be continued.)
SATURDAY, MARCH 13
Sundry petitions were read.
The memorial from the officers of the South-Carolina line of the
late army, after some debate was referred to the fecretai v of the
treafurv
In committee of the whole on the report of the secretary of the
trcafury—for providing for thelupport of the public credit.
The blank in the third proportion of the sixth resolve, was pas
sed over by consent.
The seventh and eighth resolutions were agreed to, viz,
VII. " Resolved, that immediate provision ought to be made
for the present debt of*the United States ; and ihat the faith of go
vernment ought to be pledged to make provision, at the next ses
sion, for so much of the debts of the refpettive States, as (hall have
been lubfcribed upon any of the terms expreficd in the laitrefo
lution."—
VIU. ,s Resolved, that the funds which shall be appropriated
according to the fccond of the foregoing resolutions, be applied in
the firft place to the payiment of interest on the sums fubferibed to
wards the proposed loan ; and that if any part of the said domestic
debt shall remain unfubferibed, the surplus of the said funds be
applied, by a temporary appropriation, to the payment of interest
oil the unfubferibed part, so as not to exceed, for the present, four
per cent, per annum ; but this limitation shall not be understood
to impair the right of the non-fubferibing creditors to the residue
of the interest on their refpe&ive debts : And in cafe the aforefaid
surplus should prove inefficient to pay the non-fubferibing credi
tors, at the aforefaid rate of four per cent, that the faith of govern
ment be pledged to make good such deficiency."—
A proportion similar to the one proposed by Mr. Boudinot,
was moved by Mr. Gerry—but after considerable difcuflion it was
withdrawn. Adjourned.
MONDAY, MARCH i>.
On motion of Mr. Sherman the house went into a committee of
the whole on the bill making appropriations tor the lervicej oi
government for the year 179^-
The bill was read. , . . r
Mr. Smith (S. C.) moved to add after the fourth Uttion aclaute
providing for the payment of expences 011 account of the Light-
HoJl'e, at the entrance of the harbor of Charlellon, previous lo
passing the ast for making the cession thereof to Congrrfs.
Mr Sherman obfeived that Congrels would doubtless pay such
expences as have arisen subsequent to the time of the cession, agree
able to the ad ol the legislature—but if any particular state» have
been remiss in paying off arrearages, which exiiled prior to that
period it certainly cannot be expefled that such arreaiages should
be paid by the United States.
Mr. Tucker observed that the expences referred to by his col
league were incurred in consequence of the funds being diverted
into a different channel which had been appropriated by the State
for their discharge—the amount is not great—not more, perhaps
than four hundred pounds (lerling-he thought that it was a jult
and equitable allowance, as it was ceded to the United Slates in an
unfinithed situation, has been finifhed since, and the State has been
precluded from paying this expence by the funds being absorbed
by the United States. .
Mr. Livermore observed that the present bill is a bill of appro
piiations, and not of grants, it refers to sums to be provided for
by laws already past, the motion therefore appears to be out of
Mr. Tucker replied that lie was aware of the difficulty, and
meant to have moved for an addition to the whole sum, by pro
posing that it be encreafed twothoufand dollars, a sum which he
fuppnfed would be adequate to defraying the deficiency.
Mr. Jackson advocated the motion, and added, he hoped the
gentlemen from South Carolina would give their vote for certain
improvements in the navigation of Savanna river ( which he men
tioned, and which he deftgned to move for.
Mr. Fitzfimons spoke against the motion, he ffiowed its im
propriety and unequal operation j that he thought it an incon
siderable object, in itfelf, and more so when contemplated as com
ing from a State, which the United States have agreed to pay five
millions of dollars for.
Mr. Tucker replied to Mr. Fitzfimons, and said, that he did
not conceive the affumptionof the Hate debts had any thing to do
with the present motion ; if the debts of South-Carolina are to be
paid, ffie willfurniffi the mean!, as it will be applying her refour
ccs to their proper object.
The motion being put, was negatived.
Mr. Jackson after some introductory observations, proposed the
following amendment, aiter the words " Cape-Henry" to add
" and for removing the obftru&ions in Savanna River, from that
City to the Sea."
The fame obje&ions refpefting the informality of the amend
ment, were made to this, as were to the motion offered by Mr.
Smith.
Mr. Jackson after infilling on the propriety of bringing forward
the prelcnt motion, when the house were specially engaged in
voting monies for public expcnces, and observing that according
to the ideas of some gentlemen the house had no right to add to
the appropriations proposed by the fccretary. said, that accord
ing to this do&rinc, the whole buiineft of legislation may be as
well submitted to him, so that in fa& the house would not be the
representatives of their constituents, but of the secretary—he fur
ther said, that as there appeared to be some weight iu the objefli
on, to introducing his amendment in this clause, he would with
draw it for the present.
A motion was then made by Mr. Livcrmore to introduce a
clause for allowing the sum of one hundred and ninety-two dol
lars to Gifford Dalley for his services ninety-fix days, during the
recess of Congrcfs, which was agreed to.
Mr. Jackson then observed that this appeared to be the proper
time to bring forward his motion, he therefore moved that the
sum of be allowed for removing the wrecks and ob-
ftruttions in Savanna River, from that city to the Sea,
Mr. Bland obje&ed to the motion as involving a principle preg
nant with innumerable difficulties ; for no man can tell to what
extent it can be carried. Should this be granted, every member
in this House will come forward with proposals for clearing rivers
and opening canals to the sources of rivers.
Mr. Jackson observed, that the principle is already established
in the bill, by the provifton made for Delaware river.
He said that the revenue of the United States is to be derived
from navigation and commerce ; excepting the obftruftion in our
rivers and harbors are removed, commerce will be embarrassed
and our revenue will be ielfened and destroyed, and in this view
the measure appears to be founded in reason, policy, and justice,
and not to do it will be impolitic and unjust.
The motion being put, was negatived.
The committee having gone thro the bill, rofc and reported the
fame wiLh sundry amendments.
The bill was then ordered to be engrofied for a third reading to
morrow.
On motion of Mr. Jackson to take up the bill refpe&ing the
South-Wcftern-Frontiers. The doors of the gallaries were (hut.
TUESDAY, MARCQ 16.
The bill for making appropriations for the services of Govern
ment for the year 1790 —was brought in engrossed, read the third
time and passed.
AinelTagewas received from the Prefidentofthe United States,
by the secretary of the department of war, conveying information
received from the supreme executive of the State of Pennsylvania,
relative to the depredations of the Indians on the trontiers of that
State.
Mr. Lawrance presented a memorial from the importers of
hemp, and the manufacturers of cordage in the city ofNew-York,
stating a variety of difficulties to which they arefubje&cd from the
operation ot the revenue laws.
Sundry reports from the Secretary of the Department of War,
on petitions referred to him, were read.
On motion of Mr. Ames, the petition of the Rope-Makers, See.
of the town of Boston was read, and with the petition from those
of New-York, referred to a fele6t committee confiding of Mr.
Lawrance, Mr. Boudinot, and Mr. Heifter.
The motion of Mr. Boudinot, for appointing a committee of 11
members, to whom petitions and memorials for claims (hould be
referred, was read and taken into consideration.
Some gentlemen obje&ed to this plan, and preferred the motion
offered by Mr. Bland, for a direst reference to the heads of de
partments. An amendment was agreed to,that the petitions should
be firft read in the House.
Mr. Boudinot observing that this amendment being adopted,
defeated the obje£l of the proportion, he therefore withdrew the
motion. But it being renewed by another member, was further
debated; but on the question to agree to the proportion, it was
loft.
The resolutions offered by Mi* Bland relative to the fame fubjett
were then taken into consideration.
After some debate thequeftion on the firft resolution being pul
it was negatived, the other was loft of course.
Mr. Boudinot moved for the order of the day on the report of
the committee to whom was referred the memorials of the people
called Quakers. The motion was opposed. it was said that the
order of the day on the report of the secretary of the treasury
claimed a preference in the attention of the houle; after consider
able debate the question was taken, and palled in the affirmative.
The report was then read.
A meflage was received from the PreHdent of the United States
with the ratification of the amendments to the constitution by the
State of Pennsylvania.
386
The report 011 the ilave-tuiie wasihei dikulfcd.
Mr. Tucker after premising several obfervationsou the injustice,
and unconlUtutionahty of the interference of the legillatuiein the
bulinels, proposed an amendment which ihould negative the whole
report.
Mr. Jackl'on spoke largely 011 the subject, and in opposition to
the report.
Mr. Vining replied to Mr. Jackson.
A question then role on the fubjeft of order. The Chairman
gave his opinion that the amendment, offered by Mr. Tucker,
was not in order. This quellion was discussed with coaliderable
ardor on both lides. Hie queltion being p«i,ihe Committee de
termined that the amendment was not tu order.
Mr. Tucker then proposed to add the amendment immediate
ly after the preamble ot the report, after the word " opinion."
The queltion of order wasftill agitated on this variation, and the
committee role without a decision, and are to set again 011 this
fubjeft to-morrow. Adjourned.
ON THE LIBERTY OF THE PRKSS.
(CONTINUED.)
OU R property, as well as life and liberty, is
secured to us by our constitution of govern
ment. The man that ruins the reputation of his
neighbor, may thereby, in a variety of cases,
deprive him of acquiring or improving his pro
perty, and consequently becomes amenable to
the laws of the land ; for surely our constitu
tional rights are not to be wrested from us and
sported with, according to the will and pleasure
of an enraged llanderer, or a needy printer. I
know that it has been observed, that the fame
press which teems with abuse against any mar.,
affords him an opportunity of defending himfelf.
The observation is specious ; but let me alk is it
not poflible that the fcandal may be inure widely dif
fused than the reparation of it. Will not the man
who has exerted himfelf to defame his fellow-ci
tizen, use as great, or greater exertions, tofpread
abroad the defamation ?
It is further asserted that good men are not a
fraid of a free press ; that none but bad charac
ters shrink from its lash. I aflert in contradiction
to this, that good men may fufter, nay, in this
Stat:, have fuffered, from the bitter, unmerited
severity of malicious scribblers, who have too
frequently misrepresented characters. The fame
aflertion might have been made with respect to
the old comedies of the Greeks, which aniwer
ed the purposes of our prefles. In tliefe, real
charaiflers were introduced, and real anions were
represented. But let it be remembered, that the
fame Ariltophanes who exposed the vicious man,
the falfe patriot, or the ignorant pretender, ex
ercifedhis satire, against that molt virtuous and
wife man, the amiable Socrates. This daring li
centiousness was at length curbed by laws, and
the fame reltridtions will be found neceflary up
on our printing prefles, or no person's reputation
can be fafe.
Every man should be esteemed innocent, until
there is proof to the contrary. No man can be
punilhed for a crime, until he is convicted of it,
by evidence before a jury of his Peers. Shall
then an individual, from meer suspicion, inttift
the inoft severe species of punilhment upon his
neighbor, the detestation and contempt of his
fellow-citizens ? If a man has been guilty of
crimes, the press is not the proper tribunal be
fore which he is to be brought. Let hiin be ac
cused before the courts of jullice, and if convict
ed, let him be punished. But to punifli a man
unheard (and is not thelalh of the satirist pun
ilhment?) is the molt cruel tyranny —but it may
be objected, " there are crimes not cognizable
in courts of justice," are not these fair game?
If they are crimes, let laws be made to punifli
them—lf they do not merit this name, and are
only foibles, I still deny the right to attack ail
individual on account of them. Foibies which
do not amount to crimes are the proper objedts
of satire and the drama. But let us " spare the
person and expose the vice," most satirists have
fallen into the error of attacking the agent and
not the a<st. This entirely fruftrates the end of
satire. It should be general, not local. What
applies to one only, can extend its effecfts to hini
alone—but when a vice is depicted in proper co
lours, the satire will apply equally to all persons
who are guilty of it, and its effects will be not
meerly temporary, but perpetual—l have been
led into these reflections, from observing the
personal abule, which has too long reigned, un
checked among us. It is much to be wilhed that
the liberty of the press may no longer remain a
vague term, which may be used to juftify every
species of defamation ; but that its import be
accurately defined—The French constitution ef
tablilhes a free press, but with a proviso, " that
the authors lhall be responsible for the abuse of
that liberty, in cases provided for by the law.
—We have already fuffered too much from the,
want of reftri<ftion. Domestic tranquility has
been invaded. The wife, the virtuous man, the
patriot, the philosopher, the statesman, and the
industrious citizen, have equally smarted from the
whip of calumny. Many a one has fallen a facn
fice to the malicious insinuations, ordiredl reflec
tions of a murderer oj reputations. —As we ha\e
shaken off civil and religious tyranny, if we have
any refpedl to our good name, and inward peace,
we shall now endeavor to free ourselves from
the tyranny oj the press, the effe<sts of which are no
less dangerous and fatal.
PHILELUTHEROS.THE ADDRESSOF THE ROMAN CATHOLICS
To GEORGE WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
SIR,
TlfE have been long impatient to teftify our
_ » * joy and unbounded confidence on your be
ing called,by an unanimous vote,to tliefirlt Rati
on of a country, in which that unanimity could
not have been obtained without the previous merit
of unexampled services, of eminent wisdom, and
unblemished virtue. Our congratulations have
not reached you sooner, because our scattered si
tuation prevented the communication and the
collecting ofthofe sentiments, which warmed eve
ry breast. But the delay has furnifhed us with
the opportunity, not merely of presaging the hap
piness to be expected under your administration,
but of bearing teßimony to that which we expe'
rience already. It is your peculiar talent, in war
and in peace, to afford security to those, who com
mit their protection into your hands. In war,
you shield them from the ravages of armed hosti
lity: In peace, you establish public tranquility,
by the justice and moderation, not left than by
the vigor of your government. By example as
well as by vigilance, you extend the influence of
laws on the manners of our fellow citizens. You
encourage respect for religion, and inculcate by
words and actions, that principle, on which the
■welfare of nations so much depends, that a super
intending Providence governs the events of the
world, and watches over the conduct of men.
Your exalted maxims, and unwearied attention to
the moral and physical improvement of our coun
try have produced already the happiest effects.
Under your administration, America is anima
ted with zeal for the attainment, and encourage
ment of ufeful literature ; she improves her ag
riculture, extends her commerce, and acquires
"with foreign nations a dignity unknown to her
before. From these happy events, in which none
can feel a warmer interest than ourselves, we de
rive additional pleasure by recollecting that you,
Sir, have been the principal inftruinent to effect
lo rapid a change in our political situation. This
prospect of national prosperity is peculiarly plea
ding to us on another account; because whilst our
country prefervesher freedom and independence,
we shall have a well-founded title to claim from
her justice the equal rights of citizenlhip, as the
price of our blood spilt under your eyes, and of our
common exertions for her defence, under your
auspicious conduct; rights rendered more dear
to us by the remembrance of former hardlhips.
When we pray for the preservation of them, where
they have been granted ; and expecft the full ex
tension of them from the justice ofthofe States,
which still reftricft them ; when we solicit the pro
tection of Heaten over our common country we
neither omit, or can omit recommending }our
preservation to the Angular care of Divine Pro
vidence : Because we conceive that no human
means are so available to promote the welfare of
the United States, as the prolongation of your
health and life, in which are included the ener
gy of your example, the wisdom of your coun
<els, and the pcrfuafive eloquence of your vir
J. CARROLL,
In Behalf of the Roman Catholic Clergy.
CHARLES CARROLL, of Carrollton,
DANIEL CARROLL,THOMASFITZSIMONS
DOMINICK LYNCH,
In Behalf of the Roman Catholic Laity.
To the ROMAN CATHOLICS in the UNITED
STATES of AMERICA.
GENTLEMEN,
\YT HI L E 1 now receive with much fatisfaiflion
» » your congratulations on my being called by
an unanimous vote, to the firft ltation in my coun
try ; I cannot but duly notice your politeness in
offering an apology for the unavoidable delay :
As that delay has given you an opportunity of
realizing, initead of anticipating the benefits of
the general government ; you will do me the
justice to believe, that your testimony of the in
crease of the public prosperity, enhances the
pleafm e which I Ihould otherwise have experi
enced from your affectionate addrels.
I feel that my conduit in war and in peace, has
met with more general approbation than could
reasonably have been expected : And I find my
felf disposed to consider that fortunate circum
stance, in a great degree resulting from the able
support and extraordinary candor of my fellow
citizens of all denominations.
The profpeift of national prosperity now be
fore usis truly animating, and ought to excite the
exertions of all good men to eftabli/h and secure
the happiness of their country, in the permanent
duration of its Freedom and Independence. Ame
rica, under the fniiles of a Divine Providence
The protection of a good government, and the
cultivation of manners, morals and piety, cannot
fail of attaining an uncommon degree of emi
nence, in literature, commerce, agriculture, im
provements at home and refpe&ability abroad.
As mankind become more liberal they will be
more apt to allow, that all those who conduct
themselves as worthy members of the community
are equally entitled to the protection of civil go
veinment. I hope ever to fee America anions: the
roremolt nations in examples of justice and liber
ality. And I presume that your fellow-citizens
will not forget the patriotic part which you took
Ifttu-aCCOni')''''iniei!t1 ft t u- aCCOni ' ) '''' iniei ! t of their revolution, and the
eltablifhment of their government: Or, tfie im.
portant affiltance which they received from a na
tion in which the Roman Catholic Faith is pro
felled. r
I thank you, Gentlemen, foryour kind concern
tor me. While my life and my health lhall con
tinue, in whatever situation 1 may be, it lhall be
my constant endeavor to juftify the favorable sen
timents which you are pleased to express of my
condudL And may the members of your l'ociety
in America, animated alone by the pure spirit of
chHftianity, and still conducting themselves as
the laithful fubjecls of our free government, en
joy every temporal and spiritual felicity.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
New-York, March 17, 17^0.
THE National Aflembly of France which is but
a Convention, met for the express purpose of al
teringthe old Constitution, began its memorable
felnon the 27th of April—l7B9 years after Jesus
Chuft 1371 years after Pharamoud, founderof
the French Monarchy—B92 after Hugh Capet,
head of the reigning family, and in the 16tli year
of ihe reign of Lewis the XVlth, proclaimed the
restorer of the freedom of France. The nation
considering that a long fucceflion of ages that
manners and opinions, altogether new, have in
tirely altered and changed its interests—its politi
cal, civil and military constitution, has underta
ken to form and eftablifli a new one 011 the prin
ciples of perfed: freedom. This is the molt im
portant event which has happened in the old world
sot many ages—whacunay we not expect from the
collective wiicloin of one of the most enlightened
and most influential people of Europe > The rights
of men and of citizens- those of the Monarch and
of the fubjecft, will atlaftbe known andafcertain
ed on the most folidbafis ; Fhey mean to establish
the political and civil happiness of the prefentas
well as of the succeeding generations. The num
ber of pamphlets published in Paris, as well as in
the provinces is beyond credibility. They have
permanent committees in every town and city
throughout this great kingdom, who receive re
gularly accounts of the proceedings of the Nati
onal Aflembly, and which are|read with avidity by
themeaneil: peasant : These publications must be
considered as so many sparks, which the univer
sality of the French language spreads throughout
Europe with an amazing rapidity—the irrelilia
ble effect of which, must produce all over the ci
vilized world an era much more propitious to the
rights ofmen. Lewis XlVth, unintentionally
took a very effectual method to difleminate the
French language, by revoking theEdidl of Nantes.
Little did he suppose that he was thereby sowing
the feeds of the present glorious revolution : The
refugees who were scattered thro Europe carried
rheir language with them—they preserved their
sentiments—they taught their neighbors their
language—ihey acquired additional motives to
preserve their privileges, and new ideas on the
general subject of the rights of human nature
and thus laid the foundation of Gallic Freedom.
It is happy for our country, that notwithstand
ing the turpitude of the times, our national cha
racteristics are far from being disreputable : and
that that justice which dignifies and adorns a peo
ple, appears to be fought after, as a guide to di
rect in our concerns as a nation. The payment
of our debts is a leading object of our rulers
andthat the United States are well capacitated to
pay all demands against them, is a fact uot to
be disputed. Happy for our country, it is in pof
feflion of the clioiceft of Heaven's gifts—The
mines of Peru, and the islands of riches, are un
der her feet ; and are daily realized : Her coasts
are extenflve—her foil fruitful—her fonsenter
prifing—and to crown her happiness, (lie carries
in her hand the cap of Liberty. Majf. Cen.
The concern'd in the ship Columbia and (loop Walhington,
have recciv'd letters from captain Kcndrick, dated at Nootka in
July lait ; he informs them that he pafTcd the Winter preceeding
on the north weft coast of America : that he was then bound on a
voyage further Northward, and from thence intended to proceed
to Canton The letters were forwarded to Mexico by a Spanish
fleet that had been at Nootka, and from thence to the Spanish
Charge des affaires at New-York. They were covered to the Pre
sident of the United States of America.
The Rogues lately taken in Massachusetts, are
the tnoft celebrated adepts in the science of coun
terfeiting, &c. which have appeared among us.
At the present moment, the securing this knot
of artists may be of very great consequence—as
it is suspected the whole fraternity thro the Uni
ted States may be discovered, and broken up, if
proper steps are pursued.
Sunday morning last, about 5 o'clock, a fire
broke out in the Malt-House of Meflrs. Watson,
Willet, and Co. which destroyed the fame : The
Brew-House adjoining received some damage.
As it was very calm, the spirited exertions of the
citizens were effectual to preventing any further
spreading of the flames.
Monday morning a house in Beaver Stre«t caught
fire in the roof, which was said to be occasioned
387
by putting a/lies in a calk in an upper chamber.
Happily the flames were exringuifhed by the time,
ly exertionsofthefire companies and the citizens
with the loft of the roof only.
Horses and carts in a crowd at the time of fire,
pi oduce confufion, disarrange the ranks formed
tor facilitating the paflageof the water in buckets,
and greatly endanger the limbs of people. \V be
thel these difadvantagesare cotinterballanced by
the lupply ol water contained in a tea-water ho®-
lhead, is the qneltion.
fr"3' " Specta tor" in our next.
ARRIVALS. NEW YURK.
Saturday Sloop Bctfey, Brooks, Philadelphia.
Sloop New-York Packet, Bailey, Ditto.
lutjday Schooner Exchange, Wilson, Charleston. 10 days.
Brig Minerva, Worth, Port-au- Prince, 23 days,
Schooner Friends Adventure, Parker, Kingston 36 days.
ADVERTISEMENT.
By the Visitors and Governors of St. John's Collegein the State of
Maryland, February io, 1790.
Resolved Unanimously,
T H x, AT a .' the rc g u,ar qLiiirccrly meeting on the second Tuesday in
A November next, the •Visitors and Governors of St. John's
College,ele£t a Principal of the said College ; that it be the duty of
the Principal to superintend the College according to regulations
hereafter to be established, and in conjunction with the Vice-
Principal, to teach the higher authors in Latin and Greek and
the higher branches of science usually taught in other American
Colleges ; and that he receive for his ferviccs, an annual salary of
£ .500 current money, equal to £.300 sterling of Great-Britain,
or 1 »333 j Spanilh dollars, to be paid quarterly.
That at the next quarterly meeting, on the second Tuesday in
May next, the board ele6l a master of writing and arithmetic in
laid St. John's College ; and that he receive for his services, an
annual lalary of £ .150 current money to be paid quarterly.
That Mr. Wallace, Mr. Carroll, of Carrolton, and Mr Han
l^Y„ committee to write a letter in behalf of this board, to
Doctor Price, Doctor Reefe, and Dodor Kippis, of the kingdom
ot Great-Britain, inclosing a copy of the Resolve refpe&ing the
appointment of a Principal; requeftmg them to recommend a°man
proper to be eleaed Principal of St. John's College, and alTurino
them, that if the man, whom they shall recommend, be approved
ot—immediate information thereof shall be given.
I hat the several Resolves for ele&mg a Principal and master of
writing and arithmetic, be published in such newspapers as the
laid committee shall think proper.
Tcft, NICHOLAS BRICE, Sec'ry.
The public are requefled to take notice that if a proper
charaftcr in America dial! offer, the Visitors are free to appoint
mm ; ana that they wish to eletl a Principal, as early as is con
tinent with propriety, and the lading welfare of the College.
Any person desirous ol offering himfelf either as a Principal of
1 ill 1 College, or master of writing and arithmetic, will be
pieced by writing to inform any one, or tlje whole of the com.
mittee, confiding of Mr. Charles Carroll, now in Congress,"Mr.
Charles Wallace, in Annapolis, and the Chancellor of Maryland.
The printers of America are requefled to insert in their rcfpec
tive newspapers the foregoing Resolves and notifications ; and to
lntoim their fellow-citiaens, that St. John's College, after a varie*
ty of untoward disastrous circumstances, was opened and dedicat
ed in November lall ; that the plan of thisrifing seminary com
prehends two schools for philosophy or the higher branches of
cience, under the Principal and Vice-Principal—a school for the
learnea languages under a profcfTor, an afTiftant master, and ush
ers to be appointed, according to the number of dudents ; and a
Ichool for writing and arithmetic subordinate to the grammar
school ; that John M'Dowell, A. M. is already engaged as profcf
for of philosophy—the Rev. Ralph Higginbottom, profeffor of
languages, and Mr. Patric M'Grath his afTiftant master ; that t'lerc
is a moral certainty that by the 17th of March, the number .f
students will exceed fifty. Indeed from the fortunate fituat f
at. John's College, the amount and liability of its funds,
racier and residence of its trudeeg, there is the fairell pr 1
presented of itsanfwering in the fulled extent the purpo'. of it;
liberal and wife founders, and benefactors.
Just publilhed, by
CAREY, STEWART, AND COMPANY,
No. I, of the VII(h volume of
The American MUSEUM,
UNIVERSAL MAGAZINE,
And to be fold by THOMAS ALLEN, No. i 3 ,Q u een-Stre* t,
where lubfcriptions are received, at 2 Dol. and half pr. an.
CHARACTER OF THE MUSEUM.
I "TT has been uniformly conduced with taste, attention, and pro
-11 l P r '"y' A more used library plan has never been undert.i
ken in America, or one more deserving of public cncouraee
ment. His Excellency General Wajhington
" It has been conduced ,n a manner highly deserving of pub
he encouragement." Hon. John Dickinfm.
it " fjr exceeds . >n my opinion, every attempt of the kind,
which, from any other American press ever came to my hands.'"
His Excellency Governor Livingjlon.
it 1 C "" cur Y', th thofc rcf P cflablc characters, (Genera! WafKinr
u° n u r D ' cklnfon > and Governor Livingllon) in their
high opinion of the work, and of its execution." His Exccllen
cy Governor Randolph.
II 1! n hC - IV J ufcum ', s calculated to disseminate literary, political,
hirtorical, agricultural, and other valuable information, in a
very advantageous manner, and to a great extent, and more es
pecially to preserve mterefting documents from oblivion"
m<; n "" R , ev - Or. Dwigkt—Judge Hophinfon—Bidiop
Wi.(e_Rev Dr. £oi, v _Rev. Dr. Magaw—Tench Coxe, Esq.
Judge f,,1"„ ~" judge iaa, -J ud S<= Oytr—Judge Sherman-.
To be SOLD,
At PUBLIC AUCTION, on the First Day of April next, (if
,lot disposed of before, at Private Sale.)
pleasant and valuable Placeforinerly cal
led COLES-FERRY, now by the name of VAN DUZER'S
on Staten Island, Richmond County, with two good fufficienc
Pettiaugers for the ferrying business. It is a beamiful situation.
and one of the bcft stands for a Ferry, or Tavern, on Staten-Ifiand
and an excellent Shad and Herring Filhery within 20 yards of the
door, Black-Fish, and all other kind of Filh in their season. It
is Hkewife the bed and moll convenient Ferry to Long-Island
where a number ofpaffengerspafs and repafs. It lies within two
miles ofthe Potntofthe Narrows,and between 8 andg miles from
New-York. There is about 30 acres ofexcellent good Land, chief
ly Meadow, with a very good Wharf, House, Barn and Garden
the whole being in good repair. It will also make a beautiful
Country Seat, fit for any gentleman.
For Particulars enquire of John Anderson, corner of the
Exchange, or Charles M'Lean, White Hall, New-York, or
of Messrs Byerss and Rei l ly, Staten-Ifland, or of theSubfcri
.bcr on :h: premises, where the conditions of sale will be made
known. ABRAHAM VANDUZER.
Stcilen~lJland, March 6, 1790,THE APOLOGIZER
HAIL ! All hail theaufpicious xra of humani
ty ! Avaunt ! Ye black difcriptions ot hu
man nature, and of crimes against common fenle,
good government and good order. Rejoice ye
anti-feds ! Your apologizer triumphs ! He is read
with applause ! What a glory his labors Ipread
over you! Your opinions and practices, which
heretofore have been supposed criminal, are prov
ed to be the perfection of nature working by cross
purposes ! Your honesty is demonftated, by a
more felf evident truth, the circumscription of
your understandings ! Howpleafing to the writer
is the applause of his own con science, forrefcuing
from the bar of public censure thole unpitied ones,
who, bating the energy of his own quill, never
could have had a defender ! Black fliade of Cata
line ! Hear me, and be thou the patron-demon ot
my undertaking; and may Arnold, thy antiiype
in the present age, be a minlltering genius between
me and thee, for my afliftance while I emblazon
the integrity of our common friends. Reader, be
not impatient, the mysteries of my factious devoti
on are now ended, and I will again converfewith
thy earthly understanding. A principle of felf
preservation is a part of living nature, of which
no creature is deititute ; a man and his mule e
qually feel its influence. Even a fabulous exift
cnce is dear to thepoHeflor—witnefs the felf pre
serving exertions of Griffins, Unicorns and other
imaginary beings of antiquity ; when science be
gan to enlighten the mass of mankind, and they
felt a faintnefs spread over their fabled being how
they struggled to survive. If such be thy efforts,
felf-prefervingnature, where thou art but imagin
ed to be, what mult be the labor of thy creatures
to continue, when they actually exist. No mat
ter how small the quantity of being, if it be some
thing—a little fometliing is as real as a great some
thing, and, for ought we can know to the contra
ry, feels as ltrongly the principle of felf preser
vation, and the evil of extinction.
Self preservation how sacred ! Is it not a jufti
fying plea for whatever man can do ? Do not our
laws and reverend judges allow it to be a defence
against the highest charges ? And would you not
sneer in the face of an anti-fed, for so far forget
inghisown fafety, as voluntarily to subscribe a
constitution, which requires capacities in govern
ment above his own ? Doth any man love to go
into company in which he cannot ihine ? I tell
thee friend, that these questions carry death to a
great number, whom the Apologizer wilhes to pre
serve, and it may be thine own portion, while
thou art gazing.
Tho regard to public good be a laudable princi
ple of acftion, it is, by no means so sacred or bind
ing on any one as nature's own instinct of felf
pre fervation.
Reader, if thou art a great man in thine own
State, I am certain these arguments will goto thy
heart, and bring to remembrance the time when
thou haft felt them. These feelings I ffiall never
forget, for tho I am now one of the literati, I have
been quite another creature, a great man in my
own State. It was a vision. When I was medi
tating this apology, on motives of pure benevo
lence ; rhofe invilible powers came upon me, to
whom jrreat authors are indebted for the inspira
tion ot the qnill. In imagination, I was trans
formed from a humble citizen full of love to my
whole country, into the chief man of-a great State
in the western territory. My title was the sweet
est music, I had ever heard. Tho I found my mind
prodigiously leflened by the operation, several of
its pa (lions were increased, especially ajealoufy for
my own honor. The proclamation for a general
thanksgiving, coming out in any other name beside
my own, was a cutting circumstance, but deter
mining not to be insulted without revenge, I join
ed my own name to the supreme fignaiure. Ah !
there is much in signing a name, sometimes it
gives pence,and is half a man's dignity among the
people. In the firft days of vision, I thought iny
felf alone in these feelings, but gradually found
that several counsellors and judges who surround
ed me, felt the gnawing of the fame worm.
They dreaded the approach of federal officers of
a fiinilar department, and the mifchief of the
whole was, we could not convince the people of
what we felt so strongly ; that our own exclusive
dignity was of more consequence than the public
good. It soon became a common cause, and I
shall not fail in due time, to inform the worldof
those pangs in vilion which we all fuffered.
Nature thou art powerful ! Yes ! It was thy
felf preserving power, a&ing in them and in me,
and we fliould have been suicides to resist. But
greater things, than these, were before me, and
lam chilled by the remembrance. This fatal
tour thought 1 within myfelf ! What evil destiny
has led the hero here ? Whether to befirft or se
cond, in the house of my own kingdom, was now
the queftioti. While in tornienting'fufpence, Po
dagra, my guarding angel, who had favedmeout
of many political scrapes, and made my folly pass
for shrewdness, descended ! He seized me body,
foul and joints, and hid me from the scheme ! ! !
(A M r K ! CA N* MeRCC'IIV.)
No. 11l
THE FINE ARTS.
Extratt of a letter from New-Yoik, February 27.
THE justly celebrated Trumbull is now bu
sily engaged in his great undertaking—the
productions you may depend will be a most valua
ble acquisition to the world—to the American
world in particular. I have seen lorae of the pie
ces, in which a tew heads and Tome portraits are
finifhed—The /ikenejfes are PERFECT—the draw
ing, NATURE ITSELF—and the dcfigns senti
mental, elevated and just. In short, here is no
risque—the objedl is sure, and the mind is per
fectly fatisfied—it rests in the execution.
(fyajf. Cert.)
Fir'd with the martial toils that bath'd in gore
His brave companions, on his native shore,
TRUMBULL, with daring hand, the scene recalls,
And shades with night Quebec*s beleaguer'd walls,
Mid slashing flames that round the turret rife,
Blind carnage raves, and great Montgomery dies.
On ChdrUflown** height, thro* floods of rolling fire,
Brave Warrin Falls, and fulfen hosts retire;
While other plains of death that gloom the (kies,
And chiefs immortal o'er his canvas rife 1 .
O DarSv , did you ever feeaWhaJc?
HuJli, neighhors, hujh, let Darby tell his talc."
THE celebration of the Birth-day of our belov
ed PRESIDENT has been general&harmoni
ous, in small as well as in capital towns. Amongst
others, a correspondent has communicated to us
the demonstrations of the refpedi for this illustri
ous character, which inspired the citizens of the
town of Clijticejler, Cape-Ann. In the morning,
Capt. Pea rce ordered the colours to be hoisted,
at the dicliarge of a gun, on board several ves
sels—and at 12 o'clock, desired Capt J. Coffin,
who commands a large ship fitting for whaling,
to fire 13 guns. Atone o'clock, a neat whale
boat, on wheels, well-manned and equipped,
with oars, harpoons and lances, with warp, &c.
and each man drefled in frock and trowfers, was
dragged by men in purfuitof a horse, which re
presented a whale, having fins, &c. fixed to him ;
and 011 coming up, the harpooner threw his har
poon by the horse's fide, and the man on the
horse catching the end of the warp, the horse
immediately fat off upon the run—the men iu the
boat securing themselves, and observing the fame
rules as in real service. The horse at length
flopping, the harpooner on coming up with him,
threw a lance by his fide, and the horse, turning
upon the boat as if in an agony, appeared to fight
it; bur, after several attempts to extricate himfelf,
being at length worn down, was represented as
expiring—The whole affording a scene which
gave much fatisfaftion to a great number of spec
tators. At night, 13 guns were fired, and 13
toasts drank by the gentlemen of the town who
aflembled on the joyous occasion.
AGRICULTURE.
M». Butler,
THE growing of Turnips is justly reckoned a very profitable
branch of hufbandrv—every hint, therefore, that has a ten
dency to advance the cultivation of this valuable root, will be ac
ceptable to the public.
The Fai triers in this part of the country generally sow their
turnips, for fall and winter use, about the 25th of July. I have
beert long apprchenfive that this sowing is too early. Jhe wea.
thcr at this of the year is generally very hot, and very dry,
and drought has a direst tendency 10dwarf and spoil a field of
young turnips :—The black fly also, a natural enefny of tTie tur
nip, is at this period very voracious, and the crop is too often
destroyed rendered unprofitable, by one or other of these
causes.
With a view to remedy these evil«, I sowed my turnips, the
last year, very late in August. My neighbors laughed at me, and
said I fliould not have a single mess : I had, however, m6re and
better turnips than any of them. Encouraged by this success, I
sowed this year on the 25th of August, a small piece of ground,
eight rods only, with turnips. They came up well, and not a fly
touched them. When they had four or five leaves, I dife&ed one
of my men to clean them of weeds, and thin them f6 as to have
them stand ten or twelve inches from each other. The ground
was afterwards slightly stirred with a garden hoc. The leaves
grew rapidly—covered the ground, and prevented the further
growth of weeds. On the 1 ith of November I pulled the turnips
trimmed and meafurcd them, and had on theeight rodsof ground
(the twentieth part of an acre) forty-five bufliels of as large and
well flavored turnips as I ever saw. This produce is at the rate
of nine hundred bufliels per acre. The foil is a sandy loam in
good heart, but by no means in high tilth.
I sowed two other small pieces of ground, the one 011 the firft
and the other about the eighth of Sept. Neither of these yielded
like the one sowed on the 25th of August ; but each of them pro
duced much larger and better turnips than any I have seen that
were sowed at the usual time.
I attribute my success altogether to the late sowing—then the
heat is lcfs intense the rain more frequent, the dew copious, the
fly harmlejs, and the crop abundant. YOUNG FARMER.
Hampjhirc County, Dec. 1789.
PROGRESS OF AMERICAN MANUFACTURES.
THE Picfident of the United States having recommended to
Congress a legifiative encouragement for producing, amonu
ourlelves, the various articles of manufacture conducive to the de
fence of the country; it may be fatisfaftory to learn the actual state
ot one of these manufactures in Pennsylvania, as it appears in the
following extratt of a letter from thence :
" Being direfterl by the manufaauring board, lately to take
«' upon mea (hare of an exienfive report,in which gun-poWder was
" an article, I was muchpleafed and fuprifed to find that we have
»• twenty-one powdcr-nuls capable of making fix hundred
' and twenty-five tons per annum : That they retail at Q7s.6d oer
" quarter of 251b. and offer to fell, in quantities, under 6l per
i. that E "§!' m Pnce after deducting the boun'tyof
t 75 !i 6 • fterlms ' ° r 61 >°d. currency,per cwt
EngliO, powder ,s now nearly done w.th here, and one yea;
• Will entirely exclude I- lam convinced this edenti.lly necef
• fary manufaflure befidesenfunng defence, is worth above 200
< .000 de.lavs. It has furpnlcd me as much as the paper-mills."
-388-
Barlow's Vision,
NEGRO DEPUTIES IN THE NATIONAL AS
SEMBLY.
PARIS, November 17.
IN tlje Island of St. Domingo are 30,000 free
people, viz. 6000 whites, and 24,009 people of
colour, moll of whom are negroes. The for
mer, in the begining of the new Cotiftitution
called a meeting in the Island, and, thinking it
but just that they should be represented, sent their
Deputies to Paris, who were at length admitted
into the Aftembly here. In process of time, the
lafter, i. e. the free black people,called ameet
ing also, in the fame Island. They stated that
they were the fubjetts of France ; that they paid
their taxes in the lame proportion as the former;
that they could fee no difference between the
blacks and the whites ; and that, for these and
other reasons, they ought to be represented also.
They therefore determined upon fending depu
ties and actually nominated three, who arrived
in Paris about a fortnight ago. Upon tliejr ar
rival they demanded an audience of the Aflem
bly, into which they were admitted. On stating
their claims, M. Fretau, the president, a most
zealous friend in the cause of liberty, afl'ured
them that they need not be dispirited ; for that
the Aflembly knew no distinction between Blacks
and Whites, but considered all men as having
equal rights.
The circumstances, however, of the nation
were such, that their claims could not be imme
diately difcufl'ed ; (and here permit me to ob
serve these circumstances are the very fame
which defer the consideration of the Slave trade
alfo)but that they shall have a provisional feat in
the National Aflembly. This provisional feat may
be thus explained : Three Members of Parlia
ment in England put up at an elediion, and two
are returned ; the third complains to tihe House
of an undue election ; the House resolve tocon
fider the cafe on a fixed day, but till then the two
members who were returned keep their feats.
So it is, in the present cafe, the three black re
presentatives are allowed a feat till the cafe is
determined ; and you may therefore fee them
every day in the National Aflembly ; and so far
as I can find, they stand in no danger of losing
their feats at a future time. This circumstance
I have beei) acquainted with for some days, but
was additionally informed last night by Monf.
de la Fayette, that it was one of the articles of
the deputation to appoint him Commander ip
Chief of the 24,000 people of color—which com
mand he has accepted.
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, for the purpose of raiGog Seven Thou
fund Five Hundred Pounds, agreable to an ACT or the Legisla
ture of the State of New-York, pasTed Bth February, 1790.
SCHEME.
t PRIZE of
2
3
10
3°
5°
no
180
7950
8346 Prizes, )
16654 Blanks, J 2 5°°° Tickets, * 4 os > «»ch, /.£QOpt
Subje£t to a dcdu£tion of Fifteen per Gilt.
THEobjcft of this LOTTERY being to raifc a part oftbefum
advanced by the corporation for repairing and enlarging the Cl-
HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, which dors
so much honor to the Architett, as well as credit to the city. The
managers presume that their fellow Citizens will cheerfully con
cur in promoting the sale of Tickets, especially as the success of
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, which roust otherwise
be laid to reimburfethc corporation.
The above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very beneficial
to adventurers,there not being two blanks to a prize.
1 he Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the First
Monday in August next, or sooner if filled, of which timely
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers will be pub
lilhed at the expiration of the drawing.
Tickets are to be fold by the fubferibers, who are appointed
Managers jby the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutknburgh, Abraham Herring,
* >ErER T. Curtri*ius, John Pintard.
New-YorA, 6th March, 1790.
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at his EASX-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Burling-Slif,
Aflbrtinent ofEAST-INDIA GOODS.
Among which are the following Articles:
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5 - 4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. jj Long Cloths,
Hankercluefs,of various kinds, Caffas,
Chintzes, | Seersuckers,
Ginghami, j Boglapores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by tke Piece «r
Package, low for cafli.
And a few pair large handsome Cotton CO UN/
TERPANES, much warmer than Blankets.
New-Yorkj 1789,
A LIVERY STABLE,
Kept by BENJAMIN POWELL, at the upper end of Qulis-
Str eet, Np. 11 J, near the T.ea-Water Pump.
"VVTHERE hetakesinHorfes by the night, week,
r , , or year, at the most moderate rates that can be af
orded. He thanks his former customers for their favors, and flat
ters himfelf that care and attention will again be paid to such gen
tlemen, as mayputtjieir horses in his charge. Boarding and Lodg
ing may be had by applying as above. Feb. 25.
£.3000
2000
is°o
2000
3000
2500
2400
1800
31800
£■.3000
1000
500
200
100
5°
, 2°