[No. LVI.]
THE TABLE T.—No. LVL
tt The more untaught and inconftderate men are, thi
wore entirely they are fivayedby the (tajjion that is uf<
fervioft-
THOSE who aflert, that human nature is.
the fame in all ages and situations, do
not speak with precision. The observation is,
partly true ; hut it is not wholly 10. Men ad:,
equally in all It ages of society, under the impulse
of such motives as have the ftrongell influence.—
Civilisation does not destroy the passions, nor pre
vent the mind from being warped by prejudices.
In different situations, however, different passions
take the lead ; and men of education and reflec
tionlearn to make one palfion fabfer'vient to ano
ther infucil a degree, that that, which from pre
sent circuihftances might befuppofed uppermost,
is not the predominating one. This is the effect
of aAing by system, and controuling the mental
operations by habits of order and felf-denial.—
Some men, though they are constantly exposed to
opposition, and meet with a thousand rubs and
difficulties, seldom exhibit any marks of rcleiit
ment or disquietude. The paflion of anger re
sides in such a breast, as much as it does in one,
that appears more turbulent and untraceable.—
But a sensible man knows that uidefs he governs
his fpltit,he will defeat his own views; and this
niakes him conquer his anger, by Subjecting it to
the stronger fwdy of avarice or ambition. Thus
itappeais that human nature may befo managed,
that it cannot, judging from appearances and ef
fects, becalled'precifely the fame in all situations.
Perfons,who have lived long under the reflraint
of food laws, and have been blelfedwith the re
fined regulation's of civilized life, are changed in
toadifferent kind of beings, from tliofevrho have
been educated under rude or careless jnmtutions.
The force of the passions is not only restrained,
but their bent and direction becomes very differ
ent. A well-bred man will not quarrel with his
family or neighbors. He overlooks those little
mistakes and incidents which throw a clown into
petulance and anger. The objects which employ
the mind of an ambitious citizen are calculated
to (often and humanize the temper, and silence
the impetuosity of palfion, which rages with such
violence in low fcertes of life.
No'conjecture can be formed how humane and
amiable men may be rendered by more perfeift
inltitmions'and laws. Were a person only ac
quainted with the conduct of people in obfeure
villages, he would not conceive it possible, how
great a difference of deportment prevailed in
cultivated fjciety. May we not extend the idea,
and anticipate improvements in the art of happy
living as far fu j»eri or to any that have yet been ex
perienced, as the belt lpecimens now known are
to the word? To live quietly and happily is a
science which can be learned by fludy and atten
tion. The bell natural disposition, and the grea
test sincerity of heart, which man ever poflefled,
will not feeure his friends againll hisunfocial pas
sions, unless by art and education he has been
taught to curbthem. I will close this speculation
by an extract from an author who underltood well
the contexture of the human mind. His remarks
are sprightly and sensible.
" Persons that are well-educated have learned
to study their ease and the comforts of life ; to
tye themselves up to certain rules and decorums
for their own advantage, and often f übmit to small
inconveniencies to avoid greater. Among the
lowest vulgar, and tliefe of the meanest educa
tion at all, you seldom fee a lasting harmony ;
you shall fee a man and his wife, that have a real
affection for one another, be full of love one hour
and disagree the next about a trifle ; and the lives
of many are made miferablo, from 110 other fault
in themselves than the want of manners and dil
cretion. Without design, they will loften talk
imprudently, till they raise one another's anger,
which neither of them being able to ftifle—fhe
scolds at him—he beats her—(he bursts into tears
—this moves him—he is lorry—both repent, and
are friends again—and with all the sincerity
imaginable resolve never to quarrel for the fu
ture, as long as they live : All this will pals be
tween them in less than half a day, and will per
haps be repeated once a month or oftener, as
provocations offer, or either of them is more or
less prone to anger. Affection never remained
long uninterrupted between two persons without
art ; and the befl friends, if they are always to
gether, will fall out, unless great discretion be
used on both fides."
A N E C £> 0 1' E.
IT was a faying ofthe late King of Prussia,
that " Life was iuPa dream, and that the heft dream,
0 man could have, mo:/ld" be, that he was King of
Krance were he, however, alive now, lie
would hold a different language.
(Da~cttc
S A T. U R D A Y, October 24, 1739.
I E T T R. S
Written in Holland, in the Tear M,DCC,LXXX
By His Excellency
THE VICE-PRESIDENT of the Un it ed States..
LETTERIV..
Amsterdam, Oct. 6,1780.
SIR,
\ OUR fourth question is," Whether America,
" in and oj ttfclj, by means ofpurchajing or exchang
" ' ,n S p r »duttions offeveral Provinces, would be
" able to continue the war for fix, eight, or ten years,
" even if they were deprived of the trade with Europe ;
" or their allies, exhaujled by the war, and forced to
" make afcparate peace, were to leave them ?"
Tliis is an extreme cafe—And where is the ne
cessity of putting fucha f'uppofition ? Is there the
least appearance of France or Spain being ex
liaufted by the war ? Are not their resources much
greater than those of England, separated as Die is
from America ? Why should a suspicion be en
tertained that France or Spain will make a sepa
rate peace ? Are not these powers fufficiently in
terested in feparatiug America from s England ?
All the world knows, that their maritime power,
and the poflelHon of their colonies, depend upon
separating them. Such chimeras as these are art
fully propagated by the English, to terrify stock
jobbers ; but thinking men, and well informed
men, know that France and Spain have the moil
prelfing motives to persevere in the war. Besides,
infractions so infamous, of solemn treaties made
and avowed to all mankind, are not committed by
any nation. In short, no man, who knows any
thing of the real wealth and power of England 011
one hand,and of the power and resources ofF ranee,
Spain and America, 011 the other, can believe it
poflible, in the ordinary course of human events,
and without the interposition of miracles, that
France and Spain should be so exliaufted by the
war, as to be forced to make a separate peace.
Theother fuppofitionhere made is equally ex
treme. It is in the nature of things impolfible that
America should ever be deprived entirely of the
trade of Europe. In oppofuion to one extreme I
have a right to advance another And I fay, that
ifall the maritime powers of Europe were to unite
their navies, to block up the American ports, and
prevent the trade of Europe, they could not whol
ly prevent it. All the men of war in Europe would
not be fufficienttoblockup afea-colt of two thou
(and miles in extent, varied, as that of America
is, by such an innumerable multitude of ports,
bays, harbors, rivers, creeks, inlets, andiflands ;
with a coast so tempestuous, that there are many
occasions, in the course of the year, when merchant
vellels can push out and in, although men of war
cannot cruise. It should be remembered, that
this war was maintained by America for three
years, before France took any part in it: during
all that time the English had fifty men of war
upon that coast, which is a greater number than
they ever will have again : yet all their vigilance
was not fufficient to prevent American trade with
Europe. At the worst time we everfaw, onevef
fel in three went and came fafe. At present there
is not one in four taken. It should also be re
membered, that the French navy have never, until
tliis year, been many days together upon the A
nierican coast. So that we have in a sense main
tained the trade of the continent five years, against
all that the English navy could do, and it has been
growing every year.
Why then should we put cases, that we know
can never happen ? However, I can inform you,
that the cafe was often put before this war broke
out —and I have heard the common farmers in A
merica reasoning upon these cases seven years
I have heard them fay, If Great Britain
could build a wall of brass, a thousand feet high,
all along the sea-coast, at low-water mark, we
could live and be happy. America is most un
doubtedly capable of being the most independent
country upon earth. It produces every thing for
the necessity, comfort, and conveniency of life—
and many of the luxuries too. So that if there
were an eternal separation bet\yeen Europe and
America, the inhabitants of America would not
only live but multiply, and, for what I know, be
wil'er, better, and happier, than they will be, as
it is.
That it would be unpleasant and burthenfoine
to America to continue the war for eight or ten
years, is certain : But -will it not be unpleasant
and burthenfoine to Great Britain too ?—There
are three and four millions of people in
America. The kingdom of Sweden, that of Den
mark, and even the republic of the United Pro
vinces, have not each of them many more than
that number—yet these States can maintain large
standing armies even in time of peace, and main
tain the expences of courts and governments,
much more coltly than the governments of Ame-
[Publijhed on IV cdnefday and Saturday .J
rica. What then lliould liinder America from
maintaining an army fufficient to defend her al
ters, and her fire-lides ? The Americans are as
a<ftive,as industrious, and as capableas other men.
America could undoubtedly maintain a regular
army ot twenty thousand men for ever. And a
regular army of twenty thousand men would be
futiicient to keep all the land forces, that Great-
Britain can fend there, confined to the sea-port
towns, under cover of the guns of their men o±"
war. Whenever the Britifli army (hall attempt
to penetrate far into the conntry, the regular A
merican army will be joined by such reinforce
ments from the militia, as will ruin the British
force. By desertions, by fatigue, by ficknefs,and
by the sword, in occalional Ikirmifhes, their num
bers will be wafted, and the tniferable remains of
them Burgoyned.
I hare the honor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
FURTHER EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
Received by the Sandwich Packet.
L O N P O N, August 27.
M. CALONNE, M. NECKAR.
MNECKAR's publication,on the objedt of the
. firlt controverly between him and Monf.
CALONNE, was read with avidity and approba
tion all over Europe.
Mr. Calonnepr'omifed a confutation—but instead
of producing it he came forward with apologetic
reasons lorpoitponing it till the meeting of the
States General—from these reasons we have tran
slated a few extracts, which will ferveto illustrate
the cliara<fler of M. Calonne.
He begins thus :
" The reply, (of M. Neckar) folong expell
ed, so eagerly wilhed for, at length appears. It
appears in the minute when the author is called,
upon to save the State."
Here M. Calonne breathes the spirit of a pro
phet : M. Neckar has saved the State.
" From the dreadful crisis in which this reply
appears, it acquires the force of sacred rights ill
directing the interell of the public."
The politics of M. Neckar defervetliis charac
ter, they have infuled the genuine spirit of civil
liberty among the people, and the sacred rights
of man are now eftablifliing, and taking root in
the foil of France.
This reply:
" It appears at a moment when the eye of
the nation is fixed upon the author—when patri
utic vows are offered up to heaven, imploring
fucctfs to his measures, and the means conspire
to ensure it."
Never.did the eye of a Nation take a more pro
per or wife direction. The objeift was pointed
out by the finger of Providence, and the prayers
aifered up to heaven were heard and granted.
" This reply appears at atimewhenthofe fen
tiinents, which I lhall retain to my latest breath,
prevents me from aCting in any manner prejudi
cial to the neceflarv confidence which ought to be
placed in the antlior."
M. Calonne, when he wrote this, well knew
that M. Neckar pofleded the full confidence of the
people ; and his fentiinents, when they became
known, so far from prejudicing the cause, spur
red 011 the people to a consummation of their
freedom.
" Such eflential confidence did exist, but was
defeated by unlkilfulnefs, which the public inuft
condemn, and ofcourfe, the author will take ad
vantage of every afliftance that a Ikilful hand can
draw from the experience of blunders."
The advantage drawn by M. Neckar from
the blunders of the French Adminiltration, have
wiped away the oppreflions that aggrieved the
people. When dilniifled, the people recalled him
—when recalled, he accomplished their liberty !
The strongest proof of eflential and reciprocal
confidence.
" To what evils mud France feel herfelf expo
sed, Should I attempt to fruftrate that, which in
consequence of her present circuniftance, is her
only means of support. Should I attempt to de
preciate a meafureto which the nation looks with
ardent hope."
This is vanity iffiiing from weakness, M. Ca
lonne here appears totally ignorant of the great
and extensive plan which M. Neckar had in view
for the emancipation of the French nation. A
plan which the narrow views and mechanical cal
culations of M. Calonne can never frultrate—the
erecting a Temple to Liberty on the ruins of a
despotic government.
" My honor will not relinquish those truths I
have supported, when a future day lhall diflipate
those clouds which threaten to overShadow it. The
reproaches of the public are terrific, but an ap.
prelienfion of their effed: Shall not induce me tepiace my perfonai good in competition with the
interests of the State."
M. Calonne's ideas of the interest of aState are
curious. The State must be supported, as if tlie
people Were njade for the State, andnottheotate,
for the people. But the true interests ot the State
of h ranee are now eltablifhing upon this great and
unerring principle, derived from heaven and in
herent to nature—
Salus Potuli, Supremi Lex!
There is in the National Aflenibly a Committee
\vhich is named le Douzc (the Twelve) wliofe of
fice it is to report to the National AHembly their
researches and information respecting every cir
cumstance which may interell or effect their new
born liberty. A member of this Committee pre
sented oil this day (Saturday) their firft report,
which was refpecfting a Pamphlet published at Pa
ris and v erfailles. It is entitled J\lei/ioires Jttr la
Bajlih, and contains a detail which outrages every
feeling of humanity!
Mr. Clarkfon is gone to renew the bonds which
unite the societies of London and Paris, to en
gage the latter to accelerate the examination of
the common cause, and offer, in the name of the
former, every possible aid by money or otherwise.
As an auctioneer was lately felling some china
and other articles in an old house in Plymouth,
jult as he was knocking down the bufls of Milton,
and was solicitous to have them bought, faying,
" 1 will njt ftaud upon it—'Tis a pretty article,
Geinmen—Agoing agoing, agoing"—Jult as he
pronounced—Gone-—the beams gave way, the
house fell in ; andShakefpeare, Milton, the China,
the Auctioneer, and a large company tumbled in
to the abyss of a beer cellar. Much scrambling
enfucd,not a little fainting, and pulling of caps ;
but, after a great deal of trouble and fatigue,
the whole company got up again, with only a
few broken noses and scratches, except poor Shake,
fpeare and Milton, who both loft their heads in
the affray.
The laws said to be promulgated by the States
of France, are worthy the remarks of this govern
ment, as they point out many errors in our own
laws that ought to be corrected.
Among the religious whimsicalities of the day,
none are more ludicrous, than the National As
sembly of France obliging the Fathers to have
Te Deuni sung in ail the churches, for the abolition
ofTythes.
This day the Jewish ceremony of marriage will
be solemnized in the synagogue in Duke's Place,
between a wealthy Portugueze Jew merchant, and
a young Jewels, who is also very rich.
A magnificent entertainment will afterwards
be given in Whitechapel, by the new married cou
ple ; upwards of two hundred perfonsare invited.
It apears that the charges of these entertain
toents, which are very coltly, are constantly de
frayed by the Bridegroom ; but the presents to
the Elide, made in the evening by the guests,
more than equal the expences of the day.
By a J ewilli merchant arrived here from Con
stantinople we learu that Sultan Selim has put
himfeif at the head of a numerous army, who
proud of their commander, and animated by are'
ligious and patriotic fervor, unknown for many
years to the Mufl'ulmen armies, are preparing to
pour on the Rufiiatls with a fury which they will
mot easily refilt, Before the Sultan took the" com
mand of the troops, he convened the Divan (pri
vy counsel) and addrefled them to this effect :
" My fathers," (said he) have been accustomed
todepofit in the Hafliiey (a treasure under ground)
whatever funis remain after defraying the vear
ly expences of the State. Thisimmenfe treasure
accumulating for many prosperous centuries, and
hitherto untouched, was not certainly intended
by our wife ancestors to remain buried under
ground, but was rather hoarded upas a great and
effectual resource against the day of adversity
again ft dangers such as those which now threat
en the religion and the empire of the MufTul
men."
The Divan afiented to their young Sultan. 1 lie
Haflnev, for the firft time, was exposed to the fun
and pre fen ted a mountain of gold, which dazzled
the eye, and defied the powers of calculation ;
after this, attended by the Mufti, the Cadi, the
great officers of State, by whatever, in short, is
august or venerable in the Ottoman Empire, the
royal warrior went forth, and produced in pub
lic the Keijuak Kerit, or great standard of the
Mufliilman religion. Inflamed with sudden en
thufi fm at the fight of tlie standard, the citizens
flocked round their Sultan, and swore to defend
to the last drop of their blood the religion of God,
and of his prophet. Selim diltributed wich a li
beral hand the treasures of his forefathers ; ex
horted the soldiers and citizens to remember the
valor and the victories of their ancestors ; and
aflured them, that he was determined no longer
to rrr.ft to his Viziers the command of his armies,
but to put himfeif at the head of his troops, and
to pour upon the infidels that terror and conster
nation which never failed to attend the Ottoman
arms, when conducted by his forefathers.
T iut law which leave* the leaf! arbitrary power
of the judge is the molt perfect law.
A Lord Chancellor prefidingin a court of equi
ty, is certainly impcrfect, because there is an ar-
bitrary power in an individual, though there is
an appeal to the Honfe of Lords, but which few
can avail themselves of, on account of the expell
ees ; and if an appeal ihould take place, the Chan
cellor prefidingin that Court mufthaveaperfonal
interelt in supporting his own decision. Why a
jury llionld not decide in equity as well as law,
mult arise from a stretch of ablolute power, ftip
poling an appeal being to the King in the person
of his Chancellor, though the laws point out the
ultimate appeal, which very seldom happens to
the of Peers.—ln its form it is law, but in
its practice tyranny, being left to the erroneous
judgment or wliimfical humour oftenof an obsti
nate individual.
EXTRACT FROM SYMPATHY.
A Poem. By Mr. PRATT.
ONCE, and not far from where those feats are seen,
Just where yon white huts peep the copse between,
A damlel languifh'd, all her kin were gone,
For God who lent, refum'd them one by one i
Disease and penury, in cruel ftrife,
Had ravilh d all the deccnt means of life,
E en the mark'd crown, he r lover's gilt, Ihe gave,
In filial duty for a father's grave,
1 hat so the honor'd clay Which caus'd her birth, I
Might (lumber peaceful'in the facrcd earth,
Chim'd to its grals-green home with pious peal,
While hallow'd dirges hymn the lall l'aiewell;
At length these piercing woes her sense invade,
And lone and long the hapless wanderer flray'd,
0 er the bleak heath, around th' unmeafur'd wood,
L'p the huge precipice, or near the flood ;
She mounts the rock at midnight's awful hour,
Enjwvs the gloom, and idly mocks the (hower;
Now Icon's her fate, then patient bends the knee,
And courts each pitying star to set her free,
Then flarting wilder, thinks those stars her foes,
Smites her fad brealt, and laughs amidst her woes ;
Olt would the chace the bee, or braid the grass,
Or crop the hedge-flower,or diforder'd pass;
Elf , rcftlefs loiter in the pathless mead,
Sing to the birds at 100 ft, the lambs at feed ;
Or if a nclt (he found the brakes a*nong.
No hana of hcr's deftroy'd the promis'di young;
And when kind nature brought the balmy sleep,
1 oo soon Ihe woke to wander and to weep;
Acrol's her bread the tangled treflVs flew,
And Irenzicd glances all around Ihe threw ;
T.i' foul those frenzied glances speak,
And teats of terror hurry down her cheek ;
V et dill that eye was bright, that cheek was fair,
Tho pale the rose, the lily bloffom'd there.
A wandering swain the beauteous Maniac found,
Her woes wild warbling to the rocks aiound ;
A river roll'd bcfide, aghall (he ran,
Her vain (cars flartling at the fight of mm ;
And, save me, God ! my father's ghost! she cry'd,
Then headlong plung'd into the flafhiog tide.
The youth pursues—but wild the waters rose,
And o'er their heads in circling surges close,
Not Heav'n-born Sympathy itfelfcould save;
Both, both, alas! were whelm'd beneath the wave.
And lives the man, who senseless could have flood
To fee the viflim buffet with the flood ?
Whofc coward check no tinge of honor feels,
Flufh'd with no pride at what the Muse reveals ?
If fucji a man, if such a wretch there be,
Thanks to thisaching heart,it is notme.
Hail, lovely griefs, in tender mercy giv'n,
And hail, ye tears, like dew-drops frelh from heav'n ;
Hail, balmy breath of unaffected sighs,
More fweetthan airs that breathe from eaflcrn Ikies ;
Hail, sacred source of fympathics divine,
Each social pulse, each social fibre thine;
Hail, fj mbol of the God, to whom we owe
The nerves that vibrate, and the hearts that glow ;
Love's tender tumult, Fiiendlhip's holy fires,
And all which beauly, all which worth inspires,
The joy that lights the hope-illumin'd eye,
The bill's fupteme that melts in Pity'sfigh,
Atfeflion's bloom quick rulhing to the face,
The choice acknowledged and the warm embrace-
Oh power of powers, vvhofe magic thus can draw,
Earth, air, and ocean, by one centra! law ;
Join bird to bird, to infect. infra link,
From those which grovelup to those which think:
Oh, ever blcft ! whole bounties openintr wide
Fill the vafl globe, fur mortals to divide,
Thy heav'nly favors (Iretch from pole to pole
Encircle earth, and rivet foul to foul! '
VERSAILLES, AUGUST 14.
The King filled the vacant places in the mini
stry on the 4th instant. His Majesty informed the
National Afleinbly of his choice by letter, which
forms oneof the moll precious monuments in the
annals of monarchy. For the purpose of producing
hill greater unanimity in every department of
admimftration, and to prevent the influence of
favor or predilections, the King has ordered that
henccforth all nominations to oflices, employ
ments or church benefices, magistracy, foreign
affairs, war, marine, finance, and the Kino-'s houf
hold, shall be decided in open It was
the King's intention to nominate M. Neckar chief
Mmifter ; but M. Neckar receiving that proofof
his Majesty s confidence with refpectful o-ratitude
begged that he would neither bestow upon him
rank or title. This Minister having demanded of
the King to be relieved of a great part of the fi
nance department, his Majesty has re-eftabliflied
the office of Comptroller-General, and given it
to M. Lambert, whose application and integrity
are already well known. He will unite his labors
with the King 3, 111 presence of M. Neckar firft
mini ter of finances, who with the King's permis
sion lias reserved to liimfelf the royal treasury
and the taking of his Majesty orders for the no
mmation to places and. employments.
I he revolution at Liege, though hidden, has
every appearance at present of being wholly ef
stdiSs:" 1 '"' 1 •" r ,he f,a "
the NATIONAL MONITOR. —No. xxiii
" As all men are tyrants by nature, all Prm ,
covet and grajp at the rights of others ■ the / re Ji'
oj saiety ta. all, can no otherviife be alftireJ // ''
BY THE RESTRAINT OK EACH FROM DOING t7
JURY TO ANY." '
\
W E / re apt , to entertai » an idea that man in,
VV savage itare is wholly relived from th
forms and burthens of fociery: But this arises
from a very cursory view of animal existence
Where life is, there society exists, from the infect
of a lummer's day, to the being that is formed ft r
immortality. It is evident that had the worldinh
original formation, been Hocked with inhabit
ants at once, who were deftitutc of the social prin'
ciple, the globe would long (ince have been de
populated, and become a ufelefsinafs in creation
From the imperfection of the reasoning p 3w !
ers of man in his uncultivated state, he is in the
firft in fiance doubtlels impelled from neceff,t } to
adopt rules and orders for that subordinate fp e .
cies of society in which he finds himfelf placed
But this by no means proves that rules and or.
ders would be unneceflary were mankind exempt
ed from the dominion of thofepaflionswhichdif
turb the peace and happiness of life: For order
is as eflential to enjoyment, as it is to the harmo
ny, and beauty of the Creation.
It has long been a prevailing opinion that the
neceflity of government arises from thewealnefs
and folly of mankind : That it is not calculated
by its effedls to increase the pleasures of life; but
in its very nature is designed to abridge the na
tural privileges and to leflen the joys ofexiftence.
I his sentiment has produced much mifchief to so
ciety, by giving a pernicious bias to the human
mind ; it has weakened the powers of government
by strengthening the innate principle of opposi
tion to all legal reltraints, andif carried toexcefs
or into extensive operation, will never fail tofub
vert the Constitution and the laws of the country
where it prevails.
Mankind are prone to extremes. When the in
famous and degrading doiftrines of the divine right
°f Kings, of paflive obedience, and /ion refiflana,
were exploded, and driven out of every free State.
This dif'covery succeeded ; that the inftitutionof
civil government is not in itfelf eligible, butmuft
be lubmitled to as a measure of necelfity. The
Experience of the United States under their new
Constitution, will if they are wife, refute this
doctrine: For while under a wife andjuftad
miniftration of government, they realize higher
degrees of felicity, than the society of unculti
vated minds can poflibly afford, though exempt
ed from the hostile paflions, theywillbe led to
acknowledge, that so great, so rich afourceof
happiness, as a wife, free, and energetic govern
ment always proves to mankind, must constitute
part of that system which has for its author, the
God of harmony and order.
INTELLIGENCE BY THE LAST MAIL.
BOSTON, October 17.
His Excellency the Governor having received the Proclamation
of the Prcfident of the United States, .has, ia confequencc, and
agreeably toan ancient usage, ifTued his proclamation, appointing
the Dayafligned in the former as a day of public thanks
giving in this Commonwealth.
His Excellency the Governor has preceded his Proclamation by
that of the President of the United States.
It is reported, that Gen. Syt par d, in reviewing a body of mi
litia lately, and directing them to go through their firings, had
his head grazed by a ball, which carried off some of his hair.—
The General without taking any notice of the Matter, ordered
them to reload, to march fix paces and reft their arms. He then
ordered them to ke examined by the non-commiflioned officers,
who found one ofthe pieces, belonging to a man who was brother
to one of those killed in the late rebellion, to be charged with
two balls; on which he was committed to prison. He mufti
however, be discharged, for want of a fufficient proof of his cri
minality.
N E W-H A V E N, October 21.
On Saturday laftthe Legislature of this State, now in
this city, having received information of the approach of the
President of the United States of America, pasTed the following
rcfolve, viz.
General Assembey, State of Connecticut.
New-Haven, Oflober, A. D. 1
In the House Representatives.
Mr. Edwards, Governor Grifwold, Mr. Tracy. Major Haft, Mr-
Dana, Mr. Learned, Mr. Ingerjoll, Col. Seymour, Col. Lefnguit
Col.Grojienor, Mr. Davenport, are appointed, with such gent e
men as the Honourable Council shall join, a committee to p re "
pare and report an addrel'sfrom this Legislature, to the Prenden
of the United States on his arrival in this city, and to mert I|C
Prefidentat fomeconvenient,diftance from said city.and attend lR *
to his lodgings,and to present such address as shall be ordered, an
to attend the President on his journey as far as propriety fha 1:1
their opinion lequire.
Tejl, James Davenport, Clerk-
In the Upper House. . ,
John CheJler, and James Hillhoufe, Esquires, are appomte
committee to join the commktee of the House of Reprefenttw r
Tejl, GeorceWyliys, Secrj.
The Legislature also requested his Excellency the G° verno '
order his company of guards in this city, to attend the como" 1
in cfcorting the President. f .
At the time appointed by the President, the committee pre <■
ed him with the following address :
TO GEORGE WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT of the- UN IT E D STA?E s °f
AMERICA.
IMPRESSED with the sentiments which aniniat
the millions ofour fellow-citizens, We, the eg
flature ofthe State of Connecticut, cannot, on
occasion, be silent.T( our pre fence recalls to our admiration that
affeaiblage of talents, which with impenetrable
secrecy, and unvarying decision, Under the smiles
of Divine I rovidence, guided to vidtory and peace
the complicated events of the late long and ardu
ous war.
The scenes of perilous horror through which
you conducted the American arms, taught your
country and mankind to receive you as t |^ e oreat
eit of heroes. Your sacred regard to the rights
of freemen, and the virtues of humanity, inspir
ed the united voice of all America to hail you as
the firftand wortliieft of citizens.
With grateful veneration we behold the father
of his country—our friend—our fellow-citizen
our supreme magi (Irate.
When peace had succeeded to the viciflitudes
of war, your ardent desire for retirement was
famftioned by the voice of patriotism.
Your country has again solicited your aid, In
obedience to her wilhes, you have facrificed the
felicity of dignified retirement, and have hazard
ed oil thetempeftuous ocean of public life the rich
treasure of your fame. This display of patriot
zeal gives you a new right, to what you before
poflelled, the hearts of all your fellow-citizens.
While we thusexprefs our sentiments, and those
of the freemen whom we represent, we beg li
berty to allure you of our zeal to support your pub
lic administrations.
May the Divine Being, who has given you as
an example to the world, ever have you in his
holy keeping; may he long preserve you, the
happiness and the glory of our country : May
the ailurance, that the government formed under
your auspices will bless future generations, re
joice the evening of your life ; and may you be
finally rewarded with the full glories of immor
tality.'
11l the name and behalf of the Legislature of
the State of Connecticut.
SAMUEL HUNTINGTON, Governor.
To which Address the President was pleased to return
the following atifwer.
To the Legislature of the State of Connecticut.
GENTLEMEN,
COULD any acknowledgments which language 71 light
convey, do juflice to the feelings excited by your partial
approbation oj my paj,} services, and your ajf ettionate
viijhei for my future happiness, I wol/ld endeavour to
thank you :—But to minds difpojed as your's are, it
mill fuffice to observe, that your address meets a mo ft
grateful rrciption, and is reciprocated in allits viijhes
with unfeigned ftneeiity.
If the prosperity of our' common country has in any
degree been pro-,noted by my military exertions, the
toils which attended them, have been amply rewarded
by the approving voice of my fallow citizens. I was
but the humble agent of favouring Heaven, whose be -1
r.ign interfere nee was so often manifefled in our behalf,
and to whom the praif; of viflory alone is due.
In launching aghin on the ocean of events, I have
obeyed a summons to which I can never be ir.fenfible.
When my country demands the facrifice, personal ease
will always be a secondary conji deration.
I cannot forego this opportunity to felicit at: th: Le
gislature ofConneCticut on the pirn ft tig profpeft which
an abundant harvefl presents to its citizens.—May
induflry like theirs, ever receive its reward, and may
the smiles of Heaven, crown all endeavors which are
prompted by virtue, among which it is juflice to efli
mateyour ajfurance of supporting our equal govern
ment. C. WASHINGTON.
New-Haven, Oflober 17th, 1 759.
The Address of the Congregational Ministers of
the city of New-Haven.
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
SIR,
THE Congregational Ministers of the city of
New-Haven, beg leave to make their 1110 ft ref
peiftful address to the President of the United
States. We presume that we join with the whole
collective body of the congregational Paftorsand
Presbyterian Ministers throughout thefc States, in
the most cordial congratulations of themselves, of
their country, and of on your elevation
to the head of the combined American Republic.
As Ministers of the blefled JESUS, the Prince of
Peace, we rejoice, and have mexpreflible pleasure
in the demonstrations you have given of your sin
cere affection towards that holy religion, which
isthe glory of christian States, and will become
the glory of the world itfelf, at that happy per
iod, when Liberty, public Right, and the vener
ation of the MOST HIGH, who presides in the
Universe with a<anoft holy and benevolent Sove
reignty, shall triumph among all the Nations,
Kingdoms, Empires, and Republics on earth.—
We most fincerelv rejoice in the kind and graci
ous Providence of ALMIGHTY GOD, who hath
been pleased to preserve your life, during your
late dangerous sickness, and toreftoreyou to such
degree of health, as gives us this opportunity to
express our joy, and affords us the most pleasing
hopes that your health may be firmly established.
Wc pray the Lord of Hosts, by whose counsels
and wifdomyon have been carried triumphantly
and gloriously through the late war, terminating
in the eftablifhmcnt of American Liberty, and
perhaps in the liberty of all nations, that he
Would be pleased ever to have you under liis holy
proteiflion, continue you a blefllng to Church and
State, lupport you under your arduous cares, and
perpetuate that ellimation and honor, which you
have justly acquired of your country. May this
new and riling Republic become, under your auf
pices,the moil glorious for population, perfection
of policy and happy admin ill ration of govern
ment that ever appeared on earth. And may you,
Sir, having finifhed a course of distinguished ufe
fulnefs, receive the rewai'd ofpublic virtue in the
kingdom of eternal glory.
EZRA STILES,
JAMES DANA, ,
JONATHAN EDWARDS,
SAMUEL WALES,
SAMUEL AUSTIN, jun.
City of New-Haven, o{l. 17 } 1789.
To which the PRESIDEN T was pleased to return
the following Answer.
To the Congregational Ministers of the City of
New-Haven.
gentlemen,
THE kind congratulations contained in your address,
claim and receive my grateful and affettionate thanks.
Rcfpefting, as I do, the favourable opinions of men
distinguished for science and piety, it would be falfe
delicacy to disavow the fatisfailion, which I derive
from their approbation of my public services, and pri
vate condud.
Regarding that deportment, which confijls with true
religion, as the bejl security oj temporal peace, and the
sure mean of attaining eternal felicity, it will be my
earnejl endeavour (as far as human frailty can re
solve) to inculcate the belief and practice of opinions
which lead to the consummation of those desirable ob
jects.
The tender interefl which you have taken in my per•
fonal happiness, and the obliging manner in which you
express yourselves on the reparation of my health, are
so forcibly impressed on my mind as to render language
inadequate to the utterance of my feelings.— If it Jhall
pieitfe the Great Disposer of Events to HJlen to the
pious supplication, which you have presented in my be
half, I trujt the remainder of my days will evince the
gratitude of a heart devoted to the advancement of those
objefls, which receive the approbation of Heaven, and
promote the happiness of our fellow-men.
My be!} prayers are offered to the Thront of Grace
for your happiness, and that of the congregations com
mitted to your care. G. W ASHING TON.
City* of New-Haven, Ottober 1 jth, 1 789.
*1 he citizens of this place were highly gratified by the prrfence
of Ihi President of the United States, who came to
town last Saturday attemoon in good health. The next day he
attended Divine Service in Trinity Chu'ch. His Excellency the
Governor, his Hon. the Lieutenant Governor, Hon.
Roger Sherman, the Hon. the Speaker, of the House of Re
presentatives, with the Tr easu r er, dined with him ;—and at
tended the afternoon Service, at the Rev. Dr. Edwards's Meet
ing.
Early on Monday morning the Pr eside nt fj t out from hence,
ior the Eastern Statts.
I.aft week was received and dcpofitcd in the public Library of
Vai e-Co l 1. ece, a grand and elegant Portrait of the Honorable
ELIHUYALE, Eft}. Governor of Fort St. George in the East-
Indies, from whom the UniveHity in this City received its name.
I his Portrait is the Donation of the Hon. Dudley North, Esq.
of Glcmham in Suffolk, Great-Britain, a Descendant of Governor
Y a le, and a Member of Parliament ; and it was obtained by the
Address of Samuel Bioome, Esq. Merchant, of this City.
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 24.
The addreffesof the corporate, legislative, and
other bodies of our free citizens, to The Presi
dent of the United States, maybe conlidered asfo
many pledges of their affectionate regards to the
Political Father and Savior of his Country—and
of their warm attachment to that Constitution
which he is by their fuffrages appointed to admini
fter—aConftitution which is equally dear to him
—and the adoption of which he appears to con
sider in all his answers to the Addrefles, as the
molt happy and important acquisition to this
highly favored nation.
How important is it that the people of the Uni
ted States lliould be tenacious of their own adopt
ed Constitution, which secures to them and their
posterity, that precious palladium of liberty, afree
and just representation in their National Legisla
ture ! Every attempt that (hall tend to lessen their
veneration for a system, which is supported by
this inestimable right, is a most atrocious offence
against the public freedom and happiness.
The ship Maflachufetts, India-man, of 800 tons
has been furnifhed with the whole of her Canvas
from the Manufactory of Boston.
Old ocean soon Hiall fleets behold,
Eclipsing all in story told.
See Commerce spread the swelling fail !
See our own canvas catch the gale !
And waft to earth's remotest shores,
Th'exuberance of our boundless stores.
The President of the United States,it is sup
posed, will arrive in Boston this day.—Among
other demonftrationsof joy on the occasion, it has
been proposed to have a grand procefllon of the
artifuns and mechanics of that metropolis.
EXTRACTS.
" It is the language of Court fychophants, and
the tools of power in arbitrary governments to
reprei'ent the great mass of the people as licen
tious, untratfiable, and ungovernable—as igno
rant and obstinate ; and that it is only by touch
ing their felfifh passions that they become in any
degree manageable ; that if their fuffrages ar e
not bought, tlieybeftow tliem on persons of their
own calt; men ignorant of the laws, and the Con
ilitution ; ofaleve] ling temper, who facrifice eve
ry consideration to please their creators; who
are perpetually clogging the wheels of govern
ment, and keeping the State in anarchy and con
fullon.
"On the other Viand,in free governments, the
candidates lor power and popularity, the dema
gogues of party,, hold a quite different language.
At the expence of truth, honor and justice, they
extol the people's wisdom and patriotism ; and
while they cry up tlie maxim that' all are born free
anil equal,' they extend the idea to such lengths,
as to create diftimflions and annihilate the rights
of the minority. Knowing that bodies of men are
as susceptible of flattery,as individuals,they daub
the multitude with intemperate praise, till having
inspired falfe sentiments in the minds of the peo
ple, of their own dignity, and importance—of
their being superior to the laws and the Confti
tutien ; the way is prepared for the subversion of
government, and the introduction of despotism.
For unprincipled demagogues are the ltufF of
which the worst of Tyrants are formed.
" It is the glory of our free Conftitutioji that
no law can be made but by the people in their
proxies, or representatives ; and when those lavfs
are made the people are the constituted judges
thereof, on their Jury Tribunals, throughout the
respective States. The privilege of making laws,
and of judging offaid laws (when made) on juries,
coinpofes as it were a rudder, wheiebythe people
ft e'er the vejfel of their own Common
wealth."
(p3" The Speculation signed Jovicularis having been mislaid is the
reason of its not being acknowledged before. —We jhould be glad of a.
further communication from the author, as ice think ins plan notfufficicnt
1y obvious to be iuterejling.
(Pj* WANTED, to complete Files of this paper, numbers 30,40, 43,
44, 46, and 48 : Six pence each will be paidJor eithc of those numbers'
at the office of the Editor. OClober 24.
NEW-YORK, October 24, 1789.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sept. 19, 1 789.
ESTIMATE of the EXPENDITURE
For the CIVIL LIST of the United States, for the Year 1789.
(CONTINUED.)
For the Government of the Wejlcrn Territory.
Dolls. 90ths.
THE Governor, 2,000
Secretary of the Government, 740
Three Judges, at 800 dollars each, 2,400
Suoerintendant of Indian Affairs, Southern De
pat tment, 1000 v
Gographer of the United States, *559°
7,640
Penjxons on the Civil Lift.
") A pension of 2CO dol-
Isaac Van Vert, I Urs pr. annum, to cach,
John Paulding, ypurfuant to an Ast of
Da v id Willi a ms, | of 3d October
J 1788, is 600
Dominique L'Eclise, pr. act of Bth August*
1782, pr. annum, 120
Joseph Tr a v ersi e, pr. act of Bth Augufl, 1782,
pr. annum, 120
Youngcll children of the late Major General
Warren, pr. act of the lft July, 1780, 450
Eldefl foa of do. pr. act of Bth April, 1777, cfti
mated, 600
Youngest son of Gen. Mercer, pr. Ast of the Bth
April, 1777, estimated at 700
JA M» S MCK« Nll Pr B aa ° f ??!> Se P temb / r '
JO.eph B RUSS ELS ) Vj B 3' r " t ' tletltoa P enrion
John Jordan, Cot f dollirs f r ' annum
J ) each* 120
Elizabeth Bergen, pr. act of 21ft Aug. 1789. 53 30
Joseph De Beauleau, pr. act of sth Aug. 1782, 100
RiCHARDGRiDLEY,pr. aftsof 17th November,
*775» °f 26th February 1781, 444 36
Lieutenant Colonel Touzard, pr. act of 27th
October, 1778, 360
George M.White Eyes, an Indian youth,
who was lately under the care of Colonel George
Morgan, at Princeton, New-Jersey, but now in the
city of New-York, educated, pr. act of 13th Octo
ber, 1781 —
The cxpence for one year was 354 82
f , . r 4> 022 5 8
In relation to the prefentgovernment.
Dolls. 100 ths.
For the compensation to the Prefidcnt of the
United States, 25,000
That of the Vice Prefidcnt) 5,000
That of the Members of Congress, computing the
attendance of the whole number from the 3d of
March to the 22d of September, both days inclusive,
two hundred and four days, fay 81 members, at fix
dollars per day, 99,144
1 ravelling expenccs, by «ftimation, there being
no data for accurate calculation, jo.ooo
The Secretary of the Senate, .it the rate of i, 5 00
dollars pr. annum, from the Bth of April, being
the day of his appointment, to the 22d of Sept. 687 50
Additional allowance from the time of appoint
ment to the 22d' of Sept. one hundred and fixty
eight days, at two dollars per day, '
Principal Clerk to the Secretary o£ the Senate,
from the Bth of May, being the day of his appoint- •
ment, to the 22d of Sept. one hundred and thirty
eight days, at three dollars pr. day, 4 ,,
Engrossing Clerk, fame«ime, at two dollars, 276
Chaplain to the Senate, from the 15th of April,
the time of his appointment, to the 22d of Septem
ber, at the rate of 500 dollars per annum, 221
Door-keeper to the Senate, from the commence
ment of the feflion, being the third of March, to the
22d ol September, two hundred a?d four days, at
three dollars per day. gj.,
Meffengcr to the' Senate, from the Bth of April,
the time of flis appointment, to the 22d of Septem
ber, one hundred and Gxtv-eijht days, at two dol
lars per day, g
142,026 5OA Jew THOUGHTS concerning a profer MONEY of ACCOUNT.
BY A GENTLEMAN OF VIRGINIA.
(Concluded. J
TIIE pound weight (or 12 ounces) of gold is
in England coined into 441 guineas, conse
quently, the mint-weight of one guinea is 51 -Jdwt.
and so much gold as is equal in value to 20/'. ster
ling, mull be this again is equal to 26/"8,
Virginia currency, at 33ipr. cent, to 35/4, Penn
sylvania currency, at 66| pi - , cent, and to 35/6J,
New-York currency, at 77J pr. cefit.' in which
several State currencies, thole l'umsare eachequal
to 4 dollars 44J, cents ; therefore, so is the pound
sterling, as indeed it ftarids rated by Congress,
'bating the fraction of a cent ; but the penny
weight of gold Hands,moreover, rated at 89 cents ;
inwhicli proportion, the j- 6 -?| dwt.(orpoundfter
ling) would come to 4dollars j7-®&cents, instead
of 4 dollars 44J- cents, which it ought to be ; so
that altho, if the duties be counted firft in pounds
sterling, (as when they are laid ad valorem) and
then turned into cents at the rate of 4 dollars 44
cents, the calculation would be near the truth,
(bat a little to the diiadvantage of the revenue)
ye,t when the payment comes to be made in the
gold coins of France, Spain, England, Portugal,
or any other of equal finenefs, (by the way, is it
certain that those nations all conform, in their
coins, to one common standard .') an allowance
is to be made of 89 cents for every penny-weight,
which will be greatly to the injury of the 1 eve
nue. It ought to be only cents, or (to speak
exatftly) The penny-weight of gold, ra
ted in Virginia at 5/4 (and 1 believe in the fame
proportion by the other States, according to the
difference of their several currencies) would, it
is true, come to about 89 cents, more exactly to
88i ; but, probably, there is a considerable er
ror in ratingthe penny-weight at 5/4 in Virginia,
and the ounceat£.y 6 8 ; it proceeds fromafup
pofirion that the ounce of standard gold is £.4 ster
ling; but is not this over-rating gold? if the above
calculation be right, that are equal to 20/.
sterling, an ounce is only £.3 17 toi, and at the
difference of 33' i is 3 10 Virginia money,
or 5/2 jl-pr. penny-weight, not 5/4. —Minute frac
tions in the sum total of an account are certainly
not worth regarding; but in fixing by law (if
that be ever neceflary) the value of any weight
of gold or lilver, of which there may be many
repetitions in the payment of one account, it
would seem neceflary to be as exadt as poflible,
lpecially when a rule is prescribed by which ma
ny fucceflive accounts are to be adjusted.
To eftablifli a due equilibrium between the va
lue of. gold and of lilver, is not only neceflary
to prevent a diminution of the revenue, it is
moreover a matter of importance in order to guard
against a speculation otherwise very injurious to
the public ; for if gold be, in proportion to lil
ver, rated at either more or less than it ought to
be, the under-valued metal will all be carried out
of the country, in exchange for the other ; and
that, whether the difference arise from railing
the value of the one above its level, or from de
prefiing that of the other—Perhaps, both theie
causes concur here. Gold, with us, seems, for
the reasons above mentioned, to be over rated,
which furnjfhes an inducement to bring it into
the country in order to exchange it for silver. I
do not pretend to be accurately informed as to the
mint weight of any of the English silver coins ;
yet 1 have forrie reason to believe, that as well sil
ver is under-valued by tlieat r t of Congress to re
gulate the collection of duties, as the gold is
railed ; by the double operation of which, the
undue difference between them is rendered con
siderable. The French and English crown
are also put, 1 observe upon the fame footing in
payment of duties, and for any thing I know this
may be right ; yet I had conceived there was
foine difference in favor of the Engli/h.
See publication 011 this fubjeift in the New-York
Daily Gazette of 24th July. I 789, extracted from
the Freeman's Journal, printed in Philadelphia,
July 22d.
In England oz. of fine silver is valved at 62 d.
-J4 oz. of fine gold at 934 1
Consequently, an ounce of fine silver is 67 3 y
And an ounce of fine gold is 1019,4
1019-54 divided by quotes T : so that
in England gold is to lilver as to 1 ;
whereas in France, Holland, (probably) in Europe
generally, the proportion is only about 14J to 1.
In Virginia, ami (I think) throughout the Uni
ted States the difference is still greater than in
England ; for lilver seems in America to be valu
ed at the fame rate as there ; but 44- oz. of fine
gold are raised to 960 d. sterling ; consequently,
the ounce of fine goldis valued at 10 4 1 7 7 4 sterling,
10474 divided by 6 7 T i quotes ijii-V; so that in
America gold is to silver as Is|4f to 1 ; which is
near 2J pr. cent, higher than the English propor
tion. But, by the late regulations of Congress
the proportion is still farther increased. The
ounce of sterling silver fliould, in our new money,
be equal to 1 dollar, 1 dime, 4 cents and ii of a
cent, yet by tliofe regulations the ounce sterling
of silver, the English crown-piece, and the French
crown-piece are each made equal to 111 cents, or
1 dollar, 1 dime, and 1 cent, altlo the Engliffi
crown be but of an ounce, and the French
crown* less weighty than the English: The En
glish crown (or 114*4 cents x ) is equal to
uri cents. But, the ounce of gold is by the
fame regulations valued at 1 780 cents, instead of
1730® , as according to the English -value of gold
it ought to have been. The ounce troy of jlandard
gold being called 1780 cents, and the fame quntity
of jlandard silver ill, the ounce troy of fine gold
mull: be 194 1 T ? cents, and of fine silver 120 ;
which eftabliihes between gold and silver the pro
portion of i6-i4 to 1. For divided by 120
quotes i6 T -f ; and tliisis nearly 6\ pr. cent, above
the English proportion.
' NOTE.
* I am by no means certain of the ftri£t proportion between
the English and French crown-pieces ; thejuftnefs of the obser
vation here made,depends upon the accuracy of a late experiment,
in which the weight of a French crown was compared with that
of in English. The former was a crown-piece coined 1111785,
and to the eye apparently frefh and undiminifhed ; the £nglifh
piece was coined in the reign of George 1 ft, about 4 grains
worn; the French Was about 6 grains lighter than the English.
This fa& forms at leafl a ttrOng presumption that the mint-weight
of the French crown is less than that of the English.
For the fatts on which the calculations proceed the writer is
chiefly indebted to Sir James Stewart.
CONGRESS OK the UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Wedne'fday the fourth
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An ACT for allowing a Compensation to the
President Vice President of the United States.
BE it enaCled by the Senate and House of Repre
sentatives of the United States of America in Con
grtfi ajfemh/ed, That there/hall be allowed to the
President of the United States, at the rate of
twenty-five thoufanddollars, with the life of the
furniture and other effe'dfs," now in his pofleffion,
belongingto theJUnited States ; and to the Vice-
President, at the rate of five thousand dollars per
annum, in full compensation for their refpecftive
services, to commence with the time of entering
on the duties of their offices refpetftively, and
to continue so long as tlicyfhall remain in office,
and to be paid quarterly out of the Treasury of
the United States.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Hdiife bf Repr'efetitatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Pref dent of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, September 24, 1789. v v t
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
ABSTRACT of JOURNAL of the first session of the SENATE
of the UNITED STATES.
WEDNESDAY, April 15.
(in continuation.)
THE Committee to whom it was referred toconfiderof and re
port refpe&ing the ceremonial of receiving the President, and the
arrangements nectffary for the reception of the Vice-Prcfident,
agreed to the following Report, viz.
41 That Mr. Ofgood, the proprietor of the houfelately occupied
by the President ot Congress, be requested to put the lame, and
the furniture thereof, in proper condition for the refidence&nd
use of the President of the United States, and otherwise, at the
rxpence of the United States, to provide (or his temporary ac
commodation.
" That it will be more eligible in the firft i/iftance, that a Com
mittee of three Members from the Senate, and five Members from
the House of Representatives, to be appointed by the two Houses
refpettivcly,attend to receive the Prcfideirt,at such place as he shall
embark from New-Jcrfey for this city, and cbndu& him without
form, to ths house lately occupied by the President t»f Congress ;
and at such time thereafter as the President shall fignvfy, it will be
moll convenient for him, he be formally received by both Houses.
4 ' That a Committee of two Members from the Senate, and three
Members from the House of Representatives, to be appointed by
the Houses refpe&ively, wait on the Vice President of the United
States, as loon a* he shall come to this city, and in the natne of
the Congress of the United States, congratulate him on his ar
rival."—-Which report was read and accepted.
The Senate proceeded to the consideration of the Report of the
Committee upon rules for conducing business in the Senate, and
after some progress, Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Atril 16.
The Senate proceeded by ballot to the choice of the Commit
tees conformably to the report of the Committee of both Houses,
agreed to the 15th inflant.—Mr. LandgOn, Mr ; . Carroll, and Mr!
Johnson, weie appointed to wajt on the President, and Mr. Ellf
worth, and Mr.Dalton, were appointed to wait on the Vice-Pre
fident.
Ordered, That Mr. Strong, Mr. Izard, and Mr. Lee, be a Com
mittee to report a mode of communication to be observed between
the Senate and House of Representatives with refpeft t6 papers,
bills, and mclTages, and to confer thereon with such Committee
as may be appointed by the Honfeof Representatives for that pur
pose.
The petition of David Ramsay, that a law might pass, securing
to him and hi* heirs r.n exclusive right of vending, &c. his"Histo
ry of the American Revplution," was read.
The Report of the Committee appointed to determine upon
rules for conducing buli'nefs in the Senate, was agreed to. Where
upon,
Resolved, That the following Rules, from No. 1 to No. lq.
inclusive, be observed.
I. The President having taken the chair, and a quorum being
present, the Journal of the preceding day shall be read, to the
end that any miflake may be corrected that shall have been made
in the entries.
11. No member (hall speak to mother, or otherwise interrupt
the butaefs ot the Senate, or read any printed paper, while the
Journals or public papers are reading, or when any member is
lpcaking in any debate.
„ *'"• EVwjtmedfer, when he (peaks, shall address the chair,
itanding in his y.ace, and when he his finilhed shall fit down.
IV. No member (hall (peak more than twieein any one debate
on the fame day, without leave of tbe Senate.
V. When two members rife at the fame time, tbe President
r "i l C 10 speak ; but in a " the member firft
riling shall Ipeakfirft.
y; V^-°" on &all debated, until the fame (hallbe seconded
VII. When action ihall be made and seconded, it (hall be
reduced to writing if desired by the President, or any member
fcalt b7l'b-"r'" table ' v d <cad by th ° Plcfldent ' befo « the fame
VIII. While a queflion is before the Senate, no motion (ball
be received, unless for an amendment, for the previous queA"
or for postponing the main question, or tocomm.it it, ort JO 3 ,
journ. ' °. a .
IX. The previous question being moved and seconded tfc
question from the chair shaH be,- 4 ' Shall the maiti q\ieftio'n h
now put ?" And if the nays prevail, the niain question lhaU n
then be put. ' > ot
X. If a question in debate contain several points anv m* l
may have the foitie divided. . . . ®er
XI. When the yeas and nays (hall be railed for by one fifth of ti
members present, each member called upon (hall, unlets lor fne ?
reasons he beexcufcd by the Senate, decUre openly and unthort d
bates hisafleutor diflent to the question. Jn taking tKe yeas' d
nays, and upon the call of the Ho rife, the names df the me-nlt
lhall be taken alphabetically. . • , frj
XII. One days notice, at least, (hall be given of an intended
motion for leave to bring in a bill.
XIII. Evefy bill fKall receive three readings previous to itj be
ing pal Ted, and the Prcfident (hall give jiotYce at each, whether it
be the firft, second, or third ; which reading (hall-be on three dif
ferent days, unless the Senate unanimously direttothei wife
XIV. No bill lhall be committed 01 amended until it lhall have
been twice read after which it ma'v be referred to a Committee
XV. All committees (hall be appointed by ballot, and a pluralt
ty of votes (hall make a: choice.
XVI. When a member (ball be called so order, he (hall fa
down until the Prefidcnt (hall have determined whether he is j n
order or not; and every question of order (hall be decided bv
the Prudent, without debate : but if there be a doubt'in liis mind
he may call for the sense of the Senate. ;
XVII. If a member be called to order for words spoken th°
exceptionable words (ball be immediately taken down in writ
ing,that the President may be bcttercnablrd to judge of the matter
XVIII. Wheti a blank is to be filled, arid different'films' lhall
be proposed, the question (hall betaken on'{he fiigheft sum firft;
XIX. No member (hall absent himfeif from the service of the
Senate, without leave of the Senate fiift obtained. Adjourned
FRIDAY, April 17.
The petition of Leonard Bleecker, to be appointed Serjeant a'
Arms, was read, and ordered to li£ on the table. Adjourned
SATURDAY, April 18.
A letter from the Speaker of the House to the Prcfident was
read, enclosing a concurrence of the House with the refo've of
theSenatc of' the 15th. upon the mode of Conference between the
Senate and lleprefcntativcs ; alfd a concurfencefiponthe
mode of Chaplains. ; ■■
On motion, Refuhtd, That the following be subjoined to the
(landing orders of the Scnat#.
20th Rule.
Before any petition or memorial, addrefled to the Senate, (hall
be received and read at the table, whether the fartie (hall be intro
duced by the Prefidcnt or a member, a brief statement of the con
tents of the petition or memcfrial (hall verbally be made by the
introducer. Adjourned.
MONDAY, April *20.
The Hon. John Henry, from the (late of Maryland, produced
his credentials, and took his feat in the Senate.
The Hon. James Gunn, from the state of Georgia, produced his
credentials and took his feat in the Senate. v
On motion, Resolved, That Mr. Strong and Mr. Izard be a com
mittee ro wait on rhe Vice-President, and conduct him to the
Senate Chamber. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, April 21.
The Committee appointed on the 20th instant, confiding of Mr.
Strong and Mr. Izard, to conduct the Vice President to the Senat
e executed their commiflion ; and Mr. Langdon, thePre
fident pro tempore, meeting the Vice President upon the iloorof
the Senate-Chamber, addrefled him as follows :
SIR,
I HAVE it in charge from the Senate, to introduce you to the
Chair of this House; and also to congratulate you on your if
pointment to the Office of Vice Prcfident of the United States of
America.
After which Mr. Langdon conduced the Vice President to the
Chair, when the Vice President addrefled the Senate.
[For the Vice President' s Speech, fee our paper of the 22dof April]
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22.
On motion, the sense of the Senate wrs taken, Whether in the
choice of a Chaplain, they shall be confined to the lift of such gen
tlemen as may be previously nominated ?—Pafled in the negative.
Agreed, That Saturday next be afligned to proceed to the elec
tion of a Chaplain, and that in the mean time, the Members beat
liberty to make their nomination.
The petition of William Finnie, praying that he might be ap
pointed Serjeant at Arms, was read. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, AI'RIL 23.
The Committee appointed on the x 6th of April, toreportamode
of communication to be observed between the Senate and Houfeof
Reptefentatives, with refpeft to papers, billsand melTaees, and to
confer thereon with such Committee as may be appointed, by the
House of Reprcfentativcs for that purpose, have conferred with a
Committee of the House, and have agreed to the following Report:
When a bill or other meflage (hall be sent from the Senatetotbe
House of Representatives, it lhall be carried by the Secretary, who
(hall make one obeifanceto the Chair oh entering the door of the
Houle of Representatives, and another, on delivering it at the table
into the hands of the Speaker—After he (hall have delivered it, fie
(hall make an obeisance to the Speaker, and repeat it as he retires
from the House.
When a bill (hall be sent up by the House of Representatives to
the Senate, it shall be carried by two Members, who, at the bar ot
the Senate, (hall make their obeifanceto the President, and thence
advancing to the Chair, make a second obeisance, and deliver it
into the hands of the President—Aster having delivered the billj
they (hall make their obeisance to the President, and repeat it as
they retire irom the bar : The Senate Shall rife on the entrance ot
the Members within thebar,and continue stand ing until they tftire.
All other meflages fropi the House of Representatives, lhall be
carried by one Member, who (hall make his obeisance as above
nentioncd : but the President of the Senate alone, (hall ril#.—Rea
md accepted.
On motion, Resolved, That a Committee, confining of three
Members, be appointed toconfidei and report, what Style or Tu »
it will be proper to annex to the office® ol President and of V"*
President of the United States—if any other than those givenin t -
Constitution. Alio to consider of the time, place and manner rtn
which, and the person by whom the oath prelcribed by the Con 1
tution, (hall be administered to the President; and to con
on with such Committee as the House of Representatives lna ap
point for that pUrpofe.—Mr. Lee, Mr. Izard, and Mr. W
were chosen. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, APRIL 24. ,
On motion, The question was taken, Whether the report ol
Committee upon the mode of communication between the tw
Houses of Legiflatdre, as yeftefday read and accepted in t
nate, shall at this time be lent to the House of Reprefentauvc.
Palled in the negative. • , ec
On motion, To raconfider the commiflion ot the Com lll '
appointed the 23d instant, to report what Titles (hall be ann
:o the Offices of President and Vice Prefident —Pafled in
..,< c
On motion, That the following words, t( What Titles it wi
proper to annex to the offices of President and ol Vice Pre l
the United States—if any other than those given in the 0
tion," be struck out—Pafled in the negative. <«Title,"
On motion thatthe words <c Style ar," before the wor
be added— Pafled in the affirmative. Adjourned.^
I Publiflied by JOHN FENNO, No. '
iiXN±','nearthe (ifiiegi-Mark'tt, Nsw-Yo'*k.—[3®"'