[No. L.]
THE TABLE T.—No. L.
« There is a propensity in mankind to refifl as well
is to enforce dominion."
PERHAPS there is riot more nicety in any
question, than -whether men are more a
verse to obey than to be obeyed Few dispositions
are naturally prone to give obedience, and pro
bably as few are willing to relinguifh it. From
this original fountain have flowed perpetual
llreams of oppreflion 011 the one hand and sedi
tion on the other. The secret of curbing the ex
cefl'es ofthefe propensities is found to conlilt in a
well-balanced, well-administered government,
and it admits of no other remedy. Reason, re
ligion, benevolence, good humour, patriotism
and every other ufeful attribute, that can be na
med are utterly inadequate to the purpose of re
straining the turbulent spirit of man from enor
mities.
As the propensity I am fpeakingof is a natural
one itdifcovers itfelf moll strongly among men
least removed from a state of nature. A lavage
has more of it than can be found in any poflible
itage of civilization. Tho the objects, about
which his will is exercised, are few and limited,
vet wherever he fixes a purpose he disdains re
iiftance. This love of rule and hatred of oppo
sition likewise break out, with far greater fury,
among the lowest and vilell part of the communi
ty, than among the sensible and enlightened.
The cruelty of a waggoner over his liorfes is in
comparably greater, than any acfts of severity
that are ever exercised by a man, who moves in
a higher sphere of life. Overseers of negroes
and other laborers discover a temper more domi
neering and wrathful, than can often find a
place in the breasts of tliofe whole employment
is lei's servile.
When a monarch or other elevated characters
discover an arbitrary, opprelfive difpolition, they
excite the attention and complaints of the world.
The infamy of their conduit is perpetuated and
mankind are warned against such evils. But
there are many persons wliofe whole life is a scene
of cruelty and revenge, and yet whole enormi
ties pals unpunished or unregarded. The fa&is,
■ man is too ferocious a being to be let loose. In
many refpedis the law reflrains him. There are
however a thouland instances which the law can
not reach, where men exhibit flriking demon
strations that one of the moll natural features of
the human character, is the love of enforcing as
well as refilling dominion. The propensity to
do both is so active and llrong, that no compari
foncan be drawn to fettle the quellion, which is
the moll universal and irrefillable. From tliefe
Iketches we deduce the necellity of checking the
extremes to which the different lituationsof men
are liable. Men in power mult be rellrained,
and so mull men out of power. One will other
wise be licentious and outrageous, the other op
prelfive and tyrannical. Tliefe hasty remarks
are introductory to a more copious difcullion oi
the fubjeift, which may probably be brought for
ward in foine future speculation.
NEWPORT, SEI'TEMIER 24.
THE following Address of the Society of Cin
cinnati in this State, was lately presented to his
Excellency the Prefidentof the United States, by
the Rev. Dr. Manning :—To which his Excellen
cy was pleased to return the answer thereunto an
nexed.
To the PRESIDENT rf~7he UNITED STATES.
SIR,
EXPRESSIONS of refpe<sl and attachment are a
tribute which thecitizens erf Americaowe to your
prudence, your patriotism, and valor ; to the fuc
cefsfuldifplayof which, they are already indebt
ed for their freedom ; and from a continuance of
the exercifeof thole qualities they may anticipate
the highest state of political happiness : under
these impreflions, Sir, we the society of the Cin
cinnati of the State ofßhode-Ifland, molt sincerely
congratulate you upon your appointment to the
chiefniagiftracy of the Union, by the unanimous
fuffrage of more than three millions of free citi
tens ; an appointment rendered the more digni
fied by the manner in which it was contered,and tin
more pleasing to your fellow-citizens from a con-
T 'ftion that they could nowhere place the sacred
deposit, for which they have so long and ardu
ouily contended, with equal fafety to themselves,
and honor to their country. We cannot help ex
prefling at the fame time the ftrongobligatiops we
'eel for the facrifice of domcftic ease and retire
me nt, to which we are sensible the iove of your
country alone could have prompted you—and
although we are not admitted to a participation
or the good effects of the government over which
so deservedly preside, ver we fondly flatter
SA sUNDAY, 1739.
ourselves that the period is not far distant, 'when
the mistaken zeal which has lately prevailed in
this State, will give way to a more enlightened
policy. We can only add, Sir, our ardent wishes
for your health and happinefe. Long, long may
the United States be blefled with a life to which
they are so highly indebted, and may the close of
your days be as peaceful and happy to yourfelf,
as the meridian of them has been ufeful and glo
rious to your country.
ISAAC SENTER, President.
Robert Rogers, Sec'ry.
Rhode-Island, September 3, 1789.
To the President and Members of the Rhodc-l/land
State Society of the Cincinnati.
GENTLEMEN,
IN returning my grateful thanks for the flat
tering and affetftionute sentiments exprefled in
your address of the 3d instant, I beg you will do
justice to the fincericy of my regard, which reci
procates, with great pleasure, the warmed wishes
for your happiness, political and personal.
Under a persuasion of the candor and support
of my fellow-citizens, I yielded obedience to the
voice of my country—and imprefled with a sense
of duty, I forfook the pleasures of domestic retire
ment, to promote (if my best exertions can have
such tendency) the object of a dearer interest—
Those expectations of support have been amply
fulfilled, and fnv fondeft hope of their candor
has been gratified by a kind and partial country.
I am much pleased, Gentlemen, with the hope,
which you entertain, that mistaken zeal will give
way to enlightened policy—and I desire to repeat
to your society, alliirances of the most affectionate
esteem. GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Utiited States, September 14, 1789.
MARIA ANTONIETTA of Austria, QUEEN
of FRANCE,
TO THE NATION.
MY heart was yet bleeding at the loss of a
Prince to whom I had given birth, when it was
allailed by sorrows of a much more diltreffing
nature. All France was in tears, groaning under
the weight of oppression : The horrors of an ap
proaching famine had nearly reduced the people
to despair, and I hear my name mentioned "with
murmuring and impatience—Suddenly I was in
formed that all Paris was in arms, and that fire
and sword were desolating the capital—ln a mo
ment I saw my court disperse and fly far awaj
from me. My royal consort hallened immedi
ately to his good city, carrying thither at leafl: thai
internal peace which the purity of his principles
has always made him to enjoy, and which th«
consciousness of his love for his people made him
certain of imparting to them—but nothing could
quiet my tender feelings, alarmed for the citizens
of Paris and for all France, whose universal de
solation filled my heart with unutterable distress.
Thus forfaken and reduccd to the most de
plorable situation, I shut myfelf up with my chil
dren—l prefled them a tlioufand and a thousand
times to my bosom—l mixed my tears and bittei
cries with their infant waitings ; in their tender
and innocent carelles I could find some alleviation
to my %wn misfortunes, but those of the nation
left me inconsolable.
A Princess, whom Heaven has formed and be
llowed on mortajs for the liappinefs of all those
to whom her cares may extend, and for the fa
tisfa(ftion of all who know her, the mast tender
and affectionate of women, came and mixed liei
tears with mine.—YeFrenchmen! Ihe is my cou
lin —the Duchess of Orleans, (with the live
liest gratitude I mention her name, the found oi
which is as grateful to your ears as her amiable
person is dear to your fouls). The Duchess of
Orleans opened her heart to me.—What an inex
haustible source of riches and consolation was
there ! O what a powerful support against mis
fortunes, a woman, nay, even a reigning Princess
may find in a virtuous friend ! May this holy
truth be forever deeply engraved in the heart of
every mortal woman who is deltined to fit upon
a throne. —It will teach her how difficult it is,from
that exalted feat, to make a proper choice of
friends ; it will lay open to her the falfehood
antl treachery of courtiers, andpreferve her from
the dangerous poison which infects every court.
As fincereas she is tender, endued with courage
equal to her sweetness and gencrofity, this true
friend, in the effufion of her foul, could not dis
semble from me that, I was loudly accused by the
nation to be the author of its calamities.—How
lively and moving were her expressions ! —What
a language they fpokc to my heart ! —lt was op
prefled. —It was torn with grief.—Nothing less
than the affectionate and unwearied cries of that
Princess, could have made me bear so rude a ihock
without expiring with grief.
[. (jti Wednesday and Saturday
O ye, whose wife discernment has never fuffer
ed yon to remain long under any error ! Ye just
and enlightened nation ! YcFrehch men ! whose
name alone is the elogium of your minds ! Ye
people, cherished by the Princess who enjoys the
inei'timable advantage of reigning over you, and
who now addreflesyou with a confidence that is
due to you on 'so many accounts ! Ye models of
love for your Sovereigns as well as for your
country! Ye heroes ! whose great and valiant
fouls have made you so often fhedyour blood for
those Sovereigns as well as for that country !Can
it then be poifible that you have not known —that
you have forgot your Dauphinefs, who pofl'efies
all your tenderness, and who ever since has so
sincerely loved you ? Ever since the alliance which
has united her to the Prince who has afterwards
become your King until this melancholy seta,
when her misfortune compels her to juftifyher
felf, she never ceased to cherish you—(he had a -
dopted you from inclination, as Ihe had your Au
guit Dauphin. Yes, ye Frenchmen, in allying
myfelf to you, I had placed all my felicity as well
as all my glory in one day sharing his throne and
reigningover your hearts. Inthe teftinionies of
love which I received from you with so much fa
tisfacftion, and the remembrance, of which will
ever be infinitely deartoine, be lure that you ex
prefled no more than a just gratitude. Ever since
the crown has been placed on the head of my
Royal Consort, my heart never ceased to be filled
with those sentiments ; they are invariable as
their nature —as their principle :—1 will preserve
and cheriih them until the Divinity is pleased to
call me to his bosom ; here let me renew the solemn
promise, to which I swear by the sacred and pre
cious title of Queen of Ffance.
But I will confirm to you with my own mouth,
this promise so pleaftng to my heart—l will go
into the bosom of the capital, and there expand
my foul into that of the nation : I will let them
fee all my grief; and 1 sincerely wish that fame
nation may bring back serenity and joy. My
principal with is to persuade the people, that it
will be the important business of my whole life,
to promote their felicity with all my power. Ah!
may I one day make them forget, that, deceitful
courtiers ; ministers without honor and without
faith ; public plunderers of all kinds, infhort, an
odious, cruel and bloody junto had prepared
their ruin ! Oh ! How happy I lhali then esteem
myfelf ! But I shall never eejoy either tranquility
or fatisfaiftion, until the moment when I shall
have carried into the minds of that most amiable
and most loving nation, that degree of convicftion,
which will restore and ensure to me for ever the
hearts of all my dear Frenchmen.
Let us diflipate our alarms and our fears ; let
us strengthen, by frefh mutual afliirances of re
ciprocal tenderness, the bands that unite us to
each other ; let us render them indifloluble ;
let all the unfortunate apply tome with unbound
ed confidence !—they will find my heart ever open :
I will pour into theirs, every consolation which
beloved children have a right to expecft from a
tender and affectionate mother whom they love :
I will be eager to give them all the afliftance in
my power ; —I will be their patroness and their
support ; —I will love to weep and grieve with
those that grieve and weep; I will find an infinite
sweetness in wiping off their tears, and I will place
my happiness in drying up the source of them.
Placed on the throne of France, my ainbition.ftill
prompts another fond wish, which will fully fatif
fy my heart : it is, that all Frenchmen maycon
fider me as their best friend.
A wife and economical minister is restored to
us: the restorer of affairs is coming ; perhaps
he hears me at this moment: our misfortunes are
then going to vanish : we may rely on his zeal
and care, as well as on the love of our King for
his people.
EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS, BY THE LAST ARRIVALS.
VIENNA, JULY 8.
An Austrian officer, who arrived here the 3d
instant. in quality of a cotirier from Semlin,
brings the important news that the Ruffian fleet,
under Admiral Wainowich, had attacked and
completely defeated the firft division of the
Turkifhfleet, near Beflarabia. The division had
under its convoy some transports with provisions
for the Grand Vizier's army, which are captur
ed by the Ruffians. After destroying and dif
perling the Turkilh Ihips, the conquerors made
a descent npon the coast, and reduced Kalat and
Ketftaga to ashes by lire.—This vidlory is the
more important, as. it will tend tooccaficn afcar
city of provisions in the Ottoman army.
News of the above event has caused great con
fternatiou in Cpnftantinople, where the guards
are doubled, and cannon drawn upon the banks
of the Canal to rtfiii the approach of the Ruffians.Ihe ship Alexander belonging to the Turks,
'which was destined to burn the Ruffian fleet, and
which failed for Oftend, laden with merchandize,
foundered on the 7th of lalt month, on the north
coast of Holland, and all the cargo was loft, but
the crew were saved by a fi/hing vefl'el.
PARIS, JULY 9.
The National Aflembly has at length resolved
that the Island of St. Domingo ihall fend fix de
puties to Parliament.
LONDON, JULY I/.
Previous to M. Neckar's dismission, M. de Mira
beau retraced his charge of impeachment against
him, as being the principal cause of the present
scarcity of corn. It feeins that M. de Mirabeau
had been informed that the States of America had
offered to supply France with grain, which was
contraditfted by a letter written from Mr. Jeffer
fon, the American minister at Paris. Hewas im
pofedon, it is said, by some invidious persons to
ruin the character of M. Neckar ; this retracTtion
is, however, no apology for his rashness in al
ledging a grievous charge on such a flight founda
tion;
July 18. By the Custom House books it ap
pears, that the duty on tobacco, from the 4th of
April, 1788, to the sth of April, 1 789, amounted
to four hundred and ninety-eight thousand and
twenty-one pounds, seven /hillings, and two pence
halfpenny, and that the tea for the fame time
only produced one hundred and twelve thousand
and one hundred five pounds, one /hilling, and
two pence. What a fund America fufplies !
July 23. During the tumults in Paris, M.
Labut, a private gentleman, gave 500,000 livres
to aflift the patriots, and at ihc fame time offered
his five children as volunteers in the cause.
The Marquis de la Fayette ordered the Baftik
to be entirely demolijhed without consulting the
King. Amotion was made in the Town hall, to
erect on the spot where the Baftile flood, a Statue,
to be dedicated to Louis XVl—inferibed to the
Father of his people, and the Refiorer of Liberty !
A GENEROUS PROPOSAL!
Were England in the situation France is,
and the blue and buff mob as formidable as the
Parisian Canaille, our East and Weft India pos
sessions would be snatched at by our Gallic neigh
bours. Why then flionld we tamely look on,and
not profit by the wretched state of France ? They
would fliew us no quarter in the fame situation.
JULY 24.
Marshal has written to the Emperor,
to inform him that he expecfted there would be
a practicable breach in the wallsof Berbir by the
27th ult. and it was his intention to storm the;
fort, least, if he should wait to take it by regular
approaches, hefhould lose so much time that the
enemy might be able to fuccourit. The place
is garrisoned chiefly by Bofniacks. The houses
had been almost all beat down by the Marshal's
artillery, when the last letters left the camp be
fore Berbir. The forces employed in this siege
amount to 26,000 men.
ENGAGEMENT between the SWEDES and RUS
SIANS.
On the second of July, a courier arrived at
Stockholm with letters from the King to the
Queen,giving an account that on the 28th of June,
about seven in the morning, his Majesty fell in
with a body of Ruffians, amounting to 3600 men,
near Uddemalm, two Swedifli miles from David
ftadt.
That the left wing, under Lieutenant General
Platen, began to attack the enemy immediately,
and the atftion became general and very hot on
both fides, although the Swedes were but 2100 in
the whole ; but they soon drove the Ruffians,
and took poflion of their camp.
The regiment of Weftermanland fuffered the
most, having one officer killed and twowounded.
Ihe whole loss of the Swedes amounted to 120
killed and wounded. The Ruffians loft twice the
number.
The King of Sweden, who only acted in the
affair as a volunteer, contributed greatly to the
success of the day. After tliefirftfiie, the Swedes
took to their old method of charging with the
bayonet ; and Major Paultman, who, by march
ing roundin the enemy's rear, distinguished hiin
lelf greatly, was made a Lieutenant Colonel on
the field The King ordered the troops to reft
eight hours, and then to proceed to follow the
enemy. His Majesty is going on to Williamftrand,
in order to fee those orders executed, which he
has given forattacking the enemy in every quar
ter, both by land and sea.
Copy of a letter from the King of Sweden to the
Crown Prince.
MY PEAR SON,
I received two letters from you since my leav
ing Stockholm, for which I thank you.
I would not answer them before, because I had
not seen the enemy.
Theirtroops, however, have fought well, but
out s better. This news must excite you to prove
worthy of commanding such a generous and brave
people. lam in health, and always your affec
tionate Father, GUSTAVUS.
On the Field of Battle, at UdJemlm. the sßt't of June, 1789.
The Crown Prince will !>e only eleven vears
old the firft of next November,
We have just received an account thai anothei
action has taken place becwen the Ruffians anc
the Swedes in Finland, in which the latter were
defeated.
General Michelfon, notwitliftanding the check
he received frow Col. Steding, who forced him to
retreat to Christina, having been reinforced from
Williamftranit,. renewed his attack of Fort St.
Michael.
Col. Steding was obliged to fall back to a place
at some distance, where General Siegroth lay
with a body of 4000 of the Swedi/h army.
The Ruffians followed, and a battle ensued.
General Siegroth, after a 1110 ft vigorous resist
ance, was obliged to give way, with the loss of 600
men killed and 400 wounded.
St. Michael fell into the hands of the Ruffians.
The loss of this fort will be the most lenfibly
felt by the Swedes, as it was the depot of all the
provisions and stores for their army in the pro
vince of Savolox, and which are now in the pos
session of the Ruffians.
The Swedes fought with great intrepidity :
Tho driven from poll: to poit they never fled ; and
when they were at last obliged to give up the con
test, they retreated in very good order.
They repulsed the Ruffians in two different at
tacks ; but the were forced at the third to bend
under the weight of superior numbers.
This action took place on the fixteeutli of last
month.
To compleat the misfortune of the Swedish
anny, thirteen transports laden with provisions.
and stores for the use of that army, have been
loft on the rocks near Norkoping. One of tliefe
veflels had 011 board the medicine chests destined
for the use of all the ihips composing the Royal
Fleet at Carlfcrone.
August j. We have received advice that tho
Selim 111, seemed from the firft day of his reign
to breath nothing but vengeance againll Austria
and Rnffia, and a continuance of war againll
these two powers, this young Prince has very
lately {hewn symptoms of adifpofition to peace.
The cause of those symptoms are not generally
known. Some attribute them to the defeat of the
firft division of the Turkish fleet, which mult ren
der it next to impossible for the Ottomans to re
cover Oczakow.—Others to the flow butfure pro
gress of the confederates.
Extract of a letter from Elfncur, Jul}' 25.
"We have received certain advice that the
Peterfburgh fleet of men of war, 40 in number,
were off Gothland, in the Baltic,the 20th current,
and that the Swedish squadron was at the fame
time eastward of Bornholm."
August 6. The flame of liberty is appearing
in Spain ; and we should have wondered if it
had not ;it is too active in itfelf to be longer
dormant, and the example of the firft branch of
the House of Burbon will be too powerful not
to be followed. Many of the Municipalities have
made application to the Governors of the respec
tive provinces to establish their ancient Cortez or
Aflemblies. It may require years before the spi
rit becomes so general as to bring the people ( into
action ; but the {'park is kindled and the Court
has taken the alarm. We have even heard that
the King apprehends the old oath, binding him
to aflemble the Cortez may be tendered to him
at his coronation, and that ceremony has been de
layed from this apprelienfion.
In Flanders the people are much discontented.
The ostensible reason for their murmurs and
diflatisfa<tion is the deprivation of their Tergref
fes (fairs) by the Emperor's orders; but a ipirit
of liberty has for some time been in embryo in
these provinces, and thefituation of France, and
the Emperor's declining state of health, pro
mifethe Flemifliari opportunity of aggrandizing
themselves too glaring to be over looked, and too
precious to be neglected.
August 7. By accounts received in town yes
terday, we learn, that M. de Mefinay, who blew
upfo many of his neighbours at Vefoul, is taken,
and certainly in the hands of justice.
The National Aflembly have proceeded a con
siderable way in the modeling of their constitu
tion, and we rejoice to hear from the best inform
ed men in this kingdom, that their wisdom and
intelligence on this fubje<ftare estimated as high
ly as their spirit andfirmnefs in the great struggle
which brought their Monarch to submission.
Under the article of the " Droits du Roi," they
acknowlege that the dignity of the Crown is es
sential to the welfare of the empire ; but its splen
dor and establishment should be derived from the
people ; and that the King has not, and ought not
to have patrimonial estates of his own,applicable to
the support of his houfhold ; that therefore there
iliould be established a Civil Lift, to be granted
by the nation ; and that the annual sum thus ap
propriated to the maintenance of the Crown
should, to manifeft the loyalty and liberality of
r renchmen, be larger than the fuin hitherto ta
ken and enjoyed by the King
Under the article of « Organization et Fonc
t'ons de I djfembl,; Nat,on ale," the committee re
port that in their opinion the Assembly should
consist of twolioufes.
That the Clergy and Nobletfe should compose
one house. Ihe Commons another.
The Clergy to be represented by the Arrl,v,i.
and BUhops—The inferior Clergy to b P ?° P!
Third Estate, and be eligible ?> (it
S " PU ""' C ° mmon Wit
The Noble(le to be represented by tI IP p ,
of Houses only, being so numerous-Thatch
shall be a limitted number chosen to reprefentth'
whole, until the body lhall be reduced i 0 f,
tarn number The younger sons to be eIS
to lit in the Commons House as Deputies
August 10. The last meflenger from P ar i s
who arrived at the Duke ofLeed's Office, Whi"'
hall, travelled without the least interruption • £
that order is beginning to return in other part!
or r ranee as well as the capital.
Since M Neckar's return, the French stocks
have rilen foilr per cent.
THE SEA-FARING BACHELOR.
SO lohg harrafs'd by winds and seas,
Tis time, at length, to take your cafe,
And fcek a bride—for few can find
The sea a mistress to their mind.
In all your rounds, 'tis wound'rous ftran»e
No fair one tempts you to a change— °
Madncfs it is, you mull agree,
To lodge alone till forty-three.
Ola Plato own'd, no blefling here
Could equal love—if but sincere ;
And writings penn'd.by Heaven, have Ihown,-
That man can ne'er be bled alone.
O'er life's meridian have you pafs'd ;
The night of death advances fact !
No props you plant for your decline,
No partner sooth tlrcfe cares of thine.
If Neptune's fclf, who rul'd the main.
Kept fca-nymphs there to cafe hispain;
Yourfclf, who Ikim that empire o'er,
May fafely keep one nymph on fhorc.
Myrtilla fair, in yonder grove,
Has so much beauty, so much love.
That, oil her lips, the meaneftfly
Is happier far than you or I.
THE NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XXI.
" May the foul breath of Scandal never blast
The ripening Fruits of government and peace :
But may mankind from our Example learn,
That laws and Freedom can united reign."
THE real sentiments of the people can not bt de
termined by the interefied declamations of party ; the
sneers of the envious, or the complaints of the difaf
pointed. —A party,fattious spirit rejeffs with difdiir,
the soothing voice of candor, and the tedioufnefs of
cool examination. —The envious man will never want
fubjells to torment him, or to txcite his malevolence ;
and it is extrejnely difficult to fatisfy the disappointed,
that their jujl claims are not overlooked. A wife ai
minijiratioti mill therefore look beyond these, and ma
ny other descriptions ofcharafitrs which might bi menti
oned, to ascertain the solid judgment of the people.—
For while on the one hand, it will be attentive to ever)
f'ggeflion that may pofibly affeCl the genera/welfare ji
on the other it willrije superior to the railing accufi
tions of those, who discover a total incapacity to judge
on political fubjeCls, and inflead of discovering age
nuine spirit of patriotism, endeavor to excite jealait
fies, dijfatisfallion and sedition.
Congress having adjourned, the recess will afford t
favorable opportunity to the members, of learning the
free, unbiassed opinions of their conflituents. —Hav-
ing in an open and prompt manner conduced their
deliberations, and upon such principles as they conceiv
ed to be just, enatted a number ojf laws, which have
an intimate connexion with the essential interefls if
their ccnflituents —the appeal is now made, not to tht
querulous, the suspicious, and the carping minority,
but to that calm intelligence, that magnanimity of
thinking, which diflingutfh the great majority of the
people of these States.
Their jujl observations will be duly attended to,anl
their righteous expectations fulfilled; and there is ni
doubt, but that every alteration will be made, and eve
ry arrangement adjufled, which the real and lasting
benefit of the people may require.—For notwithfunding
what may be asserted to the contrary, it is equally the
inclination as it is the interefl of the rulers of a free
people, to pursue such meafurcs as will conciliate the
good will of an enlightened majority of the citizens.
INTELLIGENCE. BY THE LAST MAIL.
Kingston, (jamaica) august 12.
We learn from Grenada, that the cotton ciop
has been equal to any reaped for years part; ul
among the lilands dependent on the government
of St. Vincent, together with Martinique, t e
caterpillars have totally destroyed the promi ing
appearance the planters had before them.
Trinidada, the crop is utterly ruined by
pernicious vermin, and the bark eaten off the tre
BOSTON, SETT. 2?. .
From a computation of the amount or 1 P
for two or three years lalt part ; arK ' r
proceeds in some of the Custom-Houses, it IS
timated that the import will nett 2,5 ,
lars per annum. Thecivillift expences,
ing the executive, legriflative,, and jndicia ,
rimated at 350,0 o d >llars per annum. " - n
•ladelphia, itis laid, the collection has ■ e
the firll month after the Import Law too'" 1 |
55,000 dollars—ln New-York upwards 04 1
And the second month will be much gieatei.On Monday last, at half past 12 o'clock, the
ship Massachusetts, of 800 tons,was launched
at tiraintree, in the view of above fix tlioufand
jpectators —whom the scene—the agreeable and
rural lituation of the place where lhe was built
and the finenefs of the day drew together, from
this and the bordering towns. Of this number,
the ladies made not a small part, and being seated
on the neighboring hills, and the banks of the ri
ver as far as the eye could reach, formed as beau
tiful a profpecftas could well be imagined. What
added to the pleasure of the fpeftators was, the
order which reigned among Lhe workmen, and the
perfedt neatness with which the ihip flipt fron
her ways into her devoted element.
September 24. A brilliant action Was perform
ed yelterday 011 board the Leopard, of 74 guns,
belonging to the French fleet, now in this har
bour: A cabin boy, belonging to the ship, un
fortunately fell into the water, and was in the
utmolt danger of being drowned ; the First-Lieu
tenant, Mr. Scotts, happened at that moment,
to be walking the quarter-deck, when he was
informed of the accident—the calamity was ur
gent —and he accordingly, without waiting to
undress, instantly plunged into the sea, at the
distance of at leall 25 feet from the furface of the
water, and happily, at the hazard of his own
life, preserved that of the boy, who, in all pro
bability would have otherwise perished. This
event does the highest honor to the courage and
sensibility of the gentleman, who is intitled to the
thanks of every friend of humanity, for this man
ly and intrepid exertion.
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of New~York, on Wednesday the Fourth
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
THE Conventions of a number of the States hav.
ing at the time of their adopting the Consti
tution, exprefled a desire, in order to prevent
misconstruCtion or abuse of its powers, that
further declaratory and reftridtive clauses
should be added And as extending the ground
of public confidence in the government, will bed
insure the beneficent ends of its inftituiion—
Resolved, by the Senate and Hotife of Rcprcfcnta
tives of the United States of America in Congress af
fimbled, two thirds oj both Houses concurring, That
the following articles be proposed to the Legis
latures of the several States, as amendments to
the Constitution of the United States, all or any
of which articles, when ratified by three fourths
of the said Legislatures, to be valid to all intents
andpurpofes, as part of the said Constitution, viz.
Articles in addition to, and amendment of, the
Constitution of the United States of America,
proposed byCongrefs, and ratified by the Legis
latures of the several States, pursuant to the fifth
article of the original Constitution.
Article i. After the firft enumeration re
quired by the firft article of the Constitution,
there/hall be one Representative for every thirty
thousand, until the number fliall amount to one
hundred, after which the proportion (hall be so
regulated by Congress, that there shall be not
less than one hundred Representatives, nor less
than one Representative for every forty thou
sand persons, until the number of Representa
tives shall amount to two hundred, after which
the proportion shall be so regulated by Congress,
that there shall not be left than two hundred Re
presentatives nor more than one Representative
for every fifty thousand perfoiis.
Article 2. No law varying the compen
sation for thefervices of the Senators and Repre
sentatives, shall take effeift, until an election of
Representatives fliall have intervened.
Article 3. Congress fliall make no law re
fpedting an establishment of religion, or pro
hibiting the free exercise thereof, or abridging
the freedom of speech, or of the press ; or the
right of the people peaceably to aflemble, and
to petition the government for a redress of grie
vances.
Article 4. A well regulated militia being
neceflary tothe security of a free State,the right
of the people to keep and bear arms fliall not be
infringed.
A • •
■Article j. No soldier fliall, intimeofpeace,
be quartered in any house, without the confeni
of the owner, nor in time of war, but in a man
ner to be prescribed by law.
Article 6. The right of the people to be se
cure in their persons, houses, papers, and ef
fects, against unreasonable fearchesand seizures,
shall not be violated, and no warrants shall ifl'ue,
out upon probable cause supported by oath 01
affirmation, and particularly describing the place
|o and the persons or things to be
Article 7. No person fliall be held to answer
tor a capital, or otlierwife infamous crime, un
less on a prefentnient or indictment by a grand
J ur y, except in cases arising in the land and na
val forces, or in the militia when in adtual service
111 t,me of war or public danger ; nor fliall any
Person be fubjeci for the fame offence to be twice
P ut in jeopardy of li fe or limb; nor shall be com
pelled in any criminal cafe, to be a witness against
"nifelf, llor kg deprived of life, liberty or pro
perty, without due process of law ; nor fliall pri
vat 4 property be taken for public use without just
compensation.
Article 8. In all criminal prosecutions, the
accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and
public trial, by an impartial jury of the State
and diftaift wherein the crime shall have been
committed, which diftrift shall have been pre
viously afcertainfed by law, and to be informed of
the nature and cause of his accusation ; to be con
fronted with witnefles against him j tohavecom
pulfory process to obtain witnefles in his favor,
and to have the afliilance of counsel for his de
fence.
Article 9. In suits at common law, where
the value in controversy (hall exceed twenty dol
lars, the right of trial by jury shall be preierved,
and no faift, tried by a jury, shall be otherwise
re-examined by any court in the United States,
than according to the rules of common law.
Article 10. Exceflive bail shall not be re
quired, nor exceflive fines imposed, nor cruel
aud unusual punishments inflicted.
Article ii. The enumeration in the Consti
tution, of certain rights, shall not be construed
to deny or disparage others retained by the people.
Article 12. The powers not delegated to
the United States by the Constitution, nor prohi
bited by it to the States, are reserved to the States
refpeftively, or to the people.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG.
Speaker of the Houje of Repiefentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prefdent of the United State!,
and President oj the Senate.
ATTEST,
John Beckliy, Clerk of the Houfc of Reprefmtitives.
Samuel A Otis, Secretary oj the Senate.
ACTS and RESOLUTIONS of the Congress
of the United States, pafled the firft Session,
—begun and held at the city of New-York,
March 4th, 1789.
1. An ast to regulate the time and manner of
adminiltering certain oths.
2. An ast for laying a duty on goods, wares and
merchandizes, imported into the United States.
3. An ast imposing duties on tonnage.
4. An ast for establishing an executive depart
ment, to be denominated the department of fo
reign affairs.
5. Ai act to regulate the collection of the du
ties imposed by law on the tonnage of ships or
veflels, and on good, wares, and merchandize,
imported into the United States.
6. An ast for fettling the accounts between the
United States, and individual States.
7. An ast to ellablifh an executive department,
to be denominated the department of war.
8. An ast to provide for tlie government of the
territory north weft of the river Ohio.
9. An ast for the establishment and support of
light-houses, beacons, buoys and public piers.
10. All ast providing for the expences which
may attend negociations or treaties with the In
dian tribes, anatlie appointment of commiflioners
for managing the fa.ne.
11. An ast for registering and clearing veflels,
regulating the coasting trade, and for other pur
poses.
12. An ast to eftabliflithe treasury department.
13. An ast for establishing the salaries of the
executive officers of government, with their aflif
tants and clerks.
14. An ast to provide for the fafe keeping of
the acts, records and seal of the United States,
and for other purposes.
iy. An ast to suspend part of an ast, entitled,
" An ast to regulate the collection of the duties
imposed by law 011 the tonnage of ships or veflels,
and on goods, wares and merchandize imported
into the United States," and for other purposes.
16. An ast for the temporary eftabliflnnent of
the Post Office.
17. An ast for allowing compensation to the
members of the senate and house of reprefenta
tives,and to the officers of both lioufes.
18. An ast for allowing certain compensation
to the judges oftliefupremeand other courts, and
to the attornev-ofeneral of the United States.
O
19. An ast for allowing a compensation to the
President and Vice President of the United States.
20. An ast to establish the judicial courts of the
United States.
21. An ast to recognize and adapt to the con
stitution of the United States the eftabliflnnent
of the troops railed under the resolve of the
United States in Congress aflembled,and for other
purposes therein mentioned.
22. An act to explain and amend an ast, entitl
ed, " an ast for registering and clearing veflels,
regulating the coasting trade, and for other pur
poses."
23. An ast m aking appropriations for the service
of the pr efent year.
24. An ast to allow the Baren de Glaubeck the
pay of a captain in the army of the United Stares.
25. An ast to regulate procefles in the courts of
c he United States.
26. An ast providing for the payment of the
invalid pensioners of the United States.
27. All astro alter the time for the next meet
ing of Congress.
A resolve for executing the survey directed by
Congress in their ast of June the 6th, 1 788.
A resolve for procuring from time to time the
statutes of the several Hates.
A resolve to provide for the fafe-keeping of
prifonerscommited under authority of the United.
States.
A resolve for continuing John White, John
Wright, and Jofliua Dawfon in office until the 4 h
of February, 1759.
Arefolution piopofing amendments to the con
stitution of the United Stares.
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 3.
His Excellency the Governor, with the consent
of the Council of Appointment, has been pleased
to appoint Richard Varick, Esq. Mayor, and
Samuel Jones, Esq. Recorder, of this city ; and
Aaron Burr, Esq. Attorney General ofthis State.
And at the late election for Charter Officers in
this city, the following gentlemen were elecfted -
South-Ward. Jeremiah Wool, Aldarman—
John Van Dyk, Assistant.
Dock Ward. Wynant Van Zandt, Alderman;
Peter T. Curtenius, Assistant.
East Ward. DanielM'Cormick, Alderman—
John Pintard, Assistant.
West Ward. Isaac Stoutenburgh, Alderman
—William I. Elfworth, Assistant.
North Ward. John Wylley, Alderman—
George Janeway, Assistant.
Montgomery Ward. Theophilus Beekman,
Alderman—Tobias Van Zandt, Assistant.
Out Ward. Nicholas Bayard, Alderman—
Stephen M'Crea, Assistant.
The present year is the most remarkable that
the annals of time have produced. No other per
iod of equal extent is marked with such efforts of
the human mind to encreafe and perpetuate hu
man happiness. Look at and compare the situa
tion of the United States now and twelvemonths
past ! How much has been accompliftied, and with
what wlfdom and patriotifin have our affairs pro
grefled! Many a patriot doubted whether the
new government would have so readily afl'umed
an operative appearance. Great were our fears
that prejudice and discord would have infufed
tliemfelves into our early attempts to put our sys
tem in motion. All has terminated well. The
government is organized, and the people are hap
py-
But America is not the only Theatre where
improvements in the science of a happy govern
ment have been displayed. France exhibits a
noble specimen of a people determined to unite
Liberty and Law. This is the great secret, and
this is the peculiar felicity at which every wife na
tion will aim ; and when they arrive at this desira
ble point, glaring is the folly and base the treach
ery of the man, who dares to blow up a flame of
uneasiness and tumult. In this exa<ft point, do
these favored States now reft, and may France, if
her citizens can bear it, reach the fame fuinmir,
and then may we all be quiet and contented.
It appears from the Engliffi papers, that the
flame which burst out in the capital of France,
hasfpread all over the kingdom—The people ap
pear to be actuated by one ele<ftric spark, which,
while it affecfts the whole body of the citizens, pro
duces the fame uniform exertions to overturn the
too long eftabliflied system of despotism—The
light that has flaflied upon their minds is in some
instances too powerful to be controled by the di
vine influences of rcafon and humanity—and the
consequences have been shocking—but the philo
sopher will reason from effeds to their causes—
and while he regrets the temporary paroxysms of
vengeance, he anticipates a calmer moment, when
reflexion Ihall lull the fervor of zeal, and the
force of vindictive retaliation—when in peace,
freedom and happiness, the French nation fliall
enjoy <he bounties of a beneficent Providence, in
one of the fineft countries under Heaven.
In the warmth of debate one day, in the Na
tional Afleinbly, fays an Engliffi paper, the roy
al authority, as exercised hitherto, was treated
with very little ceremony. "HisMajefty," said
one of the Members, " talks to us ofhis intended
bounties to the nation, as if the rights of men were
but the bounties of sovereigns !"
The spark from the Altar ofLiberty in Ame
rica, which has communicated its fire to France,
has not expended its animating fervor. Look to
your Inquisitions— to your racks—to your tortures
—and to your religious tyranny, O Spain ! for the
day of your emancipation cannot be far off—the
right hand of your tyranny is cut off, and Free
dom approaches to place her standard on the walls
of your Inquisition.
It any ottlie human race, individually, or col
lectively confulered, were ever under obligations
to the Governor of the Universe, the people of A
mericaare bound to recognize such obligations.
How suitable then is the duty, Ihortly to be re
commended by our illustrious Chief Magistrate,
of uniting with one heart, and one voice, in.
prayer, praise and tliankfgiving " to the giv
er ofevery good gift !
ARRIVALS. NEWYORK.
Saturday, Ship Jenny, Smith, Amfte'dam, 53 days.
Brig Vigilant, Fox, Bonnavifta, 49 days.
Sunday, Sloop Betsy, Brooks, Philadelphia, 10 days.
Monday, Sloop Adventure, Allen, Turks I Hand, 2odays.
Ship Juno, Clark, Whaling.Thi 11IGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED,
(in continuation.)
FLORENCE too, and Cofinus, are quoted,
and the alternatives of" treachery, revenge, and
cruelty ; all arising, as they did in Greece, from
the want of a proper division of authority and an
equal balance. Let any one read the liiltory of
the lirft Colinio, his wisdom, virtues, and un
bounded «opularity, and then conlider what
would have been the consequence if Florence, at
that period, had been governed by our author's
plan of successive single aflemblies, chosen by the
people annually. It is plain that the people
would have chosen such, and such only, for re
presentatives as Cofimo and his friends would
have recommended : at lealt a vast majority of
them would have been his followers, and he
would have been absolute. It was the aristocra
cy and forms of the old constitution that alone
served as a check upon him. The speech of Uz
zano must convince you, that the people were
more ready to make him absolute than ever the
Romans were to make Casfar a perpetual dicta
tor. He confefles that Cofimo was followed by
the whole body of the plebeians, and by one half
the nobles: Thar if Cofimo was not made malter
of the Commonwealth, Rinaldo would be, whom
he dreaded much more. In truth, the govern
mental this time was in reality become monarch
ical, and that ill-digested aristocracy, which
they called a popular State, exiftedonly in form ;
and the persecution of Cofimo only served to ex
plain the secret. Will it be denied that a na
tion has a right to choose a government for them
selves ? The question really was no more than
this, whether Rinaldo or Cofimo ihould be mas
ter. The nation declared for Cofimo, reversed
that banishment into which he had been very un
juftiyfent by Rinaldo, demanded his return, and
voted him the father of his country. This alone
is full proof, that if the people had been the
keepers of their own liberties, in their fuceel
five aflemblies, they would have given them all
to Cofimo ; whereas, had there been an equal
mixture of monarchy, aristocracy, and democra
cy, in that constitution, the nobles and commons
would have united against Cofimo the moment he
attempted to overleap the boundaries of his legal
authority. Uzzano confeffes, that unless charity,
liberality and beneficence, were crimes, Cofimo
was guilty of no offence, and that there was as
much to apprehend from his own party as from
the other, in the point of liberty. All the sub
sequent attempts of Rinaldo to put Cofimo to
death and to banifli him were unqualified tyran
ny. He saved hislife, itistrue, by a bribe, but
what kind of patrons of liberty were those who
would betray it for a bribe ? His recall and re
turn from banifliment feerns to have been the ge
neral voice of the nation, exprcfled, according
to the forms and spirit oftheprefent
without any appearance of such treachery as our
author suggests. Whether Nedham knew the
real history of Florence is very problematical;
all his examples from it are so unfortunate as to
be conclulive against his proje<ftof a government.
The real eflence of the government in Florence
had been, for the greatest part of fifty years, a
monarchy, in the hands of Uzzinoand Nafo, ac
cording to Machiavel's own account; its form
an aristocracy, and its name a popular state : No
thing of the eflence was changed by the reftora
tionof Cofiino ; the form and name only under
went an alteration.—Holftein too is introduced,
merely to make a story for the amusement of a
drunken mob. " Here is a health to the re
" membranceof our liberty." faidthe " boorish,
" poor, filly generation," seventy years after
they were made a duchy. Many hoglheads of
ale and porter, I doubt not, were drank in En
gland in consequence of this Holftein story; and
that was all the effect it had it could have towards
supporting our authpr's argument.
'' How deep soever the imprellion may be, that
" is made by the love of liberty upon the minds
" of the people, it will not follow that they alone
" are the belt keepers of their own liberties, be
" ingmore tender and more concerned in their
" security that any powerful pretenders whatfo
" ever." Are not the lenafors, whether they
be hereditary or elective, under the influence of
powerful motives to be tender and concerned for
the security of liberty ? Every senator, who con
fultsliis reason, knows that his own liberty, and
that of his posterity, must depend Upon the con
stitution which preserves it to others. What
greater refuge can a nation have, than in a coun
cil, in which the national maxims, and the spirit
and genius of the state, are preferred by a living
tradition?' What stronger motive to virtue, and
to the preservation of liberty, can the human mind
perceive, next to those of rewards and punifli
ments in a future life, thnn the recollection of a
long line of ancestors who have fat within the
walls of the senate, and guided the councils, led
the armies, commanded the fleers, and fought the
battles of the people, by which the nation has
been sustained in its infant years, defended from
dangers, and carried through calamities, to
■wealth,grandeur, prosperity, and glory? Whp;
institution more ufeful can possibly exist, than
a living repertory of all the history, know
ledge, interests, «nd wisdom of the common
wealth, and a living leprefentative of all the
great characters whose prudence, wisdom, and
valour, are registered 111 the history and record
ed in the archives of the country ? If the peo
ple have the periodical choice of these, we may
hope they will select those, among the moll con
spicuous for fortune, family and wealth, who
are most signalized for virtue and wisdom, which
is more advantageous than to be confined to the
ekleft son, however defective, to the exclusion
of younger sons, however excellent, and to one
family, though decayed and depraved, to ano
ther more deserving as in hereditary senates ;
But thatafenate, guarded from ambition, (hould
be objected to, by a friend of liberty and repub
lican government, is very extraordinary. Let
the people have a full lhare, and a decisive nega
tive ; and, with this impregnable barrier againlt
the ambition of the senate on one fide, and the
executive power with an equal negative 011 the
other, such a council will be found the patron
and guardian of liberty 011 many occasions, when
the giddy thoughtless multitude, and even their
representatives, would negledt, forget, or even
despise and insult it; inflances of all which are
not difficult to find.
CONGRESS or the UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Wrdnefday the Fourth
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
RESOLVED, That the survey directed by
Congress in their aift of June the fixtli, one thou
sand seven hundred and eighty-eight, be made
and returned to the Secretary of the Trea
lury without delay; and that the President of the
United States be requested to appoint a fit person
to complete the fame, who shall be allowed five
dollars per day whilst atfiually employed in the
said service, with the expences lieceflarily at
tending the execution thereof.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vue-Prefident of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
APTROVID, AUCUST the 26th, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefdent of the United States.
An ACT to provide for the fafe-keeping of the
ACT. S, RECORDS, and SEAL of the United
States and for other purposes.
BE it etiaftedby the Senate and House of Represen
tatives of the United States of America in Congress
ajfe?/ibled, That the executive department, deno
minated the Department of Foreign Affairs, shall
hereafter be denominated the department of
State, and the principal officer therein shall here
after be called the Secretary of State.
And be it further tnatted, That whenever a bill,
order, resolution, or vote of the Senate and House
of Representatives, having been approved and
signed by the President of the United States, or
not having been returned by him with hisobjec
tions, fliall become a law, or take effecft, it shall
forthwith thereafter be received by the said Se
cretary from the President: And whenever a
bill, order, resolution, or vote, shall be return
ed by the President with his obje&ions, and fliall
011 being reconsidered, be agreed to be pafl'ed,
and be approved by two thirds of both Houses of
Congress, and thereby become a law or take ef
fetft, it fliall, infuch cafe, be received by the
said Secretary from the President of the Senate,
or the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
in whichsoever House it shall lafl have been so ap
proved ; and the said Secretary shall, as soon
as_ conveniently may be, after he shall re
ceive the fame, cause every fucli law, order, re
solution, and vote, to be published in at least
three of the public newspapers printed within the
United States, and fliall also cause one printed
copy to be delivered to each Senator and Repre
prefentative of the United States, and two print
ed copies duly authenticated to be sent to the ex
ecutive authority of each State ; and he fliall care
fully preserve the originals, and fliall cause the
fame to be recorded in books to be provided for
that purpose.
And be it further etiaHed, That the seal hereto
fore used by the United States in Congress aflem
bled, fliall be,_ and hereby is declared to be the
seal of the United States.
And be it-further er.atled, That the said Secre
tary shall keep the said seal, and shall make out
and record, and shall affix the said seal to all civil
commissions, to officers of the United States, to be
appointed by the President by and with the advice
andconfent of the Senate,or by the President alone.
/ ; ovidedy That the said seal jJiall not be affixed to
any commifuon, before the fame shall have been
signed by the President of the United States, nor
to any other inftruinent or acft, without the spe
cial warrant of the President therefor.
And be it further catted, That the said Secreta
ry (hall caule a Seal of office to be made for- the
said department of such device as the President
of the United States fliall approve, and all copies
of recoros and papers in the said office, autl'cn
ticated under the said seal, lhall be evidence e
qually as the original record or paper.
And be it further enaded, Tliat there lhall 1
paid to the Secretary, for the life of the Unit, I
States, the following fees of office, by the Jr
lons requiring the services to be performed ,v"
cept when they are performed for any officer of
the United States, in a matter relating to the du
ties of his office, to wit: For making out and
authenticating copies of records, ten cents'for
each ffieet, containing one hundred words
for authenticating a copy of a record or
under the seal of office, twenty-five cents.
And be it further etiaCled, That the said Secre
tary lhall forthwith after his appointment
entitled to have the custody and charge of the
said seal of the United States, and alio of all
books, records, and papers, remaining in the
offiee of the late Secretary of the United States
in Congress ailembled ; and such of the said books
records, and papers, as may appertain to the
Treasury department, or War department, (hall
be delivered over to the principal officers in the
said departments respectively, as the President
of the United States lhall diredt.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG
Speaker of the House of Rep, efentatiw.'
JOHN ADAMS, Vict-Prijidcnt of the United Statu,
and President of the Senate.
AOPROV ED, SEPTEMBER the 15th, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefdcnt of the United State,.
NEW-JERSEY PAPER MONEY.
NUMBER I.
To the CITIZENS of the State of NEW-JERSEY.
THE tender on the continental currencyaud
on the State money of the ninth of June, 1780
was very injurious to the citizens ofNew- jersey!
The injustice ofimpofing a tender or a depreciat
ing paper was very apparent from .We two in.
fiances. Yet the State of New-Jersey, after dear
bought experience, and in time of peace, in 1786
emitted a paper-money, commonly called Loan-
Office-Money, to circulate for the term oftwelve
years, and armed it with a tender. The State in
1786, impoled a tender also on another species
of their paper money, commonly called Revenue-
Money, which then had twenty-two years to run.
The paper money of this State, has, from the
year 1786 to theprefent day,depreciated nearly,
if not fully, one-third in its nominal value; and
the depreciation of it, has in many cases 011 com
pulsory payments, occasioned to the creditor the
loss of one-third of his debt. A Paper daily depre
ciating, wearing a tender, injuring at almost
every rtepinits progress, and likely fotoconti-,
nue in one part, until the year 1 798, and in ano
ther part until the year 1808, was a mifchief fe
jious in its nature and fraught with many preju
dicial consequences too obvious to need an enu
meration. This was an enormous evil, which
called loudly for redress. To remedy this and
other evils, was framed the Constitution of the
United States of America, which the State of
New-Jersey unanimously ratified. This Consti
tution on the fourth of March, 1789, on which
day it began to proceed and to diffufe extensively
its beneficial effects, did, by the tenth fedion of
the firft article, and by the second clause of the
sixth article, fupercede and do away between ci
tizen and citizen in the payment of debts, the
tender on the loan-officemoney and revenue mo
ney of New-Jersey. This is aiiiong many others,
one great benefit, which this State has already
derived from the new Constitution. Happy /Era,
when was baniihed fronuhe Union, the folly and
iniquity of a tender on worthless Paper ! The
only money, which since the fourth of March
last, lias carried in New-Jersey a legal tender in
the payment of debts between citizen and citizen,
is' Spanifii milled silver dollars and Portugaljohan
nefes, which were legitimated by ast ofthe legilla
ture of that State on the eleventh of February,
1777- The loan-office money and revenue mo
ney, are lawfully receivable in the payment of
taxes to the State, in the fame manner they
were before the fourth of last March. Theloan
office money is,and by law ought to be receivable
by the State until the expiration of its term, in
fatisfadlion and discharge of the mortgages, on
which the bills were loaned, in the fame manner
it was before the fourth of last March. The
New-Jersey paper money has not had, since the
fourth of March last, any legal tender on it be
tween citizen and citizen in compulsory payment#
of debts. The citizens of New-Jersey are well
entitled to avail themselves in their contracts and
other money matters of the benefit of the new
Constitution, the fupremelaw of the State.
Silver Money, A Citizen of Nevi-Jn'fi)'
Dated the 25th of September, 1789.
ANECDOTE.
IT is remarkable that Hugh Aubriot, an
tive of Dijon, and Prevot des Marchands of 3 '
lis, who placed the firft stone of the Baftilf j '
like the inventor of Phadaris' Bull, the nrl «
tim of his own work, being confined there un
pretence of heresy.
■published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9,
Lane, near the Ofwego-Markct) New-York. [3 ''