[No. LVII.]
PLAN
Of the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
(A NATIONAL PAPER.)
Published at the Seat of the National Gov ernment.
CONTAINING,
L EARLY and authentic Accounts of the PROCEEDINGS
of CONGRESS—its LAWS, ACTS, and RESOLUTIONS,
communicated so as to form an HISTORY of the TRANSACTIONS
ef the NATIONAL LEGISLATURE.
11. Impartial Sketches of the Debates of Congress.
111. ESSAYSon the great fubjefts of Government; also upon
the national and local Rights of the american citizens, as
founded upon the National or State Constitutions ; also upon every
other Subject, which may appear luitable fornewfpaperdifcuflion.
IV. A SERIES of PARAGRAPHS, calculated to catch the
living manners AS they rise ," and to point the public
attention to Obje&s that have an important reference to domeflic y
ft rial and public happinef.
V. The Interests of the United States as connettcd with their li
terary Inftitutions—religiousand moral Objefts—lmprovements in
Science, Arts, EDUCATION and HUMANITY—their foreign
Treaties, Alliances, Connexions, See.
VI. Every species of INTELLIGENCE, which may affe£lthe
(omnercial, agricultural, manufacturing, or political INTERESTS of
the AMERICAN NATION.
VII. A CHAINof DOMESTIC OCCURRENCES.
VIII. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELLI
GENCE.
X. The STATE of the FUNDS—Courfcs of Exchange—Prices
Current, Sec.
CONDITIONS.
i.
Published aery WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
11.
Theprice toSubfcribers(cxc\u(ivc of postage) THREE DOLLARS
jr. annum.
111.
Thefirjl femi-annual payment to he made in three monthsyVom the
timi jJfubferibing, andfuture payments to be made every fix months.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will be received in all the capital towns upm the Continent; also at No.
g, Maiden-Lane, near the Ofwego-Market, New-York.
To the PUBLIC.
AT this important Crisis, the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with Events of the greatest magnitude—to strengthen and
complete the UNION of the States—to extend and protest their
COMMERCE, under equal Treaties yet to be formed—tc '•xplon
and arrange the NATIONAL FUNDS—to restore and establish
the PUBLIC CREDIT—and ALL under the aufpicesof an untri
ed System of Government, will require the ENERGIES of the
Patriots and Sages of our Country—Hence the propriety ef encreafing
the Mediums of Knowlege and Information.
AMERICA, from this period, begins a new Era in her nation
al existence— 41 th e world is all before her"—The
wisdom and folly—the mifcry and prosperity of the EMPIRES,
STATES, and KINGDOMS, which have had their day upon
the great Theatre of Time, and are now no more, suggest the moll
important Mementos—Thefc, with the rapid series of Events, in
which our own Country has been so deeply irttefefted, have
taught the enlightened Citizens of the United States, that FREE
DOM and GOVERNMENT—LIBERTY and LAWS, are inse
parable.
This Conviction has led to the adoption of the New Conflitut.i
---on; for however, various the Sentiments, refpccling the ML.
-RITS of this Syflcm, all good men are agreed in the neceflity
that exists, of an EFFICIENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
A paper, therefore, established upon NATIONAL % INDE
PENDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRINCIPLES—which (hall
take up the premised Articles, upon a competent plan, it is
presumed, will be highly intcrefling, and meet with public ap
probation and patronage.
The Editor of this Publication is determined to leave no avenoe
of informaton unexplored :—He solicits the aflifltnce of Persons
of lcifurc and abilities—which, united with his own afTiduity, he
flatters himfclf will render the Gazette of the United States not
unworthy general encouragement and is, with due relpcft,
the public's humble servant, THE EDITOR.
POSTSCRIPT.
SIX Months have now elapsed since this paper was ushered
into exigence—how far the ff)irit of the plan has been exhibited, and
adhered to, is not for the Editor to fay.—A generous and candid pub
lic has awarded its approbation, b\ a fubfeription which is said to be
wore extensive than usual on Jimi/ar cxcafions• —An acknowledgement of
the favor is therefore due from the publisher.—The expence attending an
undertaking of this kind is always great; in the prejent inflance, it has
not been counterbalanced by any of the cujlomary receipts on account of
tdxxrtifemcnti —the objefl being an extensive circulation, the Editor con
ceiving that their insertion wonld have counteracted that part of his plan,
has ncm admitted any. This consideration if it was necejfary to be
f u W.fled,would point out the importance of punfluality on the part of the
fubferibers —it appears to have neen very generally a'.tended to, as th*
Payments have been unusually prompt.
its? necejfary to observe that the number of names which have honored
thefubfoiption, is not fufjicient to defray the expence of the publication,
a nJto afford the Editor a competent support, on a f"ppofition that the
who/ejlouldbe colleßed.—Additional fubferiptions are therefore folic it ed;
*nd when it is considered, t'vt the paper is new til its ccnjlruftwn ; con
tains intelligence ofthemofl interesting nature ; abounds with more ori
ginality than any other periodical publication ; and, viewed as a mif
cetlany, is cheaper than any magazine, regifler, i3c. it can not be doubted
fat that it will receive an adequate patronage.
, I* the present number, the publication of the Journals of the Senate
is commenced. As there is no gallery to the Senate Chamber, all that
can be known of the proceedings of that Mojl Honorable branch of th?
Actional Legiflature,is from theit Journals ; in this view of the fubjetl,it
is fiipofedthey will be interejling to thepuhlic. The price of the laws and
th Journals cf the two Houses only, which will be given in the course
V one year, amounts to more than the fubfeription.
The Editor is determined to prcfecute the publication, upon its origi
nalprinciples : He hopes to make it more interejling, by the communi
cations of his ingenious correfpondentt : He solicits the aid of every
! 'iendtofcience, freedom and govtrnmevt: And fitch speculations as
ura frieniilv afpefl to the peace, honor and prosperity of our rifng
n,i ' o,l i uill be received with gratitude by the public's humble servant
JOHN FEX NO.
New-York, OBober \4, 178 a.
$ " Jf ANTED, to cot pi etc Files of this pa be ■ -tor.: <f 30,40, 43?
44s 46. and 48 : Six p -ce cach will be paidjor oj thofc numberj
the office oj the Editor.oember 2 4.
WEDNESDAY, October 28, 1739.
THE TABLE T.—No. LVII.
" The inflinfl of sovereignty in our nature, am.
the waywardness of infanti which is the consequence
of it, discover themselves with the leajl glimmering of
underflanding ; and those children, which are mojl
ncgJetted and the leaf} taught, are always the mofl
jlubborn and obflinate ; and none are more unruly or
fonder of following their own will, than those that are
least capable of governing themselves
T HAVE, in more than one of my specula-
A tions, offered remarks much of the fame
nature with those contained in this number. The
subject, in my apprehension of it, is an intereft
ingone. Wherever we turn our eyes, we behold
striking demonstrations, that all men arc i>i nature
tyrants. It is so universal and instinctive a pro
pensity, as justly to be denominated one of the
llrongeft characteristics of human nature. If I
am enquired of, why I endeavor to enforce so
evident a truth, I will inform the reader, thrit it
is not so much to fix the doctrine itfelf, as to de
duce some ufeful inferences.
Men are perpetually calling government -a ne
ceflary evil. The epithet is not fairly applied.
Government is instituted as a remedy against an
unavoidable evil, which exists in the natural con
stitution of man. It is true the remedy does not
always produce the full effect intended ; but it is
only becanfe the evil is too deeply fixed to admit
of a cure. Government must not therefore itfelf
be called an evil, merely because there are some
evils, which it has not power to remove. If so
ciety is opprefled with tyranny, or agitated with
sedition, it only fliews that the lusts and paflions
of men are not altogether restrained by civil in
fti tut ions. Men are acting agreeably to the im
pulse of their nature. The government under
which such mifchiefs happen is not capable of
controling entiiely the excefles to which men are
naturally prone. The enormities however would
be tar greater, were they not subject to some re
flraint, by the operation of the government. We
are too fond of paying compliments to human
nature, and therefore transfer the blame from
ourselves to causes where it should not be fixed.
Man must be made an artificial being before it
can be fafe living with him. This inculcates the
neceflity of education. Ignorance is the founda
tion of molt of the political calamities whichever
overwhelmed the world. Ido not mean that ig
norant men have done the mifchief. They have
only fuffered it to be done. Wicked and artful
men, which are always to be found in all situations
of society, can give scope to their inclinations,
where the people are untaught in moral duties
and civil privileges. Unless men are ignorant
and unenlightened, no monstrous ihifcbief can
take place ; and in this view, ignorance may be
said to be the foundation of all political evil.—
There can be no danger of losing liberty where
the people have knowlege. A wife community
guards itfelf equally against tyrants and Incendiar
ies ; and it like wife guards individuals against the
oppressions which they are, by nature, prone to
exercise over one another. In such a situation
the positive hlelftngs of government are appar
ent ; because civilized, well-informed men are
capable of being well-governed. In a worse state
of society, men are a greater evil to each other,
and therefore they call the government an evil,
by way of compliment to themselves.
It is of importance that mankind become fenfi
ble of this truth ; that bad men can never have
a good government, and that men always will be
bad, till laws and education make them good.—
Nothingplaces the advantages of good laws and
institutions in a stronger point of light, than that
they are capable of encreafing the desire to pos
sess property, at the fame time that they create an
abhorrence to acquire it unjustly. In a state of
nature, the desires of a man are few, and it is well
they are so ; for few as they are, he often com
mits terrible outrages to gratify them. In a state,
any degree civilized, it is true the appetites of a
man are more keen, and the objects of his wishes
more numerous, and they fafely may be so ; for
he will seldom dare or desire to lay violent or un
just hands on the property of another, for the fake
of encreafing his own. And yet there are many
people who are incessantly stigmatizing govern
ment with odious epithets. If men will look in
to the subject, and trace effects to their proper
source, they will know better by what names to
call things.
FRENCH INSCRIPTION
TO the French Almanack for the year its 7, is
a Frontispiece representing France seated on the
Throne of Royalty, and Taking by the hand the
Genius of America, with the following expressive
motto :
Homage des Amtricaines a la France, sous la regne
de Lout! XVI, Pacificatenr des deux Moudes !
[.Publijhed Wcdusfday and Saturday.]
MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER V.
Amsterdam, Oct. g, i 790.
SIR,
fifth enquiry is, " Whether a voluntary re-
A " volt of any one or more of the States in the
" American Confederation is to he apprehended : And.
" if one or more mere to revolt, whether the others
" -would not he able to defend themfslves ?"
This is a very judicious and material question.
I conceive that the answer to it is easy and deci
sive. T here is not the least danger of a voluntary
revolt of any one State in the Union. It is diffi
cult to prove a negative, however ; and (till more
difficult to prove a future negative. Let us, how
ever, conlfder the subject a little.
Which State is the moil likely to revolt, orfub
mit ? Is it the uioft ancient colony, as Virginia,
or the Maflachufetts ? Is it the moll numerous
and powerful, as Virginia, Mallachufetts, orPenn
fylvania ? I believe nobody will fay, that any one
of tliefe great States will take the lead in a revolt,
or a voluntary submission.
Will it be the smallest and weakest States, that
will be molt likely to give up voluntarily ? In or
der to fatisfy ourselves of this, let us consider
what has happened ; and by the knowlege of
what has palled, we may judge of what is to come.
The three smallest States are Rhode-Island,
Georgia, and Delaware.
The Englifli have plainly had it in view ta
bring one of these States toa fubmiflion, and have
accordingly direcfted very great forces againlt
them.
Let us begin with Rhode-Island. In the latter
end of the year 1776, General Howe sent a large
army of near seven thousand men, by sea, under
aftrong convoy of men of war, detached' by Lord
Howe, to take pofleflion of Newport, the capital
of Rhode Island. Newport Hands upon an island,
and was neither fortified nor garrisoned fufficient
ly to defend itfelf againftfo powerful a fleet and
army, and therefore the Englifli made themselves
malters of the place. But what advantage did
they derive from it ? Did the colony of Rhode-
Island', small as it is, submit ? So far from it,
that they were rendered the more eager to refill ;
and an army was aflembled at Providence, which
confined the English to the prison of Rhode-Island,
until the fall of the year r779, when they were
obliged to evacuate it, and our army entered it
in triumph.
The next little State which the Englifli attempt
ed was Delaware. This State confilts of three
counties only, situated upon the river Delaware,
below Philadelphia, and is most exposed to the
English men of war of any of the States, because
they are open to invallon not only upon the ocean,
but all along the river Delaware. It contains not
more than thirty thousand fouls. When the Elig
lifh got pofleflion of Philadelphia, and had the
command of the whole navigation of the Dela
ware, these people were more in the power of the
Englifli than any part of America ever was, and
the Englifli generals, admirals, commanders, and
all the tories, used all their arts to seduce this lit
tle State ; but they could not suCceed ; they never
could get the appearance of a government erecled
under the King's authority.—The people con
tinuedtheir delegation in Congress, and conti
nued to elecft their Governors, Senate, and Aflein
blies, under their new conflitution, and to furnifh
their quota to the continental army, and their
proportion to the militia, until the English were
obliged to evacuate Philadelphia.—There are
besides, in this little State, from various causes,
more tories, in proportion, than in any other.
And as this State flood immoveable, I think we
have no reason to fear a voluntary submission of
any other.
The next small State that was attempted was
Georgia.—This State is situated at the southern
extremity of all, and at such a distance from all
the reft, and such difficulties of communication,
being above an hundred miles from Charleston,
in South-Carolina, that it was impoflible for the
neighbouring States to afford them any assistance.
The English invaded this little State, and took
the Capital, Savanna, and have held it to this day :
But this acquisition has not been followed by any
fubmiflion of the province ; on the contrary, they
continue their delegates in Congress, and their
new officers of government. This province,
moreover, was more immediately the child of
England than any other ; the settlement of it cost
England more than all the reft, from whence one
might expecft they would have more friends here
than any where.
New-Jersey is one of themiddling-fized
—New-Jersey had a large British army in Phila
delphia, which is on one fide of them, and ano
ther in New-York, which is the other fide, andI
tließritiflv army lias marched qufte through it;
Sad the Engliih have used every policv of flattery,
of terror, and severity, but nil in vain, and wovfe
than in vain ; ail has confpii ed to make the people
of New-jc !'ey foine of the moll brave and Jkilful
to resist them.
New-York, before the commencement of hos
tilities,was supposed to be the moii luke warm of
the middle States, in the opposition to the de
signs of the Engliih. The Engliih armies have
invaded it from Canada and from the ocean, and
have long been in pofleffionof three.islands, New-
York Island, Long-lfland, and Staten-lfland ; yet
the relt of that Province has flood immoveable,
through all the varieties of the fortune of war, for
four years, and increases in zeal and unanimity
every year.
I think, therefore, there is not apoffibility, that
any one of the Thirteen States ihould ever volun
tarily revolt or fnbmit.
The efforts and exertions of General Howe, in
New-York, Loiig-Jlland, Staten-lfland, New-Jer
sey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland, to
obtain recruits; the vail expence that he put his
pav-mafter to in appointing new corps of officers,
even general officers: the pains they took to in
iift men, among all the llragglers of those coun
tries, and among many thousands of prisoners
which they then had in their hands ; —all these
jneafures obtaining buj three thousand fix hundred
men, and very few of these Americans, accord
ing to General Howe's own account,ihews, 1 think,
to a demonstration, that no voluntary revolt or
fubmiflion is ever to be apprehended.
But even supposing Rhocle-Ifland ihould submit,
what could this small colony of fifty thousand fouls
do, in the midil of Maflachufetts, Connecticut,
and New-Hampshire ?
Supposing Delaware, thirty thousand fouls,
ihould submit, what influence could it have upon
the great States of New-Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, and Virginia, among which it lies ?
If Georgia, at the extremity of all, ihould sub
mit, what influence could this little society of
thirty thousand fouls have upon the two Caro
linas and Virginia ? The colonies are at such
vast distances from one another, and the country
is so fortified every where, by rivers, mountains,
and forefts, that the conqueftor fubmillion of one
part has no influence upon the reft.
I have the honor to be, See.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
E ROPE AN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, August 12.
The Britons of France, in whose country the
city of Nantz lies, appear wifely to be as careful
•t the rights of the Crown, as they are of the rights
of the People; and to be as ready to support the
former, as they are determined to maintain the
latter.
Carefully avoiding the wild chimeras of mo
dern reformers, who would either abolish mon
archy totally, or leave it a mere empty name, they
think the prerogatives of the Crown not only com
patible with the liberties of the people, but abso
lutely netelfary to the preservation of those liber
ties.
They also take care, left certain revolutionists
Ihould luffer themselves to be carried away by no
tions of ambition, that they abliortlie idea of tak
ing the crown from him who at present wears it,
or from those upon whom the inheritance of it is
entailed by law.
A short extraift from the Nantz address will
clearly (hew both their wisdom and their spirit:—
The city of Nantz having had the advantage
of being one of the firft in the kingdom, to raise
its voice to claim and allcrt the unalienable rights
of the people, feels itfelf bound to manifelt, in
the molt striking manner, its attachment to the
privileges which the National Allembly has so
nobly and so courageoully aflerted.
'< It therefore eagerly embraces this opportu
nity to declare, that it adopts, and will moil: fted
faft'ly adhere to, not only yourrefolution of the
17th of June, but to all those that followed it.
" That the interest of the people ofthis coun
try is inseparable from that of their Sovereign,
and that they never will be able to (hake off the
yoke under which they have 1b long groaned, but
by giving the greatell vigour to the executive pow
er, the citizens of Nantz 1 wear upon the Altar of
"''eir Country, in the presence of the dreadful
and common Judge both of Kings and Subjects,
that they will maintain the Royal Authority be
longing to the Crown, and will refill, to the ut
most of their power, the attempts of those who
may be daring enough to wiili to divide it with any
body of men whatever.
" Full of gratitude to a long line of Kings,
who strove to break the chains made for man in
mges of barbarism, and to reltore him to the dig
nity of his nature—
" Penetrated with the 1110 ft profound refpeft
for the virtues of the beneficent Prince who has
restored to France her National Aflemblies and
*<ho feels that the rights of the Crown, and the
rights and property of the fubjei t, ft and upon one
and the fame foundation—the Citizens of Nantz
hilU'Judt their Representatives to proclaim the re
fpeclful homage of their inviolable loyalty and
fidelity to the Family upon the Throne, and their
love for the Patriot King whom God has given
them.
" They raise their hands to Heaven, and thus
solemnly swear, that they are ready to facrifice
their fortunes, and to lpill even the lalt drop of
their blood, to maintain the fcepterin the House
of Bourbon.
" In the fame manner, they solemnly swear,
that they are ready to make the fame facrifices to
support the refolutioiis of your augult Ailembly,
and to defend the liberty of the French Nation,
whose greatelt enemies have been the enemies of
Kings.
" They call for vengeance on the heads of those
who are wicked enough to calumniate a loyal na
tion, and a faithful people.
" The Citizens of Nantz think it a sacred duty
to pay homage to the zeal, the underltanding, and
patriotism of the National Alfembly.
" Should attempts he made to lay snares round
you, or to stagger you either by terror of menaces,
or the fed uc r tion of intrigue, look behind you, and
you will fee twenty-five millions of people, with
their eyes fixed upon you, and waiting in silence
to hear from you what is to be their lot, and that
of their posterity.
" At this fight, your courage rising to the dig
nity of the augnft character, no less sacred than
that of the prielthood, with which your Country
has invefteti you, you will (light all menaces and
feduiftion in contemplating themajefty of the firlt
People in the Universe.
" You will think then only of the bleflings that
will attend you when you return individually
among your fellow citizens, to proclaim their re
covered liberty, and the beneficent a&s of a be
loved Sovereign, who cannot long be deceived.—
" Who, emulous of the glory of Louis XII, and
of his own renowned ancestor Henry IV. and wish
ing to tread their steps, feels the true greatness
of a Monarch is to reign over a free people.
" In a word, who knows that the law, that
emanation of Divine Wisdom, ought to be refpedt
ed by Sovereigns theinfelves, if they know their
own interests."
At the late infurreflions in France very naturally oc
cupy all convcrfation, this Jhort Jketch of the Royal
family of that Kingdom may not be unacceptable to
the generality of the public :
Louis XVI is now about thirty-three years of
age ; he ascended the throne of his grand-father
about seventeen, and shortly afterwards married
a filter of the present Emperor of Germany.
When he was firft married, he was thin to a
degree of particular observation ; but being na
turally of a mild, quiescent temper, and indulg
ing in the pleasures of the table, he is now, per
haps one of the fatteft men in his dominions.
To counteract this in some degree, he rises ear
ly, and almost daily takes the diversion of the
chace ; but from dinner till bed-time indulges,
with the intervention of hardly any other buli
nefs than the signing dispatches, See.
He has had four children, two of whom are
lead. His present family consists of the Dauphin,
x child of about fix yeais old, and a princess.
The Oueen is nearly about the King's age, has
much majesty and vivacity in her port, and is on
the whole reckoned one of the fineft women in
France.
Monsieur, the King's next brother, is nearly
is fat as the Sovereign, and was in the beginning
as the present troubles rather a favorite with the
people.
The Count d'Artois, the King's second brother,
isa tall, well-moulded, elegant figure, with much
vivacity and deciiion in his character. He ren
iered himfelf unpopular in the firft meeting of
:he Notables, and seems to have increased that
unpopularity to a degree of proscription.
The Court part) has for several years back
been ealled the Queen's, aided by the Count
d'Artois : these two were said to have the 1110 ft
prevailing influence on the King in all his mea
sures.
September 3. It excites our wonder when we
consider that among two Uncles and three Royal
Brothers, there is not one ofthem whole prudence
or (Economy circumscribes his expences within his
Princely income : The world seems at present to
be in a very ticklish humour.—They should con
template ferioully on the uncertainty of human
events, from the examples at present before them
in France, and view with trembling eyes the im
mense debt this Kingdom groans under :—To
feed the liypocondriac, and not at all to check the
high spirit of unthinking Demigods.
Letter from the Minijiers appointed by the King, to
M. le Chapelliere President of the National altfembly.
" Sir, —Called by the King to his Council, we
are anxious to difclofeour sentiments to the Na
tional Afi'embly.
" The marks of attention with which we have
been honored from the happy moment of our un
ion, and, above all, our fidelity to the principles
of the National Aflembly, and our refpecftful con
fidence in them, are motives the molt sure of giv
ing us courage.
" We cannot for a moment forget, that in
order to fulfil truly- the intentions of the King
we ought ever to huvtf present to our t\.<
great truth, which the National Aflembiy l,' as
pronounced, and which can never be repeated in
vain, " that the power and liappinefs of the Kii n .
cannot be maintained with dignity, noreftabliih.
Ed with durability, uijleft they have for their
foundation the good and liberty" of the people
" Condescend Mr. President, to be our iute'r»
prefer to the Aflembiy, and offer them, in our
name, our iincere protection, that we will no!:
exercifeany public function that lhall not do us
honor by is principle, and that we shall firmly
and steadily govern ourselves by this maxim. ty'e
are, with refpec r t, Mr. President, your very hum
ble and obedient servants.
J. G. Arch, de Vienne,
J. r»I. Arch, de Bourdeaix,
La Tour du Pi n."
INTELLIGENCE JiY THE LAST MAIL,
KINGSTON' {Jamaica} August lg.
Extract of a letter from Ebenezrr, in the if ate of Georgia, dated
June 25, i 7 Bg.
" We have Hill our dreads about us from the copper-colourcd
sovereign. What our hopes lead us to expeCl one d.i v ', is fruftrated
the next. The keen part of this community adiudge him artful
political, and rather dilutive, but not totally deiti'tute of virtue and
magnanimity. Indeed, lie feeius to expett peace on his own terms:
therefore, Ciod only knows when it will be confirmed, unlds
Congiefs take the business on themselves.
" The feat of the present disturbances answers now as a ren
dezvous for European adventurers—therefore, the monarch wiil
be never at a loss for white chieftains of some denomination.
They have lately ushered in a new Principal at the head of their
renowned tribe of horse, by birth an Irithman—a substitute for
one Thompson, an Englifhrnan, who once headed this detach
ment, and we believe not undefcrvedly the favorite of the rmnj
genius, except in the cafe of being fufpefted of an attrocious crime
that of adultery with one of their squaws of the firft confequencc,
which reduced him to the necessity of decamping and leaving Ins
property, or else lose his life. The present is a man further ad
vanced in years, has been much longer in the country and of good
military talents. Different accounts confirm him a perfect ty
rant, unawed by companion, continually embruing his hands in.
the blood of the innocent, for the ill-gotten plunder."
HALIFAX, October 13.
We are desired by Authority to publish fortlie
information of Malters of Veflels coming into
this harbor, that the Block-houic 011 the Citadel-
Hill, which was a conspicuous obje<ft, is now re
moved, on account of its ruinous condition.
The Hag and signal Staff Hill remains, and may be
seen from Sea as usual.
The Hulk also of the large ship fometimefince
stranded, at the backof Thrum Cape, was beat
to pieces 111 thelate storm.
NEWBURY-PORT, October 21.
In the course of a few days THE ILLUSTRI
OUS PRESIDENT OK THE UNITED STATES
is expe<fied to visit this town ; the inhabitants of
which will undoubtedly feel the most exquisite
plealurefrom such an event, and teftify the fame,
by shewing their DELIVERER every markofref
pe«ft in their power.
BOSTON, October 20.
As it must eventually tend to promote the hap
piness and glory of the King, and the freedom
and felicity of the nation, we cannot but wish,
as the firft operations of the National Allembly
of France have been marked with the fame fea
tures—that the French Nation may be as happy
in eftablifliing a Constitution as their allies the
United States of America have been, who now
enjoy the compltte operation of a fyltem ofgovern
:nent which has aftoniihed Europe—drawn from
its most celebrated Civilians the highelt encom
iums, and is calculated to promote not only the
happiness, honor, and glory of the Union—bat
eflentially to promote the Rights of Mankind.
The Hall of the elegant edifice known by th«
name of Faneuil-Hall—was previous to the war,
ornamented with the portraits of several digni
fied personages which were either destroyed or
taken away by the British, in the time of the
liege ; —one of them was the full length of
George 11, King of Great Britain, which was
placed before the middle window at the weft end
of the Hall.
Would it not be a lively and exprefliveteftimo
nial of our regard and veneration for the illultri
ous personage, who is momently expetfted to ho*
nor this town with his prefence—for the town to
request their committee to prepare an address, to
express a desire that the Prefidentof the United
States, would be plealed to permit our ingenious
townsman and refpeifted portrait painter (Mr.
Johnson) to wait on him for the purpole of tak
ing an exact and full length portrait to be put m
the fame place where the portrait ot the King
of Great Britain formerly was ; which would a
a rich brilliancy to the Hall, aud givepleafureto
everv real friend of America.
OF THE PRESIDENT.
Oct. 21. Preparations aremaking atMa. ' "
rough, for lodging The President, and tie
escort which will attend him, on Friday next, "
that he may be expected in this town on Satin
His Excellency the Governor, we are in pjj'rsi
has difpatclied an express to meet THE 11
DEN 1' of the United States, in order to know o
what road he will travel, and when he wil l
in this town, that tliofe preparations may ,e 111
to receive him, which the honor and digmtv
the State require.ills Excellency the Governor, vra are told,
has forwarded to THE PRESIDENT of the Uni
ted States, a mefl'age, offering to that ILLUSTRI
OUS CHARACTER, the nfe of his feat while he
lhallcontinue in this town.
The Vis counte DE PONTEVES, we are told,
has given orders, if it Ihould be agreeable to the
citizens of Boston, that the Active and Sensi
ble frigates be moored off the end of the Long-
Wharf, on the evening of the day when THE
PRESIDENT shall arrive, WHICH WILL BE
SPLENDIDLY ILLUMINATED WITHABOVE
ONE THOUSAND LANTHOIINS EACH.
Major-General Brooks, we are told, has dif
fcatchedone of his Aids-de-Camp, to meet THE
PRESIDENT of the United States, and to re
quest him on his arrival at Cambridge, to re
view three brigades of the Mi ddlesex Militia,
which will be then aflembled there. It is said,
that this review will exhibit upwards ot 1000
men in complete uniform.
The Committee from the Town's Committee
of Arrangements, fat out yesterday, to wait on
THE PRESIDENT, to inform hiniof the plan to
•c carried into operation, to pay the just tribute
of refpert to this ILLUSTRIOUS PERSONAGE.
The joy of all ranks of people is extreme, upon
the prolped: of our beloved President's arrival
in this capital. If any title is proper, none.would
apply so well as that of his being " THE DE
LIGHT OF HUMAN KIND."
Every measure of refped; and attention will
be paid by our worthy and amiable Chief Magis
trate, which the honor and dignity of the Com
monwealth demand, to do the utnioft justice to
the merit of THE ILLUSTRIOUS and DISTIN
GUISHED CHARACTER, which is every moment
expedted.
NEW-Y O R K.
EXTRACTS.
OF PAYING DEBTS.—Owe no man any thing.
" Fashion should be facrificed tojuftice—dif
cretion, as well as fortitude, is necellary in mak
ing this facrifice.—The desire of being like others
is powerful, and should be gratified in things in
different. —When falhion leads to an expence be
yond our income we ought to flop: To be Angu
lar unsocial, and refoluteare characters not to be
coveted ; but Hi 11 virtue may require that they
fliould be borne : If we cannot otherwise pay
what we owe, it is the demand of virtue.
" Some arc dragged by f&fhion into a gay mode
ofliving—while every expencfe is a relu<ftantho
rnage to an idol, for which they have no real rel
ped, and in whose rites they find no pleasure. Let
us commune with our own hearts.—
What is the consequence of being unfafhiona
ble ? perhaps to be ridiculed and despised—but
by whom chiefly by tliofe whose approbation and
friend/hip no wife man would think an acquiiition.
But what is the consequence of being unjult ? your
own heart turns reprover, and condemns you —
Poverty comes like an armed man with all its ter
rors, and without any of its alleviating consola
tions :—lf the appearand of poverty can Icarcely
be supported—the reality will be intolerable.
" Your friends and neighbors may recommend
falhionable amusements, arefles, entertainments,
kc. but be lteady to your purpose—answer them
not niorofely, nor with anger :—Canvas their ad
vice—their maxims—and lerioufly reflect on the
general ifliie of gay and fafhionable lite.—Singu
larity may be censured—but a compliance with
fafliion does not ensure an exemption from it
Talte is capricious and cenforions.
H The want of fafhionable amusements, and
rare dainties will not take away the appetite, not
render repose less pleasant : It will not prevent
our real friends from visiting us—nor is their wel -
come less hearty, nor our mutual enjoyments less
complete.
" Difference of opinion is, after all, a flight
matter.—The management of what we polled is
properly our own concern—it is therefore not the
opinions, the whims, the tafhions of others that
we ought to follow—but the real dictates of out
own hearts." (To be continued.)
" There is something peculiarly delightful to the
mind in tracingfuch analogies between the natur
al and moral world,as tend to throw light on many
important fubjedts, andto confirm our faith in the
f'ubliiue doctrines of our holy religion.—T he ori
gin and progrelfive stages of the butterfly sexnt
ence are beautifully illustrative of the nature,
changes, and future destiny ot man. The butei
fly is produced from a catterpillar, which having
moved for a season in its lowly narrow fplieie,
falls in to a liate of torpid insensibility. I husit
continues during the gloom of winter ; but when
the gladfoine beam of i'pring appears, itisie-ani
mated, bursts its confinement, soars aloft, acquires
new beauty, power, and vigour. Itsfceneot ac
tion, its enjoyments, its exercif.?s are change ,
the substance is retained, but the modification is
totally altered : It is at once another, and the
fame .—Attend then tot'ne demonitrations of an
nual experience, and fay—" H'hy Jhouldit be tho >
'dcredibh thai Cod fht/tld r'aife the dead
EXTRACT from the MESSIAH. a poem.
(By Miss SCOTT.)
TT ASTEN, Great God ! the long prcdi&ed time
When Jesus (hall be known in every clime ;
When the red torch of war no more (hall burn,
Norfeelihg hearts o'er flaughter'd millions mourn;
And when, malignant Tcourgeof every age,
Shall bigot Fury cease its dreadful rage.
When ever-fmilling Concord's golden chain
Shall bind each clime through Nature's tair domain ;
When man his destiny divine (ball prove,
By all the tender charitirs of love ;
When to the child of virtue shall be giv'n,
To find ev'n Earth the blessed porch of Heav'n !
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 28.
AUTHENTIC INFORMATION.
By Capt. Carpenter, who arrived here yester
day, in 7 days from Savanna, in Georgia, advices
are received, which state that the Coinmffioners
from the United States for negociating with the
Southern Indians have been disappointed in not
heingable to effetfl a Treaty. The caufesof this
failure are not mentioned.
Capt: Burbeck's company which escorted the
Commissioners on this occasion, were expected to
embark for New-York, on board Capt. ScheiM
er ho rn, the 20th inft. and may be daily expected.
IT appears by the papers from Boston, that the
inhabitants of that town are making the greatell
preparation to express their refped: to the llluftri
ous President of the United States onhis arrival.
A grand procession has been determined on, and
the several trades have prepared their rsfpeftive
(tandards for the occasion. At a late Town Meet
ing the Hon. Judge Sullivan fuggelted the propri
ety of erecting a permanent Triumphal Arch at
the entrance of the Town to remain a lading me
morial of this pleasing event.
On this happy occasion all party diftin<ftions
have fubfuled ; all ranks are emulous to express
their feelings in the molt unequivocal, and loyal
teltimonials of attachment to the DELIVERER
OF THEIR COUNTRY, wliofe approach likethe
glorious luminary of Heaven, appears to have
totally diflipated the fog ofantifederalifin.
We hear from Rhode-Island that at their late
sessions of Assembly, held at Newport, a bill was
introduced and palled into a law for collecting a
Revenue, said to be nearly similar to that of the
United States—the duties payable in solid coin.
At the fame time they made a new establishment
of revenue officers, and formed the State into dif
tridls. These proceedings are considered there
as an indireifl step of the Anties towards a union
with their filter States : Moil of the new appoint
ed officers have been violent in their oppolition
to the Federal Government, having made loud
complaints that the fees established by Congress
were exorbitant and opprelfive ; but iince their
appointment their tune is much altered—they be
gin to think tliemfelves very suitable persons to
hold the fame polls under the New Government
when that State comes into the Union. Notwith
flandingthey have paper money at command they
appear to be very tond of a little hard caih, and
collecft it with severity from the velFels which
bring wood, brick, and fifh, into their State, to
supply the sea port towns with those articles,
making them pay considerable fees in gold and
(liver. -How can such a description of men have
the presumption to think that Congress will con
tinue them in the Rations they now hold, when
that State lliall accede to the general government >
Rather may it be supposed that men who have been
aidingand supporting an iniquitous fyltem of go
vernment in their State, which has defrauded the
widow, the fatlierlefs children, and the honelt
creditor, of their property, will be considered as
unfui table persons to be employed in polls of ho
nor and responsibility under a wife and good go
vernment.
A happy revolution of fentimentis observed to
have taken place throughout the United States
Local views, and narrow prejudices are univer
sally reprobated.—A generous, national fpiiit,
pervades the whole Union : Formerly we used to
call ourselves Engliflimen, Germans, Irishmen,
Scotchmen, &c. according to the Country from
whence we respectively originated—but now,
even the diftimftions of States are scarcely heard
—and like other Great Nations, who have rlfen
to Fame aud Empire, we are proud to be diftin
euiflied by the name of the Country we inhabit,
AMERICANS—a name that shall ere long be more
desired, and confcr greater honor, than that of
ROMAN ever did.
Some persons have affected to deny that the
flame of Liberty which burst out in America,
has had any influence in enlightening European
nations on this divine fubjecft—but abundant evi
dence in proof of the fai't can be adduced.—lre
land encouraged, and animated by our example,
and success, very early began to aflert the claims
of humanity ; and by the efforts of her patriots,
has rescued inr.ny invaluable rights from the
clutches of tyranny.—lt is inconceivable v,.th
what avidity tiie llory of the American revolution
has been read in France—translations of Ameri
can publications have been circulated in all parts
of that kingdom ; and turning the current ot Itu
dy, and ("peculation into an investigation of the
general, legal, and f'ocial rights ot man, has en
abled her men of genius toaltonifli the world by
the result of their rel'earthes —the patriots ot
France, for leveral years pad, have been indefa
tigable in difleminating political knowledge a
mong the people —t-every well written tieatiie has
been obtained from England, and America and
no expence spared to have them translated and
circulated.—Among ether valuable books, the
' Defence ofthe American Constitutions
was very early introduced into that kingdom,
and contributed not a little to that bh:ze ot free
dom, and patriotism, which bids fair to consume
the whole system of tyranny —root and brancn.
America may indulge a laudable pride on tliisoc
cafion—far the conduct of her illuttrioti' allies i*
a moll glorious elogium 011 her own. i lie world
is altoniflied at the displays of political know lege,
and information—the jultnefs, boldness, and in
dependency of sentiment which charaeterife the
proceedings of the national allembly, and the
speeches of many individuals ot that truly pa
triotic and enlightened body of men. —But the
foregoing sketch may in lome meal are account
for it : for although in point of genius, and
greatness of original conception, the \ rench na
tion is equal to any under heaven, yet doubtless
Ihe has derived immense advantages from her
neighbours, and particularly from this country.
Like America, France appears to conlider that
freedom can be fafe only under the auspices of :i
good constitution—to this objedt her labors tend,
may fhs be so fortunate as to establish one equal
ly free with that, with which Heaven has blelled
this highly favoured country.
While the spirit of freedom is diffufing its be
nign influences over those countries where des
potism in its most horrid forms once reprelled
every noble aiid generous exertion of the human.
mind—may America exult that the perils of her
conflitfl in the fame arduous cause have terminat
ed so glorioufly —may she be wife to secure to
herfelr and posterity the hard earned purchase of
a ten years fuccefsful struggle " peace, liber
ty, and safety," under the auspices ofa good
government —In vain has lhe fought, and con
quered, if her toils are not to have thisiflue In
vain has ftie expended blood, and treasure, if
when her external enemies are subdued, and dri
ven from her coasts, the reltlefs sons of anarchy,
and ft rife, fliall blalt her profpecfts, by fomenting
internal difTentions. _
It would be a " retrogradal" Hep indeed, if af
ter we have piloted the political ship into port,
we fliould again commit her to the mercy of the
boisterous elements, without fails, rudder or sea
men—but this seems to be the objeel of some ol
the crew, who because they had lungs to pipe aj
hands, conceived their nautical abilities equal to
the fir ft offices on board, and because the voyage
though prosperous has ended without their par
ticular advice, or concurrence, they are for lett
ing every thing a float again—and pushing oil 01.1
another expedition.
The English turn every thing into sterling—
Not only the Head of the Governor of the Baffile
has been shewn inLondon atfo much a hght; but
now forfootli they have got the very Balfile itfelt,
with the Whole city of Paris—the grand Proces
sion—and the storming of that famous castle, in
to London, all of which are exhibited on the
Stage 1
At the Commencement at the University in New-Haven, oh
the cth of September, thedegreeof Matter of Arts was conferred
on tiie Hon. Moses Robinson, Chief Justice of the Superior
Court in Vermont. The degree of Doctor in Fhyfic, on Di.
Charles Ki l l ey, of Watford, in Hertford shire, Great-Bi itain;
and on the Hon. David Ramsay, of Charleston, (S C.)|M. D.
it! the Univerfityof Pehnfylvania. The degree of Dottorot Laws,
on the Rev. M a nassah Cut ler , of Ipswich, Massachusetts.
The degree of Do&of of Divinity, on the Rev. Samuel Lock
wood, of Andover, Conneiftcut.
AtalateTown-Meeting. inßoftonDr. Jarvis,
Dr. Eustace, Dr. Appleton, and MeiTrs Hic
ginson and Dawes, were cliofen to prepare a
Congratulatory Address to THE PRESIDENT :
Yesterday week, this address was read to the town,
and met the approbation of the citizens.
ARRIVALS.—NEW-YORK,
Monda), Brig Nancy, , Virginia. 7 day*
Schooner Nautilus, Paiterton. Montego-Bay, 20 days.
Sloop Union, , Norfolk. 7 days.
Tuesday Sloop Phil. Packet, Albcrtton, Philadelphia, 4, days.
Sloop Nancy, Price, Philadelphia, 4 days.
Sloop Dolphin, Carpenter, Snvannah, 7 days.
Brig Friendship, Towniend, Bristol, 57 days.
Sloop Rambler, Defhong, St. Mai tins, —— 4
1 -
(£T IF JOHN BAYES, who lately lived with a Farmer at Pe
tapfico-Neck, near Baltimore, and formerly from Northamptovfhife m
England, or his son William Bay es, who lived with Robert Robert
lon, tavern-keeper, in Redminjler-Townfhip, Penvfylvania, are living*
and will fend an account of themselves, and where they are, or either of
them may be found, to SAMUEL EL AM, at Newport, Rhode-ljland,
they will hear of something to their advantage. Information of the dr
ceafe of either oj those perfotis, (fliould such an event nave happened)
mould be cjtcer&ed a favor, directed as abcv-c.
New-Yoik, Q&ob<rr 21. i~8c).trom the AMERICAN MERCURY.
PMiJked at Hartford, by Mr. Elisha Babcock.
THE OBSERVER No. I.
alue of many civil institutions, cannot be
know n without a familiar acquaintance with
the Jtate °f some nation wholly delfitute of them.
By this means strangers travelling in the United
states, often discover excellencies in their politi
cal Constitutions, and in the several fafe-guards
to liberty, which are not noticed by the native in
habitants who have always used them. A French
man or a Spaniard educated within the verge of
acfpotic authority, fees with tranl'port a fabric of
>ee..oin, and is much more particular in noticing
, tllan t,le Al "erican, who accustomed
v habit, thinks them the immediate works of na
ture, and that the fame may be found in all nati
°, nS ~.^f c Americans thank their God,and admire
the wisdom of their anceltors, for the patrimony
° clv ' liberty. A person who means in future
to conhder himfelf a citizen of 110 one nation, but
oi the world, begs you to know that you are the
favored people of the Almighty Father. It is true
you are not rich—neither are you poor—there is
more poverty and diftrcfs in a single city of Eu
rope, than in the whole American dominion.
Every honest man may live in a state of compe
tency ; and competence to a wife mind is affluence,
ilis all that human nature can receive. You have
no Baftilesor Inquisition—no tyrannizing Nobles :
I ione to support but those who are employed in
youi ierwce. our rulers are of your own crea
tion your persons are lacred lo long as you are
innocent—and the poor have the fame access and
remedy ni your courts ofjuftice as the rich. Your
pu ilic debt if it can be funded and preserved a
mong yourselves will be a bond of union, and in
this way an advantage.
The public debr, under just and fixed regulati
ons, will bean increase of circulating property,
\ ery ferviceabltf to the growth of commerce and
manufactures— government cannot be supported
without a number of officers, who for the pub
lic dignity mull be honorably supported ; but in
the choice of these officers all men of merit may
stand as candidates for appointment—You are
not confined as in the old nations of Europe to
the beggared sons of noble families, to whom
lucrative places are generally given as a means of
expenhve living, which they can obtain in no
other way You have seen the federal appoint
ments to office made with a surprising sagacity and
regard to merit, fromaclafsof men who have had
the confidence of the people, and are known to
pollels eminent genius and integrity in the re
fpeftive departments theyfill. Under such direc
tion the wheels of government cannot fail to
move fafely and for the benefit of the whole
But LET THE PUBLIC BE FOREWARNED that the
time is now come, in which jealousy will begin to
throw out her fufoicions. There have been al
molf innumerable applicants for public offices,
many of them men of no genius, and generally
of no mduftry; who wilhed to live an easy
life on public support. All these are disappoint
ed, and will wish to revenge themselves, by insi
nuations against the designs of government, and
the favored persons who manage our great in
tereits. Like an honest people, let us despise
every attempt of this nature, until the govern
ment hath had time to operate, we ffiall then
know its excellencies, and can remedy its defects
if there be any.
NEW-YORK, October 28, 1789.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sept. 19, 1789.
ESTIMATE of the EXPENDITURE
For the CIVIL LIST of the United States, for the Year 1789.
(CONTINUED.)
In 7 t/alion to the prrfent government.
PrnnoLt f 1 EOiiS. \OOt/IS.
Brought forward, .42,02650
, 1,1 e of | the . Ho »le of Representatives, from
'j lO / Apnj, the time of his appointment, to the
22d0l September, both days, inelufive, at the rate of
1400 dollars per annum (five mouths, ids. 1 ■, ,si gfi
Additional allowance fio.ro the time of his appoint
ment to the 9.9.A of September, one hundred and fe
vcnty-fivedays, at two dollars per day, „, Q
Principal Clerk in theofficeof ditto, froro the til J
of April to the 2 2 d of September, one hundred and
leventy-nve days, at 3 dollors per day
Engrossing Clerk, from the , q th of May, to the °
82d of September, one hundred and seventeen days,
at 2 dollars per day,
Chaplain to the House of Representatives, from the
jftof May, the tune of his appointment, to the and
of September, at 500 dollars per annum, IQ , 2I
Doo r -keeper to the House of Representatives, from 97
the 4 tli of April, the time of his appointment, to the
23d of September, one hundred and seventy-t wo
days, zt 3 dollars per day,
[Note. II he is allowed with the Door-keeper of 5 ' 4
the. cnate, his pay from the conimencement of the
lemon, there will be an addition to he made in this
piacf.J
Affiftant-Door-keepertoHie House of Representa
tives, f1 om the 4th of April, the time of his appoint
ment, to the ? 2 d of September, one hundied and
!eventy-two days, at 2 dollars per day,
Serjeant at Arms, from the 12th of May, the time
of his appoinjment, to the 22 d of September, one
■undue! and thirty-four days, at 4 dollars per day, 536
'45:445 3"
For the Departmentof the Treasury. Dots, iccths.
Secretary of the Treasury, lrom the 11th of
September, being the day of his appointment, to
the end of the year, at 3,300 dollars per annum, 93
Assistant ot the Secretary of the Treasury, fame
" mc > 1500 458 43
Three Clerks to do. for the fame period, at 4,50 412 66
Meflengrrand Office-keeper do. attherate of 150 45 81
Comptroller of the Treasury, from the 12th of
September, the time of his appointment, to the
end of the year, at the rate of 2,000 dollars per
annum, 61l lo
Principal Clerk to do. fame time,at the rate of 800 244 44
Treasurer, from the 12th of September, the time
of his appointment, to the end of the year, at a,OOO
dollars per annum, , 10
Principal Clerk to ditto, fame time, at 600 dol
lars per annum, 183 34
Auditor ot the Treasury, from 12th September,
being the time of his appointment, to the end of
the year, at 1,500 dollars per annum, 458 <2
Principal Clerk to the Auditor, fame time, at
600 dollars per annum, 180 34
Ten Clerks, being two less than flic number
heretofore employed by the Accomptant and Com
missioners for fettling the accounts of the Quarter-
Maflers, Comtnifl'aries, Cloathing, and Maune De
partments,and those of the Secret and Commerci
al Committees; which fcrvices, by the present ar
rangement, devolve on the Auditor; tllimated
for the lame period, at the rate of 450 dollars per
annum, 1.37J
To the Regifler of the Treasury, from the 12th
of September, being she time of his appointment,
to the end of the year, at 1,250 dollars per annum, 95
Five Clerks in the Regillcr's Office, being the
number heretofore employed, as detailed under the
preceding head ot the Department of the Treasury,
ellimated tor the fame period with the principal,
at tiie rate of 450 dollars per annum, C)By 50
6,723
Department of War.
Secretary of the department, from the 12th of
September, being tbe time of his re-appointment,
to the end of the year, at the rate of 3,000 dol
lars per annum, ' g
Chief Clerk for the fame period, at the rate of
600 dollars, 183 3
Two Clerks,fam« time, at 450 dollars per annum, 2 - -
Door-keeper and MefTenger, fame time, at 150
dollars per annum, . .
4o 5°
'>420 34
For the Judicial Department.
Computed according to the falarics reported by
the committee, viz.'
Chief Juflice, per annum, 4,000
Five associate Judges, each 3 ,e00, , , oco
Judge of Main DittriS,
of Ncw-Hampfhire, ,
of Maffachfctfs,
of Connecticut,
of New-York, 1; , 00
r I) 000
ot Pennsylvania, , gQQ
of Delaware, , ' nrin
of Maryland, ,| JOO
ot Virginia, l 800
ot South-Carolina, x g OQ
°[ Georgia, a ' j6oo
of Kentuckey, 800
Attorney-General, 2jooß
36,600
Ellimated for two months in the year 1789, 6,100
For incidentMaudcontingent Expe»fe< relatively to the Gut Lift.
Lnder this head are comprehended foreign con
tingent expenses, newspapers for Congress, print
ing journals of Congress, ftationarv and wood, to
gether with the rent of the several offices.
Of the late Congress, from the ift of January to
the 3d of March, and of the office of their Secre
tary, to the 30th of June, 86
rreafurv D. partm.ent for one year, estimated 45 0
Accompunt's office to the 11 til of September,do. at , .50
Regillcr's ditto, ditto, ,ip
Treaforcr's ditto, ditto, 100
Commissioners for adjuftingthe tommiffary and
Quarter-Mailer's Department, to the Bth of May, l"6 50
Cominiffioner for adjusting the Accounts of the
Marine, Cloathing and Hospital Departments, to
the Bth of May,
Eflimate expnfe for Comtrollfer, Treasurer, Au
ditor and Regillcr's- Office, in stationary, on the
new Treasury Department, from the 12th of Sep
tember, to the end of the year. ~0
Commissioners of the General Board for one vear
ellimated at ; '
Commiffionerof South-Carolina and Georgia, to
the 16th of July, -
Commissioner of Army Accounts, for one year, 276 60
Foreign contingent expenses, estimated by the
late Secretary for Foreign Affairs, who observes,
that the contingent expenses abroad are uncertain
but he estimates «ne year at ' _ oco
Secretary of Foreign Affairs now comprehended
in the Department of State, for one year, ellimated q,o
Secretary at War, forone year,
Stationary and contingenccs for 13 Loan-Officers, /100
7 he Door-keeper of the House of Rcprelenta
tivcs, his estimate of the contingent expenses of
the United States, for Wood, &c. for the second
Seflion. „
669 5 o
7,862 l 8
Total Expenditures for the Civil Lift, 243,377 54
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Treasury Department, September the TrC "j UT >'-
ABSTRACT of JOURNAL of the first »f.ssion of the SENATE
if the UNITED STATES.
A n J SATURDAY, April sc.
the Houfc, and di reded by "he SpeTkcv wTre'ad'
On motion, The Cbmmittee appointed the 14th inihm, to dc.
termine the mode of keepinethe journal were ,'„d ,
fider, « Whether the Minutes be amended Vo as to r' cofd 01l T
t; folio "ng.» aßre °" aftCr thC J ° Urnil b ' -d olt
A letter from Charles Thompson, Esq. dated the ...u t «
1789 direGed to the President of the Senate, purnortm °h P"''
lng delivered to General Wafhin-on the ccrtiLate of h i
fileded President ofthe Un,tcd read and ordered 2
The Committee appointed to consider of thetime ,
manner ... whicb, and the pe.fon by who,,, .heoath *X'" d
bv the Conftttution (hall be admimftered to th- PrrfidVu t, ■
United States, and to confer wuh a Co.nntutt of tt
pointed for that purpose. «ouieap.
Report, That the President hath been pleased to f, - m fv m ,1,
that any time or p.ace which both Houses may think.
point and anv manner which (hall appear mod el.gbl/to them"
will be convenient and acceptable to him-That rtquifite
tions cannot probably be made before Thmfday next-Th* k
President be on that day formally received by both Houses in l!
Senate Chamber-That the Re/rcfenutive/
pable of receiving the greater number of persons that
ftSSKr
That alter the formal reception of the President in the Saw,
Chamber, he be attended by both Houses to the Refrefentaiiw
S'ftw Yoll: 0 adm ' mfterCd b >' thc Chan "U«of
The Committee farther report it as their opinion, that it willk.
propc, ihat.a committee of both Houses be appointed to take 0
der for conducing the business.—Read and accepted W'L
upon, Mr. Lee, Mr Uard, and Mr. D.lton, ondie part of!
Senate, together with a Committee that may be appointed „„
part „( the Ho.ife of Reptcf, nutives, wJen.pS,
order for conducing the bufmefs.
An Order of the House of Representatives concurring in tbe.n
pointme.it of a Committee on their pan, to confer with a Commit
tec appointed the 24th instant, on the part of the Senate tocodl
der and report what Style, &c. it will be proper to annex to the
Offices of President and of Vice President," was read by which*
appeared that Mr. Benfon, Mr. Ames, Mr. Madison, Mr. Car.
roll, and Mr. Sherman, were appointed on the part of the Houi'."
Adjourned.
MONDAY, April 27.
The Committee appointed to take order for conduftingtheeere
mon.al ol the formal reception, &c. of the President, Reported
1 hat it appears to them more eligible, that the oath Ihould be ad.
miniflered to the President in the outer gallery adjoining the Scroti
C hamber than 111 the Representatives' Chamber, and therefore, fulj.
Mit to the refpeftive Houses ihe propriety of authorising their
Committee to take order as to the place where the oath (hall bead
ministered to the President, the resolution of Saturday, affim m „
the Representatives' Chamber as the place, notwithftandin"—Rtid
and accepted. 5
♦u T* 121 afterthc oat h sHall have been adminifteredto
the President, he, attended by the Vice President and the Member,
ot the Senate and House of Representatives, procced to St. Paul's
Chapel, to hear Divine Service, to be performed by the Chaplain
of ( ongrefs already appointed.—Sent to the House of Reprefen.
tatives for concurrence.
A letter of the 25th instant, from the Right Rev. Samuel Pro
voolt, to the Secretary, fignifying his acceptance of the appoint
mentot Chaplain to Congrefc, was read, and ordered to be Wed.
Adjourned.
TEUSDAY, April 28.
pA r J 1 """ W " re " ived fr <"nthe Speaker of the House bv the
President ol the Senate, containing the two following enclosures:
Ihe Report °f ajoint Committee upon the ceremonial to be
oblerved in admimitei ing theoath, &c. to the President, as accept
ed in the House of Representatives ; and, A Bill, entitled "Ar.
' t ? rrgulatc tllttl . mc anci manner of administering certain oaths"
1 he above mentioned report was read, and ordered to lie on the
table.
The was read the filtl time, and to-morrow was aflignedfor
a second reading.
I he Committee appointed to report a mode of communication
to be observed between the Senate and House of Rcprefer,tati.es.
with refpeft to papers, bills, See. and to whom thefubjeft wasre*
committed, having again conferred with the Committee of the
Hour- of Representatives, agreed upon a report: which was read
and ordered to lie for eonfideration. Adjourned
WEDNESDAY, April 29.
Pioceeded to the second reading of the Bill, entitled iC An ast
t0 J e £ u ' ate tirne and manner of administering certain oaths,"
and after debate, it was committed to Mr. Strong, Mr. Paterfon,
Mr. Read, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. Henry.
A letter from the Speaker of the House of Representatives to
the V ice Prefrdent was read, communicating the concurrence of
the House on a report of ajoint Committee, on the mode of com
municating papers, bills and meflages, between the Senate and
House of Representatives.
Also the concurrence of the House with the Senate on the ap
pointment of a committee, refpe£ting the future disposition of the
papers, in the office of the Secretary—and Mx. Trumbull, Mr.
Cadwallader, and Mr. Jackson, were joined, Adjourned.
THURSDAY, April 30.
The Report of the Committee on the mode of communication
between the Senate and House ot Representatives, was takenup»
and after debate postponed.
Mr. Lee, in behalf of the Committee appointed to takeorder
for conducing the ceremonial of the formal reception, See. of
the I lefident of the United States, having informed ths Senate,
that the fame was adjusted : the House of Representatives wcrt
notified, that the Seriate were ready to receive them in the Senate
Chamber, to attend the Piefident of the United States while takj
ing the oath required by the Constitution.—Whereupon, the
House of Representatives, preceded by their Speaker, came into
the Senate Chamber, and took the feats afllgned them ; and the
joint Committee, preceded by their Chairman, agreeably toordcr
introduced the President of the United States totheSenate
Chamber, where he was received by the Vice President, who
conduced him to the Chair; when the Viee President informed
him, that i% The Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States were ready to attend him to take the oath required
by the Conflitution, and that it would be administered by the
Chancellor of the State of New-York."—To which the President
replied, he was ready to proceed :—And being attended to the
gallery in front of the Senate Chamber, by the Vice President and
Senators, the Speaker and Representatives, and the other public
characters present, the oath was adininiftered.—After which the
Chancellor proclaimed, " LONG LIVE GEORGE WASH
INGTON, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES."
The President having returned to his feat, after a fliort pause»
arose and addrcfTed the Senate and House of Representatives.
(Pot the President's Speech, fee our paper of the 2d of May.)
Ihe President, the Vice President, the Senate and Houfe o
Representatives, &c. then proceeded to St. Paul's Chapel, where di
vine iervice was performed by the Chaplain of Congress, a fer
which the President was recondu&ed to his house, by the Com
mittee appointed for that purpose.
The Vice President and Senate returned to the Senate Cham. cr »
and,
Upon motion, Unanimously agreed, That a committe of three
mould be appointed to prepare ananfwerto the Prefiderr.'sSpe eC 1
Mr. Johnson, Mr. Paterfon, and Mr. Carroll, wereelcfte •
Adjourned.
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden;
Lans, ueai the Ofwegt-Market, New-Yokk.-[3Mf" -