(bdztttf
[No. LIII.]
PLAN
Of the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
(A NATIONAL PAPER.)
Published at the Seat of the National Government.
CONTAINING,
I EARLY and authentic Accounts of the PROCEEDINGS
of CONGRESS— its LAWS, ACTS, and RESOLUTIONS,
communicated so as to Form an HISTORY of the TRANSACTIONS
sos the NATIONAL LEGISLATURE..
11. Impartial Sketches of the Debates of Congress.
111. ESSAYSon the great fubjefls of Government; also upon
the national and heal Rights of the american citizens, as
founded upon the National or State Conllitutjons ; also upon every
other Subject, which may appear fuitablc for newfpaperdifcuflion.
IV. A SERIES of PARAGRAPHS, calculated to catch the
« living manners as they r i se," and to point the public
attention to Obje&s that have an important reference to dome/lie,
facial and public happiness.
V. The Interests of the United States as conue&ed with their li
terary Institutions —religiousand moral Obje&s—lmprovements in
Science, Arts, EDUCATION and HUMANITY—their foreign
Treaties, Alliances, Connexions, &c.
VI. Every fpccies of INTELLIGENCE, which may affe&the
commercial, agricultural, manufacturing, or political INTERESTS of
the AMERICAN NATION.
VII. A CHAIN of DOMESTIC OCCURRENCES.
VIII. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELLI
GENCE.
X. The STATE of the FUNDS—Courses of Exchange—Prices
Current, &c. —
CONDITIONS.
i.
Published every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Theprice toSubfcribers (exclusive of poflage) THREE DOLLARS
tr. annum.
r 111.
The fir(l femi-annual payment to be made in three months from the
l ime cjfubjeribing, andfuture payments to be made ei'ery fix months.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will be receded in all the capital towns upon the Continent; also at No.
9, Maiden-Lane, near the Ofwcgo-Market,,New-York.
To the PUBLIC.
AT this important Crisis, the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with Events of the greatest magnitude—to strengthen and
complete the UNION of the States—to extend and protetl their
COMMERCE, under equal Treaties yet to be formed—to explore
and arrange the NATIONAL FUNDS—to restore and cftablifh
the PUBLIC CREDIT —and ALL under the aufpicesof an untri
ed System of Government, will require the ENERGIES of the
Patriotsand Sages of our Country—Hence the propriety of encreafng
the Mediums of Knowlege and Information.
AMERICA, from this period, begins a new Era in her nation
al existence—"the world is ai.l before her" —The
•wisdom and folly—the misery and prol'perity of the EMPIRES,
STATES, and KINGDOMS, which have had their day upon
the great Theatre of Time, and are now no more, suggest the mofl
important Mementos—These, with the rapid series of Events, in
which our own Country has been so c\ccply interested, have
taught the enlightened Citizens of the* United States, that FREE
DOM and GOVERNMENT—LIBERTY and LAWS, are inse
parable.
This Conviflion has led to the adoption of thr New Constituti
on; for however, various the Sentiments, refpe&ing the ME
RITS of this System, all good men are agreed in the neceflity
thatexifts, of an EFFICIENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
A paper, therefore, eftablifhcd upon NATIONAL, INDE
PENDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRINCIPLES—whi.h shall
takeupthe premised Articles, upon a competent flan, it is
prefumcd, will be highly interesting, and meet with public ap
probation and patronage.
The Editor of this Publication is determined to leave no avenue
us informaton unexplored :—He solicits the afliftance of Perfbns
of leisure and abilities—which, united with his own afliduity, he
flatters himfelf will render the Gazette of the ynitcd States not
unworthy general encouragement and is, with due refpeft,
the public's humble servant. THE EDITOR.
POSTSCRIPT.
SIX Months have now elapsed Jirne this paper wa< upie red
into exigence —how far theffirit of the plan has been exhibited, and
adhered to, is vot jor the Editor to fay.—A generous and candid pub
lic has awarded its approbation, by a fubfeription which is said to be
more fxtenfive than ufyal on similar occaftons. —An acknowledge went of
the favor is therefore due from the publisher.—The expence attending an
undertaking of this kind is always great; in the prefer t inflance, it has
not been counterbalanced by any of the customary receipts on account oj
*dvertifeinents —the ohjeSl being an extenftve circulation, the Editor con
ceiving that their insertion wonld have counteracted that part of his plan
has never admitted any. This cons if it was nece/fary to bt
j"BZ e Jlcd,u'ould point out the importance of punctuality on the part of the
S u "jcribers— it appears to have been very generally attended to, as tht
Payments have been unusually prompt.
It is necessary to observe that the number of names which have honored
the fubfo iption, (at the present time about 650,) is not fufjicient to defray
the expence of the publication, and to afford the Editor a competer..
(upport, en a Juppoftjen that the whole jnovtd be collected.—Additiona\
Jubfcript ions are therefore solicited ; and when it is confide red, that thi
paper is new in its conflruflion ; contains intelligence of the mofl inter
tftii'g nature ; abounds with more originality than any other periodical
fubhcution\ and, viewed as a mifeellany, is cheaper thar any maga
ziie, regijler, £3c. it can not be doubted but that it will receive an ade
quate patronage.
In the present number, the publication of the fourvals of the Serntt
» commenced. As there is no gallery 'to the Senate Chamber, ail tha
be kfivzun of the proceedings of that Mofl Honorable branch of tht
national Legislature,is from their Journals ; in this viewof the fubjeCt,h
ufutyojedtkey will be interefiing to the public. The price of the Laws ana
He Journals of the two Houses only, which will be given in the courft
°J one year, amounts to more than the fubfeription.
The Editor is determined to prcfecute the publication, upon its origi
,:ai Principles : He hopes to make it more interefiing, by tht commvm
"]t ons oj his ingenious corrcfpondents : He Jolicits the aid oj every
I ' -"' tf to faer.ee, freedom and government: And such fpeculaUons as
17 <1 friendly ofpe Tf o the peace, honor and prosperity of our riftng
nctimi. be received with gratitude by the public's humbU servant
JOHN FEW NO.
is V. VV-Yo r» K. Q.7c'\'>- 14, 1789.
WEDNESDAY, October 14, 1739.
THE TABLE T.—No. LIII.
" The difirc of knowledge, like the thirjl of riches
incrcases with the acquisition of it."
MANY philosophers have doubted whether
learning, distributed among the great mafsof the
people, contributes to the real liappinefs of so
ciety. The iuquifitive mind of man can never be
fatisfied with attainments in knowledge ; and eve
ry new acquisition only encreafes his natural rest
lessness of spirit. There is a plausibility in this
mode ot reasoning ; but nevertheless it is salaci
ous. Though it muiit be confelled that learning
does not produce contentment, Hill it affords a
source of fatisfacftion, which positively adds to the
quantity of human happiness. It renders the
mind active as well as contemplative. Its plea
sures and pains become more numerous and in
tenle. The happiness of an ignorant man can be
called nothing uiore than an exemption from mi
sery.
But whether as individuals we should be more
or less happy, as our understanding is more or
less improved, yet as members of a community,
the utility of men, may be generally said to be
proportioned to their knowledge. This remark
however admits of exceptions. Those men whose
curiolity pushes them into vain researches of lite
rature may arrive at great attainments and Itill be
very useless members of the community. A spi
rit of enquiry among a people will in time regu
late itfelf, and the bulk of the citizens will fall
into pursuits that are beneficial. The reason why
demagogues in some of the antient govern
ments blew up a flame in society so frequently
was, that the mass of the people were uninformed.
They could not distinguish the lioneft remon
strances of a real patriot from the petulant cla
mours of pretended ones. In the United States
the inhabitants are less liable to be deceived, as
there are so many men of information that the
valueof characters can be fairly estimated. This
diffufion of knowledge promises one of the best
fafeguards as well as one of the brightell orna
ments of our new government. There can be lit
tle danger either of oppreflion or infurreiflion in
a country where the inhabitants generally know
how to read. The public opinion becomes so just
and refpecflable that rulers durst not make op
preflive laws, and the people wish not to violate
such as are wife and salutary.
It is a pleasing circumstance to observe legisla
tors attempting to guard the liberties of their
country by bills of rights, and checks and explana
tions upon the constitution- Such precautions have
no doubt a good effevfl. But all the political con
ltitutions that the art of man can frame will ne
ver perpetuate the freedom of an ignorant peo
ple ; nor can any original defeats in a form of go
vernment fubje<ft an enlightened people to slavery.
It is worthy the serious attention of legislators to
make provisions in all parts of the country for
public schools. Mod of these should extend little
further than teaching children to read and write,
and perhaps to unelerftand some of the lower
branches of mathematicks. It would not be amiss
at the fame time, to have a political or moral
chatechifm introduced that should inftru(fl chil
dren in the great duties which men as well as ci
tizens should observe to each other. By this
means a foundation would be laid for laboring
people to refle(fl and gain further knowledge as
opportunity offers. They might gradually pro
gress without interfering with pursuits of buli
nefs ; and when once they had tailed the sweets
of learning, their ardor would generally keep
pace with their advantages for gaining improve
ment.
ANECDOTE.
The following STORY in half a century more, will
fcarccly be believed.
NOT very many years ago, the French King's
taylor, having acquired a princely fortune, pur
chased a. chat ea/i in the neighborhood of Versailles.
In that neighborhood lived likewise a little
Marquis, whose pride and poverty were equally
on a par. The taylor turned gentleman, dined
in a large party at the house of a friend ; there
too dined the Marquis. After dinner the quon
dam profeffion of the former was accidentally
brought on the carpet, and the Marquis felt all
the indignance of nobility stained by fnch an as
sociation, he flepped up to the burgeois gentil
homme,and without any ceremony enquired if he
could make him a suit of clothes ? " Volontiers,"
said the other, " an lioneft man lhould never be
" afliamed of his profeffion—myfervant," added
he, pulling the bell, " will fetch me paperanda
pair of fciflars, that 1 may proceed withoutlofs of
time to measure you." This was done, and the
Marquis questioned as to the quality and richness
of the ftufF, &c. He left every thing to the tay-
\_Publijhed c,n IV ednefday and Saturday
lor, putting 110 limits to liis comntiffion ; and the
other called the company towitnefs the latitude
he had given him. The fuic of clothes in a few
days was delivered to the Marquis, exactly fuclias
is usually worn by the Dauphin on a birtli-day,
covered with gold, with pearls, and other precious
ornaments. On this occasion, the bill, you may
be sure, was not forgotten ; it amounted to thirty
thousand livrts, precisely the value of the Mar
quis's estate. An adtion was afterwards institu
ted for recovery of the debt, the estate fold, and
the Marquis put in pofleffion of a suit of clothes,
which constituted his whole property.
MR. FENNO\
As the public curiohty h&s again been excited refpi fling the MAM with
the IRON MA) A, zvho was Jo long confined in the Bajiile, the follow
ing account oj who the perjon was, publiflied many years since, which
appeals very pliufible at leajl, may net be unacceptable to your readers.
C. D.
IT must be recolle&ed that Lewis XIV. was exceflively amor
ous, and had several miftrefles. Amongst the reft was one without
beauty, but tall and well ftiaped, and whose wit and fine fetife
made more than amends for the deficiency of her personal graces. '
The King loved herto diftra&ion, and by her had a son, on whom
he conferred the title of Duke de Vermandois, and caused him to
be educated with all imaginable care. He was handsome; well
made, full of vivacity, but haughty and pallionatc, and could not
bear to pay the Dauphin, the only legitimate son of Lewis XIV.
the refpe& due to a Prince born to be his King. These two young
princes, near the fame age, were of very opposite characters. The
Dauphin, poffefled of the fame personal advantages as the Duke,
excelled him by his mildness, his affability, and a heart full of
goodness and generosity. These qualities, as estimable as uncom
mon in a Prince born to hereditary power, rendered the Dauphin
the obje£t of the Duke's contempt, who miffed no occasion of cx
prcfling his concern for the French nation, destined one day to o
bey a Prince without spirit, and Unworthy to rule. The King was
informed ofthis behavior of the Duke, and saw how blameablc it
was; but authority yielding to parental affc&ion, deprived him
of the power to correct his favorite son. The Duke, encouraged
by this indulgence, so faT forgot himfelf as one day to give the
Dauphin a blow. The King was presently acquainted with it,
and trembled for the criminal. Whatever inclination he had to
diffemblc this affront, the dignity of the crown, and the distur
bance it made at Court, got the better of his tenderness. He as
sembled, not without relu&ance, his favorite ministers, to whom
he difclofcd his concern, and demanded their advice. In pro
portion to the enormity of the crime, and according to the max
ims of State, they all judged it merited death. However* one of
the council, more sensible of the King's affection than the reft,
said, there was a way to punifli the Duke without taking his life.
He proposed the King should immediately fend him to the army
then on the frontiers of Flanders ; that soon after his arrival there,
it should be given out he was feiz; d with the plague, to prevent
his being vifitcd by persons of diftin&ion ; that after a few days
pretended illnets, it should be reported he was dead ; and that,
while in the fight of the army, his funeral ceremonies being per
formed in a manner suitable to his birth, he (hould by night be
secretly conveyed to the island of St. Margaret, where he ffiould
be imprisoned for life. This advice was approved by the King.
Faithful perlons were intruded with the execution of it. The
Duke fct out for the army with a splendid equipage. The reft of
the scheme was executed as laid down; and while the whole tamp
bewailed the imagined death of this unhappy prince, he w-*s
conduced through bye-ways to the castle of St. Margaret, and
put into the hands of the governor, who had before hand received
orders from the King to fuffer his prisoner to be seen by no other
person whatever. The Duke was allowed one single domestic,
who was in the secret ; but he dying on the road, the guards dis
figured him with their sabres, to prevent his being known ; and
leaving him stripped for the fame reason, continued their journey.
The governor received and treated his prisoner with the greateit
refpeft. He served him in person, receiving whatever he wanted
from the fcrvants at the door of the Duke's apartment, without
fuffcring any of them tocnter, so that he remained invisible to all
about him. One day, however, he bethought himfelf of graving
his name on the back of a silver plate, with the point of his knife ;
the servant who discovered this,broughtittohis mafter,in hopes of
a reward ; but the unhappy wretch was killed on the spot, that
the secret might die with him. The Duke remained for some
years in this prison, till the governor being advanced to the go
vernment of the Baftile. at Paris, it was thought proper to transfer
with him his illustrious prisoner. Both at St. Margaret's and the
Baftile, whenever, on account of sickness, or any other occasion,
they were obliged to let the Duke be seen, he was constrained to
wear a mask. Several persons worthy of credit affirm they have
seen him thus. If it be queried why the Duke, having so long
outlived both the King and Dauphin, was not releafcd, it must be
considered as impoflibleto rcftore to his rank, dignity, or estate,
a Prince, whose tomb existed, and of whose obsequies so many
then living were witnesses; so that it would have been scarce
poflible to undeceive the people, who to this day believe he died
of the plague vn the camp of Flanders.
EXTRACT.
. There is nothing more ridiculous in men, or
argues greater ignorance of themselves, than to
be crying, as they frequently do, we will do such
a thing, or such a thing, and then have done.
Alas h there is noltoppingtheprogrefs ofthe paf
lions without extinguiftiing life : A fire will as
soon burn without air . While there will be de
sires ; and these being of things to come, it is im
poflible to confine them to the present instant, or
any stated point of time : We cannot fay to them,
Thus far go, and no further, since progrelfion is
necefiary to their existence. There is no medium,
between death and motion ; and when we cease
to proceed, we cease to be.
To be doing, therefore, is a consequence of
living ; and idleness is but a diliberation of what
is to be done next. Old men are generally blam'd
for laying platforms and foundations of great
works and buildings, which they cannot live to
feefinifhed ; but I think the censure is groiindlefs,
since by this means they cut out certain business
and entertainment for themselves, and open a
source of perpetual new adtion and observation,fiftd confequeatly of new pleasure. Such hilling
projects are therefore proper methods to keep up
and encourage expedition, which is the food
and relief of life. Our whole delight is in pro
ceeding.
Besides, these gentlemen who tnrji undertakers
when it is grown late in life, do seldom or never
consider, that they mult depart and leave their
I'chemes unexecuted : they think they have got
a knack of living ; and as every one is apt to pre
fer liimfelf to all the rell, he is alio apt to Hat
ter lumfelf with the hopes of better fortune, and
longer life, than any other enjoys.
There was a gentleman in D , who,
after he was fourfcore, planted in a field a row
of walnut-trees, which, it foems, do not bear
fruit in many years after they are set ; and when
a neighbour told him, that the boys would Ileal
the nuts, " Oh," fays old eighty, " let me alone
to deal with the ttoys !" And Mr Hobbs, in the
90th year of his age, made him a warm winter
coat, wliic'h he said mult la(t him three years, and
then he would have such another.
LETTERS,
Written in Holland, in the Year M,DCC,LXXX,
By His Excellency
THE VICE-PRESIDENT ofthe United States.
LETTER I.
Amsterdam, Oct. 4, 1780.
si R,
YOU delire an exaift and authentic inform
ation of the American affairs ;
with a previous concise account of their course be
fore, during, and after the commencement of
hostilities.
To give a stranger an adequate idea ®f the rife
and progress of the dispute between Great Bri
tain and America, would require much time, and
many volumes: It comprises the hiltory of En
gland, and the United States of America, for
twenty years ; that of France and Spain for five
or fix ; and that of all the maritime Powers of
Europe for two or three. Suffice it to fay, that
immediately upon the conquest of Canada from
the French, in theyeari7S9, Great-Britain seem
ed to be seized with a jealousy against the Colo
nies, and then concerted the plan of changing
their forms of government —of retraining their
trade within narrower bounds, and railing a re
venue within them by the authority of parlia
ment, for the avowed or pretended purpose of
protecting, securing, and defending them. Ac
cordingly, in the year 1 76p, orders were lent
from the Board of Trade, in England, to the cus
tom-House Officers in America, to apply to the
Supreme Courts of Justice for writs of alfiftance,
to enable them to carry into a more rigorous exe
cution certain a<fts of Parliament, called the acts
of trade (among which the famous navigation act
was one, the fruit of the ancient Englilh jealousy
of Holland) by breaking open houses, ships or cel
lars, chests, Itores, and magazines, to search for
nncuftomed goods In molt ofthe Colonies these
writs were refufed. In Maflachufetts Bay, the
question, whether such writs were legal and con
stitutional, was solemnly and repeatedly argued
before the Supreme Court, by the molt learned
counsel in the Province.
The Judges of this Court held their contmif
fions during the pleasure of the Governor and
Council, and the Chief Jultice dying at this time,
the famous Mr. Hutch i nson was appointed,pro
bably with a view of deciding this cause in favor
of the Crown ; which was accordingly done. But
the arguments advanced upon that occasion by
the Bar and the Bench, opened to the people such a
view of the designs of the British Government a
gainlt their liberties, and the danger they were
in, as made a deep imprelfion upon the public,
which never wore out.
From this moment, every measure of the Britilh
Court and Parliament, and of the King's Gover
nors and other servants, confirmed the people in
an opinion of a fettled design to overturn tliofe
constitutions, under which their anceltors had
emigrated from the old world, and with infinite
toil, danger and expence, planted a new one. It
would be endless to enumerate all the acts of Par
liament, and measures of Government; but in
1764, Mr. George Grenvi ll e moved a number
of refolntions in Parliament, which palled, for
laying a valt number of heavy duties upon Itamp
ed paper ; and in I 765, the act of Parliament was
made, called the Stamp Act: Upon this, there
was an universal rising of the people in every co
lony, compelling the Stamp-Officers by force to
relign, and preventing the ftainped papers from
being nfed, and, indeed, compelling the courts
of jultice to proceed in bulinefs without them.—
My Lord Rockingham, perceiving the impolfi
bility of executing this statute, moved, by the
help of Mr. Pitt, for the repeal of it, and ob
tained it, which reltored peace, order and har
mony, to America ; which would have continued
to this hour, if the evil genius of Great Britain
had not prompted her to revive the reliltance of
the people, by frelh attempts upon their liber
ties, and new acts of Parliament imposing taxes
vipon them.
In 1767, they palled another act of Parliament,
laying duties upon glass, paper, painters colours
and tea. This revived the dilcontents in America:
But Government sent over a Board of Commilfion
ers, to oversee the execution of this a<£t of Parlia
ment, and all others impoling duties, with a mul
titude of new officers for the fame purpose ; and
in 1 768, tor the firft time, sent four thousand re
gular troops to Boston, to protedt the revenue of
ficers in the colletftion of the duties.
Loth to commence lioftilities, the people had
recourse to non-importation agreements, and a
variety of other measures, which in 1770 induced
Parliament to repeal all the duties upon glass, pa
per and painters colours ; but left the duty upon
tea unrepealed. This produced an aflbciation not
to drink tea. In 1770 the animosity between the
inhabitants of Bolton anil the King's troops grew
so high, that a party of the troops fired upon a
croud of people in the streets, killing five or fix,
and wounding some others. This railed such a
spirit among the inhabitants, that, in a body, they
demanded the instant removal of the troops;
which was done, the Governor ordei ingthein down
to Castle lfland, some miles from the town.
In 1773, the British government, determined to
carry into execution the duty upon tea, impow
ered the East India Company to export it to Ame
rica. They sent some cargoes to Boston, some to
New-York, some to Philadelphia, and fotne to
Charleftoii. The inhabitants of New-York and
Philadelphia, sent the Ihips back to London, and
they failed up the Thames, to proclaim to all the
nation, that New-York and Pennsylvania would
not be enslaved. The inhabitants of Charleston
unloaded it, and stored it in cellars, where it
could not be used, and where it finally perished.
The inhabitants of Boston tried every meafureto
fend the fhipsback, like New-York andPhiladel
phia; but not being permitted topafsthe Castle,
the tea was all thrown into the sea.
1 his produced several vindictive aifts of Parlia
ment ; one, for flarving the town of Boston, by
fliutting up the port; another, for abolishing the
coijftitution of the province, by destroying their
charter ; another, for fending persons to England
to be tried for treason, &c.
These arts produced the Congress of 1774, w ho
stated the rights and grievances of the Colonies,
and petitioned for redress. Their petitions and
remonstrances were all negledied, and treated
with contempt, General Gage had been sent o
ver with an army to enforce the Boston Port Bill,
and the art for destroying the charter. This ar
my, on the 19th of April, 1775, commenced hos
tilities at Lexington, which have been continued
to this day.
You fee, Sir, by this most imperfed: and hasty
sketch, that the war is already twenty years old.
And lean truly fay, that the people, through the
whole courfeof this long period, have been grow
ing constantly every year more and more unani
mous and determined to resist the designs of Great
Britain.
I fliould be alhamed to lay before a gentleman
of Mr. Calkoen's abilities, so rude a sketch, if
I had not equal confidence in his candor and dis
cretion, which will indulge me as I may have
leisure, to continue to sketch a few observations
upon your questions.
I have the honor to be &e.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
(To be continued.)
EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS.
PARIS, JULY 24.
M. de Be aum arch a is,has facrificed 12,000 li
vres in favor of the unfortunate inhabitants of
the suburbs of St. Anthony. Altho his office of
Secretary to the King enlists him among the No
bles, he has desired to be admitted among the
Commoners; and this trait of humility, without
taking any thing from the diftinguiffied honors of
his office, muftneceflarily put an end to the illi
beral iarcafms which some persons have allowed
tliemfelves to throw out upon him.
This evening, M. de la Fayette, no doubt
afraid of not being able to operate all the good
he could wiffi, and thwarted besides by the im
proper conduct of the people, and shocking be
haviour of the populace, in doing justice to tliem
felves, without the assistance of the law, gave up
his commission of Colonel-General of the Parisi
an guards ; but he was so earnestly requested to
continuein it, andM. Bailly himfelf exprefled
with so much eloquence the willies of all the ci
tizens, that he triumphed over themodeftyof the
hero, who never fought but for liberty, and the
equalrightsof mankind.
July 31. We have accounts froui Metz, the
Marlhal de Brog lio, and the Prince de Lam be sc,
notfinding tliemfelves fafe in that place, had en
trenched tliemfelves in the Citidel of Verdun
where there are three regiments in garrison •
but that thoie troops desert apace, and will not
fire upon the citizens, who are befiegingthe two
fugitives,and are determined to open the trenches
or starve the place out.
£Dt!>r3URGH, JULY 5.
It is with pleasure we learn, that Mr. Midi
of Dalfwinton lias lately completed his expcri
mem for ascertaining the steam engine in mov~
mg ihrps. The success fully answered his ex
pec'iations, and afforded very great plealure > r ,
the fpeciators present. Therefultof this expe
rt ment must be of the greatest utility to society
in general, but more particularly to trading
countries which abound in coal or wood.
LONDON, AUGUST 7.
MONSIEUR NECKAR's RESTORATION.
The entrance and comportment of this great
minister, on his return to the National AHembly
were 1110 ft univefally commemorated j when ]y|
de Mirabeau and the Bilhop of Aix, had rife* tO .
lupportM. Neckar, and he had recovered liiinfelf
enough to proceed, he took his handkerchief
from his face, and this was
His SPEECH.
" Meflieurs—l obey your commands, and throw
niyfelf before ye!
" Bound as to my own happiness, I pant in
ceflantly for yours. For ye are, ye will be, the
preservers of your country, where I had not the
bliss to be born ; but it will be my glory to serve
if I can serve any good purpose, if 1 do not live
and labour in vain !
" Would to God powers could keep pace with
my wilhes, that my ability might be equal to my
zeal.
" Not that this noble nation depends on such
llender holds as powers and purposes like mine.
True to herfelf, and fafe in the providential sys
tem of nations, what imports it to her, what in
dividuals may be precarious or frail ?
" The resources of France arc infinite ! What
can they not do ? What have they not done !
They have brought ftrengtli out of weakness— or
der out of confufion.
" The resources of France are infinite !—Ha.e
they not surmounted such a feeble mini ft ry as
mine ?
" The resources of Fiance are infinite—ln all
human qualities that array and adorn the national
charatfier of men ; and all earthly possibility, of Iky
and foil, arts and arms, to constitute political
force—What nation is there, that will beableto
refill ns ?—What nation, duly enlightened, will
noL wish us to be irresistible ? I speak as I feel, and
as I interpret on the feelings of all around me!"
This panegyric on the popular character—hy
perbolical perhaps, but certainly well timed—
did wonderful execution. The assembly were all
taken at onee ; and there was throughout a silent,
fultained attention, sffetfiing beyond any other
possible expreflion.
Monf. Neckar saw his advantage, and pnrfued
it thus faultering for a word or two, and
when recovering his articulation, altering bis
key—
" You hear ine, Mes Comperes, Amis Donees if
Nobles —ye hear me with indulgent ears ; you are
partial to my purposes ; you are kind to my de
fers, But chara(fter you can dive into (apprcfor.-
tiir) motives you can weigh ; you know how grate
ful I am—how ufbful I wish to be.
" Such as I am, I need not tell ye; lam in
deed yours—Dispose of me as you will.
" I will fay no more."
In a dark dungeon in the Baftile, a dead body
in chains has been found, in a narrow close cup
board, dried like an Egyptian Mummy—a Cad
vi<ftim to the ministerial delpotifm of former
times.
PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
JOURNAL of the FIRST SESSION or the
SENATE of the UNITED STATES.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 1789.
THE following members of tlie Senate ap
peared and cook their feats :—From
N. Hampshire, The Hon. £ £ e whtgate/"' 1
Maflkchufetts The Hon. Caleb Strong,
„T, rr C Wm. S. fohnfon and
Connecticut, The Hon. | oHver jf nfwort h,
D - T . „ C William Maclay and
Pennfylvama, The Hon. J Robert Morris>
Georgia, The Hon. William Few.
The number not being fufficient toconihtutea
quorum, they adjourned from day to day, untl
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1789-
The fame members present as on the 4th .
greed that the following circular letter fbou
written to the absent members, requeuing t el
immediate attendance.
New-York, March 11, 17®9"
SIR,
AGREEABLY to thfc Conftitntion ofthe Uni
ted States, eight members of the Senate, *
eighteen of the House of Representatives, »
attended here lincethe4thof March. 11 en;y
theutmoft importance that a quorum fu c >
proceed to bufinefslhould be aflembled as 0
poflible, it is the opinion of the gentlemen 0
Houses, that information of their fituation 1
mediately communicated to the absent meWe apprehend that no arguments are necefTary
to evince to you the indifpenfible neceflity of put
ting the Government into immediate operation ;
and therefore earnestly request, that yon will be
so obliging as to attend as soon as pollible.
We have the honor to be, Sir,
Your molt obedient humble servants,
John Langdort, Oliver Ellfworth.
Paine Wir.gate, Robert Morris.
Caleb Strong, William Maclay,
William S. Johnson, William Feu>.
To the Honorable
Triflrom D alt on, John Henry,
William Patter/on Richard Henry Lee,
Jonathan Elmer, William Gray/on,
George Read Ralph Izard,
Richard Baffett, Pierce Butler,
Charles Carroll, James Guntl.
Adjourned to 11 o'clock to-morrow morning.
THURSDAY, MARCH 12.
The number fufficient to make a quorum not ap
pearing, they adjourned from day to day, until
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18.
Present, the fame as on the 12th.
Agrded that the following circular letter flionld
be written to eight of the absent members, urging
their immediate attendance.
New-York, March 18, 1789.
SIR,
WE addrefled a letter to you the nth instant,
since which no Senator has arrived. The House
of Representatives will probably be formed in
two or three days. Your presence is indifpenfi
bly neceflary. We therefore again earnestly re
quest your immediate attendance, and are confi
dent you will not fuffer our, and the public anxi
ous expectations to be disappointed.
We have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient humble servants,
John Langdon, Oliver Ell/worth,
Paine Wingate, Robert Morris,
Caleb Strong William Maclay,
William S. Johnson, William tew.
To the Honorable
'Jonathan Elmer Charles Carroll,
William Patterfon John Henry,
George Read, Richard Henry Lee,
Richard Bajfett, William Gray/on.
Adjourned to it o'clock to-morrow morning.
(To be continued.)
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 14.
We are informed that THE ILLUSTRIOUS
PRESIDENT of the United States will fetout on
a Tour to the Eastward To-Morrow Morning :
We are further informed, that he proposes to go
as.far as Portsmouth, New-Hampshire.
Thofc parts of the Union which have been io long favored with
the presence of the beloved Father of the great American Fami
ly-well participate iri the pleasure that their Eastern Brethren will
enjoy on this ayfpiciou* occafiori.
It can not bp doubted but that the moll salutary confequencei
will result from this wife and benevolent measure.
The ocular denionftxation which this opportunity will afford,
of the peace and harmony of the people under the new Constitu
tion—os the growing profperityot the country —of the flourifh-.
ing (late of its agriculture, manufactures and commerce ; and
especially of the warm and unparalleled attachment of the people
to the firft of citizens, and best of men— will serve to animate the
ruler of our rising country $ in the discharge of the arduous duties
of his high office. At the fame time the operation of the I.aws
which have been ena£ted will be noticed with that follcitude
"which on all occasions has evinced how tenderly concerned the
President of the United States is for the real mtereft, accommoda
tion and happiness of the citizcns.
On Friday last His Excellency The Countde Mousti e r had
his audience of leave from The President of the United States,
having received permifiion from His Mod Christian Majesty to
return to France.
Among other diftinguilhed Pcrfonages at The President's Levee
yellerday, His Excellency the late Ambassador of France attended
as The Right Hon. The Count de Moustirr.
His Excellency The Vice-President of the United States
left this city Yesterday Morning, on a vifitto his feat at Braintree,
in Massachusetts.
On Saturday failed the snow San Nicholas, Melide, fer Bilboa.
His Excellency Don Diego de Gardoqui, Encargado de Ne
gocios, and Minister of his Catholic Majesty to the United States,
wentpaflcnger in this vessel, accompanied by hifc fon,andoneof
hisfecretarios.
Previous to His Excellency's departure, he waited on The Pre
sident of the United States, and had his audieuce ot leave in due
form : At the fame time His Excellency introduced the Hon. Mr.
Vi ar, 3s Ch argedes Affaires from HisMoftCatholic Majesty.
By letters from Georgia of the 12th ulr. we learn, that theCom
miflioners Plenipotentiary from the United States, tor fettling a
treaty with the Southern Indians, arrived at Savanna on the 10th
•f September in perfect health—That .they were to set out for the
place of treaty the 13th —That accounts had been received, that
several thousand Indians were ex petted to attend, and every ap
pliance indicated-a favorable issue to the negociation.
Extrau of a letter from Fayetti-Ville, North-Carolina>
dated September 12.
" I tliink there is not a doubt that the Con
tention which is toineet here in November, will
adopt the Conflitution —the amendments will do
the bnfinefs.
" The season has been remarkably forward. —
1 lax-feed began to be brought in so early as July.
—The crops of tobacco and wheat are very great.
" This State is fettled by persons from all
quarters, and many who come from the eastward
'all vicftims to the climate, but then it is more
owing to their own folly—they take care of them
selves for a time, and then fall off to intemper
ance, which foojiputs them under ground.——c oui
young men have died martyrs to rum, within a
liwje while."
What a spirit of free enquiry pervadestlie Uni
ted States ! a universal toleration in matters of
religious opinion has done more to unfetter the
human mind in a few years, than whole centuries
of bigotry and superstition—That flood of light
which poured in upon the world, when the press
began to fend forth its treafures,illuminated man
kind to an aftoniihing degree, and raised human
nature from the molt abje<ft deprelfion, to a rani:
in the scale of being hitherto unknown. —This
roused the powers of darkness ; but the throne
of ignorance being lliaken to the centre, down
fell the whole system of scholastic mummery,
prieftcraft, and falfe philosophy, which had been
eftablilhing itfelf for ages on the ruins At com
mon sense, and public happinela—witchcraft, ne
cromancy, juggling, and judicial astrology, which
not a century lince formed no inconsiderable part
of the creed of the world, are now founds with
outameaning : Much however remains to be done.
In America, we trust, the human mind will have
fair play—and that every species of falfe philo
sophy, falfe religion, and falfe government, will
flee before the light of reason, and the dictates
of common sense.
There is a general desire among mankind to
live without labor : This aversion to corporeal
exercise, gives rife to millions of expedients to
enable men to live by their wirs. Hence the in
numerable pretenders in every art and profeflion
in which there is the least connexion, with hard
work ; but among all the profeflions which fuffer
from this cause, there is none can be compared to
the clerical—a circumstance greatly to be regret
ted, as at this enlightened period, mankind want
something besides noise, whining, and cant, to
allure them to the practice of religious and moral
duties.
The right of the people to keep and bear arms
has been recognized by the General Government;
but the belt security of that right after all is, that
military spirit, that taste for martial exercises,
which has always diftinguiflied the free citizens
of these States : From various parts of the Conti
nent the molt plealing accounts are publiflied of
reviews and parades in large and small afleinblies
of the militia.—The people appear determined
to avail themselves of the circumstance, which
our patriotic and beloved President pointed out
in one of his meflages to Congress, viz. That
fund of military knowledge which is diffufed
through the States by the Orticersof the late Con
tinental Army. A spirit of emulation is excited ;
and not only in cities and towns, where the peo
ple being more compatft, can with greater ease
concert, and carry their plans into execution—
but in the country towns also, whole Regiments
are clothed in Uniform —and bodies ot Horse com
pletely equipped have been raised and disciplined.
men form the belt barriei'to the Liberties
of America.—And when called to defend their
Country—they fight for all that gives worth to
existence.
Several reviews of the militia in different parts
of this State have recently taken place —the su
perior officers and fpe&ators have bestowed me
rited applause 011 the appearance and deportment
of the rcfpeiftive corps.—The following accounts
are selected from the eastern papers.
ct Spr 1 ncfi e ld, Sept. 30. On Wcdncfday last the regihient
commanded by Col. Bu R t, was reviewed and infpefted by Major
General Sheparo and his suit, at Palmer. Among the manycir
cumftances in favor of the troops, that of their having paid a due
attention to the uniform which the General had recommended
sometime previous to their meeting, was particularly noticed by
him. They made a refpeftable appearance, and received the
plaudit of a very large collection of fpeflatort."
" The fame day, the troop of horse, commanded by Captain
Cutler, was also reviewed. This company of cavalry was in
complete uniform of red—and received the entire approbation of
the Major General, and the applause of every person present.
" Worcester, Oft. 8. The military spirit of this Common
wealth was never known to rage higher since the war, than at the
present period. A regiment of Horse, all completely equipped,
and in perfect uniform, belongs to this county. They consist of
500 men .
" Lad Thursday Col. Rice's regiment, confiUing of eightcotn
panies, all in uniform, were reviewed at Northborough, by Major
General W a r n e R.
" We hear that the 2d regiment of foot was reviewed at Men
don,'in this county, on Tuefaay laft,and that the 4th and sth are to
be reviewed this day at Oxford.
" Last week Gen. Cobb reviewed a regiment of militia, a corps
of cavalry, and one of Artillery, at Taunton. All the officers, the
Horse, Artillery, and nine companies of Infantry were in uniform.
At Salem, Gen. Titcomb also reviewed Col. Bricket s regi
ment, Capt. Osgood's Horse, and a corps of Artillery 800 men.
Sunday arrived here from Boston, his Most Christian Majesty's
Frigate l'A&ive, commanded by Monf. TR sv e r say ; on ooming
to anchor (he fired a salute, which was answered by the guns from
the battery.
By a gentleman from France, who left Bourdeaux the 25th of
August, we learn that peace was fully reflored to that kingdom—
that the National Affemblyhad nearly completed the new Confu
tation ; and that the accounts of maflacres. See. which had been
published were greatly exaggerated : not one quarter part being
true.
According to an estimate lately made by a gentlemen of this
city, chiefly from actual accounts received from the several prin
ters, it appears that the number of Newspapers printed in the
United States, weekly, is 76,438— annually 3,974,776, which at
4 cents each, amounts to 158,991 dollars and 4 cents.
ARRIVALS NEW-YORK.
Sunday Brig Diligent, Quebec, — days.
Schooners Sally, Murphy, Charleston, 14 days.
Sloop Hancock, Brown, Rhode-Island, 2 days.
Monday Schooner Edwards. Burton Shelburne, 12 days.
Sloop Three Friends, Claflon, Digby — days.
Schooner Bell, Bell, St. Johns, 8 days,
Tue/daySloop Cato, Mills, Baltimore, 8 days.
NEW-YORK, October 14, 1789.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sel>T. 19, 1789.
ESTIMATE of the EXPENDITURE
For the CIVIL LIST of the United Statas, for the Year 1789.
(CONTINUED.)
For the Department of the Treasury.
Dolls. 90 ths.
COMPUTED from the iff of January, to the
nth of Sept. being the day on which the commission
of the Secretary of the Treasury is dated, and to
which time the Services of the refpeftiye officers were
actually continued. Three fcommiffioners of the
Board of Treasury, each at the rate of 2,250 dollars
pr. annum, 4>"7°6 22
Their Secretary, at the rite oF i»5 00 "°* *»°45 75
Three Clerks, do. 45° 94 1 2 3
MefTenger and House-keeper, 15 0 10 4 53
Accomptant of the Treasury, 800 do. 557 70
Two Clerks, at the rate of 4-5°
Register of the Treasury, ( i,200 do. 836 60
One Clerk on the books of thcpublic
creditors, called debt funded at the
Treasury, transfers, See. See. 45° "°- 3*3
One co. on the principal books of
the Treafurv, iri journalizing and post
ing, ; ... do - 313 68
One dt>. in copying fair statements
of the public accounts and other trans
cripts, as required from the Treasury
books, ® 0 ' 3*3 68
Two do. on the aid accounts of the
Treasury, and books and accounts of
late State Commissioners, do. 627 45
Treasurer of the United Stated, at the
rate of 1,250 do. 87 1 47
One fclerk at the rate of 45° 3'3
Commissioner for adjusting the accounts of the
late fecretand commercial committees of Congreis,
including Clerks wages, Office rent, and other con
tingencies from lft January to the 30th of June, to
which day warrants were llTued by the late Boaid
of Treasury on the presumption belore mentioned,
at the rateof 1,900 dollars pr: annum, 950
This Commissioner, in virtue of his appointment
by the late Board of Treasury, is in possession of all
the books and papers of those two Committees, and
it is supposed will claim a compensation until the
Commissioner of the board expired.
Commissioner for adjusting the accounts in the
ComrriifTaryandQuarter-Mafter'sDepartments from
the lft of Jan. to the Bth of May, 1789, whtyi the
commission expired, at the rate of 1,250 dollars pr.
annum, 444 5
Eight Clerks, at the rate of 1,250 dollars pr. ann. 1,279 66
Commissioner for adjusting the.accounts in the
Marine, Clothing, and Hoipital Departments, from
the ill of January to the Bth of May, when this
commission also expired, at the rate of 1,250 dol
lars, pr. anrtum, 444 5
Four Clerks, at the rate of 450 dollars, pr. ann. 637 54
One do. from the lft of January to the 31ft of
March (the time of his decease) at the rate of 450
dollars pr. annum, 112 45
is>44i 77
' for the Department of War.
Computed from the lft of January to the 12th of
Sept. when a new appointment of the Secretary was
made, his services having continued to the period
of his re-appointment.
Secretary of the Department, at the rate of 2,450
dollars pr. annum, 1 :5°9 65
Three Clerks, at the rate of 450 dollars each, 941 23
Door-keeper and MefTenger, at the rate of 150
dollars pr. annum, 104 5 Z
2.555 5°
Thirteen Loan Officers and Receivers of Taxes.
Computed from the lft. of January to the 30th of
June, to which time the late Board nf Treasury
have fettled with the Receivcrsof New-York, Ncw-
Jersey, and Delaware, the principal of which set
tlement will be applicable to all j they having been
employed both in the receipt and payments of pub
lic monies to that time—are now in possession of all
papers and records of their refpeftive offices, and it
is presumed will claim compensation to a later per
iod, at tlie rate of 12,450 dollars pr. annum—sot
thirteen, is 6,225
In relation both to the late and present Government.
For the Department of Foteign Affairs, now comprehended in the De
partment of State.
Secretary of that Department, pr annum, 3,5°°
His Secretary, or Chief Clerk, do. 800
Two other Clerks, at 450 dollars, goo
Interpreter, 250
Door-keeper and MefTenger, 150
Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of France, 9,000
His Secretary, 1,400
Charges des Affaires at the Court of Madrid, 3,000
Conlul-General in France, 1,000
Agent at the Hague, i.3°°
21,300
The Salaries of this Department, so far as they
have been regulated by the present government, re
main as before, except as to Clerks, now at a rate
not exceeding 500 dollars.
For the Officers employed to fettle the Accounts between the United Sides
and Individual States.
Three Commissioners of the General
Board, each at 2,250 dollars per an
num is 6,750
Deduct for vacancy of 3d Commifr
fioner, from 20th April to 7th August, 675
6.075
Chief Clerk, at 600 dollars pr. annum, from sth
of August, 2 45
Two Clerks, each 450 dollars pr. annum, 900
MelTenger and Door-keeper, 150
Paymafter-Geoeral and Commissary of Army
accounts, 1,25°
Ten Clerks, at the rate of 450 dollars pr. ann. 4,500
Two Clerks, at the rate of 400 dollars pr. ann. 800
Commissioner for the States of South-Carolina
and Georgia, for preparing the accounts of those
States with the United States, in order to settlement
by the General Board of Commissioners, estimated
from the lft of Januaiy to the 16th of July, when
the bunnefs was completed, 679 71
Two Clerks for the fame time, at the rate of 450
dollar 460
15.059 7*
(To be continued. JThe RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED,
(in continuation.)
" WHERE luxury takes place, there is a
" natural tendency to tyranny." There is a na
tural tendency to tyranny every where, in the lim
plell manners as well as the molt luxurious, which
nothing but force can flop. And why Ihould this
tendency be taken from human nature, where it
grows as in its native foil, and attributed to
luxury? " The nature of luxury lies altogether
" in excefSi It is an universal depravation of man
" ners, without reason, without moderation : it is
" the canine appetite of a corrupt will and plian
" tafy, which nothing can fatisfy ; but in every
" aiftion, in every imagination, it Hies beyond the
" bounds of lionelty, jultand good, into all ex
" tremity." This is declamation and rant that
it is noteafy to comprehend. There are all pos
sible degrees of luxury which appear in society,
with every degree of virtue, from the firlt dawn
ings of civil society to the last Itage of improve
ment and refinement; and civility, humanity, and
benevolence, increase commonly as fall as ambi
tion of conquest, the pride of War, cruelty and
bloody rage, dimkiiflies. Luxury, to certain de
grees of excess, is an evil; but it is not at all
times, and in all circumltances, an absolute evil.
It Ihould be restrained by morality and by law,
by prohibitions and difcouragemeiits. But the
evil does not lie here only ; it lies in human na
ture : and that mult be retrained by a mixed form
of government, which is the belt in the world to
manageluxury. Our author's government would
neyer make, or, if it made, would never execute
laws toreltrain luxury.
" That form of government," fays our author,
" mull needs be the molt excellent, andthepeo
" pie's liberty molt secured, where governors are
" leall expofedtotlie baits and snares of luxury."
That is to fay, that form of government is the
bell, and the people's liberty moll secure, where
the people are poorelt: This will never recom
mend a government to mankind. But what has
poverty or riches to do with the form of govern
ment ? If mankind inuft be voluntarily poor in
order to be free, it is too late in the age of the
world to preach liberty. Whatever Nedliam
might think, mankind in general had rather be
rich under afnnple monarchy, than poor under a
democracy. But if that is the belt form of go
vernment, where governors are leait exposed to
the baits and snares of luxury, the government
our author contends for is the worlt of all pollible
forms. There is, there can be no form in which
the governors are so nincli exposed to the baits
and Inares of luxury as in a limple democracy.
In proportion as agovernment is democratical, in
a degree beyond a proportional prevalence of mo -
liarchy and ariltocracy, the wealth, means, and
opportunities being the iame, does luxury pre
vail. Its progress is instantaneous. There can be
no subordination. One citizen cannot bear that
another Ihould live better than liimfelf; a univer
sal emulation in luxury instantly commences; and
the governors, that is those who aspire at elections,
are obliged to take the lead in this filly conten
tion : they mult not be beliind the fjremolt in
dress, equipage, furniture, entertainments, games,
races, fpedtacles; they mult fealt and gratify the
luxury of electors to obtain their votes ; and the
whole executive authority mull be proltiiuted,
and the legislative too to encourage luxury. The
Athenians made it death for any one to propose
the appropriation of money devoted to the sup
port of the theatre to any the molt necellary pur.
poses of the Hate. In monarchies and ariltocra
cies much may be done, both by precept and ex
ample, by laws and manners, to diminifli luxury
aud rellrain its growth; in a mixed government
more flill may be done for this salutary end ; but
in a limple democracy, nothing: every man will
do as he pleases—no sumptuary law will be obey
ed—every prohibition or impolt will be eluded ;
no man will dare to propose a law by which the
pleasures or liberty of the citizen lhall be re
llrained. A more unfortunate argument for a
limple democracy could not have been thought
of: it is, however, a very good one in favor of
a mixed government.
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES.
f&ntinutd Jrom No. LII.)
I WILL conclude this eflay with one argument
more in favor of my principle of taxation, which
appears to me offuch mighty weight and vafl. im
portance, as must reach the feelings and govern
the heart of every upright American, viz. That
our public union -with all its bleflings depends on it, and
is supported by it. and inuft without it diflblve, and
waste away into its original atoms. To refufe any
plan its necefliiry support, and to murder and des
troy it is the fame thing ; the union cannot be
supported without so much money as is necellarv
to that support, and that money may be raised in
the way I propose, and cannot in any other. We
have a mofl; plain and undeniable proof of fatft,
that Lhe usual mode of taxation of polls and es
tates, is in its principle unjult and unequal, be
caufc it does not operate on our people in any due
proportion to tlieir wealth : This milchief was
less felt, when our taxes were very fiuall, and
therefore though unjult, were not ruinous ; but
the cafe is greatly altered, now the taxes are grown
up into the burden which the present exigencies
of the nation require.
The said tax hitherto in use, is further ruin
ous, because it carves what money it does pro
duce, out of the very firlt resources, the original
principle of our national wealth, which like ten
der cions, lhould be nurfedand guarded with all
care, till they arrive to strength and maturity,—
then we may pluck the fruit without hurting the
tree :—To cramp and diminifli any of thel'e, is
like making bread of our feed wheat, or feeding
our mowing grounds, every quantity we take
leilens the next crop ten ; but what gives decilion
to the point is, that we have the clear proof of
experience, that the utmoll efforts in this way
have been fufficient to produce one quarter of the
sum neceflary for the public service ; nor is there
any probability of an increased production.
The mode of supply by foreign loans need not
be further reprobated ; 'tis plain to every body,
that if they can be continued, (which isdoubtful)
they will loon involve us in foreign debt, vailly
beyond all possibility of payment: Our bank
ruptcy niult ensue ; and with our bankruptcy will
go all our national character of wifdoui, integ
rity, energy of government, and every kind of
refpec r tability. Wefhall become objetfls of obloquy
—buts of insult ; and bye-words of disgrace a
broad ; an American in Europe will be alhamed
to tell where he came from. Every stranger
takes some share in the character, in the honors
or disgrace, not only of the family, but the nation
to which he belongs.
THE BASTJLE.
EXPLORE yon Cavern, frowning on the fight,
Where one faint lamp fends forth a sickly light ;
Thro folds of darkness, where yon wicket glooms,
Perfidious power lias fcoop'd the livinq tombs !
Along the filth that oozes from the walls,
The slimy snail, with track abhorrent crawls,
And oft. augmenting poisons from the top,
With sullen founds falls How the with'ring drop.
The pcililential toad that squats below,
Gathers frefli venom as those poisons flow!
Here many a fathom down, despotic rage,
Hung human vittims in the dreadful cage—
Here the poor captive, torn from child and wife,
From youth to age groan'd out detested life—
Nor nature's fun, nor art's supplying blaze,
E're Hole one beam of comfort on their days !
Noj human form, nor human hand was nigh,
To soothe the grief that gather'd in his eye ;
Save one brief glance.of man, as thro the hole,
His daily bread the silent goaler dole—
No human voice beguil'd the endless night,
That cruel (hut him from creation's light.
To soothe a miilrcfs, wanton LOUIS gave
To one who dar'd be just, this lingering grave !
To one who dar'd a proflitute pourtray,
And bring his honest satire into day.
How finks the heart, to pace this gloomy round,
How pants the Muse to leave this Tyrant bound !
CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES.
Begun and hi Id at the City of New-York, on Wednesday the Fourth
ol March, One Thou (and Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An ACT for Allowing Comtensation to the Mem
bers of the Senate and House of Reprefentathes of
the United States, and to the Officers of both Houses.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Repre
sentatives of the United States of America in Congress
assembled, That at every fefliion of Congress, and at
every meeting of the Senate in therecefs of Con
gress, prior to the fourth clay of March, in the
year one thousand seven hundred and ninety -five,
each Senator shall be entitled to receive fix dol
lars for every day he shall attend the Senate, and
shall also be allowed, at the commencement and
end of every such feflion and meeting, fix dollars
for every twenty miles of the eltimated distance,
by tli# most usual road, from his place of residence
to the feat of Congress : And in cafe any mem
ber of the Senate ihall be detained by sickness
on his journey to or from any such fefiion or meet
ing, or after his arrival shall be unable to attend
the Senate, he shall be entitled to the fame daily
allowance : Provided always, That no Senator
Ihall be allowed a sum exceeding the rate of fix
dollars a day, from the end of one such feflion
or meeting to the time of his taking a feat in ano
ther.
And be it further enabled, That at every feflion
of Congress, and at every meeting of the Senate
in the recess of Congress, after the afore said
fourth day of March, in the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-five, each Senator
fliall be entitled to receive seven dollars for every
day he shall attend the Senate ; and ihall also be
allowed at the commencement and end of every
such feflion and meeting, seven dollars for every
twenty miles of the estimated distance, by the
molt usual road, from his place of residence to
the feat of Congress : And in cafe any member
of fae Senate fliall be detained by sickness
his journey to or from anj such session or meet 11
iiig, or after his arrival fliall be unable to attend
the Senate, hefhall be entitled to the fameallow
ance of seven dollars a day : Provided always-
That no Senator shall be allowed a sum exceeding
the rate of seven dollars a day, from the end of
one such session or meeting to the time oi' his
taking a feat in a another.
And be it further enafled, That at every session
of Congress, each Representative lhall be enti
tled to receive fix dollars for every day lie (hall
attend the House of Representatives ; and shall
also be allowed at the commencement and end of
every session, fix dollars for every twenty miles
of the e(Unrated distance, by the most usual road
from his place of residence to the feat of Con
gress : And in cafe any Representative shall be
detained by sickness, on his journey to or from
the feflion of Congress, or after his arrival shall
be unable to attend the House of Representatives
he fliall be entitled to the daily allowance afore'
said : And the Speaker of the House of Repre
sentatives, to defray the incidental expences of
his office, shall be entitled to receive in addition
to his compensation as a Pveprefentative, fix del
lars for every day he shall attend the House : Pro
vided a/ways, That 110 Representative shall be al
lowed a funi exceeding the rate of fix dollars a
day, from the end of one such feflion or nieetino
to the time of his taking a feat in another.
And be it further enaflcd, That there fliall be al
lowed to each chaplain of Congress, at the rate
of five hundred dollars per annum during the
session of Congress; to the secretary of tlie Se
nate and clerk of the House of Representatives,
fifteen hundred dollars per annum eich, to com
mence from the time of their refpeetive appoint
ments ; and also a further allowance of two dol
lars per day to each, during the feflion of that
branch for which he officiates : And the said secre
tary and clerk fliall each be allowed (when the
President of the Senate or Speaker fliall deem it
neceflary) to employ one principal clerk, who
shall be paid three dollars per day, and an en
s rolling clerk, who shall be paid two dollars per
ay during the feflion, with the like compensation
to such clerk while lie fliall be neceflarily em
ployed in the recess.
And be it further enabled, That the following
compensation shall be allowed to the officers here
inafter mentioned, viz. To the ferjeant at arms,
during the fellions and while employed on thebu
finefs of the House, four dollars per day the
allowance of the present ferjeant ar arms to com
mence from the time of his appointment: To
the door-keeper of the Senate and House of Re
presentatives, for their lervices in rliofe offices,
three dollars per day during the feflion of the
House to which he may belong, for his ownfer
vices, and for the hire of neceflary laborers; the
allowance to the present door-keeper of the Se
nate to commence from the day appointed for the
meeting of Congress ; and the allowance to the
door-keeper of the House of Representatives to
commence from his appointment ; and totheaf
fiftant door-keeper to each House, two dollars
per day during the feflions.
And be it further enatled, That the said compen
sation which shall be due to the members and of
ficers of the Senate, fliall be certified by the Pre
sident ; and that which fliall be due to the mem
bers and officers of the House of Representatives,
fliall be certified by the Speaker ; and the fame
shall be pafled as public accounts, and paid outoi
the public treasury.
And be itfurther enabled, That this act shall
continue in force until the fourth day of March,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty-fix, and no longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Rcprtfcntittw-
JOH N A DAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and Prefider.t oj the SetuH
APPROVID, SEPTEMBER 22, 1 789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
An ACT for the temporary establishment of th.
POST-OFFICE.
BE it enailed by the Senate and House of 1
present atives of the United States of America in Cw
grefs ajfembted, That there shall be appoints a
Post-Master General; his powers and salary a"
the compenlation to the assistant or clerk and j
puties which he may appoint, and the regu at*
ons of the Poft-Office fliall be the fame as tie
last were under the resolutions and ordinances o
the late Congress. The Post-Master Geneia
be fubjeeft to the direction of the President o
United States in perforiningthe duties of » s 0
sice, and informing contracts for the trail po>
tion of the mail. ' •
Be it further enabled, That this a<ft fha c 0 f
line in forcfe until the end of the next le ' lon
Co„ g r. ft , »^-g- c „ sn|S
Speaker of the Nouje oj Rtf'f"""
JOHN ADAMS,
APPROVED, SEPTEMBER THE "22(5, ;J •
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the unn-.
Fublirtied by JOHN FENNO, No. 9»
Lake, near the Ofwegc-Markct, L 3