[No. LV.]
PLAN
of the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
(A NATIONAL PAPER.)
PMijktd at the Seat of the National Government,
CONTAINING,
I. EARLY and authentic Accounts of the PROCEEDINGS
ot CONGRESS—its LAWS, ACTS, and RESOLUTIONS,
communicated so as to form an HISTORY of the TRANSACTIONS
qJ the NATIONAL LEGISLATURE.
11. Imp a rtial SketchEs'of the Debates of Congress.
111. ESSAYS oti the great fubjc&s.of Government; also uppn
the national and local Rights of the american citizens, as
founded uponthe National or State Constitutions ; alfoupon every
other Suhjeft, which may appear suitable fomowfpaperdifcuifion.
IV. A SERIES of PARAGRAPHS-, calculated to catch the
lt living manners as they risx," and to point the public
attention to Obje&s that have an important reference tvdomeflic,
jocial and public happiness.
V. The Interests of the United States as conne&ed with their li
terary Institutions —religious and moral Obje&s—l mprovements in
Science, Arts, EDUCATION' and HUMANITY—their foreign
Treaties, Alliances, Connexions, &c.
VI. Every species of INTELLIGENCE, which may affe&the
commercial, agricultural, manufacturing, or political INTERESTS of
the AMERICAN NATION.
VII. ACfiAINofDOMESTIC OCCURRENCES.
VIII. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELLI
GENCE.
X. The STATE of the FUNDS—Courses of Exchange—*Prieoj
Current, See.
CONDITIONS.
I.
PubMed every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
11.
Theprice toSttbfcribers{cxclufive of postage) THREE DOLLARS
tr. annum.
111.
Thefirftfemi-annua! payment to-be made in three month} from the
time and future payments to be made every fix months.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will be rccefted in all the capital towns upon the Continent; also at No.
9, Maiden-Lane, near the Ofwego-Markct, New-York.
To the PUBLIC.
AT this important Crisis, the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with Events ot the greatest magnitude—to ftrenothen and
complete the UNION of the State*—to extend and protett their
COMMERCE, under equil Treaties yet to be explore
and arrange the NATIONAL FUNDS—to restore and eftablifli
the PUBLIC CR-EDIT —and ALL under the aufpicesof an untri
ed System of Government, will require the ENERGIES of the
Patriots and Sages of our Country—Hence the propriety of encreajtng
the Mediums of Knomlege and Information.
AMERICA, from this period, begins a new Era in her nation
al exifter.ee— u tha world is all before ker"—The
wisdom and foilv—the misery and prosperity of the EMPIRES*
STATES, and KINGDOMS, which have had their day upon
the great Theatre of Time, and are now no more, suggest the most
important Mementos—Thcfr, with the rapid series of Events, in
vhich our own Country has been so deeply interested, have
taught the enlightened Gitiaeo* «f the United States, that FREE
DOM and GOVERNMENT—LIBERTY and LAWS, arc inse
parable.
This Conviction lias led to the adoption of the New Conftituti
«n; for however, various the Sentiments, xefpe&ing the ME
RITS of this System, all good men are agreed in the nercflity
tfiatexifts, of an EFFICIENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
A paper, therefore, efhbKftied upon NATIONAL, INDE
PENDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRINCIPLES—which (hall
■aKeup the preinifcd Articles, tipon a competent plan,, it is
presumed, will be highly interfiling, and meet with public ap
probation patronage.
The Editor of this Publication is determined tohrave no avenue
of intormaton :—He fbheits the afliiiance of Persons
of leisure and abilities—which, united with his own afliduity, lie
flatters himfclf will render the Gazette of the United States not
unworthy general encouragement and is, with due refpeft,
the public's bumble fefvant, THE EDITOR.
POSTSCRIPT.
SIX Months have now clap fed since this paper was ufieveA
wtoexiflenct how far the fpint of the plan has been exhibited, and
* hired to, is not Jor the Editor to fry.—A generous and candid pub
lc * a s awarded its approbation, by a fubjeription which is said to be
m ort'txtenfive than ujual on pmlar occasion achnoicledjremeHt of
t e favor is therefore due-from the publisher.—The expence attending an
w erUking of this kind is always great; in the prcjent infance, it has
*ot teen counterbalanced by any of the cvjfomary receipts on account oj
a vertl f lents—the objefl being on extcnfwe circulation, the Editor con
cetvi ng th&t their insertion would have eoitrterafied that part of his plan,
■as never admitted any. This con fide ration if it loas necessary to be
Tu ovld point out the importance of pujiftualiiv on the part of the
jMjcribcrs—it appears to have been very gsnerdtly attended to, as th)
payments have been unufkally prompt.
It is netejfaty toobferre that the Trimmer of norres which hare honored
j * s nat f u .fJ tcr ent to defray the expence of the publication,
an to afford the Editor a competent support, a f\ppcfit\OH that the
n ejiiQuidbe colicfl ed.—Additional Jubfcriptions aj e therefore folio ted;
an when rt it covfidered. that the paper is new in its conflruflion ; con
a*n< intelligence of the mo ft inter efling nature ; abounds with more ort
pfoiitSy than any other periodical publication ; and, viewed as a rtrtf-
C f iaM cheaper than any nagazine t regifltr s (3c. it can not be doubted
but that it will receive a A adequate patronage.
In the prcjent number, the publication of the Journals of the Sen fit e
is commenced. As there is no gallery to the Senate Chamoer, all thai
e known of the proceedings of that Moss Honorable branch of Chi
f a j} 9 ** l Ligijltturejsfrm their Journals ; iptuis veivof the fkbjeS.U
isjuMofd they will be interring to the public. The price of the Laxus and
f 'e Journals of the tiuo Hovft* only, which will be gucu in the conrje
°t °xe year, amounts to more than the subscription.
r Jb* F-d'tor is determined to prpfcvte the ffUbHcttion. upon its ongi*
Principles : He hopes to make it wore intereftingy by the comr/uni*
or * of his ingenious ctrrefpgndcnti : He falicits the aid of every
J ru freedom and government: And such fpeculati&is as
ara Jnendly ajpeft to -thepeace, honor and prosperity of our rising
ion, will be received witkgratitud'. by the public r humble servant
v , JO M N FEK NO.
Wew-Yorr } OClobcr 14, 1789. *
WEDNESDAY, October 21, 1739.
THE TABLE T.—No. LV.
Ci IV.k.en human creatures once submit to govern*
wenty and. are nCed to live under th c rejlraint oj laws,
it ij incredible how many ujcjul cautious and felj-de
nials they.-mII learn toprattife by experience audimi
tation."
'T'HERE prevails a* opinion, even among
sensible politicians, that men are only
obedient to government from compulsion. Iffear
of punishment, fay they, is removed, there will
no longer be any obedience to the laws. Whe
ther this conference would follow to such a de
gree, that, upon the removal of penal laws, go
vernment would be diilolved, need not be brought
into discussion. Certain howeverit is, that many
ufeful, virtuous citizens pass through life, with
out ever feeling any emotions of such a fear.
Their obedience therefore is to be ascribed to other
causes. Perhaps habit constitutes the molt pow
erful one. Men are aecuftomed to perform du
ties without a repetition of the motives which firft
ilimulated them ; and they learn to sustain bur
dens and l'acrifices without opposition or com
plaint. Obedience resulting from such causes
has a preference over that, which is produced
by penalties. It colls the government less, and
is a demonstration that the people love and re
gard the laws.
In a well regulated community it will be found
that the orderly conduct of the citizens becomes
a matter of general consent. It is understood and
expected among the inhabitants that certain rules
of decorum with refpeCtto behaviour, andaftea
dy, peaceable observance of the laws fliould be
deemed requisite in obtaining weight and popula
rity of character. When a government has been
long eftablifhetl, such regulations will introduce
themselves as a matter of course, and will contri
bute to relieve tlieinagiftrate from many painful
aCts of duty. But inthe firft organization of go
vernment, the friends of good order and virtue
Ihould discover a peculiar degree of care and vi
gilance. Otberwife the people will early form
habits of difobedieuce to the laws, and disrespeCt
for the magistrates. lhavebeforedifcufled points
something like these, in the 13th and 14th num
bers of my speculations, which were principally
confined to the fubje<;t of fntuggling. In thole
eflays I dwelt largeiy upon the advantage of as
sociations, and pointed out how far they would
prove efficacious in giving the revenue laws a fa
vorable introduction.
I afn inclined to imagine that the people are
now so opposed to the fraudulent practice offmug
gling, that few individual's will dare risque the
attempt. Indeed I should feel a strong degree of
security that the revenue would be honestly col
lected, were not the ports of entry so numerous
and scattered as to increase the temptation to the
practice, by lert'ening the difficulty and hazard.
Those persons who live in the vicinity of the lit
tle ports will do well to refleCt that they hold
their advantages only in a state of probation. If
they discover an honest indignation against every
attempt to defraud the revenue, aud give equal
demonstrations of integrity with the inhabitants
of larger ports, it is not improbable they maybe
long indulged with the present accommodating
arrangements. These people would likewise do
well to refleCt that, it was with difficulty, Con
gress were prevailed on to consent to the eftab
liihment of such various ports of entry, as it was
predicted that the produCt of the revenue would
be endangered by the indulgence. If therefore
the anticipations of those members, who objected
to the plan, should prove true, it will no doubt
induce Congress to make alterations in the sys
tem less adapted to the general convenience of
the citizens. In whatever light the subjeCt is
viewed, there results the strongest arguments
in favor of watching carefully over the reve
nue, that it may prove so productive as not to
defeat the purpose of the present lenient regula
tions.
The inhabitants of populous towns are more
readily formed into habits of punctuality and ho
nor, than those in smaller places, where credit
and character are less eflential to prosperity. Ii
therefore happens, that the mean, diflionorablt
practice offmuggling finds more conntenance ir
small than large ports. But the inhabitants in
general, who derive no benefit from the illicit
gains, should contemplate well the inconvenience
to which they will be exposed, by acquiescing in
so pernicious and difgraceful a practice. It pro
motes the interests of a few unworthy individuals
at the expence of the honest, industrious part of
the community. For, if the government finds
thefources of the revenue, already in operation
inadequate to the public expenditure, new chan
nels of supply must be opened. The people, by
conniving at frauds in the collection of the iin-
on ! tt, ; J S.ii::rcin} ,'|
poft3, are giving themselves no relief, but are in
fatit encreaiing their own burdens.
Some men havefoch afalie taste in morals as to
feel no reniorl'e at pradtifing knavery against the
government. There is a J'ed-ucing kind of fallacy,
in this idea. The reason it is not generally explod
ed, and public knaves treated with the fame con
tempt and abhorrence as priv ate, proceeds from
the injury not being, l'o linking and apparent.
Men do iiQt to readily discern the inconvenience
as to complain of the injultice. All kinds of kna
very however are a public dilhonor and detri
ment ; and all good men ihould make a common
cause in preventing and pumlhing it in all lhapes
and degrees.
In the present state of our government, we
cannot depend on the penal force of the laws
alone. Virtuous citizens Ihould have an under
standing with each other, and make it a point of
honor and ambition to eftablilh a fair collection
of the revenue.
When ajult and honorable pratftice has been a
few months or years observed, men will annex
ideas of infamy to every aift of fraud committed
against the public treasury. The prosperity of fq.-
ciety depends more than is ufnally imagined on
the lioneft habits of the people. There is fuel).a
connexion between different virtues that when
one prevails it cherishes and promotes many oth
ers. Honelty will prove favorable to economy ;
and by paying punctually what is demanded,
there is less reason to expeift an accumulation of
demands. Virtuous and discerning men inuft
therefore rejoice to find a spirit of honor and punc
tuality e*ifting in all tranladtions relative to the
public treasury. Nothing will more effedluallv
contribute to this obje<sl, than good examples and
a general sentiment of disapprobation against e
very species offraudor collusion that is discovered.
LETTERS,
Written in Holland, in the Ycgr M,DCC,LXX,X f
By His Excellency
THE VICE-PRESIDENT of the United States.
LETTER 111.
Amsterdam, Oct. 6, 1780.
SIR,
YOUR third proprofition.is "to /hew that A
" merica, Jiotwithjiauding the war, daily increafa
" in Jlrertgth and farce."
It is an undoubted fatft, that America daily in
creases in strength and force ; but it may not be
so easy to prove this to the fatisfacflion of an Eu
ropean, who has never been across the .Atlantic ;
however, some things may be brought into con
sideration, which may convince if properly at
tended to.
1. It may be argued frotn experience of form
er wars, during all which, the population of that
country was so far from being diminished, or
even kept at a stand, that it was always found,
at the end of a war, that the numbers of people
hadincreafed, during the course of it, nearly in
the fame ratio as in time of peace. Even in the
last French war, which lasted from 1755 to 1763
(during which time the American colonies made
as great exertions, had in the field as great a num
ber of men, and put themfelvesto as great an ex
pence, in proportion to the numbers of people,
as the United States have done during this war)
it was found that the population had increased
nearly as fact as in times of peace.
2 If you make enquiry into the circuinflances
of the different parts of America, at this day, you
find all the States pufliing their settlements out
into the wilderness, upon the frontiers, cutting
down the woods, and subduing new lands, with
as much eagerness and rapidity as they used to
do in former times of war or peace. This spread
ing of the people, into the wilderness, is a de
ceive proof of theincreafing population.
3. The only certain way of determining the ra
tio of the increase of population, is by authentic
numerations ot the people, and regular official
returns. This has, I believe, never been done
generally in former wars, and has been generally
omitted in this. Yet some States have made these
returns : The Maflachufetts Bay, for example,
had a valuation about the year 1 773 or 1774, aii4
again the last year, 1779, they had another. In
this period of j years,'that State was found to have
increased, both in number of people and value of
property, more than it had ever grown before in
the fame period ol time. Now the Maflachufetts
Bay had a greater number of men employed in the
war, both by land and sea, in proportion to the
number of her inhabitants, than any other State
in the thirteen. She has had more men killed,
taken prisoners, and died of ficknels, than anv
other State ; vet her growth has been as rapid as
ever : From whence it may be fairlv argued, that
all the other States have grown in the fame or a
greater proportion.4- It " as 'been found by calculations, that Ame
rica has doubled her numbers, even by natural
generation alone, upon an average, about once
in eighteen years. This war has now laited near
fix yearrs; in the course of it, we commonly com
pute, in America, that wc have 1011, by sickness,
and the sword, and captivity, about five and thir
ty thousand men. But the number of people have
not increased less than fifty thousand fouls ; which
give at lealt an hundred thousand fighting men.
We have not less, probably, than seventy thou
sand fighting men, in America, more than we
had on the day that hostilities were firtl com
menced, on the iqth of April, ills. There are
near twenty thousand fighting men added to the
numbers in America every year.—ls this the cafe
with our enemy, Great Britain ? Which then can
maintain the war the longest ?
5. If America increases in numbers, she cer
tainly increases in strength. But her Itrengih in
creases in other refpecfts : The discipline of her
army increases ; the skill of her officers increases,
by sea and land ; her Ikill in military manufac
tures, such as those of fait petre, powder, fire
arms, cannon, increases ; her Ikill in manufac
tures of flax and wool, for the firft necessity, in
creases ; her manufactures of fait also increase;
and all tliefe are augmentations of strength and
force to maintain her independence. Further,
her commerce increases every year: the number
of veflels she has had this year, in the trade to
the Weft-Indies ; the number of veflels arrived
in Spain, France, Holland and Sweden ; fhewthat
her trade is greatly increased this year.
.But above all, her activity, Ikill, bravery, and
success in privateering, increase every year; the
prizes she has made from the Englifli this year,
will defray more than one half of the whole ex
pence of this year's war. I only submit to your
consideration a few hints, which will enable you
to fatisfy yourfelf, by reflection, how fact the
strength and force of America increase.
I have the honor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
FURTHER EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
Rtceived by the Sandwich Packet.
PARIS, August 26.
THIS day, being the Anniversary of St. Louis
and kept as the King's birth day ; the Na
tional Ailembly sent a deputation of 60 members,
headed by their President, to compliment his
Majesty in the following fpeecli :
" SIRE, The Monarch whose revered name
is borne by your Majesty, whose virtues are this
day celebrated by religion, was, like you, the
friend of his people.
" Like you, Sire, he was friendly to French
liberty, he protected it by laws which do honor
to our annals, but it was not in his power to be
its restorer.
" This glory, reserved foryour Majesty, gives
you an immortal right to the gratitude and ten
der veneration of the French.
" Accordingly the names of- two Kings shall
be forever united, who, in the diltance of ages,
are approximated by tliemoft signal acts of jultice
in favor of their people.
" Sire, the National Assembly has suspended
its operations for a moment, to fatisfy a duty
which is dear to it, or rather, it does not deviate
from the object of its million. To speak to its
King of the love and fidelity of the French, is a
business of truly national iitfereft, it is fulfilling
the most ardent of their wilhes."
His Majesty made the following answer to the
President:
" I receive with sensibility the testimonials of
the attachment of the National Afltmbly ; it may
always reckon on my confidence and my affecftion."
The King received the deputation with great
affability. I'lie Duke of Orleans was the only
Prince of the blood prefentiat the proceflion.—
His Highness, with all his family, were at Court
to pay their compliments to the King ; and the
t)utchefles of Orleans and Bourbon (the Duke of
Orleans filter) were the only women who entered
the King's cabinet.
M. Bailly, in taking his new oath before the
King, said, " Sire, I swear to your Majesty to re
fpedt, and cause to be relpecfted, your legislative
authority ; I swear to maintain and protest the
rights of the citizens, and do jultice to all."
LONDON, August 28.
Accordingto letters of a very recent date from
Madrid, his Catholic Majesty has taken the pre
caution of drawing a line of troops from St. Se
bastian to Gironna, which is across the kingdom
where it communicates with France. Inltrudtions
have also been sent to the dockyards, and every
seaport of the kingdom, to be very particular in
examining strangers, and obliging such as have
not real business to depart the kingdom.
It appears rather extraordinary that no detail
ed account is yet published of the engagement be
tween the Swedes and Ruffians on the 26th ult.
but every information confirms that it was a drawn
battle, no ship being taken (»r funk on either fide :
■about jo men were killed on board the Sweedifh
fleet.
The Swedes are preparing for tlie afliuilt of Fre
derickfliam both by sea and land. The attack
will probably be decisive one way or other. The
King is to command in person.
Frederickftiam is the capital of Ruffian Finland,
and a garrison of the utinort importance.
In the late running fig tit between the Swedes
and Ruffians, two frigates of the former power
absolutely lilenced two sixty-sours of the latter.
The Duke of Sudermania, with two other (hips,
were attacked closely by five of the largefl Ruf
fian men of war ; during which time the Duke
made fifteen different signals to the Vice Admiral
to attack such (hips as were pointed out before the
engagement, but the Admiral did not obey the
signals, nor fire a (ingle gun : If-he had, the Duke
avers, that he should moil afi'uredly have been
inafter of at least five Ruffian men of war.
September i.
A gentleman who thought proper to withdraw
from Paris, .where he has resided some years, re
ports, that if any foreign auxiliaries (hould at
tempt to enter France, it is the determined reso
lution of the armed citizens of Paris, Versailles,
Meudon, St. Cloud, Marolles, Senlis, St. Denis,
Pady, and the whole Hie of France, or Province
of Paris, to seize the King and Queen, and detain
them as hostages, till the foreigners shall return
by the way they came, and leave them at liberty
to fettle their own affairs as they shall think bed.
The noble Gallic contest for freedom becomes
an interesting objeifl to Britannia's sons—whose
generous sentiments are thus happily exprefled
by Gen. Conway.
" Arid fhou'd the Genius of tins happy isle,
On Gallia's sons at length propitious fraile ;
" While in each bread the patriot spirit glows,
" We'd hail as brothers, whom we've met as foes ;
" To the fame point their generous ardor tends :
" Thefriendsto FREEDOM mud be BRITAIN'S friends."
Letters received yellerday from Lyons confirm
the late accounts from sfvignon, the people there
have fliaken off the Papal Government, and put
themselves under that of France—they fay that
they are Frenchmen—that is, they defile to be
as free as they are, and they are certainly right—
no obsolete treaties, by which they have been fold
or alienated to the Holy See, should flop them—
Men should not be treated as beasts of burthen.
How must the licentioul'nefs of the popular
party in France, even as represented by the mi
nisterial prints, dwindle in coniparifonwitha de
liberate acft of an assembly in that country, when
under the yoke of kingly power and prieltly ar
tifice ! The circuinftance alluded to is taken from
the Hiftoire EclefiaJUque des Eg/ifes Reformat au
Royaume, in the year 1562 ; when the following
sentence was pronounced by the Parliament of
Thoulou/e upon Teronde, a Protestant Advocate,
though he was not found guilty !
" M. TERONDE,
" The Court does not find you are culpable in the
leaf}. However, being very well informed of
your inward thoughts, and that you would have
been very well pleafe'd if your reprobate fe<sl had
gained the viAory, they have condemned you to
be beheaded, and have confifcated your eltate
withoat any exception."
, SEPTEMBER J.
COPY of the DECLARATION o/RIGHTS, at fi
nally decreed by the NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
of FRANCE.
THURSDAY, August 27.
THE Representatives of the French people,
constituted in National Aflembly, considering that
ignorance, forgetfulnefs, or contempt of the
rights of man are the folecaufes of public misfor
tunes, and the corruption of Governments, have
tefolved to set forth inafolemn Declaration, the
natural, inalienable, and sacred Rights of Man;
to the end that this Declaration, being conftant
lyfenttoalltlie Members of the Social Body, may
perpetually remind them of their Rights and
Duties ; that the Acfls of the Legislative and Exe
cutive Power, being every inflant liable to be
compared with the object of every political infli
tution, may be more refpecfted by them ; and
that the claims of the Citizens founded hencefor
ward 011 simple and inconteflible principles, mav
uniformly turn to the maintenance of the Con
stitution, and to the liappinefsof all.
In consequence, the National Aflembly acknow
ledge and declare, in prefenceof, and under the
auspices of the Supreme Legislator, the follow
ing Rights of Man and Citizen. 4
Art. 1. All men are born, and remain free,
and equal in rights; social diltiniftions can only
be founded 011 common utility.
Art. 2. The end of every political association
is the prefervationof the natural and imprescrip
tible Rights of Man ; these rights are liberty,
property, security, and refinance to opprefiion.
Art. 3. The principle of all foveriegnty resides
efl'entially in the Nation ; no body of men, 110
individuals can exercise any authority but what
emanates expressly from it.
Art 4. Liberty consists in doing whatever does
not injure another; accordingly, the exercise of
the natural rights of each man, has no other
bounds but those which secure to other members
offociety the enjoyment of the fame right s ; these
can be determined only by the law.
Art. 5- The law fliould only prohibit action'
injurious to society. Nothing can be prevented
but what is prohibited by law ; nor can any ffi
be conltrained to do what it does not ordain
Art. 6. The law is the exprelfion of the gene
ral will ; all the citizens have the right
curring personally, or by their Representatives
in its formation ; it ought to be the lame for all'
whether it protects or whether it punishes. Alt
the citizens being equal in its eye, are equally
admissible to all places, employments and dig.
liities, according to their capacity ; and without
any other distinction, than that of their virtues
and their talents.
Art. 7. No man can be accused, apprehended
or detained, but in cases determined by the lav.'
and according to the forms which it has preferr
ed. They who solicit, expedite, execute, or
cause to be executed, any arbitrary orders, should
be punished ; but every citizen, fuinmoned orap.
preliended, by virtue of the law, lhouldinftamly
obey, and he becomes culpable by reftftance.
Art. 8. The law should eftablifli none bnc
puniflimentsftric f tly and evidently neceflary; and
110 man can be punished but by virtue of a law es
tablished and promulgated prior to the offence
and legally applied.
Art. 9. Everyman being presumed innocent
until he shall liave been pronounced guilty, ific
be deemed indifpeniible to apprehend him, eveiy
species of rigour not absolutely neceflary for le
curing his person, fliould be severely prohibited
by law.
Art. 10. No man can be disturbed in his opini
ons, even religious; provided their manifeftation
do not trouble the public orJ;r ejlablifhedby lav.
Art. 11. The free communication of thoughts
and opinions is one of the most precious rights of
man. Every citizen, therefore may freely speak,
write andprint, under condition of being respon
sible for the abuse of that liberty in cases provid
ed for by law.
Art. 12. The security of the rights of the man
and citizen renders a public force neceflary; that
force then is instituted for the good of all, and
not for the particular advantage ef tliofe to whom
it is confided.
Art. 13. For the maintenance of this public
force, and the other expencesof Administration,
a common contribution is indifpeniible; this
fliould be apportioned among all the citizens, in
proportion to their abilities.
Art. 14. Each citizen has the right, by him
felf, or his Representatives, to determine thene
ceflity of the noble contribution, freely to con
sent to it, to attend to its employment, and to
fix the quota, the mode of impolition, the col
letftion and duration of the fame.
Art. ij. Society has a right to demand an ac
count from every public agent of his administra
tion.
Art. 16. Every society in which the guaranty
of their rights is notfecured, nor the reparation
of powers determined, is without a constitution.
Tliefe are the whole of the articles.
The city of Paris is fifteen miles in circumfer
ence, the ftreetsare narrow, the houses high and
every floor is> inhabited by a different family; so
that in proportion to its extent, it is more popu
lous than London.
A correspondent has favoured us with the pe
rusal of a letter which he had received from 3
friend, one of the National Aflembly, at Pu' s >
the son of the unfortunate General Lally,
which fays,—" I cannot forget the Englilh bloo
that rolls in my veins, I cannot forget your glo
rious constitution. To this I adverted, when, on
the 2d of the month, I arose, and among
things maintained, that in the earlier periodsol
the French Monarchy, the most absolute 01®
Princes were 110 more than the firft citizens, « r
Members of the Republic, and that the pre e ®
Government of Great Britain is the image oti t
Government of Charlemagne. ,
" lf~it would ever tend to the true glory aa
prosperity of any nation, to be fubjec!ted to 1
absolute power of an individual, Iwouldnot
upon this important occasion ; but it is palp® '
that in such Governments the intereftof thei
arch—that is to fay, his pleasures, his avarice
his tinsel glory—is promoted by the inner)
oppreflion of his fubjecTts. It is, indeed, P " e]1 _
enough to maintain, that the well-beingo
ty-four million of fouls ought to be equa
trusted to the direiftion of an individual, 111 ,
sequence of his being born of a certain ina
woman. . Absolute power in excellent han
render a people happy ; but such han
rare, and there is so little probability 0 .
series of such hands, at the head of j ie j r jj
tliat the people are authorised to lecu' e
berties and property by the bulwark of
free constitution, and it is in this that 11 t>
and prosperity of a nation properly con 1 •
A more true definition of a free of
was never better given in so final la £", ell( j a jl.
words. And this is Comte Lally de to
Revolutions in States are the natuia
quences of unpopular and oppreln ve t 8
and in those cases, the troops always c 'the fide of juft;ce :—it was so in the year 1688 111
England—it is so ill the year 1 789 ia France.
The late engagement in the North Sea, laftec
from 2 o'clock P. M. until night.
The principal loss on board the Ruffian fleet
was Brigadier Mulofchky who was killed. On
board his ship IJ other persons loft their lives and
62 were wounded from three cannon bursting ;
his ship was 011 fire 110 less than four times during
the action.
In cafe an Imperial flandard should be raised,
which would of course ensure protection to all
who repair to it—the Conite d'Artois, the Con
des, and all the great personages who are now in
aftateof proscription, would immediately hasten
thither, and the Emperor would find hinilelffur
rounded with all the blood royal, and many of
the firfl characters in France.
As we cannot suppose that the French Nobility
are serious in yielding up their honors, or that
the Clergy are in earnest in giving up their reve
nues, but firmly believing that they go with the
current they cannot Item, and encourage the pre
sent enthusiasm for liberty in order to hurry it on
to deftruiftion, we have no doubt but that the
areater part of the Nobility and Clergy, who now
compose the National Aflembly, would seek the
protecting wings of the Imperial Eagle, leaving
Messieurs le Tiers Etat to deliberate 011 refined
systems of Government which they cannot com
prehend, and M. le Conite de la Fayette to try
what great feats can be performed by the Militia
of Paris and Versailles.
M. Neckar's illness has terminated in a Tertian
fever, and he is obliged to keep his room. Helias
already had four attacks, and his physicians ex
pert three more. One of them observed the other
day to him, that he only wanted a little repose and
he would soon be well. The Minister looking at
him ftedfaftly replied,—" You 111 uft find some
other remedy for the disease, or I never fliall be
cured."
The King of France has iffiied an ordinance,
" declaring an amnesty in favor of all soldiers,
officers, hullars, and dragoons who have deserted
their standards without permiflion since the ift of
June. He allows them the liberty of rejoining
their corps, and afl'ures them of an oblivion of all
that is past, and their re establishment in the rank
they held at the time of deferring."
The amnesty extends to the 1 ft of October next.
Three of the Swiss Cantons have declared those
of their troops traitors, who del«rted their colours
under Marshall Broglio. Some of them found
their way back into Switzerland, but had been
refufed to be received into any of the Canton
ments.
The reform in the Count d'Artois' lioufhold is
compleated. It is intended even to suppress his
Council. The young Princes, his cliilden are
expecfted at Paris every day. Most people seem
no wish his Highness likewise to return, for the
absence of so many of the blood royal as well as
the principal nobility, gives very feiious cause of
alarm.
It has been said that the apprelienfion of dan
ger to the person of Louis XVI. alone prevents
the Count d'Artois from cjmmencing hostilities.
SVe repeat it, that the Count and his party, for
the present, endavovsr to accompliih their purpose
by indirect methods. The King, by lulling the
Patriots into a falfe security, may more effectually
promote the views of their enemies.
The duties laid 011 the importation of several
kinds of goods into the ports of America, are con
siderably less than into those of the ports of Europe
—Thus we find, that Madeira wine is to be char
ged 2J cents pr. gallon, and as each cent is the
hundredth part of a dollar (equal to a halfpen
ny, and two twenty fifthseach) the duty is there
fore but 141. ss. 6d. pr. toil, though in Ireland it
is 351. and still more in' England. Other wines
are to pay but 1 J cents, or at 81. 10s. 3d. a ton,
which is considerably lower than port, claret, and
other wines pay in those countries. Yarn is to
be charged 90 cents forahniulred weight, which
is not a halfpenny a pound. The elegantly fi
"nillied fort of shoes but sd. 2 Jths a pair, and others
?d. and a small fraction. Earthen ware, pottery,
&c. but 10 pr. cent, yet in the treaty between
Prance and England (asalfo with respect to simi
lar kinds of goods brought over to .'reland from
thefifter country in crates) the rate is 25. Teas,
sugars, spirits, &c. are to pay but a trivial charge
in comparison of the duties as rated for them in
those countries, with a preference, however,given
to those goods imported in their own veflels.—
Some materials of manufacture are totally exempt
ed. A trade therefore beyond the Atlantic will
be a very delirable circuin fiance, though rather in
ninuufacturedgoods than the unwrought materials
of industry.
A very curious experiment lias been lately tried,
that of proving how far ail entire copper vellel
would answer the purpose of failing. Mr. W il
liams,a joint proprietor of the great copper mines,
was the projector, and a very numerous party at
tended the experiment—Lord Mount Edgecombe,
Sir Borlafe Warren, &c. It was launched at Dept
ford, and promiles to answer every purpose for
which it was defifrned.
O
THE ORIGIN OF LAWS.—AN extract.
THRICE happy age, the youthful Poet cries,
Ere laws arose, ere tyrants bade them rife ;
When all were blest to share a common store,
And none were proud of wealth, for none were poor ;
No wars, no tumults vext each ft;ll domain,
No third of empire, no desire of gain ;
No proud great man. rioi one who would be great,
Drove modest Merit from its proper state ;
Nor intodiftant climes would Avarice roam,
To fetch delights for Luxury at home :
Bound by no tyes but thole by nature made,
Virtue was law, and gifts prevented trade.
Millakcn youth ! each nation firft was rude,
Each man a chearlefs fon.of solitude,
To whom no joys of social life were known,
Nor feit a care that was not all his own ;
Or in some languid clime his abje£l foul
Bow'd,to a little tyrant's flern controul ;
A (lave, with slaves his monarch's throne he rais'd ;
And in rude long his ruder idol prais'd ;
The meaner cares of life were he knew,
Bounded his pleasures, and his willies few ;
But.when by flow degrees the Arts arose,
Taught by some conquering friends, who came as foes ;
When Commerce, rising from the bed of cafe,
Ran round the land and pointed to the seas ;
When Emulation, born with jealous eye,
And Avarice, lent their spurs to Indullry;
Then one by one the were made,
Those to controul, and these to succour trade;
To curb the infoience of rude, command,
To snatch the victim from the Usurer's hand,
Toav>te the bold, to yield the wrong'd redress,
And feed the poor with Luxury's excess.
Like some vast flood, unbounded, fierce, and ftrortg;
His nature leads ungovern'd man along;
Like mighty bulwarks made to ftemthat tide,
The laws are form'd, and plac'd on every fide ;
When e'er it breaks the bounds by these decreed,
New statutes rife, and stronger laws succeed ;
More and more gentle grows the dying stream,
More and more lirong the rising bulwarks seem ;
Till, like a miner working sure and flow,
Luxury creeps on, and ruins all below ;
The basis finks, the ample piles decay,
The (lately fabric shakes and tails away;
Primaeval Want and Ignorance come on,
But Freedom, sovereign boon of life, is gone.
INTELLIGENCE BY THE LAST MAIL.
PROVIDENCE, October 10.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman lately returned
from the Mufkingum, to his friend in this town, da
ted Morris County,(State of New-York,) 061. r.
Mr. Mattis, a surveyor, with his party, were
on the 9th of Aug. attacked by the Indians. His
party consisted of a corporal, fix soldiers, and five
New-Englandmen, who were employed in iur
veying near the Great Kenhawa, about 100 miles
down the river from Marietta. Two of the party
rising earlier than the others, went to look after
theirpack-horfes—the remainder, eleven in num
ber, after having risen, were fitting on their
blankets, when they received an unexpected fire
from a party of Indians, not knowing there were
any near them. Seven were fliot dead on the spot
—the remaining three, with Mr. Mattis, and the
two who were looking for their liorfcs, made their
escape. The unfortunate persons killed were
fix soldiers, and a New-nnglandman by the name
of Patchen, from near I3ofton. Mr. Mattis and
the others made their way down the river, where
Col. Meigs, with a party, were also surveying.
They found them alarmed, as one of the chain
bearers had discovered two dogs ahead of them
in the woods—they immediately discharged their
guns, and reloaded, which proved a lucky cir
cumstance, as the Indians, then lying in ambush
for them to come on, supposing themselves dis
covered, went off, firft drawing with wet powder,
on the bark of a tree, the figure of an Indian tom
ahawking a man. Col. Meigs, and his party, im
mediately quitted their employ, and returned fafe
to Marietta. A party of Shawanefe Indians af
terwards tookaNew-Englandman, (Mr.Gardner)
prisoner at Wolf Creek; he was employed in
cutting timber for a mill now building at that
place, eight miles from Marietta, but being an
excellent woodsman, he had the good fortune to
riiake his escape, after travelling 60 or 70 miles
with them.
" These events have damped the inhabitants a
little—but I am in hopes 110 further mifchief will
enl'ue from the savages. A description of that fine
country, and the g'-eut advantages arising from
settlements there, it is needless for me to give.—
1 he lands exceeded my expectation.
BOSTON, October 16.
At a time when our ILI.USTRIOUS PRESI
DENT intends a visit to this metropolis, a cor
respondent would urge the propriety of a general
illumination, as a testimonial of the joy that will
undoubtedly be felt upon the occasion, and would
propose a public fubfeription for the purpose of
supplying those persons with candles, whose cir
cumstances will not permit of such an expence, as
undoubtedly their feelings, upon this occasion
will be equal to any of the firft citizens of this
Commonwealth.
SHIP NEWS.
Extrattofa l-tterfrom Ptltrfburgh (Ruffm) dated July 30.
" Lail week a Swedilh frigate, as ftie lay at anchor, was taken
by a small cutter of 18 guns, the cutteir making a warp fact to her
ring bolt and hauling along fide. Capt. Paul Jones, who was
Admiral of the fleet, was taken upori suspicion of a contrail with
the Swedifli fleet and laysinjai'l to be tried for his life. Capt.
Peter Landar, of Salem, arrived the daybefofe we did."
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 21.
That The President of the United States is
justly entitled to the love and respect of his fellow
citizens, 110 person has the effrontery explicitly to
deny—because it would be contradicted by the
feelings of every friend to the late glorious revo<*
lution : But in the view of certain characters'
(thank Heaven their number is very small) it is
a lrjoft unpardonable fin to express those fenti
mentsof attachment and veneration, so publicly,
as that the world may know, America is wife
enough to discover who are her best friends, or
has gratitude enough to ackr:owtedge her obliga
tions to them.
That the lowest degradation of the human cha
racter may take place, independent of Tit les, is
evident in the lately cited instance of the King of
Ceylon —who, without that appendage to his po
litical llation, receives the adulations of his Cour
tiers in aftile of the lowest and tnoft contemptible
idolatry : On the other hand, in the Roman Re
public the rnoft pompous titles were conferred on
their Magistrates, without producing the least
humiliation of spirit among the people. From
whence it appears that neither Freedom or Slavery
are connected with Titles, any further thdn their
adoption has a favorable, or inauspicious aspect
upon the government.
Patriotism is the love of our country, its peace, its prosperity,
and gJorv : It watches with eagle eye, the rights of the people :
It is equally concerned for thedignity of thelaws: It is peacea
ble, quiet, and patient—not meanly suspicious, nor weakly cre
dulous : It gives its support to the ministers of justice, and the ad
miniftj ators of the government : It seeks for redress of grievances
in the line of the constitution: It abhors treason, traitors, and
anarchy; and Teje&s with abhorrence the machinations of crafty,
reftiefs and unprincipled politicians ; men whofeobjeft is self,
to the facrificingthe public interest, fafety,and honor. The voice
of true patriots is calmness, and conciliation ; they delight in
works of charity aod peace—their plan of conduct is always com
patible with the laws of justice, truth, and decency.—They may
fuffer for righteousness fake, tor a season; but time shall eventu-r
ally unfold their real characters, set their merits in a just point o£
light; and the people who have been saved by their magnanimity,
fliall embalm their memory in the bosom of their grateful remem
brance.
The people of America when under a royal government were
reviled by their talk masters as being peculiarly addi&ed to the
practice of evading payment of the kings revenue—tho this was
doubtless a slander as particularly pointed at Americans, tor the
people of Britain pursue a f)Jlcmof smuggling evzn under the guns
of their guardacoaflas.—Yet, as it is of so great importance that the
fair trader should not be facrificed ; and that the revenue should
not be diminished ; and there are some pcrlons of so perverse a
difpontion as to oppose thelaws for opposition fake ; it is of im
portance that every proper step should be taken to prevent the per
nicious pra£fcice.—The aflociation of the merchants in Philadel
phia is justly considered as a salutary, and patriotic measure; it
rcfletts tlif highest honor on their public spirit ; and is worthy of
imitation by all the great towns and cities on the continent.
There was once a time when a glorious spirit of emulation per
vaded the States in the defence of our country ! Shall we be less
virtuous, less emulative to secure the bleflingsof peace and of good
government, the precious rewards of oui labors, toils and dangers ?
This security mull arifc from furnifhinjr the means to support
the Constitution. The impost system is so universally preferred to
all other modesof taxation, that it may be emphatically ftiled the
people's own plan; and to violate the revenue laws, will be
to insult the majesty of the people.
It is an old obfervation—Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof
The mind that is continually brooding o'er ills in future, realize*
the msfery it anticipates, in its present feeling, and lays up a stock.
on interest ; but the influences of a bright hope of happiness in
refervc, brightens present affliction, and braces up the mind for
future contingencies. It would be well for the gloomy croaker?
igainftthenew government, and its adminiftratiorj, to refrefh
!heir memories by recurring to their past predictions —As every
rvent that hastranfpired,ferves to shew how incompetent they have
been, end ftillare to penetrate into futurity;
If the friends of the new Constitution, had discovered on all
occasions, that bitter, and uncharitable spirit; that insolent, and
haughty deportment ; that vindittive, and revengeful temper,
which have marked the conduct and designated the publications
of the enemies to the system, America would have just caufc to
tremble. Men, who upon all occasions brand those who differ
from them with the moll opprobrious epithets ; impute the vilefl
motives* to characters, honored by the public confidence; and
(lick at nothing to excite clamours, jealousies and confufion j
would, if cloathed with power, prove the most execrable tyrants
that ever blasted the happiness of mankind.
THE PRESIDENT. -
Ext rati of a letter from a Gentleman in Boflon, to
the Editor, dated OClobcr 16.
" We have a rumour, that Gen. Washington,
our beloved President, intends a visit to this me
tropolis : And we all hope it is true. Our old
men wilh, ere they bow tlicir grey hairs to the
grave, to fee the man who has bid their setting
lun go down in peace. Those less aged, wjfli
to teftify their gratitude to the political saviour
of their country, and to redouble those atten
tions to the Father, which they once paid to his
adopted son*—and our children wifti, or their
parents for them, to be able to lisp the name of
the hero, who hasdeftroyed, under Heaven, the
manacles prepared for them.—The gratulating
fongof every Being in this metropolis lhall bid
him welcome—thrice welcome !"
* The Marquis de la Fay ette. ,
Extrafl of a letter J row. Stratford, Oflober 19.
" The President of the United States arrived here on the
17th inft. The independent company of matroffes, under the
command of Lieutenant Wet more, was paraded, and fired a
federal salute on the occasion. They afterwards escorted the Pre
sident on his journey as far as the ferry, who very politely noticed
theirs and the citizens refpe&ful attentions.
" The Vice President, who arrived here on the 15th, was
also received with military honors."
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK. ~
Monday Sloop Union, Watson, Philadephia.
Three Friends, Sable, Turks-Island.
Brig Nancy, Bernard, Cape-Francois.
Sloop Dolphin, Burnett. Martinico. 7A few THOUGHTS concefriin'g'e proper MONEY of ACCOUNT.
BY A GENTLEMAN OF VIRGINIA.
ALrHO, for various reasons, what are called ilie precious
Snetals lie more proper than any other commodity to be the ftand
;:rd, by>referenfce to which the value of other things maybe af
certainen. yet there seems to be forrie impropriety even in this ;
becaule neither gold nor silver carries the fame unchanging value
frl; all times, 2nd that which is to be applied as the measure of other
things ought itfel! to be fixed : It is still more improper that gold
artel lilver should both be admitted rs a conm> rt standard ; because
they arc not only liable to fWluate, but to fluctuate in relation to
each other; yet. svhen thus admitted, tho one us thetn Ihould fink
in value more thai) the other, and even tho one of them ftiOulrf
have funk* while the other may have rifei) 111 value, they are e
qually legal, however inconsistent, measure!.
That a debt, due now, be paid at an equal value, at whatever
distant time the payment be made, it lee**is necclfarv to adopt a
money ol account pUfely imaginary; fdr every thing, which is
real, is exposed to the danger of fluctuation: This might (rclpett
ing the various denominations, or the money-unit and its parts) be
framed on many different models. One, as eligible perhaps as
any Qther, would be to count in units, dimes, cents, and rftills, so
that each inferioi deoomination should be, to that next above it)"
:i? one to tan, It may be a matter ol no great what dc-
va ' ue we may think proper to mark by our money-unit ;
this is in itfelf arbitrary, bnt whert orfci bv arbitrary appointmetft
Jhat comes to be fixed, the rule of proportion obtains and from
that fixed point gives 0 scale for every superior or inferior value;
;i|(t as the thermometer is capable of graduations infinitfly diver
fified asto any particular degree of heat or cc/ld ; but wTiatcvfr df
gtce you may chufefor designating any certain rc
■'l ' must be had to that throughout the whoTe scale. SOppbfe
that at the prefenttime 4dwt. ol gold and 30c.. of silver fliould be
of equal value, and that such value were expressed by one unit
*considered merely as a measure, and not as equivalent 'tothe lhin'»
meafurcd. You would thus have a Heady immutable standard';
and a not confiding of a certain quantity of gold, but of a
certain vatur, measured in this imaginary money, and payable in
gold or filver,w ould at every period of time retain the fame value,
ivhatevermay be the intermediate fluctuations of gold, or silver, 01'
other commodities.—Suppufe for instance, a debt of j5 units,
S dimes, 7 cents, and 5 mills, or 15,87,5 units ; this according to'
the above hypothtjis would be now equal to 307.. 3dwt. 12 grs. of
gold, and to 470z. iidwt. 1» grs. of lilver, and ifprefent pay
ment be made Ibould bedifcharged in that ratio ; But let silver
fall in value 5 per cent, and <*old encreafe in like proportion, then
the fame debt would be jultly discharged by the payment of about
30Z. :mdn|grs.of gold,or 50 or. 2 dwt. lg grs. (nearly) of fil
vfr. This would be toconGdergold and silver (accordiri» to tHCir
real natures) as commodities, whose vibrating valuesare climated,
atvarious periods, by a fixed ftaridard. According to this idea
■we ought to forbear the co'n'nefting our imaginary unit with a
certain quantity of gold or silver, by any perpetual fie ; they may,
indeed, meet at particular times; but this is only an accidental
Concurrence, and will not juftify the assumption of them as equi
valent exprelfiom, or common measures. And if, in tHe pro
gress of human affairs, differences prevail in the value d( things
which once may have]been equal,or greater or lefTtr differences than
fpTmerly obtained, it is surely beyond the reach of pblitical power
it> alter the nature-os things ;no govcrnnicnt can by it's merfc fiat
lhake that valuable among men which men do not value, or give
to any thing a greater value than from genertl consent it bears.
Any piece of gold or silver is received in it's currency, not as a
certain value is fbmped on it by authdrity, but as it is known to
Contain a certain quantity of either metal ; and wlieri goVerilnifnt
unncceirarilv afligns to if a certain value,it but conforms (or ftiould
conform) to the anticedent opinion and appreciation of mankind.
The true use of coin seems to be nothing more tban to give a pub
lic aflurance of the finenefs of the rriefal, atid the quantity of it
contained in the piece at the time of doming. And if by fraud or
accident (no matter which) that quantity be impaired, the value of
the piece is lefiened, and it ought to be a tender for only it's pie-
J'ent quantity, according to the market value of gold or silver at
the time of the tender.
In this arrangement of a money account I fjave made no altera
tion in that lately chosen by Congress, except in the money-unit,
•which I fancied it better to call units than dollars, left as the latter
is the nameof a known coin, the use of that name Ibould lead us
to attach to it the idea of acertain piece of money; whichthepre
3*nt plan would cautiously avoid.
On a fuperficial view, it might feein to be a valid objection to
such a plan, that in cases of dispute about the just amount of the
payment to be made,thedebtor is deprived of the means of know
ing, with certainty, what quantity of gold or silver he ought to
tender, ai d the creditor what he ought to receive ; both which e
vils would be avoided by measuring the debt in counter*, which
Ibould also be equivalent to tV.and confequently,beingtransfered to the
creditor,would prcctfely difchaige it. We ought,however, to con
sider, that however certain a debt may be by the original contract
disputes may afterwards arise concerning the balance, either thro'
various reckonings of money paid, or various appreciations of
commodities received by the creditor, where no valuation has been
made of them between the parties, or there is a difference of be
lief as tothe valuation made; and that those, or fomc of those
things must be the mod usual source of disputation : In which
cases, aud in all thole where disputes happen about the value of
commodities fold, or of fei'vices performed, where they make the
basis of the Jemy/d, not of the difount, and have not been by the
contrast fixed in their value, it must unavoidably happen, thatthe
fame objc&ion (if it beonc) will recur. And every difputt be
tween debtoi and creditor, from whatever source it arise, supposes
a degree of uncertainty in the quantum of the debt. On all those
bpcafi'ons the debtor must take cafe to tertddr a payrrient at least
adequate, and the creditor not a fender vvhch ht is not fui'C
is inadequate : In that fine of conduct onfv there is fafety* if, con
fideringthe various judgments of men, absolute certainty can in
those cases be expelled— But if this uncertainty must be confidcr
*d as ar, evil, it is an evil not peculiar to this ptah ; for every o
therfiems to be exposed to it.
In laying piiblic taxes of any fort, defined by fnch a measure as
is here proposed, it might be convenient to define alio, by the
fame flandard, the value of gpld arid silver to be received by the
colleftor'r, that their emoluments may be neither more nor less
than were.mtended for them, and thfe burdens of the people nei
ther heavier nor lighter than the public needs require. This might
be annually adjusted at the time of imposing the lax ; in which
qdjufttnentv the acr.idrntal variations of the precious metals (if
thei c should be any)'might be attended to, and so all those incon
veniences, which would refuft frofh a permanent fixing of tliiir
values, be avoided.
(The remainder on Saturday.)
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE arid FINANCES.
(Cohcludcdfrom ou*' IdJi.J
I AM of opinion 'tis quite time to quit thischildifli minia
ture of councils, and adopt fonaethirig up to the full life, and pro
pose foirie fyltem to our people that wffl. when 6Secuted, be
cffe&ivr and fufßcient for its purpose. I imagine fiich a proposal i
•would find our people full enough of sense to discuss it, candour
to rpprove of it, and zeal to promote if.
Eut if you will continue to believe that my high scale of tax
will ftupify our people with tertor on firft fight of the dreadful,
dreary object, I will seriously afc you if you are acquainted wfth
one individual, think would be likely to nang-himfelf,
or run di ft rafted, or give up the Ainei ican union or independence,
on being told, that he nib ft fo'r the reft of his life pay a dollar a
gallon tax on diftill'd spirits and wine, a duty equal to the firft
cost on silks, cambricks, lawns, muftin, lace&, jewellery,., and so
on thro' all the grades of the tax I propose. Or how docs the
dreadful Ipe&re.affcft vour own eonftitution," does it make your
own blood run cold and ftiffen in your veins. As you are mostly
men of falhion and fortune, I conceive you will be as deeply in
tcrefted in the tax as the most of your conftituenis, and you may
pretty well judge of their feelings by your own. I do not ap
prehend that your anxiety is excited at all for youi felvcs, but tor
vour people ; but can't you suppose that your constituents have
lenfe todifcern the neceflity and utility of a public measure, judge
ment and patriotism to approve it, and firmutfsto bear the bur din
ot it, as well as you. Some obje&s, when feeri through a mist, or
at a distance, appear frightful and cloathcd with terrors, which all
vanilh on a nearer view, and more close iiifpection. Some dis
agreeable tilings, when they come home to our filings, are found
.to have lefspain thandiftant expectation painted out. Lei us fup
pofc and realize to ourselVes then, that my feale of tax was adopt
ed and become habitual to the people, eah you imagine that the
country would be thereby rendered a whit the worse, or more in
convenient to live in, than if the tax was not paid ? or if you can't
come quite up to this, do yOu conceive the inconveniencc of the
• tax paid inthis way, by any comparison so heavy and burdensome,
as the present tax on polls and estates, or any other that has ever
been praftifed or proposed of equal product, would be to the peo
ple at large.
I do not know how far our people at large are imprefltd with
a sense of the importance of our union ; it is, in my opinion, an
object of the utmost weight, I conceive that the very exigence of
our refpeftability abroad ; theintereft which we are to derive from
our connexions with foreign nations, and our security against
foreign anel domestic infuits ancf-invafions, all depend on it, and
even our independence itfelf cannot be supported without it, and
as I know well that the attachment of our people to their indepen
dence is almost universal, f should fappofe tfat our union, which
is so closely and inseparably conne&ed with it, would likcwife be
an equal object of their attachment and ccmcern; if this is the cafe,
I cannot be pfcrfuaded that oiir people will revolt against any lea
fonable and neceflary means of both the one and the
other, and as the tax I propble appears to me the only poHible and
pra&icable means, any how within our power, which cah be*ade
•quate to this great purpose, I cannot fay that I shudder to pro
pose such a tax ; but I think We may fafelv presume on the good
ienfe of our people, their patience apd discernment of their in
terests, enough to expect their concurrence in the meafurt, and
even chearfulnefs and zeal in firpporting it.
But if\his cannot be obtained, I can add no more, I have no
conception that the* Americans either are or ought to be governed
against their consent or that the collection of taxes, of any kind,
or in any mode, can be made with fuecefi, whilst an opinion be
comes general among the people, that the tax!es are unnecessary,
unjust, or improperly applied.
I thlrilc it would not be very difficult to make out the defail of
particulars neceflary to form the plan or system, both of the tax
and iiscolleftion, on the principles herein urged ; but the whole
is humbly (übinitted to the confideratioh of the public, who, I
hope, are enough imprefled with the importance of thefubjeft,
and the nedeflity of adopting some deciflons relating to it, with
out delay, to induce eVery ot)t tb give it that attention that its
nature and weight requires, and which our present critical circum
stances make indispensable to oui political salvation.
I do not set myielf up t<s propose fyfte'ms of political union, ,and
plani of revenue, becaufV I think myfelf the fitteft and most capa
ble man to do it j but bece'ufe I am convinced that every system of
this fort mull be the work of one mind, carefully and deeply com
prehending the whole fubjeft, and fitting Ml the parts tocach other,
so that every part may fori* a coincidence with the reft. It is
Icarcely pomble for twenty or thirty men of the best abilities eol
leftcd in a roOm together, to do this ; either of them might do it
alone, but all of them together cannot. The twenty together may
examine the system or plan, when made and proposed, and note
: its falilts, bbt eveh then they cannot mend them, without danger
|of destroying its uniformity, the)- must do as you do with your
•cloathes which don't lit, fend for the taylorwho made them, point
lout the faults, and dirett him to take them home, and make the
j alterations.
Any man of a cTear head mrfy comprehend his own thoughts,
but cannot so well enter into tHose of another. Ydu might as well
| set twenty watchmakers to make a watch, and afllgn to each his
; wheel; tho' each wheel (hould be exquisitely finiftied, it would be
j next to a miracfe if the teeth and diameters fitted each other, so
afe to move witli proper uniformity together; if this gi'dat work
is done, fomfe body must do it, some body must begin. A mo
derate genius may hit on, and propose a thought which a richer
mind rfiay improve to the greatest advantage. If I can attain this
honor, I iKall have my reward, and please myfelf with the hope,
tKat Tmay be, in some degree ufefirfto the country I love, which
gave me birth, and in which-1 extfeft to leave my posterity.
Philadelphia, 24M March, 1783.
F I N I S.
PROCEED INGS 0 F CONGRESS.
ABSTRACT o/JOfJRNAL of the first session cj the SENATE
*J the UNITED STATES.
TUESDAY, April 7, 1789.
The Senate proceeded 10 elect a Door-keeper, and James Ma
tners was chosen.
Ordered, That Mr. Ellfworth, Mr. Paterfon, Mr. MaclSy, Mr.
Strong, Mr. Lef, Mr. Baffett, Mr. Few, and Mr. Wingate, be a
committee, to bring in a bill for organizing the Judiciary of the
United States.
Ordered, That Mr. Ellfworth, Mr. Lee, Mr. Strong, Mr. Mac
lay, and Mr. Baffett, be a committee to prepare a fylfem Of rules
to govern the two Houses in cases of conference, and to take under
consideration the manner of electing chaplains, and to confer there
upon with a committee of the House of Representatives.
Ordered, That the fame committee prepare a fyftcm of rules for
coridufhng bufmefs in the Senate. Ad joutned
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8.
The Senate proceeded by ballot to the choice of a Secretary
Samuel Allyne Otis, Esq. was elected.
The refpeffive petitions of Abraham Okce, Cornelius Maxwell
and Abraham Mitchell, praying to be employed as attendants On
the Senate, were read, and ordered to lie on the table
The Senate proceeded to elefta meffcrtger, and Cornelius Max
v. ell was appointed. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Apr'I L 9 .
Thimemorial of John Bryce was read, praying to be employed
as BoOk-bmdtr, &c. to the Senate and House of Representatives
Ordered, That Mr. LaJigdon, Mi. Johnson, and Mr. Few be a
committee to mjke the necelfary arrangements for receiving the
President; and that they be empowered to confer with any com
mittee of the House of Reprefenfatives, that may be appoiiKcd for
thstptfrpofe. Adjourned to Safurdav next. '
SATURDAY, April n.
The Senate a (Tern bird : Prefent-From Neu-llampfkire, Mr
l.angdori, and Mr. Wingate-Ma/Jachfel/,, Mr. Strongi-Cw^,'-,
" A '?/' it ' c and^ r - k |lfworth — Mr. Paterfon,
and Mr. Elmer-Penvfylvania, Mr. M.clay-OtlabHre, Mr. Baffei
v irgima, Mr. Lee—Georgia, Mr. Few.
Adjourned until Mbqddy next.
MONDAY, April 13.
absence ' S '" U, ' dsy ' c,cr P t Mr - Paterfon, who had leave of
R r lph , r " rd ' f ? m thc Sta,c of South Carolina, the
Hon. Charles Catrol from the State of Maryland, and the Hon.
George Read,, from the State of Delaware, severally produced their
credentials, and took their feats in tlie Senate.
ThcTtpo.t of iht*CodlsAittli.*.aneoin:(ii the'-rt,
Sfyftetn of rules for conducing bufmefs , llc Stnw'e, 5
ordered to he until to-morrow forconfideration " srf *W
On inot.o.i, Ordered, That a committee of thrV» n„,i,
the Senate, be appointed to confer with any PMt ?
part of the House df Representatives, rn/trufted to th» "" C
|upon the future disposition of the papers in the rrffice '
Secretary of Congress, and report; ' r uV^ 1 ' 1 '
8 and ' v,r * be the committee on the paa oi ncT
,On ,not,on, Ordered, That the committee £*»*■
j ffahV, to determine the ceremonial proper to lie oblVrW 'l'
| r, ception of the Prdident, be to«&?■
I raiments are neccfliry for the ,ecep>.,on of the Vice PrrfdZ~
purpose. W 4 any COmmHUe lh > *»>& «™y , 0 that
j On motion, Ordered, That Mr. Lee, Mr. Kllfwotth, and Mr
• Few, be a conmnftee to conhder and report unon rht- r™.
canons made on the 6th in ft'. from the Itavor, &c. of the cm""■
New-York, tendering to the uicot the City-Hall '
On motion, Ordered, That an addition of one from ca'ahSme
not hiving a member already on the Committee, be added to t(
Committee of the 7 t h of April, to bring in a brll for organW
I the Judrciaryof the United States, and Mr. Carrol, and Mr l lt J
were joined. Adjourned. '
TUESDAY, April I
The Hon Tnltram Dalton, from the .State of Massachusetts an
prared, produced his credentials, and took his feat in the Senate
On the report oftlw- Committee appointed the 13thi1.fl. intake
into confederation the letter and communications from the Maror
o! the city of New-York, '
Ordered. That the following letter be written to the Mayor of
the City ofNew-Y ork, by the Prefidtnt; and that noting farther
lor the present be done in thi Imnicfi.
SIR NewYorh, APRIL J4,, , 7 8 ? .
THE Sena" have corf,d,red the letter that you were pteof.i to aiird,
■.tofnen Hol'ft on the 6th tnjl. and they entertiin a ptoplr seise oflhi rtf.
■ pofljhetbn to the General GovetnnreM of the United States, hi prtmdtnt
Uocommodtois a building for the accommodation ofCongnfs, as the Mac-
Aldermen, and Commonalty of the city hat* appropriated to that ]:!,'
j The appointment of Mr. Skautt t u the 'care of the public Hull mM ic
■ very agreeihle to the Senate ; but in their idia such appointment mult J,.
rjendnffma kgtjljtire aft/or creating the office, and'then theofctrtt
• L II Wt ' cm " con/lit,rtitnwlly from the nomination of the Pltfidtntof
i the United States, with the approbation of Stnate. in the mean turn tit
Senate have no iijcßion to the Mayor ami Aldermen appointing fudttr
•jott to the care ojthe nail as they deem worthy of such trill.
IhUve tfie hontr tsic. &t.
(Si on Eft.) The PRESIDENT of the SIN ATI.
ihf Hon. James Duane, Esq.
I he rules and orders as reported by the Committee were again
ji read, and ordered to l«e for confederation.
[ motion, a Committer, confiftmgof Mr. Read, Mr. Elfvrorth,
Pand Mr. Lee, were appointed toconfider of the utility of printing
• j journals weekly, and turmihm# the members -with copies;
I committee are infliu&ed to determine the mode of
. keeping the journals and report. Adjourned
W E D N ESD AY, April 15.
II Tc Committee appointed the 7th of April, to prepare a system
of rules to govern the two Houses in cases of conference, to take
into consideration the manner of electing chaplains, andtocon
; le. thereon with a Committee of the House of Representatives,
Reported, That they had conferred on the bufmefs with a Com
mittee of the House of Representatives for that purpose appointed*
\\hereupon, Rejvhed\ That? in every cafe of an amendment to a
bill to ' n one House, and dilTentcd to in theotber, if either
House Hiall retjuefl. a conference, and appoint a Committee for
that and the other House fball' also appoint a Committee
to confer, such Committees a convenient-time to be agreed
on by their Chairman, meet in the conference Chamber, and ibte
to each other, verbally, or in writing, either shall choose, the
reasons of their refpc&ive Houses, for andagainft the amendment,
and Confer frdcly thereon.
The Committee above mentioned further reported^
" That two Chaplains of different denominations be appointed
to Congress, for the present feflion, the Senate to appoint ene, and
give notice thereof to the House of Reprefentatives,who shall there
upon appoint the other, which Chaplains shall commence their
lervices in the Houses that appoint them, but shall interchange
weekly. Which was also accepted.
(To be continued.) ,
CONGRESS OY the UNITED STATES.
Begun and hcldat the Ci ty of on Wednesday the Fouitlr
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An AC I for allowing certain Compensation to the
Judges of the Supreme and other Courts anit»
the Attorney-General of the United States.
BE it enabled by the Senate and Hon ft of Rtfn
fentatives of the United States of America in Csngrtft
assembled, That there shall be allowed to the
judges of the supreme and other courts of the
United States,the yearly compensations hereinaf
ter mentioned, to wit ; to the chief juflice four
thousand dollars ; toeach of the justices of the
supreme court three thousand five hundred dol
lars ; to the judge of the diflrici of Maine one
thousand dollars ; to the judge of the iliftrict of
New Hampshire one thousand dollars ; tothejudgt
of the diftriCl of Maflachufetts twelve hundred
dollars ; to tliejudgeof the diftri<S:ofConnetlicut
one thousand dollars ; to the judge of the diftrktot
New-York fifteen hundred dollars ; to the judge
of the diflridl of New-Jersey one thousand dol
lars ; to the judge of the diflUdt of Pennfyl* 2-
nia sixteen hundred dollars ; to the judge of the
diltridl of Delaware eight hundred dollars; to
the judge of the diflrici of Maryland fifteen hun
dred dollars ; to the judge of thediftricft of Vir
ginia eighteen hundred dollars ; tothejudge"
the diftri»sl of Kentucky one thousand dollar®;
to the judge of the diflrici: of South-Carolina
eighteen hundred dollars; to the judge of di
ftriifl of Georgia fifteen hundred dollars ; and to
the attorney-general of the United States fifteen
hundred dollars ; which compensations fliall com
mence from their refpetftive appointments, an
be paid at the treasury of the United States i
quarterly payments. r
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBEM-
Speaker of the Iloufc of
JOHN ADAMS, Vict-Prefidnt of the
snd Prefidint ojtkc
Approved, September 23, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefidevt of th
JOHN FENNO, No. 9>
La n f., near the Ofwgp-Market. N *k • [3' •