[Mo. L 1.3.3
THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS it is the duty of all nations to ac
knowlege the Providence for Almighty
God to obey his will, to be grateful to his be
nefits, and humbly to implore his protection and
favor : And whereas both Houses of Congress
have, by their joint committee, requested me
« to recommend to the People of the United
« States, a Day of public Thanksgiving and Pray
« er, to be observed by acknowledging with
" grateful hearts the many and signal favors of
" Almighty God, especially by affording them
" an opportunity peaceably to establish a form
« of government for their fafety and happiness."
Now therefore, I do recommend and aflign
Thursday the twenty-sixth day of November next,
to be devoted by the people of these States, to
the service of that great and glorious Being,
who is the beneficent Author of all the good that
was, that is, or that will be : That we may then
all unite in rendering unto him our sincere and
humble thanks for his kind care and protection of
the people of this country previous to their be
coming a nation \ —for the signal and manifold
mercies, and the favorable interpositions of his
providence in the eourfe and conclusion of the
late war ; —for the great degree of tranquility,
union and plenty, which we have since enjoyed ;
forthepeaceable and rational manner inwhich we
have been enabled to establish Constitutions of Go
vernment for our fafety and happiness, and parti
cularly the national one now lately instituted ; for
the civil and religions Liberty with which weare
blefled, and the means we have of acquiring and
dilfufing ufeful knowledge ; —and in general, for
all the great and various favors which he hath
been pleafecl to confer upon us.
And also, That we may then unite in most
humbly offering our prayers and supplications to
the great Lord and Ruler of Nations, and be
seech him to pardon our national and other trans
gressions ; —to enable us all, whether in public
or private stations, to perform our several and
relative duties properly and punctually ; —to ren
der our national government a blefling to all the
people, by constantly being a government of wife,
jnft and conftirational laws, discreetly and faith
fully executed and obeyed ; —to protect and guide
all sovereigns and nations, (especially such as
have fhewnkindnefs unto us) and to bless them
with good government, peace and concord ; —to
promote the knowledge and practice of true reli
gion and virtue, and the encreafe of science a
mong them and us ; —and generally, to grant un
to all mankind such a degree of temporal pros
perity as he alone knows to be best.
GIVEN under my Hand, at the city of New-
York. the third day of Ollober, in the Tear of
our Lord one thtufend seven hundred and
eighty-nine.
G. WASHINGTON.
By the PRESIDENT
OP THE UNITED STATES OP AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS by virtue of powers given by the
United States in Congress aflembled, to Arthur
St. Clair, Governor of the territory north-weft
of the Ohio, and CommiflloJier Plenipotentiary
tor treating with the Indian nations in the north
em department, a Treaty was concluded at Fort-
Harmar, on the ninth day of January last pad, by
the said Arthur St. Clair, on the part of the
United States, with the Sachems, Chiefs and
Warriors of the Wyandot, Delaware, Ottawa,
Chippawa, Pattiwatima and Sac Nations.
WEDNESDAY, October 7, 17^9.
And whereas I have, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, in due form ratified the
said Treaty.—NOW Therefore, to the end that
the fame may be observed and performed with
good faith on the part of the United States, I have
ordered the said Treaty to be herewith published ;
and I do hereby enjoin and require all Officers of
the United States, civil and military, and all other
citizens and inhabitants thereof, faithfully to ob
serve and fulfil the fame.
GIVEN utider my Hand in the city of New-York,
this twenty-ninth day of September, in the
Tear of our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-nine, and in the thirteenth year of
the Sovereignty and Independence of the Uni
ted States.
G. WASHINGTON.
By command of the Pnjiient of }
the United States of Amcrica, J
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of War.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the
United States of America.
TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL COME,
GREETING :
WHEREAS a Treaty between the United
St atesandthe Wyandot, Dela w are,Ott wa
Chippewa, Pattawatima and Sac Nations of
Indians, was in due form made and concluded
at Fort-Harmar, on the ninth day of January
last part, by Arthur St. Clair, Governor of the
territory noTth-weft of the Ohio ; who was du
ly authorized thereto by the said States on their
part, and by the Sachems and Warriors of the
said Nations an their part : Which Treaty is in
the form and words following, viz.
ARTICLES of a Treaty made at Fort-Harmar, be
fmeen Arthur St. Clair, Governor of the Territory
of the United States north'weft of the river Ohio,and
CommiJJioner Plenipotentiary of the United States
of Amerisa; for removing allcaufes of contraverfy,
regulating trade, and fettling boundaries, with the
Indian nations in the northern department,of the one
part; and the Sachems and IV arriors of the Wyandot,
Dela-ware y Ottawa, Chippewa, Pattawatima and
Sac Nations, on the other part.
Article I. WHEREAS the United States in
Congress aflembled, did by their Commiifioners
George Rogers Clark, Richard Butler,and Arthui
Lee, Esquires, duly appointed for that purpose ;
at a Treaty holden with the Wyandot, Delaware,
Ottawa and Chippewa Nations, at Fort-M'lntoffi,
on the twenty-firit day of January, in the year
of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and
eighty-five, conclude a peace withthe Wyandots,
Delawares, Ottawas and Chippewas, and take
them into their friendfhip and protection : And
whereas at the said Treaty it was stipulated that
all prisoners that had been made by theirnations,
or either of them, Ihould be delivered up to the
United States : And whereas the said Nations,
have now agreed to and with the aforefaid Arthur
St. Clair, t*> renew and confirm all the engage
ments they had made with the United States of
America, at the before mentioned treaty, excepi
so far as are altered by these presents. And there
are now in the pofleffion of some individuals oi
these Nations, certain prisoners, who have been
taken by others not in peace with the said United
States, or in violation of the treaties fubiifting
between the United States and them ; the said
nations agree to deliver up all the piifoners now
in their hands (by what means soever they may
hare come into their pofleffion) to the said Go
vernor St. Clair, at Fort Harmar,or in his absence
to the officer commanding there, as soon as con
veniently maybe ; and for the true performance
of this agreement they do now agree to deliver
into his hands two persons of the Wyandot Na
tion, to be retained in the hands of the United
States as hostages until the laid prisoners are re
stored; after which they {hall be sent back to
their Nation.
Article 11. And whereas at the before mention
ed treaty it was agreed between the United States
and said Nations, that a boundary line ffiould be
fixed between the lands of those Nations and the
territory of the United States; which boundary
is as follows, viz.—Beginning at the mouth of
Cayahoga river, and running thence up the said
river to the portage between that and the Tufca
rawa branch of Mufkingum, then down the said
branch to the forks at the croffingj-place above
Fort-Lawrence, thence westerly to the portage
on that branch of the big Miamariver which runs
info the Ohio, (at the mouth of which branch the
rPublijhed on Wednesday and Saturday. j
fort stood which was taken by the French in the
year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and
fifty-two,) ihen along the said portage t3 the
Great Miami or Omie river; and down the south
east fide of the fame to its inouth ; thence along
the southern shore of Lake Erie to the inouth of
Cayahoga, where it began And the said Wy
andot, Delaware, Ottawa and Chippewa Nations,
for and in confederation of the peace then grant
ed to them by the said United States, and the
presents they then received, as well as of a quan
tity of goods to the value of fix thousand dollars,
now delivered unto them by the said Arthur St.
Clair, (the receipt whereof they do hereby ac
knowledge) do by these presents renew and con
firm the said boundary line; to the end that the
fame may remain is a division line between the
lands of the United States of America, and the
lands of said Nations, for ever. And the un
dersigned Indians do hereby in their own names,
and the names of their refpecftive Nations and
Tribes, their heirs and descendants, for the con
(lderation above mentioned, release, quit-claim,
relinquiih and cede to the said United States, all
the land east, south and weft of the lines above
defcribcd, so far as the said Indians formerly
claimed the fame ; for them thefaid United State®
to have and to hold the fame in true and abfoluto
propriety for ever.
Article 111. The United States of America do
by these prefentsrelinquifliand quitclaim to the
said Nations refpetftively, all the lands lying be
tween the limits above described, for them the
said Indians to live and hunt upon, and other
wise to occupy as they shall fee fit: But the said
Nations, or either of them, shall not beat liber
ty to fell ordifpofe of the fame, or any part there
of, to any sovereign power except the United
States ; nor to the fubjei. or citizens of any other
sovereign power, nor to the fubjetfts or citizens
of the United States.
Article IV. It is agreed between the said United'
States and the said Nations, that the individuals
of the said Nations lhall be at liberty to hunt with
in the territory ceded to the United States, with
out hindrance or molestation, so long as they de
mean tliemfelves peaceably and offer no injury or
annoyance to any jf the subjects or citizens ofthe
said United States..
Article V. It is agreed that if any Indian or In
dians of the Nations before mentioned, fliall com
mit a murder or robbery on any of the citizens of
the United States, the Nation or tribe to which the
offender oelongs, on complaint being made, /hall
deliver up the person or persons complained of,
at the nearest post of the United States ; to the
end that he or they may be tried, and if found
guilty, punished according to the laws establish
ed in the territory of the United States north
west of the river Ohio, for the punishment of
such offences, if the lame shall have been commit
ted within the said territory ; or according to the
laws of the State where the offence may have
been committed, if the fame has happened in
any of the United States. In like manner if any
fubjetft or citizen of the United States shall com
mit murder or robbery on any Indian or Indians
of the said Nations, upon complaint being made
thereof, he or they shall be arrested, tried and
punished agreeable to the laws of the State or of
the territory wherein the offence was committed ;
that nothing may interrupt the peace and har
mony now established betwen the United States
and said Nations. •
Article VI. And whereas the pradiice of stealing
horses has prevailed very much, to the great diA
quiet of the citizens of the Uniced States, and
if persisted in can not fail to involve both the
United States of America and the Indians in end
less animosity, it is agreed that it shall be put
an entire stop to on both fides ; nevertheless,
fhouldfome individuals in defiance of this agree
ment, and of the laws provided against such of
fences, continue to make depredations of that
nature, the person convicted theieof shall be
punished with the utmost severity the laws of the
refpecflive States, or territory of the United States
north-weft of the Ohio, where the offence may
have been committed will admit of: And all
horses so ftclen, either by the Indians from the
citizens or fubjeftsof the United States, or by the
citizens or fubjecfls of the United States from
any of the Indian Nations, may be reclaimed,
into whose poflefiion foeverthey may have pasTed,
and upon due proof shall be restored ; any sales
in Market Ouvert, notwithstanding. Andtheci
vil magistrates in the United States refpetftively,
and in the territory of the United States north
west of the Ohio, shall give all aid and
protection to Indians claiming such stolen horses.
Article VII. Trade fliall be opened with the
said Nations, and they do hereby refpetftively
cn £ a £ e t0 afford protection, to the persons andproperty of such as maybe July licensed to reside
among them for the purposes of trade, and to
their agents, fadtors and servants ; butnoperfon
lhall be permitted to reside at their towns or at
their hunting camps, as a trader, who is not fur
nilhed with a licetife for thatpurpofe, under the
hand and leal of the Governor of the territory
of the United States north-weft of the Ohio, for
the time being, or under the hand and seal of one
of- his deputies for the management of Indian
Affairs ; to the end that they may not be imposed
tipon in their traffic. And if any peiTon or per-
Jbns lhall intrude thenifelves without such licence,
they promise to apprehend him or them, and
to bring them to the said Governor, or one of his
deputies, for the purpose before mentioned, to
be dealt with according to law: And that they
may be defended against persons who might at
tempt to forge such licences, they further engage
to give information to the said Governor, or one
ot his deputies, of the names ofall traders resid
ing among them from time to time, and at lealt
once in every year.
Article VIII. Should any Nation of Indians me
ditate a war against the United States, or either
of them, and the fame ffiall come to the know
ledge of the before mentioned Nations, or either
of them, they do hereby engage to give imme
diate notice thereof to the Governor, or In his
absence to the officer commanding the troops of
the United States at the nearest post. And should
any nation with hostile intentions against the Uni
ted States, or either of them, attempt to pass
through their country, they will endeavor to
prevent the fame, and in like manner give infor
mation of such attempt to the said Governor or
commanding officer, as soon as possible, that all
causes of mistrust and suspicion may be avoided
between them and the United States : In like
manner the United States lhall give notice to the
said Indian Nations, of any harm thatniaybe me
ditated against them, oreither of them, that ffiall
come to their knowledge; and do all in their
power to hinder and prevent the fame, that the
friendfhip between them may be uninterrupted.
Article IX. If any person or perfons,citizens or
fabjeds of the United States, or any other person
not being an Indian, ffiall presume to fettle upon
the lands confirmed to the said Nations,he and they
ffiall be out of the protection of the United States ;
and the said Nations may punilh hiin or tlieni in
ljjch manner as they fee fit.
Article X. The United States renew tliereferv
ations heretofore made in the before mention
ed Treaty at Fort-M'lntoffi, for the establishment
of trading posts in manner and form following,
"That is to fay, fix miles square at the mouth of the
Miami or Omie-river—fix miles square atrheport
age upon the branch of the Miami which runs in
to the Ohio—fix miles square upon the LakeSan
dufky where the fort formerly stood—and two
miles square upon each fide the lower rapids on
Sandufky-river : Which posts, and the lands an
nexedto them, ihall be forthe use andunderthe
government of the United States.
Article XI. The Post at Detroit, with a diftri(ft
of land beginning at the mouth of the liver Rofine
at the weft end ot Lake Erie, and running up the
southern bank of said river fix miles ; thence
northerly, and always fix miles weft of theftrait
until it strikes the Lake St. Clair, ffiall be reserved
for the Use of the United States.
Article XII. In like manner the post at Miche
limackinac, with its dependencies, and twelve
miles square about the fame, ffiall be reserved to
the sole use of the United States.
Article XIII. The United States of America do
hereby renew and confirm the peace and friend
fhip entered into with the said nations at the trea
ry before mentioned, held at Fort M'lntofh ; and
the said Nations again acknowledge them Tel ves
and all their Tribes,to be under the protection
ot the said United States, and no other power
whatever.
Article XIV. The United States of America do
also receive into their friendfhip and protection,
the Nations of the Pattiwatimas and Sacs ; and do
hereby eftabliffi a league of peace and amity be
rween them refpeiftively; and all the articles of
this Treaty, so far as they apply tothefe Narions,
are to be considered as made and concluded in all,'
and every part expressly with them and each of
them.
Article XV. And whereas in describing the
boundary before mentioned, the words, if ftricftly
eonftrucfted, would carry it from the portage 011
that bianch ot the Miami, which runs into the
Ohio, over to the River Au Glaize ; which was
neither the intention of the Indians, nor of the
Commissioners ; it is hereby declared, that the
line lhall run from the said portage diretftly to
thefirft fork of the Miami-river, which is to the
Jbuthward and eafhvard of the Miami village
thence down the main branch of the Miami-river
to the said village, and tlience down that river to
Lake Erie, and along the margin of the lake to
the place of beginning.
DONE at bort-Harxiar, on the Mujkingum, this
Ninth Day of January, in the Tear of our Lord
One Thou/and Seven hundred and Eighty.nine.
Jn Witness whereof the Parties have hereunto
iuterchanaeably set their Hands and Sea!r.
ARTHUR St. CLAIR.' (L.S.)
PATTIWATIMA, ) c ,
KONATIKINA, $ l L - b '
Sacs STEPAKEE, (L.S.)
j KESHEYIVA. (1.. S.)
(MESASS, (L.S.)
Chippeuias. •< PAUSHQUASH, (L.S.)
(PAWAMCKO, (L. S.!
Ottavas. 5 ™' S S IA ' f l "*-;
\ NEAGEY, (L. S.J
(WINDIGO, (L.S.)
Fattiwatimas. < WAPASKEA, (L Si
C NEQUEA. (L.' s.j
(CAPTAIN PIPE, (L.S.)
Dclavaus.OOrT r G ™ N ' D ' (L ' S '
J PEKELAN, 'L.S.)
(I'EATAWAY. (L.S.I
(NANAMAKEAK, (L.S.)
, L . S,i
u )SOSkENE, L-S.l
(PEWANAKUM. (L.S.)
f TEYANDAT 'ON 'TEC, (L. S.)
| CHEYAWE, (L S ,
I DOUEYEN I'EAT, L. .V
Wyandot!. ■! jj £ ' 1 1 --S.j
1 TERHATAW, (L. S.)
DA'I ASAY, ;L. S.j
| MAUDORONK, (L. S.j
ISKAHOMAT. (L. S.)
In presence of
JOS. HARMAR, Lt. Col. Com. ill United States Regiment,
and Brig. Gen. by Brevet.
RICHARD BUTLER.
JOHN GIBSON,
WILLIAM McCURDY, Capt.
I'.. DENNY, Enlign lit United States Regiment.
A. HARTSHORN, Ensign.
ROBERT THOMPSON, Ensign id U. S. Reet.
FRANCIS LUSE, Ensign. 6
J. WILLIAMS, Jun.
WILLIAM WILSON,
JOSEPH NICHOLAS,
JAMES RINKEN.
Be it remembered, That the Wyandots have laid
claim to the lands that were granted to the Shaw
anefe, at the Treaty held at the Miami, and have
declared, that as the Shawanefe have been so rest
less, and caufedfo much trouble bothto them and
to the United States, if they will not now be at
Peace, they will difpoflefs tliem, and take the
Country into their own hands ; for that the Coun
try is theirs ot Right, and theShawanefe are only
living upon it by their permiflion. They further
lay claim to all the Country Weft of the Miami
boundary, from the Village to the Lake Erie
and declare that it is now under their Manage
ment and Direction.
separate article.
W hei eas the VVyandots have represented, that
within the reservation from the Riverßofine along
the Strait, they have two villages from which
they cannot with any convenience remove ; it is
agreed, that they shall remain in the pofleflion
of the fame, and /hall not be in any manner distur
bed therein.
NOW KNOW YE, That I having seen and
conftdered the said Treaty, do, by and with the
Advice and Consent of the Senate, accept, ratify,
and confirm the fame, and every Article and Clause
thereof. IN TESTIMONY whereof, I havecau
fed the Seal of the United States to be hereunto
affixed, and signed the fame with my Hand.
GIVEN at the City of New-York, the
Twenty. ninth Day of September, in
SEAL th: rcar of our LORD One Thonfand
Unit'i'd s'tatis. Seve " Hrmdred and Eighty.nine, and
in the Thirteenth Tear of the Sove
reignty and Independence of the Uni
ted States.
G. WASHINGTON.
By Command of The PreCdcnt of )
the United States of America, C
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of War.
EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS, BY THE LAST ARRIVALS.
I ON DON, JULY 30.
AFRICAN GENIUS.
The African Prince now at Brighchelmftone,
cal "talents n yC3rS ° W 'P ofli:(lfed of amazinginufi^
1 his extraordinary genius has been presented
to the Prince of Wales, who intends to recom.
mend him to the profeffional concert, as an ac
ceptable novelty to the admirers and lovers of
mulic.
He plays with exquisite mafcerfiiip on the violin.
e giandfather of this extraordinary youth
was committed to the care of a Dutch Captain
with diamonds to a great amount, and gold dust,'
to be carried to Europe and educated
After experiencing much barbarous treatment
fiom the avaricious Hollander, the unfortunate
Prince was fold, as aflave, to a Jamaica planter
The unhappy man met, however, with a kind
maiter to alleviate his misfortunes, and married
an African woman, by whom lie had the father
of this admirable boy. ratner
(Vjf'i' grandfather's demise, the father was
u CI 1 « U n lna ft er ' s favor, at wliofe ex
pence he was mftrudled in several lan-r Ua(r es
At the age of fifteen, he was permiaedlo 'take
a, voyagd to Africa, with proper teftlinnt,' 1 .
his birth ; but by a Angular fatality was'ft'
wrecked, and 101 l his documents P"
Beingconverfant infeveral languaees 1 1P ■
ed a subsistence by actingas interpreter to v 3 f
foreign Potentates in Europe. us
In thisfituation lie lived till the year t 77 9
When he was on the confines of Poland
the heart of aPoliih Count's daughter wh!,* 0 "
charmed with the « hair-bread?h eIW-
adventures of this second Othello. '
The Count gave him his daughter, who hm,
motherof ourmulical hero.
The father difcoveringio the child a verves
attachment to music, placed him under the eel/
brated Haydn in Germany, from whom he re'"
ceived his mulical education. From fuchcnltm
we may realonably presage perfection.
august 5.
Extratt of a Utter from Litchfield, An? ,
" This gay city presents very little orthnn
tice, except a wonderful pile of building
a cathedral. This cathedral is undergoing av7
ry neceflary tho expensive repair, directed L
that great artist, Wyatt. Had he never done an v
work before to render his name conspicuous as an
architect, the taste and genius displayed in the
alteration and modernization of the choir is f u (?i
cient to transmit his name to posterity with ado'
ation. A fubfeription is set on foot here for erect
ing a monument near the south door, to that Co
101 l lis of literature, the late Dr. Johnson who
was a native of this place. A similar compliment
has been mentioned to the memory of'our departed
Rofcius, but it seems to be the natural expecfta
ton of the inhabitants, that a certain lady in the
neighbourhood of Hampton, inMiddlefex, should
accoinplifh this long looked for mark ofrefpect to
Shakefpear's best commentator."
L xtr a(I oj a letter from Tangier s, June 1,
" The Kmperor Morocco's troops have gained
a great victory over the Arabs, in the province
of Teifna, and 600 of their heads have been fern
to Algiers This victory was proclaimed thereby
repeated discharges of cannon."
To the account of the battle between the Ruf
fians and Swedes at Undermalm, we have to add
these farther particulars. At the departure of the
Courier which carried the news of the KinoV vic
tory,the Kingwas on his route to Wilinanftrandt,
the place where the Rullians keep their principal
magazines, and which commands an entranceinto
their country. In the mean time, General Sie
grotli advanced with another corps towards Fre
dericklham to block up that place by land, while
General Kaulbars, with a tliird detachment went
up the river Kymene ; and Count Ekrenfward
was ordered to land from his fleet, a body of
5000 men, between Frederickfham and Hogforb,
to attack the Ruffian army, near the firft men
tioned place. From these different arrangements,
this campaign promises to be as bloody and deci
sive as the last was peaceable.
AUGUST 8.
The following is reported to be the circum
stance to which the Duke of Dorset alludes, in
the second paragraph of his letter to the Count de
Montmorin :—The nobility of Brittany have ne
ver sent deputies to the National Aflembly, but
perceiving the troubles which were brewing, and
torefeeing the consequences which have ref'ulted,
they resolved to seize an opportunity of shaking
offtheir allegiance to France, and rendering that
Province more independent than it had hitherto
been.
For that pnrpofe, rumour fays, they made a
proposal to the English Ambaflador, of putting
themselves under the protection of Great-Britain,
as a tributary Hate, to be governed by the old
feudal system ; and offered to place the port of
Brest in the hands of the English, as a recompence
for their services, and a surety of allegiance. In
order to accomplish their design, the Duke of Dor
set was to procure from his Court a fleet in readi
ness to protecfl the Province, and an armytoaffift
them in their endeavours to carry the attempt in
to execution.
Extra(} from the JOURNAL of the NATIONAL
ASSEMBLY of FRANCE.
July 29,
A report was made in the Aflembly, that the
Parliament ofßefancon had sent a deputation to
Vezoul, toa<ft with the Judge Royal in enquiring
into the late horrid maifacre, but that the people
had ri fen upon them and obliged them to return,
that, in consequence, the Parliament had iflue»
an arret, renouncing their jurifditftion, and hM
submitted the affair entirely to the consideration
of the National Assembly.
July 31.
The following motion made by Count Laliy>
in the National Aflembly, the 24th of July
and carried at one o'clock (aftermidnight) niuf
give a very favorable opinion of the head arm
heart of thatyoungNobleman, who makes sod) ■
tinguifhed a figure among the patriots of trance
'l he motion was as follows :
" The National Aflembly, considering, 1 3 J
from the firft moment of its formation, it has 110
adopted any resolution, that ought not to p lO
cure it the confidence of the people.
" Thar it has already established thole p nciples, which ought to be the bafts, on Which thfi
liberty and happiness of die public muftbe raifecl.
" That the King has acquired greater rights
than ever to the confidence of his faithful T'ub
je<fts.
" That not only he has hinjfelf invited them
to claim their liberty and their rights, but has al
so, to gratify thewifhes ofthis Alieinbly, remov
ed all grounds for diflruit, that might alarm the
people —
" That he fentback from the capital, the troops,
whose presence had spread a terror through it
" That he lent back from his presence the Mi
nisters and advisers, who had occalioned so much
inquietude to the nation at large—
" That he has recalled thole, whose return
was wilhed for by his people—
" That he came into this Aflembly like a fa
tlier among his children, and called upon it to
assist him in saving the State—
" That led by the fame sentiment, he went ro
Iris capital, and mixed with his people, to re
move, by his presence, the grounds of fear, which
they might have entertained—
" That in this perfect harmony and under
standing between the head of the Nation and its
representatives, after the happy union of the
three orders, the attention ofthis Aflembly is di
rected, and will continue to be directed to the
oreat objecft of a National Conllitution—
" That any diftrulV, which should interrupt or
disturb the harmony, that at present so happily
reigns between all the orders and their head,
would impede the progress of this great work,
defeat the patriotic intentions of the King, and
give a fatal blow to the general intcrelV of the
Nation at large, as well as to the particular inte
rest of every individual, of whom it is composed.
" That there is riot a member of the commu
nity who ought not tofhudder at the bare idea
of the confuhon that would ensue.—The difper
llon of families—the interruption and suspension
of trade—the poor deprived of relief—all labor at
a stand—and the general subversion of all order
and government, would be the fatal but inevita
ble conl'equences of such a distrust.
" The National Aflembly taking all these cir
cumstances into its molt serious consideration,
holds out to the whole Nation an invitation to
peace and harmony, to the maintenance of order
and good government. It invites tliofe who glo
ry in the name of Frenchmen, to clierilh that
confidence which they ought to place in their
King andtheir Representatives, and ro fljew that
refpet't for the laws, without which there can be
no true liberty.
" It declares, at the fame time, that tliofe who,
invested with power have been, or by their crimes
may be the cause of public calamities, ought to be
accused, convicted, and punished ; but that it is
only by law thatthey should be tried and punish
ed, and that the law should protect their per
sons, until it has pronounced their judgment.
" That the prosecution of crimes against the
Nation, belongs to the Nation's Representatives.
" And that this Aflembly, in framing the Con
stitution which now occupies its attention, will
take care to provide a proper tribunal, for the
trial of persons accused of crimes of this nature ;
and to point out the manner in which such pro
fccutions /hall be condmfted, laying it down as a
principle, that publicity shall be inseparably an
nexed to all such trials."
The fentiinents and opinions contained in this
resolution or address to the nation, are not tliofe
of a mad reformer, more intent npon pulling
down than building up —They are worthy of a
Philosopher and a Legislator, who knows that
where there is 110 Law, there can be no govern
ment—that innocence itfelf may be termed guilt
l>y a mad populace, too much heated to be capa
ble ofdifcerningbetween the one and the other,
or at least of giving that calm and patient hear
mgwhich Justice calls for, and the Law enjoins.
This resolution, if it was the only one praise
worthy in the political careerof Count Lally,
would, even singly, be an eternal monument to
his honor.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
Jamaica Spirits, ... 5/0.
Antigua Ram, - 4^.
St. Croix, do. - -
Country, do. - -
Molafles, - 2/2. <1 2/1.
Brandy, - - - £ fa.
Geneva, - 5J3.
80. in cases, - - 28f
Mui
covado Sugar, - - 7 8/T a 7 ?f.
Loaf, do. - — 1/3.
Lump, do. - - IJi£.
Pcppn; ... 3 f
Pimento, ... ?/i. a if.
Coffee, . . 1/8. * 1/9.
Indigo, (Carolina) - - \J. a 6f.
- - £4f. a 23\f.
Superfine Flour, - - - 4 g/7
C ommon do. - - a 4,5 f.
Rye do. - . _ 26f. a 2jf.
Indian Meal, - - . ißf •
- 4pr. bojli.
Corn, ' (Southern) - " 4/!
Do. (Northern.) - 4/3. a 4f6.
firft qualify, - . 48f. a 50/.
Second quality, - - 4c,f.
Pork, firft quality, - - 81fo.
~ Second quality, - - 76/6-
Carolina Tobacco, - odL a 5/.
Virginia , . . ±d. a
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 7.
ERRATA.
(pf* In the PROCLAMATION, firft column of this papery
there are Two Errors of the Press, which the reader is desired to
correct, viz. 2d line, read " Providence —3d line* read
" grateful for."
We hear that Jonathan Uurrall, Esq. is appointed aflift
ant Poft-Maiter-General—and Sebastian BaumaNi tfq. Post-
Master for this city.
Wi f e Legislators in all ages of the world) have intimately asso
ciated the principles of virtue with the principles of government)
and whether it is an ejfeft) flowing from its proper caufe —or whe
ther it is to be attributed to the fpccial favor of the Deity > exper
ience demonstrateS) that public virtue, and public happiness, have
always been found to flourifli together: There is no security for
the general tranquility—for a iteady and uniform obedience to
the laws) on the part of the people, or for the fidelity and honor
of those who administer the government, like a principle of re
verence for the Deity : How highly favored then is our country>
at the prcfent aufpicjous period, in having those to govern, who re
commend by precept and Example, a devout acknowledgement
of our dependence upon the Creator and Lord of all, for every
private, social, and public blefling j
Look to the European world, there meagre famine stalks thro
the land, while civil discord follows clofj in the rear—the Dogs of
War spread havoc wide, in other ill fated realms, to fate the lust
of ambition, and give atalfe 111 ft re to the Diadem of despotism—
The wretched peasantry are dragged from their peaceful abodes,
and have their mangled corses strewed o'er the extended field of
or piled like rubiih in the yawning ditch—the fields disro
bed of their verdure lie uncultivated and barren, while universal
ruin forms one horrid scene : There the revolutions in government
produce proferiptions and maflacres, while the cause of Freedom
hangs suspended on the vibration of opinion.—Contfaft the above
with the situation of the United States, and fay if we have not rea
son to admire and adore—Peace and plenty crown our toils—an
exuberance of the rich gifts of Providence is ours-t-Freedom per
vades our country, and laws and government give the rich blefling
permanency and security—we have found the art of making revo
lutions without confulion, and of establishing the rights of human
ity without disturbing the public tranquility—Happy America—
May'fl thou still be wife to discern the things that belong to thy
peace—and be grateful to the giver of every good gift.
Tho under a defpoticand arbitrary government informers may
be odious, as they are generally actuated by the inoft mercenary
motives—yet under a tree government, the support of which de
pends upon the Revenae, every good and honest man will think it
honorable and praise worthy to dete& those frauds and 1111-
positions, which haveeventually, no tendency to leflen public bur
dens, but to encreafe their weight and preflure on the fair and up
right trader : Philadelphia has fct a laudable example in this res
pect, tor guarding the conlcientiousand ftri&ly honeit dealer from
the effects of those fliamcful evasions of the la ws which the un
principled practice, is protefling thole who pi op the government
Every government depends on its own inherent energy for its
efficacy and relpe&ability : It will be a long time before many of
mankind will think that they cannot promote their own interest
by violating the laws.
EXTRACT.
Should if ever come to pafsthat corruption, like a dark and low
hung mill, should spread from man to man, aud cover these lands
—Should a general diflolution of manners prevail—Should vice be
countenanced ,andcommunicated by the leadersof f fliion—Should
it come to be propogated by ministers among legislators, and by
the legislators among their constituents—Should guilt lift up its
head without fear of reproach, and avow itfelf in the face of the
fun, and laugh virtue out of countenance by force of numbers-
Should public duty turn public strumpet—Should (hops come to
be advertized, where men may dispose of their honor and honesty
at so much pr. ell—Should public markets be opened for the pur
chase of consciences, with an 0 yes ! we bid most to those who
set themselves, their trusts, and their country to sale! If such a
day, I fay, fliould ever arrive, it will be Dooms-day, indeed, to
the virtue, the liberties, and the Constitution of these States. It
would be the fame to Am erica as it would happen to the Uni
verse fliould the laws of co-hefion cease to operate, and all the
parts be diflipated, whose orderly connexion now forms the
beauty and Commonwealth of Nature : Want of goodness
in the materials can never be supplied by any art in the building :
A constitution ofPußLic Freemen can never confifl of PR IV at fc
TOOLS OF PROSTITUTION.
There appears in the publications from France,
a spirit of originality,pathos and vivacity, which
strongly indicates the conscious state of freedom
to which the people of that country find them
selves exalted.—Under all the disadvantages that
their men of genius have had to encounter, still
their performances, on almost every fubjecft, have
carried the palm, even among their proud neigh
bors the Britifli, whose prefles have longgroaned
with French translations : and there is no doubt
but that mankind will be taught something new
by this enlightened nation, on the fubjeds of
liberty and the rights of man.
" Col. Henry Sherburne, of Newport, lately
manumitted a prime Have, of about 33 years of
a<re. Such arts of humanity (many of which have
raken place) by the late American army, give
frefh verdure to their laurels acquired in the field,
and furniflithefureft pledges to their country for
the future conduct of the Cincinnati."
DESCRIPTION Of THE B A STILE.
The following Description of the Baflilc PriJo>:,
in France (which has lately been destroyed by
the populace) is extracted from the philanthro
pic Mr. Howard's State of Foreign Prisons.
I AM happy (fays Mr. Howard) to be able
to give some information of the Baftile, by means
of a pamphlet written by aperfon who was long
confined in this prison. It is reckoned the beil
account of this celebrated ftruiiture everpublifhed.
This castle is a Urate prison, confiding of eight
very strong towers, surrounded with a f'ofle about:
120 feet wide, and a wall 60 feet high. The en
trance is at the end of the street of Sr. Antoine,
by a drawbridge, and great gates into the court
of 1' Hotel du Government ; and from thence over
another drawbridge to the Corps de Garde, which
is separated by a ftroijg barrier, conftm<fted with
beams plated with iron, from the great Court.
This court is about 120 feet by 80. In it is a foun
tain, and fix of the towers surround it, which are
united by walls of freeflone ten feet thick up to
the top. At the bottom of this courtls a large
modern Corps de Logis, which separates it from
t lie Court du Puits. This court is 50 feet by 2J.
Contiguous to it are the other two towers. Oil
the top of the towers is a platform continued in.
terraces, on which the prisoners are sometimes
permitted to walk, attended by a guard. On
this platform are thirteen cannons mounted,which
are discharged on days of rejoicing. In the Corps
de Logis is the council chamber, and the kitchen,
offices, See.—above these arerQoms for the priso
ners of diftintftion ; and over the council chamber
the King's Lieutenant relides. In the Court du
Puits is a large well for the use of the kitchen.
The Dungeons of the tower de la Liberte ex
tend under the• kitchen, &c. Near that tower
is a small chapel on the ground floor. In the
wall of it are five nitches, orclofets, in which pri
soners are put, one by one, to hear mass, where
they can neither fee nor befeen.
The dungeons at the bottom of the towers ex
hale the molt offenfive scents, and are the recep
tacles of toads, rats, and other kinds of vermin.
111 the corner of each is a camp made of
planks laid 011 iron bars that are fixed to the walls,
and the prisoners are allowed fomeftrawto lay on
the beds. Those dens are dark, having 110 win
dows, but openings into the ditch : they have dou
ble doors, the inner ones plated with iron, with
large bolts and locks.
Of the five clafles of chambers, the 1110 ft horrid,
next to the dungeon, are those in which are cages
of iron. There are three of them. They are
formed of beams with strong plates of iron, and
are each eight feet by fix.
The calottes, or chambers, at the top of the
towers, are somewhat more tolerable. They are
formed of eight arcades of free-ftones. Here
one can not walk but in the middle of the room.
There is hardly fufficient space for a bed from
one arcade to another. The ■windows, bein«;i;i
walls ten feet thick, and having iron grates with
in and without, admit but little light. In these
rooms, the heat is exceflive in fu:nmer, and the
cold in winter. They have ftovee.
Almost all the other rooms (of the towers) are
ocflagons, about 20 feet in diameter, and 14 to 1;
high. They are very cold and damp. Each is
furnifhed with a bed of green serge, &c. All the
chambers are numbered. The prisoners are call
ed by the name of their tower joined to the num
ber of their room.
A surgeon and three chaplains reside in the
castle. If prisoners of note are dangerously ill,
they are generally removed, that they may not
die in this prison. The prisoners who die there
are buried in the parifli of St. Paul, under the
name of doineftics.
A library was founded by a prisoner, who was
a foreigner, and died in the Baftile the beginning
of the present century. Some prisoners obtain
permission to make the use of it.
One of thecentinels on the inside of the castle
rings a bell every hour, day and night, to give
notice that they are awake ; and on the rounds 011
the outside of the castle they ring every quarter
of an hour.
I have (fay Mr. Howard) inserted so particular
an account of this prison, chiefly with the design
of inculcatinga reverence for the principles of a
free constitution like our own, which will not
permit in any degree the exercise of that defpo-r
tifm, which has rendered the name of Baftile so
formidable. I was defirousof examining it my
felf ; and for that purpose knocked hard at the
outer gate, and immediately went forward
through the guard to the drawbridge before the
entrance of the castle ; but while I was contem
plating this gloomy mansion, an officer came out
much i'urprized ; and I was forced to retreat
through the mute guard, and thus obtained hat
freedom, which for one locked up within those
walls, itis next to impoflible to obtain.
NEW-YORK, October 7, 1789.
The Stage Houfefor the Bojlon and Albany Stages is vow ut Mr.
Isaac Norton's, No. 160, Queen Street—where pajjengers, and others*
who may have bujtnefs with the proprietorj, will please to appl,, and
where the names and eddrefs cfperfons arc received, ar.d tickets deliver"
eJfor fer.tr.THE TABLE T.—No. LI.
To the AUTHOR of the TABLET,
SIR.
If theenclofedobfervationsarenot novel, they
are at leall founded on expc ricnce :—lf you think
they may be ufeful, allow them a place in your
miscellany, and oblige C.
'' Ufefid and important acquisitions in learning arc more to be
prized t than thofc that are specious, and may nevet turn to any
iolid account."
ALTHO an easy elocution, and graceful
manlier of speaking are acquirements of acknow
ledged utility, yet improvements in oratory do
not appear to have kept pace wiih many other
branches of the bell e lettres. Some have fnppofed
that there are certain obltacles in the way, which
will forever, pyevent the moderns from rivalling
or even equalling the ancients in this particular
attainment. It is said, that the refinements of ci
vilization counteract, and check those animated
exertions of the human faculties, from which the
imprelfive eloquence of the ancients derives its su
perior reputation. However true this may be,
it mull" be allowed that 110 one accompliihmentis
more admired, or is found of greater advantage
to the pofleflor, even in modern times, than
an easy, graceful mode of speaking : And it is
presumed the observation is founded on experi
ence, that in all free governments the perfualive
powers of eloquence are paramount to every dif
ficulty in the road to fame and fortune. America
furnilhes many striking examples in point. In
Britain they are numberless : Her Pulteneys,
her Pitts, her Burkes, have not only aftoniih
ed the world by the thunders of their declama
tions ; but have roused the sleeping genius of
their country and turned the crisis of its fate,
when 011 the verge of deftrudtion. Honours and
emoluments have rewarded their eloquence and
patriotism.
The old observation, that "Poets are born, but
" orators are made," is fofarjuft, that every
man may be encouraged to exej-tion, from a con
fidence that he will be rewarded, at lealt so far,
as amply to recompence his labor. Perhaps it is
. hardly ever too late to aim at some improvement.
Within a few years public speaking has become
an objeift of attention in schools, academies, and
colleges. It is a queition of some importance, how
far the present practice of attempting to teach
young children oratory, will conduce eventually
to encreafing the number of good public speakers ?
It mult be acknowledged that there are not a great
many able in (trustors in this branch of learning;
and for children to commence upon bad or indif
ferent models, is worse than having none. Na
ture is spoiled under such tuition. An indiscri
minate and injudicious aflignment of the partsto
be performed, which is always the cafe when the
pupils are too young to feel the sentiment, is pro
ductive of the worst conlequences : Grimace and
inhnickry must be substituted ; the child acquires
a disgusting confidence, to the deftrudtion of that
modelty which is the belt medium of true wisdom
to the mind. I have seen children afl'ume a daunt
less front in speaking before a numerous audience,
while they were deficient in every article of solid
and ufeful improvement. I have known others ca
relled and applauded at seven or eight years of
age, who when they became men, entirely disap
pointed every plealing anticipation that their pa
rents had formed. The reason is obvious, Chil
dren have memories which receive, and retain
fi»r a time, the llighteft imprefliotis—they are as
imitative as monkeys: Injudicious applaulb poi foils
their imaginations and inflates their vanity.
Tliefe combined causes allure them into the
love of a praCticefrom which they derive the
grateful incense of praise, to the liegleft of more
important objects. Their improvement in speak
ing, not being founded in principle, and fenti
rtient, turns out in the end, worse than nothing ;
for it appears that their time has been facrificed
in pursuit of a tifelefi acquilition.
However desirable a manly confidence in chil
dren may be, it is much to be feared that when
inspired at too early a period, it lays the founda
tion of conceit, arrogance and ignorance. And
if it were other wife, experience deirtonftrates
that an infeniible, unfeeling orator never
pleases. Perhaps no univerfol rule can be de
termined on. Observation and experience will
afford the belt guide. In general it may be ob
served, that the memories of children often be
come the repository of many things, before they
begin to reason, or accurately compare ideas; that
as this faculty is thus ealily susceptible of im
prcfiious, their senses are equally affected by ex
ternal objects, so as to induce an irrefutable imi
tation of every species of adtion that comes in
contact with them. Hence we are apt to be de
ceived, by mistaking tliefe appearances for real
improvements. The molt that can be derived
from tliefe sources, before realon begins to
alliime its Iway, si to form, and fix certain rules
in the memory, and to give those rules a lading
influence, by the force of habit. When the judg
ment begins to ripen, tliefe rules may be applied ;
and then, but not before, the business of public
declamation may be commenced. Itis generally
found that lads make but indifferent progress in
tliofe parts of education whici require much re
flection, before they are eleven or twelve year s
old. Perhaps this will apply with as great iorce
to the fubjetft under consideration, as to any what
ever. It is of much greater importance to teach
children to read well, than to teach them to de
claim early.— The former is an introduction to
the latter, and depends merely 011 rules ; the el
fentials of the latter are abftra<ft in their nature,
and entirely above the comprehension of children.
N. B. 11l Tab let No. L. third line. Kill paragraph, for oieycd
read dii'obeycd.
extract from an oration,
Pronounccd at Marietta on the 4th of July, 1789, by Return J.
M eics, Esq. Attorney at Law. v
ENOUGH of tributary praise is paid,
To virtue living, or to merit dead.
To happier themes, the rUral Muse invites,
To calmcft pleasures, and serene delights ;
To us, glad fancy, biighteft profpe£ls (hows,
Rcjoicing nature, all around you glows;
Here late the Savage hW in ambu(h lay,
Or roam'd the uncultur'd vallies lor his prey ;
Here frown'd the sorest with terrific shade,
No cultur'd fields exgos'd the opening glade ;
How chang'd the scene! See nature cloth'd in fmilei
With jby repays the lab'ror for l his toils.
Hct hardy gifts, rough industry extends,
The groves bow down, the lofty sorest bends ;
On every fide, the cleaving axes found,
The oak, and tall beach thunder to the ground.
And fee the spires of Marietta rife,
And domes, and temples swell into the (kies :
Ylere Justice reign, and foul diffention cease,
Her walks be pleasant—and her paths be peace.
Here fwift Mufkingum rolls his rapid waves ;
There furmenous vallies, fair Ohio laves ;
On its smooth furface, gentle zephyrs play,
The fun beams tremble with a placid ray;
What future harvests on his bosom glide,
And loads of Commerce swell the 44 downward tide,'*
Where Miflifippi joins in length'ning sweep,
And rolls majestic to the atlantic deep.
Along our banks, fee distant villas spread—
Here waves the corn—and there extends the mead —
Here found the murmurs of the gurgling rills ;
There bleat the flocks upon a thousand rills.
Fair opes the lawn—the fertile fields extend,
The kindly (howcr-from smiling Heavendefcends,
The {kies drop fatnefs, on the blooming vale,
From spicy (hrubs ambrosial sweets exhale,
Frefti fragrance rises from the fiowrets bloom,
And ripening vineyards breathe a 44 glad perfume."
Here fwtlls the music of the warbling grove,
And all around is melody and love.
Here may religion fix her blest abode—
Blight emanation of creative God ;
Here Charity extend her liberal hand,
And mild benevolence o'er-fpread the land,
In harmony the social virtues blend—
J rt y. without measure—rapture, without end.
B 10G RAP HICAL.
DIED in Petty France, London, aged 80, John
Cleland, Esq. He was the foil of Col. C. that cele
brated fuftitious member of the Spe<slator's Club,
whom Steele describes under the name of Will
Honeycomb. A portrait of him hung up in the
foil's library till his death, which indicates all
the manners and d' abord of the fafhionable town
rake in the beginning of this century. The son,
with the scatterings of the father's fortune, and
some share of his diflipations, after parting through
the forms of a good education in Westminster
College, where he was admitted in 1 7Z2, at the
age of 13, and was contemporary with Lord Mans
field, went as Consul to Smyrna, where perhaps,
he firft imbibed tliofe loose principles which, in
a subsequent publication, too infamous to be par
ticularized, tarnifliedhis reputation as an author.
On his return from Smyrna he went to the East
Indies ; but quarrelling with some of the Mem
bers of the Presidency of Bombay he made a pre
cipitate retreat from the East, with little or no
benefit to his fortune. Being without profeffion,
or any fettled means of fubfiftance, he soon fell
into difficulty ; a prison, and its miseries, were
the consequences. In this situation one of tliofe
booksellers who disgrace the profeffion offered
him a temporary relief for writing the work above
alluded to, * which brought a stigma on his name
which time has not obliterated, and which will
be consigned to his memory whilst its poisonous
contents are 111 circulation. For this publication
he was called before the Privy Council, and the
circumftancesof his distress being known, as well
as his being a man of some parts, Jolin Ear]
Granville, the then President, nobly ref'cued him
from the like temptation, by getting him a pen
flon of tool, per year, which he enjoyed to his
death, and which had so much the dcfired t.Tedt
that,that except " TlieMemoirs ofaCoxcomb"
which has lomefmack of diflipated manners and
" The Man of Honor," written as an amende htm
orable for his former exceptionable book, Mr. C
mostly dedicated his time to political and philo
logical publications, and was the author of the
long letters given in the public prints, from time
to time, signed A Briton, Modejlus, &c.&c. and of
some curious tra<fts on the Celtic language. He
lived within the income of his pension for many
years, in a retired lituation in Petty France, sur
rounded by a good library, and the occasional
visits of some literary friends, to whom he was a
very agreeable companion,and died at the advanc
ed age of 80. In converlation he was very plea
sant and anecdotical, underltanding 1110 ft of the
living languages, and speaking them all very
fluently. As a writer, he shewed himfelf best in
novels, long-writing, and the lighter species of
authorship ; but when he touched politicks he
touched it like a torpedo, he was cold, benumb
ing, and foporifick.
NOT E.
* The sum given for the copy of this work was 20 guineas.
The sum received for the sale could not be less than io,oool.
RE-PUBLISHED BY PARTICULAR DESIRE.
FROM THE PROVIDENCE GAZETTE.
To BRUTUS*.
IN a paper printed without the Union, and for
that and other reasons very properly called The
United States Chronicle, you have publilhed " Cofi
fiderations on the Order of Cincinnatus," and
dared to attack the character of " a Wajhington."
Think not that lam about to defend it. My pea
cannot add toitslullre, nor your efforts call there
on the Ihadow of a shade.
Proceed in abusing the meritorious officers of
the late American army, and diltinguiih them, if
you please, by every opprobrious epithet that
malice, ingratitude or antifederalifm can suggest;
but permit me to recommend, that you fparethe
President-General. It may be that youwrite for
a name. Erollratus, for perpetuating his name,
or rather his infamy, burnt the celebrated temple
of Diana at Ephefus—and Brutus has attempted
tofullythe virtuesofa Washington ! SENEX.
NOT *.
* A writer against the Cincinnati in the United States Chroni
cle.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATtS.
Begun and held at the City of AVu/- York, on Wcdnefday the Fourth
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nioc.
An ACT to suspend part of an Ad, entitled "An AH
to regulate the colleCtien of the Duties ivipojtdh
Law on the Tonnage of Ships or Veflels, ui(»
Goods, Wares, and Merchandizes, mforttiklt
the United Stater," and for other purpofei.
BE/J enabled by the Senate and Hotife ofßtpri
fentatives of tf)e United States of America in Corigrifs
afembled, That so much of the A eft, entitled "An
Act to regulate the collection of the duties im
posed by law, on the tonnage of Ships or Veflels,
and on Goods, Wares, and Merchandizes, import
ed into the United States," as obliges (hips or
veflels bound up the river Potowmac, to come to,
and deposit inanifefts of their cargoes, with the
officers at Saint Mary's and Yeocomico, before
they proceed to their port of delivery, shall be ana
is hereby suspended until the firft day of May next.
Be it further enalled, That all the privileges and
advantages to which ftiips or veflels owned by
citizens ofthe United States, are by law entitled,
shall be, until the fifteenth day of January next,
extended to ships and veflels wholly owned bv
citizens of the States of North-Carolina, an
Rhode-Island, and Providence Plantations.—
vided, That the niafter of every such ship or ve
fel last mentioned, shall produce a regiftet for
the fame, conformable to the laws of the state in
which it shall have been obtained, 'hewingt ®
the said ship or veflel is, and before the nut a ?
of Septemberinftant, was owned as aforefaid, an
make oath or affirmation, before the collector o
the port in which the benefit of this act is c aiw
ed, that the ship or veflel for which such teg l
is produced, is the fame therein nientione , a
that he believes it is ft ill wholly owned y
person or persons named in said register, an t
he or they are citizens of one of the states a o
said. „ , ,f
And be it further naCled, That all rum, WJ
sugar, and chocolate, manufactured or nia
the State of North-Carolina, or Rhode-Man ,
Providence Plantations, and imported or r S
into the United States, ihall be deemed an
to be, fubjedt to the like dt .-' s , as S"° s °,- n2 .
like kinds, imported from an foreign Itate,
dom or country, are made it bjeCtto- .
And be it further enabled, That Rehoboth,«
theftate of MafFachufetts, fhrl! be aport o
and delivery, until the fifteenth day o J _
next, and that a Colletftor >e appoints
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS
Speaker oft' r Houjc of p
JOHN ADAMSi VUfB, ej tk St*
Ar;F OR ('a?. S W ASH INGTO n!
P. Wiflied b, TOHN FENNO, No. 9>
La a' e, near llie tfccroo-Markclj N£ w 0H K *