[No. LIV.]
THE TABLE T—No. LIV.
<< J„ all the labors offelf-prefervation, man is in
tent on avoiding what is hurtful to him : hut in the
enjoyment of what is pieafant his thoughts are relaxed
and he is void of care : he can swallow a thousand de
lights, one after another, without ajking quejlions ;
hut the leajl evil makes him inquisitive whence it
tame, in order to shun it."
THIS propensity in our nature, to be more
ltrongly affected with the evil than with
the good that happens to us, is a source of great
error in our opinions and reasonings. From this
cause, the prevailing notions of religion have not
generally been calculated to make men amiable
and happy ; and the molt lively imprellions res
petting government have been strongly marked
with fear and discontent.
The dark ages of ignorance and fiiperftition,
that have covered so great a portion of the hu
man race, have confined the influence of reason
and philosophy within narrow bounds. Men
have neceflarily adted under the force of some
prevailingdelufion ; and so low and debased has
been the state of society, in mod periods of the
world, that the feelings of people have unavoi
dably received a tinge, unfavorable both to the
character and happiness of rational beings.
As society advances from a state of barbarity,
or is extricated from the lhackles of defpotifin,
people aflume a greater elevation of spirit. Men
ad less under the itnpulfe of their gloomy, unso
cial paflions. Religionprefents few horrors toa
mind over which reason has been accustomed to
allume a sway. Government likewise is viewed
in a more agreeable light as men progress in ci
vilization.
Every man has an image of the Deity existing
within himfelf ; and though the scripture repre
sents that God made man in his own image ; yet
universal experience likewise proves the reverCe
to be true, and we accordingly find that, Manmakes
Cod after his own image.
A savage is familiarized only to natural good
and evil. The enjoyment of the former is so uni
form and tranquil that it makes no strong im
preifions. He participates in the bleflings of
light and air; he is refrelhed with showers, and
he gathers the fruits of the earth without sensati
ons of gratitude, or a spirit of adoration to any
inviiible cause. Such habitual gratifications ex
cite no favorable sentiments refpei r ting the Deity,
because in fad: they excite no reflections at all.
Man feenis to claim all tliefe things as a natural
right, When we view the opponre fide of the
picture and find a savage afflic'ted with evil, his
temper is roused and his mind becomes inquisi
tive. Some invisible being is supposed to direct
in the management of such dark scenes. Hence
theGodof a lavage is generally pofiefled of stern,
implacable attributes.
LETTERS,
Written in Holland, in the Tear M,DCC,L\XX f
By His Excellency
THE VICE-PRESIDENT of the United States.
LETTER H.
Amsterdam, Oct. j, 17S0.
S I R,
YOUR firft proposition is, " to prove, by Jfrik
" l^at a " implacable hatred and averjion
" reigns throughout America
In answer to this, I beg leave to fay, that the
Americans are animated by higher principles, and
better and stronger motives, than hatred and aver
sion. They universally aspire after a free trade
with all the commercial world, instead of that
mean monopoly, in which they were (hackled by
Great Britain, to the disgrace and mortification
of America, and to the injury of all the veil of
Europe; to whom it seems as if God and na
ture intended that so great a magazine of pro
ductions, the raw materials of manufactures, so
great a source of commerce, and forich anurfery
of feainen, as America is, should be open. They
dcfpife, Sir, they disdain the idea of being again
nionopolifed by any one nation whatsoever : And
this contempt is at leafl as powerful a motive of
adtion as any hatred whatsoever.
Moreover, Sir, they consider themselves con
tending for the purest principles of liberty, civil
and religious ; for those forms of government un
der the faith of which their country was planted ;
and for those great improvements of them which
have been made by their constitutions. 1 hey
consider themselves not only as contending for
these great blessings, but against the greatest evils
thatany country ever fuffered ; for they know, if
they were to be deceived by England, to break
their union among themselves, and their faith
with their allies, they would-ever after be in the
(p gztttf. cff^(yku^uus.
SATURDAY, October 17, 17^9.
power of England, who would bring them into
the most abject submission to the government ot
a Parliament, the most corrupted in the world,
m which they would have no voice nor influence,
at threethoufand miles distance from them.
But if hatred must come into consideration, I
know not how to prove their hatred better than by
fnewing the provocations they have had to hatred.
If tearing up from the foundation those forms
of government under which they were born and
educated, and thrived and prospered, to the in
finite emolument of England—if imposing taxes
upon them, or endeavouring to doit, for twenty
years, without their consent—is commencing hos
tilities upon them— burning their towns—butch
ering their people—deliberately starving prifon
ers—ravifliing their women—exciting hosts of In
dians to butcher and fcalpthem—and purchasing
Germans to destroy them, and hiring negro ser
vants to murder their masters ; —lf all these, and
many other things as bad, are not provocations
enough to hatred, J would request Mr. Calkoen
to tell uie what is or can be. All iliefe horrors
the English have pracftifed in every part of Ame
rica, from Boftoai to Savanna.
3. Your second proportion is " to flxe-ui that th 'n
" '' general—at Icpjl so general, that the Tories art
" infjfmall a number, (itid of such little force, thai
" they are counted as nothing."
If Mr. Cai.koen would believe me, I could
teftify as a witness ; 1 could describe all the sources,
all the grounds, springs, principles, and motives tc
Toryism through the continent. This would lead
me into great lengths ; and the refultofsll would
be, my fine ere opinion that the Tories throughout
the whole continent do not amount to a twentieth
part of the people. I will not, however obtrude my
testimony, nor my opinion : 1 will appeal to wit
nelles who cannot be fufpecled, General Bur
go yne and General llosve. Burgoyne has pub
lished a narrative of his Proceedings, in which
he speaks of tlie Tories. I left the pamphlet
at Paris, but it may eaiily be had from London.
General Howe has also published a narrative re
lative to his conduct in America. Page 49, Gene
ral Howe fays, " The only attempt bv bodies of
men tp form themselves in arms, and to aflift in
fupprelfing the rebellion, happened iu -'mi h-Ca
rolina, in the spring of 1776, when it was absolute
ly impossible for nie to give alii (lance to the insur
rection. The plan was concerted bei wren 1 fettle -
ment of Highland emigrants, and a body of Ame
ricans in that Province, distinguished by the name
of Loyalifls. (He should have said Regulators.)
They engaged to obey the orders of Governor
Martin, who proposed they fhonld operate in
favor of the troops from Europe, under Earl Cor n
wallis. The Loyalists promised jooo, the High
landers 700 men. The former infilled upon their
aflembling immediately ; the latter uged the ex
pediency of waiting the arrival of the British
troops, but yielded to the importunity of the loy
alifls, and repaired in arms to the place of ren
dezvous, stronger than the flipulated compliment.
The loyalifls, instead of 5000, did not afiemble a
twentith part of that number ; and,two compa
niesof these deserted, vpon the near approach of
the rebels. The Highlanders flood their ground,
and fought bravely, but being overpowered, were
defeated with considerable loss, and forced to
disperse.
" My letter of the twentieth of December, 1 776,
was written before the affair of Trenton, and I
could have 110 reason to fufpeift the fidelity of
those who caiue in to us from Moninouth ; but I was
soon undeceived. Many, very many, of these loy
alifls were a short time afterwai'ds taken in arms
against us, and others were killed with my protec
tions in their pockets. In the pockets of the killed
and prifonevs, were also found certificates of those
very men having fubferibed a declaration of alle
giance, in conference of the proclamation of the
King's Coinmiflioners for a general indemnity.
These are notorious fa<fts.
<< Various offers of raising men were made to
me, nor did I decline any of those offers that
brought with them the least profped: of success :
but I must add, that very few of them were ful
filled in the extent proposed.
" Mr. Olivf.r Delancey, who was reputed
to be the most likely man in New-York to induce
the loyalifls of that province to join the King's
troops, was appointed a Brigadier-General, and
authorised to raile three battalions, to confifl of
1500 privates, placing at the head of each the
moftrefpetftablecliara<sers, recommended asfucli
by himfelfandbv Governor Try on. Every possi
ble effort was used by those gentlemen, not only in
the diftritflsipoffelledbythe King's troops, but by
em ploying persons to go through the conn try, and
invite the well-affected to come in. Several ol
the officers (as I have since been informed) anxi
\_PubliJhed on IVeancfday and Saturday
oils to compleat their corps, fought for recruits
even among the prisoners, who were then very
numerous, and ventured to hold out to them the
temptations of pay, liberty, and pardon. Not
withltandingall tliefe efforts and encouragements,
Brigadier General Delancey, at the opening of
the campaign in i 777, initead of i£oo, hadraifed
only 597
" Mr. Courtland Skinner, who was ac
knowledged to pofiefs considerable influence in
the Jerfies, where he had served the office of
Attorney-General with great integrity and repu
tation, was also appointed a Brigadier-General,
and authorised to raise five batallions, to confilt
of 2500 privates, under the command of gentle
men of the country, nominated by himfelf. The
fame efforts were made as for the raising of De
lancey's corps ; but at the opening of the cam
paign of 1 777, Brigadier-General Skinner's num
bers amounted only to 517, towards his expected
battallions of 2 500.
" 111 November 1777, Brigadier-General Dc
lancey's corps encreafed to 69}, and Brigadier-Ge
neral Skinner's, to §>59. In May 1 778, their pro
gress was so flow, that the firft: had only advanced
to 707, the latter to 1101.
" Several other corps were offered toberaifed,
and were accepted, in the Winter of 1776, mak
ing in the whole thirteen, to confill of 6,500 men,
including the Brigades of Delancey and Skinner,
Butin May, 1 778, the whole number in all these
thirteen corps, amounted to only 3,609, little
more than half the proposed compliment, and of
these Only a final 1 proportion were Americans.
" Upon our taking pofleflion of Philadelphia,
the fame, and indeed greater encouragements,
were held out to the people of Pennsylvania. Mr.
William Allen, a gentleman who was fuppoi'ed
to have great family influence in that province;
Mr. Chalmers, much refpecT;ed in the three low
er counties on Delaware, and in Marylad ; and
Mr. Clifton, the chief of the Roman Catholic
perluafion, of whom there were faitl to be many
in Philadelphia, as well as in the rebel army, ser
ving againlt their inclinations ; these gentlemen
were appointed commandants of corps, toreccive
and form for service all the well-affected that
could be obtained. And what was the success of
these efforts ? In May, 1 778, when I left Ame
rica, Col. Allen hadraifed only 152 rank and file ;
Col. Chalmers 336 ; and Col. Clifton 180 ; which,
together with three troops oflight dragoons, con
fitting of 132 troopers, 174 real volunteers from
Jersey, under Colonel Vandyke, amounting in
the whole to 974 men, conflituted all the force
that could be colleifted in Pennsylvania, after the
molt indefatigable exertions during eight months.
"To make the conclusion as easy as poflible, L
shall state a very strong fa<fl, tolhew how far the
inhabitants were anxious to promote the king's
service, even without carrying arms.
" As soon as we were in poii'eflioh of Philadel
phia, my intention was to fortify it in such a man
ner, as that it might be tenable by afmall number
of men, whilst the main army should keep the field
and act again!! Gen. Washington. To effec
tuate this purpose, I sent orders from German
-1 own to the chief engineer,to conftrucfl redoubts,
and to form theneceflary lines of communication.
That the work might be expedited, and the labor
of the soldiers spared, I atthe fame time directed
him to employ the inhabitants, and pay them
eight pence a day, besides a ration of fait provi
sions each, without which, I was convinced, they
could not have been persuaded to have worked at
all. Mr. Galloway, whom I had previously
talked with upon the fubje<ft, had allured me there
would be no difficulty in finding 500 men for this
business ; and, I presume, he exerted himfelf to
fulfil the expectations he had given me. But
with all the afliduity of that gentleman, and all
the means made use of by the chief engineer,
the whole number that could be prevailed on to
handle the pickaxe and spade, for the construction
of the redoubts and abbatis, amounted, each day,
upon an average, to 110 more than between seventy
and eighty men."
I have qiioted to you General Howe's words ;
and one would think this was fufficient to fliew
how much or liow little zeal there is for the Bri
tifli cause in North America. When we consider,
that in the period here mentioned, rlie Englifli
army had been in pofleflion of Boston, Newport,
New-York and Philadelphia, and that they had
inarched through the Jerlies, part of Maryland,
and Pennsylvania ; and with all their arts, bribes,
threats and flatteries, which Gen. Howe calls
their efforts and exertions, they were able to ob
tain so few recruits, and very few of these Ameri
cans ; I think that any impartial man mufl. be con
vinced that the aversion and antipathy to the Bri
tiflicaufe is very general, so general,that the to
ries are to be accounted but a very little thing.T he adJrefles which they have obtained to the
King and his Generals, when their army was in
Bolton, Newport, New-York, Phifadelphia, Sa
vanna and Charleston, fliew the fame thins. It
is very well known, that every art of flattery
and ot terror, was always used to obtain subscri
bers to tliefe addrefles. ' Yet the miserable num
bers that they have obtained, and the still more
•lefpicable character of moll of tliefe final 1 num
bers, shew that the British cause is held in very
low elteem. Even in Charleston, the capital of
a Province,which contains two hundred tlioufand
whites, they were able to obtain only two bun
dled and ten subscribers, and among these there
is not one name that I ever remember to have
heard before.
I am sorry I have not Burgoyne's narrative ;
which shews, in the fame point of light, the re
sources the Englirti are likely to find in the tories,
to be nothing more than a sure means of getting
rid of a great number of their guineas.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your humble servant,
JOHN ADAMS.
To learn the present state of America, it is fuf
ficient to read the public papers. The present
state of Great Britain and its dependencies may
be learned the fame way. The omnipotence of
the British Parliament,and the omnipotence of the
British navy, are like to go the fame way.
MR. CALKOEN.
JOURNAL of the FIRST SESSION of the
SENATE of the UNITED STATES.
(CONTINUED.)
Thursday, March 19, 1789.
The Hon. William Patterson, from the State of New-
Jersey, appeared and took his feat.
fr id a t , March 20.
Pie fen t as yesterday : Adjourned to 11 o'clock to-morrow
morning.
SATURDAY, March 21.
Present as yesterday : The Hon. Ri chard Basset t, from the
State of Delaware, appeared and took his feat. The number fuf
ficient to constitute a quorum not appearing—adjourned from Jay
to day, until
Saturday, March 28.
Present as on the 21ft : The Hon. Jonathan Elmer, from
the State oi Ncw-Jerfey, appeared and took his feat.
The number fufficient to couftitute a quorum not appearing, ad
journed from day to day, until April the 6th ; when the Hon.
Richard Henry Lee, from the State of Virginia, appeared and
took his feat in the Senate.
MONDAY, April 6.
The Senate affeinbled : Present,
From New-Hampshire, \ " r - and
Mr. WINCATE,
Massachusetts, Mr. Strong,
Conneaicut, < Mr. Johnson, and
Mr. hLLSWORTH,
New-Jerky, 5 " r - £aterson, Mnd
J ( Mr. Elmer,
Pennsylvania, 5 r - Mac lay, and
( Mr. Mor r is,
Delaware, Mr. Bassitt,
Virginia, Mr. Lee,
Georgia, Mr. Few,
Being a quorum, confiding of a majority of the whole number
of Senators of the United States.
The Credentials of the afore-mentioned Members weie read
and ordered to be filed.
The Senate proceeded by ballot to the choice of a President, for
the sole purpose of opening and counting the votes for President
of the United States.
JOHN LANGDON, Esquire, was defied.
Ordered, That Mr. Ellsworth inform the House of Repre
sentatives that a quorum ot the Senate is formed—that a President
is elefled for the<ole purpose of opening the certificates and count
ing the votes of the Electors of the several States in the choice of a
President and Vice President of the United States ; and that the
Senate is now ready in the Senate Chamber, to proceed, in the pre
tence of the House, to discharge that duty : And that the Senate
have rppointed one of their Members to fit at the Clerk's table to
make a lift of the votes as they shall be declared ; submitting it to
the wisdom of the House to appoint one or more of their members
tor the like purpose.
Mr. Boudinot, from the House of Representatives, commu
nicated the following verbal message to the Senate :
" Mr. President,
I AMdireftedbytheHoufeof Representatives to inform the
oenate, that the House is ready forthwith to meet the Senate to
attend the opening and countingthe votes of the Electors for Presi
dent and Vice President of the United States."-And he withdrew.
Ordered, That Mr. Paterson be a tellei on the part of the
Senate.
The Speaker and the House of Representatives attended in the
Senate Chamber, for the purpose exprefled in the message deliver
ed by Mr. Ei lsworth—And after some time withdrew.
The Senate then proceeded by ballot to the choice of a Presi
dent of their body pro tempore.
John Langdon, Esq. was duly ele&ed.
The President ele&ed for the purpose of countingthe votes de
clared to the Senate, that the Senate and House of Representatives
had met and that he, in their presence, had opened and counted
the votes of the Elettors for President and Vice President of the
Lnitcd Stages—which were as follows :—
W —' O I—l1 — 15 — 1 £/><-_ r*s
£ °£225.0 00 >°w
>>w 58 " z ' 2c:2 50
y ~ 2 50 ° 1,3 1 w °
«U>„c wH >> r^ tII
z H * ° s ■' •" i °
5? w
- H x
Q Q W w O » ~ *"" M "
50 2 Hp - _ W * .P 2
52 - P • °
t*l x*> w 00 • H H
L' w >f> L; o o o
W ►Q *& z 2
' & * - ~ -
M M M
JiT JiT ►H 1
\ T ew-Hampfhire, 55-----....
Massachusetts, 10 10 ....... .
Conneflicut, 752-.-..
New-Jersey, 6!^ 5 ! '
Pennsylvania, 10 8.-2---.
Delaware, 3--o.___
Maryland, 6-..-6 - --II"
Virginia, 10 5 - , t - 3 - . I I I
South-Carolina, 7---1--6
Georgia, 5 \ \ ~ t
6 9 34 2946362! 1 1
Whereby it appears, that
GEORGE WASHINGTON', Esq.
was unanimously eletted President, and
JOHN ADAMS, Es e .
was duly ele&ed Vice President,
Ol the United States of America.
Mr. Madison came from the Hou{e of Representatives with
the following verbal meflage :
" Mr. President,
I am dire&ed by the House of Rcpielentatives to inform the
Senate, that the House have agreed, that the notifications of the
election of the President and of the Vice Prcfident of the United
Mates, ihould be made by such persons, and in such manner, as the
Senate Ihall be pleased to dirett."
Whereupon the Senate appointed Charles Thompson, Esq.
to notify Georce Washington, Esq. of his elcaion to the
Ulhce ol President of the United States of.America, and Mr
S Bou R N "• to notif V J OHN Adams, Esq. of hiseleftion
lothe Olficeot Vice President ot the said United States.
A letter from James Duane, Esq. was read, enclosing resolu
tions of the Mayor, Aldermen, and Commonalty of the city of
New-York, tendering to Congress the use of the City Hall
Adjourned.
(To be continued.)
THE NATIONAL MONITOR. —No. XXII.
Freedom an exile—forc'd the world to roam,
In these bleit States, at lad hath found a home ;
For her abode, we've rear'd a noble pile,
In which -her presence Hiall reward our toil ;
Here fate from treason, anarchv and ftrife,
If we are wife Ihe'll pass her future life.
THERE is a natural propensity in mankind to
find fault—more particularly with the admini
,. at ' 01 . 1 public affairs.—ln free governments
this lpirit is peculiarly apt to shew itfelf : The
citizens, while they enjoy the high privilege of
electing their civil officers, seem to think that a
right to criminate is as eflbntial to their happi
ness, as the right ot free fuffrage.
There is in all communities a proportion of
leftlefs, carping, felf-fufficient characters, who
never think that any thing is well done, that they
have no share in directing : Such persons will
on all occasions depreciate the merit, arraign the
conduct, and impeach the motives of thole who
ai e in office—and the world will never go right
till placed under their infallible guidance !—A
small degree of attention to the general princi
ples, the part conduct, and present manoeuvres of
such persons, will afford an antidote to the mil
chief which might otherwise result from their poi
sonous insinuations.
There is another class of beings whose motives
to nnfehief, tho quite different from the above,
are productive of as great, if not greater evils to
society :—Thefe are your daring, ambitious fpi
lits, who pofTefling a vain confidence of their own
superior merit and abilities, will never let their
neighbors, and fellow-citizens, live in peace, and
enjoy security and happiness under a o'ood go
vernment,fo long as they conceive themselves ne<r
lected. If, under the favor of Heaven the public
mind can be tranquilized—if the people can be
brought to make so jufl an estimate of the blef
iings that will flow in upon them, under the ope
ration of the new fylteni of government, as to re
ject the counsels and opinions of unprincipled
men at lead for a season—their machinations in
future will meet with such general contempt, as
to discourage the molt hardy and inveterate vo
taiies of confufion in the pursuit of their pro
jects. It is devoutly to be wished that the good
sense of the people may lead them to give the
government of their own election a fair chance
—that we may know whether it is possible to en
joy the oft-defcribed, but seldom-realized advan
tages, that are faidto be connected with leading
a quiet and peaceable life, under the auspices of
the molt perfect state of Liberty, that is compati
ble with the existence of any legal restraints.
We have long enough been tofledon the waves
of uncertainty and perplexity- We have lon<r
enough been fluctuating between jarring and
poling systems Our purposes have been broken
off—our plans of trade have proved abortive—our
manufactures have languiffied— our agriculture
has been support—our rich men have
shrunk from public exertions, and their wealth
lias retreated out of circulation, for want of con
fidence in the public faith, and from the dread of
annihilation by tender laws, and other plans of
iniquitous import :—This has diminished the
quantum of the circulating medium— while the
mechanic and laborer, (their hands not being
fufficient for their support) have been compelled
to quit their country to find employment Sure
ly it is time for us to be at peace among ourselves
to coalesce under fomc fyflem that ffiall not be
subject to those vibrations that are productive of
that Free? threat . e . n , de P OI),llat i on - or the loss of
belt blond f' ,Ch hath C ° ft the tre asure and
belt blood ot our counti v.
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES
Begun and held at the City of JW York, on Wednesday the Fourth
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An ACT to provide for the payment of the IN
VALID PENSIONERS qf L ? United States
BE it ena(led by the Senate and House of Re
prefentativss of the United States of Anuria in Col
grefi ajfembled, 1 hat the military pensions which
vpk " gra " te and P aid b .r the States respec
tively, in pursuance of the acts of the United
States in Congress aflembled, to the invalids who
were wounded and dilUbled during the war, shall
b: continued to be paid by tlieU'nitci ,
the fourth day of march last, f or the spa"' i' 018
year, under such regulations as the Prefij °'' K '
the United States may direct. e «uent ot
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHI fvpco.
JOHN ADAMS, Viu-Pref,dent of the United S;Z '
Approved, September 28. ijgq ~ h '" 1 ' "J" icr " °J ">c S :r .^„ y
GEORGE WASHING lON, Indent of the United S hlcl .
In pursuance of the above recited law ins
matiou is hereby given to all the invalid peifin,,!"
ot the United States, that the amount of one S
Pension from the fourth day of March laVl' n u
paid to them, or their attornies refpec'tiveh
two equal payments, the firft of which will Z
made on the fifthday of March, one thou'find
seven hundred and ninety ; and the second on he
W da y , o y u " e , foll °w,iig ; at such place, i„ eac h
State, and by' such perfonsas ft,all hereafter in
season be publicly made known
The payments will be made agreeably to the
following regulations : To wit- '
The returns which have been or ft,all be made
to the Secretary for the department of War bv t\u>
several States of the Pensions which have been
granted, and paid by them refpeAively will tn
gether with the vouchers herein required be con'
fidered as the evidence whereon the payment; are
to be made. r J c
Every application for payment must be ac-om
panied by the following vouchers.
1 ft. The certificate given by the State fpecifv.
ing that the person pofleffing it, is in fact an in
valid, and ascertaining the fun, to which as ftd,
he is annually entitled.
2dly. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form : To w«:-A. B. came before me one of
the Justices for the county of in the State
of and made oath that he is the fame A B
to whom the original certificate in his pofleilion
was given, of which the following is a copy (the
certificate given by the State to be recited )
That heferved in (regiment or vc'flel) at
the time he was disabled, and that he now re
fidesinthe and county of and has
resided there for the last years, previous to
which relided in
In cafe an invalid fliould apply for paymentbv
an attorney, the said attorney mult, besides the
certificate and oath before recited, produce afpe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the followL
form : lA. B. ot county of State
of do hereby constitute and appoint C. D.
»Ny lawful attorney to receive inmv
behalf of (the firft or second moiety) ofmy
annual Pension, as an invalid of the United States,
from the fourth day of March, one thoafapdfe
ven hundred and eighty-nine.
In teftiinony whereof I have hereunto set
my hand and seal, this
Signed and sealed
in the presence of
Acknowledged before me
Applications of executors or adminiftratorsmuft
be accompanied with legal evidence of their re-
Ipective offices, and also of the time the invalid
died, whose Pension they may claim.
By Command of the Prelident of the United
States of America.
H. KNOX, Secretary for tht
Department of War.
War-Office, Oct. 13, 1739.
C The Printers throughout the United States are requefed to in
fer! this information for the benefit of the brave men who have Jewel]
[ufferci in the cause of their country.
EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS.
VIENA, JULY 22.
Letters from Mohillon, on the Niefter, mention
a (mart engagement which has taken place be
tween four divisions ofhuflars of" the army under
General Kanu nilcoi and 3000 Turks from the gar
rison of Bender, in which the Turks were obliged
to return to L hat fortrefs, with the loss of many
of their men, who were taken prisoners.
PARIS, JULY 31.
Every part of the Baflile was searched by a com
mittee from the Town-House, accompanied by
the turnkeys, that 110 poor wretch might be for
fot and left in the caverns and dungeons of that
readful place of confinement, which is now le
velled to the ground; and, itisfaid, a noble ball
will be built on the spot for the Aflembly of the
Deputies of the French Nation. -The papers
found in the Baflile, though shocking to liuijwiii
ty, are still very interesting, and will bring ma
ny curious anecdotes to light; there are among
the reft 140 folio volumes of Lettres de Cachet.
LONDON, AUGUST J.
Thebrave Fufileer of the French guards, who
fir ft ascended the walls of the Baflile on the 14 t ' 1
°f July, who was decorated by the croft of Saint
Louis, which had appertained to the Governoi 0
the fortrefs, isfince dead of his wounds, and has
been publicly interred.
August 8. To the Marquisdela Fayette, niay
the present emancipation of the citizen! 01 ti £
commonwealth of trance, be more jnftly attribute *
than to any other of their patriotic
His longrefidence in England and America ga»
himjuft ideas of government —and he has -taught tlie relative rights of the Ruler and the
ruled, in the continual correspondence he has kept
up -with his adopted father, General
ton the hero and the statesman,
«« Who with enlightened patriots met,
" On Schuylkill's banks in close divan,
" And wing'd that arrow Cure as fate,
44 Which " afcertain'd the rights of man.''
August 9. Baron de Bezenval is to be tried
immediately. He is in fafe custody. He was ge
neral of the King's troops in the district of Paris
at the time of the revolution ; was in all the se
crets of the court party, and was the person who
wrote to the Governor of the Baftile to defend the
garrison but for twelve hours, and all would be
iafe. The people are most inveterateagainft him.
M. de Bezenval was second in command under
M.deßroglio, a particular favorite of the Queen,
with whom he had the confidence to remain until
the King returned from Paris. It was this gentle
man who peevishly observed to his uiajefty, that
as there was no further occasion for him, he would
call his carriage, and go home ; to which an old
nobleman replied, " Your carriage ! apoft-chaife
and eight you mean." It now appears, that for
his own fafety he should have followed the old
veteran's advice.
According to letters from Nantz, received on
Thursday, eleven vellels arrived there from Ame
rica, the 29th of last month, laden with wheat and
other corn. Their cargoes were disposed of the
morning after their arrival, and the ihips were
unlading as fact as poflible,to return home for frefh
cargoes, grain being verv plentiful in the Ame
rican States.
August 10. Accounts from Brest, transmitted
to the National Afl'einbly, mention that the in
habitants, uniting with the military and the ad
miralty, guard that valuable dock and harbour
with the utmost vigilance, as well as thefea ports
on the coasts of Brittanny and Normandy ; not
from apprehension of their friends the generous
En<difh, but to prevent any black acT: of treachery
on the part of their wicked and implacable inter
nal enemies. They request a chief to be sent them,
and express awifhthatit lhouldbe M. D'Eftaing.
The Aflembly have consequently seconded their
defice by a deputation to the King.
All advices from Vienna agree that the revolu
tion in Franee has entirely changed the politics
of the imperial cabinet, and a speedy peace is now
the general expe«ftation; the flame of freedom is
spreading faftinthe Low Countries, and it is high
time for Joseph to look at home.
The inquisition is now the only grand engine
of tyranny remaining in Europe. But that is very
far from pofleffing the power it formerly had :
the late King abridged them so far, that every
proceeding is obliged to be laid before him, and
no person punished without full proof of the
fact.—By a gentleman who lately resided in Spain,
we are allured that the inquisition is now little
more than a bugbear ; there has been no Auto-de-
Fe for many years. The last one worth mention
ing was above a century ago, in the year 1680.
N E W-Y O R K, October 17.
By the SANDWICH PACKET, Capt. , who
left Falmouth the 7th ult. we have received
Papers to the First September—from which we
have time to fele<flonly the following articles.
PARIS, August 27.
WE are come to the fatal crisis at last—bread is very scarce :
To have a two pound loaf, or half a four pound one, the
maids are forced to go and stand before the bake-houses at four
o'clock in the morning, and wait there in. their turn ; each of them
receives a number, according to priority of time. So equal a
diftin&ion now prevails in the anti-rhambers of men in power,
or diftinguiftied personages ; if any body, for instance, presents
himfelf to the Marquis de la Fayette, a number is given him, and
he is obliged to wait till that number is called. It has lately hap
pened that a person has been three days before his turn came : Such
has been the hurry of business with that General, whofc esteem
and admiration are daily increasing.
Mr. Brissot de Warvilie has presented to the Hotel de
Ville his new plan for the municipality of the town of Paris.
The plan of municipality has been read to all the districts, and
with some few exceptions appears to be generally approved of.
Children, always driving to imitate grown persons, are con
stantly parading on a Sunday or holiday, the streets and gardens
fcf Paris, in a kind of militia-patrole. In order to have every
thing compleat, they were carrying last Sunday in the Luxemborg
'wo dead cats fixed on poles.
The celebrated painter, M. David, has been advised not to
fend his picture of Brutus, facrificing his two sons, to the exhibi
tion this year. The fame advice has been given to M. Barbier,
who has drawn the portrait of the Grenadier who hoiftcd the
colors on one of the Baftile-towers.
Some balls have been found in the walls of the Baftile, levelled
against that tremendous castle, by the great Conde, in fche minor
ity of Lew is XlVth. They have been sent, by the engineers, to
the Marquis de la Fayette, with the following compliments—
The present we offer you, Sir, is worthy of you only ; it is neither
gold, nor jewels : It is 'iron and balls ; balls that have been dis
covered in the ruins of the cave of despair, and the dun
cion of grief and bondage : Vouchlafe to accept them; the
spoils of despotism are the noblefl: trophies one can dedicate to
tiie citizen, and the hero, whom public liberty has found for a
defender in both hemispheres."
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, Augujl 23.
Thei6th, 17th, and 18th articles of the Declaration ef Rights,
from the 6th bureau, contained the liberty of religious opinions.
These were examined this morning. All the members agreed
that opinions ought to be free; the difficulty was, to know how
far public worlhip should be so. The fallowing questions were
debated with great warmth, and rendered the arguments extreme
ly interesting on both fides :—Cau opinions be free when the pub
lic worftiip is not ? Or is that free when liberty is not equal for
\ a ll ? Can there be a predominancy or preference of a part,without
there being some obftruclion or servitude in the other ?" Viscount
Mi r abe au was of opinion, that the liberty of religious opinions
(honld be separated fronj wiiat concerns the public worship ; the
former to be mentioned m th~ Declaration of Rights, the latter
in the Conftitutiou. The Ke'lorof Vieu'C Posflange laid, a
religion, which was charity itlelt, ought to be inclined to tolera
tion, and was even for admitting different manners of Worship,
provided they did ncjt trouble the public order. M. Raband de
St. Edennf. rose, and refling hisargument on the very firit words
of the Declaration of Rights, " Men are born and remain equal in
rights," concluded thatthey had an equal right to,the liberty of
their opinion, and public worship. There can be no liberty, fays
he, without that of opinions, nor anv liberty of religious opinions
without that ol worship. If the predominant worship dominates
otherwifc than by truth and persuasion, all others are oppreflTed
and no longer free." The Bishop of Lyda spoke very sensibly
on toleration, but (hewed the neceflity of setting some bounds
to if. He introduced the examples of England and Holland,
wheie Protestantism was the predominant religion, in the mid ft of
liberty which is highly refpetted. " How is that liberty highly
refpecked in England, fhrcwdlv remarked a member, when a man
who celebrates a mass is hung ?" There would be no end were
we to report all the changes, alterations, and even new articles
that were proposed. The Prcfident read the following article,
which forms the tenth of the Declaration, and was approved of by
a majority of the members. " No person js to be molelled for
his opinions, not even for his religious ones, provided his manifeft
ing them does not trouble the public ones established by the law."
The amendments constituted two thirds of the sentence. Religious,
was the firft ; even the second ; provided his manifefling them does
not trouble the public order, thethird : and ejlablijhid by the law, the
fourth. Theie difcuflions plainly evince that the Clergy, aremaft
ers of the field now, and in a specious manner they can get any
amendment pafled, one after another.
M. N T ECKARdid not go to the Aflembly vefterdav, on account
of hi< health. He sent the following apology : I had presumed
too much, Mr. President, on my strength and my health, in an
nouncing to you that I (hould wait this day on your honorable
aflembly. I shall address to you to-morrow the rcfle&ions I in
tended to read. Deign, Sir, to accept the homage of my excuses,
and bethe inter preter of my regret."
M. de Montmorency proposed the 13th article for the De
claration, containing a power of changing the Constitution after a
limited time, as Solon and Locke were of opinion. The debates
on this fubjett were postponed till the next meeting.
L O tt D O N* Sept. I*
Let those who indulge themselves in ridicule of the French As
sembly consider, firit
That they have abolished the game laws that still difgface Bri
tain.
Thatthey have abolished tythes, that in every part of the south
ern kingdoms, as welt as in Ireland, grind the industrious yeo
manry, and oppress agriculture.
That they have abolished all pensions, except those conferred
for a&ual services rendered to the country.
That they have made it an article that no Minister nor civil
placeman (hall be permited to fit and vote in the National Aflen^bly.
Thatthey have abolished all heriots, fines, recoveries, and other
rights of fuperiority,,which are still in this kingdom the fubjett
of inceflant hardship and litigation.
That they have declared every citizen, whatever may be his re
ligious persuasions, eligible to every office of State, and to every
honor in the gift of the crown.
Without refering to the grand revolution which they have ac
complished, who will aflert that these things are frivolous ?
DIFFERENCE OF TIMES.
In 1655, w h?n the Parliament of Paris were a (Tern bled on ac
count of some edicts, Louis XIV, who was at that time not above
seventeen years of age, went from Vincennes in a hunting dress,
attended by his whole Court, and entering the Parliament cham
ber in jack boots and a whip in his hand, made use of these very
words, accompanied by such a look, that, as a French historian
remarks, " his eyes spoke more fenlibly than his mouth."
" The mifchietsyour Ademblv produces are well known. I
command von to break up those you have begun upon my edi£ts—
and, Mr. President, I forbid you to permit these Aflemblies, and
any of you to demand them."
The command or conttow/that Louis XV I. hasonthe Three Estates
of the Kingdom, is too well known to need any comment.
The King has given fix thousand muskets to the city guard of
Paris.
The papers further state that the Prince de Cobourg has gained
a victory over the Turks, in which thev left 1600 dead on the
field. The Turks also loft 100 waggons loaded with military
stores. That two capital houses have failed at Peterfburgh, for
one million roubles. That the National Aflembly of France
have agreed to a bill of rights, arid resolved that all inferior officers
of government should be equally responsible as the heads of it ; and
that the Chief should be alone excepted. That Count Lally
had proposed, the Aflembly of 1200 members being unweildy,
that it would beadvifeable to reduce the whole representation to
300 or 400 members. That the Swedes have beat the Ruffians
in the late naval engagement. —Buckles, rings, &c. arc made in
Paris, set with ftoncs takeh from the ruins ot the Baftilc ; and are
called " Conjlitution buckles, &c. The triumph of liberty in France
is now conndered as certain: —That she is spreading her benign in
fluences—The fubje&s ol the Bilhop of Liege has demanded and
obtained a recognition of their rights.—The inhabitants of A
vignon request to be treed hom the dominion of Rome—The
cities and towns in the Austrian Netherlands talk of uniting them
selves with France.
That Spain also from its renowned honor, forefight, and deli
berate courage, may be expe&cd to begin a political reformation.
Repeated accounts from Seville, Barcelona and Lisbon prove be
yond a doubt that the feeds of liberty are planted in the opinions
of the gentry, nobility, and common people of those places.—
Two thirds of the Baftile are down, and 700 men labor from fix
in the morning to fix in the evening to demolish the remainder.
The King of France has lately had a suit of cloaths made which
are the Paris militia uniform.-—.The funds of St. Luke's Hofpita),
London,amount to ninety thousand eight hundred sixty four pounds
two (hillings and ten pence, cxclufive of the buildings, See. The
Grand Vizier has lately been beheaded at Constantinople, and his
property, amounting to one million sterling, confifeated : His
wife, mother, brother, and filler, were put to the torture, in order
to discover their riches ! ! May theJire ojf LibertyJoon be enkindled in
this region of infernal despotism : Great disturbances and outrages
appear to have taken place in various parts of France, but then
they appear to have been perpetrated by a banditti of stragglers :
The provinces are taking effectual measures to fupprefsthem : The
provincial aflemblies are pouring in their addrefles to the National
Aflembly; and heartily joining them in all their plans for efta
bliihing the freedom of the country ; and eradicating every
vestige of feudal tyranny.
BOSTON, OCTOBER 10.
A letter from a gentleman, a native of Halifax, to his friend
inthis town, Sept. 16. 1789, shews, in the following observations,
that even in the chilly regions of Nova-Scotia, the ideas of liberty
are beginning to be entertained, viz.—" By the papers we find,
that the French are making (till greater and more rapid strides
towards a revolution. What a glorious political light have the
Americansticld forth to the benighted Europeans, hitherto (tum
bling in the darkness of bigotry—that fatal veil, which has long
prevented the bright beams of knowledge from visiting their
minds. The bieflings of American freedom seem already to spread
its influence far and wide ; doubtless its national chara&er will be
held in high estimation by all succeeding age?, and its name rc-
Cered by generations yet unborn." «
The regiment Which piques itfelf on being the oldest military
corps not only in France, but in the world, claiming to have ex
isted as a body since the days ot Pontius Pilate, to whom the re
giment had served as guards, has rcfufed to serve against the peo
ple. When questioned on that head by their officers, they laid,
" Our regiment has always borne the glorio6s nnme of the regi
ment without spot orftain; and it ihall be our care never to make
it forfeit so honorable a name, by imbruing our hands in the blood
of our countrymen.
We read, in a London paper of the Bth of August, that Mr.
Sheridan has openly acrufed Mr. Pitt of having employed
more than two millions in fomenting the intestine div.fions ot
France If the Miniftcr is thus accused, and can not shew how
that sum has been employed which is deficient in the trealury, it
will be no longer difficult to account for the very great anxiety of
the Duke of Dorset.
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 17.
Last Thurlday morning the President of the United States
fat out OTI his tour east, in his chariot and four, accompanied by
T. Lear, Esq. and Major Jackson, two of his Secretaries, on
horseback;
The Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of the Trea
sury, and the Secretary at War efcortcd the Prclidcnt a lew miles
on his journey.
To the innumerable instances of more than paternal attention to
the intercftsofthe United States, theprefent journey is now added ;
and the universal approbation of the meaiure, expressed by all
ranks of citizens, affords the happiest prefagesol its being attend
ed with those salutary confequenccs, the hope of which 01 iginated
the design.
Not for the purposes of empty parade, or to acquirc the ap
plaufeof gaping multitudes—Not for the display of royal pageantry
and courtly niagnificencc—Not to exa£l the homage ot a depressed
and impoverished people, or the blind adulation of a host
of slaves—Not to interrupt the labors of the industrious iri
their fcvcral occupations, or to disturb the tranquility of domestic
life, by being attended with a splendid mefcenaly military guard.
—No.—Far other objects give rife to the prelent excursion. Salem
theprote&ion of Heaven, and the affe£lionsof a grateful people,he
wants, he has no other guard ; being attended only by his Secreta
ries, and a few fcrvants; and though the spontaneous and affe£fion
ate relpe&s of an.enlightened community arc the richcft reward of
patrioufm, yet we have every reafonto suppose, that the President
will receive it as the highell evidence of attachment to his person
for the people todilpenle with every species of parade that may
prove inconvenient to themselves, or may interfere with the prune
obje£l of his journey.
fcxtratt oj a letter from Richmond, Virginia, Oil. 7.
We had a feverc froft here on the night of the lft inft. wliich de
stroyed the greatest part of the Tobacco which was not cut : Some
suppose there will be near halt the crop loft through the State.
" Let the public be forewarned that the
time is now come, in which jealousy will begin to
throw out her fufpicionsi There have been al
most innumerable applicants for public otfices,
many of them men of no genius, and generally
of 110 induflry ; who wished to live an easy life
on public support. All these are disappointed,
and will wish 10 revenge themselves, by inlinua-'
tions against the deligns of government, and the
favored persons who manage our great inrerefts.
Like an honefl people, let us despise every attempt
of this nature, until the government hath had
time to operate, we shall then know its excellen
cies, and can remedy itsdefecfts if there be any."
It maybe of service toooferve the different operations ot the
human mind,with refpeft to the fimeobjeft. While the friends to
the new Constitution are anticipating every benign effe&from its
influence and operation, its enemies paint to their frighted imagi
nation?, a horrible group of tyrants, state locusts and all the con
comitants of slavery.
Education has always been an objeel of the firft
consideration with the nioft enlightened nacions-
Duringthe existence of the degrading feudal fyf
teni, the importance of Education was loft, for the
commonalty being the property oft heir chieftains,
it became the interest of their imperious lords to
keep their vaflals in a state of ignorance : When
mankind began to emerge into day, and learning
acquired its pofleflors influence and reipecft, the
wealthy found means to appropriate its advanta
ges to themselves—Hence rose the institutions of
expensive colleges, and universities, from which
the poor derived little or no advantage—and by
the help of superior endowments of mind, the
rich added to their immense wealth, and perpe
tuating the remains of feudal tenures, kept the
people ftillin a state of slavery. This fyftemdid
not however long continue, for learning soon
spread its benign influences among the inferior
orders, and in its progress opened the way for
freedom : Ignorance andflavery are not more in
timately conned.ed, than knowledge and liberty.
The institution of inferior schools for the benefit
of the people at large, must depend on the will of
an enlightened majority of the people : In a free
country therefore, the people must look to them
selves for those institutions with which their own
particular advantages are most intimately connetTt
ed : The rich, as they have it in their power, can
always avail themselves of the means of learning
fortheir own children, and if the people are neg
ligentand remiss, they must fuffer the confcquen
ces. Ido not know any reason that can be alfign
ed, why colleges, which are supported by all,
fliould be so constituted, that the rich only can
be benefitted by them—or why there fhouldToe
any particular place, or city, in the United States,
where there is no public provifionfor the educa
tion of the poor.
DlED—at JierJin, on the id of June, in the $Qth year of his ageo
Baron Knaphausen, the Hejfian General in America.
ARRIVALS NEW-YORK.
Wtdnefday, Ship Hudson, Folgicr, Dieppe, 50 days.
Brig Friends, Moore, Liverpool, 66 days.
BrigSandwicb, Butler, Trinidad, 36 days.
Friday, Packet Sandwich, Falmouth, 39 days.
Bchooner Betsy, Duggins, Honduras, 31 days.
Brig Industry, Conkhn, Cape Francois, 28 days.
C- 3 W ANTED, to complete Files of this paper, numbers 30,40, 43,
44, 46. and 48 .• Six pence each will be paid for either of those numbers
at the office of the Editor. October 1;,The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED,
(in continuation.)
OUR author is 110 where so weak as in this
reason, or under this head. He attempts to prove
his point by reason and examples, but is equally
unfortunate in both. First, by reason. '• The
" people," fays he, " mult belefs luxurious than
" kings, or great ones, becaul'ethey are bounded
" within a more lowly pitch ofdelire and ima
" gination : Give them but panem et tircenfes,
" bread, sport and ease, and they are abundantly
" latisfied." It it to be feared that this is too
goad a charaifter for any people living, or that
have lived. Ihe difpolition to luxury is the
fame, tho the habit is not, both in plebeians,
patricians and kings. When we fay their delires
are bounded, we admit the desires to exist. Ima
gination is as quick in one as in the other. It is
demanding a great deal to demand " bread, and
" sports, and ease." No one can tell how farthefe
termsntay extend. If by bread is meant a fub
fiitence, a maintenance in food and clothing, it
will mount up very high ; if by sports be meant
cock-fighting, horse-racing, theatrical represen
tations, and all the species of cards, dice, and
gambling, no mortal philosopher can fathom the
depth of this article; and if with " bread" and
" sport" they are to have " ease" too, and by
ease be meant idleness, an exemption from care
and labor, all three together will amount to as
much as ever was demanded for nobles or kings,
and more than ought ever to be granted,to either.
But let us grant all this for a moment; wefliould
be disappointed ; tliepromifed " abundant satis
" faction," would not be found. The bread
muftfoonbe of the fineft wheat; poultry and gib
bier mull be added to beef and mutton ;
tertainments would not be elegant enough after
a time ; moreexpence mult be added :—lnlhort,
contentment is not inhuman nature ; there is no
pallion, appetite, or affection for contentment.
To amuse and Hatter the people with compliments
of qualities that never exilted in them, is not the
duty or the right of a philosopher or legislator ;
he mull forma true idea and judgment of man
kind, and adapt hisinllitutions to farts, not com
pliments.
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES.
(Continued from No. LI1I.)
THE fell erne of ifluing any more continental
money, I take for granted, no body will think
of, and therefore I conclude, that all the ways
and means which have hitherto beentryed, have
proved utterly inefficient for the purpose : And
1 further conceive, that it will be allowed, that
the mode I propose, if put into practice, would
be lufficient. I further contend, that no other
mode within our reach, is or can be equally eafv
to the people, and equally productive of Ef
ficient money for the various purposes of our uni
on ; this is then the only practicable way our
union can be supported, and of course the union
depends on it, and without it, mult inevitably
fall to pieces. To fay all this, may be thought
■very prcfumption in an individual; be it
so, ft ill I am fafe, for 110 man can contradi«ft me,
who is not able to find and explain some other
way of supply, equally easy to the people, and
equally productive of all the money which the
support of the union requires : But in as much as
the eagerness of enquiry for several years past
has not been able to discover any such other mode,
I conclude there is 110 fucli, and of course, the
one I have proposed is the only one that can be
adopted, to faveourunion from diilolution ; and
Wilder the impression of this full persuasion, may
I be permitted to address our public administra
tion, not only in Congrcfs, but in all the states,
in the ftronglanguage of Lord Chatham ; set me
down as an ideot, if you do not adopt it, or rue
your neglecft ; and 'tis not certain that, our pof
tei ity in the next age, and all our neighbours in
the present, will not set you down for ideots, if
you don't adopt it fooy, before the mifchiefs it
is designed to obviate, lhall grow up to such de
cree cf magnitude and strength, as to become
incapable of remedy ; for what can they think
when they fliall fee that you fuffer our union'
which is committed to your care, to fall topieces
under your hands, because you will not attempt
it that support, which to fay the least of
it, is inlts nature practicable, and the due prac
tice of which would produce the great remedy
required.
But you will fay perhaps, we admit your prin
ciple to be just and good, but we cannot raise
our ideas up tv your height of scale or degree of im
pojl ; your tax is too high, it grafts too mi<ch, and
is thereby in danger of lofntg all, it will scare our
people out of their wits. I don't think muchof
this, if the wits which the people now have, are
not fufficient for tlieir salvation, it matters little
how soon they are feared out of them ; but 'tis
not certain that their wits are so volatile, their
is at least a possibility, a chance that they may
have wit enough to adopt the reniedv, that will
prevent those which (if iiot prevent
ed) will soon drive them out of their fecuriry
their property —their national honor—their coun
try and wits too ; at least I think it needless for
you to loofc your wits, for fear the people will
loose theirs. But I would ask you seriously, do
you think thatalefs scale of tax than that which
I propose, would be fufficiently productive for
the publick service, or thefupportof the union ?
I think you mult probably fay no, on the bare pre
fujnption, (for the produce of an untryed tax,
can't be reduced to a certainty) to what purpose
then, I further ask, would it be to set on foot so
expensive and troublefonie an operation, which
when computed, would be utterly inadequate to
its purposes ; or what funds have you, out of
which you expe<ft to draw the deficiency ?
If there is any wisdom or effort in our councils
and plans, tliey mull reach through ; they must
connect the means with the end, and make the
one adequate to the other. Would you not laugh
at a sailor, who should moor a fliip with an inch
rope, and so loose the fliip, for fear his owners
should find fault with him for wetting a cable.
Where means are inadequate to their end, they
become ridiculous, especially when adopted in
matters of consequence, people lose all confi
dence in their effects, and therefore lose all cou
rage and inducement to ufeftrong efforts to make
them operate. lam clearly of opinion, if our
people have loft their confidence in our public
councils, and are backward in pushing them into
practice, the re a foil is, not becaufethey areftupid
and blind to their interelts, or wanting in zeal to
promote them, but because their courage is all
worn out and their patience exhausted, by a seven
years course of visionary, ineffectual, ill contriv
ed and half digested plans, which promised lit
tle in theory, but constantly in practice, proved
the baseless fabricks of avifion, and vanished at
last, not only without use, but with consequences
very detrimental to our national character of
integrity and wisdom, as well as to the interests
and morals of our people ; not the least discourag
ing of all which, was this constant effect which
they all had, viz. that thofeftates or individuals,
which promoted them with molt zeal, ardor and
effort, always loft most by them.
(To be continued.)
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 17.
L AST Tuefdaya Deputation from the Society
of Friends, waited on the President of the United
States, and presented him with the following
Addrefu °
The Address of the Religious Society called Qjuikers,
Jrom their yearly meeting for Pen-nfylvanin, New
Jersey, Delaware and the vieflern farts of Mary
land and Virginia—
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
BEING met in this our annual Assembly, for
the well ordering the affairs of our religious so
ciety, and the promotion of universal righteous
ness, our minds have been drawn to consider, that
the Almighty, who rulcth in Heaven, and in the
kingdoms of men, having permitted a great re
volution to take place in the government of this
country ; —we are fervently concerned that the
Rulers of the People may be favored with the
counfe! of God—the only sure means of enabling
theni to fulfil the important trust committed to
their charge ; and in an especial manner, that
divine wifdoin and grace,vouchsafed from above,
may qualify thee to fill up the duties of the ex
alted station to which thou art appointed.
We are sensible thou haft obtained great place
in the elteem and affections of people of all de
nominations over whom thou prefideft; and ma
ny eminent talents being committed to thy trust,
we much desire they may be fully devoted to the
Lord's honor and l'ervice—that thus thou mayll
be an happy instrument in his hand, for the fup
preffionof vice, infidelity and irreligion, and e
very fpccies of oppreflion on the persons or con
sciences of men, fothat righteousness and peace
which truly exalteth a nation, may prevail
throughout the land, as the onlyfblid foundation
that can be laid for the prosperity and happiness
of this or any country.
1 he free toleration which the citizens of tliefe
States enjoy in the public worship of the Almigh
ty agreeable to the dilates of their confidences
we esteem among the choicest of blellings ; and
as we desire to be filled with fervent charity for
those who differ from us in matters of faith and
pravflice, believing that the general aflembly of
Saints is composed of the sincere and upright heart
ed of all nations, kingdoms and people so we
trust, we may justly claim it from others ; and
in a full perfuafiop that the divine principle we
profefs, leads unto harmony and concord, we can
take no part in carrying on war on any occasion
or under any power, but are bound in conscience
to lead quiet and peaceable lives, in godliness
and lionefty, amongst men, contributing; freelv
our proportion to the indigencies of the poor
and to the neceilary support of civil government'
acknowledging thofethat rule well to be worthy
of double honor ; and if any profeffmjr with us
are or have been of a contrary difpofieion or con
duct, we own them not therein, havino- never
been chargeable from our firft establishment as a
religions society, with fomenting or couiuenanc
ing tumults or coufpiracies, or difrefp e « t0 tU ,
who are placed in authority over us.
We wiih not improperly to intrude on thy time
or patience, nor is jt our practice to offer aduh
tion to any, but as we are a people whose p,-i,
pies and conduct have been mifreprelented ami
traduced—we take the libertv to allure thee tint
we leel our hearts affectionately drawn toward,
thee and those in authority over us, with prayers
that thy Preiidency may, under the bleiW of
Heaven, be happy to thy fell" and to the people
that through the encreafe of morality and true
religion, divine Providence may condescend to
look down upon our land with a propitious eve
and bless the inhabitants with the continuance of
peace, the dew of Heaven, and the fatnels of the
earth; and enable us gratefully to acknowledge
his maniiold mercies ; and it is our earnest con
cern, tliathe may be pleased to grant thee every
neceflary qualification to fill thy weighty and im
portant station to his glory, and that finally, when
all tenelliul honors shall tail and pals away, thou
and thy refpecftable consort may be found Worthy
to reccive a crown of unfading righteousness in
the mansions of peace and joy forever.
Signed in and 071 behalf of the said netting, held
in Philadelphia by adjournments from thei&tb of
the <)th month, to the id day of the loth ,/tonth in
clupve, 1789. RICHARD WALN, Clerk.
The A/ij-wer of the President of the United
St ates, to the Ad dress of the religious Society
called (Quakers, from their yearly meeting far
Pcnnjylvania, NNew-Jerseyy y Delaware, g.ni tbi
■wejteru parts of Maryland and Virginia.
G ENILEMEN,
I RECEIVE with pleasure your affectionate
address, and thank you for the friendly fentiwents
andgood wiflies which you express fortheluccefs
of my adminilh ation and for my perfoual hap.
pinefs.
We have reason to rejoice in the prospect, that
the national government which hy the favor of
divine Providence was formed by the common
councils, and peaceably eltablifhed with the com
mon consent of the people, will prove a bleffiug
to every denomination of them ; to render it
luch my belt endeavors shall not be wanting. Go
vernment being among other purposes inliituted
to protedl the persons and consciences of men
from opprellion, it certainly is the duty of rulers
not only to abstain from it themfelves,but accord
ing to their ltations to prevent it in others.
The liberty enjoyed by the people of these
States of worlhiping Almighty God agreeably to
their consciences is not only among the choicelt of
their bleflings, but also of theirrights—whilemen
perform their social duties faithfully, they do all
that society or the State can with propriety ex
petft or demand, andremain refponlible only to
their Maker for the religion or mode of faith
which they may prefer or profefs. Your princi
ples and condud: are well known to me, audit
is doing the people called Quakers no more than
justice tofay,that (except their declining to lhare
with others the burthen of the common defence)
thereis no denomination among us who are more
exemplary and ufeful citizens I allure you ve
ry explicitly that in my opinion the conscientious
scruples of all men fliould be treated with great
delicacy and tendernefs,and it is my wiih and de
sire that the laws may always be as extensively
accommodated to them as a due regard to the
protection and ellential interests of the nation may
juftify and permit. (Signed)
E WASHINGTON.
HEALTH.
MANY pcrfons fuffer in their health from causes which might
easily be avoided : Bad air is vefy deftru&ive to health. I will
mention a circumstance but little attended to : Many complain
that their cellars will not keep meat, butter, &c.—tbe reason
generally is, that there is no circulation of air in their cellars; con
fined air corrupts, and will corrupt meat or vegetables if put into
it; therefore to remove the air complained of, every cellar should
have windows to admit a conflant flream of frelh air ; in summer
the windows should be the northern fide the house; in winter lef*
air is necefTary, but some mull be admitted.
The greatest evil arising from corrupted air in cellars is, it ls
constantly mixing with the air in the house, and by its poisonous
effluvia endangers the health of the family. From thiscaufe un
doubtedly fatal sickness has often been produced.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
Jamaica Spirits, - sfy-
Antigua Rum, - 4^o.
St. Croix, do. - 4/6.
Country, do. - - 2/10.
MolafTes, - 2J2. 0 2JI.
Brandy, * $fg. a 6f.
Geneva, ... sfo.
Do. in cases, - • 28/T a 2gf.
Muscovado Sugar, - - Sojl a 7 2 f>
Loaf, do. - - y3 m
Lump, do. - - y l g*
Pepper, - - - 3.f:
Pimento, - St/ 2, a 2/.
Coffee, - - xfo, o- l j9*
Indigo, (Carolina) - - 31- a
Rice, - - 24J. o- 2 3f-
Superfine Flour, - 4 %/'
Common do. - - 43/ a 4.5>
Rye do. - 26f. 0. 27/
Indian Meal, - 1 '
R\e, - - 49/ pr. bush.
Corn, (Southern)
Do. (Northern,) - 4/j- a iJ '
Beef, firft quality, - - 4. a
Pork, firfl quality, -
I Publiihed by JOHN FENNO, No'. 9, Maiden*
Lan e, wear the Ofecgo-Market, l' r ' &