[No. LVIII.]
THE TABLE T.—No. LVIII.
" We daily fee persons that without education or
" friends, by their own indujlry and application, raise
« themselves from nothing to mediocrity, and some
" times above it,ij once they come rightly to love mo
" my, and take delight in saving it."
T T Teems to puzzle men of observation to de
-1 termine why many persons, who appear
to have great sagacity in conversation, and a ge
neral knowlege of the principles and forms of
bufinefs > Ihould never be able, with all their ex
ertions, to accumulate property. If we examine
the fubjetft, we shall find that the love of money,
tho a universal paflion, does not prevail in every
bread as a ruling passion. It may b* laid down as
a general maxim, that where avarice becomes the
leading propensity of any man, he will certainly
make acquilitions to his estate. Moll men who
pursue business, without encreafing their interest,
complain of hard fortune as an apology for not
making better progress. This complaint often
has no foundation, unless we call it a misfortune
not to love to get and save money more tliah any
other objecft.
We fhoulddiftinguifli bet Ween the love of gain
and the love of money. Ambition may prompt
a man into a<fls of hazard and enterprize with a
view of profit; but when this is the only motive
he will often be negligent in the pursuit, and per
haps lose his objetTt for want of care and perse
verance : or if he succeeds in his adventures, it is
ten chances to one but he appropriates his gains,
with so little caution, that he is none the better
for them. But when avarice, or the real love of
money adtuates any one, every step he takes is
so prudent andcircumfped; that he fcldom mifles
the attainment of his objedl. And when h£ once
realizes his gains,he is no lefscareful in applying
his money, than he was industrious in earning it.
Habits of industry, and an ardor of enterprize
are much more ufuul qualifications than prudence
and economy. How far any of those qualities
are the gift of nature, or how far they are
the efFec r t of art and attention, cannot be ex
a&ly ascertained. It is very certain that one
reason, why so many persons miscarry in business,
is owing to some errors or defects in the mode of
their education. Many young men are early in
ured to the pratftife of business, and learn to make
nice calculations in fcheines that afford profit,who,
at the fame time, arc never taught the secret of
saving money. To acquire property, in the firft
inflance, is a much less difficult talk than to pre
fer ve it. Motives of ambition, generosity, cha
rity, and a tlioufand other causes, conspire to
empty the purse of a man, who may have a faci
lity in gaining property. The emphatical cx
preffion, that riches take to themselves
wings and kly aw a y, is verified in innumerable
instances. Property finds so many avenues of ef
cajie, that when it falls to the lot of a person, who
liasnotfrugality.it almost ceases to be a blessing.
In this view of the fubjedl, parents, and those,
who have the management of youth, should teach
them to practise economy, as well as to under
stand business. Many artificial methods may be
used to bring children into a love of saving mo
mey, as well as into the knowlege of procuring
it. The latter attainment will produce little real
advantage to the pofleflor, unless he has a compe
tent skill in the former. Few men are born with
adifpofition so peculiarly avaritiousas to produce
habits of economy without great pfffe and circum
fpeilion. If a child was early induced to keep an
cxatft account of all his expences, he would soon
become so familiarized to the cuftom,thatit would
no longer seem irksome. The total amount at
the end of the year would probably alarm him,
and he would rcfol ve the next year to spend more
Sparingly, or at any rate, less foolifhly. He would
deliberately examine the different articles of his
expences, and retrench such parts as were unne
ceflary or injudicious. While the parent is train
ing his child into a fyfteni of economy, he may
faiiiciently guard him againlt ails 01 meanness
orrigor. There are occasions, where he may be
generous, and ought to be charitable ; but lie
iiiould learn accurately to diflinguifh generosity
from profufion, and to observe the virtues of
friendfhip and charity without descending to
weakness and folly.
There is no circumstance of more importance
in inftru<fting a child, than to make liiin take a
delight in saving part of the money that he, by
any means, becomes poflelled of. Some naturally
have a close, saving difpofition,and they generally
prosper in the world. But there is a great pro
portion of men who have other passions llronger
than avarice, and all their talents and pursuits
'eemto produce ultimately very little advantage,
fiiev have never been taught the necelfity of cul
tivating how to spend their money, tlio great
pains have been taken in teaching them calcula
tions how to grasp at profit. It is worth wiiiie
(£>o2
SATURDAY, October 31, 1739.
for any man, at the close of the year, to take a
retrofpeiftive view of his mode of appropriating
or expending money, and to endeavor to correct
what he may, upon comparing the whole toge
tlier, deem mistakes. Most men of indultry, who
do not add to their interest, charge the fault to the
dulnefs of bulineft ; and therefore have no idea
of searching out the true cause of their poverty,
which they will find not to consist in the hardneis
of the times, but in the badness of their own ar
rangements. Everyman, in any considerable bu
nnel's, who does not addfomething to his proper
ty, should endeavor to persuade hiinfelf, that he is
yetunacquainted with a proper ryftcinof economy.
MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
(For Letter t/it,.. /« ,'ur pu/.nr Ad. III.)
L ETTU VII.
Amsterdam, Oct. ro, 1780.
SIR,
"VTOUR seventh inquiry is, Whether the common
X " people in Atnerica are not inclined, nor ivoula
" be able, to find fufficient mean •to frujlrate, by fur a
" the good intentions of the jkilful politicians ?"
IN answer to this, it is fufficient to fay that the
commonalty have no need to have recourse to
force, to oppose the intentions of the fkilful ; be
cause the law and the constitution authorise the
common people to choose Governors and Magis
trates every year ; so that they have it constantly
in their power to leave out any politician, how
ever lkilful,whofelprinciples,opinions, or systems,
they do not approve;
The difference, however, in that country, is not
so great as it is in fjme others, between the com
mon people and the gentlemen—for noblemen
tliey have none. There is no country where the
common people, I mean the tradesmen, the hus
bandmen, dnd the laboring people, have such ad
vantages of education as in that : And it may be
truly laid, that their education, their understand
ing, is as nearly equal as their birth, fortune, dig
nities, and titles.
It is therefore certain, that whenever the com
mon people fliall determine upon peace or fub
miflion, it will be done. But of this there is 110
danger. The common people are the moftunan
imoufly determined against Great Britain of any :
It is the war of the common people : It was un
dertaken by them—and has been, and will be,
supported by them.
The people of that country often rose, in large
bodies, against the measures of government, while
it was in the hands of tile king. But there has
been no examples of this fort, under the New
Constitutions, excepting one, which is mentioned
in General Howe's narrative, in the back part of
North Carolina. This was owing to causes so
particular,thatitratlier fervesto shew theftrengtli
of the American cause in that State, than the
contrary.
About the year 1772, under the government of
Tryon, who lias since made hiinfelf so obnoxious
to all America, there were some warm difpuiesin
North-Carolina, concerning some of the internal
regulationsof that province ; and afmall number
of people in the back parts rose in arms, under
the name of Regulators, defeated them, hanged
some of their ringleaders, and publiihed procla
mations against many others. Tliefe people were
all treated as having been in rebellion, and they
were left to solicit pardon of the crown. This
eftablifiied in the minds of those Regulators such
an hatred towards the reft of their fellow-citi
zens. that in 1775, when the war broke out, they
would not join with them. The King has since
promised them pardon for their former treasons,
upon condition that they commit frefh ones a
gainst their country. In 1777, in conjun<flion
with a number of Scotch Highlanders, they rose
—Governor Cafwell marched against them, gave
them battle, and defeated them. This year they
have risen again, and been again defeated. But
these people are so few in number—there is so
much apparent malice and revenge, instead of
any principle, in their difaffedlion, that any one
who knows any thing of the human heart will fee
that, instead of finally weakening the American
cause in North Carolina, it will only serve to give
a keenness and an obltinacy to support it.
Nothing, indeed, can Ihew the unanimity of
the people throughout America in a stronger
light than this—that the Britilharmy has been a
bie to procure so few recruits, to excite so few in
furredtions and dilturbances. Nay, although the
freedom of the press, and the freedom of Ipeech
is carried to as great lengths in that country as
in anyunder the fun, therelias never been a hint
in a newfpapcr, or even in a nandbill, nor a single
Ipeech or vote in anyaflembly, that I have heard
of, for submission, or even reconciliation.
I have the honor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
\PubliJhid on Wednsfday and Saturday ~\
THE NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XXIV.
" Po.mposo too, who with averted eye,
" Now pafles all his old acquaintance by."
THERE is a foible to which human nature is
peculiarly,incident—and in excuse for which
there is as little to be said, as for any weakness
whatever: It is forget f uln ess. When I fee
striking examplesof the voluntary loss of me
mory, it brings to mind a neat reply to the obfcr
vation which a person made on being negletfted
by a quondam acquaintance—" he appears to
have entirely forgot me," said lie, the reply was,
" no wonder at it, he has forgot himself. Ic
is generally the cafe, I believe, that people of a
supercilious temper forget their origin, their ear
ly profpedts, their former sentiments of modesty,
discretion, charity and urbanity, before they as
sume a diftanr, superior deportment towards
their old connexions. As nothing has a more
powerful influence on the public opinion, than
an obliging, condescending deportment ; in e
■very free government, the candidates for offices,
while pursuing their objecft, discover on all occa
sions n free, mild, and social disposition—No per
son is beneath their notice/ who is of the small
est consequence in society; no circumllance of
appearance, time or place, will prevent the
limle, the bow, or the friendly shake by the
hand—their dignity is not in tlieleaftLET down
by tbefe familiarities—but the summit of their
wiffies obtained, what a strange alteration often,
ensues I —the poor unhappy creatures arefudden
ly llruck with partial blindness ; their fight be
comes dim, or so limitted that they can fee no
thing but a poll: that happens to come in diretfc
contacft with their noses—a fad loss of memory
succeeds, so that they can hardly recolletft a yc
fterday's acquaintance—they forget their bene
fa<ftors, and from the elevation to which they are
raised by the voice of their partial countrymen,
look down with Contempt on their creators.—
However general this mode of conduct may be,
it is not wife, politic, or just—nor can the pow
er of example give a fanftion to it.—Such persons
ffiould remember that whatever the v lose of the
powers of recolletftton, is added to the ltock of
their conflituents—the public Inemory is stub
bornly tenacious, and it constantly derogates from
pride, in exacft proportion to its arrogance.—Pride
and patriotism are not branches of the fame stock,
and on all occasions it will be found, that those
who can treat individuals with contempt, are to
tally destitute of the divine principle of love to
their country. May those chara<sters which the
free citizens of these States have honored by
their fufFrages, discover on all occasions those ami
able, generous and benevolent qualities, which
(hall evince that the public confidence has not
been ill placed—ln this way themoft favorable
impressions of the government will be formed on
the minds ofth," people, and the empire of their
affetflions will befecured. How pleasing is the
reflecftion that those who are appointed to admi
nifler the conftitntion of this confederated re
public, are generals persons who have borne
with the people " the "burthens and heat of the
day" in the late arduous conflitfl—men, whose
principles, and habits we have been familiarized
to—and from whom we have 110 reason to antici
pate the lealt hauteur of carriage, or "infolencc
of office."
Mark those who bear a high, imperious crest,
Who with infufferable pride pofleft,
Give to y<»ur just demands a (harp reply.
And yon IhMI Hndthr-m nr.c mounted high.
ELECTRICAL RODS.
THE power of metalicrods to attract and con
duct lightening into the earth, with fafety to the
buildings on which they are affixed, is generally
known. These rods, as they are commonly made
in the country, are not of fufficientbignefs to con
duct it off. Every fad: of this kind ought to be com
municated for the public information. Thurs
day the 16th instant an eledlric rod in Hartford
wasftruckby lightning from the clouds. One of
the pointers melted—a great blaze of fire for se
veral instants appeared to involve the top of the
rod—the rod through its whole length to the
eaith, emitted an immense number of large
sparks—part of the lightningdefcended by two
chimnies, one contiguous to the rod, and the o
ther thirty feet distant. This rod weighs more
than one hundred pounds, and in diameter is an
irfch and one third nearly, a size larger than is
commonly used. Theexpanfive blaze which for
a Jhort space surrounded the top of the rod arose
from its incapacity instantly to receive and con
duct so great a charge—the emission of sparks and
the descent of lightning by the chimnies are evi
dence of the fame facfl. A small rod which at
tracts the lightning and is infufficient to conduct
it into the earth, may in some instances increase
the danger. An inch and half diameter is the
fmnlleft size which ought to be used.from the PENNSYLVANIA PACKET.
To the FARMERS of PENNSYLVANIA, and
el/l'ivherc.
BY the latest accounts from Europe, there is
reason to expect that there will be, for some
time, a demand for large quantities of wheat and
flour for exportation from the United States. At
the fame time it is well known, that from the le
vere drought which has prevailed for several
weeks pait, the crops of wheat sown this year too
generally wear a very unpromising afpe»ft. These
confulerafions have induced me to communicate
the result of an experiment, among several others,
linadelaft fall, witli a view to ascertain the best
method of guarding againll the destructive opera
tions of the Heffiaji Fly, which at that time was
fuppoled would coihe forward from the eastward,
upon 'the grain cnjps ; but, through the favor of
Divine Providenct, our apprehenlions on that ac
count feemnow t/o be entirely removed.
The sth day of November last, which was a
bouttwo months after the proper time of sowing
moll kinds of wheat, I sowed apiece of buck-wheat
fiubble with yellow-bearded wheat, at the rate of
five pecks per acre*; when the winter came 011,
the feed scarcely had vegetated, and until the be
ginning of May the whole appeared exceedingly
backward ; but at the following harvest (the 16th
of July) I liadthe unexpected fatisfaclion of reap
ing as fine a crop as I, or any of my neighbors, had
from an equal quantity of ground sown in the
month of September. The foil, aloomy clay, was
in tolerable heart, but had not been manured for
many years ; it was ploughed about eight inches
deep, the feed sown over furrow, and a few fur
rows cut with the plough, to carry off any excess
of water. The ground had two other ploughings
of the above depth the fame year, viz. in the month
of April, for spring barley, and in July for the
buck-wheat crop. A heavy roller was drawn over
the buck-wheat Hubble, in order to break down
the hard clods that lay on the furface of the ground
which could not be reduced by the plough and
harrow. But as few farmers in this State are pro
vided with this ufeful machine, it may be observ
ed, that this operation, tho of service, is not es
sentially neceflary, nor will it be advifeable for
those who have been in the too common pra<flice
of ploughing their lands from three to four inches
deep, to plough double that depth, and immedi
ately sow wheat, 011 a foil which, perhaps, has ne
ver before been expoied to the acftion of the fun
and air. But yet, a small portion of frefh earth,
turned up with the old worn out foil, may not be
amiss.
The yellow-bearded wheat may be had of seve
ral persons, who procured feed last year from
Long-Island; but where it cannot be had, foine
other kinds may probably answer nearly as well,
particularly the common red and yellow wheat,
which are efteeined the hardiest.
As the earth is now very dry, and consequently
in a good condition to receive late crops, (more
especially if rain should follow soon after) I am
about sowing all my buck-wheat stubble and po
tatoe fallows, with yellow-bearded wheat (except
a small part with the other forts, on trial) and
some rye.
Several fields of wheat and rye have lately been
ploughed up, and the ground sown over again,
from being much injured by the infed: called the
Louse, which frequently makes great havoc in dry
seasons ; but it is doubufvl whether this will al
ways anl wer, as it has been experienced thatthefe
infects (many of which still remain alive in the
ground, if ftie drought continues)have often de
voured thefhoots of even afecond sowing.
Having given the foregoing circumltances, I
fliall not at present fpendany time in speculative
reasoning. If any considerable quantity of wheat
can be railed by the means I haveftated, in addi
tion to what maybe produced from that already
sown, my aim will be anfvvered.
JOSEPH MIFFLIN.
Fountain Green, October 24, 1789.
N. B. This Address would have been firft hand
ed to the Philadelphia Agricultural Society, for
their infpecftion, but their next meeting will not be
held until the roth of next month, which would
render the publication too late to serve the pur
pose intended.
NOT E.
* When winter grain is sown later >than usual, a greater quan"
tity of feed should be allowed, as it is apt not to tiller or ftooi so
well as when sown earlier.
ANECDOTE.
THE ladies can, if they please, retaliate severe
ly on those who treat them not with the respect
they merit. A gentleman who had married a
second wife, indulged hiinfelf in recuring too'of
ten in conversation to the beauty and virtues of
his firft consort. He had, however, barely dis
cernment enough to discover, that the fubjeft
■was not agreeable to his present lady. " Excuse
"me madam,faid he, I cannot help expreffingmy
" regret for the dear deceased " Upon my
" honor, said the lady, I can molt heartily affirm
" that I am as fncere # mourner for her, as ytu can
*< be."
The HERMIT, and liis DOG.
From Sympathy, a poem.
IN life's fair morn, I knew an aged seer,
Who fad and lonely pafs'd his joyless year;
Betrav'd, heart-broken, from the world he ran,
And fhunn'd, oh dire extreme, the face of man ;
ilumblv he rear'd his hut within the wood,
Hermit his veil, a hermit's was his food,
Nitch'd in fomc corner of the gelid cave,
Where chilling drops the rugged rockftone lave ;
Hour after hour, the melancholy sage,
Drop after drop to reckon, would engage
The ling'ring day, and trickling as they fell,
A tear went with them to the narrow well;
Then thus he moraliz'd as (low it pafs'd,
44 This, brings me nearer Lucia than the last;
" And this, now ftrcaming from the eye," laid he,
44 Oh, my lov'd child, will bring me nearer thee."
When firft he roam'd, his dog with anxious care,
His wand'rings watch'd, as emulous to fharc ;
In vain the faithful brute was bid to go,
In vain the sorrower fought a lonely woe.
The Hermit paus'd, th' attendant dog was near,
Slept at his feet, and caught the falling tear ;
Up rose the Hermit, up the dog would rife,
And every way to win a mailer tries.
44 Then be it so. Come faithful fool," he said ;
One pat encourag'd, and they fought the shade ;
An unfrequented thicket soon they found,
And both repos'd upon the leafy ground ;
Mellifluous murm'rings told the fountains nigh,
Fountains, which well a pilgrim's drink supply,
And thence, by many a labyrinth is led,
Where ev'ry tree beftow'd an ev'ning bed.
Skill'd in the chace, the faithful creature brought
Whate'er at morn or moon-light course he caught ;
But the sage lent his fympathv to all,
Nor saw unwept his dumb alfociates fall.
He was, in sooth, the gentlest of his kind,
And tho a Hermit, had a social mind :
44 And why, said he, must man subsist by prey,
44 Why Hop yon melting music on the spray ?
44 Why, when aflail'd by hounds and hunter's cry,
44 Mull half theharmlefs race in terrors die ?
44 W r hy must we work of innocence the woe ?
44 Still (hall this bolom throb, these eyes o'erflow ;
44 A heart too tender here, from man, retires,
44 A heart that aches, if but a wren expires."
Thus liv'd the mailer good, the servant true,
'Till to its God the mailer's spirit fiew ;
Befidea fount which daily water gave,
Stooping to drink, the Hermit found a grave;
All in the running ftreain his garments spread,
And dark, damp verdure ill conceal'd his head ;
The faithful servant from that fatal day
Watch'd the lov'd corpse, and h urly pin'd away ;
His head upon his mailer's cheek was found,
W r hile the obilru£led water mourn'd around.
EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, August 2j.
THE present Pope will probably be the last.—
There is every reason to suppose that his suc
cess will be no more than Bishop of Rome, or per
haps Patriarch of the Weft.
The emancipation of France will give such an
overthrow to Popery, that it is probable, in pro
cess of time, the purest religion may beeftablifhed
there, and that is the ProteltantSyftem.
The key which hangs to the Popes' Girdle will
have few locks hereafter, except those of Heaven,
to open :—his revenue from France cut off, Po
land declining, and Avignon in a state of revolt,
how are the holy coffers to be filled.
His Holinefi the Pope may now truly be said,
—to :nount the papal chair,
And scatter empty thunders to the air;
Grimly prcTide in superstition's school,
And curse those kingdoms he can never rule.
The Ealt India company are extending their
commerce in many branches hitherto unattempt
ed, and in particular their exportation of copper,
of which they have sent out this year to the amount
of two thousand five hundred tons.
The Ruffian force in the Baltic, nowconfifts of
37 fail of the line, frigates and other vell'els in
proportion.
The Prince of Naflau who commands the Squa
dron of Ruffian Gallies, is about to land the troops
who are to cut off the retreat of the Swedes across
the river.
The squadron of gallies which failed from
Stockholm, the 14th of July for Finland, had un
der their charge 50 transports, with 2300 troops
011 board.
On the 16tli ult. the King of Denmark, noticed
to the College of War, at Copenhagen, that he
had appointed Prince Charles of Helle, Stadthol
der of the Dutchefsof Hollfeinand Slefwig, to re
gulate the necefl'ary preparations for fixing a
camp in Holftein, as well as the station where the
troops were to aftemble.
The Prince Royal is to attend this encampment,
and was to set out from Copenhagen the 10th ult.
Prince Charles of Hefle has been for some weeks
at Berlin, and is to meet his Royal Highness at
Slefwig. "
Extrafl of a letter from Canterbury, Aug. 20.
" Last week Madam Neckar pafl'ed through
this city on her way to London."
In the 128 th session of the Diet of Poland, they
deliberated on making a compensation for there
venues of the Bishops, who (hould succeed to ac
tual bishoprics. After long debates, they deci
ded that all Bishops fliould have 100,000 florins
annually, and the Arclibifhop of Guefne, as Pri
mate, 200,000. The Ruffian Bishops of the Greek
church should have yo,ooo florins, and their Arch
bishops 100,000. The reft of the revenue enjoy
ed by the Bishops isconfigned to the Treasury.
TIIE EMPEROR.
The following is the head of the Emperor', D t
claration of the i 4 th of Anguit, i 789, conceiv
ing the Universities:
It revokes his edirt of the 16tli of October, 17 36
wherein he granted to the Hifhops the liberty of
inrtrutfingtluir pupils in the priesthood in their
own universities instead of fending them to Lou
vaine, as was formerly the cafe.
Restores to the University of Louvaine, th; n r : :
of nomination, of which it was deprived bv liis Edict
of the 24th-of November, 1782.
Declares, that he is ready to make the greatelt
concellions for the tranquility of his subjects:
As this EdicT: was the principal cause of the trou
bles in the Low Countries, there is reason to be
lieve that every thing will return to its former
order.
Extratt of a Utter from Paris, Aug. 17.
" 1 informed you in my last, that an opinion
had begun to prevail, that the explosion of gun
powder near Vefoul, bywhich itwasfaidfo many
lives had been loft, was the effetft of chance, and
not of design. This opinion is now generally
received ; and the Lord of Quince, who was con
lidered as a monster in nature and justly too, whilst
he was thought to have been the author of a
deliberate design to blow up his neighbors, is now
pretty generally acquitted of the finalleft fliare
of guilt in this transaction.
The particulars of the cafe are thus ftatcd in
an account taken upon thefpot : Three dragoons
were walking in the park where the explosion
took place, in this park there stood a pavilion,
where the powder and arms belonging to the Lord
de Quince were kept. It was well knownin the
neighbourhood, that this was the place where
the nobleman had always kept his powder and
arms. They procured a light, and probably
went about with it to look at the different tilings
that were in the building. It is conjectured th e
finding a barrel of gun-powder (there was only
onein thepavilion) and not knowing what it con
tained, they were not as careful with refpeiftto
the candle as they would otherwise have been,
and thus incautiouily set fire to the powder, which
destroyed them and the building. Thus they
fell vicftims to their own imprudence and intoxi
cation. The mangled bodies of these three men
were found ; and after a minute inveftigationic
does not appear that any other person whatever
was either killed or hurt by the explosion, so lit
tle truth was there in the report which at iirlt
prevailed, that the Lord de Quince, through ha
tred to the popular caufe,had blown up his guests,
whom, for the mod liellifh purpose, he had invi
ted to his house. Had this unfortunate, but in
nocent gentleman, fallen into the hands of the
people immediately after this accident happened,
and before they were cool enough to reflect, and
enquire into the cafe,there is 110 doubt but he
would have been made to fuffer the mod cruel
death, that the people could devise, who in inflict
ing would think that they were doing a meritor
ious deed, and an atft of justice.
" All the Swiss soldiers who were quartered at
Courbevoix, deserted, the 7th, Bth, and 9th inft.
They took with them from their barracks every
article of value that they could remove."
INTELLIGENCE I',Y THE LAST MAIL.
PHILADELPHIA, Odlober 27.
Extract of a letter from Kentucky, Sept. 29, 17^9*
" The Indians having committed of late many
depredations 011 our frontiers, an expedition was
formed by Col. John Ha rung, with 200 men,
in order to invade the Indian country —this body
of volunteers mar ched from the fallsoftlie Ohio,
011 the 26th of August, directly for the Wabafh
they arrived in good order, without the loss ofs
single man—on reaching the Indians settlement
oh the Wabafh, they were opposed by a party of
about 30 Indians, whom they soon attacked and
defeated—the Indians leaving fix dead and nine
wounded, with a good deal of plunder on the
field. After this defeat, Col. Harlingpenetrate
further up the river, towards the Indian tours,
which were all evacuated by the enemy—the
corps then returned, after deftroyingone ot the"
towns, their cattle, corn, &c. and arrived at tie
falls on the 28th of September, without lofmg 3
man. The report which has for some time pa
been spread of Mr. Jacob Funck being killed y
the Indians is erroneous, being still in this coun
try, and well."
The Legifiature of New-Jersey will meet oh
Tuesday the 27th, at the City of Perth-Am o,'0 ,'
for jthe dispatch of the business of the
when, amongst other matters of importance,
choice of a Governor will not hold the o«
rank. The distinguished character that has u
the chair from the firft dawn of American n
pendence, presided in the midst of danger* ■
lent an helping hand to the formation or a
ftitution, the result of the united efforts 0
bravelt and wisest of our American fathe' S■
pofleflcs the hearts, will unqueftionabl\y, ' ,j , ■
tsforc obtain the unanimous fuffrages of a ,
Legifiature.SPRINGFIELD, October 21.
On Saturday last arrived in town from New-
York, His Excellency JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Pre
sident of the United States of America, accom
panied by The Most Hon. TRISTRAM DALTON,
one of the Senators from this State to the Nation
al Congress : On the Monday following they pro
ceeded on their journey to the eastward. How
pleasing the idea, that the moil venerable and
respectable chara&ersof our Federal Legillature,
pay I'uch ftriet attention to the sabbath.—That
time, which is by many gentlemen too often ap
propriated to serve their temporal interests, in
journeying, &c. is spent byonr national rulers in
such a manner, as, while it reflects the higlieft
honor on our holy religion, mud be considered as
a gentle rebuke to tliofe whole conducft 011 such
days, as occalion offers, is truly reprehenlible.
HARTFORD, OCTOBER 26.
The Illustrious President of the Unlted
States with his Suite, arrived in this city on
Monday last, escorted by the Governor's troop of
hrfrfe guards, drefledin an elegant uniform; and
by a large number of gentlemen on horseback.
Tuesday he spent the day in town—went to view
the various branches of woolen manufacture, and
exprefled great fatisfadlion at the progress which
had been made in that ufeful undertaking. On
Wednesday, he proceeded on his tour to the Eas
tern States. The Corporation exprefled their
own sentiments andthofeof their fellow-citizens
in the following address :
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
S I R,
THE Mayor, Aldermen, and Common Council
of the City of Hartford, beg leave most re
fpedfully to congratulate the Prelident of the U
nited States 011 his accefiion to the high office of
Chief Magistrate ; and with cordial hearts to wel
come his arrival in this City.
Wefeelourfelves bound by every tie of duty and
patriotism to acknowledge, in common with the
people of America, our gratitude for your fig nal
and disinterested services during the late war ; by
which the citizens of the United States have been
protected in their claims for libtrty and indepen
dence.—That you have been pleased torelinquilh
the pleasures of retirement, to ensure, by a wile
administration, the continuance of those bleflings
to the people. —Also to profefs our sincere attach
ment to your person, and determination to support
the honor and welfare of your government.
THOMAS SEYMOUR, Mayor.
To which the Pre ft dent was pleased to return the
following answer.
T0 the Ma yo R, Ald ERm EN, and Co mMo NCo uN -
CIL, of the City of HARTFORD.
GENTLEMEN,
GRATEFUL- f or the favorable difpoptien difco
vcrcd towards me in your address, Ireceive your con
gratulations withpleafure, and I thank yourgoodnefs
with jincerity.
The indulgent partiality with which my fellow-citi
tizens are pleased to regard my public fervtces, is
the mo]} acceptable compensation they can receive, and
amply rewards them.
While industry gives an ajfurance of plenty, andrt
fpc[lfor the taws maintains the harmony offociety, there
is every reason to hope for the individual happiness oj
our citizens, and the dignity of our government, in
(midud like yours.
G. WASHINGTON.
Hartford, Oflober 21, 1759-
BOSTON, October 24.
OnThurfday last, Jol'eph Barrel, Samuel Breck,
and William Euftis, Kfquires, a sub-committee of
the committee of the town, for making arrange
ments for the reception of THE PRESIDEN 1 of
the United States, fat out to meet that illustrious
character at Worcester; from whence they return
ed last evening, having had an interview with
him at 10 o'clock yesterday, in which they in
formed him of the wishes of our citizens—-and
although the Prelident was desirous to come into
town iti a private manner—yet to gratify the in
habitants, he cheerfully altered his arrangements
foas to coincide with thole of the town.
We are sorry to learn, that the vilit of our be
loved Prelident will be but short—and that 011
Thursday he will let out for Portsmouth.
The bells will ring fifteen minutes 011 the arri
val of the Prelident.
We are told, that the Viscount de PONTEVES,
and the Captains of His Most Chriltian Majesty s
Squadron, have declined accepting the invitation
of the Committee of Arrangements to take a leat
•11 the balcony ereified at the State-House on the
arrival of the Prelident, as the ordinances of their
King require them to be on board their ships when
the Chief Magistrate of a nation arrives at the
place in which they lay, to give him the cuftotnary
salutes. After the Prelident has taken his resi
dence, we hear, the Officers, attended by the
Hon. Consul of France, will proceed thereto, and
pty him their respects.
At Mrs. Ingerso ll's lioufe, in Court-Street,
preparations are making to accommodate 1 H. L .
PRESIDENT of the United States—at which
place he will reside during his stay in this town.
the ladies,
lii honor of THE PRESIDENT, have agreed
(a correspondent informs us) to wear the follow
ing DEVICE in a falh—abroad white ribon, with
G. W. in gold letters (or lpangles) encircled with
a laurel wreath in front—oil one end of the sash
to be painted the Amir 'tcan Eagle, and 011 the other
a Fleur de lit.
The Selectmen have ordered the streets to be
cleared and cleaned from the State House to the
head of IVajhington-Street.
SHIP NEWS.
Arrived at Portsmouth the (lup Hannah, Capt. Turner, from
Cape-Francois, in 21 clays. Markets low—very low indeed.
Not a peifon is to be ieen at the Cape (or indeed at any of s he
French mands) without the National Cockade in his hat, blue
and white —and Vive la Nation all the cry.
PORTSMOUTH, October 20.
It is now beyond a doubt that THE PRESIDENT
of the United States will visit this town, and
thereby afford the citizens thereof an opportuni
ty of paying their respects to the man whom
Heaven hasfeletted from the millions of Ameri
ca, to hold the sceptre of peace and wield the
sword of war. Already we anticipate the ardor
which will pervade our fellow-citizens on so hap
py,an occasion—aged, middle aged, old and young
—the venerable matron, and the sprightly virgin
—the hulbandman—the Rev. Clergy—the Bar—
Merchants—Mechanics—Laborers—all of every
rank and order, with united hearts and voices,
welcoming their Father, Friend, and (under
Heaven) their PROTECTOR, to the capital of
New-Hani pfhire.
THE IRISH PEASANT.
LOOK at him, courteous readers ! that poor
peasant, with all the feelings incident to hu
man nature, with a heart as truly brave and no
ble as that which animated an Alexander, with a
proportion of the milk of human kindness flowing
through all his veins, and perhaps too the de
fcendent of Irish Nobility, nay, of Irish Kings
and Chieftains, is now laboring hard to support
a wife, an aged mother, and eleven children, up
-0114 d. a day, out of which he pays £.2 a year for
his wretched hovel, (inferior by far to anorthern
pig ltye) a ridge of potatoe ground ; so that for
the maintenance of fourteen persons he has about
£.6 If. Bd. a year, from which, if we deduct the
tithe of his little garden, his opprellive hearth
money tax, his minister's monies and his priest's
dues, our wretched peasant and all his family will
have about £.5 3. year for clothes,tobacco and main
tenance, upon an average less a great deal than
if. annually a head. But that is not the worftof
the matter, for in some parts of the kingdom this
brave, this generous fellow, who would:fhare his
potatoe and water with all his heart with a Arran
ger, the mendicantand the friendlefs, is used more
cruelly than a negro Have, not only by the ty
rant his landlord and master, but by the grip
ing avaricious procftor, the inercilefs hearth mo
ney man, and every creature round him who can
afford to wear, eat, and drink better than himfelf.
His family, alas, are totally naked ! That old flan
nel jacket and broken sheepskin breeches, all his
cloathing throughout the different seasons of the
year; a dirty wad of straw, more resembling lit
ter from its sge,thebed of ware fortlie whole fa
mily ; with the addition of a pig, if he is lucky
enough to have one; a ragged cadow, and a pot
to boil their potatoes; all their worldly effects, if
so lucky as to have been able to screen them from
the rapacious clav.s of the fmokeman and his con
ttable—Potatoes, as I said before, their only vi
ands, the limpid Itreain their beverage, and cow
and horse dung their fuel ! —Heavenly powers !
such wretchedness is hardly supportable !—lean
110 more !
Prelates and Kings may (lomifh or may fade,
A breath can make them, as a breatli has made;
But a bold peasantry a nation's pride, ,
If once destroyed can never be supplied.
Goldsmith.
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 31.
The President of the United States arrived
at Cambridge, Maflachufetts, on-Saturday last—
where he was received by the third division of
the Middle!ex militia, confuting of 1000 men, in
complete uniform, under the command of the
Hon. Major-General Brooks.
The Lieutenant Governor and Council of the
Commonwealth (the Governor being indisposed)
escorted by Col. Tyler's light dragoons, with a
large number of other'gentlemen, met the Pre
sident at Cambridge, from w hence they attended
him to the metropolis.
Between the hours of two and three P. M. he
arrived at Bofton—lt is said his intention was to
have entered the town by the way of Cliarlef
town Bridge ; but at the requelt of a refpe<ftable
committee from the inhabitants, and to coincide
with the wishes of the people, and the arrange
ments made for his reception, he was pleased to
alter his route, and accordingly made his entry
at the fouthpartofthe town, amidlt the plaudits
of an immense multitude of grateful, free and
loyal citizens. The Bells immediately began a
joyful peal.—A grand procelfion was formed,
consisting of the civil, clerical, and military pro
fellions, with the various branches of trade, arts,
and manufactures—\vliU-h witli .1 furrou*uling
concourse, (aid to amount to upwards of 20,000
perlons, attended Th :: Pre si dent tothc State-
House—where the whole proceiTion palled in re
view before him.
The independent military companies, from
thence, escorted him to liis lodgings in Courr
flreet —where they fired a salute, and were dil -
milled. The transactions of this joyous day were
conducted without the lealt accident, or confu
lion.
L'Active, and le Senstbt e, two frigatesbe-
I longing to the division of His Molt Criltian Ma
jelly's navy, under the command of the Right
Hon. TheVilcount dePonteves, were beau
tifully illuminated in the evening—and fire works
exhibited from 011 board.
The public buildings of the town were like
wise illuminated, and fire-works dilplayed in the
moll public ltreets.
The Procession of the people in Bolton mult
be considered as the greatest mark of attention
that they could polfibly exhibit to teftify their ve
neration for The President of the United
States—This was the mode they chose to express
their feelings 011 the ratification of the Con
stitution ; an event that excited sensations of
pleasure, and rapture in the public mind, superi
or to any tranfaiftion recorded, or that could
then be conceived.
On Tuesday laft> tliere was to be an Oratorio at
the Chapel Church in Bolton—it was expedted
the President would honor the performance
with his presence.
The universal andfpontaneous efFufions ofgra
titudeand refpedl, which are discovered by the
people to The President of the United States,
in every stage of his progress through the ealtem
States, afford the livelielt and ftrongelt teflimo
nies oftheirattachment to this illultrious charac
ter—they are, to a feeling heart, and as he beau
tifully exprefles it in his answer to the Hartford
Address, "the molt acceptable compensation for
public services"—while at the fame time they
are the highelt compliment to the patriotilin ami
goodfenfeof the people.
When we read accounts of the triumphal en
tries of the Roman conquerors, with wretched
vidlinis dragged at their chariot wheels, how funk
and depraved does human nature appear ! Can it
be pollible tliata people who took delightin such
fpeiftacles of barbarity, ever felt a sentiment of
generous freedom ? No—it cannot be fuppofeel
that they ever did. Their boalted freedom, and
love of liberty, conlilted in a power and disposi
tion to humble, and enslave all the world beside.
With what propriety then are their examples cit
ed as models for the imitation of the free, and
enlightened citizens of the American Republic ?
The people of the United States love good go
vernment—and their honelt and conliltent patri
ots are refpeifted to a degree of veneration—Nor
can an inltance be pointed out of their everde
ferting, or ceasing to express the ltrongeft at
tachment to their civil rulers, where abilities and
integrity are united, and the public mind has fair
play.—But as men of honelty, and fair princi
ples, are more liable to impolition, than charac
ters long prac r ti fed in the arts of deceit, and cun
ning—so the generous confidence of the people is
often betrayed,by themilreprefentations of those,
whose interell cannot be advanced, while honest
men Itand in their way, or enjoy the public
elteeni.
EXTRACTS.
" Allpolitical edifices that are not built and sus
tained upon this foundation, of defending the
weak againfl the oppretfor, mult tumble into a tyran
ny, even worse than anarchy.
"To fence and establish the divinely inherent
right, of security to the person and property of man,
has been the Itudy and attempt of all legislators,
and systems of civil polity, that ever warmed the
world with a fingleray of freedom.
" Butfo flrong is the propensity to usurpation
in man ; so dangerous is it to tempt individual or
collective truflees with the investiture of uncoil
troulable power ; so difficult to -watch the Watchers,
reflrain the Rejlrainers, from injustice ; that whe
ttierthe government were committed to the One,
the Few,or the Many, the parties entrulled have
generally proved traitors ; and deputed power
has almolt perpetually been seized upon as pro
perty.
| Cj® The Editor has received a paper from Boston
containing some particulars of the procession ; but as
the Printers fay it was compiled in hatle, he hopes to
be able to give a correal account next week.
(£3* IF JOHN BAYES, who latch lived with a Farmer at Pe
tapfco-Nech, near Baltimore, andformerly from Northampton [hire jn
England, or his fori William Baves, zoho lived n ith Robert Rohert-
Jon, tavern-keeper, in Redminjler-Townfhip, Penn fxlvania, are living
andwill fend an account of themselves, and where they are, or either of
them may le found, to SAMUEL F.LAM, at Newport, Rlwde-lfland,
they will hear of something to their advantage. Information of the dc
ccafe of either of those pcrfons, (should such an event have happened)
would be ejleemed a favor, directed as above.
New-York, O&ober 21, 1789.
WAN VED, to complete Files of this paper, numbers 30,40, 43,
44 46, and 48 : Six pence each will be paid for eithe* of those number*
at'the office of the Editor. Ofleber 24,THE OBSERVER. No. 11.
The Nation which would be fcrved by Men of honejly
and great abilities, mujl pay well.
IN my excilrfiond tliro several parts of New Eng
land, I have noticed a class of citizens, who
complain ot the compensations allowed by Con
gress to the principal officers of government.
The liberal character of the Americans is an
evidence that those complaints arise more from
their ilrong jealousy for liberty, than from parfi
nicny. A jealous concern for public liberty is a
noble paifion, which will guard the freedom of
yourpolterity, but at the fame time it needs the
rigid correction of reason. A weak and ignorant
administration is one common means of subvert
ing popular rights. Those very principles in the
human mind, which make men jealous of their
liberty, without restraint, will lead tliem into
licentiousness.
The end of a good government is to divide
out liberty in proper portions to every citizen,that
all may be free, and none opprefled. In a state of
anarchy, every neighbour becomes a tyrant in
his own little sphere of afflicting ; in absolute
governments there are few tyrants, awful in their
course—and to approach them is approaching
death. If youmuftbe wretched, it matters little
whether the minister of a prince or an ill-natured
neighbour be the instrument. Civil government
is the only poflible guard against these evils. If
you were a nation of slaves, the l'word, bayonet
and prison would give efficacy to the ineafures of
weak and unprincipled rulers ; but you are free,
and if governed at all, men of high talents and
approved integrity, your most literary and indus
trious citizens mult be called into employment.
Such men never have need to beg business, for the
refonrces of their own minds and their applica
tion is a fund of wealth. If the public design to
have their services, the reward must be adequate
to their abilities, and bear some proportionto the
gains they make in private life.
No man will leave a private employment, which
promises him a thousand dollars per annum, for
an office of half the sum, in which he is respon
sible to the public opinion, and perhaps endan
gers thelofs of his reputation forwifdom ; a facri
tice for which no pecuniary fatisfaclion can be
made. Honor or the pnblic notice may with a
few be an inducement ; but these few areperfons
of great vanity, and have not the abilities for a
difficult or confidential trust. Men of difcern
nient, and such you want, know how to estimate
their own consequence in the State, they know
that if for the present you employ mean abilities
for the fake of being served at a cheap rate, the
public system will soon be deranged, and that you
mult then purchase their aid at such price as they
please. It is a better way to commence your
government on such principles as will be perma
nent. Let public officers be few, and make them
responsible both for their capacity and lionefty.
It is too much the custom of this country to pity
a man,who fays " I did as well as I knew." Igno
rance ought to be no excuse before the sacred
tribunal of the public. He who accepts an office
doth it at his own ril'que, and there are as many
reasons why he ffiould bear the consequence of
incapacity as of knavery. Make this the known
rule for decision on public characters, and the
ignorant seekers of office will become less trouble
some in their solicitations. Give an honorable
reward which will command the service of your
mod distinguished citizens, to whatever depart
ment they are called. Such men have a character
to lose, and ambition will unite with every other
consideration to call forth their greatelt exer
tions.
If this proposal doth not please, it is easy to
change the system, for in every country there are
rogues and dunces in plenty, who will serve you
at any price : but remember that the first
WILL CHEAT YOU OUTOf THOUSANDS, AND THE
LATTER DISSIPATE MILLIONS BY THEIR IGNO
RANCE.
The compensations determined by Congress,
are as small as can possibly command the service
of your bell characters—a left sum by throwing
the execution of your government into unfkilful
hands would have endangered the whole. The
pay of the Senate and Commons great as it may
found in the ears of some, circumftanccs being
all considered, is not extravagant. It is a preva
lent idea through the union that these gentlemen
lliall hold no other office under the empire or
particular States—moftofthem toferveyouliave
relinquillied lucrative employments—after the
firft year Congress will not probably be together
more than fifty days in a year—tho' your repre
fentativesbe encreaf'ed, the expenceof a legisla
ture will be much less than the funis given by the
several States to support the members of the old
Congress. Your whole civil lift, including every
department, would not half defray the lioufhold
exp ences of an European Prince. The highest
officers in your judiciary, and revenue, have not a
better provision than grooms of the stable, noble
keepers of hawks andhounds, and dependants still
more infignificant than thofe,receive in other na
tions from theliands of Royalty. Useless officers
are the vermin of a State, but foma officers are
necessary to its very exiftenee. Let them be few
as poflible, but men of approved ability—pay
them well—make them relponfible—and if after
this any are unfaithful, demand what atonement
you please, it will not be too severe.
NEW-YORK, October 31, 1789.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sept. 19, 1 789.
GENERAL ESTIMATE of MONEY requisite for the WAR
DEPARTMENT,/<w the year 1789.
PAY of the TROOPS.
ARTILLERY.
fiols 90ths.
1 MAJOR, 12 Months, at 45 Dol. per Month, 540
4 C*ptains, 35 1,680
8 Lieutenants, 30 2,930
1 Surgeon's Mate, 30 360
16 Sergeants, 6 i>*s2
16 Corporate, 5 960
8 Musicians, 5 480
8 Artificers, 5 480
232 MatroflTes, 4 11,136
19,668
INFANTRY.
1 Brigadier-General, with the pay of Lieute
tenant-Colonel-Commandant, for 12 Months, at
50 Dol. per month, 600
« Majors, 45 1,080
7 Captains, 35 2,940
7 Lieutenants, 30 2,520
8 Ensigns, 20 >,920
1 Pay-Master, 10 120
1 Quarter-Mailer, 10 120
1 Adjntant, 10 120
1 Surgeon, 45 54 0
4 Surgeon's Mates, 30 1,440
28 Sergeants, 6 2,016
28 Corporals, 5 1,680
14 Drums and Fife*, 5 840
490 Privates, 4 23,520
39>45 G
SUBSISTENCE.
1 Brig. Gen. 12 Months, at 48 Dol. per Month, 576
3 Majors, 20 720
11 Captain;, 12 >158+
23 Subalterns, 8 2,208
l Surgeon, 16 192
4 Mates, 8 384
Rations tor 840 Non-Commiffioncd Officers and
Privates, at one Ration per day each, are, for 365
days, 307,440 Rations, at 17 gothsofa Dollar, per
Ration, 40,990
46,848
Cloathing, 840 ) 940 Suits at 26 Dollars
Contingencies, too J each, *4-44°
130,412
QUARTER-MASTER s DEPARTMENT.
Tranfportation,including the Transportation of
the Recruits raising in Philadelphia, to the Fron
tiers, the Transportation of Cloathing, Medicines,
Ordinance and Military Stores for the Troopson the
Frontiers, the ncceflary removal of Ordinance and
Military Stores, the hire of Teams, Pack-Horses,
Tents, Boats, Axes, Camp-Kettles, Boards, Fire-
Wood,Company-Books, Stationary for the Troops,
and all other expenses in the Quarter-Mafter'i Di
partment, 10,000
HOSPITAL.
For Medicincs, Instruments, Furniture and
Stores for an Hospital for the Frontiers, also for at
tendance when neceflary at Weft-Point and Spring
field, 1,000
ORDINANCE DEPARTMENT.
For Salaries to the Store-keepers at their several
deposits, viz.
Wtft-Point, I
Virginia, f3,at 40 Dol. per Month, 1,440
Springfield, )
Charlcfton, 1 Store-keeper, at 100 Dol. perann. 100
? Assistants at 15 Dol. per month, 360
1 Store-keeper at Philadelphia, 500
1 do. Rhode-Island, 96
1 do. Lancaftcr, g6
1 do. Fort Harkemer, 120
His Subsistence, 1 dollar per week, 52
.172
Rents of Buildings for Deposits.
Philadelphia. 6a
Virginia, , j0
Weft-Point, 400
-1,50 a 60
Laborers at the several deposits, 400
Repairs of Arms, 10,000
Cleaning 30,000 Muflcets, at 12 goths, 4,000
18,666 60
Contingencies of the War Department, 3,000
Contingencies of the War Office, 800
Salaries of the officers, 3,95°
Carried forward, 167,828 60
Cop)' °J the original File,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
(SignedJ H. KNOX.
Dots. 90ths.
Brought forward, 167,82860
Dcdutt the amount of the Salaries of the
Officers,
Ditto for Contingencies, 800
which are estimated 111 the Civil Lift, 4,75°
(Or dollars 163,078, and 66 Cents.) 163,078 60
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary oj the Treasury.
Treasury Department, September 19, 1789.
AESTRjICT of JOURN AL of tht first sessi on of thi SENATE
cj the UNITED STATES.
F R I DAY, May I.
The Report of the joint Committee, to whom was recommitted,
the mode of communication between the Senate and House of Re
prcfentatives.as made by the Committee on the part of the Senate,
was taken up and not accepted.
The fame report of the Committee on the part of the House, and
the acceptance thereof by the House vas conftdered in the Senate,
and it was deteimined that it should lie until further order.
A motion, "Thatwhcna mcfTenger shall come from the House
of Rcprcfentativcs to the Senate, and Ihall be announced by the
door keeper, the incfi'engcr shall be received at the bar of this House
by tit Secretary, and the b ill or pspcr that he may bring, shaH iherc
be received from him by Iht Secrdarv, who (lull deliver'
Prefideni of the Senate," was committed to Mr. Ellfwortn
Lee, and Mr. Read. And the Committer were inftrufted't
port a mode of fending bills and melTa.es from the Sen... lit
House of Representatives. Adjourned. 1
SATURDAY, May 2 .
Agreed, That until a permanent mode of comunicjtion f u
be adopted between the Senate and House of Reprefeniative '
Senate will receive mefljges by the Clerk of the House, if theH r
lhall think proper to fend him, and papers sent from the H"I =
(hall be delivered to the Secretary at the bar of the Senate
hnn be conveyed to the President. ' 7
A mefiage from the House of Representatives, bv Mr r»ai
their Clerk. ' ' cckk '/>
Mr. President,
" I AM commanded bv the Hoi; ft- of Representatives, tobrin
to the Senate, the proceedings of the House on a resolution of tit'
Senate, of the 27th of April : Also to communicate to the Setiaf
the appointment of the Reverend Willi jm Lynn, D. D. to be on'
of the Chaplains to Congress, agreeably to the resolves of the i-°th
of April,"—And he withdrew. 0
The concurrence of the House of Representatives on the tefol.e
of the 17th, is as follows:
" In the House of Representatives of the United Stat~
" the 29th of April, 1789.
" The House proceeded taconfider the following refolutionof
the Senate, to wit,
" In Senate April 27th, 1789.
" Refohed, That after the oath (ball have been adminifteredt,
th« President, he, attended by the Vice Picfident, and the Mem
ber< of the Senate, and House of Representatives, proceed toSt"
Paul's Chapel, to hear divine service to be performed by the Chapl
lain of Congress, already appointed—whereupon,
" Resolved, That this House doth concur in the said resolution
amended and read as followeth, to wit,
" That after the oath (hall have been administered to the Pre.
fident, the Vice President, and Memberi of the Senate, the Speaker
and Members of the House of Representatives, will accompany h !m
toSt. Paul's Chapel, to hear divine service performed by the Chip.
lain of Congress."
Mr. Strong, by order of the Committee appointed the 28thof
April, on a bill patted the House of Representatives, entitled"Aii
aflto regulate the time and manner of administering certain oaths,"
reported fundiy amendments ; and Monday next was aligned 13
take the fame into consideration. Adjourned.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
October 31.
Jamaica Spirits, ... ft
Antigua Rum, ...
St. Croix, do. - . wft.
Country, do. - - jy lo .
Molafles, ... s y 2- „ 2 y,_
Brandy, ... .fa. „ S r
Geneva, ' " ' SJ3-
Do. in cases, . . s (\r a 2 gf.
Muscovado Sugar, - . 80/ a jtf.
Loaf, do. . - 1/3.
Lump, do. - . Wij,
Pepper, ... 3/".
Pimento, - 4 2T
Coffee, - - iji. a ljg.
Indigo, (Carolina) » - a 6/i
Rice, - - 24f. a 23f.
Superfine Flour, - . -
Common do. - - 43f. &
Rye do. « . 26/1 a sjf.
Indian Meal, - - • iß£
4Q\f. pr. bujh.
Com, (Southern) - 4f.
Do. (Northern,) - 4/*. a 4/6.
Beef, firft quality, - r 48/r a 50/ C
Pork, firit quality, » - Bi_/&.
Oats, - - - 1/7.
Flax-feed, - . - 6f-
Ship bread per cwt. - - 2\f.
Country refined bar-iron* - 281. a 301.
Do. bloomery, - . 25L
Swede* do. - 451.
Ruflia do. . » 30].
Pig-iron, - - 81 10fa 91.
German steel, per lb. - - 9d.
Nails American, by cask. per. lb. 4d. - 12*/.
Do. do. do. 6d. - - 11 J.
Do. do. do. Bd. - - gj*/.
Do. do. do. lOd.
Do. do. do* i2d. f . , 0,7
Do. do. do. 2od r T* a i '
Do. do. do, 24d. )
Pot ash, per ton, •» . 391. a 40/,
Pearl ash, - „ 481 501.
Becs-wax per lb. - - 2^3.
Mackaiel per barr. - » 26f. a 30j.
Herrings, - 1 bf.
Mahogany, Jamaica, per foot, • IoL
Dominico, do. - • 9^
Honduras, do. - - » 7<L
Logwood unchipped, per ton. - • 81.
Do. chipped. - 14U
2 inchywhite oak plank, per m. • 101. 10[.
1 inch do. - - s'-
2 inch white pine plank, - - 81.
1J inch do. - - 61. 10/ I
1 inch do. - 31. i°A
2 inch pitch pine do. - •
1J inch do. r - 61. lo f>
1 inch do. - 4''
Pitch pine scantling, - - ?/•
Cyprus 2 feet shingles, - - *1-
Do. 22 inch do. s » - *!• \l-
Cedar 2 inch do. - - lo s
Do. 22 inch do. - -
Do. 18. inch do. 1 V
Butt white oak staves, - - 3
Pipe do. do. - - - 9'-
Hogftiead do. do. •» - 61* iO J*
Do. do. heading, - * *
IrisH barrel do. staves, - ~ 5J-
Hogftiead red oak do. - - s*' 5/"
Do. French do. - » 5
Hogshead hoops,. - Vj
White oak square timber per square foot* ! ° •
Red wood, per ton k - - '
Fuftick, - - ' r
Beaver, per lb. . - 12/. a to/-
Otter per Ikin, 9r 3y'
Grey fox, - V 7'
Martin, ... 47'
Racoon, - . - 3/ 6 3 Vj
Mufkrat, ... iod.<"¥-
Beavcr hats, . -
Callor do. ... - 4 J"
Publifked by JOHN FENNO, No. 9^^']
L «ii e, ncarthe Ofwcgc-Markct, Ntw-losK. t 3