[No. Lll.]
THE TABLE T.—No. LII.
<< When a man doth think of any thing that is pa ft,
jie lookith down upon the ground ; but when he think
tth of something that is to come, he looketh up towards
the heavens."
THE lively image, we form of approaching
pleasures, constitutes une of the molt
fiiblime sources of human felicity. There is
fcarcea man in the universe, in the vigor of life,
whose heart is not often exhilirated with the
hopesof feeing better days. Nature has provid
ed the charms of anticipation to coiifole us under
the preflurd of past misfortunes and to ftiinulate
us into new efforts. It exonerates part of the
load we lhould ottferwife bear from acftual evils,
and relieves the painful impressions that are apt
to be excited upon a retrofpeetive view of our
affairs.
. No man, however pure and elevated may be
his principles, however prudent and fortunate
may be his condud:, can look back 011 the differ
ent stages of his existence without some sensa
tions of disapprobation and sorrow. His reflec
tions can never produce such a degree of appro
bation and rapture as to afford a permanent and
infallible security againftthe aflails of a vexatious
or a melancholy spirit. The reflections even of
a good man can not alone infule ardour and trans
port into the foul. He mull imagine as well as
refledt. A young man bows down his head,when
he thinks of what is past ; and elevates it, when
he looks into future scenes. An old man ceases
to feel pleasure in what is before him, he is dif
fatisfied with what is past, and his head is perpetu
ally bowed down.
Old men, as well as others, may derive con
solation from anticipating the happiness of a fu
ture state of existence. But it is the clefign of
this difcuflion only to treat of anticipation as a
natural operation of the mind, and to suggest how
far fuperiorits pleasures generally are to those of
reflection. It would be well for men to attend
more closely to the struCture of their mental qua
lities ; and to bring themselves into such habits
of contemplation as will render old age less in
iupportable than inoft men find it.
The reflections that follow a life devoted to
the cause of honor and virtue are no doubtafource
of some felicity. It is worthy the pursuit of every
person, if it had no other advantage than what
refultsmerely from reflecting 011 it. Butthecon
ftitution of our nature is such, that our lively,
tranfpofting pleasures imift proceed from anti
cipation. Old men gain, by an attachment to
certain habits, part of what they lose in the di
ininilhed vigor of their anticipations. It is
therefore of importance that all men ihould form
such habits, as will not be unworthy a rational
being in the last periods of his continuance 011
earth ; and such as will probably best aflimilate
with that purer state of existence, of which, as
she dodtrines of our religion inform us, all good
r.ien will participate.
EARLY MARRI4GE.
Original Letter from Dr. Franklin to John
Alleyne, Efq'.
dear jack,
YOU desire, you fay, my impartial thoughts
on the f«bje<ft of an early marriage, by way of
answer to the numberless objections which have
been made by numerous persons to your own.
You may remember when you consulted ine on the
occasion, that I thought youth on both fides to be
no objedlion. Indeed, from the marriages which
have fallen under my observation, I am rather
inclined to think that early ones stand the best
chance for happiness. The tempers and habits of
the young are not yet become so ftiff and uncom
plyingas when more advanced in life; they form
more easily to each other, and hence many occa
sions of difgull are removed. And if youth has
less of that prudence which is neceflary to ma
nage a family, yet the parent and elder friends
°* young married persons are generally at hand,
to afford their advice, which amply fuppliestliat
ilefedt; and by early marriage youth is sooner
formed to regular and ufeful life ; and poflibly
femie of those accidents or connections that might
have injured the constitution or reputation, or
\°th, are thereby happily prevented. Particular
wcumftances of particular persons may possibly
Sometimes make it prudent to delay entering in
to that state ; but in general, when nature lias
rendered our bodies fit for it, the presumption is
in nature's favor, that lhe has not judged amiss
m makingus desire it. Late marriages arc often
attended too with this further inconvenience,
t"at there is not the fame chance that the parents
'> hall live to fee their offspring educated. Late
'■'Iren, fays the Spanifli proverb, are early or-
SATURDAY, October io,
phans ; a melancholy reflection to thoie whole
cafe it may be ! With us in America, marriages
are generally in the morning of our life ; our
children are therefore educated and fettled in
the world by noon ; and thus our bufinefj being
done, we have an afternoon and evening of cheer
ful leisure to ourselves, such r our friend at
present enjoys. By these early marriages, we are
blest with more children, and from the mode a
niong us, founded by nature, of every mother
suckling and nurfbigher own child, more of them
are railed. Thence the fvvift progress of popu
lation among us, unparalleled in Europe. In
fine, lam glad you are married, and congratulate
you most cordially upon it. You are now in the
way of becoming a ufeful citizen, and you have
escaped the unnatural Itate of celibacy for life,
the fate of many here who never intended it, but
who, having too long postponed the change of
their condition, find at length that it is too late
to think of it ; and so live all their lives in a situ
ation that greatly leflens a man's value—an odd
volume of a set of books bears not the value of
its proportion to the set—What think you of the
odd half of a pair of fciflars ?—it can't well cut
any—it may poilibly lerve to scrape a trencher.
Pray make my compliments and belt wishes ac
ceptable to yt)ur bride. lam old and heavy, or
I fliould ere this have presented them in perfori.
1 shall make but fniall use of the old man's privi
lege, that of giving advice to younger friends.
Treat your wife always with refpeift; it will pro
cure refpetfl to you, not from her only, but from
all that observe it. Never use a flighting expreflion
to her, even in jest ; for flight in jest, after fre
quent bandyings, are apt to end in angry earnest.
Be studious in your profeffion, and you will be
learned. Be induflrious and frugal, and you will
be rich. Be sober and temperate, and you will
be healthy. Be in general virtuous, and you will
be liappy ! At least you will by such conduct,
stand the best chance for such consequences. I
pray God to bless you both ! being ever your
affectionate friend, B. F.
RINCJVORMS, ITCH, be.
THIS is a cutaneous distemper very common
among the Europeans in Bengal, as well as among
the natives ; and as the disorder is very preva
lent in this conntry also, we present our readers
with the following extra<sl, containing a remedy
for so diftreffitig a complaint, which has hitherto
frequently baffled the firft medical abilities.
Extrafl of a letter from a gentleman of the Faculty
at Fort St. George, to Dotlor B. of the Bengal
ejlablifhment.
" SirPAUL Joddrf.li., from his skill in Botany,
has made a discovery which is likely to prove of
the greatest importance to the health and ease of
Europeans in India.; and will tend to the extirpa
tion of that cruel and most tormenting of all ma
ladies the Ringworms ; and the remedy is as
simple as it is efficacious. It consists in nothing
more than a frequent embrocation, or friiftion of
the parts where the eruption prevails, with
common mujhroom ketchup. This remedy, simple as
it appears,has never been known to fail in remov
ing the ringworms, Itch, orany other cutaneous
eruption, after every other nostrum has failed.
" Sir Paul accounts for the efficacy of this Ve
getable Curative, in the known noxious proper
ty of the u'ulhroom to all animalcula. The solu
tion or ellence of this Fungus is proved by this
discovery, to bear such enmity to the minute in
fed; which is the occult cause of this disorder,
that it immediately perforates the cuticle, and
totally extirminates the infection. The experi
ment is ealy, and a trial is recommended to those
afflicted with ringworms, tetters, or eruptions of
any kind."
The " Worcester Speculator" is an excellent writer
in Mr. Thomas' Majfachufetts' Spy. —We have fre
quently enriched the Miscellany of the Gazette, by
extrafls from his publications—and we doubt
not the following o'ofervations andfaßs from his 6yd
number will be generally acceptable.
" THE times arc truly hard, and so will they
ever be when intemperance-prevails—when the
people prefer the dissipation of a tavern to the
cultivation of their fields. But happily for the
community these habits seem now to be fact
growing into disrepute ; and temperance, econo
my,and industry seem now tobeefteemed objects
of importance : And experience will probably
soon convince us, that we can labor as well, and
enjoy our health better without inflammable spirits
than with them. Probably not a quarter part so
much rum has been drank in this part ofthecoun
trv the last year as was in the space of a year
at the close of the war. Some of our principal
retailers have nor, if we can believe their afler-
\_PtibfiJhed on IVednefday and Saturday.
tions, fold so many pints of run the la!i ye:r.-
as they did gallons the year before ; and then
the quantity was much diminished from that
which was fold a few years earlier. Our taverns
too are generally still and quiet, and rarely do
we find people of the vicinity resorting to them,
but on business of l'ome public occasion. Many
of our principal farmers, in different parts of the
country,have nobly broke through the pernicious
custom of treating their laborers with rum ; and
they will not employ tliofe who will not serve
them without fpiritous liquors. And they have
found their account in it the present year —for
it has been very obferveable in the course ot the
past fumiher, that tliofe who have hired without
supplying with 'spirits have had the bell work
men and a plenty of them, and their wcrk has
been done the most neatly and with the greateil
dispatch.
The mechanics also in many places, and efpecs
ally the moll reputable of them, have almost for
faken theil cups. And men of business of all
kinds appear to be convinced that they can con
duct their affairs better without fpiritous liquors
than with them. In this way a great saving has
been made the lafl year by the citizens in gene
ral : And let any one judge if any inconveniences
have resulted from these savings."
The following is the Speech of \V arr f. n Hastings,
Esq. made at the ctnclujion of the third Tear' Juice
the commencement of his Trial.
" MY LORDS,
" MAY Ibe permitted to offer a few words to
your Lordships ? I find myfelf unequal to the oc
casion which so taddenly calls upon ine to state
to your Lordships what I feel of the unexampled
hardfliipso'f this trial. I came here to-day utter
ly unprepared for such an event, as tliat which
I perceive now impending; 1 theref6re intreat
your Lordships' indulgence for a few moments
while I recolle»sl myfelf.
I mull beg you will be plcafed toconfidertlii:
lituation in which I stand, and the awe which I
mult unavoidably feel, in addressing this august
allembly. I have already, in a petition prei'ertted to
your Lordships in the beginning of thisyear,rcprc
fentedthe hard (hips and grievances which I tho't
I had fultained when only one year of this im
peachment had pafied. These have accumulated ;
many of them have proportionably accumulated
with the time that has iince elapsed, But in my
sense of them they have been infinitely aggravat
ed, when I have seen folirtle done, and fomuch
time expended ; such a long period contained,
and yet not one tenth part of one fmgle arti
cle of the twenty, which compose the charge,
brought to a conclusion on the part of the prof'e
cution only. If five months have been thus con
tained, what period, my Lords, niuft I cftimate,
as neceflary for the remainder of the impeach
ment.
" My life, in any estimation of it will not be
fufficient. 11is impossible that Ifhould furviveto
its close, if continued as it has hitherto proceed
ed ; and, although I know not what to make the
fpecific prayer of my petition, I do beseech your
Lordships to coillider what injury my health aijd
my fortune muil fultain, if it be your determina
tion that I mull wait till it shall please thejuflice
or the candor of the Honorable House of Com
mons, which has impeached me before your
Lordships, to close this profecutionl
" My Lords, I hope I shall not be thought to
deviate from the refpeift which I feel, equally I
am tare with any man living, for this high Court,
if I fay,that had a precedent existed in England,
of a man accused and impeached as lhave been,
whose trial had actually been protra<fted to such
a length, or if I had conceived it possible that mine
could have been so protracted—l hope your Lord
ships will pardon me if I fay—l would at once have
plead guilty. I would not have fultained this trial.
I would have relied my cause, and my character,
which is much dearer to me than life, upon that
truth which sooner or later will shew itfelf. This,
mv Lords, I would have done, rather than have
tabmitted to a trial, which of itfelf has been a
punishment a hundred times more severe than
any punishment your Lordships could have inflicfl
ed upon me,had I plead guilty. What mult I not
continue to experience, by a life of impeach
ment !
" And now, my Lords, I bdg leave to submit
my cause to your Lofdfhips.Vtrell knowing,that if
it is in your power to apply a remedy to the hard
lhips which I have fultained, and to those whichl
am yet likely to taffer, your Lordships will doit.
I cannot be so unreasonable as to expert that your
Lordships should walte more of your time in the
continuation of this trial, when- the year is so
far advanced, and when, by the cultom of the
Parliament, it has been utail for your LordshipsVo retire from the business of 4 the ieliian. Ido
Uieiefore, numbly iubmit lnyfclf to your Lord
ilups jnftice and goodness. Yet, if the Honorable
Managers could ptopofe a fhorr time, such a pe
lioil as your Lordihips could afford, in order to
dole this impeachment, which I have been told
(perhaps falfely) was to end with theprefeitt ar
ticle, 1 ihould be willing in that cafe even to wave
my defence, rather than protra<ft the decision to
another year, or it may be for many years ; I
would pray your Lordihips to proceed to judg
ment on the evidence which my prosecutors have
adduced for my conviction.
My Lords, I hope I said nothing that
is difrefpecftful to your Lordihips ; I am sure 1
have felt no other sent intents than those of defer
ence and respeCt for this great afleinby."
Lord Chanceilor. " Mr. Haltings, the
Lords will certainly take intoconfideration every
thing of the lort that has been said on your part,
and which can poflibly be conducive to thejultice
of the cafe : You will recollect that this is not at
the instance of the Managers at all, but merely
with a view to fee howtlie belt jultice can be done.
In ail} rule the Lords shall come to, they will un
doubtedly entertain a full conlideration of all
those things which have been observed toyou."
Mr. Hastings. " My Lords, I rely with per
fect confidenceon your Lordihips judgment."
A general murmur ran through the Court when
he concluded. It struck us that every fpetlator
drew a comparison in his own mind, between the
fate of the man who had 1011, and of the man who
had preserved an empire to Great Britain.
The Lords then retired to their own chamber
and presently a lnellkge was sent to the Commons'
that they would proceed further on this Trial on
the firft Tuesday after the next feflion of Parlia
in en r.
thus ended the third year of this extraordina
ry Trial.
EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS.
VENICE, JULY 22.
A I length the republic are forced into the
war with the Infidel, whose resistless spirit has
caused the apathy of the governing power. The
navy is divided into three branches ; one intend
ed to carry on an expedition againll the Barbary
coait, one to fcotir the middle seas, and the o
tlier to protect the trade at home. Our Senate
have voted a million and a half of gold ducats
lor this purpole, which is the greatelt sum em
ployed lor that service in upwards of seventy
years. The neceflity, however, juftifies the ex
pence.
EDINBURGH, AUGUST 6.
On Monday fe'nnight as three young girls were
bathing in the river Dee, near Kirkcudbright,
two of them were unfortunately drowned, and the
third would undoubtedly have ffiared the fame
fate had it not been for theafliftance of a doe:
which caught her by the hair of her head while
going down. The girl when (he found herfelf
ieized by the sagacious animal, grained it with
an eagerness natural to one in her situation
which would have rendered such assistance abor
tive, but for the timely interference of a man
from the ffiore, who, feeing the perilous situation
in which llie was, humanely ventured into the
water, and laid hold of the dog, which (till held
her fait, and by this means saved her life.
LONDON, AUGUST I.
FROM PARIS.
From thirty to forty heads are still called for
by the Nation, (not the populace) and, if got
hold of, will probably be in danger. M.Le No?r
the late Lieutenant of the Police, is said to be ap
prehended and the noted Beaumarchais is
itridtly leeking after.
Efficacious measures are taken by the city and
the permanent committee, headed by Mr B-iily
and JVI. de la Fayette, to prevent a repetition of
bloody and irregular executions ; all the fufpert
ed and accused persons are to be inltantly con
veyed to the abbaye St. Germain, and kept there
under guard of the armed citizens till trial. Over
the pnfon is this infeription—Accufed, under the
hand andJaje-gnard oj the nation.
Addrefles are coming in from allthetoM'ns and
corporate bodies, requiringpermiflion to form mi
litias in their refpe<ftive diltri<ft s ; a measure which
will certainly be adopted : The whole difficulty
lies in afcertaming what part of the executive
power shall have their formation.
August There are two hundred and sixty
female convidts on board the ffiip bound to New
South Wales. Ihe crew, including officers, are
about thirty in number ; each of tliem will doubt
less select a mate for the voyage, and government
have sent them baby-clothes 011 board for sixty in
fants, 011 the probability that each of the cho
sen ladies may have twins.
A beautiful girl is amohgft the number of un
happy creatures under sentence oftranfportation,
who a short time since figured about town in the
lirft flile of elegance.
The committee of the Hotel de Ville in Paris
has employed every means to search ast er,and in-
veliigate all clrcumftances, wliich can tend to
throw any light on the horrid plot that was pre
pared againlt the people, and the city in particu
lar. The utmost vigilance has therefore been
observed, in fending every paper to the commit
tee, which has been found on those persons who
have been arrelled in attempting to escape. The
moil important documents from which any thing
can be drawn were found in the portfolio of M.
Bethier, and in the pormanteau of the Prince de
Lambefc, whole equipage was ftoped, altlio he
himfelf escaped. What has been already done,
is thus related to us :
" This infernal cabal (the Oueen's party) did
notpropofe to dil'mifs M. Neckar till the 16th of
July at night, at which time the army, under
Manhal Broglio, were to enter Paris, and l'eize
on the principal polls in the city, which were to
be guarded with cannon. The next morning it
was to be proposed to the National Aflembly, to
regilter the King's last declaration ; and in cafe
of non-compliance, the States General were to
bedifinifled,and a new Aflembly to be convened,
to meet next November, which was to preclude a
double representation of the Third Eltate, viz.
the latter was only to have an equal number of
votes as the other two orders.
" The King's declaration was to be lent to all
the provincial Parliaments and Bailiwicks, and it
was expected they would enregilter it.
bei s of" the Natiol.al Aflembly were to be arrett
ed ; and 3 Bifliops, 4 Curates, 57 Nobles, among
others the Duke of Orleans, and 23 Coinxnoners,
were to be proscribed.
A lubfeription of 12 millions of livres was
promised among a few of the Nobility and Bilhops
but they expected the greatest afliltance from the
1 lining ol 100 millions of paper money, which
was to be forced into circulation under a heavy
penalty of refilling it. These notes were alrea
dy piinted oil".— 1 lie Baron de Bats was to have
been at the head of the finances. He had under
taken to make this paper negociable.
" When it was hinted to one of the principal
perlons who advifedthis fchen.e, that it was pof
lible the National troops would not act under such
a fyltem " Good ! said he, " promise them
but the pillage of Paris, and I'll answer for their
obedience."
Such were the means intended to reduce the
city of Paris, which was to have been the vicftiin
of a licentious soldiery.
August 6. The condud: of Spain has been
charged as inimical to the freedom of France
and if the infinuationbe eftabliflied, it will proba
bly be fatal to her transmarine iriterelts : Alrea
dy a participation of her South American colonies
between Francs, and North America, is spo
ken of among the leaders of the people and it
is said, the condition of the division is an army
nf 20,000 men, to be furnilhed by the United
States.
Copy of a letter said to be written by his Sardinian
IMajefly to the King of trance.
" Dear Brother,
" 1 ani that the meekness of your own
temper, as well as the inability of your charac
ter, joined to the ignorance and treachery of
your 111111 liters, have betrayedyouinto yourpre
fentunfortunate situation ; but lean fee no other
remedy, but that your Majelty mult haft en to
grant of your own accord, what will otherwise
be extorted by force.
Your affectionate Brother,
J"h 2 > VICTOR AMADOUS."
Ajg usr 8. The four Companies of French
guards which continued to do duty over the Kind's
per lon at Versailles, have now left him, and
joining their former comrades, are incorporated
into the Versailles militia The Prince dcPoix
late Captain of the private guard, now commands
thele men ; and his Majesty apprehensive for the
lafety oflnsperfon, has written to the Prince re
queuing at least some invalids to mount guard at
the palace gate. This could not be complied with
as the town s-people infilled on doing the duty'
which they have regularly performed, having
o p s ciotr ' ™ thfrom the "•»<£
M.Touret, an advocate of Rouen, is elected
of theDukfd T^ atl ° nal in the room
exph eck 6 Llancourt j whose fifteen days are
• T °u ret ' S le<flion is raifl to been car
ried by the intrigues of the Clergy; he is not re
pelted in an equal degree with either of the last
residents ; and diflentions among the Members
of the National Aflembly daily become visible
van,ageofS£ y M " "'" ke ,heir
is - of the >' OUII g Count de Broglio
the theme of umverlal admiration; he liadde
term,lied to fulfil his duty as a soldier, by obey
ing his father s orders to fire ; but at the fame
tune allured the Marshal, that he would place
himfelf so as to fall thefirft victim of the people
Rumoi s of plots and conspiracies are in circula
tion ; and four people are in cultody, chareed
with attempting to let the city on fire S
Ihe Count d'Artois's banker rPiuet J has broke
for upwards ofhalf , miUion a,rli„ g .
cii cuniftances fecm to indicate tl at ti
of this country will not be lb loon
coinpoled as the friends of freedom a',,* 1 ea %
had indulged themselves with the hope manit y
FRENCH REFUGEE NOBILITY
August 9. M.leComte d' Artois M 'ti
de Henain, M. le Marquis de Polignac m 7
Vaudreuil, are at Namur. ' Ldc
At are the following uerfnm
M. le Prince de Conde, but calhng hin.leh'M I
Comte de Natreuil , Wad. la Prince fie Louifed
C onde, under the name of La Cointeile de w
tin. Mad. la Princeflede Monaco rln •
name allb to laComteflede I)"
de Bourbon, M. le Due d'Enghlen, Mad.
telle Amclie, Due d'A, lgo uleme, Dtic de Berri"
M. lc 1 mice de Conti, Marquis and la Mam ■/
de Seran, M. le Marquis andV la Mar q
"champ, M I'EvequedeTarpes, M.kDuehde
de lirancal, Mile, de Nieuwenhcim, M. le R r ,
teuil, with his daughter and grand dau-Cr"
Marquis du Chatelet, Colonelofthe French 2ua d '
Compte de Choifcul Meufe, M. le ChevflieJ
Virieux, M. le Marquis de Belfunce, Marechal
de Camp M de la Robert, M.leComte Ducayb
M. le Chevalier M. le Comte d'An
teuil, M. le C. d'Efpinchal, ' COmtedAn -
AUGUST 11.
At Bruflels the commotions and apprel.enfions
of the people were such, on account of the Count
D Artois the Pohgnacs, and other off'enfive cha
racters taking refuge in that town, that the Maui
ifrrates published a notice, by which they were re
quired to leave Bruflels, and in consequence the
ir a -r rt °r S } S ? ed t0 Turin - The P °lignacs
are also difperfed,but their deftinationisnot asyet
known. The Prince de Conde has solicited the
Emperor s pernuflion to remain, but hisMaiefty'
determination had not reached Bruflbls when the
lait advices came away.
AUGUTS 12.
NEW CONSTITUTION OF FRANCE.
On Tuefilay evening, the 4 tliinft.the Vifcomte
tie Noaiues role 111 the National Aflbmbly, and
in a glowing speech said, now was the time for
the Aflembly to prove their gennine patriotism
to the people, by shewing themselves their affec
tionate and disinterested Representatives, devoid
of every motive but the public good ; and by
giving a great example to nations and to ages,
in the lacrifice of " every abusive right andpri
vilsge whatsoever," incidental to all the orders,
pro\ inces,cities andcommunities,raife the French
name to a height unparalleled in history, and
confecrape their memory as worthy of represent
ing the enlightened knowledge, the courage,the
vn tue of lb great and generous a people.
Xo sooner had he made a motion fur the aboli
tion of the seigniorial rights, than the whole
body or Nobles and Clergy rose as it were by one
common nnpulfe to express their warmest appro
bation ; and the moll fublimeltruggle took place
101 several hours, of who should be the foremoft
m pointing out fonie frelh offering to liberty.
1 he deputies of the provinces, such as Franche,
Comte, Burgundy, Brittany, Dauphine, Artois,
&c. &c. and of the cities under similar circum
ltances of poflefling peculiar privileges and ex
emptions, joined in the general burlt of freedom;
and after an enthusiastic converfation,notdebate,
which lasted from seven o'clock till threeinthe
moi ning of yelterday, the following articles were
unanimously agreed on. I have only time to fend
you the heads of them.
Art. 1. Equality of taxes, to commence from
the present moment.
Art - 2 - The renunciation of all privileges
foi orders, cities, provinces, and individuals, a
general uniformity to take place throughout the
whole kingdom.
Art. 3. The redemption of all the feudal
rights.
Art. 4. Suppreflion of mortmain and person
al servitude.
Art. 5. The produce of the redemptionof
the estates of the Clergy to be applied to the aug
mentation of the salaries of parifli prielts.
Art. 6. The abolition of the game-laws and
capitaineries.
Art. 7. The abolition of the seigniorial jii
rifdnflions. 6
Art. 8. The abolition of the venality of offices.
Art. 9. Jultice to be rendered gratuitously to
the people.
Art. 10. The abolition of the privilege 1 !
dove cotes and warrens (a dreadful and serious
grievance to the French peasant).
Art. 11. The redemption of tithes and field rents-
Art. 12. It is forbidden to create in future
any rights of the fame nature, or any other feu
dal rights whatever.
Art. 13. The abolition ofthefees ofparifh
prielts, for births, marriages or deaths, except
in cities.
Art. 14. A speedy augmentation of the be
nefices of parish prielts.
Art. ij. The fuppreflion of the droits a an
nates ,or firft fruits. The sum paid by France
to the Pope on this head, amounted annuall) to
357,1331 Iterling.
Art. 16. The admiflion of all rank sos ci"
zens to civ:l and military employments.Art. 17. The suppression of the duties of re
moval paid by the parifli priests to' the bilhopsin
certain provinces.
Art. 18. The fuppreflion of corporations and
wardenfliips.
Art. 19. The fuppreflion of the plurality of
livings.
Art. 20. A medal to be struck to consecrate
this memorable day, expreflive of the abolition
of all privileges, and of the complete union of all
the provinces and all the citizens.
Art. 21. Te Deum to be sung in the King's
Chapel, and throughout all France.
Art. 22. Louis XVI proclaimed the Restorer
of public liberty.
These resolutions to be printed, and immedi
ately circulated through the kingdom.
There are several other articles; such as,
the abolition of all Ullmerited pensions; all arti
zans to be exempt from taxes, who employ no
journeymen ; all suits for feignioral and royal
rights now pending in the courts, to be fufpend
fcd till the constitution is completed, &c.
august 13.
The preamble to the famous Resolution which
followed the facrifices made in the National As
sembly; on Tuesday night,the 4thinftant, isfhort
and expreflive :
The Assembly considering
1. That in a free State, property lliould be as
free as the person.
2. That the ftrengtli of the empire can result
only from the entire union of all the parts, and
the perfed: equality of duties and charges.
3. That all the privileged members, and the
representatives of provinces and cities, are chear
fully disposed, even in emulation of each other,
to make a solemn renunciation in the name of
their constituents, to the nation at large of all
their particular right and privileges—
Have Resolved and Decreed, See.
The facrifices of the 4th instant independent of
the influence they will have on indultry and en
terprize, will produce savings that will fructify
the national revenue to an amazing degree. The
savings in the pension lilt will be twenty millions
of livrcs a year.
The Viscount de Veneur has given a noble ex
ample of generosity to his vallals. He has an
eft:ue near Alencon—he allembled his vaflals, and
in their presence burnt all the titles to his seigni
orial rights.
At St. Dcnys, the tumults of the populace have
been attended with very alarming consequences ;
the Chief Magistrate of the place was seized and
led to execution : two other obnoxious persons
were also butchered. During the uproar, the
grand benedi<ftine abbey was attacked for the fake
of its treasure ; but although the riches supposed
tobe contained in the royal tombs operated very
incentively 011 the people, in the end they forbore
to commit this sacrilege.
PHILADELPHIA, OCT. 6.
Eniratt of a letter, dated Louisville, Aug. i, 1789.
" This day week the inoft diabolical design
that ever was formed, was difcovej-ed in Martini,
co : It was an infurredtion of the negroes, who
were that night to have set fire to the large and
beautiful town of St. Pierre ; while the white
people were all in confufion,and driving to escape
the flames, they were to be butchered indiscrimi
nately, man, woman and child. The combusti
bles were laid in upwards of 100 houses, (consist
ing of hemp dipt in turpentine.) The plot was
not discovered till ; o'clock in the evening, when
a negro belonging to an old lady, flung with re
movi'e on thinking that he mull: murder the woman
who had brought him up from a child, disclosed
ittoher. The troops beingthereupon aflembled,
40 of the negroes were taken, armed with a han
ger and long knife—the instruments which were
inafew hours to have put a period to theexiftence
ot upwards of jooo people. All the inhabitants
have been under arms everfince, as they are afraid
the negroes will attempt to refque the 40 who are
in goal—but this week they will be all refcuedby
the grim hand of death in the dreadful form of
therack. As it is only fix hours paflage to Mar
tinieo, I thai I go there to fee the execution, to be
convinced if the rack is the terrible thing it isre
prefented.
Extract from huidfays Hotel Diary, Sept. 20.
e have just received a particular account of
the loss of the ship William and Thomas, Capt.
lunter, ot Stockton, from Gibralterfor Patuxent.
that on the 20th of August they supposed them
elves nigh to the coast of America,but the weather
proving hazy for five days they could get no ob
eryation ; and the wind during that time blow
ing from N. E. caused a heavy swell, which, with
t ie current, set them much nigher the Carolina
c °a t than they imagined : The wind increasing
, le > "J'ove on shore in the night of the 24th of
ugult, and stranded. We areforry to add, that
'oin the dslolate part of the coast on which they
ve ieloft, the materials saved couldhave brought
ma H price to the owners.
M>. f oc ' at ' on a refpetftable part of the
C 1 chants and Traders of this city, for the dif
couragement of Smuggling, is now on the Coffee
iioiife table, where ic will remain Four weeks,
to be signet! by tliofe who chufe to support the
measure : afterwliicli time it will be printed,
with the names, in the different newlpapers of
this city.
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 10.
Justice and Mercy are the pillars that support the throne of
the Deity : Human governments formed on these principles will
stand, will flourifh so long as those principles shall operate : The
experience of all past and present times confirms the truth of this
observation : —Happy is that people who pofifcfs the magnanimity
of spirit, firmly to resolve that all their public tranfa£lions shall,
under allpojjible circumjlances, be fquurcd by these eternal rules of
right.
The important obje£t of making provision for the payment of
public Creditors lay with great weight on the minds of Congress;
but the variety of other bufmefs jhat claimed an immediate
attention ; and the uncertainty that rested upon the operation of
the Revenue System, as to its competency and produce, ren
dered it highly ineligible to take up so complicate, and important
a fubjeft, when matters were so situated, that no adequate plans
could be adopted : However, to give the mod positive and une
quivocal afTurances of their future determination, on the tenth of
Sept. the House of Rcprefentatives pafTcd a Resolution to the fol
lowing purport, viz. That it highly concerns the honor and inter
efl of the United States to make some early and effectual provision
in favor of the public Creditors of the Union—and that the House
would early in the next feflion take this fubjeft into consideration
—and the Secretary of the Treasury was directed to prepare and
digest in the recess, the neceflary plans for this purpose, to be laid
before the House at the feflion in January.
There is no ast of the National I.egiflature that refle&s more
distinguished honor on the illuftrfous chara£lers which compofcd
it, than their determination to establish public credit. So grea<
was their ardor to convince the community of their intention tu
do justice to all descriptions of creditors, that they could not put
off their declarations relative to this fubjeft,till funds were broughl
into actual operation. We accordingly find among their acts thai
they have honorably recognized the public debts, and given as-
Turances that they have it in contemplation to make such provision
for the purpose as the circumstances of the government will rendei
practicable. This (hould ihfpire hope and confidence in the well,
withers of order and justice ; and (hould finally extinguish the
doubts that have been entertained refpefting the eventual paymeni
of the public debts. It (hould likewise teach the enemies of our
government that they have deceived themselves in expe&ing thai
our affairs would continue to wear the fame difordcred afpefl
which formerly charatterized themjg The confufion and discord
that those restless men have wished and anticipated seem, like the
contention which Solomon speaks of, to be left off before they are
meddled with— For taking all things into consideration the Legi
slature have made as great advances towards putting into effeflual
motion the obje£ls of the Constitution as any reasonable man ever
expected. We dill however muff bear the complaints of the envi
ous and difappointcd. The oppofers of every government form
no inconsiderable class of men. Innumerable are the causes which
excite discontent and clamor; and no period of the world has ever
been exempt from men, who take a delight in stirring up uneafi.
ness amory; the people, and reproaching the conduct of all the
measures of government. Let the good citizens of this distin
guished nation learn to believe that their rulers have stronger mo.
tives to do good than evil ; that it is less probable wife and well
informed men will commit blunders than those whose situation
precludes them from knowing, what are the bed methods to pro
mote the public prosperity.
There isan unconquerable propensity in human nature to change,
—To this versatility may be ascribed a great proportion of the
evils of life : It seems to be more owing to accident, than to the
sagacity, patience, and perseverance of mankind in purfuitof pro
per objefis, that they ever enjoy the benefits connected with the
best devised plans—and if America (hould fail of realizing all that
happiness which (he hath anticipated under the New Constitution
it will be owing more to this cause than to anv imperfection of
the system, or (probably) to any faults in the administration : This
ficklencfs of the public mind has, more than all other causes, con
tributed to keep the people in flavery—for the generous exertions
of those who would become patiiotic leaders, have too often been
repressed by the dread, that the " Hosannas" of To-Day would
be succeeded by " crucify him" To-Morrow.
The revolution in France is one of the most glorious objects that
can arrest the attention of mankind : To fee a great people spring
ing into light, freedom, and happiness at once, from the depres
sions of Dcfpotifm and Bigotry, isfomething so novel, and so fur.
prizing, that the philol'opher is astonished, and the whole world
contemplates the scene with wonder, with rapture, and applause.
Americans in a particular manner,' rejoice to fee among the most
(hilling patriots of France, the most diftinguilhed names of those
veterans who fought by her fide the battles of Freedom.
Is there nothing to be done to meliorate the condition of the
lower orders of people in England, Scotland, and lieland ? There
is—They too, we trust, shall ere long be completely delivered
from every vestige of feudal tyranny.
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
WtD.\tso AY, Sloop Sally, Gorham, Alexandria, 8 days.
Friday, Ship Hannah, Moore, Barbadoes, 27days.
Brig Minerva, Smith, Cape de Verds.
Schooner Polly, Locey, Shelburne, i2days.
Endeavor, Cunningham, Richmond.
( NEV.'-YCUIK, Octobei io, 178 a.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sett. 19, 1 789.
The SECRETARY of the TREASURY,
In obedience to the Order of the House of Re
presentatives, of the 17th inft .
RESPECTFULLY REPORTS,
THAT the schedule No. r contains an esti
mate of the total expenditure of the Civil Lift,
for the present year, amounting to two hundred
and forty three thousand three hundred and thir
ty three dollars, and seventy eight cents.
That the fcedule No. 2 contains an eltimate of
the total expenditure for the Department of H'ar,
for tlie prefentycar, amounting to one hundred,
(ixty three thousand and seventy eight dollars,
and fixtylix cents.
That the schedule No. 5 contains a statement of
the amount of Warrants illued by the late Board
of Treasury, which remain uufatisfied, being 189,
906 dollars, and 38 cents, which amount, as ap
pears by the fame schedule, comprises the sum of
34,657 dollars, and 67 cents, included
mate for the civil lift, and the sum of 25, 575 dol
lars, 34 cents, included inthe eftimateforrhe De
partment of War, leaving a ballance of two hun
dred and eight thou land fix hundred and seventy
fix dollars, and eleven cents, on the civil lift, and
of one hundred thirty seven thousand five hun
dred and three dollars, and 32 cents, on the De
partment of War : for which appropriations are
requisite, besides the amount of the warrants.
The Secretary begs leave to remark, that he has
inserted, in the eltimate for the civil lift, the
compensations allowed by the late government
to the Paymaster General and Commiflioner of
Army Accounts, and his Clerks, for the entire
year, oil the following grounds—The duty aflign
ed to the Commiflioner of Army Accounts, by an
ordinance of Congress of the 7th of May i 787, is
to receive from the Diltrid: Commiflioners, con
stituted thereby, the accounts and vouchers of the
several States, for certain payments and advances
on account of the Army and Militia, in the ser
vice of the United States, during the late war ;
and to examine those accounts ; palling fueh as
are atithorifed by the resolutions of Congress,
and stating to the General Board of Commiflion
ers such as do not fall under that description,
with remarks tending to elucidate the nature of
the claims they exhibit, to be decided by that
board on ; equitable principles.
Hence the Office of Commiflioner of Army Ac
counts forms a part of the system of that ordinance
which appears to have been recognized as con
tinuing in force by the aifl for fettling the accounts
between the United States and the Individual
States. The Commiflioner in question reports,
that the accounts of New-Ham pfhire, Connecticut,
and New-York, have been examined, stated, and
are ready for the General Board ; that those of
Maflachufetts and Rhode-Island will probably be
finifhed in thecourfe of a month ; and that those
of New-Jersey are now also under examination.
The Secretary begs leave further to remark,
that the annual amount of Pensions to Invalids
which has been usually comprehended in the Ci
vil Lift, is eftiinated at ninety fix thousand and
Seventeen dollars, and eleven cents, as pr. sche
dule No. 4, but it isunderftood, that a considera
ble part of these pensions, for the present year,
has been paid by the refpetftive States—though ic
is not knowij to what extent.
That there still remain unfatisfied warrants,
which were ifliied by the late Superintendant of
Finance, to the amount of ninety three thousand
four hundred and sixty three dollars, and 26
cents, the chief part of which were granted for
Supplies furnifhed to the American Prisoners dur
ing the war.
All which is humbly submitted.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
ESTIMATE of the EXPENDITURE
for the CIVIL LIST of the United States, for the
Year 1 789.
First.—ln relation to the late Government.
For CONGRESS.
Dol. goths. Dol. qcths.
The annual allowance made by the United
States, in Congress afTembled, the 23d Aug.
1787, including the salaries of the private Se
cretary and Steward, house rent, and expen
ses of the houfhold. is thereby fixed at 8,000
dollars pr. ann. which being estimated to the
3d of March, the time fixed for proceedings
to commence under the NcwConftitution, is, 1,358 81
The salaries to the following officers are
computed from ill of January, to thetimes to
which the late Board of Treasury have iffucd '
their warrant for payment, under a preemp
tion, that they were entitled to salary until
the delivery of the books, papers, and records
of the late Secretary's Oifice of Congress, to
the Secretary of State:—The Secretary of Con
greis, from ill January to the 30th of June, at
the rate of 2,600 dollars pr. ann. 1,300
Deputy Secretary, fame time, at 800, 400
One Clerk to do. do. 430, 225
One Clerk to the 7th of May, at 450] 158 10
Door-keeper to the 31ft March,at4oo, 100
Do. for taking care of Office, for
nine months last pad, 40
Carried forward, ~'*~ 3 '° g ,
(To be continued.)Yhe RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED,
(in continuation.)
THE iiiiith reason is, " because the people
" are less luxurious than kings or grandees."—
I hat may well be denied. Kings, nobles, and peo
pie, are all alike in this iefpe<si, and in general
Unow no other bounds of indulgence than the
capacity of enjoyment, and the power to gratify
it. The problem ought to be to find a form of go
vernment belt calculated to prevent the bad ef
fedts and corruption ofluxury, when, in the ordi
nary course of things, it mull: be expected to come
in. and nobles, if they are confefled to en
joy or indulge in luxury more than the commons, it
is merely because they have more means and op
portunities ; not because they have Itronger appe
tites, pailions, and fancies, or, in other words, a
Itronger propensity to luxury than the plebeians,
If it should be conceded, that the pailions and ap
petites ftreugthen by indulgence, it muftbecoii
fefed too, that they have more motives to re
ftrai ft-them ; but ill regard to mere animal grati
fication, it may well be denied that they indulge
or enjoy more tlijiiji the common people oil an
average. Eating and drinkingfurely is prac f tifed
with as much fatisfaCtion by the footman as his
lord ; and as much pleasure may be tailed in gin,
brandy, ale, and porter, as in Burgundy or To
kay ; in beef and pudding, as in ortolans and jel
lies. If we consider nations together, we shall find
that intemperance and excels is more indulged in
the lowest ranks than in the liigheft. The luxury
of dress, beyond the defence from the weather, is
a mere matter of politics and etiquette through
out all the ranks of life ; and, in the higher ranks,
riles only in proportion as it rises 111 the middle
and the lowest. The fame is true in furniture and
equipage, after the ordinary conveniences and
accommodations of life. Those who claim or
aspire to the liigheft ranks of life, will eternally
go a certain degree above those below them in
these particulars, if their incomes will allow it.
Confederation is attainable by appearance, and
ever will be; and it may be depended 011, that rich
men in general will not liifter others to be conii
dered more than tlienifelves, or as much, if they
can prevent it by their riches. The poor and
the middle ranks, tlfen, have it in their power to
diminifli luxury as much as the great and rich
have. Let the middle and lower ranks leflen their
style of living, and they may depend upon it the
liigher ranks will leflen theirs. It is commonly
said every thing is regis ad exeniplum ; that the
lower ranks imitate the higher; and it is true :
But it is equally true that the higher imitate the
lower. The liigherranks will never exceed their
vferiors but in a certain proportion; but Aif
s ..{lion they are absolutely obliged to keep up, or
fall into contempt and ridicule, It may gratify
vulgar malignity and popular envy, to ifeclaim
eternally against the rich and the great, the noble
and the high; but, generally and philosophically
speaking, the manners and characters in a nation
are all alike: the lowest and the middling peo
ple, in general, grow \icious, vain, and luxuri
ous, exactly in proportion. As to appearance,
the higher fort are obliged to raise theirs in pro
portion as the stories below ascend. A free peo
ple are the 1110 ft addicted to luxury of any : that
equality which they enjoy,, and in which tliey
glory, inspires them with fentiuients which hurry
them into luxury. A citizen perceives his fel
low-citisen, whom he holds his equal, have a
better coat or hat, a better house or horse, than
liimfelf, and fees his neighbors are struck with
it, talk of it, and refpec't him for it; he cannot
bear it; he must and will be upon a level with
him. Such an emulation as this takes place in
every neighboifiood, in every family; among
artizans, hulbandmen, laborers, as much as be
tween dukes and marquifles, and more—those are
all nearly equal in dress, and are now distin
guished by other marks. Declamations, oratory,
poetry, f'ermons, against luxury, riches, and com
merce, will never have much effect: the most
rigorous sumptuary laws will have little more.—
" Difcprdia et avaritia, atque ambitio, et; cetera
" fecundis rebus oriri fueta mala, post Carthaginis
" excidium maxume auCta funt. Ex quo tem
" pore majorum mores, 11011 paulatim ut antea,
" fed torrentis modo prxcipitati." Salluft. in
Frag.—ln the late war, the Americans found an
unnfual quantity of money flow in upon them,
and, without the least degree of prudence, fore
fight, consideration, ormeafure, rufliedheadlong
into a greater degree of luxury than ought to
have crept in in a hundred years. The Romans
cliargedtlie ruin of their common wealth to luxu
ry : iliey might have charged it to the want of a
balance in their constitution. 111 a country like
America, where the means and opportunities for
luxury are so easy and so plenty, it would be
madness not to expect it, bejnepared for it, and
provide against the dangers of it in the constitu
tion. The balance, in atriple-headed legislature,
is the best and the only remedy. If we will not
adopt that, we must Aider the punishment of our
temerity. The fupereminence of athreefold ba
lance, above all the imperfect balances that were
attempted in the antient republics of Greece and
Italy, and the modern ones of Switzerland -and
Holland, whether ariiAocratical or mixed, lies in
this, that as it is capable of governing a great
nation and a large territory, whereas others can
only exist in small ones, f<> it is capable of prc
ferving liberty among great degrees of wealth,
luxury, diflipation, and e\ en profligacy of man
ners ; whereas the others require the utmost fru
gality, simplicity, and moderation, to make Im
uran life tolerable under them.
The Editor hereof having had his name mentioned, as one of the
perions alluded to in the Resolve refpe£ting the pubiifhing of
the Debates of the Hon. House ot Representatives, thinks it
not improper to re-publi(h the following from the Dailv Ad
vcrtifer ot the 7th instant.
From Mr. Grcenleaf's Week!) Regifier. of Sept. 14.
" THE following motion made by Mr.
Burke 011 Monday, in the House of Representa
tives of the United States, which is supposed to
refpetft Francis Ch ilds, Printer of the Daily
Advertiser ; John Fenno, Printer of the Ga
zette of the Jnited States, and Thomas
Lloyd, Editor of the Congressional Regis
ter, was laid 011 the table for the Conlideration
of the mpmbcrs.
" Refolded, Thattlie several persons who have
publiflied the debates of this House, in the Con
greliional Regilter, and in newspapers of this
city, have misrepresented thole debates in the
molt glaring deviations from the truth—often
diltorting the arguments of the members from the
true meaning—imputing to some gentlemen ar
guments, contradictory and foreign to the fub
jett, and which were never advanced—to others
remarks and observations never made—and in a
great many inltances, mutilating, and not un
frequeiuly fupprelfing whole arguments upon
fubjecfts of the grcatelt moment —thus throwing
over the whole proceedings a thick veil of mis
representation and error ; which being done with
in the House, at the very foot of the Speaker's
chair, gives a sanction and authenticity to those
publications that refletft upon the House a ridi
cule and absurdity highly injurious to its privi
leges and dignity.
" Refohed, That to misrepresent the debates of
the House, whether it arises from incapacity, in
attention, or partiality, has a mischievous ten
dgncy to infringe the freedom of debate—and that
this House should no longer give laii&ion to it."
AS the foregoing motion of Mr. Burke re
flecting the misrepresentations of the debates of
the House of Representatives, has bee.-officioufly
printed by Thomas Greenleaf; we 1 .ink pro
per to acquaint the public that the intended reso
lution was publiflied without the countenance or
knowledge of the honorable mover, and as the mo
tion itfelf, extravagant as it is, and which was
withdrawn after being faintly supported, may
leave an unjultimpreffion 011 the minds of the pub
lic, we think proper to subjoin the following re
marks, which we flatter ourselves will have a cir
culation and imprellion, at lead co-extensive with
the other.
It is extremely difficult to conceive how any
person pollelfing common sense, could Co far mis
take the plain, full and polHtive meaning of the
debates in the Hon. Houl'e of Representatives, as
to " misrepresent them in the moll glaring de
viations from the truth;" but to " dillort the ar
guments from their true meaning," requires
some degree of ingenuity—it is extremely diffi
cult however to fuggelt any plausible reason,
which should induce the editors of the debates to
do this—The -whole world would rcfent the in
sult, so far as it was known ; and the publishers
would nlk the countenance and patronage oftlie
public. It is Hill more difficult to account for the
long silence of those whowouldbe more immedi
ately concerned had this been the cafe—it can be
imputed only to a conviction in the mipds of rlie
majority, that this has never intentionally taken
place. It may have happened that one gentle
man's name may have been placed before the
lpeecli of another ; this may have happened with
out any defigr. of " imputing to some gentlemen
arguments contradictory and foreign to the f'ub
ject, and which were never advanced," or " to
others, remarks and observations which were
never made" forJi.u'natium ejl errare—Mutilations
of speeches are sometimes made with advantage ;
they seem to be the neceilary consequence of a
very rapid enunciation, or when the speaker's
voice is small and low.
It would so completely eftabliili the reputation
of a public regilter of the debates, to have them
perjeClly accurate, that it is more difficult than all
the preceding difficulties, to account for a Prin
ter's ■wilfully making them imperfect, when it is
in his power to do otherwise—it is a fort offelo
de fe againlt his own interest. To attempt to
" throw a thick veil of misrepresentation and
error over the whole proceedings" oftlie house
of representatives, would be an undertaking so
complicate in its nature, and so impracticable in
its execution, that the person who should con
ceive the idea of making the effort in this land of
fieedom,and where the public proceeding's are
upon as the day, would be a fitfubjedt for a fir ait
•watficoai ; and this to be done too " at the very
foot of the fpeakpr's chair," isfo ndic»i ons and
absurd, that it carries its own refutation with"t
From whence it follows that for a PrinteriuhU
publications to nnfreprefent the debates n!M
house, « whether it arises fro,, incapacity \n
attention or partiality," can have no "tendency
to infringe the freedom of fpcech for it is i m
possible that any person can luppole that the house
could fanclion such publications ; nor can ajiv
system of corruption for deceiving the people b'«
predicated of fuel, publications, as they would
certainly appear to be without objecTt or deW
Theappeal ismade to the candid and impartial'
The original publifners of the debates in the newsi
papers, never proposed to give these debates so as
to conipnle the whole of the speeches at full lentil
—Sketches only of the proceedings were their obi
ject; they have aimed to be impartial; their labor?
have met a favorable reception ; their ownfenti
-1,1 cuts have never influenced them in ilatino; a sin
gle question ; and it is not in the power of 'any per
son whatever, to point out an instance of their being
confronted or influenced either diredllyor indirea
-Iy, by any man, or body of men, to alter, curtail,
mutilate or suppress an individual speech, that
has ever been heard by them, or published in
their papers.
TIIE WISE RESOLVE.
NO more I'll wandefthro' the verdant vales,
No more I'll breathe the balmy weitein gales,
No more I'll range the once enchanting bow'r,
Nor flrole with Laura at the ev'ning hour ;
But where yon wall with ivy cover'd round,
Indoles fad the village burial-ground,
, Where weeping-willows spread a pensive (hade,
And mourn in silence for ihcir neighb'nng dead :
1 here let me walk in melancholy guise, *
There teach my foul t'expand her wings and rife (
Triumphant o'er the grave, and live above the (lues. '
CIVIS,
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES.■
(Continued from No. XLVI.)
IN fine, we have not children or dunces to deal
with, but a people who have as quick a fight of
their interest, and as much courage, readinefsand
, chearfulnefs to support it, as any people on earth.
We can have, therefore, nothing more to do than
to make such propoiitions to them as are really
for their interest, to convince tlieir minds that
the thing proposed is neceflary and beneficial;
and this is to be done, not by refinement of argu
ment, but bv deviling and explaining such mea
sures as will, from tlieir nature and operation,
produce beneficial effects. We mull, with can
dor and fairnefs, in a manner open and undisguis
ed, tell them what we want money for, and how
much, and by a wife and upright management:
j of their intercfts defervc and gain their confi
dence, that their money, when obtained, shall to
[ the last /hilling be paid for such neceflary pur
[ poses ; the tax will then cease to be odious. It
will become an object of acknowledged interest,
and every person who smuggles or otherways
i avoids the tax, will be considered as Ihrinking
. from a burden which the public good makes ne
ceflary. Every attempt of this fort will become
disreputable and infamous, and when you can
conneift the rax and cliaractcr together, there will
be little difficulty in collecting it, which will ef
fectually obviate the great objection, viz that it
will be impracticable to collect a heavy tax on
goods of great value but little bulk, such as silks,
laces, and the like, because they be easily fnnjg
gled, &c. Whenever they are to be fold, theynffift
be exposed to view, and let the burden of proof
ever lie on the pofleflor, that the tax has been
i bona fide paid. I fliould think it advisable tocom
mit the management of this matter to the mer
chants, they are molt hurt by smuggling, and of
course have the higheJl interest in preventing it-
It will be ten times more difficult to cheat and
impose on them, than any others, because the
matter falls wholly within their own sphere of
business. Two of a tradecan't cheat one another
as easy as either of them might cheat a stranger.
If the merchants would rake the matter up, anil
make ic a kind of profeflional honor to prevent
smuggling, and fee tliat the duty is effectually
paid, there is little doubt but they could effect it.
All this reasoning depends 011 this one principle?
viz. that onr public measures must carry in them
wisdom, national fitnefs, juflice and propriety ;
then they will gain character, reputation, ana
confidence amongthepeopleat large, and mutual
interest will soon make the government easy a_ nc
effective, every individual will soon find his n'-
terell connected with that of the public, and lie
will have every inducement both of honor an
profit to Hand well with the government and e
fectually support it. And in this way, e ycn
the great doctrine of taxation itfelf, that comnn"'
and almost universal source of complaint) ma
become an object of acknowledged neceffity> 0
confefled right, and the payment made liket iat
of any other debt, with conviction of right an
full falisfaction. (to be continued.)
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Mai ® e * ]
I.ane, near the Ofwgo-Marktt, ' N tw-YoniH 3* e "'