(btfztu?
[No- LXIX.j
THE TABLE T. No. LXIX.
" Experience is of greater use, in procuring good lazoi, than genius."
AS no human affairs require more knowledge than the art of
governing, it is not to be wondered at, that so few able le
•■iflatori have exilled in any age or country. The moll ufeful at
tainments in the science of government mull be founded on fact
and observation. This coniiitutes the difficulty of the talk. No
man, who does not possess good talents, can gain wisdom by ex
perience ; and many men, whose talents are eminent, feel a pride
of genius,that makes them dildain lo watch experiments. Ittherc
forc happens that those people, who have not the sagacity to make
iuft observation? for themselves, are fiaves to imitation, and are
perpetually liable to err in their application ot borrowed rules
and precedents : While thofe,on the other hand, who depend on
the light of genius to dirtft their operations, are seduced into wild,
impracticable measures. Thus it appears that thereare two four
ccs of illulion and mistake, into which moll men plungej whoen
ter a career of political life;
One of them c.mfiftst in originating fchemcs, or conceiving the
ories, not warranted byexpeiience ; and the other, in being I'way
ed by too complying a temper of imita! ion. No man Ihould im
plicitly imitate another in his conduct ; because, every man is
often actuated by motives, which others do not feci ; and attended
bv circumstances, which others do not observe. Nor Ihould any
irian be totally inattentive to the conduit of others ; bccaufe there
are many common points, in which all men Ihould think and ast
alike 4 and in which, the experience of one man may be profita
ble to all other men. To determine in what cases imitation is
proper, requires a dif-ernmcnl which few men possess. Exper
ience is the only fafe criterion by which to try opinions or actions.
Abftraft reasoning may be ufelul, but it often produces conclusions
which experiment will not authorize. Though it mull be con-
that every person should be governed by some fixed princi
ples, and ast in a great degree under the controulof some system ;
vet those principles, and this system, mull he the effect ol exper
ience, rather than theory or imitation. Men of a bold, afpn ing
genius, form their fyllctns too soon and too rashly ; and servile
imitators never form any fyllems at all. But a person, who has
capacity enough to derive profit from his experience, will in food
i'eafon form his rules of conduct ; and he can also determine when
circumftanees require an alteration.
From these flight (ketches, it is evident that the formation of a
good government is a flow, progrcflivc work. Theoretic men may
build fyllems of their own ; men fond of imitation may look
abroad for inllruftion, and perhaps neither con, in the tirft in
fiance hit the true points of legislative wisdom. The wisest law's
and regulations are generally owing to an experiment lefultmg
from the operation of those ordinances, that were originally fra
med with laultsand defects. Hie people ofthe United States have
gone through the firll llagcs of then difficulties. They have com
mitted many errors, which have proved a valuable source of ex
perience. But we ihould not yet suppose ourselves perfect in the
art of government. Many important objects of legiftation are yet
untried and unexplored. In tome of these, we may readily adopt
proper expedients ; but we mud dependon a courle ot experience
to carry us forward to perfection. In this view i.f the fubjeft, it
will occur to sveiy reflecting mind, that candor and patience
Ihould be cultivated among our citizens; and that our rulers Ihould
contemplate', that they Hand on new and critical ground. Their
mod illustrious talents; their roofl persevering indullry ; their
most acute arid attentive observation will not be more than com
petent to the taflc they have to accomplilh. It in this arduous
filiation, they have to contend with any great degree of clamor
and impatience among their cohftituents, tliey will find an addi
tional difficulty in furmountitig the obstacles, that inevitably at
tend ler-iflating over so vail and various a people.
A o-entleman having favored us with a Charles
ton "paper of Nov. 12, it is with great pleasure
that we prelent our readers with the following
excellent, patriotic, and truly federal Addrels:
The Hon. Judge CHARGF. to the
GRAND JURY, Oader SeJJio/u, 1789.
gentlemen,
THE grand inquest of this diltrid; has been of
late years so nnaccurtomcd to receive any
charge from the magiltrate prcfidingin this court,
that were I to prxtermit the ceremony or duty
of addrelling you, it could not be considered as
an innovation introduced in the prefentterm.
The chief reason which renders a charge to a
grand jury neceflary or requisite is, that they
maybe more fttlly inltrutfted 111 the duties of their
office, and be familiarized with the of
proceeding to execute those duties ; that tney
may not only be enabled confeientioufly, as well
as legally, to form a just opinion of the nature of
the clinics with which offenders fhallbe charged,
but also ofthc legality of evidence which may be
produced before them : In fine that they may
have every opportunity of doing justice to theii
country and fellow citizens, by having explain
ed to them how they may bring the guilty to con
dign pnnifhment, and discharge the innocent
from the apprehensions of a public trial. Hence
the result of fucli information would be, a legal
verdict. But-as the practice of these principles
and this procefsare so lrequently Submitted to a
jury of this diftritff, this part of the duty of the
judges in the court of general sessions becomes
in some degree lets urgent and neceflary, than in
the more dillant tribunals ; the common and re
ciprocal intercourse of mankind with each otnci,
furniflies them with more ample and frequent
means of obtaining information ; teache; them
to weiph with caution and candor lubjecfts lub
mitted to their difculfion, and leads them "J'"''"
luntarily through apparent intricacies and subtle
refinements, to decilions formed 011 the ba.ia of
truth, juitice and impartiality. Such is the Ittu
ation of the inhabitants of this diftrtv't and
fll rely it is an advantage which they will ever con
tinue jealous of maintaining, whillt iheflame o
liberty burns with purity, and with
its lately acquired vigor and brilliancy, .o. as
WEDNESDAY, December I'Sg.
knowledge is the distinguishing criterion between
man and the subservient brute creation, so is free
dom the genuine charadleriftic of that part of
mankind, who from their superior intelligence
and more adtive and daring spirit have not fear
ed the resentment of tyrants, but rifqueing their
wealth and their lives have intrepidly encounter
ed a thoxifad difficulties to obtain the object of
their admiration. In this partial view of mankind,
the mind is pleafet! with its reflexions, and the
heartjanimatedby itsfenfations. But when wecon
iider but for a moment, how few nations are pof
fefled of this idol, how do our feelings changing,
recoil upon us, and how do our fympatliy and
joy alternately excite commiseration and grateful
sentiments. For what earthly transport can ex
ceed the state of an independent freeman—what
sublunary misery equal to the wrenched existence
of the Have.
But let us hope that as we have been recom
pencedby the almighty decrees of Heaven in ref
cuingus from our tyrants, that the example of
our success will lead other nations to imitate lb
glorious an enterprise, to aflert their just rights
as men, and to unfetter themselves from the
bondage with which they have been so long op
prefied. Nevertheless in the height of our zeal
for the rights of mankind,and amidftourfincerell
wiflies for the general consummation of then
welfare and liappinefs, we muil not forget thetri
bute so juftlydue for our deliverance, or neglect
the improvement of our own affairs. Whene
ver THE HANDOfOMNIPOTENCE SHALL DEICN
to point out a WASHINGTON among their
NATIONS, THE DIVINITY WILL NOT PROVE UN
FAVORABLE TO THEIR PRATEKS OR TO HIS EX
ERTIONS*
Let our hearts then, in the firft place, never
cease to direct our thanksgivings to the throne of
that Grace which has illustrated our nation by such
unexampled beneficence ; andlet thegrateful ac
knowledgments of our just remembrance of past
services perpetuate theunblemilhed honors of oar
chofenhero. The confidence of the people of A
merica, instead of the jealousy and dijtrujl inci
dent to the various European forms of govern
ment ; and truth instead of that flattery, lhall
weave a wreath of heartfelt fatisfa<tion for him ;
and gratitude instead of the boajied loyalty of the
subjects of princes, and their blind fubmiffian to the
will of a superior, fliall ere«t in the hearts of the
citizens of the United States, the most honorable
monument that ever graced the memory of man.
This elogium of our great and good commander,
has been long iinprelled upon our minds ; and
time but serves to encreafe our admiration of
his excellent qualities, and to supply us with ad
ditional motives of gratitude for his disinterest
ed and patriotic conduct.
Our next care, gentlemen of the grand jury,
will be to watch the motions of our internal ene
mies, to anticipate their various intrigues, and to
disappoint thofefecret combinations, into which
they nmy have entered. It may perhaps, be mat
ter of curious enquiry, though of tinf'atisfactory
inference, to conlider the motives of many of the
objectors to the new constitution ; but this would
lead me into a difcullion too prolix for the pre
sent moment. I will content myfelf, therefore,
with barely enumerating a few of tliefe causes.
Some men feared the loling of that influence,
they had assumed and established to them!el\es,
under the weak and divided governments of the
several States ; some again apprehended that they
would be deprived of the benefits and emolu
ments of certain lucrative offices, which they
held under the refpe<ftive legillatuies of then
country ; the appointments ol which were to be
resigned into the hands of the President of the
Union: A wifh,perhaps, to involve this coilntry
in foine dellructive resolution, might influence
others ; for to men of no property, ortotliofe
who are so embari affecl in their circumstances, as
to hope for no relief from their own labor, or the
arts of peace, or who are tormented with a un
contented factious heart, rebellion and confufion
would yield a rich liarveft : For the honor of the
human race, I hope, there are but few, it any
such among us ; but such have been found in o
thcr nations, and we mult not flatter ouiicHcs
that mankind are more perfect in our time, than
they have been heretofore :—An obflinate fu
perciliousfelf-fufliciency, (therefult of the want
of proper information and candid enquiry) and
a capricious ostentatious vanity of not thinking
like other people, will have its weight and influ
ence with weak minds.—Popularity also has en
creafed its votaries, and afforded men one more
opportunity of declaiming on the danger in
which the liberty of the citizen is likely to be
involved, and of exhibiting their attachment to
this ideal idolatry Nor has jealousy, which
rankles in the hearts of ethers, had less effctt in
\_PubliJbei? on IV edmfday and Saturday A
diff'ufing thispoifon ; for it is observable through
out the whole of the United States, a majority
of the leaders of the oppofitiou of our newly
adopted government, are not natives of our foil ;
hence this pernicious quality of the mind dilplays
itfelf more widely in America ; for doubtlels
there are many among us, who being mere adven
turers, and meaning to return to their native
country, cannot bi-oolc that a rival nation should
bepofiefled of advantages superior to their own :
but, gentlemen, there is another fort of jealou
sy that agitates the foul of others ; I speak of that
mean invidious quality, of its own
demerits and want of worth, endeavors to estab
lish itfelf a character by calumniating the conduce
of others, and by finding fault with what it was
not consulted to "frame : we inaft also expect to
find emiflaries amongst us,who will seek to obtain a
temporary favor of the peoj>le, and who by court
ing and adulating—their weaknesses, will ensure
to themselves frequent opportunities of sowing
discontent and sedition among our inhabitants.
There is,gentlemen,one rank of persons unfriend
ly to the present views of America, who deserve
our real esteem tho we are adversaries in opinion.
I mean those well intentionedingenious citizens,
who arc actuated by the purest motives—the real
love of their country, and its freedom. Jull es
caped from the galling manacles of one tyrant,
they are, perhaps, too overweeningly zealous in
their opposition. But the bed of men will differ
with thechafteft intentions. Let us therefore do
justice to their passionate ardor in the cause of li
berty—anddifcriininate the licentious intemper
ance of a party, from the jealous integrity of a
true republican. For if men have never been a
ble to agree upon the great and solemn truths rev-
Vealed to us in th£ Chriflian dispensation, what
flattering hope can we fofter in our bosoms, that
we fhoulcl be all reconciled in one political pro
blem. Vain hope! Wliilft men are poflelied of
different views of interest—on ambitious aggran
dizement, are actuated by other principles
those of honor or philanthropy—and are encum
bered with the frailnefs of humanity, it would be
foreign to, and inconsistent with our natures, to
expert a concurrence cis sentiment. But as the
noblest religion ever profefled in this world by
mankind, has thriven, and established itfelf under
the intolerant fpiritof its opponents, let us hope
that the work (which future ages, I doubt not, will
honor as the niafter-piece of political wisdom)
shall thrive also under the auspices and modera
tion of its present champions, and the perfecutioii
ofits enemies. The learned and ingenious author
of the Federalist, gentlemen, justly observes :—•
" That a dangerous ambition oftener lurks be
" hind the fpeciousmafk of zeal for the rights of
" the people, than under the forbidding appear
" ance of enthusiasm for the firmnefs and cffi
" cicncy of government. History will teach us
" that the former has been found a much more
" certain road to the introduction of defpotlfin,
" than the latter—and that of those men who
" have overturned the liberties of republics, the?
'< greatest number have begun their career, by
" paying an obsequious court to the people—com
" mencing demagogues, and ending tyrants."—
Since, therefore, there are so many evil and mis
chievous principles meditating against us, and but
one which is truly honorable, how much ought
we to be upon our guard to disappoint or resist a
secret adversary. It is said, that a fettled train
of correspondence was very early established in
this bufmefs, and that it still continues to flowun
interruptibly from its impure source. When fucli
means are adopted, where shall we find wisdom
enough to detect, and prudence fufficient to de
fend us from its evil machinations. Let us, how
ever exert ourselves, trusting that Providence ne
ver will abandon those, whom it has been pleased
to divert from the crooked paths of speculation,
private dishonor, and national infamy, into the
highroad leading to dignity, virtue,and honor ;
aud that this will bo the consequence of our hav
ing happily adopted the Conftitufion, and of our
continuing to persevere (I hope fuccefsfully) to
maintain it unsullied and unimpaired, against the
struggle of our opponents, I could easily de
monltrate to you. This will probably be the sub
ject of another charge, and at a future day. For
the present I will quit this topic, which is so tru
ly dear and intereftingto us all—l mean the wel
fare of our country—and apologizing for having
withdrawn fomuch of your time from the parti
cular official duties of the station you now appear
in, I will proceed briefly to lay before you some
of the more general principles which must guide
your present decisions.
[Having pointed out as usual the common du
ties of the grand jury, he proceeded as follows.]
At the fame time that you are empowered to
examine witnefles against theprifoner, and nonetor hi in, I mil ft inculcate upon you tlie proprie
ty, and neceihty of your lilleningto no otherfort
ot evidence than that which isdelivered to you by
Perfonstnyourprefnce. Hard indeed is the me
thod oi trial before your tribunal, difguftiuo- i„
ome meaiure to your minds and contrary to the
rules of law m other courts; where no decision
is made, no verdict formed, until the tellimony
ot both parties has been submitted tothofe fitting
in judgement. But if you were to attend to writ
ten evidence, it would be placing tliole criminated,
111 a Jiruation infinitely more harsh, and would fa
vor ot a kind of persecution unknown to the free
men ot this country j for no man shall be charged
or convicted ot having committed any crime or
odence, without having those who accuse 'him
brought face to face. The fubttitution therefore
ot written evidence instead of personal tellimony,
v\ ou 1 1i ,>e an innovation of dangerous tendency
and might be made the legal tool of oppression to
the citizen when it can be in no wife jollified by
policy or neceihty. Should a man be found auilty
before you of any offence whatever, upon this
and ° ; teflunony, you brand him with a
which perhaps he may never have an opportunity
of wiping olf. For fliould not his accusers ap
pear before the petit jury at his trial, there is no
method of acquittal for him from the clvirae
which our law points out. True it is the coim
will discharge him; bnt how will he come forth
to his lellow-citizens ? Marked as a b a fe flagitious
character ; and as one who only escaped the pun
ifhnient he justly merited for "his crimes, by the
nt r. or perhaps misfortune of his accuser.
i nici, uon this, gentlemen, to you, because it is
propci you should be well informed upon a point so
favorable to an impartial trial; and it is with the
yjre confidence that I have dwelt so long on thisi
dea, because the judges rtf the court are unanimous.
V 01 tno opinion I have now given you. Perhaps
it would be 1 ufßcient that I fliould add no other
reason than what I have dready submitted to
your consideration. But it is also a maxim a
dopted by one of the bell authors who has writ
ten on the criminal law, that a prisoner has
a right to challenge a grand juror. This, it
is true, has not been recognized by the prac
tice of this court, but I contefs I fliould feel in
clined, if a prifoger should object to one of you,
to upho ,! the objection, and support the prifon
ei s right to challenge ; More innovations have
crept into the proceedings of your body than this
alone ; foi formerly the evidence for the prisoner
as well as againfl him, used to be heard by you!
But this has been discontinued, and thebenefitof
it, I fear, irretrievably lolt to the unfortunate pri
soners. Precedents increafeprecedents; and in
novations multiply innovations. Theruleoflaw
gentlemen in this cafe is very clear, and has lon.'
been underftoodby profeflional men in the man"
ner I have now explained it to you.
. Let us not then permit a doctrine offo alarm
ing a nature, as that of written evidence, tobea
ilopted by us in our criminal courts. If, there
fore, there should be any written documents, ot
the guilt of tiiofe vvhoareto be tried, the
papers and indictments delivered to you° you
will repudiate them as nfehfs and difgraceful to
your tribunal, unless the court should authoriCe you
to proceed thereon. For although it is laid down in
some very good authorities, that written evidence
may be read in cafe of the death of a witness I
doubt whether it would be luffered to be done in
a criminal cause, affeding the life, or even the cha
racter, oj a jeltovi creature. There is, gentlemen
one aa of the Ajfemlly of this State, entitled, << An
atl for the better ordering and governing of negr o ,s
and other Jlaves pafed the 10 th day of May, | 74 0
which is especially directed to be given you in
charge : and although the reasons may not exill
at present, which made it neceflkry at that time
yet, in obedience to the law of my country I mull
remind you of it. I hope, therefore, that you
v-,,1 gl ve it an attentive perusal, and if tliere
fliould appear to you any defects in the policy of
it; or that the law is too harsh and severe upon
that unfortunate race of mankind, that vou will
loft en off its rigorous effects; and that'vou will
shew to the world, that having obtained your own
liberty, yju well know how to prize it, and that
you arc truly fenhble how dear it is to mankind
by extending to the coloured people in our State
as much indulgence as tlieir unhappy fubordi.
nate situation will admit of.
■n r ou C Vfl d S En^' fl, - arCOUrtS ' >t ,t,efe '""M>ons : The'deta "
fM f a> ', SpapCr ' ">P" bl in the DaUvGa"'
of Monday, original y appeared in the I.on„o»- O.acu T
author very pointedly alludes to Mons. Ca .o„ now a'nlv
tie in England, as a prune agent fn the late attempt to defeat the
views of the National Assembly. The following account h«
not vot appeared m tl« papers of this city, and thoiirfubft n
on,:rjrj ,rad >' pub " ihcd ' -c-te
FARISIAN INTELLIGENCE.
PARIS, Get. 6.
OXT■« J 1 . "'tin o'ciocl at niph.
N Monday ihormng the general alarm ofthe
people as to tbe intentions of the Court and
a ftarcny of bread, brought on a gradual infur
recftion m every yuartei- of Paris. The women
particularly, flocked in the most riotous manner
to the place de Louis XlV—they were armed
with stronger weapons than they could wield, and
as they advanced, prefied every woman they met
with in to their service.
The Marquis de la Fayerte and Monf. Baillie,
the Mayor, spent the morning in a fort of detrac
tion, as to themeafures they ffiould pursue. The
troops determined for them, and particularly the
Gardes Francoises, who infilled 011 the Marquis
heading them to Versailles, or taking the alter
native of the lantcrne. A fufficient guard was
then oidered fortlie defence oftliecity—the relt
of the troops, about 20,000 —about 10,000 of the
armed Burgeois, who had before offered to be a
part of the militia, and as many of the dreadful
1110b of July as could join them, armed with pitch
01 vs, <cytlies, hooks, and iron in all fliapes, on
clubs of all sizes, intermixed with women, who
appeared more savage than the men, in all, a
mounting from 40,000 to 69000 people, marched
°J" ort ' ei ' w 'th drums aud colours, for
V erfailles, where they arrived about half pall
nine at night. But the women, who had aflem
bled 111 the morning, had reached Versailles many
hours before them, and aflilled by some of the
Versailles inhabitants, had stormed the Palace
Gates, called for bread, and infilled on the Life
Guards taking the National Cockade.
The whole Royal Family began to be alarmed
for their personal fafety. The Life Guard fired
011 the women, who became furious, and, assisted
as they were, victorious. Five young Noblemen
were immediately facrificed to their vengeance
one run thro the body—one hung—a third cut to
pieces—and two beheaded. The Marquis de la
Fayette came 111 time to save the lives of about
twenty others.
Tuesday morning many of the mob returned
from v erfailles. The heads of the two officers of
the Gardesdu Corps were borneon pikes through
le flreets of Paris ; and couriers, who had ta
ken the firft liorfes they could find, announced
the approach of the whole Royal Family. The
troops that preceded them, began to enter Paris
abunt two o clock, and the line was so extended
with women and club-men, that it was half pail
seven when their Majellies arrived at the Hotel de
llle. y,\ hat parted there has not transpired :
1 hey fleptm the appartments at the Thuilleries
and are to remain there.
The Flemish regiment was divided amon* the
troops, about twenty of the Gardes du Corps" the
King's household, &c. ■
About ten at night, proclamations appeared to
arture the people, that his Majefly had reeeived
the pan hans with great kindness ; that the Gardes
du Corps had taken the oath of fidelitv—had a
greed to serve as the other officers, and to be af
hfted by other officers in their attendance on the
Court . and that his Majefly had signed the arti
cles of the Conllitution.
The greater part of the Gardes du Corps have
killed" Women we 'e wounded and one
• ° CT " 7 \ The tr an factions of the lafl two days
1 the capital are so important, and have followed
each other so rapidly, that it is difficult for any
one 011 the (pot to consider them as he would wiffi
nrbnl 01 r° a PP reheml the extent of the good
or bad consequences they may bring after them
Immediate causes, the influence of individuals
Court aM P r ° the lnach ' na tions of the
Court, all seem inappl,cable and inadequate,
Ln D ened Pa u Vlththe " ,a S»"ude of wha: has
happened : It requires a great knowledge of the
trench character, and of the human heart; are!
ference mull be made to a long lyftem of llaveiy
and of cruel police suddenly removed ; a know
ledge must lie had of what miserable beings mil
ions of men in this country are, and of what all
men may be, in order to account for the manner
111 winch great points are secured in the country
to feel the necessity of their bein £ secured o.
all reconciled to the means made nfe of. The Pa
rifians will be long before they recover from their
worn"" Ito L "
omen, who have at onetime absolutely wanted
corner,''of\hec> " b \ i,,ftinA fro, » tlieremotell
fiXnce of M, ft y ~ tak,ng ' 5oflellio " <> f " the re
lence of Majefly—conquering the Body Guard
ting at the very chair, and personally with the
rkmaiket 1 ' b ™ d . a,ul »"<> »f filliiigrhePa?
an arm-"!')''- g followed b»
0f.",-; md 'h'
riom. cruel, CO rp s 1„ ,l,e Ltira " nPe '
mg the Avoi-ji defenders of hi-, M a i e ft, ' ,
at feeing his Majesty and al] the Rov a l
on the not t ce of a few hours, leaving
inoil mansion, and coming to a ~K.: • Coill
they npveryet flept-in kfo wi „ g P £ »
the confufion, his Majelty signed tI, P , • ?' la|
the Coultitution, that the National Afl- ll 'i| CSo '
terinined on removing to Pari- ,
whole began and endeif in thirty 'i] X h o ll ' !
Inc detail of any of these facts will ,
never be seen in its full extent The n P
the Royal Family to the
be the most engaging, the molt varied
grandest, and the one that afforded -hp , '- '
tieclion, that excited the tendered fa
that ft rack moit forcibly the imariiwr I
that moit forcibly fbocked it by as odd a cm'' J ' U
tionof pleasing and disgusting objects o fTr
ty m fetters, of sober and becoming liberty?
of indecent not, as ever were bronfh tott'h'
rhe points of many bayonets bm- P i 8 '
bread, and alnioft every musket a branch° o T ° f
tory. rhe club-men in bodies between the t
carried whole limbs of trees ard tloo P s
had thrown away theirclubs and poles fofrt*" 1,
Never did BirnL Wood come
nane. rhe women mixed with all m j •
ribbands and flowers-heading rhe Jf
panies, and riding on the cannon. HisMajeliv's
Sw,ft forming a doubleline on each fide the 3
left a clear space between them ; the RovalK '
mily were guarded by mixed troop S ,feven a k eaft
on each fide of the carnage, the rabble were en
tirelykept off, the King and Oueen appeared i„
good fp.rns, and the cry V,v: la
was heard with those of the cry of Vivt
Vwe la Nation J The ThuiHtries palace has'bee'
Abounded the whole day, their Majeflies £
themselves often at the windows, and neverS
out repeated plaudits from the people.
LETTER. from M. dela Ville Roux, tttkCt
zens of I Orient, dated Paris, 0(1. r2 , I 7 '
Oentiemek, y
vnS nfrl! 6 • POllftr - ipt ° f m y last letter , I informed
don«I A^ 1U M tat r 0n t C in S had given to the Na
tional Aileinbly of namingc immilffonerstochool'e
a proper place for them to continue their proceed
ings in. Our commissioners seen, by their report
to have fixed on the Menage des Thuilleries.
in removal to Paris, which was voted on Fri
day evening, appears to be aneftablifhment.dan
gerous to the perlonal fafety of the members; and
lome members have demanded in fpeakin* of in
juries| they have personally fuffered, that the Na
tional Aflembly should renew their debates on the
iacrednefsof the persons ofthe Aflembly—Thatli
bels incendiary writings and mobs, should bepro-
Jen bed. These members infilled that thismotion
mould be considered previous to the proceedings
on the order of the day, notwithstanding which
it was postponed to the evening; and the Bilhop
( rf?!' having obtained liberty to speak, pro
po ed his motion, which he had previously an
nounced, on the finances. It was heard with atten
tion, and highly applauded. This plan of finance
proposes to seize upon the goods of the clergy,
w ioie i evenues amount to 150,000,000 livres; and
t at the National Aflembly should take their debts
upon itfelf. That they should allow 100,000,000 li
v 1 es annually to the ecclesiastics; andto the curates
1200 livres a year, payable quarterly in advance,
ie 1 es a maintenance. This appropriation to
nave preference to every other, and to be augmen
ie< e% eiy ten years, if neceflary, according to the
price of bread. In a few years the people, benefited
by the motion will fee, that'the defidt will difap
at great parr of the rents and annuities
w 1 >e extinguished.The charges of the judicature
and finance will be reimbursed.—That the tithes,
which will be converted intocafh, will beabolift
ed, to the benefit of landholders.—That there
mams of the fait tax will be totally aboliflied.-
1 fiat there will remain, without that part of the
annuities which will not be aboliflied, a revenue
o 35,000,000 livres, to be appropriated to afink
ing fund : f rom which it results. that before ma
ny yeais France will not have occalion to raise
r ' lan or 4°0,000,000 livres, per annum-
A bnhop only could have struck this mighty
~r r ,)een decided,that there wasno occafionto
dilcufs the motion 011 the fubjecfl of the facrednefs
of the persons of the National Aflembly. This
wile conduct has been juftified by the address
wluchtlie city of Paris have sent by their depu
ties, by which in manifefting to the Aflembly the
joy which the resolution of the Aflembly to
continue its fittings at Paris has occasioned, itaf-
them of protection, refpedi and personal
Paris, Ottober 15.
THE KING'S PROCLAMATION.
THE King has ifliied a proclamation, Anting
forth, that left the faithful inhabitants of his pro
vinces should hear with concern the circumstances
that have induced him to take up his refidenceat
I aris,lie had thought it his duty to make known to
them, that being informed of the inarch of the
national militia from Paris, and their definngto
obtain the honor offerving as his guard, it would
have been easy for him to go to any other pl* cf
than Paris ; but fearing that such a resolution
might be t lie cause of much trouble, and confidinfin the sentiments which he had a right to cxpetf
from all his fubjecTts without distinction, he had
come to reside in Paris, where he received the
molt refpedtful testimonies of love and fidelity
from the inhabitants of that good city. That he
is certain they will never attempt, in any man
ner, to influence the free determination of their
sovereign ; and, from the midst of them, announ
ces to all the inhabitants of his provinces that
when the National Afl'embly fliall have terminated
the grand work of restoring the public welfare,
he will put in execution apian, which he has long
fnice formed of vifitingall his provinces to inquire
what good he can do in each, and to prove that
they were all equally dear to him. That he flatters
himfelf this declaration, on his part, will engage
all the inhabitants of his provinces to second the
labors of the National Affeinbly, in order that
France, under the protection of a happy conlli
tution, may enjoy that peace and tranquility, of
which an unhappy divifionhas long deprived it.
This proclamation is dated October 9, and un
der signed DE SAINT PRIEST.
Paris (o<ft. 16th) was again tolerably quiet, and
things went on as usual ; the mob feemecl perfect
ly contented with the ficuation of the royal fami
ly, whose el'cape was so much the object of their
apprehensions. Their Majesties had another le
vee of the foreign ininifters on Wednesday lalF,
but the King spoke but little, and looked despond
ing and melancholly. The court was but thin
ly attended, and had much ihe appearance of a
dumb flievv.
In the affray at Versailles on the 6th of October,
about jo of the Parisian troops and mob were kill
ed, and 80 of the King's guards cut to pieces.
The maflacre would have been much more terri-'
ble, had it not been for his majelly's orders.
LONDON.
The Queen of France owes the preservation of
her life to the gallant Marquis de la Fayette.
There is no nation on earth better informed of
political events that the French, at the present
day. The deputies of all the cities correlpond
daily with their constituents ; and 011 the arri
val of their letters, they are immediately pub
liflied by the committees of correspondence.
UNITED STATES.
GEORGE-TOWN, November 2j.
Eje.trail of a letter from an American gentleman at
St. Augujline, Eatl- Florida, to his friend in this
town, dated Otfober 20, 1789.
" The report of the proceedings between the
Commiflioners of Congress and M'Gillivray,
reached this place three days after the business
was finiflied ; but astiie Spaniards are exceeding
ly cautious towards ltrangers, they take care to
keep the ref'ult of that day a profound secret; 20
Chiefs of the upper and lower Creek nations ar
rived here a few days after the treaty on llock-
Landing broke up ; they frequently wait in a
body on Governor ZESPEDIES, who entertains
them at his own house, and fuffers 110 one except
an Interpreter to be prefent;—it is whispered that
the real'on of M'Gillivray's not entering into a
treaty with the Commissioners was, that the terms
offered by Congress, would, (if accepted of) in
fringe on the treaty existing between his Catholic
Majesty, and the Creek nation ; that such a treaty
exilts is beyond all doubt, for the Kingof Spain,
ever iince the recovery of the Floridas, had paid
an annual tribute of 8000 dollars to the Indians
bordering on the Provinces ; they are regularly
supplied with cloatliing, arms, and ammunition,
out of the King's Magazine here and in Penfacola.
" Trifling as this present affair may appear to
some, I can afl'ure you, from my own observati
ons, a personal knowledge of Mr. M'Gillivray—
the Indians—the extent and situation of riieir
country,—the weak state of our Southern Fron
tiers, &c.
" That the next step Congress takes in the busi
ness will be of importance to the Uniced States.—
" 1 have the greatest reverence and opinion of
the wisdom of our leaders, but am apt to think
that the sword in (lead of the olive branch, will be
their result at last—and therefore a speedy appli
cation of the former might save lives and money."
B A L T I M O R E, Nov. 2;.
Extrafl of a letter from Annapolit, to a gentleman
in this town, dated 21// I\ov. 1 789-
The Amendments recommended bv Congress,
were unanimously adopted by our House onWed
nefday last.
P H ILADELPHIA, December 3.
In the General AHembly on Monday, the com
mittee of the whole went into the further confide
ation of the firit and second amendment proposed
to be added to the conflitution of the United
States. A variety of opinions prevailing as to
both these articles, it was deemed molt proper,
that the conlideration of themfhould be poitpon
ed, that the members might have further time to
reflect 011 them. The committee therefore role,
"reported progress and alked and obtained leave
to lit again. As the fellion is nearly drawing to a
clofc,it is conjectured that nothing will finally be
determined in thisbufinels, until the House meet
again, which will probably be sometime in Febru
ary next.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
PROLOGUE,
Spoken by Mr. Wicnei.l, on Mrs. Morris's Night, before a
Comick Sketch, called The World as it goes ; or The PiClure Ex
hibition—delivered by Mr. Wicnill, soon after the burning
of Mr. D's balloon.
T ,
X HAT all the world's a stage, lweet Shakespeare sung,
And by that thought, full many a fweettale hung,
Of war, and death, and love : The simple maid,
By man's falfe lures, to ruin's gulph betray'd ;
Of kings and qtieeris, and crowns, and witty fools} O
All nature's book difplay'd, uncheck'd by rules, >>
Thole genius-damping {hackles, forg'd in Grecian schools. 3
With mind unbounded, and with eagle eye,
Ev'n hidden things the favor'd Bard, could spy;
Trace the nice windings of the human heart,
Andfearch the feal'd-up secrets, of each ptirt,
Then fly beyond the bourne of mortal ken,
And study when he'd exhauft*d men.
This simile I trust, will change full soon,
And worldly a&s, be each—like a balloon ;
Some fill, some fail, some rife, and others fall,
Some, soaring high, forget this dirty ball, >
'I ill buifling in a blaze,'they lose' life, schemes and all. J
Others again will bullle, flir, and puff,
To scrape together asroftatic ftuff,
Perhaps in luck, they fill the great machine,
Should foraecurfl chance or other intervene,
While panting thousands, gape, and gaze, and choak,
The bubble bursts, and all is 101 l in smoke.
Once, this btcftland, not many years ago, p
Rais'd a Balloon, a grand Mid gallant show, S"
Which nations gaz'd at, as all nations know ; J
'Twas form'd of privileges, rights and law,
And fill'd wish patrictifm instead of gaz ;
The wond'rous fabric rose, majestic ! high !
And spite of british ballad, reach'd the sky ;
There proudly hangs aloft—a ftiining frame,
From which e'en Europe takes the gen'rous flame, *
Shakes oft her (hackles, greatly dares be free,
Raift! a Balloon, like us beyond the sea, >
Fill it with all that's good, and call it Liberty. _)
This night a small Balloon invites your eyes ;
I can't pretend to fay that it will rife ;
I'll do the best I can to make it go ;
But then it's charg'd with wit, and that's oft falfe you know :
Howe'er the wits which we ftiall ufc to night, "0
Are rarified, and fit for merry flight, >
Stev ens, Pi lon, and Foote that waggifti wight. _) x
/go for ballajl, and I freely own,
I fear I'm weight enough to keep it down ;
Howe'er I go, cheer'd by this pleasing thought, >
(All other aids I value not a groat) >
Tis your applause keep* my Balloon afloat. J
[Going Returns.']
But flop.—— l -Egad a mighty pretty joke,
I had forgot the main I was t'have fpokc.
From her I come, whose humble wifti to please,
Has oft been here repaid : While now fhefees
This brilliant show collected here again,
Her grateful feelings render language vain ;
Her thanks ftie promises by afls to fliow,
And [bell rings']— Coming Mr. Prompter—l muftgo, />■
For our Balloon is full, and 1 go up you know, J
NEW-YORK.
Our accounts froiji Franee areinveloped in un
certainty. Though there is 110 doubt of a decid
ed majority of the people in favor of the Nation
al Aflembly, yet it is evident that a great spirit
as fermentation is in existence among them.—
Fraud, ambition and wealth, have too often prov
ed equal to defeating the best devised plans in
favor of liberty and justice. Neither too much, nsr
(oo little, should be the motto of patriotism : This
will point out the golden moment of making sure
the glory, profperity,andhappinefsof a country.
Danger to the liberties of the people, in all re
volutions, arifesfrom the natural pride of the hu
man heart. It has too often occurred, to escape
the notice of the molt cursory observer, that vio
lent partizans are generally impatient of con
troul: This is the firft lyniptom of a despotic tem
per, aiid commonly appears after a series of
wheedling arts, have imposed on the judgements
of the people, and insured an ascendency in their
confidence. By degrees, the weight of party is
ascertained, and from that moment the voice of
reason, prudence and common sense are despised,
and every demand is made with an arbitrary tone ;
justice, honor, and personal rights are facrificed
for the good of the people, pretendedly ; but, in
reality, the establishment of power in the hands
of a majority, who are moulded, controuled and
directed by a demagogue, is the prime obje<fl.
It is too much the cafe that in contemplating
the rights of mankind at large, those of indivi
duals are often considered as grievances—hence
those who are diftinguiihed by pre-eminence, are
viewed with a jealous and envious eye : In all
revolutions, attention to certain diftiuCtions, ap
pears to be a desideratum in politics.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE GUEST. No. 111.
t: The Molt, that has no window for the fun x
" Finds yet a light that leads to genial love. 1 "
AC RE AT part ofinankind are held in bondage to one absurd
custom or another—but perhaps a more ridiculous and mis
chievous deviation from the laws of nature and reason, never ob
tained, than the celibacy of the Clergy. This is a trite lubjecfc of
declamation; but all that has been written, or could be nr-red a
gainst it, would have proved ineffectual, had not the rays of politi
cal knowledge recently bpened the eyes of mankind to their true
interest. There is now a fair profnect that this intolerable yoke
will betaken off the Clergy of the Roman Catholic Church ; and
the door of honorable love, and connubial joys, be opened to them
in common with their fellow men. " Marriage is honorable in.
all:" It is an mllitution wife, politic, and benevolent in itfelf—
and leads to all the tender charities that knit the family of man
kind in the happiest unities of love, concord, and peace.
When I behold a well regulated, happy family, the object in
spires the mod pleanng lenfations and reflections : I call my
thoughts back to the period when the parents of a lovelv progeny
firft commenccd the acquaintance that has proved the origin of l"<>
many agreeable o^umftances —Happy moments of love, honor,
and mutual confidence ! —How refined and delightful the sweet
intercourse of kindred minds ! Their mutual attractions cemented
by the facrcd bonds of wedlock, have gathered strength with ad
vancing years—and their last setting fun lhall go down in peacc.
When this conDe&ion is founded on proper piinciples, it is not
fubjettto those perturbations and deprcilions offpints, which ren
der the marriage state a jest to the libertine, and make
the timid waver and doubt, till time extinguishing the best paflions
in the human heart—-creates an indifference cither to pleasing, or
being J>lealed. The cares of life in every state are many—ln the
married state they are divided, as they increase—and the plcafures
of life are coubled-'-the mind letains its natural foftriefs and ge
nerous sympathy ; and having a variety of objettsto engage its at
tention, those objects interest its feelings, and animate its exertions
till its feli ity consists, in living tothe happiness of its connexions,
and of mankind. Society derives its best security from th<- attach
ments which originate in the ties of Family—fathers, mothers,
and children are the furcft and best pledges of fidelity to the Com
monwealth—to those endearing appellations nothing is ndiffer
ent, that has reference tothe peace, and prosperity, the misfortune,
or misery ot their country ; but the voluntary exiles from the tem
ple of Hymen, while they violate the laws of reason and society,
in pafling thro life in the solitary walks of ban :lo iu, 1 of" bv
degrees the best affeftions—tbey contrast a temper ut infei fibili .y
to the happiness or infelicity of their fellow creiturcs —a*iti t ro;n
negle&ing and being neglected by the bejl part of our fpet -s, they
acquire a morose and censorious disposition—and making war with
the world by then contcmpt for its maxims and customs, they al
ways come off fccondbejl,
NEW-YORK, DECEMBER 9.
A gentleman f/om Marietta, who left this city \ejlerday, on his way
to the Editor with the follotoing account:
About eight weeks fine:-, two brothers, by the name of JohnlWn,
one 12, the other 9 years oid, were playing ort the western bank,
of Short Creek, about twelve miles fron/Wheelinz, flapping stones
in the water—Ata dillanccthey discovered two men, whoappear
ed to be settlers, beingdreffed withcoatsand hats : Thefemen, to
amuse and deceive the children (as the event shewed) engaged in
the lame sport, advancing towards the boys, till by degrees they
got so near, that the children discovered them to be indians ) but
it was then too late to make their escape : The indians seized and
carried them fix miles into the woods, where they made a fire, and
took up their lodging for the night; their rifles ar.d tomahawks
they rested against a tree,and then laid down,each indian with a boy
onhis arm : The children as may befuppofed kept awake—the oldest
began to move, and finding his indian found a deep, by degrees,
difengagea himfelf, and went to the hre, which had then got low,
and (lined it up ; the indian not waking, be whispered to his bro
ther, who likewise crepi away, and both of them went to the fire_
The oldest boy then observed tohis brother, "I think we can kill
ihefe indians, and get away from them"—the agreed it*
the propoldl of attempting it : The oldest then took one of the
rifles, and placed the muzzle, which he rested on a small stick.that
he found for the purpole, close to the head of one of the indians,
and committing the exceution of this part of the business tohis:
brother, ordered him to pull trigger at the moment he saw him
strike the other indian with one of the tomahawks : The oldeit
gave thefignaj; the youngest pulled trigger—the rifle fliot away
the lowei part of the Indian'siace, and left him senseless ; he then
told his brother to lay on, for he had done for his ; after which he
lnatched up the gun and ran ; the boy with the tomahawk gave the
stroke with the wrong end, the india'n ftartcd on his feat the boy
found the mistake, and turning the tomahawk in his hand, gave
him another blow, which brought him to the ground ; he repeat
ed his ftiokes till he had difpatchcd him, and then made the belt
of his way after his brother. When the boys had found the path
which they recolle£tcd to have travelled before, the oldest fixci
his hat on a bush, as a dire&ory to find the fceneof action the next
day. The tomahawked indian was found near the place where
the boys had left him : The other was not there j but was track'd
by his blood, and altho so weakened by his wounds, that he could
not raise his rifle to fire at his pursuers (two men) they fuffered
himto escape ; but it is supposed he mull have died of his wounds.
These two mdians were fentoutto reconnoitre the belt place for an
attack, which was to have been made by a body of warriors,
waiting in the neighborhood. The gentleman who gives this
account, saw, and conversed with the two children, about fix
weeks since. .
Ihe President of the United States has been pleased to ap
point the Hon. William Drayton Judge of the Federal
Court for South-Carolina Diflrict, vice the Hon. Thomas Pinck
niy refigned—alio the Hon. Cyrus Griffin, Judge of the Fe
deral Court for Virginia DiUrift, vice the Hon. Edmund Pen
dleton, resigned.
His Excellency the Vice President of the Unit
ed States returned to this city lafl week, from
his late visit to his feat in Braintree, Maflachufetts.
There was no mail from the southward of the
Patowmac received at the poll office on Saturday
last, which may in some measure account for the
failure of official dilpatches to government re
fpedting the ratification of the Conflitution by the
State of North-Carolina.
The weather is remarkably mild for the season,
the harbor is full of /hipping, and business ispur
fuqd with the greatell conveniency. The price
of wood rather falls than rises—a great benefit
to the poor. Our country friends who mean to a
vail themselves of theprefent rates, multpulhin
their supplies as soon as polfible.
On Monday evening there was very large and
refpeclable company at the Theatre.
ARRIVALS.—NBIV-YORK.
Tuesday. Ship N.St. M. de Patrounco, Cawello, Liflion, 42 days.
Schooner Polly, Crovice, Caps Francois.
ling Polly, Hill, Montego Bay, 42 davs.
Sloop Rebecca, March, Bcrrruda, 20 davs.MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER, XVIII.
Amsterdam, Oqtober 26, 1780.
SIR,
QU EST lON eighteenth.—" Does fufficient tran
, quility, contentment, andprofperity, reign in
thjc places where the war does not rage ? Can one fttf-
Jicientlyfubjijl there without feeling the opprejjion of the
taxes ? Does plenty abound there ? Is there more than
is necessary Jor confumptiov ? Are the people well af
filed and encouraged to pursue the war, and endure
its calamities P or is there poverty and dejection ?"
There has been more of this tranquility and
contentment, and fewer riots, infurre<slions, and
seditions, throughout the whole war, and in the
periods of its greatelt distress, than there was for
seven years before the war broke out, in those
parts that lam best acquainted with As to fub
lillence, there never was or will be any difficulty.
There never was any real want of any thing but
■warlike Itores and cloathing for the army, and
fait and rum both for the army and people ; but
they have such plentiful importations of thel'e
articles now, that there is no want, except blan
kets, cloathing and warlike stores for the army.
The taxes arerifing very high, but there never
"will be more laid on than the people can bear,
becaule the representatives who lay them tax
tiiemfelves and their neighbours in exac r t pro
portion.—^The taxes indeed fall heavielt upon the
rich, and the higher clafles of people.
The earth produces grain and meat in abun
dance ior theconfumption of the people, for the
support of the army, and for exportation.
The people are more universally well effected
and encouraged to pursue the war, than are the
people of England, France, or Spain, as far as I
can judge.
As to poverty, there is hardly a begger in the
country.—As to dejection, I never saw, even at
tha time of our greateit danger and perplexity,
so much of it as appears in England, or France
upon every intelligence of a difaftrons event.
The great source of grief and affiiiftion, is the
fluctuation of the paper money ; but this,although
it occasions unhappinefs, has no violent or fatal
effedts.
I have the honor to be,
MR. CALKOEN. I "'" D A M S '
LETTER XLX.
Amsterdam, Oct. 26, 1780.
o 1 A,
QUESIION nineteenth.—" Is not peace very
vnich longed for in America ? Might not this
tfef.re oj peace indue; the people to hear ken to pro
" pofds appearing very fair, hut which really are not
J" ■ w! ;' c l h the P : °P<■ fight be too quick in lijlenine
" to, and the government forced to accept ?"
1 lie people, in all ages and countries, wish for
peace ; human nature does not love war—yet this
does not hinder nations from going to war, when
it i> neceflary, and often indeed for frivolous pur
poses of avarice, ambition, vanity, refentnient
and revenge.—l have never been informed of
more delire of peace in America, than it coin
iu on to all nations at war. 1 hey in general know
that they cannot obtain it, without to
.conditions infinitely more dreadful than alllhe
horrors of this war.
If tliey are ever deceived, it is by holding out
to them falle hopes of independence, and Great-
Britain's acknowledging it.
The people of America are too enlightened to be
deceived ,n any great plan of policy. They un
derstand the principles aud nature of <roveni
ment too well to be imposed 011 by any proposals
ihort of their own object.
Great-Britian has tried Co many experiments to
deceive them, without effect, that I think it is
scarcely worth lier while ro try again. The liif
tory of these minilterial and parliamentary tricks
would fill a volume.—l have not records nor pa
pers to recur to; but if Mr. Calkoen deftres it I
could give him a J'cetch from memory of tliefe
artinces, and their fuccefL which I think wwulcl
convince him there is no danger from that quar-
I have the hoijor to be,
MR. CALKOEN. J°HNA DAM s -
EFFECT of COLD BATHING.
A VERY beautiful young Lady of Glasgow late
ly met vvitii a niqfl extraordinary accident by the
drawing of oik- of her eye-teeth. The nervous
jyftem was so much derailed on that fide the
face, that the upper eye lid fell over the eve
without the power of the muscles to raise and de
press it at pleasure, in theufual way. After try
ing several remedies without effect, a medical
gentleman, who had long declined public practice
recommended the cold bath, and the effects of
it were wonderful indeed ! In a few days the
power and force were reftpred, and the
eye iid now performs its functions as well as ever.
ODE,
By John Rannie.
I cannot but remember such things were,
And were moji precious to me. Shakespeare.
SCENES of MY Youth ! ye once were dear,
T hough sadly I your charms survey :
I once was wont to linger here,
From early dawn to closing day,
Scenes of my Youth ! pale Sorrow flings
A shade o'er all your beauties now ;
And robs the moments of their wings
That scatter pleasures as they flow.
While, still, to heighten every care,
Reflettion tells me, such things were.
'Twas here a tender mother strove
To keep my happinefsin view ;
I fmil'd beneath a parent's love
That foft compaflion ever knew.
In whom the virtues all combin'd ;
On whom I could with faith rely :
To whom my heart and foul were join*d
By mild Affe6Hon's primal tie !
Who Imiles in Heav'n, exempt from care,
Whiiftl remember, such thincs were.
'Twas here, where calm and tranquil reft,
O'erpays the peasant for his toil,
That, Hrft in blcifing, I was blest
With glowing Friend fliip's open smile.
My friend, far distant, doomed to roam,
Now braves the fury of the seas ;
He fled his peaceful happy home,
His little fortune to encreafe.
While bleeds afrefli the wound of care,
When I remember such things were.
Twas here—e'en in this blooming grove,
I fondly gaz'd on Laura's charms,
Who, blulhing, own'd a mutual love,
And melted in my youthful arms.
Thohard the foul-conflicting ftiife,
Yet Fate, the cruel tyrant, bore
Far from my fight, the charm of life
The lovely maid whom I adore.
'Twould ease my foul of all its care
Could I forget that such things win.
Here firft I saw the Morn appear
Ofguiltlefs Pleasure's ihining day ;
I met the dazzling brightness here,
Here mark'd the foit Reclining ray,
Beheld the skies, whose dreaming light
Gave splendor to the parting fun ;
Now loft in sorrow's fable night,
And all their mingled glories gone !
'Till death, in pity, end my care,
I must remember, such things were.
LONDON.
VALENTINE MORRIS
DIED, as the expreflive common phrase is, of
a broken heart !
Those changes and chances, which had been
through the latter end of his life, from bad and
worle, bore hard and heavy 011 him, till his
spirit, in spite of much strong effort, quite funk
under them.
He had enjoyed in good days, great resources
of temper, intellecft, and good spirits. Onquef
tions of taste and the finer arts, to embellilh and
plealure life, lew men could be more expert and
ready, either for thought or action—either to
tell what others did, or indeed to do, what by
others will be told. J
When his days, alas ! where good no more—
those resources in great part failed him. His con
versation-talents flagged—His mind, excelling
in powers of judgment, gradually grew motion
leis and dim—not willing to distinguish itfelf—
not able to contribute to the delight of others
His temper alone lived to the last—and it is
here, from the fragments of his heart, you could
understand how large and valuable it was before
it was broken ! Unregarded to the last, by ob
duracy, or what is worse perhaps, the love of
money, he was fcarcly ever peevish—penurious
he was never. Little as he had left, the writer
of this article, has seen him, with admiration,
give of that little ; and handled as he was by
his own woes, he (hewed a mind at leisure to at
tend to any severer fufFerings in others.
And yet, in good men's lives, not exasperated
by shame or guilt, what fufFerings could be more
severe ? He loft« wife ,„.ft deplorably; who, if
a Shenftone was a judge, was more amiablethan
himfelf. She had fallen into diftra&ion long be
fore she fell into the grave. By the Coarfefripe
of unrelenting law he was driven from his home
and a homy with such never-cloying amenity as
Piercefield . From thence he was consigned to
the horrors of a life between the tropics-and
from the Weft-Indies to the King's Bench Prison 1
Such alas ! was poor Valentine Morris-whom
M. le Due deNivernois said, was one of the nioft
elegant companioned men in England—whom M
Meuffin Poufchkin congratulated as having the
noWeft featured villa, and the sweetest mfnded
wife—whom the frugal may blame, and whom
indeed too truly, the generous mult deplore !
PROCEEDINGS OF COA'CRESS. ~
ABSTRACT®/P u RNA l of the first SESSION
of the SENA Th of the UNITED STATES
A ESD AY, May iq.
I **■*-* committee to whom was »v> <■ r
1 the Journals of the M
wsrsissitinpsss
inencmg the fi,ft publication on the !irlt Ja' of lune'l
that each member be fur n.fhnl wnh a c,my -that Ihe p, oceVrf '
of the Senate when tliev '1, ,1 A • .1 ' P'oceedtngs
b, , nUK-J, and SSES
" That every xotc of the Senile frail be entered on the t„ ,
and that a brief ilatemcnt of the contents of each petition
iial or paper, presented to the Senate, be also infer ted on i'sH?" 0 *
rials. ineJour
" That the Journals previous to each publication be reviM I
a committee to be appointed Irom time to time, for that - J
Which report was accepted. ' P ur pol< *
The committer appointed to confer with a committee nf ,i
Houfeof Representatives, and report, what newspapers the 1
bers of congress shall be turnifticd with at the rmblic exoc r
ported in part;— Ordered to lie oil the table. * ' n c ' l: "
Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Ma* 21.
Refolvcd, That all bills on a second reading (hall he ci
ed by the Senate in the fame manner, as if the Senate »
committee of the whole, before they (hall be taken n„ , j
ceeded on by the Senate agieeably to the Handing rules unleT
therwife ordered. 0 ' ' so "
Mr. Grayfon was added to the committee appointed on trr, „l,
of May,'' Todefine thee rimes and offences thai lhall becoetv Jht
under the authority of the United States, and ll.eir punUhmmt"
FRIDAY, May 22.
A mefTage from the House of Representatives, bv M Beclt'e •
their Clerk ; who brought to the Senate an enrolled bill
" An ast to regulate the time and manner of adminifte r im ctrU i„'
oaths," figncd by the Speaker of the House of Reprefenutives
and informed the Senate, that the House had agreed in the an'
pointment of a committee on their part, confiftirio- of Mr p>T
ridge and Mr. Floyd, to lav the bill before the President 'after ,t
shall have pal Ted the formalities prescribed in the resolve of the
18th of May.
The committee appointed to examine the afore-mentioned bill
reported, that they had performed the service,—Whereupon the
bill was signed by the Vice-President, and was hv the committee
thereunto appointed, laid before the President of the United Sato
for his approbation. Adjourned.
T U E S D A Y, May 26.
A message was delivered from the House of Reprefentativfi by
Mr. Becklev, their Clerk, who delivered the follow.n • resolve—
" In the House of Representatives of the United States.
Monday, the 2,5 th of May, 1789
" Refolvcd, That a committee be appointed to confer with any
committee which may be appointed by the Senate, on the prop,*
method of receiving into either House, bills or meflages, from the
Piclident of the United States.—The members appointed Mr
Partridge, Mr. Floyd and Mr. Thatcher.
Extract from the Journal.
JOHN BECKLEV, CM.
. Concurred:—And Mr. Lee and Mr. Izard were joined. Ad
journed.
FRIDAY, Mat sg.
A message from the House of Representatives, by Mr. Becklev,
their Clerk: who brought to the Senate anengroffed bill,cn®tled,
"an ast imposing dutiesoa tonnage;"
A resolve of the House of Representatives, of the 28th, providing
the members of the Senate and House of Reprcfciitaiives each,
with a set of the Journals of the late Congress.
A resolve of the 28th, on the report of a joint committee ap
pointed to confer on the mode of furnilhing the members of the
Senate and House of Representatives with newfpapers,journal!, 4c.
Alloa resolve of this day, on the reportof the joint committee
appointed to confer upon the mode of receiving in the Senate
and Houfeof Representatives, bills, &e. from the President of the
United States, desiring the concurrcnce of the Senate thereto.
•' 111 the House of Representatives of the United States.
f( The 29th of May, 1789.
" Mr. Partridge, from the committee appointed toconfer with a
j committee of the Senate on the proper method of receiving into
either House, bills or mefTages from the President of the United
States, made a report, and the said report being amended to read
as followcth :
, '• That until the public offices are established, and the
officers arc appointed, any returns of bills and resolutions 01 other
communications from the President, raay be received in either
House under cover directed to the President ofthe Senate or Speak
er of the House of Representatives (as the cafe may be) and traot
mitted by such person as the President may think proper.—
Refolvcd, That this House doth agree to the said report-
In Senate, read and concurred.—The bill and other resolutions
were ordered to lie for consideration. Adjourned.
T U E S D A Y, June 2.
1 he resolve of the House of Representatives of the 28th May,
was considered, viz.
* In the House of Representatives of the United States.
, Thursday, the 28th May, 1789.
I he House proceeded to consider the two reporft, one made
tl>e 19th instant, the other the 26th instant by the committee ap
pointed to confer with the committee of the Senate,to confidents
report what newspapers the members of Congress shall befurnifli
cd with at the public expense, and to receive proposals for prim
ing the acts and other proceedings of Congiefs: And thefuft re
port in the words following, to wit:
" That in their opinion public ceconomy requires that theei
penfe heretofore incurred by the public, of supplying every mtE "
of Congress with all the newspapers printed at the feat of Con
gress, lhould be retrenched in future ; but as your committee con
sider the publication of newspapers to be highly beneficial indif
feminating ufeful knowledge throughout the United States, and
deserving of public encouragement, they recommend that each
member of Congress be supplied at the public expense with onepa-
P er '» leaving the choice of the fame to each member, and that itbe
the duty of the Secretary of the Senate, and Clerk of the Houfeof
Representatives, to give the neccflarv dire&ions to the different
printers, to furnifh each member with such paper ashefta'l
choose,"—Being again read and debated,
Resolved, That this House doth disagree to the said report The
other report being again read and amended, was as follows:
1 hat it would be proper that it should be left to the Secretary
of the Senate and Clerk of the House of Representatives, to contract
with such person as shall engage to execute the printing and bind
ing business on the moll reasonable terms, the paper being fm nifhf
by the said Secretary and Clerk to such person at the public ex
pense. That such person as they shall contra# w;th, shall be 0-
bliged to render a state of his accounts quarterly; and that fix hun
dred copies of the acts of Congress, and seven hundred copierot
the Journals be printed, and distributed to the Executive and Ju
dicial, and heads of departments of the Government of the Inite
States, and the Executive, Le?iflative arid Judicial of the fe vert
States."
Resolved,, That this House doth agree to the said report.
Extract from the Journal,
JOHN BECKLEY, CM-
And on the qucftion of concurrence on the firft report, it^ as
postponed. Adjourned.
WEDNESDAY, June 3.
Ordered, 1 hat Mr. Langdon administer the oath to the lC
President; which was done accordingly :—And the Vice-Pren cn.
administered the oath occordingto law to the following mem
lo Mr. Langdon, Mr. Wingate, Mr. Strong, Mr. Dalton, * r<
Johnson, Mr. Elfworth, Mr. Patterfon, Mr. Maclay, Mr. Morris.
Mr. Read,J Mr. BafTett, Mr. Carroll, Mr. Henry, Mi.
Grayfon, Mr. Izard, Mr. lew, and Mr. Gunn. .
The fame oath was by the Vice-President administered to the 1
cretary, together with the oath of office. .«
Ordered, That Mr. Morris, Mr. Carroll, Mr. Langdon, »
Read, and Mr. Lee be a committee, to consider and re
mode of communicating the ads of Congress to the fevera
in the L T nion, and the unmber neceflary for that purpose.
journcd. (To be continued.)