[No. LXXIV.j
THE TABLET.
No. L XXIV.
"It is the bufincfs of philosophers to guide and oj
poets to delight mankind."
THE followingfpeculation,with the remarks
thai precede it, were put into the hands
of the Editor for publication, and they are pre
sented to the public as the feventy-fourtli num
ber of the Tablet.
" TO THE EDITOR,
" Sir,
" YOUR early attention to the Essay under thefignature
" 11, which I lately cnclofed to you, induces a performance on
" my part of the promil'e I then made. The following Sketch
" on Poetry, is an effulion of the fame pen, and will, I no
« doubt, afford an equal degree of pleasure to those of your rea
>' ders who delight in PuiLosppHY, Poetry, the Beauties
" of Composition, or liberal Criticism."
M.
SKETCH ON POETRY.
IT has been observed, that it seldom falleth to
the share of one man, to be both a philosopher
and a poet. Tliefe two characters in their full
extent, may be said to divide betwixt them the
whole empire of genius ; for all the productions
of the human mind, fall naturally under two
heads, works of imagination, and -works of reason.
There are indeed several kinds of composition,
which, to be perfect, must partake of both. In
our lnoft celebrated hillorians, for instance, we
meet with ajult mixture of the penetration of the
philosopher, and the ardor of the poet ; (till their
departments are very wide of one another, and
a finall degree of attention will be fufficient to
lhew, why it is so extremely difficult to unite in
any high degree, the excellence of each. The end
of the poet is to give delight to his readers, which
he attempts by addrelling their fancy, and moving
their sensibility. The philosopher proposes merely
to initruct, and therefore thinks it enough if he
jjrefents his thoughts in that order, which will
render them molt perspicuous, and seems bed
adapted to gain the attention. Their views de
mand therefore a very different procedure. All
that pafles under the eye of the poet lie surveys
iri one particular view : Every form and image
under which he prelentsit to the fancy, are des
criptive of its effects : lie delights to paint every
object in motion, that he may raise afimilar agita
tion in the bofomof his reader ; but the calm and
deliberate thinker, on the contrary, makes it his
chief endeavor to seek out the remoter causes
and principles which give birth to tbefe appear
ances.
It is the highest exertion of the philosopher to
Itrip off the falfe colors that serve to disguise—to
remove every particular which fancy, or which
folly have combined, and to prelent to view the
simple and naked tr.utli. But the poet, who ad
drefles the imagination and the heart, neglects
no circumstance, however fanciful, which may
serve to attach liisdefcriptions more closely to the
humanmind. In describing the awful appearan
ces of nature, he gladly avails liimfelf of all those
inagic terrors, with which ignorance and super
stition have furrorrnded them ; for though the
light of reason dispels these shades, they anftoer
the higher purposes ofthepoet in awakening the
passions.
Is is the delight ofpoetry to combine and aflociate;
of philofophyto separate and diftiiigtiifh. The one
releniblesa fkilful anatomilt, who lays open every
thing that occnrs, and examines the finallell par
ticular of its make. The other, a judicious
painter, who conceals what would offend the eye,
and enrbcllifhes «very subjeCt he undertakes to
represent. The fameflbjeCt therefore which has
engaged the investigating powers of the philoso
pher, takes a very different appearance from the
forming hand of the post, who adds every grace
of coloring, and artfully hides the nakedness of
its inwardftru<srure, on derail the agreeable fold
ings of elegance and beanty. In philosophical
difcuitioiis, the end of which is to explain, every
part ought to be unf >lded with the molt lucid
perspicuity. But woi ks of imaginatioji never ex
ert a more powerful influence, than when the
author has contrived to throw over them a /hade
of datirnefs and doubt. The reason of Phis is
obvious, the evils we but imperfectly discern seem
to bid defiance to cautiou—they nffeit the mind
with a fearful anxiety, and by presenting noljm
jt, the imagination easily conceives them bound
less. Thefe'fpecies o'fcompofition diffcritiHfur
rlier "with respect to the Situation of mind requi
site to produce thein.. Poetry is the offspring of
a ciind, heated to an uncommon degree—it is a
kind of spirit thrown off in the ferment of agita
ted feelings. But the ivtmolt calmneis and com
pofareis eliential to philofoplu'cal enquiry. No-
SATURDAY, December 26, 1739.
velty, surprise, and astonishment, kindle in the
bofoin the fire of poetry, whilst philol'ophy is
reared up by cool and continued efforts. There
is one circumstance relating to this kind ofcoifi
pofition too material to be omitted. Jnsvery na
tion it has been found that poetry is ofinuch ear
lier date than any other production of the hu
man mind ; as in the individual, tjie imagination
and pallions are more vigorous in youth, which
in mature age subside, and give way to thought
and reflection. Something limilar to this leenis
to vary that genius which distinguishes the differ
ent periods offociety. The jnoft admired poems
have been the offspring of uncultivated ages. Pure
poetry, conlifts in descriptions of nature, and the
display of the pallions ; to each of which, a rude
Hate of society is better adapted, than one more
polished. They who live inthat early period, in
which art has not alleviated the calamities of life,
are forced to feel their dependence upon nature ;
her appearances are ever open to their view, and
therefore strongly imprinted on their fancy.—
! hdy fhrinkat the approach of a ftorni, and mark
with anxious attention every variation of the sky.
1 lie change of feafbn, cloud and funihine, seren
ity and teuipeft, are to theiu reallources of sorrow
and of joy ; and we lueed not therefore wonder
they Itiould describe with energy wlTat tliey feel
with lb much force. But it is one chief advantage
of civilization, that by enabling us in fbine mca
fure to controul nature, we become left
its influence. It opens many newfources of en
joyment. In this situation the gay and cheerful
can always mingle in company; whilst the diffn
lion of knowledge opens to the studious a new
world, over which the whirlwind and the blast
can exert no influence. The face of nature gra
dually reci.es ft otu vi;-w, and tliofe who attempt
todelcriue ir, often content theiufelves with copy
ing from books, whereby thc-ir descriptions want
the frefhuefs and glow of original observation,
like the image of au objedr refratfied through va
rious mediums, each of which varies somewhat
of its iorin, and lefl'ons its splendor. The poe
try of uncivilized nations, has therefore often
excelled the productions of a more refined people,
in elevation and pathos. Accustomed to survey
nature in her general form, and grander move
ments, their descriptions cannot fail of carrying
with them an air of greainefs and sublimity. They
paint Icenes which everyone has felt, and which
tlietefore need only to be presented, to awaken
a iimiliar feeling again. For a while they delight
us with the vaftnefs of their conceptions, but the
wantof various embelliihinent, and the frequent
recurrence of the fame images, soon fatigue the
attention, and their poetry may be compared to
the world of waters, which fills us with amaze
ment, but upon which we gaze for a moment, and
then turn away our eyes. It is the advantage at
enlightened nations,that their fu peri or knowlege
enables them to supply greater variety ; aud to
renderpoetry more copious. They allure us with
an agreeable succession of images. They do not
weary with uniformity, nor overpower us with
any oneexertion, but by perpetually fhifting the
scenes, they keep us in a conlfant hurry of de
light,
" The poet's eye, in « kl¥: phrettzy rolling,
" Dorh glance from heaven Co earth, from earth to heaven,
" And as imagination bodies forth,
*•' The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
'' Turns them to lhapes, and give.? to airy nothing
" A local habitation, and ajiame."
Shakespea reV Midfummcr Night's Dream.
I cannot help observing that poeticalgenius feeijxs
capable of a much greater variety than talents for
phiiqfophizing. The power of thinking and rea
soning is a simple energy, which exerts itfelf in
all men nearly iu the fame manner. Indeed the
chief varieties that have been observed in niay
be traced to two, a capacity of al'jtrail and mathe
watical rejifoniv.g—and ja talent for cpUcfting fails,
and making obfervatiotLS. These qualities of mind
blendid in various proportions, will for the most
part account for any peculiarities attending men's
modes of thinking. But the ingredients that
conftiiute a poet are far more various .and compli
cated. A poet is in a high degree under tjie in
fhience.of the imagination and paffiong, principles
of mind very various and extensive. Whatever
is complicated is capable of much greater variety,
and will be extremely more diverfified in its form,
than that which is .mure simple. In this cafe every
ingredient is a fouroe of variety, and by being
mingled in the compolition, in a greater or less
degree, may give original catt to the whole.
To explain the particular causes which vary the
direction of the fancy in different men, would
perhaps be 110 e»fy taik. We are led, it maybe,
at firft, through accident, to the survey of one class
of objeifls—this calls up a particular train of
thinking, which we afterwards freely indulge :
[£ Ufb.llJh.tiS bn l\ t<iHefday and Saiurd.tj.~j
It ealily finds access to the mind upon aliocca&uns.
The flighted accident serves to fyggclk it. It is
nursed 1)/ habit, reared up with attention, till ic
gradually swells to a torrent, which bears away
every obllacle, and awakens in the mind a con
fcioufneik of peculiar pofvers. Such sensations
eagerly impel to a particular purpose, and are fuf
ficient to give to compofitien a diftirici and deter
minate character. Poetical genius is I'ikewiie
much under the influence oi' the pafiions. The
pleased and the splenetic, the fcriousand the gay,
lurvey nature with very ditferent eyes. That ele
vation of fancy which with a luelaucholly tur:i
will produce scenes of gloomy grandeur and aw
ful solemnity, will lead another of chearful com
plexion to delight, by presenting images of splen
dor and gaiety,and by inspiring gladii'efs andjoy.
Tho these and other limilarcau'fes may betraced,
that boundless variety which diverfifies the work.*
of imagination, and which is so great that 1 have
tho't the perusal of fine authors, is like traversing
the different regions of thd earth ; fotneglow with
a pleaf'autand refreshing warmth, wlnlit others
kindle with a tierce and fiery heat. In one we meet
with scenes of elegance and arf, all is correct
and regular, and a thousand beautiful objects
spread their colors to the eye and regale the sen
ses : In another we behold nature in an unadorn
ed majestic flmplicity—fcouring the plain with
tempefls—fitting upon a rock, or walking upon
the wings of the wind. Here wc meet with a
Sterne who fans us with the foftefl breeze
of delicacy : And there with a Rousseau who
hurries us along in whirlwind and tempest.
Hence that delightful succession of emotions which
are felt in the bosom of sensibility. V/e feel the
empire of genius, we imbibe Ls impreflicu, and
the mind resembles aninchantedmanfion, which
at one touch of fouie fupejior hand,at one, bright
ens into beauty, and a: another time, darkens
into horror !
Even where the talents of men approach most
nearly, an attentive eye will ever remark some
small shades of difference, fulficient to distinguish
them. Perhaps few authors have been diilin
guifhed by more similar features of character,
than Ho.m ta. and Miiton. That vpjftnefs of
thought which fills the imagination, and thatfen
>;biliry ol l'pirit which renders every circumllance
intereftingare thequalities of both. BuiWilton
isthe molt lubliine—Home p. the moll pjetnrel'que.
il o,ME£ lived in an early age, before knowledge
was much advanced, he could derive little from
any acquired abilities, and may be therefore ftiled
the poet oj naturt • to this fpurce perhaps we may
trace the principal difference between Homer
and Mii.tov. Thp Grecian poet was lefttothe
natural movements of his own mind, and to the
full influence ps [hat variety of paitions, which
are common roall. His conceptions aretheiefoii:
diffinguilhed by their fiinplicitv and force. In
Milton who was Jlulled in almoli every de
partment of science, learning seems fometiines
to have iliaded the fplendnr of his genius. No
epic poet excites emotion lb fervid as Homer, or
poflefles so much fire ; but in point of fubliwty
he can not be compared to Milton. I rather
think the Greek popt has been thought to excell
in this quality more than he really docs, for
want of a proper conception of itseffeCls. When
the perusal of an author raises lis above our ufuaJ
tone of mind, we immediately ascribe these sen
sations to the fublinjc, without considering whe
ther they light on the imagination or the feel
ings : Wheilier they elevate the fancy or only
fire the paflions. The sublime has for its object
the fancy only ; and its influence is not so much
to occasion any fervor of feeling, as the calmness
of fi*ed aflonifhment. If we consider the sublime
as thus distinguished from every other quality
Mt j-Ton will appear to poflefs it in an uncommon
degree : And here indeed lies the feeret of his
power. The perusal of Homer ijjfpires us with
an ardent sensibility. Milton with the ftillnels
of surprize. The one fills and delights the mind
with the confluence of various emotions. The
other amazes with the valbiefs of his ideas. The
movements of Milton's mind are steady and
progrelrive—he carries the fancy through vari
ous fucceflive stages ,of elevation, and gradually
encreafes the heat, by adding fuel to the fire.
1 he flights of Homer are more sudden and trans
itory. Milton whose mind was enlightened
by science aj)pears the molt compre'nenfive—he
fliews more acutenefs in his reflections, and more
subtlety of thought. Homer who lived iuor,e
with men, and had perhaps a deeper tin&ure ot
the human paflions, is by far the most vehement
and piiftnrefque. To the view of Milton the
wide scenes of the universe seem to have been
thrown open, which he regards with a cool and
comprehensive survey, little agitated, and supe
rior to tliofe emotions which affedt inferior mor
tals. Homer when he rises the highest goes notbeyond the bounds ofhuihan nature—heilill con
nects his dcfciiption with human patiions, and
tho his ideas have less Inblimity, iliey have molt
fire. The appetite for gr'eatneis, that appetite
which always grasps at more than it can contain,
is never so fully gratified as in the perusal of pa
radise lojt. In following Milton we grow fa
miliar with new worlds. We traverse the im
jiienfities ot ipace, wandering in amazement, and
finding no bounds ! Homer confines the mindte
a narrower circle, but that circle he brings near
er the eye—he fills it with a quicket- fuccelfion of
objects, and makes it the scene of more interesting
ac'tion. H.
PHILADELPHIA, December 18.
A CORRESPONDENT has lately perused the
publication of a letter giving a curious ac
count of the rifingof the waters in lake Ontario,
which, from their continual advances, have a
larmed the inhabitants around its borders to a great
degree, as several buildings which ltood at a con
venient distance from its ancient boundaries now
stand seven feet under water. He takes this op
portunity to remark that the tide waters in gene
ral 011 the eallern coast of North America seem at
present to be gradually gaining on the land, which
is mod perceivable in high northern latitudes.
With a view to ascertain this matter, he has col
lected a great number of concurring accounts, a
mong which is a certificate, dated 19th of May,
1788, from a certain Joseph Rice, an intelligent
man, who was questioned 011 this account, the
lame who brought through these States a moose
deer, which he caught to the northward, who of
fered in the prefcnce of several credible witnefles
to swear to the truth of his aflertions, which are
as follow—That he, the said Joseph Rice, when
at home, relidcs 011 the banks of Annapalis river,
in Nova-Scotia, about miles from the inouth
thereof—that along this river are large bodies of
ground which fliew the Humps and roots of trees,
an incredible space below the common high-water
mark—that the waters continue to rife higher e
very year—that he had often heard an elderly per
son declare, that they had risen so much there,
that the tides extend now 50 miles higher up An
napolis river than formerly.
PHILADELPHIA,' Dec. 10, 1759.
IN CONVENTION.
Report of the Committee appointed to prepare
the draft of a NEW CONSTITUTION.
WE, the People of the Commonwealth of Pennfyl.
vania, ordain and eJUblifh this ConJlitutiou for its
Government.
ARTICLE I.
Section I. ' I ''HE legislative power of this Com-
X monwealth /hall be vested in a
General Aflembly, which ihall consist of aSenatc
and House of Representatives.
ll.The Representatives Ihall bechofen annual,
ly by the citizens of thecity of Philadelphia, and
of each county in the State respectively, 011 the
Tuesday of October.
111. No person ihall be a Reprcfentative, who
shall not, at the time of his election, have been,
the three years next preceding, an inhabitant of
the State ; and one year next preceding, an in
habitant of the city or county in which he Ihall be
chosen.
IV. The Representatives from the city of Phi
ladelphia and the several counties ihall be in pro
portion to the number of taxable inhabitants;
provided that the number of Representatives (hall
jieverbe fewer than llxty, nor more than one hun
dred: But each county Ihall have, at least, one
Representative. An enumeration of the taxable
inhabitants Ihall be made in three years after the
firlt meeting of the General Aflembly, and with
in every subsequent term of ten years, in such
manner as they /hall, bylaw, direct. Until such
enumeration ihall be made, the city of Phi
ladelphia and the several counties of the State
shall be refpe«tively entitled tochoofethefame»
number of Representatives as is now prescribed
by law.
V. The Senate Ihall consist of not fewer than
sixteen, nor more than thirty-two members, cho
sen in districts, in proportion to the number of
taxable inhabitants in each district.
VI. The city of Philadelphia and the several
counties of this State, Ihall be formed into dif
tric r ts, containing each, as nearly as may be, such
a number of taxable inhabitants as Ihall be en
titled to elect one Senator ; but where that cannot
be done, then such a number of adjoining coun
ties Ihall be formed into one district, as ihall be
entitled to elect not more than three Senators.
VII. The citizens of the city of Philadelphia
and cf the several counties in this State, qualifi
ed to elect Representatives, when afiembled for
that purpose, /hall, if occasion require, at the
fame time, at the fame places, and in the fame
manner, elect for every Reprcfentative, two per
sons resident within their city or county re/pec
tiveJy, as Electors of the Senator or Senators of
their district.
VIII. Within days after their election,
the clectorsof each district /hall meet together at
fomc convenient place within the district, and e
lecft the Senator orSenators for their district.
IX. The Senators Ihall be chosen for four years.
But Immediately after they shall be afli.*mbled in
eonfeqtience of thefirfl election, they shall be di
vided, as equally as may be, into four clafles.
Tlie feats of the Senators of the firft class shall be
vacated at the expiration of the firftyear ; of the
second class, at the expiration of the fecou'd year;
of the third class at the expiration of the third
year; and of the fourth class, at the expiration
of the fourth year : So that one fourth may be
chosen every year.
X. No person fiiall be elected a Senator, who
shall not have resided four years next before his
election in the State, the last year whereof shall
have been in the diltrict, for which he is chosen.
No man fliall be a Senator who shall not have
attained the age of thirty years. And no Elector
shall be chosen a Senator.
XI. No person lliall be chosen an Elector, who
fliall not have resided in the diftricfl three years
next before his election. And no person shall be
chosen an Elector, who is a member of the Legis
lature, or who holds any oflice in the appointment
of the Executive Department.
XII. Until the enumeration before mentioned
shall be made, the number of Senators shall be
sixteen.
XIII. The General Afl'emblyfliall mcetatleaft
once in every year ; and ftich meeting fliall be on
the Tuesday of November.
XIV. Each House shall clioofe its Speaker mid
other officers ; and the Senate fliall also clioofe a
Speaker pro tempore, when the Speaker fliall ex
ercise the office of Governor.
XV. Each House shall be the judge of elections,
returns and qualifications of its own members; and
a majority of each House fnall conflitute a quorum
to do business ; but a fmallernumber mayadjourn
from day to day ; and may beauthorifed to com
pel the attendance of absent members, in such
manner and under such penalties as the House
may provide.
XVI. Each House may determine the rules of
its proceedings, punish its members for disorderly
behaviour, and, with the concurrence of two
thirds, expel a member . And shall have all other
powers neceflary for cither branch of a free Le
gislature.
XVII. Each House shall keep a journal of its
proceedings, and, from time to time, publish them,
excepting such parts as may, in their judgment,
require secrecy .• And the yeas and nays of the
members of either House, on any quellion, fliall,
at the desire of be entered onthe journal.
XVIII. The door* of each House shall be open,
unless when the business fliall be such as, in their
judgment, ought to be kept secret.
XIX. Neither House fliall without the eon
fent of the other, adjourn for more than three
days, nor to any other place than that, in which
the two Houses shall be fitting.
XX. The Senators and Representatives fliall
receive a compensation for their services, to be
ascertained by law, and paid out of the treasury
of the Commonwealth. They shall, in all cases,
except treason, felony and breach of peace, be
privileged from arrest, during their attendance at
the feflion of the refpecftive Houses, and in going
to and returning from the fame ; and for any
speech or debate in either House they shall not
be qnellioned in any other place.
XXI. No Senator or Representative fliall, dur
ing the time for which he was elected, beappoint
ed to any civil office, under the authority of this
Commonwealth, which fliall have been cre
ated, or the emoluments of which fliall have been
increased during such time : And no person hold
ing any office, except in the militia under this
Commonwealth or the United States, shall be a
member of either House during his continuance
in office.
XXII. When vacancies happen in either House,
the Speaker of that House shall ifTue writs of e
lection to fill such vacancies.
XXIII. All bills for rrtifi ng revenue fliall ori
ginate in the House of Representatives; but the
Senate maypropofcor concur with amendments,
as in other bills.
XXIV. No money shall be drawn from the trea
furv but in confequenceofappropriations made by
law.
XXV. Every bill, which fliall have pafled the
House of Representatives and the Senate, shall,
before it become a law, be presented to the Go
vernor. If he approve, he fliall sign it; but if
lie fliall not approve it, he fliall return it, with
his objections to that House, in which it fliall have
originated, who shall enter the objections at large
011 their journal, and proceed to reconsider it.
If, after such reconsideration, lliree-fifths of that
House fliall agree to pass the bill ; it shall be sent,
together with the objections, to the other House'
by which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if
approved by three-fifths of that House, it fliall be
come a law. But, in all such cases, the votes of
both Houses shall be determined by veas and
nays, and the name of the persons voting for and
against the bill ffiall be entered 011 the journals of
each House refpecftively. If any bill shall not be
returned by the Governor within ten days (Sun
days excepted) after it shall be presented to him,
the fame fliall be a law in like manner as if lie had
signed it,unlefs the General Afiembly, by their ad
journment, prevent its return, i„ which r,r •
lhall not be a law. '
XXVI. Every order, resolution or v ote
winch the concurrente of the Senate-mid Hr
ol Representatives may be necefliiry fexent
queftionof adjournment) /hall be preleired?
the Governor, and before the fame (hall t-iU.f
feci, be approved by him ; or, beingdiCapprovcd
by him, shall be replied by three fifths of th
Senate and House of Reprefeutatives, according
to the rules and limitations prescribed in cafe
a bill.
article 11.
Setftion I. Ihe Supreme Executive power of
this Commonwealth lhall be veiled in a Governs
11. He shall hold his office during the term of
three years: and shall be chosen on the
Tuesday of October in every third year, bvthe
citizens throughout the Commonwealth, at the
places where they fliall reflectively vote'for Re
preventatives.
111. He shall not be capable of holding his o f.
sice longer than nine years successively ; nor (hill
he be capable of being elected again till three
years after the nine f'ucceiiive years fliall have
been expired.
IV. He must be„ at lead, thirty years of a«e ;
and he mud have been an inhabitant of this Scale
during seven years before his eletfiion.
V. No person fliall be capable of excrcifingthe
office of Governor, who, at the fame time, (hall
hold any other office under this State, or auv of
fice under the United States.
VI. The Governor lhall, at dated times, re
ceive, for his services, acompenfation, which lhall
neither be increased nor diminilhed during the
period for -which he (hall have been eleded.
VII. He shall be Commander in Chiefof the ar
my and navy of this Commonwealth, and of the
militia, except when they fliall be called into the
actual service of the United States.
VIII. He (hall appoint the Chancellor, Judges,
Protlionotaries, Clerks, and all other officers of
this Commonwealth, whose offices are eftabliih
ed by this Cosititution, or shall be eftablifned by
law, and whose appointments are not herein o
therwise provided for. But no person shall be ap
pointed to an office within any county, who (hall
nothave resided therein one year next beforehis
appointment.
IX. The Governor fliall commiiiionall the offi
cers of this Common wealth.
X. He may require the opinion, in writing,
of the officers in each of the Executive Depart
ments, upon any fubjec r t relating to the duriesof
their refpetftive offices.
XI. He shall, from time to time, give to the
General Ailembly information of the Hate of the
Commonwealth ; and recommend to their coiiti
deration such ineafuiesas lie fliall judge neceflary
or expedient.
XII. He may, on extraordinary occasions, con
vene both houses ; and in cafe of disagreement
between them with refpeift to the time of adjourn
ment, he may adjourn them to fuchtime as he(hall
think proper.
XIII. He shall take care that the laws be faith
fully executed.
XIV. In cafe of the removal of the Gover
nor from office ; or of his death, or religna
tion, it shall devolve 011 the Speaker of the Se
nate until the next annual election of Reprcftn
tatives, when another Governor shall be choien
in the manner herein before mentioned.
XV. The State Treasurer shall be appointed in
the niannerprefcribed by the twenty-nxth fe«ftion
of the firft article of this Conditution : All subor
dinate officers in the Treasury Department, Ele
ction Officers, Officers relating to the poor and
highways, Condables and other township oft
cers, fliall be appointed in such manner as (hall be
directed by law.
ARTICLE 111.
Setfiion I. IN elections by the citizens, every
freeman of the age of twenty-one years, haying
resided in the State two years next before the'ia} s
of the elections respectively, and paid taxes wit l
in that time, shall enjoy the rights of an . e J e<^ LO ii
The foils of freeholders, of the age aforefaid, (ha
be entitled to vote, though they have not pa'"
*11. All elections lhall be by ballot,except tliofe by
tliofe persons in their representative or public ca
pacities ; which shall be viva voce.
111. If eletftions are not properly attende , a
tendance oil them fliall be enforced by law.
A 11 T I C L E IV. . ~
Section I. THE House of Reprefeutativesw
have the sole power of impeachment. .
11. All impeachments shall be tried be(ore
Senate ; and the Chancellor of the Common wea
lhall preside therein. When fitting for that p
pose, the Senate shall be on oath or allnmatl °
No person fliall be convitfled without the con
rence of two thirds of the members present.
111. Judgment in cases of impeachment ma
extend further than to removal from office,
difqualification to hold any office of honor,
or profit under this Commonwealth ; but t . ie F. ( r t .
ty convidted shall nevertheless be liable to in
| ment, trial, judgment and punishment accot
I to law.ARTICLE V.
Seftton I. THE Judicial Power of this Commonwealth (hall
be vested in a High Court of Chancery and a Supreme Court, the
juril'dittion of each of which (hall extend over the State; hi the
Courts of Chancery and of Oyer and Terminer and General Goal
Delivery herein alter mentioned; in a Court of Common Pleas
Orphan*,' Court, Regilter's Court, and Court of Quarter Sellions
for each county ; and in such other courts as the Lcgiflature may,
from time to time, edablilh. But no ipecial commission of Oyer
and Terminer or Goal Delivery (hall be iflued.
11. The Chancellor of the Commonwealth, the Judges of the
Supreme Court, and thejudges of the Several Courts of Common
pleas (hall be commiflioncd and hold their offices during good be
haviour; and (hall, at dated tunes, receive, for their lei vices, a
compensation, which (hall not be diminished during their con
tinuance in office : But the Governor may remove any of them on
the address of two thirds of each branch of the Lcgiflature.
111. The Chancellor, in addition to the other powers and du
ties of his office, shall cause to be tried, by a jury, such material
facts as either party (hill require to be so tried, provided a fpecifi
cation of the fa&s be made in writing.
IV. The Supreme Court and the several Courts of Common
Pleas fhall > besides the powers usually exercised by such courts,
have the powers of a Court of Chancery so far as relates to the ob
taining of tv'idtnce from places without the State.
V. Until it (hall be otherwifc dirt-cled by the Legislature, the
several Courts of Common Pleas (hail becdabliflicd 111 the follow
ing manner : The State, shall, by law, be divided into circuits, any
ol which (hall not include more than nor fewer than
counties : A President (hall be appointed for the se
veral courts in each circuit, who, during his continuance in office,
shall reside within such circuit; and one Judge (hall be appointed
from every county within such circuit, who, during his continu
ance in office, (hall reside within such county : Such President and
Judges, or any three of them, (hall be the Judges who (hall com
pose the several Courts of Common Pleas.
VI. The Judges of the Courts of Common Pleas refpe&ively,
during their continuance in office, (hall, the President being one
of them, be Jufticesof Oyer and Terminer and General Goal De
livery, for the trial of capital and other offenders, for each of the
•ounties within the said circuits refpcttively : But they (hall not
hold a Court of Oyer and Terminer and General Gaol Delivery
in any county, when the Judge of the Supreme Court, or some
of them, (hall be setting in the fame county.
VII. The Judges of the Courts of Common Picas refpc&ively
(hall, duting their continuance in office, be Judices of the Courts
of Quarter Seflions for each of the counties wirnin the said cir
cuits refpe&ively : And they (hall, when fitting in a county,
compose the Orphans' Court and Register's Court for that coun
ty : But the Judge, who (hall reside therein, and the R giflerof
Wills may. at all other times, hold such Courts, fubjeft to the
revision and decrees of the Orphans' Court upon appeal or
otherwise.
VIII. The Judges of the Courts of Common Pleas (hall have
the like powers with the Judges ot the Supreme Court to i(Tue
writs of Certiorari to the Judices of the Peace within the several
counties refpettivcly, and to cause their proceedings to be brought
before them, and the like light and justice to be done.
IX. The Judges of the Courts of Common Picas (hall beCon
fervators of the Peace within the several counties of the circuits,
in which they (hall be empowered to hold Courts.
X. A Court of Chancery (hall be cdablilhcd within each of
the said circuits, except that, m which the high Court of Chan
cery (hall be datcdly held, and the President ol the said Court of
Common Pleas refpe&ively (hall hold the fame, and be diled
the Chancellor of such circuit: He (hall poflefs and exercise there
in the like powers with the Chancellor of the Commonwealth,
cxcept the power of granting injun&ions to day the proceedings
or suspend the judgments ot any common law courts : The mode
of proceeding (hall be the fame as (hall be used in the high
Court of Chancery. From any interlocutorv or final decree in
the Chancery of any circuit, there shall be an appeal to the
Chancellor of the commonwealth.
XI. A competent number of Justices of the Pencc for each
county (hall, from time to time, be ascertained by law ; and the
c itizfas of each county ufp< (hall, at the general cle£tion,
rhoofe double that number, or of the vacancies, that may happen,
and return their names to the Governor, who (hall appoint and
commiilion, for years, ii so long they behave them
selves well, half of the number so cletted and returned : But this
mode of appointment may be altered as the Lcgiflature (hall, by
law, dircft.
XII. A Regider's office for the probate of wills, and granting
letters of adminidration, and an office for the recording of deeds
(hall be kept in each county.
XIII. Prothonotaries, Clerksof the Peace and Orphans' Courts,
Recorders of Deeds, Regiders of Wills and Sheriffs ihall keep
their offices in the county town of the county, in which they ref
pe&ively (hall be officers. And circuit officers (hall keep their
offices in some county town within their circuits refpe&ively.
XIV. The dile of all process shall be, The Commonwealth of Penn
sylvania. AJI profccutions (hall be carried on in the name and
by the authority of the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and (hall
conclude, again ft the peace and dignity of the fame.
ARTICLE VI.
Seflion I. SHERIFFS and Coroners (hall, at the places of the
elc&ion of Representatives, be chosen for three years, by the citi
zens of each county rcfpe&ively; two pcrfons (hall be chosen for
each office, one of whoin for each, (hall be commiflioncd by the
Governor ; no person ihall continue in the office of Sheriff more
than three years fucceflively.
11. The freemen of this commonwealth (hall be armed and
difcipjiued for its defence : The militia officers shall be appointed
in such manner, and for such time, as (hall be, by law, directed.
ARTICLE VII.
AI L debts contra&cd and engagements entered into, before the
cftnhlifhmcnt oft his Condi tutiou, ftiall be as valid againd the com
monwealth, under this Conditution, as they have been heretofore.
ARTICLE VIII.
Section I. A SCHOOL or schools (hall be edablifhed in each
couniy for the indru&ion of youth, and the State shall pay to the
mailers such salaries as shall enable them to teach at low prices.
11. T)>e arts, iciences, and all ufeful learning shall be promo
ted in one or more unwerfities.
111. Religious focieticsand corporate bodies (hall be protected
in their rights, immunities and rdates.
[ Bill of Rights in our next.]
BOSTON, December 16.
The Twelve States of America, convened in
Federal Convention, which proposed the Consti
tution, have now all adopted, ratified and con
firmed it. The Edifice may now be declared com
plete—and on itscompletion we inoft cordially fe
licitate our country.
The following are the periods at which the
several States adopted the constitution of the
United States, viz.—
Delaware, Dec. 3. Pennsylvania, Dec. 13.
New-Jersey, Dec. 10, 1787- Georgia, Jan. 2.
Connecticut, Jan. 9. Maflachufetts Feb. 6. Ma
ryland, April 28. South Carolina, May 23.
Ncw-Hampfhire, June l\. Virginia, June 25.
New-York, July2j, 1788. And North Carolina,
Nov, 20, 1 789.
THE GUEST. No. VIII.
" Ghojls and Hobgoblins rifc f
44 fromjzar, andj'ramfurprife
T
X HE tyranny of superstition over the hopes and fears of an ig
norant world, was long maintained with afway totally incredible
to the present enlightened age.. The agency of evil spirits in par
ticular, appears to have been recognized in such manner, that the
providence ol the Deity was considered in a subordinate and fe~
condary point of view : The Devil is called 44 the prince of the
power of the air From this appellation he is supposed to
44 Rule in the ukitlwind, and direst thejlorm
as if, the Creator and Lord of all, because he had, in some fenfe>
pe rfe&ly unintelligible to us, afligned the air as the element of
evil spirits, had alio given them the sovereign dire£Uon of its
powers, and abilitv to exercise those powers for the annnoyance
of mankind. I iometimes think we derogate from the benevo.
lenceof the Deity, in afligning so large a sphere of action to the
Devil: As a celebrated author fays, 44 I never could think it for
the intcrcfl of religion, that the providence of God (hould be el
bowed, as it were, quite out of the world by a fyflem of doemon
ifm. Human exiitence is a Hate of trial and probation. Natural
evils are permitted, to answer important purpofi s ; they are easily
difcerncd to be a link in that (yflem, by which the univerfc is go
verned, and arc surely competent to the purpoles of providence,
in refining and purifying our natures, and raifmg them to that
of excellencc, which (hall, through the infinite benevo
lence of God, prepare them lor immortal happiness. Upon this
principle it appears to be unneceflary to intei pose upon every de
viation from the paths of rc£titude, the influence of the Devil.
It is wrong : It certainly tends to abate our consciousness of de
merit, and tends to lull our consciences to sleep, when the flings
of guilt ought to rouse us to sorrow and repentance.
LONDON, Nov. 7.
rrlE Duke of Ot leans had a private audience of the Queen, in
her own apartments.
The celebrated Herschell has discovered a seventh Satellite,
moving round Saturn, and Hill nearer to his body than any of the
left. It is about 26 seconds only of apparant distance irotn his
centre ; the exterior boundary of the ring being 22 seconds from
it by eltimation. The periodical time of this Satellite is less than j
24 hours, that of the 6th is 32b. 48 min. 12 fee. S.-.turn's ring con- !
tinues visible by Dr. Herfchell's largest telescope ; and a few nights
ago he saw three of the Satelites on t ie ring at one tune. The ring
appears to him to be every where of an uniform thickr»efs.
Intelligence from Ruflia informs, that they had the rineft Au
tumn in that country ever remembered—All was quiet in that
empire.
The batteries which the Ruflians had taken near Elgfo, were
it tacked by the Swedes, on the 6th Oft. and carried with fixed
Bayonets. The adailants amounted only to 160; the batteries
were defended by 300 Ruffians.
Parliament is prorogued to 10 December.
The I incoJnfhire Ladies under the auspices of Lady Banks,
persevere in their patriotic f "heme, for the encouragement of their
county manufactures. At the last assembly, near 400 persons
v.*cre prefenr, of whom the c\z6i half were Ladies; every person
was compleatly drrft in the raanuta&ures of the county. The
Ladies wore an uniform (luff gown. In one of the tranfparences
was the poitrait of Miss Ives of Spalding, who has brought spin
ning to a perfeflion unknown in England. She has spun 300
hanks out of a pound <?f woollen yarn, which mcafure 168,000
yard*, 01 96 milt?. The Royal Society have rewarded Mary
Powley lor fpinniog 150 hanks out of a pound.
Extract 1 of a let tat from At a-York, dited Augujl 4, 1780.
'• You will fee by our news-papers, that the taxes impoied by
Congress are very trifling; they will, however, raise a large re
venue, as they hold out no temptation to ; and the con
fi.mptioti c Bntifli and Weft-India goods is now very great thro
the United States. But thefc arc not the only rcfouice of
Congress, for it is well known that the sale of the unoccupied
lauds is fufßcicnt not only to (Support the expenees of Government
and pay the intertft of our national debt, but even to clear off
the capital in the course of ten or twelve years.
NE\\ r -YOHK, DECEMBER 26.
TJie President of Hie United States has been
pleased to appoint the Hon. Win. I a m PACA,Judge
of the Federal Court, for Maryland district, vice
the Hon. Thomas Johnson, religned.
MembersofCongrefsnowin this city : Senate,
Irefident of the Senate.—Mr. Dalton.—Mr. John
foil.—Mr. Schuyler.— Mr. King.—Mr. Izard.—
Mr. Butler.
II Ei'RE sf.ntat Ive 5, Mr.Gil man.—Mr.Gerry.—
Mr. l.awrance. — Mr. Benfon.—Mr. Scott.—Mr.
Coles. Mr. Brown.—Mr. Griffin.—Mr. Huger.
Mr. Smith, of South-Carolina.—Mr. White.—
Mr. Otis, Secretaiy of the Senate.
Mr. Eeckley, Clerk oftlieHoufe.
WcUnefday arrived the Britilh Packet Qtitcn
Chariot it, Capt. Radclikf, in 30 days from Fal
modth—From English papers we state the fol
lowing particulars in brief.—
The National Ailembly commenced their pro
ceedings at Paris, the 1 jth of Ocflober.
The contributions of plate for public service,
in France, amount to abour t 20,ooomai ks of silver.
A litt of pensions is publilhed ; there are no less
than 40,000 persons on it ! The names, with the
motives 011 which the pensions are founded,make
three large thick 4to volumes.—Such an influence
■was as a mill ft one hung to the neck of Liberty.—The
new Handing army is established—1 40000 in peace
double that number in war.—A spirit of op
position to the National Aflembly appears to be
kindling in feveralof the provinces—as Norman
dy, Daupheiny, &.c.—The resolutions of the Nobi
lity and Clergy of Thouloufe declare that the
Majesty of the Sovereign is violated by the at
tempts of audacious men, who wiftito govern the
State, and substitute a real aristocracy for one
which is only ideal, which they would fain ere
ate ; that Religion and the Laws are prophaned ;
the rights and franchifes of provinces violated ;
and that the lawful authority of the Monarch and
his liberty, were Jolt in the cabals of the Nation
al Affetnbly."
Martial Law has been proclaimed, but has not
been put in execution but in one instance—the
cafe of the murderers of a baker.—Three di
ftric r ts of Paris are petitioning for the repeal of
this law.—Count Mirabeau carried the following
resolve in the National Aflembly, on the 27th
October, viz.—No bankrupt, or insolvent debtor,
(hall be an Elector, or eligible, or become a
Member of any Council, or Municipal Committee,
or of any Provincial, or National Aflembly."—Oc
tober 28th he carried the following, viz.—That
in all the Aflemblies, there fliould be, previous to
an Election, a table on which fliould be written
the names of all those young men, of the age of
21 in each Canton, who, by their conduct and
morals were worthy of being elevated to the
rank of citizens. —Tliat no citizen shall have pow
er to exercise his right as citizen in more places
than one ; and no person /hall be represented by
yroxy in any Aflembly.
M. Camus the Prelident ofthe National Aflem
bly being unpopular wich the democratic party,
they found means to harrafs him in such manner
as to induce him to relign—and M. Freteau was
elected to the chair.—Oiftober 29, the National
Aflembly decreed, That to be eligible for the Na
tional Aflembly, it is neceflary, besides the usual
qualifications to be anEleiflor, to pay a dire<st con
tribution of one mark of lilver, and to be a pro
pietor of land.
The King still resides in tlieThuillerie?,guard
ed by the national militia. The Ministry has,
in a body, addrefled the National Aflembly, on
the incompetency of the Executive power.
The American funds on the London Exchange,
aje at jopr. cent, and many buyers Alderman
Picket is elected Lord Mayor of London. The
total amount of the several branches of the Bri
tifli revenue, under the heads of customs, excifcs,
(lamps, and incidents, for the week, ending Ode.
23, 1789, as delivered in, to the Exchequer, is
[.294,580 1 2d. The English paragraphifts, in
I'peaking of the President of the United States,
llile him GENERAL. Belgrade surrendered to
Gen. Laudohn, commander of the Emperor's
forces, 011 the Bth of Odt. Say's Weekly Journal,
Ocfl. 31, informs, that the American States have
obtained the bulls from Rome, for the consecra
tion of Dr. John Carroll, the firft Roman Ca
tholic Pi ieft, by the title of Bishop of Baltimore,
in Maryland. The firft article in the capitula
tion of Belgrade, as stated by the Turks, fays,
that God from all eternity, decreed that the place
11-ould betaken : [An artful way of depreciating
the merit of thebefiegers !] —Semendiia, another
Turkiih fortrefs surrendered to the Imperialists
soon after Belgrade—and the Prince Hohenloe
gained a complete victory over Cary Muftapha,
who commanded a body of 10000 men. A depu
tation from the peopleof Colour, inthe Weft-In
dia islands, was admitted to the bar of the Na
tional Aflembly on the 22d Oct.—and their ad
dress received wilh great applause—the president
allured them that their representation ihould be
certainly attended to : The deputies were enjoin
ed to make a deposit offix millions on the altar of
their country, and to give a fiftieth of their pro
perty towards the redemption of the national debt.
The following lines appeared in the Maflachu
fetts Centinel of the 16th inft. under a Iketcli of
twelve pillars, emblematic ol the twelve Hates
now in the union.—Afmall black column appears
at the end of the Colonnade, almost prostrate,
borne down by a paper bill, marked 40 for 1 —
pendant from the pillar :—
The GREAT PALLADIUM of our happy land
Conne6H " the Union" by a "golden chain
Which kept entire, these Federal States (hall stand
As long as Time's old annals shall remain :
And nations fee with joy, the beauteous Dome,
" Columbia's boast, and Freedom's hallow'd home.''
Over the fame pillars in the Independent Chro
nicle of the 17th, are the following: —
To rear the facrcd TEMPLE to the Ikies,
Behold these Adamantine COLUMNS rife ;
Where lading strength unites with beauteous grace,
UNION the Arch* and LIBERTY the Bifc ;
Where glorious PRIDE and patriot VIR.TUE meet.
And INDEPENDENCE finds her fafe retreat.
All hail POSTERITY, if from your hearts
Your Father's Hcav'n-born VIRTUE ne'er departs ;
Then ihali THIS TEMPLE stand, till vengeful fire,
Consume the spheres, and TIME himfelfexpire.
* Sec Hon. Mr. BOWDOIN's Speech in Convention.
The Sele&men of Boston, agreeable to pow
ers veiled in them by the town, have named the
Highway (formerly called Boston Neck) com
mencing from Orange Street, and extending to
the end of the town, Bounding on Roxbury,
WASHINGTON'STREET—and "have recorded
the fame accordingly.
Publifked by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden-
Lans, ncart he Ufatgo-Mfrk eI. New-Yqrk.— pr. oti.JMR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER XXV.
Amsterdam. Oct. 27, i 730.
SIR, ■ "
QUESTION twenty-eighth.—" has America
_ " gained, or lojt, by the mutual capture of
" Jhips ? How much is the benefit, or prejudice, of
" it by calculation?"
America lias gained. She took early, from
the Englifh,ordinance and ammunition (hips, and
supplied lierfelf in that way with thole articles
when Ihe had them not, and could not otherwise
obtain them ; she has taken, in this way, a great
number of British and German soldiers ; lhe has
taken a vail number of seamen, who have gene
rally inlifted on board our privateers ; Ihe has
taken great quantities of provision, cloathing,
arms, and warlike stores ; /lie has taken every
year more and more, fmce, 1775, and will pro
bably continue to take more and more every year,
while the war lasts. I have certain intelligence,
that there have been this year carried intolJofton
and Philadelphia only, ninety-nine veflels, in the
months of July and August. On board of thel'e
veflels there were not less than eight hundred fea
infn : IV'any of the ships were very rich. The
veflels the Englilh have taken from the Americans
wercof (mall value : This year they have been
few in number.
I am not able to give you an exa<ft calculation.
The Quebec ships were worth from thirty to for
ty thousand pounds sterling each, and there were
two-and-forty of them in number.
Privateering is a great nutfery for seamen ;
and if the Americans had not imprudently facri
-ficedfuch a uumber of their frigates and priva
teers in the attack and defence of places, these
alone would, by this time, well nigb have ruin
ed the Britiih commerce, navy, and army.
I have the honor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
LETTER, XXVI.
Amsterdam, October 27, 17S0.
SIR, '
I BELIEVE you will be pleased, when I tell
i you, I now come to the twenty-ninth, and lafl.
queUion, which is, " What are the real damages
" sustained, or ft ill to be fuffered, by the loss oj
" Charteflon ? And mhett influence it has had upon
" the minds of the people ?"
An interruption of the commerce of indigo
and'rice ; the loss of many Negroes, which the
Engli/h will steal from the plantations, and fend
to the Weft-India i (lands for sale ■, a great deal
of plunder of every fort ; much unhappinefs a
mong the people, and several lives of very wor
thy men will be loft: But the climate will be
death to Luropean troops ; and, at an immense
expence of men and money, they will ravage
for a while, and then disappear.
The effect of thel'urrender of Charipfton, and
the defeat of Gates, has only been to awaken the
people from the dreams of peace.
1 he artifices of the English, holding out ideas
of peace, seem to have deceived both the Ameri
cans and their allies, while they wereolily con
triving means to succour Gibraltar, and invade
Carolina. The people are now convinced of their
mistake, and generally roused. But these dis
asters will have no more efFe<ft towards subduing
America, than if they had taken place in the
East-Indies.. I have the honor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
SEASONABLE HINTS.
AT this inclement season, as our seamen are
often put to difficulties, and our mercantile
interest l'ubjeet to great loss in consequence of the
obftrucftion which happens to the navigation by
the formation of the ice in our rivers and bays,
whereby veflels have been impeded in their couife
lometimes to the great injury of veflels, loss of
property, and endangering, if not actual loss of,
the lives ot many of that valuable class of men,
the seamen—as well as attended with iufferino
and hardlhips ; which it becomes the humane to
endeavor to provide against, so far as isconfiftent
with tlieirabilitics : With this view, I have wish
ed t.iat the following simple method oJ" breaking*
away the icca-head of the veflbl might generally
1:2 known —for which purpose the printers of the
several newspapers on the continent may give it
a place in;heir papers.
V. hen a veflel is inclosed with ice, which is
practicable to make a way through, let a boat be
taken a-head of the veflel, and fixed with a rope
through the ring-bolt in the head of the boat, up
to the iiea ! of the bowsprit; then hoist the fore
part of the boat up a little, so that it will have
a bearing forward 0111 his rope ; fallen the stern
of the boat to the head of the veflel, and break a
way tlie ice about the bow of the veflel, so as to
let the stem of the boat fink a little into the
water, and about one third of the length of the
boat from the stern, to have a bearing with the
keel of the boat on the edge of the unbroken
ice a-head : now load the boat with eight or ten
barrels of Hour, or other heavy 1 umber fufficient,
and let two men get into the boar, and rock it
from fide to lide continually, at the fame time
have the neceHavy fail set onboard the veflel, and
the boat will break away with her keel, the ice,
so as to admit apaflage for the veflel.
This method has been fuceeffively pratftifed in
divers inftanccs, so as to bring vetlels through a
body of ice which appeared • .herwife impracti
cable ; and at tlie rate of three miles an hour,
has cleared apaflage out of creeks, and up creeks,
through a body ot iGe which would bear, as my
informant mentioned, a fled and two horses, to
the admiration of foine Ipectators.
The very aukward manner which some foreign
ers, who maybe unpradtifed in navigating north
ern ihorcs, have attempted to disengage veflels
from among ice in our river, has induced the
writer of this more particularly for their infor
mation, to communicate this simple method of
breaking it tor their benefit : The American na
vigators, being remarked for their activity and
ingenuity, may not fiand in need of any hints
on this head. B.
From a Philadelphia paper.
PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
ABSTRACT of JOURNAL of the first SESSION
oj the SENATE oj the UNITED STATES.
TT h U r s d a Y. Aueuft 6.
HE Senate proceeded to a ftcond reading of a bill, entitled,
, "An ast for allowing a compensation to the President and
ice President of the United States," and committed it to Mr.
Morris, Mr. Read, Mr. Elmer, Mr. Schuyler, Mr. Langdon, Mr.
Carroll, Mr. Ellfworth, Mr. Strong, Mr. Few, Mr. Izard Mi. Lee.
"CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES.
In the House of Representattves.
MOND AY, [uly 27, 1789.
The House proceeded to consider the repoit of a committee of
the whole House, to whom was referred the report of the commit
tee appointed to confer with a committee of the Senate, in prcpar
ing joint mles to be eftablilhed between the two Houses, for:he
enrolment, attestation, publication, and preservation of the acts of
Congrels; and to regulate the mode of prefcnting addrclTes and
other acts to the Preftdent of the United Sines : Whereupon,
Rclolved, That the following be eltablilhed joint rules between
the two Houses, to wit:
That while bills are on their pafLge between the two Houses
they shall be on paper, and under the fignatureof the Secretary or
Clerk or each House refpe£tively.
Aft' r a bill shall have paired both Houses, it shall be duly en
rolled on parchment by the Clerk.of the House of Reprefcntatives,
or the Secretary of the Senate, as the bill may have originated in
the oneor the other House, before tt (hall be presented to the Pre
ndent of the United States.
When bills are emolled, they (hall be examined by a joint com
mittee of one from the Senate, and two from the House of Repre
fcntatives, appointed as a Handing committee tor that purpose,
who shall carefully compare the enrollment with the engrolfcd bills
as palled in the two Houses, and correcting any errors that may be
discovered in ihc enrolled bills, make their report forthwith to the
refpeftive Houses.
After examination and report, each bill (hall be signed in the
rclpcftive Houses, firft by the Speaker of the House of Reprefcn
tatives, and ihen by the President of the Senate.
Alter the bill shall have thns been figncd in each House, it shall
he presented by the said committee to the President of the United
States tor his approbation, it being firft endorsed on the back of the
roll, certifying in which Houfethe fame originated, which endorTe
rnent, mall be ligned by the Secretary or Clerk, asihecafemay be,
01 t.ie House in which the fame did originate, andQiallbe entered
on the journal ot each House. The laid committee lliall report
the day of prefemation to the President, which time lhall alio be
carefully entered on the journal of each House.
All orders, resolutions and votes, which are to be presented to the
President of the I nited States for his approbation, lhall also in the
bme manner he prcvionfly enrolled, examined, and finned, and
lhall be presented in the fame manner, and by the fame committee,
as is provided in cafe of bills.
That when the Senate anil House of Reprefcntatives lhall judge
it proper to make a joint addrels to the President, it lhall be pre
lented to hnn in his audience chamber by the President of the Se
nate, in pretence of the Speaker and boiliHonlcs."
Read, and resolved, That the Senate doconcur in the report
A menage from the House of Reprefcntatives, will, a bill, 'en
titled, " An ast lor registering and clearing veffcls, regulating the
coaftiug trade, and for other Durpofes"—
An enrolled bill, entitled,' " An ast for the support of li K l„.
houtes, bcacons, buoys, and public piers"—
An enrolled bill, entitled, « An atl to provide for the Govern
ment ot the territory north-weft of the river Ohio"
An enrolled bill, entitled, 'An ast to eftablifli Executive De
pal tment to be denominated the Department of War Severally
ligned by the Speaker of the House of Reprefcntatives.
rhe three last mentioned bills were signed by the Vicc President,
and delivered to the committee of enrolment for presentation—
Which was accordingly done.
Proceeded to the firft reading of a bill, entitled, •' An ast for
fofoteV n ®ur n p d ofcs" nag the
And assigned Monday next for a fccond reading
enu lTd Se . C . r t ary r/ n a d K?A! ,e u H ' )UrC of R n-efentativcs the bill,
enti led, An ast toeftablifh the Treasury Department." with the
resolution of the Senate to htfjl on their eighth amendment: Also
The concurrence of the Senate in the rcfolve of the House of
~n ,ta " V " ° f lhc "I th < >f Au S u ". the appointment of a
eeffaTv .0 I"" fAj '° °°" Wct the bufinels ne
celfary to be f ranfaft<d previous to arecefsof Congvefs. Adjourned.
ADVERTISEMENT.
T\ TRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE OHIO COMPANY.
\'V H /'^| £AS ' ' h %°P mio ».°f the Agents, it is very muc h
1 ' for tlie interest of the proprietor! at large, that all the
lands of the purchase fWld be divided and alloftrf as imtnedi
ately asmay be-—And in order to accommodate them ecneT.llv
by the opt,on of clailirtg as they may think proper,
tfirir right* or stares (wheie they may poffcfi more than onel
cither together in continuity or bv detachin- ? >
for
one hundred and sixty acre, and donation lo; s , th , r ,
of Congrefc, school lots, and lots appropriated fm- !
poles—also, the two townOiips given by Conerefr f :;10US P>»-
ty,and the towns or situations for towns to bereft T Un " lrr '-
pany lor a luture allotment.—That, all the ref,r>„, , ytm co '»-
be, hy them, the said committee of three di vlt | j7 ""H
upon paper, into forty equal grand div.r.ons of twe
each, as like in quality as may be: That rarl, ! y ; c
divided into five sub-divisions of live Ih a res each ? 1)6
divilion into fc£lions of (ingle Ihare* -—That as f " Cd:llfu'l
- plan iscompletcd, the agents will f„, m c laf s Xil7u m !l >
ers (who lhall not picvioufly class thernfelves) bv fertir r
fliares, into lub-divifions of live, and grand d'iJir on . s orr "iglc
five, and immediately proceed to
by grand divif.ons/fub-d.v.&ms and lain I rl" Udi;
draughts of sub-divisions (into feftiotisj wind, may'be j A
proprietors holding four three, or two and single fare, jfffi
the usage for the greatest proprietoi, or holder of rh, lb ?
number of Shares, to take his lands in contiguity, bylotefth
the southern or northern part of the sub-division where if V
be numbered from north to fonth, and in the wcftctnn #
(by lot also) Where tIK y may he numbered weft A
where sub-divisions niHy be made up of two nmnri r c
Ibares each, and one of one lharef the ?! ' TO
tois lhail receive their feftions, by lot either inthe f P J oprit "
weltern part of the sub-division. V hcraor
med committee, be dnetted to prepare the names and
and make all the ne «<Tar>- a. rangenients forthe intended draueht
-1 hat previous to the drawing for this ultimate grand divZrf
L I "' ,mnS ° f thr P r °P ri «"", as they may be
classed by the agents v orotherwifc) lodged in the Secretary', O L.
and Itts recommended in alleafcs toconfi.lt the and
interests of the proprietors in the order of clafling.
Rtfc/reJ, That the agents will give public notice of the timeand
place ot drawing, and that there be twoperfonsno ways , ntC] T
te 111 the draughts, who (ball be sworn to the faithfully drawing
out the names and numbers from the boxes, and who alone (hall
be employed in this business for the draught of grand divili™
sub-divisions. and feftions. '
7 hat th e C Secre,ar y caufethe foregoing resolutions to
be publifocd in the newspapers of New-York, andthtV™
England States ; to the end that the proprietors at large mavhw
the option of clafling thernfelves as tfiey may think proper And
they are hereby requeued so to do, and to express thernfelves
upon thufubjeli, either to their refpeftive agents, or by info™,
tion in writing addrelfed to, and to be lodged with the Secretary
at his office in the city of Marietta,previous to the firftMondavof
March 1790—Upon winch day it is expected the divifton will
take place. W 1 ST HROP S ARCEST
AW*, 3JMr, K B 9 . Sm "" r> - !e
advertisement.
T "f Gazetle "J United States circulates in every pm if
the UtilOn—being honored by fuhfcribers in Georgia, South ardNirtt
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennjxlvmit, Ktw-Ttrfci
New-York, Connefficut, Rhode-ljland, MaJJdchufetts, Kew-Htipfm,
and Diftjiß of Maine, Canada, Europe, and the Wejl him. Thiiex
ten five circulation renders it a proper vehicle for Advertisimesii
°( " general, commercial and governmental import:—Hy the firticulir
dejirt and advice, therefore, oj a number of its patrons, this titer
rout be ope* J or: he reception of aivertifements of the above dcfirittm-,
which as they will convey oj an inter ejling nature, the Edi
tor hotes tl,eir insertion will meet the approbation oj hiiJriais ii
general. Should the number at any time amount to more than a page»
the Gazette, they will be given in a Supplement.
JOHNFZm.
PRICE CURRENT. A'EW-YORK.
DECEMBER
JAMAICA Spirits, 5 J 3 .„ 5 /g '
J Antigua Ruin, 4Jy. a $J.
St. Croix, do. 4/4. a 4/8.
Country, do. ?/io. a 3/.
Molafles, 9/5. 3 ays.
Brandy, 5/9. a 6/
Geneva,
Do. in cases, aßf. a tgf.
MufcoTido Sugar, 80s. a "*J.
Loaf, do. 1/3.
Lump, do. " ififc.
Pepp". 3/3
Pimento, 1/9. a <?f.
Coffee, 1/8. a \j[j.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3f, a 6rf,
Do. French, 18/T
Rice, 22 f.
Superfine Flour, 45/ I
Common do. 42^
Hye do. 2sf.
Indian Meal, 18f.
Rye, 4 /9. pr. bujh.
Corn, (Southern) 4^
Do. (Northern,) a 4fo,
Beds, firft quality, 45/". a 48/
Pork, firft quality, jof. a 7$J.
Oats, \pj.
Flax-feed, 6 f6 a 5/9.
Ship bread per cwt. 2i_/T
Country refined >
bar-iron, \ 281. « 301.
Do. bloomery, 251. a 261.
Swedes do. 451.
Ruflia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 los a 91.
German steel, per lb. gd.
Nails American, by cask. ) .1
per. lb. 4 d. 7
Do. do. do. 6d. 12d.
Do. do. do. Bd. q^d.
Do. do. do. iod.}
Do. do. do* i2d.( , , 01 ,
Do. do. do. 20d.r 7^a Barf '
Do. do. do, 24d. j
Pot ash, per ton, 391. a 401.
Pearl ash, 48] a 501.
Bets-wax per lb. 2/3.
Mackaiel per barr. 26/T a aof.
Herrings, 18\f
Mahogany, Tainaica, }
pei foot, \ loi
Dominico) do. 9d.
Honduras, do. 7d.
Logwood unchippcd, > R]
per ton. £ Cl
- chipped. 141.
2 inch white oak ) r
plank, per m. \ lol * 10f
-1 inch do.
2 inch white pine plank, 81.
inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 3!. \of.
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
1J inch do. 61. 10f.
1 Mich do. 41.
Pitch pine scantling, 31. 8/!
Cypius R fut shingles, 11, 10/
Do.. 22 inch do. al. 8/T
Cedar inch do. il. icf
•*s. Dollars at Bs.
Do. ±'>. inch do. 11. 6J.
Do. 18. inch do. iSf
Butt white oak staves, 35/.
Pipe do. do. 91.
Hogfhcad do. do. 6\. tof.
Do. do. heading, 81.
rrifli barrel do. staves, 31.5/
Hogshead red oak do. 51. ij-
Do. French do. 51.
Hog (head hoops, 41.
White oak square timber?
per square foot, )
Red wood, per ton, 281.
Fuftick, 101.
Beaver, per lb. 1?/ « 16i/i
Otti r per fk.in, 9f. 3 n f.
Grey fox, 4/7.
Martin, 4f\ 0.
Racooo, 3/6 a 7/6.
Mufkrat, loi. a 14^.
Beaver hats, 64/
Castor do. 48/r
Chocolate, 14 d.
Cocoa, a 80s.
Cotton, lfg.
Tar, pr. bar. 1 if. anf
Pitch, 16J.
Turpentine, lSl.aiof
Tobacco, James River,
Do. York, 44. a 3\d.
Do. Rappahanock, 2d a 3s«.
Do. Maryland,coloured, ss*-
Do. Weftern-fliore, 2d asH
Lead in pigs, pr cwt. SoJ.
Do. bars, 68/
Do. Shot, 68f.
Red lead, 6§f
White do. dry, 95/
White do. in oil, 5A * 2 /
Salt-petre hams, i\d.
Spermaceti candles, 3/
Mould do. nd. a if.
Tallow dipt, 9\d.
Soap, $d. a Bd.
Castile soap, 9d. a 1 oi.
Englilh cheese, pr. Ib. 15"*
Country do. $d.
Butter, if.
Hyson tea, 11 f a iif
Sequin do. 6f6-
Bohea do. 2fs.
Ginseng, 3fa 4/6.
Staich Poland, yd.
Snuff. 2/3.
A Hum fait, water mea- r
sure, pr. bush. )
Liverpool do. a/.
Madeira wine, ? g O / a go/.
pr. pipe, >
Port, 46/.
Lisbon, pr. gal. sf'
Teneriff, 4 f
Fyall, 3/3.
Dutch gun-powder,pr. vs ' t-
Nail rods, pr. ton, 36/.
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal- v; rr
Whale do. pr. barrel, 50/ *s°J'
Spermaceti do, 6/.
Shake-flown 3/^