[No. LXXI.]
THE TABLE T. No. LXXI.
" Suspicion, for the jttojl part, proceeds from Come
fctf-dejeii
TO be of a suspicious temper is not always
incompatible with the character of a
wife or a virtuous man. Such a temper, how
ever, more generally characterizes persons who
are weak or vicious. A man of knowledge and
integrity may have perceived, in his intercourse
with society, so many instances of deception, and
experienced such a variety of misfortunes, that
all human affairs, wear in his view, some appear
ance of uncertainty. When, from such cuufcs a
man guards hiinfelf against the ignorance or dif
honelty of thole with whom he is connected, it
may be denominated circumspection rather than
jealousy. His diltruft is not without some foun
dation in the general reason of things. It is the
effect of reflection and experience, rather than
pallion and prejudice. It operates uniformly, and
does not nnreafonably discriminate particular
characters as objects of suspicion. Though this
kind of caution often has the complexion of jea
louly, when exercised towards individuals, yet it
is not meant to indicate specially any bad opin
ion of them. Nothing more can be inferred from
such habitual precaution in any person, than that
he is fenlible there are vices and imperfections
more or less incidental to all men ; and that the
belt way to escape the snares of the wicked is to
carry a vigilant eye over the whole of mankind.
The suspicion oflow, uninformed minds, is of
quite another nature. It selects individuals as
objects of prey without any reason, and condemns
them without inercy or trial. It so often imagines
evil without any proof as to render a perlbn
wretched in himfelf and dangerous to his friends.
When suspicion operates in this manner, it de
notes weakness or vice. Sometimes people sus
pect others of bad intentions from an ignorance
of the motives and i-ellraints which their charac
ter and luuation are calculated to impose. And
for.ietiines men feel fuel, depravity of heart, as to
imagine :hat others are too much like themselves
not to pratftife the mifchiefs, which are in their
power.
Such low minds are most apt to harbor suspi
cions againlt persons in public office. It is not re
markable that a man, utterly unacquainted with
the inducements that arefpanfible character feels
to difcliarge his duty, should fufpeit that he will
be regardless of the interest or honor of his con
stituents. Nor mult we be surprised. that vicious,
unprincipled men excite clamors among the peo
ple against their rulers; for a difhonefl: man acts
confidently in apprehending from ofhers the
evils which lie would commit, were he in their
situation. To indicate millrull over those we
employ is apt to make them lose their sentiments
of honor, and to weaken the effect of refponftbi
lity. For when a man knows he is suspected, he
becomes familiarized to reproach, and the (ting
ofit is taken away, it is highly expedient to im
pose checks on persons employed in public bnfi
nefs ; but an oversight that looks like jealousy,
will be more likely to make good men bad, than
so reform those who were bad before.
KROM THE AMERICAN MERCURY.
THE OBSERVER.. No. VIII.
On the means of preftrving Public Liberty.
W HEN a fyltem of national freedom hath
been established by great exertions, it be
comes an interesting enquiry how it /hall be belt
pref'erved. The speculative PhiJofopher, and the
practical Statesman have united their endeavors
to answer this question.
A natural thirll for power in the human mind,
with the emoluments springing from authority,
tend to a general encroachment 011 the rights of
human nature—Even patriots and lionefl men
have their weakness, pallions, and appetites, and
in little inltances may be tyrants, while they wilh
for general freedom.
Many fyltems have been formed which in theory
appear almolt perfect—many checks have been
deviled ; Itill there are, and we must expect there
will be, abuses of power, until the nature of man
is delivered from its present imperfections. In
every state, some person or persons mult be repre
sentatives of the public, in whose hands the power
of the whole is lodged, for general protection ,•
andwithout this investiture of public authority,
to rettrain and punifh,the wicked will be a Icourge
to all within their reach ; and it is also poflible,
that the very persons who are clothed with public
power, may become cruel and unjust. Without
power in some national head, anarchy will be the
itate of man, every one will retaliate and abnfe
. his pallions dictate, which is the worst of
WEDNESDAY, December 16, 1739.
tyrannies : With power the rulers of a nation
may do injury, for man is frail—great men may
misjudge—good men may fall.
To give any man unlimited power, is a grea
ter temptation than ought to be placed before a
trail being ; at the fame time, placing too many
checks oil rulers is in effeiit difinembering the
body, and destroys its energy of atftion and of
defence, both against foreign enemies and its own
evil fubjedts. So far as we may judge from
American experience, a nation of freemen, in
modelling their government, arc more apt to err
in overliniiting, than in giving too great scope
to the power of rulers—ln both cases the conse
quence is nearly the fame ; for when the citizens
find their constitutional government cannot pro
tect and dojuftice, they will throw- themselves
into the hands of some bold usurper, who promises
much to them, but intendsonly for himfelf ; and
in this way very many free dates have loft their
liberties. The forming a constitution of govern
ment is a serious matter —the spirit of deliberati
on and concession, with which it hath been taken
up by the citizens at large, and thus far carried
into effecft,is anew event in the history of mankind.
The present conflitution of the United States,
appears to embrace the eflential principles both
of freedom and energy in national operations ;
ttill very little dependence is to be made on this
Conflitution, as a future fafeguard to the Ameri
can liberties.—l would by no means undervalue
those fyftematie produiflions, which we call the
Constitutions of the several States, and of the
Union—they express our present ideas of the ru
lers' power and duty, and the fubjedts' rights—
they are a written basis on which national habits
will be formed, and in this way will cheriilifenti
ments of freedom and retard the rife of oppres
sion—on these your children will look as maxims
of their fathers' wisdom ; but if they have no
other protection, the lust of those who have op
portunity will undermine their privileges. Every
generation must aflert its own liberties ; and for
this the collective body of the people must be in
formed. A general diffuiion of science, in every
class of people, is the true cause of that new
series of events which have taken place in the
United States. In every other country, a great
proportion of the people are unacquainted with
letters—ln several great and civilized kingdoms
of Europe, it is but a comparative few who can
read and write. The vast number of well mean
ing and ignorant people, become instruments of
superior policy, to oppose every effort of nation
al freedom ; but in America there is no order or
great number of people, who can be made sub
servient tofuch ungenerous purposes.—The late
war, was a war of the people—general informa
tion convinced them of its justice and that their
all was endangered ; hence sprang their unani
mity, exertion and patience; and a traitor could
in no part of the country find either asylum or
aid.
The formation of our present government, by
the deliberation of three million of citizens, is the
highest evidence of, and the greatest effe&we
have yet seen from general information.
The fame causes which have given you vidtory,
and a constitution, combining the rights of man
vrith the powers of government, will certainly
be fufficient to preserve national liberty, and make
your children as free as their fathers. A few en
lightened citizens may he dangerous—let all be
enlightened, and opprefliqn must cease, by the
influence of a ruling majority—for it can never
be their interest to indulge a system incompatible
with the rights of freemen. Those institutions
are the most effectual guards to public liberty,
which difFufe the rudiments of literature among
a people.
Let the raof perfect constitution finite wisdom
can devise, be adopted ; if succeeding generations
become ignorant—rifalarge part of the people
are destitute of letters, their precious patrimony
will be cheated from their hands—not perhaps,
by violence, but by a course of artful measures,
against which ignorant men have no defence.
A man declaiming for liberty, and fufFerjng his
children to grow up without education, a<fts most
absurdly, and prepares them to be licentious,but
not free.
The road to preferment is open to all, and the
common citizen may fee his children poflefs the
firll offices of State, if endowed with genius, ho
nesty, and science—having such incentives to fi
delity, the remiss parent is unpardonable. As
the best prefervativeof national liberty, the pub
lic ought to patronize institutions to inftrudl the
children of poor people—for, give them know
ledge, and they will never be the instruments of
injuringmankind. A few incautious expressions
in our Constitution, or a few salaries of office too
great for the contraifted feelings of those who
[Publi/hid in JVedr.cfday and Saturday ,'j
do not know the worth of merit and integrity,
can never injure the United States, while litera
ture is generally diffufed, and the plain citizen
and planter reads and judges for himfelf.
The American Legillature could not do an acft
more favorable to general humanity, liberty and
virtue, than to endow the Uiiiverlities, rising iu
aim oil every State, with such funds in the unlo
cated territory, as would enable them to furnifii
the bell means of inftrn&ion, and at an easy rate,
to the foils of those who have moderate wealth.
Difleminate science through all grades of people,
and it will forever vindicate your rights, which
are now well underltood, and firmly fixed. Sci
ence will do more than this—it will break the
chains, and unbolt the prison doors of despotism.
At tlieprefent moment, France is an instance of"
its influence : The wealthy fubjec r ts of that coun
try are become enlightened, and thus determined
to be free—O France 1 I love thee, and thy sons.
When my nightly fupplicauon forgets to ask a
blefiing on thy great exertions, and on thy coun
cils, I shall lose my claim of being a chriftian.—
August Empire ! Many of thy sons are among the
learned : How often have 1 drank improvement
and pleasure from their pens ; but I fear, I great
ly fear, that the vast mals of thy fubjecfls are not
fufficiently informed in the nature of freedom,
to receive from Heaven andpreferve so rich a gift.
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS CENTINEL.
OF FRANCE.
TRANSLATED FOR THE CENTINEL.
L'ORIENT, OcT:. ij.
Extrafl of a letter front Mom. tie Ville le Roux, ti
his Conflituents at I'Orient, dated Paris, 00. 5.
I ARRIVED at Versailles, having pafled with
out hindrance through the body of women —
This day I found the Aflembly deliberating on the
King's an fwer refpetfting the Bill of Rights,and.
the Constitution decreed by 11s.
I lhall now only inform you, that when the Duke
de Liancourt saw it, and the debates that follow
ed, he afliired Mr. Kervegant, that he had seen
the King previous to his coming to the Aflernbly,
alid thathis Majelty had laid, That "the Nation
al Atfembly Jliall be fatisfied vjithhim that day. I have
accepted, purely and [imply, the articles of the Consti
tution, and the Bill of Rights. IV'e undirfland one
another. f They -diijh jor -what is right, and so do I.
And 1 now leave you to go to the chace."
From the immense numberof people thatap
peared, I apprehended, that the body of women
were on their way : In approaching the avenue,
I found the Life-Guards on horle-back,with sword
in hand.—l trembled for them, as they had ag
gravated the hunger of the people, by giving a
splendid repast some days before, where a profu
lion of every kind of food was seen.—l thought
force was not a proper remedy to oppose to a body
of women, that were to be calmed by more gentle
means : That the barrier, however strong, would
not shut them from the avenue of the throne—for
the event proved that it was ineffectual. They
entered into the King's apartments, where he re
ceived them with affability, and promised he
would issue new orders for a freih supply of pro
visions.
While all the preceding circumstances were
taking place, we held the feflion at the Aflembly.
The deputies of the Parisian women, having a
speaker at their head, demanded the entrance of
the hall—they were accordingly introduced ac
the bar, and told their complaints. The debates
then turned upon deviling a method for the bet
ter providing provisions for Paris—every one was
propofinghis ideas—when a multitude of women,
presented theinfelves at the door, and were dis
tributed by clafles into the different feats, and by
degrees introduced themselves into the galleries*
—The deliberations continued notwithstanding,
a great part of which were applauded.—When
the decrees pafled, a number of women spread
themselves over the Hall, and occupied the Cler
gymen's feats that they had left vacant.
We were upon the point of retiring, -When the
President announced to us that the King had pure
ly and simply accepted the Bill of Rights, and
the articles of the Constitution. We weie ;hen
once more informed that the King's conscience
had been surprised. 1 left the room—the women
and a number of deputies still remaining.
Several reports having circulated that the King
was preparing to depart for Paris, and the Na
tional Aflembly not having received any official
accounts thereof, they resolved, that the person
of the King and they were inseparable. A depu
tation of 36 were named to inform the King of it.
Two of us were dispatched to the King to know
whether his determination was to leave VersaillesCf fitJt, lie anfwere cl, that in one hour he, the
Queen, and his children should set out for Paris.
A short time after I left the palace, in the midlt
of the soldiers, who Ihewed every mark of refpec't
to the people and their deputies.—lhad not been
to the palace a long time before—l think I should
not be fond of returning at so dull a moment.—
The Ocil-ac-bxuJ was filled with people in the
greatest conltei nation. In the room adjoining to
the King's cabinet, was the Queen in tears, with
the King's aunt and lifters, endeavouring to de
vise means for confutation- She appeared too
deeply affeCted to be sensible of their efforts.—
The person that spoke to the King, received this
answer—" I am' exceedingly grateful for the new
proof the National Afc?nlty have given me of their
attachment. 1 never will separate myfelj from them.
— / shall depart in an hour -with the Qjieen a,:d my
children, for Paris—and there 1 Jhall have a room
preparedJor the National A[fembly to continue their
debates in."—We afterwards returned to the Af
l'embly, where M. Neckar's system of Finance
was accepted with some few amendments. In the
mean time the King departed with his family for
Paris."
L O N D O N, October 20.
We have, in our late publications, hinted our
taking exceptions to four eflential articles, which
the National Allembly of France are reported to
have agreed upon. It is not proper for us to ob
ject to any public act done by such a respectable,
numerous, illustrious body of men, without (hew
ing the ground of our objection, which we thus
humbly attempt to perform with becoming free
dom, without intending the lead: disrespeCt to that
august Allembly, or any of the members, the mo
vers of thole relblutions we disapprove of.
In the firft place, then, we highly disapprove
of the very firft art of" incorporating themselves,
or constituting themselves one individual allem
bly, or legislative body !" Here they loft fight
entirely of the Constitution of Great Britain, as
a model, if ever they had it in serious contempla
tion,as we really flattered ourselves they had; per
haps from an over fondnefs we have always en
tertained, for what we have so often called our
excellent and unparalleled constitution, consider
ed in its purity, unmutilated by ministerial dila
pidations, and the inroads of corruption. By
this we loft fight of them, and all their future
plans and forms of government, in hopes, howe
ver, of meeting them on some other plan more
analogous to the temper, habits, ditpofitions, and
views of their fellow-fubjeCts.
For other reasons, besides their abandoning our
system, did we censure this original measure as
we may call it, of this great National Allembly.
First, they are too numerous to fit together,
deliberate calmly, debate freely, difcuii tho
roughly, and decide judicioully all the great im
portant fubje&s respeCting the formation of an
entire new constitution or frame of civil govern
ment, as well the legislative as executive powers,
and the putting them into regular, free, and easy
motion, upon a permanent,and sure foundation.
Secondly, They were a body compoled of such
different clafles or denominations and descriptions
of men, such as Princes of the blood (even some
who have eventual claims to the crown) nobles,
from the highest ranks to the lowest, archbishops,
bishops, abbeys, and clergy in general, great com
moners, representatives of provinces, cities, and
other distriCts, large and small; we may fuppol'e
merchants, traders, bankers, and various descrip
tions of men, all ailcmbled in one great body com
poled of such heterogeneous incompatible parts !
It w? . simply impossible to preserve order and me
thod among them, the very foul of public busi
ness ! To this source we trace all that disorder,
tumult, and confufion, which their proceedings
are branded with by their open enemies and le
crettraitors.
Thirdly, They have no regular, fixed, perma
nent head or Prelident of their Allembly, invert
ed with a proper authority to preserve order, point
out irregularities, correct miibehaviour, and en
force his rules, orders, and directions over refrac.
Tory individuals; consequently all these dillimi
lar members cannot unite and harmonize in one
great, noble, and practicable plan of government,
as defciibed above.
Before we dismiss this subjeCt at present, we
cannot refrain from animadverting upon a pro
pofkl recently made by one of the Members
which we have read with astonishment, viz.
" That the present Allembly fhouhl be diflblved,
and a new one chosen, fubjedt to this injunction,
that not one of the present Members Ihould be
le-eleCted !" This motion, if adopted, would
be a rock indeed upon which the National Refor
mation would split, and make a total fliipwreck,
without a poflibility, much less a probability, of
redemption ; there would be an end of all their
fcliemes and devices at once.
In the firft place, who is to diflolvethem ? Are
they to diflblvethemfelves ? This would be truly
a political filicide, and a mortal Itab to their Coun
try. If they are not to difiolve themselves, then
who is so do it ? The King, about whole power
they are now debating, or wherherhe is to have
a.iy power at all i Will thev quietly take their
diAblution from the man, wliofe negative voice,
to one {ingle resolution of theirs, they are now
warAly disputing ? Admitting they lliould thus
reel from one extreme to another, who is able
and willing to call, convoke, and meet a newaf
fembly, in the fame manner that they have been
called, &c. ? Do they think the King would
chearfully do all this for them ? If not, who is to
do it ? Are they willing to repeat the mode of
calling this present Aflembly, viz. a general ill -
lurrettion, a reiurreiftion of mob law, and of
mob executions, the plundering of the provinces,
and devaluation of the kingdom ? Tiiefe things,
and much more, would probably be the conse
quences of this rash measure of dilTolving them
selves by their own authority,or by the Royal fiat.
As friends of Liberty, and well-wifliers to the
afflicled, diltrefled and opprefled part of the
French people, we deliver our fentimenis freely ;
wilhing that, if these observations reach the eyes
or the ears of the leading men among them, they
may attend to them carefully, and avail tliem
felves of thele friendly hints, for the benefit of
the whole French nation, and for the general
repose of Europe.
FOR TIIE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE GUEST. No. V.
In vain Av a r o rolls to Heaven his eyes,
In vain his prayers ascend in groans and sighs ;
For he that never felt anothers woes,
Can ne'er be grateful for what God bellows,
C HARIT Y is the firft of all the graces—the
child of virtue—the firft-born of Heaven !—the
connecting link between divinity and humanity—
the only medium of intercourse between earth and
heaven : So that a mind destitute of this divine
principle, knows nothing of real religion—is a :o
tal stranger to the genuine spirit of christianity,
and to every anticipation of the joys of Paradise.
Charity never faileth"—it is a perpetual cur
rent of good-will and compaflion, that flows to
wards the whole family of mankind, and visits
with particular delight, the children of fori ow
and wretchedness.
Charity, despises all diflinctions—it feels its
connection with every foil and daughter of afflic
tion , for partiality and prejudice dampen the
fire, and extinguifli the very embers of humanity
and love.
Charity is active and diligent, in proportion to
its means of benevolcnce—cafual opportunities of
communicating, and doing good, do not circum
fcribfc its benignity—it fecks for objects of distress
in their lone recefles.
While the habitual sons of want obtrude their
neceflities to the public view, modest, but unfor
tunate merit, often perishes in its humble retreat
from observation.
The benevolent mind contemplates its duty in
every form—it recognizes it in every adventitious
circumstance of misery—and with alacrity search
es out the lecret abodes of the widow and the
fatherlefs, who have none to help.
It has been observed, that of all the failings
charged upon good men in scripture, the crime of
avarice is nevermentioned—An hard and unfeel
ing temper, is so contrary to the spirit of the gos
pel, that it may with truth be said, tliofewho
shut up all bowels of compaflion towards the poor,
are totally destitute of the love of God.
" The liberal mind devifeth liberal things"
and next to relieving the immediate wants of the
poor, our duty is to devise plans which may abate
human misery, and capacitate those of the com
munity, who arc most peculiarly liable to misfor
tunes, for laying such foundations in early life,
as will moll effectually guard the avenues of want
and wretchedness in riper years : Such 1 conceive
are, providing the means of education, upon so
liberal, easy and extensive a fyllem, as that all,
of every rank, may be equally benefited by the
Inflitution—for that is the best charity which
prevents the ills of life. Would we wilh that the
preaching of the gospel fhoukl not be loft labor
and expence—Would we wiflt that the children
of the poor fliouid efcapa the consequences of
ignorance and impiety,and become ufeful to them
selves, and bleflings to focietv, let a wide door be
tin own open to them, for acquiring a plain, but
ufctul education : ilumau wildoin and benevo
lcnce cannot contrive any expedient so competent
to these objects as PUBLIC FREE SCHOOLS.
NATIONAL MONITOR No. XXX
" In every aje and clime we fee,"
The r<_Hlels sons oi Anarchy;
For let who will or tall or (hnd,
The cards are bad, till I've a hand,
THERE are characters in the world off
A wretched a cast, that the le:-!t cli^np oin "
inent in their pursuits, inspires them withcWri'
and vexation—and V hen precipitated into defnair
of ever effecting their defigus, many degree th» v
are hurried by the impulse of malignant paffijJ
into the molt unwarrantable exceiies : With l'id
persons the liappinefs or misery of mankind are
words without a meaning. Some of this lhn'■
while tliey felt tlieir consequence 111 times which
required, in one direction or another, every j„ e '
cies of talents, or degree of abilities, however
inferior, conducted in such manner, as toimprefs
favorable sentiments of their hoiiefty; but wlu-i,
the hour of cool difcuflion arrived, and nfd e
of the belt endowments for important publicpur
pofes became necetfary, and in consequence tlie<\'.
of they were neglected, an indifferent, uninforni
ed spectator, to hear their difinal ravings, would
think the world was coining to an end—that o t
our prol'pects rested horror and def'pair—andthat
the persons, to whom the management of public
affairs is committed, are the ir>oft unprincipled of
mankind. As " Sol's blcfl beams turn vinecrar
more four," these persons appear to have adeep
er tinge, and a (tronger bitterness added to the
gall of their envy, at the pleafmg profpedswhich
attend our country : t\ more perfect union of the
States—a happier blending of their interefb—
the annihilation of local prejudices—and our ri
ling to real, solid independence, and importance,
in the scale ofEmpire, as a nation, appear to fill
their minds with a hoi rid group of fpeitres, mo
narcy, ariflocracy, and despotism: That ConlK
tution, which is the rich reward of all our conflicts
in the field, andtlierefult of the deliberations in
the cabinet, of our belt, and molt enlightened
Statesmen and Heroes, is a rock of offence to these
troublcrs of our Israel—and to depreciate its ex
cellences—to embarrass its operation, and to vil
lify its administration, are the precious employ
ment of a knot (a small one however) of tineaiy,
felf-opinionatecl, disappointed meu :—Such cha
racters, in greater or less proportions, are to be
found in every country ; but if properly watched
by a wife and vigilant people, their machinations,
so far from producing the mifchief the) intend,
may serve as a ftimulous to keep up the vital cir
culations in the body politic.
1 he wisdom and magnanimity of the United
States discovered in their peaceably adopting a
free and efficient system of Federal Government,
hath contributed more to exalt the American cha
racter in the view of the civilized and refined na
tions of Europe, than all our unparalleled exer
tions in effecting the late revolution ; for the im
pulses of wisdom, in deliberate reflection, touch
thefineft springs in the human mind, while the
influence of oppression rouses only the paflions
to momentary resentment: From this circumjltma,
more than from all others, combined, the wife
and virtuous anticipate our rilingglory, as ana
tion ; but while the friends of our country exult
in this profpeift, so absurd and inconsistent are
others, that they rake delight in contemplating
a picture, created by their own gloomy fancies,
in which darkness andfhadesfo predominate,that
scarce a gleam of light appears: This they are
continually holding up to view, that they may, it
polfible, degrade the people in their own eflima
don; but this " leaven of iniquity will not work
—peace and tranquility are so jufUy preferable
on their own account, to tumult and insecurity—
and we have fuffered so much from following the
advice andcounfel of those who now seek todif
turb the public mind, that our National Govern
ment, pofloflir.g the general confidence, shall con
tinue to appreciate, and gather ltrength, till root
ed and grounded in the affections of the people,
all the powers of darkness shall not be able to
shake it.
UNITED STATES.
FAYETTEVILLE, October 26.
INDIAN AFFAIRS.
On Monday last, the Hon. Benjamin Lincoln,
Griffin, and David Humphreys, Esquires, Coinmini orurs
Plenipotentiary for restoring and establishing peace and amity
with the Indian nations south of the river Ohio, patted throug
this town on their return to New-York.
Notwithstanding the Commiflioners havenot been able t0 c°"
elude a definitive treaty with the Creeks, yet they have rcce,^ C
the strongest afTurances from Mr. M'Gillivray and all "J. ° l .
Chiefs and Head Men present, that the fame tranquility wnic
prevailed for fomc months past, shall be inviolably prefcrve 0
the part of their nation. The Supreme Executive of the " >ta^ C '
Georgia are also taking efficient rneafures for preventing
1 ages and provocations on the part of the inhabitants of t e r
tiers of that State. , j
We learn that the Commiflioners sent messages to the c
nations of Indians, which are at peace with the United •
We have likewise been favored with the following auL 1
communications :
Ame [fag eto the Cherokee nations of Indians, from the
Plenipotentiaryfor re florins and ejiablifhing peace and ami ) j
the United States of America, and all the A d,an natw'i, M'
within the limits oj the /aid States, fouthiuard of the rivet
BROTHERS OF THE CHEROKEE NATION, . f rQta
WE have been made very happy receiving informal- 0
the public newspapers, that on the 16th of June lait, at r b^
concluded with your nation, by the Comnaifiioaer 0Caioiina in behalf of that State; and that in this trucc a treaty
■was ftipuldted to be held as soon aspoflible,and 111 the mean time
that all hostilities (hould cease on both lides.
Whereupon, we the said commilfioners Plenipotentiary afore
faid, do think proper to confirm the said truce, and to give the
ftrongefl aflurances of the friendly disposition of the United States
towards the Cherokee nation. And we have made the lame
known to all those whom it might concern, and particularly to
all the inhabitants of the frontiers bordering on the Cherokee
townsand settlements, declaring, in confequencc ot the lull powers
veiled in us by the Supreme Executive of the United States of A
merica, that it isthe sincere intention of the said States to cultivate
a friendly intercourse between our citizens and your people, and
ftriaiy enjoining an obedience of the truce aforefaid upon the
former.
Head Men and Warring Chiefs of the Cheiokees, hearken to
whqt we have to fay to you.
Notwithftariding there arefomc difficulties arising from the lo
cal claims of Nouh Carolina, which prevent as at present from
writing to you so fully as we could wish, yet we would nut omit
so good an opportunity to affureyou, that when those difficulties
(hall be removed the general government of the United States
will be defnous to take every wile measure to carry into effect the
substance of the treaty of Hopewell, .is well as to convince you of
their justice and friendfhip.
NOW, BROTHERS,
Wc have nothing more to add at :his time, except that we wiih
youall the happiness which we wiih the mod dear of our fellow
citizens; and that we will fend to you an.iher mefl'a s e on the
fubjeft of public affairs, before we [hall return tothebeioved city
of Congress from whence we came.
Done at Savannah, under our hands and feats, this 13th day of Sep
tember, in the year of our Lord otte thousand seven hundred and
eighty-nine, and in the Jour teenth year oj the Independence of the
United States. . (Signed) B. LIN'COI N,
C. GRIFFIN,'
D. HUMPHREYS.
Attejl. David S. Franks, Secretary.
TO ALL THOSE WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
The Comnijjiontrs of the i nited States of America for rejloring and ef
taHi/hin* peace and amity, between the United States and all nations
of Indians situated within the limits of the said States, southward of
the river Ohw y fend Greeting :
FORASMUCH a* we have been given to undcrftand that a
truce has lately been concluded at the Warlord, between the
Commiflioner of the State of North Carolina on the one part,
and the Head Men of the Cherokees, on the other, in expecta
tion that a farther negociation for the purpose of eftablifhmg per
manent peace and tranquility, will take place as soon as the cir
cumstances may admit : And whereas we have sent an official
message to the Cherokee nation, with full aflurances of-the con
tinuation of the good dispositions and friendly intentions of the
United States towards them.
Now, therefore, We, the Commiflioners Plenipotentiary afore
faid, do think proper to make the fame known to all those whom
it may concern, and particularly to ail the inhabitants of the
frontiers bordering on the townsand fettlementi of the said Che
rokee nation. Aud we do declare, in virtue of the full powers
veiled iu us by the Supieme Executive of the United States of A
merica, that it is the lincere intention of the said United States to
cultivate a friendly intercomfe and perpetual harmony, between
the citizens of the United States and the Southern Indians on their
frontiers, upon terms of perfi tt equality, and mutual advantage.
We theiefore enjoin an obfeivance of the truce aforefaid ; and
further declare, that any infraction of the tranquility now fub
lifting between the said eontra&ing parties, would directly con
travene the inan.irft intention, and highly incur the difplcafure of
the Supreme Authority of the United State® of America.
Von; at Savannah, under our hands and seals, this thirteenth day of
September, in the \ear oj our Lord, one thoufandjhen hundred and
ei,htinine % and in thefourteenth year oj the Independence of the
United States of America. B. LINCOLN,
C. GRIFFIN,
D. HUMPHREYS.
Attcft. David S. Franks, Sec'rv.
.HeAn Men akd Warriors of all the Cherokf.es,
AV F. lent to you a friendly talk from Savannah, about one moon
part ; but least that fhuuld not have reached you all, we now re
peat it. We farther inform you, that, altho a formal treaty of
peace has not been concluded with the Creek Nation, yet we have
received positive and repeated affuranc s from them, that the fame
tranquility which now prevails, fliall be faithfully preserved on
their part.
Brotrf.r s,
Had not the hunting season commenccd, so as to prevent us
from finding you at home,we fnould have been happy in feeing you
perfonallv, before we returned to the far distant white town of
Congrels : as that will now be impolTible, we conclude by cau
tioning you to beware of listening to bad men in such a manner
as to interrupt the truce concluded between you, and the coininif
fioner of North-Carolina.
Now Broth er s,
In alluring you that the general government of the L'nited
States will always do you flnft jullicc, wc bid you farewell.
Done at Augufli. this fifth day of Oclober. in the year of our Lord,
one thousand f.ven hundred and eighty-nine and in tne fourteenth
year of the independence of America,
B. LINCOLN.
C. GRIFFIN.
D HUMPHREYS.
Attest, David S. Franks, Sec'ry.
B O S T O N, December j.
INCREASE OF COMMERCE.
Wc inform, as evidencing this, that one hun
dred nr.d eighty-tvio ships and vefl'els have arrived
in this port, since the 4th of August last, from
foreign parts. The number of vellels building,
r 'SS'"g a "d repairing in this harbor, and in the
leveral rivers, is another evidence of increasing
navigation.
" Ftarlefs now of hostile fleets.
Commerce spreads here native fail,
Peace the honest Merchant greets,
While Plenty flows on ev'ry gale."
ANNAPOLIS, DEC. 3.
On Wednesday the nth ultimo, St. John's Col
lege, in this city, was opened, and dedicated with
much solemnity, in the presence of a numerous
and refpet'table concourse of people.
NORFOLK, November 28.
A letter from Augnfta, dated o«ft. t J, fays, the
Governor of Georgia has received a dispatch from
Col. Howell, of htfingham county, announcing
that depredations have already been committed
by the Indians, since their departure from Rock
Landing, by taking four negroes and ahorf'e from
Ca|>r. Bird, and threehorfes from Mr. Loftinger ;
and that when a party had gone in pursuit. Like
wile had received information by express, vrlio
arrived on TuefJa- i Wafliington county,
that alarming d pre nj are co mmitting by our
savage foes,- tl.;*y ; burnt Kemp's fort, and
several houses, .im! ,ve t'n]l fcopc to their natu
ral barbarity, in cxsrciii g their usual cruelties.
Two families have Lc<:,i iken from Greene coun
ty, and carried to the Indian country.
EXTRACTS from A POEM,
On THE PRESIDENT of the United States,
PuWJhcd in the MASSACHUSETTS CENTINEL.
grateful hearts with ihoutsof loud applause,
Hail the DEFENDER of his country's cause,
The CHIEF delighted, heais the loud acclaim,
For none, unheeding, near the voice of Fame :
And feels, unlike the heroes of mankind,
The conscious plaudit of the approving mind.
For pride may boait, yet merit only knows,
The inward Ljifs which alone bellows.
Tis not the fick'ning blail of party rage.
Nor the envenom'd sting of Slander'* page ;
Nor loathsome Envy's peftilcntial breath,
Can tint his laurels, with the blall of death.
Still uncorroded by the rull of years,
His name fliall live commensurate with the spheres.
So the tall rock, high on the mountain's brow,
Securely ft:md<, nor lears the Jlorms below,
And while the winds the face of earth deform,
Laughs at the whirlwind, and derides the ltorm.
When we aflume the sober garb of age,
Our youth lhall emulate the godlike rage,
And fpndly listen to the historic song,
Nor think, for once, an old man's tale too long.
Then fhali new Hbiriers, Aug the CHIEFTAIN'S waijs.
And not a Woman's, but a Nation's cause;
Nor need th' affilbnce of the bright abodes,
Columbia's Heroes supersede his Gods.
EXTRACT
of a Letter form Pari/, to a gentleman in New-Haven,
dated Augttjl 30th, 1789.
TT is extremely gratifying, my dear Sir, to have
spent the lalt fix months in this country —
where, next to the American revolution,the great
est and rnoft wonderful scenes are unfolding. The
progress of truth and reason is beyond calcula
tion. We might have believed from theory,
that government would meliorate—that the peo
ple might discover in time that as laws are made
for them, they ought to be made by them—that
Kiugs ihould be but Executive Magistrates, and
therefore fubjedt to the laws. But when wecon
fider the flow and altnoft imperceptible progress
of such ideas from the days of Magna Cliarta to
the last revolution in England, their retrogade
motion from the time of the great Henry, to
Louis XVIIII. in France, and their dormant Hate
for many ages in all the reft of Europe, it is afton
iftiing that so many events of this nature Ihould
be crowded into fifteen years. It is biv. since the
American war that the faculty of thinking has
been by any means general in France. The ex
ample of America in her theoretical ideas ofli.
berty has certainly been a great thing for France.
But greater, if poflible, will be her example in
the developement of these ideas in her govern
ment. The Constitution of France, which is in a
good degree of forwardnefs, will be as nearly
likethe American, as is consistent with having an
hereditary Chief Magistrate. If they had not a
King on hand, they would not create one. They
will now preserve him with such powers as the
people choose to delegate to their Executive
Chief. And he will gladly accept of what they
may give him, acknowledging the source from
whence it flows, the jus divinum of his fellow ci
tizens.
The other nations of Europe have now an ex
ample nearer home—and they will soon follow
it. The gospel of civil liberty will run and be
glorified—nations are coming to its light, and
Kings to the brightness of its rising. It cannot
be ten years before Germany, Spain, and South
America will be free : How many other States
will precede, and how many follow them, cannot
now be known ; but all Europe must do one or
the other. One principal occasional cause of
these revolutions, is the immense national debts
accumulated by the expensive wars of theprefent
century. Spain finds a deficiency of eighty mil
lions. The Emperor's dominions are exhausted
by war and taxes. No Sovereign in Europe can
iinpofe a new tax, without the consent of the peo
ple, for France could not do it. Spain must as
semble her Cortes, or submit to a bankruptcy,
either of which is the direcft road, and the firft,
the beaten road, to a revolution. Aflemblingthe
Notables here, has done the fame thing.
SPRINGFIELD, December 9.
IsaiAh Thomas Esq. Printer at Worcefter,hrm
lately iflued proposals for printing a large fami
ly BIBLE.—This will be a great, expensive, but
trulyl andable & praiseworthy undertaking. The
abilities of this gentleman in his profeftioual ca
pacity are so generally known, that we cannot
admit a doubt of his success ill this important de
sign.
We learn from Dfcerfield, that on the 21ft ult.
the following accident happened there:—A gen
tleman belonging to New-Jersey, by the name of
Brightfton, returning home from a journey to
the northward, was unfortunately thro.wn from
his horse. His head firft meeting the ground, im
mediately deprived him of all sensation, and h<i
lay as it were breathless. Providentially Do<ftor
Cunningham of Hatfield rode up, according to
his conjecture about 20 minutes after the accident
rook place. He could not discover any visible
signs of life, but instantly bled him, and by iinart
frivftion, and the application of strong vinegar*
restored animation, and in about an hour put him
in a condition to renew his journey. What would
have been the confequenct of this gentleman's dis
aster, had he not received the seasonable aflift
ance he did, is uncertain ; but the warmelt thanks
are certainly due to the humane Dodtor for the
diligence with which he employed fuccefsful at
tempts for his reiteration.
THE GARDEN of the THUILLERIES.
r I "'HIS garden is the fineft, and molt frequent-
A ed walk in Paris. The parterres, the alleys,
the large basons of water, the statues of marble,
are allanfvverable to each other in their stile of
magnificence;
It was begun by order of Henry IV, in 1600, and
finifhed under Louis XIV, in 1660. It is 360 fa
thoms in length, and 68 broad , containing in the
whole 67 arpents of land.
There are seven entrances into this garden.—
The three principal alleys are 165 fathoms long;
and that in the middle is 1 5 fatnoms broad.
The great terras 011 the lide of the river, which
makes the principal ornament of the garden, ii
280 fathoms long, and 14 broad.
111 the whole garden are four fountains, two of
which have basons of a large circumference. On
the fide of the palace are six.statues, and two vases
of white marble- The statues are a hunter and
two huntrefles, a fawn, an Hamadriade, and the
goddess Flora.
R.ound the great bason of the parterre are four
groupes of marble figures: Thefirji represents
the rape of Orithia, or rather Time carrying off
Beauty ; the second is Ceres born away by Saturn,
under the figure of Time : the third, Lucretia stab
bing herfelf before Collatinui ; The fourth repre
sents JEneas, laden with his household gods, liia
father /Inchifes, and his foil Afcatiius.
In the semi-circle which forms the horse
there are four marble rivers, upon pedestals of the
fame—the Loire, the Seine, the Nile, and the Ty
ber. The two last were copied at Rome, from
antiques, that arc to be seen in the Capitol.
At the end of the garden, between the openings
of the liorfe Ihoe, there are two figures on horse
back, of a prodigious magnitude, raised upon rus
tic piers ; they represent Mercury, and Fame.
Within a few years several statues, cut by the
ablest mailers in the time of Termes, have been
placed in this garden.
PRODIGIOUS STATUE.
IN the place of Louis XIV, in Paris, is eredied
his equestrian statue in bronze. The King is re
present ed in the dress of a hero of antiquity, with
out saddle or spurs.
The statue and horse are twenty-two feet two
inches high. The whole was cast at once, by Bal
thafar Keller, of Zurich in Switzerland. The
designs were by Girardon. Fourscore thousand
weight of metal was used in this work, which
cost two hundred thousand crowns.
A trial was made by which it appeared that
twenty persons migjitfit round a table in the bel
ly of the horse.
The pedestal upon which this horse stands is
thirty feet high, twenty-four long, and thirteen
broad.
NEW-YORK, DECEMBER 16.
The stupendous monuments of antiquity which
excite the admiration of modern times, ought an
the fame time to fill our hearts with gratitude to
heaven, for amending the condition of mankind,
infuch manner,that a few haughty despots do'not
command the wealth of the world, and the labor
of millions of slaves, by which means only, such
aftonilhing works could have been eredted.
How much better is it to employ the wealth of
this world in forming institutions for promoting
ufeful knowledge, and leflening the infelicities
I of existence, than tofuffer human vanity to eredt
monuments of pride and ambition, which Itamp
indelible infamy 011 the degraded character of the
age in which they are founded.
-ARRIVALS.—NEW.YORK.
Monday Packet Telcmaque, Thotetier, Bordeaux, 75 days,
Schooner Sally, Furgufon. Si. Martins, 31 days.MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
L E T T E R„ XXII.
Amsterdam, October. 27, 1780.
SIR, '
QUESTIONS twenty-second and twenty-third.
. " General Monk repaired the King's govern
" jnent in England : Might not one American Cette
" ra l or anither be able, by discontent o>- corruption,
" to do the fame ? IV ould the army follow his orders
" on fiich an occasion ? Could one or more politicians,
■' through intrigues, undertake the fame with any
" hopes of Jucccfs, fbould even the army ajjifl him
" in such a cafe ?"
I have before observed, that no politicians, or
general officers, in America, have any such in
fluence. Neither the people nor the soldiers
would follow them. It was not attachment to
men, but to a cause, which firlt produced, and
supported the revolution : It was not attach
ment to officers, but to liberty, which made the
soldiers inlilt. Politicians in America can only
intrigue with the people : These are numerous,
andfo scattered, thatno ltatefman has any great
influence but in his own small circle. In courts
sometimes, gaining two or three individuals may
produce a revolution : No revolution in America
tan be accompliffied without gaining the majori
ty of the people ; and this not all the wealth of
Great Britain is able to do, at the expence of
their liberties.
Question twenty-four.—" The revolution mttft
" have made a great change in affairs, so that many
" people, though at present free of the enemy's incur
" /ions, have lojl their daily fubfjiencr. Have the
" occupations, which come injtead of their old ones,
" been fuffuient tofipply their wants ?"
All the difficulties which were ever apprehend
ed, of this fort are long since past. In 1774,
foin e were apprehensive that the filhermen,failors,
•and ffiipwrights would be idle : But some went
inco the army,fome into the navy, and some went
to agriculture ; and if there had been twice as
many, they would all have found employment.
The building of frigates and privateers has em
ployed all the carpenters. Manufactories, be.
fides, have been set up, of cannon, arms, pow
der, falt-petre, fait, flax and wool have been
raised in greater quantities, and coarse manufac
tures of cloth and linen been increased. In
ffiort, the greatest difficulty is, that there are not
hands enough. Agriculture alone, in that coun
try, would find employment enough for milli
ons, and privateering for thousands, more than
there are. I have the honor to be,
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
The ADDRESS of the MAYOR, RECORDER and
ALDERMEN of the Borough of NORFOLK,
To his Excellency THOMAS JEFFERSON, Esq.
SIR,
IT is with singular pleasure that we congratu
late you on your fafe arrival to your native
land, returning you our unfeigned thanks for
the many eminent fervicesyou have rendered the
trade of this State duringyour residence abroad.
We are happy in having the opportunity of mak
ing our personal acknowledgments to a character
to which we are so deeply indebted : And our
fervent wiffies are, that you may be as happy in
the important flation you are now called to by a
grateful country, as you have been fuccefsful in
your negociations.
Norfolk, (Virginia) 25th Nov. 1789.
THE REPLY.
To the worfhipful the MAYOR, RECORDER and
ALDERMEN of the Borough of NORFOLK.
GENTLEMEN,
ACCEPT my iuicere thanks for your very kind
congratulations 011 my return to my native
land. lam kappy too that circumstances have
led my arrival to a place which I hadfeen before,
indeed, in greater splendor, but which I now
fee rising, like a Phoenix out of itsafhes, to that
importance to which the laws of nature destine
it. Peculiarly favored by nature in situation and
climate, foftered by our special governmentand
protected by the general one, to which we have
so wifely confided our greater concerns, we have
every ground to hope the future welfare of your
city. That your particular happiness, Gentle
men, may be mingled inthegeneral ftreamofits
prosperity, is my sincere prayer. As for my mite
of service, it has /iot been worthy the noticeyou
so kindly take of it: That my country fliould be
served is the firft wish of my heart; I fliould be
doubly happy indeed,were I to render it a service.
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
Novertiber 25, 1789.
ANECDOTE.
the President of the United States, in
» v his lare tour,was at Lexington, viewing the
field where the firft blood was fhedin the late war ;
he with a degree of good humour, told his in
formant, and others that were present, that the
Britons complained to Dr. Franklin of the ill u
sage their troops met with at Lexington battle, by
the Yankies getting behind the stone walls, andfi
riTig at thera ; tlieDo<!lor replied, byalking them
whether there were not two fides to the wall.
LONDON.
THE Epilepsy, or Falling Sickness, being rec
koned in general, an incurable illftefs, a
! pliyiician of the firft eminence, who has been
! wirnefs to the convulsions of many poor creatures
; in our streets, liasrequelted us to publifli thefol
. lowing effectual remedy.
Take one drachm of fihe filings of true white
metal powder, or block tin powder, mix it with
a little conserve of oranges, or some sweet meat,
; give it to the patient the middle of the third day
before the full of the moon, and twelve hours
before the full, and also the middle of the third
day after the full of the moon. The fame me
thod is to be observed with refpetfi to the change
of that planet. Twelve doses thus given are ge
nerally fufftcient to effeifta cure. When the dif
eafeinvades, the fame dofeistobe given promis
cuously, which will have a remarkable effe<fl ;
but to obtaina complete cure, thefull and change
of the moon are to be observed.
As many people, of all ranks, are afflicfted with
this disorder, which exhibit such miserable (ymp
toms, it is consequently to be expecfted that they
will have recourle to so fiinple, so plain, and efR
-1 cacious a medicine, which is also afpecific in the
cure of the worms.
OF FRANCE—from Voltaire.
THE military afpecfl of Paris, is not, at this
time, more formidable than it was when
drawn forth by the faction of Cardinal de Retz,
on the arreil of Bouflel, and thedifperfon of the
other popular Magistrates, during Louis XlVth's
minority : And how that attempt of the people
was subdued, the following anecdote will explain :
The Parisians were formed in martial bodies,
and de Retz himfelf, had a corps, named the
Corinthian Regiment. Five hundred thousand
citizens were in arms, when the great Prince de
Conde marched to oppose thein with only 8000
men. The Parisians took the field, adorned with
feathers and ribbands. Their evolutions were
the jest of the diJciplined troops. They were
routed by the regulars ; and the regiment of
Corinth, having been beaten by a handful of
Co-nde's men, the defeat was called " The First
Efiflle to the Corinthians !"
PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
ABSTRACT of JOURNAL of the first SESSION
of the SENATE of the UNITED STATES.
A WEDNESDAY, Jut* i, J 789.
MESSAGE from the House of Representatives, by Mr. Beck
ley their Clerk ; who informed the Senate, that a commit
tee confiding of Mr. Partridge and Mr. White, was appointed on
the part of the Honfe, to join such committee as maybe appointed
on the part of the Senate, to examine the enrolled bill, entitled,
" An ast laving a duty on goods, wares and merchandizes im
ported into the United States," and to lay thefame before the Pre
sident ot the United States tor his approbation.
Whereupon Mr. Wingate was appointed on the part of the Se
nate ; and the f 101 l ft' of P.eprefentatives was notified accordingly.
The bill, entitled " An ast imposing duties on tonnage," was
carried to the House of Representatives as agreed to on the joth of
June.
A meflage from the House of Representatives, by Mr. Beckley
their Clerk; who informed the Senate that the House had receded
from their d.fagreement to the fourth, fifth, and sixth amendments
ol the Senate, to the bill, entitled, 11 An ast imposing duties on
tonnage." Adjourned
THURSDAY, July 2.
A mclTage from the House of Rcpiefentatives , byMr. Beckley
their Clerk : who brought up the enrolled bill, entitled, » An ast
tor laying a duty on goods, wares and merchandizes imported
into the United States," signed by the Speaker :
Also, a bill, entitled " An ast to establish the Trcafury Depart
ment ; which had palled the House of Representatives, for
currence of the Senate thereon.
The enrolled bill was signed by the Vice President and deli
vered to the chairman of the committee, who laid it before the
President ot the United States for his approbation. Adjourned
MONDAY, Jin.* 6.
The bill, entitled, "An ast to cftablilh the Trcafury Depart
ment," was read a firft time and Monday next was affined for a
lecond reading. °
A bill, entitled, " An ast to establish an Executive Department
to be denominated the Department of War,"was read a firft time,
ana Fnday next was afligncd for a second reading.
A pelage from the House of Representatives, by Mr. Beckley
their Clerk ; who informed the Senate, that the President of the
Lnitcd States had affixed his signature to a bill, entitled, " An ast
tor laying a duty on goods, wares and merchandizes imported into
fern t" e States j" and had returned it to the House of Reprc-
The relolveof the House of Representatives, providing, that a
copy ot the Constitution of the United States be prefixed to the
publication of the acts of the present feffionof Congress, was read ■
Whereupon, Rcfolved, That the Senate do concur.
Adjourned.
MONDAY, JULY 13.
Mr. Butler, in Behalf of the committee appointed on the i 7 thof
June, 10 bring forward a system tor the regulation of the trade and
mtercourfe between the United States and the territory of other
powers in North-America and the Weft-Indies, so far as to place
the fame upon a more beneficial and permanent footing," report
ed ; and the report was ordered to lie for consideration
. _ WEDNESDAY, July 15.
Clerk— fc ° f Rc P rcfcnutives > *>y Mr. Beckley,
Mr. President,
The House of Representatives have pasTed a bill, entitled « An
ast to regulate tne collection of the duties imposed by law on the
tonnage of ships or vefiels,and on goods, wares and merchandizes
imported into the United States," to which they request the con
currence ot the Senate. Adjourned.
nr J FRIDAY, JULY 17.
Resumed the second reading of the bill, entitled, «An ast or
Ex . CCUt ! v ( ? D «P"tment to be denominated t ie De
partment of Foreign Affairsand agreed line ill loan n»,. TV,,
words" Congress of the United States," and insert, " Senatf and
SScmbTed "Tnd'T' of A — in Co „
On m . ti! !" ned '"-morrow for a third reading
On motion. That on the final question upon a bill nr resolve
. > member lhall hsvca righ tto enter his protest or di(lent on the
Journal, with rcafons in support of such dilTent, pr<widcd rt. f
,be offered within two days after the determination on f„,i
Iqueftion—Paffed in the negative. lucl '
The erigroffcd" Bill toeftaMiffcthe Judicial Courts ofthel'm. »
'States," was read, and upon the question, " Shall the bill J
; The yeas and nays being requ ircd by one fifth of the Senator! n
sent, the determination was as follows :
YEAS. Mr. Batten, Mr. Carroll, Mr. Dalton, Mr. EHf«,„.l
Mr. Elmer, Mr. Few, Mr. Gunn, Mr. Henry, Mr lohnfon M
Izard, Mr. Morris, Mr. Patterfon, Mr. Read, Mr. St/one '
NAYS. Mr. Butler, Mr. Grayfon, Mr. Laiitdof, Mr r«
Mr. Maclay, Mr. Wmgate, 6 ' '
So the bill patted, ~and the Secretary was direaed to carrvth
fame to theHoufcof Representatives for concurrence \& nm
SATURDAY, July ,8. J d '
Agreeably to the order of the day proceeded to a third readir
of the bill entitled " Ail ast for eftablifhingan Executive
mentto be denominated the Department of Foreign Affairs '• ' *
Ordered, That on taking the yeas and nays, where the Vice-
President is called upon to vote, the Secretary propofeto himth*
queltion.
Oil motion to strike out of the bill these words—Page o,i r,„
»s c,l i "by 'he President of the United States," and the yea's and
nays being required thereupon by one fifthoT the Senators present
: the determination wis as follows :
YEAS. Mr. Few, Mr. Grayfon, Mr. Gunn, Mr. Johnson Mr
Izaid, Mr. Langdon, Mr. Lee, Mr. Maclay, Mr. Winkle ' '
NAYS. Mr. Baflett, Mt. Carroll, Mr. Dalton, Mr Elmer
Mr. Henry, Mr. Morris, Mr. Patterfon, Mr. Read, Mr] Strons:'
the Vice PreSdent. "
So it palled in the negative, and the clause propofedto be (truck
out was retained.
On motion to strike out these words, line 4th, " Such duties is
shall from time to time be enjoined on or entrusted to him, by the
President of the United States, agreeable to the Conflitutio'n, rela
tive to correfpondeicr J, commifiions or inftru&ions toor with pub
lie Mimflers orCorrfuls from the United States, ortonegnciations
with public Mimflers from foreign States or Princes, or°omemo
rials, or other applications, from foreign public Ministers, or ci
ther foreigners, or to such other matters refpeftingforeign affairs
as the President of the United States shall assign to thefaid depart-'
ment: And furthermore that the said principal officer shall con
duct the business of said department, in such manner as the Pre
sident of the United States shall, from time to time, order or in
ftrufi." And insert in lieu thereof these words, " The duties of
his office with integrity, ability, and diligence"—Passed in the
negative. (To be continued.)
ADVERTISEMENT.
EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE OHIO COMPANY.
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Agents, it is very much
for the intercft of the proprietors at large, that all she
lands of the purchase should be divided and allotted as immedi
ately as may be—And in order to accommodate them generally,
by the option of claflingas they may think proper, and driviti
their rights or (hares (where they'may possess more than one
either together in contiguity, or by detaching and annexing »k
to diftinft clafTesor ditiftons (at their own elcftion) to give tKerj
the greaterchanc far variety in foil and fituation—lt isu -
moully refolved,That as foonas the exploring committee fha;
appropriated the lands for donation fettlemenu,in quantity! ?
ent for all the proprietors,Wikthrop Sar c ent,JosephC i
man, and Retu rnJ. Me i cs, Esquires, who are herebyap f
cd a committee for that purpofc,{hail immediate / make. a
a largo fcale,t complete map or plan of the whole purchase fro ie
best information,which they may be then able to obtain,exp" tig
all the lands of the eight acre, three acre, city lots and commons,
one hundred a»d sixty acre, and donation lots, the relerv «.ots
of Congress, school lots, and lots appropriated for religic • ?ur
pofes—alfo, the two townlhips given by Congress for an u i*erfi
ty,and the towns or lituations for towns to be reserved byte com
pany for a future allotment.—That, all the residuary lap/, ihall
be, by them, the said committee of three, divided and numbered
upon paper, into forty equal grand divisions of twenty-five lharei
each, as like in quality as may be: That each grand div ,r nn be
divided into five sub-divisions of five shares cach, and 'b
divifion into fe&ions of single (bares t —That as fooa a* oap
or plan is completed, the agents will form or class their lu
ers (who (ball not previously class themselves) by fe&ioito '
(hares, into sub-divisions of five, and grand divisions of
five, and immediately proceed to drawing by lot for said kr Is:
by grand divisions, sub-divisions and fe&ions : Thai »
draughts of sub-divisions (into fe&ions) which may be made :>f
proprietors,holding four,three, or two and single £bares,it i> «i. be
the usage for the greatest proprietor, or hoider of the e •
number of (hares, to take his lands in contiguity, by lot, uc m
the southern or northern part of the sub-division, where they It. -11
be numbered from north to south, and in the western or dit rtl
(by lot also) where they may be numbered from weft toeaft t
where sub-divisions maybe made upof two proprietors o? tw»>
(hares each, and one ot one (hare, the two greatest p'T > c "
tors (hall receive their fe£lions, by lot, either in the fou l '• of
western part of the sub-division. Refolved> Th3t thebefos- 3-
med committee, be dire&ed to prepare the names and nun; -
and make all the necefTary arrangements for the intended dra
That previous to the drawing for this ultimate grand div :
lands, there (hall be returns of the proprietors, as they n t>-
classed by the agents (or other wife) lodged in the Secretary'- -Si
and it is recommended in all cases to consult the inclinatio > wi
mterefts of tre proprietors in the order of clafling.
Rejolved, That the agents will give public notice of the titr an®
place of drawing, and that there be twoperfonsno \v?.ys if; rf »*
ed in the draughts, who (hall be sworn to the faithfully
out the names and numbers from the boxes, and who alone shall
be employed in this business for the draught of grand divisions,
sub-divisions, and fe&ions.
Resolved, That the Secretary cause the foregoing resolutions t#
be published in the newfpapcrs of New-York, and the
England States ; to the end that the proprietors at large may have
the option of clafling themselves as they may think proper: An
they are hereby requested so to do, and to express themselves
upon thisJubjea, either to their fefpeftive agents, or by infoima
tion in writing addressed to, and to be lodged with the Secretary
at his office in the city of Marietta,previous to the firftMondayo
March, 1790 —Upon which day it is expe&ed the division v»'
take place. w I NTHROP SARGENT.
Secietary to the Ohio Comfity*
Marietta, 3d November, 1789. _
ADVERTISEMENT. ,
77/£ Gazette of the United States circulates in cvtri pM J
the Union—being honored by subscribers in Georgia, South ffl<* 0
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania,
New-York, Confie&icut, Rhode-1 (land, MdJTachufctts, New-HanfJ »
DiJlrid of Maine, Canada, Europe, ana Wejl Indies.
tensive circulation renders it a proper vehicle for Adv ERT , IS£NI / E^/ iJ r
of a general, commercial and governmental import: —ify \ d h t r
desire and advice, therefore, oj a number of its patrons, thufF .
will be open for the reception of advertisements of the above
which as they will convey intelligence of an interejling e '
tor hopes their ivfertion will meet the approbation of ™ s J rl * lt
general. Should the number at any time amount to more than as 6
the Gazette, they will be given in a Supplement.
N T ew-York, Nov. 28, 1789. -
Publiflied by JOHN FENNO, No. 9,
Lan e, near tJmi e- \U r hi, Ne i_3 "'*