[No. LXVll.j
rHE TABLE T. No. LXVII.
/
«* Triflers not e'en in triflei can excell;"
THERE is no better way to eltimate the un
derftandlng of a man, than by hearing
him converse on what lie has discovered in his
travels. Many men, who adventure abroad, ne
ver get rid of their prejudices ; and whatever
falls within their notice, i 9 viewed under such an
eye of prepofl'eSlidn, that it eludes a fair exami
nation. A traveller of this call may add to the
number of his ideas, but he does not diminish his
errors, nor really add to his flock of truth. It
had been better for him, upon the whole, to have
tarried at home ; for he would then have spent
left money, and acquired fewer habits of vexing
his friends by his pertneft, or deluding them by
hismiftakes. If he attempts ro relate any inci
dent, he generally forgets the most material cir
cuwftances, and always gives it a falfe coloring,
or draws from it wrong inferences. We can,
however, bear with the mere errors that are im
posed on us by a traveller ; because, as we have
not the power of detecting the fallacy, we feel
no dilpofition to complain of the deception.
But there is a description of travellers whofc
conversation soon becomes irksome, if not intol
erable. I allude to tliofe frivolous characters,
whose minds are only occupied upon trifles ; and
who, wherever They go, or whatever they fee, car
never acquire or communicate theleaft degree oi
ufeful information. The habitual levity of de
portment, these triflers discover, soon renders
their mirth insipid, and their observations iiuinte
refting. There is no force of talents to invigorate
their remarks. If they afFed: tofhewwit, noper
fon perceives the edge of it ; and if they relate
anecdotes, it is impofiible to find the pith of theii
Story. In Short, a man of this trifling turn mufl
continue of that character, whether he travels 01
Stays at home. He can never arrive at excellence
even in tliofe habits, which peculiarly belong ta
him. Thetruth is, the more expert any one js,
in displaying frivolous aecomplilhments, thelefs
excellent does he appear. We can never aflo
ciate ahy idfcas of merit with qualifications that
produce no advantage, and indicate no capacity.
However ostentatious a man maybe, if he has not
folic! attainments, he is soon penetrated, and his
companions determine at once, that he does not
trifieforthe fake of being pleasant, but because
he does not know how to be serious, and can ne
ver be wife. Men of good sense and gravity some
times relax their uluai tone of demeanor, andean
ainufe themselves with trifles without being con
temptible. It can be perceived that the part they
have taken, is aflumed only for thcmoiiient. But
noted triflers so flagrantly deviate from dignity
of manners, that 110 person will mistrust, they act
from a character they have taken up, but from
one, they cannot lay aside.
My young acquaintance Garrulus has late
ly returned from his education and his travels.
His friends imagine he has made great improve
ments ; but he is much more indebted to their
partiality than ro his own acquirements, for the
eftiir>ation in which he is viewed. It was easily
supposed that so pert a boy mutt, if well-educated,
make a smart man. He early discovered Symptoms
of vanity, and these were mistaken for indica
tions of genius. Full offlattering hopes, his par
ents conceived the idea, that he mult be sent tc
Europe for an education. He has completed it
and once more resides in his native country, i
'wiil not pretend to fay, what he would havebeen
3iad he coMinucd at home ; but he has, by 110
means, loft his pertnefs or his vanity, by going
abroad. Garßulus well remembers the tium
hers of years be has confiuned atfchools andtfni
■verfities, and has not yet forgot the names ofthe
authors he was compelled to read. It diverts
children and servants to hear him recount the tricks
and frolics of li*s academical life ; aYid 1 believe
thisisthe only am n feme lit, his education is cal
culated to aflrbrd. The reader w ill expert to be
entertained with ail account oft Tie travels of this
afpiringyouth. But here I find myfelf at a loi's
how to gratify such an expectation. Though I
am frequently in company with him; I have yet to
learn, whether he has gained one uses ul idea,from
traveling two years throngh the most celebrated
countries in Europe. He has often boasted to 111 c,
tha£ ' ,e dined with fixyonngnoblemen, at an ho
tel in France ; complained that he found bad inns
in Italy ; and declared that he eat failed cabbage
111 Germany. But he fee 111s to dwell with peculiar
delight in relating how rapidly the stages drive
through England, and howcomplaifantly he was
treated athoufes of entertainment. He mentions
fucli cireumftances witlian air of triumph,becaufe
he alledges that in these respeCts, the English are,
beyond companion, superior to his own country
men. Nothingfills liim with more rapture, than
to bobble to point out any particular, in which
WEDNESDAY, December. 2, 1739.
the Americans have not arrived at equal perfec
tion with the Europeans. It happens fortunately
for us, that Cj.arrui.us has extended his obser
vations to nothing, of so much importance in it
felf, as to render it a point worth contending,
in which country it holds a pre-eminence.
These trifling characters, however, find easy
admillion into the belt circles of company, the
world affords. This may seem the more extraor
dinary, as a person of thisftamp so soon becomes
tedious in private conversation, where only a so
cial interview is intended; We can easily find a
folutiom to this diiliculty. A talkative, imperti
nent bo dy way be called a bon companion by all
men, th ough iio man views him with any refpedt
or friend/hip. There is a convenience in having
iuch an aflbciate. We feel free, and unembar
rafled in his presence, can learn front him the
news and fafhions of'the day, and fend meflages
by him to any part of the town. B«t there is yet
a greater advantage, one findsin.fuch an acquain
tance : It is well known, that in mixed compan
ies, few people have a turn for general conversa
tion ; and uulefs some person is present, who has
agood {hare of impudent pra,ttle, there will be
too much dullness and reserve. Every modest
man of the party feels relieved, when any of his
companions will take his {hare of the conversa
tion. In this way, men of bold, afluming man
ners, how ever ignorant they may be,endear them
-I'clves, as companions, to all denominations of
society. I have observed that in rnoft clubs or
parties, fenfiblc men are fond of admitting fonie
persons 'of levity,merely tomakediverfion for the
reft oftlie company.
It is tobe regretted that some worthy youth are
beguile d into an opinion that impudence is de-
Arable, because it meets with attention. They
draw this conclufion.from the notice thatis taken
of fnch characters as I have been describing.—
Could ;it bedifcerned, from what motives, men of
a forward, ostentatious deportment are received
info company ; or cotild it be known in what light
they are generally estimated, they would no lon
ger be regarded as objedls of envy, or as patterns
for imitation. Every young manfhould conclude
with refpecft to liimfelf ; that, if his talents and
accomplifhinents are not so coufpicuous as to at
tract esteem and admiration tinfolicited, he can
never acquire any real influence of character by
pertnefs and felf importance. It is true he may
gain a uumerous acquaintance, but he will find
few friends : People wijl entertain him kindly ;
but they will place in him no confidence ; they
will trust him with no property. Upon the whole,
his life will be neither honorable to liimfelf, 1101
lerviceable to society. x
THE OBSERVER. No. VII.
The fiufltiating value of Paper in circulation oppres
sive to the poor.
E' VERY public measure, wliich fubjccls needy
i citizens to the imposition of the rich, is repug
nant tojuftice. Great numbers of the rich are alio
generous tothepoor, but it is not the character of
all to whom a wife Providence hath distributed
wealth. One rtutn of great opulence and a hard
heart h'ath power to oppress a whole vicinity of
needy people. Among the present means of oppref
fronin the United StateS, none is greater tliana cir
culating paper of unsteady and deceitful value;
and yet there are thole who with a confident face
will nflerr,' that the measures which lead to this
aredefigned as an easement to the necessitous mem
bers of society. Those who are poor and in back
ward circtini fiances unwarily are taken by the fait
pretences--they are told and believe that it is sot
their benefit, and bless the measures which sap the
vigor of their industry. The wealthy can make
their choice between several mediums in circula
tion, and if there be a bad kind of money, we
{hall always find it in the hands of those who have
least policy and riches : thus the indigent lie un
der a double disadvantage, the quantity of their
money is small, and it is of the Worst kind, not
being in demand to procure the neceflaries of
life. It is a maxim forever true that the worst
kind of circulating rttoney will in the end fall in
to the hands of those who are least able to bear
a loss. Those States which have partially funded
their debts pay the inrereft in paper certificates
or indents, which pnfs into circulation for the pay
ment of taxes—these certificates are ifl'ued as an
equivalent for gold and silver coin, and in every
riew or the fadl they are a depreciated paper mo
ney, of very different value at several times of
the year and in different diftritfis—they may be
purchased in large sums through uioft of the States
from one hundred to one hundred and fifty per
cent, discount. Taxes iflne by authority on the
fnppofition that it it is their real value, and it is
their real value to those who can purchase at the
right time of sale-; it is also their value to a greater
rFubliflied on JVedntfday and Saturday .j
part of the public creditors, whose diftrefled situ
ation obliges tliem to fell on any terms, the firll
moment they can obtain the interelfc from the pub
lic. Still it is fact that one half the taxable inha
bitants purchase them nearly at par with gold and
silver. The poor man and those of little enter
prife,l>ut industrious, delay purchasing untilfhejr
are driven by the hour of payment, and then make
the belt bargain they can, either with some neigh
bor, or public officer, prepared for the btnev'o/:nl
purpose of accommodating all such as could not
purchase in time for themielves. In this way pro
vision is made for this poor, and those whose cir
cumltances are decaying ; some of tliefe make pay
ment in hard labor, and some by promifory bonds,
induced by a snort credit they fall into the snare
and are effectually ruined.
Take the following fart as proof of my afTertion.
In Marcii, I 787, one hundred pounds fperfe was
lent to B jfton to purchase State paper, then re
ceivable 111 taxes, which paper was put into the
hands of a person in one of the weflern counties
of Maftachufetts, who returned the principal in
November of the fame year, with a net profit to
the owner of the hundred pounds, offixty pounds
fix /hillings and one penny. It is to be remember
ed this agent charged very high for his service and
expence3, so that it is certain, those who paid the
taxes, paid atleaft forty shillings for every twenty
which the State received. These were the very
people, who a little before had been scourged into
obedience by a'military force. For infurgertcy
they wfere criminal, and government was right to
check their phrenzy by the molt coercive means ;
but to palliate dieir conduct which we wish to bury
in oblivion let it be remembered that oppression
will sometimes make wife men mad. It is but a
few articles the pool planter has for sale, and
these perhaps not in demand at the rime neceflity
objiges him to fell, so that he can exchange them
only for the worst kind of circulating money, and
thAt at its highest price. The fame neceflity obliges
him to fell at the lowest price, and between buy
ing and felling, he makes a loss of one third. I
could mention athoufand wayx & depre
ciated circulating medium is opprefiive to man
kind, but especially to such as have small proper
ty ; and nature admits not of a poflibility of reme
dying the evil,but by wholly removing the cause.
No fac r ts can be more fully proved than those I
have mentioned, but there is foftrongapropenfity
in some people to have n cheap kind of money,
that tliev will think die writer hath mischievous
schemes in his brains, and that everything is en
dangered, until the parish Priest, or town peda
gogue, or the incendiary of the neighborhood,
foine of whom may chance to remember a phrafc
of school Latin, lliall have founded the alarm.
With wasps and flics the Observer promises great
patience, and will only drive them gently, 110 c
aiming at their life, for it is the nature of those
infects to buzz round the scent of liojiey, though
they can make none thcmfelves ; but ftiould any of
the higher da's of peculators, who have grown rich
on spoil, under the appearance of much honesty
and concern, unwisely throw themselves in his
way, he pledges himfelf to disclose things concer
ning thein, which the heart of the public hath not
conceivcd. The old man honest, he
made payment in the current money of the mer
chant, it is the money of the merchant which the
poor ought to receive, and 110 other kind of circu
lating medium will do justice in the community.
Whether this money be gold, silver or paper, it is
a matter of littleconfequence, for a fixed value and
general demand constitutes its worth. At present
11 is not poffiblefor the State governments to give
this ralueto their certificates or indents ,- but the
United States, if the whole debt could be brought
into one fund might easily effedl it by a connexion,
with the great mercantile banks within the Em
pire. Bank money is the money of the
and the whole commercial influence of the coun
try will preserve its value. Suppose the sums of a
rich and poor man's taxes to be apportioned accor
ding to their real wealth and ability ; the rich man
by purchasing the depreciated medium in proper
time and a small price, makes art easy payment;
the poor man purchasing at almost double price,
finds the demand intolerable ; and if to this there
be added fees for travel, and others which have no
legal name, he finks in ruin, These, ye poor and
embarrailed citizens, are the blessing of a cheap
paper money, for which too many of yoil have
been advocates. [,American Mercury.]
HERALDRY.
A SANGUINE frenchman had so high an o
pinion of the pleasures to be enjoyed in the
study of Heraldry, that be used to lament, as we
are informed by Men age, the hard cafe of our
forefather Adam, who could not polfibly ajnnfe
himfelf by investigating that fcietice, nor that of
genealogy.EUROPE.
- T O C H O L M, Sept. 15.
rj 1 H K I ast post from Finland brings advice, that
A Brigadier Stedinck has had another engage
ment near Nyflat, in which the Swedes were con
querors : The particulars of this affair are notyet
received.
BRUSSELS, Sept. 25.
General Alton having, by the Emperor's order,
presented a Golden Medal to two of the Dragoons
who leftrained the citizens of Tirlemont oil the
day ol the riot there, they were both found the
day alter with their throats cut. The comman
der iii Chief having ordered Major Vogles to make
enquiries concerning it, and the Major having
- - imprudently mentioned that order, his body was
loine days after found in the barracks cut in a
thoul'and pieces. Striift fearph is making after the
afliiflins.
VIENNA, October 6.
His Majelty the Emperor has been pleased to
raifc the Prince et Save Cobourg to the rank of
Field Marshal, in recompence for the lignal ser
vices he has rendered his country, and particular
ly in the late victory over the army of the Grand
Vizir, on the 22d of September.
Yesterday evening another courier arrived here
from the Prince de Cobourg, with the important
news, that he had again attacked and beaten the
Grand Vizir, and driven him back as far as the
Danube ; that 3000 Turks were left dead on the
field ; that our troops took 17 pieces of cannon,
300 loaded camels, 400 buffaloes, 2000 oxen, 5000
loaded waggons, 70,000 tents, with the whole of
the Grand Vizir's treasure and equipage ; and that
the booty was altogether immense. The Courier
brought afuperb tent, and a number of coftlyfa
bresand Turkish knives with him, which his Ma
jesty ordered to be deposited in the Arsenal. Ba
ron Kiefemayer, who came as courier on this oc
casion, alio brought apairof Turkifhcolours with
him, which he took from the enemy with his owu
hands.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, Sett. 26.
The National Aflembly having considered the
urgency of circum fiances, and read the report of
the Committee of Finance, accepts confidential
ly the plan proposed by thefirfl Minister of State.
Such was the decree 011 the Memorial of Monf.
Neckar, after a debate which lasted from nine in
the morning till half anhour past seven in the e
vening.
The Marquis de Montesquieu opened the de
bate by reading the plan of Adminiftratiori drawn
up by the Committee of Finance, in which were
proposed the following reductions:
Livres
The houfeliold of the King Queen and
Princes, 8,000,000
Foreign Department, 8,300,000
War ditto, . 8,900,000
Marine ditto, 2,000,000
Finance, do. x,000,000
Pensions, besides the reductions already
made, 6,000,000
Intendants and Delegates 1,800,000
Registers and Farmers General 2,600,000
Mint, 1,700,000
Premiums and encouragements to trade, 600,000
The Royal Gardens, 36,000
Library, 62,000
Stud (to be fupprefled) 800,000
Contingencies, 2,500,000
Fund reserved for Lotteries to be fup
prefled, x 73,000
Plantation of Forests, 817,000
Clergy,
2,502,000
Charities, 5,511,000
Livres 53,301,000
It next proposed to eftablifhtwo public banks,
one at the dii'pofal of the Executive power, with
*n annual receipt of 205 millions of livres, the a
mount of the National expenditure after the a -
bove reductions; the other, with an inalienable
revenue of 27? millions charged with the interest
of the National debt, and the expences of the pro
vinces, the former of which was ellimated at 240
millions, and the latter at 29.
Amotion was made to carryall the plate of the
churches to the mint, for the benefit of the public.
The Archbifliop of Paris immediateiy said, that
the Clergy, who had often succoured the State
in times of dish ess, were ltill ready to make the
greatest facrifices for the good of their country ;
and that they willingly give up all the Church
plate, only reserving as inuch as was neceflary for
diviue worlhip.
This patriotic proposal was received with gene
ral applause, but neceflarily gave place tothe main
quefiion.
M. de Mirabeati proposed an unqualified aflent
to the Minister's plan. As it was too extensive to
be difcufled in a short time, it was absolutely ne
cefiary to confide in the vvifdom of its author. If
it should fail, all Europe would exculpate the Na
tional Aflembly and the blame would fall on M.
Neckar —If it should succeed, the merit and the
honor would be exclusively his.
This motion was carried, as stated above, by
405 voices, against 127.
In the evening, the decree refpcting the reve
nue was carrried, as drawn up by M. Anfon, with
foine amendments.
September 29.
A letter was read from the Jews, many of"whom
had been driven from Alsace into Switzerland,
and the President was directed to write to the mu
nicipality of Stralbourg, in the name of" the Af
fenibly, recommending them to the protection of
the Executive Power, as equally entitled to the
benefit of the law, with the relt of his Majesty's
fubjeifts.
PARIS, o<a. 14.
TO MORROW will be the last day of the Na
tional Allembly's fitting at Versailles ; they
are then to adjourn till Monday, when they will
meet in the great Hall of the Archbi/hop's Palace
in Paris, and continue their meeting there until
the new Hall in the Palace of" the TliuilJeries is
got ready.
The Aflembly will not in future have occasion
for so large a space, as near 300 Members are al
ready decamped, and many more only waiting an
opportunity to do the fame.
We have reason to believe that the majority
of the Members of the Aflembly were extremely
averfc to go to Paris, fearing their lives to be in
danger. But the repeated invitations of the Pa
risians, who would not be ealy them, at
length determined their removal, though not be
foie the Aflembly had received a formal Deputa
ti°n from the Commons of Paris, who engaged
to anlvver for the perfoual feccirity ofevery Mem
ber.
1 he capital is again tolerably quiet, and things
goon nsufual—The mob seems perfectly content
ed with the imprisonment of the Royal Family,
whose escape was so much theobjecft of their ap.
preheniions. Their Majeftieshad another levee
of the Foreign Ministers on Wednesday last, but
the King spoke but little, and looked desponding
and inelancholly. The Court was but thinly at
tended, and had much the appearance of a dumb
lhew.
1 he inoft particular circumstance which en
gages the public attention at the present moment
is the charge alledged by M.de Mirabeau, in the
National Aflembly against the Count deSt. Prielt
Minilter of State, with the answer of M. de St'
Prielt: to the charge.
This affair has made a great noise in the city
tor lome days pall, and the popular cry was of
courle considerably to the disadvantage of the
Mmifter, who accordingly has thought proper to
refute it in the most unequivocal terms, before
that the accusation was brought to the proof.
M. deSt. Priest's letter is addrefled to the Pre
sident of the Committee of the National Aflem
bly, to whom the charge was referred for inves
tigation. It is rather too long for an entire tran
"ation, but we fliall give all the material points
of it : r
Pre^ent the Comm ' tte ' of Enquiry.
I UNDERSTAND that the National Aflembly
has received a denunciation from the Count de
Mirabeau, which is exprefled in the following
terms : °
" A Minister, called the Count de St. Pi ieft,
laid on Monday last to the phalanx of women \vlio
demanded bread of him,—When you had but one
xin S> you had bread in plenty—Now you have
twelve hundred, —Go andafk it of them."
I think it my duty, Sir, not to wait for your
refearcbes, but to declare to you positively on my
honor, that the fa# alledged by M. de Mirabca'u
is maliciously invented ; nor have I furnifhed the
jnghtelt pretext for the aflertion. M. de Mira
beau does not fay he heard me, and I am willing
to believe that he has been deceived. I declare
011 my honor, that I only spoke to a few women
who entered dans I'xiLde BeuJ, (the King having
oideredme to gothei-eand hear their complaints,
and answer to them.) I believe there were an
hundred witnefles who heard my discourse, and
I doubt much whether one of them will affirm he
heaid me mention a single word about the Na
tional Aflembly.
To the complaints of these five or fix women,
for there were no more, I answered that the King
had done every thing in his power to procure grain
for the Kingdom and the Capital , that grain had
been brought from all parts of the world ; that
in short the care provisioning Paris had been
fov two months past under the management of the
city, to which the King and his Ministers, had
united all their endeavors. I do not recoiled:
that the conversation turned upon any other fub
jei^—besides is it pollible tocall fiveorfix women
a phalanx.
\V ithout having the honor of being known to
M.de Mirabeau,or having spoken to him in mylife,
I ei thelefs hoped he would not have given ear
to so trivial a circumstance on such flight authori
ty, and only told by persons who a few days since
willied to excite the people against the National
Aflembly : I hope likewise my general conduct
will place me above such an imputation. I have
palled many years in the service of my country
and have labored for its Welfare a-id „i
Prince de Poix and the Duke tie ' Tli =
among the perrons who heard inelW
offer ro prove an alibi to every other L!v J"? 1
with these women, than what 1 have in?,?' "
Ido not dispute.M. de Mirabeau's tlone(l '
eloqirence, bat I do not believe he is a hi?' 5
zen th; ui I am. a bettcr citi
I have the honor to be & c
Paris, Oil. C °»"" l =S;.P i ;, Esr .
It is neednefs for us to add that this anfir, •
found perfectly fatisfcdtory to everyone £'?
who are not inclined to believe the truth. •
LONDON, September 24
Th, j, , h , a{ , r SwMi ■
g ""'
On the 14th inft. at ten in the morning t
Ruffian fleet of gallics, under the Prince of'ji
fau and two other Admirals, in two divif wns ~
tempted tofurround our fleet, by attacking
both fides with nearly a double superior ftrce
I he a<ftion lasted with great bravery until ninei-i
the evening, when ourfieetgotinto Swartholm
1. tie damaged, that they will be at sea in two days
We loft one large galley and one toroma (a final'
ler kind) both which ran aground, and the R U |
fians took another. Our frigate Trolle, alf o <, 0 t
aground with another toroma, the latter of which
was blown up by her commander. The Ruffi™
officers taken and brought in prisoners, repoit
that the attack was made by their whole fleeta
avowedly totally to annihilate ours, but which
by the bravery of our officers and learaen they
have not been able to injure materially. '
Oct . 24. On Sunday, the celebrated Mole, Do.
gazon, Dazinceurt and Fleury, performers at the
French Theatre, or Comedie Francois, presented
theinfelves at the bar of the National Afleinblv,
and in the name of themselves and other perform
ers of that Theatre, made an offer of twenty-three
thou/and livres, to be paid into the Royal Trea
luryonthe twenty-fourth of January next. The
President thanked them in the name of the Aliem
bly, accepted their offer, and did them the figna!
honor to invite them within the bar, where the*
staid until the Aflembly adjourned,
His Majesty in Conncil was this day pleased to
order that the Parliament which Hands prorogued
to Thursday the 29th of this instant, October,
should be further prorogued to Thursday the 10th
day of December next.
His Majesty in Council was this day pleased to
declare the Right Hon. John Earl of Weftmare
land Lieutenant General and General Governor
of his Majesty's Kingdom in Ireland.
Many persons who have travelled in France,
and have never observed any other than white
cockades worn by the military, are at a loss to
know the reason why, on a recent occasion, the
soldiers aflumed black cockades to teftify theirre
turning loyalty. The reason is, black cockades
are properly the cockades of the King—as such
they were often worn, as old officers will remem
ber, in the time of Marshal Saxe.
Although neither the Madrid Gazette, norany
other periodical prints appearing in Spain, take
the least notice of the revolution in France, norits
conferences ; nevertheless, there are some very
interesting pamphlets in circulation, translated
into Spanish, concerning these great events, and
which are read with avidity and entliufiafmintlut
country.
The Emperor (on his firft return to Vienna,
employed for an hour forthree fucceffivedays, ia
offering up public thanksgivings for his recovery,
and prayers for theprofperity of the Empire. His
Majesty knelt 111 the inidft of the people, at the
church of St. Stephen's and was remarkably fer
vent and devout the whole time.
THE BRABANTIAN TERRITORIES.
The celebrated Vandernoodt, the Dr. Frank
lin o'f Brabant, has been near aflaffination ! —Four
desperadoes, from Vienna, lately went to Breda
on this detestable expedition—and one of them
011 entering Vandernoodt'sprefence fired a pistol
at him, which happily misled hiin. The miscre
ants escaped, though closely pursued.
A like attempt has been made 011 M. de Marino',
at his feat near Breda—He had retired to this
place ever since the senior Counsellors, to which
body he belonged, were fupprefled. He was in
his garden, when a Marechauffee of Auftrianßra
bant came suddenly behind him, seized a ipafl e >
andftruck him on the head.—He was refcueil y
his gardeners from the violence, and the
sent to prison to take his trial.
Vandernoodt has long been obnoxious to tie
Emperor—His manly and spirited writings lij
fuccefsfully exposed that left handed Machine
Linguet, and alio inspired the people of Bra an
with the principles they poflefled when the LJutc
Republic was formed.
ACTS OF CELIBACY REPEALED. .
Among the reforms going forward in the
peror's dominions, the approaching abolin^ 1 '
celibacy among the Clergy makes no incon 1
able noise on the Continent. „ • -
On some dignified Ecclesiastics remon ra
with the Emperor on this repeal, bis Maje 7wered them rather neatly : " Gentlemen, is it
then that you think the celibacy of the Clergy is
more advantageous to population than their mar
riages ?"—The ecclefiaitics flirugged up their
Jhoulders, and complimented the Emperor on his
facetious raillery.
The Carron Manufactory in Scotland, is the
greatest perhaps of the kind known in the world
-Its weekly confuniption of coals amounts to
n,oootons, at 4s. pr. ton ; and the consumption
of each day is equal to that of the city of Edinburg,
durifig a whole week; As many coals are there
conluined in the Catron foundaries, as would
fufttce to supply a city of 700,000 inhabitants.—
A thousand workmen are duly employed in this
manufactory, whose wages amount to 7001. per
week, or 39,4001. pr. annum.
On Thursday last at Newmarket the Duke of
gueenlbury and Sir John Lade mounted on a brace
of mules, to run from the Ditch-in for ioool.
This ludicrous heat was obstinately contested—
the event was in favor of the Duke. The match
was made over night> and over a bottle too, no
doubt atthe Macaroni Club—Nobly done, at least !
Paris, October 20. An exprets arrived at
the Imperial ambafladorslalt night, with the im
portant news of the surrender of Belgrade. '
It is also reported that sixty thousand Prulfian
troops have entered Brabant, in support of the
insurgents, and that the Dutch are marching,
with all polfible expedition, to poflefs theinfelves
of the Barrier Towns.
A correspondent fays, that by hints he has re
ceived from Bruflels, the Emperor may bid adieu
to that fine country.
M. Matonde la Varenne, an advocate inthe Parliament of Pa
ns, has publilhed an cxaft copy of a paper, found by him in the
Baftile, the day after it was taken : thefcare the contents :
" Copy of a letter, written by me, Duflfault, a prisoner in the Bafti/c,
on the 1H as December, 1642, to Cardinal Richlicu, dangeroujty ill.
" There is a time, my Lord, when a man ceases to he cruel and
urijuft, and it is when his approaching dissolution forces him to
dcfcend into the gloomy recenes of his conscience, to weep for
the troubles, fotrows, and misfortunes, he has caused to his fel
low creatures ; for now you mud be fcnfible of what you never
would be persuaded ol.that thefupreme and excellent Creator From
above h.ismadc us all alter the fame model, and that his intention
was, that men, Ihould not be dillinguiftiedfrom one another, but
hy their virtues. You know, my Lord, that for these eleven
years pad, you made me fuller a thousand deaths in the Baftile,
-where even felons, and the mod unloyal of his Majesty's lubjefts,
■would deserve pity and companion : Much more I then, my
Lord, whom you in.ike perish by inches for having disobeyed an
order of yours, that would have doomed my foul to everlaftmg
torments, and made me appear in the presence of Almighty God,
our tremendous Judge, with handsJlained in blood. Ah ! were you
to hear the plaints, figb>, »nd groans, I inceflantly heave, from the
dungeon you have condemned me to, I ain sure you would forth
with restore me to liberty.
I earnestly coniure yon, my Lord, to do it, in the name of
that eternal God, who is to judge you as well as my felf; take pity
oi» my ciuel furtVmigs and sorrows ! and if yon wilh to be merci
ful before you die, -;ive immediate orders for my chains to be bro
ken ; for when once in the power of death, you will no longer
be able to do me that justice I can claim but from you ; and you
would then profecutc ir»e even after death, which God preserve
you from, it you will vouchfafe to yield to the humble prayer of
a man, who has always been a loyal fubiett to his Majeftv.
11 I am, My Lord,
" With veneration, rcfpeO, and fubmiflion,
" Your's, See.
li Duss AU IT ."
From the LONDON PUBLIC ADVERTISER.
TONTINE. /
MR. Pitt said the other day on opening
the budget, " that front the present great
plenty of money in the city, he was resolved to
try the spirit of adventure in a Tontine."
Some readers of newspapers boggle at the word
Tontine, and perhaps may search their Dictiona
ries in vain.—lt was derived from Tonti, an Ita
lian, who was the firlt projector of the mode of
railing money on furvivorlhips.
The old lady who is now living and enjoying
i 2,0001. a year, by having been a fubferiber to
Queen Anne's Tontine, has not yet been found.
Has any body ever seen this old lady ? Does any
body know this old lady ? Has any body seen the
man that saw the man that saw this old lady ?
The new Tontine, it is hoped, will have its ef
fect on the manners of the age, and encourge
temperance in eating and drinking, as the only
means of furvivorlhip. '
A Tontine is surely the most plealing way of
alking for a loan ; for every one lias the strong
liope°of life; and willing to believe that to be
true, which he ardently wifhesto be so, pleases
himfelf with the idea of long life, and rhus free
ly ventures upon the wager.—Every Tontine is
little more than a bet: 1 lay iool. that I out live
you The present Tontine is certainly favorable
to the public because it secures a large interell upon
government credit. —Other Tontines may and
have been involved in law suits, and consequently
injury and delay;—this cannot be so circumstan
ced.—Lives too, in general, are little better up
on the whole, than they used to be ; and every
member being confined to an annuity of ioool.
per aim. so that no long liver can ever receive
more dividend, so much of the national debt is
in fair prospect to be annihilated. —But the in
crease of premium will f'oon bring it to the price
of the Ilocks.
A waggilli correspondent informs us that a
roongthe number of thofewho are to fubferibe to
the Tontine, in hopes offurv'tvorfhip, are the Earls
of Mansfield, Batliurft and Guilford.—Macklin—
Deputv Ellis, &c. &c. and other proinilingyoung
mew,
REFLECTIONS of ONE designed for a Nunnery.
Written 100 years ago.
T
A O avoid the tyranny of lawless paflion,
The hazards of contempt and calumny*
The heats and hectics both of fear and love,
The qualms, and quarrels of a married life,
The cumbers, hummings 'bout a family:
To ride secure out of the reach of fortune,
O'erlooking all those roiling tides of fate,
Which a vain world is hurried with, and then
To be Wrapt up in innocence, a Devotee
Dear and familiat to the Deity ;
Is furelya condition to be caught at
With all th' expansion both,of mind and body:
But then again, to weigh the cancelling
Of what I'm born to, tugging all tny life
Against the tide ; still {training up the hill,
The plains and pit afant vallies ever hidden.
What is it less than the bold undertaking
Of a perpetual war with nature ? which how well
I may cbme off in, is to me unknown.
But does not nature in her genial pourfe,
Dcfign all creatures for their fixed end ?
Did the wife God of nature give me seX
Only to cast it off ?
Our paflions, our affections and desires
We are enjoin'd to regulate—not relinquish 1
Why were these obiefts lent us, set before
Our open eyes, and we forbid to view them ?
Our joys, our hopes, the feathers of the foul
Were never given to become our torment:
I cannot think so meanly of the Deity,
That it should fill our fails with pregnant gales,
And yet forbid us touch those pleasing coasts,
That we thereby are driven to.—All spiritual is
Too fine for flefli to live by ; and too gross
Is food corporeal all : As man is mixt,
So his affection's object must. Love temper'd right
Is chaste as cold Virginity. And since
He merits more, that means, unbound, to pay,
Than he that is ty'd up to ftrift conditions ;
I'll rather chufe to keep myfelf in that
£(late iny wife Creator did appoint me,
Than to miftrult his Grace, and out of fear
Lock up in forced chains my free-born foul.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
THE G U E S T—No. I.
" Ignorant old age, is the worfl picture that
Time can draw of Man."
HOW important is it to make provision inyouth
to alleviate the inevitable miieries of old
age ! that we may mitigate the sorrows of our de
clining years, by finding a substitute for tliofe va
cancies which time, accidents and death, will
make in our friends and enjoyments ! Though
we cannot fly from our fate, yet we can meliorate
its leverity. Nature in a thousand direifUons teach
es us the mod ufeful leflons of prudence, and fore
thought. We anticipate winter ; we provide for
its approach, and its inclemency is abated. The
difference between a wife man and a fool is, that
the latter lives to the moment; the former al
ways calculates for the confequeilces of events.
Providence hath llot pointed out any expedient
to relieve tis under the infirmities of age, equal
to knowledge, study and meditation. A taste foi
these must be acquired in youth; while the mind
is flexile and fufceptibleof impreflions, our stock
of ideas should be laid in. These will prove oui
lie vet failing friends and companions, when others
desert us. With our books we can always find
tlie best company.—The fprightlinefs of youth;
the gravity of age *the politics of palt ages,and the
current history of our own times paTs in review,
and beguile the tedioufnefs of confinement. With
these we connetfi the present with the past; and
while we are on the limits of exiltence, we can
fend our thoughts backwards and trace the inci
dents of ufefulnefs, friendfhip and happiness thro'
which we have palled. Chearfulnefs is the off
fpring of knowledge and virtue, and it fmootlis
the furrows of age—lt attra&s the company, love,
and veneration of the young—lt fmootlis the pil
low of lonelinefs—lt shuts the door to chagrin and
fretfulnefs, and gilds the last moments of life with
the rays of future glory.
But a vicious and ignorant old age, is the foil
that produces a congregation of miferies—lt adds
a {hade to the shadows of the long nights, and
clouds the snort days of the winter of life. Igno
rance and weakness incapacitate from employ
ment; and impose the mott irksome sensations ot
idleness 011 the mind.—'Tis this makes old age
to be dreaded ; for except its infirmities arc
tempered by information, experience, and vir
tue, it will bedeferted by the young and middle
aged ; and cotemporaries in ignorance, chagrin
and ennui, will add to the weig'.it that finks it.
unpitied into dull.
BASTILE ANECDOTE.
THE DREAM BOOK.
TMIESE lingular volumes, we (inderftand have been preserved
1 jnd we hope to gratify the Curiosity of our readers by the
followiug authentic account of them.
It wasihe custom of the Lieutenant Governor, or rather, as we
believe he was called, the Major of the Baftile, not from any or
der of government, but as a curious whim of his own, to enquire
of any prisoner who was destined to liberty or death, On the
morning of the day of execution or deliverance, concerning the
dream of the preceding night. Whatever fancics had troubled
or sweetened the repofc of the prisoner, we may believe to have
been related with agitated fidelity, and the vtlion, whatever it
might have been, being noted down by the officer, he always
retired with great politeness, but never was known to commu
nicate whether the dream of the night was or w'as not ominous of
tiie event of the day.
The Gentleman who inflrufts us in this article, and from whom
w-lball receive further notifications concerning this horrid m»n
tion, was once a trembling inhabitant of it.
On the day of his dclivcrance, but before he had received any
information concerning it, the Major of the Prison waited on
liijn a* he ocCalionally did, and after forae officialcoHvetfation dc
frred him to relate thedrea'.n of the preceding night.—The ques
tion he thought foreboded something, and he was not in a situation
to fuppofethat it foreboded any good ; however, after some time
the dream enquired after was recolle&ed, and was as follows :
The prisoner dreamed that he was walking in a church yard ;
that the path lay round the church, which was a very large and
lofty Gothic building, and that a croud of persons of all age*
and both sexes, who appeared entirely unknown to him, were
taking the fame circuit with himfelf. On a sudden a large globe
of fire feeniedto be suspended over the church, and in a short time
the lead, melted by the prodigious heat, ran in streams from eve
ry part of the building, and as it it'll onrthe people beneath, it
instantly destroyed them. After some time a stream of the burn
ing metal fell upon him, but without doing him the least injury,
and he alone appeared to escape the horrid ruin that surrounded
him.
The Major wrote down miuuteS of this dream, rrturned the
prisoner thanks for his communication, and took h;s leave—lt was
however, ominous of his deliverance, for in less than an hour he
was restored to liberty.
B O S T O N, November 21.
AUTHENTIC NEWS FROM FRANCE.
Oil Monday la It, His ]\loft Cbriftian Alajtfty's
cutter, La Levrete, commanded by M. Chevalier
de la Bourdonnaye, arrived here in 36 days
from Brest, with dispatches for the Hon. Consut.
of France, who in conl'equence thereof has
given the agreeable official information that all
the Free Ports of the French Welt-India IHands,
are open until the ill of February next, for the
introduction of Flour and Bifcuit,from the Unitecl
States.
At the departure of tlie above cutter, we can
afl'ure our readers that the National Afleinbly was
still progreliing towards a completion :—That
the loan of 80,000,000 of livres was tilled up :—
That tranquility was intirely restored : Ami that
there was everyprofpetft thatFRANCE was ••apid
ly approximating to that state of refpetf ibility
as a Nation, which her imnienfe refoiirces—the
fertility of her foil—and the patriotism of her
King, and People, intitle her to.
It is with pleasure we hear, that the Massa
chusetts, Eaft-Indiaman, will be completly fitt
ed with Sails, Cordage, Anchors, &c. of Ame
rican manufacture. Yellerday her largest Cable,
of 18 inches, and 120 fathoms, made at Meflrs.
Austins' Ropewalk, wasi'ent onboard.
NEW-YORK, DECEMBERS.
The present war between the Ruilbns, Auftrians, Swedes, and
Turks, exhibits a moll degrading piQure of human nature—how
humiliating the consideration, that to gratify the spleen, caprice,
and ambition of a few individuals, whom a fortuitous con' urrence
of events, have placed in a particular situation, that wi )le regions
should be depopulated—that human creatures Should be clafled
together, clothed in a particular manner, wearing the livery oP
death, and marched through extensive regions ; leave their wives,
children, and habitations, all the delights of domelike enjoyment,
to be (laughtcred for the acquifii ion. of an object in which thri
are not intuited. Can it be poffjble that so great a proporl oa
of our fellow men will much longer submit to fuel) vallallage ?—
Opprcffion over the bodies, and efl .tcs of men in a time of peace,
may well rdtife the fdffererito refiftariee ; but the cruel depreda
tions committed by the tyrants of. the earth upon the rights, the
fieedom. the ti..nqui!ity, the prosperity, and I'ecurity, not only
of their enemies, but their /'V ' • ~tru "J Kar > U P the
measure of human mifeiy and fcter/adatrjn.
According to an accurate calculation the Inter
est of"the Domestic Debt of the United States a
mounted on the 31ft December, 1737,
to Dc/lan, 90ths, Bths.
8,123,124 55 7
Two years Interest will be 7 ,
due the 31ft Dec. 1789. 43 7
The total due on Ift Jan. 7 6 6 6
1790, will be 5 7 '
When it is considered Tiow inadequate the funds
of the Continent were under the old Confedera
tion, for the difcliarge of this Interest—How in*
efficient the powers to bring tliofe funds, ineffi
cient as they were, into the Continental Freafury
: When the accumulation oftliis Interest, and the
consequent perplexities are taken into view, the
difl'olution of the Union, the loss of reputation,
and public confidence, that must inevitably have
ensued, had we been so judicially blind, as to
have persevered 111 our bewildered system any
longer, we never can fufßciently adore the wif
doni, and mercy of JTeaven, that arrested us in
our career to ruin—and directed our footfteps to
the paths of Government, Peace, and Honor. j—
In this view of the fubje<ft,it is extremely difficult
to account, upon the principles of hofiefty and
common fenfe/for any remaining traces ofoppo
fition to the New Government.—lt is no breach
of charity to suppose that a virulent spirit of op
position discovered at this late period, indicates a
mind, that would convulse the Universe to carry'
a favorite point.—Some such chara«flerS are now
and then found floating, like bubbles, on the dead
lake of Anarchy—but the Lake itfelf is in a fair
way of being dried up, when, deprived of their
element, envy, chagrin and difappointmcnt will
be no more.
The Theatre was unusually crctuded onMon
day Evening—The Campaign bids fair to close
very much to the fatisfacftion of the Old American
Company—Recent exertions have in a peculiar
manner contributed to their success. Sat verbam,irc.
The A<fts and Resolves in the fourth page of this
number completes oar publication of the Laws,
&c. of the firft session of the national Legislature
under the new Constitution.
ARRIVALS.—NEW-YORK.
Tucfday, Schsoner Edwaad, Smith, Shelburne.
Sloop Fanny, Randolph, Philadelphia,
Brig Mary, Nisi, Eriftol, 39 days.MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER XvT
Amsterdam, Oct. 26, i7Sp.
SIR,
YOUR fifteenth qusere is, '' Did not the Etiglifh
army lay cut its pay in America ? At how much
can the yearly benefit he calculated ? Are not the
jrifoners provided for in America? Who has the
care of their maintenance .•* How was Burgoyne's ar
my supplied ?
WHEN the English army was in Boiton, they
bought all that they could, and left considerable
sums there in silver and gold. So they did at
Rhode-liland. Since they have been in New-
York, they have purchased every thing they could
of provisions and fuel, on Long-Island, Staten-
Island, New-York-Island, and in those parts of the
States of New-York, and New-Jersey, where
they have been able to carry on any clandestine
traffic. When they were in Philadelphia, they
did thefame ; and Gen. Howe tells you, that he
fufpetfs that Gen. Washington, from political
motives, connived at the people's supplying Phi
ladelphia, in order essentially to serve his coun
try, by inlinuating into it large fumsof silver and
gold. They are doing the fame now, more or
less, in South Carolina and Georgia; and they
cannot go into any part of America without do
ing the lame.
The British prisoners, in the hands of the Ame
ricans, receive their cloathing chiefly from the
English; and flags of truce are permitted to come
out from their lines for this purpose. They re
ceive their pay also from their mailer ; and spend
the mol> of it where they are ; they also purchase
provisions in the country, and pay for it in hard
money.
I am not able to ascertain exatftly the yearly be
nefit ; but it mull be considerable: And the addi
tion now of a French fleet, and army 10 supply,
will lyake a great addition of calli and bills of
exchange, which will facilitate commerce and
privateering. And the more troops and ships
Great Britain and France fend to America, the
greater will this refonrce neceliarily be to the A
mericans. I have the honor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
From the HERALD ok FREEDOM.
MR. PRIVTER,
I WAS highly gratified bytliefhort observations
of your con efpondent Agricola, in the He
rald of Tuesday last. He difcovercd in his ad
drefsto the" wife," so candid and good a temper,
so much real judgment, and such a zeal for the
liberty of my country, that 1 long to know him,
that I may thank him. I must, however, content
ruyfelf with exprefung, in this manner, my gra
titude to him, and my cordial agreement in his
sentiments. Ido not generally approve of con
demning whole profellions of men at once, or
determining upon the motive by which they are
governed, but these clergymen are fair game,
and are not entitled to the common rights or
charily of mankind. Much has been said of their
good behaviour during the revolution, but your
correspondent has found a motive which at once
f weeps off all their merit in this affair, and frees
lis from the obligations which some fooliih people
supposed we were under to them 011 this account.
Certain it is that they cannot be friends to freedom,
because they pray again(l anarchy; nor can they
truly love liberty, because they are averse tolicen
tioufnefs ! They have proved that they are not
genuine whigs, in your correfponilont's sense
and mine, for they were, to a man almost, united
againit that high and glorious friend to liberty,
Gen.ghays ; and what is far worse, they appear
ed as unanimously to approve of our new ieileral
conilitution, which deitroys the liberty of paper
money and tender ac r ts forever, and will prevent
that anarchy, without which your correspondent
and 1 shall never beno'.iced or honored. Thev
have also had the confidence to discover a great
affection and regard for President Washington,
who, notwirhitanding his pretended zeal for li
berty during the revolution, appears to have as
great an aversion to " licendouftiefs and anar
chy," as these black coated gentry, by which
means he has loit his merit with your correspond
ent and myfelf, and all others like minded.
If there had been proper gtiards against the
opprefuons of our rulers and to preserve the con
fetjuence of the people, established by our con
stitutions, I should not have joined so fully with
Agricola in his brilliant observations, but every
body knows that our rulers pofiefs absolute pow
er :—That the people cannot turn them out of
places, nor eletft others in theit room, and
that our great men have been remarkable for acft
ing directly contrary to the sense and will of their
constituents for many years part. Our govern
ment is so far from being democratical, that we
are in the utiPcft danger from monarchy anddef
potifm, and every' man ought to do all he can to
weaken the force of and increase the
consequence of the peoj~*l e -
I am also gratified to fine? that your good cor
respondent is cautioning the public against the
encroachments of tliefe iniiiifters, for if we cio
not soon take the alarm, they will loon overrun
and enslave us. They are, Mr. Printer, so very
rich; they have such nionltrous overgrown liv
ings,that they will soon be able to buy out all the
country ; and then they are so independent too !
Everybody knows that they aie under no re
straint or controul from a fear of incuringthe
displeasure of their hearers. They cannot be
removed from their places, nor puniflied if they
do amiss, but amidst their pomp, their power and
their riches, they bid defiance to all around them.
I cordially hope that my friend Agricola will
continue his humorous publications, until our li.
berty shall be thoroughly eltablilhed, and we shall
be no more troubled either witli religion or go
vernment. IRONICUS.
RETIREMENT.
him Ipraifc, who from the world retii'<l.
i.\ By no cnliv'mng gen'rous paflionfir'd,
On flow'ry couches (lumbers life away,
And gently bids Ins atlive powers decay ;
Who tears bright glory's awful face to fce,
And fhunsrenafwn as much as infamy.
But blclt is he, who, exercis'd in cares,
To private leisure public virtue bears;
Who, tranquil, ends the race lie nobly tun,
And decks rcpofc with tropies labor won ;
Him honor follows to the sacred lhadc,
An4crowns, propitious, his declining head ;
In his retreats their harps the Muses itring,
for him, in lavs unbought, spontaneous sing ;
Fiiendfhip and truth on all his moments wait,
Pleas'd with retirement better with ftatc ;
And round the bower, where humbly great he lies,
Fair olives bloom, and verdant laurels rife.
The JoHoxuing is an ADDRESS of the TRUSTEES oj Dartmouth
College, and presented by the President of said Colle/e, on the 14th
ihjl. at Neaj ~ v ori,
To THE PRESIDENT of the United States.
SIR,
A PROVIDENCE, that overrules the affairs of menandof
nations, has luade in every age of the world fotne extraor
dinary display of pdwer and goodness in favor of the human
race. Greattr events have been afligned for the eighteenth ceniu
ry than ever before took place in the anrrals of time. Among
these events the revolution of our d*y in North-America may be
recorded as the mod important. The discovery of the new
world was made by a spirit <jf enterprise and peifeverance ; the
advancement of it in people, in arts," and in wealth, was effeftcd
by prudence, economy, and industry : But a revolution from a
state of opprcflion to that of freedom and independency ; and a
political refurrefiion from a state without harmony, difpa'tch and
power, to that of order, vigour arid glory, have been the achicv
mcnts o> all the combined virtues, which can adorn the Itatefman
and the heio. Through these most intending scenes the eyes of
mankind were turned to you, and in you they confided. Guard
ed and direfled by the-aulpices of our' Divine Parent, you have
justly merited those fublimc and endearing epithets-Tik Saviour
of your Country, aud the Founder of a New Empire.
influenced by those ideas, and imprefled with a fenfeof that du
ty and gratitude which are cla.racd by services for humanity,and
arts unrivalled in thcannals of fame, we embrace the firft oppor
tunity, as a Corporation, to express those feelings of obligation,
whiclican never be erased through the devastations of time. We
beg, Sir, of you to accept - our finccre desire, that the Father of
mercies may piotraft your life and health to a remote pertod of
time, you are invited to angelick joys and fublimcr tri
umphs. We pray, that you may uninterruptedly experience all
that felicity, which the vim.ous, wile and beloveef Chief of mili
ons has reason or delire ; and that every may be
extended to your illustrious family.
In the finccrcll fcntmients of duty and gratitude, -we use the
liberty of fubfenbing ourfelvc's,
Sir, your most obedient
And very humble servants.
Signed in behalf of the Board of TruJires of Dartmouth College, at
their annual neeting at fid college, this ud day oj Augujl, ,789.
JOHN WHEELOCK.
THE FR ESIOENT'S AJSWIR.
To the WARD of TRUSTEES of DARTMOUTH COLLEGE
C E NT L EM EN,
TN' afligning so important an agency to the endeavors of an in-
X dividual, as mentioned in your address, you render a tribute
to ray fcivtees which a sense ot propriety forbids mc to affumr
ror the flattering terms in which you are pleased to exprefc your
sentiments of those services, and for the kind withes which you
prefer in mv behalf, I thankyou with grateful sincerity
To the animated fpiritof freedom that pervaded our country
and to the firm temper of our citizens, which braved all dangers ir.
defence of their privileges (under the protedfing careof Divine
Providence are we indebted for the bleflings of political ,nde
pendence : To the enlightened polfcy which has direaed our
public councils, we owe the reform and cftablifhment of our fe
derall conftituiion : Under its auspicious influence, aided by the
industry ot those: citizens, who compose the great family of our
Union, we may hope for the substantial enjoyments of individual
happiness and nathonal honor. From your fupcrintendmgcare,
Gentlemen as the guardians of a feminarv arid an important
[nXwerZa'ta"' '°
Ttetyourlib'or may be crowned with success, and render
you happy in its confequenfes, is my sincere prayer.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
FRO.M A LATE ENGLISH PAPER.
T ORD C AMDEN had enclosed part of a com
-111011 and {topped up the thorough fare : fee
ing a country fellow go up through the ground,
he called and told him he had no right to %o thro'
that ground. The man told his Lordfliip, he had
gone that way ever since he was a child, and did
not know any reason why he should not 00 ihen :
scratching Ins head he begged to aflc his Eordfliip
a quelhon : « Suppose a man fhouJd Ileal some of
the geele that were feeding there, what would
they do to the person who took them !" He would
replied his Lordihip, be carried before a justice _I
a ,ul P ra y» what would be done to the man who
of 7? common from the geese ?" His Lordniip
made him no answer ; but the man was never in
terrupted in palling that way afterwards.
congress o? the UNITED STATES
Bcfgun and held at the City of New-York, on Wcd'ntfdavrt,. r ,
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred snd Eighty !l
a. act „
Captain in the army of the United Slates be allowed to tvV 1
de Glaubeck, from the nimn day of Mareh, one thousand
hundred and eighty one, to the twentv-fourth da-/ of Aurnft
thousand seven hundred and c:ghtv-two, to be paid , n X,
manner as other foreign officers in the service of the United C,T
have been paid,. tll: '
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG
Speaker of the Houf,- of HetreCentu
JOHX ADAMS,
and President of HestJ tli
Approved, September the 29th, 1780
< GEORGE WASHINGTON', Prefident'of Ui, CWfoi».
An ACT to alter the time for the next Meeting o/Con-refs.
BE it evaded by the Senate and Houfc of R:prefcnt alius tftlu Uvl
States of America in Congress ajjembled, That after the adiotm,
ment of the present feflion, the next meeting of ConmL fh.li
be on the firft Monday in January next.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Sfvker of the Houfc of Rcprefenti(k><
JOHN ADAMS, Pice* President of the United Statu,
and President of thrScnaic,
APPROV ID, SfTFMRE R THE 20th, 1780
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President ofihe Uiiki botes.
RESOLVED, That the Survey dire&ed by Congress in their
ast of June the sixth, one thousand (even hundred and
eighty-eight, be made and returnedto the secretary of the treafur
without delay ; and that the President cis the United States he r
qucfted to appoint a fit person to complete the fame; who IUI h c
allowed five dollars per day whilst a&ually employed in the said
service, with the expehces necessarily attending the ewoitioa
thereof.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG.
Speaker of the Houfc of Reprefentatiw 4
JOHN ADA MS, Vice-Prejident of the United States,
avd President of the Senate,
Approved, Aucust the 26, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President 6f the United States.
RESOLVED by the Senate and House of Rebrefentatives ojthe
United States of America in Congress ajfembled, That it be re-,
commended to the Legifiatures of the several States topafslaws,
making it expressly the duty of the keepers of-their gaols, tore,
ceive and fafe keep therein all prisoners committed under the au
thority of the United States, until thev sHall be discharged by the
due course of the laws thereof, under the like penalties as in the
:afc of prisoners committed under the authority of such States
refpe&ively ; the United States to pay for the use and keeping of
such gaols, at tl«c rate of fifty ccnts per month for eachprifoiur
that shall, under their authority, be committed thereto) during
thetime hich prisoners shall be therein confined ; and alfoto(up
port such of said prisoners as (hall be committed for offences.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Houfc of Reprefentdtvis.
JOHN ADAMS, Vicc-Prtfident of the United Statu,
and President of the StntM.
Approved, September the 23d; 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the UnitedStW
RESOLVED, shall be the duty of the Secretary of
State, to procure from time to time such of the Statutes of
the several States as may not be in his office.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG.
Speaker of the House of Reprcfcritativu.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and President of tke Senate
Approved, September the 23d, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
RESOLVED, by the Senate and Houf; of Reprefentatiw of tk
United States of America in Congress ajjembled, That John
White, late a commiflioner to fettle the accounts between the
L T nited States and the States of Pennsylvania, Delaware and Mary
land, and his clerks, John Wright and J'ofhua Dawfon, be con
sidered as in office until the fourth day of February, onethopfand
seven hundred and eighty-nine.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker ps the House of Reprefentntwit.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prefdent of the United States,
and President of the Scmtt,
Approved, September the 59th, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.,
' From the NEW-HAMPSHIRE GAZETTEER.
ANECDOTE.
THE late honorable Judge Sewell y went into a hatter's stop,
one day, in order to procure a pair of second-handed brufli
es, for the purpose of cleaning his shoes ; at which the matter of
the (hop presented him with a .couple, which were become unfit
for his own use. " What is your price," fays the Judge: "If
they will answer your purpose," replies the other*, you rnay have
them and welcome." The Judge heating this, laid them dowrron
the plank, and with a graceful bow, he went out at the door. At
which, the mechanic faith to him, •* Pray Sir, your Honor ha*
forgotten the principal design of your visit." L ' By no means,
replies the Judge, " if you will please to set your price, I Ha™
ready to purrhafe : but ev^r since it has fallen to my lot to occupy
a feat on the bench, I have Itudioufly avoided receiving a single
copper, by way of donation, left in some future period ot
it might have f(Mie kind of influence in determiningmy judgment-
ADVERTISE ME XT.
TIIF. Gazette oj the United States circulates in every fart 6!
the Union—being by JuhJcribers in South and Sort
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland. Delaware, Pennsylvania,
Connecticut, Rhode-lfland, Maffachvfrtts,
and Diflricl oj Maine, Canada, Europe, and the Wejl Indies. ThistX'
tensive circulation renders it a proper vehicle for Advertisements
bfii general, commercial and governmental import:—ity the
desire and advice, therefore, of a number of its patrons, this papi'
wil/ be open for the reception of advertisements of the above dejenptron,
rohich as they will convex intelligence of an interefli-ng nature, M* '*
/or hopes their infer t ion mill meet the approbation of hisjrien s in
general. Should the number at any *time amount to more than a page »*
the Gazette, they will be given in a Supplement. A' FEN SO
New-York, Nov. 28', 1780.
ADVERTISEMENT.
MR. ADAMS's LETTERS witch have appeared mjfi <*•
zcUcy are part of a series, 26 in number, wrote by his Exce ency
Holland—the whole arepublijfied in a pamphlet of 64 p a S es '
to-l'tfoldb by Mejfrs. Berry & Rogers, Hanover-Square* Mr. 0
, Hodge, Qkeen-Street, and by the Editor hereof.
PublifUed by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden-
La nf, nenrthc Ofwcgn-Mtrkcl, New-York.—[3 Jd-p'-