-No. LXX.j
THE TABLE T. No. LXX.
" Hoitfji measures will be most apt, in the long run,
to gain the concurrence of the public opinion."
WE need not have recourfeto any abstraCt
notions of moral obligation to furnifh
a reason, why mankind have generally approved
of truth and fair dealing. Whatever may be the
original bias of the human heart with refpeet to
oood and evil, or whether it naturally has any
bias either way, is not material in elucidating the
subjeCt of this (peculation. It is fufficient for my
present purpofc to attend to fails, withoet look
ing into the origin of principles, or estimating
the merit of motives. On this ground, if 0:1 no
other, we may venture to pronounce that justice
and veracity allimilate Co rendily with the common
sentiments of men, that whoever, does not ob
serve these duties, hazards the loss of his influence
and In a tumultuous liate of fociety,it
is true, these virtues seem to be disregarded ; but
they will soon gain their accuitonied eltiination,
when order and tranquility are restored. It is
only in tliofe lituations, where people cannot re
flect calmly and a<ft soberly, that falfhood and in
jufticedo not meet with public indignation. De
clarations that are falfe, and aCtions that are un
juftmay allume such a difguift as to gain popular
approbation, under the idea that they are true
and juit. The opinions of men may be l'o distraCt
ed, and their tempers l'o agitated with new and
difficult circumstances, that they may be utterly
at a loss in what their duty or their interell con
lifts. Under such embarrassments, people com
mit errors, while they suppose they are aCting
wifely ; and fufpendthe practice of themoraldu
ties from an ignorance of the comprehenlive na
ture of morality. But as 110 society can be long
held together, in a state so convulsed as to difh
pate ider.sof moral rectitude, we mult conclude
that a restoration ofgovernment will awaken anew
the sentiments of moral obligation. There never
can be a long period when men can cease to per
form their obligations without sustaining private
inconvenience and public reproach. The exist
ence of society pre-fuppofes some controling in
fluence of virtuous attributes. Whether they are
the effect of fear of punifhnient, or Jove of duty, I
Itill call them virtuous, because they are ufeful.
If these reflections are just, they fliould infpireus
with caution againlt imbibing theopjnionsorimi
tating the aCtions of those who av*il tlieinfelves
of dilordered times to bewilder and pervert the
public ide * of veracity and justice.
The truth of 111 motto is amply illustrated in
the fate of the leading characters who have con
ducted us to independence and government. It
is worthy of remarkthat those men, who are now
held in veneration and employed in public ser
vice, are principally the men, who have all along
delivered the lame opinions, and recommended
the fame measures, that have finally coincided
with the public opinion. But when we look on
Ihe other hand, and behold characters of an op
pufue description, how are they negleCied and
fallen ! There was a time, when the friends of
disorder and injuflic« beguiled the public mind
into a belief that they were the friends of freedom
and virtue. Such delusions however can never
have along continuance. Opinions, that cannot
bear the telt of a strict examination, much lels of
a fair experiment, mull be renounced, when the
people are left to cool reflection. Menaverfeto
good government can never long hold an ascen
dency in foeiety, unless the objects of human hap
ptnefs,and the feelings of the human heart under
go an alteration.
It Ihould encourage our patriots and legislators
toperfevere in a course ol honor andjultice, by
contemplating that they have gone through the
molt hazardous and difficult trials, to which our
affairs will probably be exposed. she objects of
lepiflatloH that will now rife into view are so great
and exienftve, that lioneft minds may be alarmed
«it their magnitude and variety. I hiscircumftunce
may deter some people from venturing to adopt
ihofe iyltems that wear the face of intrinsic pro
priety and excellence. When men have long been
uccultomed to temporary expedients and partial
arrangements they cannot at once collect fortitude
to embrace measures, that fliall have a general,
permanent operation. But itmult be concluded
that plans founded in wifdoni are not to be reject
ed because they are great; and those founded in
lioneity should be recommended, notwithftandiiig
they may be new.
EXTRACT.
A N infant begot 011 a dunghill, brought forth
i- in a pigllye, and swathed with a rotten rem
nant of the covering of an ass, may have talents
and capacity above the ion of an Emperor.
o/t£eX Cuts cb o|cii 0..
SATURDAY, December 12, 17 3g.
EXTRACTS from the ADDRESS of the firft PRES
BYTERY of the EaJlivarJ,
To GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of
the United States.
SIR,
" t ' le ministers and ruling ciders, dele
gated to reprefeiit the churches in Mas
sachusetts and New-Hamplhire, which compose
rhe h irlt Prelbytery of the Ealtward, now hold
ing a ltated feflion in this town, beg leave to ap
proach your presence with genuine feelings oft he
deepest veneration and higiiellefteem.
" In unison with rejoicing millions we felici
tate our country, and ourselves, on your unani
mous election to the highest office a nation can
beltow ; and on your acceptanceof the truft,with
every evidence, which a citizen can give, of be
ing actuated thereto by the purefl principles of
patriotilm, of piety and of felf-denial.
" Great was the joy of our hearts to fee the
late tedious and deftruclive war at length termi
nated, in a fair and honorable peace—to fee the
liberty and independence of our country happily
secured—to fee wife conftitutionsof civil govern
ment peaceably eltablifhed in the several States—
and especially to fee a confederation of them all,
finally agreed on by the general voice.
" But, amid all our joys, we ever contemplated
with regret the want of efficiency in the federal
government: ; we ardently wished for a form of
NAtjONiL union, which ihould draw the cord of
amity more closely around the several States—
which should concentrate their interests, and re
duce the frcemewof America to one great body,
ruled by one head, and animated by one foul.
" And, now, we devoutly offer our humble tri
bute of praise and thankfgivi«g to the all-graci
ous Father or lights, who has inspired our
public councils with a wisdom and firmnefs which
have effectc 1 that desirable purpose, in so great
a ineafurc, by the National Conjlitution ; and who
has fixed the eyes of all America on you, as the
worthiest of their citizens, to be entrulted with
the execution of jt.
" Whatever any have fuppoled wanting in the
original plan, we are happy to fee so wifely pro
viding in its amendments : and it is with peculiar
fat is faction that we behold, lioweafily the entire
confidence of the people, in the man who fits at
the helm of government, has eradicated every
lemaining objection to its form.
" Anion;; these we never considered the want
of a religious test, that grand engine of perfe
ction in every tyrant's hand : But, we should
not have been alone in rejoicing, to have seen
some explicit acknowledgement of the only true
God and Jesus Christ whotnhe hath sent, insert
ed, somewhere, in the Magna Charta of our
country."
" Under the nurturing hand of a ruler, of
such virtues, and one so deservedly revered by
all ranks, we joyfully indulge the hope, that
virtue and religion will revive and flourifli—that
infidelity, and the vices ever attendant in its train,
will be baniflied every polite circle—and that
national piety will soon become fafhionable there,
and from thence be diffufed among all ranks in
the community."
Newbury-Port, 0(1. 28, 1789.
THE ANSWER.
gentlemen,
THE affectionate welcome, which you are
pleased to give ine to the ealtern parts of
the'Unioii, would leave me without excuse, did
I fail to acknowledge the sensibility which itawa
kens ; and to exprel's them oft sincere return, that
a graceful sense of your goodness can suggest.
To be approved by the praise-worthy, is a wish
is natural to becoming ambition as its confe
rence is flattering to our felf-love.
lam, indeed, much indebted to the favorable
sentiments, which you entertain towards me, and
it will be my study to defervc them.
The tribute of tliankfgiving,which you offer to
thegracious Kather of lights, for his inspi
ration of our public councils with wisdom and
firmnefs to complete the national constitution, is
worthy of men, who devoted to the pious purpo
ses of religion, desire their accomplifliment by
such means as advance the temporal happiness of
their fellow men. And, here, I am persuaded,
you will perniic me to observe, that the path of
true piety is so plain as to require but little poli
tical direction.
To this consideration we ought to ascribe the
ablence of any regulation refpecfting religion
from the Magna Charta of our country. To the
guidance of the ministers of the Gospel, this im
portant object .is, perhaps, more properly com
mitted. It will be your care toinftruifttheignc
rant, and to reclaim the devious : And in the
progrcfj of morality and fcicncc, to which our
[ Publifki+? on Wediisfday and Saturday
government will oive everv furtherance, we may
~ " 7 •
confidently expert the advancement of true reli
gion, and the completion ot' our happiness.
I pray the munificent Rewarder of Virtue, that
your agency in this good work may receive its
compensation here and hereafter.
G. WASHINGTON.
An animated, natural, and irittrefling dcfcriptian of
the POOR MA£/'s J LO-r.
An EXTRACT from the NO RWICH PACKET.
THE third class are planted down in the dark,
difnial valiey, at the foot us mount opulence ;
where fogs and damp vapors envelope them in
perpetual obscurity and indigence : They live
chiefly on the fruits of the mountain, walked down
from the inaccefiible heights into the small rivu
lets of charity—tliefe rivulets are sometimes
almost dry :—The half built houses of these
people are no barriers agarnit the fierce northerly
winds. The descending cold rains have free ac
cess to every apartment, which by the way are
not numerous—if by chance yon happen in at
their habitation, your eyes arc not dazzied with
fliining furniture, but darkened by wooden win
dows ; are you fatigued by a long walk to visit
them, and fainting for want of refrefhrocnc
when you arrive there, a cup of cold water and
a piece of coarse bread are all their gratitude
can set before you. Their children, though nu
merous, are clad in rags, and endeavor to hide
themselves when you approach, left: their naked
ness should appear. Poverty is to be i'een in all
tliey poflefs ; viewtheit bedding in a cold winter's
evening, blefe me ! how would a rich man's chil
dren deep under such flight covering ? View their
table when set with their best tiiflies, how would
the heart of a full fed man ache to be obliged to
take up with such fare i
44 The heart that melts at other's wo?',
44 ShaK find each felfifh sorrow less ;
44 The mind, that happiness brftows,
44 Refle&ed happiness (hall bless.'i
LONDON.
FURTHER ACCOUNT OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF FRANCE.
WHEN the Hotel de Villc was plundered on
Monday, the women, who were the full to
force it open, found means in the course of the
short time they were there, to plunder the Trea
furyCheftof 200,000 livres ; half of which being
in bills, was afterwards recovered, the reft was
divided among the plunderers. This forcible
entrance was fortunately made so early in the
morning that none of tlie Magistrates were as
sembled; they might othervcilc have probably
been conducted to the gallows, which had been
erected very early in the morning to be ready on
any occasion.
Though the national guard was aflembled be
fore the Mansion House in great numbers at the
time it was forced, they did not offer to make the
leall resistance to the women, but fuffered them
to plunder, while they looked 011 as unconcerned
spectators. Besides the money, it was here the
women furnifhed themselves with the fire arms;
and weapons, with which they afterwards march
ed to Versailles.
Some of the populace headed by the women,
attempted to set fire to the Hotel de Ville ; the
intended conflagration was, however, prevented
by a youth who, at the imminent hazard of his.
life rushed forwards, and in a molt furprifirtg
manner extinguished the flame which had juf'c
caught the building.—On being desired by some:
Members of the National Assembly to demand a
reward for his services and intrepidity, he nobly
refufed all pecuniary com penfation, and request
ed only that he might have the honor of having
his name enrolled in the Paris militia.
[We have given various accounts of the late Com
motions at Versailles : The following appears
to be wrote with candor ; and if true, thetran
fadtion which it relates, turns out to be an ac
cidental bulinefs, rather than a precipitate de
velopement of a deep-laid design to defeat the
patriotic plans of the National Aflembly—and
restore the government of France to its former
despotic state.]
The following account of what pafled at the En
tertainment given by the Life Guards to the
Flanders regiment, may be depended upon, as
it is given by an officer who was one of the
guests ;
" The Life Guards sent invitations not only to
the officers of the Regiment de Flandre, and of
the Regiment de Montmorency (dragoons) but
alfoto those of the Versailles militia. The tables
were spread on the stage of the Opera house inthe palace. While the gueils were at table, the
officer who far at the head of it, informed the
company that his Majesty hearing that his guards
were to hive the honor of entertainingtlie officers
of the different military corps at Versailles, had
hunted the day before, and ordered that as much
of the game that had been killed, as might be
thought Sufficient, fhonld be sent in his name to his
guards, to enable them the better to entertain
their guests. That part therefore of the enter
tainment he said they owed to his Majesty's boun
ty. This was conlidered by the whole company
as a mark of amiable condescension in bis Majesty,
for which they expretfed their grateful acknow
ledgments. Several loyal and patriotic toalls
■were given, and at the head of them, the King—
the Queen —the Dauphin—the Nation.
" Many jovial songs were sung, and the com
pany were juli on the point of breaking up in good
humor, extremely Satisfied with their entertain
ment, and without faying a word about politics,
or. public n(Fairs, when the King, the Queen, and
the Dauphin, made their appearance in the am
phitheatre, in one of the boxes, with a view to
enjoy the novel fight of a repas mi/itaire.
" Asi'oonasthe company perceived the Royal
Visitors, who had thus honored them with their
presence. Count d'Eftaing, the Marquis deLufig
nan, and Count de Montmorency, advanced all
three to the front of the Itage, each with abump
er in h's hand, and bowing most refpecftfully to
their Majesties and the Dauphin, drank off their
glafles, without faying any thing, and leaving it
to theirMajefties toguefs from thecircutnftances,
that those three noblemen had done thetnfelves
the honor of drinking their Majesties health,and
that of the Heir Apparent.
" The other guests, however, were not silent
they Ihouted applaule, and made the theatre ring
with repeated cries of Vive le Roi—Vive la Reine
Vive !c Dauphin.
" Upon t his, foine of the young officers taking
a bottle of wine and a glass, leaped over the 01"
cheftra, climbed tip into the boxes, and approach
ing the King, humbly entreated his Majesty to do
them the honor of taking a glass of wine. The
King took the glass with great complacency, and
bowed graciously to the company, drank to the
health of all present. The lhouts of Vive le Roi
were then renewed—and thpn it was the mulic
Struck up,
Oli " ifhari!—Oli mnn Roi !"
" The Queen's sensibility was affected by all
these circnmftances,and fheburft into tears. Upon
this his Majesty taking her with one hand, and his
son with the other, immediately withdrew—a
crowd of officers got round him, and attended
him to the door of the royal apartment.
" It was after that, the officers pulled the Na
tional cockades from their hats—but so little was
this preconcerted or forefeen, that very few of
them could at that time procure black cockades
to replace them."
On Monday His Excellency the French Ambas
sador received an express from Paris, to acquaint
him that the reports of Several Noblemen havinr
been killed, were wholly untrue. It likewise
makes mention, that the city of Paris was tolera
bly qnie. all Thursday, ow'ing partly to a consi
derable arrival of corn in the morning, which
had given the people great Every
neceflary precaution is likewise taken to prevent
an infurrecftion, by a double guard being placed
all over the city.
The Servants of Paris have resolved to raise for
the public use, the Sum of one million of livres
or about forty thousand guineas.
Letters from Paris, received on Thursday, state
that Count d'Eftaing and the Duke of Brifack
have been arrested.
F.xtrafl of a letter Jrotn Vienna, August i 9.
" Letters from Conftantinopleofthe Btli of Tulv
mention the efcapeof a Chevalier Lombard, who
was taken by the Turks in the beginning of the
war, and the Potte being informed of the value
set on his abilities by Ruflia, have conftantlv re
fll fed every offer of ransom made by the court of
Peterfburgh for that officer. His escape has so irri
tated the Porte, that they have banished the Ter
zana-Emifti, who is accused of negligence, and
have replaced him by a very a<ftive°aiul rigorous
fuccefTor, who Ims begun-by doubling the chains
of all the Ruffian and Austrian prisoners. It is
even said, that in coiifequence of this event the
Ruffian A mbalfadors, confined in the Seven Tow
ers, has heen shut up closer than before ; but this
report wants confirmation, as other letters from
that place make no mention of that circumstance.
OF SILAS DEAN.
The situation of Silas Dean, at Brtifiels, dur
ing the latter end of the American war, was lit
tle better than starving; for he durst not go to
France, America, nor England, and he declared
that Congress were in his debt sixteen thousand
pounds. His situation in England has been since
worse than in Bruflels, for here he literally ftarv.
Ed, and would have died for want, had notaoen
tieman of fafhion been an eye witness, that he
not only wanted food, but a bed to lie upon. A
eolledtion of about 70 pounds, was then made for
him, and with that supply lie got on ship board,
with an intention to return to America as his der
nier resource. On board this veflel he died.
EXEMPLARY PATRIOTISM.
The pecuniary presents lately made to tlie
French National Assembly have been great,and are
increafingdaily. The Duke of Orleans has given
2,soo,ooolivres; M.Neckar 100,000 livres ; l'Abbe
de S. Non, 4000 livres, one moiety of his abbey ;
M. Nicola,Prefident of the Cliambredes Comptes,
resigned a pension of 10,000 livres, and gave
25,000; M. d? Atigre, a refugee, in England,
100,000 crowns. jhe Invalid guards though
poor, presented 300 livres ; the Canons of St. Gen
vive sent to the mint a silver chandelier, thefin
neft, perhaps, in France, its weight 248 marks,
of 8 ounces each. The Company of Booksellers
gave 20,000 livres ; the Patriotic Society of Ver
sailles gave 88,000 livres ; A private soldier of
the Paris militia 318; M. Tvigaud, 1000 ; the pu
pils of an Accadeiny, 1400. &c. A lady of easy
virtue, sent i2,ooolivres, with tliefollowing note,
" Gentlemen, 1 have a heart formed for love. J
have realized the inclosed by my amours, and I
remit it to you as an offering to my country. May
my example be followed bv my companions of a l l
chifles. At Havre, the citizens have presented all
their silver buckles, &c. the Governor his plate:
M. Rial, plate to the amount of 1 j,OOO livres, also
a remittance of 10,000 livres. These facrifices
with what will follow, mull soon make the trea
sury of France refpeiftable.
What would the imperious "tyrant Louis XIV.
fay, could he review, and behold his proud palace
of Versailles guaided byfimple citizens in pluin
coats ? Such is the present state of the fucceilor
of this immortal man.
Among the humbugs of the day, is that of a man
refidingln a well known public square, pretend
ing to poflefs an art, unconnected with animal
magnetism, electricity, or any other science yet
made public, but an art which he will not name,
and to teach which he notwithstanding has the
modesty to demand 110 less a sum than anhundred
guineas. Yet, strange to tell, among his pupils
are the dutchefs of Uevonfhire, countess of Har
rington, Lord Rivers, and many of the members
of both houses of parliament !
STOCK HOL M, Sept. 15.
Accounts were received here this morning, that
the King of Sweden had quitted the neighborhood
of Hogfors, and fallen back tothe frontiers of his
own dominions. The Ruffians attempted to cut
off the Swedilh garrison in their retreat; in which
they would probably have succeeded, had it not
been for the spirited efforts of a battalion of the
Weft Gotha-Dal Regiment, who prevented the
landing of the enemy's troops that had been em
barked in thirteen gallies with a view to make a
descent at foine distance from that fortrefs.
PARIS, October 6.
Est ran of a letter from Havre de Grace 0(1. 14.
" Among other means of throwing silver into
the hands of Government, we are called upon by
the city ntagillrates to offer our silver buckles ;
crouds are from morning to night at the town
house, making a patriotick exchange of silver
buckles for lhings or metal buckles. The Go
vernor has sent to Paris his plate. Mr. Rial of
the house of Guerard Rial and Co. has done the
fame to the amount of 1 y.oool, accompanied by re
mittances of io,oocl. as a free gift. Le Corps des
Negoiants in Havre have come to a resolution of
immediately paying the 25 percent, of their in
come taxed by the Assembly, instead of waiting
the eighteen months allowed.
UNITED STATES.
AUGUSTA, Octoser 17.
Colonel Irwin, of Washington county, has in
formed government, that Mr. Jaffoldhad remov
ed from his place near Longßuffon the 30th ult.
when it was found that the treaty had failed.
That the Indians had returned, and crofled over
on this fide the Oconee, and on the jth instant
burnt his house, and carried off fonie corn. The
people at Capt. Kemp's fort being alarmed at this
ami there appearing muck lign in the neighbor!
hood, they evacuated it on the 9th, and the Indi
ansburnt it on the 10th. The Colonel further
represents that the people are much in perplexity
between the danger to which their families are
exposed, and the importance of favinjr their lit
tle crops, what Iteps to take.
Oct. 24. The weather has been moll uncom
monly levere for the season for some days past-
On Thursday and Friday mornings, it had froze to
that degree, that the ice was about the thickness
ot a dollar.
Nov. 14. On Monday lad the Senate proceed
wnr'l r'ir 1 "' 1 rr° Vnle SOr a Governor , "'hen Ed
ward TeHair, Esq. was uuanimoufly chosen to that
important ofhee.
c H A II L E S T O N, Nov 2 9
Thursday lalt was observed in this city as a day
of pubnc thanksgiving, agreeably to the Procla-
mation of the PrefiJent of the United Stat
There was every where a total suspension o ft 7
ness, and a general resort ofthe jnlwK- l "
the different churches, where divine (eSc"' 8 ' a
performedni the forenoon, and the feve',!' 5
nifters, with pious energy, endeavored to m L'f
the minds ot t heir audience with devour 1 .
to the almighty ruler of nations, for
munificence conferred on the peopl- of Al " ,e
in trinmphantly bringing then?,
and unequalled contelt, to victory and peace
pern,itt.ng then, peaceably to adopt a Confth,?
tion of government, calculated to feeurer'"l
and religious freedom-and exhorted them'T
«ue obedience to our excellent laws, and to tV'
precepts o chnftiamty, asthe proper foundat „n
of national prosperity and individual happing
' WILMINGTON, (Delaware) Nov. 27.
Yesterday the 26th inft. bein<r the div
ed by thePrefident (and great bene,aaorfof'the
United States, by his Proclamation, and alfoan
proved and recommended by the President of
t his State as a day of thanksgiving to our Supreme
Cre ator,for the many peculiar aclsof divine grace
in favorr of this country, not only in
struggle for our freedom, bu: in his happyi„ te
ference iu procuring usaConftitutionoflawsand
government that we may live happy under and
future generations will boast of—l am hnppv m
fay that the inhabitants of this borough may be
truly termed federaltfts, from their ftrift auen
tion to the fir It requcft of the Supreme Executive
of the United States, by (hutting up their houses
and retiring from all kind of worldly pursuits'
and attending divine fei vice and thanksgiving'
The day being very wet and bad, those whocould
not attend public worship held it in their cham
bers, with every becoming reverence for so <neat
and important a day.
PHILADELPHIA, Dec.
Ext raft of a letterfrom a gentleman in New-Jerfcj,
vjho t)as lately returned from an excurfieri to the
We fern Country, to his friend in this city, datti
November 10 th.
" Th e design of this letter is to give a short
account of the riling of the waters in Lake
Ontario, which, from their continual advances,
have alarmed the inhabitants around its borders
to a great degree, Several buildings which stood
at a convenient distance from its ancient bounda
ries, now Hand seven feet in the water. All the
low meadows made round about it, are now part
of the lake, and roads where cattle, horses and
men travelled 18 months ago, are now only pal
fable tor boats. The last information I had, was
from a man of integrity, who receives letters
from his son at Niagara upon this fubjeit. In his
last letter he informed him, that a brew lioufe
which stood on the bank ot the Lake is now render
ed useless, from its second story being under
water.
''I have supposed that the waters of Lake Erie,
(which lie near three hundred feet above those
ot Ontario) have founded a pafTage among the
rocks under ground to the Lake of Ontario. If
this should be the cafe, the waters of Ontario
will rife to a level with those of Lake Erie."
DECEMBER 8.
The Convention for altering and amending
the Conftituiion of this State, now fitting in this
city, in a committee of the whole house on Fri
day last, came to a resolution to this erteift—■
" That the Executive Department, intheConfti
:ution of this State, requires alteration, so that
the executive power should be vested in one per-
I'on, fubjetftto proper exceptions."
Extrafl of a letter from Norfolk, November 2;,
" This day arrived from London, at Lindfay's
Hotel, Thomas Jeffsrson, Lfq; our late Am
baflador at theCourtof Versailles, and now Se
ctary of State,to the United States of America."
PROVIDENCE, November 28.
Thursday last was observed as a day of folenm
thanksgiving and prayer throughout this State.
AMERICAN MANUFACTURES.
Wednesday last, being the anniversary of St.
Catherine, patroness of rope-makers, this tu
tular Saint was duly honored by her industrious
votaries—ln the morning was completed, at
MeflVs. Jones' rope-walk,"in this town, and de
livered in the afternoon, a 14 inch Cable for
the Ship Washington, bound for India, being
the largest she carries. The fabric is excellent,
and equal to any manufactured in Europe. It
measures 120 fathoms, and weighed 49 Cwt.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
A circumstance that evinces the popularity
of the abolition of the Slave-Trade in England
—Watch-Seals are made there with the following
device : An African in the posture of kneeling,
and in Chains, encircled with this Motto, d»i
not a Man and a Brother ?
BOSTON, December 2.'
Yesterday, the firft Federal Court of
setts tliftricft, was by law opened in this town be
fore the Hon. Judge Lowell. After the nece>-
iary oaths were administered to the AttorneyMarshal, and Clerk, the Rev. Dr. St it lm an ad
dreflcd the Throne of Grace in a well-adapted
prayer. There being no bufmefs before the Court
it was adjourned according to law.
toil THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATUS.
THE GUEST. No. IV.
Srill to their solid interest blind,
The whims of fafhion jule mankind.
FASHION is afubject offo various a complex
ion,. that it is extremely difficult to give a
definition of it, that will leave any precise idea 011
the mind: Should we attempt to trace its fluctua
tions through different periods, remote from the
present, and bring our enquiries down to modern
times, we shall find ourselves involved in a circle
and be continually returning to the fame, orfim
ilar whims, and abfurditics.
So capricious and tyrannical is this fovereio-n
director of the world, that alsnoit every person in
the course of their life, upon the principles of lelf
defence, are necessitated to rebel against its pow.
er—to reject itscontroul, and fooneror later iro
■vern themselves, and adjult their dress and de
portment by the light of their own reason : For
experience teaches the reflecting mind, that life is
not more than competent to far better engage
ments, than wafting our time t in facrificing at an
altar erected by the molt frivolous part of man.
.kind.
A slave to fafhion isainoft paflive animal—it is
acted upon by an agent more fickle than the wind
—and it it can be laid to have a mind, it is apily
described in the following lines,
" Dull is lighter than a leather,
" And the wind, more light than cither;
'• But a foppifh, fickle mind,
" Is lighter far than feather, dud or wind."
The usurpations of fafhion are obvious in every
rank of society : They descend into the humble
abodes of poverty, as well as claim the supreme
direction in the elevated walks of life.
The Buckle that hides the Ihoe, and the coat
without a back, are not confined to any class of
citizens—and fafhion is the word, whether the
cap is made of kenting, or of inuflin at a guinea
a yard.
Following the fafhion, however, is sometimes
attended with disagreeable consequences: Ayoung
man loft the labor of application and attendance
for an eligible situation in an eminent mercantile
house, merely by being two falhionable in his ap
pearance—the principal of the house having turn
ed almost to a Quaker in his dress, observed that
he did not like those knights if the buckl;. And a
very worthy friend of the author's, was prevent
ed from paying his addrefles to a young ladv,
whooblcured her many accomplifhincnts, by dis
covering too strong a propensity to follow the ex
ceiles ol the mode : Amelia, laid he, is a fine fi
gure of a woman—her countcnanre is lovely, and
jae has an ingenious, sprightly mind—but, I can
not suppose that a husband, children, or family,
will ever be offo much confequenee to her, as
the ornamenting her person, and always appear
ing as a model to the falhionable world but the
expencc ! ah, there's the rub ! the Indies have
been drained to fatisfy the cravings of falhion
and still flie cries for more !—' For though nature
is contented with little— yet fancy is boundless.'
The folio-wing Ohfsrvations on the great importance,
and utility of Newspapers, are extra (led from
the JirJl number of THE WESTERN STAR—
a paper publifoed by Mr. Loring Andrews, at
Stockbridge, MaffachuTi.tls.
IT is owing in a great degree to the want of in
formation, that the people are so often suspi
cious of their rulers, and entertain the idea that
the interest of the people and the interest of the
government is unconnected ; and that the latter
have no object but to aggrandize themselves, ac
quire unlimited power, and lay heavy burdens
upon their constituents, which they themselves
mean not to feel the weight of. Restless and dis
appointed men, out ofotfice, ever propogate such
ideas ; and so long as the people at large, or any
number of then-, ground their opinions npon
verbal reports, they will be likely to remain in
a state of uneafinels with regard to their liberties
and properties. Every man who feels interested
in his own fate, and the fate of his offspring
should search for himself, and instead of
■alking his informant, " Are these things so," he
should apply to the NEWSPAPER, the faithful
register of thetranfactionsof the day ; its pages
teltify concerning public men and public mea
sures. If the rulers of the people act uprightly,
study the interest of their constituents, and con
fillt the good of the great whole, thepeople will
reft fatisfied ; if iliey know it, and the true and
onlyfure channel ihi ough which this information
can be gained, is a NEWSPAPER. If Rulers
err, the peoplefhottld know of their mifcr-nduct,
which will ever be painted in its true colours by
the impartial Editor of a Newspaper, andimpai
tial every Editor ought certainly to be, for,
if patronized by the people, much is entt ulted to
him, felf interest, if no other motive flimulates,
andmuft induce an Editor of a NEWSPAPER to
found an alarm when danger is at hand, for the
deftrucftion of a i ree will be the firft oS-
jecfc with men determined to enslave tlieir fellow
citizens. Such determinations, however, will
never be formed, while the people continue watch
ful of their rights, attentive to the proceedings
of government, and liberal patrons of the arts,
"Among whicha free press holds adiftino-uifli
ed rank." °
FROM THE FEDERAL HERALD.
A HINT to CLERGYMEN.
Extracted from an old London magazine
C
AUTIOUS the man of God his (leps should guide,
Not fway'd by fancy, fafhion, pomp, or pride;
Mild in deportment, affable, discreet(
In language winning, as in manners sweet ;
Not frivolous in speech, not vain or rude,
But even his looks mud fay his heart is good :
Thus by example give his do£li ines force,
And lead, not drive, his flock the Heavenly coutfe.
FROM THE VIRGINIA INDEPENDENT CHRONICLE.
NEGRO'S PRAYER.
T
A HL Poet's Corher in Gazette;
Is often fill'd by some Cdqucttc ;
Or (ap in Hand to do his duty,
Will latirize his female beauty :
But as I now have room to spare,
I'll here inferi a Negro's Pray'r.
I.ORU it thou doll with equal eye,
Sreallthe sons of Adamdic;
\\ hy dolf thou hide thy face from Haves,
Configr.'d by fate to serve the knaves ?
Stolen or fold in Air . a,
Imported to America,
l.ikc hogs orfheep at market fold,
To 11cm the heat or brook the cold,
To work all day and halfthc night.
And rife belore the morning light,
Sustain the lalh, endure the pain.
Expol'd toftoims of snow and rain,
Pinch'd with hunger and with cold.
And if we beg we meet a scold,
Ana after all the tedious round,
At night to ftretcn upon the ground.
Has Heaven decreed that Negroes mud,
By cruel men, bervercurs'd !
Koreverdrag thegallingchain,
And ne'er enjoy themfelvesas men!
When will Jehovah hear our cries!
When will the fun of freedom rife !
When will a Mojis for us stand,
And free us all trom Pharoah's hand !
What tho our (kin be black as jet,
Our hair be curl'd, our noses flat,
Mull we, for this, no freedom have,
Until we find it in the Grave /
NEW-YORK, DECEMBER 12.
The repairs and improvements now carrying
on in this city, are highly honorary to the patri
otifin and public. spirit of the citizens at large,
who cheerfully submit to the heavy contributions
neceflary to defray such expences—at the fame
time they evince that our civil officers are actuated
by a laudable zeal for the conveniency of the in
habitants, and the dignity of the Seat of our Na
tional Government.
As the hopes of the pajjing age are always on the
rising generation, it is a fubjeft of serious impor
tance that they fliould enjoy such advantages in
point of education, as will uflier them into life,
so accompliffied, as that they may excel, if possi
ble, their predeceflors, in every attainment that
may conduce to their pcrfonal happiness, and the
public prosperity.
This city is now the Seat of the National Go
vernment —every wife and benevolent inflitution
fliould be cftabliflied, which may tend to procras
tinate the period, when it may bethought neces
sary to take another residence. Perhaps nj city
can boalt a superior police—flill the power of
prejudice may sometimes prove paramount to le
gal reflraints—but however flrong the force of
habit may be, there is one plan that may be adopt
ed,which will in it's effeifts, contiibute to the most
cordial acquiescence in every wife and salutary
public regulation ,• and that is, the inflitution of
public schools, at the public expence, to which
all ranks and denominations of children may
have free access : Againfl such an inflitution it is
notpollible that a prejudice can exist in the mind
of any man, who ever felt a spark of benevolence
towards his fellow creatures. What are all the
external ornaments that art can bestow to embel
lish a city, compared with the beauties of a well
regulated Society ! Peace and good order are the
attendants on knowledge and information More
than half the evils we fuffer spring from ignor
ance. The great body of citizens is formed of
the middling and lower clafles of people : Let
them be inspired with high notions of freedom,
and at the fame time be kept in ignorance—and
the work of government will be rendered an at*
duous, and difficult talk—it will be utterly im-
to maintain peace and good order, with
out being tyrannical—but if to tiie bleflings of
freedom, you add those of education, submission
to government will be the result of sentiment—
the people, imderftanding their true interests,
will fee that liberty and licentiousness are diftintft
ideas—and that the security of freedom consists in
obedience to the laws. When the public tran
quility is founded on tlicfe principles, it is not lia
ble to shocks and fluctuations—every resident is
inspired with confidence in his personal security
the administration of public business is prose
cuted with spirit and dignity—commerce and arts
flourifh, and the whole face of affairs aflumes a
pleasing and encouraging afpert. Expence in
curred on such an occasion, is the most provident
economy.
In the late commotion at Kartinico, a regiment
of Mohittoes remained attached to the Governor.
One of their officers having infultcd a citizen, be
cause he wore a national cockade, the yellow
gentleman wa« taken by tliepopulace, and hanged
at the gates of the Government lioufe.
The principal planters in the .State of Georgia
have eftabliffied a society for promoting agricul
ture, and other rural concerns. Every nijiitu
tionofthis kind has an auspicious afpefl on the be ft in
terests of o'ir country : Societiei formed in the extreme
parts of the Union will have opportunities of exploring
the particular capacities of the foils under different cli
mates, and more effeCluatly ajcertain the rcfources
which we enjoy, or may create among otirfelves, to
sup port er extend the blessings of Independence.
It having been mentioned in one of the papers
of this city that the " Beacon, or Light" at the
entrance of Befton harbor was blown down, in a
lateltorm,it appears proper to correcfl the miltake.
Not the Light-House, which is built of (tone, and
founded on a rock, ,but limply a wooden beacon,
which flood on a spit of sand, that is covcred at
high water, was blown down. This the Gover
nor has ordered to be replaced immediately.
The Secretary of the Treaj'ury—the Comptroller—
the Regifler—and the Auditor have removed their of
fices from Broad Way, to the corner of Dock a:i d
Broad Streets, mar the Exchange.
ADVERTISEMENT.
EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE OHIO COMPANY.
W'HEREAS, in the opinion of the Agents, it is very much
for the intercft of the proprietors at large, that all the
lands of the purchase (hould be divided and allotted as immedi
a l!v as may be And in ofder to accommodate them generally,
by the option of classing as they may think prot>cr, and duwing
their rights or (hares (where they may possess more than one)
either together in contiguity, or by detaching and annexing them
to diftmft classes or divisions (at their own election) to give them
the greaterchance for variety in foil and fituation—lt isunani
moufly resolved.That as foonas the exploring committee shall have
appropriated the lands foi donation settlements.in quantity fuffici
ent for all the proprietors, Wi nth io? Sa* cen t.Jose ph Gili
man, and Ritokk J. Meigs, Esquires, whoare hereby appoint
ed a committee lor that purpofe,fhall iinmectately makeout,upon
a large scale.a completeinap or plan of the whole purchase from the
befl information,which they mav be then able to obtain,expreffin"-
all the lands ot the eight acre, three acre, city lots and
one hundred and fixry acre, and donation lots, the reserved lots
of Congress, school lots, and lots appropriated for religious pur
poses—also, the two townships given by Congress fbr an universi
ty.and the towns or situations for towns to be reserved by the com
pany for a future allotment.—That, all the residuary lands (hall
be, by them, the said committee of three, divided and numbered
upon paper, into forty equal gtand divisions of twenty-five (hare*
each, as like in quality as may be: That each grand division be
divided into five sub-divisions of five (hares each, and each sub
division into feftions of finglc (hares 'That as soon as the map
or plan is completed, the agents will foim or class their fubferib
ers (who (hall not previously class themselves) by feftions or single
(hares, into sub-divisions of five, and grand divisions of twenty
five, and immediately proceed to drawing Jiy lot for said lands
by grand divisions, sub-divisions and feftions : That in all
draughts of fub-divifions(into feftions) which may be madeup of
proprietors,holding four.three, 01 two and fmgle (hares,it (hall be
the usage tor the greatest propuetot, or holder of the grcateft
number of (hares, to Lake his lands in contiguity, by lot, either in
the foulhern or northern part of the sub-division, where thev (halt
be numbered from north to Couth, and in the western or eaftcru
(by lot also) where they may be numbered from weft to east ; and
where sub-divisions may be made upof two proprietors of two
(hares each, and one of one (hare, the two greatest proprie
tors (hall receive their feftions, by lot, either in the southern or
western part of the sub-division. Refolded, That the before na
med committee, be directed to prepare the names and numbers
and make all the neceflary arrangements for the intended draught "
That previous to the drawing for this ultimate grand division of
lands, there (hall be"returns of the proprietors, as they may be
claffcd by the agents (orotherwi(e) lodged in the Secretary's office
and it is recommended in all cases to consult the inclinations and
interests of the proprietors in the order of classing.
Rejolvcd, That the agents will give public notice of the time and
pliiceof drawing, and that there be two perfonsno ways interelt
ed in the draughts, who (hall be sworn to the faithfully drawing
out the names and numbers from the boxes, and who alone (hall
be employed in this business for the draught of grand divisions
sub-divisions. and feftions.
Refo/ved, That th'.- Secretary cause the foregoing resolutions to
be publiffied in the uewfpapers of New-York, and the New-
England States ; to the end that the proprietors at large may have
the option of classing themselves as they may think proper • And
they are hereby requested lo to do, and to expreft themfelv- s
upon thisfuhjeel, either to their refpeftive agents, or by iflforma
tion in writing addressed to, and to be lodged with the Secretary
a ,lls office in the city of Marietta.previous to the firftMondayof
March, 1790— Upon which day it is expected the division will
l »kc placc. WINTHROP SARGENT,
... , Secretary to the Ohio Ccrniar',.
Marietta, $a Aovemhr f 1789.MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER XX.
Amsterdam, Oct. 26, 1780.
SIR,
QUESTION twentieth.—" Have there not been
, different opinions in Congress, with regard to
" this (i. e. topropofats appearing fair, which were
" not Jo,) Jrom whence animojities have arisen ?"
There Jias never been any difference of fenti
menc in Congress, since the declaration of In
dependency, concerning any proposals of recon
ciliation. There have been no proposals of re
conciliation made lincc the 4th of July, 1776,
excepting twice.
The fir It was made by Lord Howe, who, together
with his brother, the General, were appointed
by the King, commiflioners for some purpose or
other. The public has never been informed what
powers they had. Lord Howe lent a meflage by
General Sullivan to Congress, desiring a confer
ence with some of" its members. There were
different sentiments concerning the propriety of
fending any members, until we knew his lord,
fliip's powers. A majority decided to fend, Dr.
Franklin, Mr. John Adaius, and Mr. Rutledge,
were sent. Upon their report, there was a pcr
feift unanimity of fentinient in Congress.
The second was the million of Lord Carlisle,
Governor Johnfton, and Mr. Eden, in 1778.
Upon this occasion again there was a perfedl un
animity in Congress.
Before the declaration of Independency, Lord
North moved several conciliatory proportions in
parliament, in which a good deal of art was em
ployed to seduce, deceive, and divide. But there
was always an unanimity in Congress upon all
these plans.
There was different opinions concerning the
petition to the King, in the year 1 775 ; and be
fore that, concerning the non-exportation agree
ment. There have been different opinions con
cerning articles of the confederation ; concern
ing the bell plans for the condtul of the war ;
concerning the best officers to conduct them ;
concerning territorial controversies between par
ticular States, &c. but these differences of opinion,
which are cflential to all assemblies, have never
caused greater animosities than those which arise
in all aflemblies, where there is freedom of
debate.
I have the honor to be,
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
LETTER, XXI.
Amsterdam, October 27, 1780.
S 1 R,
QUESTION twenty-firft.—" Are there no mal
, " contents in America, again/} the government,
" ■ who are otherwise much inclined for the American
" catfe, who may force the nation, or Congress, a
" £ a '"ft 'h'tr resolutions and interejts, to conclude a
" peace ?"
There is no party formed in any of the Thirteen
States against the new conftittnion, nor any op
position against the government, that I have ever
heard of, excepting in Pennfylvania,and in North-
Carolina. These by no means deserve to be coin
pared together.
In Pennsylvania there is a refpedtable body of
people, who arc zealous against Great-Britain,
but yet wish for some alterations in their new
form of government : yet this docs not appear
to weaken their exertions ; it seems rather to
exite an emulation in the two parties, and to in
crease their efforts.
I have before explained the hiltory of the rife
and progress of the party, in North-Carolina, con
lifting of Regulators and Scotch Highlanders ;
and General Howe has informed you of their
fate. This party has ever appeared to make
North-Carolina more staunch and decided, instead
of weakening it.
The party in Pennsylvania will never have an
inclination to force the Congress, against their
interests, to make peace ; nor would they have
the power, if they had the will.
The party in North-Carolina, whose inclinati
on cannot be doubted, is tooinconfiderableto do
any thing.
I have the honor to be,
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
ABSTRACT of JOURNAL of the first SESSION
of the SENATE oj the UNITED STATES.
T H U 11 S D A Y, June 4, 1789.
ON the report ofthe committee appointed the
3d June, to confjder the mode of commu
nicating the aAs of Congress to the several States
ill the Union—
Resolved, That in ten days after the passing
of every ac f t of Congress during tlieprefent fef
ilon, or until some other regulation shall bea
dopted, twenty-two printed copies thereof, lign
ed by the Secretary of the Senate, and Clerk of
the House of Beprefentatives, and certified by,
them to be true copies of the original ast, be
lodged with the President of the United States,
and that he be requested to caufeto be rranfinit
ted, two of the said copies so attested as afore
faid, to each of the Supreme Executives in the
ieveral States.
FRIDAY, June j.
A mefTage from the House of Representatives,
by Mr. Beckley, their Clerk—who informed the
Senate of the concurrence of the House oil the
refolutionof the 4th June, upon the mode of com
municating the acts of Congress to the Executives
of the several States in the Union. Adjourned.
MONDAY, June 8.
" In the House of Representatives of the U
nitcd States, Thursday, the 28th of May, 1789.
" On motion, Resolved, That every such mem
ber of the present Congress, as is not yet fur
nifhedwitha set of the journals of the late Con
gress, lhall on application to the keeper of the
records and papers of the said late Congress, be
entitled to receive a complete set of such journals,
" Extract from the journal,
John Beckley, Clerk.
Read and concurred, and the Secretary car
ried a mellage to the House of Representatives
accordingly. Adjourned.
F R j D A Y, June 12,
Mr. Lee, in behalf of the committee therefot
appointed, reported " a bill to establish the ju
dicial courts of the United States," which was
read the firft time, and Monday, the 22dofJune,
was alfigned for the second reading.
Ordered, That Mr. Butler be added to the
committee, appointed " Toconftder and report
a bill defining the crimes and offences that shall
be cognizable under the authority of the United
States, and their punishment." Adjourned.
WEDNESDAY, June 17.
Ordered, that a committee, to confiit of Mr.
Butler, Mr. Morris, Mr. Langdon, Mr. Dalton
and Mr. Lee, be appointed to arrange and brine
forward afyftem, for the regulation of the trade
and intercourse between the United States and the
territory of other powers in North-America, and
the Welt-Indies, so as to place the fame on a
more beneficial footing.
The committee appointed May the 9th, to view
the rooms in the city-hall, and to confer with a
committee of the House of Representatives ap
pointed for that purpose, reported : Ordered,
That the report lie for consideration.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, June 19.
The committee appointed May 9th, to view the
rooms in the city-hail, and to confer with a com
mittee of the House of Representatives appoint
ed for that purpose, reported in part—
That the two rooms on the firft floor in the
south-west angle of the taid hall, are not neces
sary for the accommodation of Congress, and
that the Mayor of the city be notified thereof,
that the said rooms maybe occupied by such per
sons as the corporation may employ to take charsre
of the building.
Read and accepted, and sent to the House of
Representatives for concurrence. Adjourned.
WE D NES DA Y, June 24.
A meflage from the House of Representatives,
by Mr. Beckley their Clerk ; who brought to'
the Senate, the coucurrence of the House, upon
the report of a committee appointed May the 9 th,
to view the rooms in the city hall ; and a bill!
entitled, " An ast for eftablilhing an Executive
Department, to be denominated the Department
of Foreign Affairs," which had parted the House
of Representatives, and to which the concur
rence of the Senate was desired. Adjourned
THURSDAY, June 2;.
The Senate proceeded to the consideration of
a bill, entitled, " An ast for establishing an Ex
ecutive Department, to be denominated the De
partment of Foreign Affairs," which was read
the firft: time, and ordered to lie for consideration.
Proceeded in the second reading, " A bill to
eflablifh the Judicial Courtsof the United States,"
and after debate—Adjourned.
MONDAY, June 29.
The bill, entitled " An act for laying a duty
on goods, wares and merchandize imported into
the United States," was carried to the House of
Representatives, with amendments as agreed to
on the 27th. Adjourned.
(To be continued.)
The following jhort account of the Palace of the
THUILLERIES, may amuji ftme of our readers,
THIS palace is so called, becaule built in a
place where tiles were formerly made.
It was begun in 155 4, by order of Catherine
de Medicis.—Henry IV finiflied it in 1600—
Lewis XIV carried it to perfection, and -rave it
all the beauty that is remarked in all its elegant
apartments. b
It is compofedof five pavilions, and four bo
dies of lodging rooms, in which the architecture
is admired, tho differently executed.—The sculp
ture is by the principal mailers.—The whole is
bmh upon a right line about 170 fathoms lono-.
[ lie large pavilion in the centre is adorned with
columns of marble.
In the infUc of the palace many things a le to
be observed. In the lung's great apar u,e„t the
niuit celebrated painters ot the 16th century emu
lated each other, under the conduct of Le'Bru •
The cielings are adorned with reprefe,nations
of armies, battles, and a great variety of allejo
rical figures, in painting, itucco, ami fculptme
1 he cieling of the gallery of the amballkdors
is much admired;it is copied after the Karnefiau
Gallery at Rome—painted byANNiBAt.CAR RACCI
The Theatre is one of the most (biking objects
that one hnds in the palace of the Thuilleries •
The grandeur, the difpofirion, and the riches of
it are all offurprizing beauty : It will hold debt
thousand persons, and all he commodtoufly seated"
The ceiling was painted by Covpel, after the
Cartoons of Le Bkun.
This palace has been neglected till within a few
years, when the present Queen had some oftlw
apartments fitted up in elegant taste, for her own
particular accommodation.
Some account of the gardens ofth: 7l:iiU;rtts in cur
next.
EXTRACTS.
was never a friend to the love ofGod,or
A man, toduty, or conscience, truth,probity,or
honor : It therefore can never make a good fub
jea, a good citizen, or a good soldier, and least
of all agoodcliriftian.
The world has substituted good manners in the
place of good nature : Whoever conforms to the
former, is dispensed with from any observance of
the latter.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
DECEMBER 12. Dollars at Bs.
TAMAICA Spirits,
J Antigua Rum, 4J9. "
St. Croix, do. 4/8.
Country, do. vfia.
Molasses, 2/6. a tfj.
Brandy, 5/9. a 6/
Geneva, 5 f
Do. in cases, iif a 2gf.
Muscovado Sugar, 80s. a 7if.
Loaf, do. I^3.
Lump, do. 1/1
Pc PP". 3f 3
Pimento, 1/9. aif
Coffee, 1/8. a ljg.
Indigo, (Carolina) if a 61.
Do. French, 18f.
Rice, 22f.
Superfine Flour, 4sf.
Common do. 4if
Rye do. 25/
Indian Meal, 18f.
Rye. P r - bvfh
Corn, (Southern) 4f.
(Northern,) 4/3. „4 /b
Beef, firft quality, « 48/
Pork, firft quality, 70s. a 75/
Oats, 1/7.
zt!" C ~u', 5 f 6 " 5 /9-
Miip bread per cwt. 21^
Country refined > ,
bar-iron, J 281. a 301.
Do. bloomery, 251. a 261.
Swedes do. 45 1.
Ruflia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 lof. a gl.
German steel, per lb. gi.
Nails American, by calk. ) .
per. lb. 4 d. \H d
Do. do. do. 6d. 12J.
Do. do. do. Bd. gld.
Do. do. do. rod. "S
Do. do. do- i2d.( . , ,
Do. do. do. 2od.r' * *
Do. do. do, 2 4 d.)
Pot alh, per ton, 391. a 401.
Pearl alh, 481 a 5 01.
Bees-wax per ib. 2/3.
Mackaiel per barr. 26/ a 30/
Herring!, 18f
Mahogany, Jamaica, ) ,
per foot, J 10a -
Dominico, do. 9d.
Honduras, do. 7d.
Logwood unchipped, >
per ton. J 8I -
Do. chipped. i 4 l.
2 inch white oak ) , r
plank, perm. $ ' 10f
-1 inch do. 51.
2 inch white pine planlc, 81.
i j inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 31. 10f.
2 inch pitch pine do. iol.
inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 41.
Pitch pine scantling, 31. Bf
Cyprus 2 feet shingles, il. lof
Do. 22 inch do. il. 8f
Cedar 2 inch do. il. iof
advertisement. ,
C=T THE Gazette of the United Stqtes circulates in ep£ryfi artt J
the Union—being honored by JukJcribers in Georgia, South and Nort'i
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennj\!vania, New-Jew)'*
New-York, Connecticut, Rhode-Island, Maffachvfetts, New-Hamffiirt,
and DijlriEl of Maine, Canada, Europe, and the Wejt Indies. This a
ten five circulation renders it a proper vehicle for Advertisements
of a. general, commercial and governmental import: —By the pdrttcuUf
deftre and advice, therefore, oj a number of its patrons, thispapcf
will be open for the reception of advertisements of the above defcriptwy
which as they will convey intelligence of an inter efting nature, the ■ '
tor hopes their infer lion will meet the approbation of his frtevds j*
general. Should the number at any time amount to more than ap a s e 1,1
the Gazette, they will be given in a Supplement. f£\KC
New-York, Nov. pB. 1780.
, . MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS which have apfetrei irlhi
,zettei are part of a series, 26 in number, by Exccllw^
Holland—the whole are published in a pamphlet of 64 p a g ei ; a ' u , .
to be fold by Mejfrs. Bcrrv & Rogers, Hanover-Square, Mr. Ko 1
Hodge, Queen-Street, and by the Editor hereof
Publifkedby JOHN FENNO, No. 9, MaideS;
Lane, ncaftheOfmego-Markit, New-York. —[3
Do. 22 inch do. iJ. 6j.
Do. jB. inch do. 18f
Butt white oak Haves,
Pipe do. do. 91.
Hogftiead do. do. 61. 10f.
Do. do; heading, 8!.
Irilh barrel do. Aaves, 31.
Hogshead red oak do. 51. $j.
Do. French do. 51.
Hogshead hoops, 41.
White oak square umber)
per iquare loot, u
Red wood, per too, 281.
Fuftick, 101.
Beaver, per lb.
Otter per {kin, gf. 32f.
Grey fox, 4/7.
Martin, 4JIQ.
Racoon, 3J6 a 7/6.
Mufkrat, \cd.a\\<j.
Beaver hats, 64/.
Caflor do. 48f.
Chocolate, 14 d.
Cocoa, 70s. ti 80s.
Cotton, \fg.
Tar, pr. bar. 18/.
Pitch, 16/.
Turpentine, i6f.
Tobacco, James River, 4d.asd.
Do. Yoik, 4d. a 3Ja.
Do. Rappahanock, 2d a
Do. Maryland, coloured,
Do. Western-shore, 2d a 354.
Lead in pigs, prewt. 6of.
Do. bars, 68f.
Do. Shot, 68/
Rrd lead,
White do. dry, 9sf.
White do. in oil, $/. 12f.
Salt-petre hams, 7%d.
Spermaceti candles,
Mould do. 11 d. aif
Tallow dipt, 9\d.
Soap, d. a Bd.
Caltilr soap, gd. & 1 ®d.
English cheese, pr. lb.
Country do. $d.
Butter, if.
Hyson tea, 11f. a 1 zf.
Sequin do. 6/6.
Bohea do. 2/5.
Ginseng, 3fa 4 /<5.
Starch Poland, yd.
Snuff, 2J2.
Allum fait, water ? &
iure, pr. bufll. )
Liverpool do. 2\J.
Madeira wine, ? 60/ a go/.
pr. pipe, S
Port, 46/.
Lifboo, pr. gal.
Teneriff, 4f.
F V»». a/a- ~,
Dutch gun-powder,pr. cwt. <»•
Nail rods, pr. ton, 36/.
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal. 4./- r
Whale do. pr. ha 5°J• a 5 J'
Spermaceti do, 61.
Shake-down hhds. 3/6