[No. LXVIII.j
r"T t,.r t!:< 'I'.ir.l.r, .
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE GUEST. -No. 11.
THE second appearance of the Guest is in a dress, borrow
ed from an ingenious, unknown Correspondent—who ac
companied the favor by the following billet ;
SIR,
IF the enclofd meets your approbation > I may furnijh you with one or
two more Ejjaysfrom the Jam pen. The author is not without a con
sciousness that the character c/Cleander is, in fomedegree, his
own portrait. If the fame confewufnefs Jhonld be awakened in any oj
your numerous readers, they may deriveJome advantagefrom his re
flexions. M.
NEC ASPERA TERRF.NT.
WHOEVER contemplates the various calamities that fill the
world, and the Hill more numerous avenues by which we
are exposed to diilrefs, will be deeply affected with a sense of the
misery of Man. In this survey we need not fcarch for remote and
distant evils ; we need not croud our imaginations with the hor
rors of war—the progress of armies, or the desolation of States :
In the moll familiar walks of lite we may meet with iniferies, at
which humanity mull bleed—scenes of diilrefs lie open on every
fide—every quarter is filled with the groans of the dying, and la
mentations for the dead. In the mass of mankind we can Scarce
ly feleft an individual, in whose bosom there does not rankle un
published griefs ; and could we look into the hearts of the moll
tranquil, we should often find them a prey to unpitied regrets,
torn with anxiety, and bleeding with disappointment.
Retiring from this melancholly fpe£lacle without looking any
further, we might be ready to consider the world as a great nur
sery of disease—a vail receptacle of miferics—filled with beingj
whom Providence has endued with sensibilities to fuffer, rather
than capacities to enjoy : But to him who views the moral influ
ence of afjli&ionSy the evils they are intended to correct, and the
benefits they import, they will appear in a very different light,
He will consider them as at once the punilhment of vice, and the
cure of it. Sorrow is indeed the offspring of guilt ; but the parent
of wisdom : Stern in her afpe6t, and severe in her deportment, she
is however sent on a meflage of mercy : She is dellined to follow
in the footfleps of temptation—to break her enchantments—to ex
pose her dclufions, and to deliver from thraldom such as are en
tangled in her snares, or are (leeping in her arms. Whoever sur
veys the course of his pall life, with a view to remark the sal/c
Heps hehastaken in it, will find, that as they have proceeded from
indilcretion, they have been recalled by diilrefs.
To every obje£l, our attachment is proportioned to the pleafurej
we have received, or expect to receive from it, and the palfion will
continue to be cherilhed, as long as the recollection of the obje£l«
calls up ideas of pleasure, rather than of pain. Now every viciouj
pursuit is founded in indulgence, and is guided by impulse. Tc
the licentious and abandoned therefore, there is no profpe£l of th<
termination of their vices, till by the attual experience of the mi
series they inflifcl. they eonvcy to the mind more sentiments of a
version than of love. From that moment the enchantment is dif
pelled—the falfe colours are Aripped off,and they will be regarded
as specious deformities, and rrtl dangers. Multitudes who could
ucver be persuaded by the calls of mterell, or thtf voice of convic
tion, to refttiiin the licence of their paflions, and abandon theii
inimical pursuits, have bern reclaimed by the lalh of adversity,
The decays of health—the defcrtion of friends, and the neglect ol
the world, have not ly foftcned those hardier (pints, tc
whom the charms of virtue have been displayed in vain.
Nor isforrow lels eHe£tual in the correction of foibles than the
extinction of vice. Clea .-.of. in other respects a manofvirtuc
and honor, find from his infancy accultomed himfelt to the un
bourided indulgence of his tongue. Upon all occasions, he trod
upon the very brink of decorum. A total ftrzrnger to the delicacy
of friendfhip, which ;'<neioufty hides the faults it can not correal ;
his ridicule was turned on the imperfections of his friends and his
enemies, with ind'feriminate itveritv. The splendor of diftin
guiilicd virtue, which rafts at .a dillance the reproaches of the
world, and aimoft fanclifies the blemishes of an illullrious cha
racter, exempted no foibles ft om the kourge of Cleander ;but
rather quickened his acuteneis to remark, and his afperitv to ex
pofefhem, it furnilhed a display of his penetration, in discover
ing imperfections, where there appeared to the wojld nothing but
unmingled excellence. It wtis indeed his chief delight to remark
the. !hades of a brilliant charaCter, and to pourtray with exaCtness
the lecret gradations of excellence, by which it fell short of per
fe&ifm : Yet in Cleander, this conduCt by no means sprang
from the envy of lupcrio'r worth, or the mali gnant defireof degra
ding every one to his own level. He pofTeiled tlic magnanimity
of a virtuous mind, and difrhjined to lelfcn his inferiority by any
other means than that of honell emulation. It had its basis in a
taste for ridicule, and the pride of wit. This deportment could
riot fail to llTne in perplexitv and diilrefs. His enemies confider
him as a kind of beast of prey, a lavage of the defcrt, whom
they were authorised to wound by every weapon of offence, some
by open defamation, and some by poisoned arrows in the dark*
ftis friends began to look upQn him with alienation and dillruft,
clteem mg their characters too sacred to be suspended for the sport
of an individual, on the breezy point of levity and wit. His ap
pearance was a lignal for general complaint, and he could scarcely
enter into company hoping to enjoy the unmingled plcafurcs of
focisl converse, but he had innumerable jealousies to allay, and
mi'unaerltandings to set right. He was every where received
whh marks of disgust; met with resentment for which he could
not account, and was every day obliquely infultcd, fbr careless
itrofces of satire, of which he retained no rccolleCtion. Wherever
he turned himfelf, he found his path was ilrewed with thorns ;
snd th'af even th6v who admired his wit, secretly vilified his cha
racter, and shrunk from his acquaintance. His fears bfcgan to
bleed on every fide ; his reputation was tarhifhed ; his faireft prof
pefcls wereblafted, and Ci eander at length awakened from Ins
delusion, convinced, when it was too late, of a lcfTou he had often
been in vain, That the nttichme/its of friendjhip, and the tran
fj" - ty <>/ ifr, are too valuable to be facrifiicd to a Male of momentary
admiration !
A confide ration of the benefit.of afflictions fliould teach us to
bear them patiently, when they 1. II to our lot ; and to be thank
»ul to Heaven, for having planred such barriers around us, to re
ftrjiti the exuberance of ourfoMics, and our crimes.
1-et thele facrcd fenccs be removed ; exemt>t the ambitiousfrom
disappointment, and the guilty from remorle : Let luxury go un
attended withdilcafc, and indiscretion lead us into no embarrafs
mcntjor diftrelfes, our vices would range without control, and the
nwpetuofify of our pafiions have no bounds—every family would
be filled with ftrife—every nation with carnage—and a deluge of
"calamities would break in upon us, which would produce more
misery in a year, than is infliCted by the hand of Providence in
the iapfe of ages.
V' upjrn? pf*i* Utiiieotrmte^
;■' yj-;s> - :-v,, >- y;' t'-j CfsJiy yr V , '/*>-' r 4
SATURDAY, December 5, 1739.
From the PENNSYLVANIA PACKET and DAILY
ADVERTISER.
Messrs Dunlap and Caytoole.
THE linalleli: hint that has a tendency to al
leviate the difaflers arising from an element
so terribly deltrudive as fii*e, will merit attention.
An eye-witness of the calamity which happened
this morning in Third-ltreet would suggest the
propriety of having a suitable number of lniall
engines, of such alizc as might be ealxly introduc
ed through an entry or pailage in a lioufe, or
even, if neclfary, be carried up flairs ; such as
are usually 111 ide for watering gardens, the box
being no more than a plain tub, capable of con
taining 15 or 20 gallons of water. Fire some
times lurks in places inaccelfible to the large en
gines in the street, and out of the reach of the
hand : one of these small machines, which would
carry water 2J or 30 feet, would then be found
of great advantage.
When the ravage of fire is fofudden, that the
family barely escape with their lives, and leave
their property to diftrudtion, it often happens
that there are many articles of an incombustible
nature, which receive hut little injury, and if
carefully picked out of the rubbilh, and restored
to the owners, would diminifli the amount of
their lodes. But the morning after the calamity,
the ruined buildings are generally over-run with
boys and idle people, scrutinizing, not without
risque, the scenes of diitru(fiion, and probably se
creting anyfniall article which they find uninjur
ed, while 110 attention is paid to secure to the
disconsolate and unheedful owner the larger ef
fects, which a little care would preserve. The
magiflracy might direift a llight fence to be run
round the place in the morning, and constables
to be ilationed till the ruins were properly ex
amined ; or if they would not attend to it, fire
companies might have a committee eonflantly ap
pointed for the purpose.—A watch, belonging to
poor Brown, the hair drefler, and some dollars,
were picked out of the ruins this morning, and
delivered to the unfortunate people ; what was
concealed aiuongft a crowd of boys cannot be
told.
The great inclemency of the weather increas
es the n.erit of the citizens who attended, and
exhibited the usual activity of Philadelphia upon
an occasion so melancholy. There are, indeed,
few duties more incumbent 011 the inhabitants of
a large city, where so much property is comprif
cd in so small a conipafs, than to ltep forward
without hefltation, in opposition to .in enemy,
which aflails at once both life and property with
equal violence. And it has been the meritorious
character of my fellow citizens, to facrifice oil
such occasions the diltin&iona of civil life, and
the consideration of personal fafety ; rich and
poor, black and white, old and young, ming
ling together in lanes, or affiiting at the engine,
with a zeal which refletfls honor on human nature.
That there are some, whose love of ease subdues
their sense of duty, who, without ill health, or
advanced age, will coldly alk from the window,
Where is the fire ? and will return to their beds
with the felfifh remark, that there will be people
enough there, cannot be denied—but their num
bers are few, and their praifc is small.
A. CITIZEN.
November 26, 1759.
£ ASTERN MAGNANIMITY.
ABOUT the commencement of the late Mahrat
ta war, an army, under the command of
General Carnac, made an excursion into the ter
ritories of tliofe warlike and Independent repub
licans. I<i proportion as the Engliih army advanc
ed up the country, difficulties encreafed upon
them apace. At last they were surrounded by
the Mahratta army, under the command of Ma
dagee Scindia, and, for want of provisions, obli
ged to capitulate. The terms granted by the
Mahratta Chief were far better than the Englifii
had any reafonto expect. He permitted them to
return to Bombay, and furnifhed them with pro
visions for that purpose, on these equitable con
ditions, viz. That the Englifii should make peace
with the Mahrattas, and that they fliould reftoreto
them the Illand of Saliette, from which the Pre
sidency of Bombay,liald expelled them in the com
mencement of that unjuit war. The Field De
puties of the English army agreed to the terms,
and delivered up as hoflages, for the performance
of their part of the convention, two English
gentlemen, Meflrs. Farmer and Stewart, the firft
a Civilian, the latter an Ensign in the service.
But when the ariny returned to Bombay, the
avaricious views of the Presidency of thatfettle
mcnt refufed to ratify a treaty which had saved
their army from dellrutlion.
Madagee Scindia came to the prison in which
\_PulliJhe<? on Wedntfday and Saturday. J
the English hostages were confined. " The En
glifli," laid he, " have broke the treaty, and
your lives are forfeited of cour'fe ! But theMah
ratta States disdain to take tlie lives of two in
nocent men. Go, and serve your country.
Transported with gratitude, and Itrnck with
the generosity ot the Mahratta Chief, Mr. Stew
art was going to swear on his i'word, which Ma
dagee Scindia had delivered to him, that he
would never draw it against the Mahrattas. " No,
No!" exclaimed Scindia, " Let your sword be
pointed againit the enemies of your nation, who
ever they may be ; and, brave young man ! re
member, I expect to meet you in the field the very
next engagement."
LUXURY.
IN a country where the people go barefoot,
ought the firft person that procured a pair of
lhoes to be blamed for luxury? Would it not ra
ther be a proof of his good sense and indnlhy ?
May not the fame be said of him who firft wore
a shirt ? As to the man who firft contrived to have
a shirt wafhed,and worn a second and a third time,
and so on, I look upon him to have been a pro
digious genius, and dare fay he was capable of
governing a State.
Nevertheless it is probable that he was consi
dered by thole who did not wear clean linen as
an effeminate person, who was likely to corrupt
the manners of the people.
Itis not long since a Norwegian reproached a
Dutchman with luxury. What is become, said
he, of those happy times, when a merchant on
going from Amiterdam to the East-Indies, left a
quarter of dried beef in his kitchen, and found it
at his return ? Where are your wooden spoons,
and your iron forks ? Is itnotafhame for afober
Dutchman to lie in a damask bed ?
" Go to answered the man of Am
sterdam, " get ten tons of gold, as I haveVlone,
and then fee if you will not want to be a little
better cloathed, fed and lodged."
REVOLUTION at PARIS and VERSAILLES.
PARIS, October 7.
following is an authentic copy of the re-
JL folutionsof the District of the Cordeliers,
adopted by the other Diftritfs of Paris, which oc
casioned the deciftve measure of the Marquis de
la Fayette's march to Versailles, at the head of
tiic National Militia.
October 4, 1789. •
" THE diftridt of the Cordeliers being this
day legally and extraordinarily convolved and al'-
fembled, and being informed by the public pa
pers and the report of occular witnefles, that 011
Thursday the firlt of this month, the officers of
the Gardes du Corps gave an entertainment in the
hall of the Opera-House, at Versailles, to the of
ficers of the regiment de Flandres, to which
were invited the officers of the Trois Eveches,
the Dragoons, the Swiile and Cent Swiile, the
Garde Nationale of Versailles, the Marechauilee,
and Prevote, being in all about two hundred and
fifty guests; and that after the healths of the
King and Queen, and of the Dauphin were giv
en, (that of the Nation omitted) the air of " 0
Richard! 0 viy King /" &c. was played by the
music of the regiment de Flandres. Some gre
nadiers and fufiliers of that regiment were then
introduced to join their officers ; and to confound
the fentinients and libations of the company, a
grenadier drew his sabre, faying, that he had ill
defended his King (as if serving the nation was
betraying the King). The national cockade was
also insulted ; they having substituted the black
cockade, and afterwards the white; that they
had audibly said, that this last was the only good
one, although the King and the National Ailem
bly, and even the whole nation, had adopted in
variably the colours of red, blue, and white, ev
er lince the day of taking the Baftile, and of the
arrival of the King at Paris ; thati such an insult
to the symbol of liberty, and to the nation, who
will defend it to the last extremity, could only be
the effect of that aristocracy, which is renewing
even in the National Aflembly, which alone ap
pears in the unjust opinion which prevails in the
affairs of Orleans, Macon, and Marienbuvgh :
That such an entertainment, given in the very
moment when all good citizens facrifice a part of
their subsistence, is an insult to the public dis
tress ; that the people who thus acted, have ren
dered their patriotism doubtful; more especially
when one recollects, that the day which had been
fixed for the execution of the fatal project, which
the vigilance of the good citizens of Paris render
ed abortive, was preceded by similar rejoicing.—
Rcfolved unan'tmoujly, 1 That every citizen in
Paris, and even every ftranger,inhabitant thereof,fliall aguia !>e pofiiivtiy invited to keep or take,
■without delay, ine national coekade, composed
of the colors red, blue, and white, cxclufive of
all others, aiul to wear it at the outer loop of his
liar, or at the button hole of his coat.
2. rir.itevery individual of whatfoeverftation,
qualit\ , or condition, Frenchman or foreigner,
palli-ig in this diltridl wearing a black cockade,
or a white only, (hall be at firft desired by the firft
loldier upon duty to take it oil", and towearana
rional one instead thereof; and in c d feof refufal
to be stripped ofit, and conducted to tke district to
be interrogated and sentenced accordingly; and
if the Afll-mbly is not fitting, to be taken to the
Hotel de Ville before the committee of the Police,
to be by them sentenced according to their deserts.
3. 1 hat in cafe of the delinquent's being caught
a second time in the fame crime, hefhall beaccuf
ed as a traitor to his country, and as such deli
vered over to the hands of justice, to be tried
without delay.
4. T hat all diftricfts to which these resolutions
shall be communicated, iball be invited to join
rherein.
LONDON, October 12.
Paris, October 8. 1789.
_ Ten o'Clock, A. M.
\> e are at length arrived at the second great cri
lis ot ourdiforder, and the violent fever we have
just escaped, has throws off the peccant humors of
the body politic. I have uniformly afliired you,
that some premeditated plan of the ai iftocratic
party was preparing for the long nights; but in
1 his, as well as their former conduct, the envenom
ed rage and hatred which animate the defeated
tyrants, has brokeforth with too much precipitati
on ; they have overshot their mark, and as weakly
as wickedly counted upon the docile temper of
slavish troops bens under the yoke of difciplihe,
and falhioned to the mandates of an arbitrary go
vernment—We have long known, that one or
more traitors existed in tlit new adminifti ation.
The firft of October has long been whifperedas
the period ot some great event, by the complacent
shrugs and fignificant hints of "the well known
friends of the old system. You remember I soli
cited your attention to the King's ' 0 yes ! always,'
of the 23d of Sept ember, when requelled to declare
his favorable intentions towards the National As
sembly. I called the public obfervatioiijjto the extra
ordinary and clandeihne introduction of the Flan -
ders regiment to Versailles ; at the gates of which
they arrived after a long march from Douay, a
distance of 50 leagues, before either the National
Allembly, or a single good citizen of Paris were
apprised of their approach. 1 confidently allured
you of what I knew to be a fad:, that there was a
premeditated plan for the King's escape ; a mea
sure inevitably productive of a civil war, tho' with
the certain lofsof his crown. I hinted likewise at
another leading fart with refpeftto the children
ot the Duke of Orleans, the particulars of which
every motive ofhoneft zeal and prudence prevent
ed me from explaining ; but which, in addition
to the above, and a variety of concurrent circum
ft.inces, all plainly announced tne revived hopes
and maligflant views of a profligate and foolifh
paity, which never can forgive, because they feel
they merit no forgivenefi from aninfulted nation.
Ihe cause ok liberty is now triumphant the
lame prudential motives are at an end. Let M de
Calonne now fay what he knew of the plot—Let
the Comtede Hautoy speak out; and let the Ruf
fian Pnncefs, in Jermyn-ftreet weep over the
headless trunks of the restorers of the Austrian
power at Versailles, with as genuine fervency as
the whole anftocratic band would have indecently
rejoiced at the fnppofed maflacre of those tliou
' ant Is of opprefled citizens whom the firft reports
received in England will doubtless have devoted
to the fwo rd by the hands of their fellow-citizens
in royal uniform.
M. de Calonne will perhaps understand me (tlio'
he, honest man, is too remote from Paris to know
any thing of the proceedings of the Queens party)
when 1 ask him, what meant the late private meet
ings at the apart men ts of the Chevalier deCubieres
at Versailles ? For what purpose his bosom friends
the intriguing Monsieur Amavite, ventured back
to Paris a few days previous to this frefh attempt >
What part the Baron de Tott, the Commandant of
Douay, had in preparing the regiment de Flan
dres for this black exploit > What were his con
nections at Conftnntinople, with the Comtede St.
I rieft the suspicious minister for Paris > And what
the friendly aid ot Madame de Tott, the Baron's
daughter, the favorite Maid of Honor to the
Queen ? Perhaps, too, he may have heard of the
Comte d'Artois' interview with the Magistrates of
Beine; tlieii promises and artful manoeuvres of
the Swiss Deputy dispatched to Paris to tamper
with the troops of the Cantons ; that the firft of
October was the most favorable moment for the
desperate attempt, when the picked njen of all the
provincial regiments were to pass through Paris
at the annual time of furlough ; and when his
creatures, without his knowledge doubtless, had been
laboring with industry at least, if not success, to
decry the financial schemes of M. Neckar, and to
load the patriots with all the odium brought on the
National AfTembly bv the Maurvs, the de Virieux
the Lallys, and the d'Efpremcnils. Let him-let m'
dc CaloJme, I fay, plead Not Giiiity, if lie
to thele rjueltions ancl fuppolitioiis ; the grandin
queft of his country have examined the evidence,
and found it a True Bill, and theindi<ftment will
hangover him, till he dares venture to a trial.
But the plans of tyrants and traitors are defeat
ed ; the troops have again provedthemfelves citi
zens ; the Queen has 101 l herfelf forever ; the King
has left no doubt refpe<ting his intentions; the
lives of a few faithlefs courtiers have laved
torrent of blood ; the new national character of
the French is established; the wicked alone trem
ble ; the Almighty hand of Providence is nianifeft,
and freedom is triumphant! Louis and Marie An
toinette are in our polleflion, from which neither
the intrigues of Bieteuil at Vienna, Vauguyonat
Madrid, d Artois, aided by his trulty Calonne at
1 urin (for he is expected there) nor all the petty
bands of Germany, can wrell: them. The eigli
teenth century will still exhibit the glorious and
unparalled spectacle of a bloodless revolution;
for not iooo lives have been loft in the field, 01
011 the fcaff'old, to produce the freedom and hap
piness of existing millions and endless generations.
0 the sweet Jympathy of kindred fouls ! that
the band of the regiment de Flandres should ac
cidentally hit on the favorite Air of the theatrical
M. de Calonne, as the ?not de ralliement for the
poor royalists! How often have the groves of
Wimbledon, and the link boys in Piccadily,heard
this unhappy, but modest Statefinan, quaver out
the plaintive notes of
O Richard ! O mon Roi !
L* univers t'abandonne;
Dans tout la terrc,
II n'y a que moi qui s'interefle
Pour ta pcrfonnc !
But let him now hang up his harp—Not a Mon
arch in Christendom has fubjefts more truly at
tached to his person than Louis XVI. They are
only alraid left he should abandon them Mde
Calonne is now the only abandoned person.
The Duke of Orleans, apprised of the inten
tions ot the aristocratic party to make another
ftrugglc for the renewal of the old system, to
wards the beginning of October, sent offhis chil
dren, the26th oflaft month, to Villedeu, a small
country feat of his near Dieppe ; opposite to
which, in a little creek of the sea, a veflel has
been tor some time lying at anchor, provided
with every neceflhry, and ready to put to sea at a
moment's warning, for England. The King's
removal »o Paris will render this precaution 11c
longer neceflary.
— ™ le C° unt de Lufignan, whose head was
itruct off at Versailles, was Colonel of the re
giment de Flandres, and a member of the Nation
al Ailembly—a circumstance afliiredlv alledged
at the time in the AfTertibly, to prove that no dan
ger could arise from the unexpected arrival ol
of that regiment—tho there was not a more de
termmed Member of the aftritlocracy than the
Count.
Ihe Duke de Chatelet, likewise a member of
the aflembly, fucceded the Marechal de Biron as
Colonel of the trench Guards, and was univer
sally detelled by the regiment previous to there
volution. On several occasions, he had apparent
ly espoused the popular cause, but was so Ibrdidly
avaricious, as to render him at all times a suspi
cious character. On finding himfelf deprived of
his regiment by the revolution, the most lucrative
military employ in France, and receiving many
personal insults by the seizure of his carriages,
na equipage, after the taking of the
Ballile ; his condu<t, from luke-warm became vio
lent on the fide of the Nobles, and he wasoneof
the chosen band to operate the Royal Restoration.
The patriots, who, tho they may sometimes ap
pear to sleep, are in fact unremitting in their vi
gilance and invariably jealous of all the Members
ot the old Court, let drop insinuations to his dif
ad vantage jn the Aflembly, which were loon pro
pagated by means of thePrefs, and produced the
fatal catastrophe of his death
The Duke de Guiche was no otherwise distin
guished than by his uniform servility to Court
measures, and his active zeal at the moment of this
expected revolution.
On the Marquis de la Fayette's arrival at Ver
sailles 011 Monday evening, he demanded an au
dience of the King; but courtly firmnefs beino
then 111 its meridian glory, he was peremptorily
refufed admittance. He then fignified his ref
ill tion of not quitting Versailles until he had a
personal communication with HisMajefty.
. c ' le interim the rage of the women broke forth
into violence—The Gardesdu Corps fired on them
-The regiment de Flandres, and other troops,
refufed to acft—and the ill-advised Monarch was
once more obliged to recede from his lofty pre
tentions, being allowed only five minutes consi
deration by the Marquis, who declared, that he
was charged by the city of Paris, to require his
pretence in the capital—and in cafe of a refufal
could not be responsible for his life
The King burst into tears, and 'attempted to
hesitate—but convinced at length that his danger
was imminent, he reluctantly agreed to set offon
ueiday ; on which day he proceeded in his car
riage to Pans with the Queen, Monsieur, his
Sifter Aunts &c. in twelve carriages, preceded
and followed by theParifian Guards, thefoldiers
of other regimeu:s, an imnteufcconeoo.fc r
pie, and with the heads of the Duke den,
the Duke de Guiche, and the ComtedeLufi,' " *
carried on pikes in front of the procefli 01 , ° '
1 he King was accompanied in his can-in,
the Prince de Bcaoveai, who on anS®
1 huilleries, attempted to follow l,i s Rovahm"
but was (topped by the Marquis do J a KaJe
told bun there was no room for him in t h e
ments prepared for his Mu jelly.
During this lingular and horrible proceffin
people flocked in from all parts ofthe c
and lined the roads-and the whole way f ro "l'
budge at Sere, two leagues from Palis, t0 ■
city, vyas filled with the armed citizens from Par»
as on his former entry of the 16th of luly_b I
the reception , the cold enough at that lime, w
now marked m 11.11 more mortifying characters
PARIS, September 28.
The petitions from the religious bodies to
National Aflembly for the fappreflion of their hi.
have been very numerous. Half the
Nuns in trance are willing to recant their vows
and return to society.
The number of contributions daily incrcafe
and now their Majesties have made a facrifice of
theirplate and jewels, it is held infamous to make
use of either. Every thing of mere luxury is dedi
cated to the public, and we have 110 doubt, but ia
the course of this week, an immense sum will be
brought into the public Treasury. A public auo
tion of jewels, trinkets, and other valuables, will
be announced, and foreigners coming to purchafs
will be protected on the faith of the nation
Their Majesties' plate is reckoned worth one
million five hundred tlioufand livres.
The King, truly penetrated at the embarraffei
state of the finances, gave orders for his plate to
be lent to the mint, and this morning at 10 o'clock
it was Tent from Versailles to Paris. TheQueeft
made the fame facrifice.
M. Neckar refufes the statue intended to bee.
re&ed for him in the city of Paris; the Marqois
de la Fayette refufes the salary of one hundred
and fifty thousand livres eltablifhed fortheCap
tam General of the city guard ; and M. Houclon
refufes to accept of any fort of payment for the
bust of M. Neckar, which is to be placed in the
hall of the Aflembly.
DUBLIN, September 10.
\V e haveftrong afliirances that a very consider
able number of Catholic diflenting farmers and.
pealantry of Ireland have it in contemplation to
try the experimentof a French hemifphereasfoe®
as the present troubles shall in that country fab
fide, and the National Aflembly are enabledt#
complete the grand fabric of a free Constitution.
The opprelnons whichthofe two feCits of people
have undergone, not only from the rack #f ab
sentee landlords, and middle men, but the op
preflive burthens of clerical tytlies, andthenecef
fity of fupportingtwo setts of clergy, pointoutto
the Legislature the only fyflem of arrangement
that can render this country tolerableto twothirdi
of its inhabitants—when any other foil is to be
found when the true value of population ani
industry are estimated by a just scale of liberty
and comfort, exempt wholly from vassalage ani
oppreflion.
Men begin now to think for tliemfelves, ani
to separate their temporal and spiritual connec
tions— Ihe whole property, principal and profit,
of every Protestant liufbandman in this countrjv
goes once in every ten years to his clergy; andby"
the fame rule, the property of every
Catholic and Protestant is transferred to the
church once in five years. This will never do
it is a prohibitory tax on industry, which Heaven,
knows, requires stimulants inflead of discourage
ments in this country. The French National As
sembly have abolifbed tytlies—they have done
wifely. The French clergy fawthe people wet 6
in an humor to get rid of the grievance, and nol '
disposed to be cajoled : They therefore made 1
virtue of necessity, and quietly resigned theirpr*-
tensions.
This is an admissible precedent, andwetru"-
will have its operation in this country, withoutaft
effort of popular violence.
To such a degree of perfection has the cotton
branch arrived in this kingdom within thefefew
years past, that scarce any article in that line is
imported here, either from Manchester or any °"
ther part of England.
LONDON, October 16.
The measures taken by the court of Spain, may
for a time prevented the flame of liberty fro®
breaking out 111 that kingdom; but the torrent
cannot be long refilled. The Spaniards will think'
Great Britain has now its turn of peace an
prosperity ; and nations that prospered by means
of the embarrailinent in which this kingdom
before the peace of 1783, was involved, fed now
the disadvantages and calamities of war.
_ The advantages which arise from InlanilM'
vigation are of a truly important nature, and ' c
is not to be wondered at, that kingdoms, who a
views are directed to commeicial objeCts, fhou
eagerly countenance them for the benefit of I"'
ciety. A Scotch writer 011 agricultural
lias ellimated the product of nx acres as neceJ»v:o the fuppcvi of onswellfed draft iioufts, Which,
■/'cultivated bythefpade, would maintain twelve
of the human f'pecies. Admitting his calculation
on a much lower scale, it is as easy to conceive
how beneficially inland communication by water
must operate in the reduction of animals, and
•what has been proved before a committee of the
Englilh House of commons In the year r774, will
give a pretty clear idea thereof. In that year it
was demonstrated, that the heavy goods which
pafleii in one year through Stamford-hill, Hack
jiey and Mile-end gates,amounted to 304,278 tons,
the carriage of which would employ upwards of
608,556 horses ; whereas in barges, thefomemay
be drawn by 7>608 ; a laving in the maintainance
of 600,248 iiories.
Died William Ebward, archited; and
bridge-builder; or the Rev. Win. Edward; for
he l'uftained both characters with equal afliduity
and ability : The celebrated bridge on the river
Taaff, called Pont ytu Pridd (by the Englilh New
Bridge) was conllrut r ted by him :It is the segment
of a circle, whole c hord at thefurface of the water
is 147 feet, and is the boldest and largest arch in
Europe : He was then a common mason, and
methodist preacher : His fame was diffufed thro*
England, and his assistance fought where ever
difficulties occurred in conltrurting bridges : He
retained his passion for religious exercises ; and
conducted a large and mingled congregation of
methodists and independents, and built bridges,
to the age of 71 ; at which he died, venerated
eyen among contending fedts for his exemplary
piety, and, for his inventive genius and talents,
ranked among the real benefa<ftors of mankind.
UNITED STATES,
... . NeKhYork, December <.
i ellerday His Excellency William Livingston, and the
Hon. John Beatty, Esq. presented the following Address 10
The Pr esident, in behalf of the State of New-Jerfcy.
To THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
r T~ I HE Legiflatnrc of New-Jersey, altho fully fenfiblc of the
A trouble and interruption occasioned by the numerous ad
ureffes of congratulation, on your acceptance of the highfft office
In the Commonwealth, would neither forgive themfelvcs, nor
expect the pardon of their constituents, should they neglelt in
this their firll meeting, after the organization of the Federal Go
vernment, to express their joy, on feeing you at the head of the
united States.
New-Jersey having been the central theatre of the late war, and the
°M ome ,e nioft important military operations, which
uiltinguilhed the American armies, and added new honors to their
Il'.uftrious Commander, we are particularly induced to comme
morate those brilliant exploits, which, while they immortalized
your name, afforded peace and security to the inhabitants of the
Sjate.
Adulation, Sir, we are as much indisposed to offer, as you can
be disinclined to receive ; but while we add our voicc to that of the
world, in celebrating your military achievements, we cannot re
train irom acknowledgisg the attention, which you have always
paid to the Jaws of the State, and your inflexible pcrfcverance, a*
midii all the dire necessities of war, in prefering the rights of the
citizen, to the convenience of the soldier ; thus while equal to the
molt renowned warriors as a Hero, you have proved yourfclf su
perior to them as a Citizen.
As New-Jerlcv was early and unanimous in adoptingthe Con
fti:ut:on, under which you rule—As every voice called you forth
to the office of Ciiief Magistrate, and every person looks up to it
and you for protelYion, prosperity, and gooa government, we may,
we trull, afTure you, that the citizens of this Slate will, to the ut
rooft ot their abilities, ever strengthen and support you in the dis
charge of your high and momentous trust.
W c have reason to adore the divine Providence, in faifing up
for us a Leader and Ruler, so perfectly suited to our fttuation and
circumstances, and sincerely believe, that great and important as
your fcrvices have bet n,you will not derive more honor therefrom,
than from your humility and felf-denial, in modeftfy afcribingall,
as you constantly have done, to the power and wisdom of the
Moil High. V
We tarneftly pray, that the fame kind Providencc which has
U^. C( * y ou with so much honor to yourfelf, and such unfpeak->
able te'icity to the public, may'long continue you a blcflfing to the
united States, in your present important office, and at last crown
vou with that palm of vi&ory, which is promised to those, who
y/?' V J. nC a ®K*nce /ball finally prove to be more than conquerors.
Houfc of Assembly, November 30, 1789.
Signed in and by order of the House,
JOHN BEATTY, Speaker.
CeunciZ-Chamber, December 1, 1789.
Signed in and by o r der of Council
WILLIAM LIVINGSTON, Prudent.
THE ANSWER.
To the Honorable tht LEGISLATURE of the State of NEW-JERSEY
Giktl EMEN',
TM replying to the flattering and affeltionAte address, with which
you arc pleased to honor me, I confefs a want of expreflion to
convey the grateful fentirnents which it infpircs. You will do
justice to those fentimenu, by believing that they are founded in
sincere regard, and refpeltful eftcem.
The opportunities which were afforded me, in the trying vicif
utudesofour arduous struggle, to remark the generousfpirit which
animated the exertions of youi citizens, have impressed a remem
brance of their worth, which no length of time, or change of cir
cumstance can efface.
To the gallantry and firmnefs of their efforts in the field, they
have added the wisdom and liberality of diflmguifhed patriotism
jn Council : Appreciating, with judicious difcemment, the blef
ungs of that independence, which their efforts contributed to ef
tablifli, they were unanimoufty agreed to secure and perpetuate
them, by adopting a Conilitution, which promised equal and ef
icient protelhon to the privileges of confederated America.
The affiirance now given by your honorable body- to support
tic federal system, is a renewed proof of the estimation in which
'tis held, and a happy indication of the beneficial effects already
c *P e *ienced.and hereafter expelled to flow, from its operations. —
As inch it is tome peculiarly grateful, and mull be lo to every
citizen of the Union, whose wifti is private prosperity and public
honor.
Allow me, Gentlemen, to assure you of every endeavor on
roy part, to promote these desirable objelts.
In making my acknowledgments for the favorable opinions you
**prcfsof my military conduit, as it refpelted the observance of
c ' v| l-rights,it is justice to aflign great merit to the temper of those
citizens, whose estates were more immediately the scene of war
fare. Their personal services were rendered without constraint,
the derangement of their aflars fubiritted to, without dif
fatisfi-fiiofi ; Ti Was the triumph of patriotifrfi oVc* personal ron«
fiderntmn, and our prcfciit enjoyments ot peace and freedom re
ward the faerifice.
Imploring a continuance of these enjoyments tb our Ou::fry,
and individual happiness to the citizens, who procured them, I of
fer up a sincere prayer lor you Gentlemen, and vour Condiments.
G. WASHINGTON.
TuH J HE uAZETI'EOF 1 HE UNITED STATMi.
PROGRESS of LIFE, or the PRODIGAL SON.
w ITH anxious carc, nurs'd in our tender years,
1 ill life's full bloom a parent's love appears ;
Butj when to manly vigour we attain,
, Ihe bonds are loos'd, and we aflu me the reign;
Impatient ot control, our fouls on fire,
Mount on the wings ot hope, and strong desire :
1 en thoufaud plealures tempt our minds to rouna,
1 ill truth and virtue guide us wand'rers home.
I he Prodigal in sacred story known,
Is but the picture of each giddy son ;
In foreign climes, his patrimony spends,
Till want in ev'ry dismal form att, nds ;
Dear-bought experience taught him to be wife;
1 he hulks ot vice and folly to despise.
Shame and contrition in his bosom burn,
And joy and feafting hail'd his bieft return !
Paternal love pervades the mansion round—
My Son was dead, was lojl— he lives ! is jound !
PHILADELPHIA, November 23.
Tliurfday morning, about half past two, a fire
broke out at a house in Third-ltreet, next door
to the Bunch of Grapes Tavern, which had ar
rived at such a height before it was discovered,
either by those within, or by the watchmen, that
the whole was involved in a vivid flame, and
entirely consumed. A poor woman, with her two
lons perilhed.
SPRINGFIELD, November 25.
We are informed that the Hon. Board of Trus
tees of Dartmouth College, at a late meeting,
conferred the degree of Do<ftor of Laws on his
Excellency John Sui.livan, Esq. President of
the State of New-Hamplhire, and the Hon. Paul
Wentworth, Esq. of London.
NEW-YORK, DECEMBER y.
IMPORTANT NEWS!
By the arrival of a Packet, in five days from
Wilmington, North-Carolina, we have received
the agreeable intelligence that the Convention of
that State ADOPTED THE NEW CONSTITU
TION, on the 20th ult.
For the adoption, 195
Against it, 7$
Majority, 118
The Ratification of the Constitution by the
State of North-Carolina is an event of the high
est political confeqnence to the Union, as it leaves
but the shadow of a schism in the Bond thai
unites the gfeat Federal Republic. This i:
an additional ray to the fame and glory of oui
Country, and there is no doubt but Rhode-liland
•w ill be illuminated by it, to fee wherein her real
interest lies.
Letters from Pofi-Vincenues, inform that that
situation has been very ficlcly the season past—
that the Indians have been troublesome and feve
ra] murders have been committed by them in the
neighborhood of that place^
Roujfeau, Chcftcrjicld, and Voltaire, according to theEnglifh para-
severally predicted the revolution of France ! It is real
ly laughable that tnofe should bedubbed prophets ast r their death,
who ("pent their whole lives in ridiculing every kind of precogni
tion ; but there is no doubt thai some ptrjons can more easily dif
covcr the origin of Gallic Freedom, in the fabricated predictions
ot sceptic philosophers, than in the spark Which was Aruck from
the Altar of American Liberty !
So far as our Information extends, the lateFEDE
ral Thanksgiving has been attended in the
several States with that solemnity which became
the important occasion. One advantage which has
resulted from the Supreme Executives' of the in
dividual States having republiihed the proclama
tion of the President, has been, that the peo
ple havetliereby been more fully acquainted with
this truly federal and devout recommendation of
teftifying our gratitude as <7people, to the SOVE
REIGN LORD OF ALL, for his innumerable fa
vors conferred upon thtf United States—and the
only possible disadvantage that can arise front the
non-interference of any particular State is, that
some parts of the Union, or of some particular
States, not poflefling, so fully as others, the means
of information, may have been led, through ig
norance, to a negletft of the dutfes enjoined.
If, while the community at large has been so
lemnly engaged in adts of public thanksgiving
and praise, any individuals have availed them
selves of the opportunity to pursue their common
bulinefs, we may compliment their IhrewdnefSj
and keen relish for gain ; but it will be at the ex
pence of their patriotism, complaisance, and good
citizenship.
ARRIVALS.—NEW-YOk K.
Sloop Union, Watson, Philadelphia, 8 davs.
ThurJ'iliy, Schooner Betsy, Billings, Washington, 9 days.
Schooner Neptune, Jones, Curracoa, 31 days.
Schooner Sincerity, White, Baltimore, 21 days.
Sch >oner Sydney, Todd, Wilmington, N. C. 4 days.
Sloop Cato, Mills, Baltimore, 8 davs.
Sloop Wilmington Packet, BramSy, Wilmington,
Friday, Schooner Nancy, Lewis, Richmond, Virginia, 9 days.
Sloop Hunter, Foreman, Edenton, fj. C. 4 days.
Sloop Exchange, Biggs, Richmond, Vir 6 d^vs.
THE T A fl L E T. No. LXVIII.
" It may be qtief; ior.ed, whether it is a greater point
" of-wi/dom to dtfeovcr knoiviege, than t'j hide igue
" ranee."
ONE of the 1110 ft refpetftable men of inv ac
quaintance is a person who speaks very lit
tle. People in general believe him to be fenlible,
though no fmai t thing, lie ever laid, can be
etl ; nor can any other reaion be given, why he
is reputed araan of sense, but becaul'e lie never
betrays any weakness in conversation. There i»
however a Hi 11 better reason, why he is on fucli
good terms with mankind : He notonly has pru
dence to conceal his own defects ; but lie has nor
penetration to difceni thof'e of other people.
This want of discernment is called candor and
politeness ; while his ignorance is so covered, as
to acquire the dignified appellations of reflec
tion and gravity. When he is lilent he is l'uppo
fed to be 111 deep contemplation ; and when lie
speaks, though hedifcovers neither spirit or fen
tiinent, he is Hill thought to lhew wonderful sa
gacity. His remarks are not of importance c
noughto meet with opposition, and tliey are de
livered with so much formality as to lull all sus
picion of their being dull or uninteresting.
Thefecretof hiding one's ignorance is a very
ufeful acquilition. It spares the trouble of ac
quiring knowlege, andefcapes the disadvantages
thatrefult from fucli a deficiency. Indeed a mail
who has learned to put on a solemn air of myilery,
when afubjed: is difcufled, which he doesnotun
derftand, will often be appealed to, in fettling
any points in dispute that rife out of the discus
sion. He has only to evade giving any answer at
all, and his wisdom will be applauded. Itis cer
tain he gives no fpecinien of folly, which can
feldoin be said of a man who is prone to much
conversation. Too much stress is apt to be laid
on a ceremonious kind of reserve. Men of this
stamp pass themselves off for much more than
they are worth. When they are employed in
public life their measures are flow and inefficaci
ous, and Hone of their plans are attended with
vigour and utility. And yet it is almolt impofli
ble to dislodge them from any respectable polt,
they have once taken. They excite no a<stive en
vy, and a man of a noble, generous spirit isaflia
med to be found as their competitor. As they
do no positive harm, they meet with no ill-will;
and it is rather difficult to prove that a man, who
does and fays nothing, is destitute of capacity.
I will conclude this short eflay with the reply of
a pliilofopher, who was once asked what he
•bought of a person who had been fitting a consider*
able time in the company, without speaking a
word. —" If," said the philosopher, " he is a
fool, lie a«sls the part of a wife man ; and if he
is a wife man, he arts the part of a fool."
NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XXIX.
Ours is the present—let us then be blejl,
Since pleasing profpeils on the future rejt.
THE lot of mankind is uncertainty, fear and difqdiefude :—a
the whole force of our faculties is exerted through life, to a
bate the effeCts of these invariable attendants on human
I o this point our views are directed in all the enterprizes and haz
ards in which we engage—when we form connexions, increase our
cares, and add to our labors: Societies and communities owe their
origin to the fame caul*—and in forming systems of government
for extensive operation, certainty, security, and tranquility, are the
great impelling principles : But, from the imperfeCtion of human
wisdom, the best concerted plans often miscarry, and totally dis
appoint oUr expectations. After all our endeavors to guard againifc
adverse contingencies, we leave the fame, or a flmilar course of la
bors-, to our fuccefTors : For though one generation may be wiser
than another, yet every generation has much to learn.
From these confederations, candor (hould regulate our judge
ments, and modesty refti ain our censure, in considering thole in
stitutions which require time to ascertain their intrinsic
m appofitenefs to the objcCt they are designed to obtain. Syftem#
:>f government, founded upon a freedom of choice, must be view
id in the light of experiments—for to fuppofethrm unalterable,
avolves the greatest abfurditics. It has been observed, however,
;hat thole who ha*e arrogated to themselves a more tender feelinc
tor the liberties of the people than their neighbors, have objcCtecL
;o the New Confhtution, because it has been called by some of it*
Iriends an Experiment : But the question is, Whether there is noO
greater danger to the liberties of the people in rendering that un~
iltcrabUy which from the imperfeCtion of human nature,cannot bo.
luppofed perfect, than there is, in trusting to experience to point
Dut its defeats, and leaving the people at liberty to mend them, as.
prudence (hall di&ate ? The perfection of government is, necef
iarily, a progreflive work—Upon this principle, the good sense of
the free citizens of America, has led them to adopt that System
which is now happily brought into operation—for perfection, an
tecedent to trial, is an idea that never entered into the heart of any
man, honestly disposed to any government at'all.
The effeCts of System are gradually to be observed: They fhouldl
not be partially considered—a comprehensive view must be taken.™
Revolutions in government, founded on general principles, pio
duce no local, or temporary consequences, by which their utility
is to be determined : It is to the common, combined, and eflential
intercfts of the whole community, we must extend our views.—
If we perceive tbtthe grcatbody of the people are tranquil, in
dultrious and enterprizing, we cannot fairly trace these circum
fiances to any other source, than their confidence in the govern
\J Cm : /~ia WC °kk rve 'bat the Commerce, Arts, Agriculture, and
Manufactures of the States, are emerging from depreflion* extend
ing,and flourifhing, it is from an anticipation of security and pro
tection under the administration of Law and Justice :—lf vre find
t e general ientiment is hostile to temporizing fchemesy tendef
laws, and paper money, it is because the people recognize the
pmt of that Constitution, which has forever shut the door against
luch iniquitous and ruinous expedients If universal and un
bounded respeCt is (hewn to the Supreme Executive of the Un itcci
Mates, and the public expeaation is drawn to the adminiftrati oll
of the general Government, as to the common centre of Hope an<*
appine 4 it is evident that Union and Harmony reign trium
phant through the States, and that the uaiverfaUcfirc is, that rfc.o
Cotftitu liot mould have a fair tr»LMR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER XVI.
Amsterdam, Oct. 26. 17S0.
S 1 R,
THE sixteenth enquiry is, " Who Icjes inofl by
11 desertion ? Do the English and German de
" farters Jer-js voluntarily and well in the American
'• army P Hov> dnthofe who do not enter into the ar
" my fubfft P"
Tl>efe queftionsl answer with great pleasure. —
There has been, frem the beginning of the war to
this day, scarcely an example of a native Ameri
can's defecting from the army to the Englifli. There
have been in the American army, some icattering
Scotch, Iriffi, and German soldiers ; fomeof these
have defected, but never in great numbers ; and
among the prisoners they have taken, itisafton
ifning how few they have been able to persuade,
by all their flatteries, threatenings, promifesand
even cruelties, toenlift into their service.
The number of deserters from them has been all
along considerable more. Congress have general
ly prohibited their officers from enlisting desert
ers ; for some particular services permillion has
been given, and they have served well.
Those who do not enlist in the army have no
difficulty to subsist. Those of them who have any
trades, as weavers, tailors, lmiths, ihoemakers,
tanners, curriers, carpenters, bricklayers; in
ffiort, any trade whatsoever, enter immediately
into better bulinefs than they ever had in Europe,
where they gain a better fubfHtcncc and more mo
ney ; because tradefmenof all denominations are
much wanted: Those who have no trade, if they
are capable of any kind of labor, are immediate
ly employed in agriculture, See. labor being much
wanted, and very dear.
I am not able to tell the precise numbers that
have deserted ; but if an hundred thousand were
to desert, they would find no difficulty in point of
fubliftence or employment, if they can and will
work.
Sir, yours,
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
LETTER, XVII.
Amsterdam, October 26, 1780.
SIR,
TH E seventeenth enquiry is, " Whether we
" have any information that we can rely on con
" coming population ? Has it increaftd or dimin
" ifhed Juice the war P"
In some former letters I have made some ob
servations upon the fubjeJt of theincreafe of man
kind in America.
111 the year 1774 there was much private con
versation among the members of Congress, con
cerning the numbers of fouls in every colony.
The delegates of each were consulted, and the
eftiniates made by them were taken down as fol
low :
In New-Hainplhire 150,000
Maflacliufetts 400,000
Rhode llland 59,678
Connecticut 192,000
, New-York 250,000
New-Jersey 130,000
Pennsylvania and Delaware 350,000
Maryland 320,000
Virginia ■ 640,000
North Carolina 300,000
South-Carolina 225,000
3,016,678
This however was but aneftiruate, and some per
sons have thought there was too much speculation
in it.—lt will be observed, that Georgia was not
represented in the firft Congress, and therefore
is not included in the estimate.
In a pamphlet publiflied in England about ayear
ago, entitled a memorial to the Sovereigns
of Europe, 011 the present State of Affairs, be
tween the Old and New-World," written by
Mr. Pownal, a Member of Parliament, and for
merly Governor of Maflacliufetts, and Lieut. Go
vernor of New-Jersey—we are told that " The
Maflachufets had, in the year 1722, 94,000 inha
bitants ; in 1742, 164,000; in I 751, when there
-was a great depopulation, both by war and the
small pox, 164,484; in 1761,216,000; in 1765,
255,500; in 1 771, 292,000; in 1773, 300,000.
In Connecticut, 1 756, 129,994 ; in 1774, 157,356.
These numbers are not increased by strangers,
butdecreafed by wars and emigrations to the west
ward, and to other States; yet they have nearly
doubled in eighteen years.
In New-York, in 1756, 96,776 ; in T771, 168,007 ;
in 1774, 182,251.
In Virginia, in 1756, 173,316 ; in 1 764, 200,000;
in 1774, 300,000.
In Soutli-Carolina, in 1750, 64,000; in 1770,
115,000.
In Rliode-Ifland, in 1738, 15,000; in 1748,
28,439.
As there never was a militia in Pennsylvania,
before this war, with authentic lifts of the popu
lation, it has been variously estimated on specu
lation. There was a continual importation, for
many years, of Irifii and German emigrant#, yet
many of these fettled in other provinces ; but the
progress of population, in the ordinary course,
advanced, i:i a ratio between that of Virginia and
that of Maflachufetts; the city of Philadelphia ad
vanced more rapidly ; it had in I 749,2,076 houses ;
in 1 7J3, 2,300; in 1760,2,969; in 1769, 4,474;
from 174910 1753, from 16 to 18,000 inhabitants ;
from t760t0 J 769, from 31,318 to 3J,000.
There were in 1754, various calculations and
estimates made of the numbers on the continent.
The fanguinemade the numbers one million and
a half; those who admitted lels (peculation into
the calculation, but adhered closer to fadts and
lilts, as they were made out, Itated them at one
million two hundred and fifty thousand.—Gover
nor Pownal thinks, that 2,141,307 would turn out
nearelt to the real amount in 1774. But what an
amazing progress, which in eighteen years has
added a million, to a million two hundred and
fifty thousand, although a war was maintained in
that country for seven years of the term ! In this
view one fees a community unfolding itfejf, be
yond any example in Europe.
Thus you have the estimates made by the gen
tlemen in Congress, in 1774, and that of Gover
nor Pownal for the fame epocha.—That made in
Congress is mod likely to be right: If in their es
timate some States wete rated too high, it has
been since made cei tain, that others were too low.
But admitting Mr. Pownal's estimate to be just,
the numbers have grown, since 1 774, fomuch, not
withftandingthewar, and the interruption of mi
grations from Europe, that they mult be well nigh
three millions.—lf the calculation made by the
members of Congress was right, the numbers now
mull be nearer four millions, than three millions
and an half.
I have observed to you in a former letter, that
the Maflachufetts Bay has been lately numbered,
and found to have increased in numbers as much
as ill former periods, very nearly.
I now add, that Delaware, which in 1774 was
estimated at 30,000, upon numbering the people
since, they appeared to be 40,000.
Pennsylvania is undoubtedly set too low in both
estimates.
I have the honor to be, very refpe<ftfully, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
PROCEEDINGS OF CONCRESS.
ABSTRACT of JOURNAL of the first SESSION
of the SENATE oj the UNITED STATES.
Wednesday, May 13, 1789.
ORDERED, That Mr. Langdon, Mr. Strong
and Mr. Carroll, be a committee, to confer
with any committee that may be appjinted on
the part of the House of lleprefentatives, and
report what newspapers the members of the Se
nate and House of Representatives, fliall be fur
niflicd with, at the public expense.
A committee consisting of Mr. Johnson, Mr.
Read, Mr. Langdon, Mr. Morris, Mr. Dalton,
Mr. Elmer, Mr. Henry and Mr. Gunn, was ap
pointed to report a bill, defining the crimes and
offences that shall be cognizable under the autho
rity of the United States, and their puniftnnent.
Adjourned.
Thursday, May 14.
The committee appointed the 9th inft. to de
termine " under what Title it will be proper
for the Senate to address the President" and to
confer with a committee of the House of Repre
sentatives, " upon the disagreeing votes of the
Senate and House," informed the Senate, that
they had conferred witha committee of the House
of Pieprefentatives, but could not agree upon a
report.
The committee appointed the 9th inft. "to
consider and report under what Title it will be
proper for the Senate to address the President of
;he United States of America," Reported, That
in the opinion of the committee it will be proper
thus to address the President—His HIGHNESS
THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES
of AMERICA, and PROTECTOR of their
LIBERTIES.
Which report was postponed—and the follow
ing resolve was agreed to, to wit :—
From a decent respect for the opinion and
practice of civilized nations, whether under mo
narchical or republican forms of government,
whose custom is to annex Titles of respectability
to the Office of their Chief Magistrate ; and that,
011 intercourse with foreign nations, ad ue refpedt
for themajefty of the people of the United States
may not be hazarded by an appearance of An
gularity ; the Senate have been induced to be of
opinion, that it will be proper to annex a refpec
fable Title to the Office of President of the Uni
ted States : But the Senate desirous of prefervinp;
harmony with the House of Representatives
where the practice lately observed in presenting
an address to the President was without the addi
tion of Titles, think it proper for the present
to act in conformity with the practice of the
House ;—
Therefore Rcfolved, that the present address
be—" To the President of the United States"—
without addition of Title.
■A motion was made to ftnke out the prt-.,it
as t ",u- as the words "but the Senate;" which"'."'-
ed in the negative—and on motion for 'the m'*
queftioii J it palled in the affirmative. ~" il
The committee appointed to confiderand renor
a mode of carrying into effect the provilionin-h
---fecond clause, of the third feet ion of the hut-.
tide of the Confiitution, reported
VV hereupon ReJ jloecl, that the iieuatprs be di
videdinto three clafles, the fir it to coniilt of M-"
Langdon, Mr. Juiinfon, Mr. Morris, Mr. Henrv
Mr. Jzard and Mr. Giinn— y '
The second of Mr. Wingate, Mr. Strong Mr
Patterfon, Mr. Baliett, Mr. Lee, Mr. Butler and
Mr. few—
And the third of Mr. Dalton, Mr. Ellfworth
Mr. Elmer, Mv. Maclay, Mr. Read, Mr. Carroll
and Mr. Gray lon.
That three papers of an equal iize, numbered
1,2, and 3, he by the Secretary rolled up and put
into a box, and drawn by Mr. Langdon; Mr
Wingate and Mr. Dalton, in behalf of the re!
fpeOtive clafles in which each of them are|placed •
and that the clafles lhall vacate their feats in the
Senate according to the order of numbers drawn
for tliem, begining with number one—
And that when Senators fli-j.ll take their fents
from States that have not yet appointed Senators
they lhall be placed by lot iuthe foregoing dalles'
but in fucli manner as lhall keep the clafles us
nearly equal as may be in numbers.
The committee appointed to confer with a com
mittee of the Houf<? of Representatives, in pre
paring proper rules to be eitablifhed for the en
rollment, &c. of the acts of Congress—Reported,
which report was ordered to lie for consideration!
Ordered, That the committee appointed to draft
an answer to the President's Speech wait 011 him,
and requeit him to appoint the time when it will
be agreeable to receive the address of the Senate
at his own house. Adjourned.
Friday, May 15.
The Committee appointed to draft an answer
tp the President's Speech further reported
W hereupon it was Agreed, That the Senate
should wait upon the President at his own house
on Monday next, at a quarter after eleven o'clock,
and that the Vice President then, prefentthe ad
dress of the Senate, as agreed to on the 7th in
itant.
The Senate proceeded to determine the Clafles
agreeably to the resolve of yesterday, 011 the
mode of carrying into effeift theprovifion in the
second clause, of the third lection, of the firft
article of the Conltitution, and the numbers be
ing drawn, the clafles were determined as fol
low :—
Lot No. 1, drawn by Mr. Dalton—containing
Mr. Dalton, Mr. Ellfworth, Mr. Elmer, Mr. Mac
lay, Mr. Read, Mr. Carroll, and Mr. Grayfon—
Wliofe feats ftiall accordingly, be vacated in the
Senate at the expiration of the second year.
Lot No. 2, drawn by Mr. Wingate—containing
Mr. Wingate, Mr. Strong, Mr. Patterfon, Mr.
Baffett, Mr. Lee, Mr. Butler, and Mr. Few—
whose feats shall accordingly be vacated in the Se
nate at the expiration of the fourth year.
Lot No. 3, drawn by Mr. Langdon—containing
Mr. Langdon, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Morris, Mr.
Henry, Mr. Izard, and Mr. Gunn—whofe feats
shall accordingly be vacated in th£ Senate, at the
expiration of the sixth year. Adjourned.
Saturday, May 16.
A meflage from the House of Representatives
by Mr. Beckley, their Clerk, who informed tie
Senate that " the House had concurred in theap
pointment of a committee, consisting of Mr.Syl
vester, Mr. Wynkoop and Mr. Smith (of South-
Carolina) to confer with a committee appointed on
the partjof the Senate, the 13th instant, and to re
port what newlpapers the members of Congress
ihall be furnifhed with at the public expence;
and that it was an inftruiftion to the said commit
tee on the pare of the House, to receive prop"-
sals for printing the a<fts and other proceed)"!?
of Congress." Adjouned.
Monday, May 18.
Agreeably to the order of the 15th instant the
Senate waited on the President of the Unite®
States, at his own ho.use, when the Vice-President
in their name, delived to the President the ad
dress agreed to 011 the 7th instant: To which the
President of the United States waspleafedtorepl)-
(Set our paper of May 20.)
Ordered, That Mr. Lee be a committee on the
part of the Senate, to join any committee ap
pointed for that purpose on the part of the Ho" *
of Representatives, to lay before the President
of the United States for his approbation, a >
entitled, " AnAcft to regulate the time and man
ner of adininiftering certain oaths," after it fha
be enrolled, examined by the faidcoinmitte, an
signed by the Speaker of the House of Represen
tatives, and by the Vice-Prefident.
ADVERTISEMENT. r..
&T MR. ADAMS's LETTERS which have appeared inM
zettc, arc part of a f cries, 26 in number, wrote by his £< Uc ' f J'., f .
Holland.—the wholf arepublifhcd m a pamphlet of 64 P a 6 e *\
, to he fold by Messrs. Berry & Rogers, Hanover-Square,
Hodge, Queen-Street, and by the Editor hereof.
Pnblifhed by JOHN FEJSfNO, No. 9. MaiD *'V
Lane, ucartlizUfuie£o-Mark:t, New-Yok[3 '•