i'No. LXXIII.j
THE TABLET.
No. LXXIII.
" 1 hate a drinking companion, fays tht Creek pro
verb, who never forgets."
I KNOW not a more fallacious opinion that
men entertain, than that there is a great
degree of friendlhip and generosity among per
sons, who mingle in parties of dilfipation and
intemperance; The warm profefilons of attach
ment andlgood will that flow so easily, in moments
of feftivity, are apt to lead a by-ftander to imagine
there is some serious friend/hip, at heart. Many
an imprudent youth has fallen a victim to the af
k-verations he heard at convivial mee:ings.
There is perhaps no delcription of men who pro
claim their own generosity so loudly, and yet
who i ealize fewer substantial acts of it, from each
other, rhan those who enter circles, under the
stile of bottie-coinpanions. It is hardly credible
to one, who has not ftri<tly noticed it, how slender
the ties are, that are created by such a connexion.
The idea conveyed in my motto may be taken
in two different (enfes ; and the reader may make
his choice of them. It is true, that when per
sons are engaged in a drinking match, they should
wilh to forget their cares and misfortunes ; and
it will heighten their hilarity, if they can so far
dr*wn their reflection, as to forget the duty they
owe their character and family. And it is like
wise true, that such allociatcs desire that whatever
passes at their scenes of conviviality fliould not
be repeated elsewhere. In either of these con
structions, that companion who does not lole
his recollection will be hated by the reft. What
can be more offenfivc, in the jollity of a debauch,
than renionftrances ot reason, or lectures of mo
rality! What can be more disgusting, when the
d«bauch is over, than a jult description of the ac
tions, and recital of the expreflions, with which
it was attended. If a vociferous person throws
off all rellraint in the hours oi'liis merriment, he
certainly cannot wi(h to behold a portrait of him
felf, when he is sober. His own conduct; his own
conversation are thelaft things in the world, that
he can hear or recolle«t with approbation and
pleasure. I would advise all such clubs, that the
iirft article of their aflbciaiion should be a solemn
oath of secrecy. Otherwise they may often be
fhockedat a view of their own picture. But the
greatest advantage of forgetfulnefs consists in
freeing one from the pain and inconvenience of
being reminded of prouiifes, that are made, when
the heart is opened by mirth and intemperance.
When this kind of openefs and generosity disco
ver themfelvea, among Bacchanalians over the
feottle, it is not intended they fliould afford any
claim upon the person, in whom they are exhi
bited.
I lately met with my old college acquaintance,
Joculus. As he did not appear with his former
dignity and fprightlinefs, I had the curiosity to
enquire into his circumstances and profpecfts. I
found him deflitute of money and friends ; and
that he bad neither character to deserve the one,
nor indultry to procure the other. He complain
ed of ill-health ; and his constitution was too
much wrecked with intemperance to be reclaim
ed. It was difficult for him to aflume resolution
enough to relate his vices and misfortunes ; and
his appearance was so mean andflovenly, that he
Was not willing to be recognized, even when I
called him by name. The terms of intimapy on
which we had formerly aflociated made us both
communicative.
When I knew Joculus, foine years ago, he
dreflcd handlbmefy, poflefled an easy flow of Spi
rits, and was generally esteemed for his amiable
qualifications. His patrimonial estate was fufli
cient, with care and attention, to have afforded
him a decent support. Ithappened unfortunate
ly that he loved pleasure uiofe than business ; and
knew better how to Squander a fortune, than to
keep, or to gain one. Though he was born and
educated in the country, he early conceived an
idea, that he could enjoy life in greater perfec
tion, by taking a relidence in some populous town.
He followed his inclination, and entered at once
into scenes of dilfipation and extravagance. Soon
after he fixed himfelf in a city, he fell into com
pany with a set of profligateyoungfters, whocal
led themselves choicefpirits. This appellation ac
corded so well with the feelings of Joculus,
that he eagerly solicited an admiflion into the
club. As he appeared alight hearted, acconnno
ds»ingyoungman,liis comrades viewed him as an
acqnifition. They foondifcovered the depth of
his purse, and knew intimately his hopes and in
tentions. It was their firft attempt to persuade
him that he had too nobleafpirit to submit to the
drudgery of business, andthat when he liadfpent
his property, he could not be at a loi? for friends.
i- ~,/0
W EDNESDAY, December 23', 1729.
Thus he was beguiled into a course ofidlenefs and
debauchery, which soon plunged him into debt,
and alienated him from his old friends and con
nections.
The lioneft, unfufpedting temper of Joculus,
though it gave his new comrades a controul over
his time and money, was still a source of much
altercation. From his ignorance of human na
ture, hefuppofed that men never spoke but with
sincerity ; never promised but with an intention
to fulfil. He would often repeat in the day, what
he had heard in the revels of the night; andfome
tiiues called in good earnest for the afliftance that
was so lavishly offered, when he stood in no need
of it. 11l this way, he mortified them by the reci
tal of their folly and imprudence ; and vexed them
by his demands on their justice to reimburse his
advances ; and by his appeal to their gsnerofity to
put him into better circumstances. But neither
their justice, their generosity, or their pity afford
ed the lead relief to Jocuius, and he now re
mains as wretched as vice and poverty can render
him. The choice spirits have totally discarded
him, and ridicule him as a low-bred fellow who
remembers too well.
THE OBSERVER.
No. IX.
TO THE PUBLIC CREDITORS.
many of the evils which happen to a
good citizen, he extracts a happiuefs as they
pass. The patriotic creditor, who deposited his
property with the public, has the happiness of
reflecting that his lols contributed to the fafety
of millions, and laid the foundation of an em
pire, in which we hope science and virtue will per
petuate freedom. There have been many delays,
and many things done on the part of the public,
which ought not to have been ; still you have no
reason to defpairof national justice. Somethere
may be who would fpunge the whole, and oblivi
ate your claims—these men are of small number,
and still less influence—they a«sl not from princi
ple, and falfely fuppoling the jneafure would be
popular, have baulked their own expectations of
perferment. As the cafe is eircumftanced, if there
were no sense of justice, a principle of policy
would support your claim with every confederate
man ; for to drive to despair two hundred thou
sand creditors and influential citizens, is an event
too great to be hazarded, aud might produce
worse consequences than the most rigorous pay
ment. Convinced of these fa<fts, the creditors
ought not to be too hasty in their expectations
from the present government. Let it be feenthat
your patience hath not been the eftedt of neceflity,
but from a convi<flion of the deranged state of
the National finances. The mind is apt to vibrate
in extremes, and from too great despondency rife
into sanguine hopes, which never can be realized.
Something of this I have observed in the credi
tors of the nation. To arrange a fclieme of finance
—to liquidate many unsettled claims—to search
from anew, the resources of this great country,
and to adjust the whole into a fyfiem beneficial
to agriculture, commerce and manufactures, re
quires great ability and industry in the official
departments, and the most candid indulgence of
all parties concerned. The gentlemen who have
these duties in trull, poflefs too much good fenp*
to hazard their own responsibility in a sadden
manner, and before they can pollibly ascertain
the means which may be exerted. Returning
order in the treasury department, istliefirft thing
necellary—this you may fee, and for the reft,
there must be time to adjust measures which will
be durable. If the legislature were to decide
without previous information from its executive,
or the executive to endanger its exiftfince by re
commending without knowledge, it would betray
a want of the proper capacity, to relieve a nation
from such confufion as we have experienced. Cer
tainly it will be for the public advantage to stop
the accumulation of interest 011 a great debt ; spee
dily as can be ; you may therefore depend on
everything which is consistent with justice and
humanity to the people, and more thau this ought
not to be granted. The resources of the Uni
ted States are increasing, and in a few years may
do what is at present impoflible. You have no
right to expert, that funds can befuddenly ere<ft
ed and formalized, fufficient to answer the literal
promises of the public ; but ought for the present
to be fatisfied with what in this country hath been
■esteemed small interest for property : On the other
hand, national honor and justice require, that the
funds provided should be in their nature increasing
ones, that the dividend you receive may increase
with the public ability, until it arrives to the point
of equitable interest ; after which, all increase in
rPublijhn■? on IV cdntfday and Salurd ry.J
the national revenue, may become a finkino'fund,
to (to away the general debt, if that be judged
belt. By funds thus conftitutedand sacredly ap
propriated, a comproinife may be made be
tween the nation and its creditors, honorable
for one, and life for the other. In a country of
increafing'comnierce and population,and in which
every year brings a million acres of new land in
to taxable improvement, there is the bed oppor
tunity for funds of the above description. The
State Creditors appear to me in the molt hazar
dous situation, and ought immediately to unite
their influence, that they may be placed on the
fame footing with the creditors of the United
States—the meaftrre mult take place now or never,
—You have a reasonable demand—Your proper
ty was advanced for the common defence, and if
an application is made in l'eafon, you must be
heard. I can forefee but one objection to be
made to this measure, which is,that it willincreafe
the value of State securities, and make them of e
qual goodness with the Continental: But he must
be a churl indeed, who objects 011 this ground,
when it is considered hots much the State creditors
have loft in the principal of their debt, and that
the appreciation will arise from the simple cir
cumstances of giving them a more extended cir
culation, and placing them on the credit of a
known government, and not from laying any
new burdens on the people. The National and
State securities ought to be considered as negocia
blebank stock, and one circumstance on which its
credit and consequent value depends, is the ex
tenfivenefs of its circulation, and the credit of
the government pledged for its redemption. For
these reasons, one hundred pounds placed in the
funds of the United StateS, will be of greater va
lue than the fame sum bearing the fame interest,
in the funds of a single State. lam not an ad
vocate for encreafing the demands on the people
—they have already been too great,and as a friend
of the people I shall endeavor to shew still more
plainlythe impositions they have fuffered. The
people pay a certain sum annually for interest 011
the State debt, and it is of little consequence tp
them, whether this centers in the treasury of the
United States, or of a particular State. If by the
adoption of one general fyftein, both people and
creditor* may be benefited, every friend of his
country will give an influence to complete it.
From a Hartford Paper.
ENGLISH ARTICLE.
A Gentleman from the Weft of England Went
-£*- to London a few weeks ago, to receive ai
legacy of jool. which he propol'ed to bring with
him into the country. His servant, apprised of
his masters errand, imprudently talked of it at
an inn upon the road. A perfonin the room, to
appearance a tradesman, but in reality a highway
man, overheard the conversation, and determin
ed to pollefs hiinfelf of the booty. Pursuing the
gentleman to London, he watched all his mo
tions, and 011 his return into the country was
ready to follow him. On the other fide of Houn
flow, near the turnpike on Smallberry Green,
the robber came up with the chaise, and pafled
it full gallop, but at the gate, not having a single
penny to pay the toll, appearing confuted, he:
took out his handkerchief and begged the turn
pikeman to take it as a pledge. The gentleman
in the chaise having observed the tranfadtion, on.
liis coming up inquired the caule ; and promi
sing to return the handkerchief to the owner, paid
the penny for him. He presently overtook the
ordered his chaise to stop. Pray,
Sir, said he, is this your handkerchief ? If so, I
fear you are 111 great distress. lam indeed, Sir,
replied the man, in the greatest that is pollible.
Allow me, then, replied the gentleman, to relieve
your immediate wants ; and, drawing out his
purse, presented him with five guineas. Your
generosity, said the highwayman, disarms me ; your
five guineas have favedyou five hundred:—and, turn*
ing his horse immediately rode off.
LONDON,
OCTOBER 20.
PERHAPS there is no part of Europe where such
an unrestrained toleration is allowed toper
lons of every religious denomination as in the fe
vcn United Provinces: Amsterdam may be given as
an epitome of the whole. The eftabli/hed reli
gion is Calvinism, and the people of that per
iuadon make up one third ofthe inhabitants, the
Roman Catholics another third, and the Luther
ans, Arminiang, Anabaptists, Quakers and Jews,
conipofe the remainder. Each fedt has its parti
cular places ofworfhip, wliofe pallors may walk
the public llreets with those diftintflions of dress
which immediately characterizes them. No adiciojial taxes are laid upon any particular per
sons abo.ve those of the eitablifhed worfliip : Pro
perty is equally secured, and leases taken by all
on fiinilar terms for any nuitfber of years by every
iubjec't of the State. The Prelbyterian churches,
however alone are allowed to have steeples, and
the preachers of that profeflion are paid by go
ternment, without tithes being imposed, or mi
nisters money collected. The' American States,
however, liave gone farther, for they allow the
light of i'liffrage to citizens and landholders of
every religious denomination, provided they are
wrevioufly qualified by oath, enrolment, or fpe
tified property.
It is a very lingular circumstance, but not more
lingular than true,that in theßullian empire there
are more lkips of war than merchantmen.
Theßullian merchantmen, built in RuJlia, and
remaining the property of fubje&s of that em
dire, do not exceed seventy. This will appeat
the more surprising as the population of the Ruf
fian empire exceeds 24,000,000 of inhabitants.
The King of Pruflia is doing every thing in his
power to lender himfelf extremely popular in
Poland, and by means of his popularity to eftab
-1 iin an influence there, that will make him matter
of the councils of that country.
With this view he lately cauled a medal to be
struck, the fubjett of which alludes to certain
measures which have lately taken place in Poland
under the aufpicesof Prulfia, and particularly to
tlie great augmentation of the army.
This medal represents 011 one fide the Genius
of Poland, holding a drawn sword, with this mot
to —Propria Marte tuta—and 011 the exergue the
following words, Auflo txercitu, 1739,
On the other fide is a bull of the famous John
Sobiefki, KingofPoland, with this motto, I rifca
virtue felix —and round che bull these words, —
Concordia Cnmitiorum Convocatorum, 1788.
The Pruilian envoy at the court of Warsaw pre
sented this medal, struck in gold, to his Polish
Majesty, in the name ofthe King ofPrullia—and
two others, in silver, to the two marshals of the
Diet, in the name ofthe Monarch.
These medals were struck at Berlin.
The King has not been out of doors since liis
removal to Paris. Heliasnot even amused hiin
felf in his favorite exercise of walking, though
the gardens of the Thuilleries hold out such a
charming invitation.
The terrors of a conspiracy, faidtobe formed
in Paris, leilon daily, though the Parisians conti
nue in the firm opinion that it was on the point
to be carried into execution. The reportsoll this
fubjetft have been greatly exaggerated, such as
cloathing and arms having been found concealed
for 1 j,OOO men, &c. not a tittle of which has an}
truth. The city, however, has taken every pre
caution, in the fame manner as if it was threaten
ed, by mounting double and trebleguards in those
quarters ofthe town molt fufpetfted. The gates
were Jhut for several days during the search, and
it is only two days since people were fuffered to
pass in and out ofthe city without molestation or
enquiry.
The National Cockade is in future to be worn
by all the troops in the kingdom without diltinc
tion, and it is to be the fubftitutc for the white one.
Thefervants of Paris have resolved to raise
for the public use, the sum of one million of li
tres, or about forty thoufaud guineas.
AN AFFECTING EVENT.
Lately were executed at Old Heath, neat
Shrewsbury pursuant to their sentence at our lafl
aflizes, Thomas Phipps, Esq. the elder, and Tho
mas Fhipps, the younger (father and only son) oi
Llwynmaplis, in this county, for forging and ut
tering a note of hand for 2bl. purportingto be the
note of Mr. Richard Coleman, of Of weltry, know
ing the fame to have been forged.
It was proved on the trial of these unfortnnatt
gentlemen, that Mr. Coleman never had any trans
actions with Mr. Phipps that required the signing
of any note whatever. Thar about Chriflmas last,
Mr. Coleman was served with a writ, by order of
Mr. Phipps .it his own filit, which action Mr. C.
defended ; that Mr. Phipps not supporting it, non
pros was signed in the action, with al. 3s. costs ;
whereupon Mr. Phipps and his son, with William
Thomas, their clerk, made an affidavit, stating,
that the note was for trefy>afs in carrying away
some hay from off the land of one of Mr. Phipps'
tenants, which Mr. Coleman had taken. M
The affidavit is at full length in the printed trial,
wherein it appears, that Phipps the elder swears
only to a conversation with Coleman ; on which
the Learned judge observed, the son appeared to
have milled the father in rhe matter, Upon this
affidavit the Court of Exchequer granted a rule to
jlievv cause why the nonpros should not be ferafide.
Mr. Coleman infilling that the note was a forge
ry, the matter retted in suspense, till the event
of tfiis prosecution. After a full hearing of the
evidence on both fides, and the Jndge's charge
to the Jury, the two Phipps's were pronounced
guilty of uttering and ptibiifhing the note, know
ing the fame to'be forged. The Judge immedi
ately palled sentence of death upon them, and
recommended the [ tiry to acquit William Thomas,
who was according by found not guilty.
Mr. Plnpps and his son, from the time of their
condemnation till the morning of their execution,
persisted in their innocence. However, before
they left the goal, young Fhippsconfefl'ed thathe
committed the forgery, avowing his father's in
nocence of it, and ignorance of its being forged,
when publiflied. They were taken in a mourn
ing coach to the place of execution, accompanied
by a clergyman, and another pious person, who
attended them almost daily since their condemna
tion. On their way to the fatal tree, the father
said to the son, " Tommy, thou halt brought roe
to this fhameful end, but I freely forgive thee."
To which the son made no reply. It being re
markable wet weather, thejJevotions were chiefly
performed in the coach.
When the awful moment arrived that they mull
leave the fable vehicle, Mr. Phippsfaidto his son,
" You have brought me hither, do you lead the
way;" which the youth accordingly did, and In
the mod composed manner ascended the ladder to
a temporary fcaffold, erected on purpose, fol
lowed by his father. When the devotions were
finiihed, and the convitfis tied np, they embraced
each other, and in a few moments the execution
er let down the fcaffoJd and they were launched
into eternity, amidst a vast concourse of deeply
affected spectators, beholding a parent and child
fuffering an ignominious deatii lor violating the
laws of their country.
Mr. Phipps was in his 47th year, and his son
just 2oyearsof age, two days before his execution.
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
DcJRING a short residence in England I be
came acquainted with that celebrated Statesman,
and Patriot, Mr. HARTLEY—who diftinguiihed
himfelfby his opposition to those measures, which
101 l America to the Empire of Britain forever.
He favored me with correcfl copies of Several
Speeches made by him on important occasions
which I now fend you for re-publication, that
they may be preserved as monuments of the wis
dom, penetration, and patriotism of the author
—while they serve to exhibit the madness and
folly of that ministry, who, with their eyes open,
precipitated the Briiifli nation into a ruinous war,
which the just and equitable politics of this gen
tlemen, and his com-patriots, if they had been
attended to, would have prevented.
T. T.
HOUSE of COMMONS, Feb. 27, 1775*.
LONDON.
LORD NORTH'S PROPOSITION.
MR. HARTLEY.
I AM called upon on this occasion particularly
as I made a conciliatory proposition on this fub
jeift of the American disputes to the House before
Christmas, which I (hall, at a proper time, offer
to the House as a regular motion. The proposi
tion alluded to, was to make a free requisition to
the colonies for a supply towards the expence of
defending, protecting, andfecuring the colonies.
The present motion is not free but compulsory
it is attended with menacesand threats, therefore
not a lenient or conciliatory measure, but only
thrown out as such for a pretext. To fay, give
me as much money as I wifti, till I fay enough, or
I will take it from you, and then to call such a
proposition conciliatory for peacc, is insult added
to opprelfion. The proposition which I made be
fore Christmas, was, what it appeared, a free re
quisition. A requisition by a secretary of State is
an ancient, legal, approved, constitutional way.
It Urates the cafe, represents the services neceflary
to be done, and requires the free aid of the fub
jecflfor those neceflary services, leaving, as a con
stitutional controul, to the fubjedt whose money
is required, the judgment upon the neceflity of
the services stated, and the right of appropriating
the money so granted. How totally different
from this proposition is that before us now, which
fays neither more nor less than this—give me what
1 ask, leaving likewise the quantity to iny discre
tion, or I will take it by force. Besides, this pro
fition is a direift breach of faith towards America,
who have been allured by a circular letter from
the secretary of State, that his Majesty's ministers
never meant,nor ever would entertain the thought
of railing a revenue in America by taxing. This
proposition before us is a direift breach of the
public faith so pledged in America, by a circuj-.-
letter from a secretary of state, in which his Ma'
jefty's royal word was particularly plighted. The
noble Lord's propofition,who was minister in this
house when the above mentioned circular lette
was written, is that we will forbear to taxjuftf u
long as they will give us a revenue to our CO J
tent. What is this if it |be not extorting a reve".
nue by threats of taxing ? The only conceflibu
contained in this proportion is, that it gives up
at once the mode of our proceedings with Ameri
ca for these lall ten years, as it confers that it
would be proper to proceed in the way of requifi.
tions. This proposition pretends to condemn the
exercise of taxation before you have made are
quifition at least, and have met with a refufal
though by uniting them-in the fame proposition'
it destroys the very nature of the requisition by
making it compulsory.
Let us enquire now whether ever North Ame
rica did refufe to contribute to the common de
fence upon requisition ; so far from it that tliev
have contributed in cafe of necessity, even beyond
their abilities, as the records of thanks to them,
and retribution for the excels of the zeal and fidel
ity, which ft and annually upon your journals
during the late war, do fully and inconteftiblv
prove. Throughout the whole course of this
conteftfincethe war, they have over and over of
fered to contribute to the neceflary supply when
called upon in a conflitutionaliuay. 1 have extract
ed proofs of these from addreftes, petitions, &c.
for the whole period of the last ten years. Their
petitionsyouhave thrown out of your doors—their
repeated addreftes, remonstrances, letters, and
memorials you have treated with contempt. 1
have now hand manyproofs that they have
offered to pay upon requisition according to the
ut 111 oft of their abilities, ifthoferequilitionswere
made in a legal and constitutional way. I have
collected offers of this kind, and I have got them
from, I think, almost every colony. I can lliew
them repeatedly from Mallachufetts Bay, from
New-York, New-Jersey, Maryland, Virginia,
Pennsylvania, Carolina, and these repeated from
time to time during the whole of this contest. 1
have them in my hand, and will beg to read them
to the House. [Reads them.~\ And to conclude
the whole, North America aflembled at the conti
nental congress pledge themselves, That whenever
the exigencies oj the State Jbalt require a fuppl),tht)
will, as they have always heretofore done, contribute
their full proportion of men and money. The terms
in which all these offers are expressed, are clear,
uniform and explicit. All that they require, is,
that they may stand upon the footing of freemen
and free British fubjefts, and giving and granting
their own money ; for these reasons I objeftto
the motion before us, and shall, with thepermif
fion of the House, endeavor to put the propofi.
tion upon its proper grounds by another motion
on fonie future day.
UNITED STATES.
PITTSBURG, November 28.
BY Simon M'Grew lately from Detroit, we
are informed, that while at that place, aveffet
had arrived with cannon ant) stores forthegar
rifon, which is now making very strong, and
there is every appearance of an intention tohoM
it against force.
It is with regret we announce to the public,
the death of the Hon. Samuel H. Parsons, one
of the judges of the western territory. He had
accompanied captain Hart as far as the Salt
Licks, on his way to Giahaga, and was on his
return, down Big Beaver creek, in a can® with
one man, when coming over the falls, the can®
was daflied to pieces,and they both were drowned.
To delay the business of dividing the .Ohio
Company lands, observes a correfpondeitt, woul
not only be highly injurious to the propri etor °
generaly, but to many industrious families, that
have long been anxiously waiting an event whici
may accommodate them with the opportunity 0
purchasing small tratfts for plantations, and e
coming settlers in that part of the western teirito
ry, and certainly would deprive the company
an acquiiition of inhabitants which'every fpimg
embarkation upon the head waters (always con
lifting of multitudes without any fixed dcftii iatloll J
might enable them to obtain.FROM Till MASSACHUSETTS CUNT IN EL.
Boston, dec. 12.
TWELFTH FEDERAL PILLAR.
NORTH CAROLINA.
It is with a great degree of fatisfartion wean
bounce to the public, the RATIFICATION of
the CONSTITUTION of the UNITED STATES
by the refpetftable State of NORTH-CAROLI
NA; the intelligence of -which agreeable event
we received yesterday morning, by Capt. To si ah
Bacon, mailer of the Peterjburgh Packet, in FIVE
DAYS from North-Carolina. The particulars are :
The Convention of North-Carolina met at Fa v
etteville, the lit November, and after debating the
Confhtution throughout, the 20th November the
question of Ratification was put, and palled in the
affirmative—
YEAS,
NAYS, 75
MAJORITY, 17S
This intelligence was received at Edtnton, by
express, on the eveningof the 30th of November.
The next morning the colours belonging to the
town, and on board the shipping were hoilted.
At 'Twelve o'clock Twelve cannon were discharg
ed, in honor of the several States in Union—and
a collation provided for the fpetftators. Atthree
o'clock, an elegant dinner was provided at the
Merchant's Coffee-Ho uf'e, and after dinner the
following toasts were drank .
1. The United States of America.
2. The President of the United States.
3. The Vice-President, and Officers of the Unit
ed States.
4. The King of France, and French Nation.
5. All the powers of Europe, in alliance with
America.
6. Our late Convention.
7. The Governor and State of North-Caro
lina.
8. May the New Con stitution be a blessing
to the people.
9. Commerce, Agriculture and Manufactures.
10. The Officers, Soldiers and Patriots, who
diitinguifiied themselves in the late army. '
11. The fair Daughters of Columbia.
12. May the State of Rhode-IJland follow the
example of our late Convention.
111 the evening, Twelve large lantliorns were
hoisted on the flag-Half belonging to the town ;
the lanthorn of the Court-House, and several of
the bouses, were beautifully illuminated; and a
very large bonfire made at the back of the town.
The bells of ( this town [Boilon] rung one hour
on this*joyful occalion.
OF NORTH-CAROLINA.
The liiltory of this State, now the more intereft
as h has become a member of the Union, is
lets known than that of any of the other States.
It was fettled in 1710, is 750 miles in length, and
110 in breadth—inhabitants 270,000, of which
60,000 are Negroes. The North-Caroliuians are
inoftly Planters—their exports tar, pitch, turpen
tine, rozin, Indian coin,peltry, lumber, tobacco,
ginleng, snake root, &c. &c.—Agreeably to the
Constitution, North-Carolina will fendfive Repre
sentatives to Couorefs.
O
THE IMPORTANCE OF THE CLASSICS.
AN EXTRACT FKOM DR. BLAIR.
XT is in vain also to allcdge, that the reputation of the Ancient
-i. Foets, and Orators, is owing to authority, to pedantry, and
to the prejudices of education, transmitted from age to age.
j n" " trUC 'i art t ' le Aut ' lors P' u ' nto our ha "ds at schools
and colleges, and by that means wc have now an early prepollcf
lion in their favor; but how came they to gain the pofTeffion of
colleges and schools ? Plainly, by the high fame which these Au
thors had among their own cotemporanes. For the Greek and
Latin were not alwavs dead languages. There was a time, when
Homer, V irgil,»nd Horace, were view'ed in the fame light as we
now view Drydcn, Pope, and Addifon. It is not to commenta
tors and universities, that the claflics are indebted for their fame.
, . became dallies and school-books, in confequencc of the
High admiration which was paid them by the bell judges in their
own country and nation. As early as the days of Juvenal, who
wrote under the reign of Domitian, we find Virgil and Horace
Become the llandard books in the education of youth.
Quot Jiabent putri, cum fetus decolor rjfet
Flaccus. etharerct nigro juligo Marom. Sat. 7.*
From this general principle, then, of the reputation of great
a " cient Classics bc 'ng <0 early, so lasting, so universal, among all
themoft polilhed nations, we may justly and boldly infer that
•heir reputation cannot be wholly unjust, but mull have a solid
foundation in the merit of their writings.
Of corre£fc and finifhed writing in some works of taste, the
moderns may afford ufeful patterns ; but for all that belongs to
original genius, to spirited, masterly and high execution* our best
and most happy ideas are, generally speaking, drawn from the
Ancients. In Epic Poetry, for instance, Homer and Virgil, to
this day, stand not within many degrees to any rival. Orators,
uch as Cicero and Dcmofthenes, we have none. In history, not
wit i landing some defers, which I am afterwards to mention in
or ' ca * Plans, it may be fafely asserted, that we have
UC j * or * ca l narration, so clegant, so pi&urefque, so anima
ted, and interesting as that of Herpdotus, Thucydides,Xenophon,
> lv y, Tacitus and Salluft. Although the conduct ot the drama
may be admitted to have received lome improvements, yet for
poetry and sentiment we have nothing to equal Sophocles and
npides ; nor any dialogue in Comedy, that comes up to the
corrett, graceful, and elegant simplicity of Terence. We have
?° UC ve as those of Tibullus ;no such pastorals as
! mC °. , °" ltus ' si and for Lyric Poetry, Horace stands quite
riva er. The name cannot be iVientioned without
J particular encomium. That " Curiofa Felicitas," which Pe
"n.u as remarked in his ex predion ; the sweetness, elegance,
anj fpmr <>t many of Ins Odes, thp thorough knowledge of the
excellent Itfntimtnts,* and natural easy manner which
diitinguilnes his Satyres «ind Epiltles, all contribute to render him
one of thole very few authors who»n one never tires of reading;
and rom whom alone, were every other monument destroyed,
*\e iou!d he Fed to form a very high idea of the taste and genius
of the Anguftan Age. °
To all such, then, as wish to form their taste, and nourish their
genius, let me warmly recommend the afliduous study of the An
cient dallies, both Greek, and Roman.
h'oflurna verjate manu, verjate diurna. +■
Without a considerable Acquaintance -Wuh them, no man can be
reckoned a polite scholar; and he wiil want many <tfliftances for
vvntingand speaking well, which the knowledge of such Authors
would oftord him. Any one has great reafori to fiifped his own
tjfte, who receives little or no pleasure from the perusal of'Wri
tmgs, which so many ages and nations have consented in holding
up as objects of admiration. And I am persuaded, it will be
ound, that in proportion as the Anciertts are generally studied
and admired, or are unknown and disregarded in any country,
good talte and good composition will flourifh, or decline. They
aie commonly none but the ignorant or fuperficial, who Under
value them.
notes.
Then t/,ou art bound to fmcU, on either hand y
u am P y as fchoot-boys Jland,
t Ij* RA C E Ho * rca d in his own fully'd book,
s nd Virgil ' sjacred page was all befmear'd with smoke.
, Dhyden.
t k Read them by day—dndJludy them by night."
From Mr. Loudon's paper ojyejlerday.
rOR THE gazette of the united states.
THE GUEST. \o. VII.
" His greatest action which we find,
(( " Wai, that he walh'd his hand j anddin'd."
> V E aremiftaken," fays the Duke de Roche
foucalt, "if we think that none but the more hot
and violent palfions, such as love and ambition, do
triumph over the reft. Laziness, as weak and
languishing as it is, feJdom fails of subduing them.
It gets the better ot all our defigus, and controuls
all the atTtions of our life ; and both our passions
and our virtues are, together consumed infenfiblv
by It."
h evv men have any idea, how great a proportion
of indolence enters into the composition of our
nature. If men were notnaturally inclined to be
indolent, we should find very few, who really
would be so. It is evident, upon a little furvev,
that no men are so unhappy as those that are idle.
And though man is a being made for adtivitv, vet
a gi'eat many people choose to be busy in doing
nothing. I mean that men ought to be active in
order to be happy. But as many men are avgrfe
to labour, their restless spirit drives them to fucli
methods of getting rid of time as moil properly
may be called idleness. It may seem odd to make
the aflertion, but it is very true, that some per
sons weary themselves exceedingly in finding out
how to be idle. I hose, who go about afkingnews
in the streets to know who has got a wife or a
place, are of this stamp. We may also include
in this decription, those fuperficial visitants who
go to fee folks becaufethey are not at home. There
are several others of this kind who, as it were,
labor to be lazy.
Many men are obliged to stretch their ingen
uity to devise modes of wearing away their time.
This will be the cafe with those who have no fix
ed employment. 11 should therefore be a fettled
maxim with every person, that unless he is em
ployed in J'omething ufefnl, he cannot meet with
contentment.
[Erratum—ln last number of the Guest, line 10th from the
, top, lor " wind" read *|W.]
For Ike GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
ON CHARITY SCHOOLS.
/CHARITY Schools owe their rife undoubtedly
V co those innate principles of benevolence
which the Deity hath imprefled upon the human
heart. But charity in these inftances,|may with pro
priety be laid to begin at home ; and coimnonly ends
there too. Indeed, from the nature of these institu
tions, it must always be found, that they are not
coinpeient to the design. Particular denomina
tions and societies, form these plans for the ex
climve advantage of the poor of their own berfua
fioni But with the aid derived from the contri
butions of the charitable of other denominations
was it ever known that all the poor children, -with
out exception, of the society which is designed to
be particularly benefited, were, or could be ac
commodated by them > Whatis the consequence >
A charge of partiality; and this idea cannot be
erased from the mind of a parent, wlu Handing
exartly on the fame ground with his favored
neighbor, cannot his get child admitted. Cha
rity schools, where the object extends to cloathinp
poor children, prove a very expensive mode of
conferring our bounty, without producing thfe
good intended, in any degree commensurate td
the charge. A charity school for 50 or 60 children
upon this plan, will cost probably fevcn or ei'rhc
hundred pounds per annum: ,t I'diii that would
support two fciiools, in which from Ijb to 200
children might be equally well taught. I£s cx
pence of cloathing being the heavielt cliuts V, is
the 1110 ft useless, and might be saved ; as ii ij"i in
material how children are clad, provided tliev
are clean ; for uniformity in cloaths does not faci -
litate theirprogrefs in learning; and " he that
hears the young ravens when they cry," does in
the course of his providence, enable "the poorest
of our citizens to provide futh covering for their
offspring as would be folficient for them to attend
school in. In addition to the incompetency of
the funds to support charity schools, and the ut
ter impoHibiltty of giving general, much less uni
versal S,atisfadtion, there is in the minds of the
free citizens of tliefe States, a principle of con
scious independency, which revolts from the idea
of being under obligations to charity, for th« edu
cation of their children, as fully as it does
to be indebted to it for the bleilings of freedom and
civil society. That charity lchools cannot be com
petent to the obje(ftof making universal provision
for the education of the poor, is exemplified in the
city of Loudon ; where there are the molt extenlive
inllitutio'ns of this kind, that are to be found upon
thefaceof theglobe. Let us advert to facfts. At the
late procession of the King to St. Paul's it is said
there were fix thousand charity fcliolars mustered,
doubtless the -whole that could be collected—for we
well know that absence is not difpenled with on
such occasions—six thousand appears a large num
ber—but how niany times fix thouland mull re
main to be brought up in ignorance among a mil
lion of inhabitants, when only fix thousand are
provided for—and a great proportion of these,
not the pooreit—for English authors will inform
us that the poor, are not always benefited by
tliofe institutions originally designed for the poor.
In the I'm all Hate of Connecticut, there are nt»
charity schools j but there are upwards of five
hu.\dred fre£ public schools. The digni
ty of human nature —the rights of property, and
adue renfe of the bleftings of government and
civil liberty, are 110 where better underltood, or
more extensively enjoyed than in thai; highly fa
vored land of equality and freedom. CIVIS.
NEW-YORK, DECEMBER 23.
Members of Conarefs now in this city : Senate— Pit titn 1 iii
of tjic Senate—Mr. Da lton; Mr. Johnson j Mr.ScHuvm ,
Mr. King ; Mr. Izard; Mr. BvT t i*. Reprefevtatwes—
Mr. Gilman; Mr. Gerry ; Mr. U*«akce; Mr. Benson:
Mr. Scott: Mr. Coi.es; Mr. Brown ; Mr. Griffin; Mr.
Hvjcer; Mr. Smith, of South-CaTrflma.
The public expectation begins to awaken at tlie
approaching felons of Congrrffs; When we re
flecton the various and difficult objedts to be ac
complished by our legislators, we must fuppole
their talk is weighty and critical. The patience
and candor of the people will be equal, we hope,
to every reasonable allowance for any delays or
ei 1 ors that inevitably result from circumstances
so new and embarrafled.
1 he tranquility and contentment that prevails
among the citizens of the United States, under
the operation of the national government, are at
proof of their general deterrtiination to give it
Support. If we may judge from appearance, the;
vaiious branches of the executive
are filled with such characters,as do honor to their
appointments and give general Satisfaction to the
people. When men of abilities and integrity are
at the head of affairs, we may always expect" that
the government will operate," in such a manner,
as to obtain popular Sanction and promote the
important ends of political aflociation.
It is worthy of contemplation how rapidly the
people of this country are extricating themselveS
from the calamities and burdens of the late war.
Many towns that were laid waste by the ravages
of the enemyare restored to their former size and
prosperity. The progress of an industrious fru
gal people, towards wealth and comfort may be
accelerated to such a degree as almost to elude cal
culation. We have many striking examples how
Jooii the disasters of fire, and manj other misfor
tunes may be Surmounted, when once the tjeople
allume resolution, andpraitife industry.
The amendments to the Constitution proposed
by Congrefsto the Several States,appear to receive
that cordial approbation which does honor to the
candor and patriotism of the refpedlive State Le
gillatui es, to whom they have beenfubmitted
If they do not in every refped; meet the ideas of
thole who never liked the Constitution, it ought
to be remembered that they are the result of a
concefnon on the part of the majority, who were
Satisfied with the system in its original form
but from the best motives were induced to ac
quielce in amendments to reconcile, if poifible,
opposition, and to conciliate the doubting.
We are muck favored by the " Sketch on Poetry"— want 0f
room prevents Us infei tion this day ; but it jhall appear in our next.
c, j c , ARRIVALS -—XEfV-YORK.
Saturdiy Schorr Sally, Patterfon, Shelhurne, 5 days.
Sloop Sally, Sampson, Boston. 1 7 days
Monday Sloop Saratoga, Thrathcr, C .pe Fare, 28days.
Sloop Polly, Bartlett, CapeFiue, 28 days.MR. ADAMSS LETTERS.
LETTER XXIV.
Amsterdam, Oct. 27, 1780.
S J R ,
QUESTION twcnty-feven.—How was the fitr.'a
•itirr. >of manujaCn/res, manual art, and trade
in general, at the beginning of this war P What
ihange have they fujfered ?"
Manufactures in general never flourifhed in
America. They were never attended to only by
women and children, who could not work in the
field, and by men at certain seasons of the year,
and at certain intervals of time when they could
not be employed in the cultivation of the lands ;
bccaufe that labor upon land, in that country, is
more profitable than in manufactures. Tliefe
they could importand purchase, with the produce
of their foil, cheaper than they could make them.
The cause of this, is the plenty of wild land :
A day s work, worth two (hillings, upon wild
land, not only produced two shillings in the crop,
but made the land worth two /hillings more :
\V hereas a day's work of the fame price, applied
to manufactures, produced only the two Shillings.
Since the war, however, freight and insurance
have been so high, that manufactures have been
more attended to. Manufactures of falt-petre,
fait, powder, cannon, arms, have been intro
duced ; cloathing, in wool and flax, has been
made ; and many other neceflary things: But
these, for the reason given before, will last no
longer than the war, or than the hazard of their
trade.
America is the country of raw materials, and
of commerce enough to carry them to a good
market ; but Europe is the country for manufac
tures and commerce. Thus Europe and Ameri
ca will be blelfings, to each other, if some male
volent policy does not fruflrate the purposes of
nature. I have the honor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
FROM THE PENNSYLVANIA GAZETTE.
To our BRETHREN, the CITIZENS of NEW
JERSEY.
EVERY friend of our national prosperity mull
feel himfelf interefled in your plan of main
taining your poor, by means of manufactures.
It is at once wife and humane. The object of
theprefent little address is, to recommend to you
to take great care in fixing the feats of your se
veral factories. Let th#m unite these three ob
jects—ift. A fund of fuel that will not fail, or
access to it.—2d. A fund of forage, that will be
equal to the supply of an encreafing and accu
mulated population.—3d. As interior a situation
as can be found, which pofl'eflcs the firft two re
quisites, that a market may be afforded for the
produce of those farms, that are at prefeut sub
ject to a heavy expence of carting.
Let your females be taught to weave. It k
more healthful than many of the sedentary em
ployments of their sex, such as knitting, needle
work, carding and spinning. Weaving a yard of
jean or plain cotton fluff is worth 7d. or Hd. specie,
»nd a Ready person may easily weave seven yards
in a day : 1 hat is, jfit or 4f. per day may be
earned by a female weaver. A young woman
that can read and write, and earn four shillings
specie a day, is well endowed. No prudent
young man need be afraid to marry her : This
we ought to attend to among ourselves : In the
mean time it is suggested, from our due regard
to you likewise.
Endeavor to have a command of vrater. Ma
chines that go by water may work wonders :
They have enabled the British nation to advance
their cotten manufactures two or three hundred
per cent, in a very few years.
Look immediately to youi- inland navigation
and main roads. Cheap carriage of rawmateri
als, fuel and provisions, are the greatefl of all
aids to manufactures.
You have wifely banished your paper tender.
Commerce, foreign and domestic, sickens at the
fight of it. Since the federal constitution ha 3 re
moved all danger of our having a paper tender,
our trade is advanced fifty per cent. How has
this happened ? Our monied people can trust their
cash abroad, and have brought their coin into
circulation. The fame thing will happen to yon
in a year or two. A million of specie dollars have
been introduced into bnfinefs in this State since
the peace, by persons who have come from abroad
to fettle among us. Would they have done this
if we had a paper lawful render ? No. Nor will
prudent foreigners ever introduce their money
into the manufactures, internal trade or foreign
commerce of a country, that has paper money,
unless it be to flcece the inhabitants by profits of
cent per cent.
Look well to your habits of living. Though
without foreign trade, do nor imported spirits coll
you more than all your taxes ? Is this neceflary ?
Could you not draw from your lands those excel
lent and wliolefome ale, beer
metheglin and cyder.
Brethren of Newjerfey, rouse yourselves.
LcJt iuduftry, economy, and the nfe of home
made articles become a fafliion. They will be
more honorable than purple and fine linen, and
willencreafe the power of your contry.
THECITIZENS OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Decetnber qth, 1789.
ON THE VANITY OF YOUTHFUL HOPES.
IN life's gay morn, what vivid hues
Adorn the animating views,
By flattering fancy drawn ?
No storms with gloomy afpeft rife,
To cloud the azure of the skies,
No mills obfeure the dawn.
With looks invariably gay,
Young Expectation points the way
To ever blifsful shades,
Where odours scent the breath of morn,
Where roses bloom without a thorn,
And music fills the glades.
Enraptur'd with the diflant view,
Youth thinks its fi&ious beauties true,
And springs the prizeto gain ;
His gralp the gay illusion flies :
Experience thus the cheat descries,
And proves his hopes are \ain.
The path of life tho' flowers adorn,
Yet often will the rugged thorn
Amidst the flowers arise ;
Expe& not then on earth to share
Enjoyment unallay'd by care,
But seek it in the skies.
ANECDOTE.
A CELEBRATED councellor had been labor
ing in a lon£ winded fpeeeh to the jury.
Tlie verdkft being tound againft'hiin,zounds ! ex
claimed he, here have I been spending my breath
for an hour vainly endeavoring to convince twelve
blockheads of a point that is as clear as demon
stration, I believe my countrymen have been ino
culated for dulnefs.—That may be,faidthe other
councellor who had gained thecaufe,but you,un
like your countrymen,have it in the natural waj'.
PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
ABSTRACT of JOURNAL of the first SESSION
of the SENATE of the UNITED STATES.
THURSDAY, July 30.
PROCEEDED to a third reading of the bill, entitled, " An ast
for fettling the acconnts between the United States and indi
vidual States," and, Refolvcd that the Senate do concur therein
and the Secretary notified the House of Representatives accord!
lugly.
FRIDAY, July 3*.
Proceeded to a third rcadiugof the bill,entitled, "An ast to ef.
tabliffi the Treasury Department."
On thequeftion, fliall the words, " And anafliftantto the Secre
tary of the Treasury," at the end of the firft paragraph, be stricken
out i Faffed in the negative.
On motion to strike out the words' " Secretary of the Treasury "
and insert, " Three Superintendents of the Treasury," it palled in
the negative : And 00 the qurftion upon the bill, Resolved, That
the Senate do concur therein with amendments.
The Secretary carricd the bill, entitled " An ast toeftablifh the
Treasury Department," tothe House of Representatives, concurred
in with Amendments.
Also the concurrence of the Senate in the resolve of the 31 ft July
and the appointment of Mr. Wingatea ftandingcommittee, jointly
with the committee of the House to examine and present the en
rolled bills that may pass the Senate and House of Representatives
from time to time.
MONDAY, Augnft 3.
The bill, entitled, « An aftfor the eftabliffiment and support of
light-houses, bcacons and buoys," concurred in with amendments
was carried to the House of Representatives by the Secretary. '
TUESDAY, August 4.
Proceeded to a third reading a bill, entitled, " An ast to estab
lish an Executive Dcpaitment, to be denominated the Depait
ment of War".
On motion toftrike out these words—in line 6th and 7th," And
Naval," " Ships," "Or naval affairs;" Palled in the negative
Oil motion to strike out the words—line 14th, " Aud who
whenever the said principal officer (hall be removed from office by
the Prefijentof the United States ;"
And the yeas and nays being required by one fifth of the Se
nators present, the determination was as follows :
YEAS. Mr. Butler, Mi. Few, Mr. Gunn, Mr. Grayfon, Mr
Johnson, Mr. Izard, Mr. Langdon, Mr. Lee, Mr. Wingate.' q
NAYS. Mr. Carroll, Mr. Dalton, Mr. Ellfworth, Mr Elmer
Mr. Henry, Mr. King, Mr. Morris, Mi. Read, Mr. Schuyler Mr'
Strong. io. / » ?
So the question was loft, and the words proposed to be ftfuck
out, were retained ; and upon the question on the bill,
Resolved, That the Senate do concur therein with amendments :
Which bill, with the amendments was carried to the Houle of
Representatives.
Proceeded to the third reading of a bill, eutitled, " An ast to
provide for the government of the territory north-weft of the Ri
▼er Ohio."
On motion to insert these words after the word " President '
.n the last line of thclccond feftion, « By and with the confenl of
the Senate
And the yeas and nays being required by one fifth of the Sena
tor* present, the determination was as follows ;
YEAS. Mr. Butler, Mr. Few, Mr. Gunn, Mr. Grayfon Mr
Johnson, Mr. liard, Mr. I.angdon, Mr. Wingate. 8.
NAYS. Mr. Carroll, Mr. Dalton, Mr. Ellfworth, Mr Etm-r
Mr. Henry, Mr. Kinj, Mr. Morris, Mr. Read, Mr. Schuyler Mr'
Strong. 10.
So it paired.in the negative And on the queftioi. ypoa. the
bill, as it wa*, r
Refolvcd, toconcui therein with amendments :
Which bill, with the amendments, waicamed to the House of
Representatives.
A melfage from the House of Mr Becklev ■
Who brougtot up a bill, entitled, " An ast .'or making compel
tioft to tlie Prcftduit sad Vice Prefidentof die I' j
and dcfired the concurrence of the Senate therein ..J S^tes,'
Informed the Senate that the House had ~-rrrH l
ments on the bill, entitled, "An aftfor the Jablifc®. am?nd
port of light-houses, beacons, and buoys" en t andiup.
Brought up the acceptance, by the House of Renrrl, ,
a report of a joint committee upon the mode ot nrrf of
drelfes, the enrollment of bills, &c P re icntingad-
Together with the appoinincnt of Mr. Wadfwr>«h ». „
and Mr. Hartley, a committee, to join with a Com'nJk 7°"'
Senate, to be appointed for the purpose "To c-vnfj f ttc
port, when it will be conventent i° hnd
of the present session of Congref, (hould take nlacr 'T"™®
iider and report such business, now before CoLr r' andtoc °a.
be fimfhed before the adjournment, and such afmi' I
ently poilponed to the next sessions; and also CO nrl "T'"
port such matters now before Congress but w! IK ' aiu ' r c-'
ceffary (hould be considered and determined by Con-res £?'"
an adjournment. 1 un orcis, before
WIDNESDAY, August 5.
Proceeded to a firft reading of a bill, entitled, « Anaftfn, J
lowing a compcnfalion to the President and Vice Prl
United States," and afligned to-morrow for a second rel)
Appointed Mr. Strong, Mr. Ellfworth, and Mr Carroll g '
mittee, jointly with the committee of the House of bJj! C ° m "
to that purpose appointed, to consider what bulinefs *T'T''
to be afcled upon prior to an adjonrnmcnt, and to tcuor " '
time at which an adjournment shall take place,
position from the House of Reprefentat.ves of the 4 thofO"*
WEDNESDAY,
Mr. Butler, in behalf of the committee to whom it wasre f„, a
to arrange and br.ng forward a system to regulate trade an/
course between the United States, and the territory of other n„
ers in North-America and the Weft-Indies"— •
Reported, That it will be expedient to pass a law for;m„„r
increased duty of tonnage, for a limited time, on all foreLS
and other veflels that (hall load in the United States with then
duce of the fame, to any port or place in America whereto the ves
sels of the United States are not permitted to carry their own nr.
duce; but such a law being of the nature of a revenue law
committee conceive, that the originating a bill for that purpose „
by the Constitution, exdufively placed in the House of Kenrrfm'
tatives—
Your Committee beg leave further to report, as their opinion
that it will be expedient to direffc a bill to be brought in forim'
pofingfimilar reft raints upon the trade of the European fcttlementi
in America with the United States, that arc imposed on the trade
of the United States with thofc fettlemcnts.
Resolved, That the firft clause of this report be accepted, i,J
that the remainder of the report be recommitted, and that' it W
an mftrufiion to the Committee, in cafe it (hall be their oiinioti
that a legislative provision ought to be made on the fubjeft of the
commitment, to report a billforthat purpose—And that Mr. EH.
worth, Mr. King, and Mr. Read be added to the committee.
Adjourned, (To tc continued.)
ADVERTISEMENT.
EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNALSF THE OHIO COMPANY.
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Agents, it is very much
for the interest of the proprietors at large, chat all the
lands of the purchase should be divided and allotted as immedi
ately as may be—And in order to accommodate them generally,
by the option of clafling as they may think proper, and drawing
their rights or (hares (where they may poflfefs more than oncf
either together in contiguity, or by detaching and annexing them
to diftinft claffesor divisions (at their own election) to give them
the greater chance for variety in foil and fituation—lt is imani
moufly refolved,That as foonas the exploring committee (hallhave
appropriated the lands for donation fettlements,in quantity fuffici
ent for all the proprietors,Winthrop Sargent,JosephGiil
man, and Return J. Meigs, Esquires, who are hereby appoint
ed a committee for that purpofe,fhall immediately makeout,upon
a large fcale,a complete map or plan of the whole purchase from the
bed information,which they may be then able to obtain,exprefliog
all the lands of the eight acre, three acre, city lots and common*,
one hundred and fucty acre, and donation lots, the referred lot*
of Congress, school lots, and lots appropriated for religrous pur
poses—also, the two townihipsgiven by Congrcfs for an univerfi
ty,and the towns or fituationsfor towns to be rcferved by the com
pany for a future allotment.—That, all the residuary lands lhatl
be, by them, the laid committee of three, divided and numberei
upon paper, into forty equal grand divisions of twenty-five (hires
each, as like in quality as may be: Tnat each grand diviiion be
divided into five sub-divisions of five (hares each, and eachfiib
divifion into fe&ions of single (hares :—That as soon as the map
or plan is completed, the agents will form or class their fubferib
ers (who (hall not previously class themselves) by fettions or single
(hares, into fub-divilions of five, and grand divisions of twentr
five, and immediately proceed to drawing by lot for said lands,;
by grand divisions, sub-divisions and fe&ions : That in
draughts of sub-divisions (into fe£tions) which may be madeupoi
proprietors,holding (our,three, or two and (hares,it (hallbe
the ufagc for the greatest proprietor, or holder of the greatest
number of (hares, to take his lands in contiguity, by lot, either if*
the southern or northern part of the sub-division, where they (hi)'
be numbered from north to south, and in the wefternor eastern
(by lot also) where they may be numbered from weft toeaft ;
where sub-divisions mav be made up of two proprietors of two
(hares each, and one of one (hare, the two greatest proprie
tors ihall receive their fc&ions, by lot, either in the southern or
western part of the sub-division. Resolved, That the before na
med committee, be dire&ed to prepare the names and numbers,
and make all the neccffary- arrangements for the intended draught.
That previous to the drawing for this ultimate grand divmono
lands, there (hall be returns of the proprietors, as they may f
cla (Ted by the agents (or otherwise) lodged in the Secretary's omc e »
and it is recommended in all cases toconfult the inclinations
interests of the proprietors in the order of clafling. , .
Resolved, That the agents will give public notice of the timfiW
place of drawing, and that there be two perfonsno ways intere -
ed in the draughts, who (hall be sworn to the faithfully drawing
out the names and numbers from the boxes, and who alone a
be employed in this business for the draught of grand divnon »
sub-divisions, and feftions.
Resolved, That the Secretary cause the foregoing refolutfon 5
be publilhcd in the nerwfpapers of New-York, and the e
Eogland States ; to the end that the proprietors at
the option of clafling themselves as they may think proper. •
they are hereby requested so to do, and to express them c
upon thisfubjefl, either to their refpeftive agents, or by w
tion in writing addrcfled to, and to be lodged with the Secre»
at his office in the city of Marietta,previous to the ,
March, 1790 —Upon which day it is expe&ed the
take placc W I N T H K O P S A R G £ NT,
Sea clary to thi Ohw Oitnf")-
Marietta, §d November, 1789.
MR. ADAMS's LETTERS winch havi app'*"* l f*
Zfto, are part of a fir its, 26 in number, wrote Aii xa is
Holland—the whole are published in a pamphlet of 64 p a S e « 0 jj Cr t
to be fold by Mgjfrs. Berry & Rogers, Hanover-Square,
Hod,ge, Queen-Street, Editor hereof
Publiflied by JOHN FENNO, No. 9,
Lan r. j neartheOfwego-Market, N£w-York.—-[3 ''