[No. LXXV.j
THE TABLET.
No. LXXV.
u iVa mortal is so miferabl:, from his oiu/i inborn
Jfirit, as a covetous man."
THE love of wealth, is a passion attended
with io mnch utility, that no reafooable
man will discourage the exercise of it. This
passion, however, when it prevails inordinately,
defeats its own purposes, andfnbje<fts its pofielibr
to the tnoft painful inquietudes. The predomi
nating feature of a man of real covetoulnefs is, a
reluctance to put his money out of his immediate
controul. By such a precaution, he accumulates
less rapidly than he craves, and endures a perpe
tual conflict, between a deftre to encrsafe and aJear
to lose.
It is likewise a characteristic of this paflion to
be conrtant and unabating. An avaricious man
has no relief from the anxieties of his craving
difpofirion. If he meets with lofles it fills him
with agony: If he prospers in what he undertakes,
it heightens his solicitude about the prefenration
and management of his property. Other paflions
may rage with more vehemence, but they act by
intervals, and sometimes scarce operate at all.
Another property peculiar to avarice is, that it
gains strength by age. When the fire of youth
is abated ; when the ambition of middle age has
loft its ardor, the old man still has a source of gra
tification, securing, or in adding to his wealth.
It is a happy circuinftance that the love of money
encreafes in the decay of life. This propensity
maybedeemed a fubltitute for the loft of other
amufeinents ; and riches will support the influence
ofa man when talents and activity have fallen a
facrifice to the inroads of time. Theluftreof
opulence will supply the place of utiderftanding,
llot only where it never existed, but where it has
yielded to declining nature.
But the molt extraordinary effe<t of avarice is,
the solicitude it begets with refpedt to the appro
priation of an ellate, when a man bids adieu to
earthly scenes. The pangs that a covetous man
feels, in anticipating the profligate manners, in
which his hoardings may probably be squander
ed, are greater than can be described. This an
ticipation is often attended with such pain, that
the covetous man bequeaths his interest to some
public institution, that it may be kept entire, and
not fall into hands who will spend it by dissipa
tion, or misapply it, by indiscretion. Ithasoften
been remarked, that very avaricious people dis
cover a capricious kind of liberality in the diftri-.
bution of their ellate by legacies, to thole who
have no natural claim upon it. This is sometimes
afcribcd to vanity, but it more usually results
from a fear of misapplication of the money,fhoiild
it devolve upon the apparent heirs. A temper
of misanthropy is too apt to be connected with that
of avarice, It may therefore happen that a per
son of a covetous disposition may have so much
hatred for those whom he knows, and to whom
he is related, that he cannot bear the idea of pro
moting their welfare, by enjoying his property,
when he is dead, any more than while he was
alive. From this cause, he devotes it to public
uses, or perhaps with an air of refined generosity,
leaves it to strangers, whom he cannot hate, be
cause he does not know them.
Philadelphia, Dcc. 24,1 78 >•
YESTERDAY morning the Committee of the
Convention, appointed for the purpose, re
ported the following Declaration of Rights to
he attached to the Form of Government already
fubinitted to the confederation of that honorable
body.
ARTICLE IX.
THAT the great and ellential principles of li
berty and free government may be recognized,
and unalterably established, we declare,
I. r T"'IIAT all men are born equally free and
A independent, and have certain inherent
and indefeaiible rights, among which are those
of enjoying and defending life and liberty, of ac
quiring, poflelling, and protecting property and
reputation, and of pursuing their own happiness.
11. That all power being originally verted in,
is derived from the people, and all free govern
ments originate from their will, are founded 011
their authority, and inliituted for their common
peace, fafety and happiness ; and for the ad
vancement thereof, they have, at all times, an
unalienable and indefeaiible right to alter, re
form or abolilh their government, in such man
ner as they may think proper.
111. That all men have d natural and indetea
fible right to worfliip Almighty God according to
the dictates of their own confdences, and that 110
WEDNESDAY December 30, 1789.
man ought, or of right can be compelled to at
tend any religious worship, or to erect or support
any place of worship, or to maintain any ministry
against his free will and consent ; and that no
human authority cancontroul or interfere with
the rights of conscience, in any cafe whatever,
norfhall any preference ever be given, by law, to
any religious eftabliffiments or modes of worship.
'V- That no person who acknowledges the be
ing of a God, and a future state of rewards and
punilhments, shall, on account of his religious
lentiments, be difqualified to hold any office or
place of trust or profit under this Commonwealth.
V. That elecftious shall be free and equal.
VI. That trial by jury shall be as heretofore,
and the right thereof shall remain inviolate.
VII. That the printing presses shall be free to
every person who undertakes to examine the pro
ceedings of the Legislature, or any branch of go
vernment, and no law shall ever be made reftrain
ingthe right thereof. The free communication
of thoughts and opinions is oue of theniort inva
luable rights of man, and every citizen may free
ly speak, write, and print, being responsible for
the abuse of that liberty.
VIII. That the people shall be secure in their
persons, houses, papers and pofleffions, against un
realizable searches and seizures, and no warrant
shall iffue,to fearchany place, orto feizeany per
lons or things, but on probable cause, supported
by oath or affirmation, and defcrihing them as
nearly as maybe.
IX. Thar in all criminal prosecutions, the ac
cufedhath a right to be heard by himfelf and his
! counsel ; to demand the cause and nature of the
accusation ; to meet the witnefles, face to face ;
: to have compulsory process for obtaining witnes
ses in his favor, and a speedy public trial by an
impartial jury of the vicinage ; nor can he be
compelled to give evidence against himfelf; nor
can any way be deprived of his life, liberty or
property, but by the judgment of his peers, or
the law of the land.
X. That no person shall he proceeded against
by information for any indi&able offence, except
in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in
the militia when in acftual service in time of war,
or public danger ; nor shall any person for the
fame offence, be twice put in jeopardy of life or
limb; norfhall any man's property be taken, or
applied to public use, without the consent of his
repvefentatives, and on just compensation being
made.
XI. That all courts shall be open, and every
freeman,for an injury done him in his lands,goods
person or reputation, shall have remedy by the
due course of the law, and right and justice admi
nistered to him without sale, denial or delay.
XII. That no power of suspending laws, or the
execution thereof, shall be exercised, unless by the
Legislature, or by the authority thereof.
XIII. That exceflive bail fliall not be required,
nor exceflive fines imposed, or cruel punilhments
inflicted.
XIV. That all prisoners shall be bailable by
fufficient sureties, unless for capital offences, when
the proof is evident, or presumption great, and
the privilege of the writ of Habeas Corpus shall
not be suspended, unless when in cases of rebel
lion or invafton the public fafety may require it.
XV. That the person of a debtor, where there
is not a strong presumption of fraud, shall not be
continued in prison after delivering up all his
estate for the benefit of his creditors, in such man
ner as shall be pvefcribed by law.
XVI. That no ixpejt facto law, or law impair
ing contrails shall be made.
XVII. That no person shall be attainted of
treason, or felony, by the legislature.
XVIII. That no attainder shall work corrup
tion of blood, or forfeiture of real estate, except
during the life of the offender.
XIX. That the right of the citizens to bear
arms in defence of themselves, and the state, and
to afiemble peaceably together, and apply, in
a decent manner, to thole inverted with the pow
ers of government, for redress of grievances or
other proper purposes, shall not be quettioned.
XX. That those who conscientiously fcrople to
bear arms shall not be compellable to do so, but
fnall pay an equivalent for personal service.
XXI. That no Handing army shall, in time of
peace, be kept up, without the consent of the le
gislature, and the military shall, in all cases, and,
at all times, be kept in ftridl subordination to the
civil power.
XXII. That no soldier shall, in time of peace,
be quartered in any lioufe without the consent of
the owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to
be prescribed by law.
XXIII. That the legislature fliall, at 110 time,
create any office, the appointment to which ihall
be for a longer tenn than during good behavior.
[Publijhetf o/i Wedii.-fday and baturduy. j
t XXIV. 1 hat emigration from the itate iiiali
not be prohibited.
XXV. To guard againfi: trailfgreflions. of the
high powers which we have delegated, WK DE
CLARE, that every thingin this article expreUtd,
is excepted out of the general powers of leoiiia
tion, and lhall forever remain inviolate. "
RA 1 It ICA i lON of the new CONSTI FU I'iON
by the State of NORTH CAROLINA.
With the AMENDMENTS proposed.
Extralh from the journal cf tin Convention of North
Carolina, which met at FayetteviJ/e, on the 16th
day of November, i 789., for the purpefe of del,for
atifig further upon the Conjf itution or form- of go*
vernment proposed for the government of the tin
ted States.
MONDAY, November t6.
/~VN motion of Mr. Stokes, bis Excellency Sa
muel Jolinfton, Esq. was choleu President
and Charles Johnfton, Elq. Vice-President ; John
Hunt and James Taylor, Ef'q'rs. were chofeu Se.
eretaries.
THURSDAY, November 19.
The order of the day being callcd for taking*
undei consideration the form of government pro
posed for the government of the United States,
the Convention reiolved itfelf into a committee of
the whole—Mr. Afli in the chair.
After iome time spent, the President refamed
thechalr, and the committee reported profiref.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, November 20.
Acommitteeof the whole met according to ad
journment. This day was spent in debate? The
committee reported they had gone through with
thebufinefs, and were ready to report. Ordered,
that the report lie on the table. Adjourned.
SATURDAY, November 21.
The house met. On motion, Ordered, that the
report of the committee be taken up—which was,
that in behalf of the freemen and citizens of"
North Carolina, this Convention do adopt the
Conililution proposed for the government of the
United States ; the mainqueftion was then pat,
Shall this Convention concur with the repoi t of
the committee ? ihe yeas and nays being taken
were as follow, viz.
Ayes, 193 —Noes, 76 —Majority n7.
STATE OF NORTH-CAROLINA.
In Convention, November 23, 1789.
MR. GALLAWAY, from the committee ap
pointed to prepare and draw up amendments to he
proposed to the Constitution or form of govern
ment, proposed for the future government of the
United States, reported the following, viz.
Resolved, unanimoully, that it be recommend
ed and enjoined on the Representatives of this
State in Congress aflembled, to make application,
to Congress and endeavor to obtain the following
amendments to the Constitution for the future
government of the United States, agreeable to
the second mode proposed by the fifth article of
thefaid Constitution, which, when ratified agree
able to the said article, shall become a part of the
Constitution ; and that the Executive of this State
be directed to transmit a copy of the said a
mendments to eacliof the United States.
AMENDMENTS.
1 ft. That Congress fhallnot alter, modify, or
interfere in the times, places, and manner of
holding elections for senators and representatives
or either of them, except when the legiflatui e
of any State shall negledt, refufe, or be difablcd
by invasion or rebellion to prescribe the fame, or
in cafe when the provision made by theltate is so
imperfect as that no consequent election is had.
2d. That Congress {hall not djreftly or indirect
ly, either by themselves or through the judiciary,
interfere with any one of the States, in the re
demption of paper money already emitted, and
now in circulation, or in liquidating and difcliarg
ing the public securities of any one of the Stares';
that each and every State fhallhave the exclusive
right of making such laws and regulations for the
above purposes as they flrall think proper.
3. That the members of the Senate and Iloufe
of Representatives lhallbe inelligible to and in
capable of holding any civil office under the au
thority of the United States, during the time for
which they shall refpecftively be elected.
4. That the journals of the proceedings of the
senate and house of representatives, shall be pub
lished at least once in every year, except fucli pans
thereof relating to treaties, alliances, or military
operations as in their judgment require ferrety.
5. That a regular statement of the receipts and
expenditures of all public monies flirill be publish
ed at least onec every year.6. That 110 navigation or law regulating
commerce, fhnll be palled without theconfent ot'
two thirds of the members prefentin both houses.
7. That 110 soldier ihall be enlilted for any
term than four years, except in the time
of war, and then for no longer term than the
continuance of the war.
8. That fonie tribunal, other than the senate,
be provided fortrying impeachments offenators.
[SIGN£P]
JAMES GALLAWAY, Chairman.
I CERTIFY that the foregoing contain the a
mendments proposed by the Convention of North-
Carolina to the conltitution of the United States
of America. [Signed.]
JOHN HUNT,
<| Secretary to the Convention.
MR. FEN NO,
THAT, iu a country, whose inhabitants have been
educated with a determined hatred against
France, the present revolution Ihould be mis-re
presented, fometimesin themoft scurrilous lan
guage, is perhaps an unavoidable weakness of
human nature; but that thcfame language Ihould
be repeated 111 American papers, is so inconsist
ent with American candor, and with the history
of paj} events, that if we had not the experience
of several mouths, we ihould honor human na
ture too much to believe it. It is equally sur
prising, that in the midst of all this abuse, not
one paragraph—not one line has been publish
ed, south of Bojlon, to inspire some doubts on
the veracity of those publications. To prove
in particular the great candor of some printers,
who are attentive to give us the newe/t news of
Parisian tranfadtions, we beg you to re pnblifh
the enclosed accounts of the London Evening
Pofl, which, un-like the World, and some other
papers, is not under the immediate influence of
Calonne, and his creatures. We do not re
quest the printers to translate French papers,
We only requeftthem to give impartially a copy
of all the English papers in their pofleflion.
Designedly to insult the feelings of a whole
nation, may perhaps be attended with more
disagreeable consequences than some are aware
of- S. F. P.
PARISIAN INTELLIGENCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
Monday, Nov. 2.
HP HE grand question of the right, to dispose
X of thepofleffions of the church, was relum
ed ; and decided in the following terms, drawn
up by M. de Mirabi. au.
" The National Aflembly declares :
" That all the goods of the church are at the
disposal of the nation, charged only with provid
ing, in a suitable manner, for the expence ofdi
-vine wor/hip, the maintenance of its ministers
and the relief of the poor, under the infpecftion
and according to the inftrutftions of the provin
ces.
" That in the dispositions to be made for the
maintenance of the ministers of religion, every
vicar shall be secured in a stipend, not less then
1200 livres a year, besides a house and garden."
The decree, thus drawn up, was carried by
578 voices, against 346.
Forty members objected to the terms in which
the question was put, and refufed to vote ; so
that the number present was 964.
Tuesday, Nov. 3.
The adjourned question of Thursday last was
put to the vote, in the following terms :
" Has it been decided, that the sons of a fami
ly are comprehended under the difqualification
which excludes from the National Aflembly all
persons who do not pay a tax to the value of a
mark offilver, and poflefs no property whatever "
The Aflembly resolved that it had been so de
cided.
In the debates on this article several members
contended that the fuffrage of the electors should
be the only qualification requisite for a member
ci the National Aflembly, without any regard to
property or taxation. This was over-ruled • and
the payment of a tax to the value of a mark offil
<-ei, arising from any species of property, fettled
as the neceflary qualification, it was then propo
sed that the payment of a tax to this amount, by
t;ie father of a family, should qualify all his sons
of proper age ; because, it was said, by the con-
Irrut'uon of the Roman law, which Was the of
jurisprudence in many par«of France, sons were
lncapableof acquiriligproperty in their own name
during the life of their father. This was reject
ed as above. J
The article, however, is still of, as
requiring a qualification that will exclude nine
tenths of the kingdom, and almost all the lower
Clergy, from the National Aflembly.
The plan for dividing and sub-dividing the
kingdom into departments, commonalties, and
diftridis, was taken into consideration ; and M.
Thouret, the author ofit, read afpeech, in which
he endeavored to obviate the objections that had
been made to it, and maintained that it was the
only means of eradicating that esprit de corps
which usually animates the provinces to the de
triment of the common interest. This speech
was received with much applaul'e, and ordered
to be printed.
M. deMirabeau objected to this plan, and pro
posed one of his own. The principal difference
between M. Thouret's, and his is, that the former
endeavors to combine three fundamental princi
ples, territory, population, and property ; the
latter, population and property only. M. de Mi
rabeau's plan was also ordered to be printed.
M. de Lameth, after paying due praise to the
parliaments, especially for the firm opposition
they had often made to the attempts of despotism,
observed, that these bodies having, for several
ages, enjoyed a fort of legislative power in con
cert with the crown, there was reason to fear that
they would oppose, with all their influence, the
success of a revolution which went to deprive
them of that power. He therefore proposed, not
to abolish them immediately, but to leave them
in a Hate of vacation, and to entrust their func
tions to the Chambers of Vacation.
M. Target seconded the motion, and it was de
creed.
" That, till the National AfTembly can apply
to the new organization of the judicial power,
all the parliaments in the kingdom (hall continue
in, or resume a state of vacation ; that the cham
bers of vacation shall continue or resume their
functions, and take cognizance of all causes and
procefles, any regulation to the contrary not with
standing, till further orders ; and that all the other
tribunals shall continue to administer justice in
the usual manner.
" That the President shall wait upon the King,
and request hiin to expedite all neceflary orders
and letters."
M. Bailly was introduced at the head of a de
putation from the magistracy of Paris, and pre
sented a provisional plan of police, for the ap
probation of the National Aflembly. The plan
wes referred to the Committee of Constitution.
NOT E.
* Chambers of Vacation are those which take cognizance of
all matters that require dispatch, while the courts to which they
belong do not fit ; or, as we (hould fay, bt tween term and term
Each Parliament has its Chamber of Vacation.
Wednesday, Nov. 4.
The President informed the Aflembly that the
King had given the Royal fanrtionto all the de
crees pref'ented to him.
The difcuflion of the proposed new division of
the kingdom was relumed.
Several members were for adopting the plan
presented by the Committee of Constitution (M.
Thouret's,) without any amendment or modifica
tion. Others were against any new division, as
dangerous and impracticable.
M. Defmeuniers maintained the former opinion
.rid infupport ofit, instanced the defects in the
. presentation in England, which he said were
radical, and wuft sooner or later destroy the li
berty of the country. This danger conid only be
avoided, by combining territory, population, and
property, as the fundamental principles of repre
sentation, instead of confining it to territory alone
which might often be fully represented in the
legislature, when the population and the proper
ty, which originally gave it consequence, were
transferred to another place, not represented at
M. Barnave proposed amendments to the plan
ot the Committee to the following effect:
" The kingdom shall be divided into twenty
four pans, or nearly Co, with a provincial admi
nl ft ration m each. These again into three or
tour dittri&s, or more, with an assembly of ad
mimltration in each, subordinate to the provin
cial administration.
The extent of territory and population re
qmfite to form a municipality, lhall be determin
ed, and atrer fetling the other principles of or
ganization the establishment of municipalities
shall be referred to provincial aflfemblies.
1 " P. 0 ? 1 " 105 to the National Aflembly shall
be e erted ,n the principal towns of the diftrkts,
by electo. sell,fen immediately by the people, in
each municipality, in such manner, that no Aflbm
bly of Electors shall consist of less than three hun
dred or nominate more than four Deputies to
the National Aflembly.'*
In all these plans it seems to be an admitted
principal, that the deputies of the National As
sembly are not to be chosen immediately by the
people, but by the electors chosen by the people
f his principle we apprehend to be erroneous •
irk f t . heme, " bers the National Aflembly
ate cholen immediately by the people, without
the intervention of an intermediate body there is
reason to fear that the Aflembly will not always
(peak the sense of ilie people, or, at least n
in some cases, it will not do so as fooii a«it L,!?'
The Preside.it read a letter fr om .h"Ke®
of the Seals, announcing that his Majectv hTI
granted his pure and simple acceptation of f
decree vvh.cli declares the , ight of the nation J
dispose ot" tlie goods of the church ; that lie' I
sanCtioned the decrees of yesterday refpeftlr
the Parliaments,'and that ext.aordmary c 0ur ;»"!
were dispatched to allure the prompt exec'rifT
of it. -
Thursday, November 5.
Anew medal, in copper, silver, and <r o ld hi*
been Itruck for M. Bailly, the firft Mayor ot P a
11s. I hat of M. de la Fayette, will s oon
coined. M. Neckar has, through modeltv pre
vented the sale of his. The three different pieces
are twenty pence, eight (hillings, and dght trui
neas. fa
Orders from the Hotel de Ville are ifl'ued f or
apprehending all persons attainted of hioh trea
foil, and particularly Prince Lambelc, for bavin*
entered the Tuilleries on the 12th of July lalt
at the head of an armed troop,and killed a harm
less citizen, who was peaceably walkingin those
gardens. Many deputies of the National Affem.
bly have fignified their retreat: Among others
Messrs. Laillre, Bernard, and Lally Tolendal.
_ The Mayor of Paris, and several other Muni
cipal Officers have applied to the National Assem
bly for a better regulation of the police in the
capital.
The States of Danphiny did not meet on the
2d inft. at had been fettled. The following cir
cular letter waslent to every deputy ofrhecoun
ty by the Attorney General and Syndies. «Sir,
We are charged by the intermediate conimiffion
to acquaint you, thatafter very important con
siderations, the convention of the States has
beeii postponed to the 14th of December next.
We have the honor to be, &c."
Saturday, Nov. 7,
The debate on M. de Mirabeau's motion, for empowering his
Majesty's ministers to fit and advise in the National Affcrably,
was refumed.—lt was warmly opposed by M. Lanjuinais, who
said that, not the \ote, but the eloquence and influence of mi
nisters were to be dreaded in the aflembly. He moved that the
representatives of the nation shall not be capable of accepting any
place in the ministry, during the legislature of which they are
members, nor for three years after ; nor of receiving any emolu
ment, favor, or employment from the executive power.
This motion was generally understood to be pointed at M. de
Mirabeau, who is luppofed to have been negociating wiiliM.
Necker for a place in the adminil\ration. He opposed it on ge
neral principles, and desired that it might not go beyond its mark;
but that theexclufion be limited to hira only, against whom alone
it was evidently meant.
M. de Mirabeau's motion was reje&ed ; and it was carried by
a great majority, u That no member of the National Assembly
shall hold any place in the administration, during the present
session."
The eligibility of ministers to befmembers of the legislature in
future, was adjourned, and referred to the committee ofconfti
tution.
A letter was read from the keeper of the seals, dating that his
Majesty had accepted the nine articles of the constitution prefent
ted to him yesterday, and fanftioned three other decrees prefenteJ
at the fame time.
The Bishop of Autun observed, that the aflembly haying de
clared the right of the nation to difpofejof the goods of the church,
there was reason to fear that the idea might get abroad, that they
were open to the disposal of individuals. He therefore moved,
to preserve them from dilapidation.
That thejudges, in ordinary, throughout the kingdom, should
affix their frals of office to all archives and depots of titles of
church property intheabbies, monasteries, &c. &c. (
That ecclesiastical property, its produce, and cfpecially the
woods should be put under the immediate protection of theKiog,
the provincial aflemblies, and other bodies of administration.
That all persons guiity of embezzling or secreting property,
ortitle deeds, should be proceeded against, and punished, asgu'»"
iy of tltefr.
That thejudges in ordinary, should be direfied to enquire into,
and profccute all offences, and to give an account to the Nationa
AfTembly of the informations they received, and their proceed
ings upon them, without prejudice to the jurifdiftion of the on
cers des maitrifes (officers whose jurifdi&ion extends over woods
and waters.)
That the officers des maitrifes should be particularly vigilant to
prevent the cutting of wood contrary to the laws, on pain of an
swering to the nation for their neglect.
1 he consideration of the firft article was postponed ; theoticr
four were decreed.
M. Threillard moved to suspend the nomination to all benefi
ces, except Archbifhopricks, Bifhopricks, Rectories, Dignities*
and Canonries of the cathedral Churches; and that all reflations
and exchanges of benefices, except of those above-mentioned, an<j
also all letters and refenpts from Rome refpe&ing them, lhou
be null and void.
1 he consideration of this motion was adjourned till Monday
M. Martmeau presented the plan of a decree to oblige rcclcli
aftics pofTeffing a benefice or benefices, to the annual amount 0
a thoufarid crowns, to resign all others they might hold above
that value.
To oblige all beneficiaries to residence, on pain of deprivation-
I o suppress all monasteries and religious societies, except l 0
employed in educating youth. 1
I o declare, that in the monasteries and religious societies to
prefcrved, no person, in future, shall take vows that deprive 1
of his civil existence, or the liberty ofquitting the focicty, * n
he shall think fit to renounce the advantages ot it. . l c
1 o suppress all Abbey and Collegiate benefices, and ap? >
revenues of them to the use of the public.
The consideration of this plan was also adjourned.
Exhatt of a letter from Paris, November 9.
After the strong opposition made to M. Chenier's, Cha» es '
that tragedy is at length represented with an .applause not n .
here since the days of Voltaire. The charatfers are taken n
history, and, two or three of them excepted (the Great | '
the honcft Chancellor de I'Hofpital, and the brave and virtu _
Admiral Coligny) form a group that fix an indelible U t L 0 _
human nature. The fubjeft is the horrid maflacre of St. B ar «
lomew, the severest satire upon falfe religion, blind kis°* r \\j na l
inordinate ambition, that was exhibited to the world. j' aj 0 n
Lorraine is introduced, in his purple robe, giving his bene »
to his Catholic army, and diipenling absolutions to tho e
were on the point of setting out to embme their hands lpblood of .their innocent, unoffending fellow-citizens. The au
thor has drawn with a masterly hand the irresolute, timid, and
cruel Charles; the gloomy and perfidious policy of Catharine of
Mcdicis; the arrogance and aspiring views of the haughty Duke
of Guise ; and the clerical zeal, vindiftivenefs, and pride of the
Cardinal. Nor has he been less happy in his portraits of the
gallant young King of Navarre, and the truly great and venerable
Admiral and Chancellor. The representation of this play, will,
not improbably, lead to the oveiturniug of the cftablilhcd reli
gion of France.
" A deputation from the higher orders of the clergy waited
upon his Majesty, at the Thuilleries, to entreat that he would inter,
pose his authority to prevent a repetition of the play. The Kino-'
received them with his accustomed politeness, but told them, he
nil) decline interfering ; adding, that if he did not feel him
fclf hurt at the chara&er of the Monarch, he did not conceive that
they ought to object to that of the Cardinal.
" The National Assembly leave the Archiepifcopal-hall th's
morning, and meet at theßiding-fchool near the Thuilleries, which
has been properly prepared foi their reception."
M. Neckar, and his colleagues in office, conti ■
nueto excrcife their functions ; and the Nation
al Alleinbly proceeds on tne important objects
before it, as far as we are able to judge from the
accounts we receive, with vigour and with free
dom. The decree for declaring the pofieffions of
the church the property of the nation, is drawn
up with much apparent caution, and in terms
likely to ineetthe approbation of the Provinces,
ai)d even of the inferior clergy, who are by far
the moll numerous part of the body, and wliofe
influence is the greatefl oil the minds of the
people.
Among other facrifices to the rage of the mob
in Burgundy, was the house of a Mr. Fauflart,
surgeon, and with it hismufeum, containing a
great collection of (kulls, in a regular gradation
from the human to the animal. This gentleman,
inavery ingenious treatise published at Paris a
bout two years since, aflertsthat our firll parents,
Adam,and Eve, were black!
GHENT, November 7, 1759.
Friday morning a little before 8 o'clock, about
2000 Patriots who cainc from the diftriift of Waes,
appeared before the Saxon and Bruges gates of
this city, and after a short contest made them
selves mailers of the city, driving the soldiers
who guarded the gates, and beingjoined by ma
ny of the Patriots in Ghent, soon overpowered
the main guard, who were either killed or dis
persed. During this the troops in the Caserns
of St. Peter, having divided into two columns,
those on the right marched to Water.PortUridge,
having the river in front; the other took poll at
the Kettle Gate, having the aforefaid river also
in front; Co that these columns could not be at
tacked except in front, at a great disadvantage,
for ihey had the command of the ground every
way : Notwiihltanding their feveraladvantages,
the Patriots attacked them, and after an obstinate
engagement with cannon and muftpietry for 10
hours, the military were driven to their Caserns,
leaving many dead and wounded, the exact num
ber not kuown. The fame night a corps of 200
men, with 3 cannon, marched out of the Caserns
into the suburbs among the Burghers ; the fame
on Saturday ; and on Sunday the Patriots at
tacked the troops and drove them off, but the
military returned at night, and began to wreak
their vengeance in the molt cruel manner.by fire,
robbery, and murder. On Monday at day break
they returned to the fame quarter, but were beat
off by thp Patriots; they returned again at night
withfuch fury and vengeance, that they did not
even spare fucking babes at the brealts of their
mothers.
During these commotions, there was a continu
al firing from the castle with red-hot and other
cannon balls, which dellroyed all the houses and
buildings in the vicinity ; and the garrison con
tinued to sally out every night to plunder and
drag all they could lay hands on prisoners into
the callle.
As the garrison in the Caserns continued to kill,
to murder, and to destroy by fire ; the Patriots
under thecommand oftheHeer Van Ilcllum, ani
mated with a determination to put an end to
these excefles, about 10 o'clock in the afternoon,
attacked the garril'on in the Caserns with such
undmmted spirit, that about 4 o'clock in the af
ternoon they surrendered prisoners of war, con
fiftingof more than 600 men,with theircomman
dant, a major ; and tliey were marched bare
headed through the city, and imprisoned in dif
ferent cloyfbers. 011 Monday night the garrison
of the caltle, finding themselves in a diitrelled
situation, abandoned the fame, and fled by Dum
port to Dendermond ; so that at present we are
relieved from a band of desperate barbarians,
who may truly be (tiled regimented a[fajfins.
CHARLESTON, (S. C.) December if.
Yefterd/y the Federal Diftridl Court for this
State was formally opened at his Honor Judge
Drayton's chambers in Tradd-ftreet, when the
oath requited by the judicial a eft, was admini
itered to his Honor the Judge by the Honorable
/Edanus Burke, Elij.
Thomas Hall, Elq. was appointed clerk of the
court.
The oaths of oflice were severally taken by
John Julius Pringle, Esq. Attorney, and the o
ther oflicers of court. No business having been
inlUtuted, and the Judge being indisposed, the
court \\as adjourned until Saturday next.
THE GUEST. No. IX.
" His bounty like a flowing tide,"
Extends its blessings far and ivide.
GENEROUS, munificent spirit, is the molt
perfecft representative of Deity, that can be exhi
bited by mortality : As human life consists in a
feriesof inquietudes, to raise the deprefled, and
to lighten the burthens which bow down the chil
dren of misfortune, are the delightful employ
ments of the feeling, and benevolent heart.
Alonzo is a gentleman, who by a fucceflion of
prosperous incidents, has acquired more than a
competency of the goods of fortune—pofl'effing a
native goodness of disposition, his generous pro
pensities have expanded, as his wealth has increa
sed—and his chief happiness, in the acquisition
of property, appears to result from its enlarging
his fpliere of action, and munificence. Not con
fined to transient objedts ofinifery, his benevolence
seeks the abodes of the wretched, and often the
deserted children of want receive unexpected re
lief, when their hearts are finking with despon
dency :—The ividaiv, and the fatherlefs —the in
dultrious poor—are ilie objects of his wide extend
ed bounty—When under painful anticipations of
fuffering from hunger, cold, and nakedness, fud*
denly their fears are diflipated by supplies of
fuel, food and cloathing—while the hand of the
generous donor forever remains invilible and un
known.
But tho Alonzo despises the parade of Charity,
yet he realizes the power of example in-promo
ting acts of general public utility : Hence you fee
his name in every subscription, for the advance
ment of those institutions, which are designed to
benefit the poor, and to leflen the avenues toidle
nefs and want. Soineobjeifts ofcommon, andex
tenfive importance, require the joint exertions of
numbers, Alonzo is always conl'picuous in his
exertions upon such occaftons—and witliinduftry
and perseverance every obstacle is surmounted,
till plans are brought to maturity, which conduce
to the honor, the wealth, and happiness of the
community. Such men are the stewards of the
blessings ofprovidence—their property is the pro
perty of the public, and their wealth is the Bank
of the poor. Their characters give aluftreto
the place where they reside, and their good name
is a prop to their country in every emergency.
Do we not know such charadlers ? Let their works
point tliein out—Their praise is in the city.
The good man cannot but be generous, tho the
public acknowledgments of gratitude are a severe
tax upon his feelings.
Contrasted with such men, the Miser is like a
barren, insatiable foil, which the more moillure
it. imbibes, the harder, and more unproductive it
grows. Enormous wealth, accumulated in the
coffers of the avaricious, and there confined, is
like exhausting the blood from the constitution.
It is drying up the sources from whence those
channels are supplied, which nourilh, fructify
and fertilize the world : Their characters are
conflantly suspended upon the pointed pinnacle
of satire while they live, and their memory is the
sport of execrations, when Death unlocks the
iron repositories of their hoards, and gives their
wealth to their prodigal posterity.
NEW-YORK, DECEMBER 30.
We are now brought to the conclusion of the
year Eighty-Nine.—What an eventful period
has it been ! The molt sanguine expectations did
not anticipate what we now realize. At this time
last year, we were looking forward with anxious
expectation to the organization of the new Go
vernment : And while the minds of the gloomy
and discontented, foreboded and predicted a se
ries of difficulties, dangers and unavoidable e
vils, the friends of peace, the honest and unfuf
pecling friends of freedom and good government
trembled in hope. But through the favor of hea
ven, what is now our situation ! A form of go
vernment for a various people, and an extend
ed territory, brought into operation with the
happiest facility ; and organized to the perfect
fatisfacftion of the citizens. Peace, plenty and
freedom reign in our borders, and innumerable
catifes are powerfully operating to produce pre
fetit and future happjnefs to our country. —The
dreams of anarchy are no more—the rays of
knowledge diverge in every possible direction.
Arts, manufactures and commerce raise their long
deprefled heads ; and protected by our equal laws,
and an efficient government, are extending their
influence far and wide.—Our resources are un
folding; our burthens are diminishing; right
principles are taking root, and government is
considered in ajuftpoint of view—and as the
choicell gift of heaven. The revolution in our
political Situation is great; but the revolution in
our principles is greater. —These are the events
of ayear! A yearthat Stamps our character with
fame immortal ; the wisdom and magnanimity of
which arefufficient to wipe off the reproaches of
ages. Our enjoyments may jultly be heightened
with the reflection, that our example has proved
contagious to the nations of Europe ; who, under
the favor of Providence, are now in the high
road to a glorious llate of freedom and jult go
vernment.
The labors of theObferver, a writer, whofeper
formances firft appear in a Hartford paper, are
entitled to the thanks of his countrymen, for un
folding many fyflems of State policy, which now
appear to be a grievous burthen on the people.
The speculations of this writer ought to be read
by every citizen ; for it is demonstrated by him,
that a Amplification of our numberless State re
gulations, will save millions to the people.
A bill of rights for freemen appears to be a con
tradiction in terms. From whom are they receiv
ed ? From thcmfelves ? Do freemen relinquish
those rights that are not fpecified in a bill ? To
whom do they relinquish them ? To themselves, or
their rulers? Who are their rulers but the crea
tures of their own forming? If freemen retain
no rights but tliof'e fpeciiied in a bill, they divest
themselves of thottfands, where they retain one.
What avails a bill of rights to those who violate
the laws ? and in a free country, every right of
human nature, which are as numerous as sands
upon the sea Shore, belong to the quiet, peacea
ble citizen.
Bills of rights owe their origin to circumstances
no ways honorary to the natural independence,
and dignity of human nature. Success on the
part of the barons, in their wars with King John,
extorted that boasted instrument called the bill
of rights. But it may be enquired, whether the
powers not furretidered bv the King, were not
fnppofed to be vested in him.—ln that cafe, what
was granted, mult be viewed in the light of a
concession on his part. Its being extorted or vo
luntary, makes no difference in the degrading
idea that connects itfelf with the tranfaCtion.
The truth is, while the people are considered as
the favored party in a bill of rights ; the feeds of
controverted sovereignty are sown in the very
heart of the Constitution.
Yesterday arrived here the October Packet
from Hallifax.
Members of Congress now in this city : Senate,
? resident of the Senate.—Mr. Dalton.—Mr. John
'on.—Mr. Schuyler.—Mr. King.—Mr. Izard.—
Mr. Butler.
Represe NTATivES,Mr.Gilman. —Mr.Gerry.—
Mr. Lawrance.— Mr. Benfon.—Mr. Scott.—Mr.
Coles.—Mr. Brown.— Mr. Griffin.—Mr. Huger.
—Mr. Smith, of South-Carolina.—Mr. White.—
Mr. Partridge—Mr. Tucker.
Mr. Otis, Secretaiy of the Senate.
Mr. Beckley, Clerk of theHoufe.
IC7 3 MRS. GARDNER, being under the disa
greeable necejity oj pojlponing the COMEDY of Wit's last Shift, or
Genius in the Suds, with the other entertainments intended for her
benefit yesterday, on account oj the inclemency of the weather, begs
leave to a [Jure the public that the New Picce, £s!c. will positively be
performed this Evening, and that it will not be put off on any account,
ami mojl humbly solicits the patronage of the public on the occasion.
PROPOSAL,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
MEMOIRS
OF THE
BLOOMSGROVE FAMILY.
In a SERIES of LETTERS from a gentleman in New-England
to a refpe£table citizen of Philadelphia.
CONTAINING
Sentiments on a MODE of DOMESTIC EDUCATION, suited
to the present state of Society, Government and Manners in the
United States, and on the Importance and Dignity of the Female
Character.
INTERSPERSED WITH A
VARIETY of interesting ANECDOTES.
CONDITIONS.
I"hey will be printed on a good paper and type—neatly bound,
aud lettered, in two volumes, i2mo. and delivered to fubferibers
at three quarters of a dollar per volume.
(£3T These Momoirs are dedicated to Mrs. Washington, by
her ptrmijjion. Having seen the manuscripts, and approved the plan>
She heartilv wishes that every laudable effort to improve the
mode of education in this country may be attended with merit
-44 ed success."
(£3 FROM the literary character of the reputed author of
the above work, and a table of contents left with the printer here
of, being eighty-three letters on the most inteVefting fubjeas of
education, life and manners, it is expected these Memoirs will
prove a very valuable and interesting performance.
Subscriptions received by the Editor, at his office, and letters (poll
paid.) duly attended to.
j Publifkcd by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden-
Lani. nearthcOficfgo-Mtrkti, New-York.—[3del. pr. ««.]THE OBSERVER. |
No. X.
To the American Planter! and Farmers
THL gentlemen who pollefs and cultivate the
foil, are in this country so numerous, and
hold so great proportion of property, that they
have right t6 a decided influence in the meal'ures
of government. In addressing you I speak to the
people, vvhofe will must ultimately determine the
system of national police. An enlightened plant
er is a friend to manufactures, by which his raw
materials are prepared for the use of man—he is
a friend to commerce, which converts the surplus
of his perishable produce into permanent wealth,
and mingles the growth ot every clime 011 the
board of hospitality: Still the agricultural now
is, and for a century to come must remain the pre
vailing interest both in riches and in inuence.
The war of independence was yours ) and there
fore became a war of blows too hard for the
common enemy—our present form of govern
ment was firft delineated by those who roll the
tongue and drive the quill ; it became a sacred
reality by the seal of your fuffrages : and the
measures of the treasury department must be
addrefled to your good understanding and sense
of national honor to render them fuccefsful.
Though rhe nature of jour employment is such
as precludes the opportunity of collecting infor
mation ; your judgment must fancftify, and your
firmnefs effectuate the public decrees. The e
vils relulting from a lofsof public creditmayaf
fecft others firft—on you they fall heaviest. Mer
chants, monied men and those who have great
property afloat, are on the watch—they havelei
fure to collect every information—acorrefpond
ence by every post and through half the world
advertises them of the evil, and their property
by some change in its situation is secured ; while
you without information and unsuspicious are en
snared. Every poflible imposition in public cre
dit will operate thus—either the price of your
produce will fall, or the articles you purchase
rife, or the deceitful medium center in your
hands. When the state of credit, In any couu
try, is such as excites a war of artifice between
its citizens, they must be eventual fufferers,
wliofe employment confines them in the field, at
a distance from the course of information. The
firft thing you ought to demand is a stable system
for the public debt, which may be done by plac
ing the whole of every description under one re -
fponfible board ; the next is a circulating medi
um of fixed value. To accomplish this lam sen
sible there must be some kind of direct taxation
by the United States, for it is not probable that
an impost and excise will equitably fund the
whole debt. Direct taxation is now practised
■with a heavy hand by the separate States, and why
ihould the exercise of this power by the general
government be more dangerous, when attended
■with such circumstances that afpart of the sum you
now pay will be fufficient ? If a change of system
will remove half the weight you have borne these
fifteen years, be not duped to lose the opportu
nity, by the artful fuggeltions of some men, who
expect to gain more by the old game, than by a
new one. The members of the general govern
ment are your representatives—your friends, and
the beings of your own creation—their existence
and popularity are in your hands, and they have
every motive to guard your interest ; more can
not be said of the State legislatures. Still fur
ther to remove all suspicions that the writer is
acting an infiduous part, I will compare your
prelent situation with what it might be made, by
an interposition of the general government.
Every State in the empire is heavily in debt—
in each State there are different modes of impo
ling and collecting taxes, hut in all, direct taxa
tion of some kind is in ul'e—in a few States arbi
trary afleflinent is customary, which may be set
down for the worst kind of iinpofition--in others e.
very kind of property fpecifically is charged at cer
tain rates affixed in the tax laws—in New-England
your houses and lands, your cattle of every de
scription, even your sons are taxed before their
labor can pay for their support, and your mecha
nics are arbitrarily aflefled for the labor of their
hands. The tax laws have been varied annually,
so that to understand the system of public de
mands is next to impoflible—thefe changes in the
tax laws, have opentd a succession of speculation
definitive and unintelligible to the unwary citi
zen—The general taxation of all your proper
ty imperceptibly advances the amountto a griev
ance.—ln Connecticut there are one hundred tax
gatherers, and in the other States a number pro
portioned to their extent.—The gentlemen qua
lified to do this duty, must be men of sagacity
and as such will not forget themselves, nor can
•we wilh theyfhould serve the public for nothing.
—An average emolument to themselves of less
than 200 dollars per annum, would not tempt
them to execute the duty—this emolument arises
from a public reward, mileage, forbearance mo
ney, with an opportunity of speculating among
the ignorant; anil tho it be not charged in the
tax bills is eventually paid by the people—l blame
not Uie collectors, their business requires industry
and watching, and is attended with risque, for
they must lose the taxes of those who abscond,
alter their warrants are received ; but I accufea
fyftemfo expenfiveto the people. One hundred
tax gatherers at two hundred dollars each amount
to twenty thousand dollars—this furn though not
charged in any account whatevei-, is annually
paid by the people of Connecticut—an enormous
burthen ! for the simple collection of taxes, and
all this, on a plan which you have often been told
is mighty cheap, and full of economy and liber
ty. Let us talk no more of the high salaries giv
en by the United States, when our own plan
bears so much harder on the people. The em
ploying too many men in any public business,
that it may be done at a cheap rate, always proves
a fpunge in the event. With the great sums you
have paid, and collected in this expensive man
ner ; with the general taxation of your whole
property, you have not obtained the reputation
of being just to your creditors. The evil still
remains, andmuft temain without a general re
form of system. Most of my remarks will ap
ply to all the States, and as this publication firft
appears in Connecticut, I have taken it as an m
(tance to exemplify the whole.—Let not these
truths excite faction—be calm—reverence go
vernment, and public justice, and you will be
remedied. Compare with this picture a system I
will propose—Let your State debt be afl'umedby
the United States.—ln addition to the import and
excise, give them a dire<t tax.—Let this tax be
imposed on the (ingle article of improved land.
Three cents per acre, which is twopence curren
cy of New-England very nearly, will be fuffiei
ent to ertablifh the faith and justice of your coun
try, and content the public creditors, if theyare
reasonable men.—Let this be paid in the money
of th« merchant, for if there be a depreciated
currency in circulation, you will eventually rue
the consequences.—Eight tax-gatherers will be
fufficient to collect an excise and land tax in Con
necticut, which now employs one hundred.
Make these men responsible ; give them the sala
ry of eight hundred dollars per ann. and fuffer
no kind of fee robe taken from the people, This
will make a saving of nearly fourteen thousand
dollars, in the article of collection, which is prin
cipally paid by the poorest citizens ; and for which
they have no credit in the public opinion. The
planter, pofTefling one hundred acres in fair cul
tivation, will have to pay annually sixteen (hillings
New-England currency, for the whole amount
of his taxes, and without any additional fee to
collectors ; and those who have less estate in pro
portion. Every wife planter would compound
with the public for thisfum—l believe it would
be fufficient ; and I appeal to the honest cultiva
tors of the earth, whether it be more than one
third of the sum they have beenufed to pay.
My next number (hall contain further remarks
on a land tax.
PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
ABSTRACT of JOURNAL of the first SESSION
of the SENATE of the UNITED STATES.
FRIDAY August 7.
T N the absence of the Vice President, proceeded to elect a Prefi-
X dent pro tempore, and the votes being colleaed and counted,
the Hon. John Langdon was unanimously appointed.
A message from the President of the United States, by General
Knox.—See Gazette of Augujf 12.
This message was ordered to lie for confider»tion.
Mr. Morris, 10 behalt of the committee on the bill, entitled
" An ast for allowing a compensation to the President and Vice
President of the United States," reported an amendment, to wit •
To expunge the provision made for the Vice President, " Five thou
sand dollars," and insert " Six thousand dollars."
On motion to reduce the provision for the President of the Unit
ed States from twenty-five thousand to twenty thousand dollars
Palied in the Negative. *
On motion to make the provision for the Vice President eight
thousand dollars instead of fii e thousand dollars—Patted in the
negative.
And on motion, the futher consideration" of this clause of the
bill was postponed.
health Grayf ° n rei l uefted leave of absence, for the recovery of his
The concurrence of the Senate, upon the resolve of the House
on the mode of enrolment, and the presentation of bills, &c. va»
carried to «he House of Representatives. Adjourned.
MONDAY, August jo.
Mr Strong, on behalf of the joint committee appointed the
sth of August, " To consider what business is necrlTdry to be acted
upon prior to an adjournment, and to report a proper time at
which an adjournment shall take place," reported ; and the report
was ordered to lie for consideration.
A message from the House of Representatives, with a bill, en
titled, " An ast for allowing compensation to the members of the
Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, and to
the officers of both Houses," requesting the concurrence of the Se
nate therein.
The Senate proceeded to the second reading of a bill, entitled,
. T clearing of Aelfc-1., regulating the
coifting trade, and for other purpose."
Ordered, That it be committed to Mr. Morris, Mr. Dalton
Mr. Laogdon, Mr. Butler and Mr. King. Adjourned. '
1 U £ S D A Y, August u.
A message from the House of Representative*, with a resolve
of the House, of the 10th of August, providing,
« u di ; taed by Congress, in their aQ of June the
6th i; 88, be made and returned into the Treasury without de
lay." Adjourned.
FRIDAY, August 14.
The petition of Nathaniel Gorham, praying that a resolution of
the House of,Reprefentatives of the United States, providing
• 1 hat the above survey be made," might not pass the Senate in its'
p/efent form, for leafons set forth in the petition -
1 he resolve of the House of Representatives of the United States
of the 1 ith of August, referred to in the (aid petition,—and
The petition of Andrew Ellicot, on the fame lubWft. wer e fe
i::! l ;S,r oi,,lJm,ion ~f i;,c buf,ncfs **
Proeeeded to a second reading of the lull, entitled » A
providing for the expenfei which may attend nesou.it „L '8
ties with the Indi n tribes, and the appointment of Commiff' 1 "
crs foe managing the fame._ m °n.
Ordered, That the bill t>e committed ro Mr Few m.
woith, Mi. King, Mr. Lee and Mr. Butler. Adjourned
M O N D A Y, Angnft tj.^
The committee appointed to take into conlidcration thebilL
titled, " An a& providing for the expenfcs which may attend
g-.ciationsor treaties with the Indiintribcs.andtbcippoua
of commiiiionerj for managing the fame," reported that it be
" Resolved, That it be allowed and paid to a SuDeriatcnd
of Indian affairs in the Southern Department, that may be n
nated by the President, and appointed by, and with the adv.ee
consent of the Senate, the sum oi pet j ay
his expenfcs, for the time he may be employed in a'lteudnto®
treaty, proposed to be held by the Commi'dioners of the UnuM
States and the Creek Indian , at the Rock-Laudiug, in the Sate of
Georgia, on the 15th day of September next
A 7" a thC treaty ftxQuld fa.l irl lhe de r,red ob.
jett, of eltabblnuig peace between the citizens of the United Stat
and the Creek Indians, Congress will make such grants of montv
and pursue such other measures, as will be necessary fottheprottt
tion and fafety of the inhabitants of the southern frontiers a .j
best secure the peace of United States,"
And on motion to accept the report, it patted inthe negative
On motion, that it be 6
Resolved, That the President of the United States be requeued
to nominate a fit person for Superintendant of Indian affairs inthe
Southern Department, in order that he may be fentforward ailoon
as may be, to ast with the Commiflioners of Indian affairs inthe
Southern Department, appointed pursuant to a refolutionof Con
gress, paifed on the dav of and aid them in carrying into
effect a treaty that is proposed to be held with the Creek Nation
on the i s th day of September next, in the State of Georgia at thiJ
Rock-Landing.— * '
That the sum of dollars be delivered to the faidSu.
penntendant, to be appropriated for the immediate purpose ofthe
faii treaty, for which sum he (hall be accountable
That the President of the United States be-eequefted to inftruft
the said Superintendant and Commiirioners, to hear and fully i U .
veftigate all the complaints and grievances, of the said Creek In
dians, and to use all the means in their power to quiet their minds
and do them ample justice, agreeably to the aforefaid refolutionof
Congress, and inilru&iam heretofore given for that purpose: That
if the said Indians (hould prove rcfraftory, orrefufeto treat and
establish peace oujuft and reasonable terms, then and in that cafe
the said Superintendant and Commillioners be dire&ed to make
immediate report thereofto the President of the United States, and
Congress will make such grants of money and pursue such other
measures, as will be necessary for the fafety and prote&ionof the
inhabitants of the Southern frontiers, and best secure the peace of
the United States,"—lt pafled iu the negative.
On motion, that it be
Resolved, That the President of the Uuited States be author,
ifed and empowered, and he is eereby authorised and empower
ed, (hould the Creek Indians decline to make peace with the State
of Georgia, to take effectual measures for covering the Srate of
Georgia from the incursions of the Indians, either by ordering foiae
of the troops now at Fort Harmar to march to the frontiers of
Georgia, or by embodying such a number of the militia as he fliall
think fufficient to insure to the citiiens of Georgia protection, and
the cultivation of their lands in peace and security, and that he be
empowered to draw on the Treasury for defraying the expenfei
of the fame"—And on motion for the previous question, to wit:
44 Shall the main question be now put ?" it pafled in the negative.
Adjourned.
ADVERTISEMENT.
EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE OHIO COMPANY.
\ X /'NEREAS, in the opinion of the Agents, it is very much
VV for the interest of the proprietors at large, that all the
lands of the purchase (hould be divided and allotted as immedi
ately as may be—And in order to accommodate them generally
by the option of claflingas they may think proper, and drawing
their rights or (hares (where they may poflefs more than ose)
either together in contiguity, or by detaching and annexing them
to diftinft claffesor divisions (at their own ele&ion) to give them
the greater chance for variety in foil and fituation—Jtisunani
moufly refolved,That as foonas the exploring committee /hallhave
appropriated the lands for donation fettlemenU,in quantity fufici
ent for all the proprietors,Wi nthrop Sarcent,JosephGili-
man, and Rrtur n J. Meigs, Esquires, who are hereby appoint
ed a committee for that purpose,(hall immediately make out,upon
a large fcale,a complete map or plan of the whole purchase from the
bed information,which they may be then able to obtain,exprefling
all the lands of the eight acre, three acre, city lots and common*,
one hundred and sixty acre, and donation lots, the referred lots
of Congress, school lots, and lots appropriated for religions pur
poses—also, the two townships given by CongTefs for an univer/i
---ty,and the towns or situations for towns to be reserved bythecora*
panv for a future allotment.—That, all the residuary lands Hull
be, by them, the said committee of three, divided andnumbtrtd
upon paper, into forty equal grand divisions of twenty-five ftiarcs
each, as like in quality as may be: That each grand divifien be
divided into five sub-divisions of five shares each, and eachfub
divifion into fe£lions of single (hares :—That as soon as the map
or plan is completed, the agents will form or class their fubferib
ers (who (hall not previously class themselves) by fe&ions or single
(hares, into sub-divisions of five, and grand divisions of twenty
five, and immediately proceed to drawing V>y lot for said lands;
by grand divisions, sub-divisions and feftions : That in ail
draughts of sub-divisions (into fe&ions) which may be madeup ot
proprietors,holding four,three, or two and single (hares,it (hallbe
the usage for the greatest proprietor, or holder of the greatest
number of shares, to take his lands in contiguity, by lot, either m
the southern or northern part of the sub-division, where they (hall
be numbered from north to south, and in the western or eastern
(by lot also) where they may be numbered from weft toeaft; aoa
where sub-divisions may be made up of two proprietors of two
(hares each, and one of one share, the two greatest proprie
tors (hall receive their feftions, by lot, either inthe fouthernor
western part of the sub-division. ReJolved> That the before na
med committee, be directed to prepare the names and numbers,
and make all the neceffarjr arrangements forth# intended draught:
That previous to the drawing for this ultima** grand division <>'
lands, there fhallbe returns of the proprietors, as they may"be
claflfed by the agents (or other wife) lodged in the Secretary's omcc»
and it is recommended in all cases to consult the inclinations and
interefUof the proprietors in the order of clafling.
Resolved, That the agents will give public notice of the rime an
place of drawing, and that there be two perfonsno ways mtereit
ed in the draughts, who shall be sworn to the faithfully raN^ n .?.
out the names and numbers from the boxes, and who alone (ha
be employed in this business for the draught of grand aivifions,
sub-divisions, and fe&ions.
Resolved, That the Secretary cause the foregoing resolutions to
be publilhed in the newspapers of New-York, and the
England States ; to the end that the proprietors at large may
the option of clailing themselves as they may think proper • n
they are hereby requested so to do, and to express theme
upon thisJubjetl r either to their refpe&ive agents, or by inform
tion in writing addrefled to, and to be lodged with the
at his office in the city of Marietta,previous to the firftMon a ) ~
March, 1790 —Upon which day it is expe&ed the J?
take place. W I N T H R O P S A R G E NT,
Secretary to the Ohio
Marietta. 3d November, 1789.