[No. LXXII.]
THE TABLET.
No. LXXII.
" We often fancy or forge an effect, and then set
ourselves ai gravely as ridhuloitjly to find out the
caitfe."
FROM a curiosity which is innate in man,
he is of ten hurried into researches after
knowlege on l'uchfalfegrounds,as willbetray him
into decep ion, in proportion as he extends his
purfuiis. If we took nothing for granted, that
had no foundation in facft ; and cherilhed no
principles, that were unfupportcd by reai'on, our
enquiries would be much fewer, and our reflec
tions much less tedious, than they are. Theplea
fure of delusion is so captivating that men reluct
antly bear restraints upon the imagination. No
period of time has been exempt from a variety
of popular fallhoods and errors. Even those ages,
that have been molt celebrated for learning and
philosophy, have been agitated with many frivo
lous disputes, which were deemed important
from the characters who engaged in them, and
from the vanity and zeal that were exhibited
through the difcuflion. How many men, who have
ail'umed the name of philosophers, have exhauft
cd their lives in examining the absurdities and
exploding the heresies of former fecfts or philo
sophers ! How njany persons, who would palm
themselves upon the world as wife and learned
men, have wafted their days in the most labor
ious studies, without discovering an important
truth, or recommending a ufeful virtue !
It would be expecting too much from human
nature, to hope there ever will be a period, when
reason is not liable to be borne away on the wings
of imagination, and when truth is not obfeured
by folly and prejudice. The superstition of past
times, however, is so far diflipated bytlie progress
of science, thatthe road to truth seems.to be more
open and practicable. We hear few storieS of
evil spirits ; doctrine of witchcraft and
enchantments is general!j'exploded. The mind,
relieved from the fears and delusions that such
imaginary evils fuggelt, is left more at liberty to
contemplate upon things that have a real cxift
ence. This gives an advantage to our researches,
by turning our attention to subjects that can be
examined by rational evidence, and afford fonie
degree of precilion and certainty. Our thinking
faculty cannot remain itill and unexerted. It
must have materials for contemplation ; and it
will create ideal and visionary images if acftual
ones are unknown or disregarded. For this rea
son, ignorant people fall a prey to falfe opinions,
and to a thousand imaginary terrors, which an
enlightened mind defpilesand rejecfts.
Curiosity has fucli power over the foul, as to
make it often delight most in pursuing objetfts
that are new and extraordinary. The uncer
tainty of the attainment sometimes puflies us fur
ther into the dark, and when we are involved in
mystery, we do not fufpeift we have wandered
from the truth, but that it is too incomprehenfi
bletobe underftaod. Thus many a man has per
plexed his understanding in seeking causes, for
what never existed, but in his diforuered imagi
nation. Every person should eftablifli it as a rule,
when he hears an aflertion, to enquire as to the
fa (ft alledge'd, before he troubles liimfelf to ex
plore thecaufe of it. By this means, a conlider
able part of the investigations, wlth.il puzzle the
human mind, would be avoided.
In a country where the people are generally
so well educated, as they are in America, they will
not easily be duped by magic tales, or deluded
by enthusiastic rliapfodies. No pretender to any
special communion with invisible beings, whether
they be good or evil, can now draw any number
of people into a delusion. Those who advance
principles that admit not of some clear and ra
tional explication, cannot expeift to propagate
them cxtenfively ; and those, who sport with hy
potheies that appear extravagant, will be called
to the bar of denicrnftration to receive their juit
sentence. Can we then estimate too highly the
advantages of the many schools and universities
which are interspersed over the various parts of
our country ? Can any pains or cxpences be deem
ed too great, for rearing up a generation of men
who will be proof againit the absurdities that have
characterized past ages of ignorance and bigotry ;
and who will have knowledge to understand civil
liberty, and spirit to defend it ? Are any anti
cipations-, too bold and extravagant, of the attain
ments that will probably result from a state of
society f» perfect, as that to which wo are hasten
iug ? How many of the causes, that occasioned
the wre.tchednefsand downfall of antient nations,
Would have been removed, had they been blelled
vith the inltituikms, we now enjoy ?
SATURDAY, December 19, 1739.
FROM THE SALEM MERCURY.
December i.
The President of tlie United States, in
his late tour through this State, was pleased to
honor the town of Marblehead by a ihort visit.
He was received at the entrance of the town, by
the Selectmen, the Clergy of the town, and a
numerous body of Citizens, and was conducted
to the house of Mrs. Lee, where a collation had
been provided, of which he very cheerfully par
took, with the Gentlemen of his Suite, the Select
men, Clergymen and other Gentlemen of the
town.— The President, afterwards, with that at
tention by which he encourages every ufeful em
ployment, vilited one of the Fish Yards, and
exprclled his earnefi wishes for the success of the
indultrious people of Marblehead. Onthisplea
ling occasion, the Selectmen, in the name of the
Inhabitants, had the honor to present their AD
DRESS ; of which, with! the ANSWER of the Prer
fident, we insert the following copies, but lately
received.
TO GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President ok the United States.
SIR,
YOUR presence has inspired the Inhabitants of
Marblehead with the mo It unbounded joy ;
but they cannot express, as they would wiih, their
grateful sense of the honor done them on this
occasion. The two visible decay and poverty of
this town inufl. be their excuse, that they have
not offered to the illustrious Character who now
visits them, a reception more answerable to his
dignity, and more expreflive of their own vene
ration.
The Blessings of Independence and a Republi
can Government must ever excite our gratitude
and affection to so eminent a Supporter of the
Public Liberty, whose wifdotu and valor have so
fuccefsfully defended the rights of his country.
The eltablifhment, by the United States, of a
secure and efficient Government, gives us the
pleating expectation of the gradual revival of our
Fifliery and Commerce—objects of the indultry,
and principal means of the fubfiltence, of the
Inhabitants of this place, for above a century
previous to the late revolution. In the com
mencement ot the eontelt with Great-Britain,
this Town were early in their exertions in the
common cause ; and were not discouraged, when
they forefaw that reverie of their lituation, which
the war has neceflarily produced. The return
of peace did not restore to us the former advan
tages of the Fifliery, which liarli remained under
peculiar discouragements : and we have yet
patiently to-expect that attention of the General
Governiilent, which may remedy these evils, and
which thefubject may deserve, from its extensive
importance to the commerce of the United States.
The present Government of the United States
commands our ready fubmiflion, and inviolable
attachment : and we deem it a peculiar felicity,
that the highest dignity of that Government is
so properly vested in you ; in whom all America
repose the most entire confidence ; in whose ad
miniftrarion, the world will admire the example
of a Patriot-Rules.
Sir,our anxiety for your lieahli and long life is
proportionate to our most ardent wishes for the
prof'perirv of our country ; and we are well as
sured, that you will ever partake in the happiness
of that numerous people, over whom you preside.
May the Divine Providence continue to favor
your care and guidance of their most important
public affairs, and reward your virtues, which
have been so long employed in promoting the
happiness of mankind.
In behalf cf the Town of Marblehead, Oflober
29/1789.
Isaac Mansfield, ~|
Jonathan Glover, |
John Glover,
Samuel Sewall, ! p , „
, u } Selectmen
Samuel Hooper, <
Nath'l Lindl'cy,
B-urrel Devereux,
Richard Harris,
To the INHABITANTS of the Town of MAR
blehead.
GENTLEMEN,
THE reception, with which you have been pleased
to honor my arrival in Marblehead, and thefft:-
tinients of approbation,and attaebmeut, which you have
exprejfed oj my conduit, and to my person, are too
flattering and grateful not to bt acknowledged with
sincere thanks, and answered with unfeigned wishes
for your prosperity.
Avoiding to dwell on the diminution of plsafure,
which the mention of your impaired circum fiances ot-
\PtibliJhst■ w IVedncfday a/:d Saturday.j
cafiu us r:e, J dfire to engage y our thoughts on the
pleating profpeCl pre fait id to .:il our inter dp, and
particular.7 to our fifhery, in thi effic'nucy of our
government, .aid the invigorated industry oj our citi
zens.
Prctefled in the txtrsi/'e of those means, which the
beneficent Parent of mankind has furnijhed for their
sustenance and comfort, the citizens of America, ani
mated by virtuous enterprise, and actuated by due
obedience to the laves and regulations of their govern
ment, may expett, with confidence, to enjoy every
blejjittg which industry can promise, and national un
ion may ensure.
Tour attachment to the constitution of the United
States is worthy of men, who fought and bled forjrce
dom, and who know its value.
Tour anxiety for my health, and your prayers for
my happiness, are replied to with solicitude for your
welfare, and earnejl entreaty to the Author of Good
for your felicity. G. WASHINGTON.
LONDON. ——
Fjom Woodfall's Diarv.
IN the year 1767, the ships Indian Queen, Duke
of York, Nancy, and Concord, ot'Briftol, the
Edgar of Liverpool, and the Canterbury, of Lon.
don, lay in old Calabar rjver.
It happened at this time that a quarrel fubifift
ed between the principal in habitants of Old Town
and those of New Town, Old Calabar, which had
originated in a jealousy refpec r ting Slaves. The
Captains of theveflels now mentioned, united in.
fending several letters to the inhabitants of Old
Town, but particularly to Epliraim Robin John,
who was at that time a grandee, and a principal
inhabitant of the place. The universal tenor cf
these letters was, that they were sorry that any
jealousy or quarrel should subsist between the
two parties ; that if the inhabitants of Old Town
would come on board, they would afford them se
curity and protection ; adding, at the fame time,
that their intention in inviting them was, that
they might become mediators, and heal their dis
putes.
The inhabitants of Old Town, happy to find
that their differences were likely to be reconciled,
joyfully accepted the invitation. The three
brothers of the grandee just mentioned, the el
dell of whom was Ambue' Robin John, firft enter
ed their canoe, attended by twenty-seven others,
and being followed by nine canoes, directed their
course to the Indian Queen. They were dispatch
ed from thence the next morning to the Edgar,"
and afterwards to the Duke of York, 011 board or
which they went, leaving their canoe and atten
dants by the fide of the fameveffel. In the mean
time the people 011 board the other canoe, were
either diitributed on board, or lying clofeto the
other ships.
This being the situation of the three brothers,
and of the principal inhabitants of the place, the
treachery now began to appear. The crew of tlie
Duke of York, aided by the captain and mates, and
armed with pistols and cutlafles, rushed into the ca
bin, with an intent to seize the persons of their
three innocent and unsuspicious guests. The un
happy men, alarmed at this flagrant violation of
the rights of hospitality, and struck with alton
ifhment at the behavior of their supposed friends,
attempted to escape through the cabin windows \
but being wounded, were obliged todefift, and to
submit to be put in irons.
Inthefame momentin which this attrocious at
tempt had been made, an order had been given to
fire upon the canoe, that was then lying by the
fide of the Duke of York. The canoe soon filled
and funk, and the wretched attendants were
seized, killed or drowned. Most of the other
ships immediately followed the example. Great
numbers were additionally killed and drowned on
the occasion and others were fwiinming to the
Ihore.
At this juncture, the inhabitans of New-Town,
who had concealed tliemfelves in the bushes by
the water-fide, and between whom and the com
manders of the veflels the plan had been previous
ly concerted, came out from their hiding places,
and embarking in their canoes, made for i'uclias
were swimming from the fire of the Ihips. The
ships boats also were inltantly manned, andjoiu
ed in the pursuit. They butchered the greatest
part of those they caught. Many dead bodies
were loon seen upon the sands, and others were
floating during the whole of the day upon the wa
ter ; and including those that were seized and
carrried off, and those that were drowned and
killed, either by the firing of the ships, or the peo
ple of New-Town, three hundred were loitto the
inhabitants of Old Town on that day.
The carnage, which I have been nowdefcribing
was scarcely over, when a canoe, full of principal
people of New Town, who had been the promotersof the fell eme, tlfopped along-fule of the Duke of
York. They demanded the person of Ambx
Robin John, the brother of the grandee of Old
Town, and theeldeft of the threeon board. The
unfortunate man put the palms of his hands toge
ther, and befeeched the commander of the vetfel
that he would not violate the rights of hospitality,
Jior give up an unoffending itranger to his ene
mies. No intreaties could avail with the harden
ed Christian. Ke received from them a slave of
the name of Econg in his stead, and then forced
him into the canoe, where his head was imme
diately struck off in the fight of the crew, and of
his aiflidrcd and disconsolate brothers. As for
theui, they escaped his late ; but they were car
ried off with their attendants to the European co
lonies, and fold for (laves.
LONDON, October 16.
M. Bouche, deputy from Aix, lately declared,
that t he number of French, who had left their
country, exceeded 80,000, and that their subsist
ing revenue might be dated at 15 or 20 millions.
The scarcity of bread, which threatened a fa
mine at r*aris, and was partly supposed to cause
the late con volfion at Versailles, immediately ceas
ed, and plenty was proclaimed on the King's ar
rival at Paris. Ever since that time the citizens
have been compof'ed and fatisfied refpe<sling the
article of corn.
PARIS, August 2S. .
To prevent the scarcity of bread as much as pos
sible, several families of the patriotic party have
adopted the plan of eating rice inltead of bread,
which has been of great service ; and premiums
havebeen offered to labourers, as an encourage
ment fortheir workingdouble tides, to get in the
harvest, and furnifli the markets with freih grain.
There is no doubt but this scarcity is kept up by
some secret engines of the court party, enemies to
the present revolutions, whofeobject it is to fo
ment disturbances under the present lyftem of
Government. They have succeeded in several
instances, particularly in the frontier towns,
■where large quantities of grain are daily coming
from foreign markets, but are carried off without
any one's knowing what becomes of it.
October 10. A motion was made in the Aflem
bly on Saturday, for every Member to engage
upon his honor not to wear, or to purcltafe for
auy purpose, any but French manufatftures ; and
that his Majesty should be immediately petitioned
to famftion the resolution. A member cautioned
the friends of the motion against the confequen
cesthnt my ensue from foreign powers comingto
a resolution of the fame nature. The motion was
loft, not withdrawn, amidst violent noise andcon
fufion on all fides.
The invalid noti-commiflioned officers have
been admitted to the National AfTembly, with an
offering of 41. 4s. 2d. A Coffee-houfe boy (Coffe
dejoy) haspref'ented il.
FROM THE DAILY ADVERTISER OF YESTERDAY.
JUETHOD OF PRESERVING THE BEAUTY
OK TEETH.
FROM A LETTER OF DOCTOR MITCHELL, TO
SOME experiments which I have made upon
human teeth by calcination and solution,
convince me that they contain, particularly in
their outer coat, or covering, a large proportion
of calcario'us earth. This incrustation is
Screened by the arteries of the teeth, and regu
larly depolired all around, to defend them from
outward accidents. When it is corroded or worn
off, and the naked bone exposed to the operation
of air, fpittlc and ailiment, the diseased teeth
soon corrupt. While it remains unhurt and en
tire, they generally continue ufeful and orna
mental. But what avails the knowledge of these
facts, unless we gain some practical advantage by
thtm ? Fi om these fac r ts then, we may learn, that
the enamel of the teeth, which is so remote from
the influence of blood and nerves as to be near
ly allied to inanimate matter, is, like chalk, egg
iliclls and marble, readily a<fted upon by acids.
Whence a fuflicient reason appears, why very
tart apples occasion, soon after eating them, a
fort of soreness or unpleasant sensation in the
teeth ; why the frequent use of sharp vinegar in
pickles and fallads is injurious ; why lemon-juice
and tamarinds are also deitru&ive ; why spirit of
vitriol is itill more ruinous ; and why foot and
tartar, employed as dentrifices, by the acid they
contain, are often productive of irreparable mif
chief —as likewise why young folks who indulge
the pernicious habit of chewing allum, damage
their teeth exceflively. Hence too we may further
learn, that the bell way to preveut thejr decay
and loss, is to wash them frequently with ture
water, and wipe them clean with a foft towel,
and neither chemically cor rode them witn vegeta
ble and mineral acids,nor mechanically wear them
away by fcourinq; with hard and gritty powders.
Does it now feein at all wonderful, as people
are accullomed to take so many hurtful substances
into their mouths, that the teeth should fufler
detriment thereby ? Is it not ra her a matter of
surprise, considering all these things, that many
have any teeth left ? And is not your question,
" Why are bad teeth so common ?" in a gotxl
! measure anfvvered ?—So far therefore, as the pre •
fentfubjec r t extends,the preservation of BEAUTY
depends upon a f'ure and certain principle, easy
to be understood and followed. As to that liar
, mony of shape and features in which the remain
ing part of beauty consists, the pious Mr. Lava,-
ter thinks it is inleparably connected with moral
excellence ; I /hall therefore only add in the sen
timent of this molt able phyfioguoinift, that, the
■way to be handsome, is to be good.
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE GUEST. No. VI.
44 History is the Returie&ion of pafl ages."
PERMIT me to recommend to my young readers
the study of history, as the bell, and molt ufeful
source of knowledge :—Here the volume of nature
is unfolded, whole pages are the records of ex
perience—Here we may learn wisdom of the most
durable and important kind—and enjoy the be
nefit of those rules which result from the trials of
; virtue, and the misfortunes of folly, at theexpence
of part ages. History inspires caution, without
darkening the wind with prejudice, or suspicion
—It teaches us a just estimate of mankind, and
abates the awkwardness of surprise and wonder,
so natural to the uninformed.
The study of History is at once pleasing and
profitable—lt does not require intense application
—It may betaken up at a moment ofleifure, and
relinquished as other avocations intervene—and
thus may be made a save-all of the scraps of time,
none of which should be loft—for, as has been
observed, " of all prodigality, that of time is the
most fhameful."
History elevates the mind to a lofty eminence,
from whence we take a perspective view of the
tranfat r tions of mankind—Of those mighty events
and over-ruling which have deter
mined the fate of Kingdoms, States and Empires
—and while the a<flors on the world's great thea
tre pass in review before us, we are deterred from
adopting the habits of infamy, by the general
fate of vicious examples—and charmed to a love
of virtue, by the glory and happiness which crown
the actions of the wife and benevolent.
It is difficult to account for the general senti
ment, that History written at the period when
the tranfadtions recorded take place, is common
ly partial, without stigmatizing human nature ;
but the observation has too often been verified, to
be denied—Fear, favor, and affection, in some
form or other,have almost uniformly found means
to influence the pens of cotemporary writers :—
However universal this opinion may be, it is to
be hoped, for the honor and advantage of man
kind, that America will, if /he has not already,
produce Historians who shall intrepidly, and im
partially relate, the great events that her intre
pid sons have atchieved :—The relation of the
moment, if falfe, may be detected; but if time
rolls his oblivious waves over the transactions of
our country, before they are inferibed on the
page of History, many glorious actions will be
loft—and many a hero will be robbed of the ho
nors that immortality ought to iinprefs on his
memory.
Truth, is a fliort, but comprelienfive motto
—An liiftorian fliould make it his polar Star—re
jecting trifles—Extraordinarics, both good and
bad, should be faithfully recorded : The truth,
told of bad characters, in a well-wrote History,
holds tlieui up to eveilafting infamy—and makes
them serve as beacons to future ages—while it
proves the best elogium on the benefactors of
mankind—wliofe example excites the admiration,
and ensures the imitation of the wife and good,
wliilethey contemplate the fame glorious reward.
To learn the past, and future fate of Man,
With critic eye, the page of Hist'r y scan ;
From facts alone, Wifdotn her maxims draws,
And traces consequences to their cause :
Here Ages to the mind pass in review,
And Nature in the jlifted mirror fliew.
Ilappy the youth, whose free, unfetter'd mind,
Draws from this source, Truth, fimpleand refin'd ;
Who builds on Fa c ts the system of his creed,
And oftly follows whete dictateslr: ci.
UNITED STATES.
RICH M O N D, December
On Monday the twelve amendments to th"
ftitution of the United States proposed by Con'-
grefs were agreed to by the House of Deletes'
This circumstance cannot fail of giving general
fatisfaction to the community at large, Since i
proves thefincerity of thofc who were friends to
the government, when they declared in the Con
vention, that they would join its adversaries in
their endeavours to procure such as were rational
and proper, and would serve to remove the Tem
ples and fears of the confeientious and honelt •
For the friends to the federal government favored
these amendments even more than its adversaries.
From hence we may fairly conclude that a gene
ral union of fentinient on this great quelliouwill
Ihortly take place, and that such other amend
ments as may claim the attention ofCongrefs upon
similar principles will be acceded to by them and
us without opposition. The Senate is vet to de
cide upon the fnbjecft before the adoption on the
part of this State is complete—but as they too are
the Representatives of the people, and 110 doubt
inspired with the fame sentiments of patriotism
andwifhes to quiet the minds of the doubtful, and
apprehensive amongst their fellow-citizens—it
would be indelicate and offenfive even to suppose
that their votes on the subject will be different
from that of the House of Delegates.
Our most worthy and illustrious President, by
proclamation, was pleased " to recommendtothe
people of the United States, Thursday the 26th
ult. a day of public thanksgiving and prayer, to
be observed, by acknowledging with grateful
hearts the many signal favors of Almighty God,
especially by affording them an opportunity to
establish a form of government for their fafety
and happiness." On this solemn occafiondivine
service was performed in the house of delegates,
and the Rev. Mr. Blagrove, chaplain to the gene
ral aflembly, delivered a most excellent discourse
to a very refpec r table and numerous audience.
PHILADELPHIA, December 10.
The General Aflembly of this commonwealth
adjourned yesterday morning, to meet at the
State-House in thiscity on the firftTuefday in Fe
bruary next.
Yesterday forenoon the Convention for altering
and amending the Constitution of this State, in a
committee of the whole, reported, that the Legis
lative department fhouldconfift of two branches—
That the Executive Ihould be vested in a fmgle
person, under proper restrictions—
That the Judges Ihould hold their offices during
good behaviour, and be independent as to their
salaries, under certain limitations—
That the Supreme Executive Powerfhouldhave
a qualified negative upon the Legislature; and
that the Declaration of Rights requires alterations
and amendments, so as that the rights reserved
from the general powers of government may be
more accurately defined and secured.
December 12.
Thursday last the Convention for altering and
amending the Constitution of this State took up
and considered, separately, the resolutions re
ported in a committee of the whole on Wednef
day-
After which they were adopted, almost unani
mously.
The House then agreed to appoint a committee
of nine to prepare a draught of the New Conten
tion ; and the resolutions aforefaid are to be in
(lru&ions to the committee, as far as they ex
tend.
And yesterday the following gentlemen weie
appointed a committee to prepare a draught 0
the New Constitution :
William Findley, Edward Hand, Henry
James Wilson, William Irvine, William Lewis,
James Rofs, Charles Smith, and Alexander /
difon, Esquires.
It is with uncommon pleasure we behold at lad
the extinction of party spirit in Pennfyl^ 111 *'
The candor and liberality of Meflr's. M" 63 " 1 '
Wilson, Lewis, Sitgreaves, and others on 1
federal, and the accommodation and good en
r>f Meflr's. Findley and M'Clean 011 the late a' 11
federal fide of the question, have given the 1; '
eft fatisfadlion to all clafles of attendants 011 -
proceedings of the Convention. Reason
last recovered her long loft dominion anlo "" ve
and there is now no doubt but we shall 3
wife and energetic government that vv'Jl
and unite 9-roths of our citizens. Heaven
the wife and enlightened men that fu'ft P 31
a Convention for altering our Conftitutioni
thereby saved us from the anarchy ami 0 y
aCouncil of Censors ! Too much praise can
given likewise to the venerable oh- re PJI. an( j 3 l
party, who under immense torrents o
have persevered, and at length peaces ) : es )
ed, (and even with the consent ot 1 „e*r
a change in our government. Among 1 £ te &
speakers in the Convention who have a , , |jf orl
the attention of the public are Men rs - ton
of Wafliington and Sitgreaves or ■> learning
counties. The firft discovers reading anin all liis speeches. The last is eloquent, elofe,
and pointed in all his observations. ]f this young
gentleman proceedsas he has begun, he muftone
day rife to great eminence in political life.
NEW-YORK, December 19!
On Tuesday Evening the exhibitions at the
Theatre were doled with the HEIRESS—the
MISER, and DARBY's RETURN ; after which
Mrs. Henry spoke the following farewell Epi
logue.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
EPILOGUE.
Spoken by Mrs. Henry, at the Theatre, on Tuesday Evening
[IV ritten by the author oj " American Shandy ism."]
CjT OOD truth! that they should ever pitch on me,
The Company's Ambafladrefs to be,
J, who so oft appear with face of woe,
Am sent, their cheerful gratitude to show.
44 Now had they wilh'd to lend some mournful f)hi2,
44 To deprccate your wrath, and flop a hiss —
44 Or had some author who in doleful dumps,
44 Trembled for fear his cards should not prove trumps,
44 In Green Room quakipg, like some half-drown'd whelp,
44 In piteous tone, half dead, demanded help ;
44 Then should I, in my element have been,
44 And swept the boards like any tragic Queen —
" Have knit my brows, and told my whining ditty,
44 Such faces made, as must have mov'd your pity.
44 But now I shall not do my duty half,
14 I'm one of those who scarce know how to laugh;
• 4 Tho, for the foul of me, I can't conceive,
44 How any reason I can find to giieve :
Good benefits in spite of our demerits,
Have given us all, a mighty flow of spirits;
And tho I am not equal to my part,
'Tis not bccaufe of an ungrateful heart;
1 feel the favors we each night receive,
And shall be thankful long as I may live.—-
Not I alone—l represent them all—
And for the task, indeed I am too small,
For boundlcfs gratitude we sure must feel,
Whilst without bounds your favors thus you deal.
[In diflrefs, and lookingjor the Prompter.]
Oh dear—l'm out—what's next—speak, Mr. Gay,
Oh dear—he's gone—and I have nought to fay—
[Somebody behind the Curtain.]
Something about the Stage—
[Mrs. Henry.] Aye, aye, the stage—
That must. improve, in this improving age.
When Greece was free, and Athens 44 bore the bell,"
The Stage was Virtue's School, as authors teJl,
There from the boards, just fentimcnt and truth,
By age applauded,form'd the minds of vouth :
With Liberty, the Mufcs love to dwell—
And Liberty gains ground, Newspapers tell.
What think ye ? May not Truth flafh'd from the Stage,
Help to keep up thi? truly glorious rage ?
Perhaps some Politician there in front,
Cries, 44 Mrs. Henry, what do you think on't ?
Why troth, Sir, if I must give my opinion.
As men gain knowledge—freedom gains dominion ;
For, as I heard my dear good husband fay,
(As we were coming to rehearse to day,)
44 That man, who knows the rights which nature gave,
And is notJree, defervesto be a flavt."
Now from the may not those rights be shown,
And all Man's truly known?
They may ! and under guidance of your taste,
Each day our scenes improve, and grow more chaste;
While thus encourag'd, arduoully we'll ftnve,
And do our best to keep the flame alive :
The glorious flame ! whose firft unsteady blaze,
Will soon be fix'd as Sol's all cheering rays ;
Dart thro the wideexpanfe, illume mankind,
E'en Asia's Sons 110 longer shall be blind,
B it join the one gr-it cause o/LIBERTY ;
Winlft the world's voice cries 44 greatly dare be free."
But'midft this joy, what mean those d final groans ?
Ah ! sure, they come from Afric's fable Sons!
Oh let not truth offend! wipe out the stain !
Shall Freedom's Sons on others put the chain !
Dctcftcd thought ! soon may we hope to fee, }
Columbia, Europe, Alia, Afric, fr*ee, >
One Genius reign through all—Eternal Liberty. )
And now, alas ! wc come to taking leave—
Cheer'd with applause, we know not how to grieve;
Love, duty, sorrow, fill our hearts in turn,
But above all, with gratitude they burn ;
During our abfiMice we will strive to prove,
The worthy objects of yourfuture love.
NOTE.
The lines marked with inverted Comma's, were omitted by Mrs. Henry.
THE NATIONAL MONITOR.
No. XXXI.
The Child, whom many Fathers (hare,
Hath seldom known a Father's care.
Gay.
r T*HE afliimptionof the State'Dcbts, by thcGe
neral Government, appears inore and more
interesting: Ic is hardly polfible to conceive how
the peace and tranquility of the Union can be
preserved, and justice done to every denomina
tion of our domestic creditors, npon any other
plan. The idea of the individual governments'
making adequate provilion to pay the interell of
their particular debts, m ufl: prove illufory—ior if,
when they were in poflellion of all their refpe<ftive
funds, it was considered as an oppressive meafnre,
to make competent aflfeflments and appropriations
for this purpose, the. plea of incapacity applies
with additional force, as things are now circurn
ftanced.
It may be expe<sled that this just, and politic
measure, will meet with opposition—and it is to
be feared,that those who have been advocates for
this aifutnption, may have impreflions made upon
their minds, different from thofethat liave hither
to actuated them, upon a prefuinption that the
States will fund their debts 011 Excises and dry
Taxes. A few reflections will serve, however, to
fliew, that this dependence must fail them : From
long experience, the creditors of the State Go
vernments must be convinced, that their hopes
of future justice in the line they have been in,
reft on a very (lender basis—They must suppose
that the willingness of the States to pay in future,
will receive ftrengtli from the diminution of their
ability—and that their desire to give fatisfacTion
to their creditors will call forth resources super
ior to those now vcfted in the General Govern
ment. This is so improbable, that it requires a
ltretch of credulity to countenance thefuppofition.
Butif it fliould be granted, that through the in
fluence of a temporary jealousy of the General
Government, fo-ne of the States may make extra
exertions to fund their debts, it is evident that the
complex system which would grow out of the
measure, must occasion prodigious loss both to the
Stat°s' and Continental treasuries—and in a very
short time the people would consider themselves
as ground between the upper and nether mill
stone :—Such a situation would iflue in the total
defeat of the hopes founded on State-Financier
ing. The fame funds placed under one set of di
rectors, would probably pay much more, than if
divided under two—butif in the hands of twelve
or thirteen different bodies, all atfting indepen
dently of each other—the lofles and deficiencies
will not be perhaps less than jopr. cent. In short
the State creditors, by diverting their hopes from
the Stategovernment,will eventually realize their
demands; they may fufFer a temporary suspension
in their receipts, and that is all.—On the other
hand, they may be amused by a profpeiS: nearer
home, but it will vaniih at last, and leave them
no other resort, than that which now presents,
and which they will then fee, they might have
availed themselves of much sooner, with greater
facility, and more to their advantage* The ope
ration of one general plan of taxation, in conjunc
tion with twelve or thirteen rival systems, must
be attended with inexplicable difficulties.—The
expcnce of diftincl sets of officers—the tempta
tions to frauds by different rates of duties—the
difficulty of securing the collecftion upon several
thousand miles of frontier, the incapacitj of the
States to meddle with goods when imported;
and so to check frauds, that power being now in
Congress, and many other reasons, all combine
to (new the absurdity of different and clashing
powers being exerted to effetft that, which ought
to be one bufineft.
NEW-YORK, DECEMBER 19.
We are still in the dark as to the iflue of the
late commotions at Versailles ; and this uncer
tainty is further increased by the contradictory
accounts of the origin of these commotions. If
the King seriously meditated a design of quitting
Versailles and the National Aflembly in order to
join his army,it is probable some system was form
ed, and that,movements among the exiled Princes
may be the consequence, of which it remains that
accounts be received. If the whole affair arose
from a bacchanalian faux pas, it may serve to fug
ged a ufeful hint to the National AHembly: viz.
?o quicken their diligence in perfecting the new
Constitution, since there is no calculating the va
riableness of the popular opinion.
Extrall of a letter from North-Carolina,Dec. 2,1 7°9-
The only news I have to write you is that the
Convention of this State, contrary to general
expectation has ratified the Constitution—and
that our Grand Master, the late Governor Cas
well is dead.
On Tuesday the firft inft. the Judicial Court
for the diftrid: of Maine, was
opened in the town of Portland, before the Ho
norable Judge Sewell. The Oaths where then
adminiftered° to the Attorney-General, Marshal,
and Clerk, and the Court adjourned.
Bv late accounts from Charleston, S. C. it ap
pears, that all the public offices in that city have
been removed to Colunibia, the new feat of govern
ment. This measure may poffibty be produdivc of
advantage to the State ; but in the infancy of our
countryT it certainly appears hostile to the great
interest of the whole, to discourage tne_ capital set
tlements upon the lea coast. In thisviewthe/ro
bability is, that after incurring very great expence,
the landed isitereft: will feci tlie necessity ofagti'ni
removing the.feat of government, and fixing it
in its original lituation. The spirit of freedom
firtt appeared in our capital sea ports ; from thence
fpreaa into the interior country. Our capitals are
the feats of the arts, the Emporiums of trade,
the deposits, and refourccs of our wealth ; and
every meal'ure that contributes to their increale
and molt ellentially contribute tothe
general interelt.
I'he funding of the State debts by the respec
tive governments will be a measure fraught with
niifchievous consequences. There will be excilt-.-J
upon the impolt, and perhaps excise againlt ex
cil'e, confufion on confulion—trade will be em
barraded; manufactures, protected by the iin
poft, will be saddled in the consuming States with
excises ; a contest for power and revenue will en
sue, tothe reviving of bitter animosities, and the
deltruction of public credit. These ideas strong
ly suggest the propriety of placing the National
and State debts upon one and the fame footing :
The fame principle of justice pleads for the for
mer that does for the latter.
The State creditors,provided they are left to de
pend on the particular governments,will become
interested to diminilh the National revenue, in
'»rder to brighten their own prospects. But it must
be remembered, that they will, at the fame time,
be divided into twelve or thirteen different bodies,
that never did, and never can ad: conjointly in a
business of this kind; while the general Govern
ment, having one system pervading the whole Uni
on, mutt aCt to more certain eff,*Ct. The State
creditors, therefore, detached from the conti
nental, mult be fnlferers; but united with them,
and having the concentered fnnds of the United
States to depend on, their fate is involved, not in.
the fluctuating councils of a particular State, but
in the fate of the whole Continent.
Provided our national credit was established ill
such manner as to bring the public securities to
a fixed and certain value, what relief would trade,
manufactures, and agriculture derive from a per
manent influx of circulating medium ! This
desirable event doesjnotinaterially depend on the
rate of interelt, but on the certainty of the quan
tum which government can, and will pay. This
point fettled, the value of public paper will be
ascertained, and no future fluctuations of any
consequence will ensue. This conlideration, a
mong thousands of others that might be mention
ed, points out the absolute neceflity that fumething
lliould be done immediately.
The inequality of circumstances which prevails
among mankind, may be traced to a variety of
causes. Accident has no fmallfhare in producing
this disparity. But of all the causes that maybe
adduced, there is none to be compared to thole
which arifefroin the means of education : For tho
we often fee the foils of genius and learning, in.
wantandindigence ; yet in afree country, where
the avenues to honor and emolument are open to
all, we (hall find that by far the majority, owe
their eligible circumstances totheir early advan
tages of education - So that one capital source ot"
envy,which is agreater difturberof human happi
nels than manyare apt to imagine, may very ea
sily be removed by making suitable public provi
sion for ditleminating knowledge among all clafles
of the people.
There is a natural propensity in mankiud to re
duce all to one common level. Dean Swift's ob
servation is therefore founded on a just acquaint'
ance with humaa nature, when he fays,
Your altitude offends the eyes
Of those who want the pow'r to rife.
For tho it must be acknowledged, that elevated
circumstances often induce and are conneifted
with adomineering disposition, yet the desire to
rife, is asuniverfal asexiltence ; and the preferv
ationof personal poflefHons is a right that cannot
be monopolized or usurped, without violating,
theprinciples ot liberty. As the wheel of huinaa
affairs is in perpetual rotation, the poor (hould
remember that tliey, or their posterity, may be
come interelled in a sacred regard to the rights
of property and its consequent diftinCtions.
The study of geography isuniverfally approv
ed, and very generally introduced into our se
minaries of learning ; with this branch of edu
cation, liiftory appears to be very naturally con
nected ; and if added to the circle of studies, as
it might be with great ease, even in our molt in
ferior i'chools, it would prove a source of very va
luable improvement.
ARRIVALS.—NEW-YORK.
Wedntfday, Ship Willfon, M'Evers, Liverpool, 67 day?.
Brig Olive Branch, Lawrance, St. Martins, 20 days.
Brig Lively, Williamfon, Cayenne, 24 days.
Brig Amboy, Dykes, Cape-Francois.
Brig Loverretta, Siflare, St. Domingo, 36 days.
Sloop Nancy, Price, Philadelphia, 5 days.
Sloop Sally, Miller, Trinadada, 28 days.
Sloop Aurora, Cahoon, Rhode-Island, 3 davs.
Sloop Lady Green, Godfrey, Rhode-Island, 3 days.
Thurfiay, Ship Betsy, Denton, St. Thomas, 28 days.
BrigSnccels, Burke, Nevis.
Schooner Rebecca, Ryan, Wilmington, 6 davs.
Schooner Lively, Major, Kingston, Jam. 26 days.
Schooner Rover, Gardner, Shelburne, 17 days.
Friday, Sloop Three Friends, Clafon, St. Johns, 21 days.
Sleop Brandy, Mansfield, Cape Francois, 13 days;MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER XXIII.
Amsterdam, Oct. 27, 1780.
SIR,
/~\L EST ION twenty-fifth.—" Do they who have
loft their or fortunes by the mar, en
dure it patiently, as cow-patriots, Jo tbat nothing
can be feared from them ?"
Losing fortunes in America lias notfuch dread
ful consequences, to individuals or families, as
it has in Europe. The reason is obvious ; be.
caule the means of fubfillence are easier to be ob
tained, so that nobody fuffers for want. As far
as I am acquainted with fufferers. they have borne
their lolles, both of poverty, and relations, with
great fortitude ; and, lo far from producing in
their minds a desire of lubmiffion, they have on
ly served to irritate them, —to convince them
more fully of the precarious and deplorable situ
ation they would be in under the government of
the Engliih, and to make them more eager to
refill it.
Oueftion twenty-sixth—How has it gone with
" the cultivation oj the land, before the troubles, at
" their commencement, and at present ? What change
" has taken place
Agriculture ever was, and ever will be, the
dominant interest in America. Neverthelels, be
fore this war, perhaps, she run more into com
merce than was for her interest. She depended
too much, perhaps, upon importations for cloath
ing, uteniils, &c. and indulged in too many lux
uries. When the profpetfl opened in 1 775, of ail
interruption of her commerce, lhe applied her
felf more to agriculture ; and many places that
depended upon the lumber trade, tilefifhery, &c.
lor the importation of even their bread, have
turned their labor and attention to railing corn,
wool, flax and cattle, and h*ave lived better, and
advanced in wealth and independence fatter than
ever they did. For example, the towns in the
neighborhood of the sea, in the Maflachufetts'
Eay, uled to depend upon the filhery and com
merce, to import thein their wheat and flour
from Philadelphia, Maryland, and Virginia, and
rice from South-Carolina and Georgia : The
communication being interrupted by sea, since
the war, they have planted their own corn.
The caftern parts of the Maflachufetts' Bay,
before the war, depended on the commerce of
lumber for the Weft-India market, and of masts,
yards, and bowsprits, for the royal navy of Great
Britain, to procure them cloaths, meat, andftrong
liquors. Since the war, they have cultivated
their lands, raised their own corn, wool, flax ;
and planted the apple tree, instead of drinking
rum: In consequence of which they are more
temperate, wealthy, and independent than ever.
North-Carolina depended upon the commerce
of pitch, tar and turpentine, and tobacco, for
the importation of many things. Since the war,
they have turned their labor toraifemore of the
things which they wanted.
Maryland, Virginia, and North-Carolina, de
pended upon the trade oftobacco to import coarse
cloths for their negroes. Since the war, they
have raised less tobacco, and more wheat, wool,
and cotten, and made the coarse cloths themselves!
So that, upon the whole, the letlening of com
merce, and the increase of agriculture, has
rendered America more independent than lhe
ever was. I have the honor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
ANECDOTE.
LORD LYTTLETON, upon inviting his Son
to pass the evening with him, received for
answer, he was engaged to pass the evening with
ten or a dozen friends. Whereupon his Lordfliip,
grown old in the knowledge of the world, replied'
" 1 am to hear, George, yJiu are so very
fortunate. Having made the belt search I could
for three score years, I can hardly fay it has been
my fate to meet one friend; and you, it seems
find them already by dozens."
LONDON.
EXTRACTS.
i oni a POEM on the Bill lately pafled for regu
lating the Slave Trade.
By Miss HELEN MARIA WILLIAMS.
From the MONTHLY REVIEW, Jqr March, i 789.
j HE accounts lately given, fay the Reviewers,
to the public, refpot'ting the Slave Trade, were
horrid enough to call into vigorous exercise the
amiable feniihi.ity of the. female breast. By
ladies this subject lias been contemplated through
the pure medium of virtuous pity, unmixed with
rhofe political, commercial, felfiih considerations
which operated in (feeling the hearts of some
men againftihe pleadings of humanity ! To find
THEM, therefore,writing on i-.,by 110 means exci
ted wonder.—Though among the Ir.ft, Miss Wil
liams is not the least deserving notice. Ineafy,
harmonious verse die pours fourth the fentiinents
of her mind nor do we recollect among tlie
poems that have lately attracted our attention, to
haveperufed one with more pleasure than that
which now lies before us.
She thus addrefles her country on the fubjeift of
her poem :
13rITAJN! the noble, blest decree
That sooths despair, is fram'd by thee !
Thy powerful arm has interpos'd,
Ancl one dire scene forever clos'd ; %
Its horror fhali no more belong
To that foul drama, deep with wrong.
O, firftof EUROPE'S polifh'd lands,
To ease the captive's iron bands !
Long as thy glorious annals shine,
This proud diftin&ion (hall be thine :
Not firft alone when valor leads
To ru(h on danger's noblcft deeds :
When mercy calls thee to explore
A gloomy path untrod before,
Thy ardent spirit springs to heal !
And, greatly gen'rous, dares to feel !
Valor is like the meteor's light,
Whose partial flalh leaves deeper night;
While mercy, like the lunar ray,
Gilds the thick fhadc with fofter day.
Tlielaft lines of this extra# lead us to observe,
that our poetess is peculiarly happy in the choice
and application of her limilies :
The traders in Haves are described as beings,
Whose harden'd fouls no more retain
Impreflions nature ftamp'd in vain ;
All that diftinguilhes their kind,
For ever blotted from their mind ;
As dreams that once the landscape gave,
Refle&ed on the trembling wave,
Their substance change, when lock'd in froft,
And reft, in dead contraction loft ;
Who view unmov'd, the look, that tells
The pang that in the bosom dwells.
The picture that follows, of the wretched Ne
gro just landed in the Weft-Indies, and fold; is
extremely natural :
When borne at length to western lands,
Chain'd on the beach the captive stands,
Where man, dire mcichandize, is fold,
And barter'd life is paid for gold ;
In mute affliflion, fee him try
To read his new pofleffor's eye ;
If one blest glance of mercy there,
One half-form'd tear may check delpair !
What is said of avarice mull not be here omit,
ted :
His sway the harden'd bosom leads
To cruelty's remorseless deeds ;
Like the blue lightning -when it springs
With fury on its livid wings,
Darts to its goal with baleful force,
j Nor heeds that ruin marks itscourfe.
PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
ABSTRACT of JOURNAL of the first SESSION
of the SENATE oj the UNITED STATES.
O SATURDAY, July ,8.
N motion to ftrtkr out of line 13th these words, " To be ap
pointed by the said principal officer," passed in the negative
w .?.* r - to cx P u "B e 'lie proviso in lines 17th, 18th, and i 9 tb, to
si fj'PV'&dnti'trihelifi, Thatno appointment of fnch chief clerk
lhall be valid, until the lame shall h.ve been approved by the Pre
lident of the United States."
Upon the queßion, "Toconcur.n this bill as amended ?" and one
°! the Senators present requiring the yeas and nays, the deter
minatioi) was as follows:
Y EAS. Mr. Baffett, Mr. Carroll, Mr. Dalton, Mr. Ellfworth,
Mr Henr )'> Mr - Morris, Mr. Patterlon, Mr. Read,
* AYS ; Mr. Few, Mr. Grayfon, Mr. Gunn, Mr. Johnson,
e' Lan S do "> Mr. Lee, Mr. Maclay, Mr. Wingatc.
00 the bill was concurred with amendments.
a 11 MONDAY, July 2.0.
the day, proceeded to the second
reading of the bill, entitled, <• An ast to regulate the collection of
the duties imposed by law on the tonnage of {hips or vessels, and
on goods, wares and merchandize imported ",to the United States "
And after debate it was committed to Mr. Morris, Mr. Lanc
don, Mr Carroll. Mr. Dalton, and Mr. Lee. to report such ad
ditions and alterations as they may judge requifit ■
A the House of Rcprefenfcativts
Mr. President,
The House of Reprefcntatives have passed a bill, entitled "An
bu<w. r " h aUd f j PP °" ofll S h '-houfes, beacons, and
rh,S'n« T \ it VC COn , C ". rrCd in *' lc amendments proposed by !
the Senate ,0 a bill, entitled, '■ An ast for eflablifhing an Executive
Department to be denominated the Department of Foreign Af
fairs. And they have received from the President of ,1. r t
States an enrolled bill, entitled, « An a3 impo£ du t «
nage, with his f.gnature affixed thereto. Adjourned
T U E S D A Y, July SI
A message from the House of Representatives withwn
"An fto provide for
"O'th-weft o( the river Ohto j" * hich was read a fiiil time °
TL UM '!' DA Y, Jul V 23.
light fUPPOn °1
committed to Mr. Morns. Mr. La'ngdon, and Mr."Dalton™'
Onthe qucftion, whether the clauses in the bill, entitled " An
ast to regulate the collection of the dut.es imoofed hi I, u
.tonnage ot (hips or. vessels -id on <m.*> j 011
imported into the United Staus "nr i' raer ehandize
adminifteied to ot'her oei'fonfh . b{
command of anv fliiporvcftel " IhalU e rv * charge oj
« And the owner S T 'l deeb « pU ''t " " le words
5 A T t; R t A Y, Jul/
The honoiable Rufus King, from flie Stale of New-Y.
(sea«d, produced his credentials and took his feat" jnd u'" ''''
was adimiiiltercd to him according to law ' ' ' ,L oai "
M O N D A Y, July ?7 .
The honoi'able Philip Schuyler,froin'the State of New- York
pearcd, produced his credentials and took his feat; and th- '
was adininiftered to him according to law. ' "
Mr. Patterfon had leave of abfencefor (our da"*.
A melfage from the House of Representatives, with a hill
titled, •' An att for fettling the accounts between the United St™"
and individual States," for concurrence; and informed the S
that the President of the United States had affixed his
a bill, entitled, '• An ad for theeftablilhmentof an txccutiren"
partment, to be denominated the department of Foreign Ass "•
and had returned the fame to the House of Rcprefeutatives
The lirll mentioned bill was read a Srlt time.
Proceeded to the third reading of a bill, entitled, "Ana r >
regulate the collection of the duties imposed by law, o'n the ton" "
of Ihipsor vessels, and on goods, wares and merchandizes ,i,JS
into the United States^
And resolved that the Senate do concur therein with amend
ments.
TUESDAY, July 28.
Mr. Johnson, in behalf ol the committee appointed thetttliM
May, reported a bill, entitled," An ad for the puniihmt»tof ce»
tain crimes against the United States which was reads ftrft time'
The Secretary carried to the House of Representatives the bill'
entitled, " An ast to regulate the coition of the duties imposed
bylaw on the tonnage of ships or vessels, and on goods, waresand
merchandizes imported into the United States."
Oil motion, the Senators from the State of New-York pro
cecded to draw lots for their classes, in conformity to therefolieuf
the 14th of May : And two lots, No 3 and a blank, being by the
Secretary rolled up, and put into a box, Mr. Schuyler drew blink
and Mr. King having drawn No. 3, his feat Ihal'l accordingly be'
vacated in the Senate at the expiration of the sixth year. 3
The Secretary procended to put two other lots into the bo*
marked No. 1, and No. 2; and Mr. Schuvler having drawn lot
No. t, his l'eat shall accordingly be vacated in the Senate, at the
expiration of the fccond year.
A rncflage from the House of Representatives.
Mr. Prtfident,
The House ( f Representatives have confidrred the amendment
proposed by the Senate upon the bid, entitled, " Aft»fttort«uliK
the collection of the duties imposed by lawon the tonnageofftipi
or vessels, and on goods, wares and merchandize imported into tif
United States," and concurr* d therein, Adjoufned.
ADVERTISEMENT.
EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE OHIO COMPANY.
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Agents, it is very much
for the interell of the proprietors at large, that all the
lands of the purchase (hould be divided and allotted as immedi.
ately as may be—And in order to accommodate them generally,
by the option of they may think pjopcr, and drawing
their rights or shares (where they may polTefs more than one)
either together in contiguity, or by dctaching and annexing them
to diflipct clafTesor divisions (at their own ele£lion) to give them
the greater chance for variety in foil and fituation—ltisunani
moiifly refolved,That as foonas the exploring committee (hall hate
appropriated the lands for donation fettlemcnts.in quantity fuffici
ent for all the proprietors,W inthrop Sa r ge nt, Joseph Gil i
m an,.and Return J. Meics, Esquires, who are hereby appoint
ed a committee for that purpofe,fhall immediately makcout,upon
alarge fcale,a complete map or plan of the whole purchase from the
best information,which they may be then able to obtain,expreflin«;
all the lands of the eight acre, three acre, city lots aud common*,
one hundred and sixty acre, and donation lots, the relerved lots
of Congress, school lots, and lots appropriated for religious pur
poses—also, tne two townships given by Congress for an universi
ty,and the towns or situations tor towns to be reserved by the com
pany for a future allotment.—That, all the residuary lands ihail
be, by them, the said committee of thrc#, divided and numbered
upon paper, into forty equal'grand divisions of twenty-five shares
each,as like in quality as may be: That each grand division be
divided into five sub-divisions of five lhares each, and eachfub
divifion into fe&ions of single shares :—That as soon as the map
or plan is completed, the agents will form or class their fubTcrib
crs (who shall not pi evioufly class thcmfelves) by feftions or single
shares, into sub-divisions ot five, and grand divisions of twenty
five, and immediately proceed to drawing }>y lot for said lands;
by grand .divisions, sub-divisions 'and feftions : That in all
draughts of sub-divisions (into fe£Lions] which may be raaefcup ot:
proprietors,holding four,three, or two and single (hares,it shall be
the usage tor the greatest proprietor, or holder of the greatest
number of shares, to take his lands in contiguity, by lot, either in
the southern or northern part of the lub-divifion, where they.shall
be numbered from north to south, and in the western or e'aftern
(by lot also) where they may be numbered from weft to east; and
where sub-divisions maybe made up of two proprietors of two
shares each, and one of" one (hare, the two greatest proprie
tors shall receivetheir feftions, by lot, either in the fouthernor
western part of the sub-division. Re/olved, That the before na
med committee, be dire&ed to prepare the names and numbers,
and make all the necefTary arrangements for the intended draught:
That previous to the drawing for this ultimate grand division of
lands, there shall be returns of the proprietors, as they may be
clafled by the agents (or otherwise) lodged in the Secretary's office,
and it is recommended in all cases to donfulr the inclinations and
interests of the proprietors in the order of clafiing.
Rfjblvcd, That the agents will give public notice of the timeand
place of drawing, and that there be two perfonsno ways interest
ed in the draughts, who shall be sworn to the faithfully drawing
out the names and numbers from the boxes, and who alone shall
be employed in this business for the draught of grand divisions*
sub-divisions. and fe&ions.
Resolved, That the Secretary cause the foregoing refolations t#
be published in the newspapers of New-Yoik, and the New-
England States ; to the end that the proprietors at large may have
the option of clafiing themselves as they may think proper : And
they are hereby requeftcd so to do, and to express themselves
upon thisJubjea, cither to their refpeftive agents, or by informa
tion in writing addressed to, and to be lodged with the Secretary*
at his office in the city of Marietta,previous to the firftMonday o»
March, 1790 —Upon which day it is expetted the division wiU
take place. WINTHROP SARGENT,
Secretary to the Ohio ConfW'
Marietta, 3d November, J 789.
advertisement.
THE Gazette cf the United States circulates in every
the Union—being honored by fubferibers in Georgia, South anabiorti
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennjylvania, New-Jeff) >
New-} e»k, Connecticut, Rhode-lfland, Majfachufetts,
and DiJlriQ of Maine, Canada, Europe, Wefl Indus. This ex
ttnjive circulation renders it a proper vehicle Jor Advertisements
of a general, commercial and governmental import:—By the partus
dejire and advice, therejore, (>/ a number of its patrons, this
will be open for the reception of advertisements of the aboveJefcripM**
which as they will convey intelligence of an inter (fling nature, the '
tor hopes their insertion will meet the approbation of his friend l *
general. Should the number at any time amount to more than dp a s c 1,1
the Gazette, they will be given in a Supplement. f£V\ r O
New-York, Nov. 28, 1789.
Publi/lied by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden';
L*NE, NEW-York.— P r