PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 4 t, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 27, of Vol. 11. j
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
(Omitted in ottrlcjl for want of mom.)
Extract of a letter from ALi[l'jchuJ' Iti, June 30.
" "\7"OU will douhtlefs be informed, if yoi
X do not fee the News Papers from thi
quarter, that the demon of discord is exceeding
]y bufyat this time ; the proceedings of oar Na
tional Legislature, being faulted by many impa
tient persons, gives occasion to a few candidates
for public noticc, to traduce the general govern
ment in a way that indicates what fort of materi-
als the fcriblers arc composed of.—My reliance
is on the firmnefs, diiintereltednefs and patriot
ifni of a majority of Congreli. When I was at
New-York, similar remarks to those published in
the papers, were often made l>y persons whom I
found either unfriendly to the or
destitute of a proper idea of a free constitution.
—I remember particularly being one day in the
gallery, a member rose at the close of a debate
which had been continued through the whole
forenoon, and made afpeech of about 10 minutes
length—l thought very much to the purpose ;
but a man who lat next ine, appeared to be» in a
perfecft agony of impatience—and expreiled him
-I'cH in such a manner as convinced ine that if he
could have had his will, the member would have
been precluded from offering his fentimeuts on
the fabje<fl.—l just observed, " that ina free af
lembly every member had arighttogive his opi
nion ; and if controuled as to the time, or mode
speaking, there was an end to all freedom of
debate." i tell some of my unealy friends that
• "\patience mufi have iis pujefl "work."—that how
ever, there is oneway of lhortcning the ieflionsof
Congress, and presenting long speeches, which
the people can adopt, ana but one—and that is to
change the government from a free republic to a
dtfptufni—but would this be an alteration for
the better ? The Legiflaturc of the Unired States
is composed of cbaratilers, feletfted from the peo
preTrrrb "as much coolness, and freedom from
party influence, as any that will perhaps ever be
chosen. According to all the oblervations that
I have been able to make here, from the print
ed accounts, or from being an eye-witness, there
is an evident folicitudc to promote the general
interest of the Union—but every man knows,
who knows any thing, that it is in the power of
one or two individuals in a free aflsmbly, to
protract and embarral's their proceedings —it is
also to be considered that Congress have as it
were but a " choice ot difficulties"—and their
-ficuation is different perhaps from that of any
Legislature that ever existed before. A ftrflion
in the politicaL liiltory of America, even of a
.year, is but a point of time , and if the relult ol
. Congreilioiial deliberations atthis important peri
od, Ihould be a judicious fyilein of finance, what
ever may be the present sentiment, posterity will
beflow ajuft tribute of applause on their decilions.
We regret very much that it is thought necef
fury to bring forward the subject of residence
again—and fouie people talk very strangely ;
however, it to be considered that this and
every other qucftion can be introduced at the
pleai'ure of one or two members, and much more
so at the iuftance of a whole State i and there
tore to fay that such things lhall not be, is to fay,
we will not fubmitto a free government. I wilh
the business was once fairly fettled, that all fcon
teft 011 the fubje<sl may be at ah end. I have of
ten refiet r ted on the observation of a gentleman
who had had long-experience of human nature,
in public life—the new Constitution," said he,
nppfcais to tie agreeable in theory—the people
are greatly elated at the profpedl which presents
JlfeU to their imagination—but a Constitution is
«,nt thing, niitl the administration of it is another ;
those who will be ele<fted into public office will
a trying time—and it will be well if . the
Constitution »s not made to share the blame with
the administration, of all the real or imaginary
cvjls that weakness, credulity or wickedness may
conjure up»"—l observed in reply, that all that
xould be done was to wait the event—acknow
ledging at the fame time—" that it was yet to be
JeUnnVned, whether any given number of the human
race could be found, who poffejfed huifdom and ft If de
nial adequate to supporting a government of their
OWN INSTITUTING
ANtCD O T t.
JTbeine told Asticokus, in order to intimidate him as he
marrhed To rtie field of battle, that the enemy wouM (hoot
such arrows, as would intercept the light Oi the Sun.--
«' lam K lad ofii." replied lit, " lor it being very hot, we (hall
• t hen in the fa&iU "
WEDNESDAY, JULT 14, 1790.
CONGAKSS.
HOUSE OF REPRLSEN TA 1 IVES.
TUESDAY, JULY 6.
Sketch of the Debate, in Committee of the -whole, on
the RESIDENCE DILL.
MR. SHERMAN : A3 this bill refpe&s the
permanent refideuce of the government,
which is an important fubjecft—it ought to be a
matterof enquiry, Whether the place proposed is
the real centre of population and territory or not.
He thought that it was too far southward. He
moved therefore that the Potowmac {hould be
(truck out, and a diftritft to include the town of
Baltimore, beinferted.
Mr. Burke seconded this motion
Mr. Lee deftred the gei tleman to inforrri the
committee where he mean; the temporary refi
denee (hould be, provided liis motion fhonld ob
tain.
Mr. Sherman said, he ha 1 no obje<stion to mak- ]
ing Philadelphia thetempofary refidenee, as fuon
as it was convenient.—He jhen mentioned sever
al particulars which would l eader it inconvenient
to go there at present.
Mr. Huntington said, thit the only reason for
removing, which lie had e«er heard, is, that this
place is not so central. If there is any force in
the reasoning, he wilhed not to »o to a place less
central. He adverted to&e mode of conveyance
ro this placc, generally adopted by members to
g*et to the feat of government. He supposed that
ihe prefeut centre was so „.e where between Phi
ladelphia and Baltimoie trut tlieplace contem
plated is very much removed from the centre,
more than miles Weft. With refpeft tocen-
trality, he said that it is not an idea which pre
dominates iu regard to any other country, of
which lie knew any thing refpecfting the geogra
phy —other and various important considerations
operated in fixing the feat of government.
Mr. White observed, that if this house was
alone to be consulted, 011 the principle of accom
modation, Baltimore might answer—but when it
is considered that this bill originated in the other
house, who have an equal voice with usin deter
mining the quellion—and in which this place has
been repeatedly rejected, it is evident, that if the
clause is struck out, the bill will be loft. He then
controverted the calculations of the gentleman
lalt fpeakinjr, and stated the difference of travel
between the Southern and Northern difhinces,
which he made to be 4$ 10 1 ; but he said that so
far as rcfpected himfelf, he fliould make no dif
ficulty on that account ; but the accommodation
of the Citizens who may have bufinefsat the feat
of Government is a consideration of very great
importance —with refpeit to the excentric situa
tion of the feat of Government in other countries';
this arose from themere whims df the sovereigns
ot tliofe Kingdoms ; but modern policy has obli
ged the people of European countries, (I refer
particularly to Great Britain) to fix the fear of
Tovernment, near the centre of trade—it is the
commercial importance of the city of London,
which makes it the feat of government —and what
is the consequence ? Loudon and Westminster,
though they united fend only 6 members to parlia
ment, have a greater influence on the measures
of government, than the whole empire besides.
This is a situation >11 which we do not wifli ever
to fee this country placed. He concluded by
observing, that if this amendment is agreed to,
the bill will be loft, and we fliall be without ei
ther a temporary or permanent reftdence.
Mr. Lee, after a few introductory observations
entered into a consideration of the relative in
terells of the southern, middle and northern
States. He interspersed a variety of reflections,
tending to conciliate and blend those different
inrereits and to dillcininaie the sentiments of
union and concord. He alluded particularly to
the great objetft of funding the debts of the Uni
ted States —the feat ot government will concen
trate the public paper—hence he inferred the
neceflity of a situation from whence all parts of
the Union, may be equally benefitted—From these
confideratipns he deduced the neceflity of placing
521
the government in a central fitua'rion. He ob
served that vvlnle the present poliiiou continued
to be the feat or government, the agriculiure of
the States to the eastward is invigorated and en
couraged, while that tothe Southward is Linguifli
ing and expiring. He then ihewed the f;ifal ten
dency of this preponderating encouragement to
tliofe parts of the country, already considered as
the ftrongell parts of the Union—and from the
natural operation of these principles, heinfen ed,
that the interefl of the Southern States niuftbo '
eventually swallowed up. The deeifion of ihe
Senate, said he, affords a most favorable oppor
tunity to tnanifeft that niagnanifnity of foul*
which lhall embrace, upon nn extenlive liberal
system, the belt interefl of the great whole.—
This cannot be done- while the present unequal
situation of the feat of the government of the U -
nited States, continues.—Nations have their pas
sions as well as individuals. He drew aii alarm
ing picture of the confeq renews to be apprehen
did from difilnion, anlbition and rival (hi p.—lie
then gave a pleasing Iketth of the happy effeifts
to be derived from a national, generous, and e
qual attention tothe southern a.id northern in
terests. Will gentlemen said he blnft this prof
peift by rejecting the bill ? I trust they will »or.
He then entered into the merits of the ques
tion.— The States of Delaware, Philadelphia,
Maryland and Virginia, which contribute more
than one half to the revenue, and which have
the only rival claim to the permanent feat of gtj
[ vernment are fatisfied with the arrangement in
the bill : That Philadelphia faitlhe, is thenearefl
centre of the present wealth and population of the
United States, thegentlemen ofNew-York them
selves will confefs ; the Potowniac will become
the nearcft centre for a permanent refidencepro •
bably by the period proposed—to oppose this
therefore will be ailing from merely local mo-
,ives.
The gentleman moves to insert Baltimore-
Mr. Lee in lilted that Baltimore is as far Touth as
the place proposed—besides being exposed by
its frontier polition on the lea ; we are not con
fined said he to a particular spot on the Potow
inac ; we may fix 011 a place as far north as the
gentleman from Connecticut wiflies ; 1 consider
the motion therefore calculated to destroy the
bill, and ought to be opposed by every one who
is in favor of a Southern situation.
This State has 110 pretentions to the perma
nent residence—it is true the citizens of this
place have put themselves to great expence to
accommodate the government, and are entitled to
much praise for their exertions—but he wilhed
to take up the subject on national ground, and
to have it decided on principles which apply to
the best interests of the whole. He then refer
red to a map of the Potowmac and the adjacent
country which lay 011 the table, and Which had
been sent from the executive of the State of Vir
ginia—he referred also to other papers and do
cuments.
Mr. Burke said he wished that the whole buii-
tiefs of the temporary and permanent residence
might now be fettled.—He exculpated the mem
bers, who are in favor of Baltimore from all de
sign to defeat the present bill. He referred to
some observations which had been made on the
conduct; of the members of the States, south of
Virginia, and said that they had consulted
interest of the v/hole. One reason why he was
in favor of the motion was because he preferred
Baltimore to Conocogeque. He a popu
lous city better than building a palace in the
woods. Another reason was that there was 110 po
litical neceflity existed for removing the Govern
ment from New York to Philadelphia. He said
thattlie measure would excite the most turbulent
paflions in the minds of the citizens. It is unjust
to the people of the city to remove from this
place said he, till the expenccthey have incurred
is repaid thein. It is a breach of honesty and of
justice. It is injustice to the state ! Tothewhole
nation. He entered into a consideration of their
facrifices and services. He thought it a very ex
traordinary measure indeed. It is calculated
said he to arrest the funding fyilem—and to
throw every thing into confufioit. If the bill is
passed in its present torm, Congress will never
leave Philadelphia ; for the coinmillioners to be
appointed will incur no penalty for a neglect of
doing their duty—this is a most efiential defect,
said he, 111 the bill, and there are other defects
in it. He spoke in handsome terms of the Star j
of Pennfvlvania—he said lie ha*l as high an xt "...
[Whoie No. 131.3nioii of that State, as any man whatever, but he
was afraid of their influence ; and thatftate was
the last in which he would ever consent the per.
nianent feat of 'government should be. He then
adverted to the influence of the members from
that State, who by their political management
had, he said, raised a-ftorrnt in the United States.
Here Mr. Burke was called to order—after a
short interruption he proceeded, and said a quak
er Hate was a bad neighbourhood for the South-
Carolinians—here he adverted to the quaker bu
iinefs lall winter. He obje&ed to Philadelphia
also, oh account <rf there being no gallery in the
house proposed for the accommodation of Con
gress—an open gallery he considered as a very
important check to the Legifllature.
Mr. Lawrance.—The gentleman from Virginia
has observed that the object of the amcndmentis
to defeat the bill—he has also mentioned the
States which are most particularly interested in
the queltion. Mr. Lawrance laid the State of
!New-York might have been considered. He wiilied
the motion might succeed, because he thought
that it would conduce to the peace of the Union.
He obje&ed to the place proposed for the perma
nent residence ; by the bill it is conceded that the
place is not, at present, a suitable position—by
what magic can it be made to appear it will be
more proper at the end of ten years !—What
reason can be given why those parts of the Uni
on should not populate, which are at a diltance
from the Potowmac, in proportion to those parts
in the vicinity of that place. I presume none
can be afligned ! Why then is a period of ten
years to elope, previous to going there ? The
reason is plain—the people would not nowconfent
to have the government dragged to so remote a
part of the United States—He then adverted to
the funding business, and other important mat
ters which remain to be decided on, and very
strongly intimated that these quertions were to
be determined ag eeable to the fate of this bill.
He fbewetl from a vaHety of particulars,
that Philadelphia would become the permanent
residence.
He then adverted particularly to the several
parts of the bill.— The firft was refpeifting the
place where it is proposed to eredt the public
buildings ; he laid they could not be erected
tvithin the time mentioned, and lhewed the vari
ous difficulties which would attend the whole
buiinefs. He then Hated the advantages of Bal
tiinore, and faidthat that place would have ob
tained in Senate, if the Maryland Senators would
have voted for it. He concluded by observing,
that as no neceflity exilts for removing the tern
pnrary residence, lie hoped that Cong.efs would
fct down contented where they are.
Mr. Bloodworth observed, that as the fuuding
bill, had been alluded to, he could wilh that the
objection from that quarter might be taken ou;
of the way, he moved that the committee (hould
rife, in order to take up the Ways and Means.
Mr. Smith, (M.) introduced an address from
the inhabitants of Baltimore, to the Members and
Senators from that State, which Was read. This
contained an account of the number of houses
and inhabitants of that town, &c. alio, the ac
commodations already made, and the provision to
be made tocompleat every wecefl'aiy arrangement.
Mr. Carroll mentioned to the commitiee that
there was a memorial of the inhabitants of
George-Town, on Potowmac.on the table—whicli
he had presented some days since , and fubmirted
it to the lioufe whether it would be proper to
read it.—lt was read.
Mr. Lee uioved that certain papers received
from the executive of Virginia, should be read
■which was done.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) called for the reading of a
report of a committee appointed by the old Con
gress, to view the banks of the Potowmac—which
was done.
Mr. Stone.—All we feemto differ about,is whe
ther Baltimore or Potowmac /ball be the feat of the
government; and if this was all, the delegates ot
that State might fold their arms and set down
contented—but the flare of Maryland has been
placed in the situation of Tantalus. He then lta
terl how the gentleman had formerly, finally vo
ted, who now appear in favor of Baltimore—had
the bill comedown from the Senate with Balti
more inserted, inltead of Potowmac, he should
have had no difficulty in determining how toadi
.—but he conceived that if the amendment now
proposed should take place, nothing would be
done—and the business will be left in a very in
auspicious ftate—from this and other considera
tions, he was resolved not to be drawn off from
his present dete'mmation,by any motion, amend
ment, or modification of the bill whatever.
With refpedl to liimfelf, he had no election be
tween the town of Baltimore and the Potowmac ;
yet is a Marylander, he would, if he saw a prof
| cR of success, vote for the town of Baltimore ;
hut as it refpe<fied the United States, he should
- ote for potowmac—and on this idea he was wil
Jing to make some facrifices. He considered the
fcihje<st as one of the mofl painful and difagreea-
We that could be agitated, and he wiflied to have
r .hc business finally and unalterably fixecl.
Mr. Seney also considered this as an unhappy
question to come before the hoUfc at this time.
The ttate of Maryland was as much divided ou
the fubjeiftas the United State# appeared to be ; a
great rivalfliip fublifts between the Potowmac
and Sufquehannah rivers ; and he doubted not
but"thit vfrlien tlifc qutftion was ultimately deci-"
ded, it would be either on the one or the other
of those rivers. He agreed with Mr. Lee, that
Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia were the
only states who could'make any reasonable pre
tentions to be the l'eat of government—but a ma
jority of voices from these States had been agjainft
the Potowmac. Pennfylvaaia and Maryland he
observed, had given the preference to the Sufque
hannah. Mr. Seney-then noticed some tranlac
tions of the legiilature of Maryland, Which he
said clearly evinced their detexmination to sup
port the pretentions of the Sufquehannah. Mary
land certainly had an equal right with Pennsyl
vania and Virginia,to have her interests consulted.
The interests of Maryland, it appeared,
now to be facrificed t® those two adjoining States.
And howeveiflau&iiiigit may seem, to Maryland,
to fix the feat of rnrfient on her fide of the
Pstowinac, the ;-eal advantages were in a great
measure nugatory, as it would be but a very small
portion of that State that could reap any benefit
therefrom—the real advantages would undoubt
enly result to Pennlylvania and Virginia.— It ap
peared somewhat extraordinary lohim, that gen
tlemen should be willing to confine the residence
to a particular fptot, previous to their removing
to a permanent residence. Why is it neceflary
to fix upon Philadelphia for ten years ?—Surely
this is putting the government in a very ineligi
ble tituation, for it is by no means improbable
that many ferisus and important occurrences
might render a removal highly expedient perhaps
unavoidable. Betides, after the government
shall have' remained ten years in Philadelphia,
the probability of quirting it for the Potowmac,
appeared to be very flight indeed. For though
it was tinderftood by the bill that the offices were
to be removed tothe Potowmac, yet if a majority
in either houl'e were opposed to going there,
Congress would remain at Philadelphia, and they
would be obliged to repeal the bill from necel"-
fiiy.
Mr. Scot faidhefhould not notice many things
which hail been offered on the fubje<ft,he would on
ly obferve,that from the town ofßaltimore there is
110 water conveyance to the interior country
—but from the proposed place on the Potowmac,
there are 200 miles navigation directly into the
heart of the country—Nor is Baltimore more
northerly than the jjofition contemplated.—A
connection with the Weft ern country is of the
tumult ccnfequence to the peace and union of
the United States, let the gentlemen from thefea
coast fay what they will.
Mr. Madison : (n order to decide this question
rightly, we ought to compare the advantages and
disadvantages of the two places as they relate to
the good of the United States. Now,l will defy
any gentleman, however sanguine lis may be
with refpedi to Baltimore, to point out any fub
ftaiuial advantage that is not common to the Po
towmac—and 1-defythem to disprove, that there
are not several important advantages belonging
to tlie PoLowmac, which do not appertain to
Baltimore. The committee have had ample in
formation with refpeift to the northern and south
ern portions of the two places. Inpoint offalu
brity of air, without dilparagmg the pretensions
of Baltimore, the Potowmac is at least equally fa
vored in that refpeOt. In regard to centrality of
si. uation, I'otowmac has undoubtedly the advan
tage—in refpe(fl to security from invasion, I aver
the Potowmac has the advantage also—with rela
tion co the western country there is not a shadow
of coinparifon. If we should go as far South as
Baltimore, why not an equal diltancc south weft
to the Potowmac ?—Thofe who are acquainted
; with the country on the Potowmac, and that in
the neighborhood of Baltimore, do not heinate
to give the preference to the Potowmac It is
true that Baltimore has refpertable resources—
her rapid growth is a dear proof of it—but look
at the resources of the Fptowmac—the great range
of rich country that bonders on it, and fee if there
are not advantages thatmuft in a short time pro
duce a commercial town. Sir, a period might be
named, not exceeding ten years, within which
the town of Baltimore obtained the greater part
ot ttsmcreafe and consequence ; a period of ten
years w,ill produce the fame effects on the Potow
mac because the fame causes exilt ; and when
l\-peradded to this the residence of government
<hall be there, there can be no doubt but that
desired eery accommodation that can be
It is laid that before the ten years expire a re
peal of the may take place, and thus Congreis
be kept at Ph.ladelphia. But what more can we
do than pass a law for the pnrpofe ? It i s n o f i,i
our power to guard agajnft a repeal-oar a<fts are
not like those of the, Aledcs and Persians unal
terable. A repeal is a thing against which no
prov.fion cail be m , de . rfthat \ an obieftio no
u holds good against anylw that can bepafTed!
522
If cliufe states that may have a fupeiiority JnC
grefs at a future day, will pay no 'refpeet to th*
aifts of their predccellbrs or to the public n 0 ,i
there 'is 110 power to compel them. ° '
But, I flatter inyfelf that some will 1 m
paid to the public interest, and to the plin],ted
faith of the government. As to centrality t),
he it evidence we have at this time in favor oftle
Potowmac, is the different travel of the
and this, Sir, proves incOnteftibly that the u r '
posed place 011 the Potowmac is near the centre
If any arguments could be brought againlt it it
is its being too far to the northward. For the
mileage south of the Potowmack is 12782 mile"
to the north of it 12422. If to this Rh«de.Jfl an( j
be added, it will not be more than equal. [f'thg
bill once pafles, I am not under any apprehenii.
ons of a repeal ; but if danger of a repeal dots
exist ; it is of that kind againlt which we cannot
guard. Sir, we (hould calculate on accepting
the bill as it now stands ; we ought not to riikjf
by making any amendment. We have it now in
our power, to procure afouthern position. The
opportunity may not again speedily pref'entitf If
We know the various and jealous iiiterefts ttiat
exist 011 this fubjec r t. We ihould hazard nothing,
If Potowmac is struck out, are »ou sure of ret
ting Baltimore ? May 110 other places be propo
ted > Instead of Baltimore is it not probable wi
may have Suftjuehaimah inserted, perhaps th
Delaware ? Make any amendment, Sir, and thi
bill will go back to the Senate. Are wefuretha
it will come back into our pofleflion aoain ? B<
amending, we give up a certainty for an uncer
tainty. In my opinion, we (hall adt wifely, jf W(
aceept the bill as it now stands, and I beg Jeavi
Lo press it on gentlemen not to consent to any al
teration left it be wholly defeated, and the pro!
peift t)f obtaining a foutliern position vanifi so
ever.
Mr. Gerry said he rose with greater reluc
ance on this, than he ever did on any foune
iccafion ; and it is because it appears pretty evi
lent the advocates of the bi'l are sure of a niajori
y,and .ire determined not to change their mind;
et what arguments will be offered on the sub
ert—the business of elhiblifhing the permanent
efidence ii contrary to the sentiments of a ma.
oriry of the members of this House—and of the
Senate as they have both negatived a bill for this
vn-pofe the prelem feflion ; it is to be regretted
hat ir has ever been brought forward,for i: isve.
y evident that it has had a very pernicious in.
Jticnce on the great business of funding the pub.
ic debt. He then mentioned the former remo.
>'aliof Congress, which had never bp£a com
plained of—as the public business was never neg
lected :—He said that if the present bill is car
ried into execution, a very great uneafinefswill
?nfue—for the msafures of Congress, and nottheir
re.ldence a e the objects of concern to the peo
—Thofe States who think that they in all be
njured, it can not be expected will acquiesce ; he
hen gave an account of the pi ocefs of this mca
ure the last feflion. The travel, said he, hasbeei*
mentioned—This he said could not be considered
is an argument in favor of the bill.lor the expellee
s not paid by particular States—it conies out of
he common treasury. He aflerted that the ac
eflibilityto New York is better than that to the
J otowmac.—He contended the rifle by land is
greater than that by water. He Hated the ad
vantages that the southern members derived from
:oming to the northward, while on the other hand
is there, said he, any thing to balance the rifle and
difficulties which the northern members must en
:ounter in such a southern situation. He said it
was highly unreasonable to fix the feat of
nentinfuch a position as to haStates out
as thirteen, to the northward of the place. —He
idvertcd to the facrifices which the northern States
ire ready to make in being willing to go so far
Touth as Baltimore. He contended that the ex
plicit consent of the eastern States ought to beob>
ained before they are draggedftill farther foutli-
He ridiculed the idea of fixing the governmentat
He did not think there was any
erious intention of ever going to this Indian
~le considered the whole business as a nieer ma
rneuvre. Baltimore holds out the only profpeit
)f a permanent feat ®f government. —He recapi
tulated the account which before had been given.
f 1 i om this he adverted to the general expectation
if the public with refpetft to the government's
arrying here till the permanent feat was eftab.
ithed—He particularized the expences that had
jeen incurred by the citizens, aad for which they
Merited great honor.—He said it had been pro
nifecl to New.York, tha this place should be the
emporary residence of Congress, and on this en
gagement they came into an unconditional adop
ion of the conflitution—Should this bill pass.
what can ii be denominated bui a delusion, a de-.
eption, faniflionecl by Congress itfelf. He re
narked on the several observations offered by Mr.
Vladifen, Mr. Lee, Mr. Stone, and Mr. Scott.
Mr. V ining— When I find arguments made life
>1 lo inflame the minds of gentlemen against the
"embers of this house, I think it my duty te notice
such observations : Attempts are made to hold
U P, in an odious poitjt of light, the members cic,
•811
t0 the
good,
Pennsylvania. sir, it is a fa<ft, which your iour
lials wi.ljuftify, that the members from Pennfyl
vama voted the last feflion agaioft Philadelphia.
I*7 a at " one observations will have
'j , influence on the inind of one single indi
j > are lent here to d ° the public bufinels
and I trull that our constituents, have not lent men
that are to be deterred from doing their duty by
lucn mftdious insinuations, such ill-founded fue
geftions of deceiving and deluding the citizens of
this place.
»
Mr. Vining added some more ftritfures on Mr
Oerry s observations, and then entered largely in
to the merits of the question. He supported the
till on general principles, and noticed the several
jbjedhons that had been made by different mem-
£ ei ; s - H e>n ,p uted the.embarrafimems of the p U b-
mpCioU ' and " 0t C ° the sub '
Mr. Clymer made afew remarks on tlieobferva
tions of Mr- Burke, which were not diftintflly
heard by the Editor. »'«iy
The committee rose and reported progress.
SATURDAY JULY 10.
The house took into consideration the amend,
inents proposed by the Senate to the following
bills viz n,e bill to regulate trade and inter
course with the Indian tribes—The bill to pro
irie for the regulation and government of Tea-
IT'', 1 " r,e ,ner chants' service—And the bill to
eftablilbthe Port-Office, and Port-Roads in the
lilted Stares. To some of the amendments the
house agreed—and dtfagreed to others—so thai
none of the bills were completed. The fiilt -i
mendmeni to the Port-Office bill, by which the
Senate proposed that the ertablifhment of cross
roads should be left to the Port-Marter-General
under d,rec<t,on ofthe President of the United
S was re J the discussion of the other
amendments took up the time till the adjourn-
MONDAY, JULY 12.
Sundry petitions were read and committed.
~ p ®~ rion from the Clerks in the offices of the
Commissioners on Accounts, and the Pay-Matter-
Oeneral, praying to be put on a footing in res-
P to then-salaries, with the Clerks in the De
partmentsof the Secretary of State, Secretary at
War, and Secretary of the Treafurj , was read,
and teferred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
An amendment of the Senate to the bill tore
gulate trade &intercourse with the Indian tribes,
by which they propose that the 4th fettion should
beltruck our, was taken into confiderarion—this
leetmn afipmpriares j 0000 dollars, to be aPDlied
in purchasing neceflftries, and presents, under the
-f .k. PuWto.-.
ma.
f die
chik
I- *
This amendment was disagreed to.
In committee of the whole—on the bill to re
gs ate the collection of the duties on goods, wares
j , erchandlze > ,Jn P m ' e <l into the United States,
an< i'be tosnage 011 ft'l's and veflels. Thedif
cullion of this bill employed the committe till near
the time of adjournment—Sundry amendments
were agreed to, and ordered to be reported to
flie House tomorrow.
A meflage was received from the Senate, in
forming the house that they recede from their a
niendment to ilie bill for the regulation and go
vernment of feameii in the Merchants'fervice,
to wh.ch ilie house had difigreed-and that they
adheie to their amendment to the bill to rcgu-
Jate trade andl intercourse with the Indian tribes.
i• « ,on their ai »cndments to the Polt-
Omce bill, and request a conference on the sub.
Mr. Gilmali informed the house that the joint
comnutree h*d examined two enrolled hills, and
found them correct : The bill to eftablife the
temporary and permanent feat of the government
of the Umted States—And the bill, making fur
ther for the invalid pensioners of the
United States.
TUESDAY, JULY i 3.
Alport of the Secretary of Stan on coins, weight, and mra
\lr C ,° mn l Un ' r J a,cd b y ,he f P" kcr ' aml on ol
Mr Sedgwtct ordered to be printed for the ufc of the Houf
Of McOVs. Getry, Steele, H it tlcy, Vin
ng and Burke was appointed, to confer with the committee of
port ffi b°u dlfa S rccmenl of the two houses in relpert to the
Stna * e having infilled on their amendment to the bill, «to
gulate trade and inlercourfe with the Indi, n tribes" 11 wn
ved that the House Ihould recede from their difagreemcm.
Ms motion after some debate was negatived—27 to 24.
A committee confiding of Mcffrs. Madison, Sedgwick, and
y? 0 "' w «« appointed to confer with the Senate on the fubieft of
•"'agreement. J
tl,. M ) r 'i F " l /'! non 3 ' c P or,c d a bill making further provision for
e U of the United States, which was read the firft time,
r. Smith moved for leave to bring in abill rcfpedline the oef
on°f Light-Houses, &c. to the United States—motion laid o
•■•c tabjr.
t'S
ib.
id >
ou^# to °k 'nto consideration the amendments to the new
<' it on law* the principal part of which was accepted ; o
• '• r 3mtndments wtre agreed to, and the bill being gon through
k was ordered that it be enzro fled for a third reading on
utfday next. 6
U ' rT,Cn d*nents propnfed by the Senate to the bill providing
' u i i t foment of accounts between tic United States and in
' 'dual ..(ates vveic ntxt laken up.
t hi R amendment wa-, to strike out the two additional com
lJ7 ,i :r o,fd4, y * c M r - Foster proposed that the
« lniild ,o«M,r with the Senate ; this motion occafioncd a
r ; Uv. a* finally rejr£ted.— The House then adjourned.
TRANSLATED
ra£ ga zette of the united states.
FRO M THE LETDEN GAZETTE.
Publffhed by Stephin Luzac.
[A Pap er that is con fide red in Europe aschtrtoft
ciiuSes Z ofi " t^,i g e n«^a Il d asfuch
CONTINUED.
PARIS AC COUNT S. March 8
T"L^"of n MSa a y ndS t S ° f the
h at?
Gentlemen,
area»«
luftrag„ ,„ my , avor „ „ 1C d(Uee wk J h wu , fr \ ni Your
gSf-pSSa
have ~,ff »i a ' impose, gentlemen, great duties on me ]
is In addiri Y rCiU ™'""! ,1< - bcfore m <- ; this example however
:£r me to - f °" c,t »■»■*■<*. j
in F™„™ tt°r °rl) hf 7 th R ? arch - thr of a Belgie Envoy
him The or.nr' l f' u' W " r ' cr ° lvcd n,H <° acknowledge
blv to thi,£ rlncl P le rfafon which appears to have led theAffm
the Belric Conffri? ,0 »V "i "'n^VV ;hc P refcm Confti,wi£" f
theexpreflion of the national will, i« at knowlcdecd X '
of E ? ,en " e >.\ hlf J* h °f March, on the fubjeft
with the .nod e'xp'rt fnve ma rks^of'a^robation—^h'e^fo*[ rCCe ' v^ '
3 "'" t"' Wh ' Ch WJS /7A/ OrC P ' lrtlcularl y »PPl»uded!
irixm uptOy gentlemen, is unbofhble I rrncaf it ~ • «. m,
it the A,r ti 'I'vjjwit- i repeat it, it js imtofhble,
ii uic jvationa] Aiicmhly continues its labort for Com . ~ J i
"zul" w v ,the Ai^ki v£"^7S:
s i leave yon and the people of Trance every thino to think
srjssfissar 7 _*^-issw
privileged, h „, F EkS.
n i. *• constitution can promifit ' °
apScS3^IKS«?
be unala'med ' Whu i f... Y , can country
rifl.es and peoples, beyond and'we"^"°T
u'dZlu a » d f° r >> per annum; because we "re
p:tt c^ir k cdu; y o";cal our br:;r s ,n !r u(c rr cn^
Bankruptcy ts impoflible gentlemen, becau* the neoolr nf
t'«»nce, must riot, nor cannot pcrifh : because a banlcnmtr "
° nt y fc ' ve tllc P ur P°fcs of a small number of atrocious fouls w^o
f»tTto,V\- C)o,Ceat L h \ ProfpCaof " ,in: be " use » would be
tal to the King, to the State, to the person who lives upon hi.
creditor wh7 P "who takes up money at interest, to every
'he fcffilTm 0 Ci ' P ' t ' totl,e P rovi "ces, and even to
man, the avaricious and the timid who heap ud and
locklup their gold. It I, irnpoffible, because at the moment of
, 3 J. Z C 1""l pc " lh ' y° u would fee a croud of good citi
s, with whu h this city abounds, accumulating offers and faeri
es, and running to the altar of their country, to effect by one"
moment, courage, everything that may now be accompliftedby
continued prudence \ou have seen the facrifices they know how
o make. Do you doubt they would not prefsforward to concur
b) the r generosity.to imitate the examples which two diftrift,
have already set them, to follow the lessons which the wife patn
otifm of the Commons dictates to them ?
(To be continued.)
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA. No. XIV.
Trs with our judgments as our watches—none
GojuJi alike, yet each believes his ■own.
A IL the miracles enumerated in our Hit number, must be per-
LVrA b J cf ""'lld'ft'n«'»..s<'.an be annihilated,
ana ciltincxions in abundance would be found, after all for
French gentlemen, in the history of England, Hoi,and, Spain,
Uermany, Italy, America, and all other countries on the globe.
i he wi' Jnm ot nations has remarked the univcrlal conlidcraiion
pjid t ■ wealth ; anil that the paflionof avarice, excited by it. pro
duced treachery, cowardice, and a felfifl, unsocial meanness, but
had no tendency to produce those virtues of patience, courage
fortitude, honor, or patriotism, which the I'ervice of the pub. ic re
quired in iheir cit lent, in peace and war.
The wifdoiti ot nations has observed, that the general attention
paid to bnth, produced a diffeicnt kind of sentiments ; those ot a
pride in the maxims and principles in religion, morals and go
vernment, as well as in ihe talents and virtues which firft produ
ced illuftrarion to ancestors.
As the pride of wealth produced nothing but meanness of fen
tim. Nt, and a fordid scramble for monev ; and the pride of birth
produced forne degree of emulation in knowledge and virtue
tie wisdom of nations has endea ored to employ one prejudice
O counter.,ftanothrr ; the prejudice in fivor of birth, to modet
lte, corrr*tt, and icffrain the prejudice in favor of wealth.
The National Aflcmblv of F, ance is too enlightened a body to
iverlook the enquiry, What effefk on tile moral chj.rafter of the
ation would be pioduced, by destroying, if that were possible,
11 attention to families, and all the paflions on the pursuit'
>' gain. Whether nniverfal venality, and an incorrigible corrup
tion hi elections would not be the neccflary consequence. It may
oc relied on. however, that the int ntions of that aunnft and magi
luminous affrmbly, arc mifunderfl .od and mifrepiefented. Time
will develop- ttieir do(i~n», will fh.w them to be more judicious
523
t dZ^r poflsbilitlt ' f ° ° bviousi ss that ° f the aboiiti <">
h,ra LI ' HO |- N j !U 1 thc tent,1 > the aftronortiitai king of Castile has
t&fi^txssbss&S
' " ° r damcd that every man Ihall have a difpolitio'n lo
inR 1 y llaslm "« l on,a, l d conf;quent!y a for dif
tunuie"-f and , th r at •»."«« 0"" »<* have equal LaL and Zpot
capable of ff I "• Shjll «t belie-'-e thc National AIT m'oly
sstftasß*
ss?^•=WM: stt-ssf
IrM u r"' y anance . which however is not credible the
world would soon fee, which ~ the moll powerful.
(To be continued.)
THE TABLET No. CXXXI
"H" "" °J eVCn " w , h '[ k ha ' ?*>>» a certain icnt to tkc aa,tni
Swrmrr* and thoughti of men."
MOULD a man who lived a thousand yearsaeo enter a! r,;„
theatre of life, he would not readily believe he had found th,
Y m&S W u° forrter 'y Z globe The £
fove'of pie f°" S ' °" r re?ard t0 d " ,y may remaln f ">«re'ind'our
ina- P rc ma y continue ardent, while the modes ofcrratifv
ferent There ° ther b d,f
leaft m " h "" em a I*" 0 * wt >cn men d.d not at
Of to vl'cZ' annCX T pril,fe 10 virluous afiions ; and
of thl fl' • " S and y et " " common for men even
2i n , I V,cm " y have v,olcm dif P ut « on various fub<W
to the »,a, ile^eraS 8 B Two m n''""
£~-"7 T' aUd pnri °" fm ' and in finceri'ty of the™ ™t7
The fart i« h " acknowledges the full force of the principle,'
Jr„J tl 'j principle fx.ftt.n man himfelf and can never he
xtinguilhed. It may bs darkened by superstition :itm i« k
5!
moch from the principles which give rife to them .. r ,
habits and turns of thinking and feelinjt of the f™e?L'l A Z™" 1 -
of people by whom They 4 ase e«3 Th« ,4 cf^TlT
isxxrt:; "I s
NEW-YORK, JULY 14, , 790 .
FROM BOSTON.
Ci 7:z d z^L p t'tr 0< ";^
an Englifti Kaft-tndi,-Man X ' that the sPa"Urds5 P a "Urds had captured
Monday hji a committee of the Senate, appointed the 2d ~0 1, l
« a report on the AJun.pt.on, M contain"ke
KEsbLvtD, Thata loan ben.oDofcd S '
ty-one million of dollar,, and that
he received at the fame times and places, by the fair n r ?
upon the fame terms as in refpeft to the loan wh"h Lv°br' '
posed concerning the domed,c debt of the United StaTe?
to the except,on, and qualif.cat.ons her-after ll j i j
■he fori,, which fh.ll be fubfcr.b, d to the said loan fha" be „
ble in the pr.nc.paland interest of the certificate,,,,' P ya "
pr.or to the firA day of January l.ft were K »° l «> which,
Stairs, as acknowledgments 01 evidences of debts by' them res 1 '* 6
lively owing, and which (hall appear by oathoil'l
the cafe may be) to have been the pronertv of L Lj ( ,s
dividuals, or body-politic, othei^ the'fafdfirft'd' 0-
of January last. Provided, that no greater s um fh.ll K, X
u, thecertificates of any Slate, than a', follows- Th is
In tljofe of New-Hamplhire, - . '"'sto lay,
In those of Maflacliufetts, - * 3°°,000
In thofc of Rhode-Ifl.md and Providence PlAn^ f ;„„ 4 ' 000 ' 000
Id those of Connecticut, » nS * 200,000
In those of New York, . " >,600,000
In those of New Jersey _ " '*200,000
In those of Pennlylvania, - 800,000
In thore of Delaware, . . *>200,000
In those of Maryland, « " 200,000
In those of Virginia, - ~ 800,000
In those of North-Carolina, . " 3> 2 °°>ooo'
In those cf South-Carolina . " 2 ,200,009
In those of Georgia, . " 4.°°°,000
300,000
rsitti^&zstfiissgsr*'* -*£"£
MAR.K.IED.] —The «h inft. Dr. lohn R B «■
in order to ,vf,rttke "KkJent of the uJt.J S, a u s ."
(Pi The managersgive notice that agreeable to an order of the rrr
pora"cn the drawing of the New- York Oty Lottery wJltJl 1
raenct on the JirJl Monday in Augujl. ' fofitivtlj am.
iE W-Y O K K, July Vjjo.
'The following Bill has been reported by a committee •ppointed
for the purpose ; after being read in the Iloule, it was ordered
to be printed—and it is underdood that it ihall be laid ovei to
the feiLon, in order that the public fcntiment may be ob
tained on the fubjetf.
A BILL more effectually to provide for the na
tional defence, hv eitablifhing a uniform Mi
litia throughout the Unitad States.
T> E it enafled hy the Senate and House of Representatives oj
oec. 1. |j theUmt:d antes of Amcrica in Longref ajjembicd, Tha.
the militia of the United States (hall confid of each and eveiy free
able-bodied male citizen of the relpeftivt Slates, resident ti e.eiti,
■who are or lhall be of the ot eighteen years, and under the
age of fifiv years (except as is herein after excepted) who lhall se
verally and refpctiively be enrolled by the captain ot command
ing officer ol the company within whofc bounds such citizens (hall
rclide, and that within months after palling of thU
at\ : And it lhall at all times hereafter be the duty of every such
captain or coinmauding officer of a company, to enrol every such
citizen as alorefaid, and also those who (hall from time to time,
arrive at the age ot eighteen years, or being of the age of eighteen
years and under the age of fifty year* (except as before excepted
ihall come to reside wiihm his bounds ; and shall without delay
notify such citizen ot the said enrolment by a proper non-com
xnifiioncd officer of the company, hy whom luch notice may be
proved—That every ciuzen so enrolled and notified, shall within
months thereafter, provide himfelt with a good muiket o.
firelock of a boie not finaller than feventcen balls to the pound, <•
iufficient bayonet and belt, a pouch with a box therein to contain
not left than twenty-four cartridges suited to the bore of his
mulket or firelock, each cartridge to contain a proper quantity ol
powder and ball, two {pare flints and a knapsack ; and lhall ap
pear so arme'l, accoutred and provided, when called out to exer
cise or into service as is herein after dire&ed, except that when
called out on company days to exercise o n W» he rna Y a pp car with
out a knap lack—That the commiflioned officers (hall severally be
Mrmed with a sword or hanger, and efponioon.
Sec. 2. And be it further enabled, That the Vice-President of the
United States, the members of Congress, with their several officers
and lervants attending either Houle; the officers, judicial and ei
ccutive, ot the general government ; the Lieutenant-Governor Mid
executive counci' of the rcfpe£live States ; the members of the
legislatures of the refpeefcive States, with their officers and servants
attending their several houses ; all judicial and executive officers
of each State ; all persons confciencioufly scrupulous of bearing
arms; all minider* of religion, actually having the charge of a
church or congregation ; all principals, profeflors, and other
teaci.crs of, together with the (Indents in universities, colleges and
academies; every school madcr a&ually having the charge of a
school ; all poll-officers and dage drivers, who are employed in
the care and conveyance of the mail of the post office of the Uni-
Statcs; one miller to every grid-mill ; all commiflioned officers
■who heretofore (erved in the continental army, and all mariners
a&ually engaged in tbe fca ferviceof any citizen or merchant with
in the Unit d States, together with such other persons who may bt
excepted by any law hereafter to be pasTed by the legislature of any
particular Statej lhall be, and arc hereby excepted out of this ast,
and exempted from militia duty, notwilhdanding their being a
bove the age of eighteen, and under the age of fifty yean.
Sec. 3. And be it further enabled, That the governor, or com
mander in chief of the militia of the refpeftive States for the time
being, (hall within one year from the palling ol this ad, by gene
ral orders, arrange the "whole militia under his command into
divisions as nearly equal as conveniently may be, and those divi
sions into brigades, regiments, batialions and companies—That
cach division, brigade and regiment in the State, lhall be num
bered at the formation thereof, arnd a record made of such num
bers in the adjutant-general's office in the State ; and when in the
iield or in fei vice in the State, each division, brigade and regiment
ihall refpe&ively take rar.k according to their numbers, reckoning
the firft or lowed number highed in rank—That each brigade, if
pra&icablc, (hall confid of at lead sou* regiments ; each regiment
of at lead two battalioas ; each battalian of five companies if prac
ticable ; and each company of sixty-sour men—That the said mi
litia lhall be officered by the refpettive States as follows : To each
division, one major-general, and two aidsde camp with the rank
of majors ; to each brigade* one brigadier general, with one bri
gade infpe&or, to serve also as a brigade major, with the rank of
major ; to each regiment one lieutenant-coldnel commandant and
to cach battalion one majof; to each company, one captain, one
iieutenant, one ensign, four sergeants, four corporals, one drum
mer, and one filer or bugle home ; that to cach regiment there
lhall be a regimental daft, to confid of one adjutant, and one quar
ter-mader, to rank as lieutenants, one pay-master, one surgeon
and one furgeou's mate, one fergcant-major,onc drum major aiad
one fife major.
Set. 4. Indbeit further tvacled, That in order to promote mi
litary knowledge among the citizens of the United St tcs in their
youth, and for the purpose of furnifhing the means of immediate
defence in cafe of invasion or infurrc&ion, the citizens of the Uni
ted States forming the militia thereof asaforefaid, and who (hall
be of the age ol eighteen years, and under the age of twenty-five
years, (hall be separately enrolled bv the captain or other com
manding officer of the company, and officered by the Siate, and
formed into dtftinft companies by themselves in like manner as is
herein before directed, which companies (hall form the light in
fantry or riflemen of each battalion or legiment—That to cach
hrigade there (hall be at lead one company of artillery, and one
troop of horse. The officers of each company of artillery (hall
consist of one captain, two lieutenants, four sergeants, four cor
porals, fix gunners, fix bombardiers, one drummer and one fifer.
The officers to be armed with a sword or hanger, afufee, bayonet
and belt, with a cartridge box to contain twelve cartridges ; and
each private or matrofs (hall furnilh himfelf at his own expence
"with all the equipment* of a private iu the infantry, until proper
ordnance and field artillery is piovided. The officers of each
lioop of horse (hull confid of one captain, two lieutenant*, one
c<»inti, four sergeants, four corporals, one laddler, one famer and
one trumpeter. The commiflioned officers to furnifh themselves,
at their own expenCe, with good horses, of at lead fourteen hands
high, and to be armed with a sword and pair of pidols, the hol
ders of which to be co ered with bear (km caps. Each dragoon
tofurnifli himleif, at hisown expence, with a serviceable horse,
at( lead fourteen hands high, a good saddle, bridle, housing, hol
it«TS. and a bread plate and crupper, a pair of boots and spurs, a
pair of pidols, a ftrbre, and a cartouch box to contain twelve car
ti wages tor pidols. That each company of artillery and troop of
hai le lhall be formed of volunteers from the brigade, at the dif
trction of the commander in chief of tbe State, not exceeding one
company of each to a regiment, nor more in number than one
eleventh part ol theinfantrv, and (hall be uniformly cloathed in
regimentals to befurnilbed at their own expence, the colour and
fain ion of which to be determined by the bribadier commanding
lue brigade to which they belong.
Sec. 5. And be it furtha enalied, That each battalion and regi
ment Ihaiibe provided with State and regimental colours, at the
cxpence of the field officers, and each company with a drum and
fate at the expcnce of the commiflioned officeis of the company,
until they can bfc reimbursed by the fines and forfeitures herem-af
icr mentioned.
Sec. 6. Atid be it further enaCled, That each company of the mi
litia oi" the. United States, who lhallfowft the light infantry or
xifle companits, the artillery and troops of horfc as *fo*\
lhall rendezvous four tirpes in every year, m companies, for ihe
purpofc of training, disciplining <nui improving in manialcxa
eifes; and : W .cc m every year in regimem or al ' on - as
commandihg officer of the brigade lhall dire&. 11 ' j
companies ot said militia lhall rendezvous twice in eve y ) e»., in
companies, and Lw.ce .n every year .n rcgimtnlor baUahon "
atorefaid. The times and places of rendezvous to be a £P°' nt< £
by the laws of each State, or the commander ... eh.et therc °''
fUcn manner that the held and iiaif officers may ave an opp
nity of attending the fcveral companies exerc.l.ng in oeta.l, .no
der to introduce uniformity in the manoeuvres and ui tip >
the regiment. (To be continued.)
P A R*l S, April 16
This city has not experienced a more violent
agitation lince the revolution, than it has done
for the lalt three or four days Religious mo
tives have been one alligned reason toi the tu
mults—but the more jult cause has been, a con
federacy among the members ot the clei and
lame others, to overturn the decrees ot the Na
tional Aff'embly of the second of November Kilt,
alienating the lands of the clergy to pay oft the
debis of the nation.
On the 13th at night, the police having re
ceived information that a very numerous meet
ing was fecrerly held at the Capuchin Convent,
which was rather suspicious, a guard was instant
ly dispatched thither, where, among others,
were found, the archbifhopof Toulou r e, thebifh
op of Nanci, the Abbe Mauri, Mefl'. d'Efpreme
nil, Cazalet, and about two hundred more mem
bers of the National Aficinbly. Several refolu
tious have been palled among them, That in calc
the decree for alienating the Church Lands from
their ancient poflefTors was finally carried into ex
ecution, they would set the kingdom into con
fufion by the writings that should be dispersed a
broad. Several other long resolutions palled
which are not yet public.
On the 14th iufl.fcveral ofthefe members went to
the Aflembly with firearms concealed under their
clothes. The clergy had, on the preceding day,
got over about one hundred and seventy-one
members 10 their views, and they entertained the
ftrongefl hope, that what with this acquisition of
numbers, with threats, declamation and clamour,
they would be able to carry their paint. At no
fitting since the revolution, has there been a bat
tle so hardly contested, or conducted with such
intrepidity. All the higher and many of the in
ferior clergy, jumped into the trenches to defend
the bastions and ramparts of the church, but in
vain—after four days struggle, they were con
quered by a great majority as will appear by the
succeeding account of the final determination of
the aflembly, by which the nation is irrevocably
confirmed in its right to the eccleiiaftical lands.
Previous to this question being introduced to
the aflembly, the cjergy had bceii extremely as
siduous in circulating incendiary letters through
out their dioceses.
Tlie agitation which their meeting at the Ca
puchin Convent, and the alarm which the violent
debates in the National Allembly had produced,
had caused the marquis de la Fayette and M. Bail
ly to place a treble guard about the Thuillerics,
to refill: the mob. A member complained of this
in the debate, but ir proved extremely fortunate,
for several members would ctherwife have been
faci ificed in getting away. As it was, fevefal
were very roughly handled.
A large concourfeof people had adembled ear
ly on the i 4th, at the avenues of the National
Allembly to hear the debate. On the members
coming away, some were applauded, others were
hooted—The Vifcountde Mirabeau being hilled,
he drew his sword, which lb incensed the mob,
that he would have been murdered, had it not
been for the affillance of the guards, who con
ducted him and M. Cazalct to the Jacobite con
vent, where climbing over the walls they escaped.
The Abbe Mauri got off undiscovered from the
allembly ; but being met in the evening, the
mob allailed him, when he drew a pair of pistols
from under his coat, but feeing himfelf in dan
ger of being overpowered, he ran into a house
and rtiutthe door. Ihe guard soon came to his
aflillance. M. de Noailles, though a great ene
my to the Abbe's politics, living near to the place
flew to his rescue. M. Mounter did the lame,
and both joined in offering him their hotel for
his protection, which he accepted of.
The King, though a friend to the Abbe Mauri,
has thought it prudent to desire that neither he
nor the \ ifcount de Mirabeau may viiic him at
the Thuillerics, as his majesty is fearful of some
popular disturbance.
Jpril 27.—Fifty patriots of St. Claude have
formed themselves into a society, and bound
themselves by a solemn oath, to disclose to the
proper officers of the municipality, civil and cri
minal, every plot or delign against the public //.
bcrty. If this glorious example be followed br
other cities and towns hi the kingdom, all at
tempts to effeil a counter revolution will be
fruitlefs.
Creditors of CA EUSHA SHELDON, of SalifW are
-I heieby notified, That the Suhl'cribrts S-etrijj appointed i'nif
t csot laid She look's cftate, will attend tothe bufinct of their
appointment on the firfi Monday of August' next, at the house of
Jacobus Davis inlaid Salisbury, agreeable tothe Aftof Afleni
Ily.—The intcreil of tiic creditors .eqnm-s their
HEZEKTAH FITCH, }
JOHN IIIRD, C rruftces.
wjhrr, (CavcfScX;, Juic :8 1-S9.
dancc.
524
PROSPECTUS
OF AN NKW PERIODICAL WORK,
TO BE CALLED
THE BEE,
UNIVERSAL LITERARY INTELLIGENCER.
To be published weekly:
AND TO CONTAIN, ~ ;
fit side 1 Original Miscellaneous Letters on Literui
and the BilU's Lettreij • Vi" .
EARLY account* of new diKovcrius in science
arts ; an occasional rdview of valuable publications at hoSvSS
abroad ; cwrtili from foreign journal-, academical
and domestic performances of merit; bio l /rjpliieal a*C«dMM|a(.
memoirs of eminent persons; notices of the heroicMctueyMMtf
of ancient and honorable families ; observations ontfittOMnjJtW
and natural history of Britain and other countries ; divySfiS
concerning eiviV hi>tory, and the progress of Hie f
pocticalessays and translations; debates and distingniflit<£fy||||L'
es in parliament, and in the political aslembltts oiotl*)fftpj
remarkable laws and interesting decisions in courM <>f
concise chr6mcle of recent events; and a complete UiiwwhK
lications in Britain, with the pricis.
THI WHOLE BEIMC CALCULATtD-
To furnish an instructive amusement for the uresettt hwpfly
to transmit to posterity a faithful pi&uic of ihe ac<|«itoi£
modes of thinking, prevailing habits, and chtctputsmifmUk
in Europe at lea it, dui itig the period that this worjt '
tinuc to be published * """
JAMES ANDERSON, LLD.
fRS. ISA. S.
Honorary Memler of the Society of Arts, Agricul!ure>&c. at Bath,
ojthe Philosophical, and nj the Agricultural Societies in
and vj the Academy oj Aits, Sciences, and Belles LtUrts, ifyun,
Author oj several perjormnnces.
Jntcndes animum studiis et rebus honestis..
Hoi.
CONDITIONS.
I. THIS Work will be published in Numbers, wetklv; each
Number, /or foreign parts, to contain three sheets, (48pages,)
small o&avo.
11. A 'we Numbers will complete ? Volume, and six Volumes
a year; two intercalary Numbers being incorporated with the
others, to keep the Publication regular.
111. It will be printed on three kinds of paper, to suitthc
taste of dilFerent classes of purchasers, viz. coaife, common, ai\A
fine writing paper.
IV. Subscriptions will be taken in by the Volume only ; and
no separate Numbers will be sold.
V. The price will be, for thecoarfe paper per Volume, 25.6 d.
for the common 3V 3H. and for the fine paper 4s. token sent by ft*
to any port in Great Britain
SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR THIS WORK,
Arc received by the Editor, (post paid) at the Piinting Houwof
Mundell and Son, Edinburgh, by Auhikald MtAuslandand Ci
Greenock; Corrie, Glad>tones and Bradshaw,
Uclicar and Son, Bristol ; and, Mr. McCulloch, Opticiau,No. $
Minories, London.
THE amplification of this Profpc&us is con
tamed in fcven pages of quarto demy, closely printecToh aTtoall
type.—The adorefs to the public is an ingenious, philof-phic and
animated performance ; (ketching the outlines of the Editor's ex
tensive which address concludes thus
41 COMMUNICATIONS lor this work may be written in the
French, Spanish j Portuguese, Italian, German, Dutch, Diusk,
Swedish 01 Russian languages, or in Latin, as best suits the eafc of
correspondents; though, tor obvious reasons, they will be more
acceptable in the English thaii any other language.
"A particular time cannotbe fixed for the commcnremrntoftfiil
publication; as many necessary arrangements must first be taker,
which may requite a longer time than is expe&ed, to adjust.
The editor is indeed too anxious to have the work well cone, t»
think ol commencing it pri maturely. Those at a distance, how
ever, who incline to < ncouragc it, should lose no time in forward-'
ing their orders, as it is probable it may be commenced by tin
time that a return from them can be obtained.
4t C3~* In the first, or some early number of this work, will legit
ev, original memoirs and authentic anecdotes of the late ingenious Dr.
William Cul/in, the respefled preceptor and much esteemed futrtu and
friend of the editor, accompanied with a portrait, which no priu skill
be spared to render as exact a likeness as possible, oj that truly greitani
worthy man. As Jew copies will be thrown off at any time wore than
are subscribed for, those who wish to le possessed of this please
to send their orders soon."
Then follows an address to foreign corrcfpondents —and a ft
ries of etiquiriis on aim oft every fubjefk that science comprehends;
to which he solicits anfwirsfrom every quarter of the globe. He
fuggi its an attention to economy in regard to the conveyance of
parcels, and mentions Britifli Consuls, Ambafladors, and other
public characters abroad, as mediums through which he may
bably be favored in this particular ; and concludes with the fol
lowing information.
44 As the editor has already begun a correspondence, or las the rear
prospers of doing so, with some distinguished literary characters,
mies and journalists, in France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Ger.t&i"*vpt
Swisserland, dijferent parts of Germany, Holland, Denmark, Sweacr,
Pussie, Poland, Prussia, Canada, the United States of America, Feng o *
Madras, aud all the other British settlements in India, China, latavia,
the Cape of Good Hope, the British and French Islands in the
dies, and is alio fiottered with the hope of being able to a direct
correspondence with some oj the Spanish and Poituguese settlements >*
-Inlet tea, with some «J (he states oj Africa where trade ek'ith Unlaw ,s
atlow*d, and even with Turkey, should the present war come to*
conclujion ; into all these places this miscellany in that case u lls
way. By this means information may be readily conveyed fro* tn J c >
these places to all the others ; so that he hopes in a short time this wot
& ill be singularly well entitled to the name of The Universal literary
Intelligencer."
No plan of a similar work that has come tinder our obfervatio*
appears to be calculated on more philanthropic, ufeful, and con
prchcnfivc principles ; and, we moll fincerdy wish Doctor Ar."
deifon success in his undertaking. A republication of this art)
may merit attention troin the friends of literature and of
James F. Sebor, ancf Co* ,
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street,
Fly-Market «•
WHERE they jiegociare afl kinds of PUBLICS
SECURITIES— BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c. a»uf<»>-
Ncz. -York. April 8. 1 7qo. nf. ' -
The Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA, >
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten minutes a
Eight o'clock every morning except Sunday.
Stage Office, City Tavern, J
Bio3d.fay, Nezv-Ycrk June 5, 1790. )
[&DIKBUXG*!, M.\RC.H, 17901
V;-
' h-'