PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS EY JOHN FENXa, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 32, cf Vol. ll.j
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA. No. XVI
(continued.)
Opposant, sans relache, avec trop de prudence
Lcs Guises itixCon(Us,ct la France a la France.
Ton jours piete a s'umr aycc fes cnneoiis
Et cnangcant d'inieier, de rivaux, et d'arais,
WHILE all minds, were held in agitation at
Court by these events, the Bourbons fuw
themselves, notwithilanding their proximity of
blood, and pretentions to the cro\j», contrary to
the ufjgeof the nation, excluded from employ
ments and honors. Except when the necellity
of a war, or the exercise of some office of little
consequence, which remained'to them, required
their presence, they appeared not at Court. It
is true, that the Count D'Aguien, on« of the
Princes ot this houfe,had advanced iiiinfel'fby his
merit and valour. The King had given him the
c'ommaud of his army in Piedmont. The battle
of Cerizolles, which he gained againlt the Spa
niards, had raised his reputation. But this ad
vantage was too tranlitory to raise the house of
Bourbon. This Prince died by accident, m the
flour of his age, and his brother, the Duke D'An
guien was killed at the battle of Sr. Quintin.
There remained therefore none of the children
of Charles of Bourbon, but Anthony Duke of
Vendome, and King of Navarre, by his marriage
with Jane of Albret ; Louis, Prince of Conde,
the Itock of the branches of Conde and Conti,
killed afterwards at Jarnac, and Charles, Cardi
nal Bourbon, proclaimed King afterwards by
the Leaguers, under the name of Charles the
tenth
The chiefs of the house, were now, Anthony
Duke of Vendome, and Louis Prince o>f Condc,
Lis brother, both Tons of Cbarles of Vendome,
■who, after the revolt of the Constable de Bour
bon, and the captivity of Francis the si rft, by his
moderation and difinterettedncfs, had somewhat
calmed the hatred which had Jwen viol tntly cu
iindted rhofeofhis blood*. Tb«efe Princ
es, deprefled by the Guifcs, whom t! icy called
Itrangers and new comer 9 from Lorr tiin, com
plained bitterly, that except the right of fuccef
«on to the crown, which 110 man couL 1 rake from
them, they were deprived of all their privileges,
auid especially ot the hopor of rcfidin g near the
person of the King. That they scarcely held
any rank in a court, where their t irth called
them to the fir lk places afier his jetty : arid
that such conuutfl was equally inconl iilent with
reason and equity. l"he King howc sver, main
tained with-inflexibility, thepoweroi 'the Guises
againlk all remonftrancea and compl. lints. The
Bourbons endured with less impatier ice, the ele
vation of the Constable Montmoren :y : on the
contrary, they were severely mortifi td to fee his
credit diminilh. United with him bj 'an alliance,
hv views and by interests, they flat lered them
selves they might obtain by his me Bn9 a decent
Tank, if they could not re-ascend r o that which
their ancestors had pollefled. But now,'depriv
ed of that hope which supports the unfortunate
l>y foftening the fentinient of thi sir ills, they
bore with (kill greater impatience tl leirdifgraces.
Anthony of'Vendome, a Prince ( if a mild and
moderate chara&er, appeared to fopport thairi
■with more tranquility than the ot Jiers, because
he meditated great designs. He had married
Jane of Albret, only daughter of Henry, King of
Navarre, ar.d afier the deat;h ofhir! father in law
he had taken the crown and title of King. His
-projecfl was to recover hirj kingdom of Navarre,
of which the Spaniards had nia<le themselves
masters, for several .yea ;s, durin:* the war, be
tween Louis the Xlldi, ' and Ferdinand the Ca
tholic. The Kings of France, to whole interest
-chisftate had been facr'ificed, had attempted feve
• xal times to reconquer it. The Spaniards, who
could ealil.y inarch tro< ips t6 its relief, had hither
to defended it. Butt- he two crown*, being then
npon the point of co; icluding a solid peace, the
King ot Navarre, hop ed to comprehend in the
treaty, arid to obtain ; i relkitution ot his heredita
ry lkutea, or, at leal t, an equivalent. lie ■was
confirmed in this the ught, by the birth of a son,
. to whom he gave the name of Henry, in memory
,of bis maternal gi'»n< llather. This is the Prince,
hom, the splendor of his vidtories raised, after
la "g and bloody wai *s, to the tfironeof trance,
der th« name of Henry the fourth, and whose
loirs and virtues t.ave merited the name of
'He was-born the I 3th of December, 1554.
a\ Pav-> the capital 0 if Bern. This birth, wh\ch
fiUedsV" 1 ' joythc-K Ing and Q;ieen of Navarre,
SATURDAY, JULY 31, 1790.
inspired them with more ardor, to recover their
dominion. Anthony chose rather tointereft the
King of France, to demand this restitution in the
treaty of peace, than to finicit in quality of firft
Prince of the blood, governments and dignities
in the kingdom. It was this, which engaged
him todiflemble with more patience and mode
ration than the reft, the injullice done to his
house. The King, periiftiug in the design of
lowering continually the Princes of the blood,
or perhaps irritated at tbs reful'al of Anthony,
to exchange Beam and his other ftates,for cities
and territories lituated in the interior of the king
dom, had difinembered train Guinne, of which
the King of Navarre was governor, as firft
Prince of the blood, Lauguedoc and the city of
Toulouse, to give the government of it, to the
Constable. But the King of Navarre, ftiewing
little resentment of this injustice, pursued cou
ftantly his firft views. (To bs continued.)
(p- The reader is i fired to correS tie following errors of the press
in our lajl, " Dfcovifes tn Dmila* fourth line ftom the top Jirfi co
lumn, dele apofiropre front the " Utntmorencys"—nth lirefrom bot
tom f'Jl co'umn\ for " captive" read caplitfiie.
TRANSLATED
rOR Til'- GA7.ETTE C. THE. UNITED STATES.
instructions for-the colonies,
Presented to the National jfflembly, in the name of
the Committee appointed for that pttrpofe, the 23d
March, 1790.
By Mr. Bisstvt, Deputy from Daupliiny.
ARTICLE FIRST.
ift. HPHE decree of the National Assembly
A of the Bth of this month, refpe<Jting
the Colonies, and the prefentinftrudtions halving
been sent by tbe King, to the governor of the
colonies of St» Dorai«fgo> t&c ibadl be
bound iinmediately after their reception,to com
municate them to the colonialAflembly,fhould one
exiit already formed ; to notify thein in like man
ner to theprovincial Afleinblies, and to give legal
and authentic knowledge of them to the inhabi
tants of the colony, by proclaiming and fixing'
them up in all the pariihes.
2d. if a colonial Aflembly exists, it may if it
pleases declare that it judges the formation of a
new colonial Aflembly more advantageous to the
colony than the continuation of its own powers,
and in this cafe, they fliall immediately proceed
to new eledlions.
gJ. If on the contrary, it conceives its conti
nuation moil advantageous to the coloniesit may
commence its operations according t<o the mode
pointed out by the National Aflembly ; but with
out being capable of using the power granted to
the colonial Aflemblies to execute certain decrees,
until the intention of the colony with respeCt to
its continuation has been proved, agreeable to
the forms hereafter fee forth.
4th. Immediately after the proclamation and
fixing up the decreed institutions in each parifti,
every person who lhall have attained the full age
of 25 years, proprietors of real eltate, or for
want of such property, Ikall have been fettled
in the parilh for two years, and paid taxes ;
(hall ali'emble together to form the parochial As
sembly.
Sth. The parochial Aflembly being formed,
lhall commence by taking into full coniideratioi,
the decree of the National Aflembly of the Bth
inft. and the present inftruiftions, to procecd in
the execution, in the manner following.
6th. If no colonial Aflembly antecedently
eleifted, should exilt in the colony, or if that
which exiited has declared that it judges it molt
expedient to form a new one, the parochial As
sembly (hall immediately proceed to the election
of deputies to the colonial Aflembly.
7th. For this purpoie, there lhall be made
out a llatement and an enumeration of all the
persons ofthe parish, absent or present, poflefltd
of the qualities exprefled in the 4th article ot the
present inllrurtion, to determine in proportion
to their number, of the deputies which
ought to be fenttothe colonial AlTembly.
Bth. This enumeration being made, the num
ber ofthe deputies to be nominated, (hall be
determined, at the rate of one for one hundred
citizens ; observing, lit, that the lait hundred
lhall be judged compleat, if it amounts to the
number of fifty citizens, so that for ijo citizens
there fholl be two deputies ; tor a;o citizens,
541
* .w
PdfllS.
CONTINVID,
three deputies, and so 011. ad, That no regard
(hall be had in the parishes where there Ihall be
more than 100 citizens, and the fractional num
ber below jo, so that for 149 citizens, there ihall
only one deputy be appointed, and so on. 3d, In
the parilhes where there Ihall be less than one
hundred citizens, a deputy shall nevertheless be
appointed, however small the number of citizens
Ihall be whichmay be found therein.
9th. After having determined the number of
deputies which they have to nominate, the pro
vincial Aflemblies Ihall proceed to this election,
in the manner which Ihall appear most luitable
to them.
10th. The parochial Aflemblies lhall be at
liberty to give inllrmftions to their deputies, but
they cannot charge them with any orders tend
ing to conltrain their opinions in the colonial
AlieujWy, and (till less to insert any clauses tend
ing 10 withdraw them from the sense ofthe majo
rity ; if a parish lhould give fuchordeis, they
(hall be decined null, and the colonial Aflembly
fliall pay 110 regard to them, but elections of
the deputies fball not be invalidated.
nth. The deputies elected by the parochial
Aflembly, fliall immediately repair to the town
of Leogine, and lhall there determine the place
where the colonial Aflembly ought to fit.
I To be continued.)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
July aoth, 1790.
In Obedience to the Order oj the House of Reprefcatatives,
OJthe twentieth oj January li/t,
TiV Secretary of the Treasury,
RtfpeVfully Reports,
THAT in the f jrmation of a plan for thr difpofuion of the vacant
lands of the United States, there appear to be two lead in *
object* of conftderation ; one, the facility of advantageous sales
according to the probable course of purchases ; the other, the ac
commodation or individuals now inhabiting the wellern coun
try, or who may hereafter emigrate thither.
The former, as an operation oi Finance, cUims primary atten
tion ; the latter is important, as it relates to the i'atisfacfion of the
inhabitants of the western country. It is 4sfirable, and does not
appear impracticable, to conciliate both.
Purchasers may be contemplated in three clafles—Moni.d in
dividuals and companies, who will buy to fell again—Alloca
tions of pertons who intend to make fettleinenis themselves—Sin
gle persons or families now resident in the weft:fn country, or
who may emigrate thither hereafter- The two Hi ft will be fre
quently blended, and will always want considerable tra6b. Trr
laft will generally puichafe small quantities. Hence a plan for
the sale of the wellern lands, while it may have due regard to the
last, (hould be calculated to obtain all the advantages which miy
be derived from the two firft classes. For this reason it fcems re
quisite that the General Loan-Office Chould be eftabhlhcd at the feat
of government. ' Tis there that the principal purchafrrs, whether f
citizens or foreigners, can most ealily find proper agents, and chat
contracts lor targe puichafes can be best adjusted.
But the accommodation ot the present inhabitants of the weft
em territory, and of unaffociated persons and families who may
emigrate thither, seems to require, that one office subordinate t<>
that at the feat of Congress fbould beopened in ttie north-wcilcrn,
and another in the iewth-weftern government.
Each of these officcs, as well the general one as the subordinate
ones, it is conceived, may be placed with convenience under the
fuperintendance of threC commiflioners, who may either be pre
eltabliflud officers of the government, to whom the duty may be
assigned by law, or persons specially appointed for the purpose.
The former is recommended by considerations ©f ceconomy, and
it is probable would embrace advantage which Could be
derived from a fpccial appointment;
To obviate those inconvcniencies, and to facilitate and enfure\
the attainment of those advantages, which may arise from new and
casual circumftjnces, springing up from loreign and domcftic cau*
fes, appear to be an object for which adequate provision should
be made in any plan that may be adopted. For this reason, and
from the intiinfic dilßculty of regulating the details of a fpecific
provision for the various obje£U which require to be consulted, so
as neither to do too much nor too little for either, it is refpeftlul
ly submitted, whether it would not be advifeable to vest a con
hderable latitude of discretion in the commiflioncrs of the general
fubutt to some such regulations and limitations as sol-
low, VIZ,
That no land shall be fold, cxcept such in refpe£l to which the
titles of the Indian tribes (hall have been previously extinguished.
That a fufficient tratt or tra£U lhall be reserved and set apart for
fatisfying the fabferibers to the proposed loan in the public debt,
but that no location (hall be for less than five hundred acres.
That conveniertt tratts lhall from time to time be set apart for
the purpose of locations by a£Uial f.ttlers, in quantities not ex-*
ceedingto one person one hundred acres.
That other tratts (hall, from time to time, be set apart for sales
in townlhips of ten miles (quare, except where they lhall adjoin
upon a boundary of some prior grant, or of a tract lo set apart; in
which cases there (hall be no greater departure from such form of
location, than may be abfolutcly necedary.
That any quantities may ntverthelefs be fold by special contra#,
comprehended either within natural boundaries or lines, or both.
That the price (hall be thirty cents per acre to be p*id, either
in gold or silver, or in public securities, computing those which
ihall bear an immediate interest of fix per cent, as at par with
j and filvtr, and thole which shall bear a future or less inlcreft,
any there (hall be, at a proportional valuer
That certificates iflued tor land upon the proposed loan, shall
operate as warrants w iihin the tra£l or tra&s whica (hall be spe
cially set apart lor fatisfying the fubfetibers thereto, and shall also
be receiveable in all payments whatsoever for land by way of dif-
acre for acre.
That no credit shall be given for any quantity less than a towrt
(hip often milfs square, nor more than two credit fpr any
t greater quantity*
$$00
[Whole No. 136.]That in every inftanec of credit, at Icaft one quarter part of the
confederation shall be paid down, and security, other than the land
iifelf, shall be required for the residue, And that no title (Hall be
given for any tractor part of a purchase beyond the quantity for
-which the confederation shall be e&ually paid.
That the residue of tie tra& or trails set apart for the fubfetibers
to the proposed loan, which (hall not have been located within
two years after the fame shall have been set apart, may then be
fold on the fame terms as any other laud.
That the commiflioners of each subordinate office shall have the
management of all tales, and the ifTuing of warrants for all loca
tion? in the tra&s to be i#t apart for the accommodation ot indivi
dual settlers, fubjeft to the niperintendency of the commiflioners
of the general land-ojfue,who may also commit to them the manage
ment of any other (alesoi locations which it may be found expe
dient to place under their diretlion.
That there shall be a surveyor-general, who shall have power to
appoint a deputy surveyor general in each of the weflern govern
ments, and a competent number of deputy surveyors to execute
in pcrfon all warrants to them directed by the surveyor general or
deputy furvcyor-gent rals within certain diftrifts to be afligned to
them rcfpettively. That the furvevor-general shall alio have in
charge all the duties committed to the geographer-general by the
several resolutions and ordinances of Congref's.
That all warrants at the general land-office shall be signed
by the commiflioners, or such one of them as they may nominate
"for that purpose, and shall be dire&ed to the surveyor-general.
That all warrants issued at a fuboidinate office, shall be signed by
the commiflion«i3 of such office, or by such one of them as they
may nominate f< r tnat purpose, and lhall be dire&ed to the de
puty surveyor-general within the government That the priority
of locations upon warrants shall be determined by the times of the
applications to the deputy-surveyors : and in cafe of two applica
tions for the fame land at one time, the priority may be deter
mined by Jot.
That theTreafurer of the United States shall be the receiver of
all payments for sales made at the general land-office,and may also
receive deposits money or securities for purchases intended to be
made at the subordinate offices, his receipts or certificates fcr
which shall he teceived in payment at those offices.
That the secretary of each of the western government, shall
be the receiver of all payments arising from tales at the office of
such government.
That controversies concerning rights to patent* or grants of
land, shall be determined by the commissioners of that office, un
der whose immediate aireftion or jurifdiftion the locations in
Tefpcft to which they may arise shall have been made.
That the completion of all contra&s and sales heretofore made,
shall be under the dire&ion of the commitlimicrs of tht general
land-office.
That the commissioners of the general land-Office, furvevor ge
neral, deputy surveyors general, and the commiflloners of the land
office in each of the western governments, (hall not purchase, nor
shall others purchase for them in trust, any public lands.
That the secretaries of the western governments shall give secu
rity for the faithful execution of their duty, as receivers of the
land-office.
That all patents shall be signed by the President of the United
States, or by the Vice-President or other officer of government act
ing as President, and shall be recorded in the office either of the
surveyor-general, or ot the clerk of the fuprcme court ot the Uni
ted States.
That all surveys of land shall be at the expenceof the purchasers
01 grantees.
That the fees shall not exceed certain rates to be fpecificd in the
law, affording equitable compensations for the fervicesef the sur
veyors, and eltablifhing reasonable and cuflomary charges lor pa
tents and other office papers, for the benefit of the United States.
That the commiffioncrs of the general land-office, (hall, as soon
as may be, from tune to time, cause all the rules and regulations
which they may cftabhfh to be publifhcd in one gazette, at least
in each state, and in each of the western governments where there
is a gazette, for the information ot the citizens of the United
States.
Regulations like these will define and fix the mod edential par
ticulars which can regard the disposal of the western land*, and
where they leave any thing to discretion, will indicate the general
principles or policy intended by the legislature to be observed,
for a conformity to which the commiflioners will, of course, be
icfponfible. They will at the fame time leave room for accom
modating to circwmftances which cannot beforehand be accurate
ly appreciated, and for varying the course of proceeding as expe
rience shall suggest to be proper, and will avoid the danger of those
obftrufiions and embarrailmeuis in the execution, which would
be to be apprehended from an endeavour at greater precision and
more cxzCi detail.
All which is humhl\ [übmillci-,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary oj the Tieajury
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FRIDAY, JULY 23^
Debats on the Amendment of the Senate to the Fund-
itig Billy to affttme a part of the State Debts.
MR. JACKSON moved that the amendment of the Senate
reipcdting the AfTumption of the State debts, should be dif-
agrted to.
In fuppoitofhis motion he said, it is with great relu&ance I
rile again on the question before tiic house. A measure which
has not only agitated this legiilature, but has more or lefcconvulfeii
the whole people ot the United States. It has elated speculators
and state irckets, wh'ilft it has tieprtficd three fourths of the ho
nest part of the community. It has held out alluring profpe&s
and fortunes to the one, whiift it has blasted and withered the just
cxpe&ations of the other. It has, in short, been the centre pin ot
visionary projectors and intereftcd men, whilst its future effe&s
have been viewed with horror by difmterefted minds.
To give a history of th:s important qucftion, for important,
however wicked, it certainly is, would be to tax Congress with
the mofi extreme inconsistencies; repeatedly hasthe question been
decided, and repeatedly negatived, and as the principle was firft
originated without reference, the fameftubborn disposition is man
lfeft, notwithstanding the repeated determinations of the house.
The forms of Proteus have been affumcd, and the forms of Pro
true have been iet'ca.ced here, but a new fhapc is not still wanting
tc aid riie pcrfeverance of the East. The Senate of the United
States, a power not know 11 to, nor chosen by, the people, have
to load the citizens ot the United States with an enor
mous debt.
I will rot appeal to the paflions; but I rail on the house, as
the representatives of the people, as the guardians of their liber
ties, to refill this encroachment on their conftiluents rights, they
"vw U1 expeit it, a..d if the principle is eftublifhcd: at present, there
is no knowing to what lengths it may be carried in future. As
well might the Senate under color of an amendment, have iulcrted
the whme funding system, in an appropriation bill, as have infer
cd this new principle in the law before the house. It may be ad
vanced, that it is no money bill, tkat there are no ways and means,
no taxes or burthens imposed on the people. To intcreiled men,
and perlons wpo would not look beyond the furface, this reafon
nig might appear just; but I would ask if the taxes and burth ns,
the ways and means mud not follow—pafs this principle in the
law, and the public faith is bound ; neglett to provide for it, and
you lay the government open to mfult.
But, Sir, fettiug,this encroachment of the Senate from our view
for the prcfent moment, I have no objection to conlider the ques
tion on its own merits. Nothing which I have yet heard has con
vinced me of its propriety. The accumulation of an immense
debt ought to be founded in more than perfcverance for i's basis ;
it ought to have jullicc for its ground work, and policy for its lu*
perftrufture.
The question of justice h3* been subservient to both fides of the
house ; but the great rules, the leading features of justice have not
been answered, if they have been attempted. Where, I again de
mand is the justice of compelling a (late which has taxed her citi
zens for the finking her debt, to pay another proportion not of her
own, but the debts of other States, which have made no exertions
whatever ?
If this AfTumption had taken place at the eonclufion of the war,
the principle would have been more jnft than at prcfent, because
none of the States had made exertions to relieve themselves from
debt, and they were nearer on an equality, but even then it would
not hjve been on peifefl terms of luftice, the situations of the state,
and the xr charges, were not the fame.
But fir, supposing the accounts fettled at the elofe of the war ;
how would ihe expences of the war have been proportioned, not
agreeably to the present ratio of representation, will be allowed
me, how then ? Why, by of existing requisitions or near
ly so, and Georgia, would have paid the one ninetieth part of the
whole debt, whereas at pufent, the is bound for the one twenty
second. But now, fir, even the ratio of representation is to be
overleaped by the present of the AfTumption, and by a
calculation of the quota, (he will pay upwards of 600,000 dollars
more than (he will be benefited by. New-Hampshire and Geor
gia ought to receive, if a just quota was allowed as the 65th part
of the 21,000,000, 992,307 dollarseach—they are, by the system
before the house to receive but 306,000 dollarseach, which makes
a deficiency of 692.307 dollars and lome cents of their proportion
of the amount which is to benefit other States, and the c i izens ot
New-Hampfh«re and Georgia are to pay it. Can this house ex
pect that they will quietly submit to it. If the citizens of New-
Hampfhirc are disposed to be easy under the imposition, I do not
believe the citizens of the state 9f Georgia will be contented.—
Let us examine some of the other States. Maflachufetts is to re
ceive of the sum 4,000,000 ; her just quota of the sum would be
*,646.153 dollars or thereabouts, enjoying an excess in her favor
of 1,353,846 dollars. South Carolina has still a greater excefs,flic
is to receive 4,000,000 ; her quota of the sum would be 1,653,846
dollars and some cents ; thecxcefs in her favor will be 2,3461,53
dollars. North Carolina has an excess of 746.153 dollars, where
(he has not asked it, and when the State and her representatives
are averse to the mcafure. What, fir, I will ask, is this for ? Is
it by way of gift, or douceur ? I know her representatives to be
too honest, too ftcady to their trust, to be bribed. Georgia and
New-Hampftiire are however not the only states whiah will fuf
fer, New-Yolk and Maryland will likewile be injured. The
former is to reccive 1,200.000 ; herjuft qnota would be 1,904,615
dollars, there will be a deficiency therefore of 784,615 dollars.
The deficiency of Maryland is much greater, ftie is to receive but
800,000, and the deficiency from the amount of her just quota
will be 1,184.615 dollars. One state (Pennsylvania) has a million
allowed her above the amount of her debt. So that some of the
ftatts are to be double, and some treble taxed, for the benefit of
others. I will here. Sir, appeal to the fame moral sense with the
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Ames) to the fame rettitnde
of the heart, and Lwill confidently demand from him, if yt»u can
impose this burthen on the States, and call it equality, if you can,
adopt the AflTumption and call it justice.
I consider the state which made exertions, as I mentioned on a
former day, to have paid off so much of its proportion of these
debts, whether called the debts of the States, or the debss of the
Union. II state debts, the state ought to pay the debts of other
ftatcs ; if they are the debts of tl.e Union, then has the state which
has exerted ltfelf and paid off its own debt, contributed to its pro
poitiou,and ought not to pay a second time.
A gentleman Irom Conncftirut has analized the argument in
favor of the measure. As I think them of as much weight as any
that have been advanced, I will notice a Jew of them, as well as
my small ability will permit. That gentleman's fitft argument
is, that the debts were contracted on behalf and for the benefit of
the United States, and that therefore justice requires they ftiould
beaffumcd. On this principle, the gentleman has endeavored to
prove that the debts are of the fame nature, and in fa£t the debts of
the Un'ted States. The very term, however, which he uses, of
date debts, must convince htm they are so ; his explanation with
a gentleman from M jflachufctts (Mr. Gerry.) why they were not
mfrrted in the conflitution, has cqnvinced me that they were not
as the debts of the Union bythe Convention. That Con
vention met, and the Constitution was formed, for the redoration
of public credit, and if the (late debts were a part of the debt of
the Union, provision would have been made for ihem. But, fir,
if the convention had 110 power to insert them in the conflitution,
whence all our powers are derived : Neither, Sir, have we a pow
er under that Constitution to provide for the payment of them :
Neither arethofe debts of the fame nature-with that of the United
States. The fame fcrutinizingeye hath not pervaded the refpec
nve dates. Some dates in expe&ation of being the paymaderj
themselves, have dealt with a rigid parsimony, others ha\e been
as extravagantly liberal. Some have allowed regiments of olfi
ceisto their militia without men, whtlll others have'reducejl their
officers to a grinding situation. Some have allowed large boun
ties and pay, as has been the cafe with some of the States who
complain mod, whilst others have scarcely allowed bounty or
pay at all. Many of the chargcs of individual states would be
rejettcd, whilst others which the dates have rejeficd would be al
lowed. The difference is verv great, and as cleai as the day, and
none but intereftcd individuals can prevent difeerntng it.
7'o be, continued.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 28.
THE bill for the relief of disabled soldiers and
{eamen, and other perrons lately in the service
of the United States, was palled.
A bill to fatisfy the claims of Thomas Barclay
was reported, read the firft and second time, and
ordered to be engrofled for a third reading.
A bill to continue the adl for the temporary
eftablifliment of the Poft-Office, was read the firft
and second time.
The house took into consideration the amend
ments of the Senate to the Collection Bill, and
agreed to the fame.
THURSDAY, JULY 29.
The bill for the temporary establishment of the
Polc-Ouice, and the bill to compensate the fer
542
vices ofThomas Barclay,were-read t&e third time
and pafied.
Mr, Steele of the committee appointed
amine into thff proceedings of the fevtral SMtti
on the fubjed* of the Amendments proposed bywH
CongreJ's to the Conllitution of the United
reported, in fubltance as follow— -
New-Hampshire ami New-Yoik accepted all tl.e
articles but thelecond.
Pennsylvania palled over in silence the lirfl ami
fecoud articles—and accepted the reft.
Delaware postponed thefirfV article.
Mary land, South and North Carolina, and
Rhode-((land, ratified the whole.—So that it hp.
pears the fir It article has been agreed to by fix
States—the lecond by five—and all the others bv
eight.
A report on the memorial of Mrs- Greene, wi
dow cf the late Major Gen. Greene, was read.
A petition of Joseph Miller of Philadelphia
was read, Hating that he has established a Manu
factory of Gunpowder in the State ofPennfyl.
vania, in which, by proper encouragement, a
(ufficient quantity of that article may be manu
factured lor the use of the United States—and
praying the patronage of Congress.
Mr. Vining moved that the motion of Mr.Blood
worth for leave ro bring in a Bill to repeal the
sth feiftion ot the Residence Law, should be taken
into consideration.
Mr. Bloodworth wished the motion might be
suspended. lie said that he did not mean to call
it up to day—and therefore had not prepared
himfelf toilate his reafims fully for introducing
Mr. Vining observed, that the motion was in
pollellion of the house, and any member had a
right to call it up.
Mr Lawrance contended that it was very ex
traordinary that a motion brought forward by
one gentleman should be called up by another,
contrary to the wish of the member who made
it. He thought it was contrary to the rules of
the House.
Some further altercation ensued, in which Mr.
Vining, Mr. Gerry, Mr. Bloodworth, and Mr.
Lee spoke.
Mr. Bloodworth finally withdrew his motion for
the present.
A meflage was received from the Senate inform
ing the house chat they have agreed to some, and
dilagreed to others of the amendments proposed
by the house to the amendments of the Senate to
the Funding Bill.
The house after some debate receded from their
amendments, and agreed to those of the Senate.
The bill has now pafled both houses. Thein
terefl on Indents, and on one third of the State
Debts is fixed at three pr. ccnt. pr. ann.
The firic article of disagreement was in refpetfc
to the time when interest lhall commence on the
deferred pare of the principal— Ihe honfe pro
posed leven years—the Senate adhered to ten.
The motion for receding was opposed by Mes
sieurs Lawrance, Gerry, Ames and Seney—and
supported by Mr. Sedgwick, Fitzfimons, Sherman,
Williamfon, Stone and Lee—and on the question
Mr. Lawrance called for the Ayes and Noes,
which are as follow—
MeflTrs Alhe, Baldwin, Brown, Burke, Cadwal
lader," Carroll, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Floyd, Gale,
Goodhue, Griffin, Grout, Hartley, Heillci',Huger,
Huntington, Lee, Leonard, Livermore. JVluhlen
berg, Partridge, Scot, Sedgwick, Sherman, Sin
nickfon, Smith, (S. C.) Stone, Thatcher, Tucker,
Vining, Wynkoop, Willianifon. 33.
NOES.
Mefl'rs Ames, Benfon, Bloodwortli, Contee,
Foster, Gerry, Gilman, Hathorne, Jack
on, Lawrance, Madison, Mathews, Moore, Page,
barker, Renfellaer, Schureman, £>eney, Sevier,
Sylvelter, Smith (M.) Steele, Sturges, Sumpter,
Trumbull, White 27.
The next article of disagreement was the inter
est on Indents—The house propoled four per
cent. Ihe Senate adhered to their proposition
for three. The motion for receding was deter
mined by Ayes and Noes, as follow, viz.
AYES.
Mefl'rs Afhe, Baldwin, Brown, Burke, Cadwal
lader, Carroll, Clymer, Fitzfimons, F'loyd, Gale,
Goodhue, Grout, Hartley, Heifter, Huger, Hun
tington, Lee, Leonard, Livermore, P. Muhlen
berg, Partridge, Schureman, Scot, Sedgwick,
Sherman, Sylvester, Sinnickfon, Smith, (S. C.)
Stone, Thatcher, Tucker, \VilliamfonjWynkoop.
33; NOES.
MellrsAmes, Benfoii, Bloodworth, Coles,Con
tee, toller, Gerry, Gilman, Griffin, Hathorne,
Jacklon, Lawrance, Madiion, Matthews, Moore,
Page, Parker, Renfellaer, Seney, Sevier, Smith
(M.) Steele, Sturges, Sumpter, Trumbull, Vining,
White 21.
Similar amendments followed of course in ref
pecftto the aflumed part of tlie debt—which were
agreed to.—Previousto which, Mr. Parker moved
ihat the further confideratdon of theamendirients
to the Funding Bill, should be deferred to the
next feihon This motion was determined
not to be ip order. Adjourned.
AYES.
*
» • ' ' v
4FRIDAY, JULY 30.
Sundry petitions and memoriae were read and referred to the
heads of departments.
The report on the petition of Catherine Greene, widow of the
late general Greene, was read the second time; this report was
in favor of the prayet of the petition, so far as to indemnity the
heirs of general Greene, from demands arising from engagements
and contratts made by him on account of the United States.
A motion was made to refer the papers which accompanied
the petition to the Secretary of the Treasury—some conversation
ensued on this motion ; Mr. Stone said he thought it more proper
to refer them to the Auditor-General ; Mr. Gerry called tor the
reading the paper;—which was done.
The motion for relerring to the Secretary of the Treasury was
adopted.
A meflage was received from the Senate informing that they
have parted a bill for the relief of John Stuart and John D*vidfon,
and a bill for the temporary cftaohfhment of the Poft-Office.
In committee of the whole on the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury rcfpe&ing a plan for the disposition of the lands in the
Western Territory—some progress was made in the difcuflion.
Adjourned till Monday.
LONDON, May 21
WE learn from Mefliua, that on the 3 tft March
at 8 in the morning, the mountain Paci,
■which covers Scylla, on the east fide, fell into
the sea with a horrid crafli. The commotion it
excited caused the waters to overflow the country
for 2 leagues and rife to the top of Sicily. Six
persons perished at Scylla, but the filhermen at
the lighthouse had time to save themselves. It is
supposed that the sea had been undermining it
ever since the earthquake of 1783, by getting in
to the excavations then made.
The Brunfwiek man of war lately launched,
has several couveniencies new to the navy, par
ticularly one, by which the levers of the chain
•pumps may be {hipped and unlhipped with
ease, so as to render all clear ; as alto more liin
ple means of obtaining intelligence of the exaift
draught of water during an ac'tion, without be
-ing exposed to the enemy's fire..
The most authentic accounts from Spain do
not juftify the belief that they have more than
thirteen fliips of the line ready for sea.
Mr. Bruce, the late traveller allerts : With re
gard to cotton, the fineft valliesin Syria, watered
by the cool refrefhing springs that fall from
Mount Libanus, are planted with this flirub; and
in the fame grounds, alternately, with the tree
which produces its filler in manufactures, lilk.
Cotton clothes all Ethiopia ; cotton is the basis
of its commerce with India ; and of the com
merce between England, France, and the Levant,
and cotton flionld be the favourite manufacture,
after wool, of Britain. It will in time, fays Mr.
Bruce, take place ofthat ungrateful culture flax;
will always employ more hands, and be a more
ample field for diltiriguiftiing the ingenuity of
our manufacturers.
On the Bth instant a very cruel murder was
committed in the vicinity of Cork. Richard
Newnham, Esq. and his brother Devbnfhire
Newnham, Esq. went 011 a hunting party near
his feat at Maryborough : One of the neighbour
ing peasantry intreated them nottopafs through
his potatoe ground, as it would ruin him and iiis
family. Devonshire called the poor wretch a
scoundrel for his prefumptioti, anU inftanily
llruck him with his whip, while his brother
Richard inhumanly ft ruck him on the back part
of the head, until they fractured the skull of the
unfortunate man, of which wounds he inftanily
expired. The Coroner's inquest has brought in
their virdidt wilful tnUrder ! They are committed
to prison to take their trial at the next aflizes-
Richard Newnham, who has ever been of * ty
rannical and sanguinary disposition, is in the re
ceipt of 300 CI. per annum ; and his brother, of
20001 A fiinilar example to that of Fitzgerald,
in this country, is much wanting, to reform the
turbulent disposition of the country 'Squire?
NOO'TKA SOUND.
The circum'.tarices of the trade and ficuation
of this part of North America being a matter of
ftich general conversation anil great public mo
ment, we are particularly happy in beingenabled
to give fomc further accouut of the tranfaiftions,
that have happened at Noorka Sound, as well as
to point out the advantages that were likely to
Ve extended to other places by the means of this
irade.
It is neceflary to remark that tlie Ikiu of the
i'ea otter is worn only in the Northern regions of
China. Its fur, though beautiful and magnificent ,
is too heavy for the sultry atmosphere of th<
Southern Provinces.
Pekin is, therefore, the proper mart for this
valuable commodity ; and in this inunenfe city,
rhc consumption is so great, that the produce ot
the voynee meets an immediate sale.
The* Mandarins of the court, and even the Em
peror himfelf, are fond of wearing this costly
fur. To a citizen of common rank, a lea otter s
collar to his vellment is a luxury.
The natives of the north-weft coatt of America,
set so great a value on woolens of all kinds, that
all the blankets, cloths, hats, and stockings, that
could be procured in Chins, if Englilh manufac
ture, were fold to the Indians, with whose chiefs
treaties of commerce had been formed.
An aOt of cruelty committed by an ollicci ot
the Spanifli Admiral Martiney's fliip deserves to
be recorded.
The Spaniards discovering that Callicutn, a
chief, second in authority at Nootka Sound, was
in alliance with the English, he was shot through
the heart in the month of June, 1739. The wife
of Callicum, with an infant child, escaped, but
not till wounded.
Macquilla, the chief, firft in command, retired
at the head of the allies of England, from Noot
ka Sound, and to avoid the cruelty of the Spani
ards, they fled to dill ant parts. Such of the na-
tives as they could seize, the Spaniards condemn
ed to work as leaves on their fortifications.
At this period, it was in contemplation of the
Spaniards to seize the Sandwich ((lands, with a
view to deprive Britifli lhips of refrelhments.
And we further add, on authority that amounts
nearly to demonftratiou, that on the very lands
put-chafed from the Nootka chief by captain
Mears, the Spaniards have already opened valua
ble mines. \
Another objecfl of thisenterprife was, to supply
the markets of Kamfchatka, and other ports be-
longing to the Ruflians, with the teas and other
produce of China. This promised to bean inva-
luable channel of commerce, as the Chinese have
shut their ports against the Ruffians, who former-
ly traded to their markets.
On this voyage of discovery and experiment,
one of our ships failed and disposed of her cargo,
but was unfortunately lod on her return to
China
To these curious particulars we add, with a
patriot joy, that the consumption of the glorious
staple of England, her broad cloths, is aitoni(h-
ingly great in Japan and China: British hard
ware, &c. is also in great request .
From the Friendihip of Tiara to Captain Mears,
ships which touch at the Sandwich I (lands may
depend 011 the utmolt attention and civility.
This Prince is fix feet four inches and an half
high, and of proportionate bulk.
Amoft degrading circumstance, respecting the
insult upon the Britilh flag at St. George's Sound,
has not been yet communicated to the public :—
A Captain Kendricks, commanding an American
(hip, had been trading a considerable time on
thecoaft, and the Spaniards rreated him with the
greatest civility, so that Spain has the temerity to
dare the maritine power of Britain, and yet
truckles to the American Ilripes.
May 1 J.
Yederday his Majedy was pleased to ifl'ue his |
Royal Proclamation for recalling and prohibi
ting seamen and other natural born fubjetfts of
his dominions, from serving foreign Prinres and
dates, and for granting a reward of 20s. for dir.
covering every lea man who shall conceal himfelf.
In a letter received by yederday's poll from
Portsmouth, by a gentleman in the city, particu
lar mention is made, lhat previous to writing, an
incredible number of Jews had arrived there,
and engaged for every empty house in that town.
Common, and Gofport ; and the owners had let
them upon terms of enormous advance, provided
the war should continue. They have even con
t'ra<ffed for building of new houses, as they ap
pear certain of a war, and that it will prove ve
ry advantageous from the amazing riches our
ships of war and privateers most probably may
bring from the South Seas, and other Spanifli fet
tlenients.
By accounts received at Lloyd's upwards of three
hundred fail of merchant ships are expedled to
arrive in the course of this month, which will
furnifh Government with a fufficient number of
seaman to man the ships fitted out.
The ships of war which have been put into
comtniflion, are not only ordered to be manned
with as muchdifpatch as poflible, but victualled.
The Ruffian squadron which is to put to sea
this fununer is conipofed of 31 ships of the line.
THE TABLET. No. GXXXVI
« Those pcrfons who lead a sedentary life fbould
contrive that their amusements be oj such a nature as
to give considerable exercise to the limbs."
I HAVE frequently observed that men of a
studious, contemplative turn of mind lose
tlicir relilh for such amufementsas require bodily
exertion. This is a circumlVance that deserves
to be seriously considered by those whose mode
of life leads them to sedentary habits. Man is a
being formed more for action than contemplation.
He preserves his her Ith, clieerfulnefs and the na
tural vigor of his conititution, in much higher
perfection, while he follows adiive pursuits, than
when he is devoted to study and lotirement.
There is nevfrthelefs a neceflity that some per
sons ihould employ themselves in the acquisition
of literature.
In the eflays of Mr. JVebfter, I find lome exct
lent observations on the fubje<ft now under conl.
deration. After speaking of the ill efteds oftoi
close an attention to itudy, without a fuitabl*
mixture of atflive amusements, he makes the tol
lowing remarks.
" To avoid these ill', much exerctfe oj the arms
and body is not only ufeful but necejfary ; and when
it is not the lot of young per font to labor tn agriculture
or mechanic'arts, fame laborious amufemtnt Jbould tx
543
coufiantly and daily pursued as asa bflitute —auditor.*
is preferable to fencing. . A fencing school is perhaps
as necefary dti inllitntion in a college, as <1 •
fh'ip of mathematics ; for young mm us tally enter col
lege about the age of puberty ; and often leave a la
borious occupation to commence a fdentary life, atthe
very time whin labor or excrcij'e is the mojl ueceffary
to give firmnefr and vigor to their constitutions. In
coujl-iju.'itce of this change, and an academic life, they
ojteu run up into long, slender, effeminate bodies,
which a flight cold may throw into a consumption ; or
by a?: iutenfe application to books, add to a debilitated
frame of body, a weak nervous fflem, which keeps
| them always dying, though it way /iot end life tiU old
a S ! '"
" Four hours of uninterrupted ltudy in a day is
generally futiicient to furnifh the mind with as
many ideas as can be retained, methodized und
applied to practice ; and it is well if one half of
what are runover iiiithis time are not 1011. It may
fometinjes be necefl'ary to study or read more
hoursinaday; butitwillas often be found uie
ful to read /<?/}."
NEW-YORK, JULY 31.
Further accounts by the papers from Ireland,
inform, that the National Aflembly has decreed
that the ancient municipality of the city of Pa
ris, and all the offices connected with it, fbould
be fupprefled and abolished.—Thus a fyjle/n of po
lice is deflroyed which in a great vteafure furntjhed
for so many ages, the vitliriis of defpotifn to the dun -
g eons of despair, in the infernal Baflile. —That
Monf. Fitzjean de St. Colombe had fallen a fa
crifice to the populace.—That the aflembly has
decreed the elections of judges should be by the
people—and that but one fubjetfi fliall be prcfent
ed rothe King for his approbation.—That there
was in circulation of the notes iflued by the
Caifle d'Efcompte i69,i24,ooolivres. The Nat
ional Aflembly has also determined that public
officers other than the judges, shall be nomina
ted by the King ; and hold their offices during
good behavior—none of the members of the pre
sent aflembly to be eligible till four years after
the present feflion.—Members of fu'ofequent as
semblies to be eligible in two years after the fefli
on.—Mr. Lambert director of the Mint at Rouen
has received contributions in plate to the amount
of 409,484 Livres.
A French fleet from the lflands is expected to
arrive at Bodon by the 20th Augud, under the
command of the Right Hon. The Viscount Fan-
tieves Gisn.
At the commencement ia the University of
Cambridge, Maflachufetts, the 21ft indant.—The
degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on for
ty three young gentlemen, and the degree of
Mafler of Arts 011 thirty five.—The degree of
doctor of laws was conferred on the Hon. John
Jay, chief judice of the United States.
Thurfd?y laii there was an Entertainment onboard the fivp Ante-
Tied, Capt. Sarly, lately from Canton, which was honored by the
company of the President of the United States, The Se
cretary of State, Secretary of the Treafurv, and the Secretary at
War, His Excellency the Governor of the State, and a very large
and refpettable company of other citizens.
To comprehend every charge, it is probable that the late war
was anexpence to the people of America of at least 60,000000 of
pounds fieri. The paper money was an effr&ual tax, which has
not cost the government much to collect. What was advanced
during the war was paid rather by fuffcringthe noble cnthufiafin
of the people to tax itfelf, than by the resources of Congress. The
sums paid towards the debts since the peace have been at a great
discount. Perhaps not a (ingle instance Can be given of a dollar
paid at par. The entire remaining debt ks about eighteen millions
iterling, or eighty millions of dollars. It will appear therefore
that the burden of this debt, however heavy upon unfortunate in
dividuals, has been light to the government, as more than two
thirds of the charges of the war no longer exist as debts againfl
the Union. It seems to follow clearly, that altho joftice calls for
a good provision for the existing debt, and it may seem useless to
urge any other motive, yet this claim of judice is enforced by the
above (late of falls. Why should we wifti to dilpute the validity
of it, or object to paying what remains, inasmuch as we have ex
tinguilhed vast sums on such easy terms ?
If it is thought neceflary tofufpend part of the demands of our
creditors, on account of our present inability to pay them : Go
vernment is under every poflible obligation to pledge itfelf to do
them JulljuJiice the moment they arc in a capacity to do it.
Few perlons cultivate the science of Anatomy with ardor in
our country. The rash and odious abuse of it, a few years fincc
in several cities on the continent, by many indiscreet persons, has
given to the public a disgust, and to individuals, a fear of med
dling anymore with human bodies. A wide field is still left for
the exertions of diligence and genius in the pursuit of difcoverirs
by comparative Anatomy. This may be followed without giving of
fence to any person. We are happy to hear of Dr. Post'* beau
tiful difle&ion of the Free-Martin a few weeks ago, and to learn
that his difcovcries nearly agree with Mr. John Hunter's 011.
the fame fubje£l. This we consider as the bed Anatomical per
formance since Mitchell's publication about the abjorbent vejfels.
The Profeffor of Natural History in the Univerhty of Penn
sylvania, Dr. n S. Barton, meditates a great Botani
cal Work. This is no less than a FLORA of the United States,
to comprehend a full account of all the indigenous plants grow
ing therein. The lovers of natural science feel themselves ex
ceedingly glad on this occafiQn, not oniv on account of the curio
sity and ufefulnefsof the performance, but also because the author
is an American. Ij is imagined that by the aHi dance of Mitchell,
Cul!er % Mar[hall y Bartram and other American Botanists, Dr. Barton
will be able in forae years to accomplish his laudable undertaking.
DEATHS.
Died at Weft-Point, the nth inft. after a tedious illness, Capt.
William Price, Commissary of Military Stores.
At Fairfield, Gold Selleck. Si llxmak, Esq. in the A9th
year of his age.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORJC,
Ship Jav, Randal, Canton. 5 months 25 days.
Brig Anthony, Puller, ditto. 6 months.
Bctcy, Bright, Faulkand Islands, 63 days.
Sloop Cynthia, Turks Iflund, 254
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THS SECOND SESSION.
feegumnd held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fouith
'rff January, one thousand (even hundred and ninety.
AN ACT providing for holding a Treaty or
Treaties to establish Peace with certain Indian
Tribes.
BE it enaQid by the Senate and Iloufe of Rsprefentatives rf the Uni
ted States of America in Congrefi ajjemtfled, That in addition to
the balance unexpended, of the i'um of twenty-thousand dollars,
appropriated by the a&, intituled, •• An ast providing for the ex
pcnces which may attend negotiations or treaties with the Indian
Tribes, and the appointment of commiflioners for managing the
fame," a farther Turn, not exceeding twenty thousand dollars,
a riling from the duties on imports and tonnage, shall be, and the
ijme is hereby appropriated for defraying the expences of nego
ci»tin*,and holding a treaty or treaties, and for promoting a friend
ly mtcrcourfe, and preserving peace with the Indian Tribes.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHI.ENBFRG,
Speaker of the Hwfe of Reprefcvlatives.
JOHN" ADAMS, Vice-Prrfidcnt oj the United State}.
and Prc/ident of the Senate
Approved, July the twenty.second, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, P reft dent of the United States.
(TrCe Corv)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State
AN ACT to regulate Tradeand Intercourse with
the Indian Tribes.
BE it enabled by the Senate and Houje of Representatives of the Um
ted States of America in Congress ajjembled, That no person
shall be permuted to carry on any trade or intercourse with the
Indian tribes, without a licence for that purpose, under the hand
and fcal of the Superintendant of the department, or of such other
person as the Prelident of the United States fh ill appoint for that
purpose; which Superintendant, or other p rfon lo appointed,
(nail on application, iflue such licence to any proper person, who
frail enter into bond with one or more sureties, approved of by
the fuperintendant, or person ifTuing such lieence, or by the Pre
sident of the United States, in the penal sum of one thousand dol
lars, payable to the Prefidept of the United States for the time be
ing, for the use of the United States, conditioned lor the true and
faithful observance of luck rules, regulations and reftriftions, as
now are, or hereafter (hall be made for the government of trade
and intercourse with the Indian tribes. The said Superintend
ents and pcrfons by them licensed as aforefaid, shall be governed
in all things touching the said trade and intercourse by such rules
and regulations as the Prcfident shall prescribe. And no other
pci fen (hall be permitted to carry onany trade or intercourse with
the Indians without such licence as aforefaid. No licence shall
be granted for a longer tirm than two years. Provided nevertheless,
That the President may make such order refpefting the tribes lur
rounded in their fettlcments by the citizens of the United States,
as to secure an intercourse without licence, if he may deem it
proper.
And be it further enabled) That the Superintendant, or person is
suing such licence, shall have full power and authority to recall all
such licences as he may have ifTued, if the person so licenf, d shall
transgress any of the regulations or.rdlriftions provided tor the go
vernment of tradeand intercourse with the Indian tribes, and shall
put in suit such bonds as he may have taken immediately on the
breach ot any condition in said bond. Provided always, That if it
ilia II appear on trial, that the person from whom such licence shall
have been recalled, has not otiended againdany of the provisions
of tlvs ast, or the regulations prescribed for the trade and inter
course with the Indian tribes, he shall be entitled to receive a
new licence
And-be it further enabled. That every person who shall attempt
to trade with the Indian tribes, or be found in the Indian country
with such merchandize in his poffeflion as aie usually vended to
the Indians, without a licence tirft had and obtained, as in this ast
prescribed, and being thereof convicted in any court proper to
try the fame, shall- forfeit all the merchandize so offered for sale
to the Indian tribes, or so tound in the Indian country, which
forfe;ture shall be, one halt lo the benefit of the person prolecut
ing, and the other half to the benefit of the United States.
And be it enabled and That no sale of lands made by
any Indians, or any nation or tribe of Indians within the Unitea
States, shall be valid to any person or persona or to any State,
whether having the right of pre-emption to such lands or not, un
less the fame shall be made and duly executed at some public trea
ty, held under the authority ot the United Slates.
And be it further cndfled y That it any citizen or inhabitant of the
V riited States, or ot either of the territorial dillrifts of the United
States, Dial' go in o any town, settlement or territory belonging to
any nation or tribe of Indians, and shall there commit any crime
upon, or trespass againlt, the pcrfon or propeity of any pcaceable
and triendly Indian or Indians, which, if committed within the
jiirifdiftion of any State, or within the juriidiftion ot cither of the
laid diftr fts against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof, would
be punifhjble by the laws of such State ordifl.ift, such offende
or cftcnd<?rs shall be fubjeft to the fame punifliment, and shall be
proceeded againfl in the fame manner, as if the offence had been
commuted within the junfdiftion of the State or diftrift to which
he or they may belong,againft a citizen or white inhabitant thereof.
And be it further enabled, That for any of the crimcs or offen
ces aforefaid, the like proceedings shall be had for apprehending,
imprisoning or bailing the offender, as the cafe may be, and for
recognizing the witnesses for their appearance to tcftify in the cafe,
and where the offender shall be committed, or the witnesses shall
be in a diftrift other than that in which the offence is to be tried,
for the removal of the offender and the witness s, or either of them,
as the cafe may be, to the diftrift in which the trial is to be had, as
by the ast to establish the judicial courts of the United States are
d.rested, for any crimes or offences against the United States.
And be it further eiafleJ, That this ast shall be in force for the
t r;n of two years, and from thence lo the end of the next fellion
ul Congress, and no longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG.
Speaker of the House oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prtjideni ej the United States,
and Prrjtdeut ojthe Senate.
Approved, July the twenty-sscond, 1700
G LOR Gt WASHf NGTON, P,efident if the United States.
(I'nUi COPY.) i
THOMAS JFFFERSON, Secretary of State.
ATES.
PUBIfSHED
LONDON, May 10—1£.
LORD George Gordon, in confcquence ofan
altercation with the gaoler of Newgate, has
been removed from his apartment into the ground
cell, and there confined without bed or furni
ture ! Without deciding 011 the propriety or im
propriety of the gaoler's conduit, every man of
feeling mult lament that his lordfliip is reduced to
so deplorable a lituation.
The immense train of Austrian artillery which
was at Peterwardin palled Vienna on its way to
Moravia the 20th ult. The firft piece palled ai
half pall fix in the mornijig, and it was half palt
two in the afternoon before the whole had gone
by, though not one moment'sltoppage took place
the whole time.
The alfair as Marseilles, according to the best
accounts was hot fa bloody as at firit it was re
prefeuted. The commander of Fort Sr. John
was the only person who loft liis life, and this on
account of some improper expressions two days
after the fort was surrendered. The populace
then renewed the dreadful fcence of Paris during
the firftdaysof the revolution.
A Deputation was lately sent to the Queen of
France from the committee ofrefearches in Paris
to request information with refpejft to the vio
lences committed at Versailles, on the night of
the 6th ofO&ober. Her firft answer was, " 1
will never become an informer against any of
the fubjeifis of the King !" The deputation wait
ed on her Majesty a second time, when heran
lwer was still more emphatic, " I have fein every
thing," laid she—" I unierjlood every thing—and
have forgotten every thing.
On Monday two journeymen flioemakers in
Livei pjol of the name of Griffiths and Wright
ten, agreed for a wager, to try which was the
neatelt and moll expeditious workman, for which
purpose they set to at five o'clock in the morning
and continued with little intennifliou until eight
hi the evening, during which time, the former
made, in a neat and workmanlike manner thir
teen pair and an odd one of children's pumps out
of the rough, with the heel-rans and infoals pro
per ; the latter made twelve pair complete. 'Tis
l'uppofed the grcateft performance ever known
to be done by any ot the craft.
A Mr. D brought his wife before the Ma
gistrates, at the Public Office, Bow-street, for af
faultingand beating him. D gave an account
of the last afiault she had committed on him (for
to enumerate every one would have taken up the
Magistrates time, perhaps, till now.) It was with
a hearth-broom, which the lady thought proper
to break over her hulband's head. He gave an
other proof of tlie happiness he had experienced
in the matrimonial state ; for he declared, out of
fifteen years that he had been married toiler, he
had not three days quiet, owing to her turbu
lent disposition, which had reduced hiin from a
state of independence to poverty. She was com
mitted to Tothill-fields, Bridewell, until Ihe
finds bail for her appearance at the next feflions.
A LINCOLN'S INN FROLIC
TWO young gentlemen who arc studying th'e
law, and who have chambers in Lincoln's Inn,
took a particular fancy the other day to a young
woman who frequented the garden with a child
in her arms. They laid various stratagems to
entice the mother to come into their chambers ;
but she saw the intent, and studiously avoided a
viiitof that kind—At last they thought they hit
upon a scheme that must effeclually bring her in.
One of the gentlemen took the baby in his arms,
and, after killing it, brought it home to his apart
ment. The other itudent followed, and both
now imagined that the woman lnuft naturally
come for her child ; but, as the faying is, " fae
bit the biter" for (he lent the child to their pro
tection, and made the bed of her way home ;
and has taken care to conceal that home from
them. i hey are persons of good fortune, and
have sent the child to nurse. The public may re
ly on our alfertion, that this is afatf.
ANECDOTE.
A Tar, after returning from a voyage for low
wood, having made rather too free with a plank
belonging to the owners of the vellel to which he
belonged, was taken before a justice, and accu
sed of the theft. One being aflced what he had
to fay in his defence, replied " that, aftet ha v.
ing a (lifted to ileal a whole ipioad from the
Spani ards,it was a hard cafe that he could not have
a flank for liis own ufe,witho\itfo much parlavtrV
JNEIV-YORK, July 30.
The latest accounts from Europe inform that
according to the present appearances, the belli
gerent powers of Europe (among which we rec
kon thole preparing for war) may be drawn out
in battle array in the following manner
Great Britain f Germany
1 ruflia j ; Spain
Sweden . against J Ruflia
Ho,lan( ] | 1 Denmark
~ i Italian States
T *1 t! j I The Pope
To wh.ch may be added, France incapable, Por
tugal and Sardinia neutral or doubtful. To con
fer the situation as to men and money of the
544
Ifirit lift a:ut of the last, one would bsapt to ihifsk
there is an amazing inequality, and th.it in favor
of the former. We hive ranked Holland from
its intimate connexion with PruUia and Great-
Britain. Further accounts state,
That the orders which the Spaniards had gi*.
en to be executed for them in London, were coun
termanded ; and the belt informed inercantils
men infer from thence the certainty of a war with
Spain.
That Monf. de Barfet was (he gentleman whs
was facrificed at Marseilles and not Monf. da
Calvet : that accounts from France teem wUH
details of /hocking excelled. Several eminent
chara<fters having recently loft their lives.
That the National Allembly have voted an A<j.
dress to the King, exprefling their refutation that
the nation fliould not be involved in any foreign
war.
The House of Commons of Great Britain have
resolved to permit the importation of Rape Seed,
and Rape Cakes from the United Stares of Ame
rica.
The King of Naples has made a Princely pro
vision for the maintenance of the Count d'/irtois.
He has provided him with a palace, and allowed
him the eftablilhinent of 120 servants.
FOR SALE
The IRON WORKS,
Belonging to the Estate of james hunter, occcared,
pleafanily ficuated on the falls ot Rappahannock. River, with
in two miles of the town of Frederickfburg, and on-of Falmouth
and Tide-Water—ConGfting of a Forge, 130 feet by 54, eigiu
fires, and four hammers—a Coal House, 80 feet by 40—a Slitting
and Rolling Mill, 68 feet by 30, tor Sheet, Rolled and Shi Iron.
A Merchant Mill, 70 feet by 36, with two pair of stones ; one
whereof trench Burr, and every other nece/Tary apparatus for
manufacturing Flour in the best method.—A Saw Mill adjoining
rhe lame, 60 feet by 10. The walls of all these arc ot
stone, extremely and near, of the best workmanship. The
running geers, machinery and fixtures of the whole, commodiouf
iy and judiciously contrived, and performed in the mofl masterly
and advantageous manner, on large and improved plans. The
different departments are conveniently disposed and arranged ct
prop r diftaucts, ou a deep and capacious canal, calculated to
iupply more large and extensive works, and future improvements ;
cautiously seCured and guarded against ciifualtics from frefhets, or
floods ; has its source in the main body of the nvir ; a co
pious proportion whereof, to any reasonable degree of quen' ty,
is at phafure collected and turned in by a compleat set of •/tiJ
conflru6led strong dams, which have not broke, or given way,
since their formation, near nineteen vears past.—The head and
fall of the water operating on the wheels, is about twenty sett:
the greatest part of the works arc in good repair, and the whcJ
may be rendered foat a final I expence. In the appendages there
to, are a convenient Tanyard, variety of shops and utensils for
mechanical bulmefs of different kinds, houses for the Managers,
Workmen, See.— And about 4 to 8000 acres of land contiguous,
mostly wooded, including fomc Farms and meadow laud. MJt }
will be offered for sale, a number of valuable Slaves, lucfra*-ttam
mermen, Refiners, Collier*, Forge Carpenters, Wheelwrights,
Smiths, Millers, Waggoners, See. These works have advantages
over any in America, particularly in refpeft to the sale of their
produce, js there is none of the kind to the southward thereof, to
mofl of which extensive, rich and fertile country, there is easy
conveyance by water ; nor is there any Forge within 90 mite',
nor a Slitting mill at all in this State, which'might share the caf
tom, or vie with its manufactory—fome other peculiar advantag
es that can best be pointed out on the prcmifes, which on applies
tion will be shewn. and the terms of Sale made known, and vety
easy for the purchaser, by
/ irginia, May 28, 1790,
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME or a LOTTERY, for the purpofc of raising Seven Thou
fund Five Hundred rounds, agreable to an ACT of the Lec
ture of the State of New-York, pafled Bth February, 1790.
s c
1 PRIZE of
2
3
io
3°
5®
J2O
180
795°
Prizes, > ,
166,54. Blanks, S 2 5 00 ° ~'ckcts, « 40s. eack, £.50009
L-.n. _ j _ , n- r
Subjeift to a dedu&ion of Fifteen per Cer,t
THEobjca of this LOTTERY being to ra.fe a part of the fan
15"®°"° by the corporation for repairing and enlarging theCI
IY HALL, tor the accommodation of CONGRESS, whichdoM
so much honor to the Architect, as well as credit to the city. Tie
managers presume that their fellow Citizens will cheerfully con
cur in promoting the Cale of Tickets, especially as the fucctfsof
tnii Lottery will relieve them from a tax', which must othcrwife
be laid to rcimburfe the corporation.
The above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very beneficial
t0 adventurers,there not being two blanks to a prize.
1 he Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the Fins*
Monday in August next, or (boner jf filled, of which timely
nonce will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers will be pub
lilhcd at the expiration of the drawing.
I ickcts are to be fold by the fubferibers, who arc appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutenbu r gh, Abraham Herrikc,
Peter T. Curtenius, John Pintard.
New-}ork } St/iMa*c/i^jqo.
fry THE Managers g ivc notice tkat agreeable to an order tftkCm
Potior,, the drawing nj the City-Lottery, u;Utofitively commend*#.
pft Monday in August. (Next Monday.) July i f _
'T'HE Creditors of Col. ELISHA SHELDON, of S>lilbur»>
-k hereby notified, That the Subscribers feeing appointed Tr»&
tee« «f said Sheldon's eftase, will attend to thebufinefs of dwf
appointment on the fjrft Monday of August next, at the house of
Tacobus Davis, in said Salisbury, agreeable toth'e Ast of AffW-
Dly. The intereit of tht creditors requires thcit- general att' 8 "
dancc - HEZEKIAH FITCH, ) Trufl i.. :
• JOHN BIRD. JTrunco.
SjitJbury,(Cotaeßimt/, Jme-2 8, 1789. '
AD<\M HUNTER, or > r
ABNERVERNON. { E « cul °' l
(3 w ->
HEME.
£.3000
1000
50°
200
100
50
SO
io
4
£3«*f j
2000
249®
jfeo
3t£po
j
1500
2000
3OCO
2500