PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 4 i, '.ROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK.
[No. 28, cf Vol. If.j
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA. No. XIV.
4
(Concluded from our hjl.)
*Tis with our judgments as our watches—none
Go Just alike i but etch believes his own,
THAT there is already a fciffion,in the National
Assembly.like all others,paft, present, and to
tome is most certain. There i*
party, a democratical party, an armed neutrali
ty, and moil probably a monarchical party : be
sides another division, who uiuft finally prevail,
or liberty will be loft ; 1 meanafet of members,
who are equal friends to monarchy, ariltocracy,
and democracy, and wish for an equal indepen
dent mixture of all three in their constitution.
Each of these parties has its chief, and these
chiefs are or will be rivals. Religion will be
both the objevftand the pretext of foine : liberty,
of others : submission and obedience of others :
and levelling, downright levelling, of not a few.
But the attention, consideration and congratula
tions of the public, will be the objedt of all. Si
tuation and office will be aimed at by fomeof all
parties. Contests and diflentions will arise be
tween these runners in the fa.ne race. The na
tural and usual progress, is, from debate in the
afl'embly to discussions in print : from the search
of truth and public utility in both, to sophistry
and the fpirii of party : evils so greatly dreaded
by the ingenious " Citizen of New-Haven," to
whoui we have now the honor of paying our firft
refpeifts, hoping that hereafter we may find an
opportunity to make him our more particular
compliments. From sophistry and party spirit,
the transition is quick and easy to falftiood, iin
polture, and every species of artificial evolution
and criminal intrigue. As unbalanced parties ot
every defciiption, can never tolerate a free en
quiry of any kind, when employed against them
selves, the licence, and even the molt temperate
freedom of the press, soon excites refeiument
and revenge. A writer unpopular with an op
pofue party because he is too formidable in wit
or argument, may firft be burnt in effigy : or a
printer may have his office aflaulted : cuffs and
kicks, boxes and cudgels, are heard of, among
ptsbeian ftatefmeu challenges and single com
bats among the ai iftocratic legislators—Riots and
seditious at length break men's bones or ilea oft
their (kins.—Lives are loft : and when blood is
once drawn, men, like other animal*, become
outrageous : if one party has not a superiority
over the other, clear enough to decide every
thing at its pleasure, a civil war enl'ues. When
the nation arrives at this period of the progrelli
on, every leader, at the head of his votaries, even I
ifyou admit him tohave the bell intentions in the
world, will find himielf compelled to form thein
into some military arrangement, both for offence
and defence, to build callles and fortify eminen
ces,like the feudal Barons. For ariftocratical ri
■valries and democratical rivalries too, when un
balanced agaiirit each other, by foine third me
diating power, naturally and unfailingly pro
duce a feudal fyftein.—lf this (liould be thecourfe
in France, the poor, deluded, and devoted parti
zans would soon be fond enough of decorating
their leaders, with the old titles of dukes, mar
quifles and counts, or doing any thing else, to
increase the power of their commander over
themselves, to unite their wills and forces for
their own fafety and defence, or to give him
weight with their enemies.
TVie men of letters in France, are wifely re
forming one feudal system : but may they not
unwifeiy, lay the foundation of another ? A le
eiftature in one afl'embly, can have no other tpr
mination than in civil dillention, feudal anarchy,
or ftmple monarchy. The best apology which
can be made for their freffi attempt ot a sove
reignty in one allembly, an idea at least as anci
ent in France as Stephen BoetiuSyii, that it is only
intended to be momentary. " a f*nate had been
propt&d, it mlift have been formed, tnoft
bably of Princes of .he biood, Cardinals, Arch
bifiiops, Dukes and Karquifles, and all tliefe to
gether would have obllrudted the progress of the
reformation in religion fciid government, an d
procured an abortion, to the regeneration of
France. Penr.fylvjiiia eftabliflied. her fingie ai
fembly in 1776, upon the fame principle. An
appreheiifion that the Proprietary and Ouaket
intercfts would prevail, to the election ot charac
ters dififfcCted to the American cause, finally
prenwsdeiated agnhiA two initiative councils.
SATURDAY, JULY 17, 1790.
Pennsylvania, and Georgia who followed her ex
ample, have found by experience, the necelfity
of a change : and France, by me fame infallible
progress ofreafoning, will discover the fame ne.
ceflity : happy indeed, if the experiment shall
not cost her more dear. That hefubjeft iscon
fidered in this light, by the belt friends of liberty
in Europe, appears by the words of Dr. Price,
lately oublifhed in this aper ' Had not the
; ariltocraticrtl and clerical o*dei»," fays U»at
u sage and amiable writer, " have been obliged
" to throw themselves into one chamber with
" the commons, no reformation could have tak
" en place, and the regeneration of the kingdom
" would have been impolfible. And in future
" legislatures, were these two orders to make
; " diltinct and independent states, all that has
" been done would probably be soon undone.
" Hereafter, perhaps, when the new conftituti
" on, as now formed, )ias acquired strength by
" time, the National AfTembly may find it prac
" ticable as well as expedient, to eftablilh by
" means of a third Estate, such a check, as now
" takes place in the American government, and
" is indifpenfible in the 3riti(h government."
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FROM THE LETDEN GAZETTE
Pubhihcd by Stephen Luzac.
[A Paper that is considered in Europe asthemoft
authentic medium of intelligence—and as such
circulates more extenfivcly than any other
iimilar publication.]
PARIS.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE COLONIES,
Preftntei to.th: National Jiflimbly, in the name oj
the Comtnittee appointed jor that purpose, the l^d
March, 1790.
By Mr. Baknave, Deputy from Dauphiny.
qfce.
THE National Aflembly having, by its decree
of the Bth inft. invited all the French colo-
nies to transmit their wiflies refpe<fting the Con
stitution, the administration, the laws, and in ge
neral refpefting every rfieafurethat may conduce
to their prosperity, has announced that there
should be annexed to its decree, some inftruiftions
necessary to attain this in the surest and most ex
peditious manner. ,
The{e inftrutftions ought to have for tlieir ob
je«ft, the formation of allemblies, destined to ex
press the views of thecoloniei, and some general
points which may serve as the basis of their labor.
In order to know the wish of the colonies, it is
indifpeufably neceflary to convoke colonial al
lemblies, as well in those colonies where none as
yet exifts,as in those where the existing afiemblies
are not authorised by the confidence of the citi-
zens.
The National Afl'embly being obliged to trace
prov i{tonally a mode for their formation, conceive
it necefl'ary to choose the simplest forms, refein
bling the nearest mode which have been adopted
in the colonies where the citizens have freely as
fembled of themselves—in Ihort the molt suitable
to Allemblies, whose principal objedt ought to be
I to prep re plans of a constitution.
These afiemblies will judge for themselves,
when preparing the constitution of the colonies,
what ought to be in future the conipoiition and
mode of convoking colonial allemblies. 1 o prel •
cribe at this time multiplied and complicated
regulations on this head, to do any thing more
tl.an what isabfolutely neceflary, would not on-
ly be running a rilk of committing errors, not
only creating difficulties in the execution, but
would be altering the spirit of the decree pafl'ed
in favor of the colonies, by tracing as it were be
fore hand, the constitution they are invited to
propole.
With these confederations, the National Aflem
bly are of opinion, that the deputation to the firft
colonial allemblies, should be dire<ft, and without
any intermediate degree of ele«£lors.
That it ought to be made by parifha.
That each parifli ought to depute, in proportion
to the number ot acftive citizens ic contains.
That for this convocation, and until the con
stitution is agreed upon, the qualifications oi
an atftive citizen should be, a man of lawful age,
and a freeholder, or if not a freeholder, a ie(i
dence in the pariihof two years, ajid payment of
taxes.
525
CONTINU ED
The rcafons common to all these articles, are
the extreme facility of the execution, their re
semblance to what has been pratflifetl in tHose co
lonies, where the inhabitants of themselves have
formed aflembliea—in fllort, the character of a
pure, diretft and universal representation, which
particularly agrees with assemblies, designed to
prepare plans of a constitution.
It may be added wi'h efpedl to dire-il depu
tation, ttei the popi: ic . . > tl*a rdAonaei is >07
favorable to it, and that this mode of represen
tation is the only one that nature points out', and
which the severity of principles avows, and ought
to be rigoroully observed wherever it is poflible.
As to deputation by parishes, these at this in j
ftant are the only political division in the colo
nies which can conveniently answer the purpose
of representation.
As to the reprefentationbeing proportioned to
the number of adlive citizens, it is the only pof
lible measure that at present offers itfelf, and
which appertains to the principal foundation of
thealfeniblies, which prepare conftitutions—for
these aflemblies exeicifing a right which essen
tially belongs to the people, by no means offer
ing a magistracy or an instituted power, but the
image and representation of the people them
selves, all those who enjoy the right of citizen
lhip are naturally called to ic ; every o.ne ought
to take his place there, were it not for the im
possibility resulting from their numbers, or from
some other motives. The nomination of depu
ties is nothing else to these Aflemblies, than a re
duction which circumstances render neceflary,
and can consequently only be proportioned to
the number of thole who, in a natural order
ought to have concurred in the deliberation*
It will hereafter be seen what precautions have
been taken in order to prevent this form of re
presentation being disadvantageous to the coun*
tr^.
With refpeft to the conditions provisionally
annexed" to rhc qarrfificaiions »fact ch'zcn,
it may be added to what has been said before,
that it is for the general interest of each colony
to multiply the number as much as poifible, and
that the fame number exilfs in each particular
parilh, since the number of their deputies will
be proportioned to that of their aiftive citizens.
It appeared, however, that for want of freehold
ellate, the limple condition of taxation would
not be fulTicient, and that in colonies where ma
ny people refidebut for a short time, and with
out any design of fixing themselves there, the re
sidence of two years appeared indispensably ne
celfary to confer the qualification of an a<flive ci
tizen on a taxable, not a freeholder.
This disposition is one of those which will
contribute to protect the country againll the pre
dominant influence of the cities.
The proportion of the number of deputies to
that of adhve citizens, cannot be the fame in all
the colonies. The difference of their populati
on is too considerable, and alt ho the bell peopled
colonies ought to have the mod numerous colo
nial allemblies, it is impoflible to eftablifli this
proportion to the number of their citizens.
The number ofdeputiestoeach colonial aflem
bly ought to be fufficiently large to authorize the
confidence of the colony, and that of the mother
country ; it ought to be fufficiently confined so as
not to become too heavy a charge to the people,
and that the celerity of operations, which every
circumstance renders desirable, may not be re
tarded.
The National Aflembly are of opinion that the
colonial aflembly of St. Domingo, to which is at
tached the uninhabited Islands of la Toriue, la
Gonave and la Nache, ought to consist of about
one hundred and fifty deputies.
It has conceived that this result may be obtain
ed by appointing one deputy for every hundred
active citizens, with the following modifications.
The deputation being made in eachparifh dif
tintftly and separately, justice requires that the
least parish fliould not be unrepi efented, and
consequently ought to appoint one deputy, even
though the number of its citizens fbould be be
low one hundred.
With respect to such parishes as (hall contain
more than one hundred citizens, it has appeared
juflthat the number which (hall be found above
the complete hundreds, ihould be entitled to a
deputy, even though they Ihould be fifty and.
less, feeing it is equally near the number where
the deputy is fully due, and that where there is
no pretentions, the l«nefit of representation and
("Whole No. 132.]that which in the colonics is particularly due to
the country, ought to determine in favor of the
me a Aire
It is evident thatthefe two latter difpenfijtions,
as well as tiiofe which, relnte to the qnalification
of an active citizen, are ail on the iide of the.
country, arul tend to re-eitablifh in cheir favor
the jult proportion of influence they ought to
enjoy with th? town. .
LONDON, April 10
A PERSON at Bath was lately found hanging
in his bed-chamber. The coroner's inqueu
* from foinecircum(lance9of the deceased's llate of
tnind, the day preceeding this melancholy event,
were rather doubtful how they could, with pro
pnety, bring in'a verdidt of lunacy, when they
were determined by the remark of one of the jury,
a taylor, who archly ohferved, " That the decea
fedmull have been insane, for he had paid him
the day before a bill that had been owing only
three months.
An easy and effectual way roprevent Slugs get
jnginto Fruit Tree*, &c.—lf the trees are itand
aids, tie a coarse liorfehair rope about them,
about a foot from the ground.
If they are ngainft a wall, nail a narrow flip of
coarse horse-hair cloth against the wall, about a
foot from the ground—they will never get over
it—andifthey attempted.it would kill them, as
their bellies are foft, and the points of the hair
would wound them.
The rife of rent of is. pr. acre, would inrreafe
the rental of the lauds of England in the sum of
i,600,0001.
Exportation of products and manufactures is
what brings in wealth to a nation, and is the
great advantage of an active trade. All countries
in refpe<ft of riches may be mod accurately jud
ged of by this criterion—their wealth must be in
proportion to their exportation. The example of
Spain and Portugal may teach us tliat importation,
even of gold and silver, and diamonds, will not
enrich a country, since those valuable articles
presently bccoine the property of indult'rious na
tions, who export products and manufactures
This branch of trade is what receives the great eft
encouragenientamong commercial nations—par
licnlarly by a proper regulation of duties, laying
heavy ones on the importation of moll commodi
ties, and light ones on the exportation of them,
or, in some cases, none at all, and in others, giv
ingbounties to promote it.
It was a usual obfdrvation of the celebrated
Boyle, that if every artiil would but discover what
new observations occurred to him in the exercise
of his proteflion, piiilofophy would thence gain
innumerable improvements. It may with equal
jnltice be observed, that if the nfeful knowlege
of every country, however barbarous, was glean
ed by a judicious observer, the advantages would
be ineilimable. Are there ilot, even in Europe,
many ufeful inventions known or praJtifed hut
in one place ? For instance, the inflrument used
lorcQtnng d»v»n corn in Germany, appears to be
much more handy and expeditious than the fickie
used in other countries. The cheap and expedi
tious manner of making vinegar without previous
fei mentation is known only in a part of France.
If such d ifcoveries remain Hill to be known at
home, what funds of knowledge might not be
collated in countries yet unexplored, or only
'pafledthrough by hafly travelling
Mat Iy, 13
Government is fai l ro have received (lie so.
lowing important advice from our Consul at tin
Court of Spain, viz. that,an alliance, olfenfive and
defensive, his just been solemnly ratified between
the King of Spain and Sardinia, the Empress of
R»i(iia< and the States of Venice, in order to re
fill by force the present politics of the Bi itifli and
Prufiian cabinets.
The infurance*from London to the Wf ft-Inilies
is now done at ij pr. cent.
Extra'l of a letter from Harwich, May 2.
"On Friday lad the nored r. u ,l Jones, lately
an Admiral in the Ruffian service, landed from a
*Boat at this place. Being dreiled in the
Ruffian uniform, his perfori was not recognized
till after his baggage was sent to the custom house
tor examination, when the outside directions of
rtne or two parcels caused the difcovcry. The
populace, having gained information of his arri
val, f nrrounded the inn where he was and were
not (paring in denouncing their resolution of ex
em ling vengeance upon him, if they laid hold of
him—ln consequence of which he privately es
caped out of town the fame day.''
A comparative statement of the English and
Span!fix navy, made by a correspondent, and, we
Jincerely hope,ffounded in truth, makes the num
ber of the former 264, of the latter 145—a ma
jority of 119 in favor of Old England.
The 24th being the earliest day on which it is
expected that themertenger from Spain, with his
Catholic Majefly s answer to the renionflrances
of the British Ministry, can arrive, nothing cer
tain, relative to our present dispute with the
Spaniards can be pronounced.
(Toll? ccntiniud.)
TIIE TABLET. No. CXXXII.
ii There is no quarrelling with a public vibt, when the cujlon ofoftnd
ing.ukcs away the fkame of it? 9
THE sting of reproscH c«if> never penetrate deeply, when a nan
enjoys theconfcioufm Is that his neighbours are not less vici
ous than himfdf. • Perhaps a prfon frttiom has an easier task to
perform, than to makr ysrrfls with his owu confdience for any
tranfgreflion that does not expos- him to a lois of property or
character. The sharpest pimgs< f remorse therefore are n>t usual
ly excited but by a commifTi n\ of such crimes as are the least com
mon and consequently the (fjoft detested. M« n generally eftima:e
the malignity of any »&ion, not so much from its inherent nature,
as from the ciegrce of indigna on it ratfrs in the public mind. As
people in the higher walks of life give the tone to public fentitnenis
i! will of courfc happen, that such vices as offer the feweft tempta
tions to them will be considered of the most arocious class.
1 have often listened with fur prize to the reinonllrances of Cler
gymen against certain fathionable vices or follies which they were
disposed to restrain. Reproof can ne-er take effect where it ise
qu*lly applicable to * number of pcrfons. Those who at-'
tempt to check the career of eftabhlhed errors, by mere reproach,
'areufting against the current of human nature. If the sense o
ftiame is (binned, ridicule muillo-feits fdge ; If habit has render
ed any vice familiar, and general practice has changed its odiou.<
appellation, thcie can be little hope that fcrious admonition, spe
cially aimed against that vice will abate is prevalence. In such a
situation, J ftirtuld fuppofc. that a reformation rfiould be attempt
ed irt fomc iti3iicd People may gradually be induced to
believe that * 'ditfrrcj* juodc o! uooduft Ironi that they are pur
fu rug may be more «figii>Jr, as it may afford them n»oj*e fatisfa&>-
on and expofcthem to lif.inconvcn encc. Virtue maybe dreJTed
in such color* as by being frequently exhibited will imp rceptibly
win the heart in its favor. By this ire ins the getteraldifpofifion
to oc vicious will abate, and in time the moll fafhibnable vices
may take a turn that will moderate their exceffis, Public cu
stoms rannot be trifled with. Thev may be changed by art and
management; but thty cannot suddenly be controled bylaws, or
iileuced by reproaches
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESEN TA TIVES.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 7.
Sketch of the Debati, in Committee of the rohiie on
the RESIDENCE Bill. '
MR. BURKE made foiie remarks ou the obfervitioiis of Mr
Vining, in which hr enculpated himfelf from ail clefign to
excue mobs and tumiilt»_si»nng the cifzem of New-York as had
been insinuated by that jcnileman : He declared that he believed
the citizens incapable oTkehjving so much out of charaQcr lor
himfelf, he difcla.med rvrry filth idea. He further observed th«t
th-delegates from Pinnfyf-anu were fully comp-tcnt to advo
cating the mtcreft of then particular State ; thtv had s ivcn abun
dant cvidence.i.f their abilKici—ihty therefore did not need ih"
afiithnceof the from Delaware.
Mr. Hartley obfarved that it was the fault of the Mew-York fe
nators, last year, that they did not vote for a 4 year's residence in
their own city, and thi peimanent one at Gcnmniawn, which
jhey could then have Wr Jle defends I—'-if
lea ucs Imm anycharge ot .van. ot gcncrolity, and also defended"
the cha.aQer ofthe Onakcr.. The gentleman, (Mr. C) i, not ac
quainted. faidhc, with the people called Quakers, or tneir hiftorv
or he would entertain different fen. imcn.s conccrnin- th rn
They unde. the famous William Penn. fettled the former
bc ' wc r/ h /> car ,f,Bo3nd '690, near
theclofeofthel.lt cymmy-and fu.T, was the,, jufticc, w.ld«m,
moderation, and S »od policy, that they gained reputation abroad
Men emigrated from the European world to this land ol Freedom
They pref.j-ved peace at home, for it was not until the year .
when a war, fomented on the borders of anothc, oroWnce, t m
an inhabitant,' l Pen,WY .van. a was killed b* the hands of a Uv« f
They have been always remarkable for their moral laws, for the
plainncfsof th. »r manners, and their benevolcnce
Nay Ihould the gentleman goto Philadelphia, he will find that
the people called Quakers will treat him as well as any other to-
upon XT r!l slot the C " T(n W bich haVC becn (of thrown
Mr. Blood v/oith tnought that if the New-York senators had
afled wrong, yet the jcopU fl-puld not be blamed for it. The
proportion of Mr Burke wa.foreafon.ble and,,.ft, that he said
he could not avoid approving of it.
Mr. Lawrance defended the New-York Senators, and explain
ed hereafons of their former conduit, which, when itwasknown
he believed would rather merit the approbation of the people _
He then proceeded to remark upon the condud of New-Yo k
during the war, and fir.ee He, revenues had been thrown into
'K y A J nUed S ' a ' C! ' and cvt, y succour that could
poffibl ybe expend was received from her, Upon the whole
he Wished the d.fputeof residence could be left to the decision of
he three northern and tine southern Uates-aml he appealed to
the house. as p01it.c.a.,9 and men, for the justice of the cafe
Mr. Vi adfworth rose next. He «» 1 'e
called to order. After some altercation on the quetton of order'
Mr. Page spoke to the merits ofthe quell,on, in which he in
roduced fever, n | concilia,*, y observations, and then added As
J Jj- the permanent residence of Congr.ls, anv unrfre
judiced dilintcrefted man in the worlrl ui-in t *
Philadelphia, it is not my will, £ *0 fnd ft^'.hr,^
frntto' 1 die 1 W ' th ' nV Col '"' uc l' Mr MadifonfthTtYcon"
ent to go there to get into a more central position, and to be fa.r"
yon our way to the permanent refidcnce on the Potowmac a!
toour present fituauon the citizens of New-York ih-mfelve's act
[ proper for the permanent residence, it mu (t be improper for Vh"
ATef«d ;fb C y n the f^r~ t m^r^ f8 K ,I "f' haS b -"
thata removal to the permanent ref.dence woulduke'pla^foo' 0 "
i> Congress fat here, than at some other place mo e central t"
r W e^th n err v T CU,ZenS " k—
nnnds ; there is not a city it th- world iV if' V"" 1 '" 1 "> iheir
er trull my ft If, and Congress, than in New-yorfc f °° n '
or to any place I know, for the o, derly ,nd dvnt ZL ■
i s inhabitants : but fir, when .he meJ.k- i.i T behaviour of
who alluded 10 me, when he was lad up'fa.dTnauh
lured and robbed bv Co ns ,ef s T told hf™ r j V wcre ln
in ,„e chair '
I confrfs I w , s fliocked to hear that gentleman'* 1
repeated by a member on the o. her fide of the Touf/, th ""?/-
520
inark»bje for his coolness and his peculiar attention
timent offered in debate (Mr. Gcrfy). [ t00k "..., ° CVc 'yfen.
the houfeadjourued, to tell that gemleman, Berhar,,' , e " y, , wh «i
what I thought refpefling those decl ration! sis 1, . "'Vi
the member behind me, any offence, I ast their
dill think I should have done my duty, had I takenr, : l)ul *
impropriety of their declarations, ,n my place in the' Iht
si lend to order and fieedom of debate. ' 11 1
Mr. livermore said that the motion for ftrikingoutthe n
mac and inserting Baltimore, is so rcafonable m itfclf ,i , ow "
not conccive there Ihould be one person opposed t„ i, , c,n
ferved that Baltimore isas far fouih as the Potowmac !'k b "
bers will then have as far to go to one as the other n mtm "
vent is said, which rum 200 miles into the country J , Ir ~ '
Allegany mountains—what advantage can this be tor "J ll "
can conceive of none ; except it may be to I, nd the ast! rJ. ? '
grefs by u-attr, to the foot of the Allegany moutyams H°l °T
thai the centrc of population was the only true centre
pretended thatthe Potowmac is at preferri.thii centre' l! U ° W
4 thal 'J Wl!l ' time bL »>®c the centre of populJT™ ", ls
reason it there for any such supposition ? The Dlare in i. V
favor Me fpotis, has been as long fettled as any'other pT, '.'h*
Continent but the population has not kept pace with ™ hc
parts of the United States ; it is therefore egfirelvT m "" y , other
problematical, whether it ever will become the centre o«« ','" d
on. He then enlarged on the superior advantages ofa^ P "
<ity for the feat of government, and concluded by rmrJ f
th - amendment is so rcafonable in itfclf, ,h at fc e hon rf
member of the committee would vote for it.
Mr. Gerry : In difcufling thi» yeflerday, I —j. . .
• such arguments as appeared to me pertinent to the occX o
Sir. thofc arguments have had the mod extraordinary CMtiTft™'
put on them, by the gentleman from Deiaware-they have t°"
f.-prefented as tending to excite mobs, and to mfc iDfuireftil'"
in this cty. Sir I infill that the obfervattons I made, had aT
r a contrary tendency-1 said that the bill contained thofem,!?''
!h "a Vk had J ' Ireft tcndfnc y t0 agitate and uiftmc
the minds of the citizens of America. Thofc principles I v.r ™
deavonng to to (hew what mull be their
Is this exciting mobs ? Directly the re\erfe in my
n ver had any such idea; and as to the citizens of Xev.'.Yoit 1
have too jiiß a sense ol their wisdom and good judgment n h!r
bor such a entiment. He then adverted to the conftimiion t
hew thdt t.iei e could be no danger of an lnfuncftion or id e "','
againll the government ; Congref. is veiled with a 1
i to piotetf themff Ives from every insult whatever, thtv i
ngl t toe,ll forth the whole nnlniaof the union for
te^ion.-—Here Mr, Gerry was called to order, and for.it alter
ation enfuin?, Mr. Gerry said he would fay nothing fuither o„
n» party ular topic. lie then proceeded lo Sijtehu
as-a nll ihe P.nrev-mae. in thecouifeof which lie n fed U c
0 > rvations winch had fallen fioin Mr. and M' Clviwi
Onco, the gcfitlemen had Aid ,h..t « Pennfylvm.a h:d a right t'»
'!><.<at ottue generaUovernment," this he dcn.ed, he said „■
laiein the union could.pietend to such a right; C«n»refs aluc
?K* tght to determine wWe the f,at of goveir.meiii Iht I!
" entered into a .i«Mliy d.tulpon on the merits of tfic Poir,*
T .l' amo "S many other obfervjtions asserted that »km-r.,
11 L°" ,4n would amount to a difqUal.ficatio» ol «,)»,.
ot the Northern Members, who would for«o their ek-Qton ra
M a,te " d thenat " ,n 'l legifTarnre on that River.
i . V lomg read a report of a committee of the late Cowrt,f.
eiprcting two feats of government, in which report j
to'expUin"" Ge,Ty bC '" g ° nC ° f lh " COm """« h
r . Mr - in a fpreeh of confideraUe length dated hisn' .
jeotons tp so Southern a fituatibn as either Baltiinoie or the Po
ni mac, and said that he Ihould have the imhappinefs be fe»red,
I of dividing on the quedion from his colleagues.
offered some calculations refpefling ih, .1
and He R.<Uim4te to he the near«d tea »iie cjm
p ace thnt i >ecn m ?nnof)ed.
Mi. / itc said hc no idea of alteri no the fentimmts of a
ln £ e -r»chiher of the committee; he did riot rxpeft the reiiilt
man from New-Hampshire would agree with him-lhc gcr !t
---'n n rom .vlaiJd-hufars has fjid fomethinff about the govern
men going into the wiMerftefs ; he said it was true that there wa*
not ai p c cut every accommodation which gentlemen might vo!b,
Dut there is every probability that there wi) be—he said trat
uc , improvement arr making in the'naviga .on of the Pot w
'T'a J l3 % render tt a place affording every Kc©Xßincd.moi :
,i 1 n r 5° 'here or not—he inlbuccd fcveral phtes od
nc i otowmac which are at this day fufiicicntly populous so ac
uimmo ate Cotigrefs. He then advened to fitJ4»ion and » :<-
lcrvcG that a line from the Atlantic, East and Weft, to the extreme
P° ,M mentioned in the bill, will iaterfeft part <>l the States of
. C,l m a c ,* n j ' ,c ""Jerfcy ; include the whole of Pennsylvania
na i aiy and,and will throw 31 members of the reprcieDtalion n
1 K 1 oun,ern d,v »fion of tli- United Stales, so that the calculations
n is point in rtfpe£tto liaitiniore fall to the ground ;he then
w ' r\, a^tfl P rc f c nt ferment is subsided, this pofmoft
1 c considered as a permanent bond of union, and the Eaftem
i S| W i ' *[ lc ' r m ost efl<*ntial intereAs promoted by the mea
' ' a( verged to the of Mafiachuf fts which be said was
Sr Cr mi , lr S ,n,a to the whole union besides ; the Southern
si SWI e c ord»al in promoting their (hipping, and advancing
cn liiterefts when they observe that the principles of iuftice in-
Huence them on chic great national
in ft Cn rc , ma,^ 041 theobfervation of Mr» Sherman refpefi
law, and reprobated the principles 011
fin ,C '\ UC tTV ® t j ons are founded ;he remaiked on the atfrac
• »-° P°P U ous cities, and truftrd that other id as would previil
counti y than what inllueuced in fixing the feats of govern
ment in Europe. 6
r ' C.) said he was in favor of the motion, as the
•rr »- -r^ C IC t l ° ut a of ever fixing on a South
"l c nce • enlarged on the difficulty and improbability of
vci .(moving fiom:Phi!adelphia, he said thai it was evident from
nepretentreprefentatmnand what is most likely it will be 10
r *. S , ,e Jl cc ' !, l on g r ffs could not be removed from that plate:
M h" "j 0 * 1 * "umbers of the mernbeis to flic Southward and
No. • Conyrt rhar
f ~,' I .' et x P' rat ' on of 10 years, may think entirely dif*
Ihe l'- ' o | n r P re^cnt » w not think themselves bound by
i«--A K W ."T /1 thev ftould, what can the measure he den' mma
hft fr.n- C « rl !J at ' n S for /he next century—a system propoferi ike
c ion which combined a much greater interest thin thr present,
p,. l, ' a,UI w j lat have we to fuppofc that this bill will
I rr e c j"'ried into execution ;he said no gentleman pretends ,
f pl«tce proposed us now ready for the reception of the go
ttnment , and even if the buildings were now erected, is there
y gentleman who would give his vote for going there ? fcfr would
* T , V° J P| acc in the neighborhood of Baltimore, and this he fup
-1 il. V f S Southern position the gcntlemtif from the
a ward will ever consent to. From all the views he could take
r b e , mca f ure, » ' ie was fulJy convinced that the Potowmac was
u e to the bill meerly to can y Philadelphia j he wished gen
(men i«noufly to consider the consequences of palling a iaw
v ye i would so intimately and inaufpicioufly affect the interefls
ot so many people.
Mr. ivludifon objected to the motion for inserting Baltimore,
as it would be riflfrng the bill with a place which has already
r^P eateri 'y [fjefted in the S. nate ; he religiously believed he
ai , that if Baltimore was inserted, the bill would never pafc the
senate ; and the fate of the bill which the gentleman mentions,
ought to be a furious warning to us never to risk this with £Q
a nendment—the instance therefore produced by thegentfenian
v cry much againfl his own argument.SAtURDAY, JULY o.
POST OFFICE BILL
The Senate proposed an amendment by which th; tranfiniflion
of news-papers through llie medium of the Pod-Office, was to be
under such regulations as the Post-Master-General Hull efUblifh ;
and with such abatement of postage as may be ncceUary for the ca
fy conveyance of information to the citizens of the United States
disagreed to.
This amendment was «ppofcd by Mr. Gerry and Mr. Burke,
on this ground ; that it carried with it the plaincft outlines of a
system to establish a court Prejs and court Gazette 1 To give this pa
per a currency and circulation through all parts of the union, in
total dtfeouragement, and exclusion, through the Poft-Officc,
of every other paper, if the admmiftration thought proper to do
(o, in cafe of any of thole contests and jarings, which often hap
pen between the admintliration and thepeople in a government
Jikeours. They urged that the Post-Master-General isauthonf
ed, by this chute, to put in praflice a management of this nature,
to circulate the papers and publications of one printer, with Juch
abatement of pojiage, and to discourage the others under such unijoim
regulations as he may Mini proper to e/lablifh. [N. Y. Journal 1
WEDNESDAY, JULY 14.
The House took up tbe amendments of the Se
nate to the bill for fettling the accounts between
the United States and individual dates.
rhey disagreed to the amendments, and ap
pointed a committee confiding as Messrs. Sedg
wick, Wadfvvorth. Boudinot, Firzfimons, and
WiHjamfon,' ta coiifer with the Senate.
The memorial of General Donald Campbell,
being taken into consideration, the prayer there
of was rejected.
Mr. Smith of rs. C.3 obtained permifiion to
introduce a bill, making farther provision for the
support of LigTit Koufes in those Hates which
have not yet ceded them to Congress.—The bill
\vas read a firit and second time, and ordered to
be engrofled.
i he bill making farther provision for the pay
ment of the debt of the United States, was read
a l'econd time and made the order of the day for
to-morrow.
THURSDAY, JULY i J.
The bill for amending the ast for the eftab
li/hment and support of Light-Houses,< Beacons,
and public Piers, was read the third time—and
palled.
The report of the joint committee, refpedting
the time of adjournment, which had been agreed
to by the Senare, was taken into confiderution—
and the time extended from the 15th to the 27th
July inft. The report was then agreed to.
A meflage was received from the Senate, in
forming the house that they had appointed a
committee of conference on the disagreement of
the two houses in refpetl to the bill for fettling
the accounts betwean the United States and in
dividual Stales.
Mr. Brown of the committee appointed for the
pnrpofe, reported 3 bill to enable the officers and
soldiers of the Virginia line of the late army on
to obtain titles to cer
tain lands in the Western Territory, which was
read the firft and second time, and referred to o
committee of the whole on Monday next.
Mr. Gerry reported a bill for ascertaining and
cftablilhing the fees and other emoluments to
which the consul* and vice con fills of the United
States shall be entitled—which was read the firft
;ind second time—and made theorderof the day
for Monday next.
In cotnniittee of tbe whole on the bill making
further provision for the public debt of the Uni
ted States. The bill being re-ad—a motion was
made that the Committee (hould 1 ifc in order to
briny in a new Import Law, that the new duties
proposed by the bill,in addition to the old, might
be united, and made fpecific in one bill. This
motion was supported by Mr. Smith, (S. C ) and
Mr. Sedgwick—lt was opposed by Mr. Jackson,
Mr. Madison, Mr. Page, and Mr. Hartley.
This motion was negatived.
The bill being gone thro with, the committee
rose and reported the fame to the house, without
amendment.
A variety of motions were made, and fo:ne of
them after debate withdrawn. A motion to add
a clause for repealing the fetftion in the Impost
law, which limits its duration to the year i 796,
was debated till the adjournment, without coin
ing to a decision.
FRIDAY, JUNE 16.
A me fTfgc was received from the Scuate informing the House
that liif Pi indent of the United Stnes has this day.given his aCTent
to the for establishing thetcmporary and pctin»nent feat of
the government of the United Stales.
The bill making further provision for the public debts of the
Un t d .States—was taken into confidesa'ion by the House.
Mr. lit jiimons p-opofed fevcral additions, lome of which were
agreed 10 —among others,
A drawback on sprits distilled from mnlafTcs, exported out of
the United State*, of 3 cents pr. gallon, and
A claule 10 lemit the duties which accrued in the time that r
lapfed between the Jmpoll law's taking place, and the officers ot
the United Swies entering on their office ; and to refund those du
ties which were paid on*account of the United Slates, under fnch
cirrumftant'es.
On motion of Mr. Lawrance a clause was added, laying a du
ty of ccutson foreign cables, cordage, yarns, 13c.
On motion of Mr. Brown, a duty o: oue ccnt per pound waj
laid on far,tfuti all other lead imported.
On motion of Mr. Wadsworth, an additional duty of five per
cent, was laid 011 all colored cotton goods ©t foreign manulatture.
On motion of Mr. Fftiliiaons a clause was added, to repeal the
feflton of the Impost law, which limits its duration to the )Cai
a 796—6 — and to continue that, and the new impost, till tbe sums lor
the refpettive duties are laid, ihall be difch2rged—Alfo, to
empower the I.cgiAaiure of the United Stales to fftablilh other
funds of equal value, fn cafe tke present should be found iuconve
nitnt,or unprodutti e.
It wa> th-n oidcrcd that the bill be en?ro!Tcd for a third read
ing on Monday next. Adjourned tilt to-morrow,^
laws of the united states.
PJBL ISHEJ>
/VJ \ir- n rrc r> r- t.... r >.r
CONGRESS OF THE Uh'ITJW STATES :
AT THE SECOND *JS.«ION.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fourth
day of January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT to establish the temporary and perma'-
nent feat ofthegovernment ps the United States.
BE it rnaled by the Senate and Honje of Rtprefentatiw of the Unifd
States of America, in Congress aJJem'Atd, That a of ter
ritory, not exceeding- en miles fquirc. to be located as hereafter
pt«sr*>rtwe#ti thernoutlir.
of the eastern brancn and Connogochegue, be,and thefame is here
by accepted for the permanent f.-at of the government of the Uni
ted States. Provided nevertheless, that the operation of the laws of
the State within such diftrift lf.aH not be affected by this accept
ance, until the time fixed for the removal of the government there,
to, and until Congress shall otherwise by law provide.
And be it further enaftid. That the President of the United
States be authorised to appoint, and, by Cupplying vacancies hap
pening from refufals to ast, or other causes, to keep in appoint
ment, as long as may be neceflary, three Commissioners, who,
or any two ol whom, Ihall, under the direftijn of the President,
lurvey, and by proper metes and bounds detine, and limit, a dif
tri£l of territory, under the limitations abovementioned ; and the
diflri£t so defined, limited and located shall be deemed the dif
tn£l accepted by this ast, tor tile pet m«uiLiit feat of the govern
ment of the United States.
Andhe it enacted, 1 hat the said cohimiffioners, or any two of
them, thall have power to purchase, or accept such Quantity of
land, on theeaftcrn fido of the said river within the said diftiia,
as the President (hall deem proper for the ute of the United States ;
and according to such plans as the President ihall approve,the (aid
commissioners, or any two of them, Ihall, prior to the firft Mon
day in December, in the year one thoula.,a eight hundred, pro
vide Tunable buildings for the accommodation or Congress, and
of the P efident, and for the public offices of the government of
the Uirtt d S,ates.
. li'd be it eniicled, That for defraying expence of such nur
chafea and buildings, the Prclident ol l'ic United States be autiior
ifed and rrqueded to accept grants ot money.
And be i'.enaFted, That ptior to the fiift Monday in December
next, all offices, attached to the feat of the government of the U
inted States, Ih ll be removed to, ar.d, until the fiid firft Monday
in December, in the year one thousand eight hundred, shall re
main at tbt city of Philadelphia, in the S<aie of Pcnnfylvania, at
which place the ftflion ol Con -rafs nc..t enf'iinz tiic ptefent Ihall
be held.
And be it enafled, 1 hat on the said firft Monday in December, in
the year one thousand eight hundred, the feat of the government
of the United States shall, b/ virtue of th;, atl, be transferred to
tbe dift.ift and place afor'faid, and ail offices at ached to the fa d
feat iti.t,.hai! trtutngi/W rc.i.ovailh-ieto by their
refpiftivc hold: rs, and (hall after ihe said diy, cease to be exer.
'"'fed clfewhete—and that the nciertary exp nee of such lemoval,
shall he defrayed out of the duties on imposts and tonnage, of
which a fufficient sum is hereby appropriated.
IREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker i\fthe House of Representatives,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prefieter.t of the United States.
and President oj the Semite.
ArrsoviD, July thj sixteenth, 1790.
GEORGt WASHINGTON, President oj the United Stales.
(Tiui Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of Stale.
LONDONDERRY. (Ireland) May n.
Mr. Cox, the American CQiiftrutfor of our
Bridge; has commenced the work, and his men
proceed in the business with a spirit, alacrity and
industry unknown to the workmen of some other
countries- We have the pleafureof hearing,
that the Mayor and Corporation,-in a few days,
intend to give their fan&ion to the happy com
mencement of this great undertaking, by being
present at the Gnking of the firft pier.
RICHMOND, July 7.
Yesterday afternoon arrived in this city from
the Creek Nation, Col.Marinus Willet, accompa
nied by Col. Alexander M'Gillivray, the great
King of the Creeks, with 30 other of the princi
pal Chiefs, Head Men, and warriors of that nati
on, on their way to the residence of the general
government, for the pUrpose of forming treaties
of amity with the United States.
PORTSMOUTH, July 8.
On Monday the 20th ult. »t Pittsfield, in this
Hate, as Mr. Abraham Drake was falling trees, a
limb unfortunately fell on his head, and put an
end to his existence.
y\t Newchelter, in this flare, on thtf 29th nit.
about 9 o'clock in the morning, Mr. Ebenezcr
Ferrin, having loaded a gun very deep, with a
muiket ball and fix large cut fliqt, in order to fire
at some Eagles by the fide of*Newfoundpond—
in difchargingthe contents, the gun burlt, and a
piece of the barrel entered his left temple, about
an inch and a half deep, to the brain : He was
alive thenext morning, but his life was dilpaired
of—he is about 35 years of age, and has a wife
and four children.
BOSTON, July 12.
Saturday last arrived here Capt. Difmore, in
38 days from Lisbon.—The day before he failed,
a Packet arrived there from Falmouth, with an
account they were fitting a large fleet, and that
WAR was inevitable. But the day he failed, it
was currently reported, that the dispute between
Spain and Great Britain was likely to be fettled.
527-
'ATES,
KEW-YORR, JULY 17, 1790.
The (hip Maryland, Cape. Rose, is arrived at
Georgetown from London—Accounts by this ves
sel are to 15 May.
011 the 2d of May, the inhabitants of Mar*-
attacked the citadel of chat place, af.er
iummoning M. Calvert, to surrender—to which
he pel'fidioufly replied by a discharge of 12 pie
ces of cannon, which killed twenty-two persons.
The place was immediately ailaulted and carried.
The garrison, confilting of 5000 men, laid down
their arms. M. Calvert was hanged in the breach
and his head stuck on a pole and carried through
the city. Four hundred and seventeen perlong
loft their lives in this affair.
The gabelles, or monopoly of fait, being novr
fupprelled by the National Assembly of France,
our vessels returning from that country, will be
free to purchase fait in any port. Some little
time will probably be neceflary to reduce it to
its just price. M. Richier, a member of the Af
femhjy, said in the debate on the fubjedt, that it
was so abundant on the coasts of that kingdom,
as to be worth but about a denier the French
pound, which would be about 7 cents the Ameri
can hundred weight.
ExtraCl of a letter froj/t Stocfbridge, July 9.
The Commissioners from the State ofVermont
have been here, agreeable to appointment—but
the gemlenieu from Albany not attending—and
there being only one Commillioner from the State
of New-York, they were under the necpility of
adjourning without doing any thing further than
agreeing to meet on the 27th Sept. next, either
at New-York or Bennington, which place, to be
agreed upon.
A correspondent obferves,that evasions and non
payments of duties are to be ekpedted in all coun
tries—every law relative to this fubjetfl is predi
cated on this principle.—The inducemsnts to
ftnuggle are always in proportion to the savings
that may be made by the practice. It is there
fore afubjetfl of serious enquiry, Whether it will
be good policy to enhance the present rate of im
polt ? especially, if it is a facft, as has been fre
quently allerted, that the duties on many articles
are now complained of. The mercantile iniereft
has evinced its patriotism by a cordial fubmiilion
to the laws, and a prompt payment of the duties.
The infinite importance of commerce has been
by this means demonltrated—as under its auspi
ces we mayjultly be said to enjoy the richest
bleflings of life, peace, and good government —
but whileinnumerablefourcesof revenue remain
unexplored, is it not killing the Goose to get the
Golde;; Egg, re make an iridition to the ln;"polt f
The mercantile interest lias been unfavorably
contrasted with the landed interest in the House
of Representatives—but there does not appear so
much confidence in the patriotism of the latter aa
to induce government to apply to that source for
any part of the revenue. This is not doing jus
tice to either, as we have abundant evidence to
(hew that both are on a par in their attachment
to the principles ofhonelty and patriotifu'i.
Every civilized nation in the woila has found
the utility of instituting and perpetuating anni
verf.iry commemorations of past events—many of
these, however, have owed their rife to trifling
and unimportant incidents. But the anniverf u y
of independence, is a Day, consecrated to ilie
celebration of an event, that has raised human
nature at least one grade higher in the scale of
exiitence.
In every part of the United States this glorious
anniversary has been celebrated wkh afpirit un
known to our former days of annual feftivity and
joy—a laudable emulative military spirit has been
displayed, while the powers of Oratory, and the
devout exercises of religious worship, have uni
ted, to aid and promote the glary of the day !
A correspondent observes that the general fen
titnent is most clearly to be ascertained from the
public social a(fts of the people.—'A reference to
the late celebration of Independence through the
Union, will forcibly impress this idea, That the
Constitution of the United States is considered as
the palladium of their civil rights—and that the
government is venerated by the citizens of the
whole Union.
The commencement in the University of Penn
lylvania was held on the Bth inft. The degree
of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on nine, and
of Matter of Arts on ten gentlemen—and the de
gree of Bachelor in Medicine on twelve.
The resolution for afiuming the State debts was
3grced to in the Senate by a majority of two.
We hear that a committee of the Senate reported on the funding
bufincfs vefterday—which report was accepted, and is in substance
as follows, viz. Principal of the Domestic Debt of the United
States, fds at 6 pr. cent, the other Jd. at 6 pr. cent, in 10 years,
agreeable to the fourth alternative in the Secretary's Report.—
Indents at a present intcrcil of 3 pr. cent. State Debts £d. at 3
p . cent, the other fds. on the fame terms as the principal of the
debt of the United Stales!
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Brig Two Brothers, Wyer, Charleston, 12.
A&ive, Darrah, Montego Bay, 36.
Schowncr Catharine, Wilson, Halifax, 25.
Sloop Henry, Peters, Bermuda, 33.
Dolphin, Conklin, St. Ctoix, 17.N E W-Y O ft K, July 1790.
The fallowing Bill has been reported by a committee, appointed
far the purpose ; after being read in the House, it was ordered
10 be printed—and it is understood that it (hall be laid over to
the ofKt feflion, in order that the public fentimeut may be ob
tained on the fubjeCt.
A BILL more efFeiflually to provide for the na
tional defence, by eftabliftiing a uniform Mi
litia throughout the United States.
(CONTINUED.)
. A N T D be it further enaftcd, That in order to prevent a
e. 7. N y injury from drawing off the workmen
at certain works an<§ manufactories hereafter named, to attend
the several days of rendezvous as aforefaid, it (hall and ma) be
lawful for the commander in chief of each State to appoint pro
per officers at all furnaces for manufacturing of iron, and all
works for manufacturing of glass, if any such shall be within the
State, whose duty it shall be to form the workmen, manufactur
er*, and laboreis belonging thereto, into a company or companies,
in manner as aforefaid, or as nearly theieto as circumftrnces will
admit, and to train, exercise and discipline them in manner di
rected by law, excepting as to the place, which shall always be at
the works or manufactories, and excepting the meetings in re
giment or battalion, in lieu of which they (hall meet in compa
nies at the said wo»ks and manufactories, in manner aforefaid.
And the said workmeu. manufacturers and laborers, shall be ex
eutVd from all other nulitia duly ixcept 111 times of invasion or
InfurreCtion.
Sec. 8. And be it further enafledy That there (hall be an adju
tant-general appointed for each State, whofedutyit (hall bctodii
tribu.e all orders from the commander in chief of the Srate to the
several corps—to attend all public reviews, when the command
er in chief of the State (hall review the militia, or any pait thereof
—to obey all orders from him relative to carrying into execution
and perfecting the system of military discipline e(tabli(hcd by this 1
»Ct—to furnifh blank forms of diff rent returns that may be re
quired, and to explain the principles on which they (hould be
made—to receive from the ftveral officers of the different corps
throughout the State, returns of the militia under their command,
reporting the aflual situation of their arms, accoutrements and
ammunition, theii delinquencies, and every other thing which
relates to the genual advancement of good order and discipline—
all which the ieveral officers of the divisions, brigades, regimems
and battalions, areljercby required to make in the usual manner,
fothat the said adjutant-gf ncral may be duly furnilhed therewith :
From all which returns he fhaJl make proper abstraCts, and lay
the fame annually before the commander in chief of the State:
And the said adjutant-general (hall have the rank of a lieutenant
colone' in the militia. And there (hall aifo be, appointed in each
State a commilfary of military (tores, who (halt have the rank of
a major in the militia, with as many deputies as the State fhallby
iaw direCt, whote duty it (hall be to takr the charge and keeping
of all the ordnance and military Itores of the Sute, fnbjeft to fucn
orders and iriftruttions, in the execution of his and their duty, as
lie or they (hall from time to time receive from the commander
in chief of the State, or other superior officer.
Sec. 9. Avdbe it further enafled. That all officers who (hall be
appointed and commiflioned to any of the offices as aforefaid, shall
within ten days after notice of such appointment or commiflion,
report their acceptance of such office to the commanding officer
of the regiment or brigade ; on failure whereof such neglect (hall
be confidercd as a refufal; and the said commanding officer (hall
•vrithin ten days thereafter report the fame, to the commanding of
ficer of the division or brigade, who lhall from time to time re
port the fame with all vacancies that may happen, to the adjutant
general, for the information of the commander 111 chief of the
State.
ttc. 10. And be il further That every com mi (Honed of
ficer who shall beconvi&cd by a general court-martial, of having
refafed or reglefled to perform, <»rof having atted contrary to
any ot the duties of his office, (hall be punifhrd according to the
nature ;\nd degree of his offence, at the discretion of the court,
either by fine or removal from his office : Provided, That no fine
for the hist offcncc, shall exceed dollars ; and for
any subsequent offence dollars ; which fines
lhall be levied and coJle&ed by warrant, under the hand and seal
or the commanding officer of the regiment or battalion, directed
to any ferjeant ot the regiment or battalion to which the offender
may belong, in like manner as the fin s hereafter mentioned to be
recovered 61 non-commiflioned officers and privates, for neglefl
or refufal of duty, are directed to be levied and colle&ed. That
the commanding officers of divisions and brigades "may ordei
courts-martial for the trial of offcnces within his diviiion or bri
gade, the members of which shall be warned for that duty by the
brigade-major, *ho shall keep a roller for that purpose, That the
proceedings and sentence of every court-marshal, by which any of
-1 ficer shall be removed from office, shall be in writing, signed by
the president thereof; and shall by the prefid nt be delivered to
the commanding officer of the brigade, to be by him tranfinitted*
to the commander in chief of the Sta«e, who shall approve or di f
' approve of the fame in orders : And ih?t all other proceedings
an-i fcntences of brigade counts-martial, lhall he delivered by the
president thereof :o the commanding officer of ibe brigade, who
lhall approve or di (approve of the fame in orders. That all
courts-martial fpr the trial of general officers, lhall be ordered by
the commander in chief of the State, and compofdof general
and field officers, who shall be warned to that duty bv ihe adju
tant-gencrai of the State, from a roller to be by hi in kept for that
purpose That tne proceedings and fentcncesof such courts shall
be tranfinitted by the presidents thereof to the commander in
chief, who (hall approve or difnpprove of the sam in orders :
-Provided, that no sentence of a court-martial on a general officer
shall extend further than a removal from offiee. Tlflfr all genera'
tourts-martial fhiill ronfifl of at lea ft nine commiflioned officers
whofhail appoint their judge advocate, who is hereby authorized*
and required to administer an oath to each member of the court,
h they are heieby ehjoiticd CtrVerally to take before they pro
ceed on bufineTs, to tfieft.lowing : " You,
do i wear that you will well and truly try and d. tcrmine according
to evidence, the rratter depending between the State of
and the piifoner or prifoncrsnow to be tried—That you
will not divulge the sentence of the court, until the fame shall be
approved or disapproved pursuant to law ; neither witl you upon
any account at any time whatsoever, difclofc or difcovcr the vo e
of opinion of any particular member of the court-martial, uulefs
required by a due course of law." And the president of the said
eourt-marlial is hereby authorised and required thereupon tu ad
inmiflcr an oath to the judge advocate, which he is hereby enjoin
ed to take before he proceeds farther on bufincfs, to the following
effect: " You
do swear that you will not on any account, at any time whatso
ever, disclose or discover the vote or opinion of any particular
member of the court-martial, unlcfs required in a due course of
law ; and that vou will not divulge the sentence of this court, un
t l the fame shall be approved or disapproved according to law ;
aud that you will well and truly do the duty of a judge-advocate
in this court impartially and uprightly, accord ng to thebeftof
your abilities."
Sec. 11. And be it further enafled, That every non-com mififioned
officer or private, not neceflanly absent from the county or town,
who ftiall neglect to appear, when warned pursuant to law, at a
company meetiug or rendczuous, not having a fufHcient excuse,
s"Wall forfeit and pay the sum of fifty cents ; and for appearing at
/uch meeting or rendezvous without his arms, ammunition and
accoutrements, as dire£)ed by this ast, shall pay the sum of twenty
five ccnts ; and for the liXfr offences at a regimental 01 battalion
meeting or rendezvous, for the fi< ft offence sforefaid lie shall for
feit and pay the sum of one hundred cents, and for the lait of
fence the sum of fifty cents. And in cafe of any difobedicncc of
orders or neglect of duty while nnder arms or in a£lual service,
he shall forfeit and pay such sum as (hall dc directed by the major
voice of the officers of the company, battalion or regiment, pro
vided the fame shall not in any cafe amount to more than
and that all fiars arising from offences in company only
shall be adjudged of and imposed by the commiflioned officers of
the company, or the major part of them, and all fines to arifc
from offences in battalion or regiment with refpeft to the non
commifTioncd officers and privates, shall be adjudged and impo
sed by the field officers of the battalion or regiment, all which
fines shall be levied with coils, not exceeding cents,
oy warrant from the colonel or commanding officer of the regi
ment, battalion or company, as the cafe may be, diretted to one
or more ferjeants, by diftrefsand sale of the offender's goods and
chattels: And in cafe any defaulter shall be under age, and live
with his father or mother, or fh-»ll be an apprentice or hired fcr
vant, the fath ror mother, mafic r or mftrefs, as the cafe may
be, shall be Jiiblc to pay the said fines withcofls, and in default
of payment when demanded, the said ferjeant or ferjeants, shall
levy the fame upon the goods and chattels of such father or mother,
master or mistress—such fines when recovered to be paid over by
the ferjeant or ferjeants to the officer granting such warrant.
(To be continued.)
GEORGE-TOWN, July 3.
Ext raft of a littet ft am London May (>.
" Before you receive this letter, hortilities be
tween this country and Spain, will commence; in
which the latter (as you may colletftfrom the pa
pers which go by the Packet) is the aggteflor, ha
ving taken five out of seven British veflels, tra
ding between the North-Weft Coast of America
and the East-Indies. A general war is expected,
as well as another, artonifhing and unexpected,
revolution in America. We were never more for
midable, either in power or unanimity. The
general voice of England has, without waiting for
the Royal Proclamation, denounced war and de
ftrudlion against that branch ofthe Houfeoj Bour
bon, now weakened and divided, through a glori
ous struggle to eftablilh the equal and natural
rights of man. The King of Spain, it is alledged
has made some powerful alliance to enable him,
in this crisis, to oppose the Britfh fleet, strength,
and resources. Our Stud-jobbers in the Alley,
however, have formed for him, in one day, alli
ances numerous enough to vanquish the world ;
but the next day, have been civil and cuirttous in
another extreme, reducing his native sovereignty
into a commonwealth, and diverting him of his
dominions in South-America.—However, theEn
glifli fleet is in motion. Ships are daily despatch
ed on secret expeditions, and the officers and
men are reported to be unusually sanguine for
a&ion. How, or when this commotion may ter
minate, is out of the reach of hfuman coniprehen
lion : But we may conclude, with certainty, that
the produce of your country will command a
great price during its continuance; and that
Heaven may prosper you on this, as well as 011 e
very future occasion, is the wish of millions in
this hemisphere.
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOT 1 ERY, for the pnrpofe of raising Seven T/rou
fand Five Hundred Pounds, agreaMc to an ACT of the Legisla
ture of the State of New-York, patted Bth February, 1790.
sCH E M
1 PRIZE of
2
3
10
3°
5®
120
180
795°
8346 Prizes, }
166,54 Blanks, S a s°°° Tickets, at 40s. each, £ .50000
Subject to a deduttion of Fifteen per Cent.
THEobjefct of this LOTTERY being to raise a part ofthefum
advanced by the corporation for repairing and enlarging theCl-
T Y HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, which does
so much honor to the Architect, as well as credit to the city. The
managers presume that their fellow Citizens will cheerfully con
cur m promoting the sale of Tickets, especially as the success ol
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, which must otherwifc
be laid to reimburse the corporation.
Tiie above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very beneficial
to adventurers,there not being two blanks to a prize.
1 he Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the First
Monday in August next, or sooner if filled, of which timeK
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers willbepub
lithed at the expiratiqn ok the drawing.
f ickets are to be mie by the fubferibers, who arc appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stout enbu rch, Abraham Herring,
Peter T. Curtenius, John Pintard.
New-York, 6thMa> Ji % 1790.
C'" 3 ~ THE Managers give notice that agreeable to an order of the Cor.
pora, twn, the drawing of the City-Lottery, will positively commence on the
fir/t Monday m Augujl. j uiy
By Order of the Honorable Richard Morris, Esq. Chief JuJlice of the
State of New-York.
"VJOTICE is h "tby given to Lewis M'Donald, of Connecticut,
. .1, a r a j . nt t n™' , th,U u P on application and due proof made
to the laid chief justice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Donald
" U Anaftf ana , ft .° f lhe a L Tr n,tU J re ° f the said State > "'titled*
An ast for relief sjjamft ahLonding and absent debtors," oaf.
fed the 4th April, , 7 86; he, the said chief justice, ha. directed
all the said Lewis estate, within this state, to be feiz
ed, and that unlcfs he fliall discharge his debts within twelve
nonths aftfcr the publication of this notice, thefamewill be fold
-r the payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d May, , 7qo
IVen-Yorf, Mev 7 , > 79 0. (,w ,y)
P ASH, and a generous price given for Conti
528
E M
£.3000
1000
s°°
£00
XOO
5°
20
10
4
2000
1500
2000
3000
2500
2400
1800
3tßoo
Treasury Department,
July n . 7QO
NOTICE is hereby given, that Proposals will 'be recemd at fadc
of the Secretary oj the Treasury, to thefrjlday cf Odoler nLft
dufve, for thefupply of all rations, which may be required jo, the u r }
the United States, f rom the firjl dayaf J.inuanto the thirty hrt / c
December 1791, both days .nclufae, at the places, and wthntluiJ'--
herein after mentioned, viz. '
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the I,lite of Pet><(' ,
and Fort Pitt and at Fort Pitt,
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntel ,
River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofk. J '
At any place or places, betunxt Fort M'htojh and the mouth of the "
ver Mujiingum, and at the mouth oj the River MvJUnevm.
At any place or places, htuiixt the mouth of the River Mujl a ,
up the said Rwir to the Tufcaro'j/as, and at the Tufcarowjs, ar.i t;
over to the Ladoga River, and down the said River to its no'uth.
At anyplace or places, betwixt the month of the river Mufh:it, n j
the mouth of the Scioto R'Ver, and at the mouth ojtheLid RiverSciot'
At any place or placet, betwixt the month oj Scioto Xiver, and th e nm ,
of the great Mi mi at the mouth of the ere it Mum, and from tkesu h
the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio and at the said Rapids. 8
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of th: great Miami lit |t>
said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the Miami 'vJL, '
oa the river of the fame name which empties into Lake Erie,
At any place or places from the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth iftl,
Wabafh, thence up the fatd IVabapito Pojl St. Vincennes, at Pojlii y ln .
cennes, and thente tip the said river W'abijh, to the Miami Filii,. l
fore described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to tkt Wal t
of the rive/ Ohio.
At any h/ace or places, on the eafl fide of the river
mouth ojthe Ohio river, to the mouth of the Illinois river.
At anyphce or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to the Mini
Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sindujly, #
Sar.dufhy, andfrom Smdujky to the mouth of Caxoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at Vtmn
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf and at Le {»/
betwixt Le B ujand and Prefj'lflt, at Prefq'lJlt, and betuut f„U
IJle and the mouth of C a )Cg.i river.
At the mouth of Cayoga nve>\ and at any place or pious, on Uit retl
from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the uiay of Big Btntn
creek.
At any place or places, on the eajl file of the MiJJifippi, bctie m fa
mouth of the Ohio andthe river Margot inclufvely.
At anyplace or places, from thefiid river Margot, to the riwYimi
inclusively.
At any place r» placesfrom the mouth of the rh>er Tennefee, toOcocki
po or Bear creek, on the Jfaid river inclufvely.
Should any rations be required at any places, or unthin other diftids,
notfp'nfed in t/iefc propofi!s,the price oj the fame to be hereafter amd
on, betwixt the public and the controller.
Ihe rations' to be supplied are to conffl of the following at tides, uii.
Ore pound of bread or flo ur,
One pound of beef, or\%f a pound os-pork,
Haifa jill of rum, brandy or whifk\,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vine rar, f .
Two pounds tjfiap, \ P tr ' 100
One pfund oj Candles, )
The propof As mujl fpecifythe lowrfl price per ration. No credit is re
quired. ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
PRICE CURRENT.
jum
J/iMAIf* A Spirits, 5/6.
Ant'.gua Rum, 4fy. a $f.
St. Croix, do. 4JB.
Couiury, d*>. 3/2.
Molasses, 2/4.
Brandy, j/.
Geneva, 5/3.
Do. in cases, 28/ I
Muscovado Bcif *7 2f
Loaf, do. 1/4.
Lump, do. 1/2 J.
Pepper, il 9.
Pimento, 1/6.
Coffee, 1/3. 1/4.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3/. a 6f.
Do. French, 18/. 10f.
Rice, 25/
Superfine Hour, 62 f.
Common do. 58</.
Rye do. 30/ a 28/
Indian Meal, 18f. 20f.
Rve, 5/. />r.
Wheat, 8/". a gj.
Corn, (Southern) 3/6.
Do. (Northern,) qf.
Beef, firft quality, 48f. scif
Pork, firft quality, 80s.
Oats, 2/2.
Flax-feed, $f.
Ship bread per cwt. 21/ 24 f.
Country refined ) „,
bar-iron, J 281. a 301.
Do. bloomery, 251. a 261.
Swedes do. 4jl.
Ruflia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 10/ a 91.
German fleel, grf.per lb.
Nails American, by calk. ) 14J.
per. lb. 4 d. I *
Do. do. do. 6d. 1 2 d.
Do. do. do. Bd. aid.
Do. do. do.
Do. do. do- i2dT ~ ,
Do. do. do. 20d.r yi da W-
Do. do. do, 24d.)
Pot ash, per ton, 421. to/".
Pearl afii, 55 ).
Bees-wax per lb. 2f.
Mackaiel per barr. ,6/1 <1 30f.
Herrings, 18/ ,6/.
Mahogany, Jamaica, > ,
per foot, \
Dominico, do. 9d.
Honduras, do. -jd.
Logwood unchipped,pr.ton. 81.
Do. chipped. 14).
2 inch white oak >
plank, per m. Jlo • lof
-1 inch do.
2 inch white pine plar»£, 81.
inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 3]. tof
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
Do. 22 inch do. il. Sf
Cedar 2 inch do. il. iof
inch do. 61. 1 of.
i inch do. 41.
Pitch pine scantling, 31. Bf. ]
Cyprus 2 feet lhinglef, il. 10f. 1
'■ AEtr.YOMX.
r £ 30. Dollars at Bs.
Do. 9 2 inch do. jLGjf.
Do. 18. inclVdo. Tsy "
Butt white 01k staves, 3s/".
Pipe do. do. 91.
Hogshead do. do. 61.
Do. do. heading, 81.
Irifti barrel do. staves, 31. 5/
Hogftiead red oak do. 51. 4(■
Do. French do. 51.
Hogshead hoops, 41.
Whiteoak square timber?
per square foot, )
Red wood, per ton, 161.
Fuftick, tol.
Beaver, per lb. iif. it&J-
Otter per Ikin, 9f. $%J.
Grey fox, 4/7.
Martin, 47*0.
Racoon, 3J6 a 7/6.
Muflcrat, 1 od. a 14 a.
Beaver hats, 64J.
Callor do. 48f.
Chocolate, 14 d.
Cocoa. 70s a Bos.
Cotton, 2J.
Tar, pr. bar. 11/6.
Pitch, lif a 13/.
Turpentine, 21/-020/.
Tobacco, James River, 4d.i*\d-
Do. York, 4*/. a 3\d.
Do. Rappahauock, 2d a 3s"\
Do. Maryland, coloured,
Do. Weftcrn-lhore, 2d & 35"
Lead in pigt, pr cwt. 6of.
Do. bars, 68f
Do. Shot, 68/
Red lead, 68f.
White do. dry, 95/
White do. in oil, 5'- > 2 j
Salt-petre hams, 7
Spermaceti candles, 3/-
Mould do. 4 id. *
Tallow dipt, 9\d.
Soap, sd. a Bd.
Caftilc soap, 9d. a tod.
Knglifh cheese, pr. lb. IS*?
Country do. $d. 6d.
Butter, Bi.
Hyson tea, gf
Sequin do. 6/6.
Bohca do. 2^4.
Ginseng, zf a 2/6.
StarA Poland, 7d.
SnufF, 2/3.
Allum fait, water mea- /
sure, pr. bush. )
Liverpool do. 2j.
Madeira wine, ? g 0 / # a 90/
pr. pipe, J
Port, 46/.
Lifton, pr. gal. fj
Tene-iff, 4 f
F y a,, » 3/3-
Spermaceti do, 61.
Shake-down hhds. 3j<s
Dutch gun-powder,pr.cwWV
Nail rods, pr. ton, 34'- 3
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal. 47-
Whale do. pr. barrel, SPJ- a^