PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 30, c/" Vol. 11. j
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA No. XV.
(Concluded Jrom our lufi.)
First follow nature and your jud*ment frame
By her just standard which isftill the f»me.
AMERICANS ! In your Congress at Philadel
phia,on Friday,the 14th day of Oft. 1 you
laid down the fundamental principles, for which
you were about to contend,and from which it 13 >to
be hoped you will never depart. For aliening and
vindicating your rights and liberties, you declar
ed, '' 1 hat by the immutable laws of nature, the
" principles of the English Constitution, and
" your several charters or compacts, you were
" entitled to life, liberty and property : that
" your ancellors were entitled to all the rights,
" liberties and immunities of free and natural
" born fubjdeits in England: that you, their de
" fcendants, were entitled ro the exercise and
" enjoyment of all such of them as your local
" and other circuinftances, enabled you toexer
" cife and enjoy. That the foundation of En
" glifh liberty, and of all free government, is,
a right in the people, to participate in their
" legislative council. That you were entitled
" t6 the common law of England, and more ef
" pecially to the great and inestimable privilege
" of being tried by your peers oi" the vicinage,
" according to the course of that law. That it
" It indispensably necejfary togood government, ar.d
" rendered essential by the Englijh Confutation, that
" the conjlitueilt branches of the legislature, betr.de
" fender oj each ether." These, among others,
you then claimed, demanded and infilled on, as
your indubitable rights and liberties. These
are the principles, 011 which you firft united and
aflociated, and if you lleadily and consistently
maintain them, they will nbt only secure free
dom and happiness to yourselves and your poste
rity, but ydur example will be imitated by all
Hurops, and in time perhaps by all mankind.
The nations are in travail and great ?*enrs piuit
have birth. " The minds of men are in move
ment from the 801 iithenes to the Atlantic. Agi
tated with new and llronir emotions, they swell
and heave beneath bppreiiion, as the seas within
the polar circle, atthe approach of spring. The
genius of philosophy with the touch of Ithuriel's
spear, is trying the eftabliflinientt bf the earth.
The various forms of prejudice, superstition and
servility, start up, in their true lliapes, which
had long imposed upon the world, under the re
vered feuiblances of honor, faith and loyalty.
Whatever is loose mult be shaken ; whatever is
corrftpted inuft be lopt away ; whatever is not
built on the broad balls of public utility, mull
be thrown to the ground. Obscure murmurs ga
ther and swell into atempell ; the spirit of en
quiry like a severe and searching wind, pene
trates every part of the great body politic ; and
\vhatever is unsound, whatever is infirm, fhriuks
Ar the visitation. Liberty, led by philosophy,
diffuses her blelfings to every class of men ; and
even extends a finile of hope and proniife to the
poor African, the victim of hard impenetrable
avarice. Man, as man, becomes an objet r tof re
fpeift. Tenets are transferred, from theory to
practice. The glowing sentiment, the lofty fpe
culat.loll, no longer fer\e " but to adorn the pag
es of a book they are brought home to men's
bulincfs and bosoms ; and what fume centuries
ago, itw;is daring but to think, and dangerous
to express, is now realized and carried into effect.
Syfletns are analysed .into their firft principles,
iuid principles are fairly pursued to their legiti
mate consequences."
This is all enchaining.—But amidst our enthu
fiafin„ there is great reason to paul'e, and pre
serve our sobriety. It is true that the firft em
pire of the world is breaking the fetters of hu
man reason, and exerting the energies ofredeem
td liberty. In the glowing ardors of her zeal,
ihe condescends, Americans, to pay the molt
fcrupolous attention to your maxims, principles
and example. There is reason to fear/he has co
pied from you, errors, which have cost you very
dear. Affilt her, by your example, to redtify
then before they involve her in calamies, as
much greater than as her population is
jnore unwieldy, and licr lituation more exposed
to the baleful influence of rival neighbours.
Ainidlt all their exultations, Americans and
Frekciimen Ihoula remember, that the perfec
tibility ot man, is only human and terreftial per
ieitibility. Cold will Hill freeze, and fire will
never cease to burn : disease and vice will conti
nue to disorder, and death to terrify mankind.
SATURDAY, JULY 24, 1790.
Emulation next to felf preservation will forever
be the great spring of human acftions, and the
balance of a well ordered government, will alone
be able t-o prevent that emulation from degene
rating into dangerous amotion, irregular rival
ries, deftru<Sive factions, wafting feJitions and
bloody civil wars.
The great queftior, wi/i forever remain, -who
Jhall work f Our ; r _. cannot all be idle.
Leisure for study must evt? be the portion of a
tew. Ihe number employed in government,
mult forever be very final) * Food, raiment and
habitations, the indifpenfihle wants of all, are
not to be obtained without the continual toil of
ninety-nine in an hundred of mankind. As reft
is rapture to the weary man, those who la
bor little will always be envied by thole who la
bor much, though the Tatter, irj reality, be pro
bably the most enviable. With all the encou
ragements public and private, which can ever be
given to general education, and it is fcarcelypof
(ible they iliould be too many or too great, the
laboring part of the people, can never be learn
ed. The controversy between the rich and the
poor, the laborious,and the idle, the learned and
the ignorant, diftinfttons as old* as the creation,
and as exteniiveas the globe ; diftintftions which
no art or policy, no degree of virtue or philoso
phy can ever wholly destroy, will continue, and
rivalries will spring out of therri. These parties
will be represented in the leglflature, and must
be balanced, or one will oppress the other.
There will never probably fce found, any other
mode of eftablilhing fucli an equilibrium, than
by constituting the representation of each, an
independent branch of the legislature, and an
independent executive authority, such as that in
our government, to be a thin! branch and a me
diator or an arbitrator I><- ween them. Property
must be lecured, or libc " cannot exist : but if
unlimited, or unba/anniij po»v r of, difpci£ng
property, be put into the hands of thole/ -who
have 110 property, France will find, as We hnvt;
round, the lamb committed to the custody of the
wolf. In such a care, all the pathetic exhorta
tions and addrefles of the National Allenibly to
the people, to refpecft property, will be regarded
110 more than the warbles of the fonglters of the
sorest. The great art of lawgiving coufills in
balancing the poor again ft the rich, in the legis
lature, dnd in constituting the legislative, a per
fect balance against the executive power, at the
fame lime, that no individual or party can become
its rival. The ellence of a free government con
sists in an effertfal controul of rivalries. The
executive and the legislative powers are natu
rally rivals : and if each, has not an effectual
controul over the other, the weaker, will ever
be the lamb in the paws ot the wolf. The nation
which will not adopt an equilibrium of power,
must adopt a despotism. There is 110 other al
ternative. Rivalries must Le controuled, or they
will throw all things into confufion : and there
is nothing but despotism, or a balance ©f power,
which can tontroul them. Even in the simple
monarchies, the nobility and the judicatures,
constitute a balance, though a very imperfe<ft one
against the royalties.
Let us conclude witji one reflection more>
which shall barely be hinted at, as delicacy, if
not prudence, may require in this place foine
degree of relerve. Is there a poflibility, that the
government of nations may fall into the hands
of men, who teach the molt disconsolate of all
creeds, that men are but fireflies, and that this
all, is without a father ? Is this the way, to make
man, as man an object of refpeit ? Or is it, to
make murder itfelf, as indifferent ss /hooting a
plover, and the extermination of the Rohilla na
tion, as innocent, as the swallowing of mites, 011
a morsel ofcheefe ? If fuchacafe lhould happen,
would not one of these, the most credulous of all
believers, have reason to pray, to his eternal na
ture, or his almighty chance, (1 he more absurdity
there is in this address the more in character)
give us again the gods of the Creeks—give us again
the more intelligible as well as more comfortable fyf
tents of Athauajiui and Calvin—nay y give us again
our Popes and Hierarchies, Benedißines and IcfuitJ,
with all their fuperjlition and fanaticijm, 'mpoflurcs
and tyranny.—A certain Dutchefs of venerable
years and niafculine understanding, said of some
of the Philosophers of the eighteenth century,
admirably well, " On ne croit pas, dans le
" Chriftianifme, mais qii croit, toutes les fottifes
'■ pofiibles."
533
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
P4RJS.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE COLOMES,
Presented to the National AJJtmily, in the name of
the Committee appointed for that pufpc/e, the 23d
March, 1790.
By Mr. Barnjvi, Deputy fiora Dauphiny.
CONTINUED.
' I ''HE National Afieinbly having pointed out
A the mode of forming die afiemblies, which
are to preiVnt the views of the colonies, is also
obliged to fix certain principles as a basis for their
plans of conftitutiofi, to render as as far as pofli
ble all iuch as may be offered fufceptable of be
ing received
But it is defi-ous to reduce its conditions to the
molt simple terms, to the most nnconteftable max
ims—-and it does not wifhto add any thing which
may impofeany limits to the libei ty of the colo
nial afiemblies, beyond what conltitutes the fun
damental connexion beween tlie colonies and the
metropolis.
I he colonial afiemblies, engaged in the bufi
nefsof the Coiiftitution will perceive the distinc
tion between the legislative, executive, judiciary
and administrative functions ; they will exa
mine how it will best answer to organize the'iri
in the constitution of this colony f the forms,
according to which the legislative and executive
power ought to be exercised, the number, com
poution and hierarchy of the tribunals ; into
whole hands the administration ought to be in
truftt d, the number, formation and fubordina
ti-jn of the different afiemblies which ought to
concur therein ; the qualifications which may
be required to constitute an aiftive citizen, for
the purpose of exercising the different employ
ments ; in a Word, whatever may enter into the
composition of a government, the best adopted
to secure the happineft aud tranquility of the
colonies.
Tlie nature of their intcrefts, which can never
be entirely blended with those ofthe metropolis
locals and particularly objeasrcfpecfimg the pre
paration of their Jaws ; in short, the diltance of
places, and the time necellary to arrive at them
eftabliih a great difference between them and
the provinces of France, and consequently occa
fton a difference in their constitutions.
But in endeavouring to find these Out, we
ought never to lose fight that they form however
a part of the French empire, and that the pro
tection which is due them by the whole national
strength ; that the engagements which cutrhc
to exilt between them and the commerce "of
France ; in a word, that every tie of reciprocal
utility which attaches them to the metropolis
can have 110 kind of solidity, without the exist
ence of political connections to serve as a basis.
From these different views, it appears with re
fpectto the legislative power,
That the laws designed for the interior reg'j.
lation of the colonies, independent ofthe relati
ons which exifl between them and the metropolis
may and can be prepared without any difficulty
within tliemfelves. 3
That these laws when they are of a preffinr
nature, may be provisionally executed with the
lanction or the governor ;
But that the right of approving tliein defini
tively, should be reserved to the legislature of
rrance ana the King.
To the legifliiture, because it is inverted with
»he national power, and because it would be im
polnble without its participation, to be sure tha*
the laws prepared in the colony, would not in
terfere with the engagements contracted with
the metropolis.
To the King, because the fanttion of all the
functions of royalty, are attributed to liini over
the colonies as well as over all the other parts
or the r rench empire.
It in like manner follows, that the Jaws which
relpect the connections between the colonies and
the metropolis whether they are demanded by
the colonial Aflembly, or have been prepared in
the National Aliembly, ought to receive their
exiltence and authority from the latter, and can
not be executed, even provisionally until they
have been decreed by it. A maxim oflegiflatiort
which has 110 connection with momentary excep
tions, which pressing and imperious wants may
require, reflecting the introduction of provifi
011s. r
From the fame views refuits with regard ro
(tte
[Whole No. 134.Jfrom the fame, views result, with regard to
she Executive power.
Tlut it may be neceflary, in certain cases, that
the functions attributed to the King, throughout
-all the parts ofthe French empire, should be pro
niifctioufly exercised in the colonies, by a gover
nor who represents hiin..
That therefore the choice and installation of
officers, which are in his nomination, the appro
fcation neceflary for the execution of the decrees
ofthe administrative aflemblies—and the other
adts which require celerity, may be provisionally
afligned to this governor, under the positive re
ierve of the King's approbation.
But that, in the colonies, as in France,
liingis the only and Supreme Chief of the Execu-"
tive power—thaoall the officers of justice, the
administration, the military forces, ought to ack
nowledge him as their chief-—and that all the
, powers attributed to royalty, in the French con-
only be exercised provisionally by
those he has charged with them, and definititely
by himfelf.
These principles being acknowledged, all the
■views which may concur in favor of the prolper
ity of the colonies, may be taken into conlidera
tion by the colonial aflemblies.
The French nation does not wish to exercise
over them any other inflikcnee than that of the
ties eftabliflied and cemented for the common
-utility—it is in no wife jealous to eitabliih orpre
ierve the means of oppression.
What sources of prosperity are offered to the
patriotifni of the colonial aflemblies by the dif
ferent parts of the labor entrusted to them. The
eftablifliment of a simple judiciary order, fecur
in®' to the citizens an impartial and piompt jus
tice, an administration committed to the hands
of those who are interefled in it, a plan of imports
iuited to their convenience, the forms of which
cannot be changed, and rhequamity can only be
regulated by the >ote of the colonial aflemblies
themselves
France, to which its commercial laws with the
•colonies ought to secure, with fonie benefit the
Teimbuvfenmnt of the expences, which it is obli
ged tofupport for their protection, does not con
sider their polleffion as a fifcal resource. 1 heir
particular imposts shall be confined to the expen
ds of their own government, they themselves
ihall propose the e)tab!i!limeiu mil proportion of
them.
France does Hot consider its colonics as the
means of juftifying avidity, of flattering the ty
ranny of foriie persons appointed to superintend
their ailminiftration —the intereltsof the citizens
ought to be managed by themselves, and the ad
aminiilratiou can only be entrusted to such as
they have freely elected.
The essences of a complicated justice, the de
lays and artifices of chicanfcry, the removals oc
casioned bythe too refined spring of certain tri
bunals, cannot l'uit men continually engaged in
ianadvantageous cultivation, and the commerce
■of its produ&ions—the colonies therefore require
anore rigoropfly than the metropolis, a prompt
stdminiftration ot jnftice divested ot every means
of defpotifni and oppression.
There is then none of these views but which
the National Aflembly will adopt with fatisfa&ion
"whenever they shall be proposed to it by the co
lonial aflTemblies—but, after having considered
"whatfuits the interior happiness of the colonies,
it remains to pay attention to their exterior in-
lererts
The National Allenihly exercises towards each
of thepartsofrhe I'rench empire tliedutiesvvhich
belong to the social body over all the members
B'iat compose it-.-every one finds in it the g'.iar
dian ofits interests and liberty— every one is fub
■jecled by it to theexercile oft he will ot the whole.
The depositary of the most legitimate and most
imposing authorities, the nation which has char
ged it with the preservation ofits rights, has pla
ced at its dilpofal all the force necessary to gua
ranty them. It is then arigid duty, a sacred ob
ligation to maintain them without alteration—
1. it tlie more inconteflable these rights are, so
.much the greater means has the uation which has
nmtrufted ihem, to support them, and so much the
3efs does it fait theaffembly which represents it,
Jo call to their alliftance the arms of weaknels
and of tyranny. A timid circumfpedion, a vain
xJiflimiilation, would dejbafs its character to a le
\el witli'ufuiped or tottering powers—it can then,
it ought then, in treating with the children of
the country, to forget for a moment, and lay aside
Jill the rights and all the powers which it is char,
ged to exercise over them, to examine and dif
cuss their interests with freedom, to attach them
to their duty by the sentiment of their own wel
fare, and to lend to the majority of the nation
it represents, the only language which can suit
it, that of reason and of truth.
A FREE people are naturally high spirited ; efperially those
vVho are torn and nurtered in the principles of liberty ; ihey are
rlways governed with difficulty—and the tefliaints which are ne
ciltVv to prevent those excesses w.'.'ch alwavs precede the loss of
th e1 " so justly p ; ze a are fcldom fubinitted to without
f#ti Pa nee ; a truly independent Jcgiflator mufi thejffcrc nccef
lin'.y be ftraicltiats unpopular.
EXTRACT.
AUTHENTIC* INFORMATION-
(Wt art haft) '< Uftefiu tkt jolttwini authentic
ligenee.)
M*. RUSSELL,
YOU will receive, 'inclosed, some papers, which the Righi Hon.
Viscount ni PoNTtvis-GirN withes vou to infertin your
ufeful and well-written Cintinei : And you will fee by them
how diffident you ought to be of all the reports too easily propa
gated by mdifcretion, or bythe rivals of your commerce, and ours.
The ports of our Colonies continue to be open to the Ameri
cans, as before, and upon the terms in the Ordinances of their re
fpeftive Governors. You know my solicitude to make public
thofc kind of publications so ufeful to the dearest interests of this
port,as well as of .lithe other ports of my diftrift ; and I lhali
continue to fend you their authentic information.
None of the letters which I have received from.ttarimjve make
any mention, " that the American vessels were boarded, and all
the military weapons on board taken away. 1
due regard, Yours, &c. DE LE TOMBE.
EXTRACT from the difpatdus of the Right Hon. Viscount DE
PON TE V ES-GIEN, tO M. DE LeTOMBE.
" OntoardHit Ihusthi.S/. Pierre, June 15.
•' STffCE the begining of the troubles there has been a point
ed enmity between the tow* of». Pierre, and the colony, whicft
encreafed continually, fronUhe anarchy which reigned in that ci
ty. The 3d of June, after the usual procession.a quarrel took,
place between the free-coloured people, and a mob, which
natrd by the sudden slaughter of 15 mulattoes, and three of their
white officers. One hundred an<Tlwenty-feven mulattoes were af
terwards confined in Jail, and their puni(hment wa» infilled upon
by that unruly mob, which the Municipal body was not able to
restrain. Every citiren lamented the |progteilive oppression of a
gang of vilians which cftablifbed themselves in St. Pierre : And
that city, so important to commerce, was approaching to be the
haunt of vagabonds of all nations : Which event, had it arrived,
would have proved fatal to all the windward Iftands. In this
exigency, the colony held a special meeting—the colonists united,
all the free coloured people armed themselves, and demanded thai
iuftice should be done ; even the slaves began to stir, and every
thing would have been in a deplorable fiwaiion there, if a fpeeoy
relief had noj been granted The Colonial Alfembiy having
therefore reqriefled the Viscount D* Damas to employ all the for
ces under his command, and to march to St. Pierre in order to e
liver that town from oppreflion, and to reilore the activity and
liberty of its commerce : And myfelC having also been equally ic
quelled, we thereupon agreed to mov<*on the bufinefs,the gth init.
by land and by water. The town "f Si. Pierre was loon surround
on every part, and taken poflfeflion of by our troops without firing
a single gun ; and every thing palled with the great-eft good order.
The Municipal body, and the citizens, being fatisficd, have pre
iented usaddreffes of thanks, which 1 have the honor to fend you.
41 In order to juftify the (laughter perpetrated the 3 inft. it was
ailed gcd that a plot had been laid by the hec-coloured people a
gainst the whites. Those who were put to jail remain th<*re and
their cafe will jbe legally fcmtitiized. The above is al l that has
taken place. We believe we have rendered an important service
to the Colony, to the Metropolis, and to their refpeftive com
merce : Especially as we have been io fortunate as to luccced in
thfs very dekcate operation without bloodlhed, and to the fatis
tad ion of all the citizens. 1 have the honor &c. See. (Signed)
" On board the llhiflre, Ju*s 17.
14 We have terminated our bufiucfs here and to-morrow wc
(hall go back to Fort-Royal, leaving at St. Pierre's a batalion, in
garrison, at the request of the ctizens. The greater part of the
disturbers have fled ; a part will be sent to France, and some vvill
be puniihed according to thejuftice of the laws : Some have been
punished bv a few days This important mi
litary enterprize has not cost a drop of blood. If we had denied
the request, the Colonics and the coloured people would have
executed that delicate piece of business without us ; and whatever
might have been the iflue, it woald have been fatal to the colony.
44 1 am now gowing to prepare for my departure for France—
and ftiould be very sorry not to have it in my power to fee your
town again, where reside an Hancock, an Adams, a Bowdoin,
and a multitude of citizens, extremely affe&ionatc and amiable ;
to whom 1 am attached by the warmcft gratitude.
44 Farewell, dear, Sir, I reiterate to you always, with new plea
sure, my aflurances of the bucctc and inviolable attachment which
have avowed to you.
(Signed)
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURSDAY, JUNE 18.
MR. SMITH of (S. C.J Mr. Sedgwick and Mr. Lawrance
having spoke against the rqotion made by Mr. Parker for
adjourning Congrcfs to Philadelphia, and blamed Mr. Vming for
bringing it forward again after Ihe deciCon of the Senate against
the measure. *
Mr. Parker rofc and laid. T take to myfelf Mr. speaker the
blame, if the thing is hiameable, lor restating the question which
my worthy friend from Delaware has supported with so much
energy. I think if he is with zeal on thisnccafion it is
a laudable zeal, and worthy of that independence of spirit which
the honest representative of a free people ought ever to pofkr s • for
my part I am convinced of the rettitude of his intentions, and I
do not entertain an apprehension that the gentlemen in opposition
will dare to impeach the matives by which either o( us are actua
ted.
Under animpreffion that it is adverse to the common interest ot
this great republic tohavethe feat of government placed in an ec
centric position—l thai; continue by all juftifiable me3 ns to at.
empt the application of a remedy to an evil which I so iuftl
deem a grievance. ' J
Was I the immediate representative of the city of Near-York
• »rone of the more eastern States, I might forget in a tnomen'
like this, that I was a representative of America, but as a repre
fentative of Virginia, and far removed from the present feat o"i
Congrtfs I can with more concern reded on this improper fltua
:ion. Hen e I must be excused lor doing my duty in advocatm 2
a removal to a place more central and mort. agreeable t6 my im
mediate constituents as well as to the great body of the people o'
United America ; lam the more countenanced, Mr fpaker ir
this exertion by the late declared voice of this Hnafr If I a ,.,'
not mistaken, when the question was last before this Hoafe then
ppeared to be more than two thirds of ,he reprefcntatives'of th.
people in Uvor of a tcraoviUo PluUdslpuij ; and ihall wc sub
534
BOSTON JULY 15.
PONTEVES-GIEN.
PONTEVES-GIEN."
I
mil what appears so dearly to be the desire of the majority *{
h dcopte of America, to the small majority of a tmglc mtmst
iri the Senate.— We who are the reprtfenutives of the people for
whom this government was inaitmed as the conilitution expressly
declares, to concede to a bare majority of the rcpiefcntative, of the
States. Snail we remain ina&ive and fink into nlent apathy, be
cause the Senate has been pleased not to concur with us lu the
firfteffay made to promote the equal diftnbution of the benefit,
•f the poverniriert to all its parts—do gentlemen wi(h to be d c .
2 a led into a (late olvaffalage to the Senate, and only bethemotk
guardians of our country's welfare—are we to fit here to do no
thing but register the edicts of a body, whose councils are con
cealed within the impenetrable walls of a dark divan ? The .re
moval of Congress is a measure of neceflity and those who teel it,
importance cannot, nor ought they to avoid prefling it—gentle
men tell us it !• an irritating fubjeft, but are we who fuftam tie
oppression not excufeable for being irritated ? I inako this ap
peal with confidence to the northarn gentlemen, and aJk if ibey
wDuld fit quiet if they were dragged to Halifax in North-Caroli
na, a place not an inch more dillant from the extremity ol New-
Hampshire, than New-York is from the mod distant, part ot
Georgia t For myfeK I declare, that were we there I Ihould join
th»m in a removal to a place mote central to the union though
more inconvenient to the part of Virginia I represent ; I fttall
c xnfider an accommodation in this bufinek as aftrengthenmrbaud
of union Those who are real friends to Uniud America, will
diflipatc their local attathmeots and meet on central ground. I
vould not like the gentlemen from the Eastern States and \e w .
York throw embariaflments in the way of a measure lo cjlcula.
ted lodo iuftice to aU, and which ought to give general falufa G%
tion, and by such means cease the murmurs of thole who have jult
cause ot comolairit—let those gentlemen cohfider that this go.
vernment is a'government of the people, and not of a few gieat
men, the whole and not a part only are to receive the bc.iefm
which it is constituted to dispense; let them consider what the
voice of the people is ; we are the representatives of the people m
an equal andjuft pi oportion—two thirds of these reprefentativei
lave declared the fentimrnts of their conftiluents; Pennf,lvai:;a
is evidently the present center of representation,, coufequeotlydf
population, and as the centcr of wealth for the present may be a
bout Philadelphia, for the' present I will submit to a removal
there, in full confidence that when the permanent feat is hied it
will be further South, as population and migration will (hortly
give strength to our Southern and Western country. Who afe
they then Mr. Speaker, that atreft the removal to Philadelphia-
Tne Senate ? And who are the Senate? The representatives ot
political communities, of States unequal in their extent and po
pulation—and although I admire the propriety of their tlhblili
ment and their utility in manv cases i yet as this is a question m
which the representatives of the people are more interefled than
the representatives of the States arc—l think their opinion ought
to prevail—and not to be blown away by the still voice o( men
(hut up in a conclave, wrapt in secrecy their high mightinelln (for
so they may be termed from their introduction of titles, ic. 6t .)
are tbey to diftateto the icprefcntatives of a free ptoplt—l trust
not.
Here Mr. Parker was interrupted by several gentlemen calling
to order ; Mr. Smith of (S. C.) hoped-the gentleman might be
permiited to go 011—but he would allure him he ihould at au
fwered.
Mr. Parker proceeded. I do not wish Mr. speaker, to take
up the time of the House, but I jpi strongly persuaded that in a
government like ours, in a question like this, the Senate (hould
be faiisfied to let the representatives of the people feletfc the place
*io(l convenient to the communitv at large ; for myfelf 1 declare
I have no pcrfonal objcftion to New-York, so far from >t that
was I to fele£t a place to spend my own time, I (hould p~efcr it
10 Philadelphia; butas a representative of America, I have n>
right to consult mv private happiness nor overawe the
weal with it, my advocating a removal then cannot be afcrit-ed to
private views or felf-intercfted motives; what (Insulates toe is
the wilh of the people I represent and a conviflion of the prop
erty of the measure. When deliberating on a national of
great importance private wifh.s (hould be baqifhed and the com
mon cause c«nfulted.
Gentlemen tell u» there it no neceflity for prefling this question
at this time ; but fir, I think since we are embarked in it weoug'.l
to prosecute the voyage untiljwe arrive at that place, which will
restore union, harmony, and good humour ; even if we now re
linquifli the bufmefs we have no Security, but it will haunt us
and meet us at every turn. Hence I think, lir, there is an abso
lute neceflity of temoving immediately, if we wish the govern
ment to last, andtofome place from whence the legiflatuie ray
extend its influence in an equal and regular manner to all the ex
tremities ; the people know and feel its partial operation, and i:t
very uneasy under it.
Gentlemen fay we ought to determine the permanent refidtnee;
to me, fir, it is a matter of indifference which is lirll deternised,
permanent or temporary residence—but as a majority have refu
ted to consider of the permanent residence at this time, 1 am wik
ling to give up to their aesifion, and contend for the prefentoniy
for the temporary feat. I wilh this to be nearer the center of the
United States than it now is ; I repeat again, that whilst I have a
majority of the people and their reprefeutatives, I will tot re
linquish my endeavor toobtainwhat they desire with so much
anxiety and what they are entitled to on every principle of justice
and equity.
It is said that no petitions are come forward praying thts re
moval. I admitthere are none—our constituents have confidence
in us, and could not suppose it ncceffary to trouble us with peti
tions, in order to induce us to adopt a measure, the propriety o£
which rauft be obvious to every eye ; but if we now decline to
fatisfy their just desires, we may expect not only petitions, but
rcmovjlranccs against our culpablenegle£V. When people feel what
it is to travel, cxhaufted with fatigue some hundred milts more
than an equal apportionment requires, they will not only c° m "
plain of us, but will have reason to wurfe and execrate the authors
of their ca! .mities
Tue ge»i .emen from the Eastward may feel easy under eve'y
thing of this kind, whilst they remain in New-York; but the
foutfcefn gentlemen will be guilty of great inattention to the in*
tereii ot those they represent, if they remain any longer idle fpcc
tators of a game, by which their particular constituents only can
be looters. (From Lloyd's Minifies.)
_ WEDNESDAY, JULY 21.
Theengrofled bill refpefting consuls, was read
the third time and parted.
A petition of John Tucker, Clerk of the Su
preme Court of the United States, was read,pray*
ing to be repaid ceitain funis he had advanced to
procure seals tor the Supreme and Circuit Courts.
Mr. Sedgwick, from the committee of confer
ence 011 the lubjert [of the bill for fettling the
accounts between the United States and the in
dividual Hates,reported ceVtain amendments that
it would be proper to make in the said bill ; the
house took the report into consideration,
agreed to the fame, with a small alteration.
A meflage was received from the Senate, that
they had pafled the funding bill, with sundry
j amendments, the amendments were made the ° r "
der of the day to-morrow.
I Adjourned.THURSDAY, JULY 14.
A bill for remitter ing ships or vellels : ". re
late the coasting trade ; vellels employed in the
fiftieries and lW other purposes, was brought in
L Mr. Goodhue of the committee appointed to
amend the revenue laws, read and ordered to be
■nrinted for the use of the members.
A Mr. Gerry of the committee of conference on
the disagreement between the two bouses ref
pSling the poft-office bill-brought in a report
which was read. .1,
A report from the Secretary of the Treasury
on the unappropriated lands of the United States
in the Weftcrn territory was read-th.s report
contains a system for the future dlfpofal of that
property, an«l was ordered to be printed.
A mefl'age was received from the Prelident of
the United States informing the House, that an
a (ft to regulate trade and intercourle with the
Indian tribes-an a<ft for holding a treaty or
treaties of peace, with certain Indian tribes, and
an art to amend an act for eftablilhing and sup
porting light-houses, beacons, bouys and public
piers, all of which originated in the House, had
received his aflent.
The report of the committee of conferencc on
the poll; office bill was taken into consideration.
The firft amendment of the Senate, the com- I
mittee on the part of the House did not agree to.
This amendment was to invert: the Post-Master- (
General with the power to eftablilh the crols
poll: roads.—Mr. Hartley moved that the Houle
ihould adhere to their disagreement ; this was
seconded by Mr. Bloodworth.
A considerable debate ensued on this motion,
■which was finally carried in the affirmative the
ayes and noes being as follow : t
A Y KS.
it-
*r
fii
H
Messrs. A (he, Baldwin, Bloodworth, Brown,
Burke, Clvmer,Coles, Contee, Fitzfimons, f loyd,
Gale, Gerry, Griffin, Hartley, Heifter,
ton Tackfon, Livermore, Madison, Mathtwi,
Muhlenberg, Page, Parker, Scot, Seney, Sever,
Sherman, Sylvelter, Steele, Stone, Stui ges, bump
ier, Tucker, Vining, White. 35-
' NOES.
Messrs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, Cadwalla
der Falter, Gilnian, Goodhue, Grout, Lawrance,
Leonard, Partridge, Renfellaer, Schureman,
Sedgwick, Smith (M.) Smith (S.C.) Thatcher,
Trumbull, Wadfworth, Wynkoop.——2o.
The other amendments Were agreed to.
The House then took up the amendments ot
the Senate to the funding bill, and made lome
progress therein.—; —Adjourned.
FRID/Y, JULY 23.
The house proceeded in the confuleration of
the amendments proposed by the Senate to the
Funding Bill. ,
On morion of Mr. Gerry, the interest on Inoents
was raised from three to jour per cent. pr. ann.
The term of" ten year,,'' the period at which
one third of the principal was proposed to be
funded, was altered to seven years. 1 hcie with
the rate of redemption, at 8 dolls, pr. ann. on ac- |
count of principal and inteteft, which the Senate
proposed should be at 7 dolls, pr. ann. were all
the alterations made by the house this day.
On the proposition for the aflumption of t
State debts, beingread, Mr. Jackson moved that
the house ihould disagree to the amendment—
Mr. Tackfon enforced his motion with a lengthy
speech and was replied to by Mr. Smith, (S. L.)
and Mr. Sherman.
Mr. Gerry made a few remarks —and then th
house adjourned without a decition—till To-mor
row, II o'clock.
«)
4*.
V*
m
hit
■I Mt
CjlllJ
I'lkfc
K»
it takr
at ii i
fnouid
l>fk>
d«j*
H tkt
IWI
'I*
'ihrf*
ibjpA if
Jmcm-
quttitt
mmK
lid) A
n*r»
A*
in is)
i Hi*
cfidince;
crmisd,
iv<
[Ml Wit
t«o(fc
I mic
fa««*
: ofj«li"
" Conversation is the criterion oj a/most every man i
tutelicitv.al went."
WE arc often disposed to pay a compliment to
men for then abilities and retfitude, upon
a very flight and fuperficial acquaintance. 1 Ins
liafty mode of estimating characters expoies us to
a degree of deception, and makes us value some
too hi oh and others too low. ihe talents ot a
man, no more than his difpofitien can be aker
tained without a strict fertiuny, and being con
versant with him on ordinary occasions, and in
the familiar walks of life. While men are in the
mere exercise of profeffional duty, or are exam
ined only bv the view they exhibit when acting
in a public 'capacity, they aflame artificial lonns,
and display borrowed abilities.
Some porfons indeed have the addreft t0
their real character always out of fight. They
will never «pose themfelvesto the tulnefs ofdo
meftic infpsctio'.i, being persuaded that they' may
risque the loi's of reputation 111 private, which tl ej
have obtained in public. For this real on, it is pru
dent for men who have acquired some fame an
influence for their abilities, to adopt a c..utious,
reserved mode of conversation. hveiy pei 011
who indulges liimfelf in an unrestrained .cope o
conversation, will, in some moments of inadver
tency, difeover follies and weaknel es, which a
more discreet rule of behavior would have con
cealcd. It is of utility to mankind that some
perfuns in focietv fimuld be viewed with aa.hign
vUhpeO'
Jeciiae t«
tWMi b«
fclxke
ilo»*
rfyr;
K«tkoa
; W' 1 *
iinkej»-
uiltfp"-
lit*-)
iit*i \
K Si
l,pr«y
iced 10
.pg/et-
the >"•
i *&*
U; tb s
lit, x" 1
:e,tf
faixW
the °r-
THE TABLET. No. CXXXIV.
degree of refpetft, atid be supposed snote
than ordinary difcernnient and rectitude. It is
of more importance to the World that a man Ihould
reiider himfelf refpetftable by his wjfdomandfo
briety ; than that he ftiould aim at being a g re< ; _
able by gaiety and affability; The truth is, if
we were intimately acquainted V/ith all men, we
should conlider them as tob nearly alike to pay
that refpedl to some, and feel that detestation for
others, which the good management of society !
absolutely requires. A high ftaee *f civilization
is founded on artificial circumfta.ncrs ; and it can
only be preserved by a forced departure from the
intrinsic character of things. We must admire
objedls and men who pofleft slender pretentions
to admiration ; and we mnft reprobate others
without examining too critically Jfhc grounds or
detestation. -
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNI
On the lite DoElor BENJAMIN FMNKLIN.
J_ H' unnumber'd spheres o'er boondSeftfpacc that roll,
The busy tenants of each bill, ;
Myriads that walk, or flv, or fwim ( «r cr»wl,
The compound of creation's ample wholfl.
Are few—conira&ed —and contin'd,
When meafur'd by theGReAT CneAT»».'s mtsd
Each being he aftgn'd a deftin'd court',
Ibanklin toprop a finking Rate.
And now t' arrest impendinj fate,
And checkthe lightning's force.
T« aiiki in in mercy to Columsi a
To blast a tyrant's schemes, and ward the wrath a. hea->'«,
3 '
What tho retir'd from mortal ken,
Each flafli from heav'n conviftioa gives,
That Franklin still in essence lives
To guide, and guard thfc sons of men.
Forever sacred be that precious earth,
Which gave to f»eh a Genius birth.
By space cr »at F* a mtL in ne'er could beconfind,
He foar'd above all human bounds,
Yet when in this small fpherehe walk'd his rounds,
His vast capacious foul embrae'd all hu man kind.
His fame and bleflings equally #*tend,
And the world hails him universal friend
At length his fwellingfoul has burst the clod,
And mounting o'er th' empyreal height,
And urging on its rapid flight,
Now beams an emanation ot the Goo.
Henceforth diftinguilh'd (hall Coi.um»la (hine^
The parent of a genius more than ha.f divine.
6.
Let black oblivion blot th' ungenerous page
Which giddy Raynal falfcly ftain'd.
When he forgot the felf-taught Sage,»
And fail Coiumha impiourtv profan'd.
Hot.- t», the Critica («y, woti'd fomeunns nod,
So R\v nai might forget thfKO.ttir work Of God.
" *0n doll tire ftonnf que sAm nquc "'art titeon ptedu-tta
ton Poitt, UH habile Htthmaticif, un homy 4c g""',J""' «»/«'
all, cu un, fcule ft,nee." Abbe Raynal.
PHILADELPHIA, July 9.
On Saturday evening last Colonel MarinUS VV u
let with Col. Alexander M'Gillivray and twen
ty eight chiefs of the Creek nation arrived in this
city' They will shortly proceed to vilit the Con
gress of the United States, in order to conclude
treaties, which, we hope, will secure peace to our
f#utherai brethern. These chiefs were received
by our citizens with every mark of attention.
The bells were rung ; the artillery fired a fede
ml salute, and with the light intantry companies
escorted the chiefs to the Indian Queen, where
lodgings were prepared for them ; and a great
number of people afl'einbled to behold the largelt
body of Indians, that has appeared in this metro
polis for many years. Yelterday they attended
divine service at Christ church.
Dr. Franklin fays—(for tho dead heyet fpeak
ethl it has been computed by some political
arithmetician, that if every man and woman
would work for four hours each day on something
ufeful, that labor would produce fufficient to pro
cure all the neceflaries and comforts ot lite
want and misery would be ban.shed out of the
world, and the reft of the 24 hours nnght be lei
sure and amusement.
nkw-yoßk, July 24
CREEKS.
Weinefday last arrived in this city Col. Alex
ander M'Gillivray, and the Kings, Chief ,
and Warriors of the Cre«k nation, efcortedby
C °A Packet"under the direction of Major Stagg,
they embarked at that placein the mornmg, and
firedlvrhichwas repeated at the moment of their |
la, The g Society of St. Tammany in their proper
tachment of the Ci j -.r-nrted them to the
waited their avnval wWch they
h ° Ui " e introduced"^the General to The Presl
on His Excellency The G Scclie .
535
•ED STATES.
of the Slate of Georgia—Gen. Malcolm tlicMi«
litary Officers on duty—and the Officers ot the
Society of St. Tammany. ,
The public curiosity was greatly excited—and
the multitude immense, which cClletfted on this
Our visitors appeared to be greatly pleated
with their polite and friendly reception—and the
public demonstration of fatisfadtion at the o«ca
lion of their long journey to the Great Council 01
the States. ,
Names of the Chiefs oj the Creek Ahtm, now in this City.
t Colonel Alexander McGi lli vray,
( Tufkcna'ah, or big lieutenant, )
, \ Homatah,or leader, V. 4
)Chickwockly Mico, C llc s *
(Mico Nomalthls, andtwo young Warriors.)
IFutkatche Mico, or bird tail King,
Fufikiah Mico, or Warrior King, I
NealthTock, or second Man, Cuffitah Chic .
Tufkeegie Tuftunegie, or big fear,
Halletemathle, or blue giver. J
< Opay Mico, or the Singer, ? 2 ch ; e f s f rom little Tallafce.
2 5 Totkcfhajou-Samoniah. i
t Stimatejie, or Hank, Her. J- Atbaraa Chief.
< Stimafmchkee, or good humor, 1 £ rom t |, e Coofades.
5 ; and four other Warriors. ]_
5 Chinabie, or theg\tit Notches Warrior, J From thtNotches
* ) and three young Warriors, I .
f Ochee Hajou, or Aleck Cornel,2 Chief'from
! (soholtfTe, or young second Man, j Tufkibatch).
f TalliflFee King, and Holatah, or the Hue, 1 J*' I'®*1'®*
3 tvi two Tallajee Warriors, J
3 ° Davia Francis, s young half breed, Kin/mm to Col. NUGilhvriy.
David Tate, Kef hew to Col. McGitlivray.
Mr. Cornel, The Interprete\. . .
A correspondent observes, that the situation ot
the Poft-Office bill is truly critical.—The Houte
of Representatives are strenuous to have Itxty
Pott-Matters'General.— The Senate are averse to
more than ONE.—But the people being great
ly interested in this queftion> and the public
mind having anticipated and approved the plan
of SIXTY—it follows that the people are in a
fairway of having no new regulations at all—bn«
at an expense greatly overbalancing the benefit.
If sixty Pott Matters' General are lixty tunes
better than one, the amendment of the Senate
to the Poft-Office bill isa most abominable unpo
pular amendment. .
The Virginia Independent ChWrtiicle gives an
account of she Lead Mines in that State-in which
there are between 50 and 60 men employed——
there are seven pitts of 70 fefct in depth, which
are so productive, that from 6 to 8 tons of Ore
may be raised in aday—prefent appearances in
dicate that thefource is inexhaustible—and that
(uch additions are making to the works, that m
the course ot the entiling year fafhcient may be
procured and manufafturedfor the consumption
of the United States. From authentic informa
tion of the above tenor,the Houfc ot Reprelenia
tives ot the United States has been induced to
enhance the duty on imported lead of all kinds.
A letter from Halifax* dated June 30, fays, a
fefiel is just arrived fromGlafgow, which left it
he 28th May, when the British fleet was in full
-omraiffion, upwards of forty fail ot the line pa
•ading the channel-but no answer was received
from the Court of Spain.
Extra{l of a letter from Boflon, dated July 18.
" 1 have read with attention andpleafure the
< DiCcourfes on Davila," and think they contain
excellent principles and maxims—l with our po
iticians would read them with deliberate conh
leration. —I also with the Aflembly of France
night read them, for unless they attend to the
principles of government therein contained, I
ear their revolution may end in tyranny.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. mW-YORK.
Brig Minerya, Bell, Lilbca, 4a day®
Rachel, - Duff, Litnrick, 44
Satisfaaion, Chnftie, St. Vincent, 21
Schooner Friends Adventure, Parker, ihelburoe, 3
Sloop Charles, White. Norfolk, 5
Brothers, Rhoden, St. Johns, >3-
7ufl frubli/kcd,
[„ II Vols. bound and leaded) and to be fold by the Edttor of
this paper, Price 13s.
MEMOIRS
bloomsgrove family,
n » series of LETTERS to a refpeftable Citizen of Phila-
DELPHIA.
Containing Sentiments on a
MODE of DOMESTIC EDUCATION,
Suited to the present state of Society, Government, and Maimers, in
the United States of America,
And on the Dignity and Importance of the
FEMALE CHARACTER.
InterfperCed with i variety of intc.etting ANECDOI .
By ENOS HITCHCOCK, D. D.
The following account of the above, is coM in a letter to a gen-
J tleman in this city.
« The design of this work, is to Ihow the great .mporunce of
, 1,, pxhibitioff the portrait ot a family in whicti
early education, b> cx^lbl^ l "S P . famil wcrc a s on ar d
a&fesKK
is left to the reader's imagination to place Kin w P
jica he pleases.The ADDRESS of the Convention of South-Carolina,
prefnted by the Senators and Members of the
Houft-of Representatives from that Stat:
TO ■THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
S I R,
the people of the St<Ueof South-CaroHna, now met ax.d
V V fitting in Convention, leave to addrclsyou, and to em
brace this firft opportunity which has been afforded us of congra
tulating you on the high and important station of Prcfident of the
-ntted States. Such, fir, has been the impreflion made upon the
public mind by a due sense of your eminent fcrvices, and such
the atFccliyn of a nation, wliofe dearest rights you have defended,
that one wish pervaded the whole continent of placing )ou at the
head ot the Federal Republic, and of enjoying under your pro
tection, as our firfl magistrate, the bleflings of that free govern
ment, for the attainment of which we are so much indebted to
your exertions as our general. The promises of your eailier life,
had prepared your fellow-citizens for your acceptance of the
military command in 1775, when dangers and difficulties sur
rounded us on all fiaes, arid the profpe6l was dark and gloomy; but
tfiey mult ever remember with gratitude and admiration the wif
<-om and energy ot that system, which could induce men accuf
♦rr.cd to the most perfect equality to submit to the rigorous du
s ? cainp, and thus convert the tumultuary array of an tin
cifc:,>..nc.d yeomanry into a permanent force, capable of making
lt,e veter.ifi army of our enemies. With similar fen
imem? do they call to piind the efforts of that heroic fortitude,
which not in the wo.ft of umrt, but rose foperior to
•very imsfartunr, infuGngnew spirit into the boforns of an unfor
tunate army, and animating them by the force of example to un
cergo the fevered toil with alacrity, and to endure with pcrfe-er
ance the molt accumulated distress.
It was the will of an all-wife Providence, that the great ob
je«a we were contending for should not be attained without some
difficulty, and that wt frould be taught to observe and to value
ft)c virtues which spring up in adversity ; but the time of our fe
veic trial was at length terminated—thecloud which had hovered
over us so long was at length dispelled, and the f, n of American
J; lory appeared tn its full splendour : to have borne this change
'ortune with equanimity, to have employed the lail hours of
command in reconciling our gallant fold.ers to a disappointment
which their long fuffermgs during the war had but ill prepared
them for ; and having checked the rage of civil discord in it, in
fancy, to have relignod all power, and cheerfully descended into
the walks of privatelife, arc circumstances that mud forever ill
umine the page of history, and which, as they cart never be ef
faced tiom our remembrance, so we trust they will be dte D ly en
graven upon the minds of our posterity
To tr.nfmit to that posterity the fpin't of a free canilitution in
""' ve P u r,"y ,s,h <" ho P c wl "d' animates us all; we hope also,
that they will learn from us to cherifo every P rateful fentimem
towards you, Sir, and that they will be proud, as we are, to par
ticipate individually in the honor which America may so iuftly
claim to herfelf, of haying produced a citizen, whose love of
ry was devoid of ambition, whose view embraced no objects but
the freedom and the happinefi of.hts countrymen ; whose interitv
RininJrlh mO / f un!joundrd confidence, and who com
bining the prudence of retreat, wt>, all the aOive valour of atta-k
was .t once the ft,eld and thefword of his native country The
tranquil,ty of retifmeni after the danger, ot war and the fatigues
of public life, is one o. tho/e regards which exalted merit feenu
fnJ C „ n * t0, T j Ut wh ] ch yOU '' .fe'kw-citizens weie copftramcd
to deny you. Independence had been eftablilbed, but the ardu.
ous task or internal Inflation ftrll remained,and the United States
T: h ; * "* ft-o" am^tthe
unr!n I '. r j w t"c | 7 bey 1,311 of right turned , called
upon lor tUis sacred purpose, you have liikned, Su , to the voice
of yDur country—yd u I,ave g !V rn a further p roo f 0 f your neve,-
failing attachment m ht, intetefts, and,we can onlv hop .in tie
warmed wifhrj vvhicia we form for the good of the rmhlic » r ,1
i,lerma r vb m ' o,flr T'' inlhCO ® CeOf ? ' d ' dcnt United?
™i„ y d r . I>CrOUS " y ° Ur iCCrp """ " f "h« h"-
heZs rnv r fl ''; S 7' , h^ hUS g ' V 'u g W ' y t0 thc cffur ' ons <>f
™? f Ld 1V U f e , Upon , !' at '" nr which is devoted to the
general good, but conclude with-offerinz up our pravcrs to the
$reat Father of the un.verfe, that he may be pleased to shed his
nfluence over all your councils, and that having saved you, coun
ry and given an awful lelTon to all mankind, you ma/final^n
the fullnefs ofyour years, close the long glories of an illuftiiouS
the'eon I fT'f g ° nfcioufncfs ° f h "ing deserved, but with
leforft rf- n r"'' 6 ' 10 " °' t,avin S received''every proof of
tizfns " m fr " m o thc t hca "- fclt K'«""de of your fellow-ci.
• B y < hc vhammous void of the Convention,
Clbxiii, 3:J , , 79 o HARLES P,^'KXhV
The PRESIDENTS Anfvtr.
To the People «/the State of South Carolina,
TFsilow Cifiz<Ns,
H r,roii SritUlalory , •^ rtrS ° f ' hC PC °P ,C ° f ,he °f SOU.h
, «, OI e!^ aion to 'hcofficcofPrcfidentofihe Uni
ted S.ates exprelfcd in fitfh'forcible and endearing term., lff c £h
me with the livela-a emotifanj of fatisfaftion, and induces me to
tT»* Clr \ C pt3 "" of m y r ' nccTett acknowledgments,
rialtirmg ii nt rauft have been to me to find the extraordinary
unanimity of the people of the United States,' in placing me at the
head of their fedora l I am still more pleased with the re
colleflion of the manly conaud on their party which in tbe tffim
«f an arduous struggle, put them in a cnl.no'n the
fmgs of a free government. It was ow.ng to (heir ftcidy >ud ftre
nuous support, With the fm.les of a gracious Providence that 1
did not f,„k under the oppression I U from a diffidence in mv
abilities to ccmduft their military operation!. It was a diftrrflin*
2" 'hT°"' "T f ° g ""f ' Avk b < byS
gle falfeftep on the part of their General. But hi fucha cause al
though furroundjd with difficulties and dangers On every fide'and
the moft'f. dirk a "f g, " omy P rof P cfts . 'twould have argued
i HK f6 a r n all ft t f L,b " ty 'h fi^ tinSown native hnd i
' V ll sutfr " m r cn , l ?°' d ? car . whose docility fooo fun
plied place of difciplme ;Jt was fcd'cely in human na* »
der ~s worst character/to have abaud^lhennnXTr'^S"
v" V n °, r so s mcl ° rld,,n C'ngulariitlc to merit, for ha
ving shared in a common danger, and triumphed with them after
iZssaZ"*" d —
diffir he t Va ' U r ° f lib " ty thus enhanced in ourePimation by the
difEcu'tv of its attainment; and the worth of ctarafters apnrecia
fed by the ecial of adversity, The tempest of war having at Wth
been fuccecded by the sunshine of peace, our citizem-foldiers^n
prelTtd an ufeful lesson of patrionfm on mankind, by nobly , e ~
turning, wuh impaled constitutions and unfalisficd elaims as er
luffermgs and fevcre disappointments, to Sorm.,
occupations. Poftenty, as well-as the present age will douhiW
aln " h , ad . n1 ' ra ' 10 " Jn<l gratitude the patience, perseverance'
alor which atchieved atir revoluiion ; they will cherish the
remembrance ofv.r.ues which had but few parX, in
of a hiCv. Wh ' d ' W ' iUdd ncwluftr<:to lt *n.oft splendid page'
v ifh*W«pp r - d 7V nrPCC I,' l '7A just - fub j efl l bf ««l'«ion, and '
" F 1 "'' cw 1111 it is in bcinj the citizen of a
country, whole inhabitants were so enlightened and diiintejeftcd
ai to facnfice local prejudices and temporary fyfteins tor the fake
of rendering secure and permanent that Independency, which had
bec-n the price of so much trcafure and blo*d. Animated with a
hope of tranlmitting to poller ity the fpintofa free cqnftitutiou in
ltshattve purity ; they have, fincc tlie conclusion of the war, evin
ced the re&itude of the:r principles, as well as proved themfelvcs
by their piadice, woithy of their successes.
tor inyfclf, notwitlift,a ndmg my former intentions and decla
rations, I could not hesitate to return to public life, when, from
all the circumltances within my knowledge, I had colle&ed it to
be my duty, because it was apparently wifti of a .whole ..ation
Nor shall I regret the Iqfs of that tranquility in retirement, which
iny time of life and of health seemed in some measure, toau
tho rife and require ; if I may fl 11 be an mftrument of any good to
that country, which has continued ro aflifl my adminiflration witji
men generous and unlimited confidence.
I pray you to be persuaded, that while I deceive with great sen
sibility, such repeated proofs of the partiality of myjfellow citizens
in my favor, I feel encrcafing obligations to devote my labors un
remittingly to the public service ; and with the of the
great Father of the UnSverfe on our councils, to use my belt endea
vours that the American people, who have of right aUUmed an in
dependent station amongst the nations of the earth, should forever
remain a great, refpc6table and happy nation.
rF . , GtORGE WASHINGTON.
United Sates, Juty 3, 1790.
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
tO BUSHED
| CONGRESS OF THE VtiITZDSTATis : ,
» , . TH * SECOND. lIUION.
" the City Of Nfew-Yprk, on Slond.y the foolth
J«nu»ry, one thouknd reven hundred and ninety.
An ACT jmpofiiig Duties on the Tonna« of
' _ . Ships oi- Veffeli.
B s£fj d J y "" °f R'pTtftntativis of the United
ft r ° n the COafl, 0r on * ™ig»ble n
or Whale F.lherie, whilst employed therein rnVr? a? a n once" a
*27 ftl ', P c° r »« of
£aaaTt'^
.a^SrS' i :. , iM, b '' '„» -™ r I.W rcflion „,, he
tificate of rfgiftrv or enrollment, and a licence fca X fi
sasatsa;
afterwards, reftituiion thereof {hall bt i , C ? P a y me »t or
3&BS»dMs3?fc
tinue in force. P t ' lc £"d ast (lull con-
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
JOHN ADAMS,'
a».ov„, JOIY
THOMAS JEFFERSON. Secrctar,
CHARLESTON, J u ] y
publk cfllvirfkHbl, 0 "he f ° T UCh • I thC fub j eA of
perhaps not less of
than was the famous Baitilp T I conflne '»ent
.h. ofPoXfS; fay."".
gal, was diverted of ill T f Portu
his numerous creatures iliV' to g ether with
precipitated the nation to of"
U p^dan g U ;oL erS n^r P l° P ! ) e °4 ra " ks
for more tha/tvventJ XT' *' ° f P ° M > w, '°
and afflicted the Dublin • g'levoufly oppreflt-d
f
!uftamcd on scanty St?™ St*
536
'ATES.
( a fiili J'tiewbluig.a sprat) and hroa ( a v „„ .
tenor kind of bread) without ever beL"f i*
ed in any social ime.courfe, without eve, r -S'
ilie cheering face of man. Ceill i
Among those who were liberated in conf P „
of the difmiJlion of the dereited Pomba! " ft
hibitedaftriking fpec'tacle in the pcrfo Uo f/j*
son of the marquis of Tavora. He wastat
te curtody with the reit of his family wl
was only about fourorfive yearsold and e " ' le
remained in a state of confinement 'till h "" Hl g
to years of maturity, without a li
creature, except his keeper ; when releallTi"
absolutely knew no language, had no ide ,
was in a pure Itate of nature. A few mon^u , c
ter his removal from thednn-reon, where i, .
been confined upwards of fJZween yl *
unhappy youth t was attacked, by the
which occalioned his death. l ;ox »
FOR SJLE ~~~~ '
The IRON WORKS
Belonging to the Kfiatc of james HUNTEit •' ,
plcafantly situated On lift fall, of Rappahannock^ 4
11. two miles of the town of FredericMburg, and on- of ■ ' 'V
and Tide-Water Confiding „t 3 forgef t«
fires, and four hammers—a C.alHoufe, 80 Itvt by io-j S!Va'
and Rolling Mill, 68 feet by 30, lor Sheet, Rolled 2 n-Ui 1
A MerchantM,M 7 o fcct«, V»h
whereof Trench Burr, and every other n-cefl*rv a
manicuring Flour in the beil method - A Saw Mm IT'
n f,me > 60 f «<>y I'be walls ol all , h-fe buddid'JC'!!
Hone, extremely (Wong and neat, of the best workman,
runn'nggeerf. machinery and fixtures of the whole, comraitflj
and d' ' yCO " ,nVCd ' and r >erformc ' l in the most m
and advantageous manner, on large and ircprov-rd pl ln ,
dirtererit departments are conveniently disposed and a™,',,J
prop, r diQanres, on a deep and capacious caret! calculated f
supply more large and exte,.five works, and future i mnr „' A '
""h°f«od r d3n r g " aVdrd against c,fual,us f,om l«lS£+
' ,B °ds ; has its source in the main body of the liv-r ■ ,
pious proportion whereof, to any reasonable dearer C °"
is at pleafur, collefled and turned in by , „X %
rai&rufled tlrong dams, 1 which have not broke, nr ™ tn
Ml* r.k"" nn3t,on ' ncar nineteen years past. —The h«J JJ
fall of the water op-rating on the wheels, is about twTO , ,« *
ticgreateft part of the works arc in good repair and the »>v.l'
may be rendered so a, a f.nall ex pence. In the ap end
to, are a convenient Tanvarrt, variety of lhops and ut™f,U
mechanical bufinef. 6f different kinds, houses for the M,!
Workmen, &c.-And about ~0 800!. acres of Lf 6 H
" ten(,ve . a "d fertile country, I there lea !
nor a
s; z"£ s '" m "* l -• ■■
ADAM HUNTER, or ) -
■». . ~ „ ABNER. VERNON. ( "«»«>"•
Virginia, May sB, 1790. ' , ■
Virginia, May sB, 17 go.
New-York City Lotten
SC /W M /l°^ L S )T // R Y' f ° r thf P«pofcofra,6„,fe,n t ,
mrc ,It t(i" ' a « rcablc tn an ACT of thtltgifla.
ture of the State of New-York, paired Bth February, , 7 00
SCHEME.
• PRIZE of £. 3OCO £- 3 „ m
1 oco o COO
s°° 1500
2 00 2000
2
3
io
3°
■5°
120
180
7950
8346 Prizes, J
if 0,54 Blanks, 5 2 5 00 ° Tickets, at 40;. each, £.jc»o»
Tul , , i u H e^. to ■' dedtiflion of Fifteen per Cent.
I th,S LOTTKRY b «"gra.fc a part oFthefun
TY HAT i' ( 1C or P orac ' on for repairing and enlargingtheCl
fo mi. h t ? accom m°dation of CONGRESS, wkichdwj
~er^ n °r t0 the L Arthitea ' as well a, credit to thedty. The
cur iji mn f rC . UI7IC ? I fallow Citizens will cheerfullycoor
this I oTfrr° "!? r C Tickets, efpeciallv as tbe success of
be laid t W1 '' r r 1C l C rom a tax. which must otherwise
belaid to reimburse the Cdfppration.
to jdvVn'n C*iEME is calculated in a manner very beneficial
T& "°1 b J ci "g two bl "ks to a prize. 7
Mown 1S ,lUen^cc * 10 commence drawing on the Fi*st
nmire wi! K ' GUST " CXt ' 0r fon,,cr lf of which timely
numbc,s wiUbtJ,b -
Managed he Corporation! 6 ,ÜbfC " berS ' who 'PP° intc4
p AA ° ''°" Ten *V*oh, Abraham Htßßise,
JVer V i" e ;.V u ". T «" , "» John Piktard.
rJl~o 6(AAW/i,1 7g0 .
inratnm fit ar "'S cr ) give police that agrtcaiU to an order aftht Ctr
firfi Monday in 7uguJ """P'fi'^b
°, f Col - ELISHA SHELDON, of Salifborjr,£»
tea nf r c notl^ * hat the Subfcribcrs being appointed Tr ul "
, D °^' S will attend to the buWfc of the*
l . rn!, n° n " ,e f,rfl M °"<W of August next, at the Wr of
ui T l Av **» in laid Salisbury, agreeable to the A&ofAffc™-
dan'r#* C lntcr creditors requires their general atten-
HEZEKI AH FITCH, ) Tri ,A ceS
The Mail Diligence,
, FOR PHILADELPHIA,
r~ L.,, , lerr r-Stairs, at New-York, Ten minutes af<«
">/ 2 fvcr y morning except Sunday.
Stage Office, City Tavern, >
l-w.,d.Wqy, Ncuj-York June 5, 1790. J
if '!/' V/ Jv "' 73 ®3 </ '-Ms piper—Six pence tici
«e patijor them by the Editor.
;;rrn
gODT
3-180/
100
5*
so
10
4'-