PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY *OHN FENXO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 26, c/Vol. ll.]
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FROM THE LETDEN GAZETTE
Pubhlhrd by Stei'hen Luza£.
[A Paper that is considered in Europe asthemoft
authentic medium of intelligence—and as futh
circulates more extensively than any oilier
similar publication.]
CONTINUED.
JIAMBUXC H, 2 March.
WE learn from WarsaW, tharthe Marquis de
Lucchefini, his PrufTian Majelty's Envoy,
has returned the 18th Feb. from Berlin, and in
the last place from Dresden. The ifl'ue ef his
liegociations are laid to be, that the eletftor ot
Saxony faithful to his principles of moderation
and wisdom which have hitherto secured the hap
piness of his fubjefts, will embrace the lyftem of
neutrality, in cafe of a rupture with Germany—
to render which respectable, he will arm himfelt,
which resolution is carrying into efFe.fl, by orders
for aflembling the Saxon army the beginning of
this month at Spremberg.
Extratt of a letter from Geneva, 27 Feb.
" Justice has at length prevailed over private
interest, and every other pallion, which in repub
lies induce one party to oppress the other. Such
of the representing party, as were still in exile,
have been restored to their former condition and
places, which they occupied before the revolu
tion of t 782. The proposition was at firft agreed
to in the council of two hundred. The lefler coun
cil adopted it next—and the General Council (auc
tioned it by a plurality of 954 voices against 120.
When the news of this resolution was publilhed,
a general joy announced the common wish ot the
•whole city. This return of concord is regarded
in Geneva as the fruit of the French revolution.
They write from Berlin, the ad March, that by
virtue of a convention concluded with Poland,
the city of Dantzick, on this fide the Warta, \v ill
pass under the Pruifian dominious the jt ft J.uly
next.
PARIS ACCOUNTS. tel. 28
In the felfion of this day when the Abbe de
Montefquiou was declared for the second time
Prefldent of the Aflembly, the tollowingarticles,
respecting the organization »j the army, were de
creed. _ „
Artit/e i.—The King is the Supreme Chief of
the army.
Art. 2. —The army is eflentially designed to
fight against the eueiuics of the country.
Art. 3. No body of foreign troops can be in
troduced into the kingdom, nor admitted into
the service of the State, but by virtue of a legi
slative body, seconded by the King.
Art. 4. The pay necellary for the army (hall
be fixed by succeeding legislatures.
Art. J. Neither the succeeding legislatures, nor
the Executive power shall abridge the right which
every citizen has to be admitted to all military
employments and promotions.
Art. 6. No military soldier or officer shall be
deprived of his employment but in consequence
of legal judgment.
Art. 7. Every military person in service, (hall
preserve his right of residence, notwithstanding
his ueceflkry abfenceby service. He (hall be ca
pable moreover ofexercifing every function of an
aflivc citizen, if he poflefs the other qualifications
required by the decrees of the National Alfembly,
and if at the time of election, he be not in gar
rison, in the Canton where his residence is situa
ted.
Art. 8. Every military person, who shall have
served for fmeenyears without interruption and
reproach, (hall enjoy, in the fulleft manner, the,
rights of an ailive citizen, and (hall be freed from
the neceflity of holding property, and paying the
contribution required to be eligible.
Art. 9. On the 14th of [oly annually, all the
military corps Ihall take the ch<ie oath.
Art. 10. The Minister of War, and other mi
litary agents of the Executive Power,are fubjetft
to velponfibility, in the manner and form asftiall
V>e eft blithed by the Conflitution.
Art. ii. The venaliiy of every military em
ploymeiit is (iippreflcd
r l _
■Art. 12. The AHembly alfodecrees as a consti
tutional article, that it belongs lo each legisla
ture to enact annually, xft. The Ann necefliiry
lor the expences of the army. 2d. The number
i>fmen of which the army ihall be conipofeil. 3d.
The pay of each grade. 4th. The rules of ad
SATURDAY, JULY 10, 1790-.
million to promotion in each grade, jth. The
form of enrolment, and conditions of engage
ments. 6th. The aduiillion of foreign troops in
the service of the nation. 7th. The laws relative
to military crimes and punUhments. Bth. The
treatment of the army in cafe of Hilbanding.
Art. 13. The Aflembly moreover decrees, that
the committee of Conltirucioii fliall be charged
to prepare as quick as possible, ilrafts of laws,—
1 ft. Respecting the einployu er of the military
farces in the interior part of nie kingdom, and
their connection both with the civil power, and
the National guards. • 2d. Refpecftingthe organ
ization of tribunals, and the forms of military
judgment. 3d. Refpe<fting the means of recruit
ing and augnifenting th,e military forces, in time
of war, suppressing the drafting of the militia.
Art. 14. it finally decrees, that the King fli ill
be requeued to present immediately to the Na.
tional Aflembly, a plan of orgmization, to ena
ble the AHembly to enarl and deliberate without
delay, relpecfting the different objedls, which are
to originate from the legislative power.
Art. 15. The National Aflembly moreover de
crees, that the pay of every French soldier, com
mencing from the ift May next, (hall be aug
mented to 32 deniers, obieiving the nfual gra
dual proportions.
Accounts from Brussels, 11 March
The Grand Duke of Tufcany has sent a memo
rial to the States of Brabant, exprelfing his disap
probation of the measures which led to the revo
lution, proposing a general amnesty, and terms
of reconciliation, grantingevery thing the States
formerly claimed from the late Emperor. Let
ters were also received from the Arch Dnchefs
Maria Cleriftina of Austria, and Duke Albert of
Saxe Tefchen, all which the States have ordered
to be printed and sent back to the General Cun
grefs. From the spirit which animates the Be!-
gic nation, there is no probability that the pro
portions, .however reasonable, will be attended
to.
Tlie'uifputes between rheofigf chy and demo
crarical party have in forae measure been com
promised. The form of the oath to be taken by
the volunteer companies has been so qualified
as to have been accepted by them. After taking
the oath the . Volunteers unaniinoufly elected
Duke d'Pvfel their commander in chief.
[OR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
41 Hear Spartans, and obey the voice divine,
M That iltues from Apoi lo's faered (hrinc ;
u Let Kingi, the guardians of the S artan name,
44 And awful Sekatis, righteous liatutes frame ;
14 Thefc let th' a (Tenting people ratify,
44 And keep unbroken order's sacred tie."
FEAR' GOD, AND HONOR THE KING,
were formerly among some oftlie firft leflons
taught our children—and doubtless a very ufeful
one—to intlil thus early a jnft regard to the
protecting and ruling powers, is laying the bell'
foundation for an easy participation under their
genial influence.
The Americans under a government, so mild
and yet so equal, are indulged to exercise, unre
strained, every faculty they poflel's.—The licen
tious perhaps, in such circumltances may have
far too much liberty, but the more virtuous un
der the fame, may Lmprjve and enjoy all that
men can wish, and freemen are heirs to. While
a people are lb unlimited in their pursuits, it is
not indeed unnatural they ihould form a system,
or scale to ad; upon, not diflimilar to their go
vernment ; and we have too melancholy proofs
of this in some of the States, to doubt the truth
of the observation, that an example from govern
ment of chicanery and repeated violations of
their moll: solemn engagements with the public,
and a want ot an honeit liability in their laws,
has the most direful effecl on individuals in their
private tranfatfiions with each other.—Hence
the neceflity and ftimulous (if in a political view
only), for those who are so dignified as to com
pose the grand council of the nation, and on
whose deciiions so much is now depending, to
be the most exemplary in every step in their
private walks as well as public conduct —and to
weigh every motion, and its tendencies, (as well
what on firft view may appearto have a limited
efFedt, as those which aflame a bolder crell, ye
unexpectedly eud in vapour), with the utmoil
caution, gravity and confeious integrity ; and
pursue the most eligible, with a firmnefs becoiu
ing the fathers of a country. As it is the cha
racleriftic of our countrymen to seek for evi
517-
deuce, or at least a plausibility si o:h their own
reafonitig, of the ufef\ilnj?fs of a liieafure, before
they will acknowledge the lame as a child of
their own—this urges the neceility ofthe greater
circumfp'ftttion ; for they have not the most dil
tant idea of that prodigy in government,to believe
implicitly- (as is universally the cafe in the old
world) all is right, because the king, or their
own havedone it, andfo (hut the
door against enquiry Mid research ; one of
most gratifying, and probably one of the molt
ufeful privileges, to republicans, that we enjoy.
The consequent prejudices of a beaten track are
not yet erased, though it might indeed be sup
posed, that fields of clotted blood from our very
belt citizens, would now effectually cover every
trace of congeniality, and Tike the silent grave
lei jarate us forever from the least affinity, both
in laws, rules and manners to that country
which was once our greatelt pride to call, like
the pratling babe, mother, altho we had no real
wants.—To this cause 1 am ready to impute one
ofthe groll'ell of errors, that darkens every page
in all our rules ot court—although no people
ever had so fair an opportunity, to benefit from
leflonsof felf-experience, from every nation in
the world, and from many centuries palt—but a
wilful blindness is sure the malady.
The greaiefl boalt of an Englishman is said to
be his 1 ight of rryal by jury—and in words pom
pous enough, the fame has been conveyed to us.
—In theory it has an engaging appearance ; and
as it is sacred in its deciliou, I hold it in jufl elti
mation, and would not, a3 has certainly been the
cafe, that Lawyers, where lucre has been depend
ing on the iflue, and the verdidi has run counter
to their flatteringengagements with their clients,
fliould have their taunting scurrility to this higli
eft of all appeals, pass with impunity. To have
a cause depending on a jury, composed of my
own fellow citizens and neighbours, I cannot but
venerate the eftablilhment- ; but the juror's tryal
(for so 1 call it), without the right of appeal, I
hold in the u tut oft horror .ml dcteilaticn—for it
surely is nothing lei's than a Baftile, barricaded
by the flrongeft injunctions of legal dignity.—
And in this lituation, twelve men, must, whether
right or wrong, deliver in their verdict without
one diflenting voice—in the more solemn cases,
where life is depending, 1 do not so much con
demn the method ; even in such cases, I can.
not fee why a large majority could not be asfuf
ficient, as the present deciding mode—But in
common cases, the propriety of room for a pro
portionate number of diflenting voices is evident
to thofewho know, that it is ainoralimpoflibility
for any promiscuous number of men to view the
fante* objects, through the fame medium ; there
fore allowances ought to be made, if any regard
may yet be had, to the lioneft scruples of the
conscientious man—who in such a dilemma has
(for I Jo not doubt my informant) risked his life
in the violent hands ofthe affirming party j or
gorged through the throat of sensibility, acqui
esced in the award raised. by the very firft mem
ber, confident enough toftate the cafe nnder de
liberation in his own way, be it ever so absurd.
—Horrid iketch ! at this day, though no less
true, of the boasted and eftablifheu rules of
American courts of justice.
I wish most ardently, that as our supreme le
gislature are about forming courts, and rules of
courts, the few hints thrown out on this fuhjetfl,
may be adjusted as in their wisdom may appear
moll suitable to the genius of the people. It
must be their liigheft ambition and honor to go
vern well. LYCURGUS.
IMPROVED CRIST-MILL.
WE, the subscribers, being present at the firft
exhibition of Mr. John Britton's Grill-Mill,
on the Iti earn or creek called Dodlor's Creek, ill
the county of Monmouth, and State of New-Jer
sey, formerly owned by William Tapfcott, now
ere«ficd on the plan of the Rotatory Trunk, the
late improvement of Mr. J. llnmfey—and having
been well acquainted wiih the performance of
the water-wheel, formerly afed in the fame, do
give it as our opinions, on due examination, that
less (than half the quantity of water is now ex
panded—and that it grinds the fame quantity of
grain in the fame time, which was formerly done
by the water-wheel.
ir . PWIILIAM TAPSCOT,
Monmouth County, C lsA AC $HREV ES> M ) ller .
J une 2 > 79°' J)Edw.Kilman, Mill-Wright*
[Whole No. 130.]LONDON, Feb. 9.
IT is to be remarked, in justice to the Nuns of
Paris, and its environs, lb greatly libelled in
the speech of Mrs. Jouet, that, though the doors
«f their convent were thrown open, by the de
cree of the National Aflembly, to every Nun who
fliould please so return to society, only four avail
•'rxhenifelves of it—ofthefe Mrs. Jouet was one.
When it was announced in their convents, that
the Nuns who (hould think proper to remain in
them might do so, they resolved to celebrate,
with a grand feftival, their joy, for the glad tid
ings that they were not to be forced from their
favorite cloilters. Accordingly high mass was
lung, and after it aTe Deum. From the palling
of the decree of the Aflembly, which put it in the
power of the Nuns to return to society, their fe
<ji"*ftration may be considered as voluntary—and
as it cannot be luppofed that promises to women,
who, by remaining in their cloisters, can be ca
pable of any but conventual favours, and who can
have nothing to fear from threats but a rigid en
forceinent of the rules of the house, could influ
<nce the Nuns to facrifice their liberty, if they
tiad a wish to recover it, To it is to be prefomed
that Mrs. Jouet went a great deal too far when
Ihe stated that promises and threats had been used
to retain Nuns in their cloilters. Such promises
and threats, if they ever were used, had no effect
Upon her and three others—why then was it to
be supposed that they operated so powerfully with
all the others, as to make them forego the wilhes
of their heart, and prefer the gloom of a cloirter
to the life and spirit of society ?
The order to which Mrs. Jouet belonged, was
extremely ufeful to society. Ihe Nuns who be
longed to it have an hospital, which they support
at their own expence, and where they attend the
lick in person.
The French Aflembly are determined to con
tinue themselves, without going back again to
their constituents—For this put pose, the follow
ing motion was made, and after some lliort de
bate, agreed to, last week.
" That whereas the constituents could not
give their Representatives power to form only a
part of the Constitution—that whereas the oath
taken on the 20th ofjunelaft by tl\e Representa
tives of the people, and which was approved of
afterwards by the nation at large, not to separ
ate until the great work of the Constitution should
have been completed—and that whereas the As
fembly cannot, at this moment, fix the period
■when it can fay that work has been completed,
tho it is far advanced, h hereby declares, that
the powers of the Representatives of the nation,
lliall and do remain in full force, until they shall
have been thoroughly formed, notwithllanding
any limitation fee to them by any body of con
lliruents—and that as soon as the work of the
Constitution is compleated, the Aflembly will fix
the period of its own diflolution, and point out
the time when the constituents/hall proceed to
the election of another Aflembly."
Considering the unsettled state of affairs in
France, we cannot reasonably objed: to such a
motion, provided the Aflembly take care that it
be notconfidered as a precedent—other wife there
is an end to their conlfitution.
EDINBURGH, .Feb. 12
\efterday fen'night a point of honor was ter
'minated at Dublin by a melancholy iflue, between
Dr. Harding and Mr. Beanii/h, two Irifli gentle
men, and lately both Students ofPhyficat the
University of Edinburgh—Mr. Beamish was un
fortunately fliot through the body, and died a -
bout three o'clock. The dispute in which this
unfortunate quarrel was grounded, occured at
Edinburgh, on the 4th of June last, when Dr.
Harding, the party who received the offence,
being then about to take out his degrees, did not,
from prudential motives, demand farisfatfion—
his. journey to Ireland is said to have been prin
cipally excited with a view to this purpose. The
unfortuhate Mr. Beamish received a mortal
•wound in the body, from the firft fire of his an
tagonist, and fell without discharging his pistol.
Dr. Harding and his second hurried immediate
ly off the ground, and are fuppafed to have fail
ed for England. The coach which bore them to
the place carried back the expired Mr. Beami/h
with his friend. • '
PHILADELPHIA June 29,
A new burying-ground for the r*lief of St.
James's Pariih, London, is just opened near Tot
tenhamcourt. The undertakers have introduced
J'uch a degree of novelty and improvement in the
laying out of this ground, as deserves notice :
instead of the mournful afiemblage of pines
elms, and yews, uniting their influence to im
press upon the mind an awful sense of the short
lived vanities of life, you are here presented
•with a brilliant flower garden. Elegant Turpen
tine walks, bordered with flowers and shrubbery,
ruu through the whole extent of the ground.—
The walls are divided into niches, as accurately
nnmbered as the boxes at Ranelagh or Vauxhall,
and the tout cnfejnblcisfo curious as to entitle the
planner to the character of an Original.
LAWS OF THE UNITED STj
PUBLISHED
CONGRIst OF THE UNITED STATES
AT TH.C SECOND SESSION.
Begun and held at the City" of New-York, on Monday the fouith
of January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN atfc for giving effedlto an art, intituled, "an
a<ft providing forthe enumei ation of the inha
bitants of the United States," in refpetflto the'
State of Rhode-Island and Providence Planta
tions."
BF. it evafled by the Sfjiateand House of Representatives of the United
States of /inter tea m Conyfef ajfembted, That the ast pa fled the
present fc flion intituled, 4t An ast providing for the
enumeration of the inhabitants of the United Slates," (hall be
deemed to have the like force and operation within the state of
Rhode-Island and Providence plantations, as elsewhere within the
United States; and all the regulations, provisions, directions, au
thorities, penalties, and other matters whatsoever, contained or
exprtff d in the said ast, and which are not locally inapplicable,
'hall hare the like force and effect within the said State, as if the
fame were repeated ?nd re-rnafted in and by this present act.
Ard be it further enafled, That the Maifhal of the diftrift of
Rhode-Island lhall receive, in full compensation for the perform
ance of all the duties and services confided to, and enjoined upon
him by this ast, one hundred dollars.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejident oj the United States.
and President of the Senate.
Approved, JulV the fifth, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
AN ACT ro authorise the put-chafe of a tradl of
Land for the use of the United States.
BP. it enabled b\ the Senate and houje of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress a/fernMed, That it [hall be lawful
for the Prendent of the United States,and he is hereby authorized to
cause to be purchased for the use of the United States, the whole,
or such part of that trail of land situate in the state of New York,
commonly called Wtft-Point, as (hall he by him judged reqvifite
for the Durpofe of such fortifications and garrisons as may be ne
cessary for the defence of the fame.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States.
and Prejident oj the Senate.
Approved, Ju ly the fifth, 1700.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident oj the United States.
(Tint Coryj
'THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State-
To Ihe memory of Dr. Jose ph Wa rri n, the ceMraU» Orator, who
was slain upon the heights of Charlefiown, fighting for the liberties of
America, on the 17th day of June 1775
OG RE AT reyerfe of Tu 1 l y's coward heart,
Immortal WARREN ! you fuffice to teach,
'i he Orator may fill the Warrior's part,
And aft.vr fouls bejoin'd with fluent fpecch.
Shall not the Speaker who alone could give,
Immortal revivifcence to the dead,
Chaiiw'd to a Hero now, forever live
In fame's eternal roll, with those he led !
Let North andS*NDw IC H take the meaner shame,
Of bluft'rmg woids, unknown to hardy deeds ' •
And callous G superior meritclaim,
In grinning laughter, while his country bleeds.
Boflon's firft lons in prostrate numbers lay,
And Freedom totter'd on dtftruftion's brink •
W ARREN ftcpt forth to folcmnize the day,
And dai'd to speak, what some scarce dar'd to think,
Yet glorious honor ! More than one man's Ihare,
He in h;s latcft, as his earliest breath,
In camp, or forum, equally could dare,
And seal his bold Phillippic with his death. Lucius
THE TABLET No. CXXX.
. " fp*'t of man is liable to extraordinary
degrees of elevation or deprefton, it Jhould be expel
ed that some -mil be the j laves ofcujiom, and others
the movers of innovation.'*
T H £ TTr* ° ffered in m y laft num ber on
« /■,, El »n««afin, may, with some propriety
be fallowed by en Effhy on the fubjeft of Superb
ftition. Though an aberration from a reasonable
faith often proceeds from canfes extremely on.
pofite to each other, yet the delnfion will prin
civflVzed 6 CO s? ft° - peop . ,e ,ittle informed or
civilized. Superftuion is the ofFspring of a
timid,.fervilefpirit, and argues a want of felf-con
fidence , while enthusiasm proceeds from a hea
ae^S U TS^nfid d e'nc a , nd &££ [7
sense, and a knowledge of the world, 'learn ° 0
fr,r n r sfor the ground o fii.
t.onal evidence ; f rom which thev will
diverted b«r a temptr so abjecft as to iLnli
guidance if their own reason r f lt>W th , e
518
'ATES.
ODE,
natural disposition that a psrfonflioutdito either
Presumptuous feelings no less than abject one»
may result from adventitious causes. Yet I ait J
rather inclined to believe the natural propensity
of men participates mod of superstition,
This conclufiou easily offers itfelf from the confi
deration,that a great part of mankind have thro
the prevalence of superstition, given a mod riojd
adherence to forms and ceremonies,of which they
could neither comprehend or explain any ration
al cause.
If the comparative benefits or injuries, that
have been occasioned by enthusiasm and super.
ftition, were to be examined, perhaps no fatisfar*
tory folntion to such an enquiry could be obtain
ed. It seems evident, however, that the peace
and prosperity of the world require that, inaoe
neral way, the votaries of superstition lliould hrt
the inoft numerous. There can be no tranquility
in society unless the bulk of mankind pay averv
sacred regard toeftablifhed rules and institutions
As enthusiasts are theprofefled enemies to what
ever opposes the suggestions of their own fancy it
is obvious that were they tobe numerous, society
mn(t be extinguiflied. Soon the other hand a 'j
tliofe who are ftridtlv fuperftiiious, are foran'j Hl
plicit adherence to old eitabliftiments, it follow-:
that if there were no men of a contrary character
all kind of reformation or improvement would be
at an end. Both of these characters therefore
are eflential ; the one to preserve a tranquil state
of affairs, and to prevent continual tumults and
insurrections ; and, the other to rouse theatien
tion of mankind against theeffsdrsof deep-rooted
errors, and to awaken a spirit of progressive im.
proveinent through the various stages of civiliza.
don.
PORTLAND, June 2 S.
Last: Friday was executed in this town Thoma*
Bird, who at the diltrift court held the firft M.
was convidted of the murder of Capt. Joli» Con
ner, 011 board the Mary, on the coast of Africa.
The number of fpeOlators was judged to be not
less than three or four thousand, who generally
paid a decent attention tothellplemn tranfadion
and religious cxercifes of the day.
N E W-Y O R K, July q.
The fliip America, Capt. Sarly, arrived at San
dy Hook yesterday, after a pleasing paflageof4
months and 22 days, from Canton.—We are in
formed, that on Wednesday night, Dr. Draper,
the Surgeon of the Ship, accidentally fell over
board, and was unfortunately drowned.
Capt. Sarly spoke the Anthony, Puller, from
C anton.—bound to New York, in the ftreightsof
Sundy, all well.
[E<«tKBUR<SH, tffflj.
PROSPECTUS VT
Of an intended new periodical wots.
TO BE CALLED
THE BEE,.
OR,
UNIVERSAL LITER ART INTELLIGENCER.
,To be published weekly:
AND TO CONTAIN,
Besides Original Miscellaneous Letters on Literature
ants the Belles Lettres,
EAR LY accounts of new discoveries in science and useful
arts ; an occasional review of valuable publications at home and
abroad ; extra&s from foreign journals, academical dissertations,
and domestic performances of merit; biographical anecdotes and
memoirs of eminent persons ; notices of the heroic achievements
<>i ancient and honorable families ; observations on the topography
and natural history of Britain and other countries v disquisitions
concerning civil history, and the progiess of the human mind;
poctical essays and translations; debates and distinguished speech*
cs in parliament, and in the political assemblies of other states;
remarkable laws and interesting decisions in courts of justice; 1
concise chronicle of recent events; and a complete list of new pub
lications in Britain, with the prices.
_ f THE WHOL E BEI NC CALCULATED
loturmVh an instructive amusement for the present hour, and
to transmit to posterity a faithful picture of the acquirements,
modes of thinking, prevailing habits, and chief pursuits of men,
in Europe at least, during the period that this work shall con
tinue to be published.
*Y
JAMES ANDERSON, LLD.
FRS. FSA. S.
ffonerary Memler of the Society of Arts, Agriculture, &c. et M,
tfthe Philosophical, and of the Agricultural Societies in MOf**
arui of the Academy of Arts, Sciences, and Belles Litres, Dijn,
Author of several performances. .
Intendes ammum stuiiis et rebus honestis.
Hor
T T„to CONDITIONS.
w u 1. Work will be published in Numbers, weekly; each
n J OT J or£l S n P a ns, to contain three sheets, (48 pages,)
small ottavo.
11. Ame Numbers will complete a Volume, and six Volumes
a > ear , two intercalary Numbers being incorporated with the
others, to keep the Publication regular.
j. J* printed on three kinds of paper, to suitth«
a stc of different classes of purchasers, viz. coarse, common, and
tine writing paper.
IV. Subscriptions will be taken in by the Volume only ; and
no separate Numbers wijl be sold.
V. The price will be, for the coarse paper per Volume, 25.6 d.
tor the common 3s. 3d. and for the fine paper 4s. when stntbypv*
to any port in Great Britain.
SUBSC^-1 PTlONfc ?OR THIS WORK,
Oj which a further account will appear in our next-)
J rrc f lve< * ky '1 16 Ed'tor, (post paid) at the Printing; House of
MundtU and Sen, Edinburgh, by AuhibMMcAuslaniand Co.
Greenock ; Corrie y Gladstones and Bradshaw, Liverpool; AtRMi
Hdicar and S 0 n y Bristol; a»d, Mr. McCulM, Optician, No.
Mmories, London.
. i
'' ;CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURSDAY, JUNE ?.
THE report of the committee on fuc petition of J. F, Amelung
on motion of Mr. Carroll was read the second time tins re
?»ori was in favor ot the petitioner so far as to loan him 8000 dol
ars
Mr. Carroll gave ajiiftory of the rife ond progrrfs of this gen.
"tleman'stxertions in cftabfifhingan American glass manufactory
it commenced in 1775 ; he brought into the country upwards of
200 persons, and has expended in thisundertaking 50,060 pounds
Owing to a variety of accidents, and particularly the ejttraoidtnary
wfe in the price of grain, he now finds himfclf greatly embar
rassed in prosecuting the business. but if he can be so far pa ronized
by government as 10 be favored with a loan (tf 3or 4000 pounds
It would afford him such relief, as would enable liim to surmount
every difficulty.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) and Mr. Sherman objected to trie report of
the commitlec, they doubled the constitutionality of the power of
Congress to loan the roone^of r their ctrnftiamji, t h- v -.fry A, rf
J? «0 »c<o'unt of the precjA. wit would JE&lCand fuppofcd
•hat the encouragem:ht and alTirtance would be applied for with
more propriety to the State government. '
Mr. Carroll made some obfctvations in reply \o rhefe remarkt
Mr. Vinmg said he had no idea of losing a good thing left a
precedent (hiuld he which no future circumstances
might probably call into use. He then adverted to the extraordi
nary and peculiar circumstances of this gentleman, and on gene
raln.tional principles contended that it was conformable to the
dictates of the soundest policy to encourage and aflift the under
taking.—He said that the constitution does not prohibit thegovern
meni from loaning money, it is a meer ast of legifiation, and
Congress may do it, or let it alone. Congress are vetted with a
general power to encourage the arts and manufafturej of the Uni
ted States ; this is on; inodeof affording this encouragement • he
enlarged on the itnpnitance of manufactures and that of makine '
glass in particular, by which if duly encouraged imroenH futnj oj
money are prevented from being sent out of the country.
Mr. Boudinot, who was one of the committee which brought in
the report, gave an account of the manufactory, and said he had
ken ot the glass made in It, which was superior to any ever before
produced in Am. ri ( a.—Ho contended that Congress had a ri*h'
by tne constitution to loan the money ; he cited frveral inflates
in pbmt—which, said he, are unconftiiutional if this propo
rtion u—He expatiated on the merits of the petitioner, in em
barking such large property in prof<cuting a bulincfsof lo general
utilitj, and pointed out the confeqm-nces which would rrfuli from
• failure of thia application, which would be greatly mjmious to
the petitioner and the public.
I(Ir. Sherman read that part of the constitution which he con
ceived was contrary to the propofitton in the leporr.
Mr. Sedgwick said he had no doubt of the conflituliin.ility of
the meafurc in granting the moncv, Hill he doubted the eligibility
of any partial application of ihc put>lic patronage ,>nd encourage
ment; he mentioned the various manufacturing entcmriscs on
toot through the United States, manv of these ore langniftiing said
he, for want of that encouragcmrpt which is now foiieitcd in tb>>
particular infkance—he fiid lie Jiad no doubt of rhe merits of the
petitioner; and although he was in favor of giving oil due en
couragement to indubious foreign. rs, yet he douhtrd the pro
priety of doing this in a paitial manner, and in ores, icn. e ro th;
" wl ' _ y ; .f iT:rT„ »; a ft.OllU4 i>c bn#*j<-hi forwaid
on general principles said he, it IWild receive my hearty fupuort,
lu f.r as the tircumftancrs of the country would admii.
Mr. Aines entered into a particular difaifli m of the fubjeft of
manufactures, dilated on their utility and importance in ihe Uni
ted States ; he pointed out the difficulties which attended fctting
them up in this country,from the competition they have to contend
■with of (oieign articles—he then dated the principle" on which
public patronage ought to be extended to undertakings in this line
---his idea was that Inch as are of general advantage to the public,
lhould b. (o far sncouraged as to place the manofaSures upon
terms of equality wth foreign manulaaures of a fcmilar natnre ;
he d'd not conceive the prrfent circuinllances of the United States
would juftify or enable them to undertake to afford this encour
agement generally, but he<fuppofed that there waa a propriety in
taking up particular branches, and determining what Darlicular
aid they shall rec< ive.
Mr. Jackson wasoppofed to the report, he was avcrfe to any
partial encouragement—particularly of foreigners in preference to
oui own citizens, whose circuniftances are in many refpefts truly
deplorable from the failure of manufactures, which had long been
efldbli/hod in the country \ he observed that our creditors had a
prior claim on the revenue,and that the mcafurc was precipitate.
G-.nrlenun are not content said he with placing the American
tonnage in a hot bed, but they are now for placing mannfaftures
ttlfo in one ; he supposed the State of Maryland would derive
great advantage from this undertaking and that they would en
tourage the petitioner without doubt ; he wished the gentleman
fnceefs, but was for referr ng him to the State legiflaturc.
Mr. Scney fuppoi ted of the committee and urged the
propriety of the application to the general government, as the un
dertaking is of general utility* and such extraordinary exertions
merited the notice patronage and afliftance of the United States
at large. •
Mr. Gerry after a varietv of other observations said the agri
cultural and commercial intcrefts of the United States had found
■warm advocatts in the House ; manufattures had found some
ii tends, but he believed, not to so great a degree as the other two ;
ne wished that some mode could be devised to unite in meafurcs
to promote the interests of all three.—He concluded by saving
that as there appeared to be a variety of sentiments on the fui>je&,
he wished the houle ihouid go inio a cpmmittee of she whole on
tnc bufmefs. ' Mr. Stone made some observations in favor of
the report.
Mr Smith (S.C.) replied to the fevcral speakers in favor of the
Teport he reprobated the resolution, as uuconllitmional—as open
ing a door to innumerable applications—he contended that there
was no probability ot etfc&ual and certain aid to the manufac
ture, as it is acknowledged that «0,000 pounds has been employed
in the undertaking, yet it is in danger of failing ;he then read
an advertlfcraejit of Mr. Amelung in which he fays he is ftiil able
to birnifh the public with giafs. He obfeivcd that all cir
cumihnces he was led to'conclude that if the money was once
granted, it would never be again realized by the government, as in
cafe of accidcnts which arc very probable in that bulnu fs, Con
is will be applied to, on account of misfortunes to remit their
demand. This report was negatived.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 7.
AmefTage was received from the Senate; informing the House
that they do not concur in the bill for allowing commu ahon to
iheircprcfentativcs of David Gould, dtceafed ; and th*t they ha c
pafled the bill for establishing the Poft-Office, and Poft-Rcads ol
the United States, with amendments.
In cittwttre of the whole en the Rrjfdence Ri(
Mr. motion for finking out Potowroac, and ;nfert
ing Baltimore was further debated.
Mr. Cerry, Mr. Livermore, Mr. Sedewick. Mr ri \
w a y ncganvcd- 3 Sh ' h ' ke *'* Um f ° r
DebL Sedg^ick m t0 fttike W ! r«owm lC , and to- insert
Delaware—thi,iwa. negated Witft<jfefcb»te,
n ,„ r ' c >'v a , r P'eta'fins fcreral »l»Ktvati6«i, moved that the
permanent residence should be fixed between Potowmac and the
lunation to be determined dnda- certain in
ftruftions, by the Commiflionen to be appointed by the bill
Thu motion v»» negatived withouta division
Mr Gerry moved to ame»d the clauTe, so as to include the
towu of Alexandria—this was negatived.
- A m °tion by Mr. Smith (M.) to iofert the word « locate "
was next put and negatived. -Aswas.ifoa motion made bv
Mr Lawrance, to strike oat « .800," and to insert " line » V
Sevefal other motions were pot and negatived
Mr Burke then moved the following amendment, viz.
. , Bc " f" rthe ' enaaed, That the city of New-York (hall be
the feat of the government 6f the United States until the da v
■.1 , ; th't thereafter, as soon as the fame may be conve
niently done, all the offices attached to the feat of the general 20
; eminent of the United States fell be removed to the city of Phi
ladelpkia In the (late of Peimfylvanu, which (hall thenceforth be
the feat of said government until the day of "
the^c o nr,h™»bt hOU " ,kin^ thi ' wa.
THURSDAY, JULY 8.
A message wasreceiwd Worn the Senate, informing the house
that hi«« jwfflcd .W1 makinj iuri.hei prov.hon for the inva
jtapeofioneri of the United States . also ,h at they have naffed on a
bill .providing for the ifimns certificates to a certain description
of invalid officers and do not agree to the fame.
In Committee of the whole on the Residence bill
. The amendment proposed by Mr. Burke yefler'day, was dif.
cuffed, and atter some debate reje&ed. 32 to 28.
Mr. Smith South-Carolin», moved thatthefe woids « at which
place thcenfuing session of Congrefj shall be held" should be era-
Thisoccafioned further debate—the constitutionality of paflinz
fition to ad J oUrntn<:rU wascont efled by thofeinoppo-
The motion being negatived, and the bill being gone throu 2 h
with,the Committee role and reported the fame without anyamend
tncnt. It was then voted that it (hould lit on the table till to mor
Mr. Goodhue of the committee appointed to prepare and re
port amendments to the collection law, brought in a report enti
tled a bill to regulate the colleSion of duties imposed by law on
goods, wares, and Merchandize, imported into the United States
and on the tonnage ofShips orvcdels ; which was read and made
the order of the day for Monday next.
The amendments'of the Senate to the Poft-Office bill, were taken
into connderauon.
The firft amendment was to strike out the fir ft and second feci
t.om which Ipec.fied „nd eft.blifhed the (everal roads, and to in
fm aclaufe .mpowenng the Poft-M.ftrr-Gener.l, under d,reft,on
of the President of the United States to ellablilh them.
A concurrt neein this amendment was oppoled by MelTrs. Blood
worth, White, Steele, Livcrmore, Hartley and Gerry.
It was, (ud that it was delegating the power of legillation to the
jupreme executive in one of the moll important points that could
? The revenue also will centre in the hands of the
executive; and in process ot time this revenue may be converted
into jn Engine d< ftruftive to the liberties of the United States ; for
as it is a perpetual law, and as the time may, and probably will
come, when the executive may be cori upt; as the revenue energ
ies, l nr olncersot the department wtll be encreafed, and we do
not know to what extent the consequences may be carried. It i s
"nconlli'utional, as that expressly refewes the power of eftablilh
ing Poll-Offices and P.A-Ro,d. to . >, J, wal fw .
:,ier obfcrvtd it would be throwiag j burden upon the President
which he cannot execute with any convenience to'himfelf, and
Ironi hf situation, with fatisfaftion to the people. The reprefcnt
atwes of the people who come from all parts of the United States
mull be supposed to have a more competent knowledge of the
proper places for eftablilhing Poll-Roads than the Post-Master-
Getieral.
was advocated by Mr. Partridge, and Mr.Sedg-
It was said that upon an accurate calculation it was found that
the roads proposed by the bill as it passed the houfc, are so numer
ous that so far from affording a revenue, they will prove a great
burden to the United States ? The circumstances of the country
are continually changing ; the feats of government in the several
itates are removed from their ancient situations to 100 miles dis
tance ; to accommodate the people in such cases, old routs must be
discontinued and new roads opened, which will be a perpetual
source of Legislation and unnecelTary expeoce. This bull nets was
left to the Post-Master-General by the late Congress, and verv
few complaints were heard—the Post-Master-General by his of
fice mull be the moll competent judge, as the business will be a
principal object of his attention, and attual surveys of the roads
will be made by hisafliftant in all parts of the United States ; but
if the responsibility of this officer is divided into 65 parts, every
one of which has its own particular convenience in view, 1t must
appear evident, that all responsibility is entirely diflipatcd ; as to
the unconftitutionality, it was said, that the bill proposes no
more in the present instance, than is provided for in the other
executive departments ; the principles of conducing the business
are established by the House—-the mode of carrying those prin
ci pies into execution is left with the executive; and this of ne
ceflity is done in almost every cafe whatever.—The House ad
journed without coming to a otc.
FRIDAY, JULY 9.
The amendment proposed by the Senate to the bill making
further provision for paying the invalid pensioners of die United
States was agreed toby the House.
A meflage was received fr«m ihe Senate informing the House
that they have paflfed a bill providing for the regulation and go
vernment of seamen in the merchants service with amendments,
the bill to reguJate the trade and intercom* fe with the Indian tribes
— and the hill providing tor the settlement of the account* between
the United States and individnal States with amendments.
On motion of Mr. Hartley the House took up the residence bill
as r< ported by the committee of the whole.
Mr. floudinot, after exprefling his disapprobation of the bill
gen<rj||y ; moved that the Potowmac should be (Iruck out and
the Delaware inserted—and called the Ayes and Noes—after form
debate this motion was negatived as follow :
AYES.
Mrflrs. Ames, Brnfon, Boudmot, Floyd, Foster, Gerry, Good
!iue, Grout, Huntington, Hathorne, Leonard, Lawrance, Livei
mori, Pajtridge, R<n(ellaer. Trumbull, Schureman, Sherman,
Sylvester, Sturges,Sedgwick, Wad 1 worth. 22
NOES.
McfTrs. Afhr, Baldwin, Blood worth, Brown. Burkf, Cadwal
l.ider, Carrol, Clymr», Cole. l , Contcp, F.tziimons,Gilman, Hciftfr,
Hartley, Jackson. Ga' , Gritfiin, P. Mult) nberg, Madison, MjU
• hews, M >'T<*. P p . rk'r, L-» f S»t 1 , Sco l ., Sinnickfon, Stone,
Sev.e-, S, nev, Smith (M.) St it ■ (S. < , Sumpter, Thatcher, Tuck, r,
VVhitc, Williainfon, Wvi ko d. 39
Mr. Ames moved to llnke «»itt P t >wmac, end inf-rt German
town, as the rcfidenre. Avea 22 —Not s 39.
Variation, Mr. Gilnan, Avt —M . T umbull, No.
Mr. Smir' , (Man la d), movft' <> it- iks nut P >townac. and in-
between the i>ufquehanna.«~Ayes 25 —Noes 36.
519
, M . r - S T t?1 ' Mr ' Sn ' :th - ( S - C 0 Mr. TrumtuH.
and Mr Thatcher, Ayes.—Mr. Sherman, No.
ti more mOVed t0 ft ' lk " oIH Po ' ow "» a e, and insert Bal-
A * AYES. *' '■
hoi^rmm m H , ,? Cnfon, u F '°y d ' Foftpr > Good.
S e » 11 " I ,' n r ni Uwrance, Le-marJ, Liver,
P , Jrt " d f' Schiireman, Seney, -Sher^
„ _ „ Noes.
ml CWmn C f ,d "' 0 ' Brown, CadwalWr, Can.
'n ?' f" ntec > Oilman, Gale,
lenberJ' p5 p Jack son, Lei; Madison, Matthews, Moore, Muh
s, ?' ,5 e ' ? arkcr > Scot, SeVier, Sumpter, Sinnickfon, Steele,
Stone, Tucker, Vining, White,Will,amfon, Wynkoop.-Noes .4.
CTry m ° VC . d '° strike out thf words " purchase or"-—
/ es 20. ■ - ■—Noes3s.
Comm-ffi erry mOV l d In " ,rerta claur ' wh!ch limit the
Commissioner, , n thecxpence, to the Cum to be received by do
natio".-. Ayes 26 Noes 33 y
Mr. Lawrance moved to add these words, provided the built&nri
th 'h i dollars. — Ayes ,6. NoeT 3 !
Mr. Gerry moved that the words " Three Comm.(lionets, or
any wo of them," should be ftnick out. Th„ was negatived." ?
ftrbrk " rt,OVea thatthc whole of the sth feftion, should be
ltTucK out* AYES
n, °°dworth, Boudinot, Burke, Floyd,
oiler, Gerrv, Grout, Hathorne,Huntington,Lawrance, Leonard.
Shcrma 0 , rC S n S e' Renfe " aer ' Schurctmn, Sedgwick. Senev.
Sherman Sylvester, Smith, M.J Smith, (S. C.J Suirg«, ThatcHe'r.
Trumbull, Tucker, Wadsworth. 28 '
A(l NOES.
Cofc r C ' B i. ,d » ln . &ro * n < Cadwailadcr, Carrol, Clymer,
Coles, Contee, F.t»(imons, Gale, Gilman, Goodhue, Griffin.
lenbere' Pa'^V"^ 6 "* Let ' Mld,fon ' Matthews. Moore,Muh
lenberg, Page, Parker, Scott, Sevier, Sinnickfon, Steele, Stone.
Sumpter.Viumg, White, Willi,mfon, Wynkoop. *
Mr. Burke moved to strike out the firft Monday in Dectmfcer
ne *'> a " d ,0 ">fert the firft Monday in Mav, 1792
not preterit! N ° M " abOVe ' eXCCpt " r " who was
i-SES S™"'"" " - <««k-
Mr. Smith (S. C.) moved that the words " at which place the
next session of Congress (hall be held"—(hould be struck out ; he
moved this amendment he said, on account of the iinconftitution.il
iiy oi tne ciaule.
AYES.
MelTrs. Ames, Renfon, Boudinot, Burke, Floyd, Foster Ger
ry, Grout, Hathorne, Huntington,, Lawrance, Leonard, Livers
more. Partridge, Renfellaer, Sedgwick, Seney, Sylvester Sher
™' ,h ( ic o Sturges, Thatcher, Trumbull,Tucker"
NOES.
MelTrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Bloodworth, firown, Cadwallader*
Carrol, Clymer, Coles, Contee, Fitzfimons, Gale, Gilman Grili.
M-H 1 T V ' .' ackfon ' L «> Mathews' Moore
Muhlenberg, Page, Parker, Scot, Sevier, Sinnickfon, Steele Stone'
Jumpter, Vining, Williamfon, White, Wynkoop '
Mr. Smith (M.) moved an amendment by which the public of.
ficers Ihould be removed to the Potowmac previous to the year
tion°k P s 1, 6 OU,Id, T fllould > prepared for their recep
tion before that time. Ayes 13 -Noes 48
It was moved that the bill be read the third tune on Monday
next , this was negatived; '
To-morrow was then proposed ; this was negatived
Amotion was made to adjourn—which was also negatived
Iljull [, W "i. read the third time, and on the auettio, <W»
t~e _ 1.. pnfs ; the oytt auc jW»art av ioiiov* :
AYES
? ald " in - Blood-worth, Brown, Cadwallader.Car
rol.Clymer,, Colei, Contje, Fitsfimons, Gale, Griffin, Hartley
P. i J ackfo "' L «. Madison, Mathews, Moore, Muhlenbeiff!
Page, Parker, Scott, Sevier, Sinnickfon, Steele, Stone Summ*
Vining, White, Williamfon, Wyukoop.—_ 3 "
NOES.
MeJTrs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot. Burke, Floyd, Foster Gerrv
Goodhue, Gilman, Grout, Hathorne, Hunt.ngton, Lawrance "ll'
nard. Livermore. Par.ndgc, Rcnfellacr, Schureman, Srdc-w ck Sr"
Adjourned till to-morrow, n o'clock.
NEW-YORK, JULY 10, 1790.
The anmverfary of independence was cele
brated at Philadelphia with peculiar propriety *
It being Sunday, the society of the Cincinnati
formed themselves into a body, preceded by
his Excellency Governor Mifflin their Presi
dent, and the Hon. Thomas Mc'Kean, Vice-
Hrefident—and being joined by the corporation,
of the city with other civil an d military officers
and a large concourse of refpetfable citizens-1
walked in procession to Christ Church, and there
attended divine service— Dotfor William Smith
delivered a moll excellent difcohrfe adapted to
? n Monday the society alien,bled
and elected their officers for the ensuing year
mn G ft 7, S fr at Philadelphia, exhibited a
molt splendid scene on the anjiiverfary of inde
pendence. 1
As there is not a surplusage of chararter* i*
any country competent to tranfarting the public
affairs thereof-,t ,s evident that the idea of ro
tation in office, ,f frequently recurred to, nrift
deprive the people of the bed abilities of the
country—those matured by experience
Is it not demonstrable that those paris of the
country wh.ch are represented by men long cop
verfant in public affairs, jnult enjoy ftrikina ad
vantages over those whose concerns are commit
ted on the principles of rotations, to a new fee
of hands at every eletflion.
While public chararters ftould f*el their de
pendence on the good will, and free fuffraees of
the.r constituents-it is little short of political
"ic f ° r *}} e people to deprive themselves of
approved abilities on the plausible, but oft de
cepuve principle of rotation.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Rr! T1 t 't»> c Cam e°"' 4 mo "»and 22 -d ays .
Bug Dartmouth, Summs, Savannah-la-Mar, 40 day.
Schooner Letty, Bebee, St. Peters, (Ntw-E^L^d)THE NEW CONSTITUTION
OF THE STATE OY SOUTH-CAROINA.
(CortcUitiJrotn eufihjl.)
article VIII.
3cß. 1. HPHE free exercise and enjoyment of religious protelti-
J. on and worlhip, without discrimination or prefer
ence, (I*ll, forever hereafter, be allowed within this (late to a I
mankind ; provided that the liberty of conscience hereby declar
ed (hall not be foconftrued as toexcufeafts of Itcentioulnels.or jul
afv practices inconfillent with the peace and fafety ot tins (late.
Sc3. 2. The rights, privileges, immunities and cftatesot both
.ivil and relig'iou. ioc.etu s »nd of corporate bodies (hall
u if thcconflitution oftl.is state had not been altered oramended.
ARTICLE IX.
S t a. i. All power is originally veiled in the people; and all
free governments arc founded on their authority, »nd«e initia
ted for their peace, fafrty and happiness.
Srt t No freemen of thi. state (hall be taken, or impnfoned,
or d.tfcifed ol his freehold, liberties or privileges, or outlawed or
exiled, or in any manner destroyed, or deprived of his life, liber
ty or property, but by the judgment of hu P«is, or by the law ot
the land, nor (hall any bill of auainder, poll faßo
impairing the obligation of contrasts ever be palled by the legil
iature ol this ftatc. .
S<3. s. Tac military (hall be subordinate to the civil power.
Se:i. 4. Excessive bail (hall not be required, nor excessive hnej
imposed, mr cruel punilhments iodifted.
Se3 -5. Thi legiQature (hall not grant any title of oob.lity, or
hereditary dulmdion, nor create any office, the appointment to
which (hall be for any longer time than during good behaviour
Self 6 The trial by jury as heretofore ufedin this ltate.and the
liberty of th; press (hall he forever inviolably prcferved.
ARTICLE X.
Scfl. 1. The business of the treasury shall be in future conr-utt
ed by two treasurers, one of whom lhall hold his office, and rc
fcde at Columbia, the other lhall hold his office and reside in
eharUlten.Thc fccrttJTy of an d f„rvevor general (hall hold
their offices both in Columbia and in Charleftoii—They (hall re
side at one place, and their deputies at the other.
Seel, r At the conclusion of the circuits, thfc judges (hall meet
and fit at Columbia, for the pnrpofe of hearing and determining
all motions which may be made for new trials and in arrcft of
judgments, and such points of law as may be fubrn.tted to them.
f rem Columbia, they (hall proceed to Charleston, and there hear
and determine all such motions for new trials, and 10 arrest ot
md-ment, and such poinisoflaw, at may be submitted to them.
S°a 4 The Governor (hall alw»y» reside during the fitting of
the legiflatnre at the place where their session may be held and at
all other times wherever in his opinion the public good may
Sftf ■; The leeifl 'ture (hall, as soon as may be convenient, pass
laws for the abolition of the right, of primogeniture and for giv
i 10 an equitable distribution of the realeftateof mtcftates.
0 ARTICLE XI.
No convention of the people (hall be called unless bv the con
currence of two thirds of both branches of the whole reprefeuta-
No part of this constitution (hall be altered, unlcfs a bill to al
ter the rime (hall have been read three times m the hou[e of re
prelentatives, and three tunes in the Senate, and agreed to by wo
thirds of both branches of the whole reprefcntanon ; neither fha 11
any alteration take plac- until the bill f* agreed to, be publifoed
three month, previous to a new clefc.on for member, to the house
of rcprefentatives, and if the alteration proposed by the
shall be agreed to in ihcir firft fefliori by two third, of the whole
reprcfenuuon in both branches of the lcgiflature aftefcthe fame
•hall have been read three times, on <hreffe»eral davfin each
loufc, thm, and not otherwise, the fame flnll become a part ol
tUone ft, in : the convention at Columbia, in the ftlte of South-Ca
rolina, the 3d day of J line, m the year of our Lord 1790. and
in the 14th year of the independence of the United States ol
America By the unanimous order of the Com- ntion.
CHARLES PINCK.NEY, PreJtfvU.
[Attiit]
JOHN SANFORD DART, Sct'ry.
i That no inconvenience may arise from the alterations and a
m ndments in the constitution of this (late ; it is hereby declared
and ordained. That the government lhall be adm.oiftered as
heretofore, until the meeting and filling of the legislature, to be
held under this constitution.
a And whereas tlie existing laws, render it highly inconveni
ent for the legislature to meet on the fourth Monday m Novem
ber next, it is therefore ordained, that infl-ad thereof, tbe mem
bers of the senate and house ot reprefeniatives, to be eUfted on the
' second Monday ... ©Sober, and on the day following, lhall meet
at Columbia, ihe feat ol government, oiuhc firft Monday in Janu.
Ttis also ordained, that tbe commissioners of thetreafury,
lhaii with all convenient, dispatch lake a balance of the treasury
books, which balance (hall be led f din the ireafurcrs office n Co
lumbia, and .he original book, in :he treasurers office inCharlefton.
a It is the opinion of this convention, that the legislature at the
fuft feflion, which lhall be held under this constitution, ffiould re
gulate and eftabhfh by law, all the fees of the rcfpcflive courts
and offices throughout this ftete.
C. That thi y also provide for the annual and final fcttlement of
the accounts of the commissioners ot the treasury, so that the pe
cuniary interest ofthe state, be duly attended to, and the prions
who faithfully discharge the duties of that important office be
quieted therein, and their lu.eties released in a fixed and reafona
'"'V That the legidature thall make cffcAual provision for revi-
Gng, digesting, and publifhiig the laws of this state, so as that a
general knowledge thereof may be d.ffufcd among the citizens of
"", S 'xtfc IfifUture at their firft meeting, (hall proceed to the e
lection of of .he peace thr.i.gl-ut vbe ftafc and of juft.ee.
of the county courts, where coun.y courts are ellablilhed, that all
former commissions of the peace expire at fixed periods, to be de-
C ' d g "Vhat aIT-rotation officer's at the firft meeting of the legislature
under this constitution may he not withftand.ng any
time they niav have befor, fcrved under the lormer constitution.
Bv the unanimous oidcr of the Convention, June 3, 179 0 -
y CHARLES PINCKNEY, Prc/idcnt.
(Attist)
JOHN SANFORD HART, tertiary.
TOWARDS the close of the late war, a Dutch
ship, mounting 74 g uns > having on board
her supply of men, as Ihe lay at her mooring in
the harbor of Currfcoa, one of the Weft India
lflands, was ftiddenly blown up ; the circumstan
ces of which are as follows : the gunner ot the
aforefaid ship, (to whom was committed the care
of the magazine, which contributed greatly to
the security of his design) was, for fonie inifde
8i can or or other, that fatal morn, to receive a
OBDURACT.
dozen lashes with a rope's end—but being
ouily actuated by an hellilh dehre ot revenge, lie
conceived the dreadful notion of conimunieating
fire to the magazine ; in order wheieu
procured a match, with which, in a victorious
manner, he marched directly to the powder
confiding of two hundred barrels ; on his wa}
thither he wis met by one oi the cabbiu y ,
(he being the only person preserved whereby
the circumstances of this horrid affair were bro t
to light) whole curiosity having led him to en
quire whither l)e was bound with a lighted match,
received this aftonifliing anfvver, « We are all
going, by a sudden roaring gale, to land very
speedily in the fafe port of the infernal pit,
where, it is probable, we (hall make a warm
breakfaft." Whereupon the boy, miftruftiug
his bad design, call himfelf out at the nearelt
port-hole, and continued fwimmg under water
till his breath was nearly spent, and at the time
of his appearance the fliip was blown up, attend
ed with thunderingdevaftation which was per
ceived in part, bv the damage done to several ot
the nearelt buildings—not to mention the man
gled limbs ofthofo belonging to the /hip, which
were afterwards picked up about the iflarnl. -
Thus through the revenge and impenitencc of
one bold wretch, 500 fouls were summoned be
fore the dreadful bar of God, in an hour which
they thought not of.
From the Antigua Jou
Corrtft lift tfthe Ships under imi
At Plymouth.
Royal Sovereign - - - too
Gibraltar ------ 80
- - - 74
Eg moot - -
Valiant - -
- - - - 74
Melampus - - - - - $6
Winchelfea - - -
Daphne ------
At Pirtfmouth.
- - 3 2
Victory ------ 100
Princcfs Royal - - - - 98
Formidable ----- 98
Courageux - - - - -
Canada - - -
Warrior - -
74
- - - 74
- • - 74
- - 3«
- - 3 8
La Prudente -
Arcthufa - - -
3 6
Minerva -
La Nyrophe - - - • -36
At Chatham.
Robust ------ 74
Alexander ----- 74
Alfred ------ 74
* This Journal contains the proclamation mentioned in the St. K'fts
Rajftenc Pafer—which turns out to be nothing more than tic Bnt jh
King's mejftge received here by the Packet feme weeks jince.
Last night a very hot press took place in the
Road and Harbor oPs>t. John. Wc hear that up
wards of* 100 Seamen were collected from the
different ships.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE. UNITED ST.fTES.
THERE are many pcrfons who boast of their
moral virtile, honelt principles, and heroic
fortitude, that have not afingle ray of the above
named prdj>erties, in their homogeneous mass,
that illumes and brightens the human foul :
tbofemoft deficient in virtue and the noble prin
ciples which dignify the man, are the molt apt
to swell the zephyrs with their own fame.
This is a great mark of vanity, strong proof of
want of common fenfe,and fufficiently evincive of
misapplied education on an unvirtuous mind—
" virtue without knowledge makes er.thufiafts ;
and knowledge without virtue makes devils ; but
both united, elevate to the top of human dignity
and»perfe<ftion."
Universal felj-approbation, arises from igno
ranee and euthufiafm—and universally defaming
and reprobating the public and private conducfi,
is a species of opprobium that Hows from an ireful
and corrupted Source ; those that drink deep of
this fountain will be tinged with such slandering
principles, as the water of time cannot cleanl'e
and purify; therefore avoid depravity in the
dress of honesty, for it may delude innocence
and corrupt virtue itfelf.
Disappointed ambition, connetfied with a vin
dictive lpirit makes a reprobate.
May not wjcJleihiers and ignorance, together
with certain physical causes on the moral facul
ty, or total absence of the moral faculty, be just
ly considered the parents of cowardice ?
A certain philosopher of the present age, in
his philosophical oration, or enquiry intothe in
fluence of physical causes on the moral faculty,
has given the history of the celebrated Servins
character, and there appears to be a total absence
of the moral faculty, while the chnfm, produced
thereby in his mind,feems to have been filled up
by a more than common extension of every other
power of his mind ; he was treacherous—coward/j
—deceitful—a liar, and blasphemer, &c produ
ced in consequence of the loss of the moral fa
culty.
ICT 4 large impression of this paper having been
struck off from the commencement of the second vol.
April 14. —Those ivho incline .to become fubfcr'tbers
from that period > may bs furnijhed with the number)
o'mpleat.
520
inal, EXTRA.* June 11.
uiiati orders of equipment for Jea.
At Sheerne/s.
Guns.
I phi gene - - - - -
Spitfire Firefhip - - - - -
At Woolwich.
Brunfwick. - - - - -
Juno ------
Tifiphone Fircfoip - - - -
At Dcpford,
Led a
Cyclops - - -
3~
- - =8
HulTar - - - -
Hind - -- -- --28
Totil.
Two of * - - - -
Two - - - - -
One ------
Nine - -
S»
Two • -
Three - - - -
Four - -
Three - - -
One -------
And two Fire Ships,
iNEC DOTE OF D 2. fRANKIIX,
A GENTLEMAN remarkable for his aveifi on
to revealed religion, some time ;ig 0) Ul
a large company, among w Horn was Dr. Franklin
indulged liiinTen in a number of remarks diihu
norablt) to the Christian faith, and warmly o p.
jiofed all who defended it : \vhen, • turning - 8
the Dodtor, he appealed to Itini for the truth of
his aiiertions. That good old man made this la.
conic wife reply : " IT IS SAKKST TO jj|£.
LIEVE." This declaration, tonfidttred as die
mature decilion of one of the nio'fl etllighctntd
sages, after upwards of fourlcore years c::p;rj
ence in the learned and active world, is of no
little weight in the scale of human opinion,
the moll important queltion in the umvcrfc.
Aji eftimater of the services of the Rev. ]y r
Wefley observes, that in the conflant labour of
upwards of 60 years, reckoning his difcoutfo
&c. at two per day, which is 730 a year, tiny'
aiuount in all to 43.9°° ! What is more extra.,,.
dinary, the literary labou.sof this gejnlci,,
are so numerous, that for many years pad tea
persons have been constantly employed hi ti. e
branch of printing. Mr. Wefley's library, ac
cording to a public valuation lately made by his
order, was eltimated at 40001.
New-York City Lottery.
Guns.
- 3 2
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, lor the purpose of raifmy
J**nd Five Hundred Pounds, ro an ACT of tkt
tare c*f the State of New-York, palled Bth February, >7&.;
74
- 3 2
1 PRIZE of
3
to
33
I 3
ißd
795°
- 100
- qR
. 80
- 74
Blanks, £ = Ticket., ai 40, each, £.5000,
Subjed to a dedu&ion of Fifteen per Cent.
THEobjeft of this LOTTERY being to raise a part oftheftiro
advanced by the corporation for repairing and enlarging the CI.
T Y HALL, for the accommodation ot CONGRESS, whichd<*«
so much honor to the Architect, as well as credit to the city. The
managers prelume tl.at their fellow Citi/.ens will chcerfu.ly con
cur in promoting the falc of Ticket*, especially as the fucccfs
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, which mud otherwise
be laid to reimburse the corporation.
The above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very beiicfici;!
to adventurers,there not being two blanks to a prize.
The Lottefy is intended to cortNTienre dt -.wiag on riie T/sst i
Monday in August next, or looncr if filled, of which time!/
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers will be pub
lilhed at the expiration/>f the drawing.
Tickets are to be fold by the fubferibers, who are appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutenburgh, Abraham Herring,
Ps TF.R T. CURTENIUS, JOHN PINTARD.
New-York, 6thMa*-ch,i 790.
- 3<>
- J a
- - - *8
*4
By Order of the Honorable Richard Morris, EJq. Chief JuJlicc oj lie
Sbite of New- York.
NOTICE is herrby givtn to LewisM'Donald, of Conncflicut,
an ah fen t debtor, that upou application and due proof once
to the f<nd chief iuftice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Donald,
pursuant to an ast of the Leg'flature of the said State, entitled,
l< An a£t for relief abfeonding and ahfent debtors," pas
sed the 4'h April, 1786 ; he, the said chief justice, has dueled
all the said Lewis Nl'Donalds estate, within this Hate, to befeiz*
ed, and thit unlcfs he (hall discharge his debts within twelve
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will be fold
for the payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d May, 17QO.
New-YorMay 7, 1790. (l.w.iy.)
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No, 187, Water-Street, near the
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kinds ofPUBLICK
SECURITIES—R-ILLb OF EXCHANGE. &c. asufual.
New-York, Aprils 1790. *tf.
The Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA,
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten minutes after
Eight o'clock every morning except Sunday.
Stage Office, City Tavern, )
Broad-Way, New-York June 5,1790. 5
CASH, and a generous price given' for
nental, New-Hampshire, Maflachutcui, and Rhode-lM*
fccuritie«, of every denomination, by _ .
' EBENEZER THAYER, jun. No. 59,
New-Yoik, April 17,1790.
J CONTINENTAL )
) STATE S E*C URIT IE S> j f
BOUGHT AND SOLD,
A ' DUW wu i
V AT NO. 196. WAT EH-ST RUT,
C $3™ A generous price will be given for Military Rights *f i
y and Jersey Paper Money. •
THE Creditors of Col. tLISH A SHELDON, of
hereby notified, Thai the Subscribers l e.ug app o, »"* f V,
ees of said Sheldon's estate, will attend tothe pimtif j
ppointmenton the firft Monday of August next, at I: e ,
a cob us Da vis, in said Salisbury, agreeable to the A
ilv.—The intcre(l of the creditors >equ'res J e "
lance. IIEZF.KIAH FITCH, ( fra&c
N BIRD. >
JOHi.
Stl'Jhry, (Cmncflicvtj, Jui.e .8, 1/83.
LONDON.
HEME,
SC H E
£. 3 OCO
1000
200
100
" 50
ao
10
4
£ 3"»
2CCO
15 69
KCO
3 : -°
85*
2400
18-0
3»aw- :