WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 44, cf Vol. 11. j
w TRANSLATED
FOR_ THE THE UNITED STATES.
ADDRESS of to the
PEOPLE of FRANCiI
Fibrulry 11th, 1790.
(CONTINUED.) J
have deflrojed the Executive power Mo :
W Say tlie Muiijicnat pc ver : Itwas this which
destroyed, and frequently degraded the xec>>-
tivepower,—»We have more pi- ti; r! ly -»V '
it i»y coii»lu-i illit to l': in . fo.ncc of ii*. pow
er, THE POWER OF THE PEOPLE. It it at
frefent defiitute of f.r:ngl /•—again ft the ConlLtir 4 -
tion and the Law : This is true ; but ii. their fa
vor, it will be more powerful than ever.
The p-.ople have armed thevtfclves Yes, in thtfir
own defence : They had need so to do. Bur,
mijchiejs happen in con/I it, i'lfiver alpi,' 1.
Can the National Afleuibly be reproached for
thetn ? Can the disasters complained of, be impu
ted to it, which it has wished to prevent and check
ie whole strength of its decrees, and which
vviii undoubtedly cease under the future indis
soluble union of the two powers, and th-e irrefut
able strength of the whole national force.
IVe have txueiied our po-jji's : The uufwer is
finiple. We were indii'putably sent to form a
Constitution ; this was the w'lfr 11s was the
want of all France. Was it po i.' hen to cre
ate this Conliitution—)o form one altho iuVper
fetft, from the conltirutional decree*, without tlie
plenitude of the powers which we have exerciled ■
Say rather,without the National AfierrtWy, Ft ance
was loft—without the principle, which L.bmits
every thing to the plurality of fiee fuffmges, it
is impoflible toconceive of a National Afi'en.! !y ;
it isimpollible to concei\e, we do irot fay a ton
flitution, but even the hope of irrrvocably «.!< f
troying theleaft abuse—this principle, is eternal
ly true—it has been acknowledged throughout
-T France. It has appeared in a thousand ways
ihrfo numerous addrefles of" adhesion, whi ii
. in-every dire&iun—the crowd of libels, which
n-rc.nx. Wvl U <r i; g"c A t C t OCT U OU •
These addreiles,thefe congratulations, tliefe hom
ages, these patriotic oaths—what confirmation of
the power, which they wish to contest with us !
F topic of France ! Snch are the reproaches,
made againftyour representatives, in that crowd j
of culpable writings, which affetfl the tone of the ,1
citizen's complaint. Vainly do they flatter i
themselves to difcotirage us :—Our courage re- j
doubles :— It will not be long before you per- j
ceive the effect;. The Aflembly is about giving j
you a Military Conftitntion, which by com poling
an army of citizen-foldiei s, will unite the valor j
which defends the country, and the civic virtues
which protetft, without alarming if. It will fliort
]y present you with a fvftem of Import, which
will promote agriculture and indnllry, which will
in lhort refpe<ft the freedom of commerce—a sys
tem which, being simple, clear and eaiily con
ceived, by all thole who pay, will determine what
they owe, and will render easy the knowledge
lo neceliary for the employment of the public
revenues—and will lay open to every Frenchman
the true state of the finances, till now an obfeure
labyrinth, where the eye could not pursue the
traces of the treaftiry of the State.
Very shortly, a citizen-clergy, removed alike
from poverty and riches, an example at once to
hotli rich and poor, exenfing the injurious ex
preflions of a transient delirium, w ill inspire a
true confidence, pure and universal, which will
neither attract that envy which inflames, nor
that pity which humiliates—will cheridi re!i i
on—wiil iucreafe its happy influence byihe niild
ell and niort intimate connexions between the
people and the p?rtors—and will no longer af
iord the fight which the patriotifin of the Clergy
itfelf, has more than once reprobated in this Ai
<embly, of opulent idlencfs, and unrewaided in
dustry.
Very fhortlv, a of criminal and penal
laws, dictated by reason, justice and humanity,
w : il show.even in the perlon of the victim of the
the respect due to thequ-ality of man, with
out which respect we have no prttenfion to speak
•of morals. A code of civil laws, entrusted to
judges appointed by your fuffrages, and render
iiigjuftice gratuitously, will loon make all those
laws disappear, which were obfeure, complicated
'»d contradiiflory, whose incoherence and num
ber, appeared to leave, even an npright Judge,
the right of calling his will, his mistakes, and
ii?nictia;es hH ignorance, justice—but e\en at this
SATURDAY, JULY ;, 1790
moment you religiously obey these very laws, be
canfe you know, that refpeot for laws unrevo
ked, is the diltinctive marks of a 1.1 ue citizen.
Infhort, we will terminate ouvl oors by acode
ofinftructions, and national edi ation, which
wilPplace the Conftitutipn under the p'otecftiou
of succeeding generations, and b leading civic
inftrudtion, through all the degrees of repiefen
tation, we shall transmit, thro evLry class of so
ciety, the 1 ' owledge necefl uyf n Y the happiness
ps each or 'ole cla«l<"s, as well ti- that of the
whole society. (To be com.uu 1 J
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, MAY 25.
Mr. Gerrv's motion on the affumptien of the S'jte debts, which was
inserted in this p. per of the 26th, under. 'moderation
Mr. A M ES :
(continued from our last.)
THF-RF, is another view of the fubjeft to l,c taken. It is al
lowed that the people pay duties in prop- >tion as they con
sume dutied articles. The consumption in the several States is
nearly accoidihg to t'he numbers ot the people. It wilt be as fair
in this, as in the former calculation, to takes.i number of rcpre
fentatives as our rule to compute the prop >rtit nvwhicb the lever«J
States contribute by the consumption of artu:i< . charged with du
ties. The impofl of and Mi. Vachufetts colle&ed :
wiihin the period from August to December, id added together,
was nearly 120,000 dollar* Allow the form.: three parts in ele
ven, according to her reprefentatiou, and it vi'.l apptar that her
citizens paid thirty-two thoufond seven hundred dollars of the
whole sum. I.efi than 8,000 dollars were o.lleckd within the
State. In cafe the debts Ihould not be afiumed, but fhouid be
provided for by State duties and txcifea, according to fhefc prin
ciples, the citizens of New-Hampfh<re would have to pay 5.000
dollars a month, or at the rateof 25,009 from \ ugufl to D.ci mber
into the trealury of Massachusetts. • • in like manner,
would nay witb ; n an equal period 54. C d -s, and Jcrfcy, it
Yrckoaerr witn iNew-lork, woutr. nave to p&y «h»out t»o,oooiioi
lars, and with Pennsylvania still more. In a whole year, this
tribute which one State would cxa& from another'would amount
to very large sums. North-Carolina is a non importing State,
and in common with the others beforementioncd, would have to
pay for the debt of its neighbours and then to provide for its own.
Is there any justice or cause of difcora and violence charged, or
even imagined, againfl the alTumption equal to this ? And yet we
hear it said, let us leave th# States to pay their debts for them
selves.
Perhaps we (hall never be fully agreed as to what is policy ; on
great quefttons when the judgment should he cool, the paffi ns
most frequently interpose and disturb its decisions, and this is most
likely to happen where public men are zealously faithful to their
trust.
But it is otherwise with our sense of justice ; our pity, our gra
titude, our refemments may mislead us ; but of all the operations
of the moral feofe the most precise and infallible is our sense ol
justice. The heart a£ts as interpreter and guides us to certaiotv —
injury or wrong is the opposite of justice. I appeal to that moni
sens , to that law written upon the heart, and confidently ask,
whether you can impofc this burden upon the States and call it
equality ? Whether you the claims of their creditors
and call it jujlice ?—As to the policy of the aflumption. To object
is always easy It is not hard to (hew how many little obje&ion
a great measure will be liable to ; but, in a qucftion of policy, we
are oommonly obliged to disregard little things for the fake of
great ones—nor can complete proof be given ol the affirmative;
for, when it is asserted that bad cotifequenccs will ensue, time on
ly can fully prove that they will not. I neither expect nor pre-
nd t« overcome every doubt when I undertake to Ihew that it is
more fafc and prudent to aflume than not to aiTumethe State debts.
When we speak of policy what is meant by the term ? A measure
ii said to be against wife policy when it tends to prevent good, or
to produce evil—it rcfpe&s either the government orthecitizens :
as it refpetts government will the afTumption dimimfh its power
or embarrass the cxeicife ol it ? Or as it regards the people, will it i
produce evil and not good ?
This measure can neilher encrcafe nor diminifti the power ol
government; for the power to be exercised is expressly given it
by the coniV.tution. Will it embarrass the exercise of power ?
The contrary is 'rue—it removes impediments which will be in
its way if not afTumed. Experience has taught us, to our cost,
how very pernicious thofc obftaclcs are. The systems of State re
venues before the constitution was formed, had crushed industry,
and almost ruined trad , from State to State.
Will its tendency be to evil rather than, to common benefit ?
This, it is true, is a vague as well as complex question; but its great
o jitts are to establish justice—to produce equality of burthens
and benefits—an uniform revenue system—to secure public credit
>y leraoving every example of bad faith, and to prevent all in
teiference between the national and State governments, and the
dangerous usurpation of the one upon the other, which would bi
the confequcnce.
How can it he f id that policy is against the measure if its ten
dency be furh ? Much has been said about consolidation. Cer
tainly it c nnotbe ulurpation for Congrtffs to pay the debts which
werccontra&ed either by itfelf, or, at its owffrequeft, by the States
Tie State governments are laid to be in danger of a consolidation :
that however, is not the only, probably not the greatest. dangei
rhey havetorifk; disunion is ltill more formidable ; nothing can
lhelter th • small States from thegreat ones but union ; nor woulc
any single State be fafe against the combination of several States.
All would be exposed to foreign foes.—lf you make the State go
vernments strong by taking strength from the union, they becomc
exposed exactly in the decree that you do it. For the principle
509
of union ought to be strong in proportion to the drench of th?
members. In a compound ratio, therefore, you make the n:>fiuu*
al govefnment too weak to combine tic whole to.; thei, and you
governments and citizens to tbti caoncc o( acci<'ei»ts an<i
to the fury of pailions. which \\* ill confound law . libeny-md £ »-
vernment.
It is true, a body of' valuable citizens will be attached to th
government; all good citizcns should love the government, ami
they will do it it government Ihould deserve their love.
RevenUe powers are given to Congress without reserve. T»
fay ihat it is dangerous and improper to exercile them is a char ;e
againll the conttitution.
There but three points of view toconfider the Slate govern
ments 111. rival? lor power— switchmen—or as legtfl 4
tors within the State. To call them rivals, would be an avowal
of the principle of disunion, or rather of positive force, which is '
abfuid.
I do not know that either the State or national ronftitutions
have given them the office to watch thi< government.—The peo
c!e are to watch us all, and I wilh they always may. But if the
State govei nments are dill called watchmen, that office ma* be
performed as well, perhaps better, without than with the incum
brance of theirxlebts.
It is equally difficult to fee how it can impair the rights of in
ternal Jegiflation. The alTuinption and an uniform plan of reve
nue will take away not only all pretext but every motive for en
croachment upon them. !f, by the non-alTurnption, an interfer
ence is produced, their danger will be the more imminenr. For
if they prevail in the const ft, they will be ruined by difurnon. If
they fail,they will befwallowed up in the consolidation. I wish,
among other reasons, to have the assumption take place, because I
think it will give us the bell security that our government will be
administered as it was made, without fuffering or making en
croachments.
I haltcn to notice some objettians : A public debt is called an
evil and the aflnmption is charged with tending to increafe'and
perpetuate it. lam not disposed to dispute about words, tho I
believe the debt as a bond of union will compensate the burden of
providing for it. But I cannot admit that it is a greater evii to
owe a debt than to wipe it off without paying it—and if the whole
debt is to be paid, in all events, the alTumption makes no increase,
nay, if the modification firft proposed should be made, thecap'tal
will be diminished near thirteen millions by this measure. It is
said to be cafier to pay 80 millions bv leaving the State debts to be
paid by the States and paying the other debt oui ielves, than to
form the whole into one debt.
By this division of the debt, if there is any force in the
tion, v/ccan pay more, or we shall pay what may becollefted more
t&jily. First, let us fee whether this is true as to what the States
will have to provide for. As it rcfpe&s South-Carolina, the con
trary is confcffedly true. So far is it fiom being a more easy way
of paying, that they cannot pay at all. If Massachusetts can pay
her intercft, it will be with extreme difficulty. One gentlemsn
observed that her efforts had raised a rebellion. It is certain thac
t'.< y »v» :-m r ur 1 "V | -t-he
States has been some proof of their incapacity to make eiL-ftuai
provision.
The State debts are to be paid, or thev arc not—lf by leaving
them upon the States, they will be loft to the creditors that can
not be supposed to be the more conv> nient mode of paying part of
80 millions which is intended by the argument. Befidesthe (hock
to public credit, it would be a loss of so much property. The
disaster would probably be more felt than some of the greatest
physical evils, such as inundation or blading the* earth for a time
with barrenntfs. If then the debts are to be paid, by what means ?
The gentleman from Virginia, has strongly reprobated excises.
The States cannot touch the impost, what remains ? Dirett taxes
only. This source will be soon exhausted. The land tax of
England is not more than a sixth part of its income. They have
carried it as far as they think prudent. Why should not labor
and flock contribute as well as land ? For these give their chief
value to its produ&s It cannot be expected that the detit will be
fafe to reft upon a land tax—lt is not even mortgaged at all in En
gland. If our entire funds are barely fufficient, nearly a single
fund, and that not the best will be inadequate. It is a better one
in England than in America—For the wild land makes it lmpof
fible to impose very heavy taxes upon the old settlements, the op
prefTed people will fly beyond the reach of collectors. It is be
sides much more easy to procure the money in England than iii
America. Land taxes arc not only inefficient but liable toother
objections—Land is to be taxed according to quantity or value.
If the former, it will not produce much. If according to value,
then you inuft rcfort to arbitrary afTefTments, more obnoxious
than excises. Every farmer almost can attest the force of this ob
jection. The expence too in England is little—but in this coun
try it is otherwise. Taxes on land have cost as much to collect as
excif s. In one of the States, lam told that the colleflion has
been eftimatcd at 30 per cent. Experience too has proved that
the States, cannot pay their debts by direst taxes. It has bcca
pushed to the utmost extent and found inefficient.
The argument which has been urged by the gentleman from
Virginia against excises, seems to exclude revenue;
without it the State debts cannot be provided for. The United
States will be compelled to resort to it. It is absolutely necefta
ry for drawing forth the resources of the country. As every man
con fumes, every man will contribute, foreigners and
tianTient people. ImpofU cannot be carried far without defeat
ing the colle&ion. Duties on imported spirits would increase the
use of home made spirits, which cannot be reached without an
xcife. All taxes are in some degree unequal but excises pro
bably as little so as any. The rates are fixed, and very little is
left to imposition and caprice. Besides every consumer taxes him
f If.
If then Congress ftiould not lay excises, the best rcfource of re
venue will be loft. I am persuaded public credit cannot be sup
ported without them. It seems to be a measure of equal nc
eeffity that the States /hould impose them. But the States cannot
do it with convenience, or much effect, for they cannot m<}kc
them general. They will vary in the States, and hold out tempta
tions to an infinity of frauds. The States are restrained from re
gulating foreign tiade, or that from State to State—with such vast
fiontier lines to watch, and their powers on the importation and
.>alfage of goods by land so much restrained, and their laws ob
'h uftcd and controverted by the laws of the union, much of the
colle&ion will be defeated. The excifc in Maflfachufetts and
Conn dficut, it is fuppoled, has not produced 10f. in the pound of
what it might be made to yield. Ido not pretend that there is
:cfs wisdom in the States, but they labour under almost infur
nountable difficulties—lt is doubtful whether they will be able to
Col!'tt much, and if they should, the burden of these rival lawa
has been found nearly equal to another ta*»
nfe? o
[Whole No. 12?.]Betides one State will tax another. The canfurtisrs will go to
the mult convenient market. So that the attempt to make each
State pay its own debt will be defeated, and the payments will
fall as unequally as if the ademption (hculd take place and the ac
counts not be fettled. New-Humpfhire, Connnetticut, Jerky and
North-Carolina would pay almost wholly into the trcafuries ol
the neighbor States. ' The non-importing States will be obliged
also to°impofe direa taxes to pay their creditors, so that their
citizens will be doubly taxed. If State exeifes then yield so little
and are so unequal, where are th le mysterious, State resources,
■which are inacceffable to Congress ? If they are not of an incom
municable nature, we can judge better by hearing the fubjefts of
taxation named. It ought to appear that such ex it, and that Con
gress could not draw, them forth.
Ifyou rejetl exeifes, you cannot have an adequate revenue,
and if the States have alio excites, the revenue will be impoverifti
ed and hazarded. For if ail article can pay both duties there is a
loss to get bat one, it might as well be collided throughout the li
nked States, as in one State, and if it cannot pay both, one or both
trcafuries will fuffcr tor the loss. Betides you incur a double ex
pence of "colle6tion.
What revenues are left you it the excise is rejected ? With such
a (lender sum yuu cannot oiler new terms. The modification o!
the entire debt as full proposed makes a saving in the capital of
almost thirteen millions. The debt to be alfumed is about twen
ty-four. The interest on the difference, or on the real increase of
debt by a (Turning is less than 500,000 dollars yearly.
We depend upon two principles tor the fecuri y of the revenues.
One 'S that th: trading people will not be difpo'ed to offend, and
the other is that all others will be inclined to watch and expose
them if they flvould. Never waifapapular a revenue fylLim. But
the violence to the jull demands of the creditors, depriving them
of the money they have been used to receive, and creating in the
ltates an nterelt to have your collection fail, in order to made the
llatefunds cffe6lu.il, will produce a moll disastrous change. It is
Jetting men's interdls as well as opinions against you. Nor wiil
the landed intcrell have a different sentiment—For they will be
murmuring under the load of direst taxes, and the more the ftati
revenues can be improved by lessening the national, the less they
will have to bear.
What reason is there, then, for afferiing that more money can be
obtained and more easily, by several fylkems than by one ? rh,s
bold atfertion which the sense of America would refute, il its ex
perience had not done it already, is not true of imposts. I have
■ endeavoured to expose its fallacy with regard to lUie excifts—They
produce much evil and little money. Direct taxes, infulficient as
they are, can be imposed by Congress to any amount, which ought
to be required as well as by the ttatcs, and I do not know that they
would be more obnoxious. It is true jull complaint is made ot
their unequal operation, and I trust thatcongrefswill not be under
the neceflity to call ior them. What advantages for taxation do the
Hates possess over Congress ? We ought not to admit that any
fr-.hexift till the reasons and lafls are made knowns to us — which
W:thout adequate funds, the (btcs cannot propofeto their cre
ditors .1 modification of the debt. By the constitution, they are
reftraiued from palling laws to impair I He burden
v. .11 reft upon the dates if not afluincd, at fix per cent, for without
funds the creditors will not content to take less ; il illumed, upon
Congress at four; is this the more cafy way of paying part ot 80
millions ? It makes a ditfercncc of lcveral millions aganift the
public. ......
It we commit an error by not afTuming, it will be an expenlive
one Have we funds so abundant and fate, thatweinay divide and
mangle with impunity ? But we are told that probably there will
be an alTumption at the next feflion, and that it is improper top-Is
a decision at the prcitnt, especially as immediate provilion i> not
to be made, and as delay will reconcile nun's minds to the mea
sure Tiiis is plaufiolr, but at Icall it is yielding the great points
to the principl . If the bulinefs Ihould be relerred to the next lei
fion, with intent then to aflume, ihc Hates will not impul taxes
and frame funding systems (or hall a year. In the mean tnn.-,
this ftateot their paper will make it the fubjeft ot the mott perni
cious (peculation. It will be engrossed for a tnfb by foreigner!,
and at tbc la me timk aggravate the fcartitv of money by employ
in' what there is, in purchases. In this (late ot fufpenle and to s
vTll the public mind become tranquil ? Will it unite the two torn
of creditors? But tho' you delay the interest on the ftatc debts to
i-q-, you pass the revenue laws as soon as pofflble. By delay
vou will lofethe revenue which may accumulate prior to that
t'ime—Suppofe a million and an half obtained before the payment
of interest lhall beg n, thatfum will secure the .interell agamit any
probable deficiency oftheduties for twoor three years. Will not
the public, will not the creditors ot every dcfcription, derive ad
vantage from an immediate alfumption and eftablilhineut ot du
ties, and from the proposed delay of paying interell ?
It is an unusual thing for a gentleman 111 a public alfetsbly to a„-
fcrt that four fifth of the people arc of his wayot thinking. This
however has been done. It is not ftrarfge for persons to mistake
their own opinion for that of the public. These fond prepotLlH
ons may be received instead of evidence; but they cannot weigh
much against evidence. My information may have Been less dili
e-ntlv fought, and less carefully examine 1 than that gentleman's ;
but I have compared it with what has been gathered by my
friends, and I dcclare that I belie efourfuhsof the wile and wor
thy men, in a very wide extent of country, look with strong dis
approbation upon the injulli-e, and with anxious terror upon the
impolicy of rejcfling the llate debts.
Little notice has been taken of an argument fo,r the alfumption,
which it iuft, is entitled to a great deal ; 1 mean that which has
been ur-ed to shew that it will (lengthen the government. The
answer given is, that, instead of pecuniary influence, new powers
ere wanting to the constitution. This is not denying the arg 1-
nient, but aliening a propofuion, which, iftalfe, isto be disregard
ed and if true, is not inconfiftcot with the point in question. So
far'from denying, it seems to admit the utillity of the alfumption,
and affrrtsthe ut'illi yof some other thing. Which other thing
he his not explained, and if he had, it is probably unattainable,
nor will its attainment, be it what it may, be prevented by the af
fump'um —But before we ask for new poweis on paper, let us
rxercifc those which are actually veiled in Congress. What will
new powers avail us, if we fuffer the constitution to become a dead
letter ? What has dropped from the gentleman in regard,lo this
point, amounts to an important eonccffioii. Little topics «>f ob
jection fink to nothing, when it is allowed that the alTumption will
strengthen the government. Is the principle of union too Itrong ?
Do not all good m ndefircto make it pertect ? What nation has
more to hope from union, or to fear from disunion ? Shall we
makethe union less strong than the people have intended to make
it by adopting the constitution ? And do not all agree, that the
aliumption is not a neutral measure ? If its adoption will give
flrength tothe union, its rejetlion will have the co.itrary effect.
I have thoughfof this government with the fondeft cnthufiafm.
I have conlidered it as tending to mend the condition of mankind,
and to pet petuate the bleflings o# liberty.—At this late period of
the debate, it is hardlv polfible for gentlemen to exercile impartia
lity. It willbe an a£l of virtue, of magnanimous fclf command
to do more—to place thcmfelves for a mom< nt in the situation ol
the advocates of the aflumption, and to (et with their eyes. They
love their country, and mean to serve it; and lam sure they would
(brink from the fpeflreof its misery which haunts us; they would
not consent to undo the constitution in practice, to realize the evils
•which were only apprehended under theconfederaiion, and which
were preven ed' by the total w„nt of power in Congress. With
this principle, however, it will be found that power enough is gi
ven to create division; and to make it fatal : It will beggar the
govermcntj and bind it in chains.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 30.
A MESSAGE was received from the Prendent
of the United States, with the copy'of an
Ast of theLegiflature of the State of Rhode Island,
for ratifying certain articles of amendment to
the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. Williamfon presented a Memorial from
Dr. Thomas Rufton, in behalf of the directors of
s Cotton Manufactory in the State of Pennsylva
nia.
In Committee of the whole on the bill concern
ing the tradeand navigation of the United States.
Mr. Madison entered into a discussion or the
principles on which the trade and navigation of
.he United Stales ought to be regulated—the
idea of discrimination in refpedt to foreigners,as
proposed in the bill originally, having been di(-
lgreed to,however juft and reasonable he thought
that diitintftion to be, he said, as there appeared
to be a majority againftit, he ihould wave any
further arguments on the fubjecJt, and would
fuggeit the principle of reciprocity as an idea
which would meet the general approbation of
the Committee.. Ke adduced several particulars
to lliew that tfreciprocity does not exist in our
:rade andintercourfe with Great Britain ; while
our (hipping is excluded from many of her ports,
and admitted into others under such restrictions
as are nearly tantamount to a prohibition—their
(hipping is freely admitted into all the ports,
harbors and bays of the United States.
He then read two propositions in the following
words, which he proposed Ihould be added as
clauses to the bill, viz.—
Aid be it further enafled, That in all cases
where veflels belonging to the citizens of the
United States may be prohibited from bringing
any articles from any foreign port or place, by
laws or regulations of the sovereign thereof, into
any port or place within the United States, the
vellels belonging wholly or in part to the fabjecfts
of such sovereign, shall after the dny
of during the continuance of such
prohibition, be prohibited from bringing like
articles into the United States, 011 pain of being
seized and forfeited to their ule. And the mas
ters or owners of all foreign vefiels clearing
from any port of the United States, with any ar
ticles the growth,produce or manufacture there
of, ihall give bond with fufficient security, that
no part of the said articles {hall be delivered at
any port or place to which vefiels belonging to
citizens of the United States may not be permit
ted to tranfporc like articles from the United
States.
And b; it further enaClid, That in all cases
where velTels belonging to citizens of the United
States, may bi prohibited by the laws or regular
tions of that foreign country, from carrying
thereto articles not the growth, produce or ma
nufofture of the United States, the veflels belong-
ing wholly or in part to the fubjeifts, citizens or
inhabitants of such country, lhall, after the
day of and continuance of
such prohibition, be prohibited in like manner
from bringing any articles not the growth, pro
duce or manufacture of such country, into the
United States, 011 pain of being seized and for
feited to their ule.
These proportions being considered as very
interesting and important in their consequences,
it was moved that the committee Ihould rife, that
the members might take time to consider them.
The motion tor the committee's rising was op
posed. m *
Mr. Wadfworth asked ifllat reason could be as
signed for the committee's rising ?—for his part
lie was ready to meet the propofi lions—he be
lieved he (hould vote for them—He considered
them a« calculated to try the strength of the com
inittee—it is coming to the point—it is proposing
a very bold nieafure indeed ; but if it is thought
we can Hand the shock.l Ihould have no objection
to try it. I hope the committee will proceed to
discuss the propositions.
Mr. Vining observed that he had no objection
to taking up rhe fubjedt—but as gentlemen ap
pear desirous of taking time to consider the pro
positions he was in favor of the committee's ri
sing—With refpedt to the " boldness" of the
measure, he wis at a loss to find the propriety of
the epithet—for his part, he considered it as a
measure offirmhefi —and as such highly becom
ing the national legislature of this country to
adopt.
Mr. Sherman observed, that he saw nothing
that favor'd of boldness in the propositions—they
appeared him to be natural, and nothing more
than a proper aflertion of the equal rights of
thiscountry— It is merely meeting with counter
regulations, the regulations of other countries,
that are hostile to our huerefts—this we have a
right undoubtedly to do. I hope the committee
will not rife, but discuss thefubjetf, that the me
rits of the propositions may be fully known.
Mr. Goodhue spoke generally in favor of the
propositions, and agaiuft the committee's rising.
Mr. Jacklon was in favor of the committee's
rising—the propositions he considered as very ex
traordinary indeed—and if they should be adopt
ed, they will annihilate, in a great measure, the
510
trade of Georgia, to the Welt-ladles, andiict,?-
lievecl of North Carolina too, notwithllandin
what the gentleman from that State has said j'it
the course of debate on this fubjedl.-~II e though*
it extraordinary that the gentleman from Vj r .
ginia should come forward with one exccpti ona .
ble proportion after another—the gentleman hav.
ing 101 l one favorite propodtion, so tenacious is
he of his object, that he now brings forward ano
tlier, in my opinion,faid lie,fuHas exceptionable.
The question being taken was carried in the
affirmative—the committee rose, and reported the
proportions, which are to be taken into coniidcr
ation to-morrow.
Ihe house then went into committee on the
WAYS and MEANS for pacing the intcreft on
the public debt.MSoine time was Ipent in (i, t
consideration of me plan reported by Mr. Ki: z .
limons, Uit tlje committee did not come toaiv
decision. Adjourned. 1
THURSDAY, JULY i.
The petition of John Fitch, of
lative to steam as applied to the purpofcs ofna»J»
gation, was read. '
Mr. Boudinot of tlie committee appointed for
thar purpose reported a bill to provide for the
national defence.
The bill further to provide for the payment of
the invalid penfionera of the U. S. was read the
third time and parted.
A was received from the Irefident of
the United Sta.es, informing that he had given
his assent to three a<fts, which originated in the
House : An A<ft providing the means of intercom fe
between the United States and foreign nations:
An Ast, for the relief of Nathaniel Twining, aits
an Act to fatisfy the claims of Joirn Mctord a
gainst the United States.
A mefiagefroni the Senate informed thelioufe
that they had palled the bill extending the enu
nieration law to the State of Rhode-lfiand.
The report of the committee 011 the memorial
of Thomas' Barclay was read—the fnbftance of
which is, that the sum of 3333-$ dollars be allow
ed the Memorialist in full for his services during
thetime he was employed by the United States,
exclusive of neceflary expences. A motion for
re-committing the report occafionedfoine debate,
but was carried in the affirmative.
hi committee of the whole on the Ways and
Means to discharge the intereftof thedebtof the
United States, the resolutions of the feletf com
mittee were agreed to—these are, I ft. to encrealr
tlielmpoft one/A/r(/--and the duties on the follow
ing enumerated articles to the sum annexed :
each— Distilled Spirits ij-.
Madeira Wine 32. (Centsp,
Other Wines iSj. r gallon
Molafles 3s. ) I
Bohea Tea 10. Cents pr. lb.
Souchong and other black Teas, 18. 1-6.
Hyson 32.
Other Green Teas 20'.
Coffee 4.
Brown Sugar ih.
Loaf ditto 5.
All other do. 2£.
Pepper 7. 4-100,
' Pimento /y.
Nutmegs 6j.
Macc 2;.
Mace-
Cinnamon 20.
Cloves I2i.
Caflia 10
2. Resolved, That after the day of
thedifcount of ten per cent.of the duties on g'>ods,
wares and merchandize, imported in lhips or
veflels, the property of a citizen or citizens of the
United States, be discontinued, and that an addi
tion of ten per cent, be made to the duties of!
goods, wares, or merchandise, imported in any
other {hip 01* veflel-
Ordered, That tliefe Resolutions lie on the ta
ble till to-morrow. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, JULY 2.
The report of the committee ol the whole houfr on the wz\s
and means to discharge the interest on the debt of the United
States was taken up, and agreed to without amendment.
"Mr. Stone moved to insert the article fait at an additional cutv
of 2 cents per bufliel—this occasioned a lengthy debate; the mo
tion was negatived.
A committee confiding of Mi. Fitznraom. Mr Sherman an
Mr. Tucker, was appointed to bring in a bill agreeable to there
port.
A meflage was received from the Senate, with a bill, _ eter
inining the temporary and permanent residence of Congre' s "~ t e
lubftance of which is, that the temporary residence (hall be at . -
ladelphia from the commencement of the next feflion io Decent,
btr, till the year 1800 ; and from that period, the permanent rcy
dence to be on the Potowmac This bill was read the nr an
lecond time—ordered to be printed, and referred totheeomm" c
of tne whole house on Tucfday next. - . c
The report of the Committee on the Fees, Bcc: to the <^ nu !^f c
the United States, was taken into consideration. The nn c z
of the report authorised Consuls and Vice Consuls to rc £ cl ? C
similar to those eftablflhed by law in the places for whic. t -e>
appointed ; and where no such fees are eft ablilhed, they wete 0
allowed dollars on the entry and clearance of e\er) 1
rican veflel of 100 tons and under—and dollar* on
such veflel of 100 tons and upwards. This clause, on nio
Mr. Fitzfimons was struck out. The othi!r parts o tic . r _
which allows them to receive dollars f f " CO^V| S & f .
tificates and other documents, also to own American u^ m ' lltcc i
were agreed to. It was then voted that the bill be re-n
—and the Committee inftrutled to consider and tepoj
ther provision should be made for Consuls and Vice- 0
Mr. Benfon had leave of abfencc for a fortnight.
Adjourned till MoneUy 10 o'Clock.
if-•:
7. 4-100,in thcjiclckof debates it the report of the Conferral ff-r ,accm>nj- the Am?.ic:::i war, abovfi three hundred t'uoufanJ
Siting the differences between the Senate and the Hmf:)ort Pnin, tons . a!]c l J u t| lc bare article of cotton, the ill
■ult. mention wis made ot an objection to the report, on the principle that , , . . . ... ....
the committee had exceeded their eominjfjion : hut ,n anfaJto this it *11 Cre3,e JI3S bse » 111 tlle proportion ot seven nillh
urged, that the committee were appointed for the purpofr of accomqodit- ons £0 twenty one.
ihgths differences mentioned : that the Senate were desirous of inxreaf- Blanchard, to please the diet at Wjivfaw, is.gO
the fataries of the minijlers, and of granting them an outfit, or of j to jjiake another aerial voyage, ill a balloon
riving to the President a senei al power to apply the money ahbrotriated • . _ - i . , . ' f
% thebili, a S he Z? think p,oper-ik*t the llfi profit J i,eL Lx<d e.ghc times larger than the onehe ascended with
vy the House, it only remained to accommodate the dispute by increasing before—the gondOia weighs 000 pounds, a.KI IS
the filaries, or by granting an outfit \ or to determine that the billfhould to COtaira a fecoild perfoil—the fir it gondola
b< loj1—The committee on the part of the House, as well as of the Senate, weighed only fifteen
thought the bin too important to be rejected, and therejire aped to give T % j fft d * •d tQ excefe absorbs,
to the Pre ident authority to grant such an outfit, not c ceedingone year s ... .. . /r* r i c
salary, as he Jhould think proper—that fhould this principle be adtpt'd, I'ke all Other paiilOllS, a part ot our natural at
ihiangmcntition of theJum would follow of course ; because the House fedtioilS.
when theyfired it at 30,000 provided for two mmi/lers plempo- Frederick Morel was busily employed in tranf
Untiary, and two charges ies affairs, and if the sam /houli not be inrreij- ]at ; Liban ; us when he Was informed that his
ed there would t>e no accommodation ; for to grant the ovtfrts. the Prefi- . • . , . r . r , - n
dent mufl lejfen the number of minijl /s, all of whom, tiie errctary of Wilt?, who had been lome time lick, was veiy 111,
State informed the conferrees wouldprobci'ify be requijitc \ that the jum and wiihed to speak with him. i( I have only,"
altho appropriated two ,/d not be applied by the President unless it jhoulu said he, t€ two periods of this chapter to translate,
be necejjary ; andths: this concern <~, f::Mrt at this after wh j ch J W JII call and fee her.
time necellaty, tslome negotiations aitr Joret'n nationiaretnd-lpei.fiUc ... , ... „ , ■ , „
anl the bill ts limited to \e?r<. J ' ' A second message came to tell him that me was
Erratum —In Mr. Shei in;.'fpt( ch, publifhfd in this proper at the point of death. I have but tWO words to
of the 19th uk. lift lnir, before the word obf."oat:ons t inUrtfurther write" (aid Morel, " run back to her—l lhall be
THE TAB-LET. No. CXXVIII
" Nature is mire powerful than fancy, and the mofl
artful fiflions mufi give tody to truth."
IT may look like a contradiction in terms, to
fay that a man muftltrivc hard to act with sim
plicity. Art is perhaps never used to better effect
than in concealing art, except when it is used to
counteract it. The forceof simplicity is so great,
that whoever adheres to if, will be deemed wor
thy of imitation ; but still he cannot ealiiy be
imitated, Those who take delight in viewing
fnbjects by the fair rays of truth, and to make
their actions correspond with the dictates of nil
mingled propriety, mud; engage in a perpetual
conflict with prejudice, fancy, and falfhood.—
There are coxcombs in all profeffions ; men who
pre:end to something more than they deserve ;
jnen who only can derive consequence by giving
a specious coloring to the garb of affectation.—
There are quacks in all arts, who are supposed to
poflefs knowledge in thii.gs which they do not
understand. Such coxcombs and quacks will en
deavor to establish falfe rules of propriety, which
mud be detected and opposed by all, who prefer
real knowledge to boaftcd pretentions; and who
delight in the pyre images of nature, more than
the capricious fictions of art.
The term simple is often used as fynonimous to
wrak or (illy; and this abates the force of it, when
used in its more proper sense, which is to express
the real, unmixed character of a thing. Those
who attempt to strip a fubjedt of all falfe ap
pearances,have a great talk to perform, bur if they
acronipli/b ir their fnbors are well lewnrded.—
There are few men so attached ro error, but tlu-y
■will soon prefer truth, when it is fairly pointed
out ; there are still many men who prefer their
own errors to those of other people. But let them
ouce behold the simplicity of truth, and its charms
can hardly be resisted. The gr«ater part of inan
ksnd are conflantly engaged, from habit or pro
ieflion, in giving a fictitious value and a fictitious
character to moit of the appearances which aie
exhibited to the view of the world. How few of
the plausible representations, to which our atten
tion is called, will bear to be ftridlly compared
with a (late of facts ! How many of the elabor
ate fyfteins which are perplexing the votaries of
science, must vanifli intofnoke, if the principles
on which they are built, were faithfully tried
by the standard of truth and reason. For when
ever they are brought in competition, nature will
be found more powerful than fiction ; nor will
the fuggellions of caprice and prejudice be listen
ed to, when ti uth, single and unalloyed, makes
its appeal to the heart.
LNO DON April 7
CLEMENTI Paoli, brother to the general of
that iiaine t has returned to his native hland
of Corsica, after 2oyears absence, during which
time lie was proscribed, and apricc set upon his
head
He was received at Baftia with thegreateft ho
nors ; the whole city was illuminated,and repeat
ed discharges of artillery announced his entry.
Ke was alinoft immediately eletfted and proclaim
ed president for life of the patriotic committee e
stablished for maintaining peace and older
ilirough the Island
The city of Dublin has lately received a beauti
ful additon to its numerous decorations, in the
ftrnd-ore of another fountain ; this elegant con
flrudtion iserecfted opposite theChurch,in James's
ftrcet. It exhibits a pyramind of an altitude ex
reeding forty-feet, and near its summit on the
south-cast and well fide, are tablets with fundi
nls ; it forms, oil the whole, a very grand objeift.
April 16.
The profpetffc of this country affords 3 pleasing
conceit; our national debt in a train of liquida
tioa, money in plenty, our political interest in the
scale of Europe hu>li, our commerce rapidly ex
tending, and our population increasing. >
As fomo proofs, out of the many \vh:ch may be
adduced, in favor of the above defcripiion, the
fhippingof tliis country has been iticreafed since
there as soon as you." • A moment after, he was
told (he was dead. "I am sorry for it," said he
(he wasa worthy wofltan"—and went 011 with
his work.
A Mr. Dunconibe, to whose abilitiesthe world
is greatly indebted, and who is engineer to the in
tended canal forming a junction of the Severn and
the Dee, has invented a method os-railing boats
of any tonnage to the highelt summit whatever,
and letting down the lame without loss of water,
with perfeftfafety, and more expedition than by
the common water locks now in use. What is
more remarkable, aloaded or unloaded boat may
come up, while a loaded one goes down, and the
fame maybe done while an empty one goes down.
The whole is performed by an uniform unaccele
rated motion, and is perhaps one of the greatest
inventions that ever entered the mind of a man.
The Eafl Indiacompany have presented the Ar
menian merchant; at Calcutta, who celebrated his
inajelly's recovery, by releasing a great number of
prifotiers confined in the goal there, with the
kings picture, set round with diamonds, asa token
ol their acknowledgments to him for this signal
instance of munificence.
Among other curiosities belonging to the old College of Edin
burgh, which is now to be pulled down, is an ancient gate, the
top of which is heavy and bulges. There was a prophecy spoken
many years since, that this would fall upon the m ifl leaned
man ol the Univcrfity/—lt is amazing with what caution the pro
feflors uied to avoid going through it!
A malflcr in the country his lately taken a dancing master into
partnership with him. A witty correfponderit fid on the occa
sion, the alliance was a very natural one— u for what fignifics
malt without hops ?"
On LSe evening before a battle, alt officer came to theJMarfhal
de Tol r as, to alk permiflion to go fee his father* who he said
wa* at the point of death, in order th«it he might pay his lait duty
to him. " Go," replied the General* who readily guesTed .h
cause, " honor thy father and thy mother, that thy da)s may be
long in The land."
BOSTON, June 28.
Saturday last arrived Capt. John Tucker, in
the brig Diamond, from Martinique,and St. Eufta
tius.—He left Martinique the sth day of June, at
which time a report prevailed, that News had just
arrived from Fiance, and that all the Ports in the
French Weft-Indies were ordered to be Ihut a
gainll the Americans.
On Capt. Tucker's arrival at St. Euftatius, he
saw the Ordinance of France publifli'd in the
Gazette of that Illand, which forbid the admilli
on of our flag in the French Ports.
Extratt of a letter from Martinique, "June, 3.
" This day according to the cultom of the
French, is a high holiday, and preparation was
making accordingly, when a plot was discovered
that turned all their mirth. The Mulattos had
combined together to murder every white person
in the illand, but by good fortune it was discover
ed byaMulatto girl. I havejuft come from the
fliore, and oh ! my God ! fucli a scene I never saw.
Many hungup and ftab'd in fifty different places,
others Ihot down dead in the streets, the fame as
wild beads, then ltab'd and trampled upon. All
this I have Teen not ten minutes since—every man
underarms—No sooner a mulatto is discovered,
than he is Ihot" or hung immediately, without any
trial.
The mulattoes have confefled that they were
to meet in two bodies at the north and south
part of the town, then ru(h in and kiil every
white inhabitant, and burn the (hipping.
The Legiflatur* ot Ncw-Himp/hirc has directed, that on the last
Monday of Auguji next, the people ot that Slate, cleft their Federal
Representative:*.
An officer, belonging to one of<he Engli/h (liips taken by the
Spaniardson the Nonh-Wcftcoaftof ihis continent, arrived here
I me time Cose, in the Ijlrea, Capt. Magee, from China.
The sum demanded ol Spain, by England, as restitution for
the Ihips taken by the former is 200,000!. (lerling.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NZW.YORK.
Sloop Maria, Elliot, Charleston, 5 days.
—• —Cynthia, White, ditto ditto.
Maria, ■, St. Augu(line T 6
, Bird, Philadelphia, 5
Union, Watson, ditto ditto.
Srhooncr, Edward, Thompson, Shelburne, le
Thetii, Burket, Antigua, 15
Snip Brothers, Dougall, Amfti rdam, 56
Brig Carolina, Meade, Wilmington [N. C.J
511
May 7.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF*THE UNITED STATES.
JEU D'ESPRIT.
<{ "|\ yTUST Congrcfs go"—Corinna cried,
Ivl " And I not yet fifteen ?
" Julia's a Congrcfs man's sweet bride,
" So should I, soon have been /
" How old are you ?"—" Fourteen last May, "
" Oh then feci no chagrin,
*• An even bet, one (afe might lay,
" They're back cie you're fifteen."
NEW-YORK, JULY 3, 1790
MR. FENNO,
From the English letter in your last paper, it
appears evidently, that the people of Great-Bri
tain, from the Merchant to theMinifter, forefee
lng the advantagds that will accrue to America
from a proper attention to, and support of her
{hipping interelt, are determined if polfible, to
defeat our expectations, and to throw every ob
ftaclein the way, to prevent our success.
The deep laid scheme of reducing the freight's
for a time, till they have annihilated the Ameri
can {hipping, is to make the southern States pay
dearly in tlte result for their credulity, and inat
tention to the gen-eral welfare of the States of
which they are members. The diftiniftion be
tween apprentices and mariners, is palpably de
signed to counteract a most ejlential mode of
raising American fearnen ; and to prevent our
continuing to enjoy that triflng /hare of the trade
to Britain, which we now pofl'efs. To these ob ;
fervations may be added the following—That if
the carrying trade was lccured to American citi
zens, the profits thereon, even at the present low
freights, are fufficient to allure monied men to
place tkeir cash in (hipping—and as a proof that
Great-Britain cannot afford to carry our produce
on the fame terms that America can, if the trade
was secured to herfelf, the following example is
adduced as demonstrative.
The Brig ———is allowed to be as strong a
veflel as ever entered the Thames, and fails fait
—Ihe inealures upwards of 300 tons, carries 600
hogsheads, and cost £3,253 si 3 di l i, Virginia cur
rency—having the advantage of a freight to Eu
rope as soon as fitted, the earned on her firft voyage
£.965 14 11 Sterl.—Her second voyage will pro
bably produce £.970 Sterl. —
That will be £ 1935 14 11 within the year—
and if as well employed will be a clear ihip in i
years. A Britilh Ihip of the fame burthen, and
as good, would coll at Brillol, Whitehaven, or
London, from 13 pounds, to 13 guineas, pr. ton,
or £. 5660 4 Virginia currency 14 people, of
which y maybe 'prentices, are fufHcient forfnch
a ve(l«l—which can fail 011 as low tefins as any
Britifhlhip; reckoning theintereft and insurance
on each, it will be found to take double the time
to clear a Britilh Ihip, that it will to clear an A
merican—and when the latter are built faithful
ly out of young seasoned timber will last
near, or full as long.
Accounts fruin Cadiz, via Baltimore, inform
that the Spaniards have 40 fail of the line, be
lides a large number of frigates equipt for sea
and that a declaration of war was hourly expedled.
The anniversary of Independence will be ce
lebrated in this city, on Monday next—by the
Cincinnati, the society of St. Tammany, and the
uniform military companies. An Oration will be
delivered on the orcalion, to the Society Cincin
nati, by BROCKHOLST LIVINGSTON, Esq.
To-morrow morning the new Dutch Church
in Nafl'au ftreet,will be opened for divine service.
The Rev. Dr. Livingston will officiate 011 the
occalion.
Wcdnefday afternoon his Excellency the Governor accom
panied by the Hon. Ezra L'Hommedieu and Richard Varick
Efqrs. returned to this city from Fort Stanwix, having/with the*
other commiflloners, completed a treaty with the Onondaga and
Cayuga nations of Indians.
INTELLIGENCE FROM BOSTON.
The Hon. GEORGE CABOT ischofen Senator
of the United States, by jhe Legislature of Mas
sachusetts—to take his feat wh«n the time of the
Hon. TRIS i RAM DALTON expires.
The Legislature of Mafl'achufetts has adjourn
ed.—Certain inftru&ions to their Senators ia
Congress on Qompenfations, Salaries and Pensi
ons, were reported—and referred to the next
felfion.
The Governor, by tlie Secretary, informed the
Legislature that'he had not given hisafTenttothe
A«a for ceding the Light Houses.to the United
States—he aifigned no reafou for this.—The A6t
is however a Law, by the constitution of that
State.
There whs a diflonance in opinion between
the Governor and the Senate 011 the fubjeift of
Afl'umption of the Srate Debts.—The Governor
supposed that the consent of the Legislature of the
State was neceflary—the Senate thought that
Congress had a right to aflume without such con
sent—The Houfejanfwered the Governor's lpeech
—the Senate did not.—The collation proposed
by the Governor on the Anniversary of Inde
pendence, was not agreed to by the Legislature.
Counter orders for a military parade on that oc
casion, have been iflued.
(t Discourses on Davila," will be continued in our next
" Lycurcus" isreceived.THE NEW CONSTITUTION
OF THE STATE OP SOCJTH-CAROINA.
(continuation.)
Seel. 8. person shall be eligible to a feat in the Senate un-
less he is a free white man, of the age of thirty
years,and hath been a citizen and refidcntinthis ftatefive years pre
vious to his elc&ion. If a resident in the election difln£t, he fha.l
not be eligible, unless he be legally seised and poflefled in his own
right of a fettled freehold estate of the value of 3001. fterling,clear
of debt. II a non-rdident in the ele&ion diftr.ct, he shall not be
eligible unless h? be legally seised and possessed in his own right of
a fettled freehold eft; te inth? said diflritt of thejva ueofone thou
sand pounds sterling clear of debt.
Sett. g. Immediately alter the Senators shall be afTembled in
consequence of the firft election, they shall be divided by lot into
two dalles. The feats of the Senators of the firft class shall be va
cated at the expiration of the second year, and of the second class
at the expiration ot the fourth year ; so that ooc"~half as nearly as
poflible, may be chosen forever thereafter every second year for
the term of year?.
Scß. 10. Senators and members of the Houle of Reprefenta
tivei, shall be ciiofen on thefecqnd Monday in O&ober next, and
the day follqwmand on ibe fame days in every fecona year
thereafter, in such ma finer and at such times as are herein directed.
And fh2ll meet on the fourth Monday in November, annually at
Columbia, (which shall remain the fe3t of government until otner
•wife determined by the concurrence of two-thirds of both branch
es otthe whole representation) unici% ihecsfu*!tict-of war, or con
tagious difordcrs, fliouM render it unfafe to meet there, in either
of which cales Che governor or co.nmander in chief for the time
bring, may by proclamation appoint a more fecuie and conven
ient place of meeting.
Se£7. 11. Kach houfc shall judge of the ele&ions, returns, and
qualifications of its own members, and a majority of cach house
ihall conflitatc a quorum to do business ; but a (mailer number
may adjoin 11 from day to day, and may be authorised to compel
the attendance ofabfent members, in such manner, and under such
penalties as may be provided by law. \
Sccl. 12. JiJch houfc shall chufe by ballot, its-own officer*,
cctei mine tts rules of proceeding, punish its members for difor
derlv behaviour, and with the concurrence of two thirds, expel
a member, but not a fccond time for the fame cause.
Std. 13. E;xh house may punifhjby imprifoument during its
fitting, any person not a member, who shall be guiltv cf difre
fpeifc to the by any difoiderly or contemptuous behaviour
its presence, who during the time of its fitting (hall threaten
harm to the body or estate of any member, for any thin" said or
done in either house, or who shall assault any of them therefor,
or who shall aflault or arreit any witness, orother pcrfon oidered
to attend the houfc, in his going to or returning therefrom, or
who shall rrfcue any person arretted by order of the house.
Sect. 14. The members of both houses shall be pro e<Jed in
♦heir perlons rnd estate* during their attendance on, go to and
returnmc from the legislature, and trn days previous to the fitting,
and ten day* after the adjournment of the legifiatmr! But these
priv.leges shall not be extended foasto protest any member who
shall be charged with treason, felony, or breach of the peace.
Seel. Bills for raising a revenue lh.il! originate in the houfc
of rrprefcntatives, but may be altered, amended orrcjcded by the
fenaie.
All other bills may originate in cither house, and may be
amended, altered or rejected by the other.
See!. 16. No billorordinancc shall have the force of law,until
it (hall have hern read three times, and on three several dajs in
ta r h house, has had the great seal affixed to it, and has been limn
ed in the fen ate houfc bv the prtfidcnt of the fenaie, and the speak
er of the house of reprefent3tives.
$c< : ?. 17. No money shall be drawn out of the public trcafury,
but by ihc legislative authority of the ftatc.
Sea. 18. Themembers of the Jeg fbture, who shall aflemble
under this ill be entitled to receive out of the pub
lic tieafury, ?s a compenfa'.ion for their expences, a sum not ex
ceeding seven fhtilings sterling a day, durftg their attendance oh,
going to, and returning fiom the legislature, but the fame may b<
encreafed ordiminifhed by law, if circumftapces shall require, but
no alteration shall be mad*: by any legislature to take effe&, dur
ing the exifttnee of the legislature which shall make such alterati
on.
Si J. 19. Neither house {hall without the COnfetrt of the ot' er,
adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other place than that
in which the two houfcs.fhall be fut r u
S«7. 20. No bII or ordinance, which shall have been rej &ed
Ly cither house, (hall be brought in again during that fitting, with
out leave of ihe house, and notice of fix days pnvioudy
given.
•V.*?. si. No person shall be eligible to a feat in the legislature,
whiill he holds any office of profit oi trust under this Hate, the
United States or either of them, or under any other power, except
ofticeis of fh. military army, or navy of this state, justices of t.ie
peace, or jiiftiees of the couniy courts, wht'ie they receive no faia-
Ties ; noi lh:ll any contractor of the army or navy ol this state
the United Slates, or either of them, or th\r agents ot such contrac
tor be eligible to a feat in either house ; and if any member shall
acceptor txercife any of the said difqualifying offices, he shall
vacate his feat.
SeSf. 22T If any cle&ion diftrift, shall neglcd to choose a
number or members, on the days of election, or if any peifon
/cholen a membei, of cither house, fnould refufe to quality and
take his feat, or (hould di~, depart the state, or acccpt ot any dif
qualitv.ng office, a writ otele&ion shall be ifTued by the president
of the senate, or speaker of the house of representatives as the cafe
may be, for the pti: pose of filling up the vacancy thereby occasion
ed, for the remainder ol the teriyi for which the person so refufing
to qualify, dying,dep-rriog the state or accepting a disqualifying
office, was eleftcd to serve.
Sel. 00. And whcrt as the ministers of the are by their
prcfcfT >n dedicated toithe service of God, and the cure of fouls,
and ought not to he diverted from the ijreat duties of their functi
on, therefore no minister «f the gofpe!, »>r public preacher of any
religious perfuafipr, whi Ift h- continues in the excrcife of his pas
toral funttions shall be eligible to the office of governor, lieutenant
governor, or to a feat in the senate, or houle of repreftniatives.
ARTICLE 11,
Seß. :. The executive authority of this (late (hall be vested in
a gover nor, to be cbaien id manner following. As soon as may
be after the fiift meeting of she fcnate and iioufe of reprefenta
tfvet, and a; every firft meeting of the house of reprefrmatives
fhereaftrr, when a majority of both houTej (ball be prtfent, the fe
rnt: and honfeof reprefentatrves fiiall, jointly, in the houfc of re
ptefrntal'vr . rhtife, 6y ballot, a governor, to continue for two
year-, and mini a new elcftion fiiall l>e made.
Se-7. c. No person Ihall be eligible to the office of governor,
unless h< hath attained of thirty years, and hath resided
-within this (late, and bern a eitiztu theicof ten years, and unlets
he befcifcdand pofiirfled of a fettled eflate within the fame, in his
own right, of the value of fifteen hundred pounds sterling, clear
of debt.
No person having served two years a* governor, shall be re-eli
gible I® that office, till after the expiration of four ycar».
N» perfoc (hall held tV office of governor, and anv other of
-<ice, or comniiffion (except in the militia) cither in this fhte or
under any ftatr, or the United Stales, or any oth. r ['ever, a i one
and the fame lime,
(To he continued.)
NEW-YORK, June 2S.
TRANSLATED
FOR TH2 GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FROM THE LETDEN GAZETTE.
Eublifhrd bv Stephin Luzac.
[A Paper thftt is coniidered in £ a rape as cbemoft
authentic medium intelligence —and asfucb
circulates morp extenfirely than any other
similar publication.]
CONTINUED,
Extract of a litter from Feb. I.
THE Turkilh plenipotentiaries who were re
called, have returned here from
companied by a Capigi Bafliaw and a Chivoux,
lit is thought that negociations fjt a peace #ill
be again resumed.
VIENNA, Feb. 12.
The Primate of Hungary, Prince Efterhazy,
with several other grandees of the kingdom, had
an interview with the Emperor, to thank hiin in
behalf oftheir nation, for the reltoraiion of their
rights and privileges, agreeable to his Majesty's
reicript of the 28th of jmuary.
WAR S A VV, Feb. JO.
The vacation ps the Diet was intended to have
been prolonged until the t sth, but the informa
tions received from Bfrjin, -have occasioned the
opening of the felfions the day before yeiterday,
being the time appointed. Mr. Malachowfki,
Marshal of the confederation, has exhorted the
states to avail themselves of the favorable difpo
lition of his Prussian Majesty to favor the Repub
lic ; and to lose no time in placing the army on
the befl pollible footing. l'he project for ad
vancing the officers has been again deliberated,
and foine progress made in it. The acfiivity used
to torni the army in concert with the court of
Berlin, announces the appearance of a war.
N A M I) R, Ft b. 21.
We learn from Treves that General Count
d Alton, formerly commander in chief of the
Imperial troops in the Netherlands, who went
by order of liis matter the Emperor, to Luxem
bargh, to juftify hii condinft before a commiliion,
died in the foimer of these towns, the 16th inlt.
after a few days illness ; and that he was buried
the next day, with the honor due to his rank.
1 lie General was engaged it is said, during his
ljiit days, in preparing a juftificative memorial
for publication. It is supposed that his friends
will finith it, and have it printed.
accounts from Paris, feb. 18.
The President communicated to the Aflembly
the following letter from the Duke of Orleans,
written in London the 13th inft. which was or
dered to be printed and inserted in the verbal
process.
MR. PRESIDENT,
""'ST absent from the National Aflem
bly, Alice tlie perinifliou granted me the 4th of
October Jaltto fulfil the million which his
Majeity did me the honor to entrust to me, I
have since that time been obliged to direct the
efforts of the zeal which animates me in favor of
the of the nation, and the monarch's glo
ry, to other objetfis ; but I am not the less unit
ed in my mind and heart, to theangult AHembly,
of which 1 have the honor to be a member : And
may 1 be permitted to fay that I havepurfued its
affairs with greater interest, as I have always had
the happiness to find my own conformable to the
general wishes exprelled by its decrees. I equal
ly participate in the sentiments of love and re-
Ipeit, with which his Majesty's truly royal and
parental step inspired the Afiembly, when, with
out any other retinue than his virtues, without
any other motive than love for his people, he
came to unite himfelf to the representatives of
the nation, in order to confirm, and to press, if
it were poilible, the happy regeneration, which
forever lecures the glory and happiness of France.
It was natural, that on that memorable day, each
of the mcinoers of the Assembly, ftould be anx
ious to make a public profeffion of the principles,
which it has so constantly praiftifed ; and tocon
o, I l } felt for not having it in my power to par
take 111 this grand even:, I carefully recollect
that I may be of some utility to my country.
In tliefe circumstances, I request you, Mr. Preii
tlent, to intreat the Afiembly in my behalf, to
be pleated to receive my formal adherence to the
oath which its members have taken the 4th inft
and to permit me, like them, « swear fidelity
« ain 1C " a f t,on ', the l aw > King, and to main
( tain, as far as lays ,11 my power, the eonftitu
-11011 decreed by the National Aflembly, and
" accepted by the King."
(Signed) L. P„. I. d'Orleaks.
By this I execute as far as i n my power the
decree pafled the 4 th inft. by ,he Nation.,! As
fembly ; and I shall think myfelf happy to have
been always united with it in sentiments as I
have been >n principles. '
I am, with refpetft,
Mr. President, your
rnoft humble, and
obedient, servant,
* Pn* 1-
, daU<! > the Duke <■} Orleans
firni.Mtfia, E " s '"' "f"
512
?ESR rA R V 2:.
The BiJfoop of Antim, author of the Address
from the National Aflembly to the people oi'
France, has received the fruits of the approia
tion, which his services and zeal for the populv
cause have merited, by his being cliofeu bv tli~
Aflembly to succeed Mr. Bureau de Puly, to t: ;■
President's chair, whose fortnight expired t:
14th inft. out of 603 votes, he was eleeled i,y
393, 125 of the remainder being for the Abli;
Sieyes. On taking his feat the 16th, the Prelate
requested the Aflembly among other things " to
" permit his zeal to solicit the employment oi"
" all their time, and constantly to keep their
" great business in view, and to implore their
" afliftance against every fecoudary objztt, which
" might endeavour to retard their progreis or
" usurp their attention."
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, for the putpofc olrcifing
/and Five Hundred Pottndi, agreabte to en ACT of tjre Ltfliflj.
turf of the Stale of New-York, paCVd Bi'n February. i JgoT
S C H E M E.
1 PRIZE of £-3°oo
2
3
10
3°
5 m
!?0
180
795°
834® Prizes. >
J66,54 Blanks, \ a S°°° T,ckcU ' « <*«• «<*-> £'S>*» '•
Sufcje£l to a dedufiion of Fifteen fer Cent.
THE object of this LOTTERY raise a part or the Lm
advanced by the corporation for repairing and ert'ar"rnj th-CI
TY HALL, for the accommodation of CON'GRESS, which
so much honor to the Architect, as well as credit *o the city. The
managers presume that their fellow Citizens will checrfu,'.v<;, ll; _
cur in promoting the fjle of Tickets, especially as the fucccfs of
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax-', which must othewife
be laid to reimburfethe corporation.
1 he above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very beneficial
to adventurers,there not being two blanks to a prize.
The Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the First
Monday in August next, or sooner if filled, of which timely
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers will be pah
lilbed at the expiration of the drawing.
Tickets arc to be fold by the fubferibers, who arc appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
I< <AC STOU T ENBV RGH, ARRAIIAM HIR RIN
Piter T. CURTIMOS, John Pintard.
Nexv-York, 6^^4^4,1750.
By Order of lie HnortiU Richard Uorru, Efa. Chief }u/l,u ot It,
State of New-York.
VJ-OTirE is Hereby givcato Lewis MDomM, of Conneaitr:,
u3n a ? . ■ l ? that upon appli ation and Hoc t> roof mad ?
to the laic chief justice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'DiKald.
pursuant to 3" ast of the Lrgiflamrr of the said State, entitled.
An ael tor relef absconding and abfen' debtors." pat
~ ' L hr ? , Aprl1 ' 17861 h e. the said chief juUice, ha. direftcd
all the said Lewis M'Donaldj estate, within th s ftatr, to h feit
ed. and that upjefi he lhall difchirge his debts within t Ive
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will bt wkl
for the payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d May, 1 -co.
Am-York, May 7, <79 q, (tw.iy.)
4DVERTISEMEN 7.
r>Y order of the honorable John Slofs Hobart Esquire, oneor
XJ the Jufticcs of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State
of New-York. Notice is hereby given to Paul D.-yrell, now of
late of Long Island, Esquire, an abfeonding de't>t»r, and to all
others whom it may concern; that upon application and due
pi oof, rruide to the said Justice, pursuant to an ast of the lcgifl.i
ture, entitled "an ast for re!,ef agamft abfeonding and ableirt
debtors," p asTed the f-jurth day of April, , 7 86, by a creditor of
r- j » , Pa "' Dc y rcll - he the f " d Justice has direded ail hi. the
said Paul Deyrelt's Estate, real and-perfonal, wuhin this State, to
be seized ; and that unlrfs hefWl discharge his debts within three
months after the publication of this notice • all his Ellate real and
peifonal will be fold for the payment and fatisfaftion of his ere
rw S - .1 at the clty °' New-Vork, the day
of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand levin hundred
and ninety. March 3,. , _
James F. Sebor, and Co. j
Have removed from No. 59, to No. .87, Water-Street, newiWl
\iruc Fly-Market,
WHERE they ncgociate all kinds ofPUBLICK
SECURITIES-BILLS OF EXCHANGE. See. asufol-
A czv-ior* t April 8, 1790. »tf.
Tlie Mail Diligence,
LFOR PHILADELPHIA
EAVES the Ferry-Stairs, * New-York, Ten minutes l&tt
k>ght o clock every morning except Sunday.
Sl-tgcOfiirr, City Ttrern, > ; *
H>oai-W*y, Kcxu-Yo>k June 5, 1790. {
Q ASH and a generous price given for Conti
nental N'ew-HampfWe, Maffachufetis, and Rhode-Island
lecuritics, of every denomination, by
v EBENEZER THAYER, jun. No. 59, Wn!;rStrrrt
New-Yoik, April J7 , ,790. J 09 '
§ CONTINENTAL
C AND
§ STATE SECURITIES, v
C BOUGHT AND SOLD,
AT NO. ig6. WATER-STREET.
C IP" A generous price will be given for Military Rights of Lai .
J and Jersey Paper Money. ' ° May 4, 1
t<9-i 1^1 1
IC7* A large imprejjion of this paper having
firuck off from the commencement of the second . <
Ipril 14. —Those who incline to become fubferi
from that period, may be jurnifhed with the nun
compleat.
Cl • !. AXTED No. 73 and 83 of this paper—Six tence each w'i
be pari for tAem by the Editor, « '
H E M E.
£.3000
£ >, v '
150?' I"
3W < \
ioco
500
aoo
100
50
so
10
4
&V
Sifc* J'