ti/l
—■— — n- .. —
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE ExdfiANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 31, if Vol. ll.j
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA. No. XVI.
Opposant, sans reliche, ai rc n op 4c prudence,
Lcs Cuius aux Ctndis, et la Fiance a (a France.
Toujours piite a j'unir avec f«s enncmis
Et cnangearit d'mteiet, de rivaux, et d'ainis.
THE rivalry, between thehoufesof Guise and
Montmorency, or in other words, the am
bition of the Cardinal de Lorrain, and the Duke
of Guise, to outstrip the Montmorency's, produ
ced a war. Charles the Vth. was preparing with
a numerousariny to lay siege to Metz. It was not
doubted that the conduct ot so important a war,
■would be committed to one of the two favorites.
But the Constable Montmorency, more than fixry
years ot age, preferred arelidence near the per
son of the King, to a rifqne of his reputation, in
new dangers. The Duke of Guife l , on the con
trary, full of courage, and burning with ardor to
<tiftinguifli himfelf, solicited the command, with
the more vivacity, as he law no other resource
than in military fuccefles, to efface the credit , and
cclipfe the glory of theConftable. Me was there
fore charged with the defence ot Met:', with
the consent, or at leait, without tile opposition
ofthe Constable, who, internally, was not dis
pleased to fee his competitor, expose his lite, or
his reputation to danger. The Duke fulfilled
perfetftly, the idea, whicii had been conceived
of his valor and prudence—uncertain as the suc
cess of the enterprise had been, he came out of
it victorious, and covered with glory. This great
atftion did him fomuch honor witll the King, and
the whole nation, that they committed to him,in
preference of all others, the command ot the ar
my, which they sent afterwards to Italy, to re
conquer the kingdom of Naples. Either by the
fault ofthe French, or the inconstancy of their
allies, this expedition failed, or, at !eaft produ
ced little advantage : Yet the ill success was not
imputed to the Duke, who drew from it more
glory than he could have done from a victory.—
for this reason : Philipthefecond Kingol Spain,
upon the abdication of his fcith-r, Charles thaVth.
turned his arms against the frontiers of France,
and entered through Flanders into Picardie, to
make a diversion si oin the war in Italy. Ihe
Conltable as Governor of that Province, was then
obliged to take leave of the King, and, aguinll:
his inclination, run the hazards ol war. rhelofs
of the battle of Sflint-Qnintin, where the Span
iards took him prisoner, l'pread a consternation
through all the neighbouring ptovinces. The
friends ofthe Guiles in council, conhl difoover
no surer means of repelling this invasion ot the
enemy, of repairing the lotl'es, and preventing
the conferences of this defeat, than by recalling
Italy the Duke of Guise. The celerity of
his return, added to the memorable conquetts of
Calais, Guifne, and Thionville.fullyju (lifted these
hopes, and gave him that superiority over the
Conltable, that a Conqueror inuft ever have over
one who is conquered.
TheConftable, however, obtained his liberty,
and returned to court. The King s ailetftion for
him was not abated. Henry, attributing hislate
misfortunes to the lot of arms, and the fortune
of war, conversed familiarly with him, and, still
convinced of his capacity, confided to him the
weight of public affairs. In the critical circuin
ftaiices ofthe Snre, the Duke and the Cardinal,
who had acquired a great reputation, the one by
his exploits, and the other by his abilities, appre
hended that if they could not throw l'ome power
ful obftaclein the way ofthe Conltable, he would
rife higher in favor than ever. They resolved
therefore to gain to their parly, Diana, Dutchefs
<5f Valentinois—to connect their interelts with
hers —and to make her protection and favor (erve
as a foundation of theirelevation. And who was
*li«na ? Of illuftvious birth, defrended from the
ancient liuufe of the Counts of Poitiers, in the
flower of her age, ihe united with uncommon
beauty, a sprightly wit, an acute and fubne un
derltanding, the molt infinuatinggraces of behav
ior, and all the other qualities which in a young
woman, enchant the eyes and captive the heart.
She had married the Senechal of Normandy, who
soon left her a widow, with two daughters. She
took advantage of her lingle state to deliver her
fejf up to the pleafurei and amusements ofthe
Court. Her charms gained the heart of the King,
whom <he governed with an absolute empire. But
ib.e behaved with so much arrogance, and appro
priated to herfelf the riches of the crown, with
i.'« much avidity, that Ihe made herfelf odious and
infjppurrabJe to the whole kingd otn. The Qurcn,
WEDNESDAY, JULT 28, 1790.
full of indignation, to h'ave-a rival so powerful,
behaved towards her 'with, aif exterior decency,
but in her heart bore her an implacable hatred.
The nobility, whom ftie had ill treated in the
persons of feverstl gentlemen, could not with pa
tience, fee themselves trampled under foot by the
pride of a woman—and the people detested her
avarice—to which they imputed <he rigorous im
posts, with which they were loaded.
The Guises, without regard to the general dis
content—sensible only to thafo-jr of losing their
power, fought the friend/hip <5X the Dutchels,
vvho soon declared herfelf openly in their favor,
and by marryingone of her daughters to the Duke
ot Aumale their brother, fupportedthem with all
her credit. The Constable eaflly unravelled the
irttrlgues of the Guises, and, not depending on
the marks-os confidence which he received from
the King, thought to fortify himfelf, equally, with
the prote&iou of Diana. If the Guises had flat
tered her, by the splendor of their birth, he did
not difpair to gain her to hi* int«reft, by satiating \
heravarice,apaffion as ungovernable in her heart,
as ambition. He begun to make his court to her,
and endeavored to gain her by considerable pre
sents. He had lb much at heart the success of
his measures, that in fpiteof hisratural pride, he
did nothefitate to feekalfoher alliance by espou
sing to Henry Lord of Damville, his second son,
Antoinette de la Mark, grand daughter by the
mother, of the Dutchefs of Valsntinois—a reso
lution so much the more imprudeht, 3s Diana was
already ftricftly united with the party of the Gui
ses, andlabor'd sincerely, with all herpower, for
their aggrandizement—whereas she favored but
coldly the designs of the Constable. All the
me_iis which had been employed in opposition to
the elevation of the Guises, became useless. To
the merit of their services—to the intrigues by
which they had continually advanced tiiemfelves
—at the time, when they disputed with so much
vivacity, with their rivals, for the firft rank at the
Court, was added, the marriage ot' Francis, the
Dauphin of France, and the elded son of the King,
with the Princess Mary, sole heir of the kingdom
of Scotland, daughter of James Stuart, lately de
ceased, by Mary of Lorrain, lifter of the Duke
and Cardinal. All alliance of so much magnifi
cence, drew them near to the throne. There re
mained now, to the Constable and his family,
only the friendly sentiments, which the King
preserved for them by habit; and to the other
courtiers, only the offices of linaller importance.
The principal dignities, thefaireft governments,
and the general fuperintendance of affairs, civil
and military, all were placed in the hands of ths
Guises and their creatures.
(To be continued.)
TRANSLATED
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
PARIS.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE COLONIES,
Prefenttd to the National AJfemHy, in the name of
the Committee appointed Jor that purpose, the 234
March, 1790.
By Mr. Barnave, Depaty from Danphiny.
ADMITTING the ideas that have been detail
ed, and that the colonies are in a state of
tranquility, well administered, . and delivered
from oppression, one thing ftilj r*mains wanting.
They offer themselves to every body, by their
riches, as an objeA of an adfive ambition, but
want the population, and cannot procure within
themselves the maritime and military forces ne
ceflary for their defence.
It is necessary then, that being united and
identified with a great power, they may find by
the disposition of its strength, the security of the
bleflings acquired by means of a good conftituti
on, and good interior laws. _ ,
It is neceflary that this power, interested 111
their preservation, by the advantages gained in
its tranfa<ff ions with them, should coniider it a
duty to fhovv the molt constant equity towards
them, that it fhou)d always present a fufficient
orce for their protection, and that by its iwduf
-1 ry: its prodiuSions and capital, it may be polled
ed of every means neceflary to fonn the most ad
vantageous commercial connexions.
Here then is the whole of what is neceflary
for the poiirical existence of the colonies, by fe
coring the prcfcrvat o;i of every interior advan
ce ; V ts what tluife (he kl Ha e pointed out
537
CONTINUED
10 them, who inspired them with a vvilh for a
good constitution.
Were there persons thoughtless enough to
dare to invite them to a Separate political cxif-
to an abfolnte independence, we would
a!k theni, laying aside faith, engagements, ajid
every thing which great nations can employ to
cnforce them ; we would ask them, what is then
the secret oftheir hopes ? Where are their forc
es to protect them ? Would they take men from
cultivation to make sailors and soldiers of them ?
would they oppose them with any hopes against
thefirft: powers in the world - ?
But, they will fay, we will procure for onr
felves alliances anei guarantees. And do you
think tliey will be disinterested ? Though they
may be for a while, do you think they would be
so long ! Da you not lee that every protection
would be the commencement of a new arbitrary
government over you ? We, with whom you are
connected by so many duties and so many ties,
can we not fay to you, forgetting every thing el fe
except your interelts, behold our principles, re
gard our laws ; choose whether you will be the
tree citizens of a free nation, or whether you
will soon become the IHves of those who should
now offer themselves as yourallies.
And altho they iheuld flatter themselves, that
a dominion eftablilhed on such foundations, may
preserve for some time an appearance of jultice,
we would ltili alk them, where is the nation that
can promise our colonies, more loyalty, wore
fraternal regard, than we now teftify towards
them
Where is the nation that can display for their
protection, greater or more solid ftrengtli than
what we aredifpofed to do, after the crilis of our
regeneration !
Where is the nation to whom nature has given
greater means to carry on commerce with them ?
Which can produce and prepare within itfelf,
more materials fit for their confutnption ? Which
can make a greater ofe of thrirs-#- Whidr jjoitttt
es in fine, beyond us, every thing that can lead to
that point, wherein a mutual exchange is attend
ed with the greatest possible advantages.
They have not, it is true, hitherto drawn in
their fulleft extent, the advantages which these
different considerations give reason to expert ;
but to what other cause was this owing, than the
abuses which we have destroyed ?
The administration of their government was
oppressive ? The answer is in our revolution,
the answer is in the decrees and the inftru<ftions
which we fend to the colonies.
Our naval force has never attained the degree
of preponderance which the extent otour means
and our geographical position assigned it. But
what more than us, had those to boast of, who
with fewer men and lefsriches, have maintained
themselves in the firft rankamongmaritimepow
ers ? They had a constitution—they were free.
In short, the iituation of our commerce did not
present all the superiority of advantages which
the whole of our resources warrant, as soon as
they shall be developed.
But are they ignorant, that hitherto the geni
us of the French nation has alone struggled against
all these initiations, all thele (hackles, all these
prejudices !
Are they ignorant that an unaccountable opi
nion, ranked almost every other profeHion above
commerce, agriculture and produtflive industry,
and thus destroyed in a nation, fond of refped:
and glory, the gem which gives birth to every
kind of perfe&ion ?
Are they ignorant, that people hitherto with
us, betook thenifelves to commerce, in hopes of
soon enriching thenifelves, and that they quit it
asfoonastliey had acquired fufficient fortune t»
prosecute it on such an extensive scale, as would
be like advantageous to thenifelves and those
with whom they tranfa<fted bulinefs.
Are they ignorant that the capitals, which
ought to have promoted ufeful industry, were
ablorbed by a borrowing government, and the
crowd of itockjobbers with which it was sur
rounded !
Are they ignorant that the profits which this
government was obliged to offer in return for the
want of confidence, and thofc of the infamous
traffic which was supported by its profulions,
kept up in France the iatereft ofmoney toaprice
that was alone fufficient to restrain below medi-
ocrity, all the branches of ourinduftry, and to
change every proportion of our competition with
othver people ?
[Whole NO. IJJ.]Such are the ahufes which we have never ceaf
ed to attack, and which we are daily engaged
in destroying. Every day approaches us to the
period, when freed from the fetters which have
hitherto restrained our powers, we (hall at length
take among nations, the station that was alligned
ns. Then our liberty, our power, our fortune,
will become the patrimony of all thofc who have
shared our deftiwy ; then, our profperiry will
extend to all those who lhall contrast with us.
i he National Allembly is unacquainted with the
language and the ihifts of political artifice ; it is
ignorant of, and moreover despises the means, ol
captivating the p»ople by any other ways than
byjultice. Reciprocal attachment, mutual ad
vantages and unalterable fidelity ; these, people
of the colonies, thele are what it promises and
what it demands from yon. The Krench nation
experienced a long time (ince what it may expe<ft
from you : we demand no other sentiments from
you ; we rely on them with certainty, and we
wi(h that they were daily more merited and
more juftified on our part : we recommend to you
at this moment a profound tranquility, a Uriel
union between yourselves, the n;noft celerity in
the labors which are to prepare your new exis
tence. These counsels are ellential to your hap.
pinels ; ihey are ellential to your fafety. Show
not among you the example of divilion, of a con
tagious fermentation. You want peace more
than others, and you arc no longer obliged to
agitate yourselves to obtain by coaqueft, what
the National Aflembly has resolved to propose to
you, from the firll moment you became the ob
jeifl ofits deliberations.
It is now going to arrange in a series of articles,
a Sketch of the molt eflential initrudtions which
it fends to you. (To be continued.)
NEW-YORK, JULY 28.
Papers by the Brig RacbeilCapt. Duff, who arrived
here in 44 days frtm Limerick, have accounts to
June 7
VIENNA, May 2
We learn from Orfova, that on the 20th of last
month the magazine at Orfova, containing 1 500
quintals of powder, blew up, by which 28 per
fonswere killed, and 59 woimded.
The Artillery found in Orfova amounted to
150 pieces of cannon, and 18 mortars; on that
fide whei e the aflault was to be made there was a
masked battery of 50 guns.
The Turks in the neighbourhood of Viddin,
are twenty thousand strong and the grnrid Vi
zier's army is arteinbling between JNiiiia and
Advianople.
T>T~A 17 R I D, April 26.
A great change has been made in the admini
stration of Spain—but the Prime Miuifter is yet
iii power
BERLIN, May 8.
Since the arrival of a courier from Vienna,
and tiie vific paid to the King at l'otfdam, by the
Aultrian Ambaflhdor, in company with the Comte
fie Finckenftein, Minister of State, the report of
peace has circulated again.
LONDON, May 31.
By an express received yesterday at Carleton
houie, we learn, and we announce the pleasing
intelligence to the public with great fatisfacftion,
that on Friday morning the Dntchefs of Devon
ihire, was fafely delivered at Paris of a son and
heir to that ill nftricus houle.
The letters from Spain, though not of so war
like a tendency as by the former mails, leave us
no room to doubt of the intentions of the Court
of Madri d. Taking every cirt nm Itance in to con
sideration, there appears a deep laid fyftcm of
offenfive operations between that Court and the
aristocracy in France.
The spirit of liberty has spread quite to the foot
of Mount Etna, the peasants of Sicily seriously
threaten the Barons to throw oft" their yoke, and
the latter have offered the King a million to co»»
ftrurft another ship in the room of thcßoger, which
■was burnt by all incendiary of 'he inob, in cale
Jie will protedl thein agaiult the peasantry, and
preserve their privileges.
Wiien the last letters camc from Cadiz,the Spa
jiiards had a fleet of 24 fail of the line, and
gates, nearly ready to put to sea. They were
arming with the utmost dispatch in every quarter.
Letters received in town lalt night affirm, that
Portugal is arming in all its ports with an unfual
spirit of warlike preparations.
A violent earthquake has again done confidera
ble damage at Medina, and has also destroyed
whole provinces adjacent, leaving a large volca
no open
Letters jufl received from Madrid advise, that
. total change has taken place in the Spanilh Mi
liftry, on tlie 25th of May last.
By ageiuleman who came over from Diepp# to
irighthelmllone on Saturday the Bth of May, we
jnderftand that the pucketj was chafed for seve
ral hours by aSpanifii frigate, nor was the pur
suit given over till an English man,of war appear
ed in fight, who having thus given protection,
rewarded herfclf by (tripping her of all her hands
: No answer has yet been received from the
Co rr: of Spain.
Wh£n our last accounts came from Vienna, the
Ministers from Prussia and Poland were packing
up, and paying their bills, being in daily expect
ation of letters of recal.
The ADDRESS of the Providence Associati
on «/Mechanics and Manufacturers,^ the
PRESIDENT of the United States of America. »
SIR,
THE tlappy period has at length arrived, when we can with
propriety join our fellow-citizens oi the other ilates in con
gratulating you, as chief Magistrate ot Un ted Arrcrica. Al
though the progress ot this ftatt to our prelim situation has been
flow and timid, it is some consolation, that our acccdion has com
pleted the Federal Union.
PJeafcd with the eilablifiiwient of a firm government, we are
happy in thus having it iryojir power to cxprefs our sentiments of
repaid and attachment to the President of the Union, de
termination, as far as in us lies, to support the conllitution aqd
laws of the United States.
The Mechanics and Manufacturers of th?s town feel a confi
dence in the wisdom and patriotism of the Legislature of the Un
ited States, —that they will do all in their power to promote the
manufa&ures, as well as the agriculture and commerce ot our
country ; tnis confidence is greatly ftrcngthened by the considera
tion that you, Sir, are at the head of it.
In full txpe£lation that, under a mild and beneficcnt admini
stration of the governmtnt, we shall be enabled to lead quiet and
peaceablc lives, and cnipy the fruits of our honest ;nduftry ; with
grateful hearts for pa'A, favours, we join the millions ot America,
in fervent prayers tytlie difpoier of all events, for your health ana
happiness ; and that your important lite may long be spared, to
rule a free, virtuous and happy Nation.
Providence, June 4, 179 c.
Signed by Ofdc t and in behalf of the AlTociation,
CHARLTJS KEENE, President,
Attcft, Bennet Wheeler, Sec'ry.
THE PRESIDENT'S ANSWER.
To the Jtjfociation of Mechanics and Manufac
turers of Providence.
Gentlemen,
THE acceflio a of the State of Rh»de-I(land to the General
Government, which has again completed our Union, if, indeed,
an even; that aflfordsme lingular fatitlaftion. For yourfavouiable
fentimrnts refpeftin 0 > myfelf, as well as for your determination to
fuppurt the cooftitutioa and laws of the United States,! return
you mv thanks.
In lull expectation that your confidence in the wisdom and pa
triotism of the national Legiflaluie will not be difappe intcd ; and
that they will do all in their power to promote the Mauuta&urcs,
Agriculture and Commerce of tin Countty ; 1 aiTute you, gen
tlemen, I fha!l always heartily coiuur in all furh judicious mea
furcs as may leem calculated to enable the good people of United
Amerita to lead quiet and peaceable lives, m the enjoyment of the
fruits of their honett induilry.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
THE TABLET. No. CXXXV.
" Knowledge is valuable in proportion as it affords
light in managing our pfaClical duties or employ
ments."
IT is to be regreted that men of ingenuity do
not turn more of" their attention to works of
utility. Many »f the performances that are of
fered to public view, thougli they may discover
some traces of genius in the writer, yield little
or no advantage to the reader. Subje«fis may
either be too abftrart to be underltood, or they
may be too uninterelting to be regarded. To
render a publication ufeful to any large number
of people, it fliould have a reference to points
which are to be carried into practice. It is of
vast importance that men should hnve a just way
of thinking relative to every objetfi, that in any
degree influences their conduct. I have made
tliefe o"bfervations merely to introduce a letter,
I am favored with, from a friend at Boston.—»•
My correspondent is one of those persons who is
liberal in encouraging all attempts to promote
literature ; and it is his greatcll wish to recom
mend such performances as are calculated to
make men better and happier, and to remove
popular errors or prejudices, which owe their ex
igence, more to the inattention than to the inca
pacity of mankind. His remarks on a late pub
lication areas follows.
" I have read with great pleasure and atten
tion, a volume of eflays lately offered to the
public by our mutual friend Mr. SV. IVebfter.
Though I have not leisure to enter into a re
view of that work, I am too much pleased with
the performance, to pass it over without a tew
comments. Mr. IVebJler has felefted such fubjetfts
for ciifculfion, as are not only capable of being
made obvious intelligible ; but such as are
important enough to deserve attention, and may
afford ufeful hints and to every class
of readers. I admire his remarks upon practical
politics : They areoften new, andfeldom failof
bei.Bg pertinent. He frequently ilhiftrates his
fuSjeifl by a judicious application of facts ; and
more generally deduces his principles by way of
inference, than sets out with a favorite system,
that requires a departure from reason and com
mon sense to support. In short he {eems more
solicitous to investigate truth, than to establish
specious hypotheses. There is a force and sim
plicity in his stile, that renders it peculiarly a
dapted to political difcufiion. Though he always
thinks boldly, and speaks freely, his observations
are never 1 >ofe and unconnected, and his lan
guage is remarkably chaste, expreflive and unas
«ec(ed. His composition in point of vijror and
classical propiiety cannot well be exceeded."
Thus my correfpondfent ipeaksof Mr. Wdfler'%
publication. Icould wifli some person would fur
nifh a complete review of the work, as I am per
suaded it will be approved in proportion as it is
brought to the test of criticism.
538
Charleston, July 3.
THE following is a copy of a letter from His
Excellency the Governor of the State of Georgia,
to Alexander M'Giliivray, Esq. chief of the Creek
Nation, with Mr. M'Giliivray's answer thereto.
State- Hoafe, AttgujL., Jan, 8, 179'..
SIR,
THE favorable reprefeutations I liave had of
your disposition to fupprei's violence and
restore peace and confidence between the people
ofGeorgia, and the Creek Indians, have induced
me to open a correspondence with you, not with
a deiign to enter into the merit or demerit of
pad tranfatftionsi farther than the restoration of
property belonging to the people of this State—
something of this nature I trull will be agreed
to, and complied with, as far as the nature of the
cafe will by any means admit—and also that every .
lpecies of future depredation be withheld. If a
condutffc of this nature, and more particularly a
ftritft observance of peace and good order in fu
ture, be fully ratified and duly observed, it will
give the government of this State an operation to
put in pra<flice the wish and desire of the greav
body of the people thereof, I mean a return of
mutual confidence.
Froui our situation as neighbors we ought to
be rendering mutual services to each other; your
traders and meflengers, would have free egress
and ingress, and security would be th* lot of all.
Humanity will readily dictate the propriety
of liberating and fending forward the citizens
and other persons belonging to this State now in
the Creek nation.
I trust that your good undeiftanding will rea
dily suggest the necellity of my being enabled to
give afl'urances to the frontier settlers of a full
security of person and property —this too being
guaranteed ill the name of the nation, will de
termine me in making such arrangements, as well
as reprefentatiensto the President of the Unired
States as may have ate: lency to prevent the fu
ture of human blood.
I am, Sir, your 1110 ft humble servant,
EDWARD TELFAIR.
A '-zander M'Gillivray, Esq. ?
Chief of the Creek hatio'i. 5
Little Tallassee, March 30, 179 c,
SIR,
I RECEIVED your letter of tlie Bth January
last, by Afli ; he being unable to return on
account of the extraordinary floods, I fend this
to general Pickens to forward.
In answer to your's I have to observe, that,
as a peace was not concluded on between us at
the Rock Landing meeting, your demand for
property taken by our warriors from off the de
puted lands, cannot be admitted. Wc also have
had our loflesby captures made by your people.
We are willing to conclude a peace with you,
but you must not expedl extraordinary concefli
ons from us. In order to spare the further effulion
of human blood, and to "finally determine the
war, I am willing to concede in some meafnre,if
you are disposed to treat on tke ground of mutu
al conceflion.
It will save trouble and expence if the nego
ciations are managed in the nation. Any per
son from yon can be afliired of personal fafety
and friendly treatment in this country.
I am, Sir, ycrur most obedient fervanr,
ALEX. M'GILLIVRAY.
His Excellency Edward Telfair, Esq. ,
BOSTON, JULY 21.
Lad week at Pownalborough, in the County of
Lincoln, before the Supreme judicial Court,
came on the trial of Samuel Hadiock, of Mount-
Desert, for the murder of Eliab Littlefield
Gott, a young man of about 22 years of age ;
and after atrial, which laftedthe whole day, the
Jury returned their Verdi<ft, that the prisoner
was Guilty.—ln the course of the trial, it appear
ed that Hadiock previous to his committing the
horrid murder, had worked himfelf up into a vi
olent pallion with his neighbours, on account, as
he said, of their propagating some ftorics to hi*
disadvantage ; the firtt effetfi of which discovered
itfelf at the house of one Manchejler, where, after
some abusive language he seized Mrs. Manchejler
by the hair of her head, pulled her out ofdoors,
and threw her on the ground several times, in a
great rage—he then left the house, andinafliort
time after called to the deceased, who at thi.
time was parting by, in a boat, and requested to
be set across the river in lire boat. With this
friendly design Gott went on shore, Hadiock in
quired where he was going with his boat I Gott
answered, to an island after sand. Hadiock tolci
him he had no right there, as he himfelf had a
lease of the island. Gott replied that he did not
know it. Upon this, Hadiock fattened the boat
and plunged Gott three times under the water,
holding him down some time—he then with a
large club drove the young man and a boy that
was with him up to Manchep»r , % house, where he
found one Richardjon, who had been called to the
aid of this riiftrefled family—he immediately sei
zed Richard/on by the collar, thrust him out 01
doors with g'"eat violence, who taking advantage
ofa fence, jumped over, pulled Hadiock agauif*.the Fence, and held^iim—at this instant Mr. Gott
came out, Hadlock caught hold of his hair and
held his head hard down «n his own breast, he
vial relieved be Mrs. Manchefler —Richard/on now
permitted Hadlock to rife, on his solemn promises
that he would behave decently, and not offer
further abuse to the company ; no sooner was he
at liberty, than he snatched up an hedge-stake
and pursued the young men, but not being able
to come up with Richard/on, he pursued Gott,
whose clothes were wet, and boot's filled with
water, soon came up with him, and knocked him
down ; the young man then begged him to
spare his life, and that God would have mercy
on hiin ! Hadlock told him to pray quick, for it
Jhould bt the last time ; repeating his blows which
fractured his Ikull in several places. The wit
nefles tettified that they left them in this lituati
on, not daring to return until the next morning,
when jtlrey found Mr. Gott both senseless and
speechless in Manchefler's house, which had been
deserted over night by the family. Mr. Gott
Survived but a few hours. Thus fell an innocent
young man, a vi<stim to the ungoverned pallions
•of[an unprovoked neighbour, probably too much
inflamed with fti ong drink. Let such as indulge
this vice take warning by Hadlock's unhappy si
tuation, especially when they are reminded that
the law considers intoxication as an aggravation,
rather than an excuse for a crime.
NEW-LONDON, July 21.
On Sunday nth of July 1790, afmall two mast
boat off Sheldon's shoals, up Connecticut river,
about 16 miles, upfett, on board of which were
two men, who were very fortunately drowned as
the boat funk, since which the boat and two men
were taken up. It appears that James Harker,
of New-York, is one, supposed to he the man that
married a wife in New-London, and moved to
New-York ; there were found on board amongst
the ballad, it or 12 large keys fitted for liore
locks of different kinds.
SALEM, JULY 20.
About 2 o'clocklaft Sunday morning, the dwclling-houfe of
Air. William Mansfield, of Lynnficld, was severely (hocked by
Jightning ; which llruck the top of the chimney, and took off the
south part to the roof, and (hook the whole t® such a degree as to
unite Ax smokes into one—tore up the h arth—than entered a
hrge deeper which led to another in the middle of the roorti, and
tore the floor all up as it went ; from thence took, us course to
anothef part of the house, and went out under a bed at the corner,
in which were two persons, who received no injury, aitho the
bed was much damaged, thr cord broken into a number of pieces,
and the bed-clothes considerably burnt ; as it went out of tVu
house, it tore away the boards, and in that part much damaged
the frame ; thencc proceeded to a chaife-houlc, fevcral rods from
ihc dwelling-house, and fct forae tow on fire, wlrich must have
ronfuined that, with all the adjacent buildings, had not the fire
kern immediately extinguished by one of the family, who in the
alarm had run out of doors TJ»e liglniv-g;, in irr thro
the house, entirely demoliflied two large windows, broke the
falh.es, and melted the glass, besides (lightly damaging two or
three other windows atihe opposite part of the house ; it over
turned the furniture, unhinged the doors, and almost entirely do
ftroyed al' the brittle ware in the house.—There were 15 prrfons
lodged in different parts of the house; but, protected by a divine
Providence, not one ot them received the lead injury.
Never did the face of the earth exhibit a mote 'promising ap
peaiaocc than at the prefrnt season. Such burdens of grass have
Jcldom been known, as are now cut. English grain is uncom
monly filled our, and, if no unforcfeen accident happens, will
yield a rich harvefl. Indian corn is very flourifliing ; and the.
fruit-trees of all kinds are richly laden.—How happy the Situa
tion ofan American farmer ! Proprietor of the foil he cultivates,
44 he acknowledges no landlord but the Lord of all laud;" and
it may truly be said, that " God hath given him of the dew of
heaven, and of tha fatnefs of the earth, and plenty ot corn and
winr "
This day publijhcd,
And to be fold by THOMAS ALLEN, Queen-Sireet, corner of
Flv-Market,
A COLLECTION OF
ESSAYS AND FUGITIVE WRITINGS,
On various fubjefts.
By Noah Webster, Jfun.
[Philadelphia, JUI Y 1790.]
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISH INC A NfcWSPAPIR,
To he entitled
THE DAILY ADVERTISER,
AND
POLITICAL, COMMERCIAL, AGRICULTURAL AND
LITERARY JOURNAL,
Bv Benjamin Franxlin Sachs.
jJ3r THIS paper is intended, as a channel for every Ipccies of
inlormation, capable ot affording benefit or rational entertain
ment to me public.
advertisement.
PURSUANT to a Jlcfolve or ast of Congress of the 10th day
of May, 1780, rUative to the deftruftion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; noticc is hereby given to all whom it tnay
concern, that on the dav of January 1780, the houl'e occupied
by the fubknber in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took tire and
was confumcd, in which-was lodged a number of Loan-OtSce
certificates aJ pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the said
fire : Tbtrefnre if any person, hath any obieaion why tlte fatd
Certificates fhoulrf ntot be renewed, agreeable to the relolves of
Congrcfi, tbey roust make them before the expiration of three
months, from tlir date hereof. , ,
Invoice oJLcan-Dffue Ceitijicalei iffirtyei m thehouje of Jonn Holier
on Ike id day cj January \-00.
XJ>ols.
SamiwlCooke, jun. New-York, too
ditto. dc. 600
on tni h
No.
1636 1
«()73 1
1778.
March 13.
In tcftirtony wlicrsof I h«vc fignfd the ;P üb "
iTction. HOLKLR.
■Nc9*>York % July s6tA t i7QQ«
QT ir i.VTED AV. 73 ana 83 cj this} iter—Sixpemt uch ml
bt pwdjor i'.tm b'j l\t editor.
A MESSAGE was received from the senate, in
forming that they had receded from their a
mendments to the bill for fettling the accounts of
the United States and the individual States, which
had been dil'agreed to by the house. The bill
of course has pafled the two hollies.
Mr. Stone, reported on a petition offbme mer
chants of Annapolis, allowing a remiflion of the
duty on a quantity of falc that they had 101 l :
A bill was then ordered to be brought in for the
purpose.
The house then prgtfeeded farther in the con
sideration of theqtteftion of afluinption.
Mr. Jackson's being under considera
tion—aster much debat£, the question for rejedl
ing the propoiition was taken and' negatived.—
A V T?£?
Meffis. A/he, Baldwin, BJoodworth, Brown,
Coles, Con tee, Floyd, Griffin, Gilman, Hartley,
Hathorn, Heifler, Jackson, Liverinore, Madifofi,
Mathews, Moore, H. Muhlenberg, Page, Parker,
Van Renfellaer, Scot, Scney, Sevier, Smith, (M.)
Steele, Stone, Sumpter, Williamfon. 29.
Mtflrs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, Burke, Cad
wallader, Carroll, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Foster,
Gale, Gerry, Goodhue* Grout, Huntington, Law.
ranee, Lee, Leonard, partridge, Schureman,
Sedgwick, Sherman, Silvester, Sinnickfon, Smith
(S. C.) Sturges, Thatcher, Trumbull, Tucker,
Vming, Wadfworth, White, Wynkoop. 3a
Several motions were then made to amend the
proposition, none of whijeh were agreed to The
house then adjourned.
The amendment of the Senate to the Funding
Bill, which provides for the Allumption of the
State Debts, was further difcufled this day—and
after its being modified so as to agree with the
principles on which the other part of the debt of
the United States is to be funded, the amendment
w:is adopi :d by the house—Ayes 34 —Noes 28.—
The Ayes and follow—-
Messrs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, Burke, Cadwal
lader, Clyiner, Carroll, Fitzfimons, Fpfter, Gale,
Gerry, Goodhue, Grout, Huntington, Huger,
Lawrance, Lee, Leonard, Partridge, Schureman,
Sedgwick, Sherman, Silvelter, Sinnickfon Smith,
(S. C.) Sturges, Sumpter, Thatcher, Trumbull,
Tucker, Vining, Wadfworth, White, Wynkoop.
Messrs Alhe, Baldwin, Blood worth, Brown,
Coles, Contee, Floyd, Giltnan, Griffin, Hartley,
Hathorne, Heifter, Jackson, Livermore, Madison,
Mathews, Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Page, Parker,
Renfellaer, Scot, Sevier,Seney, Smith,(M.)Steele,
Stone, Williamfon.
A message was received from the Senate,inform
ing the House that they infill on their firft amend
ment to the Poft-Office bill. By which the bill
is loft
Mr. Blood worth, gave notice to the house that
he would to-morrow move for a suspension of
part of thebill refpetfling the temporary residence
ofCongrefs. Adjourned.
Mr. Sedgwick moved for leave to bring in a bill, to continue
in force the present Poft-Office law, and some other a£h.
Mr. Gilman ol the joint committee, reported two resolutions,
which had been enrolled, examined and tound correct—One re
fpe&ing the pav of the Clerks inthe Office of the Commiflioner of
Army Accounts, the other provision for defraying the ex
pences of Seals for the Supreme aria Circuit Courts —The Speaker
then figncd the fame.
A report of the Secretary at W»r, on the petition of Sarah Ster
ling, widow of the late Major Gen. Lord Sterling—was read.
Mr. Sturges,of the committee to which was referred the memo
rial of Scth Harding—brought in a report in favor of the memori
alist. To which two resolutions were added, that the memori
aliit Aiould receive commutation of half pay, and a bounty in
lands—also, three months pay while serving on board the Alli
ance, at the rate of 60 dollars pr. month.
A bill for the relief of John Stuart and John Davidfon, of An
napolis, to exonerate them from paying the duties on a quantity
ot Salt, was read the second time, and ordered to be engrofled.
The second report on the petition of Francis Mentgcs, was tak
en into confederation —which was that he be allowed his extra
expenccs) and that the Auditor of the Treasury fettle his account
accordingly—this report was agreed to: >
The confidcration of. the new Coasting bill was referred to the
next feflion.
The report of the comfnittee to which was recommitted the re
port otf the memorial of Thomas Barclay, was taken up agreed
to, and a bill ordered to be reported.
The bill for the relief of disabled soldiers and feafnen, was or
dered to be engrofled for a third reading.
The report on Capt. memoi ial, was read the second
time—the latter part refpefting the three months pay, was agreed
to—the other part it was ordered ihould lie on the table.
This report w?s supported by feverat gentlemen, who stated
many particulars of the ferviccs and fuffcrings of the meinorialift.
Adjourned.
Dollars, liioo.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
SATURDAY, JULY 24,
AYES.
NOES.
MONDAY, JULY 26
AY ES.
NOES
TUESDAY, JULY 27.
539
LAW OF THE UNITED STATES*
CONGft£SS :
AT THE Sf.COND SESSION.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fouith
of January* one thouTrnd seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT to amend the Adl for the eltabliihment
and support of Beacons, Buojs,
and public Piers.
BE it enadedL by the Senate and Bouse of Representatives of the United
States oj America in Congref ajjembied, That all cxpences which
(hall accrue from and after the fifteenth day of August next, for
the neceflary support, maintenance and repairs of ali light-hou'.es,
beacons, buoys, and public piers within the United State?, iliall
Continue to be defrayed by the United States, until the firft day of
July, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, notwithstand
ing such light-houses, beacons, buoys, and public piers, with the
lands and tenements, thereunto belonging, and the jurifdiftions
of the fame, shall not in the mean time be ceded to or vested m
the United States, by the State or States refpe&ively, in which the
fame may be, and that the said time be further allowed to the
States refpedlively to make fucf. ceflions.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House oj Reprefentativer.
JOHN ADAMS, Vtce-Prefiderit oj the United States.
and President of the Senate.
Approved, July the twenty second, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
NEW-YORK, JULY 28.
Yesterday the military corps of this city in uni
form, were reviewed on Col. Rutgers'gro und, by
The President of the United States, the Hon.
Gen. Knox, the Kings t Headmen, and Warriors
of the Creek nation,HisExcellenry the Command'
erin Cliiefofthe militia, and other military per
sonages of dißin<ftion» The troops acquitted
themselves in a manner highly honorary to their
commanders, and to their own military charatfter.
The President was pleased to express his approba
tion of heir soldierly appearance and deportment,
and the applaufeofthe lpe<ftators was unreserved*
ly bellowed.
If the peace and tranquility of the United
States depended on the allumption of the Sate
debts. If the operations of the general govern
ment were liable to insuperable difficulties in cafe
of non-aflumption,and if distributive ahdimparti*
aljuftice was absolutely suspended on the affirm
ative of this question. The facrifices of public
time and treasure, occasioned by endeavours to
furmountand obviate the objections to this mea
sure, are but as a drop to the ocean, compared to
the solid, substantial, injuring and encreafuig ad
vantages derived to the whole people from the
allumption. From this moment, the face of
public affairs aflumes a new, a vigorous, and ani
mated afpe<ft—unlimited confidence isreftoredin.
the Councils of the Union—and having one greac
objetf, the perfecting our whole finances—com
merce, arts and agriculture will receive a spring
hitherto unknown.
A correl'pondent observes, that the Affumptiort
of the State debts rivets the chain of Union—and
blackens with despair the enemies of our Nation
al Constitution.
By this, the monfler with thirteen heads re
ceives his death wound—and all the (lings of fac
tion are drawn—The State governments, while
protected by one Head in the participation of jus
tice, will sensibly realize the blessings which flow
from union-, the machinations of State demagogues
to divert the people from a steady pursuit of their
best interests will prove in vain.
Had the Members of this State voted againffc
the Assumption, and thus have defeated the mea
sure, it is pretty evident general inter*
efts would have been most essentially injured.—
Conjjeflicut and New-Je+fcy, the arms of our com
merce, while faddledwith taxes to pay their State
debts, mull have given up their commercial cha.
rafter, or forever remained ruinously in debt to
our merchants.—And what would have become
of the little State of Georgia, was her once pow
erful, wealthy neighbor to be cruflied beneath,
the weightof her enormout,,but meritorious debt?
Died, on the 25 inft. at his Scat near Elizabeth-
Town, his Excellency William Livingston Esq.
Governor ojtheState of New-Jersey.—A fiation which
he held with diftinguijhed honor to himfelf, andadvan
tage to the State from the firft year of the revolution.
In his death America sustains the loss of one of htr
mo ft distinguished patriots ; and the republic of let
ters a very brilliant ornament. Born and educated
in this country, his whole life was a con/I ant fucceffiort
of ferv'tces to promote its. lejl intereQs, and in every
public department he discharged his duty with great
bility, and the mofl confciencioux integrity. His ami~
able family, the State, and the public at large, have
to regret the removal of so much worth and Virtue
out of life.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Brig Mary, Neil, Newry.
Olive Branch, Ferris, St. Michales.
—* —Nancy, Barnard, Cape-Francois.
Schooner Nancy, Allen, ditto.
Sloop Nancy, Simefon, Charleston.
-■ - Beaufort, Suttin. ditto.
Gqold, Khode-Ifland.
PU HUSHED«
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES
PUBLISHED
CONGRESS of the united states
AT TKI SECOND SKSSION.
Uegun and held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fouith
January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT for the government and Regulation of
Seamen in the Merchants Service.
BE it enabled by the Senate and Houf: of Representatives of the Uni
ted States of America in Congreji ajjembledy That from and after
the fiiftdayor December next, e\\. / matter or commander of
any (hip or veflel bound from a port in the United States to any
foreign port, or of any Ihip or veil* I of the burthen of fifty to &
or upwards, bound from a port in one State to a port in any o*
therthan an adjoining State, (hall, before he proceed #n such,
voyage make an agreement in writing, or in print, with ever\
seaman or mariner on board such ship or veflel (except such as
(hall be apprentice or fervantto himfelf or owners) declaring the
voyage or voyages term orterms of time, tor which iuch seaman
or mariner (ball be (hipped. And if any matter or commander
of such ship or vessel (hall carry out any feanian or mariner
apprentices or servants as aForesaid) without such contraA
or ageement being firft made and signed by the featnen and mari
ners, such mafteror commander (hall pav to every such seaman or
mariner, the highest price or wages, which ihall have been given
•at the port or pi ace where such leamap or mariner (hall havr been
shipped for a similar voyage, within three months next beloi
the time of such (hipping ; Provided such seaman or mariner (hall
perform such voyage ; or if not, then for such time as he (hall
continue to do duty onboard such (hip or veflel, and (hall more
over forfeit twenty dollars for every such seaman or mariner,
one half to the use of the uerfon prosecuting for the fame, the
other half to the use of the United States ; and such seaman or
mariner, not having signed (uch contra#, (hall not be bound b\
the regulations, nor lubjett to the penalties and forfeitures con
tained in this act.
And br it That at the foot of every such
there fh all be a memorandum in writing, of the day and the hour,
on which such seaman or mariner, who ihall fofhip and fubferibe,
shall render thtijifelves on board to begin the voyage agreed up
on. And if any such seaman or mariner shall neglcft to render
himfelf on board the {hip or veflel, for which he has (hipped, at
the time mentioned in such memorandum, and if the master,
commander, or other officer of the (hip or vefTel, shall on the chv
on u hich such negledl happened, make an entry in the log book
of fcrch ship or vefTd, of the name of such seaman or mariner, and
shall in I ke manner, note the time that he so neglected to render
himfelf (after the time appointed) every such seaman or mariner
shall forfeit for every hour, which he shall so neglt ft to render
hi«*ifelf, one day's pay, according to the rate of wages agreed up
on, to be dedutted out of his wages. And if any such seaman or
mariner shall wholly neglect to render himfelf on board of such
ihip or vefTel, or having rendered himfelf on board (hall after
wards delcri and tfcape, so that the (hip or vefTel proceed to fca
without him, evety such seaman or mariner shall forfeit and pay
to the mailer, owner, or ronfignee of the said ship or vefTel, a sum
equal to that which (hall have been paid to him by advance at
the time of figningthe con»raft,over and befidesthe sum so advan
ced, both which sums Ihall be recoverable in any court, or before
any justice or justices of any State, city town or county within
the United States, which, by the laws thereof, have cognizance
of debts of equal value, against such seaman or mariner,or his surety
or sureties, in cafe he shall have given surety to proceed the voyage.
And be it enafitd y That if the mate or firft officer undei
the master, and a majority of the crew of any Ihip or vessel, bound
on a voyage to any foreign port, lllill, after the voyqge is begun
(and before the (hip or vefTel (hall have left the land) diffcover
that the said (hip or vessel is too leaky, or is otherwise unfit in
her crew, body, tackle, apparel, furniture, provisions or (lores,
to proceed on the intended vdyage, and (hall require such unfit
nefs to b~ "nquired into, the master or commander shall upon the
requeftof the said mate, (or other officer) and such majority, forth
with procecd to, or stop at, the nearest or most convenient port or
place where such enquiry can be made, and (hall there apply to
the judge of the diftrift court, if he shall there reside, or if no%
to some Justice of the Peace of the city, town, or place, taking
with him two or more of the said crew who fnall have made (uch
requefl; and thereupon such jndge orjuftice is hereby authorised
and required toifTue his precept directed to three pcrfons in the
neighborhood the mofl fkilful in maritime affairs that can be
procured, requiring them to repair on board such (hip or veflel,
and to examine the fame in refpeft to the defe&s and inefficien
cies complained of, and to make report to him, the said judge,
or justice, in writing under their hands, or the hands of two of
them, whether in any, or in what refpefct the said (hip or vefTel is
unfit to procecd on the intended voyage, and what addition of
men, provi r ions, or flores, or what repairs, or alterations in the
body, tackle or apparel will be necefTary ; and upoiv such report
the said judge or juft:cc shall adjudge and determine, and ihall
endorse on the said report his judgment, whether the said fhipor
vefTel is fit to proceed on the intruded voyage, and if not, whether
such repairs can be made, or deficiencies. fuppliccL where the
Ihip or veflf-1 then lays, or whether it be neceiTary for the said
(hip or vessel to return to the port from whence she firft failed, to
be there refuted, and the master and crew shall, in all things
conform to the said judgment ; and the master or commander
(ha!!, in the firft instance, pay all the costs of such view, report,
*nd«judgmem, to be taxed and allowed on a fair copy thereof
certified by the said judge or justice. But if the complaint of the
said crew shall appear upon the said reuort and judgment, to have
beep without foundation, then the said master, or the owner or
consignee of such ship or vefTel, shall deduct the amount thereof,
and of rcafonnble djrhages for the detention, (to be afceriained
by the said judge or justice) out of the wares growing due to the
complaining feamenor mariners. And if afcer such judgment,
iuch ship or veflel is fit to procecd on her intended voyage, or af
ter procuring fu»h men, provisions, ftor s, repairs or alterations
as may be dire&ed, the said seamen or mariners, or either of them,
ihall vefufe to proceed on the voyaga, it shall and may be lawful
for any J»ftice ; of the peace to commit by warrant under his hand
»nd sens, every such seaman or mariner, (who shall so refufe) to
the common gaol of the county, there to remain without bail or
mainprise, until he shall have paid double the sum, advanced to
him v at the time of fnbfcribing thi contra# for the voyage, toge
ther wit h (uch readable costs as shall be allowed by the said juf
tiee, and mf-rted in the f<rid.wariant, And the surety or sureties of
such seaman or maruier (in cafe he or they shall have given any)
(hill rsmam l?able for such pjymrnt, m>r shall any fach leaman
or mariner, be upon anv : writ of habeas corpus, or o
tnrrwif-. until such sum be paid by him or them, or his or their
surety o? sureties. for waat«f any form of commitment, or other
previous proceedings : Provided, That fu/Kcioifc matter shall be
made to appear, upon the return of such habeas corpus and an
examination then to be had, to detain Inm lor the causes herein
before afTigned.
And be it enafled, That if any person shall harbor or se
crete any seaman or mariner belonging to any ship or vefTel,
knowing them to belong thereto, evfry such person, on convic
tion thereof, before any court in the city, town or county, where
he, flie or they may reiide, Hull forfeit and nay ten dollars for
every day which he, ihe or they (hail continue so to harbor or fc
crete such seaman or mariner, one half to the Ul'eof the person pro
fccuting for the fame, the other half to the life of the United
States ; and no sum exceeding one dollar, shall be recoverable
from any seaman or mariner by any one person, for any debt, con
trasted daring the time such seaman or mariner shall actually be
long to any ship or vefltl, until the voyage, for Which such seaman
or mariner engaged, (hall be ended.
And be it enabled, That if any ftaman or mariner, who (hall
have fubferibed such contrast as is herein before described, shall
absent himfelf from on board the ship or vefTel in which he shall
so have (hipped, without leave of the master, or officer com
manding on board, and the mate, or other officer having charge
»f the log-book, shall make an entry therein, <>f the name ot such
f aman or mariner, on the day on which he (hall so absent him-
If, and if such seaman or mariner shall return to his duty with
in forty-eight hours, such seaman or mariner lhall forfeit three
ay's pay, for every day which he shall so absent himfelf, to be
ledufted out of his wage s ; but if any seaman or mariner shall
absent himfelf for more than forty-eight hours ac one time, he
lhall forfeit all the wages due to him, and all his goods and chat
ties which were on board the said fliip or vefTel, or in any ftorc
\ here they ipay have been lodged the time of his defcrtion, to
the use of the owners of the ship or vefTel, and moreover shall be
iable to pay to him or them, ail damages, which he or they may
attain, by being obliged to hire other seamen or mariners in his
or their place, and such damages shall be recovered with costs in
any court, or before any justice or justices, having jurifdiftion
of the recovery of debts, to the value of ten dollars or upwards.
And be itenatted, That every seaman or mariner shall be entitled
to demand and receive from the mailer, or commander of the ship
vefTel to which they belong, one third part of (he wages which
hall be due to him,at every port where such ship or vefTel shall un
adc and deliver her cargo, before the voyage be ended, unless the
ontrary be expressly stipulated in ihe contrast. and as soon as the
voyage is ended, and the cargo or ballast be fully discharged at
ie last port of delivery, every seaman or mariner shall be entitled
• the wages which shall be then due according to his contra# ;
nd if fucn wages shall not be paid within ten days after such dis
charge, or if any dispute shall a rife between the master and sea
men or mariners touching the fiid wages, it shall be lawful* for
the judge of thediftuft whercthe said ship or vefTel shall be, or,
in cafe his residence be more than three miles from the place, or
of his ahfence from the place of his residence, then, for any judg
or juflicc of the peace, to fummou the master of such ship or vet
fel to appear before him, to shew cause, why process should not
ifTue againftfu<h ship or vefTel, her tackle, furniture and apparel,
according to the course of admiralty courts, to infwer for the said
wages; and if the master shall neglect to appear, or appearing,
shall not shew that the wages arc paid, or othcrwife fatisfi<-d or for
feited, and it the matter in dispute shall not be forthwith fettled,
in such cafe, the judge or jufttce shall certify to the clerk of the
court of the diftnft, that there is fufficient caufc of complaint,
whereon to found admiralty process, and thereupon thecleikul
such court shall ifTue proccfs against the said ship or vefTel, and
thefuit shall be proceeded on in the said court, and final judg
ment be given, according to the course of admira ty courts in such
cases used, and in such suit, all the seamen or mariners (having
caufc of complaint of the like kind, agamft the fame ship or vci
fel) shall be joined as complainants, and it shall be incumbent on
the master or commander, to produce the contrast, and lo -book,
if required, to afccrtain any meters in dispute, otherwHe th?
complainants shall be permitted to state the contents thereof, and
the proof of the contrary, shall lie on the master or commander,
but nothing herein contained shall prevent any seaman or mariner
from having, or maintaining any action, at common law, for
the recovery of his wages, or from immediate proccfs out of any
court having admiralty jurifdiftion, wherever any ship or vefTel
maybe found, in cale Ihe fhafl have left the port of deliv.ry
where her voyage ended, before payment of the wages, or in cafe
she shall be about to proceed to sea before the eud of the ten days,
next atrer the delivery of her cargo or ballast.
And be it enacted, That if any seaman or mariner, who shall
have ligncd a contrast to peiform a voyage, shall, at any port 01
place, defert,or (hall absent himfelf from such ship or vefTel with
out leave of the master, or office* commanding in theabfenceof
the master, it shall be lawful for any justice of peace, within the'
United .States (upon the complaint ot the maftet) to ilfue his war
rant to apprenend such deserter, and bring him before fuchjuflice
and if it theft lhall appear by due proof, that he has figncd a con
trast within the intent and meaning of this ast, and that the
voyage agreed tor ;s not finifhed, altered, or the contrast other
wile diftblved, and that such seaman or maiincr has def.rted the
Ihipor vefLl, or absented himfelf without leave, the said justice
lhall commit him 10 the house ot correction, or common goal of
the city, town or place, there to remain until the said ship or vcf
fel shall be ready to proceed on her voyage, or till th» master shall
require his discharge, and then to be delivered to the said master,
he paying all the coil of such commitment, and dedutting the
fame out of the wages due to iuch seaman or mariner.
And be it enafled, That every ship or vefTel belonging to a citi
zen or citizens of the United States, of the burthen of one hun
dred and fifty tons or upwards, navigated by ten or more pcrfons
in the whole,and bound on a vOyage without the limits of the U
nited States, shall be provided with a chcft of medicines, put up
by some apothecary of known reputation, and accompanied by
directions for admimflei ing the lame; and the said medicines
lhall be examined by the lame or some other apothecary, once at
ieaft in every year,and iupphed withtrcfh medicines,in the place
of such as shall have been used ftr spoiled, and in defaultof having
such medicine chelt so provided, and kept fit for use, ihj mafte?
or commandcr of such ship or vwflel, shall provide and pay for all
such advice, medicine, or of phyfici?ns, as any of the
crew lhall ltand in need of, in caTe of sickness, at etcry poit or
place, where the ship or veiTel may touch or trade at during the
voyage, without any deduftton from the wages otfuchfick fea"inan
or mariner.
'ATES*
And be it enabled, That every (hip or vcffel, belonging asafore
faid, bound on a voyage across the Alantic ocean, Shall, at the
time-os leaving the lad port from whence (he fail!, have on board
well secured under decli, at least sixty gallons of water, one hun
dred pounds of fitted flclh meat, and one hundred pounds of
whollome <hip bread, for every person on board such ihip or ves
sel, overand befidcs such other provisions, ftorci and live flock as
(hall by the mailer, or passengers be put on board, and in like pro
portion for Ihorter or longer voyages ; and in cafe the crew of a
ny (hip or velLI, which (hall not have been so provided, (hall be
put upon Ihort allowance in water, flelh or bread, duiine the
voyage the matter or owner of such (hip or vcffcl shall pay *
each of (he crew, one day's wages beyond the wages agreed on,
tor every day they shall be so put to Aort allowance, to be reco
vered in the lame manner as their stipulated wages
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
of tbejioufe of Rehrrfcntahvet
JOHN ADAMS, Viec-Prejidcn of the United States.
. • President of the Senate.
ApritOVED, T\J L Y THE TWENTIETH ,
nu? Co p E v ) VASH INGTON ' Pxf'dvncfth, Unlte&s.
540
TBQMAS JEFrXRSOM, -Seer-tar, of Stat,,
FOR SALS
The IRON WORKS,
Belonging to the Eftatc of james hunter. deceafcJ,
pleasantly fuuatcd on the falls of Rappahannock River, with
in two miles of the town of Frederickfburg, and one ot Falmouth
and Tide-Water Consisting of a Forge* 130 feet by /ja, ei?hc
fires, and four hammers—a Coal House, 8o feet by 40 —a slitting
aid Rolling Mill, 68 feet by 30, for Sheet, Rolled and Slit Iron-
A Merchant Mill, 70 feet by 36, with two pair of stones ; one
whereof French Burr, and every other neccfTary apparatus for
manulafturing Flour in the best method.—A Saw Mill adjoining
rhe fame, 6o teet by I©. The walls of all these ave of
flone, extremely strong and neat, of the best workmanship. The
running gcers, machinery and fixtures of the whole,
ly and judiciously contrived, and performed in the most masterly
and advantageous manner, on large and improved plans. The
different departments are conveniently d fpofed and arranged at
proper diftanccs, on a deep and capacious canal, calculated to
supply more large and extensive works, and future improvements;
cautiously secured and guarded against cafuallies from frefhets, or
high floods ; has its source in the mam body of the rivrr ; a co
pious proportion whereof, to any reasonable degree of quantity,
is at pltafurr collected and turned 111 by a compleat set of well
conftrufted strong dams, which have not broke, or given wav,
since their formation, near nineteen years past.—-The head, and
fall of the waier operating on the wheels, is about twenty feet:
the greatest part of the works are in good repair, and the whole
may be rendered foat a small cxpcnce. In the appendages there
to, are a convenient Tanvard, variety of shops and utenfifs for
mechanical buCnefs of different kinds, houses for the Managrrs,
Workmen, &c.-r And about 4 to 80co acres of land contiguous,
mostly wooded, including some Farms and meadow land, d'fj,
will be offered for sale, a number of valuable Slaves, such as H
mermen, Refiners, Colliers, Forge Carpenters, Wheelwrights,
Smiths, Millers, Waggoners, &c. These works have advantages
over any in America, particularly in refpeft to the sale of their
produce, as there is none of the kind to the southward thereof
most of which extensive; rich and fertile country, there is easy
conveyance by water ; nor is there any Forge within qo tniles,
nor a Slitting mill at all in this State, which might fhiire the cuf
torn, or vie w.ith its manufaftory—fome other peculiar advantag
es that can best be pointed out on thepremifes, which on applica
tion will be shewn, and the terms of Sale made known, and vciy
easy for the purchaser, by
Virginia, May 2S, 179?.
Treasury Department*
July j3, 1790.
TICE is hereby given, that Propyls will be rectivtd at the ojficr
of the Secretary oj the Treajury, to the JiiJi day cj' Odober next in
c(jf:ve, Jor t'lirfupply oj all rations, which may be rrautrrdjor the vfeof
the United States, from the firjl day of January to Vie thirty firfi dav of
December 1791, both days rnc/ujive, ut the places, and within the drjlriu 5
herein ajter mentioned, viz.
At arty place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the Jlate of Pennfylvar.ia %
and Fort Pitt and at Fort Pitt,
At any place or places, betwixt Fort ritt and Fort M'lnto/k, on tJii
River Ohio, and at Fort Mlntojh.
At anyplace or places, betwixt Fort M'lntoJh and the mouth oj the Ri
ver Mnjkingvm, an Ja/ the mouth oj the River Mujkingum.
■ U any place or placet, betwixt the mouth of the River Mufiingum, and
ap the fud River to tie TvJcarozodS, and at the Tufcarowas, and tkcr.ce
over to the River, and down the said River to its mouth.
At anyplace or places, betwixt the mouth oj the river Mujkingum, and 1
the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth ojtke said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the month oj Scioto River, and the r.outk
oj the great Miami at the month of the great Miami, and from thente t>
the Rapids, oh M<r /<z//j of the Ohio and at thefaid Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami, ut> the
fa y d Miami, /<? an/<z/ Piquetown, <2r<f thcnce over to the Miami Village.,
on the river of the fame name which empties into Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth oj the
IVabafh, thence up the said Wabajhto Pojl St. Vincennes, as Pofl St. Vin
cennes, and thence up the said river Wabfh, Miami Village, £<•-
deferibed.
At any place or places J rom the mouth of the JVaba/h river to the mouth
of the river Ohio.
At any tlace or places, on the eafl fide of the river Miffifippi,from the
mouth oj the Ohio river, to the mouth of the Illinois river.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to the Miami
Village.
At any place or pi aces, from the Miami Village to Sindujky, and cH
Sandufiy y andjrom Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt aud enango, and at Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Bcuf and at Le Beuf
betwixt Le Bcuf and and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and betwixt Prefif
Isle and the mouth of Cayoga river.
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any place or places, on the rout
from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the way of Big Beaver
creek.
At any placcor places, on the eajl fide of the Mijifppi, between the
mouth of the Ohio and the rivtr Margot inc/ujirefy.
At anyplace or places,from thefaid river Margot, to the river Yazous
inclufwely.
At any place or placesfrom the mouth of the river Tcnnefee, toOcochap-<
po or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at an\places, or within other djlrich,
notfpeeified in thefc propojals,lhe price of the fime to be hereafter agreed
on, betwixt the public ana the contrador.
I he rations to be fubphtd are to confifl of the following articles, viz.
One pound oj bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or % of a pouud of pork.
Half a jilt of rum, bra nay or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vine rar. f .
Irvo pundio/ fjip, > t !r - 100
One pound of Candles, J
The propojkis mujl fpecify the lowejl price per ration. Ko credit is re-
V ilrid - ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Trcafury.
THE Creditors of Col. ELISH A SHELDON, of Salisbury, are
hereby notified, That the Subscribers being appointed Truf
tccs of said She ldon's estate, will attend to the business of their
appointment on the firft Monday of August next, at the house of
Jacob its Da v is. in said Salisbury, agreeable to the Ast of Assem
bly.—The interest of the creditors requires their general atten
dee.. HEZEKIAH FITCH, > T n „
JOHN BIRD, I Tru{l " s "
Salflurv, (Conner.icut/, JuneiZ, 1783.
The Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA,
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten minutes after
&ght o'clock every morning except Sunday.
Stage City Tavern, £
Broad-Way, New-York 7 M * g .5»*790.
gCT 3 A large imprejfion of this paper having heft
flrrtck off from the commencement of the second vol.
April 14. —Those -who incline to become fnbfcrtbers
from that peritdmay be f;trnifbti with the numhtfi
compleat, 1
ADAM HUNTER, or > _
ABNER VERNON. J Kk " cu ' ,r! '
< (3w.)