PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 41 3RO AD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHAXGE, NLW-YOIIK.
[No. 29, cf Vol. ll.j
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA. No. XV.
First follow nature and your judgment frame
By her just ftaodard which isftill the fame.
THE world grows more enlightened : Know
ledge is more equally diffused -• News pa
pers, Magazines, and circulating libraries, have
made mankind wil'er : Titles ai*d diltinitions,
ranks and orders, parade and ceremony, are all
going out of fafhion. This is roundly and fre
quently asserted in the streets, and foinetimes on
theatres of higher rank. Some truth there is in
it : and if the opportunity were temperately im
proved, to the reformation of abuses, the rectifi
cation of errors, and the diflipation of pernicious
prejudices, a great advantage it might be. But,
on the other hand, falfe inferences may be
drawn from it, which may make mankind wiih
for the age of Dragons, Giants and Fairies. If
all decorum, discipline and fubordir.ation arc to
be destroyed, and universal pyrrhonifin, anarchy,
and insecurity of property are to be introduced,
nations will soon vifh their books in allies, seek
for darkness and ignorance, faperftition and fa
viaticifrn, as bleHzngs, and follow the standard of
the firft mad despot who, wuli the enthusiasm of
another Mahomet, will endeavour to obtain them.
Are riches, honors and beauty g'->ing out of
f.ilhion ? Is not the rage for them, on the contra
ry, increased fafter than improvement, i« know
ledge ? As long as either of these arc in vogue,
will there not be emulations and rivalries ? Does
not the increase of knowledge in any man, ia
creafe his emulation ; and the diffusion of know
ledge among men, multiply rivalries ? Has the
progress of faience, arts and letters, yet difiover
ed that there are no passions in human nature ?
No ambition, avarice and a desire of lame ? Are
these pailions cooled,diminished or extinguished ?
Is the rage for admiration less ardent in men or
•women ' Have these propenfitieslefs a tendency
Cty -divjfi&ns, c«ntr»*«»f.i |, Seditions, rau;.;>iis,
and civil wars, than formerly ? On the contrary,
the more knowledge is difFufed, the more the
pailions are extended, and the more fijrioui tliey
grow ? Had Cicero less vanity, or Celar lei's am
bition, for their vast erudition ? Had the King
«fPrulfia less of one, than the other ? I here is
no connection in the mind between science and
paflion, by which the former can extinguijh or
diminish the latter : it on the contrary Sometimes
increases them, by giving them exercise. Were
the pailions of the Romans less vivid, in the age
of Ponipey, than in the lime of Mummius ? Are
those of the Britons, more moderate at this hour
than in the reigns of the Tndors ? Are the paili
ons ol Monks, the weaker forall their learning ?
Are not jealousy, envy, hatred, malice and re
■venge, as well as emulation and ambition, as ran
corous in the cells of Carmelites, as in the courts
of Princes ? Goto the Royal Society of London :
is there less emulation for the chair of Sir Isaac
Newton, than there was, and commonly will be
for all elective presidencies i Is there less animo
lity and rancour, arising from mutual emulations
in that region of science, than there is among
the inoft ignorant of mankind ? Go to Paris :
how do you find the men of letters ? United,
friendly, harmonious, ineek, humble, modest,
charitable? prompt to mutual forbearance .' un
ofl'uming ? ready to acknowledge superior me
rit ? zealous to encourage the firft symptoms ol
genius ? Alk Voltaire and Piolieau, Marrnontel
and De Mably.
The increase and diiTemination of knowledge,
instead of rendering unneceliary, the checks of
emulation and the balances of rivalry, in the or
ders of society and conftitntion of government,
augment the neceflity of both. It becomes the
more indispensable, that every man lhouldknow
his place and be made to keep it. Bad men increase
in knowledge as fall as good men, and science,
arts, taste, sense and letters, are employed for
the purpoies of iniuftice and tyranny, as well as
those of law and liberty : f»r corruption as well
as for virtue.
Frenchmen ! Ast and ihink like youifclves !
confefling human nature, be magnanimous and
wife. Acknowledging and boalting yourselves
to be inen, avow the feelings of men. The af
ic&ation of being exempted from passions, is in
liuman. The grave pretention to such fingulaii
ty is solemn hypocrisy. Bouh are unworthy of
your frank and generous natures. Consider that
government is intended to set bounds to pafSor.s
WEDNESDAY, JL,VC 2t, 179°-
which nature has not limitte 1: and to assist rca
fon, confidence, jufticc and trjih In comrouling
intefefts, which, without it, vould be as unjuli
as uncontroulable.
Americans ! rejoice, that from experience, you
have learned wifdoin : and i • 'read of whimsical
and fantaftical projedts, you -jve adopted a pro
mising eflay, towards a wel'. v' defed government.
Infte.ul of following any tr - ;n examples, to re
turn to the legislation of. jj V/ contemplate the
means of restoring decency,-<4otierty and order
in society, by preserving, an . -ompleating, if any
thing Ihould be found necelK ry to compleat, the
balance of your governinen In a well' balanc
ed government, reason, c< jfcience, truth and
virtue mult be refpetfled by ril parties, aiid ex
erted for the public good. Advert to the princi
ples on which you comnien<vd that glorious felt
defence, which, if you bt nve with fleadinefs
and eonfiftency, inay ultimately loosen the chains
of all mankind. If you will take the trouble to
read over the memorable proceedings of the town
of Boston, on the 28thday of Otftober 1 772, when
the Committee of Correfpon-tence of twenty one
per sons. was appointed to state the rights of the
Colonics as men, as christians and as iubjetfls,
and to publilh them to the world, with the in
fringements and violations of them, you will find
the great principles of civil 1 'id religious liberty,
for which you have eontesided so fuccefsfully,
and which the world is contending for after your
example. I could tranferibe with plcafure, the
whole of this immortal pamphlet, which is a real
pidlure of the fun of liberty, riling on the hu
man race : but shall feletfi only a few words,
more dire<ftly to the preient purpose. " Ihe
" firll fundamental positive law of all common
" wealths or states, is the eftabliihment of the
" legislative power." Page 9.
" It is absolutely neceliary, in a mixed govern
" ment, like that ofthis Province, that a due pro
" portion, or balance ofpov f Ihould be ellablifli
" ed anifng the fcW s' cratfiches of the lcgifla
" tive< Our ancestors fefeeived from King Wil
" liam and Queen Mary, a charter, by which it
'< was understood by both parties in the contravfl,
" that such a proportion or balance was fixed ;
" and therefore every thing which renders any
" one branch of the legiflauve more indepen
dent of the other two, than it was originally
" designed, is an alteration of the Conftitu
" tion." (To be continued.)
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE US IT ED STATES.
PARIS.
INSTRUCTIONS KOR THE COLONIES,
Presented to the National Afitmbly, in the name of
the Committee appointed Jor that purpose, the 23 d
March, I 790.
By Mr. Barnavi, Deputy from Dauphiny.
CON T I N U 18.
THESE forms being agreed upon, the Nation,
a! Afl'embly should point one the measures
which ought to bepurfued, to putthem in execu
tion
The most prompt and moll simple appear to be
the belt; transcription, publication and the autho
rity ofitribunals, are in general, means little fui
tablfc to the eftablilhiiient of representative ailem
blies. They would suit ltill less in the present
circumstances.
It has appeared to the National Aflembly, that
the diligence of the governor ot each colony, fe
curedby the vigilance ofthe citizens, and by his
responsibility, is fuflicient to forward proclama
tions, and fix up in all the parilhes, its decrees
and inllrucftions.
This form being accomplished, the decrees and
inftrudiiotis being authentically known, the zeal
and understanding of the citizens will secure their
execution. ,
They will of tliemfelves form into parochial
aflemblies—they will verify those who fulfil the
conditions required to vote therein—they will
calculate the number to ascertain that of the de
puties .bey ought to fend to the colonial aflembly ;
they will in short eledt these deputies, who shall
immediately repair to the central town, pointed
out in this inftrutftion, and who, in concert, will
there form the colonial aflembly, or will transfer
it to such placf as fliall appear most suitable to
C The only difficulties which can arise, will be
I such as relate to the colonial aflemblies already
[ farmed and existing in some ofthe colonies.
529
If tliefe aflemblies after being informed of the
decrees and inftruftions of the National AHem
bly, conceive that the forming a new a-flbmbly, ru
conformity to these inftrudtions, is snore advan
tageous to the colony than their own continuati
on, there is no doubt but that their declaration
will be perfectly fufficient, and that they will
immediately proceed to new eleifiions.
But if they are not of this opinion, it will be
their business to colledt the sentiments of the in
habitants in this refpe<ft.
The National Auembly lias announced that
thele aflemblies can fulfil the funclions pointed
out by its decrees of the Bth March, whenever
they lhall have been duly ele<fted and avowed by
the citizens.
Far from having by this disposition interditfled
rhe inhabitants of the colonies,the power of choo
sing between the existing aflemblies, and those
which may be formed, after the prefetit convoca
tion, the National Aflembly has on the contrary
implicitly exprcfled itfelf.
But even if it had not acknowledged this right,
they would have naturally poflefled it—and noth
ing could oblige either the metropolis or the
colony to treat together, by the intervention of
an aflembly which they themselves who had ele<ft
ed it, should not acknowledge,.
The question then is to trace a form, agreea
ble to which this «ption may be speedily and
peaceably effed:ed.
This can only be accompli/lied by the deliber
ation of the pariflies.
It is neceflary therefore that each explains it
felf, and this obje«sl of deliberation ought to be
the firft business of the parochial aflemblies.
In the space of fifteen days, after the procla
mation and fixing it up, they shall be bound to
announce their wiflies, and shall immediately for
ward them to the governor of the colo«y, and the
colonial aflembly.
' Such as shall have decided in favor of forming
a new aflembly, shall not nominate their deputies
before the wishes of the majority has been ack
nowledged conformably to their opinion, for an
anticipated election would only tend to excite
troubles and Cornells.
As long as the wilh of the colony lhall not be
known, the existing colonial afletnbly may com
mence the business pointed out by the decree of
the National Aflembly—but it is evident that the
right of executing and provilionally modifying
the decrees of the National the mu
nicipalities, and the administrative aflemblies,
cannot belong to it, before the voice of the parilh
es has confirmed its powers and existence.
After the titne has elapsed, when ail the paro
chial assemblies lhall have explained themfelve#
on this head, the governor lhall notify in the molt
public manner, the result of the deliberations
which thall have come to hand, and lhall give
each pariih a particular and authentic acknow
ledgment of it.
If the majority of the fuffrages of the pariihea
which lhall have deliberated demands the forma
tion of a new afletnbly it will clearly follow that:
the existing afiembly is not avowed and authori
zed by the colony—its powers (hall cease-"-it lhali
immediately proceed to the formation of a new
afiembly, agreeable to the forms indicated in this
inftro&ion, and confeouently all the parochial
afl'etnblies /hall proceed in the fame manner they*
would have done, if at the time of the firft pro
clamation no colonial afiembly had existed.
If on the contrary one half of the fuffrages of
the deliberating parishes vote for the continua
tion of the colonial atfembly, it shall b« preserved.
and shall fully exercise the fun<stions and powers
attributed to it by the decree of the National As
sembly.
Thus, .time will not be uselessly con fumed, the
form freely admitted by the inhabitants for the
formation of their AiTembly will not be contra
vened—but the powers shall be withdrawn or
confirmned, at the moment when new functions
and new circumstances, no longer admit of a foun
dation on tliofe which it formerly received, the
adhelion of the colony and the confidence of the
metropolis.
No doubts, no disorder, no dangerous delay can
result froi» the observation of these forms, if the
colonists are penetrated with the idea that their
dearell interests and the most sacred duties of a
citizen oblige them to submit without a murmur
to the voice of the majority, if they perceive t,hat
promptitude and unanimity in the execution of
£Whole NO. 133.]Measures which are pointed out to tliem, can atone
happily extricate them out of the critical iituation
in which circumstances have placed them, that it is
their business instantly t® secure, by a good consti
tution, the hopes whichtheyhaVe conceived, and
the advantages offered to them,, and that so far
from conducting them to-this end, the prolonga
tion of public fermentation will shortly surround
thein with such pressing and terrible danger, that
all the measures they may make to oppose them
will coine too late to secure them against these
effeds. (To be continued.)
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FROM THE LETDEN GAZETTE
Published b\ Stephen Luzac.
£ A Paper that is considered in Europe astheinoft
authentic medium of intelligence—and as such
circulates more extensively than any titber
iimilar publication.]
PARIS, MARCH 8.
M. Rab.a-ud de St. Etienne's Speechj concluded
from our paper of\qth in-fi.
IN (hort gentlemen 1 repeat it, brcaufel am firm
ly convinced of it, that bankruptcy isimpolfi
fcle, because you are here—and to effeift it, but
one mean exists, that is to separate you.
The Impojls it is said are not collected—they are
colleited throughout the greatest part of the king
dom, as your own correspondence gentlemen on
the subject will teftify—fome indirect imports are
no longer collected ! This is true, but you are
offered, and there will be formed substitutes in
their place : You will eftablilh them, and the
people will adopt them, and will pay them with
pleasure. Unfortunate people, who lovetoferve
your country, and your king, without affectation,
what is your lot Opprcffion when you bend
your head, and calumny when you dare to raise ir.
Is there then no evil, it is aiked—are our fears
then chimerical ? There is one gentlemen—it is
great—it is prefling—and yeu ought to remedy
it—this evil is the scarcity of specie. The cause
of it is ealily pointed out—it is owing to too much
paper in circulation.— Seeing you know the cause
ofthe evil, you will find a remedy for it.
I take the liberty to invite you, to take imme
diately into consideration the ?ne?noria! of the firjl
minifler of the finances, that memorial which you
have been expecting this fortnight past, and the
adJrefs of the Commons of Paris• You will endea
vor to restore an equilibrium between specie and
paper, by givingat this timefome preponderance
to specie, and l'ome confidential allurement to
bring it into circulation again.
A thousand objects indeed press you, and the
people tre impatiently expecting the fruit of your
hibor—tout t)ie present evil is mod prefling—you
will only quit for an inflant the obje<fts of your
indefatigable cares, to refuine them with great
er ease and fatisfatfiion—and disengaged from
the solicitude which opprcfles you, you willcom
pleat the Constitution with the more courage,
andfthe consolation you shall derive from it, will
renovate your vigor. The people of France
will second you with their patience—the enemies
ofthe public weal will find themselves deceived,
in calculating too lightly on the pretended incon
stancy of the French nation : The generous peo
ple of rhe capital, those brave companions of
your labors, will continue to fnpport them—they
will find that by aidingand prefervingyou, they
preserve themselves, the King, the people, everv
good citizen, the creditors of the State,.the cap
ital and tlie province, all will have a common
cause, the fafety of the country, and the com
pletion of the constitution ; With this noble and
generous concert, I repeat once more gentlemen,
that bankruptcy is impojp.ble, and Fratrce cannotptrifij.
BOSTON, JULY 14
By Cap:. Harris, from' Martinique.we are made
acquainted with the particulars of the recent dis
turbances in that Iftaitd, They beg-in on the
?d of June —and firft rose from the Municipality
denying the free 111 ulattoes/Wf/j' to celebrate the
day as the whites did. On which account a mu
latto 011 (entry quarrelled with His Captain, and
finally killed him. This creating an alarm—the
mulattoes on duty, flint tbe gates of the fort, and
fired from the loop holes on tbofe who were out
iide. The report, that the mulattoes were rifino
tailed all the inhabitants t® arms. A scene of
ravage hollility eafued—and about nineteen of
the mulattoes and Whites'were butchered. The
American vefiieis were boarded, and all the jnili
tary weapons on board taken away—which the
Vifconnt, de Ponteves offered to pay for. There
was not any firing from the navy, as was report
ed ; and the riot had subsided intirely when Capt.
Hasrts left the Island.
Dispatches were sent bv the Viscount t>E Pon-
THVes to the Hon. Consul of France, by a veflel
•which has arrived at Marblehead.
We are authorized to fay, thst the information
some time (inre pnblifhed in the papers, »hat the
ports in the French IVuft Indiu, were lhvit to the
illips of the Uiiited States, is not authentic.
By 1 veflels from Europe, we are informed, that
She prolpect of" WAR. between Great-Britain and
Spain, cxi(ls no longer. The Spaniards having'
conceded to the demands of restitution made by
the Englilh. v One Million of Dollars, we are told
was the price of peace.
That the war in Europe will yet continue some
time the foljowiftg—extra<sl of a letetr from the
Turkish Snltan, to one of his Pachas will evince.
" My intention, she vows I address to Heaven
night and day, are not to lay my sabre in the
scabbard, before, with the grace of God, 1 have
avenged myfelf on my enemies. I hope that, for
the glory of the Prophet our Lord, our Matter,
the Son of both worlds, Almighty God will help
the execution o£-our projects."
COMMERCE.
For the season of the year —which is usually
dull—our harbour is very full of shipping. A
gentleman, who counted them yesterday, has
furnilhed 11s with the ll3tement, as follows:—
13 5 tips -;6 Brigs 7
52 S h'nc "4 Sloops 3 total 175
■FitlE SCHOOLS.
On FritlayTtill, tie Gentlemen Seleclmen, the
other gentlemen of- ■he school rommictcc, toge
ther with a ; Vc ti umber of the Rev. Cler
gy, and other ciriip.-«s, agreeable to annual usage
visited the feverul free Schools of this metropo
lis, and were mu- h gratified with the elegant
Specimens of P-n dr'nip—the proficiency made
in Grammar and Rtading—the abundant testimo
nials of the attention and assiduity of the several
Maflers, and the decent decorum of the scholars
exhibited on the occasion. At this visitation it
appeared, that there were in the several schools,
the following number of pupils, viz.
Boysi Girls
In Mr. Hunt's Gram. School, 63
Meflrs: Carter and Bingham's, ? „
writing and reading do. J 220 180
Meflrs. Vinal and Tichnor's do. 229 185
Meflrs. Tileflon and Cheny's do. 2jo 174
In all 1301, undtfr the age of 14.
laws of The united states.
FUBLISHS.D
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THK SECOND SESSION.
Begun and held at the Cilw of New-York, on Monday the fourti
o January, one seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT further to provide for the payment of
the Invalid PENSIONERS of the United States.
T5 E it cra'ud by the Senate and Houje of Rrprrfrvtiitrm of the Unit.
Ed Mates oj America ,k Cmgrefs aJfrmbUi, That the military
Penlions which hav« been granted and paid by the States respec
tively m pursuance of foi tner a£h of the United States in Congress
aUembled.and fuch,af by passed in the prt fcnt fed, on of Congref.
ar . e ' °/lT'l", , C dec . lired to bc t° Invalids, who were wouod
ed anddifabled during the late war, (hall be continued and paid
by the Lnitcd States, irom the fourth day of March last, for the
Ipace ot one year, under fifceh regulations as the Preftdent of the
United States may dircft.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Houjc of Reprefentatwes.
iOIIN ADAMS, Vtce-Prejident oj the United States.
and Prejident oj the Senate.
AprROV * D > July the sixteenth, 1700.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident of the Untied Stales
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF iIEPRESEN TATIVES
WEDNESDAY, JULY 7.
Sketch of tbi Debate,- in Committee of the -whole on
the RESIDENCE BILL. '
MR. BURKE's motion under confutation which was
in fubllance—That the feat of government (hould remain in
ivew-York two years from last May ; and from the exp, ra
tion of that time to the year 1800, that the feat nf
(hould remain,n Philadelphia. ° f S overnm ="t
Mr. Burke observed that he was induced to make this motion
from a wilhi to accommodate ; as a delegate from South-Carolina
he considered himfell a proper situation to come forward o'
his occasion ; the New-York and Pennsylvania member, are pa
ties concerned m the bnfinefs, they are judges in their own cause •
and in this view it may be expefled that they will be part"" to
their refpea,ve,nterefts_he therefore conceived that a mo on bl
a member from a State not specially interested mit,ht K. j
with the grcateft propriety ; 'he Vome rel'
pefting the injustice of so suddenly quitting New-York he ad
thC ti,ne ' at Which thf pcmova l of ,e c P ™°:
Mr. Bloodworth spoke in favor of the motion j ■
■lutlice and good policy, as no rrafon pointmg Z'the ~ ? r "J
Jn ""mediate removal had been afligned. g ° f
530
762 539
Mr. Lawrstloe entered into a confiderMion of the pftttnfioiit
New-York, he laid (he had a claim to the feat of goveinmc
from the various circumstances which had attended the rcfideu'rl
from the time Congress fii ft came to this city, and trom the exer
tions which it had recently made ; Mr. Lawrance did not reier
particularly to the improvements of the city for the accommoda
tion of the government —his observations were general, and rcf
pefted the policy and expediency of the measure.
Mr. Page opposed the amendment, he observed that as to the
claims of New-York he did not conceive that Ihe had any clsins
whatever, it is true fhc has put herfelf to considerable expence t.>
accommodate the government, and he was ready to acknowledc»
her patriotism 0:1 this account, but said he, there is not a eity of
equal magnitude in the union that would not have done the (am- •
and (he is reimbursed by the advantages (he has derived, u
does rtceive by the money that is expended here in con'fequence ■
he said that the accommodation of the people at large ought to be'
a prime confid ration with the legislature, and in this view io a
void any riflt-rcfpeQirig the bill and to fix a business which li d »
much agitated the public mind, he lhould vote against the m -
tion. There is one argument indeed, said he, whieh deserves au
tention. I mean that which is founded on a supposition that the
bill is unconditional, and that this was the opinion of niy col
'eague on a former occasion. Sir, it was then my opinion al(o •
but we were then over ruled by this house, and now have the c
pinion of the Senate also, against our conftruftion of the conflin .
tion. —However, I rely not merely on this circumstance, for 1
find, upon an examination of all that the constitution fays about
an adjournment, that the clause in the bill is perfectly conftuu.
tional, as there are but twofentences in the constitution iifp«&in e
adjournments. The last clause of the 3th fe&ion of ihe ill articli
and the 3d feflion of the jd article, the former of which runl
thus, " Neither house during the fellion ofCongrefs (hall, witho t
the consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nur iu
any other place than that in which the twohoufes (hall be fitting"
Now, fir, to be inconsistent with this clause of the constitution
the bill (hould direst that adjournments (hall take place withm t
the consent of the Senate, but the bill before us was framed by
the Senate, and a perfect concurrence of the three branches of the
legiftature is propoled to the adjournment now under considera
tion : how then can it be inconsistent with the 3d fe&ion of the
2d article of the constitution, whieh gives the President a right to
interfere in cafe of a disagreement refpefting the time of an ad
journment ? It might indeed be said upon a question conccrnii.g
common adjournments, that the two houses would do well to rt
tain the right of adjourning without the consent of the President:
—But, fir, this is an extraordinary cafe, in which it will be'happr
for Congress and their conftitucnts if the business of adjournment
(hall depend upon the joint consent of the three branches of the
l'-giflaturr, and not on that of the two houses alone. Without
this check, after getting to Philadelphia, on an adjournment, we
mig'U be brought back to New-York, and then carried back a
gain ; and so on without end. I think, therefore, that the clause
in the bill is not only constitutional, but proper.
Mr. Tucker said he (hould move to divide the question ; but lie
had his objections to the palling a bill for a purpose which a
joint resolution was fully competent to effefling; his argument a
gainst the bill turned upon this idea, that Philadelphia would be
come the permanent residence, and this he conceived to be the
main ebjcQ ; for said he, it will become the duty of Pennsylvania,
to prevent Congress from ever leaving that city, if they (hall at the
expiration of the period of ten years think that Philadelphia is the
heft place in which to continue the feat of government—he said he
was sorry to hear the arguments which had been brought forward
c:i this question refpefting losing the bill if it> was amended ; he
thought them calculated to abridge* fair leglhtive di!«u:Gon of
the mrritsof the fubjeft : Mr. Tucker spoke in handsome terms of
the citizens of New-York.
Mr Gerry was in favor of putting the question as ori<-it»lH
moved--the complexion of the bill affects the temporary rt&
dence of Congress; to form a judgment of the amendment hl.
poled, " is neceDTary to take a *iew of the proportion as it HaiFi
in the bill : The state and city of New-York are differently situa
ted fiom any other place at which Congress ever fat—the accom
modations of all other places at which Congress has ever fat have
been an appropriation of their public buildings. When ihe Con
ltitution was adopted, Congress determined that the'6ift meeting
(hould be in New-York ; and from this determination it became
necellary that accommodations (liould be provided. Haa not
New-York done this, they would have been charged win, parti
inony, or diUffcftion, or withboth. It would have been said that
, c "y having been a Britilh garrison were careless and indiffer
ent in refpeft to the government ; these considerations and their
attachment to the Constitution produced the elegant building in
which the ftftions of Congress have been held ; in addition 10 this
they have incurred other heavy expences to beautify and render
"or.' convenient the feat of government. These expcnces the city
as incurred to do honor to the new government, and they have
not been reimbursed—will itnot then be considered as thehcighth
or ingratitude to quit this place under such circumlldnccs ?
Let us now consider the bill in a national point of view : He
ac now edged that Philadelphia was undoubtedly nearer the cen
tre ol wealth and population than New-York ; but the Potowmac
" u° T r e " cntrlc than the P ,acc * which we now set.
e aid that provided Philadelphia is the temporary feat, and
lhould thence become the permanent residence, we (Kail go but
90 miles out of 250, the proposed centre on the Potowmac.
e recapitulated his former observations, and faid,civilities onght
to meet civi lities,and are as much obiigatory on States as individuals.
It there is any weight in the argument, it will apply with e
qua orce in tavorot Baltimore, when the government (hall be
rcmrne to Philadelphia. The law of the state of Pennsylvania
lie laid, is against Philadelphia being made the feat of government.
He contrasted thcreprefeniationof New-York and Philadelphia,
an rernai ed on the inequality, and the advantages which the lat
■ r enjoy ed over the foimcr. He dreaded he said the confeouen
ces or rejetting the proportion ior continuing in New-York two
year ,an urged the necellity o( cultivating harmony between the
two States; but the fubjeft having been fully difcuJcd, I ihall
said he add no further observations.
f, n r r errnan as * n of the motion, and urged several rea
lons m support of it. b
Yn*rl r 'rfJ eC^ r T f -'i he n,OuM vote for thc blli «it is. for if
" ?° uM . b „ e 'if"ted only lor 6 months, he believed the bill
r , e b Y the Senate. He said there were two points
• n ■ ' rc 9 ui,c d some consider at ion ; the one is refpe£bng the ob
rr-ftiiw ° n ac^? unt adjournment ;. he thought nodifficuly could
itT,. . rom 'iS ' ie believed no President would evoi give his
of ,L °, a re P ca ' 'he law : Theother is refpe£ling the exertions
vca -1", IZ^ n ' ° cw "York ;on this point Mr. fackfon obfer
r ' j 'r ac k now, ledgment was due to ihe citizens; but the
- rB . ' u'y wo "ld always occur, and perhaps greater, let Con
gr.fs move when they will.
awr3 " ,<: «- replied to Mr. Jackfor. He said if the bill
■ r. e '! U .P to Senate, with the amendment, and it should be
{ J ' e '' w '" he sent back, and then the house may fay,
u , P.y adhere or not—if they do not determine to ad
» e 1 may then be pasted, so that the obie&ion on thr*
*ecounil appears to he void of any foundatton.
r * -r' " nn g observed that much is said about ingratitude, but
oii.F 10 arise from the idea of going to Philadelphia; the
. ' r \a y ""hen Baltimore was proposed, it was readiiy agreed
V;° n j nothing was said about ingratitude. What has Philadc/'-
a onr, r lat thecharge of ingratitude must be reiterated againtt
hZfi Whfnevcr ,hat city is mentioned. With refpeft to the
1 ings remaining > monument of their ingratitudrt, he begged
it,- 10 • that so far from this, it would remain a mouumcnl of
11patriotifm and public spirit of the city.Saturday, july, 17
report of the committee to which was referred (.lie P, tiiion
as the Clerks.in the office of the Paymaftor General of the Army
Accounts, was agreed t», which was in favor of ihe Petitioners.
A bill reported by Mr. Williamfo* yelterdav—for the relief of
Certain disabled soldiers and seamen, late in the service of the
-..ted States,was again read and referred to the committee of the
hole house on Monday. The bill to provide more cffeftiuUy
fc. the cu'.kftion of the Revenue, was read the third time, and
j>;::ed
MONDAY, JULY 19,
The bill making further provision tor the public debt of the
United States, was brought in, engroflcd, and the blauks tilled up.
The time tor the commencement of the ast was fixed at the iirft
day of Januafy next.
l)uty on imported cables, 150 cents
tarred cordagc, 150 do. f f ut ev ery 1.1 lb.
untarreddo. and yarns, 100 do. f
twine and pack-thread, 400 do. j
' The blanks being filled up the qneftion was, (ball this bill pass ;
oi> this,
t Mr. Sedgwick called for the ayes and noes, which are as sol-
low
MefTrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Bloodworth, Brown, Burke, Cadwal
lader, Carroll, Clymer, Coles, Contee, Fitzfimons, Floyd, Gil
*nan, Hartley, Heifter, Huntington, Jackson, Livermore, Law
rancc, Midilon, Mathews, Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Page, Parker,
R«ife l laer, Seot, Seney, Sevier, Sherman, Sylvelller, Sinmckfmv,
Steele, Sturges,Sumptcr,Tucker, W*U»amfca r W -y»w
koop. 40. NOES.
MefTrs. Ames, Benfon, Foster, Gale. Gerry, Goodhue, Grout,
Leohard, Partridge, Scdgwick, Smith(M.) Smith (S. C.) Thatcher,
Tiuinbull, Wadfworth. 15.
Mr. Madison of the committee of conftrence on the bill to re
gulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes from which
the Senate had proposed to strike out the 4th fe£li®n, and which
amendment the house had difagrced to, reported on behalf of the
committee, that the House should recede from their difagree
grcement—it was moved that the House should accept this report
and recede ; thequeftion being put, it palled in the affirmative.
In Committee of the whole on the bill for the relief of disa
bled soldiers, fcamen, and certain other persons late in the service
©f the United States. Mr. Senev in the chair.
The committee went through the difcuflion of the bill and a
«Teed to sundry amendmeuti ; they then rose and reported the
fame to the House.
The bill being further amended, it was ordered that it lie on the
Table till to irorrow.
Jn committe of the whole on the bill u to enable the officers
and soldiers of the Virginia line of the late army on Continental
eftablilhment —to obtain titles to certain lands on the North-Weft
of the Ri'er Ohio—bet ween the big Miami and Scioto.
The committee reported the bill without : And it
•was ordered to be cngrofled for a third reading tomorrow.
In committee of *he whole, on the bill to aicertainthe tees and
perquisites to which the Conftils and Vice-Consuls of the United
States shall be entitled —some progress was made in the difcuifcon,
•when the committee and asked leave to fit again.
A meflage was receded from the Senate, informing the Hou f e
that they have passed an a£t to amend the ast lor the eftabiilhing
and support of Light Houses, Beacons and public Piers
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, JULY 20
Mr. Giltnanof the jo\nt eommitte reported, that the three fol
lowing enrolled bills had been examined, andrtound correct,\\7.
An Ast to provide foi. holding treaties and to eltablilh peace with
Certain Indian tribes therein mentioned. An Ast to amend the
Ast for the eftablilhing and sup porting light houie*,beacons, buoys,
and public piers ; and An Ast to, KguUte tiade and intercom fe
-v- if h the inflian tribes.
w *The biTTToTTiaLb'» '?>r officci* o«.«i \*+a wiyw.
oTthe late army, oiT^onlmental F.lHbliihmems to obtain cities to
Hnds in the territory North Weft of the Ohio, was brought in
•engrolfcd, read the third time and pafltd.
A nicffagc wit received from ihe Piefident of the United States,
informing, iliat the Act iirooiiug duties on tonnage; and tht-Ad to
p'ovidctor the regulation and government ot leamen in llie iri( r
chams' femce, both of v. hich originated in the houle, had receiv
ed In? affi-nt.
Incommitt« of the whole od the bill »o eltahUft these'? »nd
perqtrlitet ot the Consuls and Vice-Cpnfuls ot the United States,
in foreign parts.
Oil motion of Mr. Madison a proviso was added,
the President of the United S.aies to appoint one or more consuls
on the, coast ot B-irbary a: a salary of 2OCO dollars per annum.
The committee having-finifhecl the difcoflion of the bill, and
agteed to iundry amendments rose and reported the fame.
These were taken intoconftdcration by the House, and the bill
further airendid ; it was then ordered that it be engrofled for a
thira reading to-morrow —leveral petitions Were read and refer
red. Adjourned.
fyT The 13M, 14M and 15M lints of Mr. White's fpeteh in car
IjJI, ought to read thus, " A line front the Atlantic, Ed/t and Weji, to
'■ the extreme foiitt, mentioned in the bill, wtil interjed the Stute oj
•' Mew-jerfey,include the whule of Delaware and Maryland, and will
'■ throw %\Tnemhrs of the repr'jentatitn in the Jcuthern divijtun oj
,4 the United States.'*
THE TABLET. No. CXXXIII.
" It ettmibf mfly be determined, whether the world
derives ntujl advantage from a great and virtuous mart,
before or after his death."
r I ""HOUGH 1 do not concur in the prevailing
X opinion, t hat we crtn form a julter idea of
the characters of persons after death, than while
they are living, 1 am nevertlielefs perl'uadcd that
rhe anions and virtues of worthy men should be
faithfully recorded and warmly celebrated.—
While a man lives, innumerable causes conspire
ro give atl improper coloring to his conduct.—
'J?he foibles and defe&s, interwoven in the lives
of men, spread a shade over their virtuous qua-
Sities, which obfeures their luitre and weakens
theforce of example. There is notaareat propor
tion of mankind, whose reputationftands so high
ssit deserves. But when the scene closes, and a
wan is no more to appear on the stage of human
affairs,'his enemies are scattered, and every source
of hatred and competition is annihilated. His
friends and relations draw the portrait, and give
it a most lively gi«w of perfediion. Thus'his
condtuft is exhibited as a model topofterity, while
his cotemporaries beheld it veiled with follies and
imperfections. Ic is however of admirable adr
■vantage that more fnifhed pi'fture 4 (houhl b«
AYES.
formed through the aid of imagination, than ex.
iil in real life.
Perhaps no circumstance Simulated the Romans
more vigorously to such virtues as they practised,
than the fame of their illustrious ancestors. This
was preserved in the image of their predeceflors
which were hung in the most conspicuous places
to catch the eye, and impress the most eager de
sire to imitation. The virtue of one generation
was transfufed intofeveral, and the original cha
rafter of that nation retained some of its leading
traits, even to its low stages of degeneracy. The
view of those venerable bu/los awakened a fpiri.
of heroism, at lead so far as to applaud the gen
erous actions of their forefathers. It cannot be
material in what mode the memory of illustrious
men is preserved. Bulls and Statues make per
haps stronger impreflions than historical records.
And as the object is rather to inspire the heart
with a general love of virtue, than to instruct us
in the details of our conduct, I (hould suppose
the force of example is more strongly alluring,
when <ve behold the image, than when we examine
the history of antient worthies. The latter of
these modes however is indispensable For other
reasons than touching the heart; but they both
i contribute to perpetuate the utility, and reward
the labors of great and virtuous characters.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FABLE.
THERE was a time—(no matter when,
Some fay 'twill soon return again)
When Leo, King of beads arose,
And dub'd his faithful fubjetts foes-
Spread devailation far and near,
Fire in the front—death in the rear;
The peaceful tenants of the wood,
B) blood and carnage thus purfu'd,
Combind their force in federal bands,
And drove the murd'rers from their lands 3
The commonwealth to peace reftor'd,
And made the tyrant (heathethe sword.—
But now relieved from foreign dangers.
They on each other fcowl'd like strangers ;
Quarrel'd about each other's quota,
Nor car'd for credit an iota—
And having gain'd their independence,
All sense of common justice fend hence ;
Kick'd faith and honor out of dodrs,
And plung'd the state in civil wars;
Till tir'd with party's iron rei^n,
They wifh'd old Leo's paw again.
FROM A LOVDOM'PAPER
Things apparently the most infignificant and
useless in thenifelves, may be converted to pur
poses of a very beneficial nature, and may be ser
viceable both in manufaiflures and hulbandry.
Thus oyster and cockle (hells, when pulverized
by an inftrunient tor that purpose, which is fre
qitfftltly "»• -ppgfls—6i
and America, become 4 far better manure for
some kinds of land, mixed wirh lime, than per
haps any father whatever. On Long Island, near
New York, thfcy make a kind ef porcelain of
cockle fliells, after being ground and made into
a compoll, that is very pleafnig to the eye, and
large quantities are fabricated every year. The
common feathers of our do medic fowl are now
ingeuioufly prepare<}, and made into plumes for
the army, whilst the large and handlome feathers
of tnrkies are worked up in imitation of ostrich
plumes. Industry, aided by ingenuity, will find
aid from what had been heretofore deemed ofno
value ; for who indeed at a former period, could
have imagined that flint-ftones, joined to a par
ticular fpecieSof clay, would have formed a kind
of beautiful ware that now excels even the pro
ductions of China, which were once thought ini
mitable, and seemed a secret that would scarcely
ever be discovered by Europeans.
PHILADELPHIA, JULY 14..
While the genius of America is exerting itfelf
in works of hiftory t and science, it is agreeable to
observe, that it is not deficient in works of senti
ment and fancy. The memoirs of the Bloomf
grove family, written by the ingenious Do(fior
Hitchcock, of Rliode-liland, exhibit the 1110 ft
pleasing marks of both, together with many ex
cellent rabral and religious reKe&ions, and some
trnl}'delightful anecdotes. The design of this
work is to recommend a new mode of female e
ducarion, accommodated to the present state of
society and manners in America. No person can
read it vrithotit pleasure, and few persons with
out inftrudlion.
NkW-YORK, 21.
We hear that on the third reading f th« funding bill in the Se
nate yesterday, it was moved to strike out the feftion which pro
vides for tlie'alTumpiion f the Slate Debts—this motion was ne
gatived by a majority of Two.
The question on the pafling this bill it 'sexpccted will be taken
this day
PORTRAIT OF THE PRESIDENT.
The corporation of tnis cii y having agreed that the Portrait of
the President of the United Stales, to betaken by Mr. Trumbull,
ihould be depofifd in the city Hjll—yeftcrdav, at their defi.r
the Mayor wai 'd on the 'P-rfident to request that he would
permit Mr. Tr *♦»/'.>; ttend -n Mm for 'ha- purp >fe.
From accurateit has been found, tnstr
*vichin the last year rhere were manufatfhu ed in
the Commonwealth of Alalfhchuietts upsvards of
tuit thnvfand torn of goods in»"e than tliere was
giade therein in 1773-
531
Col. McGillivray and Chiefs, and
Warriors of the Creek Nation, are expedted to
arrive this day, about 32 o'clock. They are to
embark at Elizabeth-Town point, and land near
the Coffee house. The Chiefs are escorted by
Col. Willet, 6f this city.
A company of grenadiers will parade on the
occasion.
We hearthe SAcicty of St. Tammany will paradcthis day to re
ceive the Monarchs and Warrior* of the Creek Nation.
An Aflociation is Formed at Burlington, New-
Jersey, to promote agriculture and economy, by
abstaining from the use of foreign chtefe, beer,
and porter.
In the Paper Hangings Manufactory of Burrel
Carries, in Philadelphia, which was ellablifhed
last fall, upwards of ten thousand pieces have
been prepared and fold.
The lall accounts from Europe abate the gen
eral expectation of a Spanifli War—to the great
chagrin of who insensible to the dictates
of humanity, wish to atcumulate wealth from the
misery of mankind.
Monday Capt. Blaine in the Ship Margaret ar
rived here in 49 days from Glaigow ; accounts
by this Vefiel are to 24 May—and (late that the
National Aflembly was greatly affected by a de
tail of the lace insurrection at Marseilles
The President waited on the King, to expreft
their furrow at the disturbances in various parts
of the Kingdom —and their Ithanks to his majesty
for the meal'ures taken by him to discover the of
fendeis, and for reparation of the exceflts com
mitted.— A meflage was received by the Aflembly
from the King, informing them that in conse
quence of the warlike preparations of Great-Bri
tain, he had ordered 14 Ships of the line to be
equipped.—Some debate ensued in the Aflembly
on receiving this and the question
"Otisjht the nation to delegate to the Sovereign
the right of makingpeace and war?" was to be
debated the 16 May.
English accounts are very indefinite ; Tome make
war with Spain inevitable—others render that e
vent extremely problematical—Mr. Fitzherbert
is dispatched as Minister to the Court of Ma
drid, this does notlook like war—yet these papers
inform us that theßritifh Fleet will by the firlt of
August amount to 70 fail of the line—and that
the artificers in the dock yards work on Sundays.
Lord Heathfield, the Jape Gen. Elliot, is ap
pointed commander ofGibralcar, and Lord Howe
Admiral of the grand Fleet.—The English ac
counts of French affairs further state that the Na
tional Aflembly is extremely jealous of the Spa
liifh and fufptct that the late alliance
between Spain, Sardinia, Naples, Rnflia, Vienna*
and Venice, has for its object the restoration of
monarchy tn Frairtre — • and: it h farther faii
the Democrats have refufed their consent to fit
ting out the 14 fail of the line, ordered by the
King—that in France matters are growing more;
and more serious and that the fafety of some
crowned heads is more uncertain than lince the
Baftile was destroyed.
ARRH'ALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Brig Vandengeuir, Afeleir, Havre-He-Grace, 49 days.
Ship Margaret, Blain, Glasgow, 49
Schooner Paragon, Birbine,
Sloop Philadelphia Packet, Holden, Philadelphia, 6
Dilligence, Carpenter, Savannah, 8
Sloop Frie'ndftiip, Burnham, Savannah, 8
Fanny, Tillinghurft, Rhode-Island, 1
The IRON WORKS,
BELONGING to the Estate of JAMES HUNTER, deceafcd,
pleasantly situated on the falls of Rappahannock River, with
in two miles of the town of Frederickfburg, and one of Falmouth
and Tide-Water Consisting of a Forge, 130 feet by 54, eight
fires, and four hammer*—a Coal House, 80 feet by 40 —a Slitting
and Rolling Mill, 68 feet by 30, for Sheet, Rolled and Slit Iron.
A Merchant Mill, 70 Feet by 36, with two pair of stones ; one
when of French Burr, and every other rieceflfary apparatus for
manufa&uring Flour in the best method.—A Saw Mill adjoining
rhe fame> 6» feet by 10. The walls of all these biiildidgs are of
stone, extremely strong atid neat, of the best workmanftiip. The
running geers, machinery and fixtures of the whole, commodiouO»
ly and judicioudy contrived* and performed in the moll masterly
and advantageous manner, on Urge and improved plans. The
different departments are conveniently dtfpofed and arranged at
proper distances, on a deep and capacious canal, calculated to
supply more largo and extensive works, and future improvements ;
cautiously secured and guarded against casualties from frefhets, or
high floods ; has its source in the main body of the riv;r ; a co
pious proportion whereof, to ahy reasonable degree of quantity,
is at pi a lure colle&ed and turned in l»y a compleat set of well
cooftru&ed strong dams, which have not broke, or given way,
fmce their formation, near nineteen years paft.—'t'hre head and
fall of the water operating on thfe wheels, is about twenty feet 5
the greatest part of the works are in good repair, and the whole
may be rendered so at a small expence. In the appendages there
,o, a convenient Tanyard, variety of shops and utensils for
mechanical business of different kinds, houses for the Managers*
Workmen, &c.— And about 4 to 8000 acres of land contiguous,
mostly wooded, including some Farms and meadow land. AlJo p
will be offered for sale, a number of valuable Slaves, such as Ham
mermen, Refiners, Colliers, Forge Carpenters, Wheelwrights*
Smiths, Millers, Waggoners, &c. These works have advantage*
over any in America', particularly in refpeft to the sale of their
produce, as there is none of the kind to the southward thereof, to
nod of which extensive, rich and fertile country, there is easy
conveyance b/water J nor is there any Forge within 90 miles,
nor a Slitting mill at all in this State, which might fliare the cus
tom, or vie with us manufactory—feme other peculiar advantag
es that can best be pointed out on the premises, whicii on applica
ion will be (hewn, and the terras of Sale made known, and very
afy for the purchaser, by
ADAM HUNTER, ot > v
ABNER VERNON. $ * xccutors -
Virginia, Mty z 8,1790.
FOR SALE
(3*oN E W-Y ORK, Jirly 1790.
• mc following Bill has been reported by a committee appointed
tor the purpose ; after being read in the House, it was ordered
'o be printed—and :t is underitood that it shall be laid over to
the next feflion, in order that the public sentiment may be ob
tained on the fubjelt.
A BILL more effeiffcually to provide for the na
tional defence, by establishing a uniform Mi
litia throughout the United States.
(Concluded from our lafl.)
Sec. 12. A ND lt father cnaEled % That all fines herein be
fore mentioned, shall be paid by the officer llfuing
said warrant to and lor the purpofc, in the firft instance for pro
viding colours and music to and for the use of the companies of
light infantry, rifle men, artillery and troops of hoifc ; and the
surplus that may remain, to be applied to the like use for the resi
due of tbe militia aforefaid ; and when the said fines fliall arise to
a larger Aim than is neceffaiy for the said uses, the remainder
ihall be applied to the purchasing of arms and accoutrements for
the light infantry and rifle com]* nie.«-.
Sec. 13. And be it further enacted, That all cor»mi(Tioncd of
iicers shall take rank according to the date of their commiflion* ;
and when.two of the fame grade, bear an equal date, then their
rank (hall be determined by lots, to be d:vwn by them before
'he commanding officer of the brigade, regiment, battalion, com
pany or detachment.
S^ - . 14. And be it further enaflcJ, That the commander in chief
or the State, shall on the requisition of the Piefident of the United
Slates, authorised thereto by the express atfs of Congress, order
out an) proportion of the militia oi the State so required as afore
faid, to march to any part of the United States for the protc&ion
or defence of the fame, provided that they be not compelled to
continue on duty out of the State without thcii consent, for a
longer time than months at any one time.—That while
in a&ual fcrvice, in consequence of being so called out, they (hall
jeeeive the fame pay and rations, and be fubjetfc to the fame rules
end regulations as the troops of the United States of America.
Sec. i r t . And be it further That if anv person belonging
to the militia of any State, and called out into service as iforefaid,
be wounded or disabled while in a&ual service in opposing or
fuppreiling any invasion or infurreftion, or in fighting againil any
ot the enemies of the United States, he shall be taken carc of and
provided for at the public expence. without having regard to the
rink such person may hold.
Sec. 16. And be it further enafled, That every person of the age
of eighteen years and under fifty years, who are exempted from
FcrfonaJ fcr'ice in the militia as aforefaid, by the Second fedlion
of th.o a£t all mimfters of religion a&ually having the
charge of a church or congregation ; ail principals, profefPors and
cKher teachers of, together with the ftudeuts in, univerfitirs, col
ors and academies ; all school-mailers squally having the
ct.arge of a school, and all mariners employed in the sea fcrvice
«f any citizen or merchant within the United States as afcrekid)
<ha!l pay an annual tax of two dollar into the public tieafury of
tuc United States, to be applied towards the support of the civil
government thereof, and to becollcacd in the following manner :
Ihecoinmilfionerof the treasury in <ach State, (hall appoint a
refpon.ible person tn every county or tuwnfhip in the State, a*
COi ' aX> w^om commanding olficcr of
each bauaiion (hall cause returns to be made of the names of all
the exempts by virtue of the said fccond fcftion of this ast, with
in the bounds of hii battalion, except as before excepted. That
thereupon each of said exempts being notified thereof by the said
collector shall on the month of may in every year, pay to the said
co rftor the said two dollars ; and in cafe of failure therein, the
collector (hall, within two weeks thereafter, return the names of
the defaulters to the commanding officer of the battalion, who
Ihall thereupon cause them to be enrolled, and they (hall therc
a ter be liable to do militia duty in like manner as other citizens
not exempted by this ast, until the full arrears of the said tax (hall
oepaid into the treasury of the United States. And the said cot-
Ic-ttor Ihall, within oii« mouth after the receipt of the said ta*,
pay the fame to the said commiiTioner, who shall account -there
for with the ti eafury of the United States in like mauiiU and un.
der the fame penalties and forfeitures as he accounts for other
public monies by lliin received ; for all which fcrvices the said
collector (hall be entitled to retain the compcnfation of two and
an half per centum on all the monies collected by him as aforc
laid. And in cafe the said collector (hould neglect or rcfufe to
pay over the (aid monies received b,y him as aforefaid, or any part
(hereof, to the said coinnnflioner, within the time limited as afore
(aid the (aid collector shall foifeit end pay to the use ofihe Uni
ted States, a sum of money equal to double the amount of the
aid taxes, or so much of them as shall remain unpaid ; to be re
covered by the said collector :n his own name, with rofts of suit,
by action ot debt 01 otherwise, in any court wherein the fame
thai! be cognizable. And the secretary of the treasury (hall cause
si) annual re'urn of all the monies received on the said tax, to be
• aid before Congress, at their firft fnTion in evct v year.
S.-f. And be it further enaßed, That each State shall be form,
"d into a diftrift or dillrifts in such a manner as the legifl.ture
.hereof ffiallhy;law dircft. And that therelhallbe appointed by
£ Jl' M Cnt of thc States, an infpeftor for each dill.ift,
who Ihall be a emzen of the State to which such diflrift belongs ;
provided their number ihall not exceed—onetor New-Hainp(hire,
two for Madachufetts.onc for Rhode-liland, one for Connecticut,
one for New-York, one for New-Jersey, two tor Pennfylvama,
one tor Delaware, one for Maryland, three for Virginia, two for
.'m .Carol'" 3 , not for South-Carolina, and one for <Jaor»ia.
And the duty of such idfpeftor shall be 10 attend the regimental
or battalion meetings of the militia on their several parades, du
ring the tune of their being under arms pursuant to this ast, at
Jeattonce in every year, to infpeft their arms, ammunition and
accoutrements ; superintend their cxercife and manoeuvres, and
introduce a lyftem of military discipline throughout the diflnft
agreeably to law and such orders as he (hall from time to time re
ceive from the commander in chief of the State; to furni(h the
forms of the returns that may be required, and explain the prin
ciples on which they (hall be made ; to make returns to the Pre
sent of the United States, at lraft once in every year, of the mi
litia of the Mate, reporting therein thcaftual (ituation of the arms,
accoutrements ana ammunition of the several corps, and everv o-
Iher thing which tn his judgment may relate to their government
and the general advancement of good order and military disci
pline ; a duplicate of such return and report he shall also tr nf
rnit to the commander in chief of the State. And the said in-
Ipettois Ihall have the rank of lieutenant-colonel, and (hall ref
lectively receive from the treasury of ihe United States, as a full
compensation lor all thtir services, the sum of d o |
Jars per annum.
ANECDOTES,.
T H l latcCol -® t^lan Allen had a high opinion
A of himfelf and of his fix brothers, arid said
that there were never seven such born ot any
woman. You millake, said a Scotch officer, Ma.
ry DiJgdalcuc was delivered offcvi,: txatfly like you
atked Garrick what hefliould do with
A a light guinea fling it to the devil, f a y S
Garrick—well, answered Foote, this will do, you
make a guinea go thefarthsft of any man I ever
-knew.
Extratt of a letter from Col. Robert Oliver, t» a gen
tleman in Majfachufetts, dated
Dia» SIR,
" T SHALL endeavour to answer your letter/methodically—and
1 in the Aril place do allure you, the report that we were obli
ged to movcto the city on account ®f the Indians, was every part
thereof falfe, and without the lcail foundation. The Indians have
killed one man, and dole feme horses, which is all the mifebief
they have done on the purchase since my arrival—they appear to be
very friendly and to beir a great regard for the Yankics. as they
tall us.
I lived at the city the firft winter, and in the spring took up my
land at this place, and undertook with three others to build mills,
.vhich we have compleated, and they arc of the fir ft rate. I railed
last season about 100 bufheli of corn, some potatoes, turnips, &c.
I moved my family here last September, and have lived here ever
since—have not been in the leaii disturbed. I have caught near
two barrels of filb, some fuckers, perch, zndpike; ha.c taken
pike here of 241b. they appear to be of the fame kind of the Pick
erel in New-England—l like my situation well, my land is ex
ceeding good. You wi(h to know the Cummer season ; it would
not be worth while to give yon a detail of every day ; let it fuffire
to fay, the summer season appears to be well calculated to nourish
the growth of the fruits of the earth—the weather in the summer
is not warmer as I can pcrceive, than in New-England, but of
longer ouratioti. The bottom land is as heavy timbered in gene
ra), as the beach and rnapje land in Chcfter ; the hills are oak and
hickory, the most beautiful timber for building leverfaw. The
face of the wth is rtot Covered with stone* as in New-England,
but they appear to be in Quarrys, and are difcovcred upon the
fides of hills, and at the fides and bottom of creeks; they ar# almofl,
or entirely, either lime, or frce-ftone ; the free-ftone make as good
£rindftones as the Nova-Scotia stone, and are excellent for build
ing—we have plenty of good clay. The boards the Joiners *fe
are yellow poplar, cherry and black walnut, of which there is great
plenty.
The hills are about one mile from the Ohio, at the mouth of
the Mufkingum, this is not all bottom land, part of it is what we
call second bottom, and part an oak plain. The land at or near
the point is flowed, I believe, oncea year at least, occasioned bv the
water of the Ohio and Mnlkingum overflowing their banks, they
being somewhat low; this is also the cafe with I'ome part of the
bottoms up the Mulkingum ; thrfe bottoms will not bear wheat at
present, (or they are by far too rich, but the plains and hills appear
to be excellent for wheat.
You request .o know bow-many families there is at or nrar Ma
rietta, but of this tam l)f»b!«lo inform you—there are 3 fctile
roents here 1 at Marietta, i down the Ohio, and commences a
bout ta milesfrom Marietta, «Kd continuesfof near 6 miles, there
.IS another at this place of about 16 famffits, tefidesmen who have
liot f,oi their families, and a number of single men—this fettletneut
is about 14 mi Its bv land, b'ut <4 by water, from Marietta. PlO
- the last summer were very' plrtity, flour fold at 2 dollars
per cwt. bacon ?d. and Btf. ptr Ib.'whiflty 35. 6. and 4s per gallon
and a I mo(l every other neeeffary of life Was fold at as low a rate
but provisions are now ktftt and high2-a vast quantity of flqur is
gone down to New-Orleani, f« the mouth ofib'e Miffifippi)_but
although provefions are fcafte T believe we (hall make a rub of it
arid with a common blefling (hall raise this year double the quan
t',V . g r a '" neeeff "y «•>« lupport of the people on the ground
Must clofc my letter by giving you thy rear judgment (and it is
Icrundea partly on reason and partly on Experience) on the differ
ence, between supporting 3 farnily here and with vou. Take
farms of a midltng quality and equal improvements, I can raise «
pounds of pork los beef,., of wool, a y, r d so f common coarfi
cjoth, zlbo. of butter, »Jof bread, and b of all forts i>f vegetables
as easy as you can one in Nejw-England. Believe.me. Sir, Ido not
exaggerate. ,
THi AViHSTtfi
A TRUE STORY.
Written by Dr. Franklin, to his Nephew.
I was a child, at seven years old, my
» » friends on a holliday filled my little pocket
with coppers. I went directly to a (hop where
they fold toys tor children ; and being charmed
with a fouud of a Whiflle that I met by the way, in
the hands of another boy, I voluntarily offered
and gave all my money for one. I then came
home, and went whiffling all over the house
much pleated with my Whijtle, but disturbing all
the family. My brothers and fillers, and cou
lms, understanding the bargain 1 had made, told
me I had given four times as much for it as it was
worth. This put me in mind what good things
I m'ght have bought with the reft of the money
and they laughed at me so much for my folly
that I cried with vexation ; and the reflection gave
me more chagrin than the Whittle gave me plea
sure. r
This however was afterwards of ufetonie, the
imprefTion continuing on my mind, so that often
when I was tempted to buy fo.ne unneceflkry
C^' n f; 1 said V\ n 7^ lf > don't gh; uo much jcr the
nhi (tie y —and 10 I favedniy money.
As X grew up, came into the world, and observ
ed the anions of Men, I thought I met with ma
ny,very many, who gave too much for the Whiflle.
when I fawonetoo ambitious ofcourt favours,
iacrifking his time in attendance at Levees his
r sP°' e j hls liberty,; his virtue, and perhaps his
friends, to attain it, I have said to my Mi, this
man gives too much for his Whi file.
When I saw another fond of popularity, con
ftantlyempJoyjnghimfelf in political bustles, neo
lecting his own affairs, and ruining them by that
Whi/lfe' S ' 11, deed ' fa - vs to ° much for his
If f knew a Miser, who gave up every kind of
comfortable hv,ng, all the pleafu. Eof doing good
and allt^ e . cfteem ofhi» fellow-citizens,
and the joys of benevolent friendfhip, for the
fake of accumulating wealth ; poor man, fays I
ln^' !d P°y to »viuch for ycur Whiflle. '
everv ith * man of facrificing
every laudable improvment of the mind, or of
his fortune, to mere corporeal sensations and
rays '" h ' the P ursuit - Mijiaken
stead of nil r P rovid »"g pam for yourfelf, i n .
If I fccorT'Tfr '°° much f° r >'°ur IVhiflle
finJ r ■ of fine cloathes, fine houses'
■ funirtire, fine equipages, all above his for!
532-
Wot-nuot.May 5,1789.
tune, for which he contracts debts, and en,i i •
career, in prison. Alas ! fays I, he ba; p atd )} m
very dear 9 for his IVhijlle. ar >
When I saw a beautiful sweet-tempered
married to an ill-natured brute <if a hufli J'
WbiJlU ityit ' S> that Jhe^ ' nucl > for a
In ihort, I conceived that great part of the '
series of mankind vrere brought upon th™ T
the falfe estimates they had made of the vajn '
things, and by their giving too much f or ,£1
WhtJHei. lr
CHARLESTON, June 20.
On the 16th of December lalt the firftfs tole.le
the new Coll ege in Edinburgh was laid [>' v ,u
right hon. Francis lord Napier, grand-La
inafon of Scotland.—Twocryltal bottles cat* "
purpose at the glass house of Leith, were den?
lited in the foundation ltone. In one of th r
were put different coins of the prefect rei
each of which being previoully envelope/-''
crystal, m such an ingenious manner, thai rh
legend on the coins could be diftimftly read with
out breaking the crystal. In the other botrl
were deposited seven rolls of vell uni) contain n
a ihort account of the original foundation
prefentftate of the university, together withT
veral other papers, in particular the different
news papers containing advertifementj relative
to the college, &c. and a lift of the names of the
present principal and profeflbrs, alio of theme
sent lord provost and magistrates, and office* 0 f
the grand lodge of Scotland. The bottles beinr
carefully sealed up, were covered with a plate of
copper wrapt In block tin ; and upon the under
fide of the copper were engraved the arms of the
city of Edinburgh, and of the univeifity )ik e
wife the arms of the right hon. lord N*t>ier
grand-master mason of Scotland. Upon the up
per fide was a Latin inferiptio 11.
Treal'ury Department
NOTICE is hercbyg.ieen, th*t Prtpofils will
of the Secretary oj the Tret/try, cjoßdtrdett M
irfujtve, Jor the supply of all rations, witch mcybf.rctmrti tir fu
the UnUedStJetf/JtkefrJl 4a', j
December 1791, bath-days at Ot iSm
herein after mentioned, vu, ,
At any place or places, betwixt Ytrktoun h tkt late if hnMna.
and fort Pitt and at Sort Pitt, - '
""yftoce or places, betwixt Fort Fitt ani Ftrt ItlnUi. a tfr
River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntt/k. ' *'
At any place or places, betwixt Ftrt M'littdk **i AeWUk tfdi 1L
ver Mvjkingvm, and at the wouti of the
A any er places, bttoiixt the mouth of ttfAi&miUj
up the/aid River to the Tvfcarovw, *»i at the Tv fcmmfc MfluM
owr to the Cayoga River,.and dmh tiefaidltYMr U itsmM!"'"
I tne viuucn s The Scieto JUver, ana at the nloufn hfUitJ'Jfd River Scioto
A any place or places, betwixt the month often.toLer,anltk lm^
LIrAT »f the great Miami, ni from tint ti
the Rap-.ds, on the Falls of the Ohio and at the {aid Rapids.
I any place orplaces, betwixt the mouth of th; great Miami, tbifo
Jaid Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the Miami I'iihti,
on lac river of the fame name which empties into Lake Int.
w i ?' ° r P lacts Jrom the rapids of the Ohio, to the month of the
abash, thence up the said Wabcfh to Poll St. Vinctnnts, at Pejt Si. fin
f'ore'defail d"" J a ' d nvcr ><" hc
At anyplace or places, from the mouth of the IVabafh river to tht meuth
oj the itver Ohio.
At any place 0 r places, on the cafi fde of the river MMppi,Jron the
mouth of the Ohio river, to the mouth of the Illinois river.
Villa"'' " f lac "'f Tom the ™«thofthe Miami river to the Mini
Iv/ 1 "n y P hc 'r pl»ces,frnm the Miami Village to Sand Ay, and at
n At a ndfrom Sandujky to the mouth of Cayoga river,
any place cm- places, betwixt Fort Pitt ayd Venango, and at Venttnft.
any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at It fir»/
lllTaLrl a: Prefq'Jfe, and betm* ?r,J>
IJlc and the mouth of Cayoga river.
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any place or places, on tht nut
cieck OTI "I ) J river, by the way of Dig Beaver
At any place or places, on th ( eajl fide of the MiMtpi, bitwtn tht
mouth of the Ohio andthe river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from thefaid river Mar'ot, to the river yam"
inclujive/y. • ° '
At any place o? places from the mouth of the river Tennefee, toOcochap
po or Bear creek, on the said river inctujfvely.
«,rt t. "r- ra !'""' ie required at any placcs, or within other diJlriS'.
notfpceified in these fropofals-.the price of the fume tobe hiretjtcr a S tui
on, betwixt the public ani the contractor.
' he rations to befapplied are to c onfjl of the following articles, vn.
One pound ojbtead or flour,
Otc pound of beef,or jof ap o uud of pork,
Half a jilt of rum, brandy or whr&y.
One quuit offi.it,
Two quarts of vinegar* ( A
rwo pounds of feat), r $ CT ' 100 rations t
One pound of landlcs, )
The proposals muflffccify the lowest price per ration. No credit h re '
! utred ' ALEXANDER HAMILTON\
Secretary ojthe Treafurj.
Creditors of Col. ELISHA SHELDON, of Saliftwji»'f
X hereby notified, That the Subfcribersbeing
teqs of said Siiej. don's estate, will attend to the btt&fr »f
appointment on the firft Monday of Auiuft next, aC th< M* « f
P A v Is ' in f »'d Sa4iA>ury, agreeable to the AAaf***-
y. The intereffc of tht creditors requires tbeir" gttteni
aance - HEZKKIAH FITCH. ) T fl ifttf»-
JOHN BIRD, . >
Salt/bury, (Connecticut/, June 28, 1789.
The Mail,, Diligence,
L tl FOR PHJt A DEL PHI A,
EA\ E-S the 1 crry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten m.nutes a ' ler
Fight o'clock every morning except Sunday.
Office, City Tax'>
D, pad-Way, A' eW - Yo,k June .5, , 79c. \
ij-3" it ANTED A'<j. 70 and 8 ' e?this filter —Six i'ence al **
be paid Jut thtm { v the li'tm.