off
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENXO, No. 41. BROAD-STREET, NEA.
[No. 25, (/VOl. ll.j
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA. No. XII.
Think We, like Come weak. Prince, th' eternal cause
Prone, ior his favV.tes, to revei fe his laws ?
EMULATION, which is imitation and some
thing more—a desire not only to equal or
resemble, but to excel ; is so natural a move
ment of the human heart, that wherever men are
to be found, find in whatever manner allbciated
or connected, we fee its effedts. They are not
more affected by it, as individuals, than they are
in communities. There are rivalries between
every little society in the fame city—between fa
milies and all the connexions by consanguinity
and affinity—between trades, faculties, and pro
fedions—between congregations, pariflies and
churches—between schools, colleges, and univer
sities—between districts, villages, cities, provin
ces and nations.
National rivalries are more frequeutly tlie cause
of wars than the ambition of ministers, or the
pride of kings.—As long as there is patriot!l\n,
there will be national emulation.vanity and pride.
It is national pride which commonly stimulates
kings and ministers.—National fear, apprehen
iionof danger, and the neceflity of felf defence,
is added to such rivalries for wealth, considera
tion and power. The fafety, independence, and
evidence of a nation, depends uporvkeeping up,
an high sense of its own honor, dignity and pow
er in the hearts of its individuals, and a lively
jealousy of the growing power and aspiring am
bition of a neighboring State.—This is well il
lustrated in the Political Geography, publilhed
in our Hewfpapers from London, within a few
weeks. " The jealouiies and enmities, the al
liances and friendfhips, or rather the combina
tions of different States and Princes, mightalmolt
be learned from a map, without attention to
what has parted, or is now palling in the world.
Next neighbors are political ewuiw • State' l*e
-.veen which a common neighbor, and tlierelore
common enemy intervenes, are good friends,
in this refpecl Europe may !>e compared to a
chefs board, marked with the black, and with the
•white spots of political discord and concord.—
Before the union between England and Scotland,
a frietidlhip and alliance fubiilted for
between the latter ofthefe kingdoms and France,
because they was both inimical to England. For
a like reason, before a Prince of Bourbon, in the
beginning of the prefant celitury, was raised to ,
the Spanilh throne, a good underltanding fubfilt- j
ed for the mod part, between England and Spain, ■
and before the late alliance, there was peace and
kindnels, with little interruption, for the space
of centuries, between England and the Emperor.
An alliance has long fubfiited betweed the French
and the Turks, 011 account of the intervening do
minion ofthe Auftrians. The Swedes were long
the friends of France, on account of the inter
vention of Holland and Denmark—and because
Sweden the friend of France, wasfituatedin the
neighborhood of the Ruilian territories, a friend
ship and commercial intercourse was eftabliihed,
from the very firft time that Muscovy appears on
the political theatre of Europe, between England
and Ruflia. It is fuperfluous to multiply inltan
aes of this kind. All past hiitory and present
observation will confirm the truth of our poiition
—which, though very fiinple, is like all other
simple truths, of very great importance—for,
however, the accidental caprices and paiiions of
individual Princes, or their mini Iters, may alter
the relative dispositions and interests of nations
for a time, there is a natural tendency to revert
to the alteration already described. We have
been led into these reflections by the treaty of
fenfive and defenfive, that has been formed be
tween Sweden, Pruflia, and the Sublime Porte
—between Pruflia and Holland— ; and the report
■which is verp probable, Hiat a treaty ofFenfive »nd
defenfive is 011 the point of being concluded be
tween Turkey and Poland. In this chain of al
liances we find the order of the chefs-board ad
hered to, in some inftences, but palled over in
others- It is observed there should. be an alli
ance between RuiJia and Sweden—and also that
there should be an alliance between Poland and
Turkey, because Rufiia intervenes between Tur
ky and Sweden, and Hungary between Turkey
and Poland—but that there fliould be an alliance
between Poland and Prussia is owing to particu
lar and accidental circumrtances. The two for
mer alliances may therefore be expected to be
laftmg—the latter to be only temporary and pre
WEDNESDAY, JULY 7, 1790
carious. In general the chain of alliance, that
is formed or forming, among the Swedes, Prus
sians, Poles, Dutch, Turks, and we may fay the
English, is amoft linking proof, of the real or
supposed flrength and influence of the two im
perial courts of Rulßa and C'ermany."
The writer of this par* ■ . • might have added
the alliance between Engi.uH'. and Portugal, and
that between the United Sta. <s of America and
Krance. The principle of all these examples is
as natural as emulation, and as infallible as the
lincerity of interelt. On it, turns the whole fyf
tem of human affairs. The of 1 776 were
fully aware of it. With no ftnall .degree of ve
hemence, was it urged, as a,n argument for the
declaration of Independence . With confidence
and firmnefs was it foretold, that Krance could not
avoid accepting the propositions that should be
made to lier; that the Court of Versailles could
not answer it, to her own fubjetls, and that all
Europe would pronounce her blind, 1011, and un
done, if Ihe rejected so fair ar opportunity of dif
embarrafling herfelf, from the danger of so pow
erful and hostile a rival, wiitfe naval fuperiori
ity held all her foreign dominions, her maritime
power, and commercial interelt, at mercy.
But why all this of Emulation and Rivalry ?—
Because, as the whole history of the civil wars of
France, given us by Davi/a, is no more, than a
relation of rivalries, fuccejdlng each other in a
rapid series, the reflec r tions we have made will
aflift us, both to utiderftand that noble hiftjrian,
and to form a l ight judgment of the state of af
fairs in France at the prefl?fit moment. They
will fugged also to Jw'ri am. efpeciallyto those
who have been unfriendly, an<l may be vtovv luke
warm to their national Constitution, some ufeful
enquiries, such as these for exam pies. Whether
there are not emulations, of a serious complex
ion among ourselves ? betwe 11 cities and univer
fi:ie= ? between North nad \*'uch ? The middle
and the North ? The middle and the South ?
between one State and another? between the go
vernments of States and the National govern
ment ? and between individual patriots and he
roes in all these What is the natural remedy
against the inconveniencies and dangers of these
rivalries ? Whether a well-balanced Conftitu
tion —such as that of our Union purports to be,
ought not to be cordially supported, till its de
feats, if it has any, can be corrected, by every
good citizen as our only hope of peace, and our
ark of fafety ? — But it lhall be left to the contem
plations of our State Physicians to discover the
causes and the remedy of that "fiver, -whereof
cur poio?r is sick." One question only shall be
refpetitfully insinuated : Whether equal laws,
the result only of a balanced government, can
ever be obtained and preserved without some signs
or other and degree ?
We are told that our friends, the National As
fembly of France, have abolished all diilintflions.
But be not deceived my dear countrymen. Im
portibilities cannot be performed. Have they le
velled all fortunes, and equally divided aJI pro
perty ? Have they made all men and women e
qually wife, elegant, and beautiful ? Have they
annihilated the names of Bourbon and Montmo
rency, Rochefaucalt and Noailles, la Fayette and
la Moignon. Neckar and de Calonne, Mirabeau
and Bailey ? Have tliey committed to the flames
all the records,annals,and histories of the nation ?
All the copies of Mezerai, Daniel, de Thou,
Veilly, and a thousand others i Fa\e they burned
all their pidlures, and broken all their statues ?
Have they blotted out of all memories, the names,
places of abode, and illustrious a<slionsof all their
ancellors ? Have they not still Princes of the firft
and second order, Nobles and Knights ? Have
they 110 rccord nor memory who are the men,
who compose the present National Aflembly ?—
Do they wish to have that diftintflion forgotton ?
Have the French officers who served in America
melted their Eagles, and torn their ribbons i
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ADDRESS of the NATIONAL ASSEMBLY to the
PEOPLE of FRANCE.
February nth, 1790.
(CONTINUED.)
SUCH, people of France, is the profpedt of
happinefsand glory which is opened before
you ! Some steps yet remain to be taken, and it
is here where the detra&ors of the revolution
OK<pe& to surprize you. Be on your guard against
513
THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
an impetuous vivacity ; oppose all violence, for
every difordor may be fatal to liberty. You
cherish this liberty, you are in poflcflion of it at
this moment : fiiew yourselves worthy of pre
fervingit ; be faithful to the spirit, to ihe letter
of the decrees of your representatives, ac
cepted or finftioned by the King ; distinguish
carefully between the duties tha: are abolish
ed beyond redemption, -and the redeemable
duties yet existing. That the former be no
longer exadtcd,but that the latter be not refufed.
Think on the three sacred words which guaran
ty these decrees : The Natiau,t\\e Laui, the King.
The Nation is yourselves, the Law is still your
selves, it is your will : The Km* is the guardian
of the L avj. Whatever falfhoods may be propa
gated, rely on this union, They have formerly
deceived the King, they would now wi(h to de
ceive you. The King's goodnels is afilirted at
it : he wiflies to prefcrve his people from flatter
ers whom he has removed from his throne ; he
will defend the cradle of his son against tliem ;
for, in the niidft of youy t he has
declared that he will make the heir of the crown
the guardian of the constitution.
Let them speak no longer to you about; two
parties. There is but one ; we have all (worn
it; it is that of liberty. Its victory is sure, at
tested by the conquelts which daily multiply.
Let obscure blasphemers circulate reproaches and
calumnies againit us ; but, only reflect that if
they praised us, France would be undone. On
ly take care not to revive their hopes by mifcon
dueft, by disorders, or bv forgetting the laws.
Observe, how they triumph at l'ome delays in tbe
collection of the duties. Do not prepare a cruel
joy for them ! llefletft that this debt—No ! It is
no longer a debt ; it is a sacred tribute, and it is
the country that now receives it for you and
jour children ; who will no longer leave it at
the niercy of depredator? vvho would have drain
ed the public trcafury, but have it 110 longer in'
their power. They wished for calamities which
the magnanimous bounty of the King has ren
dered iinpofiible. People of France, second your
King by a firm and immoveable xefpedt for the
laws, defend his liappinefs, his virtues and his
true glory ; (how him that he never had any
other enemies than those who were enemies 10
liberty—fl-.ow him that for liberty and for him,
your constancy will equal your courage ; that
you will never be weary, and will be ever inde
fatigable in support of that liberty, of which lie
is the guardian. Your relaxation was the lalt
hope of the enemies of the revolution ; they
have lolt that hope : groans; and
deplore, without hating, this last weaknels, this
wretchedness of humanity. Let us find out, let
us plead some excuses in their favor. Consider
the numberless caufcs that might prolong, sup
port, and almolt perpetuate their illusion.
What ! is not some time requisite to obliterate
from their memory, the phantoms of a long
dream, the dreams of a long life ? Who can tri
umph in an instant over the habits of the mind,
the opinions inculcated in infancy, supported
by the exterior forms of society, a long time fa
vored by the public servitude, whicli wa3 thought
eternal, dear to a kind of pride which was im
posed as a duty, in ftjort, placed under the pro
tection of personal interest, which was flattered
in foinany ways. To lose all at once these illu
sions, these hopes, these dearly cherished ideas,
a part of their fortune ; is it in the power of ma
ny men to be able to do it, without some regrets,
without efforts, without resistance, at firft natu
ral, and which a falfe honor afterwards imposes.
If among this class, heretofore so favored, some
fliould be found, who cannot submit to so many
lodes all at once, be generous ; recolletft that in
this very class there are men, who have dared
to elevate themselves to the dignity of citizen,
intrepid defenders of your rights, and in the bo
fotn ot their families, opposing to theirtendereft
sentiments, the noblest enthufiafmof liberty.
Lament, people of France, the blind vj&ims of
fa many deplorable prejudices ; but under the
empire of laws, let the word vengeance be no
more pronounced. Courage, perseverance, ge
nerosity, the virtues of liberty , we expeift them
from you in the name of this sacred liberty, the
only conquest worthy of man, worthy Of you, by
the facrifices you have made for it, by the vir
tues which are intermixed with the ineonveni
cnces inseparable from a great revolution : Do
not delay, do not dishonor the faireltwork,which
to '
[Whole No. 129-]tile annals of tlie World have tranfmiited to ws.
What have you to fear ? Nothing, no, nothing
but a fatal impatience ; yet, a few moments —
It is for liberty ! You have given so many ages to
despotism ! Friends, Citizens, a generous pati
ence, in the place of servile patience. In the
name of the country —you have one now ; in the
name of your King—you have a King ; he is
your's : no longer the King of foine thonfandsof
men; but the King of Frenchmen—of evejy
Frenchman. How mult he now despise despotism !
How must he hate it ! King of a free people,
how must he recollect the errors of those deceit
ful illusions maintained by his Court, who called
theinfelves his people ! Prejudices scattered round
his cradle, comprehended designedly in the roy
al education, and which they have at all times
endeavoured to instil into Kings, to make their
errors, the patrimony of the Court. He is your's:
how dear is he to us ! Since his people have be
come his court, would you.refufe hi in the tran
quility and happiness he merits ? Let him no
more hereafter hear of those violent I'cenes,
which have so much afflicted his heart ; let him
find, on the contrary, that order revives, that
property is everywhere respected and defended ;
that you receive, that you place under the pro
teitionof the law, the innocent, the culpable—
the culpable, there is none, unless the kw pro
nounces thein such. Let your virtuous monarch
fee some of those generous traits, those n >ble ex
amples, which hare already illustrated the cradle
of French liberty. Aftonilh him by your viitues,
give him the reward of his own, by hastening
the moment of public tranquility and the fight
of your happiness.
As for us, purfuiugour laborious talk, devoted,
confecrared to the great work ofthe constitution,
your work as well as our's, we will terminate it,
alii (ted by all the wifdorn of France, and over
coming every obllacle- Satisfied with our con
sciences, in the conviction and anticipation of
your approaching happiness, we will place in
your hands this sacred deposit of the constituti
on, under the guard of new virtues, whose feeds
implanted within yourbrealls will spring up, at
the firft dawn of liberty
Jurf.aux Dr Pussy, Prefidoit.
Labor hdd Mtrveille,
At by Expilly, •
Vijiount de Noailles, ! Secre-
Cuillotin, j taries
Baron ck Marguerites,
Marquis de la Cofte,
(Signed)
LONDON, April 1
TO eonfole the declining hours of Gen. W a shi ncto.v, he can
refkft with triumph, that he receives, at this moment,fimilar
honors to thof paid to Tmotcan by the people of Syracuse, after
he had rescued them from Dionyfius :—His voice in the AflVm
bly of the States, is always followed by an undivided Vote !
Extrafl of a Letter from the Cure of Sr. Paul, concerning the Widow
and Children of the Marquis de Fav r as.
On the 2d of Marcn I passed the d:iy with Madame de Fav
i as, a visit I was led to pay from a motive of pity, and a desire
to offer such consolations to her as were in my power.—-She sent
for her son—" Behold," said (he lo him, " our Pastor, he who
received tie last fentiinents of your father, he who received his
last sighs ; —beg of him to adopt you for his son, and by that ast
to foften the affli&ion of having 101 l the tendered of fathers."—
The child •conded the demand of the mother, and, by his inno
cent exprtflions, affe£led me extremely. On the heart of the dif
tonfolate mother his behavior had a ftili stronger effett : her tears
flowed in abundance, flie took my hand, and said, "-If the prayer
of my son is not powerful enough to determine you, let the tears
of the mod unhappy of widows prevail—refufe me not, I am earn
ed in this request.'* In fine, i promised, and this adoption shall
be to me a fecred duty ; —it shall be one of the sweetest obliga
tions of my life, if God grants me the power of becoming the
eonfoler oi ihe widow,*and the tutor of the ionofM. de FaVras."
The method mentioned in the papers by which
an impreflion of the key to the Iron chest at D'Au
fcigny's was obtained, is a known praiflice ainongrt
the ill-disposed, and can with certainty be per
formed in one minute on the moll intricate and
secure locks that can poflibly be.conftrudted 011
the principle offixed wards, and is an evil which
art hath not yet found means to defeat, in locks
fabricated on that fyftein. It may therefore be
acceptable to the public to acquaint them, that a
pamphlet has lately palled through our hands
entitled, "A Diflertation on the conftrmflion of
Locks, by Joseph Braman, Engine maker, of Pic
cadilly," wherein is adefcription of a lock, which
bids defiance to the practice above alluded to, and
also every other effort that is in the power of hu
man ingeniiity to invent. The contrivance is
liinple, yet pofleffes all the properties eflential to
inviolable security
A LaplanJar, has lately arrived in the metropo
lis, who proposes to furnifh the Lords of the Ad
miralty with proper winds, upon any future oc
casion. This ingenious foreigner, it is said, has
rnade federal experiments, and has feceived so
much praise from their Lordftiips, that he means
shortly to obtain a Patent, after which he will ex
hibit his various winds to public infpecftion in
the house where Dudley Broadjlreet formerly
went into a pint bottle
PARIS, March 10.
General Paoli, on his way to Corsica, arrived
here. He was received at once into the Constitu
tional Club ; and on the eighth instant, was pre
fenied to the King.
April, 15
LAWS OF THE UNITED SIAUS.
PUBLISHED
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THC SECOND SESSION.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fourth
of January, one thousand seven hundied and ninety.
AN ACT providing the Means of intercourse
between the JJuited States and foreign Na-
tions. -
BE it enafled by the Senate <n d Houjc of Representatives of the United
StJtes of America tn Congrcfs afftmblea % That the President ol
the United States shall be, and he hereby is authorised to draw
from the treasury of the United States, a lum not exceeding forty
thousand dollars annually, to be paid out of the monies arinng
from the duties on imports and tonnage, for the support of luch
pei sons as he (hall com mi (Hon to serve the United States in fo
reign parts, and for the expence incident to the business in which
they may be employed : Provided, That exclusive ot an outfit,
which (hall in no cafe exceed the amount of one year's full salary
to the minister plenipotentiary or charge des affaires to whom
the fame may be allowed, the President shall not allow to any
minister plenipotentiary a -greater sum than at the rate of nine
thousand dollars per annum, as a compensation for all his per
sonal services and other expences ; nor a greater sum for the lame
than four thousand five hundred dollars per annum to a charge
des affaires; nor a greater sum for the fame, than one thousand
three hundred and fift} dollars per annum to the Secretary of any
minister plenipotentiary : 'And provided a/Jo, that the President
(hall account fpecifically for all such expenditures of the said mo
ney as in his judgment may be made public, and also for the a
mount of such expenditures as he may think it advifeable not to
fpecify, and cause a regular statement and account thereof to be
laid before Congress annually, and also lodged in the proper of
fice of the treasury department.
And be it fwrther That this ast shall continue and be in
force for the space of two years, and from thence until the end
of the next feflGon of Congress thereafter, and no longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Houfc of Reprejentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States.
and President of the Senate.
Approved, July the first, 1700.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
AN ACT to fatisfy the Claims of John M'Cokd
againfl: the United States.
BE it enabled by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Uni
ted States ojAmerica \ * longref sjfernkled, That there be paid
to John M'Cord, out of the duties a riling on impoftand tonnage,
the sum of eight hundred nine dollars seventy-one cents, being
the amount of iiis account the United States, as fettled and
admitted by the Auditor and Comptroller of the Trcafury, on a
bill of exchange dated the;£th of August in the year of our Lord
one thousand seven hundred and seventy-six, drawn in Canada for
fupplirs by General William Thompson, General William Irvine,
and other officers, in favor of William Pagan, on Meflieurs Mere
dith and Clymer of Philadelphia—and the further sum of five hun
dred dollars, in full of all his claims and demands againit the
United States, as well for lands and rations granted by fcveral re
solutions of Congress, to Canadian fufferers, as on any othci ac
count whaifoever.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Mice-Preft dent ofthe United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, July the first, \*rqo.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident of the United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
An ACT for the relief of Nathaniel Twin
inc.
BE itenaßei by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of Americt, in Congress ajjembled. Thai the penalty, a
mounting to five hundred and sixty-seven dollars and forty one
cents, incurred by Nathaniel Twining for a failure, in neglecting
to transport the mail between Charleston and Savannah, from the
month of September one thousand seven hundred and eig'nty-feven,
until the firft of January one thousand seven hundred and eighty
eight, puifuant to a contract made with the late
neral, (hall be, and the fame is hereby remitted.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG.
Speaker oj the House oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejident of the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, July the first, i7qo.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Piejident of the United States.
(True copy.J
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary ojState.
THE TABLET No. CXXIX
'• A pott is an enthkfaj} injefl, and an entbufiaft is I
a poet in good earnest."
ENTHUSIASM denotes a bold, independent
mind. It not only dares to disown the re
itraints of laws and ceremonies ; but difdtuns to
lilten to the voice of reason, or to observe the
rules of prudence. There is no doubt, a natural
propensity in the mind of every perlbn to be
more or less of an euthufiaft. Those who disco
ver the feweft traces of such a character may Hill
have had as strong an original bias to it, as others
in whom the impulses are more lively and glow
ing. The difference between them may partly exist
in natural conftitution,but it is more the effect of a
different set of habits acquired in education orbv
their not having had equal advantages in miner",
ling with rational, enlightened society. Tlie?e
have been good as well as bad consequences re
| fulting to mankind from the effufions of an enthu
aaltic temper. We commonly use it, rather as a
514
ATES.
tertrt of reproach than applause, but ftriftly speak;
ingjt does not convey either. I call every man
an enthufialt who entertains a belief in any point,
either of religion, politics, bufmefs, literature
qr pleasure, itronger than the general fenl'e of
Unprejudiced, people will authorize. If the read
er conceives this definition is coo loose, I will
thank him to qualify it to his own liking. Men
may fix their attention upon foine particular ob<
jeCi, pei haps accidentally in thefirft inltaiice.anil
by contemplating too intensely upon it, theij;
minds cherish an extravagant idea wt its import'
ante. They ryike the warmth of their feelings
in its favor, a criterion ( by which to judge ofiis
excellence. It lies iippermolt ill their thoughts,
and becomes, in an high degree their darling
hobby-horse. They control none of its motion*
and obey all its impulses. But we mult not too
soon or too severely pals our censure upon Inch
a conduift. It will be found that many of the
moftufeful institutions that exilt in the world,
and many of the molt falucary reformations tliat
have been accomplilhed, owe their origin I'olely
to efforts, (liniulated by the ardor of eiuhufiafin.
Customs and opinions that have been longelta
blilhed not only acquire common consent in their
favor, but the whole dexterity of the reafouiug
faculty is employed 111 framing fpecions arguments
for theirfupport. Some warm headed man dif
fers from the general sentiment and cjills it er
ror, while he feels a conviction that he is fpeci'
ally illuminated, and pretends that his feelings
are the infallible tell of truth. Hisjbelief is irre
fiftable to himfelf, nor can it be broken by the
remonltrances of reason, or the pungency of ri
dicule. If he cannot clearly explain his ideas, he
is (till prefinnptuoofly confident they are right.
He may perhapsdraw other people into lomere
fledtion 011 the-matter, even while they call it a
delusion. If however the point in quefrionfliould
prove nothing more than the suggestions of an
overheated fancy, the fervor of the enthusiast
will soon fublide and his projeift fink into oblivi
on. But if he is pursuing a track which reason
can finally juftify, though it was not consulted at
the origin, he may gain foine worthy adherents
and perhaps succeed in carrying his objecft into
full efFed:.
Men of an ardent, refilefs spirit may fancy
they have made some new discoveries oftruth, in
religion or natural philosophy. The firft tracer
of fucli a belief may bee too indefinite to be des
cribed, but they impel the mind into purfuitswitli
irredftable forcc. The person under fnchvi
gerous imprelfions talks incoherently, and in a
manner unintelligible to every one but him felt
but lie cannot readily be diverted from the te:;
dency of his intpulfe. When he goes into com
pany he introduces his favorite topic, and won
ders how people can listen lo coldly to the supe
rior light of his conversation. In (horr his nimd
is conjured up into an irrefragable belief that his
projedlis practicable and important, and his lee
lings are so invigorated, that his language as
sumes the mod extravagant licence of poetry.
The poor man, however with all his zeal and ex
ertions may turn out unfortunate. Inthecouri'e
of his pursuits he may accidentally strike out
light which some cooler mind discerns, and takes
the buftnefs up a new with honor and success.
One prejedtor after another may in this manner
furnifh the world with new and important disco
veries. Science and morality may progress to an
higher state ot perfection ; when there will be
less occasion for theboldnefs of enthnfiafui to let
projedis on foot, as there will be less ignorance
and prejudice to oppose rational attemps at im
provement.
CHARACTER of \hi KING of SWEDEN.
THIS Monarch is generally allowed to be one
of the most amiable and popular Princes in
Europe. He has a particular gift to gain the
heart of every one. His conversation in public
is full of wit, politeness, and a kind attention to
make every one easy—in private, he speaks with.
the cordiality and simplicity of a friend -He
grants favors with apparent fatisfacftion to him
l'elf—and knows how to refufe without giving
nneafinefs.
His clemency is founded on his great sensibi
lity, which could never yet permit him to puni'h
with death or infamy any one personally known
to him. He has often wished that he might ne
ver unavoidably be forced to such an ast of fe-'
verity,becaufe the remembrance would ever make
him unhappy. It may be said that he in
herits his father's heart, with the genius of his
mother. Had he been a private man, he would,
have made his fortune either in the line of po
litics or literature.
His knowledge in liiftory and diplomatics is
prodigious—his public speeches in the Diets, and
upon other occasions, have an uncommon force
and elegance, worthy of such a speaker—and se
veral plays he has composed for the newly con
stituted National Stage, are of a richness in their
composition, and purity in their morals, that be-
Ipeak the Prince and the Legislator. Notwith
standing all the pains he had taken |to prevent
being known as the author, it soon became nofe
cret that they were from the pen of Majesty-translated
[OR TftE GAZETTE OF THE UNITEt) StATES.
FROM THE LEYDEN GAZETTE
Publiflied by Stephen Luzac.
£A Paper that is considered in Europe astliemoft
authentic medium of intelligence—and as such
circulates more extenfirely than any other
similar publication.]
PARIS ACCOUNTS OF THE a6M FEB. LAST.
THE two parties in the National Aflembly take their feats on
the right and left of the Proficient : The periodical writers
distinguish them by the names of black(uo\ri) and enraged (enrages.)
A memorial was presented to the Aflembly on the i6ih, by the
Keeper of the Seals the Archbilhop of Bordeaux, informing that
feody of the outrages committed at Bczrcrs, with a request from
the King, that the Aflembly would take into consideration some
cffe&ual means to check the like disorders, and to restore public
tranquility.
This memorial occasioned warm debates, the democratic party
exclaiming against pursuing any rigorous measures, and excufmg
the excess.sot the people, whilst the opposite party painted them
in the blackcft folors. The declared friends of liberty, oppoled
likrwiffe to anarchy, 'nforoed their opinions,that the'Conftitntion
could never be cftablilhed in the midst of carnage and disorders,
such were the of the Duke de Rocliefoucauit, Count
Clermont Tonnerre, and particularly the Marquis de la Fayette,
•who always like himfelf, spoke on the iß;h, not as the pretended
friend oj the people, but as a nun of honor, and a true citizen. The
difcufiiuns produced tHfe following Arret on the 23d.
u The National AfTembly, considering that the enemies to
the public welfar have deceived the people,bv distributing among
them falfc decree3,!>y which means they have looked on themselves
authonz d to commit violence against property and psrfons, have
Screed, and do decree.
11 1 1 That oeifoh whatever, under penalty of being pub
lish d i:lt r' -x of public tranquility, fhjll take advantage of
form, i ended 'o have been slued by the King or the
National /AIT i VjiinleTs they are inverted with the forms pref
cri bid hy n. Conituu inland unless they are publilhed by the
officers jppotrned for that purpose.
" 2d. That the King be requeued to give orders, to forward
immediately to all th- municipalities of the kingdom, his Mjj -s
ty's speech ofthj 4th inft. iRe Address of the National AfTembly
to the people of France, and all the decrees as they shall be accept
ed or fan£tior\ed, with ord • s tothe municipal officers to havethein
proclaimed and fiJcedup without any expence, and tothe Curates
and Vicars to read them in the chiirches.
" 3d. The municipal officers,fhall employ every means, which
public confidence puis in then power, for the effectual prote&ion
of persons and property, public or individual, and to prevent and
remove the obftacje , which may be opposed to the collection of
duties ; and if the fecurtty of prfons or property, or the collec
tion of ImpVls Avail be endangered by seditious mobs* they lhall
publifti martial law.
4 * 4th. Every municipality fliall lend n\utual afliftance to each
other, on requisition for that purpose. If they refufe, they (hall
be rcfponfible for the consequences.
" sth. In cafe of any damages arising from a rrtob, the commu
nity (hall be answerable, if it has been requested, and could have
prevented ihem, butrecourfe fhiill be had against the authors of
the mob ; and the refponjibility [hill be judged by the tribunals ofhhe
f laces at the requilition of the Dit c&ors of the diftiitt, or the syn
dic Attorney.
Extratt of a fetter fron Copenhagen t of 20th Feb.
Bnmn hu Swedish Majclly's AmbaiTador, had
a particular audience with the Prince Rnval on Sunday the icth
snft. in .vhich it is said that this Minister decla ed, by order of the
Xing his mftei, that his Swedish Mojefty had thought proper to
jefufe the propositions of peace made by Ruflia, and had decided
to employ all his forces to pu(h the war with vigot, from the pa
cific principles of our Court it may readily be conceived, how
tiifagreeable the continuation of the war is to it. Obligations of
treaty, and gratitude, connect it with the Court of Pcteviburgh,
and it will be very painful to fee that power and the Imperial
Court, its ally, exposed to the combined attacks of a league, dif
proportioned to the ballauce of the powers of Europe : We know
not where to Attribute the aflertion, circulated in the public pa
pers, that a bod y ot Pruflian troops is about being assembled under'
the ovdersot Dote Ferdinand of Brunfwick, in order to hold Den
mark in refpc£t on the fide of tfolllein. Nothing as yet announ
ces more ihan ordinary mealurcs of precaution on the part of our
Court. Tlu'y are busy in establish ng a Commiirariate of War
in Holftein, as also taking into the service the persons necessary
for procuring prov fion* and forage, and the places of Entijns, in
all the regiments sent to thedutchv are filled. Field Marshal Prince
Charles of He(le, and the Prince his ion will set out the day after
to-morrow on a tour to Sleswide, from whence they will return in
in fix or eight weeks.
ST. JOHN's, (Antigua) June 7
Yesterday in the forenoon, an American East-India Brig called
the Cadet, and commanded by Capt. Vans, belonging to Boston,
pafled this Island indiftrefs ; this vessel attempted to make this
port, but from her Ihattcred situation could not effect it, and was
Under the neeeflirv of fliapmg her conrfe for the Island of St. Euf
tatius. By Mi . Davis, [a Gentleman who came paiT nger in the
above veiiel, and who lias been for some time in the East-Indies).
we have been favoured with the following unpleasant intelligence.
That His Majeftv's Frigate the Guardian, Capt. Kiou, bound to
New Holland, had struck upon an iiland of Ice, not far from the
Cape of Good Hope, at a tune she had all her fails set and was go
ing at the late of twelve knots an houi ; that it. was in confe
q'uence deemed necessary to put all her fails immediately aback;
which mcafure, unfortunately however, gave the (hip so much
way, that before any thing else could be done, (he again
ilruck upon another mafsof Ice, by which (he was so much (hat
ti.red,partifjulrrly about her item, and made so much water that
the greater part of the crew thought it neccftary, for the prcferva
tion of their lives, to abandon the ship : the Captain notwuh
ftanding and a few of the Officers and Men, by the most unremit
ting labor at the pumpN, and their cool and excellent conduct, got
thcShip into the Cape ; where it is supposed flie will be broken
up.
Oneof the boats and people were taken upby a French Frigate,
and carried into St. Helena ; the other boat, (to which the re
mainder of the ctcw that had left the Ship, had betaken them
lelves), fafe to the Ope.
The Cadet failed from Mjdrafs in bound to B >fton,
onhrr (be touched at Sumatra, where she remained fonie
months ; and afterwards called in at the Cape, where Hie lay
about fifty d«rys ; from whence fbe encoun ered very severe wea
ther, which .occasioned her fp-inging a leak, and it was with the
utmost. difficulty (be could be kept above water.
ARRWALS SINCE OUR LAST.— -NEW-YORK.
Sloop Dolphin, Ticks. Philadelphia, 10 days.
—-—Fanny, Tillinghurft, ditto 5
•- -• - Friend (hip, Bowne, Norfolk, 6
ditto Hay, Baltimore, 6
—■ —Aurora, Cahoon, Rhode-Island, 3
Dilpatch, Peterfon, ditto ditto
—OJa ney, fyl addack, Baltimore
CONTINUED,
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY, JUNE i.
IN Committee of the whole on the bill providing for the settle
ment of accounts between the United States and individuals
S:ates.
The firft clause propofrd that the Secretary jand Comptroller of
the treasury (hould be affotiated with the three Commifliorters,
already appointed—This was objetted to by Mr. Gerry, he ob
served thai if the appointment of the additional Commiflioners
was vested in the supreme executive, agreeable to the Constitution,
there can be no doubt that the appointments would be made from
such different partsof the Union, as would give Univerfcl fatisfac
tion. Upon the plan of the bill two of ;the Commiflioners will
be from South-Carolina, Mr. Kean and the Comptroller, an ex
treme part of the Union. This he prcfumed would oOt give fa
tisfaftion ; besides, he said it was invading the prerogative of the
President. He moved therefore that the words Secretary and
Comptroller of the Treasury should be (truck out—and the words
" two commidinner•>" inserted.
Mr. Sedgwick, rofc tq enquire why there ftiould be An addi
tion to the commiflTioners P He observed that encreafing ehe men
who are appointed to tranfaft any business, is generally found to
protract the completion of such bufinefV ; he nad very little hope
that the accounts, in the way they arc now in, would ever be fa
tisfaftorily fettled—he moved to strike out the whole clause.
Mr. Williamfon made some obfervatrons in support of the
la life.
Mr. Fitr.fimons, one of the committee stated the reasons which
induced them to make the association. Hie observed that the ob
]c£lions which had been now made occurred to the Committer
With refpeft to the obje£lion from the Comptroller's being from
South-Ccrolina, that was obviated by its being known that the
accounts of that State were fully and very accurately made out by
the late commiflioner from that State, and therefore no undue in
fluence was to be apprehended on that account : That from the
Comptroller's appointment as an officer of the United States, and
not of any particular State, aud h»s being conue&ed with the Trea
sury Department, there appeared to be a propriety in adbciating
him with the Commillioners. An increife in the number of the
Commillioners had been found on experience to be afefolntcly ne
ceflfary, for a variety of reasons which he stated.
Mr. Sherman expressed his approbation of the clause in the bill.
He thought the addition proposed would be a "measure of utility,
that it was proper in itfelf, and with refpe& to the Comptroller,
he was Co much acquainted with him, that he had the fulleft con
fidence in his abilities and integrity. The proportion is eligible
in another view, as it will be deriving great advantage from the
abilities of the gentleman without any additional expcnce.
Mr. Lawrance opposed the clause on similar principles with
those offered by Mr. Gerry; and with refpe£l to encrealing the
weight of public business in the hands of theie officers, without an
allowance for U, he conld not fee either thejuflice or propriety
o fit.
Mr. Vining read a clause, which he proposed so offer as a sub
stitute for that in the bill ; the object ot which was to bring this
business into the Treasury Department, under the fuperintendance
of the Secretary of the Treasury and Secretary of State.
This idearcccived the approbation of Mr Madison. He stated
the different principles, from those which under the Confederati
on directed the public eftabli foments, which ought to influence
the government nnder the present Constitution.
Mr. Gerry obje&ed to th proposed fubftituie. He confidcred
it as a very extraordinary innovation. He argued against it prin
cipally on the ground of its unconftitutionality, as interfering
with the right of the President and Senate in making the appoint
ments. He replicd»to the answer wfcizhJud be- n given to his
objection, from there being more than one Commiflioner from a
particular State ; he observed the answer proved too much—he
had as high an opinion of the hohor and abilities of the gentleman
alluded to, as any member of the committee, and he had no doubt
that competent characters to form the whole board might be fe
)efted from many particular parts of the United States ; but would
any gentleman said he think such a measure politic or eligible ?
The appointments made by the President of the United States
were upon a different principle ; he controverted the idea of vcft
ing such extensive powers as the fuhftitute offered by Mr. Vining
propof d, and with refpeft to appointments he observed that of
all the branches of the legiftature, the Houfc was perhaps the least
qualified to make them.
Mr. Vming supported his proportion—he observed that his
motion was not a greater than that proposed by the
bill ; he stated theincompetency of the present fyltem, he thought
the houfc had been too much influenced by the resolutions and
regulations of the old Congress ; he wiftied that principles and
not precedents Ihould influence the decisions of Congress in future
-.-with refpett to the present commillioners he had as hi<*h an o
pinion of the abilities of the gentlemen as any man, and he doubt
ed not that they'would be re-appointed ; he expatiated on the
ntcefiity of a new arrangement in this business, and enforced the
propriety of appointingcharafters eminent in the public estima
tion, whose decilions would be the refuk of a comprctenfive com
petent view of the lubjett.
Mr. Gerry's idea was finally adopted by the House, and the
appointments of the additional commillioners devolved on the
President of the United States.
MONDAY, JULY j.
Mr. Lawrance introduced a representation and
petition from sundry persons confined for debt
in the goal of the county and city of New-York,
011 the fubjedl of a general bankrupt law read
and laid on the table. •
The petition of John Steward and John Davis,
merchants in Annapolis, praying that the duty
011 a quantity of fait imported by them, which
was destroyed before landing, might be remitted.
Read and committed.
This being the day on which tike anniversary of
Independence was to be celebrated, an early ad
journment took place. :
TUESDAY, JULY 6.
A meflage was received from the President of
the United States, informing, that he has given
his allent to two A«fls, which originated in the
house, viz. An ACT for giving cited- to an A<fl,
providing for the enumeration of the inhabitants
of the United Stares in refpeA to the State of
Rhode Itland and Providence Plantations! and
an Art authorizing the purchase of atracftofland
therein mentioned.
In committee of the whole, on the bill for de
termining the temporary and permanent feat of
government —
N'r. Boudinot in the chair.
The bill being read Mr. Shennan moved that
the following words should be struck out of the
firft clause, viz. " On the river Potowriiac at fomt
place between the mouths of the Eajtcru Branch and
515
ConogoehegueJ"—and moved to infect a clauffc
which fhoula include the town of Haltimore, in
lieu thereof.—>— This motion brought on a de l
bate, which lalted til) after 3 o'clock.
Mr. Smith, of Maryland, and Mr. Carrol, mo--
ved in the course of the debate, that the petitions
from Baltimore and Georgetown, (honld be read.
Thedebatewaa lengthy and animated—(-neither
our time or limits will admit of giving a Jketch
this day.
The conimittee rose withont coming to a de
cision—and the House adjourned.
NEW-YORK, jtJLY 1, 1 790.
APPOINTMENTS. -By Authority
The PRESIDENT of the United States has been pieafed to no
minate, and by and with the advice and conlentofthc Senate to'
appoint,
Henry Marchant, Judze. William Channing, Attorney, and
William Peck, Marshall of the Judicial Court of the United
States, ftj thtDiJlritt of Rhode-Ijlar.d and Providcnnc Plantations.
Ebenezer Thompson, Naval-Officer for the port of
in the place of Theodore Foster» who is appointed Senator of the
United States.
Job Comftock Surveyoi for the port of Eaft-Grecnwich.
Nathaniel Phillips. Surveyor for the ports of Warren and Bar
rington.
Samuel Boiworth, Surveyor for the Port of Bristol.
George Stillman, Surveyor for the Port of Pawcafuck-River.
John Anthony Aborn, Surveyor for the Port of Patuxet,
The annivfcrfiy of Independence was celebra
ted by the citizens of New York on Monday lalfc
with the usual demonstrations of joy and feltivjty.
ST. TAMMANY.
This refpetftable Society aflembled early in the
day—and after a (hort address from the 'grand
Sachem, the declaration of Independence was
read—thus reverting to firft principles, the cau
ses of this glorious anniversary are recognized,
and the lire ol freedom catches from fire to lon.
THE MILITARY.
At 10 o'clock the Legion of Gen. Malcom'a
Brigade commanded by Col. Rutgers were re
viewed in presence of many strangers of diftinc*
tion, and of their fellovr citizens—their evoluti
tionsand firings didrhem great honor.
Col. Bauinan's Regiment of Artillery appeared
in their usual veteran stile. At one o'clock they
fired a federal salute and a fcu-de-joie on the Bat
tery. After which they escorted the Society of
THE CINCINNATI
to St. Pauls—where an elegant oration was deli
vered by Brockholst Livingston, Esq.
to a very numerous audience. The PRE
SIDENT and Vice-PRtsiUENT o< the United
States Members of both Houfcs of Congress—
a brilliant aflembly of Ladies and of the inoft re
fpe(flable citizens. The Cincinnati dined at
Bardin's. After dinner the following toads were
given.
I. The President General oj the Society of the Cii:-
cini. Ati
2. 7'he Vice-President of the United States.
3. The Senate of the United States.
4. The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
5. Le'.fis the XVI. and the friendly powers of Eu
rope.
6. May wisdom and integrity, in council and firm,
ness in the field, be ever the charafieriflic »f Americans.
■J. The memory of ofir Brethren, whofellin defend
ing the liberties oft heir country.
8. The non-commissioned officers and privates of
the late army.
9. The 17th bf October, 77.
10. The 19 th of Oilober, 81.
11. Perpetuity to the principles -which effetled the
late happy revolution.
12. The p leafing recoiled ion, that when in the field
•we remembered we were citizens, and may ftmilar
principles influence the condutl if every American
soldier.
Ij. The day which gave birth to the American Em
pire, and may the wisdom of our National Council>
cause it ever to be remembered with pliafurc.
The Grand Sachemand Father of the Council of the
St. Tammany'sSocisty wire honored with an invitation
to dinner by the Members of the Cincinnati, and the
evening was spent with that mutual good humour and
joy, which it is hoped, will ever be the concomitants of
a day so remarkable in the annals of America.
The fallowing gentlemen were yeflerday eleiledofficers
of the Society ofCincinnati,for the year ensuing, viz,.
Maj. Cen. Baron Steulen, President.
Col. Hamilton, Vice President.
Col. Piatt, Treasurer.
Capt. Dunfcombe, Affiflant do.
Major Stagg, Secretary.
Delegates to Convention,
Col. It. S. Smith, Col. A. Giles, Capt. Watson, Capt.
Dunfcombe.
Standing Committee,
Col. Smith, Col. Bauman, Col. Chriflie, Col. M.
Hughes, Capt. Fowler, Capt. Morris, Capt. Bleed
er, Capt. Bard, Capt. Anfpach.
THE Creditors of Col. ELISHA SHELDON, of Salisbury are
hereby notified, That the Subscribers being appointed Truf
teeiof said Sheldon's estate, will attend to the business of their
appointment on the firft Monday of August next, at the house of
Jacobus Davis, in said SaiilWy, agreeable to the Ast of Aflcm
bly.—The interest of the creditors requires their general atten
dance. HEZEKIAH FITCH, > _ „
JOHN BIRD, \ Trustees.
Salijl'ury, (Conncflicutj, June 28j 1789.9W NtW CONSTITUTION of the STATE of SOUTH-CAROL IXA.
(continuation.)
ARTICLE 11.
SSf. A cutcnant governor IhaU be chosen at the fame
e ' 3' xV time in the fame manner, continue in office tor
the ferae period, and be pofkiTed of the Ume qualifications as the
•overnor. *
Sect. 4. A member of the senate, or house of reprcfentativrs
being chosen and a£ting as governor or lieutenant governor shall
vacate his sea«, and another person Hull be eletted in his (lead.
Sed. 5. In cafe of the impeachment of the governor, or his re
moval from office, death, reflation, or absence from the State,
the lieutenant governor shall iucceed to his office. Ancl in cafe
of the impeachment of the lieutenant governor, or his removal
from oflicc, death, resignation, or absence from the State, the pie
fident of the senate (hall fuceeed to his office, 'til] a nomination to
diofe nJHces refpcffcively fliall be made by the senate, and house of
representatives for the remainder or the time for which the offictr
so impeached, removed from office, dying, resigning, or being
ablent, was elertcd.
Scfl. 6. The governor shall be commander in chief of the army
and navy of this State, and of the militia, except when they (hall
)>t called into the a&ual (ervice of the United States.
Scß. 7. He fliall have power to grant reprieves and pardons,
after conviction (except in cases of impeachment) in such man
ner, on such terms, and under such reftrifltons as he (hall think
proper, and he (hall have power to remit fines, and forfeitures,
unless otherwise directed by law.
Sett. 8. He ihall take care that the laws be faithfully executed
in mercy.
Scfl. 9. He shall have power to prohibit the exportation of pro
vision for any time not exceeding thirty days.
Set 7. 10. He (hall at stated times receive for his services a com
pensation -which shall be neither increased or diminilhcd during
the period for which he shall have been elected.
SeSl. ri. All officers in the execute e department, when requi
red by the governor shall give him information in writing upon
any fubjeff relating to the duties of their refpc&ive officcs.
Seel. 12. The governor shall from time to time give to the gene
ral afiembly information of the condition of the State, <iid recom
mend to their confederation such nuafures as he ihall judge ne
cefTary or expedient.
Sets. 13. He may, «>n extraordinary occasions, convene the ge
neral alTembly, and in cafe of diAgreement between the two
lioufes, with refpeft to the jtiine of adjournment, adjourn them to
such time as he shall think proper, nJt beyond the fourth Monday
in the month of November, thenenfuing.
ARTICLE 111
Se3. x. The judicial power shall be veiled in such superior and
inferior courts of la wand equity as the legislature ihall iiom tune
to time direct and eftablilh.
The judges of each Ihall hold their commiflions during good
behavior, and the judges <1/ the superior courts fliall at stated
times receive a comprnfation for their services, which (hall nei
ther be increased or diininifhcd during their continuance in of
fice, but they (hall receive no fees or perquisites of office, nor
hold any other office of profit or trust under this State, the United
States, or any other power.
Stci. 2. The flile of all pocefs flial! be the State of South-Caro
lina. All prwfccutions fliall be earn don in the name, and by
the authority of the State of South-Carolina, and conclude—againll
the peace and dignity of the fame.
ARTICLE IV.
AIJ persons who (hall be cliofcn or appointed to any office of
profit or trust before entering 011 the execution thereof (hall take
the following oath, 44 I do fwrar, or affirm, th,at I am duly qual
ified according to the conflitution of this State, to exercifc the
office to which I have been appointed, and will to the belt of mv
abilities difctuirge the duties thereof, and preserve, profeft, and
defend the conflitution of this State, and of the United States."
ARTICLE
Srtf. i. The house of reprefentatiycs (hall h.ive the sole power
cf impeaching, but no impeachment (hall be made unless with
the concurrence of two thirds of the houfeof repref<ntative«-
Sefl. 2. AH impeachment* shall be tried \>y the senate. When
fitting for that purpose, the Senators (hall be on oath, or affirma
tion, and no person (hall be convicted without the concurrence of
two thirds of the members present.
Self. 3. Tiie governor, lieutenant governor, and all the civil
otticcrs (hall be liable to impeachment tor any mifdemeaner in
office ; but judgment in such cafcs (hall not extent furVier than to
the removal from office, and difqualification to hold any office of
honor, trust, or profit, under ihisState. The party convi&cd lhall
nevertheless be liable to indictment, trial, judgment and punilh
inent according to law.
ARTICLE VI.
Scfl. 1. The judges of the fupeiior courts, commifitonc?* of th'
treasury, fecrctnry of the State, and Purveyor general (hall Ue elect
ed by the joint ballot of both houses, in the house of r piefenta
tives. The eommiffioners of the treasury, secretary of the State,
and surveyor general shall hold their officcs for lour years ; but
shall not be eligible for so ir years after the expiration of the
lime for which they shall have been el- died.
a. All other officers (hall be appointed as they hitherto
have been um 11 otherwise directed by law, but (hrriffs (hall hold
their offices for four years, and not be again eligible for four
years alter the term for which thev ihall have been ele&ed.
Sets. 3. All commiflions (hall be in the name, and by the au
thority of the State oi South-Carolina, and be foaled with the
f«l of the State, and be figncd by the governor.
ARTICLE VII.
All laws of force in this State at the palling of this constitution
lhall so continue, lyitii altered or repealed by the legislature, ex
cept where they arc temporary, in which cafe they (hall expire at
the times refpcftively limited for their duration if not continued
by ait of the legiflatu»e. (To be continued. J
LONDON.
Exiratr of a letter fiona Vienna, April 3.
" The preparation for the inauguration which
takes place onTufeday next, are all fini/hed. The
ceremonial will be the fame as was observed on
the coronation of Maria Theresa. Agreat num
ber of itrangers of rank are here already to be
witnefles of this grand gala ; during the three
days that the feltivity will last, the King alone is
to appear in a mourning habit. The people with
"what the Italians call a Cocagna, which is a tem
porary b rilding in the form of a castle, hung
round with all kinds of provisions, .which at
the end of the show, the people are per
mitted to storm ; This will be erected ir) the
Place de Garden. The fountain which is to fur-
Jiifh the wine is already raised. On the top of
"the whole building is the cypher of Leopold, with
the words Opes regtim corda fubditornm. This in
scription is not read without emotion, as in rea
lity his Majedy has shewn, in his government of
Tufcany, that the sentiment is written in his
liearr. The medals itruck on this occasion to be
thrown, among the multitude, have a fimilnr le
gend, Amir populi gloria regis.
LITCHFIELD, Jane 7.
CATHOLICISM.
Tuesday evening last arrived in town, his
feat at New-London, Samuel, Bijhop of the Pro
tejiant EpifcopalChttrch in Conneßicut —and onVVed
nefday he performed divine service in the Prefoy
terian meeting houfe—(which the {ociety's com
mittee very liberally tendered him for that pur
pofe)—The auditory was numerous and refped:-
able, and conduced with that pleasing demean
or which ought to chara<fterife all profeflors of
Christianity, and lovers of concord. Sixteen
Episcopal clergy were present, the senior of whom
presented Mr. Trueman Marjh, of this town, for
Ordination—who was admitted into the holy or
der of Priesthood by the Bifliop. The solemnity
and deportment of the young candidate, com
manded attention.—The Bilhop's discourse disco
vered extensive erudition and native genius—and
was delivered with that energy which could not
fail to engage and influence his hearers —all seem
iugto unite in commending the ingenuity aud
gift of the preacher.—lt was not noisy eloquence
without sentiment; but solid reasoning drawn
from sources of the Holy Scriptures—and pro
nounced, as became a vjtrkman not to bi asham
ed—with great cafe and perspicuity.
NEW YORK, July 3.
It is with fmccrc pleasure we inform the public, that Major
Doughty, who was reported to have been killed by the Indians,
on the river Tenaflee, fafely arrived at Forc-Harmar, on the Ohio,
the 15th of last month. This valuable officer was charged with
imp riant public business to the Chickafaw and Choftaw nations
of Indians. While ascending the Tenaflee, on the 21ft of March
last, he met a party of 40 Indians, in three canoes, having a whi e
(1 tg hoisted. This party were a banditti of Cherokees and Shaw. -
noele, with three Creeks.
The Major was in a barge with ensign Sedam, and fifteen non
cominiflioned officers and privates. The Indians appeared very
friendly, and their Chief, and ieveral others, even came on board
of the barge. They received, with the greatest apparent thankfu!-
ness, presents of corn and tobacco. They endeavoured by every
means in their power, to persuade the Major to land, and pafsthc
night with them, promising to hunt turkies and buffaloes for him ;
but he being fufpifious of their design, evaded their entiestics.
Alter having thus pafiVd apwards of an hour, they (hook the Ma
jor by the hand, and lefihim : But the men had scarcely took to
their oars, before they received from the Indians a severe fire,
which was instantly returned, and the boat put about. The barge
then floating down the stream, an ince/Taut fire ensued for four
hours. During this time the Indians m«.nifeftcd an intention of
boarding the barge ; but the cool and well dirfted fire of the Ma
jor's party prevented the design. The Major loft five of his
killed, and fix wounded, one of whom died afterward?.
Having his force thus reduced, he was unable to rituru up the
TcnalTee, agtfinft the stream : He therefore descended that river,
and the Ohio, into 'he Ma(Tifippi,and arrived, on the 25 of March
last, at L'Ancc-a-la-Graife, a Spanilh post, about 4-5 miles below
the Ohio.
The Major was received by Monfirur Foncher, Lieutenant-Corn
mandant of the post, feitU the great eft politei*eli and .attention ;
and every tenderness and care were (hewn to the wounded, ihree
of whom were left at the post, being too badly injured to b* re
moved.
Capi. Hart, who had brrn previously dispatched by the Ma
jor into the Chickafaw nation, joinded him alterwarils on the
Ohio.
We have authority to inform the public, that M'Gillivray, the
principal Chief of the Creek nation of Indians, together with a
number of the Kin<;s and head men of thr upper and lower Creeks
have let out from their own country, in order toviGt the President
of the United States, on the affairs of their nation. It is expell
ed they will perform their journey by the way of Richmond
The distance from the country of the upper Creeks to New-
York, may be efli mated at 1400 miles.
The Chiefs areaccompunied by Col. Willet, who has orders to
provide for their accommodation at the public expcncc.
Ey.tr all from the dcldrtfi til the Levi flat urc of Mat'-
~ 1 r.. . 1 > r* II S- TT .
_ •/ ' Jo •>
facbufetts to his Excellency Gov. Hancock
" The people of this Commonwealth must
ever retain a grateful sense of the virtue of their
fellow-citizees who loaned their property and
a yet stronger obligation to those who have ha
zaided their lives for the public fafety. Com
panion to the fufferings of many of our creditors
exercifesour inoft anxious attention ; the solemn
allurances of repayment, which bind us and our
pollcrity together with the justice and urgency
of their claims, will prompt us to exert the pow
ers of government, for their relief. Nor may we
hesitate to perform this duty, from considering
the Situation of the public obligations, when a
failure of con-plying with governmental promis
es, from the neceflities of the people, have been
the real cause of rfceir depreciated value.
" With your Excellency we are fully in senti
ment, that the debt contracted by this State for
defence of the Union, ought to be adopted by
the United States, as well from considerations of
justice, as true policy.
" Pofl'efling the powers of revenue it is but just
that they fliould also afl'ume the public debt ; and
we entertain the strongest hope from the decla
ration of the Legislature with the
which have been given to our Senators, that this
desirable measure may be adopted.
" Should we however be disappointed in this ex
pectation for the brefent, although we are fatis
fied of our inability at this time to discharge the
principal of the debt, we /hall conceive it "to be
our indispensable duty from the belt resources of
the State to provide for theintereft."
James I. was one day mounting a very unruly
hoiTe, to whom he exclaimed, " De'il take niv
fanl, sirrah, an ye be na quiet, I'll rend you to the
Five Hundred Kings in the House of'Cotnmons."
Ja?ries had not the art of managing /
516
TRUMBULL —the painter.
A letter from London, to a gentleman in t!ii s
town, lhews in what high efteenr, as a Painter
Mr. T. is held, in Great-Britain. The writer
fays, " If yon fee Mr. Trumbull, I refer it to
your discretion to veil him, what Mr. Horec:
W alpole lately told nieof the " Sortie at Git"
RALTAR," that "he found it difficult to be perfuai
ed, that Jo fine a PiSiure iai yet been paint-.d in
gland." Though I mention it rather to give yon
pleafnre, than from any other consideration ; ss
it is more probable that Mr. Trumbull already
knows it, than that his modesty has fuffered him
to communicate it to his friends."
St. JOHN's, June ri.
We have been informed that the hate commo
tions in Martinique, were occafioncd by an Edict
ilfued by the National AiTembly, to compel the
planters of that Island to (hip all their produce
to France, for payment of debts due there the
planters claimed their accustomed privilege of
felling their Sugars, in Martinique, or of ihip
ping thein to whatever port they pleased, where
they could procure the bed prices—Thus were
two parties formed ; the one confiding of the
planters, the Military and the Viscount de Da.
mas ; the other of the Merchants and the reft of
the inhabitants—and it iso wing to thisftep that
so much blood has lately beenfhed.
PROPOSALS,
For printing by SUBSCRIPTION, on a fine paper, with > new
a.id eln ant American letter, raft by lohn Bains, and Co
TRAVELS
ThroJgh North arid South-Carolina. Georgia, Fcjland 'A'eft //,. T(L / ;
Cherokee Nations, and through thee'ten/ive Territoriestjth t Mrf, v .
gulges, or Creek Confederate, at J the country oj the Chxttwj;
com AININC
AN Account of the foil and natural produ&ioni of those re .
Rions, /outlier with obfervatioai on ihe marmmud cuf
totns of the Indians.
By Wi LLI AM Ba rtr am, Botanist, of Philadelphia, w ), n
was employed from 1773 to 1777, by the celebrated Dr. hth'r-, I
of I ondon, to explore the exteniive ™iium ibovc-mrntioned^
CONDITIONS.
I. Il isexpc&ed the work, will roniiin between five and fin
hundred pages of letter prrfs, cart fuly executed, price'to fcbfc:i.
bers two Spanish milled dollars, in an handsome octavo volume
neatly bcund and lettered.
11. Whenever names are obtained for two hundred copies
the work will be put to prefi. '
11 1. Th» work will be interspersed with fix or eight elegant
copperplates, descriptive of the plants, animals, lec. peculiar to the
countries through which the writer travelled, the hull of the long
warrior Micho-clilucco, chief or gnat king of the StmirWlej, or
Loyer Creeks, executed in a maftcrly manner, will be given as t
from lip'ece.
IV. Every fubferiber for twelvAcopies, shall be entitled to a
thirteenth gratis.
Subscriptions are received by James and Johnson, the printers;
Philadelphia. And by the principal printers and book-fellers on
the Continent.
Bethlehem Stages.
THE great number of Misses, who from the banks of the Dela
ware Eaftward,even to Boston, are now at the young ladies
Academy at Bethlehem, renders some regular, convenient and
cheap mode of conveyancc between thattown and New Yorkne
ceffarv. To accommodate parents who have daughters atthat flou
rifhing Academy, and other! who may wish to visit that pleasing
romantic hill, the fubfciibers are now running stages, which will
continue during the summer, between Elizabeth Town Point and
Bethlehem. At each of these places a stage will start every Mon
day and Thursday morning at 5 o'clock, meet at Covenhoven's
tavern the fame evening, exchange passengers, and the next day
return,
Fare of each paflenger from Elizabeth Town Point to Bethle
hem 3 dollars—way pafTengcrs 4d per mile— of baggage
the fame as apa (fencer. Packages and letters will be received and
delivered at Mrs. Winant's, Whitehall, where feats may be ta
ken—carriage of a letter 3d —141b. of baggage allowed to each
paflenger.
'I o accomodate those who may wish to take Bethlehem in their
route in journeying between the Eaftcrn and Southern ftaies, a
stage will constantly rurt between Bethlehefo and Philadelphia,
starting at Bethlehem every Monday morning.
May 19.
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, near the
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kinds of PUBLiCK
SECURITIES—BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c. suufiuL
btw-York, April 8, 1790. -tf.
The Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA,
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten minutes aftcf
Eight o'clock every morning cxcept Sunday.
Stage Office, City Tavern, )
Bfoad-Hay, Nexv-York June 5,1790. £
and a generous price given for Coati
'V nental, New-Hamplljire, Maffachufcus, and Rhode-Iflwi
'ecurities, of every denomination, by
EBENEZER THAYER, juti. No. 59, Witer-Str#.
New-Yoik, April 17, 1790.
& CONTINENTAL §
- AND .
$ STATE SECURITIES, J
jp BOUGHT AND SOI.D, f
V AT NO. 196. WATER-STREET. J
f Ctr A generous price will he given for Military Rights tff
J and Jersey Paper Money. May 4* J
<tT WANTED AV 73 WB3 o/"iAu paper—Six pact t'& w ''
be f aid Jor them by ths Editor. •
WII LlAty CRANE.
FREDERICK BEUTEL.