PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR. THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 18, if Vol. 11. j
THE TABLET. No. CXXII.
" One might suppose that the Chrifiian religion
-would have been worn out, by faffing through so
many contending parties, unlcfs it had forte inherent
solidity to give it duration."
(Continuation of the arguments in fuppOTt of the position, that the
univeyfal diffufion ot literature will precede and prepare the
way for the nniverial prevalence of religion.)
THE fadts already mentioned may per
haps be deemed fufßcienc to elVablifh
the point in queflion, as far as farts can do it.—
Thereare however other historical traces, equal-
Jy pertinent with those that have been cited,
to illustrate the main purpose of our argu
ment. It deserves to be noticed that about lixty
years before the glorious era of the reformation
in Europe, Constantinople, which had been the
relidence of learning and religion, was taken by
the Saracens, and the religion of JefusChrift was
swallowed up in that of Mahomet. By this con
quefl, great numbers of eminent doctors were
driven from Constantinople and other parts of the
East. These Doctors fettling in Germany and
Italy introduced the Grecian literature ; the study
of which soon occasioned a revival of knowledge
in almost every part of Europe. This happened
but a few years after the invention of the art of
printing;—a fortunate circumttance which great
ly accelerated a general difFufion of literature.
These preparatory events, concurring with other
causes of less extenlive and iefs visible influence,
rendered the publication of a rational theology
both practicable and natural. And for want of
thefecaufes only,itis obvious the efforts of Wick
cliff in the 14th, and of Hnfs and Jerome in the
1 jth century were less fuccefsful in refitting the
torrent of pontifical encroachments, than thole of
Luther and Zuinglius in the 16 th. But when
the human mind was once enlightened and ren
dered capable of dittinguifhing between the
precepts of religion and the impositions of fraud,
a *><*« r<»l«i.rlu mto rrform piankirxl
thaiPthe great, the amiable Alfred, or the pow
erful Charlemagne ; and a single voice from the
deflv was littened to with more attention than the
trumpet of Charles the Vth. Alfitled by these
favorable circumltances, Luther, before his death,
had the felicity of beholding millions of wretch
ed mortals emancipated from delation and flayery
- he saw one halt the huge fabric of ami chiilttan
dominion tumbled to the ground, and the otliei
half tottering to its foundation.
A candid furveyot these facts will convince lis
how fruitltfs an attempt mull: prove, to introduce
a rational fyltein of religion among lavages and
slaves, without paving the way by a cultivation of
the mental faculties. In addition to these let us
observe, that the inhabitants of the Highlands
in Scotland and the neighboringitlands, notwitli
ftandin" their vicinity tothe molt polished nations
on earth, and all attempts to detach them from
the idolatrous cuttoms of antiquity, ltill lemain
firmly wedded tothe druidical fuperltiiioti. Let
\is alio advert to the various efforts that have been
made, without success, to christianize the savages
upon our own frontiers. A reflection of a mo
ment will point us to the reafoii. Unlelsthe fava
gescan be crowded into so small a compalsol ter
ritory, as will compcl them to have recourle to
agriculture and commerce for a subsistence, they
never can be civilized; and all attempts to inltruc't
them in religion, while theyremain in the lavage
state, ever have, and probably ev:r prove as
idle and chimet ical, as an attempt to introduce
civil institutions among the lowls of Heaven.-
This leads lis to the real cause ot the otliei wife
aftonithing success of thejefuits in converting la
vages ; and of that de'cifive influence they have
acquired, wherever they have etlabliflied them
felvcs, particularly over the nations of Paraguay
in South America. The profound policy ot that
foclery ofingenious and learned men, has been
to prepare the way for a reception ot their reli
gion by a cultivation of the mind ; and by this
policy, and their indefatigable indu(try,the v have
* It is pnlfchle some of oar readers may fuppof« that the
writer otthefe remarks, on the comparative iwfiucuoe oi learning
and religion, means them as an attack upon foine particular de no ni
dation of chriftians. The Editor however is confident that the
writer had no feft fpeci.lly in view, in his refteftions upon the
ftatc of religion, during those periods, when learning a ma c
little progress. It is evident his object was to ihew, that, in an
unenlightened age, a rational system of religion could not prevai
The superstition of those times, when the people were generally
ignorant, was not confined to any (ingle religious iect, >ut pe«va
<dtd the worftiip of all denominations. ' .
One religions feft will neither be more or less superstitious than
another, if all are equally favored with the means of literature.—
The Editor has now in his ooffeflioa an Ellay written by the at>
SATURDAY, JUXE 12, 179°.
made more converts of savages, than all other de
nominations of christians ; and larger acquifuions
to the Spanish dominions, than the arms of Cortez
and Pizarro. (To be continued.)
thorof this difcuflion, on the fubjeft of >raiverfal toleration, and
from this he is persuaded the author 'it partial in his attach
ments or aversions ro any fe& whatever The term dvti-ehrifiiati
does not exclusively belong to any felt ot clirilhans ; but it may
be applied to the errors of every one. J -.-cry so& there are gooc
and bad men,
' • ■» - ——
On the immortal I> "LTON.
APART, and on a sacred hill r :ir'd,
Beyond all mortal inlpiraiion ir'd,
The mighty Milton fits ;sn hod arouni
Of lift'ning angels guard theisoly ijr jund ;
Aroaz'd they Ice a hnman foiAn afptve
To grasp with daring hand a (eraph't lyre,
Inly irradiate with cclellial beams,
At'.empt those high, those foul-fubduinp; themes,
(Which humbler denizens of heuv'o decline)
And celebrate with fau&ity divine,
The (larry field from warring angels won,
And God triumphant in his viftoi son.
Nor less the wonder and the (Wcet delight,
His milder scenes and fottcr notts e-xite,
When at his bidding Edtn's blooming grove,
Hreatbes the rich sweets of innocence and love,
With luch pure jov at our forefather knew
WWen Raphael, heavenly gneft, firft inet'his view,
And our glad fire, within nis blistui bower,
Drank the pure con erf: of th* jctherLal power,
Round the blest bard his rapiur'd audience throng,
And feel their fouls tmparadis'd in song.
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA. No. IX
Continued from our > ijl.
'Tis from high lite, characters arc drawn,
A fairrt in crapc, is twicc a faint iu lawn.
TO any one who has never considered the
force ot national attention, consideration, and
congratulation, and the natuial and artifi
cial, by which they have been excited, it will be
curious toreadin Plato's Alcibiades, the manner
in which tliefe national attachments to their kings,
were created by the ancient Perlians. The poli
cy of the modern monarchies of Europe, ieemsto
be, anexadt imitation of that of the Persian court,
mr it is <xr>laivied by rhe Citccian philosopher.
In for example, thfe pregnancy of the
queen is announced with great solemnity to the
whole nation, her majesty is scarcely afflicted
with a pain, which is not formally communicat
ed to the public. To this embryo, the minds of
the whole nation are turned, and they follow linn,
day by day, in their thoughts tils he is born, the
whole people has a right to be crefent at his
birth ; and as many as the chamber will hold,
croud in, till the queen and prince are aim oft fuf
focated with the loyal curioiiry and affectionate
solicitude of their lubjects. In the cradle, the
principal peonages of the kingdom, as well as
all the foreign ambassadors, are from time to
time presented to theroyal infant ; to thousands
who press to fee him, he is daily shewn from the
nursery ; of every step in his education, and of
every gradation of his youthful growth, in body
and mind, the public is informed in the Gazettes ;
notaftrokeofwit, not a.Uprightly fully, not a
trait of generous affection, <an escape him, but
the world is told of it, and very often pi etty fic
tions are contrived, for the fame purpose, where
the truth will not fntiulh materials. Thus it be
comes the national fafhion, i; is the tone of the ci
ty and the court, to think and conveife daily
about the dauphin. When he accedes to the
throne, the fame attention is continued, till he
dies. In eletfive governments, fometliing very
like this always takes place, towards the firft cha
racter ; his person, countenance, character and
actions, are made the daily contemplation and
conversation of the whole people. Hence ariies
the danger of a division of this attention—where
there are rivals for the firft place, the national
attention and pafllons are divided and thwart
each other ; the collision enkindles fires ; the
conflicting paflions interest all ranks ; they pio
duce flanders and libels firft, mobs and fed.tions
next, and civil war, with all her hilling Inakes,
burning torches and haggard horrors, at last.
This ifthe true reason, why all civilized free
nations have found by experience, the necelhty
of separating from the body of the people, and
even from the legiftature, the distribution ot ho
nors, and conferring it on the execuuve authonty
of government. When the emulation of all the
citizens looks up to one point, like the rays of a
circle from all parts of the circumference meet
in« and uniting in the centre, you may hope for
uniformity, confiltency and subordination ; but
when they look up to different individuals or as
femblies, or councils, you may expetk ail the de
formities, excentricities ami confuhons, ot the
ptolemaic system.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTA V'VES.
Debates on Tonnace, ContinulD.
FRIDAY, MAY 14* I7?0,
MR. FrTZSIMONS obfttved, that notwithstanding all the
gentleman, (Mr. Madison) has said, he could noiTielp con
sidering thOmeafure as a very bold one. Great Britain maintains
her Well-India islands at an expence, which no other nation can
support : This iyftem flie mnft persevere m, at allrtfques and ha
zards, and (he will do it. The (hips of this country are not, and
will not for several years, be fuffic>ent to export the produce 01
the UriTfcd Su'e*, weexciud'- the Brit'ili (hipping, our pro
duce must remain ott our hands. This would be productive a
confluences which every one must contemplate with distress.
The (hips of Great Britain comprehend almost iniircly what in
called foreign {hipping ; by adopting this mcafurc we shall in et
fefl cut ott the Southern States from all opportunity of exporting
their produce—and as I think it mull be ? long period, it ever u
(hould arrive, before the Southern States will become manufactur
ers or (hip builders, it appears neceiTary that till such time as tht
American (hipping (hall be fufficient to carry off their produce,
that we (hould not exclude this navigation, cfpeciallv as the pre
sent capital of this country is not fufficient t lO furnifh a pieient
supply.-——He said, to encourage our own (hipping he thought the
enhanced duty on tonnage was prudent ; but beyond that could
not think himfelf judified in gding.
Mr. Williamfon stated some particulars refpe-aing the treaty of
peace, and said that a commercial treaty was on the point of beirijg
concluded at that time ; but the British nnnifter having received
informaiion that our ports were opened to her ihips, broke off the
negociation, as she enjoyed all that a treaty could givf» without
binding herfelf.
Mr. Lawrance thought the information of the gentleman lad up
of the highell importance, and therefore wsfhed the business now
nnder confederation to be poAponcd until such time as this inform
ation could be more completely laid before the hou4e. We have
not yet, said he,-furnifhed the Prefidcnt with the means to fond
a person to Great-Britain to negotiate any treaty ; the till has
not yet paflcd the Senate empowering hull to nominate ambaf
fadort. &c. Hfc thought the fame arguments which had he en
ufe'd againlt the duty on tonnage might have been applied againd
laying a duty on rum, coffee orfugar. To prohibit British vessels
from exporting our pioduce,lic did not believe would bethought
so very di(advantageous lo them : they might find other employ
in exporting for ithcv countries, even from Ireland to the \\ 1 fl-
Indies. II we exclude their vefTcls, we exclude their capitals ;
and it is well known that a great many of the British. merchants
have their capitals invclted in the trade with America.
Mr. Lawrance further called on gentlemen to remember tint
this country had ttiany indulgences allowed her in Great-Britain,
which (he did not allow to other countries ; and indanced the ar
ticles of iron, flaxfeed, pot and pearl ashes, itc.
Mr. 9%; txd Lawjajicc his obfervat.on thAf
this was not a proper time to adoptrhc meafnre proposed, as he
was apprchenlive that if British bottoms were prohibited, oui
produce would be left upon our hands. He agreed with Mr-
Hartley,iu his obfbivations refpe&ing the western pods. *Ie view
ed the retention of thele pofls with indignity, as much as he view
ed the carrying tiade in any but our ownveffels ; but hfffaid time
was nrcelfary to bring ahout a proper regulation. Shall we go to
war with ourftlves ? laid he.
He said he fully approved the sentiments of the gentleman from
Virginia, yet such is the present situation of the United States, that
he lould not aiTcnt to adopting the proposition, as wc are by no
means prepared for the con/equenccs.
Mr. Page remarked that the whole ftttfs of the argument#
againlt the resolutions before the committee, dill reded on a sup
position that Britain would retaliate. He reminded the commit
tee of the different arguments which he and other members had.
adduced, to (hew the improbability of that supposition : and
remarked, those gentlemen who had agreed to raise the ton
nage on her (hips to one dollar, but refufed to do this unlets we
made our allies pay the like sum, exprefled fears very unoecoming
members of this house. Sir, said he, we are supposed to dread
what ia called a commercial war with Britain : how much more
will she not suppose we must dread a war of another denominati
on ? It we are thus timid, we shall (hudder at Britain s refeni
ment : if she fees this, Che (hould not only bold the pods she now
has within our territory, but (he (hould advance and augment
them ; (he (hould infill upon our faking off the duties which we
have laid on her commodities. These fears, added he, would
scarcely become us in our «ld colonial capacities ; they are high
ly unbecoming in our present independent situation, and are ex
tremely impolitic. But if some gentlemen are so much afraid of
difobhging the tnglilh, (hould they not have some fears lead thev
difobli«re the French ? Is it wife to difgull that nation, and our
other <llics. and biing down at lead their contempt upon us, if
not a reilriflionofour commerce with them ? Can it be prudent
to make no diftinftion between the nation which views our rising
greatness with mortification, and which againd its mod obvious
interest redrains our commeice; and that nation which at this
moment is exulting in the enjoyment of liberty, for which they
gratefully acknowledge they are in a great measure indebted to
America, whom they had firft rescued from the tyranny of that
nation, to whom, contrary to the present intereds of their
own merchants, the\r open a beneficial commerce ? The French
mud he excecdingl) hurt by the observations which some gentle
men have made on our connection with France, and the prefer
ence they seem disposed to give to Britain.
But, fir, who can suppose that what are callcd indulgences of
Britain are any thing more than what her own intered evidently
diflates ? She increases her revenue nearly 700,0001. per ann. by
a duty on tobacco alone. The importance of the tobacco trade t<>
her was evident in the late war, when her merchants gave 2s 6d.
deil. per pound for it in this city, and afterwards paid isd. duty
in England. It was proved b7 Mr. Glover, when he appeared
at the bat of the House of' Commons in support of the merchants
petition anaind entering into the war wirh America, that one
third of the whole trade of Britain depended on t.ie thirteen
colonies, now the United States ; and it is certain that at
this although (he has loft much of that trade she en
joys a great proportion of it, and, a* my colleague clearly
proved, advantages result from it which (he has with no other na
tion. As to her turning her tiade into another channel, as has
been infmuated, (he must be a looser by it.
It is said that Britain gives us a generous preference to Ruflia ;
but the balance of trade with Ruflia, and every other country in
Europe, I believe, except, Portugal, is against her. _ .
But, fir, it is said that we may hurt the feelings of the Br mill,
who otherwise would conclude a treaty which they seem now du
pofed to make, now they have a power in America with whi«J*
[Whole No. 122.]thy may treat. Thai power.fir, has existed above twelve month*,
and might have been long since applied to ; but I believe it never
will be applied to, Unlets Congref* render tiie application neccf
f4ry. by some such meafurej a are (low. prtjpofed Joy the.refolu
tisns baforc us. 1 believe the wisest and, bell men in England
wish we would compel their King to treat ; for to'him i> enuuft
ed the regulation of the commerce with 1 America. Th« wiieft
ininiftei that nation ever had {Mr.'Pitt) proposed, as Toon at the
preliminary articles of peace were ligned, to put the trade with
America upon the Tame tooting oil which it stood before the war j
but his wife plan was rejected merely because the American States
seemed disposed to be as dependent in their commerce upon Bri
"tain, as when they were her colonies: and a bold experiment has
been made of the truth of Lord Sheffield's aOertion, that Ameri
ca cannot exill without the trade of Britain, and that even Mafla
chufetts woutd return to her toimcr fubje&ion to that country,
rather than be deprived of the carrying trade and filheries. Sir,
fin h affcriionsought toroufe an honell indignation, or at' least a
firm resolution to Ihew that they are groundless. I repeat it again
and again, that it is the wilhof Virginia to do this. I have been
alked why we not make a discrimination between our friends
and enemies ? Sir, I call not the Britiih enemies, they are ene
mies no more ; but I have been told by my countrymen, that so
long as they hold potts within out territories by an armed fbice",
they ought to be viewed as enemic* ; that so long at they restrain
our merchants fiora trading with them, and burn our vessels in
their poits, they cannot deserve the name of friends.
Mr. Bland was nearly of the fame opinion with Mr. Page, and
laid he could fee not the least reason to apprehend any danger of a
commercial warfare. He stated sundry arguments of the oppo-
Jera of the amendment, and read extrafti from thcit fpeechtt,
.Itibtthka proved to be perfeaiy contradi&ory to their present
ipope of reatoning, J|e further quoted fpme historical facts, ref
jieaiiig the conduct of Britain not long since, in regard of making
• difciimiuation between the wines imported from Portugal and
thole imported from France. This was resented by the Portu
• guele, who immediately prohibited the importation of Britiih
cloths, which had such an effefi, that Britain instantly entered
into a commercial treaty, and put Portugal wines on a better
tooting than the French wines, by giving them exclusive privili
ges. I would therefore ast, said Mr. Bland, is the trade of Por-,
tugal, that small country, ol more cbnfequence to Britain than the '
Vide of this continent ? I think not. Neither have I the least
apprchenflon that they will rift the loss of our commerce ; and
Inould they attempt it, w« need sot give ourselves the trouble of
complaining j their ownmerchanu and planters in the Weft-In
i 5 * " hath been experienced. He con
cluded, by obferviog, that the proposed amendment would bold
out the language of this country and of the house, by Ihewine
them what we meant to do at a future day ; and he thought the
time mentioned (ift of January next) a very proper one. If thev
wilh to enter into a commercial treaty, it may be completed be-
Tore that day arrives.
JAMAICA INTELLIGENCE.
T A ntigu» Gazette of the nth April is
Apublifbed several refohitions of thecouncil and
anembly of Jamaica, on the fubjett of the slave
trade.
The firft states that the partial abolition of the
fjave trade would lead to thenecefiity of purcha
sing only prime flares oil the coall, in order to
liavtng the fame work done with fewer hands—
the effert of this would be that the old people
who arc offered for sale in Africa, would not be
bought, and would in that cafe, according to the
cultom of that country be killed.
lid. That the loft of teamen in this business
has been proved on the tefliniony of Admiral
Edwards, to be much more inconsiderable than
has been aflerted—and that the abolition would
be prejudicial to navigation, and many branches
of trade dependent on it-the consumption of
herrings and ilated fifli by the negroes, being im
menie. ' 6
\ ill. States that the number of negroes in Ta
maica as 2j0,000--i40,0000f which are males and
110,000 female^.
. yLV?- ;? is . abfo , lutcl y impoflible to cultivate
the Weft-India islands, so as to produce any com
modities that would enrich the mother country
by white labourers Fatal experience demon
lti ares the fallacy of such an expectation. In the
year l 749, the legislature of this island palled a
law holding out great encouragement for the in
iroduetion of white families into this colony
which proved ineffetfual; very few families hav
ing come in consequence thereof, and, ofthofe
that came, not a vestige is left. The French mi-
y > in I 763, attempted to fettle a colony by
means of white labourers at Cayenne, onthecoait
of America : Twelve thousand miserable people
Avere the vic'hms of this impolitic ffcheme. If sur
er mltances are wanting to prove, that Euro
peans cannot withstand the climate when exposed
to the fun and the rains, recourse may be \ad to
the accounts ofthe siege of Carthagena ; the ex
pedition to Cumberland-Harbour j the fiecre of
the Havannah ; the returns of the) regiments that
came out under the command of General Garth
mi 779 and in 1780 ; and the expedition to Fort
it. Juan, on the Spanish Main.
X. That 'It is the opinion of the joint
Committee, that the charges which have been
brought ap-ainit the Planters of this island, ofim- ,
proper and inhumane treatment of our Slaves may
be Jully refuted anddifproved ; firftby an appeal I
to our laws, and secondly, by the evidence of re
fpeftable men who have resided amoag us, and
have been witnefles to our manners. Whatever
may be said of our ancient colonial Slave laws
the aifls which Lave been palled, within the last
rcn years, are written in characters ofjufKce
r.ieicy and liberality. Concerning the general
1 eatment ofour Slaves, we referto the evidence
already personally given to the Lords of the Coun
cil, by the Right Hon. Lord Rodney, Sir Peter
! arker.Admiral Barrington, Sir Joshua Rowley
Admiral Hotham, Vice-Admiral Edwards and
Sir George Young : and to the further evidence
that may be produced from genlemen ofcharadler
in f ngb.nd who have resided many years in this
island, and are intimately acquainted with our con
duift and manners. We conceive that the testi
mony of such persons is unanswerable and con
clufive ;and Ihall therefore only remark, that it
is notorious our Slaves in general are not only
treated withkindnels and humanity, but they art
alio protected by law from immoderate challife
ment or cruel treatment, and enjoy more easy,
comfortable, and happy lives, than multitudes of
the labourers in Great-Britain.
XII. That, It is the opinion of this joint
Committee, that the present value of property in
this illand maybe fairly and reasonably eliminated
as follows viz. 250,000 Negroes, at 501. Iterling
per head, is 12,500,000!. The patenreed lands,
with their erections, and the personal property
appertaining thereunto, at double the value oft he
Negroes, (being the belt general rule of valuati
on) amount to 25,000,000!. and the article of
houses In the towns, the coasting and trading
veflels, &c. may be estimated at one million and
an half at the least ; it appearing by the Report of
the Committee of the Lords of the Privy-Coun
cil, that the houses in Kingston andSpanilh-Town
are alone worth 1,428,52 il. Iterling. The total,
is thirty-nine millions of pounds llerling ; the
whole profits and produce of which capital, as al
so of the various branches of commerce to which
it gives rife, center in ($1 eat-Britain, and add to
the national wealth,-while the navigation necefla
ry to all its branches ellabli/hes alhength which
wealth can neither purchafenor balance.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MAXIMS FOR REPRESENTATIVES.
O man can be fafely entrufled with the im
/ portant concerns of a country, who is de
ficient in knowledge, principle, or industry
who is extremely avaricious, or under the con
troul of ambition. He must be firm, laborious,
but not obllinate, nor jealous, nor too much con
cerned about his own honor. He mull express
many ideas in few words, as long speeches, (even
when excellent) generally difplcafe some of the
hearers. lie mull be undisguised, open, candid,
an I attentive to his opponents—always manifeft
ing a disposition to accommodate. Never aim to
carry a point by any means which the most im
partial minds will not approve—and never tri
umph in luccefs. Study to avoid hurting the
feelings ofhisopponents— while he brines Itronir
arguments againlt his opinions, clothed in foft
and relpe<ftful language No appearance of
c-K«»;wfliouldftain his political charader—man
kind allociate the ideas of cunning and roguery
together—and whenever a measure is effected by
mere cunning, its opponents will ever after view
its advocates as dishonest men—it ought therefore
to be constantly impressed upon hisfnind that fi
nefle, ci ast and cunning,are iniferable expedients
and commonly ifl ue in defeat and loss of charac
ter. Moderate abilities, if exerted only in the
ftra.t line of truth and honor, with a (ingle eye
to the public good, will sav e the nation, andren
der the plain honell Statesman the delight and
glory ot his country But theartful and defign
mg, however learned, are ahvavs ftc, *u l
and detested. Altho this hath been the
cunning men mail times, yet all time, r„ J
may expect to be cur/I with such characters
HARTFORD, June 7.
On Saturday the 09th of May last.died at Brook
a i r Cr ' \ n the 73d y par of his aec that
Jt>"Jy celebrated Hero, Patriot anrl Pi, i ' 1
pill, ISRAKL PUTNAM, EfJ Mafor r " r ?*
and mod refpecftablecollecftion of t l>» • u '? r S eft
ever known there on the lik ' r ,nh »b'"nts
well ad.pred *
ftah Whitney, the procession moved to tl- R J °"
nig ground in the following order • y '
Company of Grenadiers.
of the Town with reversed Arms
Music.
T . ~ r Company of Artillery.
The Masons, , n the Badges of theirorder.
The CORPSE.
Mourners.
The Clergy.
1 lie Church of Brooklyn.
Military Officers.
Inhabitants.
. When ll ' e l'roceifion had arrived at tbo 1
3
ter performing their accnftn,? i and af
and p™n g „„„ c Y„j e fSVlo t,em
character of the deceased tl.pp, g -J" m ° n the
ced and fired three platoons advan
ed by a discharge of Artillery' "^' was f,,«eed
condutfted with' that order md 7 W Was
lo, eMd refpca of S d b fSs,S''
486
CONGRESS.
house of representatives
WEDNESDAY, JUNE o.
THE hill providing for the fettlemcut of accounts
United States and individual States, having '
and amended by sundry additions, was recommitted ■ITff' l, I
committer. u 4 »clcct -
Mr. Parker moved the following Refutation, viz That i
two lioiilcs adjourn lo clof; the pfefent felTioi'i the P Iv"' 1 ' '
fie Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Repr'efent atiw 'l'"' " f 1
their refpeflive Houses to meet, and hold ilicir next IV(f, )oum
cityol Philadelphia. Un a 'the i
The introduction of this motion occasioned some cone-, r •
about order. It was alked if it had been laid on the tahl, 7' ''
hnufe nad been in poffefliou of it agreeable to the rulr. e I
Ho Ife ? The Speaker observed that th'e gentlemen r'
h.j intention to bring forward fucli amotion vefterdiv. k ,
he had not observed it on the table. Hr said he would i.°i i"
rules, and leave the house to determine, whether the mot»„ ,w
circumitanced is m order, or not. us
Mr. Gerry thought the motion was not in order
Mr. Vining contended that it was; and enlarged on the fnV-A
Mr. livermore appealed to the chair for a decilion.
The Speaker declined giving his opinion, and observed .t,
circumftaoced as he was, he fuDpofed, by leave of the bn.'.f.T
might be excused ; Humbert cried out by all means.
Mr. White observed that a« it would be attended with, rrv
uicious oniequences for the tv*o Houses to dil grt* T ;
p!« e ofth ir mectiug.he woulu piopofc tint there fliouldhe /,'
ier nee with the Senate. J co,i-
Mr. L»wnn i observed thit he had alwaysaim-d to aP
national principles ; agreeable to this idea he thought that 11
manent refidencc of Cor„rcfs (hould be the fubj ft of coafider ■' * "
in preference to the temporary residence. ' ' L
Mr. lack fun, after observing that on the idea of accommoda
his conftilucuts, by havtngthe feat .if government nearer th : "
nl the Union, he had before voted in favour of adj u-mr i> t
1 idelphia, said as the fubjeft had now attained a d as '?"
and he f.iw no probability of (he refutation', being c hi
S.nate, in ord-r to prevent the delay of public buliucfs ofth.' cr cii
ell importance, he (hould vote against biinging the temporary „
lidcnc? forward again.
Mr. Vming observed, that with refpeft to the permanent rrfi.
dence, it was uot in his opiuion the proper time to bring throurf
tion forward : It would require p. rh.ips so years to brine it in a
dcci.,o".__ H e enlarged on this fubjea, and said ihe motion
would not be in order ; and if it was, there is no Wpefl „f j„
the'mcTr mthC Sc ' !atf,,as the y havc ilrcjd y decideda S :. n ft
1,11 !»• trmpoiaiv icfidiiirc he was anxiouflv so!-.
citous to have determined, as he conceived the public mmd was
much agitated -the House is agitated by it, and the bufintfs before
them is einbarrafled for want of this dccifion.
The fpeakcr finally determined that it was not in order to take
u'rh u?'°" 3t ' hc ?', CfCI !! " mc :" w " therefore ordered that
it (hould lie on the table till to-inorrow.
Mr Sherman of the committee appointed lor the purpose it
'ddttional rules to be observed in condoLg k.
lineis between the two houfei,
Mr Gerry gave nouce that he (hould to-morrow bring forward
a resolution to fix the permanent refidencc of Congress somewhere
on the taftern banks of the Delaware
l.ftd.tTf mitteeof ,ht r l,o ! C ° nthc bi)l f ° r repealing, after the
nt & c DCXt f " hcrcto(urc lilld o" diKilled fpi.
Mr Goodhue moved.to strike out the twelfth fefiion which pto
vides for an cxcifeon fpintsdiflilled in the United States Thiimo
lon occasioned considerable debate-The excise wa, oppoM,as in.
dci TV* W those funds of the pamr.nU, States on
pend fur paying the interest of their State dcbi., which would be
a mod glaring ast of injuftiee, unlef. those debts aie alTuroed by
foLli,".' .L tat " : ° ' ob j eaedta ,he principle of excise. al
.'r' '• C tl,ot,< * u was however negatived by a majority of **
n ing in the affirmative, and 28 in the negative; the com
mute proceeded to the 26th fcftion of this bill before they role.
Thursday, june io.
St of Scerctaiy of the Treasury on the petition of
Stephen Moore, was read and refered to a frleO committee.
ohi, wL't" prC,t "! cd •* P«'t'on from the tanneis of Pliiladel
pnia, was read.
m ° Vcd J lhat ' h <= House should take upfor consider..
eref [ "J 1 '' df yesterday by Mr. Parker, to remove Coo
grels from New-York to Philadelphia.
sacks >n S rn J nf W ' Boudinot, Lawranee, Gerry,
motion' it' '' 0 wor 'h> Ames, and Livermore, opposed the
Pace aiid"Wh , a ' P? by MefTrs. Hartley, Vining, Parker,
un the r' C much debateon the qiteftion for taking
up the proposition, it wa, deeded by calling the yea. and nays.
nK ' Ba , ldwln . Brown, Cadwallader, Carroll, Clytner,
flier Ler M l F'tzfiinons, Gale, Oilman, Griffin, Hartley, Hei
ker' Sro'tt s ' ° n ' ' ws > Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Page Par-
Sunipter (Maryland) Steele, Stone,
oumpter, Vining, White, Williamfon, Wynkoop. «.
\I (T a NOM
Fodcr r/ mc$ > " nfon, Bloodworth, Boudinot, Burke, Floyd,
lacklo'n law' '°° Grout, Hath'orn, Huger, Huntington,
laer ScW Wlll ? l | ® l " rd i Livermore, Parti idoe, Van Renlel
k'es W hatehe "r f W ,' Ck ' Sherman ' S y lvcftci > Smith [ S C J Stur '
The 7 rumb "»- T"cker. Wadfworthl 20. J
was made that th'"? ,he House for a decision— a notion
the whole 1 »| C l!" 0 ,^ c committed to a comfnitieeof
ry, (hould'at the f" .P'°P ofltlon moved yesterday by Mr. Ger
ftruilions thni tl Jmc " me "fetred to the commitiee, with in.
.lu- P^Z7£Z' g TLZ a,0 ° rclative t0 4 pla "
bate rikt ° COnriderablS df "
vided—axe\+r?* mis^e motion the house di
vor of the mi . nocs Speaker declared himfelf in fa»
vas thea div,dcd ' ani
tived c,n S at length pat for commitment, it was nega
d)es 20^—noes 33.
MeflYs a AYES.
Goodhue - n« ull 0 "' Bo , udmot ' Rulke - Floyd, Foster, Gerry
n"d, Li.crmnr,' n Hu S e, '» Huntington, Lawrance, Leo
wick, Shcrmin s l "n" 0 ?' Va " Rcn^al,acr . Schurcman, Scdg-
Thatcher, T.umbu'irTuckerWaStf 1
Me/TV* An, NOES.
Carroll rivr Brown, Blood worth, Cad -valladcr,
(in, Hart lev h'ja• Contee, FiuGmons, Gale, Gilman, Grif-
Muhlcnbrra p C ac on » Lce » Madison, Mathews, Moore,
Sumpier vlnin/'wu- r * Scott » Senc >'> Sinnickfon, Steele, Stone,
A motional Wh,tC » WiHi.mfen, Wynkoop. 33.
' vided Ayes 3 \r ma< * e or an adjournment—The House di
ftruckou'o°f d ,h° rt f ! hc " movcd - ,h « Philadelphia (hould be
AtoW d , ' a " d Balt,morc infc«ed
to adjourn ati/uni T mot ' on > anotllei motion was made
lar eo'thtfe '"PP°"ed by arguments and observations fimi
occafion. Thnfe i'l! ? formcr P a P" ; but grearly enlarged on thi«
dcncc or in vor of determining on the temporary refi
' • jOarnniciu to Philadelphia, urged its greater ccn-V New-Vork-the injure dons to tl. c SuMU.e.a Stat-o
in holding the sessions in so eccentric a fituation-the uneafnief,
of the people on this present temper of the Itoulc—
the tendency of the question to irritate and inflame-the interrup
tion of the public business, apd the influence the fubied might be
supposed to have in determining great national queftions-that the
determination ot a very great majority of the house had been over
ruled in an unprecedented and extraordinary manner by the Se
nate, the House ought in justice to ihemlelves, and to then con
ftituents, who were greatly interefled m the lilue of the question
to infill on their former vote, &c.-!rom thele enumeration, the
advocates for Mr. Parker's motion urged an ultimate decifton on
the queliion.
In reply n wasoblerved, that thequeftion is ofa mere local na
ture, which ought not to be brought forward at the prelent moment
to interrupt the great and important national business Ibefore the
We-that the people were anxiously waiting tor a completion of
business—that they would view with concern and disgust the
men whom they had appointed to tranfaft affairs of thegreateft
an<l wafti «Bt.me in discussing a ques
tion, of, confcfTcdly, alocal nature—thattho the rcfolution had been
thelena'te andth '"r' hc h °' lfe ' U wa.negatived in
thL ,f ; WaS no ,P rof P cft of => different decifion
that if Ph ladelphia was agreed upon as the place to which Con
" mUst \ PPCar> frbm a m °ft cursory view.
«ver to effect a repre ' cnt ? t,on ' that " would be extremely ditficuk
pretended th« ? I'° TT Ctntral flt " a " un . and no one
C -! T , *» 0 P la « for a permanent reft,
deuce. It was further fotd, that in order to remove alt cause of
termor",'hfZ °" r was bccomc necessary to de
e the peimanent feat of government. On this last idea
™"a ma s? a " d ,hecl,gib^ty
relolution bemg °"°" '° takc Up Mr "
»efcl,'„ SedgW ' Ck i. a l t " " nUmber observations, moved that the
Se ofthe who' V bd ?'t thf: v hQ,lfL ' ftonldb e referred to a commit
confid , u' at th,tcomm 'ttee be mitruited to take into
rS'the n motlon Mr. Gerry laid on the table ,efterday°
Delaware. P mancm featof government on the banks of the
beW fhr h r V ' th " ™ hcn the fub i ea originally Wt
ih , ' " Wa ' movcd totak -eup the permanent relfdence
-that mot,„„ Wi s the „ rejeQed-why then (hould we wartime
on a fubj.fi, which has already been determined ? If gentlemen
finefcXt ce»»FnT n° ** Concerncd about < he public bu
nowpropofed 6 ° a ™'«eeof thewholc, as
hetaed '"wer? si and declar f d ! that he « well-as those with whom
bnn7foV3 t t the,r Prions when they wifoed to
oring torward the permanent residence—he thought it of the ut
«Tn„ 'T orUnCCthat the fub J ra receive a Inal dcte mi«
This motion as before dated was negatived. ° al actcrnuni| -
FRIDAY, JUNE n.
nn^i r ; prance moved that the House fliould go into a committee
J.cc edit prOV ' d ' n ß, wa V s and for the support of the pub
ind a C r f: s "^: o " lhlS Avcs.nd Noes were cafled,
u m ?' Boudlnot . Benfon, Burke, Foster, Floyd, Gerrv
LtnniT' " athor,,e > Huntington, Huger, Jackson, Lawrance'
Svlvefter' <t! V " m ° r \ Sedgw,cfc J , Sherman, Sturgel,'
f . y w" A^'X eman ' Sm c lt ' 1 ; ' M -i Smith ( S - CO Trumbull, Thatch!
NOES.
dcr M^n t An,e f :, BaldVVi "' Brown > Blood worth, Carroll, Cadwalla
dcr, Contce, Clymer, Cola, Fitzfimons, Gale, Griffin Oilman
Jhew. P 7' Mad ' fo "> Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Mat
!«rwin g w' S f ney>Steclc ' Scot ' Sinnicklon, Stone Vu-
Ing, Williamlon, Wynkoop, White
So the motion was loft
*9&±ssssxr*«• "" l "< --»«►
"Th r ; Bur n e ren r ew « the motion lor Baltimore.
t.morc f, g °"! PhiUdcl P hia -nd inking Bal
timore altci I nine debate wa> determined by ayes and noes as sol-
AYES.
Cerrv r/i?"' Benfon, Bloodworth, Burke, Floyd, Foster,
Oerry, Coudhue, Grout, Hathorn,, Huger, Humineion lick
Sedg."
StnrZ' <t y ' Shci ."? an ' s>yl«'ft«, Smith (M.) Smith (S. C ) Stooe
Purges, Sumptcr, fhatcher,Trumbull, Tucker, Wadfworth -q, '
„,r . „ NOES. ' J '
Cote Com, B ; ow ". Cadwallader, Carroll, Clymer,
Coles Fiufimons, Gale, Gilrnan, Gr.ffin, Hartley, Heif
er, Lee, Madison, Matthews, Moore, P. Muhlenberg Pare
st&tzsr** S, " K Vi " ; "
», it . ayes.
Bwkc CadwTl' Ba,d , Wln ' Bcnf " n ' Bloodwortji, Brown,
S'c l r ( ? arr ,°,"' C, y-", Coles, Contee Floyd
„n,u n ' , < ? ry ' Goodh «. Griffin, Grout, Hartley, Hath-
H v, nt i," gt ° n ' J ackson ' Lcona.d,
Lr'nT' Mathews, Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Page,
Svl«fter Sm ff/ « t^ 0 "' Scd S wick . Seney, Sherman
% (M ) S,n,th I s - C ) Steele, Stone, Stur
g , Si mpte,, Thatcher, Trumbull, Vining, Wadfworth, White
NOES.
koop^fi nS 'M lln,an, r Sch^'; mi,n ' Tucker - w '"'amfon, Wvn-
P 6. Majontyfor Baltimore 47.
w.fhTr .nf T.l ' etC 'c Cd f,om / he Prdldcnt of'he United States
conftiiu.
W " r " c,ved , from 'he Senate, informing the House
the enquiry""wh il'° sdo P £ the rf P°'i °i the joint committee on
ceffaryfo l 'u? ,l> 7? d what furthe r ™le. maybe ne
llary for conducing bufinefc between the two houses. ■'
ria of omm ,h,' C r, h W r C ° n ,he b,U "Piling after the last
manufaA,, h<d , L " ] " sl ' eiCto L forc "fdondiKllled fpir.t. ot foreign
c *, a la y' n K others in their stead. g
pro , cecde j i *{" *' 'he. fo|ty-Teveoth feftion of
we bill-they then iofe, and the Chairman reported proerefa
Adjourned till Monday 10o'Clock '
from the Mdjjachuf'tts Magazine, for May, : 7 qo.
rpiH' Ft R - FRA NKLIk. 79
1 i, "? 8 arra wllh lon g encircling sweep,
if "'J golden compass drew around the deep :
And'thf billowi there thy waves bt {laid,
b ° u " ,He « rr " :
briln lightnings rend tV clc&ric cloud ;
•Jhfvn T'n 8 thundrrs bu 'ft ing roar aloud ;
Co f V IC i»r'i y ic,d -» ere, •
FRANKI.IV—hire My set vault are.
BOSTOM JUNE 5.
the Honf S>nate^ S ? LUTI ° N Came d ® wn from
application in ,?,' or concurrence, for making
to ASSUME THF Un ' St® l "
traced «furi„"L^ EB T OF T «IS STATE con
ftrudtioris to th,-s war—Together with in-
State, toufe,v < rrv C nr rS . ,n £°PPress'S refs ' from thi>
defame * eans,n theil ' power to effe«ft
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES
PUBLISHED
CONGRESS OF THE VyjTlD STATES
AT THE SECOND SESSION.
fou,th
I- 1 ""' *3
igiiiii
SS^Sasas^
ven hundred and eighty-nine, for the discharging the arrears of
P Thai he S C r PS °r th K '" ,C V ,f lhc fj ' d S"<efrefpXe
t,«n ,V ? aryof ,hc tre » fur >' cases where the payment
has not been made to the original claimant in perlan or to his
tolhe ■ '"I d ' rCftcd tlkc ° rd " tor n,aki!,g the payment
to the ongmal claimant, or tofuch person or perli.ns only as lhail
produce a power of attorney, duly aitrftcd by two justices ol the
!* "°h county, in which such pevfon or perlons reside, autho
rizing him or them to receive a certain fpecified fuin ■ Except
where certificate, or warrants have been idLd under authority of
he United States tor any of the fa, d„ rear, of pay, and the fame
I,c produced by the claimant or claimants.
I'REDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG
4 „ .{pcakir of the House ot Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, I Ke.PreJtdent oj the United States
and Prejident of the Senate
Approved. lune skviu/tu
(Tr of Cor E v^ ASHI NGTON ' 0j ""
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary oj State.
BURLINGTON, June i.
A correspondent takes the liberty of impreffiii£
upon the minds of the fanners, the utility of a
particular attention to the cultivation of potatoes.
r', e " the unfettltd Hate of Europe and
the Welt I nd.e s affords a fevorahJe and certain
maikct for all the grain an 3 flour we can furniih.
we should be attentive to cultivate those articles
which will leflen the confuniption ofgrain among
ourselves, and enable us to increase the export
to foreign countries—Potatoes are found to be
one of the molt wholelbme, cheap, and nutri
tious vegetables, either for the .ule of families,
cattle or hogs ; and the great improvements
made in the cultivation of them in America,
ought to animate us to every exertion for the
farther improvement of this important object of
aoineltic confuniption, as well as export.
COLUMBIA, May 12 .
Crtl7 h W y 'un' !i , « ,ened last WMk wi,hin a f«=wmiles of
Granby One Ballard wasaccufed of «ci,n R pigs belonzine to
,'h' B * T h ° P rocured a warram h"„, °bui he
abfeonded for three days, lo elude thepurfuit. li wils therefore
>fked t f J' T l ' W r' he " ightl >nd thcre hc was i bein»
117 ; Mr - R,lt 'y. Of the party"
p ed a gun thiough a holt in the wall, fretted at the cielinir to
mtM*! rf'rV JIi he 7" °k ftin «c—after forae expostulation.'the
gun difchargcd a second time, and the contents lodged in
Ballard s fide, who mllantly expired. A coroner's inqurll being
held upon the body, .eturned a verd.£t,-wilfui murdei.-Some of
burg " haVC bKn £omm " tcd "> Orange-
NEW-YORK, JUN£ 12, 1790.
M ednefday afternoon the PRESIDENT of the
U " D returned from Sandy Hook and
the filhing banks, where he has been for the be
nefit of the (ea air, and to amuse himfelf in the
delight!ul recreation of lifting. We are told
he had excellent (port, having himfelf caught a
great number of tea-bass and black-fifli—the wea
ther pioved remarkably fine, which, together
with the (alubrity of the ajrand wliolefome exer
cjle, rendered this little voyage extremely agree
able, and cannot fail, we hope, of being very ser
viceable to a speedy and complete relloration of
h,s hea,th - Daily Adv.
HONOR OUR RU L KRS," is a good politi
cal maxim, and more necellary inaßepublican go
vernment, than in any other. I wiih the Ameri
cans were more attentive to their duty— not only
numerous complaints are uttered against the mea
sures of Congress.but evil furmij/ings&wlpredictions.
One predicts they will consume a long feflion,
and disagree at last about the mode of doing the
business : Another, thinks they will dispute so
long about refideuce, as to preventtheaccompli/h
---inent of thegjreat national concerns : A third ap
prebends it is not their intention to establish pub
lic credit, but to waste one feflion after another
in speculations and intrigues for their private ad
vantage. How irrational is all this ? Afkany one
of these complainers and funnilers, if ke would
487
| art so unworthy and inconsistent a pare wc-
I " Con y*»; He v% i" confidently answer, NO'!
Let us defpile iuch cv.l infiauations againlt the
Representatives of our nation : They know the in
fi me importance of public credit, and of nation-
1 We ?"g hc -epofe intire t oufi
dence m thein and believe they pofTefs so gieat
a fpmt of wisdom and patriotism, that thev will
lation a s ° Ur " lUUll , llie - V have laid « f'uie^bun
bre h f lla "r , hai>|, ' mefs - and llke £ *»d
of one family, by the exercise of love
and candor, unite in a fyftcm for public felici'tv.
d:rti!!f nC f nS i W - «? CVer for Sec the impudent pre
infr rZ S T ° ry a " d Enti -' h enemies, dur
ing the revolution, " that they were incapable
of governing themfelves"_nor can thev forbear
despising the ,»cakncfs of £bme anxious' people
who farthe above prediction may come to pass,'
wS l T " 0t co,u p' cte d all their
u , „VT ° retln !f havi "S be€n 'Pentin national
KIWK c forming a fyftern for the efta
bhfhment of public credit, than some expetfted,
they are 1 eady to draw theworft conclufions—<up.
pole our reprelentatives will quarreldike children
I r" U " h ° uc accoin plilhing tlieir business.
Let us honor ourfehei too much to believe it pofli
le that we can be so deceived in the men to
iSi 7* aVC Co "' muted clle honor and happi
ricis or our country. *
Extra't if a letter from Dr Price, dated Hackney,
ret?. i > to a gentleman in this city.
talkedn/r a D ! rCOUr,e * which keen much
nft C : vY """ effuflo ' l of Ztal in
ca.de of human liberty and virtue- I can be con
fident that you vvill approve the spirit of it, and
the general sentiments it contains.
must probably feel the fame fatisfaclion
I htvefelr \r larC reVo,ution »' that
1 nave felt. It appears to me that most of the
eynts in the annals of the worldare but cliildiff,
tales compared with it—The United States of 1
merica have the glory of having led the way to it'
The New ConlWion of France deviates in
some respects from those ideas of the bell Confti
union of government which have been explain
"o'Lilnt' ™'" r °. " ,uc " *>*»>" <>«
de£ { v Conjlitutions"— bullhis
deviation, as f ranee is fuuatcd, seems to have
been unavoidable—for had not the ariftocratical
and clerical orders have been obliged to throw
themselves into one chamber with the commons
no reformation could have taken place, and the
regenerate of the kingdom would have been
impoflible-and in future legislatures were these
rd rr, l ° ,"' a^ e difti,Kt and independent
all that has been dune would probably be
'r;" d ° ne - Hereafter . perhaps, when the New
Constitution as now formed,has acquired ftrenath
by time, the National Aflembly may find it prfc
ticable.as well as expedient, to eftaftlifli, by means
in the A e^ 3tC ' ach e ck as now takes place
blein theH!va, goVern ' Uent ' and is
ule in the Bntilh government.
Remember me very kindly to Mrs ma v
you be long continued happy i„ one another
and in your connexions. 1 f ee l myfelfin the
decline of hie- an indolence is encreafing upon
me—and a disposition to be encumbered and bur
way VVuhevcr ? little business that con.esin.ny
The new federal government has I hqpe, new
acquired such a finu eftaMifljnjcut as will make
Hiffi J" 63 "* of extricating the United States from
happy renderin « them Prosperous and
* See Gazette, No. 107.
Y ■ 'iff "A? Utter f rom Boflon, Ju„ e 6.
hn« the P a l >ers what our leciflature
Sebts o ''t'S'c & ,hC Affiu »P*» of tie SI
debt,. The Governor's Speech has produced the
Refo.luMonthtiseariy. If the State debts are not
willbe the " ' n ktisfa ? ion ' and murmuring
wnlbe the inevitable confeguence in Maflachu
i- 1• ! ? r '! n t» that that open and patriotic
pol.cy which led America through a solemn war
may yet take her by the hand, f„d extricate
labors embarra lsments under which she now
We have had a large and refpe<ftable meetimr
l\ ell,er I,n j' nieclla " ics ' &c ' at Faneuil Hall
°, 1 r e I ag ; topet . kion the General Court for
finnedan/ , exclfe law— The petitions are
ugned, and are to be presented on Monday.
rT;.:'" 8 fro,n N ""™-
I never saw an oft-removed tree,
Nor yet an oft-removed family,
That throve so well as those that fettled be.
7 he Connecticut papers contain/ketches oftlte
M IU lhe . Ho , ufe of ßeprefentatives of that
state. No method that could be devised. can
serve so fully to enlighten the people in the
ll'S g„fde°, ° fthrir p«-
MARRIED] —In Bnfton, by the Rev Mr Parkir Haod
WrUt 1 " Efq - t0 Miss SA
SINC^ OUR LAST. NEW-YORK
Schooner ixpcnment, Smith, Suva,mah, .odays
' h 'P !-rpie. London, 39 d DVS ,
rr-iHE HO[°jsf C n" ' ' £•«'» immeiiattlZ
1 TURE will h, f'fr From \ re «- A H"t of "the FURNI-
X I L Kh, w.i/I be fold, on rcafonablc terms o<- j
the Tenant, if required. Apply on the premifo accommadale
June 12,1790.FArtLY TALK.
fj .V 1 U 1 T A T 1 0 N.)
CANTO IT. (Continued.)
" T>UT firft " h.- cried" remote tby spell,
JD " Without restraint my tale I'd tell ;
" The Magic ltraight did ctafc.
" Palemon of the dale am I,
'• Elwina's virtues caui'd the figli.
** Thatrob'd roc oi my peace.
* Elwlna deign'd to look on me,
<4 The firft of England's maids was (he
44 With wealth and beauty blest
4i Oh had the bten of low degree,
** Perhaps Oie had been doom'd to me*
<% And I to joy and reft.
- 4 Her father saw not with her eyes,
• 4 Nor birth, nor virtue did he prize,
44 But gold he priz'd fall dear ;
44 He proudly ihut bi; door on me—
44 But as I turn'd 1 chapc'4 to
" Elwina's trickling tui.
•' Nc'«r did I think till now (I cried)
" True,happinefs and wenlth allied,
" But now 1 fe#t 'tit truth \—
Far from my uaiive'clirac I'll roam,
■*!. Nor ever fee my pleakiK home,
" Or play nmtipf my youth.
" Till wealth and honors I have won,
" To fit me for Sir Malcolm's son,
44 And lov'd Elwina's Lor^. —
44 Ne more I thought, nor chang'd n*y m:nd,
4 » But Caur de Lion'i banners join'd
• 44 And drew my father's sword.
44 The Cross prevail'd we gain'd the land,
44 I rose in favor and command
" Lev'd by my King and Peers,
41 But now retumtng with my load,
41 By fortune and my King bellow'd ;
" I've loft the gain oif years.
« Two faifc friends arm'd my treasures bore,
41 Whilst I uai.bink.ing rode before,
4i The sorest ci Sour way :
" When night drew near, they lag'd behind,
t4 Withouten thought of bale defign'd
4< I rode till close ot day.
44 Then long I waited, till at last,
41 Diiv'n by the storm I this way past,
•« Witn doleful cause to *ue.
41 My steed was by the light'nin,; torn,
44 Thus rob'd—betray'd-—and all forlorn^
44 I crave relief from you !"
Well pleas'd the monarch cried 44 I find
44 Your form does not belie your mind,
" Both faultlefs, free, and fair ;
•• Sir Malcolm he is long tim« dead,
44 And on Elwina's beauteous head,
44 Hi« honors thow'red are.
" The gallant youth of England's land,
« Do strive to gain the fair one's hand,
44 But all do strive in vain ;
44 She Gghing breaches Pal«mon's name,
41 And still enquires of erring fame,
44 For tidings of her swain."
Ttcn Robin brought the witchen
And made before his een to pass,
What most he wilh'd to fee ;
on a costly bed was laid
The tender, lining, Aeeplefs maid
And all in teais was Hi".
?alcmon figh'd.and gaz'd and figh'd ;
When thus the Monarch blythly cricd—
" Robin, full quick away !
•' Waste no more lime ; there's much to do,
" My little merry fpntc for vou
" Betore the break of day.
" <So find the traitors out; quick. ! fly !
" Be Wtffitfk Will is either eye,
" And lodge ther.i in the swamp :
" Transport the treasure by thy pow'r
>' Hither all bring in half an hour,
" And give the thieveS the cramp."
No sooner.said than Robin's gone :
Meanwhile, good gifts on Palcmon,
Wiihouten end they (how'r 5
His cloaths is chang'd he knows not how,
Both warm and coltly too I trow,
By Fairy's magic pow'r.
Now in the midst, Pa lemon's (lore,
Was seen spread out upon the floor.
His valour's well carn'd prize ;
With gold and many a precious done,
Which, with such glaring luftrelhone,
A> dazzled Cwdden's eyes.
Quoth Puck " I left them in the bog,
" Each on his back, thrown like a In?,
• " With cramps and achs all o'er " —
" 'Tis well " the mighty monarch cricd—
" Thrice be tliefe rirhes multiply'd !
'« Thrice heap'd, Palemon't store !
" Thrice trebled be the caitiff's pain '
" Til done—now Robin quick again,
41 And finifti what's begun,
" Convey PaUinon and his {tore,
41 Where barm (hall never lind him more,
44 See our good wiihes done".
Then Robin took up Cudden's ftorc,
44 Throw this upon the heap for more '
He said, and held it hi^h.
Cudden (who still as mouse had bcen >
Down looking on the varied scene)
Uttered a dismal cry.
Pdlrmon look'd—but lo ! He found
Ilinjft.lf upon bis native ground,
With all his treafnre nigh :
Uwiwii's mansion full in view ;
The lovely maiden flill was true ;
l'altmon ceas'd to sigh.
The cock crew loud—the Fairies fled—
Down dropt dull Cudden on his head—
Thick darkness fill'S the dome :
There wet and cold he trembling lay,
Until he saw the break of day,
Then sorry fought his home.
This story oft my grannum told,
When winter's .winds without blew cold,
To eager lift'ning yiuth :
My boy fays ftic, when you're a naan,
Upon this tale form ye life's plan - t
, Love indujlry and truth.
THE £N».
LONDON, April 6.
LETTERS from Conltantinople mention that
lufuf Paclist, who was Grand Vizir the cam
paign of'i 788,andfince,Serafkier oflfmael,is again
appointed Grand Vizir to succeed the old Captain
Pacha, who has resigned. ,
About thirty years ago, Charles Marsh and
honest To 111 Payne bought a parcel of books in
conjunction ; among which were a shabby lei or
Tillotfou's works. The executors, in a prayer
book which they preferred, found these memo
randums :—Til. 201. page B—Til. 601. page
12.—Til.—tool, page 200. — Ijl. 7°l- P a £ e
90." On the death of the good Bishop Ho'udley,
it was mentioned in the papers, that the Bilhop
was the editor of Tillotfon's works, 3 v ols. folio ;
it diredtly struck the executors that the treasure
was in the Tillotfon they had fold, lheyimme
diately applied to the booksellers, and reco\ered
the Tillotfon, and with it the notes. What is
extraordinary, the Tillotfon had travelled to
Oxford, and to a gentleman at the Charter Houle,
and was returned asa bad copy. Old Jerry Dy
fon, of the House ofConimons, old Ms. Plum tree,
who formerly lived in Jermyn street, and Bifliop
Burnet, used to lay up their Banknotes in books.
Lord Stanhope's project was never to make
way againlt wind and tide. Such a project,
every man who has been at sea, or conversed
with sailors, knows to be utterly impracticable.
But the application of a force which, in a dead
calm, shall be able to move a veflel, is undoubt
edly a discovery of a great importance. In natural
calms,fliips are inevitably retarded for many days;
when,if they were able to make way through a tri
fling (pace of sea, they would be certain of find
ing a breeze. And, in naval engagements, when
an artificial calm almost always takes place, and
vefl'els besides are often disabled in their rigging,
what a vast advantage tochange lituation, inltead
of lying immoveable upon the water, raked and
torn by every ship of the enemy that partes.
FRANCE.
Extrafi of a letter from Perpignan, Feb. 19.
" A company of 120 men of the National
Guard formed, 011 Shrove-Tuefday, a kind of
proceilion that amused very much the inhabitants
of this town. At the head of it was seen waving
in the air a noble banner, on which was written
in large golden letters—Vive la Liberie ; every
one of the soldiers had wreaths of laurel and
flowers in his hands, and was singing, as they
inarched, a military song suitable to the cirenin
ftance. An uncovered waggon next followed
with emblems, garlands, and devices, of which
the 1110 ft confpicioos were—" Long live liberty,
the new Constitution, the Law, the King, the
National Aflembly, and the Patriotic Citizens
armed for the defence of the New Constitution,"
&c.—Wine was procured from tliecartothe peo
ple ; on the hogfliead was written—lt only floit's
for real Patriots. A hundred National Volun
teers came next and preceded a second waggon,
on which were seen aitaved cask with the inferip
tion—The Chefl oj privileges ; and a broken trunk,
with the words—The Chofl of Feudal rights, addres
sed to the Princes of Germany. After this second
waggon, appeared a man, l'uperbly drefled, lean
ing on two chained Haves—he was intended to
represent Aristocracy, and wore as an emblem a
mask with two faces—a numerous Court formed
his retinue; and when all the cavalcade arrived
at the moll frequented part of the town, they
were ordered t'» halt ; it was then proposed to
drinkto the health of our good King, Lewis XVI.
the Father of the people, and the restorer of
French liberty.
" Vivele Ro't was the general toast, followed
by shouts of joy, aud the flourifh of thirty mu
sicians ; during this effulion of genuine-mirth,
the man who reprelented Aristocracy was gnash
ing his teeth, and endeavouring to disturb th«
augult ceremony. The second toast was—Vfoe
L' s/ffemblse Nationale, the found of which was so
hearty and loud, that it quite overpowered the
inad efforts of the enraged Aristocratic figure, who
foaming at the mouth, never ceased to cry out—
No, no, 110! At the fame instant arrived a cabinet
courier, properly accoutred, who prefentcd a
packet to the commander—it was the speech of
his Majesty to the National Assembly on the 4th
instant, and a letter supposed to be written by the
President to the good people of Rouftillon ; the
second in command read it, in a clear audible
voicc, and at every word of comfort for the peo
ple, thefigure changed colour, and at the words
—Let us all profefs, I give you the example of it,on
ly one opinion, only one intercjl, and only one will
an attachment to the Confutation, &c.—he fell back
wards; some approached to raise him up and as
sist him, but thephyficians, after having examined
him andfelc his pulle, declared he was dead; to
keep up the mockery ofwoe,feveral perfonspre
fented tliemfelves in deep mourning, with weep
ers, &c. and followed the body, which was put on
a hearse, to the grave ; the moment that it dis
appeared, the commander in second proclaimed
that all our enemies were at an end, and ordered
a toast to be drank to peace and concord. The
music played an air suitable to so joyous a fubjetft.
Upvard of 10,000 persons were present.
f hey arc the King's word, in the Specch of tlie «[ J t b.
W. V.
488
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, lor the purpofcof railing 7) lou .
Jiind Five Hundred rovudi, agrcalilr'to an ACT of the.
lure of the Slate of New-York, palled Bt!i February, 1790.
SCHEME.
1 PRIZE of
x
3
10
3°
lvO
180
795°
166,54 Bfinkl, \ 2 5 ct,c T<ckcts, at 40s. each,
Subje£l 10 a Ucduftion of Fifteen per Cent.
THEobjcfl ofihis LOTTERY being taraife a part ofibetum
advanced by the corporation for repairing jliJ enlarging tIicCI
TY HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, which dira
so much honor to the Architect, as well as credit to the city. Tire
iTwuageis presume that their fellow Citi*en» -will cliceifu ly con
cur in promoting the falc of Tickets, especially as the success
this Lottery will relieve them from a tan, which inuft oihcrwiie
be laid to rcimburfethc corporation.
The above SCHEME is calculated in a mansiei very beneficial
to adventurers, there not Iwuig twp blanks to » prixt. i„- <
The Lottery u intended to commence drawing, on the {ttrfri
Monday in August next, or sooner it ftUed, of
notice will be gives. A lift of tin fortunate numbers wi(Ubco4)»
lilbed at the .expiration of the diaw^ng.
—■ « - _ L. /-n 1.. .l . r \ r ••
%*
Tickcu arc to be fold by the fubfcribcra, who arc Jpp Ota at
Manager! by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutineu rch, Abhaii am Hm*!**,
Pi rn T. Curtikius, John Pinta»b. I
Km-Ytrl,
Bethlehem Stages.
r great number of Miflrs, who fwirt the hanks of the Dchfc.
X ware Eaftward,cven to Boilon, are now at the young ladies
Academy at Bethlehem, render* some regular, convenient and
cheap mode ot conveyance betweeu thtfttown and ?few York nr»
ceiury. To accommodate parents whe have daughters atthat flou
rifiling Academy, and others who may wiih to visit that
romantic hill, the fubfcnbt'i* arc now running flakes, which urift
continue during the fummcr, brtween Elizabeth Town Point anrf
Bethlehem. At each of these places a ilage will (tail every Mon
day and Thuifday morning ;>t 5 o'clork, meet at Coveniiovcu's
tavern the fame evening, exchange pallcngcrs, and the uc.xt djy
return.
>are of each paflengrr from Elizabeth Town Point to Bnlile
hcin 3 doll«ii&—way paflengrrs per mile—4solb. of baggfge
the fame as a pafli-nuer. Packaqcs and letters wilJ l>e received and
delivered at Mrs. Winant's, Whitehall, where feats may beta
ken—carnage of a letter 3d —141b. oF baggage allowed to each
pa {li nger.
To accomodate ihofe who may wish to take Bethlehem in their
route in journevitiß between the Eaftcrn and Soutbenn a
ft«ige wiii coimamly run between Bethlehem and Philidclfh.a,
ilarting it Bethlehem every Monday morning.
May 19.
AIM:'ER TIE S\EXT.
BY order of the honorable John $loss Hobavt Esquire, oneof
the Julliccs of the Supreme Court of of the State
0} fc"cw-\ oik Notice is heicby given to Paul Devrell,now or
late of Lonj; Island, Esquire, an abfeonding debtor, and to
others whom it rnav concern, that upon application and due
proof, made to the fa d Jufticc, pursuant to an a£t of theJegifli
turr, entitled .in for relief again r c abfeonding and absent
debtors," palled the fourth day of April, 1786, by a creditor of
the said Paul Devrell, he the laid Jufticc haa dirrfbd allJiis the
laid Paul Dcyreli's Eflate, real and personal, wi'hio this State, to
be fei7.ed ; and that unless helball discharge his debts withto three
month* after the publication of this notice ; all his Estate real and
pcrfonal will be lold for the payment and fatisfaction of bis ere.
ditofi. Dated at the city ot New-York, the twenty-fevpnth day
of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand lcven hundred
and ninety. March 31. lawjm.
By Order of the Honorable Richard Morris, Esq. ChirJ fujlice oj ihc
State of Xew-Y&rk
NOTICE is hereby given to LewuM'Donald, of Conncftiout,
an abCrut debtor, that upon application and due proof made
to the said chief iuftice by a creditor oF the said Lewis M'Donald,
pursuant to an 2tt of the Lcgiflature of the said State, entitled,
*• An ast for relief againfl abfeonding and absent debtors," pas
sed the 4th April, ; he, the (aid chief jufticc, has dirt&ed
all the laid Lewis M'Donalds citate, within this (late, to be feu
ed, and that unless he (ball discharge his debts within twci..
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will be fold
for the payment of his creditors. Dated the May, 179°*
beio-York, May j t 1790. (xw.ty.)
r be Sold, an elegant dwelling house, in every circumftancc
X fitted for a gentleman with a large family, situated in a very
pleatant part of Elizabeth Town, New-Jersey. The lot con
tains abont four acres, on which is a very good garden, and a
variety of the bell fiuit trees. The terms of payment ran be made
so eafv as to suit the purchaser. Enquire of the Subicriber at No.
12, Wall-Street. ELI AS BOUDINOT.
June ?, ijgo,
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, near Ac
Fly-Market, „
WHERE they negociate all kinds of PUBLICS
SECURITIES— BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c..as ufiul.
ft'cw-Yori, April 8, 1790. -tt.
§ §
/. AND f
STATE SECURITIES, J
£ BOUGHT AND SOLD, C
V AT KO. 196. WATIft-»r»IET. Y
C />ricc will be given for Military Rights ef P
j and Jersey Paper Money. May 4* > J
Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA, „
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten minutds a- kC *
Light o'clock every -morning except Sunday.
Starr. OJfice, City Tavern, )
lijoad-Way t New-York June 5, 179°. S
Tlie
H E M E.
£.3000
1000
5" o
iOO
100
6°
£0
IO
4
£ 3°°o
idCCO
1 $66
i'-000
9.509
.420
iße©
31800
W'll LI AM CRANE.
FREDERICK. IiEUILL.