PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN fENNO,.No. 4 t, BROAD-STREET, N£AR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 16, cf Vol. ll.]
THE TABLET. No. CXX.
" It is not improbable that if all parts of the world
were equally enlightened by science, all nations
would embrace articles of faith, nearly fnntlar to each
other.' 1 -«
(Continuation of the arguments in support of the position, that the
universal diffufion of literature will precede aud prepare the
way ior the universal prevalence of religion.)
THO mankind, in their native date of igno
rance, have always Tome imprefiions of duty,
yet so incapable are they of reasoning, or think
ing beyond the reach of their senses, that the
founders of rriigious fyfteins have ever represen
ted the Supreme Being through the mfcdium of
images, a» the only method by which they could
gain credit with the fliort-fighted multitude. If
Mahomet be considered as an exception, and his
religion as an improvement upon rank idolatry,
this willaifift the argument; since it is well known
the Arabians had made great improvements in
several branches of literature, and of course were
fitted to embrace a religion more rational than
Paganism—With refpecl to Africa it is to be ob
served, that cliriftianity was never received in
that quarter of the earth, except by the nations
bordering upon the Mediterranean, which by
their intercourse with the Greeks and Romans,
had made some progress towards civilization.
The Greeks and Romans, it is true, previous
to the publication of christianity, were like the
reft of the world, wrapt up in the absurdities of
Paganifin, and doubtless the bulk of them reposed
implicit confidence in the myfteriesoftheZW/'Art:
Oracle. But in justice to the wiser part of tliofe
nations, wemuft allow, that they entertained as
rational ideas of a Deity, and of human obligati
ons, as the modern christians, in proportion to
their improvements in literature. And we may
venture to aflert, that, so far as *e are nble to
judge from their writings, the morality of So
cratrs and PtiTP Uir ts-ue proportion to
that of our best christian divines, as the phylical
knowledge of Hy pocratEs doesto that of Boer
have ; the mathematical inveftigatiohs of Arc
himt.des to those of Sir Issac Newton; or the
politics of Solon and Lycurgus to those of Fe
terthe G*eat, and of Mo n r esqu ie v. There
fore fettiug aside all regard to revelation, and
supposing morality to be a part of religion, this
remark proves, beyond dispute, that the progress
of religion, will naturally be proportioned to im
provements in literature.
I proceed to consider more particularly the
propagation of christianity, which will furni(h a
decisive argument in our favor, if we can prove
what appears to be true, that literature has, in
every instance, preceded the reception and esta
blishment of that religion ; and that wherever it
has been embraced, its general purity has ever
been proportioned to the national state of litera
ture.
It is a remark of all ecclefialiical hifl oriaiis, and
of all tire advocates of chriftiavtity, as a inoft in
conteftible proof of its divine origin, that it was
publiffaed at a time, and in a part of the world,
where mankind had made cli<° greatest proficiency
in human knowledge—where rliey were most ca
pable of comprehending the (fcblHriity of its doc
trines and precepts ; and of detecting the fraud
and expofingits absurdities. I would extend this
remark iiill farther, and observe that this im
provement of the human mind was a cirpuniftance
most favorable to the propagation of religion—
and that to this natural cause only cap weafcribe
its rapid and extensive diffufion, in opposition to
the malice and power of its enemies. Had the
Greeks and Ramans been a3 ignorant as the Hot.
tentots of Cafftavia, or as servile as the of
Indoßao, Nekv, '!>,* jrw and.Da mi it .an would
have crushed christianity in its infancy, with the
fame eafc, fhat Tamerlane could fupprefsit in
Alia. (To be cintinmed.)
DISCOURSES ON DA VILA.
This mortrnful truth is every ; wh*re confcfoVl,
Slow rifts Worth ky Poverty itpnfs'd.
A S no appetite in human nature is more uni
*■ verfal than that for honor, and real merit is
confined to a very few,, the numbers who thirst
for reijJeit, are out of all proportion to those who
leek it only by merit. Ihe great majority trou
ble themselves little about merit, but apply them
selves to seek for honor by means which they fee
will moreeafily and certainly obtain it ; by dis
playing their taste and address, then- wealth anjl
No. VIII
coNcmsm
SATURDAY, JUNE 5, 179°?
magnificence ; their ancient parchments,pictures,
and statues, and the virtues of their ancestors ;
and if these fail, as they seldom have done, they
have recourse to artifices,difiimulation,hypocrify, ]
flattery, impoftnre, empiricifin, quackery and
bribery. What chance has humble, modest, ob
scure and poor merit, in futh a fcra-mble ? Na
tions,perceiving that the still faiall voice of merit
was drowned in the insolent r< . • of such impos
tures: and that they were cwi''antly the dupes
of impudence and knavery, in national elections,
without a polfibility of a reiliedy, have fought
for something more permanent than the popular
voice to designate honor. Many nations have
attempted to annex it to land, presuming that a
good estate would at least furniih the means of a
good education ; and have resolved that thdfe
who ihould poflefs certain territories, ihould have
certain legillative, executive and judicial powers,
over the people. Other nations have endeavor
ed to connect honor with offices ; and the names
and ideas at least of certain moral virtues and in
tellectual qualities have been by law annexed to
certain offices, as veneration, grace, excellence,
honor, serenity, majesty.—Other nations ha+e at
tempted to annex honor to families, without any
regard to lands or offices. The Romans allowed
none, but those who had polfelfed curule offices,
to have statues or portraits. He, Whc*. had ima
ges or pictures of his ancestors, was called noble.
He who had no statue or picture but his own,
was called a new man. Those who had none at
all, were ignoble. Other nations have united all
those ihftitutions : connected lands, offices and
families—made them all delcend together, and
honor, public attention, conlideration and con
gratulation along with them. This lids been the
policy of Europe : and it is to this institution
which she owes her fnperiority, nwaraud peace,
in legislation and commerce, in agriculture, na
vigation, arts fciencesand niami "actures, to Asia
and Africa. TheP: families il.'m diftinguifhcd
by property, honors and privileges, by defend
ing themselves have been obliged to defend the
people agaiult the encroachments of despotism.
They have been a civil and political militia, con ■
ftantly watching the designs of the standing ar
mies, and courts ; and by defending their own
rights, liberties, properties and privileges, they
have been obliged,in fame degree,to defend thole
of the people. iJut there were several eflential
defects in this policy : one was that the people
took rto rational defend themselves,
either against these great families or the courts.
They had no adequate reprefenration of them
selves in the fovereiguty. Another was that it
never was determined \v'a 'e the sovereignty re-,
sided—generally it was claimed by Kings; but
not admitted by the nobles. Sometimes every
Baron pretended to be sovereign in his own ter
ritory-; at other times the sovereignty was claim
ed by an aflembly of the nobles, under the name
of States or Cortes. Sometimes the United au
thority of the King and the Stares was called the
sovereignty. The common people had no ade
quate and independent (hare in the legislature,
and found themselves harrdfled to difeover who
was the sovereign, and whom they ought to o
bey, as much as they ever had been or could be
to determine who had the ntoft merit. A thou
sand years of Baron's wars, cauling universal
darknels, ignorance and barbarity, etlded at last
in simple monarchy, not by express stipulation,
but by tacit acquiescence, in aluioft ail Europe ;
the people prefering a certain -sovereignty in a
single person, to endless disputes, about merit and
sovereignty, which never did and never will
produce any thing but ariftocratical anarchy ;
and the nobles contenting themselves with a fecu
rity of their property privileges, by a govern
ment of fixed law-s, registered tvnd interpreted
by a judicial power, which they called fo-Vereign
tribunals, thpugh the legislation and execution
were in a single person. In this system to con
troul the nobles, the church joined the Kings and
common people.
The progress of reason, letters aiul isience,
has weakened the church and ftrfengthenpd the
common people ; who, if they,are lioneftly asd
prudently c'ondudled by thafe who hav-e their
confidence, will moll infallibly obtain a ihare in
every legillature. But if the common people are
advifedto aim at colletiing the whole sovereignty
in single national aflembUes, as they are by the
Duke de la Rochefoucault and the Marquis of]
Cordercet ; or at the abolition of the Regal ex
ecutive authority ; or at a division of the execu
tive power, as they are by a posthumous publics-
477
I tion oftheAbby de Mablv, the/ will fail of their
I delired liberty as certainly as emulation and ri
valry are founded in human nature and inlepara
ble from civil affairs. It is not to flatter the paf
fidns of the people to be sure, nor it; it the way to
obtain a present enthusiastic popularity to tell
them that in a single aflembly, they will act as
arbitrarily and tyrannically as any despot, but
it is a sacred truth, and as demonstrable as any
proposition whatever, that i sovereignty in a iin
gle aflembly must neceflarily, and will certainly
be exercised by a majority as tyrannically as any
sovereignty was ever exercised by Kings or No
bles. , And if a ballance of paffipiis and interest
is not fcientiflically concerted, the present strug
gle in Europe will be little beneficial to mankind,
and produce nothing but another thoul'and yerrs
of feudal fanaticifm under new and strange names.
Extract from a fpeculatkn ftgmd Caud'tdus in the
Farmer's Journal of May 17.
WHY is so mu'ch attention paid to trifling me
morials ? They are not matters ef general
concern. And why Ihould we (upport men at Con
gress to trifle away their time upon them ? The*
anfwertoqueltionsof this kind is obvious. Justice
is uniform. It is the fame wheil adininiftered to
an individual, a state, or a nation. If all contri
bute to the eftabliflimerlt and support of govern
ment in order that their persons and properties
may be protected : Have not ill a demand on gov
ernment for that protection ? The reciprocal
rights arid duties of the people, and the supreme
power of a nation constitute substantial justice.
There is a mutual dependence between the lu
preme power and the people. And since the
whole government is compol'ed of individuals,
does it appear inconsistent that individuals Ihould
be heard in thi public councils ? Much depends
on public Opinion in matters relating to govern.-
tnent. Some deference therefore liiould be paid
to it. In ordir .tb the confidents of the peo
ple they must be fully convinced that theit memo
rials and petitions will be duly attended to when
they are not directly repugnant torhe interest and
Welfare of the community. And better would it
be sot government, to expend 100 dollars in an
attempt to do justice to a man, or body of men,
than for them to defraud either of them ot 10
dollars by a direct relufal <of justice."
CONGRESS.
House of representatives.
THURSDAY, MAY 13.
Vn the proposition to encreafe the duty if tonnage on foreign bottom
MR. Madison said that he was friendly to the proportion,
as itsobje&was an extension ot the Anierican navigation,
but had very great doubts whether it would answer the design of gen
tlemen so far as it was pbinted against that nation, whose shipping
most interfered with the American shipping; we cannot at prefeflt
enter into a full competiori with theßritifh nation in this bufmefs.
—He entered into a general confederation of the influence this en
hanced duty would have on the navigation Of the European nai
tions—and doubted much the policy of laying this duty ori the
(hipping of France: By some reccnt tranfattions it appears that
oui commercial advantages with some of the powers of Europe
will be greatly encreafcd ; the trade of France will probably be of
three times the benefit to the United States with that of any other
commercial country whatever. He gave a detail ttf the encourage
aient which France gave to the oyl bufmefs, and in this encourage
ment he intimated that sentiments of friendfllip were mingled with
those of interest and policy—the exportation of tobacco to that
kingdom is an object of very great importance ; rice is another ar
ticle, which begins to be received under great advantages there ;
floUr and grain will always in 4 or 5 years find a great derriand in
that country ; this is at present thecale, and frorti the {late ot the
harvests from time to time the fame will frequently happen ; the
preference they give to (hips arid vessels biiilt in the United States
should be taken into consideration—this is a very important branch
of bufmefs—fait provision will become anothet- article of export—»
advantages of which will felt by the mod interior and re
mote parts of this country. The French Weft-India Islands
admit our veflelg ; it is true the access is contratted, but experi
ence wiU continue to point out their true policy; still the mode of
carrying on commerce with those islands 14 very advantageous to
us, as it is carried on in our own bottoms.—He much doubted the
eligibility of the measure as it might conduce to influence the na
tions of Europe to make a common cause of the reftri&ions laid
iridifcriminately on the maritime powers of Europf*.
The great object of this Qpeech wais a difcrimuiatlon between
BritiAi and other foreign (hipping of nations not fa alliance, and
that of those which are---andpurhiing the idea further he observed,
that a consuming country has tne advantage over a naanufa&uririg
country; wecan do better without Great-Britain than they can do
without us ; articles of luxury may be retrenched with advantage.
He attended to the objeftioafrom the Southern States who are
so deeply connected with the Britifli; said it was to ike lamented
that mcafures calculated to promote the general good ihotild mili
tate with any particular interdl—a maritime force in cafe of war is
the only hope of the Southern States—not that he was in favor of
a navy—but the eligibility of an increase of those resources which
might be converted into such a marine force as would be absolutely
necessary on such an emergency, must be obvious to every one.—
In cafe of war the Southern States would be the ftrft obje£l of at
tack.
The Squthern States may build fliips and ia this bufmefs enjoy
fame advantages over all the reft. There are cases in which it is
better to do nothing than not to da a great deal—b? intimated
[Whole No. 120.]that it might fee good policy to inWrdift the vtlTcli of all nations,
from carrying our produce
Mr., Fitzfimons obfervcd that the question was fully agitated
the last feflion—he was one ot those who were in favor of the dif
-crimination at that time—but he now greatly doubted the pro
priety ol the measure. France does not turnifh Hups in fuchnum
bers as to make it any great object with them to be exempted.—
thole measures which ase calculated to diminish the navigation of
lier rivals, she would" consider as an indemnification for the en
hancement of the duty on her own—With the additional heavy
tonnage n«w proposed, Great-Britain has so great a surplus o
Hhipping, that foe cannot employ them so advantageously in an\
way, as in the trade of America. America is the best fo
reign market that Great-Britain has: This every man may be
convinced of who looks at what cpvers him. He instanced a nam
ber of articles (cfpecially lumber) which Great-Britain is abso
lutely dependent on America for—and (he has no market for up
wards of four millions gallons of rum bt* the United States ;
The sale of this rum is a source of greater profit than all her other
"Well-India trade. We enjoy great and encreafmg commercial
advantages, from the adoption of the constitution. I should be
extremely sorry to risk these advantages by adopting the motion. '
and if this is to be a condition of enhancing the tonnage. I flia.l
as at present informed, vote against it.
Mr. Ames in oppotition to the motion, observed, that from the
introductory observations of the gentleman, he anticioared some
thing which would conduce much to the advantage of our allies—
Lut it had terminated in a proportion to teftify ourgratitude to
that nation, which in any event cannot be nrioh benefited by the
difcrim.nation proposed, it it should be adopted. Adverting o
■what had bern said upor treat ct. He doubted whether any
treaties were of any advantage to us, and therefore h
was not solicitous to have them increased. Our (hips are at pre
sent (notwithlkaiiding the treaty) admitted with almost as much"
facility into the Brittfhas into the French Island*. The great de
sign in the increase of the tonnage, is to incrcafe our own naviga
tion—"jbut the gentleman's plan is to teftify our gratitude to o 1
«lltes, by waging a commercial war with nations not in treat).
Thequeit on the last feflion was thoroughly discussed-, and he ho
ped that it would not be renewed the prefent—cfpecially when
it is coniid"red that the other house weTe so strongly agamll it.
2f wc make a diitin&ion here ; we ought to carry it through, an-'
Jeffen the duties in other inftnnces.
NEW-YORK, JUNE 5, 1790.
At a Triennial General Meeting of the CINCINNATI,
held in ihe city ojPhilao&lphi a, in the Month oj May lajl, the
following Officers mere unanimously elected:
PRESIDENT-GENERAL,
tHis Excellency Georce Washington, Esq. late ComrtiaYidcr
in Chief of the Armies of the United States.
VICE-PRESIDENT GENERAL,
Major-General Thomas Mifflin.
SECRETARY-GENERAL,
Major-General Henry Knox.
ASSISTANT-SECRETARY-GENERAL*
Major William McPherson
THEfollozuing ADDRESS zoas prefevted tolfie President of the United
States, on Tuesday la/l,byaCommittee t conjijling of Gen. KNOx,Crn.
Matthews,Co/. Gu nn, (01. Hawki ns,Co/. W. S. Smith, Gen.
Ci arkson, and Col. Humphkiys, appointed for that purpofe > at
the general me ting of the State Societies of the Cincinnati.
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES
AMERICA,
SIR,
X 7E, the Delegates of the State Societies of the Cincinnati, *f-
V V fembled at our triennial General Meeting, congratulate you
on being unanimously ele&ed the Head of our rising Republic.
As a part of the Community, we felicitate our Countrymen on
this happy event, and we embrace the firft opportunity of expref
fmg our fentim an, with no lcf* zeal than fincerity>
When we fay we loV« and revere you as a Father, Ve not only
speak the language of our own hearts, but we {peak the language
of all who have fought, fuffered, and conquered under your com
mand. Were poverty, and conicioufnefs of duty our only recom
mence, still fliould we glory in the part we have acted. For our
motives, as they regarded our country, will afford us fatisfaftion,
as well through th vicissitudes of life, as in the moment of diflolu
tion. As Mrmbers of our Infiitution, ort a former occasion, we
appealed to H< aven, and ouro>yn Hearts for the purity of our in
tentions :—Our f< llow-citiz nj will witness, thai the conduct of
the Officers and Soldiers <&f the late American Armies, has not been
Jcfs patriotic in Peace, than it wa* glorious in War.
A good Constitution was the object for which we risked our
Jives, and experienced onparralleled difficulties. We are happy
in the convi&ion that our views 3tc answered in the present Go
vernment of the United States :—While we applaud the wiTdom of
our Countrymen in placing you at the head of it, we pledge our
ielves to fuppoit its admimfiration withthe remnants of lives long
fioce devoted to chepubltc service.
We need not enumerate yonr titles to the gratitude of your
country ; or echo, in the fuffrages of our particular Constituents,
the public sentiment. But w«* may fay, that we fee with exultn
tion our Countrymen beginning to reap the fruits of Indepen
dence under the auspices of the Person, who was more instrumen
tal than any other in its establishment. May you as a reward for
your services enjoy length of days, and every temporal blessing,
and may such blellings be a prelude to cvedafting felicity.
Signed in behalf ojthe General Meeting,
T. MIFFLI N,
Vice-Presiden t-G en era l .
fkiU&tphia, May 1790.
t A+test. ■ ■
: H. XNOX, jSit^fary.Central;
To the DELEGATES of the STATE SOCIETIES
of the CINCINNATI, lately aflembled at their
Triennial Meeting,
GENTLEMEN,
ALTHOUGH it is easier for you to conceive, than fdrme to ex
plain ihe pleating frnfations which have been excited in my
breast, by yourcoiigrttuUtions on my appointment to the head of .
this ri&njj; Republic : Yet I mutt take the liberty to thank you sin
cerely for the polite manner in which you felicitate our Country
men, and teftify you' regard to me on this occasion.
In addition to that reward for your fufferings and frrviceawhich
arises from the consciousness of having done your duty, you have
Monuments more expreflive of your merits than even th' .
universal applaufeof your Country, in the establishment of its Inde
pendence and Sovereignty. Nor fhouldany poflible circumstance s
of poverty or adverfny compel you to give up that sweet fatisfa&i- -
on for the part vou-4iave ailed, which ought to attend you as well ;
<hc yiciflitudes of life as in the moment of dissolution.
The candour of your fellow-cii zens acknowledges the patri
otic of yourtonduft in pcace. as t heir gratitude has declared the?r '
obligations for your for' itude and perseverance in war—A know
ledge i hat they now do jijiLi~e so the purity of your intentions
pught to be your higheifc confolaVon, as the fa£t is demonftraiive
yocrgreatcft glory.
CINCINNATI,
The objeA for which your gallantry encountered ctery din
ger, and your virtue sustained unparalleled difficulties, has happily
been attained. A government, promiiing protection and prospe
rity to the People of the United States, is eftabliflied ; and its ope
rations hitherto have been luch as to juftify the most sanguine ex
pe&ations of further fuccefs—lt was naturally to be expelled, that
lives which had long since been devoted on the Altar of Ireedom,
could never be offered at the Shrines of Anarchy or Despotism —
And the offer which you. make of the refid'JC of those.lives to sup
port the Administration of this Government is not less a proof of
its excellence, than an encouragement for those concerned in its
execution to use their best endeavours to make it a lource of ex ten
sive and permanent bleflings to their Country.
Whatever titles my military services may have given me to
the regard of my Country, they are principally corroborated by
the firm fupportof my brave and faithful atlociates in the field :
And, if any consideration is to be attributed to the fuccefsful exer
cise of my civil duties, it proceeds, in a great mcjfure,from the
wisdom of the Laws, and the facilitv which the difpofiiion of my
feilow-cuizens has given to their administration.
To the- most affedlionate wiihes for your temporal happinck,
I add a fervent prayer for your eternal felicity.
G. WASHINGTON.
(CIRCULAR.)
To the STATE SOCIETIES of the CINCINNATI,
Gentlemen,
HAVING made choice of all our officers for the three ensuing
years, as will appear bv the enclosed certified lifts ; and hav
ing completed all the I ifinefs before us, we could not, however,
f parate without addrellmg you, on the situation and proipefcl of
the affairs ol the United States.
Withhearts filled wujilovetoour native climes, and gratitude
to the author of every good gift, who has caftout Idtin such pl-a
fant placet ; we rejoice that our countrymen m rapidly recbv.r
---i ig from the calamities occasioned bv the lata war, and that they
are at last favored with -a government which will probably secure
tl-thera the enjoyment of all the benefits they had a right to expect
from the revolution. Already We percerveihatagriculture, com
merce, rhanufattures, private happiness andpoblte prosperity, en
rreafe in a wonderful manner, under the auspicious influence ps
•his government. And from a view of all the ciicumftances, we
irejuftißed in a belief, that our profpefi of felicity is as fair as that
of any nation under heaven.
While we recall to rnind that you were the Chiefs of that glo
rious baad of heroei, who merited and obtained the diftinguiflird
appellation of the PATRIOT ARMY, we feel all the endear,
ments of our former connexion recur with redoubled force. The
world considered that charafier as the belt guarantee for your
future eondufl. Nor has your condufl ai any time deceived the
mofc fangnrae expe&ations nt the friends of freedom.
The general tenor of your behavior, fmce the war, and parti-
I during the. period in which the present government was
| formed and eteblimed, has been so perfectly unexceptionable,
and so entirely conloftant to your profeflions, as to entitle ybu to
the univtrfal approbation of your fellow-citizens.
It gives us inexpteflible pleasure to find.tbat the unraafonable
and illiberal clamour, which at one moment had been excited a
gainst our institution, has totally subsided.
The accounts which we annually fee'from all parts of the con
tinent of the manner in which you celebrate the declaration of In
dependence, on the fourth day of July, the day fixed for.your
State meetings, afford us The reasons for
the recognitiefa of that feftivafare so obvious »nd important, that
we hope yton will ever continue to consider that day, as a day of
Thanksgiving. , , ,
_ We presume not to give yoa any advice, for the regulation of
the internal concerns of your focietirs. But we are persuaded that
you will do good to all men, whenforver and wheresoever op
portunities will perhtu ; arid particularly that you will, to the ut
most of your ability, alleviate the penury and diftrefles of those
who have borne with you the burden of the war. As many in
rtances have already occurred of widows, orphans and unfortunate
members of your focietres, who claim and receive support from
your beneficence, it behoves you to place your funds upon the
best possible footing, to accomplish the,truly benevolent and fra
ternal purposes for they were intended. Sii|ce it is but
too justly to he apprehended, that the number of persons who
will be entitled to yoalr alfiftance will rather encreafe than dimiuifh.
We mod ardently desire, that the character of the Cincinnati
may continue to be lefpefted-, in consequence of. their completing
the glory of foldicrs, by acting well the part of citizens. With
this objefl in view, we doubt not that you will afliduoufly culti
vate all the virtues of peaceable and patriotic citizens, especially
industry, frugality, honesty, and a fixed determination to support
the government of your country.
It if necefTary for the Ulterior arrangement* of our society *
large, that you should transmit to our Secretary General, accurate
returns of the perfonscompofing your State Societies, as soon as
they can be conveniently completed.
We forward to you by this conveyance, the copy of an ad»
dTef, which we presented to the Present of the United States, to.
gethtrr with his answer. It now only remain-for us to commend
you to the holy keeping of Almighty God ; and to wilh you eve
ry blefling which your own hearts can desire.
DONE in our General Meeting, at the City of Philadelphia,
* this Fourth day oj May, 1790. '
Attest
H. KNOX, Secretary-General*
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
PUBLISHED
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Gcgun and held at the city of New York, on Monday the fourth
iVt arv ' ° nf reven hundred and ninety
AN ACT for the Encouragement of Learning,
by fecunng the Copies of Maps, Charts and
Books, to the Authors and Proprietors of fucli
Copies, during the times therein mentioned
Wo!'" a r J l l' Se Z' e ani " 0u r <0 J K'pr'fiw™ of the Uiwted
AJ States of Amenca m longrcfs ajjemhled. That from and after the
- -trig of this ast, the author and authors of any map, chart book
>r books already printed withm theft United States, being a ci
% thereof, or ref.dcnt within the fame, hi, <A h ° " r
•executors, adm.n.ftrators or assigns, who hath or h«e'not tranf
478
T. MIFFLIN,
Vice-President-Gen*ra»
ferred tb any other perfdn the copy-rigtit of fpch map, chart t> -
or books,(hare or Oiafes thereof ; and any other person or n« f°°*
being a citizen or citizens of these United States, or residents th° nS '
io, his Or their executors, administrators or. afligns, who hath**"
have purchased or legally acquired the copy-right of any such
chirt, book or books, in order to print, reprint, pubhfh or v a'
the lame, (hall have the sole right and liberty of printing. repr j f
ing, publishing and vending such map, chart, book or book! fo--
the term of fourteen years from the recording the title thereof '
theClerVsOfficeasishereinafterdircfted : And that the author''and
authors of any map, chart, book or books already made aud com
posed, and not printed or pubh(hed, o* that (hall hereafter be
made and composed, being a citizen or citizens of these Un ; tcri
States, or resident therein, and hjs or their executors, administra
tors or afligns, shall have the sole right and liberty of printin a
printing, publifhins and vending such map, chart, book or books"
tor the like term of fourteen years from the time of recording th'
title thereof in the Clerk's office as aforcfaid : And if, at the ex
piration of the f.ud term, the author or authors, or any of them"
be living, and a citizen or citizens of these United States, or refi'
dent therein, the fame exchifive right shall be continued to hi
or them, his or their executors, administrators or afligns, f or th*
further term of fourteen years : Provided, he or they°(hjll cauf
the title thereof to be a fccond time recorded and publilhed
the fame manner as is hereinafter directed, and that within f l?c
months before the expiration the firft term of fourteen vea
aforefaid.
And be it further enafled, That if any other person or perform
from and after the recording the title of any map, chart, book "
books, and publtfhing the fame as aforcfaid, and within the times
limited and granted by this.ast f shall print, reprint, publift or i m
port, or caufcto beprinted,reprinted, published or imported, troni
any foreign kingdom or state, any copy or copies of such ma
chart, book or books, without the consent of the author or pron
ctor thereof, firft had and obtained in writing, signed in the L "
fence of two or more credible witnefles ; or knowing the fame tr>
be so printed, reprinted, or imported, (hall publish, fell, orexpofe
to (ale, or cause to be publilhed, fold, of cxpofed to sale, anv con/
of such map, chart, book or books, without such* consent firft hai
and obtained in writing as aforefaid, then such offender or offend
ers (hall forfeit all and every copy and copies of such map, chart
book or books, and all and every sheet and (heets, being part of the
fame, or either of them, to the author or proprietor of such man
chart, book or books, who shall forthwith destroy the fame : And"
every such offenderand offenders, shall also forfeit and pay thefuir*
of fifty cents for every sheet which shall be found in his or their
pofleflion, either printed or printing, published, imported, or ex
posed to sale, contrary to the true intent and meaning of this ast
the one moiety thereof to the author or proprietoi of such map'
chart, book, or books, who shall sue for the fame, and the other
moiety thcre<>£ to and for theufe of the United States, to be reco
vered bv action of debt in any court of record in the United States
wherein the fame is cognizable. Provided always, That such action
be commenced within one year after th cause of action shall arise
and not afterwards.
. And be it further tnaclti, That no person (hall be entitled to the
benefit of this ast, in cases where any map, chart, book or books
hath or have been already printed and published, unl<ffs he (hall
firft deposit, and in all other cases, unless he shall before publica
tion deposit a printed copy of the title of such map, chart, book
or books, in the clerk's office of the diftrift court where the au
thor or proprietorfhall reside : And the clerk of such court in
hereby directed and required to record the fame forthwith, in
i book to be kept by him for that purpofe,_in the words follow
ing, (giving a copy thereof to the fdid author or proprietor, under
the seal of the couit, if he shall require the fame) Diilri&of
to wit : Be it remembered, That on
day of in the
vear of the independent* of the United Slates of America, A. ff.
of thefaid diftrift, hath deposited in this office the title of a map,
chart, book or books, (as the cafe may be) the right whereof he
claims as author Or proprietor, fas the cafe may he) inThc wou\s
following, to wit : [here insert the tithe J in conformity to the ast
of the Congrcfs of tiie Uarted States, intitled, "An ast for the
encouragement of learning, by fecurin£ the copies of maps, charts
ind books, to the authors and proprietors of Cuch copies, during
'he times thereia meutiooed." C. D. Clerk of the diftrift of
/' For which the said clerk (hall
be entitled tojeceive sixty cents from the said author 01 proprie
tor, and sixty cents for every copy under seal actually given to
such author or proprietor as aforcfaid. And such author or pro
prietor shall, within two months from the date thereof, caufea
copy ofthe said record to be published in one or more of the
newspapers printed in the United States, for the ipace of four
weeks.
And be it further enabled. That the author or proprietor of any
such map, chart, book or books, shall, within fix months after the
publishing thereof, deliver, or cause to be delivered to the Secreta
ry of State a cqpy of the fame, to be prefcrved in his office.
And be itfurther enafled, That nothing in this ast ihall becen
ftuied to extend to piohibit the importation or vending, repruit
ing or publishing within the United States, of any map, chart, book
or books, written, printed or published by any person not a citi
zen of the United States, in foreign parts or places without theju
rifdiftion of the United States.
Andbe it further enabled, That any person or perfohs who (hall
print or 'publish any manuscript, without the consent and appro
bation of the author or proprietor thereof, firft had and obtained as
iforefaid, (if such authoi or proprietor be a citizen of or relident in
their United States) (hall be liable to fuffer and pay to the said au
thor or proprietor all damages occasioned by such injury, to be
recovered by a special action on the cafe founded upon this ast, in
any court having cognzance thereof.
And be itfurther enafled. That if any person or persons (hall be
fijed or prosecuted for any matter, ast or thing done under or by
virtue of this ast, he or they may plead the geueral lfTue, and give
the special matter in evidence.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Reprcfentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, F? ce-PreJident oj the United States.
and President of the Senate.
Approved, May thirty-mrit, 1 79 0-
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Present ofthe United Slates.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of Statu
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESEN TA TIVES.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2.
I ? E c House a ß reed 10 fin "P th<l blanks in the Funding Bill.
I he firft blank, refpeftmg the loan that is to be negociated so
the payment of thr foroign debt, is limited to a furti not exceed
,r, o 12,000,000 dolhrs, with a reservation that the United States,
pav the fame within 15 years, if they shall think proper so to do.
The loan for the domestic debt to be opened on the firlt day
of September next, and to continue open till the firft day o£ Au
gust 1791.
,1 • '
Non fubfcrihing creditors are to produce the evidences of ilifir
debt to the commissioners, previous to June i, 179'. orcltr
that the fame may be cancelled, and new certificates ltfued
The faiarits of the commiflioners, was then fixed as follow*.
Dollars.
The commiilioner for the state of New-Hampshire,
The cooim Oionerfor the state of Maflachufetts, '-5 00
The coinmiflioner for the state of Connecticut, l9oe
The commissioner for the state of New-York, 1 J ca
Trr*?"*- ■*'she commiflioner for the state of New-Jersey,
The commiflioner for the state of Pennsylvania,
The commiflioner for the state of Delaware,
The commiflioner for the state of Maryland,
The commiflioner for the state of Virginia,
The commiflioner for the state of North-Carolina,
The commiflioner for the state of South-Carolina,
The commiflioner for the state of Georgia
The bill was then read a third time, and palled.
The House went into committee and made further progress in
the bill on fettling the accounts the United States and in
dividual dates.
On motion of Mr. Gerry, the House came to an unanimous
vote " that the members of this House, from a fincerf desire of
Ihewing every mark, of refpeft due to the memory of Thcoiorick
Htnd deceased, late a member thereof, will go in mourning lor
him one month by the usual mode of wearing a crape round the
left arm."
Mr. Sedgwick of the committer, appointed for the purpose,
brought in a bill for giving effe& to the laws of the United States,
in refpeft to the state of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations,
which was read the firft time.
Mr. Carroll brought in the report of the committee on the pe
tition of J. F. Amelung, refpetting a glass manufaftorv in Mary
land, proposing a resolution to the consideration ofth* house, for
the purpose of giving power to the Secretary of the Treasury to
make a loan of 8000 dollars,upon the fecuiily of the faidAmelung.
THURSDAY, JUNE 3.
The bill for giving effect to the Laws of the United States in rr
fpeft to the state of Rhode-lOand was rod thr second time and
ordered to be engrossed for a third leading to morrow.
Mr. Gilman informed the House that the Committee of enrol
ment had examined the bill for granting relief to Thomas Jenkins
and Co. the Speaker ligned the fame.
The bill for the relief of Nathaniel Twining in cert ain cases,
was read thefirft time.
On motion of Mr. Carrol the report of the feleft Committee on
the petition of J. F. Amelung was taken into consideration and
after fomc debate, was rejected—the report was advocated by
MelTrs. Carrol, Senty, Stone. Boudinot, Vining, Ames and Gtrry, and
oppofcd by McfTrs. Smith (S. C.J Sherman, Sidgwkk, Jtckfon and
Livermorc.
In Committee of the whole—on the bill providing for the fet
tlcment of lhe Accounts between the United States and individual
States—further progress was made in the difcuflion of this bill—
sundry amendments agreed to, and federal clauses expunged—the
Committee rose reported progress. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, JUNE 4.
The cngrofled bill for giving efteft to the laws of the United
States as therein mentioned, in reljpeft to the State of Rhode-liland,
and Providence Plantations was read the third time and pafled.
Mr. Sedgwick of the committee appointed for the purpofc,
brought in a bill for establishing the Judicial Courts of the United
States, in the State of Rhode-Island—read the firft time.
A message was received from the Preiident of the United States,
the house that he had given his aflent to an ast for
giving efftft to an ast entitled 41 An ast to eftablifli the judicial
courts of the United States, in the ftateof North-Carolina.
An ast supplemental to the aftfor establishing the salaries of the
executive officers of government, their afliftants and clerks.
An ast for finally adjusting and fatisfying the claims of Frede
rick William de Steuben.
The house then went into a committte of the whole, on the
bill pAviding for the settlement of the accounts between the
United States and individual dates.
The committee nearly finiftiedthe difcufiion when they rose and
the chairman reported progress.
Mr. Madison moved that the committee of the whole should be
lroin any further itrAceuditig on tWitbilJi thi# motion
bring adopted, the bill will be' up in the fioufe.
Adjourned till Monday.
BOSTON, May 29.
The following Message is in a tone of lan.
guage, which our august Ally, Lewis 16, has not
made life of for some time pall:—lt augnrs a re
turn of his authority:
Yesterday * v: "g» •
tOthePrefident of the Aflembly : . _
"I am furpriled, Sir, that the Aflembly hns noi
taken into deliberation the proposals which have
been made from me by the firft Ministers of th«
finances, for establishing a Commiflion ofTrea
"iiry, the Members of which I mean to take fron
imong the Members of the Aflembly. 1 thinl
his difculfion as ufeful as tirgent ; and I detnanc:
hat this object may be presented to. the delibera
ion of the Aflembly."
The following paper has been (luck up in ma
iy parts of the town.—" Citizens, we are triflei
with ; our niifery increases every day, and no
:liirgis decided. They give us a number ofgooc
.voids, bat they leave us to llarve. It is time t<
ee the end of our misfortunes. It, in eighi
lays we fee no changein affairs, the National Af
feinbly may have reason to FKAR the confe
rences which may follow."
HARTFORD, May ji.
The following gentlemen arc chosen by th<
Freemen, to Hand in Nomination for election ii
October next, as Representatives in Congress, viz
Roger Sherman, Jonathan Sturges, Jonathai
Trumbull, Lcnjamin Huinington, Jeremiah Wad
fwortii, James Hillhoufe, Pierpont Edwards
Stephen Mix Mitchell, Tapping Reeve, Join
Cheiler, James Davenport, and Amafa Learned
Enquires.
The Governor and Council have concurred witl
he House of Representatives in repealing the ex
:ife laws ■ but with the alteration, that the excise
hall be collected up to the firft day of July next.
- - - i * 1 _ _
'• Y
ALBANY, May 27.
James Townfcnd, John Lawrance, F,g;bert Ben
ion, Corncliu.s C. Schoonmaker, and James Gor
don, Efqts. having the greatest number of votes
in their fevevnl diltricfts, are duly eletfled Repre-
fentatives 10 Congress, for this State.
The rays of freedom have extended their influ
ences to the cold region'of Nova Scotia ;in the
Bolton Independent Chronicle of last week there
is a long speech of one of the House of Represen
tatives, in favor of the exclusive right of the House
to originate all money bills.
Paris, March 26.
the Kir • sent the following A
800
1500
600
1000
NEW-YORK, SATURDAY, JUNE s
Wednesday afternoon were interred in Trinity
Churchyard, the remains of the H6n. THEODO
RICK BLAND, Esq.—The Honorable the Con
gress of the United States and the society of the
Cincinnati, together with a great number of
refpedtablc citizens attended the funeral.
The Honorable Richard H. Lee, John Walker, 1
faac Coles, Samuel Griffin, Richard B. Lee, James
Mmdifon, Jofiah Parker, and Thomas T. Tucker E
squires, supported the pall.
After the corps was carried into the church, his
Reverence the Bilhop, read prayers; after which
the Reverend Dr. Lynn delivered a most excel
lent sermon, peculiarly adapted to the occalion.
1500
j 000
1000
700
A Jhort aocount of the Hon. Theodorick Bland
Esq. deceased, one of the Virginia Delegation.
Mr. Bland was a native or Virginia, and de
scended from an ancient and refpedtable family
in that state. He was bred to phytic, but upon
the commencement of the American war, having
been educated in very liberal principles, he quitted
the practice, and took an a<siivt part in the cause
of his country. He soon rof" f r om a volunteer to
the rank of Colonel, and had thd command giv
en him of a regiment of dragoons. While in the
army, he frequently signalized himfelf by brilli
ant anions. In i 779 he was appoipted to the com
mand of the Convention troops at Albemarle bar
racks in Virginia, and continued in that fitnation
till some time in 1 7SO, when he was elected to a
feat in Congress. He then resigned his commiHi
on of Colonel, and continued in Congress three
| years, the time allowed by the confederation ; af
ter the expiration of this term, he again return
ed to Virginia and was chosen a member of their
State Legiilature. On the great queltioji of the
Constitution, Mr. Bland was opposed thereto, as
fuppofingit repugnant to the interests of his coun- I
try, and was in the minority that voted against
the ratification. When the Constitution was at
length adopted, Mr. Bland, acting in conformity
to the character of a good titizen, submitted to
the voice of the majority, and became a candi
date to represent the diftridt in which he lived,
in the Congress of the United States. He was
elected without opposition, and has had the ho
nor of representing them in the firft Congress
under the new Constitution. Mr. Bland's cliaradt
er in the present Congress has been such as to
merit the warmest esteem of his countrymen in
general. In his character, he was honeit, open,
and candid, and bore an universal good charadter
in his intercourse with mankind.
On the DEATH of Col. THEODORICK BLAND
HT'HO borne alike on Time's unresting bier,
A All claim from some the tributary tear ;
Y ct grief J uperiot should .bedew the grave,
Where reits the wife, the patriot, and the brave /
Oh ! fkiird alike in Councils to preside,
Or in the Field the martial band to guide,
Long shall Virginia mourn the fatal blow.
That laid her Warrior and her Statesman low !
Long call to mind, while gratitude mfpir^s,
The Man, who warin'd by Freedom'? sacred fireS,
The tranquil joys forfook of social life,
To wield the sword in fccnes of sanguine ftnfe!
His country's good, his firft, and only aim,
Undaunted, firm, in evety view the fame ! v
Nor (hall his mourning friends forget to tell*
Or on his gentler virtues tail to dwell.
Wit, Grace, Politeness, Dignity and Ease,
And all that in th' accdmplifh'd Man can please,
Infur'd applaule, and in the milder sphere
Of I'weet domertic bliss IHII made him dear!
The faithful Hulband—(now, alas ! no more !)
His weeping widow deeply shall deplore!
Th' indulgent Master many a work-worn (lave
With grateful tears his memory mall lave !
But ah! how vain each human power to charm
Mute now his Tongui —unnerv'd, alafc! his Arrti 1
Hufti'd are his lays, that once so sweetly flow'd,
On him the Muse her choicest gifts beftow'd,
His smallest praise, so high his fame was held
His lije alone, his tuneful strains excell'd !
Meflage
Thefollowing lives were written by a LA D Y of this city, on the
President's Recovery laji year \ they being applicable to his late
recovery, are now presented to the public.
On the PRESIDENT'S RECOVERY.
BEHOLD cooven'din mourrtful ftatc,
The virtues, long with blifc elate ;
Each brow a gloom Unusual wears,
Each heart opprefs'd with grief appears ;
" the general frievd> to pain a preyj
No longer charms each tear away,"
Said Libertys hung her head,
While fort-ow Toon the tidings spread '
Bencvohnee scarce check'd her tears,
Such asdefponding worth, reveres.
Cotwubtal Love, with anguish prefs'd*,
And Patrietifm fmotehis breast !
While gentle Pity heav'd a sigh,
And fearful rais'd th' imploring eye !
Patience strove t' appear serene, .
But anxious washer placid mien !
In gloomy mood, ftcrn JuJlice fate,
And {altitude in danger great
And Terriperance in nfanners mild,
With.GWrfy wept like a child !
When lo ! sweet Hope with joy illutn'd,
While round celestial radiance bJoom*d!
" From al!\ci grateful incenfc rife,
I come cotnmi/fion'd from the flues,
To yr Ur united piay'rs he's given,
Keitored to health by ftniling Heaven f
Who yet admits of this delay*
From bliss fupvrme, in realms of day;
Since his lov'd Country's dear success
He's ftilj preierr'ti to happiness
479
Mil ITARY APPOINTMENTS.
THE President of the United States was pU-afcplj on WsdnefHay
last, to make the following Nomination of Officers, to \fhofe #p
pointtnent the Senate did advise andconfent.
INFANTRY.
OFFICERS IN SERVICE.
Rani.
' V C Brigadier Genera! 5v
Lieutenant Colonel) ]OSIA H HARMAR, >Srtvet, 31/«VjV>>
Commandant. S J (1787, Ben»(yl.
John Palfgravc Wyllys, Conneßicut.
John F. Hamtramck, New-York.
1 David Zeigler, Pennsylvania.
2 Jonathan Hart, Contieaicut.
3 David Strong, Ditto.
4 William McCurfly, Pennsylvania.
5 John Mercer, Ncw-Jerfey.
6 John Smith, New-York.
7 Joseph Afhton, Pennsylvania.
8 Erkurfef Beatty, Ditto.
1 Thomas Doyle, Pennsylvania.
2 John Armstrong, Ditto.
3 Ebenerer FrOthirtghAnr, Connecticut.
4 John Pratt, Ditto.
5 William Kerfev, Ncw-Jerfey.
6 William Peters, New-York.
7 Jacob Kingfbury, Connecticut.
8 Ebenezer Denny, Pennsylvania.
1 Cornelius R. Sedam, Ncw-Jerfey.
2 Nathan Mc. Dowell, Pennsylvania.
3 John Jeffers, Conne&rcut.
4 Alrrter iPryor,. New York.
5 Asa Hart (home, Conne&icut.
6 Robert Thomson, Pennsylvania.
7 Jacob Melcher. ditto.
, t New- Jtrkyjvice, Francis
8 John Morgan, Lufc.rcfißn'd 1 May 179?-
Richard Allifon, Pennsylvania.
John Elliot, New-Yark,
John M. Scott, Ncw-Jerfey.
Majors,
Captains,
Lieutenants,
Erif.gni.
Surgeon
Males t
NEW APPO INT ME NTS.
Major 1
Captains,
Licutrnants,
Evjigns,
ARTILLERY.
OFFICERS IN SERVICE.
Major Commandant, John Doughty,
Captains, 1 William Ferguibri,
2 James Bradford,
3 Henry Burbeck,
4 Jofcph Savage i
1 Mah lon Ford,
2 Denck Schuyler,
3 John Pierce,
4 Moses POrterj
5 William Moore,
6 Mathew Ernest,
7 Ebcnezer Smith Fowl,
8 Edward Spear,
Nathan Hayward,
Lieutiflapts,
Surgeon's Mate,
We hear, that on Wednesday last a Bill for
establishing the permanent ieat of the federal go
vernment, was read a second time in the Senate
of the United States—and referred to a special
committee of five members : The resolution pass
ed by the House for holding the next feflion of
Congr£fe at Philadelphia, it was moved, ftiould be
referred to the fame committee. On taking the
question, the Senate was equally divided, twelve
voting in the affirmative, and twelve in the nega
tive,, when the President of the Senate voted in
favor of the motion.
Extract of a Tetter from Bojlon, Mjy 30.
" Unlcfs we can efteft a repeal of the excii»laws, or if Con
gress doort not interfere in our favor, wc shall experience as dull a
summer as ever we did during the contest with Britain.
" If the excise was equal throughout the union, we Ihould ac
quiesce in it most cheerfully.
" Yeftcrday Capt. Hodges arrived from Canton, by what I can
learn our East-India voyages will turn out bad this year."
The (hip Queen Charlotte, Capt. Caldwell, arrived here in 45
days from Bristol, on Thursday ; English papersby this veflel con
tain the following particulars. —That the new Emperor of Germa
ny, Leopold lid. has demanded a categorical answer from the
court of Berlin, to certain queries refpefting the war with the
Turks, and the revolted provinces, a negative on the part of Pruf
fta isexpefled, in which cafe a war between Aujlria and PruJJia. is
inevitable. Leopold was to be crowned with great pomp and
magnificence tn May ; affairs in France wear a vCty precarious af
pefl, Paris in daily alarms, the abolition of the noblefle, clergy,
Sec. having reduced many to poverty.—The Count Maillebois
had laid a plan to restore absolute monarchy—his scheme was dis
covered to the National Assembly by his Secretary, in confcquence
of which the Count decamped to Breda ; the King of France has
sent a message to the national alfcmbly, couched in terms (imilac
to those in ufe'befoie the late commotions.
Paoli has fetout from England on his return to Corjica ; the
troubles in Brabant and Flanders continue—the patriotic army
complains of, the inefficiency of their new Congrefs---and declare v
their intention of veiling Gen. Vavder Mersch with didatorial
authority. The States of Flanders on the other hand, have wrote
to those of Brabant to join in citing Vander Mersch before
them to answer certain charges against. him. The Empress of
Ruflia is entirely recovered from her late indisposition—and is
doing all in her power, personally, to fdrward opening the next
campaign. Antwerp is evacuated by the Auftrians; and 16000
of the Belgic troops have taken possession. The Britilh Parlia
ment was to be diflolved the middle of May ; Gen. Meadows is
| appointed Governor General of Bengal, in the room of Lord
Cornwallis Mr. Oakl y fdr Madrafs, and Mr. Seato.n for
Bombay. |M
ARRIVALS SINCE. OUR LAbT. NEW-YORK-
Ship Ulv(Te% Ballard, Liveipool, 51 days.
——Queen Charlotte, Colwell, Falmouth,
t
" " /\
•/
:K
-EV' \
The Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA,
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten mioutes after
Right o'clock every morning except Sunday.
Stage OJjice, City Tavern, ?
Btoad-IVty, New-Yvik June 5,1790. J
v * I
Tj
N</tncs.
Alexander Parkef, Virginia,
1 Alexander Trueman, Maryland,
2 Jofcnh Moni'ort, North-Carolina,
3 Michael Georgia,
4 Ballard Smith, Virginia,
1 Thomas Martin, Georgia,
2 Thomas Paftwir, North-Carolina,
3 Mark Matyland,
4 John Steel, Virginia.
i Richafd Archcr, Ditto.
Thomas Sccupes, Ditto. „
3 Ezekiel Polke l North-Carolina. |
4 James Clay, Geopgia. J
States.
Ojficert
.tufio
served
in the
late war
New-terfey.
Pennfylvama,
New-York;
Massachusetts,
ditto.
fJcw'-Jerfcy,
NfiV-York,
Maffachufetti,
' ditto,
ditto.
New-Ydrk,
Maffichufetts,
Petrafylvania.
Maflachuictts.
days,FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FAIRY TALE,
(AN IMITATION.)
Ccntinuativn of CAN TO I ft.
A MERRY train then fkip'd along,
While thus they tun'd -.heir magic (bng,
To ulher in their King :
FJy Bcatle, Bat, and blind crews fly!
M All d.impfon venoms of the flcy,
" From hence, away take wing.
" Hence all ye creeping clods of earth—
* f Nor interrupt our airy mirth :
" Your grosser formsoffend,
•' Ob e r on' comes in royal state,
*' While playful myriads round him waif,
u Their Father, King, and Friend.
" envy, hatred, malice, hence I
" AH human paflions give offence,
<c To Fairy natures pure ;
tl Fly round our King ye foft perftfrats,
•' Ye balmy breezes wave his plumes,
" Give joys that aye endufre."
So fungthe gayfy tripling elves,
1 hen quick on each ltdc rang'd themselves ;
Shrill trumpets clanged loud.
When straight in gorgeous show appear!,
Ob Iron with hi* ftai ely Peer*,
All moving thro the crowd.
Majestic was the Monarch's mien,
Bright (hone (hs azureeen,
His hair his fhoutacrs spread.
Hjs armour gfow'd with golden pride,
A warrior Falchion grae'd his fide.
And nodding plumes h.a head.
Next came the ladies of the Court,
All full of girlish giggling fyort,
Like mortal dames I ween t
I'themidft with ev'ry grace arrays
TV hile Fairy Cupid* round her play'd,
Came great Ob iron's Qriln.
And after follow'd such a throng,
To note them all woild swell my foftg^
Beyond my porpos'd bound ;
But we must (nig one merry Sprite,
Obx ron'i trick Her, Robin hight,
In ev'ry wags prank found.
The fame is he whom Puck we call,
Who oft give? goflips fall,
As Whilom told erst me
Wien Pack like three leg stool will come.
And e'er he'ttonch'd by beldames bum,
He'tgone " down (applet fbe."
The fame is he who for hit ring,
Swift at the whiflling wind took winj.
The flow'r to plurk :
The fame I wit from Edwin's b»ck,
On To Mi 0 ook lh* unfccmly pick.
Or Rosin *clep'd t or Pocit.
A coat he wore of many ayet,
W hiic fiolick almost dosM hitcyet,
— Delight of ill tht band.
Wit lift hand bore a witchen gjifs,
Wh. re merry Nles d d r,, ,luZ past r
Hit ngbt hind w.jv'd } wand.
Soon at the King had forward come—.
, ** Foul mortal tears infe& the Dome,*'
The mighty Monarch cried,
** Qti'rk Robin find the caitiff out,
•' W< 'It pumfb fore ifcc filly lout,
44 That on our State liath pry'd."
B'vjhe Robin fkip'd wh ■te CuDOts lai#,
Jn flfjUu! dumps, and fore afraid,
fxprfling n- yghi but bale ;
AiiiC, ' quoth Puck, and wav'd his wand,
" Arifc, and 'fore my mailer flanß,
" Arifc and tell thy tale."
Cuuben nethou?ht,hut» I aftoond,
Himfclf upon his feet be found,
Ne knew he how, ne why ;
And how" cried angry Otsi
" Dar'ft Ihou our sports intrude upon,
Ft ar mofl tn tell a lie,"
"Thought Cuddp.n, surely if J fay,
That th is hat been our market day,
My money I /hall In fir r
!!SSod? od ®! r '" l ou,h he, " vou fremy gear,
coil without drove Cudden here,
" In truth I could'nt choose
•' A woeful w ght full fofely veX'd,
41 By hale and poverty prrpjext,
" M, dc poorer by thi n°-ht—
«' fn villains cruel hands I fell,
** Who rob'd me—altho t pell mell,
" Full manfully did ftght.
jbsißON frown'd, hlythe Robin laughl.
To think ofCuODEK's cTubify craft,
Both, conscious of the lye :
QuothO»fKON, "quickßobinfet,
If this or falfr, or true man be "
Quoth Robin, 11 we will try. 1 '
Then Robin wav'd hit wnnd around,
Quichi Cudden's Fed from off the grouffii
Were nx'd on ceiling high—
" He's falfe, or else he wouldn't flick "
The X ' n ß '"joy'rf the tritfi,
The laughing irarn drew ni£h.
There downward dancing hung the wig>it,
To all the cooit a merry fight.
But Robin pla.ru'd him more-
Mis money't hiding place made ope.
When quick the I athrrn pouch did Hrop,
th Ct'DD> n's golden (lore.
Then Robin lorn'd the witchen glafj,
And made before his eep to pass
The feett the* piay'd at home :
There neighbor Hodgr kifs'd Cuddea't dame.
Who chuckled at ehe romping game,
R'i;Ht glad at Ci/ooEN'sroam.
" P Cre ' e * h i 2, ll ha rß-" Monnehericd,
Becaufc the filly loon hath lied,
A laay, lagging drone :
« Men mull c*pcß, who leave till night,
The work that should be done by light
Sometiine the fault to moan," '
(To it contiitvtd.)
EASTON, May 2*.
Extracl of a letter from a gentleman in E"gland, to
hujrtend on this Jhore, dttted 2(ith February last.
Were one difpofedto wield the pen of con
troveriy, now is the time. We are inundated with
pamphlets from the hierarchy on one fide, and
rom the various fedls of diflenters on the other,
?' Ca^ in g advantage of the approaching diflb
lution of parliament, are attempting to frighten
the majority, who are against them, into a repeal
u, f . adls - 1 ain ' as Wilkes fays, of the ef
tablifted church; but as I am like him, without
any itrong prejudices in religious concerns, on
this occasion, I shall be perfectly inactive. 1 own
am inclined to favor the molt unlimited colera- |
Hon, though there are certainly very plausible
arguments to be made against it. You have had
the glory of giving the firft example of it to the
world; and 1 believe hitherto there has been no
re.i oj to suppose that even in point of policy you
have been wrong. The French, who, to thedef
ruction of their grand monarch, seemed to have
imbibed all your opinions, have adopted the fame
p an—and even nuns may now choose between
rcafon and fuperfhtion. They may, if they will,
neel in silence «nd solitude before an image in
the.r cloister; or if they like better, amori dare
deity''" 1 Wol<hi P inthe world a different
SA L ZM t May 2s.
?1 Ur ' ed L " as "> tie 9S ,k yttt of kii age,
fu/ti iitfr J t c J ! a "d his remains were refitl
*<i fX n V "< *>" hm atCcmbr.dg ~t M .
h 171t came to' W ? i' g '" n J "" vnmr fa '» that place Ju
srallrC? ?"* Ik 8 ' 17,81 tya, hi, charge of the
t'"ZAntil MZ Vf Thit gent/en,n; has
JiTJJ'Z' J a " d '*< Mtfi fms of Harvard j
tL t hZ l \ fm r >"['<**' felt Jo (litkth the iUrmuies of age,
ird tJ ' ,i e ' n f cer " ,y M y *'Jffence betweev the vigor of his mnd
l£er% f r ?' nW »/*>> "" d ™*» tirier yets.
a""uhLTin ,U^t\ oj r'Tr **'> ?' ahe "» U f"P tr "tend
Sgjßaaffiagf &ss£• z&
'xiir- 7"" -r™i "L'-JX.:
»rfZ\" M **<" T, "»^thc
SI aJl'r Tf "' he h " s td ° r "' d " lhr'f
anj t character of t-ietv, irte/rity
tke:Xo7Z±tf ™ the lofsoj alm.ft
plea fores If convert rt ' ""\ which deprived him of t c
i&ttotsz
x* 1 "* uai^n ' l
Jtipen'JJor hcivin iy grace dhint,
like autumn fruit he ftM.
Kesitr, tk;»i r?tt) ,'ivefi /org.
But seek to live n wit.
New-York City Lottery.
lurr of the Slate of New-York, p.(Ted & KLnury, ,]£*
SCHEME.
t PRIZE #f ' f fjooo j*
£-3000 f 3000
,6C ° teoo
»o ZZ * 5C °
TO 2CO °
50 3°o°
JiO £ »£<*>
180 .0 :z
7930 4 3 ,10 0
5°
1 JO
186
795°
8346 Prises, J
166,54 Blanks, J *$?<*> Tickets, at 40s. Cach, f.goooo
SubjcA 10 a d-du&ion of Fiftren per Cent
.J TH^W ea u" fAil U)TIiRY bei "g «° "ifc ' P°rt Of the Cum
Ty'hAT T f f orporlt on for r «-p>'nn K and enlargin-r t hc CI
r\ HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS u hi 1 J
so much honor the Archil, as wel. a „S
Z™*"' prcr " mc I hcir fe »°« Citizen, will cheerfu iy con
CM, in promoting the sale of Tickets, especially * the keifs "f
be'lJ^ , ,r y - W 'i r r u C ' hem fr ° m 3 wh ' ch otl, e . w.f<
be laid to reimhur/tf thc corporation.
The above SC.KEML i 4 calculated , n a manner very beneficial
to adventurers,there notfeemg two blanks to , pn.e.
he Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the Fikst
AoUay wiA»W,r next, or sooner if filled, of which Tim K
PwV. T °" Tts * v ""' Hir*lVO
rF.r/R 1. Cu rtiniuj, lOHN PI NT A # n
A gu>-} ori, GthMa'cht 4790.
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at hi. EAST-INDIA GOODS STORF
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODc
Ron V M A n mo "l Wl y ch are ,he Articles :
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5 - 4 || HUMHUMS,
r ■ , J Lon. Cloths,
Hankerdhiefs,of various kinds. [| Ca(Ta«
, J Srerfuckefs,
G.ngharas, || 80 „ b0 ,, r s '
A variety of handlome painted MUSLINS
With many other Articles, which w.li be fold by the Pie « o,
. Package, low f or rash. '
Tfi°ted for a' genderriin' I* ""t' tT*
plea fa nr part of El.zabtth Town 3 ver >
tarns abont four aces or. J ' he ]ot con
variety of the bed "u"'trees Thr ,l' '"7 g °° d g " 6n ' and a
so easy as to fuiuhe pLcTafer V PVTIS e,n be
x», Wall-Street. P Enquire ot the SuKcr.ber »t No
June ?, 17jo, SX.IAS BOUDJNOt.
480
r ***>
*000
*J<K>
«SCO
3«06
»s°°
=40©
1800
3:800
tXJCE flftUßßf .1 JUgy.ggjjjg
J 7 Ui
AMAICA Spirits, 5/3. 5/;
Antigua Rum, 4 Jg, « 5 /.
St. Croix, do. 4^6.
Country, do. 3/
Molasses, 2/2.
Brandy, ?/6.
Geneva,
Do. in cases, 28/^
Muscovado 80/. a 73/
Loaf, do. ify,
Lump, do. i_/2n.
Peppcr, 2/7 2/9.
Pimento, 1/^.
Coffee, ./ 4 .
Indigo, 1 Carolina) If.a 6f
Do. Fundi, i 3/. \of J
R'ce, 23*. 24/
Superfine Flour, 64/:
Common do. 58/:
Rye do. 26/: a 28/
Indian Meal, 18/20/
Rye, 5/ 6r.
H icat, i]f. a ,oJ6.
Corn, (Southern) aT.
Do. (Northern,) 7r a . fq
"«f, firft quality, >/ g
Pork, h,ft quality Bc/
Oats, »A
Flax-feed,
Ship bread per cwt. 2if. Is/.
Country refined >
bar-iron, J «81.« 3 ol.
Do. bloomery, 251. a 26!.
vwedes do. 4*l.
Russia do. 301.
Pi,'-.ron, 81,0/; t9 l
German Heel, gipcr lb.
American, by calk. ) jU
per. lb. 4 d. f
Do. do. do. 6d , 2 J
Do. do. do. Bd. 9 Jrf.
U'i. do. do. jod. )
Do. do. do- lad's
Do, do. do. sod.'' Ti^ a
Do. do. do, e^d.)
Potalh, p er to r, 39!. < 4 ®|.
Pearl all, 481,^,1.
Bees-wax per lb. 2f.
Mackairl per harr. 26/430/
ft""*. '6/
Mahogany, Jamaica, > ,
per s ot, J ,orf -
Dominico, do. gj.
Honduras, do. jj.
Logwood unehipped.pr.ton. 81.
Do. chipped. 141.
2 inch white oak )
pbnk, per m. f »01. 10f.
» inch do. j|.
2 inch white pine placJk, 81.
1J inch do. 61. 1 of.
« inch do. 31. I</
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
Do. 92 inch io. a l. fy; "t
Cedar 2 inch do. jl. i<J~
1J inch do. 61. io r
» inch do. 41,
Puch pine rcantling, 31. 8/
Cyprus 1 feel (hinges, il ,0/
§ CONTINENTAL k
§ STATE SECURITIES &.
SBOUOHT * ND j olB) > J~
AT NO. ,g6. W ATIR.JT R lIT, £
C A prut Mil h t . ivn J„ Military I
V - '•*' *W A/' 4 . &
" """ , *
NnTT m ■ t *Mtqf Arw-4Vi. JJ J
an ,wf« dc"s£:,lt: M ' DOWM ; ° f
to the f„d chics juftrcety a jIW !l"t duC P roofm ' (ie
purfmnt to ao atl of the M ' Donild r
"An ,& tor relief !bfmndf, ° Of. r Stßlt > rnti,M
fed the 41 h April l-fcf •h„ tk r 'j®? , "km debkm," psf
*ll thefaid Lewis M Donald's estate w h " d: "* ,cd
AtJKER T/EM£NT.
B the Jdftic[j lh o C f the^upl'cm/c^ua o '} E( 9 mK - omof
ol New-York. "VotireiiK. . J u< '' cst urc of the Sute
late of Long Island, Efquir- 'j° Pall ' DeyrelJ,now or
others whom it may concern- th g dcbtcr > and t0 ,I 1
proof, made to the Caid lufticc f" 1 "" 1 I ' o " 10 '* end due
ture, , muled "«n sfl P» r fuant to.an ast of the legifla
de'btors," palled the fourih ri 'bfconding and absent
the m'jSSSfrfr 1 ' ' 786 ' b y—^
said Paul Dcyrell's Estate rc . h , a ' dtrefted all his the
l>e feiieS; and that o ,,| c f; hcfta^^ rf,:m;,, > . w ' thln State, to
months after the publication ofth- d ld, ? r ß e hl *«W>" w ''hm three
perfoual will be fold forX " 1 h ' S Eftr "" r;al and
a -tori. Dated at the city ol [ at,sfja ' on of his ere-
March, i„ the year of day
a\d ninety. March qi C l^°u^ w*«i hundred
i aw 3m.
Wio™d F*" an
couragement, and find ftcadv em^ 1 " d ' mcrt wl,h to_
Suhfcriber, 'Wployment, by - to the
N- B. None but a fobe, i"* G,FIOR I>>
need apply. mS' an one we " recommendrtl
— May 29, 1790.
C^c^', a " t d w a H f^"^ roUs . Pf ice .g' ve n for Conti
fecurities, of every Uf ""' "d Rh,.de-Maud
New-Yoik B Ap r n 7 . E r R I "o. A^ER ' N °" 59 '
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No . eg to N'o. l8?> Watec-Street, near the
WHrnr.v *jy-Market,
SKcram?, n H e ,^ C^ te all k{nds of PUBLICS
n 5 -Do tt , ARS at
Uo. tt mtJi do. U. 6/.
■Do. 18. inch do. 18/-
Butt white oak staves, ~/•
Pipe do. do. g|. d "'
HogQiead do. do. 6). 10/:
do. heading, gj,
Irifli baircl do. 'staves
Hogshead red oak do. r I ,1
Do. French do. «|. '
Hogihead hoops, 4!
Whiteoak fquarc timber )
per square fool, C
Rtd wood, per ton,
Fuitick, :01.
Be»ver, perlb.
0;i-r per fk.n
I Grey fox, 0.
I Martin, 4^o.
R»coon, 3 ys c 7 ys.
Mufkrat, 10 J t ,
Beaver hats, 64 f.
Castor do.
Chocolate, 1
Cocoa, 70/ a 80/j
Cotion,
pr, pr. bar.
14/.
Turoentine, ,8/. a , c /
Tobacco, James hiver, «,u
Jort, 4 W. a 3 jJ
Do. Rappahanock, a oIJ
Do. Maryland, coloured, fu
Do. Weftcrn-.hore, jg
Do. Shot, 68\f.
Red lead, «$r
White do. dry, act;
White do. In oil,
Salt.petre hams, 7^.
spermaceti candles, i/"
Mould do. x irf. w-
Tallow dipt, ql,/.
S"»P. 5/ aU.
Caft.le soap, 9 J, a IoJ
Enslt/hcherfe, p r . Ib. x ,£
Country do. gj. 61
Butter, 10/
Hyson tea, ps,
Scq»in do. 6/6.
Boheado. ?/ 4 .
Ginfen*, e £ , 2 /g
Starch Poland, }</
Snuff, 5/3.
Alla m fait, water mea- >
/"re, pr. hufti. f
Liverpool do. 3/.
Madeira wine, ')
pr. pipe, ( « 9c/.
'or', 46/.
Lilton. pr. « B |. ,/
Trnei iff, 4 > W
'>»».
opermaccn do, 5/
Snake-down hbd*. 0/$
Dutch gun-powder, pr. cwt. 6'.
Nail rr»d«, pr. tojs, W
Lints-cd 0,1, pr. gal. 4/
d °" ?W ' barrc1 ' s°/"tff