PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENXO, No. 4 t, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK,
[No. 17, if Vol. ll.j
THE TABLET. No. CXXI.
" Nature and truth are the fame every where, a>;-f
reason Jhtvis them every •where alike."
(Continuation of the arguments in support of the position, that the
universal dtffufion of literature will preccde and prepare the
way for the universal prevalence of religion.)
BUT when £n objeA of I'iicli novelty and im
portance as the Christian religion was pre
sented to minds enlarged by It tidy, and habitua
ted to an inveitigacion of knowledge, the power
even of a Roman Emperor, in repressing the en
quiries of enriofity, in checking subsequent con
viction, and restraining the progress of truth,
proved as trifling and impotent, as the ridiculous
attemps of Xerxes to chain the surges of the Hel
lespont.—Accordingly we find ttocearly after the
publication of chriltiauity, it by
all the civilized nations domi
nions, which were principally inhabitants of Ita
ly, Turkey in Europe, and some cities of anti
ent Greece in Alia. The nations inthe Northern
and Eastern parts of Enrope, for ages after this
lay buried in ignorance and idolatry. But in
those civilized countries, religion wil diffufed
with great rapidity and continued to flourish, as
little corrupted as was polfible in this imperfe<ft
Hate of human nature, till a division of empire
took place, and Byzantium became the residence
oft he Emperors. The virulent disputes and ani
mosities that rose from this divilion, as is ever
the cafe, corrupted the purity of religion ; and
almoftjat the fame inllant, the Northern nations,
rolling like a torrent upon the Weflern empire,
spread the veil of ignorance over learning and ci
•vilization.
Here then we may observe that 110 sooner had
literature vanilhed, than religion was forgotten,
or corrupted with all the idolatrous ceremonies
of pagan superstition. This points us to the ob
vious reason, why religion was sooner corrupted
in the Weft than in Ealh C'>nftantim>plc, like a
■vcterail oak, had weathered the rude inotks ul
the Northern barbarians and of the Saracens, for
several ajies after the Western empire had been
overwhelmed with their desolations. During
this period, that city continned the feat of litera
ture and religion ; while in the Weft,both were loft
in chaotic d.irknefs, or blended with errors and ab
surdities. Thus corrupted and degenerated, re
ligion was converted into an engine of state, and
was propagated wherever it became the interest
or inclination of Emperors and Bishops to extend
their jurifditftion.
To pursue this motleof reasoning, and to cor
roborate it by tadts, it may not be amiss to men
tion, that in the fifth century christianity was re
ceived in Germany and Ireland, in the iixth cen
tury it was introduced into France, and into the
kingdom of the Heptarchy in England ; Rullia
and Poland were con verted about the end of the
eighth century ; and Hungary in the firft year of
the eleventh. Sweden was converted in the ninth
century ; relapsed again into idolatry, and its
converlion was not completed till thecloi'e of the
tenth. But what was this religion which was de
nominated christian ? A fvllein fraught with eve
ry species of absurdity, calculated to astonish the
gazing croud, rather than to elighten their un
derstandings; to fetter the conscience and drain
the purse, rather than to check tiic vices and re
form the lives of its Itupid votaries. A religion,
in almolt every inftance,propagated by thefword,
by marriage or consanguinity; confined at firft to
the courts of the great, who embraced it from
motives of policy, and whole example was imi
tated by their devoted vaflals, cither through a
veneration for their pevfons, or a dread of their
vengeance. And mankind mull forever have
continued in this situation, groaning beneath the
enormous load of ecclesiastical oppreflions, had
not learning andcivilizntion firft paved the way
tor their deliverance. When the mind begins
to investigate the principles of a religion, those
ceremonies that have no foundation in reason,
and thole doctrines that are not consonant to truth,
will gradually lose their adherents. In this gene
ral ferment of examination, men may run into
extremes, and disown the rational and obligatory
parts of religion, because they find them blended
with creeds that are capricious and useless. But
as truth and nature are immutable, it may be pre
sumed that the intrinsic excellence of the chiilli
an religion, will eventually be recognized and
celebrated, by hicti who call themselves philoso
phers. "o be continued.)
It. .\o. Tablet, ift. par.2d. line, so* '• j/a/j' ; r<au Deity
WEDNESDAY,. JUNE 9, 1790,
RATIFICATION.
Providence, May 31, 1790.
SATURDAY Night, at Eleven o'clock, an expiefs arrived in
Town trom Newport, with the important Intelligence, tha*;
the CONVENTION OF THIS STATE had ratified,the CON
STITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.
The question, " Shall the Conjlitutionke adopted, or not ?" was ta- j
ken on Saturday, abont five o'clock, P. M.—when the affirmative
was carried by a Majority of Two, tnirty-tour members voting for, j
and thirty-two against it.
This pleasing and moil interefling Event was immediately an-'
no 1 need here by the ringing of bells, and firing two federal fa-"
iui : —one from the Artillery on fed' il hill—and another from
the (hip Warren Capt, Sheldon, lut<., ; arrived from India.
Ratification of the CoKsriTßtioit of the Unti so States,
ty thi Convention of tfu State of Rkoie-ijland and Providence
Plantations.
WE the Delegates of the people ' f yhe State of Rhode-Island
and Providence Plantations, duly cle£led and met in Con
vent on, having maturely considered the Constitution for the Uni
ted States of America, agreed to on the 17th day of September, in
the year 1787, by the Convention then affcmblcd at Philadelphia,
in t! e commonwealth of Pennsylvania (a copy whereof.precedes
these presents) and having alio feriourty and deliberately consider
ed the prefentfituation of this State, do declare and make known
(Here it inserted the Bill of R'ghts, a propoled by the Convention at
their Se/jion at South-Kingjlown.
UNDER these impreflions, and declaring that the rights afore
faid cannot be abridged or violated, an(l that the explanations a
forefaidare confident with the said Conftiturion, and in confidence
that the amendments hereafter mentioned willreceive an early and
mature consideration, and fpecdily ! -tome a part thereof : We,
the said Delegates, in the name and 'jfi-the behalf of the People of
the State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations do, by
these presents, ASSENT TO and RAJIFY the said Constitution.
In full confidence, nevertheless. that until the said amendments
(hall be ratified, purfuantto the fifth article of theaforelaid Consti
tution, the militia of this State will noj be continued in ferviceout
of this State for a longer term than fix weeks, without the consent
of the Lcgiflatnre thereof ; that the Congress will not make or
alter any regulation in this State, refp-fting the times, places and
manner, of holding elections for Sen. ors or Reprefcntatives, un
lcfs the Legislature of jhis Slate (ha 1 neglect or refufc to make
Laws or regulations for the purpofc, c r from any circutnftance be
incapablc of making the fame ; and that in t' ofe. cases such power
will only be until the Lefcifl Sure of this State (hall make
provision in th- preinifrs ; that the Cqfrigrefs will not lay direst
taxes within this State, but when the monies arising from .the im
post, tonnage and caicik, fnall b infn icient for the public exi
gencies, nor until Cong r cfs shall firft I ive made a requisition upon
this S'ate to aflefs, levy and pay, the amount of such requisition,
made agreeably to the census si xed *i the laid Constitution, in
such way an<J m*fiurr .» <>f this State (hajl judgt
best ; and that Congrcfs will not lay any capitation or poll tax.
D 0 iV E in Convention, at Newport, in the State of Rhodc-JJland
and Providence Plantations, the twenty-ninth day ojMay, in the
ytzrof our Lord one thoufund/even hundred and ninety.
By oider ol the Convention.
DANIEL OWEN, Prcjident.
Attejl. Daniel Updike, Secretary.
A N D the Convention do, in the name and on behalf of the
people c 1 the State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantation*,
enjoin upon the Senators and Representative or Representatives,
which may be clc&cd to represent this State in Congrcfs, to exert
all their influence and ufeall reasonable means to obtain a ratifica
tion of the following amendments to the said Constitution, in the
manner prescribed therein ; and that Congress, in all laws to be
in the mean time, will conform to the spirit of the said
amendments as far as the Constitution will admit.
[ Here are inserted the amendments recommended at the f<{fion y bublijh
ed in the Providence GazetteoJ March 13 —also the following additional
amendments, wz.J
1. That the several State-Legi(latum (hall have power to recall
their federal Senators, and to appoint others in their {lead.
2. That Congress (hall not tre£l any Company of Merchants
with exclusive advantages of commerce.
3. That Congress (hall have the power of establishing an uni
form rule of inhabitancy, or fettlemcnt ot the poor, throughout
the United States.
4. That whenever two members of either House (hall on any
question call for the yeas and nays, the fame (hall be entered on
the journals of the refpettive Houses.
The Convention likewise pafled the following Resolves, ne
mine contradicente.
1. That the amendments to the Constitution of the United
States, agreed to bv Congress in March, 1789, except the second
of said amendments, be recomnunded to the Legislature of this
State for their ratification,purfuant to the fifth article ot said Con
ilitution.
2. That the thanks ofthe Cnnvention be ptcfented to the Pre
(ident, (or the candor and impartiality with which he hath dis
charged the office of President.
3. That the thanks of the Convention he presented to the Re
verend Clergy who have officiated at this Convention.
D 0 N E in Convention, at Newport, in the State of Rhode-JJland
and Providence Plantations, the twenty-ninth day of May, tn the
year of our Lord tine thousand feien hundred and ninety.
By order of Convention,
DANIEL OWEN, Prefidert.
Attefl. Daniel Updike, Secretary.
Yeflerday Evening the Delegates for this Town arrived from
Newport, and on their landing were welcomed by a D'.fcharge
of Thirteen Canuon.—Soine further Demonstrations of Joy are
expeSed to take pla«\
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1790.
DEBATE ON TONNAGE CONTINUED.
Mr. Madison's motion for a diicrimination, in the following
words under consideration. viz.
" r I "'HAT from and after the day of next the tonnage
JL of all such vessels be raised to , and from and after
the day of next, no such veflels be permitted to export
from the United States any manufactured article Che growth or pro
duce thereof."
Mr. Fitzfimons said he very much doubted the policy of adopt
ing this proposition ; he thought it an experiment of two bola a
complexion, con(jdering the recent eftabliihment of the govern
481
tffij&o
ment and the fituaiion of the commerce of this country ;
he thought we were not prepared to hazard the confcquenccs whi :h*
may result trom the operation of a system which would g»ow out
ol so great a change in our commercial atfarrs.—lts prefciu opera
tion would only be to raise the price of imports.
Mr. Lawrance (aid that he was apprchenfive that the articles of
producc would lay upon our hands, if this measure fhou'd be a
dopted, which would be an injury to us. The calculations upon
theeffc£l of its being a beneficial proceeding may be mi (taken cak
culations. The manufacture* of Great-Britain, and their manners
are in forae degree congenial to our own, and although we have
not all the privileges that could be yet we find our con
nexions increasing with that country. He was of opinion, there
fore, that the motion might prove disadvantageous ; neither could
he fee any immediate neceflity for its adoption.
Mr. Hartley observed that if the quellion was now put, he
should vote for the discrimination. It may be doubtful whe
ther the fir ft rate of tonnage, as reported by the fcle& committee,
is not too high ; but this may be corre&ed in the house. In pri
vate life, said he, the man who fliews himfelf my friend, I ftiould
affe&ionately legaid. The man who treats me with esteem, I
would wish to make a proper return to ; but the man who is vin
dictive, and drives to ruin iny intercftand my property, I would
endeavor to counteract or oppose by measures which might defeat
his purpose. The fame principles or condu£l may, perhaps, be
fairly applied to nations. I can fay for tnyfelf, I feel no enmity
toward Great Britain, so long as Ihe treats this country with the
justice and refpeft due to a nation : but ftre fecms indire&iy, nay,
I might alinoft fay direttly by htr policy and regulations, to at
tack our ship-building, navigation and commerce, and wnhes to
injure our intcrells and our property.
We have a right to oppose her by counter regulations, or by a
system arhich inay induce her to examine the lubjed, to corre&her
errors and do us juftiee.
Pad injuries may be forgiven ; I will agree that those of the
war (hall be in dust. But when 1 agree that the injuries of one na
tion (hall be in dust, I must also observe, that our Iriendfliip for
another nation, who feived and relieved us in distress, (hauld be in
marble.
At the last ftflion it was said that Britain was disposed to do us
juftiee, and relax from fomeof the policy (he had pra&ifcd. We
were dc fired to wait, and all (hould be well : We waited, but at
this feflion we cannot 1 arn from any authentic documents that (he
has ftirrtd in the smallest degree.
Since the adoption of the New Constitution and formation of
this government, Great-Britain has experienced many advantages ;
(he has gained much by the fweeis of commerce. This govern
ment has (hewn the fulleft disposition to comply with the spirit
of the treaty. We have eftabhfhed tribunals of juftiee, in which
Britilh fubjtfts may recover fatisfa&ion for any demands they may
have against the individuals of these States ; without the smallest
danger of partiality or iijjuflice. What has (he done in return ?
She has been civil in some instances, for which we give her credit:
lor her friendthip or juftiee, we cannot fay (o much.
The attack ujkk. oui tommcrct has hern fpok.cn of before.
Why has (he not given up those posts ? She still retain# the ports
which by solemn treaty (he was bound to deliver up ; and to the
want of those posts may we ui a great measure impute the depre
dations and murders of the savages upon the inhabitants of the
western frontiers. Ido not fay that the Britilh countenance or
support those invaders ; but, were the posts in our hands, a great
check, might be given to such enormities.
It has been observed that we risque much by adopting the re
faction ; a commercial warfare might turn out ruinous to Am?-
rica. If our risque is great, that of Great-Britain will be greater j
(he has immense capitals in this trade ; we import many of her
luxuries ; we are chiefly cloathed in her manufaaures, and I think
it will be difficult, if not almost impoflible, for her merchants to
changs those capitals into other channels, which would be equal
ly produ&ive. I fay, as at present informed, 1 (hail vote for the
relolution.
Mr. Sedgwick said he was induced to believe this a measure of
very great impropriety, and one that would prove injurious to
the interest of the United States. He could not tell for what pur
pose, or what was the object of this discrimination. Who are
concerned in the carrying trade ? We are declaring aganift onr
country, in favor of another : for what purpose ? Do gentlemen
expect that France will aid our carrying trade ? He believed not.
It is a useless declaration, an impotent measure of paflion, said
Mr. Sedgwick, not dictated by the understanding; and fuppofini;
the elf eft intended Ihould not be produced, the confequenre
would probably be advantageous to Maffachufctts, but very in.
jurious to Georgia. 1
Mr. Smith (S. C.) thought it highly impolitic to enter into a
commercial warfare with Grcaußritain. We ought not to con
demn her for following her usual policy in her navigation laws;
they arc not particularly aimed at us ; her navigation was oril
ginally aimed at the Dutch. We have not heard of anv alteration
particularly against this country, and therefore we have no room
for being displeased. Whenever (he finds her advantage, (he will
propose a commercial treaty, perhaps now, at the present time,
tt may be contemplating. The parliament rose in August Jaft ;
a new parliament may ast differently, and it will be more be.'
coming in us to wait for some little time, than precipitate this
measure This country has been so disjointed since the peace,
that we could not form any treaty with advantage ; And even now
this government is but little more than a year old.
With refpedt to the advantage Great-Britain reaps from her
trade with this country, which advantages (he will lose by the
adoption of this meafuie, we (hall also be injured. The effett
may be more alarming than is now apprehended, and may bric<r
about a revolution in one-year. *
Great-Britain is a more compact country, and has a more stable
and permanent administration ; but we change our administration
every two or three years : this gives them a decided advantage,
and they might cripple our commerce exceedingly from one Con
gress to another.
The gentleman from Virginia has said that we have it in our
power to starve the Weft-Imlits ; but bethought this an idea alto,
gether repugnant to the feelings of Americans ; they would pre.
fer a furrcptitious trade to such a principle.
Some articles I rom America pay no duty in England, wh'ch 1
pay duty from other countries ; we have, therefore, some indul
gences there which are not allowed us in f ranee.
Mr. Smith concluded by observing that we fliould not resent
the policy of Great-Britain's supporting her own navigation laws,
from which he read some passages, and then declared his opinion,
that if the proposition under consideration (honld be carried in the
house, it would prove very injurious to the interests of tlvs country.
Mr. Madison replied to the several arguments againfl his motion.
A gentleman said he (Mr. Sedgwick) had called it "ameafureof
padion." H« observed thatjit had neither been ii&atcd by pas
[Whole NO. 121.]
I.ion, n«r pjopoitfJ w ih p«ul:o « . re :oi. -de- i il su cool, as
well as a pioper meai'ure, and believed, that the more coolly it
was examined, the more proper it would appear.' If any thing
was to be done, let it he lorn 'thing that will be effectual.
As to the tfiftinftion propoted between nations in treaty and
not in treaty* that point had been difr« ( Ti*d and decided on yes
terday, .and wa* up part ot trie argument to day. It was agreed
on all hands, that rhemeafure reported by the committee was le
velled agaimt a part'icutai nation, .though it was not named. Why
t'ten oftertMoly nvo've other nations tor whom it was not intcud
ed ? And by muk.ng no difference in favor ot those m'treaty,
fearh otheis to consider a treaty with us as of no value? He
Lid we were the Jets leftraitied from making the diftinftion, be
oaufe the nation against which the measure was designed to ope
rare, had not hefuated to let the example, as far as her fuppofid
mtereftwent. He had, he said, before ihewn, thatthe principle on
\vhich the trade with the Weft-Indies was regulated by Great-
Jiritain, was a departure from the principle of her navigation ast :
accoidmn; to that ast, all other nations were allowed to carry di
reftlv their own produce in their own veiled, wherever the fame
trade was allowed by the ast to Bntirti v;ilels.
A genrifman from Pennfylvana (Mr. Fitzfimons) was afraid the
mrafure was too bold a one. But why, he asked, was it too bold,
if, as the weighty information andaiguments of the gentleman
himfelf had fh.-wn there was no danger ? if the existence of the
Weft-Indies, and the prosperity of Great-Bitain, depended so
materially on the trade with the United States, that it would be
madness in her to hazard an interruption of it ?
Mr. Madison then proceeded tore iew the European and Weft-
India commerce of the United States. He stated the imports to
f>e, from Europe, about 3,039,0001. sterling; from the Weft-In
dies 927,4381. —total, 3.966,438!. The exports to Europe,
3,202,448!. —to the Weft-Indies, 941,55 aj.— total, 4,144,000].
He (lated the export and return freight to Europe, to be esti
mated at 500,000!. sterling; to the Weft-Indies, 250,000!. —total,
750.000!. J-orthe return freight, which waseftimated at one
tenth ot the export freight, he deducted 45,45 jl. 10s. which left
lor the value ot the export freight to Europe 454.5451. 10s. By
applying a like rule to the Weft-India freight, he made the total
export freight to amount to 681,8181. ss. sterling; of this he
computed two thirds, or 454.5451.105. to be enjoyed by BrttifH
vrtfeis. He took not ce here, that the proportion of foreign to
Britilh tonnage, employed in the exports of Great-Britain, was
,ftatcd by I.ord as no more than one to twelve.
This amount of the freight, he said, at 21. sterling per ton, em
ploys 2 7,272 ton* of (hipping ; or, allowing two voyages a year,
568 veffelsofaoo tons burthen each.
Th's fhiopmg, he said, allowing Ax men to 100 tons, employs
6816 seamen ; or allowing one man to 15 tons, which was perhaps
a bettei eitnnate, seamen.
He aflced whether it was conceivable that Great-Britain would
give up all these advantages, rather than put the commerce of the
two countries on such a footing as would be reasonable and reci
procal ? Whether the would throw awav. and into rival hands too,
a height of near hall a million tlerling ? Whether lhe could bear
to fee between 5 and 600 vciTel# rotting in port, or fold to others
to be einyloyed intbs bifmefs iaciificed by her ? He asked what
would become of 7or Boco seamen. thus turned out of employ
ment ? And whether they would not enter into the ferviceof other
nations, and particularly of the United States, to be employed in
the exportation of our produce.
He took notice of the immense lot* that would be sustained by
the Btitifh merchants, on the capital employed in the American
trade, particularly the rice and tobacco. New 100,000 hhds. of
tobacco, not more than 10 or 12,000 of which was consumed in
Great-Britain, anqually went almost all through their hands.
The famething might be said of 100,000 barrels of rice annually
exported from the United States.
The msnufa&urers. he said, would be dill more distressed by
the want of the American market. Many articles, which were
luxuries to this country, and which it wqjjld be better without,
gave bread to that elafs of people. Their distresses would increase
the spirit of emigration, already fomuch dreaded by the policy of
that nation. He observed that Great-Britain would be the more
unwilling to rifle an interruption of her trade to the United States,
beeaufe it would hasten the efttblifhmerit of American mtnufac
fures, which (he always had endeavoured to prevent, and thereby
cut off for ever this important market for her's. He laid such a
danger would be particularly alarming, as her three great staple
fttanu failures, of leather, iron and wool, were thufe which were
making the greatest progress in this country, and would be moll
■ ided at her expence.
As to the British Weft-Indies, it had been fully (hewn, he
said, that thev could neither prosper nor subsist without the market
ot the United States ; they were fed from our granaries.—With-
out our lumber, which it was admitted could be tupplied no where
e]fe, they could not carry on their trade orfupport their eftjblifh
nirms. In the sale of their rum, on which the profits of their la
bour ess ntially depended, they had no resource but in the con
sumption of this country. He said the whole amount of rum sent
to otnerXoreisjn countries did not exceed 8 or 900,000 gallons,
which was i«oi more than one-fifth of what was imported into the
United States ; besides their loss in this refpes, thev would have
chc mortification to fee the vacancy in our market filled bv rum
made from molafles supplied by rival iHands. In cafe of war,
which happened: every ten or a dozen years, or a moment of fa
mine, which happened every three or four, he said the condition
ot the Bntifh lflands must evidently be such, that (he would not
fail to provide against the contingency,by proper concefllons, unless
lhe lhould infer from our conduct that they arr not neceflary.
He added, as a coofideration which he thought of great weight,
in favour of th? measure. that in cafe any negociations ftiould take
place, it would put our executive on proper ground. At present
the trade with Great-Brit«»in whs precisely in that situation which
herintereft required, and her King could moreover regulate it ac
cording to cir. umftances. On our part the executive could nei
ther otfer nor witdraw any thing. He could oiler nothing, be
caufc Great-Britain was already in poflcfljon of every commercial
privilege Hie desired. He could not lay, give us reciprocal privi
leges, or your's fhallbe withdrawn, becaule this mull be a legisla
tive act. By pafling the ast proposed, the executive will be ena
bled to speak a language proper for the occasion. He can fay, if
you do not give the United .States proper privileges, those given
to you shall not be continued. (To be continued.)
GENOA, March 13.
CONSIDERABLE magazines have been for
some time forming in the eitates of his Sar.
dinian Majesty—the fortifications are repairing,
and the troops augmenting ; every diftri<ft, how
small soever it may be, is to furpilh 1 t men, and
the towns double that number, betides which a
corps of 15,000 men areailembling to serve wherc
ever occasion may require.
VIENNA, March 24,
Yesterday we received the important news from
Constantinople, by the way of Venice and Trieste,
that the treaty of alliance between Prufliaand the
Porte had been signed by the Englifli Ambaflador,
and that other christian powers, namely, Sweden
and Poland, would also enter into it.
PARIS, March 2t
M. Neckcr's health seems to decline daily. His
hepatical choli.s denote that the liver is touched,
and he is altograher in a very critical ltate.
L O N DON, April 10.
The French National Gazette; a patriotic pa
per, printed at Paris) is prefaced with the tollow
ing principles :
1. Man is an independent, bei-ng by nature—
and yet he has been every where the flaveot del
potifin, as soon as he has eltabliflied any thing like
regular society.
2. Several nations, after lhakingofFthe yoke of
afingle tyrant, have neverthelels soon found theii
condition no ocherwlfe altered, than by changing
one tyrant for many.
3. The eighteenth century feenis pregnant
with a revolution better combined, better direct
ed, and more universal than any preceding, anil
founded upon a more durable basis.
4. To establish the rights of mankind upon a
sure footing, it is neccflliry to go back to the o;1
gin of those mi Hakes, which have been the caule
of the loss of their liberty.
J. That mankind may not mistake a change
rom one species of slavery to another for liberty,
hey ought to be .acquainted with'the nature of
.he ancient ariftqeracies, which were nothing
more than the tyranny of the few over' ihe ma
ny, as also with that of the democracies, w.hich
by degenerating into mob governments, were
noching eife but the tyranny of the populace o
ver the persons arid properties of the wealthier
part of the citizen*.
6- That the friends and enemies of liberty
may know how to eltimate the success that may
be expedited trom their attempts to hasten or re
tard a revolution, it isnecetlary to convince both
of the truth of this proposition, that a long con
tinued state of opprefiion will finally awaken a
spirit of liberty ; and that every nation, consi
dered as an aggregate body, has its eyes always
open to the attempts of its enemies, as well as to
the faults and errors of its benefactors.
7. As we have reason to hope that the labors of
the National Alleinbly will be of advantage to
more than one generation, and that more than
one nation will follow our example, it is our opi
nion, that as good Frenchmen, it is our duty to
give a complete hillory of our revolution, in a
separate lheet, to be published once a week.
An adtion was brought at Leeds by a youn<» la
dy against a gentleman for a breach of promifeof
marriage. The contrast that had been previous
ly signed by the parties was something lingular,
and was as follows :\" A's love is the fubliniel of
all passions, and has been the universal conqueror
of mankind, we are not ashamed to own its in
fluence, and do hereby agree to unite our hands
and hearts in the silken bands of matrimony, as
witiief* our hands, #fc." The jury found a ver
dict for the plaintiff with 2001. damages.
The council of Madrid has itnpofed a duty of
five per cent, in addition to the existing duties,
upon French goods imported into Spain. Other
accounts fay, that this duty is not restricted to
French goods, but extends to tliofe of every na
tion in Europe.
A deputation from Bourdeaux has arrived at
Paris, and offered 011 the part of their condim
ents to aid the views of the national aflembly to
best of their power, and have prayed that
their municipality maybe dirertetl to form it Pelf
on the model of that of Paris.
The dispositions making by Field Marshal Lau
dohn to oppose the King of Pruflia in Bohemia,
should he dare to attack the Austrian dominions,
are To well directed, and the people seem To una
nimous in approving the choice of the Marshal to
diretft all military matters, that it is probable the
Kingot Prulfia will think it molt prudent to re
main quiet for the present.
The Hates of landers and Hannau, have both
declared themselves ltrongly in favor of return
ing to the allegiance of the new King of Hungary
011 the terms proposed by his Majesty. Every
prudent citizen would wish. to do the fame, for it
is impossible now to mistake the motives and ac
tions of the clergy of Brabant, whose sole view
is to aggrandize themselves at the l'acrifice of the
country at large.
Can it be wondered that the capital of France
ftiould be a scene of tumult, fear and dittrels
when we consider for a moment how coiifidera
ble a body of men have fufFered by the revolution.
The abolition of the Noblefle, Clergy, Parlia
ment, Pensions, &c. have reduced so many person*
to absolute dillrefs on the one hand, and the to
tal ltagnation of commerce, and the consequent
want of money on the other, cannot fail to keep
j.5 citizens in continual alarm of some great and
difaltrous event. Ihe Palais Royale in Paris is
every evening filled with politicians, who freelv
and loudly difcufsthe present fituatii>n of affairs'
The democratic party, assisted by the national'
guard, keep the Arillocratics a little in a<v e and
they even go so far as to shut up the Coffee houses
where any of the latter are supposed to meet
"An evening paper fays, we have often heard
oi the Lord s prayer, being written in the com
pass of a (hilling, but have lately seen a piece of
paper of that dimension, which contains in manu
icnpt, the Lord's prayer, the Creed, the ten com.
482
mandments, PfaljuS 11 i; ,13 132,- r?,
and 15Q ; 9th chapter of Proverbs, Prayer of vj'.
ChryfoiVom, two Collects, Prayer for the Royal
Kanuly, Nobility, Clergy, &c. &c. the blessing ;n'd
Junior, 1702, the name of the writer. Thiscuri
ofity is in the poflcflion of Mr. John Reedet. of
Brighton, who being an auctioneer at a i'i]~
where it was lately fold, purchased it on very ta .
fy terms. It is not legible without a good glaft."
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FAIRY TALE.
(A M / M / T A T I 0 X.J
CANTO 11.
Here ? •iduf}v{ and truth wejnd,
tut IJure receive t{teir due;
And tames prove they can be kwd %
IfMoYta/s can be true.
SWEET music fills the glitt'rinj; hall,
The Monarch graccftil ope's the ball,
Then all the train begin ;
With merry pranks, the sprightly elves,
In active gambols plrafe themfeives,
iilythe sports, ne meli'd with fin.
Now here, now there, was Robin seen,
There with the King—here with the ,
all aroupd ;
With nv rry jest. or merry tale,
Or witchen ; withouten fail,
In ev'ry he's
t{ Ccdff cv'ry sport." Hie Monireh cried,
14 Same mortal hither ward doth (Iridc—
'• Lft cv'ry found be still."
All hulh'd they fland, j»M all intent,
Ail anxious wait ng the event,
Unknown if good or ill.
Advancing thro' the ruin? drear,
A mortal's echoing steps they hear,
And fact approachen nigh ;
The door was (hut :—A gentle knock,
Enttrateth courteous to unlock—
And ftraigbt they hear a sigh.
spoke :—the door wide flew—
And ff-'ve a beauteous youth to view,
All dripping from the storm ;
In arms the (tripling was array'd.
And fho* his face befooke a maid,
» Full manly was his torn 1 .
His auburn hair f which e'en the rain,
Had try'd to rob of rurls in vain)
From glitt'ring helmet ftrayVJ ;
At fi»ft lurpnzed and abound,
He modestly forfook his ground,
Thou bow'J, advane'd, and fa id.
Who r'f r ye be, O bcinps bright,
c< 1 hat foort away the dreary nio;ht,
41 Nor heed the jarriug wind ;
11 Or he ve angels, fnrites or elves ;
u Who thus so <;amefon>r, please vourfuves,
* 4 To one fore croU'd, be kind !
\\ i il pleas'd ihc monarch view'd the youth ;
Whole Face bespoke a foul of truth,
And virtues rare poflfcfs'd ;
Bos hrtit to try him, dark! he frown'd,
And roll'd his azure een around,
Then thus his court addrcU'J.
Some envious spirit sure to-night,
" Doth llriveto spoil out sports in spite,
<c And leads these mortals here !
" Rut fore the caitiff shall repent,
1 he froward w;fh that him haih sens,
11 To prv out Fairies gear.
Xo ["toward wish," th'* youth f eply'd,
" Bc't ill or gooA that shall betide,
" Misfortune brought me here »
Quoth Robin, " be hefalfe oi true,
" c have a trick wil! quickly shew—
" If true vou've nought to fear.
No tricks on me"—replyM the youth—
" * W 'H not answer for my truth,
M) fuord I know is true,
" I more than once have try'd the blade."—
And as these w rds the younger said,
The glitt'ring blade he drew.
" If beings of fupcrior kind,
Your power extends to know the mind,
ic And judge if falfe or true ;
But if of mortal mould ye are,
" Airail me not :—or here I swear,
" I'll make ye cause to rue.
Hard is his lot who wanders far,
" And braves the fierceft front of war,
In hopes his friends to find ; y
w hen return*d meets nought but woes,
And finds for friends, mod t»ait'rous toes,
4< And e'en the heav'ns unkind.
" t did not »s a robber comr,
»Vor as a spy ; but far from home,
By chance am led this way,
I ask a place to lay me down.
And dry metill the storm isdon<" -
'* Ne tricks on me ycu play.*'
Hi>blade high lifted n his hand,
W hen Robin wav'd his liiyw^nd,
Like statue he stood.
Down drop'd the sword and chng'd floor,
oo great is Fairjes 'chanting pow'r,
The Granger's lix'd as wood.
Obcron said, «« now teil thy tale,
" ne n fd to wail,
" The falling in our hands.
T he virtuous roor'al we revere,
How'e'er diftrefs'd and poor his gear,
14 He's lov'd by Fairy bands.
(To be continued.)
£PT In thefeconipart of the firfl Canto, fourth line from the ItfiJ*
■ Dlind crews," read " blind newt."
The
Mail Diligence,
L FOR PHILADELPHIA,
, ES the Ferr v- Stalrs . at New-York, Ten mifltites >ft«
Light o'clock every morning except Sunday.
Stage Office, City Tavern, »
Broai-H'ay, Neoi-Yerk June 5,1790, JBoston, June 3, 1790.
Extract from His Excdlettcy Gov.. Hancock's Spicch,
to both Houses of the Legijlature.
«XX TE have, by the blelfing of Divine Provi
\V dence, atchieved a situation truly envia
ble in the eyes of other nations : Our peri'ons
and pofleflions are governed by (landing and
known laws, and fecnred by a Conltiiution for
nied by ourselves. This Conltitution is a law to
the legiflaiive authority itfelf—andleaft the pride
of office, or the hand of lavvlefs power, should
rob the people of their constitutional security, a
proper ballance provided in the Judicial De
partment, occalionally arising from the body of
the people. The price of our freedom has been
great toil, and much expence, and we yet feel the
weight of it : But we teel as tree men, while the
people of some other countries are opprefled with
heavy burthens which have been accumulated, not
to secure, but to dellroy their freedom.
Though the national affairs of our country are
more immediately under the attention of the Ge
neral Government, yet we have very important
bulinefs which demands our attention.
Having formed our governments.and eftabliftied
our independency, we fit down quietly and peace- '
ably, to enquire into, and to perform thole du
ties, which may be reasonably expe(fled from us
in our tranquil situation. And lam very happy
to inform you, that the bulinefs of our meeting is
principally confined to the devising ways and
means for anfweringthe just demands of our pub
lic creditors—making such additional laws as may
be necelfary to mark out the paths of distributive
justice—to adopt such measures as may facilitate
the settlement of the uncultivated parts of the
State—and to devise ways for promoting ufeful
knowledge, and for inculcating those virtues
which are the only solid foundation of public and
private felicity.
Many of the citizens of this Commonwealth,
while the country was prefl'ed on every fide by
danger and distress, freely loaned their proper
ty to the public fafety : And had the most foleinn
aflurances for a re-payment with interest. Others
ventured their lives in the war for our defence,
and received the public faith pledged for 1 coin
penfation, when the war should be terminated.
The eyes of these creditors are now upon us for
justice : And the fufferings of the widow and or
phan demand our attention,
I am fenfiblethat some of the public fecuritles,
evidential of these loans and services, have been
thrown into the hands of persons who have given
but a small consideration for them ; but while we
are convinced that this has in some measure been
owing to the failure of governmental promises,
we onght not to increase the calamity, by unne
ceftary delavS in doing justice. Was it within
the power of the people to pay the debt they owe,
as a government, it would be for their honor and
advantage to do it immediately—but as this can
not be done, the making provision for the punc
tual payment of the interest annually, will be
nearly as well for the creditors. But then in
order to produce this effeift, the payment of this
interest irntft be afTured upon funds which may
be depended upon. In a republican govei nment,
the idea of relponfibility is generally divided a
mongst too many persons to insure that punctual
ity in the performance of promises, which some
other forms of government may afford : There
fore the security of pun<ftual payments is jiot fre
quently well eftablillied, without appropriated
funds—and yet the happiness of every govern
ment, in whatever form it may be, depends es
sentially upon the retftitnde and punctuality of
it. When 1 speak of the happiness of a govern
ment, 1 mean that situation of a civil community,
which has a tendency to make those who compose
it, happy, by affording them security against fo
reign invaders, at well as against internal com
motions—and in defending the individuals over
whom it is extended, against oppression and in
justice.
The debt we are involved in, and which I have
low under conlideration, was contracted for the
omnion defence of the United State*, and I flat.
ermyfelf that justice will finally prevail, so that
:he government lately established will consider
[he whole of the Un ion as responsible to each State
for debts of this nature. In the report of the Se
cretary of the Treasury ofthe United States there
is a proposal for Congress to allume the debts of
thefeveral States—but I am not convinced of the
propriety of the General Government's atl'uming
to pay the debts of this Commonwealth without
the requeftorconfent of this government —but as
it will be more congenial to any (yftem of Finance
which the Congress may adopt, for this class of the
.creditors of this State, to transfer the demands
■to the General Government, on the idea of the
'Jtandinp- credit of our Government, and to have
them involved in the funded debt of the United
states, than to have a claim open in favor of the
Commonwealth, I recommend it to your feriotis (de
liberation, whether inftrutftions may not be given
to our Senators and Beprefentatives on thispoint.'
We hear that them is a profpctt of a happy union of sentiment
>n the Lrgiflature of Mafljf hufctts upon all great national fubjefb,
twjth w;tb refpeft to i nfrlir credit a'd the tedcial government.
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
PUBLISHED
'fMi/ry£i/Aon^y.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THC SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the Citv of New-Yoik, on Monday the fouith
of January, one tho*fand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT supplemental to the act for eftabliftinig
the Salaries of the Executive Officers of Govern
ment, with their Affiltants and Clerks.
BE it enaftfd hv tht Sen ate and House of Repref ntatives of the United
States of AmeucJ m Conorefs ajjemblefl, That the more etfe&ual-
Jy to do and perform the duties in tfto Department -of State, the
.Secretary of the said department be, arid is hereby authorized to
'appoint an additional clerk in his office, who shall be allowed an
equal salary, to be paid in the lame manner as is allowed by law
to the chief clerk.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker oj the House of Reprefentatnef.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Preji dent oj the United Stales
and President of the Senate.
Approved, June fourth, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Seer tary of State.
AN ACT for finally adjuiting and fatisfying the
Claims of Frederick William De Steuben.
BE it enafled by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress ajjenbled, That in order 10 make
full and adequate compensation to Frederick. William De Steuben,
for the facrifices and eminent Services .made and rendered to the
United States during the late vrir, there be paid to the hid Frede
rick William De Steuben an annuity of two thouUnd five hundred
dollars during life, to commence on the full day of January Jail,
to be paid in. quarterly oavments?t the Treasury ol the United
State*; which said annuity shall be considered in lull dilchargc of
all claims and demand* whatever of the said Frederick William
De Steuben against the Umted States.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG
Speaker of the House of Representatives
JOHN ADAMS, of the United Staid
and President oj the Senate.
APPROVED JUNE fourth, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Pref dent »f the United States.
(True Cosy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Sect etary of State.
AN ACT for giving effetft to an art, intituled, "An
a<fb to eftahliih the Judicial Courts of the Uni
ted Stares," within the State of North-Carolina.
BE if e**tled by the Senate and House trf R eprrfcntutives cf the United
States of America in Congress That the act, intitutled,
14 An att to establish the judicial courts of the United States" ihali
have the like force and etfect within the ftateot North-Carolina, as
elsewhere within the Uuited States.
And be it further enafled, That the fa:d ft ite shall be one diftritt,
to be called North-Carolina diflii£t; and there shall be a diltritt
court therein, to conlift of one judge, who shall reside in the dilirtct,
and be called a diAnd judge, and shall hold annually lour felHons;
the fir ft to commence on the firft Monday :n July next, and the
other three si (lions progreflively on the like Monday ot every third
calendar month afterwards. The fUted diftrift court shall be held
at the town of Newbein.
And be it further enacted, That the said diftrift shall be, and the
fame is hereby annexed tothe fouthem circuit: And there shall be
held annually in the said diftri£t, twocucuit courts ; the ft 1 It fellun
of the circuit court shall commence on the eighteenth day ol June
next, the second Seflion on the eighth day of Noveinbei next, and
the subsequent fifliont on the like days of every June and Novem
ber afterwaids, except when any of the days mall happen on a
Sunday, and then the session shall commence the n< xt day follow
ing : And the feflions of the said circuit courts fhail be held at
Newbern :
And be it further entitled, That there (hall be allowed to th c
judge of the laid diftritt, the yearly compenfa/ion of fifteen hu t ).
cred dollar*, to commencefrom his appointment, and to be paid
at the treasury of the United States in quarterly payments.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Sbeaker of the House oj Rrprefentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vici-Prcfiaent ofthe United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, June fourth, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident 0/ the United States,
(True copy.J
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESEN TAr IVES.
MONDAY JUNE 7.
A BILL for extending the judiciary system of
the United States to the Hate of Rhode-Island,
was read the second time, and ordered to be en
grofl'edfor a third reading.
The house proceeded to the consideration of
the report of the committee of the whole, 011 the
bill for fettling the accounts between the United
States and the individual ftaies, and agreed to
the fame. Several amendments were then pro
pored to the bill, some of which were agreed to ;
and on motion of Mr. Scott, aclaufe was added to
encreafe the falariesof the clerks of the coinmif
fioners from 400 dollars per annum, the present
allowance, to 500, the lalaries given in all the
other offices.
Mr. Madison then moved for another amend
ment, the conlideration of which was postponed
till to morrow.
Mr. Liverviore from the committee appointed
for the purpose, reported a bill for the regulati
on of the poll-offices and poll roads.
483
'ATES.
Mr. Sedgwick from the committed appointed for
the purpote, reported a biH for extending the e*
liumeration law of tlie United States, to theltate
of Rhode-lllaiid.
A meflage was received from the President of
the United Sta'es,u>forining"that he had approved
of, and signed the resolutions relpeifting the ar
rears at pay due to the troops of Virginia and
North-Carolina, lately ferviiig. in the army of
the United States.
TUESDAY, JUNE 8.
The bill for giving etfeft to the la w for t-ftaWl filing ihc Judici.il
Courts of the United Slates, in refpetl lolhe State ol Rhode lildnd,
having been engrossed, was read the third time : L'lic Xalary of
the Diftrift Judge was fixed at OncThoufand Dollars ; The blanks
being filled up, the bill was p3IT dto be rnalh d.
The bill for extending the law of the United Slates, providing
forthc enum ration of the inhabitant, to ctyeSutc.of Rhode-
Iflmd, was read the facond time, and re-committed, fpr the pur
pose of adding a c labile, empowering (he Deputies ot the Mariha.s
to require of the heads of families and others, an oath to thetruta
of the returns made by them of the numbers ot inhabitants.
On motion of Mr. Boudinot, a committee was appointed h»
enquire, and report to die Houfr, the buituefs necclfory to he
tranfa&ed previous to an adjournment.
The bill providing l<*r the settlement of the accounts between
the United Sutcsand individual Slates, -was taken into coniidcta
tion..
Several amendments were propofrd and debated. Some of them
weie agreed to, and others rejected.
The bill being finifhed, u was ordered to be for a
thud reading.
A mclTdge was received from the Senate, informing the House,
that they ha c taken into coniideration the Resolution passed the
House the 31ft May, refpe&ing Congress' meeting, and holding
their next kilion in Philadelphia—and have not concurred therein.
The rommitfee to whom was re-committed the bilHor the re
lief ot Nathaniel Twining, reported fcveral amendments to .the
bill. Laid on the table.
The M« tfage tronj the Senate was rend.
A motiou wa» then made to adjourn—which was negatived.
The House refoSved it felt into a committee ot the whole, on the
bill for repealing, after the last day of the duties here
tofore laid on d<(tilled Spirits of foreign manufacture, and laying
others in their stead. The bill being read, foine progress w;»*
made in the dilcuflion—the committee then Tofe, and the House
adjourned.
IN SENATE, TUESDAY, JUNE 8.
On motion, the Senate agreed to postpone tne btll for tftablin*-
ing the feat ot government of the Uuited States, and the repoit
of Committee thereon—and to take up the Resolution <yf the House
pasTed the 31ft of May.
This Resolution was non-concurred 13 to 11.
The opinion ot theSeuate was taken 44 Wnether it is expedient
at this time to determine the permanent feat of government of the
United Statts, and the question determined in the negative.
On motion to till up the blank in the bill for fixing \he per
manent refidt nee with the words— 44 The cafterly banks of the
Potowmack." It pafT< d <n the negative.
Baltimore and W.lmingtou were then p<opofcd and were also
negatived.
[iL uAZLiOt iiit CiMlLi) bl
Mr. Fen.no,
NO! HING evinces more forcibly the high value of a federal
government, founded on the great democratic priticiple of
representation, than the conduct of the House of Reprcfentativts
ot the United States. Irs members extend their patemd earc
equally over every past of this gtfeat empire—nothirtg escapes (heir
minute releaiche« to wenefit every part of t+*c Union—While mapy
regulations in the collection laws shew how attentive they have
been to avoid opjpreflion ; they have unifoimly manifelted au
ardent desire to accomodate all their eonftituerits, by aflxgning nu
merous ports and diftrifts for the convenience of commerce—nay*
in foine inlbnces, this dilpofttion seems to have I d them almost
to Sacrifice that fccurity, which the due colle&ion of the revenue
requires. These obfervationsarccorroborated by a late tranfattion.
The committee recently appointed for the purpo/e of bringing
in a bill for extending the revenue laws of the United States, to the
State of Rhode-1 reported that foreign (hips, and all vessels
coming trom China or the Ealt Indies, should be lirrtitted to the
port of Newport—the size ol that State would lead one to suppose
that one port was fully Sufficient for all its purposes of foreign
commerce ; but lurh was the desire of that body to extend the ad
vantages of commerce to all ports that were in a capacity of enjoy
ing and benefiting by them,that they added the port of Providence,
on the motion of Mr. Sedgwick, who afligned this reason, in favor
of it, that he h?d been informed by a worthy and intelligent gen
tleman trom that State, that it was the wish of foine of its inha
bitants.—What could juflify the foregoing remarks more fully ?
Americans ! while you employ such men as agents, regard not
the nialcvolence of the fnarlingand inGduous—creatures who live
in faction, and ertift upon the vapors of a foul imagination—-who
may be traced like the friail upon the rock, by the slime of defa
mation they leave behind them ? J,,
NEW-YORK, JUNE 9, 1790.
APPOINTMENTS. BY AUTHORITY.
Made the 7th and Bih instants.
Richard Harrison, of Virginia, Consul for the port of
Cadiz, <scc.
John Marsden Putard, of New-York, for the Island at
Madeira, &c.
James Maury, of Virginia, for the port of Liverpool, &c,
William Knox, of New-York, for thc port of Dublin, &c.
James Fen wick, ot Maryland, tor the port ot Bourdeaux.
Burrell Car nes, of Mailacliufetts, for the port of Nantz.
Nathan 1 £ l Ba« r t it, of MaflTachufetts, for the port of Rouen.
Sy l v anus Bou r n e, of M<iffachufctts,for the port of Hifpaniola.
Fuli var Skipwith, of Virg nta, for the port of Martinique,
Dijlrifl of North Carotin*.
William R. Davie, Judge.
John Sitcreaves, Attorney.
John Skinner, Marshall.
Territory of the United States South of the River Ohio.
William Blount, Governor.
David Campbell arid John McNairy, Judges.
Daniel Smith, Secretary.
or " T/iomas Secupes," in the appointments in our lafl, read
Thomson Seayres.
The Ship Margaret, Blaine, from New-York,
is arrived at Londonderry, in 24 dayspaflage.
The Aftrea, Magee, is arrived atßofton, after
a paflage of 125 days from Canton in China.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. HEIV-YORK*
Packet Duke of Cumberland, Falmouth 49 days.
Brig Betsey Motley Charleston 9 days.
Schooner Queen, Potter, Shelburne. 6 dayi.
Return, Olwood, St. John's 16 days.
Brotheri, Peters, Demarara, 24 day*«,
-■■ Betsey, Brocks, Philadelphia, xFROM THOMAS's MASSACHUSETTS SPY.
ODE,
TO CONNECTICUT RIVER.
GLIDE, fair Conneflicut, glide on,
And bear thy chryftal waters down t .
In current to the main ;
Meandering through impervious woods
And proves, whofc (hade project thy floods,
Ne'er kenn'd by rural swain.
11.
On northern mounts, which prop the Ikies,
Thy liquid streams in embryo rife,
Thence falling drench their fides ;
Colle£ting then thyfeparnte fprin»s,
Each to thy fount its tribute brings,
To aid thy swelling tides
lII.*
Far in the north, and at thy head,
Though small, by rivulets when fed,
Pride of Columbian floods;
In all thy way ihy power augments,
While they discharge their full contents,
Hoarse murmuring through the woods.
' IV "
When thus conjoin'd, thy waters rol\
Descending tow'rd th'Antarctick Pole,
Majestically (low ;
Save where by hills and rocky force,
Impeded is thy winding couife,
, Impetuous there they flow.'
Such rocks at Walpole's lofty bridge,
On cither fide a broken ridge
Ascending high areiecn ;
Their horrid tops with fpru :e are crown'd,
And opaque hemlocks made the ground,
The waters pent between.
VI
And pent th* indignant waters roar,
And lafti with ftrcngth the rocky ihore,
Impatient of their bound ;
Then prone they plunge the dreadful deep,
In broken cataract seek the deep,
While thunder swells the found.
VII.
Descending then, thy waters lave
The fertile shores with milder wave, ,
Where richer profpe&s rife ; •
Springfield and Hartford owe their trade,
Their commerce to thy powerful aid,
And know thy worth to prize.
VIII.
Thence (loops fwift in the watery chace,
And bulky barks thy furface grace
With choicest treafurc* crown'd ;
From foreign kingdoms thofc import
Riches that well adorn a court,
And these dispense them round.
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE U KIT ED STATES.
DISCOURSES ON DJVILA.
'Ti» from high life, high characters are drawn,
A faint in crapc, is twice a faint in lawn.
PROVIDENCE, which has placed one thing
over against another, in the moral as well as
physical world, has furprizingly accomodated
the qualities of men, to answer one another.
There is a remarkable disposition in mankind to
congratulate with others in their joys and prof
perity, more than to fynipathize with them in
their sorrows and advcrlity. We may appeal to
experience. There is less disposition to congra
tulation with genius, talents or virtues, than
there is with beauty, strength and elegance of
person ; and less with these, than with the gifts
of fortune and birth, wealth and fame. The ho
mage of the world is devoted to these lafl in a re
markable manner. Experience concurs with re
ligion in pronouncing, molt decisively, that this
world is not the region of virtue or happiness ;
both are here atfehool, and their (truggles with
ambition, avarice, and the desire of fame, appear
to be their discipline and exercise. The gifts of
fortune are more level to the capacities, and
more obvious to the notice of mankind in gene
ral : and congratulation with the happiness or
fancied happinels of others, is agreeable; iyin
pathy with their misery is disagreeable ; from
the former source we derive pleasure, from the
latter, pain. The sorrow of the company at a
funeral, may be more profitable to moral purpos
es, by fuggelting ufeful reflections,than the mirth
at a wedding; but it is not so vivid nor so sin
cere. The acclamations of the populace at an
ovation or triumph, at a coronation or inftallati
on,are fromthe heart, and their joy is unfeigned.
Their grief at a public execution is less violent
at least ; if their feelings at such fpetftacles were
very distressing, they would be less eager to at
tend them. What is the motive of that ardent
curiosity to fee fights and shows of exultation*?
the proceflions of princes ? the ostentation of
wealth ? the magnificence of equipage, retinue,
furniture, buildings and entertainment ? There
is no other answer to be given to these questions,
than the gaiety of heart, the joyous feelings of
congratulation with such appearance? of felicity.
And for the vindication of the ways ofGod to man,
and the perpetual consolation of the many who
are fpecftators, it is certainly true, that their 1
pleasure isalwaysas great, and commonly much
greater, than that of the few who are the a<stors.
National passions and habits areunweildy, un
•manageable and formidable things. The num
ber of persons in any country, who are known
even by name or reputation to all the inhabitants,
is, and ever mufi be very final!. Those, whose
characters have attracted the affeiftions, as well
JUVENIS.
No. IX
as the attention of an whole people, ricquire an
influence and ascendancy that it is difficult to re
fill. In proportion as men rife higher in the
world, whether by election, descent or appoint
ment, and are cxpofed to the observation of great
er numbers of people, the effects of their own
passions, and of the affections of others for them
become more serious, interesting and dangerous.
In elective governments, where firlt magistrates
and senators are at Hated intervals to be chosen,
these, if there are no parties, become at every ■
frefli election, more kno>vn, considered and be
loved, by the whole jjation. But, if the nation
is divided into parties, those who vote for a man,
become the more attached to him for the oppofi
tion, that is made by his enemies. This national
attachment to an elective firft magistrate, where
thereis no competition, is very great : but where
there is a competition, the paflions of his party,
are inflamed by it, into a more ardent enthuliafm.
If there are two candidates, each at the head of a
parry, the nation becomes divided into two nati
ons, each of which is, in fact, a moral person, as
tuucli as any community can be so, and are soon,
bitterly enraged against each other.
It has been already said, that in proportion as
men rife higher in the world, and are exposed to
the observation of greater numbers, the effects of
these passions are more serious and alarming.
Impreifions on the feelings of the individual, are
deeper ; and larger portions of mankind become
interested in them. When you rife to the firft
ranks, and consider the firft men ; a nobility
who are known and respected at least, perhaps
habitually esteemed and beloved by a nation ;
princes and kings, 011 whom the eyes of all men
are fixed, and whose every motion is regarded,
the consequences of wounding their feelings are
dreadful, because the feelings of an whole nati
on, andfometimes of many nations, are wounded
at the fame time. If the smallest variation is
made in their Situation, relatively to each other j
if one who wasinferiour is raised to befuperiour,
unlets it be by fixed laws, whose evident policy
and necessity may take away disgrace, nothing
but war, carnage and vengeance, has ever been
the usual consequence of it. In the examples of
the houses Valois and Bourbon, Guise and Mont
morency, Guifeand Bourbon, and Guise and Va
lois, we have already seen very grave efFe<fts of
these feelings, and the history of an hundred
years which followed, is nothing but a detail of
other, and more tragical effects of similar causes.
(Tobe continued.)
Trdhjlatcifrom the "French Patriot,"* apapcr
puklijhcd by M. De Warville. Jar. i.
Ex trad oj a Utter from Switzerland.
YOU are right in supposing that ariftoqracy ex
ists in Swiczerland : Nothing is morearifto
cratic than the government of fame Cantons—but,
nothing is more opposite, than what exists in Tome
others. There is not on entjre agreement be
tween the different forms of government which
we find in the country, known under the general
name of Switzerland : You find here nations the
most free of any upon the face of the earth, and
others equally despotic, governed as they were in
France, under Louis XIV. The French fugi
tives reside for the most part in the latter, and for
hospitality and conformity of sentiments, tliey
find here every body in unison with them, and
for my part 1 find myfelf almost alone. There is
among our refugees a rage, a rancor, and animo
sity which furpafles all belief—and there is no
species of horrors and infamy, which they do not
daily utter against the Aflembly, Paris, and the
Nation. Agreeable to this every body here lives
in hope of another, and a contrary revolution
which they foment to the utmoitof their power.
* At the head of this paper is the following fenlcnce : A free
Gazette, and a Sentinel, which V'atchesinccffanily for the people.
EXTRACT.
A Writer in the Boston Independent Chronicle
obterves, "As a young and growing nation.calling
into action all the poifible resources of which eve
ry part is poflefl'ed, is in facfl, enriching and Cup
porting the whole : The interests of the Southern
and Northern divisions of this extensive conti
nent, are by no means incompatible What are
we to infer then, from the multiplied petitions
and remonstrances with which the congreflional
table has been piled, from the Eafhvard of the
Hudson ? The inference is plain; the people are
in a ftifFering and it is thus that fheir
fufferings are declared—What are wc to infer
from the silence of the citizens to the southward '
That their comparative situation is better, and
they therefore are contented But why these lo
cal diltindions ?—Are we not the fame people >
Does not the malady of a part, direcftly or indi"
recftly, mediately or immediately, communicate
irs baneful influence to the body at large .'—Will
Georgia or the Carolinas be at ease, if the Mafli
chufetts Connecticut or New-Hampshire were
undone-Offence and defence, are the great
objects of the social compact.
The efforts ofthe Seamen and Manufacturers of
America, were a great inftrument-they were in
deed the axis of the late revolution "
484
SLAVERY. AN extract.
NARAGANSET in Rhode-Island, is a feuile
trad: of country, laid out in rich inclofurc'
and it may be jullly itiled the garden of America'
This charming country about lixty years aa 0 '
literally enjoyed all tiie l'vveers of the golden age
—but mark the event! —thefe happy farmers m
those days, were infatuaLed with importing Haves
and they have entailed upon their poilericy t li«
curse of indolence, and every species Qf cori m,.
tion and dilfipation, and it is these unfortunate
beings who have influenced the difgraceful policv
and projected the measures which nearly rui!,!
Ed the chara<ster of thatftate.
ANECDOTE
One reason why Dortor Johnson's memory was
so particularly exact, might be derived/w,; fa
rigid attention to veracity ; being always refolded
to relate every faVft as it flood, "he looked on the
fr.ialler parts of life with minute attention, and
remembered such paflages as escape curforyand
common observers.
" A story (fays he) is a fpecnnen of human
manners, and derives its sole value From, iis truth
When Foote has told me something, I ilifmif's it
from my mind like apalTing (hadow": When Rev
nolds (Sir Joshua) tells me something, I conlide
niyfelf as poflefled of an idea more.
B O S T O N, May 23.
SUICIDE.
We hear from Amherflt, (N. H.) that oneKttj
the perl'on who was convicted of fettingfiie to the
barn of Jofliua Atherton, Efq ; (by which it was
entirely consumed with its content) ajid for
which lie was sentenced by the court to Hand in
the pillory one hour, and receive 20 stripes—set
on the gallows, and receive 50 (tripes, 011 Friday
lail took an effectual and sure method to evade
that puniflnnent which a crime so heinous juftlv
merited. After feiuence was palled upon hia,
he was remanded back to prison, when thejailor
brought him in a plate ol virtuals with a knife
and fork, and withdrew. After some time the
jailor returned to fee his prisoner, when shock
ing to relate, he beheld A'?/ftretched out upon
the floor a corpse, with his throat cut from ear
to ear ! The knife which was brought hiin 10
eat his dinner with, he made use of to effetft lb
dreadful a purpose.
from Hollis we likevvife learn, that a tnan in
that town put an end to his life by hanging him
fclf in his barn.
ALBANY, May 2>.
) efterday afternoon his Excellency the Gover
noi, his honor the Lr. Governor, the hoooraWf
zra L Hommedieu and Richard Varick. Efqrs.
tour of the conimiffioners of this State, for nego
tiating treaties with the Indians, arrived in this
city. 1 hefe gentlemen, with the Hon. Abraham
1 en Broeck, Gen. Peter Ganfevoort, also Corn
miflioners, we are informed, will fliortly set off
for Fort-Schuyler where a treaty wi.h certain of
the Indian fribes residing within this State, is to
be holden the firlt day of June next.
Bethlehem Stages.
T"HE great number of Mifles, who from the bapks of the Dela-
A ware East ward, even to Boston, are now at the young ladies
Academy at Bethlehem, renders some regular, convenient aßd
chrap of conveyance between thattown and New York ut
celTary. i o accommodate parents who have daughters atthat flou
rifhing Academy, and others who may wish to visit that pleafirg;
romantic hill, the fubfejibers are now running stages, which \*ill
continue during the summer, between Elizabeth Town Point and
icthlchem. At each of their places a stage will start every Mo'n
lay and Thursday morning at 5 o'clock, meet at Covcnhovto's
ivern the lame evening, exchange pafTcngcrs, and the next day
return,
fare of each pnflenger from Elizabeth Town Point to Bethle
hern 3 dollars— way paflengers 4d per mile—lsolb. of baggage
the Utme as a Packages and letters will be received »d
c elivered at Mrs. Winant's, White hall, where feats maybcta
" carr 'ag e of a letter 3d —141b. of baggare allowed to cach
pailenger.
I o accomodate those who may wish to take Bethlehem in their
route in journey t»ig between the Ealtern and Southern states, a
fta-e will constantly run between Bethlehem and Philadelphia,
ilarting at Bethlehem every Monday morning.
May ig.
James F. Sebor,
Have it moved from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, neat At
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kinds of PUBLICK
SECURITIES-BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c. aiufuilt
A erv~ York. April 8. 17QO. *tf.
§ CONTINENTAL §
> STATE SECURITIES, §
BOUGHT AND SOLO,
""V 196. WAT*" -
AT NO. ig6. WATER-STREET.
C (£3" A gcncr-ous price will be given for Military Rights ofl
5 and. Jcrfcj Paper Money. May 4- J
TO be Sold, an elegant dwelling house, in every circumstance
fitted for a gentleman with a larpje family, situated in a ver Y
pleasant part of Elizabeth Town, New-Jersey. The lot con
tains abont four acres, on which is a very good garden, an a
variety of the best fruit trees. The terms of payment can be mad
so easy as to suit the purchaser. £001 lire of the Subfcribcr >t
12, Wall-Street. 1 EL lAS BOUDINOT-
June 2, , 73 0, 1
. '. ! $ '
WILLIAM CRANE.
FREDERICK BEUTEt