/
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN —"
No - 4'. BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 19, cf Vol. ll.]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UN [TED STATES.
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA N O . X.
Wife if a but if a king
More wife, more Icara'd, more just, more every thin-.
'T'HERE is scarcely any truth more certain or
,nore evident, than that the nobles of Eu
rope, are, in general, left happy, than the coin
inon people.— There is on? irreft-:>.g V oof „f
it, which it, that they do not maintain their own
population. Families, like stars, or candles,
which you will, are going out continually, ; and
without frefh recruits from the plebeians, the no
bility would in time be extindl. If you make al
lowances for the ilate, which they are condemn
ed by themselves and the world to support, they
are poorer than the poar ; deeply j» debt, and
tributary to usurious capitalists, as greedy as the
Jews. . The kings of Europe, in the fight of a
philosopher, are the greatest slaves upon earth ;
how often soever we may call them despots, ty
rants, and other rude names, in which our pride
and vanity takes a wonderful delight, they have
the least exercise of their inclinations, the lead
personal liberty, and the least free indulgence of
their passions of any men alive. Yet how rare
are the instances of reflations, and hew univer
sal is the ambition to be noble, and the wish to
r °y al - Experience and philosophy are loft
upon mankind. The attention of the world has
a charm in it, which few minds can withstand.
The people consider the condition of the ereat in
all those delusive colours in which imagination
can paint and gild it, and reason can make little
lemlance, to this impetuous propensity. To bet
ter their condition, [0 advance their fortunes
without limits, is the object of their constant de
foe, the employment of all their thoughts by day
and by night They feel a peculiar" fy mpatliy
with that pleasure, which they prcfume those en
joy, who are already powerful, celebrated and
ncii "wc favour," fays a E r wt writer, ' aii
*• their inclinations, and forward all their wish
« £?' •, P, 7' WC th '" k - thac a,, y thing
o spoil and corrupt lb agreeable a firuati
„ pn : we could wish them immortal, and
it teems hard to fts, that death should at last
put an end to> such perfect enjoyment. It is
cruel we think in nature, to compel them from i
their exalted ftat.ous, to that humble, but hof
pi table home, which she has provided for all
her children. Great king, i lve forever ,; g
the compliment, which, after the manner of
ealtern adulation, we should readily make
'hem, it experience did not teach us its absur
dity. Every calamity that befrls them, every
<< 'TP r i" cxcites '» the breait
of the fpedlator ten times niore'compaffion and
' " fent " l .ent, than he would have felt, had the
fame things happened toother men ; it is the
i, tnis for tunes 01 kings only, which afford the
„ P r ° P s r ,ub for tragedy ; they referable,
„ ii l . the misfortunes of lovers.
„ V, hefe two fixations arc the chief which inter
-4< C ii u S np °V he theatre; because, in fpight of
( . all that re ason and experience can tell us to the
<< tachTork c e P re j" cllces of the imagination, at-
tach to these two ftatesa happinefi superior to
„ a »y other. To disturb orpntanend to fucli
pei fet-t enjoyment, seems to be the most atro
;; "? USor a ." '"juries. The traitor who con
spires against the lite ofhis monarch,is thought
" r rnonfte [; thanan y » th «- murderer
Ail the innocent blood that was shed in the ci
„ tlea - h ot c Miles the firft. a stranger to hu
«< n ' au liau,re >. "ho saw the indifference of men
'< Set Ut and e i m r e ' y ° ftheir inferiors > and the re
grec and indignation which they fed for the
n,,rf„m,„ cs , nJ fi^rinpof,b6fcSoTethcm
"Zf .?"!"■ •" '"i*™' l»i« must be
" n ore tSw! 6 L '' e ro » v «Hions of death
« than
„ Upon this (iifpofition of mankind, to <r 0
" erf uP Z't VY f ai 'i° ~S 'he rich and pow
" teor • the diltilldion ranks"and
*< our fnnpr Our obfeqnioufnefs to
" admirnr f '" e q uc "tly arises from our
« T tllC a :' V3ma S es °ftheir fituati
frau rom a V private expectations of bene
« cnen'n r eirg °, o,i WilL Their benefics can
eft aim wl aVV } buC their fortunes inter
« rlif" eVC ,' T bod >'" We are eager to aHi It
" ? ? c °mpleatmg a system of happiness that
:t J' ' ( "^ ICS -> near to perfection ; and we de
" •Iriv «» V ® lem f ° r their own fake > without
•X) othei recompencc but the vanity or the
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 16, i 7po ,
u honor of obliging them. Neither is ourde
ference to their inclinations founded chiefly,
« Zl k ?? th ?' U P°" 3 re gard to the utility of
: l h r:?T' arid order Of foclety,
" Wh , lch best Supported hy it. Even when the
order of society seems to require that we should
oppo e them, we can ..crdly bring ourfelvesto
do it. That kin© at .• •he servants of the peo
« pie, Cobr Hgri, re ,. ;d, deposed, or punifh
f,' P ub ' ,c convenlency may require, is
the dwftnne of realon and pliilofophy ; but it
is not the docftnne of nature. Nature would
teach us to submit to them, for their own fakes,
n° l . rcill anc * down before their exalted
nation, to regard their (mile as a reward fuf
„ "''f'ttocompenfateany services, and to dread
r 11" P^ ea^ure > though no other evil was to
" follow from it, as the severest of all mortifica
tions. jo treat them in any respect as men,
to reaion anddifpute with them tipon ordina
" ry occasions, requires such resolution, that
tliere are few men whose magnanimity can,
unlet s they are likewise
aliilted by familiarity and acquaintance. The
itrongeft motives, the mod furious passions,
fear, hatred and refenrment, are scarce fufh
cient to balance this natural difpolition to re
spect tliem : and their condudt mud either
" J uft 'y or unjustly, have e::cited the higheftde
" gree of all those paflions, before the bulk of
" the people can be brought to oppose »hem with
iolence, or todefire to fe<? them either punifli•
" ed or deposed. Even when the people have
" been brought this length, they are apt to re
" lent every moment, and ealily relapse into
" their habitual ftateof deference. They can
not stand the mortification ot their monarch ;
compaifion soon takes the place of resentment,
" they forget all part pro* cations, their old
principles of loyalty 1 eviv , and they run to
" re-eftablifli the ruiimd .; t y of their 4»l«l
matters, with the lanie violence with which
they had opposed it. The death of Charles
tiie 111 ft, brought about the restoration of the
loyal family. Companion for James the second,
when hevvasfeized hy the populace, in making
his el cape on {hip board, had almost prevented
the revolution, and made it go on more heavi
" ly than before.
( To be continued. )
Boston, May 6, 1790.
EASTERN CIRCUIT COURT*.
The CHARGE of Chief Justice JAY, to the Grand
Juries of the Eastern Circuit.
TX7HF.TH I.R any peoplecan long govern themselves in an e.
V quul uniform and orderly manner, is a question which the
a .vocates tor free governments judiy conlider as being exceedingly
important to the caufc of liberty. Tnis question, I.ke others
whose solution depends on sash can only be determined by ex'
perience : It ' S a question on wh.ch many think tome room for
makin h C,na ' nS ' Ms " J™' had fcW ta ' r °PP°«U'«"es of
makingthe experiment; and this is one reason why less progrefi
nas been made m the fcence ot government, than in aim ,11 any
other. Ihe tar greater number of- the conllitution. and covert).
ments of which we are informed, have originated in force or in
raud ; having been either impofcd by improper excriions of
"! : f° ! C u d bv th V? of d cfignii. B individuals, whose
apparent zeal for liberty, ..id the public good, enabled then. to
take advantage of the credulity and misplaced confidence of their
lellow-citizens.
Providence has been pleafcd to blcfs the people of this country,
with m-.re pcrfeft opportunities of choosing, and more effcau'al
means of eltablilhing their own government than joy other nation
has hitherto enjoyed ; and foriheufe we may make of these op
portun'ties, and of these means, we (hull be highly responsible to
i "f ov '""ice, as well as to mankind in general, and toour own
polleriiy in particular. Our deliberates and proceadines, being
unawed and uniiifluenced by power or corruption, domcftic en
loreign, are perfectly free—our citizens arc generally and greatlv
enlighicned and our country is Co extenfiw, that the personal in-
Huenceo[popular individuals, «n rarely embrace large poitions
"'it ihe mltitution of general and State governments—their ref
pcctive conveniences, and defefls in pra&ice, and the subsequent"
alterations made in some ot them, have operated as ufeful experi
ments, and coiifpired to promote our advancement in this inter
filing science. It is pleating to observe, that the present national
government, already affords advantages, which the preceding one
k fO n C M i°II ,ecb J c and l!l conftru &«i "» produce. How far it may
e (till d ftant from the degree of perfeaion to which it may pol
liDly be carried, time only can decide. It is a co.folation to re
lhat the Rood sense ot the people will be enabled, by ex
perience. to d.fcover and correct us imperfeflions, especially
while they continue to retain a proper confidence in themselves,
and avoid those jealou/ies and diillntions, -which, often (pringing-
Irom the woift deligns, frequently trullratethe bed meafurej.
Wi e and virtuous men, have thought and reasoned very dif
lereiuly, rcfpefting government ; hut in this, they have at length
intn r l H ,an '!rn Un K 3gr ! Cd ' Vlz -~ ' rh " its powers thould be divided
nto three diftmft, independent departments ; the executive, legif
ati 'e and judicial. But how to c.mftitute and balance them, in
liJCh a manner as best to guard againll abuse and fluc'l nation, and
. rvethe CQiiftitunon from encroachments, are points on-which
t ere continuts to be a great diverfitv of opinions, and on which
'as mucl) to l"rn. The constitution of tfce United
Sates, has accordingly instituted these three departments ; and
much pains have been taken so to form and define them, as that
ey lna y operate as checks one on the other, and keep cach with
in Its proper limits : It being umverfally agreed, to be of the last
489
importance to a free pe-ple tha; [hey who are vdled with exec,,,
"vc, legi native and judicial powers, ihould reft fatisficd with their
r lpeclive p .rt,nnsot power—.nd neither encroach on the pro
vince. of each other, nor fuffcr themfcK* nor the others to inter,
meddle With the ri n hts refeived by the Cotillitution, to the peopl,
11 then so much depends on our rightly improving the before
mentioned c pportumtieS ; if the moll difccrning and enlightened
Sr«'e " :n "' ljttn relative to THEORILS, unconfirmed by
1 Jt - h !» on fu-H difficult quellions, men may differ in
pinion aud vr»~be patriots—and .t the merits of uur opinions
on only be i tainer? by experience— let us patient*/ abide ihc
trial and unite our endeavors to render it a fair and impartial or*.
inelc remarks may not appear very pertinent to the prefect oc
canon and yet tt will be readily admitted, that occaflom of pro
moting good will and good temper, and the progress of ufcful
truths among our fellow-citiiens, fliould not be omitted These
motives urge me further to observe, that a variety of local and
other ctrcumflarices, rendered the formation of the judicial dc
parrment, particclai ly difficult.
We had become a natian-as such we were rrfponfible to othe-j
for the observance ol the lam ef nations ■ and as our national coh
| cerns were to be related by national lam—national tribunals
Became ncceifary tor the intei pieiation and execution of them both.
l\o tribunals of the like kind and extent had heretofore exited
in this country ; from such therefore, no %ht of experience, nor
tHCiii.ies of usage and habit were to be derived. Our lurifpm.
deuce vaned in almost every State, and was accommodated to lo
cal, not genua! convenience—to partial, not national policy
I his convenience and this policy, were neverthclefsto be regarded,
and tenderly treated. A judicial coutroul, general and final, wa»
• lndifpenfable—the manner of rfUliflang it, with powers neither
too extensive, nor too limited : rendering it properly independent
»nd yet properly amenable, involved questions of no little intrica
cy. The expediency of carrying justice as it were to every man'*
door, was obvious ; but how to do it 111 an expedient manner wa 4
tar from being apparent. To provide against discord between
national and State jiinfdiftion*, to render them auxiliary instead
ol no'file to each other ; ani (<> t<» connect both an to leave each
lulhciently independent, and yet fufficicntly combined, was, and
will he arduous.
Inllitijtions formed uoder such circumllnnces, (hould therefore
he received with candor and tried with temper and prudence I
was under these embarrafling circuinftances, that the aniclet in
n , C ?'^ ltU " o l n as well as the-aft of Congirfs fti,-
the judicial courts of the United States, were made
Under the authority of tl.at ast, this court now fits—its iurlf.
d'Ction is two-fold civil and criminal: to the exerrife of the fuller.
y>u, gentlemen, arc ncctflary, and for that purpol'c are now con
vesica.
Ibe in o y--i> cC-r.-l • •.'i.' .r—J!,r ;;i governments, and the
wilelt laws, are vain, unless well (dminiftied ami wen obevm
Virtuous cittferis willobferve thein from l fenfc o! duty j but thole
ol an oppofue defcriptien. can be reftr. Ned only by irar of
diigr.ee and pum(hment. Such beingthe state of things, it is e r .
fential to the welfare of focietv, and to the protection of each mem
ber ol it in the peaceable enjoyment of his righis, that otfende-s
be punilned.
Ine end of puniftiment, however, is not to expiate for offen
es; but bv'the terror of example, to deter men t.om the com
ri,ll""i 'htm. To render these examples ufeful, policy as wcil.
s morality, require not only th.it puniftiment be proportionate to
;uili, hut that all proceedings agaiqft oerfons ac-ufcd or lufpefled
•"-comp.nied by ,he nfUaion that .hey may i, c inno
ent. Hence therefore, it is propet that difpaflionate and careful
i.quirylhould precede those rigours, which juft.ee exacts, and
v .led Ihould always be tempered with as much humanityand be
itvolence as the nature of such cases mav admit. Warm, partial
in pricipitate profeeutions, and cruel and abominable exocu
''j'l racli5 > drawing, quartering, burning,
.nd the ike 're no left impolitic than inhuman. They infufc into
j'tn' C n ". n ' disgust at the barbarous feiverity of government
ind fill ,t with pity, and partiality for the fufferers. On the con
rary, when ollenders are prosecuted with temper and decency -
en they are conv.aed, after impartial trials, and punilhed in a
nanner becoming the dignity of public jurtice to prelcribe, the
eelmgjand fentnnents of men, will be on the fide of government;
ind however d.fpofed they may, and ou ht to be to regard fuf!
enng offenders with companion ; yet that compaflion will never
>e unmixed with a due degtee of indignation
We are happy, that the genius of our laws is mild, and we have
ibundant reason to rejoice, in pofleiring one of the bed institutions
hat ever was devised, for bringing .A nders to justice, without
ndani-eivng peace and fecunty of the innocent, I mean that
»l Grant. Junes. Greatly does it tend to promote order and
;ood government, that m every dill, ift, there should frequently
Jeallemoled a number ot the most difcrect and refpeftable citi
:en» in it, who on their oaths are bound to enquire into, and pre
en! all ofle.ices committed against the laws in fucli diftria—and
greatly docs it tend to the quiet and faftty of good and peaceful ci.
izens, that no man can be put in jeopardy for imputed crimes
. I'houl such previous enquiry and presentment. The exient of
your_d.(tritf, gentlemen, which is commensurate with the State,
lcceflarily extends your duty throughout every county in it, and
demands proportionable diligence in your enquiries, and circum
pcttion in your prefeptments.
I he objeas of your enquiry are, all offences committed against
lie laws of the United States in this diftria, or on the high Teas
»V pet lons now in the diftria. You will lecollea that the laws
it nations make part of the laws of this, and of every other civil
ized nation. Theyconfiftof those rules for regulating theconduft
J n ' UlOn * towar ds each other, which, resulting from right reason.
receive their obligation from that principle, and from general as.
sent and prafiice. To this head also belong, those rul?s or laws
which by agreement become eltabliihed between particular nati.
nns, and of this kind are treaties, conventions, and the like com.
patts. Asm private life,a fair and legal contraa between two
men, cannot be annulled or altered by either, without the coqfent
nt the other, so neither can treaties between nations. States and
legiftatures may repeal their regulating flatutes, but ihey canqoc
repeal then bargains. Hence it is, that treaties fairly made and
concluded, are puieaiy obligatory, and ought to be punauallv
obierved. We are now a nation, and it equally becomes us ta
perfoi m our duties as to allert Our rights.
The penal statutes of the United States are few, and principally
relpect the revenue. The right orderingaud management of this
important business, is very eflcntial to the credit, charaaer and
prolpenty of our country. On the citizens at large, is placed the
burthen of providing for the public exigencies : Whoever there. '
tore fraudulently withdraws his fhouldcr from that common bur
»ien, neccllarily leaves his portion of the weight to be borne by
t e oJiej s. »nd thereby doesinittftice, not only tt> the government
rut to them. °
$kse
[Whole No. 123.33>ire& your attention aita to the fconduft of the nationalofocers
and let not any corruptions,frauds, extoniops, or criminal neg
ligencies, with which you may find any of them justly chargeable,
pass unnoticed. In a word, Gentlemen, Your province and your
duty extend (as has been before observed) to the enquiry and pre
sentment ot all offences of eveTy kind committed againftthe ni j"
cd States in thisdiftri&, or on the high seas by pcrfons in it.
in the performance bf your duty, you Ihould meet with difficulties,
the court will be ready to'afford you proper afliftance.
It cannot be too ftronglv imprefled on the minds of us all, how
greatly our individual prosperity depends on our national proipo
lity ; and how greatly our national orofperity depends on a well
organized, vigorous government, ruling by wife and equal laws,
faithfully executed, nor is such a government unfriendly to liber
ty to that liberty which is really inestimable. On the contrary,
nothing but a strong government of laws,irrtlillably bearing down
arbitrary power andlicentioufnefs, can defend it agaiuft those two
formidable enemies. Let it be remembered, thaf civ liberty con
sists, not in a right to every man to do just what he pleases—but it
consists in an equalright to all the citizens to have, enjoy, and to do
in peace, security, and without moleftaiion, whatever the equal
and constitutional law* of the country admit, to be confident
with'the public good. It is the duty and the interest, therefore, |
of all good citizens, in their several stations to support the laws
and government, which thus prote£l their rights and liberties. I
am persuaded, Gentlemen, that you will chearfully and faithfully
perform the tafknow afligned you: and I forbear, by additional
retparfcs, to detain you longer from it.
rTo the foregoing Charge, the following REPLY uvs made by the
Grand-Jury,for the Majfuhujctts DijfriH.]
IT PLEASE YOUR HONOURS,
THE Very excellent charge givrn lothe Grand-Jury of this d'«-
trift, by his Honor the chief Judge ot the Federal court, demands
our thanks', and particular attention : And that it may be more in
fluential, and iraprefs the minds of our It'll;) -v citizens at large, w
beg leave to ask a copy of it for the pre!.
Your Honou s may be assured, wr*fh i> <everal depart-
Tnents, when dismissed, exert our in&u* x promote peacc,
good order, and a ftrift regard to the la\A s of toe I niti d Stairs,
agreeably to the constitution so lately adopted • and we trust thr
judicial department will ever be filled, as ii now is with genuemei.
of the firll characters for learning, integrity aud a' .y.
We wiih your Honours the divine presence in jII your circuits,
and that you may be guarded by a got>d providence.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, Foreman.
May 4, 1790.
f{3~ The Supreme Court of the United States for the Eaflcrn Circuit,
u'JJ held in the DiJlricl of New-York, on the \th—oJ Conne licut on the
tiidays of April— 0/ M.ijjachujetts on the 4M, and 0/ Nesu Hamfjhut
en the 20//1 dap 0/ May laji.
THE TABLET. No. CXXIII.
'< The belt institutions may appear imperfect,
-while the people are so, among whom they are
established."
, (Continuation and conclujion of the arguments infupport of the petition,
that the universal dijfujion of literature nujt precede and-prepare the way
Jor the universal prevalence of religion.)
THERE may b« *n objeflion brought agaioft tfie princi
ples of thii difcuflion. It may be suggested, and lam
-willing to concede to the truth of it, tbatin nauoni arrived to the
greatest degree of refinrn»ent in learning, every fpeciti of vict
and immorality his been carried to the grnteft degree of exceft.
To obviate this objrQion it must be confidcred, that these vices
proceed from eauici lotaUy alien from litenry improvements.
The corruption of learning,«f manner sand religion, are a neceflary
stage in the progress of nations, and inseparable from humanity.
Xiterary improvements flourifh moll in the period immediately
subsequent to the civilization of a kingdom, and their declension
always precedesitsdeftruQioor These stages are elTential to every
thing capable of progreflion. In the vegetable world we fee
plants spring from the earth, grow to muturity, and decay. Our
bodiesexhibit the tendernefa of infancy, the vigor of manhood
then the feeblenefs and deformity of age. Our intelleaual facul
ties pass through stages precisely corresponding to those of the bo
dy ; and we may as well impute the decays of old age to the en
largement of our intellectual jwweis, as to ascribe national decays
of religion to improvements in literature. These stages are in a
peculiar manner incident to nations. And as the growth of the
body must, in some measure, precede the improvement of the
mind ; so the introduftionof literature into a nation must, in fame
measure, precede the reception of religion. Then both flourifh
in their purity and are corrupted together. Literature, like the
body, ceafesto exist; religion like the intelleaual faculties is ex
tended to immortality. The obie&ion therefore amounts to no
more than this : that it is impofiible to give a perse& religion to
imperfect cteatures; that is, one fjiflicient, without miraculous in
terposition, to restrain their vicious Inclinations j or to express it
in other words,that it isimpoflible to give perfe&ion to the mor
al character of a race of beings, who are imperfect in all other ref
pefls.
. When therefore we reflcft that religion is cultivated most in a
{late of mediDcritv, equally removed from opulence and indi
gence, every rational mind must be convinced not only of the fu
tility of the objection just mentioned, but that religion, as well as
civil liberty, flourifhes best in a land of knowledge.
This enumeration of historical fafls, and the Ibfervations we
have made, may be comprised in the following concise deduflions,
—That mankind in the savage state are incapable of entertaining
any just notions of an infinite invisible Deity, or of understanding
the fundamental principles of ciiriftianity; ihatof couife it is na
turally impofljble they ftfoold believe r «uklllefs pra£ttfe its pre
<epts ; that this difpenfatien was firft publirtiei and propagated'
among the most learned nations on earth, the Greeks and Romans;
thai wherever it has been preached among faipges, it has been
immediately buried in ignorance, or blended with idolatry ; that
wherever it has been established, it has been preceded by the in
troduction of literature or fuppotted and promoted by progres
sive civilization ; that at present it exists only in nations whrrfc
learning is more or lefsencouraged ; that a corruption of liteiature,
of mannersand of religion are elTcptial to humanity and infepara
bie companions. From these principles, which wefind establish
ed by the invariable experience of the whole human race, we con
clude with all poflible certainty, that so glorious an event as the
vniverjal prevalence of religion mvjl be preceded by the universal diffu
literature.
fion oj
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESEN TA I IVES,
MONDAY, MAY 17
JN the bill for extending the Judiciary laws to the state of N.
Carolina, a clause was infertcd by which the Diftritt Couit of
lite State of N. Hampfhiie was to have been held only at Ports-
Vnouth, instead of Portsmouth and Exeter alternately as in the ast
patted last session. was amended in the House by in
f< rting Exeter" : The Senate difagrced to this amendment—
2 conference was held, and the joint committee proposed that the
lio-Je lhbnld rccede from their disagreement. This was moved
:(i House accordingly—and the motion fupponed by Mr. Li
• {more, ;mi opposed by-Mr, Oilman and Mr. Foftcr.
Mr. Oilman called for the reading read!
committee on the M™™ al no doubt the fact, stated
Mr.Ltvermoreobferved thathehaon, hurtdrfd
in this report were true, and that IMBthat the ship
tons had been at K«*r;but I. nvcr llght
was Only built there . that ll.e i.awled by ropes over mud
without mails, or kad.ogof any f.ncc, |
, n d flats dowu to Portsmouth, ncvcr w3sor ci „ boa
w d will never go there »f£n. Th*&£ mhcr laccs th e
S»" 3 .»«"•»''" ,J "
The Maritime Court was always held there it ! P
the bell place for the Di drift Court, and I hope fa.d Mr. liver
more it will never be held any where elte. . , .
Mr. Oilman replied to Mr. Livermore : Hrobfcrved that there
was a majority of the representation rom . cv.- »
vor of adhering to the original arrangement. Helbougl tome
.raid (hould be paid to their opinion—that a jn j ;or ty ■ h
nature of that siate, it was to be perfumed, werealio .n favor ol
it. He further obfcrved that he had no doubt hi. Hon. WlMgue
was inftrufted to fay, what he did ; but he beg d kavto oblerve,
that the gentleman's information was falfc re
water in the navigation to E.vtcr so (ai 10 . r jat
mud creek, there was from Bto ,oeet water at h.gh .nd a
Ipring tides feet ; and it „ fact that veflcl. from 5 o tom tom
partly load there, and bring their cargocsto tliat place Ihe dil
puteisa meer scramble between two towns, and if Col.gr
hould agree to the alteration «Vr alterations wi.l be found ne
jelTary, when theExcife law fii.H be paffed-for m .he aeirtbor
oodofF.xeter more than three-fi-mth. of the will
b- co efted-and there are noplaces bef.de, in thev.c.n.ty, which
can accommodate Courts,but Exeter He w.lhed therefore that the
House would adhere to the original arrangement.
Mr. Thatcher hoped the House would not agree to the report ol
> ioint committer, but would intift on then amendment It
f emed to*be a party matter between the towns ot Portsmouth and
Exeter, and the former only has bren heard before tins house.
So ne gentlemen from Portsmouth have com. forward and prayed
Congress to grant them a particular privilege, to the injury ot
Ex- ter The feting of Courts in a place is efleemed bv the inhab
itants thereof, a confiderablc privilege ; but Exeter has not yet
been heard—He therefore hoped this House would not agret to
remove the Courts from Exeter to Portsmouth, till time enough
has elapsed for the gentlemen in Exeter to come forward arid itate
their reasons why the Courts should be continued as they now are.
And this undoubtedly would be done by next session of Congress.
N.» iniuftice can accrue to Port (mouth til I that time. There will
not be more than one or two sessions of the Court before C ngrefs
meets again. He could nociielp observing, that the Senate, in this
cj'.c, had not aaed with their ufua) {lability, but seem to have at-
I tempted to change the place of holding the Courts in Hampfhue
without due consideration. They have attended to the pi aver ot
the gentlemen from PoTtlmouth, and have not given the gentlemen
of Exeter an opportunity of lhewing why that prayer ought not to
he granted It is a fact that Portsmouth and Exeter are, in some
refpefts, rivals—and this House ought not to favor one to the injury
of the other. Portsmouth has many natural advantages for carrv
ing on frade and commerce, while Exeter labors under every in
c ivenu nce, and therefore Congress will do well to extend to her
everything that may promote and cncouia je her trade. ihe gen
tleman firlt up from N. Hampftme, ( Mr. l.iveimoi cf) 'ays, that he
has been informed there is not more than 3 or 4 lect of water
t> Exeter; but another gentleman, from tint State, ''Mr. Gil
mau,) who has lived many years in Exeter, and been engaged in
Commerce there, declares the 1 c is a depth ot water ol 8 or 10 feet
leading to that town. It is to b pre fumed the latter <*-ntlcin>n
is best acquainted with this fact, I therefore lh.ill take it tor grant
ed the depth of water greater than has been repref u:<d
by those who advocate rem >val ot the Court.
It has been said the nitUiooevs are refpe£table fherchants in
Portsmouth—He doubted not but maoy ot them were very refpcc
table merchants—but hexiad rc.it >n to believe tome of them were
not in the mercantile lino—lt '.s laid the mat itime courts were ne
ver he'd Exeter ; but during the war were established, by the Le
gifl.iture of that ftatc, at Portsmouth—the reason was because the
maritime courts were then erected folcly for the purpose of trying
captures—and at that time there was but little, or no commerce
carricd on at Exeter, which if he had been rightly informed, is
not the cafe now. It the law tor ettablifhing the courts be
infpc&ed, it will apocar, that in several in(lances,thev are appoint
ed to be held at phces where they were never held betore ; he be
lieved that was thf cafe in th<- diftrift of Maine—the courtis now
held twice a year for that didrift, at Wifcafiett, which begins to
be a flourifhing place, though but a few years ago there might be
no commerce there. This he took to be the cafe with Exeter.
It has been said the Gentlemen at Portsmouth are willing the
circuit court (hould be held alternately at Portsmouth and Exettr,
and he conceived there was the fame reason why the diftri& couit
(hould be held at Exeter also. He thought this reason would be
much stronger when the excise laws were contemplated as a source
ot judicial buGnefs.
He sard he had one observation to make on the method the Se
nate had taken to effe£l the removal of the court'from Exeter. A
clause is tucked in at the very close of a bill for eflablifhing the
judicial courts in the state of North Carolina—lt is of great impor
tance to have the courts eftablifhcd, as soon as pofTiblr, in thit
State, and withou doubt the Senate presumed the House, under
this impreflion, would consent to the clause refpefting Exeter, ra
ther than retard the pafling of the more essential parts of the law.
But he hoped the House would perfitl in their original amendment,
and if at the net feflion it thould appear necellary to remove the
court from Exeter to Portsmouth, it will then be time enough to
do it, and a law may pass for that purpose.
Mr. Sedgwick said that some obfervationshad been thrown out
against the Senate, which he did not conceive their conduct me
rited ; and from the known canddr of the gentlemen who had
used them, he did not doubt that on mature retlcftmn they would
confidcrthcm in the fame light that JTe did. The fubjett now be
fore the House has been canvallcd by acomnfittee from both Houf.
es ; every member of wh£ch except one, was in favour of the re
port which had been ma<)e —they arc gentlemen of undoubted in
tegrity—they had the fulK.lt opportunity of investigating the fub
jeft, a much better opportunity than (tie House can poflibly have—
and if the reports of such committees are not to be a rule to the
House, their utility is deltroyed. He had foimerlv been in favor
of the court's being held at Exeter, as a majority of the members
j from that State had represented it as eligible , but fincc t has be
come a fubjeft ofdilpute, and the matter has been carried to such
lengths, and the result has been the repoitnow read, he was in fa
vour of receding.
Mr. Foster observed that the Gentleman from MafTachufctts was
mistaken, as there were two members of that committee against it
—he added some observations which we did not hear.
The queflion for receding being put, was loft—and the house
v oted to adhere to their amendment.
MONDAY, JUNE 14, 1790.
The Committee to whom was re committed the
bill for the relief of Nathaniel Twining, report
ed an amendment to said bill, which was, to flrike
out the firft clause. The bill as it nowitands,
provides only for a remiflioi} of the penalties in
curred by said Twining for failures in his con
tra<sl for transporting the mail The amend
490
ment re ported was agreed to, and the bill ordered
to be engrofled for a third reading.
In Committee of the whole oh the bill for re
pealing, after the lalt day of the duties
heretofore laid on spirits of foreign manufacture,
and laying others in their (lead.
Mr. Seney in the Chair.
The Committee proceeded in the difcullioii of
the bill, andfinifliedit.—They then rose, and the
Chairman reported the fame to the Houl'e, ■with
sundry amendments.
Mr. Sedgwick madefoine objections to entering
into a consideration of the amendments proposed
to this bill.—He vvifhed that the question of as
sumption iliould be firlt decided upon.
Mr. Sherman was in favor of fiuilhing die bill
at this time—He wilhed and expected that the
aflumption would be taken up,'before the dole of
thefellion —andfaid, it may be made the fubjed
of a separate bill.
Mr. Bloodworth offered several objections to the
bill. .„. .
Mr. Madison was in favor of fimfluug it.
Mr. Kitzfuuons observed, that the gentlemen
who are for delaying the pafljge of this bill, do
not explicitly object td the mode pointed out fur
1 ailing the additional revenue—They donotfay,
that if this plan is rejetfied, they will agree to sub.
ftituting other objects of revenue—so that those
who are in favor of providing the Ways and Means
to carvy into e(Fe<ft the funding system, are em
barralfed how to proceed.—lf the gentlemen vill
be explicit—and declare that if the proposed du
ties are not taken by the general government,
they will point out, and agree toothers, we (hall
know wliatto do—but at present, it is utterly im
poflible to determine, from their mode of proce
dure, what their objecft is.
Mr. Sedgwick replied to Mr.Fitzfimons. He said
for his own part, he had always aimed to be open
and explicit on this fubjedt— and that he was now
ready to declare, that on the principle of not af
funiing the State Debts, the duties contemplated
by the bill would be impolitic and unjnll—tliey
will operate in a molt inauspicious manner, both
with refpetft to the creditors of the States, the tran
quility of the State Governments, and the peace
and honor of the peneral government —This liad
been he said the invariable tenor of his obierva
tionson this fubjetfl, from the firft to thelaft.
Mr. Si one read a statement which he h?d pre
pared, containing several duties on Imports and
Tonnage, in addition to those already laid—and
some new ones—which he supposed might befub
ftitnted, in lieu of the Excise proposed in the bill,
to which he was oppofied.
Mr. (Jerry was oppoftd to proceeding in the
consideration of the bill—He wilhed it
for a few days, till the House could poflefsthem.
fclves of the opinion of the Senate—whom, he had
been informed, now had the fubje<ftof aflumption
under consideration.
Mr. Fitzfimons replied to Mr. Gerry. He tho t
it a very extraordinary propofit ion, tnat the house
(hould wait for the determination of the Senate
upon any fubjet r t, more especially a question of
this kind—besides he very much doubted the l ight
of the Senate to originate any thing on the busi
ness ofthe aflumption—but we arc not to decide
hastily, said he,becaufe a majority may determine
differently froni what some gentlemen appear t»
wiih should take place !
I would ask, said he, how this legislature is ever
to go on with the important business before tlieni,
except they are to abide by the decilion ot the
majority. Some gentlemen appear to be opposed
to the principle ofthe bill—others are oppoie't
to all duties except the State debts are aliened.
Let us reflect 011 our situation, provided no pa
vilion is to be made for the doineftic debt ot the
United States. He hoped the consideration 0
the bill would be delayed no longer.
Mr. Gerry replied to Mr. Fitzfimons ; he con
tended that the Senate had a right to originate
the business of the aflumption, and that it hat
been customary for that house to wait for theue-
of the Senate, when they had been inform
ed that they were on a fubjeel which the hou e
had contemplated taking up; he declared t iat
no man realized more than he did, the nnpor
tanceof funding the public debts—but then e
wilhed the system to be commensurate to the 0
jed:—to be impartial, liberal, and just.
On the question to take up the report 0 t
Committee, Mr. Vining moved for the Ayes an
Noes, which being called, areas follow:
AYES.
Meflrs A (he, Bald win, Brown,
Contee, Fitzfimons, Floyd, Foster, Galft, Giln» a >
Griffin, Hartley, Heifter, Jackson, Livermore,
Madison, Matthews, Moore, Sehureman, s>en J r
Sherman, Sinnickfon, Smith (M.).St°n e >
er, Vinin<;, White, Wynkoop, Williamfon.—3
NOES.
Meflrs Ames, Bloodworth, Boudinot, B" 1 ' e >
Coles, Gerry, Goodhue, Grout, Huger, Lawranc >
Leonard, Page, Partridge, Parker, Sedgwic »
RanfeSlaer, Sylvelter, Smith (S. C.) Steele,
ges, Thatcher, TrnnAull, Tucker, WaJfwo
2 4.The House then took up the amendments pro
pofed-and agreed to the fame-Other amend-
which imposes a duty on stills was
obiefted to by several gentlemen, and after some
on thefubjedt, it was agreed that the
Bill should lie on the table.
Mr Fitzlimons laid the following refolutionon
the table, viz. " Resolved, that from and after
« the last day of next, the dunes hereto
" fore laid on Teas and Coffee, shall cease, and
" that the following be laid in their stead, viz.
" On Bohca Tea, 12 Cents pr. lb.
<1 Souchong and other Black 1 eas, 20 Cents,
« Hyson Tea, 40 Cents,
« Other Green leas, 24Cents,
" C offee, 5 Cents."
In committee of the whole on the Bill for ef
tablilhing the Post Office and Poll Roads.
Mr. Boudinot in the Chair.
The committee made lome progress in the dif
cuflion of this bill—but not having time to finilh
it, asked leave to fit again
A meflage was received from the Senate, miot m
ing the House that they have palftd the act for
extending the Judicial Law of the United States
u.t he State ol Rhode Island, with one amendment,
-which was to reduce the firiary of the Diltrift
Judge from one thousand, to eight hundred dol
lars. This amendment was agreed to.
A meflage was received from the President, in
forming that he had approved and signed an Act
for extending sundry acTis therein mentioned, to
the State of Rhode Island—an a£l for the relief of
Thomas Jenkins and company—and also a rel'o
lution so. annexing to the code of laws, the sever
al treaties now mack, and that may be made be
tween the United States and foreigu nations.
TUKSDAY, JUNE 15-
The bill for the relief of Nathaniel Twining,
having been engrofled was read the third time
and palled.
In committee of the whole on the bill to elta
blHh the poll office and post roads in the United
States. Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The fedtion which prohibits paflengers from
carrying letters, under a penalty of three times
the postage, was objerted to, as impracticable in
itfelf—it was moved that it should be expunged.
Mr. Livermore, who was one of the committee,
observed that this feftion was introduced to pre
vent the diminution of the revenue from the poft
office—the mail is now carried in llage coaches,
in which there arc generally jeveral paflengers,
fometimesas many as fix, and it is supposed that
many more letters go by the paflengers, than by
the mail ; it is to be supposed that moll persons
would wifti to be excused from the trouble of car
rying theCe fetters, and if tkis lection passes, they
will be furnifhed with an excuse for not taking
tliem ; and it appears very unreasonable and ab
surd that the public should pay the proprietors of
/he stages for transporting the mail, and in this
way be^defrauded out of that revenue which they
are undoubtedly ejititled to receive.
Mr. White and Mr. Gerry were in favour of
flrikingout the clause. Mr. Sedgwick and Mr.
Sherman in favor of it as in the bill.
The motion for striking out was negatived.
The committee proceeded as far as the 21ft
fe&ion and then rose.
Mr. Lawrance of the committee appointed for
the purpose brought in a bill authorising and
empowering the 1 reiident of the United States,
to pmchafc such a part of the tract of land at
Weft-Point, as the public service may render ne
ceflary—read the firit time. Adjourned.
ARTILLERY ELECTION.
Monday last, beingthe anniversary elecfiion of
Officers of the ANCIENT AND HONOURA
BLE ARTILLERY of this commonwealth—the
Corps paraded at 10 o'clock, in the Old South
Mating-Houfe—At 12 o'clock, it marched to the
Council-Chamber, from whence it escorted His
Honor HhsLt. Governor ( His Excellency the Go
vernor being indisposed) the Hon Council, and
several military characters, to([lie Old Brick. Meet-
; where an elegant and peculiarly well
adapted Sermon was delivered by the Rev. Mr.
Ho m Eli, of Newtown. After the religious cere
monies of the day were over, the following pro
cession was formed, viz.
jut. Gov. Adams—Hon. Mr. Bowdoin.
Hon. Council, and Senators.
Speaker, and Members of the House.
President of the Univerfny.
Clergy.
Amongst whom were Abbe Rousselet and Mr
Thmer.
Consuls ofFrance, Holland and Sweden
Seledmen ofßofton, Gentlemen, and ftrangersof
' diftintftion.
Adjutant-General—Officers of Cadets, Castle-
William, Artillery and Fusiliers, in uniform.
Honorary Members, &c.
Whijli wasefcorted by the Company to Faneu
il Hall ; where a funiptuous dinner was provided
After which the following toasts were drank :
i. 'thePRSSTtrNT of the United States (three
BOSTON June 9
cheers) —2. The Vice-President, andCongrefsof
America. 3. The Governor, and Commonwealth
of Maflachufetts. 4. The Powers ps Europe, in
Alliance with the United Stales. S- Agriculture
Manufactures, Fisheries and Commerce. j_^' s
Honor the Lieutenant Governor then gave the
following toast—Prosperity to the Ancient and Ho
norable Artillery Company.] 6. The King'of France
(clapping of hands) 7. The Marquis de la Payette.
8. The National Afl'embly of France^—may
they rightly diftinguifli between the evils of li
centioufnels, and the bleifings of good govern
ment. 9. Chief Jullice Jay. 10. Gen. Knox. ii.
Mr. Hamilton. 12. Mr. Jbf>erson. 13. May
the inhabitants of Ameriea exercise the fame wis
dom in preserving as they have in eredting the
FEDERAL DOME.
The Hall was beautifully decorated. The en
trance formed an Arch, supporting the Orchejlra
wherethe Band performed during the entertain
ment —The front exhibited Plenty with her cor
nucopia—under which were I? circles iuclifing
as many stars ; and on each fide were displayed
the ftaridards of the Company, and of the Artille
ry. They key ftoneof the ArCh bore this inscrip
tion—" Incorporated 1638." The back part was
ornamented with the whole deco
raced with evergreen and flowers. From three
parts of the wall, in quadrangular directions,
[ liung wreaths of flowers of every tint, with clus
ters hanging from thecentre of each. The upp»r
wreath lupported thirteen pendant circles of
evergreen and flowers, in the centre of each of
which was a ltar. At the head of the Hall was
one grand Arch, from the key-ltone ot which
hung a golden fieur de lis In the rear ot this, in
the front window, was placed an obelisk [finely
executed by Johnson]- —thebafe was formed by a
Bust of the PRESIDENT of the United States,
encircled with a glory—the inscription, " The
luflre of his aflions Jhirlcs with triumphant bright ness,
and spreads a glory round hint Over this, at the
top of the obelisk, was the all pervading Ey£ dit
fufing its emanations on our Kabius, with an in
scription, " Fidites Protego," over it. In the cen
tre a winged Cherub crowning the PRESIDEN I
with a chaplet of Laurel, encircling the words,
" Premium Virtutis"—and a garter extending on
eacfilide the Cherub, bearing the motto, "Sicitur
ad sljira." T w <>' a, 'K e American colours were dis
played on each fide the obelisk, with good effect.
I he elegance and neatness of thejdecorations did
much credit to the gentlemen who executed them;
and received the tribute ot approbation from the
houfands who visited the Hall to fee them.
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
PUBLISHED
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THE SECOND SESSION.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fourth
of January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
RESOI VED by the Senate and Hoije of Refrefentatives of the U~
mtcd States ojAmerica inCongrefsaJJembled,That allTreanes made*
or which (hall be made, and promuiged under the' authority of the
United Slates, (hall, from time to time, be publiftied, and annex
ed to their Code of Laws by the Secretary of St ate.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prefidat oj the United States.
avd Trefident of the Senate.
Approved, June the fourteenth, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefidentof the United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Seen tary of State
AN ACT for the relief of THOMAS JENKINS
and Company.
BE it enaßedby the Senate and Hoilf: oj Representatives of the United
States of America in Congref, the duties amounting
to one hundred and sixty seven dollan and fifty cenu.be remitted,on
a parcel of hemp, duck, ticklenburgh and molasses, the property of
Thomas Jenkins and Company^merchants of the city of Hud
son in the State of New-York, which were loft by fire in the brig
Minerva, on her passage from New-York to the city of Hudson,
her pott of delivery : And the Secretary of the Treasury of the
United States is hereby authorized and dire&ed to allow a credit
011 the Bond or Bonds executed by the said Thomas Jsnkins
and Company, for payment of the duties on the said goods.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, I'ice-Prefident of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
1 Aitroveo, Juni the fourteenth, 1790
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Ptejident of the United States,
(Tkue corY.)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
PROVIDENCE, June J.
On Tuesday the inhabitants of this town very
generally and cordially united in celebrating the
adoption of the Conilitution, which has comple
ted the Thirteenth Arch of the " rais'd Empire,''
uniting all the States under a free and efficient go-
491
-vemmcnt, after a liberal and intelligent mveft.l
gation.
At sunrise the united company of the train of
artillery > commanded by Col. rillinghatl, ap
peared in uniform, and discharged 1 hineen Can
non. A similar difcliarge was repeated at noon
—after which the company, with a number of
other Gentlemen, repaired to the Colonel s house,
where a handsome entertainment had been pre
pared for them. After dinner the following
toasts were drank, viz.
i. The President of the United States.—2.
The Senate and Representatives ot the United
States —3. The Governor and Company. —-4-
Theßhode-lfland Convention, thai completed the
Union of America.— May flie Union lalt till
Years lhall cease to r011.—6. Peace at Home, and
Reputation abroad.— 7. May the Groans of the
diltred'ed be no more heard.—B. May America
forever honor the Men who have led her to hei
present happy situation.— 9. Agriculture, Manu
factures and Commerce. —10. The encouragers
of ufeful Arts.—ll. The abolition of Party .—l2
May the good of the whole be the grand object.
13. May private virtue be the road to public
honor
At three o'clock a discharge of thirteeu Cati
non was repeajfd. A Proceflion of respectable
citizens, like a Band of Brothers, then marched
with great older and regularity, through the
streets, accompanied by martial Mnlic, and dil
playing the banners of Union, freedom and inde
pendence. In the evening the Ship Warren va*
molt ingenioudy illuminated, and made a very
splendid appearance ; and a variety of handsome
fire-works, prepared by the company of Artillery,
closed the public exhibitions on this truly me
morable occasion.
The next evening a Ball Was given to the fair
Daughters of freedom.
APPOINTMENTS.- By Authority
It the Stat! of South-Cat olina.
Thomas Be e, Judge of South Carolina Diltrift, in the p'.acc of
William. Drayton, deceased.
In the Stale oj RhMe-Ijlani and Providence Plantations.
Wuliam Ei.i.ery, Collector, }
Robert Crooke, Naval-Officer, >• of Newport.
Daniel Lyman, Surveyor, )
JfREMIAH Olnev, Colle&nr, 1
Theodore Foster, Naval-Olficer, of Providence.
| William Barton, Surveyor, )
The Senate of the United States on Monday
last, poftptoned the consideration of the Resolu
tion of the House of Representatives, for hold-
ing the next session of Congress at Baltimore, to
that day fortnight.
Monday the Artillery oftliis City commanded
by Col. Bauman was reviewed according to Law.
T he regiment made a fine appearance, and re
ceived the full approbation of numerous spec-
tators. —
A melancholy accident happened last Sunday-
Evening—a promising boy of 9 years of" age, ne'
phew of Sir John Temple, fell overboard from a
bloop in the North River, and was drowned—
his body was found the next day.—
Thelateft intelligence from Europe is that an
Alliance is formed ,between the Turks and the
Pruflians—the treaty is also said to be signed by
the English Polish and Swedilh Ambafladors
at Constantinople That the King of Pruifia
in consequence of this is making great prepara
tions for war—That «he determination of the
Divan to continue the war was received withap
plaufe by the people—The campaign between
Sweden and Rulfia is opened by an attack 011 a RuU
fian Fortress which was taken—That affairs in the
low Countries present a most alarming picture,
jealousy, treachery and ambition having destroy
ed the confidence of the people in their leaders,
and interrupted that Union on which the hopes of
freedom are suspended—That Gen. Vaftder
Merfch has been arrelted—The following-is a
copy of a letter from him addrefled to the States,
My Lords,
" 1 am cotne here in pursuance of your com
" mands : Crimes of the blacked: kind are impu
" ted to me—lf I am guilty let my head fall—
" If I am innocent, as my conscience teftifies, I
" ought to be exculpated—Death or reparation
" of my honor is then what I demand."—
Some accounts from France fay that the Clergy
are l'o diflatisfied with being stripped of their reve
nues, that they jireachup the most seditious doc
trines against the National Aflembly, but in the
most artful and covert manner, tho calculated to
inflame the minds of the populace—
The National Aflembly have immortalized
their proceedings by eftabliihing the tri,al by
jury—and by solemnly declaring that con
quest and extending the limits of the Kingdom
shall disgrace their public Councils no more.—
'AXES,
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Ship Olive Blanch, Barnwell, Dublin, 45 days.
Brig Peru, Baddock, Port-au-Prince, 24.
Mary, Findlatter, Martha Bray, 36 days.
Sloop Sally, Carey, Philadelphia, 9 days.
Ann, Leyburn, Grenada, 19 days.
Grace, Whiting, Cape Francois, 17 days.
Schooner Hannah, Yatts, St, Auftatia, 28 days
NEW-YORK, JUNE 16, 179°LpKDON", April 10.
' PHE rnncedeCont; having returned to Paris
-I will induce several others of the French
fugitive Princes to follow his example. Theab
fence of many of the French Nobility from their
own country, is one cause of the great scarcity of
ready money.
In the ]alt letter from the King of Prnffia to the
Bishop of Liege, his Majesty fays, that if the Prince
does not accede to his propofuions, heMhall with
draw his forces from Liege, which he is well af
iured will produce a civil war.
1 he new King of Hungary brings with him to
Germany, what was much wanted in the lad
months of his brother's reign,.a great supply of
money. I c is said that his Majesty, whiKt Grand
Duke ofTufcany, was able to lav byannuallyfo
contiderable a sum of money, that he found bim
lelf, on the day of his brother's death, pofleUed of
a capital of eighty millions of florins.
I he states of flanders and Hatmati, have both
declared themselves strongly in favor of returning
to the allegiance of the new King of Hungary, on
the terms proposed by his Majesty. Every pru
oent citizen would w:fli to do the iame, for it is
inipoiliblenow to miltake the motives and actions
o' the clergy of Brabant, whole foleview is to ag
grandize themselves at the facrifice ofthe country
at large. J
Very few of the fugitive Noblefle of France,
i endent in this country, can procure remittances
trom home, and the lituations offeveral are in
consequence diftrefsful in the extreme ! The
Duke ofLuxembourg is to be reckoned among the
unfortunate, as though he was left without a re
source, he has found|a friend from whom he ex
periences an ample lupport. He had conciliated
the friendfhip of the Duke of Marlborough by
hispolitenefs/hewn to the latter when in Paris,
and his Grace has, in return, given him permissi
on to draw on his Banker without reftrit r tion.
This instance of munificence does honour to the
country.
Among the foremoit ofthe lafe Emperor's good
qualities, was that of attending to applications
w hen from the meanest of his fubje<fts ; and it is
to the honor of his memory that in no instance
•where rcdrefs of grievance was demanded in juf
t*ce or equity, it was ever refufed. His firft'bu
finefs every day was to read over and investigate
ail petitions and memorials, and to give orders
accordingly.
By recent accounts from China, we l#arn that
every part of that vast empire is defaced and
torn by civil diflenfions, which rage with the molt
ungovernable fury ; the fame accounts also des
cribe, in the moll pathetic terms a mortality oc
casioned by famine through inoftof the province;
particularly in that of Canton, where the mise
ries of the people are indescribable.
Such were the calamities occasioned by famine
in the province ot Canton, that contrary to the
jealous fpiric of the people, the Engliih then at
that port were invited into the town, and per
mitted to explore the adjacent country, that they
might behold, and report to the British I'ettle
ments, the diltreiles which reigned there ; but
unfortunately for their own preservation, the
settlements were compelled to deny them that
relief which at any other time humanity would
afford and dictate.
T.ie inhabitants the river, who are
prodigioully numerous, felr much less the eff«<fts
or this famine, than tliofe in the country, the
.ormsr having a supply of fifli, of which necefli
ty obliged them to refufe the participation with
their unhappy countrymen.
So sacred is the liberty of the Press confulered
by the French National Aifembly, that they will
overlook even libels upon themselves and their
j*oeeedings, rather than attempt to check the
freedom of wriring and of priming.
Declaration of the Sovereign Congress of the United
Provinces of Flanders.
Dated Br.ujfili, April 7.
The said Congress being informedthat a report
is (pread abroad, that regulations are about to
take place with foreign powers, contrary to the
rights and liberties of the Republic and United
Provinces, positively declare that no engagement
whatsoever has been entered into with any fo
reign power, neither do they mean to enter into
nny which can in theTeaft afFeOl the liberty, in
dependence, or commerce of the Republic in ge
neral, nor any particular province! The Con
gress exhort, therefore, every individual, to be
cautious of giving credit to every insinuation of
the kind, which can proceed only from evil-mind
ed people, with a view to check the ardour of
patnotifm among the people—to foment divifi
011s, and to check the confidence of the nation
placed in their representatives.
Given in Congress, April 6th, 1790.
(Signed) Baron de Havetikerke, Pref.
H. C. N. Vandernoot,
P. S. Vaneupen, Sec.
Doctor Blair, of Edinburgh, hasreceived eight
hundred pounds for the copy of a third volume
r.T Jermons.
Jpril |6.
PHILADELPHIA, June 10.
As the derivation of the term Merry A/idrtwis
not generally known, it may not be amiss tp men
tion, that it arose from one Andrew Borde, a droll
physician, who used to attend market towns, and
liarrangue the populace in a facetious manner.
He was in great repute, and much followed in the
year 1574.
BURLINGTON, June j.
A correspondent begs leave to suggest to the
farmers of New Jerl'ey, the great advantages
that would flow from (hearing their early lambs.
The custom is generally adopted in England,
and furnifhes a valuable materiaHn the impor
tant manufacture of woolen hats. The ui'ual
time for (hearing lambs is about five or fix weeks
after that of llieep /hearing ; this will allow
fufficient time for the fleeces of the lambi to
grow before winter ; and instead of injuring,
rather promotes the grovfth of the wool. Many
judicious farmers in this country have tried the
experiment with fuccels, and found the averaged
quantity ot wool obtained by these means, to be
a pound and a quarter from each lamb.
BOSTON, JUNK y.
Mr. Si'eliexd, for many years Quarter-Mas.
ter in the i6th,or (Queen's) Regiment of Ligln-
Dragoong, known by the nameofßurgoyne's,and
who wn captured with that General and Lord
Cornwallis, in this country, has lately arrived in
this town, from Gibraltar ; and is an instance of
the good effects that the exercise of walking has
upon the health. This gentleman is considered
as one of thefirft walkers in Europe—he has late
ly walked through every county in England and
Ireland, through France, Italy, Spain, Portugal,
and a great part of the Barbary Hates, particu
larly from Tangiers to Meqinez and Fez, in
Motocco, and through the Arab's country he
has also walked above 790 miles since his arrival
in America—What most remarkable is, that se
vere snow storms never deter him from fettiii"
upon a journey on foot, from which he seldom
ieels the inialleft inconvenience.
SrOCKISRIDGE, June 8.
"\\ e areon-f" was the motto adopted hyou;
countrymen when they firft leagued together to
1 • f", ofthe proud opprellors of man
kind. this brightfentiinent animated them to
tread the path they had laid out, with firmnefs ;
the genius ofliberty ftniled on their endeavours to
reach the expedied blils.and with open arms Hood
ready to embrace those whole profefled prin
ciples reflected honor upon her cause By Uni
on we conquered, and by Union alone can the
glory of the American empire be established.—
Jealousy, however small at present her power and
influence, fcems engaged to promote diflruft in
the minds of foine, a.id ftiniulates them to fiK'treft
3 ! ,?j neral ? nd st a te Governments are actu
ated by different interests. How wrong the f ojr .
geftion. Arc not the state governments necella
ry and important links of the general govern
ment: And wall not the dilution offheone
involve its issue the dilution of the other ?
How absurd then the fnppofition that there is
danger of the general government's aflumin- all
power, and (wallowing up the prerogatives "and
privileges of the state governments. But it is
feared, or pretended to be feared by some, that
ST TUTIONAI gOVCn,n ' ent eXe ' cife their CON
i>i II U I ONAL powers to promote the ceneral
rerns !o \h7befti im P orta,lt "clonal con
cerns to the best advantage, if they provide for
the exigences of the country and the support of
he government in the way least burthen fbme to
facred°ues'or"!' , thcy are boqn<l the most
complin!t—iV rhp' 6 ' T' toac
r ' , general government do this
some pretend to fear that the freedom, foverX
ty, and independence of the several states will be
America is a free, sovereign, and independenr
nation But a, e the feveFal ft.t« free Sin
i P H ff Cnt °n thC ational Government "A e
the different states which compose the Union free
and independent nations ' If f„ ,
thehead! The word,r
-en,. When J" J ' I??'"
idea /1,,11 predominate, thanhe fti,Jr''
things. Should .he Sale, rAfi U ' t I, T» bc ""
the whispers of an unreafomM 1 ro
jealousy, and concur in aiding &
vemment to promote and establish rW °"
national plans on which the hanptefs of th? 6 " 1
pie, and the welfare of the count-v ) , pe °-
may then with fafety predidl that t ? pends ' we
America will r , Jv / t J £ ™• '£»| <*« glor, of
PIRE WITH THE SKITS. ' S .*"
492
A MOTHER'* ADDRESS TO HER DYING IXFAXr
r 'ENbER/foftch' Infant mild !
X Pcrfcfl,.fwcct f ft t lovclirft Cliild !
TrauficntJuftse I beauteous Clay !
Smiling wonder Of a .day ;
'Er?the.J«ft qopyulfuff
Renda ihy unreMUng, heart,,
't'rc the long enduring fwooit
Weight thy. precioui oyc-hds down :
Alt 1 igga<4 a MoiUr'i mow,
(harper (hin ihy pwy ;
Faireli l#c, whofc dawning
Latr, With rapture fill'thrjiyfight,
'Ere (hy orbs«xt«iguilh'd be,
Bend their trembling bcanitoa me.
Drooping SwcptneU ! ierdant flo^ T(
Blooming, withering in an hour !
'Ere thy gentle breviftfuftaim
Lotcli, firrcdt, mortal pains;
Here a fuppliaot, let me be
Partner iu thy . z.
PRICE CURRENT.
3UN.
"1 Spiriu, 5/3. 5/
J Antigua Rum, 4J9. 4 4/.
Si. Cfoijt, do. 4/6.
Coua»ry, d«>. 3/.
MoJaffei, 5/3. ,
Brandy, .
Geneva, ' 4 y;
Do. in c»fe», 26/.
Muscovado Sugar, 83f. a 75\f.
Loaf, do. 1/4.
Lump, do. i/aj. -
Pepper, a/ 7 2/9.
Pimento, W4.
Coffee, i/g. 1/4.
Indijo, (Carolina) 3/. a (if.
Do. French, 18/. 10f
Rice, 231. a</
Superfine Flour, 64 f.
Common do. 58f.
Rye do. 30/ < ( 8f
I Indian Meal, 18f. 20/.
1 Ry c . 5/ f>r. bujk.
Wheal, j if j 10J6.
Corn, (Southern) 4/?
Do. (Northern,)
Beef, firft quality, 48f. liof.
Pork, firil nujlitv, gof.
Oats, 2yv.
Mix-feed, cj.
S!np4ne.id pi r cv.-t. 21/24/?
Country refined ) „.
bar-iron, J * Hl " 3°'-
Do. bloomery, 23!. a »61.
Swedes do. 4^l.
RulJia do. 301.
Pig-iron. 8; 10/ ,19!.
German steel, g./.per
Nails American, by calk. ) nd.
per. Ih. 4 d. j
Do. do. do. 6ii. 1 >J.
Do. do. -do. Bd. gjrf.
Do. do. do. iod.}
Do. do. do- ied.r , . .
Do. Ho. do. acd.r <i' a B i J -
Do. Jo. <10, «4d.^
ash, per ton, 3.)!. a 401.
Pe<n I a'h, 481 a jol.
per lb. if.
Mackairl per Inrr. 26f. a x>f-
Herrinr,, ,8/ lfi y
Mahogany Jamaica, ) ,
per foot, I ioJ -
Dominico, do. q/i.
Honduras, do.
Logwood unc!iippcd,pr.ton. 81.
Wo. chipped. 141.
2 inch white p
piank, per in. vlO • tO J"
' inch do. s |.
a inch white pine p!ar.i, 81.
'J inch do. 61.i0/:
Jjnchdo. 31. 10/
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
Do. 2 a inch do. ,1. Bf.
Cedar 2 inch do. il. lo f
1$ inch do. 61. icA
< inch do. 4].
Pitch pi ne fcantfinr, ,] gr
Cyprus 2 feet lhin K les, ii. 10/
3n dwelling house, in every circumstance
plea fain njrt nfTi k"i % 3 lar?C farai, V. situated in a veiy
tains ahiMw f Eluab « th Tow., New-Jcrfey. The lot con.
variety of °" 1 18 * VCry S ood and a
so cafv i C i n,lttrccs ' rhe terms of payment can be made
12 Wall 1 PUrchafcr * Enquire Subfrriber at No.
, 79 e 0. UIAS BOUDLVoV
James F. Sebor, and Co.
"v' rCm ° Vcd from No- 59 , to No. .8;, W.tcr-Suect, nrarlhe
WHFRIT »1 '■Jy-Mirket,
Sectr'"•Cgociate all kinds of PUBLICK
A-« aI ?7 RILLSOF EXCHANGE. &c. asufual.
_ _ x '~' ° r *• *pr'/ 8, 1790. . t f_
THE 1 ' 'L"' 1 P o Jf e fi m gi"'n immediately,
turf«». kV, 7 J F,om Sl,cct - — A P art ° f ' hf Fi'RM
the Tenant if ' ■' f a°" rca,onal) le terms, to accomrawistc
Tenant, ,f requtred. Apply on the prem.fc..
June i2 t 1790. r
Tiie Mail diligence,
T Favfc u T- fOR Pti IL4DELPHJ,I,
JL y ' Sta '"' atNew " York . r <" minutes after
? Ck rver y """"irig except Sundjy.
JhoaJ-Way, Ncu-York 7un e c. ,~x,o ■ £
Wfnh, J Imrncd.ately, a Man „an Ostler, or.e that is
couL-m.n 0l ! """"mended, will meet with tn-
Subrcfibcr ' an y Cm P lovmcnt - by .-pplving to the
N R Mrtn v r . ARCII>.R (iJKFORD, .
need jnalv ut a sober person, and on? well recommended
" •' Newark, Mav 9.g, *79 Q>
ASH and a generous price given for Conti
fcciirllT r Ncw-Hompfhire, MaffachufeLia, and Rhode-Ifljud
Kcuriticj, of every denomination, bv
„ ew Yn.I B A NE , ZER THAYER . >■ No. 59 , lUicr-StHtt.
April 1?) , 7go .
New-Yi
. XZW-YORK.
>6- Dollars at (fc.
Do. 2a inch do. il. 4/
Do. 18. inch do. \%f
Butt white oak Itavci, ~f
Pipe do. do. gl.
Hoglbead do. do. 61.
Do. do. heading, 81. J
Irilh barrel do. llavn, «).r
red oak do. .j
Do. French do. j|.
Hogshead hoops,
Whitcoak square timber )
per fijuare foot, J
Rod wood, per ton, 181.
Kultick, 101.
Brjver, per Jb. it\J. , ,CJ.
Ott. r per (kin, 9/. '
Greyfox, 4/7.
Martin, 4 /i. .
I Racoon, 3J6 a ~J6~.
Mulkrat, icd. a
Bi aver hats, 6a J.
Caftordo. qtlj.
Chocolate, :
Cocoa, yf. a Bos
Cotton, ij'S.
Tar, pr. bar. 11J. ,
Pilch, nj.
Turpentine, 21/. <120/
Tobacco, James River, arf.ajU
Do. \ork, qj. a 'jij.
Do. Rippalianock, 2a a 3ji
D'i. Maryland, coloured, yi.
Do. Weftern-lhore, id a z'i.
I.ead in pigs, pr cwt. 6cj.
Do. bars, C%[.
Do. Shot, tSf.
Rrd lead, 68/T
White do. dry,
White do. in oil, 12C
Salt-pctre hams,
Spermaceti candles, ?£
Mould do. nd. a iJT
Tallow dipt, <jW.
Soap, a. a %/.
Caftiic fojp, gd. c icji.
Englidi cheese, pr. lb.
Country do. ji. 6J.
Butter, BJ.
Hyson tea, as
Sequin do. 6/ti. 4
llohea do.' 2
I Ginlenji, if. a ?f6.
Starch Poland, yj.
Snuff, 2/3.
Allum fak, water mea- ) cr
sura, pr. bu(h. J ''
Liverpool do. 2j.
Madeira wine, ) , , ,
pr. pipe, I
Port, 46/.
LiPoon, pr. gal. \f
Tenei iff, 4 r V
F y a,, » 3/3-
Spcrmaccti do, 6/.
Shake-down hhds. 3C6
Dutch ftun-powder,pr. cwt. 6'•
Nail rods, pr. ton, 3s/. 3 8/.
Lintfccd oil, pr. gal. tj.
Whale do. pr. barrel, s°/ 'S s f