PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENh'O, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 21, cf Vol. 11. j
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
On the MEANS of PRESERVING the UNION of
the AMERICAN STATES.
THE present Constitution of the United States
appears to be excellent in contemplation ;
and if the harmony of the States ftiould not be
disturbed by groundless jealoulies, it bids fair to
bedurableand efficient in pra<ftice. It ishowever
■very doubtful whether several jurisdi&ions with
in a jurisdiction, wheels within a wheel, will not
produce fonie jarring in their movements. The
experiment is curious, and much wisdom and
pt udence may render it fuccefsful.
What then are the probable means of perpe
tuating our present eltablifhments ? Patriotism
and the (wont are not the means. I conceive
the means to confilt folelyin a union ofinterejls
I.—All debts contracted during the late war,
and in the common cause, mult be made a common
charge against the Union, and the creditors must
all look to the fame authority for payment, must
de >end on the fame rej'ources ,and have the offer of
equal compensation. Divide the debts, divide the
resources, leave the different State legillatures to
make various unequal provisions for payment, and
a hostility will immediately commence between
the gene 1 aland particular governments, and be
tween the different descriptions of creditors.—
To fever our Union forever, nothing is wantod,
kut to set three or four States contending with
Congress about the sources of revenue ; and un
lets the debts ftiould be affumedand made a com
mon charge, nothing but infinite power could
prevent fach a contention.
II There ftiould be no exclusion of persons
■who hold feats in the national government from
a capacity to hold, at the fame time, offices under
the state governments. However diflinH the pow
ers of the governments may be, their inttreJls are
♦V.; fame- °Both are designed to promote the wel
fare and happiness of the fame citizens. If two
offices a' C incompatible, whether under state go
vprnmpnft or the national government, common
Jenfe will di<st\^ e they ftiould not be lodged
in the fame hands. But a proportion for a total
•xcluftoii of member. < Congress and federal of
ficere from any feat or "» a tatc , S ove, »-
ment, indicates a jealoufyotouT national govern
ment, toa high decree alarming. s " ch apiopo
lition, like the exclusion of Clergymen front ci
vil offices, supposes an enmity between i'ue two go
vernments or two orders of men, which i
each to fortify againlt the other, by erecting an
impaflable barrier. It is a declaration of hoftNi
lies between parties whole very exiilence depenu*
on peace and union. The federal government
stands on the State governments, as on pillars ;
and without thenational government's guaranty,
the independence of a State could not be '.eCuie
for a year. What madness thus to wage war
with the national government! Whatinfatuation
to create fparate interefls, when the whole buli
nefs of this generation is, UNION !
Consolidation, that bug b-ar of ant ifederalilm,
has spread terrific apprehenftons, and made ho
nest men dread the influence of the national go
vernment. But in the name of common fenle,
let tne ask, was ever a nation too firmly confotidated
for the purposes of good government ? Never, it
may be answered, never was a political lociety
too clofcly united for ftrengtli, harmony, and
happiness. Ancient Greece and all modern Eu
rope can teftify, that half the calamities of man_
kind have frown out of the rivalfhips, pride, and
discordant views of petty sovereignties ; nay,
■we ourselves fliould bless God for a tedeial con
stitution, which, by abridging the independence
of the States, extinguiflied the sparks of civil
war, that, in 1755, lay Mattered through the
States, just ready to be blown into a flame. 1 hei e
is no physical certainty that the state govern
merits will ever be melted down into the general
government ; centuries at least must escape, be
fore this event can take place, in the ordinary
proo-refs of political changes. If it ever lhould,
it will probably be the effert of pre-difpofing
causes which will render it neceflary for. public
happiness. But by dividing the interests of the
States, and detaching the officers of the liationa
government from their interest in the State go
vernments, the most effectual bonds of union
will be diflblved, our national laws will be with
out energy, and America may expect to be
icourged with fatfiions, war and conquest. It is
a feiititnent most deeply imprett'ed on my mind,
that the whole business of the present age is,
UNION'- N - W -
Hartford* jfun 12, 1790.
WEDNESDAY* JUNE 23, J 79°-
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA No. XL
Ilvroas procacrl! What bounds your pride fliall hold ?
What check, veftram your thitft of power and gold ?
'"IT* HE arifwer to the questions in the motto, can
A be none other than this, that as nature has
established in the bofoins of heroes no limits to
those paifions ; and as the world, instead of re
straining, encourages them, the check inuft be,
in the form of government.
The world encourages ambition and avarice,
by taking the moll decidcd part in their tavor.
The Roman world approved of the ambition ot
Caesar ; and, notwithstanding all the pains that
have been taken with so much reason, by moral
and political writers to disgrace it, the world has
approved it these 17 hundred years ; and still es
teems his name an honor to the firft empire in
Europe.' Consider the (lory of the ambition and
the fall ofCardinal Wolfey and Archbishop Laud ;
the indignation of the world against their tyran
ny has been very faint ; the sympathy with their
fall has been very Itrong. Consider all the ex
amples in hillory of fuccefsful ambition, you will
find none generally condemned by mankind ;
on the other hand, think of the instances of am
bition unfuccefsful and disappointed ; or ot falls
from great heights, you find the sympathy ofthe
world uuiverfally affected. Cruelty and tyranny
of the blackest kind must accompany the Itory,
to destroy or sensibly diminish this That
world, for the regulation ot whose prejudices,
paifions, imaginations and interests, governments
are instituted, is so unjust, that neither religion,
natural nor revealed, nor any thing, but a well
ordered and well balanced government has ever
been able to correcft it, and that but imperfectly.
It is as true in modern London, as it was in anci
enL Rome, that the sympathy of the worlu is less
excited by the deftrmition ot the lioofe ot a man
of hum it, in obfeurity, or even in middle life,
though it be by the unjust violence of men, than
by Ihe fame (alamity befalling • rich man, by the
righteou? imlignation of heavgii-
Nil habuit Corfius : (juts enir»> negai ? ft illud
Pc' 1 iW.it iufclix totucn nihil, ulumus au cm
cumulus, qnod nudjm ct frutlra rogintem
Nrmo ciboj*nemo hofpilio tutoque juvab.t,
Si magna Ariuii efcidid domus, horrida mater,
Pjlk u proceres, ditfert vadimonia Praetor.
T'inc r.emimus cafws urbis, tunc odimus ignem.
Aiditudliuc, ct iam accurrit qui marmora nonet,
Conlerat impcnlas. Hie nuda et Candida liqna;
Hie aliquid pracclarum Euphranoi iset Polycleti,
J lie pharcafianoruro vctcra ornamenta Deorum.
Hie libros dabit et forulos, ipeJiamquc Minervam ;
Hie modium Argenti : mcliora et p'ura reponit
Perticus orborum lautiflimus, ut merito jam
Sufpethis, tanquam ipfe fuas incenderit xdes.
But hark ! th' affrighted crowd's tuinultuotis cries
Roll through the streets, and thunder to the (lues :
it.us'd from some pleasing dream of wealth and power,
Some pompous palace, or some blifsful bower,
Aghast you start, and scarce with aching fight,
Sustain the approaching fire's tremendous light;
Swift from pursuing horrors take your way,
And leave your little all to fhmcs a prey ;
Then thro'the world a wretched vagrant roam,
For where can starving merit find a home ?
In vain your mournful narrative disclose,
While all neglctt, and mod insult your woes.
But
Should heaven's iuft bolts >'s wealth confound,
And fpre«d his flaming palace on the ground,
Swift o'er the land the dismal rumor flies,
And public mournings pacify the skies ;
The laureat'tribe in venal verft relate,
How virtue wars with persecuting fate ;
With well-feign'd gratitude the pcnfion'd band .
Refund the plunder of the beggar'd land.
See ! while he builds, the gaudy vaflals come,
And crowd withfudden wealth the rising dome ;
The price of boroughs and ot fouls reflore ;
And raise his treafurcs higher than bctore :
Now blefs'd with all the baubles of the great,
The polifh'd marble and the shining plate,
lees the golden pile aspire
And hopes from angry heav'n another fire.
Although the verse, both of the Roman and
the Briton, is satire, its keenest severity conhfts
in its truth. — _____
FROM THOMAS') MASSACHUSETTS SPY.
eulogium,
Bv Dr. Albicinci Waldo,
Delivered at the gratis of the late General ISRAEL |
PUTNAM.
THOSE venerable relics ! once delighted in
the endearing domeltic virtues, which con
stitute the excellent neighbor—husband—-parent
and worthy brother !—Liberal md substantial
in his friendfliip*—tnifufpicious—open— and ge
nerous—iulV and sincere in dealing a benevo
lent citizen of the world He c o»
hisbofom, the noble qualities of an HONES 1
a HERO-whom nature taught,and cherilh
ed in the lap of innumerable toils and dangers
497
c
he was terrible in battle !—lint- from the na
tive amiablenefs of his heart—.when carnage ce-<-
fed—his humanity spread over tile field, like the
zephyrs of a fumuier's evening \-rr
The prisoner wounded—the sick—the
forlorn—experienced the delica'e sympathy of
this SOLDIER'S PILLAR. !—The poor and the
needy, of every defcripiion, received thechai;
table bounties of this CHRISTIAN SOLDIhR !
He pitied littleness—loved goodness—admired
greatness—and ever aspired to its glorious sum
mit !—The friend, the servant, and almo(t uil
parralleled lover of his country :—Worn with
honorable age, and the former toils of 'jsar<,
PUTNAM—" rests from his labors !'*
11 Till mouldering worlds, and tumbling systems burst !
When the last Trump, (hall renovate his dust • —
Still by the mandate of ETERNAL TRUTH,
His SOUL will " liourith in immortal Youth !"
« This, all who item him, know—this, alt who lov'd
him, tell"
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTA riVES.
TUESDAY, MAY as.
Mr. GfcK r \'s motion on the tifjumption oj the State debts, which was
inserted in thii paper i J tin 26th, under conjideration
MR. BOUDINOT then rose and said—l am oile of those, Mr-
Chairman, whoconfider t'.je fubjeft now before you of as
much importance as any that has yet required the attention of Con
gress. When it was firft brought forward, it was new to me ; I
therefore determined in my own mind, patient!) to hear both
fides of the question, and to weigh every argument before 1 drew
any positive conclusion : being also a State creditor (tho' in the ha
bit ot receiving interest from the State) my fears were excited,
lead felfintereft might miftead my judgment.—On the(e account*
the committee have hitherto not received any trouble in the com
munication of my fentimcnts on this important question. I have
contented myfclf with a silent vote, and fttould havp dill continu
ed in the fame disposition, had not the gentleman who spoke ort
this fubjeft* whfn it was last under consideration, advanced fomc
arguments and diew certain conclusions from them, that fttuck
me as neither founded in fa6l or reason. He appeared to me to
involve the fubjett in unnecessary perplexity, and tho' Ample in
itfelf, became obfeurefrom the terms by which h was diftinguilfc
ed and the manner in which live argument was handled. It has
been generally denominated " the assumption of the State debts;"
from whence a bxcJtander might suppose that the States, or fomc
individual State, had called upon us to aflume a debt or debts that
we owed to them ; but nothing is further from the truth. What
is the fubjtft before us ? It is an application of our creditors, qn
which a question arises, whether a Certain species of debt, eviden
ced by certificates from an individual State, is pau of the do
mestic debt of the United States, or whether it is the private debt
I of the individual State 7
Let us then fimplify the question and ronfider it abflra&ly on its
true principles ; for if it lho«ld turn out to be the fuft, no man
can aftign a good reason why a disci iininatiofi should be made a
mong our creditors. If the fact, it will be as difficult to assign a
reason why we iiould now aiTume them. The honorable gentle
man who spoke last against the afTurnptioo of these debts put the
question on proper principles, but his arguments appeared to be
exceedingly fallacious. He alledged, •• that it had been contend
ed that the State debts are in their nature debtsof the United States,
and that the individual creditors can of right claim payment of the
fame from the general government. lie denied the principle, and
said that if these debts be nothing more than the debts of the U
nited States, under another denomination, and if we are bound
to provide for them as for the debts of the United States, let gen
tlemen conflder whether they arc not bound to view them in thiA
light whe fever they may be found, meaning in the State treasuries."
This state of the question neccfTarily leads to an investigation
of the nature of the debts ptopofed to be funded by the amend
ment now moved t® ihe bill for funding the domestic debt of the
United States.
These debts consists of certificates given by the individual States
for—pay to the army —depreciation of pay—militia fervices—fupplits
found, and —services rendered. As these arc all on one tooting, to
avoid pcplexity, I will take the army debt for an example. This
debt was contra&ed by the United States in Congress assembled.
When our common Country was threatened with an invasion by a
very powerful enemy* the necessary defence tequired the railing
of an army. —A union of the States was formed, and a confedera
tion entered into, that the expcnces for the common defence
flmuld be paid out of a public trealury, to be supplied by the rcf
pefchve States according to their fevcral abilities. Troops were
accordingly brought into the field, un ier certain ftipnlations of pay
andfupport. Several years pad away, and the soldiers not only
bravely fought your battles, but in the end fecurcd your liberties,
and cftabliCned your independence.
The States having failed in supplying your treasury, the stipulat
ed payments were ncgle&ed, large atrears accruea, and after a
fencs of fufferings (unknown to any other troops) a mutiny took
place, and the deftruttiofi of your army was well nigh accom
plilhed—By the exertions of your commander in chief, and the
most judicious management on his part, this serious disturbance
i-nded in commiflioners being sent to Congress with requifuions on
the part of the whole army, requesting redress in a number of in
llauces.
Suffer me to read the report of the grand Committee of Con
gefsand their subsequent refolutiom in anfwertothisapplication.
" Saturday, January 25, 1783 —The grand committor, cmfifting of
t member from each. State, report, That they have considered the con
tents oj a memorial presented by the army, and find they comprehendjive
different articles.— Ift. Prefentpay. id. A settlement of accounts of
the arrearages of pay and fecurlty for what is due. 3d. A commutation
of half pay. 4(6 (elUement of accounts for deficiencies of rations and
compensation. $th. Settlement of accounts of deficiencies of (loathing
and compeifation. Whereupon, Refolvtd, as to the firjl, that the fupcr
intendant cf the finances make payment, &c. Refolvcd, with refpeCl to
the feconiarticle, so far as relates to the fettkment of accounts, that
the several States be called Upon to complete, without delay, the
futlemcnts with their refpeftive lines ol the army, up to the ill
day of Anguft, 1780, and that the Superintendant of Finance be di
reßed to take such mcafures as/hall appear to him mofl properfor effefl
ing thefcttlcmcnt from that period. As to what relatet to providing
[Whole NO. 125-^■tjfuu, it) for uhatfia/ltefionJ 4*t on fuAfittLmOt, RMvtd, that
V troops of tk: L HUed itat;s, ui comm.to with all the creditors of
the lame, hsve an u«doubte4 right to expett fuc,h lecurity ; and
!£ , 0 "?r ,V '' «» I,keev * r y ef fori in their power to obtain from
f Jf , P e^ lve toatei, lubftantial funds, adequate to the obi a ot
fund lug the w.iole debt of the UMl.ed States, and will enter upon
dn immediate ana tutl confider«tio»of the nature of such funds,
toe n.o mode of obtaining them." Nothing can more
cieai .y appear, than that at the time of thei'e resolutions, Congrcfs
MJafidcud .he Uobt due to the army for pay and depreciation ot
jay, as well as that due to their other creditors, as the particular
L '"'^ d States.—Hete was no pretenccof denying the
contrast or turning them over to the S.ates for payment. It is
true, Congrds in thalercfolutiotu call upon the individual States,
to fettle with their lines of the arm) to a given day, but the pay
JS to come trom adequate funds to be provided by the efforts of
ongre s romtlie teveral Stales. Iu obedienceto this requisition,
the Stales proceed to the fcttlemerif, not only of the Day to the
-lines of the army,lnn alto of the claims of their citizens for fuppliet
Turnithed to contiadlors, comm lfane, and quarter-matters witli
all their holt ot-deprndants, and'ec lifieaies of the balances due
to them, were given under the direftionof the States individually,
who thereby agietably to the foregoing resolutions, became fecu
nty to tlx creditors, on hehalf of the confederated government,
* >at thetrdebis should be paid. Congress immediately proceed
ed to demand of the kveral States, an import of 5 per cent, ad va
lorem os all goods, wares and merchandizes, imported into the
United States, and, additional fuins for 25 years, adequate to the
payment of the intrrtft of the whole debt agreeably to. their affur.
ances in answer to the memorial if the army.
Some of the Stat** compßed with this requisition, and provided
supplementary hinds ovcd and above the impoll tor 25 years -but
others refuting, the whole pcoj'ett wis rendered abortive and the
creditors of the union left in the most diftrefling circumftancej.
• ihe clamours ot the citizcns wete too great to be withilood bv
manpof the States yvhoconfidered themfetves as sureties for the
•united States, and indeed under aneceflityof rendering foine im
mediate, tuo' partial fupplies,to prevent everything running into
<onfuiion. They thereupon undertook tq pay their own citizens
Jie inieretl due on their refpeftive certificates, whether given by
1 ie Ipecial oflirer* of Congrets (as the coramitiioners ot loan) or
under the dircrtion of the Itandard before mentioned. The State
«>l Ncw-Jeifev in this way paid five years intertft, to the amount
<11 leveral hundred thousand dollars. But although th ■Ir partial
1 ayments put the evil day farther otf, yet the time at last came
' w ' len goud We ps tlie people, finding the government una
l ie to support Itfclt and comply with their engagements, and fee
ing nothing but ruin aud confufioii before tiiem, wifely brought
about another revolution, and formed a new conaitution founded
on a more intimate union us the (e*eral States, with greater and
more efficient powers for the purpole of ejUbliJhing jujlt. t , infurinr
ttouvjiic ttanijuUity r j)romotfng the general wtjare tnJfeturui' the blel-
J:ngJ Itj liberty. J
Provision was'alfo rxprefsly made, that all dibts and engage
njents binding on the lormer government, lhoold be equally va
lid againll the prcftnt. Under this new conUuution, the govern
ment is veftcd 111 the fullelt manner with all the resources and
funds necelfary for the paymrnt of the general debt of the union,
»nd what thej had in vain asked of the several Slates under the
former conlorieration. Ol course (he individual Stale was de
prived of them, and no longer had it in her power to continue
her partial aids towards fatisfying the growing interest on the de
mands of their citizens.
Iri this foliation, and under these circumstances, our creditors
cams forward, with the evidences of their demands given hy
the individual State by order ot the United States in Con<refs af
lemblcd, and demand payment of us, as their original debtor,
lor whom they performed the services and to whom they granted
thefupplies, allcrfging that by the transfer of the revenues and
/efources ot government from the refpe&ive States (o us, their fe
curtty is invalidated and we arc become able to pay them, agreea
bly to the fpint of our original contract. These quMlions then
lairlv arise,
Was the contrail originally ouri, or were the United States the
original debtor ?— if so, has the creditor been paid his jull due, or
lias he releafctl us from thr obligation ?
There caibe no doubt in my opinion, from the foregoing view
of the circumlfance! of the cale ; and 1 believe no gentleman will
deny, but that we are the original debtors as reprelcniin- (he for
mer government.
It is asclear that all the creditor has received for his demand
.*ias been a ceitifi-atc from the Stat--, tellifyiug a certain bailee'
die to him for his Cervices, or for supplies rendered. And here
J should enter into the argument, to (hew that (his certificate from
the State cannot on any principles of jujiice, honor or po/ict be
considered as payment, was not already done to mv
band in language so much more"forcible than any I can use on
ibis occasion, and the omiflion of which would be impnfing on
tiie committe-. This will be found in the 322 d and 413 th pages
o( the Congrrllional Register, where an Mr
jVladilon) in (peaking on the lubjeft of public certificates, thou gh
to another point, favs, " Let us consider firll by whom the debt
was contracted, and then to whom it is due. The debt was con
tracted by the United States, who with refpeft to that particular
tranfa&ion were in a national capacity. The government was no
thing more than the agent or organ by which the whole body of
the people attcd. The charigeiri the government which has taken
place, has enlarged its national capacity, but it has not varied the
national obligation with refpeft to the engagements entered into
by that transition—for in like manner the present government is
noshing more than ihe organ or agent of the public. There is
110 change in our political duty nor In the moral or political ob
ligation—The language I now use is the language of the conftitu.
tion itfelf—itdeclarts that all debts Ihjll have the fame validity
agamft the United Statu, under the new asunder theoldf.rmof
government—The obligation remains the lame, though 1 hope ex
perience will prove that the ability has been favorably varied."
—Again a debt was fairly contracted ; according to juftjee and
good faith it ought to have been' paid in gold or Tilv cr. A piece
of paper was only fubltituted. Was this paper equal to gold or
silver ? No ; it was worth in the market no more than oue eighth
or one seventh of that value. Was this depreciated paper freelv
acceptcd ?No ; the government offered thai or nothing. The re
lation of the individual to the government and circumstances of
the offer, rendered the acceptance a forced, not a tree one. Again
—" Here there debt acknowledged to have been once due,
and which w"asne\er discharged, because the payment was fo'ccd
and defective ; the balance consequently is. ftili due, and is of as
facrcd a natuic as the claims of the holders can be. ThefeconcJu
five arguments agply with double force to the question before the
committee. Was the debt contra&ed by the United States ? If so
where have they any evidence of payment ? If it is answered in
the ftatc certificates, I reply, a piece of paper was only substituted
lor the bare purpose of afccitaining the balanee as preparatory to
its being funded,and that by the particular order of Cougrefs,un
der the idea of providing the creditor with fecur-ity for his debts.
Was this paper equal to gold and silver or any other substantial pay
ment ? The relation oT the individual to the government and cir
cuipftances of the offer, rendered the acceptance s forced, not a
free one. But, fir, a part of the is still unenfwerecl. It
is {aid that if thefc are debts of the United States in the hands of
individual citizens, niujl they not be the debts of the United States
in the Treasuries of the different states. I auffrer by no means.
This argument is cxtremclyj fallacious.. Iri common life, if.anv
person who becomes my fecaritv, pays the debt for me and he
owes me money. J can with propriety refufe to'-pay- him till he fct
tks.|ais debt with me ; but if such fecuriiy icfufes, or is unabJed
to pay the dclt to my Creditor, I certainly have no to put off
.my creditor till the security (hall have paid me what he may owe
me. * (To continued.)
MONDAY, JUNE 21, 1790.
THE bill to etlabiifli the Poll-Office and Port;
Roads in the United States, was brought in
engrofled, and read the third time. The blanks
were filled up.—The fine for detaining the mail
was set at a funi not exceeding 5 dollars for every
halt hour. The falaryof the Post-Master-Gener
al 1600 dollars—Alfiftant 1000 dollars—Deputy
Pott-Matters 20 pr. cent, on the pottage of letters
received at their refpe<ftive offices.—The blanks
being filled up, the bill was palled.
Reports from the Secretary at War on sundry
petitions were read.
The bill for repealing after thelaftdayof
the duties heretofore laid on spirits, &c. was ta
ken into consideration.—The queltion was, whe
ther the bill fhould*be engrofled.
Mr. Stone observed, that no man could be more
in favar of making provision for the debt of the
United States, than himfelf—but the present bill
pointed out a mode which he conceived to be the
worst that could be devised—the mod exception
able, and would turn out the most unprodu«fiive.
He ffiould therefore vote against the bill on a full
conviction that other funds, entirely unexcept
ionable, might be found, and which might be
contained perhaps in a quarter of a Iheet of pa
per. Hefaid he should call for the Ayes and Noes.
Mr. Carrol observed, that as so much time had
been taken up in maturing the bill, he hoped
that it would pass to be engrofled—the business
is of very great importance, and ought now to be
finilhed. He wished therefore that the Ayes and
Noes might not be called in the present ttage of
the bill, as it would not, he conceived, answer the
purpose intended by the gentleman.
Mr. Stone withdrew his motion.
Mr. Bloodworth renewed the motion, but as.
terwatds he withdrew it.
Mr. Page said he hoped that the Ayes and Noes
would be called. -
Mr. Jackson was also in favor of coming to ai:
ultimate dccifio'n on the bill.
Mr. Gerry said if there is a majority of the
house who are determined to reje(A the bill, he
could not feeof.whatufeit was to have itengfofled.
Mr. Fitzfimpns said he had observed, that if this
bill ihould be-*eje<aed, there would be great dif
ficulty in finding other resources He wilhed
that the House would now decide npon it.
Mr. Vining spake in favor of the bill, and was
Tor trying theitrength of the house on the quef
ion, and in that; view >vas in favor of calling the
iyct and Noes. Thequeftion on engroffin? the
.ill was deterwmed in the negative, as follow •
Meflrs Brown, Cadw&ltader, Carrol, Contee
r itzlimoils, Ployd, bolter, Gale, Gilnwir, Griffin'
Hartley, Heifter, Lee, Livermore, Madison, p'
Muhlenberg, Seney, Sherman, Sinnjekfon, Smith
(M.) Vimng, White, Willi am foil 22.
NOES.
Meflrs Ames, Afhe, Baldwin, Benfon, Blood
worth, Burke, Coles, Gerry, Goodhue, Grout,
Hathorne, Huger, Huntington, Taction, Law
ranee, Leonard, Matthews, Moore, Page, Parker
Partridge, Itenfellaer, Scot,
Smith, (S C.) Sevier, Steele, Stone, Sturges
Sumpter, Thatcher, Trumbull, Tucker, Wads'
worth .35. '
By this vote, the bill was loft.
Mr. Kitzfimons moved that a committee fliould
be appointed todevife a plan for payment of the
interelt on the debt of the United States This
motion was agreed to—and the followingeentle
n'en -viz. Mr.Fitzfimons, Mr.Madiron
Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Sherman, Mt. Tucker. '
A meilage was received from the Senate in
ormingthat they have concurred in the vote of
the house, of the Bth inft. for appointiug a joint
committee toconfider and determine on 1 proper
Um tr f or , t . 1 . , . e r ad j° ur n me nt, and that they have
palled a bill for fettling the claims of John Mc
Coid, with amendments.
In committee of rhe whole on the amendatory
bill, providing for the settlement of accounts be
tween the United States and individual States
T , , A Mr. Seney in the Chair.
The firft clause provides for encreafingthenuni
ber °to J 6 niß lonerS from 3' the prefent num.
Mr. Foller moved that the words, « two Com
miffioners in addition to" should be ttruck out
Mr Lawrance objected to the motion. He ob
lervedthat very exteiifive powers were given to
these comnulhoners-the objects on whfch they
are to decide are of the utmoil importance-and
he thought that { con.miffioners wiuld give more
frttisfaftion to the people than 3
Mr. Livermore was in favor of the motion—
He thought the business would be procrastinated
111 proportion to the number.— 1 hree has lippn
ti 10 fh ght [ uffic!ent —" ot hing new has been offered
to ftiew that any more are necefiary. If the num
ber was encreafed to 60, he thought it wou,d
only enibarrafs the more.—He considered the
addition as an indiretft impeachment of the tren
tlemen now in office-he had never heard^y
498
AYES.
fault found with them—he believed thev
competent to the bufinefs.—lf we make the a?
(lition, what has been done, may be all loft i„u
If 3 would finifh the business in 3 years he 1 J
no doubt that 5 would take J years. '
Mr. Williamfon said he differed from the «
tlenian lalt speaking, in refpetf to the addition
to the board's being an impeachment or imnm
tion on the gentlemen now in office.
The powers proposed to be veiled,are much mm
extenfive than tliofe by the former bill— w u- f
renders it expedient that the number fhould'v,
encreafed—that more accurate information f r "
various parts of the Union may be collected"—
He said he had the highelt opinion of the prefer,
Coinmiflionei s—they were gentlemen whose a i C
lities were undoubtedly refpedtable—but he couW
not conceive that their abilities or importan
would be leflened or depreciated by the pronnfj
addition. ea
Mr. Livermore made some reply to Mr.\Vili; am
son The motion for ftrikingout was neo-,'
lived. o a "
On motion, of Mr. Sherman, the 6tli fe<fli on Wa
amended to read thus—That the States who fiall
have balances placed to their credit on the books
of theTreafury of the United States, shall with ,
i" after the fame fliall have been ere"
dited, be entitled to have the fame funded upon
the fame terms as the other debts of the n n Lj
States. uca
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) moved thatthe claufewhich
deprives the States of the power of transferino
the debts due to them from the United States
should be (truck out. He observed that he could
fee no reason for the prohibition—it appears ab.
surd that a State should not have it in its power
to transfer its demands against the United States
to its creditors.—He wished that gentlemen would
assign the reafoijsfor the clause.
Mr. Sedgwick said he would give the reafon
it was to prevent increasing the demands against
the United States, in the hands of foreigners -
This was a desirable obje<ft, and ought to be at
tended to as far as pollible.—ln refpedt to tha
domestic debt, it was to be lamented, that so much
ofit was in the hands of foreigners— this however
could not be prevented ; but with refpeft to the
present cafe, it may be done without any injury
whatever—and therefore we ought to extend the
prohibition a« far as we can confident with juitice
Mr. Sherman spake against the motion.
Mr. Smith supported his motion He (hewed
the inconvenience and expence that would attend
the double operation of the Stares' firft recei*in<r
their mtereft, and then paying it to their credi »
tors He further observed that it v; as treating
the States like children—individuals may transfer
their demands-but the States are I)ot so to be
trusted.— He added other remarks—v hen the
question being taken, motion was 1011.
Mr. Sedgwick moved thal , he clause be
amended to reau,—and no debt due to any parti
cular State, frail be transferable. This wasa
greed to.
I he c,,au(e which provides for paying the clerks
500 d ollars from the time of their appointment,
was amended by striking out the last words " from
Me time of their appointment."
The Committee rose and reported the bill with
the amendments.
The amendment refpeifting the Clerks was ob
jetted to by Mr. Seney—it was however agreed to
by the House. 6
Mr, Jackion moved that the clause, determin
mg the rule of apportionment, in the following
wous, <c The rule for apportioning to the States
the expences of the war, ihaJl be the fame that is
prescribed by the Constitution of the United
tates or the apportionment of representation
and direvft taxes, and according to the firft enu
meration that shall be made," should beftruckout
—and called for the Ayes and Noes—which are
as follow : AYES.
Meflrs Afhe Baldwin, Floyd, Foster, Gilman,
Hathor"?, Jackson, Lawrance, Livermore, Sedg-
Merti s Arries, Benfon, Blood worth, Boudinot,
Brown, Burke, Cadwallader, Carrol, Coles, Con
tee, Htzfimons, Gale, Goodhue, Griffin, Grout,
ei rer, Huger, Huntington, Leonard, Madison,
Mulilenburg, Moore, Fage, Partridge, Renfellaer,
.reman, Scot, Seney, Sherman, Sylvester,
Sinu.ckfon, Smith(M.) Smith(S.C.) Sevier, Steele,
atone, Sturges, Sumpter, Thatcher, Trumbull, '
I ucker, Vining, Wadsworth, White, William
ion ' '
A clause was proposed by Mr. Tucker, for con
tinuing the salaries of the Commissioners to the
i , , altho the accounts should
be fettled prior to that period. The firft part
was agreed to—from the word « altho" to the
end, was negatived.
A motion was made by Mr. Steele to amend the
cJaule which refpeds the claims of the States, to
ltr.ke out the word « was" before the word ex
v'[ed > a, . ,fl t0 "ifert the words " /hall be."—
J his motion was negatived. —-It was then vo
ted that the bill be engrofled for a third reading
to-morrow. Adjourned.
NOES.TUESDAY, JtlN'F. 22.
The amendatory bill providing for the fettlemtii. of account
>etween the United States and individual States, having been en
grossed—the house filled up the blanks, and palled the bill.
Mr. Goodhue, of the committee appointed tor the pnrpofe
brought in a bill layingan additional duty on tonnage, purfuaut t<3
resolutions ofthe House ; the bill was read and refericd to a com.
mittee of the whole, to be taken up to-morrow.
Sundry reports ofthe Secretary at War were read—among others
on the petition of the heirs of William Gould, deceafcd, praying an
allowance of his half pay for hit children, for real'ons set forth—ths
report was in favor of granting the petition, and that 1680 dollars,
the half pay ofa captain for 7 years, be granted—this r port, on
motion of Mr. Seney, was accepted, and a committee, consisting of
Mr. Seney, Mr. Heilter and Mr. Moore, was appointed to bring
in a bill accordingly.
The amendment ofthe Senate to the bill for fatisfyingthe claims
of John McCbrd was agreed to.
Mr. Lawrance prefeiited a petition from certain mhabitints of
thecountyof Weft Chiller in the State of New-York, praying
payment for losses sustained during the war—which was read,and
referred to the Secretary at War. '
On motion of Mr. Boudiuoi, the report of the Secretary at Wat,
Oirthe petition of William Oliver, was read, and agreed to.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to regulate, uade and in
tercourse with the Indian Tribes, , . _
* ' Mi. Boudinot in the Cljair.
Th««om mittee agreed to faudry amendments to this bill, which
were reported 10 the Houfcaod adopted.
Mr. Sba man moved that the 4th feftion Ihould be itruck out of
the bill viz. "t hat a sum not exceeding thousand dollars,
te appropriated out of the monies ariling from duties on imports
and tonnage, fubjeft to the orders of the President of the United
States, to be laid out in goods and articles of trade suitable for sup
plying the wants ?nd neceflities of the Jndians, and to be vended
and retailed to them, through the agency of the said Superinten
dants, and perfonsto be licensed by them for that purpose, in such
manner, and conformably to such regulations, as the President of
the United States lhall eftabiifh,
On this motion, Mr. Jackson callcd for the aye» and noes—
•which arc as follows.
McflVs. A(hc, Bloodworth, Coles, Floyd, Foftcr, Gerry, Good
hue, Hathorne, Heiftetj Huger, Huntington, Jackson, Leonard,
LTVCTfrfore, Tarter rßSflfellaer, Schureman, Sedgwick, Seney, Sevi
er, Sherman, Sylvester, Stone, Sturgi , Sumpter, Tucker. 26.
NOES.
Meflrf. Ames, Baldwin, Benlon, Boudinot, Brown, Cadwalla
der, Contfrc, Fitzhmons, Gale, Gilmao, Griffin, Hartley, LaW
rance, Lee, Mudiion, Matthews, Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Pags,
Scot, Sinnickfon, Smith, (M.) Smith, (S. C.) Steele, Trumbull,
Wadfwojth. White 27.
On motion of Mr. Steele, a clause was added limitting the du
ration of the bill-to two yejrs.
It was theft ordered that the bill be rngTolTed. Adjourned.
Englijh Pafen by the Packet are as late as the Bth of
nr/•. i . I _
May—from thsvi we learn,
THAT affairs between the Emperor of Ger
many and the King of Pruifia, are drawing to a
the latter is making, and has made
great preparations for war.—The NationalAflein
bly of France has pafl'ed a decree to exempt all
the French parishes from the jurisdiction of every
foreign bishop—they lmvepalfed several new de
crees refpeifting criminal jurisprudence—among
others, that a copy <Sf the indi<ftment lhall be given
to the prisoner, free of expence.—The celebrated
Paoli appeared at the bar of the National Allein
bly, and was received with uncommon applause
—the following is his address on the oecafion.
" Mefficurs, ,
" This day h the happiell and most fortunate
of my whole life. 1 have fpeut that life in the
ardentpurfuit of liberty, and I.now behold that
noble fpedtacle. 1 left my country in chains, I
find her free. What can 1 wilh for more ? 1
know not what change the iron hand of oppres
sion may have had upon the minds of my fellow
patriots, in an absence froin iny country of 20
years ; but you have restored to the Corficans
their liberties—you have bellowed On them their
pristine virtue. In returning to my native coun
try, my fentiinents can hardly be doubted. You
have been generous to me—and I have never been
a slave. My past conduct, which you have ho
itored by your approbation, will be a pledge for
my future principles. 1 will be bold to afl'ert,
that my whole life has been spent as if bound
by an oath to liberty. It has been already made
to the Constitution which you have eftablilhed.
It now remains for me to make it to the nation
which has adopted me, and the sovereign whom
1 acknowledge. It is the favor that I requell of
this august aflembly."
Upon motion of Mr. Target, it was decreed,
without any debate, that
" All persons born out of the kingdom, of fo
reign'parents, fliall, if eftablilhed in France, be
reputed Frenchmen, and admitted as such, tothe
exercise oftlie rights of acfiive citizens, after tak
ing the civic oath, and after being domiciliated
for five years in France ; provided they shall al
lb have either acquired a real estate, married a
Frtnch woman, formed a trading ellablilhment,
or received admilfion as Burgelles into certain ci
ties : And this notwithstanding any usage tothe
contrary.
If a war between Spain and England should
take place, it will be occalioned by a refulal on
the partof the former to make fatisfaction for se
veral Englilh vellels captured by Spanilh men of
■war at Nootka found—and their infilling, by vir
tue of some ancient granc, on an exclusive Hghtto
navigate in thole Seas.—These circuinftances are
detailed in a mellage of the King of Great Britain,
to the Parliament.—Representations have been
made to the Court of Spain—who, so far from
discovering any disposition to accede to the british
demands, afler.ts its claim and has made-great pre
parations to support it—in consequence of this an
address was presented to the King of Great Bri
AYES.
tain, a full echo of themeflage—atidafleet of fix
Ships of war have failed form Portsmouth—and,
as llatedin our lalt, ,a very hot press for seamen
has taken place in all the maritime towns.—
There are great commotions in the Pope's domi
nions—many estates have been laid walte—
the city of Avignon was in hourly expectation of
being attacked and pillaged ; the dillentions
continue among the patriots in the low countries
—the Emperor taking advantage of this was
marching a body of troops towards the States.
Orfova a Turkilh fortrefs has surrendered to the
Aultrian army—other places ofllrength were ex
pe(sted to fall in consequence. The Englilh pa
pers coniain Iketches of debates in the House of
Commons on the recent armament —Fox, as usual,
attacks the minister ; his molt material charges
against him, appear to be, that he kept that se
cret, which ought not to have been disclosed—
and did not inform the public of that which he
himfelf was ignorant.of; a minister whojis exposed
to such crimination only, mult stand on a firm
foundation indeed.
EPILOGUE
To the WIDOW of MALABAR.
Spoken by Mrs. Henry.
WELL here I come—and almost out of breath,
'Twixt love, fire, fear, and widowhood and death ;
While I for such fi£litious jlrifc ain harness'd —
I feel—l than half in earnelt :
By Bramins feiz'd—thole bloody-minded fellows —
My hair-breadth (capes were greater than Othello's !
Nought could havefav'd me from the jaws ot fate,
Hdd my.French lover come one breath too late—
The Pile prepar'd and kindling brisk as tinder,
They'd burn'd your poor Laniila to a cinder !
But well our Author had contriv'd the whole,
And seems, in truth, a rigfct good-natur'd foul :
He swears himfelf his Drama, without vanity,
Is founded on the basis of Humanity ;
Without one rule or unity infringing,
Hefav'd his Heroine from a mortal fingeing —
So after all this mighty fire and rattle,
Ourbloodlefs Play is like a bloodless Battle.
Am I to blame, if, this dear life to save,
I lik'd a lover better than a grave ;
Piefeir'd your chtiftian maxims for .1 Drama,
To all the murd'rous rite# of Pagan Brama ;
And held, retreating from my fun'ral Urn,
14 'Twas better far to marry than to burn ?"
No- I'll be burn'd but every Maid and Widow,
Would do, in such a cafe, just as I did do.
Yes thank your stars, Columbia's happy Dames !
Ye need not fear those trigntfuL fun'ral flames :
Of other lands let foreign Baids be dreaming,
But this, this only is the laud for women :
Heie ye invert the Braiftin's barb'rou| plan,
And stretch your fceptrc o'er the Tyrant-Mail.
Ye Men. if I offend, l ask your pardon,
I would not for the world your sex hear hard on.
Te are the fathers, founders of a nation,
The Gods on Earth, the Lords ot this Creation!
And kt Philosophers fay what they please,
You've not grown lej's by coming o'er the sea.« ;
We know your worth, and /Jare proclaim your merit—
The World may ask 44 if you want fpint ?"
Your vi&'iies won—your revolution ended—
Your Conftttution newly made—and mended—
Your fund of wit—your mtellettual Riches—
Plans in the closet—in the Senate Speeches—
Will wake this age of Heroes, Wits and Sages,
The firft in llory to the latest agfs 1
Go 011 and prosper with your projects blest,
'Till your Millenium nfes in the Well : —
We wifti fu« cess to your politic fcheromg,
Rule ye the World !-r-and then be rul'd by women !
For here, ye fair, no servile rites bear sway,
Nor force ye (though ye promise) to obey i
Blest in the mildness of this temp'rate zone,
Slaves to no whims, or follies—but your own.
Herr Custom, check'd in ev'ry rude excess,
Confines its influence to the arts of dress,
O'er charms eclips'dthe fldelong hat difplayt,
Extends the hoop, or pares away the stays.
Bedecks the fair with artificial gecr,
Bread-works in front, and Bifhopi in the rear ?—•
The idol rears, on beauty's dai/.ling throne,
Mankind her slaves, and all the world her own ;
Bound by no laws a huiband's whims to fear,
Obey in life, or burn upon his bier ;
She views with equal eye, sublime o'er all,
A Lover pcrilh or a fall-
Coxcombs or Monkeys from their chains broke loose—
And now a Husband dead——and now a Goose!
Bnt jetting all apart—and such droll ftriduret ;
We'll itrive to charm vou with Hill fairer pi&urcs—
for 'tis our object to divert—not teize you—
To make you laugh or cry, as best (hall pleafc you—
So as it suits each kind Spectator's turn,
You'll come to fee me play the fool or burn
Ladies and Gentlemen ! on this condition,
I humbly offer my (incere Petition,
That you'll come oft to hear me Sing or Say—
u And poor Lanifla will forever Pray!!!*'
THE TABLET. No. CXXV.
" The voice of the people is the voice of GOD:"
IT is remarkable that so old and celebrated a
truth, as that Contained in my mono, should
be so often disputed, and so often inif'applied.
The voice of the peopleis frequently referred to,
when it dees not exilt; and it is sometimes deni
ed, when it has an existence. I made some ob
servations in the last number, to shew that the
public opinion is often too indefinite to beadmit
ted as a rule of condurt. But still there are ca
fes where it is not indefinite, and where it furiiilh
es a good rule ofcondudl.
In! all situations, where inftin<fl is a better
guide than reason ; and where habits have so long
prevailed, as to make it presumable they are
founded in natural propriety," it should be sup
posed the general sense of the people will seldom
499
be erroneous. In situations likewise, where the
people hav.e it in their power to know all the
circumstances of a cale, and where the effects of
a decision will, operate uniformly in all parts of
the community, the public voice will generally
bethe voice of truth and nature. Hut there are
few occasions where all these advantages concur
in fixing a public opinion. Moll of the quetti
ons that are difcutfed by a L.egillature are artend
ed with new and extraordinary circumstances.
The most eflential facls that come into confidera. .
tion, in any given qucition, may be known only
to part ofthe community ; and the operation ofa
measure proposed may not be alike beneficial in
the several diftritftsof the commonwealth.
It will readily be acknowledged that a repre
sentative ihould deem the opinion of his constitu
ents as a fafe and proper rule of conducft, unlets
he makes some new discovery of fatfts or reasons,
which were unknown to them, when they com
municated their ideas to him. The people of the
United States entertain a fentinieflt that
they cannot fafely relinquish "die practice of
choosing their own Representatives ; a»id that ci
vil liberty would receive a'dangerous blow, ifthe
right of trial by jury was surrendered, or the li
berty of the press abolished. It is not probable
any convention of the people, or any biegiflature
can have better means of determining such points
than the people at large polfefs. The general
impreflionsof the community on those permanent
subjects Ihould be viewed as a better criterion of
judging, than the theories or reflexions of learn
ed and sagacious individuals.
(To be continned'.)
PORTSMOUTH, June 12.
On Thursday last arrived here the Brig Betsy,
Cape. Rollins, in 32 days from Tobago. Capt.
Rollins informs, that three days before he failed,
a fire broke out in Port Louis, which raged with
such violence that but one house (the property
of Mess. M'Kean and Co.) escaped falling a prev
to this deltrutftive element. It was fuppofeH
the time, by the inhabitants, that the town
purposely set on fire by the military.
Capt. Rollins further informs, that at
time of his failing, the soldiers were embark,
on board two traufports, and were to fail in a
days for France.
NEW-YORK, JUNE 23, 1790.
Extraß of a letter from England, dated April 21/?, 1790.
w The French patriotic party will, I trust, cftablilh liberty, bu-t
not perpetuate it, unlcfs they provide fofcjhe amendment of their
present constitution ; a single house of aflembly is a one-handed
body ; and consisting of aristocrats and democrats, will never
incorporate any more than oil and water, though they may be
jumbkd together and intermixed by accident; one or the other
will be uppermoft.—Tiie political influenza does not seem to have
fri7cd the inhabitants of Britain a yet j but I eonje&ure wrong,
or those that hold or wifli to hold places and power under the
grant of royalty, are afraid left some ill wind, as they would ftilc
it, (hould waft it over, jmd produce that reform which, though
they have talked o/, have never wittied, and now oppose in
the firft inftan<_e under the plausible pretended plea of innovation.
See Burke and Pitt ; wc/e they what they once profeffed to be—
friends to a reform—now is the time to eft". 61 it, when the spirit
of liberty is so prevalent and spreading, that men of arbitrary
principles would be glad to compound and agree to every nectf
fary reform through Fear of endangering their whole system. We
have a dilTolution of parliament $t hand ; what might be the con
vulsion if at the moment it commences, the influenza Ihould be
come general in Great-Britain? Early conceflions to moderate
reasonable demandswnight have secured governing privileges and
powers, which for wint thereof have been forever loft. See the
hiftoryof the American revolution, and the tranfadlions of Fiance
during the reign of the present Louis.
The late Emperor is succeeded in his hereditary dominions by
a person of most amiable difpofaion, according to general con
ccflion. He enters upon a very involved government, and if will
require all his abilities and address to secure his poffdflions, and
lender them permanent and prosperous.
The King of Pruflia has probably long imbibed the principles
of his predecessor, to secure and improve his dominions by weak
ening the house of Austria. I therefore credit the information
given in the papers of his having formed an alliance with the
Turks, and intending to enter into a war with'the Emperor's fuc
cellor. This step, lam fearful, will eventually make us parties
in the quarrel. of approaching hostilities on
the continent I view as a political reason for hastening the dilTo
lution of Parliament as much as pollible ; that so ministry may
be secure of pliant tools for seven years certain ; but I hope the
electors will be so far apprized of it in time, as to let their repre
sentatives know, when about choosing them, that it is expelled
they should seek the peace and profpeiity of the nation, and pre
vent a general ruin from the incieafe of the public debt by a new
war.
Extra ft oj a letter from Providence.
Gen. Joseph Stanton, of Charleftown—and Theodorr
Fostor, Esq. of this town, arc chofcn Senators of the United
States—they are to proceed in a few days. There were ortfy
28 candidates.
His Excellency Arthur Fenner, Esq. Governor of the State
of Rhode-Island, hasiffued a Proclamation, requiring all
Executive and Judicial i« that State, to take the oaths prescribed
by the laws of the United States.
We hear that the Senate of the United States has amended the
fnnding bill, by striking out all the alternatives proposed by the
House of Reprefentativcs, and fixing the rate of interest on the
whole of the public debt at four per cent, Also that they havecon*
currcd in the bill refpetting the indents, so far as to fund them as
principal. _______
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST.— -NEW-YQRK.
Ship Nancy, Wilson, Philadelphia, 9 days.
Brig fame, Harvey, Greenock, 42 days.
Snow Aurora, King, Kingston, 28 days.
Schooner Stag, Thompson.New Providence, 9 daVs.
Harmony, Brcwfter, Boston,9 days.
Jenny, Schermehorn, 9 days.
Eliza, Godfrey, Philadelphia, 4 days.
(£T Wanted No. 73 and 83 of' thu paper—Six-feme each will be
aid for tfitm by the Editor.TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FROM THE LEYDEN GAZETTE.
Publifhcd by Stephen Luzac.
Taris accounts OK THE I2th OF FEB.
THE sentiments occasioned by the King's lpeech
of the 4th inft. to the N. Afl'erubly, are still
in fovce. The citizens press to take the civic
catb andinfcribe their names in the books which
are opened for 15 days for that purpose. This
«vic lift will prove the number of altive citizens,
as hereafter no person can be admitted to any
aflembly of the citizens, without having taken
the oaths to the Nation, the Laws, the King and the
Conflitution. Monsieur the King's brother has
iubfcribed the Register and taken the oath, a
complimentary address was made to him by a de
putation of thediftriifl of Carmes,which prefent
edthe register, to which he made a reply exprefl
ing his patriotic sentiments on the occafxon. A
very refpeAful address was also made to the
Queen, by the president of the deputation of the
National Afleinbly, the evening of the 4th, when
they waited on their majesties to present the
thanks of the Aflembly,to which the £>ueen made
a gracious reply.
The cogi'tiuns of Paris have voted " That the
" King's fpcech* of the 4th inft.to the National
" Afleinbly (hall be engraven in brafi, and fixed
" under his bull in the Hotel de Ville, to Irani
" mit to the remotest posterity his Majesty's pa
" ternal sentiments, and the date of the gieateft
** benefit he could procure for his people by
" adopting the Conllitution, whkh fecuies their
" liberty. * See Gaz. No. 109.
This municipal body moreover resolved to re
turn solemn thanks to the Deity, for this event,
and fay Te Deuiu in the Cathedral church, to
which the National Aflembly were invited to as
sist at the ceremonies 011 the occalion, the deputa
tion for that purpose was headed by M. Bailly—
The Aflembly acquiesced in the request.
In order to concur with the uieafares of the
l, the National Aflembly resumed the project
n Address to the provinces, which had been
>4 tLne iince voted, and referred :o the com
ridpe of confticution. The Bi(hopof Autun.one
*f that committee, and who had drafted the ad
drels, read it the day before yeSterday ; it was
read a second time yeSterday, and adopted after
a considerable opposition, by the oppo(ite party
speech of the BiShop of Autun on the oc
casion, in favor of the address, was highly patri
otic, and received with great marks of applause,
cfpecially when he spoke of the clergy, " the
clergy turned citizens, the clergy no longer so
rich as to excite envy, nor so poor as to hazard
contempt." In (peaking of the king, he obferv
«d, " 1 hat he was no longer surrounded by a
" corrupted court, which called itfelf the people.
" But that it was the people which now truly
" formed his court-
The appearance of the day before yesterday
confirmed this remark, when the King, with the
Queen and Dauphin went to visit the Foundling
Hospital. Instead of the imposing retinue, which
lince the haughty reign of Lewis XIV. had sepa
rated the king from his fubjeifts, whenever he
appeared in public, an immense concourse of
people followed their Majelties carriage, and
lhouts of long live the King, the Queen and the
Dauphin, resounded from every quarter.
An augmentation which the King of Sardinia
ordered in his troops, of i J men in the infantry,
and 10 men in the companies of cavalry, as also
the forming magazines and other military dispo
sitions in Savoy, lias occasioned considerable noise.
They write from Geneva that Baron de l'Epini,
resident from the court of Turin, in older to
quiet the apprehensions of that republic, and the
Pays de Vaud, has declared to the lefler council,
' That these armaments were for no other pur
•' pose, but to prevent the propagation of the
« commotions which agitate France, and the
« communication of the like popular inquietude
" to Savoy "
February ij
The grand queition refpecfting the future fate
of the Monadic orders»of France, was decided
the day before yesterday—The debates 011 the
occasion were very warm—The setting of the
National Alfembly was prolonged until 7 o'clock
in the "evening, when the following decree was
pafled. 1
" The National Aflembly decrees, as a consti
tutional article, that the law /hall no longer ac
knowledge as foleinti, the vows of perlons of ei
ther sex : and consequently declares, th4t the
religious orders and congregations in whichfuch
vows are made, are, and lhall renvain fupprefled
in France, and the celic lhall not be eftablilhed
again hereafter. All the individuals of either
sex at prefenc in the monasteries and religious
houses, may leave them, by making their decla
rations for that purpose to the municipality of
the place, and they lhall be immediately support
ed by a reasonable pension. Houses (hall like
■wrfe be appointed for the reception of such as do
not chose to avail themselves of this decree.
The National Aoembly moreover declares, that
no change shall take place lgr the prefeiit with
refpecft to houses charged with the care of pub
lic education, and charitable inllitutions, until
Tome measures are adopted oil this head. The
Nuns may remain inthehoufes in which they are
at present—the Aflembly expressly exempting
them from the decree, which obliges the monks
to unite the members of the several lioufes into
one.
The National Aflembly v. snt in proceflion 011
iunday the 14th in ft. to assist the Commons of
Paris at the Te Deum, at the church of Notre
Dame, on account of the proceedings of the 4th.
Detachments of the National infantry and caval
ry, preceded and closed the march—from break
of day until their arrival, the national soldiery
lined the streets, and presented their anns as the
representatives of the Nation palled through, who
entered the church amidst the music of drums
and trumpets, firing of cannon and ringing of
bells.—They were preceded by a deputation of
the Commons, lead by tlier Mayor. The Abbe
Mulot, a regular canon of St. VitTtor, had the ho*
nor to compliment them in the name of the Com*
mons, of whom he has been president. Te De
um was performed by a numerous orchestra*
coinpofed of the ablest matters. There was age -
neral illumination in the evening, and the Hotel
de Ville was diftinguiflied by its^magnificence.
HAMBURG, Feb. 14.
The accounts refpecting.tlie negociations for
peace, between the Empress and the Turks,
which were said to be continued at Jafly or
Hufch, a castle at some distance from the capital
of Moldavia, are absolutely contradictory. The
following intelligence may be relied on as au
thentic.
The Effendi who came to Hufch to treat about
peace, has been recalled. Before his departure,
he waited 011 Prince Potemkin, who pafled some
spirited remarks on the conduct of the Porte,
" That the Empress would no longer consider
" lierfelf bound by her offer to content herfelf
" with Oczakow and the Crimea, and trusted
" with the blefling of God to convince the Di
" van ofits imprudence, in rejecting her mode
" rate and equitable propositions " At the in
terview, he kept the Effendi standing, having
previously ordered all the chairs and ibphas out
of the room.
BRABANTINE REVOLUTION.
Extrafl of a litter from Brt/Jfelt of the I th of Ft 6.
The meetings of the Aitembly of the Nation
in this city, are very tumultuous—great objecti
ons are made to the committee of Breda—and
severe remonstrances are made against the usur
pation of the sovereignty by the Nobles and Ec
cleliaftics. Both parties are alfiduoufly at
work, the one to consolidate their pofleflion
of the sovereignty, the other to overset this
edifice of perlional grandeur. A letter from
the Abbe Leempoel at the Hague, profeflor of
logic in theuniverfity ofLouvain, has been print
ed and industriously circulated, which declares
that the three powers which promise to favor our
revolution, will give no assistance in cafe of ne
celfity, if the least alteration is attempted against
the plan of government, prescribed by the com
mittee of Breda. The subject of this letter has
been severely handled by the opposite party, in
the meeting? of the Aflembly, and is considered
as a political stratagem, concerted by the authors
of the opposite fyfteni. Mr. Henry Vander
Noot has in vain attempted to exert his credit
and influei.ee, as piime minister of the admini
stration, to calm this ferment, by offering to the
affbeiates of the five fermens, another form of an
oatli, which he hoped every one would be falisfied
■with, and take without scruple. This offer did not
succeed. The connection with foreigners contri
butes to disturb people's minds. More than one
commiflary, or emissary from the neighbouring
powers, reside at Bruflels. They are publickly
named, one of whom has rendered eflential ser
vices to the committee of Breda. Count de la
Marck has returned from Paris, it is he, and not
his brother, the Duke d'Ahremberg, who can
manage the Belgian affairs in Francc. The se
cond this family is not only at Bruflels, but
gave the 14th inft. a splendid entertainment, as
chief of all the fermens, to the officers of that bo
dy and the volunteer companies, confiding of
240 covers. " Every one admires the invincible
" devotion (faysone of the public prints) of this
" respectable house—and the names ofd'Ahrem
" berg and d'Urfel will be forever engraved in
" the hearts of the Belgians." The report that
this last nobleman had refuined liis place as pre
sident of the war department, is not true, he still
withdraws from the management of public af
fairs, and is not the only person who is discon
tented with the appointment of Baron Schon
field to the command of the foreign troops in the
Belgian service. To be continued.
A curious Anecdote of two Negroes in France.
IN the moll flourilhing period of the reign of
Lewis XIV. two negro youths, the foils of a
prince,being brought to the Court of France, the
kingappointed a jesuit toinftru<ftthemin letters,
and in the christian religion ; and gave to each of
500
the in a commiifton ii\ his guards. The elder, -who
was remarkable for his candour and ingenuity
made great improvements, more particularly in
the doctrines of" religion. A brutal officer, upon
some dispute, insulted him with a blow.' The
gallant youth never so much as offered to refew,
ic. A person, who was his friend, took an oppor
tunity to talk with him that evening alone upon
his behaviour, which he told him was too tame
especially in a soldier. Is there, then, said the
young African, one revelation forfoldiers and an
other for merchants and gownmen ? The gaoj
father, to whom I owe all my knowledge, has
earneltly inculcated forgivenel's of injuries tome ;
alluring me, that a christian was by no means tu
retaliate abules of any kind. The good father
replied his friend, may fit you for a monastery
by his leflons, but never for the army and the
rules of a court. In a word, continued he, ifyou
do not call the colonel to ail account, you willbo
branded with the infamy of cowardice, and have
your commission taken from you. I would fain
answered the youngman, a (ft confidently in eve
ry thing : But since you press me with thatveeard
to my honor which you have always (hewn, ] wj|J
wipe off so foul a stain ; though I must own I
ried in it before. Immediately upon this hede
lired his friend to go from him, and appointee
aggreflor to mefct him early in the morning,
cordingly they met and fought ; and the brave
youth disarmed his adversary, and forced him to
ajk his pardon publicly. This done, the next
day he threw up his commilfion, and desired the
king's leave to return to his father. At parting,
he embraced his brother and his friend, with
tears in his eyes, faying, " He did not imagine
the Christians were such unaccountable people;
and that he could not apprehend their faith was
of any use to tliem, if it did not influence their
p: aftice. In my country, we think it no dilho
nor to adl according to the principles of our re
ligion."
Bethlehem Stages.
THE great number of Miflts, who from the banks the Dela.
waie East ward, even to Boston, are now at the young ladies
Academy at Bethlehem, renders some regular, convenient and
cheap mode of conveyance between that town and New Yoikne
cefTary. To accommodate parents who "have daughters atthatflou
rifhing Acaderrty, an.d others who may with to vifct that pleafirig
romantic hill, the fubfeiibers are now running stages, which will
continue duriug the between Elizabeth Town Point and
Bethlehem. At tach of tlwHe placcs a stage will start every Mou
day and Thursday morning at 5 o'clock, meet at Covenhovcn'»
tavern the fame evening, exchange pafftngers, and the next day
return.
Fare of each passenger from Town Point to Bethif*
hem 3 dollars—way paflengert 4<i pe\~ mile-—lsolb. of baggage
the fame as a paffeugcr. Packages and letters will be received ;„d
delivered at Mrs. Winant's, White hall, where feats may be ta
ken—carriage of a letter 3d—l4lb. of baggage allowed 10 each
pafTcnger.
To accomodate those who may wifli to take Bethlehem ia their
route in journeying between the Eaftem and Southern ilatts, a
flagc will constantly run between Bethlehem and Philadelphia,
flaiting at Bethlehem every Monday morniog.
WILLIAM CRANE.
FREDERICK BEUTEL.
May 19.
§ CONTINENTAL £
c AND c
STATE SECURITIES, <S
-» BOUGHT AND SOLD, ~
y AT NO. 196. WATER-STREET. ft
r (fT A generous price will be given, for Military Rights of Land r
y and Jersey Paper Money. May 4. v
ASH, and a generous price given for CoOU'
ncntal, Ncw-Hampftiire, MafTachufetu, and Rliod»I(W
feCuritics, of every <'enominatioil, by
EBENEZER THAYER, jun. No. 39, tftkr-SM.
New-Yoik, April 17,1790.
WANTED Immediately, a Man as an Ostler, or»e that is
sober and can be well recommended, will meet with en
couragement, and find Ready employment, by pplymg
Subscriber, ARCHER GIFFORD,
N. B. None but a sober perfbn, and one well recommendcd
need apply. Newark, May 29, 1790*'
To be LET, and poffejfion given immediately,
THE HOUSE No. 27, Front Street. A part of the FURNI*
TURE will be fold, on reasonable terms, to accommodate
the Tenant, if required. Apply on the premises.
7 *
TO be Sold, an elegant dwelling house, in every circuroftance
fitted for a gentleman with a large family, situated in a very
pleasant part of Elizabeth Town, Ncw»Jcrfey.——-"The lot con
tains abont four acres, on which is a very good garden, arid a
variety of the best fruit trees. The terms of payment can be made
1 o easy as to suit the purchaser. Enquire of the Subscriber at No.
12, Wall-Street. ELIAS BOUDINOT.
June?, 179°.
The Mail Diligence,
LFOR PHILADELPHIA, ■
EAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten miftuteft
Eight o'clock every morning cxcept Sunday.
Stage OtfUr, City Tavern. >
. Broad-Way, New-Ytrk June 5,1790. J
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, near the
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kinds ofPUBLICK
SECURITIES— BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c. as usual.
Ncw-YirA, Aprils, 1750. *tf.