PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY #)HN FEN NO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK.
[No. 22, if Vol. ll.j
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ADDRESS of the NATIONAL ASSEMBLY to the
PEOPLE of FRANCE.
February nth, 1790.
DURING the progrefsof their labors, the Na
tional Afl'embly receives from all quarters
the congratulation of the provinces, cities, and
communities, the teftlmonies of the public joy,
the acclamations of gratitude ; but it likewise
hears the murmurs, the clamors ofthofe who fee)
hurt or affiifted at the measures taken against
iintnberlefs abufes,intei efts and prejudices. While
engaged in providing for the happiness of all, it
concerns itfelf with the misfortunes ofindividuals
—it pardons prejudice—spite and injultice—but
it conliders it as a duty, to guard you against the
influences of calumny, and to deitroy the vain
terrors with which you are attempted to be sur
prised. What measures have not been taken to
mislead you—to snake your confidence ?—Some
pretend to be ignorant, and ask what good has
the National Aflembly done > We will remind
you. Difficulties have been thrown in the way
of what has been done, which we will answer.—
Doubts have been circulated, uneasiness has been
excited refpedting what will be done. \\ c aie
going to inform you.
What has the Afiemhly clone ? It has traced
with a firm hand, in the midst of fyftnas, the prin
ciples of aConfticution, which secures liberty for
ever. The rights of nun were forgotten—infill -
ed for have been re-established, in
favor of humanity, by that declaration which will
forever be the signal to rally against oppreihon,
r.nd the law of the legislators themselves. The
nation had loft the right of decreeing both laws
and imposts—This right has been restored to it—
and the trite principles of the Monarchy, the in
violability of the august Chief of the nation, and
the inheritance of the throne in a family, lo dear
tQ every Frenchman, have been, at the lame time
consecrated. Wc only ha 1 the States Central,—
You now have a National , which cannot
be raviffied from you. Orders, divided by necelii
ty and fubjecft to ancient pretentions, heretofore
dictated decrees, and could reltrain the Springs of
the national will—These orders exist no longer—
every thing has disappeared before the honorable
diftiu&ion of citizen.
Every one having become a citizen, it was necel
farv to have citizens for your defenders—and at
t he" "firft filial we have seen the National Guardaf
fembled by patriotism, and commanded by honor
every where maintains or restores order, and
watches with indefatigable Seal over the feennty
e ich, for the interest of the whale.
'unumerable privileges, irreconciliaWe ene
cs to the public good, com]iofed the whole of our
üblic rights : They are destroyed, and at the
voiceofyourAflbmbly, the Province mod jealous
of theirs, have applauded their fall—they have
pcrceived themselves enriched by their lols—-a
vexatious feudal system, so powerful even in its
latest ruins, fprcad over all France. You were
fubjefted in the Provinces, to the regimen of an
unquiet adininiftration,from which you have been
i«lieved—arbitrary orders, which encroached 011
the liberty of the citizens are annihilated.
You wsfhed for a com pleat organization of the
municipalities: This hasjuft been given to you,
and the creation ofall thelehodies,framed by your
j'ufrrages, presents at this moment, a 1110 ft linking
Spectacle throughout France. Ihe National Ai
fembly has. at the fame time, # coi>fuinmated the
work of a new division of the kingdom,which alone
can efface the last traces of ancient prejudices
substitute the true love of our count'y in the place
of the felfifh love of a Province —lay the founda
tion of a good representation, and fixat the fame
time the lights of each man, and of each Canton,
in proportion as they are connected with the pub
lic—a difficult problem, the solution ot which
has remained unknown till our days.
For a long while you have wished for theabo
lition of the venality of the Magistracy: It lias
been pronounced. Yon experienced the want of
a reform, at le-aft of a provisional one, ot the pi 111-
cipal faults ofthe criminal code : It has been de
creed, until a general reform can be adopted.—
Complaints, demands, and claims have been ad
drefl'ed to ns from all quarters ot the kingdom
which we have Satisfied as far as it was in our pow
er. The multitude of public engagements terii
tied us : We have confccrated the principles, on
that faith which is due to them. Yoa feared the
SATURDAY, JUNE 26, 1790.
power of the Ministers : We have imposed a law
011 them, securing their responsibility. The im
port: of the Gabelie was odious to you : We have
mitigated ith) the,firft instance, and have pronii
fed to do it away intitefy—for it is not enough,
that Imports are indifpenfablj*. neceflary for the
public exigencies—they ought also to be juftifia
ble on account of their equality, their wisdom and
their mildness. Immoderate pensions, frequent
ly lavilhcd without the knowledge of your King,
ravished from you the fruks of your labors. We
have in the firft instance considered them with an
eye of severity, and we are about comprehend
ing them within the limits of ftriift justice. In
fhortthe finances required immense reformation
seconded by the Minister who has obtained your
confidence, we have labored at them without ces
sation, and you will soon enjoy the benefit.
j (To be continued.)
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.—^ —No. XII
Order is Heav'nsJirft law—and this confeft'd,
Some arc, and mujl be, greater than the reft :
More rich, more wife —But who infers from hence,
That such are happier, /hocks all common fevfe.
THE world is sensible of the neceiiity of sup
porting their favourites under the firlt on
fetts of misfortune —left the fall should bedread
ful and irrecoverable —for according to the great
Mailer of Nature,
'Ti* certain -reainefs, oncc fallrn oiil Willi fortune,
Must fall out with men too : What the declin d is
He shaN as soon read in the eyes of others,
As feel in hi* own till : For men, like butteiflies,
Shew not their inealy but to the summer ,
And not a man for being tingly man,
Ilath any honor ; but's honor'd tor those honors
That are \a ithout him, as place, riches, tavor,
Pm-as ot accident as oft merit.
Mankind are so sensible of these things, that by
a kind of inftinft or intuition, they generally sol ■
low the advice of the fame author.
Take the instant way
honor travel so narrow
Where one but goes abieaft : Keep then the path,
Foi l.mulation haih a thousand tons,
That one by one pursue ; if you give way,
Or hedgoatidc from the direst forth-right,
Like to an entci'd tide, they ali rush by,
And leave you hindmost ;
Or I ke a gallant horse, fall'n in firft rank,
Lie there tor pavement to the abject rcai,
OVrrun and trampled on.
The inference from all the contemplations and
experiments which have been made, by all na
tions, upon these difpofit.ions to imitation, emu
lation, and rivalry, is cxprefledby the fame great
teacher of morality and politics.
Degree being vizarded,
Th' unworthicfl (hews as fairly in the mafic. ,
The Heavens themselves, the Planets and this center,
Obfervc degree, priority and place,
Infilhire, course, proportion, fcafon, form,
Office and custom, in all line ot order :
And therefore is the glorious planet Sol,
In noble eminence, enthron'd and fpher'd
A mid ft the others; whose med'cinable eye
Corrects the ill afpe&s of planets evil,
And ports, like the commandment of a King
Sans check, to good and bad ; but when the planets
In evil mixture, to d.forder wander.
What plagues and what portents ! what mutiny -
What raging of the sea ! Shaking of earth !
Commotion in the winds ! 1 lights, changes, horrors,
Divert and crack, rend and deracinate,
The unity and married calm of dates
Quite from their iixure ? O, when degree is (hak d,
Which is the ladder to all high designs,
The enterprizeis Ack ! how could communities,
Degrees in fchoois, and brotherhoods in cities,
The primogeniture and due of birth,
Prerogative of age, crowns, sceptres, laurels,
But by degree, iland in authentic place ?
Take but degree awav ; untune that firing
And hark ! what discord follows ! each thing meets
In meer oppugnancy : the bounded waters
Should lift their bosoms, higher than the Ihores,
And make a fop, of all this solid globe :
Strength should be lord of imbcciiity,
And the rude son should strike Irs father dead :
Force ftiould be right ;or rather right and wrong
Should loose their names, and so OioulJ justice too.
Then everv thing includes itfelf in power,
Power into will, will inro appetite ;
And api eti:e an univerlal wolf,
Must make per force an univerlal prry,
And left qat up hmfelf.
This chaos, when aegree i: fuffocate
Follows the choaking,
The General's disdain d.
By him one step below : he by the next;
That next by him beneath : so every step
Examplcdby the firft pace, that is Tick
Of his fupenor, grows to an envious fever
Of pale and bloodless emulation.
Troy in our weakness stands, not in her ftrcngth.
Molt wifely hath Ulyfles here discovered
The Fever, whereof all our power is sick.
501
CONGRESS.
HOUSE Or REPRESEN TA ; IVES.
TUESDAY, MAY 2;.
Mr. Gerrv's motion the affvrrrption of the S*tdte <l-:bts y whic/i was
injzrted in this piper o) the 26* '?, under cons
(\lr. BOUDINOT's Speech concluded.)
'""INHERE is no connection between my debt agair.ft t!".e prrlon
X who may become my security to another, and the creditor
to whom I owe a debt of my own contracting—Stfppofe in coin
mon dealing A. owes B. 100!. but being unable to pay, C
(who owes him money) as his security to B.—Before the debt is
paid, C thef cuiity becomes insolvent, and A retrieve* his affairs
and is able to pay—would any man think A in his lenfcs, to rc
fuf» payme nt to B. because C. was unable to pay the debt due to
him. But it G. had paid the money to B. then thedebt was chang
ed and C. would have a right ro charge it ag3inft the debt he owed
to A. So, whenever the State has discharged a debt by
Congress, tothe indiidnal citizen, and has t'ie evid nee of it in
heftreafury, such Stace has no right to demand a repayment* 'til,
by the fcttiement of her accounts with the United Starts, it (hall
appear.that a balance is due to her. This is every day's practice
between man and man. But both the equity and policy of th ; s
measure have been denied. As to the firft, let it be a iked, are the
fads above set forth true, " that the debt was originally that of the
United S:a:er, an .1 that the creditor has never received any fatis
faCtion for it ?" If so, where is thejufticeor equity of making a
difcrimnation among our creditors ? Can any man assign a real >n,
I why debts of the fame nature, under the fame contract and for
the Gime fcrvices, (hould be n;e£ed and treated as of no force,
merely because they have been fettled and vouched by different of
ficer*, imder the fame authority. What will the veteran foidier
and the respeCtable ipilittaman, who, under ev.ry discourage
ment fouiht your battles, and nfqued their lives for your preser
vation. .it wt\\ the,pati iot farmer, who* Inrnifhed ypu w;th
Topples 1.1 the day i>*f cUrknefs and diltrefs —What will t!ie citi
zen. from whom you forced, perhaps that on which he depended
for the support of hirfamily, at the bayonet fay, when
they are told, that alt r waiting ten years in Vain for tlu.ir jult
it itnaw inequitable to pay their demand, because it was
fettled by tht government, agreeably to the directions of
Congr£is. # There Tliufc be the greatest equity in appropriating that
treasure, supplied b.y the union at large, tothe pa)meu£ of tito/e
debts contracted for their common dcfence. A fait argument I
(hall offer to ihew the equity of this measure is, that we are 111
jaofieflion of the very means from which alone the States could pay
thefedebts, if their obligation to it was ever so clear.
I now coineto the policy of the measure—As in private life, so
in every government, 1 am fully latisfied, that honcfty will ever
be found to be tTie best policy.
The policy of this meafdrc arises from numberless sources. —It
isfuppoiting t'be pybliC faith.—As-our present conduCl {hall be,
so will be the conduCl of others towards us, whenever we shall
need further loans for public lei vice—A tew hundred dollars sa
ved now, may heieafter cost us more thousands —Our condtiCfc on
this occaiion will be narrowly watched, and not forgotten in ma
ny years. — Good policy requires one uniform rule of paying our
public debt, as well as the like uniformity in the arrangment and
collection of the public revenue.—Another source of the policy of
this measure arises from the propriety of fupprefiing all tempta-
I tions to unneceflary party zeal and collision ot opposite interefls a
-1 mong the citizens of the fame government. Let gmtlemen con
i fider the operation of a contrary mtafurc.—Will the citizcns ot in-
I dividual States fee with complacency the produce of'fo heavy an
1 impofl, expended in partial payments of the debts of the general
government, while their demands, funded in the (In Cleft
are wholly disregarded by those who are bound to do equal justice
to evcrv citizen. It should not be forgotten, that the colleChon of
a revenue in such a country as oqrs, deprndsjgreatly upon opinion.
If, by our public measures, we once make it reputable to defraud
the revenue, it will be out of the power of all your regulations
and penalties to secure its due colleCtiqn. At present there is a u
niveifal prejudice in your favor. The patriotism of your citizens
is a greater fccuVity than your utmost force. They think that the
government is in their own hands.—That they are truly rcprcfcnt
cd here, and that theii contributions, are faithfully applied to their
best interests. Cherish this spirit, by the mod impartial jufticc
.ind equal dealings to every citizen. -If once it becomes a habit to
depart fiom the path of virtue, it will be more than difficult to
tread back those steps again. It is policy, to prevent by this
means, one State from pre)ing on the neceflities of another, by
which jraloufy, feuds and animosities. so dangerous to every go
vernment, are often promoted. Aliho' I am in general averse
from bringing into view on general questions, the local circum
ftancesof a particular State, yet in the present cafe, I beg leave to
hold up the circumstance of the State from which I have the honor
of coming, because I am best acquainted with her real situation.
It is well known to this committee, that in the beginning of the
war, she was deprived of many of her citizens, who went off to
the enemy. She prcfented her whole sea coafl as a frontier to the
British troops.—She was invaded every few months, for fcveral
years of the war.—Mer militia was almost continually in the field.
—Her towns were cleferted—Her houses were burned—Her pro
perty plundered, and her faithful citizens carried into captivity.—•
For several years, both the British and American armies were tile
greatest part of the year within her borders.—As if these evils
were not fufficient, at the end of the war, an import, for State pur
£ofes, was eftablifhcd by the two adjoining States, from whom
(he was obliged to receive all her imports, whereby (he was bled
at every pore. During this whole time, the req 111 fit ions of Con
gress were made on her, without any allowance for her peculiar
circumstances, the other States had fharcd a milder fate. As fai;
as it wasin her power, she complied faithfully with them—and
in addition to her exertions, she has relieved the diftrelTes of her
citizc ns, by paying the intercft due to them from the government,
without refpiCl to the species of debt. In this manner, (he has
draggled with difficulty, nnder anopprcflive burthen, 'til the pe
riod arrived" which she thought, proimfed an alleviation to her
di ft rcfTcs,
The ability of the new government, (he fondly hoped would
have eased the burthen, and calmed the minds of her citizens, who
were daily leaving the State to find a happier cliipate to the north
ward and the westward, where heavy taxation would not reach
them. I hold up these circumstances of an individual State, to
(hew that she cannot go much further; every citizen she looses,
leaves the incumbrance the greater on those who remain behind.
At this moment, fir, in one town(hip of that State, there are be
tween 2 and 300 cxecu.ions out for the arrears of Is it not
[Whole NO. 126.]policy then and the bed of portcy to equalize the h.irthens of so
arduous a itruggle as was brought upon us by ths late war, and
prevent a filler State from finking after getting through so far ?-—
Is there any reaion that after exerting her felt' to the utmost, and
aiding you in the day of didrefs, that now you are in polfelTijii
of the relources of the country, and (he is deprived of the only
means'fhe had of helping herfelf (I mean by her paper money)
that Ihe fhiuld Itili be left to druggie on without relief ?—But, lir,
if you reful'c this m-alure and do not realfume these debts, it rs not
contemplated by any one, to embrace the excise, but to leave that
to the individual Stares. What then mud be the fitu3tion of New-
Jersey, if New-York, and Pennsylvania should edablifh a general
cxcifc for the payment of their particular citizens? Would not
New-Jersey pay her full proportion, as die did formerly under
their imposts ? It never can be confident with good policy, thus
to leave your citizens to such different measures of public judice.
The last evidence of the policy of thi* measure arises from the
impofTibility of otherwise funding the domedic debt with cer
tainty, whiie the States are necefTitated to claim particular sour
ces of revenue. This mud prodirce aclafhing of jurifdi6tion,_ and
a continual jarring of intereds.
I fh juld now close mv argument fir, w£fc it not for an obje£tion
which I confefs when 1 fird heard it, druck me with some con
viction, but on a closer examination, I found not to bear a scru
tiny. It was, that if the measure could be carried by a very small
majority, it wdulrt be highly impolitic, because if a right measure
and now rejected, it could easily be adopted hereafter; but if a
Vrong measure and now a'dopted, it could not easily be remedied
•when the evil was acknowledged.
Sir, if thedebt is a jud one againd the United States, aivi we
are able to pay it, I cannot admit the idea of a longer reiulal—the
delay of jodice is a denial of judice—what would be the confe
rence of paying this debt and afterwards being convinced of the
injudice of it? You would charge it to the individual State, and
the only loss would be the intered of the intered you might pay —
But, fir, if you refufe it and find you are wrong, you are doing an
afct of palpable injudice by which you may ruin thou (and s of your
citizens and depopulate your States by driving the mod valuable
of thrm to seek an asylum in the wilds of the Ohio and Lake Erie.
Jt will be a very inefficient excuse to ouf differing hod of cre
ditors, that from local principles and private motives, there could
only be obtained a fmail majority to do them judice, and if we
■were wrong in the refufal, we could set all right when we were
convinced of it. I believe this will scarcely judify us in our own
eyes. But will not this delay impede the operation of the general
fydem—and if this once takes place, who can forcfec where it will
end. An attempt to do judice, can do us no cfiential injury even
if we should be wrong, but a refufal in our present circumdances
may raise a spirit, that cannot easily be layed.
Although the quedion, fir, before you is on the assumption of
the State debts, so called for fake of distinction, yet as an obic&ion
had been made inthe Houfeyedcrdav,and an endeavor used to se
parate this part of the domedic debt from that which is founded
on certificates given by the immediate officers of Congrcfs.j luppo
iing this to be a fubje£t efTentially different from the one referred
to the committee, I thought it my duty to fhrw that having been
contracted by the United States in Congress aflembled, for the ge
neral defence of the union, there remained no foundation in rcafon
or judice for the objettion, although the fetilements of the ac
counts, and the balances due, were certified by the individual
States. And I think that it mud as clearly appear that no solid
xeafon can be assigned, why the individual States should not now
be delivered from the burthen of them, since you have delivered
her from the means of payment.
These arguments address themselves to the undefrdanding and
the judgment.—lt is nndcr their impression, and from a thorough
convifiion of their force and propriety under every view ot the
subjeCt, that I have heretofore and shall dill give my vote for the
teairumption of these debts, and of course, in favor of the a
mendment now before the committer.
THE TABLET. -No. CXXVI.
(CONTI NUATION.)
" ]n a general may, it may be prefunud a lcgifla_
tor promote! the public good, by attending to the im
mediate interejl of his tonflituents
NO mail fliould be reproached for feeling
local attachments, or for fuff'ering his
mind to indulge a partiality for his friends and
acquaintance. This not only corresponds with
the impulles of nature, but may be compatible
■with the general welfare of the community. It
is very certain, if every person takes care of the
people of his own diftri«ft,*no portion of inhabi
tants will be neglected. There will however ex
id some difficulty in carrying this principle into
eifetft, even where it is jud ; and there are like
wise cases -which may be deemed exceptions to it.
If every legislator look to the immediate in
tered of the didriet he represents, it may be laid,
that the general interest will be effectually ascer
tained and promoted. The majority fliould and
will prevail, and the common welfare will be em
braced as perfectly, as though each man were ac
tuated by the molt fubliir.e sentiments of bene
volence. It amounts to the fame thing. The
tit mo It purity of intention, and the warmed glow
ofgencrofity could not more than recommend and
pursue the major intereds of the community;
and this will be done by acting upon the princi
ple now under difculGon. The difficulty, to
which I have before alluded, coniilts not so much
in the partiality a legislator feelsTOr his particular
con)'ituents, as in his notbeingable to determine
the bed manner of promoting their intered. If
he consults their opinion, it may prove a very dif
ferent tiling frotYi their welfare. The circuin
fances of a people often change foonerthan their
sentiments ; and the reason, upon which old ha
bits were originally formed, may be removed
while the habits themselves retain their force.
From this 1 infer that though a legislator may at.
tend ro the particular intered of his didricft, he
may sometimes be compelled to adt contrary to
their notions and wiihes. Besides it often hap
pens, that a law is enacted upon foine new occa
iion, about which the public mind has never exer
cised itfelf. In all fucli cases the legislator can
have 110 reference to any opinion previously ef
tabliflied among the people.
But there maybe cases where a representative
may ad; contrary to the direct iniereft of his dif
triift, l.>/owi"?/y, and wittingly. A certain part of
the community may Hand ill need of legislative aids
orgrants, which will be attended with .inieli snore
advantage to it, than will balance the inconven
ience fultained by the other puts of the commu
nity. To encourage and prote<slnew fettleu>ems>
or new arts and manufactures may not apportion
the benefits eqrvtUy among all clalies ot inhabi
tants in any country ; but a legislator may ltill
suppose himlelf juftiiiable in fa
vors of government, in a partial manner, on im
portant and lpecial occasions.
There is still another point of light in which
the fiibjetft of public opinion Hiaj be viewed.—
When a law is palled, if it meets with the general
concurrence of the public, it may be deemed an
evidence that it is founded in propriety, and will
be attended with utility. The public opinion
Ihould therefore be exercised upon a ineafure al -
ter it is put into operation, rather than while it
is in contemplation. It can try and prove the
law better tlxtn it can diredt its origin or paflage.
(To be continued.)
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATE:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THE SECOND SESSION.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fouith
of January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT for giving effedt to an A<sl, intituled,
" An A6t toeftablifh the Judicial Courts of the
United States,'* within the State of Rhode-
Island and Providence Plantations.
BE it enafledby the Senate and House of Representatives of the Uni
ted States of America in Congress ajjembkd, That\the ast, intitu
led, " An ast toeftablifh the Judicial Courts of the United States,"
shall have the like force and effect within the State of Rhode-
Island and Providqnce Plantations, as elsewhere within the United
Slates.
And bi it further enaßei % That the fa-id State shall be one diftrift.
to be called Rhode-Island diftrift : And there fhal] be a diftrift
court therein, to consist of one Judge, who shall reside in the dif
trift, and be called a diftrift Judge, and shall hold annually four
feflions ; the firft to commence on the firft Monday in August
next, and the other three feflions progrcflivelv,on the like Monday
of every third calendar month afterwards. The dated diftrift
Court held alternately at the towns of Newpon and Pro
vidence, beginning at the firft.
And be it further enacted, That the said drftrift (hall be, and the
fame is hereby annexed to the Eastern circuit : And there fliall
be held annually in the said diftrift,. two circuit courts ; the firft
feflion of the circuit court shall commence on the fourth day of
December next, the second feflion on the fourth day of June next,
and the subsequent felTions on the like days of every Decemberand
June afterwards, except when any of the days shall happen on a
Sunday, and then the feflion (ball commence on the day follow
ing : And the feflions of the said circuit courts shall be held alter
nately at the said towns of Newport and ProvidcHce, beginning at
thelaft.
And be it further enafled, That there shall be allowed tothe judge
of thefaid dillrift, the yearly compenfatloa of eight hundred dol
lars, to commence from his appointment, and to be paid at the
Treasury ofthe United States in quarterly payments
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, the United States.
and Prefidtnt of the Senate.
Approved, June the twenty third 1700
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefiient ofthe United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
t VIENNA, April 7.
HIS Majesty went in state yesterday, attended
by the whole body ef the Provincial Af>
fembly of Lower Austria, to the Cathedral church, j
and, at his return to the Palace he received, with '
great solemnity, the homage of the states, and
their oath of allegiance, which was pronounced
aloud by the whole aflembly. His Majeftv, in re
turn, exprefled his firm resolution to unite'in his
future government the principles of impartial jus
tice with the sentiments of paternal affection and
to maintain the Sates in the enjoyment of all their
rights and privileges.
LIEGE, April 27.
The whole nation is sit present under arras, in
defence of its liberty. Part of the Patriotic \r
my commanded by the Chevalier de Doineel
General in chief, began its march this day, in
order to defend the frontier on the fide of Stock
em and Mefeyck, where foine foreign troops are
cantoned with hostile intentions. The corps of
patriotic guards, the municipal regiment, the
the firft regiment in the pay of the States' the
companies of the citizens of the capital, and a
number of Bailiwicks, have been voluntarily
joined in their route by the inhabitants of the
town and open country, who will all arm in their
common defence. Yesterday evening the c»rps
of Chaileurs set off, the artillery will follow to
morrow, and the new troops will repair fuccef.
fively to the rendezvous appointed by the com
manders. The French Montois arrived here last
night, to the number of 3000, and wish to inarch
immediately. The religious houfc-j alfr, gir e
502
'ATES.
PUBLISHED
proofs of tlieir piniorifm by enter
taining these defendei s of tlieir property and ji
berty 111 Ute.beft manner they caiu*
HAMBDRGH, Marcli
By an authentic ttatenient from Copenhagen it
appears the DaniA army now consists of 52
rons of cavalry and 80 ,batialioiis of jnf»utry~
forming ,in the whole 85077 efftfiftive lntji, L'f
which 11,658 infantry and 520 liorfe are
garrisons, and the others «rde ied t« be kept
readiness to march. ,
PARIS, April 14.
The new Church for the Calvanifts, ntStrafour
(tliefhft they were permitted to ! uild in thiucitvf
was lately consecrated with great foleinnii-y Th
new Mayor, the Magistrates, the officers of
garrison, and the clergy of the three tliSerenc
persuasions, Catholics, Lutherans, and Ca]vj n ift s
preceded and followed by the National Guards'
went in proceHion toallilt at the ceremony_ a f [e '
having lung the Te Deutn at the Catholic Church'
1 hey proceeded thence to the Cathedral, where
they were received by the Protefhnt Clergy..,jj )e
octafional sermon was preached by one 'of t h e '
body, whole powers of eloquence and reafonino
were Co opprclhve, that, at the fame moment at
if actuated by one foul, the clergy and ma ' e ;.
Urates of the different fec r ts arol'e and inutallv
embraced; the reft of the congregation followed
their example, and audibly exchanged vows of
never ending fraternal amity.—lt was a scene
which superior beings might view with deliaht
—it was the triumph of true religion, enlighten
ed reason and humanity, over prejudice, igno
rance and error. Every eye gliftcucd with the
tear of sensibility, and every heait ratified the
bond of permanent union.
LONDON, .April 2.
THE present iituarion of the King of Bohemia
is truly deplorable. He has lolV, forever'
the Provinces of Austrian Flanders ; and they
were underltood to contain three millions of in
habitants, loyal, indurtrioos, and policing more
ready money than all the rell of his fulnefts uuc
together.
Jle has, indeed, acquired a large increase of
teTritory 011 the Turkifli frontiers bnt this cost
Joseph an enormous e-;pence, and the lives of at
least 15,000 men.
His finances are far exhausted.—Even at the
close of the difpute'abont the Bavarian (ncceffion,
the credit of Maria Thcrefa, was at its last gasp!
We 111 uft not like wife forget that the King of
Prussia is at the head of by iar the bell land ar
my in the- world—that he will be fupportedhy
the Elector of Saxony, and that he will not now
be (as his srreat predecellbr formerly was) en
tangled with a trench yiuiy, or any army of the
Empire.
The immortal Frederick affirmed, tliar he loft
the battle of Colin by the blunder of Manftein, a
general officer. Had he gained it, the deltrudi
on of tile houie of Aultria was regarded as the
certain consequence.
But the difemberinent of Flanderiv—the Turk
iffi war—the ruined (late of the Austrian t fu
•y the difafFe<ftion of the cledior of Saxony- nd
the prodigious augmentation of the powero 'ie
King of Prulfia—form at piefent a combin: a*
of the vnolt inauspicious circumstances ;an it
will be no matter of surprize, if in a few mon ■>
the kingdom of Bohemia happens to change
in after.
of a !ett:r from Stockholm, March I.
" Our King has prohibited the infertionof a
ny articles relpeifting the French revolution ii\
our newspapers ; the preamble to this prohibiti
on gives as a reason, that " His Majcfty owes
mark of refpecft to his brother of France, as
ffuch accounts are generally exaggerated and ill
•founded." No person here however, has any
idq# that the King of France ever hinted at a
wifli to prohibit, what he cannot prohibit in his
own kingdom.
I he King of Naples entertained some time ago
the Margrave of Anfpach Bareith, the Duchess
ot Saxe-Weymar, and the Hereditary Prince of
BrunUvick, with a wild boat hunt, at Caferta, in
which upwards .of 120 of those animals were
killed. '
A public school has been lately instituted at
Calcutta by the Kev. Dr. Mackiiinon, who loft
his military chaplaincy fotne time ago, in conle*
quence ot pecuniary embarrassments ; as nothing
was more wanted in those parts, the people are
likely to derive great public advantage from a
private evil.
Mr. Jonathan Hartop, an extraordinaryin
ftanee of longevity, is still living at Aldborough,
in Yorkshire. He is now 157 years old, being
born in 1653, and perfectly remembers the great
fire of London, in 1666.
It apj>ears to be a prevalent idea among the
best informed people, that the court of Spain,
dreading an infnrrediion on the principles which
have stirred up the rebellion in France, b as
thought it prudent to divert rhe attention of her
people from that purpose by a war with Gre;"*
Britain— the only generous enemy on whom
could rely, when peace was proclaimed, f<" a
just reliitution of what might be taken frojnh cr 'The Netherlands are in the great eft confufion
tfvery where ; the imprisonment of General Van
der Mcrfch has caused more tumult and discon
tent than can be imagined ; the majority of the
provinces of Flanders have declared, that if the
General is not delivered up to them in a little
time, they will proceed to Antwerp, and releale
liim by force of arms.
How far the Pruilian army has been encreafed
under the present King, is not exa<ftly known,
tut the world will soon be in pofleflion of the fUdt,
and probably be much surprised.
ij. The depredations committed on Monday
night at the masquerade, within the theatre, as
well as out of doors, disgraced eVen the idea of
magistracy, or any pretensions of civil rolice.
His Royal Highnels the Prince of Wales owPrved
a mafic, with the external appearance of a gentle
man, snatch a diamond pin, which proved to be
of 60 guineas value, from a gentleman's bread.
His Higlmeft immediately gave the alarm, and
one ofSir Sampson Wright's men was called in ;
but in the mean time the robber had made his
escape. At the door of the theatre a gang of at
least jo thieves attended, and publicly aflailed
the pallengers with the mod horrid violence ; one
party surrounded andclaiped their prey in their
arms, whilst the reft stripped them of their money
anfl even their buckles ; and, not contented with
this, they ripped their clothes, and left them al
nioft naked in theilreets.
Monf. Bailli the celebrated Mayor of Paris,is
not merely a patriot and politician. FJeisall'oa
man of learning and science, and has wrote anef
fay on a very dark fubjecfr, the antiquity of the in
dian astronomy. Ke has however lately laid these
Speculations on the flielf, in order to assist his coun
trymen in founding the balis of their constitutions
and liberties. A book being lately prel'ented to
him on the tune fubje<fl with his elliiv, requesting
his opinion, ( he replied, that he was at present too
much engaged with the Revolutions ofthis world,
to attend the revolutions of the liars.
AUGUSTA, (Georgia) May i,
WE can allure tlie public, fronj the best infor
mation, thatMr.M'GiliVray as late as the 6th
of April, was fully inclined to preserve peace
■with this state ; at the fanTe time it is lamented
in the natioiT that no pcrfon had been appointed
on the part of the Union to renew the negotiati
ons (as was expeisted)|this spring.
If such a measure should jiot be adopted by tbe
state or general government, it is niore than pro
bable the warriors will think the truce expired.
SAVANNAH, June 10.
In the afternoon of Wcdnefdav the 2d instant,
whillt people were tumbling' in the church at
Sunbury to hear the examination of ih* scholars
of the Academy, the building was struck by light
ning, which entering the church killed two
young men, named Cubbege and Cole, and a va
luable negro man belonging to Capt. Peacock,
named Peter.
GEORGE-TOWN, (Maryland) June 12.'
The Diitridt Court of the United States, for
the diftrift of Maryland, was opened on Tuesday
thq ill in<t. at the Court house in Baltimore, by
the Hon. Wll.i.iam Pac.a, Efq.who delivered an
excellent charge to the grand jiiry, of which the
following are the concluding ientences :
Having thus, gentlemen briefly stated the de
rivation of the authority of the court and your
4uty—the fuperiqrity of one general govertnent,
formed by the people, and solemnly confirmed
by them.—the neceflity of instituting courts of
admiralty and courts with exclnflvecriminal ju
riOikftion, to take cognizance of crimes and of-,
fences against the United States ; and having laid
before you a general state of the fubje<fts fg/r
your enquiry, 1 cannot part with you without ex.
pressing an ardent wish, that in your refpediive
counties and neighbourhoods, you would im
press upon your fellow citizens the important
duties of economy, sobriety and industry. The
supreme Being did not place man upon earth to
be a sauntering, unitnployed, unaccountable
creature. Your own reason and observation, and
the sacred scriptures, declare the contrary, and
unite in afiurances, that idlentis is the root of
all evil, and the bane of public and private hap
pinefs. The welfare and prosperity, the gran
deur and glory of these United States, depend
upon enlightened manners and habits, a manly
and vigorous exertion, and an animated industry.
With these sentiments, gentlemen, I difinift
yon to your deliberations—having a confidence
in the wisdom and justice with which you will
discharge your office." ,
In addition to the Emigrants from France to
the Western Territory, the Brig Mary, Captain
Punlop, arrived yesterday in this port, with
pafletigers for that settlement.
NEWBURYPORT, June 16.
Last Friday night, the dwelling-house of Capt. William Coombs
of this town, was burglariously entered, and many valuableartieics
liol.cn therefrom. To dctett such villains, a Fire-Soci£ty in the
town of Haverhill have a clause in their articles of agreement,
"which obliges the whole society, in cafe of a theft committed on
any memlfitr, immediately to repair to his house with their horses,
and there agree on the different roads which each (h<lU take in or
der tq appn l'.snd the thi«f and recover the property. Great ad
vantages, a fifing from this wife regulation, h-v - already repc?.ted
!y been experienced there ; and, unquestionably, this and other
towns, would soon be convinced ofthe utility of i'uch a regulation,
(hodld the several Fire-Societics fee fit to adopt it.
BOSTON, June 21.
GENERAL COURT OF MASSACHUSETTS
HOUSE OK REPRESENTATIVES,
Saturday, June 19th, A. M. .
The proceeded to the consideration ofthe
order of Senate of yesterday, fur appointing a
committee "to bring in a bill for the purpose of
suspending the operation of a(ft to rail'e a pub
lic revenue by excise, &c. and the quefti(*n being
taken, whether the house would concur with the
Hon. Senate in thefaid order, it paflfcd in the ne
gative, 1 jßjnembers being present, 46 only vo
ted in tlie —A motion was made and
(econded, that the said vote be reconsidered lb
far as the fubjedt lie open to debate on Tuesday
next, (to mvrroto,) and that the order of Senate
be committed in the mean* time ; and the quefti
011 being put, patted in the negative alio, 126
members being present,—Yeas, 59 only.
A motion was then made and feconcied, that a
committee be raised to bring in a bill to repeal
the excise law when Congress shall a flu me the
debt of the Commonwealth—andthe question be*
ing put, it was determined in the affirmative,
125 members being present—Yeas 72. Mr. Gard
ner, Mr.Breck, Mr. Wedgery, Mr. Bowdoin, and
Mr. ShurtlifF were then appointed on th at com
mittee and ordered to report on Monday next.
(This day.)
ACROSTIC. BY J LJDT.
On a celebrated BEAUTY, once much admired by the gallants of Confireft.
IVXy Love she does superior graces claim,
I n noble bosoms, fans a generous flame ;
S he's liberal, candid, unreferv'd and free,
S he's lov'd by Heroe'sof the firft degree.
L ike pure, refia&ing, spotless, mountain snows,
I n Alpine heights, where no rude footftep goes ;
B almv as zephyrs of Sabean groves,
Easy and a<;ile as the Stag that roves,
R ural as Auburn, on the village green )
T ripping elalbc round the ternal scene, >
Youth, truth and vigor, blended in her mien. )
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 23.
THE bill to regulate trade and intercourfewith the Indian tribes
was brought in the blanks were filled up.—A
motion was then made to re-commit the bill for the purpote of
ftrikmg out the 4th fc&ioo. After some debate the queftiou was
taicen, and negatived.
The bill was theu pasT; d.
Mi. Seney repotted a bill to fu'isfy the claims of
ativesof David Oold, deccafed, against the United States.
Mr. Gerry in behalf of the committee appointed to report a ca
talogue of books r»ecel{jry for the use of Congress, together with
the ex pence thereof, submitted the following report :
That, as far as the nature of the cafe will admit, they have in
the schedule annexed, complied with the order of the house, hav
ing due regard to the ftnte of the treasury.
That the committee have confined them selves, in a great mca
fure, to books neceflary for the use of the legiflativc and executive
departments, and not often to be found in private or in circula
ting libraries.
That, nevertheless, without farther provision of books on laws
and government, to which reference is often necessary, members
of the Icgiflatuie and other officers of government may be cither
deprived of the use of such books when neceflary, 01 be obliged
at every feflion, to tranfportto the feat of the general government
a confida-able part of their libraries; it I'eldom happening that
they can otherwifyommand such books when requisite, without
trelpalling too much on the indulgence of their friends.
The committee aretherefore of opinion,that a sum not exceeding
1000 dollars,be appropriated in the present fdlion,and that the sum
of 500 dollars be hereafter annually appropriated to the purchase
of books for a public library, and applied to the purpose by the
Vicc-Prefident,Chief Justice, and Secretary of State of the United
States, without confining thein to the catalogue reported until, in
the opinion of Congress, the books provided shall be adequate to
the purpose.
The books reported were of the following description, \iz.
Laws of the fcveral States.
Laws relating to the trade and navigation of the fcveral nations
of Europe with whom the United States may have treaties.
Laws of Ireland and Scotland. Laws of Canada.
Hritifh statutes at large. Militia system of Switzerland.
The Ruffian and Frederican Codes.
Sundry authors on the laws of nature and nations.
Sundry authors on the privilege and duties of diplomatic bodies.
A collection of Treaties and Alliances from the earlieil periods.
A collection of parliamentary books.
Sundry books on the civil and common law, &c. See.
A meltage was received from the President of the United States,
informing that he had approved of, and signed 4 an ast for extend
ing to Rhode-Island the judiciary fyftcm of the United States.'
The Hoofe went into a committee of the whole on the Ton
nage Bill.
On motion of Mr. Vining the second fe&ion was amended, so
as to exempt velTcls belonging to citizens of the United States,from
paying tonnage, in a port on the sea coaft,or a navigable river, ad
joining the State from whence they came. The Committee having
gone through the bill, rose and reported the fame. The bill
was then ordered to be engrolTed.
A message was received from the Senate informing, that they
had receded from their former amendments to the bill 4 for pro
viding the means of intercourse between the United States
foreign nations and had proposed other amendments.'
A report from the Secretary at War on several petitions referred
to him, was read.
The report of a committee on the petition of sundry inhabitants
of Long-Island, praying to be paid for supporting Americans who
were priloners in the late war, was referred to the Secretary of the
Treasury.—Adjourned.
THURSDAY, June 24.
The engrolTd bill iin poling duties on Ships or vessels was read,
and palled.—
The engrolTed bill for fatisfying the claims of the Representa
tives of David Gould deccafcd, was read the second time and or
dered to be engrolTed.
On motion of Mr. Hartley the report of the committee on the
memorial of the officers of the navy was taken into consideration
bv the commiuee of the whole—this report is as follow*
503
The committee report that they do not find any reafou fufficicnt
to juftify the difference that has been made in the compensation
of t-he Officers of the army and ofthe navy of the United States,
and are therefore of opinion, that a law ought to pass for granting
five years pay equal to the commutation of half pay, and also a
bounty of land to the officers of the navy upon the fame princi
ples and in the fame manner as has been granted to the Officer*
of the army of the United States.
A motion to agree to this report occasioned a Icnglhly debate in
the committee—the question taken it pafled 111 the negative
29 to 20—the committee then rose, and the chairman reported ac
cordingly.
It was moved that the report Should be recommitted, this moti
on was negatived, 31 to 22 —a motion for tlie report's lying 011 the
table was also negatived—and on the question whether the house
would accept the report of the committee of the whole houle, it
palfed in the affirmative ,to 22.
Mr. Steele presented the petition of John Bradlec which wss
read'and referred to the Secretary of the i'reafury.
Mr. Gerry of the committee of conference on the bill provid
ing the means of intercomfe between the United States and fo
reign nations presented a report, which was read ; tins report
proposes certain amendments to the bill; ioine oppofnion being
made to agreeing to them, and it beiug palt the ulual time ot ad
journment. further consideration ot the lime was puflponed
till to-morrow. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, JUNE 25
The report of the committee of conference on the amendments
to the bill providing ihe means of intercour.fe between the United
Stales and foreign nations, was taken into confederation.—The firft
amendment was to ftnke out 30 thousand, and to insert 40 thou
sand dollars.
It was moved that the house ftiould agree to this amendment ;
this motion was opposed.
It was said that the committee had exceeded thei»- commission
in proposing this alteration in the bill, as both houses had agreed in
the sum of 30,000 dollars—it was further laid that more than one
minister plenipotentiary was unnccelfary—that the court of Great-
Briiain had sent only a Consul to this country —and that from the
present appearances, no advantages could be expelled to aufo
from fending a minilter, equivalent to the expence ; the neceffiiy
contended for is merely conjectural—and by that rule the mini!-,
ters plenipotentiary may be encreafed, and one lent to Spam and
another to Portugal; if only one minister is sent to Europe, the
firft sum will be fufficient, with refpeft to the Court of London,
a Charge des affairs will probably answer every purpose.
In support of the motion it was urged that the President of the
United States is by the Constitution vested with the power of ap
pointing such foreign officers as he may N think necessary, and it
must devolve upon the legislature to make provifton for defraying
the expence. The Committee of conference did not rely on their
own judgment—they confultedthe Secretary of foreign atffirs ; his
opinion was that in the present (ltuation of this country with refptcf.
to foreign nation*, two ministers and two Charge des Affaires were
nece(Tary;a minister at the Court of Verfatlles :sgenerallyconcedcd
to be requisite ; the peculiar situation of this country with respeCt
to the polls, the Northern and Eastern frontiers and the state of
our commerce in refpeff to Great-Britain, can scarcely leave a
doubt of the neceflity and importance of fending a minister to
that country ; this being the State of affairs a less sum than that
propofeditis demonftrablv evident, will not be found adequate,
The question on concurring in this amendment was carried in
the affirmative.
The other amendments were agreed to, with amendments.
The House then took up the bill providing for the government
and regulation of seamen in the Merchant's service. This bhi
had been committed to a feleft committee, who reported on the
blanks, also iiindry amendments to the bill. These were several
ly read and agreed to. Other amendments were added—and the
bill was ordered to be engrossed.
In Comrrfittee of the whole House on the bill concerning the
trade and navigation of the United States.
This bill contains the discrimination in the duty on tonnage,
between veffcls belonging to nations in treaty with the United
States, and those of nations with whom no treaty exists.
A motion to postpone the bill ©ccafioned a lengthy debate,
which was not determined at 3 o'clock, when a motion wasmade
that the Committee should rife, and ask leave to fit again—this
was carried in the affirmative.
A meflage was received from the Senate, inforroig the House
that they have concurred in the amendments proposed to the
bill providingthe means of intercourse between the United States
and foreign nations. Also, that they havepaffed the bill for the
relief of Nathaniel Twining.
The Speaker communicated a letter from Samuel Meredith, Esq.
Treasurer of the United States, which enclosed the Treasury ac
counts for the last quarter. Adjourned.
NEW-YORK, JUNE 26, 1790.
We hear that a motion'made in the Senate of the United
States yeftcrday, to take into coniideration the bill for determin
ing the permanent and temporary feat of government, was nega
tived, 15 to 14. Monday is the time afligned to conliderthis fub
je&, by a former vote.
The Hon. Joseph Stanton, and the Hon. Theodore Foftcr, Sena
tors of the United States from the State of Rhode IHand, took their
feats in the Senate, yesterday.
In drawing lots for their refpeflive classes, Mr. Stanton drew
that (or four y arid Mr. Foster that for two years.
An intolerent spirit is the source of all the tyranny which now
does, or ever cid exi-ft ; for those who condemn, reproach and re
vile their neighbors, for holding different opinions from them
selves, would, if they poflefled the power,extirpate all who would
not fubferibe to their political creed.
It is infinitely eaficr to rai>, than to reason : Hence this is the
weapon u£ed by the ignorant, intereiled declaimers against govern
ment, and the administration thereof.
It is not a compliment to human nature to fay, that flimfy de
claimed often find more attention, than thole who reason f rom
experience and the fitnefs of things ; but it is a truth.
It may be a profitable enquiry, How many of those who amuse
the public by abusing "the Powers that be," speak the language
of Uie people ? The Volunteer of political Scribblers in the
United States may amount to about 60—fubtrading those who
are attuated by felf interest, how small the residue !
We hear that the application to the Legislature of Maflachufetts
for leave to erett a Theatre in the town of Boston has been nega
tived. *
The Convention of the Univerfalifts, so called, which latelv
met at Philadelphia, have publilhcd their Articles of in the
Federal Gazette.
We art informed that the sale of Tickets in the New York City
Lotttery, has been so favorable, that the managers are making
preparations to draw at the time appointed,
(pT Severalfavorsfrom our Cor rejpon dents mill be attended to as soon
as pojfible : The poetical EJJays Jigned 44 Savillon" and A, S. mill
kept under confederation.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK. '
Generous Friends, Gray, St. Johns, 10.
Brig Betsey, Wallace, St. Croix, 16.
Sloop Sally, Clark, Si. Johns, 9.
Charles, White, Norfolk," 4.
» , St. Euftatia/
Packet Galveftown, , Havanpahj isa'L AN ST AT fcD
"Z:UI Ct THE L'.yj! I D STATES.
nr. j in.
FROM THE LE2 DEN GAZETTE
Pubiiihcd hv Stephen I • / ac
FR ANK''OUT, February 1 7.
"JV/TAJOR Knobeliihiiif, who whs added by tlie
J.VJL Court cf Berlin, to Mr. tic Dietz, as minis
ter to the Porie mflsd through Augiburg the 3d
Inft.on his way to Constantinople. It is imagin
ed that this miniitsr intends to follow the Gl and
signior to the army, ihould he p'eriift in the de
iigli of heading his troops in person, the ensuing
campaign. A project which more recent ac
counts from Turkey mention to be laid aside,
least the übfence ot the l'overeign from the capi
tal ihould occaiion any troubles.
F. .trail oj a litter from Jafy,in Moldavia, of the 21th
of January.
Yelterday a courier arrived from Petertburgh,
who belides the important dispatches with wliich
he was charged, brought a crown and garland in
form of a laurel enriched with brilliants, a pre-
Jent from tlie Empress to Prince Potemkin, for
his eminent lei-vices. We understand that the
preparation? for war, which had in i'ome measure
abated, have been relumed "with frefli vigor, and
continue day and nighr. It is fuid that general
Sxjltikow who commanded in the Cuban, from
whence he returned to Petei fburg, is detlined to
replace general Mufcliin Pulchkin, in the com
mand of the army in Finland.
Parts accounts of the 18th of feb.
The civic ceremony which took place on Sun
day the 14th, has made the livclieft im'preflions
on all who assisted at it. The representatives of
the Commons, accompanied by 60 liandards ot
the National Guard, arrived at the church from
the Hotel de Ville, about the fame time with the
.National Aflembly, which was received at the
principal door by the Mayor of Paris, the depu
ties of the Commons and those of the chapter.
All the members were placed on teats raised in
the form of an amphitheatre. The Municipality
occupied the opposite fide. Low mass having
been celebrated on an altar, prepared in front
of the grates of the choir, the Abbe Mulot pro
nounced an oration suitable to the occalion,
which was very much applauded, after which
the civic oath was repeated.
Die civic oath continues to be taken with fur
>rifing promptitude and good will, in the capital
irid towns of the province. The Duke of Cliar
tres, aged 16 years, the Duke de Montpenfier,
and the Count de Beaujolois his brothers, sons of
the Duke of Orleans, came the 9th inlt. in a pa
triotic uniform, to the Afleinbly of thedirtritft of
St. Roch,and took the oath. The Duke of Char
ties, on taking the pen in his hand to sign his
name, obfervecl that all his titles were mentioned
in the reseller, dallied them out, and wrote in
their place, citizen of Paris. The Royal fill (ft i
oti to the different decrees of the National Aliem
bly is fucceflively published, either in forin of
leiters patent, or by proclamation. The letters
patents palled in the month of January, in con
sequence of the decree of the 30th of November,
" That the Iflaml of Corlica makes a part of the
empire of France," together with several other
decrees, have appeared with this fanc r tion. Let
ters from a great number of cities announce,that
the step of the King in corning to the National
Aflenibly, and his Majesty's Ipeech on that occa
llon, have produced thelivelielljoy. The speech
has been 1 ead over and ov£r, and applauded
with franfports ; and patriotism is anxiously en
gaged in expreiling its gratitude, by public acts
of tl'.anks and rejoicings. Troubled minds,llnce
this period are infenflbly reconciled ; and it is
hoped this event will be the means of re-elta
blifhing tranquility in the provinces which are
Itill dilturbed. It is more particularly in Quercy,
Perigotd and Lenioulin, where the peaf'ants have
committed the molt reprehenlible excellesagainlt
the Lords and proprietors of lands. In order to
put a flop to these disorders, the National Allem
bly palled the following decree, the 10th inlt.
" 1 he National Afl'embly being informed of tlie
" troubles in Quercy, Perigord and Lenioufm,
" have decreed, and do decree, lit. 1 hat the
" King fliall be requested to give immediately
" the neceflary orders to execute tlie decree of
" the 4th of Augult lalt, as far as it refpetfts the
" maintaining of public tranquility : sdly. That
<< the President (hall be charged to write to the
" municipalities where the troubles exilt, to tef
" tify I.ow much the Afl'embly is affedied with
•' these disorders, the continuance of which will
" oblige the executive power to employ the
" force which is at its command."
Extri.B of a letter from Paris, of Fek 19.
During the fefllon of tlie National Aliembly
the :6tli, when the definitive decree was palled
for the division of the kingdom into depart
ments, with an older to print the plan of it, a
memorial was sent from the King concerning the
violences committed by the people against the
commissioners of the farms at Beziers, without
the municipalities concurring with the comman
der of the ' troops to Yupprefs thel'e disorders.
The fame urcUmftanceJ having taken place in
fume other parts of the province, the Marquis tie
la Fayette, who came that <lay to the Afleinbly,
painted in very strong colours,, the evils which
France had to dread, it in order to Hatter the
people with a vain name of liberty, thole who
were charged with the support of order and pub
lic tranquility, ihould connive at these excefies.
At his instance, the committee of constitution
was charged to prepare a law 011 the 1 übjctit,
draft of which was read yesterday, and is print
ing; for the ufeof the members.
BRABANTiNE REVOLUTION.
Brussels intelligence of the 22d of keb.
After such a sudden revolution, the calm, ot
rather the stagnation which now prevails is aflo
nifhing—The fei ious indifpoiition of the Empe
ror may no doubt be afligned as a reason. 1 iie
Count Cobenzsl remains at Luxembourg, without
being able to exercise his fun<stion as pacific com
miliioner, unless it be in restoring affairs as far as
poflible on their ancient footing, to the latisfac
tion of the inhabitants of that province. It is
said that the proceflions and fraternities to which
the Belgic nation is much attached, have been re
eftabliflied there in all their splendor. The Au
ditor General, Orlandini, has arrived at Luxem
bourg from Vienna, to conducfl the trial of the
former minifler plenipotentiaries, Count de
Trauttmanfdorff and general d'Alton, for their
infeVplicable conduct, to which the success of the
malcontents is ascribed. In expectation that lie
could juflify himfelf personally before the Empe
ror, general d'Alton set out for Vienna ; but lie
had not yet arrived, when he received orders to
ret »rn, he went firft to Baden, and from thence
to ."reves, where it is said he has fallen lick.
Paper war is carried on with a great deal of
warmth between the oligarchical and patriotic
parties. The former employs the arms of religi
on, which fervesits purposes as well against the
democratic as it did against the Imperial innova
tions. Thc declaration of the Belgic people in fa
vor of the present constitution, has been sent to
| all the prieftt and curates, to have it signed by
every one of every sex, age and condition ; seve
ral ofthefe curates take it to their flocks, offering
the choice of signing it, or the lofsof every spi
ritual favor. An Srtithor of this party has pub
liflied a pamphlet entitled Truth, with the motto
Fiat Lux. Another of the opposite party has
publiihed one entitled Gri: vances oj the Brabatt
ti>ie<, wherein lie complains of the tardiness of
the present government, in securing the liberties
of the Belgians, and of ihe despotism exercised
in its n» ne, particularly of the power arrogated
by the Aflembly, known by the name of the pa
triotic committee, and which, notwithstanding the
name, traverses every convention and confer
ence of the people, opposed to its opinion. A
third, which places at its head neither too fa ft no'r
too flow, or an anfvier to the pretended patriotic ques
tions ; maintains, " That the present form of
" government cannot be permanent, because it
" has not been consecrated by any law, nor any
" tribunal, much lei's by the citizens afltmbled
" in a national capacity ; that neverthelels the
" fovercigniy belonging to the nation, the nati
" on ought to fix the mode of its government."
The system of this author has the advantage of
being supported by two of the mdft considerable
noblemen of the nation, Dukes d'Ahremberg and
d'Urfel. The firft ofthefe has openly avowed
its principles, by refufing, as chief of the fermens
and volunteer companies, to take the oath, un
less it is " to the nation, or the pover legally con
fiituted by it." A refufal wliofe example follow
ed by others, mult create great embarrassment to
the ncu fovcrcigns of Brabant. The province of
Flanders, without having altered the forms of
their conflitution, have taken the oath in the
name of the nation ; and to avoid the reproach
that has been cad on the Brabanters of conduct
ingtheir business with mystery, they have resolv
ed to communicate to the public, "by means of
the press, the result of their deliberations.
In the midfl of this diversity of opinions, which
involves our situation in great uncertainty, it is
matter of co-nfolation that the confederation will
be soon strengthened by theaccellion of the pro
vince of timbourg. The states of this Durchy
have been assembled at Kenri Chapelle for three
days together, the 9th, loth and nth inft. and
have decided to acknowledge that the Emperor's
sovereignty is at an end ; they have not hitherto
published the Brabantine vianifeflo in their pro
vince ; but in consequence of the above refblu
tion, they have appointed deputies to make fur
ther arrangements with the states of Brabant.
These deputies are the Abbe de Rolduc, Count
Hoen Neuf Chateau, formerly envoy from the
committee of Breda to the Court of Berlin, and
M. de l'Aflanlt. The justiciary order has been
re-eltablilhed in the pi ovince, "as it existed before
the month of April 1757. Consequently the new
sovereign council of Linibourg ceases.
I The Bruflels Gazette of this day assures, that
two camps of French troops are about being
formed, one in Flanders, the other at Givet ;
and that four regiments of cavalry have orders'
to rendezvous at Lillo.
(7 3 b; continued.)
504
riIOPOSALS,
Fo: pnn:iit s ; '>>\i Sl-FhCK I P {"lON, on a fine v-'ith s. new
and fk-cant American inter, cad by John Baini, and Co
T RAVE iS
Tiiroug'.i North "i<l South-Carolina, Cniraia,[.jJfavit'H'iJl Florida. j!, c
■ Cherokee Nations, through the extenjive Territories of the k[v[' c .
■ guides', or Cr;ek Cei'jtticmiy, and the country of the Cwc/taif:
COKTAINI NO
\ N Account of the foil and naimal produSions of thofc.rr.
i.X gions, topalio- with oblnvatioiis on the tn»oncrsand.ciii'-
toms of the Indians.
By William Ba.uh.im, Botanist, of Philadelphia, w'r,„
was employ.d from 177.3 to i l7h byihe cckbrattd Dr.
o! London) to explore inc exu.ilivc co intrici abovt-memionwi'
' //n:n rri/in'f '
„(V EDITIONS.
I. It is exp Tied the work will contain between five
hundred paz sot letter press, carefully executed, price to fuh'l
bers iwoSp«nilh milled dollars, in an handlome oCtavo voium
neatly Mhnd and lettered.
11. Whenever names are obtained for two hundred copies
the work will be put to press.
111. The work will be interspersed with fix or ciplu eWant
copperplates, descriptive of the plants, animals, &e. peculiar to\h*
countries through which the writer travelled, the bull of the Ion?
warrior Micho-chlucco, chief or gr at king ot the Siminolcs
Lower Creeks, executed in a masterly manner, will be given is ~
hontifpicce.
IV. Every fubfcribcr for twelve copies, Hi,ill be entitled to a
thirteenth gratis.
Subscriptions are received bv James and Johnson, the printers
Philadelphia. And by the principal punters and book-fellers on
the Con] ncil
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, tor the purpofcof railing Seven Thou.
Jar.d free Hundred Pouyds, agrcablc to an ACT of (he Le<nfl 3 ,
♦tire of the State of New-York, pafled Bth February. 1790°
s c
1 PRIZE of
3
10
3°
5°
120
180
795°
Si±6 Prizes, ) t' • » . , /•
166*4 BUnks, J ®5 0C0 T.ctets, at 4 o 5 . each, £.50000
Subject to a deduction of Fifteen per Cent.
THEobjeft of this LOTTERY being to raise a part ofthefum
advanced by the corporation for repairing and enlarging the CI
TY HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, which dors
so much honor to the Architect, as well as credit to the city. The
managers presume that their fellow Citizens will cheerfully con
cur in promoting the sale of Ti< kets, eloecially as the success of
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, which must othewife
be laid to reimburfethe corporation.
The above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very beneficial
to adven'.ureis,there not being two blanks to a priac.
The Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the First
Monday in August next, or sooner if filled, of whichtimel)
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers will be pub
lifbed at the expiration ot the drawing.
Tickets *oiicX*U.-h\t-the fubferibers, who are appointed
Managers by the Coipor^tior
ISAAC St OUT E.N BURGH, ABRAHAM HkRHKC,
Peter T. Curtinius, John PiNTAro.
A T ew-)'ork, 6MAf»! r cA,i7go.
ADVERT IEMENT..
BY order of the honorable John Slofs Hobart Efquiie, oneoi
the Justices of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State
of New-York. Notice is heieby given to Paul Deyrell.now or
l.ite of l ong Island, Esquire, an abfeonding debter, and to all
others whom it may concern; that upon application aid due
proof, made to the laid Justice, pursuant to an ast of the legisla
ture, entitled 14 an ast for relief against abfeonding and absent
debtors," palled the fourth day of April, 1786, by a credi or of
the said Paul Dcyrell, he the said Justice has direifttd all his the
laid Paul DeyrelPs Estate, re.il and personal, within th's State, to
be fcized ; and that unless he (ball discharge his debts within three
months after the publication of this notice ; all his£ftatfc real and
personal will be fold for the payment and fatisfa&ion of his cre
ditors. Dated at the city ot New-York, the twenty-feventl •iy
of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand icven hun 1
and ninety. March 31. lawgm.
Py Order of the Honorable Richard Morris, EJq. Ckiej J ujlict of 1
State of New-York.
NOTICE is hereby given to LewisM'Donald, of Connect.ci.
an absent debtor, that upon application and due proof ma fir
to tfie said chief justice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Donuld,
pursuant to au ast of the Legislature of the said Stare, entitled,
44 An ast for relief against abfeonding and absent debtors, p a -
fed the 4th April, 1786 ; he, the said chief justice, has direaed
all the said Lewis McDonalds estate, within this Hate, to be laz
ed, and that ufilcfs he (hall discharge his debts within twe vc
months after the publication of this notice, the fame v. 11 he sol
for the payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d May, • ,9°*
New-York, May 7, 1750. (1
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 1871 Water-Street, near the
Fly-Market, ..
WHERE they negociate all kinds of PUBLIC v
SECURITIES-BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c. asufual.
New-York, Aprils, 1790. *tf.
The Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA, ,
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at Newark, Ten minutes aiw
o'clock every morning except Sunday.
Stage Office, City Tavern, J
Broad-Way, New-York June 5, jiygo. >
To be LET, and pojfejion given immediately,
THE HOUSE No. 27, Front Street. A part of the fURN' "
TURE will be fold, on reafonatole terms, to acconimo
the Tenant, if required. Apply on the premises.
June 12, 1790.
CASH, and a generous price given for
ncntal, New-Hamplhire, MalTachufeus, and Rhode
fecuritics, of every denomination, by
EBENEZER THAYER, jun. No. 59, " aier "
New-Yotk, April 17, 1790.
. (tT WANTED No. 73 and 83 of this fafer-SixftM <« A ""
b * paid for them by the Editor.
H E M E.
1.3000
1000
500
200
ICO
50
20
to
4
£ 3"°o
2000
1,500
2000
3 c °o
2,500
' P4CO
1800
31800