'.i.
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 41', BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. iJ, cf Vol. H-j
discourses on davila.
No. VIII.
This mournful truth is every where C"Ofefs'd,
Shw rip Worth by Poverty dtpreM.
IF we attempt to analize our ideas, still fui ther,
upon this lubje<3;,we Ihall find,that the expressi
ons we have hitherto used, attention, confideratton
and congratulation, comprehend with fufficient ac
curacy, the; genera] obje<£ ot Jie parfiori fordii
tin&iob, in the greater part of mankind. Theie
are not a few, from him who burned a temple
to the multitudes who plunge into low debauch
ery, who deliberately seek it by crimes and vi
ces. The greater number, however, search tor
it neither by vices nor virtues: But by the means
which, common sense and every dav's experience
fliows, are most sure to obtain it; by riches, by
family records, by play, and other frivolous pet
fonal accomplishments. But there are a few, and
God knows but a few, who aim at something more:
They aim at approbation as well as attention •,
at efteern as well as consideration: And at admi
ration and gratitude, as well as congratulation.
Admiration is indeed the complete idea of appro
bation, congratulation and wonder united. This
last description ofperfons is the tribe out of which
proceeds your patriots and heroes, and molt of
the great benefadiors to mankind. But for our
humiliation, we must still remember, that even
in these esteemed, beloved and adored characters,
the passion, altho refined by the purest moral sen
timents, and intended to be governed by the belt
principles, is a passion itill: And thercfoie, like
.all other human desires, unlimited and inlatiable,
No man was ever contented with any given ihare
of this human adoration. WhenCaefar declared
that he had lived enough to glory might
deceive he did not deceive the world,
who saw his declaration contradicted by every
a&ion of his fubfequenr life. Man conftaiuly
craves for more, even when Tie has 110 rival :
Eu: wicn lie fees 2»;other pofieflcd of more, or
drawing a way from liiuifelf a part of what he
'had, he feels a mortification, arising from the
loss of a good he thought his own : llis delire is
disappointed: The pain of a want unfatisfied, is
increased by a resentment of an injullice as he
thinks it: He accuses his rival of a thek or rob
bery, and the public of taking away, what was
his property, and giving it to another. These
feelings and refentuients, are but other names For
jealousy and envy; and altogether they produce
some ofthekeeneft and molt tormenting of all
sentiments. These fermentations of the paflions
are so common and so well known, that the peo
ple generally presume, that a person in such cir
camltances, is deprived of his judgment, if not
of his veracity ana reason. It is too generally a
fufficient answer to any complaint; to any ladi
alledged ; or argument advanced, to fay that it
comes from adifappoiuted man.
There is a voice within us, which seems to in
timate, that real merit (hould govern the world :
And that men ought to be refpedleS only in pro
portion to their talents, virtues and services.
But the question always has been, how can this
arrangement be accomplished ? How fiiall the
men of merit be discovered How ihall the pro
portions of mer.it be afcerrafiued and graduated ?
•Who (hall be the judge ? When the government
of a great nation is in queflion, ihall the whole
nation choose ? Will such a choice be better than
chance.' Shall the Whole nation vote for Senators !
Thirty millions of votes, for example, for each
Senator in France ! It is obvious that this would
l>e a lottery of millions of blanks to one prize,
and that the chance of having wisdom and integ
rity in a Senator by hereditary defcenpwould be
fUr better. There is no individual personally
known to an hundredth part of the Ration. ■ The
voters then mull be exposed to deception, from
intrigues and manoeuvres, without number, that
is to fav, from all the chicanery, impostures and
fajfhoods imaginable, witlifcarce a polfibility of
. prefering real merit. Will you divide the nation
into diftridts, and let each diftridt choose a Sena
tor ? This is giving up the idea of merit, and an
nexing the lionor and the trust to an accident,
that of living on a particular spot. An hundred
or a thousand men of the firft merit in a nation
may live in one city ; and all of thisdei
cription in feve*al whoje provinces. Real -merit
is so remote from the knowledge of whole nati
ons, that were magistrates to be chosen by that
criterion alone, and by, an universal fuffrage,
difTeiuipns and venality would be endless. The
4ifficplbies. arising from this source are so obvious
and uiiivecfctl/ that nations have tried all forts
of expesimcEts to avoid them. (To bt continued.)
»«r<awr.-.
E D E N T O N, May 8.
Copy of a litter from a gentlevi.ui in N:v> Tork, to
his jriend in Virginia.
New-York April 14, 1790.
LAST Monday Mr. Sedgwick delivered a fu
neral oration on the death of Miss Aftimpti
on. When this child was born, although her
mother only went leven m<>.. v i h her, ihe was
proniifing indeed—was uncommonly large, ap
peared healthy, could lisp Papa and Mama, dis
played a good let of teeth, and could bite a crust
of bread—was fond of jnolaffes, and her princi
pal food was cod's head—her voluptuous manner
of liv'lls caused hecto outgrow her age —Ihe was
seized with a consumption, which carried her oft
last Monday.
Her death was much lamented by her parents
who were from New-England. Mr. Sedgwick
being the most celebrated preacher was requelted
to deliver her funeral eulogium.—lt was done
with puritahic gravity. This orator being man
ly and grave, and the language being alternately
threatning and soothing, caused unusual sensa
tions—a pause ensued—her southern relations
bore the loss with fortitude (except her aunt South -
Carolina) refleifting, that if she had grown to
womanhood, that her diforuer might have been
contagious, and a general consumption in the
j family the consequence,
Sixty-one of the political fathers of the natron
were prelent, and a crouded audience of weepers
and rejoicevs.—Mrs. Speculator was the chief
mourner, and aifted her part to admiration : She
being the mother of Mils Assumption, who was
the hope of her family, the picture of herfelf,
and her youngest child. Twenty-nine of the
political fathers cried out aloud—Thirty one
bore the loss with manly fortitude, being in fnll
hope of a glorious. rel'urreCtion, when (lie might
appear again in angelic ihape and virgin inno
cence, unattended by any monstrous appendage.
Her near r !;ui?r. faprttr t '• id a prema
ture death, and intend to'tty their magic art to
raise her from the dead ; but as the days of witch
craft are over, and its presumable they have not"*
fupernatnral powers, it is hoped by thoi'e who
suppose her death will produce no ill effect, that
they will ceale their exertions for the prefentand
foffer the dead to reft,lelt by disturbing her manes,
the whole family be involved iu frelh calamities.
Mrs. Excise may have cause to rejoice, because
flie will be screened from much drudgery—as flie
must have been the principal support of Miss As
sumption, as well as of her mother and all her
other relations—Mrs. Direst Tax may reft more
easy in Virginia, as she will not be called into
foreign service.—Madam Irnpoft will have addi
tions to her burthen,fhe js however well support
ed, and can better bear it than any other of the
domestics, being much of a woman, and having
the support of Mrs. Luxury and Madam Extrava
gance, who are well-born dames, and above the
paltry considerations of economy or reputation.
Fenno's Gazette of this day * will derail the ora
tion.—Mr. S—k after delivering the fermon,took
1 his leave for the ealt tomoutn with the reft ofthe
family. * Sec Gazette of April 14.
ißß^Sfti
WEDNESDAY, 'JUNE 2, 179°
BOSTON, May 26.
DR. FRANKLIN'S DONATION.
At the Town-Meeting yelterday, the Hon.
Thomas Dawes, Ezekiel Price, Stephen
Higginson, William Tudor, and Thomas
Uawes, jun. Kfquires, were oppointed a Com
mittee to report to the meaiures neceliary to be
adopted, for carrying into effect the benevolent
intentions ofthe late Dr. Franklin, in the Do.
nation left to this his native town, in his Will.
CURIOUS MECHANISM.
Every friend to liis country, to science, and the
liberal arts, mult feel the moll pleasurable sen
sations in observing the rapid improvements,
which are made in the various branches of me
chanick arts. —It is with plea Hire we announce,
that our countryman and townfnian Dr. Josiab
Leavitt, has lately conftrutfted and completed
an Organ under a HarpAcord } —a piece of me
dian ism so curious, was never before attempted
or executed in America : Either inftruinents may
be played upon separately, or with the great ell
ease, be connected together. The tones are ex
ceedingly Iweet, and when combined, afford a
molt rich and plealing variety. Those Ladies
and Gentlemen of talle and knowledge, who have
seen and heard it, have not liefitated to express
their approbation ; and Mr. Selby, whose fupei -
iour knowledge is too well known to be doubted,
has pronounced as his opinion, that it is super-
A our to any instrument of the kind he ever saw.
473
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, MAY ri.
On the proportion to cncrcaji the duty of tonnage on foreign bottoms.
MR. Fitzsimons said, he (hould state some particulars to the
Committee, and leave them to decide what is belt, without
giving an opinion at present. He observed the agricultural iniei
cft of the United States was fully represented in Congrefc ; but it
it was not, he -3id not conceive t; -re was difpofitioM '.r*
any part of the Union unequally. He observed that the Agricul
ture of the country, notwithstanding the duty on foreign tonnage,
had not fuffered ; on the other hand, he could appeal to gentle
men from all quarters, whether the produce of the country had
ever been in greater demand, or had fold for a better price.
He observed, one object of the report was to encourage the im
portant business of ftiip-building. He enlarged on the great advan
tages of prosecuting this branch of Manufactures, than which, per
haps there is not one more ufeful and profitable pursued in the
United States, considering the small value of the materials, in them
felves,and contrasting this with the priceofadiip when completed.
He observed, that the operation of the tonnage laid last session,
had been advantageous to the trade of the United States. He shew
ed how this had been the cafe. He then benefits of the
revolution are yet to be realized by the Eastern States ; the South*
ern States have the ports of the whole world open to them ; the
Eastern States are excluded from the ports to which they were for
merly-admitted, with their mod important exports. He was not
however in faVor of a duty which would prohibit foreigners Irom
coming to our ports ; he was for encouraging (Kips from all na
tions to visit our Ihores, by which a competition would be created
in purchasing our produce. But at the fame time he should la
ment, as a very great misfortune, to have the carrying trade of this
country monopolized by foreigners. He iid not doubt that the
Southern States would soon fee it as much for their intend, as it
is for the interest of the Eastern States to have our own veflels prin
cipally employed in carrying off our produce. He took notice ot
the objection, from the low price of rice, and said, this was a fa£t,
which could not be accounted for from any other cause but this,
that in the article of rice, ot which there is no competition, the de
mand cannot be' extended beyond a certain supply. He added
many other observations, to which the committee appeared to be
particularly attentive.
Mr. Livermore contrasted the former and present situation of
the merchants and traders of Portsmouth ; they have been te+
pro&c!ied for their poverty, said he— th'S however if true, is their
misfortune, not their fault; it is true, manv of them are reduced
by means of the loss of that trade, which they now petition Con
grefl to interpose their authority, that it may be reflored—among
many other observations he said that the number of ships which
are now building in several States, has been mentioned—but be
fore the rcvoku.on tScihen province of New-HsmpAuce,
more ships annually than all ot thele together.
Mr. Bloodworth, observed that there had not been fufficient
time to determine refpefting the question ; let us patiently wait
the operation ot the law as it now stands—he was for accommoda*
tion. but the accommodation ftiould not be expe£led all on one fide.
Mr. White said he was sorry the question was brought on, we
have once determined the matter after a thorough dif uflioa—and
could have wished said he that we had been fatisfied.
The influence of the commercial interest was anticipated by the
oppofers of the constitution—will not this prove an additional
burthen on agriculture ? Will it not juftify their predictions?
Would it be just to lay an extra duty on any particular article that
a particular part of the continent could not do without ? The
Southern States cannot export their produce without foreign
(hips, this (hews the injufliceof the proportion ; heobf.rved that
the measure would have an unequal operation—it would tend to
discourage agriculture—he (hewed the impra£licability of the
Eastern States carrying the Southern produce ; can they pure ha fd
that produce with specie ? Have they goods to crcdit the Southern
States for ? Can they fell this produce in foreign countries upon
terms equally advantageous with foreigners ? I think it is evident
they cannot.—He said he thought fufficient had been done to en
courage the (hipping of the Eastern States.
Mr. Page. I differ much, Mr. Chairman, from mycolleague (Mr.
White) for I think thetonnagc proposed by the committee, being the
very fame which Virginia a&ually laid on British bottoms,cannot
be too high, as that experiment was attended with happv effetts
although made by that state alone, British merchants immediate
ly giving tha>freight to Virginia (hips, which till then was refufed
them, and without encrcafing the freight in Britilh bottoms. In
deed I thought the freight was rather lowered by it, until a gen
tleman from Virginia, who was here when I mentioned
cumftanres in the last feflion, told me I was mistaken. I believe,
fir, that our constituents would be pleased with the retaliation
proposed in the memorial on which the report of the committee
now under consideration is founded ; and I confefs that, did we
not stand in need, of every means of encreafing our re
venue, and did not a proper tonnage furnifh one considera
ble branch of it, I fhouldjoin heartily with the memorialists. The
advantage of the carrying trade, and the propriety of encouraging
it, has been dated to the committee; but, independent of every
other consideration, I should vote for encreafing the tonnage, as
the house has agreed to encreafe the duties on many enumerated
articles.
Sir, if Congress will go that length to encrcafe the revenue, it
will be unpardonable not to have recourse to such an obvious
source of revenue as tonnage ; and that too, when instead of being
a grievance, it mull be highly advantageous to the United State*.
One dollar is the sum I wished to have voted the foreign tonnage
at last feflion ; I have heard no arguments to alter my opinion,
and (hall therefore, Mr. Chairman, vote against the motion before
the committee, because I think as I did when the question refpetl
ing tonnage was before us last feflion, that the fears of the gentle
men from South-Carolina and Georgia are groundless.
I believe it the interest of thefouthern states, that (hip-building
(hould be encouraged to the utmost extent in the United States.
The fine timber which they have would then be fold to advan
tage, in the form of Ihips, instead of being destroyed or thrown a
way under the name of lumber or in trifling staves : Much I know
has been destroyed in Virginia, much waftrd in Haves. Sir, it is
their interest that their lifter states should carry for them, instead.
of foreigners. Under the late confederation, when each state was
proud of its separate fovercignty and independent interest, aact
viewed each other with a jealous eye, I heard harsh expreflions
refpe&ing the'growing naval strength of the eastern states: But
under the present government, there is no reason for such reflexi
ons ; their strength is the strength of the union ; and in this re
fpett they are to the United Statfs, what Holland is to the united
Provinces. I affirm, again, fir, that we are in no danger from the
retaliation of Britain; and we may with more propriety raifethc
tonnage, than incrcafe the duties on articles.
[Whole No. 119-]To the Prejidcnt and Commijioners oj Trade at Bourdeaux.
Paris, Bih March, 1790.
Gentlemen,
IT is with the utmost pleaftrre we felicitate our constituents and
fellow-citizens on account of the calm which has taken place of
the tempest with which they were threatened. Of this we have
the moll fati&fadory and pleasing proof.—You will readily con
ceive it, Gentlemen, from the copy of a decree, paflTed this day
at noop, unanimouflv, and without debate. Never was the unan
imity ot the National AfTembly more conspicuous ; and we take
the carlieit opportunity of dispatching to you the intelligence.
We are with refpeft,
Gentlemen,
Your mod humble,
And raoft obedient fervanti,
CORBUN,
BECHADE-CASAUX.
Decree of tie National AJJemily, concerning the French Colonies. Faf
fed Monday Sth tf March, 1790. Tranfmitci, in Manvfcript, by
M. Nairac, one of the Deputies from this city to the National As
s Jcmbiy. J
THE National AlTemblv, taking into confidefation the addrefles
Md Petitions of the commercial and manufacturing towm,
(he Memorial* itceivci from St.'"Domingo and Martinique, ad
drefled to them by the Minister of the Marine, and the reprcfent
ations of the deputies from the colonies—
DECLARE that, viewing the colonies as a part of the French
Empire, and desirous that they (hould enjoy the benefits of the
ha PPy revolution which has been accompli(hed here-, thev, never
thelefi, never meant to include them in the Constitution which
they have established for the Kingdom, and to fubjea them to
liws which might be incompatible with their local and particu
lar interefts.— WH E*Er°*i, They have decreed, and do decree
as follows:
j ft. Each Colony is authorised to make known its withes with
respect to a constitution, aXegidature, and that administration of
tfie govtrnment which may be mod conducive to its prosperity
and the happiness of its inhabitants; provided they conform to
•hole general principles which bind the colonies to the mothcr
couotry, and ensure the prcfervation of their refpeftive interefb
ad. In those colonies where there .re colonial aflemblies
freely chosen br the citizens and acknowledged by them, tht-fe af
fcmbhes (hall be permitted to make known the wishes of the co.
JOny; in those colonies where there are no such a(Temblie s thev
•nail be immediately formrd, in order to exercise the fame Dri
vilegei. r
3d. The King (hall be petitioned for p-rmiflion to circulate
in each colony an inftruftion from tire National AlTemblv con
tain "g,ft. The means of establishing Colonial AlTemblies in
thole Colonies where there are none. 2d. The general principles
«o which the Colonial AlT.mblies (hall conform in the plans which
they lhall offrr.
4'h. The plans prepared in the said Colonial AfTemSlies lhall
be 'uom.tted to the National AffemMy, in order to He examined
and adopted by them, and prcfentcd totheKing tor his acceptance
and <*>uhrmation. r
sth. The Decrees of the National Affcmbly, refpefting the or
ganization of municipalities, and of Admimftrative AlTemblies
(hall be transmitted to the said Colonial AlTemblies, with authori
ty to carry into execution any part of the said decrees which mav
apply to their local situation, fubjea to the final determination of
the National AlTembly, and of the King, with refpeft to the modi
fications which it may be proper to admit ; and fubiefl, also to
the provisional approbation of the Governor, with regard to the
provisional execution of the Decree which (hall be made bv the
Adtnmiftr&tive Aucmblies.
&h. The fame Coloniil AfTcmblies (hall i-xprcfs their wishes
with refpefi to the modifi;ation« which might be introduced into
the prohibitory regulations of the commerce between the Colonics
and the Mother-Country, in order, upon their petition, and after
having heard the repiefemations upon the part of the French Com
merce, that they may be adopted, if it {hall be found expedient
Fuithirmor e—The National Assembly declare they have
110 intention to effect, either directly, or indirectly, any chance in
any of the branches of the trade of Franco with her Colonies Pla.
cing the Coloniftj and their property under thr special protefiioii
ot the nation they pronounce all those to be criminal azainft the
nation who [hall attempt to excite any infur'reftions among them
Judging favonrblv of the motives which have aftuatcd the Citi
zens of the fa id Colooies, they declare there is no ground of com
plaint agamlt them ; and they expect from their patriotic, ,| le
maintenance, of tranquility, and an :gviolable fidelity to the Vati
on.to'the Laws, and to the King. ' *
THE TABLET No. CXIX.
" Many events, alluded to as a matter of revelation
may be accuviplijbed by the operation of natural cavfesS'
Mr. Editor,
, S ,? ME 7 eari a «° 1 was present at one of
the public exhibitions of a neighbouring Universi
ty. There was an ingenious dif'cuflion of the
following question ; Whether the universal diffufion
of literature will precede and prepare the way for the
universal prevalence of religion ? One of the voune
gentlemen, who took a part in the affirmative of
the question, gaveine a copy of the arguments he
delivered on theoccafion. I was so highly grati
fied with them, that I am induced to requei? you
to divide them into eflays, and publilh
tbem in different numbers of the Tablet. Z.
TN compliance with the wishes of our cor-
X vefpondent we begin the publication of
the performance above mentioned, and may per
haps continue it through three or four succeed
ing numbers.—
FOR THE TABLET.
the favorable influence of Literature
upon religion, to be determined by the
impartial voice of reason only—a decision ofthis
question in the affirmative would be the result of
a single reflexion. But since our reasonings in
this lin perfect ftaxe, are liable to error, and'we
fometuries find experience demolishing the fpecu
lative systems that are erected by demonstration
ltfelt, it will be neceflary to take a view of the
state ahd connexion of literature and religion
at different periods of the world, that we maybe
able, by a knowlege of part fa<fts, to frame proba
ble conjcctui'es concerning future events.
FRANCE.
" As the question is supposed to refer to chnftian
ity, as the ntoft rational system of religion ever
published to mankind, 1 fliall offer it as a princi
ple which reason and fad: concur to eftabtifh, That
it is impofliblefor a rational fyltem of religion to
exifl among a barbarous and illiterate people.
In confirmation of this principle, we may observe
that the inhabitants of molt erf the vast empires of
Alia are uncivilized or unlettered, and their reli
gion moflly idolatry—that altho chriflianity has
been frequently preached among them, yet the
repeated efforts of Mifiionaries, from the times of
the Apostles, down to the modern Jesuits, have
hardly been able to establish it in a single province.
So early as the 7th century, chriflianity was pub
liflied in China. In the 13th, we are informed,
the NewT eflament andPfalms of David were tran
slated into the language of the Tartars. Yet so in
capable were those Asiatics of comprehending the
sublime ideas of an invifibje Deity, that they chose
to follow Confucius andßrunima, rather than Je
sus Chrilt, and to worihip Fo and Dilailama in
preference to the fSeity owned by C hriftians.
" The Emperors,it is true, opposed the propaga
tion of chriHianity, from motives of policy. Ta
merlane, in particular, used the sword to extir
pate it—probably he was apprehensive that the i
deas of equality andandependence, which our re
ligion inculcates, would disturb the tranquility of
his dominions, or prove fatal to his extensive and
despotic power. But, waving the question, why
so many millions of the human race, forthoufands
of ages, have Numbered in tame submission to
the will of a tyrant, without effecting material in
novations in their government : It is certain that
had the body of the people in these empires, been
enlightened by science, the sword of Tamerlane,
of Kouli Khan, and of Omar would have been as
impotent in refilling the progrels of religion in
Asia, as the victorious armies of Charles Vth, the
pompous decrees ofecclefiafticalcouncils, and the
awful fulminations of the Roman Pontiff, were
unfuccefsful in opposing the reformation in Eu
rope. (To be continued.)
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
1 v jJL.ionc.iy
COSGRESS OF THE UXITED STATES
AT TBI SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of New Yo-k, on Monday the fourth
of January, onethoufand seven hundred and ninety.
A p T , '° P rovidc f , or mitigating or remitting;
the Forfeuures and Penalties accruing under
tio e ned VenUC LaWS ' n Ce " ain CaseS therein meni
r» E ilenaftJiy the SaUi and House of Retufintathe, of the UviUd
J States of America, in Longrefs affemkled, Th;lt w h f ,, cver anv
judge of the diftrifl in whtch such si« „ C 4°.
given to the person or p^.' "nfe *
h, t t u ei;h nd 10 ; hc At,ornc > ol the o»"^.««^or?„'&«&*
that each may have an opportunity of fhewinT ranfi- ami a t
mitigation or rem,ffion thereof; and (hall cause !),,
(hall appear upon luch enquiry to be If Irl J 1 whlctl
tition, and d£k tohc th •' T
fury of the United States, who (hall therollt V Trea '
tigateor remit fueh fine,'pen, Uy or "|"
'' m opinion, the fame was incurred wVhout wilfuUrVr'
Sgaa
X's it:"."'" " ,d •■ :n,j -•T'i ~r,£
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG
TOHN ADAMSr' 7 "f Rtpr'fixMht,.
JOHN ADAMS, Vui-Prejidtnt oj the United States
THOMAS JEFFERSON, S my of State.
&asesa®w«^
r».h».he wrssawsssas,s
474
'ATES
PUBLISHED
the Territory of die United States, North-Weft of iht Rim ny
and the government of the said Territory-, South of .ife ql *'
shall be Timilar toxhat wMch is now exe'reiftd in dit T
North-Weft of the Ohio; exorpt so far is is otherfeife
in the conditions, r.xprefled in an Ast of Convrefiof thr
Session, entitled " Ar»a£tto accept aceffion ofdte
State of North-Carolina, to a certain Diftrift of Wcftern T
tory." "■
And be it further enaHed, That the salaries of the officers w Vi
the President of the United States lhall nominate, and with ' '
advice and consent of the Senate, appoint by virtue oft'nis
fliall be the fame as those, by law eftablfftied, of funil ar offi B '''
in the government North-Weft of the River Ohio. Cet *
And the powers, duties and emoluments of a fuperintendantrf
Indian Affairs, for the Southern depaitment, fliall be unit?/,
those of the Governor. w '"'
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLEJJBL'Jig
Speaker of the House of Rtbrifctui,,,,
JOHN ADAMS, Vuc-Vreftierl oftht
. and ''"Mnt'jtheSmtt.
Approved May twenty-sixth, t- Q0
GEORGE WASHINGTON, frefidct „fthe vl tti S,», s
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESEN TA FIVES.
MONDAY, MAY 31.
THE report of the Poll Mailer General on the
Colics, refpefling a survey of the public roadt, wis
and refci red to the committee on the fubjeft of
Offices, and Poll Roads.
Mr. Kitzfimom moved that the motion laid ontheuHt'toTmA.
ing Congress holding their next feflion in Philadelphia, (HoiMfa"
taken up. , ,
Mr. Sherman and Mr. Livermore obje&od to the motion It
was observed the third reading of the funding hill Was the or.
der of the day, which was a fubjirt of the greate'i important on
which the Houle has been long deliberating— and whicii has never
been before the Senav. The fubjea occasioned a lengthy difcrf.
fion the IJII fcflion, and will probably introduce much debate
whenever renewed.
Mr. Vining fupportcd the motion. He observed, that the bufi.
nels was now brought forward 111 the moll simple form, un;on 3
netted with thole qucllions of permanency, &c. with which :i
lonnerly encumbered. He hoped the resolution would be i m .
m-diately attended to ; it was certainly of tome conference to
determine whether Congrefi Ihould in future hold their feflions
nearer the centre of the Union, or not. The qu, (lion now comes
before ill m an abflraft form ; the members are iree and unioibat.
talTed ; no undoc influence and combinations that he knew ot ex
tiled.
Mr. Lawtancc oppoled the motion, and urged taking up the
butiuefs which had a piior claim to the attention ofCongrefi.
Mr. Thatcher observed, that as there was bulinefj of the mated
conkqucnce before the House, and on which the publ.c mind is
particularly anxious ; and thi qui ftion is contefTedly trifling anil
un'mpoitant in a somparative view, be hoped that the time of the
Hoirfc would not be cnnTumcd in difcufling it. He did not think
it ol two paper hilars' confequcnce to the United State!, whether
Congress !at at New-York, Philadelphia, or on the Potowmic.
Mr. Vining and Mr. Hartley replied to Mr. Thatcher.
Mr. Sherman observed, that the business more immediately bf.
<t C ° n S rcfs ' he considered of so much consequence, that he cooij
wilbl the present motion might be withdrawn. He (houldhavenj
o jeflion to taking it up next Tui fday or „
'^ r * Fit/fimoU! said, that if the Hou r e would agree th*t it
fhoulu be taken up next Tucfday or Wednesday. He was not so
tenacious of the present moment as to obieft to luch a postpone
ment.
Mr. Livermore objcftcd to the House's pledging lhcmfcbw»
take irp the resolution m-xt week.
Mr. White was in favor of taking up the rcfolution at the pre
cnt time : He conceived that it might be soon determined. Re
curring to the Journals,he said, it appears that the laft.feflionthere
was a confiderablc majority of the Houfein favor of Germantown,
as the permanent refidcnce ; that being the cafe, there can be no
imculty in fixing on Philadelphia as a temporary residence. He
wished therefore the question might now be determined.
Mr. Parker was in tavor o* deciding on the question. Heracn
tioned a variety of inconvenicncies which resulted from meeting in
New-York.
Mr. Gerry replied particularly to the two last gentlemen, and
o lervcd, that it is of more consequence to the people what Con
gress do, than where they fit.
. Mr. Smith objeaed to the motion. He considered the question
as unimportant to Oie community at large, whether Congrefsmet
at one place or another. He considered it impropei in itfelf, as
it is not certain that the present Congress will hold another feflion.
e mem bers of this Congrtfs were chosen to meet in New-York,
lie 'nought it quite unnecctfarv tl»t at the last feflion the members
iftould be dragged away to another place. He .idacd many other
(.Nervations, and concluded by faying that he Ihould call for the
Ayes and Noes.
Mr. Williamfoii, Mr. Burke,and Mr. Blood worth, made a few
re mar a. -—A fumcient number of members rising, in favorof
calling the Ayes and Noes, they are as follow :
AYtS.
MeflYs A (he, Baldwin, Brown, Cadwallader. Carroll. Clymer,
Coles, Contcr, Gilman, ftriffin, Hartley, Heift
e , Jack Con, Lee, Madison.Matthews.Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Pip',
Wkt er un!- n r ey ' S " u " dfl " 1 ' Steele, Stone, Sumptcr, Vininj,
W hue, Willtamfon, Wynkoop 32 . V
.. „ . NOES.
M, r Bt ? I son ' Bloodmitl '. Boudinot, Burke, Floyd,
" y ' G °odliue, Grout, Huger, Huntington, Lawrancc,
cT r n° r e ,rW ' dfiC ' R- a nfellacr,Schurt:man,
I ratnbul'l, Tucker!'—^2^7^* 3 S, »' th <S-C.) S,urges, Thatcher,
So it was determined to take up the Resolution.
T lie Resolution was then read.
unu!l'„ L ! a ,r J c C ' obf " vcd ' that the Uft session it was said thittb
Hrniirrlr/l on fixing the permanent refideso
after an ether " wou ld be more easy to fix on this refidwo
=dlournment to Philadelphia? If Congress removed
mantnt con " l , ved th « difficulty of ever fixing on « per
dereH rnf " would be greatly encreafed, arid probably re»
be inunlu^" 3 if' ar the question of permanency wouM
The Uft r(T m i P cnt difcuflion he would not pretend to f j y
. rr o ,'^ 1 *" greatly agitated the House, in W
u mbcrl R enerall y regretted that it had bee*
he thou u?-, conftdered the question aslocal, and in that vie#
whole n • ' n. iV? till business which concerned the
.Ton ore'T "T? h3VC been d "'ded on. He thought the q«f
rprirfrn U * C ' as !t mi S»" Evolve the idea of a permartw 1
nf t h, "I"' 1 a PP e " cd wbe proper to wait till the enumeration
com ™ ', r nt ' ould be com pleated : New-York doei'nof
Con ß re /s tarrying here for a long season. Heobfer
anv'fnr ® varlet y " f '"sons, that it was as proper a situation"
" y J or ' tew F*>rary residence.
ci Dies'rnn^'l!^!i 0 f °' ) j c^e d to the resolution, and on general prj»"
Dffinteri „ "^ e J. " r tarrying where they new are-W W o
removal u j Cu l tlcs > a "d expence, which would attend
of thi* riM.. e , vcrtc< * to the cooveniencies and accommoda"^ 1 *
change till' ' Ut WBS °PP°fed particularly to the idl» °f s
change. Ml a permanent fituanon Q»„M be fixed on.-Mr. Boudinot said he v»ted against thequeftion's coming on, on
the principle that more important business is before the House.
Headded otherobfervations, and moved that the Resolution (hould
be amended so as to include the idea of a permanent residence, in
these words, Resolved, " That the permanent feat of the govern
ment of the United States (ball be.fixed in some convenient place
on the banks ot' the Delaware, and, that Congress meet and hold
their next feflion, &c." This was made a question of order. The
Speaker determined that the motion was not in order. An
peal was made to the House, and the question decided by Ayes
and Noes. AYES.
Meffrsßenfon, Boudinot, Burke, Coles, Floyd, Foster, Gerry,
Goodhue, Hathorne, Huntington, Lawrance, Lee, Leonard, Liver
more,Madifon, Partridge, Renfellaer,Schureman, Sedgwick, Seney,
Sherman, Sylvester, Smith (M.) Smith (S. C.) Stone, Sturges,
Thatcher, Trumbull, Tucker. 29.
Messrs Ames, A(he, Blood worth, Baldwin, Brown, Clymcr,
Contee, Cadwallader, Fitzfimons, Gale, Gilman, Griffin, Grojit,
Hartley, Heifter. Jackfoo, Matthews, Moore, Muhlenberg, Page,
Parker, Scot, Sinnickfoo, Steele, Sumpter, Vining, White, Wif
liamfon, Wynkoop. 29.
The Speaker having before decided in the negative, the amend
ment was loft.
Mr. Lawrance moved that the question be referred to a commit
tee of the whole House. This was loft.
Mr. Smith (M.) moved that the Resolution be amended by ftrik
ingovu Philadelphia, arid infecting Baltimore.
Mr. Sherman moved Wilmington.
Mr. Viningobfcrved, that as there was no probability of carry
ing Wilmington, he could consider the motion in no other light
than as designed to embarrass.
Mr. Ames rose to exculpate Mr. .Sherman from the imputation
of infinccrity. He said he had uniformly discovered a predilettion
for Wilmington.
The debate was continued refpe&ing Philadelphia and Balti
more.
Mr. Seney, Mr. Stone and Mr. Lawrance spoke in favor of
Baltimore, as being more central.
Mr. White, Mr. Hartley and Mr. Fitzfimons against the motion.
Mr. Smith (M) mentioned some particulars of the commerce of
Baltimore —the 1-aws they have palled refpetting ceding to Con
gress 10 miles square—he also informed the house that the Inhabi
tants of that town had raised a fubfeription of between 20 and 30
thousand ponuds to erett suitable accomodations for the mem
bers.
Mr. Fitzfirrrons after observing that his object being to remove
from New-York, proposed that the place should be left blank—
the house agreeing to this.
It -was then moved that the blank Ihould be filled up with New-
York.
Mr. Gcrrv said he considered thequeftion of great importance,
and if no iufficient reason can be for it, it will be found
to be attended with very serious coniequences. What reason can
be given for the removal ? I know of none—if Congress should
meet the next feflion at Philadelphia, it will very probably be
moved to return again to New-York; and thus Congress will be
as a political shuttlecock—bandied about between two rival ci
ties. He contralted the accomodations of New-York and Phila
delphia,and gave the preference tothofe of the former :He advert
ed to the e.xpence the city of New-Yo*k had been at, to accomo
date the government, and said, that Congress could nclt remove
with honor, without reimbursing them theexpence. He thought
it of importance to determine the question rclpc&ing the tempo
rary and permanent residence of Congref6, for while the queltion
remains doubtful, it will always be insinuating itfclf in all great
national questions. Is this a situation for this government to
continue in? He replied to lome observations relpetlmg the
" wealth and security of Philadelphia" and observed, that with
xefp*£lto the latter, there was no great force in the remark, as it
ts a time of profound peace, and no inconvenience had, as he be
lieved, or would arifc on account of the former.
On the question to insert New-York, the ayes and noes- arc as
follow.
MelTrs. Ames, Bcnfon, Blood worth, Boudinot, Burke, Floyd,
Foster, Gerry, Grout, Hathorne, Huger, Huntington, Law
rance, Livermore, Partridge, Renfellaer, Schureman, Sedgwick,
Sherman, Sylvester, Smith, (S. C.) Sturges, Thatcher, Trumbull,
Tucker. 25.
MelTrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown, Cadwallader, Carroll, Cly
mer, Coles, Contee, Fitzlimons. Gale, Gilman, Goodhue, Grit
fin, Hartley, Heifter, Jackson, Lee, Leonard, Madtfon, Mat
thews, Moore, Muhlenberg, Page, Park -r, Scot, Srney, Sinnick
son, Smith, (M.) Steele, Stone, Sumpter, Vining, White, William
son, Wynkoop. 35.
Baltimore and Philadelphia were then proposed to fill up the
blank, almost at the fame instant—some debate ensued, which
should be fir ft pur.
Mr. Carroll observed that as he saw no probability of carrying
Baltimore, though he considered it as a proper place, on account
ot its being more central tha,n any other that has been men
tioned, he (hould vote for Philadelphia as being nearer the cen
tre than any other situation he saw a profpefl of being agreed to.
Mr. Seney moved an amendment, to add after Philadelphia,
" or Baltimore."
Mr. Vining, Mr. Hartley and other members opposed the mo
ion. as leading to no decision with refpe6l to cither place.
The motion for adding Baltimore, was determined in the ne
gat've. AYES.
MelTrs. Benfon, Bloodworth, Burke, Floyd, Gerry, Grout, Ha
thorne, Huger, Jackson, Lawrance, Partridge, Renfellaer, Scney,
vSmith (M.) Smith (S. C.) Stone, Siurges, Sumpter,
Thatchcr, TrUmbull, Tucker. 22.
NOES.
MelTrs. A Hie, Ames, Bloodworth, Boudfnot, Brown, Cadwal
lader, Carroll, Cly mer, Coles, Contee, Fitzfnnons, Foster, Gale,
Gilman, Goodhue, Griffin, Hartley, Heifter, Huntington, Lee,
Leonard. Livcrniore, Madison, Matthews, Moore, Muhlenberg,
Parker, Page, Schureiu-n, Scot, Sedgwick, Sherman, Sinnickfon,
Steele, Vining, White. Williamfon, Wynkoop. 38.
The question tor inserting Philadelphia, was also deferiTfined
by ayes and noes.
MelTrs. Aflir, Baldwin, Boudinot, Bfown, Cadwallader, Car
roll, Clynic'r. Coles, Contce, Fitzfimons, Gale, Gilman, Goodhue,
Griffiri, Hartl-y, Heiftcr, Jatkfon, Lee, Leonard, Madison, Mat
thews. Moore, Muhlenberg, P*p«, Parker, Partridge, Scot, Scntfy,
Sinulckfou, Smith (M 1 Steele, Stone, Sumpter, Thatcher, Vimng,
White, Williamfon, Wynkoop. 38.
McfiYs. Ames, Benfon. Blood worth, Burke, Floyd, Frwfter, Ger
ry, Gtout, Hathorne, Huger, Huntington, Lawrance, Livcrrnore.
Renfellaer, Schuicman, Sedgwick, Sherman, Sylvester, Smith,
(S. C.) Trumbull, Tucker. 22.
1 lie propolkion as filled up was then put and agreed *.0.
Sundry reports from the fecrctary of the department of war
were read,
Mr. Moore presented several papers, containing rcprefentations
from the people of a particular part of Virginia, refpe&ing in
coirvenienccs which attend holding the federal courts in that llate,
and moved for leave to bring in a bill to repwil part of the judi
cial law.
A mc flagc wan received from the Prefidcnt of the United States,
informing thehoufethatrhe " A&forthe encouragement of Learn
ing, by fecuringthe copies of maps, charts and books to the au
thors and proprietors of such copies, during the times therein
ayentioned, had received his assent.'*
NOES.
AYES.
NOES
AYES.
NOES.
A message was received from the Senate, informingthe house,
that thcv dill insist cm their amendment to the bill providing the
means of intercourse between the United States and foreign na
tions—-'and request a concurrence with the house on the fubjcfl of
disagreement.
The house voted to concur, and appointed Mr. Gerry, Mr.
aWltliamfon and Mr. White the committee on their part, to ma
nage the conference.
TUESDAY, JUNE i.
On motion of Mr. Williamfon, ine house went into a commit
tee of the whole, on the bill providing for the settlement of the
accounts between the United States and individual dates.
Mr. Seney in the chair.
Some progreCs was made in the discussion, the committee then
rose and reported progress.
A rneiTage was received fromthe Prefidentof the United States,
informing the house, that he had received official information of
the ratification and adoption of the constitution of the United
States, by the state of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations,
on which event he congiatulated the house.—A letter from the
Prelident of the Convention, to the President of the United States,
accompanied the meflage, which was read.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) Then moved that thecommittee of the whole
house, ftiould be dilcharged from considering the bill to prevent
a commercial intercourse with the state of Rhode-Island, &c.
which was immediately put and carried in the affirmative.
On motion of Mr. Sedgwick, a committee was appointed to
report a bill of bills for giving effe£l to the laws of the United
States—in refpett to the (late of Rhodc-Ifland and Providence
Plantations.
Information having been received of the death of the honorable
Theodorick Bland—one of the members of the house—Mr. Jack
son moved that a committee ffiould be appointed to fnpermtend
his funeral.
This bulinefs was specially referred to the delegation from the
(late of Virginia.
Mr. Gilman of the joint committee of bothhoufes, reported
that said committee had examined the following enrolled bills,
and found them correct—to which the speaker affixed his signa
ture, viz.
An ast for finally adjusting and fatisfying the claims of Frede
rick William de. Steuben.
An ast for giving effect to an ast entitled c< an ast to establish
the judicial courts of the United States, within the (late of North-
Carolina."
An ast supplemental to the aftforeftablilhingthe salaries of the
executive officers of government, with their afliftants and clerks.
A meftage was received from the Senate, informing that they
have pafled a bill for the relief of Thomas Jenkins and Co.
Mr. Gerry's motion for printing the treaties between the Unit
ed States and foreign nations, and annexing them to the code of
lawj, was taken up and passed. Adjourned.
N E W P O R T, May 15
A very severe slash of lightning, attended with
a tremendous clap of thunder, on Thursday morn
ing lalt, (truck one of the chimnies of a house
inhabited by Mr. Joseph Taylor standing by
itfelf foutb-eafteriy, at about half a mile's dis
tance from the compa& part of the town—the
top with the partitions in the chimney,were beat
into the body and fell do the lower floorJ—Mr.
Taylor's wife was fitting near the hearth with a
child in her lap, and a girljuft by her, with a
nother child in her's—one of Mrs. Taylor's (hoes
was torn in pieces ((he had n« buckles in them)
off her foot, which was so burnt as to be blister
ed, —the lightning fcaving apparently pafled
through the heel, a hole being' made therein
about as large as might be pierced with a double
ten gimblet—the girl and children were not in
jured in the leait. Mr. Taylor himfelf, who was
fitting near the window, had both his (hoes also
torn so that the upper leather was separated from
the foals, and one of his buckles (lightly melted.
A table in the rooin was overturned and a candle
fland had its legs broken—two large holes were
made through the floor into the cellar and two
glass windows in the room, together with the
sashes, were stove to pieces ahd carried to a con
siderable distance from the house—there was a
fniall iron chain hanging in the chimney within
about fix inches of the hearth. Quere, how can
it be accounted for that the (h»es of both Mr. and
Mrs. Taylor, who were fitting at a considerable
distance from each other fhoula be taken off, and
no other injury done to them kat (lightly scorch -
ing one of her feet ?—A hen fitting on her nest
in a closet near the chimney was killed.and a num
ber of eggs under her broke to pieces and fcat
tereil about.
NEW-YORK, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2.
ADOPTION OF THE CONSTITUTION BY
THE STATE OF RHODE-ISLAND.
Monday afternoon arrived Sloop Rambler,
Capt. Carey, from Newport, Rhode-lfland, who
left that place 011 Sunday morning lalt.
By the arrival of Capt. Carey, we have receiv
ed the authentic information, thattlie CONVEN
TION of RHODE-ISAND did, on Saturdaylall",
adopt the Conflitution of the United States by a ma
jority of TWO. The Yeas were thirty-four
—the Nays thirty-two.
In the above veffelcanie patlenger Col. Barton,
one of the members of the Convention, with dif
patclies forthe PRESIDENT ofthe United States.
It is expetfted the Governor of Rhode-lfland
will immediately convene the legislature of that
State, in order that they may proceed to the
choice of two Senators to the Congress of the
United States.
In eonlequence of this event a Federal salute
was fired from the battery in this city.
" There is a Providence which prelides over
the affairs of individuals and of nations." The U
nited States have so frequently experienced the
interpolitions of this benignant power, that in any
exigency, it would be the extreme of infidelity
not to confide in its all-powerfulgoodnefs—Clouds
475
atid tlaiknefs have often obfenred our prolpe&s—
" the dawn has been overcast"— but a glorious
day has fuccceded—One series of events lias fol
lowed another, and all have combined to produce
the best interest of our country—and to place this
confederated Republic in a iituation the moll ref
peiSable and enviable of any upon the face of the
globe. The recent acceHion of Rhode-Iflard to
the constitution almost eompleats the chain of our
federal Union—andtheway will probably be very
soon opened for Vermont to make her name tru
ly refpectableas a member ofthe great American
Family.
The federal government is new—'its operation
is extensive, its influence, however, begins to be
realized, and itsfalutary effetls will be more and
more apparent —The citizens of the Uniu-d States
justly consider it as the last hope of their freedom
and happiness—and tho petulant and cha
racters may censure public measures, and excite
a momentary uneasiness, the great body of the
people are too wife not to realize that their peace
and prosperity are inseparably conne»fted with
supporting government, and the faithful Admini
strators of the laws.
" Cato was the tory of the age in which he liv
ed—Cafar on the other hand was the whig of his
time"—and like other unprincipled Demagogues
of all ages, employed his influence and power to
overturn the liberties of his country.
As with individuals, so it is with nations ; in
proportion to their consciousness of indepen
dence, they will not bear to be told the truth ;
real patriots must generally wait for time to do
justice to their merits—and it is the touchstone of
bitter experience that bears witness to their in
tegrity.
The confidence of the people is often usurped
jby bold pretenders to a superior attachment to
their liberties ; but the neceflity of a transmission
of this confidence from those, who on being
" weighed in the balance are found wanting,"
suggests the propriety of a steady adherence to
characters who through all the Ampliations of o
pinion, continue to support an inflexible indepen
dency of spirit; of such we may fay
The falling dream lhall change its rapid course»
And up the (loping mountain climb with force ;
A weak vain wish, great nature'* lawscontroul,'
Lre aught (hall change the purpose of their foul.—
On such the public turn th* expecting eye
i When dangers threaten, or when ruin's nigh.
" The voice of the people ia the voice of Ged
this is a text from which many heretical, politi
cal fernions are preached ; the voice of the peo
ple can only be known by the conllitution they
have adopted, and the laws ena<sted by their au
thority under it—and whatever regard some may
pretend for the liberties of the people, if they
(peak not according to the laws and the constitu
tion, it is becaule " thereis no truth in them"—
as the laws of nature can be known only by their
fleady, uniform operation—so " the voice of the
people" is only to be heard in the decisions of
their collective, free aflembles.—The opinion of
the moment is never a directory to the confident
patriot.
Complaints have lately been made by several
farmers of the inefficacy of the Plaifter of Paris,
thev have (own upon their lands. Upon scruti
ny it appears, that a good deal of this manure, or
or what refemblesit, has been imported intothefe
middle states from the Bay of Fundy. The great
er part of this has been used without effect, as
having been taken from the furface of the foil.
If the Nova-Scotians would be at the pains of
digging it from the bosom of the earth as in Old
France, no doubt it would be found nearly as
good as that of Paris.
The Governor and Legislative council of the
province ofCanada, have iflued an a<ft in addition
to the a<t for regulating the inland commerce of
that province, wherebv it is enacted, that the free
importation of pig iron be permitted from the U
nited States, provided every pig of iron so import
ed shall be marked in the moulds in legible let
ters, Vermont."
We have the pleasure to felicitate the public,
that the President of the United States has so far
recovered his health, that he yesterday saw com
pany at his house, and received the congratula
tions of many refpe<flable charadxrs on the oc-
cafion
Yesterday died in thia city, the Hon. Theodorick Bland,
Esquire, a member of the Hon. House of Repre tentative* of the
United States—from the State of Virginia.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK-
Ship Ncftor, Robertfon, Montego Bay, 45 days.
Curwin, Gibfon, Liverpool, 49days.
Brig Jane, -Newfoundland, 21.
Schooner Prii»ce and Liberty, Prince, St. EuHatia.
Rallcy, Hazard, Edenton, (N. C.)
Sloop Rambler, Peterfon, Rhode-lfland, 1 day.
Sally, Bartlett, Wilmington, 7 days.
►Fanny, Farret, Bermuda, 44 days.
Sallv, Payne, Charleston, 8 days.
Hudson Packet, Coffin, St. Euftatia, *1 days.
TO be Sold, an elegant dwelling house, in every circumstance
fitted for a gentleman with a large family, situated 114 a very
pleasant part of Eliaabeth Town, New-Jersey. -The lot con
tains abont four acres, on which is a very good garden, and a
variety of the best fiuit trees. The terms of payment can be made
so easy as to suit the purchaser. Enquire of the Subscriber at No.
12, Wall-Street. ELIAS BOUDJNOT.
June 2, 1790.FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
AIRTT AL E. (an imitation
CANTO Ift.
Here fa![hood fore is putiijhcd,
And tdlentjs liketvife;
The I ale that imp* on Cudoen's k^ad.
Hate aye bifore your eyes.
\ DOWN the dale dull Cudden trod,
His homeward way with clowuilh ploJ,
And thoughtleif mind I ween ;
He whittling fzw the fun go down,
Nor far hed Jcfttlre market town,
Ere derknefs clos'd the scene.
His whiffling ceas'd, his courage fail'd,
While thus bis lot the looby wail'd,
And trembling totter'd on,
£< O had I from the ale-house kept,
4i Nor by the fire-fide idly slept,
44 By day light I had gone.
Now filly loon 'tis ten to one,
Before the rife of morrow's fun,
*' You'll rob'd and murder'd be,
44 My market ca(h how shall I.save P
u Oh ! Spare my life—take what I havr—
44 Hulh—foft—it was a tree !"
I*hus Cudden held his way,
Which through a thickset forrft lay,
With various path-ways croft ;
Loud howl'd the wind ; cold came the night,
Ct ribs, poor ihiv'nng dismal wight,
Ne'er in worse place was loft.
No broken branches caught his coat,
But ftiaight poor quaking Cudden thought,
Some devil had him got,
The moist fleet loon his garments wet,
Ne'er was poor swain so fore beset,
As Cudden was I wot.
Now o'er the Hippy darklin road,
Full many a weary yard he trod,
When lo ! a light he spied :
And soon in sooth a ruin'd wall,
A tott'ring tow'r with tui rets tall
He found himfelf beside.
Heenter'd mongft the ruins drear ;
Each coarse red hair gan crawl for fear ;
He o'er the pavement past :
His steps resounded as he went
Hoarse echoes forth the arches sent,
He reach'd a door at last.
And there the looby tVembling flood,
Nor dar'd to enter though the wood,
Blaz'd cheerful on the hearth ;
His wet cloaths clung his fhiv'ring limbs,
He hften'dlong but heard no
Of woe, ne bursts of mirth.
At length the lubber ventur'd in,
He himfelf and dry'd his skin,
Theft all adown he laid :
But fears ftillkept the loon awake,
Though much he wiOi'd a nap to take,
Yet not a prayer he said.
DiftinQ twelve times a -Jock resounds ;
The hour when Fairies take their rounds
T' irifpett the deeds ot men ;
The hour when mad'ning ghosts burfl out,
And howling through the thick air float,
Unthought of mortal ken.
The hour when Oberon and Mab,
Ar.d Puck, to punish maids that blab,
Blister their tongues they fay ;
The hour when Mab in frightful dreams/
Makes mortals think again the themes,
That fill their thoughts by day.
The hour when witches search the rooma,
And finding cobwebs, seize the brooms,
And mount aloft iu air,
There having gambol'd out their fill,
Descend and mount the maids at will,
And make them snort and stare.
Cuodin's cold fit redoubled came,
An ague (hook his clumsy frame,
He grip'd his purse full fart ;
This money gave the clown no reft,
He thrust it firft close to his breast
His breechen took't at last.
Now fiercer winds wild rock'd the hall,
Loud thunders rent in twain the wall,
And let in ruftiing light :
Cuodin pretending deadly sleep,
Would itillfrom out his eye-lids peep,
And saw a gallant fight.
Ten thousand waxen lights adorn
The glafTy walls, before forlorn,
And dark as dungeon dol'd ;
And ftra ght withoutcn aid of hands,
Up rear'd a beauteous fabric stands,
With throne of fliining gold.
Now Clarions fhrilT salute the ear,
And founding feet approachen near
Soft music fills the sky,
And now gallants all gayly drefs't,
Came riding in, full ten a breast,
On moufen pianklmg high.
(To be continued.)
LONDON.
ExtraCl of aletter from Bajiia, (Corfua,) Feb. i
THE spirit of liberty prevails more than ever,
throughoutthe whole Island. The Corficans,
who, only three months ago, were liable to severe
punilhment, if they appeared armed, are now all
provided with arms. No violence, no pillaging,
has, however been committed, and no other use
is made of strength than to protect our natural
rights. The firit endeavour was to leflen the
power of certain high families, who had formed
a combination hoftileto the freedom of the peo
ple, and who always oppofecl our having an arm
ed militia of citizens."
In this xra of uncommon revolutions, the
blacks seem inspired with the fame passion for
freedom, that is now so general in a great part of
Europe. In the British Island of St. Vincent a
spirit of opposition to theplanters has beenloi'ip
prevalent, not only among the negroes, but even
among the remains of the ancient natives, who
have outlived the cruelty and oppression of the
European settlers, few of whom are to be found
in any of the Weft India Islands but that of St.
Vincent. Tliofe circumflances ftror.gly evince,
that the opprefled inhabitants are not ignorant
ofwhat isgoing forward in our hemifphei e.
PROVIDENCE, May 20.
Extralf of a letter from a very refpetiai'e gentle
man in Congress, dated New-York, May Ix, 1 790,
to his friend in this town.
" The local situation of your state, its com
mercial advantages and pursuits, the energy and
enterprize of its citizens, combined in conlidera
tion with its former connexions with the nation,
will render it itopoffible that an ultimate fepaia
tion ihould take place.
" It being now generally believed that your
convention wiM rejedt the coirftitution, the mea
sures to be purfaed in that event are in the con
templation of rheSenate. It is probable the re-,
fult will be, that all commercial intercourse be--
tween Rhode-Island and tlie'United States will be
interdicted, as well by land as water ; and a de ;
mand madeof immediate payment of the intei eft at
least, perhaps the principal, of her proportion of
the national debt; while humanity will regret
the evils to be produced by these measures, thei
necessity, 1 am persuaded will juftify them to the
candor even of those who may be the principal
fufferers.—Thefe evils, which I>am confident you
will believe I ardently wish may be avoided, are
the least that can be done under the present cir
cumstances. They may be averted, and I will
not altogether despair, that Rhode-Island will yen
before it is too late, know and pursue the things
which belong to her Peace and Happinels."
CHARLESTON, May 5.
Yefteiday morning about 2 o'clock, a.mandrei
led in a clerical gown, was detected in preaching
to a number of negroes on Prioleau's wharf; but
by his activity, and leaving a bottle of rum and
his gown behind him, he effected his escape.
PHILADELPHIA, 27 May.
Extracl «f a letter jrum Ltndon. to a gentleman //.
this city.
' an } exceedingly rejoiced to hear of the prof
pen ty of my native country, that so much unani.
uuty prevails : And that under the government
of that excellent man General Wafhmgton. the
states begin to make so refpedable a figuTe both ab
home and abroad. I can allure you, dear fir, that!
America has many warm friends 111 this country '
and by far the gr part of the people here wifli
well to the mterefts of that land. Thepraifesof
the President are almtft in every mouth that
mentions his name. Perhaps no man that ever!
lived on earth was more universally elteemed.j
May God fend hun Idi»g life, health and happj
n » every blessing, here and hereafter. The!
peace and plentywhich abound in America at this!
nf'?' n /°. re,n * rkable a manner, are great tokens'
of the divine favor, and ought to be as Aich ac
knowledged. If the inhabitants of the states con-'
tinue to donolems now every 2 j years, they will
in one hundred years, or a century hence be 48
millions of people, and in two centuries will neat
ly equal the inhabitants of the globe at nrefrnf
tY a r a rh n fi ft ft n r fl,i i ngth ° Ught! When weconfider
that the firft settlement in New-England is nnt
yet 1 7 0 years old until next November, and tha
in Virginia not above I 2 years older, wearefilled
with wonder at the amazing increase r r „,
things hath God done for America, and greater
things no doubt be hath in store Thnnil 1 ■
fare, and ihould be glad if it w»« :« mtf „
serve and promote her interests." yP OWe r to
BOSTON, May 26, 1 7 n 0 .
A correspondent has communicated to us the
following abftra<ft of the car<r o of the >j
Capt Da.e, lately aS,td « vS-W
from Canton, China :
1709 Chetts Hysow Tea,
410 do. Souchong do.
66 do. Bo he a. do.
Bethlehem Stages
from * ba " ks of th < De".-
Academy at Bethlehem, Tenders C y0U " ; ladlcs
ce^v mO To° f C ° nVeya ; ,CC bCtWCC " ,hatto -» C New n Yo n rk ne d
Bethlehem. At each of these places a [la V 1i I™'" olnt and
day and Thursday at 5 o'clock" at M °""
eturn. and the «x^
T OW " Point Bethle
the fame as a paffcnger. Packages and'letters will be' °'.'
delivered at Mrs. Winant's, White ha'l whe f <ve a,M *
ken—carriage of a letter id— 1 lib ri nia y be ta
palTenger. 3d-i 4 lb. of baggage allowed to each
To accomodate those who may wilh to t.,kp r„i,l, .
route in journeymg betwctn the Eallern mH / ln tl,eir
ft>ge will constantly run between Bethel, states, a
starting at Bethlehem evn 7 7o;Xv^'::r n^ and
WILLIAM CRANE
FREDERICK SEUTEI..
May 19,
476
EDUCATION
TSS Jsfc-ssrcwaa &rr"
while other Seminaries, not more produttive have,'"' V™*'
well deserved approbation of the public, from the mtt"'""? " "
of the literati, who have condelcended"t., examin- thcin^l "
not therefore, beamilt to acquaint the uninform J hji ,1 .
ing for this Academy was erected 111 1784 |, v , • ,
vate gentlemen in East Hampton, on Long.'l (] Jnd ™ U;r of P r <-
That it was done for the purpofeol piomoup , , ~j , „
the neighbourhood and ot extending the bleflii.Vs , )t erC!?
so far as application forthem (hould be made I„ ,1.. ■ ""'i
this Academy received a charter of incorporation Vnd? 1 7l
ary 17 88, it was placed on the honoiable efldr.hih -.enr
branch ol the university. A considerable numb-r ,/ V J°'°' '
tlemen have begun their clallical studies hr r 1 ' . 1 ?tn "
pleted them, in different colleges; a conud'eraLic •
now in college, and many more have fim'hcd ,v ■ ,/ , r -
lion at this feminaiy. The departments for miTee'llan.™ ? i""
tion have been more generally improved. In he! " Jsrfl " CJ
bers hav'e reteived some benefit, and more man a tew h2]t
vanced to brilliant acquirements. a(^*
These departments being, for the prefint, commute ■ tnrl
nagementot the Sublcribcr, he isdetermmed to
to the Public by that good order and proficiency oftne S-mT''
which undeniably declare the merit;, of the Inlli ution 7t
fiders Tuition as an essential part ?f hiseinploymcut • hut "
the voluntary attention of his Pupils he deems ftifi more inL!"°
He will tcach those who come only to be Hug it and b ■
vail himfelf of every poff.ble advantage
who are sent to be made Men, as well as Scholars H~ ,
larly sensible of the neceffitvof good discipline and is
at all events, to eftablilh arAppon £ X'Z'
mined to renounce corporal punilhments, as an expedient for, k
[ u "y convinced that the ingenuous mind is bell in.
fiuenced by persuasive motives; and that the most refraftmvt
some latent lenfeof honorand propriety, which bein real! df "t
and properly directed, will
corporal punilhment which a Governor can infltft.
Every branch of common education will be taught i„ these d,
partments.wlth the addition of the French language; IV
pils will be carried to such degrees of perfefhon, in what the,
are required to learn, as their time and genius will admit
Particular attention ,s given to the religious improvement oftne
Scholars, by the Principal, the Rev. Mr. Buell, who daily per.
I lT^eln C Th P^; mtheACad£ ' n >' "" d g ' VtS CVCr > S «^y.
The claflical department, though lately vacated, bvther-ni.
| val of an eminent will be seasonably supplied hvira.
tleman iuitably Qualified for the place • anH rl»r»f i 'i r
ohhi : rtvf rU ftT ,Wi " bC rc S ular 'y altcn ded to, 'auhc XL*
ot thirty-two ihill'ngs per quarter.
FnIl;0, P A Ce / Or fU V!| U ' tiO "' d: P ublic and P r,vale hours, m the
fr f T Apartment, is twent>-f.x lb,llin,;s perqu, r .
ter, exclusive of vacations. There are appointed two vacaiio,,,
a year each, three weeks, and they are to coop.^S
mnn <M. ? ' '"r u firft Wcck - Sc P tcmb ". For thecom-
Fachfcholar who urs '"a -day,- on l y fourteen Ib.llmgs.
and nn tvn threepence per quarter for hisil
and one (hilling per quarter tor the use of books with which the
miscellaneous departments are completely furnifticd
ei/htTo ' 1 ,nClUfiVe " ,o,in * may be had from
roth A if il'ngsper week; so that a scholar being properly
Clothed, and furnifhed with Aiitable utensils for his kufiLfs; t„
Whole expencesfor a year, provided he is absent during the it*
™ ; v Z f1 r T" th pounds; or from that to
oTaccommod'ated *" " th ° fcn that h '' «-ld b^H,
] a n^ aft " am P ton ; ' t s , we " known to be a p!ea£>ntpartol the If- 1
remarkably healthy. The conveyances by water to
and from New-York are regular and frequent; a conlUnt inter
ir t is pit erved with various parts of the continent, and the
remoteness of its situation is more than counterbalanced by the
tranquility of the place, and its conveniencfs for study. The late
generous notice of the legiflatuic of the Hate, in their valuable^-
. ', 0n ?I , c m, " a " cs °f learning, will undoubtedly add wucii
to the ufefulnefs of this Academy x
The Subscriber wUI devote his time, and utmost attention W
the bufinefsof Education here, during the present feafoo, being
With great refpeft,
To the Promoters of Education,
Their most obedient,
And most humble Servant,
By Permiflion )
of the Principal. J
Eajl Hampton, May 3, 1 yg a .
9 continental .£
§ STATE SECURITIES, f
r BOUGHT AND SOI.D, ?!J
" K n. 19G. W.VTEP..STmtT. "fl'
C (pr a gwroa, fine, Kilt begivn so. Military Right,
i ""d 3 e \ fiy Paper Money. ' May 1. 'rV
Q ASH anS a generous price given for Conti
- No. 59. "r*s
James F. Sebor, and
H,ve removed from No. sQ ,^y o _ l8?> n( „^
Wl SECuln h i e |?s n K e^ C,ate all kinds of PUBLIC*
Im T dl2t ?, ly ' aAI "" as an Oilier, one that i>
couraeemtnr ' i'! „ recommended, will in-, et «ith rn-
and fi " dlkad ' cm ; l f v, ?;«. by pulvingwU..-
N F v™- 1 » r i ARCHER GIFrORD,
need apply' ou a pcrfan, and one well recommcndcd
V Newark, May 1*790.
tei^tcT h L INDEX 1° t: '. C si, il Vn!a,,:c the Gazette of tho U"i
---l readv I Rl T', n? Ap J " i I'SO.l ' S O. and end,- Apr,; ,4, i}*.
pose to b3ve e the C n" 1 " e i>ers g IZ' 1 d U Subrcriben wh0?ro "
' m P re ]fi(i>i of this paper bavin? bet ft
4* C -l "ft J r ™ l the ccnimencemt/it of the f.cond vol.
frnl, ,' 4 ' d}f!o '"dine to beco;/;; fubferiht
couple at r '° ' may be J urnijh id -aha t'h; number*
JST/Sj. y^y-P 1 = .«/•' V/-«j Me ftr 7-
Sunday'' /v ~ after Seven elery Morning,
• D '"" " *«»/«&, «<, r«tts'w w ifr.l
WILLIAM PAXMfii •