4
* P . ... .1 -■ . —
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEXKO, No. |vBROA'D-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YQKK.
[No. zo, if Vol. 11.]
THE TABLET.—r-No. CXX.IV.
*' A oftencr has tccafton to guide tht pub
r .:c opinion, than to bt guidtd ,by it."
IHAV.'J observed that there is a gajiera] dis
position in legiflarfct's to consult and follow
what they call the public opinion. Whether
c'his regard to the public voice proceeds from a
with to gain popularity, uu ,froni a real desire to
promote the public welfare, is not material la the
purpose of this eflay. It mult be prefunied that
legislators acft with as much purity of intentions
as other men, and that the tendency rather than
the motives of their conduct ihould be made a
fubjedt of examination. The frequent reference
to the public opinion, in legillative afiemblies,
seems to pre-fuppofe two things ; one u, that the
popular sentiment is fixed, and cun he definit
]y ascertained ; and the other, that it ought
to be deemed proper and obligatory upon the
legislature Boththefecenclufions however Ihould
be adopted under some iclh rdions. As I hive
before touched upon this subject, in the 7th and
Stli numbers of my speculations, I lhall be the
less diffufe on this occalion.
That the public opinion cannot be diltinguiih
ed by unequivocal marks, may be jnK;j*re<) from
its being quoted by persons, who, in the (amp de
bate, are advocating oppofue fides of the quef
lion. It is certain botli cannot be perfectly in
the right ; and yet neither seems able to prove
that the other is absolutely in the wrong. From
this circumstance, I conclude that the public
opinion is often too indefinite to be admitted as
a rule of conducfu If indeed we are to jrT.her the
public opinion by obtaining that of every indi
vidual in the community, it would be not only
ffn<siuating, It would amount
to nothing. Men, living ia different diftrkis of
the comm unity,or purfiung diifcrent occupations,
cftnnot be supposed to have an cxaft fTiuUarjty of
opinions and feelings. Were the various clafiis
of people to be confuked, it» fur.as
xo render their advice obligatory, tlicy would re
commend such a contrariety of meafui es,as would
lead to conlulion, and terminate in the dilfolu
tion of civil society. To avoid the perplexity of
putting into operation luch clashing views, a le
<jiflature is formed ; whole duty it is~to leprefent
those various diftriifis and occupations. Such a '
leprefentative bodylhould bring together all the '
inferefting faifts that relate to their constituents, ]
and from an aggregate view of their rircumftan
ces, adopt fucli expedients as will equalize rhe ad
vantages and burdens of government. In this
manner the lharp points of local interests and
willies may be worn off, and a fy Item of laws
enacted, that w ill in the greatest degree embrace
the general intereflandconvenience. The legi
llature therefore have only to consult the public
welfare, and their laws will generally create a
common consent in their favor, though there pfe
exifted 110 general sentiment relative to the af
fair ; or even though there did pre-exifta gener
al sentiment contrary to the tenor of luch laws.
There is scarce an individual who ascends from
a piivate into a public situation, but will find he I
liad entertained ideas refpetfting legislation that
were erroneous and partial. Mod men will have
the candor to confels, that their moll pertinent
opinions, in public matters, have been the result
of experience. And however they were disposed
to gratify the wishes, and promote the interest
ofevery class of their constituents, they are flill
conftrtuned to believe that the public good is a
very different thing from the views and prejudi
ces of individuals. There are some occalions
where the public opinion will be ftcady and uni
form, and where it inuft and will control the le
gislature.' In my next , number 1 will enter into
some exemplification of the subject.
Extraß from a late Proclamation of the Covtrnor of,
Vermont, appointing a Jay of fa fling and prayer.
■TMIA F tlie Supreme Governor of the Universe
-8- would remove every obstacle put of the way.
ct the reception of this State into the Federal Un
ion— tliat he would bless the Uiiited States of A-
Jiierica—fucceed their councils at home, and ne
gotiations abroad—preserve and ftrengtheti their
Union, bless their allies, and render the connec
tion formed with them mutually beneficial—that
he would grant wisdom and council to their legi
llativc, executive, and judiciary departments, v nnd
that he would prolonp and render eminently
ufehi! thelifc of the Preii'Jent oithe United States
of Amcrica.
SATURDAY, JUNE 19, 1790
AT THA IEQOKO JESfiION.
Begun and held at the City 00 Monday the fouith
of January, one th(*u(a^ickfevenhundred and, ninety.
AN ACT for giving E(Fec> to the fcveral Ads
therein juentiopro, in r-ei;>3& to the State of
Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
BE it mailedhvticSeijle mid Hats: d •?eprcfrttitivcs of (he Uni
ted States of 4*ttlCtitt. £ait,rtt/t afjti hUd, Thai the fevcral and
r(.if\c£h?c ilutus aui laid n» ,i"(t by the a& t intituled,
11 An aCi far laying a duty pp (*oor!s, \4trrs ->nd merchandizes im
pottirtl into,the Unittß S;Mcs,'* an din c*vkl by the aef, intituled,
" An att iiupofing <fu tflts- on toniaf)' shall p<? paid and coll
ed upon all wares and metchandmrs, which after the ex
piration of five days from the palling astmj ast, lhall be imported
into the S*ate of Rhode-Island and Pru/.dence Plantations from
any foreign port or plice, anc( upon <\c tonuagr of ail tbip> and
veirels which afirr the f a ,d d*y fh.vil he entered wit .in the said
State ot Rhode-Jfljnd and Providen-e Plantauons, fubjeft to the
exceptions, qualifications, alk>* <*oce» syid abatements in the said
atts contained or which atUlhall be deemed to have
the like 'force and operation within thr hid State of Rhode-Island
and Providence Plantations, as elffcwhetc Wuhin the United
States.
And bf it further /na£UJ % That collision of- ihe said
t here fhjlJ be m the said Slate oi Rhode-Island and Provi
dence flirtation's. t4ro diftridts, to wit* the diitridfc of Newport,
and the tiiftnft of Province. The diftnft of Newport thall
comprehend all the waters, shores, bay*, harbors, creeks and in
lets, tiom the Will line of the all along the fea-coalk,
and noi ihwaid up the jr ragout, ! .i. 1. twit »»Ic-• !y
Mnnimuut point at high water mark ; arid fhill in<Jw(ie
the fcveral towns, harbors and landing peaces at Westerly, Charlef
town, South-Kingstown, NOl Eaft-GTeenwich, and
alj that part ot the town ot Warwick Southward of the latitude of
Kmnimicul-potnt ; and also the towfts, harbors and landing
plaees of Barrington, Warren, Bristol, Tiverton, Little-©ompton f
and all the towns, harbors and landing places of the island of
Rhode-island, Kinnunicut, Prudence, New-Shoreham, and eve
ry oiher island and place within the said State Southward of the
latitude of the (aid Kinnimicut-point. The diftri£l ot Providence
shall comprehend all the waters, shores, bays, harbors, creeks and
inlets within the laid State Northward of the latitude of said Kin
nimicut-point. The town ot Newport shall be sole port of entry
in the said diftrift of Newport, and a collc&or, naval-othcer and
surveyor ihall be appointed to reside at the said town of Newport;
and North-Kingllown, Jkaft-Greenwich, Barrington, Warren, Bris
tol, and Pawcatuck river in Westerly, shall be ports of delivery
only, and a surveyor shall be appointed to reside at each of the
ports of North-Kingstown, East-Greenwich, Warren, Bristol and
Pawcatui k river, and the surveyor to reside at Warren (hall be
surveyor tor the port ot Barrington. The town of Providence
shall be the sole port of entry in the said diftnft of Providence,
and Patuxet in the fame diftrift shall be a port of delivery onlv ;
and a colledor, naval-officer and surveyor shall be appointed to
reside at Providence, and a surveyor lhall be appointed to reside
at Patuxet.
And be ♦/further er.afied, That all the regulations, provisions,
exceptions, allowances, compeniations, directions, authorities,
penalties, forfeitures and other matters whatsoever contained or
cxpreired in the ast, intituled, " An ast to regulate the collection
of the duties imposed by law on the tonnage of lhips or vefTels,
and 011 goods, wares and merchandizes imported into the United
States," and not locally inapplicable, shall have the like force and
ctfeft within the said State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plan
tations, for the collection of the said duties, as elsewhere within
the United States, and as if the fame were repeated and re-enaCted
in this present act. Provided always ■, and be it declared, That the
thirty-ninth ftftion of the said ast, and the third seCtion of an aCt r
intituled, 44 An ast to suspend part of an ast, intituled, " An aCt
to regulate the collection of the duties imposed by law on the ton
nage of (hips or vessels, and on goods, wares and merchandizes
imported into the United States, and for other purpof s," did, by
virtue ot the adoption of the Confiitution of the United States by
the said State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, cease
to operate in refpcCt to the fame.
Andbeit further enafled, That the ast intituled, "An ast for
regiflering and clearing vessels, regulating the coasting trade, and
for other purposes," shall, after the expiration of five days from
the palling of this ast, have the like force and operation within
the State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, as else
where within the United States, and as if the several clauses there
of wcie repeated and re-enacted in this present act.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Reprefentattves.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-PrcfidentoJ the United States.
and President of the Senate.
Approved, June the fourteenth, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
(Tku£ Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
ANECDOTE.
THE poor old Man who quitted his native hills, and from the
summit of Mount Ju it a, undertook a journey to Versailles,
to behold and retuin thanks to the National Assembly for the vote
which had freed him and his poor countrymen from the feudal
yok.r, died litely at Pans, at the prodig'ous trz 0 f 1;1 years.
493
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTA I IVES.
TUESDAY, MAY 25.
Mr. Gerr\'s motion $nt e ajjumf fion oj th: 'State debts, ivfiicK wat
injerted in this piper of the I6M, under confi deration
MR. m man.— Ilic (jutllion now under conlider.;liou i ,
whtliujf the State debts that have been contrived fbr ihe be
nefit of the Union ftiall be aflutned by the I) iiiied Stales. Tins
11 eircniul pan of thefyftenl repotted by the Secretary of thr
Tredfui y for funding the National debt. The fubftan eof the at
gumenrsin favor of the affuuipticn are . *
1. That the debts were contracted on behalf and for the benefit
o the United States, and therefore jufticc that thev ibouid
be assumed.
2. That fame ftatcs have t?.kcn upon thcmfelvcs giea;er {firni
t! an othets, and beyond ihcir just proportions or abilities to pa).
3. That the funds oiitof which thefc debts outfit to be paid, are
by tiie constitution put under the direction of tta fedual govern
ment, and this has been done by the authority of the people, since
the debrs were ( outraged, and tor the cxprei's purpose of payinj*
the debts of the United States, ot which these are a par., and there
fore ought to tbllow the funds
4. That the imports andexcifes, f« far as excises may be neces
sary, can be best managed under 1 one dirc&lon,
5. That equal justice ought to be done to all the creditor?;, but
this cannot be done by the individual ftatrs, some of th< tn
unable to make the nccefTary provilion, they bein-j burchcnod be
yond their quota, and deprived of their former revenues.
6. That the mcature is founded in good policy, as well as juftit e
as it will promote harmony among the ditlerent clafies or credit
ors, and among the fevcra! fhtes, and attich them to the gov; rr.-
m nt, fnd facilitate its operations.
I (hall now take notice of some of the principal obje&ions.
1. It is said that the accounts ot the teVeral ftatcs with the Uni
t d ought 10 be felllcti. X agree that no pavmeut to
le made to thelites unfil their accounts are fettled. But that
not to etfeft the rtyjits ot individuals, who have liquid, ted
claims for (Vrviccs or fupphts tendered for the ben: fit of the Uni
on, whc.h r the contrail was made with a member, or an offi
cer ot the United States. It is not in the power of thele crcduois
to compel a fettleineni, nor ought their claims to be p< llponed or
affiled for want ot Inch f.-ttlement, tut suCh of the fccunties is
may be the property ot a state are on a different footing
2. It is objected that when the it ites Look tne debts eta thenj
felves, they expected 10 pay then. This cannot br admitted with
out some explanation—by the confederation all charges of war,&c.
incuned tor the common defence and geueral welfare were to be
paid out of a common Treasury, which was to be supplied by the
fcveral totes, paying in their refpcttive quotas, and a final adjuft
mcnt ot the accounts was to b« made ; and the individual ilatcs ex
petted that all the sources ot revenue would remain in their hands,
out cf which if.-, v expe&td to pay ti*t:r <juyut of«H thedchtt and
expences of the Union : But by a revolution in g&vernmem, rh£.
revenues are put undtr the power of the federal government, tor
the express purpose of paying the debts, fj that the Qiode of pay
ment is materially altered, and the obligation transferred froau it:c
individual Hates to the United Scares,
3. It is objected that this is a new proje£l— and not mentioned
in the conAitutioo. The novelty of it is no just objection againlt
adopting it— if the measure be just. It was mentioned in the ge
neral convention—but it was nor thought necetfary 01 proper to
insert it in the conllitution, for Congrels would have lulticieut
power to adopt it if they Ihould judge it expedient.
4. It is favd that the Hates mod urgent tor this mcafurc are not
incapacitated by adopting the new constitution for paying their
debts. .
Anf. The states moflburthened with debts, and the only ones
who expected to have sums greater than their quotas assumed, are
Massachusetts and South-Carolina, and these depended chiefly on
impost, of which ihey are now wholly deprived.
Connecticut docs not wish, or expect to have n*>re of her debt
assumed, than her just quota of the whole sum to be assumed, so
that no other state will bear arly greater burthen on her account.
The debt of New-Hampshire will not amount to half the sum of
her quota, of ihe 4 bts proposed to be assumed, but i"he has been
id favor of thcjmealure on principles of justice and national policy.
But a very fallacious argument has been advanced refpefting the
ratio in which some dates contribute to the common funds by way
of import : And it comes with a very ill grace from the gentle
man who advanced it, bccaufe it is so fully refuted by the report
of a committee of the late Congress, of which rommittee, he was
a member. It appears on the journal of the 29th April 1783, page
203, whereby it is (hewn that the several states contribute- by *
general impo«t, in portion to the number of their inhabitants,
whether the articles are imported, and the duties paid, in the state
in which they are consumed or not, as the tax is ultimately paid
by the confumers—(Here a part of the journal was read.^
5, It is odjefted that it will be difficult to discriminate the
state debtscontracted for the Union, from their other debts : But
what neceflity is there for such a difcrtmmation, if only certain
sums are assumed, and the states charged with them, the whole
will be adjufL-d among the states 011 the settlement of their ac
counts ; besides their debts for other purposes arc lnconfidcrablc.
6. Objection, if only part of the state debts be assumed, equal
justice will not be done to all the creditors.
Anfwcr, The small sums that will remain of the debts of any of
the states can, and doubtless will be, as well provided for by the
lefpeftive states, as those assumed, will by the United States.
It is proposed to assume the whole of the debts, of the states ot
New-Hampshire, New-York, New-Jersey, Pennsylvania, Deli
waie, Maryland, Virginia and Georgia* and the small sums that
will remain of the debts, of Maffachufctts, Connecticut, North-
Caroling and South-Carolina, can easily be provided lor by those
Slates. —
j. It has been obje&ed that Virginia has made great exertions
in complying with the specie requilitions of Congress, and in fink
ing a considerable part ot the principle of her debts, since the
peace, and therefore it would be inequitable to incrcafe her bur
then by alfuming the debts of other States which have not made
like exertions.
The answer is, that it is not proposed to lay any additional bur
then on that State. The amount of the State debis to be assumed
will not exceed 23 millions of dollars ; the debt of Virginia to
be assumed amounts to 3,681,000 dollars, which is something
more than that State's quota ot the whole sum to be assumed, in
proportion to its number of Representatives, so that the mteretfcof
Virginia would be no otherwise affected by the assumption than
by transfering its debt, from its particular fund to the common
fund?. It is also proposed, to aflume of the debts of Connecticut
end North-Carolinr, the just amount of their refpechve quous of
the whole lum proposed to be assumed.
[Whole No'i ; i'24-]8. It is obje&ed, that the debts of George art not on mterefh
9» thing 10 the pu.polc can be interred fbdWhis objjc
*ion, it is in favor of the alTumption ; for, if the debts are just,.
they ought immediately to be paid, or put on i mere ft,
9. It is objected, that the debt of the United States will be fs»
increased by the aflfumptiort of the State debt?, as to make dirc&
taxes or exciies necelTary'to be laid by Cougrefs, which Would be
odious to the people,
Anfvprr, The allumption of the State debts is a part of the
plan reported by the Secretary of the Treafuvy.—He does not pro
pose Qireft taxes, nor excises, further than those that have already
been adopted by the house—and I think some reliancc ou<»ht to
be had on the opinion of the oiHcer whom goverment have pla
ced at the head of the department ot finance.
The whole ot the debts must be paid by the citizens of the
United States ; they do now exist, and government is under obli
gation to do jutlice to all the creditors. The people bave put all
the fourcesot revenue in the power of Congress, for that purpose,
and will doubtkf* be fatisfied with their administration of them.
The resources of the nation will be abundantly fufficienr, it pru
dently managed, to pay the annual interest of the debt, and gra
dually to discharge the principal with n a reasonable time. The
Wciicrn territoi y if properly diipofed of, will fink a confidera
blc part of the national debt, it was observed that excises are
the inyft cxpenfive taxes to collect, but Dr. Smith, on the wealth
of nations, fay#, that in Britain the colle£lionot excises colls at
the rate of but 5 per cent, but that imports coil at the rate of 10
percent, this is according to my bell recollc&ion. I have not
the book now before me.
10. It is obje&cd, that the fecuritjes will probably center in
large towns, or get into the hands of foreigners.—l think it is l
probable that the Tec unties, will center in the hands of such citi
zens in the several States, as flull chufc to live on the interest of
their capital; and in the hands of corporate bodies inilituted to
proipote fciencc and other ufcfuT purposes ; but the fccurities will
not get out of the pofTeflion of the original owners without their
consent, nor (if well funded) will they be induced to part with
rhem for less than their jufl value, and it is reasonable that ihey
(hould be left at liberty to dispose ot their own property.
xi. It is objc£l"d, that funds arc not to be provided for the
State debts this ftflion, and we do not know what may be the o
pinions of our fuccefiors. Answer, The provision is proposed to
be made by the present Congress at their next fcilion.
12. Objection, the house ?re divided in sentiment, and it will
tje fafer to negative the proportion, than to adopt it by a small
majority.—lt appears to rap that the greatefl fafety will pe on the
other fide, there is no difputc about the juflice of the claims ot
the creditors, the only point in dispute is, which would be the
moftexpedient mode ot payment, and which would be moil
agreeable to the public opinion. My reafons'for fuppofuig that
u will be fafer to adopt the measure by a small majority than to
negative it, is, beccaufe people arc more influenced by their feel
ings, than by speculative rcafonings, or ntcccalculations. If the
debts arc assumed, what inconveniences will the people feel from
it? and, if they reason upon it, they will find that no injuflice
will ultimately lake place, but all will be set right by a liquida
tion ot the accounts. But if the (late debts are not assumed and
the creditors are not provided for by the llates, or if the dates are
fubje&ed to heavy direst taxesin making the provision, thtfe evils
will be severely felt; and mud create uneafmefs and complaints
which may prove very prejudicial to the administration ot go
vernment.
13. It is said that 44 several of the legiflaturcs have lately been in
fcllion and have not applied to Congreis or inllru&cd their repre
sentatives to obtain an adumption of the fl.ue debts."
I think their opinions cannot be inferred from their silence on
the fubjeft.—ln matters that concern only the particular mlereft
of a state, the Hate may properly|infti uft their representatives, wi:o
in such cafe would ast only as agents for the state ; but in matters
■which concern the Union in general, such interference might be of
dangerous tendency, for all the members ought to beat perfect li
berty to a£i their best and unbiassed judgment, upon public mea
furcs, according to the light and information that may be obtain
ed by a public difcuillon of them in the house which may not be
known to the Icgiflaturcs of the particular dates. I have endea
vored briefly to give the reasons which have induced me to be in
favor of this measure, and to obviate the objections that have been
made to it, which I submit to the opinion of the committcc,
without troubling them with any obfery^tions
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FROM THE LEYDEN GAZETTE
Pubhftied by Stephen Lizac.
[The translations from the Leydcn Gazette which were commenc
ed in this paper some weeks part, are again resumed. Although
the dates are old, the Editor conliders the authenticity of that
paper of such importance, as lo merit the infection of its con
tents, which will serve to check European accounts that are pub
liflicd in this country, received through other channels. A fuc
ccflion of intelligence derived from this source, will be con
stantly kept up, as regularly as the papers c< > e to hand, and the
eftabhfhed veracity and reputation of the J-eyden Gazette will
warrant perfett dtpendaacc to be placed on any intelligence it
may contain.]
LEYDEN, Feb. 19, 1790,
ACCOUNTS from Hungary of the 26th of Ja
nuary, inform that general meetings hi>ve
been held in the several counties—thw at a meet
ing of the nobility of the county of Prelburg,
Count Charles Palsy d'Erdody, chancellor of the
kingdom, was present. That certain resolutions
were read at a second meeting palled at a former,
•which were confirmed and sent by an expreft to the
Emperor. That universal joy prevailed through
out the kingdom, from a report that the Empe
ror was about reinstating Hungary in all its anci
ent privileges and usages. Of the 22 articles con
taining the fubjetls of grief which the Hungari
ans required to be redrefled, his Majeity content
ed to 19. Excepting only 3, which are, tolerati
on in religion, the care of thq national studies,
and the rightof judging between the chiefs of
the kingdom and the otherfubjedls. Confequent
]y the use of the German language which the
Hungarians opposed so much, will no longer be
necefTary in the tribunals and public a<fis, and
Latin will again be resumed. The crown will
be restored to the custody of the nation, and the
coronation is to take place as soon as possible.
What is of still greater importance, the register
for taxing lands, according to the new system
which the Kmperpr wiihed to introduce through
out his states, is absolutely given up with refpevfl
to Hungary.
The foregoing accounts are confirmed by alet
rer from Vienna, of the 29th of January, whicjj
moreover mentions, that the •German l'rov hires
are. in expectation ps being reitored to then
former Conftitutioa and privileges.
PROGRESS OF THE BRABANT REVOLUTION.
By a letter from Brufl'els of the 14th of Febru
ary, it appears thg; a mifundej Handing prevails
among the leaders of the revolutionists. Ihe
Duke d'Urfel, prelident of the war department,
had retigned, alfigning his bad Hate of health as
a real on—-A writing was handed about, setting
forth other reasons for his retiring, particularly
that he did nocchooi'eto serve with Baron Schon
feld, a prulfian general, who had been taken in
to pay by Congress, with the rank of lieu", gene
ral, and to connnan.l the foreign troops in their
service ; which nieafure he conceived contrary to
the interest of his country, and countenanced by
a Congress fublervient to the committee of Breda,
of which Mr. Vat Noot was the chief agent.
The Duke contm ted this writing, but in terms
which (till im; lii idiii.. "action with public
measures. At the ■ er> < .>n of the five compa
nies of Brutiel volume he has resumed his
port. To remove li'i f' ■ rust, he has been in
formed of the "gi and 1 - lecret, till that time un
known, of connections formed with foreign
courts—these connections are not generally ap
proved of, and it would appear that Mr. Van der
Noot's interest is on the decline.
The adherents of the revolution are divided
into parties, which are differing more a;id more
from each o^her —the one party coniifts of those
who wtlh to support what is called the present con
jlitution ; that is to fay the arrangements by
which the Assembly of the three Eftateshave tak
en polleflion of the sovereignty, without the con
sent of the people, which constitution tends to an
oligarchy of the worst kind, a clerical oligarchy.
In order to support this system, the states of Bra
bant resolved to administer an oath of fidelity to
the corps called fermms, some of that body took
it whilst the greater partiefufed, requesting that
it fliould be printed, to fee whether it was con
formable to the interest of the country. This
refulal created great debates in the states. Duke
d'Ahreniberg with his brothers, Count de laMarck
and Prince Lewis d'Ahremberg, together with
Duke d'Urfel, are M the head ofthe otlier party
and poffels the confidence of the people, as the
illustrious defenders of their rights not only
again ft the efforts of the Auftrians, but likewise
against the projects of those who without the
consent of the nation have feifced the excluftve
management of affairs.
The divisions and animosities run very high.
The Three Estates of Brabant have opened afub
fcription for the fdpport of their troops, under
the direction of the clergy, together with tlie ma
gi ft rates of the different cities. The Abbi Ton
gerloo, one ofthe principal members of the com
mittee of Breda, has raised a regiment at his own
expence, commanded by Major Van der Gracht.
Both parties seem disposed to call in foreign aid
to their ailiftance, the popular party looks up to
France. To be continued.
The following ADDRESS from the Heu rf. \v Conc reg at ion of
the (try oj Savannah, was on Monday fr-fented to the PRESIDED!
oj the United States, by Sir. Jackson, one ojthe RepreJenUtwcs of
Georgia. J
SIR,
WE have been anxious of congi aiulating you on your
appointment by unanimous approbation to the Presiden
tial dignity of this country, and of teftifyiug out; unbounded con
fidence in your integrity and unblemifhcd virtue : Yet, however
exalted the llation you now fil-l, it 13 still not equal to the merit of
your heroic fervicct. through an arduous and dangerous conilift
which has embosomed ybu in the hearts of her citizens.
Our eccentric situation added to a diffidence bounded on the
molt profound refpeft has thus long picvcnted our address, yet
the delay has realized anticipation, given us an opportunity of prc
fenting our grateful acknowledgments for the benedictions of
Heaven through the energy of Federal influence and the equity of
your administration. 7
Your unexampled liberality and extenfwe philanthropy have
dispelled that cloud of bigotry and superstition, which has long as
a veil (haded religion—unrivctted the fetters of cnlbufiafra—-en
franchilcd us with all the privileges and immunities of free cili
zens, and initiated us into the grand mass of kgiflat.vc mcchan
ilm. By example you have taught us to endure the ravages of
war with manly fortitude, and to enjoy the blessings of peace
with icverence to the Deity, and benignity and love to our Fellow'
Creatures.
Ma; the great author of worlds grant you all happintls— an un
interrupted fer.es of heakh—addition of years to the number of
your days and a commence of gusrdianlhip t~ that freedom
which under the auspices of Heaven your magnanimity and wif
dom have given thele States. '
To which the President was pleased to return the following answer
To the Hebrew Congregation of the City of
• Savannah.
GENTLEMEN,
T THANK you, with great finer,ity, for your congratulations
1 n mpptorn'm..,,, .!,,*,, which I have the honor to
hold by the unanimous thoice of my fellow-citizens • and efoc
cully lor the expressions which you are pleased to use in teftif y {,,g
the confidence that is rdpnfed in me by your congregation.
As the delay which has naturally intervened between mv eler
tion and your address afforded 'an opportunity JappJecl "
the merits of the federal government, and for communicatee
vour femimems of .ts admin,llration-I have rather to express my
fatisfaftion than regret .taccumftance, which dcmonftra.es (un
b^„To?tTete Ura,taChmentto ,heform "' "-"asapU.
I rejoice that a spirit of liberality and philanthropy is much
more prevalent than u formerly was among the enlighten J
.ions of the earth ; and that you, ll;'"
pioportion as it (hall bccumc ft,II morc exlcnGve. Happily
494
LEVI SHEFTAL, Prcjiiat,
in bthaljojthe Hebrew Congregation.
people ofihe Ua'ited States of America have, in many
exhibited e : les worthy of i 'nittlion. Tiic Salutary influence,
of which will douDtlrfa cxu.iui much farther, if gratefully enjoy
ing those bleflings of peace which (under favor ol Heaven) h a ,j
bcei. obtained by fortitude >" war, iliey lhall condu£i t> —'■ '
with rcvercncc to the Deity ; and charity towards their fellowl
creatures.
May the fame wonder-working D 'ity, who, long since deliver,
ing the Hebrews from their Egyptian oppr< ifors, planted them «
the promised land—whose proviriencial agency has lately b«„
conspicuous in eftablilhiug these United States as an Independent
Nation—dill continue to water them with the dews of Heaven
and to make the inhabitants of every denomination paoiapuc
the temporal and spiritual blelTmgs of that people, whose Goo a
Jehovah. G. WASUIMGTQv^
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OK REPRESEN TA i IVES.
WEDNESDAY, JUNS 16.
HON. JOHN SEVIER, member from the State
of North Carolina, appeared, proUuctd his
credentials, and took his feat in the Huufe.
A ineflage was received from the Pieiident of
the United States, with the ratification ofthe
Constitution of the United S.ates by the State of
Rhode Illand.
1 he House resolved itfelf into a committee ol
the whole, on the Polt-Office bill Surnln
amendments were made, and the difcufiioti ofthi
whole finifhed.—The committee then rose, an<
reporte-d the fame.
The lloufetook the amendments into consider
ation.
The firft: amendment respected the particular
routs to the various parts of the United States by
which the mail is to be carried Several al
terations were made in two tedious, on motion
ofindividual members.
Mr. Sedgwick after observing that it wnsim
poffible for every particular member perfectly to
understand the reasons on which a variety of al
terations had been agreed to—He inftancedche
establishment of roads, to several places, which
run nearly parrallel.—Gentlemen said lie, who
move for different establishments, may fully un
derstand themselves in the motions they make
but for his own part he confefl'ed, that he could
give as good a reason for his negative, as his af
firmative, on several that have been adopted
He therefore moved that the two firft claiifes ihould
be struck out—and offered a claitfe as a fubllitute
which w 5 to authorize the Post-Master-General,
with the approbation of the President of the Uni
ted States, to establish the Poll Roads from Wif
caflett in Maflachnfetts, to Savanna in Georgia.
This motion was objected to by Mr.Hartley,Mr.
Livermore, Mr. White, and Mr. Gerry. It was
observed that a similar ciaufe had been rejedted
by thecommittee of the whole, when the firft bill
was before them.—lt was further said that it can
not be supposed that the Post-Master-General
knows what routs are jnoft-eligible better than
many of the members—the constitutionality of
the motion was doubted. Those in favor of the
motion stated the difficulties which would proba
bly arise upon the present plan—if a road is el
tablifhed which is found on trial to be improper,
it will be difficult to alter it—and at any rate it
cannot be done without an atft of the legislature.
In reply to the objection ofthe unconltitution
ality of the motion, it was said the motion goes
no farther than delegating a power 10 an execu
tive officer, consonant to the office which he fuf
tains,inftead of the House, attempting to exercise
that power,when it does not appear that it can be
exercised by them—besides, if the discretionary
power is unconstitutional, there are several other
parts of the bill which are unconstitutional, for
the power of establishing such extra roads as to
him may appear neceflary, is veiled in the Post-
Master General. If the House mean to avoids
great deal of unneceflary buffnefs, which will
probably come before them in petitions to abolilh
old roads, and establish new ones, thepropofuion
appears neceflary.
The motion was negatived by a great majority.
The amendment of the firft and second feftions
were agreed to. Several new roads werepropo
fed to be added—when Mr. Boudinot observed,
that he plainly perceived it would be neceflary to
veil f'ome discretionary power in the Poft-Ma'i er "
General, relative to this particular objert—for he
veiy much apprehended that the roads already
i agreed to, would render the P'oft-Office a very
great burden on the United States. — These
obfei vations were followed by a motion for an
I adjournment—which took place.
THURSDAY, JUNE 17.
The ratification of the Constitution of the Uni
ted States by the State of Rhode Island and Pro
vidence Plantations, with the amendments an
nexed, were read.
The bill to authorise the purchasing of Weft-
Point was read the second and third time—anc
palled.
Mr. Giltnan of the committee to whom was re
conimittted the bill for the regulation and govern
mem offeamenin the Merchants' service, report'
ed that the committee had agreed to sundry 3-
mendments to said bill, which helaid on the table-
Mr. Vining presented the memorial of Wm-
Piery, which was read, and referred to the Se
cretary of the Treasury.
-rr:Tile bill providing for the settlement of the ac
counts between the United States and individual
States, as amended, was read, and on motion of
Mr. Fitzfimons (who observed that the bill as it
now (lands, was materially altered from the ori
ginal report) was ordered to be printed, and made
, he order of the day for Monday next.
The petition of Adam Caldwell, on motion of
Mr. Vining, was taken up and referred to a feleft
■committee- Mr. Scot, Mr. Sedgwick, and Mr.
Vining, v/ere named by the Speaker.
Mr. Gerry, moved the following resolution, —
That a committee be appointed to consider and
report whether any, and what fee 9, perquisites,
or emoluments, (hall be annexed to the ollice of
Consul or Vice-Conful. This was referred to a
committee of three members.
The House took up the amendments of the
Committee of the whole to the Poft-Ottke bill—
some of which were agreed to—others tejected
and several new ones made. The bill being
finilhed—it was ordered that icSbe engrolled for a
third reading. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, JUNE i 3.
On motion of Mr. Fit/.iimons tne House rcfumed the confidcra
tion of the bill for ycpcaliag, after the lad day of————— next
the duties heretofore laid on fp' r its, &c.
The qucftioa on the bill was, whether it (hould beengro.Ted for
a third reading.
Mr. S: \\i moved for a recommitment to a fcle£l committee,
Who v icto be mftru&cd to report a plan of ways and means, a-
» > a resolution laid on the tabic a tew days fiucc.
• ion was negatived.
. zfimons proposed a clause cnabl.ng the proprietor, im-
to make a dcpolit of part of the dutied arti
urity for the duties in lieu of additional bonds, This
igrcvd to.
M'\ P.. r !<. i moved that the bill (hould be re tor red to the Secre
tary of the Trcafury, with inftru&ions to report a.i'yilciu ot ways
anu means, exclufivc of an cxcife. Mr. Parker oblervcd, that
he Ihould think hirafejf obliged to vote againil the bill in its pre
sent form ; but it the cxcife is disposed of, he would give a bill
providing the ways and means all the support in his power -this
motion was f conded by Mr. Bloodworih, but after ioine de
bate was negatived.
A motion made by Mr. Gerry for (hiking out the two fe&tons
which piovide for Uying an excise, occafioncd considerable de
bate, and was finally determined by ayes and noes, a-> follows :
Messrs Burke, Coles, Gerry, Goodhue, Griffin, Grout, Hu»er,
Heiltcr, Moore,Muhlenberg,Page, Parker, Scdgwick,Smith, (S.C )
Steele, Sumptcr, Thatcher, Tucker, White. 19.
Messrs Ames, Afhe, Baldwin, Benfon, Bloodworth, Boudinot,
Brown, Cadwallader, Carrol, Contcc, Fitzfirions, Floyd, Foftcr,
Gale, Gilman, Ha*.ley,Hathornc, Huntington, Jack.!or>,Lawrancc,
JLeon&rd, Livermore, Matthews, Kcnfellatr, Scot, Soiey, Sevier,
Sherman, Sylveftcr, Sinmckfon, Stone, Trumbull, Wadfworth,
tVynkoop, Wiliiainfop. 35.
Majority against diking out 16.
Sundry other amendments were proposed Come of which were
adopted, otiters negatived ; the ijuc (lion for engrof
ling was not put, when the Houfs adjourned to Monday 10 o'clock.
N E W-Y O RK, June 19,
on the (i De'fencc of the American Conftitu
thus, 19 hi a Utter to a friend.
I have read the defence of the American Con
futations, aiul admire the intelligence, sagacity,
sind firmnefs, with which it is written.—
At firit it appeared to me, that where there was
no diltin<ftioii of rank in the people, there was no
neceHity of a balance—bat the author has proved
, his point molt fatisfadtorily, and the impractica
bility of one general aHembly all that remains
is to secure that balance everlaftingly,wliich there
js much reason to fear and dread being broke.—
In the Engliili Constitution, so beautiful in the
ory, and which the author so much admires, it is
totally lolt.—
The representatives do not speak the voice of
the people—the crown being hereditary, and the
I.ords and Eifhops its creatures, and considered
as the fountain from which all honors flow.—The
army and navy at its disposal—and all taxes add
ing to its power from the increase of collec'tors.
A King so powerful, and from refpe<ft, interest,
and fear, and theroifapplicationof texts ol scrip
ture to the name and office of a King, there is
danger of his being esteemed and venerated as
God's-Vicegerent—which weakness gaining pof
i'elfion of the minds of the people is rarely got
rid of.
Therefore my only fear is, that when one per
son is continued for any length of time, by rle
fign or collusion, or hereditary with diftinjruifhed
honors, he will insensibly avail liinifelf of his si
tuation, and preponderate ill the balance, and
Overturning the whole, commence Tyrant.
The circuniftance of the Americans' being
fpriivkled over large tracts of land, may secure
them from want, and prevent the contagion ot
■vi.ee and folly—as large cities are deftru&ive of
virtue—Yet 1 doubt much if liberty is not more
secure by that means—as upon any sudden attack
upon the liberties of the people, the alarm is
quickly spread, and conveyed thro numbers, and
the refinance would be inftantaneous —whereas
in the other cafe, it requires time to be known,
more to collect together to communicate fenti
,ments,and unite in a body. Short duration and
rotation of power seem the only certain securi
ties—the people having the sword—nine tenths
on the fide of the people weighs in the balance.—
I am pleased with the idea of the balance of
affections and appetites under the monarchy of
reason and conscience—the only monarchy which
will ncyer deviate from its true principles. —
It appears ucceflary that every pollible means
AYES.
NOES.
should be pointed out to fecurc the balance, and
reinftateit, if broken in upon. The Englilh sys
tem wants the application offuch remedies—it
will then, in the language of Thucidides, " be a
potfefliofi forever."
PARIS, April 12.
THE National guard last night seized on 17
calks of specie, which were conveying from
the Iloyal Treasury for some secret service.
Ceutinels were immediately placed over the feiz
jre, and it is laid this pratftice of transporting
pecie has been carrying on for fame weeks pait.
T A • 1 _r>
LONDON", April 18.
The charge which General Vander Merfcli i
accused of by the aflembly of the Belgic dates i
—that forgetting he derived his authority fron
them, by permitting himfelf to be cliofen gene
ralhlimo by the officers under his command, by
fuffering the deputies sent from Congress to be
arrested, and other proceedings, he has brought
the country to the brink of deftru<flion, and ii
was time for them to take every measure to favc
the nation from the impending ruin; that for
the relt he might depend, that as the states had
granted him a court martial, he would be heard
with equity, impartiality and justice.
Letters from Rome confirm the report Uiat his Holinels the
Pope propof.s a journey to.Paris, for the purpoie of pcrfonally
deprecating the cccleiiafticai reforms planned by the National Af~
fembly ot France : the Sovereign Pot;tiff isto he accompanied by
a committtee of five members of the Sacred College; they are to
perform the journe) entirely by land, flopping only lor one week
or ten days at Florence, until they reach Avignon, where those re
verend and illtl&fious travellers will remain until all the ceremony
and etiquette of their reception at Paris (Kail be fettled by the
French Minilleisand the Cornmiilxoners of the National AlTembly.
So unprecedented and extraordinary a tranfa&ion in the French
papital, will, no doubt, draw thither an amazing concourse of
ftrangcrs. The above letters alio .mention that the king of Spain,
on hearing of the Pole's intended expedition to France, offered,
that if his Holinels preferred shortening his way by a sea voyage,
to lend two lhips of the line and four frigates to Civitta Vecchia
to take him and his fuiteon hoard and land them at Marfcillcs.
From tht JNDI4 GAZETTE.
On Thursday morning lalY the wife of a native,
named Radadoo Ghofe, who died at Semlay near
Calcutta, ascended the funeral pile of her
huiband with the usual ceremonies : her resoluti
on was so determined, that previously to the cu
stomary preparations for this fatal event, ihe di
ftributcd her fortune, confiding of several thou,
sand rupees, among her lamily, and the Bramin
Priests were not forgot in the distribution. She
was also poflefled of several houses, and atalook,
or farin, which were conveyed to her relations,
together with her jewels and furniture, so that
the apprehension of poverty could have 110 influ
ence in this facrifice of her life.
PROLOGUE,
To th« WIDOW iff" M A L A B A R,
Or,
The Tyranny of Custom
A Tragedy. Imitatedfrom the French oj M. liMiekke,
Spok-.n by Mr. Hal lam.
THE Gallic Muse, this night, prepares our Tdle,
And shews what rites in other lands prevail;
Difplaysthe widow'd fair a facrifice,
And draws companion's drops from melting eyes.
Oh ! if your hearts have ever learn'd to feel,
Let fwect compaflion o'er your bosoms steal ;
Believe the plot, from eastern story, true,
Believe the shores of Malabar ye view !
The haughty Bramin, with imperious smile,
Propels the fair-one to the fun'ral pile :
There—fee her mounting, wirh retorted eyes,
And hear, 'midst bursting ilames, her dying cries!
Such tragic strains the noblest charms dispense,
To purge the paflions, and refine the sense :
Each virtuous tear confers a new-born grace,
And adds f*efh beauty to the faired face.
Oh! born toblefs, and meliorate mankind,
With manners winning, and withtafte refin'd,
What wrongs, ye fair ! your gentle bosoms bore,
In each rude age—on cv'ry barb'rous (bore !
Doom'd the mean vafTals of unfeeling Lords,
By Western Savages, and Tartar Hofd.s!
Through Asian climes, lee Custom reason braves,
And marks the faireft of their sex for slaves :
Hearts form'd for love ; but doom'd in vain to glow
Inprifon'd pomp, and weep in splendid woe :
Or fee their fate in India more severe,
The fad companions of a husband's bier!
Not such their doom, where genial fciencc shines,
And heav'n-born freedom human louls refines ;
Where polifh'd manners social life improve,
And teach us to refpeft the fcx we love ;
Confirm their claims in equal tights to lhare,
Friends in our bliss, and partners in our care :
And hail, ye fair, of ev'ry charm poffclT'd,
Who grace this nfing Empire of the Weft ;
With better fates, and nobler genius born,
Your sex to honor and your land adorn ;
In this blest age, to lhare our fond regard,
The friends of Heroes and their best reward !
Yet when o'er foreign woes ye (bed a tear,
And find your bliss by contrast Hill more dear ;
With humble joy adore th' Almighty hand,
Which fix'd your birth in this auspicious land!
Ye gen'rous Patrons who protest our Stage,
Friends to the Arts and Guardians of the Age ;
To tragic woes now lend the Jilt'ning ear,
Attend with candor, with indulgence hear !
While we display, in pleading nature's cause,
Our best attempts to merit youT applause (
HARTFORD, June. 7.
The following are among the adis pafled at the
last session of the Legislature of this State ; viz.
An art repealing the Excise Laws of this state.
An ast for ceding to the United States the
Light-House at New-London. —A Resolve ap
pointing a Committee to confer with a Commit
tee of the Mafl'achufetts relative to the Fishery.
495
PORTSMOUTH June 10.
E-.traCl of a letter jrom a gentleman in Antigua :o
his friendtn this town duttd May 2
" WE are in a mod: (hocking condition for
want of rain, of which we have had but only a
pare of one day, since November lalt, our Canes
are all burnt up, some ©flares on which were made
400 Uoglhetids.annually, will not yield luore than
ten, others none, what will become of us God oat
ly knows, if we dent get rain soon 110 crops this
year, Corn 10/6 per bulhel, Beans, i'eafe and
Flour are not permitted to coins from England.
Such London (liips as had any of those articles on
board were Hopped, and the fame t?tke|iout.
BOSTON, June 12.
There being no chpice of Prelideut by the pen
ple of New-Ham pfbire, the House of JVeprelcir. -
atives sent up to the Senate, as Candidates, the
Hon.josiAH Eartlett, and John Picker
ing, Esq. The Senate made choice of the Hon.
JOSIAH BARTLETT, as Prejidcui of the State of
New ■ HatnpJhire.
A quellion was iu-ide in the Tloufe of Repre
sentatives of NewHampfhire, June 3, whether
John J. Sherburne, Esq. was eligible to a fear,
lie being an Invalid Petitioner. Ihe Yeas and
Nays being required, were Yeas 60, Nay 1.
NEWBERN, May 27.
Extract of a letter )runt a mewiber of Congress to hi s
friend, dated New Ttrk, May (>.
" The buiinefs of Congress moves with tardy
advances, the alluinption has taken
and is not yet fully decided. Our worthy friend
Do&or Williainfon, has done liimfclf great ho
nor in opposing the mcafure, and oil every occa
sion merits the confidence of his confti incurs."'
FOR THF. GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATES
SHIP NEWS
The Congrcfs, a fine new ship, on her second voyage, relurn n r
into port, got becalmed in a fog-.
The Ajfuvtptid.*, a (hip of the States, in ft*ys, fails (baking in
wind, current ahead.
The Refidnce, a Slate ftup, afliore on Point Ratiiiauon, Su. •
of Rhode IHand.
The Fef>ort, a federal sKip, is on the racks—fame of her (1 ghrer
materials haw been beaten off—her bottom, however, remains
fuiund —(he will undoobtedly begototf—*as every perfou is now
convinced ot the goodness of her materials, and the excellence of
her workmanship The M9on-Curfcrs however have been ho
vering round, expe&ing that it the crew forfakes her, they ffull
(ind pielty pickings, either in the wreck, or fl >atin£.
The Public Credit, an old (hip, crazy, weather-beaten and
leaky—loft of her con forts—and having narrowly escaped on
former occasions, kept astern—She ha* a good pilot oil board, and
may be expeftcd to arrive, when ■
NEW-YORK, JUNE 19, 1790.
APPOINTMENTS. By Authority.
Edward Church, ofGeor^ia, formerly of~MalTichufctfs, Consul
of the United States al'Afmerica, for the p.irt of Bilboa.
1 homas Au ld jo, Vice-Consul for the port of Cowe.v.
The Sieur Etienkc Cathalan, Vice-Consul tor the port of
Marseilles.
John Pa r ish, Vice-Consul for the port of Hamburgh.
Accounts by the Packet state, that a demand had been made by
the British Court of the restitution of the vefTels taken by J.he Span
iards at Nootka found, which had been refufed— in conference
of which 38 fail of the line had been commiHioned, a hot press
had taken place in London, and it was expe£)cd that war would
be declared against Spain in fouror five days after the Packet fail'd.
A letter from £aris of 25 April, fays, that all was peace in thai
kingdom—aud all fears of a couutcr revolution at an end.
Dublin newlpapers mention, that, " the Royal Arademy of
Arts and Sciences, in that kingdom, have elected Jam es Bowdoin,
Esq. (late Governor of MafTachufetts) to be an honorary Member
of that focicty.
DISCOVERIES in FORT-GEORGE.
During the course of the operations in leveling the works at
Fort-Gcwrge, several articles have been discovered, that probably \
had been deposited, and have been lain there ever since the firft
fcttlement in this city. Among other antique cunofities, are a
number of old Dutch tobacco pipes, fomewhatdifferent'fiom those
in use at the present day, and more clumsily made; also the re
mains of a brass hilted sword of the fafhion of the last century,
which in its better days might possibly have made a part of the
warlike furniture of some honest Batavian, or might even had the
honor to have graced the fide of the commandant of Fort Amster
dam*—Besides the above, a few pieces of coin have been found ;
the mod curious is a silver piece about the size and value of a pifta
rcen coincd at Groningen in 1605.
In removing the earth where the Chapelt formerly flood, a
number of bones have been dug up, but the coffins were totally de
cayed. Three vaults have also been discovered. On opening the
firft which was within the walls of the Chapel, only the remains
of a Tingle coffin were to be seen, which by the plate appears to
have been the body of the Right Honorable Lady Elizabeth Hays,
wife of Governor Hunter, who died the Bih of August 1716. This
coffin was almofltotally decayed.
The second vault contained the remains of four or five coffins,
two of which were of lead. One of them contained the remains
of the Earl of Bellamont, who died in 1701, Governor of this then
Province, as appears from a silver efcutchen chafed with the
arms of the Coote family of Ireland, being three cootcs with
wolves as fuppoiters. The other coffin probaDly contains the re
mains of his Lady. In the third vault nothing remained but a
few bones, the coffins being entirely decayed into dust.
For the fatisfa£lion of the relatives of the deceased, we are au
thorized to allure them, that the commifTioners appointed by the
Corporation to superintend the improvements, purpose to colle£fc
all the remains of bodies that may be found, and have them de
cently infered in one of the burial in this city.
* This fort so called when in poffeflio* oj the Dutch.
t The Chapel was accidentally burnt down in the firing of 1741, ow
ing to some carleffnefs in soldering a leaden gutter. . y
Arrivals since our last.— -neiv-york.
Packet Sandwick, Dillon Falmouth 36 days. *
Brig Havanna, Suter Newry 39 days, with 170 Pafiengers.
* Polly, , Montego Bay, 20 days.
ditto, ditto, North-Carolina 4 days.
Sloop Sukey, Tnp, St. Euftatia, 22 days.
Betsey, Jones Curracoa, 19 days.
Nancy, Dunn, Philadelphia, 7 days.
Ship Graze, Capt. Armour, arrived at the Texel, on 24 tk April,
Ship Three Brothers, Capt. Rujfel/, arrived, at Falmouth 2\Jl oj Ap+ii.
Tom MI zen -Discourses on davjla.— Xo. x
(CONTJNTFD;
Wife if a MinifLr; but ii a Ki;r,
Metre wife, more just, more leant'd, moievevery thing. '
" the great seem infcnlihleof the easy price,
-L/ "ac wlneh they may acquire rlie public
41 admiration; or do they seem to imagine, thar
'■ to them, as to other men, ir must. be the pur
chase either of sweat or ot' blood ? By what
" important accomplishments is the young no
•' bleman inftrutifced to lu'pport the dignity of his
" rank, and to render himfelf worthy of that Ju
" periority over his fellow citizens, to which the
" virtue of his ancestors, had railed them ? Is it
<( by knowledge, by mduftrv, by patience, by
" felf denial, or by virtue of any kind? As all
" his words, as all his motions are attended to,
" he learns an habitual regard to every circum
" stance of ordinary behaviour, and.itudies to
" perform all those finall duties, with the most
" exact pi epriety. As he is conscious how much
he is observed, and how much mankind are dif
" posed to favor all his inclinations, lie atfts, up
" on the moil indifferent occasions, with that
" i< e?dom and elegance, which the thought of
" I his naturally inspires. His air, his manner,
" his deportment, all mark that elegant and
" graceful fenle of his own fupsriority, which
" those who are born to infciior stations, can
" hardly ever arrive at : thete are the arts by
" which he proposes to make mankind fubinit to
t{ his authority, and to govern their inclinations
" accordingto his ownpleafurc ; and in this he
4C is seldom dif.ippointed. These arts, supported
4< by rank and preliemineuce, arc, upon ordina
" ry occasions, fufficient to govern the world.
" But it is not by accomplifliments of this
" kind, that the man of inferiour rank muiUiope
" to diftinguiih himfelf. Politenels is so much
*' the virtue of the great, that ic will do little
" honor to any body but tliemfelves. The cox
" comb, who imitates their manner, and affetfts
" to be eminent by the superior propriety of his
" ordinary behaviour, is rewarded with a double
" lhare of contempt for his folly and fprefumpti
" on. Why lhould the man whom nobody
" thinks it worth while to look at, be very anx
-4< ious about the manner in which he holds up
" his head, or disposes of his arms, while he
" walks through a room .' He is occupied surely
with a very luperfluous attention, and with
" an attention too that marks a sense of his own
■" importance, which no other mortal can go
*' along with. The mod perfect modesty and
<( plainness, joined to as much negligence, as is
" confident with the refpedt due to the company,
" ought to be the chief tharaifterifticks of the
" behaviour of a private man ; if ever he hopes
" to diftinguilh himfelf, it mult be by more im
" portant virtues. lie must acquire dependants
" to balance the dependants of the grear, and
" he has no other fund to pay them from, but
" the labor of his body and the activity of his
<l mind. He mull cultivate these therefore, he
" must acquire superior knowledge in his pro
*' feilion, and superior industry in the exercise
" of it ; he inufc be patient in labor, resolute in
*' danger, and firm in distress. These talents
" he must bring into view, by the difficulty, im
" pojtance, and at the fame time, good judg
" ment of his undertakings, and by the severe
" and unrelenting application with which he J
" pursues them. Probity a,ul prudence, genero
*' lity anJ franknefs, mult characterize his beha
" viour upon all ordinary occasions ; and he must
" at the fame time, be forward to engage in all
" those (ituations, in whichit requires the great
" eft talents and virtues to a<ft with propriety,
,l but in which the greatest applause is to be ac
" quired by those who can acquit thenifelves
with honor. With what impatience does the
" man of spirit and ambition, who is deprefied
" by his situation, look round for some great op
" portunity to diftinguilfi himfelf No circum
" stances, which can afford this, appear to him
" undesirable ; he even looks forward with fa
" tisfatftion to the prospect of foreign war, or
" civil dillention ; aidwith secret tranfportand
" delight, fees, through all the confulion and
" bloodllied which attend them, the probability
" of all those vifhed-for occasions presenting
" thenifelves, in which lie may draw upon him
" lelf the attention and admiration of mankind.
" The man of rank and diftincftion, on die con
*• trary, whose whole glory confiits in the pro
" priety of his ordinary behaviour ; who is con
" tented with the humble renown which this
" can afford lirm, and has no talents to acquire
" any other ; is unwilling to embarrass himfelf
" with what can be attended either with difficul
" ty or dilliefs ; to figure at a ball is his great
" triumph; he has an aversion to all public con
" fufions, not from want of courage, for in that
" he is feldoin defcdlive, but from a consciousness
" tliat lie poflei'les none of the virtues which are
" required in such situations, and that the pub
•' lie attention will certainly be drawn away
from him by others : lie may be willingto ex
" pose bimfelfto some little danger, and to make
" a campaign, when it happens to be thefalhion ;
'• La: \vi:h horror a: ;hc thought of
u any fituatlcn which demands the continual and
" long exertion of patience, industry, fortitude,
" and application of thought, "lliele virtues are
" hardly ever to be met with in men who are
" bom tothofe high Nations. In all govern
" ments, accordingly, even in monarchies, the
" higlieli: offices are generally pofl'efled, and the
'• whole detail'of the administration conducted
" by men, who were educated in the middle and
" inferior ranks of life, who have been carried
" forward by their own industry and abilities,
" though loaded witli the jealousy, and opposed
" by the resentment of all those who were born
" their superiors, and to whom the great, after
" having regarded them, firit with contempt,
" and afterwards with envy, are at last content
" ed to truckle with the lame abjeeft meanijefs,
" with which they dclire that the reft of man
" kind lhoiiKl behave to theinfelves.
" It is the loss of this easy empire over the af
fections of mankind, which renders the fall from
greatnels so insupportable. When the family of
ihe King of Macedon was led in triumph by Pau
las /tmilius, their misfortunes, made them divide
with their conqueror, the atiention oftheßoinan
people. The fight of the royal children, whofc
tender age rendered tliem inlenlible of their li
tnation, ltruck the fpeclators, amidll the public
rejoicings and prosperity, with the tendereft
sorrow and compaifion. The King appeared next
in the procellion—and seemed like one confound
ed and aftonilhed, and bereft of all sentiment,
by the greatness of his calamities. His friends
and miniiters followed after him. As they moved
along, they often cast their eyes upon their fallen
fovereign,and always bnrft into tears at the light
— their whole behavior denionftrating that they
thought not of their own misfortunes, but were
occupied intirely by the superior greatness oflfis.
Thegenerous Romans, on the contrary, beheld
him with disdain and indignation, and regarded
as unworthy of all companion the man who could
be so mean spirited as to bear to live under fucli
calamities. Yet what did those calamities amount
to ! He was to spend the remainder of his days,
in a state, which of itfelf should seem worthy of
envy ; a Itare of plenty, ease, leisure and securi
ty, from which it was impoflible for him, even
by his own folly, to fall. Hut he was no longer
to be surrounded by that admiring mob of fools,
flatterers, and dependants, who had formerly
been accullomed to attend all his motions ; he
was no longer to be gazed upon by multitudes,
nor to have it in his power to render liimfelf the
object of their refpeJi, their gratitude, their Jove,
and their admiration. Ihe paliions of nature
were no longer to mould themselves upon his in*
clinations. This was that insupportable calami
ty, which bereaved the king of all sentiment ;
which made his friends forget their own'misfor
tunes, and which the Roman magnanimity could
scarce conceive how any man could be so mean
rited as to bear to survive.
"To those vvho have been accuiloroed to the
pofleflion,or even to the hope of public admirati
on, all other pleasures sicken and decay.
" Of such mighty importance does it appear
to be, in the imaginations of men, to (land in
that situation which setts them molt in the view
of general sympathy, and attention ; and thus
place, that great objedt which divides the wives
of aldermen, is the end of half the labours of hu
man life ; and is the cause of all the tumult and
buttle, all the.rapine and injustice, which avarice
and ambition have introduced into this world.
People offenfe, it is said indeed, despise place;
that is to fay they defpi/'e fettingat the head of
the table, and are indifferent who it is that is
pointed out to the company by that frivolous cir
cumstance which the finalleß advantage is capable
of overbalancing. But rank, diftip<sU o n, pre
eminence, no man despises."
EASTON, June 8
"I , n
The convention of the Protestant Epifcopa.
church of Maryland, met at this place on the 27th
of laftmouth, and after tranfacling, with the ut
most harmony and concord, the important bufi.
liefs which came before them, they adjourned on
the Monday following to mcec at Baltimore-town
on Thursday in Whitfun-week, 1791. That re
fpectable body, we hear, have ratified the book
of common prayer, as eftabliflied by the «eneral
convention held at Philadelphia in September
last, which is to come into use, throughout the
ten flares which have adopted the fame, on the
firft day of next O&ober. VVe are authorized to
fay, that the liturgy is considerably improved by
the learned and enlightened body who revised
it, and there is reason to hope that it will recom
mend itfelf to every considerate member of the
Episcopal church, and by the blefling of Heaven
promote uniformity of sentiment and worJhip'
and confequentlv the interests of piety and true
religion, among her members throughout this
extensive empire. » 0
n SC T i 'f rge " n P r 'f'»> fij this paper bavin? been
Jtracv off jrom ths commencttntnt of the fecorid no/
; —Tvofevho htfiine to b -jcome fubfurther]
from that period, m«y be jurnijhed with the numbers
conip/eat.
496
New-York City Lottery,
SCHEME of .1 LOTTERY, for the purpose of raiGne Seven T,"
Jund five Handled Pounds, agreahle to an ACT of the Lt'gift,*.
turf of the State of N'ew-York, pafled Bth February, 1790.
SCHEME.
1 PRIZE of £ 3000 £ 3000
2 1000 toco
3 s"° J530
10 200 20go
30 30:0
£0 50 2JOO
1-0 8 0 :49> .
180 10 iir o
7y.5° i 3>Sj>"
8').16 Ptirrs, ) t- 1 . /
:66i 4 filaiik J 55000 Tickets at 4 0'.eaeh, £ , s s ?M
Subject to a dcdu&ion of Fifttcn per C<nt.
THEobjeft of this LOTTERY being ro raise a part <vftiie&-i
advanced by the corporation lor repairing and ii,eCi-
TY HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, wn:ch.d > (i
so much honor to the Architect, as wrll as credit 10 thd city, y: „
managers prefuine that their fellow Citizens will cheerfi Jy c ..
cur in promoting the fa!e of Tickets, eloecially as tiic fuccc/i --''
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, which .r Uii .
be laid to reimburse the corporation.
The above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very benelki 1
to adventurers,there not being two blanks to a priafe.
The Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the First
Monday in August next, or (boner if filled, of which time,';
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers will be pub
lilhed at the expiration of the drawing.
Tickets arc to be fold by the subscribers, who arc appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutenburgh, Abraham Herring,
Peter T. Curtexius, J oh n Pikiard.
New-York, 6thMwch,iygo.
Bethlehem Stages. |
THE great number of Miffrs, who from the banks ofiht i
ware East ward, even to Boston, are now at the'younglirfjgt
Academy at.Bethlehem, renders some regular,
ciieap mode of conveyance between that town and New
ceflary. To accommodate parents who hove daughters atthdtS^aJ' -
rifhing Academy, and others who may wilh tovifit that plttfe,; ;?
romantic hill, the ftibfcjibers are now running Ibgcs, *
continue during the fummrr, between Elizabeth Town R>iw
Bethlehem. Al each of these places a (lage will start f
day and Thurlday morning at 5 o'clock, meet at
avern the fame evening, exchange pafTengers, and the no# irf
return
Fare of each pafTenger from Elizabeth Town Point lo Bcthl -
hem 3 dollars—way passengers 4<i per jelb. of baggaee
the fame as apa(rer;er. Packages and letters will be received and
delivered at Mrs. Winant's, Whitehall, where feats may beta
ken-ear, 'age of a letter 3d— of baggaje allowed to each
paflrnger.
To accomodate those who may with to take 'ethlehem in their
route ill iournevitig between the Eallern and Southern llates, a
stage will cnnftantly run between Bethlehem and Philadeljh
flirting at Bethlehem every Monday morning.
Mav 10.
ADVERTIEMEXT.
BY order of the honorable John Slofs Hobart Efqulrc, oneoi
the Juft.ccs of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the Estate
ot Ncw-\ ork. Notice is heieby given to Paul Deyrcil,now or
late of Long Island, fcfquire, an debt«r, and to ail
others whom it may concern ; that upon application and due
proof, made to the said Justice, pursuant to an ast of the Icgifk
ture, entitled " an ast for relief abfeonding and absent
debtors, pasTed the fourth day of April, 1786, by a creditor of
the said Paul DeyreU, he the said Justice has diretUd all his the
laid l'aul Deyrell's Elbte, real and personal, within this State, to
be seized ; and that unless he shall discharge his debts within three
months after the publication of this notice ; al! his Estate real and
pcifonal will be fold for the payment and fatisfaftion of his cre
ditors. Dated at the city of New-York, the twenty-seventh dav
ol March, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and ninety. March 31. uw 3 tn.
By Order of the Honorable Richard Morris, Ifq. Chief JuJlice of it,
State of New* York.
M OT 'CE is hereby given to LewisM'Donald, of Conncflicul,
. a j? ? blent debtor, that upon application and due proof made
to the laid chief justice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Douald,
purfnant to an ast of the Legislature of the said State, entitß
An ast lor relief aftainft absconding and absent debtor," paf
if '!" r 4 J Apr '. l, 1786 : h< "> the fjid chii:f jufticc, has ditcficd
a I the laid Lewis M'Donalds estate, within this Hate, to befaz
e , and that Mnlefs he fhal] discharge his debts within twelve
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will be fold
tor the payment of his creditors. Dated the -id May, 17Q0.
New-York, 7 , , 7go . 3 (iw-tyf
§ CONTINENTAL j
§ STATE SECURITIES, &
p BOUCHT AND SOLD,
AT NO. 196. WATU-STRIIT. S
C A S'nerous priceiuill be givenfor Military Ri t gits of Lad'r
J ani Jcfiy Paper Money. May 4. J
t * gr> ton
ASH, and a generous price given for Conti
nental, New-Hampshire, Maflachufctts, and Rhode-Iflaiia
of every denomination, by
at xr THAYER, jun. No. 59, Wattr~StrctL
New-Yoik, April 17, 1790. J ™
"VX7ANTED Immediately, a Man as an Ostler, one that u
Vr lober and can be- well recommended, will'meM witli'eit- -
couragement, and find Ready employment, by applying to the '
m n ARCHER GIFFORD,
N. B. None but a sober person, and one well recommended
need apply. Newark, May 19, 1790.
T,,_ *-ET, andpo/fefion given immediately,
H. .. No. 87, Front Street.- A part of the FURNi- '
1 ***■ wl " be f°ld) on reasonable terms, to accommodate
the Tenant, if required. Apply on the premifcs.
June 12, 1790.
| O be SoJd, an elegant dwelling house, in every circumstance
X fitted for a gentleman with a large family, situated in a very
pleasant part ot Elizabeth Town, New- Jersey. The lot con
tains abont four acres, on which is a very good garden, and a
variety of the best fiuit trees. The terms of payment can be made
o easy as to suit the purchaser. Enquire of the Subscriber at No.
12, Wall-Street. 4 ELI AS BOUDINOT.
Junes, 1790.
WILLIAM CRANE.
FREDERICK BEUTEL.