PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK.,
[No. 23, tf Vol. ll.j
THE TABLET. No. CXXVII.
(continuation.)
" The multitude, in all countries, are patient to 0
Certain point."
GOVERNMENT can never be so far redu
ced to a science, as to render it proper
for Legislators to a<fl, on all occasions, by general
principles. Some particular cases may be invol
ved in such Angular circmnftances, that natural
sagacity becomes a better guide than principles
or precedents. And it will frequently be a point
of great delicacy with a legislator to determine,
how far his conduct Ihould be controled by the
public opinion. It is apt to be fuppofcd than the
Sentiments of a free, enlightened people, are fel
dorn founded in error. This idea must be a lit
tle qualified, before it can be adopted as one of
those fpecific maxims which reft on immutable
truth. I will dilate briefly upon the fubjetft, and
leave the reader to form such a result as his own
reflexions may di&ate.
The general sense of the community is always
too foleuiu to be trifled with ; and it is often too
powerful to be resisted. But this foleinnity and
force can only prevail infituattons ofa very mo
mentous nature. Most questions that are dilcuf
fed are not obvious or interesting enough to affe(!t
the toucji of the great bulk of mankind. If a le
gislature happen to pass laws contrary to natural
justice, or illy accommodated to the adventitious
state of the people, they will probably excite
easiness, ana ought to be repealed. In times ot
great disorder, the current prejudices of the day
may be favorable to laws that ar< capricious or
unjust ; but the operation of such laws will loon
become unpopular. So on the other hand, in
disturbed irregular state ofl'ociery, a temper ot
opposition, in the public mind, against ajuft and
honorable mode of procedure, will imperceptibly
give way to the progref* of justice and good or
der. There is a right and wrong in the nature
of things ; and it wili be foiHid thai popular pro
judice will not lpng fnpport the one, or rcfift the
other. Society mult diflblve itfclf wlienthepeo
ple can be drawn into a serious oppolition to
measures founded in wisdom and rectitude. Tha
complaints therefore of discontented men fliould
never divert public rulers from such pursuits as
are in themselves honelt and prudent* Though
iome people may murmur, the great mass of the
communi'; will obey.
The multitude, >>■ all countries, art patient to a cer
tain point. Tliey will generally bear, as much
as ought to be borne by human uamre, before
they reiufe obedience, and Hy to wars and inlnr
reiitions for relief. There are tew or no revolts
where the error has been principally on the iide
of the opprefied. Perhaps fnuie circuinftances of
difrcfpeCt or provocation may attend the oppo
iition, but the fundamental maxims of a revolt ing
people will gnin advocates in proportion as they
arc difcufied. Clamors and (ufpicions may ori
ginate in trifles, and often defcrve no notice.—
But deliberate JifafieAion among the mass of the
people, inuft be redrefled by the government, or
will retl. ess itfelf.
To cherilh the capriceofan individual, or com
munity, is a ready way to incur ill will and con
tempt. Opinions that have 110 reasonable foun
dation will be transitory. They may (afely be
clilputed- and moderately oppoled. 1 here can
never be any danger in bringing them into pub
lic examination. Nothing tries the merit of pub
lic regulations better than to bring them to the
test of an experiment. It they Iftrink from the
trial, it is an evidence that they contain fomefaife
jnaterials ; b,ut llill the clamor excited against a
measure tinder contemplation is no furticient
proof, that it will not turn out favorable in the
experiment. There is an eflential difference in
the sentiments of any people relative to a law,
before and after it is put into execution. \Y hile
a law is in agitation, athouland feelings and pre
judices may give it too bad or too good a color
ing ; but when it takes effeOi, it begins to bee.v
nmined among the people, more upon the ground
of its own merit, and will finally itand or fall, as
its real'charaifter deierves. Ihe chief enquiry
a legislator fhouid make, is, what the real jnterefts
of the community require of him. Having aicer
tainecl this point, he will do well to enquire
whether the popular opinion will probably I'anc
tiou he is abotit to adopt. If he finds
the turrent of prejudice againll him, lie will, by
tleg.ees, be able to reconcile the feelings of the
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 30, 1790.
people to their true intei efts. It is a matter of
a good deal oldifcretion to coutt eraift errors that
may exist in society, against the public good ;
but the difficulty of the talk will never deter a
firm and virtuous legiflatorfrom making attempts.
Moderation is compatible with finnnefs, and he
will not, ii he be a prudent man, defeat his pur
pose by ralhnefs, any mote than he will lose it
by delay. Discretion is as much a public virtue
as honelty or patriotifin ; but it can never be de
creet to flatter people in their , • ejudices and
faults, when it would promote their prosperity to
lay them aside.
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ADDRESS of the NATIONAL ASSEMBLY to the
PEOPLE of FRANCE.
Fiskuart 11th, 1793.
(CONTINUED)
SUCH is onr work, people of hVance, or rather
such is yours ; for we are but your organs,
it is you who have enligliteued,' cncouraged and
supported us inour labors. Whjr period can be
compared with the present ? Wii an honora
ble inheritance youare about trantmittingtopof
terity ! Raised to rank of »icizeiis, admillible
to every employment, enlightenedcenforsof the
administration ! Although you are not the drpo
fitories, you are certain that itverj' thing is done
through you, and for you, who are equal in the
fight of the law ; free to ast, to Ipeak, to write,
accountable to no man, but only to die common
will . what condition can be fairer ? Can there
be a citizen, deserving that name, who dares cast
a look behind, who would wiih to dig up the ru
ins with which we are surrounded, to rebuild the
former edifice ?
But what has not been said ? Wh.it has not
been done to weaken in you the impreiGon which
so much good ought to produce ? W: have d:-
jlroyej every thing, they fay : that means, that eve
ry thing ought to be reettabli<h'.*i. And what is
there to.be regretted ? Would you wish toknow
of all the objects that have been reformed or de
stroyed, let luch persons be interrogated, as are
not interested ; let even the candid opinion of
fiich as are interested be required ; only except
filch, as to enhance the afflictions of personal in-.
terell, commiserate at this hour, the fate of those !
who at other times were indifferent to tliem ; !
and we lhall fee whether the reform of each of
these objetfis docs not comprehend the general
wifties of the public.
Wthave atfed with too great precipitation ; and
many others reproach i:s with having afied too
/lowly. With too much precipitation ! Are they
ignorant that it is only by attacking and over
turning abuses all at once, that we may hope to
fee ourselves effetftually delivered ; that then
and then only, every person finds himfelf inter
ested in the establishment of order ; that flow
and partial reforms have always ended in re
forming nothing ; in fliort, that the abuses which
are preserved, become the prop, and shortly the
restorer of such as were foppofed to be destroy
ed ?
" Our sfjfemilies are tumultuous." To what pur
pose this complaint, provided the decrees ifliied
by them are wile ? We are however, tar from
wilhing to prefenc to your admiration, the detail
of all our debates. We have more than once
been afflicted by them ourselves ; but we have at
the fame time perceived that it was too unjull to
endeavour to take the advantage otthem ; and
after all, this impetuosity was thealmoft inevita
ble effect of the firft engagement that ever per
haps took place between principles and errors.
We are accused with having aspired after a chi
merical perfection. Foolish reproach ! Which is
plainly but a thin disguised wifli to perpetuate
abuses—The National Assembly has nevet attend
ed to such servile interested k pufillanimousmo
tives : It has had the courage or rather the rea
son to believe, that ufctul neceilaiy to
mankind, were not neceflarily deitined to adorn
the pages of a book ; and that the iupieme
ino-, by giving perfectibility to man, the pai ticulai
attribute of his nature, did not prohibit him
from applying it to social order, which has
become the molt universal of his interelts, and
alinoft the firfl: of his wants.
Is it po/Jible, they fay to regenerate an old and
corrupted nation. Let them learn, that none are
corrupted but such as vifh to perpetuate corrupt
abuses ; ar.d that a nation will renovate, the day
505
it refolvesto renew its liberty. Mark the rising
generation ; whose hearts already palpitate with
joy and hope ! How pure, noble, and patriotic
are its sentiments ! With what an enthufiafni do
we observe it endeavouring to have the honor of
being admitted to take the citizens oath ! But
why anfwor such a iniferable reproach ! Shall
the National Aflembly be reduced to excuse it
felf for not having despaired of the French peo
ple ?
Nothing has yet leen dtne for the people, they have
dared to Tay—And yet it is the people's cau(e
which every where triumphs. Nothingdone so?
the peopje ! And does not every abuf'e which
has been delbroyed, prepare or fecur* confolatioii
for them f Thty did not contplaiu—becauffe the
excess of their misfortunes Aisled their com
plaints. j4t this time thej art unhappy. Say rather
jkey are fliit unhappy.' But they (hall not long be
10 ; we pledge our oaths for it.
, (Ti h ctntinuid.)
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, JUNE 21.
Mr. Gcttt'i moritm an <V tjfiinf'thn tj ih; State diits, which r*at
injerted in this piper ytU s6th, wtJtrumficralM*
Mr. AMES
I A.M obliged to obtril 'e my sentiments upon the eommittec,under
cucumiianccs which ilifle the hope of procuring for thcrti
a welcome reception. The curiosity of the assembly in the firft
stages of a public debate, will procure some indulgence and ad
miuifter considerable aid to him who hat to support a part iu it«—
But this fubjefl has been debated till it has become tedious; there
is very little remaining to be be f«id which can excite curiosity,
or reward attention. The feelings of the committee will procure
me belief whru I fay, that I obey the duty of attempting to, ob
viate the objections which have been urged by the gentleman from
Virginia, and which I think is imposed upo# me by the nature
of some of them, with an unaffected relu&ance. I will hope,
however, that a candid condescension to theneceflity of my fitua.
tion, and a sense ot public duty, will overcome, or suspend tor a
time, the difguil which has attended the revival of this debate.
The ical ol the gentlemen, on both fides, has led them to draw
aid to their cause fiom very remote sources. But all the objec
tions agaiuft the affumpiion may be comprised in these two —that
the measure is agaioft justice, and againfc policy. Both (ides of
the queftionhave been maintained with an uncommon warmth of
convi&ion—in candor, and probably in ftii6t truth, this ought to
he mutually underftoud as the cvidencc of a fmcere zeal for the
public good.
To evince the justice of the aflumption, I take, as the ground
oftny reasoning, a proportion which is admitted on both fides \
that the expencis of the war ought to be made a common charge
upon the United States.
It will llluftrate my argument, to observe, that this war was be
tween this country and and not a war of particular States
—All America, Congress iatheir resolves, the ast appointing com
miflioncrs to fettle the accounts, the late amendment (Mr. Madi
son's) to the proposition for affumingthe State debts, and the ob
jections to that proposition corroborate the idea that the expences
of the war ought to be equalized. Aflurwe the debts, and fettle
the accounts, and this is effe&ed. There is an end to the inequal
ity as soon as this isdoue.—This answer is so plain and conclufive >
that it is attempted to take off its force by faying, that the ac
counts will not be fettled. If this assertion is true, the non-as
sumption is plainly unjust—For the burden is confeffedly unequal
now, and the only reason for refufing to take this burden off some
of the States, is the certain afluranee that they will be relieved from
so much as (ball be found to exceed their (hare, when the accounts
shall be lettled. But if the accounts are not to be fettled at all,
the States, which are now overloaded, have no justice to expect
but from the aflumption. It cannot be known with certainty
which will be a ereditor, or which a debtor State, at present. It
theaccounts (hould not be adjuftcd, ve e must remain in ignorance ;
we ought therefore to exclude all consideration of the other claims*
because it would be useless, and apply the principal of equali
ty to the State debts.—The debts to be assumed arc either duly
proportioned among the States, or they are not. If they are so
proportioned, then it is certainly pdlitic, and not unjust, because
it would be equal to afifume them. If they are now unduly pro
portioned, it is even in terms against equality to leave them upon
the States.
If the war has made a random distribution of debts upon the
States, it is best to make the amount which is to be left unsettled,
as little as may be. For the probability is, that as you diminish
the unsettled amounts, you make the inequalities less. This will
serve as an answer to those also who fay, that supposing a fettle—
rr.ent to take place two or three years hence, a State may be re
lieved from a light burden of its own debt, and be obliged to
bear, as its proportion of the assumed debt, one more weighty.
For it is not certain that it will have in that cafe more to bear than
its part, and if it Ihould turn out to be more, the balance may be
known almost as soon as the intcreft will commence—The aller
tion that the accounts will not be fettled, has been made with
confidence. To judge how far we ought to guide ourconduft by
it, it is enough to examine what States it corner from. Let the
gentlemen who make it a{k their own hearts, let them look round
and ask one another, whether their States are the more clamorous
for their dues, or apprehensive of a fcttlement, which will expose
their delinquency. In this place, where fadls arc known, this
question will be an argument.
But what ground is there for faying that the accounts will not
be adjusted f This was positively engaged hy the former govern
ment. It is improper for Congress to a6t as it Congress was not
to'be truftcd. Commiflioners are employed in the business ? A
motion to extend their time and powers has met with no opposi
tion, and it is maturing into a law. Who will oppose it ? Not
New-England ! we wifti it—we have pledged ourselves to support
it ; you ought to believe us, when it is so easy to bring us to the
test. I have myfelf moved rcfolutions —the belt I could devise—
which I thought v*ould facilitate—would forcc a fcttlement. I
[Whole No. 127.]%m ready to revive them.-»-Surely those who urgilhat t'neaccounts
will not be fettled, do not propose to fulfil their own prophecy.
It is ccrtain therefore, that if there is a disposition in this houfc
to prevent proper measures being adopted to procure a settlement,
it will be diiappointcd—l wish to remove this ground of objec
tion, by urging the bufin fs of liquidation forward. Ifthen'pro-
Vision is to be made for liquidating tbc accounts, the arguYnefit
•which I deduced from it remains in full force. All pretence of
inequality is removed by it. It is a full anfv/er to frveral other
objc&ions— it becomes unnecellary to ask whether State notcj re
main debts against this government after they Have been received
into the State treasuries,; whether the United States are obliged to
afTume before the balances arc found on a settlement : and whe
ther the debts were wifely or on wifely contra&ed ? It becomes
immaterial to calculate how many parts in an hundred New-
Haniplhire, and Ijow many Connecticut will pay ; and how much
Virginia has paid, and will now have to pay. What was wrong
in the distribution of the burdens of the war will be rectified ;
and as to future payments, all the citizens will be upon a footing.
As the gentleman from Virginia reafohs with great candor, I am
lure he will be sorry that in his observations he has wholly ne
glected, ccrtainly through inadvertency, to notice an argument
which seems on both (ides, to be as absolutely conclu
sive. When I fay that both fides allow this argument to be ccn
clufive, I pre fume my meaning, is underllood as I formerly ex
prefTea it. For the answer to it is, that the accounts will not be
fettled ; which admits the force oi the reason, and rcfts the deci
sion upon a point of fact.
Perhaps for the fake of simplicity and perjpicuity, I ought not
to pjrfue the enquiry as to the jufticc of the afTumption any fur
ther. Tho' I mean to rely upon the argument I have llattd, it
will furmfh an answer to some objections to urge another. It is
said these arc State debts, Congress has nothing to do with them.
When the war commenced, Congress had neither money, nor
troops. They were so far from having a right to tax the States
that they had neither the powers of a government, nor a rule by
which to require contributions. They appealed to the good wil
and patriotism of the States, and entreated them to furnifh Sup
plies to the extent of their power. The calls upon the States were
not taxes or debts—but advances or loans to the public. This is
explicitly and formally declared by the refojves of Congress. I
have made some attempt to examine thejoumals in order to (h;w
from them how totally unfounded the altcrtioo is that these confti-
tuted debts agairifl the States. But I found that the titles only 61 the
Tefolves would fill a Qieet of paper. Nothing can be nore fully
C wed than the contrary, not only by the letter of the. resolves,
by the condu& of Congreb. In some cases, no regard was
to the conjectural ratio by which the States ought to furnilh
and Supplies. In other instances some of the States were
'Vholly omitted, and not unfrequently a single Slate was called
•f>on forfupplies. Oneofthemoft signal proofs, however, is
•<b*lin tHbrefolve of Feb. 9, 1780. It is exprrfsly stipulated that
if the Slates fhoujd furnifli more than they are called upon for,
the United States willftand charged with it. The refolveof ]an
5, 1733, even in terms, "cognizes the troops whom the States
were to fettle with a« the creditors ofthe union, for whom good
(ecurity must be provided.
• This ii'an enquiry into the iuftice of the afTumption. I rejefl
therefore the forms ofthe tranfadion,and alk, whether, if the war
had been confined to a corner, instead of spreading over the con
-tiapot, and one State had incurred the whole debt ot 80 millions,
it would be just to leave the burthen upon that State ? Confidently
■with the resolves I have mentioned, and the known fqnfeof Ame
rica, could it be called a State debt ? I am lure of my answer, for
the question extorts difference between the cafe I have
supposed, and that which is in.doisw i> only in degree—there it
none in the principle.
It will be atil-wercd, perhaps, that it is true we owe the States.
They are not finally to hear the burthen—let them pay what they
owe and we,will pay them—This is a dangerous concrffion to
those who make it, if the accounts aie never ty be fettled, at it is
urged by,thofe who contend against the aflumption. for it a
moOnts to this—the debt is binding and yet it will never be paid.
It presents them a choice of difficulties, it forces them to confefi
cither that the jlTumption will not wrong you. or that the non
afliimption vyill end in cheating such of the Slates at are your cre
ditors.
It. will be said it is true hoWtver, that, the United States (land
indebted to the States, but tht Creditors of the States have no iuft
claim upon the United Statei/
Thenni a great difference MUleen the justice t'lat will be done
by rhfttwmption to the Statewtod to their creditors.
TheStMa were called upon afltirig the war to nuke advances.
Accordinglytliey procured foirttthing by taxes, and still more
■was procured by paper rooncv, iMltth died in the hands ot the
pofleffor. They havealfo paid fom* part since the peace. So far
the States as fuch,»ftua)ly made advances— But the principal part
•was obtained ciltier by boriowing, or f.mnt; priva'.e property,
or by drafting men. So far the advances wr? made by indivi.
duals—and-at periods-fo critical, and under Inch circumstances of
violence and fiardllaip, as to give a peculiar fanftion to their
claim upon the justice and honor of their countrv.
Juflice plainly requiris that tbefe per tons fliould be repaid,
their interest at lead, in all events, anil without dJay. Tneir
claims, in every view, are perfca-moft of them are original
holder*. But neither the jullice of the cafe, nor the engagements
of Congtefs require that the Statrs Ihould b; re-pud till the extent
of their demand ran be known. For 1 readily adtnil that nothing
more than the balances of their aflnaf advarii.es are due from the
United States to the individual States. This has been ur<»ed a
gainst the alfumption, hut without foundation—lf a Siat" paid
more than its proper (hare the surplus (hould be repaid. But it a
payment was only ptomif d and is still to be made iuflicc is du<-
to the creditors and not to the State. The idea may be illustrated
by confidcritig the States as agents or contractors for the union
•what they paid ihev claim for theml'clves, what they barely p:o
---mifrd (hould be paid by their employers, who had the benehi of
the debt, cfp-cially if the agent cannot or will not pay—l cannot
think it neceffarv to give any further answer to the question so
logically proposed with regard to the jiature of the debts when
redeemed, and in the State treasuries.
What remains Hue ought to fall not unequally upon States, but
noon the who'e fociety—lt ought if not paid foouer, to fjll'upon
poftrrity. 1 f fame States should lose wealth and people, and'o
thers intrea.fr, if new States should join the union, or spring ud
•within it, and the western wildern. fs he thronged with [elpe
the burthen will bi equalized upon all the citizens.—L'berty and'
independence were procured lor the whole, and for poflenty —
why then fhrtuld noCall contribute tolhe price ?
As it refpefis the army debt, the very terms of the bargain bind
ihe United States* Congress promised to pay the men, but called
upon the States to raise them. Ast rwards, when the paper fail
ed, the Stales were requrftrd to make up the depreciation—State
notes were given for it. which remain due. Ph.l,ably a n t |, e
States cannot pay. In this instance not only jullice, but your
plghted futh require you to pay them; you have aflced their fer
viccs, and had them ; you have promised to reward them and
they remain (IntcVardfd. I have already fup'pofcd the cafe of'
the whole debt being thrown upon one State". If i ifteid n f t^ e
■whole debt, ; ts zeal or t! « neceflity of its affairs had puffed a State
forward to exceed, and in its diftrrfsto difregvd, its abilityto
pay, ar.d accordingly had run in debt three times as much as it
tan pay—that the war had scattered lt« citizens and wafted its
property—are the officers and soldiers who expelled the enemy,
and who did not care which State line they served in, to be told'
OU served the United S'atrs ; but you are the creditors ofSo:ithl
Carolina ? It is (rut, you shed your blood for us—by yourvalour,
* r r " litre—vc hive ftxn your wrongs, and when it would do
you no good, because We had no power, we told th;
deeply we lamented them. But go home and ftarve-Would not
this wring dropfjrom their hearts, md plant thorns in our ovv " •
The like rcafoning will apply to another description of the
debts to bef afTumed—to the certificates given by lhc /r com , rn ' l "
Caries and other officers of the United State*, andlince aliumea >y
the particular states. You cannot deny you* own by ca ling tlu m
state debts—A great part of the debt of-Soutli-Carolnu ii laid tope
of that kind. Is that state to be crushed with a weight which it
cinnot bear, Or are the creditors to be ruined because the ltate wil
be undone, if they are not ? Or how will this comport with the
principle admitted on both fidts ot equalizing the expences ol the
war ?
The best fund of the states, and hitherto the only one of the uni
on, the impost has been taken away by adopting the constitution.
Let the debts follow the funds. Let the world ju'dge whether
the generous confidence of the state creditors in the public justice
ought to be abused, and whether they, ought to be made to repent
the cordial support whichtliey gave ro the new constitution. Ihe
force of this argument may be inferred from the uncommon pains
which have been taken to destroy it. The fafcl is denied, and the
i.Tue of the queftioo has been boldly rrfted upon this point, that
t-ie states most urgent for the aflumption were not incapacitated
from providing for their debts by the furrendcr of the impost.
The impost, collettcd in New-Hamp(hire is called the amount of
that state's contribution to the union, and the ratio by which ftie
>ught to contribute is taken from her prcfent reprcfentation. I
wave, at this moment, all comment upon the nnfairuefs and fallacy
of this mode of computation. I proceed to observe, that an un
common use is made of the result. According to her number of
reprcfematives, that state ought to pay one twentieth, and yet no
more than an huudreth part of the impost of the union is paid by
t>iat ftdte, or rather collected in it—of course, it i* gravely said, it
will save four-fifths of the sum which it would have had to pay, if
the debt had been afleffed Jpon the union before the constitution
was framed, and this saving to the state may apply to the dif
hargeof its debt. But',fir,fuch requisitions never were paid,and ne
ver could have been paid by the states. Experience had taught us,
that it was not to be cxpe&ed, nor was it in their power.--This
indeed was one of the principal reafonsfor adopting the constitu
tion. Are we seriously addrefled, when we are told, that the fav
•ngs of a revenue, which did not extft, that four-fifths of nothing
may be applied to pay the state creditors ? Without further re
garding the ridicule of the argument, let us trace the fact. The
aebt of New-Hampshire U fa id to be about 230,000 dollars—The
yearly interest at 4 per cent, is upwards of 9000 dollars. The im
post and tonnage collc&ed in that state from August to December,
ii near B,oco dollars. So that the impost of that state, fho' far
short of her a&ual contribution to the commontreafury, will, in
the whole year, greatly exceed their interest which afluming her
debt wil) throw upon the United States. Here then the fund sur
rendered by that state is more than adequate to the debt which
ought to follow it. The whole caufehas been hazarded on the
fad; and here the fact is against him who appealed to it. Ma/ I
be permitted toaflc, whether it is not to be lamented, that, thro'
iuadvertencyor mistake, the whole fact was not mentioned ? May
I demand why the non-importing states were preferred to the im
porting states for calculating the impost ? Maflachufetts collected
under a state law near 150,000 dollars impost yearly. This falls
ftiort of her present cohesion under the law of the union, which
is nearly rqual to the interest of her debt. Theexcife would have
supplied the deficiency,and 4hat fund you are about to invade. It
would be wrong to take away funds, tho* inferior to the discharge
of interest, and yet to leave the whole debtupon the state. If the
funds surrendered were equal to the debts, it hat been admitted
that the union ought to take the debts also. The injustice of ri
jecting the debts, and taking the impost to a less amount, differs
only in degree.—But why was New York paflrd over in silence !
The interest of the debt of that state would not equal the import
callotted within it. What will you fay to that state ?
The candour and impartiality of the committee will he exer
cised in deciding whether the arguments so often urged ;n favour
of the aflumption, t hat you ought to take the debts with the impost,
has loss any thing of its force b> this inveftigauon of fa&s : What
is aflcrted on one fide, and denied on the other, after a find en
quiry, ends in the fame point.
(Tc be continued.)
THURSDAJT, JUNE 24.
Sketch tf the Deiatt
In Committee ofthe whole on the report of the felrft Commit-
Mtee, on the Memorial of the OHiccri ol the N»»y.
R. SHERMAN observed, that by tlie memo
'V 3 , 1 ' a '>d the reporr, it a PP ea| s, that the
Memorialiits do not pretend to have any claim
on the public by virtue of any existing resolu
tions of Congrcfs. The fubjeci is very fully be
fore the Committee—it lays with Congress there
fore to determine, what is proper to be done in
fuch circumstances. The application itands en
11 ' ely on thebafis of its own merits, and he could
conceive of no difficulty in deciding on it.
Mr Stone observed, that it is true there is no
claim by virtue of any antecedent contractor
pronnfe-nor was Commutation,he believed, pro
nufed to the officers of the army. I n this view
the officers of the navy st and exactly upon the
fame footing with those of the army. lf e then
entered into a confutation of the merits, servi
ces and fuffenngs of the Officers of the Naw
and from these and other couf,derations, urged
the juft.ee of their claim, as he could fee no rea
™ « c } lffe, ence that had been made
Mr. Huntington said, there is but a little con
s.deration necellary to recoiled the reason of the
diffe.ence between the officers of the naw ami
hi' I he . officers of the army were firft in
the public service—the navy was not formed till
sometime after hostilities commenced—the offi
cerso. the navy were put on the fame footing
in refpedi to pay as the army-the former has
some advantages in point of rank—and thevwem
entitled to a of their captures
He then gave an account ofthe origin of r„,n
mutation which was granted on account oS
peculiar exigences of affairs at that time-D
mg the time this bulinefs was in agitation rho
were very few navy officers in tlielubcL• C
and no application was made by them for half
pay or commutation—They were »a alf '
many of them had retired to civil
son therefore why they were not included;
Commutation was, there did appear h • C
any necelfityfor themeafure, as the United Sr?"
did not then want a navy—whereas fht. ?, cs
exigence, with relpe* so the .SywerEftS
506
as rendered the resolution for the Commiuatf
to them absolutely neceflary_lie howevertho" u h'
the claim of the Navy Officers founded on iuftV
—and justice said he is the strongest plea that '■ '
be urged in fnpport of any demand whatever**"
Mr. Hartley supported the memorial, h e
the officers great credit for their bravery, for
ces and attatchment to the cause of their count v
—he dilated on the hardships and fufferiiigj
endured—he adverted to the advantages they dp
rived from captures —which he Hated to be v e r
inconsiderable—their claims said he, app ear
me to be founded on the ftridiift and molt partial
juftice—hehopedthereforethat the report
be accepted, and a committee appointed to brins.
.in a bill accordingly.
Mr. Baldwin, who was one of the felert coir
mittee which made the report, stated some o fthe
reafous which influenced the committee alio the
confederations which were supposed to have led
to the difliniflion between the navy and army in
refpecl to commutation—one of which wa&
the officers ofthe navy were in the line of their
particular calling, and which they were enabled
to pursue with perhaps greater advantages than
they ever did before. Other circumfonces
were mentioned by him tending to invalidate
their claim.
Mr. Sherman observed, that if this report is a
dopted, it will open a very wide door indeed to
applications for lialf-p3y or commutation. He
then gave a history of the origin of commutation
or half-pay—which he said was considered at the
time, as a tneafure of necessity—and not of jus
tice—and has been very much complained of
by several of the States. The above neces
sity did not exist with refpedl to the officers of
the navy—as at the time there were but 2 ors
ffiips in service. From this llate of faifts he in.
fered that no precedent could be drawn in favor
of extending the Commutation to the officers of
the navy. He thought that their cafe was enti
tled to the confederation of the Legislature onthe
principles of equity—he lhould therefore be for
the Committee's making full enquiry into the
circumstances of the whole business—and making
such provision as justice ffiould point out— but
he was against the report in its prelent latitude.
Mr. Burke replied to the observations of Mr,
Baldwin, refperting the officers of the navy being
in the way of their profeffion—and from the na
ture of the service he (hewed, that there was lit
tle weight in the observation—their circumstan
ces were very much altered for the worse—and
that they were now left in a very deftitnte fixa
tion—whereas the officers of the army are enjoy
ing ports and places of honor and profit. Their
silence on the fubjetfl had been mentioned.—He
observed that their dispersed si iuat ion had been the
pi incipul reason of tlieir not coming forward with
their petition before. Mr. Burke observed,
that the officers of the navy were not treated like
oilier prilnneis, when they were taken, theyfuf
lered peculiarly, not as prifoilers of war, but were
treated like rebels, whose crimes were of the
blackest nature.
Mr. Seney said he was, and always had been,an
advocate forthe claims of the officers of the navy
—he thought their memorial founded on theftnet
eft justice—he introduced the representation to
Congi e!'s ofthe " illuftrions" commander in chief
of the late army 011 the fubjecft of half-pay and pen
nons, which he read.
fie then entered into a comparative view ofthe
relative merits ofthe army and navy—and said it
was well known that many of them made as great
iacrificesasthe other description of officers. With
1 e'pell to prize money, he doubted whetherthey
liatl ever been benefited by ir. ]n some inftanccs
where they had the moll; they had,
thiough the failureof agents, received only a cer
tificate worth about five (hillings in the pound;
and that received only for apart ofwhat wasdue.
lie replied to the several objedii ons which had
>een offered, and concluded by (aying, it would
be nnjuft and impolitic not to grant tlieirriaims.
Mr. Sedgwick observed that no gentleman in
the committee had deeper impressions made up
on him, by the grateful recollection of the me
rits and services of those brave men, to whom
America owed its freedom, than hinifelf. Yet
under the present circumstances of the country,
he thought it a duty he owed the people who had
confided their interest to hi 9 management, to
examine, on principle, the demands which were
made upon the government for pecuniary grants.
he applicants in the present instance did not
place their demand on the ground of contrast.
>r the contrail under which the services had
been rendered, bad been complied with accord
"ig to the fpecifyed terms, and performed to the
extent of the powers of the government, in die
v. a *j C nia,lner as other claims of a fiinilar nature
d been fatisfied. It was further, he said, to be
noticed, that during the time those services were
perf-orming, no diflatisfatflion had been niani
fefted by the present memorialists. From these
observations then, it clearly followed, that in
point of contrail, the claims of the officers of the
navy were in all refpe<3s fiinilar to those of every
other individual in the community, who had re
ceived fatisfallion by the fame means. It'W'ou!then become gentlemen to reflect on the confe
»juences which would result from the eftablifl,
rnent of a precedent, which would go to the inva
lidation of ah the final fettlemems which had
been made.
Mr. Sedgwick said, gentlemen had supported
the claim of the applicants from a supposed ana
logy of their circumitances, to those of the gen
tlemen of the army. He said there was the'dif
ference which arose from the circumstance alrea
dy mentioned—The commutation was founded
in contract, the present claim was destitute of
that support. There were also other material
circumitances which very widely differed the
two cases. The officers of the army were called
from pursuits by which they were enabled to
support and provide for their families, and to
abandon their prospects of establishments by the
buhnefs to which they had been educated. On
the other hand, the gentlemen of the navy were
promised handsome wages for continuing in that
business to which they had been educafed, and
for which they were belt, if not only qualified ;
and this too, at a time when, by the destruction
ofour commerce, many of them otherwise mult
hive wanted employment. They had likewise
fn^°J , -. enC r UrafieinC " tfro ' n a Participation
in the avails of prizes, while the army derived
no emolument from any such source.
That the report of the select committee being*
iinfupporred either on the ground of contract, or
the punciples on which the grant to the officers
of the army was made, the application was mere
ly tothegenerofiy of the government. He said
!r if!| S a P !inc, P ,e fro 1" which he profefled him
felf determined never to depart, not to dilfipate
that property in idle or visionary projects of re
ef i nfe rf' ,S , necc f Ay y ro she performance
0 j '"ice. J hat the arduous fcenesin which we
had been engaged, had imposed the necelfity of
prauifmg a rigid economy. That the conduct
which we might under present embarrassments
puifue, 11 would be improper hereafter to consi
der as a precedent. That ir would indeed be a
"° ! e a ";' g c,le| ous jfentiment to compensate all
those lofles which our friends had sustained by
the war. But he asked if lucli would not be a
vain attempt . Can we compensate all the defo
Jation of fire and wanton depredation, provoked
from the enemy by the patriotism of particular
diftncts in this country? Can we retribute the
1 liftermg-s which have been caused by the deijiv
ciation of our currency ? Or the ruin of thou
lands and thousands by our delays of payment,
and the cot.sequent depreciation ofour fecui'ities >
Can we administer to the relief of rh, valt nun,-
ber of widows and orphans, who from those cir
cumstances, have been reduced from affluence
to want and beggary > Remember too, he said,
the iages, who in the hour of daneei watched
over your security—and who, in their best days,
abstracted tliemfelves from every lucrative pur
suit, and devoted all their time and talents to ihe
iervice of their country. Thcfe patriots, now in
the evening of life, are the most meritorious ob
jeCts of the generosity of the government, yet
they would nobly dildain to ask, or to receive ihe
aidot the government, however neceflary totheni,
until efficient provision was madeforthe perfor
mance of ihofe contracts, which we are under the
most solemn obligation, if in our power, to fulfil.
And lie concluded by observing that when the
improving resources ofour country should enable
the government generoufiy to compensate the
fuffenngs of those several descriptions of pei-fo.is
then and not till then, might we extend to the
memo rial i its the relief which they now fought
lor. 43
Mr Jackfonfupported the claim of the officers.
Ixeobicrved that if the country had not deiived
ljexrcnfive advantages from the exertions of the
navy, it limit be imputed to peculiar circumOan •'
ces and not to any deficiency in the officcis and
lailois—fo far as their abilities could be exerted
no men (liftinguifhed themselves more. Had ours
been a maritime, instead of an agricultural coun
try, tlie importance of a navy would have (truck
us more fore,hly j heirclaims he confidcred as
founded in the finrteft j.ultice, and he had no
doubt that if they had applied to the old Conprefs,
ley would have granted their ref
irainei by a consideration ofthe embankments
e nned States, they did not obtrude their
petitions upon them—and now this very circuni
ance is urged as a reason for not granting their
petition.—!,, my opinion thr* did them great bo
or luce that time they have been scattered
ion g., a], parts of the Union—this and other cir
cum tances have delayed their application to this
I . m , c 7 b « ' las n °t Ifllened tlie equity of it. He
3 ei. many other observation*,,and concluded by
that he was 1 ally in favor of the report.
lVli.Gerry wasin favor of i he report under cer
tain condiiions—which were, that thefatne be so
con ti lifted, as to afceriain the amount of prize
lnoney i eceived by the oflicers, and that the al
owance flionld be extended only to such, as con
tinuedin the publirferviceto the end of the war.
I He adverted to the cafe ofprizes, in which
" had been said, the officers had fuffered thro the
*raa.-,s of their agents. If this is fart, it was
ole^r? Wh,CllCallccl / 0r re^re^ —and on priuci-
Pies of equity an investi gat i o „ ought to take place
Mr IW M ''l K,ke occalion.
•,n iMS r- j, Hartle r» an<l Mr. Seney in favor—
repon r ' G ° odhue ' and Mr ' Sherman againit the
th?reI V , I nVr F ii CZfi , I J 0 | nS ' movin £ in the House, that
tiiel epoi t should be re-committed.
i Ir. Boudinot said he was opposed to the re
commitment, as he did not conceive that the re-
ST /° Uldbe granted under this report.
iri K- 63 , 1 " 18 Which he had J| eard on the
jet this day, he was convinced, that if the
commutation is extended to the meinorialifts,
Congiefs vvill have to extend it to above 1000 of
ded to°rhfff n « dlfCripd ° nS -~ lt must be exte "-
ded to the Staff officers, infeveral departments.—
enla ' gfa on the unpopularity ot half-pay and
commutation—and said, that if injustice had been
done to the memorials, every instance ought
to be enquired into, and determined on its own
merits. He was therefore in favor of reiedtine
the report—and Ibll leaving the memorial open
to an enquiry as to the particular cases which may
require an mveltigation. y
MONDAY, JUNE 28, 1790.
[ TV.E b.l! to' r. < ; ul»te fcamru in»'..= merchants fcrvicc, uis bro\
J- in engrossed, read the thud tunc, and patted.
k* the L Srcretar y at oa fundnr petitions were
i'; '?f thcr w " h 3 re P<"< "f » committee <>n the pcti
br „ C °'\ *"><«"' «Wd to a committee appointed
bring in a bill concerning difaoled (oJdien,Ac.
Mr. Wadfwurth, from the j int committee who were to confi
derand repdrt the bufmefv necelTary to be finilhed previous to an
adjournment, aHo to report when u would be proper to adjourn
reported, that in their opinion the bufmefs necttUv to be atted
upon may be completed by the , 6 ,h day of July next, and that an
Th/» t of the prcfent IclCon should take place by tnat tune
1 he report was laid on the table. 7
I he pro poled amendment uuhe bill forextendinr the tmim r
't'°"l7;;the us Rhode-Jfland, were taken into coluidera
i . an i .igiceu to. The bill was ilir it ordered to becnijroffed
«,« r ; , ~" L , rC P° r ,t ed onthe oft. H. Dai bv, winch
*as icad «ind laid on the tabic.
Mr. Amej presented a petition from the infpeaors of the ports
ot Bolton, and Charleftown, which was read and referred to the
coinmiUcc appointed to bung in a bill for the amendment oi the
revenue laws.
Mr. Parker of the committee, to whom rtie report of the S-cre
taiyat M ar on the petition of Dr. B. Middleton, was commttt ri
the table rCpo "' Wh,ch w " 10 favorut thc petition. Laid oil
On motion of Mr. Thatcher, the report of the Secretary at War,
Br "y » nd were read
accepted by thcHoufe: Ihef- wil'n some other reportsofthc
ecrctary, **ere referred to • committee, who were ordered to
bun- bill, pursuant thereto.
file Houic went mto a committee of the whole on the rcpoit
O a eject committer, refpe&.nj the Virginia ccilion, and ap.
k ' " rt ' ,ni ".« «<>» bill, for I curing tl.c refeiv.tion
made by thai st*tein said ccifi m. AJjoumcJ
TUESDA¥, JUNt 29.
•bJr.fc i m * n of «•« jfliut committee of boti. llmifes, reported,
7 had the follow,ng bills id found them duly
tw, ,k~t W ' An , Aa P'ovtding the mv',*s of intcrcouiie b<-
'"ttd St ites and Foreign Nations -a.An A3 for Unify.
„ n-tlaims ol John and An Att for the relief ol Na
tlynu-l Twining. The Speaker affixed i,i. to the fame.
, "'r W ' IS received Irom the Senate informing that the*
W ' 4ut ' ,oritl "S 'he purchase of a tiatt of land at
vv»it to nr.
'in" 0 / c *' cntiln g 'he' enumeration Law to the State of
and paired " " S b "° c "8' oli - d ' """i lh « third ume,
Ml. i-itafimons, of the felrft Committee on the bill providing
nc means °1 p, y . ng ,he mterclt 00 the debt ot the United S ates,
gitia a rcpoti, which wal read—and made the order ot the
Q y io-moir<>w.
Tin report of the committee on the petition of E. H. Dcrbv;
wasion inojio" ot Mr. Goodhue, taken into contdeiatiou; the
uDltauce ol this report is 111 of extending tlie time allowed
P' lymcnt °' on tea, trom fix, to twelve
month.; this report was accepted, and referred to the committee
appointed to prepare amendment* to the colledtioo law.
Mt. Jaikl.ni moved lh„t the committee ot the whole ihould be
a xnarged Irnin any fuithcr proceedings on the bill concerning
.1! 81 " av 'S«"»n ot the United Slates—this motion after a
1 debate was oegauvtd.-
~" r - J"y°" lhtn "">»«» 'bat the House flumld immediately
.clove "Iffrimoa committeeeil the wlmlco,l this bill, which be'
0 carried altera short debate,
Mr. Bondinot took the Chair.
1 his bill contaiucd the dilu umnauon in the duty on foiti»rt
; the firll cla ife being netted, the fubftauce ot tile lol
b>'Mr - ,n
Thai from 'fter the diy of ficltt, thtfe ftidU be
aid and cpllcfled on all lhips and vcifeli not built, or reentered
in tilt United States, a duly of per ton.
l hai on all (hips or vefllls arriving :n any patt of the United
M-uovtrom plaees at wh.oh the United State.are not permuted to
ii 2di f tlic uun oi per ion.
The rcmainining clauses of the bill being difaweed to—the
committee ruse and reported Mr. Heitter at the com
mittee appointed for the purpofc, reported a lull making further
P'oviuon tor paying the invalid pensioner*. Adjourned/
LONDON, June 6,
INDIA SI OCK.
j 'HL public cannot be too often reminded of
t be obligation they are laid under to the un
wearied attention and folicitnde of Mr, Hufiey
and Mr. I iernay, whose virtue ai:d prefeverante
have at length obtained that information which
the public have so long in vain endeavoured to
procuie. The motions of those gentlemen have
bi ought bef'oi e the House of Commons such plain
intelligible statements of the affairs of the compa
ny, as can no longer admit of the I'lnalleft doubc
bin they are ruinous beyond any retrievement.
1 he House i ave fortunately ordered the accounts
to be printed, a correlpondent lias furnilhed us
with them, and sve are enabled thereby to state
to our readers the following authentic fai-'ts, de
duced from these papers, all signed by the' Ac
countant-General of the company.
507
In the paper, No. VI. Jt !s emphatically ac
knowledged, that on the ill of February, ,789.
rl e C °!"P a "y were worse than they were on the
lit of February, r 7 8r, by 12,255,558!.
Tftfßf P T''' . N °- UL his ''"lured, 0,1 the
of March 1755 [faon after the Board of Con.
troul were appointed,] their goods in ware
house unfold were worth 2,037,894!. whereas 0,1
the lit ot March, 1793, their uulbld goods a
mounted only to 772,2 39'- And by No. V. it is
onfellcd, that their effsCts are infnfficienr to pav
leu < e its >y 4,762,54;!. andby adding 3 700,c00l
to make their capital Itock equal ro its market
puce, and 1,178,291!. the amount ofthelaftfix
Items of their effects, which it is presumed are
efperate, or at least very dubious, the deficien
cy w>!l be .ncreafed to 9,640,854!. to atlAver
which the Company have nothing to reckon up
on but what is called Uieir dead stock; which
though it has fi„ce 1702 cost the company
,222,970!. (being in truth little more than the
accumulated aggregate of all their charges for
eretfting f orrs and House, of trade,) was, in 1 783
admitted to be capable of producing very little,
any thing> | on a salt And yc * [o f J
doubt party purposes, we have seen the Compa
ny s stock rarjfied (by itratagem to its present e
iiorinoui pi ice of 1751. percent.
THE CGNTINENf.
It is not at all surprising that the ortenfible
Mnufter of France, M. Necker, and the General
Anamb.y should not be on the bed terms—lt is
the natural confluence °f a free constitution.
\* hen the Frencli were under the fetters of des
potic way, they durst not complain publicly, they
grumbled ,n secret. The motions of all Mini.
Iters ought to be narrowly watched and their
conduct as Mmifters ftri«ftly examined into
FUR J HE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATES.
Float thft FRENCH;
0 p ? y^n;Chief, Fat£tte, the ?<iod and brave,
w ■ ,m " : ' ' h,m ,llcnd Ar | a „ti c wavc .
Wh le Glory mention., France repeats thy , u;n c,
A'i<l I imc conligns it to immorial tame I
1 hough spots the fame of our liril Heroes stain.
stncechaiqing foes, they rivetted our chain :
Yet FA y ETTt breaks oppreflioo's iron rod,
A Patriot deem'd, thence grow a Demigod.
NEW-YORK, JUNE 30 , r 79 d.
APPOINTMENT
The PRESIDENT of the United States has been pleased to
byandwUhthe advlce " d tonlent of the Senate t.
l hcSitu* Dt it Mottz, Vice-Consul of the United State,
for the port of the Havre de Grace} in the Kingdom of France
We hear that the b.ll to aeterm.oe the permanent, and temoo
rary feat of government of the United States, had a second
mg in the Senate yesterday— when New-York, Philadelphia an <»
Baltimore were negatived, „ the temporary reftdence, and the
Potomac Rands in the bill as the permanent feat of Cove™
•-te"" Ih -"" "■& '■
Extras of a letter from a gentleman in
it crkrrr r friend in Amcrica.
rhA / / W l rote >' on ia ,P 1 havt «» Londou, about the - -
, '"J 0 ™" you was detained here by the Collector ;/« ailed tin f for
was not nan, rated according to law. As you are muck concert fx
menctnnijelsjthink it neeeffary to give you a particular account 0}
in J, S, "< ""/"Ifo'o inform you offome very alarmin/ t-roceci
">gs going ftsrward, on this fide the Atlantic, again} AmeriJn/hZiT,
in general. You ate acquainted that the Briti/h Navigation
quires, that the rafter and three-fourths of the Liners 1 b.atiallU
rttgn vejjels trading to England, be filbjeils of. the country the Ms be
long to. Nop ,/ isnecejjary that the Captain and three-four,lu oi
of AmtrirlT,?. "T com ' r S E "gland,fhauld iefJ>jcßt
JAmerica at the time independence was granted by England. When the
armedhere,/he had n people on boat d, out of which number I';
weicZ'JniZ c "Wi e r re rea "y
™!>o had become citizensfince the war- accord,ne to
the prfent conflruihon of the Hrttifh navigation ail, [he had one mor«
real American on board than the law requires, but 5 of the above numb
Wre app, entices, which the Cd/eilor wZd nbtalUt, be numbered L
mariners, the veffelwas in conftquence detained tilt he had the opinion of
the cmmiffioners of the cufloms j but this being too d.ffi ult a qu it,on
for ll,cm lorefolve, it was referred to the Attomcy-GtneraJ Ta 2
detaining thevejel 7 weeks, with her cargo on bo n'd he aavekis 1,
cies of inquftion which the colleilir has inflitutedagamll the imr f
only, a, he makes no fuck enquiry
" a <>on, and I amforry to add that this partial conduit of the Colic tori,
approved of by people ,n power, so, / s aw a letter hi Lord tff
hury, who particularly mentioned it j this lett e r JasZ lr ,
; Mount on all goods imported into L United Stales in American vef
have a good cjfeil,and that ai foonas he had gained
ThTlir h It Pr ,° m ' j ' ed fiould be dte.—tZ
J' have also been informed, that the merchants here have wrote out to Ame
nca, giving positive orders not tofkip any goods on board American veC
fefs , and without fvincthing ,s done m this bujinefs, the sooner you set
them on fire the better. You will afo take notice, that a TtUM fit
American teje'"" "* hold any {/t of
thoriiy'. 1C ab ° Ve MIS Undoubted - Com 'ig from the very best au-
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NLU'-YORK,
Brig Dilight,-Leader, St. Martins, 17 davs
Schooner Patty, Lacey, Shelburne, 10
Sally, PatterfoH, Shelburne, 14
Sloop New York. Packet, Shaw, Rhode-Island, 3
Polly Godfrey, ditto> di ■»
■ Rambler,- Carey, m
■By Authority.
England, to hitNEW-YORK, June 46.
The NE fVCOiVSTirjriOX aj the STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
WE, the delegates of the PEOPL Eot the State ot SOUTH- I
CAROLINA, ;n general convention met, do ordain and eitabluh
this constitution lor its government.
ARTICLE I.
Set 7. 1 The legiAative authority of this state lHall be vetted in
a vciieral" aTembly, which ihall consist of a Senate and House
of Representatives.
SeSi. 2. The house of Representatives shall be compoled o.
members chosen by ballot every second year bv the citizens of this
state, qualified as in thu constitution is provided.
The several ele&ion diftfi£ts in this state fhill elect the
number for Representatives, vi*.
Charlellon, including St. Pu'lip and
St. Michael, , Flft « n members
ChriftChun:h, Three members
St. Tohn, Berkley, Thr « members
St. Andrew, Three members
St. George. Dorchester, Three membe.s
St. l imes, Gooiecreek, Three members
St. 'Thomas and St. Denr.ls, Three members
St Paul Three members
Sti Bartholomew, Three members
St. Tames, Santa, Three members |
V John, Colleton, Three member,
St. Stephen, Three members
St. Helena, T h rce membe.s
r Three members
Prince WiUUm, Three members
Peter Three members
All baints, including its ancient boun
daries,
Winyaw, not in lading any part of A.i
Saints,
Kingston, not including any part o. All
Saints,
Williamfburgh,
Liberty,
Marlborough,
CheftcrficM,
Darlington,
York,
Chcltcr,
Fairfield,
Richland,
Lancaßer,
Kerfhaw,
Claremont,
Claredon,
Abbeville,
Edgefield,
Newbury, including the fork between
Broad and Saluda Rivers,
Laurens,
Union,
Spartan,
Greenville,
Pendleton,-
St. Matthew,
Orange, c
Winton, including thediftrift between ba
lannah river, and the North for*, of
tr j • a Three members
„ J*™- Three members
Saxc Gotha, _ i_• _
Sea. A. Every free white man. of the age of 21 years, being
a citizen of thi.fe.te, and having resided therein
ousto the day of election, and who hath a freehold of fiftyacres
of land, or a town lot, of which he hath Deer, legally eiM
poffclfcd at least fix months before such election, or not h.vi ig
tuch freehold or town lot, hath been a refulent in the clca ' on df
trift in which he offers to give l.isvote fix months jeforc the: fa.d
election, and hath paid a tax the preceding year of three fhlllmg.
sterling towards the support of this government, (hall hive a right
to vote for a memb«r or members to serve in eit er >ran ' 1 ° 110
legislature for the election dilluft in which he holds such propeity,
•r is so refidetit. , , * .
Sea. s. The returning officer, or any. °tto person prelent,
entitled to vote, may require any person who ftiall otFer h's vote
ft an election, to produce a certificate of his c.t,zen(h.p, and a re
ceipt from the tax collector: of his l>avin S paid a tax, entitling him
to vote, or to swear, or to affirm, that he is duly qualified' to vote
agreeable lo this constitution.
Sea 6 No person shall be eligible to a feat in the house of
representatives, unlef. he is a free white man, of the age of twenty
one years, and hath been a citizen and res.dent in this state three
years previous to hi.elfftion. It a res.dent in the cleft,on d.ftnft,
he stall not he eligible to a feat in the houlc of reptefcmat.ve.,
unlets he be legally seised and pofleffed in his own right, ol a fet
tled freehold estate of five hundred acres of land, and ten negroes j
o, ofreal estate of the value of one hundred and fifty pounds
lie, ling clear of debt. If a non-resident he fhaU he legally seised
and poffctw of a fettled estate therein of the value of five hundred
pounds fierlinc clear of debt. , , . , , .
Sea. 7. The senate (hall be composed of members to be cho.
fen for four years, in the following proportions, by the citizens of
this ftate,qualified to cleft members to the house of reprcfe, natives,
at the fame time, in the fame manner, and at the fame places
vhere they shall vote for rejr«fent«ivr», viz.
Charleston, including St. Phi up and St.
Michael, I >° memb L c "
Chr.ft Church, One member
St. |jhn, Berkley, One
St. Andrew, One member
St. fi«org«, One member
St. Tames, Goofecreek, One member
St. Thoma. and St. Dennis, One member
p au j One member
St." Bartholomew, One member
St. James, San tee, One member
St. John, Colleton, One member
St. Stephen, One member
c. One member
. Sr. Helena, .
c. i i, ~ xOne member
- . } St. Luke,
Prince William, One member
St. Peter, One number
All Saints, One member
Winy aw. and Williamfburg. One member
liberty and Kingston. One member
Marlborough, Chefterfield, and Darlington.Two members
y or | c One member
Fmfield, Richland, and Chcftfr, One mcmbef
LamalHr and-Ketfliaw, One mcmbV
Claremont and Clarendon, One member
. i , One member
Abbeville, .
T . , r , , One member
Edgefield, .
Newbury- including the f«rk between ifread .
j <_• i aOne member
and Saluda ri.ers,
, One member
at ! reDS » One member
, ,1Ion » One member
partan, One membei
l r %T/ llc ' 'One member
Pendleton, X ,
St. Matthew and Orange, One member
Winton, including the diftrift between Savap
nah River,and the north fork, of Ediflo, One member
Saxe Gotha, On. member
One member
Three members
Two members
Two members
Two members"'
Two members
Two members
Two members
Tbiee members
Two members
Two members
Two members
Two members
Two members
Two members
Two members
Three members
Three membeis
Three members
Three members
Two members
Two members
Two membeis
Three membeis
Two members
Two members
(Tq ic antinuti-)
A Description of a curious piece of L_LOC!'
WORK, lately fi.iilhed by Mr. W-'Jtjr• |
iun. (a young man ot 2 5 years of age, aiKl bi e
J to no kind qf bafinefi) ot Nantucket, Mafia
n" U pe"rforms the office of a common Eight Da]
Clock, but what is molt extraordina. y, is t le .
ronomical part, which at once dilcovers che in
xenuity of the inventor When the bun ihoul
■ife there is a Sun rises in the machine, comes u
be meridian, and sets at the time the Sun in th«
leavens fliould set at all seasons ot the year, and
■xhibits the Sun's declination, place 111 the tcl 1
ic, Time of her riling and setting every day oi
he year ; when the Moon fliould rife, there is a
Vloou that rises in the Machine, making the fame
ippearance that the Moon in the Heavens fliould
nake, comes on the meridian, and sets at the pi o
,er time, making all the different appearance;
hat we fee the Moon make 111 the Heavens.
It exhibits the Moon's declination, time ot high
md low water at all times of the year, and keeps
he date of the year for the space ot one centui y
without requiring any alteration.
By this machine the curious phenomena ot the
rlarveit Moon, is rendered plain and ealy to be
inderftood by the meaneftcapacity.
It is all performed with forty wheels, and .1
"uitable number ot pinions, beside a large num
>er of leavers, coins, &c. and contained between
WO brass plates, seven inches long, and five inch
■s wide, and between one of the laid plates and
he dial plate, which is eighteen and an halt inch
's long, and fourteen inches wide , thethickneis
Yom thedial plate to the back plate, is fiveinch
■s ; it is kept in motion by two weights ot the
i/.e of the weights of a common Clock, and that
notion kept regular by a second pendulum,
here is one wheel in it that keeps in motion con
inually, but that motion is so llow as to take up
he space of about eighteen and an half years to
perform one revolution.
PITTSBURGH, May 29.
InMeflVs. DunlapandClaypoole's Pennsylvania
Packet an the 6th of May lalt.is a long memorial
or representation from the chiefs of the 6 nations
of Indians, to the fupreine Executive council of
this itate, Hating, that they have no place to trade
but at Pittiburgh,and when they come there, th e y
have their camps plundered, and their horles and
canoes stole, by the white people, and when they
apply for redress 110 man can underftandthem, to
hear, judge and interpret, so tlia. the •wrongs done
them may be redrelled ; and praying, that the
great fire of the Quaker State would appoint
(oine person at Pittsburgh to judge and interpret
for them ; also, that the cornpJanter, Half 1 own
and the New Arrow, together with an interpret
er, may attend the great fire, to make known
their grievances, &c.
On reading the inemorial(of which the above
is a short extracft) obfervesa correspondent, I was
led to reflect a little on the fubjetf, and must con
fefs, cannot lee auy advantage it would be to the
Hate to appoint persons, as agent and interpreter,
to reside in this place, to attend on the Idians
when they come to trade ; on the contrary, it is
well known, that when the Indians have any
persons they can apply to for presents, they grow
lazy, and will not hunt as long as they can do
without it ; indeed those who trade at this place,
are of that beggarly kind, who continue here af
ter they have fold their skins and devoured what
they have got for them, and then depend upon
the people of this place and its vicinity for a sub
sistence for several-weeks; or*in the season pillage
the corn fields of the farmers, of a great par,t of
the crop. If while they are trading they receive
any injury, by application to any of our magi
strates, they would receive as much fatisfaifiion
as the cafe will admit j and there are many per
sons in this place who speak Indian well, that
would interpret for them on fnch occasions, with
out receiving a yearly salary. It is hoped coun
cil will examine this affair minutely, before they
attempt saddling the state with a burthen so ob
noxious to the people.
SAILING CARRIAGE.
The carriage, in which Mr. Slater, who lately '
went over land with difpatclies to the Ea(t-In
dies, traversed the Arabian deserts, went at the
rate of twenty miles an hour, so that it was sup
posed from Alexandtia it would reach Boflbra in
a few days. It was conftrucled with broad
wheels, and impelled by fails in the fame man
ner as a ihip, and so contrived, that it went as
close to the wind as any cutter; and carried
swivels to guard against the wandering Arabs.
When he fir ft set off in this machine, the wind
was fair and moderate, and he was accompanied
many miles by a confulerablenumber of persons,
mounted on camels and fleet horses, whom curi
ofiry attracted ; but, in fonie time the wind frefh
ening the motion became so rapid that they were
obliged to give up the pursuit. At Alexandria
several ingenius mechanics have improved upon
this original mode of progreflion, and it is said
that machines are now contriving which travel
even with more expedition,|and yet ■with perfed:
security.
508
?n'!CE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
JUNE
Jamaica spinu, 5/6.
Antigua Ram, 4 jy. «* 4/*
St. Croix, do. <$./8.
Country, d-i. ,3/.
Molaflt 5, "71* ",vs
Brandy, 7J.
Geneva, sf-
Do. in cases, 28\f.
Mufcovudo Sit ;ar, a 7-J'
Loaf, do. 1/4.
Lump, do. ij 2 z'
Pepper, 2/9.
Pimento,
Colfee, 1/3. 1/4*
Indigo, (Carolina) .3/ «6/
Do. French, 18/. 10/.
Rice, 231. l*J.
Superfine Hour, 6?/.
Common do. 58J.
Rye do. 30f a 28f.
Indian Meal, 18/ I 20/7
Rye, sj' P r -
Wheat, 11/. a icj/6.
Corn, (Southern)
Do. (Northern,) 4/4.
Beef, fir ft quality, 50/ I
Pork, firft quality, Bos.
Oats, 2/2.
Fhx-fecd, 5/.
Ship bread per cwt. tl/. 247.
Country refined > 2gl k .
If bar-iron, )
Do. bloomery, 251. & 261.
Swedes do. 45 1.
Ruilia do. 30 1.
Pig-iron, 81 10f. a. 91.
German fleel, gtf.per lb.
ails American, by calk. )
Nper. lb. 4d. >
Do. do. do. 6d. 12d.
Do. do. do. Bd. gjrff.
Do. do. do. icd.}
Do. do. do* tad.f oij
Do. do. do. a'od.f 7 * 2 "
Do. do. do, 24d. )
Pot ash, per tor, 391. a 401.
Pearl aih, 481 a 501.
lires-v»-ri>c per lb. 'if
Mackaiel per barr. j6/!
Heirincjs, 18\f. 16\f.
Mahogany, Jamaica, / lQ j
per toot, S
Dominico, do. prf.
Honduras, do. 7d.
Logwood unchippcdjpr.ton. 81.
Do. chipped. 14!.
2 inch whitdoak ) . r
plank, per m. { 1 " •*'
1 inoh do. 51.
2 inch white pine 81.
inch do. 61. 10f
1 inch do. 31. 10/!
2 inch pitch pine do. ioI.
Do. 22 inch do. 11. 8/.
Cedar 2 inch do. il. tof
11 inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 4].
Pitch pine (cantling, 31. Sf.
Cyprus 2 feet shingles, tl. 10f
PROPOSA~_,
For printing by SUBSCRIPTION, on a fine paper, »nh« «(W
and elegant American letter, raft by |ohn BAiNE v a™C y -
TRAV E L S
Through Worth and South-Carolina, Georgia, Eajt and ft (/? Kmw,f e
Cherokee Nations, and through the extevfive 7 emtorics of the • Ivp
gulgcs, or Creek and the country oj the Ch&taw:
CONTAIN INC
AN Account of the foil and natural produ&ions of tnole rc-^
gions, together with observations on the manners and cu.-
toms of the ludians. ,
15 y William Bartram, Botanist, of Philadelphia, w.o
was employed from 1773 to 1777, by the celebrated Dr. Fotntfj}
of London, to explore the extenfwe countries above-meotiont .
CONDITIONS. . Ar
I. It is expe&ed the work will contain between five an .iv
hundred pages of letter press, carefully executed, price to n cm
bcrs twoSj?jni(h milled dollars, in an handfomc OtttVQ vo u ,
neatly bound and lettered. ,
11. Whenever names arc obtained for two hunare cop- >
the work will be put to press. . , , nt
111. The work will be interspersed with fix or eight c«
copperplates, defcriptivc of the plants, animals, &c. pccu 1 r
countries through which the writer travelled, the bun o c -
warrior Micho-chlucco, chief or gr, at king of the s
Lower Creeks, executed in a masterly manner, w ill be givci
trontifpiecf. •. i lO l
IV. Every fubferiber for twelve copies, lhall be cnti
thirteenth gratis. iters'
Subscriptions are received by James and Johnson, the P r ''
Philadelphia. And by the principal printers and boo -
the Continent. -
& C O N T I N E NTAt 7
\ AND vis
j STA J J SECUR IX ' "
• BOUGHT AND SOLD* ~ j
' AT NO. 196.
• C-J" A generous pi ice will be given sor Military ft
§ and Jersey Paper Mcr.es.
<-&-> c<?~> ocs-> —
■ " - ■ ■ ■ , - '.
CASH, 'and a generous price
nental, New-Hamp(hire, MaflachufetHi
fecuritiej, of every eJenoraiiution.by
EBENEZER THAYER, juti. No. S9' , J
New-Yoik, April 17, 1790. —
The Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA, ,fW
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, /«»
o'clock every morning except Sun ay.
Broad-Way, New-York Jvrie 5, i 79 0, '
To be LET, ar,cl t>oftflion give" fIJRNi-
THE HOUSE No. 27, From Sirecfc 1P a m^>° tll " ,
TUR.E will be fold, on re 3 fon ? ble .« ■ «°
tire Tenant, if required. Apply on I * lC P ,ciril
June 12,1790.
30. Dollars at B>.
Do. 22 inch do. it 6/.
Do. 18. Hicii do. 18/
Butt white oak Haves, 3r/
, Pipe do. do. 91.
1 Hoglhcad d«<do. 6'. »of.
Do. do. heading, Bi.
I rilh battel <10. staves, 31. 5/!
Hogshead red oak. do. 5!.
D 6. FrCnch do. £l.
Hogflread hoops, 41.
Wluteoak square timber ) ,
per square foot, lw *'
Red wood, per ion, ißi.
Fuft'ick, itil.
Beaver, per lb. r/ «i 6).
Ott r per (kin, g[ 3*A
Grey tox, 4/7.
Martin, 4 Jio.
Racoon, sjSa'jfS.
Mufkrat, ic</. u 1
Beaver hats, 64/
Castor do. 48/ I
Chocolate, 14^.
Cocoa. 70/ I 4 So/.
Cotton, fcjf.
Tar, pr. bar. 11/6.
j Pitch, 12/ <z 13/*.
| Turpentine, ixf.uioj.
Tobacco, James River, \d.<23V.
Do. York, 4<f. a 3J&
Do. Rappafianock, 2</ a
Do. Maryland, coloured,
Do. Weftern-lhore, id a
Lead in pigs, pr cwt. 6c\J.
Do. bars, 68\f.
Do. Shot, 68f.
Red lead, 68/
White do. dry, 95/
White do. in oil, 5/. 12/.
Salt-petre hams, 7s/
Spet mateli candles, 3/
Mould do. \id. a :j.
Tallow dipt, 9^d.
Soap, fid. a Bd.
Caflile soap, 9d. a io</.
Englilh cheese, pr. lb. 15V.
Country do. SJ. 6i.
Butter, Sd.
f. Hyson tea, qf.
Sequin do. 6/0.
Bohea do. 2J6.
I 2/ J 2/6.
Staich Poland, y</.
Snuff, ?/3.
Allutn (alt, water mca- ) r .
sure, pr. bufti. )
Liverpool do. 2/.
Madeira wine, ) go/ •
pr. pipe, )
Port, 46/.
Lisbon, pr. gal. J
Teneriff, 4/
Fy»U, 3/3-
Spermaceti do, 0/.
Shake-down hhds. 3/6
Dutch gun-powder,pr. rwt.fi/
Nail rods, pr. ton, 34/. 3 8!.
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal. 4/
Whale do. pr. barrel, 50/^6/.