ojftß
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AMD SATURDAYS BY 70HM rnrun »•
... > OHN FE/ *NO, No. 4 <, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 52, if Vol. ll.]
From the ENGLISH REVIEW
t-JR AWEMBER, i 787.
thc Conflict,„ ns of Government of the United
of ,hl A A m "' ca f - .B y J" HN Adam,, LL.D. and a Member
of the Academy of Arts and Sciences at Bolton.]
American revolution has produced ma
. «y theones and fpecnlations on govern-
Jnent and politics. Leg.flators have flawed up
in eyeij pare of Europe and America who wished
to give law. to the new world, and to change
the chaos of American anarchy into a regular
and order,yfy Item It is much robe doubted,
i- her s Peculative politicians are fit
oFmII r C J , . rsofmcil ' orthe lucubrations
of the closet to form the model of public life.
The most chimerical systems of legislation have
been adopted and recommended by men of un
common genius and extensive learning. The
dreams and visions of Plato and Sir Thomas
More, and even of Milton and Locke, are, in
I *l?n^il artS ' as w " t ' alu ' eccen tric as the ravinp-s
ot Bedlam. A philosopher mav make luccefsful
experiments on air and electricity, may excel in
algebraical calculations, may wander in the ma
zes of metaphysics, without being bewildered •
nay, he may defend the principles of liberty
and the rights of mankind with great abilities
and much success ; and, after all, when called
upon to produce a plan of legislation, he may
aitonilh the world with the aberrations of iiuel
left and the vagaries of fancy. Mr. Locke, in
1663 was employed to compote a code ofleffifla
tion for Carolina ; with one stroke of his pen he
committed the whole authority, legifluive and
executive, to the eight proprietors of the pro
vince. By this new oligarchical sovereignty he
created at once three orders of nobility ; barons
with twelve thousand acres of land ; caciques
with twenty.four thouland ; and landgraves
with eighty thousand. Subjects were wanting
to this ill-modelled government, the colony de
cayed, and the fyltein of the philolopber perilh
ed in its abfui diiy.
Three wiir-rs i,, Europe, of abilities and re
putation, M. Turgot, the Abb:-de Mably, and
Dr. Price, have turned their attention to the po
litical constitutions of thc Uniied States of Ame
rica, and have published rothe world their (pe
culations and their criticisms. Notwithflandinir
the pure intentions of the authors, the experi
ence in" public affairs acquired by one of them*,
and the ample information concerning the na
ture of man and the l'cience of government pof
fefled by many sentiments occur in their
works which it will be difiicfllt to reconcile to
icafon, experience, the couititution of human
nature, and the firll principles of policy adopted
by all enlightened nations, whether ancient or
modern. M. T urgot in his letter to Dr. Price,
acknowledges " that he is not fatisfied with the
'< constitutions that have hitherto been formed
" for the different Suites of America." He ob
f£i ves that, by most of them, the customs of
" England have been imitated, without any
" particular motive. Inrtead of collecting all
" authority into one centre, that of the nation,
" they have established different bodies ; a body
" ot representatives, a council, and a governor j
" because there is in England a house of com
" mons, a house of lords, and a king. They
" endeavor to balance these different powers,
" as it this equilibrium, which in England may
" be a neceflary check to the enormous influence
" of royalty, could be of any nfe in republics
" founded upon the equality of all thecitizens ;
" and as if eltabli/liiug ditferent orders of men
" was not a fourceof divisions and disputes-"
From the commencement of rhe revolution in
America there has been a party in every State
which entertained fentiniems similar to those of
M. Turgor. Two or three of them have ertab-
liihecl governments upon his principle ; and pro
posals have been made in several states of Ame
licato depole the governor and fenace as ulclefs
and expensive branches of the Constitution. As
the opinion of M. Turgot contributed to excite
tliel'e discontents amcng the people, Mr. Adams
held it a political and moral duty to examine his
theory at great length ; to call the experience of
part: ages to enlighten the preferit; and, from a
wide and extended view of human affairs, to mark
and ascertain tliofe principles of legislation and
government which give order, success, liability,
and duration to politico, eftablilhinents and to
civil society. The subject is certainly one of the
wort: interesting that can engage the speculation
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9 , , 79 0.
or pro 111 pc the decilioa of men. What combina
tion of powers in society, or what form of govern -
ment is m°ft likely to secure the eltabliifiment,
and the impartial execution, of good and equal
laws, so that the citizens may enjoy the benefit
or them, and confide in their perpetuity, is an
inquiry that equally concerns the philosopher and
the citizen ; for, whether the end of man, in this
itage of existence, be enjoyment or improvement,
or both, it can never be attained so well iu a bad
government as a good one,
1 he great and leading idea which runs through
the ingenious and learned work of Mr. Adams is,
that a mixture ot the three powers, the regal, the
ai iftrocratical, and the detiiocratical, properly
[ balanced, composes the mod perfetft form of go
vernment, and secures the greatelt degree of hap
piness to the greatest number of individuals —
This policy, indeed, appears to be the initiation
ot nature. Vitruvius discovered the rudiments
of architecture in the conltruc r tion of a rutticcab
'iii ; and the historian or philosopher may trace
the origin of the three powers in political society,
m the rude governments of savage tribes. Every
nation North-America has a king, a senate,
and an allembly of the people. The royal office
is elective, but it is for lit" ; the facheins form
the ordinary council, in which all the national
affairs are deliberated ant.' discussed ; but, on |
great occasions, such as declaring war, the kino
ano sachems convoke a nai ionai afTembly,
af'er a foleinn facrifice, communicate their refo-
lution to the people, fhofe who approve of the
war, yartake the facrifice, throw the hatchet into
a tree, after the example of the king, and join in
the luafeqiient war-fangs av.i dances, as a mark
of their concurrence with tle expedition. A fi
milarforin of policy prevailed apiong the ancient
Greek?. " It is ealy t o observe from Homer,"
fays Aristotle, " that the ancient governments
of Gieece were limited ; t(ie king proposed to
the a lembly of the people ,iiat beforehand had
been concerted an<l in rlic counrjl of
the chiefs. J lie political institutions of our
German ancestors were formed 011 the fame prin
ciple. "Dt minorib us rebus," lays Tacitus,
principts consultant, de Tn,ijoribui ovines ; ita ta
utenut ea qtinque, quorum penes ptebem ar bit rum ell,
apui prtncip.s pr*traftentur.**'
j Among the ancients, the fame Tacitus extols
the form of government in which there is a chief
or leader, a senate, and a popular aflembly, tho
he doubts ot its prac'iicabilicy and duration.
Cundas nat tones, et urbcs, populus aut prions, aut
f'pguli, reguut. Detetta ex his et conjiituta reipub
)or"u> t*udari facilius quam i/iveniri ; vet [i
,a! "} di "t«ma eft potejtf." Cicero is deci
ded in giving the fame preference : Stutuo ef op.
time conjtitiitam rempubticam, qt/.e ex tribus generi
n\ ''!' s ' r! £"t'y °ptimo et poputari, mo dice conf'u/ai."
rolylnus and Dionyfius of Halicarnaflus gi ve their
teltimony to the fame doctrine, and affirm that
the molt perfect form of government is that which
conlilts of an equal mixture of monarchy, altrif
toe racy, and democracy.
1 lie observation of.M. Turgot, that " tliecuf
toms of England are imitated in moll ofthenew
constitution! in America, without any particular
motive, ' is shewn by Mr. Adams to be without
foundation. _ Supposing that the Englilh cuftoins
were merely indifferent, the people by their birth,
education, and habits, were familiarly attached
to them ; and thisfurely was a particular motive
for their preservation, rather than endanger the
public tranquility or unanimity by renouueing;
them. A divifiou of power was adopted bv the
itates, confifling of a body of representatives, a
council, and a governor, not because the leeifla
ture in England confiltcd of three branches, a
house of commons, a lionfe of lords, and a king
but because their own aflemblies had been so con!
ltituted from time immemorial ; and besides their
attachment from habit, the conclusions of reason
led them to the conviction that it was founded in
nature, and conducive to public good.
* Some cci:ion» red « ptrtraScntur," which lufci the idea of
Tacitus altogether. + Anna), lib. iv.
+ Cicer. Fragm de Rcpublica.
(To be continued.)
LONDON.
ACCOUNT oj the late Mr. JOHN LEDYARD, a
CELEBRATED TRAVELLER.
MR. LED YARD was an American by birth
and seemed from his youth to have felt an
invincible defireto make hirol'elf acquainted with
~ yer/i
621
. k*/so-
unknown or imperfectly discovered regions ot
the globe. For several years lie had lived with
the Indians of America, had studied their man
ners and had pratitifed in their fohool the means
of obtaining their protection, and of recommen
ding himfelf to the favour of lavages. In the
Humble situation of corporal of marines, to which
he submitted rather than relinquish his pursuit,
lie had made with Captain Cook the voyage round
the world, and feeling on his return an anxious
desire of penetrating from the North.weitem
coast, which Cook had. partly explored, to the
eastern coast with which he himfelf was perfectly
familiar, he determined to travel fe the vast con
tinent from the Pacific to the Atlantic Ocean.
His firft plan for the purpose was that of embark
ing in a veflel which was prepared to fail 011 a
voyage of commercial adventure to Nootka
Sound ; on the western coast of America ; and in
this view lie expended in sea stores the greatest
part of the money which his chief benefactor fir
Joseph banks, (whose generous condutfl the wri
te! of this narrative has often heard him acknow
ledge) had liberally supplied. But the fchemc
being fruftrated by the rapacity of a cnflom
house officer, who had seized and detained the
tor reasons which on legal enquiry, proved
to be frivolous, he determined to travel overland
to Kanifchatka, from whence the paflage to the
western coast of America is extremely /lion.
With not more than ten guineas in his purse,
which was all that he had left, he eroded the
'tiwi Channel to Oltend, and by that of Den
mark and the Sound proceed to the capital of
Sweden ; from whence as it was winter, he at
tempted to traverse the Gulph of Bothnia on the
ice, in order to reach Kanifchatka by the flioi test
way ; but finding when he came to the middle
ot the sea that the water was not froze;:, lie re
turned to Stockholm, and taking Ins course
northward, walked into the Axftic circle, and
parting round the head of the Gulph, descended
on i'j eastern fide to Peterfbnrfth.
1 here he was soon noticedas an extraordinary
man. Without stockings or shoes, and too much
poverty to provide himfelf with either,he received
and accepted an invitation to dine with the Por
tuguese Ambaflador, 1" 0 this invitation ic was
probably owing that he was able to obtain the
urn of twenty guineas for a bill on Sir lofeph
banks, which he confeffed he had no authority
to draw, but which, in consideration of the busi
ness that lie had undertaken, andof the prog, efa
that he made, Sir Joseph, he believed, would not
be unwilling to pay. To the Ambaflador's in
terest it might also be owing that he obtained
permiflion to accompany a detachment of stores
which the t-mprefs had ordered to be Cent to
Yakutz, for the use of Mr. Billings an En<rli(h
man at that time in her service. &
rhrnnT c-°'. n °'"° date d he travelled eaftwavd
through Siberia 6°°° „ n les to Yakutz, where he
was kindly received by Mr. Billings, whom he
remembered on board Capt. Cook's (hip i„ t he
fhe a F° n ° f f Af ? i ro , no " ,er ' s lervant, but to whom
"" r "" cd the fth ™« »f
F rom Yakutz he proceeded to Oczaclcow
the coast of the Kamchatka sea ; from whence
he meant to have palled over to that peninsula
of the r V fr em r^ d on the eastern fide >n one
of the Ruffian veflels, that trade to the western
Ihores of America ; but finding that the nav£?
tion was completely obftrudted by the ice he re
turned again to Yakutz, in order to the
conclusion of the winter.
S "^ h . hjs situation, when, in consequence
of (ufpieions not hitherto explained, or?efei.t
ments for which no reason is affigued he was
di." whi ft !
jS,™,'." *" SU " d ' » ptate
ve!"ed h th , h d Ve f u P r° V i rty ' Covered w »h rag S , i„.
dit, unkown, and full of miferv L ] JI '
ho °°"° f 1s
course to his old benefaftoTr^n^KcluV
/ <y®
[Who le No. i 56.]i"ound a person frho Was willing to take his draft
for five guineas oti the Prelideut of the Royal
Society.
With this affiftancehe arrived in England, and
immediately waited on Sir Joseph Banks, who
told him, knowing his temper, that he believed
lie could recommend him to an adventurealmoft
as perilous as the one from which he had return
ed ; and then communicated to him the wilhes
of the aifociation fordifcoveriug '.he inland coun
tries of Africa.
Mr. Ledyard replied, that he had always de
termined to traverse the contiitent of Africa, as
f >qn as he had explored the interior parts of 1
North America ; and as Sir joseph had offered
him a letter of introduction, he came dire (ft to
the writer ot these memoirs. Before I had
learnt from the note the nanieandbufinefsofmy
viGtor, I was it ruck with the manliness of his
person, the breadth of his cbeft, the openness of
his countenance, and the iuquietude of his eye.
J opened the map of Africa before him, and tra
cing a line from Cairo to Sennar, and from
thence weft ward in the latitude and supposed di
rection of the Niger, 1 told him that was the rout
by which 1 was anxious that Africa might, if pos
sible, be explored. He said he ihould think him
felf Angularly fortunate to be entrulted with the
adventure. I asked him when he would set out ?
—To-morrow morning was his answer.
Oil this grand Adventure Mr. Ledyard left
London on June 30th, 1788, and reached Cairo,
in Egypt, on the 19th of Anguft, from whence
he transmitted such accounts to his employers as
plainly (hewed he was atraveller of observation
and reflection, endowed with a foul for discove
ry, and formed for atchievments of hardihood
and peril. Jie had promised his next communi
cation for Sennar, about 600 miles south of Cai
ro ; bat death put an end to the hopes that were
entertained of his proje&ed journey.
We (hall conclude this (hort (ketch with Mr.
Ledyard's character of the female sex : " I have
always remarked that women, in all countries,
are civil, obliging, tender and humane ; that
they are ever inclined to be gay and cheerful,
timorons and modest ; and that they do not he
fitate, like men, to perform a generous a«ftion.
Not haoghty, arrogant, nor supercilious, they
are full of courtesy, and-fond of society ; more
liable in general to err tliaii man, bat generally
more virtuous, and performing more good adti-
he. To a woman, either civilized or
savage, k never addrefied myfelf in the language
of decoram and friendihip, without receiving a
decent and friendly answer—with men it has ben
otherwise.
_ *< In manuring over the barren plains, of in
4iofpitable Denmark, through honelt Sweden,
and frozen Lapland, rude and churlish Finland,
unprincipled RulSa, and the wide spreading re
gions of the wandering Tartar :—lfhungary,
ary, cold, wet, or lick, the women have ever been
friendly to me and uniformly so ; and to add to
this virtue (so worthy of the appellation of be
nevolence) thel'e actions have been performed
in so free and so kind a manner, that it I was
dry, I drank the sweetest draught—and it hun
gry, I eat the coarfeit morsel with a double re-
[IT m ly not be unacceptable to thofc mho feel the pride of enterprise, to
knew, thai Mr. John Ledyard was an American, born at Groton, in Con- j
neduut ;hi $ grand father was a native of Br iflol, in England, his fa
ther, Mr. John Ledyard dud when his children were young, who were
John, Thomas, George and Fanny—our bold traveller toas the eldejl,
who was taken bt his grandfather, John Ledyard, Esq. to Hartford,
and received a Latin and English Jfchool education —his patron died, «zn<i
UJt htm at 18 jetrs old, to follow the bent of his own inclination.
Pojfejfcd of a vigorous imagination, and a heart susceptible of benev int
impressions, he embraced the fiudx of religion, that breathes good will to
nun, to give full scope to thoje affedions. I, who was acquainted with
An minds-eye, am clear that no wayward thought hojlile to the peace of
any individual, ever found a welcome there—his whole life evinces it, as
tt may be truly said, to have been spent to benefit mankind, Jrom which,
be could not be diverted by hunger, cold or peril. To have the advan
tage of books and inflrudion, he went to Dartmouth College ; and here
it was, he learned the manners of the Aborigines, ar.d those means of
recommending 'nmfclf to their favor, which rendered him fofen iceable to
Capt. Cook in his voyages of discovers. He quitted this Academy after find
-IMg that his means / not enable him to go through the usual course cf
Academicfludies ; he left Dartmouth without a fhillingin his pocket, and
fru>u that moment, ftem'l to fur: devoted himfelf to those objeds, in
which his life has been spent. manes for tie journey to Hart
ford, by land, he but ft a canoe 50 Jeet long, by 3 feet breadth—after
rafng a booth of willow bufkes over her fieri, and receiving fomearyed
venison and a few bear skins on board, which made up all his sea flores.
tie embarked for Hartford, where he arrived fife, to the aftonifkment of
those who re'lertedupon the fatigue and hazardoj navigating in an open
bt, .f, a rapid river, upwards of 140 miles t w it h u \ich he was totally un
acquainted.
After a short fax at Hartford, he worked his pajfage to Kew-York,
a ndj",iipped bef->; tbe ma (I for London, in 1771, r*. hen quitting that em
filcj, he ente*ed a rtrporal of Marines to Capt. Cook, for the voyage, to
be N. IV. Cuijl of America ; he was present at the tragical death of Capt.
Cttoi. at Ou\ f .ee, by tv.hicA accident Mr. Ledxatd often said. he lofl his
best friend. After m abferce of Un years, and fuppojed dead, by his
friends, kc returned in 1781, to America in a Brilijh frigate, which
Oem j ordered into Hjrtington harbor, Long-Ijland, to refit. Mr. Led
yard embraced this opportunity to join his friends, and crojfed the found
•'5 boat. During this lifit % he bub!jhed the principal fads of Capt.
Cooks voyage, before that fp/endid relation of it came out m England,
though wjhv occurrences aere omitted Jor a ant ofhis journal, which he
zoas obliged to give up to the board of admiralty—he likewise offered his
fen-ices to fevera! mercantile companies toco .duel a commercial voyage to
the Y. W. coafi of Amei ica ; but failing of fuccejs, he embarked in 1 782,
for Europe, Jince w'.icA time, to his aeath, at 0 rand Cairo in Egypt, the
•London accounts cf him are corroborated by Utters to hisfriends.
He u.as bc,d as a /:. ar.dgtntU a; he uw bold. The moji furmidtr
It ii£turtgittr.fsj~-ivd 'id totiJfreft to Ku mind, ted ft
LONDON.
[TSr JolXown* ieantiful LIKES acre written t- Mr.Cuu itn.wa,
on tic Marriage oj Miss Sackvijlc to Mr. Heibcrt.J
Y£ rolcmn pedagogues, who teach
A language by eight part* of fpcech,
Can any ol you all impart
A rule to conjuga-.e the heart ?
Grammarians did you ever try
To construe and expound the eye ?
And from the Syntax ot the face
Drcline its gender and its cafe ?
What said the nuptial tear that feU
Froin lair Eliza, can you tell ?
And yet it spoke upon her cheek
As i loquent as tear could speak.—
" Heie, at Goo's altar as X Hand,
T<> plight my vows, and yield my hand,
With faultering tougue whilst I proclaim
The ccflion of my virgin name ;
Whilst in my ear is read at large
The Rubrick's stern enfofteri'd charge,
Spare me {the silent pleader cries,'
Ah spare me, ye surrounding eyes !
Ufhcr'd amidst a blaxe of light,
Whilst here I pass in public light,
Or kneeling by a fathei's fide,
Renounce the daughter for the bride;
Ye lifters, to my foul so dear,
Say, can I check the rising tear ?
When at this awlul hour I cast
My memory back on time that's pall,
Ungrateful were I to forbear
This tribute to a lather's care;
for all he suss t'd, all he taught,
Is there not due some tender thought ?
And may not one fond tear be given
To a dear faint that rcfts in heaveu ?
And you to whom I now betroth,
Tn fight of heaven, my nuptial oath ;
Who to cobility of birth
True houor join, and native worth,
If mv according bofoin draws
Oneligh, misconstrue not the cause ;
Tmlk mr, though weeping, I rejoice.
And, blushing, glory in my choice."
fROM THE MASSACHUSETTS MAG A Z (ML
For September, 1790.
in imitation of Peter Pindar
people have a taste that** something ftrange^
And think it must bepleas'd at any rate,
Nature in others, they suppose may change,
Its whims iu them, on no such reas'ning* wait.
Of this plain principle, the following (lory,
For illuilraUon'a Ukc, I'll lay before ye.
111.
A Yankle and a Frenchman once at table met,
Midil roots and vegetables in chequered state,
A platter furnilh'd with fit pork appear'd,
An<l_eke a moulhous ksx whal—th&/W htari'
The Yankee took the ]u%,faiu ccrcotonie,
And having drawn the gluey corn-cob cork,
He pour'd and trail'd the 'lades o'er the pork,
And then fat down to eat.
The Frenchman ftretch'd his wond'ring eyes and rose,
Lugg'd out ins box of befl rappee,
He did not want it for his nose,
liut pepper'd well the meat.
While with farcaflii shrug, be gave this huff,
44 You love Je 'lasses far, me love de fnuff."
MORAL.
DeguJlibuSy non cji d'fputandum.
THE TABLET.
" The Jlrongefl tint, in the complexion of the hu
man ch trailer, may be ftime times forvicd by a cir
cumflauce, or evetft apparently casual
HOW much of the difference of character, we
behold in inen,isto be attributedto accident,
and how much to original cad of difpoiition, is a
queition that cannot, in any given iultance, be
accurately solved. A combination of circum
stances, merely adventitious, operate in forming
the propensities which characterize every indi
vidual. Perhaps the mind of every person is
predisposed to cherifli certain inipreflions more
readily than others, and when an accident oc
curs that coincides with the natural bent of tem
per, it heightens its itrength and permanency.
On the other hand, events purely accidental may
produce a change in our original bias, and raif'e
allocations that turn the current of our affections
from the point to which they were aiming. Itis
observed of Dean Swift that he had so irritable a
temper, as gave to the flightelt difappointmenr a
mod excruciating fling. In a letter to Lord 80.
lingbroke he exprelles himfelf in the following
terms. ' I remember when I was a boy,l felt a great
fifh at the end of my line, which 1 drew up almost
on the ground, but it dropt in, and the disap
pointment vexes me to this very day, and I be
lieve it was the type ofall my future disappoint.
uients.' Had the Dean succeeded in taking the
fi(h, and had he met with several lucky incidents
loon after, it probably had changed his propen
lity to gloom and peevifhiiefs, by exciting such
feelings of good humor and serenity as would
gradually have acquired the force of habit, and
622
A TALE,
No. CXLVI,
given qvite a different complexion to hirf charac
ter. - An elegant writer (peaking of that affair,
makes the following remarks, after mentioning
the difappointmenc relative to the fifh.
" This little incident, perhaps, gave the firft
wrong exereile to a mind, predisposed to fuel*
imprelfions ; and by operating so long and so
forcibly, might polTibly lay the foundation oft he
Dean's subsequent peeviihuefs, pailion, mii'anthro
py and final inl'anity."
The fame author mentions many instances of
the lading allociations that are produced by at.
cidental circuniftances, and which may have a
very forcible impression in directing the efforts
of the underltanding and the feelings of the
heart, differently from the course they had ta
ken, previous to such accidents. Among other
instances the following is a pertinent one. " Dr.
Conyers Middleton, one of the inoft learned,
various and elegant writers of the present age,
isfaid to have been much more addicted, in the
eaily part of life, to music, than to fcieuce. Cue
he was ronfed from his favorite auiufesneut, and
ftinaulated to the dofeft application to study, by
a farcaiin of his rival'and enemy, the celebrated
Dr. Bently who ftigtnatized him with the name
of fiddler. And indignation made bim eager to
convince the Doctor and the world, that be conld
write as well as fiddle ; a conviction, of which his
opponent had, afterwards, the molt painful ex
perience.
The death of a friend, and Other heavy afflic
tion* fometiines give a gloomy cast to the mind,
and lead it into a train of melancholy reflexions ;
which, if Hot counteracted by incidents that pro
mote chearfulneip, uiay become habitual. It is
of the highest importance that people guard them
selves against that aflociation of ideas which par.
ticular events may create. By indulging a train
of feelings that are eleited accident ally,they di
fufe themselves through the whole life and cha
racter. One man is thus rendered paffiopate and
peeviih ; another gloomy and discontented, and a
third capricious and inconltant. Had either of
them carefully watchedover theitnpreflions when
they were firft raised, they could easily have esca
ped the habits which became so durable and per*'
nicious.
Latest European Intelligence.
LOXDOX, Anguft 23.
YESTERDAY afternoon the signal for ail Captains was dis
played on board the Queen Charlotte, Lord Howe's flag (nip
which was instantly obeyed.
This morning his Lordship threw out the signal for failirg—
Preparations were immediately made by every (hip in the fleet*
Bv ten o'clock. A. M. many of them were unmoored ; an* 4 -»t
three P. M. tne whott fleet was clear of On. baj.
Never were orders obeyed with greater alacrity, or with more
universal good will; for no sooner were the direct-ons given to
man the capllcrns, than the exulting fhoutsof the sailors bespoke a
ready concurrence : and never before, perhaps had the boatswains
lets to do in the weighing of an anchor.
An officer, froin a veficl arrived in the offine, went yesterday on
board the Queen Charlotte, with intelligence that they had feeo
theSp«mifh fleet a few days before, in the bay of Biscay, and that
it confuted of upwards of thirty fail of the line, behdes frigates,
&.c. See,
We know not whether this circumflancc haftcned the motion*
which immediately followed, but it had not taken place au hour
before the lignal was made for all the captains.
Six o'clock, P. M. The whole fleet have now doubled the
start; the wind has veered considerable to the Northward, ae«i
they are now (landing down channel with a fine breeze.
Each Captain has sealed orders, and from their course, when
they pafled Bury-head, they seemed bound weftwajd. It is be
lieved their destination is to cruize between Bred and Cadiz.
Our fleet having failed fromTorbay, the conje&ures refpe&ing
their destination are various. Among other reports it has been
currently said, that admmiftraiion were apprehetibve of a iun&i
on ot the French and Spanish fleets, and ordered out our fleet to
prevent it. Some letters received in town this morning alien,
that the Spauilh fleet is already in Bred water.
The following information was brought by the
French mail of yejlcrday, and is part oj a letter from
Genoa.
•'From the day the new created Emperor of
Morocco ascended the throne, he nianifefted the
molt violent defpotifni, though it was said he as
sured all the different powers of his intention t«
keep up that harmony which his father establish
ed. Yet notwiihftanding such profeifion, this
monller, from foine mifunderftandingor falfere.
port, took umbrage at the Spaniih Consul, and to
be revenged, had him put into a large cask, and
ordered that he fliould be rolled about the streets
ofSallee in this manner untill be expired.
PARIS, Augufti.
LIBERTY OF THE PRESS.
The decree of yeilerday, relative to the prose
cution of the two defamers of the Legislative body,
had too precipitately pafled without observation
upon its generalty, asinclufiveofevcry offence of
that nature.
M. Rabaud de St. Etienne rose with much
warmth, to deprecate the evils of a decree so fatal
to all liberty of sentiment.—" Let us not, " I
"conjnreye, plungethe Nation into the perils of
" Constructive Libels :—I infill upon the irame.
"diatcreverlal of the decree, or if, notwithftand
" ingits manifold mifchiefs, it inuft subsist, the
" Aflcmbly should modi-rate the measure by the
eftablilhmentofa Trial by Jury, as the only
" modeofpreferving the people from iniquitous
"decision, and freedom from a fatal weund."Nt. Brilliavd Savarin (lacing forcibly tlietrou- I
ties at Lyons, as originating from a Libellous
Pamphlet, the Alfembty unhapjiily negKived the
excellent mocion of M. St. Eiienue, by pafiingto
the order of the day—thus demolishing at once
their ground of pre-eminence airiong the nations,
and sealing up by impending prosecutions, the
iources offreedifcuflion, and detecting invcftiga
on ; andeftablifhing in one (hort hour, what the
labours of servility upon the bench of another
country have been exerted neara century to etfecli
and have at last fatally accompliihcd.
THE FAMILY COMPACT
Extracted from the Debates of the National Atfembl?
of Francs on Monday lajl
THE President reaa a letter from M. Montmb- |
rin to the following purport :
" The King commanded me last May to lay be-
fore the Allembly the reasons which made it ne
cellary to order an equipment of I 4 fail of the line,
which measure the Allembly approved. I mult
now lay before theni the reasons which feein to
make it necellary to encreafe this armament which
is in perfedt readinefs.—lt is prudent that we
ihould have an equal force with Great Britain,
who is hastening her's with all poilible activity.
The King of Spain has claimed the execution ot
the Treaty with Great Britain, and his Aiubafla
dor here claims that of the Family Compafl. '1 he
King therefore has thought proper to bring this
demand of the Spanifli Ambafiador belore the
Aflembly for its deliberation.
" The Aflembly will have two points to deli
berate upon. ill, The augmentation ot the
jnaments neceflary to be made : and 2d. 1 he anl
wer given to the Court of Madrid."
Besides the above letters from M. Montmorin,
another from the Count Fernanda Nunez, the
Spaniih Ambaflador at Paris, to M. de Montmo
rin, was likewise read. It is dated the 7th of
June, and after mentioning the negociation go
ing 011 with England, concludes thus :
" The speedy and exa<ft execution of the 1 rea
xy > signed at Paris tjth Auguit 1 761» under the
title of the Family Compact, becomes now an in
difpenlible preliminary, in order to be able to
treat with success, and it is 011 account of the ab
solute necelfity of having recourfetothe assistance
of France, that the King, »'? Walter, orders me
to demand expressly what brand, in its
jituation, can da for the aid oj Spain ?
" According to the mutual engagements, his
Catholic Majelty desires that the armaments, and
other measures suitable to tullil thele lacred en
gagements, be immediately put 1/1 execution*
He charges ine to add, that the present state
this unexpected ati'air requires an immediate
determination ; and that the measures which
the Court ofFrance fliall take tofui nilli affiltance,
ihall befoa<ftive, so clear, and so politive, as not
to leave the fmallelt ground for suspicion or dis
trust ; otherwise, his Most Christian Majelty ought
not to be l'urprifcd if Spain Jh.ill Jack otner Friends
ttnd other Allies, amongjl all the other Powers of Eu
rope, without excepting any one, upon whom'it may
depend in time of need.
a "jjg ties of consanguinity and peifonal
friendfliip, which unite our Sovereigns, and the
reciprocal interest which exilt between the two
Nations, will be always as much attended to in
these new arrangements as circuinltances will
permit." , ,
Mr. Fitzherbert's letter to the Count de i lori
da Blanca at Madrid was then read. It exprefles
a desire of peace, explains the ground ot com
plaint 011 account of the detention of two English
ihips in Nootka Bay, and obfei ves that Great Bri
tain has made no reprisals. He demands,
lit. A reftitutionof the (hips.
2d. An indemnification of the damages sus
tained, and ... ,
Satisfaction for the injury done to the
Engliih Flag. .
The Spaniih Ambassador's answer, begins by
fhewingthe uncertainty of the injury done to
the Engliih (hips that they had been detained
in places belonging to Spain by virtue of treaties.
His Catholic Majelty had neverthelels submitted
to make good the injury lultained should it ap
pear that there has been any, and that the En
•rlifli Captains had not been the aggrellors.
9 These papers were referred to the Committee
for managing foreign affairs.
BOSTON, September 30.
Extract of a letter from St. John' s (N. B.) Se P-}*-
On Tliurfday last the Assizes and Court of Oy
er, Terminer, and General Goal delivery,pp r * hc
city and county of St. John, was opened by Mr
Tuitice Allen, and Mr. Jufhce Uphain. At he
assizes were only two a«ftions of importance, the
one was brought to recover £.500 being the pe
nalty ofan arbitration bond tor non-compliance
■withthe award, in which John Harvey was Plain
tiff, and Benedict Arnold, Esq. Defendant ; the
trial lasted 7 hours, when the Jury brought m a
verditf: for the Plaintiff with £.275 dam *S cs -"Tr
Counsel for the Plaintiff Mr. Hardy,—for the de
fendant the Attorney-Genera], and Mr, Chipman.
Theother was the much talked of cafe for Defa
mation, wherein the fame Benedict Arnold, Eft],
was Plaintiff, and Monfon Hayt, Defendant—da
mages laid at £.jooo. The try al laltsd from alit
tie after nine 011 Saturday morning, to two o'clock
011 Sunday morning, when the Jury withdrew,
and yesterday morning brought in a verdidt
for the Plaintiff with 20s. damages.—Counsel for
the Plaintiff the Attorney General and Mr.
Chipman ; for the Defendant, Mr. Hardy,
Mr. Campbell, and Mr. Ludlow.
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 9
The matter of a veflel who arrived at Phila
delphia, in 36 days from Corunna, reports, that
a terrible fire broke out in Madrid, which haa
confutned a very contiderable pare of that city.
Thfc Spanifli fleet was cruising ofFCape Finnifterre
when the Captain left Spain.
At the storming of Czettin by the Ruffians, 2000 lurks were
killed.—Spain according to accounts from that kingdom has no
idea of paying the Britifll bill of costs in equipping their fleet ;
why Ihould they ? The Britilh would laugh at such a demand on
the part of Spain ; the cafe is vice versa without doubt.
According to the convention laid to be finned between Austria
and Pruflia, the former is to abandon all its conquests from the
Turks, and to renounce its alliance with Ruilia ; hard term in
deed ! Frederic is to receive for this fuccefstul intcrpoiition
io,cooooo piafhes from the porte.
The cle&ors of Emperor for the German Empire began to af
femblc at Frankfort the 20 Julyi
The Spanifti and Englilh fleets being at fca, foinething impor
tant may be daily eicpc&cd from ihe Eaflern hemisphere ; im
portant to the parties immediately engaged—how much to to the
United States time may unfold.
The idea thrown out by Dr. Price of an alliance between
France and England, Was taken up in the national assembly—and
M.C. de Lameth suggested the propriety of add re fling the peo
ple of England through the Revolution Society ; this was objefck
cd to by leveral members as being neither judicious or patriotic —
as England is not governed by a club, but by a parliament.
The Englilh papers Hate that the French have al Breit 25 fail of
the line ready for sea.
The Frenchman who attempted to alTaflinatc Count Florida
Blauca was executed at Madrid 011 the 18 August.
The English papersgive an account of a drenchingenterprize at
Bnghthclmftone, in which Lord Bairymore and a royal Duke
fufiained the inoft conspicuous parts. A large furn of money be
ing deposited by the parties : he that could wade the furtheli into
the water with his cloaths on was to take the whole. Barrymore
beat the Duke. Such are the noble and royal pastimes of Bri
tain's riling hopes !
An indiscriminate publication, in v\mcrican papers, of Englifti
articles of news and politics, is supposed to be geneially reproba
ted ; but fact and experience prove that this is not the cafe : lor
tho the English papers contain an infinity ot conjectures, fuppoli
tions, and totally bafelcfs fabrications, and very tew fa£ts ; yet it
is apparant that the printers of those American gazettes, who dish
up the lavgeft quantity ot the heterogeneous mass, find the t ac
count ih it—There is one reflection which is cxcited on the occa-
fioti, not of the moil pleasing kind, and that is, that this taste in
dicates cither that we feel too much lntereflcd in the concerns of
that country, or that we have imbibed too ftiong a diipoiition to
be pleased with frivolity.
Very few English new fpapers are independent, and very little
that it conveyed through thr mwlium of party is pure, triie, or
honorable ; a free paper is generally undeiftood there to be, one
that is full ot abufc of the powers that be, or ot those who think
tor themlelves, ofrdf the party in whose cause it undertakes : You
may read such publications till your eyes fail, and never be a whit
the wiser j many such arc the sources from whcnccthe American
fount of European news and politics is supplied : In reipe£t to
the French revolution, what a gloomy al\>c£t is thrown upon it by
the latest Englilh accounts. While thar nation appears to be ex
ulting in the progrefsof their Conllitution *, while the people arc
as one itiah uniting and rejoicing in the benign influence o! a tree
and Iwearing in the mod solemn manner to support
their rights and privileges, we ate told that M. Fayette is their
King, General, and Supreme Legifiator, that he is the implacable
enemy of M. D'Orleans, and will briughim to the block, or con
fifcate his large pollcH'ions, that difcontcnts the empire,
that the King of Sardiuia is on the point of invading the king
dom, and that the refugees, with the Prince de Conde at their
head, has aflemblcd an army to second Ins efforts, that the permit
ting the Aultrians to marcn thro pait of France* is admitting an
enemy into then country, who will cftett a counterrevolution,
that the King's sickness is meer finefTe to facilitate an elopement
from the kingdom, and in fliorr, that the profpe£ls of the revolu
tionifls are dark, gloomy Jand dreadful ; but there is one circum-
Itance, tliat is really not cafy to be accounted for, and that is,
while many Bn:ilh charaders are nobly engaged in fighting the
cause of freedom in the low countries, as volunteers and officeis
of diilin&ion in the Bclgi# fcrvice, their countrymen, the Editors
of the British newspapers arc perpetually venting their spleen
againftthe patriots, in a series ot iour, ill-natured paragraphs ; it
is very rare that a commendatory fen:enee escapes their pens -
What advantage can Americans derive ftom such opinionated felt
fufficicnt cgotifts ? t .
An elegant writer in the Poughkecplte Journal of 2d urn. wnofe
produttions we conjecture, have before contributed to the enter
tainment of our readers, concludes foine very judicious remarks
on the French Revolution in the following words : "In the lat
-44 ter part of the 17th century, when the remains of French libtr
" ty were extinguished under the despotic monarchy of Louis 14. h,
14 the condition ol the kingdom was however vaftlv mended, and
44 its reputation carried to the higheit pitch by the aits of peace,
44 arid the atcluevcments of war ; but his intolerant lpirit banilh
-44 cd a vast l,ody of his indubious fubjed*, and his inordinate am
-44 bition enkindled wars ruinous to his own people, and dauger
" ous to the liberties of Europe. In our day they have complete
-44 ly recovered their civil and religious rights, and by a grand ai
'4 iociation have sworn to maintain them. How diftinttly the
44 comparative merit of those ages is marked between the inhu
'4 man government of Catherine and her sons, the magnificence ot
" Louis XIV, and the freedom of the National AfTembly ? It re
" mains only to be wished that their zeal may be so tempered by
" moderation, and their rcafomng so corrcded by experimental
" wiidom, as to lead them to fix a conftuution so adjuited in all
" its parts, as to stand firm and perpetual by the energy of its
44 own principles."
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Final Settlements 12/z 1 12/4.
Indent» 7/1. a 7/2.
STATE Securities 8/
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. — -NEW-YORK.
Brie M<ty, Btirnham, Liverpool, 40 dayj.
0 , Thomas, Port-du-Pi luce, aa
Schooi.er Dove, Afkin, Richmond, 4.
Deborah, , Shclburiic,
Sloop thills*, Wkuic, Norfolk,
623
T, commirtione.sorMewVo.lt »*l Vermont have n - W
adiutlcd the i„„ m bui.nels of their m,ill"" i the
Vermont isdifmem't ered from the (lite ot
New-Hamplhire grams. foca,-ed. e acknowledged lo be vabd.
Thus the way is open for the admitlion ot Vermont into the I -d
tr One" fanner on ihe IXle.n shore of Maryland ha. !oWi from the
produce of his own farm the lad crop, twelve tnoufmd bu
Wheat; and had one tlioufand bushels kit lor the ulc o. .us own
family. . , . r n
A number of gentlemen in Virginia have agreed t<> ma<c Lon
grefs a compliment ot four hundred acres of s;ood <jim i>' tje >'
cinity of Georgetown, to be laid out in lou tor the tue ot t.ie to
deral buildings. . . , *r-i
We are informed that thcCenfUs of PhiKioc ph.a < J
and that that city is iodnd to contain pi ft* T.mtE • HOtSANi "
INHABITANTS. . , ,
A Charily Sermon is to be preached m tlic old Prelbyte.ian
Church to-morrow evening, for the benefit ol the new.y ereUed
School in Nassau Street ; the principal dependence .inner provi
dence for the support of this important inllitutuu. living on the
beneficence of such a? are charitably disposed. : _
A correfpondcnt observes, that independent of the objection to
the prccarioufnefs of acaHial support tor lucl) ncccjjary and
important institutions as Seminaries of Learning, it may jutliy tie
queried, Whether the children of a Free Republic ought to depend
on charity for that education, which is absolutely reqtufiie to ren
der them good members ot focitty, and spirited alleilois ol tie
rights of man. Itmayfafely be alTerted that the pi maples ok
Republicanism are not fully understood, where a community docs
not makefuch provision for the education of ah, a» that ail may
enjoy an equal chance to acquire competent attainments, and a
right to participate of the blcflings of knowledge, which ought 10
be as fret as air. But where no other provifton is made, chanty
pleads with irrefiftable energy with the benevolent.
«' Envy will merit as its fhadt pursue."
It has been lurmited thatJome pctjon in the United States has it
in contemplation to publ.lh an American Syllfm of Geography .
This has been afligned as the caule of several illiberal attacks on
the highly ureful and well executed performance of Mr. Morfe--
a work that has met with very general approbation from a decern
ing public* as is evinced by the rapid Tale of a very large impres
sion : A second edition is contemplated j When no doubt u» ic.U
inaccuracies will be corrected : A work of this kind is peculiarly
liable to imperfettio.is ; In Brittlh publications of a (imilar kind,
we find from theJirJi to the twentieth edition, every one is pubHlh
ed with rtvifions, corrections, enlargiments and improvements.
A correfpondfcnt would suggest the propriety of two or three
month's notice being given by the Treasurer of the United States,
to the holders of Public Securities, in which time they Ihould
fend in their proposals of sale—-at a given period, purchases to a
certain amount to be made ; this Would give an equal chjncc to
the government and to the creditors in all parts of the union 4
Ext rail of a letter from Philadelphia, dated Oct. 4.
" Captain Fitzpatrick arrived here yeiterday
from Amsterdam, and had on board 80,000 dol
lars in fpecie—4o,ooo to a honfe in this ciry, the
remainder for a merchant in New-York. The
presumption is, that the whdle is to be inverted 111
the debt of the United States-'*
Every 100 dollars continental debt, with three
years intereit due thereon, will produce an in
tereit of per cent. Is it not astonishing thac
prudent and intelligent people will fell such debt
at 12/6 in the pound, when there is a moral cer
tainty of the intereit being paid regularly every
quarter year ? The debt or England bearing such
an intereit,is worth at least i4O percent. 01 twen
ty eight fliillings in the pound.
The debt of England is at least 300 million
pounds Iterling.
The debt of the United States including Hate
debts not 20 million pounds Iterling. 0
On Wednesday being the day of Commence
ment, at Princeton College, (New-Jerl'ey), the
Latin salutatory oration was delivered by Willi,
atn Johnson, of S. Carolina ; the Englifif saluta
tory by John Taylor, and the valedi&ory by
Ezekiel Pickens, both of that $tace.
Orations were also delivered by Daniel Bell of
Pennsylvania, by Armftead Churchill of Virgi-"
nia ; and by George Shafford Woodhull of Mon
mouth—the fubje&s of disputation were—fit.
SVhether formality be advantageous to any cha.
raifter—2d. Whether fenfilal pleasures, when
indulged to a criminal degree can ever
fate the pains they create—3d. Whether the pre.
sent mode of education, so remote apparently
from the ordinary business of the world, be a
proper discipline to train up young |persons for
its adtive employments—-4th. Whether profane
swearing be confident with the chara&er of a
i polite man more than a religious riian—the dis
putes were carried on by Williant A. Harvey of
Bermuda, John Ruan of Santa Cruz. William
Hanna of Alexandria, Israel Harris of Deerfield.
William Mathews of South Carolina, and by
Mefl'rs. Bell, Churchill, William Johnson and
Woodhull—The degree of Bachelor of arts was
conferred 011 the above named young gentlemen
and on three others who were neceitarily abfenc
—Thomas Young of South Carolina, John Purdie
of Virginia, and Robert John Con ofSalcm. The
degree of Matter of Arts was conferred on ten
gentlemen alumni of this College and on Mr.
Gillet of Dartmouth College.
The degree of Dotftor of Laws, was confer
red on the following gentlemen—David Hume,
Esq. Profeflor of Scotch Law, in the Univerfi.
ty of Edinburgh, nephew of the Historian of
that name ; John Robinson, A. M. Profeflor
of natural Philosophy in the University, and
general Secretary oi the Royal Society of Ediu
burgh ; the honorable James Kinfey, Esq.
Chief justice of the state of New Jersey ; and
on Monsieur Neckar and Monsieur Fay.
ette.—The rhonorable Oliver Elfworth, Docftor
of Laws of Yale College, was admitted ad <£«#-
d«7H.DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
No. XXI.— CONCLUDED,
——My foul achcs,
To know, when two authorities arc up,
Neither supreme, how soon confufton
May inter 'twi*l the gap of both, and take
Tlic one by the other. Shakzsfiai.
THE Constable, whom the court afFe&ed to
urge less, bccaufe he was in a place where
lie might be more easily compelled, had com
menced his journey with more confidence in ap
pearance, but in reality with more precaution.
He had not abetted the difcoutented but with his
counsels, which only tended to demand justice of
the States, without plotting con (piracies, or ex
citing infurredlions. A refufal to go to court
might fortify the i'ufpicions conceived against
liim: He therefore employed artifice and difli
niulatioii, to delay his arrival and regulate his pro
ceedings by the example of the Princes. Arriv
ed at Paris, he pretended to be attacked with the
gout, and returned to Chantilly to re-eftablith
his health. He again attempted to proceed, but
under the pretext that the change of air and the
motion of the carriage incommoded him,which his
advanced age rendered plauftble enough, he tra
velled by iittle day's journeys, frequently by
cross ways, at a distance from the great road,
where he made long delays, to prolong the time,
till the arrival of the Princes. His sons, iiv per
suading him to hasten his march, reprefentea to
hiin, that neither the Queen-mother nor the Guis
es would ever dare to attempt any thing againit
a man, so refpedled as he was in the kingdom.
The Conftable,inftrudled by experience, anfwer
edthem, that the ministry could govern the Hate
at its pleasure, and without opposition, though
t * l . e 7 '" eeme d to be preparing for themfetves a for
midable one, by calling the States General. That
this condudt inveloped some myfteriotis intrigue,
which heihould be able to unveil, with a little
patience. This judicious reflection abated the
ardor of the young Lords, and the Constable con
tinued to temporize.
Nevertheless the King of Navarre and the
Prince of Conde hail been received on the fron
tiers by the Marshal deThermes, who, under the
pretext of paying them the honors due to their
rank, followed iheni with a large body of Caval
ry, to make sure of the cities become fulpedled
by the deposition of La Sague. At the fame time;
he ordered poH'efTion to be taken by other troops,
both of Cavalry and Infantry, of all the reads,
ivhic'i the Princes lefc behind them,left, a change
of their resolution Ihould determine thein to re
turn. As i'ooii as it was known at court, that
the Princes had entered the kingdom, and were
so well observed by De Tlierines, they arretted,
all on a sudden Jerome Giollot, Bailif of Orleans,
accused of intelligence with the Hugonots, to
cause a revolt of that city in favor of the discon
tented Princes ; and by order of the King, they
sent to prison the Vidaine of Chartres, who had
been imprudent enough to remain in the Capital.
They had not the fame success in attempting to
seize Dandelot. As prudent and subtle in pro
viding against dangers, as ardent and daring in
forming deligns, he retired suddenly to thecoafts
of Brittany, resolved to embark for England in
cafe of neceflity.- The Admiral, whose add rets
and dissimulation, according to Davila, had hi
therto conduced everything,without discovering
or expofmg liimlelf, was among isthe firft in the
States General, with design there to labor in fa
vor of his party. The King and the Qneen had
received him as usual, with benevolence. He
employed himfelf in following with his eye, all
the measures of the court, in order to give in
formation of them, secretly, and with extreme
precautions, to tlie Constable and the King of
Navarre,
All thrfs delays were exhausted, when the
Princes of the blood arrived at Orleans, the 29th
OiSober, without any person's going out to re
ceive them, except aftiiall number of their nioft
intimate friends. They found not only the gates
of the city guarded, but bodies of guards placed
and batteries erec'ted in the ftrongell potts, in the
cross ftreetsand public places : precautions which
tjie court had not ufiially taken in times of war.
They pafled through the midst of this formidable
apparatus, and came to the King's Lodge, where
they kept a more exadl guard, than at the head
quarters of an army. Arrived at the gate, they
would have entered on liorfe-back, according to
the right attached to their rank : but they found
only a wicket gate open, and were obliged to
alight 111 the open ttreet, and few persons appear
ed to t eceive or salute them. They were con
duifted to the King, whom they found fitting be
tween the Duke of Guise and the Cardinal of
Lot-rain,furrounded by the Captains of his guards.
He received the King of Navarre and the Prince
of Conch, with a coldness very different from
t.iat a..ability whicli the Kings of France are ac
cultomed to practice to all their fubjecfts but
above all to the Princes of their blood.' He con
ducted them soon to the Queen-mother, where
the Guises did not follow them. Catharine of
Medicis, who wiihed always to appear neuter and
disinterested, received them with ordinary de
monstrations of friendlhip, bat with an aft'sdled
sorrow, and artificial tears. The King continued
to treat tliem with the fame coldnels,and addred
ing hinifelf to the Prince of Cnnde, lie began to
reproach him, that without having received from
his Majesty, cither displeasure or ill treatment,
he had in contempt of all laws,divine and human,
excited several times his fubjed:s, inkindled a
war in different parts of his kingdom, attempted
to seize on his principal cities, and conspired
against his life and that of his brothers. The
Prince, without emotion, answered with firmnefs,
that these accuf.itions were so many calumnies
forged by his enemies. We mult proceed then,
replied the King, by the ordinary ways of justice,
to discover the truth. He went out ofthe apart
ment of the Queen, and commanded the Captains
of his guards to arrest the Prince ofConde. The
Queen-mother, forced to consent to this measure,
but who had not forgotton that things might
change, from one moment to another, exerted
herfelf to console the King of Navarre. The
Prince complained of none but the Cardinal of
Bourbon his brother,who had deceived him ; and
fufFered himfelf to be condtiified to a neighbour
ing house, deltined for hjs prison. They had
walled up the windows, doubled the doors, and
made it a kind of fortrefs defended by several
pieces of artillery and a strong guard. The
King of Navarre, astonished at the detention of
his brother, breathed out his grief in complaints
and reproaches to the Queen, who, calling all the
blame on the Duke ofGUife, as Lieutenant-Gene
ral of the Kingdom, endeavored only to excul
pate herfelf. To the King of Navarre,they gave
for a lodging, an house, at a little distance from
that which the King occupied, and guards to ob
serve his motions ; so that, excepting the liberty
of feeing whom he pleased, he was in all other
refpedls treated and confined like a prisoner. At
the fame they arretted Bouchart his secretary,
with all his letters and papers ; and Madeleine
de Roye, mother in law of the Prince, with all
her letters and papers, at her feat at Anifi. Al
though they held the gates of Orleans shut, and
fufFered no person to go out, the news of these
tranfadlions were anuounced to the Constable,
who was still but a few leagues from Paris. He
suspended his journey, resolved to pass no fur
ther, but to wait andobferve the consequences of
these events.
I hus the mystery fufpe<fted by the Constable
was unriddled. The States General were funi
moned only as a net is laid, artfully to befprung
upon game. This game were the Conltable and
Princes, and their principal friends. They were
a mere stalking-horse, behind which to lhoot a
wood-cock ; and that wood-cock was the Prince
of Conde. Although of the two authorities which
were up, the Court and the States, neither was
supreme ; yet the one we fee might be taken by
the other. We Uiallfoon fee that confufion en
tered by the gap.
Treasury Department, Sept. 20, 1790.
T T ' s hereby made known, that the following arrangement has
A been adopted towards carrying into execution the A£t, mak
mg provision tor the debt of the United State.*, viz.
Loan-Office Certificates, andthofeiirued by the Commission
ers for the adjustment of aceounts in the fcveral States, will be re
ceivable only at the Treasury and by the refpecHve Commiflioners
ol Loans within the States in which they were refpfSivcly iflued.
The Certificate* issued by the Rcgifter of theTreafury, by the Pay
Master General and Commiflioner of Army Accounts, by the
Commiflioners for the adjustment of the Accounts of the Quarter
Mafter't, Commiflary's, Hospital, Cloatlvng, and Marine Depart
partments, Indents of Interest, and Bills of Old Kmiflion, will
be receivable indifctiminarely at the Treasury and by the Com.
miflioners of ail the States. The fuuationofthe Checks has dicta
ted this arrangement for the greater security ot the public against
lmpofitions by forged or counterfeit paper, and the details which
have been adopted from the fame confederation for the execution
ot the business are such, that it will give facility and dispatch, if
applications Irom the Holders of Certificates ol the Register of
the Ti eafury and of the Paymaster General, and CommilTioner of
Army Accounts, and of the Commiflioners of the five Depart
ments above mentioned, are made in the firft instance at the Trea
sury ; and if applications from the Holders of Loan Office Certi
ficate s, and Certificates ifTucd by the Commilfioners for the adjust
ment of Accounts in the refpeftive States, are made in like man
ner to the Commiflioners of Loans within the States in which they
were ifTued. Transfers can afterwards be made to any Office that
the Proprietors of these Certificates may desire.
fp3~ The printers of the f vera! States are requ'fled to insert this.
ADVERTISEMENT.
PURSUANT to a Resolve or ast of Congress of the 10th dav
■L of May, 1780, relative to the deftruftion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 2d day of January 1780, the house occupied
by the fublcriber in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took fire and
was con (limed, in which was lodged a number of Loan-Office
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the said
hre : Therefore if any person, hath any objection why the said
Certificates should not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves of
Congress, they mufl make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoice of Loan-Office Certificates dtjlroyed in the house of John Hotter
on the 2dday of January 1780.
J778.
March 13,
No.
1636 1 <
1673 1
Dols.
Samuel Cooke, jun. New-York, 600
ditto - do. 600
In tcftimony whereof I have figncd the prelent for pub
" OLK ' B -
624
Dollars, 1200.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sept. 2 S, I?9 o.-
\T° / J' CE f » g lvrn > , '? at proposals will be received anl*
Office otthc Secretary of -the Treasury, nnt.l the ~ft d,v
ot Decern uer next mclutive, tor the building of a LIGHT HODSf
nearly of the dimensions proposed by ,h= late ;
Virginia and Maryland,'upon the lot of land on Cape Hen £h.
the County of Princrfs Ann, and State of Vmrinu. J J'r
that purpose to the Unit d States. It , s deli cd .'hlt .hl " r",'
may leave theeledion, whether the buildin* above Lhe f ™P°f
mail be of brick or ffone, and a s the cost a„3 Ar
terial, vary, .t , 5 expected, that acorrefpondmg dilWnce wMI £
made in the terms offered.
, yhc fnund.tion of the Light-Houfc , s to be of stone, and Kink
to the depth of thirteen feet below .ho water table, ovtrthe ton »f
whic, the pavement is to be laid. The diameter thereof i, £
twenty leven feet fix inches, with . vacancy of about nine feetm
the centre. m
The diameter ofthe base isto be twenty fix feet whirl, -t ..
the ihicknels of the walls is to be fix feet. The. height from the
bottom of the water table to the top of the stone work i " 0 ht
seventy two feet,where the diameter i s to be fix feet fix inche, ami
the thickness of the wall, three seer. The form is to be an o£h'/o n «
having three window, ,n the east, and four in the weft, if £
built of brick, it is to be faced with the glassy kind, if of fW *
it to be faced with hewn or hammer-drefTed stone. '
On the top ofthe stone work i< to be a floor of joists, bedded
therein, planked over and covered with copper, extending abo^
two feet eight inche.bcyond the wall, thereby forming an evr
rh ? W,th a L conlice > whole having a descent
from the centre fufficient to throw oft" the water
'° be r ?PP° ,ted by "ght post's or wrought Iron
of three inches fqujre and twenty feet in length, ten feet of wh'ch
.re to be wrought into the stone wall „„ the inner part at each
corner The diameter of it t, to be ten feet, leaving a platform on
Ihe ouf.de thereof of about si* feet in width. All the work above
I, ,'V° be of i ron and f°PP«; TV lanthotn i. to be ten feet
high, having a femiorcular roof of five feet more, with iron raft
ers covered with copper. The whole space between the polls fun.
porting the lanthorn, u Co be occupied by the sashes, which are
to be made of iron, ea h sash is to have twenty-eight panes of
glaft, twelve by fourteen inches. One ofthe sashes on the feu i
weft fide IS to be hung with hinges for a door to go out upon t, lO
platform, from the outer part of which to the roof of the lanthorn
IS to be a frame ofiron covered with a net work of ftrone bract
wire, to preserve the glals from injuries by hail and flights of
birds in the night. 6 ™
The rafters of the lanthorn are to be well fattened to an iron
hoop, over which is » copper funnel, through which the smoke
may pass into a large copper ventilator in the form of a man's
head, capable of containing one hundred gallons. This head is to
be so placed at to be turned by a large vane on the spire above it,
that the hole for venting the smoke may always be to the leeward,
tight dormant venttlators of fix inches diameter are to be fixed
in the roof of the lanthorn.
A clofc stove is to be provided and fixed in the lanthorn, which
is to he furnilncd with eight lamps, each capable of containing fix
quarts, hung in two tiers orer each other transversely. There a c
11 be fix flights ot ftaivs to ascend to the lanthorn, the entrance to
which is to be oy a door covered with copper. The building i*
to be furnilhcd with two condu&ors, to lecure it from the eficfts
ot lightning.
A frame house is to be built for the keeper, twenty feet square
two stones high, with a frame kitchen ; the whole to be fimfhed
with lath and plaiftcr.
A vault for the storage and fafe keeping of the oil is to be built
of I tone at a convenient dtftaorc, twelve feet wide, and twenty in
length. It is to be arched, and covered wit'' earth or sand, over
w nch a shed is to be built, and it is to be furnifhed with eight
itron-cedar cisterns with covers, each capable of containing two
hundred gallons of oil. The entrance isto be fccured by a ftron£
door. 7 i *
Good fecurlty tar thc/juhful performance of <Hc cunt raft - will
be expe&ed. Payments on account will be made at proper sta
ges of the work, and the balance will be paid on its completion :
or, if a fuitnble difference should be made in the terms, cash will
be advanced for the purchafc of materials and provisions.
C-? The Printers in the several States are reqaejied to infer! this. -
WAR DEPARTMENT, Sept. 9, 1790.
INFORMATION is hereby to all the military InvafidsoP
the United Stales, that the funis to which the* are annually en
titled, and which will become due on the fourth day of Marcbi
ensuing, will be paid on the said day, by the Commiflioners of
the Loans within the ftatrs refpeftively, under such regulations
as the President of the United States may direst.
H. KN'OX,
Secretary fur the Department of War.
(The Printers in the refpeHive States are requeued to publijk tat
above in their newfpapers,for the fpttce of two Months.j
TO BE LET,
On very low terms—ani entered upon immediately, until the JrJl r>f
May next.
THAT elegant new TWO STORY BRICK HOUSE, in the
Bowery-Lane, formerly occupied by Robert Gilbert
Livingston, deceased ; it has seven Fireplaces with a goort
Cellar under the whole House—a convenient out-Houfe in the
rear, with a Coach-House, and Stables ; for further particulars en-
MANGLE MINTHORN
quire of
(2 w. t. f.)
Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA,
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten minutes aftei;
Eight o'clock every morning cxcept Sunday.
Stage Office, City Tavern, )
Htead-Way, New-York June 5, 1790. \
The
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Proposals for printing this paper stipulated, that it flioulcl
"be publi/hcd at the feat of the federal government —Pursuant to
this engagement, tc The Gazette or the United States"
will, from the beginning of November next, be publifned at
Philadelphja
The Subscribers, who may please to continue their patronage o£
the Publication, will befupplicd from Philadelphia as soon as pol
fible after it is out of the press, on the present terms.
|CT" To be let,from l/l November, THE HOUSE
in which the Editor now lives :—A good situation for
a Boarding-House—being formerly occupied in that
business.
SCJ" Dr. Price's Revolution Sermon may be had of
ths Editor. Price 1/7.
Corporation Dock