/
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. so, cf Vol. ll.]
COLLECTION LAW. Concluded.
A
XlND_the better to secure the collettion of the said duties,
Be tt further enaßed t That the President of the United States be
empowered to cause 10 be built and equipped, so many boats or
cutters, nqf exceeding ten, as may be neceffdry to be employed
for the protection of the revenue, the expense whereof (hall not
exceed ten thousand dollars, which lhall be paid out ot the pro
duct of the duties on goods, wares and merchandize, imported
into the United States, and on the tonnage of fhipsor vcffcls.
And be it further enaded, That there shall be to each of the said
boats or cuttcrs, one matter, and not more than, three mates, fir ft.
second, and third, four manners and two boys; and that the
compen ations and allowances to the said officers, mariners and
°J S r lta t0 lc ma^cr thirty dollars per month,
iubfittence of a captain in the army of the United States ;
to a hrit mate twenty dollars per month, to a second mate sixteen
0 ars per month, to a third mate fourteen dollars per month,
and to every mate the fubfcftence of a lieutenant in the said army ;
to each manner eight dollars per month, to each boy four dollars
per month ; and to each mariner and boy the fame ration of pro
visions which is or (hall be allowed to a soldier in the said army.
1 he said allowances for subsistence to be paid in provifrms or
inoney at the contra# prices, at the option of the Secretary of
the Trealury. V 7
And he itfurther enafled % Thpt the officers of the said boats or
cutters, lhall be appointed by the President of the United States,
and shall refpeflively be deemed officers of the cufloms, and
lhall have power and authority to go on board of every (hip or
veflfel which (hall arrive within the United States, or within four
leagues of the coast thereof, if bound for the United States, and to
leaich and examine the fame and evety part thereof, and to de
mand, receive and certify the manifctts herein before required to
be on board of certain (hips or veffcls, and to affix and put proper
r*n"' n^ S ° n alc^rs other communications with the holds
of (hips or vessels, and to remain on board the laid fliips or ves
sels until they arrive at the places of their dettination.
And be it further entfltd) That the collcdiors of the refpe&ive
dittritts may, with the approbation of the Secretary of the Trea
sury, provide and employ iuch small open row and fail boats, in
eich diiln&, together with the i number of perfous to
Jerve in them, as shall be ncceflary lor the use of the surveyors
and infpc&ors in going on board of (hips and vessels and other
wise, for the better deletion of frauis ; the expense of which (hall
be defrayed out of the product of duties.
And be it further enafled, That if any officer of the customs shall
dire&ly or mdire&ly take or receive any bribe, reward or recom
pense for conniving, or lhall connive at any falie entry of any (hip
or veflel, or of any goods, war s or merchandize, and (lull be
thereoi convi&cd, every such officer (hall forfeit and pay a fuin not
iefsthan two hundred, nor more than two thousand dollars for
rich offence; and any person giving or offering any bribe, rccom
penf»* or f Qr »ny deception, collusion or fraud, Ihjll
forfeit and pay a sum not lefl than two hundred, nor more than
two thousand dollars for each offence. And in all cases where
©n oath is by this ail required from a matter or other person hav
ing command of a (hip or vessel, or from an owner or consignee
of goods, wares and merchandize, his or her faClor or agent, if
the person so swearing (hall swear lalfly, such person (hall, on in
diclrncnt and conviCliou thereof, be punished by fine or impri
sonment, or both, in the discretion of the court before whom the
conviction (hall be had, so as the fine lhall not exceed one thou
sand dollars, and the term of unprifonmcnt (hall not exceed
4welve months.
-And be it further That all penalties accruing by any
breach of this ast, (hall be (aed for and recovered with tolls of
iuit, inthenamcof the United States of America, in any court
propvi to try the fame, and the trial of any fact which may be put
in iflue, (hall be within the judicial diflrift in which any such pe
nalty (hall have accrued, and the collector, within whose diftrift
the Icizure (hall be made, is hereby authorized and directed to
caufc luits for the fame to be commenced and profeculed to effect,
and to receive, distribute and pay the futn or iums recovered, af
ter firft deducting all necellary cods and charges, according to law.
And that a!! (hips or vcflels, goods, wares or merchandize, which
lhall become forfeited by vntue of this ast, (hall be seized, libel-
Jed and prosecuted as atorelaid, in the proper court having cog
nizance th<T7*of; which court (hall cause fourteen days notice to be
given of such fej.'-ure and libel, by causing the fut>(lanee of such
libel, with the ordV* of the court thereon, setting forth the time
and place appointed sos to be inserted in some newspaper,
poblifhed near the place of* and also by polling up the
fame in the mod public manner for tHe space ot fourteen days, at
«r near the place of trial, for which a turn not ex
ceeding ten dollars (hall be paid ; and proc}** oßl ' oo (hall be made
in such manner as the court lhall direst ; and no pcrfon lhall
appear to claim such (hip or velTel, goods, wares or merchandize,
the fame (hall be adjudged to be forfeited ; but if a fry person lhall
appear before such judgment of forfeituie, and claim any such (hip
or veflel, goods, wares or merchandize, and lhall give bond to de
fend the piofecution thereof, and to respond the cod in cafe he
shall not support his claim, the court lhall proceed to hear and
determine the cause according to law : And upon the prayer of
any claimant to the court, that any lh-.p or vefTel, goods, wares or
rnr nandize so seized and prosecuted, or any part thereof (hould
be delivered to such claimant, it (hall be lawful for the court to
appoint three proper persons to appraifc such (hip or veflel, goods,
wares or merchandize, who lhall be sworn in open court tor the
faithful discharge of their duty ; and such appraifoment (hall be
made at the expense of the party on whose piayer it is granted ;
and on the return of such appraifemenr, if theclaimaut (hall, with
one or more sureties, to be approved of by the court, execute
a bond in the usual form, to the United States, for the payment
of a sum, equal to the sum at which the (hip or veflel, good , wares
or merchandize, so prayed to be delivered, be appraised, the
court (hall by rule, order such Ihip or vessel, goods, wares or
merchandize, to be delivered to the said claimant, and the said
bond lhall be lodged with the proper officer of the court ; and if
judgment (hall pass in favor of the claimant, the court (hall caufc
the said bond to be cancelled ; but if judg-ment (hall pass against
the claimant, as to the whole or any part of such (hip or veflel,
goods, wares or merchandize, and the claima/it lhall not within
twenty days thereafter, pay into the court the amount of the ap
praised value of such (hip or veflel, goods, wares or merchandize
so condemned, with the cods, the bond (hall be put in (uit. And
•when any prosecution (hall be commenced on account of the fei
»ure ot any (hip or veflel, goods, wares or merchandize, and
judgmeut (hall be given for the claimant or claimants ; if it (hall
appear to the coy#t before whom such prosecution QuU be tried,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER
that there was a reafoaable cause of seizure, theHame court (hall
cause a proper certificate or entry to be tvatie th reof, and in fuel)
cafe the claimant (ball not .it e entitled to ao : e>, nor fh jll the perfoii
who made the seizure, or the profecuto/sfc ; liable to action, fun
or judgment, on account of such seizure (jflmrofecution. Provided,
That the (hip or vessel, goods, wares <AJmerchandize, be after
judgment, forthwith returned to such or claimants, his,
her or their agents : *And provided, Thakrio action or profccution
ill jll be maintained in any cafe under %ff\i ast, unless the fame
(hall have been commenced, within thrtfc years next after the
penalty of forfeiture was. incurred.
And be itfyr.'U^ja/^T\^t 9 \\ f! r?sl*efl"els, goods, wares or I
merchandize, which c?..denized by virtue of this ast,
(hallbe fold by the proper officer of thecoutt in which such con
demnation (hall be had, to the htgheft bidder at public action, by
order of such court, and at such place the court may appoint,
giving at least fifteendays notice (except Jncafeof perishable goods)
in ouc or more oi the jpUblic newfpapelk of the place where such |
la le (hall be, or if qo'paoftrr is publ i (hefi: u such place, in one or
more of the papers pa>li(hed areft place thereto, for
which advertising a sum not exceeding 6' : dollais (hall be paid.
And be it further enafled, 1 hat all pen? • ies, fines and forfeitures,
recovered by virtue ol tiiis ast (and not otherwise appropriated)
lhall, after deducting all proper colls aud charges, be disposed of
as follows : Ooe moiety lhall be lor the use ot the United States,
and paid into the trcafury thereof ; 1 the other moiety (hall be di
vided into iqual parts, and paid to the collector and naval officer
of the diftiift, and surveyor of the port wherein the fame lhall hive
been incurred, or to such of the fuid officers as there may be in ,
the (aid diftrift ; and in diftrifta one of the aforefaid
officers (hall have been eftablilhed, thefaid moiety (hall be given
to such officer : Provided That in all cases where such
penalties, fines and forfeitures, dial 1 be recovered in pursuance of
information given to such collector, by any person other than the
naval-officer or surveyor ofthe diftrift, the one half of such moieiy
(hall be given to the informer, and the remainder thereof (hall be
disposed of between the collector, naval-officer and surveyor or
surveyors, in manner aforefaid.
And be tt further enaded, That no goods, wares or merchandize
of foreign growth or manufacture, fubjeft to the payment of du
ties, (hall be brought into the Uuited States from any foreign port
or place in any other manner than by sea, or in any (hip or veff l
of left than thirty tons burthen, except within the diftrift of Louis
ville, nor (hall be landed or unladen at any other place than is by
this ast direfled, under the penalty of seizure and forfeiture of
all such veflels, and of the goods, wares or merchandize brought
in, landed or unladen, in any other manner. And all goods, wares
and merchandize brought into the United S:aies by land, contra
ry to this ast, lhall be forfeited, together with the carriages, hor
ses and oxen that (hall be employed ij. conveying the fame ; pro
vided nothing herein lhall be cooftrutd to extend to household
furniture and cloathing, belonging to any person or persons aftu
aliy removing into any part of ttjr States,for the purpose of
becoming an inhabitant or inhabitants thereof.
And be it further enafled, That all matieis by this ast dircfted to
be done to or by the collector of a diftiift, (hall and may be done
to and by the person who in the cases fpecified in this ast is or
may be authorized to ast in the place or stead of the said collector.
And be itfurther That wherever an oath is required by
this ast, persons conscientiously scrupulous (hall he permitted to
affirm.
And be it further enafled. That the master or person having the
charge or command of a ship or vessel bound to a foreign port or
place, (hall deliver to the colUftor of the diftrift from which such
(hip or vessel (hall be about to depa> t, a manifeft of the cargo on
board the fame, and (hall make oath or affirmation to the truth
thereof, whereupon the said collector (hall grant a clearance for
the said flup or vessel, and her cargo, but without fpecifying the
particulars thereof, unless required by the said master or person
having said charge or command. And if any (hip or vessel bound
to a foreign port or place, (hall depart ou her voyage to such fo
reign port or place without such clearance, the said master or per
son having the said charge or command, (hall forfeit and pay the
sum of two hundred dollars for such offence.
And be it further enafled, That after the firft day of October next
the ast, intituled, li An ast to regulate the collefton of the duties
imposed t»y law on the tonnage of (hips or veflels, and on goods,
wares and merchandizes imported into the United States," and
also all other acts or parts of acts coming within the purview of
this ast, thall be repealed, and thenceforth ceale to operate, ex
cept as to the continuance of the officers appointed in pursuance
of the said ast ; except aKo as to the recovery and receipt of such
duties on goods, waies and merchandize, and on the tonnage of
Ihips or velfels, as ihall have accrued, and a« to the payment of
drawbacks and allowances in lieu thereof, upon the exportation
of goods, wares or meichanoize which (hall have been impored,
and as to the recovery and distribution of fines, penalties and for
feitures which (hall have been incurred before or upon the said
day, fubjeft nevertheless to the alterations contained and expressed
in this present act.
And whereas by the ast, intituled, " An ast to regulate the col-
Icftion of the duties imposed by law on the tonnage of (hips or
veflels, and on goods, wares and merchandizes imported in:o the
United States," it was declared that the ruble of Ruflia (hould bo
rated at one hundr d cents, and by the ast, intituled, " An ast to
explain and amend an ast, intitled, 4t An ast for registering and
clearing vessels, regulating the coasting trade, and for other pur
poses," that part of the said firft mentioned ast which so rated
the ruble of Ruflia was repealed and made null and void, And
wheicas it is doubted whether the said repeal can operate with
refpeft to duties incurred prior thereto, as was intended by Con
gress.
That fore be it enafled, and declared, That the said repeal (hall be
deemed to operate in refpeft to all duties which may have arisen
or ac«. "ucd pi ior thereto.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG
Speaker of the House of Reprefeyitatives
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States
and Prejident of the Senate
Approved, August the fourth, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident oj the United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary oj State
BON MOT.
AN Abbe reproachedthe National Aff-rably of France for de
llioying the Clergy, under the pretext of reforming abuses,
while yet they fuffered the existence of houses of ill fame. " It
ts impolTible," replied a lay orator, " to think of reforming the
brothels, until you have married the Clergy,"
613
2, 1790.
THE TABLE f
No. CXLV.
" Every objett ajfumes an importance, in our rfli
motion, proportioned, in fame degree, to the tabor a/ij
attention we bestow ttpon it."
NO employment is thought useless ; no
tuation uninterelting, in the view of him
who occupies it. Quixotifin, in some fiiape or
other, infufes itfelf into the conJuc'i of every hu
man being, and bellows an exaggerated value on
his character and attainments. How common is
it for men, when they are speaking of a proief
fion, in which they themselves atfl, toconlerfucli
encomiums on its utility and importance, as would
make an ignorant by-slander imagine, nothing
else could be compared to it, so excellent and ule
ful ! But how mult his admiration cease, and li:s
opinions change, when lie hears twenty perlons
in a day, heaping the fame extravagance of ay>-
plaufe, on the modes of life they refpecftively
pursue ! The fame fpeciei of delulion leizes the
imagination when we are eflimating the value of
any favorite principle or tenet, as prevails when
we are valuing our occupation or profeffion. —
Those who acquire some degree of polemic skill,
and cherish any fondnefs for it, either about re
ligion or polities, are apt to'feletft some particular
point, and pursue it so far, and so long, as real
ly to believe every thinggreat or excellent is con
centered in it, and that it is merely a waste or
time to think or speak upon any other subject.
An elegant writer in an eflay on difput at ion makes
the following sprightly remarks :—" Polemic
skill is a dangerous qualification ; and if not go
verned by charity, wisdom and integrity, may be
tray the poflefl'or, either into intemperate z.eal,
or absolute indifference for truth. The fame
enthusiasm that dignifies a butterfly or medal to
the virtuoso and the antiquary, may convert con
troverfyinto quixotifni, and present to the delu
ded imagination of a theological or political
knight-errant, a barber's bason, as Mumbreuo's
helmet."
Perhaps there is no defer!ption of men, who
understand or love the truth so little, as thofo
who are impelled by the rage of controversy. 1c
too often happens that we embrace a system or a
principle before we have examined the proofs or
reafcyis on which it rests. By this means, an at
tachmeut is fixed to the theory itfelf, independent
of the truth which ought to support it. We thus
become regardless of right and wrong, as they
are applicable to dodtrinegor sentiments ; and it
is not difficult to perceive that we insensibly ac
quire the fame indifference forthofe diflincftions,
in our language and conduit. Such a disregard
to the moral nature of obje&s often grows upon
an heart which originally gave no indications of
extraordinary perverfenefs. It has been the ef
feA of an inordinate love of disputation, and a
pride ofconqaeft over others in argument, con
tracted by inadvertently falling iuto habits of
difcuflion, for the fake of defending ingenious
theories, or discovering a dexterity in mental re
sources.
One cannot too much control a desire for con
troversy, for ifit be left to itfelf unchecked by
reason and propriety, it will become a vicious
and irregular propensity. Every person, in his
invefligations, should be solicitous to attain the
truth, and should never facrifice it to theory.—
For however much we may have labored to de
fend an hypothesis, and however important it
may feeni 111 our eyes, it mud sooner or later be
tried by fair and impartial judges, who will ex
amine it not by our prejudices and prepofleflions ;
but by that standard which will exist, when the
current whims and follies of the day may be for
gotten.
PATRIOTISM. AN EXTRACT.
TNSTEAD of inculcating the principle ofpar-
A tial patriotism, it were to be wi(hed thephi
lofophers of this late age would reason upon a
larger scale. Would not that education have a
much better efftii upon the minds of the millions
of men, which inform us that the whole world is
but one country, and all mankind but one fami
ly,the offspring of one universal parent ; that the
iuterefts ot all are, in fadl, the fame ; that hap
pinefi can only be found in a mutual good under
standing with each other, and that the human f'pe
cies can have no rght to hold them selves np as
the rational viliblei ruling intelligences on this earth
till they divert themselves of all felfifl.i opinions.
[Whole No. i 54-3c
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
My foul aches,
To know, w:un two authorities arc up,
Neither supreme, how foou coutufion
May cuter 'iwixt the gap of both, and take
The one by the othct. Shakespzar.
WHtN the King is of age, and allilts at the
States General, the deputies had the pow
er to consent to his demands ; to propose what
they judge neceflary tof the good ot the differ
ent orders of the Hate ; to make their fubmiflions
in the name of the people to new impolts ; to
establish ana accept of new laws, and new regu
lations ; but when the minority of the Prince,
or fjme other incapacity hinders him to govern
by himfelf, the states have a right in cafe of con
testation, to eledt the regent of the kingdom, to
nominate to the principal offices, to forma coun
cil, and, if the mafciiline pollerity have failed in
the royal family, they may eleift a new Monarch,
following however, the dispositions of thefalique
law. Excepting these cases of necefiity, the
Kings were accuitonved to allemble the States Ge
neral, in urgent conjunctures, and to determine,
according to their advice, in affairs of molt im
portance. " In effect ?" fays Davila, " what
energy may not the resolutions ot the Prince de
rive, from the concurrence of his fubjeifts ! What
can be more conformable to the true spirit ot
monarchical government, than this harmony be
tween the sovereign and the people ?" In truth,
Davila, tho thou art a profound Historian, thou
art but a fupcrticial Legislator. Hiitory answers
the queltion, that no energy at all, nor any thing
but divilion, diftradtion anil extravagance were
derived to the resolutions of the Prince, till the
Itates were laid aside. In the language of my
motto, two authorities were up, neither supreme,
and confufion entered 'twixt the gap. Nothing
can be more direiitiy repugnant to monarchical
government than such aflemblies, because they
set up rivals to the King, and excite doubts and
tjueftions, in whom the sovereignty resides. If a
negative is given by them,to the will of the Prince,
they become a part ofthe sovereignty, annihilate
the Monarchy and convert it into a Republic.
If they are mere councils of advice, they become
scenes of cabal, for aspiring grandees to force
themselves into the niinittry.—Never indeed was
it more neceflary to new model the government,
and regeHerate the nation, than in the present
conjuncture, when the rivalries of the grandees,
and the differences in religion, dilturbed the
•whole kingdom, and demanded the prompted re
medies.
Upon the reiterated orders of the court, the
deputies of the Provinces, had resorted to Or
leans, from the beginning of October 1560, and
the Kin£ having arrived in person, accompanied
by the molt of the Lords and great officers of the
crown, they waited only for the discontented
Lords and Princes, to open the Aflembly. The
Conltable and his sons, were, as usual, at Chan
tilly. The King of Navarre and the Prince of
Conde, were fti'l at Beam. The King had writ
ten to them all, to invite them to the States ; and
akho they had not explicitly refufed, they in
vented pretexts upon pretexts, to excuse them
selves, and gain time. These affected delays dif
trefled the King and the ministry. They appre
hended, with reafbn.that the refufal of the Princes
of the blood, arising from their own suspicions,
or upon foine,certain information of what was in
tended against them, would defeat all the pro
jects and preparations, founded only on the hope
that they would affilt at the States General. The
Prince of Conde, could not be in doubt that they
had drawn, either from theprifonersof Amboife,
or from La Sagne, or from the conspirators ai rest
ed at Lyons, evidence fufficient to dil'cover his
deligns. No motive, therefore, could determine
liiin to place himfelf a second time, at the dilcre
tion of a court where his enemies were all pow
erful. The King of Navarre thought differently.
Less culpable, or more credulous than his bro
ther, lie believed, that by going to the States,
they ffiould obtain, without difficulty, that re
form in the government, which had already cost
them so much labor ; whereas, by refuting to be
present, they would betray their own interests,
and leave the field open to the ambition and vio
lence of the Princes of Lorrain. He could not
believe, that under the eyes of the whole nation
afiembled, a King scarcely out of his infancy, an
Italian Princess, and two Itrangers, would dare
to imbrue their hands in the blood of the Princes
of the royal house, which the Monarchs the molt
absolute anil the molt vindictive, had ever re
garded as sacred. All these motives determined
him to venture to the States, with the Prince, to
whom he represented, that they would infallibly
condemn him unheard, if he continued obstinate
ly to ablent himfelf from court : whereas, by ap
pearing there, and gaining to his interests the
deputies in the Stares, there was every reason to
liop^,"that if, on judging him with rigor, they
ffiould blame his proceedings, the equity of his
pretentions, would afford him a favourable co
lour, and ill the la(t extremity, his birth would
obtain him a pardon. All the confidants and
No. XXI,
partizans of tlie Princes, supported tins ail vice,
except the wife and mother-in-law or the i mice
of Conde, who constantly rejected ic, and judged
that hialife was aimed at, and that of all the
courses he coulil take,that which was recommend
ed to him was the most dangerous.
(To he continued. )
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 2
Latest European Intelligence.
PAPERS by the Packet mention a recent en
gagement on the 9th and 10th of July be
tween the Ruffian and Swediffi fleets, which was
maintained with much firmnefs and obstinacy on
both fides—The action commenced about half
pall 9in the morning of the 9th, and continued
without intermission till midnight—at two the
next morning the Swedes renewed the attack,and
continued the engagement till nine ; by which
time the Ruffians were entirely defeated. The
Swedes loft two gunboats, blown up, and a large
vellel funk by abonjtb, the crewfaved.
The King commanded in person, and took,run
afliore or destroyed, forty-two Ruffian frigates
and gallies.
Most of the gallies had guns from 12 to 30
pounders, and the greatest part carrying 30 each,
of different calibres One hundred and ten offi
cers, and 2000 men, are made prisoners ; amongst
which are the Ruffian Brigadier Denifow, and
the Prince of Nadhu's flag captain. Trophies,
&c. are bringing in every moment.
" Yesterday about half part one o'clock the
following letter was received by the Lord Mayor,
and immediately sent by his Lordship to Lloyd's
Cotfee-Houfe, and the Bank.
" My Lord,
" I have the honor to inform your Lordship,
that a MelTenger is arrived from his Majelty's
AmbaUador Extraordinary at Madrid, with the
account that, in compliance with his Majelty's
demand of fatisfa<ftion for the capture of the Bri
tilli vellelsat Nootka, a declaration was (igned 011
the 24U11 of July, by Count Florida Blanca in the
name of his Catholic Majesty ; and that the fame
was accepted in his Majelty's name, by his Majes
ty's Ambafl'.idor, who was thereupon to proceed
to the dii'cullion of the matters depending be
tween the two courts, with a view to a Defenlivc
Arrangement.
" The declarations above referred to, will be
immediately published in aGazette Extraordinary,
which will be forwarded to your Lordfliip as soon
as it is printed. " I am, my Lord,
" Your Lordlhip's molt obedient
" And molt humble Servant,
" W. W. GRENVILLE
" The RiglitHon. Lord Mayor of London."
On this the bustle at the Stock Exchange be
came undefcribable—the number of long and
lliort faces mixed, exhibited a scene which our
readers may ealier conceive than we candefcribe
—The Consols mounted to 80 1 half, and the other
funds in proportion.
FROM THE LONDON GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
lVhitehi.lt Augujl 5
This morning one of his Majesty's meflengers
arrived from Madrid, at the office of his Grace
the Duke of Leeds, his Majesty's principal Secre
tary of state for Foreign Affairs, wiih dispatches
from the Right Hon. Alleyne Fitz Herbert, his
Majesty's Auiballador extraordinary and plenipo
tentiary at that court, containing an account of
the following Declaration and Counter-Declara
tion having been llgned and exchanged, on the
24th of July last, by his Excellency Count Florida
Blanca, nis Catholic Majesty's Minister and prin
cipal Secretary of state, on the part of the Catho
lic King.
DECLARATION.
His Britannic Majesty having complained of
the capture of certain veflels belonging to his
fubjeifts in the port of Nootka, situated on the
north-weft coast of America, by an officer in the
service ofthe King ! The underligned Counsellor
and Principal Secretary of state to his Majesty,
being thereto duly authorized, declares in the
name and by the order of his said Majesty that he
is willing to give (atisfacftion to his Britannick
Majesty for the injury of which he has complain
ed ; fully persuaded that his said Britannick
Majesty, would ad; in the fame manner towards
the King, under similar circumstances ; and his
Majesty further engages to make full Restitution
of all the British veflels which were captured at
Nootka, and to indemnify the parties interested
in those veflels, for the lodes which they ffiall
have f'uftained, as soon as theamountthereof shall
have been ascertained :
It being understood that this declaration is not
to preclude or prejudice the ulterior discussion of
any right which his Majesty may claim, to form
an exclusive eftablilhment at the port of Nootka.
11l witnels whereof I have signed this declara
tion, and sealed it with ihe seal of my arms.
At Madrid, the 24th of July, 1790.
(L.S.) Signed
Le Covite de Florida Blanca.
614
" Whitehall, August 6.
COUNTER DECLARATION.
His Catholic Majesty having declared, that he
was willing to give fatisfa&ion for the injury
done to the King, by the captu re of pertain vef-
Jels belonging to his fubjedts, in the Bay of Noot
ka, and the Count de Florida Blaiita having sign
ed, in the name and by order of his Catholic
Majesty, a declaration to this effect ; and by which
his laid Majelty likewile engages to make full
reftitiuion of the veiiels so capcured, and to in
demnify the parties interefteU in those vefl'els for
the lofles they lhall [have fu'tained ; the under
(igned Ambaflador extraordinary and Plenipo
tentiary of his Majesty to the Catholic King, be->
ing thereto duly and exprelsly auihorifed, ac
cepts the said declaration, in the name of the
King; and declares that his Majesty will confidei
this declaration, together with the performance
of the engagements contained therein, as a full
and entire iatisfa&ion for the injury of which
his Majelly has complained.
The under-signed declares, at the fame time,
that it is to be underltood, that neither the said
declaration iigned by Count Florida Blanca, nor
the acceptance thereof by the under-signed, in
the name of the King, is to preclude or prejudice
in any refpecft, the right which his Majesty may
claim to any eftabliftiment which his fubjec'is
may have formed, or should be defirousof form
ing in future, at the said Bay of Nootka.
hi witness whereof I have signed this Counter
declaration, and sealed it with the Teal of my
arms, At Madrid, the 24th of July, I 790,
(L.S.) Signed
John Bull grumbles hideously—abuses the Mi
nistry, and swears that the Spanish" fatisjadion is
no fatisfaflion at all."
Oilier information corroborative of the above
has been received in town from Madeira ; with
the addition of the following particulars : That
all warlike preparations are to cease for three
months ; and that before the expiration of that
time, winter will effectually suspend every naval
operation.
Our readers will bbfervethat the concclfion
made by Spain, is only for the veflels taken in
Nootka Sound. The right of the English to trade
on the North-weft coalt of North America, is to
be the fubjccl of future litigation. At present
the conduct of Spain does not appear very humi
liating—for lhe has paid only for what (he has
taken.—But the Briti/h nation must be greatly
disappointed when they find that Spain is not to
pay the expenses of the Briti/h armament :—And
that the demand for the vessels taken, was only
200,0001. llerling :—Whereas the exrraordinary
expenses of fitting the Engli/h navy for sea,
amount to near two millions. This, as Teague
fays in the play, " is gaining a 10/s."
( Columbian Centiml.)
DUBLIN, July 30.
Sunday moringat nine o'clock, the goldfiniths
and independent corps of Dublift volunteers pa
raded at Thollel, to the number of nearly three
hundred.
All the officers and privates on this occasion
mounted the national cockade, composed of tin,
painted green, and cut into the form of a ribbon,
and puffed round a medallion, on which is paint
ed, in gold, the harp and imperial crown, armo
rial insignia of Ireland—and out of the cockade
fpings a label, which mounts above it in the form
of an inverted crescent, inferibed in gold, with
the word " National."
LONDON, August 2.
Their are great quantities of the stones of the.
Baftile for sale about town. This (lone fells at
so much the pound, and brings more than our
belt prime beej.
Lord Hardwicke is spoken of as successor to
Lord Weftmoreland in the Viceroyfhip of Ireland
fliould thelatter not choofeto remain there.
The tumults in France, feeminmany places to
be reviving. At Avigon, Orange, and the adja
cent parts they are eticrealed to a point little Jhorc
of open war.
Nor is Lyons more quiet : all the barriers are
thrown down, and all subordination deltroyed.
Some pretend that the inhabitants have declared
themselves independant, and have armed them
selves in defence of their ancient rights.
The large army that is aflembling on the bor
ders of France by the King of Sardinia, gives
great apprehension to the revolutionists. The
Sardinian ambaflador being questioned on this
fubjecft by a Parisian a few days llnce, answered
very cooly, that as an ambaflador, he could fay
nothing : but as a man, he thought that if the
plague reigned in any country, it was right in
its neigbours to prevent the contagion from be
ing communicated.
The Uniform of the National Guards of France
is decreed hy the National Aflembly, and is to be
bnperial blue, white lining, scarlet cuffs and fac
ings, white collar, and white edgings, yellow but
tons,with the words diftrili of —inlcribed oh them.
On the flaps of the coats turned up, the word COll
- on one fide, and Liberty on the other —
Veils and Breechcs, white.
Alleyne Fitz Herbert.a
-rss
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
BIONIS IDYLLIUM SECUNDUM
PARAPHRASED.
1
AS a fpoitive young Fowler was ranging a grove,
On a high bufliy bough he efpicd little Love ;
Who wantonly waving his wings, while at play,
Appeat 'd to our iportsman, Come fine-featber'd Jay ;
hxulting with joy, he his birdlime prepares,
And hopes to allure little Love to his snares;
But Lowe, wily Love, well acquainted with all
That can either the mind or the body enthraM,
Continued his pdllime, nor heeded the boy,
4'ully conlcious he could not his pleafurcs destroy.
The tripling at length difappeiutcd and vexr,
At the strange bird's behavior, moil likely pcrplcxt.
Toa neighboring husbandman eagerly flew,
And pointed where Cupid Tat perch'd, still in view ;
As the old Ploughman smiled. he ihook. his grey hairs,
'• Fly ! fly my f\j;eet son from yon little beast's fuares,
" Oh ! how happy for you, it ever as now,
" He leaves you unnotie'd, and hops on the bough :
" But wheu manhood has ripen'd, and fill'd you with blood,
" He will creep to the fountain, and poifoo the flood.
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 2.
Capt. Barnes, who arrived at Boston in 36 days
from Ferrol, informs that a letter received by
the Britifti Consul there, from the Briti(h Am
baflador at Madrid, intimated that lie was doubt
ful whether the concession made by Spain would
produce a reconciliation between the two Courts.
Capt. Barnes further informs, that when he lefc
I'errol great preparations for war were making
at that place—and that every thing wore the
appearance of an immediate rupture.
The Englifii appear to be much diffatisfifcd
with the late comprotnife made by Mr. Pitt with
Spain—but he has heretofore come oft vi<flori
ous, and in the present instance will doubtless
juftify his own condudt ; if he cannot man the
fleet what is_to be done ? Perhaps John Bull
thinks their empty ships can beat the Dons.
Wednesday lart the Britilh Packet Portland ar
rived here in jo days from Falmouth and Hali
fax—She brought papers to 6th August. The
Levant,jCapt.Oillis,is arrived at Philadelphia,and
brought accounts to 12th.
In consequence of the defeat of the King of
Sweden on the 3d and 4th July—it is surmised by
the Englifli politicians, that the King of Pruflia
will attack Catharine—in order to prevent an
undue preponderance of the balance of power in
her favor.
This balance of power,a most flimfey pretence
for going to war, has too long proved a curse to
the European Itates.—Louis the XlVth, under
the pretext of supporting this ideal equilibrium,
destroyed the liberties of France—and the En
gliih, deluded by the fame phantom, have facri
fieed thousands of their Veterans in Germany.—
The enlightened policy of the National Afiem
bly of France has led them to reject the illusion
—fully convinced that the true interest of their
country confilts in tranquilizing their citizens,
and reitoring the equilibrium of reason and com
mon sense.
A motion was made by the President, and ac
quiesced in by the National Allembly of France,
previous to the late grand confederation, that
during the ten days appointed for the ad million'
of the military deputies to be present at the de
bates, all other perions, even thofechofen as fub
ftitutcs for the Na-.ional Representatives them
selves, should give place to the new vilitants ; and
that in this particular there Ihould be no excepti
m but in favor of the Editors of news papers.
There cannot be a Itronger proof of the libe
rality of this August Senate, and of their sincere
wilh to give their proceedings as great a notori
ety as possible.
In the late proccffion of France, every order
was diltinguifhed by some emblematic device,
indicative of the diftridt from whence it came, or
the body which it represented—and in doing
this, fancy had exerted its powers in ornament
and design, in such manner as to lurin a moll no
ble appearance.
The amphitheatre in the Champ de Mars was
an immense inclofure : It contained thirty bench
es riling one above another, fufficiently capacious
to accommodate 300,000 persons. The Duke of
Orleans was present, and as M. D'Orleans took
his feat among the Members of the National As
sembly ; he has retrieved his popularity, by an
appeal to the people, in which he requests, that
if he has committed any crime, he may be tried,
not by Judges, but by a Jury.
According to the iingliih papers the people of
France have changed the title of Louis XVI.
from King to that of Emperor.' !
Addrefles from the foreigners in Pans were
pefented to the National Aflembly immediately
after the memorable 14th July—and were order
ed to be printed.
Docftor Franklin's definition of a whig.—One
that claims no right to himfelf, that he is not willing
to give to his neighbour. Some intolerant dema
gogues of the present day would do wdl to con
over this sentiment.
A writer in a late London paper obferTes, that
nothing will contribute more to the riling great
ness ps America than that unbounded toleration
and prote&ion she holds forth to all feels and de
scriptions of men.—The Roman Catholics, Pro
testants, Quakers, and innumerablefubaltern de
nominations live there in one common bond of
amity—none of which are precludetl from oflices,
either of honor or profit.—The liberality of sen
timent by which the celebrated General Wash
ington 'has at all times been actuated, was ne
ver more apparent than on a recent occasion,
when an address was prefenced to him by the Ro
man Catholics of America.—He allured them in
the character of PrejiAent of the United States,
of the utmolt protection of government, and the
fame liberty enjoyed by other citizens.
It is the report, by accounts from India, that
Tippoo Saib was kitted in his late attack onTra
vancore.
Three managers of the impeachment of War
ren Haltings are left out of the new Parliament.
Henry James Pye, Efq.a late member of Parli
ament, is appointed Poet Laureat to the King of
Great Britain.
It seems that Pye is preferred to sfpplc Duvip
lings—lb Peter has loft the Laureatfhip.
The number of inhabitants on the face of the
globe are estimated at nine hundred millions, out
of which scarce eight and thirty millions exist in
a state of freedom.
Buttons made of (late are likely to be the ton
—a set made at Birmingham by Mr. Clay, has
lately been presented to the King of Great-Bri
tain—they will not forget the Kingin the button
line
Died, in England, Sir John Lockhart Rofs,
Vice Admiral of the blue :—this officer will be
recognized as the famous Capt. Lockhart, who
commanded the Tartar, the war before last.
Died in Edinburgh, Adam Smith,Efq. L. L. D.
and F. R. S. Author of the celebrated work on
the IVealth of Nations.
Samuel Griffin, Elq. is re-eletfted a member of
the Honfe of Representatives for Virginia.
ThuiTday the 25th November is appointed by
the Governor of Maflachufetts to be observed as
a day of general thanksgiving by the people of
that Commonwealth.
The Commitlioners of Vermont and New-York, are now con
vened in this City, to tranfaft the important buftnefs for which
ttiey were appointed by their refpettive legislatures.
In the Advcrtifewent forpropofals J or bull dims, a Light House,
on CApe-Henry, in the gth line,firjt paragraph, these words, 44 faccd
with hewn or h3mmei-dreired"77<iWi have been omitted \ ajew copies
wereJiruck off with this error ; Jhould it be thus inserted in any oilier
paper, it is rcqufjied that the correction may follow.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Packet Portland, Rogers, Falmouth and Halifax, 50
Brig Boon, Orange, Guyon, (Spain) 49
Sloop Polly, Robert*, Nodolk, 8
Dt light, Vail, Wjfhington (N. 7
Schooner New-York Packet, Barnard, Boflon 7.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Final Settlements 12/2 a 12fa.
Indents "J\. a 7J2.
State Securities 9f.
BOSTON, Sept. 22
We hear from Sanford, in the county of York,
that on Wednesday the Bthinftant, as two young
children, sons of Dr. Abel Hall, were playing
near a well, the youngelt of them about three
years of age,leaning against the curb of the well,
the upper board of which was nailed on the in
side, it gave way, and the child pitched in and
fell twenty three feet, when his head ltruck the
water into which he plunged, and immediately
rising received instantaneous alfiftance ; Capt.
Ebenezer Halj, descending into the well, by
the pole, seized the child, before it could fink
again, and taking it into his arms was drawn up
and restored him to his diftrelled mother; the
child having not received the lealt bruise or
wouud. The well was less than two feet in di
ameter and stoned to the bottom.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,")
New-York, Sept. 28, 1790. J
THE following regulations, which have been adopted towards
carrying; into execution the ast, making provision for the
debt ot the United States, are announced for the information of
the public creditors.
WHEN a transfer is to be made from one person to another, the
certificate or certificates of the debt to h* transferred, must be pro
duced at the proper office, in order that the fame may be can
celled, and a new one, or new ones issue, as tjje cafe (hall require.
When a transfer is desired from one office to another, appli
cation must iu the firft instance be made at the office where the
credit exists, whereupon the certificate or certificates of the debt
to be transferred will be cancelled, and a special one granted, as a
voucher to the Secretary of the Treasury ; upon the production
and delivery ot which to,him, a warrant will issue to the office,
to which thf debt is to be transferred, where the bufincfs will be
completed. The form (A) at foot hereof, has been adopted for
letters of attorney, to make transfers, whica, and the dire&ions
for completing it, it is expetted will be carefully observed.
In every cafe of a transfer of the fubferibed or funded debt, the
new certificate will bear interest, only from the firft day of the
quarter, in which the transfer is made. The unpaid interest which
may have accrued prior to that quarter, will be paid only to the
person, who was iluckholder at thet me it accrued, or to his spe
cial aflignee.
Fourteen days before the expiration of each quarter, the books
of each officc will beclofed ; so that no transfers will be made,
nor, except at the Treasury, will any fubferiptions be received,
or old certificates exchanged for new ones, on the application of
non-fubferibers, during that period. Thole intending to become
fubferibers to the proposed Loan, who do not fubferibe, prior to
the commencement of any such period—or tbofe intending not to
615
subscribe, who do not pr-sent their old ccrtificitf, to be ex.nang.
Ed, or it holdeii.of certificates ps the Register of the i reatury,
who do not notify to theTreafury their intention not to fublcnbe,
prior to I'uch commencement of luch period, will not receive the
intcreft, which may have accmed antecedently, kill °
the quarter in a)4;c4 their lubfcripu >n , are made, or inwuicli their
certificates are exchanged, or ia which they (hall io notify ihcir in
tcntion not to fubfcriw'*. tins, the proper distribution ot the
funds, and the prelervation ot order render indifpenljbk.
On the fubferibed or funufcd debt, inteveft as it becomes oil,
will be paid without pioduClion ol the certificates '.ir..cd tor the
fame. On the unfubfcnbed debt, if an v there lhall be, the pro
duttion of the certiticates will be necessary, in Older to the receipt
of the inierelt, and an indorfemrnt ot the piym< nt of it upon the
certificates. Tins however, in confideraii'in of ihe i i!k and "I ' I ''
venience of tranfmiilion, will not be required of those wh<> hold
certificates of the Register of the Treasury, i'iid reside out ot the
United States. The form (B) at foot hereof, ot a letter ol attor
ney for receiving intercft, and ilie dirt£lions ihtifwnb, iiis ex
pected will be carefully pursued.
FORM of a POWER of ATTORNEY, to tranf-
KNOW ALL MEN by these presents : That
rrue and lawful Attorney, for
fell, alUgn and tiansfer
the
{landing in
with power also an Attorney or Attornies under for that
purpofe,to make and substitute ; arid to do all lawful a£ts requi
site for effecting the piemifes ; hereby ratifying and confirming all
that said Attorney, or Substitute or Subftitutcs (hall
do therein by virtue hereof.
IN WITNESS whereof
Hand and Sea] , the
Year of our LORD, One Thousand
Sealed and delivered )
in the prcfence of >
BE IT KVOWN, that on the
One Thousand Hundred
within named,
and acknowledged the above Letter of Attorney to be
Act and Deed. In te&imony whereof I have hereunto set my
Hand and
the Day and Year last aforefaid.
came
DIRECTIONS,
IF the power isto extend to the whole of the Hock, the word
" all" is to be inserted after the word 44 transfer." If only to
part, the particular sum is to be inserted, with the addition rtf the
words 44 being part of."
If the power is to extend only to a certain fpccies of ftnek, it
may be exprefled in the different cases by inserting in the blank
between the words 44 the" and 44 Stock" the words 44 funded
Six per Cent." (which will designate the Stock bearing a prcfent
lutercft) or the woids, 44 funded Three per Cent." (which will
designate the Three per Cent. Hock,) or the word 44 D-tcrred"
(which will designate the Stock bearing Interest at the end of ten
Years) or the word 4t unfunded" (which will designate the un
fubferibed part of the debt.)
If no power of substitution is deft red to be given, the whole
that relates to it, to be omitted ; the place of abode, and quality
of each witness, to be written against his name.
The acknowledgment may he taken before any Judge of a
Court of the United States, or of a Superior Court of Law or Equi
ty in any State, or ol a County Court, or before the Mayor or other
Chief Magistrate of any place ; or before a Notary Public.
In the acknowledgment, if the Seal of a Court, or Corporation,
is to be affixed, the words 44 caused to be" may precede the word
44 affixed", the blank immediately following to be filled with a
designation of the Seal; as, that it is the Seal of a certain Courr,
naming it; or the Seal of a certain Corporation, naming; it ; or the
Seal of Office of the party before whom the acknowledgment is
taken, if he lias one ; or it he has none, with the words 41 ray Seal."
If there be no public or official Seal to the acknowledgment,
proof of the execution of the Power must be made by Oath or
Affirmation of one of the Witnefles, to be taken before some per
son duly authoriied at the place where the transfer is to be made.
FORM of a POWER of ATTORNEY, to receive
KNOW ALL MEN by these prcfents : That
do make, conflitute and appoint
true and lawful Attorney, for
U> reccive the interest
the Stock, (landing in
name
in the Books of
with power also an Attorney or Attornies, under for that
purpose, to make and fubftitutc ; and to do all lawful Acts requi
lite for effecting the Prcmifes ; hereby ratifying and confirming
all that laid Attorney, or Substitute or Subft:-
tutes (hall do therein by virtue hcreo c .
IN WITNESS whereof
Hand and Seal , the
of our Lord, One Thousand
Sealed and delivered )
in the prcfence of J
BE IT KNOWN, thai on the
One Thoufeud Hundred
came
ledged the above Letter of Attorney to be
IN Tcftimony whereof I have hereunto set my Hand and
the Day and Year lail aforefaid.
IF the Power is to be general, the words " now due, or which
(hall hereafter grow due upon" are to be inserted after the word
" interest." If not general, the time for, or to which the interest
is tobe received, tobe specially expressed after the word " interest."
If no Power ot Substitution it dcfired to be given, the whole
that relates to it, to be omitted. The place of abode, and quality
of each Witneft, to be written against his name.
The acknowledgment may be taken before any Judge of a
Court of the United States, or of aSuperior Court of Law or Equi
ty in any State, or of a County Court, or before the Mayor, or
other Chief Magistrate of any place, or before a Kotary Public.
In the Acknowledgment, if the Seal of a Court or Corporation
is to be affixed, the words " caused to be" may precede the word
" affixed." The blank immediately following to be filled with
a designation of the Seal ; as that it is the Seal of a certain Court,
naming it; or the Seal ef a certain Corporation, naming it: or
the Seal of Office of the Partv before whom the Acknowledgment
is taken, if he has one ; or it he has none, with the words "my
Seal."
If there be no public or official Seal to the Acknowledgment,
proof of the execution of the Power, must be made by Oath or
Affirmation of one of the Witnefles, to be taken before some Person
duly authortfed, at the Place where the trausfcr is to be made.
(A)
fer Stock
do-roakc, conftitutc and appoint
and in
name in the Books of
have hereunto set
Day of
hundred
Day of
before me.
(B)
Interest.
have her#.into set
Day of in the Year
Hundred
Day of
before me
within named,
Ast and Deed
DIRECTIONS
name to
Stock.
in the
and in
name
and acknow-THOUGHTS ©tf GOVERNMENT,
APPLICABLE TO THE
PRESENT STATE OF the AMERICAN COLONIES.
Written in the Year 1776,
By the VICE-PRESIDENT of the Unites St ates,
Then a Member of Con rtfs ;
In a*LETTER to the Hon. GEORGE WYTHE,
oIVIRCINIA.
(Concludedfrom our UJt.)
TN the present exigency ofAmer.can affairs.when.by an*a of Pa -
1 liament we are pat out of the royal protest, on, and
ly discharged from our allegiance ; and it has become necessary to
•kmc government for our immediate fecunty, the Gov Lieut.
Gov. Secretary, TreaCurer, Comm.ffary, Attorney-Genera]l, Ihould
be chosen by joint ballot, ot both Houses. And thee and all other
cle£l:ons, especially of Representatives and Councilors, Ihould be
annual, there not being in the whole circle of the fc.ences, a max
im more infallible than this, « Where annual elea.ons end, there
slavery begins."
These great men, in this refpeft, should be, once a year
" Like bubbles on the sea of matter borne,
" They rife, they bunk, and to that sea return."
This will teach them the great political virtues of humility, pa
tience, and moderation, without which every man in power be
comes a rav: nous beast of prey. , ,
This mode of confuting the great offices of date will answer
■very well for the present ; but if, by experiment, it Ihould be
found inconvenient, the legislature may, at its leisure, devise other
methods of creating them, by eleaions ot the people at large, as
in Omneaicut, or it may enlarge the term for which they (hall
be chosen to seven years, or three years, or for life. or make any
other alterations which the society (hall find produtlive ot us ea(e,
its fafety, its freedom, or in one word, it? happint fs.
A rotation of all offices, as well ai of Representatives and Coun
sellors has many advocates, and is contended for with many plau
sible arguments. It would be attended no doubt with many ad
vantages, and if the focicty has a fuffirient number of Tunable cha
raOe.s to supply the great nun-'.er of vacancies which would be
made by such a rotation, I can fee no objection to it. These per
sons mav be allowed to fcrve for three years, and then be excluded
three year", or for any longer or (horter term.
Any seven or nine of the legidative Council may be made a
Quorum, for doing bufincfs as a Privy Council, to advise the Go
vernor in the exercifeof the executive branch of power, and in
*11 afis of state.
The Governor (hould have the command of the militia, and ot
*11 your armies. The power of pardons ihould be with the Go 1
\>ernor and Council.
Judges, juftiees and all other officer", civil and military, Ihould
be nominated and appointed by the Governor, with the advice
»nd consent of Council, unless you choose to have a government
more popular; if you do, all officers, civil and military, may be
chosen by joint ballot of both houses, or in order to preserve the
independence and importance ot each house, by ballot of one
house, concurred by the other. Sheriffs (hould be chosen by the
freeholders of counties- so (hould Registers of Deeds and Clerks
of Counties.
All officers (hould have commiflions, under the hand of the Go
vernor and seal of the Colony.
The dignity and (lability of government in all its branches, the
morals ot the people and eveiv blcffing of society, depend so
mi ch upon an upright and (killful adminiflration otjuftice, that
the judicial power ought to be diilina from both the legislative
and executive, and independent upon both, that so it may be a
check upon both, as both (hould be checks upon that. The
Judges therefore should always be men of learning md experience
in the laws, of exemplary morals, great patience, calmness, cool
ness and attention. Their minds (hould not be diftraaed with
jarring interefls; they (hould not be dependant upon any man, or
bodyof men. To thefeends they (hould hold c'.tates for life in
their offices, or in other words their commiflions (hould be during
good behavior, and their salines ascertained and eftablilhed by law
For misbehavior the grand Inqucll of the Colonv, the House ot
Representatives, should impeach them before the Governor and
Council, where they (hould have time and opportunity to make
their defence, but if conviaed, (hould be removed from their of
fices, and fubjeaed to such other punilhmeot as lhall bethought
proper.
A militia law, requiring all men, or with very few exceptions,
liefides cases ol conscience, to be provided with arms aud ammu
nition, to be trained at certain seasons, and requiring counties,
towns, or other small diftrias, to be provided with public (locks
of ammunition and entrenching utensils, and with some fettled
plans for transporting provisions atter the militia, when marched
to defend their country against sudden invasions, and requiring
ceiuin diftritls to be provided with field pieces, companies of
tnatroffes, and perhaps some regiments of light horse, is always a
wife inlluution, and in the present circuinftanccs of our country,
indifpenfible. .
Laws for the liberal education of youth, especially of the lower
class of pcopie, aie so extremely wife and ufelul, that to a humane
and generous mind, no cxpence for this purpose would be thought
exiravagant.
The very mention of famptuary laws will cxcitc a smile. Wheth
er our countrymen have wisdom and virtue enough to submit to
them I know not. But the happiness of the pcopie might be
greatly promoted by them, and a revenue laved (juicient to carry
on this war forever. Frugality is a great revenue, beftdes curing
*is of vanities, levities, and fopperies, which are real antidotes to
all great, manly and warlike virtues.
But mud not all commiflions run in the name of a King ? No.
"Why may they npt as well run thus, " The Colony of to
A. B. greeting', and be tested by the Governoi ?
Why may not writs, instead of running in the name of a King,
run thus, " The Colony of to the Sheriff, &c." and be
reded by the Chief Tuftice.
Why msy not indidtments conclude, " against the peace of the
Colony of and the dignity of the fame ?"
A Constitution, founded on these principles, introduces know
ledge among the people, and mfpirts them w'th a confeious dig
nity, becoming Freemen. A general emulation takes place, which
causes good humour, sociability, good manners, and good morals
to be general. That elevation of sentiment, inspired by such a
government, makes the common people brave and enterprizing.
That ambition which is inspired by it makes them lober, indust
rious and frugal. You will find among them some elegance, per
haps, but more solidity ; a little pleasure, but a great deal o) busi
ness—some politencfs.'but more civility. If you compare futh a
country with the regions ot domination, whether or
ariftocratical, you will fancy yourfelf in Arcadia, or ElyTmm.
If the Colonies (hould alfume governments separately, they
should be left entirely to their own choice of the forms, and if a
Continental Constitution (hould be formed, it Ihould be a Con
gress, containing a fair and adequate Representation of the Colo
nies,'and iis authority (hould sacredly be confined to these cases,
viz. war, trade, difputcs between Colony and Colony, the Polt-
Officc, and the unappropriated lands of the Crown, as they used
to he called. .
These Colonies, under such forms of government, and in such a
union, would be unconquerable by all the Monarchies of Europe.
You and I, my dear friend, have been sent into life, at a time
■when the grcateft lawgivers of antiquity would have wished to
have lived. How few of the human race have ever enjoyed an
t oportunity of making an eleaion of government tnoie than of
air foil or eTiraate. for themselves or their children. Wii?n !
before ihe present f podia, had threc | " , ''' l " nl °' pC °V ft
and a fair opportunity to form and establish the wifelt p
piefl government that human wisdom can contrive ? I hop. y
will avail youifclf and your country of that extensive Icarn.ngand
indefatigable industry which you poff fs, to assist her in the forma
lions of "the haopieft government!, and thebeft character of a great
people—For myfelf, I mult beg you to keep my name out ot
Lht, for this feeble attempt, if it should be known to be mine,
would oblige me to apply to myfelf those line» of the immortal
John Milton, in one ot tiis fonnetj,
" I did but teach the age to suit their cloggs,
" By the plain rules o) ancient Liberty,
•' When h ! a barbarous noise surrounded me,
•' Of owls, and cuckoos, ajjtS, apes and dig I."
EXTRACT.
Dr. Price, in his Resolution Sermon, afterre
probating, in pointed terms, adulation to men in
power as Jebafing to those who offer, and corrupt
ing to those who receive it, observes, " It is a
trite observation, that extremes generally beget
one another : This is particularly true in the
present cafe. Persons justly informed on the fub
jecfl ot government, when they lee men dazzled
by looking up to high stations, and observe loyal
ty carried to a length that implies ignorance and
servility ; such persons, in such circumftar.ces,
are in danger of Ipurningat all public authority,
and throwing off that refpe<stful demeanor to per
sons inverted with it, which the order of society
requires. There is undoubtedly a particular de
ference and homage due to civil magiffrates, on
account of their ftationsand offices ; nor can that
man be either truly wife, or truly virtuous, who
despises government, and wantonly f(eaks evil of
his rulers—or who does not by all the means in
his power endeavor to strengthen their hands,
and to give weight to their exertions in the dis
charge of their duty."
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sept. 28, 1790.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be received at the
Office oi the Secretary of the Treasury, until the 3111 day
of December next inclusive, for the building of a LIGHT HOUSE,
nearly of the dimensions proposed by the late Commiflioneis of
Virginia and Maryland, upon the lot of land on Cape Henry, in
the County ot PrincefsAnn, and State of Virginia, lately ceded for
that purpose to the United States. It is desired, that the proposals
mayieave theeleftion, whether the building above the foundation
(hall be of brick or stone, and as the cost and charges of those ma
terials vary, it is expetted, that a correfpondixig difference will be
made in the terms offered.
The foundation of the Light-House is to be of Hone, and funk
to the depth of thirteen feet below the water table, over the top of
which the pavement it to be laid. The diameter thereof is to be
twenty seven feet lix inches, with a vacancy of about nine feet in
the centre.
The diameter of the base isto be twenty fix feet, at which place
the thickness of the walls is to be fix feet. The height from the
bottom of the water table to the top of the stone work is to be
seventy two feet,where the diameter is to be fix feet fix inches, and
the thickness of the walls three feet. The form is to be an octagon,
having three windows in the east, and four in the weft. If it be
built of brick, it is to be faced with the glassy kind, if of ilone, it
is to be faced with hewn or hamrnci-dreifcd stone.
On the top of the stone work is to be a floor of joists, bedded
thereiu, planked over and covered with copper, extending about
two feet eight inches beyond the wall, thereby forming an eve,
which is to be finifhed wt\h a cornice, the whole having a descent
from the centre fufficient to throw off the water.
The lanthorn is to be Supported by eight posts of wrought Iron
of three inches square arid twenty feet in length, ten feet of which
are to be wrought into the (lone wall on the inner part at each
corner. The diameter of it is to be ten feet, leaving a platform on
the oufide thereof of about fix feet in width. All the work above
this is to be of iron and copper. The lanthotn is to be ten feet
high, having a fcmicircular roof of five feet more, with iron raft
ers covered with copper. The whole space between the posts sup
porting the lanthorn, is to be occupied Dy the sashes, which are
to be made of iron, each sash is to have twenty-eight panes of
glass, twelve by fourteen inches. One of the fafties on the south
weft fide is to be hung with hinges for a door to go out upon the
platform, from the outer part of which to the roof of the lanthorn
is to bca frame of iron covered with a net work of strong brass
wire, to prefcrve the glass from injuries by hail and flights of
birds in the night.
The rafters of the lanthorn are to be well faftened to an iron
hoop, over which is a copper funnel, through which the fmokc
may pass into a large copper ventilator in the form of a man's
head, capable of containing one hundred gallons. This head is to
be so placed as to be turned by a large vane on the spire above it,
that the hole for venting the smoke may always be to the leeward.
Eight dormant ventilators of fix inches diameter are to be fixed
in the roof of the lanthorn.
A clofc stove is to be provided and fixed in the lanthorn, which
is to be furnilhed with eight lamps, each capable of containing fix
quarts, hung in two tiers over each other transversely. There are
to be fix flights of stairs to ascend to the lanthorn, the entrance to
which is to be by a door covered with copper. The building is
to be furnifticd with two condu&ors, to secure it from the elfe&s
of lightning.
A trame house is to be bpilt for the keeper, twenty feet square,
two stories high, with a frame kitchen ; the whole to be finilhed
with lath and plaifter.
A vault for the storage and fafc keeping of the oil is to be built
of ftonc at a convenient distance, twelve feet wide, and twenty in
length. It is to be arched, and covered with earth m sand, over
which a (hed is to be built, and it is to be furnifhed with eight
strong cedar citterns with covers, each capable of containing two
hundred gallons of oil. The entrance isto be secured by a strong
door.
Good security for the faithful performance of the contratt will
be expetted. Payments on account will be made at proper sta
ges of the work, and the balance will be paid on its completion :
or, if a suitable difference should be made in the terms, caOi will
be advanced for the purchafeof materials and provisions»
03* The Prirters in the several States are requejled to insert this.
TO BE LET,
On very low terms—and entered upon immediatelyuntil the JirJl of
M&y "next.
THAT elegant new TWO STORY BRICK HOUSE, in the
Bowery-Lane, formerly occupied by Robert Gilbert
Livingston, deceased ; it has seven Fire Places with a good
Cellar under the whole House—a convenient out-Houfe in the
rear, with a Coach-Houfc, and Stables ; for further particulars en
quire of MANGLE MINTHORN
(2 w. t. f.)
616
Corporation Dock
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Jaff-rj, 179®.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propojals will be received at the office
of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the JirJl day of O&ober next in
cluhve,for the supply of all rations, which may be requiredfor the ufeof
the United States, from the frji dayaf January to the thirty firfl day of
December 17911 days indujivat the places, and within the dijlritt*
herein after mentioned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Ycrktowtl in theJlate of Pennfylvania t
and Fort Pitt and at Fori Pitt,
At any place or places, betwTYt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofh, on the
River Ohio, and at Fort M Intofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the movth of the Ri
ver Mujkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mujkingum.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Mujkingum, and
up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tufcarowas, and thence
over to the Cayoga River, and down the said River to its mouth.
At anyplace or places, betwixt the mouth of the river Mujkingum, and
the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and the mouth
of the great Miami at the mouth of the great Miami, and from thence to
the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of thz great Miami, up the
aid Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the Miami Village f
on the river of the fame name which empties into Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth of the
I JVabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Poll St. Vincennes. at Po/l St. Vin
cennes, and thence up the said river Wabifh, to the Miami Village, be
fore described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to the moutk
of the river Ohio.
At any place or places, on the eafl jideof the river MiJfiftppi,from the
mouth of the Ohio river, to the mouth of the Illinois river.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to the Miami
Village.
At any place or places,from the Miami Village to Sandujky, &nd at
Sandujky, and from Sandujky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt aud Venango, and at Venango.
At any place or placrs, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at Le Beuf
betwixt Le Beuf and and Prefq* JJle, at Prefq' IJle, and betwixt Prefq'
Isle and the mouth of Cayoga river.
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any place or places, on the rout
from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the way of Big Beaver
creek.
At any place or places, on the eafl Jide of the Mijffippi, between the
mouth of the Ohio andthe river Margot inclujively.
At anyplace or places,from thefaid river Margot, to the river Yazour
inclujively
At any place 01 places from the mouth of the river Tennefie, toOcochap
po or Hear creek, on the [aid river inclujively.
Should atiy rations be required at any places, or xvithin other diflrifls,
not fpeeified in these propofals,the price of the fume tobe hereafter agreed
on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
Tie ration tobe fupblird are to confifl of the following articles, viz.
One pound of breid or flour,
One pound of beef, or j ofa pound of park,
Half aJHI of rum y bran ay or whisk y,
One quait of felt,
Two quarts of vinegar, ( , ca ration,,
Two pounds ojjoapt ( *
One pound oj Candles t )
the proposals must fpecifythe lowefl price per ration. No credit is re
quired. ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Treasury Department, Sept. 20, 1790.
IT is hereby made known, that the following arrangement has
been adopted towards carrying into execution the Ast, mak
ing provision for the debt of the United States, viz.
Loan-Office Certificates, and those issued by the Commifllon
ers for the rdjuftmenl of accounts in the several States, will be re
ceivable only at the Treasury and by the refpe£live Commiflioners
of Loans within the States in which they were refpettively iffucd
The Certificates issued by the Register of the Treasury, by the Pay
Master General and Commiflioner of Army Accounts, by the
Commiflioners for the adjustment of the Accounts of the Quarter
Maker's, Commissary's, Hospital, Cloath ; ng, and Marine Depart
pirtments, Indents of Interest, and Bills of Old Emiflion, will
be receivable indiscriminately at the Treasury and by the Com
miflioners of all the States. The situation of the Checks has dicta
ted this arrangement for the greater security of the public again ft
impositions by forged or counterfeit paper, and the details which
have been adopted from the fame consideration for the execution
of the business are such, that it will give facility anddifpatch, if
applications from the Holders of Ceitificates of the Register of
the Treasury and of the Paymaster General, and Commiflioner of
Army Accounts, and of the Commiflioners of the five Depart*
ments above mentioned, are made in the firft instance at the Trea
sury ; and if applications from the Holders of Loan Office Certi
ficates, and Certificates issued by the Commiflioners for the adjust
ment of Accounts in the refpe&ive States, are made in like man
ner to the Commiflioners of Loans within the States in which they
were issued. Transfers can afterwards be made to any Office that
the Proprietors of these Certificates may desire.
(£T The printers of the fcveral States are requtjied to infer t this.
PURSUANT to a Resolve or a6l of Congress of the 10th day
of May, 1780, relative to the deftru&ioo of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 2d day of January 1780, the house occupied
by the fubferiber in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took fire and
was consumed, in, which was lodged a number of Loan-Office,
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the ftid
fire : There r ore if any person, hath any obje&ion why the said
Certificates should not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves of
Congress, they must make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoke of Loan-Office Certificates defiroyei in the house of John Holktr
on the zddiy of January 1780.
1778. No. Dols.
March 13. 1636 1 Samuel Cooke, jun. New-York, 6o»
1673 1 ditto. dr.. 6o*
Dollars, 1200.
1636
1673
In testimony whereof I have signed the present for pub
lication. HOLKER.
New-York, July «6tk t 1790.
WAR DEPARTMENT, Sept. 9, 1790.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids of
the United States, that the sums to which they are annually en
titled, and which will become due on the fourth day of March
ensuing, will be paid on the said day, by the Commissioners of
the Loans within the states refpettively, under such regulations
as the President of the United States may direst.
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of War.
(The Printers in the refpeftive States are requefled to publijh the
above in their newfpapers,Jor the /pace oj two Months./
|Cr* To be let, from IJt November, THE HOUSE
in which the Editor now lives :—A good Jituation for
a Boarding-House—being formerly octufied in that
business.