I.ISHED ..1.DN...,D„\.s AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENXO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. ji, c f Vol. ll.]
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
N'O. XXI. —— CONTINUED.
My foul ache*,
To know, when two authorities are up,
Neither fuprcme, how loon roniulion
May enter xl the ppol ooin , and take
J he one by the otitcr. ShakSjmU..
TN they.dft of thfffe irrefolntions, the Kind
-L sent them D<- Cru'lol a:u! i k to
g-,".c tutvi : .-n;.n ;o Crleahs. Tliele Lords re
inonftrated to tliem, that an AHembly lb refpeft
able, and which occasioned Co great an expcncc
to the King and the nation, had not been called
but on their account, and to fatisfy their com
plaints anil demands : 1 hat they were there to
deliberate oi! the means ot reforming the govern
ment, and appealing the disputes of religion ;
matters of so high importance, that they could
not be decided, without the ptefence and con
currence of the Princes of the blood. That if
the Princes of Bourbon, after having so often de
manded the reformation ofthe government, and
an examination of the cause of the Hugonots, re -
fufed to aflift at the States allenibled°for tliofe
purposes, it would seem that they meant to trifle
with the King, and insult the mijefty of an as
sembly which reprcfented the body ofthe nation.
That they ought hereafter, to impute to thein
felves alone, their exclusion from dignities and
governments, since they had nor deigned to come
and receive the authority which the King ap
peared dilpofed to grant them, with the concur
rence of the Stares. 'I hat this condudt proving
their little attachment to the service of the King,
and the good of the kingdom, they ought not to
be fur prized if the firmelt refolutiona (hoiild be
taken to extirpate the feeds of discord, and ma
nifeft designs to disturb the state. That if the
King was disposed to reward such as gave him
proofs of their obedience and fidelity, he was
i J 1 ■ *•* ,v- ti iwuva «/ui .a*
ceflhry fubmiflion, those who should attempt to
refill his will, and cxcite revolts in the cities and
Provinces of his kingdom; a crime of which he
would fufpecft tlie Princes of Bourbon, as long as
they should neglert to juftify themselves, and
their absence and obstinacy should confirm, the
injurious reports which were spread concerning
them. That hitherto neither the King nor his
Council, had given credit to them ; but that the
King desired that, for the honor of the royal
blood, the Princes would give proofs of their
fidelity and of their zeal for the good ofthe state,
and would juftify the sincerity of their intenti
ons in the eyes of France, whole attention was
attracted and fixed by the aflembly of the States.
These representations made little iinpreliion on
the Prince of Cond<?, who was resolved not to
risque his person, in a place where his enemies
could do all things. But his firmnefs was, in the
end, constrained to bend under the neceflity.
Cruflol returned to court, with an account of the
aversion of the Prince, to come to the States.
The Guises advjfed to employ force to determine
him. The Queen did not oppose it : and the
King took the resolution to constrain them by
force of arms. To this end they fend de Ther
mcs into Gafcony, and began to form under his
command, an army contpofed ofGendarmary and
al I the Infantry distributed in the neighbouring
Provinces.
The Bourbons were without troops, destitute
ef every thing, /hut up in Beam, a little Province
at the foot of the Pyrennees, wedged in between
France and Spain. They doubted not, that if, on
the one handthe troops of the King afl'em b led in
Gafcony, and on the other, those of the King of
Spain, who ardently wiftied to invade the feeble
remains of Navarre, ftiould attack them, they
fliould easily be subjugated and stripped of their
dominions. The infurredtions which the Prince
ofCondc had excited in France, had been attend
ed with no fuccef,. He was in Beam without
troops and without money. The King of Na
varre who would not expose the reft of his llates,
nor his wife and children, whom he had about
him, yielded to neceflity, more powerful than
any Counsels, and finally determined his brother
on thejourney to Orleans, in the general persua
sion, tiiat, especially during the fefiion of the
States, the ministry would not take any violent
resolution againftthem ; whereas, by obstinately
remainingat Beam, they would expose themselves
to the infamy which always accompanies the name
of rebels, and ruin tlieinfelves without resource.
The Cardinal of Bourbon, their brother, contri-
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1790.
bated not a little to hasten this resolution. The
foftnefs and ductility of his c L , aratfter, his aversi
on to troubles, his tenderne{jy,br his brothers,and
the insinuations of the QueeJt, engaged him to
ride pod to Beam, 3s I'oon as'Jie learnt the inten
tions and preparations ot the.court, to force the
King of Navarre and the Pfiiiee of Condc to ap
pear at the States. lie .exaggerated, on one
hand, the nmr bewi.frmops . "Mined against them,
».j .urtc bi - v.... il • k'; nnd 011 the other,
he allured them that the ki ,£ nnd the Queen,
had discovered none, but fav< rable difpolitions,
and an earnetl zeal to re ellaldiih conccjrd and
public tranquility. They left, therefore, th?
Queen Jane and her children, at Pau, and with
iew attendants, all three together, took the road
to Orleans. To be continued.
FOR THE CA7.ETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ODE
COME ardent love, and fill mybreaft,
Come in toy varied vesture r refs'd ;
Coiled each fcattcr'd Haggling beam,
Awake the lambent fires,
And form one general, one deftroyh<g flame,
"1 ill fated Ilavoc finks, and with fa:i^ueexpires;
It comes—my labouring hofom fwc\hs,
I burn with strong dune,
Each weaker pailion love repels,
And lights a general lirr.'
' It comes—itcomcs—l feel thCheU
In every (Irong puliation bcatj
Quick through the veins its dart, ")
Kiom every pore irs fparklings start, v
And the red life-blood boils about my heart. }
Alas I rave J my {Wife and rcafon fly.
And wild confufion whirls around each eye.
*♦#***»
But peace, a lucid hour succeeds—
A fqori tranquility I feel ;
' My cooling heart in silence bleeds.
And the red ftr<ams in fccret fteat
Now o'er creation's ample round \
I eafl an r h'd '•je, y&t
i\o onjetts here tne protpe6t bound,
Save yon descending fXy.
The stream that winds through yonder vale,
The bark that courts the kindly gale,
i lie breeze that sweeps the dift<rnt plain,
And undulates the golden grain ;
N The light and (hade, that fwift succeed
Along the verdure of the mead,
Afford no pleasure to my jaundie'd eye,
But pall the fight, and force the deep drawn sigh.
My friend whose presence once could charm,
My every care 10 reft,
Whose heart, with purtft virtue war m,
Still warms a friendly breafl ;
Alas I fly ! his presence pains my foul,
And love, and black despair, each rending thought controul.
To Icenes of fol'tude I go,
Aud sigh unutterable woe;
Even rocks, yvith sympathy, behold me weep,
And tears refponfivc, flow adown the craggy deep.
But why! ah whv do I complain !
Why tell my paflion to the world in vain !
All hope of happiness is fled ;
My dreams of bliss are flown away,
A midnight tcmprft (hrouds my morning ray—
Dcfpair and darkness veil me in their shade.
If I poflefs'd a De l i a Crusca's pen,
An Anna's* ardour, and an Anna's art,
My magic muse, might move ***»**'s iicart,
And charm her ear, to hear the love-lorn strain ;
Then fliould my numbers roll sublime along,
And all my paiDon glow amidst the long.
Or if my pen in plaintive verse,
Would tell the pangs I know,
Slow as the fad funereal hearle,
The tale should sadly flow.
Or if foft pity, e'er diftreft'd
The heart that warms her "fpollefs breast,
Still as the fill nt streamlets glide,
Where fought impedes the downward tide,
The foften'd founds, should flily steal,
And learn her yielding foul to feel.
Or if reviving hope (hould smile,
And spread foft alluring wile ;
Gaily I'd raifc the lively lay,
In wanton measure flap, and wildly fly away.
Or if cold frufty fear my bread should fill,
And each young joy, each budding transport chill ;
C o'li'd with dcfpair my every note Ihould move,
And deep dcfpondeuce drown the dying dirge of love.
Sept, 20thy 1790.
* Anna Matilda ; the decant carrefpondent 0/ Della
CR usca.
DR. FRANKLIN.
IT will be a monument of the vitfiory of philo'
sophy over prejudice, thatßp.NjAMiN Frank
lin, who jo years ago was a Compositor in London,
for 12s. a week, should have lived to be the au
thor of a Revolution, that emancipated a Conti
nent ; and that a solemn pnlilic mourning (hould
be decreed to his memory by the greateftnation
in Europe.
617
ALMANZOR,
An account of th e ka mo us Gf.r ma n Gene-
ral LAUDOHN, lately deceased.-
GENERAL Laudohn died the 14th of July
last at Neuditfchein about two in tlie morn
ing, in consequence of 9 retention of urine, witii
which he was attacked 011 the Bth of June. His
death was supposed to be haltcned by his refufal
to have the neceflary cataplasms applied, before
the operation ot the pundlure which his furgeoi.s
were obliged to perform ; the consequence was
a fever, and inflammation of the bladder, which
carried liiin off. fie died ir. the 74th year ot his
age
The body was conveyed to Vienna to be in
terred ac Haderfdorf, in a vault which he built
himfelf in the pariOi church there.
Uen. Laudohn was born in 1716, and was a
native of Livonia. He made his firft cam pain
under Marftial Munich in the war of 1738, be
tween the Ruffians and thf 2'urks. He was at
the raking ofOczakow, Choczim, and Stawntf
chame, where the Turks were entirely defeated.
Frederic the great refufed in 1741 to take
young Laudoh m into his fervites, laying he did
not like his countenance: though this monarch,
who was conftdered as the greatest general of
his age, said, that lie often admired
the positions of other generals, but that he ever
dreaded the battles of Laudohn-
In the year t 756, when but just entered into
the (ervice of the House of Austria, with thera'.ik
of Lieutenant Colonel, he made such rapid pro
grcfs, that within less than a year, he was gene
ral of the Artillery, and within three years,
Commander in chief of the whole army.
He rescued Olniutz whenbefieged by the Prtif
fians, beat the King himfelf at Frankford upon
the Oder, and at Zoudorfftook general
prisoner, carried Glatz and Schweldnitz by as
sault and flopped the progress of Frederic in a
w,r wh-rb rti'gV bnv» n ov? f-rr.l :u 'he hr. ,r..
of Aoftria.
In the year i 775, when elevated to the rank
of JVlarflial, at the head of 60,000 men, he hin
dered Henry, brother to the King of Prussia
from joining his army to that of the King.—So
high was his reputation, that Frederic used to
fay, he feared nobody so much as ;
and at Dubicza, Novj, Gradifca, and Belgrade he
had but to present himfeM" before the place and
fay with Cefar, Kfni, vidi, vici. Th 2 command
of the army is given for the present to Field Mar-
Ihal Count Colleredo.
P A K 1 i, July 13.
The anfmer of the President of the National AJtmbly,
to the 600 Deputies of the National Guards of
France.
Gentlemen,
At the moment in which absolute power ceased
to exist, by the liberation of twenty-five millions
of men from the fetters of defpotiim, it was an.
objetft of jufl apprehension, that the invaluable
blelfings of liberty would be loft, and anarchy
prevail; at that awful crills, the National Guards
appear, and France fees in them the defenders
of National liberty.
What functions, Gentlemen, can be so great
and noble ?—The Jove of your country is at once
the motive and recompense of your labours.
What duty is so ufeful or honourable ? To
watch over the persons and properties of your
fellow citizens—to give to tbem that confidence
of their own security, without which 110 liappi
nefs can exist—to promote the free tranfportati
0111° j • ? ra ,' n ' corn > & c -and to fiipprefs tumults
and disorders among the people and, above
all, to enforce the collection of the taxes, with
out which no nation can exift_ A ß E obligations,
of the strongest kind. The National A trem
bly know, Gentlemen, that you fulfil them in all
points.—l hey have made repeated declarations
ot their confidence in your patriotism They
conhder you as their children This day they
receive your homage, to-morrow the Nation will
receive your oaths !—at all times you will enioy
the love, the gratitude of your fellow citizens.
You have exerted your utmost endeavours to re
(tore the public tranquility, and those endea
vours have been crowned with success. It will
he a happy day to the National Aflembly when
• hey shall transmit to their fucceftors, the talk of
preserving that majefticfabric, the French conflitu
lion, which we are hastening to comoleat.
Kappy to fee you at this meeting, the National
AHembly offer to you its honours*
jj&go
[Whole No. isj.]THE ADDRESS,
Qffired to the National A[fembly oj France, in the name
of the citizens of the United States of America, on
the 10th oj "July, 1 790, by Mijfrt Barlow, Jones,
Black don, Swan, Vernon, Aptleton, Hud
■VTE L L, J A RV lS,a/ldG. WASH t N'GTO N GREENE.
gentlemen,
r "l~ , HEcitizens of the United States of America
J- now resident in Paris, (truck with admira
tion at the developement and extension of their
own principles in your great country, beg leave
to approach the holy altar of liberty, and ex
press to the national afTembly that ardent grati
tude and profound relpect, which are due to the
fathers of the nation and the benefaiftorsofinan
kind. The rays of the western liar, diffufed
from a diitant portion of the globe, are now met,
and reverberated by that riling fun of glory,
which floods with light the dominions of France,
and begins to illuminate the world.
Irrefutable is the energy of truth ; and the ce
lerity of her progress transcends calculation.
We believed, and we earneltly wished, that the
bleflings of liberty might oneday beunderitood ;
that the nations might rouse from their lethargy,
and aflert the rights us men, in a voice that men
could not refill. We believed that enormous lux
ury and domination would be disrobed of their
unnatural charms ; that arbitrary kings and ru
lers, thole gods of the earth, would be reduced to
renounce their idolatrous diltindtions, to mingle
with their fellow freemen, and rejoice in the fe
licity of the race. We believed, that religion,
themildeft daughter of heaven, would one day
divert herfelf of the borrowed terrors of intoler
ance, and change the sword of slaughter, to the
fceptrc of peace. We now behold thofc events
tnoft altonifhingly accelerated ; and we feel a
dignifying fatista<flion, a new and unspeakable
pleasure, in Handing before this venerable holt
of the heroes of humanity, who have contended
v-jth so much fucccefs in the field of truth and on
the heights of virtue.
May your efforts and achievements be recom
pensed with aiteflations of an applauding consci
ence, and the bleflings of a grateful country ; and
may the patriot king, who has i'o generously fa
crificed with you on the common altar of the pub
lic weal, amply partake with you in all tbofe re
wards which gratify the good and exalt the great.
The Monarch who began his youthful career
bv extending fuchfignal a<fts of heneficencc to a
dillant Ration, then ltruggling to be free, was
worthy to rejoice in thus voluntarily exchanging
the splendours of prerogative, and the rod of
despotism, for the homage of freemen, and the
love and gratitude of fellosv citizens. In the ac
clamations of regenerated France, he may in
deed be called the firit King of the French ; but
in the language of theextolling universe, he will
be lliled the firftKing of men.
And now, Gentlemen, we have but one request
to make..—We beg leave to enjoy the honor of
afliltingat that augull ceremony which promises
to perpetuate the happiness of France. When
the fiien of your nation, in our country, fought
and bled with us under the itandard of freedom,
they tauglu us to love them. At the present
moment, when the ellablifhuient.of principles
here, funilar to our own, invigorates the bonds of
our union, and attach us to yon by new ties that
dignify and strengthen society, exulting in your
political elevation, we hail you brothers and fel
low citizens ! and our hearts overflow with the
foft fentimetits of a more endeared amity.
At the foot of the fame altar where the repre
sentatives and soldier-citizens of a great empire
fliall take the oath ol fidelity to the nation, the
law, and the King, we iliould fwe ir an eternal
friendftiip to the French—yes, gentlemen, to all
the French who remain faithful to the princi
ples which you have consecrated ; for, like you,
we cherish liberty ; like you, we love peace.
THE PRESIDENT'S ANSWER
It was by aiding you in the acquisition of free
dom, tliat the French learned to know it, and to
love it. The hands that have broken the /hac
kles of freedom are not made to wear them.—
The French nation in this relpetfl, indeed, more
fortunate than rhe American, owes her victory to
the virtue and pntruotifni of her King ; while seas
ofblood were the pricc ofyours. Courage burlt
aliunder your chains—re;ifon has difl'olved our's.
Your country was the firll throne of liberty—now
Jliefupports herfelfontlie two worlds.
At the fcaft, which will give to the liniverfe
an affeifting fpeftacle of a great union of friends;
The Allembly will rejoice to f°e tlie*citizens of
the United States of America, who now prefer;t
themselves before us. Let us 11 ill be brothers,
and let the two nations form but one great peo
ple.
TRIESTE, July 7.
I he Ruffian squadron which anchored here,
failed for the Levant the 2iltoflaft month, to go
to the relief of Major Lambro Cazioni, who has
ryuglily treated.
PARIS.
A letter from Segna, dated. Jane 30, Ins
brought us the following important intelligence.
The TurklJh fortrefs of Czettin surrendered
to the Auitrian troops on the iecond of July,
LIVERPOOL, August 12.
A seaman, a few'days since, fell over the fide
of the Alligator frigate at Sheernefs :—Captain
Coffin, the commander beheld, from the man's
(icuation, that he mutt perish if not inftanily re
lieved ; and we mult add, to the honor of this of
ficer, that he did not pause a moment, but leaped
from the quarter deck, with his uniform and boots
on, and rescued the poor fellow from being
drowned, —at the imminent rilk of hij own kfc !
Well may a Sailor boldly dare,
And ardent follow martial (trife ;
For when with death himfeli at war,
He in a Coffiv meets with life.
Our falhionable fair seem, by universal consent,
to have discarded heels from their shoes ; this is
one of the very raijp examples in which appear
ance is facrificed to Conifort. <
DUBLIN, June 26.
This day, Mr. Cooney, printer of The Morn
ing I'ofk, Itood in the priory ere&ed in College
Green, for copying from a London paper the
following paragraph :
" The***'* "was formerly a very domeflic wotn.m,
hit now gives up too much of her time to politicks !"
The Ratnte of King William the 111. of glorious
memory, appeared in mourning—and round the
pedeltal was atlixed, the followinginfcription.
IN MOURNING
FOR THE BILL OF RIGHTS,
AND THE LIBERTY OF THE PRESS.
LONDON, July 8.
NEW WAY TO BORROW MONEY
A FARMER 111 Cumberland made his will, and
in coming home, feetningly from market, he
loft it at the doer of a very rich old fellow,
whose whole thoughts were running upon mo
ney. The old fellow found it at his gate, and
began to read it. He there found the farmer
was giving jool. to this person, and ioool. to ano
ther, and a farm, in a diitant county, to the third.
The old man went in and said " Aye, aye !
I always thought this fellow knew how to look
about him."
lu a few days tlie farmer came to tell him—
" That he was about to set up a manufactory ;
and if he could lend him 5001. it would much
oblige him." Tke old fellow, who had the will
in hit head, complied, without liefitation.
11l a few days afterwards the fellow broke, and
tlie old man, oil enquiry, found iliac the will was
au entire fabrication, and had been dropped at
his gate on purpose.
July 26.
On the Sunday subsequent 10 the day of the
National Federation, Sunday being the chosen
day for mirth and feftivity in Roman Catholic
countries, a grand feftival was given in Paris by
the Municipality, or COl porarion, to the Depu
ties from all the oilier parts of France.
It began by a review of the National Guards
of Paris, and was followed by a public dinner at
the Corn Market, called Le Halle du Hi, which
is an inimenfe Rotunda, covered with glass, shjd
with galleries all round. The Hotel de Richhcit,
which has extensive gardens, was also employed
for this fete, and in the evening, that which par
ticularly dilHngui/hed this joyful feaft, was a
grand ball in the interior Court of the late Baf
tile : the whole of the ruin was surrounded by a
rail, and at the principal entrance there was a
transparency with the following inscription :
" hi l'on danfe aujourd'hui."
They now dance Hers.
No carriages of any kind were permitted to ap
pear in the street on that day.
In the afternoon there was a Regatta on the ri
ver, which was very splendid, but in which there
was an accident of the oTerturning of one boat,
by which four persons weredrowned. Thercwas
to have been an aerostatic exhibition after the re
view, but the balloon burst. *
Aug.* 6. Should the present negociation with
Spain finally succeed, it will then be expected
that our cabinet ftiould explain, why an expen
sive armament (upwards of two millions, iter
ling) was the firft step towards it, and what ad
vantages have been obtained to counterbalance
the expence ?
Crowns and Diadems, from present appearan
ces, will soon go a begging through Europe. It
is certain that Leopold, Kmperor of Germany
has refufed the crown of Hungary, in consequence
of their deputies having on the i 3th of July pre
sented him 24 articles to sign which he could not
r<;lifli. He read them over, and positively refu
fed to put his name to them, notwithstanding
all the solicitations of the deputies, to whom he
declared that he was not at all anxious to be
crowned in Hungary, and that he had given or
ders to recall tliofe who had been sent to prepare
for the coronation.4— It is evident he is not so fo
licitousat present about the Hungarian crown as
the Imperial dignity.—As to the Hungarians they
618
becftme every day more iufole-.u 111 their preteti
fions—tumult iircreafes—-order is forgotten, del"-
pifed—nothing is heard but demands and threat
enings—under pretext of being tree eveiy indi
vidual wilhes to be matter.
riiercwere two men ordered for execution on
last Saturday, one lor a rape, the other for a high
way robbery. The former only was hanged,
the latter respited, and it is expected will be par
doned 011 account of his youth. Now molt o;'
the newlpapers have taken the liberty of liahg
ing both, regardless of the (aid respite. Ul' '~
lias not the unhanged gentleman a good action
for a libel, or would he be nonfuitedon the plea
of Lord Mansfield's repu:*d docftrine, " The
llro tiger the truth, the greater the libel." It 110s
being true that the man was hanged, as the laid
liewjpapers have falfcly aliened.
Yesterday Lieut. Macgnire was made Pofi Cap-,
tain in the Briiilh Navy ; in consequence
he immediately -entered into the poHellion of
n,oool. per annum, which was left to him in liis
infancy with the riihuftion, that he Ihould nor
enjoy it until he iJiould have anainedthc rank of
Foil Captain.
The French at Vienna requested leave of the
Auflrian Government to celeberate the National
Fete, on the 14th July. It wasrefufed ; in con
sequence of which they left the capital, and ef
fected their purpose at Nufdorf, a final! town 011
the hanks of the Danube.
The adlual place of interment of our imolorcal
Milton was on Wednesday discovered ThtC
workmen employed in the repairs of Cripplegate
Church dug up a coffin, from the infeription on
which, tkeieis undoubted-proof that the remains
of that sublime bard were there deposited—a cir
cumstance much fought for, but hitherto unknown
to the world.
August to.
The people of Brabant appear to be determin
ed to compleat their revolution on the plan ofthe
National Aflembly of France : Their Congi-cia
begins to be unpopular : The Duke d'Urfel wha
was confined by afentence of the Council of Flan
ders, has lately been set at liberty by the people,
and declared Generalissimo.
Died in the 87th year of his age, The Right
Hon. Francis North, Earl of Guilford, father of
the famous Lord North, by whom lie is fucceded
in his titles and estates.
1 he affairs of France according tofoine recent
accounts, wear a louring afpe<ft The armaments
of England, Spain, and the King of Sardinia are
supposed 10 have fonie refereuce to the posture
ofaffai i s in that country.
Letters from France announce an expedied
change in the French ininiftry : Mr, Necker
having cleared himfelf from the aspersions of M.
Camus, who charged him with embezzling 600
millions of livres, thinks the pre feu t a favorable
opportunity of retiring. M. St. Prielfc Hands
publicly charged with being privy to all the plots
for a counterrevolution. M. de la Tourdu Pin,
hasexcited suspicions by weakening the garrisons
on the frontiers—and has been severely handled
by the committee militaire. The Keeper of the
Seals, the Archbilhop de Bourdeaux is charged
with remifsnefs in not forwarding the Decrees of
the National Aflembly to the diilant provinces.
M. de Montmorin is Unown to be a friend to the
revolution ; but his silence for fix weeks respect
ing the demands of Spain, has appeared lingular t
He has his share of public odium—and the inflam
atory writers are daily endeavoring to rouse and
alarm the public mind refpe<fting these matters
in such manner as induces an expectation of a ge
neral change.
The King of the French lias lately been indis
posed—but he is so far recovered as to have loft
every lymptom of fever.
The Baron de Bender, the Austrian General,
having presented to the King of the French, a re
quell for liberty to inarch the Aultrian troops thro
a part of France, obtained the King's consent, a
gieeable to ancient ufuage eftabliihed between
the two Rations : This being communicated to
the National Aflembly, they decreed that conform
ably to the deeree of 28th of Feb. lafl, foreign troops
Jhall not be permitted to march through the French
territories, except they be authorised by a Decree of the
Legislature, fantlioued by the King ; therefore the
orders ijfued from the War Office, and sent to the
Cotnmanders in the name of the King, jhall be confi'
dered as null and of no force.
August 13
The press was generally what is called hot or
the river yesterday-evening. The oldest water
men don't know what to make of this business ;
they lay, " that a peaceable negociation looks
lik# a preparation for war."
The coffee house politicians are all thrown
out—for lec-theni talk as cooly as they will about
peace over their cups, the next morning they
find to their utter astonishment, that the press had
been hotter than ever.
Every poll confirms the account of the French
naval armaments, but whether by immediate or
der of the King and his Ministers, or the Nation
al Aflembly,. seems equally dubious, as the real
August 7,cause of such expeaflve undertakings, at a time
Vhen oeconomy is so very necelfary for the
French, ofall the powers of Europe.
" Although the Gazette bears a pacific appear
ance, the fitting out the ships here goes on with
great spirit and aiflivity ; nor is there the lealt
abatement of buitnefs in any department at this
port.
The decree of the 19th of June obliged the
French Nobility tottripthemfeivesof their titles,
and efface their arms, and to return to the rank
of citizsns. A Nobleman enveloped the arms 011
the pannels of his carriagein acloud, and wrote
underit, Itiuilt only pass over : The Coinmiilaries
®f the diftrk't ofUonne Nouvelle, went with the
National Guard to his house, when a painter,
•whom they had taken with them effaced the
whole, and in the place of the motto, v rote, —
Jt has pa[fid over.
» il 1
' JJ
Lait week a perron of Exeter drowned in a
pail of water several puppies, which were kept at
he bottom of the pail for an hour, by a mop be
ing placed upon them ; and they were then bu
ried 111 a<! Tig-hill. A child about two days af
terwards (lug them up; and they all appeared
alive, having been revived by the heat of the
dunghill. Mr. Tillot a French surgeon, records
in his writings, that a peil'ou who had laid un
der water fix hours, had been reltored to life by
similar means.
Spain —As a proof that the mod defpoticand
the inoft ignorant countries cannot ltop ilie pro
greflivc force of freedom, it is the custom to tic
paftjuinades, and other articles of information,
to the tails and necks of dogs, who are immedi
ately set a running, and thus carry satire into the
very Palace. What adds to the joke is, that these
dogs cannot be prosecuted.
In addition to this folly, which had never hap
pened, had the government been a sensible one
—the inquKition had the folly to name all the
jjrints, pamphlets, and other publications which
were forbidden. This of course served as an
advertisement, to make people ten times more
curious than they were before ; and that spirit,
and true uwierjlanding which the Press alone-»an
give, are lifing fact over the dreary ruins of def
potifin.
The following are the particulars of the attempt to
tijfajjinatc Count Florida Blanch, the Span
ish Minister.
The Count in his way to his official apart
ments in the Palace, about ten o'clock in the
niorninz. was atiackfd by a wietch, wlw> nv>dq a.
ltroke at him behind, with a dagger. 'The force
of this ftioke was fortunately parried by '.he
Count turning suddenly round. This moveniinr,
with the refinance the dagger encountered from
liis cloaths, contributed tofave him. The villain,
however, not fatisfied with one stroke, aimed a
J'econd at the Count, though surrounded with
centinels and his own servants ; but, before he
had effected his lait purpose, one of the Count's
servants fejzed the monster by the hair, and
brought him to the ground. The Minister's
wounds were immediately examined, and found
to be flight and without danger. He was after
wards let blood, and had some repose, and is now
pronounced to be out of danger. Theaffaflin be
ing laid flat, and having 101 l the arm with which
he committed the daring ait, drew out his other
hand fixnn his pocket, and gave hiuifelf two
blows, which are not mortal. The account gi
ven of the man is, that he had been formerly a
j'urgeon at Buenos Ayres from whence return
ing poor, he had formed many impracticable
schemes, which he had submitted to the Minister,
who had uniformly rejected them, as visionary
and absurd. These disappointments had affected
his intellects. His vengeance was not, it feenis,
levelled against the Count in particular, but
agaii.lt all the Ministers ; and the Count, hap
pening to come firft in his way, became the ob
ject of it. The least veltigeof conspiracy has not
been traced ; and, from the assassin's known clia
ra<ter before, he is pronounced a maniac, ft is
not certainly known whether he it '4 Frenchman
or a Spaniard. Some fay his name is Paul Perret,
others Paul Pt-ez.
Study furni/hes us with a thousand ways to
(Jifpel that uneasiness which makes us unhappy.
A mind that is employed easily forgets many
things which would make a stronger impreflwn
upon it, if it was idle. The grievances of Ae
body are also relieved by study ; for the appli
cation of the mind to certain objerts which please
it, hinder it from perceiving the necessities of the
body. Even old-age, after a life spent iu study,
does not ili fcover its infirmities by the
llble symptoms which, reduce us, as it were, to
childhood. It comes on without being perceived,
■we stoop under it insensibly ; but, though at last
we drop into the grave, we do not fall into it all
at once. Thus did Boerhaave, and
Peaufobre pass their old age, and thus the illuf
tt ions Fontenelle. The greatest men among the
ancients improved their undvrftanding to the last.
Sophocles computed tragedies till he was exceed
EXTRACT
ing old ; and it Is fa id that he was not less than
an hundred when he wrote his Oedipus. His
children, finding that the application he gave to
his plays made him negledt his family affairs,
commenced a fait of lunacy against him ; but
Sophocles made no other defence than the recit
ing the tragedy of Oedipu«, ,whith he had just
finiJhed, before proper judges of the drama ; and,
having then aflced them whether they thought
the play was the composition of a man that had
101 l his reason, he was acquitted of the charge.
BALTIMORE, Sept. 28.
A few days ago palled through this town, the
Honorable General Gates and Lady, on their
way to take pofleilion of their new and elegant
feat 011 the banks of rheEait River, in the vici
nity of the City of New-York, where, we doubt
not, they will experience " the wind's bright Sun-
Jh'tns, and the Soul* s rcpofe—The General, pre
vious to his leaving Virginia exhibited an exam
ple ot benevolence and generosity, which height
ens the luflre of his Character—highly diffin
guifhed as a brave Patriot foldier,and friend to the
rights of Mankind—He summoned his numerous
family of Haves about him, and, amid (I their tears
of affecftion and gratitude; gave them their free
dom—in a manner so judicious, as not only to
iecurc them the inestimable blefling of liberty,
but to prevent the ill consequences of a too pre
cipitate and indiscriminate emancipation.
BOSTON, Sept. 28
Yelterday failed from this port, tlic ship Co'
lurn'i)a > Capt. Robert Gray, 011 a circum-navirra
tory voyage to the North-VVefl coaifc of America.
—This is the second voyage the Columbia has
made to the coast—Too much piaife cannot be
given to the gentlemen, owners of the (hip, for
their exertions in extending the commerce of
America. The native ot Owhvhee has returned
to the place of his nativity
NEW-YOIIK, OCTOBER 6
Further accounts from England by the last arrivals inform :
1h 4 tlie Auftrians by a rap-d movement have eroded the Meufc ;
the patriots wcie furprircd in the night and fled, leaving their
cannon and equipage. The arms of Leopold are every where re
placed in the Pays dc Limbuurg. The army of the king of Sar
dinia, it is ex petted, will amount to 60000 men. 111 consequence
of the convention betwe nihe Auftrians -and Pruflians, the, inter
course between the two countries, which had been interdicted, is
rem w.-d
The deman' 1 ao he court cf France greatly embarraflT
es the la't r. France however is arming, and ir is said have twen
ty fail of ihe li»»* equipped, and a majoiity.of two 111 th»- miinflry
is i* fav«*r **f*du«jing to rhr.family <v»<pna&, The fowi re
volution is extending nfelt ia the fubordmate principalities of
Germany, A fleet of Barbary Corfrirs, cmfiiling of four gallics
and a large Xcbecque were lately defeated bv two Venetian gallies,
two funk, 6ue burnt and theothcrs drove off.
Accounis of the failing of the Spanifli fleet the 20th July, are
pubJifnrd in the Loudon papers : theEnglifti fay they aic out to
ixercifctheir men.
. apt.Giemaidi arrived at Bofton,funday week, in 39 days from
Gibraltar, and informs, that the Spaniaids have no idea of peace ;
they are ttill making every pofiiblc preparation for war ; the Spa
nish fleet was out on a cruize.
The profpeft of pcace between Sp*in and England appears,
according' to some more recent accounts, to be overcast ; but for
the faiisfadicii gf the lovers of tranquility it may be obfeived,
that wars arc generally begun in hjfie : Would mankind but give
thcmfelves time to deliberate, and faily mvcfligate facts, they
would ftldom coii.c blows; at the present day, Negociatipn,
among enlightened nations, generally fupercedes the sword :
Whatever clle may be the refull of the prcftnt armamciir*, there
is thegreateft reason to suppose that peace will continue between
Spain and England, as, notwithstanding the grumbling of John
Bull, there really seems to be no point of dispute—the Spaniards
claim art " exclusive right to the Fort of Nootka," already in
their pofTcffion; the English " claim a right to hold the 1 ftabinh
ment they may have lormed, or (hould be deftrous of forming in
future, at the Bay of Nootka."
A London paper of the 19th of Angnfl receiv
ed by the ihip Birmingham, from Bi iftol, fays,
that the Britiih fleet, confiding of thirty-one fail
of the line, under the command of Lord Howe,
had made thefignal for failing ; as the wind was
favorable, it was supposed they had cleared the
channel at the date of the paper.
The Captain of the above ship positively as
serts that the fleet had fail :d.
A great commotion it is said has bcerfexcited in Rome by the
French artifls in that city, who alTnmcd the national cockade ; or
ders were issued to force it from the n, a battle ensued and several
were killed. A young woman, wife to one of the Frenchmen
that fell, with dishevelled hiir and diftrafted looks ran through
the city, exclaiming murder ! aflaflirs ! to arms! to arms! This
operated like a charm, the people armec, and brought the Pope
trom Frefcati to the Capital, where they extorted from him a pro
mise to comply with all their demands.
The fortifications of Belgrade are to berafed to the ground, that
it may not in future, from its amazing strength as a frontier, be
the scene of bloodflied.
The Congress of the Bclgic dates have publiftied a circular let
ter, declarative of their determination to support their independ
ence, notwithstanding the King of Prussia has deferred their cause.
A treaty having been concluded between Austria and Prussia,
the King of Hungary will immediately be ele£ted Emperor, and
proceed to Frankfort for that purpose.
Articles of pacification have been proposed by the Empress to
the Porte, in which llie has lowered her tone and abated much of
her former demands. The King qf Prussia appears determined to
compcl Catharine to make peace, and for this purpose has de
manded (hiptof England and Holland,
The Duke of Oi hans and Viscount Mirabeau it is reported, are
both arretted, they are impeached before the national assembly for
the plot of fuipriiing the King and Queen at Versailles, and
bringing them with indirefi views to Paris.
The Englilh accounts of affair! on the continent of Europe, ef
pccially thofeof France, Wear rather a gloomy afpefl, but experi
ence has taught us that full faith and credence cannot be given to
them ; it will be well therefore to suspend making up a judg
ment.
619
Late accounts fr.om Fraflcc mention, that the court of Sardinia
has ordered troops to affemblc at Nice, with a train of artillery,
and there are not more than two hundred eflettive men at Aiti
bes, the key of Fiance on that fide.
A violent influenza is said to rage in Paris, occasioned by the
dampness of the atmofpherc at the time ot the grand contcdei a
tion. The King's difoider originated in this.
Two members of the national aifeinbly (MelTrs. Baruave and
Cazales) fought a duel on the nth of Augufi. I"hc latter was
wounded in the head but not dangerously.
In theyear 1780, aferiesof oblcrvations was wrote, calculated to
iipiew that the interest oi Great Britain was inseparably connected
with a fair and equal commercial alliance with the United Spates.
Thefc papers were publtfhcd \n ii Pa , kcr's General Advert jc r f dn<L
Morning Intelligence) One ot the principal arguments dituccd in
f ippo: 1 of the general fentimcnt, was, That :n cafe ot a future wai,
without« commercial connection with America, Great Britain
wou)cl find it extremely difficult, if not wholly impracticable,
to man her navy : " The independence of the United States, it
was said, making a difierencc againfl Great Britain in her naval
strength, ot upwards ot eighty thousand teamen.'' Recent occur
rences fully juiiify this opinion. Have tlicy not been obliged to
sweep their prisons ? And press trom their own protections ?—
Have they not stripped American veflels of American seamen ?—>
Andaturthe tumor of a peace had luled into security their own
seamen, have not the myrmidons of the fleet been iuddenly let
loofc again,and the prels become as hot as ever ? And afterall their
conimi /fiuned fleet of 52 fail of the line, turns out to be but 31 only;
and tntfe not at sea one month alter the Spanilh fleet 01 32 fail
had taken its departure from Cadiz.
The average price of Wheat per bushel, the beginning of Au
gnft, in London, and near it, was 6f9- Her J.
In an advertifemrnt which appeated in one of the London
prints, for the sale of some articles at the custom-house of Dover,
on the 19th of May last, appear two rnoft .extraordinary pioduc
tions of French ingenuity in the looking-glals manufacture, viz.
two plates, each 684 one fourth inches, by 384 one half inches,
or 19 yards long by ten and two third yards broad, a fizc for An
gle enure plates truly prodigious.
It is reported that great preparations are making in Kentucky
for oflfenfive operations against the Indians.
A gentleman from the Weltern country informs,that the account
of Major Douchty's b. ing about to ciedl a foit or forts at thtf
mouth of the Tenafieeon the Ohio, is without foundation.
A spring has lately been difcovci. d on the lake, in thejown of
Ondport,State of Vermont; the watci of which on being analyzed
produced large quantities of bitter purging ("alts, commonly de
nominated Epsom Salts.
Many improvements have recently taken plaee in the city of
Albany, and its vicinity—new streets laid out—the old ones new
paved—and the roads repaired—the inhabitants have all been sup
plied with leather buckets : In addition to these a laudable spirit
ot enterprise has difcovcred itfelf in the mercantile line; and by
the iucccis of a late adventure, the citizen* are encouraged to at
tempt carrying on their foreign trade in a more dirctfc way than
formerly.
Tbc enemies of the federal government look with concern on
the rc-elettion oi so many of the old reprcfentatives. This cir
cumstance evinces not only that the people are well fatisfivd with
the proceedings of the past feifion* ot Congrcls, but that their at
tachment to the federal government itfelf encrcafes. Why indeed
fliould it not ? A government which is the admiration of the
whole world ; which has given a new face to our affairs ; has ef
fected the ielurrc6tion of our national credit ; reftoied our finari
-1 ces to system, and which has already raised the character of this
country into high eftimatron, fliould be expetted to acquire more
than the bare approbation of the happy inhabitants who partici
o» in b-rrvgQ influrnce. It is with p!c*furc therefor' wj
' learn, that a great proportion of the gentlemen who repiefented
the United States in the firft congress under the new constitution,
will ast in a flmiJar capacity in the second. Their tried abilities
aflord a good prefagc that the measures they adopt will contribute
to the honor and profperityof their country.
From the Journal of the Keeper of the goal in Philadelphia, it
appears that during a period of ten years, viz. from 1780 to 1790*
4061 persons have been confined therein for debt.
Ihe reflections that croud on the philanthropic mind, in con
templating this account, are painful to the highest degree : Vice,
milery and distress, in every form, are the wretched etfeas of this
remnant of feudal and aristocratic tyranny. It is astonishing that
amidlt the numerous improvements which are daily taking°place
in legifljtion, the abolition of this barbarous custom has not been
effedted : 41 to prevent the r 'ppofed neceflity of throwing the body
of a fellow citizen into goal for debt, let a law be parsed which
shall place the risk of credit wholly upon the lender of money,
or the feller goods, unless real security be given for the debt,
in which cafe nothing shall be demanded, or taken, but the said
security : By means of such a law much extravagance would be
prevented ; labor would be encreqfcd ; honor and character would
be cultivated, and become estimable, for these would be the only
means of obtaining credit without real security: It is certainly
worth while to try the experiment."
How common is the word honor ! How little understood ! How
often prostituted ! It occurs no where more frequently than at "a
gaming table ; where, at the fame time, everv thought, and every
exertion is hostile to its sacred dictates : For what can be more
dishonorable than to pollefs the property of another without a
compensation. It may be fafely afTeited that it requires great
practice to steel the bosom against that conscious injustice, of
which every lucky noviciate in the art of gaming is fufceotible ;
habit alone can blunt and obliterate the sense of honor which is
congenial to our natures ; and this principle is totallyeradicated
in time from the m nd of a gamhler.
Yesterday was the annual review and inspec
tion of the Light Horse, Artillery and Infantry
ot the militia of the city and county of New-York,
when about 2000 men under arms •
the whole under the command of Gen. Malcov!
The last purchase of Public Securities made
by the Treasurer of the United States, was on
Monday last—Final Settlements at 12/6 and In
dents at 7/2.
Married at Philadelphia, Mr. James Smith, mer
chant, of this city, to Miss Hannah Caldwell,
daughter ot the, late Rev. James Caldwell, of
Elizabeth town New jerfey.t
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Ship Ann and Susan, Cheevers, 811 boa, 40 days
Brig Ann, Bell, Madeiia
Pearl, Folgei, Cape-Francois
Jeanie, Martin, Greenock, 44
Providence, Wheeler, New-Providence, u
Ship Birmingham, Gunnel), Bristol, 36
Schooocr Dolphin, Brooks, Philadelphia, c
Sloop New-York Packet, Bird, do 2.
TRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Final Sittlimewti 12/ i a 13/4.
Indents 7/1. a 7/2.
Stati SICIIJUTIIJ 8/TTREASURY DEPARTMENT,]
New-York, Sept. 28, 1790. J
THE following regulations, which have been adopted towards
carrying into execution the aCt, making provi(ion for the
debt ot the United States, are announced for the information ot
the public creditors.
• WHEN a transfer is to be made from one person to another, the
Certificate or certificates of the debt to be transferred, mull be pio
riu cd at the proper office, in order that the fame may be can
celled, and a new one, or new ones issue, as the cafe (hall require.
When a transfer is desired from one office to appli
cation mud in the firft instance be made at the office where the
<JVedit exists, whereupon the certificate or certificates of the debt
to be transferred will be cancelled, afict a special one granted, as a
voucher to the Secretary of the Treasury ; upon the production
and delivery ot which to him, a warrant will Hlue to the office,
to which thf debt is to be transferred, where the business will be
completed. The form (A) at foot heteof, has been adopted for
letters of attorney, to make transfers, whlcn, and the directions
for completing it, it is expcClcd will be carefully observed.
In every cafc of a transfer of the fubferibed or funded debt, the
new certificate will bear inured, only from the fir ft day ot the
quarter, in which the transfer is made. The unpaid interest which
may have accrued prior to that quarter, will be paid only to the
person, who was ftockholdcr at the time it accrued, or to his spe
cial aflignee.
Fourteen days before the expiratiop of cach quarter, the books
of cac!i office will heclofcd so that no transfers w'fl be made,
nor, except at the Treasury, will any fubferipttons be received,
or o!d certificate? exchanged for new ones, on the application ot
non-fubferibers, during that period. Those intending to become
fubferibers to the proposed Loan, who do not fubferibe, prior to
the commencement of any such period—or those intending not to
fubfefibe, who do not their old certificates to be exchang
ed, or if holdeis of certificates of the Register ot the Treasury,
who do not notify to theTreafurv their intention not to fubferibe,
prior to such commencement of such period, will not receive the
i ntereft, which may have accrued antecedently, 'till the evd of
the quarter in which their fubferiptions arc made, or in which their
certificates areexchang d,or in which they ftiall lo notify their in
tention not to fubferibe. This, the proper distribution of the
funds, and the preservation of order render iod if pen Cable.
On the fubferibed or funded debt, interest as it becomes due,
will be paid without production of the certificates ilfued for the
fame. On the unfubfcribed debt, if any there (hall be, the pro
duction of the certificates will be nectffary, in order to the receipt
of the interest, and an indorsement of the payment of it upon the
certificates. This however, in consideration of the rifle and incon
venicnce of tranfiniflion, will not be required of those who hold
certificates of tlic Register of the Treasury, and reside out of the
United States. The form (B) at toot he eof, ot a letter of attor
ney for receiving interest, and the directions therewith, it is ex
pected will be carefully pursued.
(A)
FORM of a POWER of ATTORNEY, to tranf-
KNOW ALL MEN by thcfe presents : That
true and lawful Attorney, for
fell, iftign and transfer
the
name in the Books of
Aanding in
with power also an Attorney or Attornies under for thai
putpofe.t ) make and fubftitwe ; and to do all lawful u£ts requi
site for effecting thepicmifes ; hereby ratifying and confirming al
that said Attorney, or Subflitute or Substitutes fnali
do therein by virtue hereof.
IN WITNESS whereof
Hand and.Sea! , the
Year of our LORD, One Thousand
Sealed and delivered £
in the presence of )
BE IT KNOWN, that on the
One Tlioufaud Hundred
■within named;
and acknowledged the above Letter of Attorney to be
Act an 4 Deed. In testimony whcieot I luve hereunto set my
Hand and
the Day and Year last aforefaid.
came
IF the power is to extend to the whole of the flock, the word
,l all'* is to be inserted after the word "tranter." If only to
part, the particular sum is to be inserted, with the addition of the
words 41 being part of."
If the power is to extend only to a ccrtain species of (lock, it
may be expressed in the different cases by infeiting in the blank
between the words 44 the" and 4i Stock" the words 44 funded
Six per Cent." (which will designate the Stock bearing a present
lutereft) or the woids, 44 funded Three per Cent." (which will
designate the Three per Cent, flock,) or the word 4 ' Deferred"
(which will designate the Stock bearing Interefl at the end often
Years) or the word 44 unfunded" (which will designate the un
fubferibed part of the debt.)
If no power of substitution is desired to be given, the whole
that relates to it, to be omitted ; the place of abode, and quality
of each witness, to be written against his name.
Ihe acknowledgment may be taken before any Judge of a
Court of the United States, or of a Superior Courtof Law or Equi
ty in any State, or of a County Court, or before the Mayor or other
Chief Magillratc of any place ; or before a Notary Public.
In the acknowledgment, if the Seal of a Court, or Corporation,
is to be affixed, the words 44 caused to be" may piecedethc word
44 affixed", the blank immcd ately following to be hlled with a
designation of the Seal; as, that it is the Seal of a ccrtain Court,
naming it; or the Seal of a certain Coi poration, naming it ;or the
Seal of Office of the party before whom the acknowledgment is
taken, if he has one ; or it he has none, with the words 44 rny Seal."
If there be no public or official Seal to the acknowledgment,
proof of the execution of the Power mull be made by Oath or
Affirmation of one of the Witneflcs, to be taken before some per
lon duly authorised at the place where the transfer is to be made.
(B) '
FORM of a POWER of ATTORNEY, to receive
' Interest.
KNOW ALL MEN by thcfe presents : That
do make, constitute and appoint
true and lawful Attorney, for
to rcceive the interest
the Stock, (landing in
name
in the Books of
•wirh power also an Attorney or Attornies, under for that
purpose, to make and substitute ; and to do all lawful Acts requi
fire for effecting th Premises ; hereby ratifying and confirming
all that laid Attorney, or Subftitutc or Substi
tutes shall do therein by virtue hereof.
IN WITNESS whereof
Hand and Seal , the
of our Lord, One Thousand
Scaled and delivered >
in the prefencc of £
fer Stock.
do make, conftitutc and appoint
and in
have hereunto set
Day of
t • .
hundred
Day of
before me,
D I RICTIOKS,
have hereunto fct
in the Year
Day of
Hundred
BE IT KNOWN, that on the Day of
One Thousand Hundred before me
came
ledged the above Letter of Attorney to be A£t and Deed.
IN Testimony whereof I have hereunto fct my Hand and
the Day and Year lafl aforeiaid
IF the Power is to be general, the words 14 now due, or which
shall hereafter grow due upon" are to be inserted after the word
" interest." If not general, the time for, or to which the intercft
is tobe received, to be specially exprefled after the word " interest."
If no Power ot Subilituti6n is desired to be given, the whole
that relates to it, to be omitted. The place of abode, and quality
of each Witness, to be written against lus name.
The acknowledgment may be taken before any Judge of a
Court of the United States, or of a Superior Court of Law or Equi
ty in any State, or of a County Court, or before the Mayor, or
other Chief Magistrate of any place, or before a &otarv Public*
In the Acknowledgment, if the Seal of a Court or Corporation
is to be affixed, the words " caused to be" may precede the word
" affixed." The blank immediately following to be filled with
a designation of the Seal ; as that it is the Seal of a certain Court,
naming it; or the Seal of a certain Corporation, naming it : or
the Seal of Office of the Party before whom the Acknowledgment
is taken, if he has one ; or it he has none, with the words " my
Seal."
If there be no public or official Seal to the Acknowledgment,
proof of the execution of the Power, must be made by or
Affirmation of one of the Witneffcs, to be taken before some Pcrfow
duly authoufed, at the Place where the transfer is to be made.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sept. 28, 1790.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofaW will be received at the
Oifice ol the Secretary of theTrcafury, until the 31ft day
ol December next incluftve, for the building of a LIGHT HOUSE,
neatly of the dimentions proposed by the late Commiffioneu of
Virginia and Maryland, upon the lot of land oil Cape Henry, in
the County ot Princefj Ann, and State of Virginia, lately ceded for
that purpolc to the United States. It is desired, that the proposals
may leave the elf&ion, whether the building above the foundation
(hall be of brick or Hone, and as Ihe cod and charges of thol'a ma
terials vary, it ts expeflcd, that a correfpondiuj difference will be
made in the terms offered.
. The foundation of the Light-House is to be of (lone, and funk
to the depth of thirteen feet below the water table, over tl>e lop of
which the pavement is to be laid. The diameter thereof is to be
twenty seven feet fix inches, with a vacancy of about ume feet in
the centre.
The diameter ofthe base isto be twenty fix feet, at which p'acr
the ihicknefs of the walls is to be fix fee . The height from the
bottom of the water table to the top of the Hone oik is to he
frventy two feet,where thediameter is to he fix feet fix inches, and
the Ulicknefs 0. the walls thiee fe; t. The form is to be an o&agnn,
havin ; three windows in the call, and four in the w.-ft. If it he
built of buck, it it to oe faced with theglaffy kind, if of lime, it
is to he faced with hew;, or hammcr-dreffrd (lone.
On the top of tile ftme work is to be a floor of jiifts, bedded
therein, planked over and covered with copper, extending about
two feet eight inches beyond the wall, thereby forming an eve,
which is to be linifhcd with a cornice, the whole having a descent
from tile centre fufficien: to throw off the water.
name to
The lanthoi n is to be Supported by eight posts of wrought Iron
. of tiiree inches fquarc and twenty feet in length, ten feet of which
are to be wrought into the stone wall on the inner part at each
corner. The diameter of it is to he ten feet, leaving a platform on
the olifide thereof of about fix feet in width. All the work above
this is to be of iron and copper. The lanthorn is to be ten feet
high, having a femieircular roof of five feet more, with iron raft
ers covered with copper. The whole fpaec between the posts sup
porting the lanthorn, is to be occupied by the falhes, which are
to be made of iron, e;n h fafti is to have twenty-eight panes of
glass, twelve by fourteen inches. One of tbe fa(hcs on the south
weft fide is to be hung with hinges for a door to go out upon the
platform, from the outer part of which to the roof of the lanthorn
is to be a frame of iron covered with a net work of strong brass
wire, to prcferve the glass from injuries by hail-and flights of
birds in the ni^ht.
The rafters of the lanthorn are to be well fart»ned to an iron
hoop, over which is a copper funnel, through which the smoke
may pass into a large copper ventilator in the form of a man's
head, capable of containing one hundred gallons. This head is to
be so placed as to be turned by a large vane on the fpirc above it,
that the hole for venting the smoke may always be to the leeward.
Eightdormant ventilators of fix inches diameter are to be fixed
in the roof of the lanthorn.
Stock
in the
A clofc (love is to be provided and fixed in the tanthorn, wliich
is lo he furnifhed with eight lamps, each capable of containing fix
quarts, hung 111 two tiers over each other tMnfverfely. There are
to be fix flights of stairs to ascend to the lantborn, the entrance to
which is to be by a door covered with copper. The building is
to be furnifhed with two conductors, to secure it from the efle£h
of lightning.
A frame house is to be built for the keeper, twenty feet square,
two stories high, with a frame kitchen ; the whole to be fro!feed
with lath and plaifter.
A vault for the storage and fafe keeping of the oil is to be built
of stone at a convenient diflance, twelve feet wide, and twenty in
length. It is to be arched, and covered with earth m sand, over
which a shed is to be built, and it is to be furniftied with eight
llrong cedar cisterns with covers, each capable of containing two
hundred gallons of oil. The entrance isto be secured by a Itronir
door. 1 b
Good fecuritv for thefaithf.il performance of the contract will
be expetted. Payments on a count will be made at proper Ita
ges of the work, and the balance will be paid on its completion :
or, if a suitable difference (hould be made in the terms, caQi will
be advanced for the purchase W materials and proviGons.
C 3* The Printers in the fever at States are reque/led to insert this.
WAR DEPARTMENT, Sept. 9, 1790.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids of
the United Stales, that the urns to which the* are annually en.
titled, and which will become due on the fourth day of March
ensuing, twill be p*id on the said day, by the Commissioners of
the Loans within the dates refpeftivelv, under such regulations
as the President of the United Siatcs may direst
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of War.
(The Printers in the reftcßhe States are remefled to fiuili/i the
above in their new/papers, for thefpace of two Months.,,
and in
ler of the Honorable Richard Morris, f.fq. Chief luflice of the
State of New-York. J
name
XTOTICE is hereby given to Lewis M'Donald, of Connecticut,
. u J r i° r ' that upon d PP' lca ti°n and due proof made
to the laid chief iuftice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Donald
pursuant to an ast of the Legislature of the said State, entitled,'
An ast for relief against absconding and absent debtors," pas
-11l i r 1 j f Pnl \V 86; he ' ,he faidchi 'f >uftice, has direfled
i' S r , n3ldstft:ue ' w ithin this State, to be seiz
ed, and that unless he shall discharge his debts within twelve
months after the publication o! this notice, the fame will be fold
for the payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d Mav, 1 iqo.
Vew-Urk, May j, ,790. J (.w iy
620
within named, and acknow-
DIRECTIONS.
TstASL'RY DEfARTIIEXf, $ t pt, Jp.
TT is hefe'iy made known, that the following arrangement ha,
J. been adopted towards carrying into execution the Ast," mat
ing ptovifion for the debt of the United States vir
Loan-Office Certificates, andthofe issued by the Common,
ers for the adjuitment of accounts in the fcvcral States will b ■
ceivable only at the Treasury and by the refpeftivc Co'mmdGonerl
of Loans within the States in which they were refp.ft velv iir„e/
The Certificates lfTued by the Register of theTrealury by the
Master General and Cotnmiflion r of Army Accounts hy'thr
Commiflioners for the adj iftment of the Account- ! •heOuar 1
Mailer's, Commiirary's, Hospital, Cloath-ng, ?nd Marine Druan
partments, Indents of Intercft, and Bills of Oid Em.(lion will
be receivable indiscriminately at the Treasury and bv the'com
miflioners of afl the States. The fituationof ihe Ch. cks lias dicta
ted this arrangement for the greater fecurityol the public agamtt
impositions by forged or counterfeit paper, and the details which
have been adopted from the fame consideration for the execution
ot the buGnefs are filch, that it will give facility and dispatch if'
applications from the Holders of Certificates ol the Reeifter of
the Treasury and of the Payinafler General, and Commiflioner of
Army Accounts, and of the Commiflioner: of the five Dee art.
ments above mentioned, are made in the firff inflance at the Trea
sury ; and if applications from the Holders of f.oan Office Certi
ficate!, and Certificates ifTucd by the Commiflio:iers for the adjull"
ment ot Accounts in the refpeftive States, arc inadc in like manl
ner to the Commiflioners of Loans within theStaies in which-thev
were ilTued. Transfers can afterwords be made to any Office tliac
the Proprietors of these Certificates may desire.
The printers of the fevenU Stales 'are requijlei I tnfert this
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERr.
THE Managers afthe STATK LOTTERY, p rc frnt tl lc P,,!•!?-
wir.hthe First C'afs of the M.ijlachufetis j'm'.atn.at State J.nil
lery, which will commence drawiiigin the R pref. ntHires'Clitm'-f
in Boilon, on the Seventeenth of *\Urc/i next, or sooner. if il,»
Tickcts ihall lie disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A rRiZE.
2J,000 Tickets, at Fiv: Dollars each, nrc
1 ?5,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Pi izes, (uhjcfl to a
deduction of twelve and an hatj ]>er cent, for the use of the Com
i monweafth.
Prias. Dollar.,. Dollar^
1 of 10000 is 10000
2 3000 are 6000
3 2000 f»GOQ
6 1000 6cco
10 S co f,-0-.
3° 200 6000
80 109 fccOO
9° 5° ifp<3
too 40 • 4 ; o
3" <3 (rA
101 BO 3^,0
to gecy
7585 8 6->6B:>
8388 Pr'zes. j2<oc>?
16612 Blank.*.
25000.
TICKETS may l»e had of the several Manager.*, who will
pay the Prizes ov iem.ini—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Hook-Store, Franklin's-llead,
Court-Street, and at othrr place* as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.l
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER, j. Managers.
CEORGE R. MINOT, <
JOHN KNEEL AN I), j
RoJlorr, full r>B, R-cto.
NEW-YORK CITY LOTTERY.
SCHEME.
1 PRIZE of £. 3000 £. 3000
1 2000 200»
2 1000 2000
4 500 2000
6 300 1800
12 200 *40©
40 100 400®
80 50 .400©
200 20 .4000
330 10 3300
7000 2 10s. 175 00
153.4 Mwh. ( "3 000 Tickets, at 40s. each £. 4600.
Subject to a dedu6lion of 15 per Cent.
THIS LOTTERY is for the purpose of raising the residue of
the fiim, granted by an Afct of the Legislature of the State of New-
York, pal Ted Bth of February, 1790, to defray the expencos in
curred by the Corporation for repairing and enlarging the CITY-
HALL,
The drawing will commence on the Firjl Monday in January
next, or sooner if filled, of which timely notice will be given.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published at the end oi :
the drawing ; and the prizes will be paid by the Managers.
Tickets are to be fold by the Subscribers, who are appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stouten burgh,
Peter T. Curtenius,
Nctc-York, September i, 1790.
TO BE LET,
On very low terms—and entered upon immediately, until the jirfl of
May next.
HTH AT elegant new TWO STORY BRICK HOUSE, in the
X Bowery-Lane, formerly occupied by Robert Gilbert
Livingston, deceased ; it has seven Fire Places with a good
Cellar under the whole House—-a convenient out-Houfe in thp
rear, with a Coach-House, and Stables ; For further particulars en-
quire of
(2 w. t. f.)
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Proposals for printing this paper stipulated, that it fhoulC
"he pubhfhei at the feat of the federal government —Pursuant to
this engagement, " The Gazette of the United States"
will, from the beginning of November next, be published at
PHI LjtDELPHIA
The Subscribers, who may please to continue their patronage of
the Publication, will be Tup plied from Philadelphia as soon as poi*
fible after it is out of the press, on the present terms.
To be let, from Ift November, THE HOUSE'
in which the Editor now lives :—A good fituntioti /<.r
a Boarding-House —-being formerly occupied in that
bufmefs.
Abraham Herring,
John Pintard.
MANGLE MINTHORN
Corporation Dock.